****Dialogues from script :White_Squall.txt****

minister		I didn't know Richard Sheldrake personally, but his many friends who knew and worked with him, wanted to make sure that he was returned home, here, to be remembered with his beloved wife...
will		You gonna jump?  Or are you just having a last look?
chuck		I was just thinking that I never had a new pair of shoes till I was twelve.
will		It's no my fault I was born first. Besides, nobody ever sent me on an eight month vacation, so ease up on the sad sack stuff.
chuck		It's not a vacation, it's private school.
will		I thought this was your dream come true.
chuck		That's not why he's sending me.
will		Why then.
chuck		Because it looks good.
chuck		I'm just not like you.  Ya know? I'm never going to go to Yale.  I'm never going to be "William".
will		Nobody says you have to be like me.
chuck		He does.
will		You don't give him enough credit Chas.
will		We better go.
charles		 You plan on making this plane or not?
will		Don't take any wooden nickels Kemosabe.
chuck		I won't.
will		And lighten up will ya.
charles		Now just take it easy.  We're not going to a fire.
middy		Honey, did you know that the Albatross was captured by the Germans during World War II?
chuck		No, I didn't.
middy		It says she was originally Schooner rigged, but Captain Sheldrake turned her into a brigantine.  I think square rigs look so much more romantic.
chuck		Me too.
charles		Appearances aren't everything.  Keep your mind on the road.
charles		What are you doing?
chuck		I don't feel like driving.  Okay?
middy		Do you have your ticket?
chuck		Yes.
middy		Passport?
chuck		Look, I just better go.
chuck		Goodbye Mom.  I'll be okay.
middy		I know you will.
charles		Make us proud.
chuck		Yes sir.
rick		Albatross?
chuck		Yeah.
rick		Rick March.  Who the hell are you?
chuck		Gieg, Chuck.
rick		Look, meet us out front when you're through.  If they try to take anything away from you like Johnny Quest up there, just make a list and we'll have 'em send it down to the boat.
chuck		Whatever.
rick		Hey, hey!!  That's my stuff!!
tod		Well Ricky boy, spear gun or no, it's sweet to be back in the world of rum and honey.
rick		I gotta admit I never thought you'd be back after the great "Bowsprit Affair".
tod		Me and Skipper had a meeting of the minds.
charlie		How's that?
tod		I begged.
chuck		 What the "Bowsprit Affair"?
rick		Well, Romeo here was on harbor watch and managed to sweet talk one of the local girls to have a go in the bowsprit.
tod		Not just any 'local' girl.
rick		The 'local' mayor's 'local' daughter.
charlie		Thing is, the net in the basket isn't very comfortable, so Tod-o wraps them up in the jib.  After the deed was done...
rick		He says they did the deed...
tod		Trust me, we did the deed.
charlie		After the "alleged" deed was done, they fell asleep.  Big Daddy Lawford comes on deck at four bells and hears Casanova sawing logs.
tod		Believe me, I needed the rest...
charlie		He gets the whole crew on deck, gets us on the halyard, and orders the old "heave ho...".
rick		Up goes the jib and out roll Tod-o and the mayor's daughter, naked as pilot whales...
charlie		 I don't know who was more surprised, you or Big Daddy.
tod		To tell you the truth, I think it was her father.
rick		Well gentlemen, there she is.
charlie		Home sweet hell on the water.
chuck		What happened to it?
bill		She cleans up.  We'll have her ship shape before we shove off.
lawford		"That this same child of honor and renown, This gallant Hotspur, this all praised knight, And your unthought-of Harry chance to meet. For every honor sitting on his helm, Would they were multitudes, and on my head.  My shames redoubled!  For the time will come...
lawford		... That I shall make this northern youth exchange, his glorious deeds for my indignities."
tod		Would you be addressing me, sir?
lawford		I would.
rick		What's that supposed to mean?
lawford		 Henry the IV part I Act I Scene ii. I suggest you read it.
charlie		It means Shakespeare.  B-o-r-i-n-g.
bill		It means if he catches anybody basket-napping on watch this passage, he's gonna use their lizard for 'cuda' bait.
rick		 Well that's a hell of a how-do-you- do.
bill		Drop your gear, go below and pick yourself some bunks.
rick		Listen up.  This is Chuck Gieg.
robin		I'm Robin.
robin		 That's my brother.  He's dead.
john		I'll take this one.
terry		You probably didn't notice, but this bunk has been taken.
john		Anybody gotta problem with that?
rick		 Absolutely not.
bill		Alright, listen up.  This is Dr. Alice Sheldrake.
alice		I'm ship's surgeon.  I'm in charge of aches, pains, biology, math and science.
bill		George Pascal here is ship's cook.
george		If you want to keep all your fingers, stay the hell out of my galley unless you're invited.
bill		Some of you already know Mr. Lawford.
lawford		I have been charged with the dubious task of insuring your literary education.
lawford		Bill Butler is your first mate.  But don't let his size fool you.
mike		So when the hell do we get to meet El Capitan?
terry		 Maybe he's getting his wooden leg waxed.
lawford		 You'll meet him.  Soon enough.
terry		What question?
robin		 What the hell is going on?
chuck		Maybe it's an air raid.
bill		Roll out sailors!  All hands on deck!  Sixty seconds.  Sixty seconds.
bill		You gotta problem Goodall?
john		You blow that thing again I'll shove it so far up your ass, you're gonna need dental floss to get it out.
bill		Just get on deck.
bill		Line up!  Single file.  Single file.
bill		Everybody swims.
lawford		Don't think people, just go!  Go, Go, Go, Go, Go!!!  Swim you win, stay you pay!!
bill		Now what's the problem, Goodall? Everybody swims.
john		I don't.
lawford		You will if you wanna eat.  Right George?
john		 You gonna swim for your breakfast?
lawford		"Down, down beneath the deep, That oft in triumph bore him, He sleeps a sound and peaceful sleep, With the salt waves dashing over him." -- Lord Byron gentlemen.
bill		Everybody swims.  Now, I've been in twice.  So I guess I'll be eating your breakfast too.
mike		I got five bucks says he doesn't.
chris		I got five that says he doesn't live.
tod		I'll take a dollar of that.
robin		This is crazy!
chuck		Jesus.
robin		I can't watch this.
bill		Skipper on deck!
skipper		You know what's out there?  Wind and wave and rain.  Endless glassy pools that'll hold a sailing ship for weeks and then spit her out into the eye of the kind of hurricane.  A blow that could knock the bridge off a battleship.  Reefs and rocks and sandbars that'll tear the belly from her and enough fog and night to hide it all.
skipper		So look out there... and explain to me why any man in possession of any sense at all, would take on the sea with sail?
skipper		Because there's something else out there.  It beckons in the wind and sings in the shrouds.  Voices. Whispering...
skipper		They're voices of men.  Calling.  Men you don't even know.  Men you can't even imagine.  It's a seed, a wish, that part of you and I that aches to be alive, that was banished by everything we've ever been taught or told.  It's a part of us that can only be found on mountain tops and deserts, in the deepest caverns, smoking battle fields and... across oceans.
skipper		Out there, is where it all waits.
skipper		 "Where we go one, we go all."
terry		This -- is gonna be a long eight months.
tod		Chow down boys.  The milk and eggs are the first things to go once we put out.
rick		You know we gotta dumbwaiter for that.
rick		Not that one.  Tod-o here.
tod		Har, har, har...
terry		I'm done.  I'm finished...
rick		Hungry, Goodall?
john		What's your problem?
robin		Why'd you jump?
john		Because I felt like it.  What do you care?
robin		 I couldn't do it.
john		Well, as soon as you grow some balls, let me know.
robin		Screw you!
charlie		He's right.  It was a stupid stunt.
john		Excuse me?
charlie		You heard me.
john		Don't ever call me stupid.
robin		Come on, he didn't mean anything.
john		Let me tell you girls something.  I do what I wanna do.  When I wanna do it.  And I don't give a shit what old Ahab up there thinks either. Any questions?
bill		Okay, here's the duty.  Gieg, Weathers, Lapchick, Schucart: scrape and paint.  Corry and Stricklin have the brass.  Robinson, you're the Galley slave.  March you're on chain gang with Barnes. Johnston, solo on bilge detail.
tod		Butler, what'd I ever do to you?
bill		You came back, Tod.  You came back.
announcer		"President Eisenhower today acknowledged that a secret American spy plane was in fact shot down over the Soviet Union.  The pilot has been confirmed as Francis Gary Powers..."
terry		Why couldn't it have been a wooden boat?
mike		Steel boats don't leak.
robin		Hey, can I have one?
robin		Thanks daddy-o.
terry		Well, don't brush too hard.  Looks to me like the only thing holding this bucket together is the rust.
skipper		Good afternoon.
francis		Albatross?  Doesn't inspire a lot of confidence.
skipper		Oh, on the contrary, the Albatross is considered a very good omen.  It is said they embody the spirits of sailors passed on.  It's very bad luck if you kill one.  And dolphins too.
francis		I'm Francis Boutillier.  This is my son, Philip.
skipper		I know.
skipper		You're a day late.  We keep a schedule aboard ship.  Lives depend on it.  Hello, Philip.
phil		Sir.
francis		Your cable said you wouldn't be putting out until mid-October.
skipper		As you can see, there's a lot to do.
francis		Indentured servitude is not what my son had in mind.
skipper		This is a working ship.  Promptness is not a luxury, it's a necessity, as is the work to maintain her.  Had we been ready, I can assure you we would have sailed.
francis		And I would have expected compensation for my time and expense coming all the way down here.
skipper		Happily, it all worked out... This time.  Bill, take Philip below and help him find a bunk.
francis		I'll be frank with you.  This was his mother's idea.  A romp through the Caribbean on a sailboat sounds more like a vacation than an education if you ask me.
skipper		It will be more than that, I can promise you.
francis		 Take good care of my son.
skipper		We'll do our best.  You're welcome to say goodbye.
francis		He's a big boy.
lawford		Well, that was neighborly.
skipper		He didn't get to be Under Secretary of the Air Force by being neighborly.
skipper		Everyone aboard young Bill?
bill		Yes, Sir.
skipper		Good.  Let's go sailing.
skipper		Come over here and take the wheel.
skipper		Hold her steady into the wind. Southwest by west.
chuck		Yes sir.
skipper		 Raise the mainsail.
bill		 Raise the main!
together		Raise the main!!
skipper		Take a turn under the pin and lead it out to the others.  You guys in the rear take up the slack.  Heave together now...
bill		 "When the sun came up there was whisky in the cup..."
boys		"When the sun came up there was whisky in the cup..."
lawford		Come on the rest of you, sing!  Belt it out like men!!
bill		 "Not one of us was a sober..."
skipper		What's wrong Mr. Lawford.
lawford		It seems we're short on singers.
skipper		Everyone sings aboard a wind jammer gentlemen.  It lets everyone know you're in sync.  It shows unity, that all thoughts are one.  A crew that sings together stays together. Besides, I like it.  So, pipe up and be sailors.
john		 Everybody swims, everybody sings... What's next?  Tap dancing?
lawford		Tie it off!!
skipper		 Outer.
bill		Outer Jib!
charlie		 Outta what?
skipper		 We'll bear off to port and run down wind.
bill		Mr. Lawford, stand by to ease the mainsheet.  Rick, get on the jib sheet.  George, John, Philip, Tim and Dick go aloft to unstop the forecourse.  George will show you what to do.  Tod, show your men the forward pinrail and stand ready on the buntlines and clewlines. Forecourse first... work upward.
bill		Unstop the squares!
yardarm crew		Unstop the squares!!
skipper		 Fall off to port.  Ease her around to a heading of northeast.  Sing out when you're there.
chuck		 Ah... Northeast... sir.
skipper		 Speak up boy!
chuck		Northeast sir!
skipper		Unfurl the squares!
bill		Raise the inner jib!  Raise the forestaysail!
skipper		Watch the tell-tales Chuck.  If we jibe now we'll have a lot of people in the water.
chuck		Yes, sir.
skipper		All stop on the engine.
bill		All stop on the engine!
skipper		Behold gentlemen.  The power of the wind!
skipper		Did we lose anybody?
alice		Not yet.
skipper		Chart us a course for the windward side.
alice		That low passed through last night. May be a little bumpy out there.
skipper		It's time these boys saw some real blue water.
skipper		Well... now that I have your undivided attention... I'd like to take this opportunity to make a few points...
terry		 This guy is certifiable...
phil		Suicidal...
skipper		The first thing is I don't like people talking when I'm talking so the two of you, shut up.
skipper		Second, the next one of you who doesn't jump like a bunny when Mr. Butler gives an order is gonna spend the rest of this trip scrubbing bilges.  He's a better sailor today than any ten of you will be when this is all over.
skipper		And if I catch anybody, ever, jumping off a yard arm again I will personally break what bones are left and send you home in a wheel chair.
terry		We're gonna die!!!  We're all gonna die!
skipper		Excellent point.  As you might have noticed, being out here pretty much puts you in the moment.  If you panic, if you lose your head, you die.  Maybe you take your mates with you.  How'd you like to have to bet on Terry here getting us home today? Each one of you is responsible for the rest.  "Where we go one, we go all".  If your buddy is asleep at the switch we're all fish food.
skipper		The ship beneath you is not a toy and sailing is not a game.  The Albatross will take us far gentlemen, but she demands constant attention.  Respect her, and we'll do fine.  Oh, and one more thing. There is nothing that goes on, on this boat that I don't know about. She speaks to me in the night.  So don't test me.  Not even a little.
skipper		Nothing like experience to put things in perspective.  Huh son?  Alright.  Let's go home.
lawford		That's not a satisfactory answer.
john		Look, save it for somebody else will ya.  This ancient shit doesn't have anything to do with me.
lawford		Shit?!!!
lawford		Read for me please the words of Mr. Keats at the bottom of the page.
robin		I'll read it.  I mean I don't mind.
john		Shut up donut.
john		 Much have I traveled in realms of gold/ And many goodly states and kingdoms seen/ Round many western islands have I been/ Which bards in fealty to Apollo hold/ Oft of one wide expanse had I been told/ That deep-browed Homer ruled as his demesne.
lawford		You know what he is talking about here?
lawford		 Awe.  Humility.  He's telling you that he has traveled the seas as Homer did.  As Ulysses had before him as he tried to find his way home to Ithaca after the Trojan Wars. "That deep browed Homer"...
lawford		Brilliant, seasoned, wise, of the mind; "... ruled as his demesne." He commands the voyage of the imagination, like a god.  That is what one of the greatest literary minds of modern times, Mr. Boutillier, has to say about Homer.
lawford		You think the Odyssey is dull?  I'll tell you something, it's about each one of you -- right now.  Doubt and expectation.  Friendship, community, self sacrifice and accountability.
lawford		This isn't just a story!!  It's history made allegory.  It is a philosophical handbook for life!  It holds the secret of this very voyage.
john		What is it... the secret?
john		 What?
lawford		If it were only that simple, my young friend.  Read on, gentlemen. Read on.
robin		Bill!!  Skipper!!
skipper		You all right?
chuck		It was my fault.  I slipped.
skipper		Why didn't you go up there?
skipper		Speak up.
charlie		He's afraid to climb.
skipper		What?  Is that true?
skipper		Why wasn't I made aware of this Bill?
bill		I didn't know sir.
skipper		It's your job to know.  If something goes wrong up there, the other eighteen people aboard can't be wondering if he's gonna do his job or not.
skipper		Swing up, son.
robin		 What?
skipper		Up you go.  Right now.
skipper		Do you have something to say?
phil		 No.
skipper		Then keep your mouth shut.
skipper		 What's it going to be?
robin		I'm sorry...
skipper		Sorry won't cut it.
skipper		Survival means discipline and assimilation.  There are no special cases here.  Now, get going.  Get up there.
skipper		What are you blubbering about?
robin		I don't know...
skipper		One hand in front of the other son. We'll do it together.
skipper		Don't look down.  Look in my eyes! Climb!  We'll do it together.
robin		 I can't.
skipper		You climb damn it, or so help me I'll haul you to the foretop by your diaper and leave you there!
robin		Aaauuuhhh!!!
skipper		Are you hating this?!  Are you!
robin		I hate you, you son of a bitch!!!
skipper		No.  Hate the fear inside of you! Climb like a man mister!  Hate it! Hate it away.  Hate your way up one more rung!!  Do it right now!!
together		Auuuggghhh!!!!
robin		Oh, god...
skipper		Don't hate yourself.  Hate your weakness.  All right.  Get down.
skipper		I'm only gonna say this one time. I'm not here to wipe noses and asses.  I'm not your mother.  Trust funds and blue blazers don't get you a thing out here.  You wanna act like babies, then get off my boat.
skipper		 Any other 'phobias' I need to know about?
phil		No, sir.
skipper		Excellent.  Bill, find Mr. Weathers a position to suit his condition.
skipper		Remember something, sooner or later... we all have to face it.
chuck		 Face what?
skipper		We're awfully quiet tonight.
skipper		Something on your mind, George?
george		I think you were too hard on Weathers.
skipper		You do?
george		Yes.  I do.
skipper		I need to know what I'm working with; what their boundaries are. Their lives depend on it, and for that matter so does yours.  We've got to bring them together.  Make them a crew.  We're as strong as our weakest link and I don't want to find that out the hard way.  So, I will challenge them and they will come together.
george		 Yes sir.
skipper		You know the best thing about being a Skipper is the worst thing.  It's all my responsibility.  So I'll tell you what George, you stay off of my bridge, and I'll stay out of your galley.  We'll get along that way.
george		Fucking bastard.
lawford		I've seen him snatch the tail of the tempest and stuff it, screaming, into a bottle.  The bilges are full of them.
george		What do you mean?
lawford		He's been beyond the reach.  To the edge of the abyss and back.  He'll do well by us all George.  He's a real salt.  There's no malice in him and there's nothing more dear to him than his boys.  So sleep well my friend.
chuck		How ya doing?
robin		 Fine.
chuck		Good.
robin		Look, I appreciate, you know, the concern and all, but like he said, I can take care of myself.
chuck		I just brought you something to eat.
chuck		I feel like I got you into this.
robin		Forget it.
chuck		I'm used to spending a lot of time alone.  I guess that's what I thought it would be out here.  But, it's not is it?
robin		 I'm sorry I left you hanging up there.
chuck		It doesn't matter.  Really.  I'm just sorry you got chewed out.
robin		My brother and I used to climb to the top of this old beech tree in the back yard and watch the moon come up just like this.  My parents would fight all the time so we'd sneak out there where we couldn't hear 'em and recite scenes from our favorite movies.
robin		Would you believe I miss it?  The middle of paradise and I'm homesick.
chuck		 Well, I wouldn't worry.  It'll all be there when we get back.
john		 You believe that?!
chris		Sorry.
lawford		 We're gonna have nobody left up here to crew.  Better let Skipper know.
john		Well Gieg, I'm glad to see I'm not the only guy on this boat that can take a little rock'n roll.  Bunch of wusses, I swear...!
john		Son of a bitch!!
skipper		Come in.
bill		Skipper, uh, the crew is pretty much doing group boot over the side.
skipper		Well, that's all part of it.
bill		We've got weather moving in from the west.
skipper		That's part of it, too.
chuck		That a... storm, Skipper?
skipper		Uh, huh.
chuck		Would you, um, say it's a big storm?
skipper		Sometimes it gets exciting out here.
lawford		What do you think?
skipper		Barometer's dropping.  The first blow'll come from the south.  Might get interesting.
chuck		Shouldn't we turn away?
skipper		You can't run from the wind son. You trim your sails, face the music and let the chips fall.  Bill, let's close her up, dog, tight.
skipper		Furl the squares, reef the main, and bend on the storm jib, but keep it furled.  Drop everything but the inner jib.  I want everybody down before we get any lightning.
george		Why's it always happen at night?
skipper		George... I want hot food in everybody.  Get to it.
alice		Looks like weather.
skipper		Yep.
skipper		Do me a favor and tell Bill once she's dogged down I want everyone to break out their slickers and make sure their gear is stowed or we'll spend the next week sorting underwear.  Lawford, Bill, Mike, John, and Phil will stand the watch.  Everyone else hit the racks.
phil		 I'm not staying out here.
skipper		No.  That's for sure.  Charlie, take his place.
chuck		If it's all the same, I'd like to stay on deck.
skipper		Take the wheel.
skipper		Everyone out of the rigging NOW!
bill		Everybody down!  ON THE DOUBLE!!
tod		 HERE IT COMES!!
skipper		Bill, on the wheel with Chuck.
tod		We blew the inner!
alice		I'll go.
skipper		Bring it down and run up the storm jib.  We'll fix it later.  Stay out of reach of the blocks!
skipper		 Well, we're in it now.
alice		NOOO!!!
skipper		 Hold her steady.
alice		Release this when I tell you!!
alice		NOW!!!
skipper		Be careful will ya?
john		What ever you say Cap...
skipper		Let's get that storm jib up.
lawford		You know what they say in the Navy don't you?
rick		What's that, Big Daddy?
lawford		"If it moves, salute it.  If it doesn't move, pick it up.  If it's too big to pick up, paint it!"
mike		Ladies, gentlemen and hermaphrodites, Mr. Corry and I are happy to announce the grand opening of Trans-Border Enterprises.
chris		All of the creature comforts and vices you could possibly want, at home or abroad, available twenty- four hours a day.
mike		For a price, of course.
robin		If you've got "a broad" available I'll take her.
john		Like you'd know what to do with one.
terry		You got Marlboro's?
chris		Absa-fuckin-lutely.
chuck		Toss me a Cola.
chris		Fifty cents.
chuck		What?!!
mike		Contraband's hard to come by out here son.
phil		Hey Goodall, you got a date or something?
john		Yeah.  With your mom.
everybody		Oooooooo.
chris		We also have a few rental items...
mike		There's a penalty for any material returned to the Trans-Border Library with sticky pages.
mike		Hey, you can't do that!!  He can't do that!!
chris		Sure he can.
chuck		Come on you guys, this isn't funny!
charlie		Come on Chucky.  Show us a little grit.
chuck		YEEE HAAAA!!!!!
charlie		Okay, who's next?
phil		You gotta be kidding?  He's a human chum line!
rick		No self respecting shark is gonna take a bite out of you.
terry		I'm next!
tod		There she blows!!
skipper		Get him in.
bill		Come on in!!!
skipper		Do it now Bill.
terry		Get me out!!!  Get me out!!!
mike		Oh my god!!  It's a...
skipper		 Don't lose it son.
george		Keep it coming.
charlie		Whoops.
terry		Oh Jesus!  Oh Jesus Christ!!
george		He must be two hundred pounds! Bring him in close and try to hold him steady.
george		Got him!
rick		Damn Terr, you're whiter than Sister Mary Anne's butt.
skipper		Well, now you have something to write home about.
tom		Land ho!!!  Land ho!!!
george		Shit.
robin		There's more where that came from.
alice		Cheated death again.
skipper		Yep.
robin		What do you say?  Cokes?  I'm buying.
robin		You're right Chuck.  There's nothing quite as refreshing as a cold ten cent Coke that only costs ten cents!
robin		You think Skipper and Alice do it?
chuck		Do what?
robin		Ya know... "It".
chuck		That's like wondering if your mom and dad do it.  Who wants to know?
john		She isn't that old.
chuck		What do you mean?
john		I mean she looks pretty damn good in her all-together for being thirty.
robin		How would you know?
john		Trust me donut.  I know.
robin		What?  Come on...
john		On the dog watch, night after the storm, I look down into the skylight above Skipper's cabin and there she was, peelin' down.
chuck		No way!
robin		Come on man, what'd they look like?
john		Damn, Porkchop, you sound just like a guy who ain't never seen a pair.
robin		I've seen 'em.  I've seen 'em.
chuck		I walked in on my parents one time. It was only like eight o'clock and they were in bed and I thought that was kinda weird so I just walked in.
john		That's what they get for not locking the door.
chuck		So I'm standing there and you could hear a pin drop.  No breathing or snoring... Suddenly it hits me that somethin' was goin' on that just stopped, really fast, like people are holding their breath.
robin		So... What happened?
chuck		My mother says in this really low, but very awake kind of voice "What?"
robin		What'd you do?
chuck		I said "Sorry, wrong room" and walked away.
john		Did you shut the door at least?
chuck		I don't remember.
robin		My parents don't do it anymore.
chuck		How do you know?  They might.
robin		'Cause they're getting a divorce.  That's why they sent me here.  My sister's at Tabor.  They just wanted us out of the house so they could get down to business.
john		They tell you that?
robin		I figured it out.
chuck		Yeah.
john		My old man split along time ago.  It doesn't mean anything.  You just take care of number one that's all that matters.
robin		It matters to me.
john		 Okay donut.  Whatever you say.
chuck		We better get back.
robin		Did you really see 'em.
skipper		It's a good sail boys.
tod		Thank you, sir.  Shall we trim the main Skipper?  I think we could get another knot or two.
skipper		As you like.
phil		What do you say I have a crack at the wheel?
tod		I'd say, fuck off junior.
tod		Jesus Christ!!  Let it out.  Let it out!!
skipper		Hard to port!  Hard to port!!
skipper		Start the engine.  All ahead full!! Scallop the Square and drop the rest!!
tod		 I don't know what happened Skipper. It just blew out.
robin		Where are you from any way?
chuck		Depths of hell... Ohio.  How 'bout you?
robin		Kennet Square, PA.  'Mushroom capital of the world'.
tod		Sorry to here it.
chuck		Well, and it's pretty cool too, ya know?  Bein' here together an all...
phil		Christ, I'm gonna choke on 'feel good'...
tod		Why are you such a penis Phil.  Do you do it on purpose or can't you help it.
phil		Tug my chain Johnstone.
skipper		After midterms we'll finish our run down to Curacao.
skipper		I have arranged to host a good will cruise for the Dutch students of the local school there.
phil		 Joy, rapture...
skipper		Each one of you will be responsible for one student.  I'll expect you to be courteous.  You represent this school and your country.  We'll sail in the morning.
george		That's chow.
rick		Hey man, wake up.  Wake up!
robin		I was falling...
phil		Hey, shut up will ya?
chuck		It was a bad dream...
robin		It was so real...
chuck		Here's the thing; whenever you're having a nightmare, all you have to do is say 1-2-3 wake up!  You'll be out of it.  You'll wake up.
robin		Who told you that?
chuck		My dad.
robin		It works?
chuck		Swear to God.  Only good advice he ever gave me.  Now, go back to sleep.
chuck		 You okay now?
robin		That's how he died you know.
chuck		Who?
robin		My brother.  He fell out of the old beech tree.  Broke his neck.  I was on a camp out.  They started going at it, throwin' things, a real knock down...  They didn't find him 'till the next morning.  They didn't even know why he was up there.
chuck		Jesus, you never told them?
robin		I couldn't.
mike		 Hey you guys, come on!
phil		Forget it.  Count me out!
george		 What?!  What's happening?!!
skipper		You're officer of the watch, George.
george		I'm sorry, Skip.  It's this damned book.  Lawford gave it to me.
george		Son-of-a-bitch.
skipper		We're short one long boat too.  Come on.
rick		Oh I was walkin' down Lime street one day...
all		Hey!  Weigh!  Blow the man down...
rick		A pretty young maiden she happened my way...
all		Give me some time to blow the man down...
skipper		I guess we know what the next acquisition for the galley is going to be...
george		What's that?
skipper		A padlock.
rick		So to all you sailors who've fought wind and whale...
all		Weight!  Hey!  Blow the man down...
rick		She said "None the better, you all go to hell..."
all		Give me some time to Blow the man down!
chris		I only have one question.
john		What's that, Canuck?
chris		If we're not on the boat, how come the ground is moving?
chuck		You think George'll miss the bottle?
terry		We'll blame it on Big Daddy.  He's a lush.
mike		All I know is if that Viking son of a bitch puts me on smegma duty one more time I'm gonna have to run him through.
terry		 The "Old Man" likes a tight ship!
charlie		"If it moves, shoot it..."
chuck		"If it doesn't move, throw it overboard.  If it's too big to throw overboard, screw it!"
rick		You think Old Thunder Nuts will figure out that we're A.W.O.L.
phil		"There is nothing that goes on, on this boat that I don't know about. She speaks to me in the night.  So don't test me.  Not even a little..."
george		Immortality.
skipper		Spirits have a way of bringing that out.
george		And being sixteen.
skipper		They're in a hurry to grow up.  They don't know about consequences or responsibility.  That's being sixteen too.  I promise you one thing...
george		What's that?
skipper		They'll know about it in the morning.
robin		 Jesus H. Christ.
terry		What now pork chop?
robin		Look!
terry		Holy shit!  Where'd she go?
charlie		What the hell is going on?
mike		She's gone!  The boat's gone!!
phil		Oh Jesus, oh Jesus.  Man I knew we shouldn't have gone.  I tried to tell you.  I tried to tell you.  You guys made me come!  You made me come!!
john		Will you shut up?  You sound like my fucking sister.
chuck		Alright.  Everybody just stay cool. We'll figure this out.
mike		Who the hell checked the mooring?
robin		I did.  Why?
charlie		Maybe she pulled free...
mike		What if they don't know.  If she's adrift, if they're asleep, she could run aground.  She could break up on the reef.
phil		 Maybe you didn't check it good enough.
robin		 I did.  I swear.
phil		Yeah, well you're really gonna have some bad dreams if we find out you didn't.
john		That's enough.
phil		How the hell are we gonna get outta here?
john		We'll think of something.
phil		Oh, praise the lord.  Relax everybody.  Everything is under control.  The jug head's going to think of something.
john		Nobody calls me an idiot.
phil		God damn it man.  I think he broke my nose!
chuck		Shut up, Phil.
terry		Well that's just great.  Now what are we supposed to do?
rick		Oh-my-god...
robin		I'm not sure if this is really good or really bad.
george		I got a live one!
skipper		The thing about fishing George, is you need to let 'em run some.  Give 'em just enough slack so they don't break the line.  But at the same time you've gotta keep enough tension to wear 'em down, bring 'em in slowly so they don't really know they're hooked.
george		I'll try and remember that.
skipper		You know what a loose cannon is? 'Bout the worst thing that could happen to a wooden ship.  All it took was one, crashing around the deck in a storm... It'd smash everything in its way, maybe take out a mast or punch a hole right through the hull.  Think about it, just one cannon not tied down, not anchored, could take a whole 'Man of War' straight to the bottom.
mike		 But we don't have any cannons?
chris		 Shut up!
skipper		Now, if the Skipper were smart, if he could see a storm building, why he'd cut loose every gun on his boat.  Even though it would leave him at a disadvantage in battle, he'd push 'em into the sea.  Better chance running for port than risk the entire ship, his crew.
skipper		People are like that sometimes. They cut loose and before you know it, they're knocking holes in everything.  So you gotta ask yourself if it might not be better to just put 'em off before they sink the whole thing.  I mean after all, you can always get new cannons.
skipper		 I want a tight ship, everybody shaved and in clean clothes when we make Curacao.  If it goes well, if your mid terms are acceptable, I may reconsider my decision about the rest of the trip.  That's all.
chuck		Where you going?
john		To take a piss.
robin		Really?
john		Yeah, that's right.  You wanna come in and shake it for me?
chuck		If you're gonna cheat, you might as well copy off somebody who's gonna get the answer right.
john		You've gotta be kidding.  Get the fuck outta my way!
john		What the hell!!!
chuck		Takin' a piss?
robin		Why, man?
john		I don't have to listen to this.
chuck		Yes you do, stupid.  Because if you don't, I'm gonna go right up there and have a heart to heart with Skipper and you'll be on the first plane back to idiotville.
robin		Cut it out man!!  Stop it!!!  What's the matter with you?  If Phil had caught you he'd have ratted you out in a second.  You get caught cheating, you'll get kicked off the boat.
john		I cheated to get on the boat!!!  All right?!
chuck		What?
john		I doctored my grades so I'd make the cut.  I'm a moron, okay?  You satisfied?!
chuck		You're not a moron.
john		Wanna bet?  Takes me half a day to get through one chapter of Lawford and I still don't have any idea what the hell he's talkin' about.  You know why it takes me so long to write papers?  because I can't spell.  While everybody else is sleeping, I'm in the rack with a flashlight and a dictionary.
john		Hell, they even kicked me outa vo- tech 'cause I couldn't read a slide rule.
phil		I can show you how to use a slide rule.
robin		How long you been standing there?
phil		Long enough.
john		They were gonna put me into special- ed this year.  I stole a copy of my transcript, changed all the grades. Shit, who am I kidding.  I'll never pass the boards.
chuck		Listen, you don't cheat, and we'll make sure you get the grades.  We'll start a private study group.  Nobody knows.  You'll ace that test.
robin		I'm in.
phil		Me, too.
john		Why would you do that?
chuck		Because we believe in you.  Because we're your friends.
chuck		What are they doing?
robin		I can't make it out?
robin		Hey, Phil... Swing up the 'binocs' and tell us what you see.
phil		 They're waving... handkerchiefs or something.
rick		What?
charlie		Maybe they're surrendering.
phil		Wait a second...
phil		They're girls!  They're all girls!
tod		Gimme those.
tod		WHHOOOOAAAAA!!!!!!  WOMEN!!!
bill		Good morning, ladies.
robin		What are we supposed to talk about?
phil		You've gotta be kidding?
robin		But, they don't speak English.
phil		There are some things that everybody does in the same language.
chuck		Yeah, but how are you supposed to make the first move?
phil		Like this!
phil		Yeeee Haaaaa!!
skipper		A very enthusiastic welcome.
skipper		Thank you.  You're all ready to sail then?
alice		I'm sure they won't be disappointed.
peggy		Surprise!
francis		Well, well.  What do we have here? A floating brothel?
alice		 Hardly.
francis		Well, we thought we'd drop in and see if you were all still in one piece.
skipper		 And, of course, we are.
francis		Well, you never can tell these days, can you?
skipper		What is it we can do for you today?
francis		Well, we've come to give our boy a little break from the monotony.
phil		It's not monotonous.
francis		Never the less...
francis		Hop to boy.  We haven't got all day.
skipper		I didn't know, Phil.
crew together		When the sun came up there was whisky in the cup/ and not one of us was sober/ Kerry thought she saw a picture, but it really was the sun/ then we knew the party was over...
chuck		Bregitta.  Do you believe it?
john		Believe what?
chuck		Her name.  Bregitta.  It's poetry.
terry		Soon as we ship it'll be "forgetta".
tod		Don't mind him, Chucky.  You're talking to a guy whose idea of big romance is a palm full of Vaseline.
terry		Screw you, Valentino.  I haven't seen you swapping spit with anybody.
tod		That's because I'm discrete, moron.
skipper		Alright, gentlemen, we sail with the tide.  Twenty-three hundred.  Sharp. I'm not waiting.  Have a good time tonight but be back on time.
lawford		Hold this, will ya?
lawford		Madam, I would consider it a privilege if you would allow me to take you on a tour of the dance floor.
lawford		You're very light on your feet Ms. Boyde.  Was it you who taught all of these young ladies the art of the dance?
francis		What's wrong, you don't like steak?
phil		I should be eating with the crew.
francis		Humor me.  Eat it anyway.
phil		Why are you here?
peggy		We missed you.  We wanted to check on you.
phil		I don't need you spying on me.
francis		Spying?!
phil		I can take care of myself.
francis		 Oh, really?
phil		Look, you put me on this boat in the first place.  I didn't want to come but I did.  Why do you have to embarrass me.  Why can't you just leave me alone?
peggy		Francis!!
francis		Listen to me, you thankless little prick.  We're your parents, so don't you dare talk to me disrespectfully. What the hell is it, this captain? Because I'll see him in a rowboat...
phil		It has nothing to do with him.
francis		Well, what does it have to do with? Us?
phil		No.  Look, it's me okay?  Can't it just be about me?  For once?
skipper		He would have loved this.
alice		Your father?
skipper		All his years at sea, he never stopped talking about these islands.
alice		You miss him.
skipper		Every hour.  Every minute.  I wish he was here.  I wish he could have sailed our girl.  Seen these boys...
skipper		I'd have liked to have said goodbye.
alice		He knows.
skipper		You sound so sure.
alice		I am about this.
alice		What?
skipper		He never would have believed a woman like you existed.
alice		Do you remember the last time you and I danced under the stars?
skipper		Guilty.
alice		On the deck of the Yankee, the night you asked me to marry you.  We weren't much older than they are.
skipper		Would you allow me?
george		If I didn't know better I'd say the old man was acting almost halfway human.
lawford		He is halfway human.
chuck		I can't remember feeling like this about myself, a place, someone like you.  We've come such a long way, seen so much.  But nothing like this.
chuck		I'm not the best at expressing myself.  Maybe the only reason I can now is because I know you don't understand me.  I like you so much.  Too much.  But how could I?  I mean, if we can't even communicate, how could I know you?  It's confusing.  We sail in an hour and I'll never see you again.
bregitta		I like you, too.
bregitta		Come on.  We don't have much time.
robin		 What?
robin		 Wait for me okay.  I'll be right back.  I swear.
robin		Phil.  What are you doing?
phil		Fandango, Junior.  I'm gonna do some limbo baby!!
robin		No way Phil.  Not like this.
phil		Roger Meris, steps up, it's a corker down the pipe...
phil		It's outta here!
robin		Come on man.  Let's just talk about it.
robin		Phil!  Wait man... Come on...
john		 Be right back.
john		Jesus!  What the hell happened to him.
phil		Lemme go!  Lemme go!!
robin		I don't know.  We gotta get 'im outta here before Skipper sees him like this.
phil		Son of a bitch!!
john		Phil, if you don't calm down, I'm gonna hurt you.  Got it?
lawford		The rust won't wait for you to read Conrad, Goodall.
john		Then he shouldn't have written such a long poem, Mr. Lawford.
lawford		Read on, young John.  Read on. College boards are coming.
tod		There they blow!!  There they blow!! Dolphins off the bow!!!
chris		Jesus Christ!
phil		Fuck off man.  It's just a fish.
rick		No, Phil.  It's a mammal.
skipper		 Bill, lower a long boat.  We'll bring her up with the davit.
skipper		What do you think?
alice		It's through her lung.
skipper		 Nice shot.
skipper		Finish it.
phil		 I'm not gonna kill it.
skipper		You already have.  Now go on.  Do it.
skipper		What the hell is wrong with you?!
skipper		Come on.  You got so much fight in you; you wanna kill something?  Take your best shot.  The first one's free.
skipper		That's what I thought.  You're done.  You're going home.
phil		You mean-assed bastard!!  You son of a bitch!!  You can't do this!!!  You can't do this!!!  God damn you!! God damn you!!
chuck		Why'd you do it?
phil		 What's the difference?
chuck		You only hurt yourself you know?
phil		Like you really care.  Like any of you give a shit what happens to me.
rick		You're the one who doesn't care, Phil.
phil		It hurts too much to care.
rick		About yourself?
phil		About anything.
robin		We shouldn't be putting him off the boat.
chris		The guy's out of control.
robin		Everybody's been outta control on this trip.  Are we a crew or not?  I mean, isn't that what this is supposed to be all about?
mike		You're the last person who should be whining about being a "crew".
robin		How do you figure that?
mike		Well, I'd sure like to go into the subject of vertigo and all, but I wouldn't want you to piss yourself.
john		You're a regular prick you know that?
mike		Tell it to the dolphin, Goodall.
john		Everybody deserves a second chance, ya know?  We'd do the same for you Mike.
robin		It's about family isn't it?  I mean are we together on this or not?
mike		Hell, do what ever you want.  It won't change anything anyway.
robin		I can't go in there.
chuck		What are you talking about.
robin		The guys were right.  It'll mean nothing coming from me.  He'll listen to you Chuck.  Everybody does.
skipper		Come.
skipper		What's on your mind?
chuck		I'm here on behalf of the crew, sir.
skipper		Well, spit it out.
chuck		The fact is... We'd like you to give Phil another chance.
skipper		Can't do it.
chuck		Sir...?
skipper		Close the door.  Sit down.
skipper		Why do you think I'm sending him home?
chuck		He killed the dolphin.
skipper		The Dolphin was a symptom.
chuck		Of what?
skipper		Of a fight he can't win out here.
chuck		It's his father sir.  He's suffocating him.  We've all seen it...
chuck		I mean he has all these expectations and he doesn't even know who his own kid is.  What right did then have to show up here?
skipper		They have every right Chuck.
chuck		They send us because they want us to change, or grow up or something and then they try to keep us the same.
skipper		Let me tell you something about Phil's father, and your's too.  How do you think you got here?  You think this is all free, that they owe you something?  You think they enjoy riding subways and commuter trains, driving buses or pulling lobster traps?  Work fifty weeks a year to keep you in tennis shoes and private school?  Look around at how the rest of the world lives Chuck. We're the luckiest people alive, every one of us.  They gave it up for you and Phil, and me too my friend.
skipper		There are ground rules in families just like on this boat.  If you and Phil don't like it, I'm sorry. Someday you'll understand that, and if you're lucky, you'll come home and find your best friend has been there all along waiting for you to forgive him for being a father. It'll be the way it used to be, when you were ten and your dad was a giant.
skipper		Does Phil know how you guys feel?
chuck		I don't know.
skipper		You should tell him.  That's something he can take with him.
skipper		I'm all ears.
alice		You may not like what you hear.
skipper		I can take it.
alice		They've become what you wanted. They're a crew.  That's why he came.
skipper		Why did we begin this?
alice		We were idealists.
skipper		Because we believed we could make an impact out here.  Self reliance and community through the disciplines of sailing.
alice		I haven't forgotten.
skipper		Phil, he's not looking inside.  He's just striking out at the world.
alice		He has a lot of hurt inside him.
skipper		Well, he better learn to own it. Actions have consequences.  It's not what happens here Alice, it's what they take away with them.
alice		You're still an idealist.
skipper		Oh hell...
rick		Good luck.
phil		I'm ready.
charlie		His ol' man's gonna eat him for lunch.
john		I know what that's like.
rick		Yeah.
chuck		My god...
phil		I'm sorry.
skipper		I know, Phil.
skipper		They never gave up on you, you know.
phil		Tell 'em I said... thanks.  Goodbye Skipper.
tod		Listen man, I think I have a problem.
chuck		We all have problems.
tod		I'm pissin' fire man.
alice		Have a nice time in Curacao, did you Tod?
alice		Not so fast.
chris		Way-ta-go Valentino.  I never even copped a feel in Curacao.
tod		Yeah well, your sexual orientation is not my problem.
rick		Man, is there a social disease you haven't had?
charlie		So much for vestal virgins.
lawford		What do you make of that?
skipper		I don't know.
george		Jesus.  She's got guns.
skipper		She's Cuban.
skipper		 GET DOWN!  EVERYBODY DOWN!!
skipper		Jesus, we're Americans!!!  We're Americans!!!
terry		Jesus, they're gonna sink us!!
skipper		Bill drop everything.  Do it now!
skipper		 Who the hell do they think they are?
george		They want us to identify ourselves.
skipper		Tell them we're the American School Ship, Albatross.
george		They think we're carrying Cuban refugees.  Skipper, they mean to board us.
skipper		Not a chance.  Remind them that according to the Geneva Convention, firing on a civilian vessel on the high sea is an act of war.
george		They say they are acting on the direct authority of Fidel Castro.
skipper		Tell 'em to come aboard.
skipper		 We've come a long way gentlemen. But this is no time for heroes.  I know you're much more, but I need you to be boys right now.  That's an order.  Now scatter and find your passports.
bill		What's wrong?
lawford		We've got a problem.
skipper		What's that?
lawford		Terry left his passport in Curacao. We could hide him...
skipper		No.  Bring him on deck with the others.
commander		Chicken is a fool's game captain.
skipper		So is violating international law.
commander		But you invited is aboard.
skipper		Your cannons made a compelling argument.
commander		Stow away?
skipper		He left his passport in Curacao. It's being mailed to Panama.
commander		That is unfortunate.  We'll have to take him with us.
lawford		If he's a Cuban, Castro wears a dress.
skipper		Nobody aboard my ship is going anywhere.
commander		Perhaps in appreciation for our country's pursuit of peace, you might offer us some, token of gratitude.
skipper		What do you want?
commander		This.  And...
commander		... and that.
george		You've got to be kidding!!
skipper		 Take it.
skipper		Now, get the hell off my ship.
commander		You'll really have something to teach your students now.
skipper		Las estrellas es lo unico, que un marinero verdadero se mesesita para encontrarse.  Verdade Patron?
chuck		What'd he say?
george		He told them real sailors need only the stars.
skipper		Alright then, let's get outta here.
neptune		Hold fast that polliwog and make him presentable.
neptune		Let it be known that on this day in the year nineteen hundred and sixty- one there appeared within the limits of my royal kingdom, the sailing ship brigantine Albatross, bound for Galapagos.  All vessels that sail my domain shall be subject to the scrutiny of the underworld...
neptune		Silence!!!
neptune		Tonight you shall all enter the Order of the Shellbacks.  Only when you have been duly initiated shall you enjoy the mysteries and protection of the trident.  So, let the festivities begin...
all		Hell is to drift, heaven to steer! Hell is to drift, heaven to steer!! Hell is to drift, heaven to steer!!
neptune		By virtue of the power inherited by me, I do hereby command all of my subjects, such as mermaids, sea serpents, dolphins, whales, sharks and turtles, from eating, playing with, or otherwise molesting this vessel or her crew.  Let it be remembered that on this, my Equatorial Domain on Longitude 88' 20' 13" on this 532nd in the year of the dolphin, you entered the Order of the Shellbacks!!
skipper		Land ho!
rick		We're here for the night.
tod		Yeah.
alice		What are they doing?
skipper		Claiming their place in the world.
alice		Well gentlemen, I have the results of your college board scores.  I think most of you will be pleased.
chuck		You okay?
john		Yeah.  How'd you do.
chuck		Ninety-six.
john		Congratulations.
chuck		What about you?
chuck		It's a ninety-one!  It's an 'A'!
john		I know.
chuck		 You know?  Then why are you up here looking like you're about to jump overboard?!
john		I just can't believe it.
chuck		This is your moment, don't you see? The instant when you know that your life is never going to be the same again.  When you stand up and are counted.
john		I couldn't have done it without you.
chuck		Yes you could.  You did.  This is all you.  Nobody else.
john		Thank you.
chuck		Feels different doesn't it?
john		What?
chuck		That we're going back.  I don't want it to end.  I don't want to be what I was when I left.
john		What was that?
chuck		Anonymous.
chuck		I've been getting ninety-sixes my whole life.  It's what they expect. After all this, I still haven't figured it out.
john		Figured what out?
chuck		Who I am, outside of this boat. What the hell I'm doing here.
john		I'll tell you who you are.  You're the glue.  You're the thing that holds everybody around you together. You're strong, you listen and you see things in people the rest of us can't.  It's a gift.
chuck		You know, I never had friends like this.
john		Me either.
chuck		I feel like... we can do anything.
john		We can.
lawford		A wet sheet and a flowing sea/ A wind that follows fast, And fills the white and rushing sail, And bends the gallant mast/ Arise, arise you salty dogs.  The watch is on.
chuck		Looks like we're gonna get wet.
bill		Well, we need it.  I want to take a nice long bath and catch some water for my laundry.
john		Save some for me will you?
bill		You got it.  I'm going below.
tod		Jesus!!
skipper		Everybody okay?
skipper		All hands keep out of the rigging and stay clear of the masts.
skipper		All right gentlemen.  Thor's had his fun.  Let's keep a keen eye.
skipper		 No!  Stay down!!
john		 HERE IT COMES!!!
skipper		 White Squall!
skipper		Hard to starboard!!!  Hard to starboard!!!
tod		No, hard to port!
skipper		TURN THE GOD DAMNED WHEEL TO THE RIGHT!!!
bill		Get out!!  Everybody out!!
lawford		GO, GO, GO!!!  TOPSIDE!!!  Come on Charlie!  George, get them out!!
chuck		My God, they're drowning!
skipper		Oh please, no.  Not this woman.
skipper		Alice, get up!!  Come on girl!!
skipper		Get out!!  Get out!!  Jesus Christ, please God, Alice get out!!!
rick		Bill, you go.  We'll be right behind you.
skipper		Johnny, it's not good.
john		I can get it!
lawford		My God!!  Oh God I'm dying!!!
chuck		OH GOD!!!!!
skipper		Raise your sail, Bill.  North, north- east.  Keep a sharp look out for Florida.
bill		Maybe we could wait around a little longer, sir...
skipper		 She's gone... She's gone.
skipper		Carry on.
bill		Yes sir.
skipper		North, north-east.  And Dick, please make a note of our final position.
lawford		Hands and feet inside the boats.
chuck		AAAAHHHH!!!!
chuck		 Wake up.  Wake up.  1-2-3 wake up.
chuck		 Skipper?
skipper		I'm sorry.  I'm so sorry.
man		What about the manifest!!  What about my son!!!
woman		How many made it?  Nobody will tell us anything!!
officer		We don't have a list of survivors yet.  Please stand back.  Don't push!
skipper		Thank you.
francis		 Welcome home.
charlie		Phil?
tod		 Charlie!!  Bill!!
terry's mother		Oh, sweetheart!  Look at you...
terry		Skipper!!
bill		It wasn't his fault mister...
skipper		Yes I do.  And it's private.  Very private.
officer		Sit down Captain.  We'll have a car here in a few minutes.  Can I get you a cup of coffee?
skipper		No, thank you.
charles		Chuck!  Chuck!!!
chuck		Dad!
chuck		Where's Mom?
charles		I couldn't bring her down here until I knew you were safe.
charles		Come on.
charles		I thought we'd find a store, get you fixed up and then get you some lunch.  That sound good?
chuck		Yeah, sure.
charles		I'm sorry, son.  Are you okay?
charles		Why don't you go and try some of that on?
chuck		Okay.
charles		How're you doing in there?
charles		All right.  I'm gonna wander over and look at some shoes...
chuck		 Okay.
chuck		Oh God...
man		You okay, kid?
charles		Chuck!!
chuck		When we were growing up I always felt like you would take care of things, that everything would be okay.  But you can't make this okay, can you?
charles		No, I can't.
tyler		There are allegations questioning your competence with regard to the command of the Albatross.  I have been instructed to convene a formal tribunal to determine whether or not negligence played a part in the sinking.
skipper		I understand.
tyler		May I ask you something?
tyler		How'd you manage to piss off a guy as powerful as Francis Boutillier?
skipper		It wasn't hard.
tyler		I used to helm a school ship.  A long time ago.
skipper		The Coast Guard 'Eagle'.  She never lost a race while you were Skipper.
tyler		That's right, we didn't.  I miss it sometimes.  But, there are other things a Skipper can do.
tyler		The families... want your ticket. Turn it in, we forget the whole thing.  Everybody goes home.
skipper		... Absolutely not.
tyler		The papers are going to eat you alive.  Even if you beat it, you'll never get another commission.  They want someone to be accountable.
skipper		I am accountable.
charlie		We gotta talk.
bill		We're all going to have to testify. They're going to try to take his license.
tom		Why?
chuck		They need it to be simple.  They need a reason.
tom		Who?
chuck		All of them.  Everybody waiting on that dock.
tim		So what are we supposed to do?
tod		Just tell 'em what we know and be done with it.  That's what he'd want.
terry		Easy for you to say.
tod		What's that supposed to mean?!
terry		Everybody knows why she went over Tod.  You jibed the boat.
tod		I was trying to get her up wind! That's what you do when you're hit a-beam.  Or maybe you're too stupid to know that!
terry		That's not what Skipper thought.  He was trying to spill air from the main!
bill		It was coming four points off the bow, Terry.  He never could have gotten her around.
terry		Were you on deck?  I was standing right there and all I know is, he...  ... disobeyed an order, twice, and the boat went over.
tod		It didn't go over 'til I turned her starboard!
bill		It was an act of God for Christ's sake.
terry		It was an act of stupidity.
tod		 Was it my fault we were running all that sail?!  Was it my fault she wasn't dogged down?!!  HUH?!!  I couldn't help that the ballast shifted...!  You son of a bitch!! It wasn't my fault!!  it wasn't.
bill		It's okay, Tod.
terry		Then whose?
terry		After the lightning strike, we tried to go aloft to drop sail.  We'd done it a thousand times.  We didn't have to wait for an order.  But Skipper called us down.
charlie		If the foremast had taken a strike, everyone in the rigging would've been fried.  What would you have done?
terry		We would have scalloped the squares from the deck.  Right Bill?
tod		That's right, that's right!  Bleed the sails from the deck and she could've taken a hurricane!
chuck		This is crazy.  Nothing could have prevented what happened.
mike		You guys are missing the point. This is all because of Phil.  Phil and his dear old dad.
bill		What?
mike		How do you think they got this together so fast?  He's been laying for Skipper since the first day.
charlie		Come on.  Like he's got a vendetta or some such shit?
mike		You got it.  I told you he was a turn coat the day we kicked him off the boat.
chuck		No.  You're wrong.
mike		I'm telling you, the only way to change this is to get Phil to call off his old man.  And that ain't gonna happen.  So the way I see it, it's Skipper or us.
chuck		Can we talk?
phil		I guess.
phil		It's okay.  I'll be in, in a minute.  Look, what do you want?
chuck		Everybody's saying this whole tribunal is happening because of your father.  Because of you.
phil		Well that's just typical isn't it?
chuck		Is it true Phil?
phil		I gotta go.
chuck		You weren't there, you don't know what happened.
phil		 I know enough.
chuck		Phil, please.  It won't change anything.  Tell him to call it off.
phil		I'm sorry.
chuck		Wait.
chuck		We figured he'd have wanted you to have it.  You do what you've gotta do Phil.
tyler		The United States Coast Guard has been asked to conduct this maritime hearing to consider the revocation of Captain Richard Sheldrake's U.S. Master Seaman's Certificate.
sanders		Why didn't you drop any sail?
bill		Skipper called us out of the rigging.
sanders		But your instinct was to lose sail?
bill		My instinct was to not get electrocuted.
sanders		How old are you, son?
bill		 Fifteen.
sanders		Thank you.
sanders		Philip, why were you discharged from the Albatross?
phil		Skipper thought I was a challenge to authority.
sanders		Were you?
phil		I don't know.
francis		Captain Sheldrake exhibited an arrogant, controlling attitude in my presence on more than one occasion. I believe he had a personality conflict with my son from the start.
sanders		Well, if you don't mind my asking, sir, why did you let your son stay?
francis		It was his dream to go.  I could hardly stand in the way of that, could I?
sanders		Is it true that you forced Robin Weathers to climb the mast when it was clear that he was acrophobic.
skipper		He climbed when he was ready.
sanders		Were you aware that his brother was killed in a fall.
mike		He did it man.  He sang like a bird.
skipper		Yes, I was.
sanders		Sir, were you aware at any time of the use of alcohol among the crew.
skipper		Yes, I was.
tyler		And you didn't do anything about it?
skipper		 No.  I didn't.
charlie		They're twisting it all around.  Why doesn't he say something?
sanders		Had you ever seen a "White Squall" before this incident?
skipper		No.
sanders		What makes you so sure it was one?
skipper		I can't be sure.
sanders		You really felt that your crew were up for the conditions.
skipper		We'd come twelve thousand miles together, through every kind of seas imaginable...
sanders		Except, a "White Squall".  With all due respect Captain Sheldrake, they're only boys...
skipper		They are much more than that, sir.
sanders		Is it true that the reason you expelled Philip Boutillier...
skipper		 For killing a dolphin.
sanders		... and that you invited him to strike you?  To fight it out on the deck of your ship?!
skipper		Yes, that's true.
sanders		Do you think this is funny?  Some kind of joke?  You lost six people out there.
skipper		 I don't think one second of this is funny, sir.
sanders		I have no more questions at this time.
sanders		Oh, one last thing... Isn't true that your father was a sea Captain?
skipper		Yes.
sanders		Isn't also true that his vessel went down off of Nantucket?  Lost everyone on board.  In fair weather no less.
tyler		What does this have to do with anything Mr. Sanders?
sanders		 Oh, nothing.  I was just curious.
skipper		My father, was more seaman, more of a man, than you might ever hope to be.
tyler		We'll take a brief recess.
tod		There's still a way.
bill		What do you mean?
tod		It's me, don't you see.  Terry's right, I'm the escape hatch.  I disobeyed order.
chuck		You taking the order wouldn't have changed anything.
tod		They don't know that.  We were the only one's on deck. Look, there's nothing they can do to me right?  I'm a kid.
chuck		But that's not the point...
tod		That is the point... And Skipper'll slip off the hook.
downing		Why didn't you turn hard to port as the wind hit?
tod		I thought we'd have a better chance if I headed into the wind so we could spill air from our sails.
downing		But the Captain ordered you hard to starboard.
tod		Twice.
downing		Is that what you were trained to do?
tod		No.
downing		Then what do you think he was trying to do.
tod		Let the blow drive the boat down wind.  Neutralize our canvas.
downing		So when the captain gave you an order contrary to your training, you thought he was making a mistake?
tod		No.
tyler		Then why son, why didn't you follow his order?
tod		Because -- I panicked.
tod's father		That's not true Tod.
terry		 What the hell?  What is he doing.
mike		Son of a gun.  He just sent Skipper a life boat.
tyler		If this young man had responded instantly to your command, do you believe the ship might have been spared?
skipper		I don't know that anything could have prevented what happened.
tyler		Then what are you trying to say then?
skipper		Maybe you can't see what's happening here, but it's clear to me.  I can't bring your sons back.  If you want my ticket, if that will ease your loss, it's the least I can do.  This...
skipper		This is easy.  Living with it, that'll be hard.
chuck		No!!!  Don't you walk away!  Not now.  Not after all of this!!!!
tyler		That enough son!!  Order!!  Please!!
chuck		Tell me Skipper, was it all just a lie?  "Where we go one, we go all". We listened to you.  We believed it. And we're still here!!
chuck		Shame on you then Skipper.  Shame on you.
francis		Sit down!
chuck		Tell them the truth.  Make them understand.
skipper		 You tell them Chuck.
chuck		It's simple.  Bad things happen sometimes.  It wasn't Skipper or Tod.  It was all of us.  Everyone in this room.  Because we all knew the risks.  You sent us... You paid our tuition, you allowed us to go.  So to invent a reason for why this happened, to pin it on one person, well that won't change anything.  It'll just make our experience meaningless.
chuck		If you want to judge this man, judge him by his crew.  Judge him by Alice and George.  Chris and John and Robin.  In one way or another each one of them gave their lives saving one of us.  This may sound crazy but the Albatross wasn't just a ship, or even a school.  It was something that we made, that's inside us. That's who Skipper is.  That's what he taught us.  I guess what it really was about was... the privilege of sacrifice.
chuck		Isn't that right?
skipper		That's right.
bill		When the sun came up, there was whisky in the cup, and not a one of us was sober...
crew together		Jenny thought she saw a picture when it really was the sun, then we knew the party was over.
crew together		Oh my heart is sad, for leaving you today, but I know we'll meet again, when the moon is in the valley and the leafs are on the trees, We will come to clearly in the glen...
harbor master		What do you think you're doing.
harbor master		All right friend, out of the boat.
older chuck		 Stand away.
older chuck		Rest easy old salt.  For together again, we'll sail.
****Dialogues from script :Whiteout.txt****

2.		CONTINUED:
jamie		Sorry, a Professor Sapperstein needs to see you in biology. Said it's urgent.
carrie		Alright --
3.		CONTINUED: 
4.		CONTINUED:
carrie		 Hey Fred, unlock any secrets of the Universe -- discover we're Alien life forms?
fred		Workin' on it.
carrie		Which one's Sapperstein?
scientist		Deschampsia Antarctica.
carrie		Okay, thanks.
sapperstein		Yeah.
carrie		Wanted to see me?
sapperstein		-- Follow me.
carrie		All what?
sapperstein		Cannabis Sativa.
5.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		Professor Sapperstein, I'd like you to read something for me.
sapperstein		Carrie Stetko.
carrie		Keep reading.
sapperstein		United States Marshal.
carrie		Very good.  Now are you still sure you want to report the theft of an illegal narcotic?
6.		CONTINUED: 
sapperstein		Not this year, no.
carrie		Good. And how are you feeling right now?
sapperstein		You think I'm crazy? Is that what you're saying?
carrie		 No, no, not crazy. But this time of year, down here, we're all going a little toasty aren't we? How about you plant a little Cannabis when you get home?
7.		CONTINUED:
carrie		What do you think?  I know you weren't in the area. What's up?
murphy		I got a pilot at ASB who thinks he spotted a popsicle out on the ice.
carrie		What flavor?
murphy		Don't know.
carrie		And we were doing so well.  Where?
murphy		McClain Valley.
carrie		McClain Valley? What was he doing out there? That's no man's land.
murphy		I've got a plane heading to ASB in an hour with some supplies for Winter-over.  Can't get you back until tomorrow.
8.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		No -- just the picture.
carrie		Bottom of the frickin' planet.
carrie		Doc?
keller		Well, hello Marshal.
10.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Keller.
keller		Out back.   What are you doing here?
carrie		Checking the freezer for a popsicle.
keller		No shit?
carrie		It got called in this morning.
keller		Who spotted it?
carrie		Delfy, one of the pilots here.
keller		It's his first year down here. You know how that goes. My bet it was just debris, an old tent or something.
carrie		Yeah -- probably.
keller		Here's an idea -- why don't you stay here with me and we'll party, just the two of us. Put those cuffs of yours to work.
carrie		...Were you the second guy from the front?
keller		Yeah.
carrie		Not interested. 
11.		CONTINUED: 
rhonda		I'll have them boomerang back and pick up the load -- just have it ready.
tech		Guys got the science lab all shut down.
rhonda		Good, have them check all the pressure levels on the hydraulics, then clear the exterior storage bins. Make sure we're not leaving anything out there.
carrie		Fine. I need a plane and that pilot who saw the popsicle.
rhonda		I'll have him meet you in the hangar.
12.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Yeah, good.
doc		In less than three days we begin Winter-over. The sky will go completely black and stay that way for six months.
asian		T... T... Three minutes.
13.		CONTINUED:
doc		Your core body temperatures have fallen to approximately 97 degrees. You are shivering uncontrollably -- losing basic motor skills. You're having trouble focusing on even the simplest tasks. In short, you are well on your way to dying, and it has only been two-hundred seconds.  Put your coats on.
class		Hello Marshal Stetko.
doc		Always a pleasure to see you. Unlike most of the beaker-heads down here.  Social visit?
carrie		I wish -- We got a job. I need you to take a ride with me. 
14.		CONTINUED:  Might be a body out on the ice.
doc		Why's this crap always happen at the end of the season?
carrie		So it is.
doc		What's your gut say about this body?
carrie		My gut and I don't talk anymore.
doc		People change, Carrie.
carrie		Not you.
15.		CONTINUED:
doc		I got a card from my Granddaughter inviting me to her fifth birthday party. You know, I've never even met her.
carrie		Or mentioned her. A grandchild? Doc, that's great.
doc		It got me thinking -- I need to be a better Grandfather, than I was a father. It's time I deal with my life. I've been down here a lot longer than I probably should have.
carrie		You Delfy?
delfy		Yes, ma'am.
doc		Where the hell they get these thumb-suckers?
delfy		Brooklyn. And unless your wrinkled ass has a heart attack on my plane, I think we'll be all right.
doc		-- I want Keller. He's my pilot.  Keller, get over here!
carrie		Delfy's taking us, Doc. He's the one who saw the body. C'mon, you'll be fine. I'll even hold your hand if you want. 
16.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		What were you doing out there?
delfy		I went to evac a camp. Had to fly off route to get around a storm. Got down low to avoid some turbulence, and there it was.
carrie		That your son?
delfy		Yeah, name's Nathan.
carrie		He's cute.   Has your eyes.
delfy		Lucky he got his momma's brain. Kid's smart.
carrie		So why aren't you with him?
delfy		The bonus pay. Trying to buy a house. Give my boy a yard. His own room. Stuff I never had.
17.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Hate it.
delfy		Then why are you down here?
carrie		We all make stupid mistakes.
delfy		It's right up here.
carrie		Yeah. Got it.      It's a popsicle alright.
18.		CONTINUED:
doc		... It's always different when they freeze. Some curl up. Some stretch out. Some tear their clothes off. They get delirious. What was that guy's name?
carrie		Linger.
doc		Yeah. He's lost in a storm. We can't find him, but we hear him on the radio going on and on about the Serengeti heat and his wife, Janet. Next day, we find him frozen solid, wearing nothing but his bunny boots.
delfy		Jesus.
doc		Never seen a dead guy?
carrie		So do you. Think his name's Weiss. We Wintered-over last year with him. Played cards a couple of times.
doc		The guy who cheated?
carrie		Yeah.    Geologist, I think.
19.		CONTINUED: 
doc		Damn --
carrie		Then where's his crampons -- his gear?
doc		Maybe down the crevasse?
carrie		Yeah, maybe --
delfy		Brits -- about eighty miles west.
carrie		 What the hell where you doing all the way out here?
doc		Ah Christ -- he's a sticker.
carrie		You going to be alright?
delfy		No -- this is the kind of stuff that scars you for life.
doc		Gonna give myself a Goddamn hernia.
carrie		Oh yeah -- I'm really going to miss this place.
21.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Who manages the Post Stations?
rhonda		Dinkle.   Howard Dinkle.
doc		Carrie, let's just bag him and put him on a plane to McMurdo.
carrie		It bothers me no one's reported him missing yet.
doc		Because maybe no one thinks he is.
carrie		How'd he get out there?    There were no tracks.
doc		Sounds to me like you and your gut are talking again. 
22.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Nobody wants to get out of here more than I do, trust me, but right now -- we're all this guy has.
carrie		Grab that side.
doc		Stirring up a few things?
23.		CONTINUED:
carrie		...I'll be alright.
doc		You know, this means a Federal Investigation, and we're witnesses. We may get stuck here.
carrie		I know.
doc		We both want to do the right thing Carrie -- but we also need to get off the ice. Right now we don't have to say a word. When they find something later -- hey, we didn't know. We were leaving, the body was frozen, we didn't have time to examine it. No one gets murdered in Antarctica. Think about it. Dead is dead.
carrie		Exactly, this is the first murder in Antarctica, Doc -- and I can't just pretend it didn't happen.  I'm sorry.
doc		Why did I know you were going to say that?
carrie		I'm on my way to find out.
carrie		I'm sure his family's thinking the same thing.
25.		CONTINUED:
carrie		I hate interrupting educational programming, but --
last guy		Marshal.
carrie		Chaplain.
dinkle		Am I in some kind of trouble?
carrie		What are they doing out there?
26.		CONTINUED:
dinkle		Collecting meteorites.  One One has an extremely old surface with low sediment deposition.
carrie		English, please.
dinkle		Means it's a good place to look for meteorites.  It's right here.
carrie		I don't get it -- Weiss was no where near Delta One One.
dinkle		One sec --
carrie		Isn't that a little unusual this close to Winter-over?
dinkle		Yes, it is. Really unusual, actually.  I guess I should've contacted them, but --
27.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		-- You've been a little busy. Yeah, I can see that.
dinkle		Seventeen.
carrie		 Delta One One, this is United States Marshall Carrie Stetko, come back, over.
carrie		Vostok?  Patch it through.
28.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		This is Marshal Stetko, who's this?
carrie		Mooney?
carrie		What happened out there, Mooney?
carrie		Where's Rubin?
carrie		Getting drunk already?
doc		Just gearing my liver up in case I have to stay the next six months.
carrie		Murphy's contacting the Feds.
doc		You're making my day. 
29.		CONTINUED:
carrie		I'll do everything I can to get you off this ice, promise.
doc		I know you will.  What's the hurry?
carrie		Going to Vostok.
doc		What's he doing in Russia?
rhonda		We're tracking it now.
carrie		I need a plane to Vostok.
rhonda		 I don't control the weather -- you want to stay the winter, then don't be ready for your evac.
30.		CONTINUED:
carrie		I'm not asking.
rhonda		What am I supposed to tell the deep drill ice core team getting picked up in four and a half?
carrie		Tell them I took their plane.
delfy		 What's with this place?
carrie		The Russians barely supply Vostok anymore. They have to barter with other bases for supplies. Some of these guys have been rotting here for years.
carrie		Who's in charge?
yuri		 Who's asking?
carrie		Stetko, US Marshal. I'm here to talk to an American named Mooney.
yuri		So many people come through Vostok. Is hard to remember.
carrie		I figured.
yuri		Mister Mooney, yes. I remember now. He offers pay us to fly him off Antarctica on our transport. We give him very good price - because plane leaves a week ago!
carrie		Where is he?
32.		CONTINUED:
yuri		Red storm line.
delfy		You don't carry a gun?
carrie		Against the law -- Antarctica's the only place in the world you can't have one. Part of the Treaty.
delfy		Doesn't that make you feel kind of naked?
carrie		All this crap on -- I prefer naked.
delfy		Gettin' worse. Minus eighty-one. Wind at a hundred and ten knots.
carrie		Do you have to do that in front of me?
delfy		Give you a hand?
carrie		Sure.
33.		CONTINUED:
delfy		Ever been on a rope-line in a whiteout?
carrie		Nope. Thoughts?
delfy		Yeah, hold on tight.
carrie		 Mooney? Hello?
35.		CONTINUED:
carrie		...My God.
36.		CONTINUED:
37.		CONTINUED:
38.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Jack?
39.		CONTINUED:
carrie		What happened?
delfy		When   you didn't come back -- we went   looking for you. Found a dead   guy in the other building -- that   Mooney?
carrie		Yeah. Someone got to him before I did. Then went after me.  How long was I out?
delfy		A couple hours.
carrie		Thanks.
delfy		Whoever it was, could have flown out after the storm broke.
carrie		Let it go, Delfy.
delfy		Until I met you, I hadn't seen any dead people. Now I'm at two.
41.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Unless you want your head cracked, I wouldn't move.
man		Take it easy.
carrie		-- Let me see your hands.
man		Robert Pryce. I'm a United Nations observer for the Oceanic and Antarctic section. If you relax, I've got my ID.
carrie		Let's see it -- slowly.
pryce		You must be Stetko --
42.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		How do you know about Weiss?
pryce		FBI notified us. Your base commander called it in.
carrie		This is part of a crime scene.
pryce		I realize that, but considering the time constraints we're up against, let's be honest, taping and bagging everything isn't going to be an option.
carrie		I'll be sure to let the U.N. know if I find out anything.
pryce		You heading out to Delta One One?
carrie		Maybe.
pryce		I'll grab my bag.
carrie		Don't take this personally, but I don't need your help.
43.		CONTINUED: 
pryce		If they've been digging out there, that's a direct violation of the United Nations treaty. We think they were digging. That makes it my business.
carrie		You don't dig for meteorites.
pryce		And you don't get killed for them either. This is now a U.N. matter. I am within my rights to commandeer your pilot and plane if I have to.
delfy		He can, you know.
carrie		Fine. But this is my investigation, understand? If you obstruct it in any way, I will have you detained.
pryce		Fine.  Mind if I ask you a personal question?
carrie		No, but I have the feeling you're going to anyway.
pryce		Why do you smell like suntan lotion?
44.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Murphy, listen to me, it's got to be Rubin who tried to kill me. You have to shut down flights leaving ASB and McMurdo -- search for him.
carrie		Sam, I think these guys found something out there at the camp. I'm going to check it out. Until I find Rubin, no one leaves the ice. Not yet.
pryce		We ready?
carrie		Guess so.
45.		CONTINUED:
carrie		What time is it?
pryce		Two thirty.
carrie		A.M. or P.M.?
pryce		A.M.
carrie		Wonderful.  I'll take this one.
carrie		Rubin?
46.		CONTINUED: Uses the end of the flashlight to chip away a frozen blood sample from the pant leg. Puts it in the baggie.
pryce		Anything?
carrie		Someone's left leg took a hit, lost a lot of blood. What do you got?
pryce		Their daily work log.
delfy		Looks like my dad's old lawn mower.
pryce		It's ground penetrating radar.
carrie		Looks like they were surveying sections at a time.
pryce		Areas labeled?
carrie		Yeah --
47.		CONTINUED:
pryce		At Sections 101 and 102, they spent one day.
carrie		Looks like they hit some really big meteors.
pryce		How far?
carrie		About four miles.
pryce		Let's go see what they found.
carrie		I want to check something out first.
48.		CONTINUED:
delfy		I said "which way?"
carrie		North.
pryce		Hurt?
carrie		Yeah, a little.
pryce		How long have you been down here, Marshal?
49.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Almost two years.
pryce		What brought you to the ice?
carrie		 The excitement, mostly.
pryce		Everyone down here is running away from something.
carrie		Some shrink tell you that?
pryce		Yeah, and that I should call my mother more often
carrie		And do you?
pryce		Every Sunday.
carrie		Where do you plant your boots?
pryce		They got me working out of Christchurch, New Zealand. Beautiful country. But this -- crazy place to make a living.
carrie		I came down to fill in for a Marshal for six weeks before Winter-over. I met someone, decided to stay.
pryce		He give you that ring I saw? Tell you he was going to marry you?
carrie		No -- just gave me a headache. 
50.		CONTINUED:  I didn't see a ring on your finger.
pryce		Flattered that you even looked.
carrie		This is it.
delfy		There's nothing here.
carrie		Just stop.
pryce		You sure this is right?
carrie		Section 104.   These are the coordinates.
delfy		Maybe you wrote them down wrong.
carrie		This is shaved ice. 
51.		CONTINUED:
pryce		 Hold my legs!
carrie		I'm slipping!
pryce		Almost got you.
carrie		I'm losing my grip.
52.		CONTINUED: 
pryce		Carrie?    Can you hear me?
delfy		 Marshal?
delfy		Saw a rope in the Cat.
53.		CONTINUED: Twisted, and strewn with large containers scattered at odd angles -- victims of an intense IMPACT. The plane is pitched up at the nose, making their footing precarious.
carrie		Cargo plane, but I don't recognize it.
delfy		It's an Antanov-74. Russian made - - late fifties. No one's put these in the air for forty years.
carrie		Guess that makes three.
delfy		This isn't funny --
carrie		Where's Pryce?
carrie		What is that?
delfy		Vodka.
carrie		 Find what you're looking for?
pryce		Just answers.  Those are fuel tanks behind you. This plane was outfitted for long range capabilities.
carrie		And by the looks of that safe, must've been transporting something pretty important.
55.		CONTINUED: Part of it has been damaged by the crash and this weakness has been ruthlessly attacked by the previous intruders until they forced an opening. Discarded tools litter the floor.
pryce		They put some serious work into this.
carrie		Whoever got hurt, they dragged him out of here. There's blood all over the tunnel.
delfy		It's the Cat!
carrie		Go!
delfy		Sonofabitch!
56.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		No signal, you?
pryce		This isn't going to work, it's like digging through concrete with a spoon.  We're going to suffocate before we get out here.
carrie		How long do you figure we've got?
pryce		Three of us down here -- 12, 15 hours at the most.
delfy		No way. I'm not going out like this. No way.
57.		CONTINUED:
carrie		What about the Vodka -- we could make some torches, maybe melt the ice?
pryce		Fire will burn the O2 quicker.
carrie		What choice do we have?
delfy		Don't need my vote.
pryce		Hold these.
carrie		What're you doing? 
58.		CONTINUED: 
pryce		All these planes used to have bail- out hatches.
carrie		We came in through it.
delfy		It'd be on the ceiling in case of an ocean landing.
pryce		Found it!
carrie		Or, if the ice is too thick the blast will come right back at us.
pryce		We can be blown up, suffocate or freeze to death. Take your pick.
59.		CONTINUED: 
delfy		Hallelujah --
60.		CONTINUED: 
pryce		Delfy, help me with this.     We'll need to get up higher.
carrie		Don't move.
pryce		What's going on?
delfy		Yeah -- what're you doing?
carrie		Our friend here isn't who he says he is.
pryce		I've been authorized because of what's happened.
carrie		Stop lying to me --
pryce		Don't do this.
61.		CONTINUED: 
delfy		Man, the guy just saved our lives...
carrie		He was saving his own.   Do it.
pryce		CIA.
carrie		Have you got an ID for that too?
pryce		Listen to me -- Forty eight hours ago, we picked up chatter between someone down here and Tahir Soufian, a black market trader in New York. It was all about setting up a buy for cannisters found in an old Russian transport buried in the ice.
delfy		Damn, I knew that government eavesdropping was true.
pryce		There's been rumors for years that the Russians had a second base -- a secret weapons research facility under the ice that supposedly blew up in the late sixties -- nothing was ever confirmed. 
62.		CONTINUED:  The fact is, before the treaty in `72 they were strip mining all over the place down here -- we believe for uranium and other specialized minerals for weapon's use. It was the Cold War. No one knows half the things the Russian's were up to. This plane could be the link between rumor and truth. And if it is true, what's in those cannisters could be a prelude to another terrorist attack.
carrie		Why did you lie to me?
pryce		Look, the U.N. carries a lot of weight down here. Think about it - - if I had told you I was C.I.A., you would have been on the horn back to Washington in no time. This is a very sensitive matter. News travels fast down here, I don't have to tell you that.  Besides, I didn't know if I could trust you.
delfy		Keys are still in it!
63.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Plane could've gone anywhere. There's forty-six countries here all counting down to Winter-over. Rubin could just disappear in the mayhem.
carrie		Heading back. How many fly-ins to McMurdo in the last four hours?
carrie		 -- How many?
carrie		I need a list of names.
delfy		You think Rubin might try to leave out of McMurdo?
carrie		He knows I'm on his ass, so he might. Anything's possible. I want to eliminate his options.
64.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		Back at ASB --
pryce		 How long to get there?
delfy		When we get back to the plane, I'll get ya there in forty minutes.
pryce		 I'll scan a picture of him and get it to you. Meanwhile, contact every non-American base down here and put them on watch. He's got some plan to get these off the ice.
carrie		I know why Weiss was so far from Delta One One.
65.		CONTINUED:
pryce		You need to get that looked at.
carrie		I'll have the Doc take a peek when we're done.
dinkle		Murphy's looking for you.
carrie		Murphy?   What the hell is he doing HERE
dinkle		Came in on the evac.
carrie		I'm on 30 if you need me. Rubin's picture is in a file on my desk.
dinkle		Make sure I get that back. 
66.		CONTINUED:
pryce		Of course.
tech		It's packing winds of a hundred thirty knots.
murphy		Shit -- we've got to move up the evac.
rhonda		How much?
murphy		Six hours at least.
rhonda		Jesus, I got crew that's still not in.
murphy		Then get them in!
murphy		Where the hell have you been?
carrie		Buried under 2 tons of ice. You?
67.		CONTINUED:
murphy		Do me a favor, you find any more bodies, mind not parading them down the main corridor. I've got Newbies afraid to winterover, for Chirstsake. They want out on seats I don't have. And next time you want to take a Goddamn plane anywhere, you ask me.
carrie		Sure thing, Chief.
murphy		We don't have enough supplies for all of us to Winter-over if we get stuck down here.  And you wonder why it didn't work out between us.
carrie		It didn't work, Sam, because you couldn't keep your hands off every new woman who stepped foot on the ice down here. I was stupid enough to be one of them. Now if you could cut through your red tape for just one second, you would realize that someone's out there with six cannisters, possibly full of Uranium, and he wants to get it into the hands of some very bad people. And I'm trying to stop it -- so fuck asking you for shit, Sam.
murphy		This is ridic---
68.		CONTINUED:  Why don't you try helping her for a change?
carrie		You know what Doc, it's alright.
doc		I'm worried about you. Is it going to take another attempt on your life to get you to finally slow down?
carrie		You worry too much -- but it's what I like about you.
69.		CONTINUED:
doc		I striped him down to put him in a bodybag. There's only the puncture from the axe. No way, I would have noticed it. Why?
carrie		Then it's gotta be Rubin.  I don't know.
doc		Any word from the FBI?
carrie		There's no way they're gonna make it. Not with that storm coming in over the peninsula.
doc		Jesus, Carrie, how long did you let this go?
carrie		When did I go to Vostok?
doc		Feel that?
carrie		No.
doc		Now? 
70.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		 No way. Don't tell me that.
doc		The fingers are dead, Carrie. If I don't do it now, gangrene will set in. You'll lose your hand.
71.		CONTINUED:
pryce		I stopped by the clinic... Doc told me.
carrie		Pretty tough Marshal, huh?
72.		CONTINUED:
pryce		Got Rubin's face all over Antarctica, but nobody's seen him yet.
carrie		...You ever kill anyone?
pryce		...Unfortunately.
carrie		Anyone you ever trusted?
pryce		No.
carrie		I hadn't held a gun in my hand for over two years.  Wasn't supposed to need one down here.
pryce		What happened?
carrie		We were on a stakeout at a Holiday Inn in Miami, waiting for this buy to go down. I was excited, we'd been after this trafficker for a long time. Thought this bust would be my big chance to impress the brass. Anyway, guy's a no show. One hour went by, then two - - nothing. 
73.		CONTINUED:  Then Jack starting acting strange. Next thing I knew my face was being rammed into a mirror. My own partner was trying to kill me. Turns out the whole bust was a set up from the start. Jack was dirty, working with the guy we were after.
74.		CONTINUED: 
pryce		It's what the Russians used to transport weapons grade materials in. They match the dimensions inside the safe. We're looking for six of these.
carrie		These beakers where really in over their heads.
pryce		I better get this back to him. And we have to find Rubin.
carrie		Think you can you help me with these buttons, first?
pryce		Sure.
man		 ...You Stetko?
carrie		Who are you?
rubin		-- Did Mooney talk to you? I didn't hear from him -- he was supposed to call me after you talked.
carrie		Mooney's dead.
rubin		No...
carrie		And so's Weiss.
76.		CONTINUED:
rubin		And I'm next, I know it.
carrie		It's okay, you're safe, just put the knife down.
rubin		Weiss didn't want to go through with it. Oh God. How did we let this happen?
carrie		Rubin -- I need you to focus for me.
carrie		It's okay, he's a doctor, he can help you.
77.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		Rubin's here! He's on the run. Level one. White T-shirt. Jeans.
carrie		Rubin, wait!
carrie		Rubin -- I can help you!
79.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Door's jammed --
80.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Shit, Rubin doesn't have any gear on.
pryce		How long's he been out there?
carrie		Thirty seconds.
rubin		...Help me.
rubin		W..wa..wait.
rhonda		Sam!
83.		CONTINUED:
keller		I sh... sh... shoulda killed you at Vostok.
carrie		Where are the cannisters?
keller		Go to hell.
pryce		Wrong answer.
carrie		Help me drag him over here.
pryce		Who's Tahir selling it to -- what's the intended target?
84.		CONTINUED: 
keller		What're you doing, you crazy bitch?
carrie		Why did you kill those scientists, Keller? Was a four-way split too much for you?
keller		Fuck you.
carrie		Where is the uranium?
keller		 You have no idea what's going on here, do you?
pryce		Hit the sonofabitch again!
keller		The plane, they're in the fucking plane.
murphy		Have you completely lost your mind?
carrie		Let go of me.
85.		CONTINUED: 
keller		Find them yourself.
murphy		What the hell's going on?
carrie		The cannisters are on the plane.
murphy		Who the hell are you?
pryce		Name's Pryce.
carrie		He's with the UN. We have to search that plane now!
murphy		We don't have time. We'll just search it in Christchurch when it lands.
pryce		It's a twelve hour flight to Christchurch. Anything can happen in that time. Keller is here, so we know it's still on the ground. 
86.		CONTINUED:  Once that plane is in the air, we've as good as lost it. Just give us 10 minutes.
carrie		Sam, do what is right here.    Come on.
murphy		Do what you have to, but that plane takes off in one hour.
carrie		We'll need some help.
murphy		I'll send what I can.
pryce		It's clean.
carrie		Nothing. That bastard. What the hell are you up to, Keller?
pryce		I don't get it, why lie to us -- we have him either way. He's stuck here.
carrie		He's buying time.
carrie		Out of the way!
carrie		Shit!
pryce		He's got nowhere to go, nowhere to hide.
carrie		He won't try.    He's a goddamn pilot.
88.		CONTINUED:
89.		CONTINUED:
90.		CONTINUED: 
pryce		...I didn't see him.
carrie		No!    You stay awake!
carrie		Press here.    Hard. Hard or he will die!
delfy		It won't stop!
carrie		He's not going to be number four!
91.		CONTINUED:
pryce		 What are you doing?   Get Keller.
carrie		You're bleeding out. Freezing drops your pulse. We have to slow it down.  You hold on.
carrie		Keller got out. He hurt Pryce -- he's bleeding bad. Where's Doc?
carrie		Tell him to stay put, and I need your help getting Pryce there. We're at the hangar. I've got to stop Keller, he's got the cannisters.
92.		CONTINUED: 
93.		CONTINUED:
keller		Crazy bitch.
94.		CONTINUED:
murphy		Doc!
doc		Get him on the table!
delfy		I know, I know, he'll die!
doc		You, four units O-pos in the warmer. Second shelf, fridge.
95.		CONTINUED:
carrie		Keller hit him with an ice axe.
murphy		He get away?
carrie		No.
rhonda		Sam, it's Rhonda -- we gotta go. Now. MURPHY  I know.    I know.
murphy		Can you do this on the plane? It's your call, but I need to know now.
carrie		I'll stay with you --
murphy		 Grab the bodies and get them on the plane.
96.		CONTINUED:
doc		Leave the bodies -- you don't have time. Dead is dead.  Pick them up in six months. Go.
carrie		I'm sorry.
murphy		Leave'm.   Let's go.
carrie		Thanks.
murphy		Take care of yourself.
pryce		Hey --
carrie		Hey back.
pryce		You get him?
carrie		Um-hm.
pryce		 The cannisters?
carrie		Nope.
pryce		What did we miss? Think Keller cut and run without the stuff?
carrie		After all this, no way. Keller didn't have it on the plane because he's got it hidden somewhere.  Where would he hide something for six months. Somewhere he could be sure no one would ever look.
pryce		If he had made it out, he wouldn't have been crazy enough to come back for it.
98.		CONTINUED:
carrie		True -- what the hell was his plan...
pryce		We've got six months to figure it out.
doc		Eyes open -- that's always a good sign.
pryce		Hey, Doc -- thanks.
doc		Thank her -- if she hadn't slowed your bleeding.
carrie		Need any help?
doc		I'm good.
99.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		 Just thinking where it all began.
doc		Yeah, it's a damn shame, isn't it.
pryce		What is it?
carrie		Nothing -- I'll be right back.
100.		CONTINUED: Storage racks of frozen science samples line the three walls. Lying on the floor are the bodies of Mooney, Rubin, Weiss and Keller.
carrie		 Someplace no one would ever think to look.
101.		CONTINUED: 
carrie		And we thought it was nukes the whole time.
doc		Keller said he knew someone in the states who could move the diamonds for us. It was a hell of a lot of money.
carrie		How did you get wrapped up in thing, Doc?
doc		Weiss got hurt on the plane. They were afraid to move him, so Mooney called me. Keller and I flew out. But they couldn't get the safe open -- Keller found a way.
carrie		Then Weiss got cold feet. It got ugly, didn't it -- and Keller killed him at Delta One One. Everything went to hell after that, didn't it, Doc.
doc		Keller thought he could kill his way out of this whole thing.  If those idiots hadn't panicked, none of this would have happened.
carrie		Doc -- stop.
doc		I'll cut you in, Carrie. There's at least 5 million in diamonds in there. That can buy both of us a nice life back in the world. How many times have we both talked about having a fresh start. Well, this is it. Those beakers finding that plane was a sign. A sign telling me it was time to go back. Now I have something to go back for.
carrie		There is no granddaughter, is there? This was about greed, plain and simple.
doc		No one will ever know. It's just me and you. We can take care of Pryce.
carrie		Dead is dead, right?
doc		Yes, yes, now you're getting it.
carrie		What's happened to you? There are four people dead! Four! People we knew. Doc looks at her.   She's not sure if it's registering.
103.		CONTINUED:
doc		It's either ignore all of this or kill me -- and you and I, we're too good of friends for me to force you to make that choice.
carrie		Doc, your not thinking straight.
doc		Ya know, it's really warm. I'm gonna take a walk -- try and cool off.
carrie		Doc, please.
104.		CONTINUED: 
doc		Remember, Carrie -- freedom's just a sunrise away.
105.		CONTINUED:
pryce		How's the weather where you are?
carrie		Hot. But there's a gentle breeze. Fiji's beautiful this time of year.
pryce		Yeah, St. Barts ain't bad either.
carrie		Nah. Freedom's just a sunrise away.
****Dialogues from script :Who_s_Your_Daddy.txt****

christy		"Health Teacher Flunks Her Own Lesson!"  No WAY!  It's Miss Pratt, smoking a doobie!
christy		Just the guy I've been looking for.
ted		I've been looking for you, too.
christy		Wouldn't it be awesome if we were about to say the exact same thing?
ted		 From your lips, to God's ears.
christy		You go first.
christy		Well. The prom's coming up.
ted		Yeah?
christy		And I was wondering.
ted		Yeah?
christy		If you don't have...I mean...
ted		SHUT UP!  Are you serious? Of course I will...of course.
christy		You are the most wonderful guy in the whole wide world, and I love you madly, Teddy Nelson!
charlie		Come on, bro. Spare yourself the humiliation, the degradation...
ted		You and your pep talks.
charlie		Don't get me wrong. We can salivate over all the Christy Malones of our lives. Wishing we could devour them like melt-in-your-mouth filet mignon. But we're strictly hamburger guys. Ground chuck, sixty eight percent lean, is about the best we can hope for.
ted		I genuinely think she wants me. I feel a vibe.
charlie		That vibe is from your wrist, pal. You've been over-tenderizing your meat, again.
ted		See? Did you see that?
charlie		She smiles at everyone, Ted.  She's like a newborn with gas.
ted		Were you always this sick?
charlie		One thing for sure, Christy Malone ain't lookin THAT good naked.
ted		Someday, I'll find out.
charlie		You have a better chance of being hit by a Mack truck with a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip.
ted		I defy your hamburger theory of life, and all of the unfulfilled hopes and dreams it represents.
charlie		That's crazy talk.
ted		I defy any and all limits.
charlie		Don't do it, Ted. Don't do it.
ted		 Any time, any day, a man can completely reinvent himself.
charlie		I'm warning you. This is an official warning. Danger, Will Robinson, danger.
principal merkin		Oh, Miss Pratt, Miss Pratt! What were you thinking?  How could you be so careless?  "Exposing Hypocrisy in the Morons who Teach Us." That's the little bastard's motto!
miss pratt		 Principal Merkin, I realize we have to teach the children that recreational drugs are the devil's work, but that doesn't mean we don't dance with the Prince of Darkness ourselves, every now and again.
principal merkin		Ah, well, bravo!  That's just what we'll tell the school board.
julie		So, William Randolph. Your last big scoop contrasted the popularity of Rice Crispie Treats and chocolate Snickerdoodles at the annual bake sale.
ted		That's just one example. My reporting has made a difference.
julie		Let me guess: retail sales of little chocolate sprinkles have gone through the roof!
ted		The school dumpsters used to overflow to the point where the stench was unbearable. My award winning expos changed all that. The city added an extra weekday trash pick-up.
julie		Is it true? Is ignorance bliss?
ted		Look, I loved "Exposed!" and I hate it that you got busted. I know the school paper sucks in comparison, but it's really not THAT BAD.
julie		Don't even tell me you're hot for Miss Titty Pom Poms over there.
ted		Christy's a very talented journalist. I see a Pulitzer in her future.
julie		I didn't know they gave them for Best Lip Gloss Retention During a Blow Job.
ted		Me-ow.
julie		Go ahead. Ask her to the prom. Get it over with.
ted		I have absolutely no intention--
julie		--Do it. I triple-dog-dare you.
all students		WOULD YOU GO TO THE PROM WITH ME?!!!
christy		 Ted, have you lost your mind?
ted		You like me. I like you. I guess it's pretty obvious to everyone.
christy		I don't LIKE you. We're JUST FRIENDS.
ted		But that smile.
christy		Oh, Ted, DUH.  I smile at everyone since I got my braces off.
ted		So you'll think about it?
christy		You really don't get it, do you? I am genetically programmed to desire a big, buff, manly man who can defend and provide for me and my yet to be conceived offspring! It's, like, a caveman thing!
ted		So that's a maybe?
christy		The answer is NEVER, Ted, NEVER. Except maybe in your dreams.
ted		In my dreams.  Of course.  This is a dream.  This is only a dream.
julie		No, Ted.  This is an actual emergency.
julie		I tried to warn you, William Randolph. She's got stiletto heels hidden in those Keds.
ted		But you triple-dog-dared me.
julie		It was for your own good, in a twisted sort of publicly humiliating way.
charlie		One word, my friend. One word. MEATLOAF.
ted		There's gotta be more to life than meatloaf.
ted		If I never eat another bite of meat loaf again, it'll be too soon.
jimmy		Mom, Dad. Meatloaf has come to represent all that Ted hates about his mediocre life and the world we live in. He's what you'd call clinically bummed.
ted		Why can't we have pot roast or stroganoff or even a little London broil? I mean, for god's sake, we own a grocery store!
dad		We heard about Christy, son.
ted		What is this? Does everybody know everything I'm about to say or do every freakin' minute of the day?
mom		No cursing in this house, young man. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you.
ted		I don't have a shred of privacy in this whole stupid town!
dad		We understand your disappointment, Teddy. Christy is a pretty, sexy, provocative, voluptuous...  We...uh...we understand your disappointment.
ted		It's my private business! Mine!
mom		Can the tantrum, sweet pea. We're the good guys, remember?
jimmy		Mom, Dad. Don't allow this disturbing behavior to furrow your collective brow. Ted's just experiencing some post-adolescent turmoil, coming to terms with the whole "small town dynamic."
ted		I hate Xenia! I hate my life!
ted		Whoa! Sorry, mister.
zukerman		In a hurry, are we?
ted		I was in the middle of a melodramatic exit. It wouldn't really make a statement if I tiptoed out the door...What are you selling?
zukerman		Bad news.
ted		People pay good money for that?
zukerman		I'm just a messenger.
ted		Oh no. No way. I've had all the bad news I can take for one day.
zukerman		It's about your parents.
ted		My parents? What do you mean?
zukerman		I'm terrible at this. I blurt. I'm a blurter. Your parents...They ...well...they exist no further.  Skinny-dipping. The Amazon. Piranhas. It wasn't pretty.
ted		You've got the wrong guy. The closest my parents have been to the Amazon is the Brazilian pavilion at Epcot.
zukerman		Well kid, I'm speaking of...your biological parents.
zukerman		The will reading is next Tuesday. Naturally all of Ted's expenses will be taken care of.
mom		We have a truckload of strawberries arriving on Tuesday morning.
dad		 We own a small family grocery store.
zukerman		How quaint.
ted		 It's spring break. I don't want to go to a will reading.
mom		That's part of growing up, honey.
ted		What? Having spring break ruined by will readings?
dad		You know what your mother means.
zukerman		All right, I can give you two tickets, prepaid, but you must be there. There's no other way.
jimmy		Mom, Dad. Allow me to accompany Ted. I can assure you, I'll be the level-headed sidekick to your angst ridden teen.
dad		I think Ted should take someone older, more responsible.
mom		What about Charlie?  You boys could make it a little adventure.
ted		Charlie, at a will reading? What did I do to deserve this?
dad		I remember spring break of my senior year.  Seems like a lifetime ago.
ted		Dad, please.
dad		Grandpa was so strong back then. Working from the crack of dawn. So proud of his peaches.
ted		Remember how you struggled through that whole facts of life talk and then found out I knew more than you?
dad		You're way ahead of me again?
ted		 It was the year of the rhizopus rot. Grandpa almost lost the farm. You sacrificed your dream to go to the prize hog festival. And in the end you saved the peaches and you didn't have to slaughter your sow.
dad		The lesson being?
ted		Sometimes you have to do stuff you don't want to do. It's all part of growing up. And it usually works out peachy in the end.
dad		I'm getting so good at this.
ted		You guys are my parents.
dad		Of course we are.
ted		They didn't want me when I was born. Why should I care...
dad		Son.
ted		Well, why should I?
dad		They had a rough life. Your father was a bouncer. Your mother was, well, a two-bit stripper. There was no place for a baby.
ted		I guess.
dad		They did do one great thing. They gave us our boy.
ted		Yeah.
dad		Be a sport. How bad could spring break in Los Angeles be?
ted		I guess we could go to Disneyland or something.
dad		Think of it as a rite of passage to manhood.
ted		Like one of those "National Geographic" specials with the topless chicks?
dad		Whatever helps you cope.
ted		I guess it's better than having tribal patterns carved in my face.
dad		There ya go. Always remember, focus on the peach...
ted		...not the pit.
dad		Always one step ahead of your dear old dad.
charlie		I wonder if this is what it feels like to be born?
ted		Poor Freud, turning in his grave.
charlie		Seriously, it's like we're being reborn. We really could reinvent ourselves here, just like you said. Nobody knows about your massive humiliation.
ted		Nobody knows about your mental retardation.
charlie		Nobody knows you barfed during junior high school graduation.
ted		Nobody knows about your constant masturbation.
charlie		And nobody knows you're a virgin!  Aw, who are we kidding...
ted		I think I'll reinvent a new best friend.
charlie		What are the odds of there being ANOTHER Ted Nelson on our flight?
ted		Astronomical.
chauffeur		I'm so terribly sorry for your loss. Your father was a great man.
charlie		Who the hell was your father?
ted		Well, Dad said...
charlie		...A bouncer? Are you serious?
ted		Maybe he got promoted.
charlie		 This is the life, baby. We get ourselves some tail and we're talking SPRING BREAK!
ted		Cut it out, before you break something!
charlie		For a guy about to try his first Dom Perignon, you are extremely uptight.
ted		We can't afford that!
charlie		Don't you know anything about limo etiquette? Everything in here is included for our pleasure.
ted		Wait a second, I thought we were hamburger guys.
charlie		And like every hamburger guy knows, when you get your one big chance at the good life, you abuse every second of it until they figure out you don't belong there and kick your sorry ass out.
ted		Nice. Is that in the limo etiquette handbook, too?
charlie		This is how the other half lives, bro. Enjoy it while you can.
charlie		 Something tells me we're not in Xenia anymore, Toto.
charlie		I'm Charles. The handsome, devoted best friend. We're so close, we feel each other's pain.
helen		Oh my, he would have been so proud. You're the spitting image of him.
charlie		He never spits, ma'am. Ever. He can't even get a good hocker going. I've tried to teach him. It comes from the diaphragm.
ted		 You're on the next plane home.
helen		 I'm Helen McDole.  Your father's executive secretary.
zukerman		We're running out of time. The kid's here. We don't need HIM.
helen		Perhaps we could be patient for just a moment or two longer?
zukerman		What did the doctor say to the nurse as they watched something black and white and red in a blender?  No more patients.
ted		I'm seventeen. I know it like the back of my hand.
zukerman		Your fathered owned the entire "Heaven" empire.  You own it now. Any questions?
charlie		Everything?  The publishing division, the real estate holdings, the retail outlets, the theme parks?
zukerman		As far as the eye can see.
heather		Oh, sweetheart! We wish we could be right there to hug the living daylights out of you!
tom		But if you're watching this, then it means we bit the dust.
heather		But don't worry...we'll be in heaven. The REAL heaven, I mean. Not that heaven is an actual place, but more like a state of being. Or not being. Who knows. Maybe we know now.
tom		If you're anything like yours truly, then you probably figure we didn't want you when you were born, so who cares if we're dead? Am I right?
heather		But we did want you. It's just that you don't always get to keep what you want. We knew you needed a real mom and dad.
tom		We had no idea the nudie magazine we started in the garage would turn into all this.
heather		Can you believe that was me?
tom		Before we knew it, we created the most popular men's magazine in the entire nation. The rest is history.
heather		So here we are. Dead. But we never want you to want for anything. That is, we want you to have everything.
tom		Everything.
heather		We love you, Ted. We always did. We always will.
charlie		I can't believe that's your mother. We're talking babe-a-licious chub fest, right here in the 501's.
ted		Perv.
uncle billy		I'm so terribly sorry.  Am I too late?
zukerman		Ah, Mr. Deeds. You're just in time to congratulate your nephew. He inherited the empire.
uncle billy		 Every morsel of it?
zukerman		It would appear so.
uncle billy		Smashing!  Welcome to the family, Ted. You are going to breathe some new life into this place. You are going to set the world on fire! You are going to...call me Uncle Billy? Please?
ted		 Uh, sure. Uncle Billy.
uncle billy		I have only one concern...
ted		Of course I like girls.
uncle billy		A lot? I mean, a whole lot?
ted		As much as possible.
uncle billy		You're sure?
charlie		 He likes them with the unbridled enthusiasm of a seventeen-year-old virgin who's been making mental beef jerky since he saw the bevy of tender young skirt steaks at his new hacienda.
uncle billy		That's my boy!
uncle billy		The parties are held in here when the weather dips below seventy. Which is seldom.
ted		Seldom? No kidding?
charlie		You said parties but you meant ORGIES, right?  Stick with me. I know their codes.
uncle billy		The orgies, exactly. Take a deep breath. You can smell it. Pure sexuality, oozing from the walls.
charlie		Naked girls, wild sex, video games. No wonder it's called "Heaven."
uncle billy		This is a fun place...but we don't usually come here until after the orgies.
ted		 Ah, in other words, this is the apres-orgy salon?
uncle billy		Indeed it is. During the day, visitors prefer to be outside, au naturel. As it were.
uncle billy		Hello, girls! Have you met Ted?
charlie		This is like my every wet dream come true.  I don't even care that you're here, too, bro.
ted		Be cool. Fake it if you have to.
uncle billy		Good advice, Ted. You have your father's instincts.
charlie		I wonder how many of them will be at the orgy tonight?
ted		This isn't some 80's porno film, you dip shit. There are no wild sex orgies.
charlie		Oh. Well. Maybe not yet.
ted		Not ever. Never.
uncle billy		Never say never.
charlie		Oh, god.  Look. Look.
uncle billy		Maybe she needs help, Ted. You should be a gentleman.
ted		 I...uh...I think she's doing fine on her own.
charlie		 Oh baby, yes, yes, yes. Fuck me like you mean it.
ted		You kiss your mother with that mouth?
charlie		I'd kiss your mother with this mouth. I mean, if she wasn't, you know...
ted		So far away? In Xenia?
charlie		Yeah, whatever.
mom		Teddy? Is that you?
ted		I'm all right, Mom. I'm not in Siberia, you know.
mom		Did you have a nice flight?  Are they taking good care of you?
ted		Yeah, I'm doing fine.  I have so much to tell you.  I don't even know where to begin.
mom		Save it, honey.  We want to hear every detail when you get back, but we don't want you to run up Mr. Zukerman's phone bill.
ted		It's okay, Mom.  Trust me.
dad		Ted, it's your dad.  I have a question for you.  I don't know how to put it tactfully. You know I'm lousy with words.
ted		Just say it, Dad.
dad		I know they were simple people, but did this trip help your college fund at all?
ted		Dad, let's just say I can buy anything I want in the whole bookstore. Including the bookstore.
dad		 Well, good. Every little bit helps.
charlie		Check this out.  Hurry!
ted		I better go, Dad.
dad		We'll see you soon.  Have fun in...  ...the land of fruits and nuts.
charlie		Hurry.
ted		 What is it now?
charlie		Check it out!
ted		Don't tell me.  Another vision of incomparable beauty?
charlie		Beauty? No. We're talking GODDESS.
ted		I get it now. You and me. We're dead.
charlie		Dead?
ted		Our plane crashed. In the Grand Canyon. A big fiery explosion. We never made it to L.A. They needed dental records to identify us. And this place. This. Actually. Is. Heaven.
charlie		Then there must be a whole room, made completely of chocolate.
ted		And some really fast cars.
charlie		Don't be such a pansy. All of this is YOURS.
ted		It's a lot to digest. Imagine how you'd feel.
charlie		I'd feel like staying up all night! Forever! Or at least till I got the LAY of the land, SO TO SPEAK.
ted		I feel like I'm entering a forbidden tomb...
charlie		...where they get all the really good porno channels on cable.
ted		Oh, how inappropriate is that!
charlie		Take a whiff of heaven.
ted		How would you like it if I did that to your mother's panties?
charlie		I'd call you a sick, twisted fuck. But this is different.  She wasn't your mother mother--
ted		Give me those!
butler		I do apologize, sir. I heard a noise.
ted		We were just--
butler		--I completely understand, sir. I'll leave you to your business. Good night.
charlie		A couple of boys fighting over a pair of red silk panties is nothing compared to what he's seen.
ted		 Yeah, he's probably been serving cocktails, SO TO SPEAK, at the orgies.
ted		I-I don't have the keys.
ginger		They're in the ignition, silly.
ted		I don't have much experience with a...uh...stick.
ginger		Want a lesson?
ted		Got it.
ginger		Now very carefully apply some pressure to the gas pedal with your right foot as you release the clutch with your left.
ginger		The first time can be awkward. You just have to get on and try again.
ted		I don't even know if I should be doing this. It's a very expensive car.
ginger		It's your car. These are all your cars.
ted		Some of them have to be automatics.
ginger		Your father liked shifting. He said it brought him closer to the engine. "Like a woman, purring with ecstasy."
ted		I'm Ted, by the way. I think I forgot to say that.
ginger		I know.  I'm Ginger. Miss April.
ted		The one with the horses.
ginger		That's me.
ted		I almost didn't recognize you without...you know...that stallion between...your...uh...legs.
ginger		Hey, Ted. Wanna go shopping?
ted		Shopping, really? I should tell my friend.
ginger		Don't worry.  He found the chocolate room.
ted		 Hi ho, Silver.
ginger		Your father always said, "Money matters only to the man who doesn't have it."
ted		Sorry, habit.
ginger		Who exactly ARE you?
ted		 What do you mean? I'm Ted Nelson.
ginger		And who IS Ted Nelson?
ted		I always knew there was more. I felt it.
ginger		Then remember, you are the heir to a billion dollar empire. You have a staff of literally thousands. Multiply everything you ever imagined by a million and you still can't even wrap your head around everything that is yours. ALL YOURS.
ted		I'll take the whole case.
uncle billy		Every one of these women thinks she should be the next Angel of the Month. It's your job, Ted, to decide which of them is right.
charlie		Let me get this straight...
uncle billy		If it isn't straight by now, son, you probably should see a doctor.
charlie		These are real, live women?
uncle billy		 We don't generally feature blow-up dolls in our magazine. But hey, if you think there's a market for it.
charlie		God, I love being dead.
ted		I like her.
helen		 Nice choice. There's only one problem.
uncle billy		You think she upgraded?
helen		They went in through the belly button.
uncle billy		We don't allow TIPN, Ted.
ted		Tipping?
helen		TIPN. Tattoos, implants, piercings, nose jobs. Our angels must be pure, unadultered, completely natural.
uncle billy		There you are, Ted-baby. Everything all right?
ted		Yeah.  Everything's cool.
uncle billy		You ready for your big coming out party? Everybody's dying to meet you.
ted		Just a couple of finishing touches. My parents always said you never get a second chance to make a good first impression.
uncle billy		 Oh, your parents. The Nelson's. Right, right. How midwest. I like that.
ted		Truth is, I'm a little nervous.
uncle billy		YOU? Nervous? Why on earth should you be nervous?
ted		All those people out there. It's a lot of pressure.
uncle billy		Huh! You laugh in the face of pressure!
ted		I do?
uncle billy		You are a multi-media magnate. The Tycoon of Tits. The Baron of Bottoms.
uncle billy		You're the Sultan of Semen. The Monarch of Masturbation. The Merchant Prince of Lust. You. Ted. Are the King of Coitus.
ted		Me? The King of Coitus?
uncle billy		The Supreme Sovereign of Sexuality.
ted		Whoa. But...that's the thing...  I've never even actually...
uncle billy		 Why, look who's here.
ted		 The Potentate of Poon has arrived.
charlie		Ain't life amazing? A week ago, you couldn't get to second base!  Now you OWN second base!
uncle billy		I told you you could do it.
ted		I was like a different person tonight.
uncle billy		You were the new and improved you.
ted		I would have been laughed right out of Xenia.
uncle billy		No one will be laughing at you now, Ted. You can take that to the bank.
ted		It's really going to be strange going home in a couple of days.
uncle billy		You ARE home. But go ahead, finish school, do what you feel you need to do. In the meantime, I'll be your point person here on the magazine.
ted		Really? You'd do that for me?
uncle billy		I've been very lazy for a long, long time.
ted		You seem like you're anything but lazy, Uncle Billy.
uncle billy		 I never finished school myself. Never had to. My brother built this empire from nothing but his wife's perky tits and a whole lot of gumption. He gave me a cushy job on a silver platter. I never struggled for a second.
ted		My parents always say hard work builds character.
uncle billy		It's not like I didn't have ideas, I had plenty of ideas. But I never even shared them with your father. Never had the guts.
ted		What kind of ideas?
uncle billy		Well...for one thing...I think it's despicable that we exclude so many women that only fit our western notion of "classic beauty."
ted		You think we should be more open minded?
uncle billy		The world is a big, beautiful place.  We can open new markets in Africa and Asia.  Imagine the Dali Lhama reading our magazine.
ted		In other words, our scope is too narrow.
uncle billy		At our press conference tomorrow, I think we should announce our plans to explore the world. Not just a few leggy 36D's, with blond hair upstairs and down.
ted		That's perfect.
ginger		Want some company?
ted		 Who's your daddy?
uncle billy		...My brilliant, extraordinary nephew, Ted Nelson, has brought enough fresh blood to this company to make all of Transylvania happy for the next fifty or sixty years. I'll give him the mike now and you'll see what I mean. This apple didn't fall far from the tree.
ted		I'm Ted Nelson. I guess you already know that part.  For two years I've been the editor of the high school paper in Xenia, Ohio. I've won some awards, made a difference. I've always had journalism in my soul. Now I know why.
christy		He asked me to the prom! ME! We're practically engaged!
julie		He reinvented himself into a dick.
principal merkin		You don't even have your high school diploma yet, Mr. Nelson. I'm still the boss of you.
mom		 Our Teddy inherited "Heaven?"
dad		He said he was set for book money.
jimmy		Mom, Dad. Forget about roller blades for my birthday. I'd prefer a DNA test. Can you prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that I am not, for example, a Guccione?
entry way		Dad opens the front door to reveal a delivery man, holding a flashy new bike.
deliveryman		Delivery for Jimmy Nelson.
mom		My goodness, who sent this?
delivery man		It's from "Heaven," ma'am.
dad		Ted. Of course.
jimmy		 I love you, Ted!
mom		We can't accept it.  It's much too expensive. Right, dear?
dad		Of course, dumpling. Its very nice of Ted but...
dad		For me? What is it?
mom		Oh, no. Ted's gone completely overboard.
dad		I always wanted Craftsman tools. He even got me the limited edition Buckeye colors.
mom		Oh, honey. We can't accept this extravagance.
mom		Teddy? Is that you?
ted		Well? Surprised?
mom		What is all this? When are you coming home?
ted		Just a few tokens of my affection. I'll be back soon, don't worry.
mom		Everything is lovely, Ted, but much too expensive.
ted		Mom. Believe me. I could buy all that AND the factories they came from.
mom		Oh, good lord. Are those Neptunes?
ted		Only the best for my mother.
mom		 You promise you'll finish school?
ted		I'll make you very proud.
principal merkin		You cannot land a helicopter in my school yard! Get that blasted thing out of here!
julie		What gives, Don Corleone?
charlie		 We reinvented ourselves.
julie		New Hushpuppies don't make a new man.
charlie		You've obviously never had your dogs nestled in thousand dollar Italian loafers.
julie		That explains the emptiness that haunts me.
charlie		Jealousy is so unattractive.
julie		Second only to unfettered arrogance and the inability to see the irony therein.
charlie		Wanna see my hickey from Miss December?
principal merkin		I like you, Ted. You know that. I liked you before you were filthy rich.
ted		Thanks, Principal Merkin.
principal merkin		I'll be blunt. I know you can take it.
ted		Yes, sir. I'll brace myself.
principal merkin		Ted, you are the best editor this school paper ever had. You don't need to be pandering flesh. It's nonsense. It's beneath you.
ted		You think I ought to just tell them thanks but no thanks? I don't want your silly billion dollar empire?
principal merkin		That's a good start, yes. A very good start.
ted		Are you kidding? This magazine is my dream. It's every red-blooded, heterosexual male's dream.
principal merkin		I never figured you for a pimp.
ted		Have you ever even looked at "Heaven?"
principal merkin		What kind of sick question is that? I'll be watching you, young man. Your money and power mean nothing here. Nothing.
ted		I guess you won't be wanting that Rolex I sent you, then?
principal merkin		No. No, I won't. Thank you. For reminding me.
christy		Great jacket, Teddy Bear.
ted		 Yeah? You like?
christy		Makes your shoulders look so big and broad.
julie		A few billion bucks and suddenly he's Cro-Magnon Man of the Year.
ted		It's so nice to have FRIENDS like you, Christy.
julie		What is it, William Randolph? Your balls need scratching?
ted		Your article sucked.
julie		In what sense?
ted		In the sense that there is no "hidden agenda" behind a bake sale that raised five hundred dollars for seeing eye dogs.
julie		Ah ha! It was so well hidden, you didn't even know it was there.
ted		Come on, Julie. Don't screw up. You have some real talent.
julie		Just because someone died and made you king of the publishing world doesn't mean you're even one ounce smarter than you were a week ago.
ted		I'm trying to help.
julie		I'm still better than you. Nothing changed except the decimal point in your savings account.
ted		That's not ENTIRELY true.
julie		Oh, right. You're probably not a virgin anymore. But as far as being a hack, that much is status quo.
ted		What do you want from me? I'm trying to be fair. But I can't keep you on staff if you turn every PTA meeting into an Agent Orange cover up.
julie		Then I'll write about YOU.
ted		Me?
julie		"Local boy inherits more money than god." Call me crazy, but I smell human interest.
ted		 Really? You wanna write about me?
mom		Goodness...it's delicious. I've never tasted anything so tender.
dad		Beats the heck out of meatloaf.  Although your meatloaf is second to none, love muffin.
jimmy		Mom, Dad. My trembling taste buds have just been assailed by the bittersweet knowledge of all they've been missing these past nine years.
julie		No offense, Wolfgang Puck, but dead flesh is dead flesh. This just happens to be better than most dead flesh on the planet.
ted		Absolutely...heavenly.
chef		Why, thank you, sir. Thank you.
jimmy		Ted has bettered our lives to the point where I can no longer see myself as "the old Jimmy" I was but a day or two past. You may all call me James. From this moment forward.
ted		Finally, some gratitude.
dad		We're grateful, Ted. It's not that. Those Craftsman tools...they're a dream come true.
mom		Your Dad and I were raised with a certain work ethic, that's all.
dad		We can't start living like we're the Rockerfellers or something.
jimmy		Mom, Dad. The Rockerfellers are paupers compared to my favorite brother, Ted.
ted		You don't have to work another day in your lives.
mom		But how would we pay our bills?
dad		We just barely have enough for your college tuition, son.
ted		Don't you get it? In one day I earn more interest than the store's entire annual revenue.
mom		Oh. Goodness.
ted		You're free.  You can do anything you ever wanted to do!
mom		 Like what?
ted		Like take that trip to Buckingham Palace. Go deep sea fishing in the Gulf of Mexico. Now's your chance.
dad		But those are our dreams, son. We have to make them come true.
ted		Consider me your fairy godfather, except without the fairy part. No more mealy apples and bruised bananas, ever, for the rest of your lives.
mom		But who would run the store?
ted		Forget the store. Think big.
dad		Ted, we put a lot of love in our business.
mom		We wanted you and Jimmy to have it someday. Something real and honest.
dad		We love our lives just the way they are.
charlie		Call me Charlie. I'm a photographer for "Heaven" magazine. And a very cunning linguist.
ted		I have to admit, I always felt... different.
julie		Different how? Different like a dwarf at a basketball game? Or different like a lesbian in pumps?
ted		I don't get the distinction.
julie		Could everybody else tell you were different, or were you the only one who knew?
ted		I felt limited. I felt confined. I felt like I was suffocating.
julie		I see. So more like a tight rope walker who secretly wants to be a trapeze artist.
ted		I guess.
julie		Interesting.
flight attendant		Warm peanuts?
ted		No thanks. I prefer my penis at room temperature.
julie		She said peanuts, you cretin.
ted		You never know around here.
julie		Is this an gritty expos or a candy ass press release?
ted		Write what you want. Just try not to make it so obvious that you're crazy about me.
julie		 Life must be peachy on Planet Ted.
ted		Funny you should say "peachy."
julie		I did my homework. Your grandfather was a peach farmer.
ted		My adoptive grandfather. Who knows what my biological grandfather did.
julie		Undoubtedly an aristocratic bartender of some sort.
ted		Considering this is your first time on a private jet, on which you are interviewing the world's most eligible bachelor,  you are extremely cavalier.
julie		I bet there are lots and lots of mirrors on Planet Ted.
ted		See? You're impertinent, rude, sarcastic.
julie		And this is not my first time on a private jet, so quit acting like I'm Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm.
ted		A little respect would be nice, that's all.
julie		Money can't buy respect, Ted. Saying what you mean. Meaning what you say. Being an honorable person. That's how you earn respect.
ginger		Great jacket, Teddy. It makes your shoulders look so big and broad.
uncle billy		You do look smashing.
helen		Positively dashing.
charlie		Sharp as a mashed potato sandwich.
ginger		I have an idea! I'll be right back!
ted		Well? What do you think of her?
julie		You're so twitterpated you don't even see the miner's hat and the pickax.
ted		You're implying she's, what, a gold digger?
julie		Second only to unbridled, narcissistic conceit.
ted		 Why can't you be nice to me?
julie		You've got enough people kissing your ass.
ginger		Here you go, cutie patootie. Rich guys always wear flowers.
jay		How are the hometown folks treating you, back in Xenia?
ted		Well, Jay. They've been exceptionally supportive.
jay		Are they hitting you up for donations? Asking you to sponsor the local quilting bee?
ted		I'm no stranger to the notion of philanthropy. Andrew Carnegie has long been one of my idols.
jay		What about the future? You planning to rock the boat at all? Stir things up in "Heaven?"
ted		Matter of fact, Jay, my uncle and I are planning to rethink the magazine. To expand the traditional western notions of "beauty."
jay		I see, so you'd be open to little ladies from Pasadena, who want to show you their knickers?
ted		Matter of fact, Jay, I'm planning a pictorial focusing on the women of my hometown, "The Girls of Xenia." Just to show my appreciation.
julie		The Girls of Xenia? Jesus.
jay		Now you're talking. What did Andrew Carnegie ever do? Open a couple of libraries? BOR-ING.
principal merkin		Thank you, dear.
principal merkin		I know, dear.
principal merkin		 Thatta girl.
principal merkin		This, my friends, this is not "Heaven." This flesh rag is a one way ticket to hell! We must voice our outrage! To remain passive in the eye of the devil is like inviting him to a pot luck in your own backyard and asking him to bring the three-bean salad!
mayor		Thank you for that long-winded but impassioned speech, Mr. Merkin. I hope you can cut to the chase, Ted.
ted		With all due respect to Merk, he doesn't have to read my magazine. But he has no right to stop others.  Ever hear of the First Amendment?
principal merkin		 We cannot afford free speech if it excises the moral fiber of this community!
ted		If that were true, this would be one seriously constipated town. Most guys in Xenia have been looking at naked girls in "Heaven" since they were old enough to figure out their dads hide it under the mattress.
julie		Isn't it true, Principal Merkin, that you only care now because "Heaven" is suddenly too close to home?
principal merkin		Indeed it is, Miss Conroy! I make no bones about it! "Heaven" has gone too far!
ted		I wouldn't want to name names, Mr. Needleman, or cause any undue embarrassment. But many members of this community have been loyal "Heaven" readers for the better part of the last two decades. Not to mention certain charter subscribers who have developed a voracious appetite for our video library as well. I don't suppose, "Courtney Leaves The Convent" rings a bell to anyone?
principal merkin		Mr. Nelson, you are Beelzebub's henchman! You are single-handedly destroying the integrity of our community, and I will not have it! I'll gather signatures. I'll petition the courts.
mayor		 You do what you have to do, Dick. But if there's a man among us who doesn't like to steal a look at some pretty titty once in a while, let him cast the first stone.
principal merkin		I. AM. THAT. MAN.
charlie		You're like a centerfold waiting to happen. And let me assure you, I have some serious pull with the publisher.
principal merkin		What the hell are you doing?
judy		I'm an adult. I can do whatever I want.
principal merkin		My roof, my rules, young lady.
charlie		Send us a picture, sugar.  We'll get back to you.
ted		 Hello there...Looking great...Very nice.
charlie		You're late, bro!
ted		Sorry. Ginger got a little, you know, enthusiastic.
charlie		You'll never believe who's in there.
ted		It better not be my Aunt Trudy.
ted		Sorry to keep you waiting...
christy		Hi, Teddy Bear.
ted		Christy?  You want to be in "Heaven?"
christy		I turned eighteen over spring break. I'm eligible.
ted		I feel like I've just been hit by a Mack truck.
charlie		With a refrigerated cargo bed full of sirloin tip.
uncle billy		So far, so good. Some of them have real Angel potential.
ted		Really? So I'm doing OK?
helen		We're impressed but not surprised, Ted. You have your father's impeccable judgment.
ted		My father must've been amazing.
uncle billy		He was in a league of his own.
dad		Sorry I--
ted		It's okay. You need me?
dad		 Your mom said you've been ignoring your chores.
ted		No problem, consider it done.  I had this idea of shooting on location. Outdoors, you know? Maybe at some famous Xenia landmarks. You think that would be a problem?
helen		We'll send you the release forms, Ted. Our staffers will help in any way they can.
uncle billy		You're the Titan of Tushies, the General of Jism.  Don't you forget it, Ted-baby.
mom		You have to understand. This was a big shock, for all of us. One minute you're our little boy, of whom we could not be more proud. The next minute you're the owner of this whole pornographic empire.
dad		But that doesn't make you the boss of everything, son.
mom		Don't you see how your self involvement and lack of humility are affecting the whole family?
ted		I paid off the mortgage! I ordered that Winnebago you always wanted! Now you're ashamed of me?
dad		You ordered a Winnebago?
mom		We're not ashamed of you, Teddy. We don't approve of the magazine or the models or the so-called "flesh parties" you attend. But we can get past all that.
dad		We miss you. We miss our son.
mom		We miss our family.
ted		I promised I'd finish high school and that's what I'm doing. What more do you want from me?
dad		We think you should give up the magazine. Sell it. Let someone else run it. Whatever it takes.
mom		We want you to go to college, find a career you love, marry a nice girl from a nice family, and live happily ever after.
ted		THAT is your dream, not mine. My dream is so far beyond anything YOU PEOPLE could even imagine.
dad		Watch your tone, mister.
ted		Why don't you just admit what this is really all about? I'm not your real kid and you can't control me anymore.
ginger		Teddy? I was thinking.
ted		Hmmm?
ginger		After graduation...maybe we could go away together?
ted		Whatever you want.
ginger		I bet St. Tropez in July would be paradise. For a honeymoon.
julie		Oops, sorry. Warning: You've got lipstick on your teeth.
ted		Wow...you clean up nice.
julie		Put your eyeballs back in your head, William Randolph. I'm on assignment. A girl has to fit in.
ginger		Teddy, I thought we were having a moment here.
ted		Of course we were.
principal merkin		I apologize for interrupting the festivities, but I have some good news. I've been reviewing the rules and regulations set forth by the superintendent of schools. And it seems quite clear...  "Minors may not be accompanied to school functions by adults unless they are their parents or legal guardians."
ted		Honestly, Merk. It's like you were never seventeen and the head of a media empire.
principal merkin		Rules are rules.
ted		Come on, it's our only senior prom.
principal merkin		Deaf ears, Mr. Nelson. I answer to a higher power.
charlie		Here's the deal, Merk.  Forget the "rules and regulations" malarkey and we'll give you seven minutes in heaven with the Taylor Triplets.
principal merkin		Out! Now!
ted		What's your price, Merk? How much will it cost to make you go bye bye?
principal merkin		You're crossing the line, Mr. Nelson.
ted		A statue in front of city hall, dedicated to Principal Dick Merkin?
principal merkin		I'm warning you.
ted		A new pediatric wing at the hospital? A presidential campaign? Name it. Anything.
principal merkin		That's it! You're out of here!
ginger		Ted! Do something!
ted		 What do you want me to do?
ginger		This is humiliating. We're being ejected from a prom!
ted		Hang in there, I'll think of something.
ginger		Well?
ted		I guess...I don't know...I guess we should leave if we're not wanted.
charlie		I hear you, bro. We're Angus men in a ground round town.
ginger		This is what I get for playing den mother in "Romper Room." Take me to the airport, Charlie!
charlie		Why don't you just hitch a ride on the horse you rode in on?
ted		I thought I loved her.
charlie		Chicks are like buses. If you miss one, don't sweat it. There's another coming 'round the corner.
ted		Everybody, listen up! This prom sucks!  Let's party at my place!
ted		Hell yes, all hundred and seventeen of 'em!
charlie		No, leave one. Somebody's grandmother might want one.
ted		And while you're at it, I'll take ten dozen of those puppies with the springy heads.
charlie		I love those springy head puppies!
ted		You kicked us off your turf, Merk. Don't rain on our parade.
principal merkin		Mr. Nelson, you disappoint me. First you break our school board rules. Then you break the law.
ted		What law, Merk? Having fun? Letting down our hair on prom night?
principal merkin		Our state has a zero tolerance policy for underage drinking.
ted		You called the cops on us?
principal merkin		Alcohol does horrible things to a developing young mind.
julie		Need a lift?
ted		I can't believe your dad built this for you.
julie		He didn't. He had it built.
ted		Whatever.
julie		Not "whatever."  It's two different things.
ted		He cared enough to want you to have it.
julie		He phoned it in.
ted		I see.
julie		I doubt it.
ted		Now it makes sense, the whole neo Bohemian, down with hypocrisy, fight the power crap. You're a poor little rich girl.
julie		The ozone must be fully depleted on Planet Ted.
ted		You think my dad would have been like that if I knew him? You think he would have bought me a stadium, instead of teaching me how to play ball?
julie		Your dad taught you everything.
ted		I mean my father.
julie		A father is nothing but sperm, Ted. It takes a real man to be a dad.
ted		It's all so complicated.
julie		It's incredibly simple.
ted		I feel like I'm being drawn and quartered. Like every part of me is being pushed and pulled and tugged in a different direction.
julie		Eventually you'll let go.
ted		And then what?
julie		Then you'll see who's really holding on to you.
ted		You're amazing.
julie		I know.
ted		Even when you infuriate me, I still want to kiss you.
julie		But you never do.
ted		If we were a team, we could do anything. I mean, anything.
julie		Cut to the chase, William Randolph. Your audience is way ahead of you.
ted		In a word: MERK. EXPOSED.
julie		That's two words. And I'm out of the "exposed" business, remember? I need to graduate. Besides, Merk's a boy scout.
ted		There's gotta be something. We have to dig deeper.
julie		You forget, I dislike YOU at least as much as him.
ted		He shut down your paper!  You're stuck writing articles about swap meets and raffles and PTA brunches!
julie		A good journalist can take lemons and make lemonade. I'm honing my craft.
ted		Then you won't mind covering that watermelon seed spitting contest next week...
julie		See what I mean. He's squeaky clean. He makes Gandhi look like a war monger.
ted		I have a great idea.  Let's lose the last button.
feminist		The city tower belongs to the city, not to some pornographer.
mayor		The library also belongs to the city.  And guess what?  It's going to have a new Ted Nelson wing with three thousand children's books.
principal merkin		You should be ashamed, young lady! Your body is a sacred temple!
molly		Don't bother, Merk! I'm already going to "Heaven!"
ted		 Get them together.
charlie		 Brilliant!  Molly, give me all you've got.  For Merk.
principal merkin		Stop that, stop that this instant!
ted		I never saw anybody turn so many shades of red.
uncle billy		I can't wait to see the pictures.
ted		It was incredible. The light, the crowd, everything.
uncle billy		Such enthusiasm. Have I told you lately how proud I am of you?
ted		Seriously? I'm doing all right?
uncle billy		You're taking this bull of an empire by the horns, but you're still keeping your small town values. You're not letting all this "stuff" spoil you.
ted		I owe it all to you. Without your help I'd be lost.
uncle billy		I wish I knew you years ago, when my brother was alive. I wish he never gave you up.
ted		Yeah, well, like my Grandpa used to say...you can't change your Christmas past, but you sure can exchange your Christmas presents.
uncle billy		Why don't you come to town this weekend? We could play some golf, chase some skirts.
ted		I'd love to, but I really need to crack the books.  Final exams are coming up and I've been slacking.
uncle billy		You're right. I should work, too. Our first issue together is almost ready to print.
ted		Thanks, Uncle Billy. Thanks for everything.
uncle billy		You're a great kid. Don't you forget it.
ted		James, what are you doing here?
jimmy		You can call me Jimmy again. Sheryl Petersen said James sounds too pretentious.
ted		Sheryl Petersen is, what, nine years old, what does she know?
jimmy		She knew exactly where you were staying, which you neglected to tell me, your own brother.
ted		It's really late...do your parents know where you are?
james		Mom and Dad think I'm tucked safely in bed and that's all they need to know. Will this discussion be continuing in the hallway, or somewhere slightly more inviting?
jimmy		Impressive. This is bigger than our whole house.
ted		Most places are, Jimmy.
jimmy		They say money can't buy happiness but this is a reasonably good facsimile.
ted		So, what brings you here at his hour?
jimmy		My new bike.
ted		Very funny.
jimmy		I came to ask permission to take custody of your room.
ted		My room?
jimmy		Better view, more spacious, new carpet. It's a no-brainer.
ted		It's not up to me.
jimmy		Mom and Dad said it's yours. They seem to think you're coming home.
ted		You can have it, then. I'm not going back there.
jimmy		If you could just sign right there.
ted		You want it in writing?
jimmy		Just a formality.
ted		That's it? I mean, you don't want to order room service or anything? We could play games and watch movies and stuff.
jimmy		Are you kidding? Mom and Dad discover I'm gone and I'll be doing hard time.
ted		Are they okay?
jimmy		Aside from the fact that Mom's eyes are nearly swollen shut from crying and Dad spends all his time under the car trying to fix stuff that isn't broken, things couldn't be better.
ted		I miss them, too.
jimmy		You can't come back. That is, you can, but your things will be in the room you currently think of as mine.
ted		You're a peach.
jimmy		Funny you should say that. My Grandfather was a peach farmer.
ted		He was my Grandfather, too.
jimmy		I meant biologically.
ted		That's a crappy thing to say.
jimmy		Look Ted. I'm cool with everything. You've long been dissatisfied with our mediocre little town. You've always had an itch for the good life. I'm happy for you. This couldn't happen to a nicer guy.
ted		I didn't forget.
jimmy		You ever look down on them again and call them "grocers" like it's a dirty word, and you'll be sucking your filet mignon through a straw for six to eight weeks. Got it?
ted		Loud and clear.
julie		Well? Where the hell are you?
ted		He's on the move?
julie		I got an anonymous tip and an address in Cincinnati.
ted		Let's do it.
ted		I don't know. This place seems pretty tame.
julie		You expected whips, chains, Merk being cattle-prodded by some dominatrix in a leather hood?
ted		At least it's not another 4-H meeting or a Big Brother barbecue.
julie		Amen to that.
ted		Look at us. It's one o'clock in the morning, on a school night. We're in a smoky nightclub, hoping to catch our principal with some big city tart.
julie		I'm trembling with excitement.
ted		That has more to do with your proximity to me.
julie		 My desire betrays me, like goosebumps on my flesh.
ted		I have a bit of a goosebump fetish. Not many people know that.
julie		I figured you for more of a hairy armpit guy.
ted		Shoes, if you want to know the truth. Shoes are my thing.
julie		Wearing them?  Or humping them?
ted		My fantasy is a totally naked woman, wearing nothing but a Timex and suede clogs.
julie		That's refreshingly deviant.
ted		What about you?
julie		I'm very aural.
ted		Tell me more.
julie		Sounds, voices, music, humming. All of it can turn me on, or off, like a switch.
ted		 I see.
julie		I had a Portuguese boyfriend who could read the phone book and melt me.
ted		 A Portuguese boyfriend. Sounds very "Cosmo."
julie		You live and learn. I realized the most important thing to me, above all, is trust.
ted		Turned out to be a scoundrel, eh? I saw that one coming.
julie		You lose trust in someone and it's over, done, gone, forever.
ted		Do you trust me, Julie?
julie		Not a chance.
ted		Come on.
julie		Trust is something you earn, over time. You don't just inherit it overnight like a gazillion dollar empire.
ted		I want you to trust me.
julie		Maybe someday.
ted		Julie, I'll tell you something that is the god's honest truth. I've seen a lot of really beautiful girls. I mean a lot. But none of them make me feel like you do.
julie		That's hard to believe.
ted		But absolutely true.
ted		We just found the ULTIMATE centerfold for "The Girls of Xenia!"
julie		I have to be honest with you, Ted. I really despise "The Girls of Xenia."
ted		I know, their small town mentality can be maddening.
julie		I mean your pictorial. It bothers me, profoundly.
ted		Aw Julie, it's my job. It's like being a doctor.
julie		You're telling me you don't get aroused by a roomful of naked breasts.
ted		You've seen one naked breast, you've seem them all.
julie		Which explains the continued success of "Heaven" for how many decades?
ted		You're quick. I like that.
julie		You think you're working with chimps here?
ted		The thing is, I made a commitment. I said I'd do it and I have to keep my word.
julie		Keeping your word is something I can actually respect, Ted.
christy		I thought I'd be nervous, but you sure know how to make a girl feel relaxed, Teddy Bear.
ted		I do? I mean, yeah, I do.
christy		I have to admit, I am so totally turned on. We should do it. Now.
ted		Do it?
christy		You know...take the pictures?
ted		I remember the first time you walked into Mrs. Temple's class in 2nd grade. Blue gingham dress. Blond ponytail.
christy		Which you pulled, hard!
ted		That was code for "I like you."
christy		Wanna unzip me?
ted		I miss those days, when schoolyard sexual harassment was without consequence.
christy		Things change. Now I'm taking off my clothes...all by myself.
ted		You have changed since second grade.
christy		I mean, what do you think?
ted		You expect me to think at a time like this? There isn't a drop of blood in my brain.
christy		Oh, Teddy Bear, you're funny.
ted		 God help me.
christy		I heard they do this on photo shoots.  Wanna to do the other one?
ted		You're doing just fine, Christy. Believe me.
chrity		Then I'm ready when you are.
christy		I was always too shy to admit how much I liked you.
ted		Come on, I was hamburger. You were porterhouse.
christy		Maybe on the outside. But inside, deep down, I've always been dripping with special sauces.  Are you hungry?
ted		God, you are so hot.
christy		Then you better get in the water, before you get burned.
ted		I'm sorry, Christy. I've been crazy about you forever, and this is definitely a page right out of my palm pilot, but I just can't go through with it.
christy		Sure you can. You're only human. It's not like you're made of steel.  Or ARE you?
julie		What's up, doc?
ted		Wait, Julie, wait!
janitor		I'm sorry, Mr. Ted. She pushed right past me.
ted		 At least let me explain!
julie		Go away, Ted. Just go.
ted		Please believe me. It was just a kiss for old time's sake. I've had a stupid crush on her since I was seven, but I never got closer to her than four feet and then there she was right in front of me, completely naked.
julie		Being naked is no big deal. It has nothing to do with emotion, nothing to do with love. You can be around all the naked girls you want and you won't be even one step closer to anything meaningful in your life.
ted		Yes?
charlie		Holy stinkers, what were you thinking?
ted		We wanted to challenge the notions of classic beauty. We wanted to showcase women throughout the world.
charlie		Next time, make sure you put a barf bag in the centerfold.
principal merkin		Ted, I realize I owe you an apology. You're destroying "Heaven" much faster from the inside than I ever could from the outside. Good job, son.
uncle billy		It was nothing more than beginner's folly. Tell everyone to lighten up.
helen		It's a little more serious than that, Bill. The stockholders have requested a meeting. They want our guarantee that this will never happen again.  Some of them are even calling for Ted's resignation.
ted		Look, the girls of Xenia are gorgeous, you'll see. Next month we'll be back to normal.
uncle billy		The kid came up with something that sounded good on paper. Who knew our readers wouldn't dig it?
uncle billy		Sometimes young people need to make their own mistakes. That's how they learn.
ted		 It won't happen again. It will never happen again.
ted		I always thought I wanted fame and fortune and beautiful women. But sometimes your dreams come true, and they cause you nothing but grief. I just want to chuck everything and sell the stupid magazine. It's not worth the pain.
helen		Come, let me show you something.
helen		Your parents never wanted to interfere with your life, Ted. They knew your Mom and Dad loved you very much. They knew they did the right thing. But that doesn't mean they didn't watch you and miss you, from afar.
ted		You mean they knew who I was?
helen		They kept this scrapbook of your life. It meant the world to them.
ted		I wondered about them, for so many years. I wondered if I looked like them, acted like them. I wondered why they gave me up.
helen		Giving you up was the most unselfish thing they ever did. When they founded "Heaven," they wished they could take you back but it was too late. All they could do was build the empire, knowing that someday it would all be yours.
ted		My legacy.
helen		Your parents would be crushed to think you weren't happy with it.
ted		They're not my parents, Helen. My parents are back in Xenia and I hurt them very much.
helen		I understand.
ted		And the girl I love, she hates "Heaven." If I keep it, she'll never respect me.
helen		But how can you respect yourself if you don't?
ted		Everything I am is because of you. Can you ever forgive me?
mom		 Oh, Teddy. We missed you so much.
dad		You were always our number one son.
jimmy		 Mom, Dad. This display of unconditional love is appalling.
mom		We are a FAMILY.
jimmy		A family, need I remind you, that HE ridiculed and left for dead.
ted		Shut your pie hole, Jimmy.
dad		I will not have my boys arguing.
jimmy		So, when I'm seventeen, can I turn everyone's life upside-down, behave like a total piece of canine excrement, and then wipe the slate clean with a half-baked apology and a Kodak moment?
jimmy		Which is precisely why I got the rights to my new room IN WRITING.
ted		 I need your help.  I'm really in deep shit.
mom		Don't say "shit," honey. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you.
dad		Besides, there's no problem too deep or too shitty for us to solve.
dad		Son, it's a simple fix. The only difference between my store and that magazine of yours is a bunch of zeros. Now, have I ever told you the story about the can of peaches?
uncle billy		Ladies, gentlemen. "Heaven" has gone to hell.
uncle billy		What are you doing?
ted		My job. Back off, Benedict.
uncle billy		All is fair in "Heaven," Ted-baby.
ted		That's right. And guess who's the new King of the Unemployment Line.
uncle billy		Aw, come on, kid. Throw me a bone. I'm your uncle for gosh sakes.
ted		"One can only hope that Ted Nelson will find bigger and better dreams upon which to set his sights as the years pass. And that he will remember, always, where he came from."
charlie		Page three.
julie		Not bad for a hack. He has a future in yellow journalism.
charlie		He kicked major ass and you know it.
dj		This one's for you Dick Merkin of Tecumseh High. From all your students. With hugs and kisses.
jimmy		Why so melancholy?
charlie		You were born naked, wet, and hungry. Now you're hip, handsome, and rich. You are the coxswain on the ship of life.
jimmy		Eat, Drink, and Screw Mary!
charlie		 I taught him that.
ted		Great.
jimmy		From my wise, albeit youthful, vantage point, the world is your oyster. You scored big.
charlie		You got everything you ever wanted.
ted		Except the girl. The only one that really mattered.
ted		Julie, wow. I was afraid you left. I was afraid I'd never see you again.
julie		I'm not going anywhere, Ted. You're the one with the champagne wishes and caviar dreams.
ted		I decided to let Helen run the magazine. I need to go to college, learn a few things, you know.
julie		Very ambitious. I like that.
ted		The thing is, I'll need a first mate.
julie		I know where you can find any number of naked girls who'd love to hop on board.
ted		Julie, you were right. All the naked girls in the world mean nothing. It's the one you want to cover up with your coat that you really love.
julie		Planet Ted. Five years from now. What's happening?
ted		I graduated from college. Did great, summa cum laude and all. And I'm about to launch a brand new magazine called "EXPOSED!"  An homage to Miss Julie Conroy of Xenia, Ohio.
julie		I know where you can find an excellent editor-in-chief.
ted		Yellow pages?
julie		Let your fingers do the walking.
ted		They're playing our song.  Dare I ask for this dance?
julie		 You better.
charlie		I'm a sucker for a happy ending.  Hold me.
billy		...with a two year subscription to "Heaven," you get a free underwater calculator.
****Dialogues from script :Wild_At_Heart.txt****

old woman		Oh my God! ... Why they doin that?
old man		Who the hell knows.  What you have in your mouth?
marietta		Hello...  Who is this?...
sailor		 ...Sailor Ripley...  Can I talk to Lula?
marietta		Theres no way in hell you can speak to her and...
sailor		 What?...
marietta		...Yes you heard me...  Dont ever call back here again.
lula		Mama???
marietta		You know who it was and you know you arent, and I mean ARE NOT gonna see him EVER...  End of story.
lula		 Like hell.
teenagers		EAT SHIT MOTHERFUCKERS!!!!!!
beany		I can dig this music...  But not that singer.
lula		Why?...  Hes right in the groove.
beany		Hes so ugly.  Guys with beards and beer guts aint quite my type.
lula		 Seeins how youre about as thick as a used string of unwaxed dental floss, dont know how you can criticize.
beany		Yeah, well, if he says that all that flab turns into dick at midnight, hes a liar.
beany		So, Sailors gettin out soon, and youre gonna see him?
lula		Meetin him at the gate.  That phone call this afternoon was the signal. My deranged mamas hid the keys to my car.  But of course, I know exactly where they are.
beany		I didnt hate me so much, Id feel better wishin you luck.
lula		Cant all husbands be perfect, and your Elmo probly wouldnta ever got that second one pregnant, you hadnt kicked his ass out.
beany		So youre gonna be needin the blue-bird pretty soon?
lula		Real soon ... Ill be makin the swap tomorrow, and thanks again, Beany.
marietta		Wheres Johnnie?  Hes not in his office.
bartender		Havent seen im yet today, Marietta.
marietta		 Well I gotta find him - right this minute!
lula		Hey baby...
sailor		Peanut...
sailor		Hey, my snakeskin jacket...  Thanks, baby...  Did I ever tell you that this here jacket for me is a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom?
lula		Bout fifty thousand times.  I got us a room at the Cape Fear, and guess what?...  I hear Powermads at The Hurricane.
sailor		 Stab it and steer.
lula		Did you ever think somethin like about the wicked witch of the east comin flyin in?...  Did you ever think somethin and then later think youve said it out loud to someone?
sailor		I really did miss your mind while I was out at Pee Dee, honey.  The rest of you, too, of course.  But the way your head works is Gods own private mystery.  What was it you was thinkin?
lula		Well, I was thinkin about smokin actually...  My mama smokes Marlboros now, used to be she smoked Kools? I stole em from her beginnin in about sixth grade.  When I got old enough to buy my own, I bought those. Now Ive just about settled on Mores, as you probably noticed?  Theyre longer.
sailor		I guess I started smokin when I was about six...  My mama was already dead from lung cancer...
lula		What brandd she smoke?
sailor		Camels, same as me...  Guess both my mama and my daddy died of smoke or alcohol related illness.
lula		Gee, Sailor.  Im sorry, honey.  I never would have guessed it.
sailor		Its okay.  I hardly used to see them anyway.  I didnt have much parental guiding.  The public defender kept sayin that at my parole hearin. He was a good ol boy, stood by me... Even brought me some cartons of cigarettes from time to time.
lula		Id stand by you, Sailor ... through anything.
sailor		Hell, peanut, you stuck with me after I planted Bob Ray Lemon.  A man cant ask for more than that.
lula		You move me, Sailor, you really do. You mark me the deepest.
sailor		Youre perfect for me, too.
lula		You remind me of my daddy, you know? Mama told me he liked skinny women whose breasts were just a bit too big for their bodies.  He had a long nose, too, like theirs.  Did I ever tell you how he died?
sailor		In a fire, as I recall.
lula		Started he couldnt remember things? Got real violent?  Mama kept tellin me it was on account of lead poisoning from cleanin the old paint off our house without usin a mask...  But I dont know.  Seems like his brain just fell apart in pieces.
clyde		FUCKIN BITCH!!!!
lula		Finally in the middle of the one night, with me and mama asleep upstairs ... he poured kerosene over himself and lit a match.
lula		 Near burned down the house.  We got out just in time.
lula		It was a year before I met you.
sailor		You have such a pretty, long neck, like a swan.
lula		Grandmama Pace had a long, smooth white neck.  It was like on a statue it was so white?
marietta		I knew this would happen.  Soon as that piece of filth got out of Pee Dee, I knew thered be trouble. Hes just got some kind of influence over her I cant decipher.  Theres somethin wild in Lula I dont know where it comes from.  You gotta find em, Johnnie.
johnnie		He served his time for what he did. Another thing...  If Lula went with him of her own volition - willingly, that is - there aint much can be done about it.
marietta		Dont talk down to me, Johnnie Farragut.  I know what volition means, and thats why I want Sailor Ripley off the planet!  Hes pure slime and its leakin all over my baby. Maybe you could push him into makin some kinda move and then kill him dead.  Youd only be defendin yourself, and with his record, nobodyd fuss.
johnnie		Ill locate Lula, Marietta, and if shes with the Ripley boy, Ill give him a talkin to and try to convince her to come back with me. Thats about all I can do.
marietta		Ill hire a hit man if you dont want to help me stop this thing.  Ill call Marcello Santos.
johnnie		Now, Marietta, I am goin to help you. And dont be gettin carried away. You dont want to be bringin Santos and his people into it.
marietta		Youre just jealous of Santos cause hes sweet on me.
johnnie		Darlin, you aint seein Santos again, are ya?
marietta		Oh, Johnnie Farragut...  Dont you trust your very own Marietta?
johnnie		Sorry, sweetheart.  Bein in love with you like I am brings out that ugly jealous side.
marietta		Well stop worryin about me and start worryin about how youre gonna get that Lula back here and away from that murderer.
johnnie		Sailor aint a murderer.  You got to get off that kick.  And fars I can tell, Sailor was entire clean prior to that involvin Lula.  Even there he was protectin her.  You oughta be thankin him for that.  That Bob Ray Lemon they say was comin after the both of em.  Why am I tellin you this, you was around that night. You ought to know just exactly what happened.  Sailor just got a little too forceful is all...  You remember that night...
marietta		Maybe I was there, but I didnt see anythin.  All I knows that trash killed a man with his bare hands. Hands which are now probly all over my baby!
johnnie		Marietta, settle down now darlin... I want whats best for her, too - Like I said, Ill do what I can to bring her home.
lula		Sailor, you are somethin else, honey...  When I was fifteen, Mama told me that pretty soon Id be startin to think about sex, and I should talk to her before I did anything about it.
sailor		But honey, I thought you told me your Uncle Pooch raped you when you was thirteen.
lula		Thats true.  Uncle Pooch wasnt really an uncle.  He was a business partner of my daddys?  And my mama never knew nothin about me and him - thats for damn sure.  His real name was somethin kind of European, like Pucinski.  But everyone just called him Pooch.  He came around the house sometimes when Daddy was away. I always figured he was sweet on mama, so when he cornered me one afternoon, I was surprised moren a little.
sailor		Howd it happen, peanut?  He just pull out the old toad and let it croak?
lula		Youre terrible crude sometimes, Sailor, you know?
sailor		I cant hardly understand you when you talk with one of them Mores in your mouth.
lula		I said you can be too crude sometimes? I dont think I care for it.
sailor		Sorry, sugar.  Go on and tell me how old Pooch done the deed.
lula		Well, mama was at the Busy Bee havin her hair dyed?  And I was alone in the house.
lula		 Uncle Pooch came in the side door through the porch, you know?  Where I was makin a jelly and banana sandwich?  I remember I had my hair in curlers cause I was goin that night with Vicki and Cherry Ann, the DeSoto sisters.  Uncle Pooch must have known nobody but me was home, cause he came right in and put both his hands on my butt and sorta shoved me up against the counter.
sailor		Didnt he say somethin?
lula		Not really.  Least not so I recall now.
sailor		So howd he finally nail you?  Right there in the kitchen?
lula		No, he picked me up.
lula		 He was short but powerful.  With hairy arms?  Anyway, he carried me into the maids dayroom which nobody used.  We did it there on an old bed.
sailor		We did it?  Whattaya mean?  Didnt he force you?
lula		Well, sure.  But he was super-gentle, you know?  I mean, he raped me and all, but I guess theres all different kinds of rapes.  I didnt exactly want him to do it but I suppose once it started, it didnt seem all that terrible.  It was over pretty quick, and after Uncle Pooch just stood there and pulled up his trousers and left me there.  I stayed in bed till I heard him drive off.  Then I just went back into the kitchen and finished makin my sandwich.
sailor		And you never told nobody about it?
lula		Just you.  Uncle Pooch never acted strange or different after.  And he never did anything else to me.  I always got a nice present from him at Christmas, like a coat or jewelry? 
lula		Uncle Pooch died in a car crash three years later while he was holidayin in Myrtle Beach.  They still got way too much traffic there for my taste... And another thing, baby...  That government of ours should be keepin us separated from outer space...
sailor		Here she goes again...
lula		Sailor, that ozone layer is disappearin.  Seems to me the government could do somethin about it.  One of these mornings the sunll come up and burn a hole clean through the planet like an X-Ray.
sailor		 That aint never will happen, honey. Least not in our lifetime.
sailor		You okay, honey?
lula		That womans laugh creeps me out. I heard somethin like that... somewhere before...  Soundd like the wicked witch...
sailor		Just sounded like an old gal havin a good time to me...  You ready to dance?
lula		Im always ready to dance.  But I need me a kiss first, honey.  Just one?
santos		I knew youd want it again...
marietta		Thats not why I called.
santos		Oh yeah - sure ... okay.
marietta		Santos...  It isnt.
santos		Have it your way...  But you want it.
marietta		Lulas gone off with Sailor.
santos		What do you want me to do about it?
marietta		I want you to take care of Sailor, so he wont ever be able to bother my baby again.
santos		Take care of him?
marietta		Yes.
santos		What does take care of him mean?... Do you want me to give him food or some clothing?
marietta		Whats with you?...  You know what take care of him means.  I dont call Santos except for one big reason.
santos		Big is the key word, and Im telling you I want it bad.
marietta		I want you to get rid of Sailor.
santos		Get rid of him?
marietta		Yes...  Get rid of him.
santos		How would I do that?  Send him on a trip - like maybe to Hawaii?
marietta		Santos, why in hell do you insist on playin this stupid game?
santos		Just tell me what you want.
marietta		I dont need to explain anymoren I have...  You know damn well.
santos		You need to explain it.
marietta		All right...  I want you ... to ... kill ... Sailor...  As simple as that.
santos		Simple?  Kill him?...  How?
marietta		Thats your business...  I dont care how.
santos		Like an accident where maybe Lula might also get hurt?
marietta		NO...  For Gods sakes, Santos!
santos		Well, like kill him with the atomic bomb?
marietta		Santos...
santos		Explain it...  I told you.
marietta		Shoot him.
santos		Shoot him?  Like with a gun?
marietta		Yes.
santos		Where?...  In the leg?
marietta		No.
santos		Where?
marietta		In the head.
santos		Shoot Sailor in the head with a gun...  Now Im beginning to get it...  You want me to shoot Sailor in the head with a gun.
marietta		Yes.
santos		But where in the head?...  Not the chin, I hope.
marietta		No...  In the brains...  What little Im sure he has.
santos		You want me to shoot Sailor in the brains with a gun.
marietta		Yes.
santos		Through the forehead?
marietta		Yes.
santos		Wrong!  Its much better to blow a hole in the back of the head ... right toward the bridge of the nose ...  Lots and lots of irreparable damage.
marietta		See!  I knew you had it all under control.
santos		Why didnt you send Johnnie Farragut?
marietta		Maybe I did...  Try New Orleans first... Lula cant ever stop talkin bout that town.
santos		On one condition...
santos		You give me your permission to kill Johnnie Farragut.
marietta		 Santos...  No...  Please, Santos...
santos		Youre not tellin me that youre sweet on him?
marietta		No...  But...
santos		One day hes gonna find out what were up to with Mr. Reindeer, and he could cause us a lot of trouble.
santos		Im gonna take your silence as a yes...
marietta		Santos...  I cant...
santos		Shhhh...  Its all right...  Also, I either take you or that pretty daughter of yours to bed.
marietta		You fucker, dont you ever touch Lula -  You fucker, Ill kill you.
santos		 Put your shoulders back.
marietta		What?
santos		Put your shoulders back, I said.
santos		You got nice tits.
marietta		Someones gonna see us.
santos		 Thats just another part of the price to pay.
marietta		Santos...  You kill that Sailor, otherwise hes gonna turn my baby against me.
santos		Look at me...  Theres no turning back on this...  Im gonna kill Sailor... Thats for sure.
sailor		Are you going to provide me with an opportunity to prove my love to my girl?  Or are you gonna save youself some trouble and step up like a gentleman and apologize to her?
idiot punk		Dont fuck with me, man.  You look like a clown in that stupid jacket.
sailor		This is a snakeskin jacket, and for me its a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom.
idiot punk		...Asshole.
sailor		 Come here.
lula		Sailor, honey...
sailor		 Im sorry to do this to ya here in front of a crowd, but I want ya to stand up and make a nice apology to my girl.
idiot punk		 Im sorry.
lula		Hell, you just rubbed up against the wrong girl is all.
sailor		Thats good...  Now go get yourself a beer.  You fellas have alotta the same power Elvis had...  Yall know this one?...
lula		Why didnt ya sing Love Me Tender? ...  You told me that was your favorite love song.
sailor		Cause Im only gonna sing that song to my wife.
lula		What you want to watch this trash for? Aint one of those people have a real thought in their brain.
sailor		That so?  You want to tell me what, if any, real thoughts you had lately?
lula		What you have to get personal about so quick?  All I mean is you could possibly read a book.
lula		Whats that honey?
sailor		We didnt have no TV up at Pee Dee, baby, you know?
lula		Im sorry, sweetie.  I forget some moments where all you been the last two years.
sailor		Twenty-three months, eighteen days is all.  Dont need to make moren it was.  This couples goin on a date to Hawaii.  The girl chose him over the other two guys.
lula		Dont the reject guys get anythin?
sailor		Gift certificates to Kentucky Fried Chicken.
lula		That dont seem fair.
sailor		Hell, why should the Datin Game be different from real life?  At least them boys is gonna get somethin to eat.
lula		Sailor?
sailor		Yeah?
lula		Wouldnt it be fabulous if we somehow stayed in love for the rest of our lives?
sailor		 You think of the weirdest damn things to say sometimes, peanut.  Aint we been doin a pretty fair job this far?
lula		Oh, you know exactly what I mean, honey?  Itd make the future so simple and nice.
sailor		At Pee Dee, all you think about is the future, you know?  Gettin out? And what youll do and what youll think about when youre on the outside again.
lula		I just think about things as they come up.  I never been much of a planner.
sailor		It aint altogether terrible just to let things go along sometimes. Lula, I done a few things in my life I aint too proud of, but Ill tell ya from now on I aint gonna do nothin for no good reason.  All I know for sure is theres moren a few bad ideas runnin around loose out there.
lula		You know theres somethin I aint never told you about, Sailor, and this heres a story with the lesson that theres a right time and a wrong time for things to happen... When I was almost sixteen I got pregnant.
sailor		Musta been a lesson tellin ya it was the wrong time...  What did you do, your mama find out?
lula		 She got me an abortion...
lula		 ...from some old doctor with the hairiest nostrils and ears I ever seen.
lula		 Afterwards...  Momma says...
lula		 ...I hope you appreciate my spendin six hundred dollars, not countin what it cost us to get here and back...  This mans the best damn abortionist in the South.
sailor		You tell the boy who knocked you up?
lula		It was my cousin, Dell, done it?  His folks used to visit with us summers.
sailor		What happened to him?
lula		Oh, nothin.  I never let on to mama about Dell bein the one.  I just flat refused to tell her who the daddy was?  I didnt tell Dell, neither. He was back home in Chattanooga by then, anyhow, and I didnt see the point. Somethin terrible happened to him, though.  Six months ago.
sailor		Whats that, peanut?
lula		Dell disappeared.  Dell was learnin a hard lesson.  What I learned from observin Dell is I think people who are frightened want to disappear. Hed startin behavin weird?  Like comin up to people every fifteen minutes and askin how they were doin?
dell		Howre ya doin?
lula		And just seemin real spacey and actin funny.
sailor		Actin funny how?
lula		Well, like mama told me, Aunt Rootie, Dells mama?  She found cockroaches in Dells underwear.
lula		One time, Aunt Rootie caught Dell puttin one big cockroach on his anus?
sailor		Hell, peanut...
lula		One time - real late - like about two thirty a.m.?  She found Dell up in the black of night all dressed and makin sandwiches in the kitchen.
aunt rootie		Whatre ya doin?
dell		Makin my lunch!!!
lula		 Dell told her he was makin his lunch and goin to work.  Hes a welder?  And she made him go back to bed.
lula		Then hed carry on about the weather? Talk about how rainfalls controlled by aliens livin on earth.  Also how men wearin black leather gloves...
lula		 ...are followin him around.
sailor		Probly the rain boys from Outer Space.
lula		It aint so funny now, though.  December before Christmas?  Dell disappeared again and Aunt Rootie hired a private eye to find him.  He was missin for almost a month before he wandered back in the house on mornin dressed in some filthy Santa Claus suit.
lula		 The private eye cost Aunt Rootie over a thousand dollars?  Then a little while later Dell ran off a third time to some place he said would give him peace of mind.  Nobodys seen him since.
sailor		Sound like ol Dells moren just a little confused, peanut...  Too bad he couldnt visit that ol Wizard of Oz and get some good advice.
lula		Too bad we all cant, baby...  One thing about Dell?
sailor		Whats that?
lula		When he was about seventeen, he startin losin his hair.
sailor		So?
lula		Hes twenty-four now?  A year older than you?  And must be bout bald.
sailor		Theres worse things that can happen to a man, honey.
lula		Yeah, I suppose.  But you know somethin baby, hair does make a difference.
lula		I sure am glad they didnt give you no prison haircut...  Gives me somethin to grab hold of while were makin love?
sailor		Lets go dancin, peanut.  Im ready.
lula		We gotta be careful, honey, my mamas gonna have Johnnie Farragut on us like a duck on a june bug, and hes one clever detective?  You know how clever?  He once told me that he could find an honest man in Washington. My toenails gotta dry first anyways, Sailor.
sailor		One thing puzzles my mind, sugar... Youre twenty years old - arent you ever curious why your mama has this fixation on keepin us apart? Puttin a detective on us.  Ill tell ya Lula...  Well...  Its moren me killin Bob Ray Lemon...
lula		Maybe my mama cares for me just a little too much...
sailor		Yeah, maybe...
marietta		Hey, Sailor boy, you wanna fuck Lulas mama?...
sailor		No.
marietta		Well, she wants to fuck you.
old man		 Lousy fuckin homosexuals...
sailor		 What are you, sick?...  Im with Lula.
marietta		No...  I just wanted to kiss you good-bye...  You know too much bout little Lulas mom...
sailor		Whattya mean?
marietta		Well, Johnnie told me you used to drive for Clyde and Santos...
sailor		So?
marietta		So maybe one night you got a little too close to the fire...  And youre gonna get burned, baby...  And besides that, youre shit...  Dyou think Id let my little girl go with shit like you?...  Why, you belong right here in one of these toilets.
sailor		Youre gonna have to kill me to keep me away from Lula.
marietta		Oh, dont worry bout that...
sailor		Its a problm I dont thinks gonna go away too soon though...  Peanut, Im thinkin of breakin parole and takin you out to sunny California.
lula		Sailor!
sailor		You up for that?
lula		Id got to the far end of the world for you, baby...  You know I would.
sailor		Those toenails dry yet?  We got some dancin to do.
lula		...Thats an awful long way to go, just to get some pussy.
sailor		Yeah, I had my first taste on that trip to Juarez.  At that age you still got a lot of energy.
lula		You still got plenty energy for me, baby.
lula		Take a picture, bitch...  Itll last longer.
girl		Oh yeah?
lula		Ill slap those eyes right outta your head.
lula		Sorry, baby...  Whens the first time you done it with a girl who wasnt hookin?
sailor		Maybe two, three months after Juarez. I was visitin my cousin, Junior Train, in Savannah, and we were at some kids house whose parents were out of town.  A girl comes up to me that was real tall, taller than me.
sailor		 She looked right at me and run her tongue over her lips and put her hand on my arm - told me her name was Irma.
lula		Whatd you say to her?
sailor		Told her my name.  Then she said somethin like, Its so noisy down here.  Why dont we go upstairs so we can hear ourselves? She turned around and led the way. I knew I had an important lesson to learn that day.
sailor		 When she got almost to the top step I stuck my hand between her legs from behind.
lula		Oh, baby.  What a bad boy you are!
sailor		 Thats just what she said.  I had a boner with a capital O.  I went to kiss her but she broke off laughin and ran down the hallway. I found her lyin on a bed in a room filled with assault weapons and Penthouse magazines.  She was a wild chick.  She was wearin bright orange pants with kind of Spanish lookin lacy black stripes down the sides.  You know, them kind that doesnt go all the way down your leg?
lula		You mean like pedal pushers?
sailor		I guess.
sailor		 She just rolled over onto her stomach and stuck her ass up in the air.  I slid my hand between her legs and she closed her thighs on it.
lula		Youre excitin me, honey.  Whatd she do?
sailor		Her face was half-pushed into the pillow, and she looked back over her shoulder at me and said, I wont suck you.  Dont ask me to suck you.
lula		Poor baby.  She dont know what she missed.  What color hair she have?
sailor		Sorta brown, blonde, I guess.  But dig this, sweetie.  Then she turns over, peels off them orange pants, and spreads her legs real wide and says to me...
irma		 Take a bite of peach.
lula		 Jesus, honey!  You moren sorta got what you come for...  You better rum me back to the hotel, baby...  You got me hottern Georgia asphalt.
sailor		Say no more...  But go easy on me, sweetheart...  Tomorrow we got alotta drivin to do.  Hottern Georgia asphalt?
lula		Ill drop mama a postcard from somewhere.  I mean, I dont want her to worry no moren necessary.
sailor		What do you mean by necessary?  Shes probly already called the cops, my parole officer, her p.i. boyfriend Johnnie Farragut.
lula		I suppose so.  She knew I was bound to see you soon as you was sprung, but I dont figure she counted on us takin off together like this... I guess this means youre breakin parole, then?
sailor		You guess?  My parole was broke two hundred miles back when we burnt Portagee County.
lula		Whatll it be like in California, Sailor, do you think?  I hear it dont rain much there.
sailor		You got about six more big states to go before we find out.
lula		We got through two states already.
sailor		That dont smell like a More.
lula		It aint.  Its part of the lessons of life.  I picked me up a pack of Vantages before we left the Cape?
sailor		They sure do stink.
lula		Yeah, I guess, but - and heres the lesson part - they aint supposed to be so bad for you.
sailor		You aint gonna begin worryin about whats bad for you at this hour, are you, sugar?  I mean, here you are crossin state lines with a A- Number One certified murderer.
lula		Manslaughterer, honey, not murderer. Dont exaggerate.
sailor		Okay, manslaughterer whos broke his parole and got in mind nothin but immoral purposes fars youre concerned.
lula		Thank the Lord.  Well, you aint let me down yet, Sailor.  Thats moren I can say for the rest of the world?
sailor		You please me, too, peanut.
sailor		Life is a bitch and then you marry one.
lula		What kinda trash talk is that?
sailor		 What it says on the bumper sticker up front.  On that pickup.
lula		Thats disgustin.  Those kinda sentiments shouldnt be allowed out in public.  Is this Biloxi yet?
sailor		Almost.  I figure we should find us a place to stay and then go eat.
lula		Got anyplace special in mind?
sailor		We oughta stay somewhere outta the way.  Not in no Holidays or Ramadas or Motel Six.  If Johnnie Farraguts on our trail hell check those first.
lula		How about that one?  The Host of the Old South Hotel.
sailor		Looks more like the Ghost of the Old South, but well try her.
lula		I H-A-T-E hotel bedspreads.  They dont hardly never get washed, and I dont like the idea of lyin on other peoples dirt.
sailor		Come look at this.
lula		 Whats that, honey?
sailor		 There aint no water in the swimmin pool.  Just a dead tree fell in, probly from bein struck by lightnin.
lula		 Its huge.  This musta been a grand old place at one time.
sailor		Lets get fed, sweetheart.  The lights fadin fast.  CUT TO:
santos		Hello there, Mr. Reindeer... Marcello Santos speaking.
santos		I gotta problem...  In fact, I gotta coupla problems...
lula		 M-i-ss-i-ss-i-pp-i...  You can almost hear that jazz blowin up from the big N.O.
sailor		Lula...  I learned somethin interestin today on a science show I heard on the radio...  How leeches is comin back into style.
lula		Say what?  Honestly, sugar, you can talk more shit sometimes?
sailor		Got you a pack of Mores again, huh?
lula		Yeah, its a real problem for me, Sailor, you know?  When I went in that drugstore by the restaurant in Biloxi?  I saw em by the register and the girl throw em in.  Im not big on resistin.  So what about a leech?
sailor		Heard on the radio how doctors is usin leeches again, just in old times.  You know, when even barbers used em?
lula		 I got one on me at Lake Lanier. Lifeguard poured salt on it and it dropped off.  Felt awful.  He was a cute boy, though, so it was almost worth it.
sailor		Yeah, well listen to this...  Radio said back in the 1920s a I-talian doctor figured out that if, say, a fella got his nose cut off or bit off in, say, a barfight or somethin, theyd sew one of his forearms to his nose for a few weeks...  Then put leeches on it.
lula		Sailor?  You expect me to believe a mand be goin around with a arm sewed to his nose?
sailor		 How they used to do it.  Course they got more sophisticated ways now. Radio said the Chinese, I think it is, figured a better idea is by insertin a balloon in the forehead and lettin it hand down on the nose.
lula		Sailor Ripley!  You stop!  Youre makin this shit up and I aint gonna sit for it!
sailor		Honest, Lula.  I probly aint precisely got all the facts straight, but its about what they said.
lula		Honey, were goin to bed now and its time to change the subject.
sailor		Were about dry bones, sweetheart. We dont wanna have to push this bird into New Orleans.
lula		We sure dont, honey...  Get me a Mounds?
black man		 Sorry, gentlemen.  Im most finished on my shoppin here.
erv		This be it?
black man		Yall take American Express?
erv		Yessir.
black man		Then lemme throw in a couple more things.
black man		 Pussycats gotta eat, too.
black man		 Id just soon have a paper bag rather than a plastic one, if its same to you.
erv		 We dont have no paper bags.
black man		 Thanks for waitin, gentlemen.
sailor		 All I wants ten bucks regular. Oh yeah, and a Mounds bar.
sailor		I aint got my American Express card with me, so I gotta use cash.  Hope thats okay.
lula		That took long enough.  You forget my Mounds?
sailor		I really do think the country done changed just a little while I was away, peanut.
lula		 You got to keep an eye on it.  Thats sure.
reggie		Do you mind if we share this table? ...  The others, they are occupied.
johnnie		 Alright...  By all means.  Make yourselves at home.
drop shadow		 Muchas gracias.
reggie		My name is Reginald San Pedro Sula. But please do call me Reggie.  This is my friend, who we call Drop Shadow.  He is always with me.
johnnie		Johnnie Farragut.  Pleased to meet ya.
reggie		You are from New Orleans, Senor Farragut?
johnnie		Johnnie, please.  Nope.  Charlotte, North Carolina.  Here on business.
drop shadow		Mr. San Pedro Sula is from Honduras.
reggie		Do you know Honduras, Johnny?
johnnie		Only that its supposed to be a pretty poor sight since the hurricane came through last year.
reggie		Yes, thats so.  But there is not much to destroy.
drop shadow		No big buildings like in New Orleans.
johnnie		Whattaya do there?
reggie		 Oh, many things...
drop shadow		Mr. San Pedro Sulas got an appliance shop.
reggie		But I am also with the government.
johnnie		In what capacity?
reggie		In many capacities.
drop shadow		Mr. San Pedro Sula is with the Secret Service.
johnnie		 General Osvaldo Tamarindo y Ramirez.
reggie		He is my sponsor.  The General is the head of the secret police of Honduras.
drop shadow		Mr. San Pedro Sula is one of his operatives.
reggie		That is my permiso.
drop shadow		Mr. San Pedro Sulas permit to kill.
reggie		Only if necessary, of course, and only in my own country. 
johnnie		Of course.
drop shadow		Mr. San Pedro Sulas authorized to
reggie		United States Marine issue, before they made the unfortunate switch to the less dependable nine millimeters. I have it here, in my briefcase.
johnnie		Why are you in New Orleans?  If you dont mind my askin.
reggie		Certainly not.  We are here only briefly, in fact, until this evening, when we fly to Austin, Texas to visit a friend of mine who is an agent for the CIA.
drop shadow		He wants to take Mr. San Pedro Sula and me bass fishing.
reggie		We are in the same businesses and also we are fishermen.
johnnie		 Its been a real pleasure.  I wish you both buena suerte wherever you go.
reggie		The same to you.  If you are in Honduras, come to the Bay Islands and visit us.  The Hondurans are great friends of the American people.  But I have a joke for you before I go. If a liberal, a socialist, and a communist all jumped off the roof of the Empire State Building at the same time, which one of them would hit the ground first?
johnnie		I couldnt say, which one?
drop shadow		 Who cares?
lula		I love it when your eyes get wild, honey.  They light up all blue almost and little white parachutes pop out of em.  Oh, Sailor youre so aware of what goes on with me?  I mean, you pay attention.  And I swear, you got the sweetest cock.  Sometimes its like its talkin to me when youre inside?  Like its got a voice all its own.  You get right on me.
sailor		You really are dangerously cute, honey.  I gotta admit it.
sailor		Lets head out into the crazy world of New Orleans...  I gotta get somethin to eat.
george		My names George Kovich.  Bet youve heard of me.
sailor		Dont know that I have...  Should I know about you for anythin in particular?
george		Was in all the papers three years ago. Im seventy-six, was only seventy- three then.  Had a business in Buffalo, New York, called Rats With Wings.  Killed pigeons for anyone who wanted em killed.
lula		Why were you killin pigeons, Mr. Kovich?  Were you in the extermination business?
george		No, maam.  I was a housepainter, in the union forty-one years.  Im retired now, livin with my sister, Ida.  Ida moved down here twenty-five years ago, married an oil man named Smoltz, Ed Smoltz.  Hes dead now, so its just me and Ida.  I sold my house and moved down after the city of Buffalo put me out of business. Hell, RWW was doin them a service, and they charged me with endangerin the public.
lula		Whats wrong with pigeons, Mr. Kovich?
george		Theyre useless pests.  Ive shot hundreds of em...
george		 ...My neighbors hired me to get rid of the pigeons that gathered on their roofs and porches...  CUT TO:
george		...Neighbors asked me how come the spotted bastards didnt light on my house or my brother Earls anymore, and I told em the truth.  I shot em...  Earls gone now...
george		 ...Heart attack six months ago - had that cholesterol thick as shit... His widow, Mildred, she still lives in the house next to mine.
sailor		If your neighbors didnt mind, howd you get put out of business?
george		Woman drivin down the street spotted me with on a roof with my rifle.  She called the police and they came over and arrested me.  Thought I was a sniper!  Boys at the VFW loved that one.  Cops didnt understand about the pigeons, the damage they do to personal property.  I used to complain to the city but they never lifted a finger.  I was gonna put out poison, but I was afraid somebodys cat would eat it.  Hell, I had six cats myself.  So I used the .22 because it didnt make much noise and the ammo was cheap.
sailor		What happened on the charges?
george		Guilty on a reduced charge.  Hundred dollar fine and ordered to desist. Pigeons carry diseases and muss up the place.  You seen it.  Plain filth.
george		Its a serious situation.  Not like the Turks and the Armenians, maybe, or the Arabs and the Jews, but I want people to remember me and what Ive done and pick up where I left off.  Somebody had to make a move. It was nice meetin you folks.
sailor		What lesson do get outta that story, Lula?
lula		Its just another case, Sailor.
sailor		Whats that, peanut?
lula		One person thinks hes doin somethin good and everbody else gets upset about it.
sailor		Aint it the way...
lula		Sailor?...  Sailor, honey?
sailor		Huh?
lula		Ever imagine what itd be like to get eaten alive by a wild beast?... Sometimes I think it would be the biggest thrill?
sailor		My God,  it better be, darlin, cause itd be the last...  What time is it?
lula		Shhhhh...  Its four oclock... That womans laugh the other day had somethin to do with this feelin? ...  Like bein ripped apart by a gorilla, maybe...  Grabbed sudden and pulled apart real quick by a real powerful one.
sailor		Lula, sometimes I gotta admit, you come up with some weird thoughts...
lula		Anythin interestin in the world come out of somebodys weird thoughts, Sailor.  You tell me Sailor, who could come up with shit like were seein these days?
sailor		You got me, peanut.
lula		 You certain?
sailor		I aint never met anyone come close to you, sugar.
lula		Recall the time we was sittin one night behind the Confederate soldier? Leanin against it.  And you took your hand and put it on your heart and you said, You feel it beatin in there, Lula?...  Get used to it, cause it belongs to you now.  Dyou recall that?
sailor		I do.
lula		I was hopin you would.  I know that night by heart.  Sometimes, honey? I think its the best night of my life.
lula		 I really do think its the best night of my life.
sailor		We didnt do nothin special I can remember.  Just talked, is all.
lula		Talkins good.  Long as you got the other?  Im a big believer in talkin, case you aint noticed.
sailor		Too bad they dont give an award for talkin...  Youd win first prize. Especially with those tits.
lula		You think so, baby?  Does my talkin bother you, honey?
sailor		No, I like gettin up around four a.m. and talkin bout wild animals ...  Though you woke me up this time in the middle of a dream.  I kinda wish I didnt remember it.  Up at Pee Dee, I couldnt remember any of my dreams.
lula		What was this one?
sailor		It wasnt no fun, Lula.  The wind was blowin super-hard and I wasnt dressed warm.  Only instead of freezin, I was sweatin strong.
sailor		 The water was rollin off me.  And I was dirty, too, like I hadnt had no bath in a long time, so the sweat was black almost.
lula		Boy, sweetie, this is weird, okay.
sailor		I know.  I kept walkin, I headed for your house, only it wasnt your house, really.  You let me in only you werent real pleased to see me. You kept askin, Whyd you come to see me now?  Why now?  Like itd been a long time since wed seen each ohter.
lula		Oh, baby, what an idea.  Id always be happy to see you, no matter what.
sailor		I know, peanut.  But it wasnt all like you were so unhappy I was there, just you were upset.  My bein there was upsettin to you.  You had some kids there, little kids, and I guess youd got married and your husband was comin home any minute.
sailor		 I tell you, Lula.  I was shakin wet. All this black sweat was pourin off me, and I knew I was scarin you, so I took off.
lula		Sometimes dreams just dont mean nothin...  Stuff comes into your mind and you dont have no control over, you know?  Anyways, dreams aint no odder than real life. Sometimes not by half.
sailor		Well, I aint upset about it, darlin. Just give me an odd feelin there a minute, is all.
lula		Take a bite of Lula.
chet		Hey!!!...  Johnnie Farragut.  How are you, my man.
johnnie		Real good, Chet...  Its been awhile.
chet		Everythins relative.  Wheres that Marietta Pace Fortune?  You two didnt split up, I hope.
johnnie		No...  Shes fine.  Back home.
chet		Whatll it be?  The regular?  Black Label?
johnnie		Set one up.
chet		So who you out sleuthin for now?... Can I help ya?
johnnie		Actually, Im lookin for Mariettas daughter, Lula.  Her and er beau took off the other day.  Mariettas real upset about it.
chet		Hell, that rings a bell.  Someone told me somebody lookin like her was at the Nothin Fancy yesterday.
johnnie		Sounds right...  Ill check it out.
chet		 You hitched yet?
johnnie		No sir...
chet		Its none of my business, but when are you and Marietta gonna tie the knot?  I always wondered why you never did.
johnnie		Not for lack of love, I can tell ya that.
chet		Thats what I mean...  Always looked like you was just knocked out in love...  Was real nice to see.
johnnie		Ill tell ya though, its comin up to the time when Marietta and me might just set up house together and settle down...  I think that times comin up right soon.  But like you said, everythins realtive.
lula		Lets get outta here...  I suddenly got a funny feelin about this place.  Feelin all that voodoo...
sailor		 Gotta hex from a voodoo?
lula		 Who do?
sailor		You do.
lula		Oh my God...  Its Johnnie...  Duck down!...  Get goin!
sailor		 Where?
lula		Never mind where...  Get outta here... I mean it, Sailor.
sailor		Im goin.
johnnie		 Aint love wonderful?...
waitress		Whats that?
johnnie		I said, aint love wonderful?
johnnie		Good luck to you kids.
lula		You think he saw us?
sailor		Who knows, baby?
lula		He was sittin there havin a beignet at the Cafe Du Monde.  Do you think he saw us?
sailor		Lula, darlin...  Makes no difference anyway...  Were outta here.
sailor		Sweetheart, keep your panties up. Were in Jimmy Swaggart country.
lula		Sure you wanna do this?  Might be a way they could track us.
sailor		Hes just a regular guyt needs help, honey.  Look at him.
roach		Thanks a lot.  I been standin out there off and on for two hours, ha-ha! Since noon about, ha-ha!  Cops catch ya hitchin on a Interstate around here they throw ya on a county road crew for a week, less you can pay the ticket, ha-ha!  Which I aint got, ha-ha!
sailor		My names Sailor, and this heres Lula.  Whats yours?
roach		Marvin DeLoach.  But everbody calls me Roach, ha-ha!  Roach DeLoach, ha-ha!
lula		You always make that strange little funny laugh when you talk?
roach		Aint laughin, ha-ha!
sailor		What you got in the box?
roach		My dogs, ha-ha!
roach		Im headed to Alaska, ha-ha!  These dogs is gonna be my sled team, ha-ha!
lula		 This guys crazy.
sailor		Where you from, Roach?
roach		If you mean where I was born, it was Belzoni, Missippi, ha-ha!  But I been brought up in Baton Rouge.
lula		Why you goin to Alaska?  And whered you get them puppies?  They look sick.
roach		I saw this movie on TV, ha-ha!  The Call of the Wild.  I aint never seen snow, ha-ha!  I got these dogs at the pound.  Nobody wanted em, ha-ha!  Everbody here got theirself pit bulls or some kinda hounds.  Im gonna feed these boys good so theyll be big and powerful and they can pull me real fast through the snow, ha-ha!
lula		 Sailor!  Stop!  Stop the car now!
lula		Im sorry, but I cant take this. Roach, or whatever your name is, you come out of there with them dogs this instant!
lula		Im truly sorry?  Im truly sorry, Roach.  But aint gonna make it to Alaska?  Least not any part of the way with us.  Youd best find a party to take care of those dogs proper, before they all die?  And, if you dont mind my sayin so?  You could most certainly use some serious lookin after yourself, startin with a bath!
lula		Drive.
sailor		You dont feel you was a little hard on the guy, honey?
lula		I know youre thinkin that I got moren some of my mama in me?  Well, I couldnt help it.  Sailor, I really couldnt.  Im sorry for that guy, but when he pulled that drippin hunk of awful-smellin meat out of his pocket?  I near barfed.  And them poor diseased puppies!
sailor		 Just part of life on the road, peanut.
lula		Do me a favor, Sailor?  Dont pick up no more hitchers, okay?
johnnie		No, Marietta, I havent found em.
marietta		This is the kinda mistake can take a Hindus lifetime to unfix... You better get a move on, Johnnie, before that boy got her holdin down a Memphis streetcorner and shootin dope up her arms.
johnnie		Really, Marietta, you got more scenarios swimmin around in your brain than Carter got pills.  Try to take it easy.  Go over to Myrtle Beach for a few days.
marietta		Im stayin right here by the phone until you find Lula, then Im comin to get her.  You call soons you got somethin, even if its three in the a.m.
johnnie		I will, Marietta.  Goodbye now.
reggie		 Hola!  Senor Farragut!  We meet again.
johnnie		I thought you two were in Austin, Texas.  Or Takes-us, as they say in these parts.
drop shadow		We were.  Now Mr. San Pedro Sula and I are on our way back to Utila, in the morning.
reggie		Would you like to enjoy a martini with us?
johnnie		Why not?  How was the fishin?
reggie		I think they are too serious, these American fishermen.  In Honduras, we are not so concerned with the method.
johnnie		So, its back to the islands.
drop shadow		Yes.  Mr. San Pedro Sula spoke yesterday to his son, Archibald Leach San Pedro Sula, who is named after Cary Grant, and he told them there was a shooting.
reggie		Teddy Roosevelt, one of the local shrimp boat captains is in jail now. These people are friends of mine, so I must return and find out what happened.
johnnie		This island of yours sounds like a kind of unpredictable place.
reggie		 It has its moments of uncertainty.
drop shadow		But how are you finding New Orleans, Senor Farragut?
johnnie		Call me Johnnie...  N.O. has always been a good town to sit around in.
reggie		I can tell you are an intelligent man, Johnnie.  One difference between your country and mine is that in the islands, it does not pay to reveal ones intelligence...  Others may use what they perceive against us...
reggie		Hasta siempre.
johnnie		Hasta siempre.
reggie		Do you know how it came about that copper wire was invented in Scotland?
johnnie		Hows that?
drop shadow		Two Scotsmen were fighting over a penny.
johnnie		I gotta admit, you guys are  two in four dozen.
reggie		The real joke is we never went fishing, but were still fishing.
lula		I wouldnt mind a little night life. How about you?
sailor		Hard to tell whats shakin in a place like this, honey.  You dont want to be walkin in the wrong door.
lula		Maybe theres a place we could hear some music.  I feel like dancin. We could ask someone.
sailor		Someone up here might know somethin.
buck		Gas?
sailor		Got enough, thanks.  Were lookin for a place has some music, where we can maybe do some dancin - get somethin to eat, too.  Anything like that around here?
billy		Cornbreads.  They got western.
buck		No food, though, cept bar nibbles.
lula		How about speed metal?
lula		Any kinda rocknroll, honey.
billy		Theres a boogie joint just about a mile straight out Lafitte here.  But thats a black place mostly.
buck		Mostly black though in that boogie place.
sailor		Whats the name of it?
buck		Club Zanzibar.
sailor		You say its straight ahead a mile?
buck		About.  Where Lafitte crosses over
sailor		Thanks.
sailor		You ready for this?
lula		Well find out in a hurry.
lula		Come on.
bartender zanzibar		This is a friendly place, son.  You folks just relax and have a nice time.
lula		 You got yourself a deal.
bartender		 Thats a real jacket...  By that, I mean a real stupid jacket.
sailor		This is a snakeskin jacket, and for me it represents a symbol of my individuality and my belief in personal freedom.
bartender		Fuckin honky cracker mumbo jumbo.
lula		Ill be damned if Im leavin.  That band is too good?
sailor		Uh huh.
lula		You notice that woman when we come in?  The white woman sittin by herself?
sailor		Yeah.
lula		Well, she aint talked to nobody and aint nobody spoke to her that I could tell.  What you make of that?
sailor		Honey, we bein strangers here and all, this is the kinda place we dont want to make nothin of nothin.
lula		You think shes pretty?
sailor		I tend to like em with a little more meat on the bones.  Face aint bad, though.
sailor		Whats wrong, sweetheart?  Somethin botherin you?
lula		Mama.  I been thinkin about her. Shes probly worried to death by now.
sailor		Moren likely.
lula		I want to call her and tell her Im okay.  That were okay.
sailor		I aint so sure its a great idea, but thats up to you.  Just dont tell her where we are.
lula		 Pardon me?  Yall got a phone here I can use?
bartender zanzibar		Cant you read?
lula		 Back in a bit.
operator		I have a collect call from Lula Fortune.  Will you accept?
marietta		Of course!  Lula?  Where are you? You all right?
lula		Im fine, mama.  I just wanted to tell you not to worry.
marietta		Why, how could I not worry?  Not knowin whats happenin to you or where you are?  Are you with that boy?
lula		If you mean Sailor, mama, yes I am.
marietta		Are you comin back here soon, Lula? I need you here.
lula		Need me for what, mama?  Im perfectly fine, and safe, too.
marietta		You in a dance hall or somethin? I can hear music behind you.
lula		Just a place.
marietta		Really, Lula, this aint right!
lula		Right?!  Mama, was it right for you to sic Johnnie Farragut on us?  How could you do that?
marietta		Did you run into Johnnie in New Orleans?  Lula, are you in New Orleans?
lula		No, mama, Im in Mexico, and were about to get on an airplane to Argentina!
marietta		Argentina!  Lula, youre outta your mind.  Now you just tell me where you are and Ill come for you.  I wont say nothin to the police about Sailor, I promise.  He can do what he wants, I dont care.
lula		Mama, Im hangin up this phone now.
marietta		No, baby, dont!  Can I send you somethin?  You runnin low on money? Ill wire you some money if you tell me where you are.
lula		I aint that dumb, mama.  Sailor and I been on a crime spree?  Knockin off convenience stores all across the south?  Aint you read about it?
marietta		Lula?  I love you, baby.  I just want you to be all right.
lula		I am all right, mama.  Thats why I called, to let you know.  I gotta go.
marietta		Call me again soon?  Ill be waitin by the phone.
lula		Dont be crazy, mama.  Take care of yourself.
sailor		I was just wastin time, peanut, till you come back.
lula		Its me whos wastin time, Sailor, bein with you.
sailor		Honey, Im sorry.  It wasnt nothin. Come on and get up and well take off.
lula		Leave me be for a minute?  Mama gets all insane and then I see you practicin your individuality and personal freedom with some oil-town tramp.  How you figure Im gonna feel?
sailor		Told you not to call your mama.
marietta		Santos...  If you get this message, call me right away.  Its Marietta... I dont know, Santos...  Maybe this is all not...  Call me.
marietta		Johnnie!  At last!  I thought you was never gonna come back to your room.
johnnie		I got some news, Marietta.  Lula and Sailor been here.  They checked out of the Hotel Brazil on Frechman Street yesterday.
marietta		Listen, Johnnie, Lula just called me.  She knew you were in N.O., so they left the city.
johnnie		Did she tell you where she was callin from?
marietta		No, but my guess is theyre headed west, so probly Texas.  Their money must be runnin low.  I dont think Sailor had much to begin with, if any, and Lula took the six hundred she had saved in the Cherokee Thrift.
johnnie		Howd she sound?  Was she doin okay?
marietta		Could she be doin okay, Johnnie? Shes tryin to prove somethin to me, thats all.  Lula aint doin no moren showin off, defyin me...  Johnnie, Ive done somethin bad...
johnnie		What?
marietta		I wont tell you over the phone. Im comin to N.O. and Ill tell you then.
johnnie		Marietta, I was just gonna leave and see if I could pick up their trail.
marietta		No, you wait right there for me... Ill be on the Piedmont flight tomorrow at seven.  Meet me at the airport.
johnnie		Ill meet you, Marietta, if thats what you want, but Im against it.
marietta		Seven tomorrow evenin.  Se can eat at Galatoires.  Fix it.
lula		 How much we got left, honey?
sailor		Under a hundred.
lula		You want to stick around here, Sailor? See if we can get some work?
sailor		Not in Houston.  Wed be better off in some place more out of the way.
lula		You want me to drive for a stretch? Give you a chance to rest.
sailor		Thatd be good, Lula.
artie		 Come in, Montgomery, Alabama.
artie		Yes, maam.  Whats on your almost- perfect mind this evening?
artie		Im fine, thank you.  I had a cardiac infarction but Im on a new diet and exercising regularly.  Ive never felt better.
artie		Thank you.  Its listeners such as yourself who made me want to get up out of that hospital bed and back into the studio as fast as I could.
lula		 Jesus!  How could anyone listen to this crap?
lula		 Ill bet.
reporter		In international news, India plans to release crocodiles in the Ganges, the holy Hindu river in which millions of people bathe annually, to scavenge for corpses, authorities said.
reporter		 The reptiles were supposed to be of a docile species, said a senior government official, but it seems the breeders bungled and reared attack crocodiles.
lula		Damn!
reporter		The Indian official who supplied this information did so only on condition of anonymity.  The Uttar Pradesh state authorities last October released five hundred turtles...
reporter		 in the Ganges near Varanasi to try and reduce human pollution and now plan to put in the crocodiles to devour floatin corpses dumped by Hindus too poor to pay for cremation.
lula		HOLY SHIT!!  ITS THE NIGHT OF THE LIVIN FUCKIN DEAD!!!!
sailor		Whats that, peanut?
lula		I cant take no more of this radio...  I aint never heard so much concentrated weirdness in my life, Sailor Ripley, you find me some dancin music right this minute...  I MEAN IT!!
lula		 The worlds gettin worse, I think, Sailor.  And it dont sound like theres much we can do about it, neither.
sailor		This aint news, sweetheart.  I hate to tell ya.
sailor		POWERMAD!!!
manager		Heres your key.  Mr. Farraguts already taken care of everything. I hope youll be comfortable, Mrs. Fortune.  Youre in room 351 right down the hall from Mr. Farragut.
desk clerk		I have a phone call for you, Mrs. Fortune ... at the phone by the fireplace.  Please wait for it to ring.
marietta		Yes?...
santos		I got your message...  But you went right to Johnnie, didnt you?... I cant trust you, bitch - not for one minute...  Naughty girl... Sailor and Lula are headed west, and guess what?  Theres no turning back. Im in a killing mood.
marietta		No...
santos		My very best to Johnnie...  Bless his soul.
johnnie		Who was that?...  Who knows your here?
marietta		Ill be damned if that wasnt a wrong number?
marietta		What is it, Johnnie?
johnnie		Just some guys I met here...  I keep seein em...  Now tell me...
marietta		Johnnie, I cant tell you, honey.  Is there anyway we can get on the road tonight?  Weve got to find them kids.
johnnie		Somethin was upsettin you bad last night, and you wanted to tell me and I figured you wanted to tell me sos I could help...
marietta		I did, honey, but that was last night...  Lets just find those two kids before its too late.
johnnie		Honey, I have to ask you this... Is Santos involved in any of this?
marietta		Hell no, baby...  I wouldnta done that without tellin you.
johnnie		That bastard Pucinski...
marietta		Who?...  Uncle Pooch?...
johnnie		Yeah...  The one that introduced Santos to you and Clyde.
marietta		Johnnie...  Thats the past...  We gotta get on to our future, sugar!
johnnie		 All I have to do is grab my suitcase, and Im ready.  Youre lucky cause I happen to love night drivin.
marietta		Lets head for Texas and see if we can pick up the trail.
johnnie		Did I tell ya its great to see ya again?
marietta		This bout the fifth time?
marietta		 Ill pack my things and meet you downstairs.
johnnie		And to think what coulda happened in that king-sized bed tonight...
marietta		 You wont of missed much.
johnnie		See ya downstairs.
manager		Im afraid his car is gone, Mrs. Fortune.
marietta		I dont understand this...  I dont understand this one bit.  He was supposed to meet me right her in this lobby.  Somethin bad has happened - I jus know it.
manager		Perhaps we should call a local law enforcement officer.
marietta		HELL NO!!!  Thats the last thing we need...  A buncha cops runnin around.
desk clerk		Im sorry...  But I have overlooked this.  Im truly sorry, maam.
note		Gone fishing with a friend - maybe buffalo hunting.  Johnnie.
marietta		Oh God!  What does that mean?
manager		Im sure I wouldnt know, maam ... and buffalo hunting too ... hmmmmm?
marietta		And jus when my babys out on some Texas road with a killer.
marietta		 Santos...  Wheres J-J-Johnnie?
santos		Shhhhhh...  Thank you, gentlemen...  Ill look after her now...
marietta		Santos...  Whats happenin here?
santos		Hey...  Stop the nervous cry-baby routine...  Youre my girl now... Santos is gonna wipe away those tears and make you happy...  Come on, lets get outta here.
marietta		Where we goin?
santos		Got word the kids are moving through Texas...  I think an ending is being arranged there...  Come on, lemme see a smile.
marietta		Please Santos...  Wheres Johnnie?
juana		Johnnie, you take a good look at me, baby, cause you gonna hafta watch close to know when we do it to ya... Yall count when I touch the bottle - HO!!...  There I slap that mutha fucka face - pay attention fucka - otherwise we hafta work it all night...  Too much fun for us - you see what I mean?  Now watch me how I touch a bottle and you count how many times.
juana		You see, Johnnie.  I toucha number one bottle once, I toucha number two bottle once, and I touch your face. This is a game we love to play.  I get hot already...  Now you meet second Mr. Killer...  Does he fish or dont he?
reggie		Hey, Johnnie...  Reggie - you remember Reggie, dont ya?  Look what I caught.  Im gettin hot too, mama.
juana		Now Johnnie...  We want to feel the feelin...  Feel the feelin...  We be gettin up close to you, mutha fucka, then we go out away ... no mally we touch two bottles - both bottle bfore comin back and touchin you...  This mean you okay fo awhile...  If we go out away, and we touch ONLY ONE BOTTLE bfore comin back and touchin you - you gonna hear a click from a gun bhind you and then its gonna be bout ten seconds...  Remember that number ten - then thats when the end come... What end I talk bout Johnnie? - I talk about THE END, FUCKA-  That head will go every parta this room... I talk bout NO MO JOHNNIE...  I think you understand now - we play game.
reggie		 I cant stop her, Johnnie...  She gets me too hot doin this...  Im gonna be right here, but Im gonna stand right behind ya with this big ol gun here...
drop shadow		Thats a Marine issue.  It goes off somethin terrible - you wanna see?
juana		You hear click?
reggie		 Hell, its even worse than I remember...  Wait a minute...
juana		Okay, gimmee nother kiss, Reggie bfore I fuck ya right now... FUCKIN HOT NOW, REGGIE.  FUCKIN HOT!
juana		You think you gonna live through this night?...  YOU WRONG...  I SMELL YO SHIT NOW, JOHNNIE.  GIVE US ONE MO KISS, REGGIE.  OH FUCK ME!!!  WE TOUCH BOTTLES NOW - FO WE CANT WAIT NO MO.
juana		I go out now...  I toucha one bottle... Reggie...  I toucha two bottle... I come back, I touch Johnnie...  AHHHHH ...  I touch myself...  HA!...  Now I go out - I toucha one bottle...  Do I touch second bottle?... I go now and touch...  OH OH...  Okay... This time I toucha second bottle...  I go back, I touch Johnnie...  Then I go back - I kiss Reggie with big gun... Oh God, Reggie done got two big guns... HAH!!!...  I go out now...  SO FUCKIN HOT NOW, MAYBE TOO FUCKIN HOT NOW, FUCKA.  I toucha one bottle...  DO I GO TOUCH A SECOND BOTTLE?...  HUH? - I DO THIS TIME TOUCH SECOND BOTTLE - I RUN BACK TOUCH JOHNNIE - TOUCH REGGIE WITH TONGUE - TOUCH MYSEF IN HOT FUCKIN PUSSY - GO OUT NOW...  NOW I GO ROUND AND ROUND YOU AHHHH - GO OUT AND TOUCH A NUMBER ONE BOTTLE - WAIT NOW!!! ...  REGGIE...  YOU SHOW NOW-
reggie		I forgot to show you this.  The gentlemen that gave this to me said youd recognize it.  Said he wanted itd be bout the last thing you ever saw in this life.
johnnie		 Oh God...  OH GOD...  Santos... Oh God Marietta ... are you in on this?...  OH GOD!!!
juana		I GO ROUND AND ROUND - DO I TOUCH A SECOND BOTTLE BFORE I TOUCH JOHNNIE - DO I?  DO I???.........  No...  I touch Johnnie.
juana		 One ... two ... three ... four ... five ... GETTIN TOO FUCKIN HOT, REGGIE...  FEELIN MYSEF ... six ... seven ... eight...
juana		Nine...  FUCK ME NOW, REGGIE...  TEN!!!
juana		FUCK ME!!!!
lula		Sure is a big deal round here... Alamo Road, Alamo Street, Alamo Square, Alamo Buildin, Alamo Alamo.  They aint forgettin about it in a hurry.  Thats the thing bout memory?  Some things you wish you could forget...  Whats troublin you, sugar?
sailor		You know, Lula, I never told you what all I was doin before I met you.
lula		I just figured you was out bein Mr. Cool...
sailor		Not exactly, sugar...  One reason were in all the trouble were in right now is cause of what I was doin...  I tried to tell you this before...
lula		Youre scarin me, baby.
sailor		Well, theres a good side as well as a bad side to it...  The good side is I knew your daddy, and I thought Clyde was a good ol guy...
lula		You knew my daddy?
sailor		Yes I did...  I sure did...  The bad side of it is I did some drivin for a man named Marcello Santos...
lula		Oh shit...
sailor		I quit workin for im, but just before I did, I ended up one night at a house...  I dont know what it is they all think I saw that night, but I was just sittin out in the car till the whole place went up in flames.
lula		God, Sailor...  Thats the night my daddy died.
sailor		I know, sugar...  But while the place was burnin...  Before Santos came out - I pitched some rocks at the second floor windows case anyone was upstairs sleepin...  Afterwards... When I met you, I always liked to think I mighta saved your life.
lula		Thats some big secret you been carryin, Sailor.
sailor		We all got a secret side, baby.  Hope you dont think I been lyin to you bout other things, sugar.
lula		Howd you know my daddy?
sailor		Lula, you there?
lula		Yeah, Im here.
sailor		You upset with me?
lula		No, Sailor darlin.  Just shockin sometimes when things arent the way you thought they were...  I been carryin a secret too...
lula		 That night in the fire while my daddy was dyin...  I saw mama up in her room with Santos...
lula		...They was laughin arm in arm like animals.
sailor		I didnt want to say it ... but I had a feelin Santos was up to somethin with your mama...
lula		 So Sailor, our histories have been somewhat intertwined.
sailor		They have, sugar.
lula		I take that as a sign that we were destined by fate to be together.
sailor		Its a comfortin idea.
lula		Well, were really out in the middle of it now, aint we?
sailor		Theres worse places, honey.
lula		If you say so.
sailor		Trust me on it.
lula		 I do trust you, Sailor.  Like I aint never trusted nobody before.
sailor		 Well be alright, peanut, long as weve got room to move.
lula		 Whats that?
sailor		I dont know...  Looks like clothes.
lula		Oh God, Sailor.
sailor		One bad car accident...
lula		SAILOR!!!
lula		Sailor, what are we gonna do?
sailor		I dont know, honey, but we gotta help that girl - get her to a town and hope no one catches on I broke parole.
girl		 Ive got about five hundred dollars in my wallet and I cant find it... My mothers going to kill me.  Its got all my cards in it...  It was in my pocket...  Now my pockets gone. MY PURSE IS GONE!!!  NOW SHE TELLS ME.
sailor		Lets get ahold a her quick.
lula		You think shes gonna make it?
sailor		Dont know, but shes gonna bleed all over our car, Ill tell ya that...  Hey...  Hello...  Girl...  You gotta come with us, honey.
girl		OWWW GOD!!!  LEAVE ME ALONE... ROBERT!!!...  Shit, I got this damn sticky stuff in my hair...
girl		Gotta find my wallet.  Dont you say one word of this to my mother.  God, shes gonna kill me.
girl		WHERES MY HAIRBRUSH?...
lula		I cant take this, Sailor.  Shes dyin right in front of our eyes...
sailor		Im afraid she is, baby.
girl		 Its in my purse.
lula		She died right in front of me.  Whyd she have to go and do that, Sailor?
sailor		Lets get outta here, honey.
sailor		Well, it aint exactly Emerald City...
lula		Not quite as bad as the weather though... It must be a hundred and ten and it aint even noon yet.
sailor		Thisll do.
sailor		Not bad for eleven dollars a day.
lula		No radio or TV...
lula		And no AC.
sailor		Fan works.
lula		Now what?
sailor		Lets get a sandwich and find out about some work.
lula		Sailor?
sailor		Yeah?
lula		This aint exactly my most thrillin notion of startin a new life.
lula		Im gonna stay here in this room, Sailor.  I dont feel so good?  This heat makes me tired.
sailor		Okay, honey, Ill see you later.
sailor		You Red?
red		 Well, I aint Blackie.
sailor		Names Sailor Ripley.  Katy over at the drugstore thought you might have some work I could do.
red		Things aint real hot right now. Rex, there though,  is about to relocate in about a week to San Angelo.  I might could use a man when he does...  You good with engines?
sailor		I aint no Enzo Ferrari, but they used to call me Wrench when I was a kid.
red		Well see how she goes then when Rex takes off.  Check back.
sparky		Hows it look?
red		Reckon the heads cracked, like I thought.
sparky		Shit, thats what I was afraid of.
red		Ill get you foreigners a beer.
buddy		 Im Buddy, and this heres Sparky.
sailor		My girl and I are lookin for a place to settle.  Were bunked down at the Iguana Motel.
sparky		So are we.  Its the only motel in Big Tuna.  Have you met Bobby Just Like The Country Peru yet?
sailor		No, we just got in a hour and a half ago.
buddy		You will.  Hes the Mr. Fix-It at the Iguana.  His truck broke down here a couple of months ago.
rex		Escaped con.  Man got some serious prison tattoos.
red		Everbody got a past.
buddy		Just some got more future in em than others.
rex		That aint no lie.
sailor		Been nice meetin yall.  Preciate the beer.  Ill be seein yall soon.
buddy		Very soon.
sparky		One thing about bein in Big Tuna: you dont have much choice about who you see and who you dont.
lula		That you, Sail, honey?
sailor		The only one.
lula		You find any work?
sailor		Maybe.  Met a guy named Red, owns a garage, could have some work in about a week.  Met a few hard luck boys whos stayin here.  Whats that smell?
lula		I barfed.  Tried to make it to the bathroom...  Turned out it was the wrong door anyways...  I sorta got it cleaned up.
sailor		You sick?
lula		A little, I think...  Darlin?
sailor		Yeah?
lula		Come sit by me.
lula		I dont know that this is the right place for us.
sailor		It aint gonna be forever, peanut.
lula		I know, Sailor.  Nothin is.
buddy		 Robert Brenton, twenty-five, was killed when his car went off the road on State Highway 118, according to the Department of Public Safety.  Brenton and two passengers, William Reese and Susan Day, were thrown from the automobile, reports said.
sailor		Susan Day...
tommy		Robert Brenton, that dumb fuck.  That stupid shit...  That fuckin Bob was so fuckin dumb...  He deserved to die...  That asshole.
buddy		Hey, Tommy...  Whats goin on over there in number four where al them bright lights are all the time?
tommy		Them are makin a pornographic movie... Texas style...  Why?  You wanna join in?
sparky		How do you get sixteen Haitians into a Dixie Cup?
lula		How?
sparky		Tell em it floats.
buddy		Sparkys big on Florida jokes.
sparky		You need a active sense of humor to survive in the Big Tuna.
bobby		Hey, everybody.
buddy		Sailor, Lula, this heres the man himself.  Bobby, this is Sailor and Lula, the most recent strandees, economic variety.
bobby		Bobby Peru, just like the country.
buddy		Accordin to Red and Rex, Bobbys the most excitin item to hit Big Tuna since the 86 cyclone sheared the roof off the high school.
sparky		Only in town two months and there aint a young thing around dont know how that cobra tattoo works, right, Bob?
lula		You from Texas, Mr. Peru?
bobby		Im from all over.
sailor		 You was in the Marines, huh?
bobby		Four years.
sparky		Bobby was at Cao Ben.
lula		Whats Cao Ben?
bobby		 How old are you?
lula		Twenty.
buddy		Lotta women and kids and old people died at Cao Ben.
bobby		March, 1968.  We torched a village and the government made a big deal out of it.
bobby		 You was on a ship, pardner.  Hard to make contact with the people when youre off floatin in the Gulf of Tonkin.
sparky		 Hey Bobby, have yourself another glass a Jack.
bobby		Dont mind if I fuckin do... Speakin a Jack...  One-eyed Jacks yearnin to go a peepin in a seafood store...  Good meetin you. Adios, boys.
lula		Somethin in that man scares me.
buddy		No shit.
sparky		 Bobbys got a way...  Cant shake that institution odor.
lula		Darlin, I still aint feelin so well.  Im goin to bed.
sailor		Ill come along.
sailor		Man, that barf smell dont fade fast.
sailor		Anything I can do for you?
lula		No, I dont think so, Sail.  I just need to lie down.
lula		Sailor?  You know what?
sailor		I know you aint particularly pleased bein here.
lula		Not that.  Look at what I wrote down cause I cant say it.
sailor		Its okay by me, peanut.
lula		Well, nothin personal, but I aint sure its okay by me.
lula		Really, Sailor, it aint nothin against you.  I love you.
sailor		Love you, too.
lula		I know.  Just Im sorta uncomfortable about the way some things is goin, and this dont help soothe me.
sailor		I know this aint easy, Lula, but I aint gonna let things get no worse, I promise.
bobby		Hey, pretty woman...  Sailor here?
lula		No, hes out changin the oil in the car.
bobby		Man, I gotta take a piss bad...  Can I use your head there?
lula		Well...  Yeah - okay.
bobby		I dont mean your head head - Im not gonna piss on your head - your hair an all...  Just piss in the toilet.  Yall take a listen - here a deep sound comin down from Bobby Peru.
perdita		 Oh...  Look at this...  What do you want, snakeskin?
sailor		Just passin through on my way to who knows where...
perdita		Sure...  I figured Id see you sometime...
sailor		Hopin you could tell me if theres a contract out on me.  I really need to know.
perdita		By who?
sailor		I think Santos or Marietta Fortune.
perdita		Heard you was goin out with that bitchs daughter.
sailor		You heard right.
perdita		You really are one dumb asshole.
sailor		Life is unpredictable.
perdita		Does that girlfriend of yours know that her mama and Santos killed her daddy?  Does she know you was around that night her daddy was set fire to?
sailor		I didnt see nothin...
perdita		Yeah...  But I did...  And I told you all about it...
sailor		Is there a contract?...  We made a deal once that wed tip each other off if we ever heard.
perdita		I know...  I remember.
sailor		Well?...
perdita		I aint heard of nothin.
sailor		Thanks...
bobby		Hey...  You gotta smell in this room of puke...  You been pukin in here, little girl?  Huh?...  You sick?... Pregnant?
lula		 You used the toilet, now you can go - what I do around here aint any of your business, thats for sure.
bobby		You know, I really do like a woman with tits like yours that talks tough and acts like she can fuck like a bunny...  Can you fuck like that?...  You like it like a bunny?... Huh?...  Cause baby, Ill fuck you like a real good like a big ol jack- rabbit bunny...  Jump all around in that hole...  Bobby Peru doesnt come up for air.
lula		Get out.
bobby		Am I scarin ya?...  Your pussy wet? ...  Come on ... is it?...  Hey, dont jump back so slow...  I thought you was a bunny...  Bunny jump fast - you jump back slow... Mean somethin, dont it?...  Means somethin to me...  Means you want Bobby Peru...  You want Bobby Peru to fuck you hard baby - open you up like a Christmas present.
bobby		Hey...  Im sorry...  I dont think Im bein too polite here ... and I apologize...  Hell...  A man sees a pretty woman and first thing he knows, he loses his manners...  Sure sign of modern times...  Next thing ya know, his old handll start crawlin around where it oughtnt to go...  Ill be real honest with ya... Id like to fuck you and tear you open like a paycheck envelope... Will you be honest with me - would you like me to do it?...  Just a simple yes or no...
bobby		Just feel me breathin on you... And youll know I mean business when it comes to fuckin.
lula		GET OUT!!!
bobby		Bobby Peru grab you now...  Hold you tight...  Feel everythin in you now...  Stay quiet...  Say fuck me and then Ill leave.
lula		 No way...  GET OUT!!!
bobby		Say it!...  ILL TEAR YOUR FUCKIN HEART OUT, GIRL...  Say fuck me soft - then Ill leave.  Say fuck me...  Whisper it...  Then Ill leave...  Say it...  Say it -  Say it -  Say it...
bobby		Say it...  Then Ill leave...  Whisper it...  Whisper it...  Whisper it... Whisper fuck me...
bobby		Whisper it...  Whisper fuck me... Whisper...  Whisper...  Whisper... Whisper...
lula		 Fuck me.
bobby		Someday honey, I will...  But I have to be goin now...  Conta i no joras...
lula		 Sailor...
bobby		Need a hand?
sailor		Thanks, Bobby, bout done.
bobby		How bout a beer?
sailor		Thatd be fine, Bobby.
bobby		Lets go by Rosaritas.  You been there yet?
sailor		No, havent heard of it.
bobby		Thought maybe Sparky and Buddyd taken ya.  Come on, Ill drive.
sailor		This your car?
bobby		 Hell, no, belongs to my girls sister. The sisters been over to New Orleans, lets us have it while shes gone. Wheres that pretty little lady of yours today?
sailor		Restin in our room.  She aint been feelin well.
bobby		Sorry to hear it.
sailor		New Orleans, huh?...  We was just there.
bobby		Used to be this was a Mobil.  Man converted it into a private club and named it after his wife.  She left him and he shot himself.  The wife owns it now.
bobby		No hard liquor here.  Just beer.
bobby		Couple Stars, Jimmy.
sailor		Thought you said this was a private club.  How come Im allowed in without bein a member?
bobby		You black?
sailor		No.
bobby		You an indian?
sailor		No.
bobby		Then youre a member...  Three or four millionaires in here right now.
sailor		 They look like a bunch of good ol boys to me.  I guess its oil money, huh?
bobby		Oil, gas, cattle, farmin.  Aint nobody shows off around here.  Iguana Countys one of the richest in Texas.
sailor		Wouldnta guessed it, thats sure.
bobby		Ready for another?
sailor		Why not?
bobby		Q-7, three times.  Pee Wee Kings Waltz of Regret, my favorite tune.
bobby		I been studyin a situation over in Lobo, take two men to handle it.
sailor		Whats that?
bobby		Feed store keeps up to five K in their safe.  Need me a good boy for back-up.  Even split.  You interested?
sailor		No...  I dont think so, man.
bobby		Be easy, Sailor.  Theres two employees. I take one in the back to open the safe, you keep the othern covered... You aint plannin on raisin a famly in Big Tuna, are ya?
sailor		 Whattaya mean family?
bobby		 Well...  I mean like Lula bein in a family way.
sailor		 Lula tell you shes pregnant?
bobby		Couple grand or mored give you two a leg up.  Get you to the west coast, Mexico, most anyplace, with a few dollars in your jeans.  I got it figured good, Sailor.
sailor		When did you talk to Lula?
bobby		Talked to her this afternoon... While you was out.
sailor		She really say she was pregnant?
bobby		 Just took a guess is all...  You in or out on this deal?
sailor		 I aint fuckin sure, Bobby.
bobby		Dont think about it too long.  You had enough?
sailor		 Have now.
bobby		Come on outside, I got somethin to show ya.
bobby		Thats a double-barreled, sawed-off, Ithaca shotgun with a carved pistol grip stock wrapped with adhesive tape. Next to its a cold Smith and Wesson .32 handgun with a six inch barrel. Thesell do er...  Loosen up that five grand...  Two and a half for you and the little lady...
bobby		How much money you have between the two aya right now?...
sailor		Forty bucks...
bobby		This is easy money, pardner...  No ones gonna get hurt in this thing... And I dont think you can afford not to take it...  Ill be bringin the Eldo round the front of the motel at ten tomorrow mornin...  If you aint a pussy - youll be there.
sailor		I dont particularly care for that kind of talk, Bobby.
bobby		Hey...  I never said you was a pussy... Always figured you had the big ol round balls for this kinda thing... Sure would set you and that pretty little girl up good.
sailor		Yeah ... yeah...  I guess so... That kinda moneyd get us a long way down that yellow brick road...
sailor		...But DAMN man...  This better go smooth.
bobby		Like takin candy from a fuckin baby...
lula		You been drinkin, huh?
sailor		Few beers is all.  Feelin any better?
lula		Cant tell yet.  Whered you go?
sailor		That smells still fillin this room good.
lula		Buddy and Sparky come by earlier.
sailor		 And Bobby too, I hear...
lula		 Yeah...  He was lookin for you.
sailor		You talk to im some?...
lula		Some...  Sparky said Reds promised to have him and Buddy out of here by the weekend.
sailor		Oughta make em happy.
lula		So whered you say you was?
sailor		 Went with Bobby.
lula		Sail?
sailor		Uh huh?
lula		Lets leave here.
sailor		Were goin to, Lula, real soon.
lula		I mean tomorrow.
sailor		We got about forty bucks, sweetheart. Thatd get us to El Paso.
lula		Rather be in El Paso than Big Tuna.
sailor		You shouldnt be smokin if youre pregnant.  Aint smart.
lula		Who says Im smart?  You up to somethin with Bobby Peru, Sailor?
sailor		What could I be up to, Lula?
lula		Hes a stone fuckin criminal, honey, and you aint.
sailor		I killed Bob Ray Lemon, didnt I?
lula		That was a accident.  I bet both our asses Bobby Peru done murdered all kinds of people, and meant it, too.
sailor		That was in Vietnam.
lula		Hes the kind liked it.
sailor		Lula, I got to get some sleep.
lula		Buddy told me about that thing at Cao Ben?
sailor		What?
lula		Was a massacre.  Soldiers there murdered old folks, women and babies, and dumped em in a trench.  Bobby Peru probly killed the most.
sailor		Lula, he mighta did, I dont know. But it dont matter now.  Lotta guys go outta control in a war and it aint their fault.
lula		I sure enjoy smokin, Sailor.  I hate that its bad for you.
lula		That mans a black angel, Sailor. You hook up with him, youll regret it.  If you live to.
lula		This whole worlds wild at heart and weird on top.
lula		 I wish you really, truly loved me... I wish youd sing me Love Me Tender ...  I wish I was somewhere over that rainbow...  Shit.  Shit, shit, shit.
bob ray		Hey Sailor...  Wait a minute...  I got somethin for ya.
bob ray		Shit, man...  Marietta says you been tryin to fuck her in the toilets for the past ten minutes...  You crazy fuckin bad boy tryin to fuck your girls mama...  How do you think that cute little cunt Lula would feel about that?  Hey, take a look at this...  Marietta just gave me this to kill you right now, and afterward she said Lula was mine to fuck all the way into next Sunday.
perdita		Nice of you to drop by.
bobby		Told ya I would.  You still riled?
perdita		 You still screwing sixteen-year-olds in the ass?
bobby		Aint never had no girl pull a blade on me.
perdita		Wish Id fuckin cut you up good.
bobby		You heard from Reggie?
perdita		Juana called.  Theyre stayin another week.
bobby		Stayin a few extra days in the big N.O., huh?  This you?
perdita		Yes.
bobby		Dont look like you.
bobby		The cobras waitin to strike, chica.
perdita		That guy Sailor came around this afternoon...  Asked me if there was a contract out on im.
bobby		 No shit?!?!  You know him?
perdita		Used to.
bobby		Whatd you say?
perdita		No, of course.
bobby		Thats right...  Could have a bad accident, though ... before ... durin ... or after a hold-up...
perdita		Whats gonna happen when he sees me drivin the car tomorrow?
bobby		Maybe hell get a little nervous, but who gives a shit?
bobby		 I knew we could be friends again...
bobby		Jump in back.
sailor		Whats she doin here?
bobby		Shes my girl...  Shes drivin... That bother you?
sailor		Why should it?
bobby		Thats right...  Take one of these.
sailor		What is it?
bobby		Panty hose.  Work bettern stockins. Pull one of the legs down over your face and let the other leg trail behind your head.  You get the pistol.  Remember, soon as we get inside, you keep that bad boy up where those hicks can see it.  Once they notice the Ithaca and the Smith, theyll know we aint foolin with em.
perdita		Comin up on it now, Bobby.
bobby		 Come on!  Get that mask on!
bobby		Keep it revved, Chiquita.  We wont be long.  Just goin in to get our five grand.
bobby		Into the back room, both of you, NOW!!!
bobby		 If anyone comes in, herd em back here quick.
deputy		Waitin for somebody, Miss?
perdita		Mi esposo.  Hes in the feed store picking up some supplies.
deputy		Youd best be careful of that cigarette, Maam.  Its about to burn down between your fingers.
perdita		Gracias, officer.
sailor		BOBBY!!!!  STOP IT, MAN!!!
bobby		Youre next, fucker.
marietta		Oh baby, I was beginnin to think I was never gonna see you again.
marietta		Youre comin home, precious.  Santos gonna drive us to the San Antonio airport.
lula		Mama, Sailors in deep trouble here. I just cant leave him.
marietta		Oh, yes, you can.
santos		Your mamas been real worried bout you, honey.  Me too...  Can you give your old friend Santos a hug, too?
lula		Im goin, mama.  No way I cant go.
marietta		You aint takin Pace, though.
lula		Course I am, mama.
marietta		 What times Sailors train get in?
lula		Six.
marietta		Got any plans?
lula		Figure well go have supper someplace. Maybe get some barbecue out by Stateline.  Sailor always liked that Havana Browns Pig Pickin.
marietta		Well, you be careful with that boy, Lula.
lula		Sailor aint a boy no more, mama.
marietta		Dont mean him.  Its Pace concerns me.
lula		Really, mama, I gotta go.
marietta		What if I asked you not to?
lula		Wouldnt make any difference.
marietta		What if I told you not to?
lula		 Mama ... if you get in the way of me and Sailors happiness, Ill fuckin pull your arms out by the roots.
pace		Howll we know what he looks like?
pace		Mama, you almost crashed us.
lula		Dont give me no trouble now, Pace, please.  This aint the easiest day in a long time.  And what do you mean how are we gonna know what your daddy looks like?  You seen his photo.
pace		Howll he know what we look like? He seen our photo?
lula		Damn it, child!  Now look what you made me do.
pace		What I made you do, mama?
lula		Nothin, honey.  Mamas just actin strange.
pace		You aint actin, mama.
lula		Why, Pace Roscoe Ripley, aint you got one cute mouth tonight?
wheelchair man		Hey man...  HEY...  Same fuckin thing happened to me last year...
pace		I still aint sure what my daddy looks like.
lula		Like you, sweetheart.  You and your daddy got the same mouth, eyes, ears, and nose.  Only difference is your color hair is like mine.
pace		My daddy aint never killed nobody, has he, mama?
lula		Course he aint never killed nobody. Whyd you say that, Pace?
pace		Heard grandpa Santos and grandmama talkin.
lula		And?
pace		Grandmama said how Sailor murdered a man.
lula		Wrong, baby.  Your daddy never committed no murder.  Musta been you didnt hear grandmama proper.  He made some mistakes, is all.  Your daddy aint always been so lucky...  Were almost at the depot, honey.  Sit back a minute.
pace		Why we sittin here, mama?
lula		Thinkin a second, baby.
pace		Im scared, mama.
lula		Why, honey?
pace		Case daddy dont like me.  What if he dont like that I dont got his color hair.
lula		Pace, your daddyd love you even if you didnt have no hair at all.
lula		Still partial to Camels, huh?
sailor		First pack of tailor-mades I had in a while.
sailor		You must be my son.
lula		Shake hands with your daddy.
sailor		Pleasure to meet you, Pace.  I read a lot about you.
lula		You hungry?  Pace and I aint had dinner yet.
sailor		Lead the way.
sailor		No rag top, huh?
pace		Whats wrong, mama?
sailor		 Dont worry, son.  Just stay here.
lula		Im sorry, Sailor.  I just cant help it.  Give me a minute and Ill quit.
sailor		Boys frightened, Lula.  This aint no good.
lula		Really, Sail, Ill be okay.
sailor		Its a mistake, honey.  You two go on. Ill walk back to the depot.
lula		Whatre you talkin about?  Thats your son in there.
sailor		He aint never known me, Lula, so there aint much for him to forget. Not seein each other for six years makes it next best to simple for us, too.
lula		How can you say that, Sailor?
sailor		What makes sense, is all.
lula		Dont do this, Sailor, please.
sailor		 Oiga, amigo.  If ever somethin dont feel right to you, remember what Pancho said to The Cisco Kid... Lets went, before we are dancing at the end of a rope, without music.
sailor		You been doin fine without me, peanut. There aint no need to make life toughern it has to be.
sailor		What do you faggots want?
good witch		Sailor Ripley...
sailor		The Good Witch...
good witch		Sailor...  Lula loves you.
sailor		But Im a robber and a manslaughterer and I havent had any parental guidance.
good witch		Shes forgiven you of all these things ...  You love her...  Dont be afraid, Sailor.
sailor		But Im wild at heart.
good witch		If you are truly wild at heart, youll fight for your dreams...  Dont turn away from love, Sailor...  Dont turn away from love...  Dont turn away from love.
gang member		You had enough, asshole?
sailor		Yes, I have...  And I wanna apologize to you gentlemen for referring to you as homosexuals.  I also want to thank you fellas, youve taught me a valuable lesson in life.  LULA!!!!
sailor		LULA!!!!
lula		SAILOR!!!!
****Dialogues from script :Wild_Bunch.txt****

narrator		To most of America in 1913, the Age of Innocence had arrived and the stories of the Indian Wars and the Gold.RuSh and the Great Gunfighters had become either barroom ballyhoo or front-porch remiraiscences... .But on both sides of the $io Grande men still lived as thia7 had in the 1 70's and 1 80's -- unchanged. men in a changing land. THEY WEAR THE KHAKI UNIFORMS OF THE UNITED STATES CnVALJRY.. The horses bear the government brand and the saddles are regulation. PIKE BISHOP,. wearing lieutenant's bars, rides slightly ahead of the others. He rides stiffly; always slightly in pain... Pike is a not unhandsome, leather-faced man in his early forties. A thoughtful, self-educated top gun with a penchant for violence who is afraid of nothing - except the. changes in himself and those around him. Make no mistake, Pike Bishop is not a hero -- his values are not ours -- he is a gunfighter, a criminal, a bank. robber, a killer of men. His sympathies are not for fences, for trolleys.and telegraphs or better schools. He lives outside and against society because he believes in that way of life and if he has moments of sympathy for others, moments of regret, t hey ' are short lived. He is not a 'good man' according to the righteous... To them he is totally bad, and he wouldn't have it any other way. Next to him DUTCH ENGSTROM wears the uniform of a sergeant. Dutch is big good-natured with a fast gun hand, strong loyalty and, like Pike, a bone deep distaste for rules and regulations. He can sing,. has more than his share of charm, but believes in nothing except two men, and Pike is one. Behind them ride two brothers, LYLE and TECTOR GORCH, dressed as corporals. Lyle and Tector are big, tough, hot tempered and sudden. They work together, eat together and
dutch		Make you feel welcome?
tec tor		What's it say?
angel		 It invites us to stay with the community and grow. It is here, perhaps with time and small miracle -- that you could be taught to read.
tector		I never enlisted to serve with no smart-mouthed kid.
angel		Nor I with dogs.
dutch		 ITd like to transfer to another unit -- there seems to be dissension in the ranks.
pike		 Itll transfer both of you -- just one more word. They look at him silently. He means it. Finally Tike spurs his horse and the group sta'ts for town, CAMERA PANNING. THEM PAST. THE STATt.ON AM BOXCARS into a side street.
pike		(after a moment, a little
buck		Real quiet, 'sir.' Pike looks at the horses, then at:
pike		 Beg pardon, Ma'am.
dutch		 Let. me, Ma'am. Dutch picks up the package, Pike offers the lady his arm. She hesitates, accepts. Pike and Dutch, followed by the others, lead her across the 'street.
harrigan		Pike?
thorn ton		 He's there. The bounty hunters react and prepare to fire. Over this shot is the sound of Pike calling to Thornton -- from the past. 19 PIKE REACHES THE DOOR AND WITHOUT PAUSING, murmurs 'goodbye' to the lady and enters, followed by the others, 20 ON THE ROOF, HARRIGAN WHIRLS ON HIS MEN as they begin aim- ing, ready to fire..
harr igan		That's all we needed:
paymaster		What -you meant to do does not interest me What you did -- Then, seeing: 24 PIES AND THE OTHERS waiting, he steps to the ody window, smiling with the thought that their visit means. military business for the railroad. His mood. changes as the men draw their\guns and Pike steps towards him.
pike		If they move, kill them. C.L. grins happily and squats on the floor, his 12 gauge pump shotgun angled up at:
earrigan		Damn them! The parade moves toward the saloon.
harri gan		Told-what!? Sus t how. long do you think anyone in this manure pile can keep his mouth shut? Before Thornton can answer: 30 T..C.. SHIFTS TO CHANGE POSITION and his hand. touches the tin roof, ,causing him to.yelp with pain.. The others snap a look in his. direction, then freeze as: 31 'VECTOR ON THE BOARDWALK. LOOKS UP,. SEES NOTHING, leans back against a rail watching the horses and the hymn singers. After a moment, he smiles a little, beating time,. as he remembers some forgotten march he watched from his daddy's shoulders.
margaret		Trash -- Filthy trash!
angel		People marching and singing coming down the street -- going to pass near the horses.
angel		Rifles -- one -- no three,. maybe more, on the roof.
pike		Waiting for us
dutch		How in hell could they have known we were coming?
pike		How in hell do I know?
dutch		Where do we go?
pike		No, son -- we got company there too --  -Besides, when I travel, I like my feet to dangle.
pike		 No. You just hold them here and wait as long as you can -- after the shooting starts.
coffer		Well, just dig it out and see. if it ain't my,... 06 S
harri gan		 You stupid damn fools! ... How could you shoot this employee and let the others get away?
coffer		 He's lying'. Him and them others was shootin' that old 'employee' full of holes while I was droppin' this bandit and them others too -- I must've killed all three of 'em, sir, while --
thornton		 Harrigan:.. He shot the old an -
benson		We're holding you -- your whole damned rail- road responsible for this carnage --
harrigan		Mr. Benson...o
wainscoat		 Innocent people are dead ...women mangled -- dying --because you used our town as a battlefield; You're going to pay, sir -- your-railroad is going to pay for our blood;
harrigan		 Without the railroad this place would still be a lousy little pueblo, so don't make any threats to me;
benson		 You can't ambush innocent people. on our street!
harrigan		We represent the law!
harrigan		I pulled. you out of jail to get- that bunch -- and you failed --
harrigan		What.makes you think there'll be a next time for you? What makes you think you're not going back behind bars for twenty more years? Thornton's face twists as he hears again the clanging of cell doors and the whimpering of prisoners..
thornton		Because I'm all you've got  Because you know I'll get him -- I'll kill him rather than go-back.
harri gan		Twice .he' s made a fool of me - He never will again.  You know why you're here -- (before Thornton can
tho rnton		 IT 11 get him -- you have my word.
angel		Fijate. 94 BUCK, ON HIS HANDS AND KNEES, MOANS WITH PAIN as he attempts to crawl up the slope. 95 PIKE RIDES DOWN TO HIM,. SWINGS OFF EIS HORSE and stands looking down.
buck		 Finish it, Mr. Bishop.
pike		 You boys want to move on -- or stay here and give him a 'decent burial'.?
tector		 Well,. he was a good man --
lyle		Too damn many.
lyle		 Crazy bastards -- both of you l Tector follows his brother, cursing.. 101 PIKE AND DUTCH LOOK AT EACH OTHER silently -- try to grin -- finally make it -- then follow. The bunch is attentive, but now certain that they are not being closely followed, they can relax a little.. Pike and Dutch are side by side.
lyle		 Old friends?
dutch		Deke Thornton.
lyle		I thought he was your partner?
dutch		'He changed -- you didn't.'
pike		- You.sound like you're all caught up,
thornton		Caught up enough to know we've overstayed our welcomes
pike		 What in hell is the matter with you?
elizabeth		Stay -- please,
thornton		How can you be. so damned sure? He shakes off the girl, crosses to a sideboard, pours a drink..
deputy		Get him? The man shakes his head. 101-G THORNTON, HIS FACE TWISTED WITH PAIN AND BITTERNESS, makes no attempt to struggle as he .is pulled to his feet and moved out the door.
pike		He's had five years on the r ck pile, Dutch -- and twenty more to u go -- that.can hurt a man.
lyle		 Say -- I've heard it's like the.old times in Argentina...3utch Cassidy down. there making a killing...
pike		Fo -- but he takes a dim view of 20 more years in the Carcel --
thornton		Tell me, Mr. Harrigan.-- how does it feel?  -Getting paid to sit back and hire your killings with the law's arms around you? How does it feel to be so damned right;?
harr igan		 Good, Mr..Thornton...it feels good.
harrigan		 Use them -- lead them -- get Pike -- then kill them off. When you come back, I: want all of them head down over a saddle. (pointing to the bunkhouse
lyle		What's so 'lindo about it.
change		 2/12/68  22.  INT. RAILROAD BUNKHOUSE - DAY
harrigan		The hard money value of the men killed less my commi.sson amounts to. one hundred and fifty dollars. 104 THE MEN MUMBLE AND SHIFT. Harrigan holds up four wanted posters. The bounty hunters move closer for a better look.
harrigan		Bishop... .Engstrom... .Lyle and Tector Gorch...are worth a total of four thousand five hundred dollars -- and you let them all ride outs  Any one'of these pelts would not only clear you with the company,.but would mean a bundle of cash to raise hell with. Harrigan stands, crosses to the door.
harrigan		There won't be any tonight -- you move after them in ten minutes -- . But if one of you quits on me I'll pay a thousand dollar bonus to the man who kills him. 105 THE MEN SILENTLY BEGIN TO PACK THEIR BELONGINGS. Harrigan motions to Thornton, then exits.
harrigan		Why should I let you go with them?
harrigan		You could just ride off -- even join him again -- you'd like that, wouldn't .you?
thornton		What I like and what I. need are two different things.
harr igan		All right..
thornton		I need good men: You saw what happened today.
harrigan		We'll -see what it's worth -- five minutes.
tector		Just more of Texas as far as I'm concerned.
angel		You have no eyes. And he rises ahead with Pike and'Dutch across the tracks into Mexico.
thornton		 V All rightt... .How many of you killed this one?
coffer		I knowed I wounded' three -- but I wasn't sure about --
thornton		(as the others yell in
thornton		This pelt should clear you up -- take him back to town...and tell Harrigan to get me a list of every Army garrison and payroll schedule on the border.  We got another half hour of light and they might be just up ahead counting their money.
sykes		Them others ain't comin'?
pike		No.
sykes		 None of 'em? 111 PIKE TAKES THE BAGS OUT OF THE CORRAL TO THE FIRE that burns near an adobe wall and drops them on a poncho, watches as the others do the same.
sykes		 But I got horses and gear for all them fellers like you said --
pike		They won't need them -- we will. Sykes thinks this over, finally nods. a little and turns away. 115 LYLE AND HIS BROTHER AND DUTCH STAND in a half. circle around the poncho. waiting. Angel, the last, drops his saddle bag, then crosses to the wall and drops down to rest. For a long moment the men look down.a-t the pile of saddle bags.
lyle		About the sharing up...
lyle		(whining; pointing to
tector		And I figure a 'share to that old man for watching the horses is a share too much. ll& PIKE TAKES A KNIFE OUT OF HIS BELT, opens a saddle bag,. takes out a sack of silver, kneels to slit the bag open.
lyle		You hear me, Pike? -- I said it ain't fair... Pike stands,. flips the knife into the ground, faces the brothers.
pike		 Well,..why don't you answer me, you dapnned yellow.-livered trash? The brothers fide, et., look at each other.
lyle		Ah.--' Pike, you know...
pike		 I don't know a damned thing except I either lead this bunch or I end it -- right now;
lyle		No, sir -- we divide just as you say. Pike looks at them a moment, then picks up his knife and alicea open a bag and -turns it upside down and dumps the contents onto the spread-out poncho watching as:
tector		Rings:, Steel rings!
pike		 Son of a bitch! 121 LYLE'S BOOT FLASHES INTO THE PILE. The washers fly in all directions. Lyle whirls on Pike.
lyle		Washers...we shot our way out of that town for a dollar's worth of steel holes. He kicks into the pile and scatters Washers across the clearing.
pike		They set it up:
lyle		. Who the hell is 'they!!?
sykes		 Caught you, didn't they? Tied a tin can to your tail -- didn't they? Lead you in and waltzed you out -- Oh my what a bunch -- big tough ones -- standing around with a handful of holes -- a thumb up your ass and a big grin to pass the time of day with. 122 TECTORSWINGS AT HIM, BUT THE OLD MAN DUCKS, then falls and rollsaway, still laughing. Tector starts'to follow, Pike stepsbetween them.
pike		Railroad men -- Pinkertons -- bounty
sykes		 Deke Thornton? -- He was with. them?
lyle		(as Pike doesn't answer;
angel		. Hey, gringo; You take my share.
angel		Don't kill me, gringo ...por favor... Take my share of the 'silver' -- but
pike		,k for it I Tector-, looking at Angel's gun, half turns to Pike.
dutch		 What's our next move?
pike		Agua Verde is the closest three days maybe -- then we sell the extra stock -- get some griib and the news and drift back to the border -- maybe a payroll -- maybe abank --
tec tor		That railroad sire bsi hell ain't getting 4ny easier.
lyle		 All your fancy planning and talk damn near got us shot to pieces for.some lousy bags of washers... Now this was goin.' to be our last job before we head south ...We spent all our time and money getting ready for this.
lyle		 He --.he was making plans while me and Tector was -- He breaks up and can't continue.
dutch		 By two -- mind you, two -- Hondo whores -- while Pike's dreaming of washers - you're matching two of them -- in tandem And the wild bunch falls apart in laughter -- even Pike is caught, but as he laughs, he knows that they are together again.
thornton		Not close enough... They're across the border by now. -
coffer		Deke - you rode with. Pike -- what kind of a man are we up against?
thornton		 The best --
fess		How was it -- then mm  You know -- in the old days? I only come out here last spring.
thornton		 You can saddle up or shut up -- take your choice --
coffer		 "What will he do?
thornton		That's what I have to figure.
coffer		Maybe they'll split up.
thornton		No -- not 'that. bunch. They'll try again. - -
pike		Didn't you run some kind of mine -- in Sonora?
dutch		Yeah, I helped run a little copper -- nothing for us there except day wages, if it was running now -- which it ain't.
pike		Why in the hell, did you ever quit it?
dutch		Why in hell are you still goin'?
pike		I don.'t know"any better -- maybe don't want any better,  Hell, I wouldn't know what to do with 'better' if it poked me.in the eye with a sharp stick.
dutch		 You -never gave it :a chance9 Pike.
dutch		You got a halfway hard mouth, partner.
pike		What in hell do you want me to-say ,-?
dutch		Just don't give me, no lectures.. They are silent -- finally:
dutch		Back off to what?  Any real ideas for a next one? Pike closes his eyes and leans back.
pike		Pershing. has. got men spread over the whole border. Everyone of those garrisons is going to be.gptting payroll.
dutch		That kind of information is kind of. rough to come by.
pike		 Well -- I don't figure it's going to .be easy, but it can be done.
pike		I wouldn',t have it any other way.
coffer		Why not ?..
thornton		He'll be back.
coffer		Harrigan ' said something about thirty days --
thornton		 That's what he said,
dutch		You must have hurt that railroad pretty bad -- they spent a lot of time and money getting that ambush set up for us.
pike		 Well, I caught up to them -- two or three times -- There was a man named Harrigan -- He had a certain way of doing things -- So I made him change his ways -- when you do that to a narrow man -- he can't live with it - from then on he's got to change you -- break you -- just to prove he's.right -- there-'s a hell of a lot of people, Dutch -- that just can't stand to be wrong.
dutch		Pride, I guess
pike		I guess -- but they can't ever forget it -- that pride that being wrong or learn by it.
dutch		 And you -- and me --did we learn -- being wrong today?
dutch		Where'd you find him?
pike		. That toothless old wreck was a real gun about twenty years back -- used to run with Thornton and me killed his share and more -- around ----Langery -- Ambushed stages all along that old board highway.,.He had those Swede immigrants so scared theyQd starve rather than go to town and by beans for their kids, and there wasn't a sheriff in. the territory to take issue -- He laughs, drinks the coffee and gags..
dutch		 - Pike, I wouldn?t have it no other -way aither.
pike		Leave him alone!
pike		 If you can't do that you're worse than some animal -- you're finished -- we're finished -- all of us! Tector looks at him silently. 148 PIKE TURNS TO MOUNT THE HORSE. Placing his foot in the stirrup he stiffly starts to swing on. The leather breaks and. he falls under the animal. Landing on his back, he lets out a loud shriek.
lyle		Riding with 'Brother Pike' and old .man Sykes makes a man wonder if it ain't time to pick up his chips and-find another game.
tector		 How in hell are you going to side any- body if you can't get on a horse. 152 PIKE LOOKS AT THEM, THEN STEPS onto the makeshift stirrup and mounts, concealing his pain, taking a few seconds to gather up the reins and position himself. In the b.g., Dutch swings onto his horse.
pike		Were about two hours from the Santa Caterinas. He turns and rides toward the mountains, the men following.
sykes		That was a mighty fine talk you gave the boys 'bout stickin' to- gether. (as Pike doesn't
pike		We started together -- we'll end it together.
sykes		By God, that's the way I see it -- that's the way it's always been with me...Sorry 'bout Deke - never figured him that way,  Back in. San. Rafael -- my boy how' d. he do? They ride for a while in silence as: Pike. thinks this over, finally:. _
pike		Your boy2
sykes		C.L. -- Clarence Lee -- my daughter's boy ---not too bright, but a good boy -- He handle higself all right? -- I told him -- you do -- just what Mister Bishop says -- Did he conduct hisself well?
pike		 He did fine --
sykes		Well, you had enough on your mind He had to pull his weight just like the rest of us -- just wanted to know he didn't let you down -- run. when things got hot --
pike		 No ---he did fine...just fine.
coffer		That culvert -- good place for them ----to make an ambush.
thornton		Go on - ride up and find out. Coffer hesitates, his -ayes wide with fear. Thornton draws his gun, pulls back the hammer.
thornton		 Next time I want advice from any of you scum I'll ask for it -- until then, keep . your mouths shut and do what y-ou' re to ld%
coffer		 All clear"'--
coffer		From here on, its Mexico, Mr, Thornton.
thornton		What's the closest town of any size2
thornton		What's in Agua Verde?
coffer		Mexicans -- what else.  Headquarters for Huerta regulars. fighting Obregon, led by an old time bandit named Mapache. Thornton thinks about this, then mounts and rides back in the direction they have come from.
coffer		Don't-we follow?
thornton		No -- we wait.
thornton		'Twenty-eight days.
dutch		 We're not going to find much down here., That damned Huerta' s scraped it clean.
angel		 My village is up there ...in those mountains.
pike		So --?
angel		I wish to visit my f amily...I can do it and meet you in Agua Verde a day of ter you get there.
pike		How?
angel		Going this way, you will. have to turn east when you get south of the range... I-know the way to cross the mountains.
dutch		If you know a shorter way..': show us. Angel looks away and is silent for several seconds.
pike		Ashamed of having us meet your people?
pike		Far as Ifm concerned, you can go,
lyle		(dismounting, joining
dutch		That sounds right to me..
pike		Looks like I'm outvoted.
pike		Wants to visit his folks alone -- thinks we're a little rank for his people.
lyle		 I think he can go straight to hell.
tector		Probably wants to get a bunch of his _people and waylay us!
dutch		And take what? Tector thinks this over, doesn't answer.
pike		 How do' you want it?
angel		 Any violence -- any disrespect -- and I will. kill you. Tector and Lyle look at him without expression for a moment, then:.
lyle		You got a sister?
angel		...Yes.
lyle		I would be proud to.make her acquaint- ance -- and. that of your Mama, too.
tector		 And your Grandmaw too, sonny... Angel looks at them, then mounts, rides toward the mountains
thornton		You have something to say? Coffer instantly lifts his hands in submission and shakes his head. Then, after a moment:
coffer		They say Freddy Sykes is with them -- you rode with the old man, didn't you, Mr. Thornton -- you and Pike and the old man? But Thornton rides on and doesn't answer.
carmen		Miha -- trigame auga.por los frijolesl The girl jumps to her feet, hands both men a bucket ,
pike		Hard to believe.
don jose		Not so hard -- we all dream of being a-child again -- even the worst of us -- perhaps the worst most of all..
pike		 You know us, then --
don jose		I know myself only -- where I have been, what I have done.
pike		Like to ride with us, old man? And for a moment, the old man's eyes flash as he watches: 162- DUTCH AND THREEVILLAGERS SHOEING a very small, very mean 16L. mule. All four have been drinking a little and are thoroughly enjoying themselves as is the mule as he pitches and knocks them all sprawling..
don jose		-- I am too old. (almost cursing, indicating
sykes		Hell, you ain't so old; partner.
don jose		They were many -- who shot -- your father resisted like a man and died like a man -- names in this matter have no importance.  I lie -- I ran --
sykes		Joe --'by God I like you. I like a man who tells the truth.
don jose		 Mapache.
angel		That is.name enough.
pike		The Federal. troops they don? t. protect you --
icon jose		They were Federal troops; -- commissioned by the traitor Huerta -- seven of the village were killed --.our horses and cattle and corn stolen -- all in the name of Huerta, the killer of our President Francisco I.. Madero -- In Mexico, Senor - these are the years of sadness.
angel		(after a long moment,
don jose		Gone.
don jose		No -- she went with them because she wished to. She became the woman of Mapache -- and others -- she went with them laughing -- Drunk with wine and love. Angel, knowing it's true, turns and moves away. Pike looks after him.'
don jose		To him she was a goddess. To be wor- shipped from afar -- with music and flowers -- a deity to be followed and adored at a dis -nee but Mapache -' knew she was a mango -- ripe and waiting...
pike		-So Angel lives with a dream -- while Mapache eats the mango --
don jose		Just so -
pike		Many times -- and with the mango too.
pike		I never could carry a candle to you, old timer.
don jose		 And. which do you prefer, the dream or the taste?
pike		I dream when I sleep -- and eat when I'm hungry.
don jose		 Just so  -- the both of you and Map-ache and I --
angel		Where is Mapache?;
thornton		Ride ahead, all of you. And they do, riding toward Harrigan as we.,
don jose		Why do you wish to know -- for your father - or the whore? Pike looks up as Angel fights within himself to find an answer,
angel		As you say, Jefe - to Agua Verde and 'our business.'
dutch		All soldiers - not a bounty hunter in sight.
pike		We'll go. have a drink, then try and sell the horses.
sykes		'Who'.s going to buy -- looks to me like. this place has been picked clean.
angel		 He's been here; 186 THE HORSES PUT THEIR EARS BACK and whinny nervously as an incredible noise is heard off scene. The men snap their heads.around and look at:
pike		I seen one just like this in Waco...
lyle		Run on steam?
pike		No...alcohol:...or gasoline. 190 FREDDY SYKES EDGES UP CLOSE TO PIKE. He is anxious to make a. statement and he speaks to him as he walks around the car.
sykes		Pike... .I heard about one they got up north that. kin fly; Pike nods sagely. Te.ctor Gorch on the other side of the car hears the remark.
pike		No,. the old man's right. They -got t em now with motors and wings -- cover 60 miles in less than an hour...goin' to use them in the war, they say.  This could cover. 30 miles in an hour -- ' cording to the road, of course.
dutch		That could run a horse right into the ground.
pike		Not that easy -- these automobiles can't stand.any rough ground -- or hot sun like a horse ---they're for show mostly. 191 TECTOR TOUCHES A FENDER AND ONE of the guards spurs toward him, cursing in Spanish. Tector backs off,. hands in the air.
tector		I was just going to touch th.,e damn thing, not marry it.
angel		Un gigante de miquina -- Ha de tenor una fuerza tremenda. 
guard		-La fuerza.do 1,000 caballos. 
angel		Y el dueno -- un general por lo menos. 
guard		Mapache? Mis que un general - un hombre hecho para reinar todo Mexico, si Dios quiere. 
pike		You're here with us,pardner -- any business you got with the general comes after we finish ours -- and that is selling horses..
angel		 As you wish. He turns away, Pike grabs him, jerks him back,
dutch		 Angel -- who does this thing belong to?
angel		 Es el carrazo oficial de.su excelencia el Generalisimo Mapache. Dutch turns smiling and tells the others.
dutch		The official carrazo of the Pache Generalisimo. CONTINUED
pike		Let's get some beer and talk to the general about his automobile and our extra horses,,.nice and easy. The men turn and follow him into the cantina.
emma		Diga?
pike		Beers.. six cervesas,
emma		Como? Angel remains silent, looking at the General,
dutch		Seii cervesas. The girl leaves to' get the order. The men at the table look around the cantina. At a nearby table a group of men are throwing dice and laughing loudly. The mariachis are gather- ing around Mapache.. Lyle shifts in his chair to look at them. 198 MAPACHE IS LAUGHING AND DRINKING. The German. leans close to Zamorra and speaks in Spanish.
mohr		Do you know these Americans?
zamorra		No. The German settles back in his.chair and. begins placing a cigarette in a holder.
tector		Probably talking about us behind our backs. 200 DUTCH TURNS TO PIKE WHO IS QUAFFING a large beer.
dutch		I'm down to about twenty in silver...
pike		The G3neralisimo has cleaned this part a of the country ...He ought to have it to spare.
dutch		Generalisimo hell -- he's just a damn bandit grabbing all he can for himself.
dutch		No sir -- we don't.hang nobody or torture them -- I hope the people here kick him and the rest of the scum like him right into-their graves.
angel		We will if it takes a thousand years: Then suddenly, he reacts to the sound of a girl's voice off scene.
teresa		Vamos:...te va. gustar el Alenman: Angel. spins around in his chair watching as: 202 TWO PRETTY MEXICAN GIRLS, TERESA AND RASA, laughing and giggling, pass-the table.
angel		.Teresa; He reaches out and grabs the better looking of the two by the arm.
rosa		Llamo los otros!
teresa		No, Vete, ahorita vengo; Pike and Dutch tense as Angel stands and jerks her toward him, -
pike		Let her go! 203 ANGEL LOOKS AT THE GIRL, furious and hurt..
angel		Djaste el pueblo;
teresa		Si deje el pinche pueblo. Y ahora vivo con el generalisimo; She jerks away from Angel and starts toward the other table.
pike		Take it easy! He places a hand on Angel's shoulder.
dutch		 Que pasa::
pike		His sweetheart --
angel		 "She was my woman and she left the village.,
mapache		Qua basura es este? Mapache again. kicks Angel..
zamorra		Why did he try to kill His Excellency...?
pike		He didn't, he was. after the girl... Mapache is having difficulty understanding. He looks at Z'amorra with a puzzled expression.
zamorra		La.muchacha,..
dutch		Era su novia; The Mexicans immediately respond to Dutch's explanation. Both Z.amorra and Mapache smile.
pike		He went a little crazy when he saw her with you. Mapache laughs. His ego is pleased with the idea that.he had taken someone's woman. He turns and explains grandly in Spanish to the rest of. the cantina.
mohr		 Are you men in Agua Verde for business?
mohr		You must have been associated with the American Army, is that riot so? Tector and Lyle snicker slightly at the remark. Mapache and Zamorra turn, listening carefully to the conversation. The cantina is silent.
dutch		-No -- were not associated with anyone...
mohr		I see,..1 was curious because of.the equipment which you are carrying.  That pistol is restricted for use'by army personnel. It can't be purchased or even owned... legally.
mohr		You're surprised at my interest?  Weapons are a specialty of mine. Mohr bows his head slightly and clicks his heels barely audib3y,
mohr		I am Commander Frederick Mohr-of the Imperial German. Army. For the last six- months I have been in Mexico helping fight against the revolutionaries. 212. ANGEL ON THE FLOOR IS CONSCIOUS, but uimoving., listening to what is being said. Several of Mapache's men stand around him.
mohr		Unfortunately your government has chosen to aid the rabble in their so-called struggle for liberty...
pike		I. never heard of any American troops fighting down here...
mohr		They are aiding in diplomatic channels... It would be very useful to us if we knew of Americans who did not share their government's naive sentiments.
pike		We have vez"y'few sentiments in common with our government.
mapache		Qua diga?
mohr		 Generalisimo, I think we should ask these gentlemen to have a drink with us. And Pike, understanding. that much Spanish, smiles as we.
pike		Of all those garrison rail spurs that ofie is the easiest to hit -- But I've got to figure where we can get out with. the wagon.
dftch		 Why do you want us to hit a train that's so close to the border ...The General could take an army up there and get it.
mohr		President Huerta is anxious to better relations with the U.S. -- not destroy them. -
pike		Arms shipments are generally. kept secret ...how did you find out about this one?
ernst		Mapache has a superb intelligence force..  Organized under the supervision of my superior officer.
zamorra		 If you are not able to do the work we will find someone else,
pike		'  I -- we can do 'it , , ,
zamorra		Our accountant will arrange everything.
sohr		 Soon you will be the best armed general in Mexico. Mapache raises his glass In a toast,
mapache		A la conquistat.,. Pike nudges Lyle who raises his glass; the other men follow suit. Mohr smiles and elegantly raises a drink.
ernst		Prosit:a I 217 PIKE AND DUTCH.DRINK, put down their glasses.
pike		With your permission ...I need a bath.
lyle		Well,. .I don't need no bath...Tector and me need'some of them senoritas.  How 'bout that boy, can you fix us up?
zamorra		Porque no? Zamorra yells to JUAN. JOSE, an aide, standing nearby.
zamorra		Oye!...Traeles unas viejas! Andale!
dutch		I'm sure. 219 DUTCH FOLLOWS PIKE TO ANGEL where they lift him off the floor.
pike		We better get him cleaned up...
pike		Por favor, General -- but I need him.
mapache		I"give you someone much better.
mapa che		Take him. It is not important to me -- take him!' Then he.looks away as:
tector		Hey! ...Here come our sweeties!
lyle		 And then some! He turns" and beckons to Pike and Dutch who, with Sykes, are carrying Angel out of the saloon, but they ignore him.
harrigan		And you want to gamble everything this one shipment will be attacked?!
thornton		If they're in Agua Verde that's what - --they'll go for.
harrigan		If?! Why not Juarez?
thornton		Because we would have heard::.  If they are in Agua Verde they will have seen Mapache.
thornton		A killer for Huerta who calls himself a.general.-- with enough guns he can become a power in northern Mexico - my guess is Pike will try and get them f or  him.
harrigan		The train will be guarded by regular troops!!
thornton		Not regulars --.green recruits and not. worth a damn! I'll need twenty trained men -- not recruits or this gutter trash you.'ve given me.
harrigan		You'll get the job done with what you have -- that'p our bargain. (then looking at the
dutch		I don't see how you stand it
pike		Some day I'm going to build me one of these and live in it.  I don't know why I  didn' t just let him kill you.
dutch		Very 'noble .
sykes		Listen, bog, you ride the trail with us your village don't count -- if it does- -you jest don't go along.
angel		Then I don't go along!
dutch		One load of guns isn't going to stop him from raiding villages.. You ought to be thinking about all that money you'll have.
dutch		A small bag.
pike		Move them a thousand miles away and buy them a ranch --. two -- three, ranches.
dutch		One -- a very Small ranch.
angel		They'll never leave...You see, it's their land -- and no one will, ever drive them away.
sykes		 But when all is said and done -- I!11 drink to -- gold.
dutch		Salud'.
lyle		The dons of Spain built-this some three hundred years ago -- He belches, then looks about in awe at the huge casks.
tector		Itm all for them dons'. 229 TECTOR SUDDENLY SWINGS A MATTOX ON TO a six foot cask which rests on top of two others of equal height, it bounces out of his hand. He draws his gun and fires as does Lyle. Liquid gushes down. 229A LYLE STEPS UNDER IT, lifts his face, drinks, then drags: his lady beside him.
lyle		(as the torrent pours over them removing his
angel		Would you give someone a gun to kill your mother, or your father, or your brother? 231, DUTCH LOOKS AT PIKE. Pike thinks it over. Both have. another pull on the bottle.
pike		Son -- twenty thousand cuts a lot of. family ties.
angel		No -- you gringos are no different. I have seen how Lyle takes care of his brother. He takes the bottle, drinks, then throws it on the rocks.
sykes		Let him find out.' Mr. Bishop --  You know as well as I there ain't no way of collecting from Mapache 'cept off a lot of dead bodies -- mostly ours, the way he thinks. Pike considers this -- looks at the old man, finally nods .
angel		I would take guns ...if Mapache found out, you would say I stole them,
dutch		How many cases of rifles did Zamorra say were in that shipment?
pike		Twenty.
dutch		Give him one.
dutch		__-He'll have to show up with us. when we deliver..,.
angel		I' will:..
tector		 They just got engaged. 234 FOR A MOMENT THE GROUP:is frozen,-looking at the.bride to be, her bridesmaid and:the best man. and groom,.. then all stand., together and bow.
pike		Pleasure-, Ma' ain.
angel		Tanto gusto, senorita.
dutch		Mucho gusto, senorita..
sykes		. Son of a bitch.
change		 2/27/68  00  234 CONTINUED Tector and Lyle and their girls look at him as both Pike and Dutch nearly fall off the bench, laughing too hard to drink their health as we:  DISSOLVE TO:  EXT. BROKEN DESERT AREA  - DAY
dutch		You never told me how you got all tore up like that... 236 PIKE REFLECTS FOR A MOMENT. His face is almost white.; Then he reaches in his saddle bag and pulls out a bottle. He drinks, passes the bottle to Dutch..
pike		I met a woman I wanted to marry... Pike 'grins a little at what now seems an absurd thought.
pike		Buenas no the s mi amor. Aurora swings and catches him full handed across the face9 the groceries scatter on the floor -- Pike bounces off the wall,. looks at her, tries to grin.
pike		Your husband due back?
aurora		No, never you are late -- two days late. Pike is startled by this, starts to protest, realizes it is true, tries to make apologies. Aurora turns and stalks off.
pike		No! He picks up a pan with a hot handle, drops it, spilling hot stew or soup on his foot, hops around cursing looking at the shambles on the stove and on the floor.' 236DD AURORA STANDS LOOKING AT HIM WITH LOVE, then smiling softly crosses to the side-board and pours him a drink. He takes it, suddenly both are laughing.
pike		She had a husband and I should have had enough sense to kill him. He wasn't around and I got careless. One night he.walked in on us - - got her with the first shot. He caught me here with the second then the damndd coward turned and ran.
dutch		You didn't catch up with him?
pike		Not yet but there-hasn't been.a day or an hour that I haven't thought about getting him - - he didn't want that woman he just. wanted to kill somebody - - well, he killed her - - not me and I'll see him dead for it.
pike		This is the last go round - - this time we do it right.
chance		 2/27/68  71B.  EXT. DESERT - DAY   237 A TRAIN CHUGS ACROSS THE FLAT STRETCH of desert. The small steam. locomotive pushes a flatbed and pulls a succession of three cars. Another flat, a passenger and a cattle. The train moves toward the only object in sight:  238 A RICKETY TRACKSIDE WATER TOWER AND MAINTENANCE SHOP  239 IN FRONT OF THE ENGINE TWO ARMY ORDINANCE GUARDS RIDE ON THE-FLAT car, wearily checking the track for obstructions. ON THE SECOND,FLAT CAR TWO MORE ARMED GUARDS sit on crates of weapons and..arnmunition, gazing at the passing scenery.  INT. PASSENGER CAR - DAY
dutch		They're coming; 269 GORCH ON FRONT OF THE. LOCOMOTIVE WHIRLS AROUND and looks back for an instant as Dutch yells. The two guards jump for their weapons. Lyle turns back,'watches them, then kills both as they pick up their rifles.
angel		 Yo V07; Pike hesitates, then turns back to the throttle. 27.6 DUTCH DUCKS AS SHOTS FROM THE GUARD splinter wood nearh=s face.. He is barely able to hang on. and. is slipping down closer to' the rails.
pike		Get the guns off and get on, out of here; He turns and scrambles down inside the cab. Outside the men quickly finish loading and the wagon pulls up alongside the cab.
dutch		We're ready!
pike		Not yet - I want to return e. favor.. He.yanks the throttle into reverse and jumps off the locomotive onto the wagon.
soldier		Sergeant; They're coming back...
mc hale		(realizing what is
mc hale		Get out ; ...The engine's coming ! And It is at about forty miles an hour. The Sergeant turns and runs.
pike		Get on those rear. wheels'. The Gorch brothers scramble down into knee-deep water and begin to push.
mc hale		Halt... '. Halt dammit; That is-Mexico -- and . we can't go there -- not yet.
change		 2/27/68  81.  EXT. BOUNTY HUNTERS' CAMP 
coffer		SomeMex kid's probably ridin' him home right now,
jess		I don't see how I could'a lost both my boots; .They always was hard as hell to gat on but that little ole river just sucked 'em right off;
ross		They was waiting for us.
coffer		Dollars to doughnuts that same kid that's ridin' T.C.'-s horse is wearing your-boots right now,
jess		You see Thornton;.,. I never did see him come up',
coffer		If you'reasking me, I think we ought'a go after them bandits and make that swim. worth something.
ross		 I'd like to take some good pelts back.. or at least maybe steal something down here.
thornton		Steal as some grub -- I got the horses.
ross		.We thought the dynamite must've got you or them . soldiers.
jess		Or that damned river.
thornton		"Them soldiers" are going to get us all if they ever get the chance...Who started firing at them? The men look at one another momentarily.
ross		Them soldiers started shooting first: Thornton, without answering, steps to the fire,
thornton		How many rifles? And how much ammunition?
ad lib		 Got mine...damn little...twelve rounds.Itm clean,..44ts but no 301 30 t s, . - . I}O round - lost mine.
thornton		We'll use what we got.
coffer		Are we going after-them?
thornton		We are; -- unless youtd like to go back. and face a firing squad.
thornton		Your problem.
jess		Now...?
change		 2/27/68  84,  EXT. ROUGH COUNTRY NEAR 
pike		Lyle; .Put your horse in the traces! 336 LYLE HANDS A BOTTLE OF WHISKEY TO TECTOR and nudges his horse forward.-As he swings off, it is obviaeas that he is a little drunk,
tector		Well, we got all them guns,. Pike.
pike		And we got a hell of a long way to go 'with a considerable number of people just waiting to take 'em away.
sykes		Where's the General supposed to meet us? -
pike		Agua Verde -- or before -- and when he does, don't look for no open arms.
dutch		What about Thornton and them others?
pike		Last I saw he was ridin' four sticks of dynamite into the river.
sykes		Don't count on him stayin' t.ere. -  You know him --.I know him he'll be along.
pike		 Yeah he'll be along.
lyle		 It'll be a cold day in hell 'fore -I do that again. - And suddenly they are all laughing.
pike		Let's move.- And they do, still chuckling-as we.;
operator		Porel generalisimo: Andale! The boy runs out of the building and into the street.
perez		Mi general -- tenemos que irnos.'
zamorra		Par favor. Mapache ignores them. Juan,rushing'toward Mapache, almost falls as Herrera jerks him to a halt..
herrera		(reaching for the
juan		Mi General... telegrama de San Antonio. The general returns the salute solemnly and opens the paper, reads it.
ernst		(to his companion,
map ache		The gringos take the guns...
mohr		Sie haben die Geware gestclen!
ernst		Ach so;...Gut -  Sehr gut.mein General!
mohr		 It is important this news be kept from Villa until the guns are in our hands.
zamorra		(beginning to panic as the firing grows
mapache		(shouting towards the mountain in
herrera		And if the gringos object --?
mohr		 My General -- if they are success ful in this venture possibly they can be useful in others, Mapache thinks this over, turns to Herrera. Nearby another man is hit and falls.
mapache		 Kill them; 3?+8 HERRERA SALUTES AND LEAVES. Mapache gestures:and the others. quickly jump aboard the train. Mapache is the last, looking, back at the hills with hatred as the Villistas charge and we:.
dutch		Still heading east.
pike		Are they bluffing. or did they really miss it?
dutch		I'd say they missed it..
dutch		Only five left -- didn't figure them to come down after us. How much can we be worth?
pike		A lot depends on how hungry they are...
pike		1. need some-help. 353 ANGEL QUICKLY GETS TO HIS FEET and follows Pike. to the wagon. Pike reaches into a box near the seat and removes a piece of fuse.
pike		Get that case of explosives near the back. Angel climbs on the wagon. Lyle, hearing him,.crawls out from underneath. His brother also awakens and starts moving around. Sykes, hat. over his eyes, looks up but doesn't move..
lyle		Whatta you want with the dynamite?
pike		Protection. (as they look at
pike		Now I'm goin' to make it real easy for something to happen. 35L PIKE SETS THE BOX ON THE GROUND and pries open the lid. He begins setting the sticks on the ground next to the box. Angel gets down and Pike hands.him a coil. of baling wire.
pike		Wrap these in pairs and put a fuse cap between them. Angel takes the first two and starts to work on them. 355 LYLE WATCHES FOR A MOMENT THEN NUDGES HIS BROTHER and climbs on the wagon and begins looking over the.boxes... One is much bigger than the others and of a different shape. 356 ANGEL AND PIKE ARM THE DYNAMITE STICKS in the shade of the wagon..
angel		Men from my village will meet us tomorrow. Pike looks up, angered.
pike		You told them about our trail?
angel		I. don't need to tell them...They know where we are.
angel		This country has many people, but they have learned to live without being seen.  Anyplace where a farmer has a field ...or a man has sheep in the moun-- .tains..or a boy watches a herd of goats.
tector		Pike -- take--a look --
lyle		-You know how to work one of these things? Pike stands,,then grins a little-and crosses to the wagon.
pike		.Whatever I don't know, I'm going to learn.
jess		I don't know how we lost 'em except maybe in that big valley where the ground was. so hard.
coffer		There wasn't but one way they could have taken a wagon out of there, this here is it.
thornton		They didn.'t take it out...
thornton		They know what this is all about -- and. what. do I have -- nothin' but you damned egg sucking chicken stealing gutter rats -- with less than 60 rounds of ammunition be- tween you,
jess		I don't neither;
thornton		You'll take it! You don't even have enough sense to keep your damned boots on.  You make any more mistakes and I'm going to ride off and let you die. They are silent looking at the ground -- after a moment, Thornton turns his horse and rides off slowly. They follow.
dutch		Mapache' s?
pike		Just hope. they don't belong to Villa.
pike		Tell that one in front to come. over here ...Alone!
dutch		Oyel Jefe, ven to solitol
herrera		I.coming,..We are friends... all of us...I bring love and affection from el general -- We are comrades -- you and he -- all of us. 365 PIKE, DUTCH AND THE OTHERS watch silently as he rides up to the wagon. 366 HERRERA STOPS AND REMOVES HIS HAT', smiles, looks at. the heavily loaded wagon.
herrera		Que bueno -- What bravery you. have.to have done this magnifi cent act for the liberty of Mexico. Angel laughs, spits, Herrera.looks at him for a moment, smiles, shrugs, turns to Pike.
herrera		I am to escort you to the general. 367 NOBODY ANSWERS AND NONE OF THE GUNS pointed at him are lowered, he seems undisturbed.
herrera		Tell me what is you wish?
pike		 Tell him to-come closer!
herrera		I hear -- I am coming,- my friend.
pike		You see this? He tickles. the end of the fuse-with the dead ash on his cigar.
herrera		, Q uidado.1
pike		Itts-a: very fast fus.e..,any trouble and no guns for the general. Herrera is solemn as he ponders for a moment, then begins to 'smile.
herrera		Heyl...very smarts:: That's very smart for you-damn gringos... So nobody can rob the guns!
pike		Nobody:..nunca nadiel
dutch		 Don't you think you should tell your soldiers? The Mexican makes a face as if he doesn't understand.
herrera		Why? I am not afraid,,,they are not afraid -- you blow up the wagon you die -- or we kill you pretty soon -- but we are amigos __
dutch		Show.him& 373 TECTOR AND LYLE JERK THE TARP OFF. TI MACHINE GUN. Lyle arms it. 371k. HERRERA. LOOKS AT THE GUN and his eyes widen. He. turns,
herrera		Oyen muchachos3,.,Tienen la .caretta como bomba.con unfisible; ,,.y machina38 Still smiling he turns back to Pike and Dutch.
herrera		El general. waits an Agua-Verde.., to meet with you,
pike		Go on back-and tell the General that one of us will. be there tomorrow for-the trade..1,any trouble -- no gunsb Herrera takes one last look at the guns. then he wheels his horse and. rides off.
pike		This isnt over yeti 376 HERRERA RIDES HIS HORSE TO THE BEND IN. THE RIVER then, reaching his men,reins his horse up and-turns him around. He whistles loudly and calls out :
herrera		Muchachos... 377 FIFTY SOLDIERS FROM HIDDEN POSITIONS ON TOP OF BOTH sides of the arroyo ride out and look down.
yamosi		All the soldiers whirl and ride away.: 379 PIKE AND THE MEN breathe a sigh'of relief as. the Mexicans. ride off . ,
pike		 Keep on the gun -- watch the rim.
sykes		(as Pike steps off the
lyle		 Listen, old man
pike		 I'll tell you when --
thornton		Movin' fast -- looks like they bluffed off about 50 federal es --  Well, let's go find out.
thornton		 I don't give a damn about you -- but I.. do about the stock. He turns and slides down. the bluff. Coffer and T.C. look at each. other, then follow.
angel		My people are here for the guns. Pike looks at him then looks around the camp.
pike		Where? Angel smiles, then turns and calls softly.
angel		Ignacio?...Quien hablas por mi pueblo? Distinctly Indian voices answer from the surrounding tangled undergrowth.
voices		Si Angeleit o ...Soy Ignacio -- Ya estamos 1
angel		 They have come for the guns.
dutch		We haven't heard from Tectnr..
pike		 Call-'em in.
angel		Vengan, Muchachos
pike		 Cut him loose 388 ANGEL SPEAKS, LED BY IGNACIO, THEY QUICKLY FREE TECTOR and hand him his weapons with murmured apologies. Tector looks at them, whistles, softly.
angel		 They apologize and ask you to forgive them for their lack of trust but only by caution do they remain alive --
tector		Hell, I forgive them! I just want to join 'em! 389 PIKE JOINS DUTCH AND THEY WATCH quietly.. They have mis- trusted people for so long themselve,g they can understand mistrust in others. Freddy Sykes laughs s.oi'tly. 390 ANGEL AND THE INDIANS cross to the wagonE:
pike		 Don't break that fuse... Angel lifts a crate.
angel		I won't. Pike looks at Ignacio waiting to take the crate, the man's machete glints in the moonlight.
pike		They part of your village?
pike		How long have they been around?
angel		What ?
pike		How long have they been following us... close? 391 ANGEL EASES THE RIFLE CRATE DOWN, TWO PEONS TAKE IT. He turns to Ignacio.
angel		Cuanto tiempo nos sigas?
ignacio		Desde ante ayer, cuando salli-eron de la llanura grande. Hey otros.grupo de gringos... ellos se fueron a uno Ranchito. Pike looks at Angel.
angel		They've been. with us since we left the big plain...He says those others went to a little. Ranch.
sykes		They fought-'paches for a thousand years -- that's a sure way to .learn..
pike		If they ever get armed and led, this whole country'll go up in smoke.
mapache		Matalo l Pues l.. . -
mapache		Gringo 1. You bring the- guns l . Donde estan las arthas? Zamorra looks up at Pike.
zamo rra		The guns?
pike		Don't worry we got ' em...hidden. As soon as I. get 'my share of the gold I'll tell you where four cases are... $2500 worth..
zamorra		Our accountant will pay you immediately. Zamorra turns and yells to Herrera.
zamorra		Trae la caja! 
mapa che		When you come with all my guns?
pike		Quicker I get back, the quicker the next load'll get here. 399 HERRERA BRINGS A SMALL WOODEN STRONG BOX. Kneeling on the ground he opens it and counts out two small bags of gold, and hands them to Zamorra. Zamorra hands them to Pike.
pike		About two.. miles up the arroyo ... three cases of rifles, one of ammunition, are in the brush behind it.
zamorra		 Trae las armas Herrera runs for his horse.
mohr		I understand you have a machinegun
pike		Our contract was 16 cases of rifles and 8 of ammunition -- for $10,000 -- not a machine gun.  It is our gift to the General.
mapache		 You fight con Mapache,h, g macho _dinero -- muchachas bonitas -- la vida dulcet
pike		 I'll think it over.
zamorra		Esperate.
mapache		(to Pike in
go		 I trust him. Zamorra shrugs, Pike grins then turns and rides out..
sykes		 Pike must have found you. under a rock somewheres.
sykes		Nope - But you better hope I don't get riled enough to start . ggin' you when this is over.
tector		You'll never get a chance to dry gulch me, old man.
sykes		 We'll see.
lyle		 Take the watch. -- 403 DUTCH, CAREFULLY EXAMINING TWO GRENADES, looks up as Te c for Gorch. moves up the bank of the wash.
lyle		 What's t ha t? .
dutch		Grenade - you pull this pin then throw it and find a hole- From what. I hear it gets the job done.
lyle		We could have used a fear of them in San Rafael..
tector		. Pike's co min 1
dutch		{.calling) Any trouble?
pike		Just carryin' all this weight. He hold's up two bags of gold.
pike		 You and your brother take in the next' load, and the machine gun - 'then Dutch and Angel. Sykes,. you follow them and pick up the pack horses...leave the wagon.
dutch		How's the, generalis imo?
mohr		It must be mounted on the tripod... Mapache ignores them,.' grabbing the butt of the gun.
mohr		Er ist dock verrukt
dutch		We brought the last of it. Mapache gestures. Zamorra hands two bags of coin to Dutch who opens theca -- locks - it's gold.
dutch		At the head of the.arroyo -- in the wagon. Zamorra speaks to Herrera, who rides off with ten or twelve soldiers.
mapache		Como no...?
zamorra		How many cases did you take 'from the train?
dutch		Fourteen. We lost two on the trail.
mapache		 He stole them. ..He stole them for his people. The mother of his girl told us. I lost the girl, so now she gives me an Angel.
mapache		No lo matez b...Lo quiero vivo
mapache		Supieron ellos?
angel		No S...Yo los robe mientras dormian.
zamo rra		 Ee took two cases when you were asleep... 418 MAPACHE LAUGHS, highly pleased at the idea of a Mexican robbing the Americans.
mapache		 Next time be more careful who you shoot -- the mother of your sweetheart became angry when you killed her daughter. -- so she betrayed you -- que fam-ilia, eh? CONTINUED
dutch		 I'm wasting time here.
mapache		. Y Angel?
dutch		He's a thief,-- you take care of him.
mapache		 Dame lo.
zamorra		Two cases short -- one bag, por favor.
mapache		Un vieje Bien..
dutch		Yeah. He turns and rides off, Angel watching him.
change		 2/12/68  110.  EXT. BADLANDS - DAY
coffer		$1000 dead or alive.
thorn ton		,,-Coming out one at a time. i  We'll get down at the bottom of the wash and see if we can thin the odds a little. He mounts and they ride off.
lyle		Well, he had guts --
dutch		Yeah - he played his string out right to the end.
lyle		Her own Mama turning him in -- just like Judas -- 423 PIKE LOOKS AT HIM A LONG MOMENT, then turns away.
dutch		Sykes says we got to go after him.
coffer		. I got him -- I got him.' Thornton is silent, his face bitter. 436 PIKE GRABS THE GLASSES,. WATCHES THE BOUNTY HUNTERS ride after Sykes.
lyre		,Maps the ?
dutch		Thornton - they got Sykes. He's hit bad.  Daum Deka Thornton to hell..
dutch		 Gave his word to a railroad.
pike		It'-9 his word2
dutch		That ain.'t what counts -- it's who you give it t o l l
lyle		 We kin stay right up here and kick hell out of 'em. Pike turns and. looks over the camp.
pike		No water.
pike		They'd be after us every step of the way -- I know Thornton. No, I'm tired of being hunted -- we go back to Agua Verde and let the General take,.. care of those boys.
lyle		You're'cra-zy:...He'd just as soon kill us as break wind..
pike		He's so tickled with the guns he'll be celebrating for a week and happy to do us a favor. Thornton ain't going after us in there. While they're busy pick- ing over Freddy) we'll.' take the back trail off this mountain and head for town. The others look at him silently. Finally:
dutch		We take our gold?
pike		We take one sack to pay our way. Bury the rest -- together. They think this over, then nod.
coffer		Lots of blood over here -- then it stops and no tracks.
thornton		.It'll take us a day to find him if he is -- if he isn't, he's holding a gun on us right now. 438 THE IAN TENSE,-THEIR WEAPONS coming up.
thornton		We'll go after the others.
jess		Just leaving him here? He's worth money.
thornton		 Jess, you come back tomorrow and watch the buzzards. They'll show you where he is -- you might even get a pair of. boots. Jess thinks this over and grins, then the smile fades.
jess		But what if he ain't dead?
thornton		Your problem.. He turns his horse and rides away,. the others following, 439 SYKES, HIDDEN IN THE ROCKS and brush above them,slowly lowers his rifle and sags back. His leg is dark with dried blood and he's weak. Around the wound is a crude bandage made from his shirt -- with a tourniquet twisted tightly above it. After a moment, there is a noise and he looks away at:
tector		If I. didn't bury it, I wouldn't know where to look.
continued		corner of the yard and the soldiers return to their party atmosphere. Angel lies unmoving.
pike		I hate to see an animal treated like that.
pike		Maybe we- could buy him. They are silent for a long moment. Finally:
lyle		Just thinking about him is asking .for trouble.
pike		We,could use another gun. 450 MAPACHE, ZAMORRA AND THE GERMAN ADVISORS NOW GROUPED around the fire see the men.
mapache		Los Bandi'dos Gringos...Come here,
pike		I want to buy him back... Dutch and the others look at him surprised,
zamorra		We kept his share of the gold.
mapache		Oyen muchachos...'.Quiere comprar el traidor este ; -  The soldiers respond with laughter.
mapache		How much?...He don't look. wotth too much...Levantasel Two men jerk Angel to his feet. He is groggy and unre= sponsive.
mapache		Maybe he won't live too long'.
pike		I'll give half my share to get him back.
pike		You've had your fun with him...
zamorra		 El g3neralisimo is happy with victory!... Zamorra grabs a bottle of tequilla ofd' the table and tosses it to Pike.
zamorra		Go and drink... .there are women in. the village...But don't be foolish. and change his mood. 454 PIKE HOLDS THE BOTTLE and looks at the table, seething with anger. Then,. suddenly he calms.
pike		Want to go hunting, General? Mapache looks at him confused.
piie		- Five government men out there - Policio - they want the guns back. Mapache turns to Zamorra who translates..
mapache		 Five gringos want to take our guns Maten los..
herrera		S , mi. General. f. He turns,'barks orders to his men, then mounts and rides out, followed by twenty soldiers.
dutch		Goodbye,. Thornton. 455 ZAMORRA GESTURES AND JUAN JOSE crosses. to them...
pike		Why not?. The group moves through the celebration out the main gate and into the village beyond.
coffer		Don't look like nobody was ever. here,
thornton		Army patrol -- coming this way. Instantly the men mount and ride out.
lyle		Why not? Pike turns and moves through. his room. Tector and Lyle follow. Behind them the.woaian begins her complaints again.
pike		Yeah. 464 THEY CROSS TO THEIR HORSES, THEIR DRUNKENNESS LESSENING with every step. Pike and Dutch pull rifles. or shotguns from their saddle scab- bards as do . Lyle.and-Tector,. then they move up the village street..
mapache		 Hey, bandidos? What you want?.
pike		We want Angel; Mapache stares at them without answering.
mapache		You want him..,? He takes a knife and cuts the rope binding. Angel's hands. 471. ANGEL-BARELY ABLE TO STAND, REACTS with disbelief.. 472 PIKE AND DJTCH WATCH without a movement, without a sound.
change		 2/12/68  123. 485 DUTCH EMPTYING his .44, throwing another grenade, is hit, draws his .45, continues firing, moving with Pike, covering his back. 486 THE SOLDIES HUNT COVER and die -- more pour in from the courtyard and die caught in the cross fire. 487 TECTOR AND LYLE YELLING with the lust of battle charge toward the table, emptying their guns. 488 MOHR.REACHES THE MACHINE GUN, begins firing. Kills a number of soldiers as it gets away from him. 489 PIKE KILLS HIM with his last two rifle shots and the German dies with his finger locked. on the trigger. 490 THE GUN SWINGS, cutting a swath of death across the room, killing s.ix soldiers,wzunding Dutch. 491 PIKE: THROWS THE RIFLE. as he slips a. now clip in the .45, whirls as: .492 ZAMORRA PUTS three rounds into Dutch. 493 PIKE KILLS ZAMORRA AND HERRERA, then a soldier has driven a bayonet through his gut and into the wall.  494 DUTCH, ON THE FLOOR, KILLS THE SOLDIER 495' MEXICANS CONTINUE FIRING AT THE AMERICANS from all sides and the Gorch brothers, badly wounded,. but still on their feet still are blasting away at them from the middle of the room, then Tector, laughing, picks up. the screaming, terrified Chita and, rushes the crowd, using the woman for a shield. She tosses her head and dies as bullets slam into her soft body, then he is.hit again and goes down on one knee. 496 A SOLDIER, UNSEEN BY.TECTOR', steps into a doorway. He aims at Tecto'r with a revolver and fires Into him from several feet away. The bullets tear into Tector and he drops the woman and dances out into the room. As he is hit. from all sides, he whirls around, seeing:
coffer		It's them.
thornton		You'd have.one hell of a time proving that.a week from now, in Texas.
coffer		 em. _Hey, Thornton, should we load up?
thornton		 Suit yourself,
ross		 If Jess is counting on buzzards to. lead him to. old Sykes, he's got a long wait -- we got 'em all.. They laugh and go to work.
coffer		You ain't comin'?
coffer		----.No we 9.11 pick him up on the way -- I -want to-get out. of this goddamned place -- anyways these boys will start going ripe on us by tomorrow --. we got to' move --  You sure you ain't coming? Coffer shrugs and drinking out ofa half-full tequi.lla bottle, rides off, followed by the others who ignore Thornton as completely as he does them,
sykes		Didn't expect to find you here, Deke.
thornton		Why. not -- I sent 9 em.back -- that's all I said I'd do.
sykes		They didn't et far --
thornton		Don't know -- does.it make any difference?
sykes		 I reckon not.
thornton		Drift around down here -- try and. stay out of jail --
sykes		Well,, come along -- we got some work to do --  It ain't like it used to be,. but it's better than nothing. 513. THORNTON TAKES A DEEP BREATH, THEN HALF GRINS, unties his horse, then mounts and follows.
****Dialogues from script :Wild_Hogs.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Wild_Things.txt****

nicole		When we graduate the only thing I'm going to miss is...  Know what I mean?
kelly		 Oh yeah.
sam		We've come to the halfway point in my senior seminars...
sam		Thank you, Jimmy.
jimmy		Hey, man, at least in study hail I could meditate.
sam		Something Kirk with which I'm sure you have hands-on experience.
ray		Thank you for having us.  We'll each talk for ten or fifteen minutes, then open it up to your questions...
suzie		I'm not going to listen to this jack-off.
ray		Let's begin with a question.  What is a sex crime?
jimmy		Not getting any.
carole		Have a nice weekend, Mr. Lombardo.
carole		 I hate to be good.
sam		This is one of the original buildings. We have the offices here now.
gloria		Anybody in particular?
sam		Sam Lombardo.  The first.  Class of 'Forty-Two  My father.
sam		Art.  Say hello to Detectives Perez and Duquette.  Art Maddox. A fellow guidance counselor.
art		So, did you set 'em all straight on the ugly facts of life?
sam		I have the feeling, they got it down already.  They're a step ahead of us, Artie.
ray		I've got that two o'clock in town.
gloria		 Back to the land of grownups.
sam		 If old pictures interest you, come back some time, there's quite a collection down in the pagoda.  I'll see you get a proper tour.
gloria		 I'd like that.
sam		 Okay, you guys.  Good work.  Now coil those dock lines and I'll see you all on Monday.
jimmy		All right.  I could party on that.
sam		That's about all it's good for.  That's the one to have.
sam		The Windward Passage.  I crewed on that one summer.  Long time ago.
jimmy		You know, I want to thank you for getting me into this class...  No way was my old man going to spring for the fees...
sam		Hey, you're working for it.  Least you're supposed to be.
kelly		So who's washing your car this weekend, Mr. Lombardo?  Tamara's making a schedule.  She said you bought a coupon but you're not on anybody's list.
sam		Well, you know.  Figured I'd buy a Washing ticket, support the effort. That old Jeep of mine's kind of a waste of time, don't you think?
kelly		Not at all.  How about if Nicole and I do it?  We're working as a team.
sam		Okay, try me on Sunday.  I'm going out to the Everglades on Saturday.  You guys can wash the mud off.
kelly		Deal.  You know, I just looked out front.  My ride wasn't there.  You suppose you could give me one?
sam		What about you, Jimbo, you need a ride?
jimmy		 What?
sam		A ride.  You want one?
jimmy		Yeah.  But I got my bike.
sam		We got room for one more, Suzie.  You need a ride?
kelly		Jesus.  Where'd she get those shoes? Whores-4-Less?
kelly		Don't forget the car wash.
sam		I won't.
sandra		Is that Sam Lombardo?
kelly		 Hi, Mon.
sandra		Sam!  Hi!
sam		Hi, Sandy.
sandra		Why don't you come in, have a drink?
sam		Can't.  Got a passenger.
sandra		He can wait.
sam		I can't, Sandy.  I've got to run.
sandra		I'll bet.  Look, Sam.  Why don't you come by this weekend.  We'll take the boat out...
sam		 Sorry, Sandy.  I've got plans.
sandra		What?  Running over alligators with that silly swamp jalopy when you could be sailing a real boat...
sam		Swamp's where it's at, Sandy.  Gives you a look into the muck we all crawled out of.  You ought to try it some time.
nicole		This is it?
kelly		Four-thirty-seven.
nicole		Nice.
kelly		What do you want, he's a teacher for Christ's sake.  It's here.  Pull over.
barbara		 Sam, come on... I'm gonna be late for my game...
sam		Eat a power bar.
girls		Hi, Mr. Lombardo.
kelly		Look, he forgot.  I knew it.
sam		No I didn't.  Check out the Jeep.  It's nice and dirty for you.  But you might want to wait a minute. The Mercedes is leaving.
nicole		You mean that isn't yours too?
kelly		Where's the hose?  We can set up.
sam		In back of the garage.
barbara		Is that Sandra Van Ryan's kid?
sam		Kelly.
barbara		She's going to wash your Jeep?
sam		Senior class fund-raising gig.  I told 'em they could hose down the Jeep.  Hey, come on.  It's for a good cause.
barbara		Sam the philanthropist.  Tomorrow, right?
sam		So, where you off to now?
kelly		Aren't  you forgetting something?  Your coupon.  We gotta have it.
sam		Jeez, that thing... Can't you...
kelly		 Rules are rules, Mr. Lombardo.
sam		All right.  I'll have to look for it.
kelly		 We're running kind of late.  How about if Nicole goes on to the Mansons?  You could give me a ride when you find the ticket.
sam		Give me a minute.
nicole		 Are you sure?
sam		Sly old fucker.  How you got so big, wasn't it?
sam		Barbara?
barbara		It's hot in here, just the way you like it.
kelly		Bang...
sandra		Goddamnit!  Hello.
sandra		Jesus H. Christ!
frankie		What?
sam		Counseling.
sandra		Sam, Sandy Van Ryan.
sam		Sandy... What's up?
sandra		Listen, Kelly skipped school.  Have you talked to her?
sam		No.
sandra		Shit. Here we go again.
sam		Didn't you see her this morning?
sandra		To tell you the truth, I haven't seen her since Friday.
sam		So maybe I'm a one-woman man.
sandra		Right.  You really think you're gonna get one of these Blue Bay women to marry you?
sam		Goodbye, Sandra.
sandra		The nerve of some people.
sandra		You seem to find guns therapeutic. Maybe I oughta try it.
kelly		Which one of your "bodyguards" is that?
sandra		Whichever one I want.
sandra		Okay, what's the matter?
kelly		You notice my new jumper?
sandra		I would hardly say you look like trash.
kelly		No thanks to you.
sandra		Come off of it.  I'm trying to spare you that.
kelly		I miss Dad.
sandra		Jesus.  Well, I do too, sometimes...
kelly		No you don't.
sandra		He didn't have to kill himself, Kelly. He could have gone out and gotten a job. Christ, he could've found another rich woman... He never had a problem tucking my friends when we were married.
sandra		What, honey?  I can't hear you.
kelly		I said.  I was raped.
sandra		What?
kelly		I was raped.  By Sam Lombardo.
sandra		He... Sam Lombardo?
kelly		Yes.  God, Mom...
ray		 You're saying that Kelly was raped by Sam Lombardo.
sandra		That's right.
gloria		The guidance counselor at Blue Bay?
sandra		 The guidance counselor at Blue Bay.
gloria		We understand your feelings, Ms. Van Ryan.  But please, we'd like some time with Kelly.  We'd like to take her statement alone.
sandra		Are you okay for this?
gloria		How are you, Kelly? Would you like to take a break for a minute?
kelly		 I just want to get it over with.  My mom's making me do this. I just want to forget it.
gloria		I know you do.
kelly		He started rubbing my shoulders.  Said must be sore after washing cars.  I... let him  I mean he's a nice guy.  I don't know... It was so fast.  I closed my eyes.  I remember his hands moved to my breasts.  I mean just for a second it was nice... I forgot whore I was.  I mean he's so gorgeous...
kelly		The next thing... his hand was in my shorts... you know, from behind.  His fingers... his fingers...
kelly		They were in me.  Both places... you know.
kelly		He said something like, "Do you want it dirty7" or something.  I tried to turn away, but he pushed me to the floor.
kelly		Yes.  I said stop.  I screamed.  I mean that's how it sounded in my head.  He hurt me...
kelly		No.  I've done it a couple of times, I mean with guys I dated.  But this hurt... like, he was built... you know...
kelly		I... he had my wrists pinned behind me. I remember my hands were cold.'
kelly		He kept saying, "Let it happen, let it happen."  Then he just stopped.
kelly		Not at first.  He was still inside but he wasn't moving or anything...  He said we had this secret.  And that now he'd be able to help me... because we were close... Something like that.  I don't know.  It's hard to remember, exactly.
kelly		I know one thing he said.  It was when... when he took himself out and was standing up.  He said, "Don't worry, I didn't come." I can't forget that.  He said, "No little girl can ever make me come."
hunter		"No little girl can ever make me come." Jesus.  Too bad.  We might have some physical evidence.
gloria		I don't know.  It feels wrong.
hunter		Why?
gloria		I think she's acting.  I think she set it up to be alone with him because she wanted him to come on to her.  I think maybe she's upset that he didn't...
ray		Or maybe she thought that was what she wanted and she got a little more than she bargained for...
hunter		The line I get on this guy, is that he's done half the women in Blue Bay.
gloria		That doesn't make him a child rapist.  There's something else.  This girl's had some problems.  Wrecked a couple of her mom's cars.  Ran away...
hunter		Where's this coming from?
gloria		I worked Juvenile in Dade County for three years.  We had a missing persons on Kelly Van Ryan for two weeks... Maybe a year ago... The family kept it out of the papers.
ray		That would make it about the time of her old man's suicide.  You don't think that could explain some erratic behavior?
gloria		All I'm saying is, I think we should go slow here.
hunter		I want a full-scale investigation.
gloria		You know what that will mean for Lombardo.
hunter		I don't care.  You heard that girl's statement.  I think he's dirty.  Get me a case.
gloria		Well you were a big help.  You know what's going to happen if we go full-bore on this.
ray		It's our job, Gloria.
gloria		Hunter's making it our job because Sandra Van Ryan's got a bug up his ass. You know that as well as I do.  We're gonna trash this guy's life and I keep asking myself if it's really necessary.
sam		That's good, Jimbo.  I'll see you on Monday.
art		Kelly Van Ryan...
sam		... is accusing me of rape.  Jimmy told me.  Apparently I'm the last to know...
art		Sam... I...  Sandra Van Ryan's been on the horn with every member of the school board all day long.  She's pushing for suspension...
sam		This is insane.
art		All I can tell you Sam, is hang in there.  They clear you of this mess, you get reinstated, with back pay...
sam		That's great.  I'll just tell my creditors I'm not a rapist.  No problem... Shit.  I can't believe the board's going to act without even hearing my side of it.
art		The Van Ryan family created Blue Bay. They built the school... Sandra Van Ryan calls up the board and says kiss my ass, they say, left, right, or in the middle.  You're gonna need some help on this one, Sam.  You're gonna need a lawyer, and he'd better be a good one.
secretary		Mr. Bowden will see you now.
ken		Sam, hey, it's been a while.  Looked for you at the ten year reunion. You missed out.  Three days at the Disneyworld Hotel... Partied ourselves silly.
sam		 Ken.  I'm in some trouble.  I need an attorney and you're the only one I know. So I figured I'd start here.
ken		Well, I'm glad you did.  And I'm sorry.  Why don't you tell me about it.
sam		What did you do to your neck?
ken		Oh this... chiropractor did a number on me.
sam		Georgie, hey.  I'm meeting Barbara.  She here yet?
george		Mr. Lombardo.
baxter		This is not appropriate Lombardo.
sam		Barbara...
bazter		You're finished in Blue Bay, Lombardo. You've been scratching at the door long enough...  I ever see you around my daughter, you're going to be finished, period.
barmaid		Sam, honey... Haven't seen you in a while.  How's life treatin' you?  That bad, huh?  Well, you came to the right place.
man's voice		Are you all right?
sam		Yeah, I'm okay.
frankie		That's too bad.
ken		I figured, you know, it would be darker in here.
sam		Good thinking.
ken		You can tie whoever did it to Sandra Van Ryan...
sam		Forget it.
ken		Lady has some deep pockets.  That's all I'm saying.
sam		I know how deep her pockets are, Ken.  I thought I might be able to save my fucking house with an equity loan. Guess who's on the board of directors at the bank?
ken		Not in here.  Chiropractor comes in here for lunch sometimes.
sam		What's that supposed to mean?
ken		For you to be getting this kind of heat, for what they have on you... It doesn't add up.  Sandra Van Ryan's got 'em running scared.  And I'll tell you something else, you rush, you get careless.
sam		Nellie Gail Ranch...
ken		Sound nice?  It's a fucking drug rehab farm.  It's where Kelly Van Ryan went when her morn fished her out of the swamp.  Shit, they haven't even taken your statement yet.  Reason?  They're still shoveling dirt and my guess is, they're coming up empty.  Now tell me I'm right.
sam		There's nothing for them to get.
ken		Good.  So what we're going to do is march right to Hunter's doorstep.  We're going to insist they take a statement. We're going to tell them to charge your ass or get off your back.  They're walking a fine line here. Defamation of character, malicious prosecution...
sam		I just want my life back...
ken		Fair enough.  Let's go make a statement.
ray		Why don't you tell us one more time, how Kelly came to be with you, alone in your house.
sam		 Story's the same, Detective...
ray		The one you bought at school.
sam		 Anyway, I'm going through a drawer.  I hear a car.  I look out the window.  I see Nicole driving away.  I leave my room, and there's Kelly.
ray		In cutoffs, a wet T-shirt.
sam		Yes.
ray		And she wanted to talk.
sam		Yes.
ray		But you can't tell us what she wanted to talk about.
sam		I could, but it's confidential.  Look, the point is, we didn't talk.  I told her this was not an appropriate time or place.
ray		And she began to cry.  And you put an arm around her.
sam		Yes.  Mainly to turn her toward the door.  I told her we would talk on Monday, in the office.
gloria		And when you turned her toward the door, where did you expect her to go, without a car?
sam		Again.  I think we covered this.  I told her I was going to call a cab.
ray		But she ran away.
sam		That's right.
gloria		Did you call anyone?  Did you call her house to see if she got home?  Did you call the Masons?
sam		No.
gloria		Weren't you a little worried about her...?
sam		There's a strip mall not half a mile from my house.  There's phones there.  I cruised the place, but I didn't see her. I figured she was probably there but that she was angry and didn't want to be found.  I don't know... Maybe I should have called.  But it's not like Kelly can't take care of herself.  I figured we'd just take it up on Monday, in the office.
ray		But you do admit to touching her, to putting your arm around her.  Isn't that against the rules?
sam		It is and I don't.  Ordinarily...  But, I mean... there's this kid standing in front of you crying...
ray		With a thirty-five inch bustline in a wet T-shirt with no bra...
sam		Fuck you.  This is bullshit.  I'm outta here.
ray		Sit down, Lombardo.
ken		All right, all right... Enough.
ken		I didn't think so.  Let's go.
sam		I've spent the last ten years of my life working with kids.  I love what I do, and I think I'm good at it.  These kids trust me, and there is no way.  No way in hell I would ever betray that trust.
hunter		Nice speech.  Either of you buying?
ray		Not that stuff about her running away, him trying to find her.  That's bullshit.
hunter		What about witnesses?
ray		We've got three.  Guy mowing his yard, couple of kids playing hoops.
hunter		And what do they say?
gloria		Same as him.  They saw her come.  They saw her go.  They saw him follow.
ray		Still doesn't explain why he couldn't catch up with her.  I mean how long does it take to put on a shirt?
cop		Phone, Bryce.  It's Sandra Van Ryan.
hunter		Christ Almighty.  That woman's calling me six times a day.
gloria		We failed to mention the mower guy's a drunk, that he was after more beer and never really saw Kelly go into the house, so he can't say how long she was in there.  Same with the kids.  They saw her running down the street, but that's it.  With no physical evidence, what do we have?  Her word against his.
ray		You're telling me you believe the guy?
gloria		All I'm saying is, we let Sandra Van Ryan push us too hard, we're going to wind up looking stupid.
ray		I'd better return this.
ray		 Seen any good gator wrestling lately?
gloria		They say it was old man Van Ryan planted the melalucas to dry up the swamp.
ray		Yeah, well, Van Ryan got his.  I don't imagine he gives a shit now.
gloria		You're sure we're not lost?
ray		You remember that little girl walked out of our talk at Blue Bay?
gloria		The skinny brunette.
ray		This is where she lives.  She wants to talk.  Beats the shit out of me why she would call me at all.  I busted her once for possession.  she wound up doing about six months at Camp Nine.
gloria		You mean Camp Sixty-Nine.
ray		It's a shithole.  But she was dirty, what was I gonna do?
ray		Evening Ruby.  I see you still got Walter.  I was sort of hoping something had eaten him by now.
ruby		 Can I help you with something?
ray		Suzie called.  You know where we can find her?
ruby		You know the way.
suzie		Jesus.  It took you long enough.  What if somebody was trying to strangle me? Or fuck me in the ass, even?  I mean, you guys are Sex Crimes.
ray		Meet my partner, Gloria Perez.
suzie		I did.  At Blue Balls.
gloria		Seems to me you left early, before we could meet.  But hi, Suzie.
suzie		It's Celine.  He's okay.  He had a pretty good line on what cheap fucks people are.
ray		So Suzie, you called us, remember?
suzie		Did they arrest Mr. Lombardo?
ray		No.
suzie		Will they?
ray		It doesn't look like it.
suzie		Then he'll be back at Blue Balls?
gloria		That bothers you?
suzie		 Yeah, maybe, a little.
gloria		Why is that?
gloria		Okay, Suzie.  We want you to tell us about the day Mr. Lombardo gave you and Jimmy a ride.
suzie		You didn't tell me you were gonna put me on the fucking news.
gloria		We need to tape the interview, Suzie. No one will see it but us.  Now when was this, that Mr. Lombardo gave you the ride?
suzie		About a year ago.
gloria		He dropped Jimmy off first?
suzie		Yeah.
gloria		And when he arrived at your house, was anyone there?
suzie		No.
gloria		So you were alone.
suzie		Yes.
gloria		Did he come in with you?
suzie		I guess.
hunter		You guess?  Did he or didn't he?
suzie		Yeah... okay... he did
hunter		And then what... he touched you?  Did you maybe flirt a little...
suzie		I wanna go home now.
gloria		Suzie, look, I know you feel bad.  I know it's harder to talk here than in your room, but we need to get it on tape.  Just tell us what you told us before. Tell us the truth.
suzie		I didn't say a thing to him.  He just put his arm around me.  Told me I was pretty... I could be really pretty, he said.
hunter		What did you do then?
suzie		 Shit, what difference does it make... Nobody's gonna believe me anyway...
hunter		Suzie!  Did this man rape you?
suzie		Okay!  He did.  He pushed me to the floor and he did it to me.  Now, can I go home?
gloria		At that point were you able to fight him off?
suzie		No.  He stopped by himself.  Okay? That's all.  Let me go.
gloria		What was that?
suzie		He said, "No little bitch can ever make me come."
prisoner		So you're the new chicken licker.
hunter		... what happened to Kelly Lanier Van Ryan and Susan Marie Toller that will forever change the lives of these two young women?  What happened in those fifteen minutes alone with Samuel Lombardo?
hunter		Do you need more time?
kelly		I told him, no.  I said stop, Mr. Lombardo, please... I screamed for him to stop...
hunter		And did he?
kelly		No.  He raped me on the floor of his shitty house.
gloria		You've got nothing to be scared of, Suzie, just take a deep breath.
suzie		He pushed into me... I couldn't stop him... it hurt.
hunter		I'm sorry... you said it hurt?  Why?
suzie		Because... it was the biggest I've ever seen.  And I've seen a lot on their way through Jack's Fish Camp.
hunter		Ms. Toller, did Samuel Lombardo rape you in your family's home on the 23rd of April last year?
suzie		I said he did.
hunter		Ms. Toller.  I'm asking you now, under oath, did Samuel Lonbardo rape you?
suzie		This wasn't my idea.
hunter		I'm sorry?
suzie		Look.  I just don't want to get into any more trouble...
judge		 Miss Toller.
suzie		Mr. Lombardo didn't rape me.  He didn't rape Kelly either.  He didn't do anything.
jimmy		I don't believe it...
hunter		Your Honor... I must object...
judge		 I think I made it plain that the Court intends to near Miss Toller's story.
suzie		I'm sorry.
judge		Sorry?  Just how far did you intend to let this go?
suzie		I don't know.  I just wanted to hurt Mr. Lombardo.
hunter		Your Honor... Please...
judge		Any more interruptions Mr. Hunter, and the Court will hold you in contempt.  What you are telling me, Ms. Toller, is that Kelly Van Ryan is responsible for conceiving this entire charade...
suzie		Kelly's pissed at Mr. Lombardo, too. She's in love with him.  I mean her whole fantasy is him since her old man died.  Then she found out that Mr. Lombardo was doing her mom.  I mean that was it...
kelly		You stupid little bitch...
sam		I've found that adolescents make the best liars.  They're old enough to be good at it, but you want like hell to believe them, because they're still children.
ken		 Come on, let loose!
sam		I was just thinking about where I'm gonna stay.  I lost the house.  It's like waking up from a goddamn nightmare.
ken		You'll get over it. We've got a knockdown, airtight, motherfucker of a lawsuit against Sandra Van Ryan.
sam		Just like that?
ken		Just like that?  These people ruined your life, bro.
sam		You don't think you're overdoing it?
sandra		I hope you're going to nail his scrotum to the nearest wall.
baxter		That might have been a possibility, if little miss not-so-bright here hadn't started throwing things.
kelly		Fuck off.
baxter		See what I mean...
sandra		You're going to let them get away with this... this shit?  On the word of one little white trash bitch...
baxter		You like seeing your name in the papers?
sandra		You've got to be kidding.
haxter		The man's life has been destroyed. There will always be doubters, no matter what happened in court.
sandra		I'm not paying any idiot twenty million dollars.
baxter		I said that's what they'd ask for.
sandra		I hope you're happy.
kelly		Ecstatic.
ken		Tom Baxter.  Good to see you again.
baxter		Let's cut the crap.  What does your client want?
ken		Besides an apology?
baxter		Unless you're planning on leaving Blue Bay, there's gonna be other cases, other days... You might want to keep that in mind.
ken		Okay Tom.  My client wants your client to saddle up... so we can ride her ass all the way to the bank.
sam		Lizards don't seem to miss me.
art		I... You know... I...
sam		Take care of my lizards, Art.
sam		Kelly...
kelly		Drop dead... You know where my mom is trying to get the money to pay you off? She's trying to break my trust.  How do you like that?  I can't touch it until she's dead and she won't give me a dime and now she's trying to break it to pay you...
sam		Look, Kelly... I'm sorry... I know what you've been through... I should've seen something like this coning.
kelly		Why don't you start fucking her again. You can spend it together.
sam		You see.  I couldn't stay, even if I wanted to.
frankie		I'll be seeing you.
ken		So long, Tom.  Come by sometime.  We'll have lunch at the Beef Bowl.
baxter		I don't think you're gonna be eating at the Beef Bowl anymore, kid.
sam		Thanks Ken, you did okay.
ken		 Look, I know there's a part of you wishes none of this had happened.  But it did.  Now take the money and get out of here.  Find a happy place.
sam		Damn maid.
sam		Ahhhh!
sam		Jesus Christ, what are you doing?
kelly		So you got my mom's money.
sam		About six and a half million dollars.
kelly		Your turn to pay.
sam		God, you scared the shit out of me.  You must be crazy coming here.
kelly		Of course I'm crazy.  Ask my mom.
suzie		How much is about six and a half million divided by three?
sam		Jesus.  Two million one hundred thirty-three thousand three hundred thirty-three and change.
kelly		Hey, come on... We've got to have at least one victory party.
sam		Kelly, for christ's sake...
kelly		 Do it to ourselves?
sam		 We have to stick with the plan.
kelly		Stick?
ray		You saw the news today?
gloria		Lombardo's settlement?
ray		Hey, don't back away from it, you were right.  We did look stupid.  What you were wrong about, is who made us look that way.
gloria		Maybe Lombardo's attorney was saving the affair for the trial.
ray		I thought of that.  Then I said, come on, you're Lombardo.  Your reputation is getting trashed.  You want to stop the bleeding.  You don't want to sit in jail for three months.  Unless...
gloria		Unless what?
ray		Unless you're setting up Sandra Van Ryan for the big payday.
gloria		Why?  You ask me, Lombardo had it pretty good already, nice job in a beautiful setting, popular, an active social life.  He's gonna put this all on the line for some dicey play like what you're describing...
ray		 The job looks okay to us.  But look at it from his point of view.  The man's surrounded by wealth and privilege.  But for him... it's just a reminder of what should have been his.
gloria		So what about the girls?  Suzie's poor, but why would Kelly have to steal from her own mother?  Surely her father...
ray		 Her father didn't leave her squat.  The kid's got money in trust from her grandfather, but she can't touch that till her mother dies and Sandra seems to have the idea that Kelly ought to learn the value of a buck.
gloria		This one's got you working overtime, hasn't it?
ray		I flat don't like the guy, Glory.  He's dirty.  And I'll tell you something else.  You want to know how old man Lombardo lost his money?  It was after the war.  Van Ryan set up a corporation to develop swamp land, got investors like Lombardo to put up money, then turned around and got the state to declare the area an ecological preserve, on the sly, of course, but everyone knew it was him.  The freeway went to the coast, right where Van Ryan wanted it.
gloria		Eliminate the competition.
ray		You got it.  The rich got richer.  While the saps like Lombardo went belly-up in the swamp.
gloria		Where'd you come up with this stuff, anyway?
ray		 I net a guy in a bar.
kelly		Is there some reason why you're here?
ray		Curiosity, I guess.
kelly		About what?  How to improve your breast stroke?
ray		Actually, I was curious about how you see things working out, for you, Sam and Suzie.
kelly		Excuse me?
ray		You all gonna go down to the Caribbean together?
kelly		You're out of your mind.
ray		I've been a cop for a while, Kelly.  It's hard enough for one person to keep a secret, let alone three.  And then there's the love angle.  I mean do you and Sam really want that little pill-head around, now that you have the money?
kelly		Police -- God -- get a life.
ray		 You're good.  But you don't think that little ditz Suzie's gonna hold together, do you?
suzie		You don't know Duquette.  I'm the one he busted... He's a fucker, man... He'll fuck us both over...
kelly		Will you calm down.  Duquette's gonna come to you just like he did to me. You're gonna have to be ready for him.
suzie		Yeah, but he can't push you around like he can me.  You've got family and they've got clout.  With we it's different... with me...
kelly		 Yeah, I've got family and they've got clout and now you have me.  Right?  And Sam.  Believe me, Suzie, this dickhead's not going to send you anywhere.  He's gonna try and rattle your cage, and that's it.  Stay strong and he can't do shit.
suzie		 Man, I wanna smoke a joint.
ray		You ought to watch it with that shit, Suzie.  You get busted again, you go back in a two-tine loser.
suzie		You got something against cigarettes?
ray		Yeah, they're bad for your health.  I'm tryin' to look out for you...
suzie		That's cop bullshit.
ray		Well, you're half right.  Best thing you could do for yourself right now would be to talk to me.
suzie		About what?
ray		Every triangle I've ever seen never lasts.  Somebody's got to go.
suzie		Is this supposed to mean something to me?  What triangle?
ray		You, Kelly, Sam.
suzie		I don't have to listen to this.  And you can't shove me around.  I have friends now...
ray		Is that what you think?  You have friends?  Is that what they told you?
suzie		I don't mean who you're thinking.  I have other friends...
ray		Suzie, Suzie... This is me, Ray, you're talking to.  We both know you don't have shit, never have had shit, never will have shit...
suzie		Get away from me.
ray		Don't you see what this means?  You really think Sam and Kelly are gonna give you a third of the money?  You, the pill-head with the rap sheet?
suzie		Shut up.
ray		You know, I don't think I ever told you I was sorry about your little friend... What was his name?
suzie		Davy.
ray		 That's right.  That was his name.
kelly		I can't believe you called Sam.  What's the matter with you?
suzie		I'm scared, that's what.  I'm scared there's no one to trust.
kelly		You can trust me.
sam		Kelly.  Is Suzie there?
sam		Shit.  I was afraid of that.  She left this garbled message on my machine.  Can you calm her down?
sam		No!  Christ.  Listen, Kelly, I'm counting on you.  You calm her down. I mean do whatever you have to, whatever it takes...
sam		Then do it.  I need you on this Kelly. Do it tonight.  We'll figure something out... Okay?
kelly		Yeah, right.  Can you at least talk to her, on the phone?
sam		Put Kelly on too.
kelly		I'm here.
sam		Okay.  I want you to hear this too. We've got to be cool.  All of us. People think I'm rich, for Christ's sake.   I'm doing what rich guys do.  I'm spending my money.  It's more suspicious if I sit around doing nothing.  Now don't let this cop fuck with your minds.
suzie		But I..
kelly		Right.
suzie		Yeah, right.
suzie		You're gonna fuck me over, aren't you?
kelly		Oh, for Christ's sake.
suzie		You are.
kelly		Are you retarded, or just brain dead from whiffin' fumes out there in the swamp...
suzie		That's what I am to you, isn't it? Swamp trash.  It's what I am to everybody, just like my mom...
kelly		Stupid bitch.
kelly		Why do you make me hurt you?  It's like you want it or something.
hunter		Are you crazy, Ray?
ray		You heard Kelly say "Sam."  That was Lombardo on the phone.  And you saw the girls...
hunter		Ray.  The conversation on this tape is totally unintelligible.  What we have here, is you on the Van Ryan property, without a proper warrant, shooting a porn flick...
ray		I don't believe I'm hearing this.  A month ago you were pulling these two apart at the courthouse.  They were acting.  They were all acting, from the beginning.  And we bought it, hook, line and sinker... And now they're home free with six million of Sandra Van Ryan's money.
gloria		Which she might have saved, if she hadn't set out to destroy the man's life.
ray		 Cone on.  She bought the same story we did...
hunter		Listen, both of you.  You're not on a case.  There is no fucking case.  Am I getting through on this?
hunter		Oh, Ray... no...
ray		You think this is just about money, about us looking foolish?  Question him. You're gonna find a stone cold manipulative psychopath.  And those girls are going to wind up dead...
hunter		Mr. Lombardo, please.  I'm sorry about this.
sam		Give this idiot something to do.  Let him look into the Kennedy assassination.
ray		Guess I kind of lost it there.
gloria		You could say that.
ray		Were you ever in a situation where you could see a thing coming and you didn't do what you could to stop it?
gloria		We all have...
ray		I mean something bad, Gloria, something bad you saw coning, and you didn't do anything, and then it happened.  I did that once.  I don't want to do it again.
sam		You look pretty.
barbara		Thanks.
sam		Hey, I've got it, I may as well spend it, right?  I've always wanted to live where I could dive for my dinner.
barbara		And where might that be?
sam		I was thinking, Antigua, maybe.
barbara		I love Antigua.  Maybe I'll come visit you.
sam		I'd like that.
kelly		Jesus.  What are you drinking?
suzie		What brain?
suzie		What are you looking at?
kelly		 Nothing.
suzie		I thought we were goin' to a movie.
kelly		I think we just need to get wasted.
suzie		I wanna live at the beach someday.
kelly		Shit.
suzie		Kelly?
sam		Suzie, it's okay.  It's me.
suzie		Are you mad at me?
sam		No, no.  Look, I probably should have told you a little more, about the part I intended to play.  We'll go through it all again tonight.
sam		I'm sorry, Kelly.  I'm sorry it had to happen like this.  She was losing it...
kelly		 There was no way.  That cop would've gotten her to tell him... everything. She was weak and dumb...
sam		Are you okay?
kelly		 My mom would kill me if she knew I took the Rover.
ray		Been four-wheelin'?
kelly		Get off my property.
ray		I'm not on your property!
ray		You say she didn't come back last night.
ruby		She's been sayin' she was going to go to L.A.  But I don't know.  I mean all her clothes are still here.  An' she's missin' her graduation.  She should graduate.  She's a smart girl...
ray		May have been she just partied too much... But we'll look into it.  We find something, you'll be the first to know.
ray		It's starting, Gloria.  This is how it begins...
gloria		Ray.  We don't know anything yet.  She could be anywhere...
ray		I'm gonna take you back to the office. Will you put out a call on Suzie's car for me?
gloria		You have someplace to be?
ray		Just check out the car.
baxter		Smile.
kelly		You didn't have to fly back -- from -- wherever, for me...
sandra		I'm here to congratulate my friends and their children.  I'm leaving again tonight.
kelly		Don't bother.  I'm taking a trip.
sandra		Where, the mall?
kelly		A friend of mine bought a boat.
jimmy		It's those rocks, up there.
ray		You and Suzie used to come out here together?
jimmy		Yeah, sometimes.  Lots of the kids hang out here.  You really think something bad happened to Suzie?
ray		 Lombardo ever come out here?
jimmy		No.  But I mean... just the idea that Mr. Lombardo would...
ray		Way I hear it, he was pretty tight with the kids, one of the guys...
jimmy		Yeah, but...
ray		I'm going to be staying here, Jimmy. You can catch a bus up there at the lot, okay?
ray		People aren't always what they appear to be, kid.  Remember it.
ray		Lonbardo and Kelly killed her here.
gloria		Two kids could've gotten into a fight, lost a couple of teeth.
ray		Those are Suzie Toller's teeth.
gloria		Where's the body?
ray		The swamp, most likely... Lombardo's a swamp rat, knows the body will never be found there.  But he's made a mistake.
gloria		Her grandmother said she'd been threatening to run away.  And I found the car at the Miami bus terminal.
ray		You don't think Sam could've put it there?
hunter		Dust it for prints.  My guess is, if anybody murdered Suzie it was probably that little sociopath Kelly Van Ryan.
ray		How soon can we get something?
dave		We can get blood type right away. Dental records will take longer.  You want DNA, that can take weeks.
gloria		We don't know that, Ray...
ray		Kelly's next, Gloria.
hunter		 You get an ID, you call me.
ray		Will you do me one favor?
gloria		Ray, you heard him...
ray		What if I'm right, Gloria?  What if I'm right and Hunter's wrong?  What do you do if you see a bad thing coming?
gloria		And if the teeth aren't Suzie's?  You'll give this up?
ray		If I'm wrong about those teeth -- it's a promise.
ray		The teeth doin' any talkin'?
ray		What about the blood?
ray		 Second you get something on those teeth, I want it
sam		Hello.
kelly		I'm really serious.  That cop, he keeps watching me.
sam		Duquette.  Forget him...
kelly		I can't help it.  He gives me the creeps... I mean why was Suzie so scared of him?  She's not that way.  I think he did something...
sam		Yeah, he got her busted for possession...
kelly		I don't know... I think it was something else... Suzie says the bust was bullshit...
sam		And you believe her?
kelly		 I want to see you...
sam		Kelly... Relax.  Take one of your mom's valium or something.  In another week you get on the plane.  It's over.  We're rich.
kelly		But what if they find out... God, they'd put you in the gas chamber...
sam		So if they're tapping your phone, we're dead.  Stay in the guest house.  Skip the graduation parties.  You'll never see Duquette.  Okay?  I love you.
kelly		 Okay.  I love you too.
sam		Isn't that against the law, peeking into windows?
gloria		 Suzie Toller is missing.
sam		How long?
gloria		She didn't cone home last night.  We found her car at the bus terminal, but nothing to suggest she bought a ticket.
sam		Maybe she used another name.
gloria		Ray thinks she was murdered.
sam		I don't know what to say...
gloria		You could tell me where you were last night.
sam		Goddannit... I don't have to...
sam		Come here.  I want you to see something.
gloria		Looks like goodbye.
sam		Kelly's file.  Read it.  You're going to find an angry, sexually confused girl who's made threats on her mother's life and a female lover she'd never identify.
gloria		Suzie?
sam		You're telling me Ray thinks Suzie was killed.  I don't have to ask you who he thinks did it, do I?  All I'm saying is, read that, you'll have a new perspective on things.
gloria		Why didn't you tell us about this before the trial?
sam		Then -- I still had ethical standards to protect.  They meant a lot to me.  Now, I don't care.  And no amount of money can buy that back.
ray		Ray.  What's happening?
gloria		I'm tired, Ray.  I'm going home.
ray		Where's Lombardo?
gloria		He's leaving the country.  And I don't give a shit.
ray		The blood type on the rocks matches Suzie's.
gloria		It's Homicide's job now, Ray, let 'em do it.  I'll tell you something else, there's more to this story than you know, Ray... If Suzie is dead, I think Hunter may be on the right track...
ray		 Detective Duquette, Ms. Van Ryan.  Let me in.  Now.
ray		Where is she?
sandra		Where she lives.  In the guest house. Now will you tell me what this is about?
ray		I'm placing your daughter under arrest.
sandra		You can't...
ray		 Suzie Toller is dead.  You don't want Kelly to be next, then take my advice. Stay out of my way.
ray		I fucked up.  I lost control of the situation, the one thing they train you for... God, what did I do?
ray		I told Kelly Van Ryan she was under arrest for conspiracy and murder.  I did her rights.
ray		Kelly went crazy, started screaming.  I grabbed her, put her on the floor.
ray		Bit, scratched.  But I had her pinned. She calmed down.  I was going to cuff her... She said she thought she was going to be sick.  She asked to use the bathroom.
ray		I told her I was coming with her.  She nodded, like she understood.  We stood up together.
ray		She looked shaky, but lucid.  I thought, I would just go with her, stand at the door...  I didn't go down, but she slowed me up, just enough.  Before I could get to her, she'd turned on me with this small caliber handgun.  I yelled at her to put it down.  She got off a shot.  I took it in the shoulder.  I... I had no choice. I returned fire.  Two rounds, I think. In the chest.
ray		I went there to protect her...
chief		Detective Duquette; our investigation concludes that this was a good shooting. But that's irrelevant.  You were not assigned to this case -- whatever you imagined this case to be.  And now two young women are dead.  You are terminated with forfeiture of pension and benefits.
hunter		Suzie Toller's teeth and blood were found near the area known as Stoner Rocks.  Suzie's blood was found in the Van Ryan Range Rover.  This, in conjunction with evidence obtained by Detectives Duquette and Perez has led this office to the conclusion that Susan Marie Toller was murdered by Kelly Lanier Van Ryan...
ray		Buy you a drink?
sam		Jesus.  I wasn't expecting you 'til tomorrow.
ray		Nice girlfriend you had there.
sam		Yeah, well, you fixed that.  What the hell happened, anyway?
ray		The bitch shot me, is what happened.
sam		Well, shit, you're the cop, they don't teach you to disarm people, shoot them in the leg or something?  You weren't supposed to kill her for Christ's sake.
ray		Did you become squeamish about these things before or after you bludgeoned little Suzie Toller to death with a wine bottle?  We should be celebrating.  This thing worked out just like you said, only better.
sam		Kelly was supposed to be framed, not killed.  What I'm telling you is, I don't like surprises.
ray		Every cloud has a silver lining, partner.  Here's to no loose ends.
sam		Here's to no more surprises.
ruby		Gator can't see what's in front of it for shit.  They see out the sides.  That one don't even know Walter's arm's in his mouth.
gloria		What if something distracts it and it snaps anyway?
ruby		Then I guess Walter can kiss that arm of his goodbye.  He don't use it for no good deeds anyway.
gloria		I was wondering if I could ask you a few questions.
ruby		About Suzie?
gloria		Actually, I was wondering if I might ask you about Ray Duquette.
ruby		 He used to come around here.  He had a thing going with one of the girls over at the Glades.
gloria		She still work there?
ruby		No.  Not after that night.  It was right after that, Ray got Suzie busted and sent her away.  That's what there is to say about Ray Duquette.
gloria		Was there ever any kind of investigation...
ruby		Duquette always claimed the kid was dusted, came after him with a knife. But it was Jack's Fish Camp... This could be the moon for all most people care.  Wasn't supposed to be like that though. This place was supposed to be something once.  There were going to be roads and houses.  There was going to be a town. They were going to call it Salt Creek.
sam		Ray... you see that winch by your head? Take a couple of turns on it for me, she's luffing.
ray		You mean this thing?
sam		Yes, we call it a winch.  And these are shrouds, and these are stays.
ray		I thought this was supposed to be a vacation.  Why didn't you buy a nice big power boat?
sam		Come on, man.  I'll make a sailor out of you yet.
ray		Yeah, or get me drowned.
sam		Jesus, man... You okay?
ray		That how you planned it?  You take cut Suzie, get me to hang it on Kelly, then dump me in the ocean...
sam		Come off it, man... It was an accident.
ray		You... You're...
suzie		Rumors of my demise have been greatly exaggerated.  Nice move.  Good thing I was here to save your incompetent ass.
ray		You... I should've killed you myself. should never have left it up to him...
suzie		Shoulda, coulda, woulda...  Get him in the water.
ray		Sam, for Christ's sake...
sam		I can't.
ray		Sam, for godsake.
suzie		Hey, Ray.  Guess whose name is on the numbered bank account besides yours and Sam's?
suzie		Feeling better?
sam		That was about as grim as it gets.
suzie		The guy was history when he killed Kelly.  You knew that.
sam		But then you knew what he was like all along... Maybe his killing Kelly was a thing you had counted on...
suzie		But then it is better this way, don't you think?  No loose ends.
sam		That was the same thing Ray said.
suzie		Poor Ray.  Come on Sam, we did it.  We put the screws to the Van Ryans.  We won.
sam		Okay.  Grab that winch there.
suzie		Fuck the winch.  I wanna drive.
sam		Okay.  Come here and take the helm. I'll get the winch.
ruby		You asked if Suzie knew about the Salt Creek land deal?  Girl read every book she could find on it, the Van Ryans too.
ruby		Wasn't enough Van Ryan had to destroy the people who invested here.  He got to be old, he and his rich cronies would come down here, hunt and whore, act like assholes.  One trip he showed up with this young girl he'd picked up somewhere, gotten her pregnant then dumped her in the swamp.  That came with her.
gloria		And the child...
ruby		She had it, before she drank herself to death.  Wasn't exactly a love child...
gloria		Suzie.  Then you're not her grandmother...
ruby		Raised her like she was, but no, Walter's my only child.  He was a good boy, till the army took him.
gloria		So Suzie and Sandra Van Ryan were half- sisters.
ruby		And the other girl, Kelly.  Suzie's niece.
gloria		Thank you for talking to me, Ruby.  I am sorry about Suzie, she...
ruby		You okay?
gloria		I'm fine.  Nice TV.
ruby		There's an old saying from the Everglades -- virtue may be missed but sin can't hide.  Folks pay in the end.
sam		You know the place I'm talking about -- the big rocks?
suzie		You've got the pressure too tight. You'll crush the fucking evidence.
sam		We gotta stop.  I'm gonna come.
kelly		That never seemed to worry you at the Glades.
sam		That's not your line.
kelly		Say you love me.
sam		 I love you.  Now give me the line.
kelly		 No little girl can ever make me come.
suzie		Seems to like some of the same places you do.  Funny you never met.
sam		Yeah, real funny.  You're wrong about this, I could get busted on the spot.
suzie		Trust me, the guy's dirty.  He'll like it.  Especially the part about offing me.  Now get out of here.  Go make yourself a new friend.
sam		Buy you a drink?
suzie		You like bein' a caddy for rich kids' problems?
sam		We?
suzie		Well, I'd need the famous Lombardo charm, not that you'd have to do anything you haven't done already.
sam		 How...
suzie		Walter.  He's been aimin' that Brownie through knotholes for years.  I saw these, I knew he'd finally struck gold.  I can't decide which came out better, that little straw Kelly's got up her nose, or that vibrator you've got up her ass.  What do you think, Mr. Lombardo?
sam		 I think there's some things you do, you don't want to see yourself doing them.
kelly		I'm running away.
sam		 You think that's wise?
kelly		 I have toys.
sam		 Well, Z guess one taste wouldn't hurt.
gloria		Selling your boat?
walter		This was Suzie's boat.  Guess she won't be needin' it.
gloria		I wouldn't have guessed Suzie was a sailor.
walter		Old lady had her tested once.  They said her IQ was way up there, round two hundred or some such shit.  That girl could do just about anything, she put her mind to it.
end		 
****Dialogues from script :Wild_Things__Diamonds_in_the_Rough.txt****

marie		Today's the day, Mom...
marie		Just leaving.
marie		I'm... so... sorry...
elena		You will be.
jenny		 Happy birthday, babe. They ain't diamonds, but you're just gonna have to wait for those...
marie		 Thank you. Thank you so much...
jenny		Are you OK, hon?
marie		I...yeah...I'll be fine...It's just...that new girl...I almost hit her in the parking lot...
jenny		You mean the towel girl, the one who transferred in? Jesus, she's trouble. You know the only reason she's slinging towels is 'cos it's court ordered...
mosster		We're here today to address a growing epidemic that affects all of you.
mosster		National studies report sexual activity among students at an all-time high.
mosster		We'll see who's cheering when you've got an unwanted pregnancy on your hands, or get slapped with a paternity suit...Or arrested for date rape. But don't take my word for it...
principal mosster		Miss Richards and Dr. Borman are here to tell you about the pitfalls first hand...
kristen		Good morning, my name is Kristen Richards. I'm an officer for the Miami juvenile parole board, as some of you already know...
kristen		But that's not what brings me here today. When I heard about Principal Mosster's sex education program I thought I'd volunteer my own personal story, in hopes that you might learn from the mistakes I made. Back in High school all I wanted to do was get drunk, stoned and laid...
kristen		By my junior year, my life was a blur of cheap beer, anonymous sex, partying every night of the week...
elena		 ...whore...
kristen		And then, one night at some pathetic frat party, someone slipped a roofie in my drink...and raped me.
kristen		There isn't a day goes by my skin doesn't crawl when I think of the violation and humiliation I endured. I can promise you that if you make the same kind of wrong- headed choices I did, you'll be seeing Dr. Borman...
chad		Thank you, Miss Richards. My name's Dr. Chad Borman. I run the forensics lab at the police department, where my work has helped convict hundreds of sex offenders. Most teens like Ms. Richards never get their lives together. The physical scars may go away, but the emotional damage stays forever.
muddy		That's not...what I think it is, is it?
elena		Whattchya think it is, bitch?
muddy		One of them...Parole leashes...
elena		Bingo.
muddy		So you can't, like, go more than ten miles from the cop shop?
elena		Five. I got someone's panties in a bunch.
chad		And as for the perpetrators of this heinous act, even if you are still a minor, you will be tried as an adult, and, if convicted, you will do hard time.
chad		Are there any questions?
elena		 Yeah, I got one for Miss Richards.
kristen		Ask away.
elena		When they found the scumbag who took your precious flower of virginity, you sued his sorry ass, right?
kristen		Uh, no, actually, I was never able to make a positive ID. All I remember was his alcohol-soaked breath whispering in my ear, "You won't remember, but you'll never forget..."
elena		So what you're really saying is you fucked for free...
principal mosster		Miss Sandoval. You're on thin ice, young lady!
jay		C'mon now baby, you can do it...
jenny		Your stepfather's just got a lot invested in the team.
jay		 Just try to keep those legs together.
jay		Excuse me?
elena		You're Mr. Clifford, right? As in Clifford construction?
jay		I am, yes, but...
elena		I'd love to see one of your erections...
jay		Nice take off, gotta work on the landing...
marie		I can't do any better...
jay		No such word as 'can't. Now do it again. Only better...
elena		Bet you choke.
marie		What's your major malfunction?
elena		Just wanted to make a wager. Between best friends.
elena		You blow this dive, I get those diamonds of yours.
marie		How'd you know about my inheritance?
elena		Talk of the town, birthday girl. Today's the day, right?
marie		And what, pray tell, are you willing to wager when I win?
elena		I'll stay away from your stepfather. You make it, I won't be your new stepmom anytime soon. Whattya say?
marie		Take your sorry ass back to the swamps.
elena		Choke!
marie		Nah. I'm cool.
jenny		Denial ain't just a river in Egypt, babe. You got diamonds on the mind.
jay		I had it at the dive meet, I'm sure...
jay		Ladies, Gentlemen, friends, raise a glass to Marie, on her eighteenth birthday.
jay		She's become every inch of the woman her Mother hoped she'd be. Wherever she is now, Julie's looking down and smiling.
jay		And that's why, on your eighteenth birthday, Marie, I know your mother wanted you to have...
jay		... she wanted you to have... a wonderful birthday party surrounded by all your friends.
jay		Please excuse me.
marie		Jay! What about my present?
marie		Jay? H e's nowhere to be found. Frustrated, Marie finds herself alone in the kitchen. She angrily selects a bottle of Champagne, pops the cork. Before she can swig any alcohol she hears raised voices.
jay		You have my word, Mr. Barajas, the building is almost finished. Just give me a week, two tops.
cicatriz		Pray, Mr. Clifford, you finish before the eleventh day...
jay		Marie! Shouldn't you be with your friends?
marie		I was just...
jay		 I'll be right there. With your gift... just... wait outside, OK?
jenny		So? Did you get the key? Are you Blue Bay's richest bitch?
jenny		Holy shit, who invited her?
marie		This is a private party...
elena		Don't mind me. I ain't here for your stupid party.
marie		Get the hell outta here! NOW!
elena		Damn girl, whattcha been drinking?
marie		Stay away from my stepfather!
elena		Make me...
marie		This...trash is just looking for a meal ticket...
elena		Mr. Clifford. Betcha proud of little Marie now, huh?
jay		Party's over.
marie		But...what about...my present...
jay		I'm going to the condos. Sleep it off, whydontcha?
jay		 Not enough. Just not enough...
jay		What are you doing here?
elena		You promised to show me your erection...
jay		Is that my...camera?
elena		Lighten up, Jay.
jay		Enough's enough. I think it's time you left.
elena		Is that any way to treat Marie's new best friend?
jay		You're best friends are you?
elena		Sure. We've been having sleepovers. Talking about boys, swapping tips. She's been teaching me about shopping, I've been teaching her about giving mind blowing head...
jay		Gimme the camera back...
elena		Come get it.
elena		 Ooopppps.
marie		 It's present time.
marie		What the hell...
jay		What are you doing here at this time of night?
marie		I just...wanted to apologize for my behavior earlier. I was out of line.
jay		When we admit our mistakes we grow. You've made an important step.
marie		So...what about my present?
jay		Meet me at the Museum. Before school tomorrow. Now go home, get some sleep, I'm gonna finish up here...
marie		It was...it was what Mom wanted...
jay		You're the only one who can open that lock, but I'm the one with the key. She wanted you to have the diamonds when you were responsible enough to know what to do with them... M MARIE I'm...responsible...
jay		Really? Underage drinking, prying into my personal affairs, fighting...
marie		But they're mine. Mom left them to me.
jay		They're yours when I say they're yours. For the time being, I've got some major problems at the construction site. Deadlines have to be met. We'll talk again when you've done some growing up.
jay		Please, don't fight me on this.   We're Team Clifford, remember?
marie		 Team Clifford...
marie		What the hell?
officer entwistle		Mr. Clifford?
jay		Can I help you, Officer?
officer entwistle		You're under arrest on suspicion of rape.
jay		There must be some mistake, this isn't possible...
marie		Jay, what's going on?
jay		I didn't do anything, I swear.
officer entwistle		I'm afraid she's got a different story.
jay		Who's 'she'?
kristen		Elena.
kristen		Could you tell me what happened?
elena		It was Jay Clifford. He raped me...
morrison		You understand the seriousness of this allegation, young lady?
morrison		And you know that we'll leave no stone un- turned in the investigation.
21.		MORRISON There'll be a battery of forensics tests you'll have to take, humiliating stuff. And background checks, digging up all kinds of dirt. And you'll have to testify in court, face the man you're accusing...
morrison		You sure you want to go through with this? No harm, no foul, you can just walk away right now....
kristen		Please, Detective, this isn't the right time...
elena		I ain't lying. You think I'm lying?
kristen		If you're telling the truth, you won't find a more sympathetic ear...
elena		'If' I'm telling the truth...
kristen		And if you're not, there's gonna be trouble, you understand?
morrison		This is already trouble. The man you're accusing happens to be a friend of mine, and when the DNA tests prove you're lying I'm gonna come down on you like a ton of bricks, mark my words...
theo		We're gonna sue their asses til time runs backwards...
jay		 You've gotta believe me, I would never, could never do anything like this, you know that don't you?
marie		We're team Clifford.
jay		That's my girl.
morrison		Jay. Marie. Mr. Bloom...
morrison		 Would you mind waiting outside while me and your stepdad have a little chat...
jay		It's OK honey. Michael and I are old pals...
jay		How's the divorce treating you?
morrison		She's taken me for everything I'm worth. I swear to God, I'm never trusting another woman as long as I live. T heo intervenes...
theo		This is most egregious, Detective, my client has pressing matters at his construction site. He can't afford to waste time with this frivolous nonsense...
morrison		 Look, we're taking her statement right now, gonna run every forensic test in the book. Guarantee the case'll come apart like a $2 watch...
jay		She had my camcorder. Recorded what happened. It should still be at the construction site. It'll clear my name...
morrison		You'll be outta here by tonight.
marie		This can't be...
elena		No such word as 'can't'...
morrison		I'm sorry?
kristen		Maybe he recorded the rape.
morrison		And maybe he didn't. We'll never know. Tape's mangled. Forensics said it'd take months to fix it.
morrison		We were never properly introduced. Michael Morrison.
kristen		Miss Richards. Kristen. Miami Parole. Was just in town for a couple days checking in on some parolees when all this went down...
morrison		You think maybe you could lean on the girl? Get her to drop this nonsense? We all know she's lying. With all this Black widow shit going down, we just don't have the time or manpower to...
kristen		She might not be lying, you know.
morrison		What makes you think that?
kristen		Just a look in her eye. I...I have some experience...
morrison		What the hell?
chad		Gotcha...
morrison		What is it?
chad		Blood, fingerprints, sign of a struggle. I'd say we've got a rape on our hands, Detective, but we won't know for sure until we run the tests...
morrison		Fine. Just do it...
elena		You vampires really need five pints of my blood? That's like an armful...
chad		It's standard procedure in a rape test. Test for drugs and such...
elena		And such.
chad		We're going to need a urine sample. Do you think you could fill this?
elena		From here?
elena		Done. Next?
chad		Those are...
elena		Bite marks. He chowed down.
chad		They're clear evidence markers...
reporter 1		Any comment, Mr. Clifford?
reporter 2		 Did your stepfather rape that girl? How could he do something like that? Marie stops in her tracks, wheels around and addresses the throng of reporters...
marie		Jay...is innocent...
judge wilcox		Order!
chad		Came back positive for Rohypnol, a common date rape drug. Traces were also found on the bottle of beer at the crime scene. Both Mr. Clifford and Miss Sandoval's fingerprints were all over the bottle.
jay		I took it from her. She was far too young to be drinking!
judge wilcox		What about those other markings?
chad		I wasn't able to determine...Fingernail markings, possibly...
judge wilcox		 Please continue.
judge wilcox		Court's adjourned...
morrison		Not a fan of 'Hey, how you doing', are you?
kristen		Used to play at being a spider when I was a kid, creeping around silently. Guess I haven't grown out of it.
kristen		The forensics lab will have time to look at it now...the Feds have taken over the Black widow case...
morrison		Goddamn gloryhounds. They knew I was close. They just want to come in and take all the credit.
risten		You got a chance, Detective. To help your friend. Don't let this case slip away as well...
morrison		Chad, I got a rush job for you.
chad		No can do, boss. We're sifting through the Black Widow evidence...
morrison		Feds are movin' in. They'll be taking over by the case by the end of the week.
morrison		You find anything on that tape, you let me know, OK?
chad		Whatever you say, boss.
morrison		And make sure you get that money back into the evidence locker. A nd Chad's left alone with the shattered remains of the video camera, and a whole shit load of work ahead...
elena		Nice take off. Gotta work on the landing...
marie		What the hell are you doing here?
elena		Looks like your bling ain't blinging...
marie		Give me that back. It was my Mother's...
elena		Looks like she got ripped off Princess, where's the rock?
marie		Is that what this is all about?
elena		You're not a dumb as you look... J enny, followed by the rest of the diving team, come marching out of the locker room and see the two arch-enemies confronting each other.
jenny		 We got trouble...
marie		You're ruining my life, and my stepfather's.
elena		It can end. Just like that.
marie		Why are you doing this?
elena		Because I can.
theo		And why did you go to your stepfather's building site that night, Miss Clifford?
marie		It was my birthday. Jay left the party before giving me my present.
theo		And you say you saw Miss Sandoval leaving?
marie		I did.
theo		And how would you describe her appearance?
marie		She was...she looked fine. She smiled at me. Actually smiled...
theo		No further questions.
marie		No...I was...she wasn't invited...
marie		 I'd had a drink. Yes.
marie		A glass of Champagne. Or two, but...
chad		 Take out the chroma, raise the luminescence...
kristen		H oly shit...
jay		I'm gonna lose this trial.
theo		I'm not so sure about that. The tape's a fake, right? So all we need to do is...
jay		You had your chance.  Do you have it?
theo		I'm still dead set against this, Jay.
jay		I couldn't care less.
marie		What's the key for?
jay		The diamonds...If that's what it takes, then that's what it takes...
marie		But...they're my inheritance...
jay		All my assets are tied up in the condos, Marie. We have to pay this girl off, make her testify that she faked the tape, faked the evidence.
marie		But, Jay...they're my diamonds...
jay		As soon as I'm out of here, you'll have them back. I swear. I know people, who can...persuade her to hand them over...
marie		I t's wrong.
jay		More wrong than what she's doing to us? We're team Clifford, right? You know I'm not guilty. You know I could never do anything like this. So do the right thing and get me out of this hellhole...
marie		I can't...
jay		 No such word as 'can't.' Please...
curator		I knew the day would come, still doesn't make it any easier...
curator		The offer still stands, Marie. If you ever decide to sell them, please give us a first chance...
marie		I don't think I'll be able to, I'm sorry...
curator		 Me too...
marie		We need to talk.
elena		So talk.
theo		Somewhere private, maybe?
theo		Who's this?
elena		Uncle Marty. Legal Guardian. Drunken pervert, take your pick. Chill. He's out til morning.
marie		Let's just get this over with.  You won. You got what you wanted...
elena		 I just wanted justice...
theo		Tomorrow you'll take the stand, tell the jury you faked the evidence, faked the tape...
elena		 Really?
marie		We are prepared to make it worth your while.
elena		 Not bad. But I always wanted a family...
theo		They're yours after you exonerate my client.
elena		I'm afraid I'm gonna need that payment up front.
marie		No, that's not the deal.
elena		It is now. Take it or leave it.
theo		When this is all over, you'll leave town. For good.
elena		I go more than five miles from the police station and I'm straight back in juvie...
theo		I understand your Parole term is up next week.
elena		You've done your homework. Fine.  As soon as this thing comes off, I'm outta here...
theo		May I suggest a little discretion, Miss Sandoval. Certain...questions might be asked about this...arrangement if you were to...say...turn up to Blue Bay High wearing a tiara...
elena		I ain't gonna flaunt it, mate. I gots too much class for that shit.
marie		You're going to tell the truth on the stand tomorrow, yes?
elena		I swear to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth...
theo		It's your assertion that my client, Mr. Clifford forcibly sexually assaulted you on the night of the 25th. Is that true?
theo		Is that what you say happened?
elena		He... He didn't...
elena		....just sexually assault me.
theo		What...did you just say?
elena		He didn't just sexually assault me. He threatened to kill me if I told anyone... T he court is on the verge of erupting into anarchy. Theo's reeling, caught off-guard, stumbling over his words, trying to give the girl one last chance to make good on her promise.
theo		Isn't it true that you were inebriated during the assault, that it may not in fact have been Mr. Clifford...Or anyone?
judge wilcox		Sustained. Council will please rephrase the question.
elena		I was messed up, alright. In fact, only two things I remember. One was that bastard Jay Clifford taping me with that Goddamn video camera while he violated me. The other was what he whispered in my ear, right before I blacked out...
elena		He said, "You won't remember, but you'll never forget."
kristen		 What did she just say?
marie		Lying bitch!
marie		 No such thing as can't...
marie		Who's there?
kristen		Elena. Open up.
kristen		Elena?   Hello?
kristen		 Detective Morrison...
marie		Who invited you?
elena		Mother and Daughter...
marie		I was sure you'd blow it on the stand, going on about forgetting and remembering.
elena		Gotta make it seem authentic. God's in the details.
morrison		This couldn't wait 'til morning, Miss Richards?
kristen		Call me Kristen...
morrison		The Feds just arrived to take over the Black Widow case, I'm up to my knees in paperwork... K RISTEN You remember what Elena said, right at the end of the trial. "You won't remember..."
morrison		 "...but you'll never forget." What about it?
kristen		Elena's fucking with us.
chad		Mind if Chad joins?
elena		Fuck me...
chad		Any time. Any place...
chad		 Two beauties...
morrison		Just so you know, this is called 'breaking and entering'...
kristen		I know all about it. Especially having something stolen...
morrison		Like what?
kristen		Like my life...
kristen		Once a thief, always a thief...
chad		Little blue pills. One of the perks of the job.
elena		You won't remember...
marie		But you'll never forget.
theo		 Mr. Clifford, this is Kristen Richards, Elena Sandoval's probation officer.
jay		She want to pin me for some more crimes?
kristen		No, Mr. Clifford. I just have a few questions. I've noticed some inconsistencies...
jay		You've noticed some inconsistencies?
jay		Here's one big fucking glaring inconsistency for you: I was set up!
kristen		Maybe so, but that's not good enough. Why were you set up? What would Elena Sandoval have gained from all this?
ay		What the hell. I'm already in jail. How much worse can it get? I paid her off, okay? My assets were tied up in the condos so we used Marie's diamonds. defensive) It wasn't like I had a choice. She had me by the short an' curlies, understand?
kristen		But Elena's testimony was damning. Why wouldn't she play ball?
jay		What is this, the Spanish Inquisition? How the fuck should I know? Manipulative little skank probably figured she could bleed me for some more money down the road. But I'll tell you this much, I'm gonna get those diamonds back, make her wish she was never born.
elena		Later potato...
marie		What the...If anyone sees us together...
elena		What choice did I have? We got big problems...
marie		Gotta be careful. Make sure no one's listening. Now what's the 411?
elena		I...I think I fucked up...
marie		How?
elena		I don't know for sure...but I think that bitch Parole officer's made me...she was at my trailer last night...
marie		No bigee. You disposed of everything, right? The teeth, the video, all the research...
elena		I did, but...She's got a hard on for me. Wants to see me back in Juvie...
marie		I won't let the big bad wolf get you. I promise.
elena		I just want outta here.
marie		Be patient. I'll call the Museum Curator, have him prepare the funds to buy back the diamonds...
elena		Then we're outta here, right?
marie		Just sit back, relax, enjoy the trip...Don't forget to come again. T heir trembling lips come together like wet hot magnets...
marie		Can I help you?
kristen		I was wondering if I could have a moment of your time. Ask a couple questions.
marie		I'm in the middle of practice...
kristen		It'll only take a moment, Marie. Might even help Jay. Remember your loving stepfather? You want to help him, don't you?
marie		Of course.
kristen		Why'd you agree to part with your diamonds?
marie		How...
kristen		Jay told me. But why? They were your inheritance.
marie		Jay needed help. We're a team.
kristen		Team Clifford. Right. It's just...You must've been pretty unhappy when Jay didn't give you those diamonds for your birthday. M Marie's taking a beating, doing her best to remain standing.
marie		He said I wasn't ready.
kristen		You're 18. That's heiress payday, no? Must've crossed your mind that Jay might never let you have them...
marie		No, of course not.
kristen		And then this little scam artist saunters in and just takes them. With your help, no less.
kristen		But what I don't get is, why wouldn't Elena do what Jay asked, clear his name? After all, she'd gotten what she wanted.
marie		How should I know?
kristen		I mean, the only way I can make sense of it is if somehow getting Jay released from prison would spoil the plan.
marie		What plan?
kristen		You tell me... I INT. BLUE BAY PD HALLWAY - DAY
chad		Miss...Richards. Is...Is there something I can do for you?
kristen		I was wondering if you'd do me the favor of running a quick test.
chad		Uh, sure, I guess. Whatcha got for me?
kristen		Could you tell me what this is?
chad		No problemo. It'll only take a minute.
chad		Be careful, I got lots of evidence here.
kristen		Are these the evidence photos from the Elena Sandoval rape?
chad		They are, but...
kristen		Ever find out what caused these markings?
chad		Like I told the Judge, I guess they're finger nail markings...
kristen		They don't look like finger nail markings to me. They look more like this...
kristen		Would you say these markings are the same?
chad		W-where did you get that?
kristen		Marie gave it to me. But you already knew that, didn't you, Doc?
chad		 The pill. It's Rohypnol. Uh, Roofies.
kristen		Been there. Done that.
marie		Hello?
marie		What the hell, Chad? Chad fidgets nervously.
chad		That parole officer was sniffin' around today.
marie		Not you too. She's just trying to prove her worthless excuse for an existence. She doesn't have a thing on us.
chad		Yeah, but she's askin' the right questions. It's only a matter of time. We gotta make our move.
marie		No. We stick to the plan. Give the Curator time to come up with the money...
chad		We gotta move fast, keep the heat off...
marie		You can't take the heat, get outta the kitchen.
marie		What did you...
elena		Yello...
marie		 Chad fucked us.
marie		No, I mean he really fucked us. He drugged me an' took the diamonds!
elena		ell me you're kidding...
elena		We've gotta stop him.
marie		He's heading to the museum, got himself an 8am meeting...
marie		Not if we find him first...
elena		Pull over!
elena		Give us back the diamonds!
chad		Us?
chad		FUCKING HELL!
elena		 We're not hurting him, Marie, got it? We just get the diamonds back...
marie		I 'm not gonna hurt him. No way...
marie		I'm gonna kill him.
elena		Marie! Don't do this...
elena		Marie!
morrison		You look like you could use a drink.
kristen		When this is all over, I'd like that.
dammers		More Black Widow leads. I need you to put them in the evidence locker, Morrison.
morrison		That's not my job, Agent Dammers.
dammers		It is now.
elena		You okay?
marie		No, I'm pretty damn far from okay...
marie		He bolted...
marie		With the diamonds.
morrison		I appreciate the help...
kristen		Right back at ya.
kristen		You could have a helluva holiday on that money.
morrison		Recovered from the Black Widow's last score. If I'd gotten to the scene just five minutes earlier, I woulda gotten her as well...
kristen		What the hell...
kristen		Elena...
marie		Chad! There's nowhere to run to, you little weasel!
marie		Gotcha...
elena		This can't be happening...
marie		What now?
elena		I'm more than five miles away from the Police station. I go beyond five miles and the alarm goes off...
marie		You telling me your Parole Officer knows you're out here?
elena		She knows...
elena		Call it off, Marie. We gotta go or she'll find us here...
marie		You hear that?
marie		You go that way...
elena		 Please...
marie		 You see him?
marie		Elena?
marie		Useless bitch...
chad		Don't move! Don't splash, they can sense you in the water, they'll rip you to pieces...
elena		Hel..help me...
chad		No.
marie		What are you doing? Our diamonds are about to become dinner...
kristen		Which way, which way...
elena		Where are you going?
marie		Where do you think?
elena		I don't...I don't have a clue...
marie		Chad made us an appointment to sell these. I'm gonna keep it...
elena		It's only a matter of time before my Parole Officer finds me...
marie		Then I suggest you get to work...
elena		 Jesus...
curator		Marie? Are you alright?
marie		Never better. Got the money?
curator		I convinced the board of the extraordinary circumstances surrounding...
marie		Good. S he fishes in her bag for the diamonds...
curator		I...I received a call from your 'associate'. He said he would be handling the transaction.
marie		Change of plans. My 'associate' got tied up at work. Completely swamped...
marie		Calm down. It's just blood.
elena		Don't do this to me, please...
elena		You gotta have a lighter or some...
elena		Jesus...
elena		I'm sorry. I'm so sorry...
marie		So?
curator		I...I'm not sure...
marie		Can you get the cash or not?
curator		I can get the cash...it's just...
marie		Then let's have those dead presidents...
marie		What the hell are you doing?
curator		One last test...
marie		NO!
kristen		You okay?
kristen		Care to explain?
elena		It was...it was an accident...
curator		Fakes, I'm afraid. Made of glass. Can't believe they were our top attraction all these years...
marie		That's my inheritance is it, Mom? Goddamn Christmas ornaments...
curator		Marie, please...
curator		Marie, stop this instant!
marie		I hate you, Mom!    I'm glad you're dead!
kristen		I told you.
elena		Told me what?
kristen		That if you were telling the truth I'd back you all the way. If you lied to me there'd be trouble...
elena		Chad swerved off the road, I swear...
kristen		Just swerved for no reason. Just decided to take a shortcut through the swamp?
elena		It was an accident...
morrison		Accident my ass.
morrison		Forensics finds the head trauma that killed Chad Borman was inflicted by a single blow from behind. E lena looks up, through Panda eyes...
elena		The crash. He...he hit his head...
morrison		Was that before or after you dragged him through the swamp?
morrison		You got the right to remain silent, which in your case is probably best, cos of the shit you come up with...
kristen		That's two strikes, Elena. One more and you're out.
elena		I'll do whatever you want.
kristen		Yeah. Yeah you will.
elena		I'll tell you the truth. I'll tell you what happened. She killed him, and took the diamonds. Marie, it was Marie Clifford...
morrison		Keep bleeting, Missy. All the way to the Judge. I think its time he heard the truth about Jay Clifford's accuser.
kristen		Her arrest doesn't guarantee Jay'll be cleared, you know that. You need Marie, you need the proof they set him up...
kristen		You came so close to nailing the Black Widow, don't let this slip through your fingers, Detective...
kristen		Speak of the Devil...
kristen		You're gonna answer it. And you're gonna say that everything went fine. No one found Chad's body. The plan's still on. Do you understand me?
morrison		You thinking what I'm thinking? K risten's patient with him.
kristen		This is your chance. Feds can't take this one from you...
elena		Yello...
marie		Believe it. I'm leaving. Tonight.
marie		Don't you understand? There's no money. Nothing. Zip. Zilch. Zero. How am I supposed to take care of your broke ass?
kristen		Tell her she has to meet you. Tell her she can't leave...
elena		I...I gotta see you.
elena		Please. Just one last time.
elena		I think maybe...maybe there's a way we could still get some money...
marie		Okay, talk...
marie		School swimming pool. One hour.
kristen		Where'd you keep the wire taps?
morrison		Evidence locker.
kristen		Gimme the key.
elena		 Can you hear me?
morrison		She's gonna blow it...
elena		I..don't think I can do this...
marie		So?
elena		I had no choice...
marie		Blah, blah, blah. Get over it. He's dead. Now you told me you had a plan. Spit it out.
elena		Jay's got cash. At the building site. I saw it.
marie		That's your brilliant plan? It's in a safe, dumb ass. You a safecracker? Have you got magic fingers, gonna pick that lock? I don't think so. Next.
elena		Listen to me. We go to the jail, tell him we'll come clean, tell the police everything, if he gives us the combination. I'm still a minor, they'll send me back to Juvie. Shit, I could do that time standing on my head...
marie		How much money?
elena		Enough for you and me.
marie		We don't have to tell the cops anything. We'll let Jay's videotape do the talking.
elena		But, we got rid of the real one...
marie		I kept a copy. Never trusted you backstabbers.
marie		You're trembling.
elena		Marie, I...
marie		Ssshhhh...
marie		Alright. Let's do it...
jay		Well, well, well. Who'd have thought. What a pleasant surprise. I guess you guys have kissed and made up?
marie		Very funny. Did you know the diamonds were fakes?
jay		Your Mom hocked them years ago. Boozed it all away. You already know the end of her sorry story...
jay		So, to what do I owe the pleasure?
marie		We want money. Whatever you've got in your safe at the beach condos.
jay		Of course you do. Of course you do.
elena		We'll get you out of here...
jay		You will?
jay		Is that what I think it is?
marie		You give us the combination and this goes in the nearest mail box, tied with a pretty pink bow.
jay		How do I know it's the real tape?
marie		You're gonna have to trust us.
jay		I've been down that road before.
marie		This is non-negotiable.
theo		Sir, we have no grounds for appeal. This could be our only chance.
marie		What's the combination?
jay		I can't...
marie		No such word as 'can't'...
marie		The combination's the day Mom died, you sick fuck?
elena		Slow down!
elena		We're in a world of shit!
elena		We'll never get away with this. You know that don't you?
kristen		Come on, Elena...Keep pushing...
marie		One down...
marie		Two down.
elena		I told you not to kill Chad. I'll tell it to the police.
elena		I'll tell 'em you made me lie about your stepfather raping me, made me perjure myself on the stand, went and killed Chad, and now...
morrison		This has gotta end.
kristen		It's gonna end. One way or another...
marie		Money. Always in style.
elena		Why'd you do it? Why'd Chad have to die?
elena		You killed him, Marie. You murdered him in cold blood...
kristen		She's been made...
morrison		Stay here...
kristen		I got us into this...
morrison		Just stay in the car! Please...
marie		You stupid fucking Sherbert. You think you could sell me out?
elena		They made me do it...
marie		Morrison doesn't know his prick from a pogo stick. And that bitch Parole Officer, she hasn't got the balls for this...
elena		Please, don't...
kristen		I didn't have a choice. She was gonna kill Elena.
morrison		It's gonna be okay.
paramedic		We found this on the body.
kristen		They want me to bring Elena back to Miami in the morning.
kristen		I'm... sorry for this whole mess.
morrison		Don't be. It was my gun that fired the shots, so it must've been me who pulled the trigger. I'll take the credit on this one. After all the Black widow crap I had to put up with, I've earnt it...
kristen		You did the right thing...
morrison		We did the right thing.
morrison		I will. I will.
kristen		Now that this is all over, maybe we can have that drink soon...
morrison		How you holdin' up, Jay?
jay		Been better.
morrison		So what's next?
jay		No idea. Everything's gone. Repossessed. Guess there's nowhere to go but up.
morrison		I can't help but feel partially responsible. If there's anything I...
jay		I don't think so, but thanks.
morrison		Can I at least give you a ride somewhere?
jay		Ain't got nowhere to go...
morrison		 ... but up, right?
morrison		 Uh, Kristen, it's Michael again. Haven't heard from you. Hope you're doing okay. Everything's fine here.
03/22/2004   88.		MORRISON Haven't been any questions asked that I can't answer, an' no one's brought your name up. So give me a call back and maybe we can go for that drink... H e's cut off by...
recorded voice		BEEP. The mail box you are trying to reach is full. Your message has been deleted.
officer entwistle		You better come with me, Detective.
agent dammers		Detective Morrison. So good to finally see you.
morrison		What the hell, Dammers?
agent dammers		I should be asking you the same question.
morrison		It's...gone.
dammers		That's right, Morrison. Every last bit of evidence from the Black Widow case.
03/22/2004   89.		DAMMERS Not to mention the money you confiscated. All $427,000. MORRISON But how...
dammers		I was hoping you'd be able to answer that question.
morrison		What in God's name are you talking about? I didn't have anything to do with it!
dammers		Well, your key card was the last one that opened this locker.
morrison		Holy shit. Kristen...
pretty receptionist		D ade County Parole. How can I direct your call?
morrison		 This is Detective Morrison, Blue Bay PD. I was wondering if you had a forwarding number for Kristen Richards...
morrison		Kristen Richards. She's one of your officers. Has cases up here in Blue Bay.
pretty receptionist		I'm sorry, Detective. There's no one here by that name.
morrison		No, of course there is. I worked with her personally. I...
pretty receptionist		I have no record of a Kristen Richards ever working here. Besides, Blue Bay's out of our jurisdiction...
morrison		Oh no. No, no, no...
kristen		I can't believe Morrison just handed me the key to the evidence locker...
kristen		These are...genuine?
elena		Nothin' like the real thing. Switched 'em for the fakes right after Marie tried to pay me off...
kristen		They're...So beautiful.
elena		The mother.
kristen		The daughter.
morrison		She was the Black Widow. Her and that little...
morrison		Played me like a fool.
dammers		Hind sight's 20-20. No need to be so hard on yourself, Morrison...  That's my job.
morrison		You smug son of a bitch. It's not like you knew who she was anymore than I did.
dammers		That's the God's honest truth. But at least I didn't give her my evidence locker keycard.
03/22/2004   92.		DAMMERS And I didn't lie about who fired the shots that killed the Clifford kid.
morrison		What did you say?
cicatriz		The foundation is sinking. The entire site is a sink hole. It's completely worthless.
morrison		You and me both...
jay		Told me he'd never trust another woman as long as he lived. And then along came a spider...
kristen		A black widow.
elena		You want me to top you off?
jay		That'd be fine, just fine.
jay		She's got a good head on her shoulders.
jay		You two got me out of a mountain of shit, I'll tell you that. Craziest Goddamn scheme I've ever heard of. But hell, you played it perfectly.
kristen		My job was easy. It was Elena who had to keep it all together...
elena		Here you go, Mr. Clifford.
jay		Well, all that nasty business, it's behind us. Forever. From here on out, it's the good life.
jay		You two look so good, it's difficult to tell which one's the mother and which one's the daughter...
kristen		That's just the roofies talking...
jay		What did you say?
kristen		Delta Chi, class of '88. Hellova party. I'd never really tasted cocktails like that.
jay		I don't...whattya talking about?
kristen		It was like being awake though an operation. I could feel everything happening, but I couldn't do anything to stop it...
jay		Oh...shit...
kristen		You took something from me that night. But you left something behind...
kristen		Your daughter...
jay		I don't remember...
kristen		You may not remember...
elena		...But you'll never forget.
elena		Nice take off. Gotta work on the landing.
kristen		Let's go get our money.
elena		Almost done here.
elena		Not on your life. I gave him enough roofies to make an elephant forget.
elena		I can't believe we just gave up all that cash.
kristen		Forget it. The Black Widow's finally got an angle on our real prey.
jay		Who the hell...
kristen		Not enough though. Gonna need those Diamonds if you're gonna ride out this disaster...
jay		What? What the hell do you mean?
kristen		The building's built on a sink hole, Jay. You know it, and I know it. Gonna need to think fast if you wanna keep the Cubans off your back...
jay		How'd you...how'd you know all this...
kristen		It's what we do.
jay		We?
marie		I just want what's mine...
elena		The diamonds are your inheritance. You deserve them...
marie		My fucking Step-Monster'll never give me the Goddamn key...
elena		So you take it, one way or another...
marie		You take a check?
chad		Money talks, bullshit walks. I got strippers to feed...
marie		How'd you like to make some real cash?
chad		Chad likes the sound of that.
elena		Hey, that hurt!
marie		Shut it, bitch. No pain, no gain...
chad		We'll put you right here, and...
elena		 Will you knock that off? They're gone.
kristen		You're blocking our sun...
uncle marty		Ladies. Hellova job back there. Your best ever if I might be so bold...
kristen		This is our biggest score. You sure you can move it?
uncle marty		Not a problem.
kristen		Let's see the green...
uncle marty		Got another lead, if you're interested. Was just up in Boston, surveying a mansion that's just been sold.
03/22/2004   100.		UNCLE MARTY Termites already eaten most of it. Owner's shitting bricks. There's gotta be an angle for the Black Widows...
kristen		It's over. We had a good run.
uncle marty		Shame. Guess all good things come to an end. So, the diamonds...
uncle marty		How do I know these are the real thing?
elena		You're going to have to trust us...
****Dialogues from script :Wild_Wild_West.txt****

revised final draft		 May 14, 1998 WARNER BROS.                             1998 4000 Warner Boulevard                   WARNER BROS. Burbank, California 91522               All Rights Reserved  Rev. 4/9/99  THE WILD WILD WEST  FADE IN:  A1   EXT. ALFALFA FIELD - NIGHT                                    A1  A slight breeze gently sways the green and purple crop. The CHIRP of CICADA is the only sound.  SUPERIMPOSE:   1868 - ST. TAMMANY PARISH, LOUISIANA  But suddenly the CHIRPING GETS LOUDER and LOUDER -- BZZZZZ! -- until we realize it's not the cicadas, but a --  SWOOOSH! A lethal, razor-sharp DISC BUZZES up over the horizon, swoops TOWARD the CAMERA and OUT OF FRAME!  The CAMERA SPINS AROUND to see the disc flying away, chasing a man, THADDEUS MORTON, wearing a strange metallic collar -- exhausted, horrified, about to die.
morton		 Madman... Hideous spider... Run... Run! Warn the President...
morton		Noooooooo!!!!!
black		 DISSOLVE TO:
west		That's right, sugar, and you should feel free to treat him just bad.
west		 General McGrath's boys. I thought y'all was never gonna show up.
saloon girl		Mister West, you wouldn't be here workin' tonight, now would you?
west		No, no. 'Course not. Not tonight. Would you be working if you were up here with you?
saloon girl		Good.
dora		I'm sorry. That won't be possible. I have... tonsillitis.
big reb		Pack'er up good, Virgil.    Next stop N'Orleans.
saloon girl		 Jim!
west		Ah, this hole is a safety issue. I'm thinking, what if it starts to rain and the water level goes up. It could suck you right up. I'm protecting you. 
saloon girl		Problem solved.
west		Belle, you don't just ram a man's underbritches into a knothole. You wanna plug the hole, you ram your own britches in there.
saloon girl		Oh, Jim.
west		 Much as I'd like to take credit for that you might need to hand me my gun...
west		... Hand me my gun.
west		Okay, who just made a wish? Was it you?
west		I could sure use those clothes now.
big reb		Well, we got us a shy nig...
west		Fought five long years with the Union Army not to hear that word again. And you boys lost, remember?
west		How 'bout some pants!?
hudson		My employer, here in a brothel?  That would be quite... redundant.
hudson		You'll meet him when the time -- and place -- are appropriate. Now...  ... shall we go upstairs to check the 'merchandise'?
dora		Still not interested.
dora		 That doesn't mean a girl can't have high standards.
west		Could I have a little privacy here?
west		Thank you.
west		You'll have to excuse me, darlin'... but my evidence is getting away.
west		Sorry about there not being any towels.
west		Backwards-ass bumpkins got a wagon full of nitro...!
west		Whoa now...!
west		I said, whoa!!!
west		Well, well, this is workin' out to be a perfect day. My man...
gordon		 Good. You're going to be my little doggy. And when I say 'speak,' you tell me everything I want to know. Understood?
gordon		All right, little doggy. Sit up.  Now tell me who's in the sack next door. Is it the scientist, Dr. Escobar? Speak!
gordon		Speak words, dumb doggy! Tell me the name of the man you kidnapped him for...
gordon		Watch the swirling spiral!   Lie down, bad dog!
west		Didn't mean to startle you, ma'am. Looked like you could use some help.
gordon		 Looks can be deceivin'... dark stranger. I am perfectly fine.
west		I can see that, darlin'. Woman of your caliber probably gets top dollar, too. So here you go.  You can run along. I'll take care of McGrath.
west		C'mon, lady. You got the money. Have a little dignity.
hudson		Get Escobar out of here!
gordon		Let's go, Hudson... hands!
gordon		Thank... you.
west		U.S. Army... Now get outta my way, lady!
gordon		 I'm no lady! I'm a U.S. Marshal! You get out of my way!
lippenreider		 Get out of my way... get out of my way... U.S. Army... U.S. Marshal.
loveless		Oh, dear...
hudson		Federal agents inside, sir!
loveless		So Miss Lippenreider informs me.  Still, I believe good manners dictate we should send out...
loveless		... the welcome wagon.
west		So now what...?
house detective		Whoa there, 'pardner.' 
west		This gun?
west		Or this one?
president grant		Don't make Captain West any later for his appointment than he already is!
president grant		Been a lot of death threats lately ... Cabinet made me hire some damn detectives.  Drink, cigar?
west		Thank you, sir.
president grant		I hear you let General McGrath get away?
west		Sir, I had him right in my hands when some half-a-sissy wearin' a dress ruined...
president grant		 Artemus Gordon.
west		You... know him?
president grant		Of course I know him, he's the best marshal I've got! He's a genius.  Gordon has proven himself time and again as a very cunning operator with a rapacious intellect. Nothing will stop him from completing a mission for his President... except the impulsive actions of a headstrong cowboy!
west		Who are you?
president grant		I am the President of the United States!
west		Wrong answer.    Who are you?
president grant		I am the President of...  ... I'm Artemus Gordon.
west		The President went to West Point ... not Harvard.
gordon		Sir, in perilous times like these, I was simply illustrating how someone impersonating you could actually walk right into the very bowels of the White House...
president grant		You're clever, Gordon. One day it'll get you killed.
president grant		... And you, West -- not every situation calls for your patented approach of shoot first, shoot later, shoot again -- then when they're all dead, try to ask a question or two.  Working together will be good for both of you.
president grant		You work the way your Commander In Chief tells you to work.
president grant		Ten of our country's best scientists... all kidnapped in the last year. By General McGrath, it now seems.  The fact is, gentlemen, you've both been working on the same case all along. Why did it take you so long to realize it?
west		Well, sir, one of us was still trying to figure out if he was a man or a woman.
president grant		I don't have time for this bickering! One week, if we're to believe this...
president grant		This letter was delivered inside this.
gordon		 Marzipan, isn't it?
president grant		 Wait!
west		It's McGrath, sir. The South is rising again. I'm gonna stop it.
gordon		Sir, West's obsession aside, McGrath may be a vicious killer, but a mastermind he is not. So whom do we seek? After consulting with Intelligence...
west		 McGrath's headed for New Orleans. The longer we stand here talkin', the farther away he gets. I don't need 'Intelligence' to tell me that.
gordon		Ah, so that would mean you rely on ... Stupidity?
president grant		Gentlemen! I'm leaving today for Utah where the transcontinental railroads will be joined at Promontory Point.
president grant		For the first time the United States will truly be united.  You have a week. Dismissed!
aide		The President has put a private train at your disposal. Engine number five, track six.  Mr. Gordon, the item you requested.
west		Figures.
gordon		I call it the Bi-axle Nitro- Combust...
west		Save it.   I've gotta train to catch.
west		 Yee-haaa!!
gordon		Avant!!!
west		Stop this train!! You hear me!?!
gordon		 Thanks for dropping in.
west		Forget the bikes, the beards, the fake boobies. Put down the needlepoint and let's settle this like men!
gordon		As a matter of clarification, this isn't needlepoint. This is.
gordon		Right now, I'm putting the final touches on a new invention of my creation. I call it... The Impermeable. It's a vest that, when worn under the clothing, can stop any modern bullet fired even at close range.
west		Really?
gordon		But it hasn't been really tested empirically yet.
west		Get up!
gordon		 Guns. I find them so primitive and unnecessary... if one has done one's proper planning.
west		Yeah?   How do you feel about a fist?
gordon		I must tell you, Mr. West, I've always felt that allowing a situation to degenerate into physical violence is a failure on my part.
west		Well then, 'Mr.' Gordon, you failed.
gordon		I'm sorry, Mr. West, you brought this on yourself.
gordon		I love this train!
gordon		The President asked for my suggestions on how to make the Wanderer both comfortable and functional...
gordon		And while you're down there, you may want to avail yourself of my Sub-carriage Inter-rail Egressor...
west		Only one doin' any 'egressin' is gonna be you.
gordon		 'The opposite is beneficial, from things that differ comes the fairest attunement.' Aristotle.
coleman		Knock each other about all ya please, but harm my train and I'll douse ya like dogs.
gordon		That's my veal reduction sauce!
coleman		Well then, let's get on about our business, shall we, gentlemen? Now, where to?
west		New Orleans.
gordon		Shall we let Professor Morton decide?
west		Who?
gordon		Meet Professor Thaddeus Morton, expert in the field of metallurgy ... discovered in a field of alfalfa. Kidnapped from M.I.T. six months ago.
west		That's a man's head!
gordon		... And this magnetic collar was around it when his body was discovered. Haven't figured that one out yet...
west		That's a man's head.
gordon		According to the Retinal Terminus Theory... a dying person's last conscious image is burned into the back of the eyeball like a photograph.   Perhaps there's a clue there...
gordon		Morton's last image!
west		That's a man's head!
gordon		Ah. The refraction of the lenses causes the image to appear upside down. We simply...
west		It's McGrath.    I was right all along.
gordon		He seems to have something in his pocket... too fuzzy to read, though...
gordon		Mortification of the aqueous humor seems to have led to the loss of...
west		... glasses.
west		'Friends of the South! Come to a Surprise Costume Ball. April 14, eight-thirty. 346 Garden Street... '  Like I said.... New Orleans.
gordon		How about this? You could come as my man servant.
west		 Oh yes, Massa Gordon, dats what I'll do. And I'll jus' smile and do as I's tole so those people won' ever know that I would rather shoot myself in the head than play your god damned man servant!
gordon		I have a horse costume.  You could be the head.
west		The only thing I need to wear is this.
gordon		Okay, if you insist on carrying a firearm, I have something I think you'll find intriguing...
gordon		And it would go nicely with this...
west		Jim West does not wear a dress.
gordon		Then what's your plan?
west		How 'bout this: I'll go as a government agent who's gonna kill McGrath.
gordon		An armed, Negro cowboy costume, how creative. In a room full of white Southerners, you oughtta fit right in. You might even win first prize!
gordon		Listen to me. The art of disguise is what's going to get us into that party, thus allowing us to find these kidnapped scientists before they're forced to create something that will destroy this great country. 
west		Let me tell you a little something about beloved 'art of disguise'... That night at Fat-Can's, I knew you weren't a woman.
gordon		But I was propositioned by three men.
west		Gordon, you looked nasty. Your breasts were all hard and stiff, and were sticking straight out like two rusty cannons on a sunken ship.
gordon		These are a work of art. Scientifically and aesthetically perfect.
west		They look like shit.
gordon		Touch them.
west		I don't wanna touch 'em.   I can see I don't like 'em.
gordon		What, are you afraid you're wrong? Touch my breasts.
coleman		 I knew it. Well, I'll have no part of it!
west		There, Gordon, you happy? I'm touching your breasts.
gordon		Not so rough.    The buckwheat'll come out.
west		Buckwheat?   That's your problem.
gordon		What are you doing?
west		Now, squeeze this. This is what a breast should feel like.
gordon		Whoa...
west		Isn't that nice?
gordon		Very nice.
west		Now touch yourself.
gordon		You win.   I'm hard.
coleman		 Federal officers, bah!
gordon		I was just going to jot down a thought.
west		You know something, that's a good place to put a gun.
gordon		But then, where would I keep my notepad.
west		You know, Artemus, I think you underestimate the convenience of a pocket.
guard		You got about as much chance of havin' an invitation as him.
west		Matter of fact, got it right here.
rita		Put me in the dungeon with all those smelly, dirty bearded men ... but I am not goin' in there.
amazonia		You applied for the position.
rita		Yeah, a standing up position.   I'm an entertainer, not a...
miss lippenreider		Do not be selfish and stupid. He always spoils his new girl.
rita		Yeah. Well gimme a simple diamond bracelet instead of that...
munitia		It is not so bad... once the metal warms up.
dragon lady		What a terribly clever costume, Mr...?
west		... West.   Jim West.
dragon lady		Well... West meets East. Mae Lee East.  Are you here alone, Mr. West?
west		Actually I'm, uh trying to surprise an old friend -- General McGrath. Seen him around anywhere?
west		Dr. Arliss Loveless...? One of the great founders of the Confederacy with Jefferson Davis. Funny how most people think he's dead.
miss east		Tonight's his coming-out party.
miss east		See anybody that looks familiar?
west		Matter of fact, I do.
miss east		I'm... jealous.  Meet me later... in the foyer.
distaff corps		 'Mine eyes have seen the glory Of the coming of the Lord...'
distaff corps		 'He has trampled down the vintage Where the grapes of wrath are stored!'
loveless		 Don't you just hate that song?
loveless		Why, y'all look like you've seen a ghost! It's me, dear friends, alive and kicking! Well, alive, anyway...
loveless		 We may've lost the war, but heaven knows... we haven't lost our sense of humor!
loveless		Not even when we've lost a lung... a spleen... a bladder... two legs... thirty-five feet of small intestine and our ability to reproduce...  ... do we lose our sense of humor.
loveless		I owe a deep debt of gratitude to my friends across the sea for their comfort and... succor.
loveless		So...! Mi casa es su casa! Ma maison est a vous! Let the party begin!!!
loveless		Mr. West, how nice of you to join us tonight... and add color to these monochromatic proceedings.
west		Well, when a man comes back from the dead, it's an occasion to stand and be counted.
loveless		Miss East informs me that you were expecting to meet General McGrath here. I knew him years ago... but haven't seen him in a coon's age.
west		I bet a man like yourself would find it difficult to keep in touch with even half the people you know.
loveless		Perhaps the lovely Miss East will keep you from being a slave to your disappointment.
west		Well, you know beautiful women... they encourage you one second, cut the legs out from under you the next.
west		Hey, honey... I see a big ole spider up on the wall. Hope it doesn't drop down your pretty dress.
gordon		Peeking through the keyhole...? So 18th Century.
loveless		Your men will have their weapons tonight. And my promise that they will be part of the greatest military victory of this century!
loveless		And so you shall.  Have your men here at... 10 o'clock tonight.
miss east		I said to meet me in the foyer.
west		Oh, the foy-aay. Sorry, I've never been much good at French.
miss east		Au contraire...
miss east		So let's see, Mr. West... are you a dangerous spy of some sort? Or just a handsome cowboy who likes to... poke around.
west		Um... that second one.
gordon		Howdy there... big sturdy gal. Yer dance card full?
west		Thanks for helpin' me get to the bottom of this case.
west		Real impressed the way you got the dance floor staked out. Maybe one of your missin' scientists'll cut in.  I found that our host, Dr. Loveless...
west		... is meeting McGrath and his troops at Malheureux Point in an hour.  So you enjoy the party. I'm gonna go save the Republic.
west		But I will say, good work on your bladders tonight... they're damn perky.
george washington		Looks like we're gonna have to teach y'all a little lesson on how to behave in polite society.
west		Don't grab a white lady's boobies at the big redneck dance. Is that the lesson? Well, I learned it. Don't scratch your head with the shrimp fork. I got that one too. So whaddaya say we call this off?
gordon		I feel as if we know each other from someplace...?
rita		Try again, buster...!
gordon		Ma'am, please! While I realize I look like something straight out of James Fenimore Cooper... I mean you no harm. My name is Artemus Gordon. And you look like you're in trouble.
rita		 Really?
rita		I'm Rita. I was hired here as an entertainer. Not that I'm complaining, but what are you doin' in here?
gordon		 Looking for some missing scientists... not that I'm complaining.
gordon		I'm a special U.S. Marshal on assignment from the President.
rita		 Get me out of here and I'll take you down there.
gordon		Too late. The 'dungeon' is cleaned out. It was the first place I checked, right after I sampled the gumbo. Bit heavy on the okra.
rita		 Thank you... Artemus, was it?
gordon		One doesn't forget a smile like that. Now where in the world was it...? Have you ever played the Empire Room... the Bijou Cafe perhaps...?
west		Can I have everyone's attention please. I think we've had a series of major misunderstandings and I'd like to take a moment to clear them up. First, the whole drumming on the boobies thing. In my native land, Africa, my ancestors used drums to communicate between villages. I'm sure y'all can see that this young girl here can communicate all the way down to Baton Rouge. Hell, on a clear day, we might even get Galveston. All I was saying was, 'How're you doing,' 'My name's Jim,' 'How's your mama?' 
west		I'll take that as a no. Darling, would it help at all if I said I thought you were a man?
west		Guess not.
george washington		Hang him!
west		Hang 'm...!
west		 Hang'm!?!
gordon		 Meet my trigger-happy partner, James West... who doesn't seem to realize that my carefully planned diversion gave me the opportunity to search for the missing scientists.
west		Scientist, huh.
gordon		This is Rita. I found her locked in a cage in Loveless's bedroom. She's an entertainer.
rita		Um, maybe I haven't been quite honest about that... My name is Rita Escobar. I came to find Guillermo Escobar, the scientist, my... father.
gordon		Professor Escobar?! He was the one I almost rescued that night when...  That's where I know you from! Fat-Can Candy's... you sang before I did.
rita		Excuse me?
gordon		That was me. Burgundy dress with the bustle...
west		Look, Rita, I'm sorry you had the wrong agent working on your case. When I find your father I promise I'll send him back safely...
rita		He's impulsive, James.
loveless		Well, General, it's been a long journey from New Liberty.
loveless		Yes, and so do I. So do I.  If I'd only had the scientific understanding of gunpowder and primers that I have today...
loveless		Oh, you mean the stomach-churning carnage that earned you your unfortunate nom de guerre...
loveless		What was that nickname again?
loveless		My dear General, after donating half my physical being creating a weapon capable of doing this... how did you and General Lee repay my loyalty? You surrendered at Appomattox! So, who betrayed whom?
loveless		Munitia, make note. Turret speed needs to be accelerated!
amazonia		A bucket for the minister, please!
lippenreider		Scream. Scream. My head. I'm dying. Scream. Moan. Scream.
loveless		 ... We're going to need more loading drills! I'm hearing too much time between screams.
loveless		General, I understand your distress. But believe me, those men are not dying senselessly. It is for a far greater cause than you can imagine.
loveless		After you... sir.
loveless		Bloodbath McGrath indeed.
loveless		Well, that concludes the festivities. Ladies, feed him to the crabs.
loveless		But, my friends, that tank is just a little ol' toy compared to what this country's greatest scientists are cooking up for me next. So if I've piqued your interest, bring 1000 kilograms of your country's gold to Spider Canyon four days from now.  Now if you'll excuse me, I've got a tank to catch.
loveless		My destination is both the future... and the past! Forget Paul Revere, this will be the most revolutionary ride in the history of America!!
loveless		If you don't want to miss the ride, have the last payment of 1000 kilograms of your country's gold in my hands no later than Friday. That's when I make our little proposal to President Grant. One I'm ever so confident he's gonna accept.  Au revoir, adios, and ta-ta!
gordon		It came up out of the lake... from the way these corpses are positioned, laid down a 360-degree pattern of cannon fire... then disappeared in moments.  My God, what kind of weapon is it?
rita		Excuse me, I think I'm going to be sick.
west		It just rolls on and on. Makes a screeching sound -- like a wounded animal. Got a 'cabin' on top with a cannon... swivels 'round like an eagle's head.
gordon		You saw it?
west		Heard about it. Thought it was crazy survivors' stories.
gordon		What survivors? There aren't any here.
west		New Liberty, Illinois -- the free slave town just over the border. Just one week before the War ended in '65. I was in the 9th Cavalry that discovered it. Old men, women, children... they used them for target practice...
west		That's when I vowed to follow McGrath to the end of the earth.
west		I was hoping to kill you myself.
rita		That's a nice way to talk to people.
west		What do you mean?
west		Where is he?   Where did he go?!
rita		I'll tell you if you take me along.
west		 Just tell me.
rita		The girls at the mansion. They talk.  'I vonder if my hair vill get frissy in ze desert...? Vhere is diss Ooo-tah anyvay?'
west		Coleman... let's go!    Full speed ahead!
coleman		Aye, sir!
gordon		 I don't see why we couldn't have given her a ride back home to Texas. It is on the way...
west		On the way to Utah where our President happens to be. Maybe we oughta be worryin' about that little coincidence!
gordon		We wouldn't have known where Loveless was going if it wasn't for her. Seems a bit ungracious. Possibly perilous.
west		Look, all that would happen would be she'd get in our way and I'd probably wind up gettin' in the saddle with her.
gordon		Funny that you say that. Because I thought she was more interested in me.
west		Good luck on that one.
gordon		 Ha, ha, ha... You know, I can't imagine what Loveless -- a man without any reproductive organs could possibly want with Rita.
gordon		... especially her breasts. Did you notice the way one of them...  Both of them actually... to say nothing of her buttocks...
gordon		... and the group of foreign ministers at Loveless's party... What were they doing there?
gordon		 How long has she been here?
west		Since the first breast.
gordon		I am so embarrassed.
west		I'll spare you.  Make yourself a sandwich to take with you. You're getting off.
rita		But... I can help you.
west		How could you possibly help us?
rita		Well, I heard you talking about why all those foreign guys were at Loveless's party...? You want me to tell you?
gordon		By all means.
rita		 This is fantastic. You can cut it with a fork! How'd you cook it?
gordon		 Well, in a daubiere... a clay pot. A French method which...
west		What about the foreign guys?!
rita		They were mad about something, you know? Something about a real bad deal in Louisiana on purpose.
gordon		The Louisiana Purchase?
rita		And Queen somebody-somebody of France got swindled.
gordon		Queen Isabella of Spain.
west		Gordon, this is crazy. She doesn't know what she's talking about!
west		 Coleman, stop the train! Miss Escobar's getting off.
rita		 I'm a frightened, starving, half- naked young woman who only wants to find her father!
west		 Coleman... stop the train.
rita		Please, Jim. My father's the only family I've got. What am I supposed to do? Sit home and wait for news he's been killed? Or go do something! What would you do, Jim?!
west		Look, I got nothing against you, Rita. It's just that... What's going to happen when we catch up to Loveless... with you on the train?
rita		I know you'd never let him take me back. I've seen you shoot.
gordon		I assure you, Rita, an attack by Loveless would be an exercise in futility.  ... Allow me to demonstrate how my design suggestions have made the Wanderer impervious to attack.
west		I'm the impervious part.
gordon		Hardly. Completely armor- plated...
gordon		An attacker would find the lighting inside extremely... unflattering.
gordon		And if, by some inconceivable fluke, they did manage to gain entrance...  But depress the number... a sleeping gas bomb. Effective in under three seconds.
gordon		So rest assured, Rita... you are completely safe within these walls.
west		I don't know about you, ma'am, but I know I'll be sleeping a whole lot better tonight...  ... assuming Loveless barges in here and feels like a game of pool.
rita		Speaking of sleeping, I'm pretty tired. Artemus, do you think I could borrow something to wear?
west		I've got somethin' you might use. It ain't stylish, but it's practical...
west		Loveless kidnapped two chemists, that means there's gonna be explosives. He's got a metallurgist, so there's gonna be heavy armor. And he's got Rita's father, who -- according to you -- is the world's foremost specialist in hydraulics. Which means, whatever it is... it's gonna move.
west		So what, is he building that's gonna make the President fall to his knees and surrender the country?
gordon		A bedside heater.
west		What?
gordon		Rita. She    needs a bedside heater. I mean, it   gets cold in there, you know, with   the stained glass window right over   the --
gordon		Such a pleasant girl.   A real breath of fresh ass.
west		You said ass.
gordon		Did I?   No...
rita		What's going on?
gordon		Stay back here, take cover!
west		What the hell is this?
gordon		I took the liberty of installing it while you were sleeping.
west		Leave my stuff alone!
coleman		Am I missin' somethin' here...?
loveless		Amazonia, shall we disabuse our friends of the notion that one's problems are solved when we see the light at the end of the tunnel!
gordon		Jim, we're the ones chasing Loveless, correct?  Then perhaps you could explain what they're doing behind us.
west		They couldn't fire the cannon at us from in front. Any other questions?
west		Would it put you out too much to throw me a rope and hit your little secret button?
gordon		I taught him how it worked.
rita		You know you could put a gun on that thing.
munitia		I have them square in my sights, sire.
loveless		 Fire away!
loveless		Close the fire door!
rita		I won't let Loveless take me again! I'd rather be dead!
gordon		 That's not a good one to wish for.
rita		Please, Artemus, don't leave me alone!
rita		It's a trick, I know Loveless.
gordon		Rita, no!   It's just...
west		Too damn late, is what it is.
west		 An innocent billiard ball this way, but depress the number and on impact... a sleeping-gas bomb.
gordon		Don't move!
loveless		Continue, Miss Lippenreider...
miss lippenreider		 West. Let go of my leg! Gordon. Listen to me. Loveless collared us with the same metal device we found on Morton.
loveless		Oh, Munitia... I hope we're not going to leave evidence behind like we did last time.
munitia		Nitro this time, sire.
loveless		 Good morning, gentlemen! I trust you slept well.
gordon		What have you done with Rita?
loveless		Rita, is it? How familiar! Rita is sleeping off the after-effects in the stateroom.  Quite lovely, isn't she? Who knows... I might even become 'familiar' with her myself.
west		And that would become one more reason why I'm going to kill you.
loveless		Yes, Mr. West, I'm sure a well- endowed blackamoor like yourself must find it absolutely impossible... that a freak like me could fully enjoy the pleasure of a woman. But having witnessed my use of mechinology so far... wouldn't you think I could provide myself with something for the lower half of my body that was hard-pumping and indefatigably steely?
loveless		... And speaking of 'hard pumping...' Mr. Coleman, full steam ahead!
loveless		What a marvelous train! You don't mind if I borrow it, do you, gentlemen? 
west		Gordon, get out your little tool kit and get this damn thing off of me!
gordon		'Gentlemen, welcome to the Loveless Experimental Camp for Political Dissidents. There are no guards. No barbed wire. As long as you stay within the designated perimeter, you will stay alive.'
miss lippenreider		West. How do you know it's not just bullshit? Gordon. Step over the fence and find out. Rita and I will put flowers on your grave every year.
west		I don't have time for this.
gordon		Wait, I have an auxiliary tool kit!
west		See?     Nothing happened.
gordon		Oh, really...?
west		Is it too late to take it off of me now?
munitia		Caviar...?
lippenreider		Blini...?
loveless		 Rita, my dear, not that I'm ungrateful to Providence for bringing you back to me...
loveless		... I'm just a wee bit curious as to how you managed to wind up with them.
rita		 Well, they uh... seemed so... sure that they could find you... and I thought if I stayed with them... they'd lead me back to... all my friends...
rita		And not to give you a big head but...  I kinda missed you.
loveless		 Isn't that a coincidence?    I miss me, too.
gordon		Head for that gully!
west		When I give the signal.   Jump off the cliff into my arms.
gordon		Are you crazy?! Do you see what's down there?
west		 Five, four, three, two...
gordon		Forget it.   I'm not doing it...
west		One...
gordon		Oh shit!
gordon		I just remembered... I can't swim!
west		You won't have to!
west		Maybe I should have stayed inside that fence another moment or two.
west		All right, Gordon, what's your plan? How are you gonna get this damn thing off my neck?
gordon		Excuse me?
west		Isn't that why you're here? 'Cause you're the master of, you know, mechanical stuff?
gordon		 Oh. Oh, I see. Now I'm the master of... 'mechanical stuff.' As opposed to five minutes ago, when I was trying to collect my thoughts and figure out a way to get us out of these contraptions! But no!
gordon		-- That wouldn't have been any fun for a certain somebody, and I won't mention any names -- Jim West! -- who decided to take me on a bracing romp through a cornfield and play a fanciful game of hide and seek with serrated, spinning death discs, while our only mode of transportation is in the hands of a sadistic madman with weapons of mass destruction, who kidnapped Rita, and is on his way to kill our President and take over the country!
west		Hey, calm down, Gordon...
gordon		 No! Because I'm the 'Master of Mechanical Stuff!' And I have to help YOU! Because you're the 'Master of Stupid Stuff!'
west		Gordon...
gordon		You want to get that collar off? Fine! Let's do it the fun, Jim West way!  Let's bash it with a rock!
west		Gordon, you don't want to do that.
gordon		 Oh, but I do.
gordon		 That's odd. What did you do?
west		I didn't do shit!
gordon		No, you must've reversed the polarity of the magnets.
west		I did not do shit!  That's it --
gordon		Are you all right?
west		Oh, I'm peachey. Now help me get my boot off!
west		Ahhhh!
gordon		Apologies, apologies.
west		Do me a favor. When you're telling this story to your grandkids, leave this part out.
gordon		Don't worry.
west		Now, when I undo your belt, I'm going to run as fast as I can that way, and you run as fast as you can the other way. Understand?
gordon		You're going to run as fast as you can one way and I'm going to run as fast as I can the other...? Ingenious.
west		One... two...  Three!
west		!
gordon		!
west		        you!
gordon		    yourself!
west		I do not want to spend the rest of my life looking like a meatball on a plate.
gordon		We're going to have to discuss bathroom etiquette soon. Very soon.
gordon		Aha. My auxiliary tool kit. I forgot all about it. It must've slipped out of my pocket.
west		Your pocket? Why wasn't it attached to some spring-loaded something-or-other that shoots out of your ass?
gordon		Because that, my friend, would be uncomfortable.
west		Why didn't you tell me you had an 'auxiliary' tool kit?
gordon		I did tell you, but in your zeal to run and leap off a two-hundred- foot cliff, I don't think you heard me.
west		What?!
gordon		'... Take physic, pomp; Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel, That thou mayst shake the superflux to them, And show the heavens more just.'
gordon		What?!
west		You know, Gordon, you can be quite annoying -- flaunting that fancy education.
gordon		Well, truth be told, I never had a fancy education -- not a formal one, anyway.
west		 The Harvard thing seems pretty formal to me.
gordon		This ring? This ring isn't real. Do you want it? 
west		No. How did you wind up in this line of work?
gordon		The pinnacle of my life in the theater came in a production of Our American Cousin -- a light comedy -- at Ford's Theater in Washington. There was this one line I had... always got the biggest laugh in the show. One night, it drowned out the gunshot that killed President Lincoln.  I decided to devote my talents to making sure that never happened again.
gordon		Uh... There's a spider on your hand. Doesn't that bother you?
west		She doesn't want any trouble. She's just trying to get warm.
gordon		How come you know so much about the desert, anyway?
west		The Indians taught me. I lived out here when I was a boy.
west		Hey -- watch --
west		The desert wasp... one of the world's great hunters. She'll kill the tarantula -- and lay her eggs on it, so her babies can have something to eat.
gordon		Now I'm really hungry.  How did your parents, who I assume were Negroes, feel about you being raised by Indians?
west		They didn't have much to say about it. I was sent to another plantation when I was little. Ran away as soon as my legs were strong enough to take me.
gordon		Did you ever see your family again?
west		Yeah...  They were at the camp at New Liberty.
gordon		I'll help you get him, Jim.
gordon		You have no idea where you're going, do you?
west		I know exactly where I'm goin' ... Spider Canyon.
west		 But I'm never gonna get there with you draggin' that damn thing around!
gordon		While a magneto of this power may not inspire your scientific curiosity, it does mine. Besides, you never know when it might come in handy.
west		Arte... when you're right, you're right.
gordon		Well I think our partnership is taking a big step forward. You finally admitted I was right about something.
gordon		Now... how about admitting you were lost?
west		Don't push it.
gordon		Jim, I know I've hallucinated it several times before, so is that really the Wanderer?
west		That's the Wanderer.
gordon		And would it be too much to hope that I'm simply seeing a World's Fair down there... ? 
west		Yeah, it would. That's Loveless' Lair.
gordon		Now that's impressive.
west		Nice to see an invention that actually works.
gordon		 We'll see about that. The fool doesn't even realize he's trapped.
west		Gordon, let's ride!  You do know how to ride...?
west		... A horse, I mean.
gordon		 Yes... I know how to ride a horse. When the situation calls for something primitive.
west		How about now? There's a big spider stompin' towards our President!
gordon		I was just thinking about another spider. Remember in the desert, when that little wasp killed the tarantula...?
west		Yeah. Well, the wasp had a small advantage. It could fly.
gordon		Exactly!
gordon		In 1540, Leonardo Da Vinci invented a flying machine called the 'Ornithopter.' Though he never actually flew it...
west		Artemus! There's no time for plans or half-cocked inventions! They don't work. We gotta stick to what we're each good at!
president grant		... as this railroad unites the two great oceans of this world.
loveless		Well, isn't this a coincidence! I'm out for a little mornin' ride, and right in the middle of nowhere, I bump into General Ulysses S. Grant himself!  We've never been properly introduced. I'm Dr. Arliss Loveless, formerly with the Confederate Army.
president grant		Yes, Dr. Loveless, what can I do for you today?  Flank him, left and right.
loveless		I have a humble abode nearby, and I hope you'll accept my hospitality. I have a little proposition to make.
president grant		What proposition is that?
loveless		The unconditional and immediate surrender of the United States of America to the Loveless Alliance.
president grant		I didn't realize we were at war.
loveless		How about now...?
loveless		Now just who are you?
president grant		 Gordon, you've got a lot of brass. Where's West?
gordon		You know him, sir...
loveless		Take them both!!!
president grant		Well, Gordon... was this part of your plan?
gordon		I'm by your side, sir.   That's what's important.
loveless		Bonjour, buenas tardes and good day! Great glorious day! A day of healing for the wrongs that have been done to us all!
loveless		... Oh, how long have we waited!
loveless		 ... 1776, wasn't it, old bean? Most expensive cup o' tea in history...!
loveless		 Today I'm proud to be able to sit before you and tell you the wrongs will be righted... the past made present... the United, divided!
loveless		Great Britain gets back the thirteen original colonies... minus Manhattan.  And the Louisiana Purchase reverts back to the King of France!
rita		Queen of Spain. King of France. I was close.
munitia		 Shut up and listen to a real genius!
loveless		And a tiny piece for me to retire on.
loveless		My partner nations insist that we make this as legal as possible. Personally, I like the symmetry of it. After all wasn't it you who made us sign a surrender at Appomattox?
president grant		Never will I sign that paper, never will the United States ever surrender!
loveless		Well, sir, we're at loggerheads then, aren't we? And I suppose the threat of death to someone with your valorous war record, would mean nothing.
loveless		... so, if you still refuse to sign this surrender... we'll start by shooting your man, Gordon.
rita		Artemus!
gordon		 Don't worry, I'm wearing the Impermeable.
gordon		If I may have one request... it's that she aim at my heart... which has loved this great country so much!
loveless		 Shoot him in the head.
gordon		Great.
chanteuse		 'Ohhh... Hangtown gals are plump and rosy...'
chanteuse		 'Hair in ringlets, mighty cozy...'
loveless		A new girl!   What a nice surprise!
chanteuse		'Painted cheeks and frilly corsets.'  Touch them...'
chanteuse		'... And they'll sting like hornets!'
loveless		 Ebonia! Why are you so cruel to me?
gordon		 I have a dress like that.
chanteuse		 'Hangtown gals are lovely creatures Think they'll marry Mormon preachers.'
chanteuse		 'Heads thrown back to show their features...'
coleman		Go, Ebonia, go.
west		 Ha... Ha... Hangtown girls...
gordon		Not to sound ungrateful, but you're a little over the top.
west		 Ha... Ha... Ha...
gordon		Let me warn you about that dress...
west		Gotta go. Big finish...  'Ha, ha, ha! Hangtown gals!!!'
president grant		Where'd those come from...?
coleman		 Captain West.
rita		She's... no...!
west		 'Ha, ha, ha... Hang... Town... Girls!!!'
west		 Wait a minute. What the hell is this?
rita		Serves you right for staring at them.
loveless		Kill him!  Him! Him! The girl!
gordon		Was that the eight ball?
west		Mmm-hmm.
gordon		That one's an incendiary bomb.
rita		 Meet me after the show!
coleman		Special Marshal... President thought you needed some lookin' after.
french minister		Monsieur, we are your partners! You can't let us die in this fire!!
loveless		It's not the first time y'all have been burned in America.
coleman		This is diabolical! They've got the President and I've still got that silly song in my head!
gordon		 C'mon we gotta go! We gotta ride horse! Something!
west		No, Arte.   Right now, we need a plan.
west		That flyin' machine idea of yours... were you just acting like you knew what you were talking about... or could you build it?
west		You're not makin' me feel any better.
coleman		Here's a coupla bon voyage presents.
gordon		Coleman! Must you smoke when handling explosives!
west		He's just a little nervous 'cause no one's ever flown before.
west		Avant...! Avant!!!
gordon		We're not getting enough lift! We need more speed!
west		Hey, uh... that's the cliff over there, you know?
gordon		Yes, I do know.
gordon		 It worked...? It worked!!
west		 If you had to get one right, I'm real glad it was this one.
gordon		 Yeee-haaa!
loveless		Mr. President, I'll ask you once again. Sign the surrender or I decimate this town!
president grant		You've had my answer.
loveless		 I find the sound of people screaming while they get blown to smithereens, ruins the ear for music. Don't you?
loveless		Commence firing!
gordon		I think I'll call it...
west		Lemme guess... an Elevation Enhancer?
gordon		 No, Air... Gordon.
west		Go down, down there!
gordon		 You can't just 'go down there.' Flight depends on lift, which must be calibrated to the angle of descent...
west		Shut up and go down there, will ya?
loveless		Well, Mr. President. Have you had enough yet? Would you like to sign the surrender or shall we set a course for Denver? Wichita? Washington, perhaps?
president grant		Well, I'll be damned... it's West and Gordon... flying!
president grant		Keep that surrender handy. I think you're going to need it!
loveless		Don't be too sure...
loveless		I'm through with diplomacy... Take him away and kill him!
west		What does your boy da Vinci say about puttin' this bird down?
gordon		I don't think he thought it would ever work, so he didn't get that far. I'm open to suggestions.
west		Take out as many bad guys out as you can.
loveless		Munitia!   Munitia!!!
gordon		Sorry about that, sir. Nose up, flaps down. Have to remember that next time.
president grant		Son, never apologize for saving a President's life.
loveless		Gentlemen, I am truly impressed by your effort and ingenuity. Why not swear an oath of loyalty to me... and forego your executions.
west		Why not? Well, I guess maybe I'd rather see what happens when I stuff your ass into that cannon up there and fertilize the landscape.
gordon		Uh, Jim, I think a polite 'no' would suffice...
loveless		Lippenreider, take over the controls.  We may not have a woodshed on board, but that boy is gonna get a whoopin' anyway!
west		So, I guess you're the one who's gonna give me my whoopin'.
west		Pfft.   I got one a' those.
west		But you've got two of those.  Okay, lemme talk to Gordon, I'll see if he can...
west		Damn.
west		No more Mister Knife guy!
shovel guy		I learned that from a Chinaman.
west		I just made that up.
west		Don't forget your shovel!
west		 Is that all you got for me, Loveless?!
west		Uh, I just threw my shovel out. So this really isn't fair. If you don't mind, I'd like to...
west		 Noooo.
west		Sorry.
metal head		Urrrrrrrrrrggggghhh!!!
west		 You guys just don't get out enough.
west		When you get right down to it, Loveless, you just can't beat a good pair of legs.
loveless		 You're obviously not a poker player, Mr. West...
loveless		Two pair always beats a pair.
loveless		Now... Was it someone particularly close to you who perished in that military action?
loveless		 Hmmm.   Well, that hit a nerve.
loveless		A mother, perhaps? A father?
loveless		It feels so good to stretch my legs.
loveless		I likes to beat my feet on the Mississippi mud!
gordon		Stop this violence!
president grant		Drop 'em.
loveless		You expect to kill me with that little pea shooter?
gordon		If I have to.    Yes.
loveless		Why is it, that I'm unafraid?  I believe you gentlemen are the polar opposites of a moral dilemma and I'm stuck in the middle. On one end, we have Mr. West, a man of primitive vigours uncomplicated by intellect. And on the other, there's Mr. Gordon. A man of ideas, but unlike myself, lacks the passion to kill for them. He'd like to be able to act his way out of it. And for some reason when he's actin', someone always seems to get killed.
west		 Shoot him, Gordon...!
loveless		I'm right about you, aren't I, Gordon? And that's why I'm gonna kill your friend here. Then I'm going to kill you.
loveless		After all that, you missed.
gordon		Not exactly.
west		Better than a fountain pen, don't you think.  By the way, your chivalry's about to be tested.
president grant		 We'll be joining them in a moment if you can't stop that thing!
president grant		Let's see how clever you really are...
west		For almost four long years I've been trackin' the animal responsible for the Massacre at New Liberty. And I hear that's you...
loveless		Please, West... show a little mercy to a poor defenseless cripple...
west		 Now, now, Doctor... let's not cloud this otherwise sunny day with that poor-ol'-me-cripple-talk. Just buck up and say to yourself, 'I am indefatigably hard-pumpin' and steely!'
loveless		After I kill ya, I swear I'm gonna boil you down to axle grease!
west		Now that's the ol' doctor I know!
loveless		Well, I'll be a monkey's uncle. How did we arrive in this dark situation?
west		I don't know.    Guess I'm stumped!
loveless		And I'm so cotton-pickin' afraid of heights. They just give me the spooks!
west		Ah, don't be afraid, Loveless. With this being the last leg of our journey and all, you should soak in the view, you're really missing something.
loveless		Mister West, I'm gonna cut this conversation short...
west		Good one, Loveless.   I didn't think of that one.
loveless		 Mister West!!! I am faced with a difficult decision here. On one hand, there is the overwhelming love that I have for myself, and on the other, the raw, seething hatred I have for you! Now, I could kill you very easily, just by pulling this lever...
loveless		But, of course, I would die along with you. I guess the only thing that I can take comfort in is the hope that you would hit those rocks a second before me and I could enjoy immeasurable bliss before I vanish.  What to do, what to do...
west		Allow me to make that decision easy on you, Loveless. Because I want to see you dead a hell of a lot more than I want to live.
loveless		Why is it that I have a sneaking suspicion, that although you are as black as the night on the outside... inside, you are yellow?!
loveless		You don't have it in you, do you... boy?!
west		You were right. Let's cut this conversation short!
loveless		Weeeeeeeeeest!!!!
west		 Now that looked like it hurt.
president grant		Gentlemen, I now strongly believe the United States is going to be truly united. Not because of this railroad... but because of you.
president grant		I've signed into law the creation of an agency whose sole duty is to protect the President and the country from lunatics like Loveless.  Welcome to the Secret Service,
gordon		Uh, just out of curiosity, sir... who's Agent No. 1?
president grant		I don't think that matters very much, do you? Gordon? Besides, you'll have plenty of time to discuss it on your new assignment.  See you back in Washington.
gordon		But, sir... what about our train?
president grant		 Well, I'm taking it of course. Hell, you let Loveless blow up mine.
west		Rita!   You look great.
gordon		Ravishing, a vision.
rita		I just wanted to thank you for everything you've done for me... before I went back home to Texas.
west		Texas? Why're you going back there? Why don't you come with me back to Washington?
gordon		Or better still, come with me to Washington. I could introduce you to people I still know in the theater...
west		She's not really an entertainer, remember?
rita		 I can't go with either of you.
rita		It's not that you both don't have your attributes.  And you're both so brave. But... I'm afraid I haven't been completely honest with you.
rita		Professor Escobar's not my father. He's my husband.
west		Rita... why didn't you just tell us that in the first place?
rita		Well, I was going to... but would you have really brought me along if I said I was married? Honestly.
rita		I didn't think so.
rita		At least you still have each other.
west		Besides... there's a lot of other women in the world.
gordon		That's easy for you to say. She didn't walk off with your best dress.
****Dialogues from script :Willow.txt****

willow		 "WILLOW"
druid		Is it a girl?
ethna		It is a girl.
druid		Show me its arm.
druid		It's true then.  I must tell Queen Bavmorda.
mother		Ethna, please.  Help me.  They're going to kill my baby.
ethna		They'll kill you.
mother		Please save my baby.
ethna		Pretend this is the child.
mother		Thank you, Ethna.  Thank you.
bavmorda		We will start the ritual at dusk. You're certain this is the one?
druid		It bears the markings.
bavmorda		I must see for myself!  Just as the omen foretold!
bavmorda		So.  You *were* the one.
mother		Yes.  But nothing you can do will stop the prophecy.
bavmorda		This child will have no power over me....
bavmorda		 Where's the baby!
guard		The midwife!
bavmorda		Find that baby!  Use the dogs! Sorsha!
bavmorda		Kill her.
death dog		Bordak!
midwife		I don't have her!  No!  No!
ranon		Dada!  We found something in the river!
willow		I can't run off and play with you now.  I've got work to do.
willow		Back!  Don't go near it.  We don't know where it's been.  It could be diseased.
mims		It's a baby!
ranon		It's not a Nelwyn baby.
willow		No, it's too big to be a Nelwyn baby.  It looks like a daikini...
mims		Ooh, it's so cute...
willow		Mims!  Get back here!  It might bite you.
ranon		Can't we keep it, Dada?
willow		Absolutely not.
burglekutt		Ufgood!  Willow Ufgood!
willow		Shhh, shhh!  It's the Prefect -- that's all I need.  Mims, Ranon, keep this thing hidden...
kiaya		Mr. Burglekutt!  He hasn't done anything wrong!
burglekutt		Ufgood!  What do you think you're doing!  I tell the planting seeds in this village.
kiaya		I told him we didn't steal it, Wil- low.
burglekutt		You haven't paid your debts.  Where did you get these seeds?
willow		In the forest.  My family's been gathering them since last fall. There's no law against that, Bur- glekutt.
kiaya		Willow!  You left the children alone by the river??
burglekutt		Too late, Ufgood.  You'll never get your planting done before the rains start.  You're gonna lose this land.
willow		Absolutely, under no condition, is anyone in this family going to fall in love with that baby.
willow		Kiaya!  We can't keep that baby. Mims, Ranon.  Hey!  I will not be ignored!
willow		This is bad.  If we're caught with that little daikini it'll be the end of us.  Careful, Ranon, I need that for the festival.  Kiaya, what are we going to do?
kiaya		We're gonna give this baby a bath.
willow		Burglekutt's right.  There's not enough time to finish plowing. We'll lose everything and I'll end up working in the mines.
kiaya		Willow, do you think we should take her to the Village Council?
willow		No, no!  They'll think it's a bad omen.  There'll be a flood or a drought or a plague and everybody'll blame me for it!
ranon		Look.  What's that?
willow		I don't know.  This is trouble. I'll talk to the High Aldwin about it tomorrow at the Festival.
willow		And now!  For our final amazing bit of magic, I will make an entire pig completely disappear!
crowd		Aaww!  Booo!  Sssss!
willow		Meegosh, I'm in trouble.
meegosh		Hey, it wasn't that bad.  You need a better pig, that's all.
meegosh		Now Burglekutt's got you in the squeeze.  Soon you'll be down in the mines like me.
willow		Mining.  I hate closed-in spaces. That's the last thing I'd ever do.  I gotta get my crop planted.
meegosh		You know I'll help you as much as I can, Willow.
mims		Dada, can we get treacle candy? Can we, can we?  Please?
willow		 Meegosh, can you watch the chil- dren?  I gotta talk to the High Aldwin.
meegosh		 The High Aldwin??  Why?
willow		Sir!  I have to talk to you.
high aldwin		Not today, Willow.
willow		It's a matter of great importance to me!
high aldwin		Intuition, Willow -- remember?  I know you're eager to be my appren- tice, Willow.  But today is the spring festival.
burglekutt		Apprentice?  To the High Aldwin!! Willow Ufgood???
death dog		Bordak!  Bordak!
meegosh		What was it looking for?
a villager		It said "bordak"!  What does it mean?
councilman		 Baby!  It means baby!  It was look- ing for somebody's baby!
mims		Mommy?
willow		Kiaya!  Kiaya!
willow		We can't keep this baby, Kiaya.  We must take her to the Council.
burglekutt		An evil beast from the outer world has invaded our peaceful village, looking for a baby!
a villager		It's a sign!  An omen!
another villager		Our crops will die!
burglekutt		Silence!  One beast we can kill. But there may be more!  And they won't give up their search till they've found what they're looking for!
meegosh		Whose baby is it!
other villagers		Who's to blame for this!
high aldwin		Willow Ufgood!  Come before me!
high aldwin		Earlier today you tried to tell me something, Willow.
willow		 My family found this baby in the river, High Aldwin.
high aldwin		A daikini child...  ...of some importance, I feel...
burglekutt		That's what the beasts want!  Give it back!
willow		They'll kill her!  We can't let this baby die!
burglekutt		What do we care!
high aldwin		...importance...yes...this child is special...
councilman		What should we do?
high aldwin		This child must be taken beyond the boundaries of our village.  All the way to the daikini crossroads.
a villager		Who will do that?
several villagers		Vohnkar!  Vohnkar!
high aldwin		The outer world is dangerous and corrupt, Vohnkar.  And this baby is hunted by blood-hungry beasts.  Are you willing to sacrifice your life?
vohnkar		If I go, who'll defend you if other beasts attack?
burglekutt		He's right!  It seems only fair that the man to take this baby to the crossroads...  ...out of the river!
willow		I can't do it!  I haven't put my crop in!
a councilman		You caused this trouble.  You found the baby...you get rid of it!
burglekutt		I nominate Willow Ufgood!
high aldwin		I will consult the bones!
high aldwin		The bones tell me nothing.  But I must make a decision.  Is there love in your heart for this child?
willow		Yes.
high aldwin		The bones have spoken!  Willow? The security of this village depends on you!
mims		Dada?
mims		Watch out for brownies, Dada.
willow		I will, Mims.  Goodnight.
ranon		Dada, what's a daikini?
willow		Daikinis are giant people who live far far away.
ranon		Are you scared?
ranon		I could be you rguard!  I could carry your spear!
willow		 What a great son you are, Ranon.  I wish I could take you with me.  Now go to sleep...
high aldwin		Now, you know where you're going?  Down there, through those trees, follow the river.  You'll know the crossroads by a big daikini struc- ture.  Willow, this is serious business.  Don't waste any time, the outer world is no place for a Nelwyn.  Give the baby to the first daikini you see, then hurry home as fast as you can.
willow		If I'm not strong enough to be your apprentice, how can I do this?
high aldwin		You're strong enough.  But you're going to need courage, Willow.
willow		I don't want courage.  I don't want to be a warrior.  All I've ever wanted was to do magic, real magic, like you!
high aldwin		Real magic, Willow, is simply the art of controlling the reality of others.  You lack faith in your- self.  You must learn to trust your intuition.
high aldwin		Go in the direction the bird is flying.
willow		 Oh, if I could do that I'd--I'd turn Burglekutt into a toad!
high aldwin		Waste magic on revenge?  You have much to learn, Willow...
kiaya		Willow, we've never been apart.  I miss you already.  Take this.  It will bring you luck.
willow		You cut your hair, Kiaya?
kiaya		Willow!!
lieutenant		We've patrolled the hills.  This is where they killed the nursemaid.
sorsha		She must have done something with the child.  Widen the search!
lieutenant		Get away from there!
willow		I hate this.  Where am I?  I should stick you in a tree and go back home.  I'm sorry.  I didn't mean that.
willow		That's it.  The crossroads...
willow		I hate this.
willow		I hate this.
willow		I really hate this.
madmartigan		Hey, Peck...get me some water...or you'll diiiiie...!
willow		I will--I'll getcha water--getcha lotsa water--anything you say--!
madmartigan		Peck!
madmartigan		You're a weasely little Peck! Gimme some water!
willow		I'm not coming near you!
madmartigan		Please?  I'm dyin' of thirst in here.
willow		Good.  How long will it take?
madmartigan		Don't make me angry, Peck.
willow		You be careful.  I'm a powerful sorcerer.  I could turn you into a toad just like that.
madmartigan		Miserable Pecks.
madmartigan		That's more like it.
willow		Do any other daikinis ever come by here?
madmartigan		Why.
willow		I have to give this baby to some- body.
madmartigan		I'm somebody.  Lemme out and I'll take care of your baby.
willow		No.  Somebdoy put you in there for a reason.  I'll wait for somebody else.
willow		Hey!  Somebody's coming!
madmartigan		Peck!  Quick!  Douse the fire!
madmartigan		No, you fool!  Put it out I say! Out!
madmartigan		No!!
pict		Whose fire!
madmartigan		No!  Help!  Stop!
pict		Where are they?  Where did they go?
madmartigan		 Thanks for your help, Peck.
willow		Are you okay?
madmartigan		As if you care.  I saved your life, Peck.  Those guys woulda killed us!  You wanna give your baby to them?? They eat babies!
willow		I don't know.
madmartigan		The world's gone insane.  Good men locked in cages, criminals running free.  It doesn't pay to be honest, Peck.
willow		Don't call me a Peck.  My name is Willow.
madmartigan		Hello, Willow.  I'm Madmartigan.
madmartigan		You a woodcutter?
willow		Farmer.
madmartigan		Farmer!  I knew it!  You're a vic- tim, Willow.  Yep, you and me: victims of a rotten, corrupt, cor- rupt, rotten world.
madmartigan		Listen, Willow my friend.  I'm really a good man.  Give me my freedom, and I'll look after that baby for you.  Trust me.
madmartigan		That's it--good--good--like that, yes, good, good, the chain--that's it, come on--come on--!
willow		Nooo, I don't think I should.
madmartigan		Peck!!  Stupid Peck!  I'll kill ya! Let me out!
madmartigan		Morning, Willow.
madmartigan		Sorry I yelled at you.  I've been in this cage toooo long.  Can't think straight anymore.  Owww...!
willow		You all right?
madmartigan		These burns.  My arms.  Ouch...
willow		See if this helps.
madmartigan		Aaaaaahhhh.  Better.  Here, I made something for the baby.
willow		What's inside?
madmartigan		A tooth.  I'm strving.  I got no used for it.
willow		Stop!  Wait!
madmartigan		 Smells like a battle.
willow		Are you a warrior?
madmartigan		The greatest swordsman that ever lived.
willow		What's that?  I hear something!
madmartigan		You hear trouble.
willow		What is it?
madmartigan		A hundred horses...five or six wagons...  and about six thousand fools.
willow		Sir?  Sir!
officer		Out of the way!
airk		Push 'em harder!  No rest at mid- day!  We need to make ten more leagues by dark!
willow		Sir!  Sir!  I have this baby.  We found her in our village.  Will you take her...?
airk		We're going into battle, little one.  Find a woman to take care of it.
madmartigan		He thought you were a woman, Airk!
airk		Madmartigan!  What did you do this time?
madmartigan		Nothing you wouldn't have done it my place!
airk		I always knew you'd end up in a crow's cage.
madmartigan		Least I'm not down there herding sheep!
airk		You're lucky somebody got to you first, Madmartigan!  I'd've killed you myself after that stunt at Land's End!
madmartigan		Airk!  Come on, Airk.  Lemme outa here.
airk		 Hey, remember?  You don't need my help, Madmartigan.  Little rabbit trap like this?  Come on!  I could open it for you, but I wouldn't wanna insult you!
madmartigan		Gimme a sword, Airk.  I'll win your war for you.
airk		You're nothing but trouble, Madmar- tigan.  And I got plenty of that. Stay in your coffin and rot!
madmartigan		I'll be around long after you're dead, Airk!  You slime!  When I get outa here I'll cut your head off and stick it on a pig-pole!
willow		Friend of yours?
madmartigan		Hello, little baby...
madmartigan		Whatcha thinkin' about, Willow?
willow		I hate this.
madmartigan		Nobody's gonna take your baby. Know why?  Nobody cares...  You wanna go back to your farm. You wanna go back to your family. I could take care of that baby. I'll look after her like she was me own.
willow		You don't know anything about ba- bies.
madmartigan		Ahhh!  But I know a lot of women who do.  Why, if I had somebody in my life--a little daughter for instance--I'd have a reason to live...
madmartigan		Willow.  You can't let me die here. Not when I wanna help you.
willow		You gotta promise to feed her.
madmartigan		I will.
willow		Fresh goat's milk.
madmartigan		Absolutely!
willow		And give her a bath everyday, and don't let her get cold.  And keep her diaper changed.
madmartigan		Of course!  I promise!
madmartigan		Come to Daddy, little darlin'.  I think she likes me!
willow		Here are her diaper rags.  And this is her milk bladder.  And when she cries--she's either hungry or she's tired--rock her on your left shoulder.  She likes that.
madmartigan		Don't worry, Willow.  She's in good hands.  You haven't made a mistake.
willow		Bye.
willow		 Please take good care of her.
madmartigan		You've done a great job.  Now you go back to your family and get your crop in.
willow		Look, it's Willow Ufgood!  He's come home!  Welcome back, Willow! He deserves a medal:  he's quite mystical.  For honor, for bravery, for his intuitive powers...  ...let's make him Apprentice Aldwin.  Better still:  High Aldwin!  Make way!  It's Willow Uf- good, High Aldwin of---
willow		Come back here, you!  That's my baby!!
willow		Oh no, it's a trap!
willow		Oh noooooo!!
willow		 Where am I?  Where's the baby?
franjean		I am Franjean, king of the world.
willow		That baby's my responsibility!
franjean		I don't care.  We paid for her.  Go back to sleep, monsieur...
willow		Yeow!  Madmartigan...I never should've trusted you...
teemo		Tongue.
willow		Who are you?
rool		Quiet, you fool!
teemo		 We are emissaries of her majesty, Queen Cherlindrea, of the land of Coshairm.
willow		Queen Cherlindrea?
teemo		She requests the presence of your- self and the young princess.
willow		Who??
teemo		You're the guardian, aren't you?
rool		Quit yakking, Teemo.  We gotta get outa here!
teemo		Elves!  They're always tormenting babies.  They make them cry and take their tears.
rool		Somebody has to do it.
willow		Why??
rool		How else they gonna make dew drops?
willow		I'm getting her out of there!
teemo		No!  You let us handle this.  Come along, Rool!
teemo		Watch this.  Right between the eyes.
rool		 He never misses.
teemo		Ooops.  Was that right?  That wasn't right.
willow		I can't go out there with the baby!
willow		Ohhh, I hate this.
teemo		Take your time.  Don't worry about the elves.  They won't come out here.
willow		Why not?
rool		Because of the trolls.
willow		Trolls?
teemo		Relax.  They only come out at night.
willow		This is not going well.
teemo		Hurry!  Queen Cherlindrea will know what to do.
teemo		Come on.  This is a privilege.  No- body ever gets called before Her Majesty.
rool		Stand up!  It's the queen!
cherlindrea		Willow Ufgood.
willow		 Yes...?
cherlindrea		I hope you are comfortable here, inside my kingdom...
teemo		Talk!  Say something!
willow		I can't see anything--she's too bright!
cherlindrea		I'm sorry...
cherlindrea		Broke-heart of nightingale for our honored guest.
cherlindrea		It is Elora Danan!  The prophecy has come true.
willow		You mean, you know who this baby belongs to?
cherlindrea		She belongs to all of us.  She is the future queen and ruler of all kingdoms on earth.
willow		What a relief.  Now I can go home.
cherlindrea		No, Willow.  Your journey has just begun.  It has been foretold that this child shall bring about the downfall of Queen Bavmorda, whose evil powers have darkened our world.  Upon you depends this princess's life.
willow		Me?
cherlindrea		You are the guardian, Willow.  You must take her to Tir Asleen.
willow		What is Tir Asleen?
cherlindrea		It is a distant castle, where a great king and queen will look after Elora Danan and keep her safe until she is old enough to rule.
willow		Where is Tir Asleen?  How far is it?
cherlindrea		The way has been lost in time. But there is one person, a druid sor- ceress, who might guide you there. She was exiled by Queen Bavmorda many years ago.  Her name is Fin Raziel.
willow		You need a warrior for this job. I'm nobody.
cherlindrea		You are very important, Willow.
willow		No I'm not.  Have you really looked at me?  I'm short!  Even for a Nelwyn!
willow		 Why can't you do it?  You have mag- ical powers.
cherlindrea		My prsence cannot extend beyond this forest.  But I can give you these...
cherlindrea		They will protect you.  Use them wisely.
willow		They look like acorns.
cherlindrea		Anything you hurl them at will turn to stone.
willow		They're magic?  Are you serious?
cherlindrea		 I am very serious, Willow.  There is no time to lose.
willow		But I've got a family to think about!  They need me!
willow		Hello...?
cherlindrea		Bavmord'a powers are growing like an evil plague.  Soon she will con- trol the lives of you children, your wife, your village...everyone.
cherlindrea		The choice is yours.
willow		I'll do it.  Yes, I will, I'll do it!
willow		But I only have one shoe.
willow		Wait till I tell my children. Stuff like this never happens in my village.
teemo		Hey, careful there!
willow		How do these work I wonder?  I got- ta save one to show the High Aldwin.
rool		Look!  Death below!
willow		Daikinis...
horsemen		Hyaaaaahh!!
willow		Let's get out of here.  Shhh, don't cry, Elora.  Things can't get any worse than this...
teemo		I'm not going in there.
rool		Me neither!
willow		Don't worry--I'm a sorcerer.  What could possibly happen?
willow		Could you spare some milk for this poor hungry baby?
barmaid		Get outa here, Peck!
patrons		A Peck!  Get him out!  Beat it, Peck!
willow		I could use your help, boys.
teemo's voice		Willow?
willow		This is not fun.
willow		Woah!
wench		Hurry!  Hurry!
willow		You!!
madmartigan		Where the hell did you come from?
willow		I trusted you...
rool		Who's he?
madmartigan		You're crawling with rodents.
llug		Where is he!!
wench		There's nobody here except me and my, um, cousin.
madmartigan		How do you do.
willow		Hey!  Give me that baby!
madmartigan		 These Pecks make terrible nurse- maids.
willow		Nursemaid?!
madmartigan		 They get too excited.
llug		Wanna breeeeeeed?
willow		 Time to change her diaper.
madmartigan		Time to leave.
sorsha		You!  Are you the mother of that child?
madmartigan		No.  I mean yes.
sorsha		Let me see it.
madmartigan		 I can't.
sorsha		Let me see it.
willow		No!  You can't!
madmartigan		 I can't.
sorsha		Why not?
madmartigan		 Why not?
willow		Because she's sick.
madmartigan		 Because she's sick.
sorsha		Give it to me!
madmartigan		 Gawd...you're...beautiful...
sorsha		You're not a woman.
llug		Not a woman??!!
sorsha		After them!!
willow		Madmartigan!  Wait!
willow		We could've been killed, Madmarti- gan!
willow		Heeyah!  Heeyah!
willow		Oh no!
death		Bordak!!
death		Bordak!!
willow		Woah...woah...!
madmartigan		That girl is a vision.
willow		Where's the baby??
madmartigan		I thought you had her!
madmartigan		Now Willow, I know you're gonna blame me for this but it wasn't my fault...!
willow		Elora Danan!
madmartigan		When I left the crossroads, I got ambushed by an elf!
willow		Madmartigan!  You saved her life!
madmartigan		I did?
madmartigan		I mean, of course I saved her life. She's almost my daughter, isn't she?
willow		Let's get out of here before they come back.
teemo		Northeast is that way.  We've come west and south.  I think.
rool		Watch it!  You're gonna set us on fire.
madmartigan		Not a bad idea.
madmartigan		So you're on your way to Tir Asleen, huh?  I hate to tell you this, Willow, but Tir Asleen dosn't exist.
willow		Yes it does.  The Fairy Queen told me.
madmartigan		The Fairy Queen?  And the baby here's a princess?  And these two rodents are your guides?
madmartigan		Yeah well...in the morning I think I'll be on my way.
willow		Madmartigan, I need your help.
madmartigan		My help?  A great magician like you?  You don't need any help.
willow		But you're a great swordsman!
willow		 You're not a warrior, Madmartigan! A warrior wouldn't lie there and do nothing!
willow		We're in trouble!  You've seen the big army that's after us!  You're a fake!  You're a bum!  You're a-- you're a coward!!
madmartigan		What's with you, Peck?
willow		I miss my wife!  I miss my chil- dren!  My boy Ranon!  He's growing up so fast, he even helps me on the farm now!  And little Mims!  If you ever saw her sweet little face you'd *melt* Madmartigan, you'd *melt*!  Or maybe you wouldn't.  You don't know anything about love.  You don't know anything about any- thing...
madmartigan		I was in love once, Willow.  She had a hold on my heart.  I could barely function.  I *was* a great swordsman!  I was knighted!  I could have been king!
willow		You?
madmartigan		Yeah me.  King!  But she betrayed me.  She robbed me of my dream.
madmartigan		I'll never fall in love again...
willow		Madmartigan!  Madmartigan!
madmartigan		Relax, Willow.  We're having fun.
rool		That's it!  The sorceress lives there!
teemo		Are you sure?
rool		 Yes!  Raziel!  She lives out on that island!
teemo		That tree dosn't look like gold to me.
madmartigan		Gold!!
teemo		Its branches are supposed to be made of gold, solid gold.
willow		How are we going to get out there?
madmartigan		We'll find a way, Willow.  Look over there--that looks like a village--maybe they've got a boat. Come on, what are you waiting for?
madmartigan		Give me a hand here, Peck!
boy		What are you doing?
madmartigan		It's nothing to do with you.
willow		We need to get out to that island.
boy		The island is cursed.
willow		We've traveled a long way.  We're looking for Fin Raziel.
teemo		The sorceress.
boy		She's there.  But you can't go there.  The island is cursed.
madmartigan		 Yeah?  Who cursed it?
boy		Queen Bavmorda.  Her powers govern the elements.
madmartigan		Ahh, he's trying to protect the gold.  Come on, Willow.  Jump in.
willow		What would the Fairy Queen say?
rool		She's not here.
teemo		 Obviously.
willow		Without Raziel we'll never find Tir Asleen.  We'd better go.
willow		Raziel?  Hello?  Fin Raziel?
raziel		Get away!  Get away!
raziel		You'll die!  You'll die!
raziel		Who are you!  Who are you!
willow		I'm Willow Ufgood.  I'm here to find Fin Raziel.
raziel		That's me!  Raziel!  Raziel!
willow		This can't be right.  This isn't a sorceress.  This is some kind of animal.
teemo		Queen Bavmorda transformed her.
raziel		What do you want!
willow		We need your help.  To take this baby to Tir Asleen.  She's a prin- cess.
raziel		Elora Danan!
madmartigan		Rool!  Teemo!  You were right! This whole tree is made of gold!!
raziel		Fools!  You should never have come to this place!  We're all going to die!
raziel		We've got to get off this island right now.  Hurry!  The boat!  It's our only chance!
willow		Madmartigan!
madmartigan		Wait!  Gold!  Gold!
willow		Help, Madmartigan!  The oar!
madmartigan		My gold!
raziel		Kill him!
willow		No!
raziel		Kill him!
madmartigan		No!!  Help!!  Willow!!!
madmartigan		Willow...you...you got...magic...! Wait...we could team up...!
raziel		Flee!  Flee!
sorsha		Raziel.  Did you think my mother would allow you to escape?
sorsha		This is what we're looking for.  It bears the markings.
madmartigan		Don't worry, Willow.  If there's one thing I'm good at, it's charm- ing a woman...
madmartigan		So.  Couldn't live without me, huh?
sorsha		Lose your skirt?  How embarassing.
madmartigan		Still got what counts.
sorsha		Not for long.
sorsha		We'll join the column.  Bring them with us.
teemo		We gotta follow them.
rool		Us??  We'll never catch them.  Any- way, we're all done, Teemo.  Let's go home.
teemo		Get back here, Rool!
rool		Ouch!  Let go of me!
willow		I can't go on...
madmartigan		Willow, why don't you use your mag- ic to get us out of here?
raziel		He's no magician.
madmartigan		He turned that monster into stone!
raziel		Did *you* give that acorn its power?
willow		No.
raziel		A magician *makes* magic.  Any fool can use it.
madmartigan		Then you get us out of here.
raziel		I will!  But I need help!
willow		I'll help you...!
madmartigan		I won't.
raziel		You must learn magic.
willow		That's all I ever wanted!
raziel		Then I will teach you.
madmartigan		Nice horse...nice hair...real nice hair...I'd say you've got the most beautiful hair I've ever--
sorsha		Wolff wants to boil you in oil.
sorsha		Don't tempt me.
willow		If you rest the baby on your shoulder, she'll stop crying.
sorsha		Shut up.
madmartigan		Mmmm, I love the smell of a woman.
sorsha		 My step-father's going to tear you apart.
madmartigan		I'm torn apart already.  I mean it! Under all that armor is a beautiful--
madmartigan		Who is that girl, anyway?
raziel		Sorsha, Queen Bavmorda's daughter.
madmartigan		Forget that one, Madmartigan.
raziel		Willow.  To learn magic, first you must make your own philosopher's stone!
willow		What do I need for that?
raziel		We must start with feathers, dung, and a lock of your hair.
madmartigan		Now that's a woman...!
raziel		Keep working at it.  Forget all you know, or think you know.  A magician's power depends on disord- er of the mind.
madmartigan		You got that one covered.
willow		I hope she's all right.  How much more do I have to do of this?
raziel		Till it's in a powder.  The energy exits within you...
willow		 I know, and the magician's goal is to find his true self.  But what's this got to do with it?
raziel		As below, so above.  You hold the univers, Willow, in your hand.
madmartigan		I'm beginning to think you two *deserve* to be locked up.
willow		The universe is a living creature, like you and me, Madmartigan.
madmartigan		We're a tiny version of all that?
raziel		As above, so below.
willow		I'm all finished.  Now what?
raziel		Burn it to a fine ash.
willow		How am I gonna do that?
raziel		Patience.  Concentrate.  You will find a way.
willow		What's going on?
madmartigan		Hurt him and you'll answer to me!
sorsha		This baby won't do what I say.  You seem to know what to do.  Here! Make it shut up.
willow		She needs to be changed.
sorsha		I changed her already!
willow		She needs to be changed again. Sorsha crosses her arms in a hugg and watches as Willow changes the baby.  Soon the baby stops crying.  Re- lieved yet still anxious, Sorsha paces to a mirror. Willow rocks the baby gently, absently looking at the fire.  Then his eyes focus on the fire.
sorsha		Who is that horrible friend of yours?
willow		 Madmartigan.
sorsha		Who is he?
willow		I don't know much about him.
sorsha		He's very bold.  Do you really think my hair is beautiful?
willow		Uh, yes.  It's very nice hair.
willow		She's hungry.
sorsha		I know she's hungry.  I tried to feed her but she wouldn't eat a thing.  I'm not a wet nurse.
willow		Here.  Hold her.
sorsha		I tried everything.  A spoon.  I poured milk into her mouth, she just spat it out.  I don't know what to do, I'm not a mother.
willow		Sometimes she likes it heated.
willow		She's a good baby.
willow		I did it!  I got the ashes!
raziel		Good!  The first step is complete.
madmartigan		Did she ask about me?
willow		Who?
madmartigan		Come on, Peck, don't give me a hard time.  You were in her ten all night.  Did she say anything?
willow		She said lots of thing.s
madmartigan		Willow!
willow		She asked about you, Madmartigan.
madmartigan		Well what did she say?
sorsha		Here.  You're going to need these where we're going.
madmartigan		She's in love.
willow		You're crazy.  I think you're in love.
raziel		We don't have much time left!  Go on!  Go on!
willow		I must concetrate my imagination...to creat a new...reality!
raziel		What's the magician's weapon?
willow		The limitless power of...
raziel		Your will!  Your will!  What else could it be?
willow		 I can't remember all these things. What am I learning?
raziel		The art of transformation!
willow		 But what am I gonna transform??
raziel		Me!
willow		You?
madmartigan		What are you gonna become, Raziel? Queen of the rodents?
sorsha		The baby's cold.  Take her.
raziel		You remind me of your father, Sor- sha.
sorsha		My father was a weakling.
raziel		He was a great king.  Not like your step-father, not like your mother.  He ruled Tir Asleen with kindness, and a generous heart.
sorsha		My mother calls that weakness.
madmartigan		What do *you* call it?
sorsha		I do what I'm told.
madmartigan		Too bad you're not more like your father.
sorsha		Be careful.
kael		Don't tell me what to do.
madmartigan		We gotta get the baby out of here.
raziel		Tonight!  Complete the philosopher's stone!  I must be turned back!
willow		I'll do it, Raziel...
raziel		Let it settle.  Carefully, slowly. Concentration and will.  Now pour the water off.
willow		Oooh, this smells terrible.
raziel		That's the life spark.  Exxence of magic and sorcery!
willow		Ouch!!
raziel		Shhhhh!
willow		What'd you bit me for!!
raziel		We need blood.  To nourish the stone.  charge the stone with ener- gy.
raziel		The components of the stone are fusing...
raziel		Again:  what is the magician's weapon?
willow		His will.
raziel		Now use it.
willow		I just wanted to test it first.
raziel		No!  Change me back into a sor- ceress, Willow.
willow		Avaggdu, supriom, luwatha...
willow		What did I do?
madmartigan		Not bad, Peck.  I'm impressed.  You busted the lock.
willow		Madmartigan.  Let's go.  Let's get Eloran Danan.
madmartigan		Let's get Elora Danan.
raziel		Wait!  What about me!
madmartigan		You're a magician, Willow.  But I'm a thief.  Wait here.  I'll get the baby.
raziel		I'm supposed to be a beautiful wo= man.
willow		 Come on, Madmartigan...!
willow		What are you doing?  Get out of there...!
madmartigan		I love you.
sorsha		One move, and you really will be a woman.
sorsha		You're a fool.  Now put her back.
madmartigan		I'm not going to let this baby die.
sorsha		Don't make me kill you.
madmartigan		I believe you would...
sorsha		Why did you say that?
madmartigan		Say what?
sorsha		I love you.
madmartigan		Because it's true.
sorsha		I don't believe you.
madmartigan		I wish it weren't true.  I swore I'd never let this happen.  I hate you.  I hate your beauty, I hate your innocence, I hate the feelings you've awakened in me.
madmartigan		I'm in love with you, Sorsha.  I don't want to be, but a power has enchanted me and I stand helpless against it.  It's torture.  Battle- field or prison cell was never half as cruel.
madmartigan		I want you and I can't have you so I want you all the more.  If this were another time and another place I'd--
sorsha		You'd what?
kael		What's going on here!!
sorsha		Deceiver!!
madmartigan		Whoops!
madmartigan		Willow!  Jump on the shiled!
kael		Bowmen!  Horses!  After them!
madmartigan		Sorsha!  I didn't betray you.  I love you!
kael		Kill them!!
willow		Nooo!!!
madmartigan		Willow!  Willow!  Are you all right?
villager		King Kael!
another villager		Nockmaar troops!
madmartigan		 Help us.
airk		Madmartigan.  Settled down with a family huh?
madmartigan		You left me to die, friend.
airk		You managed alright.
madmartigan		Is this what's left of your army?
officer		Keep that baby quiet.
kael		Where is it!  Tell us or we'll burn your village!  Sorsha!
officer		Kill her.
madmartigan		You'll draw the others.
airk		It's you they're after, Madmarti- gan.  What did you do this time?
madmartigan		They're not after me.  They want the baby.
airk		Who is this baby?
willow		The princess, Elora Danan.
people		The prophecy has come true.
airk		Give her to us.  We'll protect her.
raziel		Not safe!  Not safe!
willow		We're taking her to Tir Asleen. She'll be safe there from Bavmorda's powers.
airk		Tir Asleen is a myth.  It doesn't exist.
raziel		It does!  It does!  I will show you!
airk		You gonna be a hero, Madmartigan? I've lost half my men fighting Kael, and Bavmorda, and the Nock- maar army.  Now you and this Peck, and that magpie up in the rafters, are gonna take 'em on alone?
madmartigan		 Then come with us.
airk		The war is here!  In towns and vil- lages like this!
airk		You're chasing a dream.
madmartigan		Just get me some horses.
madmartigan		Once again, Airk, we say goodbye.
airk		One day one of us willl stand on the other's grave.
raziel		Nockmaar!  Nockmaar!
raziel		This way!  The cave!
willow		Madmartigan!  I can't stand being in closed-in places.
madmartigan		Want me to carry Elora?
willow		I'm used to her.  How's she doing?
madmartigan		She's doing a lot better than we are, Peck.
madmartigan		Willow...this may be a bad time to ask this question but...what if Raziel's wrong?
willow		She can't be wrong.  She's a very very very powerful sorceress.
madmartigan		She's a bird, Willow.
willow		That's my fault, not hers.  I've got to keep practicing.  I'm still in the learning stage but magic, Madmartigan, requires concentration and--
madmartigan		Watch it!
willow		Ahhh!
willow		I hate this.
madmartigan		Go, Willow!  Run!  Run!
madmartigan		Willow!  Willow!
kael		Go after them!
madmartigan		Hurry, Willow!  Throw it!
raziel		Look out!
kael		After them!!
raziel		Tir Asleen.
willow		There's nobody here.
raziel		The Knights of the Pacalcade.  The king's bravest warriors.
raziel		Turn them back, Willow!
willow		How??
raziel		Use the philosopher's stone!  Hur- ry!  Invocation!  Release them!
willow		Beings within, beings without! Danu danu walkail funfawtha!
willow		I did it!  Madmartigan!  Come here! Look!  You gotta see this!  I did it!
raziel		More!  More!
kael		Assault!  Scale the walls!
willow		Tuatha tuatha danu!
willow		Raziel!  I transformed them all! I'm a magician!
raziel		You didn't transform them, Willow, you released them.  That was noth- ing.  Now change me.
willow		I feel like I could do anything!
knight		It belonged to our king.
willow		Capture the enery...limitless power of the will...avvdachh doth indicht rredd baerkinhaekin!
willow		Raziel?  Is that you?  Oh-oh.  What happened?
raziel		I hate this.
kael		Attack!!
madmartigan		Sorsha.
sorsha		Madmartigan.
madmartigan		Whose side are you on?
sorsha		Yours.
minion		Arrrggghhh!
sorsha		I love you.
kael		Sorsha!!
kael		Bordak!
kael		Kill them both!
kael		Troops!  To Nockmaar!  Ride with me!
willow		I'm sorry.  There were too many of them.
madmartigan		Out for a little ride in the coun- try, Airk?
airk		Thought you might get lonely, Mad- martigan!
madmartigan		Thank you, friend.
airk		Let's go.
madmartigan		Sorsha!  Any way in there?
sorsha		No.  The fortress is protected on all sides.
airk		Make camp!  We'll assault at dawn.
bavmorda		Kael!
kael		Queen Bavmorda.  I have the child.
bavmorda		We must start the ritual!
bavmorda		Who is that?
kael		An army of rebels and traitors.
bavmorda		Where is Sorsha?
kael		She has turned against you.
bavmorda		Purify the altar!  Arrange the im- plements!  I'll deal with Sorsha!
bavmorda		This is not an army!
raziel		Willow!  Get out of here!  Quick! Hide!
raziel		Get down!  The ritual chant! Quick!  Protect yourself!
willow		Why?
raziel		Just do it!
madmartigan		We've come for Elora Danan!  Turn her over to us!
bavmorda		You dare to challenge me?  You are not warriors.  You're pigs!
bavmorda		You're all pigs!
sorsha		Mother!  No!!
bavmorda		You made your decision!
bavmorda		Begin the ritual.  Now!  Light the first candle.
bavmorda		Come, thunder.  Come lightning. Touch this altar with your pwer. Come into my tower...
bavmorda		Dark runes, dark powers!  Blend and bind, bind and blend, Universal night!  And the might of Nockmaar!
raziel		It's over, Willow.  You did well. You protected yourself.
willow		I've come all this way and now Elora Dana's going to die!
raziel		No!  I can still defeat Bavmorda!
willow		She's too powerful, Raziel
raziel		A true magician, Willow, never surrenders.  She is a sorceress--I am a sorceress!  Transform me now and I will destroy her!  Hexagram!
willow		Banish all disturbing forces from this place.  Fire, water, above and below.  Balance.  Balance.  Bal- ance.
raziel		 Don't give up!  Willow!
willow		Raziel!
raziel		We've got a lot of work to do, Wil- low.  Bring in our brave men.
bavmorda		Black fire forever kindled within, Let the second right begin!
airk		Uphill with our rough weapons, we'll never make it!
sorsha		Elora Danan will die!
raziel		By dawn, upon thirteen tolls of the runic drum!
warrior		Bavmorda is too powerful.  We need more forces.  I say we retreat!
raziel		Bavmorda cannot transform you. I've protected this camp with a spell.
madmartigan		Can you use your magic to get our men into the fortress, Raziel?
raziel		Bavmorda has shielded it with a spell of her own.
willow		Wait!!
willow		I have an idea.  Back in my village we catch a lot of hedgehogs.
madmartigan		Willow, this is war, not agricul- ture!
willow		I know, I know!  But this is a way to get into that castle...
airk		It's too much work.
warrior		It can't be done.
sorsha		Kael will never fall for it.
madmartigan		 I don't know, Willow.
willow		Madmartigan, you promised me you'd take care of Elora Danan like your own daughter.  She is all that matters.  Are you going to abandon her?
airk		Come on, Madmartigan.  you gonna listen to a Peck?  You and I are warriors.  You know this plan will never work.
madmartigan		We'll probably die here, Sorsha.
sorsha		I have no family.
raziel		If we do not fight, and the baby dies, all hope for the future is lost.  I shall face the danger alone if I have to.
willow		Me, too.
madmartigan		Time is running out.  We must now decide who's going to leave and who is going to stay...
bavmorda		Ocht veth nockkthirth bordak!
raziel		Time is running out.
willow		Surrender!!
willow		We are all-powerful magicians! Give us the baby or we will destroy you!!
kael		Kill them!
raziel		Patience, Willow.
willow		Courage, Willow.
airk		Let's squah 'em!
sorsha		No, Willow!!
sorsha		I will face my mother alone.
bavmorda		Sorsha!!
sorsha		I won't let you kill her!
bavmorda		You are a weakling.  Like you fa- ther!  Can you not see that I am about to become all-powerful!
sorsha		No!!
bavmorda		Raziel...!!
raziel		The baby will be queen.  It has been foretold, Bavmorda.
bavmorda		My ritual will kill the prophecy! Now the child dies with it, its en- ergy exiled into oblivion!  You see?  I hold the power of the universe!
raziel		Not until your ritual is complete!
bavmorda		And who will stop me?  The elements are slaves to my command!
raziel		There is no one who can match your sorcery.  Except me!
madmartigan		Airk!!
madmartigan		Airk!  Airk!
madmartigan		Madmartigan...you're a brave warrior...a true friend...a good man...
madmartigan		We're gonna win this war, Airk.
bavmorda		As above, so below!  Universe of evil, Raziel!  It conquers even you!
bavmorda		*Stop!  Bring back that child!!!*
bavmorda		Who are you?
willow		I'm Willow Ufgood.  I'm a magician.
willow		I'm a *great* magician.
bavmorda		Is that the extent of your power?
bavmorda		Place it on the altar.
willow		No.  You can't have her.
bavmorda		By ritual, by sorcery, I well draw the lightning and send this child into the destructive realm.
willow		And with my magic I'll send her into the...into the...
bavmorda		You're no magician.
willow		Into the good.
bavmorda		Even I don't have the power to do that.  You're a fraud.
bavmorda		Impossible!  Bordak!  Bordak!
bavmorda		Aaaaahhhh!!!
raziel		Willow...Willow...how...how did you do that?
willow		It was just the old disappearing pig trick.
raziel		Willow Ufgood.  Take this Book of Sorcery.  You are on your way to becoming a great magician.
willow		Your dream has come true, madmarti- gan.
madmartigan		Goodbye, Peck.
willow		Farewell, Elora Danan.
kiaya		Willow!!
willow		Kiaya!!
****Dialogues from script :Win_Win.txt****

abby		Shit.
abby		 Mommy, can we play croquet today?
jackie		He's running.
abby		From what?
mike		OK. OK. Hi there. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 2
jackie		Shit.
mike jackie		Good. It was good. Abby, finish your cereal.
abby		I don't like it.
jackie		You do too, so stop drawing and eat.
mike abby		What brand is this? Daddy, look. It's your team.
mike		That's my team? That's great, honey. Are they winning?
abby		Yeah.
jackie		Maybe you should show the team. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 3 CONTINUED:
abby		Shit.
jackie		Honey, you can't use that word. It's a bad word.
mike		Uh huh. Bye sweetie.
abby mike		Bye daddy. Bye.
jackie		Hey. You OK?
mike		Yeah.
jackie		You sure?
mike		Yeah. I'm good. Why?
jackie		Just checking.
mike		OK. Bye guy's.
abby		Can I have more juice?
jackie		Just a minute. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 4
jackie		Mike?
paul		No. I will today.
jackie		Please do. I don't want it coming down on the house.
mike		Yeah. You're right. I will.
jackie		Mike?
mike		Yeah?
jackie		I love you.
mike		I love you too, sweetie. Bye.
mike		Vig?
voice		Down here.
mike		What's up, Vig?
vigman		Donna's out sick and can't find anything without her. It sucks.
mike		Who was that guy?
vigman		Oh, that sucks more. He's the plumber. I called him to look at that piece of crap of boiler.
mike		Why? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 6 CONTINUED:
vigman		That clanking is driving me nuts. Can't you hear it down in your office?
mike		Yeah. I just figured it's old.
vigman		Well it is but he took one look at it and said we should replace it before it blows.
mike		What?! We just had it fixed three months ago.
vigman		Yeah, he said that job was crap. The guy did crap work. Can you believe that? That little scumbag!
mike vigman		Jesus. All they care about is getting paid. Makes me sick. No one wants to do the work anymore.
mike		How much to fix it, Vig? Did he say?
vigman		Six grand to replace everything.
mike		Holy shit.
vigman		Tell me about it. I gotta be honest, Mike, it's not a good time for me. My business is off and my step son wants to get Lasik.
mike		Really? Isn't he too young?
vigman		I don't really care at this point. If it makes him happy, he can have it. I get nothing from that kid.  Nothing. He has an unnatural attachment to his father.
mike		Right. So what do you want to do?
vigman		Well I was thinking we could leave it for now and just cover the file cabinets in plastic to be safe. How about you?
mike		Yeah. I guess I'm good with that.
vigman		Let's get out of here before it blows. I'll pick some up plastic before practice.
mike		Hey Shelly, How you doing?
shelly		I'm a little hung over and my boyfriend's a moron.
mike		Oh. Sorry to hear that.
shelly		How'd the team do last night?
mike		We lost.
shelly		Bummer. Your noon canceled so you just have a 10:30 and 3pm.
mike		OK. Anything else? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 8 CONTINUED:
shelly		The toilet isn't flushing again. Should I just call someone this time?
mike		No. I'll take a look at it. Who do I have at ten-thirty?
shelly		 Frank.
mike		Great.
mike		And you think your son stole it?
frank		Yeah. I know he did.
mike		Why would he steal your cat, Frank?
frank		He's jealous of her. Very jealous.
mike		I understand but that's my fee for that particular service. Uh huh. Right. Well maybe I can adjust that a little bit.
mike		Well Leo, remember you got lost and the police had to help you a few times. That's why we brought Jolie into help you, right?
leo		So now what happens?
mike		Well if that Judge deems you incapacitated then you will need a guardian. And if we can't find your daughter then the state...
leo		She can't find herself.
mike		OK but if we can't find her then the State will have to become your guardian.
leo		Who's the state?
mike		You know...the state...of New Jersey.
leo		That's crazy. I don't need New Jersey's help. I got Jolie now. And there's no funny business between us so you know.
mike		Right. I'm sure there's not. Let's just first see if we can find your daughter and then we'll go from there. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 10
shelly		Am I still hung over or is that noise getting louder?
mike		You're probably still hung over. What's that?
shelly		Leo's financial statements. He's loaded, huh?
mike		Yes, he is. You find his daughter?
shelly		No. That lady is gone and doesn't want to be found.
mike		Crap.
shelly		Can't the state just leave him in his home? That's what the guy wants.
mike		They could but they never will. It's too much work. They'll probably move him into Oak Knoll. Hand me one of their brochures?
shelly		But he has Jolie now. She can handle it.
mike		No, she can't. His guardian still has to make every single decision. It's the difference between a baby sitter and a parent. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 11 CONTINUED:
shelly		I wish I could do it. I could use an extra 1,500 bucks a month.
shelly		Yeah. It's in his file.  Mike Flaherty's office.
vigman		Whose singlet is this? What did I say about leaving them around?
terry		How's the team doing?
mike		Not good.
terry		What the hell happened? We used to be good.
mike		Yeah, well we're not anymore. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 12 CONTINUED:
terry		Can we walk for a bit?
mike		Yeah.
terry		That sucked. You're running good, buddy. Kicking my ass.
mike		Yeah. I've been getting out here a bit more often.
terry		You gotta be kidding me.
mike		What?
terry		Lori's texting me at seven in the morning to ask me if I want an antique sewing table that we bought together.
mike		Do you?
terry		No. I want my fucking house back!
mike		Is she still with that guy?
terry		You mean my contractor? The guy I hired? Yeah, she is. I can just picture that little scumbag walking around my house wearing his tool belt. Here.
terry mike		Take it! Jesus, Ter!
mike		Don't send it.
terry		Too late. I hate her.
mike		Maybe you should move back into the city? Get a new job. Shake it up a bit.
terry		Nah. Finley called me. He's starting up a new fund out here in May so I'm gonna wait for that.
mike		That guy's starting another fund?
terry		Yeah. He's an animal. He prints money. Come on, let's finish strong.
mike		Hold up!
terry		What?
mike		Just...hold up.
terry		You alright?
mike		No! I'm not having a heart attack! I just...can't breathe...
terry		That could be a heart attack, Mike. You should lie down.
mike terry		Get off me! Just lie down.
mike		No! It's wet. I don't want to lie down.
terry		Who cares? You might be dying. Are you cold? Do you feel cold?
mike		Yeah. I'm lying on the ground.
terry		Look into my eyes, Mike. Look into my eyes. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 15 CONTINUED:
terry		OK dude, how long has that been happening?
mike		Couple of months. The doctor says it's stress.
terry		Seriously? Did he prescribe anything for you?
mike		Yeah. Jogging. Why the hell you think I'm doing this?
terry		Jesus. That scared the shit out of me. What are you so stressed about, Mike?
mike		 I don't know. Work. Money. Everything.
terry		Is it that bad?
mike		Yeah. It is. I don't know how much longer I can keep my practice going.
terry		Really? Holy shit, Mike! What're you gonna do? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 16 CONTINUED:
mike		I have no frickin' idea. I've been trying everything.
terry		Have you told Jackie?
mike		Not yet. I don't want to freak her out.
terry		Good call. So we just need a new strategy, that's all. What about that Judge that's always throwing work your way? Can't she help you out?
mike		Judge Lee, yeah. If it wasn't for her I'd probably be out of business already. I just need more.
terry		Is there anything else you can do for money?
mike		What the hell am I gonna do? Bartend? I'm a lawyer, Ter. I practice law. MIKE  TERRY And it's not like I'm some I know. scumbag. I help old people for Christ sake. No offense but your pal, Finley doesn't give a crap about anything but making money.
terry		Yeah. But that's why he makes it.
mike		No shit, Ter. Thanks for the update.
mike		Hi, honey. I'm still at the office. Yeah. I came back after practice, I'll be home in a bit.  Oh, hey, let me go, Jack. I've been waiting for this call. Bye.
mike		Hey, Leo. Leo hold on!  Can you stop him, please?
judge lee		Any word from his daughter? Mr. Flaherty?
mike		Oh..no, Your Honor. I have the two certified letters returned unclaimed. And there is no phone number for her. We can't find her.
judge lee		And she is the only living family, is that correct?
mike		Yes, your Honor, she is. But Mr. Poplar hasn't seen her for over twenty years.
leo		Who?
mike		Your daughter.
leo		She's late? She's probably at the store buying some crap or something.
mike		OK.
judge lee		OK, then as, Mr. Poplar has been deemed incapacitated by this court, I'm appointing the Office of Public Guardian to serve as the guardian for his person and property. Do you have the order for me to sign, Mr. Thatcher?
thatcher		Yes, I do, Your Honor.
judge lee		Then please approach. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 19 CONTINUED:
mike		Your Honor, if it pleases the Court.
judge lee		Yes, Mr. Flaherty?
mike		I would be willing to serve as Mr. Poplar's guardian.
thatcher		 Really?
mike		Yeah.
thatcher		How long have you known him? Two weeks?
mike		More like five.
thatcher		Really? And now you want to be his guardian?
mike		May I approach, your honor?
judge lee		Council approach.
mike		Well Judge, I think I'd be a better candidate then the state in this case. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 20 CONTINUED:
thatcher		Really?
mike		Yeah, and stop saying really, it's annoying.
thatcher		Your Honor, Mr. Flaherty is Mr. Poplar's court appointed attorney...
judge lee		I know, Stu, I appointed him.
thatcher		Yeah, well that hardly qualifies him to be Leo's Guardian. What's the motivation here?
judge lee		Mike?
mike		Your Honor, Leo told me he wants to live at home. He has the money to do that and I want to make sure that happens. If the State can do that then fine.
thatcher		Counsel knows we can't do that, your Honor.  We're spread too thin for that kind of individual attention. But they have an excellent elder care facility in Mr. Poplar's town. We'll put him there.
mike		Mr. Poplar wants to live at home.
judge malone		 You can do that, Mike?
mike		Yes, I can.  Really.
leo		Did we win?
mike		Yeah. I think so.
leo		Good.
leo		Are we going to the park?
mike		No. We're not, Leo. I'm gonna help you get settled into a new place to live right here in town.
leo		I don't need a new place. I have a house. I'm not fancy that way. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 22 CONTINUED:
mike		I know. But I need you to stay in this new place for a while. It's nice. You'll like it.
leo		Is that what the judge said?
mike		Yeah, that's what he said.
leo		Ah shit.
jackie		Let's go, Mr. Mayor. It's cold and I need to pick up some bagels for your mom's.
mike		OK. OK. I just have to make one stop first.
jackie		Where?
mike		I have to swing by a client's house and shut off the water.
jackie		Why?
mike		Because it's freezing and I don't want his pipes to burst.
jackie		No, I mean why are you doing it?
mike		 What? Oh, because I'm his guardian.
jackie		What? Since when?
mike abby		Just last week. Mommy, I want a bagel.
mike		Jack, he's in Oak Knoll. They do everything. I just have to check in on him from time to time.
jackie		And who pays for that?
mike		He does. It comes out of his estate and he can afford it. Trust me.
jackie		I don't get it. You've never done it before.
mike		No I haven't.
jackie		So why are you doing it now?
mike		It's just...the right thing to do, alright. We couldn't find his daughter and I'm just trying to help the guy. It's really not a big deal.
jackie		Well, it sounds like a big deal. And you should have told me.
abby		What's a big deal?
jackie		Ask your daddy, sweetie. Maybe he'll tell you.
abby		Daddy, what's a big deal?
jackie		Is that his house? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 25 CONTINUED:
mike		Yeah.
jackie		 Who's that?
mike		No idea.
mike		How you doing? Can I help you?
young man		No.
mike		Are you looking for Mr. Poplar?
young man		Yeah.
mike		Well, he doesn't live here anymore.
young man		Where does he live?
mike		You mind telling me why you're looking for him first?
young man		He's my Grandfather. I came to live with him.
jackie		So do you live around here, Kyle?
kyle		No. Ohio.
jackie		Ohio? And where are your parents?
kyle		It's just my mother and me. She's back in Columbus. She couldn't come.
jackie		So how did you get here?
kyle		Bus.
jackie		Really? All by yourself?
kyle		Yeah.
jackie		Wow.
abby		That sounds like a big deal.
mike		Hey, Leo, you have a visitor.
leo		Who? Him? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 27 CONTINUED:
mike		Yeah.
kyle		Hi.
leo		Come on in. I'll turn off the TV.
mike		This is Kyle Timmons, Leo. He's your grandson. He came from Ohio to see you.
leo		I don't have a Grandson.
kyle		Yeah, you do. We just never met.
leo		Are you bringing me home?
mike		Kyle's just here for a visit, Leo.
leo		Oh. You want to watch TV?
kyle		OK.
mike		OK. So I'll come back to pick you up in an hour. You OK?
kyle		Yeah.
mike		You alright, Leo?  OK, see you in a bit. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 28 CONTINUED:
gina		So did you call his mother?
jackie		No. Not yet. Oh and he was smoking too. He's sixteen!
gina		He's probably on drugs.
jackie		I know.
gina		What are you going to do with him?
mike		We're going to send him back is what we're going to do.
gina		Well I hope so. You have your hands full over there. And now taking care of that old man too. That sounds like a lot, Mike.
jackie		Thank you, Gina. I agree. He somehow forgot to tell me about it.
mike		I told you.
jackie		Not until I asked.
gina		His daughter should be taking care of him. Not you. You have me to worry about.
mike		I don't have to worry about him. He's at Oak Knoll. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 29 CONTINUED:
abby		Daddy? Can we play croquet today?
gina		The whole thing just sounds crazy.
jackie		It is crazy. It's crazy.
abby		 Who's crazy?
mike		Me.
mike		How did the visit go?
kyle		OK. He fell asleep watching TV. So he lives there now?
mike		Yeah. Your grandfather is in the early stages of dementia, Kyle. So sometimes he does things and says things that don't make sense.
kyle		Are you a friend of his or something?
mike		I'm his guardian.
kyle		What's that mean?
mike		It means I make sure he's well taken care of.
kyle		That's cool.
jackie		Everything alright?
kyle		Yeah.
jackie		Did you reach your mom?
kyle		Yeah. I told her I was coming home.
jackie		Did she want to talk to me or anything?
kyle		No.
jackie		Well, I'm sorry you can't stay longer but maybe you can come back with your mom and visit again.
kyle		Yeah. If I want to smoke should I go outside?
jackie		You shouldn't be smoking.
kyle		I know. But if I do.
jackie		Yeah. You should go outside.
kyle		OK. Good night, Jackie.
jackie		Good night, Kyle.
mike		What are you doing?
jackie		We have kids, Mike. I'm not taking any chances with Eminem down there.
mike		There's not even a bathroom down there.
leo		Hey Mike, could you talk to them about getting Coco Puffs? I like that kind.
mike		Sure thing, Leo.
leo		 Mike's a stand up guy. You need cereal then talk to him.
mike		We should go, Kyle.
kyle		OK. Bye Leo.
leo		Are you going to work?
kyle		No. I'm going home. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 32 CONTINUED:
leo		Well, don't take any shit from any of those guys.
kyle		I won't.
mike		Here's fifty bucks in case you need it.
kyle		I have money.
mike		Actually it's only forty-three but take it. You never know.
kyle		I have enough money. But thanks.
mike		Well, good luck, Kyle.
kyle		Yeah. You too, Mike.
mike		Hello? Yes, it is. Yes. OK. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 33 CONTINUED:
jackie		What?
mike		It was the police. They have Kyle.
jackie		What? Why?
mike		Breaking and entering.
jackie		What?
mike		So what happened?
kyle		I decided not to go home.
mike		And then you decided you'd break into your Grandfather's house?
kyle		You mind if I have a quick smoke?
mike		Yeah, I do. Get in the car.
mike		So you want to tell me what happened? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 34 CONTINUED:
kyle		Not really.
mike		Yeah. Well good luck with that, pal.
jackie		Kyle?
kyle		I can't live there anymore.
jackie		With your Mom? Did she do that to your eye?
kyle		No. She's not even there. She's in a clinic or hospital or whatever. I'm living with Craig.
jackie		Who's Craig? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 35 CONTINUED:
kyle		Her boyfriend, I guess, but he's an asshole.
jackie		Does she even know you're here?
kyle		My mom? She doesn't care about me.
jackie		How do you know? She's probably worried sick and just doesn't know how to reach you.
kyle		She could've called, right?
mike		So what are we gonna do? Adopt him?
jackie		No. But I'm not sending him back until I talk to his mother. She better freaking call me back.
mike		Honey, I know it's tough but we're not in a position to take care of another kid right now.
jackie		I don't care. I'm not sending him back there, Mike. I can't. And for the record, I'm not very happy about it either!
mike		Then we don't have to do this.
jackie		Yes, we do, Mike! We do. It makes me so angry and so damn sad to see that poor kid in that kind of situation. He's just a kid.
mike		I know. I know. You're right.
jackie		I just want to go to Ohio and...beat the crap out of his mom.
mike		Come on.
jackie		I do. I want to beat the crap out of her and her stupid boyfriend.
mike		OK.
jackie		I'm serious.
mike		I know. I'm just not sure that beating the crap out of everybody is the best solution.
jackie		Well it feels like it. I'm leaving her another message.
mike		Now?
jackie		Yes. Now. Shush! 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 37
terry		Have you talked to his mother?
mike		No. Not yet. Jack's left her about thirty messages.
terry		Mother fucker. He's wearing his tool belt.
terry		No. Sorry dude, I was distracted.
terry		It's my fucking house and no. I'm just driving. Where's the kid now?
mike		He's sitting in my waiting room. Jackie made me take him with me.
mike		No. What does that mean?
terry		It means you shouldn't be taking care of another kid. Especially a convict.
mike		 Yeah, well...
shelly		I found her.
mike		Let me call you back.
shelly		She's in a drug treatment program in Columbus. She has five weeks to go.
mike		Jesus. Can I talk to her?
shelly		They said she would call you.
mike		Who knows?
kyle		Can I go visit Leo?
mike		Uh...yeah...OK. You know where it is?
kyle		Yeah. Just down the street.
mike		OK, yeah. Just stay there and I'll pick you up at about three.
kyle		OK.
shelly		That's some crazy hair, I'm just saying.
mike		Hey, Rew, what are you doing? Coach, can you get on Pill.
vigman		Get up, Rew.
mike		Everyone watch because none of you are doing it right. You want to put your chest into his side.
stemler		Oh man, how'd that feel, Pill? We'll just call you "pancake"!
pill		Shut up, Chewbaka.
stemler		Yeah, right. More like the "Secret Apprentice".
feeney		What are you, ten years old, Stemler?
mike		Hey! We're trying to teach you guys something and you're all just goofing off. Shut up!
vig		Quiet!
mike		Last time I checked we haven't won a match! Right coach?! 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 41 CONTINUED:
vig		It's embarrassing, guys.
mike		It's embarrassing. But you're all acting like you don't care! Well, I'm not getting paid enough to just jerk around here.  I don't know about you?
vig		I'm not getting paid enough.
mike		I care about what I do and so should you!
vig		I care!
mike		So does coach Vig, and so should you! Run em, Coach. I can't look at them anymore!
vig		Let's go ladies!
jackie		Here, have some more corn.
mike		Uh...yeah I did but Terry said he'd help and I think we can...
jackie		Mike. Don't start. You two are not cutting down that tree. Just call Fenn.
abby		 Do you want to play croquet?
kyle		Now?
abby		When it's warm.
kyle		Yeah, maybe.
abby		Daddy, can I watch TV?
mike		Uh...yeah but just for a half hour.
kyle		Hey Mike, you think I could practice with you guys tomorrow?
mike		Yeah, if you want. Sure. And by the way, what I did in there today, yelling like that. I don't usually do that.
kyle		You were right, they deserved it. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 43
kyle		I don't have wrestling shoes.
mike		Don't worry about it. You ever wrestle before?
kyle		Yeah.
vigman		Get that ankle. Get that ankle! Time!
mike		Hey Vig. Alright, guys, listen up! Kyle's going to be working out with us for a little while.
stemler		 What's up Kyle!
vigman		Carlos, you and Jimmy rotate him in.
mike		Time. Switch. And...wrestle! 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 44 CONTINUED:
mike		You have fun?
kyle		Yeah.
mike		When's the last time you wrestled?
kyle		A couple years ago.
mike		Why'd you stop?
kyle		Just felt like it.
mike		So let me ask you something, Kyle. How good are you?
kyle		I'm pretty good.
mike		Holy shit. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 45
terry		Holy shit!
mike		I know, right? Can you believe that?!
terry		Holy shit! He was thirty-five and one as a freshman!
mike		I know. He finished second at the states. In Ohio!
terry		This kid had seventeen pins. He's a killer.
mike		I know. It's nuts. And he quit after his freshman year.
terry		Why?
mike		I don't know. He doesn't talk much. He's kind of a weird kid. Why can't I have one kid like that on my team? Just one. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 46 CONTINUED:
terry		What're you talking about? You do. You have him. You can take this kid to the states, Mike.
mike		He's not on the team, Ter. He's not even a student. He's been here for three days.
terry		So what? Enroll him!
mike		I'm not enrolling him. He's just here until we reach his mother and figure this out.
terry		So he's gotta do something, right? Let him wrestle. Look at this way, you're helping out the old man and this kid's a little bonus for doing the right thing.
mike		I'm not just helping out the old man, Ter. It's not like it's charity work. I'm getting paid for it.
terry		No. Shit, everyone gets paid, but think about it, Mike. What are the chances that this kid ends up on your door step and he can wrestle like that? It's a sign, pal.
mike		Wow. He's gonna throw him. Look, he's setting him up. He's setting him up!
jackie		Here's five dollars for lunch. I have no idea what it costs but let me know when you find out.
kyle		I have money.
jackie		Good for you. Save it. Now take this, it's too early to argue.
mike		OK. Let's go, pal.
jackie		Bye Jackie.
mike		Why not? Whether he's here for two more days or two weeks it gives him something to do all day. Unless you want him hanging out here?
jackie		OK. Go.
shelly		Hey Mike, we got a check from Leo Poplar's trust for $1,500 but it's made out to you and not the firm.
mike		Right. I'll take that.
shelly		Shouldn't I deposit it in the business account?
mike		No. It's not a legal fee. It's a personal fee.
shelly		For what?
mike		Oh, I ended up taking on Leo's guardianship.
shelly		 Really?
mike		Yeah, I thought I mentioned that to you.
shelly		No, you definitely didn't mention that.
mike		Yeah, well, it just played out that way. I have to get going.
shelly		Well can we put some of that in the business account so they don't take our copier back? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 49 CONTINUED:
mike		Uh..not this time. Next month. Promise.
shelly		We need our copier, Mike.
mike		I know. Bye Shelly.
shelly		And that noise is getting louder. I'm not hung over today!
mike		Hey honey. I'm good. Could you do me a favor and drop that health insurance check in the mail? I just forgot to mail it. Yeah, it's on my desk. Thanks. I'll call you later.
terry		What's up Fella's? Hitting the showers, huh?  That sounded weird.
terry		Oh yeah!
mike		Hey. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 50 CONTINUED:
terry		What's up? Hey Vig.
vigman		Hi Terry.
mike		What are you doing here?
terry		What do you think? I have to see this kid.
vigman		He's incredible. Just incredible. And he's good to wrestle.
terry		Great. So what's next?
mike		We're trying to figure out where he can wrestle?
terry		Where ever the hell he wants, right?
mike		No. Not right.
kyle		OK.
mike		This is my friend Terry.
terry		Hey man! Nice to meet you! Really nice to meet you. Welcome.
kyle		Thanks. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 51 CONTINUED:
mike		How the shoe's fit?
kyle		Good.
mike		So let me ask you something, Kyle. You think you might want to wrestle in a match?
kyle		OK.
mike		Great. We have a match on Saturday. What do you wrestle?
kyle		One-nineteen.
terry		Excellent. Done.
kyle		Is anyone there now?
mike		Yeah. Jimmy Reed. But I think he
kyle		Don't you think we should wrestle off?
vigman		Alright, let's go guys. Wrestle off.
mike		Vig, you keep time? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 52 CONTINUED:
vigman		Yeah.
terry		I'll do it.
vigman		No. Go ahead.
terry		Wow!
kyle		Good match.
jimmy		Didn't feel good.
vigman		I don't think we can teach him anything. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 53
terry		I don't know why we didn't quit. Just the smell of that room brought back the memories. I hated it, it was like a form of self-abuse.
kyle		Were you guys that bad?
terry		Mike was average. I sucked. Sorry Abby.
abby		It's OK.
mike		I gotta stop by the office and deal with the computer. Should I...?
jackie		No, I'll take him.
terry		We both should have quit. Then we could have joined the ski club and gotten busy with Allison Shepard on the overnights.
mike jackie		Hey! Yo! Terry!
abby		Who was busy?
jackie		Your Uncle Terry is just silly.
terry		Sorry Abby. Getting busy is bad.
kyle		Hey, how do you think we'd do against Kyle? Now?
terry		Yeah, you're right. The kid has man strength, dude.
mike		Man strength?
terry		Yeah. You know. Not kid strength. Man strength.
mike		Yeah...I wouldn't say that around the locker room.
terry		What the hell are you doing anyway?
mike		Trying to figure out what's wrong with my fricking back-up system.
terry		Just call your IT guy?
mike		I don't have an IT guy. IT guys cost money.
terry		OK. I'm just gonna say what's on my mind. I want to be an assistant coach too.
mike		Seriously? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 55 CONTINUED:
terry		Yeah. Why not? I'm value added. Especially compared to Vig.
mike		How are you value added?
terry		Well first of all I'm fun. No denying that. And secondly, unlike Vig, I actually used to wrestle.
mike		Yeah, but Ter, you sucked.
terry		That doesn't matter, your team sucks. Plus I even look more like a coach then Vig.
mike		Yeah, that's not really value added.
terry		Look, Mike, I'm serious here. I need some distraction in my life right now. All I do is sit in my condo and think about Lori and that guy having sex in the jacuzzi I paid for. It's fucking unhealthy. I've been really kind of going crazy. Really.
mike		We start at 3:30pm. Don't be late.
terry		My brother! I will not let you down. To the team.
mike		Just a singlet. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 56 CONTINUED:
terry		Really?
mike		Yeah, so we can see your man strength.
terry		Good one, Coach! See, it's already fun.
jackie		Hello? Hello, this Jackie Flaherty. Kyle is staying with us. Hello?  I'm gonna kill that lady.
kyle		You answered it?
jackie		Yeah, well, I saw it was your Mom and we've been waiting to hear from her.
kyle		What'd she say?
jackie		She didn't say anything. She hung up. Have you talked to her?
kyle		No. Can you not answer my phone anymore?
jackie		Yeah. OK. I can do that. I'm sorry. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 57 CONTINUED:
kyle		I quit now that I'm wrestling
jackie		Oh. Good. OK.
jackie		Is that Abby?
mike		If it is, she just ran away.
mike		Were you outside?
kyle		Yeah. I went for a run.
mike		It's pretty early. You do this every morning?
kyle		In season, yeah. I like to get my run in early and then drill some moves for an hour before school.
mike		Oh. Wow.
kyle		Yeah...so I'm gonna do it. See you. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 58 CONTINUED:
mike		It was Kyle.
jackie		What's he doing?
mike		Working out.
jackie		Is he gonna do it every morning?
mike		In season. Yeah.
jackie		I hate you.
mike		I know.
vigman		Jesus! Look at those tats.
terry		This kid is just fricking cool.
ref		Timmons. One nineteen. Good.
terry		This song sucks.
vigman		Rew picked it. He's an odd one.
terry		Hey Vig, which kid is yours anyway?
vigman		None of them. He quit.
terry		Really? You're son quit?
vigman		My step son and yes. Don't get me started, I thought becoming a coach might be a nice way for us to bond. He said it wasn't fierce and he quit.
terry		Harsh. So why you still doing it?
mike		Vig is leading by example. Winners never quit.
vigman		That's right, even if it sucks. This team is just depressing sometimes.
terry		Sorry buddy. I got to be near, Mike. It's good luck.
vigman		Say's who?
mike		Guys. I don't think we should fight about our seats in front of the kids. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 60
mike		OK. You ready?
kyle		Yeah.
mike		This kid is good. So just...you know...be ready out there.
kyle		Can you give me a slap?
mike		What?
kyle		Give me a slap. Across the face. Like your waking me up.
mike		Uh, OK.
kyle		Can you do it harder?
terry		Come on, Kyle. Take this punk out. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 61 CONTINUED:
mike		 Ter! Cut the shit! You're a coach. You're not sitting in the stands.
terry		Sorry. I'm just excited. You know me.
vigman		Losing.
mike		It's his first match. Give him a break.
kyle		 Yeah.
vigman		Did he smile?
mike		Yeah. I think he did.
terry		Good. That's good, right?
vigman		That's got nothing to do with luck.
mike		How'd that feel? Pretty good?
kyle		Yeah, pretty good.
mike		You ready?
jimmy		Yeah. Can you slap me too, Coach?
jackie		I'm going to the market. I'll be back in a bit.
kyle		Can I go with you?
jackie		Uh...yeah OK.
abby		I want to go with Kyle.
mike		No, honey. It's almost bed time.
jackie		Coco Puffs. Is that your brand?
kyle		It's for Leo.
jackie		Nice. Drop it in, it's on me. Go ahead.  How's he doing?
kyle		He's doing OK. He can say some pretty funny things. Yesterday he told me I was fired.
jackie		Fired? For what?
kyle		I don't know. He just fired me.
jackie		I think I have to meet this Leo.
kyle		Yeah. He's a pretty funny dude.
jackie		You have any home work?
kyle		A little but I already did it.
jackie		Impressive. You ever think about going to college? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 64 CONTINUED:
kyle		Yeah but just to wrestle. My old coach thought I could get a scholarship.
jackie		Yeah, I hear you're pretty good. So why'd you quit?
kyle		Yeah.
jackie		Me, too. I make a mean taco.
vigman		Let's go! Circle up!
mike		Alright. I want to spend this week working on bottom position. Did you all see Kyle the other day? He exploded up. Kyle, show the guys what you did.
kyle		It's kind of my own thing.
mike		So can you share it with us? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 65 CONTINUED:
kyle		Well, it's not a move or anything, I just tell myself that the guy on top is going to take my head and shove it under water and kill me. And if I don't want to die on the bottom, I just gotta do what ever the fuck it takes to get out.
vigman		OK. So the move is called "whatever the fuck it takes." Let's go. Let's work on it. Come on. "Whatever the fuck it takes."
leo		You're mother didn't want to come?
kyle		No.
leo		She's a tough kid that one. She tell you bad things about me?
kyle		Yeah. But I never believe her anyway.
leo		You should, she's your mother. Respect that.  Can you turn that down? I hate that judge. I wouldn't be in this place if it wasn't for her.
kyle		But this place is pretty nice. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 66 CONTINUED:
leo		It's not my damn house! I paid for that house. Damn Judge. Turn it off!
kyle		You want to take a walk outside, Leo?
leo		Yeah. Let's go to my park.
kyle		Your park, huh?
leo		Yeah. My park.
mike		You bring the tape?
kyle		Yeah. It's in my bag.
mike		Yeah. Of course. What?
kyle		Leo told me that some Judge made him move into that place. Is that true or is he just making that up?
mike		No. That's true, pal.
kyle		Why? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 67 CONTINUED:
mike		Well because they can take good care of him there, Kyle.
kyle		But he wants to live at home.
mike		I know, pal. Hang on a minute.  Hello? Yes. This is him.
jackie		What? She doesn't even know us!
mike		Yeah, well I think she heard that I'm a lawyer and I have a family and that was good enough.
jackie		For how long?
mike		Another month, I guess, until she gets out of rehab. She said that Craig guy took off. She sounded pretty shaky. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 68 CONTINUED:
jackie		I can't believe this lady.
mike		Yeah. I know. Where is he anyway?
jackie		In the basement with Abby.  This is crazy.
mike		Yes, it is. So what do we do?
jackie		We let him stay. I don't know, do we even have a choice?
mike		I guess we don't.
stemler		You nervous?
kyle		No.
stemler		I am.
kyle		You're not wrestling.
stemler		I know. I'm just nervous a lot.
kyle		You ever think about wrestling in a match? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 69 CONTINUED:
stemler		Yeah. I'm just waiting for the green light from Coach. But I'm glad I'm not wrestling today. These guys are ranked fourth in the state. And you're wrestling Kenny Randall. He's undefeated. He is tough! Really tough.
kyle		Thanks for letting me know.
vigman		Hey! Cut the chatter! You should all be playing the "what if" game. What if he shoots a single leg? What if he controls my wrists?
stemler		What if we all get pinned like last year?
vigman		Shut up, Stemler! Or I'll throw you off the bus myself!
terry		Did they really pin all of you?
vigman		Just about. It's gonna be a fucking bloodbath.
mike		OK. This is Kenny Randall. He's very good.
kyle		Yeah, I heard.
mike		But you have an advantage here, he has no idea who you are, right?  So he's gonna be overconfident. You take advantage of that and when you get your shot, put him away.
abby		Why did Daddy hit Kyle?
jackie		I don't know, honey.
vigman		He just pinned Kenny Randall. Are you kidding me?!
kyle		He know's who I am now.
kyle		Hi, can I watch TV in here? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 71 CONTINUED:
jackie		Yeah but I want to show you something. Stella, who's that?
stella		Ky.
jackie		She started saying it at the match today.
kyle		That's cool.
jackie		OK. So I have to ask, those tatoo's must have hurt, right?
kyle		Not really.
jackie		Don't lie to me. Look.
kyle		What's it say?
jackie		JBJ. Jon Bon Jovi. I'm a fan. You got a problem with that?
kyle		No I do not.
jackie		That was fun today. You're good. I'm glad you started wrestling again.
kyle		Yeah. Me too. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 72 CONTINUED:
jackie		No quitting this time, you got that?
kyle		Can I tell you something?
jackie		Of course.
kyle		I didn't quit my old team. I got thrown off.
jackie		Why?
kyle		I stole a car.
jackie		What? You're don't even drive.
kyle		Yeah. That was part of the problem.
jackie		Who's car did you steal?
kyle		A teacher's.
jackie		Oh my God.
kyle		It was really stupid.
jackie		Yeah. It was stupid. You could have killed yourself.
kyle		Yeah. Everything just got messed up after that.
jackie		Yeah, well we all do stupid things. But the best part is that you got a another chance and now you're kicking butt. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 73 CONTINUED:
kyle		I guess.
jackie		It's true. And you know who would agree with me?
kyle		Mike?
jackie		Nope. JBJ.
vigman		They don't have anyone at heavyweight.
mike		Really? Korsic will be happy. Tell him now so he doesn't puke.
terry		Why does he puke? He's a heavyweight. He doesn't have to lose weight.
vigman		Nerves.
terry		Sweet Lord. This is a team for the ages.
mike		What's up, guys?
kyle		Stemler wants to wrestle today.
mike		You do?
stemler		Yeah, Coach. I'm pretty sure I'm ready. Right?
kyle		Right.
mike		Where you gonna wrestle? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 75 CONTINUED:
kyle		He could wrestle 119. I could bump up and get a pin at 125 and Jimmy goes 130. Then we're only giving up one weight class and we got a shot.
mike		Huh. Vig?
vig		Yeah. He's right. It's possible.
terry		Have you ever wrestled in a match before Stemler?
stemler		No, I have not.
kyle		You're just waiting for the green light, right?
stemler		Right. I think now is my time. I can feel the force.
bh coach		One twenty-five.
vigman		We start at 125 pounds. Depasquale and Timmons. We'll finish at 119 pounds. Tomlinson and Stemler.
vigman		Thanks for the update Stemler.
terry		We're dead.
mike		No. It's gonna be fine.
mike		Hook the arm! Carlos, hook the arm!
vigman		With that win, we're up by five. If Stemler doesn't get pinned, we win.
terry		That's a huge fucking "if".
vigman		Good job, Ter.
terry		Sorry, Stemler. You're a champ.
mike		Come here, Stemler.
stemler		 No way. No way.
mike		Good. Now I'm going to slap you. Ready?
stemler		Yeah but not so hard.
kyle		Hey, Stemler. Come here.
stemler		Yeah. You're right.
terry		I can't watch.
mike		Keep moving, Stemler. Keep working!
vigman		 Oh shit. Oh shit!
terry		What?
vigman		He's one point away from a tech fall and we'd lose on criteria.
mike		Shit. Really?
terry		What the hell does that mean?
vigman		If he falls behind by fifteen points it's a technical fall. They get five team points. If that happens the score would be tied but we'd lose the match on criteria.
terry		Seriously? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 79 CONTINUED:
mike		Fuck this!
mike		Hey, I'm proud of what you did today. That win meant a lot to the guys.
kyle		Cool. It was good coaching with Stemler. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 80 CONTINUED:
mike		Let me ask you something. What's it like? Being as good as you are? What's it feel like?
kyle		I don't know. I guess it just feels like I'm in control. Of everything. You know what I mean?
mike		Yeah, I do. Must be nice.
kyle		It is.
vigman		That's it.
mike		Yeah.
terry		District champ, baby.
vigman		Pure fucking poetry.
kyle		Hey, Leo. Guess who won the Districts?
leo		Who? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 81 CONTINUED:
kyle		Me. And Mike said he got a call from a college scout about me.
leo		Oh.
kyle		What are you doing here?
cindy		I came to get you, honey. And to see Grandpa. I missed you so much. Can I have a hug, baby?
leo		Where's he going?
cindy		Oh, he's just had to go somewhere, Dad. Do you want some juice?
mike		How is he?
jackie		He's upset. I don't blame him. It's weird that she just shows up like that.  And of course she's late, the druggie.
mike		Honey. Can you stop, please?
jackie		You're gonna talk to her, right? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 82 CONTINUED:
mike		Yeah. I am. If you don't punch her first.
jackie		It's not my fault if I punch her.
mike		Yeah, it is. That will be your fault.
cindy		Hi.
mike		And this is my wife, Jackie and my daughter, Stella.
cindy		Hi.
jackie		Hi, Cindy. Nice to meet you.
cindy		She's very cute.
jackie		Thanks. Abby, our six year old, is downstairs with Kyle.
cindy		Oh. OK.
jackie		Do you want to sit down?
cindy		Thanks. This is a very nice house. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 83 CONTINUED:
jackie		Thank you very much.
mike		Can I get you a drink or something?
cindy		No. No thanks. I'm fine.
mike		Right. OK. So I'll go get Kyle.
cindy		How's he doing?
mike		Oh, he's doing really well. He's going to the high school here and he's wrestling on the team actually.
cindy		Really? That's good. He loves wrestling so much.
jackie		He's a really sweet kid. Our girls love him.
cindy		That's nice.
jackie		Oh hey...these things happen, Cindy. And we've loved having him. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 84 CONTINUED:
mike		Hi, honey. This is Abby.
cindy		Hi Abby.
abby		Hi.
mike		Abby, can you go get Kyle for us?
abby		He left.
mike		He left? What do you mean?
abby		He left out the window.
mike		I'm really sorry about this.
cindy		That's okay. Thanks.
mike		You know Kyle's doing really well with wrestling here, Cindy. The regions are this weekend and if he wins there then he goes to the states.
cindy		That's great.
mike		Yeah. It is and it could be really good for him. It might even mean a scholarship. Anyway, I was wondering if you could stay here for another three weeks until that's all over. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 85 CONTINUED:
cindy		I'd like to but don't think I can afford to stay in the hotel for that long. Do you think we could stay in my dad's house?
mike		Uhh...yeah. We could probably make that work.
cindy		Then, yeah, I could stay.
mike		OK. Good. That's great.
mike		Really?  We found him.
terry		Yeah. We're playing Wii Golf. I'm destroying him. Dude, this kid really hates his mother.
mike		Yeah, OK. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 86 CONTINUED:
mike		Great, Ter. Thanks. Bye.  He went to my friend's house. We can go get him.
cindy		Maybe I'll just go back to the hotel. It might just be too much for him tonight. I can see him tomorrow.
mike		You sure?
cindy		Yeah. I think maybe that's better. I know how Kyle can be.
mike		OK. I'll drop you off.
kyle		So when wrestling's over I have to go?
mike		I'm afraid so, pal. She's staying so you can finish the season. That's pretty nice of her.
kyle		Where? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 87 CONTINUED:
mike		Where ever you want. She could come here or we could go see her at Leo's house. She moving in this morning.
kyle		I'll go see her at Leo's before practice. But I want to go alone.
mike		 Yeah, that's OK but Kyle but you have to promise me...
kyle		Don't worry, Mike. I'll go.
old neighbor		Hi Mike.
mike		Hi Betty. How's the foot?
betty		Better.
shelly		Mike? Cindy's here.
mike		Really? Did she say why?
shelly		No. But she's here with an attorney.
mike		Hi Cindy. Hi, I'm Mike Flaherty. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 88 CONTINUED:
eleanor		Hi, I'm Eleanor Cohen.
mike		Please come in.
eleanor		She retained me last week to help sort out her father's situation.
mike		Last week? I thought she just arrived two days ago.  How long have you been here?
eleanor		She wanted a little time to settle in and spend some time with her father.
mike		So how can I help?
eleanor		Cindy has decided that she wants a more active role in her father's care.
mike		What kind of a role is that?
cindy		I want to take care of him.
mike		Really? So you want to move here?
eleanor		No. Cindy would like to bring her father back to Columbus.
cindy		That's where my support network is now. It's home. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 89 CONTINUED:
mike		Well I'm not sure that's what Leo wants.
cindy		I already talked to him about it. He seem to like the idea.
mike		I understand that, Cindy. But you haven't seen Leo in a long time and he's battling dementia now so it puts me in a tough position here.
eleanor		She is the presumed Guardian, Mr Flaherty.
mike		I understand that.
eleanor		And we do hope to avoid litigation.
mike		So do I and I'm sure we can. Now, I'm sorry, but I actually have to go see a client so we'll have to set up another time to discuss this.
cindy		Kyle's still coming to see me today, right?
mike		Yeah. Of course. After school.
eleanor		I'll have my office call. Come on Cindy.
cindy		Thanks Mike.
mike		Yeah, it's that bad.
terry		Just take her to court, you'll kill her.
mike		I can't.
terry		Why not? She's a freaking mess. You're a pillar of the community, Mike.
mike		I just can't go back in front of Judge Lee, it won't look good, trust me.
terry		So maybe you'll get a different judge.
mike		She's the only Judge who handles these cases and if I look bad in front of her right now, I'm screwed. I'll have to close my fricking doors.
terry		Then dump it. Give her Poplar. It sucks but you've got your practice to worry about, right?
mike		Yeah, I do.
terry		Incoming, dude.
mike		Hey, pal.
kyle		Do you know she wants to take Leo back to Ohio?
mike		Yeah. She just told me today.
kyle		You're not gonna let her do that are you?
mike		I don't know Kyle. It's complicated.
kyle		What's complicated about it? She doesn't give a shit about Leo. They hate each other. You can't let her take him.
mike		OK. OK. Look, just go get ready for practice and I'll deal with it.
kyle		Fine but I told her I'm staying with you guys until we leave.
terry		Wow. What's your play?
mike		I have no idea. I have no freaking idea!
terry		She's looking for a payout, dude. Just buy her stake and give her an exit.
mike		What the hell does that mean?
terry		Just give her some of Leo's money and send her home. He's not gonna miss it. He's in happy land. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 92 CONTINUED:
mike		No, I can't do that. She's not even in his...
terry		What's your play?
mike		Don't worry about it. I just need to make a call. Can you get practice started?
terry		Really? You want me to slap your face? Get you psyched up for the call?
mike		No. I really don't.
eleanor		So do we.
mike		Good, well, I thought I'd start by laying all the cards on the table, so maybe you can understand why I'm hesitating in turning Leo over to Cindy. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 93 CONTINUED:
eleanor		OK.
mike		Cindy, your father disinherited you from his will. Completely. And I'm afraid that can't change now that he's been declared incapacitated.
cindy		 Is that true?
eleanor		We'll have to see a copy of the will, Mike.
mike		Yeah. I actually brought you a copy.
cindy		Who did he leave it too? Did he leave it to Kyle?!
mike		No.
cindy		Then who? You?
mike		No. He left everything to the municipal parks system. He wanted the town park dedicated in his name.
cindy		That scumbag! He never cared about anyone but himself and his fucking money. Did you know about this?
eleanor		Cindy please!
cindy		Please what? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 94 CONTINUED:
eleanor		 I'd like to discuss this with my client, Mr. Flaherty.
cindy		What's to discuss? I'm not taking care of him if I'm not getting anything for it.
eleanor		Cindy, please.  We're finished here.
mike		OK.
terry		Brass balls, buddy. Brass balls.
mike		Yeah. And she's gone back to the motel.
terry		That's good.
mike		Yes, it is. Yeah, I think it worked.
terry		It totally worked. They opened their kimono and you made them eat the trade.
mike		I don't what know what your talking about half the time. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 95 CONTINUED:
terry		Really?
mike		Yeah. Really.
mike		It's time, Coach.  You ready?
vigman		He's ready.
terry		Yeah, he is.
vigman		Wow. This is big time. I bet there are scouts here.
terry		Definitely. And wait till we get to the states! Atlantic City here we come, baby.
vigman		Atlantic City. Fierce.
cindy		Good luck, baby.
mike		Listen to me. One more win and we are going to the states. That's what counts. That's all that matters. You hear me?
ref		Warning. Red. One point.
mike		Kyle! Hey! Control! Control!
mike		How you doing? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 97 CONTINUED:
kyle		I'm sorry.
mike		Hey, it's alright.
kyle		I don't want to go with her. I don't.
mike		OK, pal. OK.
mike		Why are you here?
cindy		I wanted to see my son wrestle.
mike		Yeah, well your son had a pretty good chance to do something special in there. Maybe even change his life and that's gone now. I hope you're happy.
cindy		That's not my fault.
mike		It isn't? Why do you think he lost his shit in there, huh?! What do you want, lady?
cindy		I want my father. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 98 CONTINUED:
mike		It didn't sound like that the other day. It sounded like you hated the guy.
cindy		You have no idea what my father used to be like. No idea! He wasn't like he is now! He treated me like shit and he was all I had!
mike		So now you want to return the favor? Is that it?!
cindy		I want that commission! That should be mine!
mike		And that's why you're doing all this? For fifteen hundred dollars a month?
cindy		Isn't that why you did it?
mike		Alright, I'll tell you what. You want the commission? You can have it. And you don't even have to take Leo. I'll take care of him for free and I'll send you the check every month. On one condition.
cindy		What's that?
mike		You leave Kyle here. With us. Until he finishes high school.
cindy		I'm his mother. He belongs with me.
mike		Are you sure he feels that way? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 99 CONTINUED:
cindy		Don't tell me what my son feels! He's coming with me and there isn't anything you can do about that.
mike		Then you can't have that commission.
cindy		We'll see about that.
mike		Yeah, we will.
cindy		I want to see my son!
mike		Then call him! You have his number!
terry		We were right there, Mike. Right fucking there. And now we have nothing. Nothing!
mike		You OK?
terry		No.
jackie		Mike, your mom's here and dinner's almost ready. Have you seen Kyle?
mike		He's not in the basement? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 100 CONTINUED:
jackie		No.
terry		I'll track him down.
mike		Thanks, Terry.
terry		 What a day, huh?
jackie		Yeah, right.
mike		There's nothing to do. I can't stop her. She's gonna leave and she's gonna take Kyle and Leo with her.
jackie		And you don't think you'd beat her in court?
mike		No. I don't.
jackie		Why? It's so obvious she's just wants him for the money.
mike		I just can't win this one, Jackie. Trust me.
jackie		I do. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 101
cindy		Kyle, honey, come in. I'm so glad you came.
kyle		No. What do you want?
cindy		I just wanted to say how sorry I was about the match and if I did anything to cause it then I will never forgive myself. I know how much wrestling means to you, baby.
kyle		Is that why you called me. Just to tell me that?
cindy		No. I also wanted to say that I'll do whatever you think is best for Leo. I promise.
kyle		Then leave him here. Where he is.
cindy		OK. I will. If that's what you want. But I have to be honest, I'm not sure that's what Leo wants.
kyle		What do you mean?
cindy		Here. Read this. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 102 CONTINUED:
kyle		What is it?
cindy		It's the court transcript from when Leo was in court. My lawyer got it. Read the parts in yellow. See what it says.
kyle		This isn't real. The Judge told Leo he had to live there.
cindy		No, honey. This is official from the court. It's what Mike said.
kyle		Why?
cindy		Why what?
kyle		Why does he belong with us?
cindy		Because we deserve that money, Kyle. Not some lawyer. You're a big boy. You can understand that. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 103 CONTINUED:
kyle		Shut up! Shut up!
mike		OK. Thanks, Karen. I appreciate it. Bye.
jackie		Anything?
mike		He's not at Stemler's.
jackie		This is crazy, where could he be?
mike		I don't know, he's upset, maybe he went for a walk.
jackie		Well we should take a drive, your mom can stay with the kids.
mike		Hello. Yes, this is him. What? 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 104
staff member		Sir, stay calm, we'll find him.
mike		Stay calm? You've lost my ward!
jackie		Mike! Calm down.
mike terry		Calm down?! We are gonna sue you guys, silly. He's a laywer!
staff member		Look, he's definitely not on the premises. A lot of the time they just try to go home. We're about to go there.
terry		Hey folks, listen up! Watch out for each other.
terry		There's a light on.
jackie		It's got to be him. Do have the key?
mike		No. I didn't bring it with me.
jackie		What's he doing?
mike		Watching TV.
terry		What's he watching?
jackie		Who cares?
mike		Leo? Hey Leo?
terry		This is freaking spooky.
mike		I have a key back at the office. I could go get it.
jackie		Is he OK?
mike		He seems it. He's just sitting there. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 106 CONTINUED:
leo		Hi.
leo		Come on in.
terry		OK. That is very creepy.
mike		You OK, Leo?
jackie mike		Kyle? You took Leo?
mike		Have you lost your mind?! We've been worried sick about him!
jackie		About both of you!
kyle		You don't have to worry about us.
terry		OK. That's super spooky. Just saying.
mike		Kyle, What the hell are you doing?
kyle		 Making spaghetti.
mike		Have you lost your mind?
kyle		No.
jackie		Kyle, why did you do this? Please just tell us. Leo needs to be in a home.
kyle		This is where he belongs.
jackie		Kyle he needs to be at Oak Knoll.
mike		Kyle, we talked about this.
kyle		Yeah. We did! Listen to this.
jackie		What is that?
kyle		It's from the court.
jackie		Where did you get this?
kyle		From my mother.  It's true isn't, Mike?
jackie		Mike?
kyle		You're just like her.
mike		Hey. Hey, Kyle.
kyle		Leave me alone!
mike		Kyle please. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 109 CONTINUED:
kyle		Don't touch me!
terry		Oh shit.
mike		Would you let me explain?!
kyle		Explain what? How you lied to me? How you lied to Leo?
mike		Kyle I don't want to wrestle you.
jackie terry		Kyle, stop for a minute. Keep your hands out, Mike. Hands out.
jackie		Terry, stop it!
terry		I'm just trying to help.
jackie		You're not helping.
mike		I'm trying to stop it!
terry		Sit out Mike! Sit out!
jackie mike		Shut up, Terry! Kyle, stop it!
jackie		Would you stop coaching and break that up!
terry		I'm the ref. I'm just the ref!
jackie		Kyle! Stop! Please!
mike		Yeah, it is.
jackie		So why'd you move him if he wanted to stay here.
mike		Because it would have been too much work to leave him here. I couldn't have done it.
jackie		Then you shouldn't have taken him. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 111 CONTINUED:
mike		I had to, alright?
jackie		Why?!
mike		Because I needed the money! We needed the money.
jackie		You moved an old man out of his house to make money? Have you lost your freaking mind?
mike		No! I just didn't think it would get this complicated.
jackie		Really? Or you just didn't think you'd get caught?
mike		Jack! Jack, where are you going?
jackie		Home!
kyle		Hello. Hello. Mom?
stemler		Did your mom just crank call you?
kyle		No. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 112 CONTINUED:
stemler		So you and Coach Mike get in a fight because you lost?
kyle		No. We got in a fight because he's an asshole.
stemler		Really?
kyle		Yeah, really, Stem.
stemler		Well I'm sure he'll make it up to you, bro. You're the best wrestler he's ever had. I mean he's always been cool to me and I suck.
mike		Hey Leo.
leo		Hi.
mike		I fell asleep. I'm sorry.
leo		Sorry for what?
mike		You want to go home?
leo		Yeah.
jackie		Hi.
mike		Hi. Is he here?
jackie		No. He slept at Stemler's. How about you?
mike		Oak Knoll.  You're right, that's not who I am.
jackie		So what are you going to do?
mike		I have to go court.
jackie		You can't. You told the Judge you were keeping Leo at home.
mike		I know.
jackie		So then tell her you changed your mind. No one can question that.
mike		I can't, Jack.
jackie		Why not?
mike		Because it's not true.
jackie		Well I'm glad your done lying now, just in time to lose your practice. That's how we survive, Mike. Your family. You ever think of that?
mike		Yeah. All the time.
jackie		Shit.
mike		I'm sorry, Jack. I really am.
jackie		I know.
jackie		Hey Kyle. How'd you get down here?
kyle		The window.
jackie		Are you hungry? I was gonna make some pancakes.
kyle		No. I'm leaving. I just came to get my shit.
mike		Kyle, listen, I just wanted to say I'm sorry...
kyle		I know, Mike, you're sorry. Everyone's always sorry.
mike		I moved Leo back home, Kyle. And I'm gonna fight to keep him there.
kyle		It's too late. You'll lose. My mother's gonna take him. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 115 CONTINUED:
mike		Maybe but I'm still gonna try.
kyle		So what?! You want me to forgive you now? Is that it, Mike?!
mike		No. I just want you to give me another chance. That's all I'm asking.
kyle		This is bullshit!
mike		Hey, Kyle, listen -
kyle		I want to be alone.
mike		What?
kyle		 I JUST WANT TO BE DOWN HERE ALONE!
mike		OK. All right. Yeah.
jackie		Kyle, I just wanna say - we love you.
terry		Hi guys.
mike		What are you doing here?
terry		Dude, I'm your assistant coach. And just notice who isn't here.
mike		Yeah, I got it.
eleanor		Mike?
mike		Hi Eleanor.
eleanor		Can I talk to you?
mike		Sure.
eleanor		You know the transcript alone is enough to hang you.
mike		Yeah, well, we'll see what happens.
eleanor		Shame on you counselor.
mike		Is that it?
eleanor		No. My client would like to talk to you.
mike		Hi Cindy.
cindy		Hi. Is your deal still available?
mike		What about Kyle?
cindy		He can stay.
mike		Then yes. It is. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 118 CONTINUED:
cindy		And you'll send me the checks?
mike		Every month.
cindy		You take good care of him.
mike		We will.
cindy		I want to say goodbye.
stemler		I know. Don't rush me.
mike		Hi guys!
abby		Hi, Daddy. I'm winning. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 119 CONTINUED:
stemler kyle		What's up, coach? Hi.
mike		That's great, honey. Kyle, can you drag those garbage cans to the side of the house for me?
kyle		OK.
mike		Thanks, pal.
mike		Hi Honey.
mike		Good. I got stuck at the office with a client.
jackie		I know, Shelly called. Oh, I dropped off the fan at Leo's today.
mike		Thanks for doing that.
jackie		Do you have time to eat.
mike		I'll eat there.
jackie		Make sure you do. 5/15/10 - FULL SHOOTING SCRIPT - WIN WIN 120
terry		Can I get a banana daiquiri, please?
mike		Sure.
terry		Nah. I'm good. But keep these coming.
mike		Me? I'm pretty good.
****Dialogues from script :Wind_Chill.txt****

girl		Hey!
girl		Do you think you could have parked any further from the entrance?
guy		 There were still cars when I got here. I thought we were going to get an early start to stay ahead of the snow?
girl		What time is it?
guy		Quarter past three.
girl		I'm two hours late?! Shit. Sorry. You should've just left without me. That's what I would've done. Hurry up and pop the trunk so I can stow my shit.
guy		I'm kinda getting kicked out of my apartment. I didn't have time to find someplace new before exams.
girl		Why don't you just get the engine started and put the heat on? I can handle this.
guy		Sorry... it sticks.
guy		That's as far as it goes.   Sorry.
girl		 ... Believe me, I tried, but I couldn't get a flight. It's my own fault for waiting `til the last minute...
girl		 What, are you kidding? I'm bored to tears... No, we're still on the highway... how should I know, all highways look exactly alike.
guy		You going to be on that thing the whole-
girl		 Who do you think? Ride Board Guy. Okay, `bye.
guy		 This isn't cool. If I have to drive, you have to talk to me.
girl		What, I'm the in-flight entertainment?
guy		That's how this ride-sharing thing works. Division of labor. We split everything fifty-fifty... Get it?
girl		I've got news for you, I don't get much more entertaining than when I'm on the phone.
guy		 This is turning out great.
girl		What's that mean?
guy		Forget it.
girl		So you're from Wilmington, huh?
guy		Yeah.
girl		Where'd you go to school?
guy		 Um... Saint Vitus Academy.
girl		St. Vitus? You're making that up.
guy		You're acquainted with every school in the area?
girl		Pretty much, yeah.
guy		Including all the Catholic ones? Because that's where I went. Saint Vitus Academy for Catholic Boys.
girl		Okay, fine...
guy		We had a class together, you know.
girl		Huh?
guy		Intro to Modern Philosophy.
girl		What? There were about a million people in that class. It was like Woodstock. Did you ever see so many Eastern religion types?  So, what's your major?
guy		Eastern religions.
girl		No. Why?
guy		I don't know. I just assumed...
girl		Why would you assume anything about me? We just met.
guy		 I don't know... I guess you just... look like a philosophy major.
girl		Try engineering.
guy		Nietzsche's theory of eternal recurrence.
girl		Which is basically reincarnation, right?
guy		No, they're not really the same thing. Reincarnation is when you come back as something different and eternal recurrence is when you 
girl		He died of syphilis, you know.
girl		 Next gas station you see, do me a favor and pull over. I gotta pee.
guy		Okay, I'll keep my eyes peeled.
girl		 That phrase. `Keeping your eyes peeled.' It's kind of creepy, if you think about it.
guy		Huh. Actually, yeah, it is sorta.
girl		They use a laser.
guy		Well, yeah, they do... But there's definitely peeling involved too. I saw it on Discovery Health. If more people knew about the peeling part they might think twice before going under the knife.
girl		Laser.
guy		Right, laser.
girl		I'm having corrective eye surgery over the break.
guy		Oh.
girl		It's okay. I'm not really worried.
guy		Why?
girl		I'm not worried?
guy		You're getting it done...
girl		Because I hate wearing glasses.
guy		But they look good on you.
girl		How do you know? I don't wear them outside my dorm.
guy		You sure? You never... to class or anything? Because I could swear I-
girl		Never.
guy		Huh. Weird. I wonder why I thought-
guy		I thought you had to pee?
girl		I didn't expect us to find a bathroom so soon. My nails aren't dry.
guy		Oh.
girl		That's okay, they'll be dry in just a second.
guy		Come on, I'm good at this...
girl		You are not carrying me inside.
guy		Hold on.
girl		What are you doing?! Wait -
girl		Thanks.
guy		Sure.
girl		You can let me down now.
guy		Okay.
girl		HEY. HEY, I'M LOCKED IN HERE!
girl		Didn't you hear me banging in there?
guy		 When?
girl		You think it's funny? Me locked in?
guy		Locked in where?
girl		You're telling me you didn't just hear me banging on the door?
guy		I don't know what you're-
girl		 Forget it. Let's just get on the road.
clerk		Remember, highway's your best bet-
guy		 Don't worry about it man, I got it all covered.
girl		Are we lost or something?
guy		 No, I've made this drive a million times.
guy		What's that for?
girl		My half of the gas.
guy		Keep it.
girl		What do you mean? Isn't that how ride-sharing works? -- We split everything fifty-fifty?
guy		I don't take money from friends.
girl		What the hell are you doing!?
guy		Scenic detour.
girl		 No way! Get back on the highway.
guy		Relax, I checked it out on the map. It looks interesting.
girl		I mean it, get back on the highway right now! This is not going to happen!
guy		Will you chill. It's a shortcut. We'll be back on the highway before you know it.
guy		Not many radio stations out here.
girl		We're in a valley. FM radio waves travel in a straight line. They can't penetrate big obstacles like hills. Try AM.
guy		Where were you when I was flunking freshman physics?
girl		So... Does your family do the whole traditional Christmas thing?
guy		No, my grandparents are Dutch, so I was raised on salted licorice and Sinterklaas...
girl		How's that different from the regular Santa Claus?
guy		Instead of the North Pole, he lives in Spain. And instead of elves he's got an enforcer named Black Pete. Basically he's like your Santa, only scarier.
girl		Charming.
guy		What's your Christmas like?
girl		My folks split my freshman year, so I spend the holidays racing between them. Two trees... two turkey dinners...two sets of presents to return for store credit. So normally I can deal, but this year mom decided to rent a condo at the beach. Which is like, what? Two hours away.
guy		I don't know. The beach can be sort of nice in the winter. Romantic.
girl		So were you a Rehobeth beach family or Stone Harbor?
guy		Stone Harbor.
girl		We always went to Rehobeth. Year in and year out... Jesus, I've never been more bored in my life. I was always so jealous of my friends who spent summers at the Jersey shore.
guy		Me too.
girl		Stone Harbor is the Jersey shore.
guy		 Hm? Oh, yeah, I know. What I meant was-
girl		You aren't from Delaware, are you?
guy		Well, see, it's kind of complicated-
girl		Who are you?!
guy		I'm exactly who I said I was, am, it's just-
girl		What the hell's going on here?
guy		Nothing's going on-
girl		WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON HERE!?
guy		Look, just calm down. I can explain-
girl		You think he doesn't see us?
guy		How can he not?
girl		Pull over and let this asshole by.
guy		Over where? There's no shoulder.
brenda lee		Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, at the Christ-mas par-ty hop...
brenda lee		Mistletoe hung where you can see, Ev'ry couple tries to STOP. Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, have a happy hol-i-day... Later we'll have some pumpkin pie, and do some car- rol-ing...
brenda lee		You will get a sen-ti-men-tal fee- ling when you hear... Voices singing "Let's be jolly, DECK the halls with boughs of holly"...
girl		He's not stopping!
guy		Hold on!
brenda lee		Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, Have a happy hol-i-day. Everyone's dancing mer-ri-ly in the New. Old. Fash-ioned. Wa-a-ay!
girl		... please... please... please...
guy		Any luck?
girl		 Can't... I can't get a signal here.
guy		I don't have a cell.
girl		How can you not have a cell?
guy		 How're you doing? You all right?
girl		I... yeah, I'm okay. Nothing broken... What about you?
guy		I don't know. Think I hit my head.
girl		Who?
guy		Asshole who ran us off the road.
girl		I don't know. I guess maybe he decided just to hit and run.
guy		So where are his tire tracks?
girl		In case you haven't noticed, it's coming down pretty hard.
guy		 Yeah, but you can still see our tracks.
girl		 This doesn't make any sense...
guy		 HELLO!
girl		What now?
guy		I guess we see how bad we're stuck.
girl		 Ready?
guy		 Ready!
guy		Hey, open up.
girl		Better get used to it, asshole.
guy		What the hell is wrong with you? What did I do?
girl		You drove us here, that's what you did!! What the hell did you think you were doing!?
guy		I thought I was driving you home.
girl		You're not driving me home because one, you don't live near my home and two, this piece of shit isn't driving anywhere. Now what are we doing here? Why did you get off the highway?
guy		I told you, this is a shortcut. Anyway, you were the one who said she was so bored on the highway. This used to be called `Scenic 606' because there's an amazing view of the valley-
girl		One, you've never been anywhere near here before so don't pretend you knew it's a shortcut, and two, there's an amazing view of shit BECAUSE IT'S PITCH BLACK OUT!
guy		Let me get this straight. You think I intentionally arranged for us get stranded out here?! It was an 
girl		 Maybe! Maybe he's like your Black Pete or something! Why the hell did you tell me that story anyway?
guy		You're crazy...
girl		 Anyway, I've got news for you... I got through to a friend's voicemail while you were supposedly unconscious. I'm sure she's called the cops by now.
guy		Would you listen to yourself? What kind of psycho do you think I am?
girl		Exactly.
guy		I'm gonna walk back to the gas station for help. You've got the heater and the radio, so you should be all right here. Though I really think you should consider coming with me.
girl		I bet you do.
guy		 Fine. Whatever. If you feel a draft and you want to patch this...
girl		 I bet you do.
guy		BUT IT'S MY CAR!!
radio psa		... The National Weather Service has issued a Winter Storm Warning for the entire Eastern Seaboard... Boxer shorts. Socks. Box of condoms. A copy of the Tibetan Book of the Dead. A cheap Radio Shack TELEPHONE wrapped in its cord. A CROW BAR, which she tosses up to the front seat.
girl		Hey!
guy		Hey.
girl		Stay away from me!
guy		Whoa! Take it easy. What's wrong?
girl		You! Everything! The guy-
guy		What guy?
girl		I don't know, it was weird. I saw some guy walking down the road.
guy		Where did he go?
girl		I don't know. Into the woods.
guy		Look. It's freezing out here. Let's just get in the car and you can tell me what happened...
girl		 What are you doing back so soon? What about hiking to the gas station?
guy		It was closed. I was going to leave a note, but I didn't... You know. Have anything to write with.
girl		But those places are supposed to stay open 24/7! Why wasn't it open?
guy		How the hell should I know?! Independent operator. Look, can we continue this conversation in the car, `cause I'm freezing my balls off standing out here.
girl		 I'm not getting into the car with you, you psycho!!!
guy		Fine. Whatever. I'm getting in. You're welcome to join me.  He turns and trudges back to the Oldsmobile, climbs in, and pulls the door shut after him. Leaving her there in the snowy road, clutching the scissors, her teeth chattering.  She stands there, shivering, looking very small and alone.  HOLD on her as she weighs her options: stay out here and freeze. Or risk seeking shelter with a stalker.  Not much of a choice.
guy		Relax.
girl		That's not right. The clock...
guy		 Huh? No, it's not. It should read...
girl		Hey.
guy		What?
girl		You're bleeding.
guy		It's nothing...
girl		It doesn't look like nothing.
guy		Scalp wounds bleed a lot. Head wounds in general. That's why, if you're ever in a bar fight, the thing to do is pick up a bottle and smash the other guy across the bridge of his nose. It'll make his eyes fill with blood and snot, and buy you enough time to run away.
girl		 That's really useful, thanks.
guy		 Place called Glens Falls...
girl		That's not in Delaware.
guy		No...
girl		That's, like, in the complete opposite direction!
guy		Yes...
girl		That's like twenty minutes from school!
guy		All right, all right, so I lied... Obviously.
girl		Why?
guy		I just thought you seemed cool. I don't have a line or a `game' or whatever the hell it's called. So when I saw a chance to get you alone for six uninterrupted hours, I took it.
girl		But how did you know where I lived?
guy		Asked around.
girl		Which explains how you found out I was from Delaware... But not how you knew I needed a ride home. I mean, I always fly. How could you possibly know that for, like the 
guy		 Forgive me for attempting a romantic gesture.
girl		Romantic? Try stalkerish.
guy		Not if things worked out between us...I would've told you everything eventually, and then it wouldn't be stalkerish. It would just be this sweet funny story we'd have.
girl		We?!
guy		Okay, you've made your point! I'm a creep who gets off on chauffeuring women under false pretenses. Can we drop this already?  Christ. I'm starving. You hungry?
girl		No. Oh, shit. I think I might've left it in the parking lot.
guy		What?!
girl		I'm sorry. It was an accident-
guy		Shit! I spent sixty bucks on this gourmet crap you like! Saint Andre's cheese and Carr's crackers and those stupid little French pickles, I forget what they're called-
girl		 Cornichons... I love cornichons.
guy		I know.
guy		I think I remember losing pack of Big Red down the back seat cushions last week...
girl		Asshole.
guy		 Let go, goddamnit...
girl		No!
guy		Give them to me!
girl		No!!!
guy		I need these.
guy		I still can't believe you left all our food in a stupid parking lot.
girl		Look, I'm sorry, okay? I'll write you a check for sixty bucks if it will make you get off my case. I don't know what else I can say.
guy		Let's just eat.
girl		What?
guy		You. Girls. Women. You seem cool at first.
girl		What the hell are you talking about?
guy		You should all come with a warning, like car mirrors: "Objects in belly shirts are flakier than they appear."
girl		You want to talk about fake? How about guys who pretend to be from Delaware to meet girls?
guy		How about we just stop talking altogether.
girl		That's perfect. Because now that I'm not some Nietzche-spouting sexbot, suddenly I'm not worth knowing. And who's fault is that?
guy		Well?
girl		Gas.
guy		Oh shit.
girl		Fuel tank must've been ruptured in the accident.
guy		Can you fix it?
girl		Not unless you have a welding rig in all that shit of yours. And even if you did, it wouldn't matter. We're out of gas.
guy		But we still have the battery, right?
girl		As long as we use it sparingly, it should last the night. Question is, will we?
guy		What do you mean?
girl		No engine... no heat.
guy		Layers...
girl		But I didn't bring anything.
guy		Ah, Jesus.
girl		 I'm sorry, but who could prepare for something like this?! I've got a complete winter wardrobe, it's just in Delaware... And no, that doesn't make me a flake!
guy		What's the matter?
girl		I'm freezing. I can't feel my toes.
guy		Me neither.
girl		Dream on.
guy		What?
girl		Gotta pee.
guy		 Why didn't you go before, when we were outside?
girl		Because it's freezing out. We're talking about an arctic air mass out of Canada.
guy		It's still freezing out-
girl		Yeah, but now I've got to go. Promise not to look.
guy		What?! What happened?!
girl		 - Did you see? - They were right here! -
guy		Why didn't you stop them?! Maybe they have a phone!
girl		Where'd they go?!
guy		There!
guy		Gotta - just a sec - catch my -
girl		 Maybe we should go back to the car.
guy		No! There must be a house or something. Keep going. I'll catch up.
girl		 Okay.
guy		Hello? Hello?
stranger		...please, officer, please don't...
girl		Wait!
stranger		...don't put me in the river...
girl		 Oh my god! Who did this to you?!
stranger		...please, officer, just take the booze and let me go...
guy		It's okay! You're okay! It's okay!
*		GIRL * Where were you?
*		GUY * I was looking for those guys. I * didn't see anyone-- *  * --there's nobody up there. What's * wrong, what's wrong? Did you see * someone?
girl		* I...there was another guy...
*		She starts to tell him, then stops, not sure if she believes * it herself.
*		Suddenly he looks down, notices her blackened mitten on her right hand. The palm is blistered and raw. He takes her hand gingerly, examines it. She winces in pain.
*		GUY What happened to you!? This looks like... oh jesus... like frostbite!
girl		I tried to... touch him...it burns.
*		GUY * Let's get back in the car...
girl		Where'd these come from?
guy		There's the ruins of an old house or something back in the woods.
girl		Oh... Give me the duct tape...
guy		Are you awake?
girl		 Uh-huh. D-Don't want to sleep.
guy		Why?
girl		Because I'm afraid I won't wake up. That's what they say happens. When 
guy		There are worse ways to go.
highway patrolman		Everything all right in there?
girl		Thank God! You don't know how glad we are to see you...
guy		...you won't believe what's been happening...
highway patrolman		Having car trouble, huh?
girl		Someone ran us off the road.
highway patrolman		There's no parking here.
guy		What are you talking about? We're not parking here. Didn't you hear what she said? Someone ran us off-
highway patrolman		...Of course I might be willing to let you off with a warning this time... if we can come to some sort of arrangement...
guy		What are you talking ab-
girl		 It's a shake-down. He's probably partners with the guy who ran us off the road. Wouldn't be surprised if he has a deal with the tow guy, too.
guy		You think this whole thing was a scam? Jesus, he could've killed us!
girl		 How much cash do you have on you?
girl		This is all we have.
highway patrolman		Some weather we're having...
girl		Yeah, it's really coming down.  So what do you say? How `bout a little Christmas spirit here?
highway patrolman		 You know, this is one bad stretch of road. All kinds of trouble going on up here: Kids drag racing. Niggers hauling booze across the state lines. Lady drivers breaking down, no-one ever hears from them again...
girl		We just want to get out of here, so if you could just-
highway patrolman		Let me tell you, I've seen a lot of fatalities on this road...
girl		 I think maybe I just want to go back-
highway patrolman		YOU'RE NOT GOING ANYWHERE!
girl		No...
highway patrolman		Get in the damn patrol car...
girl		 Please... just let us go...
highway patrolman		Hurry up...we've got an audience...
girl		 But we didn't do anything! Please! We won't tell anybody if you let us-
girl		 What just... out there...?
guy		I don't know.
girl		 But it did happen, right? Or not...
guy		Do it.
girl		Frostbite, second and third-degree.
guy		How do you know? You take a first aid course or something?
girl		Ski camp, seventh grade...  Don't make fun. What else do you have going on when you're thirteen?
guy		 I'm kinda not in the mood anymore.
girl		We have to rewarm your hands. You have ice crystals in your blood. If we don't get circulation restored you could lose your fingers.
guy		What do you mean? You were there.
girl		I know, but who was he? Where'd he go? It's like one minute there's a, a gun to my head and the next all the lights go out and he's gone, like a, like a-
guy		Ghost.
girl		No.
guy		Yes. And the old guys we chased-
girl		No.
guy		What then? How do you explain-
girl		I don't know! This is crazy! I can't be having this conversation.
guy		 You're having it.
girl		I don't want to!
guy		You think I do?! Jesus. I'm just as freaked by what's happening as you. But we have to deal with it, `cause like it or not, it is happening...
girl		Then how do we make it stop?
guy		I don't know. They don't cover this
girl		 What about that book, in the back?
guy		What book?
girl		Something Book of the Dead.
guy		Tibetan. It's not a How-to manual. It's an 8th century Buddhist guide on death and dying.
girl		 God. Why is this happening to us?
guy		 I can feel your stomach rumbling.
girl		I know. God, I'd give anything for some of those Carr's crackers right now...
guy		Um, let's see. Duck liver pat with truffles.
girl		Oh no...
guy		Some olives, the normal kind and also some of the little shrivelled black ones. A bottle of white wine...
girl		Mmmmm...
guy		And for dessert, anisette biscotti and a thermos of espresso.
girl		 Ohhhh...
guy		Can't be too much longer until dawn. Someone's bound to come along then. A snowplow or something. Right?
girl		How are your hands?
guy		Starting to burn...
girl		That's good. It means the circulation's coming back.
guy		 Yeah, but I mean really burn...
girl		Hang on. I think I have a few Tylenol-with-codeine in my purse.
guy		What's taking so long, nurse -
girl		I just-
guy		Priests!
girl		"... Hearing the crash on nearby Route 606, they braved inclement weather to administer Last Rights..."
guy		That must be what we saw them doing!
girl		"... also killed was State Highway Patrolman... continued on page seven."
guy		 You got that Tylenol?
girl		Coming.
guy		 Okay.
girl		I'll go first. You get some sleep.
brenda lee		Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, at the Christ-mas par-ty hop. She freezes.
guy		Thank god! You were having some kind of seizure or someth-
brenda lee		You will get a sen-ti-men-tal fee- ling when you hear... Voices singing "Let's be jolly, DECK the halls with boughs of holly"... The car's rear window brightens with APPROACHING HEADLIGHTS of a highway patrol car, it's strobe light flooding the Oldsmobile's interior with RED.
girl		What's happening!?
guy		It's him! Hurry! Help me!
brenda lee		Rockin' around, the Christmas tree, Have a happy hol-i-day... Our guy claps hands over his ears so he can't hear the sound of the cop's rage as he attacks the car, fury growing and growing until it's indistinguishable from the HOWLING wind outside.
girl		What happened?
guy		I think... he's gone. I guess when he couldn't get in he gave up.  I told you these `88 Olds were built like tanks!
girl		Shhh! How do you know it's not a trick! He could still be out there waiting-
guy		He's not! Listen!
girl		But what if he comes back..?
guy		We just have to stay in the car until morning. Then we'll be safe. That can't be more than, like, a few more hours... Someone's bound to come along once the sun comes up... Someone human I mean. Think you can hold on until then?
girl		 What if, you know. We have to pee?
guy		We can use the empty water bottles. From this point on, the back seat is a co-ed bathroom. Sound like a plan?
girl		I don't want to sleep.  He nods, understanding.  So they just hunker down in the front seat, staring at the snow covered windshield, and start the long wait to morning.
girl		I gotta pee...
guy		Again?!
girl		Stop talking.
guy		You should ask Santa to bring you a bigger bladder.
girl		I'm serious! It's hard enough doing this in front of you.
guy		What, are you one of those people who can't pee with the bathroom door open?
girl		No. But it's not something I usually do until much later in a relationship...
guy		 No big deal. Just your average day in the NHL...
girl		How long have you known?
guy		Since I tried hiking back to the gas station. You were right, I never got anywhere near it. I 
girl		Why didn't you tell me?
guy		I didn't want to scare you-
girl		We've got to get you some help now. You won't make it to morning. I'm going to try and hike back to the gas station-
guy		How far do you think you'd get out there before running into Mr. Freeze?
girl		I'm not going to just sit here and watch you die!
guy		What are you looking at?
girl		Telephone poles. They must have a junction box or something to test the lines ... There! See that one?
guy		So?
girl		So maybe there's some way I can... I don't know... jack into it or something. Try and call for help.
guy		You want to climb a telephone pole?
girl		Of course I don't want to! But it's got rungs. Can't be any harder than the climbing wall at my gym. Big fat repair guys do it all the time, right? Right?
guy		But you're forgetting one thing...
girl		What?
guy		He's out there.
girl		The song! That old Christmas song on the radio. It always comes on just before he shows up...
guy		 I've been thinking...
girl		What about?
guy		Eternal recurrence. Maybe it wouldn't be so bad.
girl		What wouldn't?
guy		Repeating this life. Over and over. Exactly the same each time.
girl		Even the last twenty-four hours?
guy		Know what I'd do different? Next time I'd just to walk up to you after class... and say "Hey."
girl		 You should. Definitely. Do that.
guy		 Don't let me die out here-
radio psa		The State Weather Bureau has issued an extreme cold warning...
girl		No!!!
operator		 Nine-one-one emergency response.
girl		Thank god! Hi! Hello! We need help!
operator		 What's that? Can you repeat-
girl		We're on highway 606! Oh god, please hurry! We need help! My friend is hurt-
operator		Can you repeat your-
girl		Hello? Hello?  The connection SPARKS and she feels a small shock that makes her drop the phone. When she retrieves it and holds it back to her ear the line is DEAD.  No way of knowing if her message got through.  It's a moment of such soul-crushing despair she shuts her eyes and leans her head against the pole, as if wanting to just quietly die up here thirty feet above the earth.
girl		 - I did it - got through - but I don't know how much she understood - the operator I mean -
girl		 Sorry... sorry... I'm sorry...
snowplow driver		You kids okay?
snowplow driver		 Dispatch, come in...
snowplow driver		I'm out at the site of that reported accident on 606. One of them didn't make it. I'm taking the other directly to the trauma unit in Hadleyville.
snowplow driver		Been some real bad accidents on this road over the years. When I was growing up, there was a family from New York City found out here froze solid-
snowplow driver		... fire department had to hose them down with hot water for two hours to thaw them out. I remember back in high school there was a stupid rumor going around if you went driving out here on moonless nights and looked up in your rearview, you might see the dead baby in your backseat ...
girl		What about those ruins up on the hill? The retirement home for old priests?
snowplow driver		Tragic story. Winter of `61 they were all found froze to death in their beds...
snowplow driver		Must've been a pilot on the boiler went out, or something...
girl		It's not Tom...
snowplow driver		Doesn't this stupid son of a gun realize we're bigger than him?! No way he's going to win this fight!
snowplow driver		Hang on, officer, I'm coming...
girl		No!!!
girl		 Wait! Don't go down there! Stop!
snowplow driver		Hang on, officer! We'll get you out!
girl		No!!! Don't go near it!!!
snowplow driver		What!!? We have to get him out of there...
girl		Doesn't matter! He's already dead!
snowplow driver		What the hell are you talking about?
highway patrolman		Should've known you vultures would turn up...
snowplow driver		Try not to move, officer, you might have a neck injury.
highway patrolman		What are you waiting for, a letter from the Bishop?
girl		Come on. We can go now. It's over.
girl		 Come on, come on!
guy		Get away from her, you bastard!
cellphone		 Ding-da-da DING, da-DING da-DING... Her eyes widen in terror. She fumbles out the cellphone. Stabs the "off" button with her thumb.
girl		 Wait!
guy's ghost		...I would've told you everything eventually...
girl		I know.
guy's ghost		...then it wouldn't be stalkerish.
girl		 I know!
guy's ghost		... It would just be this sweet funny story we'd have...
****Dialogues from script :Withnail_and_I.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Witness.txt****

witness		 "WITNESS"  by  Earl W. Wallace  William Kelley  Pamela Wallace
preacher		...a brother has been called home. God has spoken through the death of our neighbor, Jacob Lapp...
preacher		...husband of Rachel, father to Samuel, son of Eli.  His chair is empty, his bed is empty, his voice will be heard no more. He was needed in our presence, but God needs such men, too. That one should be taken so suddenly. Treat sorrow. Still, we would not wish him back. Rather we should prepare ourselves to follow him.
stoltzfus		Lapp was a good farmer. None better.
beiler		But not the man to buy a horse for you.  Hochstetler, wasn't it your father sold him that horse with a ruptured testicle?
tom		 Told him it was a bee sting made him limp that way.
hochstetler		 That horse had one good ball. That's all it takes.
hochstetler		I was sorry to hear about Jacob. Let us hope he walks close with God.
rachel		I'm sure he does, Daniel.
rachel		Daniel?
hochstetler		I... I was at the feed store. And I saw your horse, so...
hochstetler		You will come back soon?
samuel		Quickly, Mother Quickly!
eli		You be careful out among them English.
rachel		I need time, Daniel.
samuel		Look, Mama...!
rachel		I see, darling.
samuel		Is this where we're going?
rachel		Of course not. We're going to Baltimore. It's much nicer in Baltimore.
rachel		We have a ticket to Baltimore. Where is that train, please?
ticket seller		Delayed three hours. You'll hear an announcement when it's time to board.
partner		Jesus...
partner		Will you come on, for Christ's sakes!
book		You found the body?
custodian		Uh uh. Not me, daddy, I just reported it. It was the kid.
book		What kid?
custodian		How'n hell do I know what kid? The kid in the funny black threads.
book		Hi, kid.
rachel		What do you want of my son?
book		I'm a police officer. I'm going to have to talk to the boy. What's his name?
rachel		Samuel. Samuel Lapp.  But what happened here is none of his affair. My sister is expecting me... our train is leaving soon.
book		There'll be another train.  The man who was killed tonight was a policeman, Sam. It's my job to find out who did it. I want you to tell me everything you saw when you went in there.
samuel		 I saw him.
book		Who'd you see?
book		Who'd you see, Sam? The man on the floor?
samuel		No... I saw the man who killed him.
book		Anybody know about this?
carter		I didn't even know about it.
book		 Okay, Sam. Can you tell me what he looked like?
samuel		 He was... like him.
book		 Black... I understand. What else,Sam?
samuel		Not Zwartich, like him
book		Try that one again, Sam
rachel		May I talk to you?
rachel		Zwartich. It's the way we say... dwarf.  Not like him... very big.
donahue		 And I want to talk to you, Captain.
book		All right, talk.
donahue		This is homicide  not Internal Affairs! So why are you behaving like you own this case?
book		We were running Zenovitch... That's all I can tell you. But I want it, Terry.  I've got a call into Schaeffer.
samuel		 Momma... are they angry with us.
rachel		 No... No. It is just the English way.
donahue		You ought to think about coming back to Homicide, Johnny... Stick with Internal Affairs and you're not gonna have any friends left.
book		 I'll buy a dog.
book		Go get a cup of coffee, Stan.
schaeffer		How reliable is this kid?
book		Oh, he's good.
schaeffer		Amish.
book		Yeah.
schaeffer		What have you got?
book		Zenovitch was about to deliver a list of names tonight  street chemists... the guys processing this P2P into speed.
schaeffer		So one of them got to him.
book		Maybe.
schaeffer		You know who?
book		Maybe.
schaeffer		You're still convinced there's a link to the department?
book		If there isn't I've just wasted the last six months.
schaeffer		That's the problem. We need results. The press is driving us crazy over this P2P thing. Calling us the 'speed capitol of the country'. You know the sort of thing. It's getting political. The Commissioner's getting very uneasy.
book		The Amish boy saw him, Paul. I'll make it, but Set Donahue and the Homicide Department off my back or they'll blow the whole thing.
schaeffer		When word gets out that Zenovitch was a cop, all hell will break lose. You've got 24 hours. That's all I can give you. 24 hours on your own. After that the case and the witness go back to the Homicide Department.
schaeffer		 Tell you what... why don't you and that blonde  what's-her-name  come over for dinner Sunday. How 'bout that.
book		What's-her-name moved to Buffalo.
schaeffer		 I'll do something for Zenovich's wife.
carter		I got there late, John.
book		Let's just find Coalmine.  Listen, Zenovich made a mistake. You didn't let anybody down. It happens
carter		 It won't happen again.
rachel		Where are you taking us?
book		We're looking for a suspect. We've reason to believe he's still in the area.
rachel		You have no right to keep us here.
book		Yes I do. Your son is a material witness to a homicide.
rachel		You don't understand, we have nothing to do with your laws!
book		Doesn't surprise me. I meet a lot of people like that.
rachel		It's not a joke.
book		You're right. It's not a joke. Listen, I know a little about the Amish. I know this has to be an ordeal for you; and I'm really sorry you an Samuel got involved.
book		What was that?
rachel		He wants to know who you are. Your name. I told him we don't need to know anything about you.
book		Book. John Book
book		Sammy, where's Coalmine?
sammy		What you got there, the Salvation Army?
book		Coalmine.
sammy		Try "Happy Valley".
book		Put some light on him.
book		 Look at him.
rachel		John Book, you listen to me! I will have no further part in this, nor will my son! As God stands between us!
doorman		Ma'am?
rachel		No! We do not stay in hotels.
elaine		How could you do this to me tonight? I told you I had company
book		Sorry. It's important.
book		Where's Timmy and Buck?
elaine		Upstairs, asleep. Where'd you think?
book		You've got a man here and the kids are upstairs?
elaine		That's none of your goddamn business! So keep your goddamn holier-than- thou mouth shut!  Anyway, they like Fred.
book		Oh sure, Fred.
elaine		Who are these orphans, anyway?
book		They're Amish.
elaine		Everything okay?
rachel		Yes, thank you very much.
elaine		 John said you're Amish.
rachel		Yes.
elaine		 Oh.
samuel		I don't want to stay here.
rachel		They are English. They don't understand.
samuel		I wish dawdie was with us.
rachel		 I know. Sleep now, Liebchen.
fred		Wrong door, kid.
elaine		 Jesus...
rachel		Good morning.
elaine		 You didn't have to...
rachel		I wanted to. you were kind to take us in last night.  Anyway, I needed something to do. I was so angry with your brother. He's so... agaanisish!
elaine		Aganishish? Yeah, that sounds like John.
rachel		Just a minute. I'll pour you some coffee.
elaine		You're not carrying a bullwhip... how'd you manage to put my kids to work?
rachel		 Children like to help... they only need to be kept after a little bit.
elaine		Oh, is that so?  No offense, lady, but I'm not so sure I like the idea of your coming in here and turning the place upside down!
rachel		Please, I didn't mean...
elaine		I know exactly what you meant! Listen, maybe I'm not a world-class housefrau, but maybe I don't have time to polish the goddamn china and keep after the kids!  It's none of your business, but I don't happen to have a man around here full time. So I sell cosmetics in a goddamn drugstore and sometimes I can even pay the rent on time! So maybe I'm not Mary Poppins, but maybe I don't need to have it jammed down my throat like this.
elaine		There is that clean enough for you?
fred		Jesus, Elaine... Somebody die and leave you a broom?
elaine		 Go to hell, Fred!
fred		What's bugging her?
rachel		I brought your coffee.
rachel		I'm sorry. I didn't mean it that way.
elaine		It's okay.  Look, I shouldn't have blown my top. It's like... somehow... I've let everything get away from me. And you sort of made me face it.
elaine		What's so funny?
rachel		Fred. The way he looked when you screamed at him.
elaine		 God, Fred...
rachel		At home you'd never hear a woman scream at a man that way.
elaine		No? Why not?
rachel		You just wouldn't. It's not the Amish way.  But I think it would have done me good if I could have screamed at your brother last night.
elaine		Listen, I don't know what's going on or how you got mixed up with him, but don't you let that self-righteous son of a bitch push you around, okay?
rachel		Okay.
book		Now what's the problem?
rachel		The problem is I don't happen to think my son should be spending all his time with a man who carried a gun under his coat and goes around whacking people.
book		Whacking?
rachel		 Yes. And I also want to leave this city.
book		Believe me, I'm trying to get this over with as fast as I can. But Samuel will probably have to come back and testify.
rachel		We do not go into your courts.
book		People who don't go into our courts when they're told to sometimes go directly into our jail.
book		Look, I'm genuinely sorry...
rachel		 They don't seem to like you very much.
book		They kid a lot.
rachel		 I would not be too sure.
rachel		He says you look very tired. I thought the same thing.
rachel		But not a good tired.
book		What's a 'good' tired. Tired is tired.
book		 Just wanted to see if you were on your toes.
rachel		Your sister said you don't have a family?
book		No.
rachel		She thinks you should get married and have children of your own. Instead of trying to be a father to hers. Except she thinks you're afraid of the responsibility.
book		Oh? Anything else?
rachel		Oh yes. She thinks you like policing because you think you're right about everything. And you're the only one who can do anything. And that when you drink a lot of beer you say things like none of the other police would know a crook from a... um... bag of elbows.
rachel		I think that's what she said.
rachel		Good appetite.
book		Afternoon, gentlemen. I'd like you to meet Samuel Lapp. We'd like a little help.
kaman		There's a Sgt. Carter on the phone for you.
kaman		And, Captain, don't want to rush you, but I'm gonna need these files back in a half hour. We got a lot of work to do round here.
rachel		Why don't you arrest that man? Are you protecting him because policeman?
book		 I'll make an arrest when I know everybody involved.
rachel		But why would they murder...
book		Because  somehow  they knew I was getting close.  And they can get away with it because they're cops.
rachel		 I'm afraid. I'm afraid for Samuel. I want to go home.
book		You'll be safe. You don't have to worry.
book		Look, they're thinking as long as they keep the killer out of Samuel's way, we can't make an I.D. There's no way they can know Samuel saw that photograph, so he's safe.
book		I mean it. You will be safe.
rachel		Oh yes! Of Course. Why shouldn't we feel safe in a city where the police are so busy killing each other!
book		It was McElroy, Paul.
book		Last guy I would have figured. But he's part of it.
schaeffer		I hope you don't have any doubts about that.
book		If I did, I'd have kept my mouth shut...  And now the stuff is worth five-grand a pint and there are a lot of pints in a fifty-five gallon drum.
schaeffer		 Who else knows?
book		Just us.
schaeffer		 Okay, what are you going to need to clean it up
book		More people... Gotta pick up where Zenovich left off. People from outside the department.
schaeffer		 I hate this shit, Johnny. You cut their balls off for me. I'm counting on you.
schaeffer		What's your first move?
book		 A hot shower... I haven't changed clothes in two days.
man		Hey, buddy, what's the score? Little too much to drink?
man		Goddamn, buddy. You better get to a hospital!  Here; I'll give you a hand.
book		No! No hospital!
wife		Let him alone, Henry! If he wants to die in the street, that's his business!
man		Shut up, Romona! Will ya look at that blood?
man		Come on, buddy... you're gonna bleed to death!
man		Shit!
wife		 I told you, Henry!
carter		Yeah...
book		Listen carefully, I wrote the Amish woman's name and address on my desk calendar, I want you to lose it for me, Now. Tonight.
carter		What the hell are you talking about? What's happening.
book		Nothing. I'm not going to be around for a while. I'll call you when I can.
carter		 Johnny, what the fuck?
book		 Listen to me  Schaeffer's part of it. Maybe at the top of it.
book		Yeah... I can put it all together when I get back, 'Til then, you know nothing, understand? Business as usual...
carter		 I hear you.
book		 Good. Take care of that woman's name for me. And watch your ass.
elaine		It's John. He says you have to leave now. He says it's urgent.
elaine		John, I don't understand any of this.
elaine		John, why?...
book		 Just do it!
rachel		Where are you taking us now?
book		Home.
rachel		You couldn't wait until morning?
rachel		 What happened?
rachel		You said we would be safe in Philadelphia.
book		I was wrong.
rachel		Kinner un Narre... ["Kinner un Narre saage die Waahret" "Children and fools say the truth" Amish expressions]
rachel		Stay for awhile. Rest. I'll make coffee and breakfast.
book		I can't.
rachel		What about Samuel? Will you come back to take him to trial?
book		 There isn't going to be one.
eli		Who was that man?
rachel		His name is John Book.
samuel		Momma  look.
rachel		But John... why didn't you go to a hospital?
book		No, no doctor...
rachel		 But why?
book		Gunshot... they'll file reports... they'll find me.
rachel		But
book		And when they find me, they'll find your boy!
eli		Is the English dead?
rachel		No...
eli		Looks dead...
eli		Stoltzfus is coming.
eli		That has no place in this house.
rachel		I know.
rachel		It will go when he goes.
rachel		Thank you for coming, Stoltzfus.
stoltzfus		That's the English is it?
stoltzfus		This man should be treated in town.  The bullet entered there... and came out there. But there is the danger of infection, and he has lost a great deal of blood.
rachel		Go help Levi with the car, Samuel.
rachel		No, he must stay here.
eli		Didn't you hear Stoltzfus? What if he dies? Then the sheriff will come. They'll say we broke their laws
rachel		We'll pray that he doesn't die! But if he does, then we'll find a way so no one knows!
eli		Rachel, this is a man's life, we hold it in our hands.
rachel		I know God help me, I know that, Eli.  But I tell you that if he's found here, the people who did this to him will come for Samuel.
rachel		What else can we do?
stoltzfus		Make a poultice... three parts milk, two parts linseed oil... for the infection.
rachel		Thank you.
stoltzfus		Lapp, I'll have to speak with the diener on this matter.
eli		 As you see fit, Stoltzfus.
rachel		It's all right! You have got to lie still.
rachel		 Yes, much better...
schaeffer		Looks like we're going to need some help from you folks down there.
undersheriff		...want to help any way we can, Chief, but you got to understand we've got upwards of seven thousand Amish over here.
schaeffer		I've got the woman's name, Sheriff. Lapp. Rachel Lapp. That should simplify your work.
undersheriff		How about an address?
schaeffer		Ah... no.
undersheriff		 Maybe a road or route number?
schaeffer		Sorry.
undersheriff		Problem is, Chief, 'bout every third Amishman around here is named Lapp. That or Yoder. Or Hochstetler.  Chief, if the Amish have taken your man in, I wouldn't want to hang from a rope until you find him.
schaeffer		Thank you, Sheriff. It's been an education.
tschantz		Well, Stoltzfus, another Lazarus to your credit.
stoltzfus		He was touched by God's hand.
rachel		Hello.
book		 Who are they?
rachel		The leadership of our district... the diener. Bishop Tschantz is the one with no hair on top. They decided to come and see you for themselves. Except Stoltzfus, of course. He came the first day. I think he saved your life.
book		Can I have something to drink?
book		Does anybody know I'm here?
rachel		Only the elders.
book		How long?
rachel		What?
book		How long have I been here?
rachel		Two days.
book		 Listen, thank you. Thanks for everything. But I've got to go.
rachel		 But you can't.
rachel		See. Anyway, you don't have any clothes on. And besides that, Bishop Tschantz wants to talk to you when you feel better.
stoltzfus		Rest, Mr. Book. That's the ticket. And drink my of my tea.
book		Tell him his tea stinks.
rachel		 You tell him. When you're able.
rachel		 We're all very happy that you're going to live, John Book. We didn't quite know what we were going to do with you if you died.
hershberger		...but a gunshot wound. Very serious.
tschantz		It is not the first time we have done this. In the Englischer war of the revolution, old Elmer Miller's grandfather took in gunshot English soldiers.  Saved them, too.
erb		Still, he should be among his own people.
rachel		He'll leave as soon as he is able. He already wants to go.
hershberger		How long will that be, Stoltzfus?
stoltzfus		 A month. Maybe less. With God's healing love.
elaine		 Did you find him?
schaeffer		Not yet.
elaine		Then go away, you bastard.
schaeffer		Elaine, I've come to apologize for Lt. McElroy. He overstated the department's position.
elaine		 He accused John of taking kickbacks. And you know  anybody who knows John  knows that's a goddamn lie!
schaeffer		 Of course, Elaine. But as long as there's any question, better Johnny should come back and clear his name.
elaine		 Better you should get off my front porch before I get my mace!
schaeffer		Elaine, I don't want to have to take you in for questioning. You've got his car, you were the last to see him
elaine		 I don't know where he is.
schaeffer		But... if you had to guess?
mcelroy		She say where he is?
schaeffer		I don't think she knows.
schaeffer		What about Carter?
mcelroy		Tight. But I'm working on him.
schaeffer		Lean on him.
book		Give me that.
book		Come here.
book		You ever handle a pistol like this, Samuel?
samuel		 No pistol. Ever.
book		Tell you what  I'm going to let you handle this one. But only if you promise not to say anything to your momma. I've got a feeling she wouldn't understand.
samuel		 Okay, Mr. Book.
book		Call me John.
book		You don't want to point that at people you just started calling by their first name.
rachel		 Samuel!
rachel		Wait for me downstairs.
rachel		John Book, I would appreciate it if, during the time you are with us, you would have as little to do with Samuel as possible.
book		Nobody meant any harm. The boy was curious. I unloaded the gun -
rachel		It's not the gun. Don't you understand... It's you. What you stand for.  That is not for Samuel.
rachel		Please, it has nothing to do with you personally.
book		Put it up someplace Samuel can't get it.
book		Friends?
eli		The gun  that gun of the hand  is for the taking of human life. Would you kill another man? Eh?
eli		What you take into your hands, you take into your heart.
samuel		I would only kill a bad man.
eli		Only a bad man. I see. And you know these bad men on sight? You are able to look into their hearts and see this badness?
samuel		I can see what they do.
samuel		I have seen it.
eli		And having seen, you would become one of them?  Don't you see...? The hand leads the arm leads the shoulder leads the head... leads the heart. The one goes into the other into the other into the other... And you have changed, and gone amongst them...
eli		"Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord!"
eli		 "And touch not the unclean thing!"
rachel		Enjoying your reading?
book		Very interesting. I'm learning a lot about manure.  What's that?
rachel		Your shirt and jacket are still stained with blood. I have them soaking.You can wear these.
book		Your husband's?
rachel		Yes. It's good that someone can have the use of them. Besides, in your clothes you'd stand out to strangers.
rachel		I should tell you these do not have buttons.  See? Hooks and eyes.
book		Something wrong with buttons?
rachel		Buttons are Hochmut.
book		Hochmut?
rachel		Vain. Proud. Such a person is Hochmutsnarr. He is not plain.
book		 Anything against zippers?
rachel		 You make fun of me. Like the tourists. Driving by all the time. Some even come into the yard. Very rude. They seem to think we are quaint.
book		Quaint? Can't imagine why.
book		Where's the nearest telephone?
rachel		Telephone? The Gunthers across the valley. They're Mennonite. They have cars and refrigerators and telephones in the houses even.
book		No. I'd want a public phone.
rachel		Well... the store at Saltzburg...  But you won't be going to Saltzburg for a while.
book		I'm going this morning.
rachel		But Stoltzfus said...
book		 I know what he said.
rachel		You can go with Eli. He's taking Samuel to school. But you'll have to hurry.
book		Rachel.
book		Thanks.
eli		Hurry up now, John Book!
rachel		You'd better go.
book		My... eh... gun?
book		The... bullets?
rachel		Oh. The bullets.
book		 Not much good without them.
carter		Yeah?
book		It's me.
carter		Johnny! Where the hell have you been?
book		Never mind. I'm coming in to take care of business. How hot am I?
carter		 Too hot. Don't do it. Don't come in.
book		I'm coming.
carter		Listen, Johnny, don't do anything stupid. You couldn't get within a mile of Schaeffer right now. So stay put... Stay in touch  I'll let you know when maybe it makes sense.
carter		 You hear me?
book		 I hear you. I'll stay in touch.
carter		That's more like it.  Where are you at, anyway?
carter		 Say again?
eli		If you are well enough to do that thing, you can do work for me.
book		Sure, I'm sorry. Hope you don't mind me plugging in to your battery. Mine's dead... How can I help? What can I do?
eli		Maybe milking.
book		 Milking?
eli		Cows. You know, cows?
book		I've seen pictures.
eli		Good, you start tomorrow.
eli		 Veck oufl. Time for milking.
eli		Good, firm twist and pull, eh?  Right. Now you try it.
eli		Didn't you hear me, Book? Pull! You never had your hands on a teat before?
book		 Not one this big.
book		 Careful, son
samuel		That's Luke. He doesn't like strangers.
book		 You don't say.
eli		Have to teach you mules, too, I guess.
hochstetler		Good morning. Book, is it? You are the Yankee they talk about?
book		I thought I was the English.
hochstetler		English, Yankee. It's the same. My name is Daniel. Daniel Hochstetler.  Very plain.
hochstetler		I came to see Rachel Lapp.
book		Try the house.
hochstetler		 You bet. you take care of yourself.
book		Pigs.
rachel		Eli is a fine carpenter. Best in the district. He and his father built the big house themselves forty years ago.
book		Oh?  What happened to Hochstetler?
rachel		We had some lemonade and he left.
book		A real fireball.
rachel		You know carpentry?
book		I did some carpentry summers when I was going to school.
rachel		What else can you do?
book		 I can whack people. I'm hell at whacking.
rachel		Whacking is not of much use on a farm.
book		Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate job.
rachel		I'm sorry. I'm sure it is.
rachel		Tonight I'll let out those trousers for you.
eli		Eat up, Book. What's the matter with your appetite?
book		Guess I'm not used to so much.
eli		 Not used to hard work. That's what makes an appetite.
rachel		Eli, John is a carpenter.  As well as being a fine policeman.
eli		Eh? Well then, maybe he can go to Zook's barn-raising, eh? See how good a carpenter.
book		Sure.
rachel		But... You may not be well enough.
book		I'll drink some more of Stoltzfus' tea.
book		Hi...
rachel		 When will you be going?
book		Not long... A few days.
book		You like it... Don't you?
rachel		No... You just stop
book		 Next thing you know you'll be off drinking beer and racing motorcycles.
eli		Rachel!
eli		 What is this? This Myusick?
book		It's not her fault. I
eli		 How can this be? How can you do such a thing? Is this plain? Is this the ordnung?
rachel		I have done nothing against the ordnung.
eli		 Eh? Nothing? Rachel, you bring this man to our house. With his gun of the hand. You bring fear to this house. Fear of English with guns coming after. You bring blood and whispers of more blood. Now English music... and you are dancing to English music! And you call this nothing?
rachel		I have committed no sin.
eli		 Don't you know there has been talk? Talk about you, not him. Talk about going to the Bishop. About having you... shunned!
rachel		That is idle talk.
eli		 Rachel, good Rachel, you must not go too far! Dear child!
rachel		I am not a child.
eli		 You are acting like one!
rachel		I will be the judge of that.
eli		 No! They will be the judge of that! And so will I... if you shame me!
rachel		 You shame yourself.
schaeffer		You know where he is.
carter		Wrong.
schaeffer		You'd lie to protect him.
carter		 Probably.
schaeffer		You admit you're lying?
carter		 I admit I don't know where he is.
schaeffer		You're the first one he'll contact.
carter		 He's got my number.
schaeffer		It's funny. I know he's hiding somewhere with the Amish, I know it.  Can you imagine John Book at a prayer meeting? Our John Book?
schaeffer		Either you're a member of the club or you aren't, Elton.  Tell me what you know...
carter		What I know, Paul, is...  He's going to take you out...
book		All right, you nasty son of a bitch, we're going to be friends whether you like it or not.
book		See... Sugar. You like sugar, don't you for Christ's sake?
rachel		 Well...
book		Won him over just like that.
rachel		I see.  Eli is ready to go to Zook's.
book		Later.
eli		Wait here 'til I find a gang you can work with.
hochstetler		Book! Good to see you!
hochstetler		Eli says you're a carpenter, Book.
book		It's been a while.
hochstetler		No matter. Come with me. We can always use a good carpenter.
rachel		Good luck.
hochstetler		Your hole is healed, then?
book		 Pretty much.
hochstetler		Good. Then you can go home.
rachel		All of them charitable, I'm sure.
hochstetler		Nail it!
book		Yes, sir.
hochstetler		We admire our work!
book		Hey, Sam...
samuel		...I want to say a thing.
book		 What's that, Sam?
book		Same to you, Sam.
book		Sam?
book		Last night.
book		If... we'd made love, then, I couldn't leave.
book		Maybe I ought to learn to drive this thing.
book		 Pick myself up another useful skill.
rachel		Samuel, who is that?
samuel		It looks like Hochstetler's mare.
book		 Uh oh, they're leaving us behind.
tourist lady		Could I... ah, you know?
book		 Lady, if you take my picture, I'll rip your brassiere off and strangle you with it.
book		Lieutenant Elton Carter, please.
voice		Are you a member of the family?
book		What? I'm a friend of his.
voice		I'm sorry. Last night Sergeant Carter was killed in the line of duty...
schaeffer		I'll take it in the study.
schaeffer		You can hang up, dear.
book		You made a mistake, Paul. You shouldn't have taken Elton out.
schaeffer		 How bad did Mac get you? We figured pretty bad.
book		I'm fine. I'm going to live a long time. That's what I called to tell you.
schaeffer		 Johnny
book		You might want to pass it along to Mac.
schaeffer		 Listen to me, Johnny. Come in! You're out there all alone... We're getting close... real close... Maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in
book		I've already got something worked out.  Be seeing you.
rachel		Do nothing. This happens from time to time.
rachel		It's not our way, John. We'll have nothing to do with violence! John!
youth		Here comes another one!
book		 You're making a mistake.
hochstetler		Everything is all right, John.
book		 Pick up the hat.
local man		Never seen anything like that in all my years.
rachel		 He's from... Ohio... My cousin.
local man		We'll, them Ohio Amish sure must be different.  Our Lancaster brethren, they just don't have that kind of fight in them.
rachel		John, lost control of himself. He... will be repentant.
local man		 You're Rachel Lapp, aren't you?
rachel		Yes. Samuel! We're going.
second man		Kid's nose is broken!
local man		We'll take him up the hospital. Good- day to you, Mrs. Lapp.  This ain't good for the tourist trade, you know! You tell that to your Ohio cousin!
rachel		You should not bother with that birdhouse.  If you're leaving tomorrow.
book		I'm leaving tonight.  I'm going to need my clothes. And my gun.
rachel		There was a time when I thought you might have stayed.
book		 There was.
rachel		There was a time when I would have welcomed it.
book		 I know.
rachel		 I was being foolish?
book		No.  I was being unrealistic. Even thinking about living this life.
rachel		You're so sure of that?
book		Aren't you? After today?
rachel		 Just as I could live yours!
book		 Oh, come on, Rachel. No way.
rachel		There is always a way! But you are such a... a Glotzkopp you cannot see! You'd rather go back to that city! To nothing! No woman! No children! No land!
book		 Land! Are you crazy? I'm no Amishman and I'm no farmer! I'm a cop. That's what I know and that's what I do!
rachel		What you do is take vengeance! Which is a sin against heaven!
book		That's your way, not mine.
rachel		That's God's way!
book		Well in the City of Philadelphia, God needs a little help!
rachel		I could never love a man who was so... little.
rachel		The other night... when you saw me after my bath... I... I tried to look as I thought you would want a woman to look.  I am sorry... that I did not.
rachel		Eli, would you see Samuel to bed?
sheriff		There... White Oak Road a couple of miles before it ties into two-twenty- two. Got it?
schaeffer		Got it. We owe you one, Sheriff.
sheriff		My man Holmes here put it together. Fine officer, Chief. He spoke to the doctor at the hospital.
schaeffer		Undersheriff Holmes and I have talked on the phone.  Good work.
undersheriff		Sure you don't want us to post some backup units?
schaeffer		If we need any help, we'll give you a shout. I'd like to slip in there quiet, then get out before we attract any attention.
holmes		Maybe I'll take a drive over that way.
sheriff		Let 'em be. It's their dirty laundry.
mcelroy		Weird, man. No fuckin' electricity. What do you figure they plug all their shit into?
schaeffer		They don't have any shit.
schaeffer		 Check out the rest of the house.
schaeffer		We're police officers. We're looking for a fugitive, John Book. He's living here?
eli		I have nothing to say to you. Get out of my house!
schaeffer		You speak English. Good. Now listen
rachel		 No, you listen. Get out!
schaeffer		Lady, I'm here to help you. This man is very dangerous. An armed criminal.  He's got a gun, hasn't he?
rachel		You have no right here!
mcelroy		He's not in this building.
schaeffer		 All right, where is he?
eli		John Book!
schaeffer		He'll live.
rachel		You might have killed him!
schaeffer		 Find Fergie, check the barns. I'll watch these two.
samuel		Is it them?
book		 Now, Sam, listen to me and listen to me carefully. Listen to me as you never listened before.
samuel		 Are they going to kill you?
book		Listen to me, Sam! I want you to go across the new corn to Stoltzfus'. Run as fast as you can. And stay there!
samuel		What are you going to do?
book		I'll be all right. You just do as I say.
samuel		Don't let them hurt you.
book		 Fast as you can!
samuel		 Mr. Book?
schaeffer		Get back in there.
rachel		My son is out there!
schaeffer		Nobody's going to hurt your son...
mcelroy		 Fergie?
schaeffer		What the hell happened?
mcelroy		Book, you sneaky bastard, I know you're here! Come out and fight!
book		 Hey, Mac!
schaeffer		You stay put!
schaeffer		Cut that out!
schaeffer		Get down to the house and stay there!
eli		Praise Gott!
eli		 No, Rachel...
rachel		I have to help him!
eli		It is not our way!
schaeffer		Okay, Johnny. On your feet.
book		It's okay, Sam.
schaeffer		Hold it.
schaeffer		Get back, you people!  Keep moving, Johnny...
book		You're going to have to do it right here, Schaeffer.
schaeffer		Don't try me, Johnny!
eli		So... will you kill us all, then?
book		It's all over, Paul.
schaeffer		Move! Or you die right here!
samuel		Are you really ever coming back?
book		Got to, Sam. You and I are going to a courthouse together, put some people behind bars.
samuel		Have you got your gun on now?
book		Sure have, Sam.
rachel		I want you to take this... to remember by.
book		Where's my baggy pants?
rachel		Here. Whenever you want them.
eli		You be careful, John Book! Out among them English!
****Dialogues from script :Wizard_of_Oz.txt****

dorothy		She isn't coming yet, Toto. Did she hurt you? She tried to, didn't she? Come on - - we'll go tell Uncle Henry and Auntie Em. Come on, Toto.
aunt em		Fifty-seven, fifty-eight --
dorothy		Just listen to what Miss Gulch did to Toto! She --
aunt em		Dorothy, please! We're trying to count! Fifty-eight--
dorothy		Oh, but Aunt Em, she hit him over the --
uncle henry		Don't bother us now, honey -- this old incubator's gone bad, and we're likely to lose a lot of our chicks.
dorothy		Oh -- oh, the poor little things. Oh, but Aunt Em, Miss Gulch hit Toto right over the back with a rake just because she says he gets in her garden and chases her nasty old cat every day.
aunt em		Seventy --     Dorothy, please!
dorothy		Oh, but he doesn't do it every day -- just once or twice a week. And he can't catch her old cat, anyway. And now she says she's gonna get the sheriff, and --
aunt em		Dorothy!     Dorothy!   We're busy!
dorothy		Oh -- all right.
uncle henry		Poor little orphan, and her Miss Gulch troubles. Gosh all hemlock - you know, she ought to have somebody to play with.
aunt em		I know, but we all got to work out our own problems, Henry.
uncle henry		Yes.
aunt em		Oh, I hope we got them in time.
uncle henry		Yes.
zeke		How's she coming?
hunk		Take it easy.
zeke		Well, why don't you get your finger out of the way!
hickory		Come on - come on - over this way.
zeke		Okay.
hickory		There you are.
hunk		Right on my finger!
zeke		It's a lucky thing it wasn't your head.
dorothy		Zeke, what am I going to do about Miss Gulch? Just because Toto chases her old cat --
zeke		Listen, honey, I got them hogs to get in.
hunk		Now lookit, Dorothy, you ain't using your head about Miss Gulch. Think you didn't have any brains at all.
dorothy		I have so got brains.
hunk		Well, why don't you use them? When you come home, don't go by Miss Gulch's place. Then Toto won't get in her garden, and you won't get in no trouble. See?
dorothy		Oh, Hunk, you just won't listen, that's all.
hunk		Well, your head ain't made of straw, you know.
hickory		Oh! Oh, it feels like my joints are rusted. Listen, Dorothy, don't let Hunk kid you about Miss Gulch. She's just a poor sour-faced old maid that -- she ain't got no heart left. You know, you should have a little more heart yourself, and have pity on her.
dorothy		Well, gee, I try and have a heart.
hickory		Now look, here's something that really has a heart. This is the best invention I ever invented.
dorothy		This?
hickory		Sure. It's to break up winds, so we don't have no more dust storms. Can you imagine what it'll mean to this section of the country? I'll show you. It works perfectly now. Here's the principle. You see that fan -- that sends up air currents into the sky. These air currents -- Oh, stop it!
dorothy		Oh!
5.		CONTINUED: 
hickory		Who did it? Now wait a minute.
dorothy		Hickory!
hickory		Now what happened? I'll bet Hunk did that.
zeke		Say! Get in there before I make a dime bank out of you! Listen, kid, are you going to let that old Gulch heifer try and buffalo you?
dorothy		I'm not afraid of her.
zeke		Then the next time she squawks, walk right up to her and spit in her eye. That's what I'd do!
dorothy		Oh!
hickory		Are you all right, Dorothy?
dorothy		Yes, I'm all right.   Oh -- I fell in and - - and Zeke --
hunk		What's the matter -- gonna let a little old pig make a coward out of you?
hickory		Look at you, Zeke -- you're just as white --
aunt em		Here, here, what's all this jabber- wapping when there's work to be done? I know three shiftless farm hands that'll be out of a job before they know it!
hickory		Well, Dorothy was walking along the --
aunt em		I saw you tinkering with that contraption, Hickory. Now, you and Hunk get back to that wagon!
hickory		All right, Mrs. Gale. But some day they're going to erect a statue to me in this town, and --
aunt em		Well, don't start posing for it now. Here, here -- can't work on an empty stomach. Have some crullers.
hunk		Gosh, Mrs. Gale.
aunt em		Just fried.
hickory		Thanks.
hunk		Swell.
zeke		You see, Dorothy toppled in with the big Duroc...
aunt em		It's no place for Dorothy about a pig sty! Now you go feed those hogs before they worry themselves into anemia!
zeke		Yes'am.
dorothy		Auntie Em, really -- you know what Miss Gulch said she was gonna do to Toto? She said she was gonna --
aunt em		Now, Dorothy, dear, stop imagining things. You always get yourself into a fret over nothing.
dorothy		No --
aunt em		Now, you just help us out today, and find yourself a place where you won't get into any trouble.
dorothy		Some place where there isn't any trouble.
miss gulch		Mr. Gale!
uncle henry		Howdy, Miss Gulch.
miss gulch		I want to see you and your wife right away....
uncle henry		Dorothy?   Well, what has Dorothy done?
miss gulch		What's she done? I'm all but lame from the bite on my leg!
uncle henry		You mean she bit you?
miss gulch		No, her dog!
uncle henry		Oh, she bit her dog, eh?
miss gulch		NO!
dorothy		Destroyed? Toto? Oh, you can't!    You mustn't! Auntie Em! Uncle Henry!   You won't let her, will you?
uncle henry		Of course we won't. Will we, Em?
dorothy		Please, Aunt Em, Toto didn't mean to. He didn't know he was doing anything wrong. I'm the one that ought to be punished. I let him go in her garden. You can send me to bed without supper --
miss gulch		If you don't hand over that dog, I'll bring a damage suit that'll take your whole farm! There's a law protecting folks against dogs that bite!
aunt em		How would it be if she keeps him tied up? He's really gentle -- with gentle people, that is.
miss gulch		Well, that's for the Sheriff to decide. Here's his order allowing me to take him. Unless you want to go against the law.
uncle henry		Uhh -- yeah --
aunt em		Now, we can't go against the law, Dorothy. I'm afraid poor Toto will have to go.
miss gulch		Now you're seeing reason.
dorothy		No --
miss gulch		Here's what I'm taking him in -- so he can't attack me again.
dorothy		Oh, no, no! I won't let you take him! You go away, you....! Oooh, I'll bite you myself!
aunt em		Dorothy!
dorothy		You wicked old witch! Uncle Henry, Auntie Em, don't let 'em take Toto! Don't let her take him -- please!
11.		CONTINUED: 
miss gulch		Here!   I've got an order!   Let me have...
dorothy		Stop her!
aunt em		Put him in the basket, Henry.
miss gulch		The idea!
dorothy		Oh, don't, Uncle Henry.   Oh, Toto! Don't...
aunt em		Almira Gulch, just because you own half the county doesn't mean you have the power to run the rest of us! For twenty- three years, I've been dying to tell you what I thought of you! And now -- well, being a Christian woman, I can't say it!
dorothy		Toto, darling! Oh, I got you back!     You came back! Oh, I'm so glad! Toto! 
12.		CONTINUED:  Oh, they'll be coming back for you in a minute. We've got to get away! We've got to run away -- quick!
acclaimed by		The CROWNED HEADS of EUROPE Let Him In His
professor		Well, well, well -- house guests, huh? And who might you be? No, no -- now don't tell me.
dorothy		How did you guess?
professor		Professor Marvel never guesses -- he knows! Now, why are you running away?
dorothy		Why --
professor		No, no -- now don't tell me. They -- they don't understand you at home. They don't appreciate you. You want to see other lands -- big cities -- big mountains -- big oceans --
dorothy		Why, it's just like you could read what was inside of me.
professor		Yes --
dorothy		Please, Professor, why can't we go along with you?
professor		He's perfectly welcome. As one dog to another, huh? Here now -- let's see where were we?
dorothy		Oh, no, I wanted to go along with you.
professor		Oh --
dorothy		Nobody cares about me at home. They wouldn't even miss me.
professor		Aw, come, come, come --
dorothy		No, they won't - honestly.
professor		Oh --
dorothy		Auntie Em was even going to let them kill Toto yesterday for biting Miss Gulch. Oh, please, Professor, why can't we go with you and see all the Crowned Heads of Europe?
professor		Do you know any? Oh, you mean the thing - - Yes, well, I -- I never do anything without consulting my crystal first. Let's....
15.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		That's our farm!
professor		Oh -- yes.
16.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		Yes...That's Aunt Em.
professor		Her -- her name is Emily.
dorothy		That's right. What's she doing?
professor		Well, I -- I can't quite see.   Why, she's crying.
dorothy		Oh --
professor		Someone has hurt her -- someone has just about broken her heart.
dorothy		Me?
professor		Well, it's -- it's someone she loves very much. Someone she's been very kind to. Someone she's taken care of in sickness.
dorothy		I had the measles once -- and she stayed right by me every minute.
professor		Uh-huh.
dorothy		What's she doing now?
professor		Well, she's - she's going into a little bed.... CU - Dorothy - Camera shooting past Professor -
dorothy		Has it poppies on the wall.... MCU - Professor - Camera shooting past Dorothy
professor		I said it had poppies on the wall paper! Eh -- she's -- What's this? Why, she's -- she's putting her hand on her heart -- she's -- she's dropping down on the....
dorothy		Oh, no -- no!
professor		That's all -- the Crystal's gone dark.
dorothy		Oh, you....
professor		But -- what's this? I thought you were going along with me.
dorothy		Oh, no, no, I have to get to her right....
professor		Better get under cover, Sylvester -- there's a storm blowing up -- a whopper, to speak in the vernacular of the peasantry. Poor little kid -- I hope she gets home all right.
uncle henry		Hunk, get them horses loose! Where's Hickory. Hickory! Hickory! Doggone it! Hick --
hickory		This is my chance! The cyclone is coming. Let me show you what my machine can do! You see, it goes --
uncle henry		Doggone you! Help Hunk get them horses loose!
hickory		All right - you'll be sorry.
uncle henry		Go on, hurry up! Hurry up, I tell you!
zeke		She's here -- it's a twister! ELS -- The Gale Farm -- Cyclone approaching --
aunt em		Dorothy!   Dorothy!
uncle henry		Come on -- everybody in the storm cellar!
aunt em		Henry! Henry! I can't find Dorothy! She's somewhere out in the storm! Dorothy!
dorothy		Auntie Em!     Auntie Em!
20.		CONTINUED: 
21.		CONTINUED: 
glinda		Are you a good witch, or a bad witch?
dorothy		Who, me? Why, I'm not a witch at all. I'm Dorothy Gale from Kansas.
glinda		Oh!   Well....
dorothy		Who, Toto?
glinda		Well, I'm a little muddled. The Munchkins called me because a new witch has just dropped a house on the Wicked Witch of the East. And there's the house, and here you are, and that's all...
dorothy		Oh, but I've already told you, I'm not a witch at all -- witches are old and ugly. What was that?
glinda		The Munchkins. They're laughing because I am a witch. I'm Glinda, the Witch of the North.
dorothy		You are! Oh, I beg your pardon! But I've never heard of a beautiful.... MCU -- Glinda looks to r.f.g. and speaks -- DOROTHY o.s.
glinda		Only bad witches are ugly.
dorothy		Oh. But, if you please -- what are Munchkins?
glinda		The little people who live in this land -- it's Munchkinland, and you are their national heroine, my dear. It's all right -- you may all come out and thank her. It's all right now - you may all come out.
munchkins		 Kansas she says is the name of the star.
24.		CONTINUED: 
glinda		 She brings you good news.   Or haven't you heard?
dorothy		 It really was no miracle.   What happened was just this:
a munchkin		And oh, what happened then was rich!
several munchkins		The house began to pitch The kitchen took a slitch
munchkins		 It landed on the Wicked Witch In the middle of a ditch Which was not a healthy situation For the Wicked Witch.
25.		CONTINUED: 
glinda		The Wicked Old Witch at last is dead!
munchkins		 Ding Dong! The Wicked Witch is dead. Which old Witch?
26.		CONTINUED:
mayor		As Mayor of the Munchkin City In the County of the Land of Oz I welcome you most regally
barrister		But we've got to verify it legally To see...
mayor		To see?
barrister		If she...
mayor		If she?
barrister		Is morally, ethic'ly
coroner		As Coroner, I must aver I thoroughly examined her. And she's not only merely dead, She's really, most sincerely dead.
mayor		Then this is a day of Independence For all the Munchkins and their descendants!
barrister		If any!
mayor		Yes, let the joyous news be spread.
munchkins		 Ding Dong!    The Witch is dead. Which old witch?
28.		CONTINUED:
three tots		 We represent the Lullaby League, the Lullaby League,
munchkins		 We welcome you to Munchkinland Tra la la la la la
mayor		From now on you'll be history
barrister		You'll be hist...
city father		You'll be hist...
mayor		You'll be history
group		And we will glorify your name
29.		CONTINUED: 
mayor		You'll be a bust...
barrister		Be a bust...
city father		Be a bust...
group		In the hall of fame!
munchkins		 Tra la la la la
dorothy		I thought you said she was dead.
glinda		That was her sister -- the Wicked Witch of the East. This is the Wicked Witch of the West. And she's worse than the other one was.
witch		Who killed my sister? Who killed the Witch of the East? Was it you? Answer me!
glinda		Leave her alone!
witch		You stay out of this! I'm here for vengeance! So it was you, was it? You killed her,....
dorothy		No -- No! It was an accident! I didn't mean to kill anybody!....
witch		Didn't mean it, eh? Accident, eh? Well, my little pretty, I can cause accidents, too -- and this is how I do it! GLINDA o.s.
glinda		...ting the ruby slippers?
witch		The slippers -- yes.....the slippers!
glinda		It's too late! There they....
dorothy		Oh!
witch		I'm the only one that knows how to use them. They're of no use to you! Give them back to me!
glinda		Keep tight inside of them -- their magic must be very powerful, or she wouldn't want them so badly!
witch		You stay out of this, Glinda, or I'll fix you as well!
glinda		 Oh, rubbish! You have no power here. Be gone, before somebody drops a house on you, too.
witch		Very well -- I'll bide my time -- and as for you, my fine lady, it's true, I can't attend to you here and now as I'd like, but just try to stay out of my way.... MCU -- Witch threatens Dorothy o.s. in f.g. --
witch		... -- just try!    I'll get you, my....
glinda		It's all right. You can get up --   she's gone.
glinda		It's all right. You can all get up.
glinda		Pooh -- what a smell of sulphur! I'm afraid you've made rather a bad enemy of the Wicked Witch of the West. The sooner you get out of Oz altogether, the safer you'll sleep, my dear.
dorothy		Oh, I'd give anything to get out of Oz altogether -- but which is the way back to Kansas? I can't go the way I came.
glinda		No -- that's true. The only person who might know would be the great and wonderful Wizard of Oz himself!
dorothy		The Wizard of Oz? Is he good or is he wicked?
glinda		Oh, very good, but very mysterious. He lives in the Emerald City, and that's a long journey from here. Did you bring your broomstick with you?
dorothy		No, I'm afraid I didn't.
glinda		Well, then, you'll have to walk. The Munchkins will see you safely to the border of Munchkinland. And remember, never let those ruby slippers off your feet for a moment, or you will be at the mercy of the Wicked Witch of the West.
dorothy		But, how do I start for Emerald City?
glinda		It's always best to start at the beginning -- and all you do is follow the Yellow Brick Road.
dorothy		But -- what happens if I --- CS -- Glinda speaks to Dorothy o.s. in f.g. --
glinda		Just follow the Yellow Brick Road.
dorothy		My -- ! People come and go so quickly here! Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow the Yellow Brick Road?
mayor		Follow the Yellow Brick Road.
woman		Follow the Yellow Brick Road.
barrister		Follow the Yellow Brick Road.
fiddlers		Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow, follow, follow, follow, Follow the Yellow Brick Road. Follow the Yellow Brick Follow the...
fiddlers		 ...Yellow Brick
fiddlers		 You're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz!
dorothy		Follow the Yellow Brick Road?   Follow the Yellow....?
dorothy		Now which way do we go?
scarecrow		That way is a very nice way. CS -- Scarecrow, his arm pointing to right --
dorothy		Who said that?
dorothy		Don't be silly, Toto.     Scarecrows....
dorothy		...don't talk.
scarecrow		It's pleasant down that way, too.
dorothy		That's funny. Wasn't he pointing the other way?
scarecrow		...go both ways!
dorothy		Why....
dorothy		...you did say something, didn't you? CS- The Scarecrow shakes his head, then nods - -
dorothy		Are you doing that on purpose, or can't you make up your mind?
scarecrow		That's the trouble. I can't make up my mind. I haven't got a brain -- only straw.
dorothy		How can you talk if you haven't got a.... MCU -- Scarecrow speaks to Dorothy o.s.in f.g. -- DOROTHY o.s.
scarecrow		I don't know. But some people without brains do an awful lot of talking, don't they?
dorothy		Yes, I guess you're right.
dorothy		Well, we haven't really met properly, have we?
scarecrow		Why, no.
37.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		How do you do?
scarecrow		How do you do?
dorothy		Very well, thank you.
scarecrow		Oh, I'm not feeling at all well. You see, it's very tedious being stuck up here all day long with a pole up your back. MCU -- Dorothy --
dorothy		Oh, dear -- that must be terribly uncomfortable. Can't you get down?
scarecrow		Down?   No, you see, I'm -- Well, -- I'm --
dorothy		Oh, well, here -- let me help you.
scarecrow		Oh, that's very kind of you -- very kind.
dorothy		Well, oh, dear -- I don't quite see....
scarecrow		Of course, I'm not bright about doing things, but if you'll just....
dorothy		Oh....
dorothy		...yes.
scarecrow		Ohhhh --
dorothy		Ohh!
scarecrow		Whhhooops!     Ha-ha -- there goes some of me again!
dorothy		Oh -- does it hurt you?
scarecrow		Oh, no -- I just keep picking it up and putting it back in again.
dorothy		Ohhh --
scarecrow		My, it's good to be....
scarecrow		...free!
dorothy		Oh!    Oh!   Ohhh!
scarecrow		Did I scare you?
dorothy		No, No -- I -- I just thought you hurt yourself.
scarecrow		But I didn't scare you?
dorothy		No -- of course not.
scarecrow		I didn't think so.
scarecrow		Boo! You see, I can't even scare a crow! They come from miles.... MCU -- Dorothy listening -- SCARECROW o.s.
scarecrow		Oh, I'm a failure, because I haven't got a brain.
dorothy		Well, what would you do with a brain if you had one?
40.		CONTINUED: 
scarecrow		Do?  Why, if I had a brain, I could --  I could while away the hours, Conferrin' with the flowers, Consultin' with the rain. And my head I'd be scratchin' While my thoughts were busy hatchin' If I only had a brain. I'd unravel every riddle For any individ'le
dorothy		 With the thoughts you'll be thinkin' You could be another Lincoln If you only had a brain.
scarecrow		 Oh, I could tell you why The ocean's near the shore I could think of things I never thunk before,
scarecrow		 ...Life would be a ding-a-derry If I only had a brain!
42.		CONTINUED: 
scarecrow		 Gosh, it would be awful pleasin' To reason out the reason For things I can't explain. Then perhaps I'll deserve you, And be even worthy erv you If I only had a brain.
dorothy		Wonderful! Why, if our Scarecrow back in Kansas could do that, the crows'd be scared to pieces!
scarecrow		They would?
dorothy		Um-hmm.
scarecrow		Where's Kansas?
dorothy		That's where I live. And I want to get back there so badly I'm going all the way to Emerald City to get the Wizard of Oz to help me.
scarecrow		You're going to see a Wizard?
dorothy		Um-hmm.
scarecrow		Do you think if I went with you this Wizard would give me some brains?
dorothy		I couldn't say. But even if he didn't, you'd be no worse off than you are now.
scarecrow		Yes -- that's true.
dorothy		But maybe you'd better not. I've got a witch mad at me, and you might get into trouble.
scarecrow		Witch? Huh! I'm not afraid of a witch! I'm not afraid of anything --- except a lighted match.
dorothy		I don't blame you for that.
scarecrow		But I'd face a whole box full of them for the chance of getting some brains. Look - - I won't be any trouble, because I don't eat a thing -- and I won't try to manage things, because I can't think. Won't you take me with you?
dorothy		Why, of course I will!
scarecrow		Hooray!   We're off to see a Wizard!
dorothy		Oh -- well -- you're not starting out very well.
scarecrow		Oh, I'll try! Really, I will.
dorothy		To Oz?
scarecrow		To Oz!
both		 We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz We hear he is a whiz of a Wiz If ever a Wiz there was If ever oh ever a Wiz there was, The Wizard of Oz
dorothy		Oh -- apples -- Oh look!   Oh.   Oh ---
dorothy		Ouch!
tree		What do you think you're doing?
dorothy		We've been walking a long ways and I was hungry and -- Did you say.... MCU -- The First Tree -- gestures as it speaks --
first tree		She....
45.		CONTINUED: 
first tree		...was hungry! Well, how would you like to have someone come along and pick something off of you?
dorothy		Oh, dear -- I keep forgetting I'm not in Kansas.
scarecrow		Come along, Dorothy -- you don't want any of those apples. Hmm! MCU -- First tree reacts, and speaks --
first tree		What do you mean - she doesn't want any of those apples? Are you hinting my apples aren't what they ought to be? MCU - - Scarecrow and Dorothy --
scarecrow		Oh, no! It's just that she doesn't like little green....
tree		Oh....
tree		...you...
scarecrow		Go -- Go!
tree		...Oh -- Help -- let me out.   I'll give you little green....
scarecrow		I'll show you how to get apples. TREE o.s.
tree		...do that to me!     I'll....
trees		You can't do that!      You can't do that! Hey!
scarecrow		Hooray! I guess that did it!      Help yourself.
dorothy		Oh --
dorothy		Why, it's a man! A man made out of tin!
scarecrow		What?
dorothy		Yes.    Oh -- look --
tin man		Oil can.....Oil can....
dorothy		Did you say something?
tin man		Oil can....
scarecrow		Oil can what?
dorothy		Oil can?   Oh -- oh, here it is!
dorothy		Where do you want to be oiled first?
tin man		My mouth -- my mouth!
scarecrow		He said his mouth.
dorothy		Here -- here --
scarecrow		The other side....
dorothy		Yes --- there.
tin man		Mm.....mm...mm....
tin man		...m...m...my, my, my, my goodness -- I can talk again! Oh -- oil my arms, please -- oil my elbows.
dorothy		Oh...
tin man		Oh --
dorothy		...Oh, did that hurt?
tin man		No -- it feels wonderful.      I've held that axe up for ages. Oh ---
dorothy		Oh, goodness! How did you ever get like this?
tin man		Oh -- well, about a year ago -- I was chopping that tree -- minding my own business -- when suddenly it started to rain....
tin man		...and right in the middle of a chop, I...I rusted solid. And I've been that way ever since.
dorothy		Well, you're perfect now.
tin man		My...my neck. My...my neck. Perfect? Oh -- bang on my chest if you think I'm perfect. Go ahead -- bang on it!
dorothy		Oh --!
scarecrow		Beautiful!     What an echo!
tin man		It's empty. The tinsmith forgot to give me a heart.
tin man		No heart.
dorothy		Oh --
tin man		All hollow. Oh --
tin man		 When a man's an empty kettle, He should be on his mettle. And yet I'm torn apart. Just because I'm presumin' That I could be kind-a human, If I only had a heart.
tin man		 I'd be tender -- I'd be gentle And awful sentimental Regarding Love and Art I'd be friends with sparrows...
tin man		 ...And the boy who shoots the arrows If I only had a heart. Picture me....a balcony....Above a voice sings low.
tin man		I hear a beat....how sweet! Just to register emotion Jealousy -- Devotion -- And really feel the part, I could stay young and chipper, And I'd lock it with a zipper, If I only had a heart...!
dorothy		Oh --
dorothy		Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, are you all right?
tin man		I'm afraid I'm a little rusty yet.
dorothy		Oh, dear -- That was wonderful! You know -- we were just wondering why you couldn't come to Emerald City with us to ask the Wizard of Oz for a heart.
tin man		Emerald City? Why, that's a long and dangerous journey. And it might rain on the way.
scarecrow		But you've just been saying how much you want a heart.
dorothy		And I'll keep the oil-can handy.
tin man		Well, suppose the Wizard wouldn't get me one when we got there?
dorothy		Oh, but he will! He must!   We've come such a long way already. 
tin man		Ohh -- what's that? Oh --
witch		You call that long?
witch		Why, you've just begun! Forgotten about me,....
witch		Helping the little lady along, are you, my fine gentlemen?
witch		Or I'll stuff a mattress with you!
witch		Here, Scarecrow!   Want to play ball?
witch		And as for you, my little....
witch		...happy journey back to Kansas!
scarecrow		I'm not afraid of her. I'll see you get safely to the Wizard now, whether I get a brain or not! Stuff a mattress with me! Hah!
tin man		I'll see you reach the Wizard, whether I get a heart of not. Bee-hive -- bah! Let her try and make a bee-hive out of me! You know -- Hmm? What's that?
tin man		Oh! They're - they're gone now.
dorothy		Oh, goodness! Did any of them sting you?
tin man		I - I guess they tried to, but they bent their stingers.
dorothy		Oh, dear. I don't know what I'd do if a whole swarm kept -- Oh! Oh! Oh, there's one on me!
tin man		Oh - I'll get it!
dorothy		Oh! Oh!
dorothy		Oh --
tin man		Oh, see - I killed it. Oh, I killed that poor little honey bee!
dorothy		Oh-oh-
tin man		It's only a man without a head who could do a thing like that. Poor little bee. CU - Dorothy reacts - reaches o.s. -
dorothy		Oh, there....
dorothy		...there. Don't cry. There. CU - Dorothy looks o.s. - speaks -
dorothy		As a matter of fact, that's just an old drone bee, and it would have died.... CU - Tin Man looks o.s. - DOROTHY o.s.
tin man		Yes?
tin man		Oh.
dorothy		...just that the Witch is so wicked. I don't think you two ought to come with me because you'll get into trouble.
scarecrow		Oh, you don't think we're going to stand by and let her get away with fireballs and bees, do you?
tin man		No, sir!
scarecrow		No, sir!
dorothy		Oh, you're the best friends anybody ever had! And it's funny, but I feel as if I've known you all the time. But I couldn't have, could I?
scarecrow		I don't see how. You weren't around when I was stuffed and sewn together, were you?
tin man		And I was standing over there rusting for the longest time.
dorothy		Still, I wish I could remember.    But, I guess it doesn't matter anyway.   We know each other now, don't we?
scarecrow		That's right.
tin man		We do.
scarecrow		To Oz?
tin man		To Oz!
55.		CONTINUED: 
the three		 We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz We hear he is a whiz of a Wiz If ever a Wiz there was. If ever, oh ever a Wiz there was The Wizard of Oz is one because Because, because, because, because, because Because of the wonderful things he does We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz!
dorothy		I don't like this forest!   It's -- it's dark and creepy!
scarecrow		Of course, I don't know, but I think it'll get darker before it gets lighter.
dorothy		Do -- do you suppose we'll meet any wild animals?
tin man		We might.
dorothy		Oh --
scarecrow		Animals that -- that eat straw?
tin man		Some -- but mostly lions, and tigers, and bears.
56.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		Lions?
scarecrow		And tigers?
tin man		And bears.
dorothy		Oh!    Lions and tigers and bears!
dorothy		Oh, my!
dorothy		Oh, my!
dorothy		Oh, my!
dorothy		Oh, my!
dorothy		Oh, my! 
tin man		And bears!
dorothy		What sort of an animal is that?
tin man		It-it-it-it - it's a huge one!
scarecrow		D-d-d-don't be fr-fr-frightened. I - I'll - I'll protect you. Oh, look!
lion		Put 'em up! Put 'em....
lion		...up! Which one of you    first? I'll fight you both together   if you want! I'll fight you with one   paw tied behind my back. I'll fight you    standing on one foot.
lion		I'll fight you with my eyes closed. Oh -- pulling an axe on me, eh? MCU -- Tin Man trembling --
lion		Sneaking up on me, eh?     Why! 
tin man		Here -- here. Go 'way and let us alone!
lion		Oh, scared, huh?
lion		How long can you stay fresh in that can?  Come on -- get up and fight, you shivering junk yard! Put your hands up, you lop-sided bag of hay!
scarecrow		Now that's getting personal, Lion. MCU -- Tin Man looks o.s. -- speaks --
tin man		Yes -- get up and teach him a lesson. MCS -- Scarecrow and Lion -- Dorothy in b.g. - -
scarecrow		Well -- what's -- wrong with you teaching him?
tin man		Well -- well --, I hardly know him. CS -- Toto barking -- CU -- Lion snarls -- speaks
lion		Well, I'll get you, anyway, Pee-Wee. CU -- Dorothy reacts -- exits left f.g. --
dorothy		Shame on you!
lion		What -- what did you do that for?   I didn't bite him.
dorothy		No, but you tried to.
dorothy		It's bad enough picking on a straw man, but when you go around picking on poor little dogs --
lion		Well, you didn't have to go and hit me, did you? Is my nose bleeding?
dorothy		Well, of course not. My goodness, what a fuss you're making. Well, naturally, when you go around picking on things weaker than you are -- Why, you're nothing but a great big coward!
lion		You're right -- I am a coward.
lion		I haven't any courage at all. I even scare myself. Look at the circles under my eyes.
lion		I haven't slept in weeks.
tin man		Why don't you try counting sheep?
lion		That doesn't do any good -- I'm afraid of 'em.
scarecrow		Oh, that's too bad. Don't you think the Wizard could help him, too?
dorothy		I don't see why not. Why don't you come along with us? We're on our way to see the Wizard now. To get him a heart.
tin man		And him a brain.
dorothy		I'm sure he could give you some courage. MCU -- Lion -- Camera shooting past Dorothy --
lion		Well, wouldn't you feel degraded to be seen in the company of a cowardly lion? I would.
dorothy		No, of course not.
lion		Gee, that's -- that's awfully nice of you. My life....
lion		...has been simply unbearable.
dorothy		Oh.
61.		CONTINUED: 
lion		 Yeh, it's sad, believe me, Missy When you're born to be a sissy, Without the vim and verve. But I could show my prowess -- Be a lion not a mou-ess -- If I only had the nerve I'm afraid there's no denyin' I'm just a dande-lion -- A fate I don't deserve. I'd be brave as a blizzard --
tin man		 I'd be gentle as a lizard --
scarecrow		 I'd be clever as a gizzard --
dorothy		 If the Wizard is a Wizard who will serve.
scarecrow		 Then I'm sure to get a brain --
tin man		 A heart --
dorothy		 A home --
lion		 The nerve.
all		 Oh, we're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. We hear he is a whiz of a Wiz If ever a Wiz there was....
62.		CONTINUED: 
all		 ...If ever, oh ever, a Wiz there was The Wizard of Oz is one because Because, because, because, because, because Because of the wonderful things he does! We're off to see the Wizard The Wonderful Wizard of Oz!
witch		A-hah!  Poppies! Poppies! Poppies!
dorothy		There's Emerald....
dorothy		...City!    Oh, we're almost there at last! At last!
dorothy		It's beautiful, isn't it? Just like I knew it would be. He really must be a wonderful Wizard to live in a City like that!
lion		Well, come on, then.    What are we waiting for?
scarecrow		Nothing!   Let's hurry!
dorothy		Yes -- let's run!
lion		Yes.
scarecrow		Come on -- come on --
tin man		Hurry -- hurry --
scarecrow		Oh!    Oh, come on, come on!
tin man		Look -- you can see it here.    It's wonderful!
scarecrow		Emerald City!
64.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		Oh -- Oh -- what's happening?     What is it?
dorothy		I can't run anymore. I'm so.... CS -- Tin Man and Scarecrow -- DOROTHY o.s.
scarecrow		Here -- give us your hands, and we'll pull you....
scarecrow		...along.
dorothy		Oh, no -- please. I have to rest for just a minute. Toto!
scarecrow		Oh, you can't rest now -- we're nearly there! MCU - Lion yawns and speaks -
lion		What did she -- do that for?
scarecrow		Hey, Dorothy!
tin man		Dorothy!
lion		Dorothy!
tin man		Dorothy! You can't sleep here! You can't sleep in the middle of a field!
witch		 Bring me my wishing cap! I'll call the Winged Monkeys to fetch me those slippers! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! It worked very smoothly!
tin man		 Oh - oh, poor Dorothy!
scarecrow		Don't cry -- you'll rust yourself again!
lion		Comin' to think of it, forty winks wouldn't be bad.
scarecrow		Don't you start it, too!
tin man		Oh!    We ought to try and carry Dorothy.
scarecrow		I don't think I could, but we could try.
tin man		Let's.
scarecrow		Yes.
tin man		Oh -- now look at him!   This is terrible!
scarecrow		Here, Tin Man -- help me. CS -- Dorothy as Scarecrow tries to lift her --
scarecrow		Oh, this is terrible -- can't budge her an inch! This is a spell, this is!
tin man		It's the Wicked Witch!   What'll we do? Help! HELP!
scarecrow		It's no use screaming at a time like this! Nobody will hear you! Help!
scarecrow		HELP -- HELP!
scarecrow		It does help. Dorothy, you're waking up!
dorothy		Oh --
lion		Oh -- unusual weather we're having, ain't it?
dorothy		Look! He's rusted again. Oh, give me the oil can -- quick! Oh-oh, quick!
scarecrow		Yes -- there --
dorothy		Oh -- here quick -- oh! - we'll oil him up.
scarecrow		-- A hot water bottle would be good if we had one.
dorothy		Oh, he's been crying! Why have you been --
witch		Curse it! Curse it! Somebody always helps that girl! But shoes or no shoes, I'm still great enough to conquer her. And woe to those who try to stop me!
dorothy		Come on -- let's get out of here! Look -- Emerald City is closer and prettier than ever!
voices		 ...The most glorious place --
witch		To the Emerald City -- as fast as lightning!
voices		 -- Of the earth or the sky Hold onto your breath Hold onto your heart Hold onto your hope -- March up to the gate And bid it open --- open --- open.
doorman		Who rang that bell?
doorman		Can't you read?
scarecrow		Read what?
doorman		The notice!
doorman		It's on the door -- as plain as the nose on my face! It -- Oh -- CU -- Doorman reacts -- starts out --
doorman		Well, that's more like it. Now, state your business!
doorman		Ooooh! The Wizard? But nobody can see the Great Oz! Nobody's ever seen the Great Oz! Even I've never seen him!
dorothy		Well, then -- how do you know there is one? CU -- Doorman speaks -- reacts -- starts out --
doorman		Because he -- I -- Oh, you're wasting my time!
dorothy		...sir. I've got to see the Wizard! The Good Witch of the North sent me! CU -- Doorman looks o.s. -- speaks --
doorman		Prove it.
70.		CONTINUED:
scarecrow		She's wearing the ruby slippers she gave her.
doorman		...so she is! Well, bust my buttons! Why didn't you say that in the.... CS -- Dorothy -- Tin Man and Lion smiling -- DOORMAN o.s.
doorman		...of a different color!   Come on in!
cabby		Cabby! Cabby! Just what you're looking for! Take you any place in the City, we does.
dorothy		Well, would you take us to see the Wizard?
cabby		The Wizard? The Wizard? I -- can't -- Well -- Yes, of course. But first I'll take you to a little place where you can....
dorothy		Oh, thank you so much. We've been gone such a long time, and we feel so mess -- What kind of a horse is that? I've never seen a horse like that before!
cabby		No -- and never will again, I fancy. There's only one of him, and he's it. He's the Horse of a Different Color, you've heard tell about.  Ha -- ha -- ha --
cabby		 ...das --
cabby		 ...And start to work at one Take an hour for lunch....
cabby		 ...And then at two we're done Jolly good fun!
masseurs		 Pat, pat here,
polishers		 Rub, rub here,
masseuse		 We can make a dimpled smile out of a frown --
dorothy		 Can you even dye my eyes to match my gown?
masseuse		Uh-huh.
dorothy		Jolly old town!
manicurists		 Clip, clip here,
lion		That certain air of savoir faire In the Merry Old Land of Oz!
scarecrow		Ha -- ha -- ha --
tin man		Ho -- ho --ho
dorothy		Ho -- ho --ho -- ho
lion		Hah!
all		 That's how we laugh the day away In the Merry Old Land of Oz! That's how we laugh....
all		 In the Merry Old Land of Oz! Ha -- ha -- ha --
lion		Who's her?     Who's her?
dorothy		It's the Witch! She's followed us here!
tin man		Can't that female take no for an answer?
dorothy		Oh --
cue voice		S-u-r-r-e-n-d-e-r- Dorothy or die! W. W. W. CS -- Two Oz women looking up to sky --
oz woman		Dorothy?   Who's Dorothy?
oz woman		The Wizard will explain it! CS -- Man and Woman looking up to the sky --
man		To the Wizard!
man		To the Wizard!
dorothy		Dear, whatever shall we do?
scarecrow		Well, we'd better hurry if we're going to see the Wizard!
guard		Here -- here -- here -- wait a minute! Wait a minute! Stop - stop - stop! It's all right!
guard		Every -- It's all right! Everything is all right! The Great and Powerful Oz has got matters well in hand - I hope -- So you can all go....
guard		...home -- and there's nothing to worry about.
dorothy		If you please, sir. We want to see the Wizard right away -- all four of us.
guard		Orders are -- nobody can see the Great Oz! Not nobody -- not nohow!
75.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		Oh, but we must!
guard		Orders are - not nobody! Not nohow!
guard		He's in conference with himself on account of this....
guard		...trouble    with the Witch. And even if he wasn't you    wouldn't have been able to see him anyway    on account of nobody has - not even us in    the Palace!
dorothy		Oh, but -- but please. It's very important.
lion		And -- and I got a permanent just for the occasion.
guard		Not nobody! Not.... CU - Horn inside of Guard's cape - GUARD o.s.
guard		Pardon me. We've gotta change the guards.
guard		Now - what do you want?
guard		Not nobody! Not....
guard		...nohow!
tin man		That's what the other man said.
scarecrow		But she's Dorothy!
guard		The Witch's Dorothy? Well -- that makes a difference. Just wait here -- I'll announce you at once.
scarecrow		Did you hear that? He'll announce us at once! I've as good as got my brain!
tin man		I can fairly hear my heart beating!
dorothy		I'll be home in time for supper!
lion		In another hour, I'll be King of the Forest. Long Live the King!  If....
77.		CONTINUED:
lion		 ...I were King of the Forest, Not Queen, not Duke, not Prince....
lion		 My regal robes of the forest.... CS -- Lion sings -- gestures --
lion		 Would be satin, and not cotton, and not chintz.
lion		 With a woof and a woof, and a royal growl. As....
lion		 ...I'd click my heel All the trees would kneel And the mountains bow And the bulls kowtow MCU -- Lion -- gestures, grimaces and sings --
lion		 And the sparrow would take wing 'F -- I...'f -- I...were King!
lion		 ...genuflect to me. Though my tail would lash I would show compash For every underling. 'F -- I...'f -- I --- were King Just King!....
all		 Each rabbit would show respect to him The chipmunks genuflect to him
scarecrow		And his wife would be Queen of the May. MCS - Lion -
lion		I'd be monarch of all I survey....
lion		 Monarch of all I survey.... MCU -- Lion sings -- laughs -- speaks --
lion		 Of all I survey!
dorothy		Your Majesty, if you were king You wouldn't be afraid of anything?
lion		Not nobody, not nohow!
tin man		Not even a rhinoceros?
lion		Imposserous!
79.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		How about a hippopotamus?
lion		Why, I'd thrash him from top to bottomamus!
dorothy		Supposin' you met an elephant?
lion		I'd wrap him up in cellophant!
scarecrow		What if it were a brontosaurus?
lion		I'd show him who was King of the Fores'!
all		How?
lion		How?
lion		Courage!
lion		What makes the flag on the mast to wave? Courage!
lion		...mist, or the dusky dusk? What makes the muskrat guard his musk? Courage!
lion		What makes the sphinx the seventh wonder? Courage!
all		Courage!
lion		You can say that again!    Hah.   Huh!?
guard		Go on home! The Wizard says go away!
all		Go away?
dorothy		Oh --
scarecrow		Looks like we came a long way for nothing.
dorothy		Oh -- and I was so happy!    I thought I was on my way home!
tin man		Don't cry, Dorothy!
lion		Would...would it do any good if I roared?
scarecrow		Who at?
lion		I don't know.
dorothy		Auntie Em was so good to me -- and I never appreciated it. Running away -- and hurting her feelings.
dorothy		Professor Marvel said she was sick. She may be dying -- and -- and it's all my fault!
dorothy		Oh, I'll never forgive myself! Never -- never -- never!
guard		Oh, oh -- please don't cry any more. I'll get you into the Wizard somehow. Come on. I had an Aunt Em myself once.
lion		Wait a minute, fellahs. I was just thinkin'. I really don't want to see the Wizard this much. I better wait for you outside.
scarecrow		What's the matter?
tin man		Oh, he's just ascared again.
dorothy		Don't you know the Wizard's going to give you some courage?
lion		I'd be too scared to ask him for it.
dorothy		Oh, well, then -- we'll ask him for you.
lion		I'd sooner wait outside.
dorothy		But why?    Why?
lion		Because I'm still scared!
dorothy		Oh, come on.
lion		Ohh!
scarecrow		What happened?
lion		Somebody pulled my tail.
scarecrow		Oh, you did it yourself!
lion		I -- Oh --
scarecrow		Here --     Come on.
lion		What was that?
dorothy		Our echo.
oz's voice		Tap - tap - tap - tap - What was that - that - that? Our echo - echo - echo.
83.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		Oh, come on - come on! We'll soon find the Wizard!
oz's voice		The Wizard - The Wizard - The Great and Powerful Wizard of Oz - Oz - Oz-Oz - Oz - Oz - Oz - Oz!
oz's voice		The Great Wizard of Oz. Come forward!
lion		Tell me when it's over!   Oh!
lion		Oh! Look at that! Look at that! Oh -- Ohhhh -- I want to go home -- I want to go home!
oz's voice		I am Oz, the Great and Powerful!
oz's voice		Who are you?
oz's voice		Who are you?
dorothy		I -- If you please, I - I am Dorothy,
dorothy		...the small and meek.   We've come to ask you --
oz's voice		Silence!
dorothy		Ohhh -- Jiminy Crickets! ELS -- Throne --
oz's voice		The Great and Powerful Oz knows why you have come. Step forward,....
oz's voice		...Tin Man!
tin man		Ohhhh -- it's me!
oz's voice		You dare to come to me for a heart, do you? You clinking, clanking, clattering collection of caliginous....
oz's voice		...junk!
tin man		Ohhhh -- yes...yes, sir -- Y-Yes, your Honor. You see, a while back, we were walking down the Yellow Brick Road, and --
oz's voice		Quiet!
tin man		Ohhhhhh!
85.		CONTINUED: 
oz's voice		And you, Scarecrow, have the effrontery to ask for a brain?
oz's voice		You billowing bale of bovine fodder!
scarecrow		Y-Yes -- Yes, Your Honor -- I mean, Your Excellency -- I -- I mean -- Your Wizardry! LS -- Throne --
oz's voice		Enough!
oz's voice		...Uh -- And you,.... LS -- Throne --
oz's voice		...Lion!
dorothy		Oh -- Oh -- Oh!....
dorothy		...You ought to be ashamed of yourself -- frightening him like that, when he came to you for help!
oz's voice		Silence!....
oz's voice		...Whippersnapper!
oz's voice		The beneficent Oz has every intention of granting....
oz's voice		...your requests!
lion		What's that? What'd he say?
dorothy		Oh -- Oh, come on.
lion		Huh?   What'd he say?
oz's voice		But first, you must prove yourselves worthy by performing a very small task. LS -- Throne --
oz's voice		Bring me the broomstick of the Witch...
oz's voice		...of the West.
tin man		B-B-B-B-B-But if we do that, we'll have to kill her to get it! LS -- Throne --
oz's voice		Bring me her broomstick, and I'll grant your requests.
oz's voice		Now, go!
lion		But -- but what if she kills us first?
oz's voice		... I ....
oz's voice		...said, -Go!
88.		CONTINUED:
lion		"I'd turn back if I were you."  CS -- Two owls on limb of tree --
tin man		From now on, we're on enemy ground. You should have something to protect yourself with.
lion		She - she can have my Witch Remover.
dorothy		Does it work?
lion		No, but it's wonderful for threatening with.
dorothy		Oh --
scarecrow		Oh, here - give me that thing! MLS - Spray hits the ground - then vanishes -
scarecrow		Oh, did - did you see that?
tin man		Oh - look out.
scarecrow		You know something? MCU -- Lion and Scarecrow --
scarecrow		I believe they're spooks around here. MCU -- Dorothy and Tin Man --
tin man		That's ridiculous! Spooks -- that's.... MCU -- Lion and Scarecrow -- TIN MAN o.s.
lion		Don't you believe in spooks?
tin man		No.   Why only -- Oh --
dorothy		Oh!   Oh, Tin Man!   Oh!
dorothy		Oh -- Oh --
scarecrow		Oh -- are you -- are you all right? CS -- Lion, his eyes closed tight -- speaks --
lion		I do believe in spooks, I do believe in spooks. I do -- I do -- I do -- I do -- I do -- I....
lion		...do believe in spooks. I do believe in spooks! I do -- I do -- I do -- I do -- I do -- I do!
90.		CONTINUED:  They'll give you no trouble, I promise you that. I've sent a little insect on ahead to take the fight out of them. Take special care of those ruby slippers. I want those most of all. Now, fly! Fly! Bring me that girl and her slippers! Fly! Fly! Fly!
lion		What's that? What's that? Take it away - take it away - Take it away! 
tin man		Hold still - hold still --
dorothy		Oh! Something bit me, too!
tin man		Now come on - you're acting silly -- 
scarecrow		Oh, come on now - everybody -- 
dorothy		 Did you just hear what I just heard?
lion		 That noise don't come from no ordinary bird.
dorothy		It may be just a cricket Or a critter in the trees.
91.		CONTINUED: 
tin man		It's giving me the jitters In the joints around my knees.
scarecrow		Oh, I think I see a jijik And he's fuzzy and he's furry I haven't got a brain But I think I ought to worry!
tin man		I haven't got a heart But I got a palpitation.
lion		As Monarch of the Forest I don't like the situation.
dorothy		Are you gonna stand around And let 'em fill us full of horror?
lion		I'd like to roar 'em down -- But I think I lost my roarer.
tin man		It's a whozis.
scarecrow		It's a whozis?
lion		It's a whatzis.
tin man		It's a whatzis?
lion		Whozat?
tin man		Whozat?
scarecrow		Whozat?
dorothy		Whozat?
dorothy		...and the bees
all		Bug-bug-a-bug-bug-bug-bug-bug-a-boo!
all		In a twitter
scarecrow		Oh, the critter's
tin man		Thar she blows!
tin man		Go away now!
scarecrow		Help!   Help!
lion		Why, I'll -- Foul! Foul!
scarecrow		Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!
tin man		Oh!   Well, what happened to you?
scarecrow		They tore my legs off, and they threw them over there! Then they took my chest out, and they threw it over there!
tin man		Well, that's you all over.
lion		They sure knocked the stuffings out of you, didn't they?
scarecrow		Don't stand there talking! Put me together! We've got to find Dorothy!
tin man		Now, let' s see -- this goes -- Oh, I wish I were better at puzzles.
lion		Wait a minute. This is the left one. He walks bad enough already.
tin man		Oh, poor Dorothy. We may never see her again.
scarecrow		Who do you suppose they were? And where did they take her? A fine thing - to go to pieces at a time like this!
tin man		Now, now, don't fret.
scarecrow		Oh, dear, dear.
tin man		We'll get you together!
witch		What a nice little dog! And you, my dear. What an unexpected pleasure! 
95.		CONTINUED:  It's so kind of you to visit me in my loneliness.
dorothy		What are you going to do with my dog? Give him back to me!
witch		All in good time, my little pretty -- all in good time.
dorothy		Oh, please give me back my dog!
witch		Certainly -- certainly -- when you give me those slippers.
dorothy		But the Good Witch of the North told me not to.
witch		Very well! Throw that basket in the river and drown him!
dorothy		No! No -- no! Here -- you can have your old slippers -- but give me back Toto.
witch		That's a good little girl.   I knew you'd see reason.
witch		Ahh!   Ah!
dorothy		I'm sorry. I didn't do it!    Can I still have my dog?
witch		No! Fool, that I am! I should have remembered -- those slippers will never come off, as long as... CU -- Dorothy reacts -- speaks -- WITCH o.s.
dorothy		What are you gonna do? CU - Witch looks up o.s. - speaks -
witch		What do you think I'm going to do? But that's not what's worrying me -- it's how to do it. These things must be done delicately....
dorothy		Run, Toto, run!
witch		Catch him, you fool!
dorothy		He got away! He got away!
witch		Ohhh! Which is more than you will!   Drat you and your dog! 
97.		CONTINUED:  You've been more trouble to me than you're worth, one way or another --    but it'll soon be over now!
witch		Do you see that? That's how much longer you've got to be alive! And it isn't.... CU -- Dorothy crying -- WITCH o.s.
witch		I can't wait forever to get those shoes! CU -- Dorothy crying -- exits left --
tin man		There. Now, that's the best we can do without any pins.
lion		Yeah --
scarecrow		Oh, don't worry about me. I'm all right. We must worry about Dorothy.
tin man		But how can we find her? We don't even know where she is. Look! There's....
98.		CONTINUED: 
scarecrow		Why, don't you see? He's come to take us....
scarecrow		...to Dorothy!
tin man		Oh --
scarecrow		Come on, fellows!
lion		Oh -- Oh -- Oh -- I....
lion		...I -- I -- I hope my strength holds out.
tin man		I hope your tail holds out. Oh --
dorothy		 Someday, I'll wake and rub my eyes And in that land beyond the skies You'll find me ----
lion		What's that? What's that?
tin man		Oh, I hate to think of her in there. We've got to get her out. 
scarecrow		Don't cry now. We haven't got the oil- can with us and you've been squeaking enough as it is.
lion		Who's them? Who's them?
scarecrow		I've got a plan how to get in there.
lion		Fine.   He's got a plan
scarecrow		And you're going to lead us.
lion		Yeah. Me?
scarecrow		Yes, you.
lion		I -- I -- I -- I -- gotta get her outta there?
scarecrow		That's right.
lion		All right, I'll go in there for Dorothy -- Wicked Witch or no Wicked Witch -- guards or no guards -- I'll tear 'em apart.  I may not come out alive, but I'm going in there. There's only one thing I want you fellows to do.
lion		Talk me out of it.
tin man		No, you don't.
scarecrow		Oh, no!
lion		No?    Now, wait a minute.
tin man		You don't neither --
scarecrow		Up!
lion		Now...
dorothy		I'm frightened, I'm frightened, Auntie Em -- I'm frightened!
auntie em		Dorothy -- Dorothy -- where are you? It's me -- it's Auntie Em. We're trying to find you. Where are you?
dorothy		I -- I'm here in Oz, Auntie Em. I'm locked up in the Witch's castle....and I'm trying to get home to you, Auntie Em! Oh, Auntie Em, don't go away! I'm frightened! Come back! Come back!
witch		Auntie Em -- Auntie Em -- come back! I'll give you Auntie Em, my pretty! 
scarecrow		Sssh -- Toto -- be quiet -- 
scarecrow		Whew! That wasn't my plan - but something happened, didn't it?
tin man		You put up a great fight, Lion.
scarecrow		Yeah --
tin man		I don't know what we'd have done without you.
lion		Hah. I - I must have bitten you a couple of times.
scarecrow		Come on -- I've got another idea.
lion		Do -- do you think it'll be polite -- dropping in like this?
tin man		Come on -- come on.
tin man		Where do we go now?
lion		Yeah.
scarecrow		There!
scarecrow		Wait! We'd better make sure.   Dorothy, are you in there?
dorothy		Yes, it's me! She's locked me in!
dorothy		Oh, I knew you'd get here in time!
lion		Listen, fellows. It's her. We gotta get her out! Open this door!
lion		...the door! Open the door! Open the door! Open the door! Open the door!
tin man		Don't push!
scarecrow		Stop pushing!
lion		Oh - I was only trying to help. Ohhh!
dorothy		Oh, hurry -- please hurry!
dorothy		...ty!
dorothy		Oh -- Oh -- Oh! Toto -- Toto!
lion		Did they hurtcha?
dorothy		Lion, darling -- I knew you'd come!
tin man		Dorothy!
dorothy		I knew you would!
scarecrow		Hurry -- we've got no time to lose!
dorothy		Oh!
witch		...hear of it. Why, my little par-....
lion		Trapped! Trapped like mice -- er -- rats! MLS - The Winkies advancing -
tin man		Go ahead - do something! Roar! Roar!
lion		What good'll it do us?
witch		That's right. Don't hurt them right away. We'll let....
106.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		Oh!
dorothy		Oh!
witch		Seize....
witch		They've gotten away! Stop them! Stop them!
scarecrow		It's no use trying the doors again! Which room is it?
lion		They're coming back!
dorothy		Ohhh!
scarecrow		Oh - upstairs, quickly!
tin man		Go on!
witch		There they go! Ah -- now we've got them! Half you go that way -- half you go that way!
witch		Go! Go! 
lion		Where -- where do we go now?
scarecrow		This way!    Come on!
108.		CONTINUED: 
witch		Well -- ring around the rosy -- a pocket full of spears! Thought you'd be pretty foxy, didn't you? Well, I'm going to start in on you right here - one after the other!
witch		How about a little fire, Scarecrow?
scarecrow		No -- No -- No -- No!
dorothy		Ohh!   OHH!     OHH!
scarecrow		Help! I'm burning! I'm burning!        I'm burning! Help! Help! Help!
109.		CONTINUED: 
scarecrow		Help!
witch		Ohhh -- you cursed brat! Look what you've done! I'm melting! Melting! Oh - - what a world -- what a world! Who would have thought a good little girl like you could destroy my beautiful wickedness!? Ohhh! Look out! Look out! I'm going. Ohhhh! Ohhhhhh....
leader		She's....she's....dead!   You've killed her!
dorothy		I -- I didn't mean to kill her....really I didn't! It's...it's just that he was on fire!
leader		Hail to Dorothy! The Wicked Witch is dead!
winkies		Hail! Hail to Dorothy -- The Wicked Witch is dead!
dorothy		You mean, you're...you're all happy about it?
leader		Very happy - now she won't be able to hit us with a broom....
dorothy		The broom!
dorothy		May we have it?
leader		Please!   And take it with you!
dorothy		Oh -- thank you so much! Now we can go back to the Wizard and tell him the Wicked Witch is dead!
leader		The Wicked Witch is dead!
all		The Wicked Witch is dead! The Wicked Witch is dead!
111.		CONTINUED: 
all		 Hail - hail - the Wicked Witch is dead!
all		 Ding Dong! The Witch is dead. Which old Witch?
all		 Wake up, you sleepy head Rub your eyes
all		 She's gone where the Goblins go Below -- below -- below! Yo ho, let's open....
all		 ...up and sing
all		 ...low.
112.		CONTINUED: 
all		 ...witch?
all		 Wake up, you sleepy head. Rub your eyes -
oz's voice		Can I believe my eyes?    Why....
oz's voice		...have you come back?
dorothy		Please, sir. We've done what you told us. We've brought you the broomstick of the Wicked Witch of the West. We melted her.
oz's voice		Oh ....
oz's voice		...you liquidated her, eh?   Very....
oz's voice		...resourceful!
dorothy		Yes, sir. So we'd like you to keep your promise to us, if you please, sir.
oz's voice		Not so fast! Not.... MLS -- Throne --
oz's voice		...so fast! I'll have to give the matter a little thought. Go away and come back tomorrow!
dorothy		Tomorrow?    Oh, but I want to go home now.
tin man		You've had plenty of time already!
lion		Yeah!
oz's voice		Do not arouse the wrath....
oz's voice		...of the Great and Powerful Oz!   I said - - come back tomorrow!
dorothy		If you were really great and powerful, you'd keep your promises!
oz's voice		Do you presume to criticize the....
oz's voice		...Great Oz? You ungrateful creatures!
oz's voice		Think yourselves lucky that I'm....
oz's voice		...giving you audience tomorrow, instead of....
oz's voice		...twenty years from now. Oh -- oh oh! The Great Oz has spoken! Oh -- Oh --- ....
oz's voice		... Oh .... Oh ....
dorothy		Who are you?
oz's voice		Oh - I - Pay no....
oz's voice		...attention to that man behind the curtain. Go - before I lose my temper! The Great and Powerful ---....
oz's voice		... -- Oz -- has spoken!
dorothy		Who are you?
oz's voice		Well, I -- I -- I am the Great and Powerful -- Wizard of Oz.
dorothy		You are?
wizard		Uhhhh -- yes...
dorothy		I don't believe you!
wizard		No, I'm afraid it's true. There's no other Wizard except me.
scarecrow		You humbug!
lion		Yeah!
wizard		Yes-s-s -- that...that's exactly so.   I'm a humbug!
dorothy		Oh ....
dorothy		...you're a very bad man! MCU -- The Wizard reacts, speaks humbly --
wizard		Oh, no, my dear -- I'm -- I'm a very good man. I'm just a very bad Wizard.
scarecrow		You'd better be good enough to send Dorothy back to Kansas!
wizard		Uh - now, please don't be angry with me. I'll - I'll do anything you say, only... only if you don't shout at me. It makes me nervous!
scarecrow		It makes you nervous?
wizard		Yes.
scarecrow		What about us?
wizard		Well, I --
scarecrow		What about the heart that you promised Tin Man --?
wizard		Well, I --
scarecrow		-- And the courage that you promised Cowardly Lion?
wizard		Well, I --
wizard		Well, I-- but you've got them. You've had them all the...
wizard		...time!
all together		Oh, no we haven't!
tin man		You don't get around us that easy!
lion		Not nohow!
wizard		Well --
scarecrow		You promised us real things -- a real...
scarecrow		...brain!
lion		Real courage. That's what we want.
wizard		You do? boys, you're aiming low. You not only surprise, but you grieve me.
wizard		Why, anybody can have a brain. That's a very mediocre commodity. Every pusillanimous creature that crawls on the earth -- or slinks through slimy seas has a brain!
wizard		From the rock-bound coast of Maine to the Sun.... oh - oh, no -- -- ah - Well, be that as it may. Back where I come from we have universities, seats of great learning -- where men go to become great thinkers. And when they come out, they think deep thoughts -- and with no more brains than you have.... But! They have one thing you haven't got! A diploma!
wizard		Therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Universitatus Committeeatum e plurbis unum, I hereby confer upon you the honorary degree of Th.D.
scarecrow		Th.D.?
wizard		Yeah -- that...that's Dr. of Thinkology!
scarecrow		The sum of the square roots of any two sides of an isosceles triangle is equal to the square root of the remaining side. Oh joy, rapture! I've got a brain!
scarecrow		How can I ever thank you enough?
wizard		Well, you can't. As for you, my fine friend -- you're a victim of disorganized thinking. You are under the unfortunate delusion that simply because you run away from danger, you have no courage. You're confusing courage with wisdom. Back where I come from, we have men who are called heroes. Once a year, they take their fortitude out of mothballs and parade it down the main street of the city. And they have no more courage than you have. But! They have one thing that you haven't got! A medal! Therefore -- for meritorious....
wizard		...conduct, extraordinary valor, conspicuous bravery against wicked witches, I award you the Triple Cross.
wizard		You are now a member of the Legion of Courage!
lion		Oh -- Oh -- shucks, folks, I'm speechless!
120.		CONTINUED: 
wizard		As for you, my galvanized friend, you want a heart! You don't know how lucky you are not to have one. Hearts will never be practical until they can be made unbreakable. I could have been a world figure, a power among men, a - a successful wizard, had I not been obstructed by a heart.
tin man		But I still want one.
wizard		Yes -- ....
wizard		...back where I come from there are men who do nothing all day but good deeds. They are called phil...er -- er -- phil -- er, yes...good-deed-doers. And their hearts are no bigger than yours. But! They have one thing you haven't got! A testimonial!
wizard		Therefore, in consideration of your kindness, I take pleasure at this time in presenting you with a small token of our esteem and affection. And remember, my sentimental friend....
wizard		...that a heart is not judged by how much you love, but by how much you are loved by others.
121.		CONTINUED: 
tin man		Ahh --- Oh, it ticks!    Listen!
dorothy		Yes...!
dorothy		...yes.
tin man		Look -- it ticks!
lion		Read...read what my medal says.
lion		Courage!...
lion		...Ain't it the truth!    Ain't it the truth!
dorothy		Oh -- oh -- they're all wonderful.
scarecrow		Hey -- what about Dorothy?
tin man		Yes -- how about Dorothy?
lion		Yeah.
wizard		Ah --
lion		Dorothy next!
wizard		Yes. Dorothy -- ah -- Dor -- CU -- Dorothy --
dorothy		Oh, I don't think there's anything in that black bag for me.
wizard		Well, no - no -- on the contrary, on the - --- ....
wizard		...I -- ah -- on the contr -- -- Here -- Well, you force me into a cataclysmic decision. The only way to get Dorothy back to Kansas is for me to take her there myself! CU -- Dorothy reacts, speaks --
dorothy		Oh, will you? Could you? Oh -- but are you a clever enough Wizard.... MCU -- The Wizard -- DOROTHY o.s.
wizard		Child -- you cut me to the quick! I'm an old Kansas man myself...born and....
wizard		...excellence to the Miracle Wonderland Carnival Company -- until one day, while performing spectacular feats of stratospheric skill never before attempted by civilized man, an unfortunate phenomena occurred. The balloon failed to return to the fair.
lion		It did?
wizard		Yes. There was I, floating through space - - a man without a continent! CU -- Dorothy --
dorothy		Weren't you frightened?
wizard		Frightened? You are talking to a man who has laughed in the face of death -- sneered at doom and chuckled at catastrophe. I was petrified. Then suddenly the wind changed, and the balloon floated down into the heart of this noble city, where I was instantly acclaimed Oz, the First Wizard de Luxe!
dorothy		Ohhh!
wizard		Times being what they were, I accepted the job, -- retaining my balloon against the advent of a quick get-away.  And in that balloon, my dear Dorothy, you and I will return to the land of E Pluribus Unum!
wizard		Good people of Oz, this is positively the finest exhibition ever to be shown -- 
124.		CONTINUED:  -- yes -- well -- be that as it may -- I, your Wizard par ardua ad alta, am about to embark upon a hazardous and technically unexplainable journey into the outer stratosphere.
wizard		To confer, converse, and otherwise hob- nob with my brother wizards. And I hereby decree that until what time -- if any -- that I return, the Scarecrow, by virtue of his highly superior brains, shall rule in my stead...assisted by the Tin Man, by virtue of his magnificent heart...and the Lion -- by virtue of his courage! Obey them as you would me! And - ah - well, that's all.
dorothy		Oh, come back here!   Toto!
dorothy		Come back! Oh, don't go without me! I'll be right back! Toto!
tin man		Stop that dog!
wizard		This is a highly irregular procedure! This is absolutely unprecedented!
tin man		Oh!    Help me! The balloon's going up!
wizard		-- Ruined my exit!
tin man		Help!
dorothy		Oh! Come back! Don't go without me! Please come back!
wizard		I can't come back!     I don't know how it works!
dorothy		Oh --
wizard		Goodbye, folks!
oz people		Goodbye!   Goodbye!
dorothy		Oh, now I'll never get home!
lion		Stay with us, then, Dorothy. We all love you. We don't want you to go.
dorothy		Oh, that's very kind of you -- but this could never be like Kansas. Auntie Em must have stopped wondering what happened to me by now. Oh, Scarecrow, what am I going to do?
scarecrow		Look -- here's someone who can help you!
dorothy		Oh, will you help me?   Can you help me?
glinda		You don't need to be helped any longer. You've always had the power to go back to Kansas.
dorothy		I have?
scarecrow		Then why didn't you tell her before?
glinda		Because she wouldn't have believed me. She had to learn it for herself.
tin man		What have you learned, Dorothy?
dorothy		Well, I -- I think that it -- that it wasn't enough just to want to see Uncle Henry and Auntie Em -- and it's that -- if I ever go looking for my heart's desire again, I won't look any further than my own backyard. Because if it isn't there, I never really lost it to begin with! Is that right?
glinda		That's all it is!
scarecrow		But that's so easy! I should have thought of it for you.
tin man		I should have felt it in my heart.
glinda		No. She had to find it out for herself. Now, those magic slippers will take you home in two seconds!
dorothy		Oh....
dorothy		...Toto, too?
glinda		Toto, too.
dorothy		Oh, now?
glinda		Whenever you wish.
dorothy		Oh, dear -- that's too wonderful to be true! Oh, it's -- it's going to be so hard to say goodbye. I love you all, too. Goodbye, Tin Man. Oh, don't cry. You'll rust so dreadfully. Here -- here's your oil-can. Goodbye.
tin man		Now I know I've got a heart -- 'cause it's breaking.
dorothy		Oh -- Goodbye, Lion. You know, I know it isn't right, but I'm going to miss the way you used to holler for help before you found your courage.
lion		Well -- I would never've found it if it hadn't been for you.
128.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		I think I'll miss you most of all.
glinda		Are you ready now?
dorothy		Yes.    Say goodbye, Toto.
dorothy		Yes, I'm ready now.
glinda		Then close your eyes, and tap your heels together three times.
glinda		And think to yourself -- "There's no place like home; there's no place like home; there's no place like home."
dorothy		There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home.
129.		CONTINUED: 
dorothy		 -- there's no place like home -- there's no place like home --
dorothy		-- no place like home -- there's no place like home -- no place --
aunt em		Dorothy.   Dorothy, dear. It's Aunt Em, darling.
dorothy		Oh, Auntie Em -- it's you!
aunt em		Yes, darling.
professor marvel		Hello, there! Anybody home? I -- I just dropped by because I heard the little girl got caught in the big -- Well....
uncle henry		She got quite a bump on the head -- we kinda thought there for a minute she was going to leave us.
professor		Oh --
dorothy		But I did leave you, Uncle Henry -- that's just the trouble. And I tried to get back for days and days.
aunt em		There, there, lie quiet now.   You just had a bad dream.
dorothy		No --
hunk		Sure -- remember me -- your old pal, Hunk?
hickory		And me -- Hickory?
zeke		You couldn't forget my face, could you?
dorothy		No. But it wasn't a dream -- it was a place. And you -- and you -- and you -- and you were there.
professor		Oh -- 
dorothy		But you couldn't have been, could you?
aunt em		Oh, we dream lots of silly things when we --
dorothy		No, Aunt Em -- this was a real, truly live place. And I remember that some of it wasn't very nice....
dorothy		...but most of it was beautiful. But just the same, all I kept saying to everybody was, I want to go home. And they sent me home.
dorothy		Doesn't anybody believe me?
uncle henry		Of course we believe you, Dorothy.
dorothy		Oh, but anyway, Toto, we're home!
dorothy		Home! And this is my room -- and you're all here! And I'm not going to leave here ever, ever again, because I love you all! And -- Oh, Auntie Em -- there's no place like home!
****Dialogues from script :Wolf_of_Wall_Street.txt****

jordan		Twenty five grand to the first cocksucker to nail a bullseye!
captain dave		Pull up!   Jesus! We're gonna crash!!
jordan		 Ya guzza git hazarous doozy pay, buddy.
jordan		I take Quaaludes for my back, fifteen to twenty a day. 5. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13 JORDAN  I use Xanax to stay focused, ambien to sleep, pot to mellow out, cocaine to wake up and morphine because it's awesome.
jordan		But of all the drugs under God's blue heaven, there's one that's my absolute favorite.
jordan		Enough of this shit'll make you invincible, able to conquer the world and eviscerate your enemies.
jerry fogel		You got a problem with that?  Jordan?
jordan		Nope.   No problem at all. 7. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jerry fogel		Your job is `connector', which means you'll be dialing the phone over 500 times a day, trying to `connect' me with business owners. And till you pass your Series 7, that's all you'll be doing. Sit.
mark hanna		Jordan? Mark Hanna.  Good, you've met Jerry. One of the smartest guys in the office. Who's ever sucked a dog's cock out of loneliness.
jerry fogel		Smile and dial. And don't pick your fucking head up till one.
mark hanna		Don't mind Jerry, his father raped him as a child. Besides, I'm senior broker here, he's a worthless piker. I heard you pitched stock at your job interview.
jordan		Had to do something to stand out.
mark hanna		I fuckin' love that! Let's grab lunch later. Windows good with you?
jordan		Great.   Yeah. 8. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages    3/5/13
mark hanna		Let's fuck!!
mark hanna		 Your broker in West Virginia? What are you buying, a coal mine? It's the 80s, the game is high- tech.
jerry fogel		Dial the cocksucking phone!
mark hanna		 Got enough for one more? Tootski?
jordan		No.   Thanks though.
hector		Mr. Hanna, what can I bring for you on this glorious afternoon?
mark hanna		Here's the game plan, Hector. Bring us two Absolut Martinis straight up. Precisely seven and a half minutes after you deliver those you'll bring two more, then two more every five minutes until one of us passes out.
hector		An excellent strategy, sir.
jordan		Actually, I'm good with 7-Up.
mark hanna		First day on Wall Street, Hector. Give him time.  No thanks, I'm not eating.
jordan		You can get high during the day and still function? 10. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
mark hanna		High is the only way to do this fucking job. Guy who coined the term "three-martini lunch" was a woman. Cocaine and hookers, my friend, the keys to success.
jordan		I gotta say, I'm really excited about being part of your team. I wanna do all I can for our clients and --
mark hanna		 "Here at L.F. Rothschild, our clients aren't just important, they're family." Just as long as we get our taste first. Remember something, Jordan, your top priority in this job: make us money. If the clients get rich along the way, bully for them. Got a girlfriend?
jordan		Wife.   She cuts hair.
mark hanna		OK, first rule of Wall Street. Nobody -- and I don't care if you're Warren Buffet or Jimmy Buffet -- nobody knows if a stock's going up, down or fucking sideways, least of all stock brokers. But we have to pretend we know. Make sure you stay relaxed. Nobody wants to buy something from someone who sounds like they haven't gotten laid in a month. Take breaks when you feel stressed, jerk off if you can. You like jerking off, right?
jordan		Well... sure.
mark hanna		Good, jerking off is key. And I highly recommend cocaine, which will make you dial faster, which is good for me. Churn `em and burn `em, baby. 11. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
mark hanna		Holy.   Fucking. Shit.
teresa		So I'll take an extra shift, don't worry about it.
jordan		You work too much as it is.
teresa		We could pawn my engagement ring.
jordan		We're not pawning anything. I'm gonna be a millionaire, Teresa.
teresa		You know that doesn't matter, right?
jordan		 "Nobody Beats the Wiz".      I could be a stock boy.
teresa		You're a stock broker.
jordan		No one's hiring brokers right now, sweetie.
teresa		This place is.
jordan		I'm looking for Investor's Center?
dwayne		That's us, hey. Dwayne.
jordan		 Jordan Belfort, I called earlier. I was a broker with Rothschild.
toby welch		I'm tellin' you, this stock is goin' up!... Cause I know, okay?!... I have inside information!
jordan		Where are your quotrons?
dwayne		No quotrons, we sell off the pink sheets -- penny stocks.
jordan		Six cents a share? Who buys this crap?
dwayne		Schmucks mostly. Mailmen, plumbers, people thinking they can get rich quick. They answer our ads, Popular Mechanics, Hustler. 14. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages    3/5/13
jordan		The spread on these is huge.
dwayne		So's your commission, that's the point. Blue chips stocks you get what, one percent? Pink sheets are fifty.
jordan		Wait a second. You're telling me if I sell two thousand dollars worth of stock, my commission is a thousand bucks?
dwayne		Technically, yeah, but not even the biggest schmuck buys two thousand dollars of this shit.
jordan		 Mr. Fleming, good morning, Jordan Belfort with Investor's Center in New York City. You recently responded to one of our ads...
toby welch		How'd you fuckin' do that?
jordan		It's a rock-solid company, sir, it's the next Microsoft... Six thousand. Terrific.
donnie		That your Jag in the lot?
jordan		Yeah.
donnie		Nice ride.      Donnie Azoff.
jordan		Jordan Belfort.
donnie		I've seen it around. We live in the same building. Twelfth floor?  What do you do, bro?
jordan		Stock broker.
donnie		Kids furniture, me and my brother- in-law. Making any money?
jordan		Seventy grand last month.
donnie		Get the fuck out. You made seventy grand in one month.
jordan		Seventy two actually.
donnie		Tell you what. You show me a pay stub with $72,000 on it, I'm quitting my job right now and coming to work with you.
donnie		Yo Paulie, it's Donnie...     Yeah, listen, I quit.
donnie		No problem, if we have a kid who's a retard, we'll just leave it on the steps of some institution.
donnie		You now, take a hit!
jordan		Omigod, I fuckin' love you!!
jordan		--see everyone wants to get rich, so you're already half way there by the time the call starts.
sea otter		I sold weed once to this Amish dude, had one of those beards with no mustache?
robbie feinberg		So?
sea otter		He only wanted to make furniture.
chester ming		What's that got to do with anything?
sea otter		He just said everyone wants to get rich.
robbie feinberg		 That's true, you did.
sea otter		Buddhists too, they don't give a shit about money either.
chester ming		Man I could sell weed to anybody, get a convent full of nuns fucking wasted.
teresa		Omigod.   Jordan.
jordan		You like it?
teresa		It's beautiful.
jordan		They're small, I know, but the stones are really high quality.
teresa		No, no.   I love it.
jordan		Then what?
teresa		I don't know, it's just -- these stocks, these crappy companies.
jordan		In five years the Corleone family will be completely legitimate. 21. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
teresa		Why can't you be legitimate now?
jordan		It's not illegal, Teresa, technically. I mean they're real stocks, they're just...
teresa		Never gonna make anybody money.  Wouldn't you feel better selling this junk to rich people, who can afford to lose the money at least?
jordan		Rich people don't buy penny stocks.
teresa		Why not?
jordan		Gentlemen, welcome to Stratton Oakmont.   The clients we've gone after in the past -- they're done. We will now target exclusively the wealthiest one percent of Americans. The methods we've used -- over. Loud, obnoxious sales hype is worthless with these people. 23. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13 JORDAN  In military terms it's like carpet- bombing -- noisy, menacing and only marginally effective. As Stratton brokers you will be laser- guided smart-bombs aimed at high- priority targets. You will establish an initial relationship with your clients selling only blue chip stocks -- then and only then will you attempt to sell the pink sheets, where the real money is. Now the key to every sale is this:
jordan		--and once Kodak settles the lawsuit, institutions will be permitted to buy their shares in large blocks again. And when that happens, which is any day now, what do you think will happen to the price of Kodak stock?
jordan		Exactly. Which is why you should pick up 5000 shares today, a $200,000 investment.
jordan		Then you lower your voice.
jordan		Believe me, sir, you will not be sorry.
jordan		Then you wait. Whoever speaks first loses. At this point, where are we in the sale? Chester?
chester ming		About to close?
jordan		No, you sweet and sour douchebag! We're at the beginning of the beginning! This is where the sale starts. You as a salesman are almost hoping he says no so you can finally do your fucking job!
jordan		He doesn't know, he needs to think, he's gotta ask his wife! The fact is it doesn't matter what the fuck he says! If he's already agreed that the stock's going up, then the only real objection he has at this point is he doesn't trust you! And he shouldn't trust you, you're a fucking salesman! So what do you say? 25. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
donnie		Let me ask you this, sir -- had I been your broker for the past three to four years and made you money on a consistent basis, you probably wouldn't say you need to think about it, you'd probably say pick me up three or four thousand shares, am I right?
sea otter		Wait a second. You mean to tell me if I put you in Union Carbide at 7 and took you out at 32--
robbie feinberg		If I put you in Texas Instruments at 11 and took you out at 47--
chester ming		--Walmart at 16 and took you out at 95, you wouldn't say Chester pick me up 10,000 shares? C'mon.
donnie		So the problem is that I don't have the luxury of a track record. Sir, let me reintroduce myself to you. My name is Donnie Azoff--
rugrat		--Nicky Koskoff--                                        *
chester ming		Chester Ming--
peter deblasio		Peter DeBlasio from Stratton Oakmont in New York City--
toby welch		--and I plan on being the top broker in my firm this year.
sea otter		So what about this? We start small with 500 shares, a cash
kimmie belzer		If if goes down 10%, will it make you a poor man? No..
chester ming		What this trade will do is serve as a benchmark for future business.
peter deblasio		The downside is minimal and the upside is a long-term relationship with a broker on Wall Street who will consistently make you money.
jordan		Your only regret will be that I didn't call you six months ago.
jordan		Everybody have a good week?
jordan		That conniving little twat!  "The Wolf of Wall Street".
teresa		 Your hair looks good.
jordan		"Jordan Belfort, a twisted version of Robin Hood who takes from the rich and gives to himself and his merry band of brokers".
teresa		There's no such thing as bad publicity, sweetie.
jordan		The hell's all this?
janet		The Forbes article.    They're applying for jobs.
job applicants		Mr. Belfort!    Over here! Sir! 30. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
max		Who the hell has the goddamn gall to call this house on a Tuesday evening! Goddammit!
max		 Hello?... Yes, Gene, right-eo. Good-good then... Cheerio.
max		 Goddamn fucking halfwit! 33. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		What if he gets hurt?
jordan		Get some tranq darts.
donnie		A little straitjacket.                              *
janet		Your dad's coming. With the American Express bill.
jordan		Can you stop him? 36. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
janet		Fuck you, you stop him.
max		$430,000 dollars in one month!! Four-hundred-and-thirty-thousand dollars in one month!!
jordan		Hello, Father.                                      *  They're business expenses. Just                     * relax.                                              *
max		If you bastards don't wipe those smug fucking looks off your faces, I swear to God I'm gonna wipe `em off for you!  Are you insane?
max		Shut the fuck up, Feinberg, you only have a portion because of my son, you worthless twerp!
donnie		 Twerp.
max		You zip it, too, Azoff, those boiling teeth of yours are hurting my fucking eyes!  My own son! From my very loins! What do you think this is?                          *
jordan		Will you calm down --
max		You don't think there's any end in sight, do you? It's all one giant party to you schmendricks! 37. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13 MAX  $26,000 for one dinner!!
jordan		Donnie ordered sides.
donnie		Yeah, that was... Sorry.
max		 What is EJ Entertainment?     What is EJ Entertainment?!
jordan		 You tell me, Dad.
max		It's a goddamn prostitution ring is what it is!!
donnie		Doesn't the IRS allow for T&A?
max		It's T&E and stop fucking with me! What kind of hookers take credit cards, anyway?!
jordan		Give us a minute, will you, guys?
max		What's the matter?
jordan		Nothing, just... My back's been killing me. Pain shooting down my leg. Not to worry, it'll pass.
max		What do the doctors say?
jordan		Doctors, what do they know? I'm on like twenty different medications.  Look, I know it's hard for you to make sense of these expenses, but there's a method here, okay?                        * 39. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
max		And you have to lead by example, is that it?  I'm tellin' ya, kid, one of these days... one of these days the chickens are gonna come home to                      * roost.
crowd		Jor-dan!   Jor-dan! Jor-dan!
jordan		Exactly. We do our own IPO's and we will print money.
sea otter		Eat like a bird, shit like an elephant, baby!
jordan		They can take their Harvard asses under our desks and suck our cocks.  How soon can you get the paperwork filed?
rugrat		 Can't we talk about this Monday?
jordan		It's a simple fucking question. 41. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
rugrat		Except I'm looking at three of you right now.
donnie		 Oh, oh, Steve... Steve...
jordan		What?
donnie		...Steve... M-m-madden...
jordan		 Shhhh... listen to him... 42. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
donnie		Ssshhhhoes... shhhoooess...
sea otter		Holy fuck.
rugrat		My nutsack's about to explode.
cristy		Jordan, hey.  Have you met my friend Naomi?
jordan		Naomi.
naomi		You have an awesome house. I don't think I've ever been in a house like this. 43. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages    3/5/13
jordan		You like it? I just got it. I guess it's okay. Six bedrooms, two hot-tubs, one off the master suite overlooking the water. You like to jet-ski?
blair		Hi.   Blair Hollingsworth.
jordan		You're telling me you've never jet- ski'ed in your life?!
naomi		Never.
blair		Y'know, we really should hit it, there's two other parties we're s'posed to get to --
jordan		What?    You just got here.   Stay.
hildy		Jordan, Teresa needs your help.
jordan		With what?
hildy		I dunno, you'll have to ask your wife what she wants.
hildy		Donnie!   What the fuck are you doing?!
jordan		Bay Ridge.      That's near Staten Island?
naomi		Brooklyn, across the Verrazano Bridge. Guinea gulch. Ever been?
jordan		You're Italian?
naomi		My dad's side. Also Dutch, German, English -- I'm a mutt. Actually I have family over there, in London. My Aunt Emma.
jordan		That explains it then.
naomi		What?
jordan		 You're a Duchess. The Duchess of Bay Ridge.
naomi		Could I have a straw please?
jordan		How come?
naomi		Aren't you married?
jordan		Married people can't have friends?
naomi		So I don't stain my teeth.
naomi		An entire line of lingerie -- camisoles, bustiers, panties.
jordan		Sounds like something I might invest in. Venture capital. 46. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
naomi		Well we should definitely keep in touch, then.
jordan		Absolutely.
naomi		That's me.
naomi		You wanna come up for some tea?
naomi		Say hi, Rocky.
jordan		I'm sorry, I--
naomi		Did you cum?
jordan		 Yeah, but I'm still hard.
jordan		Hold still, don't move.  Watch the potholes! 48. The Wolf of Wall Street     Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		I thought you were at the beach house, I--
teresa		I married you when you had nothing--
jordan		Teresa... I don't know what to say.
teresa		You're like a totally different person.
jordan		I'm not. I'm sorry.        I made a mistake, okay?
teresa		Tell me you don't love her.
jordan		I...
teresa		 Jordan?
jordan		Thank you, Nicholas.
naomi		Omigod!
naomi		He must have thought I was at my mother's.
jordan		Where were they? In the bedroom?
naomi		They were right here! 50. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		I just want my stuff back, okay?
donnie		 I should kill you, cocksucker! You do not fuck with this man!
jordan		You were high, things got out of control, I get it. Believe me I do, I have a Phd in debauchery.
donnie		I'll knock your fuckin' teeth out, motherfucker!
jordan		Just give me the money, give me the jewelry, and we'll forget the whole thing.
jordan		Nicholas. You could fuck a baby sheep as far as I care, on my brand new fucking sofa. What I won't stand for is being robbed.
jordan		I'll ask you one last time.
donnie		You're dead, you piece of shit!
jordan		Fine.
manny riskin		I'm telling you -- piss on the SEC's leg, you'll end up with your tits in a ringer.
jordan		It's under control. Will you relax already? 53. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
max		What the fuck is this imbecile doing?!
jordan		See an IPO is an initial public offering, the first time a stock is offered for sale to the general population. 54. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13 JORDAN  You know what, you're probably not                  * following what I'm saying. The                      * question is, "was it legal?"                        * Absolutely not. But we were making                  * more money that we knew what to do                  * with.                                               *
barry kleinman		I'm Barry Kleinman, filming the wedding -- would you like to say something to Jordan and Naomi?
naomi		Omigod!   Aunt Emma!
aunt emma		Jordan dear, how lovely.
jordan		It's so nice to see you again.
aunt emma		Into the donuts, I see.
jordan		Oh, I'm--- uh...
aunt emma		I lived through the 60s, my dear. Enjoy the day.
jordan		Careful now.     You ready?
naomi		What is this?
jordan		Your wedding present.       Check out the name.
naomi		Wake up, you bag of shit!
jordan		The fuck are you doing?!
naomi		Who's Venice?
jordan		What?!
naomi		Who is she?! Some little hooker you fucked last night?
jordan		What?    No!    Naomi!
naomi		You were calling her name in your sleep!
jordan		I can explain everything.
naomi		Go ahead. More lies from the man who lies for a living!
jordan		No, really. Donnie and me, we're investing in a condo development in Venice.
naomi		Italy?!
jordan		California, baby.
naomi		Yeah, right.
jordan		Duchess, come on.
naomi		Don't `Duchess' me, you scumbag. You think I don't know what you're up to? You're a father now and you act like an infant!
jordan		Fuck. Naomi!    Why are you so mad?
naomi		Where do you want me to start? How about you flying in here on your stupid helicopter at three in the morning waking up Skylar?!
naomi		But why should you give a shit? You're not the one who researched the fucking thing and dealt with the fucking golf course people!
jordan		You're an aspiring landscape architect?! But what happened to wine connoisseur? Oh wait, that was last month!
naomi		Fuck you!
jordan		I wasn't flexing my arms. You're just lucky to have a husband who's in such great shape. Now get over here and kiss me!
naomi		Kiss you?!
jordan		Where the fuck were you last night?
jordan		Hey, Skylar.
naomi		 Good morning Daddy. Where's my kiss?
jordan		 Does Daddy get to kiss both his girls?
naomi		Ohhh, no! Daddy doesn't even get to touch Mommy for a very, very long time.
jordan		C'mon, Nay, please. You know how sorry I am. I swear I--
naomi		 So take a good look. You'll be seeing an awful lot of it around the house, but no touching.
jordan		C'mon, why are you doing this? I said I'm sorry.
naomi		 Ohhhh poor, poor Dada. He loves to say how wrong he is when he's ready to come in his own pants. Isn't that right Dada? Mommy loves Daddy so, so much and there's nothing she wants to do more right now than to make love to Daddy all day long. Well, I guess it's time for Daddy to be taught his first lesson. 63. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages     3/5/13
jordan		I wouldn't do that if I were you Mommy. I think Mommy should hear a story before she decides to please herself like that. Can Daddy tell Mommy a story?  Good. Once upon a time there was a great big mansion in Long Island and the people who lived there had lots and lots of money. But of all the possessions they had, there was one thing that was much more valuable than all the rest combined, and that was their little baby daughter.
naomi		You asshole! 64. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
donnie		There he is.
jordan		 Steve here yet?
donnie		On his way.     Very excited.
jordan		Good.   Cuz we have a problem.
janet		 Is he wearing a bow tie?
jordan		He's got nothing better to do on the day of the biggest IPO in this firm's history?!
donnie		The fuck you doing?
donnie		Oh. 65. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		The Cobbler.    Ready to get rich?
steve madden		Hey buddy.
donnie		--which is why they need to meet you.
jordan		You gotta get `em fired up so they'll push the shit out of this stock.
donnie		Let them feel your passion.
steve madden		 Uhhh... excuse me...
one broker		We know who you are! 67. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
steve madden		I uh, I'd like to start by telling you about my background in the shoe industry.
another broker		Nice fucking hat!
steve madden		I uh... first started working in the shoe industry, in a shoe store. When I was sixteen, my friends were out chasing girls, but I was learning about women's shoes.
steve madden		No. Heh-heh. Not like that. I mean somehow I became fascinated with the endless design possibilities for women's shoes--
jordan		All right, let's hear it for Steve Madden and the wonderful Mary Lou!
jordan		Of the two million shares being offered for sale, a million belonged to me, held in phony accounts by my ratholes. Once the price hit the high teens, I--
donnie		22 million in three fucking hours!
jordan		Janet, baby.    Drink.
janet		Call for you.    Barry Kleinman from Future Video?
jordan		Who?
janet		He filmed your wedding.     He says it's urgent.
jordan		Barry? 72. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
barry kleinman		Jordan, hey. Listen, I got a subpoena. The FBI wants a copy of your wedding video.
jordan		But my goddamn wedding video?
bo dietl		Got your whole inner circle in one place, faces and names. He's hoping it rattles you, or maybe your wife, so that she starts nagging you to turn witness.
jordan		 What? He wants me to rat on myself? 73. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
bo dietl		 Good news is I made some calls, DEA, Justice? No one but him even knows who you are.
jordan		Can you bug him or something, tap his phone?
bo dietl		Jordan, relax. First off, you don't fuck with these guys, not that way. Secondly, I got a P.I. license, you know?
jordan		Maybe I should call him, see what he wants.
bo dietl		No! Anybody does that should be your lawyer. What you do is eat your dinner, drink your drink, and forget about it. Cuz as far as I hear he doesn't have shit.
agent denham		Mr. Belfort, I'm Agent Denham. This is Agent Hughes. 74. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		Heya! This is Nicole and, um...Heidi. Girls, Patrick and...?
agent denham		Agents Denham and Hughes. Your message said you wanted to speak privately.
jordan		It did. I do.  Give us a minute, okay?
agent denham		Bureau forbids us from drinking at sea.
jordan		I have something for you, I just gotta find it. Have a seat, will ya? Ever been on one of these before?
agent denham		A boat? Learned to sail when I was six.
jordan		I mean, one like this. Just had her extended to put a chopper on the back.
agent denham		Never been on a boat with a second mode of transportation on top of it.
jordan		Names and addresses of every guest at my wedding. Friends, clients. I even threw in the seating chart. Heard that's why you wanted the video, figured this'd expedite whatever it is you're doing.  I wanted to show you I've got nothing to hide. I know you're investigating Stratton but for the life of me I can't figure out why. Sure, my company is unorthodox; what brokerage isn't? Maybe we're a little louder than most but we don't do anything illegal. Talk to the SEC, they'll tell you, they checked us out up and down.
agent denham		The SEC's actually a civil regulatory agency. We pursue criminal activity.
jordan		That's what I'm saying. You guys take on real crime. Which is why I'm so curious: what do you think we did?
agent denham		I can't discuss ongoing investigations.
jordan		I understand.
agent denham		Though, to be frank, this case kinda got dumped on my desk. Some higher-up felt your shop needed looking into after all that press, fell on me to do the looking.
jordan		You know who you should be looking at? Goldman, Lehman Brothers, Merrill. 76. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13 JORDAN  What those guys're up to with collateralized debt obligations? This internet stock bullshit? C'mon. If you want, I'll walk you through exactly --
agent denham		-- that'd be great. And if there's anything you can give me just to close out your file, get it off my desk--
jordan		-- sure, get you back to the real criminals --
agent denham		-- then we could both profit from this little sit-down.
jordan		You sure you don't want anything to drink? Water for your pal?  Rumor is your started out in finance. Even got your broker's license before you joined the bureau.
agent denham		Who told you that?
jordan		 Ever regret it? Giving up the money-crazed, pin-striped life? Ever think where you'd be if you'd stuck with it?
agent denham		When I'm riding the subway home, sweating my balls off, in a suit I've worn three days, sure.
jordan		Whattaya pull in working at the bureau, if you don't mind me asking. 50-60K a year?
agent denham		Just about. We get a free handgun out of it, though, that doesn't suck. 77. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		S'crazy, the world we live in, the jobs with real value, the ones we should appreciate -- firefighters, teachers, FBI agents -- those are the ones we pay the least.
agent denham		Way of the world.
jordan		That's one thing I like about what I do, the opportunity to make that right. Take this kid we had interning last year. Didn't want to be a broker, wanted to be an environmental scientist or something, he had a student loan debts up to his eyeballs. Anyway, his mom gets sick, all they can afford is third-rate care. Some of us got together, made an investment on his behalf and -- boom -- overnight everything changes, she's seeing the best doctors in the country. Sadly, didn't work out, she passed but still: having the power to do that makes all the other bullshit worth while.  See, it's all about proper guidance, Pat. Knowing someone with the right relationships, who's discreet. I can change a life almost every day.
agent denham		How much that intern make off your deal?
jordan		North of half a million.
agent denham		Can you say that again, what you told me?  I believe Mr. Belfort just tried to bribe a federal officer. 78. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		What? I was making conversation.
agent denham		Sounds like that to me, Jordan.
jordan		...no, no, no...
agent denham		...sounded like that...
jordan		...no, to constitute a bribe, don't I have to make an explicit offer of money for services? With an exact dollar figure attached? All I said was "north" of half a million. According to the U.S. Criminal Code, that dog won't hunt, Pat.  Heard you were a straight arrow. That you wouldn't bend the rules other agents might. He was right.
agent denham		You did a background check on me?
jordan		Figured you were looking into me, was only fair. Plus you sail on a yacht fit for a Bond villain, sometimes you gotta act the part.
agent denham		This is why you invited me down to your yacht? With a couple hookers on it --
jordan		-- those are friends --
agent denham		-- to get a sense of the guy who was coming after you?
jordan		Thanks for coming down. Now get off my boat.
agent denham		You know, most of the Wall Street jackasses I bust, they were born to the life. 79. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages    3/5/13 AGENT DENHAM  You know, this is about the nicest boat I've ever been on. Just think what a hero I'll be in the office when the bureau seizes it.
jordan		Hey, Denham! I'm gonna eat a claw of lobster now as I get my cock sucked by Heidi down below. You have a super ride home on the subway thinking about that!                          *
naomi		Switzerland?    What the fuck is in Switzerland?
jordan		Swiss cheese, Naomi, what do you fucking think?
jordan		 Sweetheart! Look at you!
jordan		Donnie.   Donnie, wake up.
donnie		Nuuhh?
jordan		Untie me, shitbag. You think this is funny?
donnie		I didn't tie you, the captain did. He almost tasered you.
jordan		Why?
saurel		Jordan Belfort! At last! Nicholas has told me so much.
rugrat		Jordan, Jean-Jacques Saurel.
jordan		Nice to make your acquaintance. This is some lobby you got.
saurel		Ah, yes. We gave our designer an unlimited budget and he exceeded it. Come! You must tell me all about your adventure with the stewardess over coffee!
donnie		We have a joke in America. "Heaven is a place where the police are Brits, the chefs are Italian, the car mechanics are German, the prostitutes are French and the bankers are Swiss." I never got it `til now -- look at those fucking fish! Come here, little guy...
saurel		Yes, we have the same joke here. Only sometimes the English are chauffeurs and the chefs are French. The Germans, alas, are always mechanics; no one wants to grant them more authority than that.
jordan		I'm curious about your bank secrecy laws.
saurel		Excusez-moi, Jordan, Swiss custom requires ten minutes of idle chit- chat before business can be discussed.  Of course, let's get "down to it." What would you like to know?
jordan		Under what circumstances would you be obligated to cooperate with an FBI or U.S. Justice Department investigation?
saurel		Ca depend.
jordan		Ca depend?      Ca depend on what? 84. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
saurel		Whether America plans to invade Switzerland in the coming months.
rugrat		Want me to see if tanks are rolling down the Rue de la Croix?
saurel		The only way the Banque Real de Geneve would cooperate with a foreign legal body is if the crime being pursued also happened to be a crime in Switzerland. But there are very few Swiss laws pertaining to your "rumored" improprieties. Which is why Mr. Azoff's joke is most appropriate: from a financial standpoint you are now in heaven, and we welcome you. If the U.S. Justice Department or FBI or SEC or IRS sent us a subpoena, it would become papier-toillette. We would wipe our ass with it.
jordan		Unless it was an investigation into stock fraud -- which is a crime in Switzerland. Then you'd have to cooperate.
saurel		 Yes, we would. Assuming the account is under your name. However, if it were in the name of a nominee of yours...
aunt emma		Jordan?
jordan		 Surprise.
aunt emma		So tell me about this plan of yours.
jordan		I'd like us to go to Switzerland tomorrow so you can open an account. I'll fund it, and I'll pay you really well for your trouble.
aunt emma		Oh my. 86. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages    3/5/13
jordan		Next month maybe you can fly to New York and we can start moving the cash.
aunt emma		Moving the cash.  I feel like a character in an Ian Fleming novel. It's all quite racy, isn't it?
jordan		It is, and it's illegal too. Of course if you ever got in trouble, I'd come forward in two seconds, say I duped you, but even still.
aunt emma		Risk is what keeps us young, isn't it darling?
jordan		I like that attitude. Promise me                      * you'll spend at least ten thousand pounds per month out of the account, okay?
aunt emma		 I wouldn't even know how. I really do have everything I need.
jordan		But I bet you don't have everything you want. How about a bigger apartment so your grandkids can sleep over?
aunt emma		Shall we sit?
jordan		Sure, that'd be great.
aunt emma		Sometimes I wonder if you let money get the best of you, dear.  Among other substances. 87. The Wolf of Wall Street     Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		It's that obvious, huh?
aunt emma		It's the height of summer and                         * you've got the chills.                                *
jordan		I'm a drug addict, Emma. Coke,                        * pills, you name it, whatever you                      * got. Sex addict too.                                  *
aunt emma		 Well there are worse things to be addicted to than sex.
jordan		 Why did I just tell you that?                         *
aunt emma		 Because I'm very easy to talk to.
jordan		As a matter of fact you are. My                       * job, you know, it's tough. I mean                     * I'm not complaining, it's just the stress. All these people depending                    * on me. Millions of dollars at                         * stake every day. I sometimes feel                     * I've bitten off more than I can                       * chew.                                                 *
aunt emma		You're a man with large appetites.
jordan		I agree. I put it on myself. It's                     * hard to control the anxiety, you                      * know? It's hard to learn to relax.                    *
aunt emma		To release the tension.
jordan		Exactly, to release the tension.                    * Sometimes you gotta learn to do                     * what comes natural in life, huh?                    *
aunt emma		Stability, dear. Family. *
chantalle		Bra-had, theese tape eez focking steeky!
chantalle		Take eet off, Bra-had! Eet erts!
brad		Shut up, bitch.
chantalle		You beetch, you focking douche-a- bag-a!
donnie		Take eet off!    Take eet off!
jordan		Well, this is fucked.
naomi		It's gonna take her like fifty trips.
brad		We'll get her parents to tape up too. They got Swiss passports. Plus her brother and his wife. Five people, six-seven trips?
jordan		How much'll they want for it?
brad		I dunno, not much. Fuck, they'd probably do it just for the miles.
donnie		What about my money? 90. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
brad		What?
donnie		My money. I got a few mil of my own I wanna move. I'll call you, you can come pick it up.
brad		 You'll "call" me.
donnie		 And you can come "pick it up."
jordan		What's wrong?
brad		Don't make me deal with this fucknut, okay?
jordan		Donnie?   He's just high is all.
brad		I dunno if he's stupid or a junkie but he's a loose fuckin' cannon. I don't trust him and I don't want him around me.
jordan		Jesus. I thought he was your best customer.
brad		I only sell to him cuz he's your friend.
jordan		Can you just do one trip for him?
brad		I'll meet him but I won't pick up. I have a limit of how much of that douchebag I can take. 91. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
donnie		I can hear you, motherfucker!
donnie		Fu Manchu!      Kung fu!
brad		S'cool, just... gimme the case.
donnie		 You know, I always kinda regretted you didn't come to work with us at Stratton. It'd be so cool having you around, man.
brad		 Yeah, well...
donnie		You'd be one of us, we'd go out- partying together, you wouldn't have to dress like a mall rat guinea prison bitch all the time.
brad		Give me the money.
donnie		Can I come over and help tape this to your wife? "Eez so focking steeky! Take eet off, Bra-hod!"
brad		I'm gonna give you a pass.
donnie		You're what?
brad		I'm gonna give you a pass.
donnie		You're gonna give me a pass?
brad		Yes.    Just gimme the money.
donnie		You're gonna give me a pass? Okay...  Why don't you stick your pass up your Slavic cunt's pussy.
brad		Shit!
police		Freeze!   Don't move!
donnie		Jord, do I have a surprise for                      * you. Twenty real lemons! A retired                  * pharmacist friend of mine's been                    * sitting on these the last 15                        * years.                                              *
jordan		You fucking serious?!
jordan		Start with one, see how it goes? 95. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages      3/5/13
donnie		My guy says one's all we'll need. Salut'.
jordan		You feeling anything?
donnie		Nope.  Thirty five minutes.
jordan		Maybe we've built up a tolerance all these years?
donnie		This is bullshit, man. My fucking metabolism's pumping and I don't feel shit.
jordan		They're old, maybe they lost their potency.
donnie		January `81.    They're fucking duds.
naomi		What are you two retards doing? 96. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		Nothing.   Working out.
naomi		 Bo Dietl's on the phone.
jordan		Bo, hey, what's up?
bo dietl		I need to talk to you, but not on this phone.
jordan		Why, what's--
bo dietl		Leave the house, call me back from a pay phone, you hear me?
jordan		Yeah, I'm at a pay phone.       What's going on?
bo dietl		Your buddy Brad's in jail.
jordan		Oh, Jesus Christ! What did he do?                         *
bo dietl		I dunno yet, they arrested him in                         * a shopping mall in Long Island                            * this morning, I'm finding out. But listen to me. More important than that. The guy Denham I told you about, the Fed? He's got your phones tapped, I'm pretty sure. Home and office.                                          *
jordan		Fuck!
bo dietl		Did you try to bribe this fuckin' guy?
jordan		What? No!       I didn't try to bribe anybody!
bo dietl		Jordan? I couldn't understand you. Say that again?
jordan		I zay I zint ty zoo bibe azybuzzy!
bo dietl		Are you fucking high? 98. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		...ello?
jordan		Whazz a marra?
jordan		Whaa?!!    No!! 100. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		Where Zonnie?!
naomi		In the kitchen.
donnie		 --zee money, I wazza move izz to Zwizzyland... 101. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
saurel		What language are you speaking, Mr. Azoff?
jordan		Ge ozza zone!     Ge ozza iz!!
donnie		Waz?   Iz zoggin oo anzali!
jordan		GE OZZA ZONE!!
naomi		What the fuck are you doing?!
donnie		Wazza fuh is wrong wizzz oooo?!! I wuzz awwing to!!  Wazza mazzer?! Wazza yoo razy?!!
jordan		Zee vone!! He nah zuppose zoo dalk on zee vone!!
donnie		Wuzz?!!
jordan		ZE NAH ZUPPOSE ZOO DALK ON ZEE VONE!! WUZZ AAZZEN TOZAY WIZ ZOD?!
donnie		WUZZ?! 102. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
jordan		WUZZ ZOD IN ZAW?!
donnie		WUZZ?!
naomi		Omigod, he's choking!     Jordan, do something!!
jordan		He won't come back!
naomi		Don't let him die! He has children!
jordan		Yes?
manny riskin		You're a lucky guy, Jordan. Legally I've never seen anyone slip a noose the way you do. Christ, you're lucky to be alive much less not in jail.
jordan		I don't believe in luck.
manny riskin		That's what all lucky people say. It's time, Jordan. Let me make a deal with SEC. Before your luck runs out.
jordan		What kind of terms?
manny riskin		You plead guilty to a handful of securities violations -- stock manipulation, high pressure sales tactics, ticky-tack shit like that. You pay a few million dollars in fines and in exchange the SEC fucks off for all time.
jordan		And Stratton?    What happens there? 105. The Wolf of Wall Street   Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
manny riskin		You'd have to walk away. Let Donnie take over.  Now the FBI's a different animal. They can still pursue you for criminal wrongdoing. But with you on the sidelines, my guess is your best friend Agent Denham'll be left standing around with his dick in his hand.
max		You beat them, Jordan. You won. Sail into the sunset with your wife and kids while you can.
manny riskin		God knows you'll never have to work again.
jordan		I'm sure many of you have been hearing rumors lately, about me, about the future of this firm, and that's what I'd like to talk to you about today.  Five years ago when I started Stratton with Donnie Azoff, I knew the day would eventually come when I'd be moving on. It's truly with a heavy heart that I tell you that day is here.
donnie		 Why would anyone in their right mind not follow JB's advice?
jordan		Before I go, there's something I want to remind you all, and that's this -- Stratton Oakmont is bigger than any one person, even me. Especially me. You guys are Stratton, each and every one of you, and that is why it's sure to remain the best brokerage firm in the fucking world!
kimmie		You wrote me a check for $25,000!
jordan		Because I believed in you, like I believe in each and every one of you!
kimmie		I love you, Jordan!
jordan		You know for years I've been telling you guys not to take no for an answer, to keep pushing, to not hang up the phone till you get what you want. This deal I'm about to sign, barring me from the securities industry, barring me from Stratton, my home... What the fuck is that? I'll tell you what it is, it's me being a hypocrite. It's me taking no for an answer, it's them selling me, not the other way around! Fuck it, I'm not leaving!
hostess		Can I get you anything else, gentlemen?
jordan		I have a rare condition that requires me to drink one of these every fifteen minutes. If you could set your egg timer, I'd appreciate it.
donnie		Rugrat! Bongiorno, my bald eagle!                   *
rugrat		We may have a problem. Your                         * friend, Steve Madden, he's                          * unloading shares.                                   *
donnie		What?!   You're fucking kidding?!                   *
donnie		He's not picking up.
jordan		Your fucking friend is trying to fuck me. And you know where he's trying to fuck me? Up the ass.  I need some time to think.                          *
jordan		Tell all the brokers to sell.                       * Drive the price down. Steve will                    * go cockless when he watches me                      * turn his company into a penny                       * stock.                                              *  Captain Ted!! Start `er up, we gotta go home!                                      *
naomi		I got a call from cousin Betty. Aunt Emma's dead.
saurel		It is terrible. Your aunt was such an elegant, attractive woman. My condolences to you and your family. You must be --
jordan		 Thanks but where does this leave us in regard to her account? It goes into probate or what?
saurel		Not to worry, Jordan. Your aunt, before she died, signed a document naming you as her successor.
jordan		She did?!
saurel		 Well. Not as of yet.
jordan		Captain Ted! Change of plan!                         * We're going to Monaco.                               *
naomi		Monaco, now?                                         *
hildy		But her aunt just died, we can't go to --
jordan		I realize that but we have to go                     * to Switzerland.                                      *
donnie		What about --                                        *
jordan		 -- keep calling, when the fuck picks up, set a meet with him in three business days.                                 *
naomi		We gotta go to London.                               *
jordan		Why?!
naomi		The funeral.
captain ted		I'm getting reports of some weather out there. Might run into some chop.
radio voice		Gale warning!    Gale warning!                       *
captain ted		The waves are twenty feet and building!
jordan		Can't you turn us around?!
captain ted		We'll get broad-sided and tip over!
radio voice		Gale warning!    Gale warning!
naomi		You happy now, you piece of shit?                    * We're gonna drown.                                   *
jordan		I'm a master diver. We will not                      * drown, I promise you. I got you,                     * baby.                                                *  The ludes! 116. The Wolf of Wall Street    Buff Revised Pages   3/5/13
donnie		What?
jordan		Get the fucking ludes!                               *
donnie		They're below deck! There's like three feet of water down there!
jordan		I can't die fucking sober!
naomi		What is he crazy? Where's he                         * going? Donnie!                                       *
captain ted		Jesus Christ!                                        *
time cut to:      *		Donnie returns with ludes - feeds to Jordan and then            * himself.                                                        *
jordan		What's happening?!                                   *
jordan		At the essence of every personal interaction, of every business transaction, of every effective human communication is PERSUASION... once you learn to control the linguistic encounter, you will be SHOCKED at what will happen... you are a person worth listening to, and taking it one step higher than that, you are someone who can help them achieve their goals...
man		I have here in my hand, framed, is a check for twenty-seven thousand four hundred and thirty-seven dollars and sixty-three cents that I netted from one deal after attending Jordan Belfort's, um, Straight Line Persuasion seminar.
jordan		There's nobody stopping you from                      * making millions. There is nobody                      * holding you back from financial                       * freedom.                                              *                                  * Don't just sit at home or the life                    * of your dreams will sail right                        * past you.                                             *
husband		Thanks to the Straight Line System, we could afford this home and now we're living the lives of our dreams.
jordan		So come to my seminar!! The life of your dreams is only a decision away --
jordan		Nay, thank God. I'm so glad you're here.
donnie		Hey, everybody! How're the happiest people in Long Island? Hi, Rocky!!  Hate that fucking dog.
jordan		Tell me about it. It's getting old, starting to shit inside the house again.
donnie		How you doing, brother?     How was the food in jail?
jordan		Lobster Newburg sucked.     They gave me some jewelry though.
donnie		Wonder if they got one in my size. Fuckin' Rugrat, that wig-wearin' hump. Tell you one thing: I'm never eating at Benihana's again. Where's Naomi?
jordan		Inside.    Pissed.
donnie		What's up her ass?
jordan		Had to mortgage the home to make bail. Probably gonna hafta sell it to pay my lawyers. If we fight this thing.
donnie		The Feds say anything about coming after the rest of us?
lucas solomon		Full cooperation. A comprehensive list of all coconspirators spanning the last seven years and he agrees to wear a wire.
jordan		You want me to rat?
agent denham		Talk normally, breathe normally, within five minutes you'll forget you even have it on.
jordan		The trial won't be for months, so obviously I'll be counting on you to pick up the slack.
donnie		Whatever you need, bro.     You know that.
jordan		And you know how much that means to me. Hey, you know what I wanted to ask you?
donnie		Uh... tell you the truth I was so fucked up, I don't really remember anything about that.
jordan		Well if you talk to him, let me know. You want the last yellowtail?
donnie		Why not?
violet		I'm sorry, Mr. Jordan.     You got a visitor.
agent denham		I need you to get dressed.
jordan		Why?   What's going on?
agent denham		You're going to jail.
jordan		Sorry, just out. What is that, forty-thirty?
****Dialogues from script :Wonder_Boys.txt****

grady		'The young girl sat perfectly still in the confessional...
grady		...listening to her father's boots scrape like chalk on the ancient steps of the church, then grow faint, then disappear altogether.'
carrie mcwhirty		I mean, Jesus. What is it with you Catholics?
grady		All right. Let's try to keep it constructive, shall we? Howard, what about you?
grady		That's not exactly what I meant by constructive, Howard.
grady		Yes, Hannah?
hannah green		I think maybe we're missing the point. It seems to me James' strength as a writer is that he doesn't take us by the hand. He treats us like adults. He respects us enough to forget us. That takes . . . courage .
grady		Well put, Hannah. And a good note to end on, I think.  Don't forget about WordFest this weekend. And remember: those of you driving V.I.P.s to tonight's cocktail party need to have them at
grady		Thanks for that. He all right?
hannah green		I think so. ..What about you?
grady		Me? Sure. Why?
hannah green		Just checking.
grady		Chancellor.
grady		I got the message you called too.
grady		How are you, Crabtree?
grady		 The more the merrier.
grady		I sweat blood for five years and he checks for spelling.
grady		Emily?
grady		Oh. We're picking her up. Downtown.
grady		Lay off Pittsburgh. It's one of the great cities.
grady		She's a transvestite.
grady		She's still a transvestite.
grady		Isn't she?
grady		It's fine. It's done. Basically. I'm just sort of. ..tinkering with it.
grady		I don't know. I'm sort of at a critical. . . juncture .
crabtree		I thought you were tinkering.
grady		I just mean. . .
crabtree		Forget I asked. I don't want to pressure you, Tripp. But...  ...I get pressure. Know what I mean?
crabtree		Ah. ..well now. What do you suppose that would be?
grady		That would be a tuba.
grady		That perfume you're wearing, Antonia. It wouldn't happen to be Cristaile, would it?
miss sloviak		Why yes. How did you know?
grady		Lucky guess.
crabtree		You didn't actually purchase this car, did you. Trip??
grady		It was Jerry Nathan's. He owed me money.
grady		He said something about being between things.
crabtree		Yeah, between a bookie and a pair of broken legs.
grady		Hi, Tanya.  This is Tanya. My wife's secretary.
grady		You're leaking, Tanya.
crabtree		Trip? ?
grady		She left me. Crabs.
crabtree		Left you...?  Who? Emily?
grady		This morning. I found a note in the kitchen.
crabtree		But. ..why didn't you say something, Tripp? I mean, what are we doing here?
grady		I thought maybe I made it all up.
miss sloviak		That's a nice greenhouse.
grady		It's Mrs. Gaskell's. Her hobby.
crabtree		I thought you were Mrs. Gaskell's hobby, Tripp.
grady		Piss off, Crabs. I lost a wife today.
crabtree		Oh, I'm sure you'll find another. You always do.
crabtree		Chancellor. Don't you look ravishing.
sara		Aren't you sweet to say so. I was beginning to wonder if you were ever going to--oh!
grady		Easy there.
sara		I'm sorry. It's these goddamned shoes. I don't know how anyone actually walks in these things.
miss sloviak		Practice.
sara		I don't believe we've met...
miss sloviak		Antonia. Antonia Sloviak--
sara		Poe!
crabtree		 This wouldn't be Walter's dog, would it?
miss sloviak		Who ' s he barking at now?
grady		He's still barking at me. He's blind.
sara		Poe' Hush! Now stop this. Honestly.
grady		I need to talk to you.
sara		That's funny. I need to talk to you, too.  Perhaps you could put some of these coats in the upstairs guest room, Professor Tripp.
grady		 I don't believe I know where the upstairs guest room is.
sara		Well then. I'd better show you. Terry--
crabtree		We'll just make ourselves at home.  Won't we, Poe? Yes, yes....
grady		New?
grady		All right. This morning--
grady		Well. This is...surprising. Does Walter... ?
sara		I think Walter would find this a little more than surprising.
grady		Emily left me this morning.
sara		She's left before...
grady		She's left the room before. She always came back.
sara		So. I guess we just divorce our spouses, marry each other, and have this baby, right? Simple.
grady		Simple.
sara		Is that Cristaile?
grady		Hm.
grady		If she's not now, Terry will make sure she is by the end of the evening.
sara		Has he asked to see the book yet?
grady		Yes.
sara		And? Are you going to tell him?
grady		No. Maybe. I don't know. I don't know what I'm going to do.
grady		Sara, my arm. I'm stuck, honey.
sara		I guess you're going to have to chew it off then.
crabtree		Walter! I see you've met my friend.
miss sloviak		 Walter's been telling me the most fascinating things about Marilyn Monroe and. ..who was it?
walter gaskell		Joe DiMaggio. Simply put, Antonia, it' s my contention that their marriage tapped into the very id of American popular culture. Joe DiMaggio represented, metaphorically speaking, the Husband as Slugger.. And, though it may be controversial, I personally believe every woman, in some way, desires to be Marilyn Monroe.
miss sloviak		Oh, I couldn't agree more.
grady		Ask him if he's conflicted about his house in the Hamptons.
hannah green		 Grady.
grady		Q,. Hannah's had two stories published in The Paris Review. You'd best dust off the 'A' material for her.
grady		Hello, Nathan.
short man		Douglas Triddly, Amherst. I kid you not when I say Arsonist's Daughter belongs in the pantheon of late twentieth century fiction. I've had it on my Graduate Studies syllabus three years running.
grady		 No wonder it's still in print.
walter		I could swear I had a '63 Chateau Latour in here. You haven't seen it, have you?
sara		I doubt I'd recognize a '63 Chateau Latour if I was sitting on it.
walter		You'd recognize it if you tasted it.
sara		I doubt it, darling.
walter		 Well, Q certainly will. And, given that he will be addressing 500 people in little over an hour...
sara		You want to keep him happy.
grady		James?
james leer		It was my mother's. She won it in a penny arcade in Baltimore when she was in Catholic school.
grady		It's very convincing.
james leer		It used to shoot these little paper caps, but they don't make them anymore. The caps.
james leer		It's just. ..for good luck. Some people carry rabbits' feet...
grady		...You carry firearms.
james leer		No, thank you. I don't like to lose control of my emotions.
james leer		I'm not supposed to be here, in case you were wondering. I crashed. I mean, not intentionally...
grady		Are you and Hannah seeing each other, James ?
grady		Relax, James. I'm not her father. I just rent her a room.
james leer		She likes old movies like I do, that's ail.  Besides, she doesn't really know me. She thinks she does, but she doesn't. Maybe it's because she's Mormon and I'm Catholic.
grady		Maybe it's because she's beautiful and she knows it and try as she might to not let that screw her up, it's inevitable that it will in some way.
james leer		You're not like my other teachers, Professor Tripp.
grady		You're not like my other students, James. So what was the movie you two saw?
james leer		Huh? Oh. Son or Fury. With Tyrone Power and Frances Farmer.
grady		She went crazy, Frances Farmer.
james leer		So did Gene Tierney. She's in it too.
grady		Sounds like a good one.
grady		Listen, James, about this afternoon. In workshop. I'm sorry. I think I let things get a bit out of control.
james leer		They really hated it. I think they hated it more than any of the other ones.
grady		Well...
james leer		It doesn't matter. It only took me an hour to write.
grady		 Really? That's remarkable.
james leer		I have trouble sleeping. While I'm lying in bed I figure them out. The stories.
grady		You cold, James?
grady		So what are you doing out here?
grady		 You're right.
james leer		Actually, I saw the greenhouse. So I thought ...I thought I'd come out here and take a look at it. You don't see one of those every day. It looks like heaven...
grady		Heaven?
james leer		I saw a movie once. Part of it took place in heaven. Everyone wore white and lived in crystal houses. Like that. At least that's the way I remember it...
grady		James.  Don't leave just yet. There's something I think you ought to see.
grady		This is worth it.
hannah green		Hey, you two.
grady		He's going with me. You take Crabtree. And his friend. All right?
hannah green		Ail right. By the way, his friend...?
grady		The answer's yes. I think. Yes. I don't know. Where are they exactly?
crabtree		Here we are!
crabtree		 Nell, hello there.
grady		James. This is my editor, Terry Crabtree.
hannah green		James'll know about George Sanders.
hannah green		Mr. CRABTREE was saying how George Sanders killed himself, only he couldn't remember how.
james leer		Pills. August 25, 1972. In a Costa Brava hotel room.
crabtree		How comprehensive of you.
hannah green		Oh, James is amazing. He knows all the movie suicides. Go ahead, James. Tell them who else.
hannah green		Just a few then. The big ones.
james leer		Pier Angeli, 1971 or '72, also pills. Charles Boyer, 1978, pills again. Charles Butterworth, 1946, I think. In a car. Supposedly it was an accident, but, you know. . .  He was distraught. Dorothy Dandridge, she took pills in, like, 1965. Albert Dekker, 1968, he hung himself. He wrote his suicide note in lipstick on his stomach. Alan Ladd, '64, more pills, Carole Landis, pills again, I forget when. George Reeves, Superman on TV, shot himself. Jean Seberg/ pills of course, 1979. Everett Sioane-- he was good--pills. Margaret Sullavan, pills, Lupe Velez, a lot of pills. Gig Young. He shot himself and his wife in 1978. There are more but I don't know if you would have heard of them. Ross Alexander? Clara Blandick? Maggie McNamara? Gia Scaia?
hannah green		I haven't heard of half of those.
crabtree		You did them alphabetically.
james leer		That's just how my brain works, I guess.
crabtree		Fascinating. Listen, why don't you come out with us after the lecture. There's a place on the Hill I always get Trip to take me.
james leer		Actually. ..I just want to go home.
crabtree		Oh, don't be silly. No one your age just wants to go home. Besides, faculty will be present. Just think of it as a field trip.
grady		That's really it.
james leer		The one she wore on her wedding day?
grady		So I'm told.
grady		 Go ahead.
grady		Really.
james leer		They're glass. The buttons.
grady		Like the lady herself.
james leer		She was small. Most people don't know that. The shoulders are small.  It looks so perfect. I bet it's the only time she wore it. That day. She must've felt so ...happy.
james leer		It's feels unreal, like butterfly wings or... something. It must've cost Dr. Gaskell a lot.
grady		I guess. Walter never tells Sara the truth about how much he pays for these things.
james leer		You're really good friends with the Chancellor, aren't you?
grady		 Pretty good. I'm friends with Dr. Gaskell, too.
james leer		I guess you must be, if you know the combination to his closet and he doesn't mind your being here in their bedroom like this.
grady		Right.
grady		We, better skedaddle. Close that closet-- James? You ail right?
james leer		I'm sorry. Professor Tripp. Maybe it's seeing that jacket that belonged to her. It just looks...really lonely. Hanging there. In a closet. Maybe I'm just a little sad.
grady		Maybe. I'm feeling a little sad myself tonight.
grady		Yes. Well. It's complicated, James. I think we should go now.
grady		Okay. Easy now. Eee-zy. . . .
grady		Jesus!
grady		Get off of me, you son-of-a-bitch!
grady		Shit, James. You shoe Dr. Gaskell's dog.
grady		Couldn't you've just pulled him off me?
james leer		No! He was crazy. I didn't-he looked-- 1 thought --
grady		Okay, okay. Take it easy. Don't freak out on me.
james leer		Do you have a mirror? It's the best way to see if someone's breathing.
grady		He's dead, James. Believe me, I know a dead dog when I see one.
james leer		What are we going to do?
grady		First you're going to give me that little cap gun of yours.
james leer		Professor Tripp? Can I  ask you a question?
grady		Yea, James.
grady		I don't know. I'm still trying to figure out how to tell the Chancellor I murdered her husband's dog.
james leer		You?
grady		Trust me, James, when the family pet's been assassinated, the owner doesn't want to hear one of her students was the triggerman.
james leer		Does she want to hear it was one of her professors?
grady		I've got tenure.
grady		Okay.
james leer		He's still a little warm.
grady		 That's just what they used to say in the ads. Come on, Crabtree, I know you're holding...
james leer		Whose tuba is that anyway?
grady		Miss Sloviak's.
james leer		Can I ask you something about her?
grady		She is. Ah. Here we go...
james leer		Oh. So. Is--is your friend Crabtree-- is he-- gay?
grady		Most of the time he is, James. Some of the time he isn't. Now what do we have here?
grady		Looks like ...our old friend Mr. Codeine. That should take the pinch out of my ankle.  Have one.
james leer		No thanks. I'm fine without them.
grady		Right. That's why you were standing in the Chancellor's back yard twirling that little cap gun of yours tonight.  You're fine, all right, you're fit as a fucking fiddle.
grady		I'm sorry, James. I'm sorry I said that.
grady		How 'bout we try that again.
walter		...really needs no introduction. Walk down the aisle of any airplane or by the pool of any hotel and you'll see his face beaming back at you. You all know the name, you all know the books, so welcome if you will, the man those of us who know him simply call.. .Q.
grady		I'll be right back.
sara		You had another one, didn't you? You have to see a doctor, Grady. First thing Monday morning. All right?
grady		Is the thing-is it over?
grady		Nothing. I think I twisted my--
grady		I have to tell you something. Something.. .hard.
sara		Then stand up. I'm too old for all this roiling around on the floor.
grady		Well...
sara		Don't. I know what you're going to say.
grady		No, really, Sara, I don't think you--
sara		You love Emily. I know that. And you need to stay with her.
grady		I don't think I really have a choice in, that. Emily left me.
sara		She'll come back. That's why I'm going to. ..to not have this baby.
grady		Not have it.
sara		No. There's no way. I mean, don't you think there's no way?
grady		Well, no, I don't see any way.  And I know how hard it is for you to-- to lose this chance.
sara		 ...for saying there's just no way. Because there could be a way, Grady.
sara		 He must be finishing. We should go.
sara		Who's gun is that?
grady		It's-it's a souvenir. Of Baltimore.
sara		Heavy. Smells like gunpowder.
grady		Caps.
grady		You got me.
sara		I love you, Grady.
grady		I love you, too.
james leer		Woah! The doors made so much noise!
james leer		This is so embarrassing! You guys had to carry me out.
grady		Is he ail right?
crabtree		 He's fine. He's narrating.
sara		Terry CRABTREE and James Leer. Leave it to you to make that mistake, wait here.
miss sloviak		I need a ride.
grady		I'm your man.
grady		There's an explanation.
miss sloviak		Couldn't he have just thrown a shoe at the poor thing?
grady		James is. ..I don't know...
miss sloviak		Disturbed. And when your friend CRABTREE gets done with him, he's going to be even more disturbed.
grady		I'm not sure that's possible.
miss sloviak		Sure it is.
grady		Listen, Antonia--
miss sloviak		Tony. Now that I'm home.
grady		Tony. I'm sorry if things didn't work out so well for you tonight. With Terry.
miss sloviak		Forget it. I should've known better. Your friend is just, I don't know, into collecting weird tricks. Mind?
grady		He's writing his name in water.
miss sloviak		What's that?
grady		Like most editors, he really wants to be a writer, but he's too busy living a novel to bother writing one.
miss sloviak		That sounds like a fancy excuse for being a shit.
grady		He'd call it habit. But now. ..I get the feeling he's going through the motions a bit.
miss sloviak		You mean because his career's ruined and all?
grady		Jesus. Is that what he told you?
miss sloviak		He said he hasn't had a success in ten years and everyone in New York thinks he's kind of .a. . .
miss sloviak		...loser. But I'm sure your book is so good that he'll be able to keep his job.
miss sloviak		 Turn here.
grady		That'' s nice. All we have is a Japanese beetle trap.
miss sloviak		It's a bathtub. What she's standing under.
miss sloviak		There's Pop.  Let me see it. The gun.
miss sloviak		Figures. It's like the kind of gun Bette Davis would carry. In a little beaded purse?
grady		I'd better go. I think I may have to rescue James Leer.
miss sloviak		You know, Grady, if I were you. I'd think about going home. You look like you need a little rescuing yourself.
grady		As a whistle.
grady		Double Dickel on the rocks.
grady		Is that just beer?
crabtree		Primarily. Although I gather you two staged a little raid on the CRABTREE pharmacopoeia. You missed a few bottles, by the way.
grady		I'm sure. Where is everyone?
crabtree		Sara and Walter declined. Guess they wanted to go home and curl up on the couch with the dog.
grady		Jesus. He's out.
crabtree		He has a book.
grady		I know. He started it Fall semester.
crabtree		He finished it Winter Break.
crabtree		So. Is he any good?
grady		No. Not yet he isn't.
crabtree		Well, I'm going to read it anyway.
grady		Come on. Crabs. Don't do this. He's . one o my students, for Christ sake. I'm not even sure if he's-
crabtree		He is. Take my word for it.
grady		I think it's more complicated than that. Besides, he's a little...scattered. He almost ...did something stupid tonight. At least, I think so. Anyway, he doesn't need sexual confusion thrown into the stew right now.
crabtree		On the contrary, it 'could be just the ticket.
grady		Thanks.
crabtree		No sexual confusion there, eh, Professor?
grady		Shut up and drink.
crabtree		Oh my goodness. Do you see what I see?
grady		 He's a boxer. A flyweight.
crabtree		Huh uh. A jockey. His name's, um, Curtis.. .Curtis Hardapple.
grady		Not Curtis.
crabtree		Vernon, then. Vernon Hardapple. The scar's are from a--from a horse. He fell during a race and got trampled.
grady		And now he's addicted to painkillers.
crabtree		He can't piss standing up anymore.
grady		He lives with his mother.
crabtree		And he had a younger brother who . . .was . . . a. . .
grady		Groom. Named Claudell.  And his mother blames Vernon for his death.
crabtree		 Because. . .because. . .
james leer		Vernon, over there, was in on the hit.
crabtree		That was good.
grady		He heard everything we were saying.
hannah green		Come on. Teach. I want you to dance with me.
hannah green		I've been re-reading Arsonist's Daughter. It's so beautiful, Grady. So natural. It's like ail your sentences always existed, just waiting around in Style Heaven, or wherever, for you to fetch them down.
grady		I thank you.
hannah green		And I love the inscription you wrote to me. Only I'm not quite the downy innocent you think I am.
grady		I hope that isn't true. We need all the downy innocents we can get.
hannah green		So what are you going to do?
grady		Do?
hannah green		I just mean, I--I guess Emily isn't going to be there when you get home.
grady		Are you holding me up or am I dragging you down?
hannah green		Shush.
grady		Look, Hannah. When you get him home ...make sure he's ail right. Before you leave. Okay?
hannah green		I would if I knew where I was taking him.
grady		Hannah, are you telling me you don't know where James Leer lives?
hannah green		Some apartment somewhere. But I've never seen it.
grady		That strikes me as odd.
hannah green		James is odd. I know he has an aunt in Sewickley Heights. I dropped him there once, but...  Come to think of it, it-wasn't even his Aunt's house. He said she worked there. Or something. I don't remember.
grady		What's he saying?
hannah green		His bag. You know that ratty green thing he's always carrying around. He must've left it inside.
grady		Hh-uh. Last time I saw it was...
grady		Shit. He must've left it back at Thaw. In the auditorium.
james leer		 Mmrrmmm.. .KNAP SAP!
hannah green		The one in your office? It's the best one .for naps.
grady		I don't think it really matters, Hannah. We could probably stand him up in the garage with the snow shovels at this point.
grady		Ail right. In my office.
hannah green		Hey. If you want to talk later...I'll be up.
grady		Excuse me?
vernon hardapple		This 1966 maroon Ford Galaxie 500. You driving this car?
grady		It's mine.
grady		You must be mistaken.
grady		Go home to your mother, Vernon.
grady		Christ, Crabs, what do you expect me to do? The kid's practically in a coma.
crabtree		Tripp.
grady		Yes.
crabtree		Hit your brakes.
grady		What's this guy's problem?
crabtree		Just go around him.
grady		Shit.
crabtree		Back up. Go out the other way.
grady		Now what?
grady		I just had my car jumped on.
grady		Wait here. I'll be right back.
crabtree		Where would we go?
grady		I hope it wasn't my fault.
traxler		 No. I guess you're here for the backpack.
grady		Oh.. .yeah.
traxler		I saw the manuscript inside. So when you showed up, I figured. . .
grady		 I don't know. It might be...
traxler		Say, Professor Tripp, is ail that stuff true about Errol Flynn? How he used to put coke on his dick. To make himself, you know, like, last longer?
grady		Christ, Traxler. How the hell should I know?
grady		Oh, right. Yeah, that's true. He used to rub ail kinds of things on it. Paprika. Ground lamb.
traxler		Wow, check out that greenhouse. Is that your wife?
grady		No, my wife's out of town.
grady		Her husband.
traxler		What exactly are we doing here, Professor Tripp?
grady		 Taking the long way home.
grady		You're welcome.
grady		James I
grady		I'm okay. I just lost my balance.
grady		Oh.
james leer		I thought you might--l don't know-- swallow your tongue or something.  I guess you really miss her, huh?
grady		Huh? Oh, no. This isn't Emily's. I just write in it.
james leer		I guess there's probably a story behind that.
grady		There is, but it's not that interesting.
grady		Sure.
grady		Who?
grady		What'd he say?
james leer		He wanted to know if a GRADY Trip? lived here and drove a dark maroon 1966 Ford Galaxie 500 with black interior.
grady		What'd you tell him?
james leer		Yes.
grady		Good, James. If the Zodiac killer calls, be sure to mention the back door pops open with a couple hard shakes to the right.
james leer		I thought maybe you'd won a radio contest or something. Is that single-spaced?
grady		Afraid so.
james leer		That's a big book you're writing.
grady		I think it's sort of writing itself at this point.
james leer		Wow, Hannah always swore you were working, but--
grady		But . . . ?
james leer		Nothing, it's just that,, well, it's been awhile since Arsonist's Daughter, and some people--some of the kids in workshop--thought maybe you were...
grady		Washed up?
grady		Ah. I don't believe in writer's block.
james leer		No kidding.
crabtree		Good morning, boys. James.
grady		 If-you 're planning on staying for breakfast, I'd put on something a little less comfortable if I were you.
grady		Hm.
grady		No one seems to know where you live, James. Hannah thought you'd like my couch.
james leer		And ...and before that. Did I do anything? Anything bad?
grady		Well, James, you did shoot the Head of the English Department's dog and steal his most prized piece of memorabilia.
grady		Do yourself a favor, James ...Hide.
officer pupcik		Good morning...  Professor Tripp? Sorry to bother you, sir, but I understand you attended an event at Sara and Walter Gaskell's house last night and were one of the last to leave...
grady		Well, there's always people you don't know at these things, but I can't say there was anybody particularly suspicious. ..Wait. There was one guy. Tiny fella. Claimed to be a jockey.
grady		Horses, right. Vernon something...  Hardpple
grady		I could be wrong. What happened anyway?
officer pupcik		Huh? Oh, someone pulled a B&E on Dr. Gaskell's closet. And the dog's missing.
grady		That's weird.
officer pupcik		We figure the perpetrator let him out. He's blind and we figure he just wandered off and got run over.
grady		The perpetrator.
officer pupcik		No, the dog.
grady		Just kidding.
officer pupcik		One other thing. About this kid, this student of yours- Leer--James Leer. You wouldn't know how I could get in touch with him, would you?
grady		I might have his number on campus.
hannah green		I thought we were going to talk. Last night.
grady		Oh. Well. I...
hannah green		It's okay. ..I'm here when you want me.
grady		Hello?
sara's voice		Grady, it's Sara. Thank God you're there. You won't believe what's happened.
grady		Could you hold on a minute, honey?
grady		How 'bout we get the hell out of here?
grady		You start her up.
james leer		 How's that?
grady		Well done, James.
james leer		You're bleeding. Professor Tripp.
grady		Where exactly do you live, James?
grady		Apparently not even Hannah Green has a clue as to the location of your apartment.
james leer		I got kicked out. Well, not exactly kicked out. I was asked to leave.
grady		I guess there's probably a story behind that.
james leer		There is, but it's not that interesting.
grady		So where have you been staying?
james leer		It's not -so bad. I know the night janitor. And there's a broken locker I can put my stuff.
grady		 But James. I mean. ..How long?
james leer		A couple weeks. That's why... that's why I had the gun. For protection.
grady		Jesus, James, you should've told someone.
grady		I don't know...  Me.
grady		Hm.
grady		You better ease off that stuff, James. It's pretty acidic.
james leer		I can't help myself. I don't know what's the matter with me.
grady		Shit, James, you're hungover. What do you think's the matter with you?
grady		Totally.  I'm sorry. A lot was happening this morning. Can you talk?
sara		Walter's on campus, being the good soldier for WordFest. But he's a basket case. Someone stole Marilyn's jacket last night. And Poe's missing, too.
grady		I-heard.
grady		A twelve-year-old policeman came by the house this morning.
sara		Your fingerprints were all over the bedroom.
grady		Oh. Right. Ha. Listen, about last night. There is something I need to tell...
sara		Are you limping? Why are you limping?
grady		Hub? Oh, well, that's part of what I need to . . .
sara		Did you pass out again, Grady? Did you fall somewhere?
grady		No. I mean. Well, actually, yes. Sort of. I don't remember. Listen, Sara, I have to tell you something.
grady		I...
sara		Gee, Grady, that sounded so heartfelt.  I don't know whether to swoon or smirk.
grady		Really, Sara, I...
sara		I believe you. I believe you want to be with me. But this is not just about me anymore.
grady		I know that. I know what's at stake here...
sara		No, I don't think you do. And besides... I haven't decided yet.
grady		About the baby.
sara		I'm not going to draw the map for you on this one, Grady. Times like these you have to do your own navigating.
sara		Who's that sitting in your car?
grady		James Leer.
grady		I'm sort of helping him work through some issues.
james leer		She seemed to take it pretty well.
grady		Yeah, well, actually. . .
grady		Don't be proud, James. We're in Sewickley Heights. We could find you a nice golf course to barf on.
grady		Your aunt ?
grady		 Maybe...
james leer		It's my father. He gets it from his doctor.
grady		Glaucoma?
grady		Jesus, James. Wow.
james' leer		It's a bit of a scandal. My parents live in a small town.
grady		Where's that?
james leer		Carvel.
grady		Carvel? Where's Carvel?
grady		I never heard of it.
james leer		It's a hellhole. Three motels and a mannequin factory. My dad worked there for thirty-five years.
grady		Your father worked in a mannequin factory?
james leer		Seitz Plastics. That's where he met my morn. She was a fry cook in the cafeteria. Before that, she'd been a dancer.
grady		What kind of dancer? .
james leer		Whatever kind they wanted her to be.
james leer		I'm telling you what I was told by my uncle. And he should know. He ran half a dozen men's clubs in Baltimore before he skipped town on a bad debt.
grady		Didn't you say your Mom went to Catholic school?
grady		Amazing.
james leer		Maybe I just needed the moment to present itself.
james leer		This is so nice. It's like where Andy Hardy would live. What's it called again?
grady		Kinship.
james leer		Kinship. And what's here?
grady		Unless I miss my bet...my wife.
grady		That's right. That one.
james leer		Someone jumped on your car with their butt ..-
grady		How can you tell?
james leer		You can see the outline of a butt.
grady		Smoke the rest of that joint, James, and you can start on the box.
james leer		Maybe she didn't come here.
grady		She came here. We'll just wait. In the meantime, I need you to shimmy through.
grady		Relax. Emily hasn't carried a house key since she was twelve years old. And your hips are as slim as hers.
james leer		It's not that. It just reminded me of-- you know-of what's in the car. In the trunk.
grady		 Oh. Right. Well, let's try not to think about that.
grady		I know. It's the house you want to wake up in on Christmas morning.  Make yourself at home. I'll be right back.
george sanders		There's no such thing as a good influence, Mr. Gray. All influence is immoral...
grady		 Yes, I' m looking for the Chancellor... I don't know. She should be in the main hall ...Thank you.
grady		Sara? Hi. It's Grady.
sara's voice		Where are you, Grady? An elevator?
grady		I'm in Kinship. Listen, Sara, there's some things we need to talk about...
sara's voice		 You're in Kinship?
grady		Yes. But that's not why I called...
sara's voice		With Emily?
grady		What? No'. There's no one here. I'm just ...just....
sara's voice		Just what? Doing a little dusting?
grady		 James! For Christ sake, will you turn that thing down!
sara's voice		James? He's still with you?
grady		Look, Sara. ..I'm not here. ..I'm not here to . . .
sara's voice		Are you there to not reconcile with her?
grady		No. Sara, you don't understand...
sara's voice		Trust me, I understand. I just want to say something to you, Grady.
grady		 Yea?
sara's voice		How you choose to live your own life is your business. But you be careful with that boy, Grady. With James. He belongs to somebody else.
grady		Mom. Dad.
hank		Well, it's infected, I can tell you that. I'm just going to clean it up a bit. It's up to you to-find someone who knows what they're doing. Here. Put your foot up.
hank		So he's one of your students, this boy?
grady		Yes. He's a good kid. Maybe a little messed up.
hank		Well, I'm sure with the proper guidance he'll be fine.
grady		What made you pull out that old thing?
hank		 I was thinking of you.
grady		And?
hank		It's no Arsonist's Daughter, but I guess you know that. It's a young man's book. It got me remembering how it felt to be young.
grady		Maybe I should read it.
hank		Oh, I don't think there's any danger of you aging prematurely, Grady.
grady		Where's Emily, Hank?
hank		I 'don't know if she'd want me  to tell you that, Grady.
grady		I'm not going to stalk her. Hank. I just. ..want to know where I stand.
hank		Where you stand?
grady		 l-just want to say I'm sorry.
hank		She's in Philadelphia seeing Linda Aahby. The neurologist.
grady		Neurologist? Why? What's wrong?
hank		 Nothing's wrong. They went to Wellesley together.
grady		 Oh. Right. Linda ...I haven't been doing a lot of sleeping lately. My editor's in town and I have the book to finish and--
hank		Ah, right. The book.
grady		Listen, Hank, I'm sorry about ail this. I didn't come here to upset you and Irene. I want you to know that.
hank		Why did you come here, Grady?
grady		I -just wanted to see her, I guess-- Emily. And to see you too-you and Irene. And to let everyone know that, even though it may be difficult to comprehend now, this-everything that's happening-it's not forever. It doesn't mean "Goodbye."
hank		Give me a break, Grady.
hank		You're done.
james leer		I'm having a really good time, Professor Tripp.
grady		I'm really happy for you, James. But do me a favor, will you? Lay off my dope. That stuff's not for amateurs.
grady		 I just wanted a little sip? Tell me, James, exactly what point was it that you turned into Serpent Boy?
james leer		Probably about the time you gave me the codeine pills last night.
grady		Jesus...  ...we abstain.
grady		What?
james leer		You're mad because I shot your girlfriend's dog.
grady		It wasn't her dog. It's her husband's--  Who said anything about girlfriend?
grady		Okay, James, I wish you hadn't shot my girlfriend's dog. Even though Poe and I weren't exactly what you'd call simpatico, that's no reason for him to take two in the chest. Still, the fact remains that I'm the one who took you up into the Chancellor's bedroom. I'm the one who has to take the blame. I- don't know what the hell I was thinking.
james leer		Sure you do. You were thinking: 'That's no cap gun in that kid's overcoat.' You were thinking 'I can't let that kid get on. the bus alone-he might never get on the bus again.' You were thinking: 'I've got to find a way to distract this kid. ' So you did. It was--in its way--a noble act.
grady		Thanks for the halo, James, but I've . never done that much thinking ahead in my" life-ever.
james leer		So, why did you take me up there?
grady		 Why do you wear that coat?
grady		James, fall semester, first day of class, it was 95 degrees and you were wearing the coat.
grady		That's why they all give you such a hard time in workshop.
grady		Because you act like a goddamn spook all the time. Not to mention the fact that every last one of them is jealous of you.
grady		Not you. Your talent.
grady		The hell I am.
james leer		Yes you are. My stuff stinks. I know it. You said so yourself.
grady		I never said that.
james leer		Yes you did. Last night. To your friend Crabtree. "Is he any good?" he said. And you said: "Not yet he isn't." I heard you myself.
grady		I didn't mean it that way.
james leer		It's okay, Professor Tripp. Carrie, Howard, the others--they 're right. My stories are annoying. They go on and on and on, and the longer they go on the more annoying they become, until finally you just want to grab something heavy and--
grady		Shut up, James. You're annoying. Carrie and Howard don't know what the fuck they're talking about, okay? The entire class combined- including the lovely Hannah Green-has about one tenth of one percent the talent you have, okay?
grady		Who cares what-. I said last night, James I I was drunk, I was stoned. I'd been bitten by a dog. My wife had left me. How 'bout cutting me some slack?
grady		And don't be so goddamn sensitive. Who cares what anybody thinks anyway? You want to .be a good writer? You want to be-a great writer? Then stop giving a damn what other people think. Most of them haven't thought in .years.
grady		Let me spell it .out for you, James. Books don't mean anything. Not to anybody. Not anymore.
james leer		Arsonist's Daughter meant something.
james leer		I mean it. It means something to me. It's one of the reasons I came to school here. To be in your class. To be taught by you.  It's one of the reasons I wanted to become a writer.
grady		Well, for that, if nothing else, James, I'm sorry.
james leer		You coming?
grady		In a minute. Get us a table.
grady		C-a-r-v-e-I. That's right, Carvel. Yes, I'm sure. It's outside Scranton.
grady		You have no listing. Okay, well, lady-- at this very moment, as we speak, I'm looking of a resident of Carvel, Pennsylvania. I think he'd be pretty interested to learn that the good people of Bell Atlantic have misplaced his entire hometown. It's not like I'm making this up as I go along--
grady		No thanks.
james leer		That's why you're having them. Your spells.
grady		Spells? Jesus, James, you make it sound like we're in a Tennessee Williams play. I don't have spells.
grady		I don't know. ...'Episodes.'
james leer		It's because you don't eat.
grady		I eat.
james leer		When?
grady		When nobody's looking.
james leer		 I just worry about you, that's all.
grady		You just worry about yourself, James. Okay?
james leer		Okay.
grady		Nowhere. You just sit here and... eat.
man		 Professor Tripp?
grady		Grady.
man		Fred Leer. This is my wife Amanda.
grady		 Looks like I've dashed a-wonderful evening.
fred leer		Hardly.
amanda leer		We were on our way to a benefit. But, as luck would have it, the club was on the way, so...  We were able to put in an appearance.
fred leer		Otherwise we would've been here earlier.
grady		Ah. Well, that's ail right. James and I 'had a little dinner.
fred leer		Well, certainly we'll reimburse you.
grady		That's not necessary. I just felt. ..it might be good for James to be with his family this weekend.
fred leer		Well, of course, we can understand that.
grady		Well. Let me go get him.
james leer		I'm not going with them..
grady		James. Listen. Things-things are a little weird with me right now and I-- well--I have enough blame to shoulder these days without having to take the blame if something bad happened to you. And if you hang around me long enough, something bad is going to happen, trust me. That's why I need you to go home. Understand?
grady		James, like it or not, they're your parents.
james leer		Parents? They're not my parents. They're my grandparents. My parents are dead.
james leer		I swear. My father had his own airplane he used to fly up to Quebec. One Christmas, he and my mom were flying up to our house in the Laurentians when the plane went down. It was in the newspaper.
james leer		I 'swear. My father was a senior vice president at Dravo. My mother was a socialite. Her maiden name was Guggenheim.
grady		I remember that. Five or six years ago.
james leer		Six. Their plane went down right outside Scranton.
james leer		I'm sorry about all that. I just-I don't like to talk about my family. They treat me like a freak. 
grady		James, come on. That man is obviously your father. You look just like him.
james leer		There's a reason for that.
grady		Get out of here.
james leer		That's why she hates me. That's why she makes me sleep in the basement.
grady		In the crawl space, with the rats and the casks of Amontillado. Come on. Up.
grady		Take care of him.
amanda leer		Oh, don't worry. We'll take care of him. You can be sure of that.
grady		Hey!
grady		 Crabtree.
grady		 Hey.
hannah green		Grady!
hannah green		 I know I shouldn't have, but there it was, just sort of lying out, and I couldn't resist and-and--I suck.
grady		No, it's okay. I just can't believe I left it out in the open like that. CRABTREE hasn't been in here, has he? Poking around?
hannah green		I don't know--maybe- I don't think so.
grady		Listen, Hannah. You don't remember where that aunt worked, do you? James' aunt.
hannah green		He shot the Chancellor's dog, didn't he? The blind one.
grady		Actually, He's not the Chancellor' s--What?
hannah green		At first the police thought he just ran away, but this afternoon Dr. Gaskell found some blood spots on the carpet -
grady		Jesus.
hannah green		CRABTREE said it sounded like something James would be messed up in.
grady		Crabtree? He doesn't even know James.
hannah green		Who does?
grady		The aunt, Hannah. Where did you take James that day?
hannah green		I told you, Sewickly Heights.
grady		But where? I need the street.
hannah green		I don't know, Grady. I just dropped him on a corner.
grady		Shit.
hannah green		No! Don't go. I've been waiting ail night for you.
grady		Listen, Hannah, I'm flattered, really, but right now I--
crabtree		 Tripp, where the hell. . .
grady		You stay there.
crabtree		What? Ohhhh. Is that... it?
crabtree		Honestly, Tripp. Do you actually think I would sneak in here and read your book without asking you?
grady		Gee, I don't know. Crabs. I don't seem to remember you actually asking me if you could invite 200 people over to trash my living room.
crabtree		Sometimes we have to improvise.
grady		 Think, Hannah. Does James have any friends. I mean, besides you and. ..me?
crabtree		James? My James? What's happened?
grady		Nothing, he's just been sort of, I don't know.. .kidnapped.
crabtree		Kidnapped? By who?
grady		His parents.
crabtree		Good God. Let's go rescue him.
grady		Good idea. Crabs. Only one problem. I don't know where they live.
crabtree		Ah. Wait a minute. The university must know where he lives.
grady		It's a little late to call Admissions.
crabtree		Is it a little late to call the Chancellor?
grady		Maybe ...I don't know.
hannah green		Two-sixty-two Baxter Drive.
crabtree		You know--based on what I've read-- this is a very exciting piece of material, this Big Parade.
grady		Love. It's Love facade--and what do you mean 'based on what you've read'? You skimmed two chapters at 80 miles an hour while gargling methamphetamines.
crabtree		I've been doing this a long time, Tripp. I feel this kid in my bones.
grady		Only in your bones?
crabtree		No. I think I might be right. I've felt it before...
grady		How bad is it for you?
crabtree		Bad enough. And God knows I don't exactly fit the new corporate profile.
grady		Which is?
crabtree		Competence.
grady		What's to tell?
crabtree		Plenty, I'm sure. But, for what it's worth...
crabtree		...I like her.
grady		Me too.
grady		This is it.
crabtree		Jesus. There must be two dozen windows on . that thing. How are we-supposed to find his?
grady		I told you. They keep him chained in the basement. Come on.
crabtree		Doris Day.
james leer		Hey. What are you guys doing here?
crabtree		We're springing you. Leer. Get some pants on.
grady		I can't believe you made fun of my robe.
crabtree		I like what you've done with it. When's Captain Nemo moving in?
grady		Oh, Christ, don't start on ol' Gran or we'll leave you here.
crabtree		Hey, I heard all about it--the parents, the grandparents, the China town thing-- and I believe you, okay? That's why we're here. Now go get dressed.
james leer		Can I--I mean--do you mind--if I wear this again. Professor Tripp?
grady		Ah, wear whatever you want.
crabtree		So modest.
grady		So sensitive.
crabtree		 Oh, come on, Tripp. Cut the kid some slack.
grady		It's just ail that crap he spins out. Just once I'd like to know if the little bastard is telling the truth.
crabtree		The-truth. I know that's always been real important to you. Key, check this out...
crabtree		Finally, the door opened. It-was a shock to: see him, shuffling into the room like an aging prizefighter. Limping. Beaten.'  ...and muttered simply, "It means nothing. All of it. Nothing," that the true shock came. It was then that the boy understood that his hero's true injuries lay hidden in a darker place. His heart...'
grady		Yes? 'His heart...'
crabtree		'His heart, once capable of inspiring others so completely, could no longer inspire so much as itself. It beat now only out of habit. It beat now only because it could. '
crabtree		He's great. Come on, let's blow before ol' Gran decides to boil your bones for breakfast.
james leer		Oh, well, that's just it. She's been coming down here, every half hour or so, to, sort of, check on me. If I'm not here, she might ...call the police or.. .something.
crabtree		Hhhuh. So we decoy her. Stick a couple pillows and one of your teddy bears under the spread and she won't know the difference.
grady		No.
grady		I've got something better than a teddy bear.
grady		Sweet dreams, Jimmy.
crabtree		Things must've picked up after we left.
grady		Crabtree.
crabtree		 Ye-es?
grady		Nothing.
grady		How are you--is it Joe?
goatee kid		Jeff. Sorry. I didn't even know this was your house until about an hour ago.
grady		Don't sweat it. Well. 'Night, Jeff.
goatee kid		Oh, Professor Tripp? You know, last semester, what I said that time in office hours-I hope there's no hard feelings.
grady		No...
goatee kid		I mean, I was breaking up with this girl at the time and my car was ail fucked up and-- well--I was pretty bent in general.
grady		It's cool, Jeff. Really.
goatee kid		I just want you to know that's why I dropped your class and said all that shit about the university stealing my money and you being a pseudo-Faulknerian nobody.
grady		Walter?
grady		It's Grady, Walter.
grady		GRADY Tripp. English Department.
walter's voice		I know it's you, Grady, I just... Christ, Grady, do you know what time it -is?
grady		 I have ...eight-fifteen. That's not right, is it?
grady		This is important.
grady		I... I...
grady		I'm in love with your wife.
grady		Sara. I'm in love with her.
walter's voice		Are you drinking. Professor Tripp? Right now.
grady		No.
walter's voice		Nevertheless, I'd like to see you in my office Monday morning.
grady		Sara.
sara		I tried to call, but apparently there's something wrong...
grady		Oh?
sara		It seems one of our students is - missing and his parents found a dead dog in his bed.
grady		 I'm sorry, Sara. I've been trying to tell you. It's all my-
sara		I'm not very happy with you right now, Grady. But more importantly, Walter's not very happy and he's gotten the police involved. They seem to think James Leer is somehow responsible for all of this. You wouldn't happen to know where James is, would you, Grady?
grady		Inside.
grady		Over there. In the backseat of the...
sara		Grady.
grady		Honestly. Someone stole my car. I parked it right there last night.
sara		Are you sure you parked it there?
grady		Of course, I'm sure.  Ah, Christ, the puberty police are back.
sara		I'll deal with this. You dig up James.
grady		 Is he awake?
crabtree		I'm afraid he's pretty worn out, poor kid.
grady		Nevertheless. There's a police officer standing on the porch and I don't think he's going away.
james leer		 That same guy?
crabtree		So I hear.
crabtree		He's right, you look horrible.
grady		Thank you, Frankie and Annette.
crabtree		Ah, right. Well, I gave you my opinion.
grady		And we both thank you for that, but we're... we're... fine.
james leer		I'm fine, right. Fit as a fucking fiddle.
grady		Shut up, James.
crabtree		So what's the problem?
grady		 There is no problem. Did I say there was a problem?
crabtree		Who's that?
grady		Who do you think it is?
crabtree		The Chancellor's here? Now?
grady		Evidently.  Coming!
james leer		Does she mean--does she know about ...her dog?
grady		It's Walter's dog and yes, she does. Know. But let's spare her the details. Come on, your shoes are in the hail.
crabtree		James. This book of yours. It's not bad. Not bad at all.
crabtree		You're welcome.
crabtree		I want to publish this.  I've got to.  I think they'll let me.  With a little editorial guidance it could be brilliant.
grady		Great. Between you and Officer Pupcik out there he can be the next Jean Genet. It's been awhile since somebody wrote a good book in jail.
pupcik		As I told the Chancellor, Professor, I'm. just going to run James here over to the university. It'll be up to Dr. Gaskell where we go from there.
grady		Don't worry, James, I'll figure something out.
james leer		I'm not worried. You're not worried, are you. Professor Tripp?
grady		I'm a little worried, James.
grady		Well, let's see if we can keep that from happening.
james leer		Professor Tripp...?
grady		Yes, James.
james leer		Even if I end up going to jail....
sara		This is not what the university has in mind when it promises a liberal education, Grady.
grady		Would Walter really press charges?
sara		It's within the realm. He takes his souvenirs pretty seriously. And he was just a wee bit prickly this morning.
grady		I think I might have.
sara		And what do you think you might have said?
grady		I think I might've said I was in love with you.
grady		And what did you say?
sara		I said it didn't sound like you.
crabtree		So- what do we do now? ,
grady		Find the jacket.
crabtree		Oh' huh. Exactly how do we do that?
grady		First I see if Hannah will let me borrow her car.
crabtree		It seems to me that girl would let you borrow her pancreas.
goatee kid		I'm telling you, the tango is ail about latent homosexual love. Look at the way they dance-- it's sodomy.
hannah green		 Stop it.
hannah green		Grady. Hi. What's up?
goatee kid		I'll be ...somewhere else.
grady		Hey, Jeff. If you're really interested in discussing that business with the tango, try the guy at the end of the hall.
grady		He cribbed that from Borges.
hannah green		It beats 'What's your major?'
grady		Right. Anyway, I was wondering if I could borrow your car. Mine's sort of out of commission.
hannah green		Sure. The keys are on the dresser next to. ..to your book.
hannah green		I uh, I didn't finish, I ...fell asleep.
grady		That good, hub?
hannah green		No, it's not that, it's...
hannah green		It's just that, you know, I was thinking about how, in class, you're always telling us '-that writers make choices--at least the good ones. And, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying the book isn't really great-I mean, really great- but at times it's, well, very detailed, you know, with the genealogies of everyone's horses and ail the dental records and so on-and I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, but it sort of reads, in places, like, well, actually, like...  ...you didn't make any choices at all. And I was wondering if it might not be different if, maybe, when you wrote, you weren't always ...under the influence.
grady		 Hh huh. Well, thanks for the thought, but, as shocking as this may sound, I'm not the first writer to sip a little weed. And furthermore, it might interest you to know that one book I wrote, as you say, 'under the influence, ' happened to win a little something called the PEN award which, by the way, I accepted 'under the influence. '
crabtree		Want some help with that?
grady		 Don't touch it.
crabtree		Let me get this straight. Jerry Nathan owes you money. So, as collateral, he gives you his car.
grady		Only now I'm starting to think the car wasn't exactly Jerry's to give.
crabtree		So whose car is it?
grady		My guess-Vernon Hardapple.
crabtree		The hood jumper?
grady		He said a few things that lead me to believe the car's his.
crabtree		Such as.
grady		'That's my car, motherfucker.'
crabtree		Hh hub. So. We find Vernon, we find the car. We find the car...
grady		...we find the jacket.
crabtree		There's only one problem, Tripp. We don't know his real name. We just made it up. In fact, we made the whole guy up.
grady		No wonder he screwed us over.
crabtree		Christ, Tripp. How did you know?
grady		Call it a hunch.
crabtree		I'd call it genius.
grady		It's good to know I'm still talented at something. Keep the motor running.
crabtree		What the hell...
grady		Oola.
grady		I never forget an Oola.
grady		Vernon.
vernon		 Move away, cupcake.  He's got a gun.
grady		Who's got a gun?
grady		Relax, Vernon...
vernon		Why's he sitting in my car? He's crazy, that's why. He probably calls everybody Vernon.
grady		Not true. You're the only Vernon I know. Actually, I'm wrong. I once knew a Vernon Peabody at Penguin U.K.
vernon		I'm going to shoot him. If he doesn't put that gun down.
grady		It's just a souvenir. They don't even make the caps anymore.
vernon		Bullshit. I know a gun when I see one. And that's a gun.
grady		No, really....
crabtree		Holy shit.
crabtree		Tripp! Run!
vernon		Who the hell is that?
grady		A Manhattan book editor murdering a Mormon girl's clutch.
grady		No! Don't shoot! He's just a lousy driver.
grady		Oh... my... God!
crabtree		Naturally you have copies.
grady		I have an alternate version of the first chapter.
crabtree		You'll be all right then.  Look at Carlyle, when he lost his luggage.
grady		That was MacCaulay.
crabtree		Or Hemingway, when Hadley lost all those stories.
grady		He was never able to reproduce them.
crabtree		Bad examples. Look, Tripp, I don't want to depreciate the loss here, but perhaps--in a sense- this--  is for the best.
grady		Kind of a sign, you're saying.
crabtree		In a sense.
grady		I don't think so. In my experience, signs are usually a lot more subtle.
vernon		Let me get this straight. All that paper that went into the river. That was the only copy?
grady		'Fraid so.
vernon		 And you're saying it's some kind of sign? What the fuck's the matter with you?
crabtree		I'm just saying that sometimes, subconsciously, a person will put themselves in a situation-perhaps even create that situation- in order to have an arena in which to work out an unresolved issue. It's a covert way, if you will, of addressing a problem.
vernon		I'll tell you the problem. You behind the wheel. There's your fucking problem.
crabtree		That's pretty simplistic, don't you think?
vernon		Hey, pal, you don't start doing crazy eights in the middle of the street none of this happens.
crabtree		Excuse me. Did you, or did you not, have a gun to his head?
vernon		He was trying to steal my car!
grady		Ail right, all right It's done. There's no need to talk about it. It's done.
grady		I don't know...
crabtree		What he means is, it's difficult to distill the essence of a book sometimes. It-lives in the mind.
vernon		Yeah, but you gotta know what it's about, right? I mean, if you didn't know what it was about, why were you writing it?
grady		I couldn't stop.
grady		Hey, Vernon. Can I ask you a question?
grady		Boy or girl?
vernon		As long as it looks like her, I don't care. You know what I'm saying?
grady		Right. Well, thanks. For the lift.
vernon		No sweat. Only do me a favor?
grady		Sure.
crabtree		The jacket, Tripp. We need the jacket.
grady		It used to belong to Marilyn Monroe. She had small shoulders, like you. Most people don't know that.
vernon		Man, that book of yours must've been one nutty motherfucking ride.
crabtree		You mind explaining what you just did?
grady		Came to my senses. CRABTREE
grady		Walter Gaskell isn't going to send James Leer to jail, Crabs. I know that.
crabtree		Do you know he won't expel him?
grady		No. But I don't think that matters.
crabtree		That's very enlightened, Professor. It's comforting to know that America's children have you for a teacher.
grady		Nobody teaches a writer anything. You tell them what you know. You tell them to find their voice and stick with it, because that's all you have in the end. You tell the ones who have it to keep at it and you tell the ones who don't to keep at it, too. Because that's the only way to get where you're going.  Maybe that's the only thing--that and Sara-- that's made the last seven years worthwhile.
crabtree		Me? What can I do?
grady		Gee, I don't know, Crabs...  Improvise. You're good at that.
crabtree		I'm sorry, Tripp.
grady		You peeked, didn't you?
crabtree		I peeked.
crabtree		It really had the makings, Tripp. There was a lot to admire. I've ...never read anything quite like it.
grady		You're not just trying to make me feel better?
crabtree		Scout's honor.
grady		Well, thanks for that, Crabs.
grady		Sara!
grady		 Thanks, Q. I felt the same way about the bank teller's breasts in your last one.
carrie mcwhirty		If you're looking for Hannah, she's on the aisle.
grady		No...
carrie mcwhirty		Who's that guy she's with? Didn't he used to be in workshop?
grady		Jeff. He comes from a long line of tango dancers.
walter		And now, as those of you who've been with us in previous years know, we have a tradition of sorts here at WordFest. I'm speaking, of course, of The Plums.
walter		This weekend, Susan Lowery, of North Braddock, found a publisher for her children's book. The Loneliest Prawn, Susan, stand up.
walter		And Robert Wilkenson--who many of you know for his City Beat column in the Post-Gazette--has found a home with Putnam for his new Three Rivers thriller. Blood Patterns. Robert.
walter		Now, this next one, I think, is especially exciting to announce, because it concerns a student here at the university. Our own James Leer, a sophomore in English literature, has found a publisher for his first novel, which I believe is called The Lovely Parade.
carrie mcwhirty		The guy's kind of an alien probe, if you know what I mean.
grady		Take a bow, James!
walter		And finally--and perhaps not least importantly--Terry Crabtree, of Bartizan, has also decided to publish my own book--a critical exploration of the union of Marilyn Monroe and Joe DiMaggio and its function in American mythopoetics-which, tentatively, I've entitled The Last American Marriage.     "
grady		Sara!
grady		Yo, Traxler.
grady		Do you get high, Sam?
traxler		Only when I'm working.
grady		As a heart attack.
traxler		Thanks-Whoa, Professor Tripp, careful ^here...
sara		Grady, what are you doing, you idiot?
grady		Looking for you.
grady		I passed out.
greenhut		You did.
grady		I've been doing that a lot lately.
greenhut		So I hear. You've also been smoking a lot of marijuana, I understand.
grady		Do you think that's why I've been having these...  ... spells?
greenhut		How long have you been having them?
grady		The last month maybe.
greenhut		How long have you been smoking marijuana?
grady		Spiro T. Agnew was vice president, I believe.
greenhut		That's probably not the problem, then. What about your lifestyle. Any major changes recently?
grady		I've been trying to finish a book...
greenhut		And your wife left you.
grady		Is that in my chart?
greenhut		I spoke with the woman who saved your life. You're lucky she came along when she did.
grady		I know.
greenhut		 You need to see a doctor, Mr. Tripp. An internist. And I think you really ought to consider seeing a therapist, as well.
grady		She told you about. . .
greenhut		Her dog, yes.
grady		Actually, it was her husband's dog...
greenhut		Look, Mr. Tripp. You have a drug problem, all right? On top of that, you have a bite on your ankle that is severely infected. We pumped you with antibiotics so you'll be fine, but another day or two and you might have lost the foot. As for your spells. I'm guessing they're a result of the anxiety you've been experiencing lately.
grady		They're anxiety attacks? That's a little disappointing.
greenhut		Better luck next time.
grady		So is my friend...is Sara still here?
greenhut		No. There's no one here.
grady		I have to see her. As soon as possible.
greenhut		Look, Mr. Tripp. If you really want to leave, I can't stop you. But I'm going to write you a prescription for a course of ampicillin and I want you to follow it to the end-no matter how stupid you decide to be with everything else. All right?
grady		I wonder if you could show me something.
grady		Are these the only ones you have?
grady		 Is that a suggestion?
grady		I'm so glad to see you, Sara.
sara		I believe you. Did that nice doctor let you out? Or-is this you improvising again, Grady?
grady		I'm through improvising.
sara		Terry told me about Wonder Boys. Is  it true? Did you lose it all?
grady		I lost it ail.
sara		Oh, Grady. You're such a putz.
grady		I know.
grady		Ouch. How many?
grady		I went and looked at-some babies just now.
sara		Oh?
grady		 I guess you have to go on faith.
sara		 Some times...
grady		Did you tell Walter?
sara		I told Walter.
grady		Does he still love you?
sara		It didn't come up.
grady		Well I do. I've always loved you, Sara. I didn't know it at the time, but I'd always been waiting for you. My whole life. Because you're who I need. Because nothing makes sense without you. Because the best moment of every day is the moment I first see your face. And because when you leave a room, there's no reason to be in it any more. It's just a room again.
grady		 In the hospital. I "was kind of excited about it at-the time, but then I was on pretty heavy painkillers.
grady		You don't deserve me, you know.
sara		I know, but sometimes...
****Dialogues from script :Wonder_Woman.txt****

antiope		Yes, the blow was strong, but Eliana's footwork betrayed her! A battle is like a river-crossing, every step must find a safe spot --
mnemosyne		Diana, I see you!
mnemosyne		Diana, come back!
hippolyta		 How many times, Diana?
hippolyta		 Let's get you back to school before another tutor quits.
hippolyta		Training?   You are training.
hippolyta		Your mind is your most powerful weapon.  5. 7   CONTINUED:                                                    7
hippolyta		 Does she?
antiope		I could begin showing her some things.  She should at least be able to defend herself.
hippolyta		From whom?
antiope		In the event of an invasion.
hippolyta		Isn't that why I have an army at my command, General?
antiope		I pray a day will never come where she has to fight, but you, the wisest of us all, know that one cannot deny their inner nature. A scorpion must sting, a wolf must hunt --
hippolyta		She's a child. The only child on the island. Please, let her be so.
antiope		But, sister --
hippolyta		 There will be no training.
hippolyta		It's time to sleep.
hippolyta		Fighting doesn't make you a hero.
hippolyta		Diana... You are the most precious thing in this world to me. So much so, I sculpted you from clay and begged Zeus to give you life.
hippolyta		Then I will tell you a new one. One of our people, and my days of battle...
hippolyta		So you will finally understand... why war is nothing to hope for.
hippolyta		Long ago, when time was new, and all of history was still a dream... the gods ruled the Earth, Zeus king among them.
hippolyta		We give thanks to the gods for this paradise.
hippolyta		The Godkiller?
hippolyta		This is where we keep all the gifts the gods have given us.
hippolyta		I pray there will never come a time when it is called to arms. But only the fiercest among us even could... And that is not you, Diana. She takes Diana's hand away from the sword.
hippolyta		So you see, my daughter, you are safe. And it is nothing for you to concern yourself with.
antiope		You're doubting yourself.  12. 20   CONTINUED:                                                    20
antiope		Yes, you are.  But you're stronger than you believe...
hippolyta		Training.  It seems I am not the revered queen I should be. Disobeyed, betrayed, by my own sister --
hippolyta		 Take her to the palace.
antiope		You left me no choice, Hippolyta. You neglect your duty if she cannot fight.
hippolyta		You speak of a time that may never come. He may never return! He could have died of his wounds.
antiope		You think I don't wish that were true?!  You feel it in your bones, just as I do. Ares is still alive... He is out there... and it's only a matter of time before he returns.
hippolyta		The stronger Diana gets --
antiope		Nobody wants this less than I. I love her as you do.  But this is the only way to truly protect her.
hippolyta		She is to never know the truth about what she is and how she came to be.  You will train her harder than every Amazon before her.
antiope		Hippolyta --
hippolyta		Five times harder -- ten times harder.  You will train her until she is unconquerable.
antiope		Come on, Diana. You're stronger than this.
hippolyta		 Get up, Diana.
antiope		NEVER let your guard down! Your opponents will have no honor. They will strike at you from behind! They will attack without provocation!
antiope		Show me the Amazon you are!  Or was I wrong to put such faith in you?
hippolyta		What have you done?
diana		I'm sorry --
antiope		Stay back.
german lieutenant		Where did this fog come from?
german commander		Find the plane.
diana		You are a... man?
steve		Yes, I mean --  Yeah. Do I not look like a... where am I?
diana		You are on Themyscira.
steve		Thema-- say it again?
diana		Who are you?
steve		I'm one of the good guys, and those are the bad guys.
steve		Y'know... Germans.
diana		Germans?
steve		We gotta get out of here.
hippolyta		 Step away from her! NOW!
steve		Where are their guns?
steve		Do they only have arrows? We need guns. Because the Germans have guns. Lots and lots of --
steve		Get down!
steve		 Stay here!
antiope		 Omicron formation!
antiope		 SHIELD!
steve		Diana!
diana		Antiope!
diana		No!   Please no!
antiope		Diana. The time has come... you... you must...
diana		 Go where? Antiope! No!
hippolyta		Sister!
hippolyta		You!
diana		Mother, no! He fought at my side against the invaders.
menalippe		Typical. The man fights against his own people.
steve		They weren't my people.
menalippe		Then why do you wear their colors?
artemis		Tell us!
steve		I -- I'm not at liberty to say.
menalippe		What is your name?
steve		I can't tell you that, either.
venelia		We should kill him right now and be done with it.
philippus		He dies now and we know nothing about why they came here and who they are.
steve		Ladies, I'm sorry. I can only tell you one thing about me: I'll never talk.
steve		My name's Captain Steve Trevor. Pilot... American Expeditionary Forces. Serial number 8121941. That's all I'm at liberty to s--
steve		Seconded... to British Intelligence.  What the hell is this thing, anyway?
diana		The Lasso of Hestia compels you to reveal the truth.
menalippe		It is pointless -- and painful -- to resist.
hippolyta		What is your mission?
steve		Whoever you are, you're in enough danger as it is. You shouldn't --
hippolyta		What is your mission?
steve		 I'm a spy.
steve's pov		 FOLLOWING GENERAL LUDENDORFF as he and his troops enter a large, nondescript WAREHOUSE.  STEVE  I posed as one of their pilots, then flew in with them.
steve		Dammit.
steve		I was on my way back to London when the Germans shot me down...
steve		But if I can get those notes to British Intelligence in time, it might make a difference...  ... stop millions more from dying... Stop the war...
diana		War?   What war?
steve		... The War to End All Wars.   Four years, twenty-seven nations, twenty-five million dead -- soldiers... and civilians...
steve		 ... like the world is going to end.
hippolyta		 Take him to the infirmary.
phillipus		Should we let him go?
hippolyta		And risk him bringing more men to our shores. Phillipus...
diana		 Mother -- ?
phillipus		We can't hold him forever, my Queen.
diana		Excuse me, Mother. But after everything the man said... this must be Ares.
senator acantha		What are you talking about, child?
diana		Forgive me, Senator Acantha, but... the man called it a war without end. Millions of people already dead. Like nothing he's ever seen. Only Ares could do such a thing. We cannot simply let him go.  We must go with him. HIPPOLYTA We are not deploying our army and leaving Themyscira defenseless to go and fight their war!
diana		It is not their war.  Zeus created man to be just and wise, strong and passionate.
hippolyta		That was a story, Diana. There is much you do not know. Mankind is easily corruptible.
diana		But Ares is behind that corruption. It is Ares who has these Germans fighting. And stopping the God of War is our foreordinance --
hippolyta		We must care to our wounded, honor our fallen!
diana		Themyscira has seen death for the first time, Mother. Ares must not be allowed to threaten us again. We know only too well what happens if he finds us -- and he will. Never again shall we be enslaved. And now mankind must be freed. As Amazons this is our duty!
hippolyta		You are not an Amazon like the rest of us, Diana.
hippolyta		You don't know war like we do.
diana		 Your Queen forbids it.
epione		Is it true you saved his life?
diana		Who told you that?
epione		He did.  What will the Queen do with him? Will she kill him?
steve		Didn't hear you come in./Didn't hear you knock.
diana		Would you say you're a typical example of your sex?
steve		I like to think of myself as... above average.
diana		What is that?
steve		It's a watch.
diana		A watch.  31. 38   CONTINUED:                                                    38
steve		My father gave it to me. Been through hell and back with him, and now me, and it's still ticking.
diana		 Why?
steve		Because it tells time.  So, I know when to wake up, work, eat, sleep.
diana		 You let this little thing tell you what to do?
steve		Do you mind if I ask you a couple hundred questions?
steve		What is this place?
diana		Themyscira.
steve		I caught that before. I mean what is this place? How come I've never heard of it? Who the hell are you people? How do you know English?
diana		We speak hundreds of languages. We are the bridge to a greater understanding between all men.
steve		Funny, because I understand even less now than before you walked in.
steve		Hey, I didn't get to say it earlier... but thanks for dragging me out of the water.
diana		Thank you for what you did on the beach.
steve		So... Are you here to let me go?
diana		I'm sorry... It's not up to me. I tried. I even asked them to send me with you --
diana		-- or anyone.    An Amazon.   The Amazons.
steve		The Amazons?
diana		It is our sacred duty to defend the world... and I wish to go. But my mother will not allow it.
steve		Can't say I blame her.  The way this war is going, I wouldn't let anyone I care about near it.
diana		Then why do you want to go back?
steve		I don't think want is the word, but... I've gotta try.  `You see something wrong in the world, you can either do nothing, or you can do something. And you already tried nothing.'
steve		Nice outfit.
diana		 Thank you. Now I will show you the way off the island. And you will take me to Ares.
steve		 Deal.
steve		 I'm leaving in that?
diana		We are.
steve		We're leaving in that?
diana		Do you not know how to sail?
steve		 Just haven't since I was a kid -- She nods, motions to the boat with encouragement.
diana		Then there's nothing to be afraid of.
diana		What?
diana		 I can't stand by while innocent lives are lost. If no one else will defend the world from Ares, I must. I have to go --
hippolyta		I know.
hippolyta		Or at least I know that I cannot stop you. There is so much... so much you do not understand.
diana		I understand enough. That I'm willing to fight for those who cannot fight for themselves. Like you once did...
hippolyta		You know that if you choose to leave us, you may never return. Once you leave this island, its location will fade from your memory...
hippolyta		This belonged to the greatest warrior in our history -- make sure you are worthy of it.
diana		I will.
hippolyta		Be careful in the world of men, Diana, they do not deserve you.
hippolyta		You have been my greatest love. Today you are my greatest sorrow.
menalippe		Should you have told her?
hippolyta		The more she knows, the faster he will find her.
diana		How long until we reach the war?
steve		The war? Well, which part? The Eastern Front in France is 400 miles long -- from the Alps to the Atlantic. Then there's the Dolomites in Italy, Turks in Arabia -- there used to be a Russian Front but they quit last year so they could kill the Tzar and have a revolution.
diana		Where the fighting is the most intense then. If you take me there, I am sure I will find who I'm looking for.
steve		Who's that?
diana		Ares.
steve		Ares?   As in the God of War?
diana		The God of War is our responsibility. Only an Amazon can defeat him. With this.
diana		And once I do, the war will end.
steve		Look, Princess, I like your spirit, and maybe you know something I don't, but this war is so sprawling, there's nothing the two of us can do about it. But we can try to get to the men who can.
diana		You're looking at the person who can. And after I find and destroy Ares, the German armies will be freed from his influence -- and they will be good men again.
steve		 How much do you really know about the rest of the world?
diana		The world of men? I know all there is to know about them -- from the great books.
steve		The great books. Those books explain why there are no men on that island? Or kids?
diana		I was raised on the island.
steve		Just you?  Sheltered upbringing.
diana		My mother sculpted me from clay. I was brought to life by Zeus.
steve		Oh. Well, that's not how babies are made where I come from.
diana		You refer to reproductive biology.
steve		I refer to more than that. DIANA Ah.    The pleasures of the flesh.
steve		 You know about that?
diana		Of course. I've read all twelve volumes of Clio's Treatises on Bodily Pleasure. STEVE All twelve, huh?  You bring any of them with you?
diana		You would not enjoy them. They came to the conclusion that men are essential for procreation, but when it comes to pleasure... unnecessary.
ludendorff		How long until we are operational?
captain		Two days, sir.
ludendorff		You have until tonight, Captain.
captain		Sir, the men have had no food.   No sleep.
ludendorff		Do you think I've had food or rest, Captain? Do you hear me making excuses? Your men are weak. Complacent. You've spoiled them. You've let them forget that an attack can come at any time -- from any quarter -- so let's you and I remind them, shall we?
ludendorff		Doctor.   Are you making progress?
maru		Not enough... It is over, General. Germany is giving up. 
ludendorff		Once the Kaiser sees your newest weapon, he will never sign the armistice.
maru		But without my book...
ludendorff		We will get your book. But I believe in you, not it. I KNOW that you CAN and you WILL succeed.  It is what you were put on this Earth to do.
maru		A different type of gas.  To restore your strength. General Ludendorff takes the capsule, examines it.
maru		And make you into the god you are.
maru		General... I have it. And if it is what I think... it's going to be... terrible.
ludendorff		And our war will swallow this world... Forever.
steve		Welcome to jolly ol' London.
diana		It's hideous.
steve		Eh.    It's not for everyone.
diana		Why are they holding hands?
steve		Well, because they're... together.
steve		No, we're not together... I mean, like that. Look, we need to go this way.
diana		Because this is the way to the war?
steve		 Technically, that's the way to war.
diana		Then where are we going?
steve		 I have to get this notebook to my superiors.
diana		I let you go, you take me to Ares. We made a deal, Steve Trevor. A deal is a promise. A promise is unbreakable. STEVE  Come with me to deliver this, then we'll talk about getting you a train ticket.
steve		I need to change.                                                 50
diana		What are you doing?
steve		 We need to get you some clothes.
diana		Why?
steve		Because you aren't wearing any.
diana		What do these women wear into battle?
steve		 Well, women don't exactly --
diana		A baby.
steve		And that one wasn't made out of clay.
etta		Well, thank God for that! I thought you were dead this time, I really did, then I got your call --  He was gone for weeks! Not a word. Very unlike him.
etta		Hello. I'm Etta Candy.     Captain Trevor's secretary.
diana		What is a secretary?
etta		Well, it means I do everything. I go wherever he goes. Do whatever he tells me to do.
diana		 Where I'm from, that's called slavery.
etta		 It does rather feel like that sometimes. But the pay's good and he's almost never here.
etta		We've got our work cut out for us.
diana		Is this what passes for armor in your country?
etta		Of a sort. It's fashion.     Keeps our tummies in.
diana		Why must you keep them in?
etta		Only a woman with no tummy would ask that question.
etta		Conservative, but not entirely... un-fun.
steve		At least try it on.
etta		Oh, my! Aren't you terribly cold out here where everyone can see... everything? Let's get you into a nice, warm, private dressing room, shall we?
diana		How can a woman possibly fight in this?
etta		We fight with our principles. It's how we got the vote.
etta		Not that I'm opposed to engaging in a bit of fisticuffs when the situation calls for it, mind you!
etta		There we are.    Very nice.
diana		So itchy.   And it's choking me.
etta		 I can't say that I blame it.
steve		Where is she?
etta		Trying on outfit number two hundred and twenty-six.
diana		Why is everyone staring? Is it because I can barely breathe in this?
steve		 Etta, the whole point was to make her less conspicuous.
etta		Really, Steve? All it takes is a pair of specs, and suddenly she's not the most beautiful woman you've ever seen?
diana		Thank you.
etta		Right then, I'll take the rest of this. Good luck, I'll take these back to the office and meet you both later.
etta		It really doesn't go with the outfit.
steve		It'll be safe. You can trust her.  I don't think we're going to run into Ares at the meeting.
diana		 Please. Protect it with your life.
etta		 ... Who wouldn't?
steve		Come on.
diana		What is it?
steve		Hopefully nothing.
steve		Quite a reception.
steve		Where did I put that thing?
steve		 Stay behind me!
steve		Or not.
steve		How'd you do that?
etta		Where do you think you're going?
diana		I am sorry. You are clearly under his control. Let me help you get free. Tell me where he is... Where will I find Ares?
diana		He's dead.
steve		Stay here.
sir patrick		Gentlemen! Germany is a proud nation who will never surrender. The only way to end this war and restore world peace is to negotiate an armistice.
steve		 Colonel!
steve		 Phillip! Phil!
sir patrick		 Our only aim at this moment -- must be to achieve peace at any cost.
sir patrick		Gentlemen, I beg you, please, if you'll just hear me out --
diana		Why will they not let him speak? He's talking peace.
steve		That's why they won't let him speak.
diana		But if they want to stop the war, isn't that foolish?  Are they fools?
steve		 Most of `em.
colonel darnell		Trevor?! What the hell were you thinking bringing a woman into the council chamber?
steve		 I'm sorry, sir, but the intel I've brought back is very time sensitive. We were attacked by men looking for it on the way here. One of Maru's notebooks.
steve		We need to get it to Cryptography. And I need an immediate audience with the Generals --
colonel darnell		You don't just rush in here, like this, and demand an audience with the cabinet. Cryptography takes time and --
sir patrick		I'd heard you were lost on one of your missions, yet here you are. And you've brought a friend.
colonel darnell		Our deepest apologies for the interruption, sir --
sir patrick		Nonsense.  Sir Patrick Morgan, at your service.
diana		Diana, Princess of --
steve		 Prince, Diana Prince. We... she and I... we work together. She helped me get this notebook here. From Maru's lab --
sir patrick		`Dr. Poison' herself? My God...  I suggest we assemble the war cabinet so they can tell us more.
ludendorff		Congratulations, Doctor.
colonel darnell		Cryptographers had no luck. It seems like a mixture of two languages.
diana		Ottoman and Sumerian.
diana		 Surely someone else in this room knew that.
general haig		 Who is this woman?
steve		She's my... secretary.
general haig		 And she speaks Ottoman and Sumerian?
steve		She's a very good secretary.
general haig		See her out.
colonel darnell		 If this woman can read it, sir... we should hear what she has to say.
diana		 It's a formula... for a new kind of mustard...
diana		Mustard gas. Hydrogen-based, instead of sulfur.
darnell		Gas masks would be useless against hydrogen.
diana		The book says they plan to release this gas at... the front...  Front of what?
steve		 General, you have to find out where they're making this gas. Burn it to the ground. Destroy it.
colonel darnell		Ludendorff was last seen in Belgium --
general haig		 We can't be seen sending troops into German-occupied Belgium when we're negotiating their surrender.
steve		Sir, I saw   this gas with my own eyes. All    the men on the front line could   die on both sides unless you   --
general haig		That's what soldiers do, Captain. Diana's shocked by the callousness.   Sir Patrick looks at her apologetically.
general haig		What? Would you have us abandon the front altogether?
steve		Pull the troops out. Send me in. With some strategic support, I could take Ludendorff and his operation out myself.
general haig		Are you insane, Trevor? I can't introduce rogue elements this late into the game. STEVE But, General --
sir patrick		Now more than ever, the armistice is of paramount importance, we must get it negotiated and signed. That is the surest way of stopping the war.
general haig		You will do nothing, Captain Trevor. That's an order.
steve		Yes, sir.    I understand, sir.
diana		I don't.
steve		 Diana. I know it's confusing --
diana		It's not confusing.      It's unthinkable.
general haig		I'm sorry, who did you say this woman was? STEVE She's with me.     With us.
diana		 I am not with you. You would knowingly sacrifice all those lives? Do they mean less than yours? Where I come from Generals don't hide in their offices like cowards. They fight alongside their soldiers. They die with them on the battlefield.
steve		Diana. Enough.  My apologies, sir.
diana		You should be ashamed!  All of you.
steve		Diana, wait!  59. 62   CONTINUED:                                                    62
diana		That's your leader? How could he say that? Believe that?  And YOU! Was your duty to simply give them a book? You didn't stand your ground! You didn't fight!
steve		Because there was no chance of changing his mind! Listen to me --
diana		This is Ares and he isn't going to allow a negotiation or a surrender. The millions of people you talked about? They will die. My people? They're next!
steve		 WE'RE GOING ANYWAY!
diana		What?   You mean you were lying?
steve		Diana, I'm a spy. That's what we do. Now are you coming or not? DIANA How do I know you're not lying to me right now?
steve		 And we're probably going to die.
diana		You have no faith in yourself.                                                   62
steve		 Come on. If we're going to get to the front on our own... we're gonna need reinforcements.
diana		These are the reinforcements?     Are these even good men?
steve		Relatively good.
diana		Relative to what?
sameer		... In Africa, gentlemen, we had no such luxuries...
sameer		But the luxuries we have now. It's like we can't stop making money. My uncle, the Prince, and I would keep it all, but we want to extend the opportunity to a few good soldiers --
steve		Which Prince was that?  61. 64   CONTINUED:                                                   64
sameer		 My goodness gracious, that's a work of art.
steve		Sameer.   This is Diana.
sameer		Diana, call me `Sammy.'    Please.
diana		Sammy.    Please.
steve		Sameer's a top undercover man. Can talk the skin off a cat in as many languages as you.
diana		[He doesn't look that impressive to me?]
sameer		[You do to me. Your eyes, as soft as your smile...]
diana		[And your eyes look like they want something.]
sameer		[I know Chinese, too, tricky girl.]
diana		[But can you recite Socrates in Ancient Greek?]
steve		Where's Charlie?
diana		At least this Charlie is good with his fists.
steve		That's not Charlie.
steve		That's Charlie. The two GRUNT at one another in Scottish slang, but the Bruiser sees Charlie's got friends -- and quickly leaves. The surprisingly cheerful CHARLIE  gets to his feet.
charlie		Steven. May God put a flower on your head.
diana		What were you fighting about?
charlie		I mistook his drink for mine.
diana		This man is no fighter.
steve		Charlie here's an expert marksman.  He shoots people.
sameer		From very far away.
charlie		 They never know what hit `em.
diana		How do you know who you kill if you can't see their face?
charlie		I don't.   Better that way.
diana		My aunt warned me about men like you.
charlie		Ain't the first time I heard that, lassie.
diana		You fight without honor.
charlie		Don't get paid for honor.
sameer		What's the job, Trevor?
steve		Two days tops. We need supplies and passage to Belgium --
charlie		What's the going rate?
sameer		Better be good pay.  [And perhaps a picture of your lovely face. Something to keep me alive.]
diana		[You won't need a picture.   I'm coming with you.]
sameer		What is this?
steve		We're dropping her off at the front.
sameer		Dropping her off?
charlie		 No offense, cherie, but I don't wanna get killed helping a girl out of a ditch, ya know what I mean?
bruiser		You got your friends.  These are mine.
sameer		I am both frightened and aroused.
charlie		 When aren't you?
etta		Hello, all! Sorry, I'm late.   I got waylaid by --
diana		Sir Patrick!
etta		That's what I was going to mention.
sir patrick		Sit, gentlemen. Please, sit.
sir patrick		I assume you're here planning something that's either going to get you court-martialed or killed.
steve		I assume you're here to stop us.
sir patrick		No.  Not that I like any of this.  As one of your American authors, Thomas Paine, so eloquently put it, `I prefer peace. But if trouble must come let it come in my time, so that my children can live in peace.'
sir patrick		Now nothing can jeopardize the armistice talks, but... I also believe in insurance. I'm here to help you. Unofficially, of course. What's your plan?
steve		If there is another weapons facility, find it and destroy it. Along with Ludendorff and Maru.
sir patrick		Etta will run the mission out of my office, to allay suspicion.
etta		 Run the mission, sir?
sir patrick		 It's enough for a few days.
steve		Thank you, sir.
diana		The gas, Ludendorff, Maru... You realize they are all symptoms. Ares is the disease. And once I find him, none of this will matter.
steve		I'll take you to the front, but I can't make any promises about finding `your friend' any more than I can Santa Claus.
diana		You won't need to. I'll know him when I see him.
steve		Train leaves in a few minutes.
steve		Hungry?
diana		It's cold.
steve		It's ice cream.
diana		It's wonderful.  You should be very proud.
steve		Forget the countries or the territory or the Generals.                                                 66
steve		We've got to get a move on.   Chief won't wait.
diana		Chief?
steve		Smuggler.   Very reputable.
diana		A liar, a murderer, and now a smuggler?
steve		Careful, I might get offended.
diana		I wasn't referring to you.
steve		I went undercover and pretended to be something else, I shot people on your beach, and I smuggled a notebook. Liar, murderer, smuggler.  You still coming?
diana		The gas will kill everyone... everything.
diana		What kind of weapon kills innocents?
steve		In this war?   Every kind.
steve		Chief!
sameer		It's good to see you.
charlie		Aye.
the chief		Who is this?
the chief		Niitangio, Napi.
diana		I am Diana.
the chief		Where did you find her?
steve		She found me.
diana		I plucked him from the sea --
steve		 It's a long story.
steve		British tea for the Germans. German beer for the British.  Edgar Rice Burroughs novels for both sides.
charlie		And guns.
the chief		 It's not even very good beer.
steve		Ludendorff was last seen at the front --  -- near the Somme. Front's about three miles away. Chief will get us there.
the chief		Then it's another day to safely cross it.
steve		As soon as we have daylight, we move. I'll take first watch.
charlie		No need. I'll take it.     I never sleep on the job!
diana		Strange thunder.
the chief		German seventy-sevens.  That's the front out there. The evening hate.
diana		So... who do you fight for in this war?
the chief		I don't fight.
diana		You're here for profit then? THE CHIEF Nowhere better to be.
diana		Nowhere better to be than a war you don't take a side in?
the chief		I have nowhere else and no side left. The last war took everything from my people. We have nothing left. At least here, I'm free.
diana		Who took that from your people? Chief cocks his head to the side.      How could she not know?
the chief		 His people.
diana		You're safe.  What did you see?
charlie		I'm fine, `right?  Bloody broad.
the chief		He sees ghosts.
steve		You're going to get cold.     Here.
diana		No, I'm --
von hindenburg		You were absent at the council meeting, General.
ludendorff		 You've begun negotiating the terms of the armistice.
von hindenburg		On the Kaiser's behalf.
ludendorff		 If only you had faith in me.
von hindenburg		We don't. There are shortages of food, medicine, ammunition. Every hour we delay costs thousands of German lives.
ludendorff		One attack and the war is ours. As we speak, my chemist and her team are --
von hindenburg		We stand against you and your witch, Ludendorff! Enough!  Twenty-four hours from now this war will end. It is over.
ludendorff		For all of you.
maru		The mask won't help.
ludendorff		Yes, but they don't know that.  75. 73    CONTINUED:                                                   73
ludendorff		It's time to stage our demonstration for the Kaiser.
diana		Those animals.     Why are they hurting them?
charlie		Because they need to move.    Like us.
diana		But I can help them!
charlie		There's no time! C'mon, woman.
wounded soldier		Oh, God.   God, help me! Please.
diana		That man... He's injured.
sameer		There is nothing we can do about it, Diana. We must keep moving.
diana		Where are we?
steve		You wanted me to take you to the war. This is it. The front lines.
diana		But where are Ares' men -- the Germans?
charlie		Couple hundred yards that way.       In a trench like this one.
sentry		Chief!  Oi! Chief's back!
marie		[The Germans took everything -- homes, food... the ones who couldn't escape... they took as slaves.]
diana		[Where did this happen?]
diana		 We need to help these people.
steve		We need to stay on mission.
the chief		 And there's no safe crossing for at least a day ahead.
charlie		Then what are we waitin' for?
diana		But these people are dying, they've nothing to eat. And in the village... Enslaved, she said. Women. Children.
steve		There's nothing we can do about that.
diana		How can you say that?   What is the matter with you?
steve		This is no man's land, Diana. It means no man can cross it. This is the worst point on the entire front. This battalion has been here for nearly a year and they've barely gained an inch because on the other side are Germany's deadliest soldiers. Pointing machine guns at every square inch of this place. This is not something you can cross. It's not possible.
diana		So we do nothing?
steve		We are doing something. We can't save every person in this war. Besides, it's not what we came here to do.
diana		No, but it's what I'm going to do.
steve		DIANA, NO!!!
charlie		How the hell'd she do that?
steve		She's drawing their fire!   Let's go!
diana		We're not finished yet.
diana		Stay here.   I'll go ahead.
steve		Go!
steve		Bell tower.
steve		Charlie!
sameer		You don't miss.
charlie		 Bloody scope... lens is cracked.
diana		Is there a way inside?!
steve		There is if you jump!
diana		It's too high.
his pov		 Diana leaping up AT him, gritting her teeth, angry --
diana		For all his talk of murdering people from afar, your shooter can't shoot.
sameer		Not everyone gets to be who they want to be all the time. Me, I wanted to be an actor, not a soldier. But I'm the wrong color.
diana		 He doesn't charge them?
sameer		Money isn't the only profit.  Everyone's fighting their own battles, Diana. Just as you are fighting yours.
steve		 Veld. Tiny village. It's probably not even on the --
etta		Found it.
steve		Have you found Ludendorff's operation?
etta		Not yet, but we've located him. And lucky you, he's only a few miles away -- at German High Command.
steve		German High Command?
etta		Intel reports Ludendorff is hosting a gala -- a last hurrah before the Germans sign the Armistice. The Kaiser himself will be there. As will Dr. Maru.
steve		Actually, that gala's perfect cover --
sir patrick		 Captain Trevor, you are under no circumstances to attend that gala tomorrow night. We cannot risk jeopardizing the Armistice.
diana		 You shouldn't be worried about upsetting the peace accord. Ares would never let that happen...
steve		What is it?
diana		Of course... It makes complete sense. Ares developed a weapon, the worst ever devised.
steve		Ares?    You mean Ludendorff.
diana		No. I mean Ares. Ludendorff is Ares.
sir patrick		Steve?
steve		Sir, this is our chance to find the gas and learn how Ludendorff plans on delivering it. Maybe our only chance. Our last chance --
sir patrick		I forbid it.   Do you hear me? Steve?
steve		I'm sorry, sir, you're breaking up.
sir patrick		Steve?   Are you there -- ?
steve		Drinks later, Sameer. I need you to rustle up me a German uniform.
sameer		Already done. Now you two need to relax. There's nothing we can do until tomorrow. You said it yourself, Steve.
diana		It's bitter.
steve		 It's an acquired taste.
steve		It has hints of different flavors, if you look for them.
steve		You did this.
diana		We did.
steve		You have dancing on `Paradise' Island?
diana		Dance on Themyscira is more --
steve		Interpretive?
diana		Precisely.  Perhaps you'd better show me.
steve		Excuse me?
diana		If I'm going to a gala, I'll need to know how to --
steve		You're not going to the gala.
diana		Of course, I am. Why wouldn't I?
steve		Because you don't know how to dance, for one thing.
diana		 I would argue that they don't know how to dance.
diana		You're awfully close.
steve		That's kinda the point.
diana		Ah.    I see.
steve		It's a snowfall.
diana		It's magical.
steve		You're right.
diana		Is this what people do when there are no wars to fight?
steve		This and other things.
diana		What things?
steve		I don't know.    They... make breakfast.
diana		What else?
steve		Read the newspaper. Go to work --  They... get married. Maybe have babies, grow old together.
diana		What is it like?
steve		No idea.
diana		Maybe... once I defeat Ares and war ends forever... there will be time to learn about... all kinds of things.
steve		 God, I hope you're right.
sameer		The villagers gave them to us.
the chief		A gracious gift.
sameer		They called us heroes.
diana		You are.
steve		 Guys, I'm fully aware that I said this job was two days --
the chief		You would get lost without us.
sameer		Yeah, we know Diana's capable of looking after herself, but I'm worried you wouldn't make it. STEVE There's no more money, boys.
sameer		We've been paid enough. The Chief nods, but Diana spots Charlie's hesitation.
diana		If you're coming, Charlie, perhaps you'll sing more for us.  I enjoyed it very much.
sameer		Ah!   Don't encourage him!
charlie		 That's the craziest story I ever heard!
sameer		Wait. There's a whole island of women like her? And not a single man among them?  How do we get there?
steve		You're not their type.
charlie		You're all going daft.
steve		It's true... every word.
sameer		And she thinks Ludendorff is Ares? The God of War? CHARLIE And only by killing him will the war end?
sameer		You saw what she did out there. The way she charged that machine gun nest. The way she took out that tower. Maybe it's true!
charlie		 You don't really believe all this rubbish, do ye?
steve		How the hell are we gonna get in?
the chief		The way in is through the gate.
charlie		 Thank you, Chief, for that ancient tribal wisdom, that's very helpful.
charlie		If you could get through the gate I only see one guard at the door to distract.
steve		It won't look at all suspicious when I come sauntering out of the woods on foot --
diana		I could get in.
steve		You're not going in.     It's too --
diana		Dangerous?
steve		I know how to do stealth -- been doing it my whole life. I'll follow them to wherever they're working on the gas or better yet find out where it is.  Plus, we can't make a scene.
diana		I can be stealthy.
steve		Diana, what you're wearing doesn't exactly qualify as `undercover.'
sameer		 I don't know, I'd say she was pretty under covered.
steve		 There's no way to get you in. Let me scout it and report back. Worse case, we follow Ludendorff when he leaves and you can use that magic lasso of yours to get him to tell us where it is.
diana		But as long as he's still alive --
steve		You can't go into German High Command and kill anyone! You have to trust me, Diana.
the chief		Field over there is full of them.
sameer		Can I drive it? Lemme drive it. I'll be your chauffeur!
steve		 Diana. Please, stay put.
charlie		We should scout the area. In case we need to beat a hasty retreat. What do you think, Diana?
charlie		Uh-oh.
sameer		 Steve...
sameer		... they have invitations.
sameer		Dhanyavaad, Sahib. The Colonel and I wish many blessings and all manner of other things to fall upon your head --
steve		And your head's empty! He wants my invitation, you idiot!
sameer		I must apologize a thousand thousand times, my masters, for my most horrid, wretched, and unworthy soul has lost the Colonel's invitation!
sameer		Blessings be upon us.
steve		Keep the car running, Sahib.   And no joy riding.
fausta		I am not spending the entire evening out here, you idiots. Move your cars! I said, move!
fausta		 What are you supposed to be?!    Ha! Out of my way.
fausta		What are you doing?  Guards -- ?!
diana		 That was... fun.
maru		They're starting to ask where Von Hindenburg and the others are.
ludendorff		Soon it won't matter.
maru		But, General --
ludendorff		We continue as planned. Now go. I have people to tend to beyond you.
steve		 Excuse me.
maru		I don't drink.  Have we met?
steve		No, but I've been watching you. Following your career, I mean. You're Dr. Isabel Maru. The most talented chemist in the German Army. I'm a fan.
steve		I hope I'm not crossing a line.    I hear you and General Ludendorff are very close.
maru		We work well together, yes.
steve		 I'm sure he provides a great deal of support for you and your work, but having someone like me behind you -- I could provide a lot more.
maru		And who are you?
steve		A man who would show you the appreciation a genius like yourself deserves.
steve		I love fire, don't you? It's like a living act of entropy. The ultimate weapon of destruction, reminding us that, in the end, everything returns to the ash it once came from. There's something reassuring about it.  I see all of that in your eyes.
steve		Perhaps you could show me what you're working on. I hear it's extraordinary.
maru		I appreciate your interest in my work, but I am loyal to General Ludendorff. Besides, I see now your attention is elsewhere.
ludendorff		Enjoying the party?
diana		 I confess, I'm not sure what we're celebrating.
ludendorff		A German victory, of course.
diana		Victory?   When I hear peace is so close?
ludendorff		`Peace is only an armistice in an endless war.'
diana		Thucydides.
ludendorff		 You know your Ancient Greeks. They understood that war is a god. One that requires human sacrifice. Her heart pounds.
ludendorff		And in exchange, war gives man purpose. A chance to rise above his petty, mortal little life and be better than he is.
diana		Only one of the many gods believed in that... and he was wrong.
ludendorff		You know nothing about the gods --
ludendorff		My apologies. You'll excuse me.  Enjoy the fireworks.
diana		What are you doing?
steve		You agreed to wait.
diana		You agree to do things all the time then don't do them. Let me go --
steve		You can't kill Ludendorff inside German High Command. The Armistice won't be signed. DIANA It won't matter --
steve		What if you're wrong, Diana?    What if there is no Ares?
diana		 You don't believe me.
steve		I can't let you do this.
diana		What I do isn't up to you.
steve		Diana!
steve		The gas.
diana		The village.
sameer		They're cheering.
sameer		Diana!
the chief		What did they fire?
steve		It was Ludendorff.
charlie		 I see him.
steve		Wherever he goes you follow him.
sameer		 How will you find us?!
the chief		I know how.
diana		No.   Oh, no, no, no.
diana		They're dead. They're all dead.  YOU DID THIS!
steve		Diana, I'm sorry --
diana		You stopped me from killing Ares when I had the chance. You murderer! You killed these people!
steve		 No, I --
diana		STAY AWAY FROM ME!
diana		Everything you've said to me is a lie.  But I see the truth now. It isn't just the Germans that Ares has corrupted. It's you, too. It's all of you.
diana		 I will find Ares and I will kill him.
steve		It's a signal from The Chief. They followed Ludendorff --
steve		Diana?!
ludendorff		Nice to see you again. This is a surprise.
ludendorff		But I have things to do.
diana		You know why I'm here. I am Diana of Themyscira, daughter of Hippolyta.
ludendorff		As magnificent a creature as you are, you are no match for me.
diana		We'll see about that.
diana		I, daughter of Hippolyta, came here to complete the mission of the Amazons by taking your life, and ridding mankind and my people of you -- forever!
steve		Diana?
diana		I killed him. I killed Ares but nothing stopped. You kill the God of War, you stop the war.
steve		Right... Then we've got to do something about it.
diana		No! Steve. All of this should have stopped. The fighting. It should have stopped. So why are they doing this?!
steve		Diana, I'm sorry... I know you thought -- I hoped it, too -- but I knew --
diana		You knew what?!
steve		That it might not be that simple.
diana		But Ares is dead. They don't have to do this anymore. So why would they?!                                              101
steve		Because maybe people aren't... just good, Diana. Ares or no Ares. Maybe it's... just them.
diana		No... It can't be... Everything I saw? They were killing each other. Killing people they can't even see... Killing children. Like it was nothing... It had to be him!! It can't be them!
steve		Diana, sometimes people are complicated --
diana		My mother was right. She said `the world of men don't deserve you.'  That's why she left. They don't deserve our help.
steve		It's not about whether they deserve it or not. It's about what you believe. You think I don't get it? All I've seen out there? I wish I could tell you that there was one `bad guy' to blame. Maybe we're all to blame. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't try to do better.  And if you believe this war should stop, Diana, if you want to stop it, then help me stop it. Now.
steve		If we don't, they're going to kill thousands more.  Don't give up on them.   Don't give up on me.
steve		Please. We gotta go...  I have to.
sameer		 Where's Diana?
steve		We're on our own.
diana		Steve?
diana		Who's there?  What are you doing?
diana		Sir Patrick?
sir patrick		You're right, Diana. They don't deserve our help.  They only deserve destruction.
diana		You're him. You.
sir patrick		I am. But I'm not what you thought I was. You blame me, but the truth is...  ... all of this -- I did none of it.
charlie		I can't see where they're taking the gas.
sameer		Wherever Diana is, I think we're gonna need her.
diana		 I am Diana of Themyscira, daughter of Hippolyta... and I am here to complete her mission --
diana		The Godkiller...
diana		I --
diana		You lie!
diana		I compel you to tell me the truth!
ares		I am.
diana		 No... No, I'd never be a part of that.
charlie		Hurry up!    They're onto us!
steve		Sammy, let's go!
charlie		What are we going to do?
steve		There's not much we can do... if that's what I think it is.
steve		But we can stop that plane.
charlie		If we radio ahead? We can ask Air Corps to shoot her down.
steve		No, if it crashes, it'll wipe out everyone for fifty square miles. We gotta ground it.
sameer		Bad news. It's on a timer.    If we ground it here, same thing.
steve		Is it flammable, Chief?
the chief		Yeah, she said it was hydrogen? It's flammable.
steve		I need you guys to clear me a path to that plane.
charlie		No, Steve!
sameer		Steve!
diana		What?
the chief		Don't shoot!     The whole thing could go!
diana		Steve!
steve		I have the plane.
charlie		But, Steve --
steve		You destroy the lab!       Go!
sameer		 If we go in there, we're not coming back.
another angle		 Ares charges Diana -- he conjures a SPEAR, throwing it at Diana. She blocks it, but again is thrown back as the weapon combusts -- slamming into a TRAIN CAR.  Ares does not relent, conjuring TWIN SWORDS -- swinging them at her -- she dodges the blades, BLOCKS them with her bracelets --
pilot		You hit that, we all go up. The co-pilot nods, puts his gun away -- spots another weapon. The co-pilot rips a FIRE HATCHET off the wall, swinging it hard. Steve dodges the hatchet -- then slams his fist into the co-pilot, sending him back against the GAS BOMBS --
another angle		 Ares conjures a LARGE SWORD, stabbing the roof, stopping himself.  Ares launches at Diana, grabbing her by the neck, lifting her into the air off the hangar.  SIR PATRICK/ARES Is that all you have to offer me?
diana		Steve...
diana		Steve...
diana		NO!!!!
sir patrick		You came here with such hope and determination and look at you now. Mankind did this to you. Join me in the fight... and we can destroy them forever!
steve		Diana!   I have to go.
diana		What are you saying? Steve, whatever it is, I can do it.   Let me do it --
steve		No. It has to be me. I can save today, you can save the world.  I wish we had more time.
diana		What?
steve		I love you.
diana		You're wrong about them...
diana		They're everything you say, but so much more.
diana		It's not about deserve...
diana		It's about what you believe... and I believe in love --
diana		Good-bye, brother.
etta		You saved everyone.
diana		 Steve did that.
charlie		 Did Etta tell you? That General whats-his-name, you know --
etta		Haig.
charlie		He only went and made us all spies! Oops. We're off to Petrograd! Oops.
etta		There's a revolution going on. Even Chief's coming. You should, too.
diana		 I don't think so.
sameer		Behind all beauty, all wisdom, there is pain. You must take your pain and make it beautiful.
diana		Where did you read that?
sameer		I didn't.  You taught us that.
venelia		My Queen --
hippolyta		I know.    The Mother Box... it has awoken.    Alert everyone.
****Dialogues from script :Woodsman.txt****

walter		I'm adjusting okay.
walter		Apartment's okay.
walter		It gives me headaches.
walter		Yeah.
rosen		Good. I'll talk to your physician about the headaches. Maybe he can change the prescription.
walter		The job's okay.
6.		CONTINUED:
rosen		Do I take "okay" to mean you feel good about working there?
walter		I said the job is okay.
rosen		 Have you made any friends there?
walter		I'm not running for Mr. Popularity.
rosen		 You seem a little hostile today.
walter		That was a joke.
rosen		No need to call me doctor. I'm a therapist, not a psychiatrist.
walter		It's all the same.
rosen		Walter, I'd like you to try something for me.
walter		What?
7.		CONTINUED: 
rosen		I'd like you to keep a journal.
walter		A diary?
rosen		That's right.
walter		No way.
rosen		Why not?
walter		Diaries have sent too many guys to prison.
rosen		I don't understand.
walter		Ev-i-dence.
rosen		Oh. It never crossed my mind.
walter		Of course.
rosen		It was just an idea.
walter		Bad idea.
rosen		I thought a journal would encourage you to reflect.
walter		Reflect.
rosen		That's right.
8.		CONTINUED: 
walter		You think reflection is good.
rosen		It's very good, indeed.
walter		How's that?
rosen		By reflection we can derive a deeper meaning from our experience in life. We gain greater understanding about ourselves that can lead to making better choices in our relationships, our careers, and our goals.
walter		You read that in a book.
rosen		Try it.
walter		No fucking way.
rosen		Then think about it.
walter		There a problem?
male pharmacist		problem?
walter		Can you read the prescription?
male pharmacist		Yes.
walter		Can you fill the prescription?
female pharmacist		Yes.
walter		Then I suggest one of you move your ass, because if I don't get my medication I get extremely violent.
walter		Don't need to think fast to handle beer.
carlos		ook some talking to convince your super I was a relative.
walter		I told her all my relatives are good-looking.
carlos		Jesus Christ, man, it's good to see you!
walter		Seems like the whole world's gotten younger.
11.		CONTINUED:
carlos		You doing okay?
walter		Got a job at old Frank's place. His son runs it now.
carlos		Oh man, that kid takes himself real serious.
walter		Yeah, you still with Northland?
carlos		 Foreman now.
walter		No shit.
carlos		Five years.
walter		Beautiful. How's business?
carlos		Booming. Lots of building going on. We can't keep up with all the work. In fact, I just hired a few new guys...
12.		CONTINUED: 
walter		I just recommended you. You still had to prove yourself.
carlos		Hey, is that a school?
walter		K through sixth.
carlos		Living across the street from a grade school. Jesus.
walter		Something wrong with that?
carlos		I was just thinking of... the noise.
walter		I like the noise.
carlos		What?
walter		Law says I can't come within one hundred feet of where children congregate. I figure the distance from my window to the school is one hundred and twenty. Make a bet?
carlos		No way, man, you'd rob me blind!
13.		CONTINUED: 
walter		 You find me a decent place for under three hundred a month in this town, and I'll happily move out of this crap neighborhood.
carlos		I should go. Your sister worries, and when she worries she yells.
walter		How is she?
carlos		Annette? She's good... tense.
walter		When can I see her?
carlos		I'm working on it.
walter		Is it because of Anna?
carlos		I don't know. She won't talk about it.
walter		 You're the only one in the family who still talks to me.
14.		CONTINUED: 
carlos		I remember when they all referred to me as "the little spic poor Annette married." Except her brother. You treated me with respect. pause) Look, you paid your dues. Your slate is clean now.
walter		How old is Anna?
carlos		She'll be twelve next week. We're throwing a big party on Saturday. Wish I could ask you to come...
walter		Only if it's no closer than a hundred feet.
walter		One hundred and ten, one hundred and eleven, one hundred and twelve...
15.		CONTINUED:
16.		CONTINUED:
vicki		GOD DAMN IT! PEDRO! WHAT THE FUCK DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DOING! HOW WOULD YOU FEEL IF SOME FUCKER DID THAT TO YOUR SISTER?! YOU WOULDN'T THINK IT SO FUNNY THEN, WOULD YOU?!
walter		You okay?
vicki		What?
walter		Are you okay?
vicki		 Yeah, I'm fucking fantastic.
17.		CONTINUED: Bob sits down across from Mary-Kay with a tray of food and a newspaper. He opens the paper and starts to read. M
bob		What did who do?
bob		Mind your own business, Mary-Kay.
18.		CONTINUED:
vicki		Want a ride?
walter		I'm all right.
19.		CONTINUED:
vicki		It's fucking freezing out here.
vicki		There's something wrong with this picture.
walter		What picture?
vicki		I'm talking about you.
walter		Me?
vicki		Yeah, you.
20.		CONTINUED:
walter		People without cars.
vicki		Very weird.
walter		No weirder than a sharp, young, good-looking woman working in a lumberyard.
vicki		What's weird about that?
walter		Most women wouldn't choose it.
vicki		Guess I'm not like most women.
walter		I'm just quiet.
vicki		You don't hang out with the other guys.
walter		Neither do you.
vicki		They're all assholes.
21.		CONTINUED: 
walter		I thought you were a dyke.
vicki		What do you think?
vicki		Southern light.
walter		What?
vicki		Your windows face south. Northern light is the purest. But southern light is very good.
walter		I'll buy a plant.
vicki		Y ou should buy several. I've got shitty light in my place, but my plants don't seem to mind. Light's important, but it's not everything.
22.		CONTINUED:
walter		Sorry.
vicki		Thanks.
walter		K through sixth.
vicki		Doesn't it get noisy?
walter		I like the noise.
vicki		My place faces a truck street. I've got cracks in every window from the shaking.
walter		You must hate it.
vicki		I go backpacking a lot. Lose myself in the wilderness for a week or two.
walter		What about bears?
vicki		What about them?
23.		CONTINUED: 
walter		They could eat you.
vicki		 Yeah, they could.
walter		What?
vicki		You're damaged.
walter		Yeah?
vicki		I'm not easily shocked.
walter		I get that Vimpression.
vicki		So... what's your dark secret?
walter		Why do you want to know?
vicki		Don't you think I should know before we have sex?
24.		CONTINUED: 
walter		What?
vicki		Are you going to tell me your deep dark secret before we have sex?
walter		No.
vicki		Okay.
25.		CONTINUED:
walter		So, you're not a dyke.
vicki		Not tonight.
walter		You're still here.
vicki		I didn't say I didn't enjoy it.
walter		Of course. Sorry. I'm such a fucking asshole.
vicki		No you're not.
26.		CONTINUED:
walter		Don't tell me I'm not a fucking asshole when I know I'm a fucking asshole!
vicki		What's the Wproblem?
walter		You think I have a problem?
vicki		Do you?
walter		 It's been a while since...
vicki		Since you've had sex?
walter		Maybe later.
vicki		How about in the morning.
walter		The morning?
vicki		I thought I'd stay the night.
walter		What for?
27.		CONTINUED: 
vicki		Well, Walter, this is going to sound off-the-wall, but I like to sleep with a man after we fuck.
walter		I suffer from insomnia.
vicki		Is that all?
walter		When I do sleep, I sweat a lot. Usually I get nightmares and wake up screaming.
vicki		 I sleep like a dead horse. Anything else?
osen		ow's the journal?
walter		I'm still thinking about it.
rosen		I wish you'd give it a try.
walter		It's okay.
rosen		But you don't like coming here. Be honest, Walter.
29.		CONTINUED:
walter		Honest? No.
rosen		Good. That's an honest answer. And why don't you like coming here?
walter		Honest? Your cheery personality makes my skin itch.
rosen		 Is it just my cheery personality that makes your skin itch?
walter		Forget it.
rosen		Maybe it's the way I look. Or the sound of my name.
walter		Rosen? I don't have a problem with that.
rosen		Because if you did, I know a therapist named Ryan. I also know a therapist named Chung.
walter		I don't need someone else.
rosen		Fine.
walter		But for the last few weeks I've noticed someone else watching them.
irl		Sorry!
vicki		What?
vicki		Why's that?
32.		CONTINUED:
vicki		 Yeah, Mary-Kay, I think I do. Thanks a bunch for the advice.
vicki		Well, Mary, you're about as helpful as a broken sewer pipe. You do know what runs out of a sewer pipe, don't you?
vicki		Hey.
vicki		Hey, there.
walter		 Hi.
vicki		What happened to you?
34.		CONTINUED:
walter		Why do you want to know?
vicki		Because I like you.
walter		What's the worst thing you ever did?
vicki		The worst?
walter		Yeah.
vicki		Fucked my best friend's husband.
35.		CONTINUED: 
walter		I molested little girls.
vicki		Molested little girls?
walter		Yeah.
vicki		You're not joking.
walter		Twelve years in prison is no joke.
36.		CONTINUED: 
vicki		How many girls did you molest?
walter		Obviously one too many. 
vicki		What did you do to them?
walter		 It's not what you think.
vicki		How young?
walter		Between ten and twelve. Once a nine- year-old told me she was eleven. Once a fourteen-year-old told me she was twelve. I always asked how old they were. V
vicki		So it was mostly fondling? Shit like that?
walter		I never hurt them. Never.
vicki		Twelve years in prison?
37.		CONTINUED: 
walter		The judge had a thing about sex offenders. Later I heard his daughter had been raped. If I hadn't had a good lawyer, it would have been twenty-five to thirty.
vicki		I told you I'm not easily shocked.
walter		You should be shocked. Or do you get off on this shit?
vicki		What?
walter		Get your kicks somewhere else.
vicki		Hey, I'm not --
walter		Depraved? My mistake.
vicki		Walter.
walter		Get the fuck out of here!
vicki		You don't molest little girls anymore, do you?
38.		CONTINUED: 
walter		No. Never again. V
walter		What are you doing?
carlos		his little table is one heavy bitch.
walter		herry.
carlos		Huh?
walter		It's made from cherry. That's a hard wood.
carlos		It's a nice table.
walter		Notice the grain. See how deep and rich the red runs?
carlos		Yeah. It's really nice.
walter		It's my own design. You won't find another table like it in the world.
carlos		It was a beautiful present. W
walter		Then why the fuck are you giving it back to me?!
carlos		 You need a table.
40.		CONTINUED:
walter		he was going to throw it out, wasn't she? Just toss it like a scrap of wood.
carlos		It wasn't like that.
walter		Then what? What?!
carlos		he's got all this new furniture now. She said it didn't fit anymore, so I kept it in the attic. I thought you might like it.
walter		I made that table for you and Annette, for your wedding. I put a lot of love into it.
carlos		I know, man. I love this table too.  But I also love my wife.
walter		Mariners are pounding the shit out of the Tigers.
carlos		Fucking Mariners.
41.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Fucking Tigers. They got no pitching except for a bunch of green kids straight out of Double A or Southern Cal.  How was the party?
carlos		What party?
walter		The birthday party.
carlos		Oh,   Anna's. It was great, man. Anna was   so pretty. getting excited) She   looked like a princess, like one   of those girls in a fairy tale, you   know, like Snow White.
walter		No thanks.
carlos		Ah, come on.
walter		 I don't want to see any goddamn pictures.
carlos		They're just photos I took of the party.
42.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Carlos.  I want to see my sister and Anna in person. Okay?
carlos		Yeah, man, I understand.
rosen		How do you feel about that?
walter		I don't feel anything. R
osen		You have no feelings for your niece?
walter		She was born after they put me away. How can I have feelings?
rosen		Then why are you talking about this?
walter		Have to talk about something.
rosen		What are you afraid will happen?
43.		CONTINUED:
walter		I'm not afraid. I'm just saying that Carlos has a thing for his daughter, and if he isn't careful he's going to suffer.
rosen		Have you talked to Carlos about your concerns?
walter		I'm not that crazy.
rosen		Do you think you're crazy?
walter		If I'm not, then what the hell am I doing here?
rosen		Why do you think you're here?
walter		You know why. It's part of the parole deal.
rosen		Is that what you are angry about?
walter		Talking to you is like riding on a merry-go-round.
rosen		That is a marvelous image, Walter. Because by going in circles we find the things we missed the first time around.
walter		How long is this going to take?
44.		CONTINUED: 
rosen		 We have a few more minutes.
walter		I mean, when will I be normal.
rosen		 We have a lot of work to do.
walter		 Will I ever be normal?
rosen		I couldn't say.
walter		You couldn't say.
rosen		I'm afraid not.
walter		Do you know what "normal" is? R
osen		I suppose it's however society defines it.
walter		How do you define it?
rosen		I don't.
walter		Then how do you know if your patients are getting better?
rosen		They usually tell me.
walter		How do they know?
45.		CONTINUED: 
rosen		What is your idea of being normal?
walter		 What is your idea of being a Jew?
rosen		 Why don't we continue this on Thursday.
walter		 I want to be normal!
rosen		Then go see a therapist who will tell you you're normal!
walter		Fuck you, Rosen!
rosen		I know --
walter		You don't know!
rosen		I know you're frustrated, Walter, but --
46.		CONTINUED:
47.		CONTINUED:
walter		Fine thanks.
walter		Excuse me. Got another load coming in.
48.		CONTINUED: She prunes dead leaves from one of them, then pauses looking at the leaves in her hands.
vicki		Don't die on me, you little shit.
vicki		You want to go for a ride?
vicki		What was prison like?
49.		CONTINUED:
walter		 Y ou don't really --
vicki		Yes! I want to know.
walter		Prison is... time.
vicki		You mean the time you're locked away?
walter		No. Prison is time. That's it. You think time, you feel time, you hear time. Your heart doesn't beat to live, it just beats... time.
vicki		I'm sorry, Walter.
walter		 Don't be sorry for me. I did those things. No one else did. I'm dealing with that.
vicki		My father took me fishing here when I was a kid. He could name every fish in the lake. And for every fish he named, he had a fishing story. I hated fishing, but I loved his stories.
walter		Sounds like a special guy.
50.		CONTINUED: 
vicki		My father was an alcoholic who drank himself right into the grave.
walter		I've changed.
vicki		Why young girls, Walter?
walter		 Their power. They seduce me.
vicki		They seduce you?
walter		I was always the one seduced.
vicki		You really believe that?
walter		 No. That's what I used to tell myself.   V
vicki		And what do you tell yourself now?
51.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Nothing. It's over.
vicki		Bullshit.
walter		Okay. Then take me home.
vicki		I want you to change my mind!
walter		I had this plan once... or maybe it was a dream. I was going to quit the building business... open my own shop. Make and design fine country furniture. I had saved enough money. I found the perfect place. Cheap five-year-lease. The loan was in the bag. My wife was a hundred percent behind it. Everything was set... Then I got in trouble.  Do you know what the worst kind of trouble is?
52.		CONTINUED: 
walter		gently) You know, this is crazy.
vicki		What?
walter		Being here, with me.
53.		CONTINUED:
vicki		I know.
walter		 Most people say the odds are against me.
vicki		What odds?
walter		The percentages --
vicki		Well, most people are stupid. pause) You want to talk about odds? One day I'll tell you how I survived as the youngest in a family of three sons. You wanna talk about odds?
walter		Why not tell me now?
vicki		I got poked around... here and there.
walter		Which brother did this?
vicki		All three -- in chronological order.
54.		CONTINUED: 
walter		You must hate your brothers.
vicki		I love my brothers.
walter		No you don't.
vicki		I love all of them. They're strong, gentle men with families of their own. And if you asked them about what they did to me, they'd call you a fucking liar and then beat the shit out of you.
walter		You never asked them about it?
vicki		 Are you serious?
walter		Not ever?
vicki		Not ever. V
55.		CONTINUED:
lucas		Hiya, Walter.
walter		Cop.
man		Sergeant Lucas.  May I come in?
walter		You are in.
lucas		So I am. But I always like to ask.
walter		What's up?
lucas		Have a seat.
walter		I have no idea.
lucas		I think you do.
walter		Why don't you just tell me?
56.		CONTINUED: 
lucas		Then you won't mind if I look around.
walter		I would.
lucas		Got something to hide?
walter		Doesn't everybody?
lucas		I could get a search warrant.
walter		If you could, you would have brought one today.
lucas		Cherry?
walter		Yeah.
lucas		Unusual design for a contemporary piece.
walter		It's not for sale.
lucas		Who said I wanted to buy it?
57.		LUCAS Seems there's been a number of attacks on young girls in the vicinity. Kind of a coincidence, wouldn't you say? W
walter		If you tell me when this happened --
lucas		Move your fucking hands away from your pockets!
walter		You can't talk to me like --
58.		LUCAS I could say you jumped when I came in. Who are they going to believe? Not you, because you'd be a dead piece of shit.
walter		 Okay.
59.		CONTINUED:
60.		CONTINUED:
walter		No, I'm --
walter		I don't know.
rosen		What did you think would happen?
walter		I don't know.
rosen		What did you want to happen? W
walter		I don't know!
61.		CONTINUED:
rosen		Is this the first one?
walter		Of course it is! That's why I'm telling you!
rosen		I want you to calm down.
walter		I want to talk about it now.
62.		CONTINUED: 
rosen		We'll talk about it more on Thursday.
walter		Remember when you asked me what my idea of "normal" was? R
osen		 Go home, Walter.
walter		Now I know. It's when I can see a girl, be near a girl, even talk to a girl... and walk away.  That's my idea of being normal.
walter		Maybe this isn't a good idea.
vicki		What?
walter		 Us seeing each other.
63.		CONTINUED:
vicki		You're scared.
walter		I'm not scared. V
vicki		Neither am I.
walter		Maybe you should be.
vicki		Well, Walter, I got an idea of my own.
walter		 Live together.
vicki		Move in with me.
walter		It's a bad idea.
vicki		I think it's a fucking good idea.
64.		CONTINUED: 
walter		I don't even know how to live with myself.
vicki		Just think about it.
walter		I've got problems.
vicki		Who doesn't?
walter		Most people don't have my kind of problems.
vicki		Guess that makes you pretty special.
walter		That's not what I meant.
vicki		Fine. V
walter		hat's this?
vicki		What's it look like?
walter		I don't need a plant.
vicki		Everyone needs a plant. This ivy is one tough baby. It's a cutting from one of mine.
walter		Thank you.
vicki		You're such an asshole.
66.		CONTINUED:
walter		 I'm not scared.
vicki		Prove it.
walter		Hey.
walter		Fine thanks. How are you, Mary-Kay?
walter		 I got plans.
68.		CONTINUED:
osen		You're very late.
walter		Sorry.
rosen		Please don't do it again.
walter		I said I was sorry.
rosen		I can't move my patients around to accommodate one person.
69.		CONTINUED:
walter		You mean my problem?
rosen		If by "problem" you mean your desire for prepubescent girls, yes.
walter		I don't know.
rosen		That's not a helpful answer.
walter		That's my answer.
rosen		lose your eyes.
walter		What?
rosen		I'd like you to close your eyes.
walter		Why?
rosen		To relax.
walter		 I'm relaxed.
rosen		Close your eyes and let your mind be blank.
walter		Hey, Rosen, you going to hypnotize me?
70.		CONTINUED: 
rosen		No, I am not going to --
walter		 Okay. Eyes closed, mind a blank. I'm all yours. Do it, Rosen.
rosen		When I say the word "girl" what is the earliest image that you can remember?
walter		Nothing. Can I open my eyes?
rosen		No. When I say the word "pretty," when I say the word "pleasure," what is the earliest memory you see?
walter		I don't see --
rosen		In your mind, Walter. Take your time.
walter		 I see my sister.
rosen		Where is she? What is she doing? ow old --
71.		CONTINUED: 
walter		 Not so fast.
rosen		Sorry.  Where is she?
walter		In my bedroom, sleeping.
rosen		Where?
walter		In my bed, Rosen. Where do you think?
rosen		Where are you?
walter		In my bed too.
rosen		How old are you and your sister?
walter		We're little kids.
rosen		But roughly, how old?
walter		I'm maybe about six... which would make her four.
rosen		And what are you doing?
72.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Just lying there.  We're taking a nap.
rosen		A nap?
walter		Yes, a nap. Kids do that. You ever take a nap, Rosen?
rosen		Did you and your sister often take naps together?
walter		 I want you back in your chair! Right now!
rosen		All right.
walter		I don't like nobody behind my back!
rosen		I'm sorry. I shouldn't have been there.
73.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Nothing.
rosen		Did you touch her? Did you take off her clothes? Did you take off your clothes?
walter		This is garbage!
rosen		I'm only asking questions.
walter		Okay I'll tell you what I did -- just to shut you up!  I smelled her hair.
rosen		What else?
walter		That's all. I just liked smelling her hair.
rosen		You felt pleasure.
walter		 Yes.
rosen		Did you get an erection?
74.		CONTINUED: 
walter		 I was six years old!
rosen		I meant later... when you two took naps.
walter		It was a small house.
rosen		All right. A small house... with small rooms.
walter		 I smelled her hair. That's it. I just liked smelling her hair.
carlos		I've got some good news.
walter		What's that?
75.		CONTINUED:
carlos		Annette will see you.
walter		When?
carlos		Soon.
walter		Next week? The week after?
carlos		Early July.
walter		Tell Annette I'm busy in July.
carlos		C'mon, Walter.
walter		You should see my appointment book. It got crazy. C
carlos		It's not what you think.
76.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Isn't it?
carlos		The important thing is that you and Annette need to talk. She needs to see you, and you need to see her.
walter		 I'm not a monster.
carlos		You're a good man, Walter. Okay, you did some wrong things, but inside you're a good, decent man.
walter		Maybe I'm not a good man. Maybe inside I'm bad, and I'll always be bad.
carlos		on't talk like that.
walter		You don't have to tell me this.
77.		CONTINUED: 
carlos		I'm just talking, man.
walter		Carlos, I never raped a woman.
carlos		I know. I'm just saying I understand.
walter		Maybe because you're looking her in the face.
carlos		I see a pretty woman, I look. That's the price of beauty, my friend. My god, you should see what Anna's friends wear.
walter		Carlos, can I ask you something?
carlos		Sure.
78.		CONTINUED: 
walter		 N othing.
carlos		Ask me. Ask me anything.
walter		 Did you ever... Do you have feelings for Anna?
carlos		What do you mean?
walter		I mean... feelings.
carlos		Listen, man. I don't got your sick problem, and if you or anybody else ever comes near my daughter, I'll kill you.
79.		CONTINUED:
vicki		Walter...
walter		Don't touch me... please.
80.		CONTINUED:
81.		CONTINUED: 
vicki		What are you doing?
walter		Don't do that.
vicki		Do what?
walter		Sneak up behind me like that.
vicki		What's your fucking problem?
walter		Why's it always my fucking problem?
vicki		What's going on?
walter		Nothing.
82.		CONTINUED:
vicki		Do you want to talk about it?
walter		I need a shower.
83.		CONTINUED:
girl		Hello.
walter		Birds.
girl		 There's a million birds here.
walter		In that birch tree is a nest.
girl's voice		 Where?
walter		 Up there.
girl		There's little chicks!  You want to see?
walter		Sure.
84.		CONTINUED: 
girl		They're starlings.
walter		 Is that right?
girl		I don't like starlings.
walter		Why not?
girl		They're extremely aggressive birds. Plus, their habits are rather filthy.
walter		The mother sure has her hands full.
girl		When I go bird-watching. It's why I like coming here.
walter		It's just a city park.
girl		You'd be surprised how many kinds of birds you'll see here. Last week I saw a purple martin. And the week before that, I saw a solitary vireo. That's rare.
walter		A solitary vireo. I like that one.
girl		Their sound is quite musical.
85.		CONTINUED: 
walter		How does it sound?
girl		It's hard to describe.
walter		Try.
girl		I can't.
walter		I bet you can.
girl		 It's a bright sound.
walter		G That was terrific.
irl		You should hear the bird.
walter		You live around here?
86.		GIRL Are you a bird-watcher too?
walter		Me? Nah. I'm more of a people watcher.
girl		Were you watching me?
walter		 Not   at first. You would stare at the   tops of the trees so intently. Any   second I thought you would take off   and fly.
girl		I have to go.
walter		Do you come here often?
irl		My daddy likes me home before dark.
walter		It's good to listen to your daddy.
87.		CONTINUED:
walter		 Fucking Rosen! This isn't helping.
lucas		Hiya, Walter.
walter		What can I do for you, Sergeant Lucas?
lucas		Have a seat.
88.		CONTINUED:
walter		What?
lucas		Your ivy. Too much direct sunlight. These plants don't like a lot of sun.      W
walter		They grow outside, don't they?
lucas		Sure they do. But outside they've got trees around them. The trees shade them from the sun. Of course, the plants enrich the soil around the trees. One of nature's symbiotic relationships.
walter		You going to take me on a nature walk?
lucas		Don't be witty.  Yesterday you took the number twelve bus from work, but instead of getting off at your normal stop, for some reason you stayed on. Why did you stay on the bus, Walter?
walter		I fell asleep.
89.		CONTINUED: 
lucas		You walked home.
walter		Yes.
lucas		Some of these guys... They walk right into a family's home as if they live there. Very fucking ballsy.
walter		Fairy tales?
lucas		Do you believe in them?
90.		CONTINUED: 
walter		No.
lucas		Neither do I.  What's the one with the woodsman?
walter		Woodsman?
lucas		The one with the ax?
walter		I don't know.
lucas		Sure you do. He cuts open the wolf's stomach, and the girl steps out alive.
walter		Little Red Riding Hood.
lucas		That's it. Little Red Riding Hood jumps out of the wolf's guts with hardly a scratch.  Ever see a seven-year-old girl sodomized almost in half?
91.		CONTINUED: 
walter		You knew her?
lucas		What?
walter		The girl.
lucas		 I don't know why they keep letting scum like you return to the streets. It just means we've got to catch you all over again.
walter		You have no right to talk to... to speak like... I am not!... I am not!
irl		Wallie, what are you doing?
92.		CONTINUED: 
vicki		 Come on, let's get out of here.
pedro		Don't tell me you feel sorry for this sick fuck.
vicki		Mind your own business, Pedro!
93.		CONTINUED:
bob		What the hell is going on here?!
vicki		Have you seen Walter?
bob		What the hell is going on? V
vicki		If she's here tomorrow, I'll fucking kill her.
vicki		Shit.
vicki		Thanks again. I promised I'd take care of his plants.
96.		CONTINUED:
97.		CONTINUED: Children abound, playing, running free, getting off of school buses, running to meet their parents. There is no sign of Walter.
girl		See anything interesting?
walter		Not yet.
girl		It's my bird book.
walter		Where are your friends?
girl		I have friends.
98.		CONTINUED:
walter		A pretty girl like you should have a lot of friends.
girl		I'm not pretty.
walter		Well... not in the common way.
girl		What does that mean?
walter		It means uncommon beauty is commonly overlooked. Most people only notice birds with the brightest colors.
girl		 Robin.
robin		Yeah, like the bird.
99.		CONTINUED: 
walter		 Can I ask how old you are?
robin		I'm twelve.
walter		No you're not.
robin		I will be in three months.  I can't wait. I hate being eleven. It has to be the stupidest age in the world.
walter		Walter.
robin		Do you have many friends?
walter		No.
robin		How come?
walter		A long time ago, I was sent far away. When they let me come back, all my friends were gone.
robin		It sounds like you were banished.
walter		Banished... yeah.
100.		CONTINUED: 
robin		Birds are my friends. That sounds egotistical, but they are. Birds know I watch them, but they don't mind because they like being watched... if they know you won't hurt them.
walter		Robin?
robin		Yes?
walter		Would you like to sit on my lap?
robin		What?
walter		Would you like to sit on my lap?
robin		 No thank you.
walter		Are you sure?
robin		I'm sure. Thank you all the same.
walter		That's okay... doesn't matter.
robin		 Do you want me to sit on your lap?
walter		Yes. I would enjoy that.
101.		CONTINUED: 
robin		 They sound like finches.
walter		They could be finches. I don't know. We should go before it gets dark.
robin		My daddy lets me sit on his lap.
walter		Does he?
robin		Yes.
102.		CONTINUED: 
walter		Do you like it when he asks you?
robin		No.
walter		Why not?
103.		CONTINUED: 
robin		Ms. Kramer.
walter		Tell Ms. Kramer what your daddy does.
robin		I can't.
walter		Yes you can, Robin.
robin		What will happen if I do?
walter		Someone will talk to your daddy. And then he'll stop doing those things... the things you don't like.
104.		CONTINUED: 
robin		But will he... ?
walter		Your daddy will always love you.
robin		How do you know?
walter		I know because... it's just something I know.
robin		I don't want to hurt my daddy.
walter		Robin, listen to me.
robin		Walter?
walter		Yes?
robin		Do you still want me to sit on your lap?
105.		CONTINUED: 
walter		No.
robin		I don't mind.
walter		You should go home.
robin		Can't I stay a little longer?
walter		It's getting dark. Go home.
robin		Will I see you again?
walter		Go home, Robin.
robin		Bye.
106.		CONTINUED:
walter		Hey!
walter		It's open.
lucas		Hi ya, Walter.
walter		What can I do for you, Sergeant Lucas?
lucas		You don't know?
walter		Know what?
lucas		I'll be asking the questions.  Last night, you hear anything unusual? Screams? Shouts?
walter		No.
110.		CONTINUED:
lucas		man was badly beaten across the street. You know anything about that?
walter		I was asleep.
lucas		 I didn't say what time the assault occurred.
walter		You said last night. I went to bed pretty early.
lucas		The assault took place at approximately seven thirty.
walter		I went to bed around seven.
lucas		I could take you downtown.
walter		You could. It'd be a waste of your time, though.
lucas		There was a boy there.
111.		CONTINUED: 
walter		I suppose if you're looking for a male between the ages of thirty and fifty, medium height, medium weight, medium build. Probably not too many men fit that bill.
lucas		Just give me a straight answer, Walter, cause the irony goes right over my head.
walter		I have a passionate girlfriend.
lucas		What's with the boxes?
walter		You're a cop. Figure it out.
lucas		I'd say you're moving.
walter		It's a free country, isn't it?
112.		CONTINUED: 
lucas		The passionate one?
walter		Yes.
lucas		Then I'd say you're a lucky fellow.
walter		I count my blessings.
lucas		Well, I guess I'll be seeing you.
walter		Think you'll catch this guy?
lucas		Oh, yeah. We'll catch him. Unfortunately, the victim can't talk. In addition to his other injuries, his jaw is broken.
walter		`Fraid not.
113.		CONTINUED: 
lucas		Stay out of trouble, Walter. Cause I'll be watching you.
vicki		You okay?
walter		Yeah.
vicki		Fucking liar.
walter		I heard they were filthy birds.
vicki		Not when they fly.
114.		CONTINUED:
walter		It was hard.
115.		WALTER CONTINUED: I understand that. I do. I just hope... I just want her to...
rosen		Accept you?
walter		 Time.
rosen		How do you feel about that?
walter		I feel... okay.
****Dialogues from script :World_is_not_Enough.txt****

lachaise		Not the usual Swiss procedure, Mr. Bond, but you understand, a man in my position..
bond		Which is neutral, no doubt.
lachaise		It wasn't easy, but I retrieved the money.  No doubt Sir Robert will be pleased to see it again.
lachaise		In the current exchange rate, minus the fees, of course, and certain unforeseeable expenses. Here is the receipt...
cigar girl		Would you like to check my figures?
bond		Perhaps later.
bond		My glasses.
lachaise		It's all there.
bond		I didn't come for the money. The report you sold him was stolen from an MI-6 agent, who was killed for it.
lachaise		I did not get the report from an MI-6 agent.
bond		Who did you get it from?
lachaise		I am just a middle man. I am doing the honourable thing and returning the money to its rightful owner...
bond		And we know how difficult that can be for the Swiss.
lachaise		 Your last chance. Take the money.
bond		Your last chance. Give me the name.
lachaise		Stripped of all your weaponry, you still threaten me?
bond		Perhaps you failed to take into account my...hidden assets.
bond		The name?
lachaise		I can't tell you...  Alright, alright! But you must protect me!
renard		What's his name? Our friend from MI-6?
cigar girl		James Bond.
renard		One of M's more accomplished tin soldiers.
cigar girl		He could identify me.
renard		If it concerns you...kill him.
renard		Let's toast this James Bond.  We're in his hands now...
bond		Have this checked, see what you can get off it.
moneypenny		James.  Brought me a souvenir from Geneva?
bond		Thought you might want one of these.
moneypenny		 She's in with Sir Robert.
sir robert		Thanks for getting my money back --never expected to see it again.  You're the kind of man I could use.  Though I won't offend certain parties by asking you to join King Industries.
bond		Construction's not exactly my line.
bond		Old friend?
bond		Who buys classified reports for three million pounds.
bond		Someone was watching over me in Geneva. A guardian angel with a laser sight.
bond		King.
moneypenny		 Security --
sir robert		Thanks, but I'll count it myself.  Lifetime habit.  I'm Scottish.
bond		Stop!  King!
woman		Beautiful, isn't it?
bond		Yes.
woman		Today, of all days, the sun decides to shine.
bond		Perhaps Sir Robert had a word with the Man Upstairs.
woman		A word? I'm sure by now he's engineered a hostile takeover.
bond		You knew him well?
woman		He was my father.
bond		I'm sorry.
woman		He died before he could complete his lifelong dream.  I intend to finish it for him.
older man		Elektra!
elektra		Excuse me.
bond		She's not a girl anymore.
bond		It's barely a scratch. The Dome broke my fall.
doctor greatrex		Dislocated collar bone.  If any more tendons snap...  It won't just be two weeks out of action.
bond		I need you to pass me fit now, Molly.
bond		It's just a scratch.
doctor greatrex		James.  It wouldn't really be...
bond		Ethical?  Can't we just skirt the issue?
doctor greatrex		...if you showed sufficient...willpower. Promised to slow down.  Cut out running, jumping...shooting.  All kinds of...
bond		Strenuous activity?
doctor greatrex		Then maybe I'd be... open to that.
bond		 Perhaps after this ... test?
doctor greatrex		...yes?...
bond		I could come for a second opinion?
tanner		...The money was dipped in urea, dried, and packed tight. In one note the metal strip had been replaced with a combustible magnesium circuit -- in effect a tiny detonator. King always wore a pin in his lapel, an heirloom called 'the Eye of the Glens'; but someone switched it for a copy, a ceramic micro- circuit emitting an electronic signature.
tanner		When he came within range of the money -- boom.  Ingenious.
tanner		And expensive.  Cost three million plus.
bond		Caviar capital of the world. Matchless beluga. Firm, yet subtle.  Largest landlocked body of water on Earth.  Oil-rich.  Hitler wanted it. Stalin beat him to it.
robinson		Latest estimates, six trillion dollars. It'll make the Gulf look like a puddle, see us right through the new century. The problem is getting the oil out of there.
bond		So Sir Robert's goes through Turkey, direct to the Med...?
robinson		A huge project. The most expensive of the pipelines, but the one supported by every Western leader. None of the American oil companies were willing to take it on. But King has connections to the region. He married into the Vavra family, rich local industrialists. He used those connections to hold it all together.
bond		Kill the man, kill the pipeline.
tanner		Your call to the PM.
newscaster		...somehow managed to shoot two of her captors and escape...
voice		... the leader, the one who escaped.  Can you describe him?
elektra		He shouted.  He shouted all the time --
bond		Tell me about the kidnapping of Elektra King.
bond		I took the initiative.
bond		I was the one who brought that money in...
bond		The amount of money that killed Robert King is the same amount as the ransom demand for Elektra.
bond		Whoever kidnapped Elektra is the same man who killed her father.
bond		Who?
bond		 Renard.
bond		Sacrifice the girl to take out the terrorist?
bond		He survived?
bond		'That which does not kill me makes me stronger.'
bond		He's not through yet. Renard doesn't blow up five million dollars unless he knows there's more coming in. He's working for someone. Someone who wants to stop the pipeline.  And they hired the perfect killer. One with a vendetta against King...and you.
moneypenny		He's always been good at oral exams.
bond		The worm on the hook again.
bond		Scottish heavy metal, Q?
bond		And other uses, no doubt.
bond		 That would make you..."R"?
davidov		 Bond. A government man. I'm afraid since you English got the boss killed we've been a little...jumpy.
bond		 I'd rather you didn't play with that.
davidov		Nice.
bond		Quite stunning.
davidov		 Sorry about all that, comrade. Old habits die hard. I am Head of Security. Davidov.
elektra		 ...they should have been in place two days ago. That is the target my father set.
foreman		We've had some trouble with the villagers at Ruan. Some sacred burial plot...
davidov		Miss King...James Bond here to see you.
elektra		Find me the research on the limestone deposits, go ahead and place these orders, and get the jeep ready. I will go to Ruan myself...
davidov		Miss King, I wouldn't recommend...
elektra		I said, I will go.
elektra		Would you excuse us, Davidov?
elektra		I met you at my father's funeral.
bond		Yes.
elektra		I haven't been able to recall a single moment of that day...until now.
bond		Funerals aren't exactly memorable.
elektra		God no. All those horrible loved ones and relatives. I don't want to talk to those people. I just want to...talk to my father.  I loved him.  I'm not sure he knew that.
bond		Is that why you want to finish the pipeline?
elektra		Partially, yes.
gabor		The jeep is ready, Ma'am.  Will I be driving with you?
elektra		No, Gabor. We have a guest.
bond		Who is he?
elektra		My bodyguard. He follows me everywhere. He's decisive, vigilant.  And he makes an excellent omelette.
bond		How long has he been with you?
elektra		Since the kidnapping. Why do you ask?
bond		Does this look familiar to you?
elektra		It's my father's pin. He wore it everyday of his life.
elektra		Are you trying to break my heart? Or is it just your way with women?
bond		It's not the pin your father wore. It's an exact duplicate. Inside is a tiny electrical detonator. We have reason to believe the assassin had an inside accomplice, someone who worked at this company.
elektra		If you've come here to look after me, Mr. Bond, thank you, but no thank you.  I have two bodyguards, I don't need a third...
bond		The killer doesn't want to see this pipeline continue, doesn't want to see you take over...
elektra		That's every man within a five mile radius.  Including you.  That's why you're here, isn't it? You think I can't do it. You think I'm going to screw up. Or get myself killed.
bond		I think running this pipeline would be a difficult job for anyone. Especially King's daughter.
elektra		You are wrong, Mr. Bond. In fact, I am the only person who can do it.
elektra		My mother's people discovered oil here ninety years ago.  The Bolsheviks slaughtered them for it.  Will be one of the main arteries...
elektra		Send the pipe around.
foreman		It will take weeks, cost millions. Your father approved this route.
elektra		Then my father was wrong.
elektra		I have to check the upper lines.  Gabor will drive you back.
bond		Always wanted to see the upper lines.
elektra		You don't take no for an answer, do you?
bond		No.
elektra		Alright then. Do you ski?
bond		I've been known to.
pilot		Can't land.  Wind's too strong!
elektra		Just hold her steady.  You wanted to see it.
elektra		We're building from both ends.  This is where they'll meet.  Fifteen hundred miles from the Caspian to the Mediterranean.
bond		Head for that gully, I'll lure them into the trees!
bond		 Should have stuck to snowboarding.
elektra		Are they gone? All of them?
bond		Hold on to me.
elektra		Oh my God...we're buried alive...
bond		We're alright.
elektra		I can't stay here.
bond		You're not going to.
elektra		No!  It will cave in!
bond		It's the only way out...
elektra		I can't breathe, I can't breathe...
bond		Elektra, look at me, look in my eyes!
doctor		She's fine. Contusions. A slight strain to her ankle, but otherwise, fine.  She wants to see you.
elektra		Are you alright?
bond		I can't stay.
elektra		I know.
elektra		I need to ask you something.  And I need you to tell me the truth.
elektra		Who is it? Who is trying to kill me?
bond		I don't know. But I will find him.
elektra		After the kidnapping...I was afraid to go outside, to be alone, to be in a crowd, to do anything at all, until I realized...  There's no point in living if you can't...feel alive.
elektra		I can't huddle in the shadows. I can't let fear run my life.  I won't.
elektra		The way I acted, in the snow...you must think I'm a coward.
bond		I think you're one of the bravest people I've ever met.
elektra		What is it?
bond		...you should rest.
elektra		James...
bond		I have to go.
elektra		Then take me with you.
bond		No. You'll be safe here.
elektra		I don't want to be safe!
bond		I have to go to work.
elektra		Now who's the coward?
bond		Valentin Zukovsky.
zukovsky		BondJamesBond. What brings you here?
bond		You, of course. I need some information.
zukovsky		Bond, I'm a civilian. This is my place. Used to be the royal family's, now it's mine. I run my little business, I stay out of trouble...
bond		 Mafia warlords, Diplomats and spies, consortiums from every country in the world.  A nice little rat's nest.
zukovsky		 Have some of the rat's nest caviar.  From my own fishery.  They buy my caviar, drink my champagne, lose to my House.
zukovsky		Let me introduce you to a former colleague of mine at the KGB. Dmitri Palov, you may know him as...the Boa.
boa		The great 007. For years I have dreamed of closing my hands around your neck.
bond		Boa. Have you had any therapy since Perestroika?
zukovsky		Why am I suddenly worried I'm not carrying enough insurance?
zukovsky		See?  You're upsetting my customers. What do you want?
bond		How does a terrorist like Renard supply his men with state-of-the-art Russian Army weapons?
zukovsky		What?  This is not possible.
bond		If I remember my Cyrillic that says 101st airborne division.
zukovsky		Where did you get this?
bond		Off a high-powered Paraski that was trying to kill me.
zukovsky		The Russian Army, they spend millions on flying skis, but they cannot afford to pay the soldiers. The men, they do what they have to do to feed their families. In this country, for the right price and a pack of cigarettes, you can get anything you want.
zukovsky		That too. Everyone does what they can to survive.
bond		How high up does this...arms dealing go?
zukovsky		Bond. If someone wants you dead, it is Renard. Our government has nothing to gain by killing you.
bond		But you would have something to gain by killing Robert King. And stopping his pipeline.
zukovsky		Poor Bond. The cold war is over.  What have you got left? Economic espionage. Murder in the boardroom.  So dull.
bond		Oh, you'd be surprised.
zukovsky		We've kept your father's chair free.
elektra		And his account?
zukovsky		You have a credit line of a million and a half.
elektra		Vodka martini.
bond		Two. Shaken not stirred.
bond		What the hell are you doing here?
elektra		 What are you doing here?  Looking for a woman a little more your type? How about that one?
bond		If this little show is for my benefit, I'll take you home right now.
elektra		You had your chance, James. Now I'm looking for a bigger thrill.
hooker		You want to be...on top, or not on top?
davidov		On top.
hooker		Tied up, or not tied up?
renard		Dead, or not dead?
bond		I understand it's normally good practice to get the feel of the cards before going off the deep end.
elektra		Really?
dealer		Bust.
elektra		I like the deep end, James.
renard		Is this how you spend the money I pay you? And with the rest you hire fools who shoot like blind men?
davidov		 Bond...
renard		Should be dead as well. Your failure today is astonishing.  It is a disgrace.
renard		Do you know why the color is blue at the wick?
renard		Because that is where the flame is the hottest.
renard		The temperature is close to five hundred degrees.
davidov		The plane...it's all been arranged...
renard		Then you are completely unnecessary...
davidov		I have the documents, the landing authorizations, the security passes...
renard		Bond is suspicious. We are moving sooner, tonight.  We understand each other?
davidov		Yes...yes...
bond		Stand or split them.
elektra		Surely you believe in living dangerously.
bond		Not at that price. Time to surrender.
dealer		The House has no limit.
elektra		 Hit me.
elektra		Time to surrender.
davidov		A little accident.
bond		A night of burning passion?
henchman		Sir?  Sir?
renard		 I will take care of Mister Bond.
elektra		You knew when you first saw me.  You knew it would be like this.
bond		Shush.
elektra		Poor shoulder. Looks painful...
bond		...needs constant attention...
bond		Enough ice for one day.
bond		You never take this off?
elektra		Why do men always want to undress the one part of a woman's body she doesn't want to reveal?
bond		How did you survive?
elektra		I used my body on the guards.  It gave me control. I got to a gun and I took my chance.  I've never told anyone that.
elektra		Do you ever stop, James?  Do you ever think about...another kind of life?
bond		I can't afford to.
elektra		Don't worry. I know who you are.
bond		Problem, comrade?
bond		Old habits die hard.
bond		Here goes nothing.
bond		Romashka.
pilot		 You have fifteen minutes.
colonel akakievich		 You are late. The transport documents?
colonel akakievich		 They are waiting for you below.  It should be ready. Check with the IDA physicist.
colonel akakievich		Not interested in men. Take my word for it.
christmas		You new?
bond		 Yes. Viktor Davidov, Miss...?
christmas		Doctor. Jones. Christmas Jones. No jokes, I've heard them all.
bond		Don't know any doctor jokes.
christmas		What happened to Len Tashka?
bond		Couldn't make it. Splitting headache.
christmas		The soldiers may give you a hard time. Whatever. If we weren't around, they'd have their whole nuclear arsenal lying by the roadsides, rotting in the sun.
bond		Will I need protection?
christmas		There's no radiation danger down there.
christmas		 Where is this stockpile going?
soldier		 See the corporal, at the end of the chamber.
bond		Corporal?
renard		I see my friend Davidov ran into some difficulty.
bond		Indeed.
bond		Don't come any closer.
man		You can't kill me. I'm already dead.
renard		Go ahead.  Shoot.  My men will still steal the bomb, and the shot will bring them directly to you.
bond		Who's paying you to destroy the pipeline?
renard		To die by a man who can't even grasp what he's caught up in...
bond		Revenge isn't so hard to fathom. What's clever is getting someone else to pay for it.
renard		Not many people in this world have that kind of fortune.
bond		Who is it?
renard		You think I fear death? I welcome it. I get on my knees and pray for it. You, on the other hand, you have something to live for, no?  She's beautiful isn't she? You should have seen her before. Flawless, and still so innocent, not such a whore in bed...
bond		You will never touch her. You will never get near her.
renard		Have you forgotten who saved your life in Geneva?
bond		Consider me ungrateful.
renard		It's I who should thank you -- for taking that money back to MI-6.  So distressing for M.  An explosion inside her lair.
bond		She'll get over it.
renard		You even brought the plane for us.  We really couldn't have done it without you.
renard		A man tires of being executed.
renard		But then again...There is no point in living if you can't...feel alive.
colonel akakievich		 Drop your gun.
bond		Keep away, Colonel.
christmas		He is an impostor.  There's no Davidov at Miratom.
bond		Here's your imposter. He's paid off the men on the plane outside.  They're not taking the bomb to any Russian facility, they're flying it wherever he tells them.
colonel akakievich		 I said drop it.
renard		 were you the one who allowed him down?
renard		 You had me.  I knew you couldn't shoulder the responsibility...
colonel akakievich		No -- the bomb does not go anywhere until I am satisfied.  All of you to the surface, now...
renard		 Very well, Colonel. We will all go up.
renard		 Shut them.
christmas		Melt-down doors.  If he gets them closed, they won't be opened again for forty- eight years.
renard		We have our fireworks.  Now you can have yours.
bond		Close the door!  Close the door!
bond		Shame you had to spot I wasn't the real thing.
christmas		So who are you?
bond		Bond --
bond		 James Bond.
christmas		They won't get far. Every warhead has a locator card.  A Miratom device.  Emits a high-pitched signal on Russian emergency frequencies. We can track the bomb.
bond		With this?
tanner		Anywhere in this circle.  Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Syria, Afghanistan...
moneypenny		Elektra King is calling from Baku.
moneypenny		It's a video line.
elektra		I'm sorry. I would never call you except...Bond's disappeared. He...he left my villa, some time in the middle of the night and...
elektra		My head of security has been found near a local airstrip, murdered...
elektra		Could...could you come?
elektra		I just can't help thinking...I'm next.
elektra		Gabor...?
elektra		James!
bond		You look surprised.
elektra		What's wrong with you?  Are you crazy?
bond		A little. Does it matter? After all, what's the point of living if you can't feel alive?  Isn't that right, Elektra? Isn't that your motto?
elektra		What are you talking about?
bond		Or did you steal it from your old friend Renard?
elektra		...what?
bond		We had a run-in, he and I. He knew about us, he knew about my shoulder, he knew exactly where to hurt me...
elektra		Are you saying...Renard is the man who's trying to kill me?
bond		You can drop the act, it's over.
elektra		I don't know what you're talking about!
bond		I think you do.
bond		At MI-6 we call it Stockholm Syndrome. It's common in kidnappings.  A young impressionable victim. Sheltered, sexually inexperienced. A powerful kidnapper skilled in torture, in manipulation. Something snaps in the victim's mind. The captive falls in love with her captor.
elektra		How dare you!  How dare you! That animal!?  That monster!? He disgusts me! You disgust me!  So he knew where to hurt you, is that it? You had a sling on your arm at the funeral! I didn't have to sleep with you to find that out.
bond		He used your exact words.
elektra		You knew.  You knew all the time, that he was out there, that he was coming for me, and you lied. You used me, you used me as bait. You made love to me -- what, to pass the time as you waited for him to strike?
elektra		He's struck again.  Five men are dead at the pipeline.
bond		I'm coming with you.
elektra		You do what you have to do, but I've called in M.  She's en route from London even now.
bond		They hit about 90 minutes ago. There's a scientist here from the International Decommissioning Agency, Dr. Jones.  She has ten crews combing the area.
tanner		I'll see how they're coming with the power...
bond		The report King bought. It's a manual. Renard's men used it to remove this radio tracking device from the warhead.
bond		They're getting their weapons from the Russians, but where are they getting the money to buy the weapons?  I can't help thinking...the person close to King, the one who switched that pin...
bond		Is maybe...the inside woman.
elektra		That's not right.
tanner		What is it?
elektra		It's an observation and repair rig. Travels along the pipe, checks for broken seals.  But it's not supposed to be there.
bond		 Stop it.
technician		I don't understand...
tanner		It's heading for the oil terminal.
elektra		My God.  Have the terminal evacuated.
bond		 Speed?
technician		Full on.  Seventy miles an hour.
technician		One hundred and six miles from the terminal.
bond		 Any more of these rigs?
technician		There's one parked in the passageway ahead of it.
christmas		I'll need some help...
bond		Come on.
bond		Unless you'd like to see my ID first.
tanner		 Good luck.
bond		Be one along any minute.
bond		When this is over we should bury the hatchet. Celebrate. A champagne dinner?
christmas		When this is over our bodies may be blown to smithereens.
bond		Alright then, brunch.
radio man		Tanner reports Bond is headed for the rendezvous.
elektra		You can evacuate my workers, but I'm not going anywhere.
bond		Faster! Get our speed up!
christmas		Tactical fission device.  Low yield.
christmas		The plutonium is missing.  They've taken the core!
bond		Then it's no longer a bomb?
christmas		 It's a bomb alright. We're still dead if the trigger charge goes off...
bond		Let it blow.
christmas		But we can stop it.
bond		Let it blow.
bond		Trust me.  Leave it.
gabor		It wasn't nuclear...the bomb was a dud. The trigger charge blew out a fifty yard section of pipeline...
gabor		Nothing.
elektra		Do you think he's dead?
elektra		 I have a gift for you.  Something that belonged to my father. He would have wanted you to have it.
elektra		Please.
elektra		He often spoke of how...compassionately you advised him on the best course of action during my kidnapping.
elektra		It's very valuable, you know. I just couldn't let it explode with the rest of him.
elektra		 Take her to the chopper.
christmas		What the hell were you doing?  You nearly killed us!
bond		I did kill us. She thinks we're dead. And she thinks she got away with it.
christmas		What the hell are you talking about?
bond		It's part of some plan. She dresses it up like a terrorist attack.  The explosion covers up the theft of the plutonium.
christmas		Who's she?
bond		Elektra King.
christmas		Elektra King?  Are you insane?  This is her pipeline.
bond		Makes her look even more innocent.
christmas		 What would she want with weapons grade plutonium?
bond		I was hoping you could tell me.
christmas		You steal an old bomb, small by today's standards, about the size of the one that destroyed Nagasaki, take the plutonium core out of it, intending to use it...  To make a bigger, better bomb.
christmas		I have to get after that core.  This is my ass.
tanner		Tanner to 007, do you read?
bond		Loud and clear.  I have to speak to M.
tanner		She's gone.
bond		What?
tanner		She's disappeared.  And two of our men have been killed.
christmas		What is it?
bond		She just upped the stakes. All her chips are on the table now.  And M's life is part of the bet.
bond		I know I promised you champagne, but would you settle for caviar?
elektra		You're hurting me.
elektra		Brought me something?
renard		Go on.  It's safe.  Touch your destiny.
elektra		Warm.
renard		 Is it?
elektra		I've brought something for you as well.
elektra		Just as I promised.
renard		My executioner.
elektra		Your people? Your people will leave you here to rot just like you left me. You and my father. He didn't think my life was worth the chump change he spent on a day at the stock market.
elektra		Is nothing.  His kingdom he stole from my mother. The kingdom I will rightly take back.
renard		No. I'm afraid it is what you did.
renard		When I took her she was...promise itself. So clever, so vibrant, so...full of life force. And you left her there, at the mercy of a man like me. You ruined her. For what?  To get to me? She is worth fifty of me.
renard		No. I wanted you. I wanted you for myself.
renard		Since you sent your man to kill me, I have been watching time tick slowly away, marching inevitably toward my own death. Watch these hands, M. At noon tomorrow, your time is up. And I guarantee you...I will not miss.  You will die. Along with everyone in this city and the future of the West.
zukovsky		What are doing, Bond?  Trying to impress this innocent thing?
bond		She's no innocent.  This is my nuclear consultant.
zukovsky		Ah, I see.  A purely...plutonic relationship.
zukovsky		Really Bond, couldn't you find a nice Russian scientist with hair growing out of his ears?
bond		What's your business with Elektra King?
zukovsky		I thought you were the one in her business.
bond		She dropped a million and half dollars to the House -- your House. And you didn't even bat an eyelid.  She was paying you off.  What for?
zukovsky		As ever you are the spy who has to see a plot wherever he looks.
zukovsky		That is 5,000 dollars of Beluga ruined!
bond		You are out of your league.  She's working with Renard.
christmas		They've stolen a nuclear device.
bond		Tell us what you know, Zukovsky.  Tell us, before its too late.
bond		Now...where were we?
zukovsky		A rope!
bond		No.  The truth!  She thought I was dead -- those blades were meant for you.  What do you know that she would kill you for?
zukovsky		I don't know what you're talking --
zukovsky		Help me, don't let me drown.
bond		 You're in this thing up to your neck.
zukovsky		Alright, alright!  Sometimes I smuggle machinery for her.  Russian stuff.
bond		And the payoff on the tables?
zukovsky		A special job.  A...a...a submarine.
christmas		What?
zukovsky		To haul some cargo. My nephew, he is Captain of a sub in the Black Sea Fleet.
bond		Where's the sub going?!
zukovsky		No!  Get me out!
bond		This is too big for even you.  Where is it?
zukovsky		This is a family matter! If my nephew is in danger, we do it my way, or nothing! Now get me out!
zukovsky		No! Bond!
christmas		 Bond!
christmas		Commander Bond, you are dangerous, unpredictable, and a hothead.
christmas		But then again, explosive devices are my specialty.
zukovsky		So.  My way.  No MI-6, no Interpol.  Just you, me and my people.
bond		Where?
zukovsky		Istanbul.
renard		So beautiful. So smooth, so warm.
elektra		How would you know?
renard		Why are you like this?  Because Bond is dead?  It's what you wanted.
elektra		 Of course...
renard		He was a...good lover?
elektra		What do you think?
renard		Nothing.
elektra		What about this?
renard		Nothing.
elektra		But surely...
elektra		...You can feel this?
elektra		 Remember ... pleasure?
zukovsky		Any luck reaching Yevgeny?
operator		Negative, comrade.
christmas		 What is this place?
zukovsky		Former KGB surveillance post. The Dye Factory was just a front; now it turns a good profit.
bond		Your old friend Dmitri.
zukovsky		Today, you are glad to have the Boa  on your side.
zukovsky		In the good old days, the KGB had three or four spots where our submarines could surface without anyone knowing. But Yevgeny is supposed to be loading cargo.
christmas		What class sub does your nephew run?
zukovsky		C-class.
bond		Nuclear.
christmas		Not just nuclear. Powered by a nuclear reactor.  He's not loading any cargo. They want the sub. The sub itself. Put weapons grade plutonium inside the sub's reactor: Instant, catastrophic meltdown.
bond		Made to look just like an accident.
zukovsky		Mother of God.
bond		The right kind of explosion in the right spot -- it would block the Bosphorus, cut off the Black Sea.
christmas		But why? Eight million people would die, the land irradiated for a hundred years. A cloud of radiation the size of Europe...
bond		 Because an explosion like that would kill all the other pipelines. There would be only one way to get the oil out of the Caspian and pump it to the world...
christmas		The King pipeline.
bond		Elektra would control it all.
zukovsky		If what you say it true...it may be too late for Yevgeny.
renard		Captain...
yevgeny		Sir. We are ready to load your cargo. We only have a few hours before we'll be missed.
renard		You came with a skeleton crew?
yevgeny		That's all we can afford these days.
renard		Of course. We are grateful for your efforts.
renard		We have brandy and other refreshments for your men.
zukovsky		If we're not in time and something has happened to him... you must let me kill them.
bond		Whoever gets there first, Zukovsky.  They have M.
renard		Take them up and throw them in the sea.
renard		We'll be underway in two hours.  Use that time to re-familiarize yourselves with your stations. Then ponder how rich you'll be.  The re-breathers for the escape are already on board.
elektra		Now you know how it feels.  To be locked away, to wonder if they're coming for you, if anyone will ever come for you.
elektra		Who?  Bond?  Bond is dead.
elektra		Somehow, I find that strangely ...disappointing.
elektra		Time for you to die.
renard		The reactor is secured.
renard		This is the end.
elektra		No.  It is the beginning. The world will never be the same.
renard		It will be yours, and yours alone. Have fun with it.
operator		Comrade, it's faint, but I'm getting something. A signal. Transmitting at...37- 19 degrees north...
bond		The locator card. It's M.
bond		The rest?
christmas		Forty, forty-three degrees East...
zukovsky		The Maiden's Tower.
bond		How appropriate.
zukovsky		I'd heard there were some renovations there...no one would look for a sub in that place in a million years.
christmas		Zukovsky...
bond		If I don't get to the Boa before he gets to Maiden's Tower, M is dead.
boa		For years I was told I could never take the great James Bond and his Walther PPK. What good is your gun now, Bond?
gabor		Welcome aboard, Mr. Bond.
elektra		James Bond and his amazing resurrection. If only you'd kept away, we might have met again in a few years, become lovers once more.
elektra		 Take her to Renard.
elektra		Pretty thing.  You had her too?
elektra		I could have given you the world.
bond		Not interested.
elektra		They were digging near here and they found some very pretty vases.  They also found this...  I think we ignore the old ways at our peril, don't you?
bond		 Where's M?
elektra		Soon she'll be everywhere.
bond		All this, because you fell for Renard?
elektra		Five more turns and your neck will break.
elektra		Since I was a child, I've always had a power over men. When I realized my father wouldn't rescue me from the kidnappers, I knew I had to form a new alliance.
bond		 You turned Renard.
elektra		 Just like you...only you were even easier.
elektra		I told him he had to hurt me, he had to make it look real. When he refused I told him I would do it myself.
bond		So you killed your father.
elektra		He killed me! He killed me the day he refused to pay my ransom.
bond		Was this all about the oil?
elektra		It is my oil!  Mine and my family's!
elektra		It runs in my veins, thicker than blood. I'm going to redraw the map. And when I am through the whole world will know my name, my grandfather's name, the glory of my people.
bond		No-one will believe this melt-down was an accident.
elektra		They will believe.  They will all believe.
elektra		You understand? Nobody can resist me.
elektra		Know what happens when a man is strangled?
bond		Elektra, it's not too late.  Eight million people needn't die.
elektra		You should have killed me when you had the chance.  But you couldn't. Not me.  A woman you've loved.
bond		You meant ... nothing ... to me.
bond		One... last... screw?
elektra		 Oh James.
zukovsky		I'm looking for a submarine.  It's big and black, and the driver is a friend of mine.
zukovsky		Bring it to me.
elektra		What a shame.  You just missed him.
elektra		Excuse me.
elektra		Everything's under control up here.  Are you ready?
renard		 Yes.  Au revoir...
elektra		Zukovsky really hated you.  Time to say goodnight.
elektra		James.  You can't kill me.  Not in cold blood.
bond		Call him off.
bond		I won't ask again.  Call him off!
elektra		 Renard.
elektra		 You wouldn't kill me.  You'd miss me.
elektra		 Dive!  Bond --
bond		I never miss.
bond		How do you want to die?  Or this?
christmas		 James!...
christmas		Is there another way?
bond		We go down to the torpedo bay.
renard		Open the tanks.
bond		 Tanks open.
renard		 Bond...
renard		 Bond! You have decided to join me on this historic voyage.  Welcome to my nuclear family.
bond		You're really going to commit suicide for her?
renard		In case you've forgotten.  I'm dead already.
bond		Haven't you heard the news?  So is she.
renard		You will die for this.
christmas		The cover is off the reactor.
bond		He's sealed himself in.
christmas		He's going to insert the plutonium.
christmas		Do you know what you're doing?
bond		Like riding a bike.
christmas		What kind of bikes did you ride?
bond		Just wanted to put him on edge...
renard		Open the torpedo tubes.
bond		Climb!
bond		Keep moving.
bond		There's one chance.
bond		Re-breathers.
bond		Never liked those things anyway.
bond		Count to twenty.  When you get to twenty open the hatch.  It can only be opened for a few seconds or we'll sink.
christmas		But what if...
bond		Count to twenty.  I'll be there.
christmas		One, one thousand, two, one thousand...
christmas		Fourteen, one thousand, fifteen, one thousand...
christmas		Twenty.
bond		Christmas!
christmas		We have to get the rod out of the reactor!
christmas		Melting down.  4000 degrees, the Zirconium casings on the rods crack. 5000, the plutonium melts.  In ten minutes, a hydrogen explosion.
bond		She's waiting for you.
bond		We're sinking.
christmas		Help me.  We have to seal it.
bond		We've got to get out.
christmas		We can't.
tanner		Still no contact yet.
bond		I love Christmas in Turkey.
christmas		So isn't it time you unwrapped your present?
tanner		That's strange.
tanner		He must be nearby.
christmas		You know James...  I think Christmas is coming early this year.
****Dialogues from script :Wrestler.txt****

scott brumberg		Great show, Ram. Ya turned it out.  As always.
randy		 Oh, my... look out!
randy		C'mon, Len. Don't be such a fuckin' ballbreaker.
randy		You know I'm good for it.
randy		Can I at least park in back?
randy		Thanks, Meg.
randy		Hey, Wayne.
wayne		Do we not know how to knock?
randy		Do you have any extra shifts you could throw my way?
wayne		What's the matter, they raise the price of tights?
randy		Pretty much anything weekday...
gregg		I'm tellin' ya, bro, it's identical to the German.
randy		I tried Mexican sus once. Gave me bitch tits.
gregg		Years ago, right? Mexican's way better now.
randy		I don't want this.
gregg		Bro, it's the same.
randy		I want my German.
gregg		I don't have any.
randy		Yeah?
gregg		What are you doing?
randy		Danke schoen.
spotter		Push it out----you got this!
randy		How ya doin', Glor?
randy		Don't leave it in too long. All those pieces broke off last time.
korean lady		Okay, okay, no problem.
nick volpe		Listen up, only saying it once. Vic Storm, you're up first against D- Day. Second, Shawn McPride and Funkmaster Garry B. Slick. Third, Frankie Cirillo and Rob Dynamo versus J.T. Anvil and The Ultimate Freak. Fourth, Teddy Brewski and Lex Lethal. Intermission. Fifth, Samoan Savages versus the Disco Brothers. Sixth, the Irish Warrior and Vyper. Seventh, "Sandman" Steve Sambuca versus Hollywood. Last but not least, for the strap, Kid Loco versus Randy The Ram. Got it? Good.
randy		Right there, you post me. Hard. I show color.
randy		Who?
lex lethal		 Some chick.
randy		Ring rat?
lex lethal		I don't think so.
randy		What's up, kiddo?
stephanie		Is there someplace we can talk?
randy		I'm on in a sec.
stephanie		It won't take much of your time.
randy		What's up?
stephanie		I'm here because...
randy		Amends?
stephanie		I'm supposed to talk to people I've hurt.
randy		Ohh... 12-stepper.
stephanie		 AA.
randy		Good for you. That's great.
stephanie		Thank you. I'm sure you mean that.
randy		I do.
stephanie		I need to apologize.
randy		For what?
stephanie		For anything I've done or said over the years. All the anger at you.
randy		Okay...
stephanie		Like the last time I saw you... I'm sorry for what I said.
randy		 Don't worry about it.
stephanie		Do you even know what I said?
randy		Sure.
stephanie		What did I say?
randy		It was about your mom. And me.  Like, how I was bad.
stephanie		You have no idea.
randy		 Tonight's forecast calls for severe butt-whoopin's with a 100 percent chance of pain.
randy		No problemo.
stephanie		No problemo.
randy		You know it, broski!
stephanie		Same shit.
randy		They're fans.
stephanie		Same old shit.
randy		I hafta. It's work.
stephanie		I'm in the middle of saying something important and you drop it for the fucking wrestling.
randy		I didn't ask them to come over.
stephanie		It's like I'm 10 all over again.
randy		Are we almost done with this?
stephanie		This what?
randy		This ATTACK.
stephanie		Yeah. We're done.
kid loco		Look at this loser! How pathetic.
randy		 Let's go home.
trio		Ram Jam! Ram Jam! Ram Jam!...
medic		Ram, man, you popped that crowd.
randy		For you, needledick? Always.
nick volpe		Do you realize what's coming up?
randy		 Holy shit...
nick volpe		I know. Time fuckin' flies.
randy		Whatcha thinkin'?
nick volpe		Two words: Re. Match.
randy		Yeah?
nick volpe		Ram-Ayatollah II. 20th anniversary. Hundreds, thousands of screaming fans watching you two make history for the second time.
randy		Think Bob'd get back in there? He's pretty retired.
nick volpe		For this?  I bet he'd be willing to dust off the old turban.
big chris		Whassup, Ram? How ya been?
randy		Yo, Big Chris.
big chris		 Hey, can you get me any more of that IGF-1?
randy		What do I look like, some fuckin' two-bit street dealer?
big chris		C'mon, hook a brother up. You get the family discount.
randy		Swing by the mansion. Any day this week.
big chris		You da man, Ram!
randy		Thanks, hon.
bartender		I think she's VIP-in'.
cassidy		Sorry, guys, she's on break.
bachelor		You're, like, my mom's age.
cassidy		There's nothing like experience.  I've done things your little fiancee's never dreamed of...
randy		 Apologize to this lady.
randy		You speak to her with respect.
cassidy		I got this. It's okay.
randy		No, it's not okay. This is definitely not okay.
cassidy		Thanks a lot. That was 200 bucks just walked out.
randy		I was just trying to help.
cassidy		Did I ask for help?  Did I need help?
randy		You're right. I'm sorry.  I'm sorry.
cassidy		That's okay.
randy		We're talking one of the historic matches in history. 20,000 people. Another million and a half watching at home on pay-per-view.
cassidy		Million and a half? Shit.
randy		Yeah, it was big. So a rematch...  History all over again.
cassidy		You never know who's in that crowd.
randy		Got cut tonight.
cassidy		You okay?
randy		Ah, it's nothing.
cassidy		 And they say wrestling's fake.
randy		How's this for fake?
cassidy		What's that from?
randy		1986. Denver Coliseum. Billy Bob Banjo hit me with his two-by-four. Loose nail tore the bicep open.
cassidy		Ow. Fuck.
randy		I got even better.
cassidy		Doesn't it hurt?
randy		 Not when they're going crazy for you...
cassidy		"He was pierced for our transgressions, He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon Him, and by His wounds we were healed."
randy		What's that?
cassidy		It's from "Passion of the Christ".  You never seen it?
randy		Huh. I'll have to check it out.
cassidy		The sacrificial Ram...
randy		What do I owe?
cassidy		Just gimme for three.
lex lethal		Thanks for the lift, bro.
randy		No prob. You're right on the way.
lex lethal		Nice. Two, two-fifty...  You been there. The Ricky Whipsaw memorial benefit.
randy		 That place?
lex lethal		Should get a good gate. DiFusco says he's gotten like 20 calls last two days alone.
randy		God bless hardcore...
randy		Whatcha think?
lex lethal		Cookie trays were better.
randy		Let's see if they got extension cords.
announcer		Ladies and gentlemen...
announcer		And his opponent: From Hampton, Virginia, weighing in at 295 pounds...
hellbilly cannibal		Is there a doctor?
jerry difusco		Randy. You okay?
lex lethal		Put him down.
jerry difusco		Get back, get back, get back.
lex lethal		You're okay, buddy. Hang on.
lex lethal		Stay with us, bro. Help's coming.
randy		Call me Randy.
randy		Great. So I'm all good.
randy		Like...
randy		I could handle that.
randy		 I don't do coke.
randy		 Maybe once in a while.
randy		So, like, wrestling...
randy		What if I do it moderate? I could hold back on certain moves. There's always ways to fake----
randy		 Randy.
randy		With all due respect, Dr...  ...Trachanani, I'd like a second opinion on that.
randy		I want a second opinion.
randy		I want a second opinion.  I WANT A SECOND OPINION.
randy		Yeah.
pharmacist		Robin Ramovic?
randy		Yeah.
randy		Yo, Adam!
adam		What's that square?
randy		What square?
adam		That you're hitting me with.
randy		It's a folding chair.
adam		That's a chair?
randy		 Yes, it's a chair.
adam		This is old.
randy		1988 ain't old.
adam		That was, like, 50 years before I was born.
randy		Shut up and fight.
adam		Coming!
randy		Ready?
randy		One more?
adam		I gotta go.
randy		Don't you wanna get even? I whipped your butt.
adam		That's okay.
cassidy		Hey, sweetie. You're back soon.
randy		Ah, I was just in the neighborhood.
cassidy		I'm working.
randy		How `bout later, then?
cassidy		You okay?
randy		Can we talk for a sec?
cassidy		Sure. What's up?
randy		Someplace more quiet.
cassidy		Randy, I can't leave with a customer.
randy		I had a heart attack.
cassidy		Shit. When?
randy		I needed to talk to somebody.
cassidy		You can't talk here?
randy		Just a couple minutes.
cassidy		Randy, I don't do that.
randy		Please.
cassidy		Where are you parked?
randy		In back.
cassidy		Go to your car. I'll meet you out there in 15 minutes.
randy		Thanks. I appreciate it.
cassidy		That's okay.
randy		Last week.
cassidy		You okay?
randy		Yeah, yeah. Feelin' much better.
cassidy		Good, good. What happened?
randy		It was while I was wrestling. I collapsed in the ring.
cassidy		Oh, man. That's terrible.
randy		Yeah, it was pretty fucked up.
cassidy		That's funny.
randy		Doctor says I can't wrestle no more.
cassidy		Damn. What are you gonna do?
randy		I don't know. I don't know what to do. If I can't wrestle...
cassidy		It just happened. You don't have to figure everything out this second. Give yourself some time.
randy		Time's all I got. I just sit there all day...
cassidy		You really shouldn't be alone right now.
randy		That's why I came to see you.
cassidy		 Randy...
randy		We don't really get along too good.
cassidy		It doesn't matter. You need her.
randy		 She don't need me.
cassidy		Everybody needs a father. Trust me.
randy		I'm Randy The Ram. I've taken bigger bumps than this.
cassidy		I'm sure.
randy		Maybe I'll give my daughter a call.
cassidy		You should.
randy		Why the fuck not? I'm her father. A person only gets one father in this life.
cassidy		Exactly.
randy		Unless you're adopted.
cassidy		You're gonna be just fine.
randy		Definitely.
stephanie's voice		This is Stephanie, you know what to do. 
randy		 Hey... Is Stephanie home?
the woman		Who can I say it is?
randy		Her father.
stephanie		What do you want?
randy		Can we talk?
stephanie		Now's really not a good time.
randy		Wait!  Where ya going?
stephanie		Middlesex County Community.
randy		Middlesex? That's kind of a hike. Where's your car?  You taking the bus? Lemme give you a lift.
stephanie		That's okay.
randy		It's no problem.  Really. I'm parked right by.
stephanie		Left at the second stop sign.
randy		Yes, ma'am!
stephanie		You gonna talk?
randy		There's something I wanted to tell you.
stephanie		Okay...
randy		I had a heart attack.  Last week.
stephanie		You are such an asshole.
randy		 Why?
stephanie		Now you wanna fix things. Now that suddenly you're all scared and alone from your heart attack.
randy		What? No. It's not like----
stephanie		This is so fuckin' you. You only come around when you need something from somebody, when they can do something for you. Selfish fuck. Good. Be alone.
randy		What are you doing?
randy		Why not?
scott brumberg		Heard you collapsed at the DiFusco show. Sounded pretty scary.
randy		Sold the shit outta that one.
scott brumberg		No way!
randy		I gotta give credit. DiFusco came up with the idea. We're setting up an angle for a grudge match.
scott brumberg		Wow... Dude, you are good.
randy		What minivan?
scott brumberg		The one I rented for Fanfest.
randy		Looks great.
scott brumberg		Should get a pretty good crowd today.
randy		I'll start loosening up.
fan		Thanks.
randy		You got it, broski.
cassidy		Would you like a lapdance, sweetie?
customer		That's okay.
cassidy		Would you like a lapdance?
cassidy		Hey. How ya feeling?
randy		Better. Good.
cassidy		How'd it go with your daughter?
randy		 Good. Fine.
cassidy		Yeah?
randy		Not too good, actually. She tore me a new asshole.
cassidy		Shit. That sucks.
randy		I was thinking about maybe getting her a present.
cassidy		That's a great idea!  What's she into?
randy		I'm not sure.
cassidy		How old is she?
randy		22, 23? 
cassidy		What kind of music does she like?
randy		I don't know.
cassidy		Is she into books? Cooking?
randy		I'm a shitty fuckin' father.
cassidy		She's 22? Okay...  You should get her some clothes, some kinda clothes... All girls like that.
randy		That could work.
cassidy		I know the perfect place. This kick- ass little vintage shop in Westfield.
randy		Yeah?
cassidy		Saturday's the best time to go. That's when they get the new stuff in, all these boxes full of great shit.
randy		Okay. Cool.
cassidy		I'll write it down.
randy		Good tip. Thanks.
cassidy		You got it.
randy		I'm gonna grab a drink at the bar.
cassidy		Listen...
randy		Yeah?
cassidy		 I'm actually gonna be running around right in that area anyway, so it's not really a pain.
randy		All right. Thanks.
cassidy		No problem. You got it.
randy		Hey, Wayne. Got a sec?
wayne		Not really. What?
randy		I was wondering if you had something more steady. Full-time.
wayne		Only thing I got right now's got weekends.
randy		That works.
wayne		Isn't that when you sit on other dudes' faces?
randy		What is it?
wayne		Deli counter.
randy		So, like, working with customers?
wayne		All day long, hot horny housewives begging for your meat.  And prepared salads.
randy		That's the only thing you got?
wayne		At the moment. You interested?
randy		Hey.
cassidy		"Clean"?
randy		Like classy.
cassidy		Gee, thanks.
randy		Nah, nah, I don't mean that bad. I like it.  It's like in "Grease", where she turns into the hot rock `n' roll chick at the end. Except backwards.
cassidy		Oh-kaay...
randy		So, uh... Should I call you Cassidy or Pam?
cassidy		Pam.  But don't get used to it.
randy		This is awesome...  We are gonna find something great!
cassidy		Do you know her size?
randy		She's kinda skinny, a little shorter than you.
cassidy		Could you see her in this?
randy		Maybe.  I'm not sure.
cassidy		What about this?
randy		Not really...
cassidy		Yeah?
randy		Thank you very much.
cassidy		You're welcome.
randy		I think she might be a lesbian.
randy		Ah, maybe she's just a friend.
cassidy		 This?
randy		It's perfect.
cassidy		I agree.
randy		Thanks again.
cassidy		You found it.
randy		I never woulda known about this place.
cassidy		Okay, I'll give you that.
randy		Man, I worked up a pretty good thirst in there. What say we grab a beer?
cassidy		I gotta get going.
randy		One beer! We gotta re-hydrate!
cassidy		I really can't.  I got a kid at home.
randy		You have a kid?
cassidy		Boy. Daniel.
randy		How old?
cassidy		Nine.
randy		Wow... I had no friggin' idea.
cassidy		It's not something I usually tell customers. Not exactly a turn-on.
randy		Wait.
cassidy		That's very nice of you. Thank you.
randy		Tell him to take good care of that. $300 bucks on eBay.
cassidy		Really?
randy		Nah.
cassidy		One beer.
randy		He's a good-lookin' kid.
cassidy		I think so.
randy		I see where he gets it from.
cassidy		He sure doesn't get it from his douchebag father.
randy		What's that?
cassidy		Just this condo thing, down by Trenton.
randy		You moving there?
cassidy		Working on it.  It's a great area. Way cheaper. And the schools are awesome.
randy		What about Cheetah's?
cassidy		I'm done. I'm quitting.
randy		 Okay...
cassidy		Where?
randy		Right here.
cassidy		This isn't a dance place.
randy		Who cares? Fuckin' Def Lep!
cassidy		 I've danced to this plenty.
randy		Fine. Then I'm dancing for you.
cassidy		Is this a lapdance I'm getting?
randy		Just sit back and enjoy.
cassidy		I think we can get you a shift.
randy		Take a bottle, shake it up/ Break the bubble, break it u-up...  Pour some sugar on me! In the name of love!
randy		They don't make `em like they used to.
cassidy		Fuckin' eighties, man. Best shit ever.
randy		Def Lep, Gunners...
cassidy		The Cre...
randy		Then that Cobain pussy had to come around and ruin it all.
cassidy		Like there's something wrong with having a good time.
randy		Fuckin' mopey douchebag.  "Ooh, look at me! I wear flannel! I'm all depressed!"
cassidy		"I'm from Seattle! I like rain!"
randy		Nineties fuckin' sucked.
cassidy		No shit...
randy		You're right. My bad.
cassidy		Shit.
randy		What's up?
cassidy		 I totally didn't realize the time.
randy		We just got here.
cassidy		I should get home.
randy		C'mon. You said one beer!
cassidy		Good night.
randy		I thought it was gonna say Randy.
randy		Do I really even need to wear one?
wayne		 Are you gonna be interacting with our valued Shop-Rite customers?
randy		Yeah, but I----
wayne		Then yes.
randy		Could they maybe re-do it?
wayne		Just wear the fucking thing.
randy		Seventeen.
woman		The Hudson Acres, are they all on sale or just the regular?
randy		 Hang on, let me...
woman		Which in your opinion is the best smoked ham?
randy		I guess it depends what you like.
woman		I tried the Apple Valley Farms once, and it was very salty. Do you find that?
randy		Forty-six.
workout woman		Could I get a half-pound of the pesto pasta salad?
randy		Sure.
young woman		Nope. That's it.
randy		You have yourself a nice day.
young woman		 I will. You, too.
housewife		What's my prize?
randy		Anything in the case, sweetheart.
housewife		A pound of chopped liver and a half a pound of egg salad.
randy		I think that can be arranged...
stephanie		What are you, stalking me?
randy		Do stalkers bring presents?
stephanie		Sometimes.
randy		Well, I ain't a stalker. But...
stephanie		Oh. Okay.
randy		I got it just for you.
stephanie		I see that. What's it for?
randy		No reason. Just because. Do you like it?
stephanie		I do. It's... shiny.
randy		I was looking in this store and saw it, and I just said, "That is it."
stephanie		What am I doing?
randy		Got any time? I was thinking we could swing by our old favorite spot.
stephanie		We have an old favorite spot?
randy		You'll remember when you see. Whaddaya say?
stephanie		Now's not the best time. I've got some things to do.
randy		What kinda things?
stephanie		Stuff.
randy		You ain't got stuff!  C'mon, give an old man a break.
randy		You really don't remember?
stephanie		No.
randy		Guess you were pretty young.
stephanie		 Always was a glutton for punishment.
randy		You'd hop on my foot and wrap your arms around my leg. I'd have to walk you the whole way through like that.
stephanie		I totally don't remember.
randy		 I do.
randy		I accept your apology.
stephanie		Thank you.
randy		I was young. My career was booming. All those lights, the fans, the crazy shit on the road... I wasn't thinking about my kid. Or my wife.
randy		Hope that wasn't too painful.
stephanie		It was okay.
randy		Well...
stephanie		Bye.
randy		So... How about dinner sometime?
stephanie		Dinner?
randy		Maybe Tuesday?
stephanie		I'm sorry. I don't think so.
randy		 Or not. That's cool, whatever...
stephanie		Wednesday would work better.
randy		Yo, Miggy. Ram. How ya doin'?  I'm retiring.
randy		Hey, how ya doin', Frank?  Good, good. Listen...
randy		Sorry, Volp. You know I'd kill to do it.  Positive. It's time to move on.
randy		Open it.
cassidy		I'll do it later when it's quiet.
randy		I wanna watch.
cassidy		That's very sweet. Thank you.
randy		Thank you. I couldn't've done it without you.
cassidy		I'm glad I could help.
randy		It was fun, right? We had a good time.
cassidy		On 46?
randy		They got this kick-ass cover band Tuesday nights. Play anything you can think of. What do you say we----
cassidy		Randy.
randy		What?
cassidy		I can't do this.
randy		Do what?
cassidy		 This.
randy		I thought we had a little something going here.
cassidy		I think you're awesome. You're a great guy.
randy		But...
cassidy		You think I'm, like, this stripper, but I'm not. I'm a mom, with responsibilities. I don't think you wanna get with that.
randy		What if I do?
cassidy		I can't go there.
randy		What about the other day?
cassidy		That was a mistake.
randy		Why? How?
cassidy		The club and the real world, they can't mix.
randy		What if we'd met someplace else?
cassidy		We didn't.
randy		But what if we did?
cassidy		We didn't.
randy		What if we did?
cassidy		We didn't.
randy		You say I don't know you, but you won't let me get to know you.
cassidy		You're a customer. You're just a fucking customer. That's it. Okay? Got it?
randy		Yeah.  I got it.
cassidy		What's that for?
randy		A lapdance.
cassidy		Stop it.
randy		What's the matter?  So fake it. I'm just a stupid customer.
cassidy		Stop.
randy		It doesn't mean anything.
cassidy		Fuck off.
randy		Pretend you like him.
cassidy		Fuck off.
randy		I want a lapdance.
randy		Can I help who's next?
old lady		Pound of German potato salad, please.
randy		Have a nice day.
customer		Yeah, could I get a...
randy		I don't think so.
customer		You look so damn familiar.  You Teamsters?
randy		Sorry, man. What can I getcha?
customer		Half pound of Virginia ham and a half pound of the Jarlsberg.
randy		Nah.
randy		Huh?
customer		The old wrestler. From the '80s.
randy		 What's that?
randy		Get in the ring! Get in the ring! Get in the ring! Get in the ring!
scott brumberg		Ram!
randy		Yo, Brummy.
scott brumberg		How's tricks? Good to see ya, man.
randy		Yeah, good, good.
scott brumberg		So what brings ya by?
randy		Well... I was thinking about maybe doing a reffing gig.
scott brumberg		I thought you're retired.
randy		No wrestling, just reffing. Thought it might be fun. Shits `n' giggles.
scott brumberg		See what we got...
randy		`Sup, bro?
randy		I really ain't lookin' to mix it up tonight.
randy		That's okay. You guys do your thing.
randy		One!... Two!...
shawn mcpride		Crowd was pissed.
shawn mcpride		Y'all feel like grabbing a drink?
randy		By the time Ruckus fixes the tire, we've had so many Nyquil coladas we don't even realize we missed the damn gig!
shawn mcpride		Shit pit?
randy		You never heard that one?
alyssa		I know who you are.
randy		Dude's got taste.
alyssa		A.J. My old coke dealer.
randy		Me neither.
alyssa		Oh, Gawddd...
roommate		Alyssa's in the shower.
randy		Hey.
the friend		You don't have to go out there. You don't owe him shit.
stephanie		I know that.
the friend		Then why would you even----  Who said you could come in?
stephanie		Please leave my house.
randy		I'm so, so sorry. I completely, TOTALLY----
the friend		Get the fuck out of here!
stephanie		 I can handle this.
the friend		Obviously not.
stephanie		 I can handle this, Jen.
randy		I feel horrible.
stephanie		I waited in that restaurant two hours. Two fucking hours. Just in case you showed up late. "Maybe he got stuck in traffic. Maybe I got the time wrong"...  Nope.
randy		I know I fucked up. I fucked up bad.
stephanie		You didn't fuck up. You are a fuck- up. A walking, living, breathing fuck-up.
randy		I'm trying to change. Really. I can't stand when I----
stephanie		Just please shut the fuck up. Because I can't even stand the sound of your voice. 
randy		Jesus! Stop!
stephanie		Get off me!
randy		Calm down!
stephanie		GET THE FUCK OFF ME!
randy		Calm down!
stephanie		 I HATE YOU!
randy		You don't mean that!
stephanie		FUCKING HATE YOU!
randy		YOU DON'T MEAN IT!
stephanie		I don't mean it?
randy		I can change.
stephanie		I don't care.
randy		I know I can.
stephanie		Doesn't matter. I don't care. I'm done.  No more fixing it. It's broke. Permanently. I'm cool with it. It's better that way.
stephanie		You can come home.  He's gone.
wayne		Let's pick it up. Rush hour.
randy		 Let's get it onnn!
wayne		Somebody call the cops!
randy		Nick. Randy The Ram...  I don't give a shit. I just wanna wrestle.
cassidy		Hi.
randy		How'd you find me?
cassidy		Big Chris. Cheetah's bouncer.
cassidy		There's a place I'm trying to get to in my life. For me and my son.
randy		 Good for you. Quitting's hard.
cassidy		Where are you going?
randy		Got a match.
cassidy		In bed by 11. Don't let him bargain.
cassidy		Bye, monkey...
cassidy		 Pam.
stephanie's voice		This is Stephanie, you know what to do. 
randy		It's me. I promise I won't call you ever again.  That's all.
cassidy		There's waffles in the freezer and some burritos if he wants for lunch. He knows where.  I'm not sure what time I'll be headed back yet. I'll keep you posted as I go.
the ayatollah		That makes two in Columbus, one in Dayton. Next 12 months, I'd say Cincy's not out of the question.
other wrestler		 Wow...
the ayatollah		Ram-A-Lam.
randy		 Yo, Carl.
the ayatollah		Good to see ya, bro. Didn't think we were gonna do this.
randy		Yeah, well, I'm here.
the ayatollah		Thursday night, I get a call, "It's on! He's back in!" I'm like "What?"
randy		When you get settled in, we should go over things.
the ayatollah		What things?
randy		Y'know, the spots.
the ayatollah		Ah, we can just wing it.
randy		You don't wanna hash it out?
the ayatollah		It'll be fine.
randy		We should have at least a basic plan.
the ayatollah		How's this: I'm the heel, you're the face. Done.
cassidy		Excuse me.
randy		Ready to do this?
the ayatollah		Believe so.
cassidy		Excuse me.
randy		What are you doing here?
cassidy		Don't do this. This is dumb.
randy		This ain't the best time to talk.
cassidy		I thought the doctor...
randy		They always say that. Whatever you got.
cassidy		You could really hurt yourself.
randy		I know what I'm doing in there.  Out here's where I get hurt.
cassidy		Out here's what counts. The real world.
randy		Fuck the real world. Nobody gives a shit about me in the real world.
cassidy		I quit my job, drove 14 hours through the night to get here. What do you call that?
randy		 Listen to them! This is where I'm great. This is where I belong.
randy		I gotta go.
cassidy		Randy. Please.
randy		I'll see you after the show.
cassidy		 No.
randy		Enjoy the show.
randy		I just got one thing to say to you people...
the ayatollah		Jesus. Relax.
referee		One!... Two!...
randy		Anytime you wanna join in.
the ayatollah		That better?
randy		Much.
the ayatollah		Forgot how much fun this is.
referee		One!... Two!...
the ayatollah		Pathetic.  Pitiful godless infidel!
cassidy		Randy!
the ayatollah		 Wanna take it home?
cassidy		Stop it! Stop it, Randy!
randy		It's time.
the ayatollah		All you, bro. Lead the way.
the ayatollah		If you ain't up to it...
randy		Let's do this.
the ayatollah		Y'okay?
****Dialogues from script :X-Files__Fight_the_Future.txt****

chris carter		6/30/97
stevie		I got...I got....I got....  ....the wind knocked out of me.
stevie		Human skull.
stevie		No way, buttwipe. I found it. It's mine.
stevie		Anyways, there's bones all over the place down here.
fire captain		This is Captain Miles Cooles...we've got a rescue situation in progress...
bronschweig		 Keep those people back. Get them out of here.
fire captain		 I sent four men down after the boy. They're not responding.
fire captain		What about my men?
fbi agent		We've evacuated the building and been through it bottom to top. No trace of an explosive device or anything resembling one.
fbi agent		Yes, sir.
scully		Mulder -- it's me --
scully		I'm on the roof.
scully		 No. I haven't.
scully		I've just climbed twelve floors. I'm hot and thirsty and I'm wondering, to be honest, what I'm doing here.
scully		I know that. But the threat was called in for the Federal Building across the street.
scully		 Mulder... when a terrorist bomb threat is called in, the logical purpose of providing this information is to allow us to find the bomb. The rational object of terrorism is to promote terror. If you'd study model behavioral pattern in virtually every case where a threat has turned up an explosive device. If we don't act in accordance with that data -- if you ignore it as we have done -- the chances are great that if here actually is a bomb we might not find it. Lives could be lost --
scully		Mulder...?
mulder		What happened to playing a hunch?
scully		Jesus, Mulder...
mulder		The element of surprise, Scully. Random acts of unpredictability. If we fail to anticipate the unforeseen or expect the unexpected in a universe of infinite possibilities, we find ourselves at the mercy of anyone or anything that cannot be programmed, categorized or easily referenced...
mulder		What are we doing up here? It's hotter than hell.
scully		I know you're bored in this assignment, but unconventional thinking is only going to get you into trouble now.
mulder		How's that?
scully		You've got to quit looking for what isn't there. They've closed the X-Files. There's procedure to be followed here. Protocol.
mulder		What do you say we call in a bomb threat for Houston. I think it's free beer night at the Astrodome.
scully		Now what?
mulder		 It's locked?
scully		So much for anticipating the unforeseen...
scully		Had you.
mulder		No you didn't.
scully		Oh yeah. Had you big time.
scully		I saw your face, Mulder. There was a moment of panic.
mulder		Panic? Have you ever seen me panic, Scully?
scully		I just did. You're buying.
mulder		Alright... what'll it be: Coke, Pepsi? A saline IV?
scully		Something sweet.
mulder		Oh, come on.
scully		Scully...
scully		 Where are you, Mulder?
scully		Is that you pounding?
mulder		Scully, get somebody to open this door.
mulder		Scully -- listen to me. It's in the coke machine. You've got about fourteen minutes to get this building evacuated.
scully		C'mon. Open the door.
scully		Mulder? Tell me this is a joke.
mulder		...thirteen fifty six...
scully		I need this building evacuated and cleared out in ten minutes! I need you to get on the phone and tell the fire department to block off the city center in one mile radius around the building --
security guard		In ten minutes.....?!
scully		DON'T THINK! JUST PICK UP THE PHONE AND MAKE IT HAPPEN!
scully		 This is Special Agent Dana Scully. I need to speak to S.A.C. Michaud. He's got the wrong building --
scully		Mulder found it in a vending machine. He's locked in with it.
mulder		Scully?
mulder		Tell me this is just soda pop in those canisters.
mulder		Somebody's got to stay with you --
scully		Can you defuse it?
mulder		You've got about four minutes to find out if you're wrong.
scully		Let's go, Mulder.
scully		What are you doing?  Mulder --
mulder		Something's wrong.
windbreakered agent		What's he doing?
mulder		Something's not right...
scully		-- Mulder! Get in the car!
scully		There's no time!
mulder		 Next time you're buying.
cassidy		...for the catastrophic destruction of public property and the loss of life due to terrorist activities...
cassidy		Many details are still unclear; some agents' reports have not been filed, or have come in sketchy, without a satisfactory accounting of the events that led to the destruction in Dallas. But we're under some pressure to give an accurate picture of what happened to the Attorney General, so she can issue a public statement.
cassidy		We now know that five people died in the explosion. Special Agent in Charge Darius Michaud who was trying to defuse the bomb that had been hidden in a vending machine. Three firemen from Dallas, and a young boy.
mulder		Excuse me -- the firemen and the boy -- they were in the building?
cassidy		Agent Mulder, since you weren't able to be on time for this hearing, I'm going to ask you to step outside so that we can get Agent Scully's version of the facts. So that she won't have to be paid the same disrespect.
mulder		We were told the building was clear.
cassidy		You'll get your turn, Agent Mulder. Please step out.
mulder		It does say there in your paperwork that we were the ones who found the bomb...
cassidy		Thank you, Agent Mulder. We'll call you in shortly.
skinner		Sit down, they're still talking to Agent Scully.
mulder		About what?
skinner		-- They're asking her for a narrative. They want to know why she was in the wrong building.
mulder		She was with me.
skinner		You don't see what's going on here, do you?  There's four hundred million dollars in damage to the city of Dallas. Lives have been lost. No suspects have been named. So the story being shaped is this could have been prevented. That the FBI didn't do its job.
mulder		And they want to blame us?
skinner		Agent Mulder -- we both know that if you and Agent Scully hadn't taken the initiative to search the adjacent building, you could have multiplied the fatalities by a hundred --
mulder		 But it's not the lives we saved. It's the lives we didn't.
skinner		 -- if it looks bad, it's bad for the FBI --
mulder		-- if they want someone to blame, they can blame me. Agent Scully doesn't deserve this.
skinner		She's in there right now saying the same thing about you.
mulder		I breached protocol. I broke contact with the S.A.C. I ignored a primary tactical rule and left him alone with the device.
skinner		Agent Scully says it was she who ordered you out of the building. That you wanted to go back.
scully		 They're asking for you, Sir.
mulder		Whatever you told them in there, you don't have to protect me.
scully		All I told them was the truth.
mulder		They're trying to divide us on this, Scully. We can't let them.
scully		They have divided us, Mulder. They're splitting us up.
mulder		 What? What are you talking about?
scully		I meet with the OPR day after tomorrow for remediation and reassignment...
mulder		Why?
scully		I think you must have an idea. They cited a history of problems relating
mulder		They were the ones that put us together.
scully		Because they wanted me to invalidate your work, your investigations into the paranormal. But I think this goes deeper than that.
mulder		This isn't about you, Scully. They're doing this to me.
scully		They're not doing this, Mulder.  I left behind a career in medicine because I thought I might make a difference at the FBI. When they recruited me they told me women made up nine percent of the bureau. I felt this was not an impediment, but an opportunity to distinguish myself. But it hasn't turned out that way. And now, if I were to be transferred to Omaha, or Wichita or some field office where I'm sure I could rise, it just doesn't hold the interest for me it once did. Not after what I've seen and done.
mulder		You're... quitting?
scully		There's really no reason left for me to stay anymore.  Maybe you should ask yourself if your heart's still in it, too.
skinner		Agent Mulder. You're up.
scully		 I'm sorry. Good luck.
barmaid		I'd say this about exceeds your minimum daily requirement.
barmaid		Gotta train for this kind of heavy lifting.
barmaid		Poopy day?
mulder		Yup.
barmaid		A woman?  Work.
barmaid		What do you do?
mulder		What do I do.  I'm a key figure in an ongoing government charade. An annoyance to my superiors. A joke among my peers. "Spooky," they call me. Spooky Mulder. Whose sister was abducted by aliens when he was a kid. Who now chases little green men with a badge and a gun, shouting to the heavens and anyone who'll listen that the fix is in. That our government's hip to the truth and a part of the conspiracy. That the sky is falling and when it hits it's gonna be the shitstorm of all time.
barmaid		I think that about does it, Spooky.
mulder		Does what?
barmaid		Why don't you go home to the old lady --
mulder		Sorry. Don't have one.
mulder		 What?
kurtzweil		Bet the Bureau's accusing you of the same thing in Dallas.
mulder		How's that?
kurtzweil		Standing around holding your yank while bombs are exploding.
mulder		Do I know you?
kurtzweil		No. I've been watching your career for a good while. Back when you were just a promising young agent -- before that.
mulder		You follow me out here for a reason?
kurtzweil		Yeah, I did.
kurtzweil		My name's Kurtzweil. Dr. Alvin Kurtzweil.
mulder		I know the name. Why?
kurtzweil		Old friend of your father's.
kurtzweil		Back at the Department of State. We were what you might call fellow travelers, but his disenchantment outlasted mine.  I never believed in the Project.
kurtzweil		Oh, come on. Don't pretend you don't know about the Project. Your father died for it. Your sister was taken because of it.
mulder		How'd you find me?
kurtzweil		Heard you come here now and again. Figured you'd be needing a little drinky tonight.
mulder		You a reporter?
kurtzweil		I'm a doctor, but I think I mentioned that. OB-GYN.
mulder		Who sent you?
kurtzweil		I came on my own. After reading about the bombing in Dallas.
mulder		Well, if you've got something to tell me, you've got as long as it takes me to hail a cab...
kurtzweil		They're going to pin Dallas on you, Agent Mulder. But there was nothing you could've done. Nothing anyone could've done to prevent that bomb from going off. Because the truth is something you'd never have guessed; never have predicted.
mulder		And what's that?
kurtzweil		S.A.C. Darius Michaud never tried or intended to defuse the bomb.
mulder		 He just let it explode.
kurtzweil		What's the question nobody's asking? Why that building? Why not the Federal Building?
mulder		The Federal Building was too well guarded.
kurtzweil		No. They put the bomb in the building across the street because it DID have federal offices. The Federal Emergency Management Agency had a provisional medical quarantine office there. Which is where the bodies were found. But that's the thing...
kurtzweil		...the thing you didn't know. That you'd never think to check.
kurtzweil		Those people were already dead.
mulder		Before the bomb went off?
kurtzweil		That's what I'm saying.
mulder		Michaud was a twenty-two year veteran of the bureau --
kurtzweil		Michaud was a patriot. The men he's loyal to know their way around Dallas. They blew that building to hide something. Maybe something even they couldn't predict.
mulder		You're saying they destroyed an entire building to hide the bodies of three firemen...?
kurtzweil		And one little boy.
mulder		I think you're full of shit.
kurtzweil		Do you?
mulder		 I wake you?
scully		No.
mulder		Why not? It's three AM.
scully		Are you drunk, Mulder?
mulder		I was until about an hour ago.
scully		Is that before or after you got the idea to come here?
mulder		What are you implying, Scully?
scully		 I thought you may have gotten drunk and decided to come here to talk me out of quitting.
mulder		Is that what you'd like me to do?
scully		Go home, Mulder. It's late.
mulder		Get dressed, Scully.
scully		Mulder -- what are you doing?
mulder		Just get dressed. I'll explain on the way.
mulder		We're going to the morgue.
mulder		On whose orders?
mulder		General McAddie is who requested our coming here. We were awakened at three AM and told to get down here immediately.
mulder		Well, call General McAddie.
mulder		They can patch you in through the switchboard.
mulder		Hey! We don't have time to dick around here watching you demonstrate your ignorance in the chain of command. The order came direct from General McAddie. Call him. We'll conduct our business while you confirm authorization.
mulder		Thank you.
mulder		Why is a morgue suddenly off limits on orders of a general?
scully		This is one of the firemen who died in Dallas?
mulder		According to this tag.
scully		And you're looking for?
scully		I can tell you that without even looking at him.  Conclusive organ failure due to proximal exposure to source and flying debris.
scully		This body has already been autopsied, Mulder. You can tell from the way it's been wrapped and dressed.
mulder		Does this fit the description you just read me, Scully?
scully		Oh my God. This man's tissue...
mulder		It's like jelly.
scully		There's some kind of cellular breakdown. It's completely edematous.
scully		And there's been no autopsy performed. There's no Y incision here; no internal exam.
mulder		You're telling me the cause of death on the report is false. That this man didn't die from an explosion, or from flying debris.
scully		I don't know what killed this man. I'm not sure if anybody else could claim to either.
scully		 You knew this man didn't die at the bomb site before we got here.
mulder		I'd been told as much.
scully		You're saying the bombing was a cover-up. Of what?
mulder		I don't know. But I have a hunch what you're going to find here isn't anything that can be categorized or easily referenced.
scully		Mulder, this is going to take some time, and somebody's going to figure out soon enough we're not even supposed to be here.  I'm in serious violation of medical ethics.
mulder		We're being blamed for these deaths. Scully, I want to know what this man died of. Don't you?
mulder		 I think this is it up here.
mulder		Is this Dr. Kurtzweil's residence?
detective		 You got some kind of business with him?
mulder		I'm looking for him.
detective		Looking for him for what?
detective		 Real nice business he's got, huh?
mulder		What's that?
detective		Selling naked pictures of little kids over his computer.
detective		You looking for him for some other reason?
mulder		Yeah, I had an appointment for a pelvic examination.
detective		You want a call if we turn up Kurtzweil?
mulder		No. Don't bother.
kurtzweil		See this bullshit...? Somebody knows I'm talking to you.
mulder		Not according to the men in blue.
kurtzweil		What is it? Kiddie porn again? Sexual battery of a patient? I've had my license taken away in three states.
mulder		They want to discredit you -- for what?
kurtzweil		For what? Because I'm a dangerous man. Because I know too much about the truth.
mulder		You mean that apocalyptic trash you write? I knew your name was familiar. I just didn't know why.
kurtzweil		You know my work?
mulder		 Dr. Kurtzweil, I'm not interested in bigoted ideas about race or genocide. I don't believe in the Elders of Zion, the Knights Templar, the Bilderburg Group or in a oneworld Jew run government --
kurtzweil		I don't either, but it sure sells books.
kurtzweil		I was right about Dallas. Wasn't I, Agent Mulder?
mulder		How?
kurtzweil		I picked up the historical document of the venality and hypocrisy of the American government. The daily newspaper.
mulder		You said the firemen and the boy were found in the temporary offices of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Why?
kurtzweil		According to the newspaper, FEMA had been called out to manage an outbreak of the Hanta virus. Are you familiar with the Hanta virus, Agent Mulder?
mulder		It was a deadly virus spread by field mice in the Southwest U.S. several years ago.
kurtzweil		And are you familiar with FEMA? What the Federal Emergency Management Agency's real power is? FEMA allows the White House to suspend constitutional government upon declaration of a national emergency. To create a non-elected government. Think about that.  What is an agency with such broad sweeping power doing managing a small viral outbreak in suburban Texas?
mulder		Are you saying it wasn't such a small outbreak?
kurtzweil		I'm saying it wasn't the Hanta virus.
mulder		What was it?
kurtzweil		When we were young men in the military, your father and I were recruited for a project. They told us it was biological warfare. A virus. There were rumors about its origins.
mulder		What killed those men?
kurtzweil		What killed them I won't even write about. I tell you, they'd do more than just harass me. They have the future to protect.
mulder		I'll know soon enough.
kurtzweil		 What killed those men can't be identified in simple medical terms. My god, we can't even wrap our minds around something as obvious as HIV. We have no context for what killed those men, or any appreciation of the scale in which it will be unleashed in the future. Of how it will be transmitted; of the environmental factors involved.
mulder		A plague?
kurtzweil		The plague to end all plagues, Agent Mulder. A silent weapon for a quiet war. The systematic release of an indiscriminate organism for which the men who will bring it on still have no cure. They've been working on this for fifty years. While the rest of the world was fighting gooks and commies these men have been secretly negotiating a planned Armageddon.
mulder		Negotiating with whom?
kurtzweil		I think you know. The timetable has been set. It will happen on a holiday, when people are away from their homes. When our elected officials are at their resorts or out of the country. The President will declare a state of emergency, at which time all federal agencies, all government will come under the power of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. FEMA, Agent Mulder. The secret government.
mulder		And they tell me I'm paranoid.
kurtzweil		Something's gone wrong -- something unanticipated. Go back to Dallas and dig. Or you're only going to find out like the rest of the country, Agent Mulder. When it's too late.
mulder		How can I reach you?
kurtzweil		You can't.
mulder		No calling Hawaii.
scully		 Yeah.
mulder		Why are you whispering?
scully		I can't really talk right now.
mulder		What did you find?
scully		Evidence of a massive infection.
mulder		What kind of infection?
scully		I don't know.
mulder		Scully -- listen to me. I'm going home, then I'm booking a flight to Dallas. I'm getting you a ticket, too.
scully		Mulder --
mulder		I need you there with me. I need your expertise on this. The bomb we found was meant to destroy those bodies and whatever they were infected by.
scully		I've got a hearing tomorrow --
mulder		-- I'll have you back for it, Scully. Maybe with evidence that could blow that meeting away.
scully		Mulder -- I can't -- I'm already way past the point of common sense here --
mulder		Scully...? Hello...?
field agent		You're looking for what amounts to a needle in a haystack. I'm afraid the explosion was so devastating there hasn't been a whole lot we've been able to put together just yet.
mulder		I'm looking for anything out of the ordinary. Maybe something from the FEMA offices where the bodies were found.
field agent		We weren't expecting to find those remains, of course. They went right off to Washington.
mulder		Was there anything in those offices that didn't go to D.C.?
field agent		Some bone fragments came up in the sift this morning. We thought there'd been another fatality, but we found out FEMA had recovered them from an archeological site out of town.
mulder		Have you examined them?
field agent		No. Just fossils, far as I know.
mulder		I'd like this person to take a look, if you don't mind.
field agent		Let me just see if I can lay my hands on what you're looking for.
mulder		You said you weren't coming?
scully		I wasn't planning on it. Particularly after spending a half hour in cold storage this morning. But I got a better look at the blood and tissue samples I took from the firemen.
mulder		What did you find?
scully		 The virus those men were infected with contains a protein coat I've never seen before. What it did to them it did extremely fast. And unlike the AIDS virus or any other aggressive strain, it survives very nicely outside the body.
mulder		How was it contracted?
scully		That I don't know. But if it's through simple contact of blood to blood, and if it doesn't respond to conventional treatments, it could be a serious health threat.
field agent		Like I said, these are fossils, and they weren't near the blast center, so they aren't going to tell you much.
scully		May I?
mulder		You said you knew the location of the archeological site where these were found.
field agent		Show you right on a map.
technician		It's what?
technician		You see it?
valet's voice		Sir -- you have a call.
valet		They're in the library.
strughold		We began to worry. Some of us have traveled so far, and you are the last to arrive.
strughold		While we've been made to wait, we've watched surveillance tapes which have raised more concerns.
strughold		We've been forced to reassess our role in Colonization by new facts of biology which have presented themselves.
group elder		 The virus has mutated.
strughold		A new extraterrestrial biological entity.
strughold		The geometry of mass infection presents certain conceptual re-evaluations for us. About our place in their Colonization.
strughold		We're going to tell them what we've found. What we've learned. Turn over a body infected with the gestating organism.
strughold		Let me remind you who is the new race. And who is the old.  What could be gained by withholding anything from them; By pretending to ignorance? Our knowledge may forestall their plans to step up the timetable. To start Colonization early.
strughold		Cooperation is our only chance of saving ourselves.
strughold		We'll continue to use them as they do us. If only to play for more time, to continue work on our vaccine.
strughold		Well, without a cure for the virus, we're nothing more than digestives anyway.
strughold		We've allowed this man his freedom. His books have actually helped us to facilitate plausible denial. Has he outlived his usefulness to us?
strughold		And Mulder?
elder		Our new situation makes us vulnerable. If he learns information as we do, he could jeopardize the Project's secrecy.
strughold		This may take another approach.
strughold		You need not kill a man to destroy him.
scully		I don't know, Mulder...
scully		He didn't mention a park.
mulder		This is where he marked on the map, Scully. Where he says those fossils were unearthed.
scully		I don't see any evidence of an archeological or any other kind of digsite. Not even a sewer or a storm drain.
mulder		You're sure the fossils you looked at showed the same signs of deterioration you saw in the fireman's body in the morgue?
scully		 The bone was porous, as if the virus of the causative microbe were digesting it.
mulder		And you've never seen anything like that?
scully		No.  It didn't show up on any of the immunohistochemical tests --
mulder		This looks like new grass to you?
scully		It looks pretty green for this climate.
mulder		Ground's dry about an inch down. Somebody just laid this down. Very recently, I'd say.
scully		 All the equipment is brand new.
mulder		No irrigation system. Somebody's covering their tracks.
mulder		Hey!
scully		Do you live around here?
mulder		You see anybody digging here?
scully		You're not supposed to talk about it? Who told you that?
mulder		Nobody. Same nobody who put this park in? That new equipment...  They buy you these bikes?
scully		I think you better tell us.
scully		Well, we're FBI agents.
mulder		How do you know?
mulder		Maybe you've been watching too much TV.
mulder		Unmarked tanker trucks... what are archaeologists hauling out in tanker trucks?
scully		I don't know, Mulder.
mulder		And where are they going with it?
scully		That's the first question to answer, if we're going to find them.
mulder		What are my choices?
scully		About a hundred miles of nothing in each direction.
mulder		Where would they be going?
scully		We've got two choices. One of them is wrong.
mulder		You think they went left?
scully		I don't know why I think they went right.
mulder		Five years together -- how many times have I been wrong.
mulder		Hey, I was right about the bomb, wasn't I?
scully		This is great. This is fitting.
mulder		What?
scully		I've got to be in Washington D.C. in eleven hours for a hearing -- the outcome of which might possibly affect one of the biggest decisions of my life. And here I am standing out in the middle of nowhere Texas, chasing phantom tanker trucks.
mulder		We're not chasing trucks, we're chasing evidence --
scully		-- of what exactly?!
mulder		That bomb in Dallas was allowed to go off, to hide something: bodies infected with a virus you detected yourself.
scully		They haul gas in tanker trucks, they haul oil in tanker trucks -- they don't haul viruses in tanker trucks.
mulder		Yeah, well they may this one.
scully		What do you mean by haul?  What are you not telling me here?
mulder		This virus -- it... 
scully		Mulder --
mulder		It may be extraterrestrial.
scully		I don't believe this. I don't fucking believe this.  Y'know, I've been here... I've been here one too many times with you, Mulder.
mulder		Been where?
scully		Pounding down some dirt road in the middle of the night. Chasing some elusive truth on a dim hope, only to find myself standing right where I am right now: at another dead end --
scully		What do you think it is?
mulder		I have no idea.
scully		This is weird, Mulder.
mulder		Very weird.
scully		Any thoughts on why anybody'd be growing corn in the middle of the desert?
mulder		Not unless those are giant Jiffy Pop containers out there.
scully		Cool in here. Temperature's being regulated.
mulder		For the purpose of what?
scully		I think we're on top of something. I think these are some kind of venting.
mulder		You hear that?
scully		I hear the humming. Like electricity. High voltage maybe.
mulder		Maybe. Maybe not.
scully		What do you think those are for?
mulder		Scully....?
scully		Yeah...?
mulder		Run.
scully		 What are you doing?
mulder		 Come on!
scully		Mulder?!
mulder		Scully?!
resume scully		 Reacting to the sound of her name, but there's no time to find her bearings on Mulder. Not before she has to take flight again. As one of the choppers appears overhead, hovering into view. Knocking the corn down in a path moving straight toward her.  CAMERA LEADING HER as she runs from the oncoming craft. PASSING CAMERA to the left, as the chopper passes CAMERA RIGHT.  CUT TO:
mulder		Scully?!
scully		 Mulder!
scully		Where'd they go?
mulder		I don't know.
skinner		She's coming in.
cassidy		Special Agent Scully --
scully		I apologize for making you wait -- I've brought some new evidence with me --
cassidy		Evidence of what?
scully		These are fossilized bone fragments I've been able to study, gathered from the bomb site in Dallas...
cassidy		You've been back to Dallas?
scully		Yes.
cassidy		Are you going to let us in on what exactly you're trying to prove --
scully		That the bombing in Dallas may have been to destroy the bodies of those firemen, so their deaths and the reason for them wouldn't have to be explained --
cassidy		 -- those are very serious allegations, Agent Scully --
scully		Yes. I know.
cassidy		And you have conclusive evidence of this? Something to tie this claim of yours to the crime --
scully		 Nothing completely conclusive --
scully		I hope to. We're working to develop this evidence --
cassidy		Working with?
scully		Agent Mulder.
kurtzweil		You found something?
mulder		Yes. On the Texas border. Some kind of experiment. Something they excavated was brought there in tanker trucks.
kurtzweil		What?
mulder		I'm not sure. A virus --
kurtzweil		-- You saw this experiment?
mulder		What did it look like?
mulder		There were bees. And corn crops.
mulder		What are they?
kurtzweil		What do you think?
mulder		A transportation system. Transgenic crops. The pollen genetically altered to carry a virus.
kurtzweil		That would be my guess.
mulder		Your guess?
mulder		What do you mean, your guess?
mulder		You told me you had answers.
kurtzweil		Yeah, well I don't have them all.
mulder		You've been using me --
kurtzweil		I've been using you?!
mulder		You didn't know my father --
kurtzweil		I told you -- he and I were old friends --
mulder		You're a liar. You lied to me to gather information for you. For your goddamn books. Didn't you?
mulder		Kurtzweil!
kurtzweil		You'd be shit out of luck if not for me. You saw what you saw because I led you to it. I'm putting my ass on the line for you.
mulder		Your ass? I just got chased across Texas by two black helicopters.
kurtzweil		And why do you think it is you're standing here talking to me? These people don't make mistakes, Agent Mulder.
mulder		What? What's wrong?
scully		Salt Lake City, Utah. Transfer effective immediately.
scully		I already gave Skinner my letter of resignation.
mulder		You can't quit, Scully.
scully		I can, Mulder. I debated whether or not to even tell you in person, because I knew --
mulder		We're close to something here -- we're on the verge --
scully		You're on the verge, Mulder -- please don't do this to me --
mulder		After what you saw last night -- after all you've seen -- you can't just walk away --
scully		I have. I did. It's done.
mulder		Just like that --
scully		I'm contacting the state board Monday to file medical reinstatement papers --
mulder		I need you on this, Scully --
scully		You don't Mulder -- you've never needed me. I've only held you back.  I've got to go.
mulder		You're wrong --
scully		Why was I assigned to you? To debunk your work. To reign you in. To shut you down.
mulder		You saved me, Scully.  I don't want to do this without you. I don't know if I can. If I quit now, they win.
scully		OUCH!!!
mulder		What? What happened?
scully		I think... something stung me.
mulder		It must...
mulder		Scully...
scully		Something's wrong...  I'm having -- lancinating pain -- my chest. My... motor functions are being affected. I'm...
scully		...my pulse feels thready and I've got a funny taste in the back of my throat.
mulder		I think you're in anaphylactic shock --
scully		No -- it's --
mulder		Scully --
scully		I've got no allergy. Something... this... Mulder... I think... I think you should call an ambulance.
mulder		This is Special Agent Fox Mulder. I have an emergency -- I have an agent down --
mulder		She said she had a taste in the back of her throat -- there was no pre-existing allergy to bee-stings -- the bee that stung her may have been carrying a virus --
byers		I think he's coming out --
langly		He's coming to.
frohike		Hey, Mulder...
frohike		Mulder...?
mulder		Oh god...
langly		What's wrong?
mulder		 Toto.
mulder		What am I doing here?
byers		You were shot in the head. The bullet broke the flesh on your right brow and glanced off your temporal plate.
mulder		 Penetration but not perforation.
langly		Three centimetres to the left and we'd be playing the harp.
byers		They gave you a craniotomy to relieve the pressure from a subdural hematoma. But you've been unconscious since they brought you in.
mulder		When was that?
frohike		Two days ago. Your guy Skinner's been here with you around the clock.
langly		We got the news and made a trip to your apartment. Found a bug in your phone line.
frohike		And one in your hall.
mulder		Scully had a violent reaction to a bee sting --
byers		You called 911. Except the call was intercepted.
mulder		 They took her --
skinner		Agent Mulder --
mulder		Where's Scully?!
skinner		She's missing. We've been unable to locate her or the vehicle they took her in.
mulder		Whoever they are -- this goes right back to Dallas -- it goes right back to the bombing --
skinner		I know.  Agent Scully reported your suspicions to OPR. On the basis of her report, I sent techs over to S.A.C. Michaud's apartment. They picked up PSTN residues on his personal effects consistent with the construction of the vending machine device in Dallas.
mulder		 How deep does this go?
skinner		I don't know.
mulder		Are we being watched?
skinner		I'm not taking any chances.
mulder		I need your clothes, Byers.
byers		Me?
skinner		What are you doing?
mulder		I've got to find Scully.
frohike		Do you know where she is?
mulder		No. But I know someone who might have an answer. Who better.
kurtzweil		Jesus Christ.
kurtzweil		What are you doing here? What do you want from me?
mulder		What happened to Kurtzweil?
mulder		Where's Scully?
mulder		Is she alive?
mulder		About the conspiracy?
mulder		I want to know where Scully is.
mulder		What is it?
mulder		 You're lying.
mulder		 A virus?
mulder		This is what you've been conspiring to conceal? A disease?
mulder		What do you mean, walked?
mulder		That's why you bombed the building. The infected firemen, the boy --
mulder		But... he sacrificed his own daughter. My sister, Samantha.
mulder		Why are you telling me this?
mulder		What happened to Kurtzweil?
mulder		Where is he?
mulder		Let me out. Stop the car.
mulder		How?
mulder		What alien environment?
mulder		What about you?
following mulder		 The ice station still several hundred yards in the distance, when MULDER SUDDENLY FALLS OUT OF FRAME, disappearing into a hole in the snowscape crust that just moments earlier had been stable footing.  HARD CUT TO:
mulder		Scully --
mulder		Breathe -- can you breathe?!
mulder		What?
scully		Cold...
mulder		Hang on. I'm going to get you out of here.
mulder		We've got to keep moving.
scully		 Where are we?
mulder		You got me. But I think I know what they did with Jimmy Hoffa.
scully		I can't...
scully		 I can't go any farther.
mulder		Yes you can. You're going to make it, Scully.
mulder		Shit --
mulder		Scully --
mulder		You're not dying on me now -- godammit godammit godammit --
scully		 Mulder...
scully		 Had you big time.
mulder		Keep breathing, Scully.
resume mulder		 Beneath her, pushing with all his might. His hands under her shoes now, forcing her up into the vent like a rolled carpet into the rafters.
resume scully		 Struggling with her arms and elbows, barely conscious, but somehow able to manage herself forward.
resume mulder		 Pushing Scully up the last little way. Then reaching up to find a handhold for himself. Grabbing hold and lifting himself as one of his feet kicks at the ice -- where the creature he was just face to face with BURSTS from its icy pod. One hand, then the other shooting out of the ice where they have broken through the host. Ripping open the front of the body, including the man's face. Making a slimy, gaping tear in what was formerly flesh.  Its hands grabbing at Mulder as he thrashes to free himself from it getting a grip.  As Mulder struggles to pull himself up, fighting off the creature which he cannot see beneath him.
resume creature		 As it emerges from the ice, still grasping and TEARING at Mulder's legs with its claws. But as it BURSTS COMPLETELY from its place, Mulder is able to pull himself up and into the vent in one athletic movement.
mulder		Scully -- you breathing?
mulder		 We've got to run!
scully		 Mulder...
cassidy		... my official report is incomplete pending these new facts I'm being asked to reconcile. Agent Scully...
cassidy		...while there is direct evidence now that a federal agent may have been involved in the bombing... the other events you've laid down here seem too incredible on their own, and quite frankly implausible in their connection.
scully		What is it you find incredible?
cassidy		Well...where would you like me to start? Antarctica is a long way from Dallas, Agent Scully. I can't very well submit a report to the Attorney General that alleges the links you've made here. Bees and corn crops do not quite fall under the rubric of domestic terrorism.
scully		No, they don't.
cassidy		Most of what I find in here is lacking a coherent picture of an organization with an attributable motive. I realize you're very lucky to be alive Agent Scully. The ordeal you've endured has clearly affected you -- though the holes in your account leave this panel with little choice but to delete these references from our final report to the Justice Department. Until which time hard evidence becomes available that would give us cause to pursue such an investigation.
scully		I don't believe the FBI currently has an investigation unit qualified to pursue the evidence in hand.
cassidy		Please ask Agent Scully to come back to this hearing. We're not quite finished.
mulder		And yours?
mulder		You're wrong.
****Dialogues from script :X-Men.txt****

freckled kid		Man, what's the matter with you?
scott		No, my eyes... my eyes are killing me.
freckled kid		You want some Visine, man?
scott		My... eyes...
scott		... they're burning...
freckled kid		Dude, how much did you smoke?
scott		I didn't smoke anything.
kelly		You're avoiding the question I posed to you at the beginning of the hearing, Ms. Grey.  Three words: Are mutants dangerous?
jean		I am avoiding a question that is decidedly loaded, Senator.  The wrong person behind the wheel of a car can be dangerous.
senator rowee		Well, we do license people to drive.
jean		But not to live.
kelly		Ms. Grey -- you work at a school for mutants in Westchester, New York.  Can you tell the members of this committee what exactly you are teaching these mutants?
jean		Math.  History.  Science.  English. Athletics --
kelly		You wouldn't happen to be teaching them how to use their powers to --
jean		Control, Senator...  we teach them control.
kelly		This was taken by a state police officer in Secaucus, New Jersey.  A man in a minor altercation literally melted the car in front of him.  I don't know where you come from, Ms. Grey, but where I come from, you don't go melting people's cars when they cut you off.  You do it the old fashioned way -- you give 'em the finger.  But what you presume to tell this committee -
jean		I presume nothing, I am here to tell you that in time, the mutator gene will activate in every living human being on this planet.  Perhaps even your children, Senator.
kelly		I can assure you, there is no such creature in my genes.
jean		Were not the ones to be afraid of.
sabretooth		Its not gonna be that easy.
pyro		Hand me the dykes.
interviewer		...and the leading voice in the call for Mutant registration is Senator Scott Frank Kelly, of Florida, who claims to support the constitutional rights of the genetically enhanced, but whose crusade to register mutants is gaining popularity.
magneto		Not this one again.
sabretooth		I lost him.
magneto		How?
sabretooth		It was Xaviers people.  They knew.
magneto		I want him.  That is all they know because that is all you know.
kelly		I think the Presidents pre-occupation with international affairs has drawn his attention away from this problem. Americans deserve the right to decide whether they want their children to be in school with mutants.  To be taught by mutants.  They also have the right to know the dangers.  Thats the purpose of registration.  And mark my words, if the President isnt strong enough to do what needs to be done...
magneto		And you may mark my words, Senator Kelly.  All your plotting, all your hatred.  I have plans for you.  Ive seen you come, and I will see you go.
sabretooth		Is that what youre looking for?
magneto		A piece.  Only a piece.
sabretooth		Is it enough?
magneto		Enough for a test.
kelly		I cant believe the President cant see it.  I wouldnt be surprised if he has a mutant on his staff.
guyrich		Have you thought of a demonstration of some kind?  Maybe use the UN Summit to our advantage.  The whole world will be watching.
kelly		Im not interested in the whole world, Henry... Im interested in America. Let the rest of the world deal with mutants their own way.
guyrich		Where to?
kelly		Home.
guyrich		Dulles Airport.
logan		Where is it?
voice		... until the Emperor Constantine converted to Christianity.  With that one act, history was changed.  The Christians who were once prosecuted and fed to the lions, became accepted.
beast		So as their leaders went, so did follow the hearts and minds of the people of the Roman empire.  Which made for some very happy Christians.
xavier		Would you like some breakfast?
logan		How do you know my name?
xavier		Youre not the only one with gifts.
logan		What am I doing here?
xavier		I brought you here so that you would be safe from Magneto.
logan		Who?
xavier		A very powerful mutant who for some reason has taken an interest in you. Im not sure why, but until we find out, I must ask you to stay.
logan		No thanks.
kelly		Where the hell are we?
guyrich		Pilot?
kelly		Dear God... Dear... God.
kelly		You... wha... Who are you... Where is Henry?
magneto		Mr. Guyrich has been dead for some time Senator.
kelly		You mutant bastards...
kelly		Whatever you do to me... no matter what youll make me right.  Every word I have spoken will be confirmed.
magneto		Gosh, I hope so.
kelly		People like you are the reason people like me exist.
mystique		And people like you are the reason I was afraid to go to school as a child.
magneto		Are you a God-fearing man, Senator?
kelly		The intention of registration act -
magneto		INTENTION?  Intention, Senator?  We are talking about mankind here.  His fear.  It is only a matter of time before mutants will be herded into camps.  Studied for weaknesses.  And eventually wiped off the face of the Earth.
kelly		What is it you intend to do to me?
magneto		 Lets just say, God works too slowly.
sabretooth		Weve found him.
magneto		Where?
kelly		Oh... Oh God... what have you done to me?
magneto		Welcome to the future... brother.
brad 1		Hey.
brad 2		 Where are you going?
brad 1		Awww... look guys shes shy.
brad 3		Maybe thats why shes alone.  Is that why youre alone?
brad 4		Ill keep you company.
brad 1		Hey, what did you do?
rogue		Dont touch me.
brad 3		Hey Brad, shes a mutant!
logan		How about you sit down and leave the kid alone, alright?
brad 1		Shes a mutant.
logan		Yeah, well, nobodys perfect.
brad 1		 I think you should take a seat little fella.
logan		Listen -- I dont want any trouble.
brad 1		Well you got trouble.
transit cop		Freeze... transit police.  Drop your weapon.
magneto		You can come out now, Logan.  Youre among friends.
transit cop		Freeze!
magneto		You Homo Sapiens and your guns.
magneto		Ill never understand your regard for them, Charles.
xavier		And Ill never understand terrorists.
magneto		I am trying to save our kind, Charles. You should do the same.
xavier		Not at the cost of lives, Max.
magneto		Magneto.
xavier		 Its alright... its alright.
magneto		The two in Alaska.  Just how do you people manage to be in the right place at the right time?  Still tinkering with Cerebro?
xavier		 What do you want with him?
magneto		Cant read my mind?
xavier		Is that so?
magneto		Still trying to make the world safe for our kind.  Still trying to find a way to introduce ourselves -- definitively.
xavier		You definition of definitive was always a bit extreme for me, Max. What is it like these days?
magneto		Lets just say that I am out to make some radical changes.  Now come on Charles.  For old times sake, for your sake...  Leave him to me.
toad		Do it again.
pyro		IM BLIND.
mystique		I have to go to the bathroom.
magneto		If I could make you understand.  If you could just be made to see it the way I do.  The way its going to be.
xavier		The way what is going to be?
magneto		Im going to change the world with or without you as a witness, Charles.  And this one gets a front row seat.
xavier		What do you mean to do?
magneto		This checkmate goes to you.  I didnt want to hurt anyone.  But you leave me no choice.
xavier		WHAT DO YOU MEAN TO DO?
logan		Look, I appreciate your concern.  But, I do better on my own.
xavier		You got less than sixty miles today. Ill make you a deal.  Two days. If we havent figured out what Magneto wants with you by then...  Ill bring you back myself.
logan		What are you going to do with her?
xavier		Rogue is a beautiful girl, with an extraordinary power.  One that even her own family isnt able to accept. Shes been on her own for weeks now, searching for a home.  A place to belong.
logan		Forty-eight hours, old man.  But if you cross me, I wont feel any guilt about what I do to you.
xavier		Deal.
kelly		What have you bastards done to me?
voice		HEY.
magneto		How are we feeling today, Senator? Advanced, I hope...
sabretooth		Ill find him.
magneto		ALIVE.
jean		Anything else I can get you?
logan		Some cigars.  Case of beer.
jean		Theres no smoking or drinking on the school grounds.
logan		I wont light the cigars - how about that?
jean		Ill see what I can do -- You should get some sleep.  Even with your healing ability, youre going to be hurting for a while.
logan		What if I like the pain?
jean		The Professor said you were a solider. Actually, I believe he used the word mercenary.
logan		Yeah?  Well I dont like to talk about my past.
jean		Maybe, the Professor could help you with that.
logan		By reading my thoughts?
jean		If necessary.
logan		 What if theyre naughty?
jean		Get some shut-eye, slick.
jean		Scott.. I -
cyclops		I dont like him being here.
jean		What are you talking about?
cyclops		You saw what happened tonight.  You think Magneto wont come after him again.  You think he wont come here if necessary.  This is a school, for Gods sake.
jean		If Magneto is planning to use Logan for some terrible purpose its our responsibility to do something.
cyclops		I have a bad feeling about this.
jean		You know I love you, Scott.
beast		Adamantium.  Until today I thought it to be a myth.  Impenetrable, unbendable, resistant to the most extreme heat, cold, indestructible.
xavier		He also has accelerated healing abilities - uncharted regenerative capability, making his age impossible to determine.  He could very well be older than I am.
storm		Is the Adamantium part of his mutation?
xavier		No.  Someone put it there, relying on his healing abilities to keep him alive.
cyclops		What do you think Magneto wants with him?
xavier		Im not entirely sure its him that Magneto wants.
storm		DONT TOUCH HER.
childs voice		Mom, is that a mutant?
logan		Why is everybody up at sunrise?
storm		The sun is setting, Logan.  Youve been asleep for nineteen hours.
logan		What did she do to me?
storm		She borrowed your power to save her life.  When she touches someone, she absorbs their strengths -- their gifts.  In your case -- your ability to heal.  Thats why she keeps her body covered.
logan		I felt like she almost killed me.
storm		If she held on any longer she could have.
logan		And you think it helps calling her Rogue?
storm		Weve learned to embrace what we are rather than hide it like an affliction.  For some, it has become their identity.  You mock the names these people choose but they wear them as badges of pride.
logan		Inspiring -- Now what am I doing here?
storm		Of course.
cyclops		Lets take a walk.
cyclops		How long have you been in Alaska?
logan		I dont remember.  Is that what you wanted to ask me?
cyclops		I just wanted to make you clear on something.  Personally, I dont care what Magneto wants with you.  He can take those claws of yours and use them for Barbecue skewers.  What I do care about is the safety of this group. The Professor is in charge, and after the Professor, theres me.  So, for the remainder of your time here, youre going to keep that killer instinct of yours locked down so no one else gets hurt.
logan		 Ive served with men like you before. Methodical.  Systematic -- Naive.  You know what happens to those men in a real fight?
cyclops		You know, you --
logan		Shut up.  I got no interest in you, Xavier,  or your... X-Men.
logan		I have a question for you, Chuck. Whats the point?
xavier		The point of what?
logan		This.  This whole God damn thing.  Making yourselves into some sort of team of super-powered freaks. Teaching wayward mutants about classical literature.  For what?
xavier		The point is to step into a more evolved position of social responsibility.  To recognize that there is a world out there and that we mutants are as much a part of it as normal human beings.
logan		What if it never happens?  What if theyre so afraid of us that we become the enemy? -- This place is gonna be one giant cemetery.
xavier		Now thats Magneto talking.
logan		No.  Thats me talking.  And you know what?  Its only been thirty-two hours and you still have no idea what this guy wants with me.
xavier		I believe he wants you for your Adamantium.
xavier		What is it?
jean		Rogues missing.
logan		Where are we going?
xavier		To find Rogue.
logan		How?
xavier		The brainwaves of mutants are quite different than those of the average human being.
logan		You designed this yourself?
xavier		Actually, Magneto helped me put it together.
logan		He helped you?
xavier		We were friends once...  But that was a long time ago.
xavier		Ive found her, Westchester Mall.
logan		Ill go.
cyclops		No...  Ill go.
logan		O.K. sport... you go.
storm		Rogue.
rogue		Im sorry.  Im not like the rest of you -- Im tired of hurting people.
storm		Its okay.
rogue		Why did I have to be like this?  What purpose does it serve?
sabretooth		Scream for me.
xavier		Dear God.
cyclops		GET OUT OF THE WAY.  GET OUT OF THE WAY.
rogue		SOMEONE HELP ME.  SHES NOT BREATHING.
cyclops		ROGUE?
cyclops		YOU HAVE TO COME AND GET ME.  I CANT SEE.
rogue		Here, here, here... a little left. Careful.
cyclops		Oh God.
xavier		But why would they do this?
logan		You should always work with a spotter.
jean		Hes busy right now.
logan		I was thinking maybe you and me could go into town.
jean		Were you now?
logan		What do you say?
jean		Not interested.
jean		Let go.
logan		Suit yourself.
logan		Hes uptight.
jean		He takes his work seriously.
logan		He takes himself seriously.
jean		What is it youre failing to get at? Are you interested in me?
jean		Im just interested.
jean		Logan, do you see this ring?
logan		Ive seen a lot of rings.
jean		Yeah, Ill bet you have.
jean		Rogue, where have you been?
rogue		Logan.  The Professor wants you to come with me right away.
logan		 Hey Rogue, tell Jean what you were telling me last night.
rogue		The Professor--
logan		You remember.  About women.
rogue		Logan--
logan		Whatever you say about them being the same...
jean		Logan, what are you doing?
logan		This aint Rogue!
logan		Jean!
magneto		I do love a good check mate.
logan		What do you want?
magneto		Come with me and Ill let her live.
logan		You think I care about her?  Im the only one whos sure to walk out of here.
magneto		Then why dont you kill her.
xavier		Its going to be alright.
storm		When Rogue left the mansion, they must have followed her.
xavier		Yes... they wanted me out of the way. If I had been here... I...
cyclops		Whats wrong with him?
jean		His vital signs are weak and getting weaker.
beast		Im in the process of running more tests.  But it seems that every minute that goes by he gets weaker.
rogue		Can you help him?
beast		I dont know.
beast		Its gone.  The neuro-filter, someone removed it.
storm		What does that mean?
beast		The neuro-filter acts like a surge protector, regulating the infinite flow of information from Cerebro to the Professors mind.  Its what keeps him from being crushed by the consciousness of millions.
cyclops		Can the Professor repair his own mind?
beast		Im afraid without Cerebros help, he wont have the strength to heal himself -- And without the neuro- filter... theres no Cerebro.
jean		Hes already losing control of his vitals.  Respiratory.  Cardiovascular. Unless we manage to replace the filter by tomorrow morning, Im afraid.
cyclops		We have to find Magneto.
jean		Are you all right?
cyclops		No.  Im...  I dont know if we can do this without Charles.
jean		He put you in charge for a reason, Scott.
small girl		Dr. Grey?...
kelly		Dr. Grey.
jean		Senator?
cyclops		How did you get in here?
kelly		Your front door was damaged... there was a hole...
beast		Im Beast.
kelly		Of course you are.
kelly		Im sorry to come here, Ms. Grey.  I was afraid if I went to a hospital, they would...
jean		 Treat you like a mutant?  We are not what you think.  Not all of us.
kelly		Tell it to the ones that did this to me.
jean		I dont see these spikes youre talking about.  Im going to give you an antibiotic for the - Oh my God.
xavier		Hello, Rogue?
rogue		Hold on, Ill get the others.
xavier		Senator... Kelly?
kelly		Yes...  Who are you?
xavier		I am Charles Xavier.  This is my school.
kelly		 I was kidnapped...  They killed GUYRICH... mutants...  There was a light... a bright... light.
beast		It appears as though Magneto has built a machine which somehow triggers the mutator gene in normal human beings. And he is using Adamantium as its core.
cyclops		Its core?
beast		Thomas Edison knew how to make the light bulb.  He had the energy source. He had the vacuum.  But he didnt have the filament.  He tried metal after metal but nothing would hold to power.
storm		 ... until he found tungsten.
beast		Correct...  Apparently, Adamantium is the only metal strong enough to hold the energy this machine produces.  He used the Adamantium in Logans dog tag to test it on the Senator.  And I assume now he plans to use the rest of Logans skeleton for a larger demonstration.
cyclops		For what purpose?
beast		Yes -- Only theres a problem.  The mutator gene is not responding to the radiation the way it would in mother nature.  Its forcing the bodys cells to replicate thousands of times faster than theyre accustomed to.  The Senators body is literally burning itself out.  Scott -- this machine kills people and I dont think Magneto realizes it.
cyclops		So where do you think hes planning this larger demonstration?
xavier		There...
beast		I wish I could go.
storm		We all do.
beast		Storm.  Try to look for the highest vantage point. From what I can figure, hell need to gain as much altitude as possible to blanket the island.  It is my feeling that Magneto has to--
storm		Beast.
cyclops		You can still hear me... cant you.
cyclops		Hey.  Im sorry.  About Logan.  I was jealous.
jean		 Well, I think thats perfectly understandable.
cyclops		Ill tell you one thing though.
jean		Whats that?
cyclops		He calls me sport one more time, and Ill blow a watermelon-sized hole through him.
newscaster		With the ceremonies beginning shortly, it looks as though the last of the dignitaries have landed at Newark and Teterboro airports and will be arriving momentarily.  It would seem the United Nations has had their wish tonight.  There doesnt seem to be an empty seat in the house.
cyclops		Radar Stealth Mode checks out.  All right, therell be less security north of the George Washington Bridge.  Im taking her down.
jean		Into the Hudson?
cyclops		 Uh-huh.
cyclops		V.T.O.L. off.
logan		 Where am I?
magneto		Youre backstage at the encore of creation.
logan		What are you going to do?
magneto		In the road to survival, there is always sacrifice Logan.  We are the future... not them.  We must protect ourselves.  After tonight, when the leaders of the world return home -- They will return as brothers, as mutants... and our cause will be theirs.  This is survival, I know you understand that, Logan... or is it Wolverine?
magneto		Give me your tired, your poor...
jean		 The lights on the Statue of Liberty are off.
storm		Beast said that he would have to take a high vantage point.
cyclops		Lets dock over there.
operation commander		Liberty One, Liberty One, this is Horizon, do you copy.
agents voice		Go, Horizon.
operation commander		 Liberty, whats the situation with the lights, over?
operation commander		 Roger Liberty one.  Horizon out.
mystique		Darling...  Were clear.
cyclops		We should check out operations, see if the Secret Service is still around.
storm		LOOK OUT.
cyclops		Im going to assume that means that the Secret Service is out of commission.  Jean, can you raise me up there?
jean		Its too far.
cyclops		 Jean and I will go in here.
magneto		 Be careful everyone...  I think we may have company.
storm		 Rogue... run.
cyclops		Over there.
cyclops		Get down!
magneto		Lights on.
operation commander		Roger.  We see the lights.
toad		Dont you people die?
cyclops		Jean.  Jean stop.  Stop moving.
logan		I didnt mean to scare you.
rogue		Thank God.  Logan... we have to help Storm we have to.
logan		Ill go back, but first let me find you a safe place.
magneto		 Mystique...  Mystique, where are you?
cyclops		 Jean... can you?
jean		 Im sorry.  Im not strong enough.
magneto		 I only need one hostage.
magneto		Here -- Xaviers life.
jean		Magneto.  Ive seen the results of your machine.  Ive seen Senator Kelly.
magneto		Ahhhh, so the good Senator survived his fall?  And the swim to shore?  He is stronger than I ever could have imagined.
jean		The experiment was a failure.  Kelly didnt make it.  Yes, you were successful in activating his mutator gene, but you failed to take into account the rest of his body -- it wasnt ready for the strain. Kelly was dead within hours.  Your machine kills.
magneto		Quiet...
jean		You dont understand.
cyclops		 Stop it!
magneto		Why cant you see what I am trying to do?  Why do you stand in my way?
storm		Logan!
magneto		Ahh, there you are.
jean		 You have to stop him, the machine... it kills people...
mystique		Dont listen to her... its a trap.
magneto		What is?
mystique		This is.
jean		ROGUE, DESTROY THE MACHINE!
operation commander		Liberty one this is Horizon...  I repeat... do you copy?  Liberty one this is Horizon ... I repeat... do you copy?
sabretooth		 Your girlfriend is next.
sabretooth		I dont think so.
cyclops		Jean!
sabretooth		Sorry about this sweetheart, but I made Logan a promise.
sabretooth		You?
logan		Not just me.
rogue		Hey...  There you are.  Is it really you?
logan		 Yeah, its really me.
cyclops		Come on, lets get out of here.
logan		 Im o.k.  Im o.k.
cyclops		Sure you are, sport.
cyclops		Quiet.  Quiet everybody.
anchorman		This narrow defeat was probably due in large part to the surprising last- minute reversal by Senator Scott Frank Kelly, who until today provided the loudest voice in the cry for Mutant Registration.  Earlier today, Kelly had this to say:
kelly		 If we can not go into the future together, the divisions of fear and prejudice will tear this country apart.
kelly		No more questions.  Please, no more questions.
logan		Dont you knock?
xavier		Theyre all asking how youre doing. Are you feeling up to saying hello to everyone?
logan		 Actually Im feeling up to leaving.
xavier		 Why?  You have a home here now, if you want it.  Everyone will...
logan		What?... miss me?  Charley, Im gonna walk out the front door and trust me, it wont be soon enough for everyone here.
xavier		Of course.  Everything in this room is for you.
logan		Thanks, Ill pay you back.
xavier		Well if youre going to leave then you at least owe them a goodbye.
logan		Whats a guy gotta do to get a beer around here?
magneto		I wouldnt really have let you die, you know.  I just needed...
xavier		 I know.
magneto		Doesnt it ever wake you in the middle of the night?  The feeling that some day, some day very soon, they will pass that foolish law - or one just like it - and they will come for you and your children?  Take you all away?
xavier		It does indeed, Max.
magneto		And what do you do when you wake up to that?
xavier		I feel a great swell of pity for the poor soul who comes to that school again looking for trouble.
magneto		But you know that it is a war, old friend.  And to win a war it takes the will to fight it at all costs, by any means necessary.  And for that reason, I will always have the advantage.  No matter how you trap me, how I am contained -
xavier		And I will always be there, old friend.
magneto		And mate.
****Dialogues from script :X-Men_Origins__Wolverine.txt****

gilman		Kid didn't even move. You see that? Where's your survival instincts, boy? The boy says nothing. He readjusts his bookbag and resumes his long walk northward. GILMAN  The hell you going? You hear me talking to you? One of the other football players, MASON, walks over and inspects the boy's face.
mason		This is the kid whose old man robbed the truck stop last year. Gilman curls his meaty hand around the back of the boy's neck and pulls him closer, scrutinizing him. The four lettermen tower over the small boy. I C_ONTTNTT f 1
gilman		You the one with the convict daddy? The boy stares back at Gilman, unblinking.
mason		That's him.
gilman		What's the matter, you about to piss your pants? Answer me. The boy says nothing, never looking away from the bully. Gilman presses his fist, adorned with a heavy class ring, against the.boy's cheek. GILMAN  You want to play tough guy with me? Huh? Provoked by the boy's lack of fear, by the insolence of his stare, Gilman rears back and punches him in the face. The boy falls to the ground. Blood spills from a gash in his cheek where the class ring cut him.
mason		 Right cross to the face... and he's down! The football players laugh, looking down at the fallen boy. The boy stands. There is still no sign of emotion on his face. No fear, no anger, no evident pain.
gilman		What's the matter? You want some more? The boy doesn't look away. The bully swings, cracking the boy in the side of the head, knocking him down again. GILMAN  Let's get out of here.
mason		You gave that little pissant something to think about. Gilman grins and looks back at the boy, expecting him to be sprawled and crying on the ground. Instead the boy stands again, brushes the dirt off his shirt, and walks toward Gilman.
gilman		You got to be kidding me. I'm gonna knock the-- But Gilman's words die in his throat as he sees something impossible happening. The gash on the boy's cheek knits itself shut, leaving no sign of injury. Gilman is so shocked he doesn't see the boy's fist whizzing toward him, striking him in the nose. And then another punch. And then another. The boy is far smaller and weaker than Gilman, but he fights with a ferocity that seems inhuman, punching and kicking and headbutting, doing whatever it takes to fell his enemy. Gilman, stunned by the intensity of the assault, goes down, trying to protect his face from the blur of blows. Mason tries to pull the boy off his friend and suffers a bite to the hand. He howls with pain and backs off. The other two football players, amazed to see their leader getting pummeled by a boy half his size, watch in awe. The boy growls as he batters the bully. He grabs Gilman's collar and lifts the football player's head off the ground, prepared to deliver the coup de grace with his right fist. Three bone claws spring from the boy's hand, serrated and razor sharp. Everything stops. Mason, clutching his wounded hand, quits hollering and stares. The other two football players blink and slowly back away. Even Gilman, moaning on the ground, hushes and tries to crawl backwards, away from this beast on top of him.
kayla		It's okay... shh... it's okay. Logan pants, chest heaving, eyes wild, gripping the tattered sheets in his fists. Kayla holds him tight until his bone claws retract. KAYLA  The war dreams or the one where you're a kid? Logan takes a deep breath, finally calming down. He relaxes into Kayla's arms.
logan		The one where I'm a kid. Kayla runs her fingers through his thick hair, kissing his forehead. He sees that she has a small cut on her forearm. He takes her arm and looks at the wound.
kayla		It's nothing. Just a scratch. She kisses him. KAYLA  We need new sheets again, baby.
carny barker		Come see the notorious Bird Man! Half-man, half-eagle, is he an angel from Heaven or a spawn of Satan? Ladies and gentlemen, tonight is your last chance to see the creature you've all been hearing about: We follow two BOYS who hand the barker their tickets, pull aside the curtain and step into the sideshow...
sherrlene		I'm gonna knock with three.
beak		Are you kidding me? He throws down his hand in disgust.
sherrlene		You always hold out for gin. You could have knocked a while ago.
beak		Yeah, well, I'm an eternal. optimist. Sherrlene tallies the points.
sherrlene		All right, I'm gonna hit it. You want to come look for shells with me on the beach tomorrow?
beak		I don't want to scare away any tourists.
sherrlene		Aw, sweetie, it's winter. No tourists. I'll come get you in the morning.  1
beak		Goodnight, Sherrlene.
sherrlene		Night, Beak. Sweet dreams. Sherrlene closes the door behind her and Beak flips through the deck of cards, preparing for another lonely night. A knock on the door.
beak		You forget your purse?  All right, all right, I'm coming. He stands and opens the door.
beak		Show's over, pal. VICTOR CREED is shrouded in shadows, but when he grins his white fangs gleam. He drapes his arm around Beak and drags the birdman inside the trailer.
victor creed		Show's never over for you, freak..
beak		You want money? There's twenty bucks on the dresser. That's all I
victor creed		I just want to hear you talk a minute before I cut your lungs out. Creed shoves Beak back into his seat, picks up the bottle of bourbon, examines the label, and guzzles it. Beak opens his mouth but no words come out. Finally:
beak		You're the one that's been killing mutants. Creed wipes his lips with the back of his clawed hand. BEAK  But you... you're one of us.
victor creed		Us? There's no us. There's you and there's me, and in a minute, just me. Creed smiles down at his feathered target. Beak tries to shield his body with his wings.
beak		Please... I never hurt anybody, my whole life...
victor creed		Let me show you how it's done.
logan		How'd you find me?
stryker		We never lost you, my friend. I believe you know my colleague? Logan and Agent Zero stare at each other. There is a history between these two and clearly the memories are not fond. STRYKER  We're with the Department of Agriculture now.
logan		Agriculture? You working with farmers? Agent Zero grins. There is nothing pleasant about his grin,.
agent zero		Pest Control Division. Working with exterminators.
logan		 Still shooting first, asking questions later? In one blindingly fast motion, Agent Zero pulls a customized automatic from his shoulder holster, fires, and reholsters.
agent zero		Still smoking cheap cigars? Logan spits the butt of the severed cigar from his mouth and clenches his fists.
logan		That was a buck twenty-five, asshole. Stryker holds up both hands, one palm to Logan, one to Zero.
stryker		Boys, please.  Could we take a minute of your time?
logan		You're taking it.
stryker		We want you back. Logan turns away from them. He tosses aside the axe, picks up a load of firewood and . stacks. it beside the cabin. STRYKER  You're a born warrior. You can hide up here as long as you want, that's never gonna change.
logan		Not interested.
stryker		It's... creative work, I can assure you of that. And it pays well.
logan		Already got a job.
agent zero		Lumberjack. Eighteen grand a.year.
logan		Eighteen five.
agent zero		You content chopping down trees?
logan		Yeah, I am. It's good work. And I haven't killed anybody in three years.
agent zero		Starting to miss it?
logan		Right about now I am. Agent Zero grins, enjoying the game. Stryker, seeing that this is going badly, tries to break the tension.
stryker		We're putting together a team. Best men in the business. Men with... special qualities. Men like you.
logan		Forget it. Logan walks around to the front of the cabin. Stryker and Agent Zero follow. Logan's battered old pickup truck is parked beside the newcomers' Lincoln.
stryker		It's a team of hunters. We're going after some very bad people. Logan climbs into the driver's seat. STRYKER  Listen to me. They have names. They have addresses.
logan		I can take care of myself.
stryker		All right, forget about yourself. Your country needs you.
logan		I'm Canadian. He hits the gas, forcing Stryker to jump back lest the tires run over his foot. Stryker and Agent Zero watch him go.
fourth graders		Get him! Logan jumps back around the corner, out of sight. The fourth graders chase after him, round the corner with their throwing hands cocked, ready to launch some serious ice. Logan is nowhere in sight. The fourth graders turn in confused circles, searching for their target, snowballs melting in their hands.
kayla		Nice. Logan, caught with a snowball in his hand, looks sheepish.
logan		They started it.
logan		Stryker came by the house today.
kayla		Stryker? Colonel Stryker? The one you told me about?  What did he want?
logan		Wants me back.
kayla		And?
logan		Told him no.
kayla		So why can't they get someone else? Logan thinks about it for a moment. When he speaks there is a degree of self-loathing in his tone.
logan		I'm the best there is at what I do. And what I do best isn't very nice. Kayla studies the side of his face for a moment. LOGAN  Son of a bitch had me thinking about it for a minute. He wraps his arm around her shoulders and pulls her closer. f CONTTN11Fn1
kayla		Hey. You're not a freak.
logan		Most guys don't have to worry about gutting their girlfriend when they have a bad dream.
kayla		You're not a freak. You've got a gift.
logan		A gift? Logan shakes his head, staring at the black ribbon of road. LOGAN  You can return a gift..
kayla		The kids made cornhusk dolls today in Arts and Crafts. She reaches for her bag and pulls out a little doll. KAYLA  I made one for you. Kayla hands him the doll and he examines it by firelight. Given the limitations of the art form, it's a skillful representation of Logan, unique hairstyle and all.
logan		I look like Elvis.
kayla		You're Elvis with claws. The moon, swollen and red-hued, rises above the dark hills, framed in the cabin's window. I coNTTNTTRn 1
logan		Full moon tomorrow.
kayla		You know why the moon's so lonely? Logan shakes his head. Kayla lies back, resting her head on Logan's leg as he plays with her hair. KAYLA  She used to have a lover. Kuekuatsheu. They lived in the Spirit World and every night they'd wander the skies together. But one of the other spirits was jealous. Trickster wanted the Moon for himself. So he told Kuekuatsheu the Moon asked for flowers. He told him to come to our world and pick her some wild roses.
logan		Never trust a guy named Trickster.
kayla		Yeah, well, you do some stupid things when you're in love. Kuekuatsheu didn't know that once you leave the Spirit World, you can never go back. Now he's trapped here. Every night the Moon searches for him and every night he sees her in the sky and howls her name... but he can never touch her again. For a moment they're both quiet, contemplating the sad myth.
logan		Koo-koo-choo got screwed.
kayla		Kuekuatsheu. The Wolverine.
kayla		Be careful. Logan bends forward to kiss her on the lips. He turns and walks towards a crew of LUMBERJACKS circled around a SUPERVISOR with a clipboard. Logan turns when he hears a honk. Kayla leans out the window. KAYLA  I love you, by the way. Logan notices that dozens of lumberjacks are watching this scene. He clears his throat.
logan		T love you, too.
supervisor		 All right, I need a team of choppers for 3B, that's gonna be Phelan, Marcuse, Van Mier and Logan. Two teams for 3C...
foreman		Can't move the truck till the load's tied down.
kayla		Please? I'm already late.
foreman		Not gonna happen, ma'am... The foreman thinks about it, sighs, and changes his tune. FOREMAN  Hey Zeke! Pull this mother over. Lady's got to get through. Moments later the truck rolls forward, enabling Kayla to scoot through in her pickup. She toots her horn and waves.
kayla		Thanks, fellas.
phelan		You all want to ease the pace a little bit? Trees ain't going anywhere. Logan, in the lead, stares at a crude smiley face carved into a tall pine tree. His gaze travels from the carving to something sitting on the forest floor. (CON'TNt1F.n I
van mier		Hunter?
marcuse		Why would a hunter leave the head?
logan		Bullet didn't kill this bear.
kayla		Lolly Lolly Lolly get your adverbs here, Lolly Lolly Lolly got some adverbs here, Come on down to Lolly's get the adverbs here... Rounding a corner on the narrow access road, Kayla nearly collides with a man in a long black coat. She slams on the brakes and the truck shudders to a halt. The man's back is turned to the truck, his head bowed. His hair hangs below his shoulders, clotted with dirt, as if he's been sleeping in the woods for weeks. Kayla leans out of the open truck window. Before she can speak, the man in the long black coat turns. It's not just his size that frightens us, though the man is massive. It's not just the four-inch-long black talons curling from his fingertips, or the gleaming fangs he licks as he smiles at her. What terrifies us most are his eyes. They are a shark's eyes, black and loveless and utterly inhuman. f CONTTNT1FD'
phelan		What's the matter-- Logan holds up a hand: quiet. He hears a distant scream. A. voice he knows better than any other. He runs, leaving his astonished co-workers behind. No one can run through the woods faster than Logan and'Logan has never needed to run faster. He vaults fallen trees, ducks under branches, accelerates when he hits the access road.
logan		Come on, you're okay. Say something. Say something, darling. Say something. Kayla, come on. He cradles her in his arms. LOGAN  You're okay. You're okay.
victor creed		Stuff don't work on me. I drink and drink and I never feel any different. He downs the full glass of whiskey with a swallow. He looks around the bar, at the pool table in the back, the Wurlitzer jukebox, the stacked bottles of liquor. VICTOR CREED  You got any insurance on this place?
bartender		Insurance? I guess so. Why? Creed wipes his mouth with the back of his hand.
victor creed		'Cause it's about to get ugly. Logan walks into the tavern, sniffing the air. He sees Creed sitting on the barstool, back to the door.
victor creed		Time you got declawed, kitty kat. Creed lifts his heavy black boot and brings it down hard on the extended claws of Logan's left hand.
surgeon		We know what we're looking at?
surgeon		What is this? 
logan		Where is he?
logan		Where is he?
stryker		He escaped from an ultramax penitentiary in Nevada last year. Started murdering mutants. Shape- changer in New Mexico, pair of telekinetic twins in California-- Logan turns on Stryker, grabbing the colonel by the throat and shoving him against a lamp post.
logan		Three years I been here. Three years everything's good. Nobody knows me. And then one day you show up and the next day she's dead.
stryker		I came to warn you--
logan		You knew he was coming. f CONTTNfJRD 1
stryker		He got the List.
logan		What list? Stryker chokes, gasping for air. Logan eases up on his grip but doesn't release the man. Stryker takes a deep breath.
stryker		The List. Every known mutant in North America. Government's been keeping it for years. Names, addresses, everything.
logan		How did he get it?
stryker		Someone must have leaked it to him. There are people in Washington who want to see you all destroyed. Logan releases Stryker. The ex-colonel straightens his jacket collar and composes himself.
logan		Creed's a mutant, too.
stryker		Apparently he doesn't have much tribal loyalty. Logan turns and walks away. He looks like a homeless man, his clothes torn and bloodied, his hair disheveled. He walks fast. Stryker calls after him. STRYKER  Do you have a plan, Captain?
logan		I'm not in the Army anymore.
stryker		Do you have a plan? CnNTTNT TF.Tf 1
logan		I'm gonna track him down and I'm gonna end him. That's the plan.
stryker		You already tried that. He's a hundred miles away and you're walking out of the hospital. Logan's fists are clenched. He's ready to hammer Stryker into the ground, but the older man does not back down. STRYKER  You can't beat him. Not the way you are right now. You've probably gone your whole life without losing a fight, but I'm telling you now, you can't beat him.
stryker		Could you unsheath your claws? Logan raises his left hand. The bone claws pop out, the same length they were before Creed shattered them. STRYKER  Remarkable. Full regeneration. Logan examines the markings on his forearm.
logan		The hell you planning on doing to me? Hines gives Stryker a worried look but he ignores her.
stryker		We're going to make you indestructible. But first we have to destroy you. Stryker heads for the door but stops midway and turns. STRYKER  I forgot to give you something. He reaches into his jacket pocket, pulls out an old set of dog tags and tosses them to Logan. Logan inspects the tags with ambivalence.
logan		Never wanted to put these on again.
stryker		Held on to them for years. Figured you'd be back one day. Logan slips the steel chain over his head. STRYKER 
hines		Sir? Stryker stops and waits.for her to catch up. HINES  I know we've discussed this before-- He knows what she's going to say. He shakes his head and continues down the hallway, forcing Hines to chase after him.
stryker		Ad nauseam, Lieutenant.
hines		Anesthetic won't work on him. His healing factor neutralizes drugs. Including painkillers.
stryker		He can handle the pain.
hines		We've never conducted any animal
stryker		No other animal would survive the experiment.
stryker		The man's well-being is not my concern. Proving that the science works-- that's what matters. Hines does not relish confrontation and she's afraid of Stryker. But she gives it one more try.
hines		Sir... I took the Hippocratic Oath. I swore I'd never intentionally harm another human being. Stryker turns on Hines, jabbing his finger at her.
stryker		You also swore. to protect your nation. You remember that oath, Lieutenant Hines?
hines		Yes sir, but I don't understand why-
stryker		I don't need you to understand. I need you to follow orders. Stryker continues down the corridor, leaving Hines standing alone in the fluorescent light.
logan		You ready for me, Doc?
logan		See you on'the other side. One of the technicians fastens a breathing tube, connected to an oxygen tank, to Logan's mouth. Logan lies down, submerging himself in the cold water. The technician clamps Logan's wrists and ankles into place with stainless-steel shackles bolted to the plexiglass walls. Logan's eyes are open as he watches the robotic arms swivel into place, poised above him like a gang of metal vipers.
cornelius		Adamantium temperature?
cornelius		Feed lines clear?
cornelius		Prepare insertion.
cornelius		Commence feed. The technicians enter commands, watching close-up images of the procedure on their monitors.  INT. SURGICAL THEATER - CONTINUOUS  Logan writhes in the tank. Twelve long needles have drilled into his bones, including his skull.  TECHNICIAN #1 
stryker		You're witnessing medical history in the making. We've begun bonding adamantium to Weapon X's skeleton.
stryker		It took us three years to prepare enough alloy for the skeleton.
general munson		So if this works, I guess Weapon X won't be walking through any metal detectors.
stryker		If this works, General, Weapon X will walk wherever he wants.
general munson		How long before he's mission operative?
stryker		Remains to be seen. We're in uncharted territory here.
general munson		Uncharted territory is a pretty good description of your budget, Colonel. This doesn't work, you can kiss the Eleven good-bye.
stryker		We need the Eleven. Our victory in the war to come depends on it.
general munson		Not everyone in the Pentagon thinks there's gonna be a war. Stryker turns and fixes his gaze on the general.
stryker		Oh, it's coming, General. The enemy walks among us. We'd better be prepared.
general munson		Is there a problem? Stryker allows himself a small smile.
stryker		On the contrary. The probe is diamond-tipped. It's not hard enough to penetrate adamantium.
hines		Heart rate two twenty five. Sir, we're well beyond maximum--
stryker		You're trained to care for humans, Doctor. Weapon X is not one of us.
stryker		Easy now.
stryker		Magnificent.
general munson		I take it this is still part of the plan, Colonel?
stryker		He's got nowhere to run. Closed circuit monitors show Logan running down a tunnel. STRYKER  The only exit is a 25 ton blast door. It was built to withstand a nuclear detonation.
agent zero		Bagged or breathing?
stryker		Either way. Just bring him back.
stryker		These soldiers are the creme de la creme. They're equipped to handle the situation.
hines		The creme de la creme just got creamed. Stryker gives her a very nasty look before turning to General Munson and speaking in calming tones.
stryker		There's a high-voltage fence on the perimeter of the base--
general munson		Is it made out of adamantium?
heather hudson		Marge'll probably make her walnut pie again. I thought I'd do meringues this year. Try something different. Don't you think?
james hudson		Yep.
heather hudson		You like my meringues, don't you?
james hudson		Yep. NTTN!JRr 1
james hudson		.yep.
james hudson		Son... What in hell are you doing?
logan		Sorry... It's a little cold out there.
james hudson		Uh huh. It's the middle of January and you got no clothes on.
logan		That's probably it.
james hudson		You're not on the drugs, are you?
logan		No sir.
james hudson		Just had a rough night?
logan		Pretty rough, yeah.
james hudson		All right, come on. I got some old clothes'll probably fit you. He turns and Logan begins covering strategic places with wads of straw. JAMES HUDSON  I'll take you around back so my wife don't see you again.
logan		Sorry if I scared her.
james hudson		Scared her?
james hudson		You mind if I ask where you came running from? r
heather hudson		Jimmy. Let the boy eat. Logan piles eggs onto a slice of buttered toast.
james hudson		I'm just wondering. We're twenty miles from town. It's a miracle you didn't get hypothermia out there.
logan		I've got good circulation.  Nice chopper you got out there, by the way. James's face lights up. Logan has found the man's passion.,
james hudson		You know motorcycles?
logan		What is it, '48 Panhead?
james hudson		Best bike Harley-Davidson ever made. First one with a seventy-four- cubic inch engine, hydraulic valve lifters, aluminum heads-- Heather stands to clear the plates.
heather hudson		Now you've got him started. You need more of anything? Logan, smiling, holds up his hands to surrender. The smile fades when he sees the red laser dot appear on Heather's shirt. HEATHER HUDSON  What's the matter, honey? Logan dives across the table, trying to knock her out of the way, but the bullet beats him there, punching through the window frame and straight through Heather Hudson's heart. She collapses in Logan's arms.
agent zero		Weapon X is in the farmhouse. He just murdered.two civilians.. Fire at will. An APACHE LONGBOW helicopter streaks overhead, fifty feet above the ground.
gunner		Direct hit.  EXT. HUDSON FARM - CONTINUOUS
agent zero		Locate the target and fire again.
gunner		Sir... the target's destroyed.
gunner		They must've hated this guy big time. t C'_C?NTTNTTRI)1
pilot		What was he, terrorist or something?
gunner		I don't know but he's a puddle now.
pilot		Jesus! Logan raises his right hand and plunges his claws through the bulletproof glass.
agent zero		Your boy just took down fifty million dollars worth of hardware. Guess I got to do this myself.
stryker		 Negative. Come back to base.
stryker		You don't have the weaponry...
agent zero		Don't care what kind of bones he's got. Fifty caliber bullet through his eyeball ought to do it.
agent zero		I'm losing you, boss. Agent Zero clicks off his headset and.raises the sniper rifle, searching through the smoke with his scope. AGENT ZERO  Come out and play...
logan		Those were good people back there. Innocent people. Agent Zero surreptitiously pulls a commando knife from a sheath on his ankle.
agent zero		You ever notice good people tend to die when they spend time with you? He swings the knife at the side of Logan's neck.`Logan catches Agent Zero's wrist and slams it against the door frame. Agent Zero drops the knife with a pained smile. He didn't think that would work. AGENT ZERO  Maybe you should stick with the bad people. We're more your speed.
logan		I got a message for your boss.
logan		Get me the Pest Control Division.
logan		Why don't you get 'em anyway. And tell 'em Logan's calling. While he waits he watches one of the kids attempt a backside tailslide on the curb. The kid loses his balance and wipes out, skinning his palms on the asphalt.
logan		 You shouldn't have killed those people. All they were doing was helping a stranger.
stryker		You ran on me, goddamnit. We had a deal. Now you get back to base--
logan		They had nothing to do with this. You let that mad dog gun 'em down like they were animals.
stryker		I'm giving you an order, soldier! Return tobase--
logan		Had enough orders for one lifetime.
stryker		We're bringing you in. One way or another, we're bringing you in. Logan bows his head, considering his next words.
logan		People like you are always waiting for the next war. You start one with me, Colonel, you better sleep with the lights on. He hangs up the phone and walks to his bike. The skateboard punks give him a wide berth.
francis		She did what? Ninna, that wasn't very nice. He gives one of the female lemurs an admonishing look. She shrieks and dances away, biscuit held to her chest. FRANCIS  You must have done something to deserve it, Myrto. Oh, you bit her? Why? Haven't we talked about this? The lemurs all quiet down at the same time. Francis watches them. Something is wrong. The lemurs flee, ducking into holes in the baobab trees, hiding from whatever's coming. Francis frowns and turns. Victor Creed stands above him.
victor creed		Everyone thinks you're a lunatic, talking to animals. But I know you're not, Francis. You understand them, don't you? That's your power. Francis looks for help but there is no one in sight. VICTOR CREED  What do they tell you? Francis is quiet for a few seconds, staring at the killer.
francis		Nothing very fancy. They tell me when they're scared. When they're angry. When they're hungry.
victor creed		You ever talk to a panther, Francis? Francis shakes his head. CONTTNi7Ff)1
francis		There are no mistakes. We're all part of the plan. We're all God's children. Creed grins, licking his sharp fangs.
victor creed		I don't know who my Daddy was, but it sure as Hell wasn't God. Francis bows his head.
francis		I'm not afraid of dying. Creed runs one long claw across Francis's cheek.
victor creed		How do you know? You've never done it before.
logan		You're way out of my league, darlin'.
logan		Not tonight. The redhead purses her lips.
logan		I know exactly what I'm missing. The courtesan waits at the green light,. watching Logan speed off into the night -
wraith		This is a contact sport, ladies. If you don't like hitting people, try golf. Logan comes up behind Wraith, unseen by the Texan..
logan		You talk tough for a guy who always let me do the dirty work. A slow smile creases Wraith's face. He turns.
wraith		Look at this. You never get old, do you? The two men'embrace. There is genuine affection here, the camaraderie of men who have fought together, bled together. WRAITH  Nobody followed you?
logan		You tryin' to insult me?
wraith		Can't be too careful, brother. I've been retired five years I still check under the car every time I drive.
logan		I'm looking for Victor Creed. Wraith's face goes serious at the mention of the name. He looks around the gym, making sure no one's watching them. He glances at the boxers in the ring, who lean on the ropes and breathe heavily, awaiting instructions.
wraith		Why don't you two get a manicure or something and meet me back here in the morning.  Want a beer?
logan		Always.
wraith		I love you like a brother. So I'm giving you thirty minutes. After that, you're too dangerous to know.
wraith		What I hear, our friend the Colonel's got eyes all over the country looking for you. He ain't about to let Weapon X go rogue on him. Wraith pops the caps off the beer bottles and hands one to Logan.
logan		What's Weapon X? They tap glass.
wraith		You are. A walking, talking, hundred-million dollar experiment.
logan		You know about it. Wraith sits behind his desk and puts his boots up. Logan sits across from him.
wraith		I keep my ear to the ground. People like us, we never really quit the game.
logan		I did. Woke up one day and knew I was done. Logan peels the label from his bottle of beer. f CONTTNTTFT) )
wraith		Our friend the Colonel has big plans.
logan		What kind of plans?
wraith		Hear a lot of chatter about something called the Eleven. My boys in Arlington say it's the biggest covert weapons project since FDR built himself an atom bomb. Other than that, no one knows a goddamn thing. Wraith places his bottle on his desk and sits up straight in his chair. WRAITH  I did a little contract work with Creed back in the day. I've known some seriously foul people, but that cat... They say he took out a whole village in Nicaragua one time, every man, woman, and child, killed 'em all, just 'cause he was bored.
logan		Creed did government work?
wraith		Till they got wise to him. Wherever he went there was a trail of bodies. And not always the right bodies, you know what I'm saying? There is murder in Logan's eyes.
logan		Help me find him.
wraith		He's a hard cat to track.
logan		Just tell me where to start looking. I'll do the rest. Wraith taps the bottleneck, considering.
wraith		Might want to talk to his friends from the ultramax.
logan		The prison he busted out of?
logan		Nope.
wraith		People call him the Blob. You find him, you'll know why. Got out of the hoosegow a few months ago. Went home to Iowa. Town called Elgin.
logan		You think he's still in touch with Creed? f C_ONTTNTIRT)1
wraith		I bet you'll find out.
insert television		A REPORTER stands in a Detroit alleyway as POLICE OFFICERS in the background cordon off the area from ONLOOKERS.
reporter		This is the 13th confirmed mutant slaying of the last two months, and with the investigation apparently stalled, members of the mutant community are voicing their outrage. A YOUNG WOMAN wearing a "Mutants are Humans, Too" t-shirt speaks passionately for the camera.
young woman		Of course there's bias at work here. If these were normal people getting. chopped up, you better believe there'd be an FBI Task Force investigating, there'd be all sorts of resources allocated to find this killer. Why is it that when violence is done to our community, the nation turns its back?
end insert		Logan's expression does not change as he watches the report. Our only indications that he's boiling inside are the look of dark vengeance in his eyes, and the fingers of his right hand, which clench into a fist, unclench, clench again. He lowers the volume with the remote, picks up the telephone and dials a number. We hear four rings.
logan		Come on, he's your friend. When was the last time you talked to him?
logan		Careful, Dukes. I can smell a lie before you even tell it. The Blob begins to cry, the great bellows of his cheeks trembling, tears and snot dribbling down his face.
logan		All right, take it easy. Dukes blows his nose into the handkerchief, one of history's loudest and most violent nasal ejaculations. He offers back the soiled handkerchief. Logan waves it off. LOGAN  It's a gift. Dukes takes a deep breath, gathering himself.
logan		The club for mutants? Down in New Orleans?
logan		Nah. You know more than that. Dukes tilts his face, trying to keep his face from getting scraped off.
logan		He better be there, Freddie. And he better know something good.
stryker		we have information that he was in Las Vegas two nights ago. We'll find him soon.
general munson		This is turning into a goddamn disaster, Colonel.
stryker		I disagree. I'd say the experiment has been a success.
general munson		Success? Are you kidding me?
stryker		Weapon X is a prototype. Nothing more. He's the walking proof that enhanced skeletons are viable. That, along with the healing factor we've replicated from his blood, will insure that the Eleven is capable of protecting our species from extinction.
general munson		I'm sorry, William. I've lost confidence in your leadership. I'm going to recommend your dismissal to the Joint Chiefs. Stryker stares out the window at the distant lake, with no visible reaction to the General's words.
stryker		Disappointing, General. Expected, but still... disappointing.
general munson		I know you believe in what you're doing. But I don't. War with the mutants is not inevitable. The general coughs. He begins to look confused as he coughs again, his breathing gone suddenly ragged. He clutches at his chest. A thin smile curls Stryker's lips. He turns to regard the General.
stryker		You're having a massive heart attack, sir. Leading cause of death for men in your age bracket. The general gasps for air, trying to rise to his feet. In his death throes, he knocks the glass of water from the table. It shatters on the floor. STRYKER. You chose treason.
bouncer		You superior? Only when we go CLOSE ON THE BOUNCER do we realize he has a single eye, large and bloodshot, centered in his forehead.. Logan raises both hands. Snikt! A single claw extends from his right hand.
pusher		You lookin' for help, man? Ups, downs, in-betweens. What you need?
logan		Wild roses for the moon.
pusher		Wild roses... That some new hash out of Amsterdam?
logan		Something like that. You seen my buddy Barbarus? The dealer points toward a staircase at the back of the club.
pusher		VIP room. But hold up,bro,.I got what you're looking for.
logan		Trust me, bub-- you don't. Logan heads for the staircase.
skinhead		Private party.
logan		I'm on the list. Logan. The skinhead raises his clipboard and examines the list.
skinhead		Last name? Logan's fist splits the clipboard and crushes the skinhead's nose. The muscle-bound brute slumps to the floor, unconscious. Logan steps over him and into the VIP room.
logan		Unknown.
barbarus		 Oh, I heard about this li'l fella. Mr. Creed beat him to hell.
logan		I came back. Where is he?
barbarus		Somewhere in America. Doing what he does best.
logan		What's that?
barbarus		Putting people's insides on the outside.
logan		He's killing mutants, bub. Barbarus smiles, twenty fingers drumming on the table top.
barbarus		Some mutants need killing.
logan		You got that right. Snikt! Barbarus shoves his girlfriend out of the way and stands, unsheathing three more black commando knives from his belt. The other MUTANTS quiet down, watching the fireworks. Barbarus swings, the four knives whistling through the air. Logan ducks under them and continues to bob and weave as Barbarus advances behind a whirlwhind of black steel. Logan slashes and one severed hand falls to the ground. Barbarus howls, stabbing at Logan with his three good arms. Logan's claws flash through the air again, and another neatly severed hand lands on the table. Logan retracts his claws and curls one finger: come at me. Barbarus, shamed and furious, gathers himself and charges. Logan times his punch perfectly, pivoting on the ball of his foot and hitting Barbarus with an uppercut that sounds like a well-hit baseball. Barbarus crashes to the floor. Pantera hisses and pounces at Logan, her black claws aimed at his face. Logan backhands her. She hits the floor and slides across the hardwood. C_nWTTAATFT)
barbarus		He don't sent me postcards.
logan		No? Way I hear it, you two were practically boyfriends before he busted out.
barbarus		Busted out?
logan		You're lying to me. Barbarus grins, his teeth red from the blood in his mouth.
barbarus		No, sir. But somebody is.
wraith		He'll find you.
victor creed		That's the plan. It's a lot easier than finding him. Creed slams Wraith against the concrete wall and plunges his claws deep into Wraith's gut. The Texan's mouth opens as the full force of the pain hits him. Creed whispers in his ear. VICTOR CREED  Never knew you had one. Creed drops Wraith's body to the ground.
logan		Careful, Doc. I can smell a lie. I can hear it. Maybe you start to sweat a little bit. Maybe the pitch of your voice changes. But I'll know.
hines		I can't. Please... you don't know what they'll do to me.
logan		Nope. But I know exactly what I'll do to you.  I
hines		I don't believe you. You're different than they are. You wouldn't hurt an innocent person.
logan		You're not innocent, Doc. He leans forward, forearms on the tabletop. LOGAN  What does Victor Creed have to do with the Weapon X program?
hines		It's not the Weapon X program, it's the Weapon Ultra program. Started sixty-five years ago. They've been trying to make the perfect soldier for a long time. First to fight the Nazis. Then the Communists. Now it's mutants.
logan		So where does Weapon X fit in? Hines closes her eyes and takes a deep breath.
hines		You don't understand. X is a letter but it's also a Roman numeral. Weapon "Ex" is a nickname. Officially, you're Weapon Ten.
logan		Creed works for Stryker. Hines nods. I CONTTNi]RM
hines		I don't know about anyone getting killed. I'm just a scientist. I work in a lab sixteen hours a day.
logan		Just following orders, huh?
hines		He was your commanding officer for years. How many people did you kill on his orders? Logan stares at her for a long count. she stares back, terrified but resolute.
logan		All this time I been hunting Creed, and he's just a puppet. It's Stryker pulling the strings. He stubs out his cigar on the breakfast table. LOGAN  You ready to stop following orders?
cornelius		The Eleven will be ready within 24 hours.
stryker		Good.
cornelius		Sir... Lieutenant Hines hasn't reported to base today.
stryker		Hines?
cornelius		We saved the leftover adamantium from the Weapon X procedure. Stryker plucks one of the bullets from its niche and rolls it between his fingers, examining it with a practiced eye. CORNELIUS  Each one's got a high-explosive core. Two in the head and Logan's brain will have to regenerate from scratch.
stryker		They won't kill him?
cornelius		According to the computer models we ran, there's a 30 percent chance his healing factor will reconstitute the gray matter. But those synaptic bridges that form our memories? Gone. If he survives, his brain will come back fresh.
stryker		A blank slate... easy to train. Stryker fondles the shining bullet lovingly. STRYKER  She's a pretty little thing.
cornelius		She ought to be. That's the world's most expensive bullet. Stryker pulls a revolver from his shoulder holster, dumps the standard rounds, and begins loading the adamantium bullets. (rfNTTN11F.T 1
stryker		Mm?
cornelius		Only problem is, the procedure can only be done here at Alkali Lake. Stryker swings the chamber shut and holsters his gun.
stryker		Oh, he's coming back, Doctor. We have what he's looking for.
young sentry		Morning, Lieutenant. Hines smiles brightly, trying to hide her nervousness.
hines		Good morning! The sentry looks into the car's cabin. The passenger seat is empty. The back seat is empty.
young sentry		Could you pop the trunk for me?
hines		The trunk?
young sentry		Yes, ma'am. It's all standard procedure but Hines is close to panicking. She opens the glove compartment and hits the trunk release. The sentry inspects the trunk... nothing but a coil of rope and a roll of electrical tape. He slams the trunk door. YOUNG SENTRY  You have a good day.
hines		It's safe. Logan crawls out from the underbody, where he had been clinging. He dusts himself off.
logan		Were you aiming for every speed bump in the state?
hines		Sorry about that. Now what?
logan		We find a uniform that fits. A well-built SERGEANT walks toward his vehicle, paging through requisition papers on a clipboard. LOGAN  That ought to work.
hines		You have some blood on your shirt. Logan sees the drops of blood and tries to blot them out.
logan		I barely hit the guy. They don't notice as a small security camera near the entrance pivots, its black eye watching the intruders. 
young scientist		Lieutenant.
logan		I can smell him. He walks through the door. Hines checks to see if the coast is clear.and follows him. Neither notices the security camera mounted on the ceiling, swiveling to track their movement.
hines		Welcome to Weapon Eleven.
hines		Ten thousand. They reach the cavern floor and walk amongst the Eleven. HINES  I
logan		It's Creed... He looks inside another tank. Same cruel face, same powerful body. Only their shaved heads distinguish them from Victor Creed. LOGAN  They're all Creed.
hines		Stryker's most successful mutant hunter. They cloned him years ago.
logan		They get into the world, it's genocide.
hines		I think that's the general idea. Logan stops in mid--stride, head raised in the manner of a hunting dog who has just caught wind of his prey. HINES  What's the matter? Logan moves, walking quickly, nearly knocking over a technician entering data into one of the stasis pods.
technician		Hey... Hines hurries after Logan, smiling apologetically at the annoyed technician.
hines		Where you going? Logan never turns. f rONTTNUT n %
logan		Don't follow me. Hines stops, standing alone in the middle of the Eleven.
stryker		Hello, old friend. We've been waiting for you. Logan walks toward the desk, slowly now, a man in a nightmare he can't wake from. STRYKER  Did you really think we just let you walk away three years ago? You're a dangerous man, my friend. We like to keep an eye on dangerous men. When Logan reaches the young woman he puts his hand on her shoulder. Kayla Silverfox turns and stares up at him, tears streaming down her face.
kayla		I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. An aluminum baseball bat whirs through the air, smashing the back of Logan's head. Logan falls to the floor, unconscious. Victor Creed stands above him, staring at the flattened barrel of the baseball bat. f nNTTNITFT)1
victor creed		Man's got a hard head.
logan		Who are you?
kayla		 You know who I am.
logan		No I don't.
stryker		She's real, old friend. Your eyes are telling you. Your ears. Your nose. Logan ignores Stryker, staring at the love of his life.
logan		You're dead.
stryker		I asked you nicely to join the program. And you were so stubborn. But I knew if nothing else could motivate you, revenge would. Stryker smiles at Kayla, a proud professor beaming at his student. STRYKER  Tell him. Tell him about the day you died. Kayla, head bowed, is silent for a long count. When she speaks her voice is a strange monotone, devoid of feeling.
kayla		They gave me a syringe full of hydrochlorothiazide.
logan		Why? I
logan		Prison... Kayla finally raises her head-and looks directly at Logan.
kayla		Shot my Daddy when I was eighteen. Big mistake. Should have shot him when I was seventeen.
logan		You told me he died of a heart attack.
kayla		Maybe he had a heart attack after I shot him. Sat there and watched him bleed. After what that man did to me, I wish he died slower. Logan stares at her for a long time. KAYLA  That sweet little girl you lived with in the cabin? That was all make-believe.
logan		You loved me. I know you loved me. Kayla blinks and looks away.
kayla		I'm a good actress.
logan		No one's that good. 
stryker		Everybody's a sucker for something. Figuring out what it is, that's the trick. For you, it's a woman's love. An easy weakness to forgive. But still a weakness. Stryker signals to Cornelius. The doctor and his assistant attach a nasty-looking copper halo to Logan's skull. The halo is wired to the electric chair. Logan never takes his eyes off Silverfox. STRYKER  Don't be angry at her. She was just serving her country, keeping the mutant menace in check. She and victor have been a real credit to their race. It takes Logan a moment to understand this comment.
logan		You're a mutant?
kayla		My Daddy found out when I was twelve. Said a freak like me deserved whatever I got.
victor creed		My kind of guy.
stryker		She's a gifted girl. She can plant thoughts in anyone's mind, make them believe what she wants-- as long as she stays focused on them. He strokes her long dark hair, proud of his protege. Kayla doesn't seem thrilled by Stryker's touch, but she endures it. STRYKER  A useful tool in a seduction.
kayla		 Spent so much time getting you to love me, by the time the Colonel showed up I couldn't get you to leave me. (r0N'rTN1 F.n 1
cornelius		We're good to go.
stryker		So, Logan... The truth is, you're a real pain in the ass. But we've invested far too much time and treasure to terminate you. We're starting over. Cornelius checks the digital gauges on the machine.
cornelius		If I've calibrated correctly, we'll leave intact the hard-wired functions, walking and talking, all that good stuff.
victor creed		You mean I don't get to potty train him?
cornelius		But every memory you've ever had will evaporate. Just like it never happened. Logan never takes his eyes off Kayla, his personal Judas.
logan		Good.
stryker		 Let me know when he's clean. I have to look in on our other guest. Stryker exits the room, followed by Victor.
logan		 That story you told me... about the guy who goes to get flowers for the Moon. I can't get it out of my head. Except I had it all backwards. I thought you were the moon and I was your Wolverine. But you're the Trickster, aren't you?
kayla		My mother told me that story. She takes a deep breath and turns to go. KAYLA  It doesn't matter. You won't remember any of this.
logan		You didn't trick me into loving you.
kayla		What?
logan		The last two months, you weren't playing around in my skull. You weren't using. your powers on me. I thought you were dead and I loved you more than ever. Maybe it makes you feel better to think it was all fake. But it was never fake for me. Kayla lowers her eyes.
kayla		You don't know where I come from. You don't know what it was like.
logan		I know exactly what is was like. I come from there too.
kayla		I didn't have a choice.
logan		Course you did. You still do. Kayla stares down at Logan. The tenderness returns to her face. She could free him right now if she wanted. The moment passes and Kayla shakes her head.
kayla		I'm sorry. t CNTTNTTPTI'
logan		Yeah, you keep saying that.  Come on. Turn on the juice. Let's get this over with.
cornelius		Whenever you're ready, Miss Silverfox. Kayla turns and walks out of the room. Cornelius and his aide follow, shutting the door behind them. Logan takes a deep breath. He looks like a man who is ready to forget everything.
stryker		Lieutenant. Victor and I were just discussing how to kill you and we thought you might have some suggestions.
stryker		Now, even a rat can't chew through steel. But it can chew through a stomach. So it would. Right through the skin and the fat and the muscle and the intestines, right on out the other side. l CDNTTNi7ET) I
hines		Please, Colonel-- Stryker pats Hines on the cheek and nods to Victor.
stryker		Enjoy yourself.
hines		Please don't do this... Please! Victor drags the screaming Hines off of her cot. Kayla watches with growing unease but Stryker smiles and- waves goodbye as he turns the key that shuts the cell door.
logan		That all you got?
cornelius		 This could take a while. Raise the amperage by forty percent.
kayla		You're going to let Victor kill that woman. Stryker and Collins ignore her. KAYLA  When you got me out of prison, you told me we were going to help people. Stryker continues to sign papers, never looking up.
stryker		We are. We're saving humanity.
kayla		From the mutants? The phone rings. Stryker answers it.
stryker		Yes?
kayla		Is he clean yet? Cornelius and the assistant face front again..
cornelius		He's stronger than I thought. We could be here all night.. Kayla watches Logan in his agony. A glimmer of remorse passes over her face.
kayla		He was good to me. Cornelius, fiddling with the amperage dial, curls his lips in a sardonic smile.
cornelius		You have a funny way of showing your gratitude. Logan thrashes in his chair. Kayla chews her lip. For a long count she watches Logan suffer.
kayla		You should turn it off now. Cornelius turns and stares at her.
cornelius		I should what?
kayla		You two have always hated each other. You should fight. The assistant blinks and begins to scowl, turning toward Cornelius just in time to get punched in the mouth. The two men brawl on the floor with the lack of skill you'd expect from two scientists.
kayla		Hey. Wake up. Logan opens his eyes. He is clearly disoriented, as if waking from a long coma. He stares up at Kayla. KAYLA  Do you understand what I'm saying?
logan		I would have done anything for you.
kayla		Please...
logan		Do you hear me? Anything. 1
kayla		Please... Creed's killing your friend.
victor creed		I've always had a thing for human chicks. You're all so soft and helpless.
hines		No...
victor creed		Maybe it's time I did a little surgery on you, Doctor.
victor creed		 Starting to think you're addicted to pain. You keep coming back for more. Snikt !
logan		This is the end.
victor creed		Amen to that. Kayla stands in between them, holding up her hands.
kayla		Please! We shouldn't be fighting each other. Stryker's using us.
victor creed		A little late for the Mutant Power crap. We hunt freaks for the man. That's why we're free.
kayla		What's he gonna do with us when the other mutants are dead? Put us in a zoo? Creed hesitates, considering the logic of her words. A fanged smile splits his face.
victor creed		Don't try your head games on me. I've gutted better telepaths than you. Creed rears back to hammer Kayla, a blow that would separate her head from her body. Logan catches Creed's fist inches from Kayla's face.
logan		Time you quit picking on girls.
victor creed		Oh, I'm happy picking on men. Creed swings at Logan's head, Logan ducks, and the fight begins. This is melee so efficient that no motion is wasted. Every lunge would kill any other adversary. Every parried blow would shatter a normal man's arm. Kayla, bleeding from the nose, staggers to her feet. She helps up Hines and pushes her toward the door.
kayla		Get out of here. Hines doesn't have to be told twice. She flees. Creed sees his plaything running out the door. He snarls in frustration.
victor creed		You're ruining my party. He grabs hold of Logan and hurls him headfirst through the cell wall-- a concrete support wall.
kayla		We're here as guests of Colonel Stryker. The sentries' hostility shifts into apologetic obeisance.
kayla		You boys are no longer needed here. Go back to barracks.
sentries		You got it. See ya later. Bye! The sentries wave cheerfully and depart. Creed and Logan are equally skilled, but Creed's superior size and strength begin to wear the smaller man down. Creed slams him into the wall, opening fissures. Holding both of Wolverine's wrists up with one hand, Creed grabs Wolverine's face with his free hand. 
victor creed		How you gonna fight without eyes, little man? Logan brings his knee up hard, smashing his adamantium- enhanced kneecap into Creed's groin. The big man groans. Logan spins Creed around, jamming him against the wall. He tries to skewer Creed with the claws of his right hand but Creed moves his head at the last moment. Logan's claws are buried to the hilt-in the wall. He strikes at Creed with his left hand, but Creed dodges again. All six of Logan's claws are deep in the solid rock wall. He brings his hands. together, the adamantium blades slicing through granite as if it were cheesecake. Creed ducks under the claws an instant before they shred him. He grabs Logan in a-bear hug. A large section of the wall behind them falls out, and, unable to halt their momentum, Logan and Creed tumble through the hole, disappearing from sight. Kayla runs over and stands at the jagged precipice, looking out onto the gargantuan Weapon XI cavern.
stryker		1
lead technician		We can't rush them,.sir. They've been in stasis for--
stryker		I want them ready! The Lead Technician flinches and barks orders to his subordinates, who enter commands into their computers. The lids of ten thousand isolation tanks slide open. As the camera roams among the Eleven, needles and hoses detach from their bodies, releasing their metallic grip. The cloned Creeds begin to stir in their stainless steel coffins.
victor creed		Your pal Wraith pissed all over my boots when I crushed his spine. Smell like fear, don't they? Something changes within Logan, a fury so overwhelming it cannot be contained, a rage so vast it could only be called berserker. .Logan rolls toward his tormentor, sweeping his claws straight through Creed's ankle, severing the foot. Creed screams and falls to his knees. Logan stands, grabbing a handful of Creed's dirty blonde hair.
logan		This is for the ones who couldn't fight back.
stryker		 Soldiers! The Eleven snap to attention with machined synchronicity, all ten thousand facing Stryker.
logan		I don't want him hypnotized. I want him dead. Never taking his eyes off his enemy, Logan advances.
stryker		The man's committing suicide. He leans into the microphone. The Eleven listen to their commander's voice, amplified by hundreds of speakers STRYKER 
logan		 Get the hell out of here.
kayla		What are you doing?
logan		Bringin' down the house. He sweeps his claws clean through the pillar, at an angle. The uppermost section shears off and drills into the floor with a concussive whump that spiderwebs the concrete for thirty feet around the impact site. Stryker realizes what Logan is doing.
kayla		One of them could have survived. Logan glances at her. KAYLA  The clones. They've got your healing factor. Logan looks back at the devastation.
logan		Unless someone comes along who can move a few million tons of steel, they ain't going anywhere.
logan		Almost looks peaceful from here.
kayla		There's something I want you to know. He looks at her. (CONTTNt1F.fl
****Dialogues from script :Year_One.txt****

the woman		 I'm so hungry.
the man		 Yeah. Me, too. The DRUMS get hotter as he closes his eyes and leans in to kiss her, but she turns and walks away.
woman		What should we eat?
the man		Oh, you actually meant you were hungry. I thought-- forget it.
the woman		Mmmm, these are so good.
the man		Mmrrunm, they really are . When she turns away he spits them out in disgust. Maya smiles and puts her face very close to his, their lips almost touching.
maya		 You know what I'd really like?
maya		Some fruit.
zed		(frustrated, but hanging
zed		Orange? Tangerine?  Umm, mango? Kiwi? Peach? She shakes her head coyly. He starts darting from tree to tree, hopefully pointing out various options. She follows him.
zed		 Okay, don't tell me-- papaya? Pomegranate? Lemon? Lime? Kumquat? Uh, cock? Cockfruit?
zed		Watermelon? Honeydew? Grapes?
zed		 Starfruit, casaba-- tangelo?
maya		Nope.
zed		(he doesn't even like her
maya		Why not?
zed		Because that's the fruit we don't eat! It's forbidden.
maya		Why not?
zed		Because we don't! It's a rule! That's the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil. You don't eat from that one. Nobody ever has.
maya		Why not?
zed		Stop saying why not! I told you-- it's a rule.
maya		So do you always follow the rules?
zed		No-- yeah-- I don't know. We don't have that many rules. In fact, we only have one rule-- DON'T EAT THAT
maya		Okay, fine. We won't. Forget I mentioned it. I understand if you're afraid--
zed		I'm not "afraid"--
maya		No, really, it's all right. I just thought you might be curious why we can eat everything else that walks, crawls, swims, flies, or grows in the ground, but not that particular fruit. And I thought you might be the kind of man who's willing to take a chance and start thinking for himself, but I guess I was wrong. She glares defiantly at Zed, then starts to walk away. It's not Paradise anymore. Then like every man that ever lived and will ever live, he caves.
zed		Okay! Fine! You want to try the Good and Evil fruit, you got it. He rips two ripe fruits from a low-hanging bough and hands her one. They both stare at the fruit.
maya		You first.
zed		No way! It was your idea. You go first.
maya		We both bite at the same time. Zed considers for a long moment then decides.
zed		Okay. Ready? One-- two-- three! Zed chomps down hard and takes a big bite, but Maya fakes him out and stops before her teeth break the skin. ZED                                                              Yuchh! That's horrible. Yecch, ptui! Ughh. He frantically wipes the inside of his mouth with his fingers, trying to get the terrible taste out.
maya		So you're saying it's not good?
zed		Yes! I'm saying it's not good! He grabs his belly as his stomach starts to cramp. Then a loud bowel sound and his eyebrows shoot up. ZED                                                              Oh, no--
6.		Official White He runs for the bushes. Maya's attention gets diverted.
maya		 Ooh, banana!
marlak		 For you.
maya		 Thank you, Marlak.
zed		 Do me a favor. Just kill me.
oh		Why did you eat that fruit? It's forbidden. Everybody knows that.
zed		I couldn't help myself! Maya was just staring at me with those pouty eyes-- and those perky breasts-- opposable thumbs. And how about the name? "The Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil"? You don't think that sounds tempting? They should've just called it "The Tree with the Fruit that Tastes Like Shit." Then for sure nobody would eat it. Zed notices a VILLAGER squatting in the bushes right behind his dwelling. ZED                                                              Why does everyone have to crap right behind my hut?
oh		I think, and I could be wrong, that all the poop makes the ground more fertile, which in turn, gives the leaves in the area a softer feel. It's a vicious circle. Oh notices a very pretty young woman, EEMA, standing near the communal fire with TWO HUNTERS. His heart leaps. OH                                                               Hi, Eema! Eema turns, sees it's him and gives him a perfunctory wave, then turns back to the hunters and says something about Oh that makes them laugh.
zed		I don't see it. I mean she's cute, but I don't think I'd lay with her.
oh		Of course not! She's your sister! It'd be like sleeping with your mother.
zed		which was a big mistake. I see that now. You think it won't be awkward the next morning but-- trust me, you just want to rip your eyeballs out.  Listen, if you want to impress Eema, tonight at the feast, do the fertility dance with her, then drag her back to your hut.
oh		My hut's a mess. And what if she struggles?
zed		So you give her a little tap on the head. Women respond to that--
zed		I wouldn't read too much into that. She kisses, then tongues the spear tip. ZED                                                             Okay, that might mean something. The hunter Marlak walks by and stops. He's clearly half a rung lower on the human evolutionary scale.
marlak		You didn't hunt today.
zed		Yes, Marlak. Very observant. I was indisposed. Got that intestinal thing that's been going around. Marlak grunts and examines the primitive line drawings on the walls of Zed's hut.
marlak		 What's that supposed to be?
zed		It's a bear.
marlak		That's not a bear. That's just some lines on a skin.
marlak		That's stupid.
zed		Yeah. Like you'd know.
marlak		And what's that? He picks up a skin with another of Zed's drawings on it, this one of a big-breasted naked girl. Zed quickly grabs it and holds it upside down.
zed		That-- would be an antelope-- or a deer-- a deerpalope.
marlak		 It looks like Maya.
zed		 How could it be Maya? It's just some lines on a skin.
marlak		Stay away from my woman.
zed		Your woman? I'm not sure dragging her into the bushes kicking and screaming means you have an actual "thing" going. Marlak cuffs him hard on the side of the head.
marlak		 Stay away.
zed		 Hey! Nice supra-orbital ridge, fartface!
zed		Hey, Oh? Did it ever occur to you that there may be more to life than this?
oh		 Okay, I think somebody's had enough.
zed		No,                                                            I'm serious.We're born into thisworld, we hunt, we gather, we eat,we sleep, we make babies--
oh		You make babies--
zed		--but why? What's the point?
oh		You always get like this when you smoke. Oh takes a big toke on the pipe, chokes, and starts coughing uncontrollably.
zed		No. Last night I couldn't sleep, so I just laid there looking up at the sky, counting the stars. There were over seventy. Kinda makes you think, doesn't it?
oh		 No.
zed		Really? I've been thinking about it ever since I ate that fruit. Don't you ever wonder what's on the other side of the mountains?
oh		There's nothing on the other side of the mountains. Everybody knows that. The world just ends. You'd fall right off the edge. 
zed		But what if it doesn't? What if it just goes on and on forever? Or what if it's round? (he picks up a round
zed		 Sorry!
oh		(tries to cheer him up Will you stop with that crazy talk? We're at a feast. You love feasts. There's women, there's boar meat, there's an assortment of berries-- there's women-- Oh looks over at Eema. Zed picks up on it.
zed		Do it, man! Go dance for her.
oh		You think? They're playing the Jackal Dance. I don't do that one so well.
zed		Are you kidding? Go! Jackal Dance! Oh summons his courage, gets up and crosses to where the girls are sitting. Zed makes subtle eye contact with Maya, waggles his eyebrows and licks his lips. She laughs and looks away. Oh starts dancing timidly right in front of Eema, subtly jerking his pelvis, trying to be cool. Eema just stares at him for a moment, then goes back to talking to her friends. Oh looks over at Zed for help. Zed mimes clonking her on the head. Oh picks up a wooden club and hits Eema right on the noggin. However, instead of submitting, she gets really pissed, stands up and decks him with one punch.
zed		Excuse me, hunter coming through.
villagers		Hey! Wait your turn! There's a line here, buddy!
zed		For your information I was in line and I just stepped out to chew some food for an elderly lady. Suddenly a SPEAR is thrust inches from his face, stopping him. It's Marlak, who towers over Zed. His cohort, ENMEBARAGESI, short and stout, stands beside him.
marlak		Enmebaragesi said he saw you in the garden with Maya.
zed		Oh, really? And what if I called Enmebaragesi a liar?
enmebaragesi		I'd kill you.
zed		Calm down. I said "what                                     if"-- it was a hypothetical. Marlak gets right in Zed's face.
marlak		Enmebaragesi doesn't lie. Villagers gather around them, Maya and Eema among them. Marlak puts his spear point to Zed's throat. MARLAK  The truth!
maya		Zed, just admit it. You're just making it harder on yourself.
zed		 Okay, fine, you got me. (gingerly moves the spear
zed		Isn't that what we're talking about? Maya rolls her eyes.
enmebaragesi		No, I saw you eat the Forbidden Fruit.
zed		Oh, that! Yeah! I did eat the fruit. I was just kidding about humping Maya. Marlak knocks Zed to the ground. The DRUMMING stops. Oh comes running over and gets between Marlak and Zed.
zed		Look, Marlak, this is crazy. You're two of me. I'm not gonna fight you over a girl, okay? Zed starts to walk away but quickly pivots and throws a WILD HAYMAKER at Marlak who easily ducks it, and it hits an unsuspecting Enmebaragesi squarely in the nose. Zed                                                             And let that be a lesson to your big friend- Marlak grabs Zed, lands two solid punches to Zed's mid- section, and then clocks him with a vicious right that sends him sprawling to the ground.
marlak		 Your father was a great hunter, but you're like-- a girl. The hunters laugh.
enmebaragesi		Good one, Marlak.
another hunter		Zing.
marlak		Now I kill you. He's about to spear Zed when suddenly the Shaman screams and jumps between them. The villagers step back as the Shaman howls an incantation and shakes his magic rattle at Zed.
shaman		 We need to talk.
shaman		You really ate the fruit?
zed		One bite! What's the big deal?
shaman		(halfheartedly shakes a chicken-foot rattle at
zed		I've always had trouble with the Great Turtle Theory-- too many unexplained gaps.
shaman		Whatever. You're screwed now.
zed		Really? How screwed? Like I knew it was a rule but I'm a little fuzzy on the exact details.
shaman		You're cursed, man, and if you stay here then we'll all be cursed. You have to leave.
zed		Where am I supposed to go?
shaman		Up to you. From now on you're completely on your own.
official white              17.		ZED                                                              Okay, is that supposed to be funny? He stands up and we see that the whole tribe is standing around them in a wide circle. Marlak bangs his spear on the edge of his animal-hide shield, starting a rhythmical beat. The other hunters join in, keeping the beat, staring at Zed with lethal intent
shaman		 And some of the guys got together and they want you to have this bow. He hands him a strong hunter's bow.
zed		I don't want to seem ungrateful or anything, but you wouldn't happen to have any arrows, would you? An arrow zips in and sticks in the post next to his head.
shaman		 You'd better get moving. Zed looks around at his fellow villagers, trying to summon what dignity he has left.
zed		Yes, or gatherer-- but there's got to be more to life than this-- 
marlak		 Now you die. Marlak throws his spear and misses as Zed takes off running into the forest with the hunters right behind him and the whole village ablaze.
marlak		I see you.
zed		 No, you don't.
marlak		Yes, I do.
zed		How can you see me if I'm not here?
marlak		You're trying to trick me.
zed		Okay, then tell me this-- who's standing right behind you?
marlak		 I'm going to gut you like a pig. He is about to plunge his knife into Zed when suddenly he is struck from behind by a heavy tree branch. He falls heavily, knocked senseless by Oh who is standing over him with the makeshift club. Zed sits up and smiles gratefully at Oh.
oh		I guess I'm with you.
zed		Was it my speech?
oh		No, the fire. I lost everything.
zed		But the speech was pretty good, right? I mean, even I was moved and I was the one speaking.
oh		Can we talk about this later? Oh pulls Zed to his feet, and they sneak off into the deep woods.
zed		This is nice, out here, the two of us.
zed		Come on, those hunters are idiots. In an hour they'll forget the whole thing.
oh		I don't think they'll forget the fire.
zed		You know what we should do? You and me should kill the biggest boar ever-- just huge!-- and take it back to the village. Just to show them. And we won't let anyone else eat it. They'll have to watch us eat it.
oh		If it's that huge how would we carry it back?
oh		Yeah, we'll make everyone watch us eat a squirrel. Will you get real? There's no going back! There's, nothing to go back to! It's just ashes.
zed		 Oh!
oh		What are you doing? Zed makes a minimal gesture with his head. Oh looks up. A COUGAR crouches on a tree limb above them, poised to leap. Oh freezes. They talk like ventriloquists.
zed		Don't move a muscle.
oh		Will that work?
zed		 I don't know. There's two different opinions on this one. Some say run, some say don't.
oh		What are you going to do?
zed		I'm going to-- RUN! He sprints off and the cougar pounces right on oh.
zed		You really should put some maggots on those scratches. They look pretty deep.
zed		Because I honestly thought he'd go for me. I thought I was doing you a favor. Apparently not appreciated.
oh		Yeah, big favor.
zed		You didn't have to come with me, you know. I didn't ask you to come.
oh		Yes, you did! You looked right at me-- twice.
zed		Yes, that's a technique of public speaking, but I didn't ask you specifically. You chose to come. You gotta take some responsibility for that. And there's no point coming if you're just gonna keep whining about every little-- cougar that attacks you.  You want some or not?
zed		You making your own fire?
oh		No, arrows. We're going to need them.
zed		 You're still coming?
oh		 Incredible. He takes a step forward, the rock shelf gives way beneath his feet and he falls a great distance, screaming all the way down, bouncing painfully off the big boulders, then a long, tumbling slide over sharp rocks and gravel to the bottom.
zed		Say what you want, but that was no accident. You don't see a pattern here?
oh		I see a pattern. Every time something terrible can happen to me, it does.
zed		Yeah, but why? Why'd the cougar go for you and not me? Why did you fall and I didn't? Hard to believe it's all just random. Think about
oh		 You think? There's about a thousand footprints here.
zed		 They stopped here to poop. Look.
oh		No, thank you.
zed		Four men, maybe five. And a child-- or a small women maybe.
oh		 Okay.
zed		 Looks like they had some nuts-- dried fruit-- some kind of green leafy vegetable--
oh		Okay! Enough! Can we just go? Maybe we can find where they peed. 14                                                              Then Zed sees light through the trees and creeps   14 stealthily to the tree line. Oh creeps up beside him and they peer through the bushes. THREE COWS are grazing in a green pasture. Beyond it, well- tended fields of growing grain. Zed snaps into stalking mode, ducks down and silently signals Oh to be quiet and stay put.
official white              27.		ZED                                                            We're gonna need some arrowheads. Zed draws his flint knife, then suddenly bursts out of the forest, dashes toward the cow and leaps on its back. Oh comes running up as the cow bucks and sends Zed flying. Lying on the ground, Zed looks up and sees TWO SURPRISED YOUNG FARMERS dressed in simple white woolen tunics staring at him.
zed		(getting painfully to his
oh		 He's a hunter. I'm more of a "maker." I made this loincloth, I do arrows-- I made a shelf unit for my hut--
zed		What do you guys do?
cain		You are called suck.
abel		My brother is angry because God looked on my sacrifice with favor.
cain		 "God looked on my sacrifice with
oh		Well, it's hard to say-- we just
abel		Why are you dragging them into this? What do they know? They're morons.
cain		 You think you're so superior to everyone else.
abel		Superior-er than you.
cain		Really? Let's see how good you are at getting your ass kicked. 
abel		Yeah? Bring it! 
zed		Okay, boys, that's enough. We just want to--
cain		 No! This smug asshole insulted you and I want him to take it back.
zed		We're not really that insulted--
cain		 Take it back!
abel		 Make me! Zed steps between them, trying to make peace.
zed		Boys, boys! You're brothers! Let's just relax and-- Cain uses the distraction to sneak-punch Abel and the fight is on. They start throwing wild punches, then clinch and wrestle each other to the ground.
oh		Shouldn't we do something?
zed		Just let them settle it. Cain picks up a good-size rock and strikes Abel on the head with all his might. Abel falls heavily to the ground and lies there, not moving. Cain stands over him, breathing hard. ZED                                                           
cain		(turns on him sharply, still holding the bloody
zed		Nothing! Cain stares at Abel, still inert on the ground.
cain		He's all right. Probably just
oh		 Probably just tuckered out from the fight.
cain		 Yeah.
official white              30.		CAIN                                        This is bad. This is really bad. We're in serious trouble.
zed		Hey! What do you mean "we"? I don't want to play the blame game, but you're the one who hit him.
cain		 You could've stopped me! There's two of you and only one of me.
zed		We didn't know you were going to kill him--
cain		You calling me a murderer? 
zed		Did I say that?
cain		It was an accident!  Right?
oh		Right! You were holding the rock and he-- accidentally ran into it-- really hard-- with his head.
cain		 Okay-- yeah-- good. But it might be better if we don't mention the "accident" to anyone. People might get the wrong idea. Understand?
oh		Oh, yeah, people could so easily misinterpret that.
zed		Unfortunately we already have dinner plans.
cain		I think you should come with me.
oh		 why don't we go with you?
zed		What are the big round things for?
cain		They're wheels, numbskull. They make the cart roll.
zed		 Wow! That is like the greatest invention since the vagina. Cain whips the oxen and they lumber forward. Oh screams as the HEAVY WHEELS ROLL OVER HIS FEET.
the cart		with them riding on it, plodding slowly into a FARMING HAMLET,a cluster of small, roughly plastered mud houses with thatched roofs. ADAM, dour, hard-working and long-suffering, but still strong and upright, trudges home with a metal scythe over his shoulder. He could be Max Von Sydow.
adam		 Cain, my son!
cain		Hail, Father. Cain stops the cart and dismounts with Zed and Oh. CAIN                                                              Can these guys stay for supper? (off Adam's questioning
adam		Greetings, strangers. I am called Adam and you are welcome to share the fruits of our toil.
zed		Thanks, but I'm kind of staying away from fruit for the time being. Zed gives Cain a subtle, acquiescent nod as Adam ushers them into his crude dwelling.
33.		Official White
adam		 Where is thy brother, Abel?
cain		 You guys see him? They shake their heads and cough nervously.
adam		 Your sister Lilith said she saw him in the field with you.
cain		I think that was yesterday.
adam		No, this day. She said you both made offerings.
cain		That might've been Boaz---
adam		No, you and Abel. She said it looked like you were arguing.
cain		Hey, we're brothers, we argue sometimes- it's not that big a deal.
adam		And his flock was untended in the
adam		I fear the worst for Abel. I am sorely vexed.
zed		Yeah, that's got to be pretty vexing. A Bergmanesque gloom fills the hovel as Adam muses sullenly on his sorry circumstances.
adam		For my sin the ground is cursed. Thorns and thistles does it sprout for us, and we are doomed to toil all the days of our lives. For as the Lord has commanded, by the sweat of your brow shall you get bread to eat until you return to the ground from which you were taken. For dust you are, and to dust shall you return.
zed		Wow. That's kind of a downer isn't it?
adam		It's the way of the world.
zed		Boy, I hope not.
adam		 You are welcome to stay the night and lay with my daughter Lilith. Zed looks at the luscious Lilith, then back at Adam.
zed		I'm waiting for the punchline.
adam		She is without a husband, and as the Lord has said, thou shalt be fruitful and multiply. Lilith nods demurely and exits through a curtain. Zed starts to follow her out.
oh		Hey! What about me?
adam		You may share the bed of my son Seth.
zed		Yeah, there you go.  Oh looks at Seth.
seth		I multiplied with a sheep.  My thingie smells like lamb chops.
lilith		 My bed is small but you're welcome to share it. It's the way of my people.
zed		 And that's a good way to be. In fact, I'm kind of surprised a pretty girl like you is sleeping alone anyway. I would've thought guys would be lined up at the door.
lilith		I don't like men.
zed		 Maybe you just haven't met the right one.
lilith		I like girls.
lilith		 I'm attracted to women.
zed		 I don't even know what that means. What does that mean?
lilith		I like to have sex with other women.
zed		(stares at her for a long
seth		Oooh, listen to this one. Seth lifts his knees to his chest and farts a surprisingly long cadenza.
oh		That's really good.
seth		Want to see a trick?
oh		Do I have to?
cain		It's been the same damn thing my whole life. 
oh		(trying to change the
adam		Cain!
cain		Yeah, hey-- where's everybody going?
adam		To look for Abel.
adam		What did you say?
cain		 I said good luck. I'm really worried about him. He turns aside and makes a goofy sarcastic face for Oh's benefit.
adam		You're not coming?
cain		Yeah, I am. I just have to finish toiling over here, then I'm right behind you. Adam and the others hurry off, and as soon as they're gone, Cain rushes over and starts harnessing the oxen to the cart. CAIN                                                            Now listen, I'm getting out of here, and you better come with me. I have a feeling they're going to try and blame this whole "Abel- killing-thing" on you.
zed		Why would they blame us?
cain		Because when they find him and his head is all bashed in, they're going to start pointing fingers, and you guys are drifters, so they'll put two and two together and that makes-- He stares expectantly at Zed and Oh. CAIN                                                            Four! It makes four! Now stop asking so many questions and hop on. We gotta get out of here! He urgently whips the oxen and they climb aboard as the cart lumbers forward.
official white                                39.		 21                                                              EXT. WHEAT FIELD - MINUTES LATER
cain		 They're gaining on us! Zed and Oh look back.
their pov		The other oxcarts are a hundred yards back, "chasing" them at maybe two miles per hour. Cain whips his oxen and they step up the pace to 3 MPH.
zed		Look at all these people! And this stuff! Oh approaches a bakery stand and stares hungrily at the bread.
oh		 Ow!
merchant		Two silver pieces.
zed		Yeah, we're gonna need money.  It's Marlak! Marlak's hands are bound and he's restrained by a chain attached to a thick leather collar around his neck.
auctioneer		 Next up, an unusual item-- looks like a Caucasian-- he's big, he's strong, he's a good breeder, so I'm going to start at                                               100        gold minas. Do I hear                                                       100? As the bidding starts, Zed spots Maya, his sister Eema, and Enmebaragesi among the chained-up slaves waiting to be sold. Zed and Oh push their way through the crowd and go to them.
zed		 Eema! Maya! The women embrace him with relief and excitement.
eema		Oh.
zed		What happened? How did you get here?
maya		Well, after the fire--  --the hill tribes raided the village. The men fought them but they were too many. They took us captive, marched us to the sea, then traded us to the boat people who brought us here.
oh		 Are you all right? Did they-- rape you?
slave trader		You interested in some slaves?
zed		 Ooh, feisty! So how does this work if we want them? The slave trader notes Zed's peasant clothes.
slave trader		You have money?
slave trader		Look, pal, money talks and bullshit walks. I don't have time for looky- loos.
oh		 What an amazing coincidence-- running into you and Maya and them.
zed		You still think it's all just a coincidence?                                                All of us here right now, at this particular place, at this particular time?
zed		I'm not sure yet, but I'm starting to believe that everything happens for a reason. Like, why did I eat the forbidden fruit?
oh		To get laid?
maya		Hey!
oh		which omnipotent force?
zed		What do you mean "which" omnipotent force? How many omnipotent forces could there be?
oh		I don't know! What's "omnipotent" mean?
zed		Work with me-- I'm just speculating here. Let's call this force "God"; and let's say this "God" is controlling everything. Maybe God wanted me to have the knowledge of good and evil.
oh		Why would he want that?
maya		How do you know God's a "He?" Zed rolls his eyes.
zed		Don't you get what I'm saying? What if we've been chosen?
maya		You think we've been chosen by God?
zed		Well, no offense, but it's possible that I was chosen and you all just happened to be there.
oh		Why would God choose you? Why wouldn't he choose Marlak? He's stronger.
zed		A chosen doesn't need to be strong. I'm big this way. 
oh		You do have a fat face.
zed		Not my face, my brain. It's enormous. I'm the smartest guy in the village.
zed		What?!  Which one of us is smarter?
villager		You're both idiots!
zed		Oh yeah, then why are we free and you're chained up?
villager		Because of you?
cain		 Hey! Come here. I think we worked something out.
zed		 Sit tight. I'm going to get you out of here. Do you trust me?
zed		Fair enough. She gives him an encouraging hug, then Zed and Oh cross to Cain and the slave trader.
zed		I never trusted that guy.
slave trader		 All right! Next up is a twofer-- I'm selling them as a pair-- I know they don't look like much-- but I'm starting the bidding at sixty gold minas. Do I hear sixty?
zed		 It's not like I want to be a slave or anything, but this is embarrassing!
slave trader		Thirty-five? Thirty?
oh		They probably don't know how smart you think you are. Finally, a Bedouin SHEIK raises his giraffe-tail fly whisk and waves it at the slave trader.
slave trader		Yes! Sold to Sheikh Hassan for                                  30 gold minas!  Have a good time in the salt mines, boys.
maya		For you maybe.
zed		Look, I want you to know I blame myself for everything that happened.
maya		So does everybody else.
marlak		 Get away from my woman!
marlak		I'll kill you! Marlak starts muscling and squirming his way through the body pile trying to get to Zed.
oh		 You can do it, Zed! Use his weight against him! Marlak now has Zed locked in a lethal choke hold.
bedouin		 Knock it off! Don't make me come in there!
sargon		 Take the slaves! Marlak starts for Zed but two soldiers ride up and throw a heavy restraining net over him. Zed grabs oh and takes off running over the nearest sand dune. Sargon watches them flee.
a soldier		Sir, shall I pursue them?
sargon		No. Let the desert have them. They won't get far.
sargon		Tend to the slaves. We leave for Sodom before daybreak.
guard		Yes, sir.
oh		Their hats? I'm sorry, but when that one guy cut the other guy's head off, my first thought wasn't, "Gee, what a great hat."
zed		It wasn't my very first thought, but I'd be lying if I said it wasn't up there.
oh		How are we going to rescue anybody? They're killers!
zed		Shit! He leaps to his feet, looks around desperately, and sees nothing but a vast wasteland in every direction.
oh		Now where do we go? Zed sniffs the air, puts his ear to the ground, and tastes the sand.
zed		I have no idea.
oh		 Why do I listen to you? Now we're going to starve to death or die of thirst.
zed		Will you stop being so negative? I got your back, man. Who saved you from those lions when you were a baby? They were going to pounce, had you surrounded. Took the mama lion-- BAM!-- kneed her right in the face. Papa lion comes flying at me-- BAM!-- dropped an elbow, knocked his ass out.
official white                           53.		ZED                                                              Took his legs-- THWOOM!-- tossed him in the river. And the rest just ran off.
oh		You know, I've asked people about that and no one else seems to remember it.
zed		Yeah, because nobody else was there. You're lucky I was walking by.
oh		 He was a small man. Oh collapses face down in the sand. Pull back to reveal that they are surrounded by hungry jackals, vultures and hyenas.
zed		We've got to keep moving.  I've got you, buddy-- just like always. He puts Oh over his shoulder and stumbles on.
isaac		Hey, Dad? We making a burnt offering?
abraham		Yes, Isaac. As God has commanded me.
abraham		The Lord will provide the sheep. Abraham takes a cord and starts tying Isaac's hands together.
zed		What do you mean, nothing? You were just going to kill him!
abraham		No, I was going to sacrifice him. There's a difference.
zed		 Not to him, I'm guessing. Isaac nods gratefully.
abraham		By what right do you interfere? Art thou an angel of the Lord?
zed		 What do you think?
abraham		 Verily, thou wast sent to stay my hand by the Eternal one, blessed be He.
isaac		 He's nuts! I'm telling you-- he's totally lost it.
abraham		 I am Abraham, son of Terah of the house of Nahor.
zed		I am Zed and this is Oh, sons of-- people you wouldn't know.
abraham		The tents of my kinsmen lie just beyond. There will you find all that you desire. Come.
abraham		 My brothers, let us give thanks unto God for staying my hand on the mountain this day.
isaac		 Best dad in all the land, everyone!
the kinsmen		(a ritual response, in
abraham		And for the bounty which He hath bestowed unto us.
the kinsmen		 He hath increased our wealth and blessed us with His loving kindness. Zed and Oh mutter along, trying to fit in.
abraham		Friends, whence comest thou? Zed and Oh look at each other blankly.
zed		Sodom and Gomorrah? Never been there. But I've heard of them.
oh		Are they nice?
abraham		The Lord has cursed them for their abomination.
zed		 i didn't know that. What kind of abomination are we talking about?
abraham		They bow down before false Gods and worship graven images.
zed		 Abominable.
abraham		The men of the city are weak and soft, fat with rich food, intoxicated by strong drink.
zed		 Really. Tell me more.
abraham		Their women are whores; their shameless lust knows no bounds. They flaunt their flesh without shame and any man may have knowledge of them.
oh		 And where exactly are those cities?
zed		 We just want to know so we can avoid them.
abraham		 Accompany me. Abraham sweeps out of the tent. Zed and Oh jump to their feet and follow. Isaac tags along.
zed		Abraham, I'm a little worried about the city being destroyed.
abraham		Their fate is sealed. But for my faith and devotion, the self-same God has given unto me the whole of this land, from the Jordan to the Negev, from the river of Egypt to the great Euphrates. This did He grant to me and my seed. He raises his arms and spreads them wide.
abraham		For eternity.
abraham		 I and my kinsmen have vanquished our enemies by the mighty hand of the Lord, praised be He. Zed and Oh fake their way through a ritual response.
zed		His name is praise and love his whole graciousness--
oh		--of his wealthy bounty. Abraham gets a strange faraway look in his eyes.
abraham		Therefore, to signify my Covenant with the One True God, on this night will I circumcise the flesh of my foreskin, and of you and every male who dwells hereby.
isaac		Here we go again--
abraham		we will grasp the foreskins of our penises and cut therefrom the extra flesh.
oh		Couldn't we could just get our ears pierced?
isaac		 Okay, what did I tell you-- nuts?
zed		You know, Abe, it's late, and we've all had a lot to drink, and I know this whole foreskin thing sounds like a good idea now, but you may just want to sleep on it. we could always cut 'em off in the morning, but if we do it now, there's just no putting it back on later.
abraham		No. So it shall be written, so it shall be done.  Get my big knife. Zed and Oh both reflexively cover their crotches.
oh		You have any idea where we're going?
zed		To the city. I have to find Maya.
oh		The city! He said God's going to smite them with holy fire!
zed		And you're going to listen to him? You think he's more chosen than me?
oh		He seemed to know what he was talking about.
zed		Yes, and he also wanted to give his dick a little trim.
isaac		 I'm coming with you.
zed		You don't even know where we're going.
isaac		You're going to Sodom, right?
zed		No. Your dad specifically said Sodom and Gomorrah were evil.
isaac		Yeah, whatever. If I show you how to get there, will you buy me a bottle of wine?
zed		No! I told you, that's not where we're going.
isaac		Fine. Then we'll just stand here.
zed		Fine. They stand there for less than a beat. ZED                                                              Okay, you win. Take us to Sodom. Isaac takes a couple of steps to the top of a rise and points off in the distance.
their pov		Shining in the moonlight, the magnificent city of Sodom set atop a broad hill surrounded by high walls.
zed		I knew it was right around here.
isaac		Me and my friends sneak in on the weekends. We hang around, pick up on the babes, drink some wine, get wasted on killer hash--
zed		You shouldn't be smoking either.
isaac		Thanks, Grandpa, but I've been smoking for four harvests, so I think I'm okay. They start down toward the city.
oh		Gee, they're not open. We should probably come back later.
isaac		You just have to knock. They always let me in.  Go ahead.
oh		Me? Why do I have to knock? What if we're waking somebody up? Let's just get out of here.
zed		Where? Back to the penis-cutter? Besides, Eema and Maya might be in there. You want to get them out before the city's destroyed, don't you? Isaac impatiently grabs a big rock and starts banging on the door.
sentry		 Halt! Isaac stops a safe distance away and turns back to taunt the guards.
isaac		You gonna make me?  You and what army?
zed		 Get help! Tell your father!
isaac		 Yeah!
official white                           64.		ISAAC                                                            Like I'm really gonna tell my father I came with you to Sodom. So long, suckers! He takes off running.
zed		 I kinda get why his dad wanted to kill him. The sentries drag them through a small door cut into a corner of the city gates.
first guard		What's this now?
sentry		They were banging on the gate. Hebrews, from the look of them.
zed		We're not really Hebrews-- The guard smacks him in the mouth. ZED                                                              Okay. Lesson learned. No talking.
sentry		Should we wake the Sergeant?
first guard		You don't want to do that. He gets pretty mean when you wake him.
oh		Meaner than this? The sentry grabs Oh's nipple and twists. Oh SCREAMS loudly. The guards freeze at the sound of his scream and look nervously to a closed door at one end of the room.
sergeant		(from behind the door,
oh		Don't have to wait 'til morning.
zed		Hey! Why don't you pick on someone your own size? The sergeant drops Oh and turns to Zed. ZED                                                              Which would be difficult since there are probably very few people around who actually are your size-- He smacks Zed hard on the side of the head.
sergeant		 Get my big stick. I'll deal with the fat one first.
sergeant		 Welcome to Sodom. As he takes a big backswing, Zed and Oh shut their eyes and prepare for the worst.
cain		Wait! I know these guys!
cain		Brothers!! He embraces them. They look confused and doubtful, but relieved.
cain		You know, you guys are lucky that sergeant is a friend of mine. I let him sodomize me once right after I got here and he's been real nice to me ever since.
cain		wait a second. Do I detect a tone here?
zed		All right, honestly? You did sell us into slavery.
cain		 Whoa whoa whoa! Hold a grudge much? That was like a fortnight ago.
zed		That was way less than a fortnight. Half a fortnight, maybe.
cain		Give me a break! I was dealing with the death of a close family member and I needed some space. But now I realize that you guys are like my brothers. And it's so rare to find a brother that you love. Right? He embraces them.
zed		Check out that woman across the street! She's looking at us. The prostitute smiles at them as she sensuously peels a banana, then slides the whole thing unbroken into her mouth.
oh		We are so in! She's eye-knowing us like crazy.
cain		You're gonna love Sodom. Trust me. It's crazy. This morning, I almost got a handie behind that pita stand.
oh		Well, I kind of have a girlfriend-- not a girlfriend, yet, but a girl I like, so I shouldn't--
cain		Hey, what happens in Sodom, stays in Sodom. He takes a jug of wine from the stall of a WINE MERCHANT. The merchant just bows obsequiously and keeps his mouth shut. CAIN                                                             You know, if you guys are staying you should join the guards. The pay's not great, but there's tons of perks. I'm telling you, it's the only way to go. Cain grabs a piece of candy from a SMALL CHILD and stuffs it in his mouth. The child starts crying, Cain kicks her in the ass and she runs away.
oh		 Sorry.
cain		Come on, I'll introduce you to the captain.
zed		This is great! How do I look?
oh		You look good, but I think my hat's too big. They notice an OFFICER staring at them. OH                                                               Do you happen to know where I could get a smaller hat? The officer pops him on the head with a truncheon.
zed		So is this it? We just walk around?
cain		Pretty much. We just look for troublemakers and kick the living shit out of 'em.
zed		What kind of trouble?
cain		If we see a thief or a pickpocket, we just slap him around-- maybe cut off a finger or an ear, or the tip of his nose, lower lip-- anything you can just grab and slice in one fluid motion-- then we take our share of the loot and let him go. Mostly what we worry about are activist types, rabble rousers, getting people all riled up against the King or the Temple Priests. That's death for sure.
zed		Pretty harsh, isn't it?
cain		Harsh times, brother. We're in the middle of a famine. People are starving. If we don't get some rain soon, it could get ugly.  Beat it, you filthy beggar!
oh		You can't blame people for being hungry.
cain		Yeah, well, just remember, it's the palace that pays you, not the people.
zed		 Did you see that girl? I think she liked me! She looked right at me.
oh		Gee, I wonder why? The royal guard takes his foot off Zed's neck and they all get back to their feet.
zed		Who was she?
cain		The Princess Inanna. She's totally hot, but don't even think about it.
zed		Why not?
cain		Because she's royalty and you're scum? The entire crowd starts moving in the same direction as the royal entourage.
oh		Where's everybody going?
cain		To the temple. Let's go.  You have to see this.
cain		Everybody will be there.
zed		Hey, there she is! He starts edging toward the royal pavilion.
king		The Princess isn't eating?
inanna		I find it hard to eat when so many are hungry.
king		 Your concern is enviable.
queen		 You're not fat--
inanna		Yes, I am, mother! Those new linen pants you got me from Egypt make my ass look just huge.
queen		Well, you can't keep starving yourself.
inanna		Why not? Everybody else is starving-- present company excluded.
king		Careful, Princess. You may be my step-daughter, but these are dangerous times and those are dangerous words. I weep for the suffering of my people, but the spirit of rebellion is alive in the city and if necessary I will crush it with every means at my disposal.
king		 For the good of everyone who enjoys the favor of the throne.
inanna		Whatever. I'm just so incredibly bored.
high priest		 O El, lord of Heaven and Earth; Baal, the Sublime; Shapash, goddess of the sun; Hadad, the storm god, over-ruling son of Dagon, the bountiful, god of grain, our earthly sustenance--
zed		He makes his way to a position just below the royal pavilion and stares up at the Princess Inanna. She sees him looking at her but pretends not to notice.
inanna		Isn't that the idiot who was standing up in the street? Maya sees him, too, and starts fuming. The High Priest continues.
high priest		We come before you in humble supplication, invoking your blessing, the sweet rain which waters our fields, enriches the harvest, fills our storehouses, makes mighty the house of Ish-ka-bi- baal and the city of Sodom-- The King nods graciously. HIGH PRIEST                                                    --and feeds us, your children, with the bounty of your grace.
princess inanna		She glances at Zed again, but this time a slight smile crosses her lips. Zed grins back at her. The Princess whispers something to her handmaiden Maya and subtly points Zed out to her. Maya nods obediently, glaring at Zed, and starts fanning the princess a little too vigorously.
high priest		Accept now this humble sacrifice to the power and glory of your magnificence. He starts inspecting the Vestal Virgins, beautiful young women in diaphanous, almost transparent white gowns.
zed		What's happening?
guy		He's picking a virgin.
zed		What do they want a virgin for?
guy		To throw into the fire.
guy		 Offering to the Gods. There's a famine going on. If we don't make a good sacrifice, it won't rain. No rain, no harvest. No harvest, no food. Get it?
cain		It's pretty self-explanatory.
oh		You throw the virgin in the fire so it'll rain?
guy		Duh.
zed		Seems like a waste of a perfectly good virgin to me.
high priest		For the love of the Gods and the glory of their Creation, the great dome of Heaven, the green growing Earth, we commit this maiden to your Holy Fire. Another great cheer from the crowd as they throw her into the fire.
maya		 The Princess wishes to see you.
cain		 Her wish is my command.
maya		Not you. Him. 
zed		Me? Cool.  We're kind of a package deal. Can he come with?
cain		The three of us are inseparable. We're like brothers. Cain squeezes both their shoulders and gives Maya an artificial smile.
maya		The two of you follow me.
zed		 I'll try to put in a good word for you. Cain fumes as Zed and Oh head off with Maya.
maya		 This is Zaftig the Eunuch. You go with him. Oh is led away by the Eunuch as she takes Zed off in the opposite direction.
oh		Can't I go with him?
eunuch		Why? Is he your lover?
oh		 Hah! No? That would be weird.
eunuch		I serve the royal family-- little of this, little of that. I've been a palace eunuch since I was nine years old.
oh		You've been living here since you were nine?  I should look into that. How do you get to be a eunuch?
king		Six sacrifices in the last ten days and still no rain. What do the entrails predict?
high priest		 Well, the liver is streaked with gray-- that's not a favorable sign-- but the heart looks good. See how nice and red it is here. That's always a good omen.
king		What does it mean?
high priest		Usually it means that the sheep took very good care of itself, probably sticking to a high-fiber diet of grass and hay.
king		What does it mean for us?
high priest		Well, it could mean either a surprise visit from a former friend or sweetheart-- or that you're going on a long sea voyage! Wouldn't that be fun?
high priest		Because I'm your brother?
prime minister		Perhaps it's time for a new High Priest.
high priest		 And let that be a warning to you. Next time, I will hurl a lightning bolt at your face.
official white                            81.		HIGH PRIEST                                                     
prime minister		 Majesty, there's talk of revolution in the streets. Grain and oil are scarce, prices are high, starving peasants are pouring into the city looking for food--
king		Poverty has a bitter taste, but it's the flavor they were born to. It's the will of the Gods. The Queen and Princess Inanna are lounging on cushioned divans, listening.
queen		I don't think that's cruel. It's just practical. If everybody was rich, who'd wait on us? Maya approaches and whispers something to the Princess.
inanna		Good. See that he's bathed and dressed, then bring him to me. Maya frowns and exits. INANNA  This should be amusing.
zed		What do you think, ponytail or no ponytail? You know what?
official white              82.		ZED                                                            Hey, you made it! What's it like inside?
zed		Look, first of all, we're not actually brothers---
cain		Just like Abel. I oughta just bash your head in--
zed		Hey! You didn't let me finish. As soon as I get in there I'm going to talk to somebody and get you invited, okay?
zed		Feels like a hair-down kinda scene, don't you think?
maya		As you wish.
zed		Maya?! What are you doing here?
maya		I had no choice. I'm a slave, remember?
zed		I was going to rescue you! Really! In fact, we came here to find you.
maya		 Wait here until you're sent for.
zed		This wasn't my idea, you know.
maya		Of course not. You were just chosen again. Maybe after you and the Princess get together you can start thinking about someone beside yourself. She walks off before he can answer. Zed shakes his head, looks around the room, then STARTS walking past a row of "LIVING STATUES," semi-nude men and women on pedestals covered head to toe in gold body paint, frozen in heroic postures that show off their beautiful bodies. Zed looks closely at one beautiful nude "GODDESS", then furtively reaches out and fondles her breast. The goddess slaps his hand, then resumes her pose.
goddess		watch it, jerk!
zed		Hey! You're a real girl! That is so cool.
oh		 I'm not supposed to talk. I'm a statue.
zed		Yeah, you look so-- gold. How's it going?
oh		How's it going? I just had my whole body painted by a fat guy with no balls, and believe me, he was very thorough, if you know what I mean. How's it going with you?
zed		Not bad. Had a little rub and a scrub, now I'm up for some grub.
oh		That sounds nice-- for you.
zed		Hey! You'll never guess who's here- - Maya! She's working here-- and she looks great! But she's kinda mad at me. Oh scans the great hall looking for her and spots Zed's sister Eema, his crush, come into the room carrying a tray of food.
oh		There's Eema! Eema has been beautifully groomed and is now dressed as a household slave. She stops to serve some rowdy OFFICERS who take the opportunity to tease and fondle her. She tries to pull away but Sargon, the general, grabs her arm.
sargon		Stand still, wench! I want to see what's under that skirt. As he starts to lift her hem, she drops the whole tray of food on him. His cohorts laugh.
eema		I'm sorry! It was an accident.
sargon		That was no accident! Sargon grabs her and raises his hand to hit her. Zed steps in quickly.
zed		You! Slave girl! (he pulls her away from
eema		I'm sorry.
zed		Now go-- fetch! Wait by that-- skinny statue. I'll deal with you later. As Eema exits, Zed turns to the officers and shrugs. ZED                                                            Slaves-- what are you gonna do?
sargon		Try using a hot poker. That they understand.
zed		Ouch. Helpful hint. I will keep that in mind.
eema		We were sold to the palace. But I won't serve these people! I'd rather die!
zed		Keep that up and you will.
eema		What are you doing here?  Have you joined them?
oh		I haven't joined anything.  Does this look like fun? They both look accusingly at Zed.
zed		Okay, I know what you're thinking, but I'm just checking it out. We kept hearing that this place was so evil, but now that I look around I'm thinking maybe it's not all bad. There's a lot to learn here.
oh		What? Like human sacrifice?
zed		No! Like the wheel, for instance! That's pretty awesome-- the way it just goes around in a circle. And farming! And metal-- writing, money, pottery-- hot baths. Come on! Back in the village we thought sharpening a stick was a big breakthrough.
eema		 What happened to him?
zed		Look, I think I've been chosen to do something great with my life--
oh		Here we go again--
zed		--and I don't think it's hunting wild pigs and weaving baskets. Maya returns for Zed.
zed		I hope you don't think I'm interested in her.
zed		I'm just using her, Maya! It's part of my plan. I'm going to get you all out of here as soon as I can.
zed		 It's a secret.
maya		 The Princess awaits you.
zed		And I await her.  Stay out of trouble. I'll be back. He exits with Maya.
eema		He has no idea what he's doing, does he?
oh		I don't know. So much has happened. Sometimes I think-- She walks away. OH                                                               I love you.
high priest		 You there! Golden boy! Rub me with oil. The High Priest dismisses the young men, then stands and lets his rich outer robe fall to the floor. His chest, back and shoulders are incredibly hairy.
oh		I'd rather not, if you don't mind. I'm not really a slave. I'm a guard.
high priest		Then maybe you'd rather I speak to your commander and have you whipped to within an inch of your life. Or perhaps I whip you myself? How would you like that?
oh		Are those my choices?
high priest		I'd say so. The High Priest lies back down. Oh looks around, finds a pitcher filled with precious oil and dribbles some on the High Priest's hairy chest.
oh		How's that?
high priest		More.
oh		 That enough?
high priest		 That's good. Now rub it in.
high priest		Do it! Oh grimaces and starts gingerly massaging the oil into his hairy chest and shoulders. HIGH PRIEST                                                    Mmmmm, I love it. The sweet scent of precious oil. The oily-- oiliness. Eema walks by with a pitcher of wine and sees Oh massaging the High Priest. She gasps.
oh		No, really! I'm just-- rubbing oil on this man. She exits.
high priest		Mnum imam. I have an idea. Why don't we go back to my place and see what's under all that paint?
maya		Good luck.
inanna		Beautiful, isn't it? You can see Gomorrah just over the hill.
zed		I didn't know it was so close.
inanna		They're called the "twin cities."
zed		Looks pretty from up here, but some people think God is going to wipe them out because they're so evil.
inanna		 And what do you think? Am I evil?
zed		I don't really know you. But you don't look evil.
princess		Do you find me attractive?
zed		Well, yeah. I think you're-- incredible.
inanna		 I have body issues.
zed		No, you're perfect. Your face, your hair--  Your eyes are like the sea.
inanna		 My eyes are brown.
zed		Well, it's kinda dark. I took a shot. I know they're big, though-- and wet-- She pulls him close. ZED                                    Can I ask you one thing? What would a girl like you want with a guy like me?
inanna		I don't know. I just find you-- interesting. They say it's the will of the gods that some men should suffer while others rule-- that we're all just victims of our fate. And I believed that until this morning when I saw you standing up, alone, in the square. And I said to myself, finally here's one man who refuses to bow down to anything--
inanna		Yes, finally a man who has the courage to question the order of things--- a man chosen by the Gods to do something great.
inanna		 I know why. To bring you here-- to this place-- to me.
inanna		Come. She takes his hand and leads him away. A SHADOWY FIGURE watches them from behind a curtain.
high priest		My life is devoted to the service of the Gods and the good of the people. I take nothing for myself. He has a huge gold ring set with precious gems on every finger, and a gold tiara on his head studded with rubies and emeralds.
oh		That's so-- unselfish of you.
high priest		Yes, it is. It's just so-- lonely. Sometimes i hunger for the touch of another human being.
oh		So where does that hall lead to?
high priest		 Behind those doors is the Holy of Holies-- the earthly domain of the
94.		Official White HIGH PRIEST                            Gods-- a place so ineffably sacred, so powerful, that to enter is instant death for any mortal.
oh		Wow.  So who cleans it?
high priest		it needs no cleaning.
oh		No, of course not.  Kind of makes you wonder though-- the guys who built it, did they just die the minute they finished, or did the Gods give them a second to get out?
high priest		 I assume they finished it, then the Gods descended.
oh		Yeah, that's probably it.  So you're saying we can't go in?
high priest		I just told you! To enter is instant death! Only I can go in and only once a year after very elaborate purification rituals and days of special prayers and offerings.
high priest		Fine! Enough! I'm sorry I brought it up. Let's go.  Move. Move. He shoos him down the hall.
zed		 What are we doing here?
inanna		I want you to enter the Holy of Holies.
zed		Yes! Finally. Now you're talking! Should I enter it right here or should we go back to your bedroom? Does the Holy of Holies like to be entered from behind or--?
zed		The Gods are in there?
inanna		So they say, but the only one who ever goes in is the High Priest. They say it's instant death for anyone else to enter.
zed		Then why am I going in?
inanna		This is what you've been chosen for! To speak to the Gods and plead with them not to destroy the city. Then come back out and tell me what it's like inside.
zed		 Right-- right. Then again, if the rules say--
inanna		Do you always follow the rules?
zed		What is it with chicks always wanting guys to break the rules? You-all have this bad boy complex---- She kisses him fiercely on the lips.
inanna		Do this for me.
zed		I'm going in. He enters the Holy of Holies. A FIGURE darts between the columns and hides in the shadows. A beam of moonlight reveals the mark of Cain on his forehead.
zed		 Thank you, O-- Merciful ones, for-- not like-- killing me, and letting me receive the, uh, blessing of your holy-- godliness. He exhales and closes his eyes again, waiting for some divine response. Nothing comes.
zed		I was just looking for the bathroom.
oh		 Seize him! The guards arrest Oh as Cain steps up and takes hold of Zed.
zed		I wish I was upside down. Looks fun. Oh won't talk to him. ZED                                                              So this is it? We're not friends anymore? After all I've done for you?
oh		What have you done for me? I've been attacked by a cougar, I've fallen down a mountain, I almost had the tip of my thingy cut off, I've been greasing up the High Priest all night, and now I'm hanging upside down in a dungeon. And I have to pee real bad. All because of you. You call yourself a friend? Name one good thing you've done for me.
zed		I've helped you come out of your shell.
oh		 I really have to pee--
zed		Listen, I know I'm not perfect, and I may have made a few wrong turns, but you have to understand-- I'm a chosen. That's a lot of responsibility -- you can't even imagine.
cain		For the crimes of blasphemy-- (the crowd grumbles its
zed		Oh, come on!
cain		Shut up! For these and other crimes they may not actually have done yet but we're pretty sure they were thinking about, the prisoners will be stoned to death. The crowd roars as GUARDS stationed around the square pull canvas covers off big baskets of rocks and the people rush to grab stones to throw. Zed and Oh instinctively move closer to each other.
palace balcony		The King, Queen, High Priest and Royal Ministers observe the stoning from their vantage point above the square. Princess Inanna refuses to look.
king		Observe, my dear. It seems the least you could do, since it was you who lured him to his death. She reluctantly turns and looks at Zed.
inanna		I didn't intend for this to happen.
the square		The people move in and surround the platform on all sides, baseball-size rocks in their hands.
cain		 Anything to say before the sentence is carried out?
zed		 I just want to say this is really messed up--
zed		Can I make a suggestion?
zed		Why don't you just pick one person to throw? The crowd thinks that's not a bad idea and murmurs agreement. ZED                                                              In fact, don't you think it would be fair for us to get to pick the person who stones us? Cain looks doubtful, but the crowd thinks this is eminently fair.
crowd		 Yes! Ooh, me! Pick me! Me!
king		 What is that idiot doing?
zed		We pick him! Cain points at a BIG GUY, heavily muscled, eagerly waving his hand.
cain		Him?
zed		No, next to him! He points at a BOY, about nine years old and not very big.
cain		He's just a kid!
zed		So? You got something against kids? Zed plays the crowd which starts booing in disapproval. ZED                                                              This guy hates kids!
crowd		Yeah! What's he got against kids? Children are the future! Give the kid a shot! The kid! The kid! On the balcony, the King shifts uncomfortably, intimidated by the power of the mob. He nods to Sargon who signals to Cain.
cain		All right! All right! We'll try it. Kid! Grab a rock. The boy picks up a good-size rock. Zed turns to Oh.
zed		Good thinking, huh? They turn to face the boy, ready to dodge when he throws. The boy winds up and fires a major league fastball that smacks Oh right on the forehead. The crowd cheers. ZED                                                              Holy shit! That kid's got an arm!
cain		Okay, everybody on this side now! On the count of three! One-- two--
zed		Wait! I have a question for the King! The crowd goes silent. All eyes turn and look up to the palace balcony. ZED                                                             I entered the Holy of Holies and, lo, I did not die! Why? Because I am chosen by the Gods!
the crowd		 Spare the Chosen One! Spare the Chosen One! Spare the Chosen One!
oh		And his friend! Don't forget his friend! On the balcony, the King and his ministers hastily confer with the High Priest.
king		Could it be? Is he truly chosen?
high priest		I don't-- I suppose it's possible- I'd have to examine some new
king		Imbecile!
prime minister		Majesty, with respect, whether he's chosen or not is no longer the issue. To kill him now, given the public mood, could inflame the situation enough to prompt a radical "regime change," if you take my meaning. The King looks grimly at his ministers, all of whom have lean and hungry looks. Princess Inanna smiles contemptuously at him.
sargon		By order of the King, the sentence has been commuted. The crowd cheers. Zed and Oh exchange hopeful looks.
sargon		It is the judgement of our most merciful King that the prisoners are to be enslaved to toil at hard labor until they die of exhaustion or starvation.
zed		 Yes!
oh		Okay, you think that actually makes anybody work harder? It just makes them resent you. Is that what you want?
guard		 Faster!
oh		Can I just ask when lunch is? The whip lashes out again. Oh glowers at him and steps up the pace.
zed		 Don't tell me you're still mad about Maya. That's so over. I have a thing going with the princess now-- well, almost had a thing. I'm a slave now-- just like you.
marlak		No. You're not just like me.
zed		Okay. We do have our differences-- like about a cup and half of brain tissue-- but that doesn't mean we can't work together. Another GUARD approaches and whacks Marlak with his stick.
zed		You know, I'd like to, but I did something to my neck--  I must've slept on it funny-- those dungeon pillows are like rocks-- well, they are rocks-- so I should probably take it easy or I'll be no damn good for work tomorrow.
zed		Okay! But I should tell you, this isn't really my area. I'm just on a break from the mud department-- The Guard draws his short sword and raises it over Zed.
zed		 Okay, okay. I'm going. (to Marlak and
zed		How high you guys think we're going with this?
bricklayer one		Up to Heaven, I guess. That's how tall they usually build 'em.
zed		 That's ambitious.
bricklayer two		We worked on the Tower of Babel. Now that was a ziggurat.
bricklayer one		Incredible erection. Zed looks down at his crotch.
bricklayer one		The tower.
zed		Oh, right, the tower. Incredible erection. 
bricklayer one		See, the Egyptians are working on an entirely different concept. Four sides, slanting walls, pointy top.
bricklayer two		Like a pyramid?
bricklayer one		Exactly.
bricklayer two		Wow. Far out. Yet timeless in a way. A SLAVE CHILD approaches with a water bucket.
slave child		 Want some water? As the child offers him the ladle, Zed recognizes her.
zed		You're from the village, aren't you? The child nods. ZED                                                          Well, don't give up. You're going to get home someday. Marlak kicks Zed from behind, knocking him over.
marlak		 Who's going to take her there? The Chosen One? Marlak kicks gravel and dirt in Zed's face. Zed just lies there and takes it, feeling like he's failed everyone. Then he hears the beating of drums and trumpet fanfares coming from the temple square below.
guard		Get in line! Now! Move!
oh		Where're we going?
guard		To watch the sacrifice. The King demands it.
oh		Is that compulsory? Because I saw one when I first got here and it made me a little sick-- The guard's whip catches him across the back. OH                                                              Ow! Why don't you try using your words for a change?
cain		 At your service, my lady. Anytime, anywhere.
king		Are they booing me? How dare they!
cain		Your Highness, with all due respect, those were "Woos." They love you. They were "wooing" you. The King looks doubtfully at the hostile crowd.
sargon		All is in readiness, Majesty.
inanna		 What now? More virgins to sacrifice?
king		Yes, two, followers of the Chosen One, discovered by this loyal soldier. Cain bows to the King.
cain		Just doing my duty.
king		And one more to demonstrate our own faith and charity. The King stands and makes a proclamation loud enough for everyone to hear. KING                                                        For the good of the people.
queen		 You wouldn't dare!
king		Wouldn't I? If you like, I could arrange for you to join her. The Queen slowly sits back down. KING                                                             Burn her.- Sargon and Cain seize Inanna, but she shrugs them off and rises with dignity.
inanna		I'll see you all in Hell.
oh		 See the High Priest? I know him. Dear friend of mine.
the temple		Now the procession of SACRIFICIAL VIRGINS is led out by the HIGH PRIESTESS. Maya and Eema are among them, their hands tied. They look like they've been drugged. Oh spots Eema and Maya among the virgins.
big guard		That's far enough, slave. Oh stops right there, frustrated and frightened.
the temple		Inanna is led out last, now also having been drugged.
enmebaragesi		They're bringing out the women.
enmebaragesi		I see your sister, Eema--
oh		We have to do something! Somebody has to stop it. (turning to the other
zed		 I have to get down there.
marlak		All right. Without a moment's hesitation, Marlak grabs him and tosses him off the top of the ziggurat. He screams all the way down.
zed		Wow. Who saw that coming? Thanks, Marlak.
marlak		Now what? Zed looks around quickly, grabs the end of a long coiled rope attached to a big pulley, and hands Marlak the other end.
zed		 Lower me down. Without waiting for a response, Zed bravely jumps off the top of the ziggurat holding the rope.
zed		He's descending rapidly, rappelling off the side of the ziggurat. He looks up, expecting Marlak to belay him and slow him down.
high priest		We implore the great Gods of heaven to show us a sign that we may honor your divine will and be worthy of your blessing.
the ziggurat		Zed is still descending as the broken scaffolding starts to give way.
temple square		The whole crowd watches in amazement as the 250                 foot scaffolding slowly collapses and crashes to the ground, bringing tons of debris with it, sending up a great cloud of dust.
oh		He seizes the opportunity.
oh		A sign! It's a sign! The Chosen One comes! The other slaves and people in the crowd pick up his excitement.
crowd		The Chosen One! A sign from the Gods!
high priest		Yes! Well and truly, the Gods are with us-- The crowd drowns him out.
high priest		Burn them! Now! He grabs Maya and starts dragging her toward the gaping mouth of the idol and the raging fire within. She struggles but is too drugged to put up much resistance. He grabs the sacramental pitcher of oil and starts sloppily anointing her. HIGH PRIEST                                                     
maya		She sees him and starts to revive.
maya		Zed!
high priest		 What did you say?
high priest		 Still not getting it. Zed rolls his eyes in frustration and starts tentatively climbing down from the top of the idol. He jumps the last few feet and lands right in front of the fire, blocking the High Priest's way.
zed		I Said, 'I don't think so.'
zed		Whatever that last thing you said was.
oh		 I know him, too. Oh springs into action, attacking the big guard in front of him. The other slaves see that and start fighting with their guards, a genuine slave revolt.
the crowd		Guards start moving to help their comrades, but the spirit of insurrection takes hold of the crowd and people start grappling with the guards. A PLATOON OF REINFORCEMENTS comes double-timing into the square. Suddenly, A STOOPED OLD MAN throws off his cloak and pulls a sword. It's Abraham!
abraham		Death to the idolators! Abraham's small army of HEBREWS reveal themselves, draw their weapons and attack the reinforcements. The last Hebrew to unrobe is Isaac, who just stands there observing the growing chaos.
isaac		 Just fucking nuts.
cain		Tough guy, huh? You want a piece of me? Get ready to have your head bashed in!
king		I knew I could depend on your loyalty. The ministers all draw daggers from their robes and move in for the kill. KING                                                            
oh		 Hello, Eema.
eema		 Oh? He stares at her full red lips and big blue eyes.
oh		 Eema, you're my woman! You hear me?
eema		Okay.
oh		Really? It's okay? He pulls her into an embrace and kisses her hard on the mouth. Then, out of the corner of his eye, Oh sees a guard rushing at him. Oh whirls and falls off the platform, accidentally cutting the guards legs out from under him.
high priest		 Keep away!
zed		Let her go.
high priest		 No! The Gods demand a sacrifice! And you ruined it! He wrestles Maya even closer to the fire.
zed		 Why don't we just sacrifice something small-- a rabbit maybe. Or a duck. That'd be good, don't you think?
temple square		Everyone goes silent, stunned by the incredible turn of events. All eyes turn to Zed and Oh, now standing before them on the center stage of the temple.
zed		I'm the, uh, Chosen One, I guess, and on behalf of, well, the whole city, I want to thank the High Priest for his incredible sacrifice. That was really something, wasn't it? He starts clapping, then Oh starts clapping, and soon all the people in the square are applauding. At that moment a single drop of rain falls and hits Zed in the eye. He looks up, a few more drops, then a hard steady rain starts to fall. The people all look up in awe, then someone cheers and they all roar in celebration. Then the rain stops as suddenly as it started. The cheers die away, and confused, dissatisfied muttering begins. ZED                                                              People! Friends! Sodomites! Okay, that was a little confusing, wasn't it?
official white              124.		ZED                                                            Peace. The crowd stares at him blankly. Nobody knows what to make of it all. Then Marlak shouts loud enough for all to hear.
marlak		All hail the Chosen One! With that the crowd explodes into rousing cheers. In the midst of the crowd, Abraham looks around and scowls.
abraham		What am I? Chopped liver? At the altar, Maya, revived now, embraces Zed.
maya		You're incredible, you know that?
zed		That's what I've been trying to tell you. Zed and Maya, Oh and Eema stand there basking in the gratitude of the people as Inanna looks on.
isaac		Hey, babe. Ever made it with a circumcised guy? Marlak grunts at him and reaches for his knife. ISAAC                                                           
zed		 Well said, Marlak. You really have a way with words. They clasp hands.
marlak		We'll tell stories about you around the fire.
zed		Not much to tell, is there? Just an average guy who saw his destiny and had the courage to defy a powerful empire. No big deal. Oh is at the front of the caravan, giving orders, but no one is listening to him. Zed joins him. ZED                                                              Everybody ready?
eema		 I'll listen to you. Oh swells up with pride.
oh		 Come on. People are watching. The camel looks at him and slowly lumbers off. Oh sighs gratefully and signals the caravan to follow. As the great caravan moves off, Zed is left standing there with nothing but a long staff, and a bundle on the ground beside him to which is tied his sword, shield and helmet. Maya joins him.
maya		Where will you go now?
zed		Might head down to Egypt. I hear it's a happening kinda place.
maya		Are you going alone?
zed		Not necessarily. You want to come?
maya		I'll get my things. She gestures off and he sees a small train of camels and horses loaded with a ton of her personal possessions. MAYA  The Princess gave me a few gifts when she freed us.
zed		Traveling light, huh? Okay, here we go.
maya		 That's west.
zed		I knew that. Just wanted to see if you did. Zed grins and they start walking, passing a small herd of sheep and goats, tended by VEILED WOMEN, going in the opposite direction. As THE LAST OF THE SHEPHERD WOMEN passes, we notice something masculine about her build and posture. Zed nods politely to her, but she averts her eyes and turns away from him.
cain		 Peace--- brother. zed does a double take at the voice, shrugs, and walks off with Maya-- as a torrential rain begins to fall.
****Dialogues from script :Yes_Man.txt****

first draft		February 2, 2007
kath		You don't do anything more. You used to be fun. Now you hardly ever even leave your apartment.
carl		I'm here, aren't I?
kath		That's because it's New Year's Eve. You have to be here. Besides, it's not only social stuff. You used to have dreams. You wanted to go to business school, you wanted to work for the World Bank.
carl		So I discovered b-school's not for me. People grow.
kath		Growing is "X is not for me so I'll do Y." You went X is not for me and so I guess I'll sit on the couch for the rest of my life.
carl		 Well, look, this sucks, but I understand where you're coming from.
kath		This is the problem. You don't even care that I'm breaking up with you.
carl		Of course I care.   But I also understand.
kath		You shouldn't just understand. You should be mad. Or upset. Or sad. Or something.
carl		We're at different places in our lives. I get it.
kath		Your girlfriend of two years breaks up with you right before New Year's Eve and all you can say is "I get it?" It is completely within your right to call me a bitch.
carl		That would be inappropriate.
kath		 I can't believe I've been dating someone so emotionless.
carl		C'mere.   It'll be OK.
patrons		Three, two, one... happy New Year!
carl		Well, that was fantastic.   Good night, guys.
peter		You're going, already?
kath		We haven't even finished the song yet.
carl		I saw the ball drop and hugged all of you. Aliens didn't invade. Our computers are still working. What else could possibly happen?
lucy		Rooney might throw up.
rooney		It's true.     I'm very close.
carl		I see that happen like every night. Good night and Happy New Year.
lucy		How did he take the break-up?
kath		 Like a robot. Two years, and nothing.
lucy		I'm so sorry.
renee		Wanna rock out tonight?
carl		I don't rock out.
carl		No thanks.
carl		No.
carl		 Allow me to delete you, my liege.
norman		My teller reporting for duty.
carl		I'm not a soldier.
norman		You're a soldier on the front line of finance. 
carl		 I'm out of town.
bank customer		Hey, I need to speak to a loan specialist and there's no one on the floor.
carl		Sorry. Today I'm officially a greeter.
bank customer		But there's no one around.
carl		Someone might come. And if I'm not here, they won't be greeted.
bank customer		You're really not going to help me?
carl		Until I'm relieved as a greeter, my hands are tied.
chris parker		Hey, there. I'm Chris Parker. The new president of Southwest Bank. Just wanted to come by and personally introduce myself to every branch manager.
norman		That would be me.   Norman Calhoun.
carl		I'm Carl Kendall.   Just a teller.
chris parker		I was "just a teller." And now I'm "just president of the largest bank in the Southwest."  You need anything, you let corporate know. You hear?
norman		Definitely.
carl		 Yeah, if you're into fake breasts and German engineering.
norman		Check and check.
bank customer		Can you help me now?
carl		No, but this gentleman can.
norman		Think about my party, Carl!
carl		Will do!
carl		No thanks.
carl		No.
norman		Valentine party. Just wear something red!
carl		Can't.
carl		No.
norman		Dress as your favorite animal --
carl		Sorry.
norman		-- historical figure --
carl		No can do.
carl		Hello?
carl		I'm in bed. Why?       What happened? Did someone die?
carl		It's already 11:15.     I don't think I can make it.
peter		Oh, c'mon, Carl. No one's seen you for like forever. Please swing by?
carl		No.
alex		Carl Kendall?
carl		Alex Eberts? What's up, buddy?
alex		Too much! How've you been? I can't believe you're still working here.
carl		Where've you been? Norman's been heartbroken since you quit.
alex		Where've I been? You mean, where haven't I been? This year. Dude. I have lived. I climbed Mt. Kilmanjaro. I ate bat in Laos. I shot a cow with a bazooka. I'm not proud of that last one but I did it. How's the bank?
carl		Same old same old.
alex		See? That's the problem. That's everyone's problem. You've got one life. Why waste it on the same old same old?
carl		You kidding? Every day it's impossible not to throw rocks at the place.  Since you don't work here anymore, you want to throw a couple?
alex		Yes.
carl		What're you doing!   Stop that!   I was kidding!
norman		What do you think you're doing?  Alex Eberts! Is this an alumnae prank? I love pranks!
alex		Hey, Norman!
norman		 We have a situation.
alex		Go to the seminar, Carl!    You won't be sorry!
carl		What are you doing here?
peter		This is an intervention.    You've missed your last event.
carl		What're you talking about?
peter		Our engagement party.
carl		I'm sorry.     I'm just really busy.
peter		You're watching Hell's Kitchen. That's not even B-list reality TV.
carl		So I don't want to go out tonight. Maybe I have to wake up early tomorrow. You don't know.
peter		It's bigger than that. You and Kath broke up over a year ago and you still aren't dating anyone.
carl		What? So? I'm like a sexual camel. I only need it once every couple years.
peter		I don't mean to be harsh but everyone's moving forward. It's like you're still wearing a Timex while the rest of us each have entry level Rolexes.
carl		You wear a Rolex?
peter		Thanks for noticing. It's an Oyster Perpetual Yachtmaster. Sapphire crystal, self-winding. Four Gs. But that's not the point I'm trying to make.
carl		So I don't have an oyster watch. All you and Lucy and Kath do is sit around and talk about real estate and Crate and Barrel.
peter		What's wrong with Crate and Barrel? They have adorable stuff at reasonable prices.
carl		Forget Crate and Barrel. Maybe I'm just getting more mature. I don't need the lifestyle ever night.
peter		Lifestyle? You have to have a life to have a style of life. You never leave your apartment. You never meet anyone new.
carl		I hate meeting people.
peter		You've become a complete cave dweller.
carl		I am not a cave dweller. Just the other day, we all went to Summerfest and snuck backstage and you bet me I wouldn't steal something and so I stole a drumstick from that horrible Swedish hillbilly band. That's not very cave dweller of me.
peter		Just the other day?   That was seven years ago.
carl		But that's not possible -- I was already working at the bank by then.
peter		You had started there three years earlier. Why you've worked at that place for so long is beyond me. You had so much potential. You shouldn't be a teller. You should be the guy who tells the guy who tells the teller what to do.
carl		 Ten years... if I had had a child, he'd be toilet-trained by now.
peter		Actually, he'd be in fourth grade.
carl		 Whatever. I don't need this shit right now. I'm an adult man. I can live my life as I see fit. Can you please leave?
carl		 Have you been to this before?
carl		I don't know if I want that.
carl		Cool. Do you want anything from the refreshment area?
crowd		Yes!
sanji		I am sorry, my friends.      But I cannot hear you?
crowd		Yes!
sanji		Shhhhhhh.
sanji		Come on up, Future Yes Man!
carl		That's OK.     I'm just auditing.
sanji		You can't audit life!      Now get on up here!
carl		I'm cool right here.
sanji		Then I will come to you!
carl		Carl.
sanji		Let me guess, Carl. This was not your idea to come here, Carl.
carl		I wouldn't say that.
sanji		You can tell me, Carl.    We are all alone, Carl.
carl		It wasn't exactly my idea.
sanji		That's what I thought, Carl. And you think this is all bullshit, Carl, isn't that right, Carl?
carl		Honestly?
sanji		Is there any other way?
carl		This whole thing seems retarded.
sanji		But you are stuck in your life, Carl? Am I right?
carl		I wouldn't necessarily --
sanji		You once had a dream? You wanted to own a boat? A house? A fancy car? You wanted to a doctor, a lawyer... a business man?
carl		A little.
sanji		It's odd that ten years can pass just like that.
carl		It is.
sanji		I want you to do something for me, Carl. Tomorrow, I want you only to say yes. Can you do that for me? For one day, Carl?
carl		I'm not sure --
sanji		Please, Carl. Do it for me and you will be doing it for yourself. If you don't have the best day in ten years then I am the uncle of a monkey. Will you do it for me Carl? Just for a day?
carl		Yes?
sanji		Welcome to the world of yes!
carl		Yello.
carl		Don't worry about it.
carl		Oh, thanks for the invite, but...
sanji		Will you do it for me Carl?       Just for a day?
carl		 Yes.
peter		Excuse me?
carl		 Yes. I will come to brunch.
kath		 Morning, Carl. This is a surprise.
carl		Why?
kath		Because I've never seen you at brunch. Like ever.
carl		You kidding? I love brunch.
carl		Why do people wait an hour for breakfast? It's so hot and bright and we haven't even had coffee yet.
peter		If you don't want to be here, you don't have to be.
carl		Of course I want to be here. I love waiting an hour for eggs. It's fun. Although I will point out that you have sunglasses which is probably making this wait a lot easier.
peter		Oakleys, polarized lenses, indestructible. Two fifty but worth every penny.
waitress		Lowell, party of five.
carl		We were definitely before those Lowell people.
kath		I hate when people jump ahead.
carl		Why does no one ever say anything?
peter		If you want to be sitting so bad, why don't you say something?
carl		Yes.   I will.
waitress		No you weren't.
carl		Yes, we were.
waitress		I have the list, dude.   The list doesn't lie.
carl		Well, this time the list lied.
lucy		It's OK, Carl. It's just brunch.
carl		 You all know that we were up before you! And you have to live with that knowledge through your delightful brunch!
peter		What's going on with you?
carl		I just want transparency in terms of the brunch seating order.
kath		Great. Now we're going to get into a fight.
brunch dude		We talked about what you said... you're right. You guys were here before us. Sorry we didn't pipe up sooner. We cool, brother?
carl		 Yeah. We cool.
lucy		It's a two bedroom duplex with harbor views. It'd be perfect for you Kath.
kath		Washer/Dryer in the building?
carl		 I didn't realize you were looking to buy a place. I thought you and I would be renters to the end.
peter		She's a fancy lawyer making bank. It's about time she was buying.
kath		 Shut up.
peter		 What're you looking at?
carl		Bacon and eggs.
kath		How unadventurous.
carl		I don't want an adventure first thing in the morning.
waitress		I just want to tell you about my specials. We have a double fruit burnt sugar waffle. Any of you interested in that?
carl		Yes.
waitress		Alrighty. Then, on the savory side, we have a smoked whitefish omelet with hash browns on the side. Any takers?
carl		Yes.
waitress		 You want both?
carl		Yes.
waitress		Would you like toast with that?
carl		Yes.
waitress		Any side?    Bacon.
carl		Yes.
waitress		Sausage.
carl		Yes.
waitress		Turkey sausage?
carl		Yes.
waitress		A side of our famous maple pancakes --
carl		Yes.
waitress		Wow.    Someone's really hungry.
carl		Yes.
waitress		Coffee or juice?
carl		Coffee.    And juice.
waitress		We also have smoothies?
carl		Yes.
waitress		Is that all?
carl		 Yes.
waitress		 What would you all like to order?
waitress		Would you like some pepper?
carl		Yes.
waitress		Would you like more?
carl		Yes.
peter		I don't think I've ever seen a waiter tap one of those pepper mills.
carl		I'm just addicted to the stuff. Chinese cultures say it's good for digestion.  You're all welcome to have some.
lucy		That's... OK. Do you want a bite of mine?
carl		 Yes.
peter		Because you ordered a latte.
carl		I don't think... there's any reason why I shouldn't? On a Saturday there's nothing I like more than the inside of a bank.
carl		Yes.
carl		All of them please.
renee		Want a flier? Oh, it's you.    Never mind.
carl		Of course I'll take a flier.
renee		I knew after a year and a half of wearing you down, you'd give in. I'm Renee by the way.
carl		Carl.
renee		Carl. Cool. I like to thank everyone personally who comes to our performances. It gives it a nice intimate touch. See you soon Carl.
norman		Morning, Carl. Thanks for coming in and being part of the Saturday banking experience. Oooh, Munchkins. Are those for the office, you dirty devil?
carl		Yeah. I just though it would be a fun way to lighten things up.
norman		 You didn't approve this with petty cash.
carl		I spent my own money on them...
norman		Kidding! Munchkins are always approved. Although, I can't reimburse you.  Today is free Munchkin day. That's right! Free Munchkin day!
bank employees		Carl rules./You're the best./Finally I have a reason to live today.
carl		How may I help you?
bank customer		I need to speak to a loan specialist.
carl		While loans aren't normally in my jurisdiction, I'd be happy to help you.
bank customer		I want to refi my house and spend the capital on my personal business. I see you've got a 5.25 7 year ARM, but over at Chase they're offering 5.00 7 year ARM. Can you refi lower, like at 4.85 par example, or am I going to have to bring my beeswax elsewhere?
carl		Yes.
bank customer		Yes?   That's it?
carl		Yup.   What's your business?
bank customer		Selling beanie babies online.
carl		Adorable.
bank customer		More like highly profitable.    I've crunched the numbers.
carl		Let me just get final approval on this.
norman		You're a teller, not a loan specialist.
carl		No, I know, so if you think this is a bad idea for a loan that's fine but can you please tell her yourself?
norman		What's this?
carl		Her business plan.
norman		Inta-maresting. My grandma loves beanie babies. Although unfortunately, we have a minimum loan floor of ten thousand dollars. She only wants five.
carl		That's silly. How're you supposed to start a tiny business if you can't get a tiny business loan?
norman		I don't make the rules, I just break `em.  I don't break them. I just wanted to rhyme. If she wants us to loan her ten thousand or more, great. Otherwise, I think her only option is a loan shark.
bank customer		 So, what'd he say?
carl		Do you maybe have any interest in borrowing ten thousand?
bank customer		I can't afford the payments on ten. You can't do five thousand? This is the fifth bank I've been to. Please?
carl		Of course we can.    One moment please.
norman		Oooh, thank you. Feed the addiction, am I right?
carl		It's approved.
bank customer		Thank you so much! I promise I won't let you down, Mr. Kendall. On me.
carl		Thanks, Marge. We don't like to make other customers jealous so can we keep this between you and I?
bank customer		Of course.     Aren't you just a dear?
norman		Carl, could I see you for a moment?
norman		Earlier today, you showed some initiative. And I loved it. What do you say to a permanent spot at the loan desk?
carl		That seems like a lot of responsibility.
norman		We need a loan specialist a lot more than we need a teller and greeter. Besides, you'd have a
carl		Grand?
norman		No, dollars. What is this Darfur?  Save the cheerleader, save the world.
carl		Next Saturday... sounds great.
norman		Don't dress as Hiro.    I got dibs.
carl		Wouldn't think of it.
rooney		Carl Kendall? Out in the world? Are you some kind of ghost? Am I having a religious vision?
carl		Believe it. Because this guy just got a promotion.
lucy		Congrats, Carl!
rooney		Well let's get you a beer. You want a 20 ouncer? I'm just joking - -
carl		Yes.
peter		A normal-sized beer is fine with me.
lucy		I think I'm done actually.
rooney		Two twenty ouncers and one tiny, little beer, barkeep.
bartender		Please don't call me that.   We're not in the middle ages.
rooney		 I can't believe you're out here. I'm giddy. I feel like a child whose best friend has strict Chinese parents who never let him come out and play but now his Chinese parents are away for the Chinese New Year. You have any interest in pounding this shit?
carl		Why not?
rooney		What do you say we have another?
carl		Yes.
rooney		You are a beast!
lucy		Well, it's been fun watching you guys recreate freshman year, but Peter and I have some furniture errands to run.
carl		Have a good day yuppifying your lives.
peter		We need a sofa, Carl.     We're not buying a second home.
rooney		Whatever, yuppy sellouts.
lucy		It was good seeing you.    You should come out more often.
carl		 Please don't leave me here with him.
carl		I have not been this drunk in years! The room is spinning in a bad way!
rooney		Barkeep! Two more double pints s'il vous plait!
bartender		That was the last `barkeep.'   I am cutting you off.
rooney		Well fortunately you're not the only game in town! Let's go to some place with class.
carl		Where's the class?
rooney		They wear uniforms here.
carl		Yes.
rooney		I am hot.
rooney		You gotta do karoake.
carl		Sign me up, bitch.
carl		 Just tell me what you've got to say to me, I've been waiting for so long to hear the truth, It comes as no surprise at all you see, So cut the crap and tell me that we're through. Now I know your heart, I know your mind, You don't even know you're being unkind, So much for all your highbrow Marxist ways, Just use me up and then you walk away, Boy you can't play me that way.
brutish boyfriend		Were you just flirting with my girlfriend?
carl		 It depends -- is that your girlfriend?
brutish boyfriend		Yes.
carl		Then yes.
hot girl		Hey, c'mon. Be cool.    He was just screwing around.
brutish boyfriend		Let me handle this, Crystal.  So, you want to have sex with my girlfriend?
carl		Yes, I do.     Very much.
brutish boyfriend		Are you starting a fight?
rooney		C'mon, Carl, let's go --
carl		Yes, I am.
brutish boyfriend		Then bring it.
carl		I will.
brutish boyfriend		What was that?
carl		Me bringing it.
rooney		You popped that guy!    He didn't know what hit him.
carl		You do not cross Carl Kendall.
hot girl		Hey. I'm sorry about Domingo. He likes to think he's my boyfriend but he's not. You're cute.
carl		Yes.
hot girl		My fiance called. He was like really sorry about last night.      I have to go.
carl		Your fiance?
hot girl		Domingo. The guy who punched you in the face.
carl		I thought you said you two weren't even dating?
hot girl		We were broken up last night.      It was fun hanging out.
carl		Hi... is there a Sanji Gupta staying here?
carl		I'm Carl.    The guy from yesterday.
sanji		Of course, of course!      Please come in!
carl		No thanks. I just wanted to thank you for that inspiration.
sanji		Fantastic. So how do you plan on continuing with your journey?
carl		You know, just living every day to it's fullest. And, like, learning to continue to experience life or whatever.
sanji		Outstanding, Carl. Except for one THING:  You are completely bullshitting me!
carl		I just said I'm going to keep experiencing life. I thought you'd be happy.
sanji		You're like a cigarette addict, Carl. Except you're addicted to boredom. On the way in here, Carl, I offered you a coffee and you refused. Perhaps that would have been the most delicious cup of coffee you would have ever had. Who's to say? Not you, Carl, because you said no! Anyone can quit smoking for a day. But for a lifetime? No.
carl		So what should I do?
sanji		Behold, Carl, -- the Maniyesto.
carl		 The yes cannot distort the truth.
sanji		 You cannot say "Yes, the world is flat" because that is an untruth.
carl		 Who should that be?
sanji		A close friend who will not tell a soul.
carl		 What is that?
sanji		If someone asks you "do you want to go to the art museum" and you do not want to, you may not use this lack of desire as an excuse to not go. And finally, a warning.  What do you say?
carl		I say... yes.
sanji		And here.
carl		Is this like a legal document?
sanji		Kind of. And finally, my friend, please hold out your hand.
carl		AHHHHHHHH!
sanji		That should heal by New Year's. Until then, you are a Yes Man.
peter		For a whole year?
carl		Yesterday I got promoted and beat up and hooked up with this chick and I have a massive headache today and I still might throw up, but I don't care because it was the best time I've had in like forever. Not to mention finding out that, despite what you might think, smoked whitefish in an omelette is delicious, even if covered in a thick layer of pepper.
peter		But for a whole year?
carl		You don't   understand. I got promoted.    Do you know how long I've been   waiting for some kind of financial   step forward? I said `yes' and   it arrived.
peter		Well, someone sounds like they're yuppifying their life.
carl		Excuse me for wanting an appliance in my kitchen besides a hot pot.
peter		There's no way you can do this for a whole year.
carl		That's where you come in.   You're my "Yesponsor."
peter		Yesponsor?
carl		Like in AA. I need you to hold me to it.
peter		You aren't going to last for more than a week.
carl		I look forward to proving you wrong.
peter		Cavalli. Silk and cotton blend. Seven fifty.
lucy		My girlfriends are being such bitches. It's been two weeks and no one's offered to throw me a wedding shower.
peter		That's too bad. I'm sure someone will offer.
lucy		 Hey, you want to throw my wedding shower?
carl		 I'd be happy to.
lucy		I was kidding. Wedding showers are thrown by girls.
carl		That's sexist. Please.      I insist.
lucy		Thanks.    That means a lot to me.
rooney		That was some good times last night. You back for more?
carl		Yes.
rooney		I've got no cash. You mind spotting me and my buddies?
peter		Sorry, didn't bring my wallet.
carl		 Yes.
carl		Black coffee, large.
carl		 To have a wonderful day?    I would.
renee		Hey, give that back.    You already took one.
carl		What's the hurt in taking another?
renee		Destroys the Earth. Also, they cost me ten cents a copy. Besides, are you even going to come?
carl		Of course.     I couldn't say `no.'
renee		See you tonight, Carl!
carl		Dear deposed King of Nigeria. I would love to help you anyway I can with your confidential transaction. Please let me know what I can do. Yours, Carl Kendall.
carl		Yeah.
carl		Where did you hear that?
carl		I told her not to say anything.
carl		I might have some stuff to pawn./I will definitely check out your gun selection./I would like to learn Korean.
carl		 [Hello, my name is Carl.   What is your name?]
renee		Hello Jake, Penelope, Carl and Rodrigo. We are the Flying Buttresses!
bartender		Nice, show Renee. One virgin mint soda coming right up.
renee		I don't think I hit a high enough octave in Fairy Dream Song.
carl		I disagree. I think you hit some pretty high octaves.
renee		But I can hit like way higher.  Like check this out. I think this tone might be more appropriate for my water nymph song?
carl		 From the high level of testosterone.
renee		I've got to write a song about that. I could call it...
carl		"Big Balled Water Nymph"?       It's a working title.
renee		I like it.     I can work with that.
leeore		Um, excuse me, but we have to clear the stage.
renee		I gotta clear.  Unless of course, you want to help?
carl		Sure.   I love clearing stages.
renee		Well, thanks for coming, Carl.      I must bid good night.
carl		So early?     It's only 8:00?
renee		I lead a jogging, photo group for people who want to both exercise and practice photography.
carl		You're a photographer too?
renee		Amateur, but yeah.    I show every Friday. 
carl		What time do you leave?
renee		Five.   So we can see the sunrise.
carl		Wow. I haven't seen the sunrise maybe ever.  I guess now I'll be doing that tomorrow.
renee		Oh, it's beautiful. Makes great photos. Nice meeting you, Carl.
flier guy		You interested in learning Spanish?
carl		Hey, Kath. Would you like one? I'm going to learn Swahili.
kath		Maybe next week. There's someone you should probably meet. Carl, this is Seb.
carl		Seb?    What is that?   Swedish?
seb		Yes.
carl		You're on a date then?
kath		Yeah.   Met him at my firm.
carl		He's very tall.
kath		I guess so, yeah.
carl		Well, it was nice meeting you, Seb. So I'll be going.
seb		Unless... you'd like to join us?
carl		I'd love to. Join you guys.
kath		What?
carl		So, how did you guys meet?
kath		I told you. Through the firm.
waiter		Would you like to order some wine?
carl		Oh, this is good.  You know. Because it sounds like "Pizza Hut" only it's a hat shop.
seb		Look, Carl, why don't you just eat your fish and fuck off?
carl		Shit.
carl		 Dear Omar, While I appreciate the gravity of your situation, perhaps a goodwill branch is in order. Could you perhaps loan me a million and take it out of my final cut? Then I will happily send you my bank details. Sincerely, Carl.
carl		Good morning.
renee		Wow.     You look tired.
carl		Well, it is five in the morning.
renee		Mammals are meant to be up at dawn. It's how we're built biologically. Where's your camera?
carl		I thought I'd use my phone.
renee		Awesome idea. So light.
carl		That's what I thought.
renee		Let's hit it.
renee		Alright!    Enough standing around!
iranian woman		It was delightful meeting you, Carl.
carl		As it was meeting you Farinoush.
iranian woman		Although I must say I was surprised to discover that you are in no way Persian. Nor are you six foot two. You should change that on your profile.
carl		Will do.    Should I call you?
iranian woman		Sorry, I want a tall guy.
lucy		Who was that?
carl		Farinoush Azzam. Great girl, but I don't think we're right for each other.
lucy		How'd you meet?
carl		PersianWifeFinder.com.  Let's talk wedding shower.
lucy		So, I know it's just a wedding shower, so who cares really? And it's like so lame? But I've made an appointment at a stationery store. Are you going to totally kill me?
carl		 You kidding? I love stationery.
stationery proprietess		This one is nice. I especially love it in cream.
lucy		Ooooh, pretty. What do you think?
carl		Looks good to me.
lucy		 Thanks for your opinion.
stationery proprietess		It's always difficult to get the husband-to-be's opinion.
lucy		 I'm not marrying him.
carl		I'm just helping throw the shower.
stationery proprietess		Oh. What's the party going to be like? Sometimes it helps to know that before you pick an invitation.
lucy		Nothing special. Just hors d'oeuvres and wine.
carl		Look at this -- Bridal Bingo. What's Bridal Bingo?
stationery proprietess		It's bingo, except you yell out embarrassing facts about the bride and whoever fills their card first wins.
carl		That sounds fun.
lucy		I'm not doing Bridal Bingo.
carl		How about a calendar shower?
lucy		Can we concentrate at the task at hand?
carl		Do you even know what a calendar shower is? Maybe a calendar shower is awesome.
stationery proprietess		Every guest gets assigned a month and brings a gift that the bride and groom can use during that month.
lucy		That's kind of cute.
carl		I think that's really cute.
stationery proprietess		The bride and groom ride in on a white stallion.
carl		You have got to do that.   Like it's not even a choice.
lucy		That seems a little extreme.
carl		You only get married once.
stationery proprietess		Your friend happens to be right.
lucy		You're really good at this. You mind helping me with the wedding invitations?
arab guy		I love cell phones. I breathe cell phones. I own, myself, thirty-five cell phones. My brother is an idiot and he's selling cell phones hand over fist. What do you have? A Nokia 9850?
carl		How much do you need?
arab guy		Eighty five hundred.
carl		Done.
jittery guy		Just give me the cash.
carl		You promise you'll pay it back?
jittery guy		Basically.
norman		May I speak to you, Carl?
norman		I know what you're doing.
carl		What am I doing?
norman		You're loaning below our minimum.
carl		I'm sorry, but it's absurd that if you need a small amount of money you have to go to a loan shark. Only rich people can pay back loans over ten grand. A bank's job is not to just help the rich. It's to help anyone with a dream achieve it.
norman		I know. These microloans are pretty interesting. So I'll you spearhead a little pilot program at the bank.
carl		Thank you so much.
norman		If corporate finds out, you're the one who's getting fired. So keep it quiet.
carl		What do you need a loan for?
rooney		I don't. I was wondering if you were around tonight to help me move?
carl		Why don't you hire movers?
rooney		Because it's cheaper to ask you.
rooney		Can you carry the fridge alone?
carl		 Yes.
rooney		You OK?
carl		Yes.   Do you want to help at all?
rooney		I wish I could, but I hurt my back trying to move that fridge.
rooney's mom		I'm going to miss you, baby.
rooney		And I'm going to miss you, ma.
rooney's mom		I can't watch you go.
carl		Where are you moving?
norman		We need a volunteer to think up local marketing ideas
carl		 [I like to drive with my mother.]
norman		We need someone to be a weekend cashier.
tony		Do you want to change your life through Mahayana Buddhism?
carl		I'm kind of in a rush...
tony		My place is right around the corner.
tony		It is only through the four noble truths and the destruction of desire that we can end suffering.
carl		Well, that's really neat.  So, thanks for the books and the jasmine tea and the vegan curry, but I have to go --
tony		Do you like Dionne Warwick?
carl		It was really great meeting you --
tony		C'mon, Carl. Shake your groove thang.
carl		I really have to go.
tony		Want to go into my bedroom?
carl		 Yes.
carl		Do you have any candles?      I just love candles.
tony		Sure.
carl		How about wine?       Like a bottle of Beaujolais?
tony		I only have Beaujolais Nouveau.
carl		I have herpes.
tony		Upstairs or downstairs?
carl		Downstairs?
tony		Front door or back door?
carl		It's a swinging door!
tony		Just give it!
peter		What's with the kitten?
carl		I just adopted her. If you're interested, they're giving them away in front of Petco.
peter		I don't want a kitten.
carl		Neither did I.
peter's secretary		Andy Solomon on line two.
peter		Hey, asshole, we're not talking until you sign that goddamn contract.
carl		Seems like a nice guy.
peter		She was upset you went on her date.
carl		He asked me to join them.
peter		I think you're taking this too far.
carl		I have no choice. I'm a yes man. I must say yes. If Seb asks me to join them on their date, I must. If some dude asks me for a loan I have to give it to them even if it's clearly never going to be paid back. If a guy asks me into his bedroom, I must hook up with him.
peter		You hooked up with a dude?
carl		It's like hooking up with a strong woman. I honestly don't see what the big deal is.  I am guided by yes. Yes has become my superpower. And let me tell, yes is turning out to be a pretty sweet deal. Now if you'll excuse me I'm late for Korean class.
peter		You hate Korean food.
carl		That's no reason to write off an entire, vibrant culture. See you later, buddy.
carl		You really are displaying that.
renee		That's probably my best photo ever. My collages aren't bad. But personally, I think I excel at pottery.
carl		Wow. That's really big. How do you have time for all this stuff?
renee		How do you have time to come to every one of my rocks shows even the one in Fairfield county that was seventy-five miles from here? I almost skipped that one.
carl		You gave me the flier, so I had to go.
renee		At first I thought you were a weird stalker and I was scared. But now I think you're just a really shy dude with a crush. And while it's been suspenseful to see when/if you'd ask me out --
carl		Do you want to go out sometime?
renee		Yes, I would.
carl		By the way, I do other stuff besides follow you around.
renee		Like what?
carl		I take Korean.
renee		In that case, what do you say we do Korean?
renee		Do you want any more squid hot pot? It's really good here.
carl		I think I'm good.   To have some more.
renee		What do you mean?
carl		Like, do you want to open a store?
renee		Where I can sell my photos and pottery? Of course not. They're terrible.
carl		They're not terrible.
renee		Yeah, they're awful.
carl		I think you're being hard on yourself --
renee		I'm not asking for sympathy. My voice is way too high-pitched, my pottery looks like poo, and my photos are blurry and subjectless. But who gives a shit? Not everything needs a goal. The world is a playground. You know that as a kid but then somewhere along the way everyone forgets. 
carl		When?   Like in a couple years?
renee		I bought a ticket for four months from now.
carl		People always talk about that, but you're actually doing it.
renee		Honestly, I'm terrified.  How about you? Do you like the bank?
carl		It's lame, but you know, it's pretty funny. My boss Norman always throws theme parties.
renee		So if it's lame why do you work there?
carl		Because... it's actually not lame.  I just gave the answer I've automatically given for years. I'm actually enjoying the bank for the first time maybe ever. I started this pilot program that gives out microloans.
renee		What's that?
carl		Like say you need three hundred bucks to pay for paint so you can start a house painting business. Rather than paying a loan shark who charges you 300%, now you can come to Southwest Bank. Whatever. It's kind of dorky.
renee		That actually sounds really cool.
carl		 [We are very fat. But can I please have this food made mobile?]
renee		So, what do you say we hit this crazy party?
carl		Funny, not crazy.    My boss is white noise.
renee		White noise?
carl		You know, like totally boring.
renee		I don't know anyone who's totally boring. Crack a person's shell -- there's always something creepy underneath.
norman		Carl! Welcome. Or should I say, uerukamu!
renee		What's going on?
carl		I wouldn't bother.
norman		You didn't tell her? This is a dress-up as your favorite character from Heroes. Do you watch?
renee		I currently don't have a television.
norman		I don't know what to do with that information. There are drinks, chips, dips, various and sundry noshes. I entreat you to make friends. Let's get this party started!
carl		We don't have to stay long.
renee		It's a party. Let's socialize.
carl		I'm Carl.     This is Renee.
khatoon		Hey.     I'm Khatoon.
carl		I don't think so.
khatoon		Are you listed on Persianwifefinder.com?
carl		So, how do you know Norman?
khatoon		Karate Club.
norman		Baked Lays people!   It is on!
carl		You're in a karate club?
party guests		Norman!    Norman! Norman!
renee		 Told ya there was something weird under that white noise shell.
khatoon		You're totally on persianwifefinder.com.   SultanCarl.
carl		 Khatoon, Norman! You guys should spar!
jason		Well, isn't that cute? We've got a full match on. Hey, I'm Jason.
carl		I'm Carl.    What do you do?
jason		Work for the INS.
carl		Cool.
jason		I hate it. Everyday I have to dash some poor guy's dream. I'm a professional dream dasher.
carl		It can't be that bad.
jason		The other day, I turned down a guy who had literally been a professor at the University of Cuba.
cuban professor		What? But I've already lived here for five years. I've received a steady paycheck and paid taxes for five years. I speak fluent English. I can't go back.
jason		I'm sorry but no can do.
cuban professor		I've passed the citizenship test ten times. I bet you couldn't pass that test.
jason		You're probably right.
cuban professor		Do you know the location of the Spanish-American war?
jason		Spain?
cuban professor		No.
jason		America?
cuban professor		No.
jason		 Spainerica?
cuban professor		You are an insult to your country.
carl		So did you let him in?
jason		I sent him back to Cuba.       I send them all back.
carl		If you hate your job so much, why do you do it?
jason		Because I have to eat.
carl		 You're a no man.
jason		Excuse me?
carl		 I'm not supposed to tell anyone this except for my Yesponsor, but you can change your life. I've changed mine. If I tell you how, will you promise not to tell anyone?
jason		 Yeah, sure, whatever.
carl		I say yes. To everything.    Say Yes More. It's that simple.
jason		That's the most retarded idea I've ever heard.
renee		What did I miss?
carl		 Nothing. Do you want to go?
renee		You work for the ASPCA?
carl		I just love pets. This is Veronica, King George, Owen, Carl jr., Carl the III, Carl IV, Bubbles, Greedo, Cat 1, Cat 2 and Cat 3. At the end there, I got kind of bored of naming them.
carl		You don't need to do that.
renee		You have a lot of Mexican Viagra.
carl		I have a congenital heart thing it helps. And it's cheaper than the stuff that's made here.
renee		You better not be a criminal. Because one time I dated this guy who jacked cars for a living and I did not enjoy living on the edge as much as I thought I would.
carl		It's cheaper to buy in bulk.    Is that a crime?
renee		A hundred boxes of Mexican prescription drugs borders on something vaguely criminal.
carl		Yes.
rooney		You must be Renee. I have heard so much about you. Can I watch?
renee		No, you can't watch.
renee		You know what I would love?    A massage.
carl		I give great massages.
renee		Oooh.   Yeah. Oooh, right there.
carl		How much does a Schwinn cost?
large man		Three hundred fifty three dollars. It'll really help me get my one hour delivery business off the ground. I've tried on foot. I only have a two mile radius.
carl		Done and done.
norman		Hey, the boys upstairs are here to speak with you.
carl		Really?   Because I have a thing at one...
norman		He asked for you specifically. Ixnay on the small loans-ay.
chris parker		Carl Kendall? I'm Chris Parker. President of Southwest Bank.
carl		I actually met you when I was just a teller.
chris parker		 Pet-a-Puppy day. Free cookie day. Free half hour on the bank's punching bag day. You've upped walk-in traffic by 35%. Not only that -- you've also taken charge of corporate day care. I like a team player.
carl		Thank you.
chris parker		But then I got suspicious. What drives a man in his mid to late thirties who's still at the absolute lowest level of our corporate family? Generous helpfulness? Or raging revenge?
carl		Generous helpfulness?
chris parker		Which is when I got the numbers from your loan desk.
carl		Uh huh.
chris parker		You've given out over 682 below minimum loans. One of them was literally for fifteen dollars and eighty seven cents.
carl		Janice Peabody's ant farm rental business.
chris parker		How do you explain yourself?
carl		I've started a microloan project. I figure that if someone needs less than ten grand why should they go to a loan shark when they can come to a legitimate banking institution?
chris parker		Because the paperwork makes any profit moot. Unless you're raiding our coffers.
carl		No.   I wouldn't do that.
chris parker		I would if I could, so why wouldn't you?
carl		Thank you.
chris parker		You're the kind of person we want in corporate. We're taking some clients on a golfing trip. You golf?
carl		Yes.
chris parker		You free tomorrow?
carl		Yes.
chris parker		Of course you are. I better watch my back around you, Carl Kendall. Soon you'll be taking my job. See you on the links.
lucy		What happened?
carl		I'm sorry -- bank meeting stuff.
lucy		I've never heard of a Wedding Shower cake.
carl		You have to have one. Modern Bride calls them a necessity.
lucy		I'm sorry, it's just you've been so great at all this while my husband- to-be has been completely absent. Do you have time to grab a cup of tea?
lucy		Is he scared to get married?    Is that why he doesn't care?
carl		You know Peter. He's a man's man. He cares, he just doesn't know how to show it.
lucy		You know how to show it. A wedding is a huge deal. I'm so scared.
carl		You guys are perfect for each other.
lucy		I know that and yet I'm still so scared.
carl		Maybe if you're just honest with him about how you're feeling it'll be OK.
lucy		He can be just so closed off.
carl		Sorry, the bank, you know?  The UFO conference is tonight? No, that's fine, I'll definitely be there.
lucy		You've been so good to me. I've really come to depend on you. I want to pay you back.
carl		Not necessary.
lucy		Peter tells me you might have some disposable income these days.
carl		For some reason, the bank keeps promoting me.
lucy		If you want to look at some open houses, I'm happy to waive my fee.
lucy		So this is at the very top end of what you could probably afford. Are you interested?
carl		Yes.
lucy		Are you sure? I mean, this is the first place you've looked --
carl		Yes.    I've got to run.
lucy		I'm looking forward to meeting Renee tonight.
carl		What?
lucy		We're all having dinner.    Tonight. Remember?
carl		Right.   Of course.
carl		 I just think if we're going to be rolling out a no interest financing campaign we should commit hard.
nurse		If you're interested in donating plasma, feel free to sign up.
weird professor		Between 1996 and 2000 England's Ministry of Defence paid security cleared experts to research UFOs. This classified study was code named Project Condign.
carl		I'm sorry I'm late.
renee		That's fine. It's only the very first time I've met your friends.
carl		It was work, it went crazy late.
renee		What's with the "They're Out There" and "I Gave" button?
carl		Long story.  Miss, could I have an orange juice? Like fast?
carl		 Your wife found me a really great place. Built in Bose surround sound, a 100 inch LCD flat screen TV, roof deck with jacuzzi.
lucy		Least I could do. At least he's involved with our wedding.
peter		 I likey your suit-ey. Hugo Boss?
carl		Oh, this old thing?   Prada, I think.
renee		You think? We went to three different Prada stores to find the right fit.
lucy		What do yo do for a living, Renee?
renee		I paint. I'm in a band. I do volunteer work at a shelter. I teach ESL. I do balloon animal art. You know, a little of this, a little of that.
carl		You should check out her pottery. It's really big.
renee		It is big.     How about you guys?
lucy		Real estate broker.
peter		If you'll excuse me.
waiter		Have you made a decision about the wine?
carl		Well, we're kind of in a celebratory mood.
waiter		In that case, may I suggest a 97 Petit Rothschild?
carl		Maybe we should wait for Peter to decide.
lucy		He doesn't know crap about wine. Just pick one, Carl.
carl		Why not?   Let's celebrate.
waiter		With six people, I'd recommend two bottles.
lucy		Do you rent or own?
renee		I sublet.    I have this corner of a loft.
carl		It's a really nice corner though.
lucy		If you're ever interested in buying, you should ring me up.
renee		I hate owning things. Because when you own something, you suddenly are invested in that thing not breaking. And I break everything. I've gone through three TVS in three years.
seb		How did you break them?
renee		I smashed one with a hammer, dropped one off my roof and the third one just went on the fritz. So I set it on fire.
carl		It's on me!  I'd like to split it between an Advanta Blue Business, Mastercard, a Diners Club and my South Dakota Bank Visa Check card.
peter		Nice job with Renee. She's definitely odd, but that's not necessarily --
carl		I just spent $1500 on dinner.
peter		What?   Why?
carl		Because the waiter asked me if I wanted the expensive wine and you weren't there to stop me!
peter		Don't get mad at me about it.   You can just stop.
carl		No I can't. If I didn't say yes to the band flier, I never would have met Renee. If I hadn't said yes to taking charge of bank day care and then yes to becoming a loan specialist and then yes to the president's golf trip, I wouldn't be moving up. Each yes leads to the next one. If I stop, it could all fall apart.
peter		You've gone from a passive guy who always said no to a passive guy who always says yes. Just saying yes is not a legitimate life philosophy.
carl		I don't know why I should be taking advice from a guy who's wife is pissed he's not involved at all with the wedding planning.
peter		I'm involved.
carl		You told her you don't care whether the invite's cream or ivory.
peter		I can't see the difference.  Honestly, I'm terrified.
carl		What?   Why?
peter		It's marriage, you know?   The biggest thing ever.
carl		But you guys have dated for years.
peter		I know.
carl		You're perfect for each other.
peter		I know.
carl		She's terrified too.
peter		Really?
carl		Of course she is. I think you'll both be a lot less terrified if you're terrified together.
peter		But what if I really can't tell the difference between ivory and cream? Does that make me a bad husband?
carl		What matters is that you pretend you can see the difference.
girls		 It was wonderful meeting you!/I loved it!/Let me know when you throw your next art thing!
renee		It was great meeting your friends.
carl		They're a little stiff.
renee		They are a little stiff.   What do you feel like doing?
carl		I'm actually going rollerblading with Ralph.
renee		Ralph?
carl		You know, crazy rollerblading guitar man.
renee		The guy who plays at the promenade?
carl		Any interest?
renee		No. It's ten on a Friday night. And that guy's crazy. Don't you want to go home and make out?
carl		Yes.
renee		 Just go.
carl		That is really good to know.
carl		 Yes.
chris parker		What happened to you?
carl		I do this whole Habitat for Humanity Thing.
chris parker		I love the concept of charity. It's awesome.
carl		 [It is an honor to meet you.   Do you like America?]
chris parker		You speak Korean?
carl		Just a little.
chris parker		You sneaky devil. I knew I should watch my back around you.
carl		Is it a problem if I've never played golf before?
chris parker		You're a funny one, Carl Kendall. Remember, they have to win. In Asian cultures, there's a concept called Saving Face. You have to let them win. But if they smell for a second that you haven't tried your hardest, they'll commit hari kari.
carl		Metaphorically?
chris parker		Who knows? It's a delicate balance, Kendall. Like two little girls on a see saw with a crocodile beneath them. Make the wrong move, and the little girl will end up in the croc's maw.
chris parker		Alright, buddy. It's all you.
carl		I do.
seung kim		 [Good luck, my friend.]
carl		 [I shall need the luck.    This is my first time playing.]
chris parker		What was that?
carl		Just keeping them on their toes. Reverse psychology. Tiger Woods does it.
chris parker		I bogied the fifth hole.   I'm still pissed about that.
carl		Joo-Chan hit a 95. Nice work.      As
seung kim		Yes!
carl		I'm sorry to say that team Korean Bank International has won.
carl		 [I golf from crotch noodle.]
carl		 [I agree. The weather is sunny.]
carl		 Yes.
carl		You're very sexy.
chris parker		I'm promoting you to bank manager.  I've got my eye on you, boy. Don't you forget it.
renee		What's up, chicken butt? 
carl		I just got promoted to bank manager.
renee		Congratulations!
carl		OK.
renee		I was kidding. Not as sexy as it seems. It gets in like everywhere.  What should we do to celebrate?
carl		Have dinner?
renee		How about Korean? Oh, no, you probably already had some today.
carl		 No, we just had American food, American fare.
renee		You've just been so busy -- it'd be fun to have a night just the two of us. I wish we could just go to the airport and hop on the first flight outta here.
carl		Yes.
renee		 I think we're going to London.
carl		 Oaxaca, senorita.
renee		 Moscow, Russia, comrade.
carl		 Singapore.
renee		What was that?
carl		My Singaporean accent.     Pretty good, right?
airline rep		Two tickets to... Lincoln, Nebraska.   Have a good time.
carl		 Lincoln, Nebraska! Here we come, baby!
airline rep		That'll be twelve hundred and thirty three dollars.
renee		Maybe we shouldn't do this.
carl		I've been promoted.     I've got money to burn.
tony		Do you want to change your life through Mahayana Buddhism?
carl		Tony.
tony		How've you been?     You... never called.
carl		I'm sorry.     I've been busy.
tony		Yeah, well, I've been busy too.
renee		Hey, who's your friend?
tony		I'm Tony. I'm an old, close friend of Carl's.
announcer		Flight 2036 to Lincoln, Nebraska, now boarding.
carl		That's our flight. We should probably get going.
renee		It was nice meeting you.
carl		See you soon.
tony		 Have fun. You abigail.
young woman		Hi, there. Would you mind switching places with me? I want to be across the aisle from my mom.
renee		We're actually flying together.
young woman		It would really mean a great deal. She's very scared of flying.
carl		Where's your seat?
mom		I'm really scared of flying.
renee		So, now that we're here, what should we do?
carl		Well, clearly we should go there.
carl		I had no idea that the earliest switchboard operator headsets weighed ten and a half pounds. That is fascinating.
renee		It is?
carl		Not at all.
renee		We don't have to do this.
carl		We're here. We might as well.
carl		THIS IS AWESOME!
tractor driver		WANT ME TO OPEN THIS SUCKER UP?
tractor driver		TAKE THE WHEEL! FEEL THE POWER OF JOHN DEERE!
carl		There's, uhh, no power steering.
tractor driver		It's a tractor, not a Toyota.
carl		I'm sorry about the barn.
tractor driver		Been meaning to tear this sucker down anyway.
renee		I think I might have whiplash from that tractor ride.
carl		Just don't sue me.
renee		Watch your back, Carl.   I mean it. I'm very litigious.
carl		This day has been so randomly incredible.
renee		Would you... want to... travel around the world with me?  I mean, I know we haven't really been seeing each other for that long, but I don't know...
carl		Yes.
renee		Yes?
carl		Definitely.
renee		I think I'm falling, you know... Are you... ?
carl		Yes.
renee		Before our flight, what do you say we grab a couple Nebraskan steaks?
carl		I'm definitely falling for you.
old woman		Excuse me. Would you mind bringing this to my son?
carl		Like you want me to bring it with me? On the plane?
old woman		Fedex is so expensive and this needs to get to him today.
carl		 Yeah. Sure. I'd be happy to.
old woman		He's a tall, blond fellow named Sheldon Winkleton. He'll be holding a sign in the terminal with his name on it. You are a dear.
renee		I got US Weekly, Star and, for a little culture, the National Enquirer.
carl		National Enquirer?
renee		They have movie reviews.    What's in the package?
carl		Just a gift for some buddies back home.
renee		I'm sorry, I have to go to the bathroom.
dea agent		Put the package down!    Put it down!
renee		What the hell is that?
carl		I don't know!
carl		Yes. I'm sorry. Just let the girl go. She doesn't know anything.
carl		Some old lady gave me a package in the Lincoln airport to deliver to her son, Sheldon Winkleton. That was really stupid of me and I realize that now. I don't know anything about anything.
carl		Yes.
carl		Yes.   But that's all.
carl		But that's the only bad shit I've done. I swear.
carl		 Yes, I have. But I was in high school. I was a mess. She had cheated on me --
renee		What the hell happened?
carl		I can explain.
renee		So explain. Are you a drug smuggler?
carl		Look, when the nice lady asked me to take them on the plane, I thought they were chocolates.
renee		You expect me to believe a nice lady asked you to bring chocolates on a plane?
carl		I know how it sounds.
renee		I don't think you do.
carl		Wait!     I'll explain better.
renee		So you've just been saying yes to everything.
carl		Yes.  Pardon the pun.
renee		Oh.
carl		See? Do you get it now? It's nothing, just a glitch really.
renee		I thought we had so much in common but if you just yes to everything I don't know that we do. How do I know if you even like Korean food?
carl		I don't.
renee		Do you even want to travel around the world at all or do you want to work at that bank and buy a lot of Prada suits?
carl		 Yes. And yes.
renee		When I asked if you were falling for me all you said was yes.
carl		It wasn't a lie.
renee		Yes.    It was.
nurse		It'll be over soon.
carl		I don't care. Just take it all.
secretary		Chris will be with you in a moment. Would you like something to drink?
chris parker		So I got a call from the police department.
carl		I'm not a drug dealer --
chris parker		I spent a couple years in prison myself. So I backdated some stock options. Excuse me for trying to help our bottom line, right?
carl		You got to do what you got to do to help Mr. And Mrs. Shareholder.
chris parker		We are their slaves.
carl		Totally.
chris parker		Honestly, I prefer for all my top guys to have been in the Big House. We've all eaten the slop. There's a trust there you can't break.
carl		 Yes.
carl		 That's right, we're dropping the minimum loan to one dollar, bank- wide.
chris parker		Could you look through these numbers and let me know which of our five branches have been lagging behind in profit?
carl		I thought I was just implementing the microloan program.
chris parker		You're a VP, buddy. You do it all now.
carl		Sorry about that.
chris parker		Carl, I'm glad you could join us. So, to keep you all updated, we should be merging with Korean Bank International within the year.
carl		You can't close the Maple Branch!
chris parker		I know that Maple's where you got your start, but if I don't lay those people off then I get laid off. It's a vicious cycle.
carl		You don't have to if you don't want to.
chris parker		 If we don't close these branches than KBI will buy our competitor instead of us and put us all out of business. If you want to be an executive and get to do fun stuff like your microloan project, then you also have to be the bad guy who lays people off. That's why we get paid the big bucks. To make the hard decisions.
norman		The bank's all I've got. Every morning I restock the hard candy, polish the safe, write today's interest rates on the board.
carl		There are other banks.
rooney		We have to protest the merger.   Get some grassroots action going. Grass looks weak, but it grows everywhere.
carl		You don't even work at the bank.
norman		You should protest with us!
rooney		Yeah! Protest with your employees! It will only make you more popular!
employees		Hell no! We won't go!    Hell no! We won't go!
rooney		Throw a rock at him.
norman		Yeah, throw a rock!
chris parker		Some asshole protestor threw a rock at my head.
carl		Those dicks.
chris parker		I wish using hoses wasn't such bad PR.
carl		I think I made a mistake letting Renee go like that. What if I'm supposed to go on that trip?
peter		You own an apartment because of that job. People don't generally leave good jobs.
carl		But the bank doesn't feel right...
peter		Hey, honey. I think we should go with the tulips. I know roses are more romantic, but they're also much more clichd. Babe, can you wait a second?  I'm going to be on for a while. Ask your guru. He's the one who sent you on this retarded quest in the first place.
carl		Hi, Sanji.     I'm Carl.   Kendall.
sanji		 Of course! Would you like to purchase my new book, "The Power of Yes: Life is Yessy"?
carl		Actually, I had a question for you...
sanji		Well, this line is for book customers only.
carl		I'm sorry to bother you again --
sanji		Can't you see that I'm eating?
carl		I have a really important question. I have to choose between traveling around the world with a girl I'm really into or choosing a job that will make me pretty well off. I don't know which yes to take.
sanji		How well off?
carl		I don't know why that's important.
sanji		I should know all the data.
carl		A lot, OK?
sanji		This is    what I recommend. Every winter,    I throw a two week long seminar    in Aspen. It's only ten grand a    week and it will open your mind up    --
carl		I don't want to go to a seminar. I just need help with this question.
sanji		For you, eight grand a week. I have helped celebrities like Cher and Jack Welch. You will love it --
carl		 You're a total con artist.
sanji		I am not a con artist. Have I not set you on the life path you desire?
carl		 This man is a con artist! Don't listen to this man! He is a con artist!
rooney		 You are dead, AnalDestroyer832!
carl		Out!
rooney		What?   Why?
carl		You've slept on my couch for four weeks. You're a grown man. Now sack up and get the hell out of here.
rooney		Will you let me stay here please?
carl		Are you deaf?
rooney		You have to say yes if I ask you.
carl		You knew?
rooney		I may not seem like I get it, but I get everything. Lucy and Kath? Made out one time in the bathroom at Rudy's.
carl		Get the hell out of here.
flier guy		You want to pawn --
carl		No.
carl		No.
carl		Hey, Luce. What're you doing all the way over here?
lucy		It's been hard to reach you.
carl		I've been a little swamped.
lucy		Everything OK?
carl		Yeah.   Things are great.
lucy		I was wondering when you want to meet with the florist.
carl		Sorry, but I'm too busy these days. Don't have time to help with the party anymore. Good luck.
lucy		You're just stopping, just like that?
carl		I'm not the one marrying you. Maybe you should ask him for some help.
lucy		He is helping. Here I was thinking we were actual friends.
chris parker		 What is the best way for us to enter the teenage credit card market?
vp		Give away a free iPod.
chris parker		Yes.
another vp		Include one with cans of Mountain Dew Code Red.
chris parker		Nice.   Anyone else? Carl?
carl		Have you guys thought that teenagers don't have the financial knowhow to use a credit card?
chris parker		That's why they're such a ripe market. Any ideas on how to pick that low hanging fruit?
carl		Include a Mastercard with every xBox.
chris parker		I like that. I like that a lot.
carl's secretary		The executives are gathering in the conference room to officially greet the KBI Officials. 
carl		It's an elderly orangutan actually.  Could you please call everyone on this list and tell them to show up at Rudy's Bar & Grille this evening at 9PM?
carl's secretary		Will do.
carl		I just want to say, it was really great having you as my first secretary.
carl's secretary		You're not firing me, are you?
carl		I don't think I'm going to be working here much longer.
carl		I need to talk to you.
chris parker		And I need to talk to you. You mind doing a little ceremonial translating?
carl		I don't know if I'm good enough at Korean --
chris parker		Believe in yourself and the world believes in you.
carl		 [Welcome. You will be my partner.]
seung kim		 [Thank you.]
chris parker		KBI is the at the forefront of the financial world. With your help, Southwest will be as well.
carl		 [He says that you are a son of a dog and like to have the dirty sex.]
seung kim		 [What?]
chris parker		We look forward to working together and extending our reach across the globe.
carl		 [He says in Korea you poop on the ground and that here you cannot poop on the ground.]
seung kim		 [That is factually inaccurate]
carl		 [I know. But it's what the bigot believes.]
chris parker		So with this hand shake, I make official the acquisition of Southwest by Korean Bank International.
carl		 [Although you have poop on your hand, I am willing to shake it so I can steal all your money, you stupid Korean.]
seung kim		No.
chris parker		Excuse me?
seung kim		 We have a traitor in our midst. This man just called me a son of a dog and informed me that my hand is covered in fecal matter. He is clearly trying to sabotage the merger.
carl		You speak English?
seung kim		You think an international bank financier wouldn't speak fluent English? For whom do you work, traitor? Shanghai Bank? Chinatrust?
carl		For myself.
seung kim		Fine. Keep it secret. Unfortunately, I cannot approve a merger with a company so incompetent as to have a business saboteur this high up. Good day.
carl		I quit.
peter		Why does he want us here?
lucy		I have no idea.
kath		 You guys get the call as well?
iranian woman		I'm Farinoush.
rooney		I'm Rooney.
iranian woman		You're tall.
carl		 Announcing the pending marriage of Peter Carlton and Lucy Giuliano!
peter		Wow.    There's a horse in here.
lucy		Who are all these people?
carl		I didn't have much time to throw this together. I got a stallion, didn't I?
lucy		Thanks, Carl.
peter		What're you doing out here?
carl		I entrust you to sell all my shit.
peter		What're you talking about?
renee		What're you doing here?
carl		Yes.
renee		I didn't ask you a question.
carl		Well, if you do that's what my answer will be.
renee		Are you here because you want to be here?
carl		I just flew twenty-two hours. What do you think? Now can I please kiss you?
carl		 [What snake?]
norman		 [You guys don't have Heroes? I don't know you, but I think you would love it.]
carl		I'm here to see Omar.   The former King of Nigeria.
carl		Omar! It's wonderful to meet you in person
renee		Thank you, your majesty.
carl		I'm sorry for calling you a masturbatory Russian teenager.
****Dialogues from script :You_Can_Count_On_Me.txt****

sheriff		Hello, Amy.
amy		 Hi, Darryl.
sheriff		 Amy, would you please tell the kids you'll be right back, and then shut the door and come outside to talk to us for a minute?
amy		OK.  Be right back, you guys!
sammy		You're not supposed to go out, Amy.
terry		She's going to smoke a cigarette.
sammy		Rudy, come on! I'm really late!
sammy		How was school?
rudy		Stupid.
sammy		Why do you say that?
rudy		We're supposed to write a story for English homework, but they didn't tell us what it's supposed to be about.
sammy		What do you mean?
rudy		I mean they didn't tell us what it's supposed to be about. They said do whatever you want.
sammy		So what's wrong with that?
rudy		Nothing. I just think it's unstructured.
sammy		 Well, I'm sure you'll be able to think of something. If you can't, I'll help you.
sammy		Don't forget your backpack.
rudy		It's not a backpack, it's a knapsack.
sammy		Don't forget your knapsack.
sammy		Give me a kiss.
mabel		Guess who's been asking for you?
sammy		Oh no, really?
brian		 Yeah, come in!
sammy		Mr. Everett?
brian		Yeah: Brian.
sammy		Brian. Hi. I'm Samantha Prescott -- I'm the lending officer?
brian		Yeah, hi, how are you? Come on in. Sit down.
sammy		I am so sorry I was late...
brian		Yeah, we missed you before...
sammy		I got held up. Believe me, it is not something I make a habit of...
brian		I'm sure it's not. Actually -- could you just, could you close that door for me? Thanks.
sammy		-- so I always just run out at 3:15 to pick him up and then run him real quick over to the sitter's house. Anyway, Larry never minded about it and I was just hoping it would be OK with you too...
brian		Well -- Samantha -- I realize that Scottsville is not exactly a major banking center...
sammy		No it's not...
brian		No -- I know it's not... But it's kind of a personal challenge to me to see what we can do to bring local service up to the same kinds of standards we'd be trying to meet if we were the biggest branch in the state. And that means I don't want anybody running out at 3:15 or 3:30, or whenever the bus happens to come in that day. Now is there anybody else who can pick your son up after school? Does your husband work in the area? Do you --
sammy		Oh -- No -- Rudy Sr. isn't "on the scene." So to speak.
brian		Well, I can give you a couple of days to make some other arrangement, but...
sammy		Well -- Brian? I understand what you're saying, and I think it's great. I do. Because there's a lot of things around here that could use some attention. Believe me. But I've honestly been meeting that bus every day for four years now and it really does take just fifteen minutes, and if I take the time out of my lunch hour...
brian		I'd really prefer it if you would make some other arrangement. OK?
sammy		 I'll do my best...!
brian		How old's your son?
sammy		He's eight.
brian		That's a terrific age.
rudy		You got a letter from Uncle Terry.
sammy		What?!
rudy		Whose room is he gonna stay in?
sammy		He can stay in the little room.  But you know what? He's not going to live here. He's only gonna stay for a little while... And it's OK if you don't remember him, because you were only six the last time he was here... But it'll be nice if you got a chance to get to know each other a little bit. Don't you think?
sammy		Rudy? Would it distract you if I put on some music?
rudy		No.
sammy		Did you think of a story?
rudy		Uh huh.
sammy		What's it about?
rudy		My father.
sammy		What about your father?
rudy		It's just a made-up story about him.
sammy		Can I read it when you're done?
rudy		It's not very good.
sammy		Don't say that.
sammy		Anyway, Bob, it's sort of this adventure story, and Rudy's father is this secret agent or something, working for the government... And it just made me feel weird. You know? Because I never really say much to him about Rudy Sr., because I don't know what to say. And I don't know whether I should just let him imagine whatever he wants to imagine, or whether I should sit him down sometime and tell him, you know, that his father is not such a nice person. You know?
bob		Well... I don't know, Sammy. What have you told him already?
sammy		Not much. He knows I don't have the highest opinion of him. And he knows I don't want to see him or know anything about him, ever. But I tried to keep it kind of neutral. Anyway... I could go into a lot more detail, believe me.
bob		Well... It's an interesting problem. But I don't really know what to tell you... It's a little outside my personal field of expertise...
sammy		All right.
bob		I'd be glad to give it some thought...
sammy		OK.
sammy		What?
bob		Nothing... I'm just glad to see you... I'm glad you called me.
sammy		I bet you were surprised...!
bob		Um -- a little.
sammy		I should get going...
bob		Really?
sammy		Yeah... I've got the baby-sitter... But... Thanks for a lovely evening.
bob		Oh. Thank you.
sheila		Hey, Terry.
terry		Hey.
sheila		Where'd you get the hat?
terry		Oh, I got it on the street for a dollar.
sheila		It's nice.
terry		Well, you know, it's pretty much your standard woolen hat.
sheila		Yeah, I had a very similar reaction to it.
terry		Can I get that money from you?
sheila		Yeah. Sorry.
terry		Is that all you have?
sheila		Yeah.
terry		Can you borrow some cash from your brother?
sheila		Um, yeah, but that would involve speaking to him.
terry		Well, I'm definitely gonna be gone for a couple of days at least, Sheila.
sheila		Why do you have to stay so long?
terry		Because my sister is not a bank, you know? I can't just show up and ask her for --
sheila		You seem to think my brother's a bank!
terry		Oh Sheila can we just cut out the puerile crap?! I'll be back just as soon as I can. OK? I am not the kind of man that everyone says I am.
sheila		I know you're not.
terry		I'll call you tonight.
sheila		Don't you wanna tell me you love me?
terry		I love you.
sheila		That was really convincing.
terry		Well... I think after this is over you should seriously consider moving back home.
sheila		 Oh, yeah.
terry		 All right...
sheila		You gonna call tonight?
terry		Definitely.
sammy		 Hello?... TERRY!...
sheriff		Whoa there!
terry		Sorry.
sheriff		God damn! Terry Prescott! How you doin'? Gimme a cuddle!
terry		How you doin', Darryl?
sheriff		Which way you headed?
terry		I'm just goin' to see Sammy at Dawson's...
sheriff		Can I walk with you a little?
terry		Sure, yeah --
sheriff		So Sammy says you been out in Alaska...?
terry		Yeah, I was workin' out there for a little while...
sheriff		-- Sammy says she's gettin' postcards from all across the country.
terry		Yeah, I've been all over the place...
sheriff		Well, it's good to have you back here, I'll tell you that.
terry		Thanks, Darryl. Keep enforcing the peace.
sheriff		Well, that'll be a little harder now that you're home, but I'll do what I can.
terry		No, man, I'm reformed.
sheriff		Oh, yeah. Good to see you, kid.
terry		Thanks, Darryl.
terry		Sorry about yesterday --
sammy		I don't care --
terry		I was studying the bus description... and I just... I got on the wrong bus -- I mean I missed my stop --
sammy		I don't care, Terry. I'm just so glad to see you...!
terry		I'm glad to see you too, Sammy. Um... are you coming from work?
sammy		Um, no, it's Saturday...
terry		Yeah, no, it's just... you're dressed so formally...
sammy		Oh. No. You know, I just thought I'd -- You know I thought it was a special occasion... which it is...
terry		No, it's good. I thought I'd dress up too.
sammy		That's OK. You look fine.
terry		 Yeah, this is the haute cuisine of garments.
sammy		What?
terry		Nothing, nothing... Um... So how are you?
sammy		I'm fine.
terry		How's Rudy?
sammy		We're fine, Terry. How are you?  I mean --
terry		Yeah...
sammy		-- Where have you been lately, Terry?
terry		-- I know, I haven't been --
sammy		I got a postcard from you from Alaska...?
terry		Yeah, I was up there for a while...
sammy		But that was in the Fall, Terry...
terry		Yeah, I know I've been out of touch...
sammy		I was a little worried.  I mean --
terry		Oh, I been a lotta different places... Um... I went down to Florida for a while... I was doing some work in Orlando... I've been all over the place.
sammy		Well... I just wish you would have let me know you were OK...
terry		Yeah. I didn't realize it'd been so long...
sammy		 Are you gonna stay in town for a while?
terry		Well, I don't know... I got all these things I gotta do back in Worcester...
sammy		Oh...
terry		...Yeah, so I'm probably not gonna be able to stay more than a day or so...
sammy		Oh... Well... That's all right...!
terry		...I'm kind of trying to keep to a schedule of sorts. It's a long and worthy story but I won't trouble you with it right now.
sammy		Are you expecting someone?
terry		Who would I be expecting here?
sammy		You just keep looking around, that's all.
terry		No, I was just wondering if we could get some more refreshments, actually.
terry		I've actually got to confess to you, Sammy... that the reason you may not have heard from me for a little while is that I've been kind of unable to write... on account of the fact that I was in jail for a little while.
sammy		You were what?
terry		Well, I did a little time, I guess, in Florida. For, uh, just for bullshit...
sammy		What?!
terry		It was just bullshit...
sammy		What did you do?
terry		I didn't do anything. Does it occur to you that maybe I was wronged?
sammy		No!
terry		Well, could I please --
sammy		Oh my God! --
terry		Would you please let me --
sammy		-- What happened?!
terry		I got into a fight in a bar down in Florida. Which I was not the one who instigated it, at all. But they worked up all this bullshit against me and they threw me in the pen for three months. I didn't write you because I didn't want you to get all upset about it. I just figured you'd figure I was on the road for a little while. I know it was stupid and I'm sorry. I really didn't mean to make you worry. But you know what? I can't run around all the time doin' stuff or not doin' stuff because it's gonna make you worry! Because then I come back here, and I tell you about my fuckin'... traumas, and I get this wounded little "I've Let You Down" bullshit, over and over again, and it really just -- cramps me! Like I just want to get out from under it!... And here I am back in this fuckin' hole explaining myself to you again!
sammy		OK -- Can you please stop cursing at me?
terry		I mean, I realize I'm in no position to, uh, basically say anything, ever -- But it's not like I'm down there in some redneck bar in Florida having an argument with some stripper's boyfriend and I suddenly think, "Hey! Maybe this'd be a good time to really stick it to Sammy and get myself locked up for a few months."
sammy		I'm sorry.
terry		Me too, man. I mean "welcome home."
sammy		Hey -- You don't write me for six months, I have no idea where you are --
terry		I'm sorry --
sammy		-- I don't know if you're alive or dead --
terry		I'm sorry --
sammy		-- and then you show up out of nowhere and tell me you were in jail?
terry		I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Sammy, I'm really sorry...!
terry		Sammy...
sammy		What?
terry		Um... I'm in the midst of a slight predicament...
sammy		What do you need? Money?
terry		Um... Yeah... I'm broke. I gotta get back to Worcester tomorrow. I got this girl there, and she's kind of in a bad situation...? I just need to borrow some money. Whatever you can spare.  I'll pay you back... I'll pay you back, man.
sammy		I really wish Mom was here.
terry		So do I, man.
sammy		Nobody knows what to do with you.
terry		I know how they feel, man.
sammy		Terry? Can I ask you something?
terry		Sure.
sammy		 Well -- I mean, do you ever go to church anymore?
terry		Come on, Sammy, can we not talk about that shit?
sammy		Do you?
terry		Um -- No, Sammy. I don't.
sammy		Can you tell me why not?
terry		Um, yeah. Because I think it's ridiculous.
sammy		Well -- can you tell me without like, denigrating what I believe in?
terry		Because I think it's primitive, OK? I think it's a fairy tale.
sammy		Well -- I mean, have you ever considered that maybe that's part of what's making things so difficult for you?
terry		No.
sammy		-- That you've lost hold of -- well, not just your religious feeling, but lost hold of any kind of anchor, any kind of trust in anything... I mean no wonder you drift around so much. What could ever stop you? How would you ever know if you had found the right thing?
terry		Well, uh, I'm not really looking for anything, man. I'm just, like, trying to get on with it.
waitress		Here we go...
terry		Thank you, Sammy... I'm really gonna pay this back.
terry		Where we going?
sammy		To pick up Rudy.
terry		Well... do you not even want me to visit now? 'Cause I can catch the bus at five o'clock if that's what you want.
sammy		Well, of course I want you to visit, you idiot! I've been looking forward to seeing you more than anything! I've been telling everyone I know that you were coming home! I cleaned the whole fucking house so it would look nice for you! I thought you were gonna stay for at least a few days! It didn't occur to me that you were just broke again. I wish you would have just sent me an invoice!
terry		 Hi, is that Malcolm?... Hi, this is Terry Prescott?... I been trying to get ahold of Sheila and there's no answer, and I was just wondering if she -- She what?...
terry		 When?... Well -- Is she all right?... Well, could I talk to her?... Well, could you give her a message that I --
terry		That girl I'm with tried to kill herself.
sammy		What?
terry		She tried to kill herself.
sammy		Do you have everything you need?
terry		I think so.
sammy		What are you going to do?
terry		I don't know. Send the money I guess.
sammy		Maybe you should stay home for a little while, Terry.
terry		Yeah, maybe that'd be a good idea.
sammy		I'm going to bed. Do you have everything you need?
terry		Yeah. Thanks.
sammy		Good night.
terry		Good night.
sammy		Terry, I'm really glad you're home.
terry		Yeah, me too, Sammy.
sammy		OK. So we'll drop Rudy off at the bus, then all you have to do is drop me off at the bank, and just pick Rudy up at 3:30 in front of town hall, and drive him over to Carol's house. And that's it. She's on Harvey Lane, right past where the Dewitts used to live.
terry		OK.
sammy		Rudy knows where she lives.
terry		OK.
sammy		God, Mabel, don't those colors hurt your eyes?
mabel		Oh no, they keep me fresh.
brian		Yeah!  Hi, Sammy. What can I do for you?
sammy		Um, Brian? Did you want us to turn this time sheet in at the end of the day, or do you want it at the end of the week...?
brian		Oh, yeah, end of the day'll be fine.
sammy		Seems like an awful lot of extra paperwork...
brian		I like paperwork.
rudy		You showed up.
terry		Looks that way.
terry		Put on your seat belt.
rudy		It pushes on my neck.
terry		What?
rudy		It pushes on my neck. It's uncomfortable.
terry		Well, when somebody slams into us and you go sailin' through the windshield, that's liable to be uncomfortable too. So put on your seat belt.
rudy		Mom's parents died in a car accident.
terry		I know. They're my parents too.
rudy		They are?
terry		Well, yeah. Your mom is my sister.
rudy		Yeah, I know.
terry		So that means we have the same parents.
rudy		Oh yeah.
mabel		Um -- Carol just called. She said Terry and Rudy never showed up at her house?
sammy		You've got to be kidding me.
brian		Hey, Sammy?
terry		Hey. Look.
terry		You hold it further down, you're gonna get a lot more power. You should be able to put that nail down with two or three hits. Look:
terry		Try it.
rudy		That's not the way I hold it.
terry		Well, the way you hold it is wrong.
rudy		Why can't I just do it my own way?
terry		 You can.
sammy		Brian? Did you want to see me?
brian		Yeah. I was kind of wondering what happened to you today.
sammy		Oh -- Didn't Mabel -- I had a false alarm about my son...
brian		Yeah, I kind of thought you were gonna work that out.
sammy		Well, I did work it out -- more or less --
brian		Then why're you running outta here in the middle of the day without a word of explanation to me, Sammy?
sammy		Brian, don't yell at me.
brian		I'm -- I'm not yelling. I'm just gettin' a little frustrated here.
sammy		Well Brian:
brian		Sorry, could you close the door please?
sammy		...And Eddy Dwyer lives in Buffalo, with his wife and two sons, if you can believe it.
terry		That is depressing.
sammy		Why?
terry		He just never struck me as the marrying type, that's all.
rudy		Who are you talking about?
terry		Wild kids we used to know.
rudy		Were you a wild kid?
terry		Not compared to your Mom.
rudy		Yeah, right.
terry		You don't believe me?
rudy		No.
terry		Ask her.
rudy		Mom, were you?
sammy		No comment.
terry		Oh -- Just readin' some of your compositions.
rudy		Why are you smoking?
terry		Um... Because it's bad. Don't ever do it.
rudy		I won't.
terry		You know this used to be my room?
rudy		Yeah...  Do you want it back?
terry		No.
rudy		Did you fight in Vietnam?
terry		No. I wasn't even born yet.
rudy		Were you ever in the army?
terry		No.
rudy		My father was in the army.
terry		I know. Unfortunately he didn't fight in Vietnam either.
rudy		Were you friends with him?
terry		Not really. We had some friends in common, I guess... I didn't like him very much.
rudy		Why not?
terry		Well, he wasn't very likable.
rudy		Why do you say that?
terry		I don't know. He was always -- He always had to be better than you at everything. You know. Like if you were all playing basketball or something, everybody's havin' like a friendly game and he's like ready to kill somebody if his team didn't win. Or like if you told like a joke or a story, he always had to tell a better one? Kinda gets annoying after a while. Plus it was pretty scummy how he split on your mom and you... He was a prick. Probably still a prick. Fortunately for you though, your mom is like, the greatest. So you had some bad luck and you had some good luck.  You mind if I ask you a personal question?
rudy		I don't know.
terry		Do you like it here? I mean, in Scottsville?
rudy		Yeah...?
terry		Why?
rudy		I don't know. My friends are here... I like the scenery... I don't know.
terry		I know, I know, but it's so... There's nothing to do here.
rudy		Yes there is.
terry		No there isn't, man! It's narrow. It's dull. It's a dull, narrow town full of dull, narrow people who don't know anything except... what things are like right around here. They have no perspective whatsoever. No scope. They might as well be living in the nineteenth century because they have no idea what's going on, and if you try to tell 'em that, they wanna fuckin' kill you.
rudy		What are you talking about?
terry		I don't know...
terry		You're a good kid.
brian		Yeah. This doesn't apply to you directly, Sammy, but I've noticed that some of the employees have their PC monitors set with all kinds of crazy colors... Purple and polka dots or what have you. And it's not a big deal, but really, this is a bank. You know? It's not really appropriate. So I'm just asking that people stick to a more quote unquote normal range of colors in future...
brian		Like I say, it doesn't really apply to you.
sammy		No, my computer palette's pretty conservative.
bob		 Bob Steegerson.
sammy		 What are you wearing?
bob		 Mom?
sammy		What's up?
terry		Do you know you have an enormous leak from the upstairs hall?
sammy		Um, yeah, thanks, I did.
sammy		Are you guys sure you're gonna be OK?
terry		Yes. Yes.
sammy		What is happening here?
terry		It's just -- The problem is that the pipe is corroded all the way along the length of the hall. So every time I put in a new piece it starts leaking further down.
sammy		Why don't I just call the plumber?
terry		Why? He's not gonna do anything different than what I'm doing.
rudy		 Yeah. We're making it worse!
terry		No we're not. Shut up.
sammy		Thank you. Thank you both.
sammy		Now, call if there's any problem, and if I'm not there, I'm either on my way or on my way back home.
terry		OK.
sammy		 So lights out at ten... and don't spend the whole night watching TV.
terry		Nice to meet you, Bob.
bob		You too.
terry		 What's your idea of the whole night?
sammy		Two hours tops.
terry		What's your feeling about Bob?
rudy		I don't really know him that well.
terry		I have bad news for you.
rudy		No...!
rudy		Great. What are we supposed to do now?
terry		Do you know how to play pool?
rudy		I've played it.
rudy		I don't think they let kids in there.
terry		Well, we're not allowed to watch any more TV, so it's this or nothing... But if we run into any trouble, let me do the talking.
rudy		OK.
terry		I got a hundred bucks here says me and my nephew can beat anybody in here. Only we gotta get the next game 'cause he's gotta be in bed by ten o'clock.
terry		Just hit it nice and soft... Nice and soft.
rudy		 Sorry.
terry		God damn, Rudy. I thought you said you could play.
terry		Boys, it's all over but the cryin'.
sammy		Bob... Are you serious?
bob		Yeah.
sammy		I... I don't know what to say. I --
bob		I mean, I know I haven't exactly been the most... decisive... guy. In the past... I don't know: I'm tired of foolin' around. And I love you.
sammy		I... I'm totally... I don't know what to say.
bob		Well, you could always say "Yes."  Or you could think about it first.
sammy		That's it: I want to think about it.
bob		OK... Fair enough.
terry		Ohhhh!
terry		It's all yours, baby.
terry		Just make sure to hit it really gentle. But firm. And hit it a little low so you get some backspin. Don't even hit it. Just kiss it.
rudy		What do you mean, kiss it?
terry		I mean tap it. Firm but very, very softly. And don't shoot until you know it's going in. OK?
rudy		OK.
terry		That was great!
rudy		We creamed those guys! We creamed them!
terry		 Ssh...! Don't move.
terry		It's them!
terry		Go! Go! Go!
terry		Wait a minute, gimme your jacket!
terry		What are you doing?
rudy		I can't get my sleeve out...!
sammy		What is going on in here?
terry		Um -- We were just out doing some star-gazing, and, uh, Rudy lost track of the time. Which I totally warned him about.  You are a bad kid.
terry		 Hey: I think it's OK. Just don't tell her where we went, 'cause she'll be really mad at me. OK?
rudy		I won't.
terry		 Hey -- I'm not kidding, Rudy.
rudy		I won't!
sammy		Did you know my Mommy used to take me and Uncle Terry out at night to look at the constellations?
rudy		Yeah.
sammy		Did you see that one, what's the one -- It looks like a big "W"? Cassiopeia?
rudy		Yeah.
sammy		Ow! Shit!
sammy		I've got a great idea. Why don't you let me call the plumber?
terry		Do whatever you want.
sammy		Oh, does that make you mad?
terry		No...
sammy		Brian, get off my ass!
brian		Excuse me?
sammy		I didn't change the colors on your stupid computer screen.
brian		Well, that's all you gotta say!
sammy		 There is nothing wrong with the work I do here. I have been doing just fine, the whole time before you came here -- And if you think that riding people in this petty, ridiculous way is the way to improve service in this bank or anywhere else I think you're out of your mind!
brian		I didn't say there was. Could I please -- Could I please -- May I respond?
sammy		No, that's really all I have to --
brian		May I respond?  First of all, I don't appreciate being spoken to with that kind of language. That's not the way I talk to you, and I'd appreciate it if you wouldn't talk that way to me --
sammy		Well --
brian		Second of all, if you say you didn't change the colors on my computer screen, then of course I accept your answer. But you and I are gonna have to find a way to work together --
sammy		Brian --
brian		But that's not gonna happen with the attitude, it's not gonna happen with the lateness, it's not gonna happen by fighting me every step of the way -- OK, well not you, you're not late, but too much of that stuff goes on around here --
sammy		I am not late and I do not have an attitude -- Well then don't tell me I'm late if I'm not late!
brian		I'd really like to finish!
sammy		They were where?
plumber		OK, you're all set.
brian		This is Chuck. Chuck, this is my wife, Nancy.
chuck		Hello.
nancy		Nice to meet you.
brian		This is Mabel...
mabel		Hi.
nancy		Nice to meet you.
brian		This is Sammy, our lending officer. Sammy, this is my wife, Nancy.
sammy		 Hi. It's nice to meet you.
nancy		Brian -- I gotta sit down.
brian		Sure -- Let's go in my office.
nancy		I'm fine...!
sammy		Brian...?
brian		Yeah.
sammy		Rudy!
sammy		Look, I'm glad you guys are getting along so well -- like, you have no idea -- but if I can't rely on you to remember to get him once a day...
terry		You can!
sammy		-- And what are you doing taking him to play pool in the middle of the night, and then telling him to lie to me about it?
terry		I don't know.
terry		Get out of the car.
rudy		What are we doing?
terry		You're going to Carol's house and I'm going home.
rudy		Why can't I come with you?
terry		Because if you're such a baby you gotta tell your Mommy about us playin' pool when I totally asked you not to, and I gotta listen to her shit all day, then you're goin' to the baby-sitter's so you can stay at the baby house.
rudy		But I didn't tell her!
terry		You know what? Don't even fuckin' talk to me.
rudy		I didn't!
terry		Just get out of the car.
brian		You're working late.
sammy		How did your wife like the bank?
brian		Oh, fine. She wasn't feeling so great.
sammy		That's too bad.
brian		No -- I don't mean -- She's not ill. She's just... I don't know...
sammy		Pregnant?
brian		That's it. She's pregnant.
sammy		It can make you kind of cranky.
brian		Yeah...
brian		Listen, I'm sorry we've been stepping on each other's toes -- I -- I'm not actually that bad a guy --
sammy		Yeah, I am too... I know you're not, Brian, but you're driving everybody crazy.
brian		Well, I -- I'm just trying to do my best here -- And I'm gettin' it from all sides.
sammy		I know you are...
brian		Anyway... We'll work it out...
sammy		Well... I could use a beer.
brian		I could use a tranquilizer.
sammy		Last I heard, Rudy's Dad was living over in Auburn. But that was last year.
brian		Must be so tough raising a kid on your own... Although I'm beginning to get the idea my wife wouldn't mind a crack at it.
sammy		Oh... It's just the hormones.
brian		Well, no, it isn't. But never mind.
brian		Well, here's to improved employee- management relations.
sammy		Amen.
sammy		You can't judge all of Scottsville by the people in that bank, believe me.
brian		Well -- Let's -- Let's not talk about the bank.
sammy		OK.
brian		Let's just forget about the bank for tonight.
sammy		Good idea.
brian		Sammy?
sammy		Yeah?
brian		I want you to tell me who changed the colors on my computer screen.
sammy		I'll never tell.
sammy		Nowhere. I had dinner with my boss.
terry		Kind of a late dinner, ain't it?
sammy		Yeah. How was Rudy?
terry		Fine.
sammy		Did the plumber come?
terry		Yes, the fucking plumber came.
sammy		Terry -- Give me a break!!!
terry		What's the matter with you?
sammy		Nothing. I'm just tired.
terry		You want to smoke some pot?
sammy		No I don't. Why, you got some?
sammy		So... Bob asked me to marry him.
terry		Wow.  Are you going to?
sammy		I don't know. If he'd've asked me this time last year I would have probably said yes. But the minute he said it, I don't know, I felt like somebody was trying to strangle me.
terry		Well... bad sign.
sammy		I know.  I fucked my boss...!
terry		What?
sammy		I know! And his wife is six months pregnant.
terry		Jesus Christ, Sammy...!
sammy		I know, I know.
sammy		Terry, I'm sorry I got so mad before. I just don't want him, you know -- terrified of "telling," if there's --
terry		Uh, well, that's not really his problem, Sammy.
sammy		Oh really? What's his problem?
terry		His problem is that he's like totally sheltered because you treat him like he's three, instead of eight, so that's how he behaves.
sammy		Oh yeah? And how do you think he should behave?
terry		I think he shouldn't have to run and tell his Mommy every time he does something she might not like, for one thing.
sammy		Uh huh. And what do you --
terry		 I mean I took him to play pool! It was a little clandestine thing we did for fun! It wasn't like a big secret, I mean who cares? I was actually trying to be nice to him. But he's so freaked out that he disobeyed your orders that he has to fuckin' squeal on me and I have to listen to your fuckin' shit all day when I didn't even fuckin' do anything!
sammy		First of all, he didn't tell me anything: Darryl did. OK? Second of all, I don't really give a shit if you took him to play pool: I was mad at you because you left him standing at the bus stop in the rain. But no, I don't want you telling him not to squeal, because I don't want him put in that position!
terry		 Well... that... is a perfect example of what I'm talking about.
sammy		You are in idiot.
terry		Darryl told you?
sammy		Yes!
sammy		Morning.
brian		Yeah, good morning. Could you get the door?
sammy		Listen -- I just --
sammy		Brian, that's enough.
brian		OK. Sorry.
bob		You're awfully quiet.
sammy		I'm sorry.
bob		Um... Have you thought at all about what I said?
sammy		Of course I've been thinking about it.
bob		So... Any decisions? Or -- do you still want to think about it some more...?
sammy		Well -- I mean -- I don't know, Bob. I mean, we haven't exactly been going steady the last few months, if you know what I mean --
bob		Yeah, no, I know --
sammy		-- and then we see each other twice and you suddenly say you want to get married? I mean...
bob		No, you're right, you're right --
sammy		What are you talking about?
bob		I don't know... I... Maybe this is... Last year I sort of thought you were possibly interested in that... idea... but I was the one who, you know, wasn't "ready" at that point -- So that's why I thought things kind of slowed down with us...
sammy		Don't make me feel bad for you.
bob		 I don't want you to feel bad for me.
sammy		 Hello?
brian		 It's Brian.
sammy		Brian. Where are you?
brian		I'm buying milk. I just thought I'd say hello.
brian		Look, I know it's probably too late, but is there any way you can come out for a little while?
sammy		Brian, I think you're going crazy.
brian		I know I am. Can you meet me?
sammy		Um, OK.
sammy		Um -- I have to go out for a minute. Do you want anything?
terry		Like what?
sammy		I don't know.
rudy		Where are you going?
terry		Yeah, where are you going?
sammy		I just have to go out for a little while.
rudy		Where?
terry		Yeah, where?
sammy		I just have to go to Mabel's house.
rudy		Why?
sammy		You know what, Rudy? It's personal. This is a personal matter that has to do with Mabel. I just have to go see her for a little while.
terry		Listen. Listen. I'm sorry I said you squealed on me. I was totally out of line, and I really owe you an apology.  Did you hear what I said?
rudy		 I don't care.
ron		 What's on your mind, Sammy?
sammy		Well, a lot. But principally... I was just wondering if you had an opinion. If you know someone, in your family, or just someone you really care about, and they just can't seem to get ahold of themselves...
terry		You know who this is for?
rudy		Me!
terry		That's right, my little friend.  Hello. We're going fishing.
rudy		I got a new rod and reel, five lures, I got a hat, I got a knife and I got a fish scaler.
sammy		That's great, honey.
terry		I'll get it.
terry		Well... I'm not really sure why you're here, Ron. I mean, I realize I haven't exactly been a model citizen since I got here, but compared to how things have been goin' for me lately, I thought I was doing pretty well.
terry		And I also find it kind of discouraging that you seem to think I need some kind of spiritual counseling or what have you, so much so that you're willing to disregard the fact that I don't believe in any of this stuff at all --
sammy		Well... I didn't mean to discourage you --
terry		I mean it's really kind of insulting.
ron		Can I say something here?  Sammy asked me to come and talk to you, because it's her opinion that you're not gonna find what you're looking for the way you're looking for it --
terry		How would she know?
ron		But I'm really not here to try to get you to do anything, or to believe anything. And I'll tell you the same thing I told her, which is that as far as I'm concerned the only way she can help you is by her example -- by trying to be a model for you, by the way she lives her life...
ron		And that doesn't mean she's supposed to be a saint, either, if that's what you're smiling about.
terry		I didn't realize I was smiling.
ron		You know, Terry, a lot of people come to see me with all kinds of problems. Drugs, alcohol, marital problems, sexual problems, health problems --
terry		Great job you got.
ron		Well... I like it. Because even in this little town, I feel like what I do is very connected with the real center of people's lives. I'm not saying I'm always Mr. Effective, but I don't feel like my life is off to the side of what's important. You know? I don't feel my happiness and comfort are based on closing my eyes to trouble within myself or trouble in other people. I don't feel like a negligible little scrap, floating around in some kind of empty void, with no sense of connectedness to anything around me except by virtue of whatever little philosophies I can scrape together on my own...
terry		Well --
ron		Can I ask you, Terry: Do you think your life is important?
terry		You mean -- Like, me personally, my individual life?
ron		Yeah.
terry		Well... I'm not sure -- What do you mean? It's important to me. I guess. And like, to my, you know, the people who care about me...
ron		But do you think it's important?
terry		I --
ron		Do you think it's important in the scheme of things? Not just because it's yours, or because you're somebody's brother. Because I don't really get the impression that you do.
terry		Well, I don't think... I don't particularly think anybody's life has any particular importance besides whatever -- you know -- whatever we arbitrarily give it. Which is fine. I mean we might as well... I think I'm as important as anybody else...
terry		I don't know: A lot of what you're saying has a real appeal to me, Ron. A lot of the stuff they told us when we were kids... But I don't want to believe something or not believe it because I might feel bad. I want to believe it because I think it's true or not... I'd like to think that my life is important... Or that it's connected to something important...
ron		Well, isn't there any way for you to believe that without calling it God, or religion, or whatever term it is you object to?
terry		Yes. I believe that.
terry		So Sammy, what example will you be setting for us tonight?
rudy		What time are we getting up to go fishing?
terry		We're not going fishing.
sammy		What do you mean?
rudy		Why not?
terry		I think you should go fishing with Father Ron.
rudy		I don't want to go fishing with Father Ron.
terry		Well, I'm not takin' you.
sammy		I'll take you, sweetie.
sammy		I realize that you're mad at me --
terry		 I'm not mad at you...
sammy		-- but he didn't do anything to you. And you cannot promise a little boy that you're gonna --
terry		 ...I just, you know, after all that religious conversation, I just realized it's probably not so good for him to be spending so much time with someone like me who doesn't believe his life is important in the scheme of things --
sammy		Would you please...
terry		I'm serious.
sammy		 I am sure, if you put your mind to it, you can think of some other way of getting back at me besides this. So would you please just give it some thought, and take him fishing tomorrow?
terry		I would, Sammy, I just don't think it'd be good for him.
sammy		You suck.
nancy		 Hello?
bob		 Hello?
sammy		Anyway... I don't know what the church's position is on adultery and fornication these days, but I felt really hypocritical not saying anything to you about it before, so... What is the official position on that stuff these days?
ron		Well... it's a sin.
sammy		Good: I think it should be.
ron		...but we don't tend to focus on that aspect of it, right off the bat --
sammy		Why not?
ron		Well --
sammy		I think you should.
ron		Well --
sammy		Maybe it was better when you came in and they screamed at you for having sex with your married boss, and were really mean to you, and told you what a terrible thing it was. Maybe it'd be better if you told me how I'm endangering my immortal soul, and if I don't quit I'm going to burn in hell. Don't you ever think that?
ron		Um... No.
sammy		Well, it's a lot better than all this "Why do you think you're in this situation" psychological bullshit you hear all the time.
ron		Well... Why do you think you're in this situation?
sammy		With which one?
ron		All of them.
sammy		I feel sorry for them.  Isn't that ridiculous?
rudy		I've never been so bored in my life.
terry		Yeah... We really shoulda been out here around seven or eight A.M.
rudy		What time is it now?
terry		Two-thirty.
rudy		Was my father a good fisherman?
terry		Yeah, your father was good at all that stuff. He knew everything about the woods, everything about fishing, everything about hunting and everything about cars. If he wasn't such a pain in the ass he would've been a lot of fun to be around.
rudy		Maybe he's nicer now.
terry		I doubt it.
rudy		Well, I think he is.
terry		How would you know? Did you ever meet him?
rudy		No.
terry		Were you ever curious to meet him?
rudy		I guess so.
terry		Well, he doesn't live very far from here.
rudy		I thought he lived in Alaska.
terry		No -- I lived in Alaska. Your dad lives in Auburn. Far as I know.  We could look him up in the phone book. Wanna try?
rudy		All right.
terry		OK -- But -- I'm sure I don't have to say this, but I'm not kidding, man: Don't -- tell -- your -- mother.
bob		Do you want to go for a walk, or a drive? It's really nice out.
sammy		No. I'm not gonna stay long. Bob, I don't want to get married.
bob		OK.
sammy		I've really thought about it a lot, and if you had asked me last year I'm sure I would have said yes.
bob		Oh. Thank you.
sammy		But I'm not sure it would have been a good idea then either. I'm going through a really hard time right now and I just think that getting engaged to you or anyone would be just about the stupidest most self-destructive thing I could possibly do.
bob		OK.
sammy		And I really think you have to grow up.
bob		Well, how about we fix up my personality some other time?
sammy		OK.  I really hope we can still be friends.
bob		 Oh, yes, me too.
sammy		Bob... This is so crazy... I mean... I don't even understand why you... I don't even get it.
bob		What do you want me to say? Everything you said about me was true, Sammy. I was just a big chickenshit jerk, and now I'm payin' the price.
sammy		Bob...!
bob		What?
sammy		Well -- I don't know...
bob		I don't know. Sammy, I love you. I wish I could say it in a more interesting way. I just -- I love you.
sammy		Well -- I mean -- I love you too --
sammy		Oh shit.
bob		What's the matter?
sammy		I gotta go. I'm sorry --
bob		Where do you have to go?
sammy		 I'm supposed to -- I gotta get Mabel back her car.
bob		Well... I don't understand. How are we leaving things?
sammy		Oh God, I don't know. Call me later.
sammy		Sorry I'm so late.
brian		Yeah, I was just about to give up on you.
sammy		Well -- maybe it would've been better if you had...
sammy		I mean -- Look, I don't mean to be unsympathetic about your domestic situation, whatever it is, but I'm just beginning to think that if people tried a little harder to stick to their commitments and started taking a little responsibility for their actions, they might end up having a lot less trouble generally. That's all.
brian		Hey, that's what I've been trying to tell you guys at the bank.
sammy		Well, I really don't think I can do this anymore.
brian		OK.
sammy		This is incredible.
brian		Mmmm.
sammy		That is not what I mean.
rudy		Maybe we should call first.
terry		Well -- We're right here.
terry		Come on.
terry		There he is.
rudy		His last name is Kolinski?
terry		Yeah. Ring the bell.
janie		Yes?
terry		Hi. We're looking for Rudy?
janie		Who should I say is calling?
terry		An old friend.
janie		He says an old friend!
terry		Hey, Rudy.
terry		 Hi, I'm Terry.
janie		Hello.
terry		And this is Rudy.
janie		You don't say.
terry		Rudy, meet Rudy.
janie		I'll just be in the kitchen.
terry		Nice to meet you.
terry		OK if we come in for a minute?
terry		What do you mean what am I doin' --
terry		Well we just wanna --
terry		All right, all right.
terry		I just wanted the kid to see you --
terry		Man, you are really --
terry		I just wanna --
terry		You know what, man? You're still a fuckin' asshole.
janie		Get your fuckin' hands off him...!
janie		They just showed up! We never seen them before...
terry		I just came down here to talk to the guy and all of a sudden he starts shovin' me!
terry		 You're a lyin' fuckin' piece of shit.
janie		We have a right to protect ourselves. What else do you need to know?
terry		This is such bullshit. He started the whole thing and you're arresting me?
sammy		What time is it?
brian		 What's the matter?
sammy		Oh my gosh.
brian		Hey, you know, Nancy's gonna be gone for the rest of the week...
sammy		You know... Brian...
brian		Yeah?
sammy		Well, I don't want to... I mean, couldn't we just... I mean, could we give it a rest?
brian		Um -- Yeah. Sure. If you want to.
sammy		I mean... I just think... I don't know: We had a great little fling. You know? Let's not push it.  I mean, is that OK? I just --
brian		Yeah. Sure. OK. You're right.
sammy		So are we still friends?
brian		 Mm hm. Sure.
sammy		All right. Good...!
sammy		Around two o'clock this afternoon... Yeah, a ninety three Toyota Tercel. New York plates V127AC... Please.
sammy		Thanks for coming over. I just want to have a car handy just in case.
bob		No problem.
sammy		 Well -- what about other towns?... Yes! Yes! I called the highway patrol four times... Well what am I supposed to do all night?
sammy		 Hello?
brian		Anyone hear from Sammy this morning?
mabel		I didn't.
brian		Uh huh. Well, if anyone ever hears from her ever again, will you let me know?
mabel		Yes.
sheriff		It's gonna be all right... We got on the phone and talked to Rudy Sr. a little bit and he's calmed down, just wants to forget about the whole thing...
sammy		Darryl, I really appreciate this...
sammy		Hello?
brian		Yeah, it's Brian.
sammy		Brian --
brian		What the hell happened to you today, lady?
sammy		Hello?
brian		You're fired!
sammy		GOOD!
sammy		Rudy?
rudy		Yeah?
sammy		Is there anything you want to ask me, about your father?
rudy		Oh, that wasn't my father.
sammy		What?
rudy		That wasn't him. I heard him tell the cops.
sammy		No -- Rudy -- that was him. But that was him. I wish it wasn't, but it was.
rudy		 No it wasn't.
sammy		Rudy. Yes it was. Your father's name is Rudy Kolinski. He lives in Auburn...
sammy		Could you turn that off for a minute please?
terry		You don't have to say anything, Sammy.
sammy		I want you to leave.
terry		What do you mean?
sammy		I mean I don't think you should live here anymore. I don't think you know how to behave around an eight-year- old and I don't know how to make you stop, so I think you shouldn't live here. I don't know what else to say.
terry		I don't know how to behave around an eight-year-old?
sammy		That's right --
terry		I think you don't know how to behave around an eight-year-old.
sammy		Are you out of your MIND!?!
sammy		Now you just listen to me. I may not be the greatest mother in the world, but I'm doing the best I know how. And he doesn't need you to rub his face in shit because you think it's good for him. He's going to find out the world is a horrible place and that people suck soon enough, and without any help from you. Believe me!
sammy		I think you should get your own place. I thought, if you want, you could -- I'll be glad to help you out financially --
terry		What do you mean, Get my own place?
sammy		I mean I --
terry		You mean in Scottsville?
sammy		Yes.
terry		Why would I do that? Why don't I just leave, period?
sammy		 Well... If that's what you want to do, that's fine. But that's not what I'm saying. You are a very important person to Rudy, and you are the most important person to me. But I'm saying that I can't take any more of this --
terry		Well --
sammy		-- I thought -- maybe you could sell your half of the house to me, and I could pay you whatever it is over a certain amount of time, and that way --
terry		No, you know what? I'll just go.
sammy		 Well -- that's not what I'm saying.
rudy		Where are you going?
terry		I don't know. I just want to get out of this town. And if you've got any sense when you get old enough you'll get out of here too. Your Mom's gonna live in this town for the rest of her life, and you know why? Because she thinks she has to. Don't ask me why, but that's the truth. She thinks there's all these things she has to do, but you want to know one thing about your Mom? She's a bigger fuck- up than I ever was. I mean, I know I messed up. You think I enjoy getting thrown in jail because I wanted you to face that prick your Dad like a little man and see what kind of a guy he is? I know I got a little carried away, and I lost my temper just a little bit -- which is not the end of the world either, by the way, just for future reference --And now she's kickin' me out of my own house because -- you know, because I fucked up a little bit. Which I totally admit. I was like -- totally ready to admit that.
rudy		I could go with you.
terry		Well, thanks, man. But I, uh, I can't really take care of you.
sammy		Is that for you?
terry		Yeah, I'm just gonna stay at Ray's till I take off.
sammy		You don't have to do that.
terry		Yeah. Well, that's what I wanna do, so --
sammy		Well but -- Are you gonna come back to say good-bye?
terry		No -- I'm just gonna take off. I'll see you later.
sammy		Well --
sammy		Look. I know you're upset about Uncle Terry leaving, and so am I. But he's just not in control of himself, and I don't want him hurting your feelings anymore -- or mine. And you may not like it, but that's how it's gotta be. OK?
rudy		I don't care.
sammy		You don't care. I don't care either.
brian		Well... I'm sorry you're havin' all this trouble...
sammy		Thank you.
brian		But you made a pretty good speech to me yesterday about people sticking to their commitments...
sammy		Yeah...?
brian		Well... you made a commitment to this bank, Sammy. To this job.
sammy		I know I'd --
brian		And to working things out with this tough new son of a bitch boss of yours. And whatever might have passed between us after hours doesn't mean you just walk away from that commitment -- yeah, even when you have a legitimate family emergency.
sammy		I'm really sorry I didn't --
brian		Which is why I think in the calm cold light of day, we should both think real hard about whether or not you really want to continue on here at Merchants National Trust.
sammy		You're not serious.
brian		...you're not happy, I'm not happy, it's not good for you and it sure as heck isn't good for the bank.
sammy		You know you're the worst manager we've ever had?
brian		Come on, Sammy...
sammy		By far the worst.
brian		...I don't wanna trade insults with you.
sammy		Well, I don't want to be fired, Brian. I've been working here for seven years.
brian		Well --
sammy		And if I were you I'd be a little nervous about firing an employee I just had an affair with. OK?
brian		That's -- Don't threaten me, Sammy: I'm not threatening you. I -- It's just an area I think we should explore.
sammy		I'm not thr -- You explore it. I'm going back to work.
sammy		Oh, and I have to pick up Rudy today because there's no one else to do it. But I'll find someone as soon as I have time.
brian		Yeah. Fine. Why don't you just take over the whole bank?
sammy		Well, I called where Uncle Terry said he was gonna stay, and there was no answer, so I don't know if he's still in town or not.
sammy		Rudy? Are you not speaking to me?
sammy		Well, I'm sorry you're so mad at me, but I only did what I thought I had to do, and I hope you don't stay mad at me for the rest of your life.
sammy		Rudy, that's too much.
sammy		You gotta cut this out!
rudy		What did I do?
sammy		You don't know what you're talking about! There was nothing else I could do! I can't explain it better than that, but you can't go on like this because you don't know anything about it and you don't know what you're doing!
rudy		 OK, I'm sorry!
sammy		I don't want you to be sorry, I just want you to STOP IT!
rudy		I will! I will! I'm stopping, I'm sorry.
rudy		See? I'm stopping! I'm not doing it. See? I'm not.
terry		 Ray's house.
sammy		Hi.
sammy		I didn't know if you left yet.
terry		No -- I'm leavin' tomorrow.
sammy		Well -- What time?
terry		There's a bus at nine.
sammy		Well -- Can I -- I'd like to see you before you go. I mean, can I give you a lift? Or do you want to have breakfast or anything? And I think Rudy would really like to say good- bye.
terry		Yeah -- I don't know... I mean --
sammy		Terry, you can't just leave like this. I --
terry		All right, all right. I'll come by in the morning.
sammy		All right -- But just -- We have to be out of the house by eight, so -- I don't want to tell Rudy you're coming unless you really think you can make it --
terry		Yeah -- No -- I'll be there.
sammy		All right.
terry		All right.
sammy		You should get your sneakers on.
sammy		Sweetie, I'm sorry, we have to go.
rudy		Why can't I miss school one day?
rudy		Hi!
terry		Hey, how's it goin', man?
terry		Sorry I'm late.
terry		So Rudy... If I write you a letter, will you write me back?
rudy		Yeah.
terry		OK, well, that's gonna be pretty nice for you, because I write a pretty Goddamn interesting letter.
rudy		Yeah, we'll see.
terry		All right. Well, say good-bye.
rudy		Bye.
sammy		Do you need some cash for the bus?
terry		No, I got a few bucks... Aren't you gonna be late for work?
sammy		Oh -- Yeah. That's OK.  Terry, I don't even know where you're going.
terry		Oh, well, I didn't really have a concrete plan yet. I have to go back to Worcester and get my stuff...
sammy		Oh, are you gonna try to see that girl?
terry		Well... Yeah... You know... Thought maybe I'd try to show my face... Let her brother have a crack at me...
sammy		What?
terry		No...
sammy		...I don't want anyone to have a crack at you.
terry		I'm just kidding. I just thought... Just thought I'd check up on her...  Anyway, after that, I don't really know. I've been thinking about Alaska a lot. I still got some friends out there. I don't really know. Anyway, I'll write you.
sammy		You will?
terry		Sure, Sammy. Of course I will. You know that.
sammy		What is gonna happen to you?
terry		Nothing too bad... But I gotta tell you, I know things didn't work out too well this time...
sammy		Well, Terry --
terry		...but it's always really good to know that wherever I am, whatever stupid shit I'm doing, you're back at my home, rooting for me.
sammy		I do root for you.
terry		Come on, Sammy. Everything's gonna be all right... Comparatively... And I'll be back this way...
sammy		I feel like I'm never gonna see you again...!
terry		Of course you will, Sammy. You never have to worry about that.
sammy		Please don't go till you know where you're going. Please...!
terry		I do know where I'm going. I'm going to Worcester and I'm gonna try to see that girl. And then depending on what happens there, I thought I'd try to see if there's any work for me out West. And if there is, I'm gonna head out there for the summer and try to make some money. And if there isn't, I'll figure something else out. Maybe I'll stay around the East. I don't know... I really liked it in Alaska. It was really beautiful. You just -- It made me feel good. And before things got so messed up I was doin' pretty well out there. Seriously. But I couldn't stay here long, Sammy: I don't want to live here. But I'm gonna stay in touch. And I'll be back. 'Cause I want to see you and I want to see Rudy. I'll come home for Christmas. How about that? We'll have Christmas together.  Come on, Sammy. You can trust me...
terry		Come on, Sammy... Look at me... Look at me...
terry		Hey, Sammy... Remember when we were kids, remember what we always used to say to each other . . .?  Remember when we were kids?
sammy		Of course I do...!
****Dialogues from script :You_ve_Got_Mail.txt****

kathleen		Good morning.
frank		 Listen to this -- the entire work force of the state of Virginia had to have solitaire removed from their computers --
frank		 -- because they hadn't done any work in six weeks.
kathleen		Aren't you late?
frank		 You know what this is, you know what we're seeing here?  We're seeing the end of Western civilization as we know it.
kathleen		This is so sad.
frank		 I'm late.
frank		Sushi.
computer		Welcome.
kathleen		Brinkley is my dog.  He loves the streets of New York as much as I do --
voice		Darling --
joe		Mmmmmhmmm --
patricia		I'm late.  Vince got a great review.  He'll be insufferable.  Tonight,  PEN dinner --
joe		Am I going?
patricia		You promised.
joe		Can't I just give them money?  That's the cause?  Free Albanian writers?  I'm for that.
joe		All right, I'll go.  You're late.
patricia		I know I know I know.
kathleen		Hello, Christina.  It's a beautiful day. Isn't it the most beautiful day?
christina		I guess.  Yeah, sure.
kathleen		Don't you love New York in the fall?
christina		What's going on with you?
kathleen		Nothing.
christina		You're in love.
kathleen		In love?  No.  Yes.  Of course I am. I'm in love with Frank.  I'm practically living with Frank.  Do you think you could get our Christmas mailers out this week?
christina		By Monday I promise.  I have a paper due Friday.  Now what's going on?  I'm just going to stand here till you tell me.
kathleen		Is it infidelity if you're involved with someone on E-mail?
christina		Have you had sex?
kathleen		Of course not.  I don't even know him.
christina		I mean cybersex.
kathleen		No!
christina		Well, don't do it.  The minute you do, they lose all respect for you.
kathleen		It's not like that.  We just E-mail. It's really nothing, on top of which I'm definitely thinking of stopping because it's getting --
christina		Out of hand?
kathleen		Confusing.  But not really.  Because it's nothing.
christina		Where did you meet him?
kathleen		I can't even remember.  The day I turned thirty I wandered into the Over Thirty Room for a joke, sort of and he was there, and we started chatting.
christina		About what?
kathleen		Books.  Music.  How much we both love New York.  Harmless.  Harmless.  Meaningless.  Bouquets of sharpened pencils.
christina		Excuse me?
kathleen		Forget it.  We don't talk about anything personal.  We made a rule about that. I don't know his name, what he does or exactly where he lives, so it will be really easy to stop seeing him, because I'm not.
christina		God, he could be the next person to talk into the store.  He could be...  George.
george		Morning.
christina		Are you On Line?
george		As far as I'm concerned, the Internet is just another way to be rejected by a woman.
kathleen		Good morning, Birdie.
birdie		What are you all talking about?
christina		Cybersex.
birdie		I tried to have cybersex once but I kept getting a busy signal.
christina		I know, I know.  One Saturday night I was really depressed about not having a date, so I thought, no problemo, I'll go on line and I won't be lonely, but I couldn't get on, there were hundreds of thousands of people who didn't have dates trying to get on.  You have to wonder which is harder, getting a date or getting On Line when you don't have a date.
george		Getting a date is harder.
kathleen		 Jessica and Maia, how are you today?
kathleen		Hey, you forgot to pick up the garbage last week and I got a ticket.  And you're late today -- I could have gotten another.
kathleen		Of course there was --
kathleen		That guy went ballistic on me.
christina		I hope you told him off.
kathleen		Not exactly.
kevin		The electrical contractor called.  His truck hit a deer last night, he won't be in 'til tomorrow.  The shelves are late because the shipment of pine had beetles. And there's some question about whether we're installing the stairs in the right spot --
joe		That sounds great.
kevin		Testing one two three four.
joe		Is the electrician here?
kevin		I just told you -- he hit a deer.
joe		I hear nothing.  Not a sound on the city streets, just the beat of my own heart. I think that's the way it goes. Something like that.
kevin		 Did you and Patricia get engaged?
joe		Engaged?  Are you crazy?
kevin		I thought you liked Patricia --
joe		I love Patricia.  Patricia's amazing. Patricia makes coffee nervous.  Are we still on schedule?
kevin		We open two weeks before Thanksgiving.
joe		I guess we should announce ourselves soon.  Tell people we're coming.
kevin		This is the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The minute they hear they'll be lining up --
joe		-- to picket --
kevin		-- the big bad --
joe		--chain store --
kevin		-- that destroys --
joe		-- everything we hold dear.  But we'll seduce them with our square footage and our deep armchairs and our amazingly swift checkout lines and our discounts and our...
joe		They hate us in the beginning, but we get them in the end.  Meanwhile we should just put up a sign -- Coming soon, a Foxbooks Superstore and The End of Western Civilization As We Know It.
joe		Kevin and I are both a little concerned about the neighborhood response --  What is this fabric?  Does it have a name?
nelson		Money.  Its name is money.
joe		Gillian selected it.
nelson		Of course.
schuyler		Your father is getting married again.
joe		Oh, great, congratulations, Dad.  Why?
nelson		Who knows?  Why does anyone get married?
joe		Love.
nelson		Yes, that is one reason.
schuyler		I think you're a damn fool.
nelson		Dad, Matthew is four.  It would be nice for him if his parents were married.
schuyler		Annabel is eight and I'm not married to her mother.  I can't even remember her mother's name. 
joe		I have a very sad announcement to make. City Books on 23rd Street is going under ...
nelson		Another independent bookstore bites the dust --
schuyler		On to the next.
joe		And I'm buying their entire stock -- architecture, New York history -- for the new store.
nelson		How much are your paying?
joe		Whatever it costs, it won't be as much as this exquisite mohair episode.  We're also going to have a section on West Side Writers --
schuyler		-- as a sop to the neighborhood.
nelson		Perfect.  It'll keep those West Side liberal nut pseudo-intellectual bleeding hearts --
joe		Readers.  They're called readers.
nelson		Don't romanticize them.  It'll keep them from jumping down your throat --
schuyler		What's the competition?
joe		One mystery store.  Sleuth, on 86th and Amsterdam.  And a children's bookstore. The Shop Around the Corner.  Been there forever.
schuyler		Cecilia's store.
joe		Who's that?
schuyler		Cecilia Kelly, lovely woman.  I think we might have had a date once.  Or maybe we just exchange letters.
joe		You wrote her letters?
schuyler		Mail.  It was called mail.
nelson		 Stamps.  Envelopes.
joe		Wait.  I've heard of it.  It was a means of communication before I was born.
nelson		Exactly.
schuyler		Cecilia had beautiful penmanship. She was too young for me, but she was... enchanting.  Her daughter owns it now.
nelson		Too bad for her.
tv reporter		The body of a woman was found this morning on the roof of a New York building...
tv reporter		Here is a resident of the building.  Your name, please?
george		George Pappas.
reporter		Did you see or hear anything unusual last night?
george		No.  I didn't go out.
reporter		The victim was red-haired, about thirty- five, wearing a jogging suit.  Did you encounter anyone by that description in the building?  Sir?
reporter		Have there been any wild parties lately?
reporter		Could it perhaps be one of your neighbors?
reporter		 As you can see, no one here knows anything.
christina		 What?
george		The coup de foudre. I had one. I never believed in them, but I just had one.
birdie		Is that the thing where you get cold suddenly, bang?
christina		No, that's the coup de vieux.
birdie		I had that.
george		The coup de foudre is where you get love suddenly, bang.  A thunderbolt.
birdie		I had that too.  Only I had it in Seville, where it was called ,el estruendo de amor.
george		I don't know her name, or anything about her.  I may never see her again.
christina		And if you ever do meet her, you'll find out all the horrible details, and that will be that.  She'll turn out to have pictures of the Virgin Mary all over the walls.
george		I won't care.
kathleen		Can someone help me out here?
christina		George had a coup de foudre.
george		And Christina's making fun of me.
kathleen		Don't let her.  I believe in this, I completely believe in this.  It happened to Madame Bovary, at least six times.
christina		And she was wrong every time.
kathleen		Yes!  Who was she?
george		I don't know.  She was standing outside my building with the police and the reporters.
kathleen		What police and reporters?
george		Someone died.
kathleen		Who?
george		I have no idea about that either. They found her on the roof.
kathleen		A dead body.  That's so sad.  But you fell in love.  That's so great.
george		Oh.  One other thing.
christina		Quel nightmare.
kathleen		It has nothing to do with us. It's big, impersonal, overstocked and full of ignorant salespeople.
george		But they discount.
kathleen		But they don't provide any service.  We do.
kathleen		So really it's a good development.  You know how in the flower district, there are all these flower shops in a row so you can find whatever you want.  Well, this is going to be the book district. If you don't have it, we do.
birdie		And vice versa.
frank		When you are finished with Foxbooks, the Shop Around the Corner is going to be responsible for reversing the entire course of the Industrial Revolution.
kathleen		That is so sweet, Frank.  Thank you. That is so sweet.
frank		Hey --
kathleen		Although...
frank		What?
kathleen		 What is that doing there?
frank		Listen to it.  Just listen--
frank		The Olympia Report deluxe Electric Report.  As in gunshot.
kathleen		That sound is familiar.
frank		Now listen to this.
kathleen		That whirring?
frank		The gentle and soothing lullaby of a piece of machinery so perfect --
kathleen		I know where I've heard it before.  I know.
frank		I needed a backup.
kathleen		Don't you have another one at your apartment?
frank		I might, I might.  So what?
kathleen		You're turning my apartment into a typewriter museum.
frank		I'll stop.  I'll try.  I probably can't. I see one and my knees go weak.  Anyway, what were you starting to say?
kathleen		When?
frank		Before.
kathleen		Nothing.
frank		Come on.
kathleen		I don't know.  I was just wondering about my work and all.  I mean, what is it I do exactly?  All I really do is run a bookstore --
frank		All you really do is this incredibly noble thing --
kathleen		But I don't know if I --
frank		 Kathleen --
kathleen		But I just --
frank		You are a lone reed.
frank		You are a lone reed waving in the breeze standing strong and tall in the corrupt sands of commerce.
kathleen		 I am a lone reed.
christina		I went to the Foxbooks Website and you can buy anything.  They ship it to you in a day.  Maybe we should get a website.
kathleen		My mother would never have wanted us to have a website.  "Every book you sell is a gift from your heart."  She always said that.
christina		What if they put us out of business?
kathleen		It's out of the question.  We're a fixture in the neighborhood.  We're practically a landmark.  Men For Women, Women for Men, Women for Women -- what is this?
christina		You fill out one of these forms and they file it in the book and if someone wants to meet you, they arrange it.
kathleen		What a stupid way to meet someone.
christina		Compared to the Internet?
kathleen		My little thing on the Internet is just a lark.
christina		So it's still going on?
kathleen		And I do not plan to meet him.  Why do I get the feeling that you are in here somewhere?
christina		I came in here one night and drank too much coffee and filled one out.  Well how am I supposed to meet someone?
kathleen		You are a runner.  Some day you will make eye contact with another runner and --
christina		No one ever even looks at me.  They don't.  On top of which, who are they? They could like the symphony.  I could never fall in love with someone who likes to go to the symphony --
kathleen		I know.  What are you supposed to do there?
christina		I don't know.
kathleen		Sit.  You're supposed to sit.
christina		I could never fall in love with anyone who smokes cigars either.
kathleen		I'll tell you what I hate.  Big fat legs like stumps.
christina		Yeah.  I hate that too.
kathleen		The worst, the worst -- I could never, under any circumstances, love anybody who had a sailboat.
christina		Neither could I.
kathleen		If I had to get up on Saturday morning knowing that I was about to go down to the pier and unravel all those ropes and put on all that sunblock --
christina		All that talk about the wind.
kathleen		And then you have to go out on the boat, and you sail and sail and sail until you are bored witless, and then, only then, do they say, let's turn around and you realize the trip is only half over, only it's not, because the wind has changed --
christina		It hasn't changed.  It's died.
kathleen		So then there's more talk about the wind. While you just float up and down trying not to get nauseous.  And when you finally get back, you have to clean up the boat.
christina		Why don't people have boat maids?
kathleen		I know.  There're all these people who wouldn't be caught dead polishing a doorknob in their house but put them on a boat and they want to rub down everything in sight.
annabel		Joe --
joe		Hello.  Annabel, how are you today?
annabel		Great.
joe		 Hey, big guy --
gillian		Don't I get a hello?
joe		Hello, Gillian.
gillian		Kiss me.  I'm going to be your wicked stepmother.
joe		Who is this?
gillian		Nanny Maureen.  I brought her in case you couldn't handle the kids.
annabel		Maureen's getting a divorce.
joe		I'm sorry to hear that.
maureen		It's my own fault.  Never marry a man who lies.
joe		That is so wise.  Remember that, Annabel.
annabel		She taught Matt to spell his name.
matt		Fox. F-O-X.
joe		Excellent, Matt.  You must be late for something. Volunteer work at the Henry Street Settlement.  Packing bandages for Bosnian refugees.  A course in Chinese literature at Columbia.
gillian		I am.  I'm having my eggs harvested.
kathleen		This is her best friend Tacy, whose real name is Anastasia, and then in the next book Betsy and Tacy become friends with Tib, whose real name, I am sorry to tell you, is Thelma.
george		The illustrations are hand-tipped, which is why --
joe		It costs so much.
george		It's why it's worth so much.
annabel		I want all of them.
kathleen		That might be an awful lot for your dad to buy at one time.
annabel		My dad gets me all the books I want.
kathleen		 Well, that's very nice of him.
annabel		That's not my dad.  That's my nephew --
kathleen		Oh, I don't really think that's your nephew --
joe		It's true.  Annabel is my aunt.  Aren't you, Aunt Annabel?
annabel		And Matt is --
kathleen		Let me guess.  Are you his uncle?
matt		No.
kathleen		His grandfather?
matt		 I'm his brother.
joe		Annabel is my grandfather's daughter. And Matt is my father's son.  We are an American family.
annabel		What is that?
kathleen		A handkerchief.  Oh my, do children not even know what handkerchiefs are?  A handkerchief is a Kleenex you don't throw away.  My mother embroidered it for me -- you see?  My initials and a daisy, because daisies are my favorite flower.
annabel		Orchids are my favorite flower.
kathleen		 You know what else children don't know? They don't know what a telephone booth is?
joe		Who are you?
kathleen		Kathleen Kelly.  I own this store. Are you are?
joe		Joe.  Just call me Joe.  We'll take these books.
kathleen		These are wonderful books.  As Annabel gets older the characters in the books do, too.  You can grow up with Betsy.
george		You're going to come back again, aren't you?
joe		Of course.
george		This is why we're never going to go under.  Our customers are loyal.
kathleen		 They're opening a Foxbooks around the corner.
annabel		Foxbooks!  My Daddy --
joe		 -- likes to buy at discount.  Don't tell anyone that, Annabel, it's nothing to be proud of --
matt		 F-O-X.
kathleen		That's amazing.  You can spell fox.  Can you spell dog?
matt		F-O-X.
joe		Matt, look at this dinosaur book. Wouldn't you like a dinosaur book? Annabel, maybe you could read this to Matt while I wrap things up here.  Sit down, read, and don't listen to anything I say.
joe		And the dinosaur book too.
kathleen		The world is not driven by discounts, believe me.  I've been in business forever.  I started helping my mother here after school when I was six years old.  I used to watch her, and it wasn't that she was selling books, it was that she was helping people become whoever they were going to turn out to be.  When you read a book as a child it becomes part of your identity in a way that no other reading in your life does.  I guess I've gotten carried away.
joe		You have, and you've made me feel...
kathleen		She was.  How did you know that?
joe		Lucky guess.
kathleen		Anyway.  She left the store to me, and I'm going to leave it to my daughter.
joe		How old is your daughter now?
kathleen		Oh, I'm not married.  But eventually.
kathleen		So Foxbooks can...
kathleen		 Here you go.
joe		We ready?
annabel		Bye, Kathleen.
kathleen		Goodbye, Annabel.  Bye, Matt.  What about cat?  Can you spell cat?
matt		F-O-X.
sarah		 You have a dentist appointment in twenty minutes.  So you should leave soon...
patricia		What's my car number?
sarah		Car?  You didn't say anything about a car --
patricia		Are you an idiot?  Of course I need a car. God!
patricia		Taxi!  Taxi!  Taxi!
patricia		Excuse me -- what are you doing?  This is my taxicab.  Who the fuck do you think you are?
patricia		Yes.
patricia		Veronica, it's Patricia, you should have been there, it was unbelievable, we're going to sell truckloads of your book. Call me.
patricia		Yes.
patricia		Oh, my God, I said fuck to a rabbi.  I'm sorry.
patricia		Yes.
patricia		I'm not really religious.
patricia		You're kidding, right?
patricia		Goodbye.
frank		I saw him.  I actually saw him.
kathleen		Who?
frank		I can't believe it.  I saw William Spungeon.
kathleen		I thought he was in Mexico.
frank		Maybe he's in Mexico, but today he was in New York.  The most brilliant and reclusive novelist in the history of the world is here, in this neighborhood.  He may be living on this very block.
kathleen		Where did you see him?
frank		I was on the subway --
frank		So I followed him.
frank		Do you know what this is worth?
frank		What I was thinking as I was trailing him was that eventually I would have the courage to say hello to him, you know, not in a horrible, intrusive or slavering fan-slash-acolyte kind of way, but more like, "Hi."  "How ya doing?"  "Have you ever thought about trading up in the sock area?"  "Who knows, maybe he's read my work -- and then we'd become friends, and eventually I'd introduce him to you -- you know how much he loves children's books, there's a whole long section in Relativity's Smile about The Wizard of Oz -- and then maybe he'd come out of hiding so he could help save the store.
kathleen		What are you talking about?
frank		From Foxbooks.  I mean, if things got tough, he could help rally support --
kathleen		It's never going to get to that.  The store is fine.
frank		I don't even know why you would say that?
kathleen		Neither do I.  It just flew out of my mouth.
frank		There's enough business for us all.
kathleen		I mean, we're fine.
frank		You're more than fine, you're absolutely fine.
kathleen		We're fine.
frank		Hey, Vince.  Congratulations.  You know Kathleen Kelly.
vince		How are you?
frank		Guess who I saw today on the subway? William Spungeon.
vince		I thought he was in Mexico.
patricia		Would you get me another drink, sweetie? I'm all out.  So then the rabbi says, "It's a very good place to calm down."  Isn't that hysterical?
joe		Absolut on the rocks.
kathleen		A white wine, please.  Oh, hello.
joe		Hi.
kathleen		Remember me, from the bookstore?
joe		Of course I remember you.
kathleen		How's your aunt?
joe		Good.  She's good.  I have to deliver this.  I have a very thirsty date.  She's part camel.
kathleen		Joe.  It's Joe, isn't it?
joe		And you're Kathleen.
vince		I can't believe you were talking to Joe Fox.
kathleen		Joe Fox?  As in --
kathleen		Fox?  Your last name is Fox?
joe		F-O-X.
kathleen		God, I didn't realize.  I didn't know who you -- 
joe		-- were with.  "I didn't know who you were with."
kathleen		Excuse me?
joe		It's from the Godfather.  When the movie producer realizes that Tom Hagen is the emissary of Vito Corleone -- 
kathleen		You were spying on me, weren't you?  You probably rented those children.
joe		Why would I spy on you?
kathleen		I am your competition.  Which you know perfectly well or you would not have put up that sign saying "Just around the Corner."
joe		The entrance to our store is around the corner.  There is no other way to say it. It's not the name of our store, it's where it is.  You don't own "around the corner."
kathleen		Next thing you'll be using twinkle lights.
joe		Twinkle lights?
kathleen		Little white Christmas lights that twinkle.  I use them in my window and on all my displays, as if you didn't notice.
joe		Look, the reason I came into your store is that I was spending the day with Annabel and Matt.  I like to buy them a present when I see them because I'm one of those guys who likes to buy his way into the hearts of children who are his relatives.  There was only one place to buy children's books in the neighborhood -- although that will not always be the case, and it was yours, and it is a charming little bookstore.  You probably sell $250,000 worth of book a year --
kathleen		How do you know that?
joe		I'm in the book business.
kathleen		I'm in the book business --
joe		Oh, I see, and we're the Price Club. Only instead of a ten-gallon can of olive oil for $3.99 that won't even fit into your kitchen cabinet, we're selling cheap books.  Me a spy.  Absolutely.  And I managed to get my hands on a secret printout of the sales figures of a bookstore so inconsequential and yet full of its own virtue that I was instantly compelled to rush over and check it out for fear it would drive me out of business --
frank		Hi.  I'm Frank Navasky --
joe		-- Joe Fox.
frank		Joe Fox?  Inventor of the Superstore, enemy of the mid-list novel, destroyer of City Books -- tell me something: How do you sleep at night?
patricia		I use a wonderful over-the-counter drug, Ultrasom.  Don't take the whole thing, just half, and you will wake up without even that tiniest hangover.  You're Frank Navasky, aren't you?
frank		Yes.
patricia		Your last piece in the Independent, the one about Anthony Powell, was brilliant. I'm Patricia Eden, Eden Books.  Joe, this man is the greatest living expert on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg --
joe		And this is Kathleen Kelly --
frank		You liked my piece.  God, I'm flattered. You know you write these things and you think someone's going to mention them and then the whole week goes by and the phone doesn't ring, and you think Oh, God, I'm a fraud, a failure --
patricia		You know what's always fascinated me about Julius and Ethel Rosenberg is how old they looked when they were really just our age.
patricia		 I'm so happy to have finally met you.  We will talk.  Have you ever thought about doing a book?
frank		Oh sure, it's passed through my head. Something really relevant for today like the Luddite movement in 19th century England.
joe		Patricia --
kathleen		Frank --
frank		I really like Patricia Eden.  She's a very nice person.
frank		She needs educating, that's all.
frank		She's hopelessly driven by money and power, but there's a hope for anyone who's that familiar with my work --
patricia		I had no idea that Frank Navasky was so down-to-earth.
patricia		You read his stuff, you think he's going to be so obscure and abstruse.
joe		I'm not really tired.
kathleen		Meet?  Omigod.
joe		No pickets, no demonstrations.
kevin		The neighborhood loves us.
nelson		They're wondering where we've been all these years.  They're wondering how they ever did without it.
schuyler		It's a hit.
nelson		How's the children's book department?
joe		It's early yet.  School isn't out.  And there's that children's bookstore nearby --
schuyler		Cecilia's store --
joe		Her daughter's --
nelson		We'll crush it --
schuyler		She was enchanting.
birdie		About $1200 less than the same week last year.
kathleen		That could be a fluke, right?
birdie		Or not.
kathleen		Their store is new.  It's a novelty.  But it will all shake out.  Do you think I should put up more twinkle lights?
birdie		That's a lovely idea.
christina		What if we have to fold?  I'll never find another part time job and I won't be able to pay the rent and I'll have to move to Brooklyn.
george		The joy of rent control.  Six room for $450 a month.
christina		We know.  You've told us a million times. I can't believe you're bringing it up at a time like this.  It's like bragging because you're tall.  Birdie never brags about her rent and she pays even less than you.
birdie		Ten rooms.  I just rattle around from one to the other.
kathleen		Hey, guys.  We are not going to fold.
meredith		George Pappas?
george		 Yes.
meredith		 Detective Carter, 23rd precinct.  I'd like to ask you a few questions.
kathleen		George?  Where are you going?
laura		Kathleen, are you surviving?
kathleen		Laura!  We're so excited about your new book.  When should we schedule your signing?
laura		Oh, it's being published in January. Are you going to be in business in January?  I'm so worried.
kathleen		We're doing great, aren't we?
christina		Great.
birdie		No difference whatsoever.
laura		Thank God.  Well, you know you can count on me.  For anything, support, rallies. Picket lines.  We can get the Times to write something.  Or that nut in the Independent --
kathleen		What nut in the Independent?
laura		Frank Navasky.  This is just the sort of thing that would outrage him.
meredith		Mr. Pappas, I'm investigating the murder of the woman found on the roof of your building.  Do you live alone there?
george		Do I live alone?  Yes I do.  Do you live alone?
meredith		Yes.
meredith		 What are you doing?
george		I don't know.  I have no idea.
meredith		You have to stop.
george		I can't.
cashier		This is a Cash Only line.
kathleen		What?
cashier		Cash Only.
kathleen		Omigod, I only have a credit card.  Is that okay?
cashier		There's a sign.
another person		Get on another line, lady.
joe		Oh, hello.
kathleen		Hello.
joe		Do you need some money?
kathleen		No, I don't need any money.  Thank you very much.
cashier		Get on another line.
joe		Hi.  Rose. Great name.  Rose, this is Kathleen, I'm Joe, and this is a credit card machine.  Happy Thanksgiving.
rose		Happy Thanksgiving back.
joe		Mississippi is a hard word to spell.  How do you spell it?  I-T.  Now take this credit card and put it through the machine, zip zip.
joe		So you're fine.
kathleen		Fine.
joe		Happy Thanksgiving.
annabel		The sun'll come up tomorrow, bet your bottom dollar that tomorrow, there'll be sun --
young kathleen		Hey, watch out --
kathleen		 The Godfather?
patricia		Look what I bought.
patricia		I was just passing this store on Columbus Avenue and it caught my eye.
joe		What is it?
patricia		A Menorah. JOE It doesn't look like a Menorah.
patricia		I know.  I don't know what came over me. I don't even celebrate Hanukkah.
kathleen		Frank, I've decided to go to the mattresses.  Do you think it would be a gigantic conflict of interest if you wrote something about us?
birdie		 "Kathleen Kelly and her mother Cecilia Kelly have raised your children.  If this precious resource is killed by the cold cash cow of Foxbooks, it will not only be the end of Western civilization as we know it, but the end of something even dearer: our neighborhood as we know it. Save the Shop Around the Corner and you will save your own soul."  Frank, that's charming.
frank		You think it's a little over the top?
birdie		Just say thank you.
frank		Thank you.
christina		 Channel 2's outside.
kathleen		In a second.
george		 The Village Voice is coming.
kathleen		Omigod.
frank		 It's him.
kathleen		Who?
frank		God. It is God.
william spungeon		I'm William Spungeon.
kathleen		I'm very pleased to meet you.  I'm Kathleen Kelly.
spungeon		I knew your mother.  Although she knew me only as W.  That enormous bookstore is obscene.
frank		I'm Frank Navasky.  I carry your picture in my wallet.
kathleen		We've organized pickets.  Channel 13 is doing a special.
spungeon		I'd be glad to talk to the press if it's all right with you.  They've been trying to interview me for years.
frank		The press?  I'm the press.
kathleen		You'd allow that?  For me?  For the store?  That's incredible.  Although you wouldn't have to be photographed.  I respect that.  If it's television, they could just put one of those blurry dots in front of your face.
spungeon		No television.
christina		 They're waiting for you --
frank		I know all your books.  Phaelox the gnome, the little man who comes from nowhere... and is going nowhere...  "Where did you come from?"  "Nowhere." "Where are you going?"  "Nowhere."
spungeon		Cool it.  I'm starting to break out in hives.  Here's my phone number.
kathleen		I had no idea William Spugeon had a phone.
spungeon		Adios.
frank		This is historic.  Do you realize what I've done?  By writing that piece, do you realize? I've brought William Spungeon in from the cold. Holy shit.  I am completely amazing.
tv reporter		Kathleen Kelly?
kathleen		Luca Brasi sleeps with the fishes.
kathleen		Never mind.  I'm ready.  Shoot.
kathleen		They have to have discounts and lattes, because most of the people who work there have never read a book.
joe		She's not as nice as she seems on television.
kevin		You've met her?
joe		She's kind of a pill.
kevin		She's probably not as attractive as she seems on television either.
joe		No, she's beautiful.  But a pill.
kevin		So you don't feel bad about basically destroying her livelihood not to mention her legacy not to mention her raison d'etre.
joe		It's not personal --
kevin		It's business.
joe		Right.  Exactly.
joe		I sell cheap books.  Sue me.  I sell cheap books, and as a result -- listen to this, because it's really bad -- more people can buy books.
kevin		That's what you said?
joe		 That's not all I said.  I said -- I can't believe those bastards -- I said we were great, I said people can come and sit and read for hours and no one bothers them, I said we stock 150,000 titles, I showed them the New York City section.  I said we were a goddamn piazza where people could mingle and mix and be.
kevin		A piazza?
joe		I was eloquent.  Shit.  It's just inevitable, isn't it?  People are going to want to turn her into Joan of Arc --
kevin		-- and you into Attila the Hun.
joe		Well it's not me personally, it's more like it's the company --
kathleen		 And I have to say, I have met Joe Fox, who owns Foxbooks, and I have heard him compared his store to a Price Club and the books in it to cans of olive oil.
kathleen		My mother used to say to me that every book you sell is a gift from the heart...
schuyler		Who is this Spungeon anyway?
joe		He's a writer.
nelson		Well, I've never heard of him.  And neither has anyone else in this place.
frank		Thank you.
frank		Well, I knew William Spungeon loved children's books so I wrote a provocative column --
frank		And it kind of smoked him out.
kathleen		 Omigod.
frank		Hey, I was just being polite.  Okay, I admit, I slobbered all over her.
george		And I can't decide whether to put sausages into the meat sauce or just chopped meat.  Last time I made it, Detective Carter and I never even sat down to dinner because --  and last night, I made margaritas in the blender, and I took the ice cube and --
birdie		Spare us.
kathleen		Don't tell me.  Not the slightest difference?
birdie		Let's ask her.
birdie		Cecilia, what should we do?
kathleen		Birdie?
birdie		Shhhh.  She has no idea, but she thinks the window display is lovely.  Good night dearie.
kathleen		Oh my goodness, hello.  What are you doing here.
spungeon		Loitering.  Lurking.  Skulking. Stalking.
kathleen		Thank you.  But I'm a wreck.
spungeon		An eyelash.  It's gone.
kathleen		Are you writing another book?
spungeon		I'm in the home stretch.  I'll be done in approximately six more years.
kathleen		Should I discount?
spungeon		It's about a man on a quest for knowledge who meets a woman he cannot resist.
kathleen		If I discount I have to fire someone because I can't discount with this overhead but whom could I fire?  I couldn't fire anyone.
spungeon		You have your mother's hair.  Thick, wild, the color of Nebraska wheat.
kathleen		What are you doing?  Let me go.
kathleen		Stop it.  Are you crazy?
spungeon		 If you change your mind, you can E-mail me.  Hermit@AOL.com.
kathleen		We're meeting in a public place.
christina		Well don't go anywhere with him.  Don't even go out to the street with him afterwards.  Get a dial cab to just sit there and wait for you.
george		Did you tell Frank?
kathleen		There's nothing to tell.
christina		But did you tell him?
kathleen		He's away.  At the 32nd anniversary of the Chicago Seven trial.
george		And he's gone to a place where there are no phones.  Do you even know this guy's name?
christina		And you're going to meet him in a bar?
kathleen		Not a bar.  That place on 83rd with the cheesecake.
george		And he will wear a flower in his lapel, and you will be carrying a copy of Anna Karenina with a rose in it.
christina		Oh God, no.
kathleen		Not Anna Karenina.  Pride and Prejudice.
kevin		I suppose she's carrying a copy of a book with a flower in it.
kevin		Not really.
joe		Really.
kevin		Which Jane Austen is it?
joe		Pride and Prejudice.
kevin		She could be a real dog.
joe		I know.  Look, I'll just stay ten minutes.  I'll say hello.  Drink a cup of coffee and split.  I'm outta here.
joe		What if she has a really high, squeaky voice?  I hate that.  It reminds me of those mice in Cinderella.
kevin		What mice in Cinderella?
joe		Gus-gus and oh shit, I can't remember the other one.  Why am I compelled to meet her?  I'm just ruining a good thing.
kevin		You're taking it to the next level.  I always do that.  I always take a relationship to the next level, and if it works okay I take it to the next level after that, until I can finally get to the level where it becomes absolutely necessary for me to leave.
joe		I'm not going to stay long anyway.  I already said that, didn't I.  Christ. I'm a total wreck.
joe		Kevin, this woman is the most adorable creature I have ever come in contact with.  If she turns out to be even as good-looking as a mailbox, I will be crazy not to turn my life upside down and marry her.
kevin		She could be a real dog.
joe		 You go look.
kevin		Me?
joe		Just go to the window and check her out.
kevin		You're pathetic.
joe		See her?
kevin		There's a beautiful, whoa, a very beautiful girl.
joe		Yes.
kevin		But no book.  Let me see, let me see... Wait a minute.  There's a book with a flower, so it must be her.
joe		What does he look like?
kevin		There's a waiter blocking, I can't see her face.  He's serving her a cup of tea and she's putting in three spoonfuls of sugar --
joe		Well, why shouldn't she?
kevin		No reason.  Unless she has hypoglycemia. Oh, he's moving.
joe		Can you see her?
kevin		Yes.
joe		And? --
kevin		 She's very pretty.
joe		She is.  I knew she would be.  She had to be.
kevin		She looks... I would say she has a little of the coloring of that Kathleen Kelly person.
joe		Kathleen Kelly of the bookstore.
kevin		Why not?  You said you thought she was attractive.
joe		So what?  Who cares about Kathleen Kelly?
kevin		Well, if you don't like Kathleen Kelly, I can tell you right now you ain't gonna like this girl.
joe		Why not?
kevin		Because it is Kathleen Kelly.
joe		Oh, God.
kevin		What are you going to do?
joe		Nothing.
kevin		You're going to let her just wait there?
joe		Yes.  Yes I am.  That's exactly what I'm going to do.  Why not?
kevin		But she wrote the letters.
joe		Good night, Kevin.  I'll see you tomorrow.
man		Do you mind?
kathleen		Oh, yes.  I'm expecting someone. Please.
kathleen		Oh!
joe		Kathleen Kelly.  Hello.  What a coincidence.  Mind if I sit down?
kathleen		Yes I do.  I'm expecting someone.
joe		Pride and Prejudice.
kathleen		Do you mind?
joe		I didn't know you were a Jane Austen fan.  Not that it's a surprise.  I bet you read it every year.  I bet you just love Mr. Darcy, and that your sentimental heart beats wildly at the thought that he and whatever her name is are really, honestly and truly going to end up together.
kathleen		Would you please leave?
kathleen		Please?
joe		I'll get up as soon as your friend comes. Is he late?
kathleen		The heroine of Pride and Prejudice is Elizabeth Bennet and she's one of the greatest, most complex characters ever written, not that you would know.
joe		As a matter of fact I've read it.
kathleen		Well, good for you.
joe		I think you'd discover a lot of things if you really knew me.
kathleen		If I really knew you, I know what I would find -- instead of a brain, a cash register, instead of a heart, a bottom line.
joe		What is it?
kathleen		I just had a breakthrough, and I have to thank you for it.  For the first time in my life, when confronted with a horrible, insensitive person I actually knew what I wanted to say and I said it.
joe		I think you have a gift for it.  It was a splendid mixture of poetry and meanness.
kathleen		Meanness?  Let me tell you --
joe		Don't misunderstand me, I'm just paying you a compliment.
kathleen		Why are you doing this?
joe		What have we have?  A red, no, crimson rose, tucked into the pages.  Something you read about in a book, no doubt.  One of those books with a lady in a nightgown on the cover about to throw herself off a cliff.
joe		It's a joke to you, isn't it? Everything's a joke to you.
joe		You know what the handkerchief reminds me of?  The first day I met you --
kathleen		The first day you lied to me --
joe		I didn't lie to you --
kathleen		You did too --
joe		I did not --
kathleen		I thought all that Fox stuff was so charming.  F-O-X.
joe		I never lied about it --
kathleen		"Joe.  Just call me Joe."  As if you were one of those stupid 22-year-old girls with no last name.  "Hi, I'm Kimberley." "Hi, I'm Janice."  What's wrong with them?  Don't they know you're supposed to have last names?  It's like they're a whole generation of cocktail waitresses.
joe		I am not a stupid 22-year-old girl --
kathleen		That's not what I meant --
joe		And when I said the thing about the Price Club and cans of olive oil, that wasn't what I meant either --
kathleen		Oh, you poor sad multimillionaire.  I feel so sorry for you.
joe		I am going to take a wild guess that this isn't him, either.  Who is he, I wonder. Not, I gather, the world's greatest living expert on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, but someone else entirely. Will you be you be mean to him too?  Will you start out sweet as sugar candy and then suddenly, miraculously, like a bolt from the blue, find that sharp little tongue of yours?
kathleen		No, I won't.  Because the man who's coming here tonight is completely unlike you.  The man who is coming here is kind and funny -- he has the most wonderful sense of humor --
joe		But he's not here.
kathleen		If he's not here, he has a reason, because there is not a cruel or careless bone in his body.  I can't expect you to know anything about a person like that. You've nothing but a suit.
joe		That is my cue.  Good night.
kevin		But underneath that disagreeable exterior she could turn out to be --
joe		A real bitch.  Let's not talk about it. I'm going back to the office.  You must have work to do.
kevin		Not really.  This place is humming like a top.
christina		What happened?
kathleen		He never came.
christina		He stood you up?
kathleen		I think something happened, something terrible and unexpected that made it impossible for him --
george		What happened?
kathleen		He wasn't able to make it.
george		He stood you up.
kathleen		What could have happened? 
christina		Not possible.
kathleen		Maybe there was a subway accident.
christina		Absolutely.
kathleen		A train was trapped underground with him inside.
christina		And no phone.
kathleen		Or an automobile accident.  Those cab drivers are maniacs.
christina		They hit something and you slam right into that plastic partition.
kathleen		His elbows could be in splints -- so he can't really dial --
christina		Or he could be in the hospital in one of those semi-private room with like --
kathleen		 What?
kathleen		What are you saying?
george		It could be.
christina		Is there a picture?
christina		So that explains it.
george		He was in jail.
christina		And there was a phone --
george		-- but he got only one call and he had to use it to call his lawyer.
christina		You are so lucky.
george		You could be dead.
kathleen		Are you crazy?  This man couldn't possibly be the rooftop killer.
christina		Remember when you thought Frank might be the Unabomber?
kathleen		That was different.
christina		How long did you sit there all alone?
kathleen		Not that long.  Joe Fox came in --
christina		Joe Fox!
kathleen		I don't want to talk about it.  Let's get to work.
kathleen		There must be something to do.  There's always something to do.
christina		He stood her up.
computer		Goodbye.
joe		Fuck you.
christina		Did he say anything about meeting again?
kathleen		Not really.  It doesn't matter.  We'll just be like George Bernard Shaw and Mrs. Patrick Campbell and write letters our whole lives --
christina		Where was this taken, Birdie?
birdie		Seville.
kathleen		When you had the thunderbolt?
birdie		Yes.  What did you decide, dearie?
kathleen		Close.  We're going to close.
christina		Close.
kathleen		Although it feels like such a failure. It feels like I'm quitting.  It feels like... Mom...
birdie		Keeping the store open doesn't keep your mother alive, although sometimes I think we all think it does.
christina		Who was it, Birdie?  That you had the thunderbolt over?
birdie		But it wasn't meant to be.
christina		Why not?
birdie		He ran Spain.
christina		Spain?
birdie		The country.  He ran it.  That was his job.  And then he died.  Just as well.
frank		She fell in love with Generalissimo Franco?
kathleen		Don't say that.  We don't know that for sure.
frank		Who else could it have been?  It was probably around 1960 --
kathleen		I mean, it's not like he was something normal, like a socialist or an anarchist or something --
frank		It happened in Spain.  People do really stupid things in foreign countries.
kathleen		Absolutely.  They buy leather jackets, they go see Flamenco, they ride in gondolas, they eat in restaurants where guitarists sing Malaguena sola Rosa, but they don't fall in love with fascist dictators.
kathleen		Birdie is a very kind person, she's practically my surrogate mother.
frank		Well she's out of her mind.
kathleen		She is not.
frank		I could never ever be with anyone who doesn't take politics as seriously as I do.
frank		A hot dog is singing.  You need quiet while a hot dog is singing?
kathleen		I have something to tell you.  I didn't vote.
frank		What?
kathleen		In the last mayoral election, when Rudy Giuliani was running against Ruth Messinger, I went to get a manicure and forgot to vote.
frank		Since when do you get manicures?
kathleen		Oh, I suppose you could never be with a woman who gets manicures.
frank		Forget it.  It's okay.  I forgive you.
kathleen		You forgive me.
frank		What's going on?
frank		Look, this has been a big week, you're closing the store --
kathleen		It's not that, Frank, really it's not. It's just... Frank...
frank		I know, that was terrible of me.
kathleen		What was?
frank		To jump all over you when I'm the one who's really...  Oh, God, I don't know how to say this --
kathleen		What is it?
frank		You're a wonderful person, Kathleen.
kathleen		So are you.
frank		And I'm honored that you want to be with me because you would never be with anyone who wasn't truly worthy --
kathleen		I feel exactly the same way about you.
frank		Oh, God, don't say that, please, that just makes it worse.
kathleen		What?  You don't love me?
kathleen		Me either.
frank		You don't love me?
frank		But we're so right for each other.
kathleen		I know.
kathleen		That woman on television, right? Sidney-Ann.
frank		I mean, nothing's happened or anything.
kathleen		I think she's a Republican.
frank		I can't help myself.
kathleen		Oh, somewhere out there, I'm sure. Somewhere --  In cyberspace.
woman shopper		This is a tragedy.  Honey, grab a copy of The Trumpet of the Swan.
woman shopper		What are you going to do with yourself?
kathleen		I don't know.  I'm going to take some time.  I have a little money saved.  I'm almost looking forward to it --
second shopper		I came here every Saturday when I was a little girl.  I remember when your mother gave me Anne of Green Gables.  "Read it with a box of Kleenex," that's what she told me.
third shopper		She's looking down on you right now.
kathleen		I'm sure she is.
fourth shopper		We should bomb Foxbooks.
kathleen		It's not their fault.  The truth is, the world is just... different.
woman shopper		Do you have the "Shoe" books?
salesperson		The "Shoe" books?  Who's the author?
woman shopper		I don't know.  My friend told me my daughter has to read the "Shoe" books, so here I am.
kathleen		Noel Streatfeild.  Noel Streatfeild wrote Ballet Shoes and Skating Shoes and Theater Shoes and Movie Shoes...  I'd start with Skating Shoes, it's my favorite, although Ballet Shoes is completely wonderful.
salesperson		Streatfeild.  How do you spell that?
kathleen		S-T-R-E-A-T-F-E-I-L-D.
woman shopper		Thank you.
kathleen		 They know nothing, they know absolutely nothing.
joe		Asshole.
patricia		She knows everything.  She has flawless taste.  She's famous for it. The salesmen swear by her.  If she likes it, it sells.  Period.
joe		So you're going to offer her a job?
patricia		Why not?  What else has she got to do?
joe		Now that she's destitute --
patricia		Thanks to you.
joe		Well, I can't imagine her working for you.
patricia		Why not?
joe		She has a horrible personality, she's... nice to everyone all the time.  It's exhausting.  And her staff turnover is ... non-existent.  They've been there forever.  Until... recently, when they all found out they were going to lose their jobs.
patricia		Thanks to you.
joe		Hello, Charlie, Veronica.
patricia		Last time, we rode in an elevator, we made the deal of the century.  What is going to happen this time?
charlie		Miss Grant's going to get me a part in one of her movies, that's what's going to happen.
veronica		In your dream, Charlie.
patricia		 Me!
patricia		Shit.
veronica		Shit.
joe		It is stuck?
charlie		Could be.
joe		Charlie, what are you doing?
charlie		Bang the door.
patricia		Really.
charlie		I hope this thing doesn't plummet to the basement.
veronica		Can it do that?
joe		No.
joe		This is Joe Fox.  Who is this?  Hi, Juan. We're stuck on the sixth floor.  There are four of us --
patricia		 -- and if you don't get your ass up here in two shakes and get us out --
joe		 Are you all right?
veronica		It's hot.
charlie		Everyone should jump in the air.
patricia		What?
charlie		We jump.  The elevator thinks that no one is here and it opens.
joe		One -- two -- three --
veronica		If I ever get out of here, I'm going to start speaking to my mother.  She slept with Oscar, and maybe it was Oscar's fault, I don't know, and then she sold the story to Inside Edition. That could have been Oscar's idea, too. Who knows?  But I divorced him.  I wonder what she's doing right this minute.  I think of her... whenever I hear about a new pill.  Ecstasy, Zoloft, Fenphen, I just think, I hope Mama knows about that.
patricia		Maybe you can make up on Rosie.  That would be so great for the book.
charlie		 If I ever get out of here...
patricia		If I ever get out of here, I'm having my eyes lasered.
charlie		I'm marrying Oreet.  I love her.  I should marry her.  I don't know what's been stopping me.
joe		If I ever get out of here, I'm going to --
patricia		Where is my TicTacs?  What?
george		Then, in the 19th century, Caldecott revolutionized the publishing of children's books by the introduction of color illustrations --
joe		What about going to the Children's Zoo?
annabel		I don't want to go to the Children's Zoo.
joe		Okay.  The Staten Island Ferry.
annabel		I want to go to the Storybook Lady.
matt		I want to go to the Storybook Lady.
joe		Well we can't go to the Storybook Lady.
joe		I'll read you a story.
annabel		Where did she go?
joe		She had to close her store.
annabel		Why?
joe		She didn't have enough business.
annabel		Why?
joe		Well.  Her store was very close to our store, and you know our store sells books at a slightly lower cost --
annabel		Why?
joe		Why do we sell at a lower cost?  So more people can buy books.
annabel		Why couldn't she sell that way too?
joe		Because she's small and we're big.  How about we go get some candy?
annabel		So now she's gone and it's all your fault.
joe		It's business, Annabel.  It's not personal.  How about we go get so much candy you'll be bouncing off the walls for days?
matt		What's personal?
annabel		Personal means that she's gone forever, and now we'll never get another book from her as long as we ever live.
joe		Remember the man who worked with her?
annabel		 No.
joe		Well I hired him.
annabel		You killed the Storybook Lady.
joe		What are you doing here?
nelson		To us.
joe		Father and son, together at last.  That happened with Gillian?
nelson		I've stayed here after, let's see, your mother, Laurette that ballet dancer --
joe		-- the nanny --
nelson		Was she the nanny?  I forgot that.  How ironic.  Then there was the ice skater --
joe		-- also the nanny --
nelson		Really.  How amazingly ironic.  Sybil the astrologer.
joe		Whose moon turned out to be in somebody else's house, as I recall.
nelson		Just like Gillian.
joe		Gillian ran off with someone?
nelson		The nanny.
joe		Nanny Maureen?  Gillian ran off with Nanny Maureen?  That's incredibly ironic.
nelson		True true.
joe		There's no other word for it.
nelson		Who did you break up with?
joe		Patricia.  You met her.
nelson		Would I like her?  Just kidding.  Isn't this great?  Have some peanuts.  Of course I have to live out of a suitcase for a least three weeks, and then there's the inevitable legal hassle, more of your inheritance down the drain.
joe		Don't worry about it.
nelson		I won't.  But then I get to meet someone new.  That's the easy part.
joe		Oh, right, a snap to find the one single person in the world who fills your heart with joy.
nelson		Don't be ridiculous.  Have I ever been with anyone who fits that description? Have you?
joe		On to the next.
nelson		Isn't it a beautiful night?
kathleen		 Who is it?
joe		Joe Fox.
kathleen		What are you doing here?
joe		May I please come up?
kathleen		It's really not a good idea.
kathleen		 I have a terrible cold, can you hear it? I'm sniffling and not really awake --
kathleen's voice		and I'm sleeping practically twenty-four hours a day, and taking echinacea --
kathleen		 -- and vitamin C, so I would really appreciate it if you would come some other time --
joe		Kathleen?
kathleen		Just a second.
joe		Hello.
kathleen		What are you doing here?
joe		I heard you were sick and I was worried and I wanted to --  Is someone here?
kathleen		Just the Home Shopping Network.
joe		Bought any porcelain dolls?
kathleen		I was thinking about it.  You put me out of business --
joe		I know that --
kathleen		And now you turn up with flowers?  Did you come to gloat?
joe		No.
kathleen		To offer me a job --
joe		No, I wouldn't think of --
kathleen		Because I have plans, I have lots of offers.  I've been offered a job by -- well, actually by --
joe		My former?
kathleen		Former?
joe		We broke up.
kathleen		That's too bad.  You seemed so perfect for each other.  I don't mean to say things like that.  No matter what you have done to me, there is no excuse for my saying anything like that.  But every time I see you --
joe		Things like that just seem to fly out of your mouth.
kathleen		Yes.  I'm sorry.  I'm starting over.  Thank you for coming. Goodbye.
joe		I bought you flowers.
kathleen		Oh.  Thank you.
joe		Why don't I put them in water?
joe		You're sick.  Sit down, please.
joe		Vase?
kathleen		Upper left.
joe		George says hello.  He told me you weren't feeling well.
kathleen		How is George?
joe		Great.  He's revolutionizing the place. No one is allowed to work in his department who doesn't have a Ph.D. in children's literature.
kathleen		I love daisies.
joe		You told me.
kathleen		They're so friendly.  Don't you think they are the friendliest flower?
joe		I do.
kathleen		When did you break up?
joe		Oh, a couple of weeks ago.
kathleen		Everyone is breaking up.  You.  Me.  This other person I know broke up with someone in an elevator.  I think it was in an elevator.  Or just outside it.  Or after it.  It got stuck.  I think.  And suddenly everything became clear.  When I saw you, at the coffee place, I was waiting for him and I was --
joe		-- charming.
kathleen		I was not charming.
joe		Well, you looked charming.
joe		Tea?
kathleen		Upper right.
kathleen		I was upset.  And I was horrible.
joe		Honey?
joe		I was horrible.
kathleen		True.  But I have no excuse.
joe		Whereas I am a horrible person and have no choice but to be horrible, is that what you're saying?
kathleen		No I am not saying that because I am done saying horrible things, even to you.
joe		You did it again.
joe		I put you out of business.  You're entitled to hate me.
kathleen		I don't hate you --
joe		But you'll never forgive me.  Like Elizabeth.
kathleen		Who?
joe		Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice. She was too proud --
kathleen		I thought you hated Pride and Prejudice.
joe		-- or was she too prejudiced and Mr. Darcy too proud?  I can never remember.  It wasn't personal --
kathleen		-- It was business.  What is that supposed to mean?  I am so sick of that. All it means is it's not personal to you, but it's personal to me, it's personal to a lot of people.  What's wrong with personal anyway?
joe		Nothing.
kathleen		I mean, whatever else anything is, it ought to begin by being personal.
kathleen		My head's starting to get funny.  I have to go back to bed.
kathleen		Why did you stop by?  I forget.
joe		I wanted to be your friend.
kathleen		Oh.
joe		I knew it wasn't possible.  What can I say?  Sometimes a person just wants the impossible.  Could I ask you something?
kathleen		What?
joe		What happened with that guy at the cafe?
kathleen		Nothing.
joe		But you're crazy about him --
kathleen		Yes.  I am.
joe		Then why don't you run off with him? What are you waiting for?
kathleen		I don't actually know him.
joe		Really.
kathleen		We only know each other -- oh God, you're not going to believe this --
joe		Let me guess.  From the Internet.
kathleen		Yes.
joe		You've Got Mail.
kathleen		Yes.
joe		Very powerful words.
kathleen		Yes.
joe		I'm happy for him.  Although -- could I make a little suggestion?  I think you should meet him.  No.  I take it back. Why meet him?
kathleen		 I hardly think I need advice from someone who --
joe		I concede I bring out the worst in you, but let me help you not to say something you'll just torture yourself about for years to come.
joe		I hope you're better soon.  It would be a shame to miss New York in the spring.
kathleen		Thank you for the daisies.
joe		Take care.
kathleen		I will.
joe		Goodbye.
kathleen		Goodbye.
male runner		Hi.
christina		Hi.
rabbit		Shabbat shalom!
joe		Tweaking?
kathleen		That's what he said.
joe		He's probably married.
kathleen		That's a terrible thing to say.  It's not possible.
joe		Have you asked him if he's married?  Have you said, "Are you married?"
kathleen		No.
joe		So he didn't exactly answer.
kathleen		He did too.  He nailed me.  He knew exactly what I was up to.  Which is just like him.
joe		But he didn't exactly answer, did he? Did he?
kathleen		No.
joe		Maybe he's fat.
kathleen		I don't care about that.
joe		You don't care that he might be one of those guys who's so fat he has to be removed from his house with a crane?
kathleen		That's very unlikely.
joe		Why else do you think he's putting off meeting you?  Although... maybe that's not it.  Maybe...
kathleen		What?
joe		Never mind.
kathleen		What????
joe		He could be waiting til he's paroled.
kathleen		Oh, you won't believe this, there was a moment when George thought he might be the rooftop killer, which was completely ridiculous --
joe		What's his handle?
joe		Come on, I'm not going to write him.  Is that what you think?
joe		One five two.  One hundred fifty two. Very interesting.  He's 152 years old. He has 152 hairs remaining on his head. He's had 152 moles removed and now he has 152 pockmarks.
joe		His combined college board scores.
kathleen		His IQ.
joe		The number of women he's slept with.
kathleen		The number of times he's seen The Godfather.
joe		That's the first good thing I've heard about him.
kathleen		His address.  No, no, no.  He would never do anything that prosaic.
joe		The boat thing?
kathleen		I could never be with anyone who has a boat.
joe		Oh.
kathleen		So that clinches it.  We'll never be together.  I'll take care of these.
joe		How's your book coming?
kathleen		There's a children's book editor I know, from the store, and she's excited to read it.  When I finish it.  Who would ever have thought I'd write?  I mean, if I didn't have all this free time, I would never have discovered --
joe		Mister 152 Felony Indictments --
joe		Yes.  Well.  Can't compete with that.
kathleen		Well.  I keep bumping into you.  Hope your mango's ripe.
joe		I think it is.  Want to bump into me Saturday?  Around lunchtime?
joe		Today?
kathleen		Today.
joe		Whoa.
kathleen		I know.  In Riverside Park.
joe		Isn't that amazing?  Maybe I've seen him, and I don't even know it.
joe		He could be the Zipper Man.
kathleen		Who's that?
joe		This guy on Amsterdam who repairs zippers.  You'll never have to buy new luggage.
kathleen		Stop teasing.
joe		Timing is everything.  He waited until you were primed.  Until you knew there was no other man you could ever love.
kathleen		 Yes.
joe		Sometimes I wonder...
kathleen		What?
joe		If I hadn't been Foxbooks and you hadn't been The Shop Around the Corner and we'd just met --
kathleen		Don't.
joe		I would have asked for your phone number and I wouldn't have been able to wait 24 hours before calling and asking, "How about coffee, drinks, dinner, a movie, for as long as we both shall live?"
kathleen		 Joe...
joe		And then we would never have been at war.
kathleen		No.
joe		The only fight we'd ever have is what video to rent on Saturday night.
kathleen		Who fights about that?
joe		Some people.  Not us.
kathleen		We would never.
joe		If only...
kathleen		Please.  I have to go.
joe		Let me ask you something?  How come you'll forgive him for standing you up and you won't forgive me for a little tiny thing like putting you out of business?
joe		Oh how I wish you would.
kathleen		I really do have to go.
joe		You don't want to be late.
voice		Brinkley!  Brinkley!
joe		Don't cry, Shopgirl, don't cry.
kathleen		I wanted it to be you.  I wanted it to be you so badly.
****Dialogues from script :Youth_in_Revolt.txt****

cut to:		He pulls open the drawer again - the pornography collection.
nick's pov		of the room shaking, accompanied by his heavy breathing. His eyes float from the Hustler to the pink walls of his room.
estelle		Jerry? Where did that car come from? Jerry looks over his shoulder and they all take a moment to appreciate the slab-sided Lincoln in the drive.
jerry		It's a '62 Lincoln convertible. Like the one Kennedy was shot in.
nick		Except his was black and yours is white. And dirty.
jerry		See that. I was going to take you and your mom for a spin after breakfast. But now I guess it'll just be her and me. You have your smart mouth to thank for that.
nick		Damn it. I guess I'll just have to hang out all alone at the book depository.
jerry		The what?
estelle		Jerry, I don't understand. What happened to the Chevy-Nova?
jerry		Sold it to a sailor on the Alameda Naval Air Base. A man should never own a car for more than three months, Estelle. That way he always gets the thrill of owning a new automobile! Jerry smiles with cretin pride. Nick looks to his mother and disturbingly enough, she seems turned on by his car-owner savvy.
nick		He just left. What's up?
nick		Well, I think he used that nine hundred dollars to buy his Lincoln. He's giving my mom a joyride in it now. But he'll be back this afternoon, so I would come back then. He's pretty stubborn. You might have to beat it out of him.
nick		I like it. Very to the point. Well... See you guys this afternoon! The sailors nod, somewhat perplexed by this kid's demeanor. As they turn to go and Nick closes the door...
lefty		My sister said she saw Millie Filbert holding hands with some college guy.
nick		I dunno, Lefty. I think your sister is just waging psychological warfare.
lefty		Well it's working. What am I gonna do, Nick? I'm obsessed. I think about Millie so much my balls ache.
nick		Maybe your just not wacking off enough. As if in response, Lefty passes the binoculars off to Nick and then turns over onto his back and unzips his pants. As Lefty jerks it, Nick looks with nonchalance...
nick		Why don't you just have your parents take you to the dick doctor?
nick		Still, you might want to get it fixed before asking Millie out.
jerry		Nick, you little shit, get down here! Jerry hollers from the kitchen where Estelle gapes out the window. Nick calmly joins them from upstairs.
estelle		Nick, do you know anything about this? She points out the window and they all take in the Chevy and the sailors' oh-so-subtle note on the hood.
nick		Oh, yeah. Those sailors came by. They want their money back. I guess there was a banana in the transmission.
jerry		You tell them when I was coming back?
nick		Now why would I do that? Jerry seeths inwardly at Nick's mock innocence.
estelle		What are you going to do, Jerry?
jerry		I think I'll go get the Lincoln washed.
estelle		You're leaving? What happens when the sailor comes back for his nine- hundred dollars?
jerry		Just tell him he bought the car with my standard guarantee. Thirty days or thirty feet. Whichever comes first. I'm in the right. And on cue comes the ring of the doorbell and the simultaneous pounding of angry Navy fists on the back door. They peer out the window and find the fleet on the front steps.
nick		Oh, look. The sailors are here. Jerry first starts to dart one way and then another, searching for a hiding space as he hisses.
jerry		Get rid of them! And then the front door gets kicked open and a mob of sailors pour in. Jerry flees. A HANDHELD CAM chase as he heads for the back and is cut off by the sailors coming in. Jerry bolts up the stairs.
nick		Jerry, where are you going? Just tell them you are in the right.
jerry		That's my life savings! One of the sailors pokes Jerry in the gut hard and he whimpers.
estelle		Don't hurt him! Nick, call 911!
jerry		Please. Please don't hurt me. It's all I got, guys. I swear. Take the Lincoln!
nick		Eight hundred and thirty seven, actually.
jerry		Wow, those guys are even dumber than I thought. They actually think I'm stupid enough to let them muscle me into paying.
estelle		Jerry, what are you talking about? We need to call the police!
jerry		I'm not some tattle-tale like your son. Nick rolls his eyes.
estelle		Then for God's sake, Jerry, just sell the Lincoln and pay them!
jerry		Can't. It's in The Code.
estelle		What code? The vehicular code?
jerry		Code of the streets, Babe. Code of the streets.
estelle		Then what are you planning to do? Jerry takes a seat at the kitchen table and adopts The Thinker pose. He strokes his chin as Nick and Estelle await his brilliant solution with breathless anticipation.
estelle		Goodbye, everyone! We're going on vacation!
jerry		Let's blow!
estelle		Jerry...? You said it was a cabin. In the back, Nick removes his sunglasses to regard the long, green, turd of a trailer. Some concrete dwarves in the grass. A dusty canvas awning over a small cement patio. A decrepit picket fence with a sign that reads: MY GREEN HAVEN. Estelle looks as if she's about to cry. Jerry puts his arm around her.
jerry		C'mon Estelle. It's real cute on the inside.
jerry		I say the kid does the dishes and we retire to the master bedroom. Jerry pushes out and disappears into the back. Nick watches him with loathing. Estelle smiles apologetically.
nick		Mom? Do you really like Jerry? Her smile fades.
estelle		Nick, how   many men do you think there are   who'd be interested in a forty-one   year old woman with two brats, no   money, and stretch marks? And with that she excuses herself, leaving Nick to ponder.  NICK  It's your neighbor, Mrs. Saunders. Church services begin at seven fifteen prompt. Donuts will be served. Nick glances down at the morning wood elevating his boxers. Mrs. Saunders narrows her eyes at Nick through the screen door and takes off.  EXT. MY GREEN HAVEN - DAY  Nick steps out of the trailer in a bathrobe, toiletries in one hand, towel in the other. He heads off down the wooded path.  EXT. WOODS - DAY  The serene melodies of rousing HYMNS float from the well- attended congregation in the meeting hall. WE TRACK across the trees as Nick makes his way down the path. He slows to observe the sun coming through the canopy overhead. He glances off the path and comes to a sudden stop. A grape arbor flanked by Corinthian columns set against the blue of Clear Lake. A chestnut haired SHEENI SAUNDERS stands facing the water, her head tilted down to read the book in her hands. The wind coming off the lake blows her dress just enough to give a hint of the shapely thighs underneath.
sheeni		Your robe is open. Nick looks down. He pulls the robe closed, scowls, and goes into a flustered march down the path.
sheeni		Hel-lo, Excitable Boy.
estelle		Nick, honey, meet Sheeni Saunders.
nick		Hello.
estelle		Sheeni needs to go to the grocery store. I've offered her your help in carrying her bags. Nick regards Sheeni and her mischievous smirk.
nick		Thanks a pantsful.
nick		You don't have to go to services?
sheeni		No. Much to the consternation of my fanatical parents I have converted to atheism. Fortunately my brother, Paul, paved the way for such transgressions.
nick		Paul is an atheist too?
sheeni		Buddhist, I believe, though we have not seen him in some time. I myself am looking forward to being free of parental bondage.
nick		Likewise.
sheeni		Well, your mother seems very nice, though your father I think might be rather dim.
nick		Jerry and I share no blood links of any kind. As they pass the meeting hall there comes a surge of HYMNS in chorus.
nick		Sounds rather zealous.
sheeni		Yes, even though I am no longer a believer I always found the services wonderfully aerobic.
nick		You could say the same thing about sex. Sheeni stops. She looks at Nick intently.
sheeni		Nick, are you going to turn out like all the other young men and have nothing on your mind except carnal pleasures?
nick		I hardly ever think about sex.
sheeni		Really? I think about it all the time. It's the hormones at work, you know. She resumes walking. Nick follows her with confusion.
nick		Wow. A second floor.
sheeni		Yes. Father bought it so that he could look down upon the world. For him, Christian humility has always been a struggle. Sheeni relieves him of the watermelon.
sheeni		Well, it was nice to meet you, Nick. She trudges down the slate path to the home.
nick		Sheeni? Do you want to come to the beach with me? She turns around. Gives a little smirk.
sheeni		What a thoughtful invitation. I'd love to, Nick. Wait for me in the living room.
sheeni		Back in a moment.
nick		Er, yes, Mr. Saunders.
sheeni		Let's go, Nick. Bye, Father.
sheeni		Would you mind applying this to my exposed areas?
nick		Not at all.
sheeni		My, you get turned on easily. Nick's hands freeze.
sheeni		Oh, don't stop, Nick. We all have our hormones to deal with. Girls are fortunate in that it doesn't show. For all the world knows, my vagina could be moist with desire as we speak.
nick		Is it?
sheeni		That's none of your business, I'm sure. Shall you do my front too?
nick		I'm up for it. She rolls over onto her back, her young breasts straining up against the yellow spandex.
sheeni		I hope you don't find it too stimulating, Nick.
nick		I'm coping. He starts in on her flawless legs, gliding on the oil all the way within a finger's reach of her sweet apex. With each daring pass, he comes closer to that final split. Finally the hand swerves too late, and lightly grazes the softly yielding vee.
sheeni		Uh, Nick. Maybe you better do the top now. Nick moves up, lubricating her arms, shoulders and neck. He smooths the oil on the soft undulating foothills.
sheeni		Thanks, Nick.
sheeni		Breathless is one of my favorite films, though it might be eclipsed by Rebel Without a Cause. I often wonder what American cinema would be like today had Dean done more than three. Nick nods, and for a beat they trek on in silence. He glances down at her hand and fumbles for it with his own.
sheeni		Oh, Nick. You seem very nice. But in fairness, I should tell you that I have a boyfriend. Nick becomes sickeningly pale.
nick		What's his name?
sheeni		Trent Preston.
nick		What's he like?
sheeni		Seventeen years of age, six-two, fluent in French, plays the piano, a champion swimmer, and writes Futurist Percussive poetry. They stop at the gate to the Saunders' home.
nick		I'm not familiar with Futurist Percussive poems.
sheeni		I could recite one of Trent's if you'd like.
nick		Please do. She takes a dramatic pause.
sheeni		RamDam 12/ Sizzle mop/ Crunch down/ Safety net/ Hot! Hot! Hot!/ Void. She gives a slightly amused smile at Nick's blank expression.  NICK  3 AM. I decide I am too chicken for any of the manly, violent means of suicide. I shall swallow sleeping pills. Where to get them, though?
nick		Good morning!
sheeni		Nick? God what time is it?
nick		Seven o'clock. How about breakfast?
sheeni		 Come back in two hours. I'm going on a hike. You can join me if you'd like. She closes the door.
sheeni		Nick, where are your hiking boots, water bottle, provisions, survey maps and compass?
nick		Like John Muir I enter the wilderness with nothing more than my journal and a childlike sense of wonder.
sheeni		Okay, but I have no plans to baby any slackers.
nick		Quite a drop.
sheeni		Yes. Not to be morbid, but this sight has been the chosen means of at least three teen suicides.
nick		Huh. Quite a hike just to end your life.
sheeni		Well, there is a road. But I agree. Adolescents have a tendency toward the over-dramatic. Sheeni backs away. Nick stays, staring over the edge.
nick		That's my journal!
sheeni		Don't get so upset Nick. Though your handwriting is egregious, you have a fairly decent vocabulary. Although, Trent is not an "affected twit." Nick snatches the journal out of her hands.
nick		Those are my private thoughts and are none of your business!
sheeni		Nick?
nick		What?
sheeni		The lengths you say you are willing to go to to win my heart, the contemplation of suicide at the thought of not having me...  It all evokes a strong emotional warmth in my breast. Nick can only stare at her sprawled out on her back as if posing for a centerfold.
sheeni		Did you mean it, Nickie? A beat as he is lost in the ocean of her gaze before he manages to gain his senses.
nick		How would you like it if I read your journal?
sheeni		You can read it if you'd like.
nick		It's in French.
sheeni		A necessity for a child in a household with prying Christian parents.
nick		What does it say?
sheeni		Wouldn't you like to know. That last passage would be of particular interest to you. Nick leaps on top of her, grabbing her thin wrists. She squeals and giggles.
nick		Spill it! I demand full disclosure!
sheeni		Never! They wrestle, perspiring, squirming bodies brushing together. Flashing super:        Thundering Erection They pause. He's got her arms pinned. She's on her back. He hovers above her.
sheeni		 Nickie's got a hard-on. Nick considers her expression.
sheeni		You're still a virgin, I can tell. Maybe that's why I like you. A beat. She looks at him expectantly. Nick is at a loss.
sheeni		Kiss me, you wienie. Nick tentatively approaches her luscious mouth. Their noses dodge successfully and their lips meet. After a long moment, they break it off. Staring into each other's eyes. Sheeni jumps up.
sheeni		Okay, lover. Break's over. Let's go! Nick lays in the grass a moment, watching after her.
nick		When can I see you again?
sheeni		Get up early tomorrow and you can shower with me in the ladies room. Five minutes to six. If you dare. Nick grins with excitement.
estelle		So what's this Sheeni girl like?
nick		She's the Encyclopedia Britannica.
jerry		She's got a nice rack.
estelle		Jerry! Jerry chuckles. Nick stares at him, perhaps resolving to murder the trucker in his sleep.
sheeni		Get out quick! Still wearing her robe, she dives into the spray to save her mother. Nick grabs his robe and retreats.
nick		Should I go to the sheriff's now?
sheeni		No. I managed to convince Mother you were retarded and couldn't read the sign.
nick		Say, where were you anyway?   We said five minutes to six.
sheeni		I'm sorry. But, Nick, women are always discreetly late. It's expected of us.
nick		Swell. And the punctual guy fries in the chair for rape.
sheeni		Don't complain. At least you got to shower with a naked woman.  What are your plans today?
nick		My parents want to go to Middletown. Jerry has the moronic notion of buying a trailer there before we leave.
sheeni		I should like to come with you, Nick. The more time we spend together the better. I fear when you leave we might never see each other again. Nick nods glumly. Clearly a devastating thought.
jerry		What's your cash price?
geezer		I said in the ad. Thousand dollars firm.
jerry		Thousand, huh? That must be with a guarantee.
geezer		As is, where she is.
jerry		I don't know. Those rusty propane tanks are a fire hazard. The roof probably needs work. I couldn't go above eight hundred. The geezer ponders the bad news. Estelle shakes her head and goes inside the RV to inspect.
geezer		I might take nine fifty.
jerry		Nine hundred. Sheeni lets out a squeal of delight. They all turn their attention to where she has discovered a box full of squirming
sheeni		Look, Nick! She shows him the ugly little pug. Short droopy ears, a tiny, batlike face.
nick		Great.
sheeni		 How much?
geezer		Ten dollars. Sheeni turns to Nick pleadingly. Nick fishes through his wallet.
nick		All I have is a Subway card with four stickers.
geezer		Sold.
nick		No doubt close to the dog's actual value.
sheeni		Oh, thank you, Nickie! She plants a kiss on his lips and promptly turns her attention to the dog, who licks her face affectionately. Nick looks on with appropriate jealousy.
sheeni		I'm going to name him Albert. 
geezer		That don't sound like any kind of name for a dog.
sheeni		 I'll have you know I've named him after the deceased French writer, Albert Camus. Author of L'Etranger and other works of existential brilliance. The geezer looks to Nick with an expression of "I stand corrected." Nick returns with a nod that says "You have no idea."
nick		Sheeni, I think I love you.
sheeni		Well, your hormones certainly do. And oddly enough, my hormones like you too.
nick		Sheeni? It's... It's okay. We can visit each other when I get a drivers license.
sheeni		I hope that's true, but.. It's not that. It's...
nick		What?
sheeni		It's my parents. They're... I fear they will never allow me to keep Albert.
nick		Oh. Nick tries to hide his hurt. Picks up the paper with annoyance.
nick		No way.
sheeni		At least you could consider it, honey. For me. I've never asked you for anything before.
nick		Maybe I could take him, but I'd have certain conditions. I would have to be the only dad on the scene.  Trent would have to go.
sheeni		That's asking a lot. Trent worships the ground I walk on.
nick		It's your choice. Life with me and the dog you love. Or a pet-free existence with a shallow, egotistical poet.
sheeni		OK, Nick, I guess I don't have any choice. I'll break up with Trent. But if he kills himself it's on your conscience.
nick		I accept full responsibility.
sheeni		Well, good, that's settled.
nick		Not quite, darling. I want one more thing.
sheeni		What?
nick		What do you think? A beat. Sheeni looks pensive. It fades to amusement.
sheeni		Do you have a condom? Nick lifts his eyebrows. Now we're getting somewhere!
sheeni		It has to be in a safe place. A nice comfortable bed. With no threat of interruptions. And for relaxation and mood setting some good red wine, preferably French. I want a new condom. Not one that's been riding around in your wallet for years. Consumers rated them a while back. I suggest you get their top-rated brand. This may take some research in the library. I'd appreciate a photocopy of the article. Plus, for supplementary protection, I want a name brand spermicide.
nick		How about I have a quick vasectomy just to be on the safe side?
sheeni		 Well, Nick, that, of course, is up to you.
estelle		Nick, honey, say goodbye to Sheeni. It's time to hit the road. Nick watches Sheeni kiss Albert. He looks less than enthused at the thought of sloppy-seconds. Finally Sheeni hands Nick the dog. Nick and Sheeni stand there an awkward beat. Sheeni leans in and gives him a peck on the cheek.
sheeni		 Don't forget, darling. Red wine and Consumer Reports. She smiles. They're the sexiest words Nick's ever heard. He grabs her and kisses her deeply. Jerry HONKS the horn and they break off.
jerry		Okay. Back to civilization! He fires up the Lincoln and they kick up dust. Albert slobbers all over Nick. Nick sets him down and watches Sheeni in the side-mirror, waving in the road.
jerry		You see that, Babe. They caved.
nick		I guess they didn't cave after all. Jerry pops the hood and lets out a whistle.
jerry		Boy, everything's complete. There's even water in the windshield washer.
estelle		How did they ever get it in here? My front door can't be more than three feet wide.
jerry		Looks like they brought it in piece by piece and then reassembled it.
estelle		But it would take an army of mechanics to do all that! Jerry slams down the hood.
jerry		Or a navy, Babe. Or a navy.
estelle		Nick, your sister came all the way from LA for a weekend visit! Nick and Joanie meet eyes. She lifts a quizzical eyebrow.
nick		Stellar.
jerry		Can someone do something about the mutt? The family dines over take-out fried chicken. Jerry kicks Albert and the puppy goes tumbling across the floor.
estelle		I don't know, Jerry. Can someone do something about the monstrosity dripping oil in my living room?
joanie		Yeah, I noticed that. What's the story?
nick		Jerry tried to outsmart a few sailors. It's been an amusing saga. Jerry contemplates smacking Nick upside the head, but decides against it when he discerns Estelle is probably in her son's corner.
jerry		OK, Babe, I guess when I come back from my next haul I'll just have to take it apart piece by piece.
joanie		Up to anything scandalous these days, Nick?
nick		I was going to ask you the same thing.
joanie		What do you mean? Nick puffs out his chest. Joanie looks down at her boob-job.
joanie		Not that it's any of your business, but I've taken a class to improve my posture. Nick rolls his eyes.
estelle		I think Joanie looks very nice. And she has a new boyfriend too.
nick		Did you meet him in posture class?
estelle		Nick met a nice girl in Ukiah.
joanie		Really now? Are you on each others' Myspace pages?
nick		Hardly. Sheeni believes the internet will be the end of literacy.
joanie		So it's to be a torturous snail mail exchange, huh?
nick		More like the occassional collect call.
estelle		Collect calls? And just who do you expect to pay for that? Jerry kicks the dog away from his sock. Albert growls and prepares for another charge.
jerry		Hey, Nick. Want to learn how a car is put together?
nick		No, thanks. Auto mechanics doesn't interest me.
jerry		See, Estelle, I told you the kid was queer-eeAAAAHHHHH! Jerry lurches backward in the chair and lands on the floor, revealing that Albert's teeth have a firm grasp on Jerry's sack. The dog shakes the scrotum in his jaws.
jerry		Damn it! The dog! He tries to swipe Albert with his beer bottle, but the dog retreats into the house, leaving Jerry rolling around on the floor. Joanie and Nick exchange a smile. The phone rings. Estelle gets up to answer it.
estelle		Nick, put the dog in the basement.
estelle		Nick, that was your father on the phone. He lost his job.
nick		How unlike him.
estelle		Watch your smart mouth. This means the end of child support.
nick		Which means...
estelle		You'll have to start going to...
nick		Hello?
nick		Absolutely. Nick looks around, opens the door to the linen closet and darts inside.
nick		Sheeni? How are you?
nick		And how is Trent? Not too suicidal I hope.
sheeni		Of course, he was disconsolate, but we talked all day and he's come to see this as an opportunity for growth. Oh, and Nick, Trent wanted me to tell you that he bears you no ill will.
nick		Nor I him. I wish him all the best.
sheeni		His parents are sending him to a French speaking boarding school this year. He's sure to get along there. So how is my darling Albert?
nick		Well, though he's taken a disliking to Jerry.
sheeni		And you, Nickie? How are you?
nick		I regret, Love of My Life, my father has lost his job and I will now be forced to go to public school.
sheeni		How unfortunate. What did he do?
nick		He's a writer - sort of. He writes advertising copy.
sheeni		Really?  Nick, I suggest we look at your father's firing as a blessing in disguise.
nick		How so?
sheeni		I propose we get your father a job here in Ukiah and you can come and live with him.
nick		Brilliant. Not that I'm fond of Ukiah, but I'd live in a drainage culvert to be with you.
sheeni		Oh, Nickie. Now, I happen to know Progressive Plywood is looking for an assistant editor. It would be perfect for your father. Nick furrows his brow with skepticism.
nick		I had no idea you had knowledge of the employment opportunities of trade magazines.
sheeni		The owner is the father of a friend of mine.
nick		Anyone I know?
sheeni		Okay, it's Trent's father. So what?
nick		So why would Trent want to help my father move to Ukiah?
sheeni		I told you, darling. Trent harbors you no ill will. I will have him call your father up pretending to be a head hunter.
nick		Very well, but I don't see how I am to live with him. My mother values my indentured servitude.
sheeni		You must influence her to send you away. I feel this will require being in a constant state of open revolt on your part.
nick		What do you want me to do?
sheeni		I propose you rent the film Rebel Without a Cause as soon as possible. You must emulate James Dean... CLOSE ON her GLOSSY LIPS.
sheeni		...You must be bad, Nickie. Be very, very bad. A glint of resolve in Nick's eyes.
nick		I will, darling. I will! And in pre-lap comes the DING DONG of the doorbell.
estelle		Kids? This is Officer Lance Wescott. He has some bad news. After a beat, Nick rolls down the window.
lance		Your mother's friend Jerry had a heart attack in a bar in Dallas. He's dead. Estelle sobs, but isn't joined by her children. She turns to Lance.
estelle		Will they be sending his belongings?
lance		Uh... I'm afraid they've already been sent. To his wife. Beat. Nick looks to Joanie. They both look to their mother.
estelle		His... His wife?!? She bursts into tears and collapses into Officer Lance Wescott's arms.
lance		There, there, Ma'am. It's going to be okay. Nick watches his mother sobbing against the cop's chest for a beat before he rolls up the window and he and Joanie resume watching the movie. Estelle's cries of despair become...
nick		Hello, Franois. I think you'll do nicely.
franois		Oui, I am ze perfect match pour une Francophile for ze likes of Sheeni Saunders. I have ze calculating intelligence...
nick		...the itchy trigger finger... Franois cocks the machine-gun.
nick		Damn! Those hippos are taking a shower together. How repulsive! He slams the door.
albert's pov		as we lunge at Lance's crotch.
nick		Where's Joanie?
estelle		She's sleeping in.
nick		No doubt. I don't think anyone got a wink last night with all that racket. Lance looks at him, seething inwardly. He glances to Estelle.
nick		I thought there were laws in this city against illicit cohabitation. Or are they just another big policeman's joke?
lance		Kid, you are asking for trouble.
nick		What are you going to do? Shoot me with your gun? Lance lunges across the table.
estelle		No, Lance! Nickie, go to your room. Nick flings down his napkin and heads for the front door.
estelle		Where do you think you're going?
nick		Out! The screen door slams behind him.
estelle		What the in God's name has gotten into you?!? Jerry paid good money for that trailer!
nick		And just what makes you so sure it was me?
estelle		Who the hell else would write such a thing? Estelle gestures to the trailer, which we can see has been defaced with the words GOD'S PERFECT ASSHOLE.
estelle		And just how do you explain this? She holds up a semi-nude Polaroid of Lacey.
nick		That's Lacey.
estelle		And just who the hell is Lacey?
nick		Dad's girlfriend. Estelle stares at the photo, face contorted by revulsion and envy.
estelle		His girlfriend? What are you doing with a picture like this of your father's girlfriend?
joanie		C'mon, Mom, all boys his age have pictures like that to...
estelle		When I want your opinion on raising my child, I'll ask for it. (to Nick; morbidly
nick		Well, she likes fast cars and takes a lot of naps with dad. Super:             
nick		She likes to sit on Dad's lap while he eats and blow in his ear. Super:           
nick		And she calls him "Thunder Rod" and he calls her "Sugar Puss." Super:        At this point Estelle has turned bright red.
estelle		You are confined to your room until school starts, you sick pervert. She stalks off. Joanie glances over at Nick with amusement.
nick		I wish I was leaving with you tonight.
joanie		Your day will come. I never thought mine would, but it did. Was all that stuff about Lacey and Dad made up?
nick		I wish. Did you really take a posture class?
joanie		Implants. I wanted them all my life.
nick		Hey, Lefty.
lefty		What's with your mom, Nick? She gave me the third degree just to come up here.
nick		I vandalized Jerry's trailer and she found my picture of Lacey.
lefty		Well, good thing I stole this from the bookstore then. Lefty unzips his backpack and produces a large hardbound volume titled Lovemaking for Advanced Gourmets.
lefty		I was reading it all last night. Boy, having sex is a lot more complicated than I thought. Did you know you were supposed to stick your pinkie in her bumhole?
nick		You lie.
lefty		No way, man. Here, I got the page marked. Lefty flops down on the sofa next to Nick and the two of them flip through the manual.
nick		Yeah, but I'm not sure I should try this on Sheeni. I think this book is for people who've been married so long they're disgusted by the sight of each other. They regard the illustrated figures of men and women in various states of foreplay.
lefty		Are we really supposed to be that... uh... big?
nick		I think these illustrations are disproportionate for emphasis.
lefty		Maybe we should compare.
nick		Perhaps we should. Just for the sake of research. Nick and Lefty get to their feet and stand opposite each other like a pair of duelists. They simultaneously undo their belts and pull their pants and underwear to their feet. They straighten. Lefty's eyes fall to Nick's crotch. He gets a hint of concern in his expression. Nick stares at Lefty's, tilting his head to compensate for the curvature. The door behind them opens and Estelle appears toting Nick's lunch. She lets out a scream. The boys turn to face her, pants around their ankles.
estelle		You won't get away! I'm calling your parents! PERVERTS! Nick bursts from the room, desperately trying to buckle his pants. Estelle is hot on his heels, wielding the hardbound sex manual as they round the bannister.
estelle		In my house! How dare you! She catches up to Nick at the top of the stairs and cracks him upside the head.
estelle		Nick, I just want you to know that I've thought about it, and I've accepted that you are gay.
nick		Thanks a pantsful, but I'm not gay. If you're really concerned though, I suggest you get me a room at the Ukiah Motel 6. If anyone can straighten me out, it's Sheeni. She looks at him dubiously and hands out the phone.
estelle		That sounds more like a job for your father. Here, he wants to talk to you. Nick takes the phone from her hands and she closes the door.
nick		 Hello?
george		So what's this I hear about you being gay? George sprawls on the couch, cradling the phone with one hand, and holding a beer on his stomach with the other. WE  INTERCUT.
nick		What's this I hear about you being unemployed?
george		Yes, but my condition is only temporary. I can change it.
nick		I hope you do. We need the money.
george		Nick, there are more important things in life than money.
nick		I know, Dad. Like getting a good education. And being able to respect your parents.
george		I've got two words for you. Safe sex.
nick		Thanks, Dad. He hangs up the phone.
nick		Hello, uh... My name is Nick. Nick Twisp. My father's name is George Twisp.
nick		Not lately. But he's missed several child support payments, and is not looking for work. So now I'm going to public school in Oakland.
nick		Yes. And he's had an offer from a respectable publication in Ukiah.
nick		Hey, Lefty. How's it hangin'?
lefty		You'll never believe who called me, Nick. Millie Filbert!
nick		What?!? Why?
lefty		I dunno. She just called and asked if I wanted to hang out tonight. I didn't want to ask why. I need to find someplace for us to get it on. Albert squats to poop in someone's yard. The boys pause to wait for him.
nick		You can use my house if you want.
lefty		Really?
nick		Sure. My Mom and Lance are going to a movie and I'm planning on stealing Jerry's trailer and torching it in a parking lot, so you'll have the whole house to yourself.
lefty		Right on. Albert finishes his business and they resume walking.
nick		So where you headed anyway?
lefty		Dr. Browerly's office. My parents are making me see a shrink now.
nick		He asking lots of weird questions?
lefty		You bet your left nut he is! He asked if I had any lustful thoughts toward my sister.
nick		What did you tell him?
lefty		I told him about beating off once with her brassiere.
nick		What did you tell him that for?
lefty		You don't know what it's like. I think they release chemicals in their office to make you tell the truth.
nick		Sounds like a professional. He must be very expensive.
lefty		I wouldn't know. The bill goes to your house.
nick		My mom is paying for your therapy?
lefty		I guess so. It was your cyclops I was staring at.
nick		Yes, but it was your idea.
lefty		That's true. Gee, maybe I am gay.
nick		Don't be retarded. We were doing research for our girlfriends.
lefty		Oh, right. I forgot. That's a relief. So you'll leave the door open?
nick		Yeah, just don't blow your load on my sheets.
lefty		Thanks a pantsful, Nick.
nick		Don't mention it. See ya, Lefty.
estelle		Lance and I are walking down to the movie theater. There's TV dinners in the freezer. Oh, and Nick - your father got a job in Ukiah.
nick		Mom? Do you think it might be a good idea if I moved in with him?
estelle		Nick, that just wouldn't work. I depend on that child support money to eat.
nick		But shouldn't you depend on the child support money for, you know... child support?
estelle		Watch your smart mouth. She slams the door.  EXT. ESTELLE'S HOME - DAY
nick		Oh no! I forgot to set the brake! The DRIVER OF THE FIAT bolts after the accelerating Lincoln, but as he realizes the futility, slows to a jog. The driver turns to see he forgot to set his own brake, and desperately rolls out of the way of the Fiat. MOTORISTS slam on their brakes as the speeding trailer crosses four lanes of traffic. It jumps the curb crashing into the plate glass window of a gourmet sausage shop. A cop car lights up and speeds into the intersection, just in time to get clipped by the Lincoln. The cop car goes into a tail spin, smashing into a chicken transport. The flock of feathered inmates fly for freedom.
nick		Hey, Mom! How was the movie?
lance		You little shit. You stole your mother's dead ex-boyfriend's trailer and set a five million dollar fire.
estelle		Nick! They have a description of the arsonist! Lance flips through his notebook and reads.
lance		A white teenage male, about five- seven. A hundred and twenty five pounds, dark hair, spotted complexion...
nick		That could be anyone.
lance		He was also wearing a tee shirt with the words: I'm single, let's mingle. Nick glances down at the lettering on his shirt. Oops. Estelle bursts into tears.
estelle		What am I going to do? My only son will be sent to prison! Lance takes Estelle in his arms and smirks at Nick.
estelle		Oh, Lance, can't something be done?
lance		Tell you what, Estelle. I'll make out that Nick reported the car and trailer stolen before the fire. It'll be less suspicious. But I could take some serious heat for this.
estelle		Oh, Lance! You're wonderful! How can I possibly repay you?
lance		I'll think of something, Estelle. He gives her ass a playful squeeze. She lets out a giggle.
lance		Now the kid better not be here when the detectives start coming around. I'd send him away for a while. A long while.
estelle		He can go make his father's life miserable! Nick suddenly brightens.
nick		But I like it here.
estelle		You're going, buster! She snatches up the phone and dials. George's groggy voice can be heard answering. Estelle screams into the phone.
estelle		You're son just burned down half of Berkeley! Come and get the little brat!
lance		Wait a minute, Estelle, aren't you going to punish him? I'd say he deserves a good hiding.
estelle		(cupping the squawking
nick		Are you through? Lance looks around the room. Picks up an umbrella and considers it in his hand. Nick hangs his head.
nick		I was wondering what happened to you. Did you get to blow your wad?
lefty		No. I did not get to blow my wad.
nick		Did you get interrupted?
lefty		No. Worse.
nick		What's worse than being interrupted?
lefty		Millie is a lesbian.
lefty		The only reason she wanted to hang out with me is because she heard that I showed you my slinky and thought I was gay too.
nick		Sorry, man. I didn't have a great night either.
lefty		Well, I dunno what you're gonna do, but I'm giving suicide serious consideration this time.
nick		Or you could just fake it and then hide out in Ukiah with me. Then later come back and maybe Millie Filbert will boink you out of pity.
lefty		Hey, that's not a bad idea. Thanks a pantsful, Nick. A pair of headlights swing into the drive and Lefty ducks out of sight. The headlights turn out to belong to George Twisp's
lacey		Hiya, Nick!
nick		Hi, Lacey. Hi, Dad. The trunk pops open.
nick		Is there any way I could sit up front with Lacey, Dad? Mom's boyfriend beat me pretty badly.
george		Sorry, Nick. In this car, faggots get the back seat.
george		My God. Look what you've done. Lacey turns to look at Nick over the seat. They share a smile.
george		Go ahead and bring your stuff inside. Lacey and I need a nap. C'mon, Sugar Puss. Nick watches longingly as George leads Lacey into the home. As he places his hand on Lacey's ass, he looks back over his shoulder and throws a smug look in Nick's direction.
nick		Uhm, hello. Is Sheeni available?
nick		Excuse me?
nick		That rat-fink-fuck!
nick		Santa Cruz! But she'll be miserable without me. We're in love. The ogre snorts in condescending amusement.
sheeni		Nick! Oh, Nick! Nick lights up at the sight of her and they embrace. They kiss passionately. He works his way to her neck and starts to reach under the sweatshirt.
sheeni		I had to sneak away just to see you.
nick		That's okay. I had to burn down half of Berkley.
sheeni		That was you? Nick, are you out of your mind?
nick		I felt a grand gesture was required, darling. Sheeni's expression indicates that she is touched, but it turns to troubled.
sheeni		Nick, Trent betrayed us.
nick		Franois will kill him later.
sheeni		Who's Franois?
nick		Nevermind. The point is we must elope. Sheeni takes a step back at the notion.
sheeni		I don't know, Nick. I do love you, but I don't want to spend the rest of our lives on the run.
nick		It's a small price to pay. She takes another step back.
sheeni		I... I can't, Nick.
nick		What?!? But, Sheeni. I just don't get it. I'm here. Albert's here too.
sheeni		I know, Nick, and I've been longing for you so. But we'll just have to find another way. The car is already packed. Nick nods glumly and Sheeni seems overcome with remorse.
sheeni		Nick Twisp, I will not allow you to accept defeat so easily!
nick		Or we could consummate here in the woods.
sheeni		Did you bring the consumer reports? Nick just blinks blankly.
sheeni		Then it will have to be Santa Cruz. I really must go now, darling.
nick		Well... Goodbye, Sheeni. I love you.
sheeni		I love you too. Squeeze darling Albert for me. She pulls her hood over her head. Nick watches wistfully as she slips away into the forest.
cut to:		Nick does his best to not be pinned by DWAYNE CRAMPTON, who out-weighs him by at least 40 pounds.
dwayne		Sorry `bout wompin' ya. I'm Dwayne.
nick		Nick. Nick Twisp.
dwayne		Say, Nick? Why do you suppose guys got only two testicles when we got ten fingers and toes?
nick		I could not begin to speculate. Nick turns off his shower and slinks away.
paul		Hey, Nick. I'm Paul, Sheeni's brother. Nick comes up the path to meet him.
nick		Hello, Paul. How did you know my name?
paul		We've met.
nick		No we haven't.
paul		In a previous life.
nick		Oh. Paul begins rolling a joint.
paul		Nice fire in Berkeley.
nick		Did Sheeni tell you that was me?
paul		She didn't have to.
nick		Why? Was I an arsonist in a previous life?
paul		No. But Sheeni was.
nick		My God. What did she burn?
paul		Men. Men and boys. Paul hands the joint out to Nick. He regards it dubiously.
nick		My God, Franois! What was Paul smoking?
francois		Shut up and go with it. Nick shrugs and opens the top dresser drawer, revealing Lacey's lingerie. Nick starts dancing, doing a strip tease for himself. WE PAN AROUND the room, and when we reach Nick again, he's wearing nothing but a pair of Lacey's thongs. He models in front of the mirror, regarding his bulging T.E. He removes a C-cup bra and holds it high. He uses the elastic straps to fasten the bra onto his head. He starts dancing up a storm to the cheesy Vengaboys rendition of BRAZIL in his head. Waving arms. Bicycling leg movements.
george		What the... What the hell? Nick gives a startled jump.
lacey		Is..? Is that my bra?
george		We're calling that fruitcake display strike one. Two more strikes and it's back to Oakland. Nick nods. The front door opens and MRS. CRAMPTON enters with Safeway bags of her own. Dwayne follows close behind her.
dwayne		Hey, Nick! Albert barks and jumps at Dwayne's feet.
nick		Uh... Hi, Dwayne. What are you doing here?
dwayne		Ain't ya heard. We're gonna be roommates! Ain't that zinky? Nick looks to his father in horror as Dwayne goes chasing after the dog.
nick		Uh... Dad? What's going on?
george		Mrs. Crampton's our new housekeeper. I'm renting out the spare room to her seeing as her camper has been deemed unfit for human habitation.
nick		What about Dwayne?
george		He's bunking with you.
nick		Dad!
george		You working on strike two? Nick leans back and glares in silent protest as everyone takes their seats at the table.
dwayne		Say, Nick. You wanna sleep in bed with me? It'll be tons warmer.
nick		No thank you, Dwayne. A knock at the door. Lacey enters.
lacey		This came for you, Nick. Nick sits up in bed to receive the letter. As Lacey leaves, he tears through the wax seal and unfolds its contents.
dwayne		Is it a love letter, Nick?
nick		I don't know, it's in French. Say, why does your mother give you sleeping pills?
dwayne		`Cuz otherwise I'd stay up all night playin' Nintendo Wii. Say, Nick, can I walk Albert?
nick		I don't know. Dogs don't grow on trees.
dwayne		Pleeease, Nick?
nick		Okay. But it will cost you one sleeping pill per walk.
dwayne		Whatchu want them pills for, Nick?
nick		You never know when sedatives will come in handy.
nick		Lefty?
lefty		Oh. Hey, Nick!
nick		Lefty, what are you doing here?
lefty		I live here. The guy's only charging me fifty in cash a month.
nick		I mean, what are you doing in town?
lefty		I did what you told me, Nick. I threw my backpack off the pier and reported my own suicide. I even left a note.
nick		Wow, Lefty, I'm kinda impressed. Faking your suicide is pretty ballsy. Lefty joins Nick in his walk down the road.
lefty		So where you headed?
nick		Redwood High School.
lefty		Can I come?
nick		Why would you want to go to school if you didn't have to?
lefty		It's weird, Nick, but school seems like a pretty fun place to hang out once you get rid of classes and homework.
nick		I can see this stunt really has liberated your mind.
lefty		I'm telling you, Nick: killing myself was the best thing that ever happened to me.
vijay		May I sit at your table?
lefty		Sure. I'm Lefty and this is Nick.
vijay		I am Vijay Joshi. Vijay sits and shakes their hands.
vijay		I see you both have been rejected by the socially elite of our school. Ukiah is a cultural wasteland compared to India. Though some of the girls are very attractive.
nick		Do you have a girlfriend?
vijay		Not at the moment. But I am optimistic. How about you?
nick		Yes, but she transferred.
vijay		You don't mean Sheeni Saunders. I heard she was interested in some brilliant fellow in the Bay Area.
lefty		Hey, that's you, Nick.
vijay		I'm surprised. You are not at all what I imagined. Nick narrows his eyes.
vijay		So how is Sheeni?
nick		I don't know. She sent me this letter. But it's in French.
vijay		Shall I translate it for you?
nick		You speak French?
vijay		I speak French, English, Hindi, Marathi, and Urdu.
lefty		That must come in handy. Nick hands over the letter and Vijay starts reading it silently. He chuckles as he reads and Nick squints his eyes at him in annoyance. Vijay picks up on it, clears his throat and reads aloud.
vijay		Dear, Nick...
sheeni		Perhaps you should consider learning French and enrolling. That said...
nick		That's it? Nothing else about me? Vijay picks up the letter again.
vijay		Oh yes... Love to you and Albert.  Who's Albert?
nick		Albert is our dog. This is a disaster. What the hell does she mean Trent wants to mend the relationship?
vijay		I don't know, but this Taggarty girl sounds very uninhibited. I wonder if she's made it with a Hindu yet.
lefty		Heather sounds like a babe. You think if I grew a beard I'd pass for college age?
nick		I've got to get to Sheeni as soon as possible. If I don't Trent Preston is going to mindfuck her into thinking she doesn't like me.
lefty		And then he'll probably fuck her in other ways. Did you know you're supposed to put your pinkie in a girl's bumhole, Vijay?
nick		Will you shut up and help me out?
lefty		Sorry, Nick. What should we do?
nick		I suggest we steal my father's BMW and take a trip to Santa Cruz. Vijay, you'll have to be our translator.
vijay		But what will we tell our parents?
lefty		You can tell your father you are staying at Nick's house for the weekend. And visa versa.
nick		Good thinking.
vijay		But what if we are caught?
nick		To hell with it, Vijay. It's time to take action! THREE CUTS. The JINGLE as Nick removes his Dad's keys from the bureau. The trunk SLAMMING closed with the sleeping bags inside. The ROAR of the engine as Vijay's hand turns the key in the ignition.
lefty		What is this music, Nick?
nick		It's Dave Brubeck.  I thought a person as cultured as yourself would appreciate it.
vijay		You want culture? I will give you culture. Vijay puts in his own CD and Ravi Shankar's TARANA blasts from the speakers. Nick gives Vijay a grin of approval. MUSIC PLAYS OVER...
sheeni		Nickie? Nick, Vijay, and Lefty are noticeably shorter than the older boys around them.
nick		Hello, Sheeni.  Hi, I'm Nick.
taggarty		Oh. So you're Nick.
heather		We've heard so much about you.
nick		And this is Vijay. And this is Lefty. Lefty goes to USC.
lefty		And I'm not gay.
sheeni		Nick, I knew you'd come! Sheeni glances over at the disapproving MATRON. She leans in close.
sheeni		...but you must wait in the car until we can sneak you in. Nick nods in understanding.
heather		Lefty, should maybe sleep in my room. It's pretty crowded in here.
lefty		Your roommate won't mind?
heather		Oh, Darlene went home for the weekend. Lefty gulps and picks up his grip. He pauses in the hallway.
lefty		Well, see you guys in the morning. The door closes and Vijay and Nick exchange a knowing glance.
sheeni		Pardon me, everyone. Sheeni steps into the tiny closet to change. Vijay and Nick regard the...
nick		There's your competition.
vijay		A distinguished group I would be happy to join. The two boys turn around and watch in hot-blooded bliss as Taggarty searches for her misplaced nightie.
vijay		I am in a state of sexual frenzy. What is your plan?
nick		We drape a blanket over the lower bunk for Sheeni and me. You tackle Taggarty on the top bunk. Here's a condom. I slipped two to Lefty, leaving us with four.
vijay		What if they don't go for it?
nick		They'll go for it. You can cut the sexual tension in that room with a knife.
sheeni		Don't be silly, darling. Not with others in the room.  We must wait until everyone falls asleep. Nick tries to appear unconcerned. She gives him a kiss and climbs into her narrow bed. As Nick and Vijay prepare their sleeping bags on the floor, they watch Taggarty climb up to her bunk in the sky.
taggerty		Goodnight boys. Do you need the light on to take off your clothes?
nick		No.  We can find our zippers in the dark.
nick		Sheeni?
sheeni		Yes, Nick?
nick		Was that the matron?
sheeni		No. Beat.
nick		Then who was it?
sheeni		It was Trent. Beat.
nick		Did you say it was Trent?
sheeni		Yes. He came to discuss our friendship. I told him now was not the time.
nick		So where is Trent now?
sheeni		I assume he went back to the boys' dorm. Now really, Nickie, you are keeping everyone awake with your inquiries. Though silence follows, we take a moment to allow Nick's mind to race in the dark. He stands and looks at the mirror above the dresser. Franois can be made out sitting by the window in the moonlight, stroking the Thompson.
franois		Now is our chance.
nick		Chance for what?
franois		To confront our nemesis. We must go to the boys' dorm and kill Trent where he sleeps.
nick		I suppose we should at least get a look at him. To see what we're dealing with.
franois		Very well. (stubbing out his
nick		Trent?
ed		No. Who the hell are you?
nick		I am Nick Twisp.
ed		Oh, so you're Nick.
nick		Is Trent here?
ed		You just missed him, Nick. He just grabbed a couple condoms and left.
nick		Did he say where he was going?
ed		I think he said he was going to Heather's room.
nick		But that's where Lefty is. Who are you?
ed		Ed. Ed Solomon. Trent's roommate.
nick		Oh, so you're Ed.
ed		What's that supposed to mean?
nick		Nothing. It's just that Sheeni mentioned Trent has a thing for a guy named Ed, and that he touches the guy when he falls asleep. But obviously if that were you, you'd know about it. Must be a different Ed Solomon. Take care now. Nick takes off running and Ed stares after him.
heather		What's up, Nick?
nick		Is Trent in there?
heather		Not anymore.
nick		What happened to Lefty?
heather		Trent was here, but he left. He only dropped by to lend us a couple more condoms.
nick		But I gave Lefty two already.
heather		Yes, and that was very generous of you, but the night is young.
nick		So what is Trent, the fucking condom faerie!?!
lefty		You can have one of ours, Nick. If you need one. The fact that Nick doesn't yet raises his temperament even further.
nick		So where did he say he was going?
heather		He didn't say, but I'm pretty sure I just saw him go into our bathroom down the hall.
nick		Thanks. Oh, and I'd be careful with those condoms. Trent's roommate Ed said that Trent pokes holes in them so that he can get Sheeni pregnant and be with her forever. And with that piece of disturbing info, he leaves them.
bernice		Who are you?
nick		I'm Sheeni's friend, Nick. Sorry to disturb you.
bernice		That's OK. It was something I ate. So wait, are you Sheeni's boyfriend?
nick		Uh, yeah.
bernice		My name's Bernice. Bernice Lynch. Not that you asked.
nick		Nice to meet you Bernice. Actually, I think Trent Preston mentioned you. He said you were frumpy, but now that I've met you, I can see Trent is a lying bastard.
bernice		Thanks. And Trent can go to hell for all I care. Sheeni too.
nick		You don't like Sheeni?
bernice		Personally, I hate her guts. Well, pardon me, Nick. I feel like throwing up some more now.
nick		You didn't happen to see Trent Preston did you? She waves him away as she bends over the sink to hurl again. Then lifts her face and smiles through the dripping bile.
bernice		I did actually. I think he was on his way to Sheeni's room. Nick's eyes widen in alarm.
nick		Sheeni?
sheeni		Yes, darling.
nick		Was Trent here?
sheeni		Yes, Nick. Nick hangs his head.
sheeni		But I sent him away again. Nick stares into her eyes to discern her honesty, but he finds nothing but adoration.
sheeni		Because I want you, darling. Not even Trent can match the industriousness and tenacity with which you have pursued me.
matron		Q'est que c'est passer ici?!? Nick bolts upright, smacking his head against the top bunk. He lands on the floor, where he gets a view of... Trent standing behind the matron. The blinding light makes his features difficult to make out but his white teeth are definitely smiling diabolically.
lefty		I did it three times! Two long ones and a quickie.
nick		Great. Just great. How about you, Vijay?
vijay		It was difficult to tell with that condom, Nick. Why did you buy such thick ones?
nick		That brand was top-rated by Consumers.
vijay		Well, she's safe. No organism could penetrate those walls.
nick		You think the girls are in trouble?
vijay		They will likely notify their parents. Perhaps even expel them.
nick		That's it! Expel them. Then Sheeni will have to come back to Ukiah. The car sputters. Nick's eyes go to the gas gauge.
vijay		What will we do?
nick		Well, we can't stay in the car. Sooner or later Highway Patrol is going to come by and ask for our non-existent driver's license.
lefty		But we have no money!
vijay		I have no shoes! I'll catch pneumonia and die a indeterminate proto-quasi-virgin!
nick		 Mom? It's Nick. I'm sorry to wake you, but I'm hoping you'll help your only son. Especially seeing as it would really piss off Dad. A long beat.
wally		Pardon me. But is one of you Nick Twisp? The two other boys exchange confused glances, not entirely if this is how people go missing.
nick		Yeah. I'm Nick.
wally		I'm Wally. I'm a friend of your mom's. Nick nods, not yet sure whether or not this gentle giant is actually blushing with shyness or red with agitation at being sent on a midnight mission.
wally		So, uhm, uh... Your mom says you need a ride. Did I mention I'm a friend? Nick breaks into a smile. Finally the Gods have cut him a break.
estelle		Wally was a friend of Jerry's. He came to help me in my time of mourning.
nick		What happened to Lance? Estelle's face registers "none of your business," but a kind look from Wally and she softens.
estelle		Lance is busy training to be a detective. He isn't around as much as he used to be. Nick nods and goes back to eating.
estelle		Mr. Rumpkin is very smart. Ask him a question, Nick.
nick		Okay. Mr. Rumpkin, what famous actress was married to Frank Sinatra, Artie Shaw, and Mickey Rooney?
lefty		Whoever she is, she sure gets around.
wally		Ava Gardner. Estelle smiles with pride. Nick and the other boys regard the gentle giant with admiration. He bashfully averts his eyes.
estelle		That's nothing. You should see what he did with the living room.
estelle		Go ahead, Wally. Show them. Wally blushes before he flips a switch and the tail lights come on, giving the living room a warm, flattering glow.
wally		Well, uhm... It was nice meeting you, Nick.
nick		You too, Mr. Rumpkin. Wally blushes even more. He closes the door and starts to turn the truck around. Nick watches him go. Wally waves goodbye. Nick turns and the three boys make their way down the dusty road.
nick		Where's Dad?
lacey		In the bedroom. I wouldn't bother him, Nick. He's in a foul mood. He's on with the police. Apparently someone broke in and stole his Beamer. Lacey gives Nick an amused smile.
dwayne		Nick, you got a girlfriend?
nick		Yes, I do.
dwayne		If you asked your girlfriend as a favor, would she do it with me?
nick		Guys don't share their girlfriends.
dwayne		I get ya. You're worried `cause your girlfriend might get knocked up. What if I pull out, Nick? Nick seethes inwardly. There comes a ruckus from the back bedroom and Lacey emerges.
lacey		It's not my fault, you tight-assed, critical, nonfeeling, sexist drunk.
lacey		Does it bother you that you're a selfish, uptight, boring lover?
nick		You forgot lousy driver! George appears in the doorway.
george		That's strike two, jerkoff! Nick hangs his head. George moves about the kitchen chugging from a jug of zin. Lacey picks up the ringing phone.
lacey		Hello?
lacey		They found your car in Davenport, George. Go pick it up.
george		Look who's wearing the pants this morning. Lacey takes a seat next to Nick and sighs.
lacey		Nick, I feel for you. It must be tough being a teenager in this house.
nick		My mother wasn't any better.
lacey		Your mom has had a difficult time. She has had a great deal to put up with. I'm starting to appreciate that now.
george		Are you by any chance referring to me?
lacey		If the shoe fits, suck on it. George swills some zin and mumbles ominously.
george		We'll see who's sucking on what soon.
vijay		I spoke with Taggarty this morning. She requested a wallet sized photo. Nick looks up glumly from his lunch. Lefty has his feet up on the table, his facial growth is almost respectable.
lefty		Congratulations, Vijay. That makes it official. Welcome to the club. Nick narrows his eyes at the two non-virgins.
nick		What grade did you receive?
vijay		A C+. Which I feel is perfectly satisfactory given the conditions.
lefty		I guess this means they're not being expelled.
vijay		No, apparently they convinced the matron it was all quite innocent.
nick		Are you kidding? She had her flashlight trained on your Hindi boner! A beat. Lefty and Vijay seem taken aback by the outburst.
vijay		No need to be jealous, Nick. Nick stands and collects his lunch tray.
nick		Dear Bernice, it was nice meeting you this weekend in the bathroom.
nick		Where's Dad?
paul		We saved you some mushrooms, Nick. Nick watches the sensual foot message. He picks up the bag full of mushrooms and considers them.
the hall		and into...
lacey		Nick? Get the phone? Nick picks up the phone and Paul takes his place at Lacey's feet.
nick		 Hello?
george		Nick? Is that you?
nick		I am Nick Twisp. I am alive. I am a breathing organism.
george		Quit fooling around, Nick. This is your dad. Is everything okay there?
nick		Don't be afraid, Dad. Everything will be okay. You deserve to be loved.
george		What the hell is that supposed to mean? Is Lacey there?
nick		Lacey is here. Paul is caressing her toes.
george		Paul! Who the hell is Paul?
nick		Paul is our friend. He makes beautiful music for the acrobats. They're naked.
george		Who's naked? Is Lacey naked?
nick		Don't be afraid, Dad. Goodbye. He hangs up the phone and pulls out the cord. He joins Paul in working Lacey's feet.
nick		Dad is afraid.
lacey		He is on the wrong path. I have felt that for some time.
living room		where Paul stands between George and Lacey.
paul		Okay, George, just calm down. George lunges and Paul socks him in the eye, dropping him to the floor.
george		You are in serious trouble. You've assaulted me and I know for a fact that you two were having naked orgies with my son. That child is only twelve years old. George gets to his feet.
nick		I'm sixteen, Dad.
george		Shut your pie hole! (turning to Lacey and
lacey		Don't be an idiot, George. No one was naked.
george		When you get out of prison, you will both have to register as sex offenders. You will never be able to get a decent job again.
paul		I've never had a decent job. I don't think I'd want one.
lacey		Let's go, Paul. George, I'll pick up the rest of my things tomorrow.
george		Not until you pay me the rest of the money you owe.
lacey		I paid you all your money!
george		Not the extra charges. She gets up in his face.
lacey		Fuck-your-stinking-extra-charges. As Lacey and Paul depart, Nick turns and dreamily wanders back toward his room.
dwayne		What's all the ruckus about?
nick		Dwayne! Please cover yourself.
dwayne		You wanna play Nintendo all night?
nick		Of course not. I'm tired. Let's go to sleep. Nick unplugs the Nintendo and climbs into bed. Dwayne just sits there on the floor, naked as a clam.
nick		Wake up! I know what you were doing last night, you disgusting beast!
dwayne		Don't be mad, Nick. I like you. Dwayne throws off his sheets. Nick shudders at the sight. ...which is when Mrs. Crampton barges in..
dwayne		Nick made me take them off, Mom. He took off his too.
nick		We weren't doing anything, Mrs. Crampton. It was just hot last night.
nick		Taggarty? It's Nick.
taggarty		Hey, Nick. I suppose you want to talk to Sheeni.
nick		If you please. Taggarty crosses to the bunks, where Sheeni is curled up among the sheets as if in some Renaissance portrait.
taggarty		It's your would-be-lover. Sheeni sleepily takes the phone.
sheeni		Nick?
nick		Hello, My Beloved. How are you?
sheeni		Not so well. I have been afflicted with some kind of chronic fatigue.
nick		Perhaps you are home sick. You do sound rather blue.
sheeni		I'm not home sick, Nick. In fact, I'm not very happy with you.
nick		Me? What did I do?
sheeni		You know damn well, Nick. You've been spreading rumors about Trent. And he doesn't deserve it.
nick		Doesn't deserve it!?! I'd have to claim he has genital warts to sink to his level.
sheeni		Well, whatever you said to Ed Solomon, it was enough to get him to give Trent a black eye.
nick		Sheeni, I just don't get it. This guy has cock-blocked at every turn and you're taking his side?!?
sheeni		Cock-blocked?
nick		Lacey's not a floozie.
sheeni		Lacey? You know her?
nick		Of course. She's my father's ex- girlfriend. I think that might make you my stepmother-in-law.
sheeni		Nick. Don't be gross.
nick		Sorry. At any rate, I'll let you go. We'll have plenty of time to settle this tomorrow.
sheeni		Tomorrow?
nick		Yes, Sheeni, Thanksgiving. I'll be coming for dinner, of course.
sheeni		Don't even think it, Nick. You know my parents don't approve of you.
nick		I'm confident they will learn to love me. After all, I'm practically family.
sheeni		Nick, you must dismiss this Thanksgiving notion from your mind. I remain firm on this issue. Goodbye. CLICK. Nick regards the phone defensively. He puts it down and takes a seat at the table. He glares at Dwayne as they eat breakfast. There comes a knock at the front door.
nick		Don't move, blubber boy, I'll get it.
police officer		Is George Twisp in?
nick		Uh, I'm pretty sure he's sleeping off a hangover, Officer. Is he under arrest?
police officer		Under arrest? No, I'm the officer working the case of his stolen car.
nick		Ah.
police officer		You can tell your pop that the CD he found in his car is Ravi Shankar.
nick		Excuse me?
police officer		Indian music. So we're a checkin' the INS files, see if we can get some prints that match. You wouldn't know anyone who might have stolen the car who listens to this crap, would ya, son?
nick		No, and I'm not sure I like the implication. Ravi Shankar is beloved by many Caucasian...
dwayne		I'm pretty sure he's Injun. The officer makes a note.
police officer		 Vijay Joshi. We'll look into it. Thank you, boys. Nick gives a weak smile and closes the door.
living room		where the phone RINGS. He flips off the stereo with the remote and snatches up the phone.
nick		Twisp residence.
nick		Oh. Hey, Mom. What's up?
nick		Okay. I'm ready. What is it?
nick		What's the bad news?
nick		Lefty, have you seen Vijay, today?
lefty		Nick, haven't you heard? Vijay's been arrested.
nick		Arrested?!?
lefty		For grand theft auto. They found his prints in your father's car.
nick		That's terrible. Did he go quietly?
lefty		No. He said you were his accomplice and now the Ukiah police are looking for you! We linger a beat on Nick's blank expression. Then -
paul		Hello, Nick. Right on time. Come in.
nick		Happy Thanksgiving, Lacey. She spots the sad flowers in his hand.
lacey		What interesting flowers, Nick. Who are they for?
nick		Uh, Mrs. Saunders. Lacey leads him by the hand into the chintz-bedecked parlor. Sheeni's larger-than-life father and 5,000 year old mother sit cross-legged on the floor, running their hands over the hooked rug.
lacey		Mr. and Mrs. Saunders, you remember Nick Twisp, don't you? Mrs. Saunders coos and takes the flowers. Her husband squints up at him.
paul		No he's not, Dad. He just appears tall because you are on the floor.
lacey		Paul served an appetizer earlier.
paul		Yes, it's a recipe I picked up in the Southwest. Stuffed mushrooms. Nick smiles with amusement.
taggerty		How is the star-crossed persistent lover? She greets him with a casually intimate kiss.
nick		Okay, I guess. Where's Sheeni?
taggerty		Upstairs, Nick. She saw you coming and hid in her room.
nick		Dinner is almost ready, My Love.
sheeni		I do not intend to be party to my brother's absurdities. He has allowed you in and drugged my parents.
nick		I think they are deriving some good from the experience. Sheeni finally looks up from her book.
sheeni		What are you doing here, Nick? I expressly asked you not to come.
nick		To hell with that. What do I have to do to prove my love to you? My friends have gotten laid and I'm pretty sure neither one of them was beaten with a tree trunk, raped by a walrus, or had to contend with the likes of Trent Preston!
sheeni		You were raped by a walrus?
nick		Sheeni, I have shown restraint, I have committed crimes, I have traveled to the lengths of the state and still you won't give me this one little thing.
sheeni		Sex, Nick. Why don't you just say it? That's what you want. You want me to have sex with you.
sheeni		How is my dog?
nick		Excellent. He should be coming out of the oven right about now. She tosses the book at him, but he dodges it successfully.
sheeni		I hate you, Nickie! She stands up and tries to slap him. He grabs her wrists and pulls her to him.
nick		I hate you too. They share a long, intense kiss. They break away and she smiles in spite of herself.
lacey		Dear Lord... Mr. Saunders emits a long, low, fog horn of a fart that ends badly. The others exchange glances but he and his wife still have their heads solemnly bowed.
lacey		Dear Lord, thank you for this bounty. Help us to be tolerant of others - especially the boyfriends and girlfriends of our immediate relations. Amen.
everyone		Amen.
paul		Well, mother, he is sitting in his own bowel movement.
taggarty		The food is delicious, Paul.
paul		Thank you.
sheeni		Not long enough, Paul.
nick		I hope it's the first of many such occasions for me. Sheeni narrows her eyes at him. A long beat as they all dine in silence. Then- Mrs. Saunders croaks out in song.
everyone		Round yon virgin Mother and Child/ Holy infant so tender and mild/ Sleep in heavenly peace... Sle-eep in heavenly pee-eace.
taggarty		Oh, Trent, you made it. Nick glances up with a start as TRENT PRESTON makes his entrance. He's not quite the deity Nick's expected, but rather a fairly plain, blond with slightly androgenous features and a certain flamboyance. His black eye, courtesy of Ed Solomon, still remains.
trent		Hello, Taggarty. Hello, Everyone. Mr. Saunders grunts his acknowledgement as he takes the pitcher and pours water into his own lap.
sheeni		Trent, darling, this is Nick. Trent swivels slowly around and they lock eyes.
trent		Nick, at last we meet.
nick		Hello, Trent.
taggarty		Have a seat, Trent.
trent		I'm sorry, Taggarty, I can't stay. I have bad news.
sheeni		What is it?
trent		Bernice Lynch has tried to commit suicide. Sheeni and Taggarty gasp. Nick swallows hard.
trent		She swallowed a number of sleeping pills, and is now in a coma.
sheeni		The poor girl.
trent		There's more. Before I left school, I searched her room.
nick		Did you obtain proper authorization from the officials?
trent		No, Nick, I acted on my own initiative. In Bernice's closet, I found this letter. He dramatically extracts the letter from his pocket.
trent		In the letter, the writer instructed Bernice to begin sedating Sheeni with drugs he himself supplied.
taggarty		Nick, you didn't!
nick		Well, you see...
sheeni		Nick! You could have killed me!
trent		No one yet, Mr. Saunders. Mrs. Saunders points a liver spotted finger in his direction.
trent		I can't arrest him. But I have called the Santa Cruz Police. They are on their way here now. Nick places his napkin next to his plate and stands.
nick		Well, I shall be going now. Please continue without me.
trent		Nick, I suggest you remain here and face the consequences like a man. Nick stops in front of Trent.
nick		Thank you for that unsolicited counsel, Trent. And please, do drop dead. The other guests murmur their shock. Nick stops in the doorway.
nick		Goodbye, Sheeni. I did it all for you.
sheeni		You are completely contemptible, Nick Twisp. I never wish to see you again. With the dreadful proclamation ringing in his ears, Nick leaves.
nick		Uh, Hi, Joanie. How's it going?
joanie		Nick?
joanie		Nick, six months ago you were just another brownnosing honor student. What happened?
nick		I'm not really sure. I fell in love with Sheeni. All I want is to be with her. The rest is all a big misunderstanding.
joanie		Nick, you've stolen, vandalized, trespassed, and burned down Berkeley. All for one girl. If there's a misunderstanding, it's with your insight into females.
nick		But... But where did I go wrong?
joanie		Nick, boys your age are always looking for the path of least resistance to becoming a man. A boy's whole self-esteem rests on how fast he can get a girl into bed.
nick		So far, I agree.
joanie		Sooner or later what those boys realize, is that the girls you're chasing base their self-esteem on how many hoops they can get the boy to jump through before going to bed with him. Nick furrows his brow. Clearly that had not occurred to him.
joanie		So I guess what you should ask yourself is: How far are you willing to go?
nick		All the way, Joanie. I'm willing to go all the way. Joanie nods in amusement.
joanie		You can stay here a couple days, but eventually they'll come looking for you. I don't have much money to give you, but here. Nick takes the wad of cash, clearly moved.
nick		Thanks, Joanie. I... Uh... I love you.
joanie		I love you too, you little brat.
nick		One ticket to Ukiah, please.
lance		Yeah.
lance		Nick, ya little prick, where are ya?
nick		You're on a need to know basis, gorilla boy. Lance seethes inwardly.
lance		No matter, they'll get you eventually.
nick		Let me make it easy. I'll be at Redwood High School tomorrow morning. Round up your donut dipping friends. I'm turning myself in. Nick slams down the phone before Lance can respond.
nick		Lefty? Lefty lifts his eyes and sees his friend.
lefty		Nick? What are you doing here? Everyone and their mother's mother is looking for you.
nick		They have me soon enough. Where are you going?
lefty		Home. I'm done being dead, Nick. Heather and I are going back to Oakland for Christmas. You should have heard how glad my parents were that I didn't kill myself. They were even happier when they found out I'm not gay.
nick		That's great, Lefty.
lefty		Yeah, being in love is pretty great. So what's your plan, Nick?
paul		Welcome back, Nick. We had a feeling you were coming.
tina		This is Tina Manion reporting live at Redwood High in Ukiah where local law enforcement as well as the FBI awaits the promised arrival of Nick Twisp. There comes a murmur from the crowd and Tina directs the student camera-man to the road on the ridge where... George's BMW pulls to a stop overlooking the school.
george		Hey. That's my car! The crowd hushes as the door opens and Nick emerges.
nick's pov		of the parking lot below, which looks like the kind of turn out one would expect of a Star Wars prequel.
underwater		The BMW descends toward us in a storm of air bubbles. As it gently touches down at the bottom of the lake, a somber TRUMPET SOLO comes in pre-lap and we are...
heather		A little to the right... a little... RIGHT THERE! RIGHT THERE!
sheeni		Excuse me. Are you a friend of Nick's? Carlotta looks up, startled. She composes herself and shakes Sheeni's hand.
sheeni		You shouldn't be, Carlotta. I am no doubt culpable for Nick's actions.
sheeni		Yes, Carlotta. Nick had wonderful a way of making me feel worthy of the pursuit.
sheeni		Would you like to stay the night, Carlotta? We can reminisce of our departed.
sheeni		It's just... I don't think I could bear to be alone tonight. Carlotta does her best not to look conflicted, but it shows.
sheeni		Do you like it? I bought it in Santa Rosa last fall. I had hoped to wear it for Nick.
sheeni		I like lying here with you, Carlotta.
sheeni		I can't think of anyone I'd rather lie here with. Carlotta furrows her brow.
sheeni		Except maybe Nick. If Nick were here, what do you suppose he would do to me?
sheeni		Then why don't you?
sheeni		Take off that silly wig and make love to me! Sheeni tugs off the wig and tosses it across the room.
nick		Sheeni! You knew!
sheeni		Of course, Nick. Did you really expect to fool your soul mate with such a disguise? Nick swoons, grasping her gauze-glazed nakedness.
sheeni		Take me darling! And as they engage in a feverish kiss, ROUSING HYMNS surge. The church chorus' joyful song rings Hallelujah. The two lovers are entwined before an abstract RED
sheeni		My parents are at services. They won't be back for hours.
nick		Shall we have breakfast, my love?
sheeni		What a lovely notion, darling. You go ahead downstairs and get things started. Sheeni hauls herself out of bed and grabs the phone off the cradle.
nick		What are you doing?
sheeni		Calling Taggarty to report that you are not completely incompetent in the bedroom.
nick		Do I get to stay and hear my grade?
sheeni		Not a chance, Mr. Twisp. Such things are reserved for girl talk only. And for good reason. She smiles at him and he smiles back.
nick		Very well, Sheeni. Don't be long.
nick		Well, good morning, Franois. What do you think?
franois		What do I sink? I sink now's are chance to run for ze hills. Nick lowers his arms and furrows his brow.
nick		What do you mean?
franois		Nick, we are young, yes? Is the world not our oyster? Beaucoup des filles. Do you not want to know what it is like to make love to another girl?
nick		I do, but... We've come so far. What about Sheeni?
franois		Forget Sheeni. Yes, she will always be ze first conquest, but all zis time you saught zis was ze end, ze one and only, when in fact it is only ze beginning. Nick lifts his eyebrows with dawning epiphany. In the reflection we can see behind Nick as Albert leaps onto the love seat and barks at the sound of approaching sirens. Nick runs to the window just in time to see half a dozen law enforcement vehicles pull up.
nick		Sheeni, the police are here! He ducks down from the window as a chopper buzzes overhead.
nick		Quick! Maybe I can sneak out the back!
nick		I don't understand. How do they even know I'm alive?
nick		Well, thanks a pantsful!
sheeni		But, Nickie, it had to be done.
nick		But... but why?
sheeni		I can't very well marry a wanted man, honey. Look at it this way, in a few months you'll be a free man and we can be together in Paris. Nick looks to Franois in disbelief. But the Frenchman just rolls his eyes.
franois		You might as well break it to her now, Nick. A long pensive beat as Nick contemplates telling her he may never see her again. But behind Sheeni's air of control, Nick finally sees the vulnerability he's had in his hands all along.
nick		As always, you are right, my love. Sheeni beams. Franois smacks his forehead with hand.
franois		Merd. The Frenchman in the mirror sticks the barrel of the Thompson in his mouth and blows himself OUT OF FRAME just as... ...the front door bursts open and the FBI AGENTS surround Nick.
sheeni		Write often, Nickie.
nick		I will, darling.
sheeni		And don't worry about Albert. He'll be waiting for you too.
****Dialogues from script :Zero_Dark_Thirty.txt****

daniel		I own you, Ammar. You belong to me. Look at me. This is DANIEL STANTON, the CIA's man in Islamabad - a big American, late 30's, with a long, anarchical beard snaking down to his tattooed neck. He looks like a paramilitary hipster, a punk rocker with a Glock.  DANIEL  Look at me, Ammar. Notably, one of the GUARDS wearing a ski mask does not take part in the beating.
daniel		 Are we gonna board up these windows or what?
maya		I'm fine. She's not.
daniel		Just so you know, it's going to take awhile. He has to learn how helpless he is. Let's get a coffee.
maya		No, we should go back in. Something about the strange intensity of her expression makes Daniel reconsider and he turns back to the interrogation room.
daniel		You know, there's no shame if you wanna watch from the monitor. She shakes her head.
maya		You're not wearing one. Is he ever getting out?
daniel		Never.
daniel		Right now, this is about you coming to terms with your situation. It's you and me, bro. I want you to understand that I know you, that I've been studying you for a very long time. I could have had you killed Karachi. But I let you live so you and I could talk.
daniel		Life isn't always fair, my friend. Did you really think that when we got you, I'd be a nice fucking guy?
ammar		You're a mid-level guy. You're a garbage man in a corporation. Why should I respect you?
daniel		And you're a money man. A paperboy! Daniel paces around Ammar, anger rising.
ammar		I told you before, I won't talk to you.
daniel		Have it your way.
ammar		 I don't know, you asshole. Maya shakes her head "no."
maya		That's not credible.
daniel		You're a terrorist, that's why I'm doing it to you.
ammar		Fuck you. Daniel pours water over the towel so it hits Ammar's nose.
daniel		I want emails of the rest of the Saudi group. Give me emails of the rest of the Saudi group! Give me one email, and I will stop this! Ammar doesn't speak. He can't.
bradley		How did it go the other night?
daniel		It was good. The local cops need tactical help. But he's Tier fucking One, baby. There's your money maker.
bradley		This is the guy that's KSM's nephew? What's his issue?
daniel		He's being a dick.
bradley		If he's trying to outsmart you, tell him about your PhD.
daniel		I am going to have to turn up the heat. He needs to give us the Saudi group now. They reach the lobby, where they can see Maya sitting in the holding area. They walk towards her as Bradley considers what Daniel is asking for.
bradley		He's gotta have that - given the family ties. Permission granted, Daniel reassures his boss.
daniel		Tight with his uncle, prints all over the 9/11 money. Daniel knocks on the glass for Maya to come in.
bradley		And we continue our Christian mission here. Nice to meet you.
maya		You too, Sir.
bradley		How was your flight? They walk down the lobby towards the Secure Wing.
maya		Fine.
daniel		She's been having a great time ever since she got in, isn't that right?
bradley		How do you like Pakistan so far?
maya		It's kinda fucked up.
bradley		You volunteered for this didn't you?
maya		No. Bradley smiles. He knew she didn't volunteer. They reach a secure area and Bradley checks Maya through an electronic door.
daniel		Don't you think she's a little young for the hard stuff?
bradley		Washington says she's a killer.
daniel		The children's crusade.
bradley		They want the next generation on the field. Listen, I have a meeting with ISI in twenty minutes.
daniel		They're slow rolling us in Lahore - you might want to bitch about that.
bradley		Did you see the cable from London?
daniel		Dude, I've been in a dark room with another man for the last two days.
jack		Some dude tells the Malaysian station that his nephew works with a guy who knows a guy--
jessica		Here we go.
jack		Hold on - He goes to a big feast in Bangkok about a year ago. The guest of honor? Usama bin Laden. Laughter in the room.
jessica		Right, but you forgot - you forgot Mullah Omar. J.J. and JEREMY, two case officers, continue the banter:
jeremy		That's me, man. No job too small.
jack		That's why I have a gift for you, my friend. Jack hands Jeremy a piece of paper. Daniel and Maya enter, a little late.
daniel		Everyone, this is Maya. Maya, everyone.
jessica		Ammar is withholding? Daniel nods.
daniel		- Best man for it.
jeremy		Like we're just keeping it from them. Jessica sits back down and gets down to business.
jessica		The Jordanians are being really helpful with Ammar's transit papers. Jessica passes Daniel a file.
daniel		Any imminent threats in here?
jessica		They want the Consulate, the Marriott, it's low security. And they've got Majid Kahn talking about gas stations in the US.
daniel		And that's a conversation? Jessica shrugs. At this point, she believes that it is merely a conversation - not a fully realized plot.
jessica		Honestly? There are six hundred questions in there. I'd concentrate on Heathrow. The Saudis. Does it matter what Faraj thinks about Heathrow? How much latitude does he get to pick targets?
daniel		I think he'll give up the Saudis. But Heathrow is gonna be tough. Anyway. Anything from last night?
daniel		Great.
jeremy		And Lahore reporting ISI down there was painfully slow last night. Again. I'm beginning to think it's not incompetence.
daniel		I agree, I spoke to the Chief about that. Anything on bin Laden?
jessica		 A farmer on the Afghan border near Tora Bora reports: a diamond shaped pattern in the hills, tall male in the center of the diamond, flanked by four guards. It's consistent with UBL's movements.
jeremy		That's supposed to be his royal guard?
maya		That's pre-9/11 behavior. Jessica doesn't appreciate the challenge.
maya		We invaded Afghanistan. That's a reason. And so the rivalry begins.
daniel		No, don't need him, the diamond sighting is bullshit. See if the Paks will send someone to talk to the farmer. Anything else? We need to be putting runs on the board against Faraj. Speak to the case officers who didn't see fit to make it today. And thank them.
daniel		Let's take it easy today, huh? Daniel hands Ammar a bottle of orange juice and a bag of falafel.
ammar		Yes.
daniel		I'm glad you said that. I have an email from you to him. I've had all your coms for years, bro. Who else is in your Saudi group?
ammar		I just handed out some cash for them. I didn't know who the guys were.
daniel		When you lie to me, I hurt you.
ammar		Please.
daniel		I believe you. I do, I believe you. Beat.
ammar		Please.
daniel		Just give me a name.
daniel		You see how this works? You don't mind if my female colleague sees your junk, do you? Daniel pulls down Ammar's pants. Maya flinches at the bare nakedness.
ammar		Your friend is an animal. Please, help me. Please. A long beat.
maya		You can help yourself by being truthful. The door handle turns. It occurs to Maya that perhaps Daniel was testing her resilience, too, as Daniel re-enters with a DOG COLLAR in his hand.
daniel		This is a dog collar. Daniel unhooks Ammar, snaps the collar and leash around his neck, as Ammar cries out against the humiliation. Maya flinches. Daniel is relentless:
daniel		Sunday? Sunday where? This Sunday or next Sunday? Ammar mumbles, almost inaudibly.
ammar		Monday.
daniel		Is it Sunday or Monday? Ammar doesn't answer. The masked men approach.
ammar		Saturday. Beat. The masked men open the box.
daniel		Ammar, which day?
daniel		Yeah, now.
jessica		You warned them - they didn't take you seriously - this is what happens. It's not on you.
daniel		Who said that? Zied? Fuck him. This is on me. Ammar is on me!! And it's on her!!  We can't let this be a win-win for
jessica		No, no, no. You had - what - days - brief custody - and an unresponsive ally. The way you do this is you look ahead. London. Heathrow. Mass casualties. That plan is still active.
maya		Ammar doesn't have a clue about what happened.
jessica		He knows.
maya		How?
jessica		You have to be really careful with people in KSM's circle - they're devious.
maya		He's not going to talk about attacks on the homeland. He's going to withhold operational details on the KSM network and probably on bin Laden.  But he's been in complete isolation, he doesn't know we failed. We can tell him anything.
daniel		Bluff him?
maya		He hasn't slept, Dan. He's clueless.
maya		After we kept you awake for 96 hours, you gave us names of some of your brothers and saved the lives of a lot of innocent people.
daniel		Which is the smart thing to do, you're starting to think for yourself. Ammar is lost. But the food is tempting.
ammar		How did you know that?
daniel		I told you man, I know you. Alright, you got me - flight manifests. It must've been pretty fucked up for you guys after 9/11. What did you do after the invasion and before you went back to Pesh?
ammar		After 9/11 I had to choose: fight, to protect our turf - or run.
ammar		I wanted to kill Americans. We tried to get into Tora Bora but the bombing was too high. We couldn't cross.
maya		Sorry, who is the "we" in that sentence?
ammar		Me and some guys who were hanging around at that time.
ammar		Hamza Rabia, Khabab al-Masri, and Abu Ahmed. Maya makes notes on her pad.
maya		Who's Abu Ahmed? I've heard of the other guys.
ammar		He was a computer guy with us at the time. After Tora Bora, I went back to Pesh - as you know - and he went North, I think, to Kunar.
maya		What's his family name?
ammar		Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti.
maya		Abu Ahmed means "father of Ahmed", it's a kunya.
daniel		She got you there, dude.
ammar		I swear to you both: I don't know his family name. I would have never asked him something like that. It's not how my uncle worked. My uncle told me he worked for bin Laden. I did see him, once, about a year ago, in Karachi. He read us all a letter from the Sheikh.
maya		A letter?
daniel		What did it say? Daniel offers Ammar a smoke.
ammar		It said "Continue the jihad. The work will go on for a hundred years."
soldier interrogator		You and I are gonna talk about some of the guys in the training camps, yeah? The prisoner sits in a chair. He's hooded, but relaxed.
prisoner		Ok.
soldier interrogator		Some of these brothers have done some bad things, and what I want to do is I want to separate them from the people like you.
prisoner		Definitely, yeah.
soldier interrogator		There was a guy called Abu Ahmed from Kuwait.
prisoner		Yes, I remember him. A nice guy.
soldier interrogator		How close was he? What was his relationship to the leadership?
prisoner		I don't know.
soldier interrogator		Did he eat with you guys - did he eat with the good guys - or did he eat with the leadership?
prisoner		I don't know, sir. I have no idea about things like that.
soldier interrogator		Yes you do, you don't need an idea
turkish interrogator		When you met with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, was this one of the facilitators? The Interrogator flashes a picture. The prisoner moans.
prisoner		Yes.
interrogator		KSM, your boss.
prisoner		Mukhtar?
interrogator		Mukhtar,'potato', you say 'potahto'. I say 'fucking KSM', but yeah, 'Mukhtar.' After Mukhtar was captured, what did Abu Ahmed do?
prisoner		Abu Ahmed, I believe he went to work for The Sheikh.
interrogator		He was carrying a letter from bin Laden?
interrogator		Is that him?
interrogator		Say again?
prisoner		Abu Ahmed. Abu Ahmed. Abu Ahmed. Freeze frame.
interrogator		Abu Ahmed - is he the courier for bin Laden?
prisoner		Who knows who works directly for bin Laden? Let's say he's part of the mix.
interrogator		Were there other people who carried messages from bin Laden?
prisoner		Sure.
interrogator		How many other people?
interrogator		Let's talk about them-- The image freezes. Maya stares at the screen.
jessica		How's the needle in the haystack?
maya		Fine.
jessica		Facilitators come and go, but one thing you can count on in life is that everyone wants money. The rivalry is in full bloom. Sometimes it's friendly. Sometimes it's not so friendly.
maya		Money for walk-ins worked great in the cold war, I'll give you that.
jessica		Thank you.
maya		Just not sure those tactics are applicable to the Middle East.
maya		Who did he work for? Hakim translates. Then the prisoner speaks.
maya		What did he do for Faraj?
maya		We need to ask him something to see if he's telling the truth. We don't know if he really knew Faraj. Hakim speaks to the prisoner.
hakim		He just told me the names of all of Faraj's children. I think he's telling the truth.
maya		Twenty detainees recognize that photo of Abu Ahmed. They say he's part of the inner circle of guys who were
bradley		Well, that's good. You still-
maya		Yeah, we don't know if Abu is on the outside of the network - part of a series of cutouts and dead drops - or if he has a direct connection to bin Laden. Does bin Laden invite him into the living room and hand him a letter directly? Or is Abu just the last guy in a long line of couriers, so that's why everybody knows him?
bradley		That's not all you don't know. You don't have his true name, and you don't have a clue of where he is.
maya		We know that he's important. The fact that everybody's heard of Abu Ahmed but nobody will tell me where he is suggests that.
bradley		Maybe. Detainees could withhold his location for any number of reasons. Perhaps they don't know; perhaps this Abu is just a cover story and he's really a fucking unicorn. The withholding doesn't reveal what you want it to - does it?
maya		No.
bradley		And if you did find him, you don't know that he'd be with bin Laden.
daniel		We don't know what we don't know.
daniel		It's a tautology.
bradley		 Listen, not one single detainee has said that he's located with the big guy, just that he delivers messages. Am I wrong?
maya		No.
bradley		No. It's still good work.
night		Joseph Bradley sits at his desk. The weight of the world on his shoulders. On the television in the background, the news report continues, showing disaster footage of PEOPLE bloodied, screaming.  CUT TO:  EXT. BLACK SITE - AFGHANISTAN  The war on terror is growing and spreading, like an octopus, throughout the base. We trace the new tentacles of the CIA facility - more hangars, vehicles, PEOPLE moving to and fro.  REPORTER 
cia guard		 You Agency guys are twisted. The detainee is ready. Daniel nods, weary. Then a monkey reaches through the bars and steals the remainder of Daniel's ice cream cone. He looks at the monkey and laughs.
maya		I had you picked up instead of killing you because you're not a violent man and you don't deserve to die.
ghul		Thank you.
maya		But you do have deep ties to Al Qaeda that I want to ask you about before you get sent to your next location, which might be Israel. Ghul looks ashen.
ghul		What do you want to know?
maya		I'm going to ask you a series of questions based on your knowledge of Al Qaeda and your position as key financier for the organization.
ghul		I have dealt with the mukhabarat, I have no wish to be tortured again. Ask me a question, I can answer it.
maya		What can you tell me about Atiyah Abd al-Rahman.
ghul		He works for Zawahiri. He's in charge of military tactics.
maya		In what context have you ever heard the name Abu Ahmed?
ghul		He works for Faraj and bin Laden. He is his most trusted courier. Maya works hard to hide how pleased she is to have this confirmation. She's not entirely successful.
maya		What makes you say that?
ghul		He brought me many messages from the Sheikh.
maya		Where did you last see him, and where is he now?
ghul		You will never find him.
maya		Why is that?
ghul		Even I couldn't find him. He always contacted me out of the blue. He is one of the disappeared ones.
daniel		What do you like? Bob Marley? Reggae? Egyptian music? Just let me know, if there's music you like, I can make a call.
daniel		Can I be honest with you? I'm bad news. I'm not your friend. I'm not gonna help you. I'm gonna break you. Beat.
bradley		You're in luck, I got you a one-on- one with Faraj.
maya		Seriously? Thank you.
bradley		Don't thank me until you hear what I want for it. He drops a folder on her desk.
maya		Deal.
bradley		Don't you want to see what's in the folder?
maya		You want family ties, financial networks, media sources, disgruntled employees, imminent threats, homeland plots,
maya		Foreign cells, health status, trade craft, recruiting tactics -- anything else?
maya		A lot of brothers told us Abu Ahmed was bin Laden's courier and that he worked very closely with you.
faraj		You're thinking of Abu Khalid.
maya		Who?
faraj		Al Buluchi. My courier for the Sheikh.
maya		Okay, so you're telling me that all the other brothers are wrong, and there's some famous Buluchi guy that is working for you and bin Laden that I've never even heard of?
faraj		Why should you have heard of him?
maya		What does this Buluchi guy look like?
faraj		Tall, long white beard, thin. He uses a cane.
maya		Kind of like Gandolf?
faraj		Who?
maya		When was the last time you saw him?
faraj		A month ago, in Karachi, but I don't know where he is now. Sometimes I wouldn't even see him, he would just tell me where to leave the messages.
maya		I don't believe you. The GUARD in the room with them leans forward and SLAPS Faraj across the face. Faraj's expression doesn't change and Maya herself remains flat and steady, unmoved by the violence. She's not quite the same young lady she was a few years ago.
faraj		You can't force me to tell you something I don't know.
maya		You do realize this is not a normal prison. You determine how you are treated, and your life will be very uncomfortable until you give me information I need. The guard slaps Faraj again. Faraj is impassive.
maya		Faraj is completely denying knowing Abu Ahmed, and that's using every measure we have.
daniel		He's either going to withhold or die from the pressure you're putting on him.
maya		Do you want to take a run at him?
daniel		No.
maya		No? Since when?
daniel		You know, I've been meaning to tell you: I'm getting outta here.
maya		What? You okay?
daniel		I'm fine. I've just seen too many guys naked. It's gotta be over a hundred at this point. I need to go do something normal for awhile.
maya		Like what?
daniel		Go to Washington, do the dance, see how that environment works.
maya		I'm not going to find Abu Ahmed from
daniel		They killed my monkeys. Something about an escape. Can you fucking believe that?
maya		Sorry, Dan.
daniel		Look, Maya, you gotta be really careful with detainees now. The politics are changing and you don't want to be the last one holding a dog collar when the oversight committee comes.
maya		I know.
daniel		And watch your back when you get back to Pakistan. Everyone knows you there now.
policeman		Where are you going?
maya		To the Marriott. I assume you noticed the dip plates.
policeman		But you have a bag - The policeman motions to a DUFFEL BAG resting on the rear seat.
maya		It's a gym bag. Maya does not get out of the car. She stares at him defiantly. He advances forward a bit. She rolls up her window, flicks the door lock, and starts dialing her cell phone. The policeman walks away to rejoin his group. The police confer. The original policeman returns, this time with several other cops. They knock on the glass. Hard. Maya stares straight ahead.
maya		Fucking checkpoints. Maya sits down, absorbed in her Blackberry.
jessica		Maya?
maya		Yeah.
jessica		We're socializing. Be social. Maya puts away her blackberry.
jessica		Look, I know Abu Ahmed is your baby, but it's time to cut the umbilical cord.
maya		No, it's not.
jessica		So Faraj went south on you - it happens. There are still cells in London and Spain planning the next round of attacks.
maya		I can work on it at the same time - plus I think it's a good thing that he lied.
jessica		No, not at the expense of protecting the homeland, you can't. Wait a minute, why is it a good thing?
maya		You sound just like Bradley. He doesn't believe in my lead either.
jessica		Or it's confirmation bias.
maya		He's probably stuck in some check- point somewhere.
jessica		You two hooked up yet?
maya		Hello, I work with him. I'm not that girl, that fucks. It's unbecoming.
jessica		So? A little foolin' around wouldn't hurt you.
jessica		The Jords have a mole!
maya		What? Jessica pops a CD into Maya's computer, loads a file that plays the same video clip we have just seen.
jessica		He made this video to prove his bona fides.
maya		Shut the fuck up! The camera stops on one man, BALAWI.
maya		This could be it!
jessica		This is it.
continuous		Bradley has just finished watching the video. Maya and Jessica are in his office waiting for his verdict.
jessica		He's right there in the inner circle.
bradley		I don't buy it. Didn't you tell me yourself nobody turns on Al Qaeda?
jessica		The Jords worked him for a year. Dinners, money. They've convinced him that it's his patriotic duty to turn on Al Qaeda and get rich doing it.
bradley		Yeah, so the Jords say.
maya		The key is to meet him so we can figure out for ourselves what he can actually do.
bradley		He really asked for a dialysis machine? You can fill the damn thing with poison.
jessica		The meeting with Balawi is off. He can't come here to Islamabad.
maya		Can't or won't?
jessica		He's not going to travel - security
maya		He knows we're white. You'll get kidnapped up there. DAVID, an analyst, adds his two cents to the conversation -
david		We could do it somewhere else - Germany, or the UK? He's got a clean passport.
jessica		He's not going to travel out of Al Qaeda territory.
david		And you're not going to him.
jessica		I'm not. Believe me.
david		What about Camp Chapman? Afghanistan. That could be safe territory.
jessica		Don't be so literal. Everyone likes cake. It's not too late for you to come, you know. It will be fun.
maya		I don't want to be a straphangar. It's your show. You were the first to see the potential in this.
maya		Cool. Bring me back a bottle.
jessica		Not to get technical, but this guy is actually the first big break we've had since 9/11. To big breaks and the little people that make them happen. Clink.
john		Do you think he might be exaggerating his access?
jessica		Possibly. But Al Qaeda needs doctors and they are short staffed and that could explain his rise. In six months to a year, if he doesn't fuck up, he could be called in to treat bin Laden. And at that moment, with 25 mil on the table, I think he gives up the Big Man. And if he doesn't, we kill him.
jessica		So John?  When he arrives, I'll set the tone, and then I'll flip it to you - and you'll talk about asset protection.
john		Roger that.
jessica		Then Lauren, I know you want to get some questions in there - but give Balawi time after John speaks. We'll cover the basics and have his birthday cake, then we'll get to the nitty gritty.
zied		I'll introduce you, and you introduce your team. He knows this is a high level meeting.
securty guard		Quick question: all is taking place inside our main building?
jessica		Right. And Lauren? Washington will want real time updates so please stay on top of that. Be concise. The Director is in the loop. And I wouldn't be surprised if he doesn't update the President.
lauren		Yeah, I'm on it. They take in the possibilities.
jessica		Now, I just need to get Balawi's ass down here.
jessica		 Why are there gate guards there? We talked about this, no one is supposed to be there when my source arrives. You might have spooked him already!
securty guard		Procedures only work if we follow them every time.
jessica		This time is different - I'm sorry I can't explain, but it's for a good cause.
securty guard		Look, I'm responsible for everyone's safety, okay? It's not just about you.
jessica		I just need them to go away for a minute. You can search him as soon as he gets here. The Security Guard pauses, then into his radio:
securty guard		Okay, he's coming. We're gonna search him when he gets here. Everyone prepares. The car gets closer and closer, a driver in front and a passenger in back.
blackwater guard		 Is he supposed to limp like that?
securty guard		Take your hand out of your pocket! Hey!
balawi		Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar
blackwater guard		 Get you hand out of your pocket!
balawi		Allahu Akbar. Jessica's smile fades And Balawi detonates a suicide vest hidden under this jacket and the resulting shrapnel storm pulps the crowd, massacring them all -
jeremy		You okay? No response.
prisoner		He's dead, in Afghanistan, 2001. I buried him with my own hands.
interrogator		Where?
prisoner		Kabul. Maya stares at the screen.
maya		I don't believe this.
jeremy		Sorry, Maya, I always liked this lead. Jeremy leaves Maya at her computer. She continues to stare at the screen.
maya		I'm going to smoke everybody involved in this op, and then I'm going to kill bin Laden. Off the darkness in her eyes we -
george		I want to make something absolutely clear.
debbie		Hi. I painstakingly combed through everything in the system and found this.
maya		Doesn't matter, but I wish I had that five years ago. How come I never saw it before?
debbie		Nobody saw it, most likely. There was a lot of white noise after 9/11, countries wanting to help out, we got millions of tips and...
daniel		Fuck. Really?
daniel		Ok, but he's dead. So doesn't that make him a little less interesting to you?
daniel		Okay, what are you basing this on?
maya		We have no intercepts about Abu Ahmed dying.  
maya		Yes, I fucking want it to be true. Maya slams the desk.
maya		I am calm.
maya		Move heaven and earth and bring me this fucking Sayeed family's phone number.
daniel		As-Salamu alaykum.
wolf		Alaykum salam.
daniel		I need a couple hundred thousand. Four max.
wolf		Where you gonna get that?
daniel		From you.
wolf		You think so?
daniel		This could crack open the facilitator Maya's been looking for by giving us a phone number.
wolf		As you know, Abu Ghraib and Gitmo fucked us. The detainee program is now fly paper. We got senators jumping out of our asses, and the Director is very concerned. They will not stop until they have a body. There it is. The quid pro quo. There's a reason he's called The Wolf. Daniel considers all that he'll go through if he volunteers to be the fall guy for the controversial program.
daniel		I ran it. I'll defend it.
daniel		It's good to be back in Kuwait. It's good to see you again, it's been awhile. The businessman doesn't answer.
kuwaiti businessman		Why should I help you?
daniel		Because we're friends.
kuwaiti businessman		You say we are friends. How come you only call me when you need help? But when I need something - you are too busy to pick up the phone. I don't think we are friends.
daniel		Fair enough. How about a V10 Lamborghini? How's that for friendship?
daniel		(to the Kuwaiti
daniel		Is this a Balboni? Fuck me. This is nice. What are you thinking?
kuwaiti businessman		I think I'll choose this one. The salesman retreats to a back office.
daniel		That's a nice choice, my friend. Daniel gives the Kuwaiti a slip of paper.
kuwaiti man		Who is it?
daniel		Who do you think? The guy's a terrorist. His mother lives here. I just need her phone number.
kuwaiti man		There will be no repercussions in Kuwait?
daniel		Somebody might die at some point in Pakistan. They shake hands.
maya		Hey, Jack.
jack		You're not gonna like this, he's on the phone, but there's no team to deploy right now.
maya		Fuck. She dashes out runs down the hall to an Exit sign - bursts through the door to a staircase -
maya		How come you haven't deployed a team to stay in Rawalpindi?
larry		For one thing, it's dangerous. For another, the area is too congested for us to be effective without some predictive intelligence.
maya		That's why you should forward deploy - so you can shorten your response time.
larry		Still, it wouldn't work.
maya		Why?
larry		The guy never stays on the phone long enough.
maya		You haven't tried.
larry		Look, I don't have the personnel.
maya		That's bullshit.
larry		As it is, my guys don't get any sleep tracking the threats within Pakistan. Larry pushes past her to leave, and she follows him.
maya		Right, I understand. But I don't really care if your guys get sleep or not. Maya looks at Larry's team sleeping on the couch.
larry		This guy you're obsessed with, what's his name again?
maya		Abu Ahmed al Kuwaiti is the nom de guerre. His true name, we think, is Ibraheem Sayeed. His family lives in Kuwait.
larry		Wasn't it, like, eight brothers - and a million cousins - that we know about - anyone could be calling home -
maya		I know -
larry		- It's not like he's saying, "Hey mom, it's me, the terrorist."
maya		Over the course of two months, he's called home from six different pay phones, from two different cities, never using the same phone twice. And when his mother asked him where he was, he lied. He said that he was in a place in the country with bad cell reception -- implying he was in the Tribals -- but he was in
larry		Maybe he just doesn't like his mom?
maya		No. Not okay. Look, Abu Ahmed is too smart to tip his hand by talking about ops on the phone: he works for bin Laden. The guys that talk about ops on the phone don't get that job. Larry looks away.
maya		I really need to talk to you about beefing up our surveillance operation on the caller.
bradley		We don't have a surveillance operation on the caller.  Someone just tried to blow up Times Square and you're talking to me about some facilitator who some detainee seven years ago said might have been working with Al Qaeda? Maya is practically shaking with zealous rage at her inability to bend Bradley to her will.
maya		He's the key to bin Laden.
bradley		I don't fucking care about bin Laden. I care about the next attack. You're going to start working on American Al Qaeda cells. Protect the homeland.
maya		bin Laden is the one who keeps telling them to attack the homeland.
maya		You just want me to nail some low level Mullah-crack-a-dulla so that you can check that box on your resume that says while you were in Pakistan you got a real terrorist. But the truth is you don't understand Pakistan, and you don't know Al Qaeda. Either give me the team I need to follow this lead, or the other thing you're gonna have on your resume is being the first Station Chief to be called before a congressional committee for subverting the efforts to capture or kill bin Laden.
bradley		You're fucking out of your mind.
maya		I need four techs in a safe house in Rawalpindi and four techs in a safe house in Peshawar. Either send them out or send me back to DC and explain to the Director why you did it.
jack		Fuck the mom, we got the man himself. Jack puts a cell phone down on the counter.
maya		I love you!
maya		It would be convenient for him to drop tapes off if he's sending either from bin Laden or from an intermediary. When he wants to make a call, he leaves the house, walks a few blocks, then switches on the phone. We need to keep canvassing the neighborhood until we find him.
larry		We got a shooter! Larry tries reversing but a compact car wheels in right behind
tech		We're blocked.
hakim		Let me talk to them.
hakim		They said white faces don't belong here. If they don't move, shoot them. A tense beat while the men stare, then finally leave.  INT. U.S. EMBASSY - ISLAMABAD - CUBICLE MAZE - DAY  On a large wall map, Maya circles "Peshawar" in red.  CUT TO:  EXT. ROADS/HIGHWAY - PAKISTAN  Larry's SUV speeds onto a highway, weaving in and out of dense traffic.  SUPERIMPOSE: PESHAWAR, PAKISTAN  INT. SUV  In the backseat, the Computer Tech is getting tossed around, trying to hang onto the Geo Locating device in his lap. The Geo Locator starts to BEEP - a blinking red light.
computer tech		He's east of us. Try the market.
jack		Lahore street, which is also in Pesh, thirty minutes. Wazir Bag Road, five. Nishterabad, five. Phandu Road, five minutes, the Grand Trunk Road, forty five seconds. There's no pattern. Sometimes he calls every two weeks - sometimes every three - there's no consistency - I can't predict when he's gonna make another call because the guy's erratic.
maya		Do you think its intentional?
jack		It might be. Maybe it just looks erratic to us. I just can't tell.
later		Maya and Bradley and several other STAFFERS watch the protest through a window -  EXT. AMERICAN EMBASSY STREET  The CROWD grows larger and more unruly.  INT. STATION CHIEF'S OFFICE
maya		ISI fucked you. I'm so sorry Joseph. It's the first time she's addressed him by his first name. Startling, to hear kindness in her voice. Joseph turns to reply then thinks better of it and walks away.
tech		Still on tower three! Five. Signal getting stronger. Ten! Larry continues driving straight down the main road.
larry		Heading South. The van passes horse-drawn carts, men on cell phones, fruit stands. The Tech studies his screen.
tech		He's up at five again. Fifteen. Twenty.
larry		He's driving in circles. Larry now drives very fast back to the main road.
tech		No.
main road		And now Larry stops in the middle of the market.
larry		Let's hope he comes back around. Beat.
tech		Twenty. Thirty. Forty! Fifty - we're within ten meters of him. Larry scans the street - sees a half dozen guys on cell phones.
larry		Look at the cars. He's in a vehicle. Larry spots something:
tech		Could be.
larry		You got him?
tech		I got him.
larry		I'm breaking off - The grey minivan pulls away.
maya		Is this what I think it is?
larry		The guy you've been looking for, geo- located on his cell phone in his white car.
maya		Thank you!
larry		If you're right, the whole world's gonna want in on this, so you gotta stick to your guns now.
maya		I need a picket line along the GT highway and men spaced at intervals along the road and at every exit.
alexander		Maya, I know -
maya		So you agree with me now. This is important?
alexander		No, I've just learned from my predecessor that life is better when I don't disagree with you.
guard		Good morning.
maya		Good morning, Amad. Maya gets in her car. The gate opens. As she starts pulling out onto the street, suddenly a car drives up in front of her and THREE SHOOTERS come out and hammer Maya's Toyota.
alexander		Doesn't matter. You're on a list. Next time there might not be bulletproof glass to save you.
maya		Yeah.
alexander		And you, of all people, should know that once you are on their list, you never get off.
steve		Basically we had a guy who rolled with Al Qaeda and did services for them. We lost him for seven years and now we found him again -- and boy does he have a really nice house. Is that it?
maya		Pretty much.
steve		Okay, let's go talk to the boss.
maya		The question isn't are the Paks protecting bin Laden?'
cia director		Go ahead.
steve		If you take a right out of Islamabad and drive about forty-five minutes North, you'll find yourself here in Abbottabad. A middle class community - some ex-military - not particularly interesting to us. Except we did find this compound, which is unique. We got a sixteen foot wall around the entire perimeter, the windows are blacked out. It's a fortress.
cia director		Can't you put a camera somewhere - in the trees - to get a look into the main house?
george		It will probably be discovered.
cia director		We have to get a look into the house. The Director moves to the satellite image.
george		The PMA - The Pakistan Military Academy. It's their West Point.
cia director		And how close is that to the house?
george		About a mile. A WOMAN'S voice from the back of the room.
cia director		Who are you?
maya		I'm the motherfucker that found this place, Sir. The boss studies her for a moment then turns back to the model.
cia director		I want to know more about who's inside this house by the end of the week. The brass files out, leaving Steve and Maya.
steve		"Motherfucker?" Really?
maya		 Morning, George. In red magic marker, Maya writes the number 21 on the glass. Then circles it. George looks up.
steve		Swing by, I want to show you something.
steve		This is from a few minutes ago. We've got two males, two females, and seven kids. Maya points to one of the shapes in the courtyard.
maya		Who's that?
steve		I'm saying that's Bushra. The brother's wife.
maya		How do you know the gender?
steve		 This is a clothes-line here, for laundry. Men don't mess with the wash. We watch that shape move away from the clothes-line and back to the house.
maya		What's that up there? (pointing to the other
steve		Those are kids. They're shuffling around, sword-fighting or something with sticks.
maya		Your female is moving fast.
steve		That's what I wanted to show you. (to the Imagery
maya		So you found two males, three females?
steve		That's correct. Maya suddenly gets it.
maya		You're missing a male.
steve		Yes we are.
maya		Wow.
continuous		George is on one side of a conference table, on the other side is the DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR, THE SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR, and the
george		If there are three females, there ought to be three males. Observant Muslim women either live with parents or with their husbands. We think there's a third family living in the house.
george		Hope? Hope is not a targeting layer. You give up your hope right now. We scanned for heat signatures, but we can't validate if it's a man or a woman up there. We found a safe house, but we can't get a vantage point to fire a telescope over the balcony wall.
george		We talked about burrowing a pin hole camera but there's a high risk of discovery.
george		What was wrong with that? The sample would be too diluted.
george		They don't make telephone calls from the compound. We pulled the cell tower nearby.
george		The unidentified third male does not get groceries. He does not leave the compound. He does not present himself for photographs.
dealer		(reading from the
george		You know we lost our ability to prove that when we lost the detainee program.
george		He'd be the first successful drug dealer never to have dealt drugs. He has no internet access to the house. He makes no phone calls either in or out. Who's he selling to, who's he buying from, how's he making his money? And if you're going to say he's retired, I'd say where's his swimming pool, where's the gold cage with the falcons? And why does he send his courier to the two cities in Pakistan we most associate with Al Qaeda, that have nothing particularly to do with heroin production? The National Security Advisor taps his pencil impatiently.
george		I have to admit, I just don't get the rhythms of politics.
george		You know, you're right, I agree with everything you just said. What I meant was, a man in your position, how do you evaluate the risk of not doing something, the risk of potentially letting bin Laden slip through your fingers? George shakes his head with an "aww shucks" kind of shake.
general		I actually tried to kill this program a couple of times. They've gone through an initial round of testing, and they have excellent radar defeat - we just haven't tested them with people in them yet. The General continues his briefing..
justin		Excuse me. Can I ask a question? What do we need this for in Libya? Gaddafi's anti-air is virtually non- existent. Maya looks over, not sure what to say.
george		Gentlemen, can I have your attention? My name is George. I run the Af-Pak division at CTC, and I'm primary on this for the agency. This is a title fifty operation.
maya		There are two narratives about the location of Osama bin Laden. This registers on the SEALs.
justin		Excuse me. You got an intel source on the ground?
maya		No.
justin		No? Okay, so how do you know it's bin Laden? We've been on this op before, you know.
maya		Bin Laden uses a courier to interact with the outside world. By locating the courier, we've located bin Laden.
patrick		That's really the intel? That's it?
maya		Quite frankly, I didn't even want to use you guys, with your dip and your velcro and all your gear bullshit. I wanted to drop a bomb but people didn't believe in this lead enough to drop a bomb, so they're using you guys as canaries on the theory that if bin Laden isn't there, you can sneak away and no one will be the wiser.
george		They are nervous downtown. I don't think we'll get approval this decision cycle. They look up and notice that Maya is standing outside George's office staring at them through the glass. She angrily wipes the number 128 off the window and changes it to 129. Wolf nods.
wolf		It's her against the world.
george		Oh yeah.
maya		We've spun up the SEALs - we've done everything humanly possible to collect on the compound, and the collection is not going to get any better.
george		We have to keep working it.
maya		You're going to come into work one day, and there's going to be a black moving van and a 'for sale' sign in front of that compound. George drops his tray down.
george		Maya, you didn't prove it.
cia director		I'm about to go look the President in the eye and what I'd like to know, no fucking bullshit, is where everyone stands on this thing. Now, very simply. Is he there or is he not fucking there? He looks to the Deputy Director.
deputy director		We all come at this through the filter of our own past experiences. I remember Iraq WMD very clearly, I fronted that and I can tell you the case for that was much stronger than this case.
cia director		Yes or no.
deputy director		We don't deal in certainty, we deal in probability. I'd say there's a sixty percent probability he's there. The CIA Director points to Wolf.
wolf		I concur. Sixty percent.
george		I'm at eighty percent. Their OPSEC is what convinces me.
cia director		You guys ever agree on anything?
daniel		Well, I agree with sixty, we're basing this mostly on detainee reporting and I spent a bunch of time in those rooms - who knows? Maya shoots Daniel a look. What a traitor.
cia director		This is a cluster-fuck, isn't it?
jeremy		I'd like to know what Maya thinks.
deputy director		We're all incorporating her assessment into ours. Maya can't take it anymore:
maya		One hundred percent, he's there - okay, fine, ninety-five percent because I know certainty freaks you guys out - but it's a hundred!
cia director		They're all cowed. What do you think of the girl?
jeremy		I think she's fucking smart. As the door closes.
cia director		We're all smart, Jeremy.
cia director		May I join you? She nods, gulps.
maya		Twelve years. I was recruited out of high school.
cia director		Do you know why we did that?
maya		I don't think I can answer that question, sir. I don't think I'm allowed to answer.
cia director		What else have you done for us besides bin Laden?
maya		Nothing. I've done nothing else. He evaluates her... weighing her certainty against his decades of Washington experience.
cia director		Well, you certainly have a flare for it.
justin		So, Patrick, be honest with me. You really believe this story?
patrick		I do.
justin		What part convinced you? Patrick motions to Maya.
patrick		Her confidence. Maya smiles, laughs.
justin		Really? Okay. That's the kind of concrete data point I'm looking for. He shakes his head.
george		Maya, I wanted you to hear it first. You know that thing we talked about? It's going to happen.
maya		When?
george		Tonight. Good luck. She hangs up, turns back to the SEALs, who are still playing horseshoes with the grace of young guys in their prime. Their lives are in her hands.
maya		Testing - testing 1 - 2 - 3 - A SEAL with his com set on gives her the thumbs up. She looks around at all the impressive technology in the makeshift Command Center. She walks over to Hakim and they leave together.
maya		Thank you for coming with me.
hakim		Of course. I'll go with you where ever you want. A few hundred feet in front of them they can see SEALs preparing their gear.
maya		Fuck Hakim, what if I'm wrong?
hakim		Please don't drop it while we're in the house.
maya		I'm serious.
hakim		Me too. Don't drop anything while I'm inside. Off her anxious smile --
lz		A top-secret LZ. Where twenty-two SEALs in full battle rattle and an attack DOG load into TWO STEALTH BLACKHAWK helicopters Moving fast, wordlessly, loading weapons and gear - under the intense bright white light, then - - Doors slam, engines whine - Fifty yards away, Maya stands alone, looking on. - And the HELOS rise above the lights and disappear into the night.  INT. STEALTH BLACKHAWK HELICOPTER - PRINCE 52 - PILOT'S CABIN  Hands feather the controls as the pilot -- one the famed Nightstalker's from the Special Operations Aviation Regiment  160th -- flies without lights, using only his NODs for night vision.
jared		Hey Justin, what are you listening to?
justin		Tony Robbins.
jared		Tony Robbins?
justin		You should listen to it. I got plans for after this. I want to talk to you guys about it. It's not selling. You become a representative. Everyone chuckles.
patrick		Who here's been in a helo crash before? Everyone raises their hands.
pilot		Ten minutes.
pilot		Three mikes to target. Standby for doors open. Inside the dim interior, illuminated by only blinking instrumentation, the men are tense, quiet. We pass slowly from face to face, noting each SEAL's contemplation of the mission that lies ahead. Some of them are anonymous soldiers. Many we've come to know: Justin, joyfully bobbing his head, grooving to his iPod... Saber's eyes fixed on a thousand-yard stare... Hakim struggles to get comfortable and control his anxiety, wipes away sweat... Patrick checks his gear for the hundredth time.  CO-PILOT Two minutes.  EXT. STEALTH BLACKHAWKS - PRINCE 51 AND PRINCE 52 -  Outside: Darkness....just a THUMP THUMP THUMP... And then we see them: flying in tight formation, the oddly rectangular helos, with their black stealth panels and sharp edges, like two alien spaceships advancing.  INT. EXT STEALTH BLACKHAWK - NIGHT
door		Patrick flings open the side door. Night wind rushes in -
pilot		Thirty seconds. Patrick leans out for a visual as the wind rips his face -
patrick		 Hey! Slide right. - Then lurches down, falling to within 15 feet of the swirling ground, rotors churning the dust, creating near BROWNOUT conditions, a dust hurricane
jared		Ir-fah ee-dek!
saber		That's not a door.
seal		Failed breach. They hustle to the next entry way and prepare another breach
justin		Abrar! The figure, Abu Ahmed's brother, ABRAR, re-appears at the end of the hallway. He pokes his head out -
justin		Shut those fucking kids up. O.S. the kids quiet down.
breacher		There's no fucking way we want to blow this thing. The gate is solid.
justin		Yeah. I forgot...were we supposed to crash that helo? Patrick allows himself a smile.
patrick		Ibrahim tried to shoot me through the door. I popped him from the outside.
justin		I fucking smoked Abrar and his wife.
patrick		Still alive?
justin		She's gonna bleed out.
patrick		What a fuckin' mess - The door blows - and they keep moving -
seal		Breacher up. A charge is prepared. Justin, who is now inside one of the side rooms, sees Jared standing close to the door.
justin		Hey man, move! Jared moves just as -
justin		Yeah.
saber		Khaled! Saber waits with his carbine raised. Anxiety crosses his face. He's vulnerable here, an easy target if Khaled were to come out blasting.
seal		 This is Echo 05, I've got unknowns gathering on the Southwest Rooftops. Hakim, move those guys back.
hakim		 Go back brothers, this is official government business, and there is nothing to see here!!
seal		I'm going to start wasting them.
hakim		Please! They will kill you! The onlookers pause. SEAL aiming lasers dance across their chests.
woman		He is al Noori Hasan.
jared		(shouting back to
patrick		Talk to a kid. Jared kneels down next to a nine year-old girl huddled in the corner and snaps open a chem light. He gives her the glowing green wand.
justin		 Do not leave a hard drive. The SEALs gather everything they can.
saber		I shot the third floor guy.
justin		Good for you. You want to help?
justin		  At least ten minutes.  EXT. DIEGO CORRIDOR
commanding officer		  You have four.  INT. SECOND FLOOR - MEDIA ROOM
justin		  This is a gold mine, I need more time than that.  EXT. DIEGO CORRIDOR
commanding officer		  If you're not at the LZ in four, I'm going to leave your ass behind.  INT. SECOND FLOOR - MEDIA ROOM  Justin yells to his team.
justin		Four minutes!
pilot		Are you Maya?
maya		Yeah.
pilot		That's the only name they gave me.
****Dialogues from script :Zerophilia.txt****

luke		Are you all right?
alexa		I'm sorry.     I'm from Utah.
luke		It's okay.
alexa		Are you alone out here?
luke		Oh, wow.    I'm really sorry.
luke		Uh, what is it?
alexa		Pastry.
alexa		So, this "Survival Quest" is your vacation?
luke		Yeah. It's my third try.     Kind a' lame, huh?
alexa		No. Seven days alone in the wilderness?   I'd be afraid.
luke		It's just something I really wanted to do.
alexa		His shoes. Fishing lures.        The electric drill.
luke		Good.
alexa		You're all wet and muddy. Why don't I hang those up to dry?
luke		Thanks.    I'm okay.
alexa		I'm propositioning you.
luke		Oh... Oh, wow. You are?
janine		It's remarkable. Sort of retro. I thought you were gettin' a pickup?
luke		I changed my mind.
keenan		It's awesome. It's pleather.
luke		Fuck you.    You think it's stupid.
janine		Oh my God. You got laid. Finally! Who is she?
keenan		I didn't say a word! I swear!     You know Janine. She's got X-ray vision.  Camping! A total stranger.
janine		I knew that whole "waitin' to meet the right girl" thing was crap. Congratulations! I have to get to Physics. The truck's great.
keenan		See ya', hottie.
janine		Could find something to call me, other than what every guy in the world would say?
keenan		"Sweetheart?" "Babe?" "Aphrodite?"
luke		Look, I know it's dopey. But don't you recognize it? It's painted and the muffler's switched out, -but this was my dad's.
keenan		Ten years.     A little dried out.
luke		First off, that woman. We didn't go all the way, you know?
keenan		Yeah?   Okay, so?
luke		You think technically I'm still a virgin?
keenan		Were you inside her?
luke		Yeah.
keenan		It counts.     Next.   ...What?
luke		I been havin' this weird dream. The thing is, I think maybe the dream's real. Forget it. No way I'm tellin' you.
keenan		You know enough of my secrets to get me shot. Sharon's mom on Thanksgiving? What the fuck dream is there you can't tell me?
luke		It's about part of me gettin' smaller. An important part.
keenan		You have gotta' be fuckin' kiddin' me. You're not thirteen!
luke		Screw you.     Maybe I caught something.
keenan		I think it's good you bought this truck.
max		I can do the gasket for twenty bucks. But new T-sprocks, for this thing? Two, three hundred, maybe?
luke		Shit.    Can I hold off on that?
max		No skin off my ass. But a few days, weeks, your whole transmission could blow.
luke		Ah, Jeez.     I shouldn't got this.
max		Four hundred seventy-five horsepower. Twenty-eight inch wheels. It's a classic. Let me dig around out back. Maybe we got a used set.
luke		That'd be great.   Thanks.
michelle		What's wrong with it?
luke		Oh, just needs a new gasket and a couple T-sprocks. The flanges are sheared off.   No big deal.
michelle		You have to watch my brother, Max. He's sellin' you "T-sprocks?"
luke		Yeah?
michelle		There's no such thing. Last week he sold Mrs. Gustafson a whole set: six hundred bucks. My name's Michelle.
luke		From New York. Poli-Sci transfer. I sort of asked around campus.
michelle		You did?
luke		You've prob'ly already got a stalker, huh?
michelle		No.
luke		You heard about Cafe Lunizia? Italian? They got New York style pizza. Make you feel at home.
michelle		You askin' me out?
luke		Oh, well, uh, -definitely!
chad		Hey, Spanky, let's go! Look forward to kickin' your puck ass.
luke		My ride.
michelle		Your name's "Spanky?"
luke		No, Puck Ass, but people just call me Luke. We're beatin' his frat boy team in street hockey. Pisses 'em off.
michelle		I'll talk to Max. Tell him to just replace the gasket.
luke		Thanks. So, what do you think? I'll just sit there while you eat. I won't even talk.
michelle		Look, I just split up with this total amoeba.
luke		Oh, I'm a paramecium. That's way more evolved. I'm practically pond scum.
michelle		Maybe I'll give you a call when the truck's ready.
luke		Great.    You mean to go out, right?
keenan		 Whoa. That was her!     Jesus, you're sweatin' like crazy.
luke		We're goin' out.
keenan		WHAT?!
luke		Look!   My chest!
keenan		Yeah?
luke		I had hair. Come on! Not a lot, but you've seen me -some- right?
keenan		Okay, I don't know.    So?
luke		Well, where'd it go?
keenan		I really thought you gettin' laid was gonna' help. What is it with you, man? I mean, you're smarter than me, you're better lookin' than me.
luke		I am not.
keenan		I know. But I'm just sayin', you can get any girl you want.
luke		Easy for you, you've got Janine.
keenan		I'm still workin' on my GED. How long you think Brainiac's gonna' wanna' hang with that?
luke		She worships you.
keenan		Man, I'm gonna' be that wild fling she had with the local dude from the bike shop. "God, what was his name?"
luke		You're crazy.
keenan		You're gonna' have a great time with her tonight. Just be yourself. ...Mostly.
michelle		I caught him with my best friend. Former. Such a cliche'.
luke		Sorry.
michelle		Winthrop Hawkins. "Hawk." From this Park Avenue family. He'd know what kind of mushrooms those are, what the best wine is.
luke		The best wine is beer.
michelle		I'm such a moron.
luke		You're not.
michelle		No, I am.    I have incontrovertible proof.
luke		I'm not.
michelle		And it's GREEN! That's the one color tattoo they can't REMOVE!
luke		Oh.   Bummer.
michelle		I'm considering a prosthetic foot.
luke		Nothin'. Maybe just kind a' hot out here. You want moron? When my dad died, -it's okay, I was nine. I barely knew what was goin' on- But I thought the tombstone was really sad looking, so I painted smiley faces and fish all over it.
michelle		That's sweet.
luke		Yeah, I'm sure dad would've loved that.
michelle		So, what do you think makes a good relationship?
luke		For real? I don't know. Friendship. Great sex. Knowing you want to be there even when it gets scary or bloody.
michelle		Whoa.     Where'd that come from?
luke		Sorry.
michelle		No, it's just not the usual guy thing. ...You're great, you know?
luke		Will you excuse me a sec'?
luke		-AAH!
first waiter		Table twenty-nine. Like to bring her the cannoli special.
keenan		We takin' up boxing?
luke		I don't know. I am.
keenan		What's goin' on? You competin' for Mr. Universe this week?
luke		Everyone should just mind their own fucking business!
keenan		Didn't go so great, huh?
luke		It was goin' great. She's amazing. Funny. And really smart.    And the way she eats ravioli, like 'aah.'
keenan		Cool.
luke		Then I started feelin' all weird again, and,... oh, man, you'll think I'm nuts... Keen, I had breasts. I felt 'em.
keenan		Whoa, first date.     Definitely the 'new Luke!'
luke		No!     On me.
keenan		You're startin' to creep me out. Listen, I think I know what's goin' on, okay? "Acute Adolescent Anxiety." It's from the stress of college, girls, grades. It's really common.
luke		I'm not an adolescent.    Where'd you get this crap?!
keenan		The Net. I found all the symptoms right off: panic attacks, "Localized Alopecia" -that's hair loss. This doctor wrote back, "Any chance your friend, Luke, just lost his virginity?"
luke		You told, -you gave him my name?!
keenan		He's a doctor, back East. He's sending this information pack. Look, I started thinkin' you're goin' bipolar on me or somethin'. Come on, man, BREASTS?!
max		You son-of-a-bitch, stay the hell away from my sister!
luke		I came to apologize.
max		Get out a' here!   She's not home, anyway.
luke		Will you tell her I came by?
max		No. She's honest with you, so you bolt? And then what, you wake up feelin' sorry for her?
luke		No! Is that what she thinks?   I left 'cause a' what she said? That's crazy! She's like the most incredible girl I ever met!
max		Amazes even me, a guy's capacity to be a world-class asshole. Fortunately, I'm familiar with the cause.
luke		Will you please just tell her I came by? Forget it. I'll catch up with her on my own.
max		No.    You won't.
luke		Look, I'm gonna' see her again, -if she'll see me. I don't care what the fuck you say about it.
max		Oh, really?
luke		Yeah, really.
max		You get near her, I'll feed your nuts to the neighbor's dog!
luke		What kind a' dog is it?
max		Huh?
luke		I mean, is it a pitbull, or what?
max		Shrooms, huh?
sydney		Had a sudden intense craving for a cherry popsicle.
luke		You can check in that freezer.
sydney		What a relief. I'm Sydney.    You?
luke		Luke.
sydney		Workin' late, huh?   Luke?
luke		Yeah, four AM. It sucks.
sydney		Sometimes you guys are just unfathomably stupid.
luke		Excuse me?
sydney		Why in the world do guys say "it sucks" as if it were a bad thing? I mean, every guy's dying to get a blow job, right? So, you think they'd treat those words with profound respect, like holy scripture. "What an unbelievable sunset, honey: doesn't it just SUCK?,"... "You won an Olympic Gold Medal?!, that BLOWS!"
luke		I guess you're right.
sydney		It must be great at your age. That river of testosterone coursing through your veins, the damn about to burst! How about we just lock this place up and go for an Olympic Gold?
luke		No thanks.     Jeez, lady.
sydney		I ought to dye my hair.      Don't you think?
luke		Uh, I don't know.    Looks fine.
sydney		Your hair is such an incredible color.
luke		It's brown.
sydney		I love it. Do you think I could cut just a little piece? Match the color? It really "sucks."
luke		Nah, c'mon. You're messin' with me.
sydney		I'm not. I love it. You really should get rid a' that thing, anyway. I have clippers in my bag.
luke		What thing?
sydney		Cowlick. Right here.     See?   I can just snip it off.
luke		Hey.
sydney		What's the matter? Don't you like being touched? Don't you like being a guy?
luke		No. I mean,... What?      Sorry, but you're just bizarre.
sydney		May be. But I learned long ago, you can't change your true nature, even if it can change you.
luke		Holy shit. It's that lady from the store! Grey and black at the bar.
polly		That boy, Keenan, still giving you trouble?
janine		Actually, I tried exactly what you said.
polly		And...?
janine		Unbelievable! Thanks.
polly		Works every time.  Nice to meet you, darling. I hope you'll find not too many rules here, and the drinks not too dear.
michelle		Yeah, thanks. It's amazing.
janine		Isn't she great? Guys drive across the state just to buy a beer from her. Total loner, though.    No one's ever seen her with anyone.
michelle		What did she tell you to try?
luke		Thanks, man.
keenan		Oh, God. She's eyeing you.    I think she's comin' over.
sydney		Can I buy you a drink?
luke		Uh, no thanks. We're already here with dates and stuff.
sydney		You are?    Who? Where is she?
keenan		They're around somehwere.
sydney		Luke, if you like this girl, we better talk.
luke		What?
sydney		Anything happen since we last spoke? Hot flashes? Pressure in your chest?
luke		No.
keenan		Who are you?
sydney		Dr. Sydney Catchadourian.     Keenan, right?
luke		You know him?!
sydney		We exchanged E-mail.    I came right away.
keenan		From Philadelphia?   Why?
sydney		Your friend here has an extra chromosome.
luke		Someone put mushrooms in my mushroom sauce.
sydney		I tested your hair.
luke		You're like some whack job.   Get the hell away from me.
sydney		Denial, denial, denial. Always the first step. Keep him away from that girl.
keenan		What're you talkin' about?
sydney		Chromosomes. Most people have forty-six: Two X if you're a girl, an X and Y if you're a guy. He's got forty seven: An X, a Y, and a Z.
janine		We've only been together six months. And he's such a guy's guy, everyone's buddy, but, alcoholic parents, six months in "Juvey."
michelle		Wild past, huh?
janine		I think the only reason he's even alive right now, is okay, partly 'cause he's so damn smart, but mostly 'cause there's this one person, he knows, absolutely, no matter what, won't bale on him.
michelle		You.
janine		No. He doesn't trust me at all. Luke. He's a rock.
michelle		Yeah?
janine		So, yes, you can trust him. I'm hoping Keenan's the same way. 'Cause believe me, I'm not used to rocks, I'm used to pebbles.
michelle		Grains of sand.
janine		Everything okay?
keenan		Sure.   I need a drink.
jeremy		Another round?
sydney		Please. You see that couple over there? I don't get it. What's he see in her?
jeremy		The brunette? You kiddin'? I'd give my left one to be with her.
sydney		Yeah?   So could he.
michelle		Your friends sorta' like each other, huh?
luke		Super-glue. Thirty seconds together, you can't pull 'em apart.
michelle		How'd they meet?
luke		Keenan sold her a bike. I don't think they've been apart more than six hours since.
michelle		You're not s'posed to say that. That's a total pathetic, loser thing to say. But I'm gonna' take it as a huge compliment.
27.		MICHELLE  Okay, two word answers only. Why'd you ask me out in the first place?
luke		Beautiful. Unpretentious.     Why'd you say 'yes?'
michelle		Gentle.
luke		Okay, two words. What're you most passionate about?
michelle		Friendship. Trust.     You?
luke		Hockey.   ...Hockey.
michelle		So much for "deep."
luke		You.
michelle		Point zero zero zero one.
jeremy		Damn. Will you look at that tonsil hockey?
sydney		I'd prefer not. This could get bad.
jeremy		You've been staring at him all night. You got a thing for him, or what?
sydney		Actually, I'm hoping he's got one for me.
keenan		Looks like you two are gettin' on okay. Should we rack up another game?
michelle		Definitely! I'd like to get good at this pool thing.
luke		Go for it!
michelle		God.    Sorry.
luke		What?
keenan		Man, I'd be on the floor cryin' like a baby.
luke		No, I'm all right.
sydney		Jeremy! Bourbon. Fast!  Better give me the whole bottle.
keenan		In here.
luke		Uh- ah-
keenan		I'll get some ice.
luke		It's-!     Look!
keenan		What?
sydney		I was afraid a' this!  Make sure no one gets in!
31.		SYDNEY  Now, will you listen to me?!
luke		Oh, GOD!
sydney		It's gonna' come back.    Drink this!
luke		What're you givin' me?!
sydney		Valium. Flexeril. And a shitload of Darvon. You gotta' calm down.
luke		"Caaalm Down?!!!!!!"
sydney		Here we go...
luke		"CAAALM DOWN?!!!"
keenan		What's wrong with him?!
sydney		He's a Zerophiliac.
keenan		A what?! I'm gettin' a doctor! This isn't right!
sydney		I am a doctor! You breathe one word, anyone else sees him like this, and he's fucked! Pictures all over the net, tabloids, television!
luke		TELE-VISION?!!
sydney		No!  We're gonna' get it back!  You let me help him, he gets a normal body, lives a normal life. Now, you his friend or not?!
keenan		Now just wait a sec'?     Is it CONTAGIOUS?!
sydney		There are no recorded incidents of transmission from physical contact.
keenan		"Recorded incidents?!!"
luke		Oh, PLEASE God!     What did I DO WRONG?!
sydney		Nothing.   You're a Z.
keenan		"RECORDED INCIDENTS?!"     Oh my God, I used his deodorant!
sydney		Oh, will you calm down?
keenan		"C A L M    D O W N ?!!!"
luke		"C A L M    D O W N ?!!!"
sydney		Finally.
sydney		In the world?   A hundred. A thousand. There's no way to know. It doesn't show up in any normal DNA test. It's triggered when you first have sex.
luke		The woman in the RV!
keenan		 From Utah.
sydney		Now, you're Morphescent whenever you're aroused.
keenan		You tellin' me this is gonna' happen any time he gets the hots for a girl?
luke		Is there a cure?
sydney		It's not a disease!    But there are steps you can take.
luke		Well, what are they?
sydney		Take it easy. You can't rush this. Before anything, you need to try going all the way.
keenan		"All the way?"
sydney		You need to turn all the way into a female.
luke		You out of your mind?!
sydney		You have to give it a try.
keenan		Maybe we should get a second opinion.
luke		Yeah, may be! 'Cause you can FORGET THAT!
sydney		Fine, but I warn you, they've never seen this before. First, they'll try a barrage of antipsychotic medications, surgery, electroshock therapy, -god knows what.
keenan		If he were to try goin' all the way, then what?
luke		It ain't gonna' happen!
sydney		Oh, for Chris' sake! I'm trying to help you. That Z chromosome's not latent anymore! You don't get control a' that thing, you don't know when it's going to kick in, what it's gonna' do! You want to end up with three left breasts, behemoth hips and one testicle?!
keenan		How would he even do that?   Go all the way, I mean?
sydney		He's a Z.  You become Morphescent when you get turned on. You can change all the way when you have an orgasm.
luke		With who?
sydney		I'm available.
luke		No way!
sydney		Well, excuse me. Truth is, at this stage, you don't really need anyone else.
luke		Huh?
sydney		It's a lot to absorb, I know. When you're ready, give me a call. Your first time, you shouldn't be alone.
luke		Michelle. And I really like her, dad. But,...
luke		I'm not doin' it. I don't care what she says! I can control this thing.
keenan		How?
luke		I didn't know what was goin' on before. I do now, so, it's not gonna' be a problem. I just need to stay focused!
keenan		You mean, keep yourself from getting turned on? How're you gonna' do that? You get turned on by two scoops of ice cream.
janine		I knew we'd find 'em here.
michelle		We just wanted to know if you're alright. After last night.
luke		Yeah.    I'm fine.   Thanks.   Perfect.
michelle		Good.  Good.
luke		Me too.
janine		What is goin' on?!
keenan		We just need to be alone.   We got a big game tomorrow. Sometimes guys just need to hang with the guys, you know? No distractions?
janine		C'mon, Michelle. Let the boys play with their pucks.
luke		You TOLD HER?!
keenan		I had to. You know Janine.   She knew somethin' was up.
janine		I've read about this kinda' thing, but I didn't think it was real. It's so cool!
luke		It's disgusting!
janine		How can you say that? If I had a chance to be a guy for a day, I'd jump at it. Seriously, Keen, wouldn't you want to get inside a girl's body?
luke		Not my own!  Man, how could you tell her?!
keenan		She should be here. It's just weird, two guys alone, one turnin' into a girl.
janine		Yeah, I can't wait. Not exactly something you get to see every day.
luke		Forget it!
janine		What, HE gets to, and I don't!
luke		No one gets to!
janine		Should we put on some soft music?
keenan		You want a magazine in there?
keenan		How 'bout a couple beers?
janine		Maybe you want to take a bath?
janine		Does he sound different?
keenan		Think so.
janine		Luke?    You alright?
keenan		Whoa.
janine		Dude.
female luke		Happened fast, huh?
janine		Can we see?
keenan		Come on. It's not like I haven't seen you naked a hundred times. And she's a girl!
janine		Dude.  Of course they're perfect. I couldn't have tits like that?
female luke		Oh, God.     Look at me.
janine		You're really hot.    Victoria's Secret hot.
keenan		Sports Illustrated Swimsuit edition.
janine		Latvian Lesbians' Hidden Camera Chronicles.  Don't look at me, -it's your tape.
keenan		Look, I just wanna' get one thing straight. No way I'm gonna' sleep with you.
female luke		Man, even as a joke, that's just SICK!
janine		I will. I'm definitely not into the butch hair thing, though.   You gotta' do something about that.
female luke		This is too weird. This is freaking me out.
keenan		Should we call Dr. Catchadourian?
female luke		What for? I did it. Now, I can switch back. Get outta' here.
janine		Already?
keenan		Yeah, okay, yeah.
janine		Will you stop starin'?!
female luke		Janine? It's like I can't get in the right mood or something.
janine		Welcome to my world. Oh, honey, no one could in this situation.
female luke		You gotta' help. I need to do this right now!
janine		You can't force these things.
keenan		Some girls go half their lives before they even have one.
janine		Okay, Studly, what do you suggest?
keenan		She likes it when I tell her stuff.
janine		Like what?
keenan		"You're so beautiful," "I love your smile," "The English Patient was my favorite movie too."
keenan		Pizza!   Figured you'll want some after.
max		Hey.
janine		Can I help you?
max		I was lookin' for Luke.
keenan		Hey, man. He's not around right now. What's up?
female luke		Thank God.     I'm starving!
max		How ya' doin'?
janine		No.   She's just visiting.
keenan		She's Luke's cousin.
janine		Luca.
max		I always thought "Luca" was a guy's name? Italian or something.
luca		I'm part Italian.
max		Cool. I'm part Italian too. The important part.  Lei sono una bella donna. Amerei per mostrarlo il che inclinando torre di pisa.
luca		What's that mean?
max		You in town for a while?
janine		No, just a few weeks.
luca		'Weeks?!'
keenan		Days.
luca		I'm leaving today!    Now!
keenan		Is there anything you want me to tell Luke?
max		I'm way into hockey. I was hopin' Luke could show me the ropes. Is he as awesome as I've heard?
luca		Yeah.     He's alright.
max		Do you play?
luca		Uh, I don't know.
janine		She's gotta' pack.    You need to go.
max		Really nice meeting you.
janine		Are you okay?
luca		"Oh" what?     What do you mean, "oh?"
janine		 He's a hunk.
luca		I got to switch back.    Right now!
janine		What's the big deal?
luca		Get out of here!     Just GET OUT!
janine		Okay, okay.
keenan		What's goin' on?
janine		It's a girl thing.
keenan		Does he need any help in there?
janine		Not from you.
keenan		Finally.
janine		Alright, okay, now open those little levers on the sides,... and flip that center thingy back...
janine		No.
keenan		Janine wouldn't have one a' those.
janine		Please. And mine's got way more features than that one.  Or that one.
janine		It was Larissa's.    My roommate.
keenan		I'm just sayin', he's not that experienced with girls.
janine		Oh, and you are?
keenan		I'm startin' to wonder if you are?
janine		I'm not gonna' feed your fantasies.
luca		Don't call me that!
keenan		Babe, every time I look at you, I get the shivers! I just want to rip your clothes off, and throw you down...
janine		Oh, Keen!
keenan		I want to envelop every inch of you, that incredible curve along your side,...
janine		You're a screamer.
sydney		What are we doing here?
luke		Didn't want anyone around.   So, I did what you said.
sydney		Amazing, huh?
luke		Weird.   Awful.
sydney		Hmm. Was it difficult making the switch?
luke		No. It was hard gettin' back.      I need an owner's manual.
sydney		A lot of guys could use one of those.
luke		So, what now? Do I take pills or something?
sydney		No, it doesn't work like that. This may sound odd, but I need to know if you're attracted to me.
luke		What?    No.
sydney		Hmm.    You're not gay, are you?
luke		NO! Jeez! I'm just not attracted to you like that.
sydney		Okay, calm down. This could be a problem. Right now, you can go either way anytime you want. It's a very special and critical time for a Z, something you'll experience only once in life.
luke		Good.
sydney		You need to use this incredible opportunity you've been given, to figure out which you're supposed to be: male or female.
luke		What?
sydney		Don't you see? You get to choose.
luke		I don't want to choose.   I want to be a guy.
sydney		Yes, well, the thing is, sometimes your desires can conflict with your desires. It's important to know for sure.
luke		Believe me, I know.
sydney		I think you need to try again.
luke		No way!
sydney		Why're you so resistant? If the truth is, you want to be a guy, great, but if not...
luke		Don't even say that!
sydney		Well, clearly some part of you feels differently. You couldn't change if you didn't want to.
luke		What?!    That's crap!
sydney		That's the thing about the truth. It'll set you free, but first it can really piss you off.
luke		This is nuts! I'm supposed to be a guy!
sydney		Then what's the problem?   You are one.
luke		You're not gonna' help?!
sydney		I will, the moment you're ready to try again. You can come back to my place right now if you want.
luke		Forget it!
chad		Well, ain't we a basket a' biscuits?
jeremy		Yeah, Luke, what got into you today?
luke		The Force.
max		Hey.    Good game.
luke		Yeah.
max		I dropped by your place. Any chance you could give me a few pointers.
luke		Me?
max		You're awesome out there. And according to my sister, you walk on water.
luke		Oh.     Yeah?
max		You both have practically the same name?
luke		We were both named after our Uncle. Locasto.
max		Well, she's cool. Actually, she's hot. I was hopin' maybe you could hook me up.
luke		Huh?   No.    Not a chance.
max		Boyfriend?
luke		No! She just wouldn't be interested!
max		She a Lesbian?
luke		No! Of course not.     Jesus!   She's, -my cousin!
max		Yeah, okay. So? Michelle's my sister. You gonna' tell me you wouldn't like to do her?!
luke		FUCK YOU, man!
max		What is your deal?!
luke		You ASSHOLE!
max		Keep the fuck away from me!     And Michelle too!
luke		You can fuck off!
chad		What the hell's goin' on?!
keenan		 Luke's datin' his sister.
various guys		 Aaaah!
luke		Oh, you can all fuck off!
jeremy		This shirt? I've had it for years.
sydney		Well, it's very sexy. I love men's clothes. What else have you got in your closet?
jeremy		Polly, are you alright?   Didn't mean to walk in on you.
polly		Oh, hon. I'm fine, thanks. Love, tears. That's the trade-off.
sydney		My God, he's gorgeous.
polly		Yes, he's a Michelangelo. And the sweetest boy in the world. Sorry, darling, I'm afraid you'll find he's not your type.
sydney		Oh, we'll see about that.
polly		I think he may prefer men.
sydney		I certainly hope so.
janine		Is Luke alright?
sydney		He should have full control over this now. Something must be really confusing him. The only thing I can think of...
keenan		What?
sydney		When he became Luca, was he attracted to one of you? You can get really thrown by that. Janine?
janine		No.   Not me.
keenan		Well, he sure as hell wasn't attracted to me.
janine		No.   Definitely not.
sydney		Wasn't it just the two of you?
janine		Not exactly.
keenan		Oh, give me a break! No way! Max?! They just had a huge fight. He tried to beat the crap out of him!
janine		Exactly.   He was a girl.
keenan		Oh!   This is just wrong.
janine		Would you rather she was attracted to me?
keenan		Would you?!
janine		Maybe I would!
sydney		Whoa! HANG ON! Right now, Luke needs your help. He needs to know you're behind him, no matter what he wants.
janine		So, what's all this mean?
sydney		Bottom line? Maybe Luca really likes this boy, -enough to want to be female.
janine		 Don't sneer!
keenan		Oh, come on! I know the guy. We've done all kinds a' shit together: Hoops, hockey!
janine		Oh, and girls can't play sports?!
keenan		Oh, -whatever! Christ, Janine! Why the hell would he want to be a girl?!
janine		That's so hard to imagine?!
keenan		Uh, -YEAH!
sydney		HEY! LISTEN UP! I know what I'm talking about. You see this?
janine		Who's he?     An Ex?   ...Oh, my God.
sydney		Ex me.
keenan		You're one too? You're a Z? You're a guy?!
sydney		Was.   I made a terrible mistake.
keenan		You musta' worked out.
luke		What's this all about?
janine		It's just a little something we thought you might want.
luke		What the hell is this for?
keenan		 I told ya'. What a stupid ass idea!
janine		Keen! Don't! We just want you to know, whatever you decide, it's all right with us.
luke		Decide?! WHAT?! No, it's not! Get this thing away from me! JUDAS PRIEST!
keenan		Sorry, man. Think she wishes everyone was female.
janine		What's that s'posed to mean?
keenan		Oh, Christ, Janine! It means he doesn't want to be girl!   Like he'd have to think about THAT!
janine		There happen to be millions of us out there that like being female!
luke		Well, bully for YOU!
janine		NO! I want to know! Just exactly what's wrong with being a girl?!
luke		Nothin'! It's great!    It's fuckin' PHENOMENAL, if you happen to BE one!
janine		Maybe we should've had this conversation the other afternoon?!
luke		That wasn't my choice!
janine		I sure as hell didn't make you do it!
keenan		Janine, will you just let me talk to him for a sec'?
janine		Oh, what?! It's a 'GUY THING?!' Give me a fuckin' break!
keenan		Sorry, man. She talked me into it. You know Janine.
luke		Asshole!
keenan		 You should thank me.    The one she picked out was PINK!
michelle		Hi.
luke		Hey.     How are you?
michelle		I'm okay.     You?
luke		Okay.     You look really nice.
michelle		Thanks.    I was hopin' you might call.
luke		I was going to.
michelle		There's something I need to talk to you about. -But did I do something wrong?
luke		No. Nothin' like that. There's just some stuff I've got to sort out.
michelle		Like what?
luke		Me too. What did you want to talk to me about?
michelle		Nothing really.   So, heard you and Max really got into it?
luke		Yeah.   I kind a' lost it.
michelle		He knows how to push buttons, huh? What exactly did he say that got you so pissed off?
luke		I don't know. We'd just finished a game. I was all revved up.
michelle		He's actually a really nice guy.
luke		Not sure he's too crazy about me seein' his sister.
michelle		Did he scare you off?
luke		No, he doesn't "scare" me. What, his struttin' around, thinkin' he's such a bad ass, with his shirt hangin' open half the time?
michelle		It's just an act. He likes pretending he's Joe Cool. Always says you gotta' just be whatever you want, and fuck 'em if they can't take a joke.
luke		Well, he's a joke alright.
michelle		Look, I'm not sure this is gonna' work out.
luke		I'm sorry, I didn't mean-
michelle		No. I can't do this. I'm not sure you even know who you are. Much less who I am. Have you ever even had a girlfriend?
luke		What's that supposed to mean?!
michelle		Well, if you think my brother's such a "joke," how much better could you think of me? We're not that different, you know?
luke		You're totally different.    He's a guy, for one.
michelle		And he's my best friend. If you don't like him, you can't like me.
michelle		"I wanna know how to go To the inside of love. I can't find my way through."
max		"Must be a special view, Finding a me with a you, On the inside of love."
sydney		Oh, honey.     Come in.
luke		You're one too.    Why didn't you tell me?
sydney		I didn't want to confuse the issue.
luke		So, it's true what you said? You really know. I wouldn't change unless I wanted to?
sydney		Maybe some part of you.
luke		What part?    How much of me? I mean, for it to work? Half? More than half? What if it was only a tiny bit, -a thought?
sydney		I don't know. But I believe there may be thousands of Z's out there, millions for all we know, go their whole lives without even knowing they are one. Nothing ever happens. You couldn't keep it from happening.
luke		I love being with Michelle. How come I can't control it when she's around?
sydney		I think whatever part of yourself you deny, just gets bigger and bigger until it takes you over.
luke		You think I don't really want to be a man.
sydney		I think for some, making it stop is more important than knowing who you are. It was for me.
luke		Maybe for me too.
sydney		Right now, you're Morphescent. The key is to have sex with another Z. You become Adulmorphic. Your gender locks. You can't just change anytime you want.
luke		Another Z?
sydney		That's why I came all the way out here.
luke		And why you keep tryin' to get me in the sack?
sydney		Thought maybe I could save you some distress. But you say you're not attracted to me. For it to work, both of us have to be into it.
luke		That won't be a problem.
sydney		Okay then.
luke		Tonight.
sydney		Not right now? Okay.   Tonight.
luke		Remember that Christmas when Keen and me accidentally set the Scofields' house on fire?
69.		LUKE  I feel like if I let this thing in, it's all over. But I don't know what else to do. Guess you can't figure out who you are, until you accept who you might be.
max		You're about the last person I expected to see.
luca		I can show you a few moves if you want?
max		Yeah?   What the hell.
luca		Not bad.
max		You're better than Luke.
luca		I taught him everything he knows.
max		I thought you left town?
luca		Had to come back.
max		Good.
luca		Where'd you learn to speak Italian?
max		Just tourist stuff. "I'll have the spaghetti bolognese." "How much for a room?"
luca		Have you been?
max		Little Italy. In New York. Someday, though. Want to go with me?
luca		Look, this was a mistake.
max		Yeah.   Of course.   I know.
luca		Oh, Jesus...
max		Are you and he...?
luca		Huh?
max		It's really none of my business.
luca		No! I'm sorry.    I shouldn't've come here.
max		Please don't say you're "just visiting." That you "need to leave." I'm the one who needs to leave.
keenan		I mean, what the FUCK is goin' on?! You do wanna' be a girl? You're into guys now?
luke		No! I don't know exactly.    I don't know.
keenan		What about Michelle?
luke		I had to be sure. I am now. Come on, it's sort of a Catch-22. I make out with a girl, I start turning into one. You gotta' admit, it's a little weird, isn't it?
keenan		Why don't you go see her?   Think you're more her type.
luke		"See me around?"
keenan		Look, I'm gonna' find my own place, okay?   This is gettin' too fuckin' weird for me.
luke		I'm goin' to Dr. Catchadourian's tonight. To make this stop.
keenan		I don't care. I've had it with all this crap. I mean, you gonna' start hittin' on me next?
luke		Yeah, that's right Keenan, you and me: let's do it.
luke		I guess I really did need to face it head on in order to see.
sydney		It was courageous.
luke		Girls, are just, I don't know. It's a different energy. They're soft and warm, they can make a guy feel complete.
sydney		And multiple o's. Actually, male Z's have multiple o's too. Been so long I nearly forgot.
luke		Cool.
sydney		Okay, to be honest, I'm relieved you sorted this out. My conscience would have bothered me for decades if we'd just gone ahead without you being certain.
luke		To manhood!
sydney		We just do it. And, ...it just happens.
sydney		Do you like this dress?
luke		Sure. Looks great on you. Man, dresses! Even without everything else, dresses are reason enough right there to stay a guy.
sydney		"Stay a guy?"   Let me get this straight. You didn't decide to be a woman?
luke		No.   Of course not.   What?
sydney		Just testing you. Hold on a moment. There's something I forgot...
luke		What's that for?
sydney		You've never done it with another Z. Trust me, you need to be tied down.
luke		Does it hurt?
sydney		On the contrary.
male sydney		 Now, you look me in the eye, and tell me that wasn't the best sex you ever had.
keenan		What's goin' on? Where is she?
luca		Janine said he's definitely there.
keenan		Did she mention me?
luca		Yes!
keenan		'Cause it really is totally cool either way.
luca		I'm SURE.
keenan		Okay, I just don't want you to think I'm zerophobic, or somethin'.
male sydney		You're on the wrestling team.
jeremy		Yeah.   You catch the meets?
male sydney		Just an educated guess.    Wanna' wrestle?
luca		Can't this thing go any faster?!
keenan		Huh?
luca		I mean, if I weren't a hundred percent sure which I'm s'posed to be. If you had to say.
keenan		All I know is, every time you look at Michelle, or think about her, you smile. What the hell else do you need to know?
luca		It's not right. She deserves to be with a normal guy.
keenan		So, you don't get to be with anyone?
luca		She's not gonna' want some guy who thinks maybe he's supposed to be a girl sometimes.
keenan		How do you know? Did you ask?
luca		No way I'm gonna' ask her that.
keenan		Well, you have to.   Where are your nads, man?!
male sydney		Come on, let's grab a couple beers.
luca		Let's go!
keenan		Jeez.    She won't even look at me.
male sydney		I do love to mess with Texas.
luca		There!
male sydney		We better get outta' here.
jeremy		Keenan?!    It's not the way it looks.
keenan		Oh, Jeremy, I so profoundly don't care if you're queer. Trust me, around here, that's nothin'!
luca		You son-of-a-bitch!       We're doin' it again, right now!
jeremy		Jeez.   She your wife?!
male sydney		No!  She just said, she wants sex!  I can't. I'm sorry.
luca		"Sorry?!"     Fuck you!    FUCK ME! NOW!
male sydney		It won't work.
luca		We're goin' inside right here!
male sydney		I'll scream rape.
luca		So will I.
male sydney		But I'm gay!
luca		So what?
male sydney		We both need to be into it, or nothing happens.
keenan		Such bullshit.
male sydney		That's why I became a woman in the first place. I couldn't handle it. Figured if I was female, it was okay to like guys.
keenan		She's lyin'.
luca		You're tellin' me, 'cause you're straight as a girl and I'm straight as a guy, we can screw and switch, but...
male sydney		'cause you're straight as a girl, and I'm gay as a guy, even if we do it...
luca		I'm just screwed.
keenan		Jeez. You need trigonometry to figure this thing out. Maybe you're 'bi.'
male sydney		In my world the Kinsey scale's three-dimensional, but trust me, girls do nothing for me. Zilch!  You, on the other hand...
luca		What am I gonna' do?
keenan		What if he's lying?    I say, do him again anyway!
luca		Fine!
male sydney		Fine.   Waste of time.
luca		Michelle.
keenan		Oh, man.
luca		It's not what you think.
keenan		What does she think?
luca		I'm not sure.
michelle		You asshole!
michelle		I don't believe this.    You slept with that guy?!
luca		It's not what you think.
michelle		Oh, please! What about Max?
luca		What about him?
michelle		Don't you care about him at all?!
luca		Not like that: I'm straight!   I'm attracted to you!
michelle		Oh, who cares, you idiot! And sorry to break it to you, but I'm straight too.
luca		No. This'll sound crazy, but I'm not who you think I am-
michelle		Oh, Christ, Luke, -Luca: I know who you are!
luca		You know I'm a Zerophiliac?!
michelle		Yes! So you can just go fuck yourself. -Literally!
luca		Does Max know who I am?
michelle		What if he does? Do you?
luca		He's a guy!
michelle		And you're a girl!
luca		I'm not!
michelle		There's no supposed to be anything, you just ARE!
luca		Is that what you think?!   NO!
michelle		Well, then congratulations! You're a guy, just like every other guy I ever met! I can't believe you slept with him!
luca		He was a woman! I was tricked.   I didn't know I'd switch.
michelle		You're gonna' tell me he's a Z too?! Both of you?!
luca		Yes!
michelle		Well, that's just perfect. What, is there something in the water around here?!
luca		She told me it would make it stop. That it would keep me from turning into a girl.
michelle		So what?! Why's that so important to you?! There's no way this was gonna' work.
luca		Because I'm a Zerophiliac.
michelle		Because you can't stand being one! Bye, Luca.
luca		 Luke.
keenan		The best part's just lyin' there after. Really close, really far away.
janine		Like goin' to the moon, maybe.
keenan		Yeah. ...They should open a pizza joint up there.
luca		What am I gonna' do?
keenan		Maybe being a woman'll turn out okay. Like being an elevated member of the male species.
janine		Elevated "member?"
keenan		I just mean, maybe he'll learn to like it.
janine		 As hard as that is to conceive!
luca		Shut up! Both of you! What, you want a written guarantee? You're so damn lucky! You're into him, he's into you. Super-glue! What the hell else do you need to know?
keenan		I think you're the female half of me.
janine		I think you're the macho half of me.
luca		And I don't know what half of who the hell I am.
janine		What are you gonna' do?
luca		I don't know. I prefer being a guy, but I'm a girl? I'm attracted to Max, but I'm in love with Michelle? It's like I'm s'posed to be both.
polly		Girl trouble? Boy trouble?
max		What's the point? It never works out. Or they just cheat on you anyway.
polly		Liverpool was a veritable shagfest when I was your age. A boulevard of broken hearts. But eventually, I found him.
max		Sorry.
polly		Everything reminded me of him. So, I came here, half way round the world to forget. Then created this place, just like the one where we met.
max		He can't handle this. Us.   He can't handle who he is.
polly		You being a guy too?
max		Or him being a girl.
polly		Everyone's terrified. But once you really know someone, and they know you, it makes you whole.
max		No one wants to know who I really am.
polly		You're so sure?
max		It's impossible. He was the one person I thought could understand. But no, it's impossible.
polly		It's worth finding out.
luca		Hey.
max		Hey.
luca		I know she doesn't want to talk to me. But do you know where I can find her?
max		New York.     Left two days ago.
luca		Oh, man.    ...You're staying?
max		Just 'til Friday.
luca		I wanted to apologize to her. Forget it, I don't know,... Obviously, nothing's gonna' ever be with me and her, but I just wish she knew how much I, -and that I wasn't cheating, I was just trying to be a man for her.  She'd have a field day with that one, huh?
max		True.
luca		If you talk to her, please just tell her, I'm sorry, and I wish her the best,... everything.
max		Thanks.
luca		I'm sorry.     To you too.
max		For what?
luca		Mixed signals, I guess.
max		Ow!   Son-of-a-bitch!
luca		You all right?
max		Stepped on a nail.    Damn it!
luca		I wish.
max		You definitely had me confused.
luca		For whatever it's worth.     I think you're a pretty hot guy.
max		Thanks.   But you're not interested?
luca		Truth is, I am. And I guess it sounds crazy, but I couldn't do that to Michelle.
max		For whatever it's worth, I think you're pretty hot too.
luca		Thanks.
max		Too bad you're a moron.
luca		Excuse me?
max		I have incontrovertible proof.
luke		Hey you.    ...Good morning.   What's up?
michelle		And leave me stuck.
luke		What do you want, a gender pre-nup?
michelle		Maybe.   I have to go to work.
luke		Only place I'm going is back to sleep.
michelle		No. I can't show up at work like this.
luke		Oh, yeah.
****Dialogues from script :Zootopia.txt****

story by		Byron Howard, Rich Moore, Jared Bush, Jim Reardon, Josie Trinidad, Phil Johnston and Jennifer Lee
young judy		Blood, blood, blood!
astronaut sheep		Yeah, I don't have to cower in a herd anymore.
actuary jaguar		I don't have to be a lonely hunter any more.
actuary		Today I can hunt for tax exemptions. I'm gonna be an actuary!
young judy		And I can make the world a better place! I am going to be...
gideon grey		Bunny cop. That is the most stupidest thing I ever heard.
young judy		It may seem impossible to small minds--  I'm looking at you Gideon Grey.
stu hopps		Judy, you ever wonder how your mom and me got to be so darn happy?
young judy		Nope.
stu hopps		Well, we gave up on our dreams and we settled, right Bon?
bonnie hopps		Oh yes, that's right, Stu. We settled hard.
stu hopps		See, that's the beauty of complacency, Jude. If you don't try anything new, you'll never fail.
young judy		I like trying, actually.
bonnie hopps		What your father means, hon, is it's gonna be difficult-- impossible even-- for you to become a police officer.
stu hopps		Right. There's never been a bunny cop.
bonnie hopps		No.
stu hopps		Bunnies don't do that.
bonnie hopps		Never.
stu hopps		Never.
young judy		Oh. Then I guess I'll have to be the first one. Because I am gonna make the world...  A better place!
stu hopps		OR... um, heck, you wanna talk about making the world a better place--
bonnie hopps		Yes! Your dad, me, your 275 brothers and sisters-- we're changing the world.
stu hopps		Yep.
bonnie hopps		One carrot at a time...
stu hopps		Amen to that. Carrot farming is a noble profession.
bonnie hopps		You get it. I mean, it's great to have dreams.
stu hopps		Yeah, just as long as you don't believe in em too much.  Where in the heck'd she go?
gideon grey		Gimme your tickets right now, or I'm gonna kick your meek little sheep butt.
sharla		Ow! Cut it out, Gideon!
gideon grey		Baa-baa. What're ya gonna do, cry?
gideon grey		Nice costume, loser. What crazy world are you living in where you think a bunny could be a cop?
young judy		Kindly return my friends' tickets.
gideon grey		Come and get `em.... But watch out, `cause I'm a fox-- and like you said in your dumb little stage play, us predators used to eat prey. And that killer instinct's still in our Dunnahh.
gideon grey		Don't tell me what I know, Travis.
young judy		You don't scare me, Gideon.
gideon grey		You scared now?
gideon grey		Cry little baby bunny. Cry, cry --
sharla		Are you okay, Judy?
young judy		Yeah... Yeah, I'm okay.
sharla		Wow! You got our tickets!
sharla		Yeah! That Gideon Grey doesn't know what he's talkin' `bout.
young judy		Well, he was right about one thing...
major friedkin		Listen up Cadets! Zootopia has 12 unique ecosystems within its city limits-- Tundra Town, Sahara Square, Rainforest District, to name a few. You're gonna have to master all of them before you hit the streets-- or guess what?  You'll be dead!
lionheart		As Mayor of Zootopia, I am proud to announce that my Mammal Inclusion Initiative has produced its first police academy graduate.
bellwether		Oh! Yes right.
lionheart		Thank you.
bellwether		Congratulations, Officer Hopps.
judy		I won't let you down. This has been my dream since I was a kid.
bellwether		Ya know, it's a... It's a real proud day for us little guys.
lionheart		Bellwether, make room will ya? Come on.
bonnie hopps		We're real proud of you, Judy.
stu hopps		Yeah. Scared, too.
bonnie hopps		Yes.
stu hopps		Really, it's kind of a proud-scared combo. I mean, Zootopia. It's so far a away... It's such a big city.
judy		Guys-- I've been working for this my whole life.
bonnie hopps		We know. And we're just a little excited for you, but terrified.
judy		The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
stu hopps		And also bears. We have bears to fear, too. To say nothing of lions, and wolves...
bonnie hopps		Wolves?
stu hopps		...weasels...
bonnie hopps		You play cribbage with a weasel.
stu hopps		And he cheats like there's no tomorrow. You know what, pretty much all predators-- and Zootopia's full of `em.
bonnie hopps		 Oh, Stu.
stu hopps		And foxes are the worst.
bonnie hopps		 Actually, your father does have a point there. It's in their biology. Remember what happened with Gideon Grey.
judy		When I was 9. Gideon Grey was a jerk, who happened to be a fox. I know plenty of bunnies who are jerks.
stu hopps		Sure. Yeah, we all do. Absolutely. But just in case, we made you a little care package to take with you.
bonnie hopps		And I put some snacks in there.
stu hopps		This is fox deterrent.
bonnie hopps		Yeah that's safe to have there.
stu hopps		This is fox repellent...
bonnie hopps		Okay, the deterrent and the repellent. That's all she needs.
stu hopps		Check this out!
bonnie hopps		Oh for goodness sake. She has no need for a fox taser, Stu.
stu hopps		Oh c'mon. When is there not a need for a fox taser?
judy		Okay, look-- I will take this to make you stop talking.
stu hopps		Terrific! Everyone wins!
train conductor		Arriving-- Zootopia Express!
judy		OK. Gotta go. Bye!
bonnie hopps		Love you, too!
stu hopps		Oh cripes, here come the waterworks.
bonnie hopps		Oh Stu, pull it together.
judy		Bye everybody!
cotton		Bye, Judy! I love you!
judy		Bye!
gazelle		I am Gazelle. Welcome to Zootopia!
dharma armadillo		And welcome to the Grand Pangolin Arms. "Luxury Apartments with Charm."
hopps		Thank you!
kudu pootosser		Yeah? Well we're loud.
oryx pootosser		Don't expect us to apologize for it.
hopps		Greasy walls... rickety bed...
hopps		Crazy neighbors...  I love it!
leopard		C'mon! He bared his teeth first.
clawhauser		O-M goodness! They really did hire a bunny. What?! 
hopps		 Ooo, uh, you probably didn't know, but a bunny can call another bunny "cute," but when other animals do it, it's a little...
clawhauser		 I am so sorry. Me, Benjamin Clawhauser, the guy everyone thinks is just a flabby, donut-loving cop, stereotyping you...?
hopps		It's okay-- oh, you've actually you've actually got a-- there's a-- in your neck-- the fold-- the-- there's--
clawhauser		Oh, there you went, you little dickens!
hopps		 I should get to roll call, so... which way do I?
clawhauser		Oh! Bullpen's over there to the left.
hopps		Great, thank you!
clawhauser		 Aw... That poor little bunny's gonna get eaten alive.
hopps		Hey. Officer Hopps. You ready to make the world a better place?
bogo		All right, all right. Everybody sit.
hopps		Parking duty?  Uh, Chief? Chief Bogo?
bogo		So.
hopps		So I can handle one. You probably forgot, but I was top of my class at the academy.
bogo		Didn't forget. Just don't care.
hopps		Sir, I'm not just some "token" bunny.
bogo		Well, then writing a hundred tickets a day should be easy.
hopps		100 tickets...? I'm not gonna write 100 tickets... I'm gonna write 200 tickets! 
hopps		Boom! 200 tickets before noon.
hopps		 Where'd he go...
nick		I'm not looking for any trouble either, sir. I simply want to buy a Jumbo Pop for my little boy.
hopps		 I'm such a...
nick		Uh, no no, there are. There are. It's just, my boy--  --this goofy little stinker-- he loves all things elephant. Wants to be one when he grows up.
elephant		You're holding up the line.
hopps		Actually...  I'm an officer. Just had a quick question. Are your customers aware they're getting snot and mucous with their cookies and cream?
hopps		Well, I don't wanna cause you any trouble, but I believe scooping ice cream with an un-gloved trunk is a Class 3 Health Code Violation...
nick		A Jumbo Pop. Please.
hopps		A Jumbo Pop.
nick		Thank you so much.  Thanks, anyway.
hopps		Keep the change.
nick		Officer, I can't thank you enough. So kind, really, can I pay you back?
hopps		Oh no, my treat-- it just-- y'know, it burns me up to see folks with such backward attitudes toward foxes. I just wanna say, you're a great dad and just a... a real articulate fella.
nick		Ah, well, that is high praise. It's rare that I find someone so non- patronizing... Officer...
hopps		 Hopps. Mr...
nick		Wilde. Nick Wilde.
hopps		 And you little guy, you want to be an elephant when you grow up... you be an elephant-- because this is Zootopia, anyone can be anything.
nick		Ah, boy, I tell him that all the time. All right here ya go--  Two paws. Yeah. Oh, look at that smile, that's a happy birthday smile! All right, give her a little bye-bye toot toot.
hopps		Toot, toot!
nick		Bye now!
hopps		Goodbye!
hopps		Oh! Hey, little toot toot--
nick		Pawpsicles! Get your pawpsicles!
nick		Lumber delivery!
nick		The color? Uh... It's redwood.
nick		39...40. There you go. Way to work that diaper, big guy. Hey, no kiss bye-bye for daddy?
finnick		 You kiss me tomorrow, I'll bite your face off. Ciao.
hopps		Well. I stood up for you, and you lied to me. You liar!
nick		It's called a hustle, sweetheart. And I'm not the liar, he is.
hopps		Hey!
nick		Really, for what?
hopps		Gee I don't know, how `bout selling food without a permit, transporting undeclared commerce across borough lines, false advertising...
nick		Permit. Receipt of declared commerce. And I didn't falsely advertise anything. Take care.
hopps		You told that mouse the popsicle sticks were redwood!
nick		That's right. "Red wood." With a space in the middle. Wood that is red.  You can't touch me, Carrots, I been doing this since I was born.
hopps		You're gonna wanna refrain from calling me Carrots...
nick		My bad. I just naturally assumed you came from some little carrot- choked podunk, no?
hopps		 Ah, no. Podunk is in Deerbrooke County, and I grew up in Bunnyburrow.
nick		Okay. Tell me if this story sounds familiar:  Nave little hick with good grades and big ideas decides, "Hey lookit me, I'm gonna move to Zootopia-- where Predators and Prey live in harmony and sing Kumbaya!" Only to find-- whoopsie, we don't all get along. And that dream of becoming a big city cop? Double whoopsie! She's a meter maid. And whoopsie number threesie-- NO ONE cares about her or her dreams. And soon enough those dreams die and our bunny sinks into emotional and literal squalor living in a box under a bridge. Til finally she has no choice but to go back home with that cute, fuzzy wuzzy little tail between her legs to become-- you're from Bunnyburrow, is that what you said?-- so how `bout a carrot farmer... That sound about right?
hopps		 Hey! Hey! No one tells me what I can or can't be! Especially not some jerk who never had the guts to try to be anything more than a popsicle hustler!
nick		Alright look, everyone comes to Zootopia thinking they can be anything they want. Well you can't. You can only be what you are. 
hopps		I am NOT a dumb bunny.
nick		Right. And that's not wet cement.
hopps		Oh hey, it's my parents!
bonnie hopps		Aw there she is! Hi sweetheart!
stu hopps		Hey there, Jude the Dude! How was your first day on the force?
hopps		It was real great.
bonnie hopps		Yeah? Everything you ever hoped?
hopps		Mmm. Absolutely. And more. Everyone's so nice. And I feel like I'm really making a difference--
stu hopps		 Hey, wait a second. Holy cripes, Bonnie! Look at that!
bonnie hopps		 Oh my sweet heaven-- Judy, are you a meter maid?
hopps		 Oh this? No! Oh, no no! This is just a temporary thing--
bonnie hopps		It's the safest job on the force!
stu hopps		Ah, she's not a real cop! Our prayers have been answered!
bonnie hopps		Glorious day!
stu hopps		Meter maid, meter maid!
hopps		Dad! Dad--
stu hopps		Meter maid, meter maid!
hopps		DAD! You know what-- it's been a really long day, I should really--
bonnie hopps		That's right. You get some rest!
stu hopps		Those meters aren't gonna maid themselves.
bonnie hopps		Bye bye!
hopps		 Buh-bye.
hopps		 Tomorrow's another day...
moose		I was 30 seconds over!
hippo child		My mommy says she wishes you were dead.
hopps		 I am a real cop. I am a real cop. I am a real cop. I am a real cop...
hopps		 Sir, if you have a grievance, you may contest your citation in traffic court.
frantic pig		What're you talking about? My shop! It was just robbed! Look, he's getting away! Well are you a cop or not?
hopps		 Oh, yes! Yes! Don't worry, sir, I got this!
hopps		Stop! Stop in the name of the law!
duke weaselton		Catch me if you can, Cottontail!
mchorn		This is Officer McHorn, we got a 10-
hopps		I got dibs! Officer Hopps, I am in pursuit!
mchorn		 Hey! Metermaid! Wait for the real cops!
hopps		Stop!
duke weaselton		Bon voyage, flat foot!
hopps		Hey! Stop right there!
duke weaselton		Have a donut, coppah!
hopps		I love your hair.
duke weaselton		Come to papa...
clawhauser		Okay, you're gonna have to be patient and wait in line just like everyone else, Mrs. Otterton, okay?
hopps		I popped the weasel!
bogo		HOPPS!
bogo		Abandoning your post, inciting a scurry, reckless endangerment of rodents... but to be fair, you did stop a master criminal from stealing two dozen... moldy onions.
hopps		Hate to disagree with you, sir, but those aren't onions. Those are a crocus varietal called Midnicampum Holicithias. They're a Class C Botanical, sir. I grew up in a family where plant husbandry was kind of a thing.
bogo		Shut your tiny mouth, now.
hopps		Sir, I got the bad guy. That's my job.
bogo		Your job is putting tickets on parked cars.
bogo		Not now.
bogo		Not now!
hopps		Sir, I don't want to be a meter maid... I wanna be a real cop.
bogo		Do you think the Mayor asked what I wanted when he assigned you to me?
hopps		But sir, if you--
bogo		Life isn't some cartoon musical where you sing a little song and your insipid dreams magically come true. So let it go!
clawhauser		I'm sorry, sir, I tried to stop her, she is super slippery. I gotta go sit down.
bogo		Ma'am, as I've told you, we are doing everything we can...
bogo		Yes, I know.
bogo		Ma'am, our detectives are very busy.
bogo		Mrs. Otterton--
bogo		Mrs. Otterton? Please wait out here.
bogo		One second.
hopps		What? Why?!
bogo		Insubordination. Now, I'm going to open this door and you're going to tell that otter you're a former meter maid with delusions of grandeur who will not be taking the case.
bellwether		I just heard Officer Hopps is taking the case!
bogo		Assistant Mayor Bellwether...
bellwether		 The Mammal Inclusion Initiative is really starting to pay off! Mayor Lionheart is just gonna be so jazzed!
bogo		No! No, let's not tell the mayor just yet--
bellwether		And I sent it, and it is done, so I did do that. All right, well I'd say the case is in good hands! Us little guys really need to stick together! Right?
hopps		Like glue!
bellwether		 Good one! Just call me if you ever need anything, okay? You've always got a friend at City Hall, Judy. Alright, bye bye!
hopps		Thank you, ma'am.
bogo		I will give you 48 hours.
hopps		YES!
bogo		That's two days to find Emmitt Otterton.
hopps		Okay.
bogo		But, you strike out-- you resign.
hopps		Oh, uh... okay... deal.
bogo		Splendid. Clawhauser will give you the complete case file.
clawhauser		Here ya go! One missing otter!
hopps		That's it?!
clawhauser		Yikes! That is the smallest case file I've ever seen! Leads: none, witnesses: none-- and you're not in the computer system yet, so resources: none.  I hope you didn't stake your career on cracking this one.
hopps		Okay.  "Last known sighting..."
clawhauser		The murder weapon!
hopps		Get your pawpsicle...
clawhauser		Yeah, `cause that... What does that mean?
hopps		It means I... have a lead.
hopps		Hi! Hello? It's me again!
nick		Hey, it's Officer Toot Toot.
hopps		 Ha-ha-ho, no actually it's Officer Hopps, and I'm here to ask you some questions about a case.
nick		What happened, meter maid? Did someone steal a traffic cone? It wasn't me.
hopps		This is important, sir. I think your ten dollars worth of popsicles can wait.
nick		I make 200 bucks a day, fluff. 365 days a year, since I was 12, and time is money, hop along.
hopps		Please, just look at the picture.
nick		I know everybody. And I also know that somewhere there's a toy store missing its stuffed animal, so why don't you get back to your box.
hopps		Fine. Then we'll have to do this the hard way.
nick		Did you just boot my stroller?
hopps		Nicholas Wilde, you are under arrest.
nick		For what? Howting your feewings?
hopps		Felony tax evasion.
nick		Well, it's my word against yours.
hopps		Actually, it's your word against yours. And if you want this pen, you're going to help me find this poor missing otter or the only place you'll be selling popsicles is the prison cafeteria.  It's called a hustle, sweetheart.
finnick		She hustled you.  She hustled you good! You're a cop now Nick, you're gonna need one of these! Have fun working with the fuzz!
hopps		Start talking.
nick		I don't know where he is. I only saw where he went.
hopps		Great, let's go.
nick		It's not exactly a place for a cute little bunny.
hopps		Don't call me cute.  Get in the car.
nick		Okay. You're the boss.
hopps		Hi, hello.
hopps		Uh, no... I'm Officer Hopps, ZPD. I'm looking for a missing mammal, Emmitt Otterton. Right here--  --who may have frequented this establishment.
hopps		Oh, thank you so much, I'd appreciate that more than you can imagine. It would be such a big--  You are naked!
nick		Yeah, in Zootopia anyone can be anything. These guys... they be naked.
nick		Does this make you uncomfortable? Because, if so, there's no shame in calling it quits.
hopps		Yes there is.
nick		Boy, that's the spirit.
nangi		Who?
yax		Uh, Emmitt Otterton? Been coming to your yoga class for like 6 years?
nangi		I have no memory of this beaver.
judy		He's an otter actually.
yax		He was here a couple Wednesdays ago. `Member?
nangi		Nope.
yax		Yeah, he was wearing a green cable- knit sweater vest, and new pair of corduroy slacks. Oh, and a paisley tie. Sweet Windsor knot. Real tight. Remember that Nangi?
nangi		No.
yax		Yeah, and we both walked him out and he got into this big ol' white car with a silver trim? Needed a tune up. The third cylinder wasn't firing. `Member that, Nangi?
nangi		Nope.
hopps		You didn't happen to catch the license plate number, did you?
hopps		0, 3... Wow, this is a lot of great info, thank you.
yax		Told ya Nangi has a mind like a steel trap. I wish I had a memory like an elephant.
nick		Well, I had a ball. You are welcome for the clue. And seeing as how any moron can run a plate, I will take that pen and bid you adieu.
hopps		The plate... I can't run a plate...  I'm not in the system yet.
nick		Give me the pen please.
hopps		 What was it you said? "Any moron can run a plate?" Gosh... if only there were a moron around who were up to the task...
nick		Rabbit, I did what you asked, you can't keep me on the hook forever.
hopps		Not forever. Why, I only have 36 hours left to solve this case. So can you run the plate or not?
nick		Actually, I just remembered I have a pal at the DMV...
nick		Flash is the fastest guy in there, you need something done, he's on it.
hopps		I hope so, we are really fighting the clock and every minute counts.  Wait. They're all sloths?!
nick		 What? Are you saying that because he's a sloth, he can't be fast? I thought in Zootopia anyone could be anything.
flash		Nice to...  too.
nick		Hey Flash, I'd love ya to meet my friend-- uh, darlin' I've forgotten your name.
hopps		 How are ya?
flash		I am... doing... just...
hopps		Fine?
flash		...as well... as... I can... be. What...
nick		 Hang in there.
flash		...can I... do...
hopps		Well, I was hoping you could run a plate--
flash		For you...
hopps		Well, I was hoping you could--
flash		...today.
hopps		Well, I was hoping you could run a plate for us. We are in a really big hurry.
flash		Sure.    What's the... plate...
hopps		2, 9, T--
flash		...Number?
flash		T.
flash		H.
flash		D.
hopps		3!
nick		Hey Flash, wanna hear a joke?
hopps		No!
flash		Sure.
nick		What do you call a three humped camel?
flash		I don't... know...  What... do... you call... a...
hopps		Three humped camel.
flash		Three humped... camel?
nick		Pregnant.
flash		Ha... ha... ha... ha...
hopps		Ha, ha, yes very funny, very funny, can we please just focus on the task--
flash		Hey... Priscilla...
hopps		Oh no!
priscilla		Yes... Flash?
flash		What... do...
hopps		No!
flash		You call... a...
hopps		A three humped camel? Pregnant! Okay, great, we got it, please just- -
flash		Three... humped...
hopps		Aggggggghhhhhhh--
flash		Here...
hopps		Yeah, yeah, yeah... thank you!
flash		You... go.
hopps		 29THD03-- it's registered to... Tundratown Limo Service? A limo took Otterton, and the limo's in Tundratown-- it's in Tundratown!
nick		Way to hustle, bud. I love ya. I owe ya.
hopps		Hurry, we gotta beat the rush hour and--
hopps		IT'S NIGHT?!
hopps		Closed. Great.
nick		Mm. And I will betcha you don't have a warrant to get in. Hm? Darn it. It's a bummer.
hopps		You wasted the day on purpose.
nick		Madam, I have a fake badge. I would never impede your pretend investigation.
hopps		It's not a pretend investigation! Look, see--  See him? This otter is missing.
nick		Well then they should have gotten a real cop to find him.
hopps		What is your problem? Does seeing me fail somehow make you feel better about your own sad, miserable life?
nick		It does. One hundred percent.  Now... since you're sans warrant, I guess we're done?
hopps		Fine. We are done. Here's your pen.
nick		Hey! 
hopps		The thing is, you don't need a warrant if you have probable cause, and I'm pretty sure I saw a shifty low-life climbing the fence, so you're helping plenty. Come on.
hopps		Polar bear fur.
nick		 OH MY GOD!
hopps		What? What?!
nick		The Velvety Pipes of Jerry Vole! But on CD? Who still uses CDs?
hopps		Those are... claw marks. You ever seen anything like this?
nick		No.
hopps		Oh, wait. Look.
nick		Well, now wait a minute...  I know whose car this is. We gotta go!
hopps		Why? Whose car is it?
nick		The most feared crime boss in Tundratown. They call him Mr. Big and he does not like me, so we gotta go!
hopps		I'm not leaving, this is a crime scene.
nick		Well, it's gonna be an even bigger crime scene if Mr. Big finds me here, so we're leaving right now!  Nick ushers Hopps to the door, but opens it to find two big POLAR BEARS.  NICK  That's a no.  ...and yank them off screen.
hopps		What did you do that made Mr. Big so mad at you?
nick		 I uh, I may have sold him a very expensive wool rug... that was made from the fur of a... skunk's butt.
hopps		 Oh, sweet cheese and crackers.
hopps		 Is that Mr. Big?
nick		 No.
hopps		What about him? Is that him?
nick		 No.
hopps		That's gotta be him.
nick		Stop talking stop talking stop talking--
nick		Well actually we were brought here against our will, so...  Point is, I did not know it was your car, and I certainly did not know about your daughter's wedding.
hopps		Sir, I am a c--
nick		Mime! She is a mime. This mime, cannot speak. You can't speak if you're a mime.
hopps		No. I am a cop. And I'm on the Emmitt Otterton case, and my evidence puts him in your car, so intimidate me all you want, I'm going to find out what you did to that otter if it's the last thing I do.
nick		Whoa-- I didn't see nothing-- I'm not saying nothing--
nick		Please! No no no! If you're mad at me about the rug I've got more rugs!
hopps		Hi.  I love your dress.
hopps		Because he was attacked.
hopps		Otterton?
hopps		He's a sweet little otter.
hopps		Mr. Manchas? Judy Hopps, ZPD. We just want to know what happened to Emmitt Otterton.
nick		Whoa. A teensy otter... did that?
hopps		What... happened?
manchas		 There was no warning, he just kept yelling about the "night howlers." Over and over, "the night howlers..."
nick		Oh. So you know about the night howlers too? Good, good, good. Because the night howlers are exactly what we are here to talk about.  Right?
hopps		Yep. So, uh, you just open the door and tell us what you know and we will tell you what we know. Okay?
manchas		 Okay.
hopps		Clever fox.
nick		Buddy?
hopps		Are you... okay?
nick		What is wrong with him?!
hopps		I don't know!!  Nick and Hopps run across the bridge. Manchas closes in.  HOPPS  Officer Hopps to dispatch!
clawhauser		Are you familiar with Gazelle? Greatest singer of our lifetime-- angel with horns-- okay, hold on, keep watching. Who's that beside her? Who is it?
clawhauser		 Hold on a second--
hopps		Clawhauser, listen to me! We have a 10-91! Jaguar gone savage! Vine and Tu-junja!
nick		It's Tujunga!
hopps		There! Head to the skytrams!
nick		Get in! Carrots? Carrots!
hopps		Go!
nick		No, no, no!
hopps		I'm gonna let go!
nick		No, you what? No, I said-- listen-- noooo!
hopps		One, two--
nick		Carrots. You saved my life.
hopps		Well. That's what we do at the ZP...  Deeeeeeeeeeeee.....
bogo		Well, this should be good.
hopps		I thought this was just a missing mammal case, but it's way bigger. 
bogo		 Savage? This isn't the Stone Age, Hopps. Animals don't go savage.
hopps		I thought so too, `til I saw this:
bogo		 The "savage" jaguar.
hopps		Sir, I know what I saw-- he almost killed us.
bogo		Or maybe any aggressive predator looks savage to you rabbits.  Let's go.
hopps		Wait-- Sir, I'm not the only one who saw him!  Nick!
bogo		 You think I'm going to believe a fox?
hopps		Well he was a key witness and I enlisted--
hopps		But, Sir, we...
bogo		Badge.
bogo		What did you say, fox?
nick		Sorry, what I said was, "no." She will not be giving you that badge. Look, you gave her a clown vest and a three-wheel joke-mobile and two days to solve a case you guys haven't cracked in two weeks? Yeah, no wonder she needed to get help from a fox, none of you guys were gonna help her, were you?
hopps		Thank you.
nick		Never let `em see that they get to you.
hopps		So, things do get to you...
nick		No... I mean, not anymore. But I was small and emotionally unbalanced like you once.
hopps		Har-har.
nick		 No, it's true. I think was 8, or maybe 9, and all I wanted to do was join the Junior Ranger Scouts.
young nick		Yeah! Pretty much born ready.
young nick		I, Nicholas Wilde, promise to be brave, loyal, helpful, and trustworthy.
young nick		What?
nick		I learned two things that day. One, I was never gonna let anyone see that they got to me.
hopps		...And two?
nick		If the world's only gonna see a fox as shifty and untrustworthy, there's no point in trying to be anything else.
hopps		Nick, you are so much more than that...
nick		Boy, look at that traffic down there.  How about we go out to Chuck in Traffic Central-- Chuck, how are things looking on the Jam Cams?
hopps		Nick, I'm glad you told me...
nick		 The Jam Cams...!
hopps		Seriously, it's okay...
nick		No-n-shh-shush! There are traffic cameras everywhere. All over the canopy. Whatever happened to that jaguar--
hopps		The traffic cams would have caught it!
nick		Bingo!
hopps		Pretty sneaky, Slick.
nick		However. If you didn't have access to the system before, I doubt Chief Buffalo Butt is gonna let you into it now.
hopps		 No... But I have a friend at City Hall who might.
bellwether		Sir? If we could just review these very important--  Sir?
lionheart		Okay. I heard you, Bellwether. Just take care of it!  Please. And clear my afternoon, I'm going out.
bellwether		No, no! But, sir, you do have a meeting with Herds and Grazing... sir, if I could just--
hopps		Assistant Mayor Bellwether? We need your help.
hopps		We just need to get into the traffic cam database.
nick		 So fluffy!
hopps		Hey!
nick		Sheep never let me this close.
hopps		You can't just touch a sheep's wool...
bellwether		Where to?
hopps		Rainforest District, Vine and Tujunga.
bellwether		There! Traffic cams for the whole city. This is so exciting, actually. Well, you know, I never get to do anything this important.
hopps		But you're the Assistant Mayor of Zootopia.
bellwether		Oh, I'm more of a glorified secretary. I think Mayor Lionheart just wanted the sheep vote...  But he did give me that nice mug.
bellwether		That's a fun little name he likes to use. I called him Lionfart once. He did not care for that, let me tell you. It was not a good day for me.  Yes, sir?
bellwether		Oh, dear. I better go --  Let me know what you find. It was really nice for me to be--
nick		You think when she goes to sleep she counts herself?
hopps		Shush. Okay, traffic cams...  Tujunga, Tujunga... we're in.
nick		Timberwolves. Look at these dumdums.
hopps		 Howlers! Night howlers! That's what Manchas was afraid of... wolves! The wolves are the night howlers. If they took Manchas...
nick		...I bet they took Otterton too.
hopps		All we gotta do is find out where they went.
nick		You know, if I wanted to avoid surveillance because I was doing something illegal-- which I never have-- I would use the maintenance tunnel 6B... which would put them out...
hopps		Well, look at you, Junior Detective. You know, I think you'd actually make a pretty good cop.
nick		How dare you.
hopps		They're heading out of town... Where does that road go?
wolf guard		Gary, quit it, you're gonna start a howl.
wolf guard		Oooooooooo!
hopps		Come on!
nick		You are a clever bunny.
hopps		It looks like this was a hospital.
nick		 You know, after you, you're the cop.
nick		Okay. All clear.
hopps		All this equipment is brand new...
hopps		Claw marks...
nick		Yeah. Huge, huge, claw marks. I mean, what kind of--
hopps		Mr. Manchas.
nick		Or not. Guess he's in no rush to get home to the Missus.
hopps		...11, 12, 13, 14. Not including Manchas it's 14...  Chief Bogo handed out 14 Missing Mammal files... They're all here. All the missing mammals are right here.
badger doctor		Mayor Lionheart, please, we're doing everything we can.
lionheart		Really? Cuz I got a dozen and a half animals here who've gone off the rails crazy-- and you can't tell me why. Now, I'd call that awfully far from doing everything.
badger doctor		Sir, it may be time to consider their biology.
lionheart		What? What do you mean biology?
badger doctor		The only animals going savage are predators. We cannot keep it a secret. We need to come forward.
lionheart		Hmm... Great idea. Tell the public. And how do you think they're gonna feel about their mayor, who is a lion?! I'll be ruined!
badger doctor		Well, what does Chief Bogo say?
lionheart		Chief Bogo doesn't know. And we are going to keep it that way.
badger doctor		Sir, you need to go, now!  Security! Sweep the area!
nick		Great! We're dead. We're dead. That's it. I'm dead. You're dead. Everybody's dead.
hopps		Can you swim?
nick		What? Can I swim? Yes, I can swim. Why?
hopps		We gotta tell Bogo!
clawhauser		Chief Bogo!
bogo		 Not now!
clawhauser		Wait, is that Gazelle?
bogo		 No!
clawhauser		You have the app too?!  Oh, jeeeeez!
bogo		Clawhauser, can't you see I'm working on the missing mammal cases?!
clawhauser		Oh, yes of course! About that, sir... Officer Hopps just called... She found all of `em.
hopps		Mayor Lionheart, you have the right to remain silent. Anything--
lionheart		You don't understand. I was trying to protect the city.
hopps		You were just trying to protect your job.
lionheart		No. Listen, we still don't know why this is happening. It could destroy Zootopia.
hopps		You have the right to remain silent. Anything you say can and will be used against you in a court of law...
bogo		Ladies and Gentlemammals... 14 mammals went missing and all 14 have been found by our newest recruit, who will speak to you in a moment. But first, let me remind you--
hopps		Rrrgh. I am so nervous...
nick		Okay, press conference 101: You wanna look smart? 
hopps		You should be there with me. We did this together.
nick		Well, am I a cop? No. No, I am not.
hopps		Funny you should say that, because I've been thinking... it would be nice to have a partner.
bellwether		Officer Hopps, it's time.
bogo		So now, I'll turn things over to the officer who cracked the case. Officer Judy Hopps.
press		Officer Hopps! / Over here! / Here!
hopps		 Yes?
reporter		What can you tell us about the animals that went savage?
hopps		Well, the animals in question...  Are they all different species? Yes. Yes they are.
reporter 2		Okay, so what is the connection?
hopps		Well, all we know is that they are all members of the predator family.
another reporter		So, predators are the only ones going savage?
hopps		That is accu-- Yes, that is accurate. Yes...
reporter 3		Wow. Why is that happening?
hopps		We still don't know--
hopps		A biological component. You know, something in their DNA...
reporter 4		 In their DNA? Can you elaborate on that, please?
hopps		Yes. What I mean is, thousands of years ago... um... predators survived through their aggressive hunting instincts. For whatever reason, they seem to be reverting back to their primitive, savage ways.
hopps		It is possible. So we must be vigilant. And we at the ZPD are prepared and are here to protect you...
press		Will more mammals go savage? / What is being done to protect us? / Have you considered a mandatory quarantine on predators?
bellwether		Okay, thank you Officer Hopps, uh, that's all the time that we have. No more questions...
hopps		Was I okay?
bellwether		Oh, you did fine.
hopps		 That went so fast! I didn't get a chance to mention you or say anything about how we--
nick		 Oh, I think you said plenty.
hopps		What do you mean?
nick		 Clearly, there's a biological component? These predators may be reverting back to their primitive, savage ways. Are you serious?
hopps		I just stated the facts of the case. I mean, it's not like a bunny could go savage...
nick		Right. But a fox could? Huh?
hopps		Nick, stop it. You're not like them.
nick		Oh, there's a them now?
hopps		You know what I mean. You're not that kind of predator.
nick		The kind that needs to be muzzled? The kind that makes you think you need to carry around Fox Repellent?
hopps		No. Nick. Nick!
reporter 5		Officer Hopps! Were you just threatened by that predator?
hopps		No. He's my friend.
reporter 6		We can't even trust our own friends?
hopps		That is not what I said! Please!
reporters		Are we safe? / Have any other foxes gone savage?
pig		Go back to the forest, predator!
leopard		I'm from the savannah!
gazelle		Zootopia is a unique place. It's a crazy, beautiful, diverse city where we celebrate our differences.  This is not the Zootopia I know.
gazelle		We cannot let fear divide us. Please-- give me back the Zootopia I love...
bogo		Come on Hopps. The new Mayor wants to see us.
hopps		The Mayor? Why?
bogo		It would seem you've arrived.
hopps		Clawhauser? What're you doing?
clawhauser		Um, they thought it would be better if a predator such as myself wasn't the first face you that you see when you walk into the ZPD.
hopps		What?
clawhauser		They're gonna move me to Records. It's downstairs. By the boiler.
bogo		Hopps!
hopps		Um... I don't understand.
bellwether		Our city is 90% prey, Judy. And right now they're just really scared. You're a hero to them. They trust you. And so that's why Chief Bogo and I want you to be the public face of the ZPD.
hopps		 I'm not... I'm not a hero. I came here to make the world a better place, but I think I broke it.
bogo		Don't give yourself so much credit, Hopps. The world has always been broken. That's why we need good cops-- like you.
hopps		With all due respect, sir, a good cop is supposed to serve and protect-- help the city. Not tear it apart.  I don't deserve this badge.
bogo		Hopps.
bellwether		Judy, you've worked so hard to get here. It's what you've wanted since you were a kid. You can't quit...
hopps		Thank you for the opportunity.
hopps		A dozen carrots.
rabbit mom		Thanks!
hopps		Have a nice day.
rabbit mom		 Come on.
stu hopps		Hey there, Jude-- Jude the dude, remember that one? How we doin?
bonnie hopps		You are not fine. Your ears are droopy.
hopps		Why did I think I could make a difference?
stu hopps		Because you're a trier, that's why.
bonnie hopps		You've always been a trier.
hopps		Oh, I tried. And it made life so much worse for so many innocent predators.
stu hopps		Oh, not all of them, though. Speak of the devil. Right on time.
hopps		Is that... Gideon Grey?
stu hopps		Yep. It sure is. We work with him now.
bonnie hopps		He's our partner. And we never would have considered it had you not opened our minds.
stu hopps		That's right. I mean, Gid's turned into one of the top pastry chefs in the tri-burrows.
hopps		That's really cool, you guys.
hopps		Well, I know a thing or two about being a jerk...
stu hopps		Hey kids! Don't you run through that midnicampum holicithias!
rabbit kid		 Whoa, whoa, whoa!
hopps		I'm sorry, what did you say?
stu hopps		Oh, Gid's talking about those flowers, Judy. I use `em to keep bugs off the produce. But I don't like the little ones going near `em on account of what happened to your Uncle Terry.
bonnie hopps		Yeah, Terry ate one whole when we were kids and went completely nuts.
stu hopps		He bit the dickens out of your mother.
hopps		 A bunny can go savage...
bonnie hopps		Savage? Well, that's a strong word. But it did hurt like the devil.
stu hopps		Well sure it did. There's a sizable divot in your arm. I'd call that savage.
hopps		 Night howlers aren't wolves. They're flowers. The flowers are making the predators go savage. That's it! That's what I've been missing!
stu hopps		You catch any of that, Bon?
bonnie hopps		Not one bit.
gideon grey		Well, that makes me feel a little better. I thought she was talking in tongues or something.
finnick		Who is it?
hopps		I need to find Nick. Please.
hopps		Nick? Nick!
nick		Wow. Isn't that interesting.
hopps		Wait! Wait, please-- I know you'll never forgive me. And I don't blame you. I wouldn't forgive me either. I was ignorant and irresponsible and small-minded... But predators shouldn't suffer because of my mistakes. I have to fix this, but I can't do it without you.
nick		Don't worry, Carrots, I'll let you erase it... in 48 hours.
hopps		I'm sorry.
nick		I thought you guys only grew carrots.  What's the plan?
hopps		We are gonna follow the night howlers.
nick		Okay. How?
hopps		 Know this guy?
nick		Uh-huh. I told you, I know everybody.
duke weaselton		Well, hello, step right up! Anything you need... I got it. All your favorite movies! I got movies that haven't even been released yet!
nick		 Well, well, look who it is. The duke of bootleg.
duke weaselton		What's it to you, Wilde? Shouldn't you be melting down a popsicle or something?  Hey, if it isn't Flopsy the Copsy.
hopps		We both know those weren't moldy onions I caught you stealing. What were you gonna do with those night howlers, Wessleton?
duke weaselton		It's Weaselton. Duke Weaselton. And I ain't talking, rabbit. And ain't nothing you can do to make me.
duke weaselton		Aaagh! Agh!  Ya dirty rat! Why ya helping her?! She's a cop!
hopps		Aw.
duke weaselton		All right, all right, please! I'll talk! I'll talk. I stole them night howlers so I could sell `em. They offered me what I couldn't refuse... Money.
hopps		And to whom did you sell them?
hopps		Come on!  As they sneak up to it... Hopps pulls open the window and looks inside the car. They both jump into...
hopps		The weasel wasn't lying.
nick		Yeah, looks like old Doug's cornered the market on night howlers...
doug		 You got Doug here. What's the mark? Cheetah in Sahara Square. Got it.
doug		 Out.
nick		Hey. Hey! Where are you going? Get back here! What are you doing?! He's gonna see you! What are you looking at? Hey! Whatever you're thinking, stop thinking it. Carrots! Carrots!
doug		It better have the extra foam this time--
nick		What are you doing?! You just trapped us in here!
hopps		We need to get this evidence to the ZPD.
nick		Okay. Great. Here it is. Got it.
hopps		No. All of it!
nick		Wait, what?
doug		 Oh! It just got worse!
nick		Mission accomplished. Would it be premature for me to do a little victory toot-toot?
hopps		All right. One toot-toot.
nick		Well, I can cross that off the bucket list.
hopps		 Don't stop! Keep going!
jesse		 No! No! Please stop!
hopps		Do not stop this car!
nick		 There's another train coming!
hopps		Trust me! SPEED! UP!
woolter		Stop the train! Hey!
hopps		Hey. Need some help?
nick		Oh no! Oh no, no, no! Too fast! Hold on!
hopps		Okay... Maybe some of the evidence survived.
nick		 Yeah. Oh, except for this.
hopps		Oh, Nick! Yes!
nick		Ow.
hopps		Come on! We gotta get to the ZPD. Cut through the Natural History Museum!
hopps		Oh! There it is!
hopps		Mayor Bellwether!  We found out what's happening. Someone's darting predators with a serum-- that's what's making them go savage.
bellwether		 I am so proud of you, Judy. You did just a super job.
hopps		Thank you, ma'am.  How did you know where to find us?
bellwether		I'll go ahead and I'll take that case now.
hopps		You know what... I think Nick and I will just take this to the ZPD...
bellwether		Get them!
hopps		Ach!
nick		Ah Carrots!
hopps		Pass.
hopps		Take the case. Get it to Bogo.
nick		I'm not gonna leave you behind. That's not happening.
hopps		I can't walk.
nick		Just, we'll think of something.
bellwether		We're on the same team, Judy!
bellwether		Underestimated. Under-appreciated. Aren't you sick of it? Predators. They may be strong and loud, but prey out-number predators 10 to one.
hopps		What are you going to do? Kill me?
bellwether		No! Of course not... he is.
hopps		No! Nick?!
bellwether		Yes, police! There's a savage fox in the natural history museum. Officer Hopps is down! Please hurry!
hopps		No. Nick, don't do this. Fight it.
bellwether		Oh, but he can't help it, can he? Since preds are just biologically predisposed to be savages.
hopps		So that's it, prey fears predator, and you stay in power?
bellwether		Yeah, pretty much.
hopps		It won't work.
bellwether		Fear always works. And I'll dart every predator in Zootopia to keep it that way.
hopps		 Oh, Nick! No!
bellwether		Bye-Bye, Bunny.
hopps		Blood, blood, blood! And death.
nick		All right, you're milking it. Besides, I think we got it, I think we got it. We got it up there, thank you yakkety-yak-- you laid it all out beautifully.
bellwether		What?
nick		Yea, oh, are you looking for the serum?  Well, it's right here.
hopps		What you've got in the weapon there- - those are blueberries. From my family's farm.
nick		They are delicious.  You should try some.
bellwether		I framed Lionheart, I can frame you too! It's my word against yours!
hopps		Oooo, actually--
hopps		--It's your word against yours. It's called a hustle, sweetheart. Boom.
prey anchor		Her predecessor, Leodore Lionheart, denies any knowledge of her plot, claiming he was just trying to protect the city.
lionheart		Did I falsely imprison those animals? Well, yes. Yes I did. It was a classic "doing the wrong thing for the right reason" kind of a deal.
pred anchor		In related news, doctors say the night howler antidote is proving effective in rehabilitating the afflicted predators...
hopps		So, no matter what type of animal you are, from the biggest elephant to our first fox...
bogo		...Enough! Shut it! We have some new recruits with us this morning, including our first fox. Who cares.
nick		Ha! You should have your own line of inspirational greeting cards, sir.
bogo		Shut your mouth, Wilde. Assignments! Officers Grizzoli, Fangmeyer, Delgato: Tundratown Swat. Snarlov, Higgins, Wolfard: Undercover. Hopps, Wilde...  Just kidding! We have reports of a street racer tearing up Savannah Central. Find him, shut him down.
nick		So are all rabbits bad drivers or is it just you?
hopps		Oops. Sorry.
nick		 Sly bunny.
hopps		Dumb fox.
nick		You know you love me.
hopps		Do I know that? Yes. Yes, I do.
hopps		Sir, you were going 115 miles per hour. I hope you have a good explanation.
nick		Flash? Flash? Hundred yard dash?!
flash		 Nick.
****Dialogues from script :xXx.txt****

sterling		I hate to drop in unexpectedly.
sterling		Time for a slow boat to China.
sterling		Oh bloody hell!
sam tannick		Come.
gibbons		Evening, Sam.
sam tannick		What do you have?
gibbons		Not a whole helluva lot. His final transmission was mangled. About something or someone called "Ahab". Whatever it is, it cost him his life.
sam tannick		He was the best there was. That makes three agents lost.
gibbons		They're ruthless and they have a lot of firepower. It's only a matter of time before they figure out how to deploy Silent Night. Then we're gonna have a catastrophe on our hands.
sam tannick		Silent Night in the hands of a bunch of impertinent cowboys
gibbons		We're gonna have to step in, Sam. Those CIA boys couldn't find a clown in a field of cactus. Let me take care of it.
sam tannick		How will you fix it?
gibbons		I'll go in with a team. But first I'm going to need some intel. I'll have to put someone inside, someone new, someone they won't see coming. One of their own.
sam tannick		So you'll dredge the bottom again. You've done that before. The results were... uneven.
gibbons		You wanna find out about rats, ask a rat. I've had my people put together a talent pool. I downloaded it to your desktop.
gibbons		The usual prospects. Convicts, contract killers, murde...
sam tannick		The scum of the Earth.
gibbons		But programmable. And expendable.
sam tannick		I've seen enough. Turn it off.
sam tannick		They're degenerates. There's not a man in there that would give a damn if the Chinese took over.
gibbons		That's exactly why we need them.
sam tannick		Get these "scum", Mr. Gibbons, bring them in. Test them. Train them. Find your man.
security guard		Crump... I'm sorry, no one by that name.
security guard		Hey! You can't go up there!
security guard		We've got an intruder in the express elevator!
xander		Sky, you there? Start packin' cause we are out of here!
xander		Did I promise you a fat vacation or what? Get ready to get down in paradise.
xander		Hey, you don't need all this just to go on vacation. Unless this ain't for going on vacation...
sky		I'm through, Xander.
xander		I can see that. Why?
sky		You run around with maniacs jumping motorcycles in the desert, you break 36 bones crashing wave runners and snowboarding off cliffs, all with no health insurance... It's insane, I can't take it anymore.
xander		I'm having fun, what's the problem?
sky		You have all this talent, and you waste it. You won't take a single endorsement deal. Meanwhile those other guys have their own video games! But no, you've got too much "integrity" for that.
xander		I don't wanna go mersh, you know that. But hey, if this is about money...
xander		I got an advance on the next bootleg. Let's get out of here, just you and me. We'll chill out in Bora Bora for a couple months.
sky		French Polynesia? This wouldn't last us a week in a cheap hotel. Do you know how expensive it is down there?
xander		Alright, so I'll get more.
sky		It's not about the money, X! You never plan for anything. I can't live like that anymore, I need some stability.
xander		Well if you're bailing, I guess I'd better give you your surprise now.
sky		What...?
xander		I was gonna wait till the islands, but...
sky		You're serious?
xander		Of course I'm serious. I bought it, didn't I?
sky		 This is so typical. I can't believe you. I've barely seen you for the last three weeks and now this? Are you out of your mind?
xander		I don't know. I thought this is what you wanted. You want stability, here it is.
sky		You can't just propose to me out of nowhere. You think that's going to solve our problems? I'm sorry, X. It was a kick for a while, but it's over. You're just not going anywhere.
xander		You're not exactly "going anywhere" yourself.
sky		You're wrong about that. I'm heading out that door right now.
xander		She had nothing to do with the tower jump. She's nobody. I just met her last night. Tell them.  I hardly know you.
sky		Keep the ring. It looks better on you anyways.
xander		God, I hate cops. What's the charges this time?
xander		 You... pussies...
xander		What the hell?
xander		Hey. Where am I? How did I get here?
waitress		I don't know, you wandered in ten minutes ago and put your head down. I told you we were closing.
waitress		Want some coffee?
xander		Huh?
xander		You alright?
waitress		 Fine, just fine. Come on and sit. I'll get you something to eat.
xander		Yeah, sure.
xander		What?
trucker		I said, you got a problem, boy?
xander		Problem? No, no problem. You go right ahead.
trucker		With what? I said, go right on ahead with what?
xander		Whatever, dude.
trucker		Alright, nobody make a move!  Shoulda walked away when you had the chance, dumb shit.
salesman		Forget him, Buck, let's just do it.
trucker		Shut up!  You keep still or I'm gonna make damn sure you stop breathing today. Got that?
xander		 Alright, "Buck", whatever you say.
trucker		Keep your gotdam mouth shut and empty that register! Couldn't just let him leave, could ya! You know what I'm gonna do to ya for that? Huh? Do ya?!
xander		Better shoot me quick.
xander		Too late!
xander		Alright, bitch, what's going on?
xander		Talk! What's the game? Who are you people?
xander		Who the hell are you?
gibbons		The name's Gibbons. You were saying?
xander		What is this place?
gibbons		Looks like a diner.
xander		Diner, huh? Let me tell you what the problem is. I wake up drugged to find what? You've got a "salesman" over here reading a three week old newspaper. He's pulling a 211 with a "trucker", who happens to be packing a cop issue H&K 9mm. I get tipped that something is going down when she passes me a note. How's that for twisted logic? How did she know there was trouble unless they pulled the guns before I "walked" in? And if that's true, why'd they stop and wait until I woke up to gaffle the money? Then I notice how beefy they both are. Hell, even the waitress is cut. All three of them look like they went through the same training program. Ergo they ain't strangers and this isn't what it seems. That's how I knew yo-yo wouldn't get a round off even if I gave him all day. Why?
xander		Cuz there's nothing but blanks in these guns. And no offense, but their performances were terrible.
gibbons		Not bad. Not bad at all. Have a seat.
gibbons		Most guys we ran through this either took off or helped them rob the place. I expected you to do the same.
xander		That shows me already that you don't have a clue. What's it to you, anyway?
gibbons		Whether you thought this was for real or not, you jumped in and helped the waitress on instinct. That tells me something about your character.
xander		Good for you. Now why don't you stop wasting my time and tell me what you want. You didn't go through all this for my benefit.
gibbons		It's your lucky day. You just might get the chance to pay back our wonderful country for all the freedom you enjoy.
xander		A Fed, I shoulda known. Who else would have this kind of budget? Now you're gonna hit me with the sales pitch.
gibbons		Alright, Cage, you've got me. This is one of those moments. "Many are called, few are chosen", that kind of thing. Your government needs you. Are you up for the challenge?
xander		..If you're trolling around for narcs, man, have you got the wrong guy.
gibbons		Why is that?
xander		Look at me, dude, do I look like a fan of law enforcement? Forget the tests, you shoulda just asked me. I woulda saved you a lot of trouble.
gibbons		Oh I don't know, I think the tests work pretty well. Sometimes they give me answers you wouldn't admit to in a million years.
xander		Are we done now? You've got nothing on me. So if you ain't booking me, I'm walking.
gibbons		You've got this wrong. You're not under arrest, you've been abducted. And until I say different, you belong to me.
xander		Is that a fact?
gibbons		Sure as gravity. I've had a feeling about you from the start, Cage. It's nausea.
xander		 You know what I hate? Any scumbag with a clean shirt and a bad haircut can get one of those tin stars and suddenly they think they're God.
gibbons		 You know what I hate? It's always the assholes that pass the tests.
xander		You bastards love to see me sleep.
virg		What's so damn funny?
xander		Been to any good diners lately?
xander		Nobody told me this was a costume party.
virg		Heads up, man. What's this thing on my back?
xander		A parachute. This does not argue well.
virg		This is bullshit! Hey!
xander		I get the picture.
virg		Jee-zus, man! What the hell now? Another damn test?
xander		Don't look at me, brother. It's every man for himself.
xander		You gotta be kidding me.
xander		You boys are too good for me. Guess I failed this one, huh?
xander		So much for "every man for himself". Nice to see you again, fellas.
virg		Check the table in the corner.
xander		This oughta be good.
xander		This must be el jefe. How's it goin' jefe? Some weather we're havin'.
xander		What's on the menu tonight? The old blowtorch-to-the-family jewels routine, I'll bet. Hey, you want roasted nuts, let's break out the Planters.
jefe		Do you know what we do with people come round here? You know what we do with people come in our business?
jefe		We cut the Achilles tendon. Your feet flop around like a marionette. You ain't walkin' nowhere no more. Sound good, tough guy? Or maybe instead you wanna tell me something.
jefe		Whatchu doing here?
xander		Oh, I don't know. It was an accident.
jefe		That's some accident, hombre. You accidentally fall out of a plane in the middle of the night and land up in my back yard.
jefe		We seen this kind of parachutes before, you know. U.S. Army. You got some friends here, jump out with you guys?
xander		We're anti-social. We don't have any friends.
jefe		No friends, huh? That's funny, I don't know no U.S. Army that comes without no friends. That's cuz U.S. Army is pussies. They always come with the five hundred guys and the helicopters and the see-in-the-dark glasses. So don't you tell me you all alone out here, my friend. You bullshitting the wrong guy.
xander		Who's writing this dude's dialogue?
virg		He's a pretty good actor, though.
jefe		You ain't begun to see crazy yet, amigo.
xander		We're on to the game, ese. You got the fake blood splattered all over the walls, you got your torture tools... It's all very cute. But come on, let's quit while you're ahead. I'm only trying to save you a beatin'.
jefe		You saving me? You talking pretty tough for a guy got himself chained to the ceiling.
xander		 Alright. You wanna eat through a tube, be my guest.
jefe		Now you're gonna make me enjoy this, funny guy. Now I'm gonna take the whole foot off. Whatchu think of that?
jefe		What's that, eh? I thought you didn't have no friends!
xander		Keys. You got 'em?
xander		Hand 'em to me.
xander		I hope you're getting paid extra for this.
virg		They're shooting for real! This is all real.
xander		Aw shit.
xander		Help me with this guy.
virg		It's like you said, every man for himself.
xander		That only works if you're a man!
xander		You alright?
xander		Keep your head down, I'll be right back. I'm gonna steal us some wheels.
virg		They're all over the place! What the hell's going on?
xander		Looks like we're in the middle of the drug war.
xander		Alright Mr. free-for-all, you go that way, I'm gonna go this way. They can't follow us both.
xander		Go!
xander		Shit!
xander		I'm gonna need to hit the trees after a night like this.
xander		Nice of you to draw me a bath. Is it Saturday already?
gibbons		Congratulations, you've just graduated at the head of your class.
xander		You're a cold piece of work. You almost got three people killed out there.
gibbons		Good thing you were there to save the day. Come walk with me.
gibbons		You've really got me confused, Cage. On the one hand you showed leadership, courage under fire, a willingness to protect men you hardly knew... and on the other you have an arrest record that pegs you as near sociopathic. Help me out here. I'm not following your evolution.
xander		You want the cheap backstory? The runaway mom, the suicide dad and the foster homes? Gimme a break. You're not interested in my past, you're interested in my future as some kind of spy.
gibbons		You're perceptive too. I forgot to add that to the list of surprises. I'm with the National Security Agency. And unlikely as it may sound, I need your help.
xander		I'm not interested. I've already got a job.
gibbons		You're an adrenaline junkie with one foot in the penitentiary. You risk your ass building a daredevil myth that means nothing and you're not getting any younger.
xander		I plan on getting a lot older. And playing spy games sounds like a quick way to get yourself dead.
gibbons		That's too bad. I thought a guy like you would appreciate the challenge.
xander		What's this? You're gonna try to scare me now?
gibbons		Do you know the reason why I try to recruit guys like you? There's no risk.
gibbons		There's nobody back home who's gonna ask questions if you just... disappear for a while.
xander		Now I'm the one who's nauseous. So what's the deal? What do you need me for?
gibbons		There's some folks I want to keep tabs on. Dirty, tattooed, uncivilized. Your kind of people.
xander		What do I get out of it?
gibbons		If you find out what I want to know, and if I'm able to successfully use that information, you get to go back to your degenerate little life. If not, you take a bath.
xander		You're one sick bastard. A sadist with a badge looking to rope me in to a suicide mission. I think no matter which way I go I'm likely to wind up face down on a sheet of plastic. So here's my answer: kiss my ass, Hop-along.
xander		Not bad for a gimp.
gibbons		What's with that "X" on the back of your head? Does that mean you're "extreme"? I've got some news for you, Mr. X, you're a three time loser. So maybe you should tattoo another couple of X's on your head.
xander		I'll take that under advisement. Maybe I can be like you and lose a leg for the old Stars and Bars. I bet the flag's a great comfort every time you need help climbing stairs.
gibbons		One twitch and my finger and thumb will meet inside your esophagus. Believe me, Mr. X, I've put foot to ass for my country on many occasions and I don't feel the urge to stop just yet. So think carefully before you tell me: Is "kiss my ass, Hop- along" your final answer?
xander		 No.
gibbons		I thought you might see it my way.
gibbons		Where you going, X? I said where you going?
xander		You tell me.
xander		There better be a movie on this Goddam flight.
xander		How about a pedicure as long as you're down there. What's this? Lo-Jack?
gibbons		Wherever you go on the planet, I'll find you. There's no quitting. If you try to take it off, a ring of needles will inject enough curare into your bloodstream to kill you before you hit the ground. Is all that clear?
xander		Yeah, I spy or I die.
nerdy agent		This is your communicator. You'll identify yourself by a call sign. From here on out you're Bulldog Omega
xander		You must stay up late to come up with shit like that.
gibbons		I expect you to call in regularly with progress reports.
xander		Fine, but I'm not gonna be no Bulldog
agent		Uh... Call signs derive from the parameters of the mission.
gibbons		If he doesn't like it, we can make an exception just this once. We'll call him "Triple X".
xander		Up yours.
gibbons		Crude and defiant as always, Triple X. It fits so well because you're obscene.
xander		Is that all?
gibbons		Just remember, I'll be watching.
xander		I've got something for you to chew on. Next time you send someone to save the world, make sure they like the planet the way it is.
kid		What game is that?
xander		Slick graphics, huh? See these dudes? They're called "Anarchy 99", they're the bad guy bosses.
kid		Do they have any special powers? The bosses always have special powers.
xander		You wanna check it out? Come here.
xander		First we've got Anders, the psycho looking biker. In charge of transportation and smuggling. Controls every trucking union in Eastern Europe. Don't look too clean, either.
xander		Next we got a Siberian redneck, Viktor. Into snowmobiles and snowboarding. So naturally, he covers prostitution and the drug trade.
kid		Naturally.
kid		This guy's kinda dorky lookin'.
xander		Kirill, the sniper. Looks like a bookworm, but he had 72 confirmed kills in Chechnya, they called him the "Finger of God". Assassination and weapons.
kid		Who's the hottie?
xander		You like her, huh? Petra. She runs their finances, money laundering, computers. Joined the gang after spending some time as the girlfriend of this dude, Yorgi Azar Zimin. Capo
xander		Yorgi masterminded the take-over of three Red Mafiya clans. Cops called it "blood week". He combined all of their global enterprises into one
kid		 "Anarchy" 99"?
xander		What are you gonna do? They're Euro- trash.
kid		What weapons do you have?
xander		Just about anything I want, it looks like. This is gonna be tough, though. There's no way to save this game. I gotta get it right the first time through.
kid		What do you get if you finish?
xander		Nothing, really. My guy is just doing it to stay alive.
kid		Oh. I bet by the end he gets something out of it.
xander		Like what?
kid		He gets to be the hero.
xander		This is bullshit, man, I wanna see some ID.
xander		You're both named Ivan? That's gotta be confusing on Valentine's Day. So where we headed? Fellas, I said where we headed?  Yeah, whatever.
xander		James Bond never had to put up with this shit.
slovo		Sit down.
xander		I've been on a plane for twelve hours, I think I'll stand.
slovo		My name is Slovo, Czech secret police. When you are here you are under my jurisdiction, you take my orders, you do what I say. If you become any kind of an inconvenience, I'll shoot you.
xander		Here we go again.
slovo		You're here because your government is putting pressure on my government. This is an internal affair, a Czech affair, that you are interfering with. I will warn you once: Don't shit in my lawn. Get whatever information your government seeks and get our.
xander		First of all, you should kill whoever sold you that suit. Two, I don't wanna be here either, so just step off. Three, if you had the authority to shoot me you would've done it by now, so just ease up on the machismo, bitch. Now that we've got that sorted out, I'm gonna get some rest.
slovo		Be ready in three hours.
xander		Nice hops.
slovo		See the one with the funny colored hair? Crazy bitch stabbed one of my men in the knee-cap. There they are, American. The low-rent millionaire criminals. And you thought only your country had white trash. American?
slovo		Oh no!
slovo		Jesus Christ!
slovo		 What the hell...?
xander		That's the guy.
yorgi		This pizda? Never seen him before.
xander		 Who you workin' for? What do you do for a living, dickhead?
slovo		Uh... I am... I work in insurance.
slovo		 What the hell are you doing?
xander		Look what we have here. Czech 5-0 on the mack.
yorgi		Cops. Like a plague. No matter how many you pay there's always another with his hand out. How did you pick him out?
xander		He flashed his badge to half the bar when he bought his drink.
yorgi		I appreciate you bringing this to our attention. Whatever you want, the rest of the night, consider it on the house.
xander		Thanks, but I'm here on business. I heard you're the G around here. I'm looking for some cars, expensive ones. A lot of them.
yorgi		Sorry, man, don't know what you're talking about.
xander		I'm talking about the sports cars that disappear off the docks in Genoa and wind up here. If you don't know about 'em, who does?
xander		I guess I heard wrong.
yorgi		Xander Cage!
anders		The X man! We seen your bootleg videos!
viktor		You sick! You sick crazy on a board, on a bike! Everything!
yorgi		This is insane, man. Xander Cage in Prague. Come on, sit. Sit with us.
yorgi		I remember that one where you jump the motorcycle over the freeway at rush hour.
xander		When else are you gonna do it?
viktor		You almost died on that one.
xander		Cops arrested me while I was still in surgery. Did two months.
yorgi		We seen all your shit! So you want cars? We get whatever cars you need. What are you looking for?
xander		Ferrari's, Lamborghini's... high end pasta rockets. Ten to start.
anders		Ten! No problem! We do that no problem!
petra		Ten is hardly worth the effort. We're talking a lousy million five U.S.
xander		I have Japanese buyers who are looking to move a fleet, if you have the quality of merchandise they're after. And it's a mil two, max.
petra		Do you know what a wire transfer is?
xander		Is she for real? Honey, maybe you should quiet down and let the grownups have a conversation.
petra		My goodness, a word with four syllables. I should get some ice before your brain gets too hot.
xander		Sure. Just chisel some off your heart.
petra		 So cute. He shows up for a battle of wits with a mental butter knife.
yorgi		 Don't look at me, X, she handles all the details.
xander		It'll work faster if I have an account number.
petra		You'll have forty-eight hours to complete the transfer. Don't waste our time.
xander		Wouldn't dream of it. I'm even gonna throw in a few extra bucks to send you to charm school.
yorgi		Alright, now that business is finished, we party! Bitches, come! We have a drink and toast the deal!
xander		I believe I can hang with you fellas for a while.
xander		 I guess you got my E-mail. I set up a purchase. Ten cars.
gibbons		If you're trying to push my buttons, you're on the right track. Don't make me question my own judgment, X.
xander		Buddy, you sent me here to get close to their organization, that costs money.
gibbons		One point two million dollars? I did not authorize you to spend one point two million dollars!
xander		I'm already on a first name basis with these dudes, I got a deal set up, you want me to hammer it or not?
gibbons		We're not after car thieves here.
xander		What the hell am I after? You're telling me dick.
gibbons		That information is classified. You're there to gather information on their operations, period.
xander		Call me crazy, but I thought hooking up a million dollar deal was a great way to get on their good side. What else? You gonna hassle me about the weapons and spy stuff too?
gibbons		My friend, if you're planning on crossing me...
xander		I know, poison needles in my shins. You've got 36 hours. Peace, out.
sam tannick		Ridiculous. Cut him off. I'm sorry Gibbons, you pulled up a shark this time.
gibbons		I think we should send him whatever he wants.
sam tannick		You what? A wire transfer of this size?
gibbons		If it means getting Silent Night back, absolutely.
sam tannick		You're talking about a very expensive risk here.
gibbons		He's gotten closer in 24 hours than all of the other operatives combined. He got us an account number to boot. Now even if he's just dumb and lucky, I say we back his play.  I put him out there, Sam. If he doesn't come up with the money, they'll kill him. I can't let that happen.
sam tannick		Why not? You were going to throw him in a tub full of acid, weren't you?
sam tannick		Alright, do what you want. But keep the screws on him. He's a wild card. That could be either good or bad.
gibbons		So the odds are up to fifty-fifty? I can deal with that.
slovo		Your government must know something we don't.
shavers		Hate those Russkie choppers. Rattle- trap pieces of garbage. I'm agent Shavers. Toby Lee Shavers. I'm looking for what's his name. Three X' s.
xander		That's would be me.
shavers		Figures. You got someplace we can spread out my gear or what? I mean today.
slovo		I'll leave you two alone to talk.
xander		Yeah, thanks a lot.
shavers		Back off, just go away you klutz. Alright, here's the story. The items in these cases belong to me. I designed them, built them, and was going to use them in the field myself until you showed up.
xander		I stole your beat, huh? Guess you forgot to brown-nose the right people.
shavers		Is that supposed to be funny? I'm not laughing. I've worked for ten years to get my shot at being a field agent, funny boy. And ar the last minute I get bumped by you, some reject from the Ozzfest.
xander		Why don't you show me some gear before you get hurt.
shavers		Listen to you. Right away, sir, anything you say, sir.
xander		What is all this? I didn't even order some of this stuff.
shavers		You're gonna need it, rookie, trust me.
shavers		An all-terrain mobile video monitoring system for surveillance. I call it the "Roach Cam". See the little camera it's got for a head?
xander		Kinda looks like you.
shavers		"Terminator" climbing claws.
shavers		Miniature power cams set in on contact, giving you a sure grip on any surface.
xander		They come in any other styles or colors?
shavers		This is your standard dart gun.
xander		That one I'm real familiar with.
shavers		You've got your chromium knock-out dart, microphone listening dart, explosive dart, even one with a splatter blood packet, whatever you need. They also come in a special 9mm casing for use with your service pistol.
shavers		Multi-view binoculars. Nine different enhanced vision modes, plus a digital camera.
shavers		Infrared, starlight... Even a special "penetrator" mode to see through walls, curtains, almost anything...
xander		I think I'll hang on to these.
shavers		Think again, that's government property. You have to sign for everything. I've got one more that wasn't on your list.
xander		From the Beastie Boys collection?
shavers		It's a stakeout suit. It's got food, water, recording gear, anything you need for covert spying. It's all- weather, fire retardant, and if you give this buckle a sharp pull, the whole outfit deploys into a parachute.
xander		You're joking, right?
shavers		Now that I've given you the overview, we're going to spend the next couple hours going into extensive operational detail.
xander		I thought that was in detail.
anders		So what you think? Beautiful!
yorgi		Has it arrived yet?
petra		Nothing. He had two days.
yorgi		Perhaps he is not all he says he is.
xander		Very nice. I'm impressed.
yorgi		I'm somewhat less so. We seem to have a bit of a problem...
xander		I had to inspect the merchandise first.
yorgi		Of course.
xander		What's this?
yorgi		This is a gift. From me to you.
yorgi		It's a little nothing, you take it.
yorgi		Come on, get in.
xander		You're alright, Yorgi.
slovo		Smile, bychara.
kirill		Yorgi!
yorgi		What in the hell...?
yorgi		What's going on, my friend?
xander		You tell me! You got a sniper up there or what?
yorgi		He's not with us, Xander. He must be with you.
xander		 Bullshit! You get your boy off that roof or I swear to God I'm gonna give you another hole to breathe out of.
yorgi		Get him! Find out who he is!
xander		I've got him. Buckle up.
yorgi		That's the cop from the club!
yorgi		What are you doing? Get in the car!
yorgi		I don't believe it! You can't shoot a cop in the middle of the street!
xander		 Had to do what I had to do.
yorgi		You say you get a million, you get the million. Some cop gives us shit, he's dead. Jesus Christ, man, you're hard-core!
ivan 1		It's sweet.
yorgi		Total chaos, man! Welcome to Anarchy 99!
xander		What's "Anarchy 99"?
yorgi		It's all this craziness! It's what we've been living since 99, when we left the Army. One of our brothers died in Grozny and we said the hell with this shit. What for? He dies for what? Politics? Who's politics? Not ours.
xander		You wanna see my politics?
xander		Screw the world. If I'm gonna die for something, it better be bitches and money.
yorgi		That's what I'm talking about, man! That's why Anarchy 99 was born.
yorgi		To us it means no walls, no speed limits, no jails. It's everybody does what he wants. People think democracy is freedom but they don't have a clue. There's an old punk song. It says: "America stands for freedom, but if you think you're free..."
xander		"...try walking into a deli and urinating on the cheese". 'Anarchy Burger' by the Vandals.
yorgi		You got it, man. It's stupid but it's true. True freedom is when you do whatever you want anytime you want. That's when you know you're living, man.
xander		How you gonna do that with government and rules everywhere?
yorgi		Easy. You get enough money that you grow an ass big enough for the whole world to kiss.
yorgi		You hang with us, buddy, taste some freedom! Petra! Dance with this guy!
xander		This is great, dancing with the back of your head.
xander		If you got a problem with me, why are we dancing?
petra		Yorgi asked me to.
xander		You do everything Yorgi says?
petra		Go to hell.
xander		It's gonna be like that, huh? You got all bent out of shape as soon as he started dancing with someone else. Why's that?
petra		Mind your business.
xander		Did you guys used to date? That's it, right? He broke your heart and you're still soft on him. That's funny, it don't seem to fit with a tough broad like you.
xander		Where are you going?
petra		Why are you still hanging around? Your business is finished, you should go home.
xander		I was invited. What's your story?
petra		I don't know who you are or where you come from, but I don't like you. You ask too many questions.
xander		Come on, don't front like that. You'll put a guy right off you.
petra		Don't even bother, X man, I'm not your type.
xander		That right? Why's that?
petra		My chest is too small and my brain is too big.
yorgi		Xander, check it out! The revolution begins!
yorgi		Let's get some air, man.
xander		You got a great set-up here Yorgi. You really know how to live.
yorgi		It's a beautiful town, Prague. It's been good to me.
xander		I've been here before, when I was a kid. My old man was in the service, we used to live on the Army base in Hamburg.
yorgi		You, an Army brat? I don't see that one at all. Did you join the service as well?
xander		Hell no. My dad was a straight up tin soldier. Somehow he pissed this general off and got himself dishonorably discharged. Had a court martial and everything. The charges were total bullshit, so he was sure he'd get his name cleared, but it didn't happen.
yorgi		Connections and politics, it's the same everywhere.
xander		My old man, he bought into the system, and it screwed him. So he swallowed a bullet. Me, I don't believe in nothing I can't see and touch.
yorgi		Next week these idiots are having a peace conference here. What the hell are they going to talk about? It's the system itself that causes all the world's problems. You're okay, buddy. Come on, it's getting early.
yorgi		This way, girls, let's go!
viktor		Diversified global operations. The sun never sets on our empire.
yorgi		 Not bad, yes? The original owners, they just one day decide to move out.
petra		Yeb vas, z'opa. Shut up!
yorgi		I've got meetings this afternoon, I've got to get some sleep. Just pick a girl.
xander		That's alright, I'm kinda tired.
yorgi		You want to insult me? This is my hospitality. Pick one.
yorgi		Good, now find a room to crash in.
xander		You gonna tuck us in?
xander		Listen, no offense, but I'm not in the market right now, okay? You can stay here, but let's not --
xander		You don't understand a word I'm saying, do you?
xander		Stupid, right? That's what I was trying to tell you. I just got out of this heavy thing...
xander		The things I have to do for my country.
petra		What are you doing?
xander		Looking for a phone book. I want to call a cab. Unless you wanna give me a ride?
petra		Who are you?
xander		We hung out last night, remember?
petra		I also remember you drove your car here. Who are you really? Make no mistake, I will shoot you and not feel bad about it. Who are you working for?
xander		Hey, take it easy. I'm just a dude trying to make a buck.
petra		Bullshit. I see you look at everything, study everything, ask questions. I know exactly what you're doing. Empty your pockets.
xander		You've got to relax, baby, you're paranoid.
xander		Hey, you're good.
petra		Maybe we should start again, yes? I know so little about you, except that you're not what you say you are.
xander		That makes two of us then, sweetheart, because I ain't buying your bullshit either. You're not like them, I can see it in your eyes. So you tell me, who's bullshitting who?
yorgi		Something bothers me about you, Mr. Xander Cage...
yorgi		Get Kirill. Now!
kirill		What's the problem?
yorgi		I'm inside the police mainframe. Do you see anything?
kirill		What?
yorgi		I've searched their E-mail. No funeral announcement, no obituary, no call- to-arms. Nothing on the news, even. I swear I saw a cop get shot yesterday. How come no one is talking about it?
yorgi		I also check the wire transfer. I follow the money back to it's source, but there is no source. It comes from nowhere. First they bring CIA, then British SAS, now maybe they plumb the lower depths. Maybe now they send someone who looks like us. Maybe someone like our houseguest Mr. X.
petra		I don't know what you're talking about.
xander		The eyes don't lie. All this has gotten to you, hasn't it, Petra? You came in as Yorgi's girlfriend and you stayed because it was fun. Now you don't like it so much, but you're in so deep you can't get out anymore. Tell me if I'm wrong, Petra.
petra		Go to hell!
xander		Look at you. You're helping run things now. You're a gangster. I bet that snuck up on you. You woke up one day and you were a criminal.
xander		It's cool, I feel you. I might even be able to help. Here, let me show you something. You wanna see what's in my pocket, I'll show you.
petra		What are you?
xander		I'm an information gatherer. You wanna go somewhere and talk about it?
yorgi		Where is he?
viktor		They went to breakfast.
petra		Perogies, potato pancakes, fried goose livers, the sausage plate and a pot of Turkish coffee.
xander		I'm just gonna have a garden salad. Oil and balsamic vinegar on the side.
petra		That's how you eat? It's like a gerbil.
xander		 I'm from L.A.
petra		So why don't you tell me something about who you gather information for. They obviously have very deep pockets. Are you from a rival clan?
xander		Let's just say I'm freelancing and leave it at that.
petra		Whoever sent you knew what they were doing. You and Yorgi are practically twins. Two nihilistic fashion victims who make a lot of noise but don't say much.
xander		Don't judge a comic book by it's cover.
petra		You agree with a lot of what he says, don't you.
xander		I know where he's coming from. The only thing I really don't get is why he dumped you. Up until I found that out, I thought his judgment was pretty sound.
petra		Don't even start. I'll be honest, I don't trust you. Bur lets pretend for a minute that what you say is true, that I want to leave. What can you do about it?
xander		The people I know want facts, the kinds of things an insider would know. They're interested in putting Anarchy 99 out of business.
petra		All I have to do is risk my life providing you with these facts.
xander		We could work together. Then maybe we could both get the hell out of here. There's a beach in Bora Bora with my name on it.
petra		A beach named X? That I'd like to see.
xander		So there you have it. I guess you just have to ask yourself, how bad to you want out?
petra		 Da!
petra		 Yes.
xander		What's up? Is there a problem?
petra		They tell me you're an American agent.
xander		What are you talking about?
petra		There's no more time for games. They made you. There's a sniper out front waiting to put a bullet in your eye. Tell me if it's true.
xander		It's a long story, but yeah, more or less.
petra		Jesus Christ. You're going to have to go out the back. The data that you copied with your toy. Tomorrow, at six o'clock. Look it up. We're taking a trip. Be there at six and you'll have plenty to tell your people.
xander		If I go out the back, he'll know you've warned me.
petra		That's alright, I'll figure something out.
xander		Not an option. Just get up slowly like everything's cool. Petra, trust me. You just hung yourself out to dry for me, I'm not gonna let you down.
kirill		Nice and easy, Petra...
petra		I can't let this happen. I want you to go out the back. I'll make up some excuse.
xander		They'll kill you, you know they will. Besides, there is no back door. Keep smiling. Ready? Now.
xander		Very nice.
xander		Let's see what's going on inside...
yorgi		Ready the boat.
xander		What the hell are you guys stealing?
kirill		Ready.
petra		What are you doing?
yorgi		It all happened so fast. Such an unfortunate accident.
yorgi		Let's go.
xander		What the hell...?
xander		No way, man, no way. I'm just supposed to be an observer. Aw shit. This job sucks.
xander		Toby Lee Shavers, if this thing don't work, your ass is kicked.
yorgi		What was that for?
petra		I'd forgotten how exciting it is working together.
yorgi		You've been so quiet lately, Petra, I thought you no longer cared.
petra		Why don't we go below decks and work off some of this adrenaline.
yorgi		 Viktor! Stay the course.
xander		Son of a bitch!
xander		Is the boy alright?
captain		Yes. I will cut the others loose, you must run the bilge pumps!
xander		You sure?
xander		Captain, huh? You get a lot of broads with that uniform?
xander		 They call it "Ahab", it's a solar powered submersible. It can circumnavigate the globe on it's own. They use it to track and study the migration patterns of whales.
gibbons		You did say "Ahab"? You're sure about that?
xander		Yeah, I sent you pictures. Here's what I'm thinking. If they take out the cameras and sensors, they could probably put a bomb in this thing. You drop it in the water in the Red Sea and three weeks later it's swimming up the Potomac.
gibbons		This is good work, X, damn fine work. You need to press on at all costs, find out what they have planned with this "Ahab".
xander		Hey, one miracle at a time. They're on to me now, remember?
gibbons		I'm gonna be en route with a team shortly to relieve you. Just keep the pressure on until the cavalry arrives. And X? You done yourself proud helping those people today.
xander		Thanks.
gibbons		You're a grungy little phoenix, you know that? Keep up the good work.
xander		You ain't seen nothing yet.
xander		Get in. We've got work to do.
xander		I want all that...  In there.
xander		Right behind you.
xander		So what's the plan with this Ahab? Are they selling it or what?
petra		No, something worse. He says it's a surprise, but I know him. This is his masterpiece.
xander		We've got to find out what it is. Can you handle that?
petra		 There's something I didn't have time to tell you before.
xander		What's that?
petra		I'm a agent as well. KGB. I've been undercover for over a year.
xander		You're what? What the hell have you been doing?
petra		I don't know. Eight months ago I stop hearing from my people. No explanation, just silence. So I stay and I wait like I was told. Soon I'm in so far, they'd kill me if I left. Now every day I get farther and farther away from what I was. I'm like you said, a criminal.
xander		I'm busted up for you, but Jesus, what the hell are you doing? Those people almost drowned on that boat and you didn't lift a finger.
petra		No, I guess I've been no help at all to you.
xander		Get your head back in the game. There are lives at stake here.
petra		Of course. I'll do what I can. I have to go, before they notice.
xander		When can I see you again?
petra		You can't, it's too risky. I'm not much help anyway, remember?
viktor		Okay, fire one.
yorgi		Perfect!
xander		Great piece of hardware.
anders		 "Silent Night... Holy Night"
xander		Damn.
kirill		There's some bullshit going on!
yorgi		Xander, my friend, that can only be you. Why don't we put our weapons down for a few minutes and discuss this like friends. How would you like to come to work for us instead? We could Rage Against the Machine together.
xander		Speaking of people that are full of shit, funny you should mention those guys!
xander		They put their records out through Sony, one of the biggest corporate machines on the planet. Some revolutionaries, huh?
yorgi		Come on, you're the one who's fooling yourself. Why risk your life for your government when we can offer you a future that is truly free?
yorgi		He blew the gate control. Anders! Get the bastard!
xander		Slovo?
xander		Dude, what are you doing here?
slovo		You killed me, remember? Now I have to hide out here with you. Where have you been?
xander		I found something big enough for us to take these guys down with. They've got a of nerve agent they're gonna unleash.
slovo		Is this what you're looking for?
xander		Yeah, give it here.
slovo		Sorry, "dude".
xander		 What's the deal?
slovo		Oh come on, don't feel bad. You got played, so what? You're new at this. Did you think you could just stroll into this business one day and have all the angles figured out?
xander		Why you dogging me up?
slovo		 They came and found me. They said they'd kill me unless I help them. Plus they offer me a lot of money. No big deal. These things happen. Dump your gun on the floor.
slovo		Where do you want it? The head to be quick? Or the chest for an open casket?
petra		Are you alright?
xander		What the hell are you doing? You could've killed me!
petra		 I heard you talking. I could tell where you were in the room.
xander		I don't know what's going on anymore. I thought I was square with that dude. Now everybody's switching sides like it's the WWF.
xander		What are you doing with the Ivans?
petra		I know which cops are good and which are bad. Come with me. Come on, right now.
xander		Where are we going?
petra		We're getting out of this place. We've done enough.
xander		Wait a minute, whoa. We can't go now. What's Yorgi got planned with that nerve agent?
petra		It doesn't matter anymore, forget it.
xander		Of course it matters. Hey, hold on!
petra		What do we owe our governments? Yours kidnapped you, mine abandoned me.
xander		Petra, this ain't about the people that sent us here, you know that.
petra		No, now it's about us. Let's do something for us before we both get killed. Don't you want to get to Bora Bora, Xander?
xander		We can't leave now. We have to do something.
petra		Why? You're the one who believes in nothing. Screw the world, or whatever you said.
xander		Alright, so I was full of shit. I thought believing in things was wrong. Turns out believing in nothing is worse. You might as well be dead. I'm not thrilled with the world, but I'm not gonna let those idiots start killing people. Come on, you're a cop, we've got to get these guys.
petra		They left. To a fortress in the mountains.
xander		We'll have to go after them.
petra		Aren't you afraid?
xander		A long time ago I learned how to put fear away in a little place in my head. Maybe that's my problem. If you don't feel fear you can do some amazing things, but you can also screw your life up in ways you can't imagine.
petra		I must be healthy, then, because I'm scared to death. I guess I'd better get back to Yorgi.
xander		You don't have to do that.
petra		Yes, I do. You're right. I can't just let him go free. Besides, I can help you from the inside.
xander		Aren't they gonna wonder were you've been?
petra		 I've been lying for so long, one more time won't hurt.
xander		When this is over, we're just gonna take off, the two of us. Take a vacation.
petra		What the hell are we doing? We're doing all this together, trusting each other, making plans, and we haven't even slept together yet.
xander		That gives us something to live for.
viktor		Hold positions!
xander		Nothing like fresh powder.
xander		 Gibbons, long time no talk. You wouldn't believe my day.
gibbons		What the hell has been going on, Triple X? How about a status report?
xander		Snow covered fortress. Army of bad guys. The usual.
gibbons		I'm on the way with a team to relieve you. What's the latest?
xander		They retrofitted Ahab with some kind of rocket launcher. They were loading canisters of liquid into it, light colored and dark colored in the same tube but separate. Something tells me this it that "classified" stuff you didn't want me to know about. Does the song "Silent Night" mean anything to you?
gibbons		Yes it does.
xander		Come on, Gibbons, you can do better then that.
gibbons		Silent Night is the name of a top secret binary nerve agent. The glass canister is shot into the air and detonated. The black and white chemicals mix, forming a toxic cloud. When it settles down to Earth, it'll kill everything in the vicinity.
xander		Jesus Christ, Gibbons, this is something we came up with?
gibbons		Yeah, that's right. So now that you know, you understand why it's important that we get it back.
xander		Kinda funny, though, isn't it? We're not supposed to be making weapons like that anyway. Guess we shoulda played by the rules.
gibbons		Somebody else makes those decisions, not guys like you and me. You've done your job, X, head back to Prague. I'll be landing in 90 minutes. This is my operation now.
xander		We don't have that kinda time, boss, I don't think Prague's gonna be around much longer. I've gotta go now. I've got a lot of bad guys to kill.
guard		 What's going on?
yorgi		That was for Anders.
xander		Don't forget goatee boy. I greased him up on the diamond run.
yorgi		Look who we found playing outside.
yorgi		Petra, my sweet dove, do you notice anything strange about X? He looks slightly less than dead.
petra		Yorgi, I thought he was --
yorgi		Do you think I didn't know about you all along? My contacts in the KGB told me you were coming. You show up undercover and, I must admit, you play your part to the hilt. When it's time to be cruel, you are cruel. When it's time to be passionate, you are very very passionate indeed.
yorgi		I could have killed you, but I thought this would be so much more fun. To twist you and use you how I see fit. And to be honest, you went much farther than I ever expected you would for your country.
yorgi		And you. Why do you have such a problem staying away, my friend? Did you miss us that much?
xander		I wanted to get the hell out of Prague before Silent Night falls.
yorgi		Not bad, man, not bad. You put things together quick. Prague it is.
petra		The Peace conference...
yorgi		Nice place to start, don't you think?
xander		What's the gimmick, Yorgi? That's the part I don't get. You gonna hold the world hostage with your gas bombs? I didn't think you were dumb enough to go with that hack cliche.
yorgi		You think I'm after money? I told you, my friend. Anarchy. Time for a change. Money is good, but for true freedom you have to get rid of the rules themselves.
xander		So all by yourself, you're going to destroy every government; in the world.
yorgi		Easier than that, buddy. I'll get them to destroy each other. You kill an entire Peace conference, someone is going to have to pay. Then our friend Ahab continues down the river to the ocean and begins his world tour. London, Cairo, Beijing... Pretty soon everyone's involved. These guys bomb those guys, those guys invade these guys. Soon the whole world is like your wild West cowboy days. No rules, no law, everybody free to do what they want.
xander		Including rape, pillage, murder.
yorgi		Sure, if that's what you want. Why not? It's all human nature. So we just have to launch our baby and wait for the decline and fall of civilization as we know it.
xander		And here I thought "anarchy" was just something cool to put on a Tshirt.
yorgi		Come on, Xander. You used to stand for something. What happened to you, man? I thought you'd get it.
petra		Don't you see, X? For the betterment of humanity, he's going to start World War Three.
xander		He's a regular humanitarian. And all this time I thought he was just a tool.
yorgi		You both could have been a part of it. You could have ridden with us into a new day, the dawning of a new age of --
xander		Oh just shoot us already. I'm sorry I asked.
yorgi		Screw you too, buddy.
yorgi		Hurry up, kill him!
xander		Hey! We're on your side!
xander		Petra! Tell them something!
xander		How's Ivan?
ivan 2		He is okay.
xander		Thanks for coming, man, you guys were right on time.
ivan 2		We are always on time. Two have escaped, in truck.
petra		Yorgi and Kirill.
xander		Let me guess, they had a big white torpedo with them.
ivan 2		Yes. Your friend, the angry one, he send something for you.
ivan 2		We'll be right behind you.
xander		Did you do your homework?
petra		 If they launch it, I know how to bring it back.
xander		Let's do this.
xander		Where's he headed?
petra		He owns a big industrial complex on the river. He'll launch it from there.
yorgi		 They're coming! Get back there.
xander		You get down! I'll take care of this fool!
petra		No! Don't shoot! He's hiding behind the nerve agent!
xander		Goddamit! He's gonna stop playing around soon and shoot something valuable!
xander		Let's see what my man put together.
xander		Where'd the damn truck go?!
petra		Go to the water, it's that way!
xander		Toadies right behind.
petra		Let me.
petra		Fantastic options.
yorgi		I've got it, go! Cover me!
xander		You okay?
petra		A piece of shrapnel hit me.
xander		I'm sick of that guy. Let's stop playing nice.
kirill		What are you doing!
xander		I guess the surgeon general was right.
petra		He's shut out the communication circuit!
xander		You can't talk to it?
petra		No, it's like a safety. We are going to have to access the manual controls.
xander		A manual control on a moving torpedo. This day keeps getting better and better.
xander		Radio Ivan! Tell him what's going down! Have them evacuate downtown!
petra		It's running three meters down. Twenty knots.
xander		It has to surface to release the nerve agent, right?
petra		By then it's too late! The only way to safely dispose of the nerve agent is in deep water! The chemicals will break down and dissipate!
xander		Use your grenades! Maybe we can blow it up underwater!
petra		There it is! Hold it steady!
xander		Petra!
petra		Xander! It's coming up!
yorgi		This is going to be exciting, buddy! Front row seats to the apocalypse! Come on, sing with me!  "I am an Antichrist / I am an anarchist / I... wan-na be... Anarchy!"
xander		No you don't.
gibbons		Thought you bought the farm down there, X. Glad as hell to see you.
xander		I'm pretty happy to see me too. So are you done with me yet?
gibbons		You've kept up your end of the bargain, I'll do the same. But you really should consider staying on, you make a decent agent.
xander		But I hate cops, remember? Except for her.
gibbons		Cut the crap, X, I saw you down there. You're a hero. Don't be afraid to join the good guys.
xander		Who says you're the good guys?
gibbons		You know what they say, the only way to change the system is from the inside.
xander		Oh yeah? Why don't we start by taking this thing off my ankle? The poison needles?
gibbons		On come on, X. Did you really think we were that barbaric?
xander		No needles, huh? What about the acid bath?
gibbons		All for show. Just a psychological mind game to get you to do the right thing.
xander		 You're a jerk-off, you know that?
gibbons		We'll be talking soon, you'll see. You'll be back.
petra		I can't believe my mission is finally over. I don't even know what to do with myself.
xander		You can't welch on me now. We had a deal.
petra		 What are you doing?
xander		It's about your next mission. You need to be debriefed.
