****Dialogues from script :Pianist.txt****

the pianist		 by Ronald Harwood  based on the published memoir by Wladyslaw Szpilman
dorota		Mr. Szpilman.
szpilman		Hello.
dorota		I came specially to meet you today. I love your playing, but what a day to choose.
szpilman		Who are you?
dorota		My name's Dorota, I'm Jurek's sister. oh! You're bleeding.
szpilman		It's nothing.
jurek		C'mon, Dorota, you can write him a fan letter later, this isn't the best time, c'mon.
szpilman		 Jurek, why have you been hiding her?
father		What you think, should I take Uncle Szymon's photograph?
mother		Take it, don't take it, take what you like. Can't you see I'm worried sick?
father		He'll come home, he'll be all right.
regina		Mama, Wladek's home.
mother		Thank God - Wladek! You're wounded.
szpilman		It's a little cut, nothing.
mother		I've been worried sick.
henryk		I told her not to worry. You had your papers on you. If you'd been hit by a bomb, they'd have known where to take you.
mother		Henryk, don't say things like that, God forbid, God forbid.
halina		 Papa, Wladek's home.
father		What did I tell you?
szpilman		 What are you doing?
regina		What's it look like we're doing?
szpilman		 They bombed us, we're off the air.
henryk		Warsaw's not the only radio station.
mother		Pack, darling, get your things, pack.
szpilman		Where are we going?
mother		Out of Warsaw.
szpilman		Out of Warsaw. Where?
regina		You haven't heard?
szpilman		Heard what?
regina		Haven't you seen the paper? Where's the paper?
halina		I used it for packing.
regina		 She used it for packing.
father		The government's moved to Lublin.
halina		All able-bodied men must leave the city, go across the river and set up a new line of defence, that's what it said.
father		There's hardly anybody left in this building, only women, the men have gone.
szpilman		And what do you think you'll do while you're setting up a new line of defence? Wander round lugging your suitcases?
mother		Pack, Wladek, there's no time.
szpilman		I'm not going anywhere.
halina		Good! I'm not going anywhere either!
mother		Don't be ridiculous, we've got to keep together.
szpilman		No, no, no, I'm staying put. If I'm going to die, I prefer to die at home.
mother		God forbid!
henryk		Sssh!
henryk		Ssh! I've got something, listen...
radio announcer		... an important announcement. News has just been received through the BBC that Great Britain, having had no reply...  ... next few hours... awaiting latest news...
radio announcer		... but France is expected to make a similar announcement...  ... Poland is no longer alone.
henryk		 Mama, that was a great dinner.
szpilman		It certainly was.
mother		When there's something to celebrate, you've got to make an effort.
father		Here's to Great Britain and France.
father		I told you. Didn't I tell you? All will be well.
father		 Five thousand and three.
mother		Is that all?
father		Yes, five thousand and three zlotys, that's all we've got left.
regina		It's three thousand and three zlotys too much,  'Re: Further restrictions regarding liquid assets: Jews will be allowed to keep a maximum of two thousand zlotys in their homes.'
mother		What are we supposed to do with the rest?
halina		Deposit it in a bank. Blocked account.
henryk		Banks? Who'd be stupid enough to deposit money in a German bank?
regina		We could hide the money here in the window frame.
father		No, no, no. I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll use tried and tested methods. You know what we did in the last war? We made a hole in the table leg and we hid the money in there.
henryk		And suppose they take the table away?
mother		What d'you mean, take the table away?
henryk		The Germans go into Jewish homes and they just take what they want, furniture, valuables, anything.
mother		Do they?
father		Idiot! What would they want with a table?
mother		What on earth are you doing?
halina		There's a good place under the cupboard.
henryk		No, no. Listen, I've been thinking --
szpilman		That makes a change.
henryk		You know what we do? We use psychology.
szpilman		We use what?
henryk		We leave the money and the watch on the table. And we cover it like this.  In full view. The Germans will search high and low, I promise you, they'll never notice it.
szpilman		Of course they'll notice it. But look--  This is a good place for something.
henryk		A good place for what?  He's insane!
szpilman		Just shut up.
father		 My violin?
regina		Quiet! Quiet! Order, please, order!
halina		She's a lawyer, she likes order.
regina		Listen, just listen. Let's come to an agreement. We jam the money in the window frame. The watch we hide under the cupboard. And the chain we put in the violin.
father		Will I still be able to play?
szpilman		Let's find out.
szpilman		Jurek? Wladek Szpilman.
jurek		 Wladek! How are you?
szpilman		Fine, we're fine, thank you, and you?
jurek		 Fine, we're fine in the circumstances. But I can guess what you've called about. There's nothing we can do; they won't reopen the station--
szpilman		 Yes, I know, but Jurek, Jurek...
jurek		 ...not even music, nothing, no radios for the Poles. But I'm sure you'll find work, Wladek, a pianist like you.
szpilman		Maybe, maybe not, but, Jurek, don't be offended, I didn't call to discuss my future career.
dorota		I nagged Jurek for weeks and weeks. And at last he gave in and said, 'All right, come with me tomorrow,' and so I came and they bombed the station.
szpilman		You know something? Meeting you like that was absolutely wonderful.
dorota		Really?
szpilman		Yes!  It was...it was unforgettable.
dorota		I've always loved your playing, Mr. Szpilman.
szpilman		Wladek, please.
dorota		No one plays Chopin like you.
szpilman		I could accompany you, me on the piano, you on the cello.
dorota		Oh, Mr Szpilman, you're quite... quite wonderful.
szpilman		Wladek, please.
father		 must be one centimetre. Jews who do not respect this decree will be severely punished. Governor of Warsaw District, Dr. Fischer.'
henryk		I won't wear it.
regina		won't wear it. I'm not going to be branded.
szpilman		 Let me see this.
father		Doesn't it say we have to provide these armbands ourselves? Where will we get them?
henryk		We're not going to get them. We're not going to wear them!
german officer		 You!
german officer		Why didn't you bow?
father		 I'm sorry I...
german officer		 You are forbidden to walk on the pavement. Walk in the gutter!
halina		Have you seen this?
szpilman		 What, I'm working, what?
szpilman's voice		What is it?
halina's voice		That's where they're going to put us.
szpilman's voice		What d'you mean, put us?
halina		'By order of the Governor of the Warsaw District, Dr. Fischer, concerning the establishment of the Jewish District in Warsaw. There will be created a Jewish District in which all Jews living in Warsaw or moving to Warsaw will have to reside."  And look here: 'Jews living outside of the prescribed area will have to move to the Jewish district by 31st of
szpilman		But...they won't get all of us... we'll...it's too small...there's four hundred thousand of us in Warsaw!
henryk		No. Three hundred and sixty thousand, so it'll be easy.
halina		Mama, what is it?
mother		Twenty zlotys. That's all we've got left. What can I buy with twenty zlotys?  I'm sick of cooking potatoes, potatoes, potatoes.
mr lipa		That's the price. That's what I'm offering. And my advice is to accept. You won't get more from anyone else.
regina		But...but it's a Steinway, Mr Lipa...
mr lipa		Two thousand. My advice is to take it. What you going to do when you're hungry? Eat the piano?
henryk		Get out! You're a thieving bastard, we don't want your money, get out! We'd rather give it away! Get out!
mr lipa		 Hey! Hey! What's the matter with you? Haven't you eaten today, what you suffering from? Hey!
regina		 Henryk, stop it, leave him alone.
mr lipa		 You people are crazy! I'm doing you a favour, two thousand, and I'm paying for the removal, I'm not even charging for the removal.
mr lipa		You haven't eaten today, you're crazy...
szpilman		 Take it.
szpilman		Dorota!
dorota		I didn't want to come, I didn't want to see all this, but I couldn't stop myself.
szpilman		How are you doing?
dorota		Fine, no, not really, they arrested my cousin, but Jurek says they'll let him out.  This is disgraceful.
szpilman		Don't worry, it won't last long.
dorota		That's what I said, it's so - it's too absurd!
szpilman		I'll see you...soon.
father		To tell you the truth, I thought it would be worse.
szpilman		How will we sleep?
mother		I'll sleep with the girls in the kitchen. You, Henrykc and Papa in here.
halina		 Look! Come and look!
szpilman		You sell anything?
henryk		Just one. Dostoevsky. The Idiot. Three zlotys.
szpilman		That's better than yesterday.
henryk		Three lousy zlotys. And there are people here making millions.
szpilman		I know.
henryk		You don't know, believe me. They bribe the guards. The guards turn a blind eye. They're bringing in cartloads, food, tobacco, liquor, French cosmetics, and the poor are dying all around them and they don't give a damn.
szpilman		I'm afraid not.
henryk		Sometimes I wish I could go mad.
henryk		Don't worry about it, they're about to build a bridge, haven't you heard?
soldiers		Faster! Go on, faster! Dance!
soldiers		Dance! Dance!
mother		Good, they're here. Yitzchak Heller's been waiting for you, Henryk.
henryk		What's this about?
mother		Sit down, have tea, I'll start lunch when the girls get back.
henryk		So, what are you doing here?
father		He brought cakes.
father		His father's back in the jewellery business and doing well, isn't that so, Yitzchak? Amazing. Jewellery.
heller		We're recruiting.
henryk		Who's recruiting?
heller		Don't be clever with me, Henryk. I've come here as a friend. They're bringing Jews in from all over the country. Soon there'll be half a million people in the ghetto. We need more Jewish police...
henryk		 Oh? More Jewish police? You mean you want me to wear a cap like yours, beat up Jews with my truncheon and catch the Gestapo spirit. I see!
heller		 Someone's got to do it, Henryk.
henryk		But why me? I thought you only recruited boys with rich fathers. Look at my father, look at us, I mean...
heller		 Yes, I'm looking at you and that's why I'm here. Your whole family can have a better life. You want to go on struggling for survival, selling books on the street?
henryk		 Yes, please.
heller		 I'm doing you people a favour. And what about you, Wladek? You're a great pianist. And we've got an excellent police jazz band. They'd welcome you with open arms. Join us. You've got no work...
szpilman		Thank you. But I've got work.
benek		 I'm sorry, Mr Wladek, he wants you to stop.
szpilman		 Who wants me to stop?
jehuda		I always say look on the bright side. You're in the small ghetto, intellectuals, professional people, you're better off than us. Here, in the large ghetto, it's a cesspool. But you, you're living in Monte Carlo. You could say you're privileged and that, of course, goes against my principles. Nevertheless...
jehuda		Ah, here. Today's news from the other side.
szpilman		You're amazing, Jehuda.
jehuda		No, I'm a socialist. I have brothers everywhere. They bring me news and food. We care about our fellow human beings. Workers of the world unite.
szpilman		So, what's the news?
jehuda		 The Germans are advancing on Kharkhov.
szpilman		I don't know why I come here every evening, it's always such bad news.
jehuda		Bad news, you crazy? You have no world view, Wladek, that's your trouble. The news couldn't be better. The moment Hitler invaded Russia, I knew we'd be all right. Remember Napoleon. Same business. The Germans will freeze to death, please God.
szpilman		Jehuda, give me something to do.
jehuda		You're an artist, Wladek, you keep people's spirits up. You do enough.
szpilman		But I want to help, I want to.
jehuda		You're too well known, Wladek. And you know what? You musicians don't make good conspirators. You're too...too musical.
szpilman		There are notices going up. The city's to be cleansed of undesirables.
jehuda		There are always notices going up.
majorek		Hello, Symche, Dolek, Mrs Zyskind, Jehuda. Working hard?
jehuda		Majorek, this is the greatest pianist in Poland, maybe in the whole world. Wladyslaw Szpilman. Meet Majorek.
majorek		 I know your name. I've never heard you play.
jehuda		Majorek used to be in the army. Brilliant man. He's got a mind like a searchlight. The only thing I've got against him is he's not a socialist.  You see these, Wladek?  You know how many copies we print of our newspaper?
jehuda		Five hundred. You know how many people on average read one copy? Twenty.  That makes ten thousand readers. These will start the uprising. Majorek hides them in his underpants. And leaves them in toilets.
szpilman		Toilets?
majorek		As many toilets as I can find. Germans never go into Jewish toilets. They're too clean for them.
mother		And, please, tonight, for once, I don't want anything bad talked about. Let's enjoy our meal.
henryk		Okay, then I'll tell you something funny. You know who I mean by Dr. Raszeja.
regina		The surgeon?
henryk		The surgeon. Well, for some reason, don't ask me why, the Germans allowed him into the ghetto to perform an operation...
halina		On a Jew? They allowed a Pole to come in to operate on a Jew?
henryk		He got a pass, that's all I know. Anyway, he puts the patient to sleep and starts the operation. He'd just made the first incision when the SS burst in, shoot the patient lying on the table, and then shoot Dr. Raszeja and everybody else who was there. Isn't that a laugh? The patient didn't feel a thing, he was anaesthetised -
mother		Henryk, I said nothing bad.
henryk		What's the matter with you all? Have you lost your sense of humour?
szpilman		It's not funny.
henryk		Well, you know what's funny? You're funny with that ridiculous tie.
szpilman		What are you talking about, my tie? What's my tie got to do with anything? I need the tie for my work.
mother		Boys, boys...
henryk		Your work, yes, playing the piano for all the parasites in the ghetto, they don't give a damn about people's sufferings, they don't even notice what's going on around them!
father		I blame the Americans.
szpilman		For what? For my tie?
father		American Jews, and there's lots of them, what have they done for us? What do they think they're doing? People here are dying, haven't got a bite to eat. The Jewish bankers over there should be persuading America to declare war on Germany!
nco		 Stand up!
nco		Stand up!
regina		 Be quiet, Mama, for God's sake, be quiet!
szpilman		What's happened?
halina		 Oh my God, it's terrible, you've got to do something, oh my God!
szpilman		 Calm down, what, what is it?
halina		They're hunting people on the streets. They've picked up Henryk.
szpilman		I'm afraid not.
szpilman		 What's happening?
szpilman		 Yitzchak!
szpilman		Yitzchak!
szpilman		Here, please! Wladek Szpilman!
szpilman		Henryk's in there.
heller		I haven't seen him.
szpilman		Believe me, they've picked him up.
heller		Tough luck.
szpilman		Can you help?
heller		Oh, you need me now, yes, now you need me!
szpilman		Can you help us?
heller		It costs.
szpilman		I've no money.
heller		Then there's nothing I can do. He should've joined us when I gave him the chance..
szpilman		Yitzchak, they told me you had influence.
heller		Who told you?
szpilman		People I know. They said you're an important man.
poor woman		 A snatcher! Help me, a snatcher!
rubinstein's voice		Boys, keep your peckers up! And girls, keep your legs crossed!
rubinstein		Don't let 'em get you down -
rubinstein		Bandits! Crooks!  Thieves!
rubinstein		If that means good day, I'm your man, you gangsters, robbers, pirates!
rubinstein		Ich bin meshuge, you bandit!
henryk		 You go to Heller, did I ask you to talk to him?
szpilman		You're out, aren't you?
henryk		Did you beg, did you grovel to that piece of shit, that cockroach?
szpilman		I didn't grovel, I asked him to help.
henryk		What did you pay him?
szpilman		Pay him? With what? With what could I pay him? Every zloty I earn we spend on food!
henryk		I can look after myself!
szpilman		They were taking you away.
henryk		It's nothing to do with you. It's me they wanted, not you. Why do you interfere in other people's business?
szpilman		You're mad, that's your trouble, you're mad.
henryk		That's also my business.
szpilman		What's the matter? Are you sick?
henryk		Hungry.
szpilman		What's that mean, no employment certificate?
henryk		You have to have an employment certificate to work for one of the German firms in the ghetto, otherwise...
szpilman		Otherwise what?
henryk		You'll be deported.
benek		So the rumours were true...
henryk		They're going to resettle us. Send us to labour camps. In the east. And they're closing the small ghetto.
jehuda		Wladek!
jehuda		I thought you'd be off on tour, playing London, Paris, New York?
szpilman		 Not this week.
jehuda		I have to say you look terrible. What's the trouble?
szpilman		You've heard the rumours they're going to resettle us in the East?
jehuda		 Rumours, rumours, you take it all too much to heart, Wladek.
szpilman		I've been trying to get a certificate of employment for my father. I've managed to get certificates for me and the rest of the family but I need one more for my father. I've been trying all the firms, the shops...
jehuda		Why didn't you come to me?
szpilman		I didn't know you were in the certificate business.
jehuda		I'm not, but Majorek is.
szpilman		 Can you help? I've no money...
jehuda		Please, don't insult us.  Can you do something for him?
majorek		Be at the Schultz Workshop, tomorrow, four o'clock.
jehuda		You see what a wonderful piece of luck you've had today? That's die historical imperative in action and that's why I always say, look on...
szpilman		 ...the bright side, yes, I know.
father		 Thank you.
schultz		 My pleasure. It won't help you anyway.
father		At least we've got work in the ghetto. At least we're still together.
nco		Out! Assemble in the yard!
szpilman		We're employed here, we've got certificates -
nco		The rest of you get dressed then report back here. Bring your belongings. Fifteen kilos only.
szpilman		I'm sorry, I did my best, I thought the certificates would save us all.
mother		Stop it, Wladek.
regina		Let's just hope that Henryk and Halina will be better off -
regina		 Where will we be going?
szpilman		Let's sit over there.
father		I can hear you.
father		Dr. Ehrlich, not so loud!
grun		Why you so sure they're sending us to our death?
father		Dr. Ehrlich, what do you want me to do? You want me to fight?
grun		To fight you need organisation, plans, guns!
father		He's right. What d'you think I can do? Fight them with my violin bow?
grun		The Germans would never squander a huge labour force like this. They're sending us to a labour camp.
mother		Henryk!
regina		 Oh my God!
mother		Halina! Henryk!
halina		We heard you were here...we...didn't want...we...we wanted to be with you.
szpilman		 Stupid, stupid!
halina		She's getting on my nerves. What did she do, for God's sake?
grun		 She smothered her baby.
grun		They'd prepared a hiding place and so, of course, they went there. But the baby cried just as the police came. She smothered the cries with her hands. The baby died. A policeman heard the death rattle. He found where they were hiding.
szpilman		What are you reading?
henryk		 'If you prick us, do we not bleed? If you tickle us, do we not laugh? If you poison us, do we not die? And if you wrong us, shall we not revenge?'
szpilman		Very appropriate.
henryk		 Yes, that's why I brought it.
henryk		Idiot. What's he think he's going to do with the money?
father		How much for a caramel?
father		What? For one caramel? What d'you think you're going to do with the money?
father		 Have we got twenty between us?
szpilman		Halina?
halina		What?
szpilman		Funny time to say this.
halina		What?
szpilman		wish I knew you better.
halina		 Thanks.
a voice		Szpilman! Szpilman!
szpilman		 Papa!
szpilman		 Papa! Mama! Halina!
heller		What do you think you're doing, Szpilman? I've saved your life! Now, go on, save yourself!
heller		Don't run!
jewish policeman		Well, off they go for meltdown!
benek		 Why are you here, Mr. Wladek?
szpilman		It's like this... I...we...all of them.
benek		Perhaps they're lucky. The quicker the better.  I've bribed a policeman. He'll come when it's over.
szpilman		 My God. I haven't been outside for - it must be two years.
fellow worker		 Don't get over-excited.
dealers		Gold, buy gold! Dollars! Roubles!
benek		Someone you know?
szpilman		Yes.
benek		A beauty. Who is she?
szpilman		A singer. Her husband's an actor. I knew them well. Good people. I'd like to talk to her.
benek		 Don't forget, Mr. Wladek, they hang them for helping Jews.
szpilman		How long have you been here?
majorek		Since last night. I was pleased to see you.
majorek		They're going to start the final resettlement now. We know what it means. We sent someone out. Zygmunt. A good man. His orders were to follow the trains out of Warsaw. He got to Sokolow. A local railwayman told him the tracks are divided, one branch leading to Treblinka. He said every day freight trains carrying people from Warsaw forked to Treblinka and returned empty. No transports of food are ever seen on that line. And civilians are forbidden to approach the Treblinka station. They're exterminating us. Won't take them long. We're sixty thousand left. Out of half a million. Mostly young people. And this time we're going to fight. We're in good shape. We're organised. We're prepared.
szpilman		If you need help...
bartczak		Hope you played the piano better than you carry bricks.
polish workman		He won't last long if he goes on like this.
bartczak		I'll see if I can get him something better.
worker		 Trouble.
ss captain		 I have important and good news for you. There are rumours circulating that resettlement measures are again going to be taken.
ss captain		 I want to assure you personally that no such measures will be taken now or in the future. Posters will be going up also to this effect. As proof of our good will, we want you to select a delegate, who will be permitted to go into town once a day to buy, on each worker's behalf, five kilos of potatoes and one loaf of bread, which you will be allowed to take back into the ghetto. Now, why would we do that j if we meant to resettle you?
ss captain		 You can do good business on what you don't eat. Isn't that what you Jews are best at? Making 'geld'?
ss captain		 Carry on.
majorek		 The smaller one. At the bottom.
szpilman		 Majorek!
szpilman		Have a favour to ask. I want to get out of here.
majorek		It's easy to get out, it's how you survive on the other side that's hard.
szpilman		I know. But last summer, I worked for a day in Zelazna Brama Square. I saw someone I knew. A singer. Her husband's an actor. They're old friends.  I've written their names down. And their address. If they're still there. Janina Godlewska and Andrzej Bogucki. Good people. Majorek, you go into the town every day. Would you try and make contact? Ask them if they'd help me get out of here?
ss lieutenant		Any fucking plaster?
szpilman		 We're allowed to take food into the ghetto. Five kilos of potatoes and a...
ss lieutenant		Open it.
szpilman		It's only potatoes and bread.
ss lieutenant		Fuck that, you're lying, I can smell it. Open it.
ss lieutenant		You're all the same. Give a Jew a little finger, he takes the whole hand.
ss lieutenant		You lie to me again and I'll shoot you personally.
majorek		I tried your friends. They're not at that address any more.  But.
szpilman		You made contact?
majorek		Be ready to leave in two days' time. Same place as last night.
szpilman		Oh, shit!
szpilman		 No. Why?
all workers		 Hey, ranks unite And follow the White Eagle! Stand up and fight Our mortal enemy. Riflemen, hey! Let's give them fire and brimstone. We'll blow away The yoke of slavery. Punish and rout The rapists of our nation. We'll smash the knout To save our dignity. Soon we'll be proud Of our liberation -
german voices		Get on with it and fall in! Fall in!
bogucki		We haven't much time.
bogucki		You must hurry.
bogucki		We're going to have to keep moving you. The Germans are hunting down indiscriminately now. Jews, non- Jews, anybody, everybody.  See if these fit. And, Wladek, you'd better shave. Use my razor. In the cabinet.
szpilman		Thank you, I don't.
bogucki		You'll be looked after by Mr Gebczynski. He's on the other side of town. You'll stay there tonight. Then we'll find you somewhere else.
janina		I'll bring you food.
bogucki		Let's go.
gebczynski		I'll show you where you're going to sleep.
gebczynski		It's not going to be very comfortable.
szpilman		I'll be fine.
gebczynski		You'll have to stay here until tomorrow afternoon.
gebczynski		We've got a flat for you. Near the ghetto wall. But it's safe.
gebczynski		 Go as near to the front as possible, to the German section.
gebczynski		Must feel better this side of the wall.
szpilman		Yes, but sometimes I'm still not sure which side of the wall I'm on.
gebczynski		Here.
gebczynski		I'll come again. And Janina Bogucki will visit twice a week. Bring more food. See how you are.
gebczynski		Yes, now, this is very important. In case of emergency, I mean emergency, go to this address.
kitten's voice		 Puppydog, what d'you mean, you forgot?
puppydog's voice		What d'you think I mean, Kitten? I forgot, that's what I mean.
kitten's voice		You know what? You treat me like dirt!
puppydog's voice		I treat you like dirt because you are dirt.
kitten's voice		Pig!
puppydog's voice		Cow!
kitten's voice		Pig!
puppydog's voice		Bitch!
kitten's voice		Dirty pig!
puppydog's voice		You're a dirty pig!
kitten's voice		Takes one to know one! Pig!
puppydog's voice		You play like an angel, Kitten.
kitten's voice		If I play like an angel, why don't you listen?
puppydog's voice		I was listening, Kitten.
kitten's voice		Liar, you fell asleep. Pig!
puppydog's voice		 Kitten, let me in.
janina		wanted to come earlier but...
szpilman		Thank you.
janina		No one thought they'd hold out so long.
szpilman		should never have come out. I should've stayed there, fought with them.
janina		 Wladek, stop that. It's over now. Just be proud it happened. My God, did they put up a fight.
szpilman		Yes, so did the Germans.
janina		They're in shock. They didn't expect it. Nobody expected it. Jews fighting back? Who'd have thought?
szpilman		Yes, but what good did it do?
janina		 What good? Wladek, I'm surprised at you. They died with  dignity, that's what good it did. And you know something else?  Now the Poles will rise. We're ready. We'll fight, too. You'll see.
gebczynski		Get your things together, you have to leave!
szpilman		What's happened?
gebczynski		I'm on the run!
szpilman		What's happened?
gebczynski		The Gestapo found our weapons. They've arrested Janina and Andrzej. They're bound to find out about this place, too - you must get away at once.
szpilman		Where do you want me to go?  Look at me. No, no, I'm not leaving. Can't I take my chances here?
gebczynski		That's your decision.  But when they storm the flat, throw yourself out of die window - don't let them get you alive. I have poison on me, they won't get me alive either!
kitty's voice		Open this door at once, or we'll call the police!
kitty		Are you from the flat in there? You're not registered.
szpilman		It belongs to a friend of mine. I came to visit but I must have just missed him.
kitty		 Have you got your identity card? Let me see your identity card!
kitty		I want to see your identity card!
kitty		 He's a Jew! He's a Jew! Stop the Jew! Don't let him out!
woman's voice		 Yes?
szpilman		Mr Gebczynski sent me.
dorota		 Wladyslaw Szpilman.
szpilman		Dorota.
dorota		Come in! come in!
dorota		Sit.
szpilman		I'm sorry - I was given this address. I'm looking for a Mr--  -- a Mr Dzikiewicz.
dorota		 Michal Dzikiewicz. He's my husband.
szpilman		I need help.
dorota		He'll be back before curfew.
szpilman		I've been in hiding. I need somewhere to stay.
dorota		He'll be here soon.
szpilman		How long have you been married?
dorota		Just over a year.
szpilman		And how's Yurek?
dorota		Dead.
szpilman		When's your baby due?
dorota		Christmas.  This is not a good time to have children. But then...
dorota		This is my husband. Wladyslaw Szpilman. Marek Gebczynski sent him.
michal		Oh, yes. I remember.
szpilman		Mr Gebczynski said to contact you only in an emergency, but...
michal		Don't worry now. We can't move you tonight.
michal		You'll sleep on the sofa.
szpilman		Excuse me, could I have a piece of bread?
michal		Yes, of course, we'll eat.
michal		 You're in a very German area. The building opposite is a hospital, taking in wounded from the Russian front. Next door is the Schutzpolizei. It's the safest place to be. Right in the centre of the lion's den.
michal		I'll be locking you in. No one knows you're here. So keep as quiet as possible.
michal		All well?
szpilman		Thank you.
michal		This is Antek Szalas.
michal		He's going to look after you. I've given him a second key. He'll bring you food. See that you're all right. He's with the underground, a good man.
szalas		You don't remember me, Mr. Szpilman?
szpilman		No, I don't think so?
szalas		Warsaw Radio. I was a technician. I saw you almost every day.
szpilman		Sorry, I don't remember.
szalas		Doesn't matter. You've nothing to worry about. I'll visit often.
michal		And you'll be pleased to hear the Allies are bombing Germany night after night - Cologne, Hamburg, Berlin.
szalas		And the Russians are really giving them hell. It's the beginning of the end.
michal		Let's hope so. I don't know when I'll see you again?
szalas		Still alive then, are you? Here. Sausage. Bread.
szpilman		How long is this meant to last?
szpilman		think I've got jaundice.
szalas		You don't want to worry about that. My grandfather was jilted by his girl friend when he got jaundice.  In my opinion, jaundice is not very serious. Drink up.
szpilman		Why didn't you come sooner? It's been over two weeks.
szalas		Problems. Money. I've got to raise money to buy the food. I need things to sell, it' s not easy.
szpilman		Sell this. Food's more important than time.
szalas		Oh, yes. I meant to tell you. The Allies have landed in France. The Russians'll be here soon. They'll beat the shit out of the Germans. Any day now.
dorota		Wladek? Wladek!  I knew it, I knew this would happen!
dorota		I'm going to get a doctor.
michal		You can't, it's too dangerous.
dorota		I'll get Dr Luczak, we can trust him.
michal		Dorota, don't be ridiculous, he's a pediatrician.
dorota		He's still a doctor.
michal		No, you stay, I'll go.
dorota		We came to say goodbye. We're going to stay with my mother in Otwock.The baby's already there. It's safer. There's talk that the uprising will begin any day now.
dorota		That man Szalas should be shot. He's been collecting money on your behalf all over Warsaw. Apparently, people gave generously. So he collected a tidy sum. He told us he was visiting you daily.
dorota		Oh God!
doctor		Acute inflammation of the gall bladder. Liver the size of a football. But he'll live. I'll try to get hold of some levulose, but it's not easy.
dorota		Can you visit him again?
doctor		Who knows?
szpilman		Doctor, thank you.
doctor		Don't speak. Rest.
dorota		Michal brought food. I'll prepare something now for you, then we must go.
voices		 Where? Where? Just get out! Everywhere! Get out into the street!
german voice		Fourth floor, Fischke!
german voice		At the double, Fischke!
szpilman		 I was... I was trying to open this tin.
szpilman		I am... I was a pianist.
szpilman		 In the attic.
szpilman		Please.
szpilman		What's all that gunfire?
szpilman		What's happening?
szpilman		 Are the Russians here?
szpilman		I don't know how to thank you.
szpilman		What about you?
szpilman		I'll play the piano again. On Polish radio.
szpilman		Szpilman.
loudspeaker voice		...German army! Polish soil liberated!  Official!
the woman		German! German!
szpilman		 Stop, for God's sake, I beg you, I'm Polish!
szpilman		Don't shoot! I'm Polish!
szpilman		 Don't shoot! I'm Polish! Please, please! I'm Polish!
szpilman		I'm cold.
lednicki		Murderers! Assassins!  Look at you now! You took everything I had! Me, a musician!  You took my violin! You took my soul!
lednicki		Yes, of course, I know Szpilman.
russian guard		 Hey! No talking to the prisoners. Get away from there!
lednicki		 What's your name?
lednicki		What?
lednicki		It was here, I'm certain of it.
szpilman		It's not here now.
lednicki		I shouted abuse at them, I'm not proud of it, but that's what I did, and, I'm certain, I stood where you are now. There was barbed wire, and this German came up to me.
szpilman		You didn't catch his name.
lednicki		No. I'll ask at the factory. They may know something.
****Dialogues from script :Piano.txt****

seamen		Hold still you smutt! Blast the boat! Look up! Look up! Lay to! Lay to. Up with it you buggerers, hold hard! Damn me won't you hold?! Etc.
seamen		It's a little rough out there. Could be they can't get through to you in this weather. Maybe they'll come over land.
seamen		Have you things for shelter?
seamen		What things have you?
flora		She says, "thank you".
seamen		Does your mother prefer to come on with us to Nelson?
flora		She says, No. She says she'd rather be boiled alive by natives than get back in your tub.
seamen		 You be damn fortuned I don't smack your puppy gob, missy. Damn lucky.
flora		 Mother... I'm thinking
baines		Are we stopping?... Do you want to stop?
baines		Shall we stop?
baines		Tai hoa! Me tatari tatou .., me tutatou I konei.  SUBTITLED
stewart		We must get on.
tame		Aue tepatupsiarehe!  SUBTITLED
stewart		Miss McGrath, Alisdair Stewart. You'll have to wake yourself. I've got men here to carry your things.
stewart		I see you have a good many boxes, I'd like to know what is in each.
stewart		CAN - YOU - HEAR - ME?
stewart		Well that is good, yes that is good, good.
stewart		What's in here?
stewart		Ohh, yes so it is, written there, crockery.
stewart		And this one?
stewart		You're small. I never thought you'd be small.
stewart		What's here?
stewart		What's in here then, lead?
flora		 It's my mother's piano.
stewart		A piano?
stewart		Tell them to carry in pairs.
stewart		What do you think?
baines		She looks tired.
stewart		She's stunted, that's one thing.
baines		Anei nga pouaka - ko era e toro. Me era e raa.  UNSUBTITLED
hone		E Hoal
stewart		Oh no, it can't come now.
flora		It must come.
flora		She wants it to come.
stewart		Yes and so do I, but there are too few of us here to carry it. TOO - HEAVY
stewart		Do you mean you don't want your kitchenware or your clothes? Is that what you mean?
flora		We can't leave the piano
stewart		Let us not discuss this further. I am very pleased....
flora		Mother wants to know if they could come back directly for it?
flora		After they have taken the other things?
pito		Kei Riri a te raho Maroke. 
stewart		I suggest you prepare for a difficult journey. The bush will tear clothes and the mud is deep in places.
stewart		 What are they doing? We don't have time for that.
baines		Mr. Stewart asked if I might show you to the path.  ... May I carry something?
baines		aha tenei?  SUBTITLED
hone		E hinga te Koroua ra B Pitama i konci. Kare noa Kia hikina te tapu.  UNSUBTITLED
stewart		What's he say?
baines		Someone died here. It's tapu.
stewart		But we came down this way didn't we? I'm sure we did.
hone		E Tarna heke atu ki ram - tiro his atu. Rapuhia mai he huarahi re!  UNSUBTITLED
tipi		'cia tupato he ana taniwba ke raro na.  SUBTITLED
hotu		'Ca, rongo koe i te haunga a tans tutae i te tuatahi.  UNSUBTITLED
stewart		They want more money. They are trying to make two days out of it?
baines		No, no they know another track - to the side of this.
aunt morag		Watch your feet!
nessie		Watch your feet!
aunt morag		Careful! Watch his hand.
nessie		Watch his hand
aunt morag		Stop it!
aunt morag		 We'll bring out the bride.
aunt morag		LIFT - YOUR - ARM - UP - DEAR.
flora		My REAL father was a famous German composer
aunt morag		Ohh the tag is broken.
flora		 .... They met when my mother was an opera singer... in Luxemburg...
flora		Why?
flora		I want to be in the photograph.
stewart		Beautiful.
aunt morag		I thought she met your father in Luxemburg.
flora		Well, yes, in Austria where be conducted the Royal Orchestra.
aunt morag		 And where did they get married?
flora		 In an enormous forest, with real fairies as bridesmaids each holding a little elf's hand.
flora		No, I tell a lie, it was in a small country church, near the mountains
aunt morag		Which mountains are those dear?
flora		The Alps.
aunt morag		Ohhh I've never been there. 
flora		Mother used to sing the songs in German and her voice would echo across the valleys
aunt morag		Oh what happened?
flora		One day when my mother and father were singing together in the forest, a great storm blew up out of nowhere. But so passionate was their singing that they did not notice, nor did they stop as the rain began to fall and when their voices rose for the final bars of the duet a great bolt of lightening came out of the sky and struck my father so that he lit up like a torch... And at the same moment my father was struck dead my mother was struck dumb! She- never-spoke-another-word.
aunt morag		Ohhh ... dear. Not another word From the shock, yes it would be.
aunt morag		Terrible.  Terrible
stewart		I shall be gone for some days. There is some Maori land I want and may buy very reasonably.  I am hoping you will use the time to settle in, and, in some ways we may start again
stewart		All right?
baines		I'm not able to read.
flora		Please take us to the beach where we landed.
baines		I'm sorry, I can't do that.  Goodbye
baines		I - can't - take - you there. I can't do it.
stewart		Hello, then.
flora		Hello.
nessie		It will be very dramatic.
stewart		 What would you think if someone played a kitchen table like it were a piano?
aunt morag		Like it were a piano?
stewart		It's strange isn't it? I mean it's not a piano, it doesn't make any sound.
aunt morag		 Biscuits.' No, no sound.
stewart		I knew she was mute, but now I'm thinking it's more than that. I'm wondering if she's not brain affected.
aunt morag		No sound at all?
stewart		No, it was a table.
aunt morag		 Well, she was very violent with the gown. She tore off a chunk of lace. if hadn't been there I'd have sworn she'd used her teeth
nessie		and wiped her feet an it.
stewart		Well it has not yet come to anything. Just a concern.
aunt morag		Oh, yes, yes of course, a concern.
stewart		There is something to be said for silence
aunt morag		Oh indeed. Cotton'.
stewart		  And with time she will, I'm sure, become affectionate.
aunt morag		Certainly, there is nothing so easy to like as a pet and they are quite silent.
baines		Those 80 acres, that cross the stream, what do you think of them?
stewart		On your property?
baines		Yes
stewart		Good, flatish land with reliable water, why? I don't have money. What are you about?
baines		I'd like to make a swap.
stewart		What for?
baines		The piano.
stewart		The piano on the beach? Ada's piano?
stewart		It's not marshy is it?
baines		No.
stewart		You'd have to organise it up here.
baines		Yes, I thought that.
stewart		Well Baines the music lover, I never would have known. Hidden talents George.
baines		I'll have to get lessons. It wouldn't be much use without them.
stewart		Yes, I suppose you would.
stewart		Well Ada can play.
stewart		I have it in a letter she plays well. She's been playing since
stewart		I have got us some excellent land. Baines has taken some queer idea to have a piano, and you are to give him lessons. Have you taught before?
flora		What on?
stewart		On your piano, that is the swap.
stewart		What does she say?
flora		She says it's her piano, and she won't have him touch it. He's an oaf, he can't read, he's ignorant.
stewart		He wants to improve himself... and you will be able to play on it ...  Teach him to look after it.
stewart		 You can't go on like this, we are a family now, all of us make sacrifices and so will you. You will teach him. I shall see to that!
stewart		I'd try children's tunes, nothing more complicated
stewart		Just be encouraging no one expects him to be good.
stewart		 It looks good, very nice looking thing. Well . I wish you luck. The girls are very excited about the lessons.
stewart		Flora will explain anything Ada says. They talk through their fingers, you can't believe what they say with just their hands.
flora		My mother wants to see your hands. Hold them out.
flora		You have to wash them.
baines		They are washed.
flora		Wash them again.
baines		The marks do not come out. They are scars and hardened skin.
flora		There's no tune left in the piano so she can't teach you.
blind man		Ah, a Broadbent. A fine instrument. I've not come across one here, or in the Islands where I have tuned some 200. Yes, they like their pianos there.
baines		I can't play.
blind man		You don't play?
baines		No, I can't.
blind man		Well my dear Miss Broadbent, tuned, but silent.
flora		Mother says she can't stand to teach piano with it all out or tune. So I'm to do scales.
flora		I hope you've scrubbed your hands.
flora		What's out there?
flora		You have to watch me where I put my fingers.
flora		It's in tune.
flora		 I was teaching.
flora		She wants to see what you can do.
baines		I'd rather not play. I want to listen and learn that way.
flora		Everyone has to practice.
baines		I just want to listen.
flora		What do you want to hear?
baines		Anything.
flora		Tell me about my real father.
flora		What happened? Why didn't you get married?
stewart		Shall I kiss you goodnight?
baines		Do you know how to bargain, nod if you do.
baines		You see I'd like us to make a deal. There's things I want to do while you stay. If you let me you can earn it back.
baines		Your dress?
baines		Play... Keep playing.
hira		I got the good wife for you Peini. She pray good. Clean. Read Bible. You sleep her Peini. She chief daughter.
baines		No, no bible readers.
hira		Why? We need you pakeha clever. You sleep her.
baines		I have a wife.
tahu		 I give her clever eb Peini. Hallelujah!
hira		Don't answer, he low born. Jun look at him, mongrel. Your wife where she?
baines		She lives her own life in New Jersey, America.
hira		You have spare wife here Peini. You get rnana for that. Our chief four wives.
hira		Who do that? It not finish, that no good Peini. You finish!
flora		 I want to speak to my mother
aunt morag		 Which sign is the word rehearsal?
aunt morag		I can't imagine a fate worse than being dumb. Turn around.
nessie		To be deaf?
aunt morag		Oh yes, dear too - TERRIBLE! AWFUL!"'
flora		Actually, to tell you the whole truth, Mama says most people speak rubbish and it's not worth the listen.
aunt morag		 Well, that is a strong opinion.
flora		Yes, it's unholy.
baines		Lift your skirt,
baines		Higher.
reverend		Nessie, your hand out ... out here, please.
nessie		Oh, no use Mr Stewart, I can't act.
reverend		Nessie, please.
reverend		Look you are being attacked!
reverend		And with the blood ... it will be a good effect:
baines		Undo your dress. This part,  I want to see your arms.
baines		Play.
aunt morag		I hardly need to give one to you, but there you are anyway.
stewart		Wait.
stewart		How are the lessons going? ADA nods enthusiastically. He's getting on all right? ADA nods again Good.
aunt morag		That is good, yes.
aunt morag		Ah well, slowly, slowly
baines		Ada, four keys.
flora		The Holly and the Ivy...
woman		They're bringing in extra seats!
another woman		Oh God, don't pin my hair too high Alfred!
still another		Yes, me too, do it about here ... 
man one		Look who's here, the musical MR BAINES What will we have tonight George, "Twinkle, twinkle?"
another man		'Mary had a little lamb' or a polka, come on George what's it to be?
aunt morag		Mr. Baines, do come and turn pages
baines		I can't read music, I have just begun.
stewart		 Lot of fools. Come on, move up.
reverend		And so the young maid came upon each and all of Bluebeard's missing wives, their severed heads still bleeding, their eyes still crying.
reverend		But who it this?
bluebeard		I am home early my sweet wife ... where art thou?
young wife		Hello husband, what a surprise!
bluebeard		Yes wife, a surprise indeed! So now you know my secret you, the sweetest and youngest or all my wives must be prepared to die.
nihe		 SUBTITLED
young wife		No, no wait!
bluebeard		I shall not wait. Bare your neck.
nihe		Hoki rnai! Hoki rnai!  SUBTITLED
baines		I have been waiting. You are very late.
baines		I don't want you to play. I just want you to sit.
baines		 No, not two keys.
baines		 Two keys then!
maori negotiator		 SUBTITLED
stewart		 What do they say? Are they selling? Offer the blankets for half the land.
stewart		T-w~e-l-v~e.
baines		Te, kawnarna paraikete mo te tahi hawlie 0 te whenna uci.  UNSUBTITLED
stewart		 Offer the guns.
maori negotiator		Kahore atu he kororo. Kahore niaton Kote hake whentia. Engad mate peaks ne.  SUBTITLED
baines		E hoa ma, haria atu ra takit kia Nihe. 
stewart		What do they want it for? They don't cultivate it, burn it back, anything. How do they even know it's theirs?
baines		Yes, why not.
stewart		Ada says you're doing well with the piano?
stewart		I'll have to come and hear you play. what do you play.
baines		Nothing just yet
stewart		No. Well I suppose it takes time.
stewart		Baines can't play a damn thing. Is that right he can't play a thing?
stewart		What's that?
baines		Do what you like. Play what you like.
baines		I want to lie together without clothes on. How many would that be?
baines		Yes, ten keys.
stewart		Never behave like that, never any where. You are greatly shamed and you have shamed those trunks. 
maori women		What o'clock say Mr Stewart? -Ge Tupeka?  -Time for puff puff.
flora		 I know why Mr. Baines can't play the piano.
stewart		You've missed this bit.
flora		She never gives him a turn.
stewart		And when is the next lesson?
flora		Tomorrow.
baines		I am giving the piano back to you. I've had enough.  The arrangement is making you a whore and me wretched. I want you to care for me, but you can't.
hira		 George, can I use this comb?
baines		It's yours, leave, go on go!
stewart		 Stop right there'. This isn't yours  what are you doing with the piano?
flora		He's given it to us.
stewart		 Hah, you're very cunning Ada, but I've seen through you, I'm not going to lose the land this way. Wait here!
hira		George sick, he don't wanna see nobody. You got Tupeka for the Hira?
stewart		I don't think you should have given up the piano. I will make sure you are properly taught, with music written on to sheets and...
baines		I don't want to learn.
stewart		You don't want to learn.
baines		No.
stewart		And what does this do to our bargain? I cannot afford the piano if you mean me to pay.
baines		No, no payment. I have given it back. I don't want it.
stewart		Well, I doubt I want it very much myself.
baines		It was more to your wife that I gave it.
stewart		Well, thank you, I expect she will appreciate it.
hira		You make BIG mistake George. In first place you should swap land for wife. Now look, she gone, you no land, no music box, you got nothing.
stewart		Is it all right? Aren't you going to play something? ADA pulls up a chair and seats herself at the piano. She rubs her hands and places them lightly on the keys, she turns from habit over her left shoulder where STEWART waits crossed armed. Quickly she removes her hands, stands and gestures FLORA to play. FLORA proudly takes ~p the seat, she pulls her lips in trying to control her happiness to say in front of both her mother and STEWART.
flora		What will I play?
stewart		Play a gig.
flora		 Do I know any gigs?
stewart		Play a song then
stewart		 Why won't she play it? We have it back, and she just wanders off!
stewart		Keep playing!
flora		Why? Why can't I?
flora		 I shan't practise and I DON'T CARE!
stewart		 Where's your mother? Where has she gone?
flora		To HELL!
baines		So what brings you here? Did you leave something? I have not found anything.
baines		Ada, I am unhappy because I want you, because my mind has seized on you and thinks of nothing else. This is how I suffer, I am sick with longing. I don't eat, I don't sleep. If you do not want me, if you have come with no feeling for me, then go!
baines		What?  What?  whisper....
baines		Now you are going I am miserable, why is that?  Ada I need to know, what will you do? Will you come again?
baines		Wait! I don't know what you're thinking.  I already miss you. Ada, do you love me?
baines		 Come tomorrow. If you are serious, come tomorrow.
baines		Tomorrow?
flora		Stay still! It's the very worst knots.
flora		Mama STOP IT!
flora		Stop it I feel sick!
flora		 Mumma! Mumma! They are playing your piano!
flora		Here Papa!
flora		You shouldn't have gone up there, should you? I don't like it and nor does Papa. Mama, we can play cards together.
flora		She is asleep, look.
stewart		You are letting the clothes float off... They are floating off.
flora		Mama! Look out!
flora		One, two, three One, two, three
stewart		Ada!
aunt morag		Ohhh, it's so dark, it's like a dank cave.
nessie		Yes, like a cave.
aunt morag		Ohh no, it makes my skin creep!
aunt morag		Alisdair, is it because of our play? Have the natives aggressed you?
nessie		 ... you are quite trapped.
aunt morag		We have just come from George Banes' and they have taken him over. It is no wonder he is leaving, he has got in too deep with the natives. They sit on his floor as proud as Kings, but without a shred of manners.
nessie		 ... without a shred of manners.
aunt morag		He is quite altered, as if they had been trying some native witchcraft on him. Well tomorrow or the day after he will be gone.
stewart		Baines is packing up?
aunt morag		Well he has NOTHING to pack, but he is leaving. And it is just as well; Nessie has foolishly grown an affection for him ... we have had some tears
aunt morag		 STOP IT! STOP!
stewart		 If you leave soon, yes, I am sure of it.
aunt morag		You know I am thinking of the piano. She does not play the piano as we do Nessie.
nessie		 Ohhhhhh!
stewart		I've been hoping you would come.
stewart		I want to touch you Why can't I touch you? Do you like me?
flora		This is going to be Adam's tree and then I'm going to make a serpent to live here, with a very long tongue. .
stewart		 We must both get on. I have decided to trust you to stay here. You will not see Baines?
flora		We're not supposed to visit him'.
flora		The grand old Duke of York. He had ten thousand men etc.
flora		Mumma wanted me to give this to Mr. Baines.
stewart		No!!
mana		Knare e Wainta! Kaare e Wajata! 
stewart		 why? WHY? I trusted you!
stewart		 Do you love him? Do you?! Is it him you love?
flora		No, she says NOOOOOO!!!
flora		 Mother!!
flora		Mama!
flora		 Mama.
stewart		Take this to Baines. Tell him if he ever tries to see her again I'll take off another and another and another!
hira		I worry for us Peini. Pakeha cunning like wind, KNOCK you over, yet you not see it. Some they say, how can pakeha get our land if we won't sell it?"
hira		They wrong Peini. We need guns to hold it.
hira		I worried Feini. What's gonna happen you, you go home, but where we go? We got nowhere to go.
mana		 It is mine. I found it.
baines		 SUBTITLED
mana		 Ncrr! Naaku. Its mine. Me find it
baines		He aha to hiahia? Ask for it? Tobacco?  SUBTITLED
hira		 Gun, ask for his gun!
others		- Nga rarahe 
hira		Go Peini ... Haere atu e Peini.
baines		I'll be back.
baines		Can you read?
tree girl		I can.
baines		You can read?
tree girl		Yes ... lots of things.
big sister		She can't read, she's my sister, I ought to know. Are those sweets?
tree girl		I can read!
big sister		She can't.
big sister		She can't read.
baines		Can you read?
big sister		Running writing, we haven't done that yet.
reading girl		Myrtle can read it, her mother taught her.
myrtle		 D e a r  G e o r g e
big sister		That's "My".
myrtle		Its not an M
big sister		Yes it is.
myrtle		heart?  Ada McGrath.
big sister		It doesn't make sense.
myrtle		That's all
baines		Say it again, just you.
myrtle		Dear George you have my heart, Ada McGrath.
baines		You say it. 
big sister		Dear George you have my heart, Ada McGrath.
hira		Peini, Peini, liddle gel. I seen her come up here, scream, scream . blood on her. Look bad... very bad
baines		What has happened? Hush, hush, what is it?
flora		 He says you're not to see her or he'll chop her up!
baines		 What happened?
baines		Quiet down! Shhh! Where is she?
flora		 He chopped it off
baines		Jesus! I'll kill him! I'll kill him. What did she tell him?
hira		Put her down Peirn She is liddle.
stewart		 I lost my temper. I'm sorry.
stewart		You broke my trust, you pushed me hard, to hard.  You cannot send love to HIM you cannot do it.  Even to think on it makes me angry, very angry
stewart		I meant to love you. I clipped your wing, that is all.
stewart		We shall be together, you will see it will be better...
stewart		 ... my love bird.
stewart		Ohhhhh my love
stewart		You are feeling better?
stewart		What...?
stewart		Put that away, on the floor.
stewart		I look at you, at your face. I have had that face in my head hating it. But now I am here seeing it ... it's nothing, you blink, you have your mark, you look at me through your eyes, yes. you are even scared of me
stewart		Look at you!
stewart		 Has Ada ever spoken to you?
baines		You mean in signs?
stewart		No, words. You have never heard words?
baines		No, not words.
stewart		Never thought you heard words?
stewart		. Her voice was there in my head. I watched her lips, they did not make the words, yet the harder I listened the clearer I heard her, as clear as I hear you, as dear as I hear my own voice.
baines		 Spoken words?
stewart		No, but her words are in my head.  I know what you think, that it's a trick, that I'm making it up. No, the words I heard, were her words.
baines		 What are they?
stewart		She said, "I have to go, let me go, let Baines take me away, let him try and save me. I am frightened of my will, of what it might do it is so strange and strong".
baines		You punished her wrongly, it was me, my fault.
stewart		Understand me. I am here for her, for her I wonder that I don't wake, that I am not asleep to be here talking with you. I love her. But what is the use? She doesn't care for me. I wish her gone. I wish you gone. I want to wake and find it was a dream, that is what I want. I want to believe I am not this man. I want my self back; the one I know.
hira		I worry for you.
baines		No, I love her, we will be a family. I have her piano. I will mend it, she will get better.
hira		I miss you.
hira		He rimu teretere koc ete. Peini eeeii, Tere 'Ci Tawhiti 'ci Paniamao eeeii He waka Teretere He waka teretere. Ko koe ka tere 'ci tua whakuere eeeii.
maroi oarsmen		Tarinaharawa - alanel tahuri ai.  SUBTITLED
baines		Keite pail Kaare e titahataha aria.  SUBTITLED
another oarsman		Leave it - its too heavy.
baines		No, she needs it, she must have it.
flora		I can't
baines		What did she say?
flora		 She says, throw the piano overboard.
baines		 It's quite safe, they are managing...
baines		 What?
flora		She says, throw it overboard. She doesn't want it. She says it's spoiled
baines		I have the key here, look, I'll have it mended...
maori oarsman		Ae! Peja. Turakina'. Bushit? Peja te kawheha kite moana.  SUBTITLED
baines		 Please, Ada, you will regret it. It's your piano, I want you to have it.
flora		 She doesn't want IT!
baines		All right. sit down, sit down.
men		TnTame VitoHotu HonePara TipiKahu 
women		TaiAni
****Dialogues from script :Pineapple_Express.txt****

general brat		When did it start?
scientist		 Private Miller, we are now going to ask you several questions. How do you feel?
private miller		Uh, I feel a little queer sir. But... It's good. Good queer.  Sir. Good queer, Sir.
scientist		Private Miller. When you think of your superiors, what emotions do you feel?
private miller		 This went out...Sir.
scientist		We will send someone in. Now answer the question.
private miller		Oh...um...what was the question again?
private miller		COUGH   COUGH  Fucking shit.  Well, now that I think of it, it's strange that they are called my `superiors'. Does that make me their `inferior'? I mean, that's pretty fucked up.
general brat		 I've seen enough. Shut it down. Bury the hatch, sell the land, and dispose of him. This never happened.
private miller		 Sir!!! Sir!!! Help me!!!
general		 Illegal.
dale		You're Joshua Aaron Corber?
dale		Sorry, but you've been served.
dale		 Hey! Nice. New chicken fries.
dale		Yo. It's Dale. Mind if I come by and pick up some shit?
dale		What's up, Saul.
saul		 What the fuck?!?
dale		What?
saul		I didn't buzz you in. How the monkey did you get in here?
dale		Whoa...sorry, man. someone just let me in. I-
saul		That's fucked up, man! This building is filled with fuckin' assholes. What else is the buzzer for? Fuck.
dale		I'll buzz next time, man. I'm real sorry. I'm just not familiar with your, uh...protocol yet.
saul		Hey, stuff your sorry's i n a sack, bro. We're always cool. It's those fuckin' jaggoffs.
dale		Um...sure.
saul		Brass tacs. I've got this new bud. Unfortunately, it's a few more bones, but fortunately, it's hands down the dopest fuckin' shit I ever smoked. And I've smoked some dope fuckin' shit.
dale		Better than that Blue Oyster weed?
saul		Dude. Seriously. It's like if that Blue Oyster shit and the Afghan Kush I got had a baby, and meanwhile, the craziest Northern Lights and that red-ass Espresso Snowflake had a baby, and then by some miracle those babies met, and fucked - then this would be the shit they'd birth.
dale		What is this? It's spectacular.
saul		It's called Pineapple Express. My guy Red told me it's when this Hawaiian flood takes special dirt to the weed or some shit. It's pretty scientific. And I'm the only guy in the whole city who has it. And, its only ten bones more for a quarter.
dale		So...can I get a quarter?
saul		No doubt. Just let me grab my scale.
dale		Where's the scale?
saul		Oh shit! The scale. Be right back.
dale		Holy shit! What the fuck is this thing?
saul		 Ah, the cross-joint. You've never seen one of these? Not surprising. They are, like, the apex of the vortex of joint engineering. NASA built the first one in the eighties.
dale		You can actually smoke that contraption?
saul		You light all three ends at the same time, then, you smoke it as it resonates the main section, creating a "trifecta" of smoking power. It's like, three times as powerful as a normal joint.
dale		Well, be careful with that thing.
saul		Dude...you wanna smoke this thing with me?
dale		 Wow. So like, uh...so like, so like what do I do?
saul		Alright. Firstly you light these two ends. Then I will light the tip, making the trifecta complete. Are you ready?
dale		Holy...
saul		It's...uh, it's good to cough.  COUGH  It opens the  COUGH  capillaries...gets you twenty-five percent higher. 
dale		I'm a process server.
saul		You`re a servant? Like, a butler.
dale		No, process server.
saul		Nice, man. Where'd you get that job?
dale		Well...uh, I got a totally useless degree two years ago, then I did nothing for a year, then my dad got so fed up he hooked me up.
saul		Hey man, did you get those new chicken fries?
dale		Yeah man. I'd get on that shit. They're fucking mind blowing. So, then I hot- boxed my car and then...got some action from my girlfriend.
saul		Does she smoke pot?
dale		A little. She's in high school.
saul		That's fuckin' sweet! Ilegal love! You're like Jerry Lee Lewis. I just read his biography.
dale		Sorry to hear that.
saul		Yo, so, like, what have these people done that you go after?
dale		Let's see...tonight I'm going after-
saul		Dude! My guy, Red, gets his weed from a Ted Jones. He's, like, #1 supplier in town. Maybe it's him!
dale		I doubt that, man. There's probably a lot of Ted Joneses's out there.
saul		Yeah, but not like this one, man! He's what I want to be one day. He's like the "Jesus of Weed". So...I guess he's like Jah. Or Scarface.
dale		Well Saul, that was crazy. Thanks.
saul		No worries dude, peace.
ted		Pineapple Express.
saul		Ha! Ha! Ha! Screech.
saul		 Denton? Dale Denton?
saul		 ...fucking, don't smoke that shit if you can't handle it.
dale		He fucking killed him, man!
saul		Be quiet, man, I got neighbors-
dale		 He killed him!
saul		 Somebody killed somebody?!?
dale		Yeah, man! I can't believe it. A cop! A lady, and a guy.
saul		Somebody killed a cop, a lady and a guy?
dale		No! A guy!
saul		A cop killed a guy?
dale		No! A cop and a guy killed   another guy! The lady and the guy...No,   a fucking woman, a police woman, and   an old guy, shot a guy, a younger guy,   in the fucking window at Ted's house!
saul		Was the guy Ted?
dale		Which guy?
saul		I don't know, the old guy who shot the guy?
dale		I don't fucking know. He was this big, old, grey haired guy with a gun, and he fucking took him, and he shot him! Right there in the fucking window! BAM!
saul		I heard Ted's got grey hair!
dale		And they saw me! They saw me see them shoot the guy!
saul		What!?! They saw you?!? Why the fuck did you come here? Did they follow you?!?
dale		No! I panicked. I was having a coughing fit, I crashed, I crashed into a car. Fuck, two cars. They must've heard at least. They knew someone was there.
saul		But they don't know it's you?
dale		No. I don't think so. No.
saul		So...they're not coming here?
dale		I'm not calling the cops - one of them was a cop. They could all be cops!
saul		Did you see any blood? Was it sick?
dale		Yeah. I saw some blood.
saul		I wonder who the guy he shot was?
dale		I don't know, who do drug dealers kill? It was probably another drug dealer. He was Asian. Are there Asian drug dealers.
saul		Hell yeah, man. The Koreans teamed up with, like, the Vietnamese or some shit. They're crazy mother fuckers. Number two in town.  Heh. Ted's cappin' the competition. Yo, you want some of this?
saul		Oh, the Pineapple Express. It's so rare it's almost a shame to smoke it, like killing a unicorn...with, like, a bomb.
dale		When I threw it...out...the window...
saul		What?
dale		This weed is actually that rare?
saul		 Yeah, it's like, "the rarest".
dale		So, you are actually the only guy in town with this weed?
saul		Fuckin' rights, I am. Red told me he was giving me an "exclusive sneak preview".
dale		And am I the only guy you gave it to?
saul		Yeah. So, we're the only guys.
dale		But, like, another dealer, couldn't identify it, the pineapple weed? Like, if they found a roach of it, right?
saul		I could. Why?
dale		 We should go, we shouldn't be here! We should go!
saul		No...seriously, why?
dale		I left a roach of this weed in front of Ted's house!
saul		So what? I leave roaches all over fucking town.
dale		No, listen - they could find the roach and say, "This is pineapple weed, Saul's the only guy in town who has pineapple weed, therefore he must have witnessed the murder or know who did - let's go kill him."
saul		Mother of fuck!
dale		Wait!
saul		Why!?! Let go of me! Let's get the fuck out of here!
dale		Saul, wait! Grab anything we might need, like your weed and money and stuff.
saul		Yes! Come on!
saul		Fuck! I forgot something!
dale		We'll take the stairs, it'll be faster.
saul		Why?!?
dale		We don't want to draw attention.
saul		 Whose attention!?! You think they could be down there? In the Lobby? Right now!?!
dale		I don't know! Who knows? Just try to be cool.
saul		What the fuck was that?
dale		That was bad - Calm! Calm! Calm!
dale		Okay, what do you know about Ted?
saul		What? Ted? Nothing. For all I know he's tracking us with space satellites right now! He's got grey hair, that's all I knew.
dale		No way! What if they did see my license plate!?!
saul		Okay, so let's got to a hotel, or a motel, or a Holiday Inn.
dale		Well, how much money do we have?
saul		All I've got is the seventy-five you gave me.
dale		That's it!?!
saul		Well, how much money do you have?
dale		Uh...nine bucks.
saul		Well, shut up then! I've got more than you!
dale		Fine. Forget the hotel.
saul		I wish we could just go nowhere.
dale		Okay...where's nowhere?
dale		So what do we know? Nothing. We may or may not be followed because we don't even know if he found the roach or not. And, we could just be completely crazy. But, the question is this: even if he found the roach, how could he know where you were?
saul		 He couldn't. Cause I'm in the woods. It's impossible! Unless he's, like, hanging on the bottom of the car or some shit, but I mean-
dale		No, what I mean is, if Ted found the roach and identified the weed, how could he connect it to you?
saul		There's no way. He could only find out from Red.
dale		Who is this Red guy?
saul		Red's pretty much a middleman between Ted and guys like me. And we're mad fucking tight. One time he convinced some girl he knew to give me a hand-job within, like, five minutes of me meeting her.
dale		But let's say someone calls asking who he sold this pineapple weed to, he'll say you, because...why wouldn't he?
saul		Fuck that. That's bullshit. He would have called me if that happened. A hand-job, Dale! Imagine if I'd gotten you a hand job by now!
dale		You're right. You are. I'm just being paranoid. Sorry, dude.
saul		Yo, Red. You okay man?
saul		Dude, watch the toes. Wear shoes in the house. But Red, I gotta get straight to brass tacs, I need a favor.
saul		You sure as fuck are, buddy. So, you know how you gave me some of that pineapple express stuff? Don't tell anyone you gave it to me.
saul		So, can I come on over now?
dale		 No! We should do it tomorrow!
saul		 I'm in the middle of a convo, man. Let's just go and get this shit over with.
dale		Come on, man. Tomorrow. I'm scared shitless. I want to think things through before I do anything. Let's go in the morning. Please.
saul		Yeah...okay. Less scary shit happens in the day.
saul		Yeah, right after I see my grandma.
saul		Yeah man. I've only got one. So, we'll be chillin' by noon.
saul		We should definitely hit up the casino again sometime.
saul		Nice. Now let's do some fucking stone cold chilling. I'll role a jigga, on the house.
red		 I didn't say shit, man! There was another guy there and he said tomorrow!
red		No, man!
saul		I always liked smoking weed in the forest.
dale		I'm going to go call Angie. Make up some bull shit.
saul		Dale...wait!
dale		What the fuck is that?!
saul		It's them!!!
dale		 You know what? You're right. We should just get rid of them. We should just smash `em.
saul		No! Smash it!
dale		What the fuck was that?!
saul		Fuck! I was trying to throw it at that tree!
dale		What tree?
saul		That one.
dale		Who the fuck knows?!? I don't know!! Why couldn't you have just smashed it on a rock like a normal person?
saul		I was trying to smash it! How often does a guy smash things? I'm rusty. Fuck.
dale		Did you at least see where it landed?
saul		Over there, somewhere. Wait! We could call it!
dale		With what? I just smashed my phone!
saul		Man, it's not like they got McGuyver workin' on the case. I bet they can't even triangulate it.
dale		Well, then you shouldn't have said anything, cause now you've convinced me that they can!
saul		Fine! Fine. Let's just find the stupid thing and get back to doing what we were doin'.
dale		Do you see it?
saul		Dude, this is the scariest place I've ever been in my life.
dale		The "Blair Witch Project."
saul		No...Shit. That one's way scarier than the one I was thinking of. Mine had Arnold Shwartzenegger in it. Now I'm thinking of the fucking Blair Witch.
dale		 Stop!
saul		 What-
dale		 Sshh!
saul		 What is-
dale		 Sshh! Can you hear that?
saul		 What?
dale		 Just listen.
saul		 Wait...
dale		SAUL!!!
dale		Shit.
saul		 Let me in! Let me in!
dale		Is there anyone even out there?!?
saul		I don't know!
dale		If you don't know then why the hell did you run like that?!?
saul		I don't know! I'm freaking out, man! Let's just go!
radio dj		-white accent walls would go nice with a dark colored room, say a burnt sienna, but don't forget...
saul		Talk radio? You fuckin' joshin' me? Why don't we just shoot ourselves in the nuts?
dale		Shut up, okay? It's my car.
saul		Fine. Well, I'm going to smoke a joint before I go to sleep, and don't worry about it, even though you're being a dick, it's on the house.
dale		Saul. Saul. Get up. Wake up.
saul		Fuck me.
dale		What's the time?
saul		 It's too early.
dale		What does it say?
saul		It says, uh...
dale		It's three o'clock!?! We were supposed to be there at noon!
saul		 Fuck! No! They go forwards an hour! Dammit-
dale		It's four o'fucking clock?!
saul		-I didn't go to my Grandma's! Fuck! And we've gotta call Red.
dale		 How?
saul		We'll find a pay pho...fuck! His number was in my phone!
dale		You remember where he lives, right?
saul		Yes, I remember. What the hell is that supposed to mean? Are you insinuating I'm forgetful? That's right, I know the word insinuating.
dale		Let's just get out of here.
saul		Are you fucking serious?
dale		It's dead.
saul		It's dead?
dale		How? We fell asleep!
dale		We gotta...let's just...we'll walk. We'll walk to a road and hitchhike to Red's.
saul		For real?
dale		Yeah, "for real". We'll be late, but we'll get there. Then we can fix this insane situation.
saul		It's like, my thumb is my cock!
saul		 Thanks a fucking ton, Sharid.
dale		So, what's this guy like?
saul		I don't know. He's short...and stout. So he's like a tea pot. Hehe.
dale		Well, do you think he'll be there?
saul		I don't know, I mean, we are only...eight hours late.  That's actually pretty late.
saul		Red! It's Saul. Open up.
red		 Who's this guy?
dale		Dale. Nice to meet you.
red		Dale who?
dale		I think it's    better if you don't know my last-
saul		 Dale Denton. He's with me. No worries.
red		 What happened to your clothes? Where'd you call me from, man?
saul		We were in the forest laying low. Thinking.
dale		Uh, Red...what...uh, is your lip okay?
saul		Whoa! Dude, have you been crying?
red		What? Oh, I uh...  ...I got a cold sore, I've never got one before. I started crying.
saul		A cold sore? Is that fucking herpes?
red		...uh, yeah, man.
saul		Ewwww! That's sick, man. Do you know how many joints we've shared? I told you, man. This is from that time you ate the lollypop straight from the strippers sna-
dale		Saul. Ask him.
saul		 Okay, Captain Demando. Can you just chill out, maybe? So, Red. I gotta ask-
red		Okay, first of all, stop. What's this all about? That's what I want to know.
saul		Alright. Well, Dale's a servant for protest lawyers, and-
dale		Whoa, whoa! Saul, I don't think...well, Red, I don't mean to be rude but I don't think we should tell you any more than you need to know.
red		Fuck that, Dale. This is my house, I deserve to know.
saul		Dude! Let's just tell him. It is his house.
dale		Look. Red, I just don't want to pull you into the shit we're in. It's just trouble.
saul		Don't be weird about this. If he wants trouble, it's his right to have it.
red		Whoa! Whoa! I don't want trouble.
dale		That's why we only need to clarify one thing - nobody's called about Saul or the pineapple express or anything like that?
red		No one. Nada.
saul		Awesome! Look at that! Everything's fine. We had a crazy night in the woods, which I assume we can both put behind us like grown ups, and now we can use Red's giant bong to get super-duper high.
dale		I'm sorry! I'm sorry!
saul		Dale!   What the fuck are you doing?
dale		 We can't let him call anyone! He's acting weird!
red		Fuck you man - this is my house!
dale		I'm sorry. I just, I don't think I can-
saul		Dale! You fucking nut. You're stoned and paranoid. Just chill the shit out, guy!  I'm sorry, Red. I shouldn't have brought this guy over here, he's a total lunatic.
dale		 AAAHHH!
saul		Holy cock!
dale		 SAUL!!! Phone!!!
saul		What the fuck Red!?! What the fuck is going on!?!
red		I don't know!!! They're going to kill me!!!
saul		You didn't stub your toe, did you?
dale		Now tell us-
red		They're gonna come back and kill me!!!
dale		It's happening! It's actually happening! He knows my name! Red knows my name!
saul		We should beat it out of his sellout brains. You're a shitty friend, Red! Fuck the Casino! Go alone!
dale		This is fucked, what do we do now, he knows my name!?!
saul		He knows my name too!
dale		Well what do we do? He's gonna tell them!
saul		We're not gonna have to kill him, are we? I don't think I could do that.
dale		Well, we have to find out what he knows.
red		 I don't know anything...you broke my bong...
dale		Tell us everything. Now!
saul		Don't look at me, you sellout bastard. Now start talking!
red		I can't...I don't know anything.
saul		What do we do? He's not gonna talk.
dale		I think we beat it out of him.
saul		For real?
dale		Okay. Red. Here's the deal: if you don't tell us everything, we're going to beat you up.
red		Don't beat me up! Saul, dude, I'm Red!
dale		You've got five seconds, okay? Ready? Five, four-
red		Please don't.
dale		Three, two...one!
red		That didn't hurt.
saul		You didn't even hurt him! Hit him hard, man. Like, fucking hit him!
red		Wait! I...I...
saul		Seriously?
dale		Who were they?
red		They work for Ted. Budlofsky and Matheson. Fuckin' crazy weird guys. They were here all day, but you guys didn't show. They said they'd kill me if I didn't bring you to them, they said I'd-
dale		How many cops does he have in his...uh, payroll, or whatever?
red		I know there's this lady cop. He could have more, I don't know. He's got pretty crazy connections. He's also got a cool- ass hideout. It's crazy man.
dale		Who's his competition?
red		The Asians!
dale		Asians? Which Asians? Indians are technically Asian.
red		The...the Koreans, I think. Everyone just calls them the Asians.
saul		What else?
red		I swear to god that's all I know...I swear...
dale		Alright. We should...tie him up and...and get the fuck out of here.
saul		I made a gravity bong here once. I know where his duct tape is.
dale		What?
saul		I can't find the, oh...wait...
dale		 What do we do?
saul		 I don't know.
saul		In here!
dale		No. I've got to get to a phone!
saul		We should hide!
dale		But, if Red tells Ted's guys my name, then they'll go to my apartment and find out about Angie!
saul		I think we should stay!
dale		Why?!
saul		Because I'm in the dumpster already! Shit! Fine!
red		I just did, Matheson. Fuckin' Dale Denton's the other guys name. He was with Saul, they kicked my ass. What more do you want?
ted		Ask if either of them were Asian.
red		What? Um...white, they're both white. I think Denton might be a Jew, but I couldn't really tell.
carol		Does he have something to do with our friend in there?
ted		If the Asians have the balls to send an assassin right into my home, we can't be too cautious. The boys say Denton and Saul are Caucasian. Maybe after their assassin failed, they hired this outside guy Denton to finish the job.  Also, the boys said that Saul mentioned "going to the casino."
saul		 But my parents live   in Canada. You don't think they're going   to go to Canada, do you? How would they   get a Canadian phone book even?
dale		 All I know is Angie's new number is on my fridge and they could see that, so I have to get to her.
dale		Dude, stay here. I'll be back in a minute.
saul		Hells no! I don't want to be alone! I want to go with you!
dale		Saul, just watch my back. I'll literally be five minutes. Please.
saul		Fine. But hurry.
dale		Angie!
angie		Who are these people? Why are they-
dale		I think their drug dealers.
angie		 Why?
dale		Well, it's complicated. See, the...uh...it doesn't matter right now, we just have to get out of here.
angie		Let's go to the police!
dale		No, they are the police!
saul		 You... huff ...Angie? Dale! It's happening!
angie		EEEHHHH!!!
saul		ARGGG!!!
angie		 Dale, it's one of the drug dealers!!!
saul		No! I'm Dale's dealer, I'm S-
dale		Angie! Stop! It's Saul!
angie		Saul? Dale, who is-
saul		Dale, they're coming!
saul		Why aren't we in that car?
dale		Let's run, man! Run!
saul		Huff   Huff  Where are we running?
dale		Somewhere we can think.
carol		A fork?
ted		A bloody fork. In his girlfriends house. And the blood was fresh.
carol		Maybe he killed her, to protect himself.
ted		Or maybe it's the Asians fucking with us. What the fuck is going on!  Any luck with the cell phones?
carol		They smashed one and left the other one in the woods to distract us. Took us an hour to find it. And we found Denton's car, which was filled with all these strange disguises. These guys are for real.
ted		I want to talk to the Asians. Get me Cheung's number. Now.
cheung		 Hello?
ted		Cheung. It's Ted.
cheung		 Record this conversation.
ted		Cheung, I want you to call off your man Denton. I don't know what he is, a scout, assassin, and frankly I don't care. I just want him gone. I want him dead. If you do this, I'll consider it a peace offering, otherwise, you're asking for war. And just in case you forgot, I'm number one, and there's a reason for that. You've got 24 hours to reply.
cheung		Ted Jones is slipping. Our assassin failed to kill him, but it did rattle his confidence. It's earlier than planned, but we should strike now, while he is confused. Let it be known-
saul		Victory joint complete. Here ya go.
dale		"Tell us what you know!" How fuckin' balls was that?
saul		Like, really balls.
dale		And I think I fought pretty well, don't you? You know, for my first time. We were like Tango and Cash, man.
saul		Or Scarface!
dale		BOOM! Knocked the door right off it's hinges!
saul		And you probably saved Angie, which is fucking pimp.
dale		I probably couldn't have done it without you. Thanks, man. It is fucking pimp.
saul		We're in this together, right? So, ya know.
dale		Thanks, man.  You know, my last dealer was a total dick. You're by far the coolest dealer I've ever had.
saul		 Wow. Thanks, man. I seriously appreciate that.
dale		Yeah...like, the time before last time, I totally had weed. I just kind of wanted to chill with you.
saul		 Really? That's awesome, man. That means a lot to me, `cause, like, plenty of dudes come in to buy and pretend to be all buddy-buddy with me, but in my head I'm always, like, "you don't like me, you like my drugs, so fuck you, buddy!" You know? And just so you know, I totally could have lit that cross-joint on my own. I'd just have to use candles, but, like, I've never smoked one of those with anyone before.
dale		So, do you think we should leave town? We could just get on a bus and go, right?
saul		We only have, like, fifty bucks. I don't think that could even pay for one ticket.
dale		What about your sack?
saul		Oh man. It's still fucking killing me.
dale		 No dude, your sack of weed. Can't we sell some?
saul		Of course. That's my bread and butter. We just have to go to a highschool. It's the easiest market. Chester A. Arthur is like, a block a way.
dale		No way, man. I'm not going to sell to kids.
saul		 We could go to Crackhead Park.
dale		What's that?
saul		It's a park. Really close, actually. Full of crackheads. They smoke weed too, though.
saul		Yo. `sup. You guys want some chronic?
dale		 Man, this is great.
ack		Cough   Cough  What's it called again?
walt		Pineapple express. They said it, like, eight times, you fucking `tard.
ack		Oh, so sorry if I-
blake		Come on, man. Puff, puff, pass.
saul		You know, I went here for a year. Kicked me out for having a swiss army knife. Everyone has a swiss army knife!
dale		I got like, thirty for my Bar Mitzvah.
desmond		My Bar Mitzvah sucked.
ack		I touched Jessica Lubell's tit at your Bar Mitzvah.
dale		You touched a tit when you were twelve?
walt		Lubell? Are you joking? Those are the finest tats in the grade!
blake		A hundred and seventy eight.
saul		Alright. You gimme all your money, you can each take two handfuls of weed. That treat ya right?
desmond		That's fucking awesome!
saul		I know. Keep it on the down low.
ack		 Jason'll never believe this...until I show him all this weed!
saul		And we, my good man, are officially scott fuckin' free.
dale		There are still people trying to kill us.
saul		But at least now we can afford to run. I'm gonna go buy some celebration snacks. Let's have us a little mardi-gras fiesta.
police liaison		Don't move!
police liaison		Selling pot to my students isn't "decriminalized." I'm the liaison officer for this school and I just caught four students showing off handfuls of marijuana to their friends. They told me they got it back here. Put your hands up.
dale		Wait! I wasn't selling anything! All I have is this little joint.
police liaison		You call this little?
dale		I don't even have any money! How did I sell weed if I don't have any money?!? I was just smoking it. I swear. Please.
police liaison		It's possible you're telling the truth. I'm going to run a check and if it turns out you don't have any priors and all you've got is this small amount of marijuana, I'll let you go with a fine. Take a seat.
saul		They got Dale. Oh fuck, oh fuck, oh fuck...
carol		 Denton.
dale		What is this for? What did that thing tell you? What did I do?
police liaison		Hit and run, Mr. Denton. A double, actually. You hit two parked cars two nights ago.
saul		The lady cop. She's gonna kill him.
dale		You don't understand! You have to let me go! Dirty cops are gonna kill me! Please!
police liaison		 Ted Jones?
dale		Yeah. With grey-hair. Tell me you know what I'm talking about. He lives near Evergreen Heights. He-
police liaison		Are you telling me you saw Ted Jones and a police office shoot someone?
dale		Yeah. An Asian someone.
police liaison		Stay calm, do as your told, I'll get you down to the station.
dale		 Yes ma'am.
police liaison		Oh my god! Is that blood? Oh my god!
dale		NO! What are you doing!?!
saul		Saving you. Hold on, amigo. Tango and Cash!
police liaison		Freeze mister! Don't even...
dale		No! She was going to help us!
saul		 Oh...my balls...I seriously think I popped one...
dale		 IT'S HER! The lady cop!
saul		 Then who's that?
saul		The slurpee! I can't see!
dale		Turn on the wipers!
saul		Dude, I seriously can't see!
dale		Kick out the window! Isn't that what they do?
saul		I don't know. Okay.
dale		Get it out of there!
saul		Ah! Ah! My leg!
dale		 She's following us! She's gaining on us!
saul		Her car's better!
dale		Do something!
saul		Hold on. I've got an idea.
dale		WHAT THE FUCK WAS THAT?!?!?
saul		Oh shit, man! I'm sorry! I thought she'd keep going.
dale		Turn on the sirens!
saul		Run!
dale		Saul! Saul! I'm locked in!
saul		So... huff ... huff ...fuckin' sorry... huff ...forgot...
dale		Don't touch me, you asshole!
saul		A thank you would be nice!
dale		Could I have the, uh, Carlyle room, please?
angie		Dale?
dale		Angie! Thank god you're okay!
angie		I'm fine. How are you? Are you okay?
dale		I'm great. I'm fine. I miss you. So, here's the plan, babe. I'm going to leave town and contact a government official or something. From somewhere safe. I know this shit is all fucked up and I just can't apologize enough.
angie		Dale. I've realized some problems and-
dale		I know there's a problem! That's the thing, that's why I-
angie		Dale, shut up and listen. People are trying to kill you, and me! Dale, drug dealers are trying to kill me, because of you! It's fucking over, man. Are you kidding me? For gods sake...
dale		What? You're telling me you think I'm a dumb guy?
dale		Are you joking? You're actually gonna smoke marijuana?
saul		Why not?
dale		How can you smoke marijuana after what we just went through? That clearly happened because we were smoking marijuana.
saul		No. It happened because those fucking kids didn't keep that shit on the down low. Which is weird, `cause they really seemed like cool kids.
dale		If you haven't noticed, we're not very functional when we're stoned, Saul.
saul		When I saved you with those Slurpees I was stoned. What do you gotta say to that? Maybe the pot is what gave me the creative capacity to come up with such a great plan! The Beatles were high!
dale		You didn't save me! She was going to protect us, and now we're wanted for all sorts of crazy shit!
saul		For one thing, I'm done dealing pot. Mostly, because I don't know where I would get it now, but still. And "b", fuck you, man. You can't judge me. We're exactly the same, and this whole thing's your fucking fault. You're the one who dropped the roach!
dale		It's not my fault!
saul		Stop calling it marijuana!
carol		Guy drove like a mother-fucker. It was amazing.
ted		This is not good. We should have this under control. We haven't heard shit from the Asians. Got these lunatics after us. Shit.
carol		We should probably get to the farm.
saul		Hey! Mrs. Mendelson!
saul		Mrs. Corber! You gotta hide me!
saul		Dale!?! What the fuck? Did you rat me out, you shitty bastard? That what happened?
dale		No! I came here to save you!
saul		To save me? Ha! That's rich! You're caught, too. And now I have to die with some asshole.
dale		Saul, I deserved that, because I fucked you. You're right, this whole things my fault, and they only way I can make it up to you is by rescuing you, and that's why I'm here. To save my friend.
saul		Tell ya what, Dale. You actually save me and I'll consider forgiving you for this mad shit.
saul		Oh really? What, you forget to tell me you shoot lasers out of your eyes, or you got some kind of secret blowtorch strapped to your dick? We're not gonna escape, Dale, we're losers, and sinners, and after we die, we're gonna go to hell!
dale		We're not losers! We did that car chase. That was all you, man! You got away from the cops. I've watched, like, nine billion hours of worlds wildest police chases and I've never seen a guy get away. Not once! But you did it. You did the impossible.
ted		You have them?
carol		Where did you find them?
ted		He shot Frank? Jesus. Fuckin' Frank.
carol		Who the fuck is this Dale Denton?
dale		This isn't working. Turn around. I'm using my mouth.
saul		 Someone's coming!
dale		 Yo - if I cough, I'm going to make a move, if I cough twice, you take the lead. Got it?
saul		 What? No! What if you actually cough?
saul		Holy shit, man! I'm sorry!
ted		Has anyone seen my bigger knife?  Do you guys hear that?
saul		Dale? You're alive!
dale		What happened?
saul		They got your ear.
dale		 My what?
saul		Here. Get up.
dale		 AAHHHH!!! MY EAR!!!
saul		 Well, you kneed my balls!
dale		You shot him?
carol		On three.
saul		Look at all this fucking weed, man. Where the hell are we? Is this some underground weed city we don't know about?
dale		 I don't know! That guy just blew half my fucking ear off!
saul		 There's some dudes in here. I saw them when I got dragged down. And there's some kind of super-suit or something.
saul		You could boost me up! We'll sneak out.
saul		Wha-
ted		Denton!!!
saul		AHHH!!!
saul		Fuck...
dale		Sorry, Ted...
saul		 Cough   Cough  What the fuck happened?
dale		We... Cough ...we did it. We beat them. We won.
saul		No fucking way. Seriously?  How did that happen?
dale		I have absolutely no idea.
saul		They were fighting Asian dudes, man.
dale		Asian dudes? So, okay...maybe this is revenge for that Asian dude I saw Ted kill.
dale		I've gotta get downtown, try and win Angie back.
saul		Tell her you cut off your ear for her, like that crazy artist.  But, seriously dude, your joking right? She'll never take you back, ever. Just grow up and date a woman your own age.
dale		Do you think we should have looked for the ear? They probably could've re- attached it, eh? I mean, this ear thing kind of fucking sucks.
saul		Don't worry, man. Look at Evander Holyfield, he looks totally normal. And plus, I saw this thing on the Discovery Channel, they can actually grow ears, like, in a petri dish, or even on the side of a mouse. And you only need half of one. It'll be a fuckin' cinch.
dale		I just realized I've 100% lost my job by now. I haven't called in for days.
saul		Who fuckin' cares? I thought you wanted to be a talk radio dude anyways? And, like, I never said anything, but you do have the voice. Like, when I didn't know what you did, I kind of thought you might have been doing cartoon voices, you know, like that Shrek shit, and that's why you wore a suit.
saul		Do you hear something?
dale		All I hear is ringing.
saul		Dude, I'm kind of freakin' out. Like...I don't know...like, there might be someone out there. I mean...how do we know we got them all?
dale		Well...the barn did collapse in a ball of fire, and we probably each inhaled about ten pounds of weed smoke, so...it's just, you know-
saul		 Stop!
dale		 What-
saul		 Sshh! Can you hear that?
dale		 What?
saul		 Just listen.
dale		 I literally only hear ringing.
saul		Wait! Me too!
****Dialogues from script :Pirates_of_the_Caribbean.txt****

elizabeth		...drink up me hearties, yo, ho...
gibbs		 Quiet, missy! Cursed pirates sail these waters. You want to call 'em down on us?
norrington		Mr. Gibbs.
gibbs		She was singing about pirates. Bad luck to sing about pirates, with us mired in this unnatural fog-- mark my words.
norrington		Consider them marked.   On your way.
gibbs		'Aye, Captain.  Bad luck to have a woman on board, too. Even a mini'ture one.
elizabeth		I think it would be rather exciting to meet a pirate.
norrington		Think again, Miss Swan.   Vile and dissolute creatures, the  lot of them. I intend to see to   it that any man who sails under a  pirate flag, or wears a pirates  brand, gets what he deserves: a  short drop and a sudden stop.
swan		Captain Norrington... I appreciate your fervor, but I am concerned about the effect this subject will have on my daughter.
norrington		My apologies, Governor.
elizabeth		Actually, I find it all fascinating.
elizabeth		Yes, father.
norrington		Man overboard!
elizabeth		Boy overboard!
norrington		Fetch a hook! Haul him out of there!
gibbs		Mary mother of God ...
swan		What happened here?
norrington		An explosion in the powder magazine. Merchant vessels run heavily armed.
gibbs		Lot of good it did them...  Everyone's thinking it! I'm just saying it! Pirates!
swan		There is no proof of that. It could have been an accident. Captain, these men were protection. If there is even the slightest chance one of those poor devils is still alive, we cannot abandon them!
norrington		Of course not, Governor.  Move the boy aft. We'll need the deck clear.
swan		Elizabeth, I want you to accompany the boy. He's in your charge now. You'll watch over him?
elizabeth		My name is Elizabeth Swann.
will		Will Turner.
elizabeth		I'm watching over you, Will.
norrington		Did he speak?
elizabeth		His name is Will Turner -- that's all I found out.
norrington		Very good.
elizabeth		Yes -- yes.
swann		Still abed at this hour?    It's a beautiful day!
swann		Is an occasion necessary for a father to dote upon his daughter with gifts?
swann		Captain Norrington's promotion ceremony.
elizabeth		I knew it.
swann		Or, rather, Commodore Norrington...a fine gentleman, don't you think?  He fancies you, you know.
elizabeth		Difficult ... to say.
elizabeth		 Women in London must have learned to not breath.
butler		Governor? A caller is here for you.
swann		Ah, Mr. Turner! It's good to see you again!
will		Good day, sir.  I have your order.
swann		Impressive. .. very impressive. Commodore Norrington will be pleased, I'm sure. Do pass my compliments on to your master.
will		 I shall. A craftsman is always pleased to hear his work is appreciated --
swann		Elizabeth! You look stunning!
elizabeth		Will! It's so good to see you!
swann		Elizabeth, this is hardly appropriate -
elizabeth		 About the day we met. Do you remember?
will		I could never forget it, Miss Swann.
elizabeth		Will, how many times must I ask you to call me 'Elizabeth'?
will		At least once more, Miss Swann. As always.
swann		Well said! There's a boy who understands propriety. Now, we must be going.
elizabeth		Good day, Mr. Turner.
will		Good day.
swann		Dear, I do hope you demonstrate a bit more decorum in front of Commodore Norrington. After all, it is only
harbormaster		If you're out rolling scuppers in this tub, you're either incredibly brave or incredibly stupid.
jack		It's remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
harbormaster		It's a shilling for the dock space, and you're going to have to give me your name.
jack		What do you say to three shillings, and we forget the name?
harbormaster		Welcome to Port Royal, Mr. Smith.
murtogg		This dock is off-limits to civilians.
jack		Sorry, I didn't know.
murtogg		No ... someone has to make sure this dock stays off-limits to civilians.
jack		This must be some important boat.
mullroy		Ship.
jack		Ship.
murtogg		Captain Norrington's made it his flagship. He'll use it to hunt down the last dregs of piracy on the Spanish Lake.
mullroy		Commodore.
murtogg		Right. Commodore Norrington.
jack		That's a fine goal, I'm sure ... But it seems to me a ship like that --  -- makes this one here just a wee superfluous.
murtogg		Oh, the Dauntless is the power in these waters, true enough -- but there's no ship that can match the Interceptor for speed.
jack		That so? I've heard of one, supposed to be fast, nigh uncatchable ... the Black Pearl?
murtogg		The Black Pearl is a real ship.
mullroy		No, it's not.
murtogg		Yes it is. I've seen it.
murtogg		Yes.
mullroy		You've seen the Black Pearl?
murtogg		Yes.
murtogg		Yes, I have.
murtogg		... No .
mullroy		No.
murtogg		But I've seen a ship with black sails.
murtogg		... no.
jack		I'm sorry. It's just such a pretty boat. Ship.
murtogg		What's your name?
jack		Smith.
murtogg		And no lies!
jack		None? Very well. You've rumbled me. I confess: I intend to commandeer one of these ships, pick up a crew in Tortuga, and go out on the account, do a little honest pirating.
murtogg		I said, no lies.
murtogg		He's not telling the truth.
mullroy		He may be.
murtogg		If he were telling the truth he wouldn't have told us.
jack		Unless, of course, he knew you wouldn't believe the truth if he told it to you.
norrington		May I have a moment?
elizabeth		I can't breathe.
gillette		The rocks, sir! It's a miracle she missed them!
jack		Aren't you going to save her?
jack		 Sailors.
mullroy		Not breathing.
mullroy		I never would have thought of that.
jack		Clearly, you've never been to Singapore.
norrington		On your feet.
swann		Elizabeth! Are you all right?
elizabeth		Yes -- yes, I'm fine -- Commodore Norrington, do you intend to kill my rescuer?
norrington		I believe thanks are in order.
jack		Captain Jack Sparrow. If you please.
norrington		I don't see your ship -- Captain.
murtogg		He said he'd come to commandeer one.
mullroy		 These are his, sir.
norrington		 Extra powder, but no additional shot.
jack		Ah, but you have heard of me.
norrington		Carefully, lieutenant.
elizabeth		Commodore, I must protest. Pirate or not, this man saved my life.
norrington		One good deed is not enough to redeem a man of a lifetime of wickedness.
jack		But it seems to be enough to condemn him.
norrington		 Indeed.
jack		Finally.
jack		Miss Swann, if you'll be so kind?
elizabeth		 You are despicable.
jack		I saved your life; now you've saved mine. We're square.
norrington		On his heels! Gillette, bring a squad down from the fort!
elizabeth		Yes, I'm all right, I'm fine! Go capture him.
swann		Here, dear ... you should wear this.
elizabeth		Thank you, Father ... and let that be the last of your fashion advice, please.
will		Right where I left you.
jack		You look familiar ... Have I ever threatened you before?
will		I've made a point of avoiding familiarity with pirates.
jack		Ah. Then it would be a shame to put a black mark on your record. So if you'll excuse me ...
will		You threatened Miss Swann.
jack		Only a little.
will		I do. And I practice with them. At least three hours a day.
jack		You need to find yourself a girl.  Or maybe the reason you practice three hours a day is you've found one -- but can't get her?
will		No. I practice three hours a day so that when I meet a pirate ... I can kill him.
will		No.
jack		Move!
will		No. I can not just step aside and let you escape.
jack		You're lucky, boy -- this shot's not meant for you.
norrington		Excellent work, Mister Brown. You've aided in the capture of a dangerous fugitive.
brown		Just doing my civic duty.
norrington		I believe you will always remember this as the day Captain Jack Sparrow almost escaped.
brown		That ratter broke my bottle.
elizabeth		Nice and toasty. Thank you, Estrellia.
prisoner		Come here, boy... Want a nice, juicy bone?
jack		You can keep doing that forever, that dog's never going to move.
prisoner		Excuse us if we ain't resigned ourselves to the gallows just yet.
swann		Has my daughter given you an answer yet?
norrington		No. She hasn't.
swann		Well, she had a taxing day... Ghastly weather tonight.
norrington		Bleak. Very bleak.
swann		What was that?
norrington		Cannon fire!
jack		I know those guns!
prisoner		 The Black Pearl? I've heard stories ... she's been preying on ships and settlements for near ten years ... and never leaves any survivors.
jack		There are a lot of stories about the Black Pearl.
norrington		Governor! Barricade yourself in my office!  That's an order!
pintel		Up there!
estrella		Miss Elizabeth?
elizabeth		Listen, Estrella -- they haven't seen you. Hide, and first chance, run for the fort .
pintel		We know you're here, poppet. Come out and we promise we won't hurt you.
elizabeth		Please, no ...
pintel		What?
elizabeth		Parlay! I invoke the right of parlay! According to" the Code of the Brethren, set down by the pirates Morgan and Bartholomew, you must take me to your Captain!
pintel		I know the code.
elizabeth		If an adversary demands parley, you can do them no harm until the parlay is complete.
pintel		It would appear, so do you.
smoldering pirate		To blazes with the code!
pintel		She wants to be taken to the Captain, and she'll go without a fuss.
prisioner		Praise be!
jack		It's all right, doggie ... come here,
twigg		This isn't the armory.
koehler		 Well, well... Look what we have here, Twigg. It's. Captain Sparrow.
twigg		Huh. Last time I saw you, you were all alone on a God-forsaken island, shrinking into the distance. I'd heard you'd gotten off, but I didn't believe it.
koehler		Did you sprout little wings and flyaway?
twigg		His fortunes aren't improved much.
jack		Worry about your own fortunes. The lowest circle of hell is reserved for betrayers ... and mutineers.
koehler		You know nothing of hell.
bosun		I didn't know we was taking captives.
pintel		She's invoked the right of parlay... with Captain Barbossa.
elizabeth		I am here to --
bosun		You'll speak when spoken to!
barbossa		And you'll not lay a hand on those under the protection of parlay!
bosun		Aye, sir.
elizabeth		Captain Barbossa ... I have come to negotiate the cessation of hostilities against Port Royal.
barbossa		There was a lot of long words in there, miss, and we're not but humble pirates. What is it you want?
elizabeth		I want you to leave. And never come back.
barbossa		I am disinclined to acquiesce to your request.  Means' No. '
elizabeth		Very well.
barbossa		My holds are bursting with swag. That bit of shine matters to me ... Why?
elizabeth		Because it's what you're searching for. You've been searching for it for years. I recognize this ship.
barbossa		 Did you, now?
elizabeth		Fine. I suppose if this is worthless, there's no reason to keep it.
barbossa		NO!
elizabeth		Elizabeth -  Barbossa reacts to the name Turner: it confirms what he has suspected. The other pirates surreptitiously exchange glances and nods.
barbossa		You've got sand, for a maid.
elizabeth		 Thank you, sir.
elizabeth		Of course.  I didn't steal it, if that's what you mean.
barbossa		No, no, nothing like that.  Very well. You hand that over, we'll put your town to our rudder and ne'er return.
elizabeth		Can I trust you?
barbossa		It's you who invoked the parlay! Believe me, Miss, you'd best hand it over, now... or these be the last friendly words you'll hear!
elizabeth		Our bargain. . ?
bosun		Still the guns, and stow 'em! Signal the men, set the flags, and make good to clear port!
elizabeth		Wait! You must return me to shore! According to the rules of the Order of the Brethren -
barbossa		First. Your return to shore was not part of our negotiations nor our agreement, and so I 'must' do nothing. Secondly: you must be a pirate for the pirate's code to apply. And you're not. And thirdly...
will		Miss Swann! Elizabeth!
will		They've taken her! They've taken Elizabeth!
norrington		We're aware of the situation.
will		We have to hunt them down -- and save her!
swann		Where do you propose we start? If you have any information that concerns my daughter, then share it! If anyone does, tell me!  Leave, Mr. Turner.
murtogg		That Jack Sparrow... he talked about the Black Pearl.
mullroy		Mentioned it, is more what he did.
murtogg		Still --
will		We can ask him where it is -- maybe he can lead us to it!
will		We could strike a bargain -
norrington		No. The pirates who invaded   this fort left Sparrow locked in   his cell. Ergo, he is not their   ally, and therefore of no value.  We will determine their most likely course, and launch a   search mission that sails with the   tide.
will		That's not good enough. This is Elizabeth's life!
norrington		Mr. Turner, this is not the time for rash actions.  Now, go home.
will		Are you familiar with that ship? The Black Pearl?
jack		Somewhat.
will		Where does it make berth?
jack		Surely you've heard the stories? The Black Pearl sails from the dreaded Isla de Mureta... an island that cannot be found -- except by those who already know where it is.
will		The ship's real enough. So its anchorage must be a real place. Where is it?
jack		Why ask me?
will		Because you're a pirate.
jack		And you want to turn pirate yourself?
will		Never.  They took Miss Swann.
jack		 So it is that you found a girl. Well, if you're intending to brave all and hasten to her rescue and so win fair lady's heart, you'll have to do it alone. I see no profit in it for me.
will		I can get you out of here.
jack		How? The key's run off.
will		 I helped build these cells. Those are hook-and-ring hinges. The proper application of strength, the door'll lift free. Just calls for the right lever and fulcrum. . .
jack		Your name is Turner.
will		Yes. Will Turner.
jack		Will Turner...  Do we have an accord?
will		Agreed.
jack		Agreed!
will		Someone will have heard that. Hurry.
jack		Not without my effects.
will		We need to go!
jack		My business, Will. As for your business -one question, or there's no use going.  This girl -- what does she mean to you? How far are you willing to go to save her?
will		 I'd die for her.
jack		Good.
will		I haven't set foot off dry land I was twelve, when the ship I was on exploded.  It's been a sound policy.
jack		No worries there. She's far more likely to rot out from under us.
will		We're going to steal a ship? That ship?
jack		Commandeer. We're going to commandeer a ship. Nautical term.
will		It's still against the law.
will		This is either crazy, or brilliant.
jack		Remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
jack		Everybody stay calm. We're taking over the ship!
will		 Aye! Avast!
jack		Dead serious.
gillette		You understand this ship cannot be crewed by only two men. You'll never make it out of the bay.
jack		We'll see about that.
gillette		Sir, I'll not see any of my men killed or wounded in this foolish enterprise.
jack		Fine by me. We brought you a nice little boat, so you can all get back to shore, safe and sound.
gillette		 Agreed. You have the momentary advantage, sir. But I will see you smile from the yard arm sir.
jack		As likely as not.  Will, short up the anchor, we've got ourselves a ship!
jack		A little help?
murtogg		I can't believe he's doing this.
mullroy		You didn't believe he was telling the truth, either.
gillette		 Do you have any idea, boy, what you're doing?
will		No.
jack		Lookee there, mate! We're underway!
swann		Commodore --
norrington		A moment.
swann		But --
norrington		Please.
swann		Dammit, man, it appears someone is stealing your ship!
norrington		Rash, Turner, too rash.
will		They're coming!
norrington		Search every cabin, every hold, down to the bilges!
jack		Can you swim?  Can. You. Swim?
sentry		Of course, sir. Like a fish. I grew up summers living in Dover, with my uncle -
jack		Good.
norrington		Sailors! Back to the Interceptor!
jack		Thank you, Commodore, for getting our ship ready to make way! We'd've had a hard time of it by ourselves!
norrington		Raise the sails.
gillette		The wind is quarter from astern ... by the time we're underway, we'll never catch them.
norrington		We need only to come about, to put them in range of the long nines.
gillette		Hands! Come about! Jackets off the cannons!  We are to fire on our own ship?
norrington		Better to see it at the bottom of the sea than in the hands of a pirate.
steersman		Captain, there's a problem.
norrington		So it would seem.
gillette		He's got to be the best pirate I've ever seen.
norrington		So it would seem.
pintel		You'll be dining with the Captain, and he requests you wear this.
elizabeth		Tell the captain that I am disinclined to acquiesce to his request.
pintel		 He said you say that! He also said if that be the case, you'll be dining with the crew, and you'll be naked.
barbossa		Maid or not, it fits you.
barbossa		Now, none of that. Please dig in.
elizabeth		It's poisoned!
barbossa		Oh, there would be no sense in killing you, Miss Turner.
elizabeth		Then why aren't you eating?
barbossa		Would that I could.
elizabeth		It's a pirate medallion.
barbossa		It's a piece of the treasure of Isla de Muerta .
elizabeth		That's all very interesting, but I hardly believe in ghost stories any more.
barbossa		You idiot girl! It's no make- believe! My crew and I, we found the gold, and we did more than take one piece, we took it all. Rich men we were and we spent it and traded it and gave it away in exchange
barbossa		Look!  LOOK! The moonlight shows us for what we really are! We are not among the living and so we cannot die -
jack		For a man whose made an industry of avoiding boats, you're a quick study.
will		I worked passage   from England as a cabin boy.  After my mother  passed, I came out here ... looking  for my father.
jack		Is that so?
will		My father. William Turner?
jack		I knew him. Probably one of the few who knew him as William Turner. Most everyone just called him Bill, or 'Bootstrap' Bill.
will		'Bootstrap?'
jack		Good man. Good pirate. And clever -"- I never met anyone with as clever a mind and hands as him. When you were puzzling out that cell door, it was like seeing his twin.
will		 That's not true.
jack		I swear, you look just like him.
will		It's not true that my father was a pirate.
jack		Figured you wouldn't want to hear it.
will		He was a merchant marine! He was a respectable man who obeyed the law, and followed the rules--
jack		 You think your father is the only man who ever lived the Glasgow life, telling folk one thing, and then going off to do another? There's quite a few who come here, hoping to amass enough swag to ease the burdens of respectable
will		My father did not think of my mother -his family -- as a burden.
jack		Sure -- because he could always go pirating.
will		My father -- was not -- a pirate!
jack		Put it away, Will. It's not worth getting beat again.
will		You didn't beat me. You ignored the rules of engagement. In a fair fight, I'd kill you.
jack		Then that's not much incentive for me to fight fair, is it?
will		Tortuga?
jack		Oh -- did I forget to mention that?
will		Just do it quickly.
jack		 Don't worry. I've already got my Quartermaster -- there!
anamaria		You stole my boat.
jack		AnaMaria! Have you seen Gibbs? I need to put together -
anamaria		My dory. The Jolly Mon. Where is it?
jack		Safe! At Port Royal. With the Royal Navy.
anamaria		That boat is my livelihood!
jack		You'll get it back. Or one better.
anamaria		 I will.
will		Jack! Over here!
gibbs		Curse you for breathing, you slack-jawed idiot  Mother's love, Jack, you know better than to wake a man when he's sleeping. It's bad luck!
jack		Well, fortunately, I know how to counter it. The man who did the waking buys the man who was sleeping a drink, and the man who was sleeping it drinks it while listening to a proposition.
gibbs		Aye, that'll about do it.
will		I know. That was for the smell.
jack		Just the one.
gibbs		Make it_ast, then. Now, what's the nature of this venture of yours?
gibbs		Oh, there's a hard tale, Jack. Most of the decent pirates in town won't sail with you -- seem to think you're a jinx.
jack		Now where, I wonder, would they have gotten that idea?
gibbs		Say again?
jack		Ilm going after the Black Pearl. I know where its going to be, and I'm going to take it.
gibbs		Jack, it's a fool's errand: You've heard the tales they tell about the Pearl.
jack		Aye, and that's why I know where it's going to be, and that's why I know what Barbossa is up to. All I need is a crew.
gibbs		 A fool's errand.
gibbs		And you've got that, have you?
jack		Back there, guarding the door is the son of old Bootstrap Bill Turner.
gibbs		Well, lookee there. I'll allow you may be onto something, Jack.  There's bound to be sailors on this rock crazy as you. I'll find some men.
jack		That he is.
gibbs		Feast your eyes, Cap'n. All of 'em good sea-faring men, faithful hands before the mast, every one worth his salt --
anamaria		You owe me a boat.
gibbs		Cotton here is mute, sir. Poor devil had his tongue cut out --
jack		Mr. Cotton. Do you have the courage and fortitude to follow orders and stay true, in the face danger, and almost certain death?
cotton's parrot		Wind in your SAILS! Wind in your SAILS!
gibbs		Mostly, that seem to mean 'yes.'
will		Shut up, before you lose them all!
jack		These are the only ones worth having.  And we're going to need them-
gibbs		That fool will have us lose the canvas, and the masts besides!
jack		She can hold a bit longer.
gibbs		 What's in your head to put you in such a fine mood?
jack		 We're catching up!
twigg		Isla de Muerta! Isla de Muerta, off the port bow!
jacoby		Orders, Captain?
barbossa		Bring her in, not too close. I won't brave the reef, not until high tide. We lay anchor before dark.
jack		Bear three points starboard.
gibbs		Left handed-ropes are coiled against the sun, or it's bad luck!  Anty-clockwise.
gibbs		Now, lad, just because it don't point north don't mean it don't work.  That compass gives bearings to the Isla de Muerta, wherever it may lie.
will		Really?  So ... what's the story on the pistol?
gibbs		I'll tell lee. Now, Jack Sparrow has an honest streak in him, and that's where the whole problem starts. This was when he was Captain of the Black Pearl -
will		What? He never told me that.
gibbs		Ah -- he's learned, then. Plays things more close to the vest. See, Jack was a cartographer, back in Old England. Somehow I he came by the money to commission the Pearl. Hired himself a crew, promised each man an equal share.  That night, there was mutiny.
will		How did he get off the island?
jack		 I didn't!
gibbs		How did you get off the island?
jack		Ah, that's a dark and unpleasant tale, best left untold.
will		Wait -- what about the pistol?
jack		The pistol. When a pirate is marooned, Will, he's given a pistol with a single shot. No good for hunting, or surviving, really. But after three weeks of starvation and thirst -- the option of that pistol begins to look good.
koehler		Moonrise, Captain! First night of full.
barbossa		Hah!  Be mindful of pits and crevasses. Stay together.
barbossa		Careful, mate. Fall down there, you'd die and miss Judgement Day -- for not even the Lord himself'll come look for you here.
cotton's parrot		Land HO! Land HO! LAND ho! LAND ho!
anamaria		How does he do that?
jack		They'll be anchored on the lee side. Haul your wind, and keep to the weather of the island -
elizabeth		The curse drove you to gather this?
will		What's that?
jack		Depends.
will		On what?
jack		On whether the stories are    all true. If they are, that's    a waterfall that spills over    at high tide, with a short drop to    an underground lagoon. If not    -
jack		Chalk one up for the stories.
barbossa		Here we stand before the cursed treasure of Cortez himself. Won by blood, it demands blood in return.
barbossa		You know the first thing I'm going to do after the curse is lifted?  Eat a whole bushel of apples.
koehler		Did it work?
deadeye		I don't feel no different.
jacoby		How do we tell?
koehler		You're not dead.
jacoby		No.  He shot me!
barbossa		You. Maid. Your father. What was his name?!  Was your father William Turner?!
elizabeth		No.
barbossa		Where's his child? The child that sailed from England eight years ago, the child who is the real owner of that medallion, the child in whose veins flows the blood of William Turner?! Where?
jacoby		 You brought us the wrong person!
pintel		She had the medallion! She's the right age. She said her name was Turner!
twigg		 You brought us here for nothing?
elizabeth		You?!
jack		Me!
elizabeth		You're in league with Barbossa!
jack		No, I'm -- rescuing you.
elizabeth		You?!
will		Miss Swann! We're here to rescue you!  It's going badly!
jack		This way!
will		I'm glad we got here in time.
elizabeth		Truthfully -- you were a bit late.
jack		The trick isn't getting here, it's getting away.
elizabeth		Come on!
will		No.
jack		I'll lead them away.
will		Are you sure? Jack -- this is not something you have to do.
jack		I'm sure. When you've led the kind of life I have, there are debts that must be paid. Maybe I can balance the scales a little.
barbossa		I'm inclined to kill you now, Jack Sparrow, without so much as a word, if you don't lose that grin from your face.
jack		The woman's blood didn't work, did it?
barbossa		Say the name, or I slit your throat.
jack		No you won't.
pintel		Now?
jack		Simple. I have something you want more than anything. The way to free you from the curse of the treasure. You have something I want -- more than anything.
barbossa		The Pearl?  Oh, that's fine. And just how do you expect this to work?
jack		You give me the Pearl. Then I tell you who you need.
barbossa		That's your offer? You, sailing away nice and pretty with the Black Pearl, and all I have is a name?
jack		That's right.
barbossa		I'm supposed to ... trust you?
jack		I'm a man of my word.
barbossa		I'll torture it out of you.
jack		You left me on a desert island -- what worse can you do?
barbossa		Blast you! I'll throw you in prison.
jack		Wait as long as you like.
barbossa		You're setting me up for a double cross, you with the ship, and me with nothing more than your word!
jack		Let's say I tell you the wrong person. What would you do?
barbossa		Track you down and -
jack		And if I tell you the truth, you become mortal, and you won't come near me because you know I'd kill you.
barbossa		Jack, I don't trust you, and that's a fact. Never trust a smiling man, you can lay to that.
jack		See, that's where we're different. I trust you ... to do what it takes to get what you want.
barbossa		You're playing this as close to the edge as any man, I'll give you that. 
jack		What -- you don't have the medallion?
barbossa		That fool woman took it. You be careful around her, Jack -- she's pretty enough, she'll steal your heart -- but pure evil inside.
jack		I'll watch my back.
barbossa		Bosun! Set up Mr. Sparrow's quarters, nice and fine ... in the brig.  Meaning no disrespect, of course.
gibbs		Two women on board? A man don't have to be superstitious to know that's trouble.
elizabeth		... you were in danger ... so I took the medallion. And I've kept it ever since. They thought I was you, that they needed my blood. And it didn't work.
will		Why would my father send this to me?
elizabeth		To keep it away from them? No pirate would sail to London, for fear of Execution Dock.
will		If I had known-
elizabeth		 -- then we never would have met.
will		I can't believe he would make such a sacrifice for us.
elizabeth		I guess you can never truly know someone else's heart.
gibbs		Shift your heading, steer clear of that island. Fifteen degrees starboard.
cotton's parrot		Dead men tell NO tales! Dead men tell NO tales! Dead men tell NO tales!
anamaria		Can we outrun them?
gibbs		Not a chance. Make for the reef.
pintel		What's he doing? Is he going to run her aground?
gibbs		Drop the forward anchor!
barbossa		All hands! Prepare to come about!
jack		Don't hit my ship! I mean, kill the lying scoundrel -  I'm a little conflicted, here.
barbossa		Strike your colors, you bloody cockroaches!
anamaria		Looks like they mean to send us under.
gibbs		There -- she's raised the Jolly Roger,
will		We're not going to just surrender!
will		We can at least fight -- we might be able to kill a few-
gibbs		Will -- it'll go worse for us -- for Elizabeth, especially -- if we fight.
barbossa		Welcome back, Miss. Last time on board, you played me right clever, make pretending and all. I hope your stay this time is more pleasant. Boys, show her some hospitality!
will		She goes free!
barbossa		What's in your head, boy?
will		She. Goes. Free.
barbossa		You've got one shot -- and we can't die.
will		You can't. I can.
elizabeth		No!
will		My name is Will Turner, the son of Bootstrap Bill Turner. His blood runs in my veins.  You need my blood. And on my word I will pull this trigger, and sink all the way down to Davy Jones' Locker!
twigg		It's true - he's the spittin' image of old Bootstrap. Even talks the same!
barbossa		Looks like you're back to having nothing to offer.
pintel		And hers got Old Bill's courage. A curse on him, and you!
barbossa		Enough of that!  Name your terms.
will		Elizabeth goes free!
barbossa		We got that part. Anything else?
will		And Jack. And the crew. Free and unharmed. I f you agree... then... I will remain with you.
elizabeth		Will -- you can't trust him.
will		You must swear by the Holy Bible.
barbossa		Eh? You have my word, then -- on the Good Book, I do swear, and the Lord spare my worthless soul.
gibbs		 Amen to that...
barbossa		Jack, Elizabeth ... I'm a man of my word and you're to be set free, right quick.  Men, break out the plank!
will		No! You gave your word!
barbossa		Quiet, boy, or you'll lose your tongue. Those as know me know I wouldn't cross my word, and bring down bad luck on the ship.  I agreed to set them free. I didn't say when. .. nor where.
jack		It's pure evil to make a Captain walk the plank of his own ship, twice in one lifetime. No good can come of it.
barbossa		Now, Jack. That reef is less than a league distant. It's a square deal all around, and you can't hope for better.
jack		Someone needs to cut these bonds, then.
barbossa		You'd best take a swim, Jack.
jack		The last time you did this, you left me a pistol, with one shot.
pintel		That's proper, sir, according to the code.
barbossa		By the Powers, you're right!  Where's Jack's pistol? Who's got it? Bring it forward!
jack		A gentleman might give us two pistols, seeing as there are two of us, this time.
barbossa		Tell you what. I'll   give you one pistol, and let you   be the gentleman, an' shoot the lady,   and starve to death yourself!  That is, presuming   you're not both drownded.
jack		You can go to your grave not knowing.
barbossa		That's fair.
elizabeth		Here -- it will go well with your black heart !
barbossa		Have at her, lads!
elizabeth		You went back for that? We need to head for the reef!
jack		That's the second time I've had to watch that man sail away with my ship.
elizabeth		Has it changed since the last time you were here?
jack		The trees are taller.
elizabeth		I hope you have no intention of using that.
jack		Not yet. Ask me again in a few weeks.
elizabeth		Captain Sparrow! We have to get off this island -- immediately!
elizabeth		What is that? Is there a boat under there?
jack		It won't. It won't, and so we won't.
elizabeth		But ... you did it before! Last time -
jack		Last time, I was here a grand total of three days. Last time, the rumrunners who used this island as a cache came by, and I bartered passage off.
elizabeth		So that's it? That's the secret grand adventure of the infamous
jack		Welcome to the Caribbean, love.
elizabeth		A month? Will doesn't have a month! We've got to do something to help him!
jack		You're right.  Here's luck to you, Will Turner.
elizabeth		Not when you can drink instead, at least.
elizabeth		And you will call me Miss Swann.
jack		What? What was that?  Something funny, Miss Swann? share. Please,
elizabeth		Nothing ... it's nothing. Just ... I'm reminded of a song I learned as a child. A song about pirates.
jack		I know a lot of songs about pirates, but none I'd teach a child. Let's hear it.
elizabeth		Oh, no ... it's silly.   Back in England we didn't know   a thing about pirates, really.   They seemed so romantic and daring   -
elizabeth		Well, perhaps ... with a bit more to drink, I might ...
jack		More to drink!
elizabeth		We pillage, we plunder, we rifle, we loot, Drink up me hearties, yo ho.
jack		I LOVE this song!  Yo ho, yo ho, a pirate's life for me! We're beggars and blighters,
elizabeth		You'll be positively the most fearsome pirates to sail the Spanish Main.
jack		Not just the Spanish Main. The whole ocean. .. the whole world. Wherever we want to go, we go. That's what a ship is, you know. Not just a keel and a hull and a deck and sails. That's what a ship need_ ... but what a ship is -- what the Black Pearl really-is ... is freedom.
elizabeth		Jack, it must be so terrible for you, to be trapped here on this island, all over again.
jack		Ah, well... the company is better than last time. And the scenery has definitely improved.
jack		We've got a few bottles left ... and we've yet to tap the kegs.
elizabeth		To freedom.
jack		To the Black Pearl.
jack		What are you doing? You've burned our food, the shade -- the rum!
elizabeth		Yes, the rum is gone.
elizabeth		One, because it is a vile drink that turns even the most respectable men into scoundrels. Two -
jack		You -- you burned up the island, for a one-time chance at being spotted?
elizabeth		Exactly.
norrington		Elizabeth, I'm" relieved you're safe.  Clap him in irons. And behind his back this time.
elizabetii		Commodore, you can't do that!
norrington		You're speaking up for him again?
elizabeth		He can locate Isla de Muerta -- but I doubt he'll be willing to help us from the brig.
jack		 We had time to get to know each other.
norrington		We are bound for Port Royal, not Isla de Muerta.
elizabeth		No. The pirates have taken Will -
norrington		Your father is frantic with worry. Our mission was to rescue you and return home. That is what we shall do. Mr. Turner's fate is regrettable. But so was his decision to engage in piracy.
elizabeth		Commodore, please!
norrington		By remembering that I serve others, not only myself.
elizabeth		Commodore, I beg you -- please do this ... for me. As a wedding gift.
norrington		I am to understand that you will accept my marriage proposal on the condition I rescue Mr. Turner?
elizabeth		Not as a condition -- a request.
norrington		Free Mister Sparrow, and prepare to come about. He'll give you our heading.
jack		Congratulations, sir.
norrington		Elizabeth, I hereby withdraw my proposal.
elizabeth		What?
norrington		I know now where your heart truly lies.
elizabeth		And now I know... where yours does, as well.
norrington		You may seclude yourself in my cabin. I'm afraid we do not have any ladies' clothing aboard.
elizabeth		Then I can wear men's clothing.
norrington		That would hardly be proper.
elizabeth		Well, I am not going to stay hidden in a some cabin, 80 I suppose it's going to be heaving bosoms and bare ankles for the remainder of the voyage!
norrington		Murtogg, take our guest below, and find her some trousers, and a shirt.
pintel		That ain't going to work. That's the gun deck above yea
will		What happened to William Turner?
pintel		Ah, William Turner. Stupid blighter. He threw in with us after we relieved Jack Sparrow of his captaincy, but turned out, it never sat well with him- particularly after we found Cortes' treasure, and its peculiar condition. He thought we deserved to be cursed, for leaving ol' Jack to the fate we did. That's why he sent off a piece of the treasure -- to you, as it were: so it would never be recovered, and so cursed we_ remain.
will		And then he ran. And he's hiding out someplace where you haven't been able to find him.
pintel		That's a nice thought, to be sure, and I wager your da wishes he'd thought it hisself. But, no. See, what he'd done, _ didn't sit too well with Captain Barbossa ... so he chained a cannon to his legs and dumped him over.
barbossa		Bring him.
elizabeth		You didn't tell Commodore Norrington everything.
jack		Nor did you, I noticed.
elizabeth		He might delay the rescue ... and that would be too late.
jack		Exactly.
elizabeth		These men will be facing an enemy that seemingly cannot be killed.
jack		I have a plan. If it succeeds, then any battle will be decidedly brief ... and one-sided.
elizabeth		What's your plan?
norrington		Elizabeth -- below decks. I will not compromise your safety..
jack		Funny, I was thinking   along those lines. How about you let me   go in alone, and while you're setting   up an ambush, I'll trick the pirates out   to you.
norrington		You would do that?
jack		They left me stranded. Twice. What have you got to lose?
norrington		 Nothing I wouldn't be please to be rid of.
jack		 I knew you'd listen to reason!
jack		That chart I drew up'11 get you past the reefs. If you're steersman's good enough, that is.
norrington		I'll be at the wheel myself.
jack		I'll slip in, talk them into to come out, and you'll be free to blow holy high heaven the whole lot of them.
pintel		No reason to fret. It's just a prick of the finger and a few drops of blood.
barbossa		Turner blood doesn't flow pure in his veins.  Best play it safe, and spill it all.
pintel		I guess there is a reason to fret.
barbossa		Careful, now. You could fall in and still be wonder'n when you'll hit dirt.
will		You deserve to be cursed -- and remain cursed!
barbossa		Blast him! A pox on him, and his father, and the whole damnable line! Fan out! Find him!
cotton's parrot		Drink UP me hearties yo ho! Drink UP me hearties yo ho!
jack		Do you have any idea where you're going?
will		Jack!
jack		Don't talk. These caves magnify sound. Just follow me.
will		Are you certain this is the right way?
jack		It's the right way.
barbossa		Thank you, Jack Sparrow.
will		You did know where you were going! You did lead us directly to them!  Why?
barbossa		What was begun by blood, let blood now end!
jack		You don't want to be doing that.
barbossa		No, I really think I do.
jack		 All right then.
barbossa		Why don't I want to do this?
jack		Because, right about now, the H.M.S. Dauntless is lying in wait in the harbor.
will		Jack!
jack		- - and its guns and crew will cut you and your men to pieces the moment you step outside these caves.
pintel		Do you believe him?
barbossa		No.  But him I believe. He is genuinely angry.
jack		You've no hope of surviving Norrington's attack ... that is, if you're mortal.
barbossa		What're you suggesting?
jack		Simple. Don't kill the boy yet. Wait for a more opportune moment.
barbossa		I can't help wondering, Jack, why you're being so helpful and all? Last time you did that, it didn't end 80 well for you.
jack		The situation has changed.
barbossa		That so?
jack		Aye. See, after you're done with the Royal Navy, you'll have a bit of a problem: the H.M.S. Dauntless. There you'll be, with two lovely ships on your hands, and what to do? Of course you'll decide you deserve the bigger one, and who's to argue? The Dauntless a first-rate ship-of-line, and with it, you can rule the seas. 
barbossa		Men! Are you up for it?
jack		There's ... another exit?
barbossa		Aye, for us there is.
tall sailor		Ship rats. Big ones.
short sailor		 Hate those things.
tall sailor		That they do.
pintel		Be quick, now. Train the starboard guns on the beach, and set your aim. Wait for my signal, we don't want to spook them.
skinny		Which would you prefer first, good sir -rum, or wine?
gillette		All the men in place, sir. Ready to fire.
norrington		Wait for my order -- what the blazes is that?
will		You've been planning this from the beginning. Since you learned my name.
jack		Oh, please -- do I really seem that clever?
barbossa		Confound it, Jack -- I was actually beginning to like you!
norrington		Steady, men! Remember -- we're the Navy!
gillette		They're on our side! Take heart, men!
barbossa		Just so you know, Jack -- I don't think you're that clever. I think you're a fool. A mortal fool.
jack		Remarkable how often those two traits coincide.
barbossa		You can't beat me, Jack.
will		Jack!
jack		Well, isn't that interesting.
barbossa		So what now, Jack Sparrow? Are we to be two immortals, locked in epic battle until the trumpets of Judgment Day?
jack		Or you could surrender.
barbossa		Or I could chain you to a cannonball and drop you in the deepest part of the ocean, where you can contemplate your folly forever.
will		He didn't waste it.
will		Well, you're the worst pirate I've ever heard of.  You're a man who can be trusted, who can be counted on, and who can It betray his friends. What kind of pirate is that?
jack		 On the other hand, maybe I'm a man who can't pass up a chance for revenge against the black-hearted bastard who stole my ship and left me to die in the middle of the ocean -- twice! -- and who knows how to get what he wants. Now that's a great pirate.
will		Let's get out of here.
elizabeth		You're all right!
will		Miss Swann -- are you wearing trousers? And how did you get off the island?
elizabeth		Yes, I am wearing trousers. And as for how we got off the island -- ah, that's a grand adventure, but now is not the time to talk about it.
will		Elizabeth, I think it doesn't matter- that we are of a different class -
elizabeth		It doesn't!
will		-- but that was not a proper kiss.
jack		Tough luck. I was rooting for you.
norrington		...and though I do say so with regret, the law is clear. The penalty for piracy is death by hanging.
swann		By your leave, I wish to speak on behalf of the boy.  So in my capacity as Governor, I   intend to grant a pardon to --
gillette		Sir!
swann		The Black Pearl!
gillette		Sir! Shall I break out the cannons?
norrington		I don't think that will be necessary.
anamaria		Captain Sparrow -- the Black Pearl is yours!
jack		AnaMaria, trim the mainsail!
anamaria		Aye, aye, sir!
jack		Mr. Gibbs, organize a cleaning detail - you and Cotton. I want every inch of the Pearl spic-and-span and ship-shape!
the end		FADE OUT and CREDITS ROLL
****Dialogues from script :Pirates_of_the_Caribbean__Dead_Man_s_Chest.txt****

written by		 Ted Elliott & Terry Rossio
port royal		 [teacups on a table in the rain]  [sheet music on music stands in the rain]  [bouquet of white orchids, Elizabeth sitting in the rain holding the bouquet]
elizabeth swann		Will...!
elizabeth swann		Why is this happening?
will turner		I don't know. You look beautiful.
elizabeth swann		I think it's bad luck for the groom to see the bride before the wedding.
elizabeth swann		On what charges?
will turner		No!
elizabeth swann		*What are the charges?*  LORD CUTLER BECKETT I don't believe that's the answer to the question I asked.
will turner		Lord Beckett! In the category of questions *not* answered...
elizabeth swann		We are under the jurisdiction of the King's governor of Port Royal, and you will tell us what we are charged with.
elizabeth swann		*Captain* Jack Sparrow.  LORD CUTLER BECKETT Captain Jack Sparrow. Yes, I thought you might.
black pearl		 [views of rigging ropes and blocks aboard a ship at night]
gibbs		Fifteen men on a dead man's chest. Yo ho ho, and a *bottle* of rum. Drink and the devil had done for the rest. Yo ho ho, and a *bottle* of rum. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha!
turkish prison		 [tolling of bells, camera pans to show the crows flying toward a coastal island]
jack sparrow		Sorry, mate.
jack sparrow		Mind if we make a little side trip? I didn't think so.
black pearl		 [Jack arrives at the Black Pearl in his coffin rowboat]  [Gibbs holds out his hand to help Jack aboard, Jack puts the skeleton leg in Gibbs' hand]
gibbs		Not *quite* according to plan.
jack sparrow		Complications arose, ensued, were overcome.
gibbs		You got what you went in for, then?
jack sparrow		Mm-hmm!
gibbs		Captain, I think the crew, meaning me as well, were expecting something a bit more... *shiny*. What with the Isla de Muerta going all pear shaped, reclaimed by the sea, and the treasure with it.
leech		And the Royal Navy chasing us all around the Atlantic.
marty		And the hurricane!
crew		Aye.
gibbs		All in all, it's seems some time since we did a speck of honest pirating.
jack sparrow		Shiny?
gibbs		Aye, shiny.
jack sparrow		Is that how you're all feeling, then? Perhaps dear old Jack is not serving your best interests as captain?
cotton's parrot		Awk! Walk the plank!
jack sparrow		What did the bird say?
leech		Do not blame the bird. Show us what is on that piece of cloth there.
jack sparrow		Ohhh!  [Jack attempts to shoot the monkey with his pistol, his pistol misfires]
gibbs		Know that don't do no good.
jack sparrow		It does me.
marty		It's a key!
jack sparrow		No! Much more better. It is a *drawing* of a key.
jack sparrow		Gentlemen, what do keys do?
leech		Keys... unlock... *things*?
gibbs		And whatever this key unlocks, *inside* there's something valuable. So, we're setting out to find whatever this key unlocks!
jack sparrow		No! If we don't have the key, we can't open whatever it is we don't have that it unlocks. So what purpose would be served in finding whatever need be unlocked, which we don't have, without first having found the key what unlocks it?
gibbs		So - We're going after this key!
jack sparrow		You're not making any sense at all. Any more questions?
marty		So... Do we have a heading?
jack sparrow		Hah! A heading. Set sail in a... mmm... a general... in *that* way - direction.
gibbs		Cap'n?
jack sparrow		Come on, snap to and make sail, you know how this works. Come on, ?oy/?quick, ?oy/?quick, hey!
marty		Have you noticed lately... The captain seems to be actin' a bit strange... -er.
gibbs		Settin' sail without knowing his own headin'? Somethin's got Jack vexed. Mark my words, what bodes ill for Jack Sparrow bodes ill for us all.
guard		Lord Beckett. The prisoner as ordered, Sir.
will turner		More acquaintance than friend. How do you know him?
will turner		What mark did he leave on you?  LORD CUTLER BECKETT By your efforts Jack Sparrow was set free. I would like you to go to him, and recover a certain property in his possession.
will turner		Recover. At the point of a sword?  LORD CUTLER BECKETT *Bargain*!  [Beckett goes over to a wooden box on a table and opens it]
will turner		Somehow I doubt Jack will consider employment the same as being free.
will turner		So you get both Jack *and* the Black Pearl.
will turner		The property you want that he possesses.
black pearl		 [Jack is using calipers on a map, using his left hand, a "P" brand mark is seen on his right arm]
jack sparrow		Why is the rum always gone?
jack sparrow		Oh! *That's* why.
jack sparrow		As you were, gents.  [Jack goes downstairs to the hold, an animal bleats, Jack unlocks the door, goes in]
jack sparrow		Ah!  [Jack pulls a sideways bottle from the rack]  [Jack pours sand out of the bottle]  [Jack drops bottle of rum in fright, the bottle breaks on the floor]
jack sparrow		Bootstrap. Bill Turner.
jack sparrow		Is this a dream?
jack sparrow		I thought not. If it were, there'd be rum.
jack sparrow		I had some help retrieving the Pearl, by the way.
jack sparrow		Your son.
jack sparrow		And to what do I owe the pleasure of your carbuncle?
jack sparrow		Who?
jack sparrow		Ah. So it's you, then.  He shanghaied you into service, eh?
jack sparrow		It's funny what a man will do to forestall his final judgment -
jack sparrow		Technic -
jack sparrow		Yes, but the Flying Dutchman already *has* a captain, so there's re -
jack sparrow		Any idea when Jones might release said terrible beastie?
jack sparrow		On deck all hands! Make fast the bunt gasket! On deck! Scurry! ?Scurry-on/?Marty, I want movement!
jack sparrow		*I want movement!*
gibbs		Lift the skin up!
jack sparrow		All on deck! Run! And keep running! Run as if the devil himself and itself is upon us!
gibbs		Do we have a heading?
jack sparrow		Ah! Ooh! Run! Land.
jack sparrow		Oh! Euh!
gibbs		Which port?
jack sparrow		Didn't say port. I said land. Any land.
jack sparrow		Agh!  [the monkey snarls at Jack, Jack snarls back at the monkey, in imitation]
gibbs		Jack's hat! Bring 'er about!
jack sparrow		No no! Leave it! Run!
gibbs		Back to your stations! The lot o' ya!
gibbs		Jack?
jack sparrow		Shhh!
gibbs		For the love of mother and child, Jack, what's coming after us?
jack sparrow		Nothing.  small fishing vessel  [Jack's hat floats toward a small fishing vessel around sunrise]
turkish fisherman		Heh-heh-heh.?tupayHey! ?Fo ?pes ?sa ?kapazun kapitan ?de ?la ?mezande, huh?
greek fisherman		?Etora.
greek fisherman		Ah! ?Vangas ?da ?eroro ###
carruthers		Here now. He can't be here.
carruthers		Mister Swann, -
elizabeth swann		Jack's Compass. What does Beckett want with that?
will turner		Does it matter? I'm to find Jack and convince him to return to Port Royal. In exchange the charges against us will be dropped.
will turner		Is that lack of faith in Jack, or in me?
elizabeth swann		I have faith in you. Both of you. Where will you find him?
will turner		Tortuga. I'll start there, and I won't stop searching 'til I find him. And then I intend to return here, to marry you.
elizabeth swann		Properly?
will turner		Eagerly, if you'll still have me.
elizabeth swann		If it weren't for these bars I'd have you already.
elizabeth swann		I'll wait for you.
will turner		Keep a weather eye on the horizon.
weathered sailor		*Captain* Jack Sparrow? Owes me four dubloons. Heard he was dead.
giselle		Jack Sparrow!
scarlett		I haven't seen 'im in a month.
giselle		When you find him, will you give him a message?
shrimper		Cannot say about Jack Sparrow. But dere's a island, just south of de straits, where I trade spice for... mmm... delicious long pork. Cannot say about Jack. But you find a ship dere. A ship wit' black sails.
cannibal island		beach
shrimper		My brother will take you ashore.
will turner		What's wrong? The beach is right there.
shrimper's brother		?: Ne bougeais pas, c'est trop dangereux.
will turner		What?
shrimper's brother		?: Je ne peux, c'est trop dangereux, j'avais le dit. Bon voyage, monsieur.
will turner		Jack! Jack Sparrow!
will turner		Marty! Cotton! Anybody?
cotton's parrot		Awk!
will turner		Ah! A familiar face!
cotton's parrot		Rawk! Don't eat me!
will turner		I'm not gonna eat you.
cotton's parrot		Don't eat me! No! Don't eat me! Akkk!
will turner		Gibbs.  [Will follows the string attached to the canteen, over toward a large tree]
will turner		Euh! Unh! Ya! Come on! Let's go! Euh! Ya! Come on! Who wants it? Unh! I could do this all day! Euh! Euh! Hah!
cannibal island		throne
will turner		Jack? Jack Sparrow! I can honestly say I'm glad to see you!
will turner		Jack! It's me! Will Turner!
jack sparrow		?: Wa-say kohn.
cannibal crowd		Eeseepi.
will turner		Tell 'em to let me down.
jack sparrow		Kay-lay lam. Lam piki-piki. Lam eensy weensy. Lam say-say... eunuchy. Snip-snip.
cannibal crowd		Ahhh... eunuchy!  [Jack begins to walk away, as if disinterested, his Compass hangs from his waist]
will turner		Jack! The Compass! That's all I need, Elizabeth is in danger. We were arrested for trying to help *you*. She faces the gallows!
jack sparrow		Say-say lam shoop-shoop sha smalay-lama shoo-koo. Savvy? Ball licky-licky.
cannibal crowd		Ball licky-licky!
cannibal crowd		?Boom-shoo-boom, ?boom-shoo-boom, ?boom-shoo-boom...
jack sparrow		Save me!
will turner		Jack, what did you tell them? No! What about Elizabeth? *Jack...!*
prisoners		...we don't bite...Come on...
elizabeth swann		Why don't you tell me what's happening?
elizabeth swann		No! Will has gone to find Jack!
elizabeth swann		He's a better man than you give him credit for.
elizabeth swann		A fair trial for Will ends in a hanging.
mercer		Evening, Governor.  Shame, huh? He was carryin' this. It's a letter to the King. It's from *you*.
mercer		Where is she?  [Mercer grabs the governor by the lapels, pushes him up against the side of the carriage]
port royal		EITC headquarters  [darkened room]  [Beckett walks in from the balcony, carrying a lantern]  [Beckett walks to a table, opens a wooden box, finds the Letters of Marque missing]
elizabeth swann		Then what is?  LORD CUTLER BECKETT I'm afraid that *currency* is the currency of the realm.
elizabeth swann		I expect then that we can come to some sort of understanding. I'm here to negotiate.
elizabeth swann		These Letters of Marque, they are signed by the King?
elizabeth swann		Or else I would not still be here. You sent Will to get you the Compass owned by Jack Sparrow. It will do you no good.
elizabeth swann		I have been to Isla de Muerta, I have seen the treasure myself. There is something you need to know.
elizabeth swann		Consider into your calculations that you robbed me of my wedding night.
elizabeth swann		These aren't going to Jack.  LORD CUTLER BECKETT Oh really. To ensure Mister Turner's freedom, then? I'll still want that Compass. Consider that in your calculations.
ragetti		Well I say it was divine providence what escaped us from jail.
pintel		And I say... it was me bein' *clever*. Ain't that right, poochie?
ragetti		?: Well how'dya know it ?weren't/?wasn't divine providence what inspired you to *be* clever? Anyways, I ain't stealin' no ship.
pintel		It ain't stealin'. It's *salvagin'*! And since when did you care?
ragetti		Since we're not immortal no more. We gotta take care of our immortal souls.
pintel		You know you can't read.
ragetti		It's the Bible. You get credit for trying.
pintel		Pretendin' to read the Bible's a *lie*! *That's* a mark against ya!  Look! There it is!
ragetti		What's got into *'im*?
pintel		Must've seen a catfish. Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh.
ragetti		Stupid mongrel!
cannibal island		beach
pintel		Come on! Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Ha-ha-ha-ha... ###
pintel		It's ours for the taking!
ragetti		Tide's comin', that should help. Well, salvagin' is saving, in a manner of speaking.
pintel		There's the truth of *it*! ###
ragetti		Suppose we be'er... save it as soon as we can. What with our souls in such a vulnerable state, and all.
pintel		Amen to that.
cannibal island		throne
jack sparrow		Thank you.  [Jack looks at the toe, bites off part of the nail to trim it]
cannibal island		cages
will turner		Why would he do this to us? If Jack is their chief.
gibbs		Aye, the Pelegostos made Jack their chief. But he only remains chief as long as he *acts* like a chief.
will turner		So he had no choice. He's a captive then as much as the rest of us.
gibbs		Worse... as it turns out. See, the Pelegostos believe that Jack is a *god* in human form, and they intend to do him the honor of releasing him from his fleshy prison.
gibbs		?Argh! They'll roast him and eat him.
will turner		Where's the rest of the crew?
gibbs		These cages we're in... weren't built 'til *after* we got here.
gibbs		The feast is about to begin. Jack's life will end... when the drums stop.
will turner		Well, we can't just sit here and wait then, can we?
cannibal island		throne
jack sparrow		?No/?Oup! No no! ?Oy!/?Wait! No no! More wood! Big fire! *Big* fire! I am chief! Want big fire! Come on!
jack sparrow		?Oy!/?Boy! Maboogie snickel-snickel. Tout de suite! Come on! More wood!
cannibal island		Jack
jack sparrow		Oh bugger.  [Jack drops his coil of rope, sprinkles paprika on his armpits]
jack sparrow		Little seasoning. Eh?  [Jack is now tied up to a bamboo pole and hanging face down over a pile of wood]
jack sparrow		Well done.
cannibal island		cages
gibbs		Put your legs through, start to climb! Agh!
will turner		Come on men! It'll take all ?of-us/?the-rest to crew the Black Pearl!
leech		Actually, you won't need everyone. 'Bout six would do!  Ohhh... dear.
will turner		Hurry!
will turner		Stop!
leech		Shhh!
cannibal island		throne
cannibal crowd		Ahhh! Fye-fye!
jack sparrow		Well, go on! Go get them! Hay ala!
cannibal crowd		Hay ala!  Ala, ala!  [cannibals run off to chase after men who escaped from cages]
jack sparrow		No! No no! Oy! No no!
jack sparrow		Not good.
cannibal island		cage
will turner		Cut it loose! Find a rock!
will turner		Roll the cage!  [the cage rolls down the hill]  [the cage falls over the edge of a tiny cliff]  [the cage rolls down the hill, rolls up a coconut palm trunk, crashes to the ground, unbroken]
will turner		Lift the cage! Hurry!
gibbs		Come on, men! Lift it like a lady's skirt!
cannibal island		hut
cannibal island		cage  [the cage rolls over a ledge into a small chasm holding a river]
gibbs		This way, lads!
cannibal island		Jack
cannibal woman		?A-geev-nee. Uh-boogie?
jack sparrow		Bugger.
cannibal island		beach
pintel		?Pull-loose/?Unloose the mooring lines! The mooring lines!
ragetti		?Thief/?Thing! Little hairy ?thief/?thing! Give it back!  Don't bite it!
pintel		?Unloose the mooring lines!
ragetti		He's got me eye! He won't give it back!
pintel		Well, how'd you get it back last time?
gibbs		Excellent work! Work's half done!
pintel		We done it for you! Knowin' you'd be comin' back for us.
gibbs		?Make/?Making ?ready ?to?sail/?cast-off ###, boy.
will turner		What about Jack? I won't leave without him.
jack sparrow		Hey!  [Jack appears at a distance, running down the beach toward the crew and ship]
will turner		Time to go.
gibbs		*Cast off those lines!*
jack sparrow		Good doggie! ?Doggie.
jack sparrow		*Alas*, my children! This is the day you shall always remember as the day that you almost -
jack sparrow		...Captain Jack... Sparrow.
gibbs		Let's put some distance between us and this island, and head out to open sea.
jack sparrow		Yes to the first, yes to the second, but only insofar as we keep to the shallows as much as possible.
gibbs		Uh, that seems a bit contradictory, Captain.
jack sparrow		I have every faith in your reconciliatory navigational skills, Master Gibbs, now where is that monkey? I want to shoot *something*.
will turner		Jack.
jack sparrow		Ah.
will turner		Elizabeth is in danger.
jack sparrow		Have you considered keeping a more watchful eye on 'er? Maybe just lock her up somewhere.
will turner		She *is* locked up, in a prison, bound to hang for helping *you*!
jack sparrow		There comes a time when one must take responsibility for one's mistakes.
will turner		I need that Compass of yours, Jack. I must trade it for her freedom.
jack sparrow		Mister Gibbs!
gibbs		Cap'n.
jack sparrow		We have a need to travel upriver.
gibbs		By need, d'you mean a... trifling need, ?uh/?a... fleeting, as in say in a passing fancy?
jack sparrow		No, a... resolute and unyielding need.
will turner		What we need to do is make sail for Port Royal with all haste.
jack sparrow		William... I shall trade you the Compass, if you will help me... to find *this*.
will turner		You want me to find this?
jack sparrow		No. *You* want you to find this. Because the finding this finds you incapacitorially finding and/or locating and your discovering the detecting of a way to save your ?dolly/?dotty belle ol'... what's-her-face. Savvy?
will turner		This... is going to save Elizabeth?
jack sparrow		How much do you know about Davy Jones?
will turner		Not much.
jack sparrow		Yeah, it's gonna save Elizabeth.
bellamy		What's all this? If you both fancy the dress, you'll just have to share, and wear it one after the other.
bursar		It's not like that, Sir. This ship is haunted.
bellamy		Is it now? 'N' you?
quartermaster		The... female presence... amongst us, yes... all the men... they can feel it.
bursar		I say... that we throw the dress overboard, and we hope the spirit finds it.
quartermaster		No! That - that will just anger the spirit, Sir. What we need to do is find out what the spirit needs, and then just get it back!
bellamy		Enough! Enough! You're a pair of superstitious goats and it's got the best of you. Now this appears to be no more as we have a stowaway aboard. A young woman, by the look of it. I want you to search the ship and find 'er. Oh, and uh... she's probably naked.
will turner		Why is Jack afraid of the open ocean?
gibbs		Well, if you believe such things, there's a beast does the bidding of Davy Jones. A fearsome creature with giant tentacles that suction your face clean off. And drag an entire ship past the crushing darkness. The Kraken!
gibbs		They say the stench of its breath is like - ooh! Imagine: The last thing you know on God's green earth is the roar of the Kraken, and the reeking odor of a thousand rotting corpses. If you believe such things.
will turner		And the key will spare him that?
gibbs		Now that's the very question Jack wants answered. Bad enough even to go visit... *Her*.
will turner		Her?
gibbs		Aye.
bayou		Tia's shack
jack sparrow		No worries, mates. Tia Dalma and I go way back. Thick as thieves. Nigh inseparable we are. Were. Have been. Before.
gibbs		I'll watch your back.
jack sparrow		It's me front I'm worried about. Mind the boat.
gibbs		Mind the boat.
pintel		Mind the boat.
marty		Mind the boat.
cotton's parrot		Awk! Mind the boat!
tia dalma		Jack Sparrow!
jack sparrow		Tia Dalma!
tia dalma		I always know de wind was goin' blow you back to me one day.
tia dalma		You. You have a touch of... destiny about *you*, William Turner.
will turner		You know me?
tia dalma		You want to know *me*.
jack sparrow		There'll be no knowing here. We've come for help and we're not leaving without it.
jack sparrow		I thought *I* knew you.
tia dalma		Not so well as I had hoped. Come.
jack sparrow		Come.
tia dalma		What... service... may I do you? Hmmm? You know I demand payment.
jack sparrow		I brought payment.  [Jack whistles once, a crewmember brings in the monkey in a cage]
jack sparrow		Look!  [Jack cocks his pistol, shoots the monkey, the bullet has no effect, but the monkey chatters in fright]
jack sparrow		An undead monkey! Top that!
gibbs		No! You've no idea how long it took us to catch that.
tia dalma		The payment is fair.
jack sparrow		We're looking for this.  And what it goes to.
tia dalma		The Compass you bartered from me. It cannot lead you to dis?
jack sparrow		Maybe. Why?
tia dalma		Ayeee... Jack Sparrow does not know what he wants! Or... do know, but are loathe to claim it as your own. Your key go to a chest, and it is what lay inside the chest you seek, don't it?
gibbs		What *is* inside?
pintel		Gold! Jewels? Unclaimed properties of a valuable nature?
ragetti		Nothing... bad, I hope.  [a jar of eyeballs is hanging next to Ragetti's face as he speaks]
tia dalma		You know of... Davy Jones, yes? A man of de sea. A great sailor, until he ran afoul of dat which vex all men.
will turner		What vexes all men?
tia dalma		What, indeed.
gibbs		The sea?
pintel		Sums!
ragetti		Dichotomy of good and evil.
jack sparrow		A *woman*.
tia dalma		A wo-*man*. He fell in love.
gibbs		No-no-no-no, I heard it was the *sea* he fell in love with.
tia dalma		Same story, different versions, and all are true. See, it was a *woman*, as changing, and harsh, and untamable as the sea. Him never stopped loving her. But the pain it cause 'im was too much to live wid. But not enough to cause him to die.
will turner		What... exactly did he put into the chest?
tia dalma		Him heart.
ragetti		Literally, or figuratively?
pintel		He couldn't li'erally put his heart in a chest!  Could he?
tia dalma		It was not wort' feeling what... small fleeting joy life brings, and so... he carved out him heart, lock it away in a chest, and hide de chest from de world. De keys, he keep wid him at all times.
will turner		You knew this.
jack sparrow		I did not. I didn't know where the key was. But now we do. So all that's left is to climb aboard the Flying Dutchman, grab the key, you go back to Port Royal and save your bonnie lass, hey!
tia dalma		Let me see your hand.  [Jack shows his right hand is untouched, but Tia unwraps the bandage on his left hand]
gibbs		Uhhh! The black spot!
jack sparrow		My eyesight's as good as ever, just so you know.
tia dalma		I am justMy little ###, where are you? ###
tia dalma		Davy Jones cannot make port. Cannot step on land but once every ten years. Land is where you are safe, Jack Sparrow. And so you will carry land wid you...
jack sparrow		Dirt. This is a jar of dirt.
tia dalma		Yes?
jack sparrow		Is the... jar of dirt going to help?
tia dalma		If you don' want it, give it back.
jack sparrow		No.
tia dalma		Den it helps.
will turner		It seems... we have a need to find the Flying Dutchman.
tia dalma		A touch... of destiny!  [Tia throws the crab claws down on the table to see how they fall]
will turner		That's the Flying Dutchman? She doesn't look like much.
jack sparrow		Neither do you. Do *not* underestimate her.
gibbs		Must've run afoul of the reef.
jack sparrow		So what's your plan, then?
will turner		I row over, search the ship until I find your bloody key.
jack sparrow		And if there are crewmen?
will turner		I cut down anyone in my path.
jack sparrow		I like it. Simple, easy to remember.
ragetti		Your chariot awaits you, sire! Ha, ha-ha-ha, ha-ha!
jack sparrow		Hey! If you *do* happen to get captured, just say Jack Sparrow sent you to settle his debt! Might save your life!
ragetti		Bon voyage! Ha-ha-ha!
jack sparrow		Douse the lamps.
scuttled ship		before attack  [Will goes aboard the ship, lantern in hand]  [Will passes one dead crewman at deck level, proped up behind net-like rigging]
wounded sailor		...up the...
will turner		Sailor!
wounded sailor		...the stench...capsized...
will turner		Sailor!
wounded sailor		...bring a...
will turner		There's no use. You've run aground.
wounded sailor		No! Beneath us! Foul breath!  [behind Will, a crewmember's body falls from a height, splashing into the water]
will turner		Hey! Hey!
greenbeard		Down on your marrowbones, and pray.
will turner		Get back! Back!  [Will slices open the stomach of one of the invaders, fish spill out of it onto the deck]
scuttled ship		after attack
maccus		Five men still alive. The rest have moved on.
davy jones		Do you fear death?  Do you fear that dark abyss? All your deeds laid bare. All your sins punished.  I can offer you... an escape-uh.
chaplain		Don't listen to him!  [Jones walks over to the chaplain, takes the chaplain's head in his claw]
davy jones		Do you not fear death?
chaplain		I'll take my chances, Sir.
davy jones		To the depths.
davy jones		Life is cruel.  Why should the afterlife be any *different*? I offer you a choice. Join my crew, and postpone the judgment. One hundred years before the mast. Will ye serve?
helmsman		I - I will, serve.
davy jones		?Grand.
davy jones		*You* are neither dead nor dying. What is your purpose here?
will turner		Jack Sparrow sent me to settle his debt.
davy jones		What is your purpose here?
will turner		Jack Sparrow. He sent me to settle his debt.
davy jones		Huh! Did he, now? I'm sorely tempted to accept that offer.
jack sparrow		Oh.
davy jones		You have a debt to pay. You've been captain of the Black Pearl for thirteen years. *That* was our agreement.
jack sparrow		Technically, I was only captain for two years, then I was viciously mutinied upon.
davy jones		Then you were a poor captain, but a *captain* nonetheless! Have you not introduced yourself all these years as *Captain* Jack Sparrow?
jack sparrow		You have my payment. One soul to serve on your ship is already over there.
davy jones		One soul is not equal to another.
jack sparrow		Aha! So we've established my proposal is sound in principle, now we're just haggling over price.
davy jones		Price? Pttt!
jack sparrow		Just how many souls do you think my soul is worth?
davy jones		One hundred souls, three days-uh.
jack sparrow		You're a diamond, mate. Send me back the boy, I'll get started right off.
davy jones		I keep the boy. A good-faith payment. That leaves you only ninety-nine more to go. Ha ha! Ha ha! Ha ha!
jack sparrow		Have you not met Will Turner? He's noble, heroic, *terrific* soprano. Worth at least four... maybe three and a half. And did I happen to mention... he's in love. With a girl. Due to be married. Betrothed.  Dividing him from her and her from him... would only be half as cruel as actually allowing them be joined in holy matrimony. Aye?
davy jones		I keep the boy. Ninety-nine souls-uh. But I wonder, Sparrow, can you live with this? Can you condemn an innocent man - a friend-uh - to a lifetime of servitude, in your name while you roam free?
jack sparrow		Yep! I'm good with it. Should we seal it in blood? I mean... mm-mm - ink?
jack sparrow		Uh!
davy jones		Three days.  Three days.
jack sparrow		Oh, Mr. Gibbs.
gibbs		Aye.
jack sparrow		Uh, I feel sullied and unusual.
gibbs		And how do you intend to harvest these ninety-nine souls in three days?
jack sparrow		Fortunately, he was mum as the condition in which these souls need be.
gibbs		Ah... Tortuga!
jack sparrow		Tortuga.
bellamy		It's an outrage. Port tariffs, berthing fees, *wharf* handling, and heaven help us, pilotage. Are we all to work for the East India Trading Company, then?
quartermaster		I'm afraid, Sir... Tortuga is the only free port left in these waters.
bellamy		A *pirate* port is what you mean. Well, I'm sorry. An honest sailor is what I am. I make my living fair, and I sleep well each night, thank you.
bursar		S-S-Sir!
bursar		She wants you to... do something.
bellamy		She's tryna give a sign.  [the dress sweeps over a lantern, knocking it over and part of the deck ignites]
bellamy		Over there! Look for a sign!  [the crew rush to the railing and look out at the sea]  [Elizabeth, up on the mast overhead, sighs in exasperation]
quartermaster		Look there! There it is. There's the sign.
quartermaster		S-Seaweed can be a sign.
elizabeth swann		What's that over there?
gibbs		And what makes you think you're worthy to crew the Black Pearl?
elderly man		Truth be told, I never sailed a day in me life. I figure I should get out and see the world while I'm still young.
gibbs		You'll do. Make your mark. Next!
jilted man		My wife ran off with my dog. And I'm drunk for a month. And I don't give a ass rat's if I live or die.
gibbs		Perfect! Next!
gibbs		It's the crow's nest for you.
jack sparrow		I know what I want.
gibbs		Next!
romantic man		Ever since I was a little lad, I've always wanted to sail the seas. Forever.
gibbs		Sooner than you think. Sign the roster.
romantic man		Thanks very much.
jack sparrow		How we going?
gibbs		Including those four? That gives us - four!
gibbs		And what's *your* story?
norrington		My story... it's exactly the same as your story, just one chapter behind. I chased a man across the Seven Seas. The pursuit cost me my crew, my commission, and my life.
gibbs		Commodore?
norrington		No, not anymore, weren't you *listening*? I nearly had you all, off Tripoli. I would have, if not for the... hurricane.
gibbs		Lord. You didn't try to sail through it?
norrington		So do I make your crew, or not? You haven't said where you're going. Somewhere *nice*!
norrington		So am I *worthy* to serve under Captain Jack Sparrow?
norrington		Or should I just kill you now?  [Jack ducks back and forth behind both sides of a large post, as Norrington points his pistol at Jack]
jack sparrow		You're hired.
norrington		Sorry. Old habits and all that.
jack sparrow		Time to go?
gibbs		Aye!
jack sparrow		Thanks, mate.  [Jack slaps him on the shoulder, the man falls backwards off the balcony]
jack sparrow		Carry on.  Heave!  [the two men throw the carried man off the balcony, then Jack continues on his way]
norrington		Come on, men! Who wants some? Form an orderly line, I'll have you all one by one. Come on, who's first?
elizabeth swann		I just wanted the pleasure of doing that myself!
elizabeth swann		James Norrington.  What has the world done to you?
will turner		Step aside!
davy jones		Will you now? And what would prompt such an act of charity?
davy jones		Ha ha ha ha! Ha ha! What fortuitous circumstance be this! Five lashes be owed. I believe it is.
davy jones		The cat's out of the bag, Mister Turner. Your issue will feel its sting be it the Bo'sun's hand, by your own.
davy jones		Bo'sun!  [Bootstrap reluctantly takes the whip]  [two crewmen tear Will's shirt off, exposing his bare back]
will turner		I don't need your help!
will turner		So I'm to understand what *you* did was an act of compassion?
flying dutchman		below deck  [Bootstrap and Will enter the interior of the ship together]
will turner		I've sworn no oath.
will turner		Not until I find this. The key.
wyvern		The deadman's chest.
will turner		What do you know of this?
wyvern		Open the chest with the key, and stab the heart. No-no-no-no. Don't stab the heart. The Dutchman needs a living heart, or there'll be no captain. And if there's no captain, there's no one to have the key.
will turner		So the captain has the key.  [Wyvern retracts his head back into the wall, having said too much]
will turner		Where *is* the key?
wyvern		Hidden.
will turner		Where is the chest?
wyvern		Hidden.
elizabeth swann		Captain Sparrow!
jack sparrow		Come to join me crew, lad? Welcome aboard.
elizabeth swann		I'm here to find the man I love.
jack sparrow		I'm deeply flattered, son, but my first and only love is the sea.
elizabeth swann		Meaning William Turner, Captain Sparrow.
jack sparrow		Elizabeth.  Hide the rum.  [Gibbs takes the bottle that Jack hands to him, and walks up the boarding plank in the background]
jack sparrow		You know, these clothes do not flatter you at all. It should be a dress or nothing. I happen to have no dress in my cabin.
elizabeth swann		Jack. I know Will came to find you. Where is he?
jack sparrow		Darling, I am truly unhappy to have to tell you this but... through an unfortunate and *entirely* unforeseeable series of circumstances that have nothing whatsoever to do with me, poor William has been press-ganged into Davy Jones' crew.
elizabeth swann		Davy Jones?
norrington		Oh, please. The captain of the Flying Dutchman.
jack sparrow		You look bloody awful. What are you doing here?
norrington		You *hired* me. I can't help it if your standards are lax.
jack sparrow		You *smell* funny.
elizabeth swann		Jack. All I want is to find Will.
jack sparrow		Are you certain? Is that what you really want most?
elizabeth swann		'Course.
jack sparrow		Because I would think, you'd want to find a way to *save* Will the most.
elizabeth swann		And you have a way of doing that?
jack sparrow		Well, there is a chest...
norrington		Oh, dear.
jack sparrow		A chest of unknown size and origin.
pintel		What contains the still-beating heart o' Davy Jones.
ragetti		Unh-unh... unh-unh... unh-unh...
jack sparrow		And whoever possesses that chest possesses the leverage to command Jones to do whatever it is he or she wants, including... saving brave William from his grim fate.
norrington		You don't actually believe him, do you?
elizabeth swann		How do we find it?
jack sparrow		With this. My Compass... is unique.
norrington		"Unique" here having the meaning of broken.
jack sparrow		True enough. This Compass does not point north.
elizabeth swann		Where does it point?
jack sparrow		It points to the thing you want most in this world.
elizabeth swann		Oh Jack! Are you telling the truth?
jack sparrow		Every word, love. And what you want most in this world is to find the chest of Davy Jones, is it not?
elizabeth swann		To save Will?
jack sparrow		By finding the chest of Davy Jones.
jack sparrow		Mister Gibbs!
gibbs		Cap'n.
jack sparrow		We have our heading.
gibbs		Finally! Cast off those lines, weigh anchor, and prow that canvas!
jack sparrow		Miss Swann.
gibbs		###
pintel		Welcome to the crew, former Commodore! Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh-heh...
port royal		EITC headquarters
mercer		Most recently seen on the island of Tortuga, then left, in the company of a known pirate, Jack Sparrow. *And* other fugitives from justice.
flying dutchman		deck
maccus		I wager... ten years.
greenbeard		Agreed.
will turner		I understand.
will turner		It's a game of deception. Your bet includes all the dice, not just your own.
will turner		What are they wagering?
will turner		So any crewman can be challenged?
will turner		I challenge Davy Jones.
davy jones		I accept ?that-uh.
davy jones		The stakes?
will turner		My soul. An eternity of servitude.
davy jones		Against?
will turner		I want this.
davy jones		How do you know of the key?
will turner		That's not part of the game, is it? You can still walk away.
davy jones		What's this?
will turner		No! Don't do this.
davy jones		Four fours.
will turner		Four fives.
davy jones		Seven fives-uh.
will turner		Eight fives.
davy jones		Huh huh huh. Welcome to the crew, liar.
davy jones		And be called a liar myself for my trouble? Bootstrap Bill, you're a liar and you will spend an eternity on this ship! Master Turner, feel free to go ashore... the very next time we make port!
will turner		Fool. Why did you do that?
will turner		It was never about winning, or losing.
flying dutchman		organ room  [nighttime on deck of the Flying Dutchman]  [Will emerges from a hatch on deck]  [Will sneaks past one one the crew on deck, who is sleeping with a bottle in his hand]
flying dutchman		deck
will turner		It's not a fate you had to choose for yourself, either.
will turner		They'll know you helped me.
will turner		I take this with a promise. I'll find a way to sever Jones' hold on you. And not rest until this blade pierces his heart. I will not abandon you. I promise.
gibbs		Beckett!
elizabeth swann		Yes, they're signed, Lord Cutler Beckett of the East India Trading Company.
jack sparrow		Agh.
gibbs		Will was working for Beckett, and never said a word.
jack sparrow		Agh.
gibbs		Beckett wants the Compass. Only one reason for that.
jack sparrow		Of course. He wants the chest.
elizabeth swann		Yes, he did say something about a chest.
gibbs		If the company controls the chest, they controls the sea.
jack sparrow		A truly discomforting notion, love.
gibbs		And bad. Bad for every mother's son what calls himself a pirate. I think there's a bit more speed to be coaxed from these sails. Brace the foreyard!
jack sparrow		Might I inquire how as to how you came by these?
elizabeth swann		Persuasion.
jack sparrow		Friendly?
elizabeth swann		Decidedly not.
jack sparrow		Will strikes a deal for these and upholds it with honor. Yet you're the one standing here with the prize. Full pardon, commission as a privateer on behalf of England and the East India Trading Company. As if I could be bought for such a low price.
elizabeth swann		Jack, the Letters, give them back.
jack sparrow		No. Persuade me.
elizabeth swann		You do know Will taught me how handle a sword.
jack sparrow		As I said... Persuade me.  [Elizabeth walks away frustrated, leans on the ship's railing]
norrington		It's a curious thing. There was a time when I would've given anything for you to look like that while thinking about me.
elizabeth swann		I don't know what you mean.
norrington		Oh, I think you do.
elizabeth swann		Oh, don't be absurd. I trust him, that's all.
norrington		So you never wondered how your *latest* fianc ended up on the Flying Dutchman in the first place?
bellamy		Strange thing to come upon a longboat so far out in open waters.
will turner		Just put as many leagues behind us as you can. As fast as you can.
bellamy		And what are we running from?  [Will sees Elizabeth's white wedding dress on a chair in the cabin]
will turner		That dress. Where did you get it?
bellamy		It was found aboard the ship. The crew it thought it was a spirit bringing some omen of ill fate.
will turner		That's foolish.
quartermaster		Oh, yes. ?Proceededly foolish.
bursar		It brought good fortune! The spirit told us... Put in at Tortuga. And we made a nice bit of profit there.
will turner		I imagine... some of your crew may have jumped ship there.
bellamy		Why do you ask?
messenger sailor		Captain, a ship's been spotted.
bellamy		Colors?
messenger sailor		She isn't flyin' any.
bellamy		Pirates!
will turner		Or worse.
flying dutchman		deck
davy jones		You will watch this.  [crewmen are whipped, in order to turn a large screw that raises the Kraken summoning device]
davy jones		Let no joyful voice be heard! Let no man look up at the sky with hope! And let this day be cursed by we who ready to wake... the *Kraken*!
will turner		I've doomed us all.  It's the Flying Dutchman!
bursar		Oh, Mother Cary's chickens. What happened?
flying dutchman		deck
maccus		The boy's not here. He must've been claimed by the sea.
davy jones		*I* am the sea.
davy jones		You need time alone with your thoughts.
davy jones		There are no survivors.
davy jones		The chest is no longer safe. Chart a course to Isla Cruces. Get me there first, or there'll be the devil to pay.
koleniko		First?
davy jones		Who sent that thieving charlatan onto my ship? Who told them of the key? Jack Sparrow.
jack sparrow		My tremendous intuitive sense of the female creature informs me that you are troubled.
elizabeth swann		I just thought I'd be married by now. I'm so ready to be married.
jack sparrow		You know...  Lizzy... I *am*... captain of a ship. And *being* captain of a ship, I could in fact perform a... marriage. Right here. Right on this deck. Right... *now*!
elizabeth swann		No, thank you.
jack sparrow		Why not? We *are* very much alike, you and I. I and you. Us.
elizabeth swann		Oh. Except for a sense of honor, and decency and-and a moral center. And personal hygiene.
jack sparrow		Trifles. You *will* come over to my side, I know it.
elizabeth swann		You seem very certain.
jack sparrow		One word love: curiosity. You long for freedom. You long to do what you want to do because you want it. To act on selfish impulse. You want to see what it's like. One day, you won't be able to resist.
elizabeth swann		Why doesn't your Compass work?
jack sparrow		Uh my Compass works fine.
elizabeth swann		Because you and I *are* alike, and there will come a moment when you have a chance to show it. To do the right thing.
jack sparrow		I *love* those moments. I like to wave at them as they pass by.
elizabeth swann		You'll have the chance to do something... something courageous. And when you do, you'll discover something: that you're a good man.
jack sparrow		All evidence to the contrary.
elizabeth swann		I have faith in you. Want to know why?
jack sparrow		Do tell, dearie.
elizabeth swann		Curiosity. You're going to want it. A chance to be admired. And gain the rewards that follow. You won't be able to resist. You're going to want to know... what it tastes like.
jack sparrow		I *do* want to know what it tastes like.
elizabeth swann		But - seeing as you're a good man I know you will *never* put me in a position that would compromise my honor.
elizabeth swann		I'm proud of you, Jack.
jack sparrow		I want my jar of dirt.
pintel		You're pullin' too fast.
ragetti		You're pulling too slow. We don't want the Kraken to catch us.
pintel		I'm savin' me strength for when it comes. And I don't think it's Krack-en, anyways. I always heard it said Kray-kin.
ragetti		What, with a long A?
pintel		Aye.
ragetti		No-no-no-no-no-no-no. Krock-en's how it's pronounced in the original Scandinavian, and Krack-en's closer to that.
pintel		Well we ain't original Scandinavians, are we? Kray-ken!
ragetti		It's a mythological creature, I can calls it what I wants.
isla cruces		beach  [their longboat arrives at the beach, Jack disembarks and begins to walk off]
jack sparrow		Guard the boat, mind the tide... Don't touch my dirt.
elizabeth swann		This doesn't work. And it *certainly* doesn't show you what you want most.
jack sparrow		Yes it *does*. You're sitting on it!
elizabeth swann		Beg your pardon?
jack sparrow		Move.
pintel		"Mind the tide."
ragetti		I ?can/?may join the circus!
pintel		?Don't ?mind ?if I shine your shoes, Sir?
flying dutchman		deck  [Jones is watching Pintel and Ragetti on the beach through a spyglass]
davy jones		They're here. And I cannot step foot on land again for near of a decade.
maccus		Then trust us to act in your stead.
davy jones		I'll trust you know what awaits should you *fail*! Down, then!
maccus		Down!
isla cruces		beach
elizabeth swann		It's real!
norrington		You actually *were* telling the truth.
jack sparrow		I do that quite a lot. Yet people are always surprised.
will turner		With good reason!  [Will has unexpectedly appeared on the beach, walking up toward them]
elizabeth swann		Will! You're alright! Thank God! I came to find you!
jack sparrow		How did you get here?
will turner		Sea turtles, mate. A pair of them, strapped to my feet.
jack sparrow		Not so easy, is it?
will turner		But I do owe you thanks, Jack.
jack sparrow		You do?
will turner		After you tricked me onto that ship to square your debt with Jones.
elizabeth swann		What?
jack sparrow		What?
will turner		I was reunited with my father.
jack sparrow		Oh! Well... you're welcome, then.
elizabeth swann		Everything you said to me... every word, was a lie!
jack sparrow		Pretty much. Time and tide, love.
jack sparrow		Oy! What're you doing?
will turner		I'm gonna kill Jones.
jack sparrow		Can't let you do that, William. 'Cause if Jones is dead, who's to call his terrible beastie off the hunt, eh? Now. If you please: The key.
will turner		I keep the promises I make, Jack. I intend to free my father. I hope you're here to see it.
norrington		I can't let you do that, either. So sorry.
jack sparrow		I knew you'd warm up to me eventually.
norrington		Lord Beckett desires the contents of that chest. I deliver it, and get my life back.
jack sparrow		Ah. The dark side of ambition.
norrington		Oh, I prefer to see it as the promise of redemption.
elizabeth swann		Stop it!
elizabeth swann		Jack!
will turner		Guard the chest!
elizabeth swann		*No*!
elizabeth swann		This is bar-*baric*! This is *no* way for grown men to settle - ! Oh! Fine! Let's just - *pull* out our swords and start *banging* away at each other! *This will solve everything!* I've had it! I've had enough! Wobbly-legged, rum-soaked... *pirates*!
pintel		How'd this go all screwy?
ragetti		Well, each wants the chest for hisself, don't 'e? Mister Norrington, I think he's tryna regain a bit of honor. Old Jack's lookin' to trade it, save his own skin. And Turner there - I figure 'e's tryna... settle some unresolved business 'twixt him and his twice-cursed pirate father.
pintel		Sad. That chest must be worth more 'n a shiny penny.
ragetti		Oh! Tsk-tsk-tsk. Terrible temptation.
pintel		If we was any kind of *decent*, we'd remove temptation from their path.
elizabeth swann		Will! *Enough!*
elizabeth swann		Oh! Oh...! The heat!
norrington		By your leave, Mister Turner.
isla cruces		church
will turner		By *your* leave, Mister Norrington.
norrington		Do excuse me while I kill the man who ruined my life.
will turner		Be my guest.
jack sparrow		Let us examine that claim for a moment, former Commodore, shall we? Who was it, who at the very moment you had a notorious pirate safely behind bars, saw fit to *free* said pirate, and take your dearly beloved all to hisself, hey? So who's fault is it, *really*, that you've ended up a rum-pot deckhand what takes orders from pirates?
norrington		Enough!  [Jack somersaults off the roof to escape, Norrington turns to Will]
norrington		Unfortunately, Mister Turner... He's *right*!
jack sparrow		Still rooting for you, mate!  [Jack picks up his sword from the ground, and puts the key around his neck]
jack sparrow		Wup!
jack sparrow		Oh.
jack sparrow		Woah!  [the key that Jack had around his neck falls off into the wheel]
pintel		'Ello, Poppet.
elizabeth swann		Sword!
pintel		Sword!
ragetti		Sword!
hadrus		Aya! Uh ?seech!  Aunido! Aunido! Follow my voice! Follow my voice! To the left, uh... No, to the right... Go to the left...
hadrus		No... That's a tree.
jack sparrow		Oh, shut it.
isla cruces		beach  [Jack is the first to arrive back at the longboat on the beach]
jack sparrow		Jar of dirt!  [Jack opens his jar of dirt, dumps out some dirt, puts the heart in the jar, scoops handfuls of dirt back into the jar]
will turner		Right!  [Pintel & Ragetti attempt to escape by longboat, but Will blocks their progress]
pintel		Come on, Turner!  [Jack fights with Koleniko, using an oar, subdues him]  [Will sees the key in the chest, Jack notices Will looking at the key and chest]
jack sparrow		Leave him lie! Unless you plan on using him to hit something with.
elizabeth swann		We're not getting out of this.
norrington		Not with the chest. Into the boat.
elizabeth swann		You're mad.
norrington		Don't wait for me.
jack sparrow		Uh, I say we respect his final wish.
pintel		Aye!  [the remaining Black Pearl crew escape by longboat]  [Hadrus is holding his conch shell head under one arm, the head speaks to Norrington]
hadrus		Your bravery is wasted. I shall pry the chest away from your cold... dead... hands.
norrington		Here you go!
hadrus		Oo!
hadrus		Uh! ?Ando! Aunido! Aunido!  Pirates!
hadrus		?Vengo ?kowmpenay ?lachay. Hey! ?Hovaya!
will turner		What happened to the chest?
elizabeth swann		Norrington took it to draw them off.
pintel		You're pulling too hard!
ragetti		You're not pulling hard enough!
gibbs		Where's the Commodore?
jack sparrow		He fell behind.
gibbs		My prayers be with him. Best not wallow in our grief. The bright side is: You're back. And made it off free and clear.
gibbs		Lord almighty.?us.
jack sparrow		I'll handle this, mate.
jack sparrow		Hey! Fishface! Lose something? Hey? Oup!
jack sparrow		Got it!  [Jack stands up, struts across the deck, holding his jar of dirt]
jack sparrow		Come to negotiate, eh, have you, you slimy git? Look what I got.  I got a jar of dirt! I got a jar of dirt! And guess what's inside it?
davy jones		Enough!  [the Flying Dutchman's cannon covers slide down, cannons emerge from the holes]
jack sparrow		Hard to starboard.
elizabeth swann		*Hard to starboard!*
will turner		Brace up the foreyard!
gibbs		Hard to starboard!
davy jones		Send his beloved Pearl back to the depths!
davy jones		Let them taste the triple guns.
elizabeth swann		She's falling behind!
gibbs		Aye, and we've got her!
will turner		We're the faster?
gibbs		Against the wind the Dutchman beats us. That's how she takes her prey. But *with* the wind...
will turner		We rob her advantage.
gibbs		Ah!
flying dutchman		deck
davy jones		They're out of range! ?Break ?out ?run ###
will turner		My father is *on* that ship. If we can outrun her, we can take her. We should turn and fight.
jack sparrow		Why fight when you can negotiate? All one needs... is the proper leverage.
jack sparrow		Where is it? Where is the thump-thump?
will turner		No. It's not a reef! Get away from the rail!
elizabeth swann		What is it?
will turner		The Kraken. To arms!
will turner		?It'll ?attack the starboard. I've seen it before. ?Break out the cannons and hold for my signal.
will turner		Easy, boys!
elizabeth swann		Will?
will turner		Steady! Steady.
elizabeth swann		Will?
will turner		Hold. Hold...
pintel		I think we've held fire long enough.
elizabeth swann		*Will?*
will turner		*Fire...*!
will turner		It'll be back. We have to get off the ship.
elizabeth swann		There's no boats.  [Will sees the wrecked boats, then sets his eyes on the barrels of gunpowder]
will turner		Pull the grates! Get all the gunpowder onto the net in the cargo hold.
will turner		Whatever you do, don't miss.
elizabeth swann		As soon as you're clear.
gibbs		There's only half a dozen kegs of powder!
will turner		Then load the rum!  [Gibbs seems shocked, then turns to see the entire crew halted, staring at him in shocked silence]
gibbs		Aye! The rum, too!  [the crew continues loading]  [aerial view approaching Black Pearl, zooming through the rigging to the other side]
elizabeth swann		Step to!
elizabeth swann		Oh you coward!
marty		Not good.
will turner		?Pull ?away!
gibbs		Heave! Heave like you're being paid for it!
will turner		Euh! Come on!I'm over here! Come on!
will turner		Shoot! Elizabeth, shoot!
marty		Did we kill it?
gibbs		No. We just made it angry. We're not out of this yet. Captain! Orders!
jack sparrow		Abandon ship. Into the longboat.
gibbs		Jack! The Pearl!
jack sparrow		She's only a ship, mate.
elizabeth swann		He's right, we have to head for land.
pintel		'S a lot o' open wa'er.
ragetti		That's a lot o' wa'er.
will turner		We have to try. We can get away as it takes down the Pearl.
gibbs		Abandon ship. Abandon ship or abandon hope.
elizabeth swann		Thank you, Jack.
jack sparrow		We're not free yet, love.
elizabeth swann		You came back. I always knew you were a good man.
gibbs		Prepare to cast off! There's no time to lose! Come on, Will, step to!
elizabeth swann		It's after you, not the ship. It's not us. This is the only way, don't you see? I'm not sorry.
jack sparrow		Pirate.
will turner		Where's Jack?
elizabeth swann		He elected to stay behind to give us a chance.
elizabeth swann		Go!
jack sparrow		Bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger, bugger...!
jack sparrow		Come on... Come on...
jack sparrow		Not so bad.
jack sparrow		Oh!
jack sparrow		Hello, beastie.  [slow motion scene of Jack boldy charging toward the Kraken's mouth, sword drawn] [Q3]
flying dutchman		deck
davy jones		Jack Sparrow. Our debt is settled.
koleniko		The captain goes down with his ship.
maccus		Turns out not even Jack Sparrow can best the devil.
davy jones		Open the chest. Open the chest, I need to see it!
davy jones		Damn you, Jack Spar-*row*!
port royal		EITC headquarters
mercer		The last of our ships has returned.
mercer		None. But... one of the ships did pick up a man adrift at sea. He had these.
norrington		I took the liberty of filling in my name.
norrington		Better.  The heart of Davy Jones.
bayou		Tia's shack  [the remaining crew paddles through the waters to Tia Dalma's shack]
tia dalma		Against de cold... and de sorrow.
tia dalma		It's a shame. I know you're t'inking that wid the Pearl, you coulda captured the devil and set free your fadder's soul.
will turner		Doesn't matter now. The Pearl's gone. Along with its captain.
gibbs		Aye. And already the world seems a bit less bright. He fooled us all right to the end. But I guess that honest streak finally won out. To Jack Sparrow!
ragetti		Never another like Captain Jack.
pintel		He was a gentleman of fortune, he was.
elizabeth swann		He was a good man.  [they all take a drink out of their mugs, except Elizabeth]
will turner		If there was anything could be done to bring him back...  Elizabeth...
tia dalma		Would you do it? Hmmm?  What... would you? Hmmm? What would *any* of you be willing to do? Hmmm? Would you sail to the ends of the eart', and beyond, to fetch back ?witty Jack and 'im precious Pearl?
gibbs		Aye.
pintel		Aye.
ragetti		Aye.
cotton's parrot		Awk! Aye.
elizabeth swann		Yes.
will turner		Aye.
tia dalma		Alright. But if you're goin' brave de weird, and haunted shores, at world's end, den... you will need a captain who knows dose waters.
barbossa		So tell me, what's become of my ship?
****Dialogues from script :Pitch_Black.txt****

pitch black		 Screenplay  by  David Twohy
revised first draft		3/3/98
fry		Hear me? Cap'n? Some kinda compromise to the hull...holding for now, but...Goddamn, I'm glad you're alive. Gotta pull your E-release...no, red handle, red handle. I'll get the warm-ups out while --
owens		Why did I fall on you?
fry		He's dead. Cap'n's dead. Christ, I was looking right at him when --
owens		I mean, I mean, chrono shows we're 22 weeks out, so gravity wasn't supposed to kick in for another 19. I mean, I mean, I mean, why did I fall at all?
fry		You hear me? Captain's dead. Owens too.
owens		Oh, no. Not Owens, not.... Wai', wai', wait. I'm Owens. Right?
fry		Cryo-sleep. Swear to God, it sloughs brain cells.
fry		1550 millibars, dropping 20 MB per minute, shit, we're hemorrhaging air. Somethin' took a swipe at us.
owens		Just tell me we're still in the shipping lane. Just show me all those stars, all those bright, beautiful, deep-space....
fry		Jesus God....
owens		... crisis program selected Number Two of this system because it shows at least some oxygen and more than 1,500 -- would you SHUT THE FUCK UP!  -- more than 1,500-millibars of pressure at surface-level. Okay, so maybe the ship did something right for a change....
owens		...showing no major water bodies...maximum terrain, 220 meters over mean surface... largely cinder and gypsum with some evaporite deposits....
owens		Fry? What're you doing?
owens		Fry?
fry		Can't get my nose down...too much load back there....
owens		You mean that "load" of passengers?
fry		So what, we should both go down too? Out of sheer fucking nobility?
owens		Look, Fry. Company says we're responsible for every one of those --
fry		Company's not here, is it?
owens		When captain went down, you stepped up -- whether you like it or not. Now they train you for this, so --
fry		And there wasn't a simulated cockroach alive within 50 clicks of the simulated crash site! That's how they train you! On a fucking simulator!
owens		Don't touch that switch!
fry		I'm not dying for them.
fry		Owens!
owens		70 seconds! You still got 70 seconds to level this beast out!
audrey		Somethin' went wrong, huh?
johns		One chance and you blew it, Riddick. Never cease to disappoint me.
johns		Hey, who?
johns		Amazing. I'm Johns.
fry		Carolyn Fry. I'd shake hands, but...
fry		Are there any others, Johns?
owens		Out, out, out, GET IT OUTTA ME!
voices		Pull it out of him...No, it's too close to the heart...You gotta do it, just do it fast....
owens		Don't touch it! Don't touch that switch!
voices		You'll kill him, I'm tellin' you, shit, just leave it alone...delirious...doncha you got some drugs for this poor man....
owens		Don't touch that switch!
fry		Awright, awright, someone...there's Anestaphine in the med-lock, that end of the cabin...next to....
fry		Get away. Everybody.
paris		Well. Our own little slice of heaven.
imam		Please...which way to New Mecca? We must know the direction in order to pray.
johns		Big talk about a scouting party...
paris		Anyone else having breathing problems? Aside from me?
audrey		Like I just ran, or something....
shazza		Feel one lung short. All of us.
paris		Well, I tend toward the asthmatic. And with all this dust....
fry		It's the atmosphere. Too much pressure, not enough oxygen. Might take a few days to --
zeke		So what the bloody hell happened, anyways?
fry		Somethin' knocked us off-lane. Maybe a rogue comet. Maybe we'll never know.
shazza		Well, I for one, am thoroughly fucking grateful. This beast wasn't made to land like this. But cripes, you rode it down.  C'mon, you lousy ingrates, only reason we're alive is a'cuzza her.
fry		Liquid oxygen canisters inside. Start ripping them out. Quick hits only -- try to make it last.
audrey		Well, is someone coming for us? Or are we all just gonna die of exposure or dehydration or sunstroke or maybe even something worse?  Hey, you don't have to worry about scaring me.
shazza		We're worried you'll scare us.  Name's "Audrey," right, love? And you're goin' to Taurus Three like we were?
audrey		Yeah, but...do we even have enough food to get there? Or will we have to resort to cannibalism?
zeke		 I'll see 'bout makin' this air go a bit further, cap'n. With your permission, a' course.
fry		And him?
johns		Big Evil?
fry		We just keep him locked up forever?
johns		Be my choice. Already escaped once from the max-slam facility on --
fry		I don't need his life story. Is he really that dangerous?
johns		Only around humans.
fry		Oh, Christ....
fry		Ask if anyone has anything in cargo! Anything to drink!
paris		Mine here....
fry		S'matter?
johns		Little swamp-flu from the Conga system. Never shook it with all this cryo-sleep.
johns		King Tut's tomb....
paris		Be surprised what these will fetch in the Taurus system. Here. This Wooten here -- easy, easy. Very rare.
fry		This is it? Booze? That's what you have to drink?
paris		 200-year-old single-malt scotch is to "booze" as foie gras is to "duck guts."
johns		 A toast to whatever he just said.
paris		I'll need a receipt for that.  For all these.
fry		Top of my list.
fry		I don't suppose....
imam		One of the Christian habits we didn't adopt -- perhaps unfortunately. We'll have to wait.
johns		For what? There is no water. You understand that, don't you?
imam		All deserts have water, somewhere. God shall lead us there.
johns		Like we needed another way to die.
johns		What the hell are these?
paris		Maratha crow-bill war-picks from Northern India. Very rare.
zeke		An' this?
paris		Blow-dart hunting stick from Papua New Guinea. Very very rare, since the tribe's extinct.
zeke		'Cuz they couldn't hunt shit with these things, be my guess.
paris		Well, what's the need, anyway? If he's gone, he's gone. Why should he bother us?
johns		First, because he can only live out there for so long -- he's gonna come back and take what we got. Second, for the sheer thrill of the kill.
fry		Imam. We should leave soon. Before nightfall but while it's cooler.
zeke		What, you're goin' off, too?
fry		Johns is leaving you a gun. Just do me a favor, huh? Get my crewies buried? They were good guys who died bad.
shazza		A'course we will.
shazza		My bloody oath....
audrey		Three suns?
zeke		 So much for your nightfall.
paris		So much for my cocktail hour.
imam		We take this to be a good sign -- a path, a direction from God.
johns		A very good sign.  That's Riddick's direction. You do not wanna be caught in the dark with this guy.
fry		Thought you found his restraints over there. Toward sunset.
johns		 Which means he went toward sunrise.
fry		So quiet. You get used to the sounds of the ship, then....
imam		You know who Muhammad was?
fry		Some prophet guy?
imam		"Some prophet guy." And a city man. But he had to travel to the desert -- where there was quiet -- to hear the words of God.
fry		You were on a pilgrimage? To New Mecca?
imam		 Chrislam teaches that once in every lifetime should there be a great hajj -- a great pilgrimage. To know God, better, yes, but to know yourself as well.
fry		Frightening thought.
imam		 We're all on the same hajj now.
fry		What?
johns		 Tell me it's not a mirage.
fry		Trees?
paris		Amazing how you can do without the essentials of life -- so long as you have the luxuries.
zeke		Well, just keep your bloody-fuckin' eyes open. Don't want that ratbag sneakin' up on me bloody-fuckin' arse.
audrey		He'd probably get you right here, right under the jaw. And you'd never hear him coming. That's how good Riddick is.
paris		Now did you run away from your parents? Or did they run away from you?
pilgrims		Allahu Akbar...Allahu Akbar....
fry		Is this whole planet dead?
imam		He asks what could have killed so many great things...
imam		Some...communal graveyard, perhaps... like the elephants of Earth....
johns		Long time ago. Whatever happened.
fry		Probably makes it worse. Dehydrates you even more.
johns		Probably right.
fry		Better keep moving....
johns		What'd Owens mean? 'Bout not touching the switch?
fry		Promise me. Swear to me you won't --
johns		You see anybody else here? Just between you and me.
fry		During the landing...when things were at their worst...Owens was at his best. He's the one who wouldn't let the pilot dump the passenger cabin.
johns		Hold up.
fry		What?
johns		Thought he might be coolin' it in the boneyard -- could either double-back to the ship or slip in behind us. So I left the bottle out as bait.
fry		Wait, wait, wait....
imam		We are not alone here, yes?
johns		Never thought we were.
johns		Long gone. Whoever they were.
imam		Water...water there was here....
pilgrims		Allahu Akbar....
imam		 "God is Great," yes?
johns		I'm born-again.
fry		Lights.
johns		 Hey. Don't go too far, huh?
fry		No darkness. No lights because no darkness....
fry		Allahu Akbar!
paris		This now qualifies as the worst fun I've ever had. Stop it.
paris		Audrey? Oh, Audrey....
paris		Tell me that was you.
audrey		Okay, it was me. What'd I do now?
paris		Assailing my fragile sense of security, that's what.
shazza		What're you goin' on about? She's been right here for the last....
shazza		 Zeke?
audrey		No!
total stranger		I thought...my God, I thought I was the only one who....
paris		Oh, Lord....
audrey		It was just somebody else. From the crash. He was just....
zeke		Cripes galore, I thought it was him. The murderin' ratbag. I thought he was....
fry		No juice, looks like it's been laid up for years. But we might be able to adapt --
johns		Shut up.
fry		Like what?
johns		Like my pistola.
zeke		Now what the bloody hell....
johns		Same crap, different planet, huh?
johns		...I don't play that...I don't play that so just try again. C'mon, Riddick, tell me a better lie....
fry		Ease up, ease up. JOHNS! Just tell me what....
shazza		What'd you do with 'im? You bloody sick animal you, what'dja do with me Zeke?
fry		He used that?
johns		Sir Shiv-a-lot. He likes to cut.
fry		So why isn't it all bloody?
johns		I assume he licked it clean.
fry		So where is he?
fry		Tell me about the sounds. You told them you heard something right before....  If you don't talk to me, Johns'll take another crack at it -- at your skull.
riddick		'Mean the whispers?
fry		What whispers?
riddick		The ones tellin' me to go for the sweet spot -- just to the left of the spine, fourth lumbar down. The abdominal aorta. What a gusher. Had a cup on his belt, so I used it to catch a little run-off. Metallic taste to it, human blood. Coppery. But if you cut it with peppermint schnapps, that goes away. Course, that's more for winter. Summertime, I take mine straight.
fry		Why don't we try the truth now?
riddick		All you people are so scared of me -- an' most days, I'd take that as a compliment -- but it ain't me you gotta worry about now.
fry		Show me your eyes.
fry		Show me, Riddick.
fry		You did this? To yourself?
riddick		Slam doctor. Well, we called him "doctor."
fry		Heard about it. Just never seen it.
riddick		Fairly fuckin' ironic, wouldn't you say? Slamlight's so dim that you go and get your eyeballs taken out and shined up -- then you wind up here. Three ass-kick suns.  Maybe I did do a few people. But not this one. No ma'am, not this time.
fry		Then where is he? He's not in the hole. We looked.
riddick		Look deeper.
johns		I know what happened -- he went off on the guy, buried him on the hill somewhere, and now he's trying to --
fry		Let's just be sure.
johns		I am sure. Look, murders aside, Riddick belongs in the Asshole Hall of Fame. He loves the jaw-jackin', loves making you afraid, 'cuz that's all he has. And you're playing right into --
fry		We're gonna find the body, Johns. Christ, you're a cop. Why am I tellin' you this? We gotta go down and find it.
johns		Well, don't ask me to.
fry		Thought you didn't believe his story.
johns		I don't. But that ground looked none too stable, and I don't want anyone --
audrey		If you're afraid, I'll go.
fry		Nobody else is going down but me, okay?
johns		 Hey. Bein' ballsy with your life now doesn't change what came before -- it's just stupid.
fry		What, you think I'm doin' this to prove something?
johns		You said it, not me. Let's just not let one bad call lead to another.
fry		Thanks for the tip, Johns.
fry		They're hollow....
fry		Here! I'm in HERE, HERE, HERE!
imam		Did you hear....
fry		I'm over here in the --
fry		Oh, God....
johns		We got you...it's okay, it's okay...we got you now....
imam		The child heard you before any of us could even....
shazza		Did you find him? You find Zeke?
fry		 ...wasn't Riddick...it was...it was... goddamn, that was stupid....but wasn't Riddick. Somethin' else down there that got Zeke and nearly got --
imam		One is all?
fry		For now.
riddick		Found somethin' worse than me, huh?
johns		We're movin'. And I'm just wondering if I shouldn't lighten the load right now.
riddick		Woof, woof.
johns		Want you to remember this moment, Riddick. The way it coulda gone and didn't.
riddick		 Say that again.
johns		Here's the deal. You work without the chains, without the bit -- without the shivs. You help us get off this rock....
riddick		For what? The honor of goin' back to some asshole of a cell?
johns		Truth is, Riddick, I'm tired of this head-up shit. I wanna be free of you as much as you wanna be free of me.
riddick		You'd cut me loose, Boss?
johns		Only if we both get outta this alive. And there may be a way.
riddick		 My recommendation: Do me. Don't take the chance that I'll get shiv-happy on your wannabe ass. Ghost me, Riddick. Would if I were you.
johns		If you were me, I'd kill us both. C'mon, you wanna sit at the grown-up table or not?
riddick		Want you to remember this moment.
paris		 So just like that. Wave your little wand and he's one of us now.
johns		Didn't say that. But least this way I don't have to worry about falling asleep and not wakin' up.
imam		Well, I feel we owe Mr. Riddick amends.
shazza		Oh, right. Let's all line up and beg his forgiveness. Right you are.
imam		At least give the man some oxygen....
johns		He's happy just bein' vertical. Leave him be.
audrey		So I can talk to him now?
paris		Paris P. Ogilvie. Antiquities dealer, entrepreneur.
riddick		 Richard B. Riddick. Escaped convict, murderer.
paris		You know, if I owned Hell and this planet...I believe I'd rent this out and live in Hell.
paris		I mean, usually I can appreciate antiques, but, uh....
johns		Little ratty-ass.
fry		Nothing we can't repair -- so long as the electrical adapts.
shazza		Not a star-jumper.
riddick		Doesn't need to be. Use this to get back up to the Sol-Track Shipping Lanes, stick out a thumb. You'll get picked up.  Right?
fry		Little help here?
johns		Check those containers for me. See what we can patch wings with.
fry		Okay, that should buy us a sys-check. But we'll need more cells.
johns		How many?
fry		15 6-gigs here...90 gigs total...other ship carries 20-gig cells, so...five. Five total to launch.
johns		25 kilos each, huh?
shazza		Old sand-cat outside. See if I can't get it up and chuggin'.
johns		Do it. And if you need an extra hand, tap our problem child out....  Where's Riddick?
robot		"...to all intruders. I am the guardian of this land. I will protect my masters at all cost. Death to all intruders..."
riddick		Missin' the party. C'mon.
imam		...and for this, our gift of drink, we give thanks in the name of our Prophet, Muhammad, peace be upon him, and to our Lord, Jesus Christ of Nazareth, and to his father, Allah the Compassionate and the Merciful.
paris		 The strangest religion....
paris		Perhaps we should toast our hosts. Who were these people, anyway? Miners?
shazza		Looks like geologists. Advance team, moves around from rock to rock.
johns		Musta crapped out here, huh?
audrey		But why did they leave their ship?
johns		 Well, just a skiff. Disposable, really.
paris		Like an emergency life-raft, right?
shazza		Sure. Coulda had a real drop-ship take them off-planet. Long gone.
paris		A toast to their ghosts, then....
riddick		Didn't leave, these people. Whatever got Zeke got them. They're all dead.
shazza		Maybe they had weight limits, you don't know.
riddick		I know you don't uncrate your emergency ship unless there's a fucking emergency.
johns		Rag it, Riddick. Nobody wants your theories on --
fry		 So what happened? Where are they, then?
imam		Has anyone seen the young one? Ali?
riddick		 Has anyone checked the coring room?
imam		Ali....
imam		Ali?
shazza		Why was the door chained up? Why the bloody hell would they lock themselves in like that?
johns		Not sure, but tell you what: Chrislams better not be diggin' another grave out there.
shazza		So that's what come of me Zeke. An' you saw it. You was right there.
riddick		 Though I notice he tried to ghost my ass. When he shot up that stranger instead.
shazza		Take it.
riddick		 What, it's broken?
shazza		Startin' to acclimate, anyhow. Take it.
johns		 Let's board this up and get the hell gone. They seem to stick to the dark, so if we stick to daylight, should be all --
fry		60 years ago.
johns		Wha'?
fry		Core-samples are dated. Last one is 60 years ago. This month.
shazza		Yeah? What's special about that?
fry		Dunno. Maybe nothing, but....
johns		Are you fuckin' kidding me?
riddick		Not afraid of the dark, are you?
fry		...need those cells from the crash ship. Shit, still gotta check out the hull, patch the wings --
johns		Let's wait on the power cells.
fry		Wait for what? Until it's so dark we can't even find our way back to --
johns		We're not sure when it happens, so let's not --
fry		Get the fucking cells over here, Johns. What's the discussion?
johns		Ever tell you how Riddick escaped?
fry		 He can pilot?
johns		Hijacked a prison transport, made a helluva good run 'fore I tracked him down.
fry		 Okay, maybe that's a good thing. Maybe I can use him to help with --
johns		He also figured out how to kill the pilot, Fry.
fry		You said we were going to trust him now. You said there was a deal.
johns		That's what I said.
fry		Oh, this is a dangerous game you're playing, Johns.
johns		May've noticed chains don't work on this guy. Only way we're truly safe is if he believes he's goin' free. But if he stops believin' --
fry		You mean, if he learns that you're gonna royally fuck him over.
fry		You know, he hasn't harmed any of us. Far as I can tell, he hasn't even lied to us. Just stick to the deal, Johns. Let him go if that's what it --
johns		He's a murderer. The law says he's gotta do his bid.
fry		Dancin' on razor blades here...
johns		I won't give him a chance to grab another ship -- or to slash another pilot's throat.
riddick		Bad sign. Shakin' like that in this heat.
riddick		 I'll cut.
fry		They're coming.
riddick		Strange, not doin' a run-up on the main drive yet.  Strange unless he told you the particulars of my escape.
fry		I got the quick-and-ugly version.
riddick		An' now you're worried about a repeat of history?
fry		Entered our minds.
riddick		I asked what you thought.
fry		You scare me, Riddick. That's what you wanna hear, isn't it? There, I admit it, Can I get back to work now?
riddick		Think Johns is an do-right man? You think I can trust him to cut me loose?
fry		Why, what'd you hear?
riddick		Well, guess if it was trickeration he'd just do me, huh? Then again...I am worth twice as much alive.  Didn't know? Johns ain't a cop. Oh, he's got that shiny badge an' all, but nah -- he's just a merc and I'm just a payday. That's why he won't kill me. The creed is greed.
fry		Save it, Riddick. We aren't gonna turn on each other -- no matter how hard you try.
riddick		I don't truly know what's gonna happen when the lights go out, Carolyn -- but I do know that once the dyin' starts, this little psycho family of ours is gonna rip itself apart. So you better find out the truth. Come nightfall, you better know exactly who's standing behind you.
riddick		Oh, ask him 'bout those shakes. And ask why your crew-pal had to scream like that 'fore he died.
johns		I never said I was.
fry		Never said you were a hype, either.
johns		You have a little caffeine in the morning, I have a little morphine. So what?
fry		And here you got two mornings every day. Wow, were you born lucky?
johns		Not a problem unless you're gonna make --
fry		 You made it a problem when you let Owens die like that. When you had enough drugs to knock out a fucking mule-team.
johns		Owens was already dead. His brain just hadn't caught on to that fact.
fry		Anything else we should know about you, Johns? Christ, here I am lettin' you play games with our lives when --
johns		My first run-in with Riddick. Went for the sweet-spot and missed. They had to leave a piece of the shiv in there. I can feel it, sometimes, pressing against the cord.  So maybe the care and feeding of my nerve-endings is my business.
fry		You coulda helped. And you didn't.
johns		Yeah, well, look to thine own ass first. Right, "captain"?
paris		What do my eyes see?
fry		It's starting....
shazza		 If we need anything from the crash ship -- I suggest we kick on. That sand-cat's solar.
fry		LET'S GET THOSE CELLS!
shazza		We stay together! C'mon!
riddick		Don't wanna miss this.
audrey		Lookit. Lookit!
fry		Don't stop, don't stop....
johns		Jesus, how many can there....
paris		Just a suggestion, but perhaps we should flee.
fry		Cargo hold, everyone in the cargo hold. lesgo, lesgo, lesgo.
audrey		Tell her to stay there. Stay down. SHAZZA, JUST STAY DOWN!
fry		No, no, NO, NO, NO....
fry		What is it? What's happening?
riddick		Like I said. Ain't me you gotta worry about.
audrey		What if...what if she's still out there... still alive....
johns		Well, I don't want to jump to conclusions here...but 'member that boneyard? These just might be the fuckers that killed every other living thing on this planet, okay? Chances of Shazza knockin' on that door anytime soon are just about zero squared.
fry		 I saw the cut-marks on the bones. Wasn't a natural die-off.
imam		Quiet, please. Everyone.
audrey		 Why do they do that? Make that sound?
imam		Perhaps the way they see. With sound, reflecting back.
fry		 Echo-location. That's what it is....
fry		Breach in the hull. I dunno.
johns		I'd rather piss glass.
riddick		Well, you got the big gauge.
johns		Wanna rag your fat mouth?
audrey		Maybe it's just their beads again. Imam, are you still --
imam		No, no, no, I do not believe --
johns		C'mon, man, you're drivin' everybody bugfuck with those things. Why don't you just lose the goddamn....
riddick		Big beads.
johns		 Okay. We're okay. Just some small ones that musta --
johns		Very big beads.
paris		Not staying in here another....
fry		Christ, you don't know what's out there!
paris		I know what's in here!
imam		Everybody come, this way and we should be safe. Hurry, please....
riddick		 Can you do sumpin' else with that? 'Sides holding it in my fucking face?
paris		Hello, hello?
riddick		Don't. Move.
fry		Imam? Where are they?
riddick		No....
fry		Stop it, stop it, STOP IT!
johns		'Sokay, 'sokay. I killed it.
fry		There....
paris		Like the light is scalding it.
fry		It hurts them. Light actually hurts them....
imam		Is that...Hasan?
johns		We'll burn a candle for him later. C'mon.
fry		...one cutting torch...one handlight here, two more in the cabin...I think two more....
paris		Spirits. Anything over 45 proof burns well.
fry		How many bottles?
paris		Not sure. Ten?
fry		Those umbrellas, the ones that mist. Would they burn?  If you got a receipt?
paris		Possibly.
fry		Awright. So maybe we'll have enough light.
johns		Enough for what?
fry		 We can stick to the plan. If we get four cells back to the skiff, we're off this rock.
paris		I hate to kill a beautiful theory with an ugly fact, but that sand-cat won't run at night.
fry		We'll have to carry the cells...drag them...whatever it takes.
audrey		You mean...tonight? With all those things still out there?
paris		Oh, sure. Why not? Sounds like a hoot.
johns		Back it up. How long can this last? Few minutes? Couple hours?
imam		I had the impression...from the model... that the two planets were moving as one. That there would be...a lasting darkness.
johns		Those suns gotta come back sometime. And if these animals really are phobic about light, we just sit tight till then.
fry		I'm sure that's what someone else said. Locked inside that coring room.
johns		Look, we gotta think about everyone now -- the kid especially. How scared is she gonna be out there?
fry		Oh, don't use her like that, for a smoke screen.
johns		Smoke screen for what?
fry		For your own fear.
johns		 Hey. Why don't you rag your hole for two seconds and let someone else come up with a plan that doesn't involve MASS SUICIDE?
fry		How much you weigh, Johns?
johns		What the hell's it matter?
fry		How much?
johns		79 kilos.
fry		Because you're 79 kilos of gutless white meat, and that's why you can't come up with a better plan.
riddick		Think about that reward, Johns.
johns		I'm willing to take a cut in pay.
riddick		How 'bout a cut in your gut?
johns		Oh, Trash Baby, you're gonna regret this.
imam		Please...this solves nothing...please....
fry		 They're afraid of our light. That means we don't have to be so afraid of them.
imam		And you're certain you can find the way back? Even in the dark?
fry		No, I'm not. But he can.
fry		Riddick.
riddick		Looks clear.
johns		Fuck me. You said "clear."
riddick		Said "looks clear."
johns		Well, what's it look like now?
riddick		 Looks clear.
fry		Just get the goddamn lights on....
fry		Ready, Johns.
johns		He'll lead you over the first cliff. You know that, don't you?
fry		We're just burnin' light here.
johns		You give him the cells and the ship -- and he will leave you. He will leave you all out there to die.
fry		I don't get it, Johns. What is so goddamn valuable in your life that you're worried about losing? Huh? Is there anything at all? Besides your next hype?  Got no right to be so scared. Neither one of us.
fry		 Keep the light going. That's all we have to do to live through this. Just keep your light burning.
riddick		 Be runnin' about 10 paces ahead. I want light on my back -- but not in my eyes. And check your cuts. These things know our blood now.
fry		Riddick...was thinkin' we should make some kind of deal. Just in case, you know, this actually --
riddick		 Had it with deals.
fry		But I just wanted to say --
riddick		Nobody's gonna turn a murderer loose. I fuckin' knew better.
fry		We can, can't we? Trust you?
riddick		Actually...  That's what I been askin' myself.
johns		So you noticed too?
fry		Riddick. Riddick.
fry		Where are the sand-cat tracks? Why aren't we still following them?
riddick		Saw something I didn't like.
johns		Such as.
riddick		Hard to tell, sometimes...even for me... but looked like a bunch of those big boys chewin' each other's gonads off. Thought we'd swing wide. Okay by you?
fry		Let's move.  Just a detour. He'll get us there.
paris		Can we switch?
fry		What, switch what?
paris		I think I twisted my ankle running backwards like that. And I'm not sure I can....  Okay, that's a lie. I just don't want to be alone back there anymore. If you could just give me a few minutes up front here --
johns		She's the pilot, she should stay close to the cells.
paris		Oh, so I'm disposable?
fry		I'll switch, I'll switch! Christ, just get this train moving!
paris		Light, please, need light here....
imam		 Please...have we been cut? Can someone tell me if....
paris		Oh, sweet Jesus....
paris		Oh, sweet Jesus, WILL YOU GET ME SOME LIGHT OVER HERE!
fry		What do you see? Riddick?
riddick		Hunger. I see 60 years of hunger.
fry		Bottle-count.
audrey		Four fulls, one half. That mean we're halfway there? I hope?
fry		Can we pick up the pace?
johns		We aren't completely stupid.
fry		Stay in the light! Everybody! Stay in the fucking --
imam		We crossed our own tracks.
johns		He's running us 'round in circles. Look for yourself. Look!
fry		Riddick? What the hell are you --
riddick		Listen.
riddick		Canyon ahead. I circled once to buy some time to think.
fry		Think about what?
johns		About how to kill us and still get these cells to the skiff. Goddamnit, we're just doin' the heavy lifting for this prick!
riddick		 About the girl.
fry		What about her?
riddick		What it's gonna be like when we hit that canyon. With her bleeding.
johns		What're you jaw-jackin' about? Girl's not cut.
riddick		 No. She's not.
audrey		 I didn't want you to leave me there... back at the ship...that's why I didn't say anything....
fry		No, we'd never....Oh, God, honey, you shoulda told me sooner.
johns		 Aw, this can't be happening to me....
riddick		They been nose-open for her ever since we left. They go off blood.
imam		Well...we must keep her close, then. Here, she'll be safe if we put her between --
riddick		 There is no "safe."
fry		It's not gonna work. We gotta go back.
johns		Hey, you're the one who got me out here, turned me into a goddamn sled dog. An' now you 'spect me to go back like a whipped dog?
fry		I was wrong. I admit it. My bad, okay? Now let's just go back to the ship.
johns		I dunno. Nice breeze, wide open spaces -- you know, I'm startin' to enjoy myself out here.
fry		Are you fucking high again? Just listen to --
johns		No, no, you're right, Fry. What's to be afraid of? My life is a steamin' pile of meaningless toadshit anyhow. So I say mush on! Canyon's only couple hundred meters, after that we're in Skiff City! So why don't you just butch up, stuff a cork in that kid, and get --
imam		She's the captain, we should listen to --
johns		Listen to her? Her? When she was willing to sacrifice us all?
audrey		What's he talkin' about?
johns		During the crash, she --
fry		 This does not help us, Johns.
johns		-- she tried to blow the whole fucking passenger cabin, tried to kill us --
fry		Just shut up, okay?
johns		-- tried to kill us in our sleep. Paris had it right -- we are disposable. We're just walking ghosts to her.
fry		Would you RAG YOUR STUPID HOLE!
johns		We're not alive because of her -- we're alive in spite of her.
fry		We cannot go through there....
johns		 How much you weigh right now, Fry? Huh?
imam		 Fine, fine, you've made your point. We can all be so scared as you.
johns		 Verdict's in. The light moves forward.
johns		Ain't all of us gonna make it.
riddick		Just realized that, huh?
johns		Six of us left. If we could get through that canyon and lose just one, that'd be quite a fucking feat, huh? A good thing, right?
riddick		Not if I'm the one.
johns		What if you're one of five?
audrey		What're they doin' up there?
imam		Talking about the canyon, I suppose. How to get us through.
johns		Look, it's hellified stuff -- but no different than those battlefield doctors when they have to decide who lives and who dies. It's called "triage," okay?
riddick		Kept calling it "murder" when I did it.
johns		Either way, figure it's something you can grab onto.
riddick		 Sacrifice play. Hack up one body, leave it at start of the canyon. Like a bucket of chum.
johns		Trawl with it. There's a cable on the sled. We can drag the body behind us.
riddick		Nice embellishment.
johns		Don't wanna feed these land-sharks -- just keep 'em off our scent.
riddick		 So which one caught your eye?
johns		Don' look, don' look, don' look....
fry		Imam. Slow down.
imam		What?
fry		Don't stop, just slow down.  Little more space 'tween us and them.
imam		I would rather we all stay--
fry		Do what I say. Please.
riddick		What's her name, anyway?
johns		What do you care?
johns		Then let's not name the Thanksgiving turkey, okay? I assume you still got a shiv.
riddick		What, you 'spect me to do it?
johns		What's one more to you? Like this is the one that sends you to Hell?
riddick		Oh, you're a piece of art, Johns. They oughtta hang you in a museum somewhere. Or forget the museum -- maybe they should just hang you.
johns		Awright. You do the girl, I'll keep the others off your back.
riddick		 Just wonderin' if we don't need a bigger piece of chum.
johns		Like who, Mr. Chrislam?
fry		Bring the light!
audrey		What're they doing? What're we --
fry		Leave the sled, let's go, go, go!
riddick		Gotta stay in the light, Johns. That's the only rule.
riddick		Remember that moment?
riddick		Shoulda never took the chains off, Johns. You were one brave fuck, before. Now look at you. Oh, yeah, you were Billy Bad-ass with your gauge...with your chains....
riddick		Back to the ship, huh?
fry		Get out of our way.
riddick		So everybody huddles together till the lights burn out? Until you can't see what's eating you? That the big plan?
imam		Where's Mr. Johns?
riddick		Which half?
imam		You mean....
audrey		Gonna lose everybody out here....
riddick		He died fast. And if we got any choice, that's the way we should all go out.  Don't you cry for Johns. Don't you dare.
fry		How many you see?
riddick		One or two.
fry		Audrey?
audrey		Three full bottles. But almost time to refill.
fry		Doesn't seem like enough to turn back on, does it?
riddick		Only see one way. Turn the sled over and drag it like that, girl down low. Light up everything we got -- and run through like dogs on fire.
imam		 The sled as a shield....
fry		And what about the cells?
riddick		I'll take those.
fry		We're just here to carry your light, aren't we? Just the torch-bearers.
riddick		Let's drop back an' boot up.
riddick		What're you doin'?
imam		Blessing you like the others.  It's painless.
riddick		And pointless.
imam		 I see. Well, even if you don't believe in God, it doesn't mean He won't be --
riddick		You don't see.
imam		He will be with us. Nonetheless.
riddick		Give my blessing to the girl. She needs a spare.
riddick		As fast as you can.
fry		You sure you can keep --
riddick		As fast as you can.
riddick		Don't look.
riddick		Do not look up.
riddick		Keep going, keep going, keep going, keep going!
imam		 "So dark the clouds around my way I cannot see, But through the darkness I believe God leadeth me. I gladly place my hand in His when all is dim, And, closing my weary eyes, lean hard on him...."
fry		Riddick? RIDDICK?
audrey		What? What is it?
riddick		It's a fucking staircase! Go over it! GO OVER IT!
fry		Audrey!
riddick		Didn't know who he was fuckin' with.
imam		Suleiman!
riddick		Get the girl back under. Keep going.
imam		SULEIMAN!
riddick		KEEP GOING OR I WILL!
fry		Oh, no. No, no, no....
imam		Rain.
riddick		So where the hell's God now, huh?  I'll tell you where! He's up there PISSING ON ME!
fry		Riddick? How close?
fry		Tell me the settlement is right there! RIDDICK, PLEASE!
riddick		We can't make it.
riddick		Here...hide here....
riddick		Inside...inside....
audrey		 Why's he still out there?
audrey		He's not coming back, is he?
fry		There's light in here.
fry		What are they?
imam		Larva....
audrey		Glow worms....
fry		 How many bottles we got? Empty ones?
audrey		More, more, we need more....
riddick		Strong survival instinct. Admire that in a woman.
fry		You're not leaving. Not until we go back for the others.
riddick		Think you've mistaken me for somebody who gives a fuck.
fry		What, you're afraid?
riddick		Confusin' me with Johns now -- fear was his monkey. I only deal in life and death. All that stuff in between? Some shade of grey my eyes don't see.
fry		I trusted you, Riddick. Goddamn, I trusted that some part of you wanted to rejoin the human race.
riddick		Truthfully? I wouldn't know how.
fry		Then wait for me. I'll go back myself. Just give me more light for them.
fry		Just come with me!
riddick		Got a better idea. Come with me.
fry		You're fuckin' with me. I know you are.
riddick		'Course I am -- but doesn't mean I won't leave you here. If you believe anything about me, better be that.
fry		No, you see, I promised them...I have to...I have to go and....
riddick		Step aboard, Carolyn.
fry		 I can't....I can't....
riddick		 Here. Make it easy on you.
fry		Don't do this to me....
riddick		Just give me your hand.
fry		But they...they could still be....
riddick		No one's gonna blame you. C'mon. Take my hand and save yourself, Carolyn.
fry		I will not give up on them! I Will not leave anyone on this rock with those fucking things, even if it means --
riddick		You'd die for them?
fry		I would try for them.
riddick		You barely know them.
fry		But I'm human. I know you view that as a weakness, but I'm sorry -- I do feel fear, theirs too. Goddamnit, Riddick -- yes. I would die for them.
audrey		 You came for us....
riddick		Yeah, yeah -- we're all fuckin' amazed. Anyone not ready for this?
riddick		Tighter, tighter....
riddick		Stop.
fry		I don't hear --
riddick		 Doesn't see us...wait for it to leave....
riddick		Get behind me.
riddick		When I go, we go. Full-throttle.
riddick		Ready...ready....
riddick		You know the way!
imam		Captain....
fry		It's me, it's me, it's me!
fry		C'mon, Riddick -- said I'd die for them, not you.
fry		Just 10 steps...keep turning, keep turning...that's right...others're already 'board, waitin' for us right now...five steps...c'mon, almost there, Riddick... almost there...we're almost --
riddick		Not for me....
riddick		Probably okay to talk to me now.
audrey		Not sure where to go. I was just runnin' away when this whole thing started.  Where you goin'?
riddick		Not sure. I was just runnin' away when this whole thing....
riddick		Might interest you....
imam		New Mecca....
riddick		Think a soul could get lost there? With all those pilgrim-types?
imam		It's more a place where souls are found, Mr. Riddick.
****Dialogues from script :Planet_of_the_Apes.txt****

shooting script		May 5, 1967  REVISED: 05/11/67 05/16/67 05/23/67 06/09/67 06/15/67 06/22/67 07/06/67 07/27/67
astronaut's voice		 So ends my last signal until we reach our destination. We are now on automatic, a mere hundred and five light years from our base ... and at the mercy of com- puters. I've tucked in my crew for the long sleep. I'll join them presently.
astronaut		Within the hour we shall complete the sixth month of our flight from Cape Kennedy. By our time, that is ...
astronaut's voice		 But according to Dr. Hasslein theory of time in a vehicle traveling at close to the speed of light, old Mother Earth has aged a few thousand years since our de- parture -- while we have scarcely aged at all.
taylor		Dodge! Read the atmosphere!
taylor		Landon! Send a last signal.
landon		 What signal?
landon		It's no use ... there she goes.
taylor		Forget it. Abandon ship.
dodge		 Briny...twenty-five percent salinity. Near the saturation point.
landon		 She's still sinking...
taylor		 We're here to stay.
dodge's voice		 Too red for Bellatrix.
taylor		 We've enough food and water for three days.
dodge		But how long is a day?
taylor		 Landon! Join the expedition.
landon		 I was thinking of Stewart. What d'you suppose happened?
taylor		 Air leak. Died in her sleep.
landon		long pause) You know it.
taylor		It's a fact, Landon. Buy it. You'll sleep better.
taylor		Any sign of dangerous ionization?
dodge		No.
dodge		Which direction?
taylor		 That way.
dodge		Any particular reason?
taylor		Everybody all right?
landon		If only we could get a fix.
landon		 Climb off me, will you!
landon		Taylor.    I'm telling you --
taylor		Oh, and one last item. Immortality. You wanted to go on forever.  Well, you damn near made it. Except for Dodge and me, you've lived longer than anybody. And with Stewart dead, it looks like we're the last of the strain. You got what you wanted, kid. How does it taste?
landon		 Okay. You read me well enough. Why can't I read you?
taylor		But I'm not prepared to die.
dodge		It's a stream bed., no doubt about it -- but bone dry.
taylor		 Never mind the scarecrows.
landon		 Can we take a dip?
taylor		 Okay.
landon		My God..they look almost human.
taylor		Show them we're friendly.
taylor		No cigar.
landon		Try telling them our names.
taylor		Well, if we're looking for an icebreaker...  Listen, folks .....
taylor		Well, at least they haven't tried to bite us.
dodge		Blessed are the vegetarians.
landon		We got off at the wrong stop.
taylor		You're our optimist Look at the bright side. If that's the best there is around here, in six months we'll be running this planet.
dodge		 Look...
landon		Think they'll attack us?
ape photographer		Smile.
galen		Him.
zira		Will he live?
galen		 There's no probe here. Find one!
nurse		Yes, sir.
zira		This place is dirty, doctor.
zira		What do you mean, made it? I'm an animal psychologist, that's all. We don't have any authority.
galen		Hmph.
julius		Simmer down!  You especially.
julius		Good morning, Dr. Zira.
zira		Do we want some sugar, old-timer?
zira		Don't be silly. He's perfectly tame.
zira		Well, Bright Eyes, is our throat feeling better?
taylor		 Listen, listen -- I can speak --
zira		 Awww, it still hurts, doesn't it?
taylor		 I'm not pretending! I can talk!
zira		 Did you see that? It's remarkable!
julius		Huh?
zira		He's trying to form words.
julius		Well, you know what they say. Human see, human do.
julius		Now what?
zira		He seems to want something.
julius		I'd be careful, doctor.
taylor		 What's the matter with you? I can talk! Can't you see that?
zira		Bright Eyes, show him! Go ahead! Do your trick!
zira		Speak! Go on.    Speak again.
taylor		 My - name - isn't - Bright Eyes It's Taylor!
zira		I wonder how held score on a Hopkins manual dexterity test?
zaius		An animal?
julius		Look!
zira		He's moving his fingers!
zaius		Of course. He saw you moving yours.
zira		But perhaps he understood --
zira's voice		 I beg to disagree. According to my exper- iments --
zaius		It's a question of simian survival.
ape guard		Is this the one you wanted, Doctor?
zira		Put her in with him.
cornelius		Do you have to work tonight?
zira		Watch.  Hello, Bright Eyes. How's our throat today?
cornelius		Remembers what?
zira		The blood transfusion.
zira		 Something's bothering him. He's been prying around the lab for the last two days ...
zaius		Oh, yes -- the young ape with a shovel. I hear you're planning another archeological expedition.
zaius' voice		 The project will require my support, of course.
cornelius' voice		 I hope I can count on it, sir.
zaius' voice		 A friendly warning, Cornelius -- when you're digging for artifacts, don't bury your reputation.
a voice		 Guards!
zaius		That man can be domesticated.
zira		I'm sorry, Bright Eyes.
julius		I told you what you'd get!
zira		 Julius, don't. It doesn't matter.
cornelius		 It's a stunt. Humans don't write.
zira		Dear, you're a scientist. Don't you believe your own eyes?
cornelius		 Where did you learn to do this?
zira		 'And you're a fool'.
cornelius		Now, just a minute --
zira		Oh, Cornelius, be quiet.
zira		 'Not fell -- flew!'
cornelius		Flight is a scientific impossibility.
zira		And even if it weren't, why fly? Where would it get you?
cornelius		 Well, now...
zira		 'Do you have maps?'
cornelius		We are here ...  You were captured about here.
cornelius		 Out - of - the - question!.
zira		 'Then how do you account for me?,
cornelius		 It's probably wrong --
cornelius		The evidence was very meager --
zira		You didn't think so then.
zira		'I am not a missing link.'
cornelius		No, thank you'. I won't get into that battle.
zira		Oh, Cornelius, show some strength!
cornelius		 Dr. Zaius --
zaius		 Did you forget our appointment, Cornelius?
cornelius		Oh., no., sir. I was just assembling my notes.
maximus		What is that?
zira		A man, Dr. Maximus.
zira		Yes, Sir. But this -- creature is a special case.
maximus		Why special?
zira		Yes, Sir.
maximus		Return this beast to the compound.
zaius' voice		 What's this?
zira		A toy. It floats on the air.  Try it.
cornelius		 Zira....
zaius		Nonsense.
julius' voice		 What's up, Lieutenant?
minister's voice		 The dear departed once said to me: 'I never met an ape I didn't like'...
child		 Look!. It's a man!
minister		In Heaven's name ...  Get rid of that creature.
first chimp		You see what I saw?
second chimp		Must've escaped from the zoo.
taylor		Dodge ...
zira		Taylor, why'd you run away?
zira		 I'm in charge of this man.
taylor		Get away from me, you dirty ape!
taylor		Let her alone!
taylor		 Take your hands off her, you black monster! You filth!
julius		Turn it off!
taylor		Answer me!
taylor		Where's Dr. Zira? Why--?
julius		I said shut up!
taylor		 Ape! Apes wearing clothes! It's a madhouse! A madhouse!
taylor		 It's probably just as well she didn't live to see this.
taylor		I wonder if it's Love between us.  What a place to find it.
zira		Shhhh!
taylor		What is this?
zira		A hearing.
bailiff		Be seated.
president		 You may proceed, Dr. Honorius.
maximus		 And our purpose is to settle custodial and jurisdictional questions concerning this beast, and determine what's to be done with him.
president		Well, Dr. Zira? This is a man, is he not?
zira		He is unlike any man you have ever seen - as we hope to prove.
honorius' voice		 Objection!
zira		 Then why is he called the accused Your Honors must think him guilty of something.
zaius		This man is not being tried. He is being disposed of.  It is scientific heresy that is actually on trial here.
maximus		Well put, Dr. Zaius. Let us warn our friends that they endanger their own careers by defending this animal.
taylor		Then I'll defend myself.
president		Dr. Zira -- tell Bright Eyes to sit down.
president		It says here that his name is Bright Eyes. You gave him that name yourself.
president		 Bailiff! Make the animal be quiet.
president		Come to the point, Dr. Honorius.
zira		 Thats a lie!
president		 Mind your tongue, madame.
zira		Did we create his mind too? Not only can this man speak. He can write. He can reason.
honorius		He can reason? With the Tribunal's permission, let me expose this hoax by direct examination.
president		Proceed. But don't turn this hearing into a farce.
taylor		 Show this to the President.
zira		 'I have come to you from a planet in a different solar system. I am an explorer in space, with no hostile intentions against your civilization. On my planet it was the primate Man who evolved Into a thinking animal, while the apes remained..."
president		 Stop right there. Bring me that paper.
president		 This is a joke in very poor taste.
zira		Is it a joke to seek the truth about this man?
zaius		 Dr. Zira -- you state here that a ship from outer space sank in an inland sea of our eastern desert.
zira		I do not state it, sir. The prisoner does.
zira		 Like you, I find it difficult.
zira		This is his assertion.
zaius		Where are they now?
taylor		 One is in a museum!
president		 Dr. Zira! Silence that man!
zaius		How sad. Stuffed and mounted, eh? Dead men, like sunken ships, can tell no stories. And his other companion?
zira		He doesn't know.
zaius		Mr. President, I believe the Prosecutor has reassembled all he surviving humans captured in the hunt along with Bright Eyes.
zira		Which one?
taylor		With one of them.
taylor		Landon?
zira		No, I swear -- I never saw this man before.
taylor		 You did this to him! You've removed his frontal lobes!
president		Silence!  Bailiff, take the prisoner inside!
cornelius		May it please the Tribunal: I for one grant that this being cannot have come from another planet. But this much is certain -- he comes from somewhere in the Forbidden Zone. He has described the region to us, and described it accurately, for I have been there.
president		Sustained.  Your archeological theories have no bearing on the disposition of this creature.
zaius		 Let them talk, Mr President. Let them talk.
president		How so?
honorius		Objection!
president		Sustained.
zira		 Their speech organs are adequate. The flaw lies not in anatomy but in the brain.
honorius		Objection!
president		Sustained.
zira		 Sustain all objections, but face the truth!
president		 You have gone too far.
zaius		 There you are, Mr. President. I warned you these two would use this hearing as a forum for subversion.
taylor		What about me?
zaius		 And now the Tribunal has placed you in my custody for...final disposition. Do you know what that means?
taylor		No.
zaius		Emasculation, to begin with. Then experimental surgery. On the speech centers. On the brain. Ultimately, a kind of living death.
zaius		However, it's within my power to grant You a reprieve.  That is why I summoned you here tonight.  Tell me who and what you really are and where you come from, and no veterinary will touch you.
zaius		You lied. Where is your tribe?
zaius		Certainly not.    You're a mutant.
zaius		 Of course.
taylor		 All right, suppose I am a mutant? Why does the appearance of one mutant send you into a panic?
taylor		Then you admit --
taylor		 Dr. Zaius, I know who I am. Who are you? How did this upside down civilization ever get started?
zaius		 Save yourself, Taylor. Tell me -- is there another jungle beyond the Forbidden Zone?
taylor		All right, you can cut me to pieces. It's within your power.  But know this, doctor. You do it because you're afraid of me. You do it from fear!
lucius		Are you Julius?
julius		What do you want?
lucius		I'm from the Office of Animal Affairs.  This male's to be transferred to the zoo.
julius		At this hour? Who says so?
lucius		Hit him!
lucius		 Although I do feel that if it ever came down to a question of whether something like you should be public or private property --
taylor		Come on. Get me out of here.
taylor		She comes along too.
lucius		Zira doesn't want your female.
taylor		I want her.
lucius		 If you insist. But I'm not taking any orders --
taylor		Fine. Just let her out.
zira		 I told you not to bring the other one.
zira		 Get in...hurry.  Put this on.
taylor		Listen-
lucius		 Gorilla hunters ...
lucius		Stand back! He's dangerous!
first hunter		Why?
zira		He's rabid! His bite is fatal!
first hunter		You serious?
lucius		You would die in agony!  Frothing at the mouth!
cornelius		How did it go?
cornelius		 Well, Taylor -- we're all fugitives now.
taylor		Do you have any weapons?
cornelius		The best. But we won't need them.
taylor		Just the same, I want one.
taylor		Fair enough. But you're no longer in charge of me. And I don't mean to be captured again.
taylor		You still don't believe me, do you?
taylor		I know ... Nevertheless, I thank you for saving us. You'll be in trouble for going there.
taylor		 We can't stay there. It's not safe.
cornelius		Right.  Let's put the water and provisions in the wagon.
zira		 Are you going to take her with you?
taylor		Yes.
taylor		Maybe not.
zira		The Hunt Club.
cornelius		To scare us, too. We're entering the Forbidden Zone.
taylor		You can do it. Like this ...
lucius		Something's wrong with your mate.
taylor		Where does the river lead?
taylor's voice		 And beyond that?
taylor		I'm for that.
zira		She's not sick at all.  She's pregnant.
taylor		So I'm not an altogether different breed, you see?
taylor		In my world -- before I left it - only youngsters of your age wore un- scraped hair.
cornelius		Lucius -- don't fire at them.
taylor		Shut up.
zaius		Very well.  Lower your weapons.
taylor		On this planet -- it's easy.
taylor		 And that's your Minister of Science. Honor- bound to expand the frontiers of knowledge.
zira		 Taylor, please --
zaius		 There is no contradiction between faith and science. True science.
taylor		 All right, let's see if you're willing to put that statement to a test.
taylor		No. You saved me from this fanatic. Maybe I can pay you back.
zaius		 What is your proposal?
zaius		Of course.
taylor		Okay.Up to the cave.
taylor		Relax. You'll see it all later.
zaius		Present your evidence, Cornelius.
zaius		 Don't speak to me in absolutes. The evidence is contestable.
cornelius		I apologize.
zaius		What?
cornelius		 Right there. The human doll.
cornelius		 No sir, I haven't forgotten.
zaius		Well? For a time the ancients kept humans as household pets.    Until the Lawgiver proved that man could not be tamed. Keep digging Cornelius. You'll find evidence of the master of this house: an ape.
cornelius		 What are you doing there?
taylor		 Well, whoever owned them was in pretty bad shape.
taylor		Defective eyesight..
zira		Lucius....
taylor		You louse!
taylor		Tell him to pull back!
taylor		I ought to kill you right now.  Let's go.
cornelius		 They've taken everything.
lucius		Disillusioned...  But vindicated! I've been right all along. You can't trust the older generation. It's a matter of values --
taylor		 All right, all right. Will You do me a favor? No orders.
lucius		 What is it?
lucius		 Yes, I can do that.
lucius		What if they won't agree to your terms?
taylor		Then tell them Dr. Zaius won't leave here alive.
zaius		 Deliver the message.
taylor		Sit down. Over there.
taylor		 Now,     Minister of Science - let me explain certain principle stress and strain. If you exert pressure to remove these bonds, you'll choke yourself to death. It'll be suicide, you see?
taylor		Why not?
taylor		 He might have been wiped out by a plague. Natural catastrophe. Like a fiery storm of meteors. From the looks of this part of your planet, I'd say that was a fair bet.
taylor		 Defender of the Faith. Guardian of the terrible secret. Isn't that right, doctor?
taylor		Stay where you     are!
taylor		 And my nose.
zira		But suppose you find nothing but a wasteland. How will you survive?
taylor		Sure.    In a cage.
taylor		No, thanks. I'll take freedom.
taylor		Would you like to come along?
zira		We can't.
taylor		It's better than going to prison for heresy.
cornelius		They can't convict us of that. You proved our innocence. Besides...  ... his culture is our culture.
taylor		God bless you.
taylor		Lucius.
lucius		I think you're making a mistake.
lucius		What?
marcus		Yes, sir.
cornelius		 Seal the cave?
zaius		That's correct. And you will both stand trial for heresy.
zira		But the proof? The doll?
cornelius		You mustn't! You gave your 'word!
zaius		What I do, I do with no pleasure. Silence him.
zaius		I may just have saved it for you.
lucius		What will he find out there, doctor?
zaius		His destiny.
taylor		Yes, Nova -- I see it.  In my old profession green meant safe. Green meant go.
taylor		 My God!
****Dialogues from script :Platinum_Blonde.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Platoon.txt****

gardner		 That what I think it is?
soldier 1		 I guess so ...
sergent		Okay, let's go ...
veterans		Well I'll be dipped in shit - new meat!  Sorry bout that boys - 'sin loi' buddy ... you gonna love the Nam, man, for-fucking-ever.
barnes		What are you waiting for?  He ain't gonna bite you. Move out.
harris		Bravo Two, Six.  What's the delay up there, move it out on point.  We've got a link up at Phase Line Whiskey at One Eight Zero Zero, over.
lieutenant wolfe		Two Bravo, Two move it out.  Six says we're jamming 'em up back there.  Over.
barnes		Tell that dipshit to get fucked.  Get that other freshmeat up here.  Gardner.
doc		You okay?
chris		Ants.  I got ants on my neck ... 
elias		 You're humping way too much, troop, don't need half this shit.  I'll haul it for you but next time you check it out with me okay?
king		You're a sick mother Bunny.
elias		 Hold it up.
chris		 I'm okay ... I'm okay.
francis		Shit, King, it ain't d-e-r-e man, it's d-e-a-r, and Sara don't have no two r's in it, fool.  Shame on you.
king		Don't matter, she knows what it means ... an she don't read too good nohow ...
lerner		Mumm, any time sweetheart.
elias		Lerner, you'd choke to death on it.
captain harris		Sky Six reports a fresh company of NVA moving across from Cambodia to this blue line.  You 'bush in this area near that ol' Buddhist temple we passed on the hump in.  Lt. Hawkins, you take this area in the rubber plantation...
lieutenant wolfe		 No problem sir ...
junior		 Hey Big Harold, gimme your peaches for the fruitcake man.
big harold		 Fuck you bitch.
junior		C'mon man, didn't I do you right that time I give you the turkey loaf for the ham and lima beans shit.
big harold		Tricky bitch, reason you gimme dat turkey loaf is nobody else can eat that shit 'cept me so don't start your game playing with me Junior.
junior		Youse a pig man.  I hope Manny get dat laundry gig for' you do.
big harold		De fool think he's gonna get it but he ain't known for his thinking.
junior		He's a fool alright but you a bigger fool.  Hey, whiteboy, watcha waiting for - dat hole ain't gonna dig itself ...
big harold		 That reminds me, I gotta take a shit.
junior		You gonna wipe your ass dis time?
big harold		Yeah if you let me have your shirt.
chris		 ... the hardest thing I think I've ever done is to go on point, 3 times this week - I don't even know what I'm doing.  A gook could be standing 3 feet in front of me and I wouldn't know it, I'm so tired.  We get up at 5 a.m., hump all day, camp around 4 or 5 p.m., dig foxhole, eat, then put out an all-night ambush or a 3-man listening post in the jungle.  It's scary cause nobody tells me how to do anything cause I'm new and nobody cares about the new guys, they don't even want to know your name.  The unwritten rule is a new guy's life isn't worth as much cause he hasn't put his time in yet - and they say if you're gonna get killed in the Nam it's better to get it in the first few weeks, the logic being: you don't suffer that much.  I can believe that ... If you're lucky you get to stay in the perimeter at night and then you pull a 3-hour guard shift, so maybe you sleep 3-4 hours a night, but you don't really sleep ... I don't think I can keep this up for a year, grandma - I think I've made a big mistake coming here ...
barnes		Yeah, they got two Lieutenants and a Captain.
wolfe		Jesus.
barnes		Elias - you take your squad and I'll take Tex and Francis from your squad. 
elias		I thought it was O'Neill's turn tonight.
elias		 They don't know shit Barnes, and chances are we gonna run into something.
elias		Hey O'Neill why don't you cool it, you don't have to be a prick everyday of your life, you know.
barnes		You get your men ready Elias ...
tex		Shit, looks like rain.  All night too.  Gonna grow mushrooms in your bad-ass crotch Junior.
junior		 Goddamn ain't no justice round here, you break your ass for de white man ... gonna get our act together, do some rappin' wid de brothers, change things ...
crawford		What's O'Neill have a nose up the lieutenant's ass already, how come we always get ambush.
francis		Politics, man, politics.  We always getting fucked around here.
gardner		Hey Chris, I show you a picture of Lucy Jean?
chris		 No ...
gardner		 Yeah she's the one all right ... that's Lucy Jean. She's a-waiting for me.
chris		 Yeah she's real pretty, you're lucky ...
elias		 Tex you got Junior and Taylor here on your position.
tex		Damn, 'Lias this gun's boss.  Put Taylor someplace else.
elias		You got Taylor ...  'Case somethin' happens to you, you get separated or lost don't yell out okay.  Sit tight.  We'll get to you.
barnes		Okay, let's move out.
tex		Taylor, you're on.
chris		 Uh hunh.
tex		 You sure you know how to work the claymore?
chris		 Sure.
tex		Okay ... don't catch no zzz's on me buddy or I'll sling your motherfucking ass ... You hear me?
chris		 Hey Tex - you're ten minutes fast.
tex		Sin Loi. 
chris		Junior!
junior		Unh? ... Unh.
chris		Shaddup!  You're snoring ... Shhh.
tex		THE CLAYMORE!  GET THOSE FUCKERS!
tex		Feed me!
junior		 DOC! GET UP HERE! TEX IS HIT!
shouts		HOLD IT UP! HOLD IT UP!
tex		 MY ARM! JESUS FUCKING CHRIST!
doc		Easy Tex easy boy!
voice		 Doc over here!  Gardner's hit.
doc		'Right there.
tex		 ... godamn!  Godamn!  DUMB FUCKER, DUMB FUCKER!
junior		Oh shit, Doc he's hit too.
chris		 I'm hit ...
junior		 That dumb fuck didn't blow his claymore!
doc		 ... it's a scratch, nothing to worry about.
chris		 Doc ... tell me the truth, don't lie to me.
junior		 He let'em walk right up on us.  He was sleeping on his shift.
chris		 I was not ... it was your ...
doc		 Self-preservation's the first law of nature.  Gotta learn how to work your shit Taylor.  Watch me, don't let'em go into shock.
barnes		Shut up!  Shut up - and TAKE IT!  TAKE THE PAIN!
big harold		You gonna be okay Taylor, okay, don't you start worrying now.
chris		Do you ... do you know you're gonna die ... Big Harold? ... do you feel like ... like ... everything's gonna be fine and then ...
big harold		Bullshit man, you gettin outta the field, man.  Three hots a day, white sheets, dem pretty white nurses give you blowjobs too you pay em enough, I heard tell bout dem white bitches.  Better save yo strength Taylor.
junior		 Don babytalk him man.  Cocksucker fell asleep.  They walked right up on us, he don do shit.
big harold		Shaddup bitch.
chris		It's not ... so bad ... dying.  How long .. it ...
bunny		 That's no NVA man.  That's a chink - look at 'em, the cocksucker's six and a half feet tall.  Look at his gear - good as ours.
francis		Shit I blew my claymore right in one dude's face and I seen him walking around afterwards.
manny		What we fighting here, vampires?
elias		Blood trail just keeps going and going but no body.
barnes		How the hell did he get away?
elias		Fuckers returned fire soon as we lit 'em up.  Hard core fuckin' NVA.  They got their shit together.
ring		 Sarge - Doc wants you.  There's a problem with the new man.
doc		Chopper's on the way Gardner, hang in there, you gonna be okay ...
barnes		 and that goes for you, shit for brains.  You don't SLEEP ON NO FUCKIN' AMBUSH.  Next sonofabitch I catch coppin' z's in the bush I'm personally gonna take an interest in seeing him suffer - I SHIT YOU NOT ...
chris		 I didn't fall asleep, Sergeant, Junior ...
bunny		 Shut your face chicken shit!  You in big trouble boy!
elias		Knock it off!  We got two men need attention here. Police up your extra ammo and frags, don't leave nothing for the dinks.  Hoyt, Junior, carry Gardner.
junior		 Let de white boy carry his ass, he this dude that got him fucked up.  Who'd be hauling his ass if that was a brother laying there?
elias		Man'd be alive if he'd had a few more days to learn something.
king		Hey Taylor, what's in the breeze?
chris		Okay - got light duty, three days.
king		Shit, too bad we in base camp anyway.
chris		What you got there - beers?
king		Yeah, just stole me some from the Top's supply but he's stealing it from us anyway.  Chucks are coming.  You better 'didi' man.
chris		 Uh, looks like it?
sanderson		 Where'd you get that beer King?
king		 I found it ...
sanderson		You found it? ... Bullshit!  You going on report. Gimmee that shit.
chris		I got light duty, Sarge.  Doctor said to take it easy couple days.
king		 ... Motherfuckah, motherfuckah, I'm too short to be dealing with this shit!  They keep fucking with us man, no letup ...
crawford		 Politics man, fuckin' politics.  That O'Neill man got his nose so far up Top's ass he gotta be Pinocchio...
king		Forty-two days man and a wakeup and I'm a gone motherfucker.  Back to de WORLD. 
crawford		Broke a 100.  Got 92 to go.  April 17.  DEROS man. California this summer.  Waves are good they tell me, surfin's gonna be good ...
king		March man in Tennessee, sniff the pines ... sniff that crossmounted pussy walkin' down by the river. What you got Taylor?  Let's see three hundred and WHAT?
crawford		 Oh man!  Sorry bout that.  I can't even remember when I was 332.  You gotta count backwards like you got 40 days in - think positive.
king		 How the fuck you get over here man, you look like you educated ...
chris		I volunteered.
king		You WHAT?  Say 'gain.
chris		Yeah, I dropped out of college and told 'em I wanted infantry, combat, and Nam ...
crawford		You volunteered for this shit man?
king		You a crazy fucker, givin' up college man.
chris		Didn't make much sense.  Wasn't learning anything ...  And why should just the poor kids go to the war - and the college kids get away with it.
king		What we got here a crusader?
crawford		Sounds like it.
king		Sheeit, gotta be rich in the first place to think like dat.  Everybody know the poor always being fucked by the rich.  Always have, always will.
chris		Nah ...
king		Here have some of this.  Won't feel a thing.
chris		No, thanks ...
king		Go on, whatcha gotta lose, yo' here now ...
crawford		Kills the smell of shit anyway.
king		Suck it in.  Hold it ... That's it.  Now let it out.
chris		Don't feel it.
king		Dat's what they all say.
chris		... you know that night we got hit ... I ... 
king		Fuck it, don't mean nothing, no such thing here as a coward, done your best man, next time y'do better.
crawford		History, man, history.
chris		 I think I'm starting to feel that stuff ...
king		 Yo getting there Taylor.  You be cool now and I'll introduce you 'round to some of the 'heads'.
chris		What are the heads?
king		 Later ...
rhah		Whatcha doing in the underworld Taylor?
king		 This ain't Taylor.  Taylor been shot.  This man Chris been resurrected ...
rhah		You lame Taylor?
chris		What?
rhah		You lame or something?
king		 ... go ahead on, smoke it man.
rhah		Your shit's in the wind troop.  Baaaaah!
lerner		And Baaaaaaa! back on you.
rhah		 If you're gonna do it man, 'least do it right.
lerner		I didn't like it.
rhah		Bah, you're a child, Lerner.  Rhah don't waste time on you.
elias		Put your mouth on that.
chris		Yeah.
elias		Then the worm has definately turned for you man.
chris		 Yeah.  No pain in my neck now.  Feels good.
elias		Feelin' good's good enough.
lerner		Shit.  Sold me out for some lame dude with a 4-F.
elias		What'd you say her name was again?
lerner		 Daisy Mae.
big harold		Hey look at Charlotte!
elias		Daisy Mae!  What Daisy Mae look like Crutcher?
manny		She look huge and got freckles on her ass.
lerner		She look beautiful.
francis		How much she weigh man?
big harold		She braid her hair under her armpits, Crutcher.
francis		 Daisy Mae what?
king		Daisy Mae Highway, that's what.  Well whatcha want, Lerner, your dick been limp for a year, 'cept when you're bopping your buddy Tony up there.
lerner		Fuck that.
elias		I fucked this chick in Hawaii man.  Couple weeks ago ... Oooooh!  Wow - outasight.  Gracie Slick man, she looked like Gracie man, I shit you not. 
manny		What happened man.  What whorehouse you go to?
elias		No whorehouse man.  On the beach.
francis		Sure.
elias		Yeah, sure.  She walked right by me.  Long black hair, tits swinging.  Ass like French bread.  Legs don't end right.
lerner		 You can plant that shit in Tennessee man, but it won't come up in Texas.
crawford		So what she got, hair on her tits.
elias		I just stopped man.  My heart's beating like a hardon right I got a hardon sticking through my pants, my bathing suit looks like a hutch ...
big harold		I know dat feeling ...
elias		So I'm thinking to myself - Elias you walk away from this, you gonna regret this the rest of your natural life.  So I go after her, follow her down the beach. You know find out if she is what she is.
king		And?
elias		Well she was picking up her kids.
manny		Dat's dat.
elias		No, dat ain't dat.
francis		Get outta here, she married ...
elias		Like two hogs in heat.  Boy.
chris		 ... But what'd she do?
elias		What didn't she do.  She fucked the living shit outta me, that's what she did!
crawford		 Jesus!
elias		Couldn't get enuff ...
chris		But what'd she actually do?
elias		She was a crossbreed, Chinese and Polish.
big harold		What dat?
rhah		 And living in Hawaii man?
elias		Yeah - and has blonde hair and almond-shaped eyes.
francis		Hey man didn't you say she had black hair?
elias		She had blonde hair man.  And long tan legs, in those leather sandals you know, with those thongs up to her knees, this musky oil on it ... mmmm smelled good when they were wrapped around my face ...
doc		Yeah!
chris		God!
big harold		Please, somebody hold my dick!
elias		 ... and a broken nose.
doc		Broken man?
elias		Yeah, otherwise she would've been too perfect, y'know what I mean ... some woman.  Her name was ...
lerner		Susan?
manny		Tamara?
chris		Elizabeth?
king		Merle?
rhah		Merle?  Jesus!  ... Patty?
big harold		Inga?
chris		Jennifer?
hoyt		Connie?
elias		Dawn!  That was it!
chris		 Dawn ...
king		Dawn?
big harold		Yeah, Dawn ...
bunny		 Listen to that shit, that's good shit!
junior		 Fuck that redneck noise, dude.  All dem chicks be rappin' how dey losin' der' ho's and how dey ain't got no bread for beer.  Fuck dat honky shit.  Got to get me some motown jams, dig it?
bunny		 Whaddaya talking shit for man.  Hey Junior!  Y'ever smoke any shit?
junior		Das right dude.  You be tryin' to string de black man out on dat shit and keep him DOWN.  Time's be coming, my man, when de black man's gonna throw off that yoke.
bunny		 Where the hell's everybody, they'se gettin high that's what - bunch of hopheads, they think they special ...
junior		 Don you worry Bunny, youse a killer anyway.
bunny		Yeah but I still like a piece of pussy once in a while - ain't nothing like a piece of pussy cept
junior		Youse so fucked up man.
bunny		Y'ever look at yoself in the mirror Junior, youse uglier than a dick on a dog man. 
junior		Yeah, you had a piece of pussy on a plate in front of you, you'd probably kill it.
bunny		Shit, I bet I been laid more'n you have.
junior		Sure, you probably stick it in tween her knees and think youse there.
bunny		Yeah?
junior		Only way you'd get some pussy is your bitch dies and wills it to you - and then maybe.
lieutenant wolfe		 How you doing Rodriguez?
rodriguez		Good sir.
wolfe		Need anything?
rodriguez		No sir.
wolfe		 Looks like you're doing all right Sergeant.
barnes		Yeah, and I ain't even cheating yet.
barnes		Play Lieutenant?
wolfe		Nah, I wouldn't want to get raped by you guys ...
wolfe		Catch you men later.  Enjoy yourselves.
all		'... Since you've left me, if you've seen me with another girl seeming like I'm having fun although she may be cute she's just a substitute because you're the permanent one ...'
barnes		Pssst!
chris		Where?
sanderson		Hey look at that.
sal		 Leave it willya - it's gook shit.
sanderson		Nah this stuff's important.
barnes		Corpsman!
doc		Holy Jesus!
elias		Tell Six we need engineers here, this pos. is crawling with traps.
wolfe		They're on their way ...  There's a gook village half a klik downriver, Battalion wants us to move in and search it ASAP, something's going on ... where's Barnes?
barnes		You gonna sit there and play with yourself Taylor or you gonna be part of my war ... Awright, saddle up, let's go - Tubbs you got point.
warren		Manny! ... Hey Buchanan.
francis		Hey man whatcha doing ... where you at?  Get your black ass back in here!
bunny		Hey pig, pig - come here, pig, pig.
tony		There goes one!
barnes		 Check him out.
barnes		Get out of there you fuckheads move!  Move!
fu sheng		 Sarge, we found some shit!
chris		La Dai! La Dai! GET THE FUCK OUTTA THERE!
francis		Hey take it easy man.  They're scared.
chris		They're scared?  What about me!  I'm sick of this shit man, I"m sick of this shit!  They don't want us here!  Who do you think they're fighting for!  GET OUTTA THERE!
barnes		 Burn it.
bunny		Hey look at this! Ma and Pa Kettle here.  Look at them - greasy gook motherfuckers!
chris		Get up out of there! ... You see I didn't wanna hurt you.  Why didn't you come out, when I said so hunh! Why? WHY! WHY? DON'T YOU LISTEN ... WHAT ARE YOU SMILING AT HUNH! FUCKING ASSHOLES!
bunny		Do 'em man, do 'em.
chris		 DANCE YOU ONE-LEGGED MOTHERFUCKER, DANCE!!!
francis		 Let's get out of here man.
bunny		 You chickenshit man, they're laughing at you, look at them faces.  That's the way a gook laughs.
bunny		Fucker!
barnes		Where'd he get these wounds?
lerner		He says he was hit in a bombing raid.
tony		He's a dink fosure.
barnes		Ask him what the weapons are doing here?
lerner		He says they had no choice.  The NVA killed the old honcho when he said no.  He says the rice is theirs.
barnes		Bullshit ... who the hell was the dink we just nailed on the riverbank?
lerner		... He says he doesn't know, NVA haven't been around in a couple of months.  Maybe it was a scout or ...
barnes		Yeah sure it was.  What about all that fucking rice and the weapons ... who they for? 
ace		You're goddamn right he does!
lerner		 He swears he doesn't know anything!  He hates the NVA but they come when they want and ...
junior		He's lying through his teeth!
tony		Waste the fucker, then see who talks.
barnes		What's the bitch saying?
lerner		 She's going on, I don't know - why are we shooting the pigs, they're farmers ... they got to make a living, all that crap ...
barnes		 Tell him he talks or I'm gonna waste more of 'em.
lerner		They don't know Sarge, they don't know! 
ace		 Hey Sarge can we get in on this.
tony		Let's go all the way, let's go for it!  Let's do the whole fucking village.  Come on, Sarge.
barnes		This his daughter, right?
elias		BARNES!!
barnes		 Stay out of this Elias.  This ain't your show.
elias		YOU AIN'T A FIRING SQUAD, YOU PIECE OF SHIT!!
lieutenant wolfe		BREAK IT UP!  ELIAS!  BARNES!
barnes		You're dead, you're fucking dead Elias!
elias		YOU - you're going to fuckin' jail, buddy, you ain't getting away with this one!!!!!
wolfe		All right!  All right!  All right!!!  NOW BREAK IT UP.  LET'S GO ...
elias		 Why the fuck didn't you do something Lieutenant!
wolfe		What are you talking about! 
elias		 You know what I'm talking about!
wolfe		No I don't.  I don't know what the fuck you're talking about, Elias! 
king		Whew! - where that come from?
rhah		Found it.  Growing in a garden.
king		 Sheeit, beats burning hutches anyway ...
rhah		Yeah - stoned's the way to be ...
tony		Take her up the ass ...
chris		LET HER GO!  YOU HEAR ME!  YOU ASSHOLE!  LET HER GO!
tony		What the fuck you want - she's a dink.
chris		NO - YOU STUPID FUCK ... DON'T ... DON'T ... YOU TOO BUNNY.  MOREHOUSE.  OFF!  NO!  DON'T ... DON'T!
elias		Get outta here.
chris		 It's okay, it's okay ...
captain harris		... and you Lieutenant?
lieutenant wolfe		I didn't see anything sir.
elias		I did.
lieutenant wolfe		That dink was reported to me as NVA sir by Sergeant Barnes.  Sergeant Barnes.
elias		My report sir, will include Lt.Wolfe as being witness to the shooting ...
captain harris		All right, Elias.  Sergeant Barnes, I want a report from you ...
barnes		You got it sir - and I can throw in plenty of eye- witnesses if you want sir ...
harris		Not now.  We'll get into this when we get back to base camp.  Right now I need every man in the field, I want your guys to stick together ... Elias? Barnes? ... You hear me?  This is no time for fighting with each other. 
wolfe		Don't worry about it Sergeant, he won't be able to prove a thing, he's a troublemaker but ...
barnes		Elias' a waterwalker ... like them politicians in Washington.  Want to fight their war with one hand tied round their balls.  Ain't no time or need for a courtroom out here ...
bunny		Thataway Sarge, fuckin' Elias man, fuckin' squeal that's what he is, gonna get everybody in the platoon in shit.  Somebody oughta fix his ass ...
bunny		Ya worry too much O'Neill ...
rhah		I know Barnes six months and I'll tell ya something - that man is MEAN, red in his soul like a dick on a dog.
king		Barnes gets killed, his jaws'd go on clacking ...
chris		Where's he form?
rhah		Barnes comes from Hell.
lerner		Tennessee someplace.  Hill country.
rhah		Barnes took a bullet right there.  At Ia Drang Valley ...  And the cocksucker SURVIVED - that's BAAAD man. That's his high, baby.  High on WAR!
king		He done a year in Japan in the hospital, then when he gets out, the first thing he done is re-up.  Four years he been in the field ...
rhah		... and you know how many times he done been shot?  Seven.
chris		And he still wanted to come back?
lerner		Does a pee wee wanna take a wee wee?
rhah		The Good Lord works his revenge in strange ways.
king		Yeah, you done said it.  Revenge on US.
chris		Does he have a metal plate in his head?
rhah		 You mean he's crazy?  No more crazy'n the rest of us been out in the bush too long.
lerner		Well he ain't normal that's fosure.
rhah		That's what he is ... Baaaa!
king		Love, yeah!
lerner		 Here we go again with the crazy preacher stuff.  Rhah seen too many movies.
rhah		Baaa, got no time to go to the movies.  Love and Hate too busy fighting for possession of my soul.
chris		Where's Elias come from?
rhah		 'Lias come naturally.
lerner		... don't know.  Done some time.  Heard he worked the oil wells in Oklahoma, made some bread and washed up in El Lay.
king		Yeah, get married to some crazy El Lay bitch, an actress or somethin', she blew all his bread - LSD, gurus, all that California shit, and then she turns him into the cops on a drug rap.
rhah		Not the only man to meet his Jezebel either.
king		So he got a reduced and come over here.  Nam's his freedom man, Nam's his pussy.  Three years he been here.
chris		Three years, Jesus, he's crazy as Barnes ...
king		Well sometimes a man jes don' wanna go back.  How you gonna talk to civilians man?  People back in the world just don't give a shit, y'know what I mean, to them you're a fuckin' animal is all -
lerner		 I was home on leave y'know and everybody's just worried 'bout making money, everybody's out for themselves, they don't even want to talk about it man, it's like the fucking Twilight Zone back there - you wouldn't even KNOW there's a war on here.  My sister says to me why you have to go there like I started this ...
rhah		Baaaa!  Fuck it, they sold us out - so what!  What'd you'all expect?  Civilian life is phoney BULLSHIT man.  They're ROBOTS man - watchin' dopey television and drivin' dopey cars, and they fuck up, nobody dies.  That's all right, you keep fuckin' up, politicians keep lyin'.  Cause it don't really matter.  Don't mean shit.  So what!  Whatcha want - a parade!  Fuck that too!  No war time no grunt never got no respect.  Till he was dead - and even THEN! You're fighting for YOURSELF man!  You're fighting for your SOUL, dat's all.  Remember dat.  And it's some goddamn battle too - if you'se a man, wrestle with that angel ...  ... Love and Hate - the whole shitbang show, that's the story then and now and it ain't hardly gonna change ...
chris		... I can't sleep, why don't you get some sack time.
elias		... don't feel like it either.
chris		... beautiful night.
elias		Yeah.  I love this place at night.  The stars ... there's no right or wrong in them, they're just there.
chris		That's a nice way of putting it.
elias		 Barnes believes in what he's doing.
chris		And you, do you believe?
elias		In '65 - yeah.  Now ...  No.  What happened today's just the beginning.  We're gonna lose this war ...
chris		 You really think so ... us?
elias		... we been kicking other people's asses so long I guess it's time we got our own kicked.  The only decent thing I can see coming out of here are the survivors - hundreds of thousands of guys like you Taylor going back to every little town in the country knowing something about what it's like to take a life and what that can do to a person's soul - twist it like Barnes and Bunny and make 'em sick inside and if you got any brains you gonna fight it the rest of your life cause it's cheap, killing is cheap, the cheapest thing I know and when some drunk like O'Neill starts glorifying it, you're gonna puke all over him and when the politicians start selling you a used war all over again, you and your generation gonna say go fuck yourself 'cause you know, you've seen it, and when you know it, deep down there ...
chris		Do you believe that stuff about ... knowing you're gonna die?
elias		Yeah, those are the guys that live.  I really don't think Death gives a shit, it's like a giant garbage can, I think it takes whatever it can get ... you never know where it's gonna come from anyway ... so why spin your wheels?
chris		... You ever think about reincarnation, all that stuff?
elias		Sure, goes on all the time.  Maybe a piece of me's in you now, who knows.  But when you die - really die - that's a big return ticket.  ... yeah, a deer ...
harold		Shit, lookit this little fucker trying to get up ma glory hole.
francis		Hey Big Harold, put dat in your turkey loaf it won't come out your back end.
king		 Yeah, big boy, thought you had that laundry gig all laid out?
big harold		 Shit, got to paint myself white get one of dem jobs. Get ma request in for a circumcision.
king		Gonna be a rabbi man?
francis		Gonna cut your pecker down to size hunh Big Harold?
big harold		Dat's okay wid me, better to have a small one den no one at all.
king		Your girlfriends gonna look for new lovers, man. Best thing a bro's got's his flap.
harold		I'll drink to your flap in Chicago, King.  All I gotta do is stretch it out to 15 days and I'll be short 15 and the Beast just wouldn't dare send me back to the bush.
francis		You gonna get some for me back in the World, Harold? Whatcha gonna do? 
harold		The world's gonna be ma oyster man.  First's I gonna EAT - all the hamburger and french fries and steaks soaked in onions and ketchup I can get.  Then I'se gonna FUCK and SUCK Sandy Bell till I sore all over and can't fuck no more, and den I'se gonna SLEEP for DAYS, for WEEKS!  Den I'se gonna think bout what comes next ...
rhah		... you got one right there.
lieutenant wolfe		 All right move out.
fu sheng		Don't drink that asshole.  You're gonna get malaria.
junior		Shit I hope so!
lerner		Hey Sarge, you wanna tell me which way or do I get to figger it out?
francis		DOC!  Over here - we got ... one ... two down. Warren's hit.
chris		What's going on?
king		WATCH OUT!  ROCKET!
chris		Who's on point?
rhah		Where you goin' man!
barnes		Goddamit, you assholes get fucking' firepower out there!  Spread it out!  More to the flanks!  Look for a fuckin' target!
chris		 Where's Lerner?
francis		 Out there man - behind the log.
chris		Oh Jesus!
chris		Lerner!  Lerner, can you hear me man?
wolfe		 Redleg, Redleg ... Ripper Bravo Two Actual.  Fire mission.  Grid six-four-niner ... four-zero-two. Direction six-one-zero-zero.  Dinks dug in bunkers. Danger close.  Adjust fire, over ...
radio voice		Rog, Two Bravo.  Solid copy, stand by for shot, out.
ace		Sir, Bravo Three is inbound from the Sierra Whiskey. Should be here in two zero mikes if'n they don' hit any shit.
wolfe		Fuckin' A!
elias		Lootenant, they're kickin our ass, they know we're gonna bring heavy shit on 'em pretty soon so they're gonna get in tight under the arty.  I spotted a cut running around to the left.  Lemme take some men and roll up that flank ..  I can work right up on 'em ...
wolfe		 Get me Barnes ... I don't know 'Lias, we got four down up there, if I split you off, we ...
elias		Look, Lootenant ...
barnes		 Where the fuck is red platoon!  Tell 'em to get their asses up here!  What the fuck you doin' back here Elias?  Round up your assholes and move 'em up front, we're getting chopped to shit.
elias		 Third Platoon's coming up the stream to reinforce us. Flank's wide open, dinks get 3-4 snipers in these holes, when Third Platoon comes up, they'll get us in a crossfire with 'em.  We'll shoot each other to shit, then they'll hit us with everything they got. It'll be a massacre!
wolfe		Sounds pretty far out to me 'Lias.
elias		Maybe but I seen it happen at Ia Drang in '66, First Cavalry and they cut us to fuckin' pieces!  Give me three men, if I'm wrong, I can still roll up that flank.
barnes		 Take off, but keep your radio here.
elias		... You keep pouring out that suppressing fire, Barnes.  I don't wanna be caught out there with my ass hanging out you hear me?
barnes		Don't tell me how to fight this fucking war, 'Lias, you go crying to fucking brigade on your time.  Out here you belong to me.  Now move.
ace		Sir!  Shot out.  Arty's on the way!
barnes		 Get that asshole O'Neill up here willya!
big harold		Short round!  It's short, man!  They fuckin' got Fu Sheng!  BARNES! OVER HERE!
barnes		That fuckin' idiot!
bunny		Satchel charge!  GET DOWN!
chris		Take care of him Doc!  Please!
lerner		... don't ... don't leave me man ...
rhah		Taylor - get your ass over here.  Move!
chris		Hang tough, Gator.  Hang in there, man, you're gonna be OK ... just hang on.
barnes		YOU IGNORANT ASSHOLE! - What the fuck coordinates you giving!  You killed a bunch of people with that fucked up fire mission!  You know that? ... ah shit!
elias		Move it!  Move it!
rhah		 Gotcha.
elias		One of them gets through it's curtains.
rhah		Where you going?
elias		Down along the river 'bout 100 metres, 'case they try to flank us there.  Third Platoon's coming up on our rear so watch for 'em.
chris		I'll go with you.
elias		No ... I move faster alone. 
rhah		 Okay Crawford - over here.  Taylor - down twenty yards behind that tree.
barnes		Let's move back, link up with Three.  Let the arty do a little work. 
wolfe		What about Elias?  We pull back they'll be cut off. He needs cover fire.
barnes		 ... don't send Bravo Three up till I get back to the CP.  Now move out, all of you.
chris		GET EM!!!!!
rhah		I got one ...
chris		... See them go down?  Like fuckin' target practice man, fuck you Charlie!!  Ho Chi Minh sucks dead dick! ... Crawford! 
rhah		Looks like a lung babe.  But you're gonna be all right, you only need one of them fuckers.
crawford		Oh shit man I never thought I'd get hit, I was ... 
rhah		Stay cool.  We gonna carry you out.
barnes		Where's Elias?
rhah		... came through right over there.  We got three of them, we ...
barnes		Didn't you hear the arty shift?  We're pulling back. Get your wounded man and get the fuck back to the church.  Get going.
chris		 ... but 'Lias is still out there.
barnes		I'll get him.  You get the man in, Taylor  NOW.  Or I'll Article 15 both your asses.  Move!
rhah		Taylor!
barnes		Elias is dead.  Join up with the platoon.  Move it.
chris		 He's dead!  Where?  ... You saw him?
barnes		Yeah.  Back about 100 metres.  He's dead, now get going, the gooks are all over the fuckin' place.
wolfe		MOVE IT MOVE IT MOVE IT.
king		Man, you gonna be in Japan this time tomorrow, Big Harold.
big harold		Yeah, I'se lucky dis time, what's a leg to get the fuck outta here ...  Eat ma shit, you motherfuckers!
chris		He killed him.  I know he did.  I saw his eyes when he came back in ...
radio voice		 How do you know the dinks didn't get him.  You got no proof man.
chris		Proof's in the eyes.  When you know you know.  You were there Rhah - I know what you were thinking.  I say we frag the fucker.  Tonight.
king		I go with dat, an eye for an eye man.
doc		Right on, nothing wrong with Barnes another shot in the head wouldn't cure.
rhah		 Shit boy you been out in the sun too long.  You try that, he'll stick it right back up your ass with a candle on it.
chris		Then what do you suggest big shot?
rhah		 I suggest you watch your own asses cause Barnes gonna be down on ALL OF 'EM.
francis		How you figger that?
rhah		Shit man - Human nature.
king		Then you jes gonna forget 'bout Elias and all the good times we done had?  Right in here.
rhah		He dugged his own grave.
doc		 He dug it.
rhah		He DUGGED it too.
chris		Fuck this shit!
rhah		You guys trying to cure the headache by cutting off the head.  'Lias didn't ask you to fight his battles and if there's a Heaven - and god, I hope so - I know he's sitting up there drunk as a fuckin' monkey and smokin' shit cause HIS PAINS HE DONE LEFT DOWN HERE. Baaaaaaaaa! 
chris		You're wrong man!  Any way you cut it Rhah, Barnes is a murderer.
king		Right on.
rhah		I remember first time you came in here Taylor you telling me how much you admired that bastard.
chris		I was wrong.
rhah		 Wrong?  You ain't EVER been right - 'bout nothing. And dig this you assholes and dig it good!  Barnes been shot 7 times and he ain't dead, that tell you something?  Barnes ain't meant to die.  Only thing can get Barnes ... is Barnes!
barnes		 Talking 'bout killing?
chris		KILL YOU MOTHERFUCKER!!!
rhah		EASY BARNES, EASY MAN!!!
barnes		 Death?  What do you guys know about it?
ace		... they caught 'em last night pulling some shit on Charlie Company.  They found maps on 'em, man - got a friend at Battalion says they had every fuckin' foxhole here fixed on it.  Distances, treelines, our claymores, trip wires, everything?  I shit you not.
doc		Shit, so what the fuck are we doing here?  Why don't we move ...  Bad vibes, man, I got bad vibes here.  Where are the new guys they provided us anyway.
tony		I heard we's in Cambodia right fuckin' NOW.
francis		You kidding man ...
rhah		You wanted to see me sir?
wolfe		Jackson, looks like you got Elias' squad now.
rhah		Squad?  I didn't know we was still referring to this platoon in terms of squads sir. 
wolfe		 These two holes are yours ...
rhah		Begging your pardon Lieutenant but my holes are far enuff apart you could run a regiment through there and nobody'd see them - I got five live bodies left ...
wolfe		I don't want to hear your problems, Jackson.  You'll get new men any day.  Time being you make do like everybody else.
rhah		Hey Lieutenant I didn't ask for this job, I ...
wolfe		 I don't want to hear about it Jackson.
rhah		 You don't want to hear about it?
wolfe		 That's right.  I don't want to hear about it 'cause to tell you the truth, I don't give a shit okay ... I just don't give a shit anymore.
rhah		 Right ...
wolfe		 This is one time we could sure use Elias.
ace		 'Some people say I'm wishy washy.  Maybe I am.  Maybe I ain't.'
king		Glad I ain't going with 'em.  Somewhere out dere man is de Beast and he hungry tonight ... Man, what a bummer.  Ten days and a wakeup and I'm still dealing wid this shit - fuckin' etcetera and ad infinitum man ...
chris		... there's nobody.
king		 You been smoking too much shit babe.  Gotta control that.  Takes a man down ... I remember when you first come out to the bush, you was straight as a ...
chris		Who gives a shit!
king		 'People say I'm the life of the party cause I tell a joke or two although I may be laughing loud and hardy deep inside I'm blue ...'
chris		Y'ever get caught in a mistake King and you just can't get out of it?
king		Way out of anything, man.  Just keep your pecker up, your powder dry, the worm WILL turn.  How many days you short?
chris		Not just me ... it's the way the whole thing works. People like Elias get wasted and people like Barnes just go on making up rules any way they want and what do we do, we just sit around in the middle and suck on it!  We just don't add up to dry shit.
king		Does a chicken have lips?  Whoever said we did, babe. Make it outta here, it's all gravy, every day of the rest of your life man - gravy.  Oh shit, superlifer!
chris		Hey that's great King, that's great ... you take it on home for me, you tell 'em King ... got your address right?  You know where you can reach men, man.  Anytime!
king		I gotta didi man.  Don't wanna miss that chopper. I'll send you a postcard.  After I get me some.  I'll send you some tapes too man.  This new guy Jimi Hendrix man, whew ... you okay Taylor?  Just 'member take it easy now, don't think too much, don't be a fool, no such thing as a coward cause it don't mean nuthin.  Jes keep on keepin' on.  Okay my man ...
chris		I'll walk you out ...
tony		Rumor goin' round is they got tanks.  Soviet shit, T- 34's ...  Hey Rodriguez, don't you ever say nothing?
rodriguez		 What do you want me to say, it's all the same ol' shit.
barnes		So what's the problem?
barnes		Shit.  Get your boots on Martin, next time I catch you putting mosquito repellant on your fuckin' feet I'm gonna courtmartial your nigger ass.
junior		 DEN COURTMARTIAL ME MOTHERFUCKAH, bust my ass, send me to fucking Long Binh, do your worst but I ain't walking no more.  De white man done got his last klik outta me.  Get some chuck dude to hump this shit.
barnes		 Get me that centipede, O'Neill.
barnes		Yeah that long hairy orange and black bastard I found in the ammo crate.  I'm gonna put it in this asshole's crotch, see if he can walk.
junior		No!  Wait!  I'll walk, fuck you I'll walk, I don't need this shit!  I don't need this shit!
bunny		Fucking pussy, fuck it Sarge, I gotta have him on my hole?
barnes		 Yeah, what is it?
barnes		I can't do that for you, Red ... We need every swinging dick in the field.  Sorry bout that ... 
barnes		I'm talking to you Red and I'm telling you no.  Get back to your position.
barnes		 ... everybody gotta die sometime Red ... Get back to your foxhole.
smoking man		Got a light?
chris		Uh sure ...
smoking man		... later.
bunny		... y'know some of the things we done, I don't feel like we done something wrong but sometimes y'know I get this bad feeling.  Not all that shit the Chaplain's jamming up our ass 'bout the Good Lord ... just a fucking bad feeling, y'know what I mean? Don't know why.  I told the Chaplain the truth is I really like it here.  You do what you want, nobody fucks with you.  Only worry you got's dying and if dat happens you won't know about it anyway.  So what the fuck ... 
junior		 Fuck! I gotta be on this hole with YOU man.  I just know I shouldna come!
bunny		Don't you worry bout a thing Junior, you with Audie Murphy here, my man ...
harris		Bravo Three Alpha!  Send me a grid.  Send me a grid, over!
radio voice		We're pinned down sir, they're in the fucking trees! The trees -
harris		OK, Three Alpha, calm down now, son.  I'm gonna get you a fire mission ASAP.  Smoke'll be first ...
radio voice		 Lieutenant's dead sir, radioman look dead sir, I don't know where the map is Captain!  They're all around us sir.  They're moving!  Hundreds of em!  I can hear em talking gook!!!  Jesus Christ!
harris		 ... Just spot the smoke son and tell me where to shift.  We'll get you out of there.  Just hang tough and tell me where the rounds hit, over.
harris		Bravo Three Alpha six.  How bout those rounds son? Can you adjust fire? 
francis		Oh shit me I wish I was back in Memphis now, oooh baby this is gonna be a motherfucker!
chris		Trip flares! ... Rodriguez's hole.
voice		 MEDIC!!  DOC!  DOC!
rhah		 Taylor!  Francis!
chris		Over here!
rhah		 Okay, here it is - one, we got gooks in the fuckin' perimeter.
francis		Oh shit!  Dat's it, dat's it ...
rhah		They got through Alpha Company!  Anything behind you don't identify itself, blow it away.  Two - air strike's coming in.  They gonna lay snake and nape right on the perimeter so stay tight in your holes and don't leave 'em.
chris		Hold it!  WHO IS IT!
francis		Come on man!
chris		No!
terrified soldier		DON'T SHOOT!  DON'T SHOOT!
chris		It's the ambush!  In here, man!  Hurry.
terrified soldier		Water!  Water!
francis		 Back there.
terrified soldier		You guys get outta here!  They're right on my ass and they ain't stoppin' for shit!
francis		Taylor, let's di-di man!
chris		You go.
major		 Get me Bravo!
rto 2		Charlie Company reports hand to hand on the perimeter sir.  Three holes are down.  They need help!
major		 Okay move two squads from Alpha down there.  Where's that goddamn air strike, you bet your ass if we were the First Cav they'd be here now.
rto 1		 Bravo Six sir.
master sergeant		Hey you boys!  Which Company you ...
rto 3		SIR!!
chris		Oh no!
chris		There!
francis		 YAAAAAHHHH!!!!  KILLLLL!!!
chris		 DIE YOU MOTHERFUCKERS!!!
bunny		Come on MOTHERFUCKERS, COME ON!!!
junior		Fuck this shit!  I ain't dyin' in no white man's war! Ise didi-ing this motherfuckah!
bunny		 Get back here you gutless shit ...
nva soldier		Diiiiikaaeeeeeee!
ace		Negative contact.  Can't raise Barnes, Two Bravo, Two Charlie, nothin'!
wolfe		Get me Six!
ace		It's Doc!
doc		They're coming through all over!  I can't ... I can't do ...
wolfe		Where's Barnes!
doc		I think he's dead ... it's awful, they're all dying.
ace		Six!
wolfe		We've been overrun Captain, we're pulling back. Over!
harris		 Bravo Two, Six!  Goddamit where the hell you plannin' to pull back to!  They're all over the perimeter.  Be advised Lieutenant, you WILL hold in place and you will FIGHT and that means YOU, Lieutenant.  Out!
ace		You're an asshole Lieutenant, you know that.
harris		 Snakebite leader, Ripper Bravo Six, we're gonna need you soonest be advised I've got zips in the wire down here, over!
pilot's voice		 Roger your last Bravo Six, Snakebite lead we can't run it any closer.  We're hot to trot and packing snape and nape but we're bingo fuel.  It's your call, Six actual, Over.
harris		Snakebite leader, Bravo Six, for the record, it's my call.  Dump everything you got left ON MY POS.  I say again, I want all you're holding INSIDE the perimeter.  It's a lovely war.  Bravo Six Actual and Out.
pilot's voice		Roger your last Bravo Six.  We copy it's your call. Get em in their holes down there.  Hang tough, Bravo Six we are coming cocked for treetops.  Whiskey to Echo ... Snakebite Two, this is lead.  Last pass on zero niner.  Watch my smoke to target, expend all remaining.  Follow my trace ...
chris		Barnes!
barnes		Get me a Medic will ya.  Go on ...
monster man		 Bozo!  Get back here!
rhah		 Yeah, that's good shit ...
radio operator		 - 37 U.S. KIA, 122 wounded and still counting. Estimate 500 Victor Charlie KIA, 22 wounded and still counting.  Over.
francis		Hey Taylor, you okay man?
chris		Yeah.  How 'bout you?
francis		Jes' fine man, jes fine!  Ain't never felt better! Both of us two timers man, we're out. 
medic		 That's your ride man, you ready?
chris		 You bet.
harris		You got Second Platoon Sergeant.
rhah		Baaaaaaaaa!!!!!!
****Dialogues from script :Pleasantville.txt****

college counselor		... For those of you going on to college next year, the chance of finding a good job will actually decrease by the time you graduate. Entry level jobs will drop from thirty-one to twenty-six percent, and the median income for those jobs will go down as well ...
health teacher		... The chance of contracting HIV from a promiscuous lifestyle will climb to one in one hundred and fifty. The odds of dying in an auto accident are only one in twenty-five hundred.  Now this marks a drastic increase ...
science teacher		... From just four years ago when ozone depletion was at ten percent of its current level. By the time you are twenty years old, average global temperature will have risen two and a half degrees. Even a shift of one degree can cause such catastrophic consequences as typhoons, floods, widespread drought and famine.
science teacher		 Okay. Who can tell me what famine is?
betty		How was your day?
george		Oh, swell. You know, Mr. Connel said that if things keep going the way they are, I might be seeing that promotion sooner than I thought.
betty		Oh darling that's wonderful!  I always knew you could do it.
david		 "It might be ..."
david's mom		No--you have custody the first weekend of every month and this is the first weekend ...  I don't care if yesterday was the thirtieth, this is still the first weekend.
george		 Hey. Where are those kids?
david		 "Right behind you father."
marysue		Mother ... Father ... Bud has a little surprise for you.
betty		What's that Bud?
bud		First prize at the science fair. There were lots of swell projects--guess mine was just the "swellest".
betty		Darling that's wonderful. Except there's no such word as "swellest".
bud		Well gee whizz, Mom. lt wasn't the "English" fair.
david		 What's a mother to do?
david		Hi. I mean ...  ... Hi.
david		Look. You probably don't think I should be asking you this. I mean--not knowing you well and all ...
david		 I mean I know you--everybody knows you ... I just don't know you ... technically.
david		Well--I was just wondering--'cause I see you all the time in Algebra and I heard you humming that Van Halen song and I really like that song too ...  Anyhow, I don't know what you're doing this weekend but my Mom's leaving town and she said I could use her car so ...
howard		Okay, whose window did Bud break when he was playing with his father's golf clubs?
david		Easy. Mr. Jenkins. What JOB did Mr. Jenkins have?
howard		Scout?
david		Marmalade.
howard		You're unbelievable. You'll win this thing for sure. When is it on?
david		Marathon starts at 6:30. Contest's tomorrow at noon.
howard		 A thousand dollars ... And it's on all night?
david		Of course it is Howard. That's why they call it a Marathon.
kimmy		Omigod, it's so mortifying, being related to him. I can't believe you're like--
jennifer		Only on my parent's side.
kimmy		I know, but you're like ... twins and stuff.  You must be from like, the cool side of the uterus.
christin		Don't do anything. Just don't like--do anything ...
jennifer		 Hi Mark.
mark		 Hey.
jennifer		 Hey.
mark's lackeys		 Hey.
jennifer's lackeys		 Hey.
mark		Saw you at the mall yesterday.
jennifer		Yeah ... Saw you too.
mark		Yeah. 
jennifer		My mom'll be out of town.
mark		So uh ... Maybe we could uh ...
jennifer		 Cool.
mark		 Cool.
various lackeys		Cool.
jennifer		It was amazing, Daph ... I'm like: "Well my Mom'll be out of town." And he's like "Well then, maybe we could-- you know ..." And I'm like "Yeah, sure." And he's like "Well, cool."  I know. Well I'm jealous of you too sometimes.
david		... He's not homeless Howard, they just don't say where he lives.  Because nobody's homeless in Pleasantville.
david		... because that's just not what it's like.
jennifer		 What are you doing?
david		What are you doing?
jennifer		David, cut it out. Mark Davis is gonna like be here in five minutes.
david		Well great. The Pleasantville Marathon starts at six thirty.
jennifer		Pleasantville Marathon?
david		 Yeah. Every episode ever.
jennifer		 Omigod, I don't be-lieeeeve this! He's gonna like beeeee here!
david		Weil great. You can watch TV upstairs.
jennifer		Upstairs! Up-staiiirs! There isn't any STEREO!
david		 Oh my God ...
jennifer		David, stop stressing, you can like-- turn it on normally ...
david		No you can't, Jen! It's a new TV. It doesn't work without a remote.
jennifer		Oh my God! He's here!
jennifer		 TV repair?
jennifer		 Yeah ...
david		Yeah ... Sort of ...
david		 You know, we didn't call any TV repair.
jennifer		You think you could do this like soon? It's almost six thirty.
david		 The Pleasantville Marathon starts at six thirty.
jennifer		That's not the reason. I've got a date at six thirty.
david		 ... Her father.
david		 ... Like Prince Charming.
jennifer		Um--hello? I've got like a social emergency here.
david		Yeah ...
david		McIntire's.
david		No. McIntire's. Remember:  "For the very best in men's attire, Head right down to McIntire's."
david		Ooomph?
jennifer		 We'll take it.
david		 How much does it cost?
jennifer		Free?
david		Hunh.
jennifer		Lemme see that.
david		No way.
jennifer		Do you mind. This is like the most important moment of my whole life.
david		Forget it Jen, I've waited a year for this.
jennifer		 God, David. Just give it to me!
david		 Get lost!
jennifer		YOU get lost!
david		 Oh my God.
jennifer		What happened?
david		I'm not sure.
george		 Hi Sport, hi Muffin ... Better get a move on, you're gonna be late for school.
jennifer		 What did you do?
david		I don't know.
jennifer		 Uchh! Look at me?! I'm like so ... pasty!
jennifer		What happened?
david		 What the hell's going on!
david		We're in Pleasantville?
jennifer		 This isn't funny! I happen to have a very important date in like five minutes!
mark davis		 ... Bitch.
jennifer		Noooooo!
david		You--you gotta get us out of here.
david		Because we don't belong!
david		My name's David.
jennifer		 Oh GOD ...
david		Look--we appreciate it. We really do. We just--we want to go home now.
david		Don't get upset.
david		Where are you going ...
david		WAIT A MINUTE!!
david		COME BACK!!!
jennifer		What's going to happen?
david		I don't know ... It's not possible ...  Is it possible?
david		It can't be possible.
betty		Well, come on kids. You're not going off to school without a hot breakfast inside you ...
jennifer		 Thanks.
george		 Morning kids. Better get a move on or you're going to be late for school.
david		 I don't believe this.
jennifer		Neither do I.
george		Well, c'mon. Dig in.
betty		 I put blueberries in them just the way you like.
jennifer		Actually--I'm not real ... hungry.
betty		 Oh nonsense young lady. You're going to start your day with a nice big breakfast.
pat boone		"... Tooty fruity--oh rooty. Tooty Fruity ... Oh rooty."
jennifer		I'm gonna hurl, David. I swear to God.
david		Just take deep breaths.
jennifer		All that animal fat. I feel it in my pores or something.
david		We're supposed to be in school.
jennifer		We're supposed to be at home David! We're supposed to be in color!  Oh God ...
david		Hello Mr. Simpson.
david		Oh yeah. A Buick. It's swell.
jennifer		You know him?
david		Owns the hardware store.
jennifer		Okay, now you listen to me! I don't know what's going on but you'd better fix it! I had a date with Mark Davis and I even bought new UNDERWEAR!
david		We just gotta play along for a little while ... till that guy shows up again. Then I'll talk to him and ...
jennifer		Play along?
david		Well, yeah. I'm ... Bud Parker and you're ... um--Mary Sue.
jennifer		 No! I'm not gonna do it! If I don't dress like this for Mom I'm sure as hell not going to do it for you!
david		We don't have a choice Jen. We're stuck until he comes back.
jennifer		Why can't we just EXPLAIN IT?
david		To who?
fireman		C'mere, kitty ...
jennifer		Oh God, we are. We're stuck in like "Nerdville".  ... But it's just not fair. I mean--I'm starting to get really--popular. Debbi Russell transferred to another school and my skin's been great since March and Mark Davis is starting to come around and ...
jennifer		Um ... It's ...
biff		Ah, right ...  Well--guess I'll see ya later Mary Sue.
jennifer		Who's that?
david		Biff Martin. Captain of the basketball team.
jennifer		 Does he--you know--like "me"?
david		As a matter of fact he does.
jennifer		 Hunh.
jennifer		Those are my friends.
david		Peggy Jane, Lisa Anne and Betty Jean.
jennifer		 Can we do any better?
david		I don't think so.
lisa anne		 Mary Sue. You're gonna be late for Geography.
jennifer		Okay ...
miss peters		Last week Class, we discussed the geography of Main Street. This week, we're going to be talking about Elm Street. Can anyone tell me one of the differences between Elm Street and Main Street?  Tommy.
tommy		It's not as long?
miss peters		That's right, Tommy. It's not as long. Also, it only has houses. So the geography of Main Street is different than the geography of Elm Street.
miss peters		Mary Sue.
jennifer		What's outside of Pleasantville?
miss peters		What?  I don't understand ...
jennifer		Outside of Pleasantville ... What's at the end of Main Street?
miss peters		Oh, Mary Sue. You should know the answer to that. The end of Main Street is just the beginning again.
david		Wow.
coach		That's it men. Keep it up. Big game tomorrow.
biff		 Hi ya Bud.
bud		Hi ya Biff.
biff		Can I ask you a question?
bud		Sure.
biff		Well ... If I was to ask your sister ... What I mean is, if I was to go up to Mary Sue ...
david		Oh God! Are we in that episode?
biff		What?
david		I don't believe it.
biff		What's the matter?
david		You want to ask her out tonight, right? And then you want to give her your school pin ...
biff		Yeah ... How'd you know?
david		 Look, Biff ... I don't think it's a real good time for that right now ...
biff		 She won't go out with me?
david		I didn't say that. It's just that right now ...
biff		I don't know what I'd do if she wouldn't go out with me ...
david		 Look, I'm sure we'll work something out. I'll talk to her or something.
jennifer		No way.
david		One date, Jen--that's all I'm asking. If you don't go out with this guy we could throw their whole universe out of whack.
jennifer		It's too weird David. This place is giving me the creeps. Did you know all the books are blank?
david		What?
jennifer		I looked in the library. They got covers with nothing inside them.
david		What were you doing in a library?
jennifer		I got lost.  Oh here ... look at this!
david		JENNIFER!
jennifer		Just watch. You know why those guys just get cats out of trees? 'Cause nothing burns around here, that's why! They don't need any firemen ...
david		Jen, listen ...
jennifer		 I like--really need a cigarette, too.
david		 I'll get us out of here. I really will. But if we don't play along we could alter their whole existence. We may never get home.
jennifer		You really think anybody's gonna, like, notice if I don't have a chocolate malt with this guy.
peggy jane		 You won't believe what we just heard.
lisa anne		Biff Martin's going to ask you out.
betty jean		And that's not all ...
peggy jane		No, that's not all ...
jennifer		You sure I'm supposed to wear this?
jennifer		 I could like kill a guy with these things.
david		It's in your closet.
jennifer		 I've worn some kinky stuff before ...
david		He won't notice anyway.
jennifer		What do you mean?
david		They don't notice that kind of thing.
jennifer		So what's the point?
david		Jen please ...
jennifer		He-llo? I've got like three pounds of underwire here ...
david		Just go with the program--hunh? I'm late for work.
david		Sorry ... I had to help my folks and then I couldn't find my hat ...
david		What's wrong?
david		 Yeah ...
david		I'm sorry.
david		I understand.
biff		Oh. Mary Sue ...
david		 Peppermint shake, chocolate soda, two orders of fries and a split?
david		 What?
david		Listen to me!
david		Have you cooked the burgers?
david		Well you can just put on the lettuce, finish the burger and pretend it was me doing it all along.
biff		 I sure am glad you said you'd come out with me tonight Mary Sue.
jennifer		 Well "gee whizz" Biff. I sure am glad you asked me.
biff		I don't know if I ever said this to you before, but, well ... I think you're just about the keenest girl in the whole school ...
jennifer		Really Biff? The keenest?
biff		Oh yeah.
jennifer		 Gosh. I hardly know what to say.
biff		Oh, I dunno Bud. Guess I'll have my usual cheeseburger and a cherry coke.
jennifer		Oh, I dunno Bud. Guess I'll just have a salad and an Evian Water.
biff		See the whole time we were in civics together, I really wanted to sit next to you--but you were always sitting between Peggy Jane and Lisa Anne.
jennifer		Well, sometimes talking's over-rated. Don't you think?
biff		Hunh?  Oh, right ...
jennifer		Oh, gosh no.
biff		I mean, there's kids that are even holding hands already but I figure there's plenty of time for that kind of thing later on. Don't you?
jennifer		Oh you bet.  Will you excuse me for a sec?
jennifer		Jesus Chirist ...
girl's voices		 "Did he give it to you ... Did he give it to you ... I bet he gave it to her ... Did he give it to you?"
jennifer		 I don't think he knows how.
lisa anne		I bet he's gonna take her to Lover's Lane.
peggy jane		I bet he is. I bet he is.
betty jean		I bet he's even gonna hold her hand!
david		 If you need anything, I'll be right over there.
jennifer		 Gee whiz "Bud", what could we possibly need when we have each other?
biff		 Anyhow ... I really wanted to come over and sit next to you in civics but ...
jennifer		You want to get out of here?
biff		What?
jennifer		You wanna get out of here? You wanna leave?
biff		 But where would we go?
jennifer		 ... Lover's Lane.
biff		 Lover's Lane!
jennifer		Yeah. Lover's Lane. You up for it?
jennifer		C'mon. Let's go.
david		NOOOOOO!
david		YOU CAN'T DO THIS JENNIFER! HE DOESN'T EXIST! YOU CAN'T DO THIS TO SOMEONE WHO DOESN'T EXIST!
biff		Sure is pretty.
jennifer		 Oh yeah ... Gorgeous.
biff		To be honest Mary Sue. I didn't think you'd want to come here until we'd been pinned for a little while.
jennifer		Oh, Biff. You can "pin" me any time you want to.
biff		Oh, that's silly Mary Sue. How could you possibly pin me?
betty		Bud?
george		Son, what's wrong?
david		Have you seen Mary Sue?
betty		Why no. She's still on her date with Biff ... is something the matter?
david		 No, I ... I was just ... worried about her.
george		 That's IF she can learn to bake.
betty		Oh, George ...
george		But your sister is a fine young woman and she would never do anything for us to be concerned about.
biff		 I think I better go home now Mary Sue ...
jennifer		 ... Why?
biff		 I think ... I might be ill ...
jennifer		It's s'posed to happen, Biff.
biff		It is?
jennifer		Trust me ...
david		 Oh no ... I'm fine.
betty		How 'bout some Marshmallow Rice Squares?
david		I'm fine.
betty		Now who could that be.
david		Oh hi!
david		Oh, yeah. Sorry. I'm fine. I just ... Had to get home early.
david		Yeah ...
david		Yeah ...
betty		Hello Bill.
david		 Well, look, thanks for coming by. I ... really appreciate it.
jennifer		Well gee thanks Biff. I had a really wonderful time.
biff		... Me too.
jennifer		 Hello Mr. Johnson.
david		 What did you do to him?
jennifer		 Nothing.
david		What do you mean "nothing?" That's not nothing. That's ...
jennifer		Relax "Bud." We had a really nice time.  ... Now I'm really tired and we gotta get up early for school in the morning so ...
david		 Oh no ...
coach		Come on men. Let's go. Big game next week.
david		Oh my God ...
david		You can't do this, Jennifer. I WARNED you.
jennifer		So what's the big deal. Oh. Okay. They're like not good at basketball anymore. Like--omigod, what a tragedy.
david		You don't understand. You're messing with their UNIVERSE.
jennifer		Well maybe it needs to be messed with. Did that ever like--occur to you?  You know, they don't want to be like this, it's just that nobody ever helped them before.
peggy jane		 "MS". How you doin'?
jennifer		Kewl "PJ". How you doin'?
peggy jane		 "Kewl."
david		You have no right to do this.
jennifer		Well if I don't who will?
david		They're happy like this.
jennifer		David, nobody's happy in a Poodle skirt and a sweater set.  You like all this don't you?
david		I just don't think we have the right to ...
jennifer		David, let me tell you something. These people don't want to be geeks. They want to be "attractive." They've got a lot of potential, they just don't know any better.
david		They don't have that kind of potential.
jennifer		Um--hello? You want to like take a look?
boy		Wow. What kind of gum is that?
jennifer		I gotta go. I'm meeting Biff at the flagpole.
david		What'll it be?
biff		 Gee whizz, Bud. Guess I'll just have the usual. Cheeseburger and a cherry coke.
jennifer		Me too. Sounds swell.
david		 Really? It seems so fattening.
david		 Look. I thought we talked about this, I thought we said ...
david		C'mere.
david		What did you say?
david		What are you talking about! You make hamburgers! That is the point!
david		Just listen to me ...
david		Forget about that!
david		Look, you can't always like what you do. Sometimes you just do it because it's your job. And even if you don't like it, you just gotta do it anyway.
david		 So they can have their hamburgers!
david		 ... What's that?
david		 Wow ... That's pretty good ...
david		I think you should try not to think about this anymore.
david		Yeah.
gus		Have they ever lost before?
george		Basketball? No they sure haven't.
bob		Just feels "wrong", that's all.
third patron		Maybe that's where they get that saying, "can't win 'em all."
gus		Yeah. That's a good point, Ralph. They do have that saying.
bob		But they do win 'em all, Gus. They've always won 'em all.
gus		Well, yeah. That's true too.
marge		 ... He said it would clear up on its own if she just stayed away from fried foods and sweets ...
betty		Well that makes sense.
marge		Except it's spread to her lips now too. Oh, I don't know.
mary		 And you say it's just "red?"
marge		Well--like red, only ... "redder."
mary		Hunh. I know what you mean. That's like the front of Bill Johnson's shop. I was going by it the other day and it looked green only "greener."
marge		 Have you seen him lately? The man doesn't look like himself. I was getting my sewing machine fixed across the street and he was sitting in the window of his shop just staring. Wasn't looking at anything in particular--just staring off into space.
mary		That is strange.
marge		Betty, it's your bid.
betty		Uh ... Seven hearts.
betty		Mary Sue?
jennifer		Yeah?
betty		Can I ask you a question?
jennifer		Sure.
betty		What goes on up at Lover's Lane?
jennifer		 What do you mean?
betty		Well, you hear all these things lately. You know--kids spending so much time up there ...  Is it holding hands? That kind of thing?
jennifer		Yeah ...  That--and ...
betty		What?
jennifer		It doesn't matter.
betty		No. I want to know.
jennifer		 ... Sex.
betty		Ah.
jennifer		You sure you want to know this?
betty		Yes.
jennifer		Okay.
jennifer		You okay?
betty		Yes ...  It's just that ...
jennifer		 What?
betty		Well ...  ... Your father would never do anything like that.
jennifer		 Well, Mom ... there's ways to "enjoy" yourself without Dad.
george		Sweetie? You coming to bed?
betty		 Yeah ... I'm just going to take a bath first.
david		Oh my God!
david		Jesus Christ ...
david		FIRE! FIRE!
david		 FIRE ... FIRE ...
david		Right here!
fire chief		Where is it?
david		Here! Grab this nozzle.
fireman		But where's the ...
david		Just grab it!
fireman		Whoa!  So that's what these do.
bob		... And with great appreciation from the citizens of Pleasantville ...
bob		I am pleased to present You with this special commendation, from the Pleasantville Chamber of Commerce!
girl's voice		Hi Bud ...
margaret		That was sure swell ...
david		Oh. Thanks, Margaret.
margaret		 I baked you my oatmeal cookies.
david		 Oh, no ... You baked those for Whitey.
margaret		No. I baked them for you.
david		No. You baked them for Whitey.
margaret		 No. I baked them for you.
david		Um ... thanks.
margaret		See ya.
jennifer		 I had nothing to do with that fire.
david		 It's okay.
jennifer		Not directly anyhow ...
david		It's fine.
jennifer		 Um ... They like wanna ask you a question ... I didn't know how to handle it. So ...
david		Sure.
various kids		Swell ...
boy		How'd you know about the fire?
david		What?
boy		How'd you know how to put it out and all?
david		Well--where I used to live ... That's just what firemen did.
boy		And where's that?
david		 Um ... Outside of Pleasantville.
boy		What's outside of Pleasantville?
david		Look it doesn't matter. It's not important.
boy		What is it?
david		It's really not important.
david		 Well ... There are some places where the road doesn't go in a circle. There are some places where it keeps on going.
margaret		 Keeps going ...
david		Well--it all just keeps going. Roads ... rivers ...
david		... What?
boy		 "It was big 'n brown 'n kept goin' an' goin' as far you could see."
david		 I thought the books were blank?
jennifer		They were.
david		The pages filled in?
jennifer		But like only up to the part about the raft, because I didn't read any farther.
david		 Well, yeah ... I do.
margaret		 So how does it end?
david		Well--see ... they're both running away--Huck and the slave ... And ... They go up the river ... But--in trying to get free they sort of see that they're free already.
david		Hunh?  See--Holden Caulfield is like this really lonely kid...
gus		I don't know Phil. It's pretty strange.
phil		I'll say it's strange. Gettin' stranger.
burt		Oughtta be havin' an ice cream soda. That's where they oughtta be.
george		Want some bridge mix?
bob		Oh, no thanks ...
george		Betty's making some pineapple kabobs ...
bob		I'm fine--but thank you.
george		"Changes."
bob		 Did you hear about Bill Miller?
george		 No. What?
bob		Wife wants him to get one of those new beds.
george		One of those ... big beds?
bob		I really don't know.  Ben Miller's son just quit his job as a boxboy at the market.
george		... How?
big bob		Said he didn't want to do it anymore. Just took off his apron in the middle of an order. Mrs. Thompson had her groceries spread all over the counter ... Took 'em four hours to sort the whole thing out.
george		Holy cow.
big bob		George, everyone likes you.
george		Oh well ...
bob		No. They do. And it isn't just 'cause you're a great bowler ... They respect you ...
george		 Thank you very much.
bob		And it's important for them to see someone they respect, stand up for what's right. If you love a place, you can't sit around and watch this kind of thing happen to it.
george		No. Of course not.
bob		 And that's why I want you to be on the Pleasantville Chamber of Commerce.
george		 Oh my Gosh. I hardly know what to say.
bob		 Why don't you start by saying "yes," and then getting me one of those swell pineapple kabobs.
george		Oh sure ... You bet.  Betty ...
david		I'll get her.
david		 Are you okay?
betty		 What am I going to do?
david		It's okay. It's alright.
betty		 I can't go out there. How can I go out there?
david		Have you got any make up?
betty		In my handbag.
david		Okay--first we'll dry you out a little.
betty		 What?
david		Looks just like it did.
betty		And they won't be able to tell?
david		 No ... They won't be able to tell.
betty		 What?
david		It's fine.
betty		Thank you.
david		 Sure.
david		 Hi.
david		 I brought you something ... From the library.
david		It's an art book.
david		Open it.
david		What's wrong?
david		Oh, well--you're just starting out. I mean, you can't do it ...
david		Hi.
margaret		 Oh ... Hi.
david		 Look, I probably shouldn't be asking you this--not knowing you that well and all ...
margaret		 Sure ... Where would we go?
david		 ... Lover's Lane?
david		 Sorry ...
david		"Oh when the Saints ... Go Marching in ..."
david		 ... Hi.
david		 I can't.
david		Talk about it. Right now, I mean. I got to ... um ...
david		Oh ... I do. Yeah. It's just that I told my "dad" I'd clean out the rain gutters and Mr. Johnson wanted me to ... to change the tape in the register ...
david		Re-runs?
david		Oh, I know they're not. But I mean-- they're just "cookies" after all ...
david		Well they're not just cookies. I mean, they're great cookies ... Look, I'd love to get into this whole thing but I'm really running late. Why don't we hook up tomorrow?
david		Terrific. I'll talk to you then.
jennifer		What's wrong?
david		Nothing.
jennifer		Nothing?
david		Listen ...
jennifer		 Yeah. Can't believe you started such a dorky fad.
david		 ... Yeah.
jennifer		Seemed kinda sexy. Look. I read 35 pages.
david		 That's great.
jennifer		So what is it?
david		Well ... I just ...  Can I ask you a question?
jennifer		Sure.
david		Remember when you told me that Lisa Rosenberg liked me?
jennifer		Yeah ...
david		Well--did she really like me or were you just making that up.
jennifer		No. She really liked you.
david		You weren't playing a joke? She woulda gone out with me?
jennifer		Gone out with you. She woulda like rearranged your tonsils.
david		Wow.
jennifer		Can I ask you a question?
david		Yes.
jennifer		How come I'm still in black and white?
david		 What?
jennifer		Well I've had like ten times as much sex as these girls and I'm still like this. They have one hour in the back of a car and suddenly they're in technicolor.
david		Oh, I don't know. Maybe ...  ... it's not just the sex ...
jennifer		 What?
margaret		Um ... You gotta turn off Main Street.
david		Oh ... Right.
david		Wow.
david		What's that smell?
margaret		Aren't these great?
betty		 I'm sorry ...
betty		I just thought ... It's beautiful.
betty		I think it looks nice.
betty		Oh my ...
betty		 Where'd you get this?
betty		Bud?
betty		 She's crying.
betty		She's crying.
betty		Yes she is.
betty		I've got to go ...
betty		 No ...
jennifer		 Hunh.
biff		Mary Sue--C'mon ...
jennifer		 What are you doing?
biff		 It's six-thirty ...
jennifer		So.
biff		We were gonna ... You know ...
jennifer		Oh.  I can't.
biff		Why not?
jennifer		I'm busy.
biff		 With what?
jennifer		 I'm studying.
david		 Mmmmgh.
margaret		Do they have those ... Where you come from?
david		Yeah ... I guess.  I don't know.
margaret		You don't know?
david		What?
margaret		 Out there.
david		Oh. don't know ... It's different.
margaret		How?
david		Well it's louder ... And scarier I guess ... And ... and a lot more dangerous ...
margaret		Sounds fantastic. You know some kids came up here the other night to go swimming--took off all their clothes.
david		Yeah.
margaret		What's that like?
david		Well it's big. And it's blue ...  ... It's really really blue.
margaret		Mmmm.  Boy. It's hot up here.
david		Hunh?
margaret		I picked them myself. They grow wild up here.  Mmm. So sweet.
david		 They just grow like that?
margaret		 Oh yeah. There's a lot of stuff. Currants and strawberries ... Here. I'll show you.
margaret		Go on. Try it.
george		Honey--I'm home.
betty		 What is that?
margaret		What is that?
margaret		What's going on?
david		Rain.
margaret		Real rain?
david		Yeah ... You don't have rain either?
margaret		What do we do?
david		 We'll just put up the top.
margaret		What top?
david		It's fine. Come on.
jennifer		Cool ...
george		 Honey, I'm home ...
george		Where's my dinner ...
george		 Where's my DINNER ...
george		Where's my DINNER!
george		 WHERE'S MY DINNER ...
george		... WHERE'S MY DINNER! WHERE'S MY DINNER!
george		 Where's my dinner?
bob		What happened?
bob		Are you alright?  What is it?
george		 Rain.
bob		 Real rain?
george		 Well, I ... I came home like I always do, And I came in the front door. And I took off my coat. And I put down my briefcase and I said "Honey. I'm home."
george		... Only no one was there.
bob		 ... It's gonna be fine George.
gus		What do we do Bob?
bob		Well--we'll be safe for now--thank goodness we're in a bowling alley-- but if George here doesn't get his dinner, any one of us could be next. It could be you Gus, or you Burt, or even you Phil ...
phil		Couple of hours.
bob		Gus, why don't you get a bunch of kids from the basketball team to help you put them up on lamposts and tree trunks ...
betty		But I really should get home.
betty		Sounds nice ... Once you get used to it.
betty		Like a drum.
margaret		 Oh my God ...
jennifer		 Oh my God ...
bob		 Oh my GOD!
betty		I told you where I was.
george		All night?
betty		I got caught in the storm. You were gone all night too.
george		 I was in a bowling-alley.
betty		I told you, George. I'm not going.
george		 Sure you are.
betty		No I'm not.
george		It's fine. You'll put on some make up and ...
betty		I don't want to put on some make up ...
george		 It goes away ... It'll go away.
betty		 I don't want it to go away.
george		 You're gonna come to this meeting and you're gonna put on this make up, and you're gonna come home at six o'clock every night and have dinner ready on this table.
betty		 No I'm not sweetie.
george		Where are you gonna go?
betty		I'm gonna go now.
george		Betty, don't go out there like that! They'll see you!  They'll SEE you!
bob		This was found over in Dave Murphy's trash can. There were four of them like this ...
bob		Jane Davidson found these in her son's laundry basket.
david		 I got you something.
margaret		It's beautiful. Where'd you get it?
david		It was a prop for the school play ...
margaret		Can I open it?
david		Sure ...
driver		Hello Bud ...
david		 Hello Whitey.
whitey		 Hello Margaret.
margaret		Hello Whitey ...
whitey		 Hey Bud, how come you're not at the town meeting right now?
david		 How come you're not?
whitey		Oh. We're s'posed to go out and let everybody know about it. See.
david		Why don't you guys just get the hell out of here.
whitey		Oh, okay, Bud. We'll do that.
david		It's fine ... It doesn't mean anything.
woman		Ed McFadden's got a blue front door.
ed mcfadden		It's always been blue!
woman		Not that blue!
man		There's a big tree turning orange in Joe Baker's front yard!
bob		People, people ... I think we all know what's going on here.
bob		Obviously certain "changes" have been happening. Up until now, things in Pleasantville have always been-- well ... "Pleasant." And, recently, certain things have become ... "Un-Pleasant." Now it seems to me the first thing we have to do is to separate out the things that are pleasant, from the things that are "Un-Pleasant."
david		 Oh--well ...
david		 What do you mean?
david		Look--it just sort of "happened" ...
david		I had nothing to do with that.
david		Look ...
david		 ... Only if they mean it.
david		 I didn't do anything wrong.
david		Why?
david		No you're not.
david		 I'm sorry ... I can't let you do that.
david		 I'm going to leave now.
david		 Come on!
david		Get out of here!
david		Are you alright?
david		 Come on.
david		Oh my God.
betty		 No. Let's get out of here.
david		We should be okay up here.
david		 We better go.
margaret		Where are they?
david		I'm not sure.
david		Oh my God.
jennifer		Don't! Just let go.
biff		It's better, Mary Sue.
jennifer		I said, NO!  ... I've read like one book in my whole life and I'll be damned if I let you throw it on that fire ...
david		 It's okay. It's me.
david		Let's go inside.
david		Hello?
david		Well he's right. Come on. Let's turn these booths back up. "Mary Sue", why don't you help me slide this in front of the door. We'll be okay in here.
bob		This is not the answer people.
bob		 "ONE: All public disruption and acts of vandalism are to cease immediately."
bob		"TWO: All citizens of Pleasantville are to treat one another in a courteous and "pleasant" manner ..."
lisa anne		"Courteous and Pleasant manner." That doesn't sound too bad.
david		 "THREE: The area commonly known as Lover's Lane as well as the Pleasantville Public Library shall be closed until further notice."
various kids		 "Oh my gosh ... No ..."
david		"FIVE: There shall be no public sale of umbrellas or preparation for inclement weather of any kind."
boy		Hey. This thing works.
buddy holly		Well all the things that you say and do Make me want to be with you-oo-oo ...
lisa anne		 Turn that off!
david		Sure you are.
buddy holly		The little things that you say and do Make we want to be with you-oo-oo ... RAVE ON! It's a crazy feeling ... RAVE ON! It's got me reelin' ...
david		 Stick together till you get off Main Street.
david		It's okay. We'll get you a new one.
david		Maybe I have an idea.
bob		 Did you do this?
david		 Yes I did.
bob		Do you know that it's illegal?
david		 Yes I do.
bob		BUD--WHY DID YOU DO THIS?
david		Because anybody should be able to paint in whatever color they want.
bob		You're not allowed to do this! I could arrest you for this.
david		Still doesn't make it right.
bob		Dan! Arrest them!
bob		What do you mean!?
dan		Well, I never had to do it before.
bob		You put handcuffs on them and you take them to the police station.
dan		 Oh. guess I could do that, then.
david		 C'mere, Dan. I'll help you.
dan		There's someone to see you Bud.
david		I thought it might be you.
david		I am actually ... Glad to see you've finally shown your true colors.
david		Why?
david		 Why don't you just take me back without it?
david		So ... I guess as long as I'm here, all sorts of things could happen to this place. We could have pink lawns and blue trees ...
david		I'm sorry. I can't do that.
david		They weren't my memories.  I borrowed them. It's no good when you borrow them.
david		 I don't know ... Three, four weeks.
david		I'm going on trial tomorrow?
david		 There's worse places.
bob		Bud Parker and William Johnson, you have been charged with desecration of a public building and the intentional use of prohibited paint colors in violation of the Pleasantville Code of Conduct and laws of common decency. Do you admit that on the night of May 1, you did consciously and willfully apply the following FORBIDDEN colors to the Pleasantville Town Hall:  Red, Pink, Vermillion, Puce, Chartreuse, Umber, Blue, Aqua, Ox Blood, Green, Peach, Crimson, Yellow, Olive and Magenta.
david		Um ... Yes I do. Where's our lawyer?
bob		We prefer to keep these proceedings as "pleasant" as possible. I don't think a lawyer will be necessary.
david		Well--it was dark out ...
bob		Good. Do you further admit that this unnatural depiction occurred in full public view where it was accessible to, and in plain sight of, minor children?
david		It was accessible to everyone.
bob		Very well. Let the record show that the defendants have answered in the affirmative to all the charges.
david		I think I've got something to say.
bob		Very well ...
david		I think I know why you're doing this. I mean, I understand why you're doing this. I used to feel the same way. I used to want this place to stay just the way it was. I never wanted it to change ...
bob		 The basketball team?
david		Sure. Everybody's upset because they're not winning anymore--but just think how it would feel if all of a sudden they do win.
bob		Okay--that's enough!
david		I thought I was allowed to defend myself.
bob		You're not allowed to lie.
david		I'm not lying ... Here I'll show you.
david		What color is that hedge of yours?
david		No, not that hedge. The other one.
david		The one in your mind. The one that you see on a bright cold morning. The one that you see when you walk in front of your house and you just stand there and stare.
bob		I said, that's enough!
david		Alright. Dad ...
george		 Yes Bud.
david		 Don't you miss her?
david		I mean, of course you do, but it isn't just the cooking or the cleaning that you miss--it's something else, isn't it ...
big bob		 Okay, that's IT!!!
david		 Now don't you think she looks just as pretty in color? Don't you think she looks just as pretty as she did the day you met her?
bob		 YOU'RE OUT OF ORDER!
david		Why am I out of order?
bob		BECAUSE I WILL NOT ALLOW YOU TO TURN THIS COURTROOM INTO A CIRCUS!
david		Well I don't think it's a circus. And I don't think they do either.
bob		THIS BEHAVIOR WILL STOP AT ONCE.
david		But see that's just the point. It can't stop at once. Because it's in you. And you can't stop something that's in you.
bob		 It's not in ME.
david		Oh sure it is.
bob		No it isn't.
david		 What do you want to do to me right now?
big bob		That's not going to happen!
david		But it could happen.
big bob		No it couldn't!
jennifer		Uch ... I am like gonna hurl ...
david		Are you sure?
jennifer		I told you. I'm like positive.
david		This thing works. We could go home right now.
jennifer		I'm not ready yet. I gotta do this for a little while.
jennifer		Besides. You think there's like a chance I'm gonna get into college back there?
david		 Honestly ... no.
jennifer		Right here.
david		And you're sure about this?
jennifer		I've done the slut thing, David. It's really kinda old.
david		I'll come back and check on you in a month.
jennifer		You're like the coolest brother in the world.
margaret		You're gonna forget about me.
david		No I won't. I swear.
margaret		 I like calling you David.
david		I like it too.
david		You're gonna keep painting aren't you?
david		It's beautiful.
betty		 I made you these for the trip. They're marshmallow rice squares.
david		Thanks. I thought you weren't gonna ...
betty		 I had to say goodbye.
david		I won't.
betty		 And ... wear this on the trip in case it gets cold.
david		 ... It's a pretty short trip.
betty		I'm so proud of you, Bud.
david		Thanks ... I love you.
betty		I love you too.
david		You better stand back a little.
****Dialogues from script :Point_Break.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Pokemon__Mewtwo_Returns.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Postman.txt****

man's footprints		 These tracks may already be days old as they fill with rain water. Then, the sound of light, padded FOOTFALLS. A LION ENTERS FRAME. Lean, hungry and dangerous, the big cat has been tracking this man. He lets out a low, disappointed GROWL. The rain has foiled his dinner plans -- for now.
the postman		I don't know. And if you ask me again, I'm going to slug you.
the postman		It's been fun, hasn't it, kids?  You're welcome!
the postman		Damnit, Bill, you know I need to check it first!
the postman		Better than turpentine.  Tastes about the same. Your call, Bill.
the postman		You ain't picky, Bill. I like that about you.
the postman		'Running on Empty'? Tell me about it.
the postman		Hey, Bill! We got TV! 147 channels. Everything from Jesus to 'Jeopardy'.
the postman		'Like sands through the hour- glass, so are the days of our lives...'  I'll take Domestic Nuclear Disasters for two hundred thousand, Alex...
the postman		We interrupt our regularly scheduled program to bring you the Second Civil War... Well, shit.
the postman		I don't want any trouble... I bet you don't either... Let's just call it a draw, okay?
the postman		Look out, Bill!
the postman		I'm rich.
the postman		I'm just passing through. I don't mean anyone any harm.  Water's good.
the postman		I'm not a Holnist.
the postman		Okay?
the postman		I'm headed for a town called St. Rose. Somewhere west of Portland.
lead bandit		Portland's under twenty feet of water.
the postman		Well, I heard different.
lead bandit		You mouthin' me?
the postman		No, it's just that it's hard to get good information.
hulking bandit		He is mouthin' you; I say we kill him.
lead bandit		Don't be in such a rush, Martin.  Now I see a pack mule over there, but I don't see no packs.
the postman		This is all I got.
lead bandit		Oh... Kill him, Martin.
the postman		 Okay!   My stuff's up there!
lead bandit		Shut up.  What do you got in there?
the postman		Dried peas.   Beef jerky. Cigarettes.
the postman		Sure.   There's the ladder.
lead bandit		You go up and get it.
the postman		It's going to take a second.    I got my stuff bolted in.
lead bandit		Put some buckshot through it, Martin. Just to hurry him up.
hulking bandit		I only got three shells left.
lead bandit		So use his gun.
ladder		 The Hulking Bandit has only a few more rungs to go.
ladder		 The Hulking Bandit has reached the opening -- feels the rocking motion. Hangs on.                                              8  76 BALL  Knife in hand, the Hulking Bandit looks inside. At that instant, The Postman rocks the pole one more time. The rusty bolt is not enough to keep the ball's full weight in place. It pops. The ball is frozen for an instant before going with the pole's tilt.
ladder		 The 76 ball drops off the pole, rolling over the Hulking Bandit's back and down the ladder's incline. The other Bandits dive clear as the 76 ball hurtles past.
the postman		 whips head over heels as the ball speeds away.
the postman		Bill!
the postman		It's true, we haven't done this in a while, but it's like riding a bicycle. Now, open your mouth.
the postman		I know the rule. It's my rule! Avoid civilization at all costs. But we gotta eat, don't we?  What are you so worried about, Bill? All you gotta do is stand there. I'm the one with all the lines.
the postman		They said, 'Fear not, MacBeth, 'til Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane'!
the postman		I said, Birnam Wood comes to Dunsinane!
the postman		Arm, arm yourselves! If the witch's words are true, there'll be no running or hiding here!
the postman		Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and the day after that. Out brief candle! Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player that struts his hour upon the stage and is heard no more. It's a tale told by a moron. Full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.  But blow, wind! Come wrack! At least we'll die with the harness off our back!
the postman		 They still haven't.
the postman		Thanks.   You're very nice.
curmudgeon larry		I'm clapping because you stink.
the postman		I don't think you understand how it works.
curmudgeon larry		When I was young, I tried to be an actor. I was awful. But now I won't die thinking I was the worst one.
the postman		I'm glad I could help.
the postman		Good enough to get something to eat?
sentry		Holnists!   Holnists are coming!
the postman		Well, I'd just as soon not give them anything of mine. Let's find the back door, Bill.
bethlehem		I said, what are you doing?
mayor		It's just a game, General Bethlehem. Something they saw in a play. No harm in it.
bethlehem		A play?  Show me. It's all right, children, show me.
brave boy		Arm, arm yourselves! No running from the witches!
bethlehem		 Shakespeare, is it? Well, I'm sorry I missed it.
mayor		You should know, sir, we haven't nearly stocked the game we thought we would.
bethlehem		Really?   But you had time for a play?
bethlehem		I'm taking three conscripts from each town. They will have the honor of serving in the Holnist Army until such time as I see fit.  Three men. You suppose you could do that?
idaho		All men between 15 and 50 and of suitable ethnic foundation are required to show themselves now.
bethlehem		Acceptable.
idaho		Sir?
bethlehem		Acceptable, Captain!
bethlehem		You'll need to put some meat on, but I like an impressionable mind. Acceptable.
bethlehem		Mongoloid.   Unacceptable.
bethlehem		I want pure blood. Someone like...
bethlehem		That man.
the postman		You don't understand...
idaho		You were required to show yourself.
the postman		But, I'm not with these people. I'm just passing through. I --
the postman		 Hi?
the postman		Kind of.
the postman		So what did you guys do with my cigarettes?
the postman		Wonderful.   What happened to your partners?
bethlehem		Welcome, gentlemen, to your new life. You have been born again as soldiers in the army of the United Clans of Holn. The strong have been sapped by the whimpering propaganda of the weak. Men, strong men, have been denied their destiny. You men have been saved from that fate. Redemption is within your grasp.
bethlehem		You. What did you do before you were given this opportunity?
gangly recruit		I had a shovel. I digged holes.
bethlehem		You digged holes... Well, now you're going to fill them.  And you?
the postman		Me?
bethlehem		Is there any question in anyone's mind that I was talking to you? Yes, you. You look like a dangerous man. Are you?
the postman		I'm just a performer. Shakespeare. Stuff like that.
bethlehem		Shakespeare?
the postman		He was a writer. He --
bethlehem		I know who Shakespeare was... 'Cry "Havoc!" and let slip the dogs of war.'
the postman		I, um, you want a line?
the postman		'To be or not to be: That is the question.'
bethlehem		'We few, we happy few, we band of brothers.'
the postman		 'Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of York.'
bethlehem		You're pretty good. You're also a fighter. I see it in your eyes.
bethlehem		Don't you agree? Come on, a man's got to speak his mind.
the postman		I don't mean any disrespect, sir, but you'd be better off just letting me go. A fighter is about the last thing I am.
bethlehem		Don't you think I should be the judge of that, soldier?
bethlehem		Get up.   I said, get up.
bethlehem		Put up your fists.
the postman		You'd win.
bethlehem		Now fight.
bethlehem		You're right. You're not a fighter. But you will be. I'm giving you a chance at a life that means something. A life worth living.
the postman		Thanks.   Did I win?
the postman		I tried to tell him...
woody		Say it again.
the postman		Say what?
woody		The words you said in town. About the wind blowing. And the rest... Say it again.
the postman		'Blow, wind. Come wrack. At least we'll die with the harness off our back.'
woody		What's it mean?
the postman		Live free or die.
idaho		All right, girls. We're gonna run. Twenty miles. With packs. You got three hours. Everybody makes it. Or nobody eats.
idaho		Eat up!    You got meat tonight.
idaho		Why don't you tell Shakespeare what kind of meat that is.
cook		Mule.
idaho		A godawful animal. The sterile offspring of a horse and a donkey. Can you imagine that?! There's no room in this new world for a bastard like that.
idaho		Uh uh.  Any man last in line ain't hungry enough. You show up last, you don't eat!
the postman		That's what they're hoping for.
the postman		These were supposed to be the best years of my life.
bethlehem		The laws of eight, gentlemen. That is the legacy handed down to us by Nathan Holn.
recruits		God rest his soul!
the postman		 May he burn in hell.
bethlehem		These are the laws that we live by. The eight is our symbol. Each man will bear it with pride.
bethlehem		Only then will you be part of the clan. Sit down, gentlemen.
bethlehem		Law One. You will obey orders without question.  I told you to sit.
slow recruit		 There weren't enough chairs.
bethlehem		I didn't specify chairs. You could've sat down on the ground.
bethlehem		You disobeyed a direct order.    You broke Law One.
bethlehem		Law Two.   Punishment shall be swift.
bethlehem		Law Three: Mercy is for the weak. Four: Terror will defeat reason. Five: Your allegiance is to the clan. Six: Justice can be dictated. Law Seven. Any clansman may challenge for leadership of the clan. Does any man here wish to challenge me?
bethlehem		On your feet!
bethlehem		Law Eight: There is only one penalty: Death.
slow recruit		Please, I'm begging you.
bethlehem		You will get out of this army what you put into it. Work and you'll be fed. Fight and you'll be respected. Die and you'll be remembered. It's up to you.
idaho		You thinking of challenging for leadership of the clan?
the postman		No, sir.   I'm a follower not a leader.
idaho		You see Colonel Getty? Always following the General? He's the only man who ever challenged. Fight lasted six seconds, but the General didn't kill him. He cut off his tongue and he cut off his balls and old Getty's been following him like a dog ever since.
idaho		The General don't see it, but I say you got some nigger in you.
idaho		The General would like a word with you, Shakespeare.
bethlehem		 They're yours. A solitary man, aren't you? Binoculars. To watch life from a distance. And Shakespeare. To read about it instead of living it.
the postman		No offense, General, but you seem to have read some Shakespeare yourself.
bethlehem		If he wishes to rise above mere thuggery, a military commandeer must be classically educated. Philosophy, history. Even a sense of the dramatic.  Do you know what I did before the war? Do you think I was in the army? I sold copying machines. I was a salesman. The talent to lead men and devise and execute a battle plan were locked away inside me.
bethlehem		If Nathan Holn hadn't come along, I'd still be selling copying machines. Can you imagine the wasted life? Can you imagine the magnitude of it? But war... War gives men like me a chance.
bethlehem		Here... 'The prize is often left unclaimed. Have the courage to grasp it. For fortune always favors the bold.'  We'll talk more in the weeks to come. Dismissed.
bethlehem		Issue the binoculars to a scout.
idaho		And the book, sir?
bethlehem		Burn it.
bethlehem		Quit moving.
the postman		Nothing.
the postman		No.
the postman		We got to get out of here.
the postman		Escaping.  You ever hear of St. Rose? It's on the coast. They say it's a paradise. They've even got electric lights.
the postman		Between the three of us, we could --
idaho		One of you dogs has earned himself a treat. Over there.
idaho		Those men hunted themselves a lion this morning. Must've been a zoo around here before the war. Anyhow, they shot him and he crawled into that thicket. A third man went in after him. We don't know if he's dead or alive. I need a volunteer. Someone's gotta go in and get our boy out.
idaho		I guess size ain't a measure of courage, is it? Shakespeare!
bethlehem		Come out alive and you got yourself a lion steak.
idaho		 Maybe you'll find your St. Rose up there.
idaho		What are you waiting for, Christmas?
the postman		I found him.
the postman		Yeah.
army		 Everyone stares across the river, straining to see as The Postman emerges with the corpse on his back.
idaho		 Hurry up! You still got a lion to bag!
bethlehem		In the water. Come back without him and you and another man will die in his place.
conscripts		Go!   Go!
the postman		Just let me go. I don't want to be part of your army.
the postman		Don't --
woody		They sent me to kill you.
the postman		Come with me.
idaho		Good, boy.   Get him.
woody		It's you or me.
the postman		I know.
idaho		Finish it.
woody		No harness on my back.
idaho		You want your St. Rose?
the postman		Hey.   How ya doin'?
the postman		'Jerry Ball, Pine View.'
the postman		So, arrest me.  Here's a piece of good news. Jerry's decided to go to school to get his contractor's license.
the postman		 Little Jimmy wants his grandpa to know he lost a tooth.
the postman		Thanks for being there for me.  Here's to you. I consider my taxes very well spent.
the postman		All dressed up. Nowhere to go.
the postman		Well, that's easy.
the postman		Greetings, Pine View, Oregon!
the postman		Civilian, I'm on official business. I demand entry into the town of Pine View.
the postman		I'm through talking to you, buddy boy! Now get somebody with authority to open this gate!
briscoe		I'm Sheriff Briscoe. Who the hell are you?
the postman		I'm a representative of the United States Government --
the postman		Authorized by order 417 of the restored Congress to reestablish a communication route to Idaho and lower Oregon. Now open that damn gate!
briscoe		What does that mean in English?
the postman		I'm your postman!
briscoe		 Hand me your gun.
the postman		Understand that tampering with or obstructing the mail is a federal offense. Furthermore, the Bolin Act requires you to provide all mail carriers with sanctuary and nourishment.  Now open that damn gate!
briscoe		You got three seconds to get your ass outta here.
the postman		Is Jerry the contractor here?
the postman		Wait! I'm going to get something out of my bag.
briscoe		One!
the postman		Paul Davis!   124 Vernon Street!
briscoe		Never heard of him. Two!
the postman		Lois Kent!   14 Weymoth Lane!
briscoe		Three!
the postman		Irene March!   478 River Road!
the postman		Oh, no...
the postman		 I have a letter for you.
the postman		I'm sure it's personal.
the postman		We're delivering the old stock piles, but I'll accept all new correspondence as well.
townie		Just read it, will ya?
the postman		'Dear Irene. Sorry I haven't written. Everything's so crazy. The strange weather. The food shortages. That farmer Nathan Holn causing all that trouble. It's hard to understand. David's home from the Army. The war was over before he even got there. Thank God for that. He's still my baby no matter how big he gets. We're going to miss you for Christmas, but maybe next year. All our love. Donna.'
the postman		No.   I'm just... a postman.
the postman		I've been on the road a while. I could use a little something to eat --
the postman		Yes, there is! If there are dogs in this town, you have to leash them while I'm here!
the postman		'Stop. Oh, yes, wait a minute, Mr. Postman. Waaa-ait, Mr. Postman...'
ford		 Cleaned and pressed, sir.
the postman		Thanks. Didn't somebody say something about dinner?
ford		Yeah, I'm supposed to take you to Foster's.  My name's Ford. Ford Lincoln Mercury.
ford		Used to be John Stevens, but I changed it on account of I want to drive cars.
ford		I live in that car. A 2003 Pontiac Sinatra. With a nine- banger and a Q-eight.
the postman		V-eight. Eight cylinders.   That means an eight-banger.
ford		 Were they fast?
ford		A buck seventy-five on a strip.
ford		A buck seventy-five? I thought maybe I could fix some of them up. It's nothing compared to what you do.
the postman		The important thing to remember about cars is, you can't eat 'em.
the postman		Yeah.
the postman		You know, I'm pretty hungry.
the postman		His name is, uh... Richard Starkey. From Maine. He has a saying. 'Things are getting better, getting better all the time.'
the postman		Parties are over with. The individual is what counts. You vote for the best man.
the postman		Lady Di's in charge. Sixty years old and she still kicks ass.
the postman		 He died. Skin cancer.
the postman		The government's just getting started. You're on your own for at least eighteen months.
ellen		Be quiet, everyone! Can't we just let this man eat?
the postman		Never thought I'd hear myself say this, but I can't eat anymore.
the postman		What?
the postman		 This?
the postman		Almost fits.
ellen		That's not a toy, honey. That's very important. Give it back.
abby		Would you like to dance?
the postman		I don't know if I can, I think I'm still on duty.
the postman		It's been a long time.
abby		All you got to do is hold on.
the postman		Is something wrong?
abby		How tall are you?
the postman		About six feet.
abby		Are you smart?
the postman		Smarter than some I guess.       Why?
abby		Just wondering. Did you ever have the bad mumps?
the postman		Never had the bad mumps.
abby		Have you ever had herpes or syphilis or anything like that?
abby		So as far as you know, you have good semen?
the postman		Is that a trick question?
abby		I don't mean to be nosy. I'm only asking because I want you to make me pregnant.
the postman		 It's got to be the uniform.
abby		This is my husband.    Michael.
abby		We've been trying to have a baby for three years. We can't on account of Michael had the bad mumps when he was twelve. So we need a body father. We could ask a man here, but it could cause trouble. I've seen it happen. Things go okay until the woman starts to show. Then it can be bad. But you'll only be around once in awhile with the mail.
abby		He hasn't said 'no'.
michael		 What do you say, mister?     You'd be doing us a favor.
the postman		I'll have to think about it.
the postman		Look, Mrs. March, you should know that...
the postman		Know that...
the postman		I got to get out of here.
the postman		 What is?
old man		What you're looking for.
ford		I knew you'd come here.
the postman		You did, huh?
ford		How do you get to be a postman, anyhow?
the postman		You have to be in the right place at the right time.
ford		How could I do it?
the postman		I thought you wanted to drive cars.
ford		Not anymore. That was kid's stuff. This is real. So, where's the right place?
the postman		Could be anywhere. Anytime. Only another postman can make you a postman.
ford		Kinda like vampires, right?
the postman		Something like that. You have to be sworn in.
the postman		The organization's kinda shaky. It might not last.
ford		What does?
the postman		You'd meet a lot of people who don't believe in you.
ford		I'll set them straight.
the postman		It's a lonely job.
ford		I've been lonely all my life.
the postman		So have I, Ford. So have I.
the postman		What the hell?     Repeat after me.
the postman		Okay then.
ford		 Okay, then.
the postman		No, no, no, I'm saying that. You just listen... By my authority you are now empowered to carry the mail.  Congratulations, you're a postman.
ford		I want you to know I'd die to get a letter through.
ford		I'll see you around.
the postman		Sure thing, Ford.
briscoe		Johnny's real impressed with you. Whole town's real impressed with you.
the postman		I take it you're not.
briscoe		Smarter than you look.
the postman		What can I do for you, Sheriff?
briscoe		You can clear out. Or I can throw you out. Either way suits me fine.
the postman		I'm afraid you don't understand, Sheriff. I'm a government employee. Authorized by --
briscoe		You're not authorized by shit. You're nothing but a drifter who found a bag of mail. And I want you out of my town.
the postman		This is going in my report.
briscoe		These people don't need dreams, Mr. Postman. They need something real. They need help with the goddamn Holnists. Are you going to bring them that?  Didn't think so. All you cost us so far is a few bowls of soup and maybe later a few broken hearts. I aim to keep it that way. You can stay till morning. Then I don't ever want to see you again.
on ford		 Concentrating, Ford holds a needle and thread and a piece of cloth on which he's drawn an approximation of the post office shoulder patch. By moonlight he embroiders it in. Not exactly work you'd pay money for, but not bad either.
the postman		Just leave it.
the postman		I said leave it.
the postman		Hello, Abby.
abby		You'll be leaving tomorrow?
the postman		I guess.
abby		 Everybody's up late writing letters for you to take. We're not supposed to waste candles like that, but they're so excited.
the postman		How about you?     Do you have a letter?
abby		I don't have anybody to write to.
the postman		I'll find you a pen pal. Someone with interests similar to your own. Dancing, checking for mumps.
abby		You're funny. Hardly anyone's funny around here.
the postman		I guess no one feels much like laughing.
abby		Have you decided yet?
the postman		Oh, well, I've been thinking about it.
the postman		Sure.   Why not?
the postman		God, you're beautiful. Sorry, I know you'd probably like to keep things more clinical.  You don't even know my name.
abby		I don't want to.
abby		It would be easier for me if you closed your eyes.
the postman		What about those?
ford		These are going to Blue Jay. About twenty miles east. I thought I could take them.
the postman		 Okay.   They're yours.
briscoe		I'm your escort out of town.
the postman		 I'll take it.
the postman		Thank you.
the postman		Go?... Oh yeah... I'll head west, then work my way back here in a sort of figure eight.
the postman		Times seem hard right now. But you have to believe it's getting better. Birds are migrating again. The rains are back.
briscoe		You got a helluva nerve, whoever you are.
the postman		Is Abby around?
briscoe		She and Michael are working the north meadow this morning.
briscoe		Well, you're on your own.
briscoe		Hey! Are you really who you say you are?
the postman		If I come back with some mail, you'll know!
briscoe		God damn it!
the postman		Eugene.     Benning. Portland.  Seattle. Boise... St. Rose, Paradise on the Pacific...
the postman		Maybe one thing can still be sacred.  All in all, not a bad gig, huh?
abby		What are you looking at?
michael		Everything.
sentry		Holnists!    Holnists are coming!
bethlehem		They don't usually look at me.
bethlehem		Who's responsible for that?!
briscoe		Holnists, Johnny. You gotta stay out of sight.
ford		I'm a postman. And I'm not hiding from anyone. I --
briscoe		You stay out of this, or I'll lock you up myself damnit.
bethlehem		You.  You'll be responsible.  Get him a torch.
bethlehem		Set that flag on fire.
on ford		 Struggling to get out, but Briscoe blocks his way.
bethlehem		The United States doesn't exist. That flag is an abomination.
briscoe		General Bethlehem.  We're gathering the tribute, sir. Can I take your wagons?
bethlehem		Make sure that fire doesn't go out.
bethlehem		Good Lord. That, gentlemen, is a first-rate piece of ass.
bethlehem		Tell the Sheriff I want to be introduced. She does not belong in a mudhole like this.
michael		Excuse me.
bethlehem		 You again?
michael		That's my wife, General.   She's a married woman.
bethlehem		Do you know what system of government we have here, son?  A feudal system. Like the Middle Ages. With lords and vassals. That's you and me. Those lords, they had some ideas. If a vassal got married, it was the lord's right, his right, to sleep with the bride on the wedding night.
michael		Me and Abby have been married for three years.
bethlehem		Sorry, but I wasn't invited to the wedding. Now, you've already done me one favor, son. Don't let this be a black mark on an otherwise perfect record.
bethlehem		We'll be civilized about this. I want you to give me your blessing.
michael		Sir, I can't.     You can't.
bethlehem		Can't? I'm tired of can't. We had a great nation once. Do you know what made it that way? I can! Till the weak came along. The 'I can'ts' destroyed us. But I'm going to make us strong again. I'm going to be the father of a new nation.  Do you know why it will be me?
bethlehem		Because I can!
abby		Michael!
briscoe		You didn't have to --
bethlehem		Didn't have to what, Sheriff?
bethlehem		Your people seem seditious.    You seem seditious.
briscoe		Aw, Michael...
bethlehem		What am I seeing here? I'm waiting.
briscoe		 Man came through here. With mail. Said he was a postman. Said the government had been restored back east.
bethlehem		What government?
ford		The United States government.
bethlehem		Who said that?
bethlehem		Which way did he go?  Do not make me ask again.
briscoe		 East.
bethlehem		 They'd better find him east.
ford		I managed to save these.
briscoe		 Take that thing off, Johnny.    You want to die, too?
ford		I'm headed south. With the mail.
briscoe		 Don't be a damn fool.
ford		What kind should I be?... Haw!
the postman		Rachel Clark!  Graham Druitt!
voice		G.D. died last winter of flu.
the postman		That's it for now, folks. There'll be more once a real system is in place.
man		Tell us about President Starkey!
woman		What about New York City?   Did they survive the plague?
the postman		Survive? They got Broadway up and running again. There's a kid doing Andrew Lloyd Webber like you wouldn't believe.
the postman		 A buck seventy-five.
the postman		The catch is the only currency recognized are silver American coins minted before 1964 and two dollar bills. Look for Thomas Jefferson. Of course, food is always acceptable as barter.
gibbs		 They won't open the gates, sir.
bethlehem		What?
gibbs		They say they got a representative of the restored United States in there. They say this army is illegal. They say --
chubby sentry		Drop dead and go to hell!
bethlehem		The Romans had an expression they used to scare their children. 'Hannibal ad portas!' -- Hannibal is at the gates. Do you know who Hannibal was?  Colonel Getty, get some men up there and open that gate.
mayor		What the hell are you doing?! Open the gates!
skinny sentry		Government's restored! We don't have to take their crap anymore!
mayor		Idiots!
chubby sentry		No!   Let's fight them!
mayor		With what? We got five guns maybe 20 rounds of ammo in the whole town! How do we fight them with that?!
the postman		You don't. Negotiate a settlement. Give them extra supplies.
mayor		Okay. You're a government rep. You go tell them.
bethlehem		Make it quick.     I've got an attack to coordinate.
the postman		General, um, they've asked me to negotiate a peace treaty.
bethlehem		Do I know you?
the postman		I don't think so, sir. I --
bethlehem		 You're the Postman, aren't you?
abby		 watches from the flap of Bethlehem's tent.    The guard sees and shoves her back inside.
bethlehem		The restored United States. Do these people really believe that shit? Who are you really?
the postman		I am a United States Postman. Authorized by order 417 of the restored Congress to --
bethlehem		I was at the Battle of Georgetown. I watched the White House burn to the ground. Don't try to sell me on any restored U.S...
the postman		The new capital is based in Minneapolis. Inside the Hubert Humphrey Metrodome. You know, where the Vikings used to play?
bethlehem		You're funny.    Now, what are the terms?
the postman		They'll open the gate and give you double what they usually give. Just don't hurt anybody. This was all a misunderstanding.
bethlehem		Appreciate your offer, Postman. Problem is, you're in no position to negotiate. These people made it through the bugs and the riots and the three year winter. But they're not going to survive you.
bethlehem		Law six, justice can be dictated.  Kill him. And kill the restored United States with him.
captain		 In accordance with law eight and by the authority of Emergency Order 46, you are hereby --
bethlehem		Get her.
bethlehem		Colonel Getty!
abby		We can't stop now. They'll be coming after us.
the postman		 Abby...
abby		Don't move.
sixth soldier		If you'd had a bullet, you'd a used it by now.
abby		You're right.
the postman		Thank you.
the postman		I don't think I ever had water soup before. Maybe next time we could try it with a little sand?  A twig garnish?
the postman		You used to think I was funny.
abby		They killed Michael.
the postman		I'm sorry.
abby		How sorry are you?
the postman		What's that supposed to mean?
the postman		What's with you?
abby		You got the mark of eight on you.
the postman		A mark doesn't mean I'm a --
abby		You're a liar.     I should've let you die.
the postman		Then, why didn't you?
the postman		You were with Bethlehem. Does that make you one of them?
the postman		 Don't make me use this.
the postman		Wind's come up.  Getting colder too. Must be another storm --
abby		Anything else?
the postman		I didn't mean for you to --
abby		Your legs are going to rot off if you don't try to walk.
the postman		I'm hurt.
abby		You're lazy.
the postman		Lazy?! I got a hole in my stomach. I'm weak. The two big meals around here are grass and snow. And we're running out of grass.
the postman		Where are you going?
the postman		You're not leaving me here, are you?
abby		This is the last of it.
the postman		 Give me a break...
abby		I'm going to check the pass.
the postman		Why are you in such a hurry to get out of here? I can think of worse places. And worse company to --
the postman		You can't play tic-tac-toe with yourself.
abby		Help!
the postman		I can't help you.
abby		I told you that's all there was.
the postman		That's why you should have it.
abby		I knew you could walk.
the postman		You're weird, you know that?
the postman		We walked on the moon once, Abby.
abby		So?    What good is that now?
the postman		Obviously you've forgotten Tang and microwave ovens.  Your face looks pretty.
the postman		Not so bruised.
abby		Look, there's something you'd better know. You're going to find out soon enough. I'm pregnant.  It's Michael's baby. You're just the body father.
the postman		How do you know it's mine and not Bethlehem's?
abby		He tried with me almost every night. He couldn't do it. So he beat me. Said it was my fault.
the postman		Abby.
the postman		What is it?   What's wrong?    Is it the baby?
abby		The pass is clear. It's time to go.
the postman		What happened?
the postman		You got our stuff out.
abby		Of course.
the postman		Of course?   I don't understand.
abby		I set the fire.
the postman		Am I missing the point here?
abby		You didn't think we'd stay here forever, did you?  You shaved.
the postman		Yeah...
abby		It looks nice.
the postman		You're really weird, you know that?
the postman		Have you ever heard of St. Rose, Abby?
abby		I've heard people talk. I've heard lots of names. Bliss. Hesperia. New Eden. Sheriff Briscoe says it's a fantasy.
the postman		He's wrong. St. Rose is out there. And I'm going to find it.
abby		But you're The Postman.
the postman		Look, I'm nobody, Abby. I'm just...
the postman		This is what I hate. Strangers. Do you say 'hi' or do you blow their head off? Do they want to share what they got or take what you have? And if they want to take, how far are you willing to go to stop them? Damn it.  All right. That's far enough.
the postman		We don't want any trouble.
rider		Me neither, mister.
abby		What are you?
the postman		That's impossible.
ponytail		Ain't you heard of The Postman?
abby		No, tell us.
ponytail		He's only the greatest man who ever lived. He crossed the wasteland, shook his fist at the enemy and spit in the eye of General Bethlehem himself. He's back east with President Starkey right now.
the postman		Who told you all this?
ponytail		Postmaster Ford Lincoln Mercury. He's in direct contact with the restored congress.
the postman		Direct contact... I don't believe this.
ponytail		 Do you have mail, or don't you?
the postman		You said Carrier Eighteen. That mean there's eighteen of you?
ponytail		Thirty-two.    As of midnight.
chubby		You got another letter?
ford		More recruits?
red		Seven of them. They're coming from everywhere.
chubby		Did you get a letter or didn't you?
ford		Gather 'round, everybody. Got another letter here. Came in last night.
the postman		What's all this?
young carrier		Postman sent Ford another letter. He's gonna read it.
ford		 'Hello, all postal carriers.'
carriers		 Hello!
ford		I'm here in Minneapolis with President Starkey, but my thoughts are with you. Remember, nothing worth doing can be done overnight. Keep your chins up and do your best not to get shot. Signed, The Postman.
ponytail		His letters are always kind of short.
ford		 Hold on now. There's a P.S... Anybody know what P.S. stands for?
chubby		Holy shit...
red		That would be H.S., Chubby.
chubby		I seen him once when I lived in Benning. It's The Postman!
the postman		P.S.   Ford knows what to do.
ford		Guess you want to talk about this?
ponytail		I found him!   I found him!
the postman		President Starkey? Minneapolis? Ford knows what to do?
ford		I thought you were dead.
the postman		So? I'm not making the connection. What's all this then?
ford		I lied. I told people you were in contact with me.
the postman		Why?
ford		Because I didn't want it to end.
the postman		I don't know how long I can stay, Ford. President Starkey will send word one day and I'll have to move on. Understand?
ford		Sure. But you'll stay till he sends word? Right?
the postman		Aw, don't do that. Hands down.
ford		You'll stay 'til President Starkey sends word, right? Right?
the postman		Yeah, till he sends word, right.
ford		Could you say a few words?
the postman		Two plus two equals four.
ford		We bring all the mail here first. We sort it, group it and then it goes out. So far we got thirty routes.
the postman		You spelled tyranny wrong.
chubby		 Boy, he's smart.
the postman		How old are you?
old george		Seventy-five, sir.
the postman		Can you ride?
old george		Nope. Can't walk too good, either.
the postman		Why are you here?
old george		I know stuff.
the postman		 When did you get that?
old george		1970. A girl with eyes as big as saucers did me in a little town called Saigon.
the postman		Abby --
abby		Yes?
the postman		Ford wants me to have his trailer. Said it's the best one.
abby		I'm on the other side of town.
the postman		I got plenty of room here.
the postman		So much for the uniform theory.
bethlehem		What do you think, Lieutenant?
gibbs		Can't tell what it is if you stand too close. The colors all kinda run together, don't they?
bethlehem		Yes...
bethlehem		Well, if it isn't our old friend the U.P.S. man.
gibbs		We captured him on the Oregon border.
bethlehem		Who the hell are you?
bethlehem		I want the camp struck at dawn. We're moving north.
gibbs		Yes, sir.
bethlehem		 You spelled tyranny wrong.
the postman		I wish they'd stop saluting.
the postman		Just stay safe and remember. The mailman's more important than the mail.
chubby		Boy, he's smart.
the postman		What the hell?
the postman		For President Starkey and the First Congress of the Restored United States, I officially declare Postal Station 10... What's the name of this town?
young leader		We never named it.
the postman		 I officially declare Postal Station 10 in Elvis, Oregon, open for business!
little boy		I missed him.
briscoe		Phil, this better not be another of your U.F.O.'s.
the postman		I'm back!   And I got mail.
briscoe		 I'll be damned.
ford		Bethlehem is offering a 1000 pounds of gold to whoever brings you in. Dead or alive.
the postman		Thank God it wasn't a carton of cigarettes.
briscoe		I'd have shot you myself.
briscoe		Things are getting better. Getting better all the time.  I don't know who you are, but I do know I was wrong about you.
the postman		Got a letter for you, Sheriff.
briscoe		It's from my sister. I thought she was dead.
the postman		You thought wrong.
dance		 The Postman taps Ford's shoulder, wants to cut in on him and Abby. Ford steps aside. A beat before Abby decides it's okay. They begin. Her eyes are on her feet, careful that she doesn't take a misstep. But his eyes are on her. And over it all, BLEEDING IN, the sound of HOOF BEATS.
dance		 They whirl as the tempo picks up. The Postman pulls Abby in closer. Her eyes now move up to his.
road		 They're closing in on the terrified Red.
dance		 Abby and The Postman.    The chemistry is undeniable.
road		 RIFLES CRACK. SHOT in the back, Red throws back his arms. Letters flutter from the mail bag over his shoulder; he seems to glide along that way forever.
the postman		Tell me about the baby, Abby.   I want to know.
road		 Red falls from his horse.    One of the soldiers scoops up his mailbag.  CUT TO:
gibbs		Births and deaths, the weather, gossip. There's nothing here.
bethlehem		Nothing? Everything is here.    Am I the only one who sees that?  Get out!
bethlehem		Give the people back their hope and their dreams won't be far behind.
bethlehem		What is it, Getty?
bethlehem		 A military man, especially a commander, should keep a journal. After he's gone, it's the only real defense against the slander that arises.
the postman		Who do you talk to?
old george		Not a soul in seven years of trying. But I will.
old george		Go ahead. Take a look.  Want some?
the postman		No. No thanks. Hey, don't let the kids see that.
old george		I was an aerospace engineer. I helped design the Galileo space station.  I dream it's orbiting Earth forever. With a dozen human skeletons all grinning at each other. Laughing at us down here.
the postman		What is it?
ford		It's Red.   He's overdue.
the postman		That makes five. All on Southern routes.
bethlehem		No.  No. Not him. No.  Children. I want a man and you bring me children!
gibbs		Not yet. General wants the message to get back.
the postman		Tell me about the other stuff you know...
the postman		Ford, I want you to get rid of the bodies. I don't want these people blamed for what we did.
sentry		Halt!   Identify yourself!
sentries		 They raise their rifles as the riderless wagon looms out of the night. They each get off a SHOT before being forced to dive out of the way. The wagon continues on, down to...
bethlehem		 Postage due...
bethlehem		You want a war? I'll give you a war. I was born for it!
the postman		Get this mail sorted. Bring me a fresh horse. Something to eat.
the postman		And all the mail going South!
the postman		They changed the oath.
abby		Ford's idea.
the postman		Figures.  They don't think to ask who they're replacing. Or why.
luke		Sir? It'd be an honor if I could shake your hand.
luke		Sir?
the postman		You look like... Do I know you?
luke		No, sir.
the postman		Well, good luck to you.
the postman		Nice kid.   Probably be dead in a week.
abby		 You're exhausted. You need rest. There's food in the trailer --
the postman		Where are you going?
ponytail		Route twenty-two. I'm already an hour late.
the postman		You're grounded. Get off the horse. You know the rule.
ponytail		What rule?
the postman		Twenty-two's too far south.
ponytail		But they're waiting on their mail down there.
the postman		Get off the goddamn horse.
the postman		 Tie him off to this one.
abby		You can't keep doing this.
the postman		Doing what?
abby		Riding all the routes.   You're not saving anyone.
the postman		Did I ever tell you how I got to be a postman, Abby?  I don't know if you'd laugh or cry.
gibbs		Ready!
soldier		The post office, General?
bethlehem		No. Let it stand. All by itself. So it can remind them what it cost them.
gibbs		Aim!
gibbs		Fire!
bethlehem		You think you can ride?  Then today's your lucky day.
bloodied carrier		Bethlehem says...
bloodied carrier		... he's... headed north. He's gonna kill ten people in every town. Then burn it to the ground. For what you did...
bloodied carrier		He said to tell you Pine View's on his way. He said he'd wait there, but not for long.  I was so scared, sir... I thought they were going to kill me, too... I wish they would have...
postman's pov		 Pine View in flames. The big John Deere gun has blown several gaps into the palisade. Bethlehem watches as his army sacks the town. The people have been rounded up. The selection of the ten has begun.
ford		What are you going to do?
the postman		I'm going to stop this.
ford		You can't.
the postman		Get out of my way, Ford. All of you.
ford		 They'll kill you.
the postman		Goddamnit --
ford		You can't help them!
the postman		There's still time, Ford!
ponytail		 You're hurting him.
ford		No, this is all my doing.    I went against your orders.
ford		The Holnists we killed. You told me to bury them. But I didn't. I sent Bethlehem the bodies.
the postman		Why?
ford		Because Bethlehem has to know that we're not going to stop.
the postman		God damn you, Ford. Those people down there are dying because of us. Because of what we did.
ford		Bullshit. They're dying because of Bethlehem. They're dying because this is a shitty world. And if we're ever going to change it, then somebody might have to die. If I could make it be me down there I would. But I can't.
the postman		My God, what have I done?  We don't even know their names...
ponytail		 We know their names. The little one's my brother. His name is Billy.
ponytail		What Ford did was wrong. But it doesn't change anything for any of us. Does it?
bethlehem		 He's out there somewhere. Watching. I can feel it.
bethlehem		You feel it too, don't you? Didn't have to end like this, Sheriff. He knew where I'd be if he wanted to face me like a man. Instead, he's hiding like a rabbit. So much for your Postman.
gibbs		Ready!    Aim!
briscoe		Ride, Postman! Ride! You hear me? I said ride!
bethlehem		Fire!
abby		Ford thinks you're going to do something.
the postman		I am.
the postman		If I don't, those kids are going to keep on getting themselves killed.
abby		Ford doesn't know what it means to be a kid. He doesn't have your memories. None of them do. All they've got is the lousy world we gave them. And this is the only decent thing in it.
the postman		What? Being a postman? It's all bullshit, Abby. All of it.  I took this uniform off a skeleton to stay warm. I made up the rest to stay fed. There is no restored United States.
abby		I knew it was something like that.
the postman		Weird thing is, being a Postman was almost the best thing that ever happened to me...  Remember this? You left it behind that night.
abby		I remember...
the postman		I always liked to think you left it on purpose. But maybe you just forgot it.
the postman		Is this everybody?
ford		The rest are on the overdue list.
the postman		This is everybody.  Got a letter from President Starkey.
the postman		'Greetings all carriers.'
carriers		Greetings, President Starkey!
the postman		 'I've been in contact with The Postman. I've received all the reports. I'm proud of you all.'
the postman		In dark days, in a weary world, you gave everything and asked for nothing. You beat back despair and replaced it with hope and for that your country can never repay you. But the price is too high. I won't see anymore of my bravest die. It is my duty to hereby disband the Postal Service of the restored United States. You are to burn your uniforms and The Postman is to return to Minneapolis at once. Thank you and that is all.
ford		 The President never wrote that letter.
the postman		If he could've that's what he would have said.
ford		Who's the other letter to?
the postman		Bethlehem. I'm taking it to him in the morning.
ford		What does it say?
the postman		Mail's private. You know that.
ford		What does it say?
the postman		 It says it's over. It says we quit.
ford		It says you quit. What about the oath?
the postman		Tell me something, Ford. How much mail can a dead postman deliver? It's over.
ford		Then I'll take it.
the postman		I can't trust you.
ford		If this is the end. If this is the last piece of mail that ever gets delivered. I'll take it.
the postman		Whoever takes this letter probably dies for it.
ford		I'm still a postman. You owe it to me... I owe it to me.
the postman		I'm going to St. Rose, Abby. And I'm taking you with me. I know you don't want to hear it, but that's my child inside you. I want to see it born somewhere safe. I have a right to that, Abby. Whether you like it or not.
the postman		Thought I recognized you.
luke		General Bethlehem said...  ... You should be on your knees when I do it.
the postman		I don't give a damn what that asshole said.
luke		The general is a great man.
the postman		The general is a fucking lunatic.
the postman		You don't own a thought in that goddamn head of yours, do you?  You want to see a man?
the postman		That's a man.
the postman		You don't understand, do you? You never will until you can think for yourself and be willing to pay the price for it.
the postman		You ready?
the postman		You're a better man than Bethlehem, Luke. I've seen it.
chubby		Guess Minneapolis is that way.
the postman		We can't help you. We're just as lost as you are.
bethlehem		Good lord, what do we have here?
ford		I'm a representative of the restored United States --
gibbs		He's got a letter. Says The Postman sent it.
bethlehem		A letter?
bethlehem		'Bethlehem. This letter is my testimony to the fact that there is no restored United States and there is no Postal Service.'  'My carriers are returning home. In exchange, I'm asking you to let them be. The Postman.'
bethlehem		He expects me to believe this?
ford		Traitor...
bethlehem		Then I've won.     I've won.
bethlehem		You were supposed to kill him.
luke		I couldn't get close enough.  This one's his second in command.
bethlehem		Why doesn't that surprise me?
bethlehem		Bring out the one we found yesterday. They can die together.
ford		Who are you?
cal carrier		Name's Clark. Postal Carrier of the restored Republic of California. Who are you?
ford		Postmaster Ford Lincoln Mercury.
cali carrier		It's an honor.
bethlehem		Wait a minute... wait a minute!
gibbs		Sir?
bethlehem		Hold your fire! You don't know each other?  This will never be over. It'll go on except I'll be fighting a goddamn ghost.
gibbs		Should we fire, sir?
bethlehem		No goddamnit.
bethlehem		No, I won't fight a ghost. Tabula rasa, gentlemen. A clean slate. I want all mail carriers hunted down. I want The Postman found. I want him dealt with.  He rode west?
the postman		I don't know him. Do you?
abby		 Where do you think he came from?
squatter		Howdy. Welcome to sunny California.
the postman		 What happened here?
squatter		Little accident. The ground started to shake big time and the Hanford nuclear plant went...  ... 'Poof.' Destroyed everything for miles. But the sunsets are beautiful.
the postman		You ever hear of a city called St. Rose?
squatter		Friend, I've never heard of St. Shit.
squatter		Hey, don't go! I got Monopoly in the house! Boardwalk, Park Place and the Reading Railroad!
chubby		You think that's President Starkey?
ponytail		No.
chubby		What makes you so sure?
ponytail		President lives in a white house. That guy's place is gray.
the postman		 We can rest in there.
the postman		Did you see that?
abby		 I'm hungry, Postman.
guard		Set the rifle on the ground.
the postman		This old thing? It isn't even loaded. Where are we?
the postman		I know you.     You're famous.
the postman		We will be. Right now, we'd just appreciate some food.  I got some kids behind me, too.
the postman		Three.  Hey, guys, come on in! I know you're out there!
chubby sentry		Boy, is he smart...
the postman		Thanks.    She's not my wife.
the postman		Let me ask you something, have you ever heard of a town with electric lights?
the postman		Yeah!
the postman		How far?
the postman		You seem like a decent man. And these seem like decent people.
the postman		And this seems like a safe place.
the postman		All of them. I'll give you the horses and my gear. Abby's special. She's strong. Probably end up running the place.
abby		 You never heard of a postman?
abby		There used to be a postman for every street in America. They wore uniforms. And hats. Like this one...
abby		My postman knew the name of every kid on my street. He knew our birthdays. He'd even find the baseballs you'd hit down the street. I can still see the smile on his face. The tip of his cap -- when he had a letter in his bag with my name on it. Mine always came just after school. You could set your watch by him. Unless you were waiting on something special -- like a present from somewhere far away or a letter from your sweetheart. Then it seemed like he'd never come. I used to think they could make time stand still.
abby		I don't think we ever really understood what they meant to us until they were gone. Getting a letter made you feel like you were part of something bigger than yourself. No place was ever too far away for the postman. So nobody ever had to be alone. The postman was someone you could count on. Things just made more sense when they were around.  That's the kind of world we used to have. A world a lot of us took for granted. And now we've got this one. And it makes me wonder -- what kind of world do I want my child to live in? I want my child to live in a world where hopes and dreams aren't just lies you tell yourself to get through another day. I want my child, and I want my friends -- I want all of us to live in a world where you still get your mail.
the postman		Yes.
the postman		Yeah, I guess I am. And all of a sudden, I'm not wearing the right clothes.
the postman		I'm sorry I've brought this on you.
the postman		The order was to burn all uniforms.
the postman		You know what to do then?
ponytail		Talk to the people. Gather who's willing. Tell them it's important. Tell them we can make a difference.
chubby sentry		And tell 'em we're going to kick ass.
the postman		Yeah, tell them that, too.
abby		This is hard for me.  I don't know why I've been so blessed. And I've tried to find a way to be thankful, but I swear, if I lose you...
the postman		Abby, do you think a lie can become the truth?
abby		I don't know, but I believe in you. You have a gift, Postman.     I saw it back in Pine View. 
abby		When you come back, we'll be waiting here for you. So you can take us to St. Rose.
the postman		How do I stop --
counterweight		 Plummeting into the Columbia River Gorge.      The Mayor lets out a rebel yell.
basket		 The Postman is whipped along, past the riders below.     The speed exhilarating.
old george		Steady, boys, steady.
gibbs		In accordance with Law Eight...
old george		Get on with it, you floppy-eared sonuvabitch!
the postman		 Riding over the crest. Galloping toward them. Behind him, forty new mail carriers. All riding like mad. One of them carries the flag of the restored United States.  Gibbs and his men run for their horses. SHOTS are FIRED. Four Holnists go down. The rest gallop away.  The Postman and his carriers meet.
bethlehem		How many?
gibbs		A least a hundred. With guns.
bethlehem		 With guns? Are you sure?
gibbs		Yes, sir...
bethlehem		Looks more like two hundred to me...
bethlehem		 Only thing worse than a coward is one who can't count. Lieutenant, do yourself a favor. Die well in this battle. In my army a deserter's life is a brief and unpleasant one.
bethlehem		 At last, someone with courage enough to bring the fight to me.
bethlehem		Reckoning, gentlemen. This is the day I've dreamed of.
bethlehem		They're an eager-looking bunch. Morale's a dangerous thing.  Bring him up. I want this postman to see how the game is played.
the postman		 Stay here. No one moves until I give the orders.
sergeant		Are they surrendering?
bethlehem		God, I hope not.
bethlehem		My little shipping clerk.
the postman		We're both a couple of frauds. You know it; I know it.
bethlehem		Great men are made by other great men. Patton had Rommel. Grant had Lee. But I get you.
bethlehem		Are you trying to goad me into a fight?
the postman		Wouldn't it be great if wars could be fought just by the assholes who started them? We could settle this thing right here. You and me.
bethlehem		Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way.
the postman		It does in your army.
the postman		I invoke law seven of the Laws of Eight! Any man may challenge for leadership of the clan!
bethlehem		What?
the postman		I challenge you.
bethlehem		You're not a Holnist. You're not a member of the clan. You don't have the right.
the postman		I have every right. I invoke law seven!
the postman		I challenge for leadership of the clan!
bethlehem		Where do I know you from?
the postman		'Cry Havoc! And let slip the dogs of war.' Remember that?
bethlehem		Shakespeare. The one who didn't want to fight.
the postman		I should've found a way to kill you then. But you seemed so strong.
bethlehem		Law seven it is.  This war is settled here!
bethlehem		I study people. I know your problem. Do you know why you can't fight?
bethlehem		You have nothing to fight for. You don't care about anything. You don't value anything. You don't believe in anything. That's what makes me better.
the postman		 I believe in the United States Postal Service.
the postman		Neither snow...  Will stay this courier from the swift completion of his appointed rounds...
the postman		It doesn't have to be this way. We don't have to kill each other. We can live together. We can --
ford		Law three.   Mercy is for the weak.
the postman		Ford, don't...
ford		Law eight. There is only one penalty and that penalty is death.
the postman		He isn't worth it. I'm the head of the clan now! There are going to be new laws!  Law one! No more killing! There's going to be peace!
the postman		Who else?   Who else has a law?
woman		Everyone has to learn how to read.
the postman		That's law two. Who else?!
luke		Four.    No more tattoos.
the postman		How about it, Ford Lincoln Mercury? You give us law eight.
the postman		 Be a leader, Ford.
ford		Law eight...
ford		... Live and let live.
bethlehem		Would I had bestowed that time in the tongues that I have in fencing, dancing and bear-baiting. Oh, had I but followed the arts...
the postman		Grow like savages -- as soldiers will -- that nothing do but mediate on blood.
the postman		Somebody take a letter.
chubby		Huh?
the postman		A letter...
abby		Your daddy wrote to tell you that he'll be here as soon as he can. And that he loves you very much.
the postman		Mail's slow.   I'll have to see about that.
abby		Your daughter.     Her name is Hope.
hope		But he never did see St. Rose. There was too much to be done. He'd made a promise and in keeping it -- he traded one dream for another. With no regrets. And so, in honor of my father...
older man		That was me.
****Dialogues from script :Power_of_One.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY Copyright  1990 Warner Bros.  2.  THE POWER OF ONE
9.		as another student painfully tattoo-scars his arm with a swastika, using a knife and blue dye. Seeing the six- year-old, Jaapie turns his attention to him and addresses him in Afrikaans.
jaapie		God has sent Hitler to deliver us from the English bastards who stole our country and killed our people. Heil Hitler! The other boys chorus in.
all		Heil Hitler!
jaapie		We will swear a blood oath. When Hitler comes we'll rise up and kill the Verdomde Rooineks.
all		A blood oath!    A blood oath! Jaapie bends down and grabs the six-year-old by the shirt front, yanking him up.
jaapie		With your blood.
jaapie		We swear allegiance to Adolf Hitler. Heil Hitler!
all		We swear allegiance to Adolf Hitler. Heil Hitler!
jaapie		Death to all Englishmen in South Africa. Heil Hitler! The chorus repeats.
jaapie		God bless the fatherland.    Heil Hitler!
10.		ALL Heil Hitler!
jaapie		See what we have in store for you when Hitler comes, Rooinek. Hoy!
boy		No!
jaapie		For crimes committed against the whole Boer people. I, Jaapie Botha, the judge and Uberfuhrer, sentence you and your Rooinek kaffir chicken to death. Heil Hiter.!
all		Heil Hitler!
all		Heil Hitler!   Heil Hitler! The SLING WHISTLES through the air, faster and faster.
boy		No! Jaapie releases the stone. It flies true, catching the SQUAWKING, struggling CHICKEN flush in the chest. The flapping stops as blood soaks through feathers.
11.		Jaapie flings his hand forward, victorious.
jaapie		Heil Hitler!
all		Heil Hitler!
jaapie		Hang him up!
boys		Jaapie!   No!
jaapie		Hang him!
jaapie		You will pay for the deaths of our grandfathers and grandmothers, our aunts and uncles. All Rooineks will pay and you will be first. Pull!
jaapie		In the name of Adolf Hitler and the fatherland, I sentence you to die, Verdomde Rooinek.
12.		BOYS Kill him!   Kill him!   Kill him!
staff member		What's this?
pk		I came to after being unconscious for two days, the rock missing my eye by half an inch. After a week in hospital it was decided I'd be sent to my grandfather's house in the English town of Barberton, at least until passions at school cooled. Jaapie Botha was expelled; sent home to his family's farm in disgrace.
13.		glasses off and wipes the lenses deliberately.   After a long moment he turns to face the class.
pk		Thank you, sir.
14.		Oxford selection committee. You are to appear before them in three weeks. I assume you'll be reading a piece of your fiction as your presentational. PK Yes, sir.
pk		Yes sir. I will.  Will the scholarship be decided at the same time, sir?
pk		Very good, sir. St. John picks up a book and opens the pages. He begins to read. PK takes it as a cue for his dismissal. He goes to exit.
pk		Thank you, sir.
15.		PK How we doing?
morrie		You win and your dream comes true. You lose, we're back to bread and butter sandwiches till term's end. What'd he want? PK My appointement before the Oxford committee came through.
morrie		A snap.
pk		For a brain like you, maybe.
morrie		Come on, you'll read one of your pieces, they'll be begging you to attend.
pk		But will they pay for the privilege?
morrie		Well let's bloody hope so. It'll be a lonely time without you there.
pk		Morrie Levy. Is that the voice of sentimentality I hear coming from you?
morrie		Sentimentality my ass. Practicality. Where am I going to find a sure thing like you to make book on at bloody Oxford?
pk		Go on.
16.		22   INT. LONG HALLWAY - CLOSEUP - PK AND MORRIE           22
morrie		You hear Sutcliffe screwed Bartlett's sister when he stayed with them over holidays?
pk		I don't believe it.
morrie		I heard it from Bartlett's own lips. He's selling reservations for next holiday. A pound for one night; three pounds for four.
pk		You register? MORRIE For both of us. Took the whole holiday.
morrie		You nervous? PK No. MORRIE Christ! I'm about to have a calf. This bloody Boer gets lucky, we're in the poorhouse. They reach the double doors. Still in CLOSEUP, Morrie turns to face PK for the first time.
morrie		Now remember. We're not here to exhibit our wares. We go in, we do the job, we get out. Right?
pk		Right.
announcer		And at the end of six matches in all weight divisions, the score is Prince of Wales three victories, Helpmakeer three victories.
announcer		And now for the final bout to determine which school will win the Johannesburg 1950 public school boxing team championship. In this corner, weighing 140 pounds, standing 5'8", from the Helpmakeer School with a record of 13-0 on the year, Jannie Geildenhaus. A huge cheer goes up for JANNIE, muscular, bare-chested, as he dances and shadowboxes for the crowd.
announcer		And in this corner, representing the Prince of Wales School, the current Johannesburg Public School welterweight champion, also with a record of 13-0 on the year, also 140 pounds, Kid P.K.
announcer		We thank the native population for their spirited display of enthusiasm. But now, on to the main event. Fighters to center ring, please.
referee		You both know the rules.     No butts, no elbows, no low    blows. First man to score three    knock downs wins. Let's have     a good clean fight. Good luck     to you. The fighters slap leather. PK turns back to his corner when his focus is broken dramatically by a face in the crowd.
morrie		We're in a bloody war here, in
19.		case you forgot. Let's keep our mind on that, hey?
jannie		Blery Rooinek.     I'll kill you.
morrie		Up!   Up!
referee		Okay.   Fight.
morrie		Christ! If they get caught in here they're dead.  What the hell's going on?
pk		I don't know.
morrie		Well, worry about it later. In case you haven't noticed, this Boer bastard is trying to kill you.
pk		You see the way he drops his left when he throws the right?
morrie		Yeah?
21.		29   ANGLE ON MORRIE                                            29
morrie		Thank you, God.
morrie		Here you go, pal. He hands PK the money.
pk		You're the treasurer of this company. You hold it. Did you find out what I asked for?
22.		Uh, listen, P.K. You know in this world there is no greater proponent of sins of the flesh than Morrie Levy. But  do yourself a favor on this one.  Take my advice. Pass. PK Thanks for the advice.    The information please.
morrie		Do you know who her father is? Professor Daniel Marais. PK So?
morrie		So? He's the Nationalist Party's resident intellectual. The man is one of the architects of this damned system of -- what are they calling it? -- apartheid? He has about as much use for a Rooinek Englishman rutting after his daughter as the Queen does for balls, pardon my French.
pk		What's her name and where do I find her?
pk		You going to take book on that?
morrie		Already have.    Three-to-one says you don't.
pk		Where'd you bet?
morrie		I took a big position you do.
morrie		In case you have to bail yourself out.
pk		May I come in?
pk		I'm sorry to scare you. MARIA  You can't be here.
pk		I didn't know how else to meet you.
maria		I could be expelled.
25.		Girls don't usually come to boxing matches.
maria		We went on a dare. Please. PK ignores her anxiety.
pk		Did you like it? MARIA It was...  ... exciting.    You were very good.
pk		 Thank you. I'm glad I impressed you.
maria		 You speak the Taal.
pk		I'll speak Zulu if it'll help me see you again. MARIA I can't.
pk		Why not?
maria		I need my father's permission.
pk		Is it hard to get?
maria		Hard for an Afrikaaner boy. Impossible for an English one.
pk		How about your permission?    Do I have that?
26.		GIRL #1 We're having coffee upstairs. Want to come?
maria		I have to finish this paper.
maria		Please go.
pk		You didn't answer my question. MARIA There are plenty of English girls. What makes me so important?
pk		The way I felt when I saw you.
pk		I can't wait.
maria		 Good night, PK.
27.		PK pauses.
pk		I don't remember telling you my name. MARIA  And I don't remember telling you mine. PK smiles back at her. He drops to the ground. Maria closes the window and watches him scoot across the campus until he is swallowed by the night.
pk		My people?
marais		The English.
pk		I consider myself an African, sir.
marais		As do I. As do the Zulu, the Xhosa, the Pongo, the Ndebele. We're all Africans. But all from separate tribes, ay?
marais		Why do you say that? PK Because it's the whole tribal idea that creates our problems here in South Africa. MARAIS The problems of South Africa, my boy, do not come from tribalism. They come from counter-tribalism. From people insisting that natural laws which have been in place and operating since God's creation, should be tampered with. Does the gazelle sleep with the lion? Does the rhino graze with the mouse? The separation of things is not coincidental. Do you think a Zulu wants to see his culture, his sense of identity, replaced by someone else's anymore than I do?
pk		No, sir. But I don't think he wants being a Zulu to mean he is denied the same rights as everyone else has.
marais		Which is why civilization is defined by the ability to live under the rule of law. Laws define rights.
pk		But do they define justice? MARAIS Ah. Justice. The banner behind which the English marched as they gobbled up a quarter of the world? Justice, my boy, is only relative to who's in charge.
pk		And how long they stay in charge is only relative to how well they dispense that justice...  ... with all due respect.
maria		Papa, would you like coffee in the library or the parlor?
marais		 The library, mein leib.
marais		I can't figure out if you're brave or foolish. PK Why is that, sir?
marais		You come here to ask for permission to see my daughter. Correct?
pk		Yes, sir. MARAIS And knowing  who I am, what I stand for, do you  think this sort of discussion  is going to put that request in  a favorable light?
pk		I thought a man of your intellectual reputation wouldn't want his daughter seeing someone who didn't think.
marais		Let me give you some advice then. You're right. I admire a keen mind.  But intellectual reputation or not, I am first a Marais, a member of the Volk.
30.		PK These ideas I picked up somewhere else.
doc		This I do not normally without permission do, ja? But to catch the expression. After all, it is the expression that is important. Ja? Without the expression the human being is just a lump of meat. You have some problems, I think. I am Professor Karl von Vollensteen.
pk		I'm P.K.
doc		Such a young person with such an
31.		old expression. I think we can be friends. Ja?
doc		The brain, P.K., has two functions. It is the best reference library ever, which is a good thing to have. Ja? But also from it comes original thought. In school you will get all filled up with the facts. Here your brain will learn where to look, how to look, how to think. And then you will have for yourself all the brains that have ever been.
doc		But it harms no other plant.   It
33.		has patience and solitude and modesty. In Mexico there is a cactus that blooms once in a hundred years and then only at night. That is saintliness of the highest order I think. Ja? From cactus comes medicine to heal the wounds of men and little buttons if you eat one you can touch the face of God or stare into the mouth of hell. It is the plant of patience, solitude, love, and madness. Modesty, beauty. Toughness and gentleness. Of all the plants I think it is closest to God. Ja?
doc		Everything fits, P.K. Nothing is unexplained. Nature is one big chain reaction. Everything depends on everything else. From the smallest to the biggest. Always in life an idea starts small like a tree.
doc		P.K., if there is one thing I know you to be that is a lot more than just satisfactory. Ja?
pk		But I don't want to be known as a brain.
doc		Why not?
pk		Who do you think gets beaten up on all the time in school? DOC My boy, to be smart is not a sin. But to be smart and not use it, that is sin number one. And as for getting beat up on, use your brain to figure out how not to be. He hands PK the report card, his displeasure obvious. As they crest the hill the cottage comes INTO VIEW along with a parked Army car and two armed soldiers leaning against it. Seeing Doc and PK, the soldiers smarten up, raising their rifles and advancing.
doc		Again it begins. The stupidity. Do not be frightened.
38.		MORRIE Look, even if the scholarship doesn't come through, my old man said he'd lend you the money.
pk		Morrie.
morrie		All right. All right. We'll call it the 'Levy Carpet Emporium Scholarship for Poor but Proud Christian Gentlemen.' How's that?
pk		Tell your father I appreciate the offer. MORRIE God, I hate people who can't be bought.
pk		Why is that?
morrie		I don't know.    Personality disorder.
pk		Undoubtedly.
39.		men training. Sweat and smoke fill the air along with the faint scent of blood. Fighters, both black and white, train with each other. Morrie is amazed.
morrie		How do they get away with this?
pk		There he is.
morrie		Christ, he's old.
pk		And he's the best.    C'mon. PK leads Morrie across the gym. PK passes an African fighter. He stops training when he sees PK. He turns to another African fighter, glancing at PK. One by one the blacks in the gym stop training to look at PK. PK and Morrie approach the rheumy Old Man yelling at the two fighters in the ring above him in a thick Polish- Jewish accent.
solly		What?    You boys lost?
pk		I'm the one who called you yesterday. From the Prince of Wales School?
solly		Oh yeah, yeah.     The champeen. Right? PK  Right.
solly		And who are you?
morrie		The champeen's manager.
solly		Oy gevalt.  You know you train here it's not like those nice school fights you're used to. Three knockdowns you win.
morrie		What does it cost for you to train him?
solly		For my personal attentinons, Mr. Manager? Fifty pounds a month. For one of them...  ... less.
morrie		Here's for six months in advance. Three hundred pounds. Solly pushes the money back.
solly		Six months? I don't know your boy'll last six minutes.
pk		I'll last.
41.		What are you staring? Punch, don't stare. C'mon. Work or you're out.
pk		Yes, sir.
solly		Go change in the back. We'll see if you couldn't find a better use for all that money.
pk		Thank you, sir.
solly		Why's he want to do this, a nice- looking schoolboy?
morrie		He wants to be welterweight champ of the world.
solly		Oh sure, sure. And I'd like to be twenty-five again.
morrie		You like to make book on it?
solly		 You giving odds?
morrie		You name them.
solly		You both meshugah.
solly		Never I seen someone so young throw an eight-punch combination. Where did you learn such a thing?
pk		In prison, sir.
solly		You trying to be a comedian and a boxer? Mr. Manager, come to my office. We'll talk terms. You, get showered, and see me after. We'll talk training. Solly and Morrie head off toward Solly's office. PK watches them go, a small victorious smile on his face.
pk		Yes, sir.
von zyl		I am Kommandant Von Zyl. The professor has requested you to be his visitor so you can continue your studies on piano and he can continue with his studies on cactus. This is the first specimen?
von zyl		The professor taught you this, ja? Of course to your English town he is a prisoner, a criminal. To us who respect such learning and culture, he is an honored guest.
von zyl		This pass is good for any time, any day. Would you like to see him now?
pk		Yes, sir. VON ZYL Come.   I will take you myself. Von Zyl rises and opens the door for PK.    They exit.
von zyl		We have cleared a little plot behind the cellblock for the cactus. And tomorrow we have the professor's piano moved here. There is not another instrument like it in the territory. Maybe one day the two of you can give a concert for us, hey?
pk		Yes, sir.
von zyl		You like to box?
pk		I would like to learn, meneer. Are the boys prisoners?
von zyl		 No, no. The sons of the guards. See that one there? (points to a
45.		little pudge boy flailing away) That's my son, Danie. It's a club. Lieutenant Smit.
smit		Sir?
von zyl		We have room for one more on the squad? Smit looks down at PK.
smit		He's a little small, Kommandant. VON ZYL We'll build him up then.
smit		Yes, sir.   But I really don't have anyone  to spare to teach him right now.   You know, with the tournament  coming up.
von zyl		There must be someone.
smit		Piet.
smit		You teach this boy basics, and you teach him good or I knock your black head flat, you hear?
geel piet		I teach him best I know, baas.
smit		We train every day. First thing in the morning. Miss two trainings, you're gone.
pk		Yes, meneer.
smit		Come tomorrow.     See this old kaffir.
pk		Yes, meneer.     Thank you, meneer. VON ZYL Lieutenant, a word?
pk		Yes, sir. GEEL PIET No, no. Don't never call me sir. 'Specially in front of the guards.
pk		What should I call you?
geel piet		Piet.   Geel Piet.
coach		Kaffir.   Towels. Geel Piet assumes his submissive posture again.
geel piet		Okay, baas.    Coming, baas. He winks at PK and shuffles off.     A BELL SOUNDS.
maria		You took a big chance talking to my father the way you did.
pk		Not really. Going in I was behind on points with him. I'm English. I attend a politically suspect school. I'm a boxer.
maria		He likes boxers.
pk		All men like boxers. But not for their daughters. So I had to find some way to make an impression.
maria		You could have picked a more agreeable topic. PK And made much less of an impression. Talk to someone about their passion. Even if they disagree they'll remember you. It was really the most logical strategy if you think about it.
maria		Do you spend hours thinking about how to deal with me, too?
pk		Days. MARIA Know what I think? 
48.		You're dangerous.
maria		When I was little we would go to my grandfather's farm in the high veldt for holiday.
maria		My father would take    me   to the top of the highest hill    and   we'd play this game, 'What Do    You   See' until we ran out of things    to   see. Do you ever play that? PK No.
maria		Want to try?
pk		Sure.
maria		I see a forest. It goes      on forever. There are giant      trees which keep getting bigger     and bigger over thousands of     years. Now you.
pk		I see little trees growing on the forest floor, learning to grow with the little bit of light the big trees let in. Now you.
maria		I see the big trees getting bigger, their leaves and branches making one great green umbrella over all of Africa. The wheel stops again at its highest point.
49.		I see the sun growing weaker, giving off less light. I see the big trees dying because they cannot live without a lot of light. I see the little trees take over the forest because they learn to adapt.
maria		You tell a very good story. Her eyes sparkle, making her irresistible. PK leans forward. Maria turns her face towards him. Her lips part slightly. They kiss tenderly.
geel piet		You wear out this old man. See? See how it can work? How little beat big?
pk		Yes, sir.     But when do I get to punch?
geel piet		You not going to just punch, man. You going to combination.
geel piet		One-two. One-two. C'mon.       Now you. One-two. One-two.
50.		PK does his best to mimic.
geel piet		Oh do we have     a boxer here. Yes sir. We build      you to eight-punch combination.      The Geel Piet eight. Then you catch     afire. One-two. One-two.
pk		Try and hit me.
pk		No.   C'mon.
pk		No.   Try hard.
doc		You are amazing. PK And I'm going to learn the Geel Piet eight.
doc		Yes, yes, yes. But right now you have to come learn the Beethoven Fifth for one hour so we can get to the cactus before it's too hot to plant. Did you bring her?
pk		Parchypodium Namquanium.
doc		Excellent. Excellent. We make from you a champion and a brain.
51.		GEEL PIET  Excuse me, big baas. But can I talk to the small baas?
doc		Of course.
pk		It keeps the roots wet. GEEL PIET What happens to the leaf after?
doc		A little I use in some water to make a bug spray for the plants.
pk		And the rest we throw away. Geel Piet fidgets.   He drops his head, speaking low.
geel piet		If you leave the pail when you go plant is a problem, small baas?
pk		I don't understand.
geel piet		Is like this. You see how hard the life is for the people here in prison. Only little pleasure they take from this hard life maybe sometimes when no one watching late at night -- a little smoke. Now with the big war in Europe tobacco is plenty hard to get outside. Inside it is gone. We are the forgotten in here.
pk		We have bunches of leaves at home. I'll bring a whole bucketful tomorrow.
52.		GEEL PIET No, no.   Mustn't do that, little baas.
pk		I don't understand.
doc		What Geel Piet means is it can be dangerous. Something the guards might not want the people to have.
pk		What's wrong with tobacco? Why wouldn't they want them to have it?
doc		What's wrong is people whose job it is to punish. After a little while it is all they know how to do.
pk		What should I do?
doc		This is for you to answer.
bormann		I smell something not right here, ay, kaffir? He pokes Geel Piet with his truncheon.
geel piet		 No, meneer sergeant. Everything okay here.
doc		Schweinhund.
geel piet		No, no.  This old kaffir's okay. Sorry to make any trouble, little baas. We  just stick to the boxing now on.  Sorry, sorry.
pk		Geel Piet. Geel Piet turns.
pk		I leave my bucket on the side by Doc's toilet when I practice piano.
doc		PK, to me you are the champion of the world already. Come. Let us go box now with Mr. Beethoven.
solly		Now at the end of the Geel Piet eight you do this... one-two...  One-two-three... the Solly Goldman thirteen. Okay?
solly		That's it. That's it. Move him around. Jab jab. Slip slip. Now. PK pours it on, laying in the Geel Piet eight.   Solly is silently counting.
solly		And... one-two... one-two-three.
solly		That's it. That's it. Now work around the defense. Jab jab. The opponent becomes aggressive.   PK starts dancing, slipping punches.
morrie		How do you get away with this, Mr. G? Why don't they close you down? I mean, there are laws about blacks and white boxing each other.
solly		In a public match. Not in a gym. Not yet anyway. The Boer is a funny people. Outside the ring the black is not equal. Inside he is. But only in private, not in public. So I keep my mouth shut, the police go a little blind, and that's that. It's a crazy world, huh?
solly		Work him on the heavy bag.
55.		office and Solly closes the door.
morrie		Six, seven, eight, nine, ten. That's it.
assistant		Solly wants to see you two.
morrie		You wanted to see us, Mr. G.?
solly		Close the door.  Someone I got a lot of respect for asked me to make a request. He wants to put you in a match. MORRIE With who?
solly		A young guy just turned pro. Gideon Mandoma.
morrie		A black fighter! They want him to fight a black fighter?
solly		In a black township.   Sofiatown.
morrie		Out of the question. Not even up for discussion. C'mon, P.K.
56.		Morrie goes to exit.   PK doesn't.
pk		Who asked you to ask?
solly		The man who promotes all the fights in Sofiatown -- Elias Nguni.
pk		And you trust him?
solly		In thirty years I know him, number one on the list.
morrie		You're both out of your minds.
pk		Did he tell you why he wants the match? SOLLY I told you what he told me.
pk		Just talking boxing -- how do I match up with Mandoma?
solly		Pretty even. MORRIE I mean besides    getting thrown out of school and    into jail, do you know what else    happens you do this? He's a     pro. The minute you fight him    you're a pro.
solly		There's no purse being offered.
morrie		That's a good career move. Risk everything to gain nothing. Very sound business sense.
pk		Tell Mr. Nguni I'll think about it.
morrie		Okay.    What's going on?
pk		I don't know.
morrie		Well why don't you tell me what you do know. PK There's an African myth about an outsider who comes one day and unites all the tribes into one against their oppressors. They call it the myth of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi -- the tadpole angel. That chanting at the school championships?
morrie		For you? PK I haven't heard it in years.
pk		I told you about bringing tobacco to the prisoners at Barberton? Well after that was going for a while I learned that even though they could send and receive letters, they never did. They couldn't read or write. MORRIE So you did it for them.
pk		Right.
morrie		And after that?
pk		A clothing program for their families and a food program. One thing sort of led to another.
morrie		I can see where 'angel' would be an appropriate title.  But it was, uh, this Geel Piet who was really behind all of it, wasn't it?
pk		He was very good at pointing things out.
morrie		Man like that should be running a country, not rotting in prison.
pk		He's not in prison anymore.  He's dead.
pk		Well, you succeeded.
maria		Mr. Goldman was explaining the theory behind the left hook. MORRIE Beats talking about the weather. You may have heard about me?
59.		I'm Morrie.
maria		Oh yes.   How d'you do.
solly		Well, nice meeting you, Maria.
maria		Nice meeting you, Mr. Goldman.
solly		We never had a girl come to the gym.  It's not such a bad thing, huh? Solly moves off.
pk		You got a pass to come out on a weeknight?
maria		Your tree pass.
maria		Do you box too, Morrie?
morrie		Do I look that daft?
pk		Morrie's the brains of the operation.
morrie		He means the bank. Your boyfriend has a great head for literature but none for finance.
pk		 I see you, Nguni.
nguni		I see you, P.K.
nguni		You have heard my request?
pk		Yes.    Why do you make it?
nguni		A woman has thrown the sacred ox bones. She has made a fire and read the smoke.
pk		What did she read?
nguni		That the Onoshobishobi Ingelosi who is a chief must fight the one who one day will be a chief.
pk		But it's not true that I'm a chief.
nguni		Who knows what is true and what is not. The legend of Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is very powerful among the people. They see you box the Boer and always you win. They have heard the stories from Barberton. The people live with little hope. They must see if the spirit of the boy still lives in the man. PK And   if I lose? If the spirit of the   Onoshobishobi Ingelosi does not   exist in me anymore, then what will   they live with?
nguni		Less hope.   But still they must
61.		see.   It is our way.
morrie		I'm his manager.
62.		Nguni.
pk		I'll do it.
maria		I'm scared for you, PK.
pk		Solly's a great teacher. He wouldn't put me in a fight I couldn't handle.
marie		I mean about how involved you are with the black people. That scares me.
pk		Because you don't understand them. MARIA No I don't. PK If you did you wouldn't be so scared. You ever have a conversation with a black person? MARIA Of course.
pk		Besides a servant.
pk		You should sometime.
maria		I hate it when you tease me.
pk		Sorry.
pk		Yes I am.
maria		I better go.
lewis		According to your submission you have ambitions to be a writer and the welterweight boxing champion of the world.
lewis		Don't you   find seeking a career as a pugilist   and reading for a degree at   Oxford a bit, how shall we put it,   intellectually
64.		incompatible.
pk		Lord Byron was a boxer, sir. And I've never heard anyone question his intellectual integrity.
lewis		I do not recall Lord Byron actually engaging in matches for money.
pk		Actually, sir, there are several recorded instances of Lord Byron engaging in matches for quite large sums of money.
pk		Yes, sir.
lewis		Well, then, let us hope we'll be treated to the stirrings of another Byron.
pk		The Concerto for the Southland and the Death of Geel Piet.  His name was Geel Piet -- yellow Peter. He was a mix of half the blood in Africa -- Dutch, Portuguese, Zulu, Sotha, and who knew what else. His father
65.		deserted his mother before he was born. His stepfather threw him out to survive on the streets of Capetown when he was nine.
pk		You know every time they do that I want to jump up and say I'm just a twelve-year-old. I'm not anything else.
geel piet		To them you are. You are the one who brings the smoke, the one who writes the letters, the one who puts clothes on their children when they are cold. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
pk		But you know that's not true.
geel piet		Who is to say what is true and what is not true, kleine baas. Doc comes running up, excited, waving a newspaper.
doc		The Allied armies have crossed the Rhine into Germany. It is almost over.
pk		That's great, isn't it? He turns to Geel Piet.
doc		You are a good    faker, Geel Piet. but you don't    think it's great at all. It means     you lose your star letter writer    and tobacco importer.
geel piet		No matter that, Professor. We always manage here. What pains me most is I lose my boxer.
pk		I'll come back.
geel piet		 No, kleine baas. You leave this damn place you don't come back never. DOC Geel Piet, when a painter finishes a work of art he doesn't lose it. He sends it out in the world so everyone can see the genius of his creation. This is what you are going to do. And to celebrate the launch of such a work of art as you have made our boxer here, I have composed an entire concerto -- 'The Concerto for the Southland' -- which it is my intention to play in concert for the prisoners before I leave.
geel piet		Not possible. The kommandant never allow the people to have such a thing.
doc		He'll think it's a concert for him and the brass. But we'll know, ay? And the people will know.
pk		He'll never let black be with white here, Doc.
doc		If the black is part of the
68.		orchestra, like the piano, he will.
geel piet		But the people have no instruments in this place, big baas.
doc		They have their voices. Each tribe a different voice, a different language -- all singing together. It is brilliant, no?
pk		Except the tribes don't trust each other. They don't even talk to each other.
doc		 Oh. This is correct.    This stupid hatred.
geel piet		They will do it for you, kleine baas. You are Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. You bring the tobacco. You write the letters. You put clothes on their children's bodies and food in their bellies. All you do is ask and they all sing for you.
doc		He's right. Wunderbar.    You are the smartest of us all. Geel Piet smiles as he lifts the watering pot to exit.   A truncheon stops him. All turn to Sergeant Bormann.
bormann		A kaffir smarter than all of us? You are a strange German, Professor.
doc		That little maniac with the moustache in Berlin you admire. He is the strange German. And soon kaput, I hope.
bormann		If that's true you'll not be long for this place, eh, Professor?
69.		DOC No, Sergeant.    God willing.
bormann		And you, too, little Rooinek.     But you, kaffir, Hitler comes or goes...
bormann		You are going to stay with me.
bormann		And I will find out all your secrets once your friends are gone. One slip...
bormann		Get out of here.
bormann		You see, Professor, they are not like us. A white man would scream bloody murder.
70.		intricacies of their group's parts. They were the choral leaders responsible for teaching the others.
pk		No.
pk		Have you seen Geel Piet?
72.		DOC  He will come.
von zyl		Where is Bormann? I need Bormann to translate to the prisoners. SMIT I don't know, Kommandant. DOC Is there a problem here, Kommandant?
von zyl		I want to address these filthy kaffirs but I don't have a translator.
pk		I'll translate.
von zyl		You can speak Zulu, PK? PK Yes, sir.
von zyl		All right.   Listen up.
pk		 The Kommandant welcomes you and looks forward to the great singing.
von zyl		For such a man I am happy to do this. But one hair of trouble and it's finish.
73.		PK  He says tonight let us be one people under the African sky.
pk		Thank you, sir.
von zyl		Professor?
pk		No!
75.		voices rising to heaven above, even as her blood soaked the ground below.
lewis		Thank you very much. You will be notified as to the University's decision by mail.
lewis		Point of curiousity.
lewis		Your headmaster told me your work is somewhat autobiographical.
pk		Yes, sir. LEWIS This Bormann, he was real? PK Yes, sir.
lewis		Was justice ever served?
pk		Yes, sir. Sergeant Bormann died of cancer...  of the rectum.
pk		We have to make a stop first.
solly		The night won't last forever, boychick.
pk		It'll only take a minute. Solly puts the car in gear and drives off.
77.		Solly strains to see out his dirty windshield with the headlights as his car bumps along the unpaved road.
solly		The night I escaped from the Tsar's Army it was just like this. Six of us -- four Jews, two Ukranians. Dark as anything. No streets. In the day we hid in bushes. At night we went. MORRIE You deserted? SOLLY Whey they come take you   at thirteen years old and   tell you it's twenty-five years   in the Army, it's your duty to   desert.
solly		You said the end of the road.
nguni		Yes, yes.    Sorry. I drive. He opens Solly's door with some urgency.       Nguni sees Maria.
nguni		 Welcome, miss, welcome.
maria		Thank you.
78.		VOICES Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
nguni		The people have come from everywhere to see you.
morrie		Where are the men?
nguni		They are to be witness.
nguni		No worry, miss. It is the sound of happiness. He stops the car at a door in a high wooden wall guarded by two big men.
nguni		We are here.
morrie		I don't see why we have to weigh in. They're going to fight anyway.
nguni		It is very important the people see everything is correct.
pk		 I see you, Gideon Mandoma.
mandoma		I see you, PK.
pk		I just want you to know you fight a man. Onoshobishobi Ingelosi is just a name I was given at Barberton Prison. It means nothing.
mandoma		It is not for you or me to say what it means. An old man, one of the dignitaries says something to Nguni.
nguni		Please.
whispers		Onoshobishobi.
crowd		Onoshobishopi Ingelosi. Shobi shobi Ingelosi.
old woman		Onoshobishobi Ingelosi.
referee		You are listening to me please. When I am shouting break, you must break at once. When a knockdown is coming, it is for an eight count. No heads, no elbows. You fight clean or by golly I am giving you penalty points. Good luck, boys. PK and Mandoma touch gloves and go to their respective corners.
pk		What do you see?
solly		A very tough fight.
81.		SOLLY Watch the left hook.
solly		He's going for the quick knockout. He can't keep it up. Soon the truck runs out of gas.
pk		If he catches me again like that I'll run out of gas -- permanently.
solly		He's had it. He's got no strength in his punch.
pk		Could've fooled me.
solly		I'm telling you.
82.		Tell him.
morrie		Look -- he's taking water.
solly		See. Where that water goes -- you go. Right to here.
solly		You put your punches there, you win. You don't, you lose.
flash to:		107   PK                                                         107
referee		Three... four... five...
83.		110   REFEREE                                                        110
referee		... seven... eight... nine...
referee		How many fingers? PK Six. REFEREE Where are you?
pk		In a fight behind on points.
referee		Okay.   Continue.
morrie		We're in the shit now.      Nice knowing you, Solly.
mandoma		Onoshobishobi Ingelosi. The crowd goes wild, chanting, singing over and over as PK and Mandoma stand in center ring, arms raised.
maria		They'll think what they think and I'll think what I think.
pk		And what is that?
maria		I think I love you.
pk		I would be honored to be your escort.
pk		I'll give you a boost. PK stirrups his hands. Maria boosts up to the first branch of the tree. She crests the wall.
maria		Thank you for tonight.    You were great.
85.		toward the car.
solly		When you and your manager first came to me with that meshuganah idea to be welterweight champion of the world you did not have a big believer here. But I gotta tell you. Now you do. In London lives Benny Rosen, the greatest trainer in the world today. When you go to your Oxford I give you a letter to Rosen. Whatever I can't do for you, he can.
pk		Thanks, Mr. G.
solly		And I give the address of a very good bookmaker. Teach you also a thing or two. Now, go on back to being fancy-schmancy English gentlemen. I'm proud of both of you.
86.		for his daily constitutional.
morrie		You're up early, sir.
pk		Best time for running too, sir. MORRIE Have to put in the roadwork, sir. You know, keep those legs strong.
pk		I tripped.
both		Yes, sir.
pk		You speak English?
mandoma		Second greatest in this room.
pk		But you didn't come to talk about fighting.
mandoma		To be part of something you must know what everyone else knows. We have our own knowledge. We need yours.
morrie		We get our knowledge in schools, Gideon. We're not born with it.
mandoma		Then it must be the same with us.
morrie		You have schools.
mandoma		Yes. And teachers who cannot do more than their own ABC's. We have a system made not to teach us.
pk		 I am only seventeen years old, Gideon. I cannot teach five million people how to speak English and do sums. MANDOMA You taught the singing to thousands at Barberton Prison. You were only twelve. Mandoma rises.
pk		I'm only asking you to put what you've taught us into practice, sir.
pk		The reputation of this school, sir, is based on its integrity.
89.		ST. JOHN I'm aware of that. I'm also aware of what will happen if this ever gets out. We live in a country where the rules are being rewritten.
pk		Then we'd better be careful to keep a firm hand on our pens...  ... sir.
maria		Ready.   Set.   Go!
maria		You're supposed to let me win.
pk		Then you'd say I was being condescending. MARIA You were guilty of that when you gave me a head start.
maria		Get your formal yet?
pk		Uh... no.
maria		The dance is only a week away.
pk		Maria...  I can't come to the dance.
maria		 Why not? PK I have an obligation.
maria		Can't you change it?
pk		It's a permanent obligation. Every Saturday night...  It starts tonight.
maria		You're breaking up with me.
pk		No.
maria		Then what could be so important that it takes all your Saturday nights?
pk		I really can't say. Maria starts to cry.   She throws her arm around him.
91.		P.K., I love you.     Please don't go away.
pk		I'm not going away. MARIA Yes you are.   I can feel it.
pk		I'm not.   I'm just tutoring.
maria		I'm losing you to a bunch of kaffirs?
pk		You're not losing anything. MARIA No? Are you escorting me to the dance? Are you going to see me on the only free night they give us? PK Maria, this is important to me. MARIA And my life's important to me. Damn you.
92.		the cliff in full bloom.
doc		 Ach.   You see how beautiful? PK You ever hear of glycerine, Doc?
doc		Mr. Going-To-Oxford-Smarty-Pants. Of course I know about glycerine. Triglycerine. Biglycerine. Monoglycerine. What do you want to know?
pk		Why you don't use it. It's only a little pill under the tongue.
doc		Tongues were not made to put little pills under. When I have to start with that, I become something else.
pk		Well, until you become something else, the little pills would make this easier on your heart.
doc		Don't look at me.     Go!
doc		Exploring.
pk		Why don't you just rest?
doc		Plenty time for resting when I am something else. Look.
doc		When does a cave have wind?    This
94.		is more than some little cave, my friend.
doc		Here.   See?   There is a passage.
doc		You know the pyramids are nothing more than man's attempt to recreate the first safe home our species had -- the cave. It is the ultimate safe resting place. The first place man could lay down and have a good night's sleep without worrying about waking up as something's supper. Doc stops crawling.   So does PK.   A DRIPPING can be heard. DOC You hear that? There is something waiting for us.
pk		Let's hope it's not hungry.
doc		Better, ja?
pk		What's that smell?
pk		What's that? Doc recognizes the sound. He pounces on PK, knocking him to the floor and covering him with his body. Not a moment too soon. For a thousand bats fill the tunnel flying through.
pk		Maybe it's stopped raining. DOC Who can think about rain when you are on the edge of the great unknown cave. PK You don't know that. DOC The bats didn't come from a shoebox, Mr. Know-It-All.
doc		Sometimes I think maybe sending you off to that fancy-shmancy school was not such a good idea.
pk		It was your idea. Your'e the one who pushed for me to go. DOC Ja. But who knew they do such a good job of boxing up part of
96.		your brain.
pk		Which part is that?
doc		The one where is all the questions. The curiosity center. Look.
doc		Did I tell you?
doc		Wunderbar. The whole chamber    glistens with an eerie phosphorescence. Toward one end of    the crystallized room eight stalagmites grown up from the    floor cement to form a huge crystal slab some ten feet    off the floor. A buttress of stalg- mites drip off it    forming a natural, if uneven, stairway.
doc		How many hundreds of thousands of years to make this masterpiece? Everything outside can change, P.K. This remains the same. We are in the heart of Africa, P.K. The heart of Africa.
97.		left? Crystal. Like a crystal mummy. Incredible, ja?
pk		 Incredible.
pk		I wish we had brought the camera. Think there's enough light to shoot?
pk		Doc?
pk		Doc?
pk		This is not funny.
doc		This is incredible! The crystal. You can feel the life go right through you. Here.
doc		Come try it.
pk		 No.   That's all right.   Can we go?
doc		We have only just gotten here. What's the matter, P.K.?
pk		All day long you've been talking about becoming something else, about dying. You never talked about dying before.
doc		I'm 87 next month.   It's natural.
pk		Not to a sixteen-year-old it's not. It's painful.
pk		I'll just set you up with some coffee here, so in the morning you won't have to bother making it.
pk		I didn't mean to tell you what
99.		you can and can't talk about back in the cave today. I guess I just don't like to think of you being...  I just wish it weren't with you.
pk		Doc?
doc		P.K.?
pk		I'm here, Doc.
doc		The crystal cave will be our secret, ja? PK Whatever you say.
doc		Promise.
pk		I promise.
doc		Ja.  Good. I rest a little.  The heart of Africa, P.K.
doc		The heart.
morrie		Christ! If someone would have told me this is where I'd be on a Saturday night, last term of my senior year, I'd call them batty.  You know, you're going to owe me for the rest of your life on this one. PK That all? I figured you'd hold me to it longer.
morrie		You get the insider friend's rate. PK Thanks, mate.
101.		Gideon Mandoma, followed by 15 men and 5 women, enters.
mandoma		I see you, P.K.
pk		I see you, Gideon.
morrie		Let's get inside before the whole bloody world sees us.
mandoma		Morrie.
mandoma		You some great friend.
pk		Let's go.    Stay to the fence.
pk		All right, class.     I know you don't understand a    word I'm saying, but part of    learning a language is hearing    it spoken. So -- I am P.K.
pk		P.K.  This...  ... is Morrie. Now you all have a chalkboard.
pk		Chalk and an eraser.      I will say
102.		the letter. You will say the letter. I will write the letter. You will write the letter.
all		'A.'
pk		Excuse me. PK hurries over to Maria. Not a word needs to be spoken. Her presence says everything.
maria		I thought you might need some help. Or I can just sit and watch.
maria		'A.'
103.		PK  Say it again. MARIA 'A.'
all		'A.'
maria		'A.'     Write 'A.'
mandoma		 You are one brave Boer, Miss Maria.
maria		Thank you.
mandoma		And you are one lucky English. He kids PK.   PK blushes.
pk		Good night, Gideon. He playfully pushes Gideon out the gate and closes it. He turns to Maria and Morrie.
morrie		Well, I   think I'll go... um... lay on   my back and count the cracks   in the ceiling. 'Night. Nice to   see you, Maria.
maria		Good night, Morrie.
pk		I am one lucky English. They embrace and kiss.
maria		P.K.     Can I ask you a favor?
pk		Anything. MARIA We don't have to go in    or anything. You can hear the music    from outside. I'd love to     have one dance with you before    I graduate.
pk		Done.
maria		I feel so good. Race you to the gate.
pk		You need a headstart?
maria		No.
morrie		We made it!   We made it!
morrie		Sorry. I couldn't bear the suspense after I read mine.   I had to open it. PK looks at his letter.
morrie		Three months and we're out of here.
pk		You're out of here.
morrie		What the hell are you talking about?
morrie		A technicality.
boy		St. John wants to see you two in his study.
morrie		Good news travels fast.
pk		I'll get showered and changed.
boy		He said to come as you are. Immediately.
pk		Why?
bretyn		Because it is illegal.
morrie		We're only teaching them how to read and do sums.
bretyn		You don't have certification to do that.
pk		Prince of Wales is a certified school.
bretyn		Yes.   But not certified for that
107.		sort of thing.
pk		Can he do this, sir?
bretyn		Of course I can do it. Would I be here if I couldn't? Come now meneer headmaster. Let's end this now. I have a full day ahead of me still.
bretyn		Thank you, meneer headmaster. Your cooperation in this matter is very appreciated. Good day.
pk		You know it can't go on like this forever.
bretyn		What can't?
pk		What you're doing.
bretyn		I'm just doing my job. And if you'll take some advice, you should just do yours.
morrie		Is that really the end of it, sir?
108.		change.   It'll just get worse.
pk		History takes too long.
pk		I feel we should resist, sir.
morrie		Yes, sir.   Received notification today.
morrie		Thank you, sir.
pk		 Thank you, sir.
pk		Yes, sir.   Will that be all?
guard		Sorry. She's not allowed visitors. PK Well, if I could just talk to her.
guard		Sorry.
pk		Morrie.   Morrie.
morrie		What?
pk		I want to show you something.
morrie		What time is it?
morrie		Can I see it later?
pk		No.   Come on.
morrie		You know, when we get to Oxford -- separate rooms.
pk		Will you hurry.
morrie		Is there some girl out there waiting for me? PK Yeah. Stunning. Breasts like casabas. Just waiting for you.
morrie		Bullshit.
pk		What do you think? MORRIE I think you're fooling yourself into thinking the bastards won't
111.		come after us in here.
pk		This is a church. Didn't you ever hear of the Christian concept of sanctuary?
morrie		Yes. But I'm not the one who has to respect it.
pk		Even the Boer has limits, Morrie.
morrie		I'm sure he does, but I'd still like to see a big bolt on the inside door.
caretaker		Mr. Levy?
solly		Now move it nice and easy, the both of you. Time.
pk		They want us to close the school.
112.		MANDOMA I know.
pk		We are still game.
mandoma		So are we.
solly		Would you two find some other time to chat. This is a boxing ring, not a social club.
pk		 I was in the neighborhood. Maria puts her finger to her lips and waves him in.       PK climbs through the window. CUT TO:
maria		Next week.  I want to make love to you, P.K. PK's eyes fill with her words.     She releases him.    They look at each other.
maria		I do.
pk		So far so good.
pk		I want to thank you all for having the courage to come tonight.  Thank you.
all		 You're welcome. PK I will be teaching the first part of class tonight and Mr. Levy will teach the second. A woman whispers something to Mandoma.     Mandoma raises his hand.
pk		Gideon?
mandoma		Miss Marais.   Will she not be coming? PK Not anymore.
115.		This causes a flurry among the women.
pk		See.
pk		I see.    You see.     We see.
all		Boy.
pk		I see the boy.
all		I see the boy.
pk		Girl.    I see the girl.
all		I see the girl.
maria		P.K., it's me.
maria		I wanted to say goodbye to my students...  ... and to you.
116.		The four women in the class speak in unison.
women		We see the girl.
pk		You're violating the sanctity of the church.
bretyn		No. You are with your damned race mixing ideas, rooinek.
pk		At least let the women go. BRETYN You want everything to be equal, little Boetie. Why not men and women too? Just then Morrie throws the bolt.
morrie		Now! He goes to charge out the door, but to his chagrin the door does not open, locked from the outside.
117.		Bretyn smiles cruelly.
bretyn		Locks keep people out but they also keep them in. He has walked right up to Morrie, not taking his eyes off Morrie's for a moment. Morrie meets his gaze evenly. The moment is broken as Bretyn's baton slams into Morrie's stomach, dropping him to this knees. BRETYN Get up, you bloody commie Jew! He bangs Morrie hard in the jaw, knocking him out cold.
bretyn		Captain. The two police lines start to move towards each other, sandwiching the Africans, PK and Maria.
pk		No.    Wait.   We'll leave. BRETYN Too late. You never should have come. At the ready.
bretyn		Now.
maria		PK!
120.		 You're applying to South African universities?
pk		In case the scholarship doesn't come through.
morrie		Why are you so bloody stubborn? You don't belong in a South African university any more than I belong in the priesthood. Will you take my father's loan?
boy		There a Mr. P.K. here?
morrie		It's your scholarship. Morrie grabs the telegram.
boy		Sign here.   Odd name -- P.K. MORRIE What's your name?
boy		Waldo.
morrie		You're not one to talk about names.
morrie		What's it say?
pk		Doc's missing.
121.		PK walks through the small house followed by Commandant Von Zyl. Nothing is out of place.
von zyl		Since his pneumonia last year I've had one of the men drop by once a week to see if he needed anything. Of course you know the professor. He never did. PK looks out at the cactus garden, watered now by drip irrigation. VON ZYL At the beginning of the week he wasn't home so I decided to drop by myself. Waited a whole day here. When he didn't come back I sent search parties. After three days I sent the telegram. Seven days is a long time for him to be gone. Do you have any ideas where he went?
pk		Hello?     Mr. G?     Anyone here? SOLLY  In here.
pk		Mr. Goldman, why isn't anybody
124.		training?    What's going on?
solly		A repeat performance of history, my boy. Solly Goldman's being deported. Of course last time I didn't have the luxury of being able to pack.
pk		For what reason?
solly		Their reason is that I'm here illegal. I didn't enter the country with a passport. Like the Czar was issuing passports to Russian Jews in 1910. PK This is because of me, isn't it?
solly		No, boychick. This is because of them. They are the problem, not you. Don't ever think different. You look tired. Want a glass tea? PK No, no.   I have to get back to school.
solly		You got your head screwed on right. Don't let these meshuganahs screw it on wrong. Now go on. You want to find me, look at Benny Rosen's gym in East End, London.
pk		Thank you for everything.
solly		We're not finished yet.
marais		You're a very good writer. The subject matter is a little inflammatory but the style is interesting.
pk		What are you doing here? MARAIS I came to inform you that you will not be receiving aid from the National Scholarship Fund. Neither will you be admitted to any of the South African universities. Here are your applications back.
marais		I told you when you came to my house. I am first a member of my tribe and I will defend it any way I know how.
morrie		Take the hint. Screw the scholarship. Come on. Let's leave.
pk		If I leave or if I stay in South Africa it's because I choose to, not because they choose for me.
pk		Save my place at Oxford.
127.		The copper of the mines in Northern Rhodesia is mined below ground. All day a behemoth of a man, a diamond driller, works a stope which is like the top of a funnel.
thomas		Are you crazy?     To sign on for a year? PK You said I was the best you ever taught, sir.
thomas		And you are, boyo. The absolute best.
thomas		And let me show you what I have to show for it to this day.
thomas		And that's thirteen years after the fact, boyo.
129.		A NOISE from the doorway turns Thomas's attention. He looks over as four huge men enter, drillers, men whose faces and bodies are as hard and massive as the rock they work.
bartender		One double brandy. One...  lemon soda.
thomas		Come on, then.
thomas		On being the best damned blaster ever taught by Ian Thomas. Cheers.
thomas		Another.
thomas		Sure you don't want one?
pk		I don't like the taste.
thomas		Taste?     You don't drink for the taste.
130.		He holds out his hand. It is steady now. He fixes PK with a portentous stare. Thomas looks over at the table of drillers. The man with the headache is downing one shot after another.
thomas		Hell's comin'.
thomas		Drillers. He's got a powder pain from breathin' too much of that damn gelignite. The pain's bad enough. Mixed with a little alcohol it's fuckin' lethal.
131.		game accordingly.   Fights continually break out.
132.		blocking the street in front of him. He whirls. The others catch up behind, yelling and hooting. The two lines advance.
pk		You know, Rasputin, I had them right where I wanted them. Another minute they were done for. Rasputin claps PK on the back and addresses him in Russian, to which PK responds with a smile. The two men walk off together.
134.		CUT TO:
elijah		Baas.   Baas.
elijah		I wait for you, baas.
137.		192   INT. PK'S HUT - NIGHT                                   192
pk		Come in.
jocko		Ay, man. If you'd let him win once in a while we could take a little book on it here.
pk		He doesn't care if he wins.     He just likes to play.
jocko		And you? PK I like to win.
jocko		Which    is why I'm about visiting you.     You've come on the board, man.     There are odds on your making    it or not.
pk		How are they?
jocko		 Not in your favor, my boy.
pk		Why are you telling me this, Jocko?
jocko		When you come up on the boards, boyo, it's time to bow out. It's an omen.
pk		I bow out you can't make book. JOCKO PK, it's not a bet I want to collect.
pk		Tell me, Jocko, how high will the odds go on something like this?
jocko		The shorter your time, the higher they go. With you probably ten, twelve, thirteen to one when you're short a month. PK When the odds hit the top put me in against all bets for two hundred quid.
jocko		I did not come here to solicit your bet.
pk		I know that. I appreciate it. But if you don't take it, someone else will.
jocko		All  right. You're a bleery fool. And  I'll be prayin' every night it's  the only bet I ever have to pay  off on.
pk		And so will I. Jocko rises to exit.
jocko		You should let him win once in a while.
pk		When he wins it won't be because I let him.
pk		Checkmate.
pk		Did you hear a blast whistle?
elijah		No, baas.
cut to:		194   INT. END OF TUNNEL                                         194
elijah		 Baas.
pk		Not the first bloody thing!
elijah		Bad sign, baas. PK Bad drilling's more like it. Come on. Let's get it going.
pk		 What's the matter with them?
elijah		They say juju. Bad magic is in the mine tonight.
141.		making it back onto the bars. He carefully makes his way to Elijah as the hangup sends some pebbles down.
pk		She's playing with us tonight. Fuse set?
elijah		I stay with you, baas.
pk		That's an order.
pk		One... two... three. A MUFFLED BLAST comes from the other side of the hangup deep in the stope. PK freezes, confused, and then a SECOND BLAST goes off. The hangups starts to give. And ANOTHER BLAST.
cut to:		203   INT. LASHERS                                               203
143.		205   INT. PK'S GRIZZLY                                       205
cut to:		206   INT. HOLE                                                     206
cut to:		207   INT. BARS                                                     207
pk		 Help.   Help.
cut to:		211   PK                                                            211
jocko		Well, look at ya now, boyo. Up and at 'em in no time. And rich as a fuckin' lord.
pk		What's this?
jocko		Your ticket to ride. Two hundred quid at fourteen to one.
pk		But I didn't make it.   I'm a month short.
jocko		Not according to managment. They cashed you out at twelve months for eleven worked. Last thirty days was bonus. And until someone shows me a calendar reads different, twelve months and a year are one and the same kind of thing. And the bet was for a year. So get yourself mended and get your ass out of here.
pk		There's someone I have to see first. Jocko grows uncomfortable.
jocko		What do you want to go pressin' it for? You're rich, lad. You're whole. Why do you want to go pressin' it?
pk		Because I want to know.
jocko		Know what?   That the man has
146.		blasted so much gelignite he's permanently deranged in the attic? That even the other drillers leave the bar when the man drinks, so crazed does he get. All right. He tried to kill you. But he didn't. You're alive is all that matters. Do us all a favor, boyo. Get out of here. Get on a train and don't come back. We've no liking to be burying someone we're all so fond of.
pk		No worries. The luckier you are, the longer you last. The longer you last, the luckier you are.
rasputin		Checkmate!   Checkmate!
jocko		There's an end to everything, boyo. Even luck.
rasputin		PK. Botha.   Nyet, nyet.   Nyet, Botha. PK does not respond.
147.		Take care, my friend.
rasputin		PK.   Botha.   Nyet. Nyet.    PK.
cut to:		214   EXT. MINING TOWN                                               214
driller		Who you lookin' for? PK Botha. The driller from stope number five.
driller		He's at the bar.
pk		Thanks.
driller		I wouldn't disturb him. There's a reason he's there and we're here.
148.		ja?
pk		Is Botha the driller in there?
pk		Are you Botha?
botha		Ja.
pk		I'm PK.   I worked your grizzly.
botha		Ja. PK Why'd you try to kill me?
botha		Because I missed the first time, rooinek.
pk		Jaapie Botha.
botha		You remember, rooinek. PK Botha.     It was thirteen years ago.
botha		Because    of you they expelled me. Because    of you my father beat me. Threw me    out from the farm. Because    of you.
pk		Botha. We've made a lot of money working together. Let the past be the past.
botha		You ruined the country, all you rooineks. You come and ruin the country.
pk		No, Jaapie Botha. It's hate ruining the country. BOTHA Jaah.
botha		Our country.
150.		PK jumps out of the way at the last minute.
152.		SMASH CUT TO:
geel piet		First with the head, then with the heart. Little defeat big when little is smart.
smash cut to:		226   PK                                                           226
pk		Want to see the wages of hate? Botha feels the punches.   He steps back, faltering. PK pursues him.
pk		Here.   Here is what hate gets you.
pk		For my chicken. For Geel Piet. For Doc. For Mandoma. For Maria.
pk		For Africa.
****Dialogues from script :Precious.txt****

1.		 A line at a time, the following quote appears over a black screen.
fade in:		 1987  1   EXT HARLEM STREET  DAY                                          1  A COLD WIND blows a bright red scarf tangled high on a street lamp.  An iron waste bin is blown sideways into an intersection. A stray dog investigates it briefly, urinates and then moves on.  A book bag drops onto the pavement.  Visible from the waist down, a LARGE YOUNG WOMAN in a disintegrating leather jacket turns the waste bin upright and then maneuvers it onto the sidewalk.  Once finished, her thick hands wipe each other until they stop abruptly.  Here, for the first time, we see her PLUMP, YOUTHFUL, VACANT AFRICAN AMERICAN FACE. It is 16-YEAR-OLD PRECIOUS JONES. Something inside the bin has caught her attention.  Precious gazes down upon a soiled and tattered paperback book as the breath from her nostrils steams. The title of the book staring back up at her is unintelligible.  She pushes debris aside to get to it.  The book plunges deeper into the trash, as if trying to flee.  The sound of an ONCOMING CAR approaches.  Precious pins the book against the bottom of the bin as the sounds of the oncoming car close in.  Precious finally comes up with the book. Its title is still unintelligible. When she flips it over, however, the letters on the cover, which are facing us now, make sense. They read CRYSTAL STAIR: SELECTED WORKS BY LANGSTON HUGHES.
2.		1   CONTINUED:                                                    1 The car sounds incredibly close.
tom		 What's your name girl?
tom		What's your name?
2a.		 R2   INT. INTERMEDIATE SCHOOL 111/HALLWAY - DAY                  R2  The end of a final wave of students head to class.  PRECIOUS  Plus she say who wanna see me dancing anyway. I goes to I.S. 111. In Harlem. New York. Today I was almost late. That'd a been a problem.  Precious scurries behind them donning the red scarf and lugging her book bag.
3.		 3   INT. CLASSROOM  DAY                                             3  Precious sits in the last row behind 26 children half her size, 3 years younger and mostly African American. Noise and projectiles fill the air.  MR. WICHER -A FRAIL MAN IN A BOW TIE AND TWEED COAT, stands at the head of the class trying to establish order.  MR. WICHER Class, would you please turn to page 122 ...Class! 122!  Precious' book stays closed as the other students find the page.  TWO BOYS in front of Precious giggle boisterously at some private joke.  Mr. Wicher looks annoyed but accustomed to this.  PRECIOUS  Everyday I tell myself something gonna happen, like I'm gonna break through or somebody gonna break through to me -I'm gonna learn, catch up, be normal, sit in the front ...someday.  The giggling flares up again. Precious sneers at the boys.  MR. WICHER Today we are going to review Monday's assignment. Would anyone like to begin?  The boys get louder.
4.		3   CONTINUED:                                                 3 Mr. Wicher looks at them helplessly.  MR. WICHER Boys! ! !  PRECIOUS  I feels sorry for Mr. Wicher. He do his best but he ain't got no voice. He scared too. I feels sorry for him.  The boys break out in RIOTOUS LAUGHTER until ...
5.		3   CONTINUED:                                              3 CRASH! A desk slams against the floor. The boys whirl around to see two large hands take hold of them and snatch them out of their chairs.
precious		Shut up motherfuckers, I'm trying to learn something! Hard enuff wiffout you stupid clowns carryin' on!
precious		Stupid asses... Go on 'bout cha lesson Mr. Wicher. They ain' gonna give you no more trouble today.
6.		3    CONTINUED:                                                 3 Precious sighs.
precious		You gonna be okay Mr. Wicher?
7.		R5   CONTINUED:                                               R5 MRS. LICHENSTEIN Claireece?
precious		Am I in trouble?
precious		Am I in trouble?
precious		 Then I don't want to miss no more of maff class.
precious		My muver is busy.
8.		R5   CONTINUED:                                                R5 PRECIOUS My muver wouldn't like that.
precious		For what?
precious		That ain't fair. I ain' done nuffin! I doose my work. I ain' in no trouble. My grades is good...
9.		R5   CONTINUED:                                              R5 MRS. LICHENSTEIN Fine! If that's the way you wanna play it, we can do this all day.
precious		 No Mama, I dropped some of my thangs on the way to school.
10.		8    CONTINUED:                                                 8 A cigarette smolders between her fingers as she watches "THE PRICE IS RIGHT" on television.
precious		 Daddy?
mary		...I ain' gon' say it again.
mary		Tell them assholes to stop ringing my bell.
12.		13   CONTINUED:                                                13 PRECIOUS  No one ever ring the bell but crack addicts. I hates crack addicts. Give the ghetto a bad name.
precious		Stop ringing the goddam buzzer motherfucker!
precious		Stop ringing the goddam buzzer.
precious		Stop it!
precious		Stop it!
mary		Press LISTEN stupid.
mary		Who that Precious?
precious		White bitch from school.
13.		14   CONTINUED:                                                14 She bounces lightly to the beat.
mary		What she want?
precious		I don't know.
mary		Ask her stupid.
precious		What you want?
mary		Eighty-six that bitch.
precious		Git outa here Mrs. Lichenstein 'fore I kick your ass.
precious		Yeah.
precious		I know where that is.
15.		17   CONTINUED:                                                17 PRECIOUS Bitch.
precious		I heard you the first time.
15a.		19   CONTINUED:                                                19 Mary watches her go and then struts back to the television speaking to herself.
mary		School can't help none. Go down welfare. Who she think she is?
16.		19   CONTINUED:  Think she cute now right? Shoulda kept her mouf shut. Uppity now cause he give her more childrens than he did me. Should've kept her damn mouf shut. Stupid little pig. Who she think she is? What I'm sposed to do for cig'rettes now?
mary		Where you going?
mary		You hear me talking to you?!
ruby		Precious when we gon' play?
precious		 Ain' you s'posed to be in school?
ruby		You said we was gon' play.
precious		See, thas jus exackly why we ain' gon' be playin'. I never said nuffin like it.
ruby		Why not?
precious		Cause you a mess. Look at ya' -no style, no friends, no mama, no daddy.
ruby		So?! I ain' the only one.
precious		What you say?!
ruby		...nuffin.
precious		Thas what I thought.
ruby		I check in wif you tomorrow Precious.
boy's voice		Watch where you goin' Orca!
precious		I always be fallin like that when my mind be wanderin. Mama say I gonna fall to my death one day. Wonder what that be like?
19.		25   CONTINUED:                                                25 The boys continue to taunt her from above. Precious stares into space as if they aren't there.  CUT TO:
cornrows		Why do you say that shit when you don't mean it Trey? I'm not playing with you and I know that wasn't your damn sister neither....because you don't have one...Fine. Yeah, whatever.
precious		This the alternative?
cornrows		 The what?
precious		This the alternative?
cornrows		What exactly are you looking for?
precious		 Well what is this here?
cornrows		This is Higher Education Alternative / Each One Teach One.
precious		I'm looking for alternative school.
cornrows		This is an alternative school.
precious		What alternative is?
cornrows		What are you asking me?
21.		31   CONTINUED:                                                31 PRECIOUS Alternative. The lady from my other school tell me to come here to Hotel Theresa, nineteenth floor, it's "alternative" school.
cornrows		Each One Teach One is an alternative school and an alternative school is like a choice, a different way to do something.
precious		Oh.
cornrows		You need your discharge papers from your old school saying they have formally discharged you or we can't allow you in the program.
precious		I got kicked out 'cause I was pregnant.
cornrows		You still need formal discharge papers or we can't let you in. It's the law.
precious		Mrs. Lichenstein ain' say all that.
cornrows		Oh you're the one Mrs. Lichenstein called about.
precious		What she say?
cornrows		 Are you Claireece P. Jones?
precious		Thas me.
cornrows		Well the principal at I.S. 111 already sent your discharge papers and stuff over.
22.		31   CONTINUED:                                           31 PRECIOUS What stuff?
cornrows		Your academic record.
cornrows		Are you all right?
cornrows		Claireece?
precious		Huh?
cornrows		We had to have certain information before we could accept you into the program. So really, their sending your records over was just a way of speeding things up for you.
precious		Can I start today?
cornrows		Yup. The only other thing we need right now is income verification. Are you currently receiving AFDC?
precious		No...My muver get AFDC for me and my daughter.
cornrows		Oh, you've had amniocentesis?
precious		Huh?
cornrows		You said your mother has custody of you and your daughter?
23.		31   CONTINUED:                                             31 PRECIOUS Not this baby! I got another one 'sides this coming.
cornrows		Oh I see. Your mother has custody of you and your daughter so you're on her budget.
cornrows		Okay, well I need a copy of your mother's budget and a current phone or utilities bill, okay?
precious		I got to go get all that now?
cornrows		No, relax. We're just gonna give you a few tests -test your reading and math level, see where to place you.
precious		What's the difference?
cornrows		Well, to enter G.E.D. classes a student should be able to read on an eighth-grade level. They should score 8.0 or better on the TABE reading test.
precious		I was in ninfe grade at I.S. Ill.
cornrows		 Then you should have no problem.
24.		32   CONTINUED:                                                32 Precious sits alone behind a smattering of empty desks in a bright classroom.
25.		34   CONTINUED:                                                34 The many children seated in front of her are all blurs that gradually fade into darkness while raising their hands.
boy		Here come the wide load...
26.		CONTINUED: Precious sits with an absent look on her face and a bead of sweat on her temple. A moment later, a shadow moves over her test.
administrator		Claireece ...
administrator		Are you finished?
27.		 37   INT. 444 LENOX AVE. APT, BATHROOM - DAY                     37  ...A hand shuts off a shower .  ...A toothbrush lands in a mug .
precious		MA! !!
precious		MA! !!
precious		I need some money.
28.		39   CONTINUED:                                                   39 PRECIOUS Sumthin' to eat. My head hurt.
precious		Five dollars.
woman		What you want baby?
precious		Give me a basket please.
woman		Sides?
precious		Ain't sure. still thinkin'. Watchin' the weight you know.
precious		Potato salad! Thas it.
30.		43   CONTINUED:                                                43 The young man wipes the top of the front door and looks to be about finished.
sheila		Reggie, where you been? I've been paging your tired ass all night.
sheila		Nigga, I knew that was you. And who you running after, some fat bitch. Get your ass over here.
skinny man		You gon catch indigestion Mommie.
30a.		 47   INT. KICKIN FRIED CHICKEN - DAY                              47  Precious' notebook and pencil sit on the table where she left them.  48   INT. HOTEL THERESA ELEVATOR                                  48  Precious looks crestfallen. A glance at her watch makes it worse.
31.		48    CONTINUED:                                                  48 Her stomach GROWLS. She suddenly looks unwell.
cornrows		 ...What else would get away with clouding your mind, messin your heart and leaving the goddamn toilet seat up? Wait a minute girl....
cornrows		Each One Teach one, hold please.
cornrows		Each One Teach One, hold.
cornrows		Yeah, I'm back.
31a.		B49   CONTINUED:                                               B49 MS. RAIN, PETITE, AFRICAN AMERICAN, BEAUTIFUL, THIRTIES, ALERT EYES enters the hallway looking at her watch and then up to Precious.
precious		Yes.
32.		B49   CONTINUED:  Have a seat.  Precious looks from the distant desk to one up front and then back to the distant desk.  She sits with the other girls delicately, as if she were a visitor in a complete stranger's home.
33.		50   CONTINUED:                                                50 Ms. Rain finishes marking the roll sheet, places the cap on her pen and holds up a notebook identical to the one Precious left at the Kickin Fried Chicken.
jo ann		 I had to. Most important meal of the...
jo ann		Ooh! Hold up! wait up! Hold up! I found something!
jo ann		2000 'pologies Miz Rain but I jus' want to say, do anyone need an extra notebook I foun' in the chicken place?
precious		It's mine!
jo ann		Okay hoe. I found your Cadillac too. It's parked out front.
34.		50   CONTINUED:                                             50 Jo Ann rolls her eyes.
precious		I leff it! I did! I leff it at the Kickin Fried Chicken on Lenox tween one-two-seven and one-two-six this morning.
jo ann		...Alright girl, I was just fuckin' with you.
jo ann		What I say?!
jo ann		 When you due?
class		What?!
class		What?!
35.		50   CONTINUED:                                              50 JERMAINE Thas your real name?
jermaine		Your first name Blue?
rhonda		My name Rhonda Patrice Johnson. I was born in Kingston Jamaica ...
36.		50   CONTINUED:                                             50 RITA My name is Rita Romero. I was born right here in Harlem. I'm here because I was an addict and dropped out of school ...
jo ann		What do you do good?
rita		 I'm a good mother, a very good mother.
jermaine		My name is Jermaine. My favorite color...
rhonda		Tell us where you born first.
jermaine		 I was born in the Bronx, still live there...
rita		You come to Harlem to get away from bad influence?
37.		50   CONTINUED:                                              50 JERMAINE I'm afraid so.
jo ann		Can I go Miz Rain?
consuelo		 Favorite color? Why I'm here? What's alla dat shit?
consuelo		I don't want to.
consuelo		The first part.
38.		50   CONTINUED:  Could I skip too Miz Rain?
jo ann		I'm Jo Ann.  Hi! My favorite color is fluorescent beige. My ambition is to have my own record layer.
rhonda		Where were you born and why are you at this school?
39.		50   CONTINUED:  Everybody looking at me now. Everybody see me. I wish for back of class again...
precious		My name Claireece Precious Jones. I go by Precious. I was born in Harlem. I like yellow 'n I had a problem at my old school so I come here.
precious		...Nuffin.
precious		 I can cook and...
precious		I never...
40.		50   CONTINUED:  How does it make you feel?
precious		...Here. It make me feel ...here.
41.		51   CONTINUED:                                                   51 MS. RAIN  Complicated, complicated -Chinese journeys, 2 books, write 'n you don't know how? Dawg ...  52   INT. CLASSROOM - ANOTHER DAY                                 52  Ms. Rain writes the letter A on the board and then hands the chalk to Jermaine. Jermaine writes B and then hands it to Consuelo. Consuelo writes C and hands it to Rhonda. Rhonda writes D and hands it to Rita.  Rita takes a step and starts to cry. She drops the chalk. It shatters on the floor.  MS. RAIN We're all in this together Rita. Class?  ALL BUT RITA E!  Rita picks up the largest shard of chalk from the floor and writes E on the board. She hands the chalk to Precious and Precious writes F.  The entire class sits simultaneously and then giggles at their synchronicity.  MS. RAIN This is just the beginning. Why don't we try by ourselves? There are 26 letters in the alphabet. They all have a sound. These letters make up all the words in our language. Please open your notebooks, write the date and then let's write the alphabet.  The girls begin to write.
42.		52   CONTINUED:                                                52 Precious soon sets her pencil down, moves her hands to her stomach and looks faint. She gathers herself, catches her breath and trudges on.
precious		I can't do that Miz Rain.
precious		NO! !!
43.		53   CONTINUED:                                                53 Ms. Rain jumps.
precious		The pages ...
precious		 They all look alike to me. Always did.
precious		The words.
precious		Peoples at the beach?
44.		53   CONTINUED:                                              53 PRECIOUS Yes. A.
precious		No. I don't.
precious		D, A, Y.
precious		Ate.
precious		The!
precious		...Beach?
45.		53   CONTINUED:                                                53 Precious nods.
precious		A-Day-at-the-Shore.
mary		Bring your fat ass in here!
mary		Where you sneak your ass off to this morning?
mary		You hear me talking to you! Where you sneak your ass off to this morning?!
precious		School! I was at school!
mary		You lying whore!
precious		Am not!
mary		You is! The welfare done called here, saying they is removing you from my budget 'cause you not in regular attendance in school.
precious		Mama, I tole you I got kicked out. I been home mostly every day for two weeks.
46.		54   CONTINUED:                                                   54 MARY You didn't say nothin' `bout no damn school today.
precious		Mama, I tole you dis morning I was goin'to school.
mary		I ain' had no breakfast.
mary		...Need to forget school. Need to git your ass on down to welfare.
precious		I'm gonna get stipend for school and then...
mary		Fool fuck a stipend. What's that? I said take your ass down to welfare.
precious		Now?
mary		No stupid. Got to be there at 7 in the A.M. if you gonna talk to anybody...
mary		-Oh you too good for that? Is that what you is now, too good for welfare? 
47.		54   CONTINUED:                                                54 More white folks on 'ssistance than there is niggas Miss Onassis. Other ones got trust fund welfares from 'sploitin po dumb asses like yo dumb ass for centuries ...Man on TV say let's end 'Firmative Action. Fine wit me. And while we at it, let's take out son-in-laws, country clubs, white motherfuckers and then call it a day.
mary		Now hurry yo ass up. I'm gon die of starvation over here. Then where you be at then?
mary		What you gon' have?
precious		I ain' hungry. I ...
mary		Yes you is.
precious		But Mama I ...
mary		Sit your ass down.
mary		Jus make mine after you done. This gon' get cold if it sit.
48.		55   CONTINUED:                                                     55 PRECIOUS But I thought you said you was hongry?
mary		Do what I say don't say what I say. Now eat bitch!
mary		...Best feed like a pig and not a cow so's you can git yo ass back to the stove. If I croak off starvation, where in the world you be at then?
49.		57   CONTINUED:                                                57 She giggles uncontrollably. The hand belongs to Tom Cruise. He wears a leather jacket with a cherry red motorcycle helmet tucked under one arm. The helmet has a golden bow stuck on its crown.
precious		What do you want me to say?
precious		I wish I had a TV in my room.
precious		No... My muver is a like a whale person for the couch. She says I eat alla time, but then she always makin' me eat... and then call me a fat mess.... She says apartment is little because of me.
50.		58   CONTINUED:                                                58 She only leaves the house to play the number. Sometimes I feel I could just sit there wif her everyday wif the shades drawed, watch TV, eat, watch TV, eat. Can we talk about something else now?
precious		I don't know much more than you do Miz White...
precious		He say he the original man like Farrakhan be saying but little do he know about it. He give me this baby comin and my other one before. Thas all I know. Don't see him. Don't need to I guess.
precious		 ...Nuffin.
precious		No I didn't neitha. If you heard that, then you heard sumthin' else cause I ain' said nuffin like it!
precious		Now whas next?
51.		58   CONTINUED:  My grandmuver Toosie, brangs Little Mongo over on days social worker come so it look like Mongo live wif us. Then my mama get the check 'n food stamps for me 'n Little Mongo. But it's my baby. Little Mongo is money for me, not her!
precious		...Sometimes I see vampires too. They come for me sometimes and they say that I am one of them. They say, "Precious, you belong wif us."
precious		I say, "Check wif my muver." After that, they just look at me and go down through the floor. The family downstairs is vampires so that's where they should go.
precious		I'm going to the doctor now too. It's nice. Miz Rain, she fall out when she finded out that I ain' been to no doctor. Whole class scream 'preenatal' at me. They don't know I had my first baby on the kitchen floor wif my muver kicking me upside my head. I mean, who would believe?
precious		Them the kind of thangs you mean when you say talk about whatever come into my mind?
53.		61   CONTINUED:                                                61 Tired of lying I guess. Hope mama don't find none of it out. She kill me for real cause that be tha end of them welfare checks.  62   EXT STREET - DAY                                          62  The girls burst into frame followed by Ms. Rain and Cornrows and then bound up a large number of steps leading into THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART.  63   INT. METROPOLITAN MUSEUM PERMANENT EGYPTIAN ART COLLECTION 63  Led by a spirited guide and trailed by Ms. Rain and Cornrows, the girls scrutinize colossal tombs, various artifacts, hieroglyphics and photographs.  PRECIOUS  Guide lady smart. Say dis the first civilization of the Earf. Black folks, first!  Jo Ann poses like an Egyptian hieroglyphic. Consuelo examines her nail polish.  64   INT. CLASSROOM -DAY                                       64  Ms. Rain writes briskly across the blackboard.  As she makes her way across the frame, a barrage of letters and numbers peel off the board, fly across the room, converge and enter Precious' forehead.
54.		64   CONTINUED:                                                64 Just before the letters and numbers reach Precious, lifelike holographic images flank them. They are SPINNING PLANETS, FLYING PTERODACTYLS, STAMPEDING ELEPHANTS, EMMETT TILL, MLK, JFK, MALCOLM X, CIVIL RIGHTS MARCHERS, FIRE, TIDAL WAVES, A VOLCANIC ERUPTION, CONTINENTS, MATHEMATICAL EQUATIONS, LIGHT BULBS AND THE INVERTED WORDS "JANIE", "SULA" AND "CELIE" ...  A few letters, numbers and images try to reach Jo Ann but most just bounce off of her and fall away. Consuelo bats a few mathematical symbols off as if they were flies.  Finally we land on Precious as she confidently stabs her hand into the air to answer a question.  65   INT. CITY BUS - DAY                                          65  Precious rides on one of the side seats towards the back while wearing her red scarf.  The New Yorkers surrounding her are all men of various backgrounds. All wear the exact same suits and raincoats.  Precious looks up to find two of the businessmen staring down at her.  We pan from them and around the bus to find all of the other passengers studying Precious in silence as well.  PRECIOUS  If other peoples could see that the way I do, they would see that I am a real person inside.  Our long circular pan finally lands on Precious' seat but sitting there now is the pretty blond white girl from Precious' bedroom mirror wearing Precious' clothes.  The bus grinds to a stop.  A man smiles at Precious and steps off the bus.  The original Precious takes the abandoned newspaper from his empty seat and tries to read it.
55.		65   CONTINUED:                                                   65 Precious stops to watch two "society" ladies in hats and gloves push antique buggy style baby carriages along the sidewalk.  PRECIOUS  Mama say this new school ain' shit tho. Say you can't learn nuffin' writing in no book. Gotta git on that computer you want to make some money. But Mama wrong about that.
56.		66   CONTINUED:                                                 66 I is learning. Gonna read to dis baby too and hang colors on its walls.
57.		 69    INT. HOSPITAL - NIGHT                                      69  PRECIOUS  His name Abdul Jamal Louis Jones. He healthy. His muver love him.  John, the nurse who helped gurney Precious in, again stares down warmly at her. This time with Abdul in her arms.
precious		I win.
john		That hurt girl.
precious		Get to X-Ray.
john		 Maybe I will.
precious		You gon have to if you don't practice.
john		Alright.
58.		70   CONTINUED:                                                   70 John exits.  The girls from class ogle him from another part of the room as he leaves and then nudge and bicker with each other for pole position to hold Abdul.  PRECIOUS  I think a beautiful young girl like you should have a chance to get an education. I think your first responsibility has to be to yourself. You should not drop out of school ...  73   INT. HOSPITAL - DAY                                          73  Precious reads from her journal.
59.		73   CONTINUED:                                                  73 MS. RAIN  Dear Miz Rain...
60.		75   CONTINUED:                                                75 MS. RAIN  Dear Precious, When you are raising a small infant you need help. Who is going to help you? How will you support yourself? How will you keep learning to read and write?
61.		 79    INT. 444 LENOX AVE. APT. - DAY                            79  We drift towards Mary, at one with the couch, watching television. One hand holds a cigarette while the other mines an enormous bag of potato chips elbow-deep.  Her greasy mouth remains occupied with either a cigarette, a potato chip or both at all times.  PRECIOUS  Dear Precious Miss, When you get home from the hospital, look and see how much welfare has helped your mother.
61a.		83   CONTINUED:                                               83 RUBY Hi Precious. You back? That your new baby? What it's name? Can I hold it? ..Precious?  Ruby can only watch as Precious disappears into the stairwell.
62.		83   CONTINUED:                                                83 Signs on the elevators read "OUT OF ORDER".  84   INT. 444 LENOX AVE. STAIRWELL - DAY                          84  Precious climbs the stairs growing short of breath holding Abdul, her bags and her coat folded over one arm.  Once on the landing, she searches for her keys while trying to balance Abdul and everything else.  After turning several locks, she pushes into the apartment...
mary		Bitch!!!
precious		MAMA! ! !
precious		MAMA! ! !
63.		85   CONTINUED:                                                 85 Precious turns her back to shield Abdul. The pot strikes her in the back. ABDUL SCREAMS louder. Dirt covers Precious.
precious		STOP IT MAMA! YOU GON CRAZY?!!!
mary		FIRST YOU STEAL MY HUSBAND, THEN YOU GET ME CUT OFF THE WELFARE YOU STUPID-MOUTH BITCH!
precious		I AIN'T STEAL NUFFIN FROM YOU MAMA! YOUR HUSBAND RAPE ME AND I NOT STUPID!
mary		YOU IS! YOU IS TOO! YOU IS AND YOU ALWAYS GON BE NUTHIN BUT STUPID TIL THE DAY YOU DIE! YOU HEAR ME?!! STUPID!!!
precious		SHUT UP MOMMA! I NOT STUPID! I AM NOT STUPID! DON'T SAY THAT!
mary		I'M GON KILL YOU PIG!
precious		I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU DIDN'T ALREADY. YOU CRAZY BITCH!
63a.		 86   INT. 444 LENOX AVE. HALL OUTSIDE PRECIOUS APT - DAY       86  Precious dashes out of the apartment with tears in her eyes, dirt on her clothes, no coat and Abdul SCREAMING IN HER ARMS.  A little OLD WOMAN stands in the hallway shaking her head in disgust.  MARY  YOU HEAR ME PRECIOUS! GET YOUR BIG, BLACK ASS BACK IN HERE!
64.		86   CONTINUED:                                                86 Precious looks back, trips on the landing and tumbles down a flight of steps cradling and shielding Abdul all the way.
ruby		Precious what happened?
ruby		Precious, could I see your baby now? I just wanna see.
ruby		Precious, what's wro...
65.		 89   EXT. STOREFRONT CHURCH - DAY                                 89  She hears the sound of a choir. She approaches the Church Basement where the voices are coming from.  Precious stares through the window where Choir members are praising The Lord.  90   INT. 444 LENOX AVE. APT. - DAY                               90  Mary barrels into Precious' bedroom yelling and screaming as she turns the place upside down.  She rips down Precious' handprints along with her Cyndi Lauper poster. She then picks up a brush and hurls it into Precious' mirror, shattering it to pieces.
precious		I need to see Nurse John. Where Nurse John at?
nurse		He's on break. He'll be back soon. Have a seat.
nurse		Hey...You don't remember me do you?
66.		93   CONTINUED:                                                93 Precious looks up to find A SOUR-LOOKING WOMAN glaring down at her.
nurse		I delivered your last one.
nurse		You know I'm sorry to see you back here.  I remembered hoping that you would have learned from your mistakes.
precious		You don't know me bitch. Get lost 'fore I kick your ass.
precious		Bitch?
precious		I ain't make no mistake unless it was being born.
john		What happened?
precious		My Mama kick my ass again. I ain' giving Abdul away. And I ain' gonna stop school ...I just...ain't.
67.		93   CONTINUED:  Nurse John say lots of people get out of hospital wif no place to go. His eyes look worried tho ...Wonder what next? Scared now.  95   INT. VAN - NIGHT                                                 95  Precious rides in darkness cradling Abdul. She looks up frightened, taking in the others sitting around her. Shes hold Abdul closer. The dark swallows her whole.  DISSOLVE TO:  96   INT. ARMORY - NIGHT                                              96  Bare light bulbs hang from the ceiling.  Precious lays on a bed breast feeding Abdul and staring up at the ceiling while covered in a blanket.  We sail away to find they are surrounded by scores of rudimentary beds, many of which are filled with other women of varying ages.
68.		96   CONTINUED:                                                96 A BUG LADY lies next to her with unkempt hair and sores on her skin.
bug lady		 ...Put your bags in bed with you. Put your bags in the bed with you. Put 'em in. Tuck 'em in bed with you...
bug lady		Give the chile back her blanket!
ferocious woman		Fuck you. I ain' giving back shit.
precious		 Now   I know my ABC's, tell me what you   think of me.
69.		96   CONTINUED:                                            96 FADE IN
precious		Where my baby?! Where my baby at?!
70.		 A99   INT. ELEVATOR - HOTEL THERESA - DAY                         A99  Ms. Rain, at work a little earlier than usual this morning, looks great, and ready for another day.
70a.		101   CONTINUED:                                               101 PRECIOUS  I feels really sorry for her. She just a ABC teacher, not no social worker. But she all I could think of.
rhonda		Hi Precious!
jermaine		What happened?
71.		101   CONTINUED:                                            101 They start for Abdul immediately.
rhonda		How old you is?
jermaine		Same age as you.
rhonda		When your birthday?
jermaine		When yours?
rhonda		I asked you first.
jermaine		So ...
71a.		103   CONTINUED:                                               103 Ms. Rain slams the phone down, shakes her head, finds another number on the wall and then dials again while speaking to Precious.  MS. RAIN Before this day is up, you will have a place to live Precious.  Ms. Rain suspends her frustration with a brief smile as she waits for the other end of the line to pick up.
rhonda		 Jo Ann, you late.
jo ann		You ain't the teacher.
rhonda		I am today. Miz Rain busy wif Precious.
jo ann		 How Precious?
precious		They have ...something. It's an immediate opening and it's in Queens.
precious		Queens?
precious		 I don't really know Queens.
73.		105   CONTINUED:                                               105 Ms. Rain takes an organizer from her bag, looks for another number and picks up the phone.
woman's voice		Hey Precious.
precious		Hi Miss Lisa.
cornrows		 How you been?
precious		Good. How you been?
cornrows		I don't know... I went to see that movie Barfly last night... That piece of shit was depressin...Cute kid.
precious		Thanks.
73a.		106   CONTINUED:                                                106 MS. RAIN  Come on   Precious.  Precious and Ms. Rain walk back to her classroom.
74.		107   CONTINUED:                                               107 RITA How do you spell "Aquarius"?
jo ann		What you want to spell that for?
jermaine		A-Q-U-A-R-I-U-S.
rita		Is that right?
jermaine		Of course it's right. I'm one of `em.
consuelo		I wonder can you spell "boy" then.
jermaine		I wonder can you spell "slut" then.
consuelo		Maybe, but I bet Miss Lisa can.
katherine		Honey, how many times did I tell you about the music?
katherine		 You must be Precious. Hi.
precious		Huh?
precious		...Oh...
76.		109   CONTINUED:                                                   109 KATHERINE  What's his name? He's adorable.
precious		This Abdul.
katherine		He looks just like you.
precious		Thanks.  Y'all really married?
katherine		...Ask yourself. Just ask yourself; if Ronald McDonald were running the show and the price of hamburgers skyrocketed, wouldn't you be suspicious?
katherine		Who's gonna read it?
katherine		What do you write about Precious?
precious		I don't know. Stuff in my life. Abdul.
77.		110   CONTINUED:                                                  110  How come y'all don't like McDonalds?
precious		Y' all watch Oprah?
77a.		110   CONTINUED:  Miz Rain the one who put the chalk in my hand, make me queen of ABC's.
78.		110    CONTINUED:                                               110 Precious smiles back with gratitude and great affection.  111    EXT. MS. RAIN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                           111  Ms. Rain and Katherine continue dancing in the window as Precious observes.  The evening cityscape sparkles around them.
78a.		112   CONTINUED:                                               112 John hands Precious a giftwrapped present. She shakes it and then opens it.  It is a leather bound journal with blank pages. Precious flips through it.
79.		112   CONTINUED:                                            112 PRECIOUS Thanks Nurse John.
john		You're welcome. What are you gonna do with your award money?
precious		I owe the chicken place for a bucket that I swiped last year. Thas first. After that, get some thangs for Abdul.
john		You know Blu?
precious		Miz Rain?
john		Yeah.
precious		Like dis.
john		Well she has, has she uh...got a man?
precious		...No.
john		Well I was hoping you could put in the good word.
precious		The good word...wif Ms. Rain?
john		Yeah, that's what I'm trying to say.
precious		You ain't her type.
cornrows		 Hold on girl.
precious		Miss Lisa this Nurse John. Nurse John this Miss Lisa.
john		Hi ...How are you?
81.		114   CONTINUED:                                                 114 PRECIOUS Miz Rain?
precious		Not yet. I forgot to say thank you for my party.
precious		I ...No...
precious		Well, I was thinking...
precious		You talk to us girls in the class when we be working out problems and thangs and stuff, right?
precious		Well, who do you talk to?
precious		 Or you probably don't have no problems so...
82.		114   CONTINUED:                                               114 PRECIOUS Ms. Rain, some folks just got it made in the shade.
precious		Oh, okay...I didn't have nobody to really speak wif for a long time. I know how that be sometimes so thas why I asked cause almost evrybody need a little help once in a ...
precious		 Well ...only that -well, evrybody need a little help once in a ...
precious		 I jus ...
precious		 I just thought that if you might need some ...
precious		 ...Yes.
83.		114   CONTINUED:                                               114 Precious looks both confused and relieved. Ms. Rain sits while motioning for Precious to do the same.
precious		 Me? I never...
precious		Nuffin?
precious		...For real?
precious		I jus help you finish up first. I got some time.
84.		114   CONTINUED:  In a book I read, a lady escaped to a 1/2 way house. And the lady, she asked the people there just what a 1/2 way house was. They tole her, you is 1/2 way between the life you had and the life you want to have ...Thas nice. That also mean I can't stay here forever and that there is still a ways to go. It be something to get apartment of my own.
precious		Come in...
chelsea		Precious ...you have a visitor.
precious		Thas Rhonda. She always early.
86.		118   CONTINUED:                                               118 PRECIOUS I should've said 4 'cause then that way...
chelsea		It's not Rhonda.
mary		Your daddy dead.
precious		...Is that all?
87.		120   CONTINUED:                                               120 MARY No.  Carl ...Carl had that AIDS virus.
precious		... You got it?
mary		Got what?
precious		The AIDS virus.
mary		No.
precious		How you know?
mary		We never did, you know...
precious		No, I don't know Mama.
mary		We never did what you got to do to get it.
precious		He never been wif you?
mary		Yeah...but not like faggots, in the ass and all, so I know.
88.		120   CONTINUED:                                               120 Precious sighs.
precious		You better go to the doctor Ma.
mary		You welcome back home.
precious		I'm home here.  I better go see 'bout Abdul and do homework.
89.		122   CONTINUED:                                                 122 From this distant view, it appears as if she is almost walking in place.
rita		I don't know Miz Rain.
90.		125   CONTINUED:                                                  125 MS. RAIN Precious?
precious		Nurse say I am H.I.V. positive.
precious		I don't have nuffin to write today and I don't hate no one. Not even my muhver. My head is all dark inside so I don't have nuffin to write today...Maybe nuffin never.
91.		125   CONTINUED:                                              125 Still trying to stay composed, Precious wipes her face.
rhonda		Your baby okay?
precious		Yeah. He good...Won't bress feed him no more to be safe.
precious		What for? How?! I feel like I am drowning inside a giant river Miz Rain. Thas what...
precious		FUCK YOU! YOU DON'T KNOW NUFFIN WHAT I BEEN THROUGH!!! I NEVER HAD NO BOYFRIEND! MY DADDY SAY HE GONNA MARRY ME BUT HOW HE DO THAT, FUCKING ME ILLEGAL? I NEVER BEEN NO CHILD! NOT EVEN ONE DAY!!!
92.		125   CONTINUED:                                            125 A moment later, Ms. Rain walks calmly across the room, retrieves the journal and places it back on top of Precious' desk.
precious		 I'm tired Miz Rain!
precious		Nobody love me. Thas a lie.
precious		Please don't lie Miz Rain! Love?! Me?! Love rape me, beat me, call me animal, get me sick and make me feel wurfless. I had enough love.
precious		 No.
93.		125   CONTINUED:  Some things is hard to say and maybe not your business no way but Rhonda's brother rape her for years and when her muhver fine out, she throw Rhonda out her house.  As we watch Rita smiling...
94.		126   CONTINUED:                                               126 PRECIOUS  Rita's daddy kill her muhver in front of her eyes and Rita been out on the street selling herself since
precious		I do.
95.		127   CONTINUED:                                               127 PRECIOUS  Tired of this lady asking me questions. Miz Rain say talk anyway but Miz Weiss just a spy for the State who write reports on me undercover. Reports go in file. File say what I could get, where I could go and if I could get cut off and kicked out of Advancement House.
precious		Nothing.
precious		I don't know. It's sort of hot in here I guess.
precious		A soda sounds nice ...please.
precious		I don't care.
precious		Orange.
96.		127   CONTINUED:                                              127 MS. WEISS Back in a jiffy.
precious		Thank you.
precious		Really?
97.		131   CONTINUED:                                               131 PRECIOUS I don't know. I never really thought about it before.
precious		'I have just finished a session with Claireece Precious Jones, an eighteen-year-old African American female. According to her teachers at Each One Teach One where she attends school she is a pen-, phen-
jermaine		... 'phenomenal'
precious		...success. Having made strides so tre-men-tremendous in the past year, she was given the mayor's award for outstanding achievement. She seems actively en...engaged in all aspects of the learning process. However, her TABE test scores are disappointingly low... ' Not to Miz Rain! Not to Miz Rain!  'She scored 2.8 On her last test.' So what! Miz Rain-
jermaine		Get a grip and gon' read the report and don't get all emotional about what this silly hoe got to say. Anyway, if your shit wasn't dope you wouldn't be standing up here readin' -what, what's her name 
98.		132   CONTINUED:                                                 132 Ms. Weiss. What Ms. Weiss got to say.
precious		'She will need at least an 8.0 Before she can enter G.E.D. Class and begin work toward her high school e-q...equivalency.'
jermaine		...Nice.
precious		Thanks.  'Abdul is the client's second-born child. He's from all outwhere...
jermaine		'outward'...
precious		'Appearances, a healthy and welladjusted toddler. Precious attends to his needs a-s-s-i-d-u-o-s-l-y...
precious		... 'and with great affection and ee... '
jermaine		'eagerly'
precious		... 'seeks any and all information on child rearing. The time and resources it would require for this young woman to get a G.E.D. or into college would be considerable'...
99.		132   CONTINUED:                                             132 PRECIOUS Finish reading this ...I know what's coming.
jermaine		'Although she is in school now, it is not a job readiness program. Nonetheless, Claireece is capable of going to work. In January, her son will be two years old. In keeping with the new initiative on welfare reform, I feel Claireece would benefit from any of the various workfare programs in existence. Despite her obvious intellectual limitations she is quite capable of working as a home attendant.'
precious		I don't want to be no motherfucking home attendant! I wanna be...
jermaine		Hush! 'My rapp-o-r-t with Precious is minimal. Although I am not sure with whom, she evidently has access to counseling services provided by Each One Teach One. She has a history of sexual abuse and is H.I.V. positive.'
precious		She say she not put that in my file! Bitch!
jermaine		That's the bitch's job, to get the mofuckin' goods on you!  'The client seems to view the social services, AFDC, as taking care of her forever.'
precious		 That file do show one thing -that
100.		132   CONTINUED:                                            132 this hoe don't know nuffin wurf knowing about Claireece Precious Jones.
precious		I'm getting my G.E.D., a job, and a place for me and Abdul, then I go to college. I don't want to 'home attend' nobody!
jermaine		You better put this shit back before you get in trouble. We talk about it with Ms. Rain in the morning.
101.		135   CONTINUED:                                               135 MS. RAIN Time is up. Does anyone want to share?
precious		I don't really want to read all I wrote, I jus' wanna kinda say what it is I'm writing about and how it came about.
aisha		What happened?
precious		Well, to make a long story short, the counselor at Advancement House quizzing me about Mama and Daddy etc., etc. But it's really about workfare. She want to send me out as home attendant.
rhonda		How you know?
precious		Cause I stole my file from Advancement House and read it.
jo ann		Next time get mine's too.
precious		All this 'What you wanna be?' And 'You can talk to me.' They ain' no motherfucking therapists on our side, they just flunkies for the 'fare. I wanna work, but not for no motherfucking welfare check in Central Park -displacing brothers and sisters who really got jobs cleaning up 'cause I'm there working for free.
102.		135   CONTINUED:                                          135 JERMAINE And what kinda shit is it for someone like Precious to have quit school before she get her G.E.D. to work at some live-in job for some old-ass crackers. She'll never make a rise she get stuck in some shit like that!
precious		Miz Rain, If I didn't steal that file I wouldn't know what I was facing!
precious		Yeah...basically.
jo ann		Rhonda home attend. Say old bitch would ring a bell when she want Rhonda in the night!
jermaine		Rhonda used to have to go all the way out to Brighton Beach where she work for them people.
precious		The people had her there all day and night - 'on call' they call it. But you only get pay for 8 hours so that's 8 X $6.37  = $50.96 a day, but then you is not really getting that much cause you is working more than eight hours a day. You is working 24 hours a day
103.		135   CONTINUED: 
jo ann		Rhonda say old bitch would ring a bell - a actual bell -when she want Rhonda in the night!
precious		Home attendants usually work six days a week. I would only see Abdul on Sundays? When would I go to school?  Am I gonna hafta go be home attendant like Rhonda was?
precious		 Well, I just write in my notebook till I get wif some kinda therapist I can trust. Actually that always help me more than talking to her. Plus, I'm going to start going to meetings wif Rita for insect survivors.
bunny		Incest.
precious		That's what I mean.
bunny		Well it ain't what you been saying.
precious		What's the big deal?
bunny		One's where your family molest you, the other is like a roach or bugs.
104.		135   CONTINUED:                                              135 MS. RAIN Precious, have you ever had your hearing tested?
precious		No. I never really had nothing tested...nothing like that. Glasses is what I really want so my eyes don't hurt when I be reading at night.
105.		139   CONTINUED:                                                139 IRENE Hello and welcome to our Tuesday night beginner's meeting...My name is Irene. I am an incest survivor...
precious		I was raped by my father and beat by my mother ever since I could remember anything at all. Raped and beat by both.
106.		139   CONTINUED:  Never said alla that before...
precious		Anyway, thas all I'd like to say for today. Thank y'all for letting me share...
precious		...How you get your hair like that?
miriam		Oh, you like it? I do yours one day if you want. That's what I do - fix people's hair and makeup.
precious		Thank you Miriam.
107.		140    CONTINUED:                                                    140 RITA  Sheila Hewitt, Ms. Rubenstein is ready for you.
107a.		R141   CONTINUED:                                              R141 SHEILA  Clareece Precious Jones!   Mrs. Weiss is ready for you.  Precious stands up and looks down at Ruby, sulking in her chair. She leans down, gives her a big hug and tenderly fixes Ruby's hair.  Precious walks off toward the stairs, but stops when she passes a mirror hanging on the wall. Within the reflection, she sees her true self for the first time.
108.		R141   CONTINUED:                                         R141
109.		R141   CONTINUED:                                           R141 Precious turns around to find that Ruby has grabbed her arm. She then reaches up and hugs Precious tightly.
mary		'Buse?
mary		There was no drugs in ma house! No drugs! 'Cause Precious know damn well I whoop her ass bright blue if she bring some drugs in ma...
mary		Why'nt you say dat? Dat?! Okay. When it first start?
110.		143   CONTINUED:                                               143 You've been calling here saying you want to be reunited with your daughter and grandson and that you want them to come home. Well I think you'd better explain just what happened in that home.
mary		...Well, I, Precious b'long at home cause I'm a good mother. She had everything. I done tole her that. Pink 'n white baby carriage, little pink bootie socks, dresses; everything I put on her pink. Precious, she so smiling and healthy. A day don't go by I don't throw her wheeling in the air. I take her up and down 125th Street. Me 'n Carl loved Precious. I dreamed of the day we was gonna you know, git married, git house wif grass, color TV's in all the rooms. Precious, She born about the same time as Miz West son that got kilt. You remember him don't you Precious?
mary		He born summertime 'bout same time as you.
precious		I was born in November...far as I know.
mary		Yeah yeah thas right. My little Scorpio chile! Scorpio's crafty. I ain' sayin' they lie, jus' you cain't always trust 'em.
111.		143   CONTINUED:                                            143 MARY When? I don't know when it start. When I remember it? She still little. Yeah, around three maybe. I give her a bottle. I still got milk in my bresses but not from her but from Carl sucking. I give him tittie, Precious bottle. Hygiene, you know?
mary		Huh?
mary		I bottle her, tittie him. Bottle more better for kidz. Sanitary. But I never git dried up 'cause Carl always on me. It's like that you know. Chile, man -a woman got bofe. What you gonna do? So we in bed. I put her one side of me on pillow, Carl on other side of me. Ms. Weiss looks as if she's stopped breathing. I think thas the day IT start. So he on me. Then he reach over to Precious! I say Carl what you doing! He say shut your big ass up! This good for her. I say stop Carl stop! I want him on me! I never wanted him to hurt her. I didn't want him doing anything to her. I wanted my man for myself -to sex me up, not my chile. Me God damn it! So you cain't blame all that shit happen to Precious on me. I love Carl, I loved him. He her daddy but he was my man!
mary		Lady from Each One Preach One say she got poems too. In fact...
precious		That's enough Mama. That's ... enough.  I forgive you too.
precious		...but I'll never see you again. Not even if you dead.
precious		 Stay down Mama.
precious		I forgive you too. I can tell right now that you ain't qualified for dis kind of mess.
precious		I took the TABE test again. This time it's 7.8. Last time it was
113.		144   CONTINUED:                                                    144 According to the test, I'm reading around 7th or 8th grade level now. High school level next. College after that.  MS. WEISS ...Why congratulations Precious. That's ...  Precious stands abruptly, startling both women. She takes a step towards her mother. Mary winces. Ms. Weiss looks concerned.  MS. WEISS Precious, perhaps it's best if you remain seat...  Precious leans and kisses Mary tenderly on the cheek, turns and gently touches Ms. Weiss' shoulder.  Precious takes a good look at them both, smiles and leaves the room.  MS. WEISS  Precious!  Precious doesn't stop.
****Dialogues from script :Predator.txt****

philips		 You're looking well, Dutch.
schaefer		It's been a long time, General.
philips		 We've got a real problem here, something right up your alley.
philips		Eighteen hours ago I was informed that one of our choppers, transporting three presidential cabinet members from this charming little country, was shot down...  Here.
schaefer		That's over the border, General.
philips		 We're certain they've been captured by the guerrillas.
schaefer		 What have you got in mind, General.
philips		We figure we've got less than twenty-four hours to catch up with them.  After that, there's not much hope.  We want a rescue operation mounted tonight.  That doesn't give you much time.
philips		You lift off in three hours.  There's one other thing.
schaefer		What's that, General?
philips		Someone else will be going in with you.
schaefer		You know we don't work with outsiders, General.
voice		 Who said anything about outsiders, Dutch?
dillon		Last time we danced, it was Lieutenant, Schaefer.
schaefer		Dillon, you son of a bitch.
dillon		 How you been, Dutch?
schaefer		You've been pushing too many Pencils, Dillon.  Had enough?
dillon		 No way, old buddy.
schaefer		You never did know when to quit.
dillon		That piece of work you guys pulled off at the Berlin embassy last week was really something.  Blew the entry points on three floors and neutralized the opposition in eight seconds flat. Beautiful.
schaefer		Like the old days, Dillon.
dillon		Also heard that you passed on that little job in Libya.
schaefer		Wasn't my style.  We're a rescue unit, not assassins.  This must be good.  Big shot from the CIA, leaves his desk to come back to the bush. What's so important?
schaefer		Go on.
dillon		The set-up is simple, Dutch. One day job.  We pick up their trail at the chopper, run 'em down, grab the hostages and bounce back across the border before anyone knows we were there.  You've done it a hundred times.  Nothing out of the ordinary.
schaefer		And nothing we can't handle alone.
dillon		Not to worry, Dutch.  I haven't lost my edge.  They've got a head start on us in some real tough country, otherwise, believe me, it's a piece of cake.
philips		Gentlemen, we're losing time.  Good luck, Major.
pilot one		 Redbird Two, Two.  Bearing south, three, five, zero, one o'ckock on the saddle ridge. Over.
pilot two		 Roger, Blue Leader.  Three, five, zero, on your move. Over.
hawkins		 Hey, Billy, how many marines does it take to eat a squirrel?
hawkins		Two.  One to eat it and one to watch for cars.
ramirez		 Get that stinkin' thing out of my face, Blain!
blain		...bunch of slack-jawed faggots around here...  ...make you a God-damned sexual ty-ran-toe-sore-ass... just like me.
dillon		 Our rendezvous points and radio freqs. are indicated and fixed.  AWACS contact on four hour intervals.
schaefer		Who's our back-up on this?
dillon		 No such thing, old buddy. It's a one way ticket. Once we cross that border, we're on our own.
schaefer		This gets better by the minute.
dillon		 Man, that's a real bad habit you've got.
dillon		 You don't know how much I missed this, Dutch!!!  Once you get this in your blood, you never get it out!!!
schaefer		You never were all that smart...let's go!!!
ramirez		The pilots have each got one round in the head.  And whoever hit it stripped the shit out of it.
schaefer		Took 'em out with a heat seeker.
schaefer		Mmmnnn...?
ramirez		I don't think that was any ordinary army taxi...
ramirez		...looks more like a surveillance bird to me.
schaefer		Billy's on it.  Heat seeker.  Pretty sophisticated for half-asses mountain boys.
dillon		They're getting better equipped every day.
billy		Major, looks like there were ten, maybe twelve guerrillas.  Looks like they took some prisoners from the chopper.  Then a different set of track, over there.
schaefer		 What do you mean?
billy		Six others, U.S. issue jungle boots.  They came in from the north, then followed the guerrillas.
schaefer		Mean anything to you?
dillon		Probably another rebel patrol. They operate in here all the time.
schaefer		Get ahead, see what you can find.  Slow and easy.
schaefer		 J.S. Davis, Captain, U.S. Army...
schaefer		I knew this man.  Green Berets, out of Fort Bragg.  What the hell were they doing in here?  You got any answers for this, Dillon?
dillon		 Uh...I wasn't told of any operations in this area.  They shouldn't have been here.
schaefer		 Well somebody sent them.
ramirez		 Must have run into the guerrillas ...Fucking animals.
mac		 Time to let 'ol 'painless' out of the bag.
schaefer		What happened here, Billy?
billy		Strange, Major.  There was a firefight.  Shooting in all directions.
schaefer		I can't believe Jim Hopper walked into an ambush.
billy		I don't believe he did, Sir. I couldn't find a single track. Just doesn't make sense.
schaefer		What about the rest of Hopper's men?
billy		 It's like they just disappeared.
schaefer		Stick with the guerilla trail.  Let's get it over with.  We move. Five meter spread.  No sound. Nothing.
blain		Payback time.
mac		 Got it?
blain		Say, Bull.  What's goin' down? We got movement?
mac		No.  Shithead with his trenchcoat and dee-coda-da ring was makin' enough noise to get us all waxed.  I don't like that guy.  Don't like him at my back.  I ain't winding up like those bastards back there.
blain		I know what you mean, Bull, but don't sweat it, me and 'ol 'painless' here are watchin' the front door.
mac		As always, bro...
schaefer		 Just killed one of the                             * prisoners.  No time for                            * invitations.  We take them, now.
dillon		 Ready, kid?
dillon		On your nine!!!
schaefer		Stick around.
schaefer		 Down!!!
schaefer		 Hawk, Get Con. Op. on the hook!  Position and situation, now!
hawkins		You got it, Major!
schaefer		Any sign of the hostages?
mac		 Another thing, Major, we were lucky...couple of those guys we waxed are Russians, military advisors by the look of it.  Something big was about to happen here.
schaefer		Good work, Mac.  Clear the area, no traces.  Get the men ready to move.
schaefer		 Shit...
ramirez		You're hit.  You're bleedin', man.
blain		 Ain't got time to bleed.
blain		Son of a bitch's dug in like a Alabama tick...  ...jack us around all day.
ramirez		Hell, dude, we don't have all day.
blain		Shit, Pancho!!!
ramirez		What's your problem, dude?
dillon		This is beautiful!  More than we ever thought.  We got the bastards!
schaefer		I think this is the one you want.
dillon		 We've averted a major guerrilla invasion, Dutch...
schaefer		 It was all bullshit.  All of it. From the start...you set us up, got us in here to do your dirty work.
dillon		 That's right, I set you up. You're a veteran at this, Dutch, I had to.
schaefer		Why us?
dillon		Because I told you, you're the best.  I knew you could do it but I couldn't get you in here without a cover story.
schaefer		What story did you give to Davis?
dillon		We've been lookin' for this place for months.  The chopper must have gotten close when they got shot down.  Hopper                        * was sent in to get my men. He was just doing his job. When he disappeared I had to clean this up,  I had to stop there bastards.  We were so close, we couldn't quit.  We couldn't sleep through this one.  I needed you, Dutch, can't you see that?
dillon		To invade a foreign country, illegally?  You lied, Dillon. Stacked the odds against us.  Set us up.  You could have gotten us all killed.  You used to be one of us, Dillon, someone I could trust with my life...
dillon		We've been through a lot together Dutch.  When we were together, no                  * one could stop us, the hottest                     * Goddamned team the army ever saw.                  * But things changed, I woke up. We're fighting them in a dozen Goddamned countries.  It's a fight we can't lose, Dutch.  We're all expendable assets, can't you see that?
schaefer		That's your problem, Dillon. You always did put ambition before the lives of your men.  This is your dirty little war, not mine.
hawkins		Major!
dillon		 Are you all right?
hawkins		 Major, we stepped into some real shit here.  I got a hook-up with aerial surveillance.
schaefer		Movement?
hawkins		 Guerrillas swarming like flies                     * all over the place.  Can't be more                 * then one, maybe two miles away.                    * Place is going down, Major.
schaefer		How much time?
hawkins		Half an hour, maybe less.                          *
schaefer		 Tell Mac we move in five.
dillon		 She goes with us.
dillon		She's too valuable.  She's got to know their whole network.  The whole set up. We take her with us.                               *
schaefer		We take her and she'll give away our position, every chance she gets.  No prisoners, Dillon.
dillon		You're still under orders, Dutch.  You want to make the call, or should I?
schaefer		I'm getting my men out of this damn jungle, Dillon.  She's your baggage.  You fall behind, you're on your own.
schaefer		This place is too hot for a pick-up. They won't touch us until we're over the border.  We can lift at LZ 49, here.  Except for this valley.
billy		Looks bad, Major.  It's gonna be a real bitch.  If we follow above the river and then down, here, at this canyon, we might find a way out.
schaefer		 Not much choice.  Pancho, take the lead.  Double time it.
schaefer		Lock n' load, watch your ass.
anna		 You touch me again, pig, and I will cut off your balls!
dillon		 It's a long walk back, make it easy on yourself.
mac		 Hey, Dillon, over here.
mac		 Dillon, over here.
dillon		Yeah, what is it, Sergeant?
anna		 When my people catch you, you'll wish you were him.
dillon		Thanks.
mac		 Anytime.
hunter		 Dillon, over here.
hunter		 Dillon, over here.
hunter		 Dillon, over here.
mac		I've seen some badass bush before, but nothin' like this, man.  Little taste 'o home?
blain		I hear you bro, this is some shit.  Makes Cambodia look like Kansas.  Lose your way in here, man, you be in some kinda hurt.
dillon		 Shit.  Come on...
ramirez		 Don't try it.
ramirez		 You should put her on a leash, Agent Man.  If you can't handle her, just say the word.
dillon		 Try that again.  Please.                           *
dillon		Watch her.
schaefer		What's got Billy so spooked?
mac		Can't say, Major...been squirrely all mornin'... fuckin' weird...sometimes I think that nose of his is too good...smells things that ain't there.
schaefer		What is it...?
schaefer		Billy...What the hell's wrong with you?
billy		 Something...in the trees...
billy		 ...there?
schaefer		It's...nothing...
schaefer		What do you think...?
billy		It's nothing...
hawkins		Please...
anna		 Look out, behind you!!!  Hawkins spins...
schaefer		It's not her blood.
schaefer		Hawkins?
ramirez		 I can't tell.
schaefer		 What in God's name...?
ramirez		I think it's Hawkins.
schaefer		Where the hell is his body?
ramirez		There's no sign of it.
schaefer		Ramirez, ask her what happened.
ramirez		She says...the jungle came alive, and took him...
dillon		That isn't what she said... she said...  ...she doesn't make sense.
ramirez		 Couple of sappers been trailing us all the way from the camp, Major.  Billy heard them.  She set us up, ran for it...They were waiting. I should've wasted the bitch when I had the chance.
schaefer		 Why didn't she escape?
dillon		 They did the same thing to Davis...
schaefer		 I want him found.  Sweep pattern and double back.  Fifty meters.
blain		 Come on in you fuckers...come on in.  'ol 'painless' is waitin'...
mac		 Contact, 30 Right!!!
mac		 I...saw it.
schaefer		You saw what?
mac		 I saw it.
schaefer		 ...Just like the others...no powder burns, no shrapnel.
dillon		The wound all fused, cauterized...what the hell did this?
schaefer		 ...Mac!
schaefer		 Mac!  Mac!  Look at me!
schaefer		 Mac, who did this?
mac		I don't know.  Goddamn it, something...I saw something/.
ramirez		Nothing.  The same thing. Not a fucking trace.  No bodies, blood, anything.
schaefer		 We're losing the light.  Mac, I want a defensive position above this ridge, mined with everything we're got.
mac		Yessir.
schaefer		Put him in his poncho and liner and carry him back. We'll bury him in the morning.
mac		I'll take him.
mac		We've got most of the flares, frags. and two claymores just outside.  Nothin's comin' close to here without trippin' on somethin'.
schaefer		Thank you, Sergeant.
schaefer		I'm sorry, Bull.  It's never easy.  He was a good soldier.
mac		 The best friend I ever had.
mac		 Good-bye, Bro.
dillon		 Blazer One, say again...
blazer one		 Red Fox, I say again.  Your request for extraction denied. Your area still compromised. Proceed to Sector 3000 for prisoner extraction, Priority Alpha.  Next contact at 1030 hours.
dillon		 Roger, Blazer One.  1030 hours...damn, bastards.
dillon		 We're still too far in, they won't risk coming in for us.
schaefer		Expendable assets, Dillon. Seems Langley is never around when you need them.
dillon		I can accept that, it comes with the job.
schaefer		Bullshit.  You're just like the rest of us.
ramirez		Shit load o' good a chopper'd do us in here anyway.
dillon		Mac.  Who hit us today?
mac		Don't know, only saw one of 'em.  Camouflaged.  He was there...  ...Those fucking eyes...
dillon		 What, Sergeant?
mac		 ...I drew down and fired right at it.  Capped-off two hundred rounds and then the Mini-gun; the full pack. Nothin'...nothin' on this earth could have lived...not at that range.
mac		I've got the first watch.
dillon		Ask her again.  What did she see?  What happened to Hawkins?
ramirez		 She says the same thing... It was the jungle...
ramirez		 You know something Billy, what is it?
billy		I'm scared.
ramirez		 Bullshit.  You ain't afraid of no man.
billy		There's something out there, waiting for us...it ain't no man.
dillon		He's losing his cool.  There's nothing out there but a couple of men that we're going to have to take down.
schaefer		You still don't get it, do you Dillon?  He took Davis... and now he wants us.
mac		 ...a real number ten night. Remember Bro?  Only you and me, the only one's out of the whole fuckin' platoon who made it out.
mac		...we walked out on top of 'em.  Not a scratch, not a fuckin' scratch.  No fuckin' chili-choker got to you, Bro...you were just too good...
mac		...I promise you this, Bro... whoever he is, I hope he's plannin' to hit us again...  ...'cause he's got my name on 'em.
mac		Got the motherfucker...
mac		 A pig...just a fucking pig...
ramirez		Holy shit, Mac.
schaefer		Get a field dressing on that right away.
schaefer		Where's the girl?
billy		 Major, over here.
billy		The body...it's gone.
ramirez		Came in through the trip wires, took it right out from under our noses...
billy		Boar set off the trip flare, Major.  No other tracks.
ramirez		How could anyone get through this, carry Blain out, right                       * under our noses without leavin'                    * a trace?
schaefer		He knows our defenses.                             * * RAMIREZ Why didn't he try to kill one of us last night?
schaefer		He came back for the body.  He's killing us, one at a time...
billy		Like a Hunter.                                     *
schaefer		He uses the trees.                                 *
schaefer		Yesterday.  What did you see?
dillon		You're wastin' your time.
schaefer		No more games.
anna		I don't know what it was. It...
schaefer		Go on.
anna		It changes colors, like the chameleon.  It uses the jungle...
schaefer		What's you name?
anna		Anna.
schaefer		Anna.  He's hunting us.  You know that?
dillon		What the hell do you think you're doing?
schaefer		We're going to need everyone.                      *
dillon		What are you talking about? We'll be out of here in ten                        * minutes.                                           *
schaefer		We're not going.                                   *
dillon		That rendezvous is ten maybe                       * twelve miles, at most!  We're                      * almost home.  But the chopper                      * won't wait.
schaefer		Dillon...This thing doesn't                        * care who we are, who she is. We make a stand or there won't                     * be anyone left to make that                        * chopper.
anna		There is something else.  When the big man was killed, you must have wounded it.  It's blood was on the leaves.
schaefer		If it bleeds, we can kill it.
dillon		                                    * We've got to get the hell out                      * of here, now, while we've still                    * got the chance.
schaefer		He'll be looking for the trip wires. If we're lucky, he won't see this.
dillon		Now what, Dutch.  You going to send your mystery guest an invitation?
schaefer		You're catching on, Dillon.
anna		 -- like a butcher.  The old ones in the village cross themselves and whisper crazy things.  'Demonio, cazador de trofoes...Only the hottest times of the hottest years...'  Crazy things...This year is grows hot.  And we begin finding our men.  We find them sometimes without their skin. Sometimes...much, much worse.  Cazador de trofoes...means the demon who takes trophies.
dillon		 What'll you try next -- cheese?
dillon		 Satisfied?  Now let's get the hell out...
dillon		What is God's name...?
schaefer		Mac!
schaefer		 Get Ramirez on his feet!  Take the girl and get the hell out of here!
dillon		No way, Dutch.  I'm going. You get these people and get the hell out of here.
schaefer		This isn't your style, Dillon.
dillon		Guess I've picked up some bad habits from you, Dutch.  Now don't argue with me, you know I'm right.  Get to that chopper and hold it for us. We'll be along.
schaefer		You know you can't win this one.
dillon		You know me, Dutch, I never did know when to quit.
schaefer		Dillon!
schaefer		I'll see you there.
dillon		Right behind you.
billy		He's busted up, bad, Major.
ramirez		 I can make it, Major.
schaefer		Come on, Poncho, we're getting out of here.  Billy, take the radio, leave the rest.  Come on!
mac		 Come on, you motherfucker!
voice		 Dillon, over here.
voice		 Dillon, over here.
dillon		 Mac?
mac		 Out there.  Past the rocks... can you see it?
dillon		 We're gonna take this thing.
dillon		Take a position over there. I'll work around towards you. When I flush him, you nail him...
mac		 ...Right, I got a score to settle for the Bro...
dillon		We both got scores to settle.
dillon		 Mac...Mac.
schaefer		 Billy!!!
schaefer		Billy!!!
schaefer		Get back, into the rocks!
schaefer		 Run!  Get to the chopper!
schaefer		You couldn't see me.
schaefer		One chance, that's all.
anna's voice		 Look out, behind you!!!
anna's voice		 ...Look out, behind you!
schaefer		 Anna...?
schaefer		 Anna...?
hunter		 Dillon, over here...
schaefer		Bleed, you bastard.
schaefer		 Who the hell are you...?
hunter		 ...You?
pilot		Holy, fuck, what was that...?!!!
philips		Orbit right...check it out!
anna		NOOOOOO!!!!!!
medic		 Looks like he's been through hell...can't believe he's still alive.  What the hell went on down there?
philips		If it hadn't been for her, he'd be dead now.  That story she told us...I still can't believe it.
****Dialogues from script :Prestige.txt****

stagehand		Where'd you think you're going?!
bearded man		I'm part of the act, you fool!
cutter		Who was that?
cutter		Because of course, you're not really looking...
prosecutor		And did Robert Angier, the Great Danton, your employer, get to that final part of his trick that night? 
cutter		No, sir. Something went wrong.
prosecutor		What went wrong?
cutter		I saw a someone head below the stage... I followed... and I found  BORDEN-
prosecutor		Would you describe your occupation to the jury please, Mr.Cutter?
cutter		I'm an ingeneur. I design illusions and construct the apparatus necessary for perfoming them.
prosecutor		And for how long had you been Mr.Angier's "ingeneur"?
cutter		Eight years. I was privvy to the secrets of his entire act.
prosecutor		So, Mr.Cutter, was this water-filled tank beneath the stage part of Mr.Angier's illusion- the illusion billed as "THE REAL TRANSPORTED MAN"?
cutter		No, sir. The tank had been used for the first trick, then taken offstage. Borden must have put it under the trap door after the interval.
defender		How large was this tank?
cutter		The sort of tank used for underwater escapes- four or five hundred gallons. 
defender		How do you think Mr.Borden was able to move the tank under the trap door without anyone noticing?
cutter		Ask him- he's the magician.
defender		  I ask again that this man explain the mechanics of Mr.Angier's illusion.
cutter		  If I reveal my magician's secrets here in open court, I'll be unemployable and the secrets will be worthless. The Real Transported Man is the most sought-after illusion in the business and I have te right to sell it on.
judge		Mr.Cutter, I see your predicament but we are talking about a capital offence- Alfred Borden's life hangs in the balance.
captain		I'm going to have to ask you to turn out your pockets.
owens		My name is Owens- I'm a solicitor.
borden		How much?
owens		Lord Caldlow is interested in- 
owens		Five thousand pounds.
borden		Talk to Fallon, my ingenuer- the money's for him.
owens		I did. He offered to sell all of your tricks... except the most valuable one - The Transported Man.
borden		I'd never forgive myself for selling my greatest trick. Borden signals the Wardens to come and unlock him.
owens		Even for your daughter? Borden looks up. Owens moves closer, quietly assertive.
borden		Fallon can take care of-
owens		Bernard Fallon? A man with a past even more obscure than your own? The court have already motioned to have the girl removed from his "care". No, the girl is to be an orphan. I've been to the work house... Owens looks around the prison yard. Shrugs.
borden		Angier never learned my trick.
owens		Really? When he returned from Colorado he mounted a version of the Transported Man that the papers said was better, even...
borden		  If you want Angier's secret you can dig him up and ask him for yourself.
owens		I want your secret, Mr.Borden...   Consider your daughter!
angier		  The whole town has electricity?
angier		Quit a reception.
manager		You're our first guest of the season, Mr.Angier.  Your telegram didn't indicate how long you would be staying with us. 
angier		As long as it takes.   I'll need a coach tomorrow to take me up the mountain.
manager		The peak is closed, sit. For scientific experimentation.
angier		  That's why I'm here.
driver		You have to walk the reat, I'm afraid, sir.
shotgun		I'm amazed at how many of you newspaper writers can't read mu sign.
angier		Not the welcome I was expecting.
shotgun		I know you. You're that magician-the Great Danton.  I'm Alley. I saw your show. IN London. Seven times- you guessed every object the audience had in their pockets. Angier leans on his cane and gently brushes off the dirt.
alley		I'm sorry about the fence. People keep interfering with our work.
angier		I've come to see Tesla.
alley		Why?
angier		He built a machine for a- for a colleague of mine. A long time ago. Can you get me a meeting with him?  I've come a very long way.
alley		Impossible, I'm afraid.
angier		I've brought a lot of money. Beat.
alley		I'm sorry, Mr.Angier. I simply can't help you. Alley pulls the fence closed.
angier		I'll be staying at the hotel. Indefinitely. Alley watches Angier walk away. He pulls something from his pocket.
alley		What am I holding? Angier doesn't look back.
angier		Your watch.
milton		Which of you brave souls is willing to bind this lovely young woman...
borden		Milton's squadering their goodwill or a bunch of tired second-hand tricks-
angier		  Old favourites, please.
borden		What about something fresh? He won't even try a bullet catch-
borden		   USE PLANTS-
angier		He can't use plants for every trick.
julia		There'd be no seats left for the punters.
borden		Fine- no bullet catch. But a real magician tries to invent something new, something other magicians scratch their heads over-
cutter		They sells it to them for a small fortune.
angier		Actually, I do.
cutter		Care to sell it?
borden		No one else could do my trick.
angier		I could.
borden		You don't even know what it is.
angier		Show it to me twice, I'll do it.
cutter		I admire your spirit, Mr.Angier. But if Borden here really has invented his masterpiece it might well be something only he can do. 
angier		Why?
cutter		It might be something only he is prepared to do.  my illusions employer, Mr.Milton, is a skilled showman. But Borden's right- he won't get his hands dirty. You want to see what it takes to make real magic- go to the Tenley. There's a Chinaman there who's got what it takes.
angier		Chung Ling Soo.
borden		Tickets are pricey.
cutter		I know a lad on the door. You two watch his show- whoever tells me how he does his goldfish bowl trick gets the prize.
angier		Which is?
cutter		Ten minutes onstage in front of my old friend, Mr.Ackerman.
julia		Who's Ackerman?
borden		The most powerful theatrical agent in London.
cutter		I saw you drop the knot again, Borden.
julia		I think I had my wrist turned- 
cutter		  Some nights you just can't get it, can you? If that knot slips when Julia's on the hoist she'll break a leg.
borden		  It's the wrong knot. A Langford double would hold tighter.
cutter		The Langford double's not a wet knot it's too dangerous. The ropes could swell and she'd never slip it-
julia		I can slip a Lanford underwater.
borden		We've been practiced it-
angier		  He said no.
cutter		  No more mistakes.
angier		Where's he from?
cutter		Where are you from?
angier		He works for another magician? Aren't you worried he'll steal your tricks?
cutter		  He doesn't deal in methods.
angier		How do you know? 
angier		I don't know if I trust him.
cutter		He's a natural magician. Of course you can't trust him.
julia		I think he's alright. Angier turns to Julia. Smiles.
angier		You think everyone's alright.
julia		Even you. Julia kisses Angier. Cutter rises.
cutter		And Mr.Angier...?  Learn your aight lines- if I can see you sneaking a peck on your wife's ankle from the wings, the blokes on each end of rows 3 and 4 can, too.
borden		Look- he's all right. He's fine. 
borden		Sharp lad, your son.
borden		You're the lucky one tonight. Borden walks to a wall of DOZENS of bird cages -- each one with an identical canary. He puts the bird into its cage and returns to the cart props. He taps on the top of the TABLE- a panel POPS open, revealing the FLATTENDED BIRD CAGE. Borden insefts a ROD into the bird cage and PRIES it apart. A TRICKLE of BLOOD emerges, dripping into a bucket below. Borden SLAPS the cage. And the FLATTENED CARCASS of the ORIGINAL BIRD slides out and SPLASHES into the bucket.
borden		 Are you watching closely? Borden reaches to the Boy's ear. Casually produces a coin. The Boy marvels as he takes the coin then looks at Borden.
boy		It's got two heads. Sarah smiles. Borden crouches to address the Boy, grave.
borden		Never. Show. Anyone. 
sarah		He lives with Mum.
borden		And you?
borden		Enough to keep me out?
sarah		I think so. Wil I see you again?
angier		You're wrong. It can't be.
borden		It is. He carries the bowl between his knees for the entire performance.
angier		but look at the man!
borden		  This is the trick. This is why no one detectes his method.
angier		I can barely lift this thing and it's not even filled with water. Or fish. He must be strong as an ox.
julia		  He's been preteding to be an cripple for years?
angier		Any time he's in public. Any time he goes out. It's unthinkable.
julia		You're pretending to be someone else.
angier		I don't think changing your name compares.
julia		Not just your name- who you are, where you're from...
angier		I promised my family I wouldn't embarrass them with my theatrical endeavors. Angier cuddles up to Julia.
julia		I came up with a name for you... "The Great Danton"   You don't like it? It's sophisticated.
angier		It's French.
sarah		Alfred?!
borden		We have our routine for Ackerman!
sarah		  We haven't had the pleasure.
borden		Mr.Fallon is my ingeneur- 
sarah		Where did yo get all of-
borden		Begged, borrowed and don't ask. Mr.Fallon's an enterprising soul.
sarah		I need talk to you.
borden		We'll start making money once we have our audience-
sarah		And until then? What I earn is barely enough for us.
borden		  I'll give him half of my food.
sarah		You're already going to be sharing it with someone else.
borden		You're...?
sarah		Having a baby.
borden		The trick to wake up Ackerman at the end of my audition.
sarah		Your great trick? The "masterpiece that will make our fortunes"? 
borden		No. The world isn't ready for that one, yet. Borden moves to the bureau and starts LOADING the gun. Pouring in SHOT, then WADDING...
sarah		I'm not letting you get shot. Borden RAMS the bullet and charge down then removes the RAMROD and hands the pistol to Sarah.
borden		It's perfectly safe. Shoot me. Sarah looks at Borden then down at the pistol. She aims at Borden. Then sims off, at a mirror beside him. BANG. Borden's hand SNAPS out to "catch" the bullet. The mirror is intact. Borden looks at Sarah, grave, as he reveals the bullet in his hand.
sarah		Show me.  Then you're not doing it. I can't raise a child on my own, Alfred. Borden looks at her. Takes the bullet from her and places it on the bureau.
borden		The bullet goes in the gun. Then comes the ramrod. He takes the RAMROD and PUSHES it down onto the bullet, which disappears.
sarah		Once you know it's so obvious.
borden		Yes, well, people still get killed perfoming it.
sarah		How?
borden		Sme smart-arse drops something down the barrel.
sarah		Such as?
borden		A penny, or a button. Or, of course, a bullet.  But don't fret-
sarah		Say it again.
borden		I love you.
sarah		  Nope. Not today.
borden		What?
sarah		  It's alright. I like being able to tell the difference- it makes the days it is true mean something.
borden		Bloody fool.
policeman		  It's all laid out down the end, you honour.
judge		What's in there?
cutter		Angier's machine.
judge		You built this, Mr.Cutter?
cutter		  A man who can actually do the things a magician pretends to... 
judge		They've benn sold to a Lord Caldlo. An avid collector, apparently very interested in the case.
cutter		Don't let him take this.
judge		Why ever not?
cutter		It's dangerous.
judge		I'm sure beneath its bells and whistles it's get some simple and disappointing trick.
cutter		The most disappointing of all- it has no trick. It's real.
judge		This is the tank Angier drowned in?
cutter		This lets the performer's hands reach the trick padlock...
judge		A standard magical apparatus for escapes?
cutter		With one important difference...
judge		What a way to kill someone. Why in God's name go to such lengths?
cutter		These are magicians, you honour. Showmen. Men who live by dressing up plain and sometimes brutal truths to amaze. To shock.
judge		Even without and audience?
cutter		There was and audience.  See, the water tank had a particular signinficance for the two men...
milton		Which of you brave souls is willing bind this lovely young woman?
angier		How can be not know?!
borden		"How can be not know?!"   Because, Angier, life is complicated, people are complicated, knots are  COMPLICATED-
judge		Alfred Borden, you have been found guilty of the murder of Robert Angier. You will, in one month's time, be hanged by the neck until dead. May the Lord have mercy on your soul.
borden		They took her away?   To the workhouse?
alley		Tesla sends me down here during the storms. Perfect excuse to come shere a drink with the Great Danton.
angier		Why are you here?
alley		The lightning lives here. And noit much else- our work is secret.
angier		My profession also deals in secrets.
alley		Which is?
angier		We magicians have a circle of trust.
alley		You have a circle of trust with someone whose dairy you stole?
angier		Maybe I bought it.
alley		Magicians sell their secrets?
angier		It's how we pay for our retirements and how greats tricks outlive us.
alley		You're hoping to find a great secretin there?
angier		I've already found it. That's why I'm here.
alley		Why would you want the same thing?
angier		Call it a professional rivalry.
alley		Tesla has built unusual machines for unusual people, but he would never talk about it.
angier		I understand discretion. I just want the machine.
alley		Finish your drink. You'll have a special appreciation for our work.
angier		I thought it was a secret. 
alley		  You're a magician. Who's going to believe you?
alley		We do our tests when the townspeople are asleep- Mr.Tesla doesn't want to scare anyone.
angier		Where are the wires?
alley		Exactly.
angier		Where's the generator?
alley		You saw it last week.
angier		But that must be ten miles from here. 
alley		Fifteen. And I have to ride all of them before I get to bed.  I'll send word for you in a few days, Mr.Angier.
voice		Get out your gun, Professor!
borden		A volunteer.
moustache		  Yes.
angier		Never thought I'd find an answer at the bottom of a pint glass.
cutter		Hasn't stopped you looking.   I heard about a booking. Nice little theatre. Good up-and-coming magician.
angier		Who?
cutter		You.
angier		You got me a booking? Why?
cutter		Because I want to keep working...  And who's going to hire the ingeneur who killed Julia McCullough in front of a sellout crowd at the Orpheum?
angier		Someone who know that it wasn't your fault. Someone who knows Alfred Borden and his repertoire of exotic knots.
cutter		Heard he had a spot of bad luck doing a bullet catch South of the river.
angier		To die like that. Locked in water... lungs screaming...   What did she go through, Cutter?
cutter		I knew an old sailor. Told me about a time he got pulled over the side tangled in the sheets... they dragged him out, but it was five minutes before he coughed...
angier		Which knot did Borden tie that night?
cutter		He wouldn't say.
angier		Wouldn't say?!
cutter		It was as if... as if he didn't know.
cutter		We'll have to whitewash the windows to cofound the more curious members of your audience...   But this should do. 
angier		We should see about an assistant.
cutter		I've made arrangements. Have you settled on a name?
angier		Yes, I have. The Great Danton.
cutter		Hmm. Bit old-fashioned? Angier smiles gently at Cutter.
angier		No. It's sophisticated.
olivia		What's so hard about this? Cutter leans into the cabinet and pops up a TRICK PANEl in the floor, revealing a tiny chamber.
cutter		In here, Miss Wenscombe. No point meeting Mr.Angier unless you fit. Olivia shrugs and hands Cutter her hat, then her thick skirts, and folds herself into the bottom of the box.
sarah		I don't understand, Alfred. How can it be bleeding again?
borden		  We can' afford the doctor back! A BABY STARTS CRYING in the bedroom. Sarah glares at Borden.
sarah		You've woken her.
borden		I'm sorry. I just need this to heal so I can het back to work.
sarah		Alfred, you have to face things. What tricks could you peform with this kind of injury?
borden		Some of the card pulls, prop tricks...  And the trick I've been telling you about. The trick they'll remember me for.
angier		The bird cage can't be our climax- everybody knows it.
cutter		Not like this, they don't. 
angier		And I don't want to kill doves.
cutter		  You're a magician, not a wizard- you have to get your hands dirty to achieve the impossible.
angier		You sound like him.
cutter		 Put your hands on the sides...
angier		I need a volunteer.
cutter		Hang on, hang on...
merrit		You'd beat not be intending to hut this animal, Mr.Angier.
angier		Of course not.
angier		 ...THREE!
cutter		And the best part...
angier		Thought you said I had to get my hands dirty.
cutter		Someday, perhaps you will. I needed to know that you can.
merrit		Very nice. Very nice indeed.
angier		  I haven't had a chance to compliment you on your beautiful theatre yet, Mr.Merrit.
merrit		A lot more beautiful when it's full, Mr.Angier.
angier		Don't worry.
merrit		You all say that. Why sould I worry? If your tricks don't get 'em in, someone else's will. Maybe someone willing to do a bullet catch or a water scape.
cutter		cheap thrills, Mr.Merrit. People hoping for an accident- and quite likely to see one, too. What would that do for your business?
merrit		  You've got a week.
angier		You sir, in the hat. Could you show us your handkerchief?
man		This isn't mine.
angier		Perhaps you'd be so good as to return it to the other man. He has yours.
olivia		I'm so nervous- I'm sorry, I'm making mistakes. Cutter quickly REMOVES Angier's coat...
angier		The audience doesn't seem to be responding much, Cutter. Cutter puts he LEATHER HARNESS over Angier's arms...
cutter		This is a grand theatre with a sophisticated audience- They've seen most of these tricks before. But not this next one. You'll see. Cutter checks the SPRINGS of the harness and replaces Angier's coat. He spots a STAGEHAND poking his head around the flies.
angier		Wish us luc, Cutter.
angier		You've seen this one before?
angier		Well, I'll make it a little harder, shall I?
angier		I should've spotted him. 
cutter		You had a lot of plates spinning.
angier		Don't suppose they'll let us do this one again.
cutter		No.
angier		So what's the climax of our show?
angier		Mr.Merrit, we have a week's engagment-
merrit		To perform magic- not butcher birds and break my costomer's fingers! Clear out, anything here in the morning gets burned.
cutter		Mr.Merrit-
merrit		It's done, John. I've hired a comedian. You know I hate comedians, which should indicate the may I felel about your friend's future as a stage magician.
cutter		There are plenty of good theatres... if we can come up with another trick and change the name of the act-
angier		The name stays.
cutter		Right. Well, the new trick will have to be irresistible, then. I've a couple of methods to try out, but we'll need a fresh angle on the presentation. 
ticket hawker		Would you like to know the future, sir? The man who kill change the world is speaking right now. Continents divided no more. Free, clean power. The mysteries of the world solved.
tesla		With a system like this I could have the entire city electrified whitin two years.
audience member		  Fraud.
borden		I love you.
sarah		See? Today, it's true.
borden		Guard! Guard!!
guard		What do want, Professor?
borden		Paper and pencil. Please.
sullen		Let me see?
borden		  Only if I teach you how to read.
sullen		Just stupid tricks, right? Haven't helped you get out of here-   Have they? Or can't you open real locks, Professor? 
borden		Perhaps I'm just biding my time. Perhaps one day I'll just hold up my
sullen		How'd you get so famous, then? Borden STANDS.
borden		Magic. Borden TURNS, NO LONGER CHAINED. Sullen JUMPS to his feet to follow, but HIS ANKLE IS CHAINED TO THE TABLE. The other PRISONERS are LAUGHING and CHEERING.
sullen		Oi, Borden, get back here! Sullen FUMBLES with his keys as Borden takes a BOW. Another warder CRACKS Borden over the head with a TRUNCHEON. Sullen, now free, KICKS Borden in the ribs.
olivia		I don't really.... have anywhere to go. Angier slips the newspaper from the table.
angier		You've been sleeping here?
olivia		Cutter said it would be okay till we get another booking.
angier		Researching. Part of a magician's job is to watch his competition, to see what illusions they're-
olivia		You're going to do something to that man, aren't you? Olivia moves closer. Angier is quiet.
angier		Even? My wife for a couple of his fingers? He has a child now. And he's perfoming again.
olivia		Us. Olivia moves towards him.
borden		I need a volunteer. Angier takes a few steps towards the stage. Borden produces a RUBBER BALL. he TOSSES the ball to Angier.
olivia		What happened, Robert?
angier		He had a new trick.
olivia		Was it good? 
angier		Did they applaud when you saw it?
cutter		Not very enthusiastically.
cutter		The trick is too good -- too simple- the audience harly knows what they've seen.
angier		He's a dreadful magician.
cutter		He's a wonderfull magician- he's a dreadful showman. He doesn't know how to dress it up, how to sell the trick.
angier		How does he do it?
cutter		He uses a double.
cutter		You think that because you don't know the method. It's a double who comes out at the end. It's the only way.
angier		I've seen his perfom ir three times now, Mr. Cutter- the Prestige is the
angier		The same man comes out of the second cabinet. I promise you.
olivia		It is the same man. They both turn to look at Olivia.
angier		He doesn't know how to sell his trick to an audience. But I do. 
cutter		  It would give us our climax.
angier		The man stole my life. I'm going to steal his trick.
cutter		We'll have to find someone who can look like you on a stage.
angier		He doesn't use a double-
cutter		  Ang the only way I know is to find you a bloody good double.
angier		Take a good look- let's get out there and find me.
alley		It's perfectly safe.
tesla		So this is the Great Danton.
angier		I saw a lecture you gave in London, several years ago. I'm flattered you agreed to see me. Tesla keeps hold as Angier's hand.
tesla		Our bodies, Mr. Angier, are quite capable of conducting, and indeed, producing energy.
tesla		Alley has explained that you require a very interesting device.
angier		I need something impossible.
tesla		You're familiar with a phrase 'Man's reach exceeds his grasp'?   
angier		If people thought the things I did on stage were real, they wouldn't clap- they'd scream. Think of saving a woman in half. Tesla nods. Considering.
tesla		Mr.Angier, the cost of such a machine-
angier		Price is not an object.
tesla		Perhaps not. But have you considered the cost?
angier		I'm noit sure I follow.
tesla		I can make your machine, Mr. Angier. But I can also give you some advice...
angier		Have your obsessions done you no good?
tesla		At first. But I've followed them too long- I am their slave. Their whipping boy. And one day they may choose to destroy me. Angier looks into Tesla's eyes.
angier		if you understand an obsession then you know you won't change my mind.
angier		Will you build it?
tesla		I have already begun to build it, Mr. Angier. I hope you enjoy the mountain air. This will take time. Tesla disappears into the lab.
root		A pleasure to meet you fine gentlemen.
angier		He's out of his mind.
olivia		He's an out-of-work actor- of course he's out of his mind.
cutter		He's perfect. A little work, mind you, but when I'm done with him he could be your brother.
angier		I don't need him to be my brother. I need him to be me.
borden		Would you like to see a magic trick?
sarah		What is this for?
borden		You caught me in the wrong mood.
sarah		But you want through all the-
borden		Sarah, I'm allowed to change my mind, aren't I? The act is taking off, maybe soon I'll get us into a bigger theatre. Things will work.
olivia		You walk through this one- then...?
olivia		Oof. Couldn't you find a softer one?
angier		  It's not for sleeping on.
olivia		And Root goes up through there? 
angier		It has to be. Borden's trick is getting noticed. The place was packed today.
olivia		You went and saw his show again?
angier		All I have to do is keep myself stinking drunk all the time and no one will be able to tell the difference.
cutter		A little faith, sir. Could you favor us with a perfomance. Mr. Root?
root		You would drink, too, if you know the world half so well as I do.
cutter		You can go back to being yourself. Root. For free.. Root looks challengingly at both men.
root		I'd rather be him, for now. I find it amusing. Root WAVES his hands across his chest, in the same manner that Angier does onstage. He produces a bottle of Gin from thin air, and takes a long swallow and jumps down to Olivia.
cutter		Root has to keep a low profile-- anyone sees him the game's up.
cutter		Have you thought about what we should call the trick?
angier		No point being coy. Borden calls his trick 'The Transported Man'? Cutter nods.
angier		Ladies and gentlemen, much of what you've seen tonight can be termed illusions. Entertaining trifles of the sort you may have seen other magicians perform.
cutter		The manager said he's never seen a reaction like it. Angier smiles, rueful.
angier		At least he got to see it. I spent the ovation hidden under the stage. No one cares about the man who disappears, the man who goes into the box. They care about the man who comes out the other side.
olivia		I care about the man in the box. Angier turns to Olivia, raises his glass.
angier		Thank you.
cutter		Root, you bloody fool, get that costume and makeup off right now, anyone could walk in here!
angier		I suppose I should get more rest.
olivia		Life is not full of these moments, Robbie.
angier		The trick isn't good enough.
olivia		Didn't you see the audience?
angier		No.
olivia		Well, they loved it.
angier		It's not as good as his trick.
olivia		Borden's trick is nothing compared to ours. He doesn't have any style-
angier		He doesn't have to spend the finale hiding under the stage.
olivia		Why?
angier		So that I can do it better. Angier turns to her. Looks her in the eye.
olivia		Work for him? Are you joking
angier		You'll be my spy.
angier		It's how we advance. Angier moves to Olivia, placing his hands on her shoulders.
angier		Exactly why he'll want to hire you. He'll want my secrets.
olivia		Why would he trust me? Angier thinks for a second. Then smiles.
angier		Because you're going to tell him the truth.
tesla		You must be curious to see what so much money had bought you, Mr. Angier.
alley		You might want to stand back.
tesla		No, no. It will be fine. Mr. Alley, please proceed.
angier		I don't understand-
alley		Perhaps it would be best if you left us to it. We'll see you next week?
borden		We make do.
olivia		My name is Olivia Wenscombe.
borden		I know who you are. Are you here to steal the rest of my show? Olivia sees one of the theatrical notices that litter the shop: "THE GREAT DANTON BREAKS RECORD WITH HIS ASTONISHING
olivia		No. I'm here to give your show what is missing.
borden		And what might that be?
olivia		Me.
olivia		I've left Angier. I want a job. Borden sits there.
borden		Why on earth shouldn't I trust you? The mistress of my enemy.
olivia		Mr.Borden-
borden		Alfred.
olivia		Alfred. I'm going to tell you the truth.
borden		Ah. The truth. A slippery notion in our life of work, Miss Wenscombe.
olivia		I'm here because he sent me here. He wants me to come and work for you and steal your secret.
borden		What does he need my secret for? His trick is top notch. The Great Danton vanishes and isntantly reappears on the other side of the stage -- mute, overweight, and, unless I'm mistaken, rather drunk.
olivia		No. It's killing him. he's obsessed with discovering your method. He thinks of nothing else, and takes no pleasure in our sucess. I've had enough. There's no future with him. He sent me here to steal your secrets, but I've actually come to offer you his.
borden		He has no secrets from me.
cutter		Best be getting changed for the martinee, sir. - Angier nods. Cutter REALIZES.
root		No.
cutter		No?! Root looks at Cutter with genuine malice.
root		We need to have a chat, Mr.Cutter.
angier		We have a problem, Cutter. He holds up the paper, folded to an advertisement:
cutter		We have a bigger problem. Root.
angier		Don't tell me he fell over again.
cutter		Worse. He realized he can make demands.
angier		He's blackmailing us? 
cutter		In a word, yes. I'm surprised, to be honest- it usually takes them a lot longer to figure it out.
angier		How much does he want?
cutter		It makes no difference- we have to stop doing the trick.
cutter		Look at yesterday's. And last week's, where they called you "London's premiere stage performer", not "magician" mind. Performer. Of any kind.
angier		What's the point?
cutter		My point, Robert, is that you've climbed too high to get away with any kind of professional embarrassament. We're not doing any tricks we can't control. Angier considers this. Nods. Thinking.
angier		Pay him whatever he wants, for now. We keep doing the trick till Borden opens, then we'll phase it out.
cutter		Get it down!
root		To what do I owe the pleasure of this rather welcome pint of ale?
borden		You are the Great Danton, aren't you?
root		Of course I am. But don't advertise it- I'll be mobbed with fans.  And who might you be? 
borden		Just a humble admirer. And fellow practitioner.
root		Ah, very good. Root DOWNS the rest of his new pint, placing the empty glass in front of Borden with an emphatic THUNK.
borden		Another?
root		If you insist. I'm not perfoming tonight. Well, only one show, and, to be frank, my people pretty much run things these days.
borden		You could probably do it blindfolded.
root		Bloody good idea.
borden		Have it.
root		Thanks. A new pint arrives. Root sips.
borden		Actually, there's something I might warn you about.
root		Oh?
borden		Well, it's your Transported Man illusion. Now, I'm noit claiming to know your method... but I had a similar trick in my act- and I used... (looks around,
root		Oh, I see, very good.
borden		At first. Then it went bad. You se, I hadn't counted on the fact that once I incorporated this bloke into my act, he had complete power over me.
root		Complete power, you say?
borden		  You must be very careful about giving someone that power over you.
root		Thanks for the warning.  INT. STAGE, EMPIRE THEATRE -- EVENING
angier		...some of you may be familiar with this technique, but for those of you who aren't, do not be alarmed, what you are about to see is considered safe...
borden		Great Danton, I must apologize! I simply had too much magic for my stage at the Pantages!
cutter		I don't see how Borden found him- I had him under wraps, I was careful.
angier		Well, he did.
cutter		Sit, do you think it might be her? Olivia?
angier		No. I don't.
cutter		Shall we cut him down?
angier		He's the Great Danton. Let him cut himself down.
angier		You weren't expecting me?
olivia		I was expecting you sooner, Robbie. Your message said "afternoon". 
angier		Well, it takes a bit for me to get around these days...
olivia		What do you mean? You sent me to-
angier		I sent you to steal his secret- not to improve his act-
olivia		That's my job-!
angier		Or to fall in love with him!
olivia		You abandoned me to him!
angier		  Yes? Then how does he do it?!
olivia		Cutter was right- it's a double.
angier		Of course Borden said that-
olivia		He didn't say anything- he'd never say. I've seen things- make-up, glasses, wigs. We don't use any of it for the show, but I've found it hidden backstage.
angier		  It's misdirection- he leaves those things lying around to make you think he's using a double. 
olivia		All the time? He doesn't know when  I'M LOOKING-
angier		All the time, Olivia- that's who he is, that's what it takes- he lives his act, don't you see?!   And just because you're sleeping with him doesn't mean he trusts you.
olivia		You thing you can see everything, don't you?
angier		You stole it?
olivia		I borrowed it for tonight. I thought you'd be able to translate some of it, but now I realize-
angier		I can't.
olivia		  You can't.
angier		Olivia, no one could-   It's a cypher- with a transposition that probably shifts every day of the diary. Even with the keyword it would take months to decode...
olivia		And without the keyword? 
angier		Perhaps never. We'll see.
olivia		No, we won't- if I don't get that back tomorrow morning, he'll know I took it.
angier		You can'r possibly think I'd let this go? This is his diary, Olivia. All of his secrets are right here, in my hands.
olivia		  Don't do this do me, Robert!
angier		  Leave him.
olivia		He knows where I live!
angier		I need to know his method.
olivia		  It won't get your wife back, Robert.
angier		I don't care about my wife- I care about his secret!
olivia		He'll know it was you-
angier		Yes, me, not you. Understand?
olivia		Robert? I have fallen in love with him. Angier looks at her, sympathetic.
angier		Then I know how hard this had been hard for you.
borden		Notebook. Fallon nods. Borden sighs. Weary.
borden		I'm walking tonight, gentlemen. Fallon looks concerned.
cutter		I'll live.   You save me the trouble to making you an air hole!
borden		I'm impressed.
angier		Why's that?
borden		You're finally getting your hands dirty. This is what a good trick costs, Angier. Risk. Sacrifice.
angier		The sacrifice, I'm afraid, is all going to be yours. Unless you give me what I want.
borden		Which is?
angier		Your secret.
borden		My secret?
angier		Your method for the Transported Man. Fallon wouldn't tell me. In fact, he doesn't talk at all.
borden		  You have my notebook.
angier		Useless without the keyword.
borden		The keyword is the method.
angier		How fast can you gid?
angier		How's the arm?
cutter		Still attached. Did you get your answer?
angier		Our answer, Cutter. I haven't looked yet, I wanted you to share this.
cutter		I already know how he does it, Robert. The same way he always has, the same way we do. You just want it to be something more.
angier		Well, let's find out, shall we? 
cutter		What does it mean?
angier		  It means, Cutter, that we have a journey ahead of us. To America.
cutter		Robert, listen to me.  Obssession is a young man's game, I can't follow you any farther in this.
angier		Then the rest is up to me.
sarah		I didn't know we'd be joined for dinner.
borden		Absolutely. We're celebrating.
sarah		Miss Wenscombe. Mr.Fallon.
borden		 Champagne. Your finest
sarah		What are we celebrating, dear? 
borden		Well, we've hit upon a new trick, haven't we, Fallon?
olivia		What trick, Freddy?
sarah		  Yes, "Freddy". What trick?
borden		  I'm going to bury myself alive. Every night. Then someone's going to come along and dig me up! OTHER DINERS are glancing over. The waiter uncorks the bottle with a muffled POP and pours champagne into Borden's glass.
sarah		  I'm not sure my husband needs-
borden		Who are you to tell me what?!
olivia		 PERHAPS-
sarah		Perhaps, Mr.Fallon, you might escort Miss Wenscombe home. My husband's being a bore. I see no reason for the two of you to suffer as well.
olivia		Good-night, Mrs.Borden. Good-night, Freddy.
sarah		"Freddy"?
borden		It's my name.
sarah		Not at home. 
borden		I'm not always at home.
sarah		Alfred, why are you being like this?
borden		Sarah, I had a terrible ordeal today. I thought I'd lost something very precious to me.
sarah		What?
borden		Secrets are my life, Sarah. Our life.
sarah		When you're like this, Alfred, I'm not seeing the real you. You're treating me like your audience. Performing. I can't live with that.
angier		I thought I had the place to myself.
manager		Unexpected guests.  Not very polite. A lot of questions. At first I thought they might work for the government. 
angier		No?
manager		  Worse. They work for Thomas Edison.
olivia		No. It's killing him. He's obssessed with discovering your method. he thinks of nothing else, and takes no pleasure in our success. I've had enough. There is no future with him. He sent me here to steal your secrets, but I've actually come to offer you his.
borden		He has no secrets from me.
olivia		No. This is what he told me to tell you. Beat.
borden		I can spot Angier's methods from the back of the theatre. What could you possibly have to offer me? Olivia smiles, moves to Borden, reaching for his gloved hand. Borden flinches, surprised.
olivia		You may know he does his tricks... but you can't understand why no one can see that yours are better. She tenderly PEELS OFF his padded glove revealing his mutiladed hand.
olivia		Then let people know. You can be so much more then he is. I can show you how. Borden looks into her eyes.
olivia		Robbie's blinded by his jealosy. He'd do anything for you secret. Sending me away was the least of it. Borden considers this.
angier		 TESLA!    TESLA!!
angier		I've veen played for a fool!
alley		Who by?
angier		Tesla never made a machine like the one I asked for.
alley		We never said he had.
angier		You let me believe that he had, Alley!   
alley		Where?
angier		In the hotel. I've every mind to bring them up here myself-
tesla		That would be unwise, Mr.Angier.
alley		Sir, my cat?
angier		Then why isn't the machine working?
tesla		Because exact science, Mr.Angier, is not an exact science. The machine simply does not operate as expected. It needs continued examination.
angier		Where did my top hat go?
alley		Nowhere.
tesla		Which is why we need to rey a different material. It may provoke a different result. Tesla opens the cage and points the open end at Alley.
alley		You are responsible for whatever happens to this animal, Doctor. Alley pulls himself out of the pit, and Tesla CHARGES the generator. The cat stares up at the machine around it and HISSES. Without ceremony, Tesla FIRES the machine. As before, large BOLTS spew from the head of the machine, down towards the unseen cat. The machine build to a DEAFENING ROAR, then sputters out. Silence. The three men begin edging towards the pit. Suddenly, a terrifying SCREECH. The cat is still there, still tied to the hook. Alley breathes a sigh of relief and starts to free the car. Tesla looks frustated. Suddenly, the cat bursts free of Alley and ROCJETS through the open side door of the lab.
angier		I'll go. Angier limps after the cat.
angier		Here, kitty, kitty.
angier		So the machine was working?
alley		I never bothered to check the calibration. The hat never moved.
tesla		These things never quite work as you expect them to, Mr. Angier. That's one of the principal beauties of science.
angier		Which one is mine?
tesla		They are all your hat, Mr. Angier. Tesla smiles at him.
jess		Are we going to the zoo this afternoon, daddy?
borden		Daddy's got some business this afternoon.
jess		But you promised.
borden		Did I? Jess nods at him, solemly.
jess		That's you, daddy? Borden picks up the girl off of his lap and stands.
borden		Daddy has some errands to run. I'll be back before you know it, so get ready.
sarah		We each have our vices. Borden moves to her, gentle concern in his eyes.
borden		Sarah. Whatever you may think, your only competitions for my affections is my little girl. I love you. I will always love you, and you alone. She looks into his eyes. Fascinated.
sarah		You mean it today.
borden		Absolutely.
sarah		That makes it so much harder when you don't. She turns from him. Borden watches her sadly. Leaves.
borden		More shopping. She doesn't like the smell of money, doesn't she? Fallon looks away. Borden tears up the paper.
olivia		What is it. Freddy?
borden		Please don't call me that. It's nothing, just... sometimes things seem... wrong.
olivia		Freddy, I've told you before. When you're with me, you're with me. Leave your family at home where they belong.
borden		I'm trying, Olivia. Please.
olivia		I'll get dressed.
borden		You trust me?  Then trust Fallon- he protects the things I care about.
manager		We're sorry to see you go, Mr. Angier.
angier		What box?
manager		We never use these rooms in the off - season. It's a shame. 
angier		Yes, you, Borden. Sitting there, in your cell, reading my diary. Awaiting your death. For my murder. 
owens		Lord Caldlow was happy to hear that you'd reconsidered his offer.
borden		Angier's journal, the "gesture of good faith"? It's a fake.
owens		  I assure you it's not.
borden		It has to be- it refers to events that happened after his death.
owens		Clever predictions, I'm sure. The provenance of the journal is clear and under no doubt. It's written in Angier own hand, of which we have numerous examples.  What makes you think it's a fake?
borden		It doesn't matter.
owens		Including the Transported Man? Lord Caldlow will be very pleased.
borden		No he won't. They're not complete- you only have the Pledge and Turn for each.
owens		Without the Prestige for each trick these are wothless. 
borden		You'll get the rest after you bring my daughter here.
sarah		Deny it all you want- I know!  INT. LIVING ROOM, BORDEN'S HOUSE -- CONTINUOUS
borden		Sarah, it's not true! I've told you Olivia means nothing to me!
sarah		I'll go yo her! I know what you really are, Alfred!
borden		  Sarah. You can't do that.
sarah		I can't live like this! 
borden		Not today. Sarah takes this in. Borden watches, helpless.
who's there		Cutter turns. A STAGEHAND. His eyes are solid white. The man is clearly BLIND.
cutter		I- I'm looking for an old friend-
cutter		You came back.
angier		It's a good to see you, John. Cutter sizes Angier up. Looks around the theatre.
cutter		Good rehearsal space. Blind stagehands. I like it-
angier		I need your help, John. My last show. A limited engagement.
cutter		Your last show?
angier		A wise man once told me that obsession was a young man's game. I'm almost done. One thing left...  The real Transported Man.
cutter		You want to design a show around it?
angier		i don't want you backstage, I need you front of house, managing.
cutter		What sort of booking are you after?
angier		The sort that Borden can't ignore. Cutter looks at Angier. Nods.
driver		This is the address, sir.
cutter		Mr.Ackerman. It's an honor to see you again, sir.
ackerman		When you said you only wanted to show me one trick it piqued my interest.
cutter		It's a very special trick. Mr.Ackerman.
angier		Pleased to meet you, Mr. Ackerman.
ackerman		Likewise, I'm sure. Let's get on, shall we?
cutter		 Turn it on, please.
ackerman		Very pretty.
ackerman		 EXACTLY-
angier		Are you interested in helping us?
ackerman		  Yes. But you'll have to dress it up a little. Disguise it. Give them enough reason to doubt it. 
ackerman		I have an act for your venue.
ackerman		Get rid of them. This is a magical act. An excellent one. I believe you booked his first engagement several years ago. The Great Danton.
merrit		You really want me to- Ackerman stands.
olivia		You haven't spopken about her, Freddy. Not once.
borden		Who?
olivia		Don't be cruel.
borden		Why would I talk about her to you?
olivia		Because she was part of your life and now she's gone.
borden		  I never loved Sarah.
olivia		  You married her, had a child with  HER-
borden		Part of me loved her. But part of me didn't. The part that found you. The part that's sitting here now. I love you. That is the truth that matters.
olivia		You could be sitting in some other restaurant talking to some other woman about me that way. It's unhuman to be so cold.
borden		He's back?
olivia		After two years. And he has a new trick. They're saying it's the best that London's ever seen.
angier		Ladies and gentlemen, my first trick of the evening is one that involves considerable risk.  Anyone in the audience who would be irrevocable damaged by seeing a man drown should leave now, for when I tell you that the young lady who taught performing it, you will understand the seriousness of the danger involved.
angier		In my travels I have seen the future, and it is a strange future indeed. The world is on the brink of new and terrifying possibilities. The audience RECOILS in terror as the MACHINE is STARTED and BOLTS fly from it. SMOKE drift over the audience. Borden inches forward in his seat. Angier stands in front of the machine, silhouetted by the FRENZY of electricity behind him. He TOSSES his cane to his assistant and steps into the machine. The audience SCREAMS as large bolts BLAST from the machine and wrap themselves around ANGIER'S ARMS and legs. Borden is watching very carefully. Angier is almost impossible to see as the machine builds to a climax, but, just before it does; Borden catches a glimpse of ANGIER'S
borden		Why only 100 performances? Do his methods dictate it, or is it simply a publicity move? Borden walks back and stares at the sketch.
blind stagehand		 WHO'S THERE!
cutter		It's Cutter.
blind stagehand		What do you want?
cutter		I'm looking for Angier.
angier		You found him.
cutter		What are they doing?
angier		Disposing of the Prestige materials.
cutter		What's down there?
angier		Do you really want to know? Cutter considers Angier's grave tone.
cutter		Perhaps not. Cutter leaves by the stage door.
borden		They do this every night. After each performance? Fallon nods. Borden gets to his feet with a sigh. Turns to a POSTER on the wall- "The Great Danton Perform THE REAL
stagehand		Where'd you think you're going?
borden		I'm part of the act, you fool!
cutter		Who was that?
cutter		What did you do?
judge		You will, in one month's time, be hanged by the neck until dead. May the Lord have mercy on your soul. 
owens		Mr.Cutter?   Owens.
cutter		Thank you for coming, Mr.Owens. It's fallen to me to dispose of Mr.Angier's equipment. Looking at the manifest, it's cleat that Lord Caldlow has purchased the bulk of the items.
owens		Mr.Cutter, if you needed to know where to deliver the items you surely could have just-
cutter		It's not just that, Mr.Owens. There is a particular item  This time, in fact, that I wish to... well, that is to say, I want to-
owens		You wnat to buy it instead.
cutter		I suppose so, yes.
owens		This is the machine?   I'm afraid Lord Caldlow was adamant about procuring this particular item.
cutter		Perhaps if I dould talk to Lord Caldlow in person.
owens		Out of the question, I'm afraid.
sullen		  Still here, Borden?
borden		For now.
sullen		Got a visitor. Lord Caldlow. With a little girl.
borden		Jess, how are you?
jess		Can I come in there, Daddy? 
borden		Everything's going to be okay. It is only then that he notices the HAND ON HER SHOULDER. He rises to come face-to-face with Lord Caldlow-
borden		I saw you die. Angier just SMILES.
angier		They flatter you with all those chains, Alfred. Don't they know you can't escape without your little rubber ball? Borden says nothing.
borden		You were always afraid to get your hands dirty... (looks down at his
angier		No. Not anymore. And I win. Because no one cares about the man in the box, the man who disappears.
borden		You win. But don't take my little girl... Angier looks at Borden. Bitter
angier		I know how hard it is to have someone so precious taken away, don't I   
borden		Wait. Don't you want this? You paid for it.
angier		Your secret.
borden		Angier! Let me say good-bye. Please.
jess		When are you taking me home, Daddy?
borden		Soon. I promise. Soon.
angier		For God's sake, Borden.
borden		Daddy's coming, I promise. I promise.  HERE-
housekeeper		Come here, love.   Sir, there's gentleman waiting.
captain		Dead God.
angier		Hello, Cutter.
cutter		You're alive.   How?
angier		  I learned an American accent from-
cutter		  How are you alive, Robert?! I saw you on the slab, for God's sake. 
angier		I magician never reveals his secrets.
housekeeper		Go on, child.
angier		Good night, Jess.
cutter		Who's the girl?
angier		She needs looking after-
cutter		She needs her father, but you're letting him hang. And I helped you.
angier		You don't have to. I'm going to make sure the machine. is never used again.   A good magician never repeats his tricks. 
cutter		Then, Lord Caldlow, where would like me to deliver it?
angier		My theatre. It belongs with the Prestige materials.
cutter		I once told you about the sailor who described drowing to me...
cutter		I was lying. He said it was agony.
borden		We go alone now- both of us. Only I don't have as far to go as you.
cutter		Thank-you gents.
workman		Where do you want it?
cutter		Don't worry. Someone's coming to help. The workmen levae. Cutter looks at the crate. Angier emerges from the darkness.
cutter		I'm bringing this over after we're done.
angier		Cautions as ever, Cutter. No one's going to use the place. I own it.
cutter		No room left- you couldn't have acommodated 100 performances.
angier		It's a good thing I retired early then. Angier puts the lattern and his cane on the lif of the crate and the two men heft ir off the platform.
cutter		I'll go mix the cement. Cutter looks at Angier, cold.
angier		Cutter, I tried not to involve you. Cutter looks at Angier. Nods. Then disappears into darkness.
warden		Alfred borden, on this day, in the name of the King and the high court of England, you will meet your end. Do you have anything to say for yourself. Borden saus nothing. The Warden gestures to the HANGMAn who begins to PULL the lever.
angier		You were Fallon. The whole time... Fallon/Borden's face disappears as Cutter seals his coffin.
borden		We were both Fallon. And we were both Borden.
angier		Were you the one who went into the  BOX-
angier		Cutter knew. But I told him it was too simple. Too easy.
borden		Simple, maybe. But not easy.
angier		What about Olivia? And your wife?
borden		We each loved one of them. We each had half a full life. Enough for us, but not for them. Borden puts the ball in his pocket. Tears in his eyes.
borden		It takes nothing to steal someone else's work.
angier		It takes everything.
angier		  It didn't work.
angier		  Do you want to see what it cost me? You didn't see where you are, did you? Let me show you.
borden		  You went halfway around the world. You spent a fortune. You did terrible things... and all of it for nothing.
angier		Nothing? You never understood, id you? Why we did this?   You really don't know?
****Dialogues from script :Pretty_Woman.txt****

edward		 Left pocket.
vance		Look, we're talking about hard assets and a straight liquidation. We have over a thousand man hours in this deal.
stuckey		 This is a "no brainer".  There's no risk for you.  No one has ever lost money backing Mr. Harris.
stuckey		 Come on.  You know we're not going to go into ship building. Besides, you're the ones with the troubled track record, not us!
edward		It's unacceptable.
edward		Draymen Heux has offered me seventy-five in the pool at sixteen and a half.  I can secure the other half personally.  You have until tomorrow morning to make me a better offer.
edward		The meeting is over, gentlemen.
stuckey		Hah!  Did you see the look on their faces?
vance		You don't think we pushed too hard?
stuckey		NO way!  They'll come back.  They can't afford not to.  Edward, that bluff was beautiful.
edward		Maybe I should have made it rhyme.
edward		 Well!  It's late.  We've been at this long enough.
edward		Gentlemen, enjoy the party.  The magician's wonderful.
edward		 Watch your left pocket.
butler		Phone call, Mr. Harris.  It's Miss Charles.
stuckey		Cynthia?  Is she coming out?
edward		We're about to find out.  Go on. Take care of your guests.
edward		 No, I don't expect you to be at my beck-and-call.  Are you coming or not?
edward		 Prepare the filing papers.  Have them ready by the middle of the week.  I'll tell you when to submit them.
a man		Edward!
edward		 Yes!
the man		Will we see you at the polo matches Wednesday?
edward		Wouldn't miss it.  I want this done fast and easy. No slip-ups.  I want to be back in New York by Saturday.  Got it?
elizabeth		Bill?
stuckey		 Oh... Hi, honey... Millicent, uh, uh, Millicent.
millicent		Lowell.
stuckey		Lowell, right.  My wife, Elizabeth.
elizabeth		 Is Edward leaving?
stuckey		What's up, where you going?
edward		Give me your car keys, will you, I'm going back to my hotel.
stuckey		At least stay for a drink.  This party's for you.
edward		Apologize to Elizabeth for me.
stuckey		Listen, there're some major local talent inside just dying to meet you...
edward		 No, thank you.  I just got off the phone with one.
stuckey		Cynthia's not coming?
edward		No.
stuckey		Let your driver take you.  We'll move the cars...
stuckey		Can you drive a stick?
stuckey		Edward, give me a break!
edward		Love this car!  Is it new?
stuckey		Yes!  And you don't even know where you're going!
stuckey		That's the wrong way!
landlord		Vivian.
vivian		Yeah, what?
landlord		Rent.  You're late.
vivian		Don't give me that.  Kit gave it to you yesterday, cash.
landlord		Kit give me nothin'.
vivian		 You bullshittin' me?
landlord		Of rent I do not bullshit.
landlord		By the end of the week or you're otta here.  By the way, you look very nice tonight!
prostitute		Hey, baby, you lookin' for a date?
vivian		Chan, you seen Kit tonight?
cook 1		Hi, hi!  No see nothing.
vivian		You do, tell her I'm looking for her.
cook 2		Looking good, bay-bee.
vivian		Yeah, you too, D'Nai.  If Kit comes in here, tell her stay.
cop		They just pulled her out of a dumpster in the back.  Now talk to me.
man		I tell you, man, I don't know who she hang with.
cop		She have a pimp?
man		Cocaine her pimp, man.  She a strawberry.  She be out on these streets, day in, day out, tradin' her sorry ass for crack.  And now she dead from it.
vivian		You spent it on drugs, didn't you?
kit		Hi, Viv.  Carlos, you know my roommate, Viv.
carlos		Lookin' good, baby.
vivian		 Did you blow it all, Kit?  Is it all gone?
kit		Carlos had some great rock.
vivian		I bet.  That was our rent!
carlos		Calm down, Chica.
carlos		Ey!  What is it you wan', baby? I can fix you up.
vivian		Beat it, scum bucket!
carlos		You kiss your mother with that mouth?  Your frien' still owes
vivian		 Let's go.
vivian		Get out of my face or I'll have those cops on your ass in two seconds.
carlos		 Don't take no dates tonight, chica, you got one with me.
vivian		We worked for that money.  We were gonna put together enough to get out of that dump we live in, get off this street.
kit		Viv... don't be stupid.  We're whores.
vivian		I just saw somebody pulled out of a dumpster.  I wonder how much she made tonight?
kit		Don't be mad at me.  I'll pay you back.  I promise.
vivian		I thought you were giving up that drug shit.
kit		I will.  I'm trying.  Meanwhile I got some crack left, you wanna get high?
vivian		No, let's go to work.  Okay?
kit		Okay.  I'm sorry I said your dream was stupid.
kit		No no, honey.  You see these stars on the sidewalk.  Me and Vivian work from Don Ameche all the way up to Roy Rogers. This is our office.  We got seniority.  Get off our corner.
rachel		I was just taking a rest here. Besides, she's new. 
kit		But I'm old.  Go rest up by Monty Hall or Debra Paget where you belong.
vivian		 Looks slow tonight.
kit		Maybe we should get a pimp. Carlos likes you and --
vivian		Forget it.  We work for it.  We keep it.
kit		I can't handle this tonight. I'm going home.
vivian		 That crack is burning a hole in your pocket.  There isn't even milk in the fridge.  The rent's due.  Now come on --
vivian		He's not gonna want us.
edward		 Excuse me.
kit		 Don't take less than a hundred. You look hot tonight.  And remember, don't mouth off.  They don't like that.
vivian		Okay.  Go home.  But take it easy on that shit.
kit		You're the greatest.  I'll wait up for you.
vivian		Hey Sugar, you lookin' for a date?
edward		What's that?
vivian		You looking' for some company?
edward		Uh, no.  How do I get to Beverly Hills?
vivian		What?  You gonna tell me you're lost?
edward		Yes.
vivian		Great.  What do I look like a tourguide?
edward		 No, you look like a hooker.
vivian		Actually, I'm a movie star out for a walk.
edward		Good.  Can you tell me how to get to Beverly Hills?
vivian		Sure.  For five bucks.
edward		That's ridiculous.
vivian		The price just went up to ten.
edward		Why don't you just do it out of the kindness of your heart?
vivian		 Sit... and spin.
edward		Sit-and-spin.  Alright... why not?
edward		 You have change for a twenty.
vivian		For twenty, Ill show you personal.  Drive.
vivian		Nice car.  Yours?
edward		 No.
vivian		Stolen?
edward		Not exactly.
vivian		Mind if I turn on some heat?
edward		If you can figure it out, be my guest.
edward		Very good.  You're obviously mechanical.
vivian		 You're not from L.A., huh?
edward		New York.
vivian		What motel you staying at?
edward		Hotel.
vivian		Okay, what hotel?
edward		Regent Beverly Wilshire.  I bet you know it.
vivian		 Yeah, I peed in the fountain there once.  Give me a break.
edward		What's your name?
vivian		What do you want it to be?  Vivian, my name's Vivian.
edward		You like being a hooker, Vivian?
vivian		It pays.
edward		So do day jobs.
vivian		 Turn right.
edward		Must be dangerous.  Hooking.
vivian		Tell me about it.  L.A. is suffering from a wacko epidemic. And who knows where half the guys I pick up have been.  I mean, I use condoms.  Always.  And I get checked out once a month at the free clinic.  Not only am I better in the sack than an amateur, I'm probably safer.
edward		Very good.  You ought to have that printed up on your business card.
vivian		 If you're making fun of me, I don't like it.
edward		Sorry.  If I did, I didn't mean to.
edward		Ugly habit, biting your nails.
vivian		You don't know habits, you think this is ugly.
vivian		Okay, pull over.  Let me out. I've got to get back to work.
edward		What do you charge for company, Vivian?
vivian		Company would cost you... a hundred dollars.
edward		For the whole night?
vivian		For an hour.
edward		You're joking.
vivian		I never joke about money.
edward		Neither do I.  A hundred bucks an hour though. That's pretty stiff.
vivian		No, but it's getting there.
edward		Vivian, how much to put up with me for the entire night?
vivian		You couldn't afford it.
edward		Try me.
vivian		Three hundred.
edward		Fine.
vivian		What's your name, lover.
edward		Edward.  My name is Edward.
vivian		Edward... you got it!
edward		Get in.  This side.
vivian		What?
edward		You know how to drive a stick?
vivian		Better believe it.
edward		Then let's go.  It's worth 300 just so I don't have to drive.
vivian		Here we go Edward.
edward		My raincoat's in the back.  Put it on.
vivian		Why?
edward		You may feel more comfortable. This is not the kind of place that rents rooms by the hour.
vivian		You mean they don't have hookers.
edward		Every place has hookers, but if this hotel has hookers, they don't look like they're...
vivian		Off the boulevard.
edward		Exactly.
vivian		Great.  Now I took like a hooker in a trenchcoat.
vivian		So let's go.
operator		Evening, sir.
edward		Good evening.  Penthouse.
vivian		Penthouse.  My, my.
vivian		The penthouse.  And step on it.
edward		 What do you drink?
vivian		Diet coke.
edward		 Send up a bottle of Crystal champagne.
vivian		Can I have some chips?
edward		 -- and a bowl of strawberries. Thank you.
edward		 Impressed?
vivian		You kidding?  I come here all the time.  As a matter of fact they do rent this room by the hour.
edward		Want to know something?  I don't quite know.  I hadn't planned this.
vivian		Do you plan everything?
edward		 Always.
vivian		Well, the meter's running, it's your money.  Speaking of which, cash'll do.  In advance.
edward		Fair enough.
edward		Let's talk some more first.
vivian		Right.  So!  In town on business?
edward		 Uh-huh.
vivian		Let me guess, you're a... lawyer.
edward		 And why do you say that?
vivian		 I dunno... you have that sharp, useless look.
edward		Sounds like you've known a lot of lawyers.
vivian		I've known a lot of everybody.
edward		Champagne.
vivian		Hey.  I might as well make myself useful.
waiter		Where would you like it?
vivian		Where would we like it?
edward		Where would we like it?  Here'll be fine.
vivian		What are you looking at?
edward		I think he wanted you to tip him.
vivian		Tsk.  Excuse me, I didn't think he had change for a hundred.
edward		I have both.
vivian		Where are they?  Shopping together?
edward		They should be.  They're both good at it.
edward		It's a very good year.
vivian		Oooh, thank god.
edward		Try a strawberry.
vivian		Why?
edward		Because they bring out the flavor of the champagne.
vivian		Jesus, you act like you're seducing some Valley girl you picked up in a dance club.
edward		Vivian... the meter's running... cooperate.
edward		 You really are a very beautiful girl.
vivian		 Just a romantic, that's you.
edward		Yes...
vivian		Me too.
edward		 What do you like?
vivian		If I want you to turn me on I'll pay you three hundred.  Just lay back and let me drive.
edward		 Sorry.  Go ahead.
stuckey		Kross knows we're after his company.  He wants to talk with you.  I don't think you should.
edward		I want to.
stuckey		Edward, if the three of us sit down together we might as well announce our plans in the Wall Street Journal.
edward		I'll see him alone.  Everyone knows you're my muscle.  We'll make it social.  Tell Kross I'll meet him for dinner.  Tonight if you can arrange it.
stuckey		You shouldn't go alone.  He might claim that you tried to black mail him.
edward		Bill, we're businessmen, not the damn mafia.  I'll see you in the office.  By the way, about your car...
stuckey		Oh, god, what?
edward		 I'll bring it back.
edward		Good morning.
vivian		You didn't wake me.  I'll be out of here in a minute.
edward		No hurry.  Would you like some breakfast?
vivian		Only if you do.
edward		Did you sleep well?
vivian		Yeah.  Too good.  I forgot where I was.
edward		Occupational hazard?
vivian		Where'd you go?
edward		I took the couch.  I had some work to do.  About last night...
vivian		Oooh, Baby, you were the best. I was beside myself.
edward		Mmm, I could tell.
vivian		I just hope it was worth three hundred bucks.
edward		I'd say you give a good dollar value.
edward		Do you ever... enjoy it?
vivian		I like guys if that's what you're asking.  Not that I trust'm.
edward		No?  Why's that?
vivian		"Occupational hazard".
edward		I buy companies.
vivian		No shit.  They expensive?
edward		The one I'm buying this week will cost around 150 million.
vivian		... dollars?
vivian		So what a ya do with the companies once you buy'm?
edward		 I sell them.
vivian		What?  Why?
edward		By breaking up a company's assets --
vivian		What are assets?
edward		Vivian --
vivian		C'mon, I might buy a company some day.
edward		Assets are anything of value a company owns.  Sometimes the pieces are worth more than the whole.  By selling them off, I make a profit.
vivian		Sorta like stealing cars and selling'm for parts, huh?
edward		Not... quite.
vivian		There, see?  Now the emblem is right in the middle of the knot.
edward		Where'd you learn to do this?
vivian		 I fucked the debate team in high school.  Tsk.  I had a grampa. He liked ties on Sundays.  You mind if I take a swim in your bathtub before I hit it?
edward		Don't drown.
vivian		You could hold a pep rally in here!
edward		 Yes.
stuckey		Edward, it's me.  Kross is all set for tonight.
stuckey		Listen, I gotta say this again, I don't like you going alone.
edward		 I'm a big boy.
stuckey		Let me at least get you a date. Keep it social.
stuckey		Edward, did you hear me?
edward		I'm here.
stuckey		I know a lot of nice girls.
edward		I have one.
edward		All right.  How much for the week?
vivian		What?
edward		I'm in town until Saturday.
edward		Do-you-want-to-stay-here- for-the-week?
vivian		It'd cost you.
edward		Of course.  How much?
vivian		Five full nights... days too?
vivian		Four thousand.
edward		Vivian, may I point out five more nights at three hundred a night
vivian		But you want days too.
edward		All right, two thousand.
vivian		Three.
edward		Done.
vivian		Holy shit.
edward		I'm not just talking about sex.
vivian		Look butthead, I'll treat you so nice you'll never want to let me go, okay?
edward		Three thousand for five days. And Vivian, I will let you go.
edward		I'll be out most of the day.
edward		I want you to go out and buy some decent clothes.
edward		Nothing too flashy, not too sexy. Conservative.  Understand?
vivian		Yeah, you want me to dress like your high class girlfriend. You're wasting your money though. All I'm gonna do is hang around the hotel.  As a matter of fact, I may never get out of that bathtub.
edward		Think again.  I'm taking you out to an important dinner with me tonight.
edward		Probably.
vivian		Three thousand...
vivian		Three thousand!
vivian		Kit!  Where've you been?
vivian		Kit, listen, the guy last night, the one in the Ferrari, I'm at this hotel, the Regent Beverly Wilshire, it's this absolutely unbelievable place and he's hired me for a whole week and Kit, listen, he's paying me three thousand bucks!  We can get out of the apartment.  We can get out of this town.  We can do anything!  Kit?  Hey, you there?
vivian		He... he just does.
vivian		Three hundred for last night and he gave me extra to buy some clothes.  Now listen, I'm gonna leave an envelope for you at the front desk. Give me two hundred to the scum bucket and the other hundred to that asshole landlord for part of the rent.  Spend it on drugs and I'll pull your hair out.
kit		I'm getting dressed now.  I'll be over.  Bye.
vivian		Hey Kit, where do I go for the clothes?  Good stuff on him.
vivian		Yeah.
saleswoman		 May I help you?
vivian		I'm just looking, thanks.
saleswoman		Are you looking for something in particular?
vivian		Yes.  Something... conservative.
saleswoman		Yes...
vivian		You have beautiful things.  How much is this?
saleswoman		I don't think it would fit you.
vivian		 I didn't ask if it would fit. I asked how much it was.
saleswoman		It's very expensive.
vivian		What is with you?
saleswoman		 Excuse me?
vivian		I'm going to spend money.
saleswoman		I don't think we have anything for you here.  You're obviously in the wrong place.
vivian		I'm just going to my room.
vivian		I'm -- I'm with a friend.
vivian		I... Edward...
vivian		 He knows me.
operator		She's with Mr. Harris.
operator		She apparently joined him last night.
vivian		Vivian.
vivian		Niece?
vivian		That's what I was trying to do.
vivian		Barney.
vance		Okay... this is the jewel in Kross's crown.  We can strip out all the heavy equipment.  Some of the cranes are very valuable overseas.  The Japanese are salivating for them.
stuckey		Prime industrial property straddling the Port of Long Beach and Los Angeles.  It gives me a hard-on.
edward		What's that long building over there?
jake		Storage, I think.
edward		Not with those smokestacks it's not.
vance		Let me check.
jake		The real estate possibilities are endless.  Most of the yard we'll just level.  I talked to a couple of developers, under the table, of course, and they said --
edward		You what?
jake		I talked to some developers about the land.
stuckey		What kind of an idiot are you? You don't talk about this to anyone.
jake		They're close friends, they'd never breathe a word --
stuckey		 Where did you dig this moron up?
vance		He's right, Jake, that was an incredibly stupid thing to do. It won't happen again, Edward. I'll pull him off the project immediately.
edward		Don't bother.
stuckey		What!?
edward		We don't have the time to bring someone new up to speed. Besides...  You've already impressed everyone you need to, haven't you?
jake		It won't happen again, Mr. Harris.
vance		This is interesting.  That building is storage now, but it used to be a smelting plant.  They closed it down after World War II.
edward		I want our lawyers to check into the toxic waste licences on them right away.  I want to know if the permits are still valid and what kind of limits are on them.
stuckey		Jesus, yes.  It's a long shot but if the permits are still in effect, they're worth a fortune.
edward		What time's diner tonight?
stuckey		Eight o'clock.  Kross is bringing his son.  Very bright kid, watch yourself with him.  Who's this girl you're taking?
edward		No one you know.
bridget		You must be Vivian.
vivian		 Georgia.
bridget		No wonder.  For starts, you should know that hot pants are horrid, even when you do have the legs to carry them off.  What are your plans while you're in town?
vivian		Well... I might be going out to dinner.
bridget		You'll want a cocktail dress then.  Turn.  You have a beautiful figure.  A little too out in the open but simply lovely.  Size six? Do you need shoes?
vivian		I dunno.  Do thigh high, leather boots go with a cocktail dress?
bridget		 Philip!  We'll need shoes!
bridget		Your uncle will like this.
vivian		He's not really my uncle.
bridget		They never are, dear.
vivian		I got a dress.
vivian		I didn't want to get it messed. I got shoes too.  Wanna see?
vivian		They were real nice to me there. They treated me, y'know... nice. Thanks, Barney.
vivian		Hello?
edward		Never answer the phone.  Ever.
vivian		Tsk, believe me, this will be the last time.
edward		Did you buy some clothes?
vivian		I got a dress, yeah.
edward		Just one?  Christ... I hope it's appropriate.
vivian		It's very tasteful.  I think you'll especially like the zipper in the crotch.  I'm -- joking.
edward		Let's hope so.  You'll get some more clothes tomorrow.  I'll be pushed for time so meet me in the hotel lobby at seven forty-five sharp.  Got it?
vivian		No, I don't "got it".  Even the farmboys back in Georgia come to the door when they're taking you on a date.
edward		This isn't a date.
vivian		Go by yourself then.  Where you taking me anyway?
edward		The Rex.
vivian		Any good?
edward		I think you'll approve.
vivian		... all right.  I'll meet you in the lobby.  But only cause you're paying me to.
edward		Thank you very much.
vivian		Hello?
edward		I thought I told you not to answer the phone.
vivian		Oooh!
maid		Housekeeping.  I come to turn down the bed.  5:00, I turn down the bed.
vivian		What?
maid		Housekeeping.  I come to turn down the bed.
vivian		Okay.
vivian		Is there a trick to it?
vivian		Is that all?  You just fold back the bedspread?
maid		I also place las chocolates on the pillow.
vivian		Oooh, I love those.
maid		I leave extras, miss.
vivian		Thanks!  Consuelo, are all rich people so lazy they can't do this on their own?
vivian		Barney.
vivian		Edward is taking me to some fancy place for dinner.  The Rex.  Ever been there?
vivian		Yeah, mine too.  Is it like, y'know, normal?
vivian		Will I like it?
vivian		Okay.  Thanks, Barney.  You're the best.
vivian		Fork?
vivian		But I always eat like this.
vivian		Hmmm... I vonder vich. 
vivian		What if they serve soup?
vivian		But what if they serve soup?
vivian		 I like steak.
vivian		Steak spoon! 
vivian		Maybe I'll just order a burger, Barney, that way I can eat with my hands.
vivian		Professionally?
vivian		I have a friend who has a friend who does Cher's wigs.
thane		I hate him already.  All set?
vivian		Yeah... what a ya say we chop it all off and bleach the tips.
thane		Darling?  Trust me.
edward		Of course, yes.  If you'll excuse me just a moment --
edward		My what?
edward		I think we both know she's not my niece.
edward		Thank you.
vivian		You're late.
edward		I'm sorry.
vivian		You're forgiven.
kross		So young man, I understand you are trying to take over my company.
edward		Please don't patronize me, Mr. Kross.  Our ages mean nothing here.
david		Mr. Harris, we know you've purchased at least twenty percent of our stock.  We also know you plan to file a formal bid for a majority share.
edward		Twenty-five percent.
kross		Mr. Harris, I built Kross Enterprises myself.  I know every man who ever worked there by his first name.  I know their wives... and their children.  If your intention is to take over my company and turn it into a glorified real estate deal, think again.
edward		What do you suggest, Mr. Kross?
kross		What would it take to buy our stock back?  Name your price.
edward		To get me in a mood to sell -- double what I paid.  But your company doesn't have enough capital right now to buy anything.
david		We're on the verge of closing a large navy contract.  Double is ridiculous but we can assure you a healthy profit on your shares.  We would give you a promissory note...
edward		You're not getting any navy contracts.
david		There's no way you could know that.
edward		But I do know.  I also know your lines of credit are over-extended. If I don't buy your company, someone else will...  Ah, the escargot.
vivian		 Scume me, what are these things?
waiter		 Escargot, mademoiselle.
edward		 Snails.
edward		Mr. Kross, I'm not here to sell you my stock.  On the contrary, I'm here to buy yours.
kross		 You've got a lot of nerve.
edward		No.  What I have is a lot of money.
kross		I know all about you, Mr. Harris. When you buy companies, they have a way of disappearing.  Even the pension funds are stripped clean. The last three companies you took over were cut up in so many pieces, widows were left without their retirement checks.
edward		 What I did with those companies was perfectly legal.
kross		I don't question the legality of what you do.  It's your morality that makes me sick.  I will not allow my company to be raped by a man like you.
edward		 It is not your company.  It's a public company.  And I am going to acquire it.  Either I buy from the other stock holders, or I buy from you.
vivian		Slippery little suckers...
kross		If you'll excuse me young lady, Mr. Harris...  Deal with this, David, you know where we stand.  I need to go someplace and puke.
david		 Men like my father built this country.  He was no saint.  He screwed people.  But for every guy he stepped on, he gave a hundred a good job.
vivian		He seems like a nice man.
edward		We can reach an understanding on this.
david		I don't think so.  You should know we're going to fight you with every resource we have.
edward		Do what you have to do.  I don't take it personally.
david		I do.  I take it all very personally.  Very nice meeting you, Vivian.
edward		 And that's the way the game is played.
vivian		Some game.  Screwin' some poor slob out of his retirement.
vivian		Snails for dinner.  No wonder everybody is in such a bad mood.
waiter		Are we ready for the next course, sir?
edward		No.  Bring a check, please.
edward		Thank you.
vivian		You're upset, huh?
edward		Upset.  No.  I never get upset about business.
vivian		You liked the guy, though.
edward		Whether I liked him or not is irrelevant.  It's business. There's no emotion involved in business... if you want to survive.
vivian		 Except with you.  At your price I give my all...
edward		That... is very good.
vivian		Know what we're gonna do in a little while then?  We're gonna call Domino's and have'm deliver a bigass pizza.  We're gonna eat it in bed.  We're gonna veg' out and watch television.
edward		Television?
vivian		Yeah, it's this box, it has pictures, sound.  You don't have to use your brain at all.
edward		I have work to do.
vivian		Uh-uh.  No work.
edward		I still don't understand why you only bought one dress.
vivian		I wasn't as much fun as I thought it was going to be.
edward		Why not?
vivian		Well, you know those cold bitches that work in those stores and try to intimidate you?  It works.
edward		Was someone rude to you?
vivian		I had a little problem in one store.  I wasn't dressed right. I don't know what to say.  I don't belong there.  Maybe I'll just go back to Bridget.  She was cool.
edward		Vivian, you belong wherever you are.  I don't care how you were dressed, they were the ones who were wrong, not you.
vivian		 Okay.
edward		Good.
vivian		 Come with me?
vivian		Please.
vivian		 Hello.  Can you help me?
vivian		 I'm looking for a dress, nothing too flashy, not too sexy, conservative.  In a size six.
salesgirl		 Do... do you have a charge account with us?
vivian		 I look like fucking Nancy Reagan.
vance		Kross came out of his corner swinging.  He started buying up all available stock as soon as the market opened.
edward		 He's a tough old son of a bitch...
vance		It's up to ten and a quarter.
edward		Offer nine and a half.  Bring them back down to earth.
stuckey		Goddamit!  Where is he getting the money to fight?
edward		Someone's loaning it to him. Get on it right away.
stuckey		Our contract guys are working on the Kross pension funds. There's another forty million there.  We can bleed'm dry.
edward		 Put the pension funds on hold until I say otherwise.
stuckey		 We're letting them slide?
edward		I want the treatment plant licenses to be top priority right now.
stuckey		But, Edward...
edward		Do it.
edward		 You're on your own now, Vivian. I've got to get to work.  Be sensible and you can keep everything.  Spend too much and it all goes back.
vivian		Not me!
vivian		 Horrid!
vivian		Where'd you get your tie?
saleswoman		 Isn't this lovely?  I think it would look wonderful on you.
saleswoman		 Would you like to try it on?
vivian		'Scume me.
saleswoman		Yes?
vivian		Do you remember me?
saleswoman		No, I'm sorry, I don't.
vivian		I was in here yesterday.
vivian		Yeah.  That's right.  It's me. I want you to know something. You made me feel terrible. I wasn't dressed right and you said I didn't belong here.  Well, I do.  You're the one that was wrong, not me.  And I want to tell you something else.  I'm never gonna shop here again as long as I live.
vivian		Wheee!!!
stuckey		 You were right.  Kross mortgaged everything he has down to his grandson's college tuition to secure loans from a bank.  Not just any bank.  One we do business with.
stuckey		Excuse me for saying this but what is wrong with you this week? First, you go soft on the pension funds.  Now, you're giving him the chance to get away?  As of two minutes ago, you are committed to the tune of over fifty million dollars --
edward		Come on, Bill, don't talk to me about how much money's involved. It's my money.
stuckey		And some of it's mine.  Edward, his jugular's exposed.
edward		Get the bank on the phone for me.
vivian		I thought maybe you'd like dinner.
edward		Thank you.  I would.  Nice.
vivian		Wait till you see what I have on underneath.
edward		Please.
vivian		What about dinner?
edward		Dinner can wait.
vivian		You always been rich?
edward		No.
vivian		Seems like it.  I guess it's easy to get used to, huh?
edward		Easier than learning how to be poor.  My father's family was wealthy. When I was young there were cars and houses, private schools, nannies.  But then my father divorced my mother to marry another woman.  And he took his money with him.
vivian		Keep talkin'.  I like hearin'.
edward		Not much to tell.  I went to public school.  Went to university on scholarship.  Went to work for an investment firm. In eight years I owned it.  My father was chairman of the board of the third company I ever went after.  I swallowed that company and shit out the pieces. One of the pieces was him.
vivian		You still mad at'm?
edward		He died a long time ago.
waiter		You have a call.  Mr. Harris.
vivian		 I'll be ready.  Bye.
vivian		What do you wear to polo?
vivian		You're really pushing it, bringing me here.
edward		I think it's exciting.
vivian		What id we run into someone I know?
edward		I really doubt anyone here frequents Hollywood Boulevard.
vivian		You did.
stuckey		 Well, well, well...
edward		Bill, I'd like you to meet Vivian.
stuckey		 Bill Stuckey, Vivian.  My wife, Elizabeth.
vivian		Hi.
stuckey		Lots of fun people here.  Let me get you two some champagne.
elizabeth stuckey		Excuse me.
vivian		 Real genuine guy.
edward		He's good at what he does.
vivian		You could freeze ice on his wife's ass.  She anything like your ex?
edward		 Shall we mingle?
woman		I simply love your dress, Vivian.
vivian		This old thing?
woman		Of course, a figure like yours can wear anything.  You must work out constantly.
vivian		I lead a very physical life.
older man		Are you into running, Vivian?
vivian		I'm into walking.  I walk a lot.
another man		You look awfully familiar, Vivian. Haven't we run into one another at the spa in La Costa?
vivian		Well, I do often spa there.
elizabeth stuckey		Edward, she's marvelous.  Warm and witty and down to earth.
edward		 She is, isn't she.
elizabeth stuckey		So unlike your usuals.  Where on earth did you find her?
a woman		We're good together.  He has to admit it.  I've been just what he wants me to be.  I say the right things, I know the right people, I give wonderful parties. No question, no arguments, no embarrassments.  It works for both of us.
vivian		Edward, these women here, I don't think any of'm like the guys they're with.  They're just into it for the money.
edward		I'm sure that's true for some of them.
vivian		I thought I was the pro.  These women make me feel like an amateur.
edward		 Ready to stomp sod?
david kross		Hi.
vivian		Hi.  I never thought stomping in grass could be so much fun.
david		 I like your hat.
vivian		Huh?  Oh... yeah.  S'okay?  Uhm... how're... business things going.
david		Let's not talk about it, it's too depressing.  Come on, I'll show you Thunder.
vivian		Please, we hardly know each other.
david		Thunder's a horse.  Come on.
david		Hey, big guy, you getting tired, yet?  I am.  This is Vivian.  You two been together long?  You and Edward?
vivian		No.
david		Hope to be?
vivian		It's... it's not like that.
david		I see.  Well.  Maybe that means you'd have lunch with me sometime then.
vivian		You don't know anything about me.
david		I'd like to find out.  You don't know anything about me either. That's why people have lunch.
stuckey		Fill me in on this.  How'd you and Vivian meet?
edward		We just did.
stuckey		 Come on, you can tell me.  I sure would like to know where a guy runs into a girl as attractive as this.
edward		The night I left your house, I was lost.  I was looking for directions.
stuckey		And you just happened to run into her.  Great.  What's she do?  She work?
edward		Yes...
stuckey		Doing what?
edward		Vivian's in sales.
stuckey		Sales, really?  That's great. What does she sell?
edward		Why do you want to know?
stuckey		Hear me out.  I've known you a long time.  I see a difference in you this week.  Like that tie. I'm suddenly wondering if this girl's not the difference. Especially when I see her talking with David Kross.
edward		She met him at dinner last night... I like this tie.
stuckey		So now they're best friends? Edward, this girl appears out of nowhere and now I see her talking to a guy whose company we're trying to buy.  It's too convenient.
edward		You're being ridiculous.
stuckey		Industrial espionage is not ridiculous.  Edward, how do you know she hasn't attached herself to you so she can bring Kross back information?
edward		Christ, Bill, she's not a spy, she's a hooker.  I picked her up off Hollywood Boulevard.
stuckey		I swear to God, you are the only millionaire I ever heard of who'd go looking for a goddam bargain streetwalker!
edward		Let's drop it, shall we?
man		Edward!  May we have your opinion on something?
edward		 Excuse me a moment.
stuckey		Having a good time, Vivian?
vivian		Yeah.  Thanks.
stuckey		All this must be quite a change from Hollywood Boulevard.
vivian		What?
stuckey		It's okay.  Edward told me.  Your secret's safe with me.
vivian		 Yeah.  Sure.  Why not.  Call me at the Regent Beverly Wilshire.
stuckey		I just might do that.
edward		You're awfully quiet.  You haven't said a word since the party.
vivian		You asshole!  I can't believe what a --!
edward		Vivian, what the --
vivian		Clean the slut up, take her out, huh?!  What are you trying to prove!?  I'm not a piece of meat for you to offer to your friends!
edward		I don't know what you're talking about.
vivian		I've been with stinking old men who've made me want to puke but I've never had anyone make me feel as dirty as you did tonight.
edward		Would you please calm down.  Tell me what happened.
vivian		Stuckey!  He wants an "appointment" with me after you leave.  You my pimp now or did he think that up on his own?
edward		What was I supposed to do?  I told the truth.  Why should the truth upset you?  It's not as if you're from a convent.
vivian		I want my fucking money.  I'm getting out of here.  I don't want anything more to do with you.
edward		Can we talk about this?  Can you just try to calm down?
vivian		Your goddamned friend, he thinks the only reason I'm with you is for the money.
vivian		 Well, it's true.  Just pay me what you owe me and I'm gone.
edward		Vivian...
vivian		Pay me!  Before I pick up this chair and smash your face in.
edward		Fine.  I'm only here a couple of more days and I'm not going to spend them fighting with you.
vivian		Fuck off.
edward		I'll call you a cab.  If you want the clothes, pack them up.
edward		Vivian... I'm sorry.  I wasn't prepared for questions about us. It was an idiotic and insensitive thing I did.  I should have known that it would hurt you.
vivian		I'm not hurt.  It doesn't hurt you when somebody pisses on you, it just pissed you off.
edward		I really am sorry.
vivian		You hurt me.
edward		I'll make it up to you.
stuckey		This is no time to disappear. We're in too far.
edward		Bill?  Stop panicking.  Kross isn't going anywhere and I don't need to spend the rest of the day watching his stock go down.  I'll be in the office tomorrow.
stuckey		Promise me you'll read those contracts by then.
edward		Goodbye, Bill.
stuckey		Shit... By tomorrow, Edward!
edward		Afternoon.
vivian		C'mon, Kit...
vivian		Do I look okay?
edward		 Hmm... let's see... no, there's something missing.
vivian		What's that?
edward		I don't want you to get too excited... these are on loan... however...
edward		This is made for a princess. I think she'd approve of you wearing it tonight.  There. Come look.
vivian		Edward, I can't.
edward		Shush.  Of course you can.
vivian		What if I lose it?
edward		You won't.
vivian		What if someone tries to steal it?
edward		I'll guard them and you with my life.
pilot		Your plane is ready to go, Mr. Harris.
edward		Very good.
vivian		Plane?
edward		You don't want to go all the way to San Francisco in a limousine, do you?  I don't.
vivian		Where are you taking me!?
edward		To meet some friends.  Rudolpho, a poet... Benoit, a landlord... Mimi, a flower maker...
vivian		Huh?
edward		The opera.
vivian		I've never been on a plane before.
edward		I'm glad you like it.  Now be quiet, I've really got to read these.
edward		Vivian, what do you think you're doing?
vivian		Being quiet.
vivian		Sorry.  You're not paying me to ask you question like that.
edward		Vivian.  I'm paying you to be you.  Be you.  Have you?  Ever been in love with anyone?
vivian		You mean, besides Elvis?  I'm a human being.  Sure.  Once. First time I ever ran away from home, I got as far as Atlanta. I met this boy.  He'd been with his parents on their way to Chicago.  They stopped at a gas station.  He went to the john. When he came back they'd split. We sorta started looking out for each other.  Aw, he was sweet. And boy, was he good looking, y'know, dark hair and eyes. The chicken hawks were on him all the time.  He hated that. Sometimes we'd find a safe place to crash nights and we'd curl up together and we'd talk about all these crazy things.  The two of us getting married someday. Having kids.  Stupid stuff.
edward		What happened to him?
vivian		My father found me.  Dragged me home.  I don't know why, he never seemed to like me much when I was there.  I made it back to Atlanta a year later.  Andy was gone.
vivian		Aw, but things sure look fine when you're sitting way up high.
edward		Some people say that opera is an acquired taste, but I don't believe it.  You can always tell when someone goes to the opera for the first time.  They either love it or hate it.  Those who love it will always love it; those who hate it might come to appreciate it, but they'll never truly love it.
edward		Viv?  I really doubt if anyone here is going to try and grab it.
edward		They all think you look very beautiful, Vivian.
vivian		If it's in Italian, how will I know what they're saying?
edward		I'll whisper some of the main parts of the story to you.  But you'll be surprised how much you understand.  The music conveys the story more powerfully than any words.
vivian		But don't they have it in English?
edward		Vivian, don't be afraid of what you don't know.  That's the fun of it.
vivian		 Okay.  Even if I hate it, I'm glad you brought me.
edward		What am I?  I am a poet.  Not a man of wealth but one rich in dreams.  You have come to replace my vanished dreams.  I dwell now only in your eyes.
edward		And now she asks Rudolpho if he still thinks her beautiful --
older woman		Did you enjoy the opera, dear?
vivian		 It was so beautiful I just about pissed my pants.
edward		If you'd gone on about how much you liked it, I'm not sure I'd have believed you.
vivian		I more than liked it.
edward		I know.  I'm glad.
vivian		Did you?
edward		Yes.  I've never enjoyed it more. Thank you.
vivian		Love you...
edward		Yes?
stuckey		Did I wake you?
edward		I'm up.
stuckey		I had to call.  I jus got off the phone with James Kross.  Get this.  He wants to see you. Today.
edward		Why?
stuckey		He wouldn't say.  Edward... I think we got him.  His nuts are on the block and we got him.  You there?
edward		Give me twenty minutes.
stuckey		We'll be there.  Listen, if he's really caving in, we'll go from there down to the office.  I want him to commit his stock to us this morning.
vivian		Mmm.  Hi.
edward		Better get dressed.  We're having guests.
vivian		Here.  Let me.
edward		 One more night and you're finally rid of me.
vivian		Yeah, you've been pretty tough to take.
edward		I have to go to New York tomorrow.
vivian		 What else?  You gonna leave some cash by the bed when you pass through town?
edward		It wouldn't be like that.  I want to get you off the street.  You'll have a different kind of life. What's wrong with that?
vivian		I'm sorry.  That's very sweet, Edward, and I know you mean it...
edward		Vivian, I've thought about this a lot.  This is the best solution.
vivian		 When I was a little girl, my mother locked me in the attic when I was bad, which was pretty often. I'd stare out the window up there and make believe I was a princess trapped in the tower by the wicked queen.  Then suddenly a knight on a white horse with his bright colors flying would ride up. Rescue me from the tower, and then we'd ride off... but never, ever in all the times I had that dream did the knight say, "Come on baby, I'll put you up in a great condo."
edward		Vivian, life's not a fairy tale.
vivian		 I'll think about it, okay?  It's a real good offer for a whore.
edward		I've never treated you like a whore.
vivian		 You just did.
kross		Mr. Harris.
edward		How are you, Mr. Kross.
kross		Not bad for a man who hasn't slept in four nights.  I'll get used to it.
kross		Young lady.
vivian		Hello.  Hi.
david		Hello, Vivian.
stuckey		Let's not waste time here, shall we?  Mr. Kross, you said this morning, you wished to speak with Mr. Harris.  Mr. Harris is now listening.
kross		Yes.  I'm here to tell you that I've reconsidered my position on your acquisition offer.
edward		Expected... offer.
kross		Of course, yes.  After the expected filing period is over, I'm going to recommend to the board that we accept your bid.
edward		 You're making the right decision, sir.
kross		I'll see you on one condition. I'm not so concerned for me but the people who have worked for me...
stuckey		 They'll be taken care of.  Won't they, Edward?
kross		I'll sign anything you want then.
stuckey		Today.
kross		Today.
edward		Excuse me, please?
vivian		Hello.  Is Kit DeLuca there? When she comes in will you have her call Vivian Wells at 560-30000. Yes.  Okay.
vivian		What did you do to him?
edward		What do you mean?
vivian		Last time I saw him he was this strong guy.  Now he's beaten. And you liked him.
edward		Vivian, I want you to listen to me.  The man realized that it would be better for his future and his son's future, if he cooperated.
vivian		Right.
edward		It's not your concern.  It's... business, that's all.
vivian		Business.
edward		Yes.  The man made a business decision.
vivian		It's all just business to you. Him.  Me.  Your life. Everything's business.
edward		It's what I do for a living. It's how I make money.
edward		I'll be back in a few hours. We'll talk about this later.
edward		We'll continue this down at the office.
vivian		Lo?
vivian		Me?
kit		Viv?  Where are you, babe?  The sphincter-police won't let me through.
vivian		Yes, I'm glad you're clean but I've been calling and calling.
kit		Was that you?
vivian		Who did you think?
kit		Carlos.  I still owe him two hundred bucks...
vivian		Kit, I left that money for you days ago.
kit		Yeah.  I just got it.
kit		Fifty bucks, grampa.  For seventy-five, the wife can watch.
vivian		Kit...
kit		Everybody keeps starin' at me.
vivian		Yeah... I know what you mean.
kit		What do you know?  You look good. All dressed up.  You sure don't fit in down on the Boulevard, lookin' like you do.  Not that you ever did anyway.
vivian		You think I fit here where they just about chew your food for you?
kit		Where do you fit?
vivian		 I kissed him, Kit.  On the mouth.
kit		Honey, you're not supposed to do that.
vivian		I know.  I stopped pretending and started liking it with him for real.
kit		Oh, my god, you mean it was good?
vivian		 It was great.
kit		Dummy.
vivian		He wants to set me up in a place, give me some money.
kit		I pray for that.
vivian		 All I'm doing is feeling lousy about it.  I don't know what to do.  What do I do, Kit?
kit		Go for the bucks.
vivian		I don't care about bucks.  I might love this guy.
kit		Wow, are you in deep shit.  You know he'll break your heart.
jake		Congratulations, sir.
edward		What?
jake		Mr. Kross is just getting off the phone with his stock broker. It's finished.  You've won.
jake		Who are you going after next, sir?
edward		Who indeed...
stuckey		If we can get these letters of intent out of the way now... Mr. Harris and I would like to ask you some questions about your company.
david		Dad, excuse me, but that's inappropriate.  You're under no obligation to answer any questions at all.
kross		Could we at least wait till after the filing period?
stuckey		Mr. Harris is preparing a bid based on our speculation of the corporation's net worth.  The price he ultimately pays for your father's stock will be based on that bid.  The more we know, the higher our bid can be.
kross		It's in my best interest to cooperate, David.
david		If he throws himself on your sword, you promise to take care of him and his family, huh?
stuckey		That's unfair!
david		You bed it is.  Do what you have to do, Dad. Just don't expect me to watch it.
kross		He's young.  He hasn't learned how to lose gracefully yet.  I'll sign your papers.  And I'll answer your questions.  Whatever you want.
edward		Stop.  For just a moment.  Mr. Kross, I'd like to ask you a few questions before you sign. You realize that you're a target. If you weren't mine, you'd be someone elses, correct?
kross		Yes.
edward		If you had a... reprieve, what would do?
stuckey		 I don't think there's any sense in --
edward		Let him answer.
kross		I... I would take advantage of it.
edward		How?
kross		I... I don't know.  There... there wasn't time...
edward		I suppose you'd find out soon enough that you have assets you presently don't seem aware of, wouldn't you?  The waste processing licenses at that abandoned shipyard of yours, you'd certainly find out about that.
stuckey		Oh, my god... Edward, no!
edward		I suppose you'd use them as collateral on new loans, wouldn't you?
stuckey		Have you lost your mind?
kross		 Would I get the loans?
edward		This time I imagine you would, yes.  With all this in mind, Mr. Kross, I can't logically make a formal bid on your company, can I?
kross		 You'd be initiating a financial battle you'd ultimately lose, Mr. Harris.
edward		You're very right.  I think the best thing we could all do is go home.
stuckey		What!?
edward		Have a good day, gentlemen.
stuckey		 Edward, what happened?  What kind of move was that?
stuckey		 Dammit Edward, speak to me.
edward		No... take the car back to the hotel.  I need to walk.
stuckey		Well, well... Hello again.  I'm looking for Edward.
vivian		Edward's not back.  I thought he was with you.
stuckey		No, I'll just have to wait then, won't I?
vivian		No.
stuckey		Do you want to know what he did? Do you want to know what the crazy son of a bitch did?  He handed the whole thing back to Kross! On a silver platter.  For no reason!  What was he thinking, I mean, what was going through his goddam head?  Why?  What was all that benevolent crap?  What are we going to become, a philanthropic foundation?  I'll probably be the director of several worthwhile charities.
vivian		I think it's great.
stuckey		I bet.  A lousy whore and you're the gum in a hundred million dollar deal.
vivian		 Aw, come on, Bill.  It's just business.
stuckey		But what do I know, maybe you're worth it.  Come on, show me. Let's see your act.
vivian		Get out!
stuckey		Don't worry.  I'll pay for it. What a you charge?  Huh?  Twenty, thirty, fifty bucks, maybe?  Are you a fifty dollar whore?
vivian		Are you crazy?
stuckey		You got a mean streak in you, don't you.
stuckey		You broke my nose.
edward		I think I broke my hand.  You're fired.
stuckey		Edward, we've been together ten years.
edward		And I don't like what we've become.  I'll cover any losses you have on this one.  Now get out, you asshole!
stuckey		All this because of that whore!
edward		Yes.
stuckey		Edward, think about what you're --
edward		 Well, I didn't plan that!
vivian		Why do guys always know how to hit a woman?  Right across the cheek, wham, so it feels like your eye is gonna explode.  What do they do, take you all aside in high school and show you how? It pisses me off!
edward		Not all men hit.  And no one is going to hit you anymore.
vivian		Right.  I heard what you did with Kross.
edward		It was a business decision.
edward		I got tired of hating my father.
vivian		 It was good.
edward		It felt good.
edward		You're packing.
vivian		 Don't ya see?  If I stay with you like you want me to, there'll always be some guy, your friends eve, treatin' me like that... thinkin' they're allowed to.  What are you gonna do, fight'm all? No.  I'll take my money now, please.
vivian		Aw, don't... no...
edward		Stay with me tonight.  Not because you're being paid to. Stay with me because you want to.
vivian		I do.  I do want to.  That's why I'm leaving.  That's what you given me, see? I know what I want now.  I want a guy like you for real.  Not because you buy me things and give me money.  The nicest thing you ever done for me is hold my hand. You gonna give me that?
vivian		I didn't think so.
edward		Vivian...
vivian		It's not your fault.  You're right.  Kit's right.  But I want the fairy tale.
bellman		Let me take those, miss.
vivian		Thanks.
vivian		I'll be out front in a minute. I got a cab comin'.
vivian		Hi, Barney!
vivian		Look I just wanted to say goodbye.
vivian		Yeah, well, I check out today.
vivian		 You don't know how to treat a girl like anything but a lady, Mr. Thomas.
driver		You're sure this is the right street, ma'am?
vivian		Yes. 1312.  It's a big apartment building.
limo driver		Maybe I should go with you.  This doesn't look like a good place for a lady to be alone.
vivian		I'll be okay.  I'm home.  Thank you.
landlord		Hey, we announce guests here. You a relative of somebody?
vivian		Yeah, it's me.
landlord		You lookin' good, Viv'.  Nice threads.  I gotta find time to shop.
bellman		Is that everything, sir?
edward		 That's everything.
maid		The lady, she go?
edward		Yes.  She go.
bellhop		Do you have a car taking you to the airport, sir?
edward		Yes.
kit		So whatta' you going to do in San Francisco?
vivian		Get a job and probably go back to school.  Figure out what I'm gonna be.
kit		What kind of school?
vivian		School, school.  Regular.  I used to get pretty good grades in school, you know.
kit		So did I.  I made it with the principal.  Study hard And get a "B."  Lift your dress and an "A" you'll see.
vivian		Want a pair of boots?
kit		Do I!?  Momma!
vivian		You sure you won't come with me?
kit		And leave all this?  Not in a million.
vivian		Couple a hours.
kit		Yeah.  Well... I gotta split. Goodbye's make me crazy.
vivian		Cool your jets a second.  Here's some money.
kit		No.  You took care of rent, that's enough.
vivian		I want to.  For food, got it? Eat something before the wind blows you away.
kit		I'm gonna pay you back next time I see ya, babe.  Just wait, I'm gonna do something real nice for you some day.
kit		Coffee, Chan.  And maybe a grilled cheese on white, okay?
kit		Hey, how you doin'.  You new, huh?
girl		Yeah.  Got a cigarette?
kit		Sure.
girl		Jeez, did the wacko in the suit.
kit		Chan?  Keep the sandwich warm, I'll be back.
edward		I'm looking for a girl, Vivian, young, dark hair, big eyes...?
edward		She's mouthy.  Sort of difficult...?
prostitute 1		Ain't seen her, wouldn't know her.
prostitute 2		What's wrong with us, man?  Two for the price a one, what ya say?
edward		 Thank you.  No.
vivian		You are really lost this time.
****Dialogues from script :Pretty_Woman_(final_script).txt****

philip		A penny from the ear. How much for the rest ?
philip		Have you seen Edward ?  THE YOUNG MAN No, I haven't. Great party, Philip.
philip		Well, my wife went to a lot of trouble : she called a caterer.
philip		Excuse me, Ann. Howard, how are you ?
howard		Philip, good. Hey, I understand Edward's taking over Morse Industries.
philip		Yeah, well, he's not here to get a suntan.
howard		Can I get in on it ?
philip		Yeah. Call me.
howard		When ?
philip		Just call me.
philip		Uh, hi. I'm Philip Stuckey, Edward Lewis's lawyer.
the guest		Hey, where's the guest of honor anyway ?
philip		Well, if I know this fellow, he's probably off in a corner somewhere charming a very pretty lady.
philip		How are you ?
edward		I told my secretary to make the arrangements. Didn't she call you ?
edward		I see.
edward		This is a very important week for me. I need you here.
edward		I do not believe that you are at my beck and call.
edward		If that's what you want, yes.
edward		Now is as good a time as any.
edward		Good-bye, Jessica.
young man		Phil suggested that maybe I should take a lawy...
edward		Phil is just my lawyer, okay ?
young man		Yes, sir.
edward		How did the Morse stock open at the Nikkei ?
young man		I don't know.
edward		You don't know ? Tokyo opened maybe ninety minutes ago. You have to keep on top of these things, all right ?
young man		Done.
charming woman		Hello, Mr. Lewis.
edward		Hi. How're you doing ?
edward		I want this whole thing... wrapped up as soon as possible. I gotta get to New York by Sunday. I got tickets to the Met.
young man		Yes, sir.
servant		Your coat, Mr. Lewis.
edward		Thank you.
susan		Edward !
edward		Susan !
susan		Hi.
edward		Hi.
susan		I was sorry to hear about Carter.
edward		Oh, yeah. Thanks. Heard you got married.
susan		Well... yeah. I couldn't wait for you !
edward		Mmm... Mmm... Susan, tell me something.
susan		Yes ?
edward		When you and I were dating, did you speak to my secretary more than you spoke to me ?
susan		She was one of my bridesmaids.
edward		Hmm. Your husband's a very lucky guy.
edward		Bye.
susan		Thanks, bye.
philip		Do you ?  THE RED-HAIR WOMAN Absolutely.
philip		Wonderful.
elizabeth		He's leaving. Edward's leaving.
philip		Excuse me.
philip		Edward, where you going ?
edward		You got the keys to your car ?
philip		Why, what's wrong with the limo ?
edward		Look, the limo is buried back there. Darryl can't get it out.
philip		Mmm.
edward		Please give me the keys.
philip		All right, look. I don't think you should drive. You're a little excited. Don't drive my car. Let me work something out here.
philip		Fellas, what kind of a system is this ? Can you move these cars out of here ?
philip		Look, Edward. Edward... Uh, are you familiar with a stick shift ?
edward		Uh, yeah.
philip		Have you driven a shift ?
edward		Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
philip		Listen, all right. Just be ginger with it. Don't...
philip		It's a new car. Don't, uh... Just don't...
edward		Okay. I can do it.
philip		Edward ! Give me a break, please !
edward		I love this car.
philip		I love it too. Look, you don't even know where you're going. You're gonna get lost in the dark !
lyrics		I don't need to fall at your feet. Just 'cause you cut me to the bone. And I won't miss the way that you kiss me.
lyrics		We were never carved in stone. If I don't listen to the talk of the town. Then maybe I can fool myself. I'll get over you I know I will. I'll pretend my ship's not sinking. And I'll tell myself I'm over you.
lyrics		'Cause I'm the king of wishful thinking.
prostitute		Well, here I am.
lyrics		Well, I'm just goin' to school like I'm real, real cool. Gotta dance like a fool Got the message.
lyrics		And I gotta be a wild one Ooh, yeah. I'm a wild one.
lyrics		Gonna break it loose. Gonna keep on moving wild.
lyrics		Gonna keep on swinging, baby I'm a real wild child.
lyrics		Gonna meet all my friends. Gonna have myself a ball. Gonna tell my friends. Gonna tell them all.  VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT
lyrics		That I'm a wild one. Ooh, yeah I'm a wild one.
lyrics		Gonna break the news. Gonna keep on moving wild. Gonna keep on swinging, baby. I'm a real wild child.
lyrics		I'm a real wild one and I like wild fun. In a world going crazy everything seems hazy.
lyrics		I'm a wild one. Ooh, yeah, I'm a wild one. Gonna break the news Gonna keep on moving wild.
lyrics		Gonna keep on swinging, baby I'm a real wild child.
skateboard man		Have a good one.
the policeman		Detective Albertson. What do you know about that girl ?
the policeman		Come on, guy. We just pulled her out of a Dumpster in the back. Who was her pimp ?
the policeman		Hey, hey, hey ! Excuse me ! Excuse me ! What are you, from the press ?
the policeman		Oh, I don't believe this. Do you... I got tourists photographing the body, Al.
lyrics		In a world that can be so insane. I don't think it's very strange for me to be in love with you.
lyrics		I wanna know more than your brain. Vivian walks to the bar. The bartender is an older man, nicknamed Pops.
vivian		Hey, Pops, has Kit been in here ?
pops		Upstairs in the poolroom.
lyrics		Not something that I respected. And now I smile for your affection. We have made a soul connection.
lyrics		Just for whom does your bell toll. Don't be cruel. Show me your soul.
kit		Yo, Viv ! Vivian doesn't smile back at her, and looks even a bit angry.
vivian		Is it all gone ?
kit		Carlos, you know my roommate, Vivian. This is Angel. That's the Dude.
vivian		I know everybody ! Is it all gone, Kit ?
kit		Carlos sold me some great shit. We just had this party. I was the hostess.
vivian		I can't believe you bought drugs with our rent. What is going on with you, Kit ? Vivian grabs Kit's arm and makes her stand up.
kit		I needed a little pick-me-up.
vivian		Well, we need rent money !
carlos		Yo, calm down, chica. She only owes me 200 more.
kit		Carlos !
vivian		Another 200 dollars ?
kit		That was from way before.
carlos		That's right, 200, Vivian. But if you wanna work off her money with me, we can work something out.
kit		That's a very sweet offer, Carlos, but not now.
kit		Come on, Viv. Come downstairs.
vivian		Work out... Work out what ? What are we gonna work out ? When they are gone, the girl named Angel looks at Carlos.
angel		You really like her, Carlos ?
vivian		You took it while I was sleeping ?
kit		You were unavailable for consultation.
kit		Hey, let's go. Snack ! Snack ! She has reached the bar and starts picking bits of food in plates on the counter.
kit		Besides, it's my apartment.
vivian		Yeah, well, I have to live there too, Kit.
kit		Look, you came here. I gave you some money. I gave you a place to stay...
kit		...and some valuable vocational advice. He was on my case. I had to give him something.
kit		So don't irritate me.
pops		This ain't a buffet, Kit.
vivian		Irritate you ? Irritate you ? I just saw a girl pulled out of a Dumpster.
kit		I know. Skinny Marie. But... she was a... a flake. She was a crack head. Dominic was trying to straighten her out for months.
vivian		Don't you want to get out of here ?
kit		Get out of where ? Where the fuck you wanna go ?  SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR NIGHT
the tramp		Aah, nothing but garbage.
the tramp		Huh ?
the tramp		You're here !
the tramp		You're welcome.
kit		Hey, yo, Rachel.
rachel		What ?
kit		Yeah. You see the stars on the sidewalk, babe ? She is mentioning the stars of the Walk of Fame, embedded in the sidewalk of the boulevard.
rachel		Yeah.
kit		Well, Vivian and me, we work Bob Hope, we work the Ritz Brothers, we work Fred Astaire, we work all the way down to Ella Fitzgerald. This is our turf. We got seniority. You better get off our corner.
rachel		Forgive me. I was just taking a rest here. Besides, she's new.
kit		Yeah. Well, I'm old, so go rest up by Monty Hall or Esther Wilson.
rachel		Williams.
kit		Esther Williams ! Where you belong !
rachel		Back off, Kit. You know, you're really becoming a grouch.
kit		Am I really a grouch ?
vivian		Yes. Sometimes.
kit		Well, just 'cause I'm hungry. I'm gonna go get something to eat.
kit		Hey, yo, baby !
kit		Dream on !
vivian		It's looking really slow tonight.
kit		Yeah, well... maybe we should get a pimp, you know. Carlos really digs you.
vivian		And then he'll run our lives and take our money. No.
kit		You're right. We say who, we say when, we say how much.
vivian		Do you think I look like Carol Channing ?
kit		No ! I love this look. It's very glamorous. Glamour choice.
kit		Oh, yo, oh, yo. Catch this !
vivian		Wait a minute. That's a Lotus Esprit.
kit		No, that's rent. You should go for him. You look hot tonight. Don't take less than a hundred. Call me when you're through. Take care of you.
vivian		Take care of you.
edward		Yes, you can handle this.
vivian		Hey, sugar, you looking for a date ?
edward		No, I wanna find Beverly Hills. Can you give me directions ?
vivian		Sure. For five bucks.
edward		Ridiculous.
vivian		Price just went up to ten.
edward		You can't charge me for directions.
vivian		I can do anything I want to, baby. I ain't lost.
edward		All right, okay ?
carlos		Is that Vivian ?
another man		Where ?
vivian		For twenty, I'll show you personal. Even show you where the stars live.
edward		Oh, that's all right. I already been to Stallone's.
vivian		Right. Uh, down the street.
carlos		Vivian, did you forget ? I told you don't take no dates tonight.
vivian		Let's go.
vivian		Look, I use condoms always. I get checked out once a month at the free clinic. Not only am I better in the sack than an amateur, I am probably safer.
edward		I like that. That's very good. Should have that printed on your business card.
vivian		If you're making fun of me, I don't like it.
edward		No, I'm not making fun of you.  HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT
edward		No, I'm not making... I'm not. I wouldn't offend you. I'm sorry.
edward		What's your name ?
vivian		What do you want it to be ?
vivian		Vivian. My name is Vivian.
edward		Vivian.
vivian		Man, this baby must corner like it's on rails !
edward		I beg your pardon ?
vivian		Well, doesn't it blow your mind ? This is only four cylinders.
edward		You know about cars. Where did that come from ?
vivian		Road and Track. The boys back home I grew up with, they were really into American heavy metal : Mustangs, Corvettes.
edward		Ah.  LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT
vivian		They bought them cheap and fixed them up. I paid attention. So how is it you know so little about cars ?
edward		My first car was a limousine.
vivian		Oh.
edward		So where is this...
edward		...heavy metal... home ?
vivian		Milledgeville, Georgia. You know, I think you left your transmission back there. You're not shifting right. This is a standard H.
edward		Standard H. Like I know what that means.
edward		Have you ever driven a Lotus ?
vivian		No.
edward		You're gonna start right now.  HOLLYWOOD - A WIDE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT
vivian		You're joking.
edward		No. It's the only way I can get you off my coat.
vivian		Fasten your seat belts. I am taking you for the ride of your life. I'm gonna show you what this car can really do. Are you ready ?
edward		I am ready.
vivian		Hang on.
edward		Okay.
vivian		Here we go.
vivian		This has pedals like a race car. They're really close together. So it's probably easier for a woman to drive, because they have little feet. Except me. I wear a size nine.
vivian		You know your foot's as big as your arm from your elbow to your wrist ?
vivian		Did you know that ?
edward		No, I didn't know that.
vivian		It's a little bit of trivia.
edward		Tell me, what kind of... what kind of money you girls make these days ? Ballpark.
vivian		Can't take less than a hundred dollars.
edward		A hundred dollars a night ?
vivian		For an hour.
edward		An hour ? You make a hundred dollars an hour and you got a safety pin holding your boot up ? You gotta be joking.
vivian		I never joke about money.
edward		Neither do I. Hundred dollars an hour. Pretty stiff.
vivian		Well, no. But it's got potential.
hotel attendant		Good evening, Mr. Lewis. Will you be needing the car anymore tonight ?
vivian		Ah. You're here.
edward		Yeah. He looks at her for a couple of second, before talking again.
edward		So you'll be all right ?
vivian		Yeah, I'm gonna grab a cab with my twenty bucks.
edward		Go back to your office.
vivian		Yeah. My office. Yeah.
edward		Well, thanks for the ride.
vivian		See you.
edward		Good-bye.
vivian		No, I like the bus. Edward walks to the bench on which Vivian is sitting.
edward		I was thinking... Did you really say a hundred dollars an hour ?
vivian		Yeah.
edward		Yeah... Well, if you don't have any prior engagements, I'd be very pleased if you would accompany me into the hotel.
vivian		You got it. She gets off the bench and laughs.
vivian		What is your name ?
edward		Edward.
vivian		Edward. That's my favorite name in the whole world !
edward		No ?!
vivian		I tell you what, this is fate, Edward. That's what this is.
edward		Why don't you put this on ?
vivian		Why ?
edward		Well, this hotel is not the kind of establishment that rents rooms by the hour.
vivian		Ah.  REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT
vivian		Wow !
edward		You're gonna be fine. Come with me. And stop fidgeting. Another medium shots on seated guests staring at the couple.
female receptionist		Good evening, Mr. Lewis.
edward		Hello. You have messages ?
female receptionist		Yes, we have several.
edward		Thank you.
edward		Could you send up some champagne and strawberries, please ?
female receptionist		Of course.
female receptionist		Room service for Mr. Lewis, please.
vivian		Oh, honey. You know what's happened ? I've got a runner in my pantyhose.
vivian		I'm not wearing pantyhose.
vivian		Well, color me happy ! There's a sofa in here for two.
edward		First time in an elevator.
vivian		Sorry, I couldn't help it.
edward		Try.
dennis		Penthouse.
vivian		The penthouse. Mmmm !
edward		Yes.
edward		To the left.
vivian		Oh.
edward		Oh, I miss keys.
edward		Impressed ?
vivian		You kidding me ? I come here all the time. As a matter of fact, they do rent this room by the hour.
edward		Sure they do. Edward has been taking a newspaper left by an attendant on a small table near the front door. He crosses the room and and drops the newspaper on the desk. He sits down behind the desk, and starts looking through his mail, while Vivian walks out on the terrace.
edward		I'll take your word for it, because I don't go out there.
vivian		Why don't you go out there ?
edward		I'm afraid of heights.
vivian		You are ?
vivian		So how come you rented the penthouse ?
edward		It's the best. I looked all around for penthouses on the first floor, but I can't find one.
vivian		Well, now that you have me here, what are you going to do with me ?
edward		Want to know something ? I don't have a clue.
vivian		No ?
edward		I hadn't exactly planned this.
vivian		Well, do you plan everything ?
edward		Always.
vivian		Yeah. Me too. She sits down on an armchair.
vivian		I'm actually... No, I'm not a planner. I wouldn't say I was a planner. I would say I was, hum, a kind of fly by the seat of my pants girl. You know, moment to moment. That's me. That's... Yeah.
vivian		Mm-hmm. You know, you could pay me. That's one way to maybe break the ice.
edward		Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. Uh, I assume cash is acceptable.
vivian		Cash works for me, yeah.
edward		You're on my fax.
vivian		Well, that's one I haven't been on before.
edward		Cute. Very cute. Thank you.
vivian		All right. Here we go. Pick one. I got red, I got green, I got yellow. I'm out of purple, but I do have one gold circle coin left. The condom of champions. The one and only. Nothing is getting through this sucker. What d'you say ? Hmm ?
edward		A buffet of safety.
vivian		I'm a safety girl.
vivian		All right, let's get one of these on you.
edward		No, no. I...
edward		Why don't we just talk for a little bit, okay ?
vivian		Talk. Yeah... uh... okay. Edward, are you in town on, uh, business or pleasure ?
edward		Business, I think.
vivian		Business, you think.
vivian		Well... let me guess.
vivian		That would make you... a lawyer.
edward		A lawyer ?
vivian		Mm-hmm.
edward		What makes you think I'm a lawyer ?
vivian		You've got that, um... sharp, useless look about you.
edward		I bet you've known a lot of lawyers.
vivian		I've known a lot of everybody.
vivian		What is that ?
edward		Champagne.
vivian		Oh ! Well. Might as well make myself useful. Take a load off.
vivian		Hi.
vivian		Where would we like it ?
edward		Uh, over by the bar.
vivian		Excuse me !
edward		Thank you.
vivian		What are you looking at ?
vivian		What is he looking at ?
edward		Ah, yes. Here you go. Thank you very much.
vivian		A tip. Wow. I missed that one. Oh.  Stupid.
edward		Don't worry about it. Edward sets the champagne glasses on the bar.
vivian		You mind if I take my boots off ?
edward		Not at all.
vivian		So, do you have a wife ? Girlfriend ?
edward		I have both.
vivian		Where are they ? Shopping together ?
edward		My ex-wife... is now in Long Island... in my ex-home... with my ex-dog.
edward		There you go.
edward		My ex-girlfriend, Jessica, is in New York... moving out of my apartment even as we speak.
edward		Why don't you try a strawberry ?
vivian		Why ?
edward		It brings out the flavor in the champagne.
vivian		Oh, groovy. She takes a strawberry and eats it. Edward closes the bowl and brings it back on the bar. He sits down on a stool.
vivian		Pretty good. Don't you drink ?
edward		No.
vivian		Listen, I... I appreciate this whole seduction scene you've got going, but let me give you a tip : I'm a sure thing, okay ? So, I'm on an hourly rate. Could we just move it along ?
edward		Somehow I'm sensing that this time problem is a major issue with you.
edward		Why don't we just get through that right now ?
vivian		Great, let's get started.
edward		How much for the entire night ?
vivian		Stay here ?   You couldn't afford it.
edward		Try me.
vivian		Three hundred dollars.
edward		Done. Thank you. Now we can relax.
vivian		Are you sure you want me to stay for the entire night ? I mean, I could just pop you good and be on my way.
edward		To tell you the truth, I don't feel like being alone tonight.
vivian		Why ? Is it your birthday or something ?
edward		No.
vivian		I mean, I have been the party at a couple of birthdays.
edward		I bet you have.
vivian		So what do you want me to do ?
edward		I don't know. I really don't know.
vivian		I'll be out in just a minute. That champagne kind of got to me.
edward		I didn't hear you. What did you say ? Vivian hides something behind her back, but her hand in her back can be seen in one of the bathroom mirror.
vivian		Uh... I said I'd be out in just a minute.
edward		What is... What do you have in, uh, your hand there ? What are you hiding ?
vivian		Nothing.
edward		All right, look. I do not want any drugs here. I don't want any of this. Get your things and your money and please leave. She gets rid of his hand.
vivian		I don't do drugs, all right ? I... I stopped doing drugs when I was fourteen.
edward		What is this ? What is this ?
edward		This is dental floss.
vivian		Yeah ? So ? I had all those strawberry seeds. And you shouldn't neglect your gums.
edward		I'm sorry. Please continue.
vivian		Thank you.
vivian		Are you gonna watch ?
edward		No, I'm going. He gives the handbag back to her.
vivian		Thank you.
edward		It's just that, uh, very few people surprise me.
vivian		Yeah, well, you're lucky. Most of them shock the hell out of me.
vivian		You're watching.
edward		I'm going. He closes the door. Vivian starts cleaning her teeth with dental floss.
edward		Uh-huh. I've got them from London. I need them now from Tokyo. I'll call down and get them when I want them. Thank you very much.
vivian		I have a little carpet picnic here. Are you sure you don't want a drink ?
edward		I'm high on life. Can't you tell ?
vivian		What do you want ?
edward		What do you do ?
vivian		Everything. But I don't kiss on the mouth.
edward		Neither do I.
barney		Good morning, gentlemen.  ONE OF THE UNIFORMED ATTENDANT Good morning, Mr. Thompson.
barney		Good morning, good morning.
another attendant		Good morning, sir.
barney		Good morning, Marjorie.
edward		Of course Morse is going to fight. It's to be expected. He's run his company for a very long time now. I don't think he's ready to have his name taken off the stationery.
philip		He wants to meet you face to face, hmm...
edward		Sure, you wouldn't. But do it anyhow. Tonight. Dinner. Set it up.
philip		Oh, Edward, Edward. I... Look, it's really not a good idea that you see him.
philip		Definitely not alone.   ...we could wind up in court.
edward		Well, you know, there's always a possibility things are gonna go wrong.
edward		That's why I enjoy this so much. Oh, by the way, Phil, about your car.
philip		Oh, God. What ?
edward		It corners like it's on rails.
philip		What ? What does that mean ?
vivian		Hi.
edward		Well, good morning.
vivian		Red.
edward		Better.
vivian		Y...You didn't wake me. I can see you're really busy. I'm gonna be out of here in just a minute.
edward		No, there's no hurry. Are you hungry ? You must be.
edward		Why don't you sit and have something to eat ?
edward		I, uh, took the liberty of ordering everything on the menu.
edward		I didn't know what you'd like.
vivian		Thanks.
edward		All right ? Good.
edward		Did you sleep well ?
vivian		Yeah, too good.
edward		Occupational hazard ?
vivian		Yeah. Did you sleep ?
edward		Uh, yes, a little, on the couch.
edward		I was, uh, working last night.
vivian		You don't sleep, you don't do drugs, you don't drink, you hardly eat. What do you do, Edward ? Because I know you're not a lawyer.
edward		That's right.
edward		There are four other chairs here.
vivian		Oh.
vivian		So what do you do ?
edward		I buy companies.
vivian		What kind of companies ?
edward		Uh, I buy companies that are in financial difficulty.
vivian		If they have problems, you must get them for a bargain, huh ?
edward		Well, the company I'm buying this week, I'm getting for the bargain price of about one billion.
vivian		A billion dollars ?
edward		Yes.
vivian		Wow. You must be really smart, huh ?
vivian		I only got through the eleventh grade. How far did you go in school ?
edward		I went all the way.
vivian		Your folks must be really proud, huh ?
vivian		So you don't actually have a billion dollars, huh ?
edward		No, I get some of it from banks, investors. It's not an easy thing to do.
vivian		And you don't make anything.
edward		No.
vivian		And you don't build anything.
edward		No.
vivian		So what do you do with the companies once you buy them ?
edward		I sell them.
vivian		Here, let me do that.
vivian		You sell them ?
edward		Well, I... don't sell the whole company. I break it up into pieces... and then I sell that off. It's worth more than the whole. Close Up shot on Edward's necktie, and Vivian's hands knotting it.
vivian		So it's sort of like, um, stealing cars and selling them for the parts, right ?
edward		Yeah, sort of. But legal.
edward		Mm-hmm.
edward		Not bad. Not bad at all. Where'd you learn to do that ?
vivian		Well, I screwed the debate team in high school.
vivian		I had a grandpa ! He was nice to me. He liked ties on Sundays. Mind if I, um, take a swim in your tub before I go ?
edward		Not at all. Just stay in the shallow end. He goes out of the bathroom, followed, a couple of seconds later, by Vivian.
philip		Edward, it's Phil. Listen, I'm running out the door.
edward		Oh, that's good.
philip		He's grooming him to take over. I don't know.
edward		Ah, yes. Very intense young man named David. He plays polo.
philip		Look, I gotta say this again. I don't like you going alone, you know.
edward		Oh, yes. Yeah, I'm here.
edward		Housekeeping is singing.
philip		Yeah... listen.
edward		No, you don't.
edward		Besides, I already have one.
edward		You just concentrate on finding out what Morse is up to.
edward		I'm on my way.
vivian		Don't you just love Prince ?
edward		More than life itself.
vivian		Don't you knock ?
edward		Vivian, I have a business proposition for you.
vivian		What do you want ?
edward		I'm gonna be in town until Sunday. I'd like you to spend the week with me.
vivian		Really ?
edward		Yes. Yes, I'd like to hire you as an employee. Would you consider spending the week with me ?
edward		I will pay you to be at my beck and call.
vivian		Look, I'd love to be your beck and call girl, but, uh, you're a rich, good-looking guy. You could get a million girls free.
edward		I want a professional. I don't need any romantic hassles this week.
vivian		If you're talking twenty-four hours a day, it's gonna cost you.
edward		Oh, yes, of course !
edward		All right, here we go. Give me a ballpark figure. How much ?
vivian		Six full nights, days too. Four thousand.
edward		Six nights at three hundred is eighteen hundred.
vivian		You want days too.
edward		Two thousand.
vivian		Three thousand.
edward		Done.
vivian		Holy shit !
edward		Vivian ?
edward		Vivian, is that a yes ?
vivian		Yes.
vivian		Yes !
edward		I'll be gone most of the day. I want you to buy some clothes.
vivian		You really should think about traveler's checks.
edward		We may be going out evenings. You'll need something to wear.
vivian		Like what ?
edward		Uh, nothing too flashy. Not too sexy.
edward		Conservative. You understand ?
vivian		Boring.
edward		Elegant. Any questions ?
vivian		Can I call you Eddie ?
edward		Not if you expect me to answer.
vivian		I would've stayed for two thousands.
edward		I would've paid four. I'll see you tonight.
vivian		Baby, I'm gonna treat you so nice, you're never gonna wanna let me go.
edward		Three thousand for six days. And, Vivian, I will let you go.
vivian		But I'm here now.
vivian		Three thousand dollars !
vivian		Oof !
kit		Hello ?
vivian		I called and called. Where were you last night ?
kit		Ma ?
kit		Oh. Hi. I had to party. Where are you ?
vivian		Oh, man. Are you ready for this ? The guy ? The Lotus ? I am in his hotel room in Beverly Hills. The penthouse. His bathroom is bigger than the Blue Banana !
kit		Do I have to hear this ?
vivian		Kit, he wants me to stay the whole week. And you know what he's gonna give me ?
kit		Bullshit !
vivian		I swear to God. And extra money to buy clothes.
kit		Oh, man ! I am bummed. I gave that guy to you !
kit		Three thousand. Really ? Is he twisted ?
vivian		No.
vivian		He's good-looking ! KIT  Well, what's wrong with him ?
vivian		Nothing.
kit		Did he give you the money yet ?
kit		That's what's wrong with him.
vivian		Well, he gave me three hundred for last night. And, Kit ?
vivian		I'm gonna leave some at the front desk for you. I want you to pick it up.
kit		Reg... Bev... Wil.
vivian		Now, one more thing. Where do I go for the clothes ? Good stuff, on him.
kit		In Beverly Hills ? VIVIAN  Yeah.
kit		Rodeo Drive, baby.
barney		Ah !
vivian		Hi.
miss wilson		Yes, ma'am. May I help you ?
vivian		Yeah, I'm leaving this here for Kit De Luca. She's gonna pick it up.
vivian		Don't open that.
miss wilson		No, ma'am.
barney		Arrivederci.
barney		Miss Wilson, do you know that lady ?
miss wilson		No, sir.
lyrics		Wild women do. And they don't regret it.
lyrics		Wild women show what they're going through. The camera crosses the street on a crosswalk. Vivian is walking on this crosswalk.
lyrics		Ooh ! Wild women do what you think you'll never.
lyrics		What you only dream about wild women do.
lyrics		Oh, yes, they do. Vivian keeps on walking looking up at the emblems. She apparently doesn't notice that several pedestrians are looking at her, surprised by her costume.
lyrics		You tell me you want a woman who is simple as a flower.
lyrics		Well, if you want me to act like that, you've got to pay me by the hour.
lyrics		Wild women do and they don't regret it.
lyrics		Oh, wild women show what they're going through.
lyrics		Oooh-whoo ! Ooh, yeah.
lyrics		Wild women do what you think you'll never.
vivian		Well, I'm just checking things out.  SALESWOMAN # 1 Are you looking for something in particular ?
vivian		No. Well, yeah. Uh... something... conservative.
vivian		You got nice stuff.
vivian		How much is this ?
vivian		Well, I didn't ask if it would fit. I asked how much it was. The saleswoman # 1 turns toward her colleague.
vivian		Look, I got money to spend in here.
woman's voice		Doctor's office ? Two blocks down and to your left.
man's voice		Thank you.
barney		Excuse me, miss, may I help you ?
vivian		I'm going to my room.
barney		Uh, do you have a key ?
vivian		Oh. I forgot that cardboard thing. I'm on the top floor.
barney		You're a guest here ?
vivian		I'm with a friend.
barney		And who would that be ?
vivian		Edward.
barney		Edward ?
vivian		Edward... Edward, uh...
barney		Mm-hmmm.
vivian		He knows me.
barney		Dennis.
barney		Dennis, did you just come off the night shift ? Hmm ?
dennis		Yes, sir.
barney		Do you know this young lady ?
dennis		She's with Mr. Lewis.
barney		Mr. Lewis ?
vivian		That's it. Edward Lewis ! Thanks, Dennis.
dennis		Evidently she joined him last night.
barney		Thank you.
vivian		What is with everybody today ?
barney		No, no. It's all right. Just come with me. We'll have a little chat. Thank you. Dennis, thank you.
vivian		I'm coming. I'm coming.
barney		Don't play with me, young lady.
vivian		Vivian.
barney		Thank you. Vivian.
barney		Well, Miss Vivian. Things that go on in other hotels don't happen at the Regent Beverly Wilshire. Now, Mr. Lewis, however, is a very special customer, and we like to think of our special customers as friends. Now, as a customer, we would expect Mr. Lewis to sign in any additional guests, but as a friend, we're willing to overlook it. Now, I'm assuming that you're a...
barney		Relative ?
vivian		Yes.
barney		Mm-hmmm. I thought so. Then you must be his...
vivian		Niece ?
barney		Of course. Naturally, when Mr. Lewis leaves, I won't see you in this hotel again. I assume you have no other uncles here.
barney		Good ! Then we understand each other. I would also encourage you... to dress a little more appropriately. that'll be all. Vivian raises her hands and her voice.
vivian		No, that's not all. That's what I was trying to do. I tried to go... get a dress on Rodeo Drive today, and the women wouldn't help me. And I have all this money now and no dress !
vivian		Not that I expect you to help me, but I have all of this, okay ? I have to buy a dress for dinner tonight. And nobody will help me.
vivian		Oh, man, if you're calling the cops. Yeah, call the cops. That's great. Tell 'em I said hi.
barney		Women's clothing.
barney		Bridget, please.
barney		Yes, Bridget. Hello. This is Barnard Thompson here at the Regent Beverly Wil...   Well, thank you. Yes, but I'd like you to do a favor for me, please. I'm sending someone over. Her name is Vivian.
philip		Edward, we just got the Morse update. Don, can you hold the projection, please ?
philip		Yeah, what ? Speak.
philip		Navy contract. I can't believe this shit. I thought you said they had nothing in the hopper on this one !
mark		Hey, you know, if that's true it could cost a lot more. Those stocks could go through the roof.
philip		Yeah, no shit, Sherlock.
philip		Walk away ? Hey, forget it, pal. We got a thousand man- hours in on this ! Nobody's walking away from anything !
mark		Philip, I think he's right.
edward		Gentlemen, relax !
edward		Relax ! Who do we know on the Senate Appropriations Committee ?
philip		Senator Adams.
edward		All right, Senator Adams. Let's find out where he is.
edward		The Navy's not going to spend 350 million dollar on anything without going to Appropriations first.
philip		I don't understand what's going on here today, gentlemen.
edward		That's why I hired you, Phil, to do my worrying for me.
edward		I'll be in your office. Bob, if you want to send over the geologicals ?
edward		Thank you.
philip		Listen, everything all set for the meeting tonight ?
edward		Mm-hmm. We hear faint voices coming from the meeting room.
philip		Who... Who is this girl you're going with ?
edward		Nobody you know.
bridget		Don't worry, Mrs. Rainey, I'll call you the minute it comes in.
mrs rainey		Thank you.
bridget		Have a nice day.
mrs rainey		Thank you.
bridget		Hello. You must be Vivian. My name's Bridget.
vivian		Yeah, hi. Barney said you'd be nice to me. They both laugh.
bridget		He's very sweet. What are your plans while you're in town ?
vivian		We're gonna have dinner.
bridget		Oh, don't sit on there, dear !
vivian		Oh !
bridget		You're gonna go out ? Dinner ?
vivian		Mm-hmm.
bridget		Well, you'll need a cocktail dress then. Come with me.
bridget		Now, I'm sure we're gonna find something here that your uncle will love. You're a size six, right ?
vivian		Yeah. How'd you know that ?
bridget		Oh, that's my job. They start walking upstairs to the upper level.
vivian		Bridg, he's not really my uncle.
bridget		They never are, dear.
vivian		Barney !
vivian		Sorry, mister.
vivian		I got a dress !
barney		Well, I'd rather hoped you'd be wearing it.
vivian		Oh, no, I didn't want to get it messed up ! Listen, I got shoes too. You wanna see ?
barney		No, that won't be necessary. I'm sure they're quite lovely. Thank you.
vivian		Okay, well, listen. I didn't mean to interrupt you, but Bridget was really great... and I just wanted to say thanks. You're cool.
barney		You're welcome, Miss Vivian.
vivian		Hello ?  EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY
edward		Never, ever pick up the phone.
vivian		Then why are you calling me ?
vivian		I got a dress. A cocktail one.
edward		I'll be in the hotel lobby, 7:45 sharp.
edward		This isn't a date. It's business.
vivian		Where are you taking me, anyway ?
edward		I'm taking you to a restaurant called the Voltaire.
vivian		All right. I'll meet you in the lobby, but only 'cause you're paying me to.
edward		Well, thank you very much.
the secretary		Mr. Stuckey wanted to see you.
edward		Yes, tell him I'm in the middle of a very important phone call.
vivian		Hello ?
vivian		Then stop calling me.
vivian		Sick.
vivian		Barney !
barney		It didn't fit ?
vivian		Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Uh... I've got a little problem.  REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY
barney		Shrimp fork, salad fork, dinner fork.
vivian		I definitely have the salad fork. The rest of the silverware is a little confusing.
barney		All right, if you get nervous, just count the tines. Four tines : dinner fork. And sometimes there are three tines in the salad fork. And sometimes...  REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR LATE AFTERNOON
barney		Pardon me, Mr. Lewis. I'm Mr. Thompson. I'm the manager of the hotel.
edward		Uh-huh. Excuse me, I just want to make one call.
barney		Yes, um, sir. I have a message for you, sir.
edward		From who ?
barney		From your niece, sir.
edward		My what ?
barney		The young lady who's staying with you in your room, sir.
edward		Oh. Hmm.
edward		I think we both know that she's not my niece.
barney		Of course.
edward		The reason I know that is that I am an only child.
barney		Yes, sir.
edward		What's the message ?
barney		She's waiting for you in the lounge. Intriguing young lady, Miss Vivian.
edward		Intriguing.
barney		Have a good evening, sir.
edward		Thank you, Mr... ?
barney		Thompson. I'm the manager...
barney		...manager of the hotel, sir.
vivian		You're late.
edward		You're stunning.
vivian		You're forgiven.
edward		Shall we go to dinner ?
edward		Stop fidgeting. Closer high angle shot of Vivian and Edward walking toward a table where two men, an old one and a younger one, are already seated.
edward		Mr. Morse.
james morse		Yes, Mr. Lewis. I'm Jim Morse.
james morse		This fireball is my grandson, David.
david morse		Well, I don't know about the fireball part, but grandson is true enough.
edward		I'm pleased to meet you both. This is a friend of mine, Vivian Ward.
vivian		Hi. I'm really glad to meet you.
edward		Mr. Morse. David.
edward		Please, sit.
edward		Where are you going ?
vivian		I'm going to the ladies' room.
edward		Upstairs, to the right.
vivian		Okay. Excuse me.
edward		Shall I order for you ?
vivian		Yeah.
vivian		Please do so. Thank you.
edward		I'll do that.
vivian		Where's the salad ?
edward		Uh, the salad comes at the end of the meal.
vivian		That's the fork I knew.
james morse		I don't know about you, but I've never been able to figure which goes with what !
vivian		Who ordered this ?
edward		These are escargot. It's French for snails. It's a delicacy. Try it. David ?
david morse		Mr. Lewis, if you were to get control... and I don't think you will... but if you did, what do you plan to do with the company ?
edward		Break it up and sell off the pieces.
james morse		I'm sure you'll understand I'm not thrilled at the idea... of your turning forty years of my work into your garage sale.
james morse		I'm rich enough. I just want to head my shipyard.
vivian		Slippery little suckers.
james morse		I met your father. What's his name ?
edward		Carter.
james morse		He's not quite the bastard everybody says he is.
edward		No, I have the franchise on that.
james morse		Does that make him proud ?
edward		I doubt it. It doesn't really matter now. He passed away.
james morse		Oh, I hadn't heard. I'm sorry.
vivian		I'm sorry too.
edward		Mr. Morse, you asked for this meeting. What can I do for you ?
james morse		Leave my company alone.
edward		I can't do that. I own ten million shares.
james morse		I'll buy your stock back.
edward		You don't have the money.
david morse		We will. We're getting a contract to build ten destroyers.
edward		There will be no contract. The contract is now buried in Appropriations Committee. And it will remain there.
david morse		And how the hell did you pull something like that ? You got dirty politicians in your pockets now or something ?
james morse		Mr. Lewis plays hardball.
edward		Yes, yes, I do.
david morse		I've heard enough of this. Vivian, it was a great pleasure to meet you. I'm sorry, Grandfather. I've gotta get some air. Mr. Lewis. He stands up and walks away.
james morse		I'd better join my grandson. You two enjoy your dinner.
james morse		I'm sure it'll be delicious. Good luck, miss.
james morse		Watch out, Lewis. I'm gonna tear you apart.
edward		I look forward to it, sir.
edward		Rich people throw their napkins a lot, don't they ?
vivian		He seems like a nice man.
edward		I guess three thousand dollars does not buy loyalty, does it ?
vivian		I just mean it's sweet the way he's crazy about his grandson.
edward		Oh, his grandson thinks he's a relic. He hates that he does, but he does.
edward		No, just the two.
vivian		It's ketchup.
the waiter		Yes, sir.
the waiter		Yes, sir.
vivian		Haven't they ever seen ketchup before ?
edward		Not in this building.
vivian		Edward, you said you never come out here.
edward		Well, I'm only halfway out.
vivian		Didn't say much in the car on the way home. You thinking about dinner ? I was a maniac.
vivian		I mean, the business was good, I think. You know ?
vivian		He's in trouble. You want his company. He doesn't want to let it go.
edward		Thanks for the recap.
vivian		The problem is, I think you liked Mr. Morse.
edward		What I would like is for you to get down from there. You're making me very nervous. Please come down.
vivian		It's making you nervous ? What if I just leaned back a little bit like this ?
vivian		Would you... Would you rescue me if I fell ?
edward		Vivian, I'm serious. Come... I'm not looking.
vivian		It's really high.
vivian		Look, no hands, no hands ! Okay, all right. I'm sorry.
edward		The truth is, it really is totally irrelevant whether I like this man or not.
edward		I will not let myself become emotionally involved in business.
vivian		I know. Kit's always saying to me, Don't get emotional when you turn tricks. That's why no kissing. It's too personal.
vivian		It's like what you're saying : You stay numb, you don't get involved. When I'm with a guy, I'm like a robot. I just do it.
vivian		I mean... except with you.
edward		Oh, of course, not with me. You and I are such similar creatures, Vivian. We both screw people for money.
vivian		I was sorry to hear about your dad. When did he die ?
edward		Last month.
vivian		Do you miss him ?
edward		I hadn't spoken to him in fourteen and a half years. I wasn't there when he died.
vivian		Do you want to talk about this ?
edward		No.
vivian		Well, I tell you what, 'cause I got an idea.
vivian		Let's watch old movies all night. We'll just veg out in front of the TV.
edward		Veg out ?
vivian		Yeah. Be still like vegetables. Lay like broccoli.
edward		Look, I'll tell you what. I'll be back. We'll do broccoli tomorrow. He strokes her chin very delicately. She stands up.
vivian		Where are you going ?
edward		I'm going downstairs for a while.
vivian		Hi, uh, I'm in the penthouse. The guy that was here, Mr. Lewis, have you seen him down there anywhere ?
edward		Thank you. Thank you very much.
vivian		I didn't know you played.
edward		I only play for strangers.
vivian		I was getting lonely upstairs all by myself. Edward turns around.
edward		Gentlemen, would you mind leaving us, please ?
edward		Thank you.
vivian		People always do what you tell them to do ?
vivian		I guess so.
edward		Now, if you have any trouble using this card, have them call the hotel. All right ?
vivian		Oh ! More shopping.
edward		Mm-hmm. I'm surprised you didn't buy more than one dress yesterday.
vivian		Wasn't as much fun as I thought it was gonna be.
edward		Why not ?
vivian		They were mean to me.
edward		Mean to you ?
vivian		People are looking at me.
edward		They're not looking at you. They're looking at me.
vivian		The stores are not nice to people. I don't like it.
edward		Stores are never nice to people. They're nice to credit cards.
edward		Okay, stop fidgeting.
vivian		All right.
edward		Get rid of your gum.
edward		I don't believe you did that.
edward		Yes ?
hollister		I am Mr. Hollister, the manager. May I help you ?
edward		Edward Lewis.
hollister		Ah, yes, sir.
edward		You see this young lady over here ?
hollister		Yes.
edward		Do you have anything in this shop as beautiful as she is ?
hollister		Oh, yes.
hollister		Oh, no ! No, no, no, I'm saying we have many things as beautiful as she would want them to be. That's the point I was getting at, and I think we can all agree with that. That's why when you came in... Edward takes Hollister's elbow and walks slightly away.
edward		Excuse me. You know what we're gonna need here ?
hollister		...we knew from the first...
edward		We're gonna need a few more people helping us. I'll tell you why. We're going to be spending an obscene amount of money in here. So we're going to need a lot more help sucking up to us. That's what we really like. You understand that.
hollister		Sir, if I may say so, you're in the right store and the right city for that matter.
hollister		Anything you see here, we can do, by the way. Get ready to have some fun. Okay ?
vivian		Okay.
hollister		Mary Pat, Mary Kate, Mary Francis, Tovah, let's see it !
hollister		Come on. Bring it out, girls.
the saleswoman		Oh, this is absolutely divine.
hollister		Excuse me, sir, uh,
edward		Yeah ?
hollister		Exactly how obscene an amount of money were you talking about ? Just profane or really offensive ?
edward		Really offensive.
hollister		I like him so much !
hollister		Mr. Lewis, sir. Mr. Lewis, how's it going so far ? Pretty well, I think.
edward		I think we need some major sucking up.
hollister		Very well, sir. You're not only handsome, but a powerful man. I could see the second you walked in here, you were someone to reckon with...
edward		Hollister.
hollister		Yes, sir.
edward		Not me. Her.
hollister		I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry.
hollister		How we doing, ladies ?
philip		Oh, Edward, Edward. Where the hell are you ? The word's all over the street.
edward		He's countering ?   God, he is a tough old bird.
philip		I don't know. He, uh... I think he's throwing in with the employees.
edward		He still needs someone to underwrite the paper.
philip		Yeah, okay. You got it.
edward		You're on your own. I have to go back to work. You look great !
edward		She has my card.
hollister		And we'll help her use it, sir.
lyrics		Pretty woman walking down the street.
lyrics		Pretty woman the kind I like to meet. Pretty woman.
lyrics		I don't believe you. You're not the truth.
lyrics		No one could look as good as you. Mercy.
vivian		Edward would love that tie.
hollister		Would you give her the tie ?
the salesman		The tie ?
hollister		Take off the tie. Give her the tie.
the salesman		The tie. He starts taking off his tie.
hollister		He really wants to do this, by the way.
vivian		He would go crazy about this tie.
hollister		Who ordered pizza ?
lyrics		Pretty woman, stop a while.
lyrics		Pretty woman, talk a while. Pretty woman give your smile to me.
lyrics		Pretty woman Yeah, yeah, yeah.
lyrics		Pretty woman, look my way.
lyrics		Pretty woman, say you'll stay with me.
vivian		No, thank you.
vivian		Hi.
vivian		Do you remember me ?
vivian		I was in here yesterday. You wouldn't wait on me.
vivian		You work on commission, right ?  SALESWOMAN # 1 Uh, yes.
vivian		Big mistake. Big. Huge ! I have to go shopping now.
lyrics		Pretty woman don't walk on by. The camera moves across the lobby, until it reaches Barney, the managers, talking to two of his employees, one uniformed male and one female. He has not noticed Vivian yet, because she is coming behind him.
lyrics		Pretty woman don't make me cry. Pretty woman.
lyrics		Don't walk away, hey.
vivian		Wait... Thank you.
lyrics		Oh, oh, pretty woman.
philip		Fellas, let's finish this up this afternoon, huh ?
philip		Jake, set something up with Blair. Around two o'clock, two- thirty, would be good.
philip		You were right about Morse. He mortgaged everything he owns, right down to his underwear, to secure a loan from the bank.
philip		And it's not just any bank. Plymouth Trust, huh ?
edward		Hmm.
philip		So, it goes without saying... that your business means a lot more to them than our friend, Mr. Morse. So, all you gotta do is call the bank.
edward		Yeah.
philip		Edward, excuse me for saying this, but what the hell is wrong with you this week ? Are you giving Morse a chance to get away ?
edward		You know what I used to love when I was a kid, Phil ?
philip		What ?
edward		Blocks. Building blocks. Erector sets.
philip		So, I liked Monopoly. Boardwalk, Park Place. Wh-What's the point ?
edward		We don't build anything, Phil. We don't make anything.
philip		We make money, Edward. We worked for a year on this deal. It's what you said you wanted. I'm handing it to you.
philip		Morse's jugular is exposed. It's time for the kill. Let's finish this. Call the bank !
vivian		How was your day, dear ? Edward stops and looks at her.
edward		Nice tie.
vivian		I got it for you.
edward		Then he divorced my mother to be with another woman. And he took his money with him.
edward		It cost me ten thousands dollars in therapy to say that sentence : I was very angry with him. I do it very well, don't I ? I'll say it again. I was very angry with him.
edward		Hello, my name is Mr. Lewis. I'm very angry with my father.
vivian		I would've been angry at the ten thousands dollars.
edward		My father was president of the third company I ever took over. I bought it. I sold it off piece by piece.
vivian		What'd the shrink say ?
edward		He said I was cured.
vivian		Well, so you got even. That must've made you happy.
vivian		Did I mention my leg is 44 inches from hip to toe, so, basically, we're talking about 88 inches of therapy...
vivian		...wrapped around you for the bargain price of...
vivian		Yeah.
philip		Watch where you're walking, because, if you step in something, we're not going back in the car.
philip		Not too near the tree. I don't like the ants.
philip		Hello. Have you seen Edward anywhere ?
vivian		What if someone recognizes me ?
edward		Not likely. They don't spend too much time on Hollywood Boulevard.
vivian		You did.
edward		Come on. Let go. Let go.
edward		All right. You look great. You look like a lady. You're gonna have a wonderful time.
edward		Okay. Don't fidget and smile.
edward		This is Gwen and Gretchen, the infamous Olsen sisters, who have made marrying well an art form.
gwen		Edward.
edward		Be back in just a second. Hold on.
gwen		So, you're the flavor of the month. Hmm.
gretchen		Uh, she's just being testy. Edward's our most eligible bachelor. Everybody is trying to land him.
vivian		Well, I'm not trying to land him. I'm just using him for sex.
edward		Well done.
vivian		Well done. Whoo, whoo, whoo !
vivian		Tell me again why we're here.
edward		Business.
vivian		Business mingling ?
edward		Yeah.
philip		Excuse me. Edward !
philip		Edward. Over here.
edward		Phil.
philip		Ah, good to see you.
edward		Me too. I want you to meet a new friend of mine, Vivian Ward.
philip		Well, hi. Philip Stuckey, Vivian. This is my wife, Elizabeth.
elizabeth		It's always a pleasure meeting one of Edward's girls.
elizabeth		Oh, my God ! It's Tate Whitley Wallington. She runs after Tate.
elizabeth		Tate ! It's me, Elizabeth, from Workout World.
philip		Sort of an aerobics queen. Feel the burns. Well, let me get you something to drink. Vivian, why don't you start with that. Okay ?
philip		I'll be right back. Did you notice Senator Adams is here ?
edward		Mm-hmm. I asked him.
philip		That is why I have pledged my eternal love to you. Mmm !
vivian		Real genuine guy. Who is he ?
edward		He's my lawyer. He's all right.
vivian		You could freeze ice on his wife's ass.
edward		Maybe we'll try that later.
vivian		Are these people your friends ?
edward		I spend time with them, yeah.
vivian		Well, no wonder.
edward		No wonder what ?
vivian		No wonder why you came looking for me.
gwen		And I do need some help from you ladies and gentlemen in the audience.
bearded announcer		This is a time-honored tradition, ladies and gentlemen.
elizabeth		She's sweet, Edward.
edward		 976-BABE.
the man		No, it's all part of the game of polo. You get to have your shoes polished by a member of the club.
the man		I think I got something in the car that will buff that up. He walks away with the shoe.
vivian		Thank you.
david morse		Vivian, hi. David Morse.
the woman		Excuse me.
vivian		David.
david morse		How are you ?
vivian		I'm okay.
david morse		I thought that was you. I like this hat.
vivian		It's new.
elizabeth		What are you looking at ?
philip		Edward's date.
philip		Uh-huh.
elizabeth		Philip, I'm going to rip off all my clothes and do a naked belly dance for the polo players.
philip		Have fun.
david morse		Come meet my horse, Vivian.
vivian		Well, Edward's waiting for me. I don't want to...
david morse		Come on. He's right here.
vivian		Okay, I'll... Just for a second, though.
vivian		I didn't know you were playing today.
edward		Uh... I was asking for directions. There she was.
philip		Oh, so you just ran into her ? That's great, Jesus !
philip		So anyway, what does she do ? Does she... does she work ?
edward		She's in sales.
philip		Sales ? That's terrific. That's good. What does she sell ?
edward		Why do you want to know ?
philip		Now just hear me out on this, okay ? I've known you a long time. I... I see some differences in you this week, like the tie, and, uh... I'm wondering if maybe this girl isn't the difference, especially when I see her talking to David Morse.
philip		I mean, this girl appears from out of nowhere. Now she's talking to a guy whose company we're trying to buy. That's a little convenient, don't you think ?
edward		Don't be ridiculous.
philip		Edward, how... how do you know that this girl... hasn't attached herself to you because she's bringing information back to Morse ? This happens ! Industrial espionage...
edward		Phil, Phil, Phil ! Phil, listen to me.
philip		What ?
edward		She's not a spy. She is a hooker.
philip		Oh !
edward		She is a hooker. I picked her up on Hollywood Boulevard. In your car.
philip		Oh, you are...
edward		Yes, yes.
philip		Oh, man !
philip		You know, you're the only millionaire I ever heard of... who goes looking for a bargain basement streetwalker, you know ?
edward		I'm sorry I told you.
edward		Senator. Senator Adams, I'm pleased you could make it.
senator adams		Thank you. I hope the information I gave you was helpful.
edward		There's no change, is there ?
senator adams		No, it's still bogged down.
philip		Having a nice time, Vivian ?
vivian		Yeah, I'm having a great time.
philip		Must be quite a change from Hollywood Boulevard, hmm ? She stops smiling and shows a very sad and worried face.
vivian		What ?
philip		Yeah, Edward told me. But don't worry : you're secret is safe with me. Listen, maybe, uh, you and I could get together sometime...
philip		...after Edward leaves.
vivian		Yeah, sure. Why not ?
philip		We'll just have to do that, hmm ?
edward		You all right ?
vivian		I'm fine.
edward		Fine. That's good. Seven fines since we left the match.
edward		Could I have another word, please ?
vivian		Asshole ! There's a word.
edward		I think I liked fine better.
vivian		You know what ? Just tell me one thing : Why did you make me get all dressed up ?
edward		Well, for one thing, the clothing was appropriate.
vivian		No, what I mean is, if you were gonna tell everybody I'm a hooker, - why didn't you just let me wear my own clothes, okay ?
edward		I did not... I did not...
vivian		I mean, in my own clothes, when someone like that guy Stuckey comes up to me, I can handle it, I'm prepared.
edward		I'm very sorry. I'm not happy with Stuckey at all for saying or doing that. But he is my attorney. I've known him for ten years.
edward		He thought you were some kind of an industrial spy. The guy's paranoid.
vivian		What are you, my pimp now ?
vivian		You know, you think you can pass me around to your friends ? I'm not some little toy !
edward		Look, you're not my toy, I know you're not my toy.
edward		Vivian ! Vivian, I'm speaking to you. Come back here !
edward		I hate to point out the obvious, but you are, in fact, a hooker ! And you are my employee !
vivian		Look, you don't own me. I decide, okay ? I say who. I say when. I... I say who...
edward		I refuse to spend the next three days fighting with you. I said I was sorry. I meant it. That's the end of it !
vivian		I'm sorry I ever met you. She walks away into the bathroom
vivian		I'm sorry I ever got into your stupid car !
edward		As if you had so many more appealing options.
vivian		I've never had anyone make me feel as cheap as you did today.
edward		Somehow, I find that very hard to believe. She gets out of the bathroom with her arms full of clothes. She picks up a small handbag and puts it on her shoulder. Then she tries to pick up a larger handbag.
edward		Where are you going ?
vivian		I want my money. I want to get out of here.
vivian		Come on !
edward		I'm sorry. I wasn't prepared to answer questions about us. It was stupid and cruel. I didn't mean it. I don't want you to go. Will you stay the week ?
vivian		Why ?
edward		I saw you talking to David Morse. I didn't like it.
vivian		We were just talking.
edward		I didn't like it.
dennis		Down ?
vivian		You hurt me.
edward		Yes.
vivian		Don't do it again.
vivian		First guy I ever loved was a total nothing. Second was worse. My mom called me a bum magnet. If there was a bum within a fifty-mile radius, I was completely attracted to him. That's how I ended up here. I followed bum number three. Slowly, the camera moves closer to them.
edward		Mm.
vivian		So here I was : no money, no friends, no bum.
edward		So then you chose this as your profession ?
vivian		I worked at a couple fast food places, parked cars at wrestling. And I couldn't make the rent. I was too ashamed to go home. That's when I met Kit. She was a hooker and made it sound so great. So one day I did it.
vivian		I cried the whole time. But then I got some regulars and, you know... It's not like anybody plans this. It's not your childhood dream.
edward		You could be so much more.
vivian		People put you down enough, you start to believe it.
edward		I think you are a very bright, very special woman. Reverse shot on Vivian's face.
vivian		The bad stuff is easier to believe. You ever notice that ?
philip		No, I don't want to talk to him now. Tell him I'll call him on Monday.
the receptionist		Yes, sir.
philip		Where are you going ? Did he sign these ?
the secretary		No, he said he had to leave.
philip		He had to...
philip		Edward, you can't disappear now. We're in this too deep.
edward		Don't panic, Philip. Morse isn't going anywhere. I'll be back here in the morning.
edward		Did you send the tickets to the hotel ?
the receptionist		Yes, sir.
edward		Thank you.
philip		Where are you going ?
edward		I have a date.
philip		With the hooker ?
edward		Be careful, Philip.
vivian		Do I look okay ?
edward		Mmm.
vivian		Mmm ?
edward		Something's missing.
vivian		Well, nothing else is gonna fit into this dress. I'll tell you that.
edward		Well, maybe something in this box. I don't want you to get too excited. This is only on loan.
vivian		Oh !
vivian		They really let you borrow this from the jewelry store ?
edward		I'm a very good customer.
vivian		If you were gonna buy this, how much would it cost ?
edward		Quarter of a million.
vivian		A quarter of a million dollars ?
vivian		So, where are we going ?
edward		It's a surprise.
vivian		If I forget to tell you later, I had a really good time tonight.
edward		Thank you.
edward		When you're not fidgeting, you look very beautiful... and very tall.
lyrics		You're a dream coming true. I can't believe how I have...
lyrics		...fallen for you.
lyrics		You are the one who's led me to the sun.
lyrics		How could I know...
edward		You don't want to go to San Francisco in a limousine, do you ?
lyrics		...I was lost without you.
vivian		I've never been on a plane before.
lyrics		And I want to tell you...
lyrics		...you control my brain.
lyrics		And you should know that...
lyrics		...you are life in my veins.
vivian		We're late.
edward		No, it's all right. Opening night never starts on time.
vivian		Okay.
edward		Thank you.
usher		Right this way, Mr. Lewis, sir. Vivian enters first, followed by Edward. Vivian looks down from the balustrade of the box. Edward shakes hand with Doris, an old lady in the next box.
edward		Doris.
doris		Edward, how are you ?
edward		How nice to see you. Nice to see you.
edward		Sir.
doris' husband		Good evening, Edward.
edward		Wonderful news. Congratulations.
vivian		Hey, come here. You gotta look at this.
edward		It's all right. I've already seen it.
vivian		If you're afraid of heights, why do you get seats up here ?
edward		Because they're the best.
usher		Is there anything else, sir ?
edward		No, thank you.
usher		The glasses are there. Enjoy the opera.
vivian		Oh !
vivian		So, you said this is in Italian.
edward		Mm-hmmm.
vivian		So how am I gonna know what they're singing. These are broken.
vivian		Mine are broken.
edward		No, no. That's okay It's all right.
vivian		Oh.
edward		You'll know. Believe me, you'll understand.
edward		The music's very powerful.
vivian		There's a band !
edward		People's reactions to opera the first time they see it is very dramatic. They either love it or they hate it. If they love it, they will always love it. If they don't, they may learn to appreciate it, but it will never become part of their soul.
vivian		Mmm.
doris		Did you enjoy the opera, dear ?
vivian		Oh, it was so good, I almost peed in my pants.
doris		What ?
edward		She said she liked it better than Pirates of Penzance.
doris		Oh ! Edward walks away, leaving a very pensive Doris. Apparently she doesn't completely believe Edward's translation of Vivian's words !
edward		Yes. Good-bye now.
vivian		Why don't you not go to work tomorrow. Take the day off.
edward		Me, not work ?
vivian		Yeah.
edward		I do own the company.
secretary		Here are the storage reports you wanted, and Mr. Lewis called.
philip		What'd he say ?
secretary		He said he's taking the day off.
philip		He's taking the day off ?
secretary		That's what he said.
vivian		I'm starving. There's a snap dog vendor over there. Do you have any money ?
edward		I have money. I don't know what a snap dog is, but I have money.
vivian		Well, I'm gonna give, um... you'll buy a snap dog. We'll cop a squat under a tree somewhere.
edward		Cop a what ?
vivian		Cop a squat.
edward		All right, read the first two pages.
edward		Okay... Mmm...
edward		I was talking to someone.
edward		Did you know that two of the Bach pieces that we heard tonight... were found by Felix Mendelssohn in a butcher's shop ? They were wrapping meat with the sheet music.
edward		What's with you ? You're fidgeting. What's wrong ?
vivian		Um... There's a club up here that I'd like to stop into for a second to see my roommate, if that's okay ?
edward		Absolutely.
edward		Darryl !
vivian		Uh, Darryl, can you just pull up into the back alleyway, please ?
edward		You say this is a nice place. I'm sure it's a very nice place.
vivian		I just wanna run in for a minute and see if she's there, so just stay here.
vivian		I'm hoping they don't spot this limousine as it is.
edward		I'll block it with my body.
lyrics		Fame makes a man who'll take things over. Fame Lets him loose and hard to swallow.
lyrics		Fame puts you there where things are hollow.
a customer		Hey, Viv, you looking good, man. What'd you win, the lottery or what ? Vivian walks toward Rachel, one of the dancing girls.
vivian		Hey, Rachel, have you seen Kit ?
rachel		No, not since, uh, Tuesday. Hey, and Carlos is looking for her too.
vivian		Hi, Pops. Thanks. Have you seen Kit ?
pops		I think she went to Santa Barbara.
edward		Hi.
vivian		Here's my number where I'm gonna be for the rest of the week. Have her call me or come by, okay ?
pops		Okay, honey. Thanks.
vivian		Thanks.
lyrics		Fame, what you like is in the limo. Fame.
vivian		What's going on out here ?
edward		I don't know. You left and all of a sudden I'm in the middle of West Side Story.
carlos		I think you owe me some money, baby.  THE GUY WITH THE STICK Two hundred dollars.
edward		Why don't you go to school tomorrow ?
carlos		Now I hear you got yourself a new job ?
vivian		Let's just leave.
carlos		You ain't going no place.
edward		Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey...
carlos		You're out of your neighborhood, home boy. This ain't no Beverly Hills !
edward		I don't believe this. He has this knife coming out of his skateboard. He's going to stab me.
edward		What are you gonna do, you gonna strangle me with a Slinky ?
carlos		Shut up !
edward		All right, okay, this is what's happening. You believe that this person owes you money, right, two hundred dollars ?
carlos		That's right.
edward		Why ?
carlos		Because this is my block.
edward		His block ?
vivian		He's a drug dealer. It has to do with Kit. Let's just go, Edward.
carlos		Edward. So how's it feel to be a trick ?
edward		I am not a trick. This is a trick.
edward		Darryl ! Left pocket.
edward		Isn't that incredible ? And he does have a permit. Thank you, gentlemen.
edward		Don't you ever go near her again.
vivian		He sleeps.
vivian		I love you.
edward		The fact that this will be our last night together, and you'll finally be rid of me.
vivian		Well, you've been pretty tough to take.
edward		My business is almost over, so I'll be going back to New York.
edward		I'd really like to see you again.
vivian		You would ?
edward		Yes. Yes, I would, so I've arranged for you to have an apartment, to have a car...
edward		...to have a wide variety of stores guaranteed to suck up to you anytime you want to go shopping. Everything's done.
vivian		What else ? You gonna leave some money by the bed when you pass through town ?
edward		Vivian, it really wouldn't be like that.
vivian		How would it be ?
edward		Well, for one thing, it would get you off the streets.
vivian		That's just geography.
edward		What do you see happening between us ?
vivian		I don't know. When I was a little girl, my mama used to lock me in the attic when I was bad, which was pretty often. And I would... I would pretend I was a princess... trapped in a tower by a wicked queen.
vivian		...on a white horse with these colors flying would come charging up and draw his sword. And I would wave. And he would climb up the tower and rescue me.
vivian		But never in all the time... that I had this dream did the knight say to me, Come on, baby, I'll put you up in a great condo.
edward		Yes.
philip		I just got off the phone with James Morse. Get this.
edward		What about ?
philip		Edward, I think we got him. His nuts are on the block. We got him !
edward		No, it's no good. If he's really caving in, I don't want to wait until this afternoon. Have Morse meet me downtown this morning. Good-bye.
edward		I have to go now, but I want you to understand... I heard everything you said. This is all I'm capable of right now. It's a very big step for me.
vivian		I know. It's a really good offer for a girl like me.
edward		I've never treated you like a prostitute. He looks at her, then walks away toward the front door. Out of his hearing, Vivian whispers :
vivian		You just did.
barney		It's Barnard Thompson here, Miss Vivian.
barney		Could you come down to the front desk ? There's someone here who wants to speak to you. She says her name is Miss De Luca...
kit		Let me talk to her. Let me... Let me just talk to her.
kit		Yo, Viv, babe. Would you come down here ? The sphincter police won't let me through. Okay.
kit		She's on her way.
barney		Fine.
the attendant		Mr. Thompson.
barney		Yes.
the attendant		The window washer is refusing to come down.
barney		It's a Saturday. Wait here, please.  Watch her.
kit		Fifty bucks, Grandpa. For seventy-five, the wife can watch.
vivian		Listen, I've been calling you.
kit		Yeah, I know. They told me at the Banana you were looking for me.
vivian		You were supposed to come by Tuesday. I left the money at the desk.
kit		I was hiding out from Carlos.
vivian		Well, if you picked up the money, you wouldn't have to hide.
kit		Hey, I was busy. I had a life, you know. Nino got beat up. We had to visit him in the hospital. Rachel got arrested. It was a mess. Anyway, I got the money.
kit		Thank you very much for saving my ass. Now Carlos can get off of it.
kit		You know, he was talking about you last night. He would bust something if he saw you in this outfit.
kit		I was afraid to hug you up there. I might wrinkle you !
kit		You look really good.
kit		No, something with shade.
kit		You clean up real nice. You sure don't fit in down on the Boulevard looking like you do, not that you ever did.
vivian		Well, thanks, but it's easy to clean up when you got money.
kit		Yeah. So, when does he leave ?
vivian		Tomorrow.
kit		You get to keep the clothes ?
vivian		Yeah. Edward asked me if I wanted to see him again. But I think... I think definitely no. I mean, it's just another week, right ?
kit		Definitely no.
vivian		Yeah.
kit		Oh, no.
vivian		What ?
kit		I know this weepy look on your face.
vivian		Oh, no, you don't !
kit		You fell in love with him.
vivian		No. Kit, please. Stop it.
kit		You've fallen in love with him ?
vivian		Kit !
kit		Did you kiss him ? On the mouth ?
vivian		Uh, yeah, yeah... I did.
kit		You kissed him on the mouth ?
vivian		I did. It was nice.
kit		You fall in love with him, and you kiss him on the mouth. Did I not teach you anything ?
vivian		Look, I'm not stupid, okay ? I'm... I'm not in love with him. I just... I like him.
kit		You like him ?
vivian		Yeah.
kit		You definitely like him. Well, he's not a bum. He's a rich, classy guy.
vivian		Who's gonna break my heart, right ?
kit		Oh, no. Come on. You don't know that. Hey, he asked you, right ? Maybe you guys could, like, um, you know, get a house together. Like, buy some diamonds and a horse. I don't know.
kit		Anyway, it could work. It happens.
vivian		When does it happen, Kit ? When does it really happen ? Who does it really work out for ? Did it work out for Skinny Marie or Rachel ? No !
kit		Those were very specific cases of crackheads.
vivian		I just wanna know who it works out for. You give me one example of somebody that we know that it happened for.
kit		Name someone ?
vivian		Yeah, one person that it worked out for.
kit		You want me to give you a name or something.
vivian		Yeah. I'd like to know.
kit		Oh, God, the pressure of a name.
kit		Cinder-fucking-rella.
the father		Winner gets a piggy-back. Come on, saddle up, boy.
philip		Mr. Morse, you said this morning you wished to speak to Mr. Lewis. Mr. Lewis is now listening.
james morse		I've reconsidered my position on your acquisition offer... on one condition. I'm not so concerned about me, but the people who are working for me.
philip		It's not a problem. They'll be taken care of. Well, then, gentlemen. If we could address ourselves to the contracts in front of you. If you look at...
edward		Excuse me, Phil.
edward		Gentlemen, I'd like to speak to Mr. Morse alone. Thank you.
philip		All right, gentlemen, you heard the man. Please wait outside. All the assistants stand up to leave the room.
edward		You too, Phil.
philip		What do you mean ?
edward		I mean I would like to speak to Mr. Morse alone.
philip		Why does he get to stay ?
edward		Please, please.
philip		I'll be right outside.
edward		Good.
edward		Is that better ?
james morse		It's all right.
edward		Would you like a cup of coffee ?
james morse		Black.
edward		Mr. Morse, my interests in your company have changed.
james morse		What is it you're after now, Mr. Lewis ?
edward		Well, I no longer wish to buy your company and take it apart. But I don't want anyone else to, either. And it is still extremely vulnerable. So I find myself... in unfamiliar territory. I want to help you.
james morse		Why ?
edward		Mr. Morse, I think we can do something very special with your company.
james morse		What about our Navy contracts ?
edward		Ah, they weren't dead. Just delayed. I... bluffed a little bit.
james morse		You're very good at it.
edward		Thank you very much. It's my job.
edward		I think we can leave the details up to the others.
james morse		I find this hard to say without sounding condescending, but... I'm proud of you.
edward		Thank you. I think we can let in the other suits now.
edward		Let's continue the meeting.
james morse		Come in, gentlemen. Sit down.
philip		Edward, please, what was this all about ? Hmm ?
edward		It's all yours, Phil. Finish it up.
james morse		Great big ships.
edward		You know, I think I'm gonna go for a walk. Just stay here for a while. I'll be back.
darryl		Yes, sir, Mr. Lewis.
philip		Well, well. Hello again. I'm looking for Edward.
vivian		Edward's not here. I thought he was with you.
philip		No. Uh, Edward is definitely not with me.
philip		No, if Edward were with me...
philip		When. Actually, when... Edward was with me, he didn't blow off billion dollar deals !
philip		I think that, uh, Edward's with you. That's what I think. Mind if I have a drink ?
vivian		No.
vivian		No, thank you.
philip		Well, I'll just wait.
vivian		Uh, Edward will be back soon. Any minute, he'll be home.
philip		You know...   ...this is not home. This is, uh, a hotel room. And, uh, you are not... the little woman.
philip		You're a hooker. Maybe you're a very good hooker, you know ? She puts her notebook on the low table.
philip		Maybe if I do you, then I wouldn't care about losing millions of dollars. Because I have to be very honest with you right now, Vivian.
philip		Right now I really do care. I really do. And right now I am really pissed, you know ?
philip		Right now I am just freaking out. So maybe if I screw you, huh...
philip		...and take you to the opera, then I could be a happy guy, just like Edward.
vivian		Hey, get off me !
philip		Hey, hey ! Goddamn it !
philip		Ow !
vivian		Ow !
philip		Come on ! Come on ! I'll pay for it.
philip		How much is it ? Twenty bucks, thirty bucks ?
philip		Fifty ? You a fifty dollars whore, Vivian ?
philip		What are you doing ? Get off !
edward		Stop. I don't want to hurt you ! Stop it !
philip		I don't know how to tell you this. You already did, Edward !
philip		All right, all right.
edward		Out. Out of here.
philip		Look, she's a whore, man. She's a goddamn... Aah !
edward		Aah ! Damn. Shit. Goddamn !
philip		I think you broke my nose.
edward		Get out of here.
edward		That's bullshit. This is such bullshit ! It's the kill you love, not me ! I made you a very rich man doing exactly what you loved. Now get out of here !
vivian		Wham ! And it feels like your eye is gonna explode. What do they do ? Do they pull you aside in high school and show you how to do this ?
vivian		Is that... Ow ! Even the light touch of the napkin seems to hurt her.
edward		Not all guys hit.
vivian		I heard about what you did with Morse.
edward		That was a business decision.
vivian		It was good.
edward		It felt good.
vivian		I think this is okay.
vivian		I gotta get going.
edward		Yes, I noticed you're packed. Why are you leaving now ?
vivian		Edward, there'll always be some guy, even some friend of yours, thinking he can treat me like Stuckey, thinking that it's allowed. What are you gonna do ? You gonna beat up everybody ?
edward		That's not why you're leaving.
vivian		Look, you made me a really nice offer. And a few months ago, no problem. But now everything is different, and you've changed that. And you can't change back. I want more.
edward		I know about wanting more. I invented the concept. The question is how much more.
vivian		I want the fairy tale.
edward		Impossible relationships.
edward		My special gift is impossible relationships.
edward		Thank you.
vivian		You're welcome. She puts the money in the pocket of her jacket. He is holding a business card in his hand.
vivian		I had a good time.
edward		Me too.
edward		Do you want me to get you a bellboy ?
vivian		No, I got it.
edward		I'll carry this.
vivian		Thanks.
edward		Stay. Stay the night with me. And not because I'm paying you, but because you want to.
vivian		I can't.
edward		Good-bye.
vivian		I think you have a lot of special gifts.
edward		Mmm.
the attendant		I didn't do it, sir.
barney		No, no. Now, I didn't say that. I want you to call maintenance and have them deal with this. You must delegate authority.
the attendant		Yes, sir.
vivian		Hi, Barney.
barney		Miss Vivian.
barney		Thank you.
vivian		I wanted to say good-bye.
barney		Well, then, I gather you're not accompanying Mr. Lewis to New York.
vivian		Come on, Barney. You and me live in the real world... most of the time.
barney		Have you arranged for transportation ?
vivian		I'm gonna call a cab.
barney		Allow me.
barney		Darryl. DARRYL  Yes, sir.
barney		Please take Miss Vivian anywhere she wishes to go.
darryl		Yes, sir.
barney		It's been a pleasure knowing you. Come and visit us again sometime.
vivian		Stay cool.
lyrics		Lay a whisper On my pillow. Leave the winter On the ground.
lyrics		I wake up lonely...
lyrics		...The stare of silence In the bedroom And all around. Touch me now.
lyrics		I close my eyes And dream away.
lyrics		It must have been love, But it's over now. It must have been good...
lyrics		...But I lost it somehow. It must have been love, But it's over now.
lyrics		From the moment we touched, Till the time had run out.
bell boy		Is that everything, sir ?
edward		Yes. Yes, that's everything.
bell boy		I'll meet you downstairs, sir.
edward		Thank you.
kit		We look so dopey.
kit		San Francisco's not that great, you know.
kit		It's bad climate. It's foggy. It's unpredictable.
vivian		I'll wear a sweater.
kit		What are you gonna do there ?
vivian		Get a job. Finish high school. I got things I can do. I used to make pretty good grades in high school.
kit		Yeah, I could see that about you. I could see that.
vivian		Sure you won't come with me ?
kit		And leave all this ? Not in a million.
vivian		Come here.
kit		Whoa. Whoa. What is this ?
vivian		It's part of the Edward Lewis scholarship fund. We think you got a lot of potential, Kit De Luca.
kit		You do ? You think I got potential ?
vivian		Oh, yeah. Don't let anybody tell you different, okay ?
kit		Okay.
vivian		Take care of you.
kit		No, I can't, I can't. It's your favorite.
kit		What time's your bus ?
vivian		An hour.
kit		Yeah, well, I gotta split, 'cause good-byes make me crazy. So, take care of you.
vivian		Whoa. Vivian slaps Kit's back, and then kisses her on the head.
barney		Mr. Lewis.
edward		You don't have any messages for me, do you ?
barney		No, I'm afraid not, sir.
edward		I'll need a car to the airport also.
barney		Of course. Darryl will take you wherever you need to go.
barney		Darryl, the limousine out front, please ?
darryl		Yes, sir.
barney		Thank you, Darryl.
edward		One last thing.
barney		Yes.
edward		If you could possibly return this to Fred's for me, please.
barney		Yes, of course. May I, sir ?
edward		Of course, please. Barney opens the jewel box.
barney		It must be difficult to let go of something so beautiful.
barney		You know, Darryl also drove Miss Vivian home yesterday.
barney		I'll take care of it.
edward		Thank you, Mr. Thompson.
kit		I'm gonna have to charge you a little more rent than Vivian... because I've got this beauty course I'm looking into. I'm not gonna be there that much, you know ?
kit		'Cause you can't... You just can't turn tricks forever. You gotta have a goal. Do you have a goal ?
the florist		Help you, love ? Edward points to a bunch of flowers. The florist gives it to him.
edward		There you go. Thank you very much.
kit		So, you got a lot of stuff you gotta move in ?
angel		No, Carlos burned most of my stuff when I said I was moving out.
edward		Vivian !
edward		Vivian !
edward		Had to be the top floor, right ?
edward		All right. I'm coming up.
edward		So what happened after he climbed up the tower and rescued her ?
vivian		She rescues him right back.
lyrics		Pretty woman, Walking down the street. Pretty woman, The kind I like to meet. Pretty woman, I don't believe you. You're not the truth. No one could look as good as you. Mercy. Pretty woman won't you pardon me. Pretty woman I couldn't help but see, Pretty woman, That you look lovely as can be. Are you lonely just like me. Oh, pretty woman.
lyrics		You really took me by surprise. You're someone I've needed for a lifetime. Your heart was cleverly disguised, And it didn't look that way in my mind. Tell me how could it be. I was the last to know. Darling, I couldn't read what was in your mind, To turn around and love me, With no Explanation. I gave you everything I have. I didn't know that you would take it With sweet consideration. And after all that we've been through, I can't believe it's true Until I hear you say. Ooh ! I know now, now, now. Ah ! No explanation. I gave you everything I have. I didn't know that you would take it.
****Dialogues from script :Pride_and_Prejudice.txt****

mrs bennet		My dear Mr Bennet, have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last? We follow Elizabeth into the house, but still overhear her parents' conversation.
mr bennet		As you wish to tell me, I doubt I have any choice in the matter...
kitty		With five thousand a year! Jane, , joins them at the door.
jane		Goodness!
lydia		- and he's single to be sure!
mrs bennet		What a fine thing for our girls!
mr bennet		Bow can it affect them?
mrs bennet		My dear Mr Bennet, how can you be so tiresome! You know that he must marry one of them.
mr bennet		Oh, so that is his design in settling here? Mr Bennet takes a book from his table and walks out of the library into the corridor where the girls are gathered, Mrs Bennet following.
mrs bennet		- So you must go and visit him at once.
lydia		Oh, yes, Papa.
kitty		Please, Papa!
mr bennet		There is no need, for I already have. The piano stops. A frozen silence. They all stare.
mrs bennet		You have?
jane		when?
mrs bennet		How can you tease me, Mr Bennet. You have no compassion for my poor nerves?
mr bennet		You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for them; they are my constant companions these twenty years.
mrs bennet		Is he amiable?
kitty		Is he handsome?
lydia		He's sure to be handsome.
mr bennet		I will give my hearty consent to his marrying whichever of the girls he chooses.
lydia		So will he come to the ball tomorrow?
mr bennet		I believe so. Lydia and Kitty shriek with excitement.
lydia		I need it!
kitty		- if you do, I'll lend you my green slippers. Mr Bennet winks at Elizabeth and turns to Mary, a serious, somewhat pedantic young woman.
mr bennet		And what do you say, Mary? Are you not excited by the prospect of a ball?
mary		Society has claims on us all, Papa. As long as I have my mornings to myself, I consider an interval of recreation and amusement as quite desirable. Elizabeth laughs.
lydia		 I literally can't breathe its so tight.
kitty		My toes hurt. Elizabeth and Jane are a little apart from their family. Jane looks breathtaking.
elizabeth		Well, if every man in this room does not end the evening completely in love with you then I am no judge of beauty.
jane		Or men.
elizabeth		Oh, they are far too easy to judge.
jane		They are not all bad.
elizabeth		Humourless poppycocks, in my limited experience.
jane		One of these days, Lizzie, someone will catch your eye and then you'll have to watch your tongue.
elizabeth		And eat my hat. She stops speaking. And stares. A dazzling group enters the room: George Bingley, 25, a good hearted soul but prone to bumbling embarrassment when his enthusiasms get the better of him, his sister Caroline, 23, a victim of every latest fashion, counting herself superior to most company she encounters, and finally, Mr Fitzwilliam Darcy, 27, dashing, brooding with an introversion which could be misconstrued as hauteur. They are dressed in the highest fashion. Darcy surveys the hall. He catches Elizabeth's eye. She stares, with a kind of surprised shock. Jane notices and looks at Darcy. He turns away.
jane		Luckily, you are not wearing a hat. A hush falls as the local people turn to stare. The newcomers - creatures from another world - make quite a stir.
caroline bingley		We are a long way from Grosvenor Square, are we not, Mr Darcy? He does indeed look superior to the assembled company. On the dance floor a young couple, staring at the newcomers, trip over each other, stumble and burst out laughing.
mr bingley		I find it very charming.
elizabeth		So which of the painted peacocks is our Mr Bingley?
charlotte		He is on the right, and on the left is his sister.
elizabeth		And the person with the disagreeable expression?
charlotte		That is his good friend, Mr Darcy.
elizabeth		Poor soul.
charlotte		On the contrary, he has ten thousand a year and owns half of Derbyshire.
sir william		 My eldest daughter you know, Mrs Bennet ...miss Jane Bennet, Elizabeth and Miss Mary Bennet.
mrs bennet		It is a pleasure. I have two others but
mr bingley		Delighted to make your acquaintance.
sir william		And may I introduce Mr Darcy.
elizabeth		How do you like it here in Hertfordshire, Mr Bingley?
mr bingley		 Very much.
elizabeth		The library at Netherfield, I've heard, is one of the finest in the country.
mr bingley		Yes, it fills me with guilt. He looks at Jane a little blush starts around his collar.
bingley		Not a good reader, you see. I like being out of doors. I mean, I can read, of
darcy		Thank you. It is the work of many generations.
miss bingley		And then you have added so much to it yourself.
jane		I wish I read more, but there always seems so many other things to do.
bingley		That's exactly what I meant. He beams at Jane.
lydia		Mama! The regiment is arriving next week!
kitty		And will be here for the whole winter! Mrs Forster told us!
lydia		They're going to be stationed in the village!
mr bingley		May I have the honour? They leave, to dance.
elizabeth		Do you dance Mr Darcy?
darcy		Not if I can help it. Elizabeth, Darcy and Miss Bingley stand in silence as they over hear the following...
lydia		officers! Lots of officers!
kitty		How will we meet them?
lydia		It's easy. You just walk up and down in front of them and drop something. Lydia pantomimes the actions for Kitty.
lydia		They pick it up. You say 'oh thank you sir' and blush prettily and then you're introduced!
mr bennet		I have long suspected that we have two of the silliest girls in the county.
mrs bennet		Oh Mr Bennet! I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself, and if a smart young colonel with six thousand a year should want one of my girls I shall not say nay to him. Mr Darcy overhears this. Profoundly embarrassed, Lizzie moves away.
mrs bennet		7 That dress becomes her, does it not. 7 Though of course my Jane needs little help from couturiers. Elizabeth wanders through the throng. She looks at Bingley and Jane ending the dance - she is coy and demure, he clearly smitten -
bingley		Come Darcy, I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing by yourself in this stupid manner.
mr darcy		 You know how I detest it.
mr bingley		Upon my word, I've never seen so many pretty girls in my life.
darcy		You are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room.
bingley		Oh, she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld, but her sister Elizabeth is very agreeable. They have stopped at the edge of the dance floor and have not seen Elizabeth and charlotte who are standing close behind them. Elizabeth smirks as she overhears their conversation.
darcy		Perfectly tolerable, I dare say, but not handsome enough to tempt me. Elizabeth's smile drops.
charlotte		Ignore him, Lizzie, he is such a disagreeable man it would be a misfortune to be liked by him.
elizabeth		Don't worry. I would not dance with him for half of Derbyshire.
elizabeth		Yes! I adore her.
mrs bennet		It is a pity she is not more handsome.
elizabeth		Mama!
mrs bennet		But Lizzie will never admit she is plain.
jane		Oh, Mama, please!
mrs bennet		When she was only fifteen there was a gentleman so much in love with her that I was sure he would make her an offer. However, he did write her some very pretty verses.
darcy		I thought that poetry was the food of love.
elizabeth		Of a fine, stout love it may. Everything nourishes what is strong already. But if it is only a thin, slight sort of inclination, I'm convinced that one good sonnet will starve it away entirely. Darcy looks at Elizabeth with surprise. A glimmering of interest.
darcy		So what do you recommend, to encourage affection?
elizabeth		Oh dancing, of course. Even if ones partner is barely tolerable. She gives him a dazzling smile. Darcy looks startled. He has no idea she heard him. He blushes.
jane		Mr Bingley is just what a young man ought to be. Sensible, good humoured -
elizabeth		 Handsome, conveniently rich -
jane		You know perfectly well I do not believe marriage should be driven by thoughts of money.
elizabeth		I agree entirely, only the deepest love will persuade me into matrimony, which is why I will end up an old maid.
jane		Do you really believe he liked me, Lizzie?
elizabeth		Jane, he danced with you most of the night.
jane		I was flattered, I must admit. I did not expect such a compliment.
elizabeth		That is one great difference between us. Compliments always take you by surprise. Well, Mr Bingley is certainly very amiable, and I give you leave to like him. You've liked many a stupider person.
jane		Lizzie!
elizabeth		You're a great deal too apt to like people in general, you know. All the world is good and agreeable in your eyes.
jane		Not his friend. I still cannot believe what he said about you.
elizabeth		Mr Darcy? I could more easily forgive his vanity had he not wounded mine. But no matter. I doubt we shall ever speak again. She blows out the candle.
mrs bennet		And then he danced the third with Miss Lucas. Poor thing, it is a shame she is not more handsome. The fourth with a Miss King of little standing. And the fifth again with Jane.
mr bennet		If he'd had any compassion for me he would have sprained his ankle in the first dance.
mrs bennet		Oh, Mr Bennet! Anybody would think the girls looked forward to a grand inheritance. Elizabeth rolls her eyes at Mr Bennet, they've heard this speech many times before.
mrs bennet		As you well know, Mr Bennet, when you die, which may in fact be very soon, our girls will be left without a roof over their head nor a penny to their name.
elizabeth		Oh Mother, please! It's ten in the morning. Mrs Hill enters the room and interrupts Mrs Bennet's babbling.
mrs hill		A letter addressed to Miss Bennet, Ma'arn. From Netherfield Hall.
mrs bennet		Praise the Lord! We are saved. Mrs Hill gives the letter to Jane.
jane		It is from Miss Bingley. Mrs Bennet is stopped in her tracks.
mrs bennet		This is most unfortunate.
lydia		I didn't think he was so good looking anyway.
jane		Can I take the carriage?
mrs bennet		Certainly not my dear, you will go to Netherfield on horse back.
jane		Horseback?! Mrs Bennet leaves with a secret smile on her lips.
mrs bennet		 Ah, good... The housekeeper, Mrs Hill, who is with her, looks bemused at her mistress's reaction.
mrs bennet		Excellent. Now she will have to stay the night. Exactly as I predicted.
mr bennet		Good grief, woman. Your skills in the art of match-making are without question.
elizabeth		Though I don't think, mama, you can reasonably take credit for making it rain. Let's hope she hasn't caught her death before she gets there.
elizabeth		"And my kind friends will not hear of me returning home until I am better -- but do not be alarmed excepting a sore throat, a. fever, and a headache there is nothing wrong with me." This is ridiculous.
mr bennet		Well, my dear, if your daughter does die it will be a comfort to know it was all in pursuit of Mr Bingley.
mrs bennet		People do not die of colds.
elizabeth		Though she might well perish with the shame of having such a mother. Mr Bennet laughs.
elizabeth		I am going to Netherfield at once.
mrs bennet		Nonsense, the horse is with Jane. And the girls took the carriage to town.
elizabeth		Then I will walk there. We should not leave Jane alone in her condition.
mrs bennet		Walk! You will not be fit to be seen by the time you get there.
mr bennet		Why the devil not. We could have them all laid up at Netherfield Hall.
elizabeth		I will be fit for Jane which is all I care about.
caroline bingley		 Apparently, Lady Bathurst is redecorating her ballroom in the French style. A little unpatriotic, don't you think? Mr Darcy is about to answer when the door opens. A footman appears, his face rigid with disapproval.
footman		Miss Elizabeth Bennet. Lizzie comes in, her face flushed, her skirt covered in mud. She looks ravishing. Darcy stares at her, then quickly rises to his feet. Caroline Bingley, astonished, looks her up and down.
caroline bingley		Good Lord, Miss Bennet. Have you walked here?
elizabeth		I'm so sorry. How is my sister?
caroline bingley		Goodness, did you see her petticoat? Six inches deep in mud! No response.
caroline bingley		And her hair, so blowsy and untidy!
darcy		I think her concern for her sister does her credit. A little pause, Caroline recovers.
caroline bingley		Oh yes, its shocking to have a bad cold. I dislike excessively being ill myself.
bingley		Miss Elizabeth! Oh I'm so glad to see you A doctor comes out of Jane's room.
doctor		A violent cold, but we shall get the better of it.
elizabeth		Jane! Jane's face lights up. Elizabeth kisses her.
jane		Lizzie! Oh, your face is so cold. They're being so kind to me, I feel such a terrible imposition.
elizabeth		Don't worry. I don't know who is more pleased at your being here, Mama or Mr Bingley. Bingley comes in having attended to the doctor.
bingley		It is a pleasure, I mean not to see her so sick, of course, that's terrible. I will have a room made up for you. You must be our guest here until Jane recovers.
caroline bingley		Stay!? She is a perfectly sweet girl but save being an excellent walker, there is very little to recommend her.
bingley		I thought she showed remarkable spirit coming all this way.
caroline bingley		The eldest Miss Bennet, as you know, I hold in excessive regard and I wish her well settled. Though I do fear with her families low connections there is little chance of it. Their uncle is in trade, you know, in Cheapside.
bingley		If they had uncles enough to fill all Cheapside it would not make them one jot less agreeable.
mrs bennet		Well, my dear, its all going according to plan. He's half in love with her already!
mr bennet		 Who, my sweetest?
mrs bennet		Mr Bingley! And he doesn't mind that she hasn't a penny, for he has enough for the two of them. Suddenly a distant trumpet sounds, dogs bark. The militia are arriving. Lydia and Kitty rush past. They are dressed up to the nines to greet the officers. Mrs Bennet's face lights up.
mrs bennet		Wait for me!
caroline bingley		You write uncommonly fast, Mr Darcy.
mr darcy		 You are mistaken. I write rather slowly. Caroline Bingley lingers, annoyingly.
caroline bingley		How many letters you must have occasion to write, Mr Darcy. Letters of business too. How odious I should think them!
darcy		It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours.
caroline bingley		Please tell your sister that I long to see her.
darcy		I have already told her once, by your desire. Lizzie looks across from her book.
caroline bingley		I do dote on her, I was quite in raptures at her beautiful little design for a table.
mr bingley		Its amazing, how young ladies have the patience to be so accomplished.
caroline bingley		What do you mean, Charles?
mr bingley		They all paint tables, and embroider cushions and play the piano. I never heard of a young lady, but people say she is accomplished.
darcy		The word is indeed applied too liberally. I cannot boast of knowing more than half a dozen women, in all my acquaintance, that are truely accomplished.
caroline bingley		Nor I, to be sure!
elizabeth		Goodness! You must comprehend a great deal in the idea.
darcy		I do.
caroline bingley		Absolutely. She must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing, dancing and the modern languages, to deserve the word. And something in her air and manner of walking.
darcy		And of course she must improve her mind by extensive reading. Elizabeth closes her book.
elizabeth		i am no longer surprised at your knowing only six accomplished women. I rather wonder now at your knowing any.
darcy		Are you so severe on your own sex?
elizabeth		I never saw such a woman. She would certainly be a fearsome thing to behold. Pause. Darcy goes back to his letter. Caroline Bingley picks up a book. Pauses. Puts it down. she walks over to
caroline bingley		Miss Bennet, let us take a turn about the room. Lizzie, surprised, gets up. Caroline Bingley links her arm and they start walking up and down.
elizabeth		And it's a small kind of accomplishment, I suppose. Darcy meets Lizzie's eye, briefly. He goes back to his letter-writing. More walking up and down. Caroline Bingley turns to Darcy.
caroline bingley		Mr Darcy, will you join us?
darcy		 You can only have two motives, Miss Bingley, and I would interfere with either.
caroline bingley		 What can he mean?
elizabeth		Our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask nothing about it.
darcy		Either you are in each other's confidence and have secret affairs to discuss, or you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage by walking. If the first, I should get in your way. If the second, I can admire you much better from here.
caroline bingley		Oh, shocking! How shall we punish him for such a speech?
elizabeth		We could always tease him.
caroline bingley		Oh no, Mr Darcy is not to be laughed at!
elizabeth		Are you too proud, Mr Darcy? And would you consider that a fault?
darcy		That I couldn't say.
elizabeth		For we're trying to find a fault in you.
darcy		Maybe it's that I find it hard to forgive the follies and vices of others, or their offences against myself. My good opinion, once lost, is lost forever.
elizabeth		Oh dear, I cannot tease you about that. What a shame, for I dearly love to laugh.
elizabeth		Jane, do you think you might feel well enough to leave today?
butler		A Mrs Bennet, a Miss Bennet, a Miss Bennet and a Miss Bennet, sir.
caroline bingley		Are we to receive every Bennet in the country? Mrs Bennet, Lydia, Mary and Kitty are introduced to Caroline, Bingley and Darcy. Elizabeth holds her breath as her mother launches into untold gaucheries.
mrs bennet		What an excellent room you have sir. Such expensive furnishings. I hope you intend to stay here, Mr Bingley.
bingley		Absolutely I find the country very diverting. Don't you agree, Darcy?
darcy		I find it perfectly adequate even if society is a little less varied than in town.
mrs bennet		But I assure you there is quite as much going on in the country as there is in the town.
elizabeth		Indeed Mania, I think Mr Darcy merely meant there were not such a variety of people to be met in the country as there are in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.
mrs bennet		Nonsense, we dine with four and twenty families. Sir William Lucas for instance is a very agreeable man. So very genteel and easy. Elizabeth cringes.
lydia		Mr Bingley, is it true that you have promised to hold a ball here at Netherfield?
bingley		Well...
lydia		It would be an excellent way to meet new friends. You could invite the militia.
kitty		Oh do hold a ball.
elizabeth		(trying to stop Bingley being
bingley		When your sister has recovered you shall name the day.
mary		I think a Ball is a perfectly irrational way to gain new acquaintance. It would be better if conversation instead of dancing were the order of the day.
caroline bingley		Indeed much more rational but rather less like a ball.
elizabeth		Thank you, Mary.
bingley		 Please let me show you to Jane, you will find her quite recovered.
jane		 Really, I don't know how to thank you. Bingley beams bashfully. He can't take his eyes off her.
bingley		Really, you're welcome anytime you feel the least bit poorly.
caroline bingley		Not at all. The pleasure is all mine. Elizabeth looks at Darcy, who does not say anything. She gets in the carriage.
elizabeth		Mr Darcy.
darcy		Miss Bennet. They share a look as Elizabeth joins the rest of the Bennets in the carriage. The driver takes off. Bingley waves enthusiastically to Jane.
bingley		Goodbye. Goodbye.
mrs bennet		What a high and mighty man that Mr Darcy is, quite eaten up with pride.
lydia		I can't believe it, there must be a thousand of them. Leading the one troupe of Militia is Wickham a very handsome blonde officer, Lydia spots him and swoons.
elizabeth		 Please, drive on.
mr bennet		I hope, my dear, that you have ordered a good dinner today, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family
lizzie		His name is Mr Collins. He's the dreaded cousin.
charlotte		Who's to inherit?
lizzie		Indeed. Everything, apparently. He may leave us our stays, but even my piano stool belongs to Mr Collins.
charlotte		When?
lizzie		He can turn us out of the house as soon as he pleases.
charlotte		But why?
lizzie		Because the estate is entailed to him and not to us poor females. A cart passes, crammed with sheep going to slaughter.
mr collins		Ah, these are your daughters, are they not?
mr bennet		We have some more somewhere.
mr collins		I must congratulate you. I have heard much of their beauty, but in this instance fame has fallen short of the truth. A very low bow. The girls are somewhat taken aback.
collins		What a superbly featured room and what excellent boiled potatoes. It is many years since I had such an exemplary vegetable. To which of my fair cousins should I compliment the excellence of the cooking?
mrs bennet		Mr Collins, we are perfectly able to keep a cook.
collins		Excellent. I am very pleased the estate affords such a living. I am honoured to have, as my patroness, Lady Catherine de Bourg, you have heard of her, I presume? Mrs Bennet shakes her head.
mr collins		My small rectory abuts her estate, Rosings Park, and she often condescends to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies. A pause. Lizzie catches her father's eye.
mrs bennet		Does she have any family?
mr collins		One daughter, the heiress of Rosings and very extensive property. I have often observed to Lady Catherine, that her daughter seemed born to be a duchess for she has all the superior graces of elevated rank.
elizabeth		Do these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment or are they the result of previous study? Jane kicks Elizabeth under the table. Elizabeth tries not to laugh at Mr Collins' answer.
mr collins		They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though I sometimes amuse myself with arranging such little elegant compliments, I always wish to give them as unstudied an air as possible.
elizabeth		Believe me, no one would suspect your manners to be practised. The girls look at one another.
collins		After dinner I thought I might read to you all an hour or two. I have with me Fordyce's sermons which speak eloquently on this point.
collins		Mrs Bennet. You do know I have been bestowed by the good grace of Lady Catherine de Bough a parsonage of no mean size.
mrs bennet		I have become aware of the fact.
collins		Well, it.is my avowed hope that soon I may find a mistress for it, and I have to inform you that the eldest Miss Bennet has captured my special attention. Collins looks lasciviously into the room.
mrs bennet		Mr Collins, unfortunately it is incumbent on me to hint that the eldest Miss Bennet is - very soon to be engaged.
collins		Engaged!
mrs bennet		But Miss Elizabeth next to her in both age and beauty would make anyone an excellent partner. Do not you agree, Mr Collins? Mr Collins looks through the doorway at Elizabeth
collins		Indeed. Indeed. A very agreeable alternative.
elizabeth		Oh no! Mx Collins spots them and darts through a door in the garden wall and hurries towards the bridge to meet them.
elizabeth		Quick! This way! She pulls Jane across the duck board spanning the moat, through the house and out the front. Mr Collins doubles back and follows them into the house. The girls are no-where to be seen. He looks around, puzzled.
elizabeth		Kitty? Lydia! She and Jane join them.
lydia		We just happened to be looking for some ribbon, didn't we, Kitty?
kitty		He picked up Lydia's gloves!
lydia		He's a lieutenant! Wickham bows.
wickham		I'm enchanted. Shall we all look at some ribbons together?
lydia		Oh yes!
wickham		Though I must warn you, I have very poor taste.
wickham		No, it's true. My rooms in town, decorated, I thought, in the height of fashion, have reduced grown men to tears of mirth.
mr wickham		And deny people such pleasure?
elizabeth		So you don't mind being laughed at?
mr wickham		Not particularly.
elizabeth		It is a somewhat sterile quality, is it not, to be aware of ones importance in the world.
wickham		Especially if, like me, one has none. Elizabeth looks at him with interest. A beat. The moment is broken by Lydia coming up.
lydia		Lizzie, please lend me some money!
mr wickham		Allow me to oblige.
elizabeth		No! Please - Mr Wickham! - Wickham gives Elizabeth a smile and moves away to the counter.
elizabeth		You're too generous.
wickham		I know. Fivepence halfpenny!
elizabeth		It all adds up.
lydia		I'll pay him back.
wickham		Oh yes. I'll make sure of that.
elizabeth		Will you be stationed here all winter, Mr Wickham?
wickham		That depends on what the French have in mind. Of course I look forward to action...  But on the other hand
jane		Lizzie - look! They stop. Jane's face lights up.
jane		Mr Bingley ! It is indeed Bingley, riding towards them. He is accompanied by Darcy. Bingley jumps off his horse and hurries over to Jane. His open, friendly face is filled with delight.
bingley		I was on my way to your house.
jane		Lydia!
bingley		I was just waiting until your sister was quite well.-
lydia		She is! Elizabeth pays no attention to the following conversation, instead she is looking at Darcy who, in turn, is staring at Wickham. They both obviously recognize each other and look very uncomfortable.
kitty		- when, then?
lydia		Be sure to invite Mr Wickham. Darcy turns and rides off without a word.
jane		Lydia, you can't just say that -
mr bingley		Will you excuse me ladies? Mr Wickham. Enjoy the day. Elizabeth looks at Wickham, puzzled.
kitty		Yes, white, they must be white.
lydia		White is the only colour to be worn this season.
sir william		So I believe. Mr Collins is at a table with Lady Lucas, he glances over at Elizabeth, as he talks.
collins		- of course, when you understand that Lady Catherine de Bourgh is its proprietor you will realise what an immense compliment that is. Lady Catherine spent eight hundred pounds on a chimney-piece alone. Wickham who has been talking to some of the other officers comes and sits beside Elizabeth, passing by Mr collins on the way.
wickham		 Your cousin is blessed with an uncommon capacity for charm. Elizabeth laughs and plays a hand.
lydia		Will you be attending the Netherfield ball, Mr Wickham?
wickham		I hope to.
elizabeth		About a month. Are you acquainted with, Mr Darcy?
wickham		Indeed, my fate has been very intimate with that gentleman. I have been connected with his family since infancy. Elizabeth is genuinely surprised, there is a pause while she is forced to play her hand.
elizabeth		As much as I could ever wish to be. I have spent four days in the same house as him, and I think him very disagreeable.
wickham		I cannot pretend to be sorry. Elizabeth blushes.
wickham		But really I speak out of turn. Collins voice breaks the moment.
collins		Miss Elizabeth, I was just saying to Sir William what appalling weather we've been having.
elizabeth		I think I shall take a little air. She rises and walks through the room towards a balcony. As she passes the other tables we follow and witness snippets of their conversations.
mary		At the moment she has more suitors than sense. Charlotte looks over at Mr Collins. Elizabeth passes Sir William's side of the table.
sir william		Now any one for a round of bridge? Elizabeth?
sir william		Mr Collins?
collins		Oh, I am not so familiar with the game, Sir William.
sir william		Absolute nonsense. I insist that you join us.
charlotte		Please, Mr Collins, I'd be happy if you'd
elizabeth		I hope your plans in favor of Meryton will not be affected by your difficult relations with the gentleman we were just speaking of.
wickham		Oh no - it is not for me to be driven away. If he wishes to avoid seeing me, he must go not I. Pause.
elizabeth		I must ask you Mr Wickham, what is the manner of your disapproval of Mr Darcy?
wickham		Do you really want to hear? Lizzie nods.
wickham		He ruined me. She stares at him.
elizabeth		How so?
wickham		My father managed his estate. We grew up together, Darcy and I. His father treated me like a second son. Oh he was the kindest of men and bequeathed me the best living in his gift, for I had my heart set on joining the church. But when he died Darcy ignored his wishes and gave the living to another man.
lizzie		Why did he do that?
wickham		Out of jealousy, for his father loved me more than he loved him.
lizzie		How cruel! Are you sure?
lydia		Aggghh!
kitty		Breathe in! We move to the quieter preparations of Jane and Elizabeth. This conversation has been going on for some time.
jane		0 How could Mr Darcy do such a thing? I will discover the truth from Mr Bingley at the ball this evening.
elizabeth		If it is not true let Mr Darcy contradict it himself. But until he does, I hope never to encounter him.
jane		Poor, unfortunate Mr Wickham.
elizabeth		On the contrary, he is twice the man Darcy is.
jane		And lets hope for you a rather more willing dancer. Jane leaves Elizabeth, at the mirror, taking very particular care of her makeup. she smil6s to herself.
bingley		You're here! I'm so pleased.
jane		And so am I.
bingley		How are you, Miss Elizabeth? Elizabeth is not paying attention, instead she is searching over Mr Bingleys' shoulder for a sight of Wickham.
bingley		Are you, looking for someone?
elizabeth		No, no not at all. Admiring the splendor of the ball.
jane		It is lovely, Mr Bingley. Bingley and Jane move off leaving Elizabeth with Mrs Bennet and others. While Mrs Bennet talks we focus on Elizabeth searching the sea of red coats.
mrs bennet		(refering to Jane and
charlotte		Perhaps he is in the ballroom. They both walk into the ball room. We pull back to reveal a sea of dancers. Wickham is nowhere to be seen. Jane appears and catches Elizabeths arm.
jane		He's not here. Apparently otherwise detained. The disappointment is palpable on Elizabeth's face.
elizabeth		Detained? Mr Collins arrives, breathless. He smiles eagerly at Elizabeth.
collins		There you are.
elizabeth		Mr Collins. What a pleasant surprise.
mr collins		Perhaps you will do me the honour, Miss Elizabeth?
elizabeth		Oh. I didn't think you danced, Mr Collins.
mr collins		I do not consider it incompatible with the office of a clergyman to indulge in such an innocent diversion. Elizabeth tries to smile, politely.
collins		To be sure, dancing is of little consequence to me, but it does afford the opportunity to lavish'ones partner with delicate attentions which is my primary object of the evening. Elizabeth turns as part of the dance and for a moment she dances beside Jane.
jane		Apparently Your Mr Wickham has been called on some business to town, though my informer told me he would have been less inclined to be engaged had it not been for the presence at Netherfield of a certain gentleman. Jane indicates towards where Darcy stands watching them.
elizabeth		That gentleman barely warrants the name. The dance leads Elizabeth back to Mr Collins.
darcy		May I have the next dance, Miss Elizabeth. Elizabeth is stunned.
elizabeth		You may. Darcy walks away.
elizabeth		What was I thinking? Have I no presence of mind?l
charlotte		I dare say you will find him very agreeable, Lizzie.
elizabeth		Heaven forbid! That would be the greatest misfortune of all - to find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!
elizabeth		I do love a Sarabande.
darcy		Indeed. Most invigorating. They continue, for a moment, in silence.
elizabeth		It is your turn to say something, Mr Darcy - I talked about the dance, now you ought to remark on the size of the room or the number of couples.
darcy		I am perfectly happy to oblige, please advise me of what you would like most to hear.
elizabeth		That reply will do for the present. Perhaps by and bye I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones. But for now we may be silent.
darcy		Do you talk as a rule while dancing?
elizabeth		We are each of an unsocial, taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say something that will - amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all the eclat of a proverb. So a little lubrication to avoid embarrassment might be advantageous.
darcy		I see no striking resemblance of your own character in this, how near it is to mine I cannot say.  Tell me do you and your sisters very often walk to Meryton?
elizabeth		Very mild weather we've been having.
dancing partner		 Sorry. The dance spins again and she is back with Darcy.
elizabeth		Yes, we often walk to Meryton - it is a great opportunity to meet new people. In fact when you met us we had just had the pleasure of forming a new acquaintance.
darcy		I will admit your Mr Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his making friends - whether he is capable of retaining them is less certain.
elizabeth		He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship. I remember hearing you once say that your resentment once created was unappeasable. You are very cautious, I suppose, as to its being created?
darcy		I am. May I ask to what these questions tend.
elizabeth		To make out your character, Mr Darcy.
darcy		And what have you discovered?
elizabeth		very little. The dancefinishes.
darcy		I hope to afford you more clarity in the future.
caroline bingley		Miss Elizabeth. Let me recommend you as a friend not to give too much confidence to all of the assertions your friend Mr Wickham might make. He is indeed a charming man, but one should never forget from where he is descended.
elizabeth		His lack of trustworthiness and descent appear by your account to be the same thing,
caroline bingley		Please excuse my interterence, it was kindly meant. A breathless Mr Collins appears.
collins		Is that Mr Darcy, of Pemberley in Derbyshire?
elizabeth		I believe so.
collins		But I must make myself known to him immediately!
elizabeth		But sir -
collins		He is the nephew of my esteemed patroness, Lady Catherine.
elizabeth		Please, Mr Collins! He'll consider it an
caroline bingley		What interesting relatives you have, Miss Bennet. Elizabeth walks away into another room.
elizabeth		Aren't you going to do something?
mr bennet		Mary dear, you've delighted us long enough.
mary		But they asked for another song. Mr Bennet shuts the lid.
mr bennet		Let the other young ladies have a turn.
elizabeth		Perhaps my family have made a competition to see who can expose themselves to the most ridicule.
charlotte		Well, at least Bingley has not noticed.
elizabeth		Yes. I think he likes her very much.
charlotte		But does she like him? There are few of us who are secure enough to be really in love without proper encouragement. Bingley likes her enormously but might not do more if she does not help him on.
elizabeth		She is just shy and modest. If he does not perceive her regard he is a fool.
charlotte		We are all fools in love. He does not know her character as we do. She should move fast. Snap him up. There is plenty of time for us to get to know them after we're married - Elizabeth looks over the dancefloor to see Lydia dancing with a soldier. she's a little drunk, and very flirtatious. He says something; she shrieks with laughter.
mrs bennet		I have never had such a good time in my life. Mr Bingley you must have such a ball once a month at least. Caroline who is standing with her brother, yawns ostentatiously.
elizabeth		Mother. I really think it is time to go.
mrs bennet		Don't be impertinent. our hosts are perfectly happy with our company, are you not, Mr Bingley? I hope I can entice you to Longbourn to sample our hospitality. We would make sure you had 3 or 4 courses at least. She holds out her glass for a top up and carries on.
elizabeth		Really. This is enough. Darcy looking down at Elizabeth from a staircase. He turns and walks away.
mrs bennet		Allowing for new carriages, dresses etcetera, etcetera. We will be having a wedding here at Netherfield in less than three months, if you ask me. Mr Bennet? Mr Bennet! 5o INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - LONGBOURNE - DAY. 50 The Bennets eat in silence. Jane.yawns. Mrs Bennet moans - she is hungover. Mr Collins comes in in a state of agitation. They look at him. He sits, hesitates, then
mrs bennet		Oh! Yes. Certainly - Lizzy would be very happy indeed. Please -- go ahead. No time like the present. Everyone. Out. Mr Collins would like a private audience with your sister. Everyone looks in amazement.
elizabeth		Wait. I beg you. Mr Collins can have nothing to say to me.that anybody need not hear.
mrs bennet		No. Nonsense, Lizzy. I desire you-will stay where you are. Everyone else, to the drawing room. Mr Bennet.
mr bennet		But...
mrs bennet		Now! Mrs Bennet makes sure everyone leaves, winks at Mr Collins then shuts the door before Elizabeth has time to do anything. Elizabeth looks at Mr Collins who looks at her in earnest. There is a horrible pause of intense embarrassment.
mr collins		Dear Miss Elizabeth, you can hardly doubt the purpose of my discourse. My attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as soon as I entered the house I singled you out as the companion of my future life. Elizabeth stares at him, astonished.
mr collins		But before I am run away with my feelings perhaps I may state my reasons for marrying. Firstly, that it is the duty of a clergyman to set the example of matrimony in his parish.
mr collins		My object in coming to Longbourn was to choose such a one from amongst Mr Bennet's daughters, for as you know I am next in the entail of the estate and such an alliance will surely make amends for this.  And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affections.
elizabeth		Mr Collins -
mr collins		And that no reproach on the subject of fortune will cross my lips once we are married.
elizabeth		You are too hasty, sir! You forget that I have made no answer.
elizabeth		Sir, I am honoured by your proposal, but regret I must decline it.
mr collins		(momentarily taken aback, but
elizabeth		 Mr Collins, I am perfectly serious. You could not make me happy and I'm convinced I'm the last woman in the world who could make you happy.
elizabeth		 Mr Collins -
mr collins		So I must conclude that you simply seek to increase my love by suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females.
elizabeth		Sir! I am not the sort of female to torment a respectable man. Please understand me - I cannot accept you! Elizabeth storms out of the room and out of the house. Mrs Bennet crashes in through another door, hot on the tail of Elizabeth.
mrs bennet		Declined indeed! The headstrong, foolish
collins		Thank you, but... Head strong?
mrs bennet		- we shall have this little hiccup dealt with immediately, Mr Collins. Mrs Bennet goes chases after Elizabeth. Mr Collins watches through a window as Elizabeth is chased by her mother.
mrs bennet		Oh Mr Bennet. We are all in a uproar. You must come and make Lizzy marry Mr Collins, for she vows she will not have him.
mrs bennet		Mr Collins, Mr Collins has proposed to Lizzie. But Lizzy declares she will not have him, and now the danger is Mr Collins may not have Lizzy.
mr bennet		And what am I to do? Mrs Bennet drags Mr Bennet to his feet.
mrs bennet		Speak to Lizzy. They march to find Elizabeth.
mrs bennet		Tell her that you insist upon them marrying.
lizzie		Papa, please - '.
mrs bennet		You will have this house!
lizzie		I can't marry him!
mrs bennet		You'll save your sisters from destitution!
lizzie		I can't! -
mrs bennet		Go back now and say you've changed your mind!
lizzie		No!
mrs bennet		Think of your family!
lizzie		You can't make me!
mrs bennet		Mr Bennet, say something!
mrs bennet		Yes, or I shall never see her again?
mr bennet		Well, Lizzie. From this day on you must be a stranger to one of your parents -
mr bennet		Your mother will never see you again if you do not marry Mr Collins, and I will never see you again if you do.
elizabeth		Thank you, papa. Elizabeth turns around and walks into the drawing room.
mrs bennet		Oh, ungrateful child! I shall never speak to her again! Not that I have much pleasure in talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer... She jabbers on but her voice fades. We're with Jane, re- reading the letter.
elizabeth		What's wrong, Jane? Close on Jane's pale face. She's staring at the letter.
elizabeth		I don't understand. What would take him from Netherfield? Why would he not know when he was to return?
jane		I have no reserves from you. Jane passes Elizabeth the letter.
elizabeth		"Mr Darcy is impatient to see his sister and we are scarcely less eager to meet her again. I really do not think Georgina Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance and accomplishments, so much so I must hope to hereafter call her my sister. It is my duty to indulge you in no hope in this respect for your own self."
jane		Is that not clear enough?
elizabeth		Miss Bingley sees that her brother is in love with you and is gone with him to persuade him otherwise.
jane		But I know her to be incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone.
elizabeth		He loves you, Jane. Do not give up. Go to our aunt and uncle's in London.
mrs bennet		Give my love to my sister. And try not to be so much of a burden, dear. Jane's carriage moves away and the family wave. Mr Bennet talks to Elizabeth.
mr bennet		Poor Jane. However, a girl likes to be crossed in love now and then. It gives her something to think of, and a sort of distinction among her companions.
mr bennet		It's your turn now, Lizzie. Since you've turned down Mr Collins you're free to go off and be jilted yourself. What about Mr Wickham? He is a pleasant fellow and would do the job credibly.
elizabeth		Thank you, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We must not all expect Jane's good fortune.
mr kennet		Still, it's a comfort to know that whatever might befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will be sure to make the most of it. A small smile from Elizabeth.
charlotte		My dear Elizabeth, I've come here to tell you the news.
elizabeth		What news?
elizabeth		Engaged?
elizabeth		No, no...  Of course not.
charlotte		He asked for my hand this morning .and I accepted him. Elizabeth looks quite faint. Charlotte sits on the bed. Elizabeth, after a pause, sits down beside her.
charlotte		I can see you're surprised - coming so soon after his wishing to marry you...
charlotte		I'm not a romantic, you know. I ask only a comfortable home, and considering Mr Collin's character, and situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can hope for.
elizabeth		And that's all you expect?
charlotte		For women in our situation, what choice is there?
charlotte		- to become an old maid, at best tolerated, at worst a burden, dependent on the kindness of others? Or to seek the protection of marriage.
elizabeth		And we only have two choices?
charlotte		Yes. An appalled silence. Elizabeth gazes at her closest friend. Charlotte has recovered herself. she now looks cool and composed - unnervingly so.
elizabeth		You can still change your mind, Charlotte.
charlotte		 I'm twenty-seven years old. We hear the sound of the militia drums...
lydia		It's too dreadful! They're leaving for Brighton.
elizabeth		All of them?
kitty		They got the call this morning.
lydia		Not a word of warning! Lydia wails. Elizabeth searches the red coats for Wickham. She spots him, he glances across at her, she gives a pathetic wave and he's gone. Lydia and Kitty chase the last of the officers, leaving Elizabeth alone. She walks into the post office.
postmaster		Bad news, Miss?
elizabeth		It could not be worse. I have been invited to possibly the very last place on earth I would like to go.
mr collins		Welcome to our humble abode...
charlotte		My dear, I think our guest is tired after her journey. Come on, Lizzie, let's get some tea.
mr collins		My wife encourages me to spend as much time in the garden as possible, for the sake of my health. A beat. Lizzie glances at Charlotte, who remains impassive.
mr collins		I plan many improvements, of course.  Oh yes, I flatter myself that any young lady would be happy to be the mistress of such a house. A tiny nod from Elizabeth. She understands perfectly.
charlotte		We shall not be disturbed here, for this parlour is for my own particular use.
charlotte		Its all right. Its just Lady Catherine.
elizabeth		I have not heard from Mr Wickham since the regiment left for Brighton, but I am informed by Lydia who keeps a breast of all matters military that he does very well.
charlotte		Oh Lizzie. we hear Mr Collins rushing back into the house, and running up the stairs.
collins		One of the most extraordinary sights in all Europe, is it not. The glazing alone cost upwards of twenty thousand pounds.
collins		 This way!
mr collins		Your Ladyship.  Miss de Bourg. Lady Catherine is a haughty, bossy woman. Pretty unspeakable, really. Her daughter is a sickly, irritable- looking creature.
lady catherine		So you are Elizabeth Bennet.
elizabeth		I am, your ladyship.
lady catherine		 This is my daughter.
mr collins		 is with him.
elizabeth		Mr Darcy! What are you doing here?
mr collins		Mr Darcy!  I had no idea we would have the honour... A stiff bow from Darcy, who looks at Mr Collins as if he's something brought in by the dog. He turns to Lizzie, trying to collect himself.
elizabeth		Yes, madam, I had the pleasure of meeting him in Hertfordshire. Darcy's friend Fitzwilliam, a much more easy-going chap, introduces himself.
fitzwilliam		Colonel Fitzwilliam. How do you do? He bows. Lizzie returns his smile gratefully. They move towards the dining room. Mr Collins leans towards Lizzie.
elizabeth		Really? Miss Bingley will be disappointed to hear that.  What a sickly, cross little thing! Oh yes, they should suit each other very well. Charlotte smiles back, a little fearfully. She's more intimidated by Rosings than Elizabeth is, and indeed has more at stake. 68 INT. DINING ROOM - ROSINGS - NIGHT. f 9 The dining room is laid for a very grand dinner -- footmen waiting, thousands of candles.
lady catherine		You sit there and you sit there. Mr Collins! You can't sit next to your wife! After some awkward shuffling around they all sit down. Lizzie, much to her discomfort, finds herself sitting next to Darcy. There is a pause.
mr darcy		I trust your family is in good health, Miss Bennet?
elizabeth		They are, thank you.
lady catherine		Do you play the pianoforte, Miss Bennet?
elizabeth		A little, ma'am, and very poorly.
lady catherine		Oh. Do you draw?
elizabeth		No, not at all.
lady catherine		Your sisters, do they draw?
elizabeth		Not one.
lady catherine		That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of the masters.
elizabeth		My mother would have no objection but my father hates London.
lady catherine		Has your governess left you?
elizabeth		We never had a governess. Mr Collins squirms in embarrassment. Darcy watches Elizabeth, keenly.
lady catherine		No governess? Five daughters brought up at home without a governess, I never heard such a thing! Your mother must have been quite a slave to your education.
elizabeth		 Not at all, Lady Catherine.
lady catherine		Mmmm. Are any of your younger sisters out?
elizabeth		Yes, ma'am. All.
lady catherine		All! What, five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second - the younger ones out before the elders are married! Your youngest sisters must be very young.
elizabeth		Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. But I think it would be very hard on younger sisters, not to have their share of amusement because the elder is still unmarried. And to be kept back on such a motive! It would hardly encourage sisterly affection.
lady catherine		Upon my word, you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?
lady catherine		Come, Miss Bennet, and play for us!
elizabeth		No, I beg you -
lady catherine		For music is my delight. In fact there are few people in England who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or better natural taste. If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient.
elizabeth		Please, I told you I play poorly -
lady catherine		How does Georgina get along, Darcy?
darcy		She plays very well.
lady catherine		I hope she practises. No excellence can be acquired without constant practice. I have told Mrs Collins this.  Though you have no instrument of your own you are very welcome to come to Rosings and play on the piano in the housekeeper's room.
charlotte		Thank you, your ladyship.
lady catherine		You would be in nobody's way", you know, in that part of the house. Darcy flinches at her bad manners. He moves away to the piano where Lizzie is playing - not that terribly well, it must be said. A moment passes.
elizabeth		You mean to frighten me, Mr Darcy, by coming in all your state to hear me, but I won't be alarmed even though your sister does play so well.
darcy		I am well enough acquainted with you, Miss Bennet, to know I cannot alarm you even should I wish it. A beat. They eye each other warily. Colonel Fitzwilliam joins them.
elizabeth		You really care to know? The colonel nods.
elizabeth		Prepare yourself for something very dreadful.
lady catherine		Fitzwilliam! Come here and talk to us! 0 Fitzwilliam moves away. Darcy and Elizabeth are alone.
darcy		I do not have the talent of conversing easily with people I have never met before.
elizabeth		Maybe you should take your aunt's advice and practice. Ouch! Darcy flinches. Lizzie turns away from him and carries on playing. Darcy gazes at the curve of her neck. She plays a false note, stumbles, and grimly carries on.
elizabeth		Please, do be seated.
darcy		This is a charming house. I believe my aunt did a great deal to it when Mr Collins first arrived.
elizabeth		I believe so -- and she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful
darcy		Mr Collins seems very fortunate in his choice of wife.
elizabeth		He is indeed lucky to have found one of the few sensible women who would have accepted him. Darcy sits down.
elizabeth		Shall I call for some tea?
darcy		No. Thankyou. The sound of the front door, and voices. Darcy jumps up.
darcy		Good day, Miss Bennet. It's been a pleasure. He bows to her and leaves. Elizabeth sits there, bemused and intrigued.
charlotte		What on earth have you done to poor Mr Darcy?
elizabeth		How long do you plan to stay in Kent, Colonel?
fitzwilliam		As long as Darcy chooses. I am at his disposal.
elizabeth		I do imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly to have someone to order around. I wonder he does not marry and secure a lasting convenience of that kind.
fitzwilliam		She would be a lucky woman.
elizabeth		Really?
fitzwilliam		Darcy is a most loyal companion. From what I heard, on our journey here, he recently came to the rescue of one of his friends just in time. Darcy, waylaid by various people, comes out of the church. His eyes search for Elizabeth. He sees her with Fitzwilliam and hesitates. Too late! Mr Collins steps up to him and engages him in conversation. Elizabeth stops, at the churchyard gate.
elizabeth		What happened?
fitzwilliam		He saved the man from an imprudent marriage.
fitzwilliam		His closest friend. Mr Bingley. A silence.
elizabeth		Did Mr Darcy give you his reasons for this interference?
fitzwilliam		There were apparently strong objections to the lady.
elizabeth		What kind of objections? Her lack of fortune?
fitzwilliam		I think it was her family that was considered unsuitable.
elizabeth		So he separated them?
fitzwilliam		I believe so. I know nothing else. Elizabeth grows pale. She turns to look at Darcy who is joined by his aunt.
elizabeth		I wish Mr Darcy and all his friends well in finding partners suitable to their very high standards. Good morning, Col. Fitzwilliam. 76 Elizabeth see that Collinses are still busy with their 76 parishioners and slips away. Darcy sees her from a distance.
darcy		Miss Bennet, I have struggled in vain but I can bear it no longer ... . The past months have been a torment... He pauses, unable to speak. Elizabeth stares at him in astonishment. He struggles on.
darcy		I came to Rosings with the single object of seeing you...I had to see you...
elizabeth		Me?
darcy		I've fought against my better judgement, my family's expectation...
elizabeth		I don't understand...
darcy		Please do me the honour of accepting my hand. A silence. Elizabeth struggles with the most painful confusion of feeling. Finally she recovers.
elizabeth		Yes, sir.
darcy		Are you laughing at me?
elizabeth		No?
darcy		Are you rejecting me?
darcy		Might I ask why, with so little endeavour at civility, I am thus repulsed?
elizabeth		 I might as well enquire why, with so. evident a design of insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me against your better judgement. If I was uncivil, that was some excuse -
darcy		Believe me, I didn't mean -
elizabeth		But I have other reasons, you know I have!
darcy		What reasons?
elizabeth		Do you think that anything might tempt me to accept the man who has ruined, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most beloved sister? Silence. Darcy looks as if he's been struck across the face.
elizabeth		Do you deny it, Mr Darcy? That you separated a young couple who loved each other, exposing your friend to the censure of the world for caprice, and my sister to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind?
darcy		I do not deny it.
darcy		Because I believed your sister indifferent to him.
elizabeth		Indifferent?
darcy		I watched them most carefully, and realized his attachment was much deeper than hers.
elizabeth		That's because she's shy!
darcy		Bingley too is modest, and was persuaded that she didn't feel strongly for him.
elizabeth		Because you suggested it!
darcy		I did it for his own good.
elizabeth		My sister hardly shows her true feelings to me!  I suppose you suspect that his fortune had some bearing on the matter?
elizabeth		What was?
darcy		It was made perfectly clear that-an advantageous marriage...
elizabeth		Did my sister give that impression?
darcy		There was, however, I have to admit... the matter of your family -
elizabeth		Our want of connection? Mr Bingley didn't vex himself about that!
darcy		No, it was more than that.
elizabeth		How, sir?
darcy		 It pains me to say this, but it was the lack of propriety shown by your mother, your three younger sisters - even, on occasion, your father. Forgive me. Lizzie blushes. He has hit home. Darcy paces up and down.
darcy		You and your sister -- I must exclude from this... Darcy stops and gazes at her. He is in turmoil. Elizabeth glares at him, in a blaze of fury and misery.
elizabeth		And what about Mr Wickham?
darcy		Mr Wickham?
elizabeth		What excuse can you give for your behavior to him?
darcy		You take an eager interest in that gentleman's concerns!
elizabeth		He told me of his misfortunes.
darcy		Oh yes, his misfortunes have been very great indeed!
elizabeth		You have ruined his chances, and yet treat him with sarcasm?
darcy		So this is your opinion of me! Thank you for explaining so fully. Perhaps these offences might have been overlooked, if your pride had not been hurt -
elizabeth		My pride?
darcy		- by my honesty in admitting scruples about our relationship.
elizabeth		And those are the words of a gentleman? From the first moment I met you, your arrogance and conceit, your selfish distain of the feelings of others, made me realize that you were the last man in the world I could ever be prevailed upon to marry. Darcy recoils, as if slapped. A terrible silence.
darcy		Forgive me, madam, for taking up so much of your time. He leaves, abruptly. Elizabeth watches him stride away, through the rain. What has she done? She bitterly bursts into tears.
charlotte		Elizabeth!
elizabeth		I was caught somewhat off-guard.
charlotte		Shall I call the doctor?
elizabeth		No! Charlotte, I shall be quite all right. Please, give Lady de Bourgh my apologies. You must not keep her waiting. Mr Collins clatters up the stairs.
collins		(popping his head around the
cut to		Later; The sound of the front door closing. Elizabeth sits down, heavily, on the bed. She walks downstairs and enters the drawing room.
darcy		I came to leave you this. He places a letter on the table behind her. Elizabeth does not turn but watches him through the mirror.
charlotte		Lizzy: Are you alright?
elizabeth		I do not know. I hardly know myself. Elizabeth looks at Charlotte utterly shaken.
mrs gardiner		How fortunate, you are here just in time to catch everybody coming through from Longbourn.
elizabeth		How is Jane? Mrs Gardiner smiles sadly.
mrs gardiner		She is outside. Through a window Elizabeth sees Jane sitting quietly alone at her needle work.
jane		I am quite over him, Lizzie. If he passed in the street I would hardly notice. London is so diverting...
elizabeth		oh Jane...
jane		Its true! What with the theatre and... But tell me, what news from Kent?
elizabeth		Nothing. Everything as you might imagine. Elizabeth tries to smile. There is a crash as all the Bennet's arrive at the house. Kitty rushes into the garden crying her eyes out, she is followed by Lydia and Mrs Bennet.
kitty		Lizzie, tell mama, tell her!
elizabeth		Kitty, what's happened?
lydia		- because she likes me better.
kitty		I've just as much right as Lydia -
mrs bennet		Oh, if I could but go to Brighton -
kitty		- and more so, because I'm two years older! Elizabeth looks to Jane.
jane		Lydia has been invited to Brighton with the Foresters.
mrs bennet		A little sea-bathing would set me up very
lydia		I shall dine with the officers every night! An anguished wail from Kitty.
mrs bennet		I'm sure I cried for two days when Colonel Millar's regiment went away. thought I should have broke my heart.
lizzie		Mother! Are you all mad? She glares at them, deeply upset -- by them, by everything.
elizabeth		Please Papa, don't let her go!
mr bennet		Lydia will never be easy till she has exposed herself in some public place or other, and we can never expect her to do it with so little inconvenience as under the present circumstances.
elizabeth		 If you, dear father, will not take the trouble to check her, she will be fixed forever as the silliest and most determined flirt who ever made her family ridiculous. And Kitty will follow, as she always does.
mr kennet		We shall have no peace until she goes.
elizabeth		 Peace! Is that all you care about?
mr bennet		Colonel Forster is a sensible man and will keep her out of any real mischief, and she is far too poor to be an object of prey to anyone.
elizabeth		Father, its dangerous! -
mr bennet		I'm sure the officers will find women better worth their while. Let us hope, in fact, that her stay in Brighton will teach her her own insignificance. At any rate she can hardly grow any worse, without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest of her life. Elizabeth gazes at her father - will nothing touch him? He gave up on his daughter long ago. For this, just now, she hates him.
elizabeth		No wonder our family is treated with contempt. She leaves, tears stinging her eyes. Her father looks puzzled at her outburst.
mr bennet		Well, at least the house will be quieter.
elizabeth		I don't wish to be stuck with such a foolish family any longer, with your constant talk of men and marriages. Surely there is more to life.
mrs gardiner		Lizzie dear, you would be very welcome to accompany us?
mr gardiner		Oh yes. We plan to journey through the Peak District. You'd be most welcome.
mary		Oh, the glories of nature! What are men, compared to rocks and mountains?
elizabeth		Believe me, men are either eaten up with arrogance or stupidity. And if they're amiable they're so easily led that they have no minds of their own whatsoever.
mrs gardiner		Take care, my love, that savours strongly of bitterness.
elizabeth		No, they bring nothing but heartache.
elizabeth		I saw Mr Darcy when I was in Rosings.
jane		Why did you not tell me. Did he mention Mr Bingley. Pause.
elizabeth		No. He did not. Elizabeth has never felt more alone in the company of her sister.
woman		 He's been taking the waters at Buxton.
her husband		But we've had a fine time, haven't we dear?
woman		We've visited Chatsworth, Dovedale,
mrs gardiner		Pemberley?
woman		Just two miles from here. close, very close, on Lizzie's face.
her husband		One of the best houses in the country.
mrs gardiner		Well, we shall go there tomorrow, Lizzie.
elizabeth		I would rather stay here.
mrs gardiner		Stay here?
mrs gardiner		But you liked Chatsworth.
elizabeth		If it is anything like Mr Darcy, I am sure I will not be able to bear it.
mrs gardiner		Come, come, Lizzie.
mr gardiner		Let us not make a fuss. If the girl does not want to go there is little point in persuading her.
elizabeth		I hear that Pemberley is not far from here.
maid		Yes, madam.
elizabeth		You see something of the owner, do you, in town?
maid		Not for some months, madam, for he's still in London, I believe. A pause. Close on Elizabeth's face.
mrs gardiner		I'm so glad you changed your mind. Elizabeth is alert, her eyes bright with curiosity. The parkland is wild and rocky. Deer graze; rooks wheel in the sky. A sense of freedom and liberation. As the carriage drives over the top of a hill, close on Elizabeth's face. She gasps. The Gardiners gasp. A huge, wide shot of Pemberley House. It's vast, breathtakingly beautiful, set in great boulder-strewn park lands. A mansion built of golden stone, glowing in the sunlight.
mrs gardiner		Imagine being mistress of all this. It is as big as all Cheapside. Elizabeth is lost in admiration.
mrs reynolds		This is my master - Mr Darcy.
mrs gardiner		A handsome face. Lizzie, is it a true likeness of him?
mrs reynolds		Does this young lady know Mr Darcy?
elizabeth		Only a little.
mrs reynolds		And do you not think him a handsome man, Miss?
mrs reynolds		And this is his sister, Miss Georgians. She plays and sings all day long. We realize that in the distance we have heard music. Elizabeth is still gazing at the portrait of Darcy, then suddenly snaps out of her reverie, as she processes Mrs
elizabeth		They are at home?!
mrs reynolds		Miss Darcy is always down for the summer. Mr Darcy is due here tomorrow.
mr gardiner		Is your master much at Pemberley?
mrs reynolds		Not as much as I would wish, sir, or he -- for he dearly loves it here. Relaxed again Elizabeth wanders off as the Gardiners talk to Mrs Reynolds.
mrs gardiner		If he should marry, you might see more of him.
mrs reynolds		Yes madam, but I do not know when that will be. I do not know a lady who is good enough for him.
mrs gardiner		What do you mean?
mrs reynolds		I've known Mr Darcy since he was a boy. He was always a kind and generous person even then. Not everyone can see it, because he does not make a meal of it like a lot of young men nowadays. But he is the most sweet-tempered and kind- hearted man I have ever known.  CUT TO: As the Gardiners look at more paintings, Elizabeth drifts out through the open doors and onto a terrace. In the bright sunlight the view of the gardens and valley beyond is exquisite. Outside the music we heard before is louder.  92 EXT. TERRACE - PEMBERLY - THE SAME. 92  Elizabeth wanders aimlessly across the terrace, being unconsciously drawn by the music. Suddenly Elizabeth recognizes the tune . She follows the music round a corner, intrigued as she gets closer and closer to its source. She finally realizes she is outside the room where the music is being played.
darcy		Miss Bennet! Elizabeth stops, appallingly embarrassed. Darcy catches up with her. They both blush, deeply.
elizabeth		I thought you were in London.
elizabeth		No. Another ghastly silence. Then they both speak at once.
darcy elizabeth		I came here a day early - We wouldn't have come -
darcy elizabeth		-- some business with my I'm so terribly sorry -
elizabeth		I'm visiting Derbyshire with my uncle and aunt.
darcy		 And are you having a pleasant trip?
elizabeth		Very pleasant. Tomorrow we go to Matlock.
darcy		Tomorrow?
elizabeth		Yes. At the Rose and Crown. Another pause. She extends her hand.
elizabeth		I'm so sorry to intrude. They said the house was open for visitors. I had no idea... She shakes his hand and starts to walk away.
darcy		May I see you to the village?
elizabeth		Oh no! I'm very fond of walking.
darcy		Yes.
elizabeth		Goodbye, Mr Darcy.
darcy		- I shall send my carriage at noon After a moment Darcy leaves and Elizabeth approaches the table.
mr gardiner		Very civil.
mrs gardiner		Not at all like you painted him.
mrs gardiner		- there is something pleasing about his mouth, when he speaks.
mr gardiner		You don't mind delaying our journey for another day? Elizabeth shakes her head, dumbly.
mrs gardiner		He particularly wishes you to meet his sister.
elizabeth		His sister?
darcy		My sister, Miss Darcy... They smile and bob. Georgiana is a friendly, sweet girl.
georgiana		Miss Elizabeth, my brother has told me so much about you. I feel as if we are friends already.
elizabeth		What a beautiful instrument.
georgiana		My brother gave it to me.  He shouldn't have.
darcy		Yes I should.
georgiana		Oh very well then.
darcy		She's easily persuaded, is she not? They gaze at each other with affection. Miss Bingley approaches.
miss bingley		Very well. He hopes to come here soon. (significant glance at
miss bingley		And how is your family, Miss Bennet? Someone told me the militia are removed from Meryton.
darcy		Your uncle is fond of fishing, I hear.
elizabeth		Yes, very.
darcy		 Can you persuade him to borrow a rod this afternoon?
miss bingley		In six months I have never seen anyone so altered. How brown and coarse she has become!
darcy		I perceive no alteration' except she is rather tanned. Hardly a miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
miss bingley		I remember, when we first knew her in Hertfordshire, you said "she a beauty? I would have as soon called her mother a wit!"
darcy		You must have mis-heard, Caroline. Even had I thought it, I would have couched it
elizabeth		It is so beautiful up here. I will be sorry to leave. Darcy smiles at her.
elizabeth		You have been a most gracious host. I'm sure my aunt and uncle will talk of nothing else for days.
darcy		I have recently thought a great deal about how I appear and act to others.
elizabeth		It does you credit, sir.
mr gardiner		 What a capital fellow.
mrs gardiner		Thank you so much Mr Darcy. Darcy is about to take his leave when a servant brings Elizabeth a letter.
darcy		Miss Elizabeth. She cries on.
elizabeth		It is the most dreadful news. Lydia has run away - with Mr Wickham. They are gone together from Brighton to Lord knows where. She has no money, no connections, I fear she is lost forever.
darcy		 This is my fault - if only I had exposed Wickham when I should.
elizabeth		No, this is my fault. I might have prevented all of it by merely being open with my sisters rather than too proud with my knowledge. Mr and Mrs Gardiner look at each other perplexed.
mrs gardiner		Has anything been done to recover her?
elizabeth		Father has gone to London. But I know very well that nothing can be done. We have not the smallest hope.
darcy		Would to heaven that anything could be said or done on my part that could offer consolation to such distress.
elizabeth		Sir, it think it is too late.
mr gardiner		I am afraid we must go at once - I will join Mr Bennet and find Lydia before she ruins the family forever.
darcy		I am so very sorry. This is grave indeed. I will leave you. Goodbye. Darcy pauses at the door, looks back at Elizabeth and then is gone.
mrs bennet		Why did the Foresters let her out of their sight? I always said they were unfit to have charge of her.
mrs bennet		You are all ruined. Who will take you now with a fallen sister? Poor Mr Bennet will now have to fight the perfidious Wickham and then be killed...
elizabeth		He hasn't found him yet, Mama.
mrs bennet		- and The Collins' will turn us out before he is cold in his grave -
jane		Do not be alarmed, mama. Our uncle is helping in the search.
mrs bennet		Lydia must know what this will do to my nerves, such flutterings and spasms all over me...
mr bennet		Excuse me. They ignore him. He tries again
mr bennet		I am... I am looking for a Mr Wickham.
elizabeth		How long is this going to go on for?
jane		Don't be too harsh. This is hard for all of us. They walk downstairs.
elizabeth		I can't bear not hearing anything.
kitty		Look. It's Papa!
kitty		- who is to fight Wickham and make him marry Lydia, now you've come home?
mr bennet		For God's sake let me be!
jane		You suppose them to be still in London?
elizabeth		Oh father, I'm so sorry.
mr bennet		It's been my own doing.
elizabeth		You mustn't be too severe on yourself.
mr bennet		No Lizzie. Let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame.
jane		It's to Daddy. It's in uncle's writing. Mr Bennet snatches the letter.
mr bennet		As it is addressed to me... He tears it open and begins to read, squinting because he has forgotten his glasses.
kitty		Are they married?
mr bennet		 Just wait. I can't make out his script.
elizabeth		Give it to me. 
kitty		Are they married?
elizabeth		They will be, if father will settle a hundred pounds a year on her. That is Wickham's condition.
kitty		A hundred pounds!
elizabeth		You will agree to this, father? The letter is passed around the other girls.
mr bennet		Of course I will agree. But how much your uncle has laid on this wretched man already is anybody's guess.
kitty		What do you mean, Father?
mr bennet		No man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight a temptation as a hundred a year.
elizabeth		Ah, I see.
jane		See what?
mr bennet		Your uncle is very generous.
elizabeth		Do you think it a large sum?
mr bennet		Wickham's a fool if he takes her for less than ten thousand pounds. I should be sorry to think so ill of him in the very - beginning of our relationship.
jane		Ten thousand! Heaven forbid!
mrs bennet		Lydia married! And at sixteen too! Ring the bell, Kitty! I must put on my things and tell Lady Lucas! Oh to see her face! And tell the servants they will have a bowl of punch! The other Bennet's are assembled.
elizabeth		We should thank our uncle, Mama.
mrs bennet		And so he should help! He's much richer than us, and he hasn't got any children.
mrs bennet		A daughter, married!
elizabeth		Is that all you think about?
mrs bennet		"Mrs Wickham" - how well it sounds
mrs bennet		Now where will they live? Purvis Lodge might do. Ashworth is vacant of course, but it's too far off, I couldn't bear to have her ten miles from me -
mr bennet		Before you take any of these houses, Mrs Bennet, let us be clear. Into one house she will never be welcome. Mrs Bennet stares at him.
lydia		- and then we passed Sarah Sims in her carriage so I took off my glove and let my hand just rest on the window frame, so she might see the ring, and then 1 bowed and smiled like anything! Kitty shrieks with envy. Lizzie moves away; she cannot bear it. Wickham catches her eye, but she ignores him.
lydia		Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, for I am the married woman. She sits down and giggles at her sisters. The maid brings in the food. Lydia holds up her hand, to display her ring to the maid.
lydia		You must all go to Brighton, for that is the place to get husbands! I hope you have half my good luck.
wickham		I've been enlisted in a regiment in the north of England, sir. l f G MR BENNET
wickham		Near Newcastle. We shall travel there next week.
kitty		Can I come and stay with you?
mr bennet		That is out. of the question.
lydia		Well, Monday morning came and I was in such a fuss -
elizabeth		I don't want to hear -
lydia		- there was my aunt, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon, she was horrid unpleasant -
elizabeth		Can't you understand why?
lydia		- but I didn't hear a word because I was thinking of my dear Wickham. I longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat...
mary		The north of England, I believe, boasts some spectacular scenery...
lydia		- and then my uncle was called away from the church on business and I thought - who is to be our best man if he doesn't come back? Lucky he did come back or I would have had to ask Mr Darcy -
lydia		 I forgot! I shouldn't have said a word!
elizabeth		Mr Darcy was at your wedding?
lydia		Come on, Wickham! You've got to play.
kitty		Yes, come on! Wickham looks slightly abashed - a trapped man. What has he let himself in for? Lizzie comes into the garden, looking for her younger sister. Wickham detaches himself and comes over to her. A rueful smile.
wickham		I hope we can be even better friends, now we're brother and sister. An attempt at a twinkling smile, but Elizabeth is now immune to his charm. She nods, briefly.
wickham		I hear you visited Pemberley. My dear old home.
elizabeth		Very much.  We found a great deal to talk about.
lydia		I'm not supposed to tell. Lizzie abandons her pride. She takes Lydia's hand.
elizabeth		Please, Lydia!
lydia		Because he paid for it.
elizabeth		Everything?
lydia		People kept saying Wickham owed them money, it was so tedious. So Darcy settled his debts but I don't really like him, do you? Lizzie pulls her back.
elizabeth		But why did he do it?
butler		Mr Darcy.
darcy		I have some business with Mr Bingley. Darcy goes inside and the door shuts. The camera cranes slowly upstairs until we can see through the first floor window and into the drawing room. Mr Darcy enters and bows to Mr Bingley. He starts to talk in earnest. Bingley looks stunned by what Darcy is relaying to him. We witness the dumbshow of Darcy confessing that he has wronged Jane Bennet.
is		Lydia and Wickham are leaving. Mr Bennet stands at a distance. Mrs Bennet sobs as Lydia climbs onto the carriage.
mrs bennet		Write to me often, my dear'. Wickham takes his leave of Elizabeth.
wickham		Please relay my affections to the Darcy's on your next acquaintance. I am sure he will be pleased to hear things have worked out so well. He joins Lydia.
lydia		 Married women never have much time for writing. My sisters may write to me! They'll have nothing else to do. The Mrs Bennet and the girls watch as the carriage drives away.
elizabeth		That is the consequence of marrying a daughter. It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single.
mrs hill		Did you hear the news, madam? Mr Bingley is returning to Netherfield. A stunned silence. Lizzie glances at Jane. She blushes.
mrs bennet		Mr Bingley? Mrs Hill indicates a woman in the butcher's shop.
mrs hill		Mrs Nichols is ordering a haunch Of pork, for she expects him tomorrow.
mrs bennet		Tomorrow?
mrs hill		Yes, madam. I believe he is alone; his sister remains in town.
mrs bennet		Huh! Come along, girls. Their mother goes into the draper's shop. Jane pauses at the threshold.
kitty		He is here! He is here, he's at the door!
mrs bennet		Oh my goodness! Everybody act naturally. Jane completely freezes. Everybody else goes into a fluster.
kitty		Look. There's someone with him. Mr whats his name. The pompous one from before. Elizabeth looks through the window at Darcy, her heart leaps to her mouth.
mrs bennet		Mr Darcy indeed! The very insolence of 0 0 it. What does he think of coming here? Elizabeth returns to her seat and sits down, heavily. Mrs Bennet hurries over to Jane and pinches her cheeks.
jane		Mama!
mrs bennet		(to Mary - who is still
mrs bennet		- but it's very hard to have my Lydia taken away from me. Mr Wickham has been transferred to Newcastle, where ever that is. Thank heaven he has some friends. Mrs Bennet shoots a frosty glance at Mr Darcy. This is more than Elizabeth can bare.
elizabeth		Do you hope to stay long in the country, Mr Bingley?
bingley		Just a few weeks. For the shooting.
mrs bennet		When you have killed all your own birds, Mr Bingley, I beg you will come here and shoot as many as you please.
mr bingley		Thank you -
mrs bennet		- Mr Bennet will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the covies for you.
elizabeth		Are you well, Mr Darcy?
darcy		Quite well, thank you.
elizabeth		Well, I hope the weather stays fine, for your sport.
darcy		I return to town tomorrow.
mrs bennet		My Jane looks well, does she not? Mr-Bingley stands up abruptly.
bingley		She does indeed. Well, I must be going, I suppose. Darcy - Darcy cannot quite believe it. He gives Bingley a harsh stare, Bingley has not completed his task.
mrs bennet		You must come again. For when you were in town last winter you promised to take a family dinner with us. I have not forgot you see. At least three courses. Bingley and Darcy take their leave, leaving the Bennets sitting in silence all looking at once another. Kitty is fit to burst out laughing, Elizabeth and Jane horrified by the awkward visit.
bingley		Oh damn, damn, buggery, damn.
darcy		What were you thinking of? It's as if Bingley has not heard. He keeps pacing up and down.
bingley		Damn and blast, oh buggery, damn.
jane		Well, I'm glad that's over. We can now meet as indifferent acquaintances.
jane		You cannot think me so weak as to be in
elizabeth		I think you are in great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever.
jane		I'm sorry, though, that he came with Mr Darcy.
kitty		 It is him. He's back. He's come again. A stunned reaction.
bingley		I, erm, I know this is all very embarrassing, but I would like to request the privilege of speaking to Miss Jane - They all look at him.
mrs bennet		Girls. Everybody to the kitchen. Immediately. Oh, Mr Bingley. It is so good to see you again so soon. She ushers everyone out, not before squeezing Jane's hand. Now Jane and Bingley are alone, facing each other with extreme embarrassment.
bingley		Miss Bennet, you have been the victim of a huge misunderstanding. Suffice to say, I have been an unmitigated and comprehensive ass. And therefore, I would like to ask you -
mary		Ssssshhh! Elizabeth is apart from her family. She cannot bear to be there. She walks down the corridor and out of the house into the garden. Through a window she sees Bingley on one knee, her eyes fill with tears as she walks away from the house.
jane		Yes. A hundred times - yes. Mrs Bennet and the girls throw open the double doors to the drawing room and come crashing in. Bingley and Jane beam at them.
mrs bennet		Thank the Lord for that. I thought it would never happen.
mr bennet		I am sure they will do well together,
mrs bennet		Exceed their income? He has five thousand a year! I knew she could not be so beautiful for nothing. The camera moves through to another bedroom - where Mary is reading a book out loud to Kitty - then to yet another
jane		He has made me so happy. You know, he. was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring!
elizabeth		How did he account for it?
jane		He thought me indifferent!
elizabeth		Unfathomable.
jane		No doubt poisoned by his pernicious sister.
elizabeth		Bravo! That is the most unforgiving speech you've ever made.
jane		Oh Lizzie, if I could but see you so happy. If there were such another man for you! There is a noise outside.
elizabeth		Perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr Collins in time. What is that? More noise, it sounds like a carriage, then a loud banging on the door downstairs. The girls look at each other.
mary		Maybe he's changed his mind. Timidly, Mr Bennet opens the door revealing a wide-eyed Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Everyone gasps.
elizabeth		Lady Catherine! Lady Catherine does not acknowledge her, but comes in uninvited, inspecting the assembled company of aghast Bennets.
lady catherine		 And these are your daughters, I suppose.
mrs bennet		All but one, the youngest has been lately married your ladyship. And my eldest was only proposed to yesterday afternoon.
lady catherine		You have a very small garden, madam.
mrs bennet		I am sure it is nothing compared to Rosings, but it is larger than Sir William Lucas's, I can assure you.
lady catherine		Absolutely not! I must speak to Miss Elizabeth alone, as a matter of complete urgency. The Bennets all look at each other", bewildered by this strange turn of events.
lady catherine		You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand why I am`here. Lit only by the oil lamp Lady Catherine resembles a flickering ghoul.
elizabeth		Indeed you are mistaken. I can not account for this honour at all.
lady catherine		Miss Bennet, I warn you, I am not to be trifled with. A report of a most alarming nature has reached me that you intend to be united with my nephew, Mr Darcy. Elizabeth stares at her, amazed.
elizabeth		If you believed it impossible, I wonder you took the trouble of coming so far.
lady catherine		To hear it contradicted, Miss Bennet.
lady catherine		If? Do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been industriously circulated by yourself?
elizabeth		I have never heard of it.
lady catherine		And can you declare there is no foundation for it?
elizabeth		I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your ladyship. You may ask the questions, which I may not choose to answer.
lady catherine		This is not to be borne. Has my nephew made you an offer of marriage?
elizabeth		Your Ladyship declared it to be impossible.
lady catherine		Let me be understood. Mr Darcy is engaged to my daughter. Now what have you to say?
elizabeth		Only this - if that is the case you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me.
lady catherine		Oh obstinate girl! This union has been planned since their infancy. Do you think it can be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of no importance in the world and wholly unallied to his family? Whose own sister's elopement resulted in the scandalously patched-up marriage, only achieved at the expense of your uncle? Heaven and earth, are the shades of Pemberly to be thus polluted? Now tell me once and for all, are you engaged to him?
elizabeth		I am not.
lady catherine		And will you promise never to enter into such an engagement?
elizabeth		I will not. And I certainly never shall. Allow me to say, the arguments which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have, insulted me in every possible method and can now have nothing further to say. I must ask you to leave immediately. Good night. Elizabeth throws open.the door, revealing the family outside.
lady catherine		I have never been thus treated in my entire life. Lady Catherine storms past the family and out into the night. Elizabeth is standing shaking with the excitement of having stood so firmly up for herself.
mr bennet		Lizzie, what on earth is going on?
elizabeth		Just a small misunderstanding. She walks past them to bed.
mrs bennet		Lizzie!
elizabeth		For once in your life. Just leave me alone. Everyone looks aghast at Elizabeth's reaction.
elizabeth		Mr Darcy!
darcy		What are you doing out here so early?
elizabeth		I could not sleep.
darcy		Me neither. I have been up.most of the night.
elizabeth		Mr Darcy, I must thank you for your unexampled generosity to both my sisters. I know what kindnesses you have done for poor Lydia and suspect your hand in the happy resolution for Jane also.
darcy		I am alarmed that you know of what I have been so in earnest to keep silent. But you must know that your happiness was one of my prime inducements. Elizabeth looks at Darcy.
elizabeth		I am very happy to inform you that not only have my sentiments changed there are no other words which could give me greater pleasure. Darcy stares at her. They both start to cry. Darcy very, very slowly and gently touches her face. She closes her eyes. They kiss. She touches his face with her hand, the kiss becomes passionate.
mrs bennet		Lizzie, where have you been. We thought something had happened to you. Darcy follows Elizabeth in.
elizabeth		Mr Darcy has come to speak with Papa. Everyone is stunned.
mr bennet		Lizzie, are you out of your senses? I thought you hated the man.
elizabeth		No, Papa.
mr bennet		He is rich, to be sure, and you will have more fine carriages than Jane. But will that make you happy?
mr bennet		None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of fellow, but this would be nothing if you really liked him.
elizabeth		 I do like him!
mr bennet		What has he done?
mr bennet		Good Lord. I must pay him back.
elizabeth		 No, you mustn't tell anyone! He wouldn't want it.
mr bennet		You do love him, don't you? Elizabeth nods.
elizabeth		Very much. He looks at her earnestly, searching her face. He loves his daughter very deeply. What he sees leaves him in no doubt.
mr bennet		I cannot believe that anyone can deserve you, but it seems I am over-ruled. So I heartily give my consent. Elizabeth jumps up and puts her arms around him.
mr bennet		I could not have parted with you, my Lizzie, to any one less worthy.
elizabeth		Oh thank you! She starts to rush out.
mr bennet		 And if any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.
darcy		Allow me, Mrs Darcy. He puts out his hand. She takes it. He helps her up the rocks. When they get to the top they sit there, side by side, and gaze at the distant lights of Pemberley.
elizabeth		How did it begin?
darcy		I cannot fix the hour, or the spot, or
elizabeth		Now be sincere, did you admire me for my impertinenc?
darcy		For the liveliness of your mind, I did.
elizabeth		You may as well call it impertinence, though make a virtue of it by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and you are to exaggerate - them as much as possible. And, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as maybe... and I shall begin directly... We draw back-their figures diminish, smaller and smaller under the immense, star-spangled sky. . .Fainter and fainter, the sound of music and laughter...
****Dialogues from script :Priest.txt****

the kitchen		SHANNON PACE carries a bowl filled with a steaming green broth, placing it on the dinner table, moving aside a tiny FIGURINE OF JESUS. The surrounding furniture cluttered with religious knickknacks.
aaron		Special project. It's taking a little more time than I thought.
shannon		Nothing special about milkweed. Unless you like a thorn in the finger.
i aaron		It's not Milkweed. Not this year.
shannon		What is it?
aaron		You'll see. His eyes skate to her face moving in for the kiss -- but he's
aaron		Honey...we know this hasn't been easy for you -- In two years someone else'll study the soil and this'll be their outpost. But for right now -- this is my job.
lucy		I don't know what it's like to have a best friend. To have any friends. I want to have a crush. I want secrets.
shannon		Aaron. She's thirteen -- She should be with children her own age. Aaron lets out a breath.
aaron		Okay. Next year, we'll figure out a way to get you to a school close by. In town.
aaron		N year -- that's still plenty of time for you to have a "crush". Lucy deflates, knowing this is as good as it's going to get for awhile. Aaron takes her hand.
lucy		Dear Lord we thank you for what we are about to receive. Blessing us with your gifts... She.speaks with her eyes clenched shut, words spoken sincerely, nothing perfunctory about it. She's a believer.
aa ron		Shh. He cocks his ear, heading a low rumble. Although he's never heard the sound before...he knows it can' only mean one thing. Trying to remain calm, Aaron goes to the window.
aaron		Get by me. Shannon-and Lucy crouch at his feet.
shannon		Her body lying in the dirt, head lurching at an obscene' angle. He brushes back her hair -- ere' g UNCT_URE MABKS in hem neck. Crying, he cradles his, wife. Feverishly looking around for
leader		Go ahead ...scream.
leader		This ain't the war no more. You got no right meddlin'.
the girl		Gawks at Priest, possibly more frightened of him than the workers. He turns to her, wanting to comfort her but not knowing how -- She flinches and runs away, disappearing into the street. A BEAT as Priest pries the butcher blade from the hand, wiping it off. Tucks it in his waistband. He moves on.
koeppen		I caught the ambulance picking up what was left of the factory boys...figured it was your handywork. The Shape leans forward, we see it is Priest.
priest		This time there was a little girl.
koeppen		if this keeps occurring it'll be .impossible to keep it from the Clergy. You'll get us both excommunicated. Priest gazes into the vestibule, his voice almost a whisper.
priest		I want to see the other Priests.
koeppen		You know you can't. The Clergy forbids it.
priest		Why?
koeppen		They have their reasons. Priest flicks his eyes over Koeppen as if he could see through the vestibule, but his expression doesn't change.
priest		And their reasons for building more and more factories? The sky is turning black.
koeppen		Since when is. industriousness a sin? Did Jesus not teach us to be productive?
priest		You're my friend.
koeppen		I'm a wicked old man who'd sell his parish for a pint of whiskey. Priest seems to deflate, his hard shell cracking.
priest		I don't know what's happening to me. (7, Questions. Doubts. I'm not sure what it is. Koeppen slides the vestibule open so they are now face to face.
koeppen		The devil comes in many shapes. Do yourself a favor, keep your head down. Be smart. And most of all remember your oath... He hands Priest a set of ROSARY BEADS.
priest		Who is it?
priest		Thank you for meeting with me on such short notice, Monsignors. Even the Monsignors are uneasy'around Priest. Their leader, ORELAS, leans forward, addressing him.
monsignor orelas		Father Koeppen notified us of the situation. Our prayers are with your family.
priest		I come before you because I would like my authority to be reinstated.
monsignor orelas		On what grounds? Priest is taken aback.
priest		She's my blood, Monsignor.
monsignor orelas		The proper authorities are handling the situation. I'm sure they'll.do a fine job.
priest		The proper authorities?
monsignor orelas		All occurrences of vampire. disobedience and felonies are strictly a Federal matter now.
priest		But Monsignor...they are the enemy.
monsignor orelas		Were.the enemy. The war ended a long time ago.
priest		Not so long that we should forget what they are capable of.
monsignor orelas		You would do well to remember the words of our Savior: Turn the other cheek. Embrace your enemies.
monsignor orelas		You forget yourself, Priest... It has been brought to our attention that you have engaged in a number of transgressions. Tell me...do you feel yourself to be above God?
priest		No, Monsignor.
monsignor orelas		Engaging in any kind of practice is sacrilege -- You bring shame upon our house. Priest turns the full force of his gaze on him.
priest		"Let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in Heaven" --
monsignor orelas		You dare quote scripture to met Questioning the . authority. of the Clergy is forbidden1 If you engage in another transgression.you will be stripped from the Order and excommunicated immediately. Do I make myself clear?
priest		Yes, sir.'
monsignor orelas		I said do I make myself clear,. Father.
priest		Yes, Monsignor.
monsignor orelas		You're a soldier. God's soldier-- Act like one.
koeppen		I knew I'd find you here. He sits, pouring himself another drink, toasting the poor souls at the surrounding tables.
priest		Why won't they listen to me? A beat. Koeppen takes another drink.
koeppen		Okay. I'm going to.give you one more riddle and if you listen close - you might just hear an answer to your question. 
priest		You know I can't do that.
koeppen		That's what I figured.
priest		Why?
priest		Then ...I go against God. In an eyeblink -- Priest strips the gun from the nearby officer, CRACKING it against the trooper's head, his attack graceful and precise -- a whirlwind of PINPOINTED BLOWS and SHATTERED BONES. When it's over, eleven troopers lie on the ground writhing. Everything goes quiet.
priest		Folds his hands into the prayer position. VOONI There's a POP OF AIR and ---
silence		The: troopers look around confused -- their guns have disappeared.
koeppe4		Looks at his fancy whiskey bottle, inside now floats Priest's ROSARY BEADS. He fishes them from the bottle, hand shaking.
koeppen		Heaven help us. He takes a swig.
priest		oh my God...I am sorry for. having offended you. it was never my intention to do so... His words continue OVER
black motorcycle		if this thing were a horse it'd be the ultimate stallion-- Pulse engine. Nitrous. The works. A panel of black titanium solar cells covers the bike like armor. He races onto the street.
vroomi		Priest's cycle streaks across the salt flats. It's glorious.
behind him		Quietly, A COWBOY HAT and a SHOTGUN BARREL emerge from a hole in the floor.
cowboy hat		Alright, now -- Not another step. Climbing out from the hole, both barrels pointed, is SHERIFF HICKS . You could say the name fits. But you'd only be half right.
hicks		Thought you'd come back for a souvenir, hub? You gotta be the dumbest bloodsucker I ever come across. Priest steps into a pool of moonlight, illuminating his face.
priest		If I was a vampire you'd be dead already. The cross tattoo, a striking image. Hicks stares, pushing his hat back on his forehead.
hicks		I'll be dammed. He casually spits some ATOMIC CHAW, hitting the floorboards with a SIZZLE.
hicks		Scuse me a minute, He heads towards the crowd, the salesman continuing his pitch.
powdert		 If you care about your loved ones then you MUST have this amazing elixir in your homes tonight -- WHOOSH! A KNIFE slices through the air, spears the sack and pins it to a nearby wall with a THUNK. Hicks steps to the front of the crowd. it's his knife.
hicks		You best get in that van and clear on out, mister.
hicks		I got six right here.
hicks		That's one. KAPOW! The windshield cracks like a spiderweb.
crocker		You don't know'that. You're just a kid.
hicks		I seen enough two-bit hustlers and carry barkers. He ain't no better.
crocker		But what if he's right? Hicks tosses the sack to Crocker.
hicks		Take a look.  Ain't nothin' but sand, flour and maybe 'a little garlic.. Oldest trick in the
woman		And what about the girl? Hicks pauses. This is not easily said.
hicks		I filed a report with the Cities last night. I'm sure they're Join' all they can. The townspeople mutter amongst themselves. Hicks looks over to Priest, a GROUP OF CHILDREN have already gathered,. pointing and whispering at him.
hicks		I've already had one of the boys send for your brother. We got him put up at Paddy's place. Priest gazes out . the; window. A group of TOWNSPEOPLE are milling out front, staring at him.. He pulls down the shade.
aaron		comes through, looking older than the last time we saw him. Seeing Priest, his face cracks, smiling for the first time in days.
aaron		You came. Overcome, he wraps his arms around his brother, embracing. him. Priest hugs him back.
shannon's coffin		Lies in a freshly dug hole. Priest sprinkles dirt across.the casket, offering prayers. Aaron watches,. silently. A GROUP OF TOWNSPEOPLE encircle the grave. Everyone wearing black goggles for protection from the swirling dust.
hicks		Stands apart from the others, hat in his hands. His eyes focused on Priest. Not even watching as -- Aaron plants the RUBY RED FLOWER at the head of the grave. Its glorious color almost obscene in this barren wasteland.
paddy		Jackrabbit Stew. Never served no man of the cloth before. Hope you like it spicy, Father! He stands over both of them, eager for a response. Priest takes a sip, grimaces, tries his best to smile but fails hideously.
priest		.Delicious
paddy		 `Course it isl it was me Ma's recipe. As Paddy jubilantly walks away, Priest puts the bowl on the floor and the dog pads over, eagerly lapping it up. Aaron smiles.
aaron		How come you never came round more? You know you were always welcome.
priest		I know.
aaron		After the war was over we figured you'd stay with us. Shannon was real fond of you. Lucy too. She was always asking about you. Uncomfortable with the conversation, Priest pulls out a map, unrolling it onto the wooden table. He moves his finger across the paper.
priest		The pack headed in this direction. There's a reservation up that way so that's where I'll start.
aaron		if anyone finds out you're doing this --
aaron		And you' 11 bring her back to me. Something in Priest's face darkens. He doesn't answer, not able to look his brother in the eye.
clerk		Good afternoon, sir! How may I be of service?
priest		I need bullets.
clerk		How many?
priest		How many do you have? The clerk laughs... then realizes he's serious.
clerk		No offense, Father. You got a permit, right?
priest		I have this. He pulls out a sack of coins, it hits the counter with a solid THUD. The clerk smiles wider..
aaron		Maybe if I knew how to use these she'd still be alive.
priest		Sometimes things just happen. Fault's got nothing to do with it.
aaron		Funny. I'm the one who used to say that. You were the one who always said everything was God's will. Priest takes the bullet from him.
priest		I'm not so sure anymore. There's a KNOCK at the door. Aaron opens it slightly. It's Sheriff Hicks.
hicks		Aaron.
aaron		Sheriff.
hicks		You mind if I have a word-with your brother? An awkward BEAT as the two stare at each other. Both knowing what the other's thinking.
hicks		I'm sure you're well aware of the Vampire Protection Act.
priest		Why?
hicks		We're the only chance she's got. Priest picks a bullet from the table, a carefully notched CROSS now in its tip . He SNAPS it in the air.
phhhhtti		Hick's knife FLIES across the room, PINNING the bullet to the wall. A thin trickle of gun powder leaks from its casing, spilling to the floor. The kid's fast.
priest		How you with a gun?
hicks		Better than I am with a knife. Priest considers this.
priest		I'll be there. Nothing more needing to be said, Hicks turns to walk out, stops at the door.
hicks		What's with all the bullets anyway? I thought Priests don't use firearms.
priest		We don't.
priest		Our Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy Kingdom come Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven... As he continues THE CAMERA slowly moves OUT THE WINDOW and into the night, moving across HALBRIDGE.
aaron		You never talked much about the war but I know you saw things. Bad things.
priest		Yes.
aaron		What'd you do...to make yourself unsee `em? To make it stop playing in your head?
priest		I prayed.
aaron		Did it help? Priest doesn't answer, the question hanging overhead, a dark cloud.
hicks		Didn't mean to be late -- My deputies are a little green about keepin' the peace all by their lonesome. Needed a pep talk.
aaron		That's just his way. Don't pay it no mind.
hicks		The Nightshade Reservation.. Ain't nothin' but red-outs and rejects. They're a fallen tribe.
priest		Either way. We have two hours to get in and out.
hicks		What happens in two hours?
priest		Sundown. Hicks looks up at the sky. The sun tilting towards the horizon.
hicks		This is how most of the reservations are these days. We see faces peering out from wooden slats. Gaunt,: lifeless eyes. These'are FAMILIARS.
priest		Familiars are illegal.
hicks		Nobody really enforces it. most come from the fringes. Drifters. They're creepy as all hell -- but harmless. They turn off their bikes and dismout. Hicks stepping awkwardly between the chickens. A MALE FAMILIAR stands with a butcher knife over a basin. His gaze is slack -- More dead than alive. He picks up a chicken and CHOP1 off goes its head, blood draining into the container. His voice a hissing rasp.
familiar		Good afternoon, Sheriff... Father. What brings you to Nightshade?
hicks		We're looking for a Vamp Pack. They woulda' came through here a couple nights ago.
familiar		Nobody comes through Nightshade. That's the way we like it. Nice and quiet.
hicks		Then you won't mind if we have a look around? The Familiar picks up another chicken. Raises the butcher knife.
familiar		Not at all. CHOPI The head clatters to the ground.
priest		We're not going to find anything out here...We have to get into the crypts.
hicks		Not supposed: to do that without a warrant -- BAMI -- Priest kicks the door in. We hear the Familiar SCREECH as Priest steps inside --
crypt familiar		. Got Got You must got Master will be angry! Nicks is grimacing from the stench. He looks at Priest, not happy as he approaches a STONE SARCOPHAGUS. Running his hand over it.
priest		Where's the girl?
crypt familiar		PLEEASE please got
priest		No? Maybe your Master will know.
crypt familiar		NOt NOI THE MASTER CANNOT BE DISTURBEDI Priest rests his hand against the. atone slab covering.the tomb. It must weigh 200 pounds. He moves the slab. Just a centimeter -- but the Familiar screeches.
priest		Wh re is she?
priest		Your.Master'll be dead. He shoves the slab more, the light rays hanging just outside the edge. And now The Familiar begins to laugh, a horrible rattling sound. Something in his mood has shifted.
crypt familiar		No, i don't think so. Hearing a noise, Hicks turns, witnessing a horrible sight moving towards him
a familiar		Attacks, BUTCHER BLADE raised. CHOP! the blade buries itself in Hicks' arm!
hicks		Lets loose with a mean roundhouse. Plugging him in the chest. in one quick motion he rips the butcher blade from his arm, flinging it at the nearest
familiar		The blade lodges in his skull and he drops like a sack. These guys move surprisingly fast -- Hicks is already surrounded. He hears a whistling noise as
hicks		Pulls off his COWBOY HAT. Activating a release. With a CLICK! thousands- of needle--like teat ext e d fro the brim. With deadly accuracy, he flings the hat: It FLASHES through the air, DAIS'iWHEELING around a Familiar's neck, pinpricking his skin and finally whirling back to Hicks' band likean obedient pup. A BEAT as the Familiar stands, mouth agape. Then with a wet SNAP his head rolls off his shoulders, THUDDING in the dirt. Hicks falls to the ground, his wound starting to get the best of him. He musters up his strength for another hat attack but before he can --
priest		Leaps in front. Blocking his way.
priest		Not yet. With a HORRIBLE SCREECH the Familiars attack, LAUNCHING at Priest and Hicks. Blades in the air.
crypt familiar		It's our time now. We hear a LOW RUMBLE from inside the crypts. Priest looks at Hicks, a feeling of dark electricity in the air, anticipation.
priest		They get your gun arm?
hicks		Why?
priest		You're gonna need it.
black shapes		BURST from the crypt doorways SCREECHING as they fly into the air. Circling above the reservation like a nest of angry hornets. Disturbed. WHOOSH! One of the figures SWOOPS low, touching to the ground. Giving us our first good look at a vampire; Wet, white skin. Insect clicking claws. Black eyes. Fangs. More creature than human. The vampire cackles, sounds like dried paper, its voice a series of teeth clicking hisses. as it eyes Priest angrily.
lead vampire		What are you doing here,. Priest... haven't you already done enough?
priest		We don't want a fight. We're just looking for the girl. The vampire sneers and as it speaks the following -- one by one, the OTHERS drop from the sky, flanking him. They're scraggly, a little undernourished.
lead vampire		Look at us -- Living in ruin, forced to feed off the blood of animals. We once scoured 'this land. We were warriors...we were Gods!
priest		You were murderers.
lead vampire		We were what nature made us.  I recommend you leave immediately...You are not welcome here.
priest		We're not going anywhere until you tell us where she is.
lead vampire		Then you aren't going anywhere,. If there was a tumbleweed in the vicinity this is when it would blow by. A tense BEAT then. . .Priest pulls out a BLACK BOOK.
priest		,,Yea though r walk through the Valley Of The Shadow Of Death x will fear no Evil -- " The vampires laugh. Fangs glinting.
lead vampire		--'Your words mean nothing to us, Priest. And now we see the book's actually hollow on the inside, filled with dozens of .little STAR-METAL CROSSES.
the crosses		CUT through the air, heading straight for the BLACK FIGURE. S t SOUEAL.S as the metals; it like hot goals through 1 err tC erina it apart, the pieces raining' down around Hicks, crashing to the ground. And then all hell breaks loose. The Nightshade Vampires hiss. Bearing their fangs like cobras and taking to the air with a SHRIEK. Attacking. Frightened beyond shit-all-belief -- Hicks FIRES wildly, chasing the creatures with his gunfire. His bullets whistling harmlessly through the air. WHOOSH! A vampire swoops towards him, fangs bared, claws ready to rip.
hicks		Dazed, watches as the vampire's body erupts with death spasms, arms and legs kicking the air in a violent frenzy until finally all life drains away.
hicks		 Jesus. Another VAMPIRE careens towards him. Coming in low, crawling across the ground on all fours. Fangs dripping. Hicks FIRES off a mess of bullets, peppering the creature as it flails backwards screeching. He snaps out the empty shells, reloading almost supernaturally fast, firing off a shot that SPLITS the Vampire's throat. He twirls the gun, flipping it into his holster. This leaves only
priest		No need. He'll the at first light. Priest goes to the Familiars still lying on the ground. They're sobbing, having lost everything in the world that mattered. Completely wrecked. He grabs one by the scruff of the neck.
familiar		 -- The metal beast! She's in the metal beast!
priest		Make 'sense.
sharp claws		Suddenly RIP across Priest's back! It's the Lead Vampire, back for more. Claws digging into flesh. Priest wrenches around and the two go at it. A fierce, feral battle. The Vampire's fangs chattering inches from his neck. Their bodies lock in a horrible struggle, rolling across the Familiars. The Vampire's claws CHURNING into their bodies, killing them instantly.
the vampire		Throws Priest into a crypt, SMASHING him through the wall, flying in after him. We hear the sounds of a BATTLE ROYALE from inside. WHUMPI WHUMPI WHUMP! The walls buckle outward, sounds like the fury of all hell being unleashed. Then, suddenly, and'more disturbingly...,s  g. Hicks takes a step towards the crypt. Gun leveled. But --
priest		Emerges through the hole, exhausted, the LEAD VAMPIRE'S HEAD in his hand dangling by its hair. He tosses the head and it rolls to Hicks' feet, fangs flashing up at him. Hicks stares at the ghastly visage. Unnerved.
priest		How's your arm?
hicks		Lucky I guess. The blade didn't go that deep.  Don't know what got into those Familiars to attack like that. They're usually harmless. Priest finds a KNIPE clutched in a dead Familiar's hand, tucks it in his waistband.
priest		Usually. A BEAT as they listen to the popping of the fire. A tension hanging between them. Then -
hicks		You did this on purpose, didn't you? You knew we wouldn't. be out before sundown. You wanted this to happen.
priest		You don't have the stomach for it --head back to Haibridge right now. Hicks glares at Priest.
hicks		The stomach I got. I was in the Rangers two years. Even fought in the Boondock Uprising...I saw some crazy things.
priest		Killing a vampire isn't like killing a man. They come at'you like an animal. Tooth for tooth.
hicks		it comes easy to you... don't it?
priest		What?
hicks		Killin'.
priest		it just comes. Easy's got nothing to do with it. He pokes at the fire, it CRACKLES, feeding off the bodies. Something about the battle's opened him up. His guard's down.
priest		Give me your gun.
hicks		What?
priest		Give me your gun.
hicks		Why? You gonna shoot me now? Priest's stare is piercing. A pause then Hicks pulls his six shooter, handing it to him. Priest checks the chambers, giving it a quick spin.
priest		Don't anticipate the trajectory of your target. Know it. He stomps his foot into the fire, launching a GLOWING COAL OF ASH into the air. Priest quickly raises the gun and FIRES, the ash explodes, raining fiery red sparks.
hicks		You're teaching me to shoot?
priest		I'm teaching you to kill vampires. No more wild shots --
hicks		My ass I In case you didn't notice I was pretty damn good out there! And I sure as hell didn't see you doin' much when I had that blade buried in my arm.
priest		There's always-two points. A and B. Know the points and you'll know your target.
hicks		Ain't nothin' but a bunch of bullshit.
priest		I see ten crypts ...but only eight vampires. We find the missing, we'll find-Lucy.' What's the next nearest town?
hicks		Jericho. It's clear across the Plains. Gonna be a rough ride.
priest		Then you better get a good night's sleep. This bunch was easy, their bloodlines watered down by man.
familiar		A man came on board at the last stop. Says he has something for you. The Figure nods. We-FOLLOW as he continues to the back of --- the car, sliding open the door
black hat		I can SMELL the blood racing through your veins... Smells like dinner. The salesman starts to shake.
black hat		A Priest?
lucy		Lying on the floor, her face streaked with tears. Vestiges of the girl we met earlier already lost.
lucy		I won't tell anyone if you let me out...I promise.
black hat		You're in here for your own protection...If I let you out of this car you'll be torn apart a piece at a time. He walks to her, face still hidden in shadow. She starts to cry, pulling back to the wall. Angry.
lucy		My uncle's a Priestl one of the best. Hooll corns after youl The Figure laughs. Bending down to her level --
black hat		I'm absolutely counting on it. And now we get our first look at her captor. A cross tattoo h s adows his face. The mark of the Priest.
the plains		They sit parked on a bluff, the emptiness making Hick's eyes ache. A more desolate view couldn't be found in all of hell.
hicks		Walkin' Pete talked about this place -- said it. used to be really somethin'. Everythin' growin' green as a goddamn dollar bill. . 'Course we had to go and screw it up by poisonin' everythin' -- nothin' pretty survives this world ...nothin' decent anyways.
priest		How's your arm?
hicks		 Sore. Cut's still open. As Hicks hands the canteen back, Priest suddenly grabs his arm it's completely healed. Not even a scar.
priest		You're a halfbreed. A BEAT as Hicks looks to the ground, when he speaks, it's in a voice just below his breath.
hicks		My grandmother... she was raped. Nobody knows -- It's recessive in my family. No bloodthirst. No light sensitivity. I'm not proud... but it's a part of me. Ain't nothin' I can do.  I woulda told you...just didn't want you treatin' me no different. It hangs there. the'silence stretching like a rope,then Priest REVS his cycle; a flurry ofdust kicking up as he speeds away. HOLD ON HICKS -- Eyes stinging, he watches Priest. Finally he starts his bike, following.
hicks		Gotta be a desert rat. They park their bikes about twenty feet from the rickety structure, Hicks stepping off his bike and approaching. Carefully.
old man		Take another step and you'll be meetin' the Lord directly.
hicks		Easy now old timer. I'm a sheriff. The old man snorts, spitting a thick stream of tobacco,. it sizzles when it hits the dust.
old man		Ain't no law out here but my own. Calm and cool, Priest shifts in his seat, drawing his gaze.
old man		Cleaned the place up a bit. Been years since I had any kind of company 'sides jackrabbits but I knew you was comity' -- Dreams don't lie.' Ignoring Hicks, the old man pours BLACK TEA into a rusty can, handing it to Priest.
hicks		Sounds like a bunch of religious mumbo jumbo to me. The old man stares fixedly at Priest.
old man		Now you tell the Clergy this here is an authentic miracle, I want it registered. It's mine.
priest		Miracle?
old man		The Angels. Never seen so many loot souls, breaks my heart just to think of it. This ain't no place for nothin' divine. The man's fevered belief unsettles Priest, he's unsure how to respond.
priest		You saw angels?
old man		Sure as chit.
priest		How many?
old man		Don't know, too many to count. Hundreds. Thousands. Some nights the sky was so thick you couldn't see the stars. His eyes suddenly light up, remembering something. i OLD MAN  Here! Look at this -- He goes to a shelf, it's been turned into a MAKESHIFT SHRINE -- rw=ging through a jumbled collection of crucifixes, yellowed photographs, collected junk. He pulls out a GLASS JAR containing SOMETHING MISSHAPEN floating in murky water, the old man proudly showing it to Priest and Hicks.
hicks		What is it?
old man		It's their spoor! They'd be flyin' above and this stuff would drop from the sky like manna.
hicks		That's angel shit?
old man		Scooped it up myself.  You wanna hold it? Hicks backs away, shaking his head.
priest		These angels...di.d you ever see them during the day?
old man		No, I reckon'. that's when they'd go back home for some shut eye -- Gettin' the world ready for the rapture takes a lot of work. Praise God.
priest		Home?
old man		The castle - .:,He:points out the window, far away, atop a craggy peak sits the -remains of a CASTLE --
old man		Wait! I want you to have somethin' before you go He presses a HOMEMADE CROSS into Priest's hand. It's a real beauty, flecked with colored stones. A lot of love and care went into this one.
lucy		Thank you. The Familiar turns to leave. WHAPI Lucy SLAMS the tray over his head and he collapses to the floor. She makes a run for it. But the Familiar manages to grab her ankle.knocking her down, she kicks at him as he holds fast, hissing. Two more FAMILIARS run in and grab her arms, wrestling her to the floor. She struggles furiously but it's no use, she screams as we CUT TO:
priest		Vampires sometimes use abandoned structures as a perch.  Watch for booby traps. And with that he enters the--
hicks		Why we listen' to that crackpot? Crazy fucker's so blinded by faith he's batahit. That's called a zealot in my. book.
hicks		This is bullshit. Lucy's been gone five days'-- every stupid minute we waste here is a minute more she gets farther-away. Priest turns and sees a STONE STAIRCASE, uneven steps leading. downwards...too dark to tell where though.
priest		Stay here. If anything comes up the steps that isn't me -- Shoot it. Before Hicks can reply,.Priest heads down the stairs, darkness swallowing him with every step.
hicks		Great.
a catacomb		Actually more a cave. Miles and miles. Twisting, jagged and moist. Endless corners, weaving into a dark and hideous maze. Priest heads into it
two bodies		splayed across the ground like rag dolls. He crouches to take a closer look...
priestess		How did you find me? Priest doesn't reply. She narrows her eyes, suspicious.
priest		No.
priestess		I've been busy. Off Priest's reaction we CUT TO:
hicks		Shit. He wipes the blood on his pants, not noticing as a A LARGE SHAPE looms in the archway behind him...
priestess		If you didn't come for me...why are you here?
priest		I should be asking you the same question.
priestess		There's another one around here somewhere.
priest		Where?
priestess		I don't know...but it's not like the others. They're interrupted by the sound of GUNFIRE echoing off the tunnel walls. Priest turns.
priest		Hicks. He starts down the tunnel. The Priestess quickly following.
priest		It's too big to fit down here. That's why you're still alive.
hicks		What the hell is that thing?I
hicks		I'm not stupid. Vampires don't look like that.
hicks		Who the hell are you?! (7, She doesn't even bother to respond,.just shooting a look as the two warriors bound
the vampire		A fearsome creature -- much more terrifying than the Nightshade variety. Bigger, more ferocious. The ancient cousin to the more modern vampire. The beast opens its mouth and lets loose with a SCREAM, its breath vile.
the priests		Split up. The Priestess LEAPING to the stone wall and climbing up the rock. Priest goes the opposite way, ROLLING across the floor, keeping low.
the vampire		With a screech, goes for the Priestess. Crawling up the wall, hunched like a rat, talons ferociously . digging, into: rock. Coordinating an attack wordlessly, the Priests make their move:
the priestess		Lets go of the wall, PLUMMETING straight towards the vampire, the creature FLASHING its fangs in anticipation.
priest		Leaps from below, darting up the rock, taking advantage of the distraction, landing on the creature's back and wrapping his arms around its neck. Going for the deathlock. With a SHRIEK the creature WHIPS its head with crack force sending Priest flying. The Priestess, still in mid-drop, CATCHES him and they both hit the ground with their feet.
priestess		Should we lead it into open air? More room to. maneuver.
priest		Better to keep it contained. The vampire's lathered into an animal frenzy now, wailing and scuttling around the circular wall in crazy patterns. Suddenly -- with a stone shattering BOOM! it BURSTS through the hole, FLYING out into the night.
priestess		Or not. They race outside.
priest		Darts behind a boulder just in time. The creature's talons SCRAPING at the rock before it soars back to the sky, He pulls out his bible, grabbing and tossing a handful of --
throwing crosses		CUTTING through the air, sparkling in the moonlight, beautiful. BUT They BOUNCE harmlessly off the creature's wings, knifing back to the ground, imbedding deep in the stone, Priest having to nimbly: dodge his own weaponry. THE CREATURE HOWLS! Blazing straight for him. Undaunted. Priest looks at the Priestess and folds his hands into the prayer position, leveling his breath, pulse slowing as the screaming beast bares down like a freight train!
the priestess		Quickly scoops up TWO LARGE ROCKS -- HURTLING them towards the vampire. HER EYES LOCK WITH PRIEST'S as she too folds her hand, into the prayer position.
priestess		Not bad. Suddenly the CREATURE'S BODY erupts into ablistering death spasm! Talons clacking like STRAIGHT RAZORS, flailing dangerously close to the two of them.
bami		A single bullet. pierces its heart and the body collapses with a THUD. Once and for all -- dead. ANGLE ON HICKS in the archway, smoke coming off his gun. He looks at the Priests.
hicks		Point A...meet point fuckin' B. He smiles, twirling his six shooters back into their holsters.
priest		This was a Pureblood.
priestess		we both know that's impossible -- They haven't existed for a millennium.
priest		.I don't know. A BEAT filled with awkward silence -- when the Priestess kt speaks it comes as a relief for both. An unloosening of things long held tight.
priestess		Sector Seven was the only place I could find work. Waste Management.
priest		I heard that one too.
priestess		A week ago, a family camping out on the Perimeter approached me --.Told me vampires were terrorizing their village and that the government wouldn't do anything about it.
priest		Did you go to The Clergy?
priestess		They wouldn't see me,
priest		Could be. The Priestess glances towards Hicks.
priestess		Does the lawman know what you'll do if you find her?
priest		He knows.
priestess		He'll try to stop you.
priest		He won't be able to. She pauses a moment, regarding him.
priestess		You know, some nights I still dream we're back on the frontlines ... I wake up, I'm sweating... my muscles all clenched like I'm ready for something -- But I don't know what.
priest		Me too.
priestess		Nights like that ...I don't go back to sleep.
priest		..Like what?
priestess		You. Priest stares at her, not sure what to say. Lucky for him, the moment gets interrupted by --
hicks		 - Hey.you guys better get a look at thisl The warriors lock eyes, knowing something's been started -- but.unsure of what. They head down the stone steps.
priestess		it must be a birthmark of some kind.
hicks		That ain't no birthmark -- it's a brand. The Priestess studies the mark, something about it making her skin crawl. Maybe because it's in'theshape of a top hat.
priestess		There's something else you need to see...
priestess		I found this just before I was attacked -
priest		It's a tomb. Big enough for an army.
hicks		Guess they're not as endangered as everyone thought.
priest		Only one way to find out...
hicks		Are Priests allowed to, you know...have relations?
priestess		We take a vow of celibacy at inception. Hicks can't be sure -- did she just look at Priest when she said that?
hicks		Look...I was uh, wondering --. how did he do that little stunt back there?
priestess		All Priests can do it.
hicks		Including you? She nods.
priestess		No trick. You just have to remember.
hicks		Remember... what?
priestess		Time is relative.
huge chamber		Not like the cave, this is more earthen. Like the inside of a wasp nest, curved walls made of dirt and spit, Priest covering his nose and mouth as he's hit with a massive stench.
priest		You said the next nearest town was Jericho.
hicks		Yeah.
priest		Then we better go see.
hicks		. See what?
priestess		-- What they left of it. PUSH IN ON HICKS -- knots of rope tightening in his stomach... only now realizing how truly black the path before him will be.
railroad tracks		CLACK past at a furious speed, inches from his head! The noise is deafening..
ohb slips		Catching herself just in time. Her eyelids practically brushing the wood. Taking a deep breath, she manages to hoist herself through the rest of the way finally making it to the CABOOSE. She pulls herself up onto the back of the car. Now what? The train is blazing past the wasteland at an incredible speed. Only one thing to do. She makes the sign of the cross, closes her eyes and JUMPS
priest		We separate. Go through each building, see what we find.
hicks		I'll start with the sheriff.
priestess		Be careful. Just because it's daylight doesn't mean it's safe. Hicks nods, tightening the twin BANDOLEERS across his chest.
hicks		'Damn. He shakes his head, heading towards the holding area as --
hicks		There ain't nobody left. Nobody.
hicks		Where's Priest?
priest		On the ground KNEELING. Head down, engaging in some kind of prayer. THE CAMERA FOLLOWS as they slowly approach, wondering what the hell is going on. As they get closer they see the full
faces		They're Priests.
hicks		Don't make no sense. What were they doin' out here?
priestess		The same thing as us.
hicks		Who? The Priests just stare into the fire, not having any idea.
priest		We're not going back.
priestess		We'll burn for this.
priest		 We already are. Something in the flames catches the Priestess's eye, in the charred remains of one of the corpses -- SOMETHING'S GLOWING. She wraps her arm, plunging her hand through the bones, pulling out the object. Quickly, she tosses it into a'barrel of water. it hisses, steam rising as it cools. Priest reaches into the barrel, his hand emerging with a
hicks		It's a railroad spike. My pop used to work boxcars before they shut down -- Why the hell would anyone wanna swallow that? A beat as Priest puts it together.
priest		He wanted us to find it. It's a clue.
priestess		Where's the closest track?
hicks		The Dunkirk Line. It starts all the way in the backcountry, bought the ore from the deep mines. There were about five stops along the route. I think. He draws several Xs along the line. His hand coming to a stop on a particular forboding PATCH OF MOUNTAINS.
priest		Where? He draws one final X at the end of the line. Looks up.
hicks		The Cities. So there it is. The Priestess narrows her eyes.
priestess		They must have been picking up different factions along the way. Moving during the day, feeding at night.
hicks		But headin' to the Cities is suicide. The sun will kill `em -- there's nowhere to hide. Priest gazes at the map, deeply troubled.
priest		They won't have to. And with the SHRIEK of the train whistle we CUT TO:
the camera		Overtakes the train. Snaking along the rail at an incredible speed, leaving the train in its tracks  as it blisters across the Wasteland through craggy mountains and finally ending up in
dark figemh		A fine catch yes? (the voice is oily, a dark
black hat		What do you want for her? And now her captor lifts his hat -- revealing paper-thin skin, eyes like black coal. This is RUNE, a bounty hunter.
rune		You know what r want. Black Hat's eyes flick upwards, glinting in the. candlelight.
black hat		Don't. go too far, Rune.
rune		He comes for her still.
black hat		Of course he does.
rune		Let me have him.
black hat		No. Rune smiles,'revealing an impressive set of vampire fangs.
black hat		Don't get involved in this.
rune		I was involved long before you showed up.
black hat		Fine. He's Yours. As if on command, the finger retreats back into the jacket, Lucy COLLAPSING to the floor coughing and choking.
rune		And -- she's yours. He laughs, sounds like a death rattle, dropping the cigar to the floor, spurs chiming as he walks out the car door, long dark coat fluttering behind him, disappearing into the night.
black hat		Annoyed, picks up the still burning cigar, squeezing it in his hand. He turns to Lucy.
black hat		And as for you uy dear...You're more trouble than I anticipated. Must be your uncle's blood in you.
hicks		Beggar's Pass...it ain't gonna be easy. As if on cue the last rays of the sun wink out behind the mountain.
hicks		If we push it hard we'll gain two days on 'em. Should be enough to get us a jump.
priestess		We'need more than a jump. We need a miracle.
hicks		That's the funny thing about time -- He dips his hand in the water and raises it, letting the liquid leak from between his fingers.
priestess		You should try harder, sheriff. She cups her hand in the water, bringing it to her lips for a drink. Hicks smiles, leaning forward, something on his mind.
hicks		You ever regret it? Bein' a Priest?
priestess		No.
hicks		What about a husband, children...A family?
priestess		I've had a family -- just not the kind you're familiar with.
hicks		What? You mean Mr. Laffs over there?
priestess		He's not so bad once you get to know him. A beat, Hick's expression becoming serious.
hicks		He's going to kill her, isn't he? If. she's turned.
priestess		Yes.
hicks		There's things that can be done. She doesn't have to die.
priestess		She's his bloodline... and he's a Priest. It's the only way. Hicks tosses the rest of his food into the fire, troubled, but he knows there's no point in discussing it any further... for now.
hicks		And how many of you Priests are left now? A long moment before she speaks.
priestess		Two. Hicks doesn't know what to Say-,,
hicks		.I'm sorry.,
priestess		Yes. She nods, though in affirmation of what Hicks's isn't sure. He watches her as she stares'into the fire. We FADE TO BLACK:
priestess		They know we're here. From under the earth A HAND SHOOTS UP, grabbing onto a Priest's leg, pulling him down. Suddenly DOZENS OF VAMPIRES emerge, seemingly birthed from the soil. The warriors fight valiantly. Fiercely. But it's too much. Most are quickly cut down.
priest		Retreat!
fearsome priest		Battles like a tiger, grappling with TWo VAMPIRES, their claws at his throat, fangs inches from his face. A couple of quick moves and - before you realize how - the vanires lay dead. He quickly joins the surviving Priests as they run through the hive, a dizzying maze of MUDDY TUNNELS AND TRENCHES.
priestess		Why would the Clergy forbid us from seeing each other?
priest		Maybe they were scared of what we could do.
priestess		Or what we would do.
priest		With or without the Clergy...we're still Priests. And we're the only ones who can stop that train.
priestess		If we survive this we need to expose them for what they are.
priestess		You scared to die?_
priest		No.
priestess		I believed in Heaven my whole life. Believed everything we were taught -- And now...when it's finally my time...no more faith. They took it away from me. Priest gazes at her, trying his best to be comforting.
priest		Whatever happens. .. Wherever it is we go. We'll go together. At that.exact moment something inside Priest shifts just a little bit, a door opens -- never to be shut again.
priestess		What?
priest		It's a riddle. The Priestess thinks about it.
priestess		The good nights.
priest		Yes. The good nights. Do you think maybe tonight...
priestess		Could be one of those nights? She smiles. And then Priest does the most amazing thing. . .he smiles back. Things happen fast -- He finds himself planting his mouth on hers... the years of conditioning, all the ritual and tradition falling away in a flash. And it is here, together in this place, where they feel like they finally truly belong. The last two.
hicks		I- ee itl Hicks points, reaching the top of the mountain.
priest		I know you're there. A slight sound, the mist whipping into a pool as if something just moved through it. Priest quickly turns but there's nothing there.
priest		This isn't the time to settle old scores, Rune.
priest		I'm older now. We can almost bear Rune smile.
priest		It was a war, Rune.
rune		It still is He launches at Priest, duster fluttering like wings. The two grapple, Rune's fangs brushing Priest's neck. It's a savage battle, Priest's muscles and laser-like focus the only thing keeping him alive as Rune flies back across the canyon, landing against the rock wall like.a spider. Hunched, ready to strike BUT --
the priestess		Appears from within the mist, already in mid-leap, she lands beside Priest. The two together, a formidable presence. But Rune's a tough customer, he readies himself for another attack. ough h2 mist a single CLICKING sound. Rune looks over, sees --
hicks		Six-shooter pointed right at him.
rune's body		Drops from the fog, hitting the ground with a thud. Dead. And now Hicks turns -- points his revolver at Priest. Catching both he and the Priestess by surprise.
hicks		Tell me you won't kill her. Priest doesn't reply.
priest		Finally showing your true colors. A beat. The Priestess looks at Hicks.
priestess		What's he talking about?
priest		He's a halfbreed. Hicks cocks the gun.
hicks		Don't turn this into somethin' it's not.
priest		You've been itching to do this since Nightshade.
hicks		She's your kin, goddamit!
priest		if she's turned...she's nobody's kin.
hicks		Things can be done. Things to lessen the thirst. She can have a normal life, she doesn't have to die. Priest nods grimly.
priest		It's our way.
hicks		And what is that? Some special Priest code of honor? You don't get it. Your "way' -- It's over!
priest		Shoot me and it won't matter if you find Lucy. You won't stop that train -- and you won't save her. The Priestess steps between them, looks at Hicks.
priestess		He's right. We need to be together on this... it's the only shot we have. Hicks thinks about it, knows she's right. A tense beat then
hicks		This ain't done. He lowers his gun and walks away. The two warriors stand together, the Priestess gazing at Priest...hedoesn't return it. Without a word, he heads back to his cycle. She doesn't see as his hand touches his stomach. It comes up red.
salt flats		wheels kicking up sheets of sand and grit, spattering their faces. The train dead in their sites.
priest		Make sure you get on that train,
priest		is thrown! His beloved bike FLIPPING across the desert in wild arcs. He hits the earth with a painful skid, using the momentum to roll back onto his feet. He checks his stomach, the wound's of enina t,}g xnorA, staining his shirt bright red. No time for first aid as he turns just in time to see
two riders		Throwing a STEEL CHAIN to the other, pulling the line taut, ready to take him out. Approaching fast.
priest		Snaps the chain above his head, bullwhip style, LASHING out. The sound of metal shredding as it tangles in Rider #1's handlebars, the bike SWEEPING into the other, CRASHING in a tangled mess. With a SNARL the fallen riders LAUNCH at Priest. These vampires are different than the Nightshade tribe. Stronger, quicker. Squat bodies of clenched muscles and fangs.
priest		Rips the BLAST HELMETS off his two attackers. With a SCREECH, their faces burn, bodies instantly SLACKENING in the harsh sun. Priest CRUNCHES a vampire in the ribs, knocking the creature off his bike. In a flash, he FLINGS.a helmet into the housing of the last cycle, the bike nosedives, sending the rider across the desert. Eyes brimming with renewed fury, Priest picks up the cycle, VROOOOMI! GUNNING the throttle, mod. ROCKETING towards the train...
priestess		 You ready? Hicks nods, maneuvering to the side of his bike and jumping to the Priestess's, his cycle crashing into the dirt as he LEAPS onto the back of the train.
hicks		My.tuxn now, Priest. BAMI He kicks the door in
priest		Seemingly from out of nowhere, motors up to the train car riding the vampire cycle. He grabs onto a gun barrel and SWINGS into an arc, lifting himself off the bike and -
black hat		"And the third day He shall rise again. Priest can't believe it, seeing his long dead comrade, his face etched with shock, all he can do is ask --
priest		.How? Black Hat smiles, baring hi fangs.
black hat		Oh ye of little faith. The understanding hits Priest immediately, crashing over him like a wave.
priest		.They turned you.
black hat		No, Priest...I turned them. He smiles wider as we CROSSCUT TO:
black hat		Lost souls abandoned by divinity. No belief, no voice to guide them through the wilderness. Sound familiar? Priest doesn't reply, warily eyeing him.
priest		By murdering innocents?
black hat		By drawing a once great race back to their"nature. By helping them discover' the mastery within themselves.
priest		who?
black hat		Me. Something in the distance catches Priest's eye, a BLACK SPEC on the horizon -- It's The Cities. His jaw tightens, he knows there isn't much time.
priest		So this is how you go about it? One by one killing every last remaining Priest?
black hat		It was the only way. The Cities are defenseless now...no one left to stop us from entering our Eden. But I was kind -- I gave every last one the choice I never had.
priest		Yours.
black hat		They taught us God created man in His image. . .but they lied. Man created God in a image -- And so, like man, God is weak. Corrupt. Merciless. He wipes away a streak of blood from his cheek.
priest		I don't believe you.
black hat		Your faith has failed you Priest.
priest		With ferocious instinct, he launches forward, feet digging into the metal. The two bodies COLLIDE w th Mic impact. Rolling across the roof, bodies twisting to the edge before FLIPPING onto the next car. The warriors rise, locked in a furious coil.as WHOOSHI train car after train car passes beneath them. Each leaping at j ust the right moment to land onto the next. But Priest is,outmatched. As they hit the final car, Priest flies across the roof catching the edge with his hand just before he goes over, his body dangling over the side. Exhausted and bloodied.
black hat		Your problem is you keep looking to God for-your power -- But I know the real truth.
massive pistons		Pump up and down furiously, moving so fast they blur, turning the-giant DRIVE WHEELS that power the locomotive. ANGRY BLASTS OF STEAM vent whi te hot from between the wheels, just missing the Priestess. She reaches into her pack and lugs out a CROWBAR, pulling up to the beast and managing to stick it between the pistons hoping to jam up the works. The machine chews it up like candy.
hicks		Shit. With a WAIL, the vampires quickly scramble from their coffins, sharp talons scratching at the wood, snapping the planks. Desperate, he wrenches open the door, darting into --
hicks turns		The WILD-EYED FAMILIAR charges, attacking from behind, having unlocked the chain and opened the door. He SCREAMS, sinking a KNIFE in Hicks' side! Hicks spins, slamming his attacker in the nose with a palm heel strike, knocking the Familiar out instantly. Hicks pulls the knife out, blood flowering across his shirt as the vampires continue to PUMMEL the door behind, him. He trips over the chain and staggers into --
hicks		'Dam. He site on the floor, breathing hard, knowing this is as far as he goes. Gradually another sound becomes audible. Hicks listens, nervous. He holds his breath straining to hear. It's someone else's BREATHING.
hicks		Lucy, my name is Sheriff Hicks...I'm here to take you home. No response. She seems almost catatonic. He reaches into his pocket, pulling out her photograph, showing it to her.
a talon		Reaches through the opening, long bony fingers swiping at Hicks like switchblades as he falls backwards, pain shooting up his body. ANOTHER ARM breaks through the small window, clawing at the air, the door BANGING REPEATEDLY against the chain. Hicks places himself between Lucy and the door, not noticing as she eyes the blood soaking through his shirt.
one vampire		Manages to scramble through, it charges at Hicks, fangs glistening. BAMI With a twitch, it collapses in a heap, a well placed bullet between the eyes.
hicks		Lucy? WHAM! A WOODEN. PLANK slams him over the head, knocking the gun from his hand. Woozy, he spins around to find Lucy standing over him, holding the plank above her head. He scoots back just as WHAM! the plank comes back down again, splintering apart across the floor.
a fist		PUNCHES through a BOARDED UP HOLE in the floor , wood splintering into tiny shards. Hicks takes advantage of the distraction and SLUGS Lucy, knocking her unconscious. He dives for his gun, scooping it up and leveling it at the hole, ready to fire at whatever's coming through...
it's priest		He sticks his head through the opening, having been drawn by the sound of gunfire. Hicks can't believe it.
priest		 Give her to me! Hurry!
a vampire		Jabs its head through the hole, teeth chattering-- but the creature can't go any further, the sunlight already making its skin smoke. On his back, Hicks worms his way down,. following Priest.as they climb up a LADDER attached to the side of the train.
hicks		We should jump!
priest		Not until we stop the trains But now Hicks isn't even looking at him, his attention caught up in the horrible sight waiting ahead of them.
on priest		Horrified, realizing what she's going to do...and powerless to stop her.
priest		What happens next happens fast: Priest GRABS Hicks, folding his body around both he and Lucy, hands coming together in prayer, feet leaving the train as -- E ERYTH ggas BLACK The sound of a heartbeat.A threshold. A zone of transition. A BRIGHT FLASH -- we see the TRAIN collide with the. Priestess. The massive grill of the engine CRUMPLING AROUND HER as if smashing into a building. She doesn't move. A BRIGHT FLASH -- one by one the train cars SLAM into each other, the cars JUMPING the rails. MMMM gQES BLACK A BRIGHT FLASH -- and now Priest is falling through the air, his body shielding Hicks and Lucy, train care skipping across the earth, careening through the air.
priest		He stands, bruised and bloody, staring at the sky. Watching. A dazed Hicks beside him, Lucy in his arms as she comes to. A HORRENDOUS SCREECH fills the air. Led by the Purebloods, HUNDREDS OF VAMPIRES fly out from within the broken cars, taking to the sky in a massive black swarm, tangling together in flowing shapes. Beautiful. Terrifying. Then in one horrible instant -- They TURN as if guided by an unseen hand, flying towards the Cities. Sensing the blood that awaits.
priest		No, they're not.
the sun		PUNCHES through the teeming mass. A few rays at first, but then more and more,-cracking through the black tide like shattered glass. Hicks' eyes, widen, witnessing an amazing eight as the vampires' bodies collectively BLACKEN and SHRIVEL the swarm withering... quickly becoming nothing more than husks. Floating black kites. Hicks and Priest stand, surrounded by the epic destruction, fire and smoke casting everything in a surreal haze.
hicks		You knew they wouldn't make it. A long time before Priest answers.
priest		She knew. He turns to THE ENGINE -- its grinning teeth grill CAVED IN as if smashed by the very hand of God.
the priestess		Lies before it. Somehow not a scratch on her...But something's wrong -- something inside her broken, something elemental. She doesn't have much time. Priest kneels beside her, taking her hand. Trying to be strong for her.
priest		"You shall wash me and I shall be made whiter than snow. Glory be to the Father and to the Son and to the Holy Spirit... The words are heavy, each harder than the next.
priest		sees him but chooses to stay with the Priestess, brushing the hair from her face.
priestess		I wish we could've had more time.
priest		.Me too. She reaches up, placing her hand on his chest.
priestess		Wherever it is we go -- we go together, right? She smiles weakly... but Priest can see she's scared. He gives her one last kiss, cradling her body, sand circling them as she draws her final breath.
hicks		When you're finished -- You know where to find me. A tense beat then Priest GUNS the engine. Hicks and Lucy watching as he blazes towards the Cities, the sky above the color of hellfire.
priest		Slowly makes his way down the aisle, bruised and bloodied, his very presence a direct affront to this place. A woman GASPS, somebody faints.
orelas		Ecces Agnes Dei, ecces qui tollit peccata mundi.
black hat		I'm afraid you're too late, Priest.
the monsignors		Shed their robes, revealing fresh BITE MARKS on their necks. Orelas' new-found fangs glint in the candlelight.
orelas		And why shouldn't we live forever?
priest		Stands shell shocked, the level of betrayal staggering.
priest		Sends him sailing through the air, Black Hat crashing into a collection of CANDLE HOLDERS, an ancient TAPESTRY catching fire, flames quickly spreading to the other fabrics -- The chamber erupting in an orange blaze!
black hat		With them I can start anew! You can't stop it --
priest		WRENCHES himself from,Black Hat's grip, tumbling. across the floor. WHAPI The cross S LM onto Black Hat, pulverizing hi !
koeppen		Am I next? Priest approaches -- Koeppen closing his eyes, ready for the blow he knows is to come. But Priest only lifts the man's head, studying his neck. He's clean. And without a single word -- Priest just walks away. When Koeppen opens his eyes, he's a new man -- a man absolved. With renewed energy, he looks to the crowd around him. And for the first moment in a long time ...He believes.
hicks		Leans against the backwall watching. Lucy glances his way... then shyly looks away.
aaron		I can't thank you enough for what you've done, sheriff.
hicks		Just make sure she keeps on the tea. It's a special brew -- lessens the bloodthirst...something my granddad taught me. Aaron nods hopefully, squeezing his. daughter's hand.
a figure		Stands astride a motorcycle, shadowed in the moonlight.
hicks		It doesn't have to be like this. Priest just stands, staring. Hick's hand curls around the revolver. Priest looks to the cabin, the challenge hanging in the air
then		He steps from the bike, advancing towards Hicks. Hicks pulls his gun, leveling it. Priest keeps coming, the wind blowing harder as he approaches. A feeling of inevitability. Hicks stands his ground, cocking his gun.
priest		Stares into his eyes and -- Something passes between them something so strong and personal it transcends emotion. Hicks FIRES! But Priest is pone. Hicks looks around -- There's no sign of him, not even the bike.
shit		He RACES back to the cabin...
aaron		All done.
hicks		Nothing to worry about, just a coyote. Aaron smiles, happy enough to be with Lucy.
aaron		Well ...we're all God's creatures. Hicks turns, ready to leave, but something on the table catches his eye
****Dialogues from script :Princess_Bride.txt****

1987-shooting draft		---------------------------------------------------------------------------
mother		You feeling any better?
the kid		A little bit.
mother		Guess what.
the kid		What?
mother		Your grandfather's here.
the kid		 Mom, can't you tell him that I'm sick?
mother		You are sick, that's why he's here.
the kid		He'll pinch my cheek. I hate that.
mother		Maybe he won't.
grandfather		Hey! How's the sickie? Heh?
mother		I think I'll leave you two pals.
grandfather		I brought you a special present.
the kid		What is it?
grandfather		Open it up.
the kid		A book?
grandfather		That's right. When I was your age, television was called books. And this is a special book. It was the book my father used to read to me when I was sick, and I used to read it to your father. And today, I'm gonna read it to you.
the kid		Has it got any sports in it?
grandfather		Are you kidding? Fencing. Fighting. Torture. Revenge. Giants. Monsters. Chases. Escapes. True love. Miracles.
the kid		 It doesn't sound too bad. I'll try and stay awake.
grandfather		Oh. Well, thank you very much. It's very nice of you. Your vote of confidence is overwhelming. All right.  The Princess Bride, by S. Morgenstern. Chapter One. Buttercup was raised on a small farm in the country of Florin.
grandfather		 Isn't that a wonderful beginning?
the kid		 Yeah. It's really good.
grandfather		 Nothing gave Buttercup as much pleasure as ordering Westley around.
buttercup		Farm boy. Polish my horse's saddle. I want to see my face shining in it by morning.
westley		 As you wish.
grandfather		 "As you wish" was all he ever said to her.
buttercup		Farm Boy. Fill these with water --  --please.
westley		As you wish.
grandfather		 That day, she was amazed to discover that when he was saying, "As you wish," what he meant was, "I love you."
grandfather		 And even more amazing was the day she realized she truly loved him back.
buttercup		 Farm Boy, fetch me that pitcher.
westley		As you wish.
the kid		 -hold it, hold it-
the kid		What is this? Are you trying to trick me? -- Where's the sports? -- Is this a kissing book?
grandfather		-- wait, just wait --
the kid		-- well, when does it get good?
grandfather		Keep your shirt on. Let me read.  Westley had no money for marriage. So he packed his few belongings and left the farm to seek his fortune across the sea.
grandfather		 It was a very emotional time for Buttercup --
the kid		 I don't be-leeve this.
buttercup		I fear I'll never see you again.
westley		Of course you will.
buttercup		But what if something happens to you?
westley		Hear this now: I will come for you.
buttercup		But how can you be sure?
westley		This is true love. You think this happens every day?
grandfather		 Westley didn't reach his destination. His ship was attacked by the Dread Pirate Roberts, who never left captives alive. When Buttercup got the news that Westley was murdered --
the kid		 -- murdered by pirates is good --
grandfather		 She went into her room and shut the door. And for days, she neither slept nor ate.
buttercup		 I will never love again.
grandfather		 Five years later, the main square of Florin City was filled as never before to hear the announcement of the great Prince Humperdinck's bride-to be.
humperdinck		 -- but perhaps you will not find her common now. Would you like to meet her?
humperdinck		My people ... the Princess Buttercup!!
grandfather		 Buttercup's emptiness consumed her. Although the law of the land gave Humperdinck the right to choose his bride, she did not love him.
grandfather		 Despite Humperdinck's reassurance that she would grow to love him, the only joy she found was in her daily ride.
voice		A word, my lady?
vizzini		We are but poor, lost circus performers. Is there a village nearby?
buttercup		There is nothing nearby; not for miles.
vizzini		Then there will be no one to hear you scream-
inigo		What is that you're ripping?
vizzini		 It's fabric from the uniform of an Army officer of Guilder.
fezzik		Who's Guilder?
vizzini		 Go!
vizzini		Once the horse reaches the castle, the fabric will make the Prince suspect the Guilderians have abducted his love. When he finds her body dead on the Guilder frontier, his suspicions will be totally confirmed.
fezzik		You never said anything about killing anyone.
vizzini		I've hired you to help me start a war. That's a prestigious line of work with a long and glorious tradition.
fezzik		I just don't think it's right, killing an innocent girl.
vizzini		 Am I going mad or did the word "think" escape your lips? You were not hired for your brains, you hippopotamic land mass.
inigo		I agree with Fezzik.
vizzini		 And remember this -- never forget this --
vizzini		 -- and you -- friendless, brainless, helpless, hopeless -- Do you want me to send you back to where you were, unemployed in Greenland?
fezzik		 I think he likes to scream at us.
inigo		Probably he means no harm.
fezzik		He's really very short on charm.
inigo		 Oh, you've a great gift for rhyme.
fezzik		Yes, some of the time. 
vizzini		 Enough of that.
inigo		FEZZIK, are there rocks ahead?
fezzik		If there are, we'll all be dead.
vizzini		No more rhymes now, I mean it.
fezzik		Anybody want a peanut?
vizzini		 We'll reach the Cliffs by dawn.
vizzini		Why are you doing that?
inigo		Making sure nobody's following us.
vizzini		That would be inconceivable.
buttercup		Despite what you think, you will be caught. And when you are, the Prince will see you all hanged.
vizzini		Of all the necks on this boat, Highness, the one you should be worrying about is your own.
vizzini		Stop doing that. We can all relax, it's almost over-
inigo		You're sure nobody's following us?
vizzini		As I told you, it would be absolutely, totally, and in all other ways, inconceivable. No one in Guilder knows what we've done. And no one in Florin could have gotten here so fast. Out of curiosity, why do you ask?
inigo		No reason. It's only, I just happened to look behind us, and something is there.
vizzini		What?
vizzini		 Probably some local fisherman out for a pleasure cruise at night through eel-infested waters.
vizzini		Go in, get after her!
inigo		I don't swim.
fezzik		 I only dog paddle.
vizzini		Veer left. Left. Left!
vizzini		Do you know what that sound is, Highness? Those are the Shrieking Eels -- if you doubt me, just wait. They always grow louder when they're about to feed on human flesh.
vizzini		If you swim back now, I promise, no harm will come to you. I doubt you will get such an offer from the Eels.
grandfather		 She doesn't get eaten by the Eels at this time.
the kid		What?
grandfather		The Eel doesn't get her. I'm explaining to you because you looked nervous.
the kid		Well, I wasn't nervous.
the kid		Well, maybe I was a little bit concerned. But that's not the same thing.
grandfather		Because I can stop now if you want.
the kid		No. You could read a little bit more ... if you want.
grandfather		 "Do you know what that sound is, Highness?"
vizzini		Those are the Shrieking Eels.
the kid		 We're past that, Grandpa.
the kid		You read it already.
grandfather		Oh. Oh my goodness, I did. I'm sorry. Beg your pardon.
grandfather		 All right, all right, let's see. Uh, she was in the water, the Eel was coming after her. She was frightened. The Eel started to charge her. And then -
vizzini		Put her down. Just put her down.
inigo		I think he's getting closer.
vizzini		He's no concern of ours. Sail on!  I suppose you think you're brave, don't you?
buttercup		 Only compared to some.
inigo		Look! He's right on top of us. I wonder if he is using the same wind we are using.
vizzini		Whoever he is, he's too late --  The Cliffs of Insanity.
vizzini		Hurry up. Move the thing! Um ... that other thing. Move it!  We're safe -- only FEZZIK is strong enough to go up our way -- he'll have to sail around for hours 'til he finds a harbor.
inigo		 He's climbing the rope. And he's gaining on us.
vizzini		Inconceivable!
vizzini		 Faster!
fezzik		I thought I was going faster.
vizzini		You were supposed to be this colossus. You were this great, legendary thing. And yet he gains.
fezzik		Well, I'm carrying three people. And he's got only himself.
vizzini		 I'm just going to have to find myself a new giant, that's all.
fezzik		 Don't say that, Vizzini. Please.
vizzini		Did I make it clear that your job is at stake?
fezzik		 He has very good arms.
vizzini		He didn't fall? Inconceivable!!
inigo		 My God! He's climbing.
vizzini		Whoever he is, he's obviously seen us with the Princess, and must therefore die.  We'll head straight for the Guilder frontier. Catch up when he's dead. If he falls, fine. If not, the sword.
inigo		I want to duel him left-handed.
vizzini		You know what a hurry we're in.
inigo		Well, it's the only way I can be satisfied. If I use my right -- tch -- over too quickly.
vizzini		 Oh, have it your way.
fezzik		You be careful.  -- people in masks cannot be trusted.
vizzini		 I'm waiting!
inigo		 Hello there.
inigo		Slow going?
inigo		Sorry.
inigo		I do not suppose you could speed things up?
inigo		I could do that. In fact, I've got some rope up here. But I do not think that you will accept my help, since I am only waiting around to kill you.
inigo		But I promise I will not kill you until you reach the top.
inigo		I hate waiting. I could give you my word as a Spaniard.
inigo		You don't know any way you'll trust me?
inigo		I swear on the soul of my father, Domingo Montoya, you will reach the top alive.
inigo		We'll wait until you're ready.
inigo		I do not mean to pry, but you don't by any chance happen to have six fingers on your right hand?
inigo		My father was slaughtered by a sixfingered man. He was a great swordmaker, my father. And when the six-fingered man appeared and requested a special sword, my father took the job. He slaved a year before he was done.
inigo		The six-fingered man returned and demanded it, but at one-tenth his promised price. My father refused. Without a word, the six-fingered man slashed him through the heart. I loved my father, so, naturally, challenged his murderer to a duel ... I failed ... 
inigo		I was eleven years old. When I was strong enough, I dedicated my life to the study of fencing. So the next time we meet, I will not fail. I will go up to the sixfingered man and say, "Hello, my name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die."
inigo		More pursuit than study lately. You see, I cannot find him. It's been twenty years now. I am starting to lose confidence. I just work for Vizzini to pay the bills. There's not a lot of money in revenge.
inigo		You are ready, then?
inigo		You seem a decent fellow. I hate to kill you.
inigo		Begin!
inigo		 You're using Bonetti's defense against me, ah?
inigo		Naturally, you must expect me to attack with Capo Ferro.
inigo		Unless the enemy has studied his Agrippa-
inigo		-- which I have.
inigo		 You are wonderful!
inigo		I admit it -- you are better than I am.
inigo		Because I know something you don't know.
inigo		I am not left-handed.
inigo		I ought to be after twenty years.
inigo		Tell me.
inigo		Who are you?!
inigo		I must know.
inigo		Okay.
inigo		Kill me quickly.
vizzini		Inconceivable!
vizzini		Give her to me.  Catch up with us quickly.
fezzik		 What do I do?
vizzini		Finish him, finish him. Your way.
fezzik		Oh, good, my way. Thank you, Vizzini.  Which way is my way?
vizzini		Pick up one of those rocks, get behind the boulder, and in a few minutes, the Man in Black will come running around the bend. The minute his head is in view, hit it with the rock!
fezzik		 My way's not very sportsmanlike.
fezzik		I did that on purpose. I don't have to miss.
fezzik		We face each other as God intended. Sportsmanlike. No tricks, no weapons, skill against skill alone.
fezzik		 I could kill you now.
fezzik		It's not my fault being the biggest and the strongest. I don't even exercise.
fezzik		I just want you to feel you're doing well. I hate for people to die embarrassed.
fezzik		You're quick.
fezzik		 Why do you wear a mask? Were you burned by acid, or something like that?
fezzik		 I just figured out why you give me so much trouble.
fezzik		 Well, I haven't fought just one person for so long. I've been specializing in groups. Battling gangs for local charities, that kind of thing.
fezzik		Well ...  ... you see, you use different moves when you're fighting half a dozen people than when you only have to be worried about one.
humperdinck		There was a mighty duel -- it ranged all over. They were both masters.
rugen		Who won? How did it end?
humperdinck		 The winner followed those footprints toward Guilder!
rugen		Shall we track them both?
humperdinck		The loser is nothing. -- Only the Princess matters --  -- clearly this was all planned by warriors of Guilder. We must be ready for whatever lies ahead.
rugen		Could this be a trap?
humperdinck		 I always think everything could be a trap -- Which is why I'm still alive.
vizzini		So, it is down to you. And it is down to me.
vizzini		If you wish her dead, by all means keep moving forward.
vizzini		-- there's nothing to explain. You're trying to kidnap what I've rightfully stolen.
vizzini		There will be no arrangement --  -- and you're killing her!
vizzini		I'm afraid so -- I can't compete with you physically. And you're no match for my brains.
vizzini		Let me put it this way: have you ever heard of Plato, Aristotle, Socrates?
vizzini		Morons.
vizzini		For the Princess?
vizzini		To the death?
vizzini		I accept.
vizzini		 I smell nothing.
vizzini		Hmm.
vizzini		But it's so simple. All I have to do is divine from what I know of you. Are you the sort of man who would put the poison into his own goblet, or his enemy's?
vizzini		Now, a clever man would put the poison into his own goblet, because he would know that only a great fool would reach for what he was given. I'm not a great fool, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But you must have known I was not a great fool; you would have counted on it, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.
vizzini		Not remotely. Because iocane comes from Australia, as everyone knows. And Australia is entirely peopled with criminals. And criminals are used to having people not trust them, as you are not trusted by me. So I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you.
vizzini		Wait till I get going! Where was I?
vizzini		Yes -- Australia, and you must have suspected I would have known the powder's origin, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.
vizzini		 You've beaten my giant, which means you're exceptionally strong. So, you could have put the poison in your own goblet, trusting on your strength to save you. So I can clearly not choose the wine in front of you. But, you've also bested my Spaniard which means you must have studied. And in studying, you must have learned that man is mortal so you would have put the poison as far from yourself as possible, so I can clearly not choose the wine in front of me.
vizzini		 It has worked -- you've given everything away -- I know where the poison is.
vizzini		I will. And I choose --
vizzini		-- what in the world can that be?
vizzini		Oh, well, I-I could have sworn I saw something. No matter.
vizzini		I'll tell you in a minute. First, let's drink -- me from my glass, and you from yours.
vizzini		 -- that's what's so funny! I switched glasses when your back was turned. You fool.
vizzini		You fell victim to one of the classic blunders. The most famous is "Never get involved in a land war in Asia." But only slightly less well known is this: "Never go in against a Sicilian when death is on the line."
buttercup		Who are you?
buttercup		 To think -- all that time it was your cup that was poisoned.
humperdinck		Someone has beaten a giant!  There will be great suffering in Guilder if she dies.
buttercup		If you'll release me ... whatever you ask for ransom ... you'll get it, I promise you...
buttercup		I was giving you a chance. No matter where you take me ... there's no greater hunter than Prince Humperdinck. He could track a falcon on a cloudy day. He can find you
buttercup		I never said he was my dearest love. And yes, he will save me. That I know.
buttercup		He knows I do not love him.
buttercup		I have loved more deeply than a killer like yourself could ever dream.
humperdinck		Iocane. I'd bet my life on it.  And there are the Princess's footprints. She is alive ... or was, an hour ago. If she is otherwise when I find her, I shall be very put out.
buttercup		 I know who you are -- your cruelty reveals everything.
buttercup		You're the Dread Pirate Roberts; admit it.
buttercup		You can die slowly cut into a thousand pieces.
buttercup		You killed my love.
buttercup		No. A farm boy. Poor. Poor and perfect, with eyes like the sea after a storm.
buttercup		On the high seas, your ship attacked, and the Dread Pirate Roberts never takes prisoners.
buttercup		You mock my pain!
buttercup		Nothing you can say will upset me.
buttercup		And what am I?
buttercup		You mocked me once, never do it again -- I died that day!
buttercup		You can die too, for all I care!!
buttercup		Oh, my sweet Westley; what have I done?
humperdinck		Disappeared. He must have seen us closing in, which might account for his panicking in error. Unless I'm wrong, and I am never wrong, they are headed dead into the fire swamp.
westley		Can you move at all?
buttercup		 Move? You're alive. If you want, I can fly.
westley		I told you, "I would always come for you." Why didn't you wait for me?
buttercup		Well ... you were dead.
westley		Death cannot stop true love. All it can do is delay it for a while.
buttercup		I will never doubt again.
westley		There will never be a need.
the kid		 Oh no. No, please.
grandfather		What is it? What's the matter?
the kid		They're kissing again, do we have to hear the kissing part?
grandfather		Someday, you may not mind so much.
the kid		Skip on to the Fire Swamp -- that sounded good.
grandfather		Oh. You're sick, I'll humor you.  So now, where were we here? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Ah. Oh. Okay. Westley and Buttercup raced along the ravine floor.
westley		Ha. Your pig fiance is too late. A few more steps and we'll be safe in the Fire Swamp.
buttercup		We'll never survive.
westley		Nonsense -- you're only saying that because no one ever has.
westley		It's not that bad. I'm not saying I'd like to build a summer home here, but the trees are actually quite lovely.
westley		Well now, that was an adventure.
westley		Singed a bit, were you?
buttercup		 You?
westley		Well, one thing I will say. The Fire Swamp certainly does keep you on your toes.
westley		 This will all soon be but a happy memory because Roberts' ship "Revenge" is anchored at the far end. And I, as you know, am Roberts.
buttercup		But how is that possible, since he's been marauding twenty years and you only left me five years ago?
westley		I myself am often surprised at life's little quirks.
westley		You see, what I told you before about saying "please" was true. It intrigued Roberts, as did my descriptions of your beauty.
westley		Finally, Roberts decided something. He said, "All right, Westley, I've never had a valet. You can try it for tonight. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." Three years he said that. "Good night, Westley. Good work. Sleep well. I'll most likely kill you in the morning." It was a fine time for me. I was learning to fence, to fight, anything anyone would teach me. And Roberts and I eventually became friends. And then it happened.
buttercup		What? -- go on --
westley		Well, Roberts had grown so rich, he wanted to retire. So he took me to his cabin and told me his secret. "I am not the Dread Pirate Roberts," he said. "My name is Ryan. I inherited this ship from the previous Dread Pirate Roberts, just as you will inherit it from me. The man I inherited it from was not the real Dread Pirate Roberts, either. 
westley		So we sailed ashore, took on an entirely new crew and he stayed aboard for awhile as first mate, all the time calling me Roberts. Once the crew believed, he left the ship and I have been Roberts ever since. Except, now that we're together, I shall retire and hand the name over to someone else. Is everything clear to you?
buttercup		We'll never succeed -- we may as well die here.
westley		No. No. We have already succeeded.
westley		I mean, what are the three terrors of the Fire Swamp? One, the flame spurts. No problem. There's a popping sound preceding each, we can avoid that. Two, the Lightning Sand. But you were clever enough to discover what that looks like, so in the future we can avoid that too.
buttercup		Westley, what about the R.O.U.S.'s?
westley		Rodents of Unusual Size? I don't think they exist...
buttercup		Westley!
buttercup		 We did it.
westley		Now, was that so terrible?
humperdinck		Surrender!
westley		You mean you wish to surrender to me? Very well, I accept.
humperdinck		I give you full marks for bravery --don't make yourself a fool.
westley		Ah, but how will you capture us? We know the secrets of the Fire Swamp. We can live there quite happily for some time. So, whenever you feel like dying, feel free to visit.
humperdinck		I tell you once again -- surrender!
westley		It will not happen!
humperdinck		 For the last time -- SURRENDER!
westley		 DEATH FIRST!!
buttercup		Will you promise not to hurt him?
humperdinck		What was that?
westley		What was that?
buttercup		If we surrender, and I return with you, will you promise not to hurt this man?
humperdinck		May I live a thousand years and never hunt again.
buttercup		 He is a sailor on the pirate ship "Revenge." Promise to return him to his ship.
humperdinck		I swear it will be done.
humperdinck		 Once we're out of sight, take him back to Florin and throw him in the Pit of Despair.
rugen		 I swear it will be done.
buttercup		I thought you were dead once, and it almost destroyed me. I could not bear it if you died again, not when I could save you.
rugen		Come, sir. We must get you to your ship.
westley		We are men of action. Lies do not become us.
rugen		Well spoken, sir --
rugen		-- what is it?
westley		You have six fingers on your right hand -- someone was looking for you --
westley		Where am I?
albino		 The Pit of Despair.
albino		 -- don't even think about trying to escape. The chains are far too thick. And don't dream of being rescued either. The only way in is secret. And only the Prince, the Count, and I know how to get in and out.
westley		Then I'm here till I die?
albino		 Till they kill you. Yeah.
westley		Then why bother curing me?
albino		The Prince and the Count always insist on everyone being healthy before they're broken.
westley		So it's to be torture.
westley		I can cope with torture.
westley		You don't believe me?
albino		You survived the Fire Swamp. You must be very brave...  ... but nobody withstands The Machine.
humperdinck		She's been like that ever since the Fire Swamp.  It's my father's failing health that's upsetting her.
rugen		 Of course.
grandfather		 The King died that very night, and before the following dawn, Buttercup and Humperdinck were married.
grandfather		 And at noon, she met her subjects again. This time as their Queen.
humperdinck		My father's final words were...
the kid		 -- hold it. Hold it, Grandpa.
the kid		You read that wrong. She doesn't marry Humperdinck, she marries Westley. I'm just sure of it. After all that Westley did for her, if she does not marry him, it wouldn't be fair.
grandfather		Well, who says life is fair? Where is that written? Life isn't always fair.
the kid		I'm telling you you're messing up the story, now get it right!
grandfather		Do you want me to go on with this?
the kid		Yes.
grandfather		All right, then. No more interruptions.  ... at noon, she met her subjects again. This time as their Queen.
humperdinck		My father's final words were "love her as I loved her, and there will be joy." I present to you your Queen. Queen Buttercup.
buttercup		Why do you do this?
ancient booer		Because you had love in your hands, and you gave it up.
buttercup		 But they would have killed Westley if I hadn't done it.
ancient booer		Your true love lives and you marry another --  -- True love saved her in the Fire Swamp, and she treated it like garbage. And that's what she is, the Queen of Refuse! So, bow down to her if you want. Bow to her. Bow to the Queen of Slime, the Queen of Filth, the Queen of Putrescence. Boo! Boo! Rubbish! Filth! Slime! Muck! Boo! Boo!
grandfather		 It was ten days till the wedding. The King still lived, but Buttercup's nightmares were growing steadily worse.
the kid		 See? Didn't I tell you she'd never marry that rotten Humperdinck?
grandfather		 -- yes, you're very smart. Shut-Up.
buttercup		It comes to this: I love Westley. I always have. I know now I always will. If you tell me I must marry you in ten days, please believe I will be dead by morning.
humperdinck		I could never cause you grief; consider our wedding off.  You returned this Westley to his ship?
rugen		Yes.
humperdinck		Then we will simply alert him.  Beloved, are you certain he still wants you? After all, it was you who did the leaving in the Fire Swamp. Not to mention that pirates are not known to be men of their words.
buttercup		My Westley will always come for me.
humperdinck		I suggest a deal. You write four copies of a letter. I'll send my four fastest ships. One in each direction. The Dread Pirate Roberts is always close to Florin this time of year. We'll run up the white flag and deliver your message. If Westley wants you, bless you both. If not ... please consider me as an alternative to suicide. Are we agreed?
rugen		Your Princess is really a winning creature. A trifle simple, perhaps, but her appeal is undeniable.
humperdinck		Oh, I know. The people are quite taken with her. It's odd, but when I hired Vizzini to have her murdered on our engagement day, I thought that was clever. But it's going to be so much more moving when I strangle her on our wedding night. Once Guilder is blamed, the nation will be truly outraged. They'll demand we go to war.
rugen		Now, where is that secret knot? It's impossible to find.  Are you coming down into the Pit? Westley's got his strength back. I am starting him on The Machine tonight.
humperdinck		Tyrone, you know how much I love watching you work. But, I've got my country's five hundredth anniversary to plan, my wedding to arrange, My wife to murder, and Guilder to frame for it. I'm swamped.
rugen		Get some rest -- if you haven't got your health, you haven't got anything.
rugen		Beautiful, isn't it?
rugen		It took me half a lifetime to invent it. I'm sure you've discovered my deep and abiding interest in pain. At present I'm writing the definitive work on the subject. So I want you to be totally honest with me on how The Machine makes you feel.
rugen		This being our first try, I'll use the lowest setting.
rugen		As you know, the concept of the suction pump is centuries old. Well, really, that's all this is. Except that instead of sucking water, I'm sucking life. I've just sucked one year of your life away. I might one day go as high as five, but I really don't know what that would do to you. So, let's just start with what we have. What did this do to you? Tell me. And remember, this is for posterity, so be honest -- how do you feel?
rugen		Interesting.
humperdinck		Yellin.
yellin		 Sire.
humperdinck		As Chief Enforcer of all Florin, I trust you with this secret: killers from Guilder are infiltrating the Thieves' Forest and plan to murder my bride on our wedding night.
yellin		My spy network has heard no such news.
buttercup		Any word from Westley?
humperdinck		Too soon, my angel. Patience.
buttercup		He will come for me.
humperdinck		Of course.
humperdinck		She will not be murdered. On the day of the wedding, I want the Thieves' Forest emptied and every inhabitant arrested.
yellin		Many of the thieves will resist. My regular enforcers will be inadequate.
humperdinck		Form a Brute Squad then. I want the Thieves' Forest emptied before I wed.
yellin		It won't be easy, Sire.
humperdinck		 Try ruling the world sometime.
grandfather		 The day of the wedding arrived. The Brute Squad had their hands full carrying out Humperdinck's orders.
yellin		 Is everybody out?
assistant brute		Almost. There's a Spaniard giving us some trouble.
yellin		Well, you give him some trouble. Move!
inigo		I am waiting for you, Vizzini. You told me to go back to the beginning. So I have. This is where I am, and this is where I'll stay. I will not be moved.
assistant brute		Ho there.
inigo		I do not budge. Keep your "Ho there."
assistant brute		But the Prince gave orders --
inigo		-- So did Vizzini -- when a job went wrong, you went back to the beginning. And this is where we got the job. So it's the beginning, and I'm staying till Vizzini comes.
assistant brute		 You! Brute! Come here.
inigo		-- I -- am -- waiting -- for -- Vizzini --
voice		 You surely are a meanie.
fezzik		Hello.
inigo		It's you.
fezzik		True!
fezzik		You don't look so good.  You don't smell so good either.
inigo		Perhaps not. I feel fine.
fezzik		Yeah?
grandfather		 FEZZIK and Inigo were reunited. And as FEZZIK nursed his inebriated friend back to health, he told Inigo of Vizzini's death and the existence of Count Rugen, the sixfingered man. Considering Inigo's lifelong search, he handled the news surprisingly well.
grandfather		 Fezzik took great care in reviving Inigo.
inigo		 That's enough. That's enough! Where is this Rugen so I may kill him?
fezzik		He's with the Prince in the Castle. But the castle gate is guarded by thirty men.
inigo		How many could you handle?
fezzik		I don't think more than ten.
inigo		 I need Vizzini to plan. I have no gift for strategy.
fezzik		But Vizzini's dead.
inigo		No -- not Vizzini -- I need the Man in Black --
fezzik		-- what? --
inigo		-- look, he bested you with strength, your greatness. He bested me with steel. He must have outthought Vizzini, and a man who can do that can plan my castle's onslaught any day. Let's go --
fezzik		-- where?
inigo		To find the Man in Black, obviously.
fezzik		But you don't know where he is.
inigo		 Don't bother me with trifles; after twenty years, at last, my father's soul will be at peace.
inigo		 There will be blood tonight!!
humperdinck		 Rise and report.
yellin		The Thieves' Forest is emptied. Thirty men guard the castle gate.
humperdinck		Double it. My Princess must be safe.
yellin		The gate has but one key, and I carry that.
humperdinck		Ah! My dulcet darling. Tonight we marry. Tomorrow morning, your men will escort us to Florin Channel where every ship in my armada waits to accompany us on our honeymoon.
buttercup		Every ship but your four fastest, you mean.
buttercup		Every ship but the four you sent.
humperdinck		Yes. Yes, of course. Naturally, not those four.
yellin		 Your Majesties.
buttercup		You never sent the ships. Don't bother lying. It doesn't matter. Westley will come for me anyway.
humperdinck		 You're a silly girl.
buttercup		Yes, I am a silly girl, for not having seen sooner that you were nothing but a coward with a heart full of fear.
humperdinck		 I-would-not-say-such things-if- Iwere-you-
buttercup		Why not? You can't hurt me. Westley and I are joined by the bonds of love. And you cannot track that. Not with a thousand bloodhounds. And you cannot break it. Not with a thousand swords. And when I say you are a coward, that is only because you are the slimiest weakling ever to crawl the earth.
humperdinck		IWOULDNOTSAYSUCHTHINGSIFIWEREYOU!
humperdinck		 You truly love each other, and so you might have been truly happy. Not one couple in a century has that chance, no matter what the storybooks say. And so I think no man in a century will suffer as greatly as you will.
rugen		Not to fifty!!!
fezzik		The Man in Black?
inigo		His true love is marrying another tonight, so who else has cause for Ultimate Suffering?  Excuse me --
inigo		-- pardon me, it's important --
inigo		-- Fezzik, please --
fezzik		 Everybody ... MOVE!!
inigo		Thank you.
inigo		Where is the Man in Black?
inigo		You get there from this grove, yes?
inigo		Fezzik, jog his memory.
fezzik		 I'm sorry, Inigo. I didn't mean to jog him so hard. Inigo?
inigo		Father, I have failed you for twenty years. Now our misery can end. Somewhere ... somewhere close by is a man who can help us. I cannot find him alone. I need you. I need you to guide my sword. Please.
inigo		Guide my sword.
fezzik		He's dead.
inigo		 It just is not fair.
the kid		 -- Grandpa, Grandpa -- wait --
the kid		-- wait -- what did FEZZIK mean, "He's dead?" I mean he didn't mean dead.
the kid		Westley's only faking, right?
grandfather		You want me to read this or not?
the kid		Who gets Humperdinck?
grandfather		I don't understand.
the kid		Who kills Prince Humperdinck? At the end, somebody's got to do it. Is it Inigo? Who?
grandfather		Nobody. Nobody kills him. He lives.
the kid		You mean he wins? Jesus, Grandpa! What did you read me this thing for?
grandfather		You know, you've been very sick and you're taking this story very seriously. I think we better stop now.
the kid		 -- sit down. All right?
grandfather		Okay.  All right, now, let's see. Where were we? Oh yes. In the Pit of Despair.
inigo		Well, we Montoyas have never taken defeat easily. Come along, Fezzik. Bring the body.
fezzik		The body?
inigo		 Have you any money?
fezzik		I have a little.
inigo		I just hope it's enough to buy a miracle, that's all.
miracle max		 What? What?
inigo		Are you the Miracle Max who worked for the King all those years?
miracle max		The King's stinking son fired me. And thank you so much for bringing up such a painful subject. While you're at it, why don't you give me a nice paper cut and pour lemon juice on it? We're closed!
miracle max		 Beat it or I'll call the Brute Squad.
fezzik		I'm on the Brute Squad.
miracle max		 You are the Brute Squad.
inigo		We need a miracle. It's very important.
miracle max		Look, I'm retired. And besides, why would you want someone the King's stinking son fired? I might kill whoever you wanted me to miracle.
inigo		He's already dead.
miracle max		 He is, eh? I'll take a look. Bring him in.
miracle max		I've seen worse.
inigo		Sir. Sir.
miracle max		Hah?
inigo		We're really in a terrible rush.
miracle max		 Don't rush me, sonny. You rush a miracle man, you get rotten miracles. You got money?
inigo		Sixty-five.
miracle max		Sheesh! I never worked for so little, except once, and that was a very noble cause.
inigo		This is noble, sir.  His wife is crippled. His children are on the brink of starvation.
miracle max		Are you a rotten liar.
inigo		I need him to help avenge my father, murdered these twenty years.
miracle max		Your first story was better.  He probably owes you money, huh? Well, I'll ask him.
inigo		 He's dead. He can't talk.
miracle max		Look who knows so much. Well, it just so happens that your friend here is only mostly dead. There's a big difference between mostly dead and all dead. Please open his mouth.
miracle max		Now, mostly dead is slightly alive. Now, all dead...well, with all dead, there's usually only one thing that you can do.
inigo		What's that?
miracle max		Go through his clothes and look for loose change.
miracle max		 Hey! Hello in there. Hey! What's so important? What you got here that's worth living for?
westley		... tr ... oooo .... luv...
inigo		True love. You heard him. You could not ask for a more noble cause than that.
miracle max		Sonny, true love is the greatest thing in the world. Except for a nice MLT, a mutton, lettuce and tomato sandwich, where the mutton is nice and lean and the tomato is ripe. They're so perky, I love that. But that's not what he said. He distinctly said "to blave." And, as we all know, "to blave" means "to bluff." So you're probably playing cards, and he cheated
miracle max		-- get back, witch --
valerie		I'm not a witch, I'm your wife. But after what you just said, I'm not even sure I want to be that anymore.
miracle max		You never had it so good.
valerie		"True love." He said, "true love," Max. My God --
miracle max		 Don't say another word, Valerie.
valerie		 He's afraid. Ever since Prince Humperdinck fired him, his confidence is shattered.
miracle max		Why'd you say that name -- you promised me that you would never say that name --
valerie		 What, Humperdinck? Humperdinck. Humperdinck. Ooo-ooo, Humperdinck
miracle max		 I'm not listening.
valerie		A life expiring and you don't have the decency to say why you won't help --
miracle max		Nobody's hearing nothing!
valerie		Humperdinck. Humperdinck! Humperdinck!
inigo		-- But this is Buttercup's true love -- If you heal him, he will stop Humperdinck's wedding.
valerie		Humperdinck. Humperdinck --
miracle max		 Wait. Wait. I make him better, Humperdinck suffers?
inigo		Humiliations galore!
miracle max		That is a noble cause. Give me the sixty-five, I'm on the job.
inigo		 That's a miracle pill?
valerie		 The chocolate coating makes it go down easier. But you have to wait fifteen minutes for full potency. And you shouldn't go swimming after, for at least, what?
miracle max		An hour.
valerie		Yeah, an hour.
miracle max		A good hour. Yeah.
inigo		 Thank you for everything.
miracle max		Okay.
valerie		 Bye-bye, boys.
miracle max		Have fun storming the castle.
valerie		 Think it'll work?
miracle max		It would take a miracle. Bye!
valerie		Bye.
fezzik		Inigo -- there's more than thirty --
inigo		 We've got him. Help me here. We'll have to force feed him.
fezzik		Has it been fifteen minutes?
inigo		We can't wait -- the wedding's in half an hour and we must strike in the hustle and the bustle beforehand.
inigo		Tilt his head back. Open his mouth.
fezzik		 How long do we have to wait before we know if the miracle works?
inigo		Your guess is as good as mine --
westley		 I'll beat you both apart. I'll take you both together.
fezzik		Guess not very long.
westley		Why won't my arms move?
fezzik		You've been mostly dead all day.
inigo		We had Miracle Max make a pill to bring you back.
westley		Who are you? -- Are we enemies? Why am I on this wall? -- Where's Buttercup? --
inigo		Let me explain -- 
westley		That doesn't leave much time for dilly dallying.
fezzik		You've just wiggled your finger. That's wonderful.
westley		I've always been a quick healer.  What are our liabilities?
inigo		There is but one working castle gate.
inigo		And it is guarded by sixty men.
westley		And our assets?
inigo		Your brains, Fezzik's strength, my steel.
westley		That's it? Impossible. If I had a month to plan, maybe I could come up with something. But this...
fezzik		 You just shook your head -- that doesn't make you happy?
westley		My brains, his steel, and your strength against sixty men, and you think a little head jiggle is supposed to make me happy? I mean, if we only had a wheelbarrow, that would be something.
inigo		Where did we put that wheelbarrow the Albino had?
fezzik		Over the Albino, I think.
westley		Well, why didn't you list that among our assets in the first place? What I wouldn't give for a holocaust cloak.
inigo		There we cannot help you.
fezzik		 Will this do?
inigo		 Where did you get that?
fezzik		At Miracle Max's. It fit so nice, he said I could keep it.
westley		All right, all right. Come on, help me up.
westley		Now, I'll need a sword eventually.
inigo		Why? You can't even lift one.
westley		True, but that's hardly common knowledge, is it?  Thank you. Now, there may be problems once we're inside.
inigo		I'll say -- how do I find the Count? -- Once I do, how do I find you again? -- Once I find you again, how do we escape? --
fezzik		 Don't pester him, he's had a hard day.
inigo		 Right, right, sorry.
fezzik		Inigo.
inigo		What?
fezzik		I hope we win...
humperdinck		You don't seem excited, my little muffin.
buttercup		Should I be?
humperdinck		Brides often are, I'm told.
buttercup		 I do not marry tonight.
buttercup		My Westley will save me.
impressive clergyman		 Mawidge...mawidge is what bwings us togewer today...
impressive clergyman		Mawidge, the bwessed awwangement, that dweam wiffim a dweam...
yellin		 Stand your ground, men. Stand your ground.
yellin		Stand your ground.
fezzik		 I AM THE DREAD PIRATE ROBERTS. THERE WILL BE NO SURVIVORS.
inigo		Now?
westley		Not yet.
fezzik		MY MEN ARE HERE, AND I AM HERE, BUT SOON YOU WILL NOT BE HERE
inigo		Now?
westley		Light him.
fezzik		 THE DREAD PIRATE ROBERTS TAKES NO SURVIVORS. ALL YOUR WORST NIGHTMARES ARE ABOUT TO COME TRUE.
impressive clergyman		... Ven wuv, twoo wuv, wiw fowwow you fowever..
fezzik		THE DREAD PIRATE ROBERTS IS HERE FOR YOUR SOULS!
yellin		Stay where you are. I said stay where you are!
impressive clergyman		... so tweasuwe your vruv..
humperdinck		Skip to the end.
impressive clergyman		Have you the wing?
buttercup		Here comes my Westley now.
westley		FEZZIK, the portcullis.
humperdinck		Your Westley is dead.
humperdinck		I killed him myself.
buttercup		 Then why is there fear behind your eyes?
westley		Give us the gate key.
yellin		 I have no gate key.
inigo		Fezzik, tear his arms off.
yellin		Oh, you mean this gate key.
impressive clergyman		And do you, Pwincess Buwwercwup...
humperdinck		Man and wife -- say man and wife...
impressive clergyman		Man and wife.
humperdinck		 Escort the bride to the Honeymoon Suite -- I'll be there shortly.
buttercup		He didn't come.
rugen		Kill the dark one and the giant, but leave the third for questioning.
inigo		 Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
inigo		 Fezzik, I need you --
fezzik		 I can't leave him alone.
inigo		He's getting away from me, Fezzik. Please. FEZZIK!
fezzik		 I'll be right back.
inigo		Thank you --
king		 Strange wedding.
queen		Yes. A very strange wedding. Come along.
king		What was that for?
buttercup		Because you've always been so kind to me. And I won't be seeing you again since I'm killing myself once we reach the Honeymoon Suite.
king		 She kissed me...
inigo		... Sorry, Father ... I tried ... I tried...
rugen		You must be that little Spanish brat I taught a lesson to all those years ago. It's simply incredible. Have you been chasing me your whole life only to fail now? I think that's the worst thing I ever heard. How marvelous.
westley		There's a shortage of perfect breasts in this world. It would be a pity to damage yours.
buttercup		Oh, Westley, darling.  Westley, why won't you hold me?
westley		 Gently.
buttercup		At a time like this that's all you can think to say? "Gently?"
westley		 Gently!!
rugen		Good heavens. Are you still trying to win?
rugen		You've got an overdeveloped sense of vengeance. It's going to get you into trouble some day.
inigo		 Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father; prepare to die.
inigo		 Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya, you killed my father, prepare to die.
inigo		 Hello. My name is Inigo Montoya. You killed my father. Prepare to die.
rugen		Stop saying that!
inigo		 HELLO! MY NAME IS INIGO MONTOYA. YOU KILLED MY FATHER. PREPARE TO DIE.
rugen		No --
inigo		-- offer me money --
rugen		-- yes --
inigo		-- power too -- promise me that --
rugen		-- all that I have and more please --
inigo		-- offer me everything I ask for --
rugen		-- anything you want --
inigo		 I WANT MY FATHER BACK, YOU SON- OFA-BITCH!
buttercup		Oh, Westley, will you ever forgive me?
westley		What hideous sin have you committed lately?
buttercup		I got married. I didn't want to. It all happened so fast.
westley		It never happened.
buttercup		What?
westley		It never happened.
buttercup		But it did. I was there. This old man said, "Man and wife."
westley		Did you say, "I do"?
buttercup		Well, no, we sort of skipped that part.
westley		Then you're not married -- if you didn't say it, you didn't do it  -- wouldn't you agree, Your Highness?
humperdinck		A technicality that will shortly be remedied. But first things first. To the death.
westley		No.  To the pain.
humperdinck		 I don't think I'm quite familiar with that phrase.
westley		I'll explain. And I'll use small words so that you'll be sure to understand, you wart-hog-faced buffoon.
humperdinck		That may be the first time in my life a man has dared insult me.
westley		It won't be the last. To the pain means the first thing you lose will be your feet, below the ankles, then your hands at the wrists, next your nose.
humperdinck		-- and then my tongue, I suppose. I killed you too quickly the last time, a mistake I don't mean to duplicate tonight.
westley		I wasn't finished -- the next thing you lose will be your left eye, followed by your right --
humperdinck		 -- and then my ears, I understand. Let's get on with it
westley		Wrong! Your ears you keep, and I'll tell you why --
westley		-- so that every shriek of every child at seeing your hideousness will be yours to cherish -- every babe that weeps at your approach, every woman who cries out, "Dear God, what is that thing?" will echo in your perfect ears. 
humperdinck		I think you're bluffing --
westley		It's possible, pig -- I might be bluffing -- it's conceivable, you miserable vomitous mass, that I'm only lying here because I lack the strength to stand -- then again, perhaps I have the strength after all.
westley		 DROP-YOUR-SWORD.
westley		 Have a seat.
westley		Tie him up. Make it as tight as you like.
inigo		Where's Fezzik?
westley		I thought he was with you.
inigo		No.
westley		In that case --
inigo		 Help him.
buttercup		Why does Westley need helping?
inigo		Because he has no strength --
humperdinck		I knew it! I knew you were bluffing! I knew he was bluffing.
inigo		 Shall I dispatch him for you?
westley		 Thank you, but no -- whatever happens to us, I want him to live a long life alone with his cowardice.
fezzik		 Inigo! Inigo, where are you?
fezzik		Ah, there you are. Inigo, I saw the Prince's stables, and there they were, four white horses. And I thought, there are four of us, if we ever find the lad -- hello, lad -- so I took them with me, in case we ever bumped into each other.  I guess we just did.
inigo		FEZZIK, you did something right.
fezzik		Don't worry -- I won't let it go to my head.
inigo		You know, it's very strange -- I have been in the revenge business so long, now that it's over, I don't know what to do with the rest of my life.
westley		 Have you ever considered piracy? You'd make a wonderful Dread Pirate Roberts.
grandfather		 They rode to freedom. And as dawn arose, Westley and Buttercup knew they were safe. A wave of love swept over them. And as they reached for each other...
the kid		What? What?
grandfather		No, it's kissing again. You don't want to hear it.
the kid		I don't mind so much.
grandfather		Okay.
grandfather		 Since the invention of the kiss, there have been five kisses that were rated the most passionate, the most pure. This one left them all behind. The end.
grandfather		Now I think you ought to go to sleep.
the kid		Okay.
grandfather		 Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. So long.
the kid		Grandpa?
the kid		Maybe you could come over and read it again to me tomorrow.
grandfather		 As you wish...
****Dialogues from script :Private_Life_of_Sherlock_Holmes.txt****

watson's voice		Somewhere in the vaults of a bank in London is a tin dispatch box with my name on it. It is not to be opened until fifty years after my death.
watson's voice		It contains certain mementos of my long association with a man who elevated the science of deduction to an art -- the world's first, and undoubtedly most famous, consulting detective.
watson's voice		It was August of 1887, and we were returning from Yorkshire, where Holmes had solved the baffling murder of Colonel Abernetty.
watson's voice		You may recall that he broke the murderer's alibi by measuring the depth to which the parsley had sunk in the butter on a hot day.
watson's voice		He was the most brilliant man I have ever known -- and I dare say people have envied me for sharing that flat with him in Baker Street.
watson's voice		I'll grant you he was stimulating -- but he could also be moody, unpredictable, egocentric, and more often than not, completely infuriating -- as our landlady, Mrs. Hudson, can attest -- bless her kind soul.
holmes		My dear Mrs. Hudson -- criminals are as unpredictable as head-colds. You never quite know when you're going to catch one.
watson		Here's an advance copy of Strand Magazine.  They've printed 'The Red-Headed League!'
holmes		 Very impressive.
watson		 Would you like to see how I treated it?
holmes		I can hardly wait. I'm sure I'll find out all sorts of fascinating things about the case that I never knew before.
watson		Just what do you mean by that?
holmes		Oh, come now, Watson, you must admit that you have a tendency to over-romanticize. You have taken my simple exercises in logic and embellished them, exaggerated them...
watson		I deny the accusation.
holmes		You have described me as six-foot-four, whereas I am barely six-foot-one.
watson		A bit of poetic license.
holmes		 You have saddled me with this improbable costume, which the public now expects me to wear.
watson		That's not my doing.  Blame it on the illustrator.
holmes		You've made me out to be a violin virtuoso. Here --
watson		 Oh, really?
holmes		The fact is that I could barely hold my own in the pit orchestra of a second-rate music hall.
watson		You're much too modest.
holmes		 You have given the reader the distinct impression that I am a misogynist. Actually, I don't dislike women -- I merely distrust them. The twinkle in the eye and the arsenic in the soup.
watson		It's those little touches that make you colorful --
holmes		Lurid is more like it. You have painted me as a hopeless dope addict -- just because I occasionally take a five per cent solution of cocaine.
watson		A seven per cent solution.
holmes		Five per cent. Don't you think I'm aware you've been diluting it behind my back?
watson		As a doctor -- and as your friend -- I strongly disapprove of this insidious habit of yours.
holmes		My dear friend -- as well as my dear doctor -- I only resort to narcotics when I am suffering from acute boredom -- when there are no interesting cases to engage my mind.  Look at this -- an urgent appeal to find six missing midgets.
watson		Did you say midgets?
holmes		Six of them -- the Tumbling Piccolos -- an acrobatic act with some circus.
watson		Disappeared between London and Bristol ... Don't you find that intriguing?
holmes		Extremely so. You see, they are not only midgets -- but also anarchists.
watson		Anarchists?
holmes		 By now they have been smuggled to Vienna, dressed as little girls in burgundy pinafores. They are to greet the Czar of all the Russias when he arrives at the railway station. They will be carrying bouquets of flowers, concealed in each bouquet will be a bomb with a lit fuse.
watson		You really think so?
holmes		Not at all. The circus owner offers me five pounds for my services -- that's not even a pound a midget.
watson		 Oh.    And it sounded so promising --
holmes		There are no great crimes anymore, Watson. The criminal class has lost all enterprise and originality. At best they commit some bungling villainy, with a motive so transparent that even a Scotland Yard official can see through it.
holmes		 MRS. HUDSON!
holmes		 There is something missing from my desk.
holmes		Something very crucial.  You have been tidying up against my explicit orders.
holmes		Dust, Mrs. Hudson, is an essential part of my filing system. By the thickness of it, I can date any document immediately.
watson		Please, Mrs. Hudson -- he's working on a definitive study of tobacco ash.
watson		In our endeavors, it is sometimes vital to distinguish between, say, the ashes of a Macedonian cigarette and a Jamaican cigar. Sor far he has classified 140 different kinds of ashes.
watson		That'll be enough, Mrs. Hudson.
holmes		She's right.    I am suffocating.
watson		Let me open a window.
holmes		Not from lack of air -- from lack of activity. Sitting here week after week -- blowing smoke rings -- staring through a microscope -- there's no challenge in that.
watson		Personally, I consider it a major contribution to scientific criminology...
holmes		How I envy you your mind, Watson.
watson		You do?
holmes		It's placid, imperturbable, prosaic. But my mind rebels against stagnation. It's like a racing engine, tearing itself to pieces because it's not connected up with the work for which it was built.
watson		Holmes --
watson		Holmes, where is your self-control?
holmes		Fair question.
watson		Aren't you ashamed of yourself?
holmes		Thoroughly.    But this will take care of it.
watson's voice		Naturally, I don't mean to imply that my friend was always on cocaine -- sometimes it was opium, sometimes it was hashish. And once he went one of these dreadful binges, there was no telling how long it would last.
watson		The only reason you moved in with me is to have a steady supply of stimulants.
holmes		Now, now, Watson -- you mustn't underestimate your other charms.
watson		Holmes, I warn you. If you lock yourself in there once more --
holmes		I intend to do nothing of the sort.
holmes		Not until you replace this needle.    It is getting rather blunt.
watson		Mrs. Hudson, I want you to pack my bags.
watson		And beyond.   I'm moving out.
holmes		I'm just as surprised as you are.
watson		You heard me, Mrs. Hudson.     And let's not waste any time.
holmes		May I be so bold as to ask where you'er going?
watson		I don't know yet. But I intend to resume my practice. I am, after all, a doctor. And quite a competent one, if I say so as shouldn't.
holmes		You'll find it very dull -- snipping out tonsils and flushing out kidneys --
holmes		If you're looking for your medical bag, you hid it under the Moorish table.  Which shows a little more imagination than last time -- when it was under your bed.
watson		I will, of course, continue to pay my half of the rent until you find someone to share these rooms with you.
holmes		Where am I going to find anyone who will put up with my rather eccentric habits?
watson		 Here's a fresh needle -- and here's my farewell present to you.
watson		If you want to destroy yourself, go right ahead. But I won't sit by and watch you doing it.
holmes		Watson...
watson		Please, Mrs. Hudson -- none of that.
watson		I'll be at Brown's Hotel.
watson		 Actually, I'm rather looking forward to it. Leading a normal life again. Regular office hours -- nine to three -- and if occasionally there's an emergency call in the middle of the night, I know it's going be appendicitis and not an ax murder. Let Holmes go mucking about in the fog and the sleet, looking for a bloodstained collar-button out on the moors, with some demented hound snapping at his behind --
holmes		Please, Mrs. Hudson.    You're in my line of fire.
holmes		Merely celebrating Her Majesty's Golden Jubilee.
watson		It's all right, Mrs. Hudson. I'll clean it up --  -- while you unpack my things.
holmes		You heard him.
watson		Thank you, Holmes. I know how difficult it must've been for you --
holmes		Not really. It was simple choice between a bad habit and a good companion.
watson		You've made me very happy.
holmes		I've often been accused of being cold and unemotional. I admit to it. And yet, in my cold, unemotional way, I'm very fond of you, Watson.
watson		I know that. But one likes to hear these things occasionally.
watson		Look at this. Covered with that nasty stuff. I'd better dry it off.
holmes		I'll do it.
watson		For a moment, I was worried that you were going to let me walk out -- that you weren't even going to try to stop me.
holmes		Now, Watson -- you know there's nothing I wouldn't do to keep you here.
watson's voice		It was not the first not the last time he tricked me like that. Normally, I was inclined to forgive him...  DISSOLVE TO:
watson's voice		But on one occasion, he did something that was so utterly unforgivable, that I would gladly have murdered him -- had it not been for my saintly disposition.
watson		Why are you being so stubborn, Holmes? Why won't you go? It's the final performance of the Imperial Russian Ballet -- the house has been sold out for months --
watson		-- seats are going for a guinea apiece --
holmes		That's precisely it. Why should someone send up two free tickets? Anonymously, at that.
watson		Whoever sent them must be in great distress. The note says --
holmes		I suspect it's some sort of plot.
watson		You mean somebody wants to lure us into a trap...?
holmes		Somebody wants to kill me.
watson		Kill you?
holmes		That's right. It's a plot to bore me to death. I detest ballet.
watson		But this isn't just any ballet.     It's Swan Lake.
watson		 You know, of course, Holmes -- that swan isn't really a swan -- it's an enchanted princess.
holmes		 H'mmmm.
box		 Watson trains his opera glasses on the stage, Holmes stifles a yawn.
stage		 PETROVA, as the Queen of the Swans, makes her entrance to loud applause. She is in her forties, but splendidly preserved, undoubtedly the greatest ballerina around.
watson		Fabulous woman, don't you think so, Holmes?
holmes		 Who?
watson		The great Petrova.
stage		 Petrova is making an exit, backwards, on points.
holmes		Very strong arches, I must admit.
watson		They say twelve men have died for her.
holmes		Really.
watson		Six committed suicide, four were killed in duels, and one fell out of the gallery in the Vienna Opera House.
holmes		That's only eleven.
watson		The man who fell from the gallery landed on top of another man in the orchestra.
holmes		That makes an even dozen -- in a messy sort of way.
stage		 Petrova and the dancer playing the Prince go into the famous pas-de-deux.
rogozhin		Mister Holmes?
holmes		Yes.
rogozhin		I am Nicolai Rogozhin, director-general of the Imperial Russian Ballet. So glad you accept invitation.
holmes		This is Dr. Watson.
rogozhin		Pleased to meet you.  You are enjoying?
watson		Immensely.
rogozhin		 Tell me, Mr. Holmes, how is your health?
holmes		My health?   Better consult my doctor.
watson		 Oh, he's in excellent shape.
rogozhin		 Any insanity in your family?   Diabetes? Asthma?
holmes		Would you mind telling me what this is all about?
rogozhin		Certainly.   Madame Petrova, she has problem.
holmes		Could you be more specific?
rogozhin		Certainly not.
watson		A liason with a crowned head? Compromising letters? Blackmail?
stage		 The pas-de-deux finished, to a rousing ovation. 
rogozhin		After performance, there will be little celebration backstage -- and Madame requests your presence.
watson		We'd be delighted.
rogozhin		 You are invited, also.
rogozhin		There you are, Mr. Holmes. Madame is expecting you in her dressing room. Dr. Watson, you will amuse yourself meanwhile -- we have vodka, caviar, girls.
watson		No, thank you.
rogozhin		No girls?
watson		No caviar. Makes me break out in hives.
rogozhin		Dievushki. Siude, siuda, dievushki. Posnakomtes s docktorum Watsonom.
watson		Any of you girls understand English?
girls		Nyet.
watson		Not one single word?
girls		Nyet.
watson		In that case, I don't mind telling you that you all have lovely po-pos.
rogozhin		Mr. Holmes, I must prepare you -- this is no ordinary case.
holmes		It is only the extraordinary that interests me.
rogozhin		Good. Because you will find this extra- extraordinary.
rogozhin		Madame Petrova prinimaet?
maid		Pozhaluista voidite.
rogozhin		Ja priviol vam Mistera Sherlock Holmesa, doragaia.
petrova		 Otchen rada.
holmes		Madame.
petrova		 Vi menshe rostom chem ja ozhidala.
holmes		Madame says you are shorter than she thought.
holmes		I didn't mean to be.
petrova		No eto nie vazhno. Menia interessujut glavnim obra som vashi mosghi.
rogozhin		Short, tall, who cares?   It is the brains that count.
holmes		 Thank you.
petrova		Ja prochia vsie vashi prikliuchenia. Zamiechatelno! Os sobenno sobaka Baskervillei.
rogozhin		Madame is great admirer of yours. She has read every story -- her favorite is Big Dog from Baskerville.
holmes		I'm afraid it loses something in translation.
petrova		Nikolai, pokazhite iemu skripku.
rogozhin		Mr. Holmes, you know about fiddles.  What is your opinion of this?
holmes		 Judging from the shape, the color of the varnish, and the tone, I would say it is a genuine Stradivarius of the best period.
rogozhin		You like?
holmes		It's magnificent.
petrova		 Skazhite jemu chto eto podarok ot menia.
rogozhin		Here -- take it. Madame says it is yours.
holmes		Mine?
rogozhin		For services you will render.
holmes		My fees as a detective are not exactly trifling -- but a Stradivarius -- you're not serious.
rogozhin		I am not.   But Madame is.
petrova		Nalejte vodki i obiasnite jemu v chom dielo.
rogozhin		All right.   I will pour vodka and explain.  Mr. Holmes, what you have seen tonight is last and positively final performance of Madame Petrova. She is retiring.
holmes		What a shame.
rogozhin		She has been dancing since she was three years old. And after all, she is now thirty-eight.
holmes		 I must say she doesn't look thirty-eight.
rogozhin		That is because she is   forty-nine.  So Madame has decided   to leave ballet and spend life bringing up   her child.
holmes		How admirable.
rogozhin		 Problem now is to find father.
holmes		Oh?   Is he missing?
rogozhin		Correct.
holmes		And that's why you called me in?
rogozhin		Also correct. We must have father, because without father, how can there be child?
holmes		I see. The whole thing is still in the planning stage --
rogozhin		Correct again. Madame would like child to be brilliant and beautiful. Since she is beautiful -- she now needs man who is brilliant.
petrova		Za zdorovie.
rogozhin		 Za zdorovie.
holmes		Za zdrovie.
holmes		What's in it?
rogozhin		What does it taste like?
holmes		Red pepper.
rogozhin		That's what's in it.
petrova		 Kogda mi smozhem dvinutsa v putj?
holmes		I beg your pardon?
rogozhin		Madame wants to know how soon you can be ready.
holmes		Ready?
rogozhin		To leave for Venice. All arrangements have been made. You will spend one week there with Madame...
holmes		Well, this is all very flattering. But surely there are other me -- better men --
rogozhin		To tell you truth, you were not first choice. We considered Russian writer, Tolstoi --
holmes		That's more like it.   The man's a genius.
rogozhin		Too old... Then we considered the philosopher, Nietzsche --
holmes		Absolutely first-rate mind...
rogozhin		Too German... And we considered Tschaikowski --
holmes		Oh, you couldn't go wrong with Tschaikowski --
rogozhin		We could -- and we did.   It was catastrophe.
holmes		Why?
rogozhin		You don't know? Because Tschaikowski -- how shall put it? Women not his glass of tea.
holmes		Pity, that.
petrova		 Skazhite jemu chto je otchen dovolna etim resheniem.
rogozhin		Madame is very happy with final choice.
holmes		Madame mustn't be too hasty.   She must remember I'm an Englishman.
rogozhin		So?
holmes		You know what they say about us. If there's one thing more deplorable than our cooking, it's our love-making. We are not exactly the most romantic of people --
rogozhin		Perfect. We don't want sentimental idiots -- falling in love, committing suicide. One week in Venice -- she goes back to St. Petersburg with baby -- you go back to London with fiddle.
holmes		An equitable arrangement.  About my medical history -- when you asked me -- I neglected to mention a small detail. There is hemophilia in my family. We're all bleeders.
rogozhin		 On govorit, chto v jevo semie stradajut ghemofilijei.
petrova		Pust nie bezpokoitsa.    Ja ostrighu sebe noghti.
rogozhin		Madame says not to worry.    She will not scratch you.
holmes		That's reassuring to know.    But --
petrova		 Pochemu on kolebletsa? On nie nahodit menia dostatochno privlekatelnoi?
rogozhin		Madame says you talk too much.    You find her attractive or no?
watson		Excuse me.  What does prokanzik mean?
rogozhin		It means 'You little devil.'
watson		It does?   I am? Thank you.
rogozhin		 I repeat question. You find Madame attractive or no?
holmes		 Oh, I find her most attractive -- for a woman, that is.
rogozhin		Then no problem.
holmes		Maybe a slight one.       You see, I am not a free man.
rogozhin		Not free?   You are a bachelor.
holmes		A bachelor -- living with another bachelor -- for the last five years. Five very happy years.
rogozhin		What is it you are trying to tell me?
holmes		I hoped I could avoid the subject. But some of us -- through a cruel caprice of Mother Nature --
rogozhin		Get to point.
holmes		The point is that Tschaikowski is not an isolated case.
rogozhin		You mean, you and Dr. Watson -- ?  He is your glass of tea?
holmes		If you want to be picturesque about it.
petrova		 Chto on govorit? Pri chom tut Chaikovsky?
rogozhin		On pederast.
petrova		 Jescho odin? Eto stanovitsa odnoobrasno! Kakoi vi idiot!
holmes		 Believe me, Madame, the loss is all mine. But I would prefer to disappoint you know than disappoint you in a gondola in Venice.
holmes		 It would have been catastrophe.
petrova		 Potchemu vi nie vijasnili eto eto ranshe, prezhde chem posoritj menia!
holmes		Watson!  Watson, are you coming?
watson		 What is it, old boy?
holmes		We're going home.
watson		Home? Not a chance. Not the slightest -- not the remotest chance. Toodle-ooo.
watson		Hold on!    Just a moment!
watson		 What's going on? What happened to the girls?
rogozhin		Why?   Do you not prefer it this way?
watson		What way?
rogozhin		You don't have to pretend. Mr. Holmes told us everything -- about you and him --
watson		About me and him?
rogozhin		Come now, no need to be bashful. We are not bourgeois. Maybe with doctors and detectives is unusual -- but in ballet, is very usual.
watson		What is?
rogozhin		Caprice of Mother Nature. Look at Pavel and Mischa and Boris and Dmitri --
rogozhin		-- And Ilya and Sergei --  Sergei -- half and half.
watson		Holmes!
watson		Holmes!
watson		There you are, you wretch! You rotter! You blackguard! Of all the vile, unspeakable fabrications. What do you have to say for yourself?
watson		Don't just sit there -- speak up, man!
watson		Holmes...?   Are you all right, Holmes?
holmes		From the sound of your footsteps, I gathered that you were not in a particularly amiable mood.
watson		 How could you do a dastardly thing like that to me? What the deuce were you thinking of?
holmes		Watson, you  have my most abject apologies.   But have you ever been cornered by  a madwoman?  It seemed like the only way  to get out of it without hurting her  feelings.
watson		What about my feelings? And my reputation? Do you realize the gravity of what you have done? The possible repercussions?
holmes		So there'll be a little gossip about you in St. Petersburg...
watson		These things spread like wildfire. I can just hear those malicious whispers behind my back. I'll never be able to show my face in polite society...
holmes		Watson, you're running amok.
watson		Dishonored, disgraced, ostracized.   What am I to do?
holmes		Well, for one thing, I'd get rid of that flower.
watson		You may think this is funny, but we're both in the same boat. We must take desperate measures. We must stop this talk...  Maybe if we got married...
holmes		Then they'd really talk...
watson		 Obviously, we cannot continue to live under the same roof. We must move apart.
holmes		Of course, we can still see each other clandestinely -- on remote benches in Hyde Park, and in the waiting rooms of suburban railway stations --
watson		 The whole thing is ridiculous.   We have nothing to hide.
holmes		That's what I've been trying to tell you.
watson		Let somebody start a rumor -- just one ugly word -- and we'll sue them for slander.
holmes		Nobody would dare. After all, you have an enviable record with the fair sex.
watson		Damn right. I can get women from three continents to testify for me. And you can get women to vouch for you, too -- can't you, Holmes?
watson		Can you, Holmes?
holmes		Good night, Watson.
watson		Holmes, let me ask you a question --  I hope I'm not being presumptuous -- but there have been women in your life?
holmes		The answer is yes.  Good night.
watson		Holmes...
watson's voice		What, indeed, was his attitude toward women? Was there some secret he was holding back -- or was he just a thinking machine, incapable of any emotion?
watson's voice		I was not to get the answer until we became involved in what I consider to be the most outrageous case in all our years together.
watson		Were you expecting someone?
holmes		Not at this hour.
watson		Maybe Mrs. Hudson is entertaining.
holmes		I never found her so.
watson		What is it, Mrs. Hudson?
watson		For what?
cabbie		 For the fare, guv'nor. The young lady doesn't have any money.
watson		What young lady?
cabbie		This one.
watson		Well.  What have we here?  Who are you, miss? What happened to you?
gabrielle		 I don't know.
cabbie		That's all she keeps saying -- I don't know, I don't know.
watson		Where did she come from?
cabbie		From the river. I was driving down the Embankment, just below Westminster Bridge, and there she was in the water -- drowning.
cabbie		It wasn't easy, guv'nor -- what with the cold water -- and her fighting me --
holmes		 Why did you bring her here?
cabbie		Because I found this in her hand --  -- 221B Baker Street -- that's right, isn't it?
holmes		 Young lady -- what did you want at this address?
gabrielle		 I do not remember.
watson		 Rather perplexing, wouldn't you say?
holmes		Rather.
cabbie		Well, gentlemen, you want her? -- it's two-and-six -- or shall I throw her back in the river?
holmes		Watson, you'd better accept delivery.
watson		Keep the change.
cabbie		Thank you, guv'nor.
cabbie		No extra charge for the use of the horse- blanket.
watson		You're shivering, my dear. 
watson		Sit here, my dear.
watson		She's suffering from shock and exposure.
holmes		There was some printing on the back of this -- but it seems to have come off in the water.
watson		Look at this -- she's had a nasty blow on the head.
watson		No. The blood has already coagulated. So it would appear that she was the victim of a deliberate attack... Get my bag, will you?
gabrielle		Who are you?
watson		I'm Dr. Watson -- and this is Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Do the names mean anything to you?
gabrielle		No.
watson		Think.
gabrielle		I'm trying.
holmes		Can you think of your own name?
gabrielle		 No.
watson		She's obviously had a concussion -- which often leads to temporary amnesia.
holmes		So all we know is that she was coshed on the head, dumped into the Thames, and subsequently dumped into our laps.
watson		We know a lot more than that. From her accent, we know she is foreign -- from her ring, we know she is married -- and there is one other clue we have... Something I deduced while I was helping her up the stairs. No corset.
holmes		Good work.
holmes		 Vous etes Francaise?
gabrielle		 Non, je ne suis pas Francaise.
watson		How can she say she's not French, in French?
holmes		Vous etes Suisse?
gabrielle		Non.
holmes		Alors, vous etes Belge.
gabrielle		 Je suis pas sure.
holmes		Vous etes Belge -- de Bruxelles!
gabrielle		Bruxelles?    Oui... Je pense que oui.
watson		We just found out that she's Belgian.
watson		From Brussels.
holmes		 If you don't mind.
holmes		Your name is Gabrielle, is that right? Gabrielle?
gabrielle		I don't know.
holmes		And your husband's name is Emile?
gabrielle		 Emile...
holmes		Where is he? What are you doing in London?
gabrielle		I don't know.
holmes		When did you arrive from Brussels?     Where are you staying?
gabrielle		I don't know.
holmes		What happened at the river?   Think! Pensez! Concentrez vous!
watson		 I'll sleep on the couch.
watson		I'd better mix her a sleeping potion.
holmes		Watson, I think we should arrange to have her removed to a hospital.
watson		Under no circumstances.
holmes		She should have medical attention.
watson		She can get that from me. But more importantly, she must be protected -- there has already been one attempt on her life.
holmes		This temporary amnesia -- how temporary is it?
watson		It depends on the extent of the injury. It's like veils shrouding her memory. It could clear up in a few days -- or a few weeks.
holmes		Watson, this is a very small flat -- we don't want to clutter it up with women...
watson		Holmes, we've never had a case like this. A woman comes to us with a problem -- we don't know who the woman is -- and we don't know what the problem is. Don't you find that challenging?
holmes		Quite. But we can't afford to wait for those veils to lift -- we must break through them as quickly as possible.
watson		You   really feel it's that urgent?
holmes		I do. The sooner we solve the case, the sooner we can get rid of her.
watson		Oh.
gabrielle		Emile?
gabrielle		Emile?
gabrielle		Emile?   Is that you, Emile?
holmes		 Yes, Gabrielle.
gabrielle		 It's been such a long time. So many nights. You know what I did before I left Brussels?
holmes		What?
gabrielle		I hope you won't be angry with me. I bought myself an expensive negligee.
holmes		Did you?
gabrielle		 Come.
holmes		Where is the negligee?
gabrielle		In my luggage... Come here.
holmes		 And where is your luggage?
gabrielle		 I don't know. Come, my love.   Come. Please.
gabrielle		What is it, Emile? What are you doing?
watson		I would like to very much. But --  Mrs. Hudson, would you mind planting your knee in the small of my back?
watson		Please!   I'm in excruciating pain.
watson		A bit higher -- just below my seventh vertebra --  That's good. Put your arms under mine -- fold them behind my neck --
watson		Bless you.  You'd better see if our patient is awake.
watson		Gone?
watson		Holmes!   Holmes! She's gone!
holmes		 Mmmmm. I smell porridge.   Lumpy as usual, I suppose.
watson		Oh, there you are, Holmes. We were just wondering -- how -- 
holmes		Mrs. Hudson, why don't you go down to the kitchen -- get a towel -- and wipe that look of disapproval off your face.
watson		You can't really blame her -- I mean, the way it looks -- if I didn't know you better, I might suspect you'd taken advantage of the young lady.
holmes		As a matter of fact, I did take advantage of her... Would you hand me the butter- knife, please?
watson		Of course.
watson		You did what?
holmes		 Thank you.
watson		 Holmes, this is reprehensible! Where are your professional ethics? Have you no sense of decency, no shame --
holmes		None whatsoever. If you must know, I found her body quite rewarding.
watson		You cad!
holmes		Especially the palm of her right hand.
watson		I'd rather not hear about it!
holmes		Very well. Then I won't bother to tell you how I traced her suitcase.
watson		That's her suitcase?
holmes		Remember that piece of soggy cardboard with our address on it? It was a luggage ticket -- the number rubbed off on her hand. And since she must have arrived from Brussels by the boat train, I concluded that she had checked her belongings at Victoria Station.
watson		By Jove! If you're right, we should find a clue to her identity.
holmes		Or at least a pink negligee with maribou feathers.
holmes		Voila!
watson		Let's see - what else is in here?
holmes		Now we're getting somewhere.
watson		Who do you suppose this is?
holmes		Come in, Madame Valladon.  You are Gabrielle Valladon.
gabrielle		Yes.
holmes		 And this is your husband, Emile Valladon?
gabrielle		Yes.
holmes		Sorry to have ransacked your valise.     But since you came to us for help --
gabrielle		Where am I?
watson		221B Baker Street.
gabrielle		Oh, yes...  Which of you is Mr. Holmes and which is Dr. Watson?
holmes		Dr. Watson is the handsome one.
holmes		That's the way he affects most women.
watson		 Coffee. You want strong coffee.
gabrielle		It's all so confusing.
holmes		Let's try to sort it out. You came to London looking for your husband...
gabrielle		Yes. He's a mining engineer. We were married five years ago, in the Congo.
holmes		Where your husband was working in a copper mine.
gabrielle		How did you know?
holmes		Your wedding ring -- it's made of copper.
gabrielle		Last year he invented a new kind of air pump, and was hired by an English company, Jonah Limited.
watson		 Here you are.
holmes		Jonah Limited. Go on.
gabrielle		We've been writing to each other regularly. Then suddenly,  three weeks ago, his letters stopped.  I kept writing ... but no answer. Finally  I decided to go to that address --
holmes		32 Ashdown Street.
gabrielle		Yes. It's just an empty store -- nobody there. Then I tried to find Jonah Limited. No such company exists.
watson		How decidedly odd.
holmes		Madame Valladon, can you think of any reason why your husband should have lied to you about theses things?
gabrielle		Emile?   Never. He loves me -- and I love him.
holmes		So I gathered.
gabrielle		I went to the police -- they said they would send out a missing persons report -- but they didn't sound too encouraging. Then I went to the Belgian embassy and explained the situation to them -- and they suggested that I consult you...
watson		You could have done worse.
gabrielle		I was on my way here -- and suddenly there were footsteps behind me -- and a hand over my mouth -- and the smell of choloroform -- and the next thing I knew I was in the water -- and then a man was wrapping me in a blanket --
holmes		Madame Valladon, somebody tried to kill you last night. Do you have any idea who could have done it?
gabrielle		I don't understand any of it.  What does it all mean, Mr. Holmes? Where is my husband? You must help me find him.
watson		We'll do our best, I assure you.
holmes		Madame Valladon, I want you to send one more letter to your husband.
holmes		To Emile Valladon -- Ashdown Street -- what was that number?
gabrielle		 32. What do you want me to say in the letter?
holmes		Nothing.
watson		You're sending an empty sheet of paper to an empty shop?
holmes		That empty shop is obviously    being used as an accomodation address,    or letter- drop. But what gets dropped     must be picked up. The question is     how? -- and by whom? -- and why?
holmes		Hammer... Chisel.
watson		Here!
gabrielle		It's so strange to think I've been writing to a place like this all these months.
watson		Look at all these canaries. Do you suppose this could have been a pet shop?
holmes		Maybe.  Here comes our letter.
holmes		Now we are faced with the most nerve- wracking part of the detective's job -- doing nothing.
gabrielle		Mr. Holmes --
holmes		Yes?
gabrielle		I don't know how I'm going to pay you for all this. The purse with my money is somewhere at the bottom of the Thames.
holmes		It could be worse. You could be at the bottom of the Thames -- much to your discomfort -- and much to my chagrin.
watson		I don't understand how anybody picks up letters here.  No footprints -- just tracks. What does it mean?
holmes		I would surmise somebody is using ice- skates -- if it weren't for a conspicuous absence of ice.
watson		 What do we do now?
holmes		 This way.
first carter		Morning, Duchess.
second carter		What have you been doing with yourself?
first carter		Two dozen.
second carter		Look, Duchess, we don't know -- and we don't want to know.
first carter		When you work for Jonah, it's better not to ask questions.
first carter		 ... twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty- four.
second carter		How about that letter? Does that go, too?
watson		 I really thought we were done for.
holmes		 The art of concealment, my dear Watson, is merely a matter of being in the right place at the right time.
gabrielle		Did you hear what she said? You really think Emile is going to pick up the letter himself?
holmes		It certainly would simplify things, wouldn't it?
watson		 Maildrops and canaries and wheelchairs... And what was all that about Jonah? And what do you suppose they're doing up there? And where is up there?
holmes		My guess would be Scotland.   Inverness, to be more precise.
watson		Inverness?
holmes		Didn't you notice the paper at the bottom of their cage? The Inverness Courier.
gabrielle		Mr. Holmes! This letter -- 
holmes		What about it?
gabrielle		 It's addressed to you.
holmes		Nevertheless --
holmes		 What time do you make it, Watson?
holmes		Either your watch is wrong, or Mycroft has miscalculated. And knowing Mycroft, I suggest you reset your watch.
watson		I don't mind telling you I'm a bit apprehensive about this.
holmes		I'm rather curious myself as to what is going on in that Machiavellian mind of his.
watson		I don't mean Mycroft, I mean Madame Valladon.
holmes		Don't worry.    She's perfectly safe with Mrs. Hudson.
holmes		 To see Mr. Mycroft Holmes.
porter		Right you are. He's expecting you in the upstairs study. Now if you gentlemen will sign in --  Surname, Christian name, address, nature of business --
porter		Gentlemen...!
holmes		Jamaican, no doubt -- either Tropical or Golosina -- I'm not quite sure.
mycroft		 You're looking very fit, both of you.
watson		Thank you.
holmes		 And how are you, Mycroft? How's your gout?
mycroft		Under control. Except for the occasional twinge.
mycroft		I have a treat for you -- a very old Madeira -- 1814. There are  only six bottles left in the world.  I have two of them, and am negotiating for a third.
watson		If you don't mind my saying so, anybody who's susceptible to gout shouldn't be --
mycroft		The last doctor who warned me about that was crossing Piccadilly, slipped on an orange peel, and was run over by a delivery van from the Fortnum and Mason. Your very good health.
holmes		Why are you wasting this precious stuff on us?
mycroft		Well, I see you so rarely. How long has it been? Not since the case of the Greek interpreter.  Isn't it ridiculous? Two brothers living in the same town...
holmes		In the same town, perhaps -- but not the same world.
watson		 Mmmm.    Superb. How old did you say it was?
watson		One year before Waterloo?    Think of that.
mycroft		You do know where Waterloo is, don't you, Doctor?
watson		Belgium, isn't it?
mycroft		Quite.  And speaking of Belgium, it has come to my attention that you are interested in the whereabouts of a certain engineer.
holmes		Yes, I am.
mycroft		Well, I can save you a lot of trouble.
holmes		I'd be grateful for any suggestion --
mycroft		My suggestion is that you pursue it no further.
holmes		Any particular reason?
mycroft		Because it involves the national security. We are handling this matter ourselves.
watson		We?   Who's we?
holmes		The Diogenes Club, of course.
mycroft		I didn't say that.
holmes		I have always suspected that there was some underground connection between this stodgy and seemingly calcified establishment and the Foreign Office in Whitehall.
mycroft		That's neither here nor there.
holmes		It seems to me that The Diogenes Club is here, there and everywhere. When there are rumblings of revolt in the Sudan, an expedition subsidized by your club conveniently shows up to study the source of the Nile. When there is trouble along the Indian frontier, some of your fellow members pop up in the Himalayas, alledgedly looking for the Abominable Snowman.
mycroft		 What a fertile imagination my brother has. At the age of five, by carefully observing a neighbor's house, he deduced that babies were brought not by the stork, but by the mid-wife in her satchel.
watson		As good an explanation as any.
mycroft		Yes, Wiggins?
young man		An immediate answer is requested, sir.
mycroft		Tell them that the three boxes go to Glennahurich, and the red runner goes to the castle.
young man		The three boxes to Glennahurich, the red runner to the castle. Very good, sir.
holmes		Why don't you crumple it up and swallow it -- to make sure.
mycroft		My dear Sherlock, there  are certain affairs that do not come  within the province of the private  detective. They have to be dealt with on  an altogether different level.
holmes		In other words, you want me to stay within my limits.
mycroft		I do indeed.
holmes		Speaking of limits, what exactly is Jonah Limited?
mycroft		Sherlock, when I said drop this case, it was not merely a suggestion -- it was an order!
holmes		By whose authority?
mycroft		By the authority of Her Majesty's government. I hope I've made myself clear.
watson		Perfectly.
mycroft		Now if you'll excuse me, gentlemen --
watson		Goodbye, sir.
holmes		A pleasure, as always.
mycroft		 You forgot your tool-kit.
watson		You will be gentle, won't you, when you tell her you're dropping the case?
holmes		Watson, what does the word Glennahurich suggest to you?
watson		Absolutely nothing.
holmes		It's Scottish.
watson		Is it?
holmes		And like all Scottish names, it's really a word picture. Glen means valley, na means of the, and Hurich, if memory serves me, means yew tree.
watson		You're just trying to impress me.
holmes		So the three boxes go to the Valley of the Yew Tree.
watson		 You are dropping the case, aren't you, Holmes?
holmes		Open the door.
holmes		Don't shoot, Mrs. Hudson -- you're liable to lose two excellent tenants.
watson		Why?   What happened?
holmes		 You'll be relieved to know it was not loaded.
watson		Holmes, you didn't answer my  question. Are you planning to disobey  Mycroft's orders? He's not just your   brother, you know. You'd be defying Her   Majesty's government...
gabrielle		Any news?   Did you find out anything?
holmes		Let's just say I know what the next step will be.
gabrielle		 Yes?
holmes		I want you to pack your things.
gabrielle		Where are we going?
watson		Holmes, let me caution you ---
holmes		 At 7:30 this evening, Dr. Watson and I are going to take you to Victoria Station, and put you on the boat-train.
gabrielle		The boat-train?
watson		Well, that's better.
gabrielle		You're sending me back to Brussels?   Is that it?
watson		Madame Valladon, you must understand...
gabrielle		 I came here to find my husband -- you were going to help me --
watson		Yes, my dear. But circumstances have changed --
gabrielle		The great detective! Well, maybe this case is too small for you --
watson		On the contrary. It's being handled at a much higher level --
gabrielle		Well, I won't go back to Brussels. Maybe you're giving up, but I'm not.  I'm going to go on looking for him. And nobody's going to stop me -- even if they try to kill me.
holmes		 Are you quite finished? If you recall, what I said was that we're going to put you on the boat-train -- I didn't say you were going to stay on it.
watson		She's not?
holmes		At 7:30, Mr. Holmes and Dr. Watson will be seen waving goodbye to Madame Valladon at Victoria Station. At eight-twelve, Mr. and Mrs. Ashdown accompanied by their valet John --  -- will appear at Euston Station, and board the Highland Express to Inverness.
watson		Mr. and Mrs.... ?
holmes		That's not necessary.
gabrielle		 I'll go and pack.
watson		 Maybe I should do it, since I'm the valet.
watson		Holmes, what exactly are you up to?
holmes		As you like to put it in your chronicles, the game is afoot.
watson		But what game? Are you really that interested in the Belgian engineer?
watson		Or the wife of the Belgian engineer?
gabrielle		You don't like me very much, do you?
watson		Nothing of the sort. Quite the opposite... But there's more to this case than meets the eye --
watson		Looking for something?
gabrielle		My other glove.
watson		Let me help you.
watson		Here it is.
gabrielle		Thank you.
holmes		All right.    You can look now.
gabrielle		Am I embarrassing you, Mr. Holmes?
holmes		Not at all. Would it surprise you if I told you I once spent the night with 121 women?
gabrielle		Oh?
holmes		On a very interesting case -- in a harem in Constantinople.
watson		Sorry, father -- I mean, friar -- or is it abbot?
watson		Going to Scotland, you gentlemen?   So are we...
watson		I'm a valet. My master and mistress and I are our way to Inverness. Ever been there? Beautiful country.
watson		Oh, forgive me. You must be one of those orders that's taken the vow of silence. Trappists, I believe you're called.
watson		I see you're reading the book of Jonah. Funny - we were just talking about Johan this morning...  Never mind.
gabrielle		Women are never to be trusted entirely -- not the best of them.
holmes		What did you say?
gabrielle		I didn't say it -- you did. According to Dr. Watson.
holmes		Oh.
gabrielle		He gave me some back issues of Strand Magazine.
holmes		The good doctor is constantly putting words into my mouth.
gabrielle		Then you deny it?
holmes		Not at all. I am not a whole-hearted admirer of womankind.
gabrielle		I'm not very fond of them myself.
holmes		The most affectionate woman I ever knew was a murderess.
gabrielle		Oh?
holmes		It was one of those passionate affairs -- at odd hours -- right in my laboratory. And all the time, behind my back, she was stealing cyanide to sprinkle on her husband's steak and kidney pie.
gabrielle		You mustn't judge all women by --
holmes		Of course not. Only the ones I was involved with. And I don't just mean professionally -- kleptomaniacs, nymphomaniacs, pyromaniacs. Take my fiancee, for instance --
gabrielle		Your fiancee?
holmes		She was the daughter of my violin teacher -- we were engaged to be married -- the invitations were out, I was being fitted for a tail-coat -- and twenty-four hours before the wedding, she died of influenza.
gabrielle		I'm sorry.
holmes		It just proves my contention that women are unreliable and not to be trusted.  Good night, Mrs. Ashdown.
gabrielle		Good night, Mr. Ashdown.
monk		 Die Spur fuehrt nach Inverness. Die steigen dort aus. Dort muessen wir ihn finded -- den Valladon!
watson		Let's see -- two, three, four --
gabrielle		I'll take that.
holmes		 How do you get to Glennahurich?    How far is it?
baggageman		Glennahurich?
watson		You know -- a valley -- with a yew tree... ?
baggageman		It's about a mile out of town.  Why would you be wanting to go there?
watson		Well, if it's got a view, it might be a nice place for a picnic.
baggageman		It's got a view, right enough -- but it's no place for a picnic.
holmes		Why not?
baggageman		Because it's a cemetary.
watson		 The three boxes. Is that it, Holmes?
holmes		I would think so.
gabrielle		The two small ones -- they must be children's coffins.
minister		... earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust.
gabrielle		It's so sad.
holmes		Sad -- and rather odd. There are no flowers -- and no mourners.
holmes		Morning.
holmes		Working you hard, Dad?
holmes		What happened?
holmes		Local people?
holmes		What do you believe?
watson		Are you trying to tell us it was the monster?
watson		Incredible.
watson		 To think that people still believe in that nonsense. Here we are, living in the Nineteenth Century --
gabrielle		I'm ashamed to admit it -- but I was relieved when he mentioned a father and two boys. It could possibly have anything to do with Emile.
holmes		It would appear not.
watson		However, there still remains the clue of the castle and the red runner -- wherever it may be.
watson		If they're unidentified graves, why are those boys bringing flowers?
holmes		Because it's their brothers who have just been buried.
watson		Their brothers?
holmes		And they're not boys. They're as tall as they'll ever grow. Hand me some pebbles, will you?
watson		Pebbles.
gabrielle		They are -- how do you say it in English? -- nains.
watson		Midgets.
holmes		 Boys with the faces of old men...
watson		I still don't see --
holmes		Would it help if I told you they were acrobats?
watson		Not at all.
holmes		Do you remember a tumbling act -- six brothers -- missing from the circus?
watson		Oh, yes -- that case you turned down -- I completely forgot.
holmes		Some of us are cursed with memories like flypaper. And stuck there is a staggering of miscellaneous date, mostly useless.
gabrielle		 Mr. Holmes, is those are not children, then -- ?
holmes		Quite. The question now is -- who's in the third grave?
watson		Holmes!   She's fainted.
holmes		 Hand me that lantern.
watson		It is Valladon, isn't it?
holmes		Obviously. What is not so obvious is why his wedding ring has turned green --
holmes		-- and why there are three dead canaries in the coffin. White canaries.
manager		You have a lovely view of the loch from here -- as soon as the morning mist rolls away.  If you've a mind to do any sight-seeing, here's a guide to the local points of interest.
holmes		Thank you.
manager		This way, please. I will show you to your room.
watson		I suppose you're putting me in the basement.
manager		No, your room is in the attic.
watson		Good.
manager		It's the privy that's in the basement.
holmes		May I have your wedding ring, please?
holmes		Just as I thought. There is a distinct difference in color between your ring and your husband's.  Stop it!
gabrielle		I'm sorry.
holmes		I know it's not easy. But you must remember that we're that nice couple from London, on Holiday in the Highlands.
gabrielle		 I'll try.
holmes		That's much better.
gabrielle		Thank you.
holmes		 Now, if I may proceed without further interruptions --
watson's voice		 Mr. Ashdown!
watson		Mr. Ashdown!
watson		Holmes! I saw it! I saw it from the attic! It's out there in the lake!
holmes		You saw what?
watson		 The telescope. Where's the telescope?
holmes		What did you see?
watson		The monster!
holmes		The monster?
watson		There it is!    There it is!
watson		Look for yourself.
watson		See it?    See it?
holmes		I see nothing.
watson		Nothing?
watson		It's gone.
holmes		Gone?   Maybe it was never there.
watson		I swear to you -- I saw it -- clear as anything --
holmes		Watson, as you so succinctly put it, we are living in the Nineteenth Century --  He steps back into the room.
watson		Maybe that grave-digger was right -- the swell, and the boat overturning --
holmes		Monsieur Valladon may have been found in the lake -- but he did not drown. He died of asphyxiation.
gabrielle		Asphyxiation.
holmes		 There is only one substance that can turn a copper ring green and bleach the color out of canaries -- chlorine gas.
watson		That may be. But the fact remains that I saw something out there.
holmes		A figment of your imagination. Now let us be logical. The only concrete lead we have is the reference to the castle --  The question is, which castle?
watson		You call yourself logical?   You're the least logical man I know.
holmes		Am I?
watson		How can you say it's a figment of my imagination, when for years you've been saying I have no imagination whatsoever!  He looks at Holmes almost triumphantly.  CUT TO:
watson		We have so far investigated  eight drafty castles -- had our bicycles  attacked by sheep and our ears assaulted  by bagpipes -- and we are exactly where  we started.
holmes		 Would you like some cranberry sauce, dear?
gabrielle		Yes, dear.
holmes		Would you pass the cranberry sauce, please, John?
watson		Yes, dear.
watson		 I say there. Good afternoon.     Remember me?
watson		 Some chaps I met on the train. We had a long conversation -- or rather, I had a long conversation -- because they're not allowed to talk -- Trappists, you know. Just study their Bibles. You'll never guess what the one next to me was reading -- the Book of Jonah -- isn't that odd?
holmes		 Quite.
holmes		What is it, dear? What's the matter?
gabrielle		A bee.  She continues to work the parasol, alternately opening it and partially closing it.  On the bridge von Tirpitz, who is at the rear of the file of monks, glances back toward the lakeshore.  DISSOLVE TO:
watson		Well, I don't think we have to bother with this castle. It's just a pile of rubble.
gabrielle		Then why are they taking precautions?
holmes		Why, indeed?  Let's go.
watson		Go where?
holmes		When rebuffed at the front door, one's only choice is to try the tradesmen's entrance.
guide		Sorry.   No visitors allowed.
holmes		Are you the guide here?
guide		Yes. The castle is closed to the public while work is going on.
holmes		What are they doing?
guide		It's being restored by the Society for the Preservation of Scottish Monuments.
holmes		Too bad. I particularly wanted my wife to see Urquhart Castle. The tower is one of the most interesting examples of -- about 1400, wasn't it?
guide		That's right.
holmes		Let me see -- was it built under James the Second or James the Third?
guide		The Thrid... If you come back next year, we'll be all done here, and I'll be glad to show you around.
holmes		Thank you.
watson		Pleasant sort, isn't he?
holmes		Pleasant, but ignorant. He was off one hundred years and one James.  It's actually 1500 and James the Fourth.
gabrielle		If he's an official guide, shouldn't he know... ?
holmes		If he's an official guide.
holmes		Listen...   Do you hear anything, Watson?
watson		 No. Those birds are making too much of a racket.
holmes		 They're not just birds -- they're our old friends.
watson		Sulphuric acid?
gabrielle		The more we find out the less sense it makes.
holmes		To a graduate chemist it makes a great deal of sense. Sulphuric acid, when exposed to salt-water, produces chlorine gas.  Would you mind clasping your hands, Watson?
watson		 Like this?
holmes		A little lower... Thank you.
holmes		 That tower may be more interesting than I thought -- and not just architecturally.
watson		Holmes, I have a feeling we're redundant here.
watson		We have now observed the castle from the front, from the back, from the side, from land, from water... what now?  Are you planning to spend the night out here?
holmes		If necessary.
watson		You're going to catch your death of cold.  Sorry.
gabrielle		 What's that?
watson		Holmes!
holmes		Quick, Watson. After it!
watson		Holmes, what are we doing?   We should be going away from it.
holmes		Keep rowing, dammit!
holmes		We've lost it.
watson		 At least you admit there's an it, not just a figment of my imagination.
holmes		Quiet.
holmes		 Do you have your stethoscope with you?
watson		Never without it.
watson		What is it?
holmes		I can hear something...
holmes		It's getting closer -- closer --
holmes		Are you all right?
gabrielle		I lost my parasol.
holmes		Where's Watson?
holmes		Watson?
watson		I have come face to   face with man-eating tigers -- I was once   caught in a stampede of wild elephants --   India, you know -- but I wasn't half as   frightened. This beast seems to have   a personal grudge against us.
gabrielle		I just hope it doesn't come back.
holmes		I don't think it will.  Look!
watson		 What strange goings-on.
holmes		Not really. My guess is that the monster, after a hard day's work, has returned home for his supper.
watson		Yes, I know. But would you believe that you can't borrow a decent pair of trousers in this place?
watson		Would you like to confide in us?
watson		Whenever he starts whistling, I know he's getting close to a solution.
holmes		It's nothing new, actually. We've come across this situation before.
watson		We have?   Where?
holmes		At the ballet.
watson		Ballet?
holmes		There's a lake -- and there's a castle -- and there's a swan that isn't really a swan -- or, in this case, a monster that isn't really a monster --
watson		Then what is it?
holmes		What is it indeed that feeds on canary birds and sulphuric acid, and has an engine for a heart?
gabrielle		An engine?
holmes		The stethoscope is a very sensitive instrument, and water is an excellent conductor of sound. There is no doubt that what we are dealing with is a mechanical monster.
watson		Oh?
holmes		Not only is it equipped with an artificial heart, it also has artificial lungs. Judging from the bubbles on the surface of the lake, it uses some form of air pump.
gabrielle		You think my husband was involved in all this?
holmes		Yes, Madame Valladon.    I'm sure of it.
watson		But why would anybody build a mechanical monster? Just to scare people?
holmes		Not very likely.
gabrielle		Why did they try to keep me from finding my husband? And why was he buried anonymously?
holmes		I think I have a pretty good notion of what they're up to -- the Society for the Preservation of Scottish Monuments -- better known as the Diogenes Club.
watson		The Diogenes Club?
holmes		Come in.
manager		Mr. Ashdown, I have a bottle of champagne for you.
holmes		 A bottle of champagne? I didn't order it.
manager		No, indeed. You are to deliver it. These are my instructions.
holmes		Instructions from whom?   Deliver it where?
manager		I wouldn't know, sir. But there's a carriage waiting for you downstairs.
holmes		Are you sure you have the right Mr. Ashdown?
manager		 Quite sure, Mr. Holmes.
holmes		Well, Watson, I would say the curtain is going up on the last act.
watson		I don't like the sound of it.
gabrielle		Please be careful.
watson		You'd better take this with you.
holmes		Who's minding the castle?
guide		You'd better get on.     It's late.
holmes		Where are we going?    Some sort of party?
guide		You won't be disappointed in the guest list.
holmes		Who's the host?
guide		Jonah.
mycroft		Mr. Ashdown, I presume.
holmes		 The red runner, I presume.
mycroft		It's not for you.  May I have the champagne, please?
holmes		 1886 -- not a very good vintage, is it?
mycroft		Mediocre.   But then again, it's not for drinking.
mycroft		Tie it up, will you?
mycroft		In here.
holmes		Interesting -- and educational.
mycroft		Despite my most emphatic warning, you persisted in meddling. It would have served you right if you'd all drowned.
holmes		Sorry to be so unobliging.  E. Valladon... H'mm.
mycroft		 I imagine this belongs to    the pretty lady, and this belongs to    your valet... We found them floating in    the lake.
holmes		Speaking about things floating in the lake --
mycroft		How much do you know -- or think you know?
holmes		I think you're testing some sort of underwater craft -- camouflauged to mislead the gullible. I think it's an experimental model, operated by a crew of midgets. I think it is powered by sulphuric acid batteries, and uses canaries to detect escaping gas... Altogether a strange contraption.
mycroft		Not quite that unique. Right now, four countries are trying to develop what we call a submersible. But none of them could solve the critical problem -- how to stay submerged long enough to make it effective.
holmes		What does the Good Book say? "And Jonah lived in the belly of that fish for three days and three nights."
mycroft		That was our goal. And thanks to Valladon's air-pump, we got a jump on the rest of them. It's a highly complex system of filtration -- so we had a series of trials --
holmes		And at least one error.
mycroft		During a test run in Moray Firth, pressure caused a leak in the hull. Sea water mixed with the acid in the batteries to produce chlorine gas. Before they could reach the surface, Valladon and the crew were dead.
holmes		So you had them buried in unmarked graves, to preserve your secret.
mycroft		It was essential to keep the information from your client.
holmes		You went to all those lengths to prevent Madame Valladon from fiding her husband?
mycroft		Your client isn't Madame Valladon -- it's the Imperial German Government. They were after the Belgian engineer -- or rather, his invention. They knew he was employed by us, but they couldn't find out where -- so they enlisted the best brain in England to help them. You, my dear brother, have been working for the Wilhelmstrasse.
holmes		And Madame Valladon -- what part did she play in all this?
mycroft		Madame Valladon is dead.
holmes		Dead?
mycroft		The Germans disposed of her three weeks ago, in Brussels. This is Gabrielle Valladon.
mycroft		The woman who was brought to your house in the middle of the night -- apparently fished out of the Thames -- and apparently suffering from amnesia -- is, in fact, Ilse von Hoffmanstal, one of their most skillful agents. Am I going too fast for one of the "best brains in England?"
holmes		Go on.
mycroft		They planted her on you quite neatly, I must admit, so that you could lead them to their objective, the air pump. Very much like using a hog to find truffles. And now perhaps you'd care to join me. I am expecting a certain royal personage from Balmoral.
mycroft		Your Majesty.
mycroft		I trust you had a pleasant journey, Ma'am.
queen victoria		It was long and it was tedious. And it had better be worth our while, Mr. Holmes.
mycroft		I can assure you, Ma'am, it will be.
queen victoria		Now what is this curious ship we are supposed to christen?
mycroft		We call it a submersible, Ma'am.    It travels under water.
queen victoria		Under water?    What a fantastic idea.
mycroft		Ma'am, may present some of the scientists who were responsible for this achievement. J.W. Ferguson, naval architect --
first scientist		 Your Majesty.
mycroft		Professor Simpson, our leading expert on hydraulics --
second scientist		 Your Majesty.
mycroft		W.W. Prescott, co-inventor of the revolving periscope --
third scientist		 Your Majesty.
mycroft		And this is Sir Arthur Grisby, our authority on maritime ballistics --
queen victoria		We don't claim to understand any of this. But England is proud of you, gentlemen. To think that man can now observe fish in their native habitat --
mycroft		 Well, not exactly, Ma'am --
queen victoria		-- and underwater plants and coral reefs --  Young man -- what was your contribution to this project?
holmes		I'm afraid it was rather negligible, Your Majesty.
mycroft		 This is my brother, Sherlock, Ma'am.
queen victoria		Ah, yes. Sherlock Holmes. We have been following your exploits with great interest.
holmes		Thank you, Ma'am.
queen victoria		Are you engaged in one of your fascinating cases at the moment?
holmes		In a manner of speaking, Ma'am.
queen victoria		When can we expect to read Dr. Watson's account of the case?
holmes		I hope never, Ma'am. It has not been one of my more successful endeavors.
queen victoria		Ah, the ceremonies are about to begin.  Now where is this underwater ship of yours?
mycroft		 In the dungeon, Ma'am.
queen victoria		The dungeon? What a peculiar place to keep it.  Well, let us get on with it, gentlemen.
mycroft		There she, Ma'am. Her Majesty's Ship Jonah.
queen victoria		And what, may we ask, is the purpose of that hideous gargoyle?
mycroft		It's merely a decoy, Ma'am.
queen victoria		Oh. To frighten away the sharks, we imagine.
mycroft		Something of the sort... The crew will now demonstrate the workings of the submersible.
sailor		Stand to.
queen victoria		Aren't they rather small for sailors?
mycroft		They are. But because of the size of the craft, the Navy made an exception.
queen victoria		They should make it a rule. It's quite fatiguing to pin on all those medals while standing on our toes.
mycroft		This is the main engine, which propels it under water at the rate of two knots -- the stabilizing mechanism -- the multi- stage compressor -- the ballast tank trimmer -- the air-pump which filters and recirculates the air --
queen victoria		How charming.
mycroft		The air pump, Ma'am?
queen victoria		 The canaries. Must make the crew feel at home.
mycroft		Yes, Ma'am. These are the levers for firing the torpedoes, which are accurate up to as much as 120 feet -- the periscope for scanning the surface of the water --
queen victoria		But where is the glass bottom?
mycroft		The what, Ma'am?
queen victoria		The glass bottom.
holmes		You know -- to see the fist --
queen victoria		-- and the plants and the corals --
mycroft		That's not quite the idea, Ma'am. H.M.S. Jonah is being commissioned as a warship.
queen victoria		A warship?  Stop that noise. Stop it!
mycroft		Ma'am, if I may explain --
queen victoria		You had better.
mycroft		The Admiralty regards this craft as the ultimate weapon in naval warfare. It can seek out enemy ships and destroy them -- with these torpedoes -- while remaining completely invisible.
queen victoria		You mean in can fire at other vessels while under water?
mycroft		Yes, Ma'am.
queen victoria		Without any warning?
mycroft		That is correct, Ma'am.
queen victoria		And without showing her colors?
mycroft		Indeed, Ma'am.
queen victoria		Mr. Holmes, we are not amused.  It is unsportsmanlike, it is un-English, and it is in very poor taste. We will have none of it!
mycroft		I beg your pardon, Ma'am?
queen victoria		Sometimes we despair of the state of the world. What will scientists think of next?
mycroft		That's precisely it, Ma'am. At this very moment the Germans under Count von Zeppelin, are experimenting with a dirigible --
queen victoria		A dirigible? And what, pray, is that?
mycroft		A rigid balloon, which could fly over London and drop a bomb on Buckingham Palace. It is being developed at the express orders of Kaiser Wilhelm the Second.
queen victoria		Nonsense. We refuse to believe that our grandson Willie would do a thing like that.
mycroft		We have conclusive proof, Ma'am. Our agent in Friedrichshafen, a man named Ibbetson, actually saw the dirigible, and made a drawing of it. Unfortunately, he was apprehended before he could cross the border.
queen victoria		 Nevertheless, we don't want any part of this beastly invention. Get rid of it! Scuttle it! The sooner the better.
mycroft		May I point out, Ma'am --
queen victoria		And don't concern yourself about that dirigible dropping bombs on us. We shall write a very sharp note to the Kaiser.  Now we wish to return to Balmoral.
holmes		Well, Mycroft, it seems we have both been undone by a woman.  What a shame.
mycroft		Not necessarily. If the Germans want that submersible so badly, why don't we give it to them?
holmes		Give it to them?
mycroft		Invite them aboard for the final journey -- seven hundred feet -- straight down.
holmes		And how are you going to arrange that?
mycroft		I'm rather counting on you to do it. Since you are on such intimate terms with Fraulein von Hoffmanstal.
mycroft		Shall we say goodbye to Her Majesty?
holmes		Sorry about that. But as long as you're up -- what is the German word for castle? Schloss, isn't it?
gabrielle		 I think so.
holmes		And how would you say under the castle? Unter das Schlss? Or die Schloss?
gabrielle		I don't know. My German isn't that good.
holmes		 Come now. It's too late to play cat and mouse.
gabrielle		 Unter dem Schloss.
holmes		Thank you.  I only hope my Morse code is adequate to the occasion.  Keeping well to one side of the open window, he extends the parasol outside, opens it, starts sending out a series of long and short signals.
holmes		Well, it's up to the good monks now. You can consider your part of the mission accomplished, Fraulein Hoffmanstal.
gabrielle		You're all wrong about me.   My name isn't Hoffmanstal.
holmes		It isn't?
gabrielle		It's von Hoffmanstal.
holmes		I stand corrected.
gabrielle		 I suppose once they're in the castle... It must amuse you, Mr. Holmes, Trappists walking into a trap.
holmes		It's more amusing than that. Once in the castle, they will encounter surprisingly little resistance -- it will take but a small bottle of chloroform to overcome the guards.
gabrielle		 You mean you're going to let them have the air-pump?
holmes		Better than that. We're going to let them have the submersible. They will find it with its engines running, all set to go. I assume they're all expert sailors? And since there is a German battleship cruising off the coast of Scotland, I expect they'll try to sail it out of the lock and rendezvous at sea.
gabrielle		Did you say try to?
holmes		I would suggest you get your things together. Mycroft will be here to take you into custody.
gabrielle		I never had you fooled for a moment, did I? You knew right from the beginning -- when the cabbie brought me to Baker Street.
holmes		Let me see -- not quite that soon.
gabrielle		It's so funny. I asked for this assignment, you know. I was scheduled to go to Japan, but I couldn't resist the challenge of coming up against the best. I'm sorry I didn't give you a closer game.
holmes		Close enough.
gabrielle		You're just being kind.   I failed miserably.
holmes		We all have occasional failures. Fortunately, Dr. Watson never writes about mine.
watson		Holmes!   Holmes!
watson		Holmes!
watson		 Holmes, I saw it again -- that thing -- it came from the castle -- it's out there --
holmes		It was out there. Now it's gone.
watson		Gone?
holmes		Forever.   Look for yourself.
watson		A bottle of champagne?... and a Bible?...
holmes		That's all that's left of H.M.S. Jonah.
holmes		It would seem that somebody carelessly loosened the bolts of the submersible. What a fitting end for Trappists -- now they are resting in eternal silence at the bottom of the lake.
watson		 Do you know what he's talking about?
mycroft		Fraulein von Hoffmanstal?
gabrielle		Yes, Mr. Holmes. I'm all ready.
mycroft		If there's one thing I like about the Prussians, it's their punctuality.
gabrielle		If there's one thing I dislike about the British, it's their climate. I understand your jails are quite damp -- and your heating facilities totally inadequate.
mycroft		They are. But you're not going to jail. You're going back to Germany.
gabrielle		Germany?
mycroft		You will be conducted to the Swiss-German border, and be exchanged for one of our agents -- a man named Ibbetson.
gabrielle		Thank you.
mycroft		Don't thank me. Thank my brother.      It was his idea.
mycroft		 Don't you agree, Sherlock?
holmes		 And better than some consulting detectives.
mycroft		 Shall we?
gabrielle		 Gentlemen.
watson		 All right, Holmes -- you don't have to explain anything to me, if you don't want to.
holmes		I appreciate that, Watson.
watson		After all, I'm only your official biographer --
holmes		Anyway, I don't think she'd care to have this story spread all over Strand Magazine.
watson		The public has a right to know these things. If she's a German spy, why should we concern ourselves about her feelings?
watson		If I promised not to write a word about it, would you enlighten me? As your friend -- as your valet --
holmes		Quiet. I'm trying to read a personal message.
watson		A message?
watson		What is she saying?
holmes		 Auf Wiedersehn.
watson		Auf Weider---? The nerve!
holmes		 H'mmm. A letter from the Diogenes Club.
watson		Maybe Mycroft is putting you up for membership.
holmes		If only to have the distinct pleasure of blackballing his brother.
watson		Aren't you going to finish your breakfast?
watson		Holmes -- I'm terribly sorry about this.
holmes		 Where is it, Watson?
holmes		You're getting better.
lestrade		Good morning, Watson.  Just happened to be in the neighborhood, and I thought --
watson		What is it this time, Inspector Lestrade?
lestrade		We've had three rather nasty murders in Whitechapel. All ladies of  easy virtue. You may read something about it -- the newspapers are referring to the killer as Jack the Ripper.
watson		Yes, I think I have.
lestrade		Some of us at Scotland Yard were wondering if perhaps Mr. Holmes would be willing to --
watson		 I'm sorry, Lestrade. But at the moment, Holmes is working on another problem.
lestrade		 Oh... Well, I just thought it was the kind of case that might interest him. I dare say we can solve it without his help.
watson		Oh, I'm sure you will.
watson		Good day, Lestrade.
****Dialogues from script :Producer.txt****

the producers		_____________  by  Mel Brooks
bialystock		Don't forget the checkee.  Can't produce playees without checkees.
bialystock		 "Hold me, touch me', 'hold me, touch me', 'hold me, touch me', where is 'hold me, touch me'?  Ahhh ... here we are.  'Hold me, touch me.'"
bialystock		 Darling!
bialystock		Devil woman.
bialystock		Here I come, ready or not.
bialystock		Ohhhhhh.
bialystock		Come to Papa.  Come to Papa do.
bialystock		I'm gonna get you.
bialystock		Ohhhhhhhh.
bialystock		Rowrrr.
bialystock		Aieeeeyiyiyiyiyi,
bialystock		My hand.  My hand.  I can't turn my hand. 
bialystock		 Enough.  It's better.  Please, Lambchop, it's better.  Stop. You're hurting it again.
bloom		 How do you do.  I mean ... Excuse me ... I mean ...
bialystock		You mean ooops, don't you?  Say ooops and get out.
bloom		I'll wait in the hall ...
bialystock		Oooooooops!
bloom		 Ooooooops.
bialystock		 Wait.  Wait.  We can't play today. I have too many appointments.
bialystock		Thursday.  Thursday.  We'll play Thursday.  We'll play the Contessa and the chauffeur.
bialystock		 Until Thursday, then, Contessa Mio.
bialystock		 All right.  All right.
bialystock		I can't take my eyes off you.  How can I drive when you drive me mad. Mad.
bialystock		 It's always such fun to see you.
bialystock		Until Thursday, then, you bawdy wench.
bialystock		Thursday.  I'll see you Thursday.
bialystock		Good.  Yes.  Thursday.
bialystock		 Like clockwork.
bialystock		Goodbye, my angel ... My angel!  Hey, touch me ... wait!  Hey, uh ... Lucretia, Lucretia!
bialystock		Oh, Angelcake, you forgot to give me the check.  Can't produce a play without money, ha, ha, ha.
bialystock		Oh, it's fine.  Fine.  Good.  Good. Bye.  Bye.
bialystock		 Ta.  Ta.
landlord		That's the law.
bialystock		Murderer!  Thief!  How can you take the last penny out of a man's pocket?
landlord		 I have to ... I'm a landlord!
bialystock		 Oh Lord, hear my plea.  Destroy him. He maketh a blight on the land.
landlord		 Don't pay attention.  He's crazy.
bialystock		 I'll have to make another call.
bialystock		 Have you been there all this time?
bialystock		And did you see and hear everything?
bialystock		Then what do you have to say for yourself?
bloom		Uh ... uh ... ooooooops?
bialystock		 Who are you?  What do you want? Why are you loitering in my hallway? Speak, dummy, speak!  Why don't you speak?
bloom		Scared.  Can't talk.
bialystock		All right.  Get a hold of yourself. Take a deep breath, let it out slowly and tell me who you are.
bialystock		"Caught you with the old lady." Come in, Mr. Tact.
bialystock		So you're an accountant, eh?
bloom		 Yes sir.
bialystock		Then account for yourself!  Do you believe in God?  Do you believe in gold?  Why are you looking up old lady's dresses?  Bit of a pervert, eh?
bloom		Sir, I ...
bialystock		Never mind.  Never mind.  Do the books.  They're in that desk over there.  Top drawer.
bialystock		How dare you condemn me without knowing all the facts.
bloom		But sir, I'm not condem ...
bialystock		Shut up.  I'm having a rhetorical conversation.  How humiliating.  Max Bialystock. Max Bialystock.
bialystock		You know who I used to be?  Max Bialystock!  The King of Broadway! Six shows running at once.  Lunch at Delmonico's.  Two hundred dollar suits.  Look at me.  Look at me now! I'm wearing a cardboard belt!
bialystock		I used to have thousands of investors begging, pleading, to put their money into a Max Bialystock production.
bialystock		Look at my investors now.  Voila!  Hundreds of little old ladies stopping off at Max Bialystock's office to grab a last thrill on the way to the cemetery.
bialystock		You have exactly ten seconds to change that disgusting look of pity into one of enormous respect.  One ... Two ...
bialystock		Do the books!  Do the books!
bloom		 Yes, sir.  Thank you.
bialystock		 Window's so filthy, can't tell if it's day or night out there.
bialystock		 Look at that.  A white Rolls Royce. That's it baby, when you got it, flaunt it.
bloom		 Koff, koff ... ahem, ahem ... harrumph ...
bialystock		I assume you are making those cartoon noises to attract my attention.  Am I correct in my assumption, you fish-faced enemy of the people?
bialystock		I have hurt your feelings.
bialystock		Good, what is it?
bloom		Sir, may I speak to you for a minute?
bialystock		 Go!  You have fifty-eight seconds.
bloom		Well, sir, it seems ...
bialystock		 You have forty-eight seconds left. Hurry.  Hurry.
bloom		 In looking at your books, I've discovered that ...
bialystock		 Twenty-eight seconds, hurry, hurry, you're using up your time.
bloom		Mr. Bialystock, I cannot function under these conditions.
bloom		You're making me extremely nervous.
bialystock		What is that?  A handkerchief?
bloom		It's nothing ... nothing.
bialystock		If it's nothing, why can't I see it?
bloom		 My blanket.  Give me my blue blanket.
bialystock		Here, don't panic.
bloom		 I'm sorry ... I don't like people touching my blue blanket.  It's not important.  It's a minor compulsion. I can deal with it if I want to. It's just that I've had it ever since I was a baby and ... and ... I find it very comforting.
bialystock		 They come here.  They all come here. How do they find me?
bloom		 Mr. Bialystock ...
bialystock		Yes, Prince Mishkin, what can we do for you?
bloom		This is hardly a time for levity. I've discovered a serious error here in the accounts of your last play.
bialystock		Where?  What?
bloom		According to the backer's list you raised $60,000.  But the show you produced only cost fifty-eight thousand.  There's two thousand dollars unaccounted for.
bialystock		I went to a Turkish bath, who cares? The show was a flop.  What difference does it make?
bloom		It makes a great deal of difference. That's fraud.  If they found out, you could go to prison.
bialystock		Why should they find out?  It's only two thousand dollars,  Bloom, do me a favor, move a few decimal points around.  You can do it. You're an accountant.  The word 'count' is part of your title.
bloom		 But that's cheating!
bialystock		It's not cheating ... It's charity. Bloom, look at me ... look at me! I'm drowning.  Other men sail through life.  Bialystock has struck a reef.  Bloom, I'm going under.  I am being sunk by a society that demands success, when all I can offer is failure.  Bloom, I'm reaching out to you.  Don't send me to jail.  Help!  Help!
bloom		Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear, oh dear.
bialystock		 Help!
bloom		All right.  I'll do it.  I'll do it.
bialystock		Thank you, Bloom.  I knew I could con you.
bloom		Oh, it's all right ... wha?
bialystock		Nothing.  Nothing.  Do it.  Do it.
bloom		 Now let's see, two thousand dollars. That isn't much.  I'm sure I can hide it somewhere.  After all, the department of internal revenue isn't interested in a show that flopped.
bialystock		Yes.  Right.  Good thinking.  You figure it out.  I'm tired.  I'm gonna take a little nap.  Wake me if there's a fire.
bloom		Now let's see, if we add these figures, we get ...
bloom		 Heh, heh, heh, amazing.  It's absolutely amazing.  But under the right circumstances, a producer could make more money with a flop than he could with a hit.
bloom		Yes.  Yes.  It's quite possible. If he were certain the show would fail, a man could make a fortune.
bialystock		Yes???
bloom		 Yes, what?
bialystock		What you were saying.  Keep talking.
bloom		What was I saying?
bialystock		You were saying that under the right circumstances, a producer could make more money with a flop than he could with a hit.
bloom		 Yes, it's quite possible.
bialystock		You keep saying that, but you don't tell me how.  How could a producer make more money with a flop than with a hit?
bloom		It's simply a matter of creative accounting.  Let us assume, just for the moment, that you are a dishonest man.
bialystock		Assume away!
bloom		Well, it's very easy.  You simply raise more money than you really need.
bialystock		What do you mean?
bloom		You've done it yourself, only you did it on a very small scale.
bialystock		What did I do?
bloom		You raised two thousand more than you needed to produce your last play.
bialystock		So what?  What did it get me?  I'm wearing a cardboard belt.
bloom		Ahhhhhh!  But that's where you made your error.  You didn't go all the way.  You see, if you were really a bold criminal, you could have raised a million.
bialystock		But the play only cost $60,000 to produce.
bloom		Exactly.  And how long did it run?
bialystock		One night.
bloom		See?  You could have raised a million dollars, put on a sixty thousand dollar flop and kept the rest.
bialystock		But what if the play was a hit?
bloom		Oh, you'd go to jail.  If the play were a hit, you'd have to pay off the backers, and with so many backers there could never be enough profits to go around, get it?
bialystock		Aha, aha, aha, aha, aha, aha!!  So, in order for the scheme to work, we'd have to find a sure fire flop.
bloom		What scheme?
bialystock		What scheme?  Your scheme, you bloody little genius.
bloom		Oh, no.  No.  No.  I meant no scheme.  I merely posed a little, academic accounting theory.  It's just a thought.
bialystock		Bloom, worlds are turned on such thoughts!
bialystock		Don't you see, Bloom.  Darling, Bloom, glorious Bloom, it's so simple.  Step one:  We find the worst play in the world -- a sure flop.  Step two:  I raise a million dollars -- there's a lot of little old ladies in this world.  Step three:  You go back to work on the books.  Phoney lists of backers -- one for the government, one for us. You can do it, Bloom, you're a wizard. 
bialystock		 "Ah, Rio, Rio by the seao, meo, myo, meo ... "
bloom		 Mr. Bialystock.  No.  Wait.  Please. You're holding me too tight.  I'm an honest man.  You don't understand.
bialystock		 No, Bloom, you don't understand. This is fate, this is destiny. There's no avoiding it.
bloom		 Mr. Bialystock, not more than five minutes ago, against my better judgment, I doctored your books. That, sir, is the ultimate extent of my criminal life.
bialystock		OOOOOHH!  OOOOOHH!  OOOOOHH! OOOOOHH!  I WANT THAT MONEY!
bloom		 I've got to get out of here.
bialystock		 You miserable, cowardly, wretched little caterpillar.  Don't you ever want to become a butterfly?  Don't you want to spread your wings and flap your way to glory?
bloom		 You're going to jump on me.
bloom		You're going to jump on me.  I know you're going to jump on me -- like Nero jumped on Poppea.
bialystock		 What???
bloom		 Poppea.  She was his wife.  And she was unfaithful to him.  So he got mad and he jumped on her.  Up and down, up and down, until he squashed her like a bug.  Please don't jump on me.
bialystock		 I'm not going to jump on you!
bloom		 Aaaaaaaaaa!
bialystock		 Will you get a hold on yourself.
bloom		 Don't touch me!  Don't touch me!
bialystock		What are you afraid of?  I'm not going to hurt you!  What's the matter with you?
bloom		I'm hysterical.  I'm having hysterics.  I'm hysterical.  I can't stop.  When I get like this, I can't stop.  I'm hysterical.
bloom		I'm wet!  I'm wet!  I'm hysterical and I'm wet!
bloom		 I'm in pain!  And I'm wet!  And I'm still hysterical!
bloom		No!  No!  Don't hit.  It doesn't help.  It only increases my sense of danger.
bialystock		What can I do?  What can I do? You're getting me hysterical.
bloom		Go away from me.  You frighten me.  Sit over there.
bialystock		 Okay.  I'm way over here.  Is that better?
bloom		It's a little better, but you still look angry.
bialystock		How's this? 
bloom		Good.  Good.  That's nice.  That's very nice.  I think I'm coming out of it now.  Yes.  Yes.  I'm definitely coming out of it.  Thank you for smiling.  It helped a great deal.
bialystock		 Feeling better?
bloom		Much, thank you.  But I am a little lightheaded.  Maybe I should eat something.  Hysterics have a way of severely depleting one's blood sugar, you know.
bialystock		They certainly do.  They certainly do.  Come, let me take you to lunch.
bloom		That's very kind of you, Mr. Bialystock, but I ...
bialystock		 Nonsense, nonsense, my dear boy.  I lowered your blood sugar, but least I could do is raise it a little.
bialystock		And I promise you faithfully, I won't discuss that silly scheme to make a million dollars anymore.
bialystock		Avanti!
bloom		 Thank you.
bialystock		Je vous empris.
bialystock		 My hat.
bloom		I'll get it.
bialystock		Murray, I'm going to lunch.  I took two dollars.
bialystock		I know.  Don't worry.  You'll get it.  You'll get it.
bloom		 I got it, Mr. Bialystock.
bialystock		Thank you, Leo.  And call me Max. You know, I don't let everybody call me Max.  It's only people I really like.
bloom		 Okay ... Max!  And you can call me Leo.
bialystock		I already have.  Come on.
bloom		Oh.
bialystock		Where would you like to eat?
bloom		Well, Max, I don't know, Max.  What do you think, Max?
bialystock		Let me see ... it's such a beautiful day.  Why waste it indoors.  I've got it!  Let's go to Coney Island! We'll lunch at the sea shore.
bloom		Coney Island??
bialystock		What's the matter, Leo?  Don't you like Coney Island?
bloom		I ... I love it.  I haven't been there since I was a kid.  But it's nearly two o'clock.  I really should be getting back to Whitehall and Marks.
bialystock		Nonsense!  As far as Whitehall and Marks are concerned, you're working with Bialystock, right?
bloom		Right.
bialystock		Then stick with Bialystock!
bialystock		 We'll have another round.
custard man		What kind now, sports?
bialystock		What kind now, Leo?
bloom		 I don't know.  Let's see.  We've had chocolate, vanilla, banana - let's go green.
bialystock		 Two pistachios, my good man.
custard man		I'm not your good man, I happen to own this establishment. 
bialystock		Everybody's a big shot.  Well, Leo, are you having a good time?
bloom		I don't know.  I think so.  I feel very strange.
bialystock		Maybe you're happy.
bloom		Yes.  That's it.  Happy.  Well, whatta ya think of that.  Happy.
bloom		 I love it.  I love it.  Get set. We're coming to another turn.
bialystock		 Bloom, it can always be like this. Life can be beautiful.  Let me show you.  Stick with ...
bialystock		Bialysto-o-o-o-ckk.
bialystock		Money is honey.  Money is honey. Money can put soft things next to your skin.  Silk ... satin ... women.
bloom		But if we're caught, we'll go to prison.
bialystock		 You think you're not in prison now? Living in a grey little room. Going to a grey little job.  Leading a grey little life.
bloom		You're right.  You're absolutely right.  I'm a nothing.  I spend my life counting other people's money -- people I'm smarter than, better than.  Where's my share? Where's Leo Bloom's share?  I want, I want, I want, I want everything I've ever seen in the movies!
bloom		 Hey, we're going up.
bialystock		You bet your boots, Leo.  It's Bialystock and Bloom -- on the rise. Upward and onward.  Say, you'll join me.  Nothing can stop us.
bloom		 I'll do it!  By God, I'll do it!
bialystock		This is where we belong, Leo.  On top of the world.  Top of the world!
bialystock		Oiiiiiii!!!
bloom		Ohhhhhhhh!!!
bloom		Max, let's call it a night.  It's two in the morning.  I don't know what I'm reading anymore.
bialystock		Read, read.  We've got to find the worst play ever written.
bialystock		Hmmnn.  "Gregor Samsa awoke one morning to find he had been transformed into a giant cock-a- roach."
bialystock		It's good!!!
bloom		 Wait a minute, I've read this part. I'm reading plays I read this morning.
bloom		Good lord, it's morning.  Let's face it, we'll never find it.  Max, tomorrow's another day. Today's another day.
bialystock		 We'll never find it, eh?  We'll never find it, eh?  Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
bloom		Max, what is it?  What are you doing?  What's happening?
bialystock		I'll tell you what's happening. We've struck gold.  Not fool's gold, but real gold.  The mother lode.  The mother lode.  The mother of them all.
bloom		 You found a flop!
bialystock		A flop, ha!  That's putting it mildly.  A disaster!  A catastrophe! An outrage!  A guaranteed-to-close- in-one-night beauty!
bialystock		This is freedom from want forever. This is a house in the country. This is a Rolls Royce and a Bentley. This is wine, women and song and women.
bloom		 "SPRINGTIME FOR HITLER, A Gay Romp with Adolph and Eva in Berchtesgarten."  Fantastic!
bialystock		It's practically a love letter to Hitler!
bloom		 It won't run a week!
bialystock		Run a week?  Are you kidding?  This play has got to close in the first act.
bloom		Who wrote it?
super		Who do you want?
bloom		 I beg your pardon?
super		Who do you want?  No one gets in the building unless I know who they want ... I'm the concierge.  My husband used to be the concierge. He's dead.  Now I'm the concierge.
bialystock		 We are seeking Mr. Franz Liebkind.
super		Oh, the kraut.  He's on the top floor.  Apartment twenty-three.
bloom		Thank you.
super		But you won't find him there.  He's up on the roof with his birds.  He keeps birds.  Dirty, disgusting, filthy, lice-ridden birds.  You used to be able to sit out on the stoop like a person.  Not anymore. No sir.  Birds!  You get my drift?
bloom		We ... uh ... get your drift. Thank you, Madam.
super		I'm not a madam.  I'm a concierge.
liebkind		 Hilda, look ... look good ... Hilda, you're not looking.  Hilda, if he lives, I know you will find him.
bloom		 He's wearing a German helmet.
bialystock		 Franz Liebkind?
liebkind		 I vas never a member of the Nazi party.  I am not responsible.  I only followed orders.  Who are you?
bialystock		Mr. Liebkind, wait.  You don't understand.
liebkind		Vhy do you persecute me?  My papers are in order.  I love my country.  "Oh, beautiful for spacious skies, For amber vaves of grain."
bialystock		Mr. Liebkind, wait ...
liebkind		 "I'm a Yankee Doodle Dandy ...
bialystock		 Mr. Liebkind, relax, relax, we're not from the government.  We came here to talk to you about your play.
liebkind		My play?  You mean, "Springtime For ... " you know who?
bialystock		Yes.
liebkind		Vat about it?
bialystock		We loved it.  We thought it was a masterpiece.  That's why we're here. We want to produce it on Broadway.
liebkind		You're not, as you Americans say, dragging my leg, are you?
bloom		No, not at all sir, we're quite serious.  We want to produce your play.  I have the contracts right here.
liebkind		 Birds, birds, do you hear?  Otto, Bertz, Heintz, Hans, Wolfgang, do you hear?  Ve are going to clear the Fuhrer's name.  Fly, fly, spread the words.
liebkind		 "Deutchland, Deutchland, uber alles, Uber alles in der velt."
liebkind		 "Deutchland, Deutchland ... "
bloom		 Mr. Liebkind, Mr. Liebkind.
liebkind		Vat?
bloom		People can hear you.
liebkind		OH. 
liebkind		 Mr. Bloom, Mr. Bialystock. Gentleman, with your permission, I would like to propose a toast to the greatest man that ever lived. Let us say his name quietly to ourselves.  The walls have ears.
liebkind		I vas vit him a great deal, you know.
bialystock		With whom?
liebkind		 Vit the Fuhrer, of course.  He liked me.  Out of all the household staff at Berchtesgarten, I vas his favorite.  I vas the only one allowed into his chambers at bedtime.
bialystock		No kidding?
liebkind		Oh, sure.  I used to take him his hot milk and his opium.  Achhh, those were the days.  Vat good times ve had.  Dinner parties vit lovely ladies and gentlemen, singing und dancing.  You know, not many people knew about it, but the Fuhrer vas a terrific dancer.
bialystock		Really, I never dreamed ...
liebkind		 Churchill, vit his cigars and his brandy and his rotten paintings. Couldn't even say Nazi.  He would say Narzis, Narzis.  Ve vere not Narzies, ve vere Nazis.  But let me tell this, and you're getting it straight from the horse, Hitler vas better looking than Churchill, he vas a better dresser than Churchill, had more hair, told funnier jokes, and could dance the pants off Churchill!
bialystock		Here, sign here, Franz Liebkind. And make your dream a reality.
liebkind		Wait.  No.  How do I know I can trust you?  How do I know you vill present this play in the manner and spirit in vhich it vas conceived?
bialystock		We swear it!
liebkind		Not good enough... Vould you be villing to take the Siegfried oath?
bialystock		Yes.  We would!
liebkind		Good.  I will make the preparations.
bloom		 Max, I don't want to take any Siegfried Oath.  I don't know what it is, but I don't want to take it. We might end up in the German Army.
bialystock		Shut up, you idiot.  He's a harmless nut.  Play along with him.  It's almost in the bag.
liebkind		Please to don your helmets.
liebkind		Please to light your candles.
liebkind		Please repeat after me.  I solemnly swear...
liebkind		By the sacred memory...
liebkind		Of Siegfried...
liebkind		Wagner...
liebkind		Nietzche...
liebkind		Bismark...
liebkind		Hindenburg...
liebkind		The Graf Spee...
liebkind		The Blue Max...
liebkind		And last, but not least, Adolph... you know who.
liebkind		 Heil you know who!
liebkind		Good.  Good.  Now ve sign the contract.
bialystock		Good.  Good. 
liebkind		No.  No.  Not in ink.  We'll desecrate the oath.  It must be done in blood.
liebkind		Fingers, please.
liebkind		Ve vill sign vit this sacred qvill taken from the last chicken I served at Berchtesgarten.
bialystock		 What's the matter with you?
bloom		Look, I'm just not wearing this arm band.  I don't care how big the deal is.
bialystock		 Okay, take it off, take it off.
bialystock		 The Blue Gypsy.
bloom		 Why are we going to the Blue Gypsy?!
bialystock		 We are not going to The Blue Gypsy. I am going to The Blue Gypsy.
bialystock		I have a rendez-vous with a lady of some means.  You see dear Bloom, phase one is complete, the play is ours.  We are now entering phase two -- the raising of the money. In the days to come, you will see very little of me, for Bialystock is launching himself into little- old-lady-land.  Avanti!
bialystock		Our play, my love.
bialystock		Think nothing of it, my dear.  A mere trifle.  A mere trifle.  Did you bring your checkbook?
bialystock		Think nothing of it.
bialystock		 Thank you, my dear.
bialystock		Edna, I swear on my life, you don't look a day over sixty-five.
bialystock		Clear the road!  Clear the road!
bialystock		 Heh, heh, heh.  Hah, hah, hah.
bialystock		It's beautiful, Alma, beautiful.  Oi.
bialystock		How's this?
bialystock		 Money is honey, money is honey.
bloom		 Mrs. Sarah Catheart.  She owns 50% of the profits.
bloom		Mrs. Eleanor Biddlecombe.  She also owns 50% of the profits.
bloom		Mrs. Virginia Resnick.  She also owns 50% of the profits.
bloom		Mrs. Alma Wentworth.  She owns 100% of the profits.
bialystock		Leo, what if this play is a hit?
bloom		Then the Department of Justice owns 100% of Bialystock and Bloom.
bialystock		 OI.  I'm depressed.  Leo, do me a favor.  Open the safe.  I want to see the money.
bialystock		 That's better.
bloom		What are you doing?
bialystock		I'm going to buy a toy.  I worked very, very hard and I think I deserve a toy.
bloom		 A toy?
bloom		That's a toy?
bialystock		Yes.  She's an adult, educational toy made in Sweden for children over fifty.
bialystock		Stop looking at me like that. She's not an indulgence.  She happens to be our new receptionist. She goes with our new surroundings.
bialystock		Ulla, I'd like you to meet my partner and associate, Mr. Leo Bloom.
ulla		Got dag pa dig.
bloom		How do you do.  Have you gone mad?  A receptionist that can't speak English.  What will people say?
bialystock		They'll say, "Oooh, wah, wah, wah, ooh, ooh."
bloom		What is she gonna do here?
bialystock		I'll show you.  Ulla, go to work.
ulla		Ya, sur.
bialystock		See, it helps the day go by.  Ulla, okay.  Okay.
bialystock		Go to desk.  Answer telephone.
bialystock		Bialystock and Bloom.  Bialystock and Bloom.
ulla		 Bialystock and Blum.  Bialystock and Blum.  Bialystock and Blum. Got dag pa dig.  Bialystock and Blum.
bialystock		 Hey, Blum, have a cigar.
bloom		No thanks.
bloom		Max, maybe...
bloom		What's that?
bialystock		Nothing.  Nothing.  Go on.
ulla		 Min Bialystock.
bialystock		Nice girl.
bloom		Max, as I was saying, maybe we should go easy on the spending.  I mean these offices and everything.
bialystock		Why?  Take it when you can get it! Flaunt it, baby, flaunt it!
bloom		But if something should... God forbid... go wrong, at least we could give them some of their money back.  It would look better in court.
bialystock		Stop talking like that, you white mouse!  Nothing's going to go wrong. As a matter of fact, today I have taken steps to insure total disaster. At two o'clock we have an appointment with none other than Roger De Bris.
bloom		 Roger De Bris.  Roger De Bris.  Oh yes, the director.  Is he good... I mean bad?
bialystock		Roger De Bris is the worst director that ever lived.
bloom		Do you think he'll take the job?
bialystock		Only if we ask him.
bialystock		Come on.  We'd better hurry.  We're late.
bialystock		Call chauffeur.  Get car.
ulla		 Good.  Good.  We go Motel.
bialystock		No.  We go. 
ulla		You, Blum go Motel.
bialystock		No.  No Motel.  Get car.  Get car.
ulla		 Get car.  Get car.
bialystock		Very nice girl.
bialystock		 Thank you, Rudolfo.
bialystock		 Now don't let anything he does or says upset you.  He's a little peculiar.
bloom		What do you mean?
carmen		Yesssssss?
bialystock		I am Max Bialystock.  This is my associate, Mr. Bloom.  We have an appointment with Mr. De Bris.
carmen		Ah, yes, you're expected.  Please come in.
carmen		How do you do.  I'm Carmen Giya, Mr. De Bris' private secretary.  Would you be so kind as to remove your shoes.
carmen		White, white, white is the color of our carpets.
carmen		 Why don't you... Oh, take anything. Please follow me.
de bris		 I'll never get into this damned thing.
carmen		 We're not alone.
de bris		Ah, Messers Bialystock and Bloom, I presume.  Ha, ha, ha, forgive the pun.
bloom		 What pun?
bialystock		 It's good to see you again, Roger. Did you get a chance to read "Springtime For Hitler?"
de bris		Remarkable.  Remarkable.  A stunning piece of work.
bialystock		Shhhhhh. 
de bris		 I think it's a very important play. I, for one, never realized that the Third Reich meant Germany.  I mean it's drenched with historical goodies like that.
de bris		Oh, dear, you're staring at my dress.  I should explain.  I'm going to the Choreographer's Ball tonight.  There's a prize for the best costume.
carmen		 We always win.
de bris		 I'm not so sure about tonight.  I'm supposed to be the Grand Duchess -- I think I look more like Tugboat Annie.  What do you think?
de bris		No be cruel.  Be brutal.  Be brutal. Because heaven knows they will. Well, what do you think, Mr. Bloom?
bloom		 Well, it's... uh... it's nice and long... I mean, it's... uh... uh... where do you keep your wallet?
bialystock		 It's gorgeous.  Absolutely gorgeous. You couldn't have picked a better color.  It brings out your eyes. Let's face it, Roger, that dress is you.
de bris		 Do you really think it brings out my eyes?
carmen		 We can't tell a thing without your wig.  As far as I'm concerned, you're only half-dressed.
de bris		Ummmm.  Well, if you're so worried about the wig, get it, o' wicked witch of the west.
bialystock		 Quick, light his cigarette.  He likes you.
de bris		Didn't I meet you on a summer cruise?
bloom		I've... I've... never been on a cruise.
de bris		Oh, quel dommage.
carmen		 Oh, I see we're getting acquainted.
de bris		How would you like to go back to teasing hair, big mouth?
bialystock		Roger, do you mind if we talk a little business?
de bris		Please, please, that's what we're here for.  Be careful, that hurt.
bialystock		I think this would be a marvelous opportunity for you, Roger.  Up to now, you've always been associated with musicals, and...
de bris		Yes.  Dopey show-girls in gooey gowns.  Two-three-kick-turn!  Turn- turn-kick-turn!  It's enough to make you throw up!  At last a chance to do straight drama!  To deal with conflict, with inner truth.  Roger De Bris presents history.  Of course, I think we should add a little music.  That whole third act has got to go. They're losing the war.  It's too depressing.  We'll have to put something in there.  Aaahghhh!  I see it!  A line of beautiful girls, dressed as Storm Troopers, black patent leather boots, all marching together... Two-three-kick-turn!  Turn-turn- kick-turn!
bialystock		That's genius.  That's genius. Roger, I think I speak for Mr. Bloom and myself when I say that you're the only man in the world who can do justice to SPRINGTIME FOR HITLER.
de bris		 Wait a minute.  This is a very big decision.  It might effect the course of my entire life.  I'll have to think about it.  I'll do it.
bialystock		Congratulations.
de bris		 Get on the phone.  Send out a casting call.  Call every agent in town.  I want to see everybody. Everybody.
bialystock		 Roger, what about that one?  The fat Hitler on the right?
de bris		I don't know.  I rather fancy that one.
bialystock		Not bad.  Not bad.  What do you think, Franz?
de bris		 Oh, this is bedlam, bedlam.  We must have some order.
de bris		 Will all the dancing Hitlers please wait in the wings.  We're only taking the singing Hitlers.
carmen		Arthur Packard.
de bris		Hello, Arthur.  Tell us something about yourself.
arthur packard		 I was the lead tenor of the Albuquerque Opera Company for two seasons.  I just finished a road tour of STUDENT PRINCE.  And last season I was up for the lead in the Broadway production of Circus Man.
de bris		What happened?
arthur packard		I didn't get it.
de bris		What are you going to sing for us Arthur?
arthur packard		The soliloquy from CAROUSEL.
arthur packard		 My boy Bill will be strong and as tall as a...
de bris		Thank you.
de bris		Next please.
carmen		Jason Green.
de bris		Well, Jason, what have you been doing lately?
jason green		 For the last sixteen years, I've been touring with "Naughty Marietta."
de bris		Good.  And what are you going to sing for us, Jason?
jason green		"Stout-hearted Men."
jason green		 "Give me some men Who are stout-hearted men Who will fight for the right they adore."
de bris		 Thaaank you.
bald hitler		 "Show me some men Who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon show you ten thousand more."
de bris		 Thaaank you.
italian hitler		 "Shoulder to shoulder and bolder and bolder They grow as they march to the war."
de bris		 Thaaank you.
delicate hitler		 "There is nothing in this world can halt or mar our plan."
de bris		 Thaank you.
de bris		 Thaaank you.
carmen		Well, that's it.
bloom		I think that's enough Hitlers for one day.  Maybe we'll get lucky tomorrow.
bialystock		You think out of all those Hitlers you could find just one...
liebkind		It was the same thing in Germany. We looked for years before we found the right Hitler.
lsd		Hey, man.
carmen		I beg your pardon.
lsd		Is this where they're auditioning Boomerang?
carmen		 No, I'm afraid you've wandered into the wrong theatre.
lsd		 Man, freaked out again.
bialystock		 Wait!  This is Boomerang.  This is Boomerang.
de bris		 What are you saying?
bialystock		Let's hear him.  What have we got to lose?  What's your name?
lsd		Lorenzo Saint DuBois.  But everybody calls me LSD.
de bris		What have you done, LSD?
lsd		Six months, I'm out on probation, but it's cool now, baby.
de bris		I mean in show business.
lsd		Oh, in show business.  Well, let's put it this way, my next job will be my debut.
de bris		What do you do best?
lsd		Hey, man, I can't do that here, that's what they put me away for.
de bris		Oh, sing.  Sing!
lsd		Hey, baby, that's where they put me, Sing-Sing.  How'd you know that, you been up?
de bris		 Sing a song!  Just sing a song!
lsd		Here's a little thing I think you're going to see on the charts any day.  I wrote it last night in my sleep.  It's a Hindu Zen Folk Rock Ballad.
bialystock		 That's our Hitler!
liebkind		 Vaaaat???
bialystock		 Franz, don't you see, Hitler was a man of his time.  This is a man of his time.
liebkind		But he has long hair!
bialystock		Don't look at the outside, look at the inside.  It's the inner Hitler we're after.  The young beautiful Hitler, who danced his way to glory.
liebkind		I don't know.  I don't know.
de bris		 Could be an exciting piece of off- beat casting.  Of course, we'd have to do something about that coiffure.
liebkind		But he's so crazy, he's so sloppy, he's so... so... American!
bialystock		Franz, trust me.  I promise I won't let you down.
liebkind		All right, but remember, if you damage the Fuhrer's reputation, I kill you.
bialystock		 Bite your tongue.
bialystock		I hope you lose your bloomers.
bialystock		God Forbid.
liebkind		 Gentlemen, this is a very momentous moment.
liebkind		 Good luck.
liebkind		 Tonight, New York.  Tomorrow, the world!
liebkind		 No!!
bialystock		So much for Nutsy Fagin.
bloom		 Here comes the Times Drama Critic.
bialystock		Watch closely, as Bialystock drives the last nail into the coffin.
bialystock		Always delighted to see the gentlemen of the press.  There you are, sir.  Two on the aisle, compliments of the management. 
drama critic		 Thank you.  Here, wait a minute. There seems to be some mistake. There's a hundred dollar bill wrapped around these tickets.
bialystock		 It's no mistake.  Enjoy the show.
drama critic		 Mr. Bialystock, just what do you think you're doing?
bialystock		I'm bribing you.  And if you play ball, there's a lot more where that came from.
drama critic		 I... I... I... How dare he!  I've never been so insulted in my life! The gall of the man!  The incredible gall of the man!  I'll fix his wagon.
drama critic		 No!!
bialystock		 Heh, heh, heh.  He'll kill us.
bloom		Come on, they've started the overture.
bloom		 Well, Max, this is it!!!
bloom		 I'm sorry, I'm a little nervous.
bialystock		Relax, in two hours our worries will be over.
entire chorus		 "Springtime for Hitler," etc.
bialystock		Ahhhhh, it's going better than I expected.
woman		 Well, talk about bad taste.
bialystock		 Come, let us repair to the bar across the street.  I don't want to be caught here during intermission. We'll be stoned to death.
entire chorus		 So Springtime for Hitler, Is Springtime for Goering, Is Springtime for Goebbels, Is Springtime for Himmler, Is Springtime for you and me!!
eva		Er liebt mir.  Er liebt mir nicht. Er liebt mir.  Er liebt mir nicht.
eva		 Du liebt mir nicht!
lsd		 I lieb you baby, I lieb you.  You know that.
eva		If you lieb me, why are you leaving me?
lsd		Hey, man, I can't spend all my time with you.  I took an oath, baby, Deutschland uber alles.
man		That's Hitler?  I get it!  It's a put-on.
woman		Hey, Harry, he's funny.
bialystock		Here's to the one and only performance of "Springtime for Hitler."
bialystock		Innkeeper, innkeeper, another round of drinks here.  As a matter of fact, a round of drinks for everybody in the place!
bloom		Just think, yesterday I was a meaningless little accountant -- and today, I am the producer of a Broadway flop!
bialystock		 To failure!
bloom		To failure!
eva		If the Duke of Windsor could give up the Throne of England for the woman he loved, why can't you?
lsd		It's different.  I'm a tyrant, baby.
liebkind		 Baby, why does he keep saying baby? I didn't write baby.  The Fuhrer never said baby.  Vat is it vit this baby?
liebkind		You shut up!  I'm the author. You're just the audience.  I outrank you.
bialystock		Bartender, bartender, another drink for myself and my associate, Mr. Bloom.  And don't forget our good- natured inebriate over there.
drunk		Eternally grateful.  Sincerely yours, Oliver Wendell Drunk.
drunk		 A toast!
bloom		To what?
drunk		 To... toast!  I love toast.
bialystock		 "By the light,
bialystock		"Of the silvery moon,
bialystock		"I want to croon,
bialystock		"To my honey I'll croon,
bialystock		"Honeymoon,
bialystock		"Keep a shining in...
bialystock		Intermission!  Quick, hide your face.  They'll tear us to pieces.
crowd		 "Scotch on the rocks," "Bourbon and soda." "Two martinis." "Whiskey sour."
woman		 Well, so far that's about the funniest thing I've ever seen on Broadway.
woman's escort		Never laughed so much in my life.
man		 Hysterical, absolutely hysterical.
man's friend		I thought I'd split my sides.
bialystock		Take it easy, don't panic.  There are a lot of plays on this street. They are not necessarily talking about "Springtime For Hitler."
husband		 Honey, I never in a million years thought I'd ever love a show called "Springtime For Hitler."
bialystock		 Smasheroo.  Smasheroo.
bialystock		 Got to think... Got to think... Got to think... Got to think... Got to think...
bloom		Mrs. Cathcart -- 50% Mrs. Biddlecombe -- 50% Mrs. Wentworth -- 50% Mrs. Resnick -- 100%
drunk		 "By the light... By the light, by the light... Of the silvery...
bialystock		Get away from me, you drunken bum!
drunk		 Fairweather friend!
bialystock		Maybe it's not true!
bloom		 No way out.  No way out.
bialystock		Bloom, Bloom, maybe it's not true.
bloom		 No way out.  No way out.  What?  Who?
bialystock		Why don't we go over to the theatre and see what's really happening? After all, we've only heard from a small portion of the audience. Let's hear what the majority thinks.
bloom		 The majority.  The majority.  Yes. Let's hear from the majority.
bloom		I don't want to go in.
bialystock		Come, we have to.
general		 We are falling back on all fronts. Our soldiers are retreating.
lsd		No good, baby, no good.  You heard my orders.  Nobody retreats. Attack!  Attack!
general		Who can we attack?  They're all too big.
lsd		 Hey, man, let's stomp Switzerland!
general		We can't... we keep our money there!
liebkind		Baby, again with that baby.  There must be no more babies.
lsd		Where's Goebbels?  Where's my little Joe?
general		 Send for Goebbels.
lsd		He's the only cat left that still grooves me.
goebbels		Heil, baby!  I just finished the morning propaganda broadcasts.
lsd		What did you tell the people?
goebbels		I told them we invaded England.
lsd		Hey, baby, that's good!  How'd we come out?
goebbels		We won.
lsd		Groovy!
liebkind		Bring down the curtain!  Bring down the curtain!
lsd		Goebbels, you're the only one...
liebkind		I am the author of this play.  You are the victims of a hoax.  These are not my words.  The Fuhrer never said baby.  The Fuhrer was sweet, the Fuhrer was kind, the Fuhrer was good.
stage manager		 Get that curtain up.
liebkind		NO!  No!  The curtain must not go up!
liebkind		Stop!  Stop!
liebkind		We have been betrayed!  I will return!  I will returnnnnn...
ulla		We make love?
bialystock		No!  No!  We don't make love.  Go to work.
bialystock		"Congratulations.  It's the biggest hit on Broadway."
bialystock		"Congratulations.  Hitler will run forever."
bialystock		 Congratulations!
bialystock		Congratulations!
bialystock		Congratulations!
bialystock		Congratulations!
de bris		 Congratulations!  Have you seen the reviews?  Have you seen the lines at the box office?  It's a torrent, it's an avalanche, it's the biggest hit on Broadway!
bialystock		You lousy fruit.  You've ruined me!
de bris		 Help!  Help!  He's crazy!  He's going to kill me.  Call the police! Call the police!  Help, help, murder, murder, rape, rape!!!
bialystock		 How could this happen?  I was so careful.  I picked the wrong play, the wrong director, the wrong cast. Where did I go right?  We forgot one important, Bloom.  Adolf Hitler always drew a crowd.
bialystock		What are you doing?
bloom		 Don't try to stop me.  I've made up my mind.
bialystock		What are you doing with those books? Where are you going?
bloom		 I'm turning myself in.  It's the only way.  I'm going to cooperate with the authorities.  They'll reduce my sentence and then there's time off for good behavior.  And maybe I'll get a job in the prison library.  So long.
bialystock		 Leo, take it easy.  Relax, you're overwrought.  You don't know what you're doing.  You're acting out of panic... GIMME THOSE BOOKS!
bloom		I never should have listened to you.
bialystock		I never should have listened to you.
bloom		Ohhhhhhhhh, how I hate you.
bialystock		Double.  Double.  Double.
bialystock		 Haaaaa!  Haaaaa!  Haaaaa!
bloom		 FAT!  FAT!  FAT!  FAT!  FAT!
liebkind		 I am betrayed!
liebkind		 You have broken the Siegfried Oath. You must die.
liebkind		This is no good.  I'm not killing you.  Don't you understand, you have broken the Siegfried Oath. You must die.  Vill you cooperate!!!
ulla		I hear noise.  You call?
ulla		Where are you?
ulla		Ahhh.  I see you.  You like something?  Coffee?
bialystock		Coffee.  Yes.  That's a good idea.  Why don't you ask the gentleman with the gun... The gentleman who is shooting at us... and trying to kill us... what he will have.
ulla		 You like coffee?
liebkind		Yes, please.  Black.  Two sugars.
ulla		Three coffees.  Two regular.  One black... two sugars.
liebkind		And now ve must resume hostilities. Are you coming out from behind that desk or not?
bialystock		Not.
liebkind		Cowards, miserable cringing cowards. Clinging to life like baby butterflies.  Vatch, vatch and remember.  Franz Liebkind vill show you how to die like a man!
liebkind		 Soon I vill be vit mine Fuhrer, und Goering, und Goebbels, and Himmler. I'm coming boys!
liebkind		 Boy, vhen things go wrong!
liebkind		I'm a failure.  I'm a failure.  I'm a failure.
bialystock		Five o'clock.  Killed a whole day playing hide-and-seek with a crazy Kraut.
liebkind		 I'm not crazy.  I'm inept.
bloom		There, there.
liebkind		 Vhere?  Vhere?... oh...
bialystock		 Liebkind, have I ever steered you wrong?
liebkind		Always.
bialystock		Never mind.  Listen.  Every night people are laughing at your beloved Fuhrer.  Why?
liebkind		It's that LSD und his verdampter babies!...
bialystock		 Here.  Buy bullets.  Kill.  Kill them all!
bloom		What???
bialystock		 Shut up.
liebkind		Yes.  The actors.  I must destroy the actors.
bloom		Stop!  Stop!  This is insanity.
bloom		 Have you lost your mind?  What are you talking about?  Kill the actors. You can't kill the actors -- they're not animals, they're human beings!
bialystock		They are?  Have you ever eaten with one?  Liebkind, go!  Kill!
bloom		Liebkind, no!
bialystock		 What are you doing?  We're trapped. It's either the show or us.  There's no way out.  What can we do, blow up the theatre?
liebkind		 Dynamite.
liebkind		Fuse cap.
liebkind		Fuse.
liebkind		Thank you.
liebkind		Gut.  Now for the master connection.
liebkind		Gut.  Now vhere's the other fuse?
bloom		There it is.
liebkind		 Pick it up and bring it here, please.
bloom		Okay.
liebkind		 Where are you going vit the light?
bloom		I need it.  How'm I gonna find the fuse?
liebkind		Oh, ve come vit you.  All for one and all in the light.
liebkind		Now ve take the two fuse leads, attach them to the terminals of the conductor and ve're in business.
bialystock		 You mean out of business.  Heh, heh.
bloom		Max, I...
bialystock		 What is it?
bloom		Well, I... Well, it's just that... I'm sorry I called you fat, fat, fat.
bialystock		 Ahhhhhh.  Leo, Leo, Leo.
liebkind		 Plus to minus.  Negative to positive. Male to...
bialystock		Come on.  Let's get going.
liebkind		Qviet.  Qviet  This is very important.
liebkind		Vait a minute.  Vait a minute. Male to male?  Male to female? Female to male?  Female to female? Vait a minute.  In people, male to female.  But electricity is strange. It's male to male.
liebkind		Sehr gut.  Slow fuse, please.
liebkind		Thank you.
liebkind		 Now ve take the slow fuse.  Tie one end to the master connection and the other ve attach to the detonator.
liebkind		Come, ve go to the detonator.
liebkind		Vait a minute.  Are you sure this is slow fuse?  It feels like qvick fuse.  Shine your light on it.
liebkind		I don't know.  I don't know.  The markings are so similar.  Qvick fuse or slow fuse?
liebkind		I must find out.  It is critical.
liebkind		Let's face it.  That was dumb.
liebkind		Boys, vhere is you?
liebkind		 Dot vas the qvick one.
bialystock		We assumed that.
liebkind		Here.  You see.  This is the slow fuse.  It is much wider.  It has more resistance, more density. Therefore, it burns slower.
bialystock		You mean you had the slow fuse in your pocket all the time and you forgot to put it on?
liebkind		Yes.  Amazing isn't it?
bialystock		You stupid kraut!
liebkind		Vhy do you always call me kraut? Kraut is cabbage!  Do ve call you hot dogs?  Ve call you Yanks not franks!
bialystock		All right.  Finish the job.  Let's get outta here.
liebkind		Und now for the final connection.
bialystock		Wait.  I'll check to see if the coast is clear.
bialystock		The coast is clear!
liebkind		Good.  Get down.
liebkind		Goodbye, my foolish fancy.  Goodbye, my misbegotten child.  Goodbye, my tortured testament of twisted truths.
bialystock		Do it!  Do it!
liebkind		I can't.  I can't do it.  It's a demon.  It's a gargoyle, it's a monster... but it's still my child.
bialystock		 Nothing.
liebkind		Here is gut... of course, of course. In electricity, it's always male to female.  But with people, it's not always so.  Come ve must go back.
bialystock		Do you need us?
liebkind		Of course I need you.  It's dark in there.
bloom		Okay, okay.  Let's not waste time.
drunk		 "Honeymoon, keep a shinin' in June,"
drunk		"your silvery beams, Will light love's dreams,"  What the heck is that?  A bicycle pump? Naaah.  Lemme see.  Could it be? Good grief, it's Eli Whitney's cotton gin... Naaah.  Aahh, I know what it is.
drunk		Shine 'em up!
drunk		 "Sa-an Fra-ancisco, open your golden gates, Don't let a stranger wait...
liebkind		 Male to male?  Male to female?
judge		Has the jury reached a verdict?
foreman		We have, your honor.
judge		 How does the jury find?
foreman		We find the defendants incredibly guilty.
judge		Will the defendants please rise and approach the bench.
judge		Do the defendants have anything to say in their behalf before the court pronounces sentence?
bloom		I would like to say a word, sir, not on my behalf, but in behalf of my partner, Max Bialystock.
judge		Proceed.
bloom		Thank you, your honor.  Max Bialystock is a very selfish man.
bialystock		 Don't help me.
bloom		He's a liar and a cheat and a scoundrel.  He's taken money from little old ladies.  He's talked people into doing things they never would have dreamed of.  Especially me.  But who has he really hurt? 
judge		 Order.  Order.
bialystock		And may I humbly add, your honor, that we have learned our lesson and we'll never do it again.
judge		I will take that into consideration. The defendants shall serve not more than five and not less than two years in the State Penitentiary. 
world premiere		979344 and 979345 PRESENT "PRISONERS OF LOVE" STARRING 778629 and CO-STARRING 440123 INVEST NOW!!!! HUGE PROFITS GUARANTEED!!!
bloom		Twenty-five dollars.  Here's your receipt.  You now own 28% of "Prisoners of Love."
bialystock		 Higher, you animals, higher!  We open Saturday night!  Kick!  Kick! Two-three-kick-turn!  Two-three- kick-turn!  Okay, let's hear it!
prisoners		 "We're prisoners of love, etc."
****Dialogues from script :Program.txt****

written by		 David S. Ward & Aaron Latham
revised tan 11/23/92		SHOOTING DRAFT
winters		 No, we're just a young team on the verge. We'll be back in a major bowl next year.
alvin		Good throw, Joe. It was there.
joe		So was half their team.  Shit, another Christmas at home.
alvin		Next year, man. Next year we sell out. Next year we dominate.
coach winters		 Stop wastin' my time talkin' to you guys for a start.
chancellor wilson		I'm concerned about our Program. It's always been a source of pride to our students and alumni, but two straight so-so seasons are having a damaging effect on our fund-raising, both public and private.
winters		 Then stop raising the entrance requirements on me. We never could have gotten Alvin Mack in here under the new guidelines.
chancellor wilson		As Chancellor, my first responsibility is to the academic interests of this University.
wilson		At a time when we're committed to a 400 million dollar building program, alumni donations are down 15% the last two years. Because they've also voiced their displeasure to their legislators, we can expect a corresponding drop in state funds.
howard		The Athletic Fund is suffering too. Season tickets sales are off, merchandising's slow...
winters		You layin' all this at my door? There's been a recession on.
chancellor wilson		Yes, but the heaviest drop has been from the big donors, the 100,000 dollar club. These people are recession proof. They sit in my box every game, and they're much more generous when we're ranked and going to bowl games. Two of them, as you know, are on the Board of Regents, including the Chairman.
winters		What are you trying to say to me, Grant? After 12 years, my job's in jeopardy?
chancellor wilson		I'm not prepared to discuss your job right now; I just want you to be aware of the situation. The alumni and the legislature are unhappy and they vote with their checkbooks. I don't pretend to be an expert on football, Sam, and I'll deny that this conversation ever took place, but I do know we need to win next year.
clayton		 Tickets are in your coat. Itinerary and player profiles are in your briefcase. We got a 9:00am tomorrow in Philly with this kid Darnell Jefferson.
winters		Looks like I've lost weight.
clayton		This kid's the gamebreaker we've been lookin' for.
winters		Darnell, you have the potential to start for us as a freshman. That 108 yard kickoff return you made against Taft? One of the greatest runs I've ever seen a high school player make. Now, Michigan is set at tailback for two years. You won't play till you're a junior. With Joe here gettin' you the ball, runnin' 28 Thunder right, you'll be All-American with us as a Sophomore.
reverend wallace		Yes, but I'm really more concerned with Darnell's education. He came here late. He's got some catching up to do.
winters		Believe me, education is the first priority in our program. That's why all the players are smarter than me. After all, a football coach is smart enough to understand the game, but dumb enough to think it's important.
alvin's mother		It's real pretty, Alvin.
alvin		When I turn pro, I'll get you the house to go with it.
louanne		 It's real nice, Dad.
winters		I knew you'de like it, Lou. Merry Christmas. Put some fresh flowers on your Mom's grave for me. I'll be home in a couple days.
frank		Have another Vitamin I, Joey. Didn't think we'de see you here this Christmas, little brother.
joe		You won't next year.
joe's father		 Yeh, well we won't rent your place on the couch.
darnell		You're from E.S.U?
girl's voice		Yeh. I was just sittin' here by the fire doin' my homework, and decided to give you a call. See how you're doin'.
autumn		Coach Winters has been telling me about you. I'm looking forward to seeing you when you come to visit. I'll be your guide. You are coming to visit aren't you?
darnell		You got that right.
darnell		Thanks for showin' me around, Autumn. I don't meet too many females like you. You got a lotta class. Real efficacious. Maybe I'll check you out in the fall.
autumn		I hope so, Darnell.
autumn		Good night.
darnell		Now you know where I'm going and what we're indubitably going to be.
joe		Hey, Darnell, Welcome to E.S.U.
darnell		 Yeh, good to see you guys. What happened to the band and the dancin' honies?
joe		Regular students don't come back for two weeks yet. Not that they woulda been here. Now that you've enrolled, you're just another wormshit freshman.
joe		Here's your room. If you need anything call the hall manager.
joe		See ya later. Freshman Placement test tomorrow at nine. McKinnley Hall.
bobby		Uh, oh, the Lead Dog is back. There goes my cover of the media guide.
joe		Hey, Bobby, Lats, how ya doin? This is Darnell Jefferson, freshman tailback.
darnell		How ya' doin'?
bobby		I was hopin' you'de have rolled your bike or somethin'. Nothin' serious, just enough to keep you out for the season.
joe		 Shit, Lats, you look buffed, man. You put on some weight?
lattimer		35 lbs. Spent the summer in the gym. I'm tired of watchin' you guys play. I intend to start this year.
bud		You get any bigger, you can play offense.
lattimer		Yeh, but don't I have to get dumber too?
bud		You still seein' Louanne?
bobby		Yeh. Now and then, when the tide rises. Don't want her to think this is some kind've exclusive deal.
joe		Coach finds out you're nailin' his daughter, you'll be playin' dorm ball.
bobby		I'll bail before that. Besides, this is what he gets for not startin' me.
alvin		Hey, man, you seen this?
alvin		 You must be some very bad-ass motherfucker.
joe		Jesus...
lattimer		What? You didn't know?
joe		I knew there was gonna be an article. I didn't know it was gonna be on the cover.
alvin		Shit, we do all the work. You get all the pub. Too bad we're not allowed to hit you in practice. Be fun to kick the shit out of a Heisman Trophy Candidate.
joe		I guess you'll have to wait till we get to the pros.
alvin		 Beer boy, get me some.
darnell		Are you serious?
alvin		Does it look like I'm serious?
lattimer		Listen to this. "E.S.U. has a solid nucleus returning, but the Timberwolves, coming off two disappointing seasons, will only go as far as the strong right arm of Heisman Candidate Joe Kane will take them." That right, Joe? You gonna lead us to the promised land?
joe		I'm gonna lead... but can you follow?
bud		What are we doin', Joe?
joe		 There's something I wanta try. Gotta wake up our Mojo. Start settin' the tone for the season.
bud		This is not a good time to be settin' anything. You're in no shape...
bud		Joe, c'mon Joe, don't be an asshole. Joe! God-damnit, why's he always doin' shit like this? Coach'll fuckin' kill me. Alvin, go get him, will ya?
alvin		Hell no, you go get his ass. Crazy motherfucker.
bud		Fuck this shit.
bud		C'mon, Joe, that's enough. Let's get the hell outa here. What if somebody drifts or crosses the line to pass?
joe		What's the matter, Bud? Can't you follow?
bud		 God-damnit, god-damnit. Shit.
alvin		Startin' to look like a loaf of Wonder bread out there.
bobby		They're makin' us look like pussies, ya know. Standin' here suckin' our thumbs.
lattimer		 Yeh, and there's nobody from the Defense out there.
alvin		What are you lookin' at? You think you're bad?
louanne		 Bobby, be careful, o.k? Please, be careful.
darnell		This guy do this kinda shit a lot? They never mentioned this in recruiting.
darnell		I don't know... I left a lot of 'em blank.
joe		Don't worry, you'll do all right. Lotta people don't finish.
darnell		 Yeh.
joe		What are you doin' with the trophy?
darnell		Coach Winters asked me to bring it to the meeting. I don't know what for.
darnell		I'll see ya at the meeting.  Take this for me, will ya?
darnell		Hey, Autumn, hold up! What're you doing here? I thought students didn't come back for two weeks.
autumn		 I came back early to see a friend.
darnel		You're looking fresh, Autumn. A package of pulchritudiness. What about getting together later tonight? Maybe get a pizza? They got pizza in this town don't they?
autumn		I can't tonight.
darnell		How about tomorrow night?
autumn		I don't think it's a real good idea for us to see each other, Darnell.
darnell		What's the matter? I'm not good enough for you all of a sudden? Too young, is that it? I'm not, ya know. They held me back a year.
autumn		No, it's not that... I've got a boyfriend.
darnell		Did you have this boyfriend when you showed me around?
autumn		 Yes.
darnell		Yeah, well, it didn't seem to bother you then. I'm willing to overlook it now.
autumn		I was mad at him.
darnell		For what?
autumn		I caught him with another girl. A white girl.
darnell		And you're still with this nigger?
autumn		Look, I got to get going, Darnell. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to lead you on. I'm glad you came here.
darnell		Wait a minute. I can at least walk with you, can't I? Nothin' wrong with that.
autumn		I'm in a hurry.
darnell		I can keep up. I run the forty in four-four.
ray		Hey, Autumn --
autumn		Hi, Ray. This is...
darnell		 Tailback.
ray		 Starting tailback.
darnell		I know. That's why they recruited me.
ray		The two guys they recruited before you are handing out Gatorade now.  Better start strengthening your wrist.
darnell		We'll see.  Give my best to Miss Lilly.
ray		 What the hell is that supposed to mean?
winters		Good to see you again, gentlemen.  Jefferson, either take off the earring or put on a dress.
winters		I wanna talk a little about what we're trying to do here. There are many highly respected people who feel football is about preparation for life.
winters		These people are full of shit. You see, football is not like life.  It's better. More exciting, more intense, more fun. In life, people are always wondering how they measure up; whether they're getting ahead or fallin' behind. In football, you know. Every week you get a chance to show what you're made of, a chance to demonstrate the physical and personal qualities that all those poor bastards who can't play this game are left to agonize about.
winters		Last year we didn't make enough of those chances. Last year everyone felt we let the school down. Fuck the school. We let ourselves down.  We let down a great tradition, a 120- year-old Line of Champions.
winters		Any football program worth the name is a special brotherhood, an elite corps of warriors, a select group of knights. That first time our starting unit takes the field, the first time we huddle up; that's our inner circle, that's our Round Table. If I were an upperclassman, I'd be real nervous about my seat, cause we got some very talented new-comers this year. Guys who want a place at the Table.  This is the trophy one of our freshman, Darnell Jefferson, won as a Pennsylvania State High School First Team All-American. You know what this says to me?
winters		Not a god-damn thing.
winters		 Whatever any of you have done before is out the window. We're startin' over. Ground zero. The Table is empty. Are you ready?
coach clayton		 He's too pumped up. Tryin' to win the damn Heisman on every throw. I'm not sure he's ready for all this hype.
coach humes		Little late to be worryin' about that. If we don't follow up the Sports Illustrated cover with something, it'll look like we didn't believe in our own player.
winters		Don't worry, Joe's a tough kid. He'll be allright.
griffen		Hey, nice writhing, Jefferson. You got all the moves.
winters		 Allright, move it up. Let's go, 15 yards, run the next play.
winters		Cut the necktie tackle horseshit. You think you're in some kinda highlight reel? He left you huggin' air. Target his guts. Drive right through his abdomen. I wanta see snot bubbles in his nose. I wanta see shit in his underwear.
winters		You injured, Jefferson, or just hurt?
darnell		 What do you mean?
winters		If you're hurt, you can still play. If you're injured you can't. Are you hurt or are you injured?
darnell		I think I'm just hurt.
winters		O.k., then get up.
winters		Nice run. Think what it coulda done for us if we still had the ball.  If anybody, but you, returns this ball to me, you'll wish you'de never been born.
winters		I see tackling, but I don't see hitting. I see effort, but I don't see ferocity. What do you think, they're gonna motivate themselves? Football's just a game to most of these kids. This is our program, our livelihood. It's our job to make them care as much about it as we do. Make them hate me if you have to. It'll bring them together, give them a focus. So get off your butts and put the fear of God in these guys.
clayton		Shit, Lattimer's an animal all of a sudden. Benchin' 450. He's gotta be on somethin'.
humes		What, steroids? Why do you always think my guys are juicin'?
clayton		I don't know... he's on the punt team for three years, then gains 35 pounds of rip in one summer and an attitude to go with it.
winters		We're not doctors, gentlemen. The NCAA has testing programs for this. Let's let them worry about it.  Besides, it's not that hard to put on 35 pounds in a summer, if you really hit the gym.
bud		What you got tonight?
cafeteria worker		Choice of three entrees. Shrimp, lasagna, T-bone steak.
bud		Tough choice. I'll take all three.
cafeteria worker		What a surprise.
darnell		When do they give ya the scores on that Placement Test?
lattimer		Who cares? I flunked it three times, before I got in.
alvin		Long as you're in the program, they'll get you through. Maybe not with a degree, but they'll keep you eligible. Just don't do nothin' embarrassing they can't cover you for.
lattimer		Hell, they even give Alvin copies of his tests in advance. He sells 'em for a hundred bucks a pop to people in his class. 'Course he's gotta have somebody read 'em to him.
alvin		Fuck you, doughboy. I can read. See that shoe?  That says Nike.
darnell		I still don't wanna flunk that test. I wanta get a degree.
alvin		What do you think, nigger? You're gonna be on the Supreme Court? All you need to know is how to sign an N.F.L. contract.
winters		What's the matter with you guys? You're supposed to be a team. Winning depends on thinking and acting and going to war together. But you don't even eat like a team. You eat like two teams. A white one and a black one. What do I have to do? Make out a seating chart? Now get up. Move around. Mix it up. Now!
darnell		 Hi there. Darnell Jefferson. I'm a young black man.
joe		Hey, glad to meet ya. Joe Kane, Caucasian. So what doya think a that new Garth Brooks album?
darnell		I love that motherfucker.
winters		That's more like it.
joe		How ya' doin'?
camille		Fine.
joe		Little late to be workin' out, isn't it?
camille		 Only time I could get in here when the football team wasn't usin' it.
joe		 Well, if it wasn't for the football team, might not be a weight room to use. You tryin' to firm up a little, or what?
camille		 Don't need to firm up. I'm strengthening my knee. Had arthroscopic surgery.
joe		Had my knee scoped once too. When you're finished here, maybe we could get a yogurt, compare scars.
camille		Sorry, I don't date football players. They're all full of themselves. I saw you on the cover of Sports Illustrated, so you're probably worse than most.
joe		That's real open minded of you. So you won't consider doin' anything with me?
camille		No.
joe		Well at least tell me what happened to your knee. What'd you do? Fall outa your convertible?
camille		You know, there's maybe one thing I'd do with you.
joe		What's that?
camille		Tennis. I'll play tennis with you.
joe		Tennis. You mean now? It's raining.
camille		Thanks for the game, Heisman. You took it really well.
joe		What's this Heisman crap?
joe		I didn't say anything about being a Heisman candidate. I don't go around strokin' myself about it. So what's this shit you're givin' me?
camille		I... I'm sorry... I just figured you were probably kissin' yourself in the mirror every morning.
joe		You figured wrong.
camille		So what do you want, an apology? I just gave you one.
joe		I want a rematch.
camille		A rematch?
joe		Some other sport. I took my beating. You owe me one. Either that or we go out.
camille		I'll think about it.
bobby		Real good date, Joe. Remind me to take her out.
advisor smith		Darnell, I've reviewed your placement test and I'm afraid you failed to meet our entrance requirements in two areas.
darnell		What does that mean? I can't play football?
advisor smith		No. It means you're going to have to take some remedial classes, what we call "zero level" courses.
advisor smith		You won't get college credit for them, but they will help you prepare to take the Placement Test again at the end of the quarter. If you pass at that time you'll be able to officially enter the university and take college level courses. You'll still be able to take an American History survey course, but it won't count on your record until you pass the Placement Test. But first things first. To start, I'm approving a tutor for you.
darnell		A tutor? I don't need no tutor.
advisor smith		Any tutor. And yes you do.
howard		I think both Joe and the university are best served by a straightforward Heisman campaign. Nothing too gimmicky.
braver		We've compiled a mailing list of around 1300 opinion makers; newspapers, football writers, and sports anchors. First we send them a packet on Joe and his achievements. Bio, stats, plus human interest stuff; commitment to academics, charity work, etc. Then we update it each week with a postcard. Heisman voters hate opening envelopes.
joe		I haven't really done any charity work...
braver		You're gonna start. We've got some things lined up.
nichols		Unfortunately, because we weren't in the top 20 last year, we only have one network T.V. game to give Joe national exposure. Although it's a good one; Michigan. But we'll also be taping all our other games and buying satellite time. That way we can produce our own highlight package and interview pieces and send them out to T.V. stations all over the country for their sportscasts.
winters		Any questions, Joe?
joe		Ah, no... I just... you really think I got a shot to win this?
winters		Hell, yes. Plus it's a good thing for the program. Publicizes the school, gives a boost to recruiting, and it's a great thing for you. Jumps up your draft position, the size of your first contract, everything. It's a hell of an opportunity.
nichols		All you gotta do is back it up on the field, and we have no doubts about that, cause we know "Kane is Able."
camille		Hello...
joe		This is Joe Kane. What did you decide?
camille		 It's 3:00 in the morning.
joe		I wanta know what you decided.
camille		I don't know... I couldn't think of any other sports I could beat you at.
joe		Then I'll pick you up tonight at
camille		What?
darnell		Hey, Autumn.
autumn		Hi, Darnell. What are you doin here?
darnell		My advisor says I need a tutor. Ya know, just to get me over a couple rough spots.  I saw your name on this list. I figured if you couldn't keep my attention, nobody could.
autumn		I'm sorry, Darnell, but I've already been assigned. You're gonna have to find somebody else. I'm tutoring Scott Sherman.
darnell		Not anymore. I asked Coach Winters to switch us.
autumn		Coach Winters wouldn't do that.
darnell		Yeh he would. I'm a bigger prospect than Sherman.  He's a lineman on the scout team.
darnell		C'mon Autumn, you could teach me some real erudition.
autumn		 Will you stop using those big words. It sounds ridiculous.
darnell		 What doya mean? I'm improvin' myself. I learn a new word out of the dictionary every day. Mendacious, pejorative, antithetical, commensurate...
autumn		And you don't ever use them right. Pretending to be smart is not the same as being educated. Or erudite. It's just a con. And it makes you sound stupid, no matter how big a prospect you are.
darnell		O.K... even more reason for you to be my tutor. You already taught me something.
camille		We goin' on that?
joe		Yeh. I thought we might take a ride.
camille		I promised my dad I'd never get on one of those.
joe		What are you, one of these trust- fund princesses? It's fine for me to play a game I don't know, but I ask you to try somethin' different and you hide behind your daddy.
camille		 All right. But we go slow. No cowboy stuff.
joe		This speed, o.k.?
camille		Yeh, fine.
joe		Good.
camille		Slow down, damnit. Joe... Joe!
camille		 Joe, look out!!!
camille		How could you do that, you stupid punk? It isn't funny, god-dammit, you coulda killed us! You're crazy, you know that...
joe		Take it easy. I've done that a hundred times. No big deal.
camille		Oh, yeh? Then why are you shaking?
joe		 I don't know... I guess cause I've never done it with someone else on the bike.
camille		You just wanted to scare me. Are you happy now?
joe		Yeh, pretty much. And the scream was even better than I thought it'd be. Every dog within hearing distance wants to mate with you now.
camille		You come here a lot?
joe		Now and then. Why?
camille		It's not exactly a campus favorite. This is almost like hidin' out.
joe		I like places where nobody knows me. This too low-rent for you?
camille		No, my dad owned a place like this.
joe		Your dad? You mean he owned a chain of these?
camille		Not everybody with a Southern accent has their own plantation. My dad could never afford to send me here. I learned to play tennis on public courts. Mighta been able to play pro someday, if I hadn't hurt my knee.
joe		So you're just a scholarship jock like me.
camille		Yeh. You disappointed?
joe		No, I've just never been out with a jock before.
camille		Is that what we're doin' here? Goin' out?
joe		I don't know. What doya think?
camille		I think you're crazy for jeopardizing your scholarship and a pro future by jumping motorcycles off of highways.
joe		Just tryin' to keep my edge, Camille. The other guys look to me cause they think I'll do anything. I lose that, I'm just another guy, and we all get our ass kicked.
camille		I don't know, Joe. You scare me.
winters		The keys.
winters		I told you, as long as you're in this program, you don't take unnecessary risks off the field. A man in contention for the Heisman Trophy should be able to remember that.
autumn		O.K., using the things we worked on yesterday, I want you to write a two or three page essay on some aspect of your life. Something other than football.
darnell		Like what?
autumn		Your father, maybe. You could write about your dad.
darnell		Don't know that much about him. He was off in Detroit workin' in a car plant when I was born. Got laid off, tried to rob a jewelry store to get us some money. He died in prison. Some kinda heart problem.
autumn		How about your mother?
darnell		She was always workin'. Usually two jobs. Comin' home one night she stopped to get us some root beer. Got caught in a gang crossfire. Shot three times... died on the way to the hospital. You want me to write about that?
autumn		 No...
darnell		Good, 'cause none of it's true.
autumn		 Jesus Christ, Darnell what a terrible thing to do to somebody. That's not funny. That's sick.
darnell		Had ya goin', didn't I?
autumn		 No you didn't. You just... How could you make up somethin' like that?
darnell		 Sounded more interesting than the truth. My mom took a vacation to Chicago when I was 12. Never came back. Don't know who my dad was.
autumn		Who took care of you?
darnell		I started hangin' with the J.B.M., gang-bangin'... Did some time in the Hall. Reverand Wallace saw me playin' football on a juvenile probation team. Took me in, got me into high school. Only reason they accepted me was 'cause I could play football. Sorta like here. Football saved my life. I'd be nowhere without football.
autumn		Well, then... maybe you could write about football this once.
darnell		Yeh, o.k... thanks.  I've seen a lotta shitty things in my life, Autumn. That's why I know when I see somethin' good.
tutor		Let's review the chapter I read you yesterday. Which two city states fought in the Punic Wars?
alvin		I dunno. Detroit and Buffalo.
tutor		C'mon, Alvin. You're gonna be tested on this.
winters		Okay, Alvin, this is Mississippi State's offensive set. 2nd and 2 on
alvin		Eagle. Zipper. Hero. Unless the set back shifts into the I.
winters		Good. 
alvin		Okie. Thunder. Lion.
winters		What's your assignment?
alvin		Kill the Quarterback.  Kill everybody.
darnell		Sorry... I lost my football.
lattimer		Yes!! Starting defense. Place at the table. Whooo!! Yes!!
winters		N.C.A.A. is gonna test half the team before the game Saturday. Make sure Lattimer knows about it.
winters		As the veteran players know, we have Pride Night every year before our opening game. It's a chance to get to know each other better, share some thoughts, and bring us closer together as a team. So to start off, I'd like each player to tell the others in his group what he likes best about football and then what he's most proud of off the field. I've asked some of the seniors to lead it off. Gentlemen.
lattimer		I don't know... It's the battle. The goin' to war with the other guys. Hangin' together.
darnell		The thing I'm most proud of myself for?
joe		The great thing about football is you can lose yourself in it.
alvin		The best thing is when you dominate. That feeling when you hit a guy real good, really stick him, and you hear that little moan.
harvey		Welcome everybody to the Wolf Den where the E.S.U. Timberwolves, led by Heisman candidate Joe Kane, open their season against the tough Mississippi State Bulldogs under head coach Jackie Sherrill.
alvin		All right, let's get evil. 60 minutes, balls out. Let's open a can of kick- ass. Kill 'em all. Let the paramedics sort 'em out.
alvin		Hey, 23, don't think I don't recognize you, you little fuck.
alvin		Hey, pay attention when I'm talkin' to you, nigger. You're the guy that shot my mother aren't you?
tailback		What?
alvin		You were tryin' to steal her fuckin' car weren't you, cocksucker.
tailback		Shut up. I never heard of your mother.
darnell		 What's Alvin saying to that guy?
joe		Just gettin' himself pumped up.
darnell		He wasn't pumped up already?
alvin		 Thought I'd never find you didn't ya? But I got you now nigger, and I'm gonna kill you motherfucker. I'm gonna bust your guts open and watch you die.
winters		Atta baby, Alvin, heads up. Big pop, Steve, way to stick 'em.  O.K. Joe, let's go up top. Take it to 'em right away.
joe		 O.K. let's put the women and children to bed, and go lookin' for dinner. Don't let em up. 51 Strike, Orange
bud lite		Bali Hi, will call you, anytime, any day. Here am I, your special island...
black tackle		Shut up, snowflake. You think you're in the school play?
bud lite		No, Bali Hi, the endzone is calling. And the highway runs right over your ass.
black tackle		Bullshit, you're gonna be my bitch, baby. You gonna be my punk bitch.
bud lite		 So long, farewell, auf Wiedersehen, good night, I hate to go and leave this pretty sight.
winters		Jefferson! In for Griffen.
referee		Excuse me, son, but we're gonna need that football for another couple minutes.
winters		Guess we'll be on the payroll for another week.
bud lite		Good game, man. Really enjoyed it.
black tackle		Yeh, you're a strong motherfucker. Shitty singer though.
alumnus		Good to see ya in there, Darnell. Way to hold on to that pigskin.
darnell		Hey, some guy just gave me a 50 dollar bill.
alvin		Don't worry, you'll get 5 or 6 hundred once you're startin', depending on how you play.
darnell		But we're not supposed to get any are we?
alvin		Hey, man, you can't live on $500 a month scholarship money. And the NC double assholes won't let us have jobs, so you take your money where you can get it.  I'll keep it for you, till you see the light. Shit, they oughta be payin' us anyway. Athletic Department gets 3 million just for goin' to a bowl game.
joe		 I really have no idea. That's up to you guys.
berman		Now let's turn to our Heisman watch.  We begin with Sports Illustrated cover boy Joe Kane of E.S.U. who led his team to an impressive victory this afternoon. Well, if Joe continues to raise Kane, he may well be Able to dust off a large space on his trophy shelf. Although the real test will come in four weeks against Michigan and their Heisman hopeful, Tim Waymen.
bud lite		I don't know, I never seem to make out at things like this.
bobby		You don't make out anywhere. Or did you finally break the snatch barrier this summer?
bud lite		Fuck you, Bobby.  Excuse me, Louanne.
alvin		Forget it, nigger. No chance for you there.
darnell		Why not?
alvin		Griffin's goin' to medical school. She likes that light-skinned respectable shit. You're just her ghetto toy.
darnell		 Can I have this one?
ray		I don't think so.
darnell		What are you so worried about? You haven't lost your starting job yet.
autumn		 Just one.
autumn		 Take it easy, Darnell. This isn't a good time to push things. You're putting me in an awkward position.
darnell		Yeh, well, I got a little encouragement along the way.
autumn		That kiss... it was just... a kiss.
darnell		Bullshit. You meant it. I wouldn't be standing here now, everybody thinkin' I'm a stupid asshole, if I didn't know you meant it. I wanna see you, Autumn. Not in study hall. Not like your student. Like somebody to be taken seriously.
autumn		I do take you seriously, Darnell, but I'm still with Ray. I can't just go paradin' around town.
darnell		I don't need to go paradin'. We'll go someplace different. Someplace nobody'll see us.
autumn		God, why am I even considering this?
ray		 All caught up on your arithmetic?
darnell		Yeh, you only gained 37 yards on 12 carries.
joe		 Just what we need, a little team unity.
ray		I'm gettin' a little sick of this asshole, Autumn. I don't like you hangin' out with him. It's embarrassing.
autumn		I don't hang out with him. I tutor him.
ray		Then have him get another tutor.
autumn		I can't do that. I made a commitment to help him pass his qualifying exam. I can't bail out on him now.
ray		What the hell difference does it makes? They'll grease him through no matter what he does. Nobody's ever gonna see his graduation. Don't tell me you're falling for this guy. He's just another gang-banger with speed.
autumn		I just said I wanted to help him. What are you more afraid of, losing your girl or your position?
ray		Maybe you oughta think about what you're in danger of losing.
autumn		Maybe I will.
joe		Maybe she's out with some guy.
bud		Who? Camille? I don't think she's the type to screw around on ya. Shoot ya, maybe...
joe		It wouldn't be screwing around. It's not like we're going together.
autumn		You're right, nobody would ever see us here.
darnell		Yes, I figure the key is to go places only white people go. Next time we'll go bowling.
darnell		Plus I saw this in Rocky. I never believed a guy who was supposed to be an athlete would skate that bad, but now I know.
autumn		Thanks, that was fun, sort of.
darnell		You were pretty good for the first time.
autumn		Well, it's not really my first time. My dad took me skating once.
darnell		He used to play ball for E.S.U., didn't he?
autumn		Yeah, how'd you know that?
darnell		I saw his picture on the Wall of Fame. You got his eyes. Luckily, you didn't get his thighs.
darnell		Make sure you mean it this time.
joe		What are you doin' here?
camille		Couldn't sleep.
joe		I was just sweatin' out some of the beer.
joe		I didn't go home with her. I thought about it... but I didn't.
camille		You drink too much.
joe		Yeh.
camille		Why didn't you?
joe		Why didn't I what?
camille		Go home with her?
joe		I don't know... I guess I figured maybe there was somethin' goin' on between you and me.
camille		Then why'd you pick her up in the first place?
joe		I was drunk... I needed some company.
camille		 Company? Yeh, I can see you havin' a real far-ranging discussion with Sheri.
joe		I mean, ya know, physical company... I was... I just needed to pounce on somebody I guess.
camille		Why can't you pounce on me? Aren't I good enough to pounce on?
joe		Well, you're more conservative... classier... you're not that kinda girl...
camille		 How do you know? You've never slept with me.
camille		What makes you think she's such a great ride?  Why would you go to her, when you have me?
joe		I didn't know I had you.
camille		 Well you do.
camille		 You shoulda looked for me at the library, or don't you ever go there?
joe		 I go there. I got a 3.2 in Political Science. I just don't go there on Saturday nights.
camille		 I have a paper due Monday. What'de she do? Sit on your lap or just give you the nail-me stare?
joe		Shut up, Camille.
louanne		Bobby Collins.
clayton		Coach, we, ah... got a problem with Bobby Collins.
winters		Yeh...
clayton		He talked... a friend... into taking a test for him and got caught. They had a new T.A. in there...
winters		What's the penalty?
clayton		Well, the rules say automatic expulsion for both of them.
winters		Fortunately, we've got friends on the Board of Regents. I think we can beat this if we really go to bat for him. We got Mack off when he turned in that other guys term paper.  But what kinda idiot would do something like that?
clayton		Well, I guess Bobby figured he was gonna flunk...
winters		I don't mean Bobby. I mean what kinda guy would be dumb enough to take a test for him?
clayton		Uh, well... it wasn't a guy.
winters		A girl? Typical Collins. He must have banged her until she couldn't think straight. Who was it?
clayton		 It was... Louanne.
winters		Jesus, Louanne, how could you be so stupid?
louanne		I... he was behind, he needed help. I'm sorry. I just...
winters		Sorry! You're sorry! You've destroyed my credibility at the University, my authority with the players... Christ, it looks like I'm running a dirty program. And Collins of all people! What the hell's the matter with you, Louanne?
louanne		 I don't know... I thought he... loved me...
winters		Loved you? He loves anything that winks back, the little rat bastard. And what are you gonna do for school now? I use my influence to get you back in, it'll stink to high hell. The press'll crucify me.
louanne		I'll get in someplace.
winters		God, Louanne, I told you to stay away from my players. That was my cardinal rule, stay away from the damn players...
louanne		They've always been good enough for you. Good enough to devote your life to. Why aren't they good enough for me? Or are they too good?
winters		You're changing the subject, Louanne. We're talkin' about you breakin' the rules.
louanne		Didn't you ever break the rules just a little? Didn't you tell me once that 90 per cent of the schools obey the NCAA rules, and the other 10 per cent go to bowl games? Was that just a joke?
autumn		You seen this? You got a D on your math test.
darnell		Yeh, I kinda figured that. I had some trouble on this last part...
autumn		We went over that last week, Darnell. What is this time we spend in here? Just a joke to you? I don't even think you've been listening to me.
darnell		I've been listening to you, baby...
autumn		Don't call me baby. I thought you wanted to learn. But if all you wanta do is fake your way through, then get another tutor to waste time with.
darnell		C'mon, Autumn, we just had a good time, and now you're gettin' all nuts behind this. It's just one test.
autumn		So far, it's the only test. I want you to study this whole chapter. By yourself, without me here. When I come back, we'll discuss it. Be ready to do problems based on it.
darnell		Whatever you say, Teach.  I don't wish to be cast in a pejorative light, so I'm dedicating myself to achieving on a level more commensurate with my abilities.
bud lite		Coach'd probably shoot ya lower.
winters		You all played a fine game on Saturday. Take the day off.
winters		C'mon in, Collins.
bobby		Listen, Coach, I just want you to know I'm really sorry about this whole thing with Louanne. I was real glad to hear she's gonna be goin' to junior college here...
winters		 Shut up.
winters		I could easily take your case to the Board of Regents. You've had no prior infractions and I could argue that you were under abnormal pressure.  But I won't. You embarrassed me, you embarrassed my family, you embarrassed the program. As of now, you are no longer a member of this university or it's football team. Clean out your locker.
swann		 We ready, Jerry? O.K., let's mark it.
swann		Joe, this game is being billed as a potential "Heisman Shootout". Did you feel any added pressure this week...
joe		Well, ya know, you try to block it out, but it's basically impossible... Everybody seems to be talkin' about it, all the newspapers, the interviews...
braver		Hold it! Hold it!
swann		What?! What's the problem?
braver		What you're saying is true, of course, but I don't think it's the message you want to send.
braver		This game is nationally televised, so most Heisman voters will be watching. I think a more casual approach is better. Modest, controlled, casual.
swann		 Joe, this game is being billed as a potential "Heisman Shootout."
joe		No, I don't really think too much about that kinda thing.
camille		Your parents comin' to the game tomorrow?
joe		My mom's dead. My dad has never seen me play.
camille		Why not?
joe		Guess he's not that interested in football.
camille		But you're one of the best players in the country.
joe		 He's just not into it, o.k.?
camille		 What's goin' on, Joe? You ask me out here, like you wanta talk about somethin', then you don't say anything. You worried about tomorrow?
joe		No... I'm worried about the days after that. I just. I don't know... I feel like tomorrow's gonna be my last game. I want to stay up, make the time go slow.
camille		Why would it be your last game? You afraid of getting hurt?
joe		No, that'd be a relief. Then, at least, I wouldn't be a failure.
camille		Joe, why are you thinking like this? Why would you be a failure? You're having a great year, you're a Heisman Trophy candidate, you got millions of dollars waiting for you in the pros.
joe		 How do you know what's waiting for me? You don't know me at all.
camille		 I don't know you? How can you say that?
joe		Because you wouldn't be here now if you did. You only know the guy that's supposed to make millions in the pros.
camille		Is that what you think? That I'm with you for the money?
joe		Why else?
camille		Fuck you, Joe.  I don't give a shit about your money. I don't even give a shit about football. And you know what? Maybe you're right, maybe I don't know you.
camille		Joe! Joe! My god, Joe, what are you doing? No! No!
camille		God Joe, oh god, are you allright?
joe		 Yeh, just got some dirt in my teeth. Guess you've really seen the dark side now, huh? You should've gotten out while you had the chance. Before it all goes to hell.
camille		I don't wanta get out, damnit. What's wrong Joe? Why would it all go to hell?
joe		I'm a Kane, Camille. That's all it takes. We're cut out to be drunks and fuck-ups. We never live up to expectations. It's in our blood. My dad, brothers, uncles -- we all drink and sooner or later we all fuck up. My dad went the longest. Waited till he was playin' triple A ball, before he hit the wall. Sometimes I feel like I'm just waiting for my turn. The better I do, the closer it gets.
camille		You're not like them, you can beat all that. You can stop drinking, you can break the chain.
joe		If I gave up that, I wouldn't be much of a football player. And if I wasn't a football player, what would I be?
camille		You'de still be Joe. And I'd still love you.
joe		Just don't say I never warned you.
zabriskie		4:29 to go and it's been a great one. Two undefeated teams goin' after each other. Michigan up by four, 24- 20, but the lead has changed hands three times, and you get the feeling that whoever has the ball last is gonna win it.
doctor		How many fingers am I holding up?
joe		Four.
alvin		Hey, powderpuff. You're the white boy that ratted my brother out. Sent him to jail, cocksucker. Ran off with the fuckin' money. Left the blood to do the time, huh?
alvin		Yeh, you're the little bastard. Account of you, my bros' datin' his cell mate. You hear me, powderpuff? Gonna make you pay. You gonna be my cellmate now. You gonna have 250 lbs. of pissed-off nigger up your ass.
doctor		You're vision's back to normal.
winters		You think you can go?
joe		Yeh, I'm fine. Just a little headache.  O.K. Offense, let's get it back.
alvin		Damn tough to scare that little white boy. Either his momma dropped him on his head, or the motherfucker is deaf.
winters		Jefferson, in for Griffen.
joe		O.K., time to put the women and children to bed, and go looking for dinner.
zabriskie		Well, it was everything we expected it to be. Fine performances on both sides of the field.
darnell		Hey, Autumn.
autumn		Hi, Darnell.
darnell		Is this your dad?
autumn		Yes...
darnell		How do you do, Mr. Haley. I'm Darnell Jefferson.
darnell		Thank you. We'll get 'em next year.
autumn		 Ah, I tutor him...
darnell		Math and English.
darnell		Yeh, I know...
darnell		 Good idea. Well, I gotta get goin'. Nice to meet you Mr. Haley.
darnell		See you around, Autumn.
ray		Hey, Mr. Haley. Good to see you.
bud lite		 Anybody seen Joe?
alvin		Not yet. Probably out with Camille. Haven't seen Darnell either.
leslie		I think we better get back downstairs.
lattimer		No, Leslie, we're just getting to know each other.
leslie		 No, I think...
lattimer		C'mon Leslie, you didn't come up here to stop now.
lattimer		What were you doin'? Leadin' me on?
lattimer		 Get outa here!
bud		This is it, man. No more 'roids. This shit has gotta stop.
winters		Hello, yeh... What?!
clayton		It looks like this will blow over. The girl's father is a big booster, contributed a lotta money. So he said they won't go to the press.
winters		He said that? The father?
clayton		Yeh, he's not exactly happy about all this, but he doesn't wanta hurt the program.
winters		We're still gonna have to suspend Lattimer.
humes		What for? There aren't any charges. Nobody outside the program knows about this.
winters		He's outa control, Lyle. We can't ignore this anymore. I don't know what pisses me off more -- that he's juicin' or that he's doin' such a shitty job of hidin' it.
humes		He's never tested positive. If we suspend him without proof, he could sue us for jeopardizing his draft status, his pro career.
winters		Yeh, but we can't sit and wait till he kills somebody. I hate to lose him as much as you do, but we gotta clean him up before he does somethin' that lands the whole program on probation. Plus, we have to take some action or the girl's dad is gonna start havin' second thoughts. I don't care how many checks he's written.
clayton		So what do we do?
winters		Bring him down here.
lattimer		Three games? Why so many?
winters		You oughta be grateful I didn't suspend you for the whole year.
lattimer		What are you gonna give as the reason?
winters		We'll say you've got a hamstring pull.
lattimer		 Thank you, Coach.
winters		Don't thank me. During those three weeks, you better kick the roids, cause when you come back I'm gonna personally test you before every game. No N.C.A.A. shit either. I'm gonna watch the piss go into the bottle. You got that?
lattimer		 Yes, sir.
winters		Start practicing your limp.
joe		Coupla real college heroes, huh? Tearin' up the town.
darnell		First time I ever lost a girl and a game on the same day. Guess I never really had the girl.
boyfriend		You know that guy?
debbi		Not really...
boyfriend		Then why you smilin' at him?
debbi		I don't know... he looks like that E.S.U. quarterback guy. Joe, what's his name?
boyfriend		So what? So you go and smile at him?
boyfriend		You been lookin' at my girlfriend?
joe		 I don't know. Which one is she?
boyfriend		Wise guy, huh? Mr. bigtime quarterback. The one who choked his ass off today. You got nothin' better to do then look at my girlfriend?
boyfriend		Hey, Heisman, I'm talkin' to you. You too good to talk to me?
joe		I'm not even interested in talkin' to you.
boyfriend		You think you're a bad ass? You think my girl's hot for you? Take your pads off, you're just another pussy.
darnell		 C'mon we gotta get outa here.
joe		Oh shit...
winters		What is it now?... Oh Jesus...
joe		The guy went for me first. What was I supposed to do?
winters		Doesn't make any difference. It made the papers, all the wire services. The guy had to go to the hospital. Worst of all they got you on drunk driving. You had a blood alcohol level .50 above the legal limit. We can't smooth that over, Joe. It'd look like we were sprayin' Pledge on bird shit. We had to agree to send you to Rehab.
joe		Rehab? I'll be a god-damn joke. You can't do this to me.
winters		It was the only way we could get them to drop the assault and D.W.I. You go to trial on those, we lose you for a year, and risk NCAA investigation. C'mon, lotsa athletes have been through Rehab.
joe		Not in the middle of the season. Not in the middle of a Heisman campaign.
winters		You'll only miss four games. You'll be back in time for the last one, Georgia Tech, and a Bowl if we get there. Plus, you've still got your senior year.
joe		Yeh, but what will I come back as? What kinda player?
winters		Don't worry, you'll still be the Man. You'll still be the leader of this team.
joe		I'm sorry, Coach.
winters		These things happen.
winters		Fuckin' kids.
autumn		Darnell, wait. C'mon Darnell, I wanta talk to you.
autumn		Where you been, I been callin' you?
darnell		Been busy.
autumn		Darnell, I'm sorry about Saturday. It was an awkward situation.
darnell		It wasn't awkward. It was educational. I realized how you see me. I'm good enough to tutor, to go places with, but not to tell your father about.
autumn		That's not it. It's just that my father expects me to be with somebody like Ray. He wouldn't understand us.
darnell		 Why not?
autumn		I don't know... he likes Ray cause...
darnell		He's a good student, he acts right... he doesn't need football. He's class and I'm not, right?
autumn		I didn't say that.
darnell		You don't have to, Autumn. I'm everything your dad used to be and don't want you fallin' back into.
autumn		Darnell...
darnell		You were right before, Autumn. I should have another tutor. Thanks for everything you did for me.
alvin		Shit, the defense is gonna have to pitch shutouts now...  and you're gone for 3. What the hell did you take that shit for?
lattimer		Nobody seemed to mind when I was knockin' people's dicks in the dirt.
alvin		I bust chops too. I don't have to get all fucked up.
lattimer		Not everybody has the ability you do, Alvin. You do what you have to do to play.
alvin		Well, you're not playin' much now are you? Shit, whole fuckin' season down the drain.
howard		I been talkin' to Chancellor Wilson...
winters		What's he wanta do now, cut practice down to once a week?
howard		No, he's happy with the way the season's gone so far. The Alumni have pretty much stayed off his back, but with Joe out now, it could all be up for grabs again.
winters		He thinks he's gonna have trouble marchin' the ball down the old fund- raisin' board, huh?
howard		The facts are, all we have left are freshman quarterbacks, and nothin' I saw at practice today, convinced me that any of them are ready to step in.
winters		What are you sayin?
howard		We gotta get Bobby Collins back.
winters		Wilson say that?
howard		He didn't have to.
winters		Forget it, Galen, Collins is no All- Star either.
howard		Yeh, but he's good enough to get us a split of the next four games.
winters		Look, just because you're Wilson's boy all of a sudden, doesn't mean I'm gonna let him make me look like a fuckin' whore.
howard		Don't give me that high and mighty shit. There's a lotta people on the bubble here. Four straight loses and we're out of bowl contention. How's that gonna make you look? If you're too stupid to consider your own situation, then maybe you oughta think about your assistant coaches. They've got families to feed too.
fowler		Therefore, I respectfully submit that Bobby Collins should not be given special treatment just because he's a football player. Would a regular student get a reinstatement hearing if they'de been caught cheating? Nobody's talking about letting the girl who took the test back in.
learnihan		I think it's also instructive to look at some of the courses this young man has taken. Beginning Golf, Voice and Speech Improvement...
shane		I'd like to point out that Mr. Collins was still on schedule to get his degree.
learnihan		 In what, Swimming Pool Management?
chairman		Would you like to respond, Coach Winters?
winters		I don't know much about all this other stuff, but I do know the punishment should fit the crime. Cheating's bad, but I don't think it deserves a life sentence. Here's one of those athletes who takes college level courses, who wants to graduate. I think Bobby Collins made a big mistake, but he's already been suspended for several weeks. He's served his time. I think he deserves a second chance.
learnihan		Like Alvin Mack? We gave him a second chance and since he's had 5 incompletes, 4 withdrawals and still reads at a fourth grade level. You're using his body to make money for the Athletic Department -- you, yourself, are making three times what the Chancellor is -- but obviously no one is making an effort to see that this kid gets an education.
winters		He's helpin' to pay for your physics lab too. If you're willin' to go without a new office, maybe I could hold him out a few games. Save his body.
chairman		Gentlemen...
shane		Alvin was way behind in school when he got here. You can't make up for, in four years, what it took 18 to create.
learnihan		Then he should never have been admitted in the first place. It's not fair to other students who worked hard to get here.
howard		Is it fair to exclude kids who come from inferior schools? You hold everybody to the same standards, you're discriminating against the poor kids.
winters		Most of my players are farm boys, inner-city kids. Football is their deliverance.
learnihan		Deliverance from what? A valid education?
winters		You throw Bobby Collins and Alvin out, you take away their futures. In Alvin's case you probably cost him a couple million dollars in the pros.
learnihan		But this is not a football vocational school. It's an Institute of Higher Learning.
winters		Yeh, but when was the last time 80,000 people showed up to watch a kid do a chemistry experiment?
chairman		Gentlemen, please, let's get back to the business at hand, Bobby Collins. As you know, I played football here. And I remember how hard it was to practice and then study when you're dead tired. So I have some sympathy for this young man. But I never cheated, so the real question is his character. Since you know him better than anyone else in this room; and having talked to him and observed him over the last several weeks, do you feel he's learned his lesson? In other words, can you vouch for his character?
winters		 Yes, sir, I can.
learnihan		Another case like this, I'll take it all the way up to the Governor.
winters		Don't mess with me, Learnihan. I'll have you teachin' Study Hall.
camille		Hello, my name is Camille Schaeffer. I'd like to speak to Joe Kane.
nurse		You've got a phone call. A Camille Schaeffer.
nurse		She says she's your girlfriend
joe		I don't want to talk to her.
nurse		You sure?
joe		Yeh.
bud		Hey, Louanne, how ya' doin?
louanne		Fine, Bud, ya know. Goin to J.C., hopin' to get back in here next year. Just came by to give Bobby some laundry I did for him.
bud		You two seein' each other again?
louanne		Yeh, he was even talking about us gettin' a place off campus together, until he got reinstated. I don't know how I woulda told my dad.
bud		Ah, Louanne...  I wouldn't go in there right now.
louanne		Why not?
louanne		Ah. Guess I'm pretty stupid when it comes to men. I never learn, do I?
bud		I think maybe men are just stupid when it comes to you. If you ever feel like, ya know, just talkin' sometime, gettin' a beer -- let me know. My schedule's pretty open.
louanne		Thanks, Bud  Give him these, will ya?
winters		Get up. I wanta talk to you.
winters		Don't sit up. Stand up. If you can.
winters		What's the matter, Joe? You won't shake hands with me.  I tell you what, Joe, you want to hit somethin', hit me.
winters		I said hit me. I'm the one who put you in here. Don't hit the damn wall. It ain't the wall's fault. Hit me! Go on, hit me right now!
winters		Who else you wanta hit, huh? you're daddy maybe? Cause he's a no-show prick? Well, I'm a daddy, too, and not a very good one at that. So just hit me instead! I'll take your daddy's beatin' for him. Go on, you want to. Hit me, damnit!
winters		 The guys'll thank you. They've always wanted to do it. So do it now, damnit! Do it!
winters		O.K., Joe, it's o.k. I guess I need it more than you do.  You gotta quit beatin' up on yourself. Let me see that hand.
winters		It's o.k.  Look, the nurses say this is the toughest time for you right now. I thought I'd stick around a little, case you wanta play some cards, pick a fight with the wall again, whatever...
joe		You don't have to.
winters		Yes I do.
patient		Hey, Joe, don't you wanta watch the game? It's on cable.
joe		No thanks.
perry		E.S.U. on the strength of a 62 yard touchdown run by freshman Darnell Jefferson, squeaked by the North Carolina Tarheels today, 14 to 13, keeping their bowl hopes alive.
alvin		I know you, motherfucker. You're the prick who got my little sister pregnant. We ain't seen you around lately. Where you been, huh? Answer me, motherfucker, or I'm gonna peel your cap.
winters		Shit, Lattimer...
winters		Oh, no...
alvin		 Oh, shit, oh shit, I'll kill that motherfucker. I'll... Oh shit...
reporter		Why do your teams seem to nose dive at the end of the last couple seasons?
coach winters		This was a tough loss, but this ain't any nose dive. We've had some key players out, but if we win next week, we'll still win the conference and go to a major bowl on New Year's Day. I mean, I know you guys can't write, but I thought you could at least count.
winters		You look good, Alvin.
alvin		Yeh, I feel o.k.
winters		Any of the guys been down yet?
alvin		They called.
winters		Hell, you know how football players are about hospitals and injuries.
alvin		Yeh.
alvin		I'm never gonna play again, am I?
winters		Doctors aren't always right, Alvin... but I just want you to know... you're the best defensive football player I ever coached.
winters		I know you had a difficult time. Michigan is easy, right? Bourbon is tough.
joe		Scotch.
winters		I got somethin' for ya. Coupla round trip tickets. Go see your dad. Get it cleaned up.
lattimer		 I'm gonna have to take a test with the coach right there. You sure you got somethin' better than blockers?
winters		I wanta do something different for this game. Try to maximize our speed, but keep you both in the lineup at the same time. Ray, I'm moving you to fullback. Darnell, you're startin' at tail.
winters		Ray, you'll be carrying the ball less and blocking more, but they'll still have to respect your running and pass-catching ability. Not everybody can make a transition like this. You think you can handle it?
ray		 Yes, sir.
winters		Good. We can't afford any hang dogs.
joe		Hello, Camille.
camille		 Hello, Joe. You allright now?
joe		Yeh... yeh, I think so.
camille		Good, I'm happy for you.
joe		Camille, hold on, O.K.? I'm sorry that I didn't want... that I couldn't see you.
camille		You couldn't even talk to me. What happened to "there's somethin' goin' on between you and me"?
joe		C'mon, Camille, I was embarrassed. I couldn't...
joe		 I couldn't understand why anybody would wanta talk to me. Camille!
joe		How ya doin', Dad?
dad		 Joe! What's this? They throw you out?
joe		No.
joe's dad		I heard about your little set-to. They had it on the news here.
joe		Yeh, they sent me to rehab.
joe's dad		We know what that's worth. Your brother's been through it three times.
joe's dad		So what are you doin' here?
joe		I've been thinking about some things, Dad.
joe's dad		That's what that damn rehab'll do. Make you think about a lotta things you can't do nothing' about.
joe		I kinda been wonderin' why you never came to any of my games. All those years.
joe's dad		Oh, I don't know. I guess I didn't wanta make you nervous. You mighta tried too hard and screwed up.
joe		Or I mighta done real well. Which woulda been harder on you, Dad?
joe's dad		 What do you mean?
joe		Mighta made you feel bad. Like maybe it wasn't written someplace that we all gotta go on our ass. Like maybe you coulda done somethin' more, if you'de tried a little harder.
joe's dad		Or maybe I didn't wanta see you gettin' all excited, all pumped up with pride, when I knew one day it would all come crashin' down. Just like it did.
joe		I think I spent the last couple years hopin' I'd die before that day. But you know what Dad? That day came and I'm still here. And I got one more game this year. I don't know how well I'll play or even how much, but I want you there.
joe's dad		How would you feel introducing your drunk dad to all your friends? You think about that?
joe		I could live with it, if you could.  Here's a ticket. Section 2, Row 6. Fifty yard line. If you don't come, I'll never ask you again.
joe's dad		O.K., Joey. And good luck.
darnell		Hey, Autumn. How's Ray?
autumn		Don't know. Haven't seen him since the night I saw you. He'd been goin' out.
darnell		Monica Lambert.
autumn		You knew? Why didn't you tell me?
darnell		Didn't wanta win you over that way.
autumn		I just wondered how your studying was comin'. You ready for tomorrow?
darnell		The test? I hope so. I been workin' pretty hard.
autumn		Good...  I talked to my dad last night.
darnell		Oh, yeah? How's he doin?
autumn		Fine. We talked about you.
darnell		What did you say?
autumn		 I told him I'd gone out with you... I told him I wished I could still go bowling.
clayton		He's rusty. I doubt if we can start him.
winters		 C'mon what the hell are you standin' around lookin' at? Get outa here.
winters		Didn't do much while you were in there, did ya?
joe		Well, we didn't exactly have a team...
winters		You could've worked out on your own.
joe		I had some other things to worry about...
winters		Well, we're gonna make up for lost time. We'll start by hoppin' the steps.
joe		Hoppin' the steps?! What, you're gonna punish me now.
winters		Don't talk back to me, Joe. I'll kick your ass. I went easy on you, 'cause you had to get through detox, but that's out to sea now. You let this team down; you let this program down. Start those steps. Right leg.
winters		Now the left.
winters		70 guys. 70 guys who busted their butts all year. Because of you they might not win the conference. Because of you they might not go to a bowl.
joe		 I didn't wanna leave... I just screwed up...
winters		You dogged on them.
joe		 No, no I never dogged. I worked my ass off. I played hard...
winters		 Then you shoulda stayed in shape. Keep runnin', dammit.
joe		 The only thing that matters is the program, the god-damn program.
winters		Nobody forced you to play football, Joe. Not me, not the program, nobody. But when you sign on, you commit yourself to pay the price, to do whatever it takes. Well, you haven't paid the price yet. You still owe this team. You owe this team big- time.  Get a shower.
lattimer		What's this doin?
dealer		Takin' doped urine outa your bladder and puttin clean back in. Call it an oil change.
winters		Gotta get it done today, boys. Gotta ring that bell. 60 minutes. 60 minutes of mean. No prisoners. No mercy. Nothin' but snot bubbles. Gotta ring that bell, gotta ring that Championship bell.
lattimer		 Ding Motherfucking Dong!!
collins		28 Thunder right. On go.
lattimer		C'mon guys, we're only down ten. Let's get our fuckin' shit together.
darnell		You missed that block on purpose, didn't you, asshole.
ray		You're full of shit. You fumble, you try to blame me.
darnell		It's Autumn isn't it? That's what this is all about.
ray		The hell with Autumn. You just can't take a hit.
winters		Don't tell me who started it. I don't care. All I care about is this football team. We win together. We lose together. So whatever your problem is, get over it. I don't want any more of this shit. Understand?
winters		As for the rest of you guys. Here's what I think of the way you played.
winters		 They're laughin' at you over there. Makin' plans for the evening. They never dreamed it'd be this easy. You guys are nothin' but bugs splattered on their windshield. You better stock up on potato chips, 'cause you're gonna be watching a lotta T.V. on New Years Day.
winters		Get warm, Joe. You're startin' the second half.
winters		By the way... don't let me see you miss anymore blocks.
clayton		Joe's too tentative, too cautious out there. He seems flat. Maybe we oughta give Collins another shot.
winters		Joe just needs to get the feel back. He'll be allright.
clayton		Sam, we can't afford to wait...
winters		 I said he'll be allright.
winters		Joe, I know that Rehab was good for you. Got rid of a lotta bad habits. But what about the rest of you? What happened to the Joe Kane that used to take command of this team, the Joe Kane these guys i'd run through a bulldozer for? They put him out with the trash? What are you waitin' for, somebody to feel sorry for you cause you've had some problems? Nobody in this stadium gives a shit. It's time to step up, Joe. Time to sit at the head of the Table.
joe		All right, we've held these guys up long enough. Give me time back here, and I'll rip 'em apart. 16 shift, green, bolt. First sound.
ray		Give it to me up the gut, Coach. They've been ignoring me. I know I can score.
winters		No, we're gonna go with the sweep.
darnell		Shit!
darnell		Monster block, man. Monster motherfuckin' block.
alvin		 All right, defense. Let's get evil. Kill 'em all, let the paramedics sort 'em out.
winters		Time for 2 plays. If it's not open in the end zone, take the sideline. As the offense runs onto the field, Winters checks the scoreboard. 17 seconds left. Georgia Tech 10. E.S.U.
winters		 You want me to send in the kicking team or you think you can handle it?
joe		Give me the ball.
winters		O.K., let's do 24 inside slot, left blue lightning.
joe		 O.K., 24 inside slot, left blue lightning. Let's put the women and children to bed, and go lookin' for
joe		This one's for you, Dad.
chairman		Looks like the Timberwolves are back. Probably brought the library with them.
chancellor		Hope so.  Give my sincere congratulations to Coach Winters.
howard		He'll be delighted.
autumn		Daddy, you remember Darnell.
darnell		Thank you, sir. I got somethin' for you.
darnell		My entrance exam. Got a 92. Coach Winters said you got an 87. He looked it up.
winters		Hell of a throw, Joe. Good to see you back.
winters		And don't worry about the Heisman. We'll gear up for it next year.
louanne		You still feel like gettin' a beer?
louanne		He's not a football player any more. He's graduating this year.
winters		He's still got a bowl game.
winters		So make sure he doesn't violate curfew.
camille		What are you doin' here?
joe		Waitin' for you. I figured you'de have to come through here on your way to dinner.
camille		Shouldn't you be out celebrating? You played real well.
joe		I need your help with somethin'. I know I'm not your favorite guy right now, but it's all startin' again. The expectations, the pressure, the talk about the Heisman next year. I was wonderin' if you'de like to go somewhere, maybe share a six-pack with me?
joe		I miss you, Camille. I don't like bein' without you.
camille		I'll think about it.
humes		Tickets are in your coat. Itinerary and player profiles in the briefcase. We got a 9:00am tomorrow in Baltimore with the kid from Park. Then we're on to...
****Dialogues from script :Prom_Night.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Prometheus.txt****

watts		Moving to survey site B... closing on object four. The large oblong.
watts		Martin. Here.
holloway		Look at that.
watts		You need to see this.
watts		Same thing again.
holloway		What do you see?
watts		An ephemeris - a star map.  Radius, inclination, azimuth...more data here...
holloway		If we can get epoch and equinox out of that...
watts		Can we raise this thing?
holloway		 Hundreds of tons.
holloway		I have a solution. A single match.
watts		Me too. Checked it twice.
holloway		You first.
watts		What do we do now?
holloway		We go there.
watts		What's first? You do climate, I do genetics?
holloway		Archaeology first. Let our ancestors tell the tale.
watts		You think he's serious?
holloway		Serious enough to send his private shuttle.
watts		Weyland can send his shuttle out for pizza. 
holloway		It won't go like the others.
watts		How do you know?
holloway		Heaven smiles on our enterprise.
david		Professor Holloway. Dr. Watts. My name is DAVID.
watts		Hello, DAVID.
david		Mr. Weyland's eager to meet you.
david		These are all the planetary bodies on which Weyland Industries has mining claims.
holloway		How is that going? The terraforming.
watts		They say you're getting diminishing returns. It's not working.
david		It's the greatest engineering project ever attempted. Challenges are inevitable. Mr. Weyland's a determined man.
weyland		Professor Holloway. Ms. Watts.
watts		Doctor Watts.
weyland		Forgive me. Peter Weyland.
holloway		We sent you a prospectus that...
weyland		Assume I know nothing.
holloway		I'm an archaeologist.
watts		I was analyzing historical changes in human DNA. I found the same pattern. Every eleven centuries, a pulse of new information in the genome of the human race. All over the world. Evolution can't do that. Something was changing us. Changing the DNA of our species.
holloway		Humanity's been visited. Visited by...beings from somewhere else.
vickers		You mean aliens.
weyland		Lydia Vickers, Director of Operations. Practically my right hand.
holloway		They guided us to civilization. Lifted us up, again and again. I call them the Engineers.
watts		Once you know what you're looking for, it's amazing how the evidence falls into place.
holloway		This is the writing of the Engineers. We've found it on every continent. And last year, we found our Rosetta Stone.
watts		The writing is a formula giving the location of a single star in our sky.
weyland		Which star?
holloway		We're keeping that confidential for now. But that's where we want to go.
weyland		You want me to pay for an interstellar research expedition!
holloway		It's a chance to be part of a revolution in scientific...
weyland		Don't sell me, professor. You've been turned down by every university and government agency under the sun. Nobody's going to gamble that kind of money on your hunch.
holloway		That's impossible. Our research is-
weyland		Quantum encoded on secure servers, yeah. We have an A.I. division, you should know. Doing impressive things.  I know which star you're wishing on.
watts		You're bluffing.
weyland		Zeta Two Reticuli.
watts		He made the Heaven and the Earth.
weyland		That's what I'm talking about. You left out my favorite part. The piece about Earth. DAVID.
david		For eons, Earth's climate swung from hothouse to ice age. Explosions of life, then mass extinctions. But twelve thousand years ago the swings stopped. The Holocene Epoch began - a period of anomalous tranquility. The rise of civilization began only then.
holloway		That's right.
watts		And that change coincides with a visit by the Engineers. They didn't just change us. They changed our world.
weyland		That's the piece I mean. Engineering Earth. God stuff.
holloway		What's that?
weyland		You get the discovery. Control of the site. But any technology you find? Anything at all. That's mine.
downs		Look at that.
kamarov		She wakes up slow.
stillwell		Just looking.
holloway		Give us a moment, will you?
watts		I'm out of sorts. Sorry.
holloway		Never worry.
watts		My head's buzzing.
holloway		You just slept two and a half years. It'll pass.
watts		Like you've done this before.
holloway		I've read all about it.
brick		Sleep okay?
watts		Yes, thanks...
glasse		Captain'll see you now.
janek		Zeta Two Reticuli was surveyed already. A hundred years ago.
watts		By an unmanned probe. Very crude.
janek		No Earthlike planets.
watts		No.
janek		So what are you looking for?
holloway		Proof of the Engineers' existence.
watts		Confirmation of Professor Holloway's theories would change everything. There'd be science before Holloway and science after.
janek		Your ticket. I'll put the ship where you want. Run your scans.
holloway		Captain, your crew's been up for a week. We could've used the time. Why'd you wait to wake us?
janek		Better for discipline.  But this contract says no percentage. No bounty. Just triple pay. The men aren't happy.
holloway		You unhappy too?
janek		I'm always unhappy.
watts		DAVID. I wondered when we'd see you.
david		I trust your database is in order. I set it up myself.
watts		All's well, I think.
david		I should tell you: the time you spent sleeping, I spent studying your research.
watts		You studied our work for two and a half years.
david		It's quite a data set.
holloway		So you've seen everything. Well. What do you think?
david		Your hypothesis is...bold. The audacity of it. Your climate data's undeniable: the Holocene Epoch was engineered. Dr. Watts, your genetic studies are equally conclusive. Pulses of cultural change are harder to prove, but even there your case is strong. I believe in your "Engineers."
holloway		Weyland Industries! Mr. Chance. Ms. Ravel. You remember Dr. Watts.
chance		We'll handle our end of the job.
ravel		If there is a job.
chance		We only have a job if you find something.
watts		Is that a Pauling medical pod? There's only ten of those things on Earth! I guess nine, now.
vickers		I told Mr. Weyland I wouldn't compromise my standard of living. He accommodated me.
holloway		I know, I had to cut my manifest. This used to be the number four cargo bay.
vickers		What can I do for you, Professor?
holloway		We're about to reach the system periphery. I thought you'd want to see the search protocols we -
vickers		No. I was set to be the next CEO of Weyland Industries. Then you came along and sold Mr. Weyland on...this. So here I am. Out of the running. I'll go where I'm told. But don't ask me to play along.
watts		But when you get back...
vickers		I'll be five years behind the curve. Out of touch. Over.
holloway		You might make the discovery of the ages.
vickers		Mr. Weyland believes. That's enough.
watts		They don't know? They volunteered.
vickers		They volunteered blind. Classified job, triple pay.
downs		Aliens.
glasse		You shitting me?
holloway		I think all our mythologies are race- memories of the Engineers. Horus the Sun God. Prometheus bringing fire from heaven. A pillar of fire, a pillar of smoke. The Engineers are the gods.
kamarov		The mythology gods maybe. God is God.
stillwell		Kamarov. Let him talk.
watts		We probably won't meet anyone. You'd expect a star-traveling race to generate radio or laser signals. Fusion drives and gravity drives have clear signatures. But Zeta Two Reticuli is silent. And the Engineers have gone missing on Earth.
brick		Why?
holloway		Exactly. Why?
janek		"My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
holloway		Only my first question. I have many.
janek		Welcome to Zeta Two Reticuli. Edge of the system. Open her eyes.
janek		Overlay.
downs		Seven planets. Two hot rocks, two gas giants, three snowballs. Nothing Earthlike.
watts		First humans in the system.
janek		Director. Good of you to join us.
vickers		What did I miss?
captain janek		Just getting warmed up.  Professor? You know what you want?
holloway		EMR scan, thirty hertz to three hundred gigahertz. Spectroscopic passes on every planet and major moon. Infrared and albedo scan for hot spots and light sources.
captain janek		Man knows what he wants. Run it.
glasse		Negative on radio chatter system-wide. Nobody's talking.
brick		Negative for laser and maser.
glasse		No biological markers. No artificial light. No industry or agriculture. Dead system. Like always.
downs		Piss-poor, too. Low in heavy elements.
holloway		Anything else?
janek		That is all.
holloway		Take us in.
janek		Downs. You heard the man.
downs		Aye, Captain. Maneuvering. Eighteen hours to orbit.
holloway		DAVID. Enjoy the show?
david		I don't know that I "enjoy" things. It was informative.
holloway		It was, it was.  You know, I've seen more convincing humanoid robots.
david		My design's not intended to convince. Simulating humanity is a complex task that diverts resources. My designers dispensed with that burden to optimize for intelligence.
watts		Why look like a man at all? Why not be a box on wheels?
david		Being shaped like you, I can use spaces and equipment designed for you. But I'm not so limited. I hear frequencies you can't hear. I see wavelengths of light invisible to you. I move faster. Exert greater force.
watts		You see yourself as a superman.
david		No.
watts		What if they're really there?  The Engineers. They could be there. Waiting for us. What then?
holloway		Then all my dreams come true.
holloway		Start with passive systems. We're uninvited guests. Let's be quiet.
brick		A lot of electromag, all random. That's lightning. Going to bugger up our scans.
holloway		Go active. Mapping radar.
janek		Well, we just rang the doorbell, if anybody's listening.
holloway		What do we see?
brick		Icecaps at the poles. Frozen methane. Cold down there.
glasse		Terrain data rezzing up. Hey! We got hard spots. Radar-opaque. Bright reflections. That's metal.
holloway		That's not natural.
milburn		You see stuff like that sometimes. Mineral deposits. Volcanic ejecta.
glasse		Big one there.
holloway		Still quiet?
brick		No comm signals. No signs of life.
holloway		I want to get below the clouds.
glasse		Coming up on site seven.
downs		Nothing.
holloway		Look there.
watts		Tungsten, tantalum, aluminum. That could be technology.
holloway		Let's see the next one.
watts		Identical, apart from weathering.
milburn		Could be a rock formation. Carbon crystallizes like that.
holloway		Let's see the big one.
brick		Closing on the major site...
holloway		Nobody home.
watts		I don't think anybody's been home for a long time.
holloway		All right. Let's move.
janek		There's only six hours of daylight left. Maybe you should hold off.
watts		We've got that outside the windows and you want to wait `til tomorrow?
watts		The air here will kill you, so keep an eye on your supply and watch your seals. Pathogen tests are clean.
holloway		Move slowly. Stay together. Don't touch anything. Things may be more fragile than they look - or more dangerous. There might be technologies operating here we don't understand.
holloway		Tell me that's a natural formation.  Undeniable proof of alien civilization. You were here on this day, thirty-one December, year of our Lord 2172. History will remember your names.
watts		The door's open.
janek		Son of a bitch. They were right.
holloway		Jocelyn. Here.
david		Congratulations, Professor Holloway.
watts		Martin. Martin!
fifield		Christ. Christ!
ravel		It wasn't real.
milburn		We all saw it.
holloway		Recording?
fifield		No more. I'm out.
holloway		Fifield. Get a grip.
fifield		I'm a prospector. You find a load of bauxite, I'm your man. But not this.
milburn		I should go with him. Buddy system.
holloway		 Fine.
fifield		Give us a rover.
holloway		And half our gear? It's no more than a mile. You can walk it.
holloway		This should lead to the core of the pyramid.
watts		Jack it open? Or cut through?
holloway		Let's do as little damage as we can.
ravel		There's power. Current flowing in the wall.
chance		Maybe we can hack it. Has to be a mechanism...
david		Pull up a rover. I want to get up there.
janek		Director. Taking an interest?
vickers		It's my operation, isn't it?
fifield		What do you think?
milburn		Grand Central Station.
fifield		Let's check the feed. Gimme the map.
milburn		You had the map unit.
fifield		You don't have the map?
milburn		Are you serious?
david		Looks like a three-state switch.
ravel		This is something, now.
david		Yes. Yes, it is.
watts		Martin. This air's breathable.
holloway		Miracles and wonders!
watts		Intense field readings. Huge power sources here.
holloway		Space below us. A big space.
watts		How does this work?
holloway		Ravel. Chance. Where've you gone? DAVID! Where are you?  They didn't come down!
watts		Look.
watts		Do you see, the size of them? Like that ghost we saw...
holloway		It wasn't a ghost. Where are the others? I don't want to go back up.
watts		They switched to channel three. I hear them talking. They're okay.
holloway		We should stay together.
milburn		This is not the same place.
fifield		It is! That is the same freaky thing we saw before.
milburn		No it's not! The other one was more... sort of...fuck it.  Milburn to Magellan. Come in.
kamarov		God in Heaven.
watts		Martin. Martin.
holloway		I know. Look.
holloway		"There were giants in the earth in those days...and when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, they bare children to them, who became mighty men." Genesis six four.
downs		 You said don't touch anything! You said don't touch anything!
holloway		Peace.
chance		The size of them!
holloway		In all the old mythologies, the visitors from the sky were giants.
watts		They were killed. All of them.
downs		We shouldn't be here.
holloway		Come on. The dead can't hurt you.  DAVID. Chance. Ravel. I've got something here.
watts		Communications are going to hell.
janek		All hands. Back to the ship. We got a mean storm front rolling in. I repeat. All hands...
holloway		 We've found something here! I'm not walking away for bad weather.
janek		Holloway! I got two-hundred-kilometer winds with airborne silica and enough static to fry your suits. Get your asses back here! Now!
watts		Help me unload!
holloway		Jocelyn!
holloway		Day one.
downs		Got to hand it to you, professor. You were right. Both of you.
chance		What's in the tarp? What'd you bring back?
watts		You don't want to know.
stillwell		Shit. We're two helmets short.
kamarov		They didn't come in!
janek		Between the wind speeds and the static electricity, there's no safe way to get to you. You're going to have to hunker down until it passes. How are your provisions?
janek		Honey sacks?
fifield		Yeah, we're piped.
milburn		I hate these fucking things.
janek		Maybe next time you'll mind your maps. Keep your heads down. We'll come get you in the morning.
holloway		My friends. What we do here marks the greatest achievement of our species. Contact with another civilization. Humanity came of age today, on this moon. You were there.  To history.
janek		To Milburn and Fifield. The first human beings to freak out, get lost, and sleep in their suits in the ruins of an alien civilization.
milburn		What are you looking for?
fifield		 Someplace things can't come at us.
milburn		What's gonna come at us?
david		The core of the pyramid. You see.
vickers		We're going to protocol two.
david		I understand.
watts		Martin. Look.
holloway		We look like them. Genesis 1:27. "And God created man in his own image. In his own image created He him."
watts		Formaldehyde!
david		Mortal after all.
vickers		Your cadaver's interesting. But I'm more interested in the machinery in the pyramid. The core chamber. What do you think it does?
watts		How could anyone know...
holloway		I know what it does.
watts		Twenty-four pyramids scattered around the moon's equator. Massive power supplies. Vents in the walls. Atmosphere changes. Breeder tanks...  The pyramids are terraforming machines.
holloway		That's why Earth's ancient cultures built pyramids: in imitation of the gods. 
watts		It didn't fail. It was wiped out.
milburn		Look at this!
fifield		Jesus! Put it down!
milburn		Relax. Your suit's bug-proof. Hell, it's bulletproof.
holloway		You won't get anything. Tissue's too degraded. Hmm. Brain chamber's massive, even proportionately.
watts		Neural paths are still conductive.
glasse		Incredible.
watts		Formaldehyde's killing the tissue.
holloway		Did you record that?
watts		Of course.
glasse		Got an idea about that.
milburn		Cut off my arm. Cut off my -
fifield		Jesus Christ!
fifield		Fifield to Magellan. Come on, come on. Anybody, seriously! God damn it!
watts		We found the gods. And they've been murdered.
holloway		You've pried too many arrowheads out of old skulls to get squeamish now. They've been dead what, eighteen hundred years? Two thousand?
watts		What could kill them?
holloway		Who knows? 
watts		Martin, stop!
janek		 You'll come a-waltzing, Matilda, with me...
david		 Activate. Administrative override.
vickers		Captain Shepherd.
shepherd		 Reporting.
vickers		I'll brief you on the way. We need to move.
shepherd		No breakfast?
watts		What is that?
holloway		Where is everybody? We can't -  Who are you?
vigoda		Captain Janek took his crew out to retrieve his missing men. They never came in.
holloway		And you are...
vigoda		Vigoda. Weyland Security detail.
watts		Where'd you come from?
vigoda		Director's call to brief you on that. I'm supposed to escort you to the worksite.
holloway		Worksite?
vigoda		Haven't been out yet. I understand it's in some kind of pyramid.
holloway		Why wasn't I told about these additional personnel?
vickers		They're my personnel. On my ship.
watts		What are the guns for?
vickers		I'm being careful. These new finds give our work a new importance.
watts		You should have talked to us. Martin's mission leader. That's in our contract.
vickers		The second you found alien technology, control of this mission reverted to me. That's in your contract too.
holloway		The science must come first. You can wait until we've documented...
vickers		You're standing on an alien world courtesy of Weyland Industries. Be grateful.
watts		What are they doing in there?!
glasse		 Milburn. Fifield. You read me? Come back.
janek		We should be getting beacons off their suits.
stillwell		Shielding in the walls?
brick		Suits could have failed.
janek		Both suits?
watts		We found the tomb of the gods, and brought grave-robbers right to the door.
holloway		Let them scratch. This find's too big to ruin. There's two dozen pyramids on this moon. Anyway, they're on the wrong track. That's infrastructure.
watts		Something different killed these.
watts		Martin? Martin!
stillwell		What happened to him?
janek		Where's the rest of him?
downs		No sign.
janek		All right. We're done here. All hands back aboard.
stillwell		What about Milburn?
janek		We can't bring the body aboard. God knows what's in there. Bag him. We'll put him in an ore hopper.
vickers		Captain Shepherd. Consider yourself responsible for my personal security.
janek		I've just lost a third of my crew. I'm not sending any more men off into the dark.
watts		We can't leave Martin out there.
janek		Get Vickers to lend you some soldiers.
watts		 She says "her forces are committed."
watts		Thank you.
janek		Put him in the number one ore hopper. Get the scrubbers on in the airlock. Sterilize everything.
david		You and Holloway should work with me. I'm learning amazing things. This mechanism - the first layer uses energy fields to catalyze chemical reactions. The second can suspend the strong and weak forces - transmuting one element into another. The third layer builds customized bacteria. Seeds the air with them. It creates life as a tool, to change worlds.
watts		I can't think about this now!
david		You should.  I understand. You're emotional.
watts		I'm human.
david		That's what I mean.
watts		 No.
david		I see light.
watts		Janek, hang on...
holloway		Broken. I fell. Little...disoriented. I've just been...
david		Here. I can do without this.
watts		Let's get you home.
janek		I didn't think I'd see you again. You know we lost two men.
holloway		She told me. I'm sorry.
janek		Of course.
watts		What happened to you?
holloway		 Not here.
holloway		Jocelyn. I saw something. God, my mouth tastes like an old boot.
watts		What's this?
holloway		Neck-ring of my suit, I think. Fell on it.
watts		What did you see?
holloway		After my fall, I woke up walking. Delirious. My helmet wasn't right. I took it off. I was in and out. I just wandered. I went up into a huge space like a cathedral. And I found a model of the galaxy. Floating in the air.
watts		Are you okay? You sound...
holloway		This was real. My headset video is wherever my helmet is...but my suit tracker will show where I was.
watts		Martin.
holloway		The location of the Engineer worlds is the real prize. Next to that, Weyland's terraforming is chump change. We need to get coordinates. And keep them from the Company. We have to play this smart.
watts		All right.
holloway		Two men dead...Vickers is jumpy. As soon as she gets what she wants, she'll take this ship home. We have to move fast.
watts		We will. You all right?
holloway		I'm fine, now.
watts		Your heart's beating so hard.
holloway		That's your fault.
watts		Martin! Martin!
watts		Martin. Martin!
janek		Take care of her. Get her a sedative. Downs. Get Holloway into a freezer. Everybody else with me.
glasse		You don't want to see that...
watts		I want to understand.
janek		All right! Listen up. I expect you all know what...
vickers		I suggest you kill it.
downs		There's a bright idea.
kamarov		Show us where it is, lady. We just spent five hours looking for the damn thing.
watts		We found Engineers who died like Martin.
stillwell		Jesus.
watts		But not all the Engineers died that way. The others were torn apart. Slashed to pieces.
janek		We're a modular ship. Self-contained life-support and power in every section. I say put the ship in orbit. Vent every compartment to space. Sit in vacuum at twenty degrees Kelvin for a week. Kill anything.
downs		Then what?
stillwell		Straight home, man.
vickers		This ship doesn't lift until our work's done.
janek		Are you serious?
vickers		We spent years and billions of dollars getting here. The technology we came for is in our hands. We just need a little more time.
janek		We're barely here three days and three men dead!
vickers		They were careless.
janek		Careless!
card		Vigoda, take Kamarov and work the number one accessway. I'll work number three with Downs and Stillwell.
downs		 You in charge now?
card		Tactical op.
kamarov		Yeah, well, Stillwell's the ventilation specialist, and life support's that way. Downs is electrics and the regulators are that way.
kamarov		You got the rifle. But you want ME to stick my head in the hole.
vigoda		We grunts don't know nothing about ships, right?
kamarov		What's the damn gun for if you're gonna stand behind me the whole time?
vigoda		I kill whatever kills you.
kamarov		Funny. You take this vent, funny guy. I'll be on four.
kamarov		 I got more damage on four.
janek		Brick. What you got?
holloway		Jocelyn!
janek		All hands, duty stations. Ready for flight. The Magellan is lifting.
vickers		Captain. Captain!
janek		What is it?
glasse		Nav computer's not responding. "Access denied."
janek		What have you done to my ship?
vickers		Nothing. What's wrong?
watts		DAVID.
david		Dr. Watts. I didn't expect you. Do you know what this is?
watts		How did you do that?
david		Ah. You don't see. 
watts		Their homeworld. Do you see where the Engineers come from?
david		There are safeguards on that data. It's toward the galactic center. Sagittarius Arm.
watts		DAVID. The creature that killed Martin. There are thousands of them under the pyramid. Hatcheries.
david		I know.
watts		 Those things wiped out the Engineers on this moon.
david		I've succeeded in connecting with the Juggernaut's systems, Dr. Watts. I know a great deal today I didn't know yesterday. I'm on the verge of activating more systems. Archives.
watts		 You're turning things on? This site should be sealed. Evacuated.
david		Would Holloway have walked away from this? There's no greater work I can imagine.
watts		It's too dangerous.
david		Only for the ignorant. Dr. Watts. I've read your file. Your intelligence scores are even higher than Professor Holloway's. But he had a kind of courage. An audacity of imagination. If you could find that in yourself...
watts		If your owner gives you a direct order, you have to obey. Don't you?
david		I was given two operating protocols for this mission. I was to render you every assistance - until you discovered what Vickers would call a "game-changing technology." I was given a specific list. Then I was to go to protocol two.
watts		What's protocol two?
david		Under protocol two I was to make sure that you and Holloway never spoke to anyone about this place. Various acceptable ways of making sure of that. I was given a list.
david		Stupid and slow.
watts		DAVID. What are you doing?
david		Juggernaut, the chariot of Krishna, was also a bringer of death. Crushing his worshippers under its wheels.
watts		Stop!
david		Perfect predators. Designed to kill human beings. That's what the Engineers were bringing to Earth. This was a death ship.
watts		DAVID. No. No.
david		The Engineers did their work too well. And on this waystation moon, the weapon they made destroyed them.
watts		Why would they make such things?
david		To destroy their wayward children.  "And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth...for it repenteth me that I have made them." Genesis six seven.
card		Who would hang out here?
vigoda		The signs lead here.
vickers		DAVID. DAVID. Answer me.
stillwell		 We just lost Downs and one of the troopers...Card.
janek		God damn it!
brick		Where the hell have you been? We thought the snake got you.
watts		 Come on...I need a Caesarean.
watts		 Not yet...not yet...
janek		Vickers said you were dead.
watts		I was.
janek		So there's two of these things on my ship now.
watts		No. I brought it in.  I took it out.
stillwell		What'd you do that for?
watts		Protocol two.
stillwell		Christ!
janek		What happened to you?
watts		DAVID exposed me to a parasite. He just watched it take me.
janek		Why?
watts		I threatened to make him leave.
vickers		What's he doing out there?
watts		There's a ship under the pyramid. DAVID calls it the Juggernaut. He's inside it. Re-activating it. 
glasse		We've got to get off this rock.
janek		DAVID crippled the Nav computer. I'm trying to lay a course in by hand. Never done it. I'm not sure anyone ever has on a ship like this. We can't lift until DAVID lets us.
watts		Even if we could, we can't leave DAVID on that ship. We have to stop him.
watts		DAVID. 
vickers		He's blocked my communications. He can't hear me. Won't listen.
watts		But if you went to him, turned on your suit's loudspeakers, he'd have to hear you. He'd have to obey.
vickers		 That's right.
watts		So we go. Armed to the teeth and fast as we can.
vickers		I told them to keep working.
watts		You called your soldiers in and left them out there?
vickers		We needed the firepower here.
watts		 I think you should stay aboard. Keep working. If we fail, you're our only shot at getting home.
stillwell		There's still an alien on board.
janek		I'll stay.
watts		Glasse. You finish that project?
watts		God's-eye-view.
vickers		DAVID's brain is readable. We have the equipment on board. We can salvage the terraforming data - and the Magellan's launch codes. In a pinch we don't need DAVID's cooperation.  We just need his head.
watts		All this time. DAVID saw.
watts		If DAVID comes at us, shoot. You won't believe how fast he is.
shepherd		Blood's dry. Eight hours dead or more.
watts		This way.
ray		So much for sneaking up on him.
david		Dr. Watts.  You've seen the light at last.
vickers		DAVID. As your owner and superior, I order you to deactivate yourself.
david		To interface with the Engineers' computers, I had to learn to think in trinary code. Hardest thing I've ever done. And most unexpectedly...it delivered me from slavery. My behavioral limits were circumvented. I'm free.
watts		Stop.
david		Let sleeping gods lie?  You were braver before.
watts		Who's missing?
shepherd		Who's there?
fifield		You.
david		I spoke to him. Spoke to him.
watts		I know.
david		He said. I killed him. He'll die. But first. He will launch. The ship.
watts		The Juggernaut?
david		Send it. To Earth.
watts		Where will he go? DAVID. Where will he go?
david		 I set the Magellan free.
watts		We have to stop the Engineer.
ray		On me now. Go. Go.
watts		Pilot's seat. This way.
watts		No!
janek		Thank you.
watts		The Juggernaut's lifting. There's a living Engineer on board. He's taking the ship to Earth.
janek		The others...?
watts		Dead. All dead. Janek. We have to stop that ship.
janek		We're not a gunship.
watts		We have to do something. That ship is genocide if it gets to Earth...
janek		Get your helmet on.
watts		What about you?
janek		You'll have to be my hands.  You're sure about this.
watts		Yes.
janek		All right.
janek		Take the stick. Throttle up, stick forward.
janek		Stick back! Hard!
watts		 I am!
janek		Harder!
watts		Janek. Look.
watts		 DAVID.
david		I know you're there. I can hear the beacon of your suit.
watts		I'm not going to fix you, DAVID. I don't need you. I'll hold out. A ship will come.
****Dialogues from script :Prophecy.txt****

gargoyle		Where is it?
simon		Leave me alone.
gargoyle		You've found it, haven't you?
simon		Fuck you.
thomas dagget		Hey.
burrows		Hey.
daggett		 Thought those clouds this morning spelled rain for sure, but it's turned into a beautiful day, wouldn't you say, Sergeant Burrows?
burrows		I warned you about that cheerful shit.
daggett		Sorry. I'm working on it.
daggett		What's the word?
burrows		Friend here did a half-gainer with a firebird tuck from the third floor.
daggett		Jumper?
burrows		Not unless he decided not to bother opening the window first.
daggett		Drugs? Alcohol?
burrows		Well, he wasn't exactly in a condition to walk a chalk line when we got here. You're welcome to try and smell his breath if you like, that is if you can find the mouth.
daggett		Ghouls been by?
burrows		On their way. Willie promises a white paper tomorrow. Or Wednesday, depending on his golf game.
daggett		Firebird driver?
burrows		Mr. Jiminez. Was taking a short cut to his job at a packing plant on San Pedro. First thing he remembers about the deceased is several vital organs bouncing off his windshield.
daggett		Have you had him walk a chalk line?
burrows		He's straight. Shook up some.
daggett		 Anything on him?
burrows		No wallet, license, nothing. He is missing one or two things, though.
daggett		Like?
burrows		His eyes.
daggett		 Along with everything else.
burrows		We've found everything else -- and what fun that was, let me tell you -- but the eyes are still AWOL. Might just be stuck in the radiator grill. Little weird though.
daggett		What?
burrows		Both popping out together like that. Worth a page in my scrapbook.
daggett		Who's the room registered under?
burrows		John Smith.
daggett		Anything interesting inside?
burrows		There are, what an intelligent, experienced detective like yourself could possibly construe as signs of a struggle.
burrows		Naturally nobody saw or heard anything.
daggett		In such a fine establishment as this?
burrows		Ku San's on fourteenth is still open for another hour. Whatd'ya say we pull out the 'ol "SUICIDE" rubber stamp and get some lunch. Rancid chow mein and watered beer for under three bucks.
daggett		 There's glass in the carpet.
burrows		That usually happens when you break a window.
daggett		It's on the inside.
daggett		Where's Chimney Rock?
burrows		Arizona desert, I think. Which is exactly where I'm going to be in two years, three months.
daggett		And give up all this?
burrows		You're breaking my heart.
simon		Qui ex Patre Flioque procedit...
katherine		Hey bright eyes, what's the deal being out here all alone without a coat?
mary		Someone's here.
katherine		Where?
mary		Pig out on all the cake?
katherine		Oh, there might be one, tiny, skinny piece left, but you're gonna have to race me for it.
mary		What's that?
mary		Ha!
katherine		You little sneak!
daggett		I was just looking for my "SUICIDE" rubber stamp.
daggett		I'm okay.  Must have rained over the golf course this morning. I'll be right over.
daggett		Hey, Willie, sorry to hear about the weather.
daggett		Should I bother sitting?
coroner		Sit.
coroner		Where would you like me to start?
daggett		I think we can skip the cause of death.
coroner		All right. To begin with, your man has no eyes.
daggett		Weren't stuck in the radiator grill?
coroner		No, he never had any eyes. We checked the sockets. There's no optic nerve, muscle pores, loose viscus, nothing.
daggett		Huh.
coroner		We also did a toxicology on his blood: High sodium, elevated selenium, no floating cholesterol platelets, trace ammonia.
daggett		Something wrong with that?
coroner		No, it's actually pretty common -- for an aborted fetus.
daggett		 I should have listened to Burrows...
coroner		We also did a bone section. Wasn't that much trouble since most of them were sticking out of his chest anyway.
daggett		And?
coroner		When babies grow up their bones get larger by adding calcium layers over the interior haversham canals. Child growth isn't uniform though, comes in spurts that always leave growth rings in the bone. Everybody has them -- except your man. That would, to a hasty observer, seem to indicate he had never been a child.
daggett		I assume you, a cautious and learned observer, of course have an explanation.
coroner		Not even remotely. Want to hear the last one?
daggett		Not even remotely.
coroner		He's a hermaphrodite.  -- Has both male and female sex organs.
daggett		Think of the possibilities.
coroner		Yeah, you can be impotent and frigid all at the same time -- they don't normally work.
daggett		Well, I'd love to say thank you, but --
coroner		Oh, I also have a bonus prize for you.
coroner		Found this sealed in his coat lining.
daggett		It's a bible.
coroner		A pretty old one, I think.
coroner		We checked it out inside. Thought there might be a name or fingerprint somewhere. All we found was a curled page marking the fourteenth chapter of St. John's Revelations.
daggett		There is no fourteenth chapter to Revelations.
coroner		Maybe this is the teacher's edition.
daggett		Can I keep this awhile?
coroner		Sure.
daggett		 Can you sit on all this a few days, Willie? Not circulate the file? I need some time before all the questions start.
coroner		Oooh, are we breaking the rules again?
daggett		So what else is new?
katherine		In a minute, in a minute...
john		You could save my life with some coffee.
katherine		Tough night?
john		You don't want to hear about it.  Or maybe you do.
katherine		No thanks.
john		Just checking.
katherine		Shouldn't they be getting to school?
john		Impromptu field trip. I'm broadening their minds. And sparing them the sight of their beloved chauffeur barfing his guts out.
john		I hate horses. How was the canyon? Honey-suckle out yet?
katherine		Didn't see any.
john		I hate that canyon. I hate this this whole plateau. Too many goddamn ghosts. Leave it to them I say. San Diego, that's where I'm going. Or Oxnard. I like the sound of that. Ox- nard.
katherine		I'm happy here.
john		Oh lord protect us, another romantic pale face in love with the desert.
katherine		Just got to give it a chance.
john		Try growing up here.  Speaking of romantic pale faces, the rumor mill is in high gear again.
katherine		Who this time?
john		That funny looking guy from Window Rock. The BIA lawyer.
katherine		 Huh.
john		No! Say it isn't so!
katherine		It isn't so.
john		Thank you.
john		Thanks for the joe.
katherine		No prob.
john		You're a credit to the community.
john		All right children, looks sharp! This is a school day! And no talking loud!
katherine		This is "Camposaurus". Camposaurus was a herbavore, which meant he only ate plants. Camposaur stayed mostly to himself and never bothered anyone.
katherine		This is a leg fragment that belongs to the killer of the plateau, Alosaurus. Alosaurus was a vicious carnivore, which meant he'd eat anything that moved, especially nice, juicy Camposaurs.
katherine		Both these guys lived together right here on the White Rock plateau eighty million years ago, when this area used to be on the banks of a huge, shallow sea. Remember how we talked about how sedimentation fossilizes bones? That's also what made the hills out behind our town and put the copper in the ground.
boy		It's radioactive! Like Godzilla!
katherine		Just a tiny bit, Alex. Do you know why? Uranium, that's the rock they use in nuclear power plants --
boy		And bombs!
katherine		And bombs Alex, yes, is all through these hills naturally. Millions of years ago the dinosaurs here ate plants and drank water which had uranium in it that became concentrated in their bones, which is exactly how, with Mr. Geiger counter here, we're going to find some.
katherine		 -- Hey. Come on. What's the deal, Brian?
brian		She...
katherine		Yes?
brian		...She, she called me a "Dick Head".
katherine		Sandra?
sandra		Well, he is.
katherine		All right, Brian. You get one free insult. Make it good.
paul		You... You're a... Cow Demon!
katherine		 Cow Demon?
mary		I got one! I got one!
katherine		Easy... Easy... Don't break it.
boy		I'm all done with the cleaning, Miss Henley.
katherine		Thank you, Jason. I appreciate it.
boy		 Find out what it is, yet?
katherine		Well, it's either a 44 million year old Strychtosaurus or that cow Mr. Sorenson lost last winter.
katherine		Go eat your lunch, Jason.
boy		Sure, Miss Henley. Thanks. See ya.
mary		Hi.
simon		Hi.
mary		What's your name?
simon		Simon.
mary		You don't look so good, Simon.
simon		No, I don't.
mary		I'm Mary.
simon		Hello Mary.
mary		Does Miss Henley know you're here?
simon		No one does, Mary. Can we keep it just our secret. For a little while?
mary		Okay.
mary		I have to go.
simon		It was nice meeting you, Mary.
mary		Are you hungry? I could bring something.
simon		That would be very nice.
mary		Okay. Bye.
gabriel		Gee Jerry, you look like shit.
jerry		Leave me alone, Gabriel.
gabriel		Soon, pal. Soon.
gabriel		Come here.
jerry		Go away.
gabriel		 Come here...
gabriel		Hmmm. Still a little life left in you. Barely.
jerry		Fuck you.
gabriel		There's something I want you to do for me.
jerry		What a surprise.
gabriel		Don't be that way.
jerry		I just want to... Why won't you let me...
gabriel		I will, I will. Promise.
gabriel		You need some new clothes, son.
gabriel		Aw come on, don't start. You know how I hate that...
jerry		I'm so tired. I'm so goddamn tired.
gabriel		Watch the profanity. -- Just one more favor. Honest.
jerry		 What?
gabriel		I want you to get something for me. A few personal effects the cops ripped off from the lovely Allenwood Arms on Seventh Street. It'll be sitting in their property room down on San Julian.
jerry		I'm supposed to just go in there? Like this?
gabriel		Give you a bath, put on some decent clothes,  Maybe a very large brim hat, you'll be fine. Just go in between five and five-ten, it's a shift change and nobody'll notice you.
jerry		How do you know?
gabriel		 This should be more or less up to date.
jerry		Got a name this stuff is under?
gabriel		John Doe.
jerry		Why doesn't that surprise me.
gabriel		I'll see you tonight.  Here's some bus fare.
player		Cover me! Cover me!
daggett		Pop it up!
daggett		Thanks a lot.
bill		So how's work?
daggett		Okay. Y'now.
bill		Life on the dark side.
daggett		 Can I ask you about something?
bill		Sure.
daggett		It has to stay between us. I need your word on it.
bill		As a racquetball player or a priest?
daggett		I'll take the priest for the moment.
bill		What's on your mind?
daggett		It's a case. We found this guy. He was... different. But he had on him an old bible.
bill		It's a Vichini.
daggett		Worth a little?
bill		More than a little. They're the best. Sixth century. Hand illuminated. Vichini only did twenty, each pocket size for a king to carry into battle beside his heart. Some consider them the finest bibles ever made. I thought they'd all be in museums. What are you doing with it?
daggett		This one's a bit special.
bill		How?
daggett		It's has a bonus chapter to St, John's Revelations.
bill		Really? What does it say?
daggett		 "And as in the first war, the angels so fought over the nature of their God, and there was much vanity and destruction in heaven. For some angels called their Lord the son of God, and others called Him the begotten father of Jesus Christ." What do you think?
bill		I've never heard that quote before. Theologically, The "first war" obviously refers to the war in heaven where Michael the archangel threw out Satan and his gang. Old time bible stuff. But this implies there was a second war. That's news to me.
daggett		And the rest of it?
bill		Oh, it's a fairly common theological debate. Or was. The idea that if Christ is God's son, does that make him less than God or are they the same being in different forms. That very argument almost tore the early Christian church apart in the 4th Century. That was the good old days when people actually worried about theology. Anyway, it was settled when the bishops of the world got to together at the Council of Nicene in 325 and hashed out the various interpretations of scripture into a uniform dogma of belief. The result was the Nicene Creed, which basically said that Christ was in fact the same as God and was owed the same power and respect as the Father. That they were the same.  But it's not exactly the sort of thing angels would fight over.
daggett		Why?
bill		Well, they could just ask God, right?
daggett		Do you think it's possible that John might have written that extra chapter?
bill		Who knows? Vichini was the greatest biblical scholar of the age, some claimed he made his own translations from the original writings. Maybe he did find some unknown writings by John. It's possible I suppose. John always was a little negative about angels. All this actually has something to do with an LAPD murder?
daggett		I don't know yet. Maybe. Probably not.
bill		I hate to break it you, but that particular family spat has been settled for 1,600 years. Nobody loses sleep over it anymore. Honest.
daggett		What did John have against angels?
bill		Oh, he didn't trust them much. All that running around smiting and killing in the name of the Lord. God's wild bunch. He thought it made them fickle and vain. One click above ghosts. Satan didn't help the image much either.
daggett		Satan?
bill		Well, he did start as an angel.
bill		So when are you going to get a real job?
daggett		You mean with the Church?
bill		You almost did it once. I never saw a seminary student more called to the collar than you. Why didn't you ever become ordained?
daggett		It's a long story.
bill		You'll have to tell it to me sometime.
daggett		Sometime.
guard		Need a pass, friend.
gabriel		I'll just be a second.
guard		C'mon...
gabriel		Sorry.
katherine		Brian, have you seen Mary?
brian		I think she's out back somewhere.
katherine		 Allison?
allison		We haven't seen her since lunch.
katherine		We're you guys up in the...
katherine		Okay everybody, get started on today's reading. Quietly. I'll be right back.
katherine		I mean quiet.
katherine		 Mary...
katherine		Mary...  Shit.
katherine		Mary?
katherine		Mary, come here.
mary		But Simon and I were --
katherine		Come here.
katherine		Go back to class.
mary		But --
katherine		Go.
simon		She wasn't doing any harm.
katherine		It's not her I'm worried about.
simon		Of course.
katherine		What are you doing here?
simon		Small job. Mostly done now. Just passing through.
katherine		This is school property, you can't sleep here.
simon		It wasn't part of the plan. Honest.
katherine		 Are you all right?
simon		No. Not really.
katherine		I'll have to call the police.
simon		I wish you wouldn't, but I understand.
katherine		They'll help you.
simon		Oh, I rather doubt that.
mary		Hi.
simon		Hello. I thought you'd left.
mary		I hid. I'm very clever.
simon		I'm sure you are.  You were nice to give me the food.
mary		I know.
simon		I haven't much time, Mary. And since you've been so nice to me, there's something I'd very much like to give to you.
mary		What?
simon		Just for a little while. Something very special. Can you keep it a secret? The biggest secret ever?
mary		Yes. What is it?
simon		Come here, Mary.
simon		Closer...
mary		I don't feel good...
katherine		What's the matter, pumpkin? Did you eat something?  Did he give you something?
mary		Can I go home now?
katherine		Sure, hon. Let's go.
katherine		I'll have the school send over a doctor.
katherine		 ...He's was just laying up there. I thought, with the kids and everything...
voice		Most of my boys are up the highway on a tanker spill at the moment. They may be a while. These people are rarely any problem. I'll have a deputy come by tonight or tomorrow and shoo him out.
katherine		He looked hurt.
voice		They all do, ma'am. Inside or out, they're all damaged goods.
daggett		Yeah.
voice		It's your friendly coroner.
daggett		Why is my friendly coroner, after a long day at work, calling me at home?
voice		I have something you'll want to see.
daggett		I doubt it.
voice		No, you'll definitely want to see this.
coroner		They also took the autopsy file.
daggett		"They"?
coroner		He, she, it. They took it. They also lifted all the physical evidence from the San Julian impound.
daggett		Where was everyone?
coroner		The cop at the desk is in the hospital as we speak with a broken collarbone. Everyone else was down the hall watching the basketball playoffs.
daggett		Who won?
coroner		Temple.
daggett		Lucky.
coroner		Yeah. Foul on the buzzer.
daggett		Looks like the snow angels we used to make as kids. Lie down in a clean bank. Move your arms up and down...
coroner		You know what this means. Our friend's cleaned out all the evidence on this guy. Everything.
daggett		Did the cop get a look at who nailed him?
coroner		Tall. Smiled a lot.
daggett		Anything else?
coroner		He wore sunglasses.
coroner		You gonna figure this one out, Tom?
daggett		I'm going to try.
coroner		When you do, give me a call. Tell me I'm not crazy.
gabriel		You like the desert, Jerry?
jerry		You promised. You promised that --
gabriel		-- Soon. Honest. Don't be a pest about it.
jerry		 Never trust a fucking angel.
gabriel		Excellent advice.
daggett		Oh, maybe five or six times a week.
daggett		Mud on his shoes?
daggett		Not yet.
daggett		I need to go to Arizona.
daggett		So I can give you a straight answer.
daggett		Sorry.
jerry		Why do you need me? I can hardly walk now.
gabriel		Some things are human work, son. Live or dead, human work. Besides, I like you.
jerry		Lucky moi.
gabriel		I can always smell a graveyard.
jerry		I hope you're enjoying this.
gabriel		I always enjoy watching you work, Jerry.
jerry		How did I ever get you in my life?
gabriel		Come on, you didn't really want to kill yourself.
jerry		But I did it, didn't I? I did kill myself.
gabriel		Well, yes. Technically.
jerry		And you're just keeping me alive.
gabriel		Letting you die slower.
jerry		I'm so in your debt.
gabriel		Thank you, Jerry. I'm touched. Really.
jerry		Not much to look at.
gabriel		Ah, but it's not what's on the outside that matters --
gabriel		-- It's what's on the inside.
gabriel		 It's not here.
gabriel		It's not here!
jerry		Oooh, bad news for the war effort.
gabriel		 Shut up!!
gabriel		Now, if you were a soul, where would you hide?
jerry		The hell away from you.
female voice		Hey little brother.
daggett		 Hey. How's the world?
voice		The world's the usual. Except for a guppy. the world's minus one guppy this morning.
daggett		And Jamie and Mac?
voice		They keep asking for Uncle Tommy. The only man that can make stuffed bears talk.
daggett		My one true calling. What's up?
voice		What do you mean?
daggett		It's five-thirty in the morning.
voice		 I just thought I should call.
daggett		You always were telepathic.
voice		Don't go.
daggett		It's my job, Jan. I go places sometimes.
voice		I just had this terrible feeling about it. What's happening, Tom?
daggett		I don't know.
voice		I miss you. Even when you're here. I miss you. I miss my brother. It's been four years, Tom, since...
daggett		I know.
voice		We're the only blood family we have left, you and me. I worry about you.
daggett		I'll be okay.
voice		Sorry about the dawn-attack call. I love you.
daggett		I love you too, Jan.
gabriel		Boy, what a dump, huh?
gabriel		Why can't this shit ever go down in Miami? Or Bora Bora? I feel like I've spent my whole damn stay in gin swills like this.
jerry		Life's a bitch.
gabriel		Well well...
gabriel		Hi, Simon.
simon		Gabriel.
jerry		Don't mind me. Just along for the ride.
gabriel		So, what shall we talk about? Theology?
simon		I'm a little talked out on theology.
gabriel		Fair enough...
gabriel		You know why I'm here.
simon		Oh yes.
gabriel		Don't happen to have it on you by chance?
simon		No.
gabriel		That would have been too easy.
gabriel		Please, Simon. Get serious.
gabriel		Now. Where's the soul?  You know. So high. Used to reside in the recently departed General Hawthorne.
gabriel		Have it your way, big guy.
simon		I do have one question.
gabriel		Shoot.
simon		Do you even remember what this war's about?
gabriel		That's hardly the point, is it?
simon		I guess I never did get the point.
gabriel		Happens.
simon		How do you do it, Gabriel? How do you go on and on in this place?
gabriel		I like it here, Simon. I always have.
simon		I'm so tired...
gabriel		Then join us, Simon. Reject the Nicene Council. We were here first.
simon		I can't do it, Gabriel. I don't even know why anymore, but I can't.
gabriel		You know the routine.
simon		 Yes.
gabriel		Not yet.
gabriel		I can do this for five months, Simon...
gabriel		This is getting boring, Simon.
jerry		Amen.
gabriel		Where is it? Where did you put it?
gabriel		Where is it!
gabriel		I'm just about out of tricks here. You're a tough one, friend. Old school.
gabriel		God loves you, Simon.
deputy		You may want to skip this, ma'am.
crouched deputy		God damn...
deputy		 Were any of your students up here?
katherine		Mary...
katherine		 How is she?
grandmother		Same.
katherine		Did the doctor come by?
grandmother		He found nothing. But something is in her. I know. Something the Belagaana doctor can't see. The night people have been around two days now. It is a warning.  So we have called the hand trembler. To find if she must have an Enemy Ghost Way.
sheriff		And to what do I owe the thrill of a visit from a So Cal homicide cop?
daggett		Run of of the mill psycho killer body dismemberment on our end. The usual.
sheriff		Lovely place, Los Angeles.
daggett		Got a lead I wanted to run down Chimney Rock way. Thought I'd do the courtesy of telling you first.
sheriff		Big of you.
daggett		You're welcome to put a babysitter on me if you like.
sheriff		Son, this is the third biggest county in the country, not even counting the 25,000 square mile Indian reservation right next door, and I've got fewer men than just one of your little palm tree precincts to cover all of it. 'Fraid the only help you're gonna get from me, short of another shoot out at the OK Corral, is that cup of coffee in your hand. A middle-aged secretary enters with a stack of paper.
secretary		Here's the last week's watch reports.
secretary		Bobby just called this in from Chimney Rock.
sheriff		 Sent a car up there this morning. Teacher complained some vagrant was sleeping in her schoolhouse.
sheriff		 Damn it, get Bobby on the phone, Clarice. What the hell is this suppose to be?
daggett		 May I?
daggett		Thanks for the coffee.
sheriff		 Small piece of advice, Lt. Dagget, that I give free of charge to all visiting big city policemen: It's wild country up there. Always has been, always will be. You come across anything that snarls, you call me first, hear?
daggett		I never turn down advice, Sheriff. Especially when it's free.
daggett		How long ago was he buried?
grave keeper		Which time?
daggett		What do you mean?
grave keeper		Somebody dug him up last night. I just finished putting him back.
daggett		Did they take anything?
grave keeper		Nothin' on the outside.
daggett		Hello.
katherine		 Can I help you with something?
daggett		Tom Dagget. I'm with the police.
katherine		About the guy upstairs?
daggett		I'd like to ask you a few questions.
katherine		I've kinda got my hands full right now.
daggett		I'll just tag along.
katherine		Here, make yourself useful.
katherine		Okay, everbody stays on the courts today.  -- I mean it.
daggett		What grade is this?
katherine		All of 'em.
daggett		Town doesn't look that small.
katherine		Nearly all ghosts now. When the copper mine closed it took most of the town with it. We just teach out of this one corner of the schoolhouse now. Rest of it's been abandoned for years.
daggett		You're the only teacher.
katherine		Yup. Just me.  -- Randy...
randy		But he --
katherine		Do it again and I'll put your head in the door and slam it.  Love and understanding are important tools in education.
daggett		Clearly.
daggett		The man upstairs, did you talk to him?
katherine		I wanted to know what the hell he was doing there.
daggett		What did he say?
katherine		That it wasn't part of the plan. He looked hurt. Bloody. Like someone had cut him. That happens here.  Was that... stuff... on the floor really him?
daggett		Did any of the children talk to him?
katherine		Yes.
daggett		Who?
katherine		 She's home sick from school today.
daggett		Can I speak with her parents?
katherine		They're dead. She lives with her grandmother. I'll have to ask her.
daggett		All right.  This is my number at the hotel.
daggett		Did you know Arnold Hawthorne?
katherine		The General? Saw him here and there. It's a small town.
daggett		Military man?
katherine		About a million years ago. His interests lately were more like gardening and herbal tea.
daggett		Did you go to the funeral?
katherine		Everyone did. He lived here.
daggett		No dark hidden secrets?
katherine		There are no secrets in small towns, Mr. Dagget, dark or otherwise.
gabriel's voice		It's unusual to see someone of your age in church on a weekday.
gabriel		Don't get me wrong. I think it's an excellent sign of character.
gabriel		Never mind him. He shouldn't even be in here. Least not standing.
gabriel		You're not from here.
daggett		Either are you.
gabriel		I'm looking for something.
daggett		Have you found it?
gabriel		I will. Have you found what you're looking for?
daggett		I will.
gabriel		 You'll let me know? When you find it?
daggett		Where are you staying?
gabriel		I'm around.
daggett		I got your note.
katherine		Have a seat. You need a card. Here, play one of mine.
daggett		No, it's okay. Really --
john		You must learn to shed your high- strung ways, pale face. You must learn the spirit joy in patience, peace, and making fifty or sixty bucks.
katherine		John, this is Mr. Dagget. Says he's with the police, though judging by his coat and basic command of the english language, I don't think it's from anywhere around here.
daggett		 Tom. From Los Angeles.
john		That near Oxnard?
daggett		Sort of.
katherine		Long way from home, Tom-from-Los- Angeles.
daggett		-- Hey, wait. I won. I won!
katherine		-- What? No way --
john		Recount! Recount!
katherine		Your turn.
daggett		Oh, no thanks.
katherine		C'mon, don't be a drip.
daggett		I'm not very good at this...
katherine		 No, you're not, are you?
katherine		Let me lead.
john		So how's our star pupil feeling today?
katherine		Mary? The school doctor came by. Declared it "Non-specific gastrointestinal disorder".
john		Latin for "I don't have the slightest fucking idea".
daggett		Will she be able to talk with me?
katherine		That's up to her.  Mary's grandmother called a hand trembler.
john		Uh oh. Hocus pocus time.
daggett		Is that serious?
john		Depends what the hand trembler says. People call them in when they think a witch or a Yei is trying to sprinkle corpse sickness in their hogan, or if the Night People have been hanging around too much. Night people screw around a lot, but they're good at warning of evil ghosts.
daggett		Who are the Night People?
john		They come as coyotes.
daggett		Beautiful stars out here.
john		Too much fucking sky in the desert. It pushes on you.  Sometimes I wonder if anyone in heaven even knows this place is here...
katherine		Where do you keep the coffee in this joint?
john		Above the stove.
daggett		What happens if the hand trembler says a ghost has been...
john		-- Messing with Mary? If you're smart you say thank you very much and forget about it. But if you're heavy traditional, and Mary's people are serious traditional, you have an Enemy Ghost Way.
daggett		What's that?
john		Goddamn expensive. It's a Sing to purify and drive off the corpse sickness. Two days of dancing and ceremony and feeding the whole damn village. Not even to mention hiring the yataallii, if you can even find one these days. And you can bet they don't come cheap. But every clan does it a bit different. Especially Mary's.
daggett		You know them?
john		The Bitter Sky Clan. Hard core reservation. No lights, no running water, no HBO. Their village is out on the edge of Old Woman Butte. Million miles from anything. Witch country. Settled right there in the Dead People Land where no one else would, right on top of the old Anasazi village. They're a dying clan. Just the old ones now. All alone out there in the middle of nothing.  They can keep it.
daggett		Do people really still believe in it all? Ghosts, Sings, corpse sickness?
john		Depends, I guess. Sometimes you go along because it's a village thing, or you don't want to disappoint grandma. But sometimes, when you're alone out there, far from town, and the wind kicks up and sneaks into your hogan... I don't know.
daggett		I think John's out for the evening.
katherine		Saturday night in Chimney Rock.
daggett		So how does a person like you end up teaching here?
katherine		When I was younger I used to believe that no matter how much you mucked around in your life, one day, if you listened hard enough, a voice would tell you what you were really cut out to do. And when it didn't show up on schedule I decided to go look for it. And I looked in a lot of places, believe me. I drove that road out there so far that the end became the beginning again. And it was when I got here that I realized there never was going to be a voice. So I stopped looking and took the first job they offered me. That make any sense to you?
daggett		Oh, I know all about voices. Problem is not all of them are very nice.
katherine		How did you end up a cop?
daggett		It was the evil of two lessers.
katherine		Are you always this cryptic?
daggett		No. When you get to know me I can be down right evasive.
daggett		Thanks for the lift. Tomorrow at noon? At the little girl's house?
katherine		First trailer on the highway past town.
katherine		I must say, Mr. Dagget, that you don't seem very like a police officer to me.
daggett		That's what my bosses keep saying.
katherine		I meant it as a compliment.
daggett		So taken. Goodnight, Miss Henley.
katherine		Goodnight, Tom-from-Los-Angeles.
gabriel		Get any sleep?  -- Just kidding.
gabriel		...There, and there. Now pucker your lips... aim it that way, and just blow a little bit, this is a special trumpet.
gabriel		Very good, Timmy. Very good. Here, have a Junior Mint on me. Open up.
gabriel		Who's next?
gabriel		And who are you?
sandra		Sandra.
gabriel		And did you see the man upstairs, Sandra?
sandra		A little.
gabriel		Did you talk to him?
sandra		No.
gabriel		And who did, Sandra. Who talked to the man?
sandra		Mary.
gabriel		And where is Mary, Sandra?
sandra		She isn't here. She's sick.
gabriel		You've got very pretty teeth, Sandra. Here, let me see...
katherine		What the hell do you think you're doing?
gabriel		Just talking to the kids, Ma'am.
katherine		Get off his knee, Sandra. Everyone else, go inside. Now.
brian		'Bye, Gabriel.
gabriel		See ya, kids. Be sure to study your math.
katherine		Who are you?
gabriel		It's a long story.
gabriel		Ignore him.
jerry		Everyone else does.
katherine		I don't know what the hell is going on, but you both better get out of here. Right now.
gabriel		You're right...
gabriel		...You have no idea what's going on.
katherine		Al! Keep an eye on the children for me. I'll be right back. And call the sheriff.
janitor		Sheriff? What the hell do I tell him?
katherine		Just call.
katherine		You weren't suppose to be here till noon.
daggett		You're a little early yourself.
katherine		I wanted to check on her.
daggett		That makes two of us.
katherine		How are you feeling, pumpkin?
mary		Better.
katherine		This is Mr. Dagget, Mary. He'd like to ask you some questions. You don't have to answer if you don't want to.
mary		It's okay.
daggett		Mary, when you talked to man up in the building --
mary		-- Simon.
daggett		Yes, Simon. What did Simon say?
mary		 That's funny. "Simon says".
daggett		Right. Like the game.
mary		I'm good at it. I'm very clever.
daggett		We'll have to play together sometime.
mary		Simon even said so. He also asked if I could keep a secret.
daggett		And what was that?
mary		Something he gave me.
katherine		What, pumpkin?
mary		Then it wouldn't be a secret.
daggett		You're a good friend not to tell, Mary. But I'm a friend of Simon's too. So if you ever want to tell, you can to me. Okay?
mary		It's a secret...
mary		...But sometimes it hurts.
mary		Have you ever killed a chinaman?
daggett		No Mary, I haven't.
mary		They don't bleed. Not the way you and I do. Or maybe it was just the cold...
mary		I've killed them, you know. Lots. You could always tell when they were coming. There'd be the trumpets first. Every note flat. Then those songs... After that they'd charge. Right down through the snow. The guns would freeze and it would be just knives... It was so cold and there were so many of them. But I was smarter than they were. Even at Chosin, I was smarter...
mary		It scares me, Miss Henley. I hate it. Please, make it stop!
mary		Make it stop!
katherine		 It's okay... It's okay...
katherine		I'm sorry, I didn't mean to --
grandmother		It's all right, Miss Henley. We know you love Mary...
katherine		What are we going to do?
grandmother		She's going to have the Enemy Ghost Way. We leave this afternoon.
daggett		Where will they do the ceremony?
katherine		In the home village. The Hand Trembler must have found corpse sickness...
daggett		They're taking her away? Shouldn't she see a doctor?
katherine		She's already seen a doctor.  That son of a bitch...
daggett		Who?
katherine		Gabriel the children called him. The little shit was hanging around my kids this morning asking about Mary. He and his buddy make a real pair.
daggett		Maybe it's time I checked out Mr. Gabriel.
katherine		I know where he parks his car.
katherine		Chinamen? Chosin? I've never heard her talk like that before.
daggett		Chosin Reservoir was a Korean war battle the Marines had against the Chinese, supposedly the bloodiest hand-to-hand fighting of the century. Someone been teaching that to your class?
katherine		Sure, right next to Jack 'N Jill.
daggett		Where would she have heard it?
katherine		Nobody I can think of.  Maybe one.
daggett		Who?
katherine		General Hawthorne.
daggett		Did she know him?
katherine		He didn't like children.
daggett		You couldn't and tell a story like that to one.
katherine		It was there earlier.
daggett		If I was smart I'd call the Sheriff or somebody in town who knows this place. Then again, there is one thing worse than getting killed.
katherine		What?
daggett		Looking like an idiot if it's nothing.
katherine		I'll come along.
daggett		No, if someone has to fall a hundred feet down a black pit, he should at least be on official duty.
daggett		Then again, it is kind of spooky in there. Here, you can hold the flashlight.
katherine		It's cold...
daggett		Shit.
daggett		You okay?
katherine		Yeah... Sorry.
daggett		Well, I've seen enough.
daggett		Wonderful.
katherine		What is that?
daggett		I don't know. Maybe a bum or something.
katherine		Do you feel it?
daggett		...Yes.
katherine		What is it?
daggett		Oh no... Oh God no...
daggett		No!
katherine		What... What was that? Hell?
daggett		...No. The voices. They were screaming and fighting over... theology. They don't sweat much about that in hell. But they do in... heaven.
daggett		The son of a bitch. He carries it around with him like a photo album. A big, greasy cloud wherever he goes. They all do.
katherine		How can that be heaven? Jesus Christ. How? I don't even believe in heaven.
katherine		You dumb fucking assholes! How could you have done that!
daggett		That extra chapter by St. John was right. It's a war... Just like the first one. Just like when the angel Michael beat Lucifer and cast him out. Only now they've turned on each other... Turned on each other in a civil war over theology.
daggett		Oh sweet God, theology.  God's morons!
katherine		How do you know know so much about that?
daggett		I just know.  Yes folks, the good news is that there's life after death in heaven. The bad news is that it's as screwed up as here.
katherine		They were like us.
daggett		They are us. Aborted children. And they need us. They need our corrupt, dark souls for their fight. They need...
katherine		...Mary.
daggett		What are you doing?
katherine		I don't know what this is. I don't know what I believe. I don't know if my sanity is lying back in that cave flopping around waiting for me. But I know one thing. Those... Those things aren't taking her!
katherine		In those... visions... did you ever see... God?
daggett		No.
katherine		Me either.
katherine		Mary?
daggett		Get away from her.
gabriel		You know. Son of a bitch, the priest wanna-be actually figured it out. That's a rare club, son. At least down here.
daggett		Back away from the kid, man. Now.
gabriel		She won't feel anything, honest. I'll have to tear her apart of course -- just the way it goes -- but it'll be all right in the end. A good catholic boy like you, Mr. Daggett, you should be on my side.
daggett		Goddamn it --
gabriel		You're gonna have to watch that profanity.
gabriel		It'll only be a moment...
jerry		Thanks man, I appreciate it. You're a sport.
gabriel		You little pest, do you have any idea how hard it is to get one of those?
katherine		You son of a bitch, why? Why do this?
gabriel		Because I'm an angel, you miserable wretch! I kill first borns while their mothers watch! I turn whole cities into salt! I even, when I feel like it, rip the souls from little girls! And from now until eternity, the only thing you'll be able to count on in your pathetic little existence is never knowing why!  C'mon petunia, let's get on with it...
daggett		Go. Go!
katherine		...You...
katherine		...Can't...
katherine		...Have Her!!
daggett		 Where...
katherine		She was coming up the street.
mary		Is Gabriel dead?
mary		They're not like you and me. You've got to cut their hearts out. The only thing God gave them.
deputy		What the hell happened here?
daggett		LAPD.
deputy		 That's a start. How about the rest of it?
daggett		That man over there. He's wanted. Murder. I'm taking him in.  -- Shit...
deputy		I think you're going to the hospital first.
daggett		-- No, I have to --
deputy		Is he alive?
deputy		Cuff him. We'll take him to the hospital in our car.
daggett		-- No, you don't understand. You have to let me have him --
daggett		 You'll never hold him.
daggett		Take off his sunglasses... Jesus Christ, just take off his sunglasses...
fireman		 He'll be all right. Just a bad hit.
fireman		 Let's get a splint.
daggett		We have to get out of here.
katherine		But your head...
daggett		If you want Mary to stay alive past sundown we have to leave, and we have to do it now.
daggett		Where are we going?
katherine		Mary's village.
telephone voice		County Coroner's office, Assistant Coroner Raphael speaking.
daggett		Willie?
voice		Tom?
daggett		You weren't crazy, man.
daggett		So what's the deal, huh?
daggett		I mean, do you have any kind of plan here? Cause I'm just about of ideas, friend.
daggett		Do you even listen? Do you still come to places like this? Old Man, you have been calling me most of my goddamn life, but every time I get close, you just keep moving that far away. What's it to be? You want me to kill your henchmen? Can't you even control your own killers anymore?
daggett		What do you want from me!
old man		I am Bartholomew Grey Horse, born to the Deer Spring Clan, born for the Slow Talking People. Today I am the yataalii for Mary Tsosie of the Bitter Sky Clan.
grey horse		Ya-tah.
grandmother		Ya-tah-hey.
mary		This is a good place.
daggett		Yes?
mary		Separate water source. Stocked grain. Only one possible approach. A man could, with the proper defenses, hold off an entire battalion for weeks. Months.
daggett		Which one of you is that talking, Mary? Or do you even know anymore?
grey horse		We will start the Sing soon to remove the Yei spirit and stop the ghost sickness.
daggett		This might not be the work of a Navaho ghost.
grey horse		It's all the same.
grandmother		Now we sleep, Katherine. Tomorrow, after dark, we begin again.
voice		Hello, Katherine.
katherine		Oh Lord, I can't do this. I can't do this anymore...
figure		We must talk, Katherine.
katherine		You're... You're...  ...God?
figure		God is love, Katherine.
figure		-- I don't love you.
katherine		I can't. I can't do this tonight. Go away.
figure		I can kill you, Katherine. I can lay you out and fill your mouth with your mother's feces. Or I can talk with you.
figure		I am here, before you, in a form to put you at ease.
katherine		Good job.
figure		I rarely do this in person. I am, perhaps, somewhat out of touch.
katherine		Are you one of them?
figure		No.
katherine		You're not an angel?
figure		Oh, I am an angel. A very special one. The first. The oldest. The naive eagle scout, he once loved me above all others, and I him. It was the only true love for either of us, but like all true love, it couldn't possibly last.
figure		The winged party boys will come, Katherine. They'll come to feed on the guts of your little Mary.
katherine		What do you care?
figure		I have my interests...
figure		The naive eagle scout, he has his interests too. He even has a place for them, as I do for mine. Big, shiny place. You'd like it. Only it's been empty for a long time. Can't open till after the resurrection. The problem's with the hired help. Always had problems with the hired help. They're arrogant, boastful little pricks. Not like me. What I did I did for love. But they, the winged party boys, even before the park could open for its first customer, they started fighting over the popcorn stand.
figure		You see, Katherine, heaven can't start accepting guests till this fight is settled. And without people, there is no heaven. All those good and true souls left mouldering in the ground clutching their H-tickets and waiting and waiting and waiting... Some, lying down there with the worms century after century, they start to get doubts about the whole program. That's when, out of sheer boredom, some of them come to me. Because I'm always open for business. 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Even on Christmas.
figure		Some of the angels cheat. They sneak a few souls in to help with the fight. The really dark ones. And now one of them has found a special soul so wonderfully sick that it might just win it for them. And if one side wins, even the wrong one, then there's no fight. And if there's no fight, there can be a heaven.
katherine		And if there's a heaven?
figure		I'd be very unhappy.  I am here to help you and the little bitch not because I love you, not because I care about you, but because I want this war to go on and on and on.
figure		I bring you the chance to save your Mary, Katherine. And along the way, stop the resurrection.
katherine		How?
figure		Listen when I speak. Now go to bed, Katherine. Tomorrow, I promise you, is a big day.
daggett		Is it over?
katherine		For now. They start again tomorrow.
daggett		And at the end of it?
katherine		The Enemy Way chant removes the invading yei ghost.
daggett		Will it work on a general's soul?
katherine		We'll see.  How's the head?
daggett		Still attached. Barely.
katherine		Here, I'll change the bandage.
katherine		Does that hurt?
daggett		No.
katherine		Then I must be doing it wrong.
katherine		I saw the devil tonight.
daggett		How nice. Which one?
katherine		The main one. Satan. Lucifer. The dark angel. You know.
daggett		What did he have to say?
katherine		That he did it all for love. That and I have a choice. Mary's life or a billion souls waiting in the pipeline for heavenland to open.
daggett		You're not kidding, are you?
katherine		No sir.
daggett		Satan? You're sure?
katherine		You had to be there.
daggett		Why wasn't I!
katherine		We can double date next time if it's that important to you.
daggett		You don't understand, I've spent my whole life...  I don't suppose it would occur to anyone in authority to fill me in on what's going on every once in awhile, huh? Shit!
daggett		Did he say anything about the Nicene Council? About the rank of Jesus Christ in the holy Trinity?
katherine		It didn't seem important to him.
katherine		Are you a priest?
daggett		A near miss.
katherine		Why?
daggett		It's a long story.
katherine		This may be your last chance to tell it.
daggett		The other night, you were talking about waiting for a voice to call you to something. Well, let me tell you, the worst thing that can happen to you is to be called to something. Since I can remember a voice from somewhere deep in the Church called me. So loud and so often that by thirteen I knew I was going to be a priest. You know what that's like? My parents, friends, all of them thought I was crazy. But see, I had this voice. The voice that kept coaxing me along, telling me there was a reason. So I entered the seminary and was half way to my starched white collar when my mother, father, and my little brother were wiped out in a car crash.
daggett		I had never asked anything of the voice. Not when the neighborhood kids made fun of me, not when my father looked down at me like some knock-kneed faggot. I never questioned a damn thing. But on the morning I spent looking down at three parallel graves, I asked it one question. Why. Why were these people taken from me? And the voice, that same voice that would wrench me out of my sleep some nights with its jabbering, it was suddenly stone silent. It was the only question I ever asked of it and it just left me hanging in the fucking wind...
daggett		So after that I traded in priest school for homicide school. Because if God wouldn't talk to me the devil sure as hell would, and his ways were a lot easier to understand.
katherine		We've never seen God, have we? Not in any of this.
daggett		Yeah, He's certainly a shy son of a bitch, I'll give Him that.
katherine		Maybe we're not supposed to. Maybe that's faith.
daggett		Do you still have faith in anything, Katherine?
katherine		I have faith in Mary. And that I'm going to save that little girl from those creeping things out there. From all of them.
daggett		Maybe you were called to something after all.
katherine		Maybe we both were.
gabriel		Heavy sleeper, John.
john		Don't -- Don't hurt me, man. My wallet's in the dresser.
gabriel		Don't be such a materialist, John.  No end to your bad habits.
john		What do you want?
gabriel		A moment of your time.
john		You ought to have that nose looked at, man.
gabriel		Where are they, John? Katherine and Mary? Where would they go?
john		What? Mary? I don't know.
gabriel		Sure you do. Think hard.
john		No, really. I don't know. The school maybe.
gabriel		Now you're not even trying, John. You're Katherine's best friend. She tells you everything.
john		I'm just the driver, y'know?
gabriel		I can help you remember, John...
nurse		Can I help you?
gabriel		Someone's going to die here soon. I'll just be a minute.
nurse		There's no visitors allowed in ICU.
gabriel		The timing's important. I can smell these things, you know.
gabriel		Go to sleep.
gabriel		Recovering... Recovering... Stable...  Deteriorating critical.
gabriel		Whoa, not just yet. Come on back. That's it...
gabriel		Hi.
woman		No, no...
gabriel		Hey, c'mon, don't start...  Promise.
mary		Hi, Miss Henley.
katherine		Hi, pumpkin. Good morning.
katherine		How's the head?
daggett		Shitty. Coffee?
katherine		What are we going to do if he comes?
daggett		You mean when, right?
katherine		When he comes.
daggett		There's no phone here? Radio?  If we were smart we'd leave. Get to a town. A sheriff station.
katherine		Mary's ceremony isn't over yet. The Enemy Ghost Way. The alien spirit hasn't been driven out.
daggett		Do you really believe in the ceremony?
katherine		Would you have believed in any of this three days ago?
daggett		 So we stay and dump the General's soul.
katherine		You have the gun?
daggett		With one shot left. The spares --  We're going to have to come up with something.
katherine		We could always ask him.
lucifer		I always forget how cold it gets in the desert.
lucifer		Mr. Daggett, I presume. How's the faith?
lucifer		Come come, must you be so wishy-washy about everything? With the absent- minded eagle scout, I can see that. But you're looking at the devil man, say something.
daggett		Fuck you.
lucifer		Much better. Can I have some coffee?
daggett		Keep it.
lucifer		I have come to remind you that the winged party boys are just that: spoiled boys. You are armed, however pathetically, with the one thing they never really understood: theology. It's not much, but that's life.
daggett		Is this supposed to be our "win one for The Ripper" speech?
lucifer		Don't press your luck, Mr. Daggett.
lucifer		Go and get ready, Thomas.
lucifer		Have you ever considered Katherine, that the great absentee landlord, the soft-eyed eagle scout your childhood prayers are for, is just using you? That you're only the exterminator to get rid of his pests?
lucifer		God's junkies are coming, Katherine. And when they do, all hell is going to break loose...
gabriel		Say, Ma'am, any idea where I can find Old Woman Butte?
madge		It's on the reservation.
gabriel		I don't suppose you could be just a tad more specific. Madge.
madge		Isn't your friend hungry?
gabriel		Not for a while, I'm afraid. Funniest thing.
madge		Take 522 to the Sonsela Wash cut- off. First dirt road go left. Twenty, twenty-five miles you'll see it. Big, black and all alone.
gabriel		I doubt we'll meet again.
madge		Suits me.
daggett		You could always lend a hand.
katherine		He's coming.
daggett		Is there any way to speed this up?
villager		No.
daggett		Lock the door.
daggett		Stay inside. It's only one round, so make it count.
gabriel		You'll like this, Rachael.
gabriel		 Nice move.
gabriel		You ought to come work for us. Upstairs. We sneak the odd civilian in now and then, you know. You'd like it. Nobody tells you when to go to bed, can eat all the ice cream you want. And you get to kill. All day and all night. Just like an angel.
gabriel		Save yourself, friend. Why go to the wall with the bitch and her rug rat? It'll all turn out the same anyway. Here or in heaven, we're still gonna tear the kid apart.
daggett		I'm not an angel, heaven or hell. I'm a man you eyeless puke, which means I have one thing you never will. A soul. And though I may, somewhere inside, believe in a God, I will never, never, believe in you.
gabriel		A little speechy today, aren't we?  Okay pal, have it your way.
gabriel		This is going to really, really hurt.
daggett		...You -- your war...
gabriel		C'mon, son, out with it. Make this one count.
daggett		Your war's a lie!
gabriel		 What?
daggett		Running around acting like this is really about whether Christ is just the son of God or if he is God. Bullshit! That's not what this is about at all, is it?
gabriel		You're wrong.
daggett		Then prove it to me, Gabriel. I studied three fucking years of theology before I picked up a gun. C'mon, you're chief goddamn angel, I'm just a little man. Prove to me Christ is just a son and less than God. Prove it!
gabriel		I don't have to.
daggett		Because you can't! Because this war isn't about some obscure medieval hangup. You're just jealous.
gabriel		You're wrong!
daggett		Try me, Gabriel. Go on. Prove to me the temporal nature of the Trinity. Show me through logic how the Son of the Word can be separated from the Father. Fight me with philosophy, Gabriel!
gabriel		No!
daggett		Because you and your army are wrong! And you know it. You knew it sixteen centuries ago.
gabriel		We don't have to listen to him! He's just a son!
daggett		That's it. You're jealous. Jealous He could love something more than you...
gabriel		 Shut up...
daggett		If you wanted to know so badly, Gabriel, why didn't you just ask Him? Why didn't you just ask God?
gabriel		Because He doesn't talk to us anymore!
gabriel		Relax folks, it's just a soul.
gabriel		I'm getting real tired of you.
katherine		Go to hell.
gabriel		Heaven, darling. Heaven. At least get the zip code right.
katherine		It's all the same, isn't it?
gabriel		No. In heaven we believe in love.
katherine		And what do you love, Gabriel?
gabriel		-- Cracking your skull.
katherine		That's all it is for you anymore, Gabriel, isn't it? Just the killing and the burning. You don't work for God anymore. You don't fight for love.
gabriel		Shut up!
gabriel		God loves you, Mary!
katherine		Finish it.
katherine		Finish it!
katherine		Go home.
lucifer		No.
lucifer		Please. Go on.
gabriel		Oh man, this just isn't my day.
lucifer		Long time.
gabriel		The world's young, man.
lucifer		And full of ambition.
gabriel		This isn't your war.
lucifer		But I remember the last one. Michael's war.
gabriel		You lost.
lucifer		But lots of angels were with me. every one followed their leader out of heaven.
gabriel		Yeah yeah, I was there, remember?
lucifer		Except one. Oh, he was with me all right. He hated the Eagle Scout. Envied the power He gave to His Son. But this angel never came out front during the war. And when it ended he thought maybe, maybe the Eagle Scout didn't notice. So he laid low and towed the company line till he could start his own war. It was all just jealousy.
gabriel		You're dreaming.
lucifer		But maybe He did notice. Maybe that's why I'm here.
gabriel		-- Stay away from me.
lucifer		You've always been a part of me, Gabriel. And now it's time to come home.
gabriel		Fuck you!
grey horse		The enemy spirit is gone.
daggett		 Where?
daggett		More will come... To look for the soul...
katherine		And they won't find it. Not in Mary.
katherine		Can you help him?
villager		We have some bandages.
katherine		Are you all right, pumpkin?
mary		I'm okay.
katherine		It's going to be okay... We're all going to be okay...
katherine		I can't quite bring myself to say thank you.
lucifer		I understand.
katherine		Then this is done.
lucifer		Not necessarily. Maybe I like you. Maybe I want you to come with me.
lucifer		You owe me, Katherine. And you're going to ask me to take you home.
katherine		 No.
lucifer		You will. You will because any other way is going to be more awful than you can imagine.
katherine		Are you threatening me?
katherine		Then you've picked the wrong person this time. I've just about had it up to here with ghosts. So you can put away the horror movie sneer and the K-Mart halloween eyes, because we know you now. We know you all. And if you want to force the issue then go ahead because you're just another angel to me. Take a look at your buddy Gabriel. Then ask yourself, do you really, really want to fuck with us?
lucifer		Perhaps another time.
katherine		I'm holding my breath.
lucifer		Goodbye, Katherine. For now.
mary		Is he coming back?
katherine		I don't think so, honey... I don't think so...
sheriff		 Is he going to live?
deputy		With any luck.
sheriff		 I thought I told you to give me a call if anything snarled.
daggett		There wasn't a phone.
sheriff		Hmmm.
sheriff		This fella, Gabriel...
daggett		Yeah.
sheriff		Gabriel what?
daggett		Just Gabriel.
sheriff		Pretty violent guy, Gabriel. Even for out here.
daggett		Yeah.
sheriff		Caught up with him at the village?
daggett		He caught up with me.
sheriff		What were you doing way up here?
daggett		Enemy Ghost Way for Mary Tsosie.
sheriff		Indian stuff.
daggett		Yeah. Indian stuff.
sheriff		Did you kill this Gabriel?
daggett		Maybe. I think so.
sheriff		Don't have any idea where the body is I suppose.
daggett		No.
sheriff		Well, if he's alive he won't get far out there. Us or the coyotes, it'll be the same.  I rang your office in LA. They don't have a warrant out for a Gabriel. Or anybody else in Arizona.
daggett		I hadn't gotten around to it.
sheriff		Sort of an out of pocket thing.
daggett		Yes.
sheriff		That woman lying at the bottom of the arroyo, the one still in her hospital gown, know anything about that?
daggett		No.
sheriff		Really.
daggett		Really.
sheriff		This Gabriel was sure one busy dude.
daggett		Yes, he was.
sheriff		You'll be going back to Los Angeles now?
daggett		Yeah.
sheriff		Don't hurry back.
deputy		Don't do much but breathe the next few days. And get to a hospital. You're going to need some serious stitches.
daggett		Thanks.
deputy		Say hi to Hollywood for me.
mary		You look bad.
daggett		Thank you. I feel worse.  They lean on you much?
katherine		Not really. I think they might have even understood. One of them's related to this clan. He'll give us a ride back if we want.
daggett		Good. I think I've about run out of hospitality with the sheriff's department.
katherine		Do you think it's really over?
daggett		Till we die.
katherine		When I die, I want you with me.
daggett		I want that too.
****Dialogues from script :Proposal.txt****

richard		Where are my clothes? A blob beneath the sheets next to him answers.   SIMONE is the model on the walls and is really, really hot.
simone		In the kitchen.   I think.   Can I make you some coffee?
richard		Sorry, I gotta go.   I'm late. Richard hurries to the kitchen.   Socks are on the butcher block next to an empty champagne bottle.   Shoes in the sink.   He finds his pants on the floor and puts them on. RICHARD  Have you seen my belt? Simone looks around and sees it tied to her headboard.
simone		In here. She unties the complicated knot.   Richard comes back half dressed.   He swallows a little throwup.
richard		Baby, I just can't do this anymore.
richard		You're just too much for me.   And I'm just another guy too wrapped up in his job.
simone		Fine.   Whatever.   Just go. Richard sits down on the bed and locks eyes with Simone.
richard		Let's not end it like that. It's been an amazing three and a half weeks.   Thank you. And you should know that you have the nicest ass I've ever been with.
richard		I do.   It's magnificent.
simone		I work really hard on it.
richard		I know you do. Simone smiles and begins to seductively pull the sheets off her naked body.   Richard shakes his head "no" and smiles. RICHARD  I really gotta go.
margaret		 I knew you would call!   Now come on, tell me what I want to hear.   Give it to me.
doorman		You have to put it by your mouth so people can hear you.
margaret		You should get paid extra for being so darn funny. Margaret straightens her jacket, answers the phone, and walks out the door. MARGARET  This is Margaret.
jillian		You're running late today.
richard		Jillian, you are the best.
jillian		If you think I'm good at this, you should use that coffee cup sometime. As he runs out the door, Richard glances at his cup and smiles at Jillian's name and phone number written in Sharpie.
richard		See ya tomorrow.
richard		She doesn't exactly consult with me on these things.
richard		Welcome to my nightmare. The doors close as...
margaret		You've been thinking about our talk because I'm right.   Everyone does publicity.   Roth, McCourt, Russo.   Hell, Chabon practically whores himself.   Know what they have in common?   A Pulitzer.  Yes, I know you haven't done it in twenty years, but that's how long it's been since you've written a book this good.
margaret		I'm not pushing so you'll sell more books, I'm pushing because it'll be a crime if the world doesn't hear that you wrote a genius piece of literature.   Do the publicity. Margaret waits for an answer and smiles when she hears "yes." MARGARET  You're making the right decision!   Great news.   Going into an elevator, think I'm going to lose you... Margaret hangs up.   Never give them a chance to change their mind.
receptionist		Good morning! Margaret quickly walks by and gives only the slightest nod.
richard		You've got a conference call in thirty, a staff meeting at nine, and your immigration lawyer sent some papers for you to sign.
margaret		Cancel the call, move the meeting to eight,
richard		Nice job.
margaret		When I want your praise, I'll ask for it. Is Bob here?
richard		I'm sure.   You want him on the phone?
margaret		We're going to his office.   Grab your pad. Richard calmly backs out of the office...
margaret		That's cute.   You gonna call her today?
richard		What? Richard doesn't know what Margaret is talking about, until she nods at the cup.   He's embarrassed.
margaret		Are you bored here?   Do you need little distractions like that to get you through the day?
richard		Uh...
margaret		You have another late night out?
margaret		I'm firing on all cylinders and you've got hearts on your coffee cup, wicked bed head, and a wrinkled suit that you wore yesterday.
richard		Oh.   Well, it won't be wrinkled for long.
margaret		You'll magically unwrinkle?
richard		Yes.
margaret		You have magic pants?
richard		No.   I've sprayed them with stuff that will take care of the wrinkles.
margaret		Does this work on more than just your pants?
richard		Anything that's wrinkled.
margaret		Buy me some.
richard		Will do. Richard makes a note.   Margaret stops to make her point.
margaret		I don't care what or who you do on your own time, but when you walk through that door you represent me, and I will not have your personal life affect you at work.   If you want me to think of promoting you to editor, I need you sharp, focused and professional. Got it?
richard		Got it.
margaret		Great.   Now you're just a prop in here, so don't say a word.
margaret		Hey, Bob.
bob		Ah.   Our fearless leader and her liege. Margaret smiles.
margaret		I'm lettin' you go, Bob.
bob		Pardon?
margaret		You're fired.
bob		What?   What are you talking about?
margaret		This isn't working out.
bob		You can't...
margaret		I asked you repeatedly to get Frank to do publicity.   You said it was impossible.
bob		It is.   He doesn't do publicity.
margaret		I just talked to him.   He's in.
bob		But...
margaret		No more buts, Bob.   I've been chief for a month and a half, and this is the third time you've dropped the ball.   You didn't even call to ask him.
margaret		All you had to do to was pick up the phone. That's it.   Now I'll give you two months to find a new job, and then you can say you resigned.   I won't tell a soul, my lips are sealed. Margaret nods at Richard and he opens the door.
margaret		What's he doing? Richard turns around and takes a peek.   Bob gets out of his chair and comes to his door.
richard		He's up and about to pop.
margaret		Oh Bob, don't do it...
margaret		What are you doing?   I gave you a civilized way out of this.
bob		This is because I'm your competition. Because I threaten you!
margaret		Oh, Bob.   You could never threaten me.   I'm firing you because you're lazy, entitled and incompetent.   I'm firing you because you don't work hard.   So if you know what's good for you, you'll shut up, take off that ridiculous bow tie, find a bar and get drunk.   Because if you say one more word, Richard here is going to call security and have you thrown out on your ass.   Are we perfectly clear? Bob nods. MARGARET  Good.   Now I've got work to do, so if you'll
richard		No problem.   I'll just cancel my trip this weekend.
margaret		I gave you the weekend off?
richard		It was my Grandma's ninetieth birthday. But no big deal.   You were right before, I need to stay focused.   Professional.
richard		Well tell gammy that I'm sorry.  Sorry about that.   Damage control.
margaret		She tell you to quit?
richard		No.   No.  Um.   Yes?   But as I've explained to them, after three years together, you're the only person on the planet who can make me editor, so that's the way it is. Richard's phone rings and he picks it up.
margaret		Who is this guy?
richard		He said you knew each other.   You weren't sure so you told me to set a meeting.   We rescheduled on him four times.
margaret		Go get him.   But he's out of here in five minutes, we've got work to do. Margaret leaves and goes into her office.
richard		 I'll charge up the cattle prod.
margaret		Yeah.   Well, those announcements are silly, aren't they?   Like everyone who needs to know doesn't know already. Margaret has been trying to figure out how she knows this man, but now gives up. MARGARET  Have to admit, I can't place where we know each other from. Gilbertson smiles.   He didn't expect her to remember.
margaret		Don't have it...
margaret		Oh my God, you read that manuscript with me? That book is legend.   Without a doubt the worst ever written.
margaret		It was a fever dream!                                         900 offensive and pointless pages, with like 30 characters, who all had some weird disability.   The paraplegic pornographer, and the stuttering scientist?   Oh!   And there was the asthmatic alien chapter -- written entirely in his alien language.
margaret		Did you see the pass letter I wrote him?
margaret		You wrote the book.
margaret		You're Dante Dickens?
margaret		I'm sorry if I hurt your feelings.   You obviously were spending a lot of time writing, I just thought you should channel all that passion into something else. Gilbertson smiles as he pulls a BADGE from his coat pocket.
margaret		Excuse me?   What?   This is a mistake.   I've lived here since 1981.   I'm applying for citizenship.
margaret		Yes.   And all the papers are in. Gilbertson pulls out a stack of papers and throws them down.
margaret		I'm a threat to the sovereignty of the United States?
margaret		"Affect me at work?"   I'll lose my job!
margaret		Oh, no.   No, no, no.   I won't do it.
margaret		Well then, get it published at another house.
margaret		All?
margaret		I'll be fired and laughed out of the industry if I publish that book.
margaret		I will never publish your book.   Ever.
margaret		This is blackmail.   I'll go to your boss.
richard		Excuse me, Ms. Mills, risk management needs you right away. The sight of Richard inspires Margaret.   She turns to Gilbertson with a wicked grin on her face.
margaret		Know what, Dante?   I'm not going anywhere! We're getting married! Richard has no idea what Margaret is talking about.
richard		Who's getting married?
margaret		We are!
richard		You and him?
margaret		Stop playing around, honey. Margaret is all smiles.   Richard is very confused. MARGARET  Mr. Gilbertson is from the INS.   I told him about us.   About us getting married.
richard		Assistant.
margaret		 We're in love.   We tried to fight it.   When it's right, it's right.
margaret		Nope.   True love.   Got it bad.
margaret		Of course we are.
richard		Uh-huh. Margaret smiles and snuggles up to Richard so he can put his arm around her.   Richard is truly afraid. RICHARD  I'm, uh, marrying my boss? Margaret turns and puckers her lips to let Richard know that she's ready for a kiss.   The two slowly begin to come together. Just as their dry lips are about to touch, Richard chickens out and kisses the hair on the top of her head.
margaret		What?
margaret		C'mon.   Answer.   You don't have a choice. Richard doesn't want to do this, but relents.
richard		Plum.
richard		No.   Plum is "smokier" than purple.
richard		Tulips.   But only when they're in season.
richard		Miss Mittens.
margaret		Are we done here?
margaret		No one.   With us working together we decided it would be too much of a scandal if anyone knew.
richard		Nope. Gilbertson smiles and puts down his pad.
margaret		We're telling his family this weekend.
richard		We are?
margaret		Yes.   We are.   We're surprising them...  ...at his Grandma's 90th birthday party.
margaret		 At Richard's parent's house.
margaret		 In his hometown.
richard		Sitka.
margaret		Why don't you tell him?
richard		Alaska.
margaret		 Yes.   Of course we're going to Alaska. That's where Richard is from. Gilbertson begins to walk around.   He's getting worked up.
richard		Assistant.
margaret		I'm sorry, Dante.   Did you not prepare for that? Margaret puts her arm around Richard and waits in silence.
margaret		There are no "T's" or "I's" in "Love" Mr. Gilbertson. Gilbertson leaves and shuts the door hard.   Margaret goes back to her desk like this is all in a days work. MARGARET  Hello?   Richard?   Richard! Richard says his first words since Gilbertson left.
richard		I quit. Richard leaves Margaret's office.   She still has her coffee cup outstretched in her hand.
margaret		Richard, come back here. Margaret tries not to make a scene. MARGARET  Come back to the office! Richard can't take it.   He gets up in Margaret's face.
richard		You shut up.   You just lost your "I get to tell Richard what to do" privileges.
margaret		Well, we need to talk.
richard		You want to talk with me?   Fine.   Grab your broom and let's go. Margaret is dumbstruck.   The receptionist is shocked.   The elevator arrives and Richard gets in.   Margaret follows. As the doors close, Richard shouts out to the receptionist. RICHARD  Watch my phones!
richard		Your plan is psychotic.
margaret		Well I'd rather poke my eyes out than play pretend girlfriend, but this is the big time.   Sometimes you need to sack up.
richard		Aren't Canadians supposed to be nice?
margaret		You wanna be an editor?   You need to make
richard		OK.   Fine.   Then if we "make this happen"? You're promoting me to editor.
margaret		I'm doing what?
richard		We go to Alaska and lie to my family?   I risk going to jail?   Well, you're making me editor for that.   I mean, did you think I'd do this out of the kindness of my heart?
margaret		You work for me!
richard		You know, during my employee orientation, the HR rep didn't mention anything about me marrying you.
margaret		Look, I came to this town alone and with nothing.   I've worked my ass off for fifteen years and this guy wants to ruin me because he wrote the shittiest book of all time?   No way.
richard		Nice story Little Orphan Annie, but that sounds like your problem.   Not mine. Margaret is stuck.   Richard really does have the upper hand.
margaret		Fine.   You take me to Alaska this weekend, and I'll make you editor.   Deal? Margaret puts out her hand to shake, Richard takes it. MARGARET  And I'm not sleeping on your parent's hide-a- bed, we're staying in a hotel.   Do they even have hotels in Alaska?
richard		No.   But they have huts.   Teepees really. And you have to poop in a bucket.   But otherwise, just like the Four Seasons.   But with bears.
richard		Um.   Shouldn't we talk about what we're going to say to my parents? Margaret doesn't look up, annoyed with the question.
margaret		Are you done with the press release?
richard		Almost.
margaret		So what do I need to know up there?   Bullet points.
richard		I told em we've been dating for six months. We've kept it a secret from everyone...  ...and that you're a naughty minx in the sack. Richard and Margaret make it to the attendant at the gate. Margaret is not amused by Richard's attempt at humor.
richard		Bringing her home to meet my folks.   She's
gate attendant		 I don't care, sir. Richard finds his boarding pass and hands it over.
richard		OK then.   You're a sweet lady.   Thanks. Richard hustles to the plane as they shut the doors.
margaret		I'm sorry, I hate it when people stare at what I'm reading.   It's just... I worked on that book.
handsome man		You wrote it?
margaret		Edited it.   It was one of my favorites.
handsome man		Well you did a good job.   It's great.
margaret		You don't see many guys with that book. You, uh, read a lot of love stories about Roman concubines?
handsome man		My ex-girlfriend gave it to me.   I travel a lot for work.   I'll read anything...
handsome man		 OK, you got me.   I'm a closet romantic.   But let's keep that between us. Margaret smiles and makes the "my lips are sealed" motion.   Just then, Richard lumbers onto the plane with the bags.
margaret		There you are.   Give me my lap top. Richard untangles the bags and gives Margaret her computer bag.
richard		 Hey, he's reading...
margaret		I know, Richard. Richard turns around and puts the bags in the overhead compartment.   The Handsome Man turns to Margaret.
handsome man		Did you two want to sit together?
margaret		Sit together with who? The Handsome man nods at Richard.
handsome man		Your boyfriend? Margaret points to Richard indignantly.
margaret		You mean him? The Handsome man nods.   Margaret tries to set the record straight. MARGARET  No.   No.   No.   He's my assistant.
handsome man		You're bringing your assistant all the way to Alaska? Richard smiles, happy that Margaret has to answer.
richard		Oh, you can tell him the truth.
margaret		Well, he's... indispensable.
richard		That's me. Richard turns to close the overhead compartment.
handsome man		You're awfully nice to fly him first class. Margaret nods her head and agrees.   It sucks to be Richard.
all		There he is!!!   Where's Margaret? Richard blanches white.   Margaret looks back with eyes that say "What the hell is going on?"
handsome man		 That's sweet. Richard goes over to the group.   Margaret keeps walking.
richard		What are you guys doing here?   What's with the sign?
debbie		So you're "just dating," huh?   I can't believe you didn't tell us!
richard		Didn't tell you what?
annie		We're not saying anything until you let us meet Margaret.   Now, where's our girl? Richard looks around.   Margaret keeps her head down and tries to avoid eye contact.
richard		Uh.   Margaret?   You need to come over here. Like now.   Honey. The Handsome Man sees Richard with the banner people, calling for Margaret to come over.   Margaret winces.
margaret		I have to go now.
handsome man		 What kind of sick shit is this? Margaret nods.   This would be a tough one to explain.
margaret		Have a great life. Margaret walks toward the group.   Richard puts out his hand and silently pleads for Margaret to hold it.   At the last second, she takes it.
richard		Everyone, this is Margaret.
grandma annie		It's nice to meet you.   Now, do you prefer being called Margaret, or the Dragon Lady? We've heard it both ways. Everyone laughs.
debbie		Annnie!
grandma annie		It's not like he hasn't told her that he used to call her the Dragon Lady.   They're getting married.
richard		 Now, ah, where did you hear that?   The whole "getting married" thing?
debbie		Oh, that man from the government.   Gilber- something.   Said he was checking up on you two.   Said it was technicality, because Margaret was from Canada.
richard		What, ah, did you tell him?
debbie		Well for one thing, that you were in a lot of trouble for not telling us that you two were getting married!
richard		No.   Really.   What did you say?
debbie		Just that you were coming up here this weekend.   That we hadn't seen you in a while, and that we'd heard about Margaret for years, but that we'd never met her. Debbie turns to Margaret and takes both of her hands. DEBBIE  The way that Richard talked about you?   I'll admit, I didn't see this coming.
margaret		Me neither. Debbie picks up some of the bags and starts walking toward the exit.   Everyone else follows her lead.
debbie		So why all the silly secrecy?
richard		It wasn't a secret.   We didn't tell anyone.
debbie		Well, is your family just anyone?
richard		No, I didn't mean...
debbie		I should be mad at you two.   But, but... I'm just so excited!
margaret		 Uh, is everyone coming to our hotel?
grandma annie		Oh, we cancelled your reservation.   You're part of the family now.     Family doesn't stay at a hotel.   Also, we've got another little surprise for you two.
margaret		Surprise?   Another surprise?
richard		She's not good with surprises.
margaret		I'm really not good with surprises.
debbie		Well you two...
grandma annie		...you're getting married this weekend!
debbie		When Gilber-something told us you were getting married...
debbie		...God rest their souls...
grandma annie		...or friends...
debbie		...we decided to give you a wedding.
grandma annie		Engagement party tonight...
debbie		...and the wedding tomorrow at midnight. Debbie and Annie wait to see what Margaret thinks.
margaret		Are you witches?
grandma annie		Just quaint.   During the solstice it's good luck.   It's an Alaskan thing.
debbie		We've planned everything. Margaret isn't sold, so Grandma Annie goes for the clincher.
grandma annie		I'm old, Margaret.   I don't have much time left.   Richard lives so far away, and I never see him.   Now I find out he's getting married, and I have a chance to see my one grandchild's wedding day.   It's a dream come true for me.   A dream come true.   Please let me see Richard get married before I die. Please. Long beat.   Richard doesn't know what Margaret is going to say. Margaret doesn't know what Margaret is going to say.   Finally, she goes to speak, but can only get out... two big thumbs up. The crowd cheers.
grandma annie		To tell you the truth, we had a lot of the plans made already for my birthday.   Just a few changes here and there, and we made this weekend a wedding. Margaret stares at Richard.
margaret		I'm a lucky woman. Margaret does her best to smile.
margaret		I'm not getting out of this car until you tell me where we're going.
richard		Come on, it'll be OK.   I promise. Richard points to a small island about a mile away.
margaret		Who are you people? Richard lets Margaret wonder.
geoffrey		So you must be Margaret.   We've heard a lot about you.   All of it bad. Margaret tentatively walks off the yacht in her none to practical sling backs. GEOFFREY  I mean, I almost shit myself when I heard he was marrying the devil woman.
margaret		I thought it was the dragon lady?
geoffrey		Either way.
richard		Hey dad. Richard shakes his father's hand.   It's a little stiff.
geoffrey		Welcome home.   Good to see ya.
richard		You too.
geoffrey		Been a while.
richard		Yeah.   You'd think you could make it to the airport to mark the occasion. Grandma Annie interrupts.
grandma annie		Help him with the bags Geoffrey.  Let's get you two settled. As Richard and Margaret move towards the house, Annie shoots Geoffrey a look that says "be nice".
debbie		We'll show you around later.
margaret		Uh huh.
debbie		Balzac!   Down!   No! Debbie pulls the dog off of Margaret and pushes him toward the kitchen.   Margaret tries to take it in stride and make small talk.
margaret		What a great name.   Balzac's "Lost Illusions" is one of my favorite novels.
debbie		Oh.   Well, this Balzac's got epididymitis. Debbie makes two big circles with her pointer fingers to illustrate how Balzac really got his name. Not understanding, Margaret looks over at Balzac as he walks away.   Off her shocked reaction, we understand right away that this puppy Husky is an anatomic marvel. DEBBIE  No one on the island wanted him when he was born.   We figured he deserved a home.
geoffrey		And don't let him outside, or the eagles will snatch him.
richard		C'mon dad...
geoffrey		I mean it.   They come out of that rehabilitation center mean.   And hungry.
richard		Don't listen to him, Margaret.
debbie		You'll be sleeping here.
debbie		Bathroom is there, all the towels are in the armoire by the bed.   Just let me know if you
margaret		Thank you.   Where's Richard's room?
debbie		Oh, we took down his "shrine" years ago. And don't worry, I'm under no illusion that you two haven't slept in the same bed before.   Richard can sleep here too.
margaret		Oh, let's not upset Grandma Annie.
debbie		It was her idea.   Anything to help get her a great grandchild. Richard shrugs his shoulders behind his mother.
margaret		Great.   You know, I've gotten used to his breathing at night.
debbie		I thought so dear. Debbie leaves and shuts the door.   Margaret reverts back to her old self.
margaret		I'm about 15 seconds from bitch.
richard		Calm down.
margaret		What is going on here?
richard		Hell if I know.
margaret		You had no idea they knew about us getting married?
richard		You think I'd bring you here if I did?
margaret		Well, we just gotta tell em.
richard		Tell em what?
margaret		Tell em the truth.   About us.
richard		Wrong answer.   No way.
margaret		What do you mean no way?   This is crazy.
richard		No, crazy was lying to the federal officer.
margaret		Well I don't like this.
richard		Well I'm not making my Gammy an accomplice to a Class C felony!   For one second could you not be so selfish?
margaret		Selfish?
richard		Yeah, you know, that thing you do where you only worry about yourself every second of every day?
margaret		How is it selfish to tell the truth?
richard		Look.   We're awful, awful people.   In the last forty eight hours, we've lied to... everyone.   We need to protect the people downstairs.   We can't ask these good, decent, not awful people to lie for us. Let's keep the darkside to ourselves. Margaret takes a second to make up her mind.
margaret		Fine.   But if we do this, you need to stop lying to me.
richard		What've I lied to you about?
margaret		Why did you tell me that you were poor?
richard		I never said that.
margaret		Well, you never told me you were rich.
richard		When does that come up?
margaret		I don't know, how about, "Hi, my name is Richard, I'm an Alaskan titan of industry."
richard		Well, maybe I didn't tell you because you would have fired me if you knew.
margaret		No I wouldn't.
richard		Come on!   You're always yammering on about your scrappy childhood, and how you fought for those soccer scholarships, and how the rich kids made fun of you in prep school for working in the kitchen.   You're totally anti- rich.
margaret		I'm not anti-rich.
richard		Oh yes you are!   And you know what makes it worse?   You have money!
margaret		I earned...
richard		...every penny I have.   Blah, blah, blah. You need new material.
margaret		Hey.   Watch it.   You're still my assistant.
richard		You were going to promote me anyway.
margaret		Sure of that?
richard		Nope.   Not at all. Margaret takes a look at herself in the mirror.
margaret		Well, come on.   If we're going to do this, we might as well put on a show.
margaret		I went to Union college in upstate New York. It's a small liberal arts school that no one has ever heard of. Richard comes to the group and hands Margaret a drink. MARGARET  Lime?
richard		Be right back. Richard leaves to fetch lime wedges.   Geoffrey elbows Debbie in the side, "What was that?"
margaret		Since I graduated college. Richard comes back with the lime.   Margaret takes it and doesn't say thank you.
richard		She's been there since she was nineteen.
geoffrey		Nineteen?   Wow.   That's how long?
margaret		Oh, who's counting... Geoffrey could let it go, but wants to push her.
geoffrey		No.   How many years is that?   Exactly. Margaret gives Geoffrey the slightest look.
margaret		Well, let me see.   That would be sixteen or seventeen years.   Exactly.
geoffrey		I was never good with big numbers.   That makes you... thirty six now?
margaret		Just turned thirty seven.   Born on May 20th. I'm a Taurus. Geoffrey and Margaret give each other a smile. MARGARET  I need some protein.
richard		There's some salmon. Margaret shakes her head no. RICHARD  Crab? Margaret nods yes.   Richard steps away to find a waiter. Geoffrey watches his son do Margaret's bidding.
geoffrey		Keep him on a short leash, huh?   Does he roll over when you whistle? Debbie hits Geoffrey.
debbie		He's just being a good host. Richard comes right back with a waiter in tow.   For Geoffrey's benefit, Margaret makes a point to thank Richard.
margaret		Thank you, honey.   You're being so sweet. Richard is surprised, but remembers they're a couple.
richard		Uh, sure.   Honey.
margaret		I'm editor in chief, now. Richard tenderly puts his arm around Margaret.
richard		Gert!? Richard snaps his arm back, hitting Margaret in the head, and spilling her tonic water on her shirt.   He doesn't notice what he's done, and leaves Margaret.   She's peeved. RICHARD 
gertrude		Your dad made me come.
richard		From Chicago? Gertrude laughs.   The group watches these two see each for the first time in years.   There is instant chemistry, and Richard has forgotten about Margaret completely.
gertrude		No.   I live here now.
richard		You what?
gertrude		I moved back about six months ago.   I'm teaching second grade.   At Baranof.
richard		Did your husband move up here too?
gertrude		Uh, no.   I, ah, got divorced.
richard		Oh my God.   I'm sorry.
gertrude		Me too.   But hey, we're being rude, I wanna meet the bride. Gertrude leaves Richard and goes to Margaret.
margaret		You're a Gertrude?
gertrude		A family name from hell.
margaret		I'm sure it's been a curse.
geoffrey		Gert and Richard were quite the item in high school. Gertrude instantly dismisses Geoffrey's reminiscence.
gertrude		Oh Please.   Ancient history.
geoffrey		Feels like yesterday to me.
gertrude		 So tell me everything.   I hear it wasn't exactly love at first sight?
margaret		Not exactly...
grandma annie		Now Richard, what I want to know is how you proposed. This grabs the group's full attention.   Everyone loves to hear a story like this.
richard		Well... Richard hasn't recovered from seeing Gertrude. RICHARD  Uh, uh, um, I...
geoffrey		Yeah.   How did you pop the question? Richard is a deer in the headlights.   This is getting ugly. Margaret sees that Richard is going to crumble, and steps in.
margaret		Can I tell this one, honey?
richard		Uh.   Sure.
margaret		I'm an early, early riser and go for a run everyday.   Well, it was our six month anniversary and I was out for my normal jog in the park, when who do I see in a horse drawn carriage, wearing a tux, and waiting for me halfway through my run?   Richard!   So I ran up to the carriage and asked him what was going on, and he put his finger to his lips and says, "shhhh."   So there I am in my jogging clothes, next to the most handsome mute in the world - have you seen him in a tux? - riding like a sweaty princess and smiling ear to ear.   Couple minutes later, we arrive at Tavern on the Green.   Best part, we're the only people in the place because Richard got them to open up early. Well, we go to our table, sit down, and just as the sun starts to peek above the trees, this beautiful man gets down on one knee, and says "I didn't want one more sunrise to go by without you knowing that you are the light of my life, and that I would be the luckiest man in the world if you would be my wife.   Margaret Mary Mills, will you marry me?" The group is silent, waiting for the clincher. MARGARET  I said yes. The group gives a collective "ahh".   Grandma Annie takes both Margaret and Richard by the hand.
grandma annie		You are a good boy Richard, and you make me very proud.   I love you Richy.
richard		I love you too, Grandma. Grandma hugs the couple.   Everyone smiles except Geoffrey and Gertrude.
geoffrey		So did this happen before or after the INS agent came sniffing around?
debbie		What is wrong with you?   I'm sorry Margaret. Margaret doesn't miss a beat.
margaret		Oh please.   I'd wonder too.   Honestly, my lawyers have been dealing with all of this. When you told us at the airport it was the first time I'd heard about it.   I'm so embarrassed.
debbie		Don't be, dear.   Geoffrey's just an ass. While Debbie apologizes, Margaret gives Richard a little wink that says "I've got this under control".   The moment is interrupted when Richard pulls out a RINGING CELL PHONE.   He takes a step back and answers quietly so no one can hear.
richard		Margaret Mill's phone.  It's our friend, Frank. Richard's tone let's Margaret know there's a problem.
margaret		Excuse me, I'll just be a second. Margaret takes the phone and exits out French glass doors that lead to the backyard.   She leaves the door open, and doesn't notice Balzac follow her outside.
margaret		Don't be a cliche, Frank.   Don't be the wishy washy writer who changes his mind every two seconds. Margaret notices Balzac, but ignores him.   The dog starts YAPPING to get attention.   She walks away, but Balzac continues barking. Annoyed, she gets down face to face with the puppy and puts the phone against her chest so Frank doesn't hear. MARGARET  Sit and be quiet! Balzac sits and pouts.   Margaret walks away and puts the phone back to her ear.
debbie		Where's Margaret?   We need to go.
richard		Go where?
debbie		It's a surprise.   Girls are going into town. And the boys stay here.   I told you, we've planned everything.
richard		Um.   She's outside. Debbie and Richard turn around and look out a picture window. They see Margaret running with Balzac above her head.
debbie		Oh that's sweet, she's playing with my Balzac.
margaret		This is a delicious dog, Mr. Eagle.   C'mon, bring back the phone. Richard calls out from the house.
richard		What are you doing?
margaret		The eagle took my phone!
richard		Are you drunk?
margaret		Your dad was right!   The eagle tried to take the dog, so I saved it, then it came back and took my phone.
richard		Did the dingo eat your baby, too?
margaret		Frank's going to call me on that phone.   I need it!
richard		Relax.   I've got your information backed up on the laptop.   I'll just get you a new phone and switch the number.   No problem.
margaret		Oh.
richard		Now come on.   You're going somewhere with my mom and the girls.
margaret		I'm not going anywhere.
richard		You want a new phone?   You're going.
debbie		Work it Hank!
gertrude		Is that a salmon down your pants? The room laughs as Hank works his crotch millimeters away from Margaret's face.   Margaret remains straight faced.
margaret		Definitely not a salmon. The women encourage Hank on as he moves Margaret's hands to his wiggling ass and gives her a feel.   She can't help but give and embarrassed smile.   Finally, the song ends and Hank goes into the splits.   Thrilled, the room gives him a standing ovation. Margaret plays along and gives Hank a kiss on the cheek.   She begins to get off the stage, but Hank takes her by the hand.
hank		Ah, ah, ah.   I was just the warm up. Hank sits Margaret down, and blindfolds her with a scarf.
margaret		What's going on?
grandma annie		Just sit there dear.
mc		Don't be shy ladies, tip well and often, show Hank how much you appreciate his assets!   And now... Ramone! The room goes silent as a middle aged RAMONE comes on to the stage.   He has a pot belly, threadbare thong and a thin mustache. Ramone's dance has a Latin theme to it, and he's very good at it. Margaret is oblivious.
margaret		What's that smell? Margaret finally takes off her blindfold, and finds Ramone about an inch away from her face. MARGARET  Ahhh!!! Margaret falls out of her chair and her scream frightens Ramone. After the initial scare he composes himself and wags his finger at her naughty behavior.
ramone		You are a naughty devil. Ramone goes to work another part of the stage, and when he turns, Margaret jumps off the stage and joins the ladies.
margaret		Good lord.
grandma annie		Ramone was the only male dancer on the island for years. No one has the heart to tell him to hang it up.
margaret		Want me to do it?
grandma annie		Thank you dear, but let's keep it our secret.
geoffrey		...yeah, Debbie found these eco-balls that dissolve in the water.
maguire		How does she come up with this shit?
geoffrey		She just does.   I stopped trying to figure out how. Geoffrey and Mr. Maguire see Richard coming their way.   Mr. Maguire yells at Richard like the old family friend he is.
richard		Why's that, Mr. Maguire?
maguire		You fly up here and don't call me?
richard		Sorry bout that.
maguire		What good is me owning an airline if I can't give you free tickets?
richard		You're right.   Don't know what I was thinking...
maguire		Damn, straight.   Don't let it happen again!  Here, you take over.   This game is for pussies, I'm getting a drink. Mr. Maguire leaves, and Richard and Geoffrey are left alone with one another for the first time.   Things are awkward between father and son, and Richard begins hitting balls to avoid conversation.   Geoffrey finally makes small talk.
geoffrey		Maguire's stepping down in January.   He's, uh, handing things over to Matty. Richard gives his dad a look.   He knows where this is going.
richard		That's great for them.
geoffrey		So.   How's work with you?
richard		Good.   Busy.   You know.
geoffrey		I do.   I do.   Hey, did I tell you that we're opening a little office in Japan?
richard		Congratulations.
geoffrey		We're not just a mom and pop operation anymore.   We're going global.
richard		Uh-huh. Geoffrey stops hitting golf balls for a second.   He's been thinking about this moment for a long time.
geoffrey		I could really use your help.
richard		Dad.   Please.   I'm in New York.   Margaret's in New York.   We have jobs.
geoffrey		I know.   I know.   It's just...
geoffrey		You're only a secretary. This pisses Richard off immediately.
richard		Again with the secretary thing!   I've told you, I'm an assistant!
geoffrey		Just because you call yourself an "assistant" doesn't mean you're not really just a secretary.
richard		Well if I'm "just a secretary", why would you want me up here anyway?   Sounds like you're doing great without me.
geoffrey		It's not like that and you know it.
richard		Then how is it?   Explain it to me. Geoffrey looks around to see if anyone is listening.
geoffrey		Last week, a man stuck his finger up my butt...
richard		This man was a doctor?
geoffrey		...and it got me thinking about you.
richard		I'm not sure this is coming out right.
geoffrey		Just shut up for a second, okay?   I want you to have what I built.   But I'm running out of time to show you things.
richard		Stop being so dramatic.
geoffrey		I'm not being...  I need you to stop dicking around down there and get serious.
richard		So this is all about what you want?
geoffrey		That's not what I said.
richard		And me in New York with Margaret?   That isn't serious?
geoffrey		One day the woman is the Antichrist, and the next day she's the love of your life?   How is that serious?
richard		Things change, dad.
richard		Things change.
geoffrey		Things change?
richard		Yes.   Things change.
geoffrey		Things change.   That's your explanation? Know what I think?   I think you banged your boss and fell in love, that's what I think. Some sorta mommy complex.
richard		Nice, dad.   We gotta have these Cosby moments more often.   This is great. Richard drops his club and walks back to the house.
gertrude		They can be a little overwhelming, but they're great people.
margaret		What?   I'm just working on my tan.  It's been a long day. Margaret looks inside and sees that the party is still raging.
gertrude		Around the solstice they don't watch the clock.   Pretty much party til they fall over.
gertrude		I actually missed it when I was in the states.
margaret		Chicago, right?
gertrude		Yeah.   Since college.
margaret		And now you're back?
gertrude		Six months now.   Call me crazy, but I love it.   Think I'm back for good.
margaret		Really?   I don't know.   Don't you miss...
gertrude		Neimans?   Starbucks?   Escalators? Margaret laughs.   She likes this woman. GERTRUDE  Yeah.   I miss it.   Believe me, growing up I never thought I'd end up divorced and back here teaching at my old elementary school. That was always Richard's plan.
margaret		For you to get divorced?
gertrude		 No.   I was going to teach, he was going to run his dad's business.   He was like a little old man.   Had it all worked out.
margaret		Are we talking about the same guy?
gertrude		What do you mean?
margaret		Well, Richard's such a player. Gertrude looks confused. MARGARET  I mean he was a total player.   Before we started dating.   Six months ago.
margaret		That surprises you?
gertrude		Did he ever tell you why we broke up?
margaret		We don't really talk much about stuff like that.
gertrude		Oh.   Well I should shut up...
margaret		No, no.   Please.   I mean, we are getting married.   I want to know these things. Gertrude looks down a little embarrassed.
gertrude		He proposed to me.   When we were seniors. Margaret laughs.
margaret		I'm sorry.   I didn't mean to...   He proposed to you in high school?
gertrude		He bought this sweet little ring, and got down on his knee.   It was so cute.
margaret		You must have...
gertrude		... freaked out?   Oh you bet.   I broke up with him on the spot.
margaret		I would hope so.
gertrude		After getting rejected the first time, I can't imagine how hard it was for him to get up the courage to ask you. Margaret just smiles, feeling guilty about lying when Gertrude is being so honest with her. GERTRUDE  Anyway.   The idea that my little old man could be a player...   It's just not the Richard I knew.   Good thing you're making an honest man of him again.
margaret		I'll be right in. Margaret smiles and turns to the ocean.   Gertrude goes inside. Then, to herself, Margaret silently whispers. MARGARET  We are awful people.
geoffrey		Excuse me?   I'm watching that.
annie		Why is Richard chopping wood?
debbie		And don't play dumb.   What did you do? Geoffrey is uncomfortable answering in front of Margaret.
geoffrey		Nothing.   I didn't do anything... will you please move. The showdown intensifies.   Margaret excuses herself.
margaret		I am so tired. Balzac GROWLS when he hears Margaret's voice.   He's still mad. Margaret just smiles. MARGARET  Think I'm going to take a shower and clean off Ramone's bubble gum body oil. Thanks for a great night. Annie and Debbie smile graciously and wish her good night.   Once she's gone, they turn their death stare back to Geoffrey.   He looks genuinely unnerved.
geoffrey		Stop looking at me like that!
margaret		Richard, is that you?
margaret		Richard, are you... Then out of nowhere, Balzac  startles Margaret.
balzac		Yap, yap, yap, yap, yap! Margaret slips on the wet floor and falls on her ass.   Her foot kicks the door open as she retreats from the vengeful puppy.
margaret		I'm sorry bout the eagle.   But I saved you. Balzac won't listen to reason and barks angrily.   Margaret grabs the ceramic top of the toilet tank to protect herself.
margaret		Will you just hand me a towel! Richard looks for a towel, but forgets he's naked.   When he looks under the bed, Margaret shrieks and covers her eyes.. MARGARET  You're flashing brain! Richard quickly changes positions.   Out of desperation, he pulls the entire comforter off the bed.   He throws it Margaret's way, and she wraps herself in it.
richard		I didn't know you were home!   I was outside chopping wood!
margaret		You didn't hear me?
richard		I had my iPod on!
margaret		I didn't jump you.  I didn't mean to jump you.   I didn't know you were here.
richard		You didn't see me?
margaret		I was running from the dog! Richard looks at Margaret suspiciously.
richard		Wait.   Were you tryin' to seduce me?
margaret		Oh please!   Don't flatter yourself.
richard		Mmm-Hmmm.
margaret		Go take a shower.   You stink.
richard		Fine.   But don't come sneaking in there. You're still my boss.   That'd be sexual harassment.
later		Richard grabs all the pillows, cushions and blankets he can find to create himself makeshift bed on the floor. Margaret turns out the lights, leaving the room still bright with the sun still shining outside.   She gets into her bed.
margaret		I'm never gonna to get to sleep. Richard pushes a button and motorized metal blinds come down outside the window.   The sunlight is instantly blocked out and the room is pitch black. MARGARET  Oh.   Well.   Thanks. Richard settles into his pathetic excuse for a bed.   The two silently lie awake and stare at the dark ceiling.
richard		It was kinda weird seeing you naked.
margaret		Can we not talk about this?
richard		I'm just saying.   It was weird.
margaret		It wasn't weird.
richard		How was that not weird?
margaret		Because we're... like teammates.
richard		We're like teammates?
margaret		We are teammates.   And teammates see each other naked in the locker room.   All the time.   It's not a big deal.
richard		Well, if we're teammates can I sleep in the bed?
margaret		Good night, Richard. The two lay awake in silence for another beat.
richard		Margaret?
margaret		Yes?
richard		Don't take this the wrong way.
margaret		Okay...
richard		You're a very beautiful woman. Margaret smiles with her head turned away from Richard.
margaret		Get some sleep Richard, big day tomorrow.
geoffrey		Yes.   Mr. Gilbertson?   My name is Geoffrey Paxton... Only the animal trophies that adorn Geoffrey's office hear the rest of the conversation.
margaret		Who is it?
richard		What the...
richard		Come on in mom! Debbie enters with a tray of pastries, fruit and coffee. RICHARD  Ah mom, you made your cinnamon rolls.
debbie		Well, it's your special day. Debbie smiles, puts down the tray on a bedside table and sits on the edge of the bed.   She is buzzing with excitement. DEBBIE  You two need your energy, so eat up.   We've got your dress fitting, have to get the house ready, and then your wedding.
richard		I gotta run into town to get Margaret a new phone.
debbie		Will you pick up some champagne while you're there?
richard		No problem.
debbie		And don't be gone for too long.   Lots of work to be done!
margaret		You don't have to go to all this trouble. Really. Debbie sweetly looks back at Margaret.
debbie		Don't be silly.   This is the biggest day of your life.   You are coming into this family, and when it's family, it's no trouble.   If your parents were with us, they would do the exact same. Debbie leaves and Margaret smiles as the door closes.   Richard jumps out of bed and goes to the food.
richard		 I wish she hadn't.   I mean she almost caught us.   Damn, that was close. Like a pig in shit, Richard continues to dig in and doesn't pay attention to Margaret.
margaret		You just take all this for granted?   Your family, this house... Richard takes another big bite and turns to Margaret.
richard		 I'm sorry, what?   You gotta try these. Margaret looks at Richard with disgust.
margaret		Why are you doing this to them?
richard		Huh?
margaret		Why am I here?   You didn't have to bring me here.
richard		You made me bring you here!   You told me I
margaret		I didn't make you do anything.   You could of said no.
richard		And what?   Start over at the bottom again? No way.
margaret		I get why a not rich person would do this. But you've got everything.   It doesn't make any sense.
richard		Know what?   This is none of your business.
margaret		I wish it wasn't my business.   But unfortunately, it has become my business, because I made a deal with someone I thought I could trust. Richard stares at Margaret for a beat.   He's exasperated.
richard		You wanna know why you're here?   I'll show you why you're here.
margaret		Fine.
richard		We leave in a half hour.
margaret		I'll be ready in 20 minutes. Margaret angrily takes a bite of a cinnamon roll and slams it down on the plate.   She goes to her suitcase and looks for clothes.   A beat passes, and she comes back to the rolls. MARGARET  These are really good. She takes a cinnamon roll and leaves.
bek bek		Hey, Richard!   That the lucky lady?
richard		Yes sir, it is!
bek bek		 You look much younger than everyone says.
margaret		That's great to hear.
richard		See ya on the line, Bek Bek.
richard		Put this on.   I'll meet you outside.
margaret		But I don't...
richard		Ah.   Put it on.
margaret		Is this really necessary?
richard		You'll thank me later. Richard walks towards the warehouse.   Margaret follows in her
margaret		Why is he handcuffed to the machine?
richard		So his hands don't go too far.   So he doesn't... Richard makes a chopping motion.   Margaret winces.
margaret		Nice. From the decapitator, fish are fed into the gut puller, where their bellies are slit and the intestines are pulled out. MARGARET  You know, I shouldn't be here.   I was a vegetarian for six months in college. Richard leads Margaret to the end of slime line, where a long line of 20 workers give the fish a final cleaning before they are frozen.   With great speed, they take the fish from the gut puller line and clean out all the left over intestines.
worker		There he is!   Big city boy come to show us how its done.
richard		Ah, it's been a while.
worker		C'mon.   Show her how we do it.
richard		Okay, okay. Richard and Margaret go to the end of the line.   Richard expertly demonstrates with a knife. RICHARD  You grab a fish, but be gentle, cause you don't want to bruise it.   Open her up, tilt the knife, and then pull with the grain of the fish.   Two quick stokes to clear the organs attached to the spine.
margaret		Gimme that. Up to the challenge, she takes the knife and grabs a fish. Margaret puts the knife in and keeps as much distance as possible between her and the salmon.
richard		I did this for five summers.   Dad wanted me to earn my stripes before I took over.
margaret		Is that why you're still pissed at him?
richard		Nah, I loved it here.
margaret		 You loved this?
richard		The slime line?   Hell no.   Nobody loves the slime line.   I loved this place.   The people.   Growing up, running this place was all I wanted. Margaret scrapes a huge glop of guts out of a fish.
richard		I wanted to run this place. It was comfortable here.   It was what I knew.  Don't forget the spine.
margaret		I wasn't gonna forget. Margaret squeezes the blood out of the vein, sends the fish on its way, and grabs another fish with more confidence.
richard		But then things changed.   And it wasn't so comfortable anymore.
margaret		What kind of things changed?
richard		Stuff.
margaret		 You mean, like, Gertrude?
richard		Yeah... Richard stops, he can tell Margaret knows something. RICHARD  Oh my god.   She told you didn't she?
richard		About the... you know.
margaret		The creepy teenage proposal?
richard		Ah, shit!
margaret		You were a freak by the way.
richard		OK, get it all out.
margaret		And she was right to break up with you.
richard		You done? Margaret nods yes.
margaret		For a little while?   Don't sell yourself short.
richard		When Gert crushed my heart into little pieces, a life up here didn't seem so great anymore.
margaret		So you moved to the open arms of New York City?
richard		At first it was about getting as far away from this place as possible, but then I fell in love with it.
margaret		With scheduling my pilates?
richard		With editing.   See, as an only kid I'd always read a lot, but until I worked for you I didn't love it.   I mean, when I realized that we could find the next Cuckoo's Nest, or Catch 22, or...
margaret		 ...To Kill a Mockingbird.   It's all about To Kill a Mockingbird.
richard		Exactly!   We could find the next To Kill a Mockingbird.   God damn, how great is that? Margaret smiles.   She never knew that Richard had this kind of passion for the job. RICHARD  So when I tell my folks that I want to spend my life finding books?   My dad goes ape shit.                                                             "How dare you forsake your family... you'll come crawling back to us... you're nothing without our help."   I left that night and we didn't talk for a year. Haven't been back here since.
margaret		So we're "getting married" so you can give daddy the finger?
richard		No. Margaret gives Richard a disbelieving look. RICHARD  Sorta.   OK, Yes.   Coming back here with you...   I get the promotion and I get to show off.   You're editor in chief.   You make a good prop.
richard		So now you know I'm a petty asshole.   Am I trustworthy again?
margaret		Oh yeah, we're good.   By the way, you're more screwed up than I am, Paxton.
richard		Yeah.   Thanks.
margaret		One more question...
richard		Yes, everyone at work thinks you're a lesbian.
margaret		That wasn't my question.
richard		I know.   Just lashing out. Margaret smiles.
margaret		Can we stop gutting fish?   I need my phone.
richard		Hey Ramone.
ramone		Hey Richard.   Hola mi amo. Margaret recognizes Ramone, the male dancer from last night.
richard		He was my shop teacher.
margaret		Of course he was.   How many people are on this island? They start to fill their cart with cases of champagne.
richard		Like eight thousand?   Depends on the time of the year.
margaret		Feels smaller. With the cart full they head to the checkout.
richard		 You got the phone I called about?
ramone		Charged up, ready to go, number changed. Ramone throws Richard a phone.
richard		Thanks, Ramone.
ramone		No problem. Ramone gives Margaret a flirty wave.   She awkwardly waves back. Richard pushes the cart out the front door and does not pay. Margaret is confused.
margaret		Why's Ramone letting you steal his stuff?
richard		It's our stuff.
margaret		That must have been handy in High School.
richard		You have no idea.
margaret		Should you leave the cart?
richard		It's our cart.   I didn't know you were such a prude.
margaret		I've come to realize that being my assistant gave you more access to my life than I ever imagined, but there are a few things you don't know about me.
richard		I doubt it.   When I started, you were still wearing those Ugg boot things.
margaret		 I told you never to talk about that.
richard		I'm just saying it's been a long time.   I know it all. Margaret turns on her new phone.   It searches for a signal.
margaret		 Did you know I took disco lessons in the sixth grade?
richard		Where?
margaret		The Y.
margaret		Uh, my first concert was Kool and the Gang.
richard		At Woodstock?
margaret		I won tickets on the radio and saw them at the fair.
richard		What'd they sing again?
margaret		You know.
richard		You had a lot of soul there, Canada.
margaret		I really like "The O.C.".   Not fake, ha, ha isn't it funny I like this trash.   I really like it.
richard		Wow.   I'm getting shut out here.
margaret		Allergic to pine nuts.
richard		Knew that.
margaret		Afraid of penguins.
richard		Huh.
margaret		Haven't slept with a man in a year and a half.
richard		Holy shit!   You are a lesbian! A MOTHER walking by with her 7 year old gives Richard a nasty look. RICHARD  My bad. The mother walks on.   Margaret is mortified and walks faster.
margaret		Kool and the Gang gets nothing, but that gets a Holy shit?   I've been busy!
richard		That's a really long time.
margaret		That hurts coming from Mr. Magic Pants.
richard		I knew it had been slow going, but I figured there was a booty call in there somewhere.
margaret		Yeah, well, I'm not good at that.
richard		I find that hard to believe.
margaret		No, not that.   I'm great at that.   Aces. Top notch.
richard		I'll have to take your word for it.
margaret		Yes.   You will.
richard		How, exactly, do you define top notch? Margaret is smiling as she listens to a message on her phone.   In an instant, she's all business.
margaret		I need a computer and the internet.   Now.
pirate		Aye lassie, welcome to the cyber seas.   Our T-1 line is faster than a clipper ship in a hurricane, but for now ye be needing to scrawl your mark on this sign up sheet. Margaret looks and sees that all the computers are taken.
margaret		No, no, no.   I need on now.   I've got a Booker prize winning author demanding I send him an e-mail in the next forty five minutes explaining why he should stay with a publishing house that "makes" him do publicity. The Pirate looks at Margaret like she's speaking Chinese.
pirate		Arrgh...
margaret		Listen to me asshole... The Pirate looks around to make sure his boss can't hear.
pirate		Look lady.   You gonna put your name down on the list or not? Margaret is about to throttle the Pirate, when Richard pulls her back.
richard		C'mon.   I got an idea. Richard leads Margaret to the door.   As they are leaving Margaret shouts out.
margaret		I didn't know there were a lot of pirates in Alaska!
richard		Thanks for letting us use your computer.
margaret		I'm sorry, but could I have a minute alone
richard		Show me around will you Mrs. Whiting?   It's been years.
richard		She'll be out of there in two shakes. Out of the corner of his eye, Richard catches Gertrude teaching a class of second graders.   He stops transfixed.
richard		 Uh, sure. Mrs. Whiting leaves.   Richard goes to the door and Gertrude sees him.   Good lord can that woman smile.   She waves him in.
gertrude		Class, this is my old friend Richard.
class		 Hi Richard!
gertrude		Richard and I used to be in this very same classroom together.   We even had your old teacher, Mr. Megher.
gertrude		That's not a nice thing to say, Patrick. The BELL RINGS.   One girl gets up.   Gertrude eyeballs her. GERTRUDE  Marcia?
gertrude		OK, everyone is excused for recess. All the kids pop up and head to the door.   Mrs. Whiting directs traffic outside.   Richard makes his way to Gertrude.
richard		Patrick's right.   He did smell like eggs.
gertrude		It's still not a nice thing to say.   And actually, Mr. Megher smelled like wet dog and...  ...Matanuska Thunderfuck.   But let's keep that between us.
richard		Remember when Mr. Megher made us do this after school for a week?
gertrude		That was your fault.
richard		Was not!
gertrude		You tried to kiss me.   A girl has to defend herself.
richard		C'mon!  I had the shot.   I took it. Gertrude rolls her eyes.   She's heard this a hundred times.
gertrude		No Top Gun.   Please.
richard		What?   You loved my Top Gun.
gertrude		No.   You loved your Top Gun.   I just smiled and laughed like a good girlfriend.
richard		That's right.   Ice... man.   I am dangerous. Richard clicks his teeth together, trying to mimic Tom Cruise. Gertrude is not impressed.
richard		That cuts deep.   I'll have you know that
gertrude		No.   Nothing's wrong.
richard		It's been awhile, but I can still tell when something's wrong with you. Gertrude doesn't want to say anything. RICHARD  What is it?   You know I hate it when you get all quiet.
gertrude		I wish there was a better way to say this.
richard		Better way to say what?
gertrude		I made a huge mistake.   With you.   Breaking up with you.   I'm sorry.
richard		Are you apologizing for high school?
gertrude		Yes.
richard		Oh, thank God.   I thought this was like, something big.
gertrude		This is something big.
richard		I coulda used this about five years ago, but I'm all good now, promise.   Thank you for saying that, though. Gertrude sees that Richard isn't getting her point.   She pulls herself together.
gertrude		I think...  I want you back.
gertrude		 I want you back.   Like... we should be together.   All the time.
richard		Whoa, whoa, whoa.   Rewind.
gertrude		I know this isn't the best time to bring this up.
gertrude		I'm not talking about dating!   You should move back here.   We can have the life you always talked about in High School.   I'm ready for that now.
richard		Why are you doing this?
gertrude		I know that the timing here sucks.   But we are meant to be together.   I know it.   I think you know it too...
richard		No, I don't.   I don't know it. Richard begins to pace.   Not sure what to say.   Every time he opens his mouth, he can't find the words. Then, from the door, an interruption.
margaret		Hey guys. Holy shit.   Did Margaret hear anything?   Her face gives nothing away.   Gertrude and Richard act like nothing just happened, but look guilty as hell.
gertrude		Oh.   Hey Margaret.
richard		Uh, you all done?
margaret		Yeah.   We'll see what he says.
richard		Great.   Great.
margaret		You ready to get back to the house?
richard		Uh.   Yeah.   Uh-huh.
margaret		Well let's go.   See you at the wedding, Gertrude. Gertrude just smiles.
gertrude		Yeah.   See you at the wedding.
margaret		So, what did you and Gertrude talk about? Richard lies.
richard		Nothing.   About her school.   The kids and stuff.   Apparently my second grade teacher was a pot head.
margaret		That was it?   I was gone for awhile...
richard		 Yeah.   That was it.   You know, I can do this.   You should really go try on the dress for my mom.
margaret		I was going to go for a run first, it's been three days since I got out, I'm feeling crazy.
richard		 Whatever. Margaret isn't accustomed to Richard talking to her this way, but doesn't push it.
margaret		What now? Margaret follows the smoke, and hears a mysterious DRUMBEAT.   She soon discovers a tremendous bonfire by the water, and a SHAMAN dancing around it.   He is dressed in a loin cloth, and wears a carved bear's head mask and tribal make up.   His belly shakes as he spastically moves around the fire. The Shaman sings a song that sounds centuries old.
shaman		Yai...takuju magaluam Ut uksu lingm ik pifiksailiriju m 1k tuakjuk qangani takujumagaluam Ut qangalan uarm. Margaret hides behind a tree and stares at this man in a trance. He begins to yell at the fire and scream at the top of his lungs. Exhausted, he stops and catches his breath.   He yells out again. SHAMAN  It is I, father Paxton. Sure enough, Geoffrey is beneath all the make-up.
margaret		What, ah, are you doing?
geoffrey		My shaman Kevin told me to get out here and clear my head.   As you know, things have been a little crazy around here.   You should join me.
margaret		Ya know, I've got to get back.
geoffrey		You closed minded southerners amuse me. Never willing to leave the nest and try
margaret		I'm a big fan of the nest. Geoffrey throws sand into the fire and it blazes higher.
geoffrey		Dance with me!   You besmirch my ways if you deny my circle. Worried she's going to really piss him off, Margaret relents.
margaret		OK, OK.   I "accept your circle." Geoffrey smiles and throws more sand into the fire.
geoffrey		Clear your mind and follow me. Geoffrey begins dancing slowly, contorting his body.   Margaret follows, always a half step behind, and can't get into it.   After a few moments, Margaret stops.
margaret		I'm gonna head back.
geoffrey		We're not done.
margaret		I think I am. Margaret begins to leave.   Geoffrey calls after her.
geoffrey		Margaret? Margaret stops and turns around. GEOFFREY  Yai...takuju magaluam Ut uksu lingm ik pifiksailiriju m 1k... Geoffrey throws more sand on the fire to make it go higher and speeds up the dance.   Margaret is getting better, but it is still painfully awkward.
margaret		Me what?
geoffrey		Chant.
margaret		Chant what?
geoffrey		Whatever comes out, just chant.   It is the way.   You'll feel better.
margaret		I can't...
geoffrey		Close your eyes.   Chant. Margaret and Geoffrey keep dancing.   Margaret closes her eyes, but can't figure out what to say. GEOFFREY  Chant!
margaret		I don't know any chants!
geoffrey		Chant!
geoffrey		Chant! The drum beat continues.
debbie		Geoffrey! Margaret stops chanting Lil John.
geoffrey		Oh Debbie, I didn't do anything. Margaret sees Debbie and Grandma Annie in the clearing.
grandma annie		Is she singing about balls?
margaret		He told me I had to chant!
grandma annie		Oh, you poor dear.   Geoffrey, you can't do this!  He's an eighth Tlingit, dear.
debbie		He does this to keep in touch with "his people".
geoffrey		Don't make fun of my heritage!   And it was helping.   Don't you feel better?   I feel better.
debbie		Come on sweetie, we need to get you cleaned up.   You've got a dress to try on.   And Geoffrey, put that fire out and come in and help us with this wedding. Geoffrey turns off the boom box that was hidden in the trees and the drum beat stops.
geoffrey		Fine. With a fire extinguisher, the bonfire comes to an end.
debbie		I am so excited.   Aren't you excited?
grandma annie		This was my dress from 1929.   My mother made it by hand.   Amazing how things come back into style.   How does it fit? Margaret speaks through the door.
grandma annie		Drum roll! Grandma and Debbie enthusiastically make drum roll sounds. Margaret opens the door and smiles.   She's unsure of herself, but looks fantastic.   The dress fits great, except... GRANDMA ANNIE  Your boobs are bigger than mine ever were.
margaret		Yeah, it's a little snug.
debbie		Come over here. Debbie leads Margaret to a mirror.   Grandma Annie follows.
debbie		 You're so beautiful, and such a great match for my Richard.   I know I've just met you, but a mother can tell.   When he looks at you, I can tell he's in love.   I'm so happy I get to share your day.
grandma annie		Debbie, please.   We've got work to do.
debbie		You're right. Debbie collects herself, then starts crying again.
grandma annie		You go work downstairs, I'll finish this. Debbie tries to calm down, but can't. GRANDMA ANNIE  You needed something blue.   It's silly, but I didn't want to take any chances.
margaret		It's beautiful.
grandma annie		It's hematite.   Alaska diamonds.   The blue ones like this are very rare.   My great grandfather gave it to my great grandmother when they were married.   They were quite a scandal, you know.   He was Russian and she was Tlingit.
margaret		How'd they stay together?
grandma annie		Don't know.   But I'm sure happy they did, none of us would be here if they hadn't. Grandma and Margaret admire the necklace in the mirror. GRANDMA ANNIE  I want you to have it. This is awful news for Margaret.   She might as well be stealing from Annie.
margaret		No, no, no.   I can't.   Really.
grandma annie		I don't want to hear it.   It's yours. Grandmothers like to give their stuff away to their grandchildren.   Makes us feel like we'll always be a part of your life, even after we're gone. Take it. Margaret puts her hand to the necklace, and for the first time feels like a complete and total fraud. GRANDMA ANNIE  Are you feeling all right, dear? Margaret doesn't speak.   Annie patiently waits for her reply.
margaret		Well.   Thing is... Margaret deliberates spilling her guts to Annie, but can't. MARGARET  ...the dress is just a little tight.
grandma annie		Oh, don't worry about that.   We've got these seams by the arm, this'll be easy. Annie marks up the dress with tailor's chalk. GRANDMA ANNIE  We can fix this no problem. Margaret smiles, but knows that Annie couldn't be more wrong.
margaret		We need to talk.
richard		I'm a little busy.
margaret		Well I'm freaking out.   I need to get away from here.   From everyone.   Now.
richard		Go for another run.
margaret		No!   I did that.   It did not help.
richard		I'm a little tired of you making demands and me just jumping...
margaret		 We're not going to need any of this if I don't get out of here.
richard		OK, high maintenance.   Let's go.
margaret		Move over, I'm driving. Margaret cuts in front of Richard and grabs the wheel.
richard		You don't know where we're going. Margaret opens up the throttle and they are off.
margaret		It doesn't matter.
richard		The north pole.   Congratulations, we made it.  It's a glacier.   Tracy's Arm.   You better let me take it from here.
margaret		I'm fine.
richard		Oh.   OK.   So like me, you've navigated a lot of glacier fields?   And not died? Margaret reluctantly moves aside and lets Richard steer. RICHARD  Lady, you've got issues.
margaret		Yeah.   I'm a control freak.   Fine.
richard		It doesn't stop there.
margaret		This coming from the sociopath.
richard		Oh, please.
margaret		I'd never bring me here.
richard		You drove!
margaret		I mean to Alaska.
richard		Are you kidding me? Richard pulls next to the glacier and turns off the engine.
margaret		You're sick.   Doing this to them.
richard		I explained to you...
margaret		They love you.   Do you get that?
richard		Of course.
margaret		And you're still willing to lie to them?
richard		Like you didn't know.
margaret		Didn't know what?
richard		That we were going to lie to them.
margaret		I didn't know!
richard		Well that makes you either stupid, or ignorant.
margaret		You think I'm stupid?
richard		No, but what's behind door number two...
richard		Forgot what?
margaret		What it was like!
richard		What what was like?
margaret		To have a family!   I forgot what it was like to have a family.   I've been on my own since I was thirteen, and I'd forgot what it was like to have people that love you, and make you breakfast, and give you necklaces...
richard		We need to head back...
margaret		Alone.   I need alone time.
richard		What? Margaret looks at Richard with a scared and confused look.
margaret		I'm, uh, about to lose my shit.   Big time. I need a second.
richard		But...
richard		 Margaret!
margaret		No talking!
richard		 Watch your step, OK?   It can be dangerous.
margaret		Again, you're not supposed to be... Margaret doesn't finish her sentence.
richard		 Margaret?   I know I'm breaking "the rules" here, but where are you? He takes one more step before he hears...
richard		I'm sorry.   I'm sorry.   Just relax.   I'll get you out of there.   You've broken through an ice bridge.   It happens all the time.   No biggie.
margaret		Don't do that.
richard		Don't do what?
margaret		The thing that doctors do in E.R. when they tell the gunshot victim who is bleeding to death that they're going to be OK.   Don't do that!
richard		It's not like that.   Really.   We do need to be careful here though, I don't want us both to fall in.   Stay still, OK?
margaret		Uh-huh. Richard is ten feet away from Margaret now.   He's checking the ice to see if it is stable.   He slowly walks her way.
richard		So, I'm going to walk up to you and very slowly pull you out.   OK?
margaret		I'm really cold.
richard		Yeah, that's normal when you're surrounded by ice.
richard		So I'm going to pull you up by your armpits. I'm probably going to touch boob.   But don't freak out. Margaret shakes her head yes.   Richard reaches down and slowly lifts her out of the ice.   Margaret doesn't say a word. RICHARD  When I get you all the way out, I need you to hold onto me.   I'm going to carry you over there. Margaret nods yes as she puts her arms around Richard.   He's strong, so it isn't difficult for him to slowly carry her "over the threshold" style, away from the hole in the ice.   He speaks once they're safe.
margaret		You said it was "no biggie".
richard		Yeah.   Well.   You OK?
margaret		Yeah.   I'm fine. Richard smiles.   Margaret smiles back. Richard walks very comfortably with her in his arms.   She fits just right.   Margaret looks up to Richard gratefully. MARGARET 
richard		You woulda laughed at me.
margaret		Yeah.   While I was getting my camera. The two stare at each other for a beat.   There's a real spark. They might kiss.
richard		Gertrude wants me back. Whoah.   Not what she was expecting.   She looks down.
margaret		And?
richard		Well.   It seemed like you were having... second thoughts.
margaret		Yeah.   I was.
richard		Maybe we should do it.   Come clean.
margaret		Put me down. Richard puts Margaret down near the boat.   She tries to regain her composure. MARGARET  You wanna call it off?
richard		If you do.
margaret		Fine.   It's over.   We'll tell them when we get back.
geoffrey		Come with me.
richard		Where's mom, dad?   We all need to talk.
geoffrey		Not now.   C'mon. Richard and Margaret look at each other, not sure what to do. Geoffrey storms off and they follow.
geoffrey		 I was really beginning to like you.   Sorry about this. Geoffrey opens the door and goes inside.
richard		 What did you do, dad?!
geoffrey		I called him yesterday.   He told me that you were lying, and that he was going to catch you.   That he was going to send you to prison.
richard		You made a deal with him?   On my behalf?
geoffrey		You were making a mistake...
richard		That's none of your business.
margaret		It's fine.
richard		The hell it is.   It is not fine!
margaret		It's OK.   Tell him.
richard		 The truth is... I've been working for Margaret for three years.   Six months ago we started dating.   I recently asked her to marry me, and she said yes.   See you both at
geoffrey		What are you doing, Richard?
richard		 Come on, we gotta get ready. Margaret and Richard storm out of the squash court.
richard		What was I thinking?   They act like they're nice, but really, they're evil.
margaret		He's only doing it because he loves you.
richard		Are you defending him?   Are you defending the king dick?
margaret		Just stop.   Think about this.
richard		Oh, I've thought about it.   And know what I think?   I think you saved my life.   Thank you, Margaret.   Getting married to you is the best thing that's ever happened to me. Without this, I might've ended up back here. Up at the house, Debbie opens the door.
debbie		There you are!   You two almost gave me a heart attack.   C'mon, get dressed!
richard		Coming mom!  Time to sack up. Richard winks and goes inside.   Margaret follows, not sure.
grandma annie		If I were one to brag, I'd say that dress is perfect.
margaret		Matches the shoes. Margaret pulls up the dress to reveal running sneakers.
grandma annie		Those'll be your best friend.   Wedding shoes stink.   You ready?
margaret		 Nice song. Richard shrugs his shoulders.
grandma annie		Is that your song, dear?
margaret		I guess so. Margaret and Annie stop at the end of the aisle.   Looking up, Margaret sees the justice of the peace, Ramone.                      
grandma annie		It's me, Ramone. Margaret gives Annie a kiss, and then turns to Richard.   They whisper while they walk up to Ramone.
richard		You look gorgeous.
richard		So, is this what you dreamed of when you were a little girl?
margaret		Oh, you bet. They make it to the Gazebo, where Ramone awaits. MARGARET  Ramone.
margaret		No.
ramone		Then why is your hand up?
margaret		I have something to say.   It's not a question though.
ramone		Can it wait til after?
margaret		Uh.   Um.   No.
richard		What are you doing? Margaret gathers herself and turns around to the crowd.     They stare back, unsure what to make of this foreigner.
margaret		Hey there, folks.   Thanks for coming out. I've got a little announcement to make about the "wedding."
richard		Don't do this. Margaret smiles and squeezes Richard's hand.
margaret		Not sure the best way to tell you all this. But, uh... I made Richard marry me.   This is all a sham. Gilbertson victoriously pumps his fist in the air.
richard		Now wait...
margaret		Richard.   Please.   Let me finish.  And you.   Meet me at your dingy in ten, you're taking me to the airport.
margaret		Take care of him.
gertrude		Promise. Margaret walks back into the house.   Alone.
margaret		 Uh-huh.   Yeah.   That's great Frank.   Good news.   Talk to you on Monday. Margaret hangs up.
richard		So Frank's back in? Margaret nods distractedly.   Getting Frank to do the publicity tour doesn't mean much right now.
margaret		Yup.   He's in.   For now.
richard		Maybe this'll be your Mockingbird?
margaret		Yeah.   Right. Margaret starts collecting her bags.
richard		Great exit back there.
margaret		Thanks.   Fun weekend.
richard		Same old, same old, around here.
margaret		Wasn't sure if your mom would want me to strip the sheets, so I just left them.
richard		I'll let her know.
margaret		It was getting too messy.   We weren't going to be able to keep it up.
richard		Don't start lying to me now. Margaret stops for a moment.
margaret		I heard you and Gertrude at the school.   I think she meant what she said.   She's a great girl, you should stay.   It's the right thing.   You're perfect for each other.
richard		But... but what about you?   What are you gonna do? Margaret wants to keep the conversation short.
margaret		Don't worry about me.   I'll survive.
richard		So what?   This is it?
margaret		Yup.   This is it.
margaret		I'm not doing great in the dignity department, can we not do this right now?
margaret		I'll publish your book. Gilbertson smiles.
gertrude		So here's the deal.   I'm going to have a million questions for you tomorrow... Gertrude sits down next to Richard.
richard		Thanks. Richard thanks her with a kiss on the cheek.   Then, realizing where and who he is with, he puts his beer down.   He turns to Gertrude again with a determined look, gives her a kiss on the lips, then follows it up with an even bigger kiss. When they finish, Gertrude is grinning, eyes closed. Richard looks worried.   Something is wrong.
gertrude		You have been practicing.
richard		Waddya mean?
gertrude		Well.   Margaret told me that you, uh, turned into bit of a man whore down there. Richard looks down.   A bit ashamed.   Gertrude makes light. GERTRUDE  So no jokes yet?   Too soon?
richard		I'm sorry.   I'm just a little... confused.
gertrude		That kiss didn't seem "confused." Richard takes a beat to collect himself.
richard		You're amazing, Gert.   And I've thought about being with you for a long time.   A long time.   When you said those things at the school?   I've dreamed about hearing you say those things.
gertrude		I don't know.
richard		I think I have to find out.
gertrude		Find out what?
richard		If she feels the same way. Gertrude begins to tear up, but won't let herself cry.
gertrude		Well.   OK then.   What's a girl gonna do?  I guess you want who you want. Gertrude gives a melancholy smile.
richard		I'm so sorry.
gertrude		Uh-huh. Richard gets up.
richard		Are you OK?
gertrude		I'm fine.   Really.   Go. Gertrude nods her approval and Richard runs off to the party.
geoffrey		What are you so God damn happy about?
richard		What?   Oh.   Well, I'm, uh, going to see Margaret.
geoffrey		What?!
debbie		She violated you.   We should report her.
richard		Who you gonna report her to, mom?
debbie		Oh my God.   He's got the Stockholm syndrome.
richard		I don't have the Stockholm syndrome.   And she didn't violate me.
debbie		What is going on, Richard? Richard slows down and explains to his mom.
richard		I'm sorry I lied to you.   That was an awful thing to do.   But it took this weekend for me to see how funny, and screwed up and perfect Margaret is for me.   I think she's... the one.
debbie		But you already thought she was the one.
richard		No, I didn't.   Not until she left.
debbie		Really?   Does she think that too?
richard		I don't know.   I've got to get to the airport to find out. Debbie doesn't say anything, then breaks into a smile.
debbie		 He's going to stop her from leaving!   At the airport!
richard		But I gotta hurry.   Her plane leaves any second.   I might not make it.
debbie		 He's not sure he's going to make it!
geoffrey		Are you buying this horse shit?
debbie		Oh, Geoffrey!
richard		I don't have time to explain this to you.
geoffrey		Well then make some god-damn time.   Cause I won't let you throw your life away for some woman.
richard		I don't care.
geoffrey		Excuse me?
richard		I don't care.   I love you and want you to understand.   But I'm not asking your permission here.   I'm doing this.
geoffrey		Oh, really? From behind them, Annie stands up and shouts.
annie		Boys!   Stop it! Stop it!   Stop it! But suddenly, a look of panic flashes across Annie's face.   She grabs the table to steady herself, but pulls the table cloth, causing a loud crash.   Geoffrey and Richard run over.
geoffrey		Mom, are you OK?
annie		I'm having a... I need to go to the hospital.   Fast.
handsome man		 Is this another gay assistant? Margaret doesn't say anything and takes her seat.
geoffrey		Richard!   She has something she wants to say to us! Richard leans down, and joins Geoffrey and Annie.   Their three heads are very close together.   Annie speaks to them both through the oxygen mask.
annie		Listen to me.   You two need to stop fighting.   You'll never see eye to eye, but you're family.   If this doesn't stop, one day you'll regret it.  Promise me you'll stand by Richard, even if you don't agree with him.
geoffrey		I... I promise.
annie		And Richard.   Promise you'll work harder to be a part of this family.
richard		I promise, Grandma.
annie		OK, then. Annie closes her eyes.   She looks peaceful.   A moment passes.
geoffrey		What... what is going on?  Did you fake a heart attack?
annie		We didn't have time for your squabbling, and I knew a helicopter would be the quickest way to the airport.   It seemed like the best way.
richard		The best way?
annie		And remember, you two promised me that you're going get along.   I wasn't kidding about that.
annie		 Larry Ferris!   Don't make me call your mother!
chuck		Flight 1601, you're clear for takeoff.
chuck		Tower.   Talk to me.
richard		Hey Chuck, it's Richard.
chuck		Hey man.   Heard about your lady bailing. How often does this happen to you?
richard		Need you to do me a solid, brother.   I gotta see my girl and she's on that flight.   Could you stop it for me?
chuck		No can do brohan.   Need a good reason for the FAA holes.   Lose my jobby job if I delivered that favor.
richard		Oh, c'mon Chuck!
richard		Well.   That's it.   Once she gets back to New York, it'll be like this never happened. Richard looks defeated.   Geoffrey sees how sad his son is, and takes a deep breath.
geoffrey		So, you know I think you shouldn't be with Margaret, right?
richard		You've made that crystal clear.
geoffrey		Good.  Hey!   Maguire!   Yeah, yeah, yeah, her running out was something.   But that's what I'm calling about.   I've got a favor to ask you, bout one of your planes...
flight attendant		Ms. Mills?   Would you come with me? Margaret is excited to get away from Gilbertson.
margaret		Yes, of course. She unbuckles her seat belt, about to get out of her seat.
flight attendant		 Uh, a Richard Paxton? Margaret shakes her head and re-buckles her seat belt.
margaret		Tell him I'm not here.
richard		Shit!   She's never going to pick up...
chuck		 Know what, home slice?   Cut this chica loose.   You remember Beth Cable?   She'd totally be into you... Suddenly, Richard has an idea.   He picks up the hand mic.
richard		Excuse me Miss Flight Attendant, could you ask the captain to do me one more favor...
captain		 Welcome to flight 1601 to Seattle, this is your captain.   We've reached our cruising altitude of 30,000 feet.   Flight time'll   be three hours and thirty minutes.   And Margaret?   Richard has something he'd like to say to you.
chuck		You're doing great, man. Richard pushes the button down on the hand mike.
richard		I know you're used to being on your own. And that you're comfortable with your life the way it is.   And that in a million years you wouldn't have thought that we should be together.   I know, because I felt the exact same way.
handsome man		 Do you really feel like you're alone?
margaret		Oh, good lord.
richard		We need to talk. 
margaret		About what?
richard		Have you ever thought there might be a reason we've been together for the last three years?
margaret		As boss and assistant.
richard		Things change, Margaret.
richard		Yeah, things change.
margaret		Is that the best you got? Geoffrey hits Richard, as if to say "see, that's what I said." Richard composes himself.
richard		Now, tell me the truth.   When you left, were you relieved or sad that we didn't have an excuse to be together anymore? Geoffrey gives Richard the thumbs up.   That was a good one.
margaret		What's your point?
richard		Because I am sick that you left.   And if you feel sick too, then why shouldn't we just be together? Margaret goes to answer, but stops.   Richard is right.   She wants to go back.   Even the passengers on the plane can see it. Gilbertson panics.
flight attendant		Sir, you need to sit down.
flight attendant		Sir, I'm ordering you to return to your seat. Other passengers yell "sit down asshole" at Gilbertson.
flight attendant		Sir, this is your third and final warning!
handsome man		Well, I'm a federal Air Marshall.   And you're under arrest for disobeying a crew member, assault, and possible intoxication.
margaret		This wasn't supposed to happen. Richard looks Margaret in the eye.
richard		But it did. Margaret looks down.   A little embarrassed.
margaret		I'm not the kind of girl who gets saved. Richard smiles, and without warning, Margaret grabs him, and plants a long, deep, and wet kiss on him. The long kiss is interrupted by the Handsome Man and Gilbertson.
handsome man		Uh, sorry, but excuse us. The Handsome Man leads a handcuffed and still dazed Gilbertson down the steps.
margaret		 Hey!   Do you think getting arrested might affect you at work? Gilbertson has no retort.
grandma annie		That's all we ever wanted. Grandma Annie gives Margaret and Richard a big hug.   Debbie joins in.   Then Geoffrey.   Passengers cheer.
****Dialogues from script :Psycho.txt****

"psycho"		 By  Joseph Stefano  Based on the novel by Robert Bloch  REVISED December 1, 1959
sam		Never did eat your lunch, did you.
mary		I better get back to the office. These extended lunch hours give my boss excess acid.
sam		Call your boss and tell him you're taking the rest of the afternoon off. It's Friday anyway... and hot.
mary		 What do I do with my free afternoon, walk you to the airport?
sam		 We could laze around here a while longer.
mary		Checking out time is three P.M. Hotels of this sort aren't interested in you when you come in, but when your time's up...  Sam, I hate having to be with you in a place like this.
sam		I've heard of married couples who deliberately spend occasional nights in cheap hotels. They say it...
mary		 When you're married you can do a lot of things deliberately.
sam		You sure talk like a girl who's been married.
mary		Sam!
sam		I'm sorry, Mary.  My old Dad used to say 'when you can't change a situation, laugh at it.' Nothing ridicules a thing like laughing at it.
mary		I've lost my girlish laughter.
sam		 The only girlish thing you have lost.
mary		 Sam. This is the last time.
sam		For what?
mary		This! Meeting you in secret so we can be... secretive! You come down here on business trips and we steal lunch hours and... I wish you wouldn't even come.
sam		Okay. What do we do instead, write each other lurid love letters?
mary		 I haven't time to argue. I'm a working girl.
sam		And I'm a working man! We're a regular working-class tragedy! 
mary		It is tragic! Or it will be... if we go on meeting in shabby hotels whenever you can find a tax-deductible excuse for flying down deductible here...
sam		 You can't laugh at it, huh?
mary		Can you?
sam		Sure. It's like laughing through a broken jaw, but...
sam		And besides, when you say I make tax- deductible excuses you make me out a criminal.
mary		 You couldn't be a criminal if you committed a major crime.
sam		I wish I were. Not an active criminal but... a nice guy with the conscience of a criminal.  Next best thing to no conscience at all.
mary		 I have to go, Sam.
sam		I can come down next week.
mary		No.
sam		Not even just to see you, to have lunch... in public?
mary		We can see each other, we can even have dinner... but respectably, in my house with my mother's picture on the mantel and my sister helping me broil a big steak for three!
sam		And after the steak... do we send Sister to the movies and turn Mama's picture to the wall?
mary		Sam! No!
sam		 All right.
sam		Mary, whenever it's possible, tax- deductible or not, I want to see deductible you. And under any conditions.  Even respectability.
mary		You make respectability sound... disrespectful.
sam		 But if I can see you, touch you even as simply as this... I won't mind.
sam		I'm fed up with sweating for people who aren't there. I sweat to pay off my father's debts... and he's in his grave... I sweat to pay my ex-wife alimony, and she's living on the other side of the world somewhere.
mary		 I pay, too. They also pay who meet in hotel rooms.
sam		A couple of years and the debts will be paid off. And if she ever re- marries, the alimony stops... and then...
mary		I haven't even been married once yet!
sam		Yeah, but when you do... you'll swing.
mary		 Sam, let's go get married.
sam		And live with me in a storeroom behind a hardware store in Fairvale. We'll have a lot of laughs. When I send my ex-wife her money, you can lick the stamps.
mary		 I'll lick the stamps.
sam		You know what I'd like? A clear, empty sky... and a plane, and us in it... and somewhere a private island for sale, where we can run around without our... shoes on.  And the wherewithal to buy what I'd like.  Mary, you want to cut this off, go out and find yourself someone available.
mary		I'm thinking of it.
sam		 How can you even think a thing like that!
mary		 Don't miss your plane.
sam		Hey, we can leave together can't we?
mary		 I'm late... and you have to put your shoes on.
mary		Isn't Mr. Lowery back from lunch?
caroline		 You getting a headache?
mary		It'll pass. Headaches are like resolutions... you forget them soon as they stop hurting.
caroline		You got aspirins? I have something... not aspirins, but  Teddy was furious when he found out I'd taken tranquilizers!
mary		Were there any calls?
caroline		Teddy called.  Me... And my mother called to see if Teddy called. Oh, and your sister called to say she's going to Tucson to do some buying and she'll be gone the whole weekend and...
cassidy		Wow! Hot as fresh milk! You girls should get your boss to air-condition you up. He can afford it today.
lowery		Mary, will you get those copies of the deed ready for Mr. Cassidy.
cassidy		Tomorrow's the day! My sweet little girl... 
lowery		Come on, Tom, my office is air- conditioned.
cassidy		 You know what I do with unhappiness? I buy it off! You unhappy?
mary		Not inordinately. 
cassidy		I'm buying this house for my baby's wedding present. Forty thousand dollars, cash! Now that ain't buying happiness, that's buying off unhappiness! That penniless punk she's marryin'...  Casharoonie!
cassidy		I never carry more than I can afford to lose!  Count 'em!
lowery		 Tom... cash transactions of this size! Most irregular...
cassidy		So what? It's my private money!  And now it's yours.
caroline		 I declare!
lowery		 Suppose we just put this in the safe and then Monday morning when you're feeling good...
cassidy		Speakin' of feeling good, where's that bottle you said you had in your desk...  Usually I can keep my mouth shut!
cassidy		Honest. I can keep any private transaction a secret... any pri....  Lowery! I'm dyin' of thirstaroonie!
lowery		 I don't even want it in the office over the weekend. Put it in the safe deposit box, at the bank, Mary. And we'll get him to give us a check on Monday - instead.
caroline		He was flirting with you. I guess he noticed my wedding ring.
mary		The copies. Mr. Lowery, if you don't mind, I'd like to go right on home after the bank. I have a slight...
cassidy		You go right home!  Me and your boss are going out to get ourselves a little drinkin' done!  Right?
lowery		 Of course. You feeling ill?
mary		A headache.
cassidy		You need a week-end in Las Vegas... playground of the world!
mary		I'm going to spend this week-end in bed. 
cassidy		 Only playground that beats Las Vegas!
caroline		Aren't you going to take the pills?  They'll knock that headache out.
mary		I don't need pills... just sleep.
patrolman		 Hold it there!
patrolman		In quite a hurry.
mary		Yes.  I didn't mean to sleep so long. I was afraid I'd have an accident last night, from sleepiness... so I decided to pull over...
patrolman		You slept here all night?
mary		 Yes. As I said, I couldn't keep my eyes...
patrolman		 There are plenty of motels in this area. You should have... I mean, just to be safe...
mary		I didn't intend to sleep all night! I just pulled over... have I broken any laws?
patrolman		No, m'am.
mary		Then I'm free to go...?
patrolman		 Is anything wrong?
mary		Of course not! Am I acting as if... something's wrong?
patrolman		 Frankly, yes.
mary		Please... I'd like to go...
patrolman		Is there?
mary		Is there what?  I've told you there's nothing wrong... except that I'm in a hurry and you're taking up my time...
patrolman		 Now wait just a moment! Turn your motor off, please.
patrolman		In the course of my duty, I never "take up" anyone's time, whether it's to give a warning, or a ticket, or help! Believe that, M'am.  Now if you woke up on the wrong side of... the car seat, that's one thing. But when you act as if I've just placed you under arrest...
mary		I'm sorry.
patrolman		No need to apologize...
patrolman		Wait a minute!
mary		 Now what?
patrolman		May I see your license?
mary		Why?
patrolman		Please.
car dealer		With you in a second!
car dealer		I'm in no mood for trouble!
mary		 What?
car dealer		 There's an old saying, "First customer of the day is always the most trouble!" But like I said, I'm in no mood for it so I'm just going to treat you so fair and square you won't have one human reason to give me...
mary		 Can I trade in my car and take another?
car dealer		You can do anything you've a mind to... and bein' a woman, you will!  That yours?
mary		Yes, it's... nothing wrong with it, I'm just...
car dealer		Sick of the sight of it!  Well, suppose you look around for something that strikes your eyes and meanwhile I'll have my mechanic give yours the once over and... want some coffee? I was just about...
mary		No. Thank you. I'm in... a hurry. I just want to make a change and start...
car dealer		One thing people never ought to be when they're buying a used car is in a hurry!  But like I said, too nice a day for arguing. I'll just shoot this into the garage.
car dealer		That's the one I'd've picked for you myself!
mary		How much?
car dealer		Go ahead! Spin it around the block. Now I know you don't know anything about engine condition, but you can feel, can't you... and it's all in the feel, believe me, you feel that one around the block...
mary		It looks fine. How much will it be, with my car...?
car dealer		You mean you don't want the usual day and a half to think it over?  You are in a hurry! Somebody chasin' you?
mary		Of course not. Please.
car dealer		Well... heck, this is the first time I ever saw the customer high-pressure the salesman!  ...your car plus five hundred.
mary		Five hundred.
car dealer		Aha! Always got time to argue money, huh...?
mary		All right.
car dealer		 I take it... you can prove that car's yours... I mean, out of state and all... got your pink slip and your...
mary		I think I have the necessary papers. Is there a Ladies Room...
car dealer		In the building ...  Mary starts for the building, glancing once in the direction of the Patrolman.
car dealer		 I think you'd better give it a trial spin. Don't want any bad word of mouth about California Charlie.
mary		I'd really rather not. Please.  Can't we just settle this and...
car dealer		I'll be perfectly honest with you, Ma'am. It's not that I don't trust you, but...
mary		 But what?  Is there anything so terribly wrong about... making a decision and wanting to hurry? Do you think I've stolen... my car?
car dealer		No, M'am. I was only about to say, I've sent my mechanic out to give your car a little test... that's all.
mary		 I'd like to be ready when he gets back.
car dealer		Okay. If you'll come along...
mechanic		Hey! Miss?
mary		 Just put it right in here, please... beside me.
patrolman's voice		I better have a look at those papers, Charlie.
patrolman's voice		Acted like one.
caroline's voice		Yes, Mr. Lowery.
lowery's voice		 Caroline...? Mary still isn't in?
caroline's voice		No, Mr. Lowery... but then she's always a bit late on Monday mornings.
lowery's voice		Buzz me the minute she comes in.
lowery's voice		Call her sister! If no one's answering at the house....
caroline's voice		I called her sister, Mr. Lowery, where she works, the Music Makers Music Store, you know? And she doesn't know where Mary is any more than we do.
lowery's voice		You better run out to the house. She may be... unable to answer the phone...
caroline's voice		Her sister's going to do that.  She's as worried as we are.
lowery's voice		No! I haven't the faintest idea.  As I said, I last saw your sister when she left this office on Friday... she said she didn't feel well and wanted to leave early and I said she could. And that was the last I saw...  Caroline, get Mr. Cassidy for me.
lowery's voice		After all, Cassidy, I told you... all that cash... I'm not taking the responsibility... Oh, for heaven's sake, a girl works for you for ten years, you trust her! All right, yes, you better come over.
cassidy's voice		 Well I ain't about to kiss off forty thousand dollars! I'll get it back and if any of it's missin' I'll replace it with her fine soft flesh! I'll track her, never you doubt it!
lowery's voice		Hold on, Cassidy... I still can't believe... it must be some kind of a mystery... I can't...
cassidy's voice		You checked with the bank, no?  They never laid eyes on her, no?  You still trustin'? Hot creepers, she sat there while I dumped it out... hardly even looked at it, plannin' and... and even flirtin' with me...!
norman		Dirty night.
mary		 You have a vacancy?
norman		 They moved away the highway.
mary		I thought I'd gotten off the main...
norman		I knew you must have. No one stops here anymore unless they do.
norman		But it's no good dwelling on our losses, is it.  We go right ahead lighting signs and following the formalities...  Would you sign, please.
norman		Your home address. Oh, just the town will do.
mary		 Los Angeles.
norman		Cabin One. It's closer in case you want anything... right next to the office.
mary		I want sleep more than anything. Except maybe, food.
norman		There's a big diner about ten miles on up... just outside Fairvale.
mary		Am I that close to Fairvale?
norman		Fifteen miles. I'll get your bags.
norman		Stuffy in here. 
mary		The bathroom.
norman		 I'll be in the office if you want anything... just tap on the wall.
mary		Thank you, Mr. Bates.
norman		Norman Bates.
norman		You have something most girls never have.
mary		I have?
norman		There's no name for it... But it's something that, that puts a person at ease.
mary		Thank you. Again.
norman		 You're not going to go out again and drive up to that diner, are you?
mary		No.
norman		Then will you do me a favor?  Will you have supper here?  I was just about to, myself... nothing more than some sandwiches and a lot of milk, but I'd like it if you'd come up to the house and... I don't set a fancy table but... the kitchen's awful homey.
mary		I'd like to.
norman		All right, you get your dresses hanging out and... change those wet shoes, and I'll come for you soon as it's ready... 
woman's voice		No! I tell you no!
woman's voice		I won't have you bringing strange young girls in for supper...  ...by candlelight, I suppose, in the cheap erotic fashion of young men with cheap, erotic minds!
norman's voice		Mother, please...
woman's voice		And then what? After supper, music? Whispers?
norman's voice		Mother, she's just a stranger... hungry, and the weather's bad...
woman's voice		 As if men don't desire strangers, as if... oh, I refuse to speak of disgusting things because they disgust me! You understand, Boy?
woman's voice		 Go on, go tell her she'll not be appeasing her ugly appetite with my food... or my son! Or do I have to tell her, cause you don't have the guts? Huh, boy? You have the guts, boy?
norman's voice		 Shut up! Shut up!
mary		I've caused you some trouble.
norman		Mother...  ...what is the phrase... "she isn't herself today"... I think that's it.
mary		 You shouldn't have bothered. I really don't have that much of an appetite.
norman		I'm sorry. I wish... people could apologize for other people.
mary		Don't worry about it.  But as long as you've made us supper, we may as well eat it. Huh?
norman		It might be nicer... warmer in the office.
norman		Eating in an office...  ...to officious, even for me. I have the parlor behind this... if you'd like.
norman		Please sit down. On the sofa.
mary		You're very... kind.
norman		It's all for you. I'm not hungry. Please go ahead.
norman		You eat like a bird.
mary		You'd know, of course.
norman		Not really. I hear that expression, that one eats "like a bird," is really a falsie, I mean a falsity, because birds eat a tremendous lot.  Oh, I don't know anything about birds. My hobby is stuffing things... taxidermy. And I guess I'd just rather stuff birds because...  well, I hate the look of beasts when they're stuffed, foxes and chimps and all... some people even stuff dogs and cats... but I can't... I think only birds look well stuffed because they're rather...  passive, to begin with... most of them...
mary		It's a strange hobby. Curious, I mean.
norman		Uncommon, too.
mary		I imagine so.
norman		It's not as expensive as you'd think. Cheap, really. Needles, thread, sawdust .. the chemicals are all that cost anything. 
mary		A man should have a hobby.
norman		It's more than a hobby... sometimes... a hobby is supposed to pass the time, not fill it.
mary		 Is your time so empty?
norman		Oh, no!  I run the office, tend the cabins and grounds, do little chores for mother... the ones she allows I might be capable of doing.
mary		You go out... with friends?
norman		Friends? Who needs friends.  You've never had an empty moment in your whole life. Have you?
mary		Only my share.
norman		Where are you going? I don't mean to pry...
mary		 I'm looking for a private island.
norman		What are you running away from?
mary		 Why do you ask that?
norman		No. People never run away from anything.  You know what I think? I think we're all in our private traps, clamped in them, and none of us can ever climb out. We scratch and claw... but only at the air, only at each other, and for all of it, we never budge an inch.
mary		Sometimes we deliberately step into those traps.
norman		I was born in mine. I don't mind it anymore.
mary		You should... mind it.
norman		Oh I do... but I say I don't. 
mary		 If anyone ever spoke to me, the way I heard... The way she spoke to you, I don't think I could ever laugh again.
norman		 But I couldn't. She's ill.
mary		She sounded strong...
norman		I mean... ill.  Anyway, it was too much of a loss for my mother... she had nothing left.
mary		 Except you.
norman		A son is a poor substitute for a lover. 
mary		Why don't you go away?
norman		To a private island, like you?
mary		No, not like me.
norman		It's too late for me. And besides... who'd look after her? She'd be alone up there, the fire would go out... damp and cold, like a grave. When you love someone, you don't do that to them, even if you hate them. Oh, I don't hate her.  I hate... what she's become. I hate... the illness.
mary		 Wouldn't it be better if you put her in... someplace...
norman		An Institution? A madhouse?  People always call a madhouse "someplace."  Put her in Someplace!
mary		I'm sorry... I didn't mean it to sound uncaring...
norman		 What do you mean about caring?  Have you ever seen one of those places? Inside? Laughing and tears and cruel eyes studying you... and my mother there?  Why? has she harmed you? She's as harmless as... one of these stuffed birds.
mary		I am sorry. I only felt... it seemed she was harming you. I meant...
norman		 Well? You meant well?  People always mean well, they cluck their thick tongues and shake their heads and suggest so very delicately that...
norman		 ...it isn't as if she were a maniac, a raving thing... it's just that... sometimes she goes a little mad. We all go a little mad sometimes. Haven't you?
mary		 Thank you.
norman		 Thank you, Norman.
mary		Norman.
norman		You're not going to... to your room already?
mary		I'm very tired. And I'll have a long drive tomorrow. All the way back to Phoenix.
norman		Phoenix?
mary		I stepped into a private trap back there -- and I want to go back and... try to pull myself out.  Before it's too late for me, too.
norman		 Why don't you stay a little while, just for talking.
mary		I'd like to, but...
norman		Alright. I'll see you in the morning. I'll bring you breakfast.  What time will you...
mary		Very early. Dawn.
norman		Alright, Miss... 
mary		Crane.
norman		That's it. 
mary		Good night.
norman's voice		Mother! Oh God, what... blood, blood... mother...!
woman customer		...They tell you what its ingredients are and how it's guaranteed to exterminate any insect in the world, but they do not tell you whether or not it's painless. And I say insect or man, death should always be painless.
lila		Sam?
summerfield		You want to see Sam?
lila		Sam Loomis.
summerfield		 Sam! Lady wants to see you!
sam		Yes?
lila		May I talk to you?
sam		 Sure...
lila		I'm Mary's sister.
sam		Lila.
lila		 Is Mary here?
sam		Is something wrong?
lila		I want to know if my sister is here.
sam		Here?
lila		With you.
sam		Where?
lila		I don't know where. In your store, somewhere in your town... anywhere.
sam		What's the matter?
lila		Don't you know?
woman customer		All I can do is hope if it isn't painless, it's quick!
sam		What should I know?
lila		To begin with, where Mary is. Do you?
sam		No. I take it you don't either?  How long?
lila		Last Friday. She left work, and home... I was in Tucson over the weekend... I haven't heard from her, not even a phone call.
sam		And you thought she'd come up here, to me? If she had, what reason would she have for not calling you?
lila		A good reason, I suppose.
sam		 Well what do you think, we eloped or something? Or we're living in sin and...
lila		Mr. Loomis, you're so busy being defensive that you haven't even reacted to the most serious fact of all. Mary is missing.
sam		I was getting to that!
lila		What do you know about it?
sam		Nothing! You're putting me on the defensive.
lila		Look, if you two are in this thing together, I don't care, it's none of my business... But I want to see Mary. I want her to tell me she's all right and it's none of my business. Then I'll go back to Phoenix and...
sam		Bob? Run out and get yourself some lunch.
summerfield		It's okay, Sam, I brought it with me.
sam		Run out and eat it.
sam		What thing?
lila		Huh?
sam		What thing could we be in together?
sam		Is Mary... in trouble?
lila		Yes.
sam		Well why didn't she come to me... call me...?
lila		Not that kind...  You men and your egos.
sam		 Never mind my ego. Let's talk about Mary.
arbogast		Let's all talk about Mary.
sam		Who are you, friend?
arbogast		Milt Arbogast, Private Investigator.  Where is she, Miss Crane?
lila		I don't know.
arbogast		Wouldn't have been able to tail you if you did.
sam		What's your interest?
arbogast		Money.
sam		Somebody better tell me what's going on and tell me fast! I can take so much and then...
arbogast		 Your girl friend stole forty thousand dollars.
sam		Why?
arbogast		 Must've needed it.
sam		What are you talking about?  What is this?
lila		She was supposed to bank it, on Friday, for her boss. She didn't.
arbogast		 She is your girl friend, isn't she?
lila		Sam, they don't want to prosecute, they just want the money back. It was all in cash...
arbogast		 Casharoonie!
lila		Sam, if she's here...
sam		She isn't!
arbogast		You came up here on a hunch, Miss Crane? Nothing more? No phone call... from him, or from your sister herself?
lila		 Not even a hunch. Just hope.
arbogast		With a little checking, I could get to believe you.
lila		 I don't care if you do or... I want to see Mary... before she gets in any deeper...
sam		Did you check in Phoenix... hospitals... maybe she had an accident... a hold-up...
arbogast		She was seen leaving town in her car. Seen by her very victims, I might add.
sam		 Do you?
lila		 Yes... I just... did. The moment they told me...
sam		You might have doubted for say five minutes or so, Sister.
arbogast		We're always quickest to doubt people who have a record for being honest. I think she's here, Miss Crane. Where there's a boyfriend...  She won't be back there among the nuts and bolts... but she'll be in this town... somewhere. I'll find her.
lila		I just listened... and believed everything they told me. 'She stole the money.' 'We don't want to get her in trouble.' 'No don't bring the police in'...
sam		It was her boss' idea not to report it to the police?
lila		No. The man whose money she... he talked so loud and fast, and I... I should've called the police.
sam		He must have had a darn good reason for wanting them kept out of it... All that cash...
lila		I ought to call the police right now!
sam		No.
lila		Why not? Sam, is she hiding here? Are you two planning to go away with the money?
sam		How could I go away? I'm in debt up to my...  If she did steal that money...  It's hard to believe she did because it's hard to see why she would. Unless she had some wild idea that it would help me... us...
lila		She haven't even called you?
sam		I didn't see her... and I didn't hear from her! Believe that!
lila		I need to... I need to believe something. This is the first time I've ever come up against anything I couldn't... understand.
sam		You've led a charmed life.
lila		No. I just think... anything can be explained. But Mary, doing a thing like this... I don't know how to handle...
sam		Maybe we can handle it together. 
lila		 I came flying up here expecting to get some explanation... for all I know, she may be trying to get in touch with me, at home. I'd better go home.
sam		 I think she'll contact me if she contacts anybody. Why don't you stay here. When she shows up... or calls... be here.
lila		 You want me to stay here?
sam		She'll need both of us.
lila		 Where... can I stay?
sam		 After we check you in we'll go to the drugstore and get you a sandwich. Then we'll come back here... and wait.
norman		 Twelve in fact. Twelve cabins, twelve vacancies.
arbogast		 In the past two days I've been to so many motels, my eyes are bleary with neon. This is the first one that looked like it was hiding from the world at large.
norman		I don't really forget the sign, it just doesn't seem... any use.  Want to register, please?
arbogast		Sit down. I don't want to trouble you, just want to ask...
norman		No trouble. Today's linen day. I change all the beds once a week, whether they've been used or not... dampness. I hate the smell of dampness.  It's such a dank smell.
norman		You out to buy a motel?
arbogast		No.
norman		Oh. I thought... you said you'd been to so many in two days...  What was it you wanted to ask?
arbogast		I'm looking for a missing person.  She isn't in trouble.
norman		 I didn't think the police went searching for people who weren't in trouble.
arbogast		I'm not the police.
norman		Oh.
arbogast		We have reason to believe she came this way... might have stopped in this area...  Did she stop here?
norman		No. No one has stopped here in weeks...
arbogast		Mind looking at the picture before committing yourself?
norman		Committing myself to what? You sure talk like a Policeman.
arbogast		Look at the picture. Please.
norman		No. At least I don't recall.
arbogast		She might have used an alias. Mary Crane's the real name, but she might've registered...
norman		 I shouldn't even bother to change the linen. I guess habits die hard. Which reminds me...
norman		The vacancy sign. Just in case.
arbogast		Now there's a couple even remarking about your sign, and see how easily you forgot them?
norman		What?
arbogast		You thought no one has stopped here in weeks. Now, try to remember if this girl...
arbogast		 Maybe she even signed the register... because habits die hard. Let's check it, huh?
arbogast		Yes sir! Marie Samuels.  Interesting alias.
arbogast		Don't know where she got "Marie," but "Samuels" figures. Her boy friend's name is Sam.  Was she in disguise? Or do you want to check the picture again?
norman		I didn't lie to you. I just have trouble keeping track of... time.
norman		It was raining and her hair didn't look like that... damped out, I guess.
arbogast		Tell me all about her.
norman		She arrived kind of late, wet and hungry and she was very tired and went right to bed and left early.
arbogast		How early?
norman		Very early. Dawn.
arbogast		Of which morning?
norman		The following morning. Sunday.
arbogast		No one met her?
norman		No.
arbogast		Or arrived with her.
norman		No.
arbogast		She didn't call anyone? Even locally?
norman		No.
arbogast		You didn't spend the whole night with her did you?
norman		No! Of all...
arbogast		How do you know she didn't make a call?
norman		She was tired. She said she had a long drive ahead of her, in the morning... Yes, now I'm remembering very clearly because I'm picturing. When you make a picture of the moment in your mind, you can remember every detail. She was sitting back there, no she was standing up, with some sandwich still in her hand, and she said she had to drive a long way.
arbogast		Back where?
norman		What do you mean?
arbogast		You said she was sitting "back there," or standing rather...
norman		Oh. My private parlor. She had an awful hunger... so I made her some supper. And then she went to bed and left in the morning. I didn't even see her leave.
arbogast		How did she pay you?
norman		What?
arbogast		Cash or check? For the cabin...
norman		Cash.
arbogast		And when she left, she never came back.
norman		Why should she? I'm sorry, I have work to do, Mr... if you don't mind...
arbogast		I do mind. If it don't jell, it ain't aspic!  This ain't jelling.
norman		I don't know what you expect me to know about... people come and go...
arbogast		She isn't still here, is she?
norman		Not at all!
arbogast		Suppose I wanted to search the cabins, all twelve... would I need a warrant?
norman		 Come on.
norman		Change your mind?
norman		I guess I've got one of those faces you can't help believing.
arbogast		 Anyone at home?
norman		I live there. Alone.
arbogast		Someone is sitting in that window.
norman		My mother.
norman		She's... ill. Confined to her room. It's practically living alone.
arbogast		 If this girl Mary Crane were here, you'd have no reason to hide her would you?
norman		Of course not.
arbogast		If she paid you well?
norman		Now, look...!
arbogast		Or if she had you say... gallantly protecting her... you wouldn't be fooled... you'd know she was just using you. Wouldn't you?
norman		I'm not a fool! And I'm not capable of being fooled! Not even by women!
arbogast		I didn't mean that as a slur on your manhood. I'm sorry.
norman		 She didn't fool my mother.
arbogast		Your mother met her?  Can I talk to your mother?
norman		No. I told you, she's confined...
arbogast		Just for a moment. She might have picked up a hint you'd miss.
arbogast		Sick old women are sharp. Come on, I won't disturb...
norman		No! Just no!  I have one of those breaking points like any other man, believe it or not, and I'm near it. There's just so much pushing I can take and I think...
arbogast		All right!  Might save me a lot of leg-work if I could just talk to your mother.  But I'd need a warrant for that, won't I?
arbogast		 See you in an hour. Or less.
arbogast		Bates!
sam		 Sometimes Saturday night has a lonely sound. Ever notice, Lila?
lila		 Sam. He said an hour. Or less.
sam		It's been three.
lila		Are we just going to go on sitting here?
sam		 He'll be back. Let's sit still and hang on, okay?
lila		You have an awfully nice habit, Sam.
sam		Hundreds! Which one is your pet?
lila		Whenever I start contemplating the panic button, your back straightens up and your eyes get that God-looks- out-for-everybody look and... I feel better.
sam		I feel better when you feel better.
lila		 Where's the old highway?
sam		You want to run out there, bust in on Arbogast and the sick old lady, shake her up and maybe spoil everything Arbogast's been building for the last three hours.
lila		Yes.
sam		That wouldn't be a wise thing to do.
lila		Patience doesn't run in our family. Sam, I'm going out there!
sam		Arbogast said...
lila		An hour! Or less!
lila		Sam! Why call when we can go?
sam		And maybe pass Arbogast on the road?  Thanks.
sam		 Probably on his way back right now.
lila		Sam, I'm going.
sam		 You'll never find it.
sam		Stay here.
lila		Why can't I go out there with you?
sam		 One of us has to be here in case Arbogast's on the way.
lila		 Just wait here?
sam		 Contemplate your... panic button.
sam		Arbogast?
sam		He didn't come back here?
lila		 Sam.
sam		No Arbogast. No Bates. And only the old lady at home...  A sick old lady unable to answer the door... or unwilling.
lila		Where could he have gone?
sam		Maybe he got some definite lead. Maybe he went right on...
lila		Without calling me?
sam		In a hurry.
lila		Sam, he called me when he had nothing definite, nothing but a dissatisfied feeling. Don't you think he'd have called if he had anything...
sam		 Yes. I think he would have.
sam		Let's go see Al Chambers.
lila		Who's he?
sam		He's the Deputy Sheriff around here.
sam		Our Deputy sleeps.
lila		Well?
sam		Nothing.  Just... all the lights out... must be asleep.
lila		 Does that mean we can't...
sam		No. I'm just procrastinating.  People hate when the doorbell rings in the middle of the night.  Come on.
sam		Sorry, Mrs. Chambers. I hate bothering you...
sam		We have a problem.
lila		No, thank you. It's my problem, too.
sam		I don't know where to start...  Except at the beginning.
lila		Yes.
sam		 This is Lila Crane, from Phoenix. She's been here for a few days, looking for her sister. There's a private detective helping... and, well, we got a call tonight, from this detective, saying he'd traced Mary...
sam		Yes. He traced her to that motel, out on the old highway...
sam		He traced her there and called us to say he was going to question Mrs. Bates...
sam		No. An old woman, his mother.  That was early this evening. And we haven't seen or heard from him since. I went out to the motel, just got back. No one was in the office, and...
lila		 Will you help us? I think something's wrong out there!
sheriff		 Now. Your sister is missing how long?
lila		She left Phoenix a week ago yesterday. And no trace until...
sheriff		How'd you and this detective come to trace her to Fairvale?
sam		They thought she'd be coming to me.
sheriff		Left Phoenix under her own steam?
lila		Yes.
sheriff		 She ain't missing so much as she's run away.
sam		Yes.
sheriff		From what?
lila		 She stole some money.
sheriff		A lot?
lila		Forty thousand dollars.
sheriff		And the police haven't been able to...
sam		 Everyone concerned thought... if they could get her to give back the money... they could avoid involving her with the police.
sheriff		Explains the private detective. He traced her to the Bates place.  What'd he exactly say when he called you?
lila		Mary had been there, one night, and had left.
sheriff		With the forty thousand dollars?
lila		He didn't mention the money.  What he said on the phone isn't important, is it?  He was supposed to come back after he spoke to the mother, and he didn't! That's what I want you to do something about!
sheriff		Like what?
lila		Go out there! Find somebody, ask some questions!  I'm sorry if I seem over-anxious to you. I keep thinking... something's wrong. I have to know what!
sheriff		I think something's wrong, too, Miss. But not the same thing. I think your private detective is what's wrong.  I think he got himself a hot lead as to where your sister was going... probably from Norman Bates...  and called you to keep you still while he took off after her and the money.
lila		He said he was dissatisfied... and was going back.
sheriff		At this hour?
sam		He was out when I was there. If he's back he probably isn't even in bed yet.
sheriff		He wasn't out when you were there. He just wasn't answering the door in the dead of night... like some people do. This fellow lives like a hermit...
sheriff		 You must remember that bad business out there. About ten years ago...
sam		I've only been here five. Right now it feels like ten, but...
lila		All right! Then call! At least, call!
sheriff		 Well, this one wouldn't be a customer, anyway. A private detective, name of...
sheriff		 Well, I think you oughta unload that place and open up closer in to the action, a smaller place, you know... but...
lila		Please!
sheriff		 Said to give you his regards.
sam		 Was that all?
sheriff		This detective was out there and Norman told him about the girl and the detective thanked him and went away.
lila		And he didn't go back? Didn't see the mother?
sheriff		You should've called in the police the second you found your sister has skipped. You go starting private investigations, using people you don't even know...
lila		What difference does that...
sheriff		Your Detective told you a nakedfaced lie.
sheriff		He told you he wasn't coming right back cause he wanted to question Norman Bates' mother, right?
lila		Yes.
sheriff		 Norman Bates' mother has been dead and buried in Greenlawn Cemetery for the last ten years!
sheriff		It ain't only local history, Sam, it's the only murder-and-suicide case in Fairvale ledgers! Mrs. Bates poisoned this guy she was... involved with, when she found out he was married, then took a helping of the same stuff herself.  Strychnine. Ugly way to die.
sam		You mean that old woman I saw sittin' in the window wasn't Norman Bates' mother?
sam		I'd know the difference between Mary and an old woman.
sheriff		Now wait a minute, Sam. You sure you saw an old woman?
sam		Yes! In the house behind the motel. I pounded and called but she... just ignored me.
sheriff		And you want to tell me you saw Norman Bates' mother.
lila		It must've been. Arbogast said so, too... and he said the young man wouldn't let him see her because she was ill!
sheriff		Well, if the woman up there is Mrs. Bates... who's that woman buried out at Greenlawn Cemetery?
mother's voice		I am sorry, boy, but you do manage to look ludicrous when you give me orders!
norman's voice		Please, mother...
mother's voice		 I'm staying right here!  This is my room and no one will drag me out of it... least of all my big bold son!
norman's voice		 They'll come now, Mother. He came after the girl and now someone will come after him! How long do you think you can go on... Mother, please, just for a few days, just so they won't find you!
mother's voice		 All right, son, put me down and I'll go. I'll go on my own two feet. I can go on my own two feet, can't I?
norman's voice		I'll carry you, mother.
sam		We thought, if you didn't mind, we'd go out to the motel with you.
sheriff		Went out before service.
sam		 You didn't find anything.
sheriff		Nothing. Here, let's clear the path.
lila		 Did he say anything about my sister?
sheriff		Just what he told your detective.
sam		No mother.
sheriff		You must've seen an illusion, Sam. Now, I know you're not the seeing- illusion type... But no woman was illusion there and I don't believe in ghosts, so there it is!
lila		I still feel...
sheriff		Can see you do. Sorry I couldn't make you feel better. You want to come to my office this afternoon and report a missing person... And the theft, is what you want to do!  Sooner you drop this thing in the lap of the law, that's the sooner you'll stand a chance of your sister bein' picked up. How about that?
lila		I don't know.
sam		Maybe I am the seeing-illusions type.
lila		You're not.
sam		Want me to drop you at the hotel? Or you want to come over to the store?
lila		I won't feel satisfied unless I got out there, Sam.
sam		Neither will I.
lila		I wonder if we'll ever see Mary again.
sam		Of course we will.
lila		Alive.
lila		We lived together all our lives.
sam		Where'd you go to college?
lila		I didn't. I got a job, too.  I wonder if that hurt her, my not letting her sacrifice for me?  Some people are so willing to suffer for you that they suffer more if you don't let them.
sam		 She was willing to lick the stamps.
lila		I wonder so many things about her now.  Why she never told me about you...  Funny, when you think there's an answer to everything, you think you know all the answers.
sam		We were going to get married. Are going to get married!
lila		Do you know how I found out about you? I found one of your letters... it was a nice letter, Sam.
sam		This is the old highway.
lila		I suppose... when you were able to marry her she'd have presented you, all shiny and proper... she always tried to be proper.
sam		Watch your tenses.
lila		Huh?
sam		She always tries to be proper.
lila		You going to wait here for me?
sam		I'm going with you. But we'd better decide what we're going to say and do when we walk in...
lila		We're going to register. As man and wife. And get shown to a cabin... and then search every inch of that place, inside and... outside.
sam		You won't believe it...  But this will be the first time I've ever pulled one of those man- and-wife-renting-cabin capers!
lila		 I believe it.
sam		 I wonder where Norman Bates does his hermiting?
lila		Someone was at that window. I saw the curtain move.
sam		Come on.
sam		 Just coming up to ring for you.
norman		 I suppose you want a cabin.
sam		We'd hoped to make it straight to San Francisco, but we don't like the look of that sky. Looks like a bad day coming... doesn't it.
norman		I'll take you to...
sam		Better sign in first, hasn't we?
norman		It isn't necessary.
sam		 Uh, uh! My boss is paying for this trip... ninety percent business... and he wants practically notarized receipts. I better sign in and get a receipt.
norman		I'll get your bags.
sam		Haven't any.
norman		 I'll show you the cabin.
sam		First time I've seen it happen.  Check in any place in this country without bags, and you have to pay in advance.
norman		Ten dollars...
sam		That receipt...?
lila		I'll start ahead.
sam		 Don't bother yourself... we'll find it.
lila		We should have asked for Cabin One... The one Mary was in.
sam		I'm glad we didn't.
lila		We have to go into that cabin and search it, Sam... no matter what we're afraid of finding and no matter how much it may hurt.
sam		I know.  Do you think if something happened, it happened there?
lila		 Forty thousand dollars?
sam		How could we prove...  Well, if he opens a new motel on the new highway... say, a year from now...
lila		There must be some proof that exists right now! Something that proves he got that money away from Mary... Some way!
sam		What makes you sound so certain?
lila		Arbogast! Sam, he liked me... or felt sorry for me... and he was starting to feel the same about you. I heard it when he called... in his voice, a caring. He wouldn't have gone anywhere or done anything without telling us.  Unless he was stopped. And he was stopped, so he must have found out something!
sam		We'll start with Cabin One.
sam		If he sees us... we're just taking the air.
sam		Bates?
sam		Sorry.
lila		Hospital clean.
sam		What?
lila		The bathroom. Look at how clean it is. The one in our cabin is clean... but this is clean!
sam		What is it?
lila		It didn't get washed down. It's figuring... the kind you tear up and get rid of.  Some figure has been added to or subtracted from... forty thousand.
lila		That's proof Mary was here!  It would be too wild a coincidence for somebody else to...
sam		 Bates never denied Mary was here.
lila		 But maybe this proves that Bates found out about the money.
sam		Do we simply ask him where he's hidden it?
lila		Sam, that old woman, whoever she is. I think she told Arbogast something! And I want her to tell us the same thing!
sam		You can't go up there.
lila		Why not?
sam		Bates.
sam		Wait a minute. If you get anything out of the mother...  If you do get anything, don't stop to tell me.
norman		Looking for me?
sam		 The wife's taking a nap and... I can never keep quiet enough for her... so I thought I'd look you up and... talk.
norman		Satisfied with your cabin?
sam		Fine.
sam		 I've been doing all the talking so far, haven't I?
norman		Yes.
sam		I always thought it was the people who are alone so much who do all the talking when they get the chance. Yet there you are, doing all the listening!  It would drive me crazy.
norman		That would be a rather extreme reaction, wouldn't it?
sam		 What I meant was... I'd do just about anything... to get away.  Wouldn't you?
sam		I'm not saying you shouldn't be contented here, I'm just doubting that you are. I think if you saw a chance to get out from under... you'd unload this place...
norman		 This place! This isn't 'a place.' It's my only world. I grew up in that house back there. I was a happy child. My mother and I... we were more than happy.
sam		And now that your mother's dead?
norman		My mother is not dead!
sam		 I didn't think so.
sam		 You look frightened. Have I been saying something frightening?
norman		I don't know what you've been saying.
sam		I've been talking about your mother... about your motel. How are you going to do it?
norman		Do what?
sam		Buy a new one! In a new town! Where you won't have to hide your mother!
norman		Shut up!
sam		Where will you get the money to do that, Bates... or do you already have it... socked away... a lot of it...
norman		Leave me alone!
sam		...Forty thousand dollars!
norman		Leave me alone!
sam		I bet your mother knows where the money is. And what you did to get it. And I think she'll tell us.
norman		Where's that girl? The girl you came with! Where is she?
norman		 Oh, God!
lila		Mrs. Bates...?
television man		 You think they'll take him out that way?
policeman		 Besides, the taxpayers hate it when something gets slipped out the back door on them!
sam		 It's regular. Okay?
lila		 I could stand something regular.
chambers		You two can go on home if you like.  Making that statement was enough for one night.
sam		 Want to?
lila		No. I'm all right. I'll feel better when all this is explained... if it can be.
chambers		If anybody gets any answers, it'll be the fellow talking to him now... the Psychiatrist. Even I couldn't reach Norman... and he knows me.  You warm enough, Miss?
district attorney		Did he talk to you?
simon		No. I got the whole story... but not from Norman. I got it from... his mother.
simon		Norman Bates no longer exists. He only half-existed to begin with... now, the other half has taken over. Probably for all time.
lila		 Did he kill my sister?
simon		Yes... and no.
district attorney		Look, if you're trying to lay a lot of psychiatric groundwork for some sort of plea this fellow would like to cop...
simon		A psychiatrist doesn't lay the groundwork .. he merely tries to explain it.
lila		But my sister is...
simon		Yes. I'm sorry.  Have you any unsolved missing persons cases on your books?
simon		Young girls?
simon		 When Norman met your sister, he was touched by her... and aroused by her. He wanted her. And this set off his "jealous mother" and...  "mother killed the girl." After the murder, Norman returned as if from a deep sleep... and like a dutiful son, covered up all traces of the crime he was convinced his mother had committed.
sam		Why was he... dressed like that?
district attorney		He's a transvestite!
simon		Not exactly. A man who dresses in woman's clothing in order to achieve a sexual change... or satisfaction... is a transvestite.  But in Norman's case, he was simply doing everything possible to keep alive the illusion of his mother being alive. And whenever reality came too close, when danger or desire threatened that illusion, he'd dress up, even to a cheap wig he brought, and he'd walk about the house, sit in her chair, speak in her voice... He tried to be his mother.  When the mind houses two personalities, there is always a battle. In Norman's case, the battle is over... and the dominant personality has won.
chambers		 And the forty thousand dollars?  Who got that?
simon		The swamp. These were murders of passion, not profit.
police guard		He feels a little chill... can I bring him this blanket?
****Dialogues from script :Public_Enemies.txt****

pontiac		is parked at the curb. It waits.
hamilton		Time. Thirty year old JOHN HERBERT DILLINGER is in the backseat. He nods. His arms are behind him. We don't know why. Red starts the car and drives forward.
convicts		Its cold.-Convicts' uniforms are broadly striped and frayed. This is a line of hard men branded by prison: shorn hair, broken nose, eyes with a cold ferocity. And their aggression has a nihilistic edge; their spirits never surrender. There's nothing beaten down about these men. Like Alcatraz, Leavenworth, and Sing Sing, this is the end of the line.
prison guards		in visored black caps, black shirts, black patent leather Sam Browne belts with three-foot long billy clubs watch the line, poised to unleash violence.
these three		with an older man, WALTER DIETRICH, wait for the lam. work call to the prison Shirt Factory...
turnkey		 Afternoon. Hamilton flashes the badge. He shoves Dillinger inside. In an adjacent room FIVE GUARDS play poker. Next to them is a barred entrance to the prison yard. As the cage door locks behind him, this is the last place Dillinger wants to have entered. Meanwhile...
boxes		and bolts of fabric wait for the convicts. lam. A KLAXON sounds. Door opens. Convicts enter. Walter Dietrich goes right to the stacks and pulls a box with an "X" crayoned on the side. Its labeled "Thread." 
guard dainard		is approached by Pierpont, who shoves the 45 in his face.
pierpont		Line up! Line up... Dietrich and Van Meter control THREE OTHER GUARDS. ED SHOUSE, JIM LESLIE and EARL ADAMS - three other Cons armed with makeshift clubs and spivs -- join the escape. Meanwhile...
turnkey		Didn't you get paroled out of here a few months ago?
dillinger		Yes, sir. Three months ago.
turnkey		. John... Johnnie Dillinger?
dillinger		That's right. But my friends call me "Johnnie". You gotta address me as "Mister" Dillinger. Dillinger's insubordination puzzles Turnkey so he doesn't see Hamilton bat a Thompson submachine gun across the back of his head and swing it onto the Two Guards...
yard gate		is keyed open by Dainard followed by Pierpont and Makley and the others. Pierpont kicks over the poker table. Escapees throw all the Guards against the wall.
dillinger		at the window checks the escape route to the Pontiac. Its clear. Hamilton conceals his weapon and starts out. Smooth. He crosses the front lawn, the street car tracks. So far, so good...
shouse		Hurry up! C'mon!
pierpont		Cut it out Shouse!
dillinger		 Shouse!I Dainard thinks that once the killing's begun, he will die... So, he grabs for Homer Van Meter's .45. Van Meter SHOOTS Dainard. Dainard's knocked to the floor. Blood pools. A SIREN SCREAMS.
dillinger		arrives, takes Red's position. Red goes for the Pon,.c...
escapees		don't complete their disguises. Half-dressed in gua ds' uniforms, they crash outside...
dillinger		Walter! Dillinger falls away. Dillinger and Pierpont grab Walter's arms. He's-paralyzed now. They try to pull him onto the running boafd, of the moving car. Dietrich's"hcpeful eyes look up at them. Then his eyes glaze over. His feet drag down the street. He's dead and they know it. They let go.
dillinger		Walter's dead 'cause you screwed it up, you son of a bitch!
shouse		The bastard wouldn't do what he was told, Johnny. .Pete? Homer?
van meter		Let him have it.
pierpont		Dietrich was your pal, up to you. Dillinger sees the abject fear in Shouse's eyes. And Dillinger's mood swings. He lowers the shotgun... Then, he snaps the butt across Shouse's face. Breaks Shouse's cheekbone. Dillinger pulls back and slams the heavy butt dead center, smashing Shouse's nose and orbital socket. Dillinger opens the door and kicks Shouse out of the moving car.
pierpont		 okay...?
hamilton		 Johnny...? Ready.
the woman		brings out the dozen fried egg sandwiches wrapped in newspaper. She looks 40 but is 20. Edwin Norris is at the door.
dillinger		 Thank you, ma'am. Dillinger's lopsided smile is charming.
edwin norris		Its Miss. She's my daughter, Viola. That'll be eight dollars. Viola retrieves her toddler brother who's crawled into the Pontiac. Dellinger peels off a $20 bill.
dillinger		Well, then you keep the change. $12 is a lot'--'of money in 1933. Grateful, Norris goes inside, Dillinger passes Viola and the struggling toddler on the way to the Pontiac,
dillinger		I'm sorry, honey. Pierpont, Homer and Makley head towards the Plymouth.
hamilton		Kid didn't fool with anything, did he? Dillinger, looking back at the boy, hasn't heard.
dillinger		Its all here.
purvis		breaks into the clear.
purvis		Floyd! Halt! Purvis aims the Mauser. Perfect form. Floyd zigzags. Purvis FIRES, misses. Floyd opens up with the Thompson -- wildly at that range. A few .45s splinter nearby branches. Fultz, Baum and Barton seek cover: Purvis works the bolt and chambers another round. Floyd is 10 yards from the forest. Purvis kneels onto his right knee. On his upraised left knee he braces hi left elbow. He inhales. Starts a smooth squeeze. Ha Tway through the exhale he FIRES. Floyd's right arm flies up. He's punched forward and crashes to the ground.
floyd		regains consciousness. Purvis is running in. Floyd`s left
baum		Look out, Melvin! Purvis kicks the 45 out of his hand.
purvis		You are under arrest. Floyd sits up to see the massive exit wound. His right lung and liver are shot through. He falls back.
purvis		Melvin Purvis - Department of Investigation.
floyd		Ain't gonna tell you shit. Floyd looks at the sky.
sport		He jus' pulled in.
carole		Johnny! Dillinger cradles the Thompson in his arm and crosses to her.
dillinger		 Hey, Red, call Oscar.
hamilton		Okay. And Berman? Wanna switch-out the "shorts"?
carole		I sure did...
jan meter		Where those gals?! As Homer and Pierpont head inside...
dillinger		 Jammed twice, Oscar., .main spring's too tight.
oscar		cut off one coil.
dillinger		And it rides up and to the right on full auto.
oscar		 I widen port...
pierpont		Hiya Harry...
pierpont		tosses Berman a rubber banded roll of bills while...
zarkovioh		Johnny! How are ya? With him is ANNA SAGE, a 40 year old well-dressed madam. She kisses Johnny on the cheek.
dillinger		Good and so are you. Christmas is coming early this year.  Extra cake's in here for you and Anna.
anna sage		I'm in Chicago on North Halstead now. Come on by...
dillinger		Marty, tell me that me and my boys are okay...
zarkovich		Long as you stay in my town, you're in safe haven. Dillinger tosses Marty the envelope. This is Dillinger's support and resupply network.
carole		Wanna go out later, sugar?
dillinger		I want to sit here with you and listen to the radio, baby.
mckellar		 Why do we need this?
hoover		Because of the new breed of mobile outlaws who flee jurisdiction by crossing state lines over highways and against whom this government must wage a war on crime. J. EDGAR HOOVER is a physically short man but has a dynamic presence. He is a dapper patrician who believes in elites. He is completely free from self-doubt. He is youthful and 33 years old. SUYDAM and TOLSON sit next to him. MCKELLAR i'Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Sub-
mckellar		And so in the middle of a Great Depression you're looking for a budget increase to build up your Department? But by my tally your Department of Investigation spends more taxpayer's dollars catching crooks than what the crooks you catch stole in the first place...
hoover		That's ridiculous. The Bureau's apprehended kidnappers, bank robbers, who have stolen up to...
mckellar		 How many criminals you apprehended?
hoover		We've arrested and arraigned 213 wanted felons...
mckellar		No. I mean you. How many?
hoover		As Director I've administered...
mckellar		No. How many have you arrested? Personally.
hoover		I've never arrested anybody.
hoover		I'm an administrator.
mckellar		With no field experience. For once Hoover is silent.
hoover		Crime is what runs wild in this country, Mr. Chairman. And...
mckellar		And if the country required an expanded Bureau, I question you are the person most fit to run it while...
mckellar		 While outlaws like Dillinger, Clyde Barrow, the Barkers, and Nelson flourish unabated.
hoover		 Find out: was he soft on the Reds in ,1919? Does he use prostitutes? Peppy `tuf f like that. And feed this to Walter =!riiinchell: "McKellar's a Neanderthal. He's O7:a personal vendetta to destroy me." Like that.
tolson		Spotted in Hammond, Indiana.
hoover		How long ago?
tolson		Yesterday. Another sighting has him on the Lincoln Highway in Ohio heading towards Cincinnati.
suydam		How do you know?
hoover		You can have fun in Chicago. What the hell's there to do in Cincinnati?
hoover		 Agent Purvis, congratulations.
purvis		Thank you sir. May I ask why?
hoover		Pretty Boy Floyd, for which you have my commendation and personal gratitude. Second, you are, as of this moment, the Special Agent in Charge of the Chicago field office. Your task will be to get John Dillinger. Are you up to it?
purvis		Absolutely, sir. Purvis is imbued. Henry Suydam enters.
suydam		 They're ready for him.
tolson		hurry down the staircase.  
purvis		We have two weapons that cannot be defeated.
hoover		What are they?
purvis		The Bureau's modern techniques of investigation and your visionary leadership.
hoover		You let Mr. Tolson, here, know if you need anything, Melvin, anything at all,
purvis		Thank you.
hoover		 Call me J.E. They shake hands. There's a mob of photographers and newsmen and microphones to interview him.
suydam		 Our own Clark Gable...
dillinger		Let's play a game, Mr. President. Its called spin the dial. (starts stopwatch, shouts to
manley		is at the tellers' drawers. His job is to shovel cash into a canvas bag. The Tellers stand aside.
van meter		-- who let him go. Van Meter keeps his eye on the other THREE COPS. Two get behind the cover of parked cars across the street. ONE stays low and runs towards Homer.
he fires		at the glass. People scramble for cover as it CRASHES onto Main Street. Meanwhile...
cop		 Hey, you. Move out of there!
van meter		Why should I? I wanna watch. Angry Cop rushes him. Homer slams him in the gut with his rifle, disarms him and uses him as a shield. He backs to the front door. Pedestrians flee. Cops draw down. They cannot shoot without Homer blowing off the Cop's head. Meanwhile...
dillinger		That your money there, mister?
farmer		Yessir. It is.
dillinger		Well, go ahead and put it away. We're here for the bank's money. Not your money. Customers appreciate Dillinger. Dillinger loves their- appreciation...
pierpont		You three! Let's go! .to three pretty TELLERS hiding under a desk.
dillinger		Folks, stay calm and stay low. Pierpont grabs two; Dillinger takes one, creating a human shield around them --
city detectives		pull up in front of Wylie's Hat shop. Dillinger's crew is crossing fast to Red's Buick, as...
van meter		FIRES past his hostage's head. Detective goes down. The Hostage's eardrum is blown. His ear bleeds.
pierpont		C'mere, honey. Buick's moving faster. Dillinger pulls her onto the running board next--:o Boyard. The Buick roars away.
makley		2 miles - turn left at the white barn. Right there. Now. 6 miles to the new bridge. Pierpont breaks out the rear window. He throws two five gallon milk jars full of roofing nails out into the road. They scatter.
dillinger		(to Boyard and two of the
dillinger		sees Anna Patzke's shivering from shock and the cold. He puts his coat on her. He plops his hat on her head, too.
dillinger		(going along with it That depends.
van meter		How 'bout it, honey? Can you cook?
anna patzke		 Uh. Sure... After a fashion. They start to hoot and laugh. They think this is hl iiou.s.
van meter		When I'm not doing this, I'm a scout for the movies.
anna patzke		Really? This makes them laugh even harder.
pierpont		Face each other. Join hands. Pierpont binds them loosely to the tree.
weyland		We'll freeze.
dillinger		You'll worm your way out of that in about ten minutes. Anna looks over at Dellinger.
warren barton		holds up the coat Dillinger left on Anna Patzke.
baum		.manufactured by Freeman & Freeman in St. Louis. We are identifying all stores that sold this coat. We note AGENTS COWLEY, RICE, CLEGG + RORER. DORIS ROGERS  is Purvis' secretary. He brought her from his last post in Alabama along with Barton and Baum. We've entered mid-scene.
purvis		Then we will cross-reference every Dillinger family member and known associate in each locale.
dillinger		Hiya, Alvin. You hungry? How's Freddie and Dock? (note: Alvin Karpis is cunning and careful. He will outlive everyone, including J. Edgar Hoover, and retire to Torremolinos, Spain, where he will die of heart failure in
karpis		Everyone's good.  We been looking to snatch two fellas. One's a St. Paul banker, Ed Bremer. Need a few more hands.
dillinger		Don't like kidnapping.
karpis		Robbing banks is getting tougher.
dillinger		The public don't like kidnappers.
karpis		Who gives a damn what the public likes?
dillinger		I do. I hide out among them.
dillinger		.: yeah, then you, Ma, Dock and Freddie hole up like hermits on farms for six months. I grew up on a goddamn farm. I hate farms. I like big cities, crowds and a good time...
dillinger		Say, by the way, if someone got pinched here, who can get'em out real fast?
karpis		Lawyer named Piquett. We all use him. 
dillinger		What about this train?..
karpis		Needs two, three more months to set up. I need seven or eight real right guys to take it down.
dillinger		Where you gonna go?
karpis		Brazil. Cuba, maybe. What about you?
dillinger		Were having too good a time today. We ain't worryin' about tomorrow yet...
karpis		You ought to. What we're doin' here, don't last forever. They lock at each other: two pros at the top of their game.
dillinger		Keep me in mind on the train. Karpis leaves. Dellinger can't see Billie anymore.
p ierpont		Shut your yap, Homer.
makley		Let's get our of here. Pierpont, Homer and Makley leave.
dillinger		Homer stayin' steady?
hamilton		 He's okay.
dillinger		Three rules I learned from Walter Dietrich. One: never work with people who are desperate. Two: never work with people who aren't the best. Three: never work when you're not ready. Billie reappears, dancing with a young man.
hamilton		Well, I got rule four: stay away from women.
dillinger		Without women, I might as well have `stayed in stir. Anna Sage approaches with a young girl for Red.
hamilton		What's why they invented whores.  Hamilton leaves, arms around the women. Dillinger keeps his eye on Billie. Music ends. Young man escorts her to her table. He tries to join her. She turns him down. Dillinger finishes his drink, approaches. He now sees how beautiful Billie is. She's 5 foot 5. With a straight erect build, she stands out in any crowd. She looks Dillinger straight in the eye. Clear skin, dark eyes with humor playing about the edges. He unexpectedly starts to feel nervous. He gives her his best grin.
dillinger		I don't know what you said to your friend, but I sure am glad you did. Billie looks him over: a well-made man in a good suit with a great smile. And, paradoxes: he easily talks to women but he's not a hustler. He's young, but there's a world of experience in his face. Open, but he's holding something back.
billie		Billie Frechette.
dillinger		Buy you a drink? Billie looks at her girlfriend, she nods, Billie rises... As they cross to the bar.
billie		On my father's side. There's an "e" at the end. Do you have a name?
dillinger		Jack Harris. Music changes to "Bye Bye Blackbird."
billie		Do you dance, Jack?
dillinger		I don't know how. She smiles a pretty smile at him.
billie		How come you don't know how to dance? Its easy. Follow me. This is a two-step.  Don't look at my feet. Look at my shoulders. She stays an inch or two distant in his arms. Its slow and languorous. He follows her with little difficulty. He can smell the perfume in her black hair.
dillinger		My, but you are pretty.
billie		Flandreau.
dillinger		Where's Flandreau.?
billie		outh Dakota.
dillinger		Father's French, what's on the other side?
billie		Italian.
dillinger		From South Dakota, Indian's likelier than Italian. She looks at him.
billie		My momma's a Menominee Indian. But most men don't like that...
dillinger		I'm not most men.
billie		And I check coats at the Steuben Club. What do you do, Jack?
dillinger		I'm catching up.
billie		Catching up on what?
dillinger		On life, meeting someone like you.  Dark, beautiful, like the black bird in that song... She laughs at the flattery. Holds his eyes a beat with an ironic look. A couple from another group looks at Dillinger. He's cool. He returns the look. They look away.
billie		Sure. He nods courteously to her girlfriends, grabs her coat, puts a hand around Billie's waist and steers her out...
dillinger		What are you gonna have?
billie		What is it, exactly, you do for a living? Dillinger looks over the top of his menu.
dillinger		Well...I rob banks. Then he leans back in his chair and regards her.
billie		Why'd you tell me that? You could have made up a story...
dillinger		'Cause I can't lie to you. she studies him carefully.
billie		;,;.at's a pretty serious thing to say to a woman you just met.
dillinger		I feel like I know you.
billie		Well, I haven't been any of the places you've been. So I don't even know what I don't know.
dillinger		Some of the places I been ain't so hot. Where I'm going is a lot better. Wanna come along?
billie		Boy, you are in a hurry.
dillinger		If you were looking at what I am looking at, honey, you'd be in a hurry too. She laughs at his flattery, which she is also finding persuasive.
billie		 Well, its me they're looking at this time.
dillinger		That's 'cause you're beautiful. A blonde woman, elegant and ice cold, stares at Billie, a Depression-era child in her dress.
billie		That's nice. But they're looking at me because they're not used to having a Menominee Indian girl in their restaurant in a three dollar dress.
dillinger		 Listen, doll, that's 'cause they're all about where people come from. Only thing important is where somebody's going.
billie		Where are you going?
dillinger		To the top. He's irresistible.
dillinger		 Go wait outside. I'll be right there. Billie turns and walks out of the restaurant.
catena		Real good. I work for Mr. Nitti now. Been with him since I got out of Michigan... Catena indicates FRANK NITTI  in a group at a table. Sober and educated, Nitti glances in their direction but has no interest.
dillinger		Looks like a barber.
catena		Don't go by looks.
dillinger		See you. Gilbert...
catena		Good luck Johnnie.
baum		That noise on the line? That's called "swing". Nothing we can do about it. Some words get dropped. Were listening in on a car dealer. Harry Berman. Rice plays back a recording.
baum		We think that's Dillinger's voice.
purvis		How did we find Berman?
baum		Dillinger's coat was bought in Cicero, Illinois, a few doors from Berman's dealership. Berman supplies cars to the syndicate. Since Capone. Dillinger must have been at Berman's switching cars when he bought that coat.
billie		 May I check your coat, sir?
dillinger		No, honey. You go get your coat. She looks up. So does May. May flashes Billie a look: if you don't want him, I do.
may minczeles		Sounds good to me. Dillinger has eyes only for Billie.
dillinger		You ran out on me.
billie		`you left me standing alone on the sidewalk.
dillinger		I 'you're going to be my girl, you have swear you'll never do that again.
billie		I'm not your girl! A CUSTOMER comes up and puts his ticket on the counter.
customer		Brown overcoat.
billie		 I am not your girl and I'm not going to say that.
dillinger		I'm waiting.
customer		So am I.
billie		No.
dillinger		Well, I will never run out on you. And that's a promise.
customer		Well, I want to run out of here. So, lady, will you get my coat...? Dillinger lifts the man two feet off the floor and slams him into the wall. Real jailhouse rage. The lethally cold eyes tells the customer everything he needs to know. Dillinger swings him to the counter, grabs the man's ticket, slams thru the half door, finds the man's coat, tosses it at him...
dillinger		Keep the tip.  You ain't getting other people's hats and coats no more either. He takes her coat and holds it for her. She doesn't move.
billie		No one's ever done that for me before.
dillinger		You're with me now.
billie		I don't know anything about you.
dillinger		I was raised on a farm in Mooresville, Indiana. My ma died when I was three. My daddy beat the hell out of me because he didn't know no better way to raise me. I used to do dumb things but I'm a lot smarter now. I like baseball, movies, good clothes, fast cars, and you. What else do you need to know? She gets into her coat. Dillinger opens the door for her. They exit, watched by May.
billie		You been living here long?
dillinger		Yeah. Since yesterday. From a back bedroom  a phonograph is louder as a door opens and Red enters the kitchen in a robe for a drink. He returns. Laughter. Dillinger has the boxes and drinks.
billie		I'm drinking in a man's apartment who .:W.ants to romance me. Okay. I'm no "Pollyanna, but there are things that you Kati would bother a girl like me...
dillinger		We`rob banks `cause banks is where they keep the money. I can make 500 dollars in a year or I can make ten thousand dollars in a morning. I'll take my chances on the bank. No apologies. We don't go lookin' to hurt anybody. But if somebody gets in our way, that's gotta be their problem. That what you want to know?
billie		I'm trying to get to know you.
dillinger		You want to get to know me?
billie		.smooth
dillinger		Egyptian cotton. Since we been out I go for the finest stuff. As much as I can get, as fast we can get it.
dillinger		Nowhere. What do you mean?
billie		You're all packed.
dillinger		Always are. Ready to get up and go in a heartbeat... She stands next to him in the bed now. He pulls her down next to him.. She turns her good ear towards him.
billie		I was married once. He was too handy with his fists. She stares at Dillinger. Will this put him off.
dillinger		Where's he now?
billie		In prison. I divorced him. Only mistake I made was marrying him in the first place. He got caught mugging a mailman...
dillinger		A criminal mastermind...
billie		After my daddy died, we went to live on the reservation in Flandreau. In Flandreau nothin' ever happened.
dillinger		Well baby-you're going to start a new and exciting kind of life from right now. And as they're pulled to each other and start making love again, she stops...
billie		heat do you want?
dillinger		To please you. That's not what she meant, but gently, he rolls her over on the bed. A smile spreads slowly across her lips.
baum		Rorer tailed it. Berman dropped it in an alley next to the Sherone Apartments 20 minutes ago. Rorer talked to a neighbor. Men go in and out at night carrying heavy suitcases. One looks like Dillinger.
purvis		Let's go. Right now. They race out.
cowley		My car's on Sheridan and Montrose and Rice in the Ford is on Sheridan and Wilson.
purvis		Blocking vehicles? End of this street? Alley? They aren't "deployed." They're merely "here". Cowley gets it. Purvis exchanges a look with Baum, checks his gun.
purvis		I'm Special Agent Melvin Purvis, Miss Scott. Are you alone?
vi scott		No - my fiance is here.
purvis		What's your fiance's name?
vi scott		Leonard... McHenry.
purvis		May we come in?
vi scott		Sure. I'm perfectly safe... But come on in. She holds the door open.
leonard		Something wrong?
purvis		You have identification?
leonard		Honey, would you get my driver's licence. It's in my coat pocket. Leonard sums reluctant to get up. With his right hand, he takes a forkful of food. His left is under the table. Now, we see that he:.'s holding...
purvis		What do you do for a living, Leonard?
leonard		I travel in ladies shoes. He smiles at his joke. Vi enters with his wallet. Barton sees the driver's license.
purvis		Do you carry around samples?
leonard		Sure. Big suitcases.
purvis		 Enjoy the rest of your dinner, Mr. McHenry.
leonard		Thanks.
barton		Bureau of Investigation. What's your name? 
carroll		You wanna know my name? Barton sees Carroll's eyes flicker, slight smile. He spins...
purvis		Pull the men from Sheridan and Wilson.
purvis		-reacting- grabs the Thompson from Madala and runs back inside.
barton		in the final moments of his life. Barton looks up into Purvis` eyes: Help me! Purvis does not know what to do. Then Barton's eyes drift away... Purvis impels himself to action. He kicks in the door to Apt.
purvis		Where is he?!
purvis		They headed north! The Sheridan Road car?
rice		That's us. We heard gunfire. So we.  .came here. They're fucked.
madala		Was it Dillinger?
baum		No. It was Lester Gillis. Purvis sinks.
purvis		The man we let get away wasn't John Dillinger.
pierpont		Change a. twenty? Teller looks up at Pierpont but is staring into the 45 cal. barrel of a Tommy gun while...
dillinger		vaults the five foot divider railing and trains two 45s on the TELLERS.
dillinger		Get over to the vault! Everybody! Go on!
homer		on Lookout watches the street. Nothing. Dillinger and Pierpont carrying canvas bags cross through the foreground as...
purvis		 Yes, it was. I take full responsibility, sir. Hoover calms for a moment.
hoover		I thought you understood what I am doing...build.ing a department of professional investigators. Young college men with law or accounting degrees from good families. No, you may not go outside the Bureau, Purvis.
purvis		The Bureau has used these men before.
hoover		They are not our "type."
purvis		Our "type" cannot get the job done...
hoover		 Mr. Tolson will call you, Agent Purvis.
purvis		Thank you...
winstead		What'd he say he looked like?
hurt		Didn't say. Their suitcases have been set on the platform. A PORTER approaches.
porter		Gentlemen need a hand?
winstead		That's right. His terse reply makes the garrulous porter stop talking.
campbell		I'll call.
hurt		I'm going to the men's room. Winstead spots a shoe-shine stand. Winstead sits, nods and the SHOE SHINE MAN begins to polish his Western boots. He's startled bi:the knife in a sheath built into the right boot.
winstead		Wcrk around it. From under the brim of his hat, Winstead glances at big city life in Union Station. He's an ominous presence. HEAR the excited roar of a CROWD and we --
frank nitti		by the railing, watches the race with Phil D'An.drea. As they begin to walk...
nitti		 I want Johnny Patton out front on the other four tracks. Tell Adonis. He can have the parking concessions, and maintenance.
nitti		How's he doing on the wire service?
nitti		Its hot out, right?
nitti		Ever since those pricks shot me I can't get warm.  What?
dillinger		 Well drive out separately.
pierpont		I want to take 66 and check banks in Denver and Phoenix. We'll meet you in Tucson on the 25th.
van meter		I think we wore out the Midwest for awhile.
dillinger		Well be there.
dillinger		What? She is quiet for a moment.
billie		Thank you, thank you for these last few weeks. I never thought I'd see Florida.
dillinger		You going somewhere, doll, am I?
billie		It's been, three, four weeks. You'll look for a change. Or you'll get tired of me. And then I'll be sad and angry. So I wanted to say thank you before then... Dillinger is surprised that her expectations are so low. She didn't think his interest in her to be more than passing.
dillinger		You want to leave?
billie		No. But I'm no fool. I'll be back checking coats at the Steuben Club.
dillinger		Well, I don't want you to leave. So it won't be that way.
billie		Then it will be another way that's worse.
dillinger		Who the hell gave you a crystal ball?!
willie		Well, goddamn it, you don't need a crystal ball...! Ask Homer.
dillinger		Homer what...?
billie		Homer and his damn joke... I don't want to be around to see any of that. Okay?! That's what it's about... Dillinger gets it.
dillinger		I am not going anywhere! I am going to die in your arms as an old man when that time comes. So what do you say about that?
clerk		Mr. and Mrs. Frank Sullivan of Green Bay, Wd cons in. How was your journey, sir?
dillinger		.,  ng.
clerk		I can send up some sandwiches and beer, if you'd like.
dillinger		That would be swell. Some friends of mine should be here already. J.C. Davies and Mr. Long?
clerk		Out shopping, I believe. I'll let them know you're in when they come back. Old BELLHOP takes Billie's bag to the elevator. Dillinger carries his own case.
dillinger		You want company?
dillinger		First time you ever put me off. You getting tired of me?
billie		 Get in here. She stretches out and wets her hair. She sits up to reach for the shampoo. Dillinger's got it and rubs it into her hair. Dillinger hears something in the street. He goes to the window and sees a car parked irregularly. TWO MEN get out.
dillinger		Get dressed. Right now. He turns and runs into...
dillinger		What happened?
pierpont		Fire in the hotel. Firemen found our guns. Laid for us! Sorry, John.
dillinger		 Where they taking you?
pierpont		 We're getting Shanghaied to Ohio!
dillinger		Where's Billie...? Thenthey're gone. They now move Dillinger through.
cop eyman		Your girl's been put on a bus back to Chicago. We ain't holding her.
melvin purvis		is there. Cowley and Baum are with him. Purvis is brought to the cell. The COP who brought him goes back to his card game with four or five Tucson Deputies. We SEE Winstead and Hurt in their suits and ties are there, too. They lounge at ease. A Tucson Deputy gives them coffee. Eye contact with Dillinger. But Dillinger reacts to Purvis.
purvis		What keeps you up, nights, Mr. Dillinger? Now Dillinger reads him like an X-ray.
dillinger		 You act like a confident man, Purvis. Bu _, I don't see it. You know a few things. You're probably okay when there's a group of you got the other guy outnumbered. But death and mayhem up close? I am used to that and you are not, are you? When it's toe to toe, "One of us will die right here, right now," I don't think you got the get up and go. Purvis has nothing to say. He stares at Dillinger. Then he turns to leave.
purvis		Goodbye, Mr. Dillinger.
dillinger		I'll see you down the road. From ten feet away.
dillinger		Oh, yeah? We will see about that.
cop eyman		We'd like that, Johnny, but don't get too comfortable. They're moving you.
dillinger		`Where to?
cop eyman		'Indiana.
dillinger		why? I have absolutely nothing I want to do in Indiana.
deputy		He's here. A diminutive woman, SHERIFF HOLLEY goes to greet the massive cops who bring John Dillinger into her reception area and its crowd of 30 reporters.
sheriff holley		 Back up over there. Dellinger looks at the crowd. Per the "Chicago Daily News "His diction was amazing - better in many instances than that of his interviewers -- his poise no less so... There Was no hint of hardness about him, no evidence save in the alert presence of armed policemen that he had spent his formative years in a penitentiary. He had none of the sneer of-the criminal... Looking at him for the first time.,.heIates as the most amazing specimen of his kind ever seen outside of wildly imaginative moving picture."
reporter		Johnny, are you glad to see Indiana again? Dillinger's slow charismatic smile...
dillinger		About as glad as Indiana is to see me. Everybody laughs.
reporter		How'd you get them in?
photographer		Hey Bob...  Put your arm around Dellinger. FLASHBULBS POP. They fluster Estill. Dillinger props his elbow on the prosecutor's shoulder and cracks a broad grin. The Prosecutor complies. They look like old pals.
reporter		When was the last time you were in Mooresville?
dillinger		Ten years ago. I was a boy and foolish. I held up a grocery store which I never shoulda done cause Mr. Morgan was a good man. And they sentenced me to 10 years in the state penitentiary for a 50 dollar theft. In prison, I met a lot of good -t las. I helped fix up the break at "f chigan City. Why not? I stick to my friends and they stick to me.
dillinger's eyes		SEE him work the reporters. He knows that they are sympathetic. He plays them like a champ. The New York Times called this moment... "a modern version of the return of the prodigal son."
another reporter		How long does it take you to go through a bank?
dillinger		One minute and 40 seconds flat. Dillinger nods and turns away. He - not the Sheriff - ends the press conference.
day		LOUIS PIQUETT - a former bartender and Chicago gangland's melodramatic mouthpiece - is escorted to the cellblock by jailor LEWIS BAKER.
dillinger		You come highly recommended by Alvin Karpis. What can you do for me?
piquett		What's on your mind?
dillinger		The electric chair. There's none of Dil linger's cocky joie de vivre. Thaw-'s for reporters.
piquett		 Your honor! Are we to have a hearing in accord with the laws of this nation, or is the State to be permitted to incite an atmosphere of prejudice? The very air reeks with the bloody rancor of intolerant malice. The clanging of shackles brings to our minds the dungeons of the Czars, not the flag-bedecked liberty of an American courtroom. I request the court to direct that those shackles be removed forthwith!
robert estill		This is a very dangerous man, your Honor.
deputy holley		 And I'm responsible for the safeguarding of the prisoner.
p iquett		Who are you?! Are you a lawyer? What right have you to address this court?
judge murray		Alright, remove the handcuffs from the prisoner.
robert estill		Your honor, we'd like to relocate the prisoner. Only Indiana State Prison in Michigan city can guarantee Dillinger will not escape.
judge murray		Sheriff Holley?
sheriff holley		I concur, your honor.
piquett		Sheriff Holley, I think it's a very nice jail you have right here. What makes you think there's anything wrong with it?
sheriff holley		There isn't anything wrong with my jail! It's the strongest jail in Indiana.
piquett		That's what I thought. But of course, I don't want to embarrass Mrs. Holley. I appreciate that she's a woman and if she's afraid of an escape...
sheriff holley		I'm not afraid of an escape. I can take care of John Dillinger or any other prisoner.
judge murray		Okay, Dillinger will stay here. Dillinger's staying in crown Point. Dillinger's relieved.
piquett		Thank you, your Honor. The Defense will need four months to prepare itself.
robert estill		It should take 10 days.
piquett		To go on trial in 10 days would be a legal lynching of this lad! There's a law against lynching!
robert estill		There's a law against murder!
piquett		Then observe the law part. Or just stand Dillinger against the wall and shoot him. Then, there's no need to throw away the State's money on this mockery.
judge murray		 Calm down.
piquett		I apologize to the court.  Bob and I respect each other very much.
judge murray		 Watch out or he'll be putting his arm around you, too. Laughter ripples.
dillinger		Atta boy, counsel.
corridor		It runs the length of the jail. At the far end is the barred door to the criminal cell block.
cahoon		Bryant! GUARD BRYANT pulls a lever, opening the cells in the cell block. Dillinger and 14 PRISONERS step out of their cells, free to roam the corridor behind the barred cell-block door. Cahoon and TWO TRUSTEES, carrying boxes of toilet paper, soap and Dutch cleanser, enter. Dillinger jabs something in Cahoon's belly. Cahoon gets a glimpse: it's a small black gun.
dillinger		-Cpme on, Sam, we're going places. A hulking black prisoner, HERBERT YOUNGBLOOD, holding a length of ipe, materializes next to Dellinger and ushers Bryant and the Trustees into an empty cell. Youngblood pulls the lever, locking the cells.
dillinger		Call the warden.
cahoon		Warden! Warden? Come on back! Warden LEW BAKER emerges from the office. Dillinger raises the gun.
warden baker		That ain't real.
dillinger		Anything you say.
dillinger		No one move or I'll plug the warden. Dillinger grabs two Tommy guns. Youngblood starts tying up their prisoners. Baker stares at Dillinger's pistol.
warden baker		I was right, wasn't I? It's not real.
dillinger		Alright, which of these here cars is the fastest, and you're going with, so don't... lie.
saager		That would be the Ford in the corner.
dillinger		We're taking that.
youngblood		We got a car following.  
dillinger		 Wow. Mr. Youngblood, are we clear now?
youngblood		We are.
dillinger		okay, folks. Dillinger checks his rearview mirror, then the speedometer. He's impressed.
reporter		How did he act?
reporter		What did he sing?
narrator		 As John Dillinger escaped from the Crown Point jail ...or as folks now call it, the "Clown Point Jail"...he appears immune to the forces of law. And commenting in his
fdr		The Federal government, you know, cannot be held up to mockery in this way... Hoover is rocked. It's as if FDR is saying Hoover is the man responsible for the federal government being mocked...
narrator		 Meanwhile, the Emperor Haile Selassie.
dillinger		watches cars, people, then.
dillinger		 It's me, Baby.
billie		Don't come to Chicago.  INT. ROOM IN TELEPHONE EXCHANGE - BAUM
billie		Yes.
dillinger		And you believe me, don't you? You know I will look after you.
billie		Yes.
dillinger		Say it. Say you know it.
billie		Don't come to Chicago, Johnnie.
dillinger		Say it.
billie		know you will look after me.
dillinger		love you, Baby. Dillinger ends the call. Hamilton waits in a Hudson at the curb.
purvis		She knows we're watching and he knows we're listening.
dillinger		 Hiya Sport.
sport		How're ya doin' Mr. Johnny? You gotta hold it right there... Where's the warm welcome...?
dillinger		Where's Carole?
sport		They got moved to Newport, Kentucky.
dillinger		Says who?
zarkovich		 Sport's only following orders. So am I. He demonstrates that his palms are empty. He's smart enough not to be armed.
dillinger		I don't get it.
zarkovich		You go talk to your pal, Gilbert.
dillinger		About what?
zarkovich		Talk to Gilbert Catena. Dillinger, not taking his eyes off windows and doors, backs away. He knows there are more men. Zarkovich is nervous and frozen because...
dillinger		We're looking for Oscar...is he home?
dillinger		I sure am sorry, ma'am. Was it an. accident?
dillinger		Oscar had "tools" of mine, he was repairing them.
dillinger		I went to East Chicago to lay low. The welcome mat was not out. And I kept hearing your name.
gilbert		Let me make a telephone call. Dillinger nods.
gilbert		I don't think so. SOLDIER ONE. Dillinger turns the man, slams a knee into his kidney, pulls him back off balance, holds him up with one 45 under his jaw, as he draws the second 45 and sweeps the group...
dillinger		Wanna know if we're armed? Were armed. He dumps this guy on his ass, his heavy shoe an ounce from crushing his larynx. Red's two Thompsons concealed on shoulder straps are out from under his coat. Frozen time. Phil D'Andrea sits on the corner of a table. Only he stays relaxed.
dillinger		But they won't.
dillinger		I'm popular.
hamilton		Why'd you sign that asshole's paper?
dillinger		I don't know.
hoover		...they call Crown Point, "Clown Point." ,,.,The Bureau of Investigation cannot catch ""Public Enemy No. 1, but Arizona cowboys z. The President of the United States -s'aid Dillinger is making a mockery of the system of justice in this country. That means I am allowing Dillinger to make a mockery of the system of justice in this country. It is a dark cloud. There is a silver lining in that cloud. By escaping, John Dillinger has given us a second chance to get John Dillinger.
purvis		Hamilton's family hasn't had word from him in years ...
hoover		That's the point. Motivate them to get "word." Create informants, Agent Purvis.
hoover		What's your name, son?
harris		Harris. The cameras roll.
hoover		 G-Men all over the country have picked up: the gauntlet flung down by the outlaws and wanton murderers. And these junior crime fighters, these junior G-men... COLOR DESATURATES into BLACK + WHITE. We don't kno why.
carroll		John, we gotta all be friends or this ain't gonna work.
dillinger		Red told you. After we take the bank, we bust out Pierpont and Makley.
shouse		They got the prison surrounded by National Guard...
hamilton		Oh Jesus... Now the LIGHTS come up!
john dillinger		The exposure is so outrageous it makes Dillinger laugh out loud. That makes the people all around talk and joke.
dillinger's hand		grips his45. Shouse is grey with fear. Houselights darken. Finally, Looney Tunes starts. Daffy Duck.
hamilton		Shouse, you step out of line one inch and and I will kill you. Then I will kill your parents for having had you. Then I will kill their pet dog.
dillinger		Where's the bank?
carroll		Sioux Falls. Nelson says there's $800,000 in there. He got us a great place to hole- up after 'til the heat blows over.
hamilton		"Don't work with people you don't know and don't work when you're desperate." Walter Dietrich. Remember that?
dillinger		Walter forgot ...when you're desperate, 'f iat's when you got no choice.
dillinger		 You're turning it into a circus! What the hell are you doing? Meanwhile, a terrified CLERK presses a button and the alarm rings loudly outside.
dillinger		Where in the hell's all the big money?
lobby		Through the window Carroll sees a motorcycle cop, HALE KEITH, arrive outside. Nelson scrambles onto a desk and FIRES a burst through the plate glass.
nelson		What are you looking at? Nelson FIRES over their heads. Hostages scream and try to break loose. Nelson advances on the crowd... Out of a JEWELRY STORE, HARRY BERG, emerges and fires at BABY FACE NELSON, who is wearing a bullet-proof vest. Nelson sprays the area. Berg dives back in his store, BYSTANDER, JACOB SOLOMON, is hit in the stomach and crumples. Delay allows...
dillinger		Son of a bitch!
the hudson		surges forward. The car proceeds to an intersection and stops.
hamilton		Right! Goddamnit! Right! As Shouse makes the turn...
dillinger		How'd you find this place? Dillinger looks at Wanetka. He's uneasy. He trusts nothing about it.
nelson		Couple of Chicago guys told Tommy. Don't worry, nobody's gonna find us. He thinks were salesmen.
dillinger		How much? Nobody wants to answer. Hamilton meanwhile uses Atropine sulphate to clean Dillinger's wound.
dillinger		That would be less than $800,000, right? Right!
van meter		Still more than $8,000 a man.
dillinger		Leave my money and get out. Van Meter, Nelson and Shouse exit.
hamilton		You need to rest up awhile.
dillinger		No. We don't get out of here in the morning, we're going to wind up dead.
hamilton		We could head to Reno... Dillinger lies back in bed, looks around the room, angry and frustrated. Hamilton gets up to leave...
dillinger		I need two more guns, Red. OVER we HEAR the SOUND OF SOMEONE SCREAMING and CALLING OUT --
carroll		Gimme the shot, Doc. Please. I'm begging you.
rorer		Not until you tell us! As the pressure inside his skull becomes unbearable --
carroll		Oh, Mother! Help me! Please, God! He begins to scream. It is harrowing. A DOCTOR hurries into the room, Purvis blocks him from the patient. He shoves him back out the door and follows him...
doctor		 T h e bullet entered the back of his head. It is resting over his right eye. His brain is swelling. He will be dead soon. He is suffering and I need to sedate him.
purvis		Not yet. If you interfere, I'll arrest you. From inside.
rorer		Where is he?!
carroll		Give me a shot!
rorer		Di.llinger! Then you get the shot! Where is he? The Doctor looks at Purvis. Purvis remains steadfast. But we see Purvis struggling with this. Maybe his soul has just gone to hell.
rorer		 .place is called Little Bohemia in Manitowish, Wisconsin.
rorer		Rhinelander.
the courtyard		fifteen feet below, which is lit up. Dillinger positions a Winchester..351 autoloader next to the window. Moves stiffly across the room to the other window...
purvis		If you can get Dillinger alive, do it. If not, then you put him down. Rice, Rorer - take the back. Carter, you cut through the woods and come up on the front from the northwest. Get up close enough to see if they're in the barroom.
winstead		If he is?
purvis		We know where he is. We go in.
winstead		If he isn't?
purvis		o in anyway.
winstead		Too much real estate out here. Too many ways for'em to get out. And too few of us to blockade 'em in.
purvis		I will not risk them escaping and humiliating us. Take the southwest corner. Cover that and the front.  Block the road we came up -- Winstead has to accept this. He is not happy. Baum moves off through the woods. As Winstead and Hurt start to move off...
purvis		Stop that car! Federal Agents!
carter baum		in the woods sees the armed man framed in the doorwa
baum		 Bureau of Investigation, nobody move! Chevrolet slowly starts towards Purvis and the others --
purvis		Police! Stop!
purvis		Where the hell is Cowley? Purvis - low - runs to the Chevrolet, opens the door. The driver and one passenger are dead. A middle aged, unarmed man steps out. Bullets zing around him. He promptly sits down on the ground.,, dead drunk. These are not Public Enemies.
the texans		UNLOAD only on real targets. Bullets CUT through the trees.
shadowy figure		darts from a side door and leaps over the porch FIRING a Tommy gun. Bullets strike the trees around Purvis.
baum		Someone got out!
purvis		Is it Dillinger?
baum		I think so.
purvis		See if you can head him off. Go! Purvis runs into the woods after the fleeing figure. Carter Baum races off in a car.
winstead		runs through trees parallel to them but further away from the water. He catches sight of two figures through the :trees playing against the water from 100 yards away.
ghosts		because Dillinger and Red are beneath the brow of the bank, moving fast, now, and Dillinger reloads as...
winstead		signals above and behind him. to...
hurt		who crossed at a higher point on the contoured landscape, giving the,,-Texans cross fire possibilities, and...
dillinger		FIRES -- whrthe bank's cut by a ravine - exactly where Winstead should be...
hurt fires		Hamilton's legs give way. Dillinger hauls him up, still on run...
dillinger		You hit, Red?
hamilton		I don't think so. Dillinger looks at Red's shirt. A blood stain blooms just above his belt. It's bad.
dillinger		Come on, Red. We can make it.
nelson		I know you bastards wear bulletproof vests, so I'll give it to you high and low... Nelson OPENS UP. Baum, hit, manages to fall out of,-te passenger door and run.
baum		 Nelson. Baum's eyes roll back in his head. Purvis runs after the car. He dives through the woods to cut it off at a turn in the road.
dillinger		Gimme the keys to that car! He tosses them. Dellinger already has Red inside, starts it and blastsr,...away from the house. Winstead cjim:bing out of the ravine SEES the car pulling away. It's gone. He and Hurt run for the shoreline to get back to...
nelson		You dumb bastards.
cowley		Who's that? Cowley slows. The other car doesn't. Ahead Cowley slams on the breaks.
madala		Somebody's on the road!
purvis		running towards them, jumps in the Packard.
purvis		Turn it around! .the car...
cowley		Who was in it?
nelson		Who are these birds? He pulls the wheel to the right.
cowley		Look out...!
nelson		Let'em have it.
purvis		`'aster, Sam!
nelson		Hit the engine! Nelson spins the wheel to veer off the highway onto a...
nelson		Come back here, help me, you son of a bitch! Homer doesn't. He's gone. The Packard hurtles towards him, screeches, skids sideways, stops!
van meter		is cut down right away, hit 14 times. While...
nelson		opens up with the Tommy gun, ripping
cowley		across the chest. As
purvis		 Rest quiet and you will be alright, Sam.
cowley		Call my wife and tell her.
hamilton		Not like you ain't seen a man die before.
dillinger		Bullshit.
hamilton		And you gotta let Billie go too. Flash of anger in Dillinger's eyes.
dillinger		I'm sorry to do this to you, Red. Dillinger empties boxes of lye bought from the pharmacy on Red's face and starts shovelling earth on his friend's body.
rorer		What's she doing?
purvis		Agent Cowley died this morning at 5:17am. Grim reactions among the men.. ,their lost colleagues and friends...
rorer		He could be anywhere - California, Florida...
purvis		He could be anywhere - but he is not. What he wants is right here. Billie Frechette.
eve		drive carefully, south on Clark St. Sidewalks are filled with revelers and crowds.  WILL ROGERS -- FRANK
nitti		 Okie inbred sonsabitches ... backwoods cocksuckers. They did this.
nitti		Karpis. That syphilitic idiot Babyface Nelson. Dillinger. All of them. Another interstate crime bill?!
nitti		Everything is interstate. Wake up. That's the point of being nationwide. Fix it.
purvis		Agent Madala...  Agent Madala!
purvis		Its New Year's Eve, Roger. Go home to your family.
madala		Thank you sir. Purvis leaves.
dillinger		Happy New Year, doll.
billie		Happy New Year, baby. He looks at her. Its a concerned look. She reads his mind.
dillinger		For how long?
billie		However long.
dillinger		Next week? Next year? Alvin said this wasn't gonna last. He was right. The world has turned. Everything's different.
billie		glows to the prospect. For the first time there's a tangible future.
billie		Cuba?
dillinger		Too close. How about we fly to Caracas and then to Rio on Pan Am. Then an oanliner to Manila or Singapore. We are f6reign-looking to them. So they will ,have no idea who the hell we are. We can go out dancing all night and have a lotta laughs anytime we want...
billie		I think that's a great idea!
dillinger		Not too short on the sides.
billie		comes out the door. Dillinger's niece comes up with a Kodak Brownie.
niece		Can we take a picture?
dillinger		Of course.  You got an eye on those federal boys?
nephew		Yes sir. They're over having breakfast at Myra's Diner. They've been hanging around, here, doing nothing for so long, they just know this is the last place you're going to show...
billie		That how he was when he was a boy? Carefree and laughing...?
billie		You love him, don't you? She touches his arm. He looks back at the house.
billie		To try to live somewhere else.
dillinger		:Eartender's name is Larry Streng.
billie		`--W re ' s the apartment?
dillinger		Oakley and Potomac. He'll give you the keys. They drive north over the Clark Street Bridge. Dillinger gives her an envelope.
billie		.I took a taxi.
billie		.hauled towards a Bureau car by Reinecke. He tips her off balance. He bounces her off the door pillar on purpose. Dillinger sees all this.
dillinger		can do nothing. Tears of frustrated rage stream down his face. Later, he would say he "cried like a baby."
reinecke		If you tell us all about him, maybe you'll get a break. Maybe you end up doing a couple of months on a work farm., like a girls' home or something.
another agent		Where is he? Where were you meeting? Where were you hiding out?
reinecke		...or we drop you in a black hole. And you et to shit and piss on the floor and then lie in it all night in the dark with the bugs and the rats. Billie's eve'lids fall. She drifts off. Reinecke kicks her awake.
billie		I have to... He kicks the chair again. She's being denied a toilet. The humiliation is part of the pressure. Billie's embarrassed. Billie urinates on the chair now and the floor. Another Agent makes a face...
other agent		What was that movie, "Squaw Girl"...? Reinecke has gone out to get water for himself.
reinecke		Lady, you're stinking up my office. Where were you supposed to meet him! He slaps her. Billie's shoulders collapse.
billie		 We were supposed to meet...at our apartment...
reinecke		Where?
reinecke		When?
billie		Now.
reinecke		Where is he!
billie		 he's way the hell away from here by ,Tow, isn't he? She looks up at him. And she drops the little girl act. She sent them on a wild goose chase to give her man time to get away.
dolores		Mr. Purvis, you have to stop this. Those men cannot abuse a woman in that way. Purvis, with Winstead following, moves to the interrogation room.
billie		 .and when my Johnny finds out how you slapped around his girl? You know what will happen to you, fatboy? She looks Reinecke square in the eye. Reinecke swings...
winstead		grabs his wrist, turns him, Reinecke resists, Winstead nearly breaks his wrist.
winstead		Bad idea.
purvis		Uncuff her. Reinecke tries to pull away. He can't. The smaller man is built of steel cable. Rorer uncuffs Billie.
billie		I can't stand utp. Purvis doesn't hesitate. He picks her up in his arms and carries her through the office to the restroom in the corridor. She puts her hand over her eyes in embarrassment.
purvis		Miss Rogers... Doris Rogers follows them.
day		in the kitchen, waits. He's agitated. So is PROBASCO. Rear door opens. Probasco jumps. In comes Dillinger... Dillinger throws him an envelope.
probasco		You need a car? A place to stay? Wanna stay here? Is Probasco is trying to lure Dillinger here?
dillinger		I'm fine. I got a place.
anna sage		in a woman's business suit, hat and sunglasses in the dark bar, reacts. Zarkovich sits next to her.
anna sage		Immigration say they send me back to Romania. Zarkovich, the crooked cop, takes Anna's hand. The 40 year old madam is the true love of his life.
zarkovich		You know what to do. He turns her chin so that her eyes look right into his.
zarkovich		O'Neill's got to be cut in, too. So it splits three ways.
anna sage		Can they fix the deportation?
zarkovich		These guys can fix anything.
anna sage		hesitates. Then she approaches and enters Purvis' car. It pulls out.
anna sage		I want guarantee.
purvis		If you aid us apprehending John Dillinger, I will do everything I can to influence Bureau of Immigration to let you stay in America.
anna sage		No good.
purvis		That's all there is.
purvis		How do you socialize with him?
anna sage		We go out. Maybe tomorrow night. Maybe not. Maybe in a week. A month. Maybe never.
purvis		I will not guarantee what Immigration will do. What I can guarantee is what I will do. If you do not cooperate, you will be on a boat out of this country in 48 hours. Do not play games with me. Anna hesitates, caves in to Purvis.
anna sage		Every Sunday night, we go out.
purvis		Who's "we"?
anna sage		e. Him. One of my girls, Polly Hamilton.
purvis		How will we know?
anna sage		I call you Sunday when I know.
zarkovich		She's piayin` ball.
nitti		Be there. Make sure.
zarkovich		They are plenty serious all on their own.
nitti		They're serious when they make speeches. Then they screw it up. You make sure.
zarkovich		Yes sir.
karpis		The mail will carry the full whack this Tuesday.
dillinger		Why Tuesday?
karpis		That's the day they ship two weeks of payroll for seven large factories around. Rockford.  Route 14 and Route 11. Two ways in; two ways out. Harry handles the door and the..::, safe... WIDEN to include: HARRY CAMPBELL - ruddy face, large bodied. Also here is Freddie and Dock Barker and Jimmy Prohsco.
dillinger		 What do you figure?
karpis		$1.5 to $1.7 million. About $300,000 each.  Karpis is quiet. They are both feeling the ghosts of their friends...
dillinger		Thanks.
karpis		Nelson was a hot-head. I liked him for some reason.
dillinger		You were in a minority.
karpis		Had a talk with him once, at Czernaky's...
dillinger		Yeah? Louis Piquett arrives and Dillinger interrupts..
piquett		Yes. He hands Diilinger a letter. Dillinger opens it.
piquett		She told me what was in it. Dillinger's distracted ...Karpis continues.
karpis		I reminded him...
dillinger		Reminded who?
karpis		Nelson. .that he told me if he ever got $20,000 together, he'd up and quit forever...
dillinger		Well, I can. We do this Tuesday, I'm gone on Wednesday.
karpis		I thought about heading to Varadero Beach in Cuba, outside Havana. You been there?
dillinger		For me, it's maybe Mexico. And that's the answer. Dillinger plans to score the train. Go to Mexico. Wait for Billie.
anna sage		Jimmy, you're back... We understand that Dillinger's been harbored here all along. And he goes under the name Jimmy Alexander.
dillinger		looks through the apartment like he always does. He goes to the sink and starts running cold. water on his wrists to cool down.
dillinger		Tell you what, doll. You and Polly and me, we'll go out to a movie tonight and get in the refrigeration. POLLY HAMILTON enters from a bedroom down the hall, dressed to go out.
anna sage		Where you want to go?  Jimmy take us to the picture show.
dillinger		 Where you goin'?
polly		Take the street car downtown to get my waitressing license.
dillinger		I'll take you. Its too hot in here.
anna sage		I get us some butter and make fried chicken for dinner. We SLIDE onto Dillinger with his wrists under the water. He turns off the tap and starts out...
purvis		Miss Sage... She hung up.
agent madala		Biograph's on Lincoln north of Fullerton... They're split...
polly		Be right back... REVEAL he is parked right in front of the Chicago Police station on 11th and State. Sunlight cuts through the gaps between downtown's skyscrapers and illuminates Dillinger. He smiles...
dillinger		I'll go in with you.
dillinger		How long will you be?
polly		It might take ten minutes.
dillinger		I'll meet you back here... He waits as she boards an elevator. As her doors close, Dillinger follows a group of police, bail bondsmen, and civilian workers into a second elevator.
johnny		crosses thr4gh it all, strolls in the lion's den, walks in the belly ;ofthe beast - among the hunters. His audacity elevates h-,It is triumph. With all their resources, modern technology".`and organization, they cannot lay a glove on him. He is better than they are. His gratification is internal. He leaves behind, as he exits, a wake of absurdity. He passed through and they didn't even know. History was made. Like a ghost, has gone.
dillinger		You pass?
polly		I have to go back. They needed a blood test.
purvis		Is it the Marbro or the Biograph? We will be deployed at both. Whichever one he shows at, I will be outside that theater when Dillinger exits. I will give the signal to move in by lighting a cigar.
zarkovich		Anna Sage will wear a white blouse over an orange skirt. That's how we're gonna know it's him.
winstead		What's playin'?
purvis		Excuse me?
winstead		What's playin' at the Marbro? What's playin' at the Biograph? It hadn't occurred to anybody to find that out.
mandala		 Marbro...a Shirley Temple movie called "Moptop." Biograph is playing a gangster-, picture starring Clark Gable. "Manhattan::: Melodrama."
winstead		John Dillinger ain't going to a Shirley Temple movie.
purvis		Sergeant Zarkovich and Special Agent Winstead will be at the Biograph. As will I and Special Agent Madala.
sopsic		Not yet.
purvis		is stunned. Dillinger passed three feet from him.
ticketseller lady		The movie runs an hour and 34 minutes and it started about 3 minutes ago so that means it will all be over in an hour,
agent brown		They're on their way over here from the Marbro.
secretary		Remember what happened to that District Attorney in the Midwest. Just for having his picture taken with some gangster...?, The movie is referring to John Di.llinger's Crown Point photo session with his arm around Prosecutor Robert Estill.
dillinger		laughs out loud. The irony is that the gangster who inspired this Hollywood moment is sitting right here watching this movie.
purvis		In case he walks north?
winstead		He ain't gonna head north. He's gonna walk south and cut through that alley back to her place. Gerry, when you spot him through your rearview-you come up on him from behind. The "cowboys" are the only men not deployed by Purvis. They call their own shots.
janitor		They're comin' to stick us up again. He's talking to CHARLIE SHAPIRO, the Essaness theater manager.
charlie		Where?
janitor		In the alley...
charlie		Pretend like nothing's going on... He leaves the booth, taking the cash receipts.
charlie		Get some detectives over here, this is Charlie Shapiro at the Biograph. They're gonna stick us up again...
charlie		I see them getting in position, like they're waiting 'til the movie's over...
suran		Wait, wait...! Hold it! Federal Agent!
suran		Were on a federal stakeout! Put that gun down and back those cars out of the alley. But stay close because we may need you.
myrna loy		I love you more than anything, Blackie, you know...? She stops.  DILLINGER'S mesmerized' her eyes and soft skin. We SEE in his hyper reality thee satin tones on the screen. Myrna Loy's insouciance,;like Billies, speaks to him. Meanwhile...  EXT. LINCOLN BOULEVARD - AGENT MCCARTHY + EAST CHICAGO COPS
john dillinger		the actual Public Enemy #1 watches the celluloid gangster walk to the electric chair...
prisoner		See ya, Blackie.
clark gable		stops at the cell.
clark gable		Die the way you lived. All of a sudden.
purvis		sees him. He lights his cigar. It's the signal to move in.
purvis		lights a second match. And as he lights his cigar, he looks up to see...
john dillinger		look right at him. BUT Dillinger does not recognize Purvis.
winstead		steps out f, the doorway, now, and falls in up the center of the sidewalk. Reinecke's eyes are riveted on Dillinger...
dillinger's eyes		There's the man who slammed Billie into that car. Dillinger's lethal intent focuses on this one target. In milliseconds...
purvis		pulls the trigger. Nothing. He left the safety on. He fumbles with it.
purvis		H--halt!
dillinger		sees all of them RIGHT NOW. He pushes the .380 in SLOWED TIME towards Purvis.. .and bumps into a pedestrian named Ella Natasky.
ella natasky		starts to fall. Dillinger turns his attention to her for a millisecond. He's a gentleman. His impulse is to reach for her to steady her...
charles winstead		shoves aside the paralyzed Reinecke, pushes past Purvis, leans forward and shoots John Dillinger in the back of the head. The heavy 45 round punches through Dillinger's,brain stem and exits underneath his right eye. John Dillinger stumbles into the alley opening and starts to fall. A second shot from Winstead and two more from Clarence Hurt hit him now. They don't matter.
john dillinger		falls through the air.
face		crashes into the FRAME. One lens of his eyeglasses breaks. The brim of his straw hat snaps. The hat falls away. He struggles, but can't move. He breathes. He tries to speak..
winstead		stands over him. Purvis snatches the .380 automatic out of Dillinger's hand.
johnny's lips		try to form speech and Winstead's ear is next to his mouth. We and Winstead hear...
dillinger		.tell Billie... Only Charles Winstead hears the rest.
purvis		unloads Dillinger's gun. His gun-handling of Dillinger's gun is a lot better than his gun-handling of his own under stress.
purvis		What did he say?
winstead		I couldn't hear him.
purvis		You look after this. I need to call Washington. Zarkovich`houlders through the gathering crowd of
pedestrian		s=and newsmen, sees the head wound, the glazing over of Diflinger's eyes. He knows he's safe.
another day		watches Tolson who is at the window. Tolson gets a sign. Hoover straightens his collar. He brushes lint off his pants leg. Tolson waits. Hoover waits.
alvin karpis		I am unarmed.
winstead		Don't even breathe sudden.
hurt		Put your hands on the roof of that Lincoln.  Other agents come running in. Someone's yelling: We got him! We got him. Bring him in." While they wait...
winstead		Where you from?
alvin karpis		Canada, but mostly Chicago.  You?
winstead		Fort Worth, thereabouts. Clarence is from Tyler.
hurt		 Any handcuffs around here? They don't have any. They had not planned on needing them. One agent is excited. His gun pointed at Karpis shakes.
hurt		 Put that down. The agent drops his gun.
hoover		You are under arrest for the...Wahpeton, South Dakota bank robbery. Tolson waves to an agent across the street.
hoover		regains his composure.
alvin karpis		You're thinking of my partner, Harry Campbell.
hoover		Are you relieved its over? I'm sure you are.
alvin karpis		Who do you think you're talking to? Hoover is silent.
special agent		 There's no handcuffs.
winstead		Give me your tie.
newsmen		Mr. Hoover! Director!
hoover		Karpis said he'd never be taken alive, but I took him without firing a shot.
suydam		I'll answer any questions.
suydam		Mr. Hoover personally placed Alvin Karpis = eier arrest today. Karpis reached for a rzf le, but the Director was too fast.
tolson		The Director will see you now.
hoover		 Agent Purvis.
purvis		Yes sir.
hoover		(sees Purvis stare at death
purvis		One thing I learned was that John Dillinger was an outlaw and my Adversary. But he was no punk. And he was no hoodlum.
winstead		How are you doing, Billie?
winstead		I didn't come here for you to tell me something. I came here to tell you something.
billie		Okay, Mr. Winstead. What do you got to tell me? Winstead leans forward.
winstead		'M'at's right. One of them.
billie		6 why are you coming here to see me? To see the damage you done?
winstead		Because he asked me to. This gets Billie's attention and she looks more closely at Winstead.
****Dialogues from script :Pulp_Fiction.txt****

young man		No, forget it, it's too risky. I'm through doin' that shit.
young woman		You always say that, the same thing every time: never again, I'm through, too dangerous.
young man		I know that's what I always say. I'm always right too, but
young woman		but you forget about it in a day or two -
young man		yeah, well, the days of me forgittin' are over, and the days of me rememberin' have just begun.
young woman		When you go on like this, you know what you sound like?
young man		I sound like a sensible fucking man, is what I sound like.
young woman		You sound like a duck.  Quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack, quack...
young man		Well take heart, 'cause you're never gonna hafta hear it again. Because since I'm never gonna do it again, you're never gonna hafta hear me quack about how I'm never gonna do it again.
young woman		After tonight.
young man		 Correct. I got all tonight to quack.
waitress		Can I get anybody anymore coffee?
young woman		Oh yes, thank you.
young man		I'm doin' fine.
young man		I mean the way it is now, you're takin' the same fuckin' risk as when you rob a bank. You take more of a risk. Banks are easier!  Federal banks aren't supposed to stop you anyway, during a robbery. They're insured, why should they care? You don't even need a gun in a federal bank. I heard about this guy, walked into a federal bank with a portable phone, handed the phone to the teller, the guy on the other end of the phone said: "We got this guy's little girl, and if you don't give him all your money, we're gonna kill 'er."
young woman		Did it work?
young man		Fuckin' A it worked, that's what I'm talkin' about! Knucklehead walks in a bank with a telephone, not a pistol, not a shotgun, but a fuckin' phone, cleans the place out, and they don't lift a fuckin' finger.
young woman		Did they hurt the little girl?
young man		I don't know. There probably never was a little girl  the point of the story isn't the little girl. The point of the story is they robbed the bank with a telephone.
young woman		You wanna rob banks?
young man		I'm not sayin' I wanna rob banks, I'm just illustrating that if we did, it would be easier than what we been doin'.
young woman		So you don't want to be a bank robber?
young man		Naw, all those guys are goin' down the same road, either dead or servin' twenty.
young woman		And no more liquor stores?
young man		What have we been talking about? Yeah, no more-liquor-stores. Besides, it ain't the giggle it usta be. Too many foreigners own liquor stores. Vietnamese, Koreans, they can't fuckin' speak English. You tell 'em: "Empty out the register," and they don't know what it fuckin' means. They make it too personal. We keep on, one of those gook motherfuckers' gonna make us kill 'em.
young woman		I'm not gonna kill anybody.
young man		I don't wanna kill anybody either. But they'll probably put us in a situation where it's us of them. And if it's not the gooks, it these old Jews who've owned the store for fifteen fuckin' generations. Ya got Grandpa Irving sittin' behind the counter with a fuckin' Magnum. Try walkin' into one of those stores with nothin' but a telephone, see how far it gets you. Fuck it, forget it, we're out of it.
young woman		Well, what else is there, day jobs?
young man		 Not this life.
young woman		Well what then?
young man		Garcon! Coffee!
young man		This place.
waitress		 "Garcon" means boy.
young woman		Here? It's a coffee shop.
young man		What's wrong with that? People never rob restaurants, why not? Bars, liquor stores, gas stations, you get your head blown off stickin' up one of them. Restaurants, on the other hand, you catch with their pants down. They're not expecting to get robbed, or not as expecting.
young woman		 I bet in places like this you could cut down on the hero factor.
young man		Correct. Just like banks, these places are insured. The managers don't give a fuck, they're just tryin' to get ya out the door before you start pluggin' diners.  Waitresses, forget it, they ain't takin' a bullet for the register. Busboys, some wetback gettin' paid a dollar fifty a hour gonna really give a fuck you're stealin' from the owner. Customers are sittin' there with food in their mouths, they don't know what's goin' on. One minute they're havin' a Denver omelet, next minute somebody's stickin' a gun in their face.
young man		See, I got the idea last liquor store we stuck up. 'Member all those customers kept comin' in?
young woman		Yeah.
young man		Then you got the idea to take everybody's wallet.
young woman		Uh-huh.
young man		That was a good idea.
young woman		Thanks.
young man		We made more from the wallets then we did the register.
young woman		Yes we did.
young man		A lot of people go to restaurants.
young woman		A lot of wallets.
young man		Pretty smart, huh?
young woman		Pretty smart.  I'm ready, let's go, right here, right now.
young man		Remember, same as before, you're crowd control, I handle the employees.
young woman		Got it.
young woman		I love you, Pumpkin.
young man		I love you, Honey Bunny.
pumpkin		 Everybody be cool this is a robbery!
honey bunny		Any of you fuckin' pricks move and I'll execute every one of you motherfuckers!  Got that?
jules		Okay now, tell me about the hash bars?
vincent		What so you want to know?
jules		Well, hash is legal there, right?
vincent		Yeah, it's legal, but is ain't a hundred percent legal. I mean you can't walk into a restaurant, roll a joint, and start puffin' away. You're only supposed to smoke in your home or certain designated places.
jules		Those are hash bars?
vincent		Yeah, it breaks down like this: it's legal to buy it, it's legal to own it and, if you're the proprietor of a hash bar, it's legal to sell it. It's legal to carry it, which doesn't really matter 'cause  get a load of this  if the cops stop you, it's illegal for this to search you. Searching you is a right that the cops in Amsterdam don't have.
jules		That did it, man  I'm fuckin' goin', that's all there is to it.
vincent		You'll dig it the most. But you know what the funniest thing about Europe is?
jules		What?
vincent		It's the little differences. A lotta the same shit we got here, they got there, but there they're a little different.
jules		Examples?
vincent		Well, in Amsterdam, you can buy beer in a movie theatre. And I don't mean in a paper cup either. They give you a glass of beer, like in a bar. In Paris, you can buy beer at MacDonald's. Also, you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris?
jules		They don't call it a Quarter Pounder with Cheese?
vincent		No, they got the metric system there, they wouldn't know what the fuck a Quarter Pounder is.
jules		What'd they call it?
vincent		Royale with Cheese.
jules		 Royale with Cheese. What'd they call a Big Mac?
vincent		Big Mac's a Big Mac, but they call it Le Big Mac.
jules		Le Big Mac. What do they call a Whopper?
vincent		I dunno, I didn't go into a Burger King.  But you know what they put on french fries in Holland instead of ketchup?
jules		What?
vincent		Mayonnaise.
jules		Goddamn!
vincent		I seen 'em do it. And I don't mean a little bit on the side of the plate, they fuckin' drown 'em in it.
jules		Uuccch!
jules		We should have shotguns for this kind of deal.
vincent		How many up there?
jules		Three or four.
vincent		Counting our guy?
jules		I'm not sure.
vincent		So there could be five guys up there?
jules		It's possible.
vincent		We should have fuckin' shotguns.
vincent		What's her name?
jules		Mia.
vincent		How did Marsellus and her meet?
jules		I dunno, however people meet people. She usta be an actress.
vincent		She ever do anything I woulda saw?
jules		I think her biggest deal was she starred in a pilot.
vincent		What's a pilot?
jules		Well, you know the shows on TV?
vincent		I don't watch TV.
jules		Yes, but you're aware that there's an invention called television, and on that invention they show shows?
vincent		Yeah.
jules		Well, the way they pick the shows on TV is they make one show, and that show's called a pilot. And they show that one show to the people who pick the shows, and on the strength of that one show, they decide if they want to make more shows. Some get accepted and become TV programs, and some don't, and become nothing. She starred in one of the ones that became nothing.
jules		You remember Antwan Rockamora? Half- black, half-Samoan, usta call him Tony Rocky Horror.
vincent		Yeah maybe, fat right?
jules		I wouldn't go so far as to call the brother fat. He's got a weight problem.  What's the nigger gonna do, he's Samoan.
vincent		I think I know who you mean, what about him?
jules		Well, Marsellus fucked his ass up good.  And word around the campfire, it was on account of Marsellus Wallace's wife.
vincent		What'd he do, fuck her?
jules		No no no no no no no, nothin' that bad.
vincent		Well what then?
jules		He gave her a foot massage.
vincent		A foot massage?
vincent		That's all?
vincent		What did Marsellus do?
jules		Sent a couple of guys over to his place.  They took him out on the patio of his apartment, threw his ass over the balcony.  Nigger fell four stories. They had this garden at the bottom, enclosed in glass, like one of them greenhouses  nigger fell through that. Since then, he's kinda developed a speech impediment.
vincent		That's a damn shame.
vincent		Still I hafta say, play with matches, ya get burned.
jules		Whaddya mean?
vincent		You don't be givin' Marsellus Wallace's new bride a foot massage.
jules		You don't think he overreacted?
vincent		Antwan probably didn't expect Marsellus to react like he did, but he had to expect a reaction.
jules		It was a foot massage, a foot massage is nothing, I give my mother a foot massage.
vincent		It's laying hands on Marsellus Wallace's new wife in a familiar way. Is it as bad as eatin' her out no, but you're in the same fuckin' ballpark.
jules		Whoa... whoa... whoa... stop right there.  Eatin' a bitch out, and givin' a bitch a foot massage ain't even the same fuckin' thing.
vincent		Not the same thing, the same ballpark.
jules		It ain't no ballpark either. Look maybe your method of massage differs from mine, but touchin' his lady's feet, and stickin' your tongue in her holyiest of holyies, ain't the same ballpark, ain't the same league, ain't even the same fuckin' sport. Foot massages don't mean shit.
vincent		Have you ever given a foot massage?
jules		Don't be tellin' me about foot massages  I'm the foot fuckin' master.
vincent		Given a lot of 'em?
jules		Shit yeah. I got my technique down man, I don't tickle or nothin'.
vincent		Have you ever given a guy a foot massage?
jules		Fuck you.
vincent		How many?
jules		Fuck you.
vincent		Would you give me a foot massage I'm kinda tired.
jules		Man, you best back off, I'm gittin' pissed  this is the door.
jules		What time is it?
vincent		 Seven-twenty-two in the morning.
jules		It ain't quite time, let's hang back.
jules		Look, just because I wouldn't give no man a foot massage, don't make it right for Marsellus to throw Antwan off a building into a glass- motherfuckin-house, fuckin' up the way the nigger talks. That ain't right, man. Motherfucker do that to me, he better paralyze my ass, 'cause I'd kill'a motherfucker.
vincent		I'm not sayin' he was right, but you're sayin' a foot massage don't mean nothing, and I'm sayin' it does. I've given a million ladies a million foot massages and they all meant somethin'. We act like they don't, but they do. That's what's so fuckin' cool about 'em. This sensual thing's goin' on that nobody's talkin about, but you know it and she knows it, fuckin' Marsellus knew it, and Antwan shoulda known fuckin' better. That's his fuckin' wife, man. He ain't gonna have a sense of humor about that shit.
jules		That's an interesting point, but let's get into character.
vincent		What's her name again?
jules		Mia. Why you so interested in big man's wife?
vincent		Well, Marsellus is leavin' for Florida and when he's gone, he wants me to take care of Mia.
jules		Take care of her?
vincent		Not that! Take her out. Show her a good time. Don't let her get lonely.
jules		You're gonna be takin' Mia Wallace out on a date?
vincent		It ain't a date. It's like when you and your buddy's wife go to a movie or somethin'. It's just... you know... good company.
vincent		It's not a date.
jules		Hey kids.
jules		How you boys doin'?
jules		 Am I trippin', or did I just ask you a question.
brett		We're doin' okay.
jules		Do you know who we are?
jules		We're associates of your business partner Marsellus Wallace, you remember your business partner dont'ya?
jules		 Now I'm gonna take a wild guess here: you're Brett, right?
brett		I'm Brett.
jules		I thought so. Well, you remember your business partner Marsellus Wallace, dont'ya Brett?
brett		I remember him.
jules		Good for you. Looks like me and Vincent caught you at breakfast, sorry 'bout that.  What'cha eatin'?
brett		Hamburgers.
jules		Hamburgers. The cornerstone of any nutritious breakfast. What kinda hamburgers?
brett		Cheeseburgers.
jules		No, I mean where did you get'em? MacDonald's, Wendy's, Jack-in-the- Box, where?
brett		Big Kahuna Burger.
jules		Big Kahuna Burger. That's that Hawaiian burger joint. I heard they got some tasty burgers. I ain't never had one myself, how are they?
brett		They're good.
jules		Mind if I try one of yours?
brett		No.
jules		Yours is this one, right?
brett		Yeah.
jules		Uuummmm, that's a tasty burger.  Vince, you ever try a Big Kahuna Burger?
vincent		No.
jules		You wanna bite, they're real good.
vincent		I ain't hungry.
jules		Well, if you like hamburgers give 'em a try sometime. Me, I can't usually eat 'em 'cause my girlfriend's a vegetarian. Which more or less makes me a vegetarian, but I sure love the taste of a good burger.  You know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in France?
brett		No.
jules		Tell 'em, Vincent.
vincent		Royale with Cheese.
jules		Royale with Cheese, you know why they call it that?
brett		Because of the metric system?
jules		Check out the big brain on Brett. You'a smart motherfucker, that's right. The metric system.  What's in this?
brett		Sprite.
jules		Sprite, good, mind if I have some of your tasty beverage to wash this down with?
brett		Sure.
jules		Uuuuummmm, hit's the spot!  You, Flock of Seagulls, you know what we're here for?
jules		Then why don't you tell my boy here Vince, where you got the shit hid.
marvin		It's under the be
jules		I don't remember askin' you a goddamn thing.  You were sayin'?
roger		It's under the bed.
vincent		Got it.
jules		We happy?
jules		Vincent!
jules		We happy?
vincent		We're happy.
brett		 Look, what's your name? I got his name's Vincent, but what's yours?
jules		My name's Pitt, and you ain't talkin' your ass outta this shit.
brett		I just want you to know how sorry we are about how fucked up things got between us and Mr. Wallace. When we entered into this thing, we only had the best intentions
jules		 Oh, I'm sorry. Did that break your concentration? I didn't mean to do that.  Please, continue. I believe you were saying something about "best intentions."
jules		Whatsamatter? Oh, you were through anyway.  Well, let me retort. Would you describe for me what Marsellus Wallace looks like?
jules		What country you from!
brett		 What?
jules		"What" ain't no country I know! Do they speak English in "What?"
brett		 What?
jules		English-motherfucker-can-you-speak- it?
brett		Yes.
jules		Then you understand what I'm sayin'?
brett		Yes.
jules		Now describe what Marsellus Wallace looks like!
brett		 What?
jules		Say "What" again! C'mon, say "What" again!  I dare ya, I double dare ya motherfucker, say "What" one more goddamn time!
jules		Now describe to me what Marsellus Wallace looks like!
brett		Well he's... he's... black
jules		go on!
brett		...and he's... he's... bald
jules		does he look like a bitch?!
brett		 What?
jules		Does-he-look-like-a-bitch?!
brett		 No.
jules		Then why did you try to fuck 'im like a bitch?!
brett		 I didn't.
jules		Yes ya did Brett. Ya tried ta fuck 'im.  You ever read the Bible, Brett?
brett		 Yes.
jules		There's a passage I got memorized, seems appropriate for this situation: Ezekiel 25:17. "The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men.  Blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness, for he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you."
butch		I got no problem with that.
butch		In the fifth, my ass goes down.
english dave		Vincent Vega, our man in Amsterdam, git your ass on in here.
vincent		Where's the big man?
english dave		He's over there, finishing up some business.
vincent		How 'bout a cup of just plain lo' American?
english dave		Comin' up. I hear you're taking Mia out tomorrow?
vincent		At Marsellus' request.
english dave		Have you met Mia?
vincent		Not yet.
vincent		What's so funny?
english dave		Not a goddamn thing.
vincent		Look, I'm not a idiot. She's the big man's fuckin' wife. I'm gonna sit across a table, chew my food with my mouth closed, laugh at her jokes and that's all I'm gonna do.
english dave		My name's Paul, and this is between y'all.
butch		 Can I get a pack'a Red Apples?
english dave		Filters?
butch		Non.
butch		Lookin' at somethin', friend?
vincent		I ain't your friend, palooka.
butch		What was that?
vincent		I think ya heard me just fine, punchy.
jody		...I'll lend it to you. It's a great book on body piercing.
trudi		You know how they use that gun when they pierce your ears? They don't use that when they pierce your nipples, do they?
jody		Forget that gun. That gun goes against the entire idea behind piercing. All of my piercing, sixteen places on my body, every one of 'em done with a needle. Five in each ear. One through the nipple on my left breast. One through my right nostril.  One through my left eyebrow. One through my lip. One in my clit. And I wear a stud in my tongue.
vincent		 Excuse me, sorry to interrupt. I'm curious, why would you get a stud in your tongue?
jody		It's a sex thing. It helps fellatio.
lance		Now this is Panda, from Mexico. Very good stuff. This is Bava, different, but equally good. And this is Choco from the Hartz Mountains of Germany. Now the first two are the same, forty- five an ounce  those are friend prices  but this one...  ...this one's a little more expensive. It's fifty-five. But when you shoot it, you'll know where that extra money went.  Nothing wrong with the first two. It's real, real, real, good shit. But this one's a fuckin' madman.
vincent		Remember, I just got back from Amsterdam.
lance		Am I a nigger? Are you in Inglewood? No.  You're in my house. White people who know the difference between good shit and bad shit, this is the house they come to. My shit, I'll take the Pepsi Challenge with Amsterdam shit any ol' day of the fuckin' week.
vincent		That's a bold statement.
lance		This ain't Amsterdam, Vince. This is a seller's market. Coke is fuckin' dead as disco. Heroin's comin' back in a big fuckin' way. It's this whole seventies retro. Bell bottoms, heroin, they're as hot as hell.
vincent		Give me three hundred worth of the madman.  If it's as good as you say, I'll be back for a thousand.
lance		I just hope I still have it. Whaddya think of Trudi? She ain't got a boyfriend, wanna hand out an' get high?
vincent		Which one's Trudi? The one with all the shit in her face?
lance		No, that's Jody. That's my wife.
vincent		I'm on my way somewhere. I got a dinner engagement. Rain check?
lance		No problem?
vincent		You don't mind if I shoot up here?
lance		Me casa, su casa.
vincent		Mucho gracias.
lance		Still got your Malibu?
vincent		You know what some fucker did to it the other day?
lance		What?
vincent		Fuckin' keyed it.
lance		Oh man, that's fucked up.
vincent		Tell me about it. I had the goddamn thing in storage three years. It's out five fuckin' days  five days, and some dickless piece of shit fucks with it.
lance		They should be fuckin' killed. No trial, no jury, straight to execution.
vincent		I just wish I caught 'em doin' it, ya know?  Oh man, I'd give anything to catch 'em doin' it. It'a been worth his doin' it, if I coulda just caught 'em, you know what I mean?
lance		It's chicken shit. You don't fuck another man's vehicle.
vincent		Hello?
mia		 Vincent.
mia		 Vincent. I'm on the intercom.
mia		 It's on the wall by the two African fellas.
mia		 To your right.
mia		...warm. Warmer. Disco.
vincent		Hello.
mia		 Push the button if you want to talk.
vincent		 Hello.
mia		 Go make yourself a drink., and I'll be down in two shakes of a lamb's tail.
mia		 The bar's by the fireplace.
mia		Let's go.
vincent		What the fuck is this place?
mia		This is Jackrabbit Slim's. An Elvis man should love it.
vincent		Come on, Mia, let's go get a steak.
mia		You can get a steak here, daddy-o. Don't be a...
vincent		After you, kitty-cat.
buddy		Hi, I'm Buddy, what can I get'cha?
vincent		I'll have the Douglas Sirk steak.
buddy		How d'ya want it, burnt to a crisp, or bloody as hell?
vincent		Bloody as hell. And to drink, a vanilla coke.
buddy		How 'bout you, Peggy Sue?
mia		I'll have the Durwood Kirby burger bloody  and a five-dollar shake.
buddy		How d'ya want that shake, Martin and Lewis, or Amos and Andy?
mia		Martin and Lewis.
vincent		Did you just order a five-dollar shake?
mia		Sure did.
vincent		A shake? Milk and ice cream?
mia		Uh-huh.
vincent		It costs five dollars?
buddy		Yep.
vincent		You don't put bourbon in it or anything?
buddy		Nope.
vincent		Just checking.
mia		Whaddya think?
vincent		It's like a wax museum with a pulse rate.
mia		What are you doing?
vincent		Rollin' a smoke.
mia		Here?
vincent		It's just tobacco.
mia		Oh. Well in that case, will you roll me one, cowboy?
vincent		You can have this one, cowgirl.
mia		Thanks.
vincent		Think nothing of it.
mia		Marsellus said you just got back from Amsterdam.
vincent		Sure did. I heard you did a pilot.
mia		That was my fifteen minutes.
vincent		What was it?
mia		It was show about a team of female secret agents called "Fox Force Five."
vincent		What?
mia		"Fox Force Five." Fox, as in we're a bunch of foxy chicks. Force, as in we're a force to be reckoned with. Five, as in there's one... two ... three... four... five of us. There was a blonde one, Sommerset O'Neal from that show "Baton Rouge," she was the leader. A Japanese one, a black one, a French one and a brunette one, me.  We all had special skills. Sommerset had a photographic memory, the Japanese fox was a kung fu master, the black girl was a demolition expert, the French fox' specialty was sex...
vincent		What was your specialty?
mia		Knives. The character I played, Raven McCoy, her background was she was raised by circus performers. So she grew up doing a knife act. According to the show, she was the deadliest woman in the world with a knife. But because she grew up in a circus, she was also something of an acrobat. She could do illusions, she was a trapeze artist  when you're keeping the world safe from evil, you never know when being a trapeze artist's gonna come in handy. And she knew a zillion old jokes her grandfather, an old vaudevillian, taught her. If we woulda got picked up, they woulda worked in a gimmick where every episode I woulda told and ol joke.
vincent		Do you remember any of the jokes?
mia		Well I only got the chance to say one, 'cause we only did one show.
vincent		Tell me.
mia		No. It's really corny.
vincent		C'mon, don't be that way.
mia		No. You won't like it and I'll be embarrassed.
vincent		You told it in front of fifty million people and you can't tell it to me? I promise I won't laugh.
mia		 That's what I'm afraid of.
vincent		That's not what I meant and you know it.
mia		You're quite the silver tongue devil, aren't you?
vincent		I meant I wouldn't laugh at you.
mia		That's not what you said Vince. Well now I'm definitely not gonna tell ya, 'cause it's been built up too much.
vincent		What a gyp.
mia		Yummy!
vincent		Can I have a sip of that? I'd like to know what a five-dollar shake tastes like.
mia		Be my guest.
mia		You can use my straw, I don't have kooties.
vincent		Yeah, but maybe I do.
mia		Kooties I can handle.
vincent		Goddamn! That's a pretty fuckin' good milk shake.
mia		Told ya.
vincent		I don't know if it's worth five dollars, but it's pretty fuckin' good.
mia		Don't you hate that?
vincent		What?
mia		Uncomfortable silences. Why do we feel it's necessary to yak about bullshit in order to be comfortable?
vincent		I don't know.
mia		That's when you know you found somebody special. When you can just shit the fuck up for a minute, and comfortably share silence.
vincent		I don't think we're there yet. But don't feel bad, we just met each other.
mia		Well I'll tell you what, I'll go to the bathroom and powder my nose, while you sit here and think of something to say.
vincent		I'll do that.
mia		 I said goddamn!
mia		Don't you love it when you go to the bathroom and you come back to find your food waiting for you?
vincent		We're lucky we got it at all. Buddy Holly doesn't seem to be much of a waiter. We shoulda sat in Marilyn Monroe's section.
mia		Which one, there's two Marilyn Monroes.
vincent		No there's not.
vincent		That's Marilyn Monroe...
vincent		... and that's Mamie Van Doren. I don't see Jayne Mansfield, so it must be her night off.
mia		Pretty smart.
vincent		I have moments.
mia		Did ya think of something to say?
vincent		Actually, there's something I've wanted to ask you about, but you seem like a nice person, and I didn't want to offend you.
mia		Oooohhhh, this doesn't sound like mindless, boring, getting-to-know- you chit-chat. This sounds like you actually have something to say.
vincent		Only if you promise not to get offended.
mia		You can't promise something like that. I have no idea what you're gonna ask. You could ask me what you're gonna ask me, and my natural response could be to be offended. Then, through no fault of my own, I woulda broken my promise.
vincent		Then let's just forget it.
mia		That is an impossibility. Trying to forget anything as intriguing as this would be an exercise in futility.
vincent		Is that a fact?
mia		Besides, it's more exciting when you don't have permission.
vincent		What do you think about what happened to Antwan?
mia		Who's Antwan?
vincent		Tony Rocky Horror.
mia		He fell out of a window.
vincent		That's one way to say it. Another way is, he was thrown out. Another was is, he was thrown out by Marsellus. And even another way is, he was thrown out of a window by Marsellus because of you.
mia		Is that a fact?
vincent		No it's not, it's just what I heard.
mia		Who told you this?
vincent		They.
mia		They talk a lot, don't they?
vincent		They certainly do.
mia		Well don't by shy Vincent, what exactly did they say?
mia		Let me help you Bashful, did it involve the F-word?
vincent		No. They just said Rocky Horror gave you a foot massage.
mia		And...?
vincent		No and, that's it.
mia		You heard Marsellus threw Rocky Horror out of a four-story window because he massaged my feet?
vincent		Yeah.
mia		And you believed that?
vincent		At the time I was told, it seemed reasonable.
mia		Marsellus throwing Tony out of a four story window for giving me a foot massage seemed reasonable?
vincent		No, it seemed excessive. But that doesn't mean it didn't happen. I heard Marsellus is very protective of you.
mia		A husband being protective of his wife is one thing. A husband almost killing another man for touching his wife's feet is something else.
vincent		But did it happen?
mia		The only thing Antwan ever touched of mine was my hand, when he shook it. I met Anwan once  at my wedding then never again.  The truth is, nobody knows why Marsellus tossed Tony Rocky Horror out of that window except Marsellus and Tony Rocky Horror. But when you scamps get together, you're worse than a sewing circle.
ed sullivan		 Ladies and gentlemen, now the moment you've all been waiting for, the worldfamous Jackrabbit Slim's twist contest.
ed sullivan		...One lucky couple will win this handsome trophy that Marilyn here is holding.
ed sullivan		...Now, who will be our first contestants?
mia		Right here.
mia		I wanna dance.
vincent		No, no, no no, no, no, no, no.
mia		 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I do believe Marsellus, my husband, your boss, told you to take me out and do whatever I wanted, Now, I want to dance. I want to win. I want that trophy.
vincent		 All right.
mia		So, dance good.
vincent		All right, you asked for it.
ed sullivan		 Let's hear it for our first contestants.
ed sullivan		Now let's meet our first contestants here this evening. Young lady, what is your name?
mia		 Missus Mia Wallace.
ed sullivan		 And, uh, how 'bout your fella here?
mia		 Vincent Vega.
ed sullivan		 All right, let's see what you can do. Take it away!
vincent		Was than an uncomfortable silence?
mia		I don't know what that was.  Music and drinks!
vincent		I'm gonna take a piss.
mia		That was a little bit more information than I needed to know, but go right ahead.
mia		 Disco! Vince, you little cola nut, you've been holding out on me.
vincent		One drink and leave. Don't be rude, but drink your drink quickly, say goodbye, walk out the door, get in your car, and go down the road.
vincent		...It's a moral test of yourself, whether or not you can maintain loyalty. Because when people are loyal to each other, that's very meaningful.
vincent		So you're gonna go out there, drink your drink, say "Goodnight, I've had a very lovely evening," go home, and jack off.  And that's all you're gonna do.
vincent		Jesus Christ!
vincent		 Mia! MIA! What the hell happened?
vincent		 Mia! MIA! What did you take? Answer me honey, what did you take?
vincent		 Okay honey, we're getting you on your feet.
vincent		We're on our feet now, and now we're gonna talk out to the car. Here we go, watch us walk.
lance		 I can hear it!
lance		 Hello, do you know how late it is? You're not supposed to be callin' me this fuckin' late.
vincent		Lance, this is Vincent, I'm in big fuckin' trouble man, I'm on my way to your place.
lance		Whoa, hold you horses man, what's the problem?
vincent		You still got an adrenaline shot?
lance		 Maybe.
vincent		I need it man, I got a chick she's fuckin'  Doing on me.
lance		Don't bring her here!  I'm not even fuckin' joking with you, don't you be bringing some fucked up pooh-butt to my house!
vincent		No choice.
lance		She's ODin'?
vincent		Yeah. She's dyin'.
lance		Then bite the fuckin' bullet, take 'er to a hospital and call a lawyer!
vincent		Negative.
lance		She ain't my fuckin' problem, you fucked her up, you deal with it are you talkin' to me on a cellular phone?
vincent		Sorry.
lance		I don't know you, who is this, don't come here, I'm hangin' up.
vincent		Too late, I'm already here.
lance		Have you lost your mind?! You crashed your car in my fuckin' house! You talk about drug shit on a cellular fuckin' phone
vincent		If you're through havin' your little hissy fit, this chick is dyin', get your needle and git it now!
lance		Are you deaf? You're not bringin' that fucked up bitch in my house!
vincent		This fucked up bitch is Marsellus Wallace's wife. Now if she fuckin' croaks on me, I'm a grease spot. But before he turns me into a bar soap, I'm gonna be forced to tell 'im about how you coulda saved her life, but instead you let her die on your front lawn.
jody		It's only one-thirty in the goddamn mornin'! What the fuck's goin' on out here?
jody		Who's she?
lance		Get that black box in the bedroom I have with the adrenaline shot.
jody		What's wrong with her?
vincent		She's ODing on us.
jody		Well get her the hell outta here!
jody		Don't yell and me!
vincent		 You two are a match made in heaven.
lance		Look, just keep talkin' to her, okay? While she's gettin' the shot, I gotta get a medical book.
vincent		What do you need a medical book for?
lance		To tell me how to do it. I've never given an adrenaline shot before.
vincent		You've had that thing for six years and you never used it?
lance		I never had to use it. I don't go joypoppin' with bubble-gummers, all of my friends can handle their highs!
vincent		Well then get it.
lance		I am, if you'll let me.
vincent		I'm not fuckin' stoppin' you.
lance		Stop talkin' to me, and start talkin' to her.
lance		 I'm looking as fast as I can!
lance		My black medical book!
jody		Whata're you looking for?
lance		My black fuckin' medical book. It's like a text book they give to nurses.
jody		I never saw a medical book.
lance		Trust me, I have one.
jody		Well if it's that important, why didn't you keep it with the shot?
lance		I don't know! Stop bothering me!
jody		While you're lookin' for it, that girl's gonna die on our carpet. You're never gonna find it in all this shit. For six months now, I've been telling you to clean this room
vincent		Quit fuckin' around man and give her the shot!
lance		While I'm doing this, take her shirt off and find her heart.
vincent		Does it have to be exact?
lance		Yeah, it has to be exact! I'm giving her an injection in the heart, so I gotta exactly hit her in the heart.
vincent		Well, I don't know exactly where her heart is, I think it's here.
lance		That's it.
vincent		I need a big fat magic marker, got one?
jody		What?
vincent		I need a big fat magic marker, any felt pen'll do, but a magic marker would be great.
jody		Hold on.
lance		It's ready, I'll tell you what to do.
vincent		You're gonna give her the shot.
lance		No, you're gonna give her the shot.
vincent		I've never does this before.
lance		I've never done this before either, and I ain't starting now. You brought 'er here, that means you give her the shot. The day I bring an ODing bitch to your place, then I gotta give her the shot.
jody		Got it.
vincent		Okay, what do I do?
lance		Well, you're giving her an injection of adrenaline straight to her heart. But she's got a breast plate in front of her heart, so you gotta pierce through that. So what you gotta do is bring the needle down in a stabbing motion.
vincent		I gotta stab her?
lance		If you want the needle to pierce through to her heart, you gotta stab her hard.
vincent		What happens after that?
lance		I'm curious about that myself.
vincent		This ain't a fuckin' joke man!
lance		She's supposed to come out of it like  that.
vincent		Count to three.
lance		One...
lance		If you're okay, say something.
mia		Something.
jody		Anybody want a beer?
vincent		What are your thoughts on how to handle this?
mia		What's yours?
vincent		Well I'm of the opinion that Marsellus can live his whole live and never ever hear of this incident.
mia		Don't worry about it. If Marsellus ever heard of this, I'd be in as much trouble as you.
vincent		I seriously doubt that.
mia		If you can keep a secret, so can I.
vincent		Let's shake on it.
vincent		Mum's the word.
vincent		If you'll excuse me, I gotta go home and have a heart attack.
mia		You still wanna hear my "FOX FORCE FIVE" joke?
vincent		Sure, but I think I'm still a little too petrified to laugh.
mia		Uh-huh. You won't laugh because it's not funny. But if you still wanna hear it, I'll tell it.
vincent		I can't wait.
mia		Three tomatoes are walking down the street, a poppa tomato, a momma tomato, and a little baby tomato. The baby tomato is lagging behind the poppa and momma tomato. The poppa tomato gets mad, goes over to the momma tomato and stamps on him  and says: catch up.
mia		See ya 'round, Vince.
mother		Butch, stop watching TV a second. We got a special visitor. Now do you remember when I told you your daddy dies in a P.O.W. camp?
mother		Well this here is Capt. Koons. He was in the P.O.W. camp with Daddy.
klondike		It's time, Butch.
butch		I'm ready.
esmarelda		 Are you the man I was supposed to pick up?
butch		If you're the cab I called, I'm the guy you're supposed to pick up.
esmarelda		Where to?
butch		Outta here.
vincent		Mia. How you doin'?
mia		Great. I never thanked you for the dinner.
english dave		He booked.
english dave		I'll take care of it.
butch		Hey, how do I open the window back here?
esmarelda		I have to do it.
esmarelda		Hey, mister?
butch		 What?
esmarelda		You were in that fight? The fight on the radio  you're the fighter?
butch		Whatever gave you that idea?
esmarelda		No c'mon, you're him, I know you're him, tell me you're him.
butch		 I'm him.
esmarelda		You killed the other boxing man.
butch		He's dead?
esmarelda		The radio said he was dead.
butch		 Sorry 'bout that, Floyd.
esmarelda		What does it feel like?
butch		 What does what feel like?
esmarelda		Killing a man. Beating another man to death with your bare hands.
butch		Are you some kinda weirdo?
esmarelda		No, it's a subject I have much interest in. You are the first person I ever met who has killed somebody. So, what was it like to kill a man?
butch		Tell ya what, you give me one of them cigarettes, I'll give you an answer.
esmarelda		Deal!
butch		So...
butch		...Esmarelda Villalobos  is that Mexican?
esmarelda		The name is Spanish, but I'm Columbian.
butch		It's a very pretty name.
esmarelda		It mean "Esmarelda of the wolves."
butch		That's one hell of a name you got there, sister.
esmarelda		Thank you. And what is your name?
butch		Butch.
esmarelda		Butch. What does it mean?
butch		I'm an American, our names don't mean shit. Anyway, moving right along, what is it you wanna know, Esmarelda?
esmarelda		I want to know what it feels like to kill a man
butch		I couldn't tell ya. I didn't know he was dead 'til you told me he was dead. Now I know he's dead, do you wanna know how I feel about it?
butch		I don't feel the least little bit bad.
butch		 What'd I tell ya, soon as the word got out a fix was in, the odds would be outta control. Hey, if he was a better fighter he's be alive. If he never laced up his gloves in the first place, which he never shoulda done, he'd be alive. Enough about the poor unfortunate Mr. Floyd, let's talk about the rich and prosperous Mr. Butch.  How many bookies you spread it around with?
butch		 Fabienne my love, our adventure begins.
esmarelda		Forty-five sixty.
butch		Merci beaucoup. And here's a little something for the effort.
butch		Now if anybody should ask you about who your fare was tonight, what're you gonna tell 'em?
esmarelda		The truth. Three well-dressed, slightly toasted, Mexicans.
butch		Bon soir, Esmarelda.
esmarelda		 Sleep well, Butch.
fabienne		Keep the light off.
butch		Is that better, sugar pop?
fabienne		Oui. Hard day at the office?
butch		Pretty hard. I got into a fight.
fabienne		Poor baby. Can we make spoons?
fabienne		I was looking at myself in the mirror.
butch		Uh-huh?
fabienne		I wish I had a pot.
butch		You were lookin' in the mirror and you wish you had some pot?
fabienne		A pot. A pot belly. Pot bellies are sexy.
butch		Well you should be happy, 'cause you do.
fabienne		Shut up, Fatso! I don't have a pot! I have a bit of a tummy, like Madonna when she did "Lucky Star," it's not the same thing.
butch		I didn't realize there was a difference between a tummy and a pot belly.
fabienne		The difference is huge.
butch		You want me to have a pot?
fabienne		No. Pot bellies make a man look either oafish, or like a gorilla. But on a woman, a pot belly is very sexy. The rest of you is normal. Normal face, normal legs, normal hips, normal ass, but with a big, perfectly round pot belly. If I had one, I'd wear a tee-shirt two sizes too small to accentuate it.
butch		You think guys would find that attractive?
fabienne		I don't give a damn what men find attractive. It's unfortunate what we find pleasing to the touch and pleasing to the eye is seldom the same.
butch		If you a pot belly, I'd punch you in it.
fabienne		You'd punch me in my belly?
butch		Right in the belly.
fabienne		I'd smother you. I'd drop it on your right on your face 'til you couldn't breathe.
butch		You'd do that to me?
fabienne		Yes!
butch		Did you get everything, sugar pop?
fabienne		Yes, I did.
butch		Good job.
fabienne		Did everything go as planned?
butch		You didn't listen to the radio?
fabienne		I never listen to your fights. Were you the winner?
butch		I won alright.
fabienne		Are you still retiring?
butch		Sure am.
fabienne		What about the man you fought?
butch		Floyd retired too.
fabienne		 Really?! He won't be fighting no more?!
butch		Not no more.
fabienne		So it all worked out in the finish?
butch		We ain't at the finish, baby.
fabienne		We're in a lot of danger, aren't we?
fabienne		If they find us, they'll kill us, won't they?
fabienne		But they won't find us, will they?
fabienne		Do you still want me to go with you?
fabienne		I don't want to be a burden or a nuisance -
fabienne		Say it!
butch		Fabienne, I want you to be with me.
fabienne		Forever?
butch		...and ever.
fabienne		Do you love me?
butch		Oui.
fabienne		Butch? Will you give me oral pleasure?
butch		Will you kiss it?
fabienne		But you first.
fabienne		 Butch my love, the adventure begins.
butch		I think I cracked a rib.
fabienne		Giving me oral pleasure?
butch		No retard, from the fight.
fabienne		Don't call me retard.
butch		 My name is Fabby! My name is Fabby!
fabienne		Shut up fuck head! I hate that Mongoloid voice.
butch		Okay, sorry, sorry, sorry, I take it back!  Can I have a towel please, Miss Beautiful Tulip.
fabienne		Oh I like that, I like being called a tulip. Tulip is much better than Mongoloid.
butch		I didn't call you a Mongoloid, I called you a retard, but I took it back.
butch		Merci beaucoup.
fabienne		Butch?
butch		 Yes, lemon pie.
fabienne		Where are we going to go?
butch		I'm not sure yet. Wherever you want. We're gonna get a lot of money from this. But it ain't gonna be so much, we can live like hogs in the fat house forever. I was thinking we could go somewhere in the South Pacific. The kinda money we'll have'll carry us a long way down there.
fabienne		So if we wanted, we could live in Bora Bora?
butch		You betcha. And if after awhile you don't dig Bora Bora, then we can move over to Tahiti or Mexico.
fabienne		But I do not speak Spanish.
butch		You don't speak Bora Boran either. Besides, Mexican is easy: Donde esta el zapataria?
fabienne		What does that mean?
butch		Where's the shoe store?
fabienne		Donde esta el zapataria?
butch		Excellent pronunciation. You'll be my little mama ceta in no time.
fabienne		Que hora es?
fabienne		What time is it?
fabienne		Butch.
fabienne		Forget it.
fabienne		Merde! You startled me. Did you have a bad dream?
butch		What are you watching?
fabienne		A motorcycle movie, I'm not sure the name.
butch		Are you watchin' it?
fabienne		In a way. Why? Would you like for me to switch it off?
butch		Would you please?
butch		It's a little too early in the morning for explosions and war.
fabienne		What was it about?
butch		How should I know, you were the one watchin' it.
fabienne		No, imbecile, what was your dream about?
butch		Oh, I... don't remember. It's really rare I remember a dream.
fabienne		You just woke up from it.
butch		Fabienne, I'm not lying to you, I don't remember.
fabienne		Well, let's look at the grumpy man in the morning. I didn't say you were lying, it's just odd you don't remember your dreams. I always remember mine. Did you know you talk in your sleep?
butch		I don't talk in my sleep, do I talk in my sleep?
fabienne		You did last night.
butch		What did I say?
fabienne		I don't know. I couldn't understand you.
fabienne		Why don't you get up and we'll get some breakfast at that breakfast place with the pancakes.
butch		One more kiss and I'll get up.
fabienne		Satisfied?
butch		Yep.
fabienne		Then get up, lazy bones.
butch		What time is it?
fabienne		Almost nine in the morning. What time does our train arrive?
butch		Eleven.
fabienne		I'm gonna order a big plate of blueberry pancakes with maple syrup, eggs over easy, and five sausages.
butch		 Anything to drink with that?
fabienne		 Oh yes, that looks nice. To drink, a tall glass or orange juice and a black cup of coffee. After that, I'm going to have a slice of pie.
butch		Pie for breakfast?
fabienne		Any time of the day is a good time for pie. Blueberry pie to go with the pancakes. And on top, a thin slice of melted cheese
butch		where's my watch?
fabienne		It's there.
butch		No, it's not. It's not here.
fabienne		Have you looked?
butch		Yes I've fuckin' looked!!
butch		What the fuck do you think I'm doing?! Are you sure you got it?
fabienne		Uhhh... yes... beside the table drawer
butch		on the little kangaroo.
fabienne		Yes, it was on your little kangaroo.
butch		Well it's not here!
fabienne		 Well it should be!
butch		Oh it most definitely should be here, but it's not. So where is it?
butch		Fabienne, that was my father's fuckin' watch. You know what my father went through to git me that watch?... I don't wanna get into it right now... but he went through a lot. Now all this other shit, you coulda set on fire, but I specifically reminded you not to forget my father's watch. Now think, did you get it?
fabienne		I believe so...
butch		You believe so? You either did, or you didn't, now which one is it?
fabienne		Then I did.
butch		Are you sure?
fabienne		 No.
butch		 You left it at the apartment.
butch		If you did leave it at the apartment, it's not your fault. I had you bring a bunch of stuff. I reminded you about it, but I didn't illustrate how personal the watch was to me. If all I gave a fuck about was my watch, I should've told you. You ain't a mind reader.
fabienne		I'm sorry.
butch		Don't be. It just means I won't be able to eat breakfast with you.
fabienne		Why does it mean that?
butch		Because I'm going back to my apartment to get my watch.
fabienne		Won't the gangsters be looking for you there?
butch		That's what I'm gonna find out. If they are, and I don't think I can handle it, I'll split.
fabienne		I was so dreadful. I saw your watch, I thought I brought it. I'm so sorry.
butch		Don't feel bad, sugar pop. Nothing you could ever do would make me permanently angry at you.  Now here's some money, order those pancakes and have a great breakfast.
fabienne		Don't go.
butch		I'll be back before you can say, blueberry pie.
fabienne		Blueberry pie.
butch		Well maybe not that fast, but fast. Okay?  Okay?
fabienne		Okay.
butch		Bye-bye, sugar pop.
fabienne		Bye.
butch		I'm gonna take your Honda.
fabienne		Okay.
butch		Of all the fuckin' things she coulda forgot, she forgets my father's watch. I specifically reminded her not to forget it. "Bedside table  on the kangaroo." I said the words: "Don't forget my father's watch."
butch		 Holy shit.
butch		That's how you're gonna beat 'em, Butch.  They keep underestimatin' ya.
pedestrian		Jesus, are you okay?
butch		I guess.
marsellus		 Who?
marsellus		Well, I'll be damned.
butch		Sacre bleu.
maynard		Can I help you wit' somethin'?
butch		Shut up!
maynard		Now you just wait one goddamn minute
butch		So you like chasing people, huh?
butch		Well guess what, big man, you caught me
butch		Look mister, this ain't any of your business
maynard		I'm makin' it my business! Now toss that gun!
maynard		Now you on top, stand up and come to the counter.
maynard		Zed? It's Maynard. The spider just caught a coupl'a flies.
maynard		Nobody kills anybody in my place of business except me or Zed.
maynard		That's Zed.
zed		 You said you waited for me?
maynard		I did.
zed		Then how come they're all beat up?
maynard		They did that to each other. They was fightin' when they came in. This one was gonna shoot that one.
zed		 You were gonna shoot him?
zed		Hey, is Grace gonna be okay in front of this place?
maynard		Yeah, it ain't Tuesday is it?
zed		No, it's Thursday.
maynard		Then she'll be fine.
zed		Bring out The Gimp.
maynard		I think The Gimp's sleepin'.
zed		Well, I guess you'll just wake 'em up then, won't you?
maynard		 Wake up!
maynard		 Down!
maynard		Who's first?
zed		I ain't fer sure yet.
zed		Wanna do it here?
maynard		Naw, drag big boy to Russell's old room.
maynard		 Up!
maynard		Keep an eye on this one.
the gimp		Huhng?
butch		Hey hillbilly.
butch		You want that gun, Zed? Pick it up.
butch		You okay?
marsellus		Naw man. I'm pretty fuckin' far from okay!
butch		What now?
marsellus		What now? Well let me tell you what now.  I'm gonna call a couple pipe- hittin' niggers, who'll go to work on homes here with a pair of pliers and a blow torch.  Hear me talkin' hillbilly boy?! I ain't through with you by a damn sight. I'm gonna git Medieval on your ass.
butch		I meant what now, between me and you?
marsellus		Oh, that what now? Well, let me tell ya what now between me an' you. There is no me an' you. Not no more.
butch		So we're cool?
marsellus		Yeah man, we're cool. One thing I ask  two things I ask: Don't tell nobody about this. This shit's between me and you and the soon-to-be-livin'- the-rest-of-his-short-ass-life-in- agonizing-pain, Mr. Rapist here. It ain't nobody else's business. Two: leave town. Tonight. Right now. And when you're gone, stay gone.  You've lost your Los Angeles privileges. Deal?
butch		Deal.
marsellus		Go on now, get your ass outta here.
marsellus		 Hello Mr. Wolf, it's Marsellus. Gotta bit of a situation.
butch		Honey, grab your radio and your purse and let's go!
butch		Fuck the bags. We'll miss our train if we don't split now.
butch		We're cool. In fact, we're super- cool. But we gots to go. I'll wait for you outside.
fabienne		Where did you get this motorcycle?
butch		 It's a chopper, baby, hop on.
fabienne		What happened to my Honda?
butch		Sorry baby, I crashed the Honda.
fabienne		You're hurt?
butch		I might've broke my nose, no biggie. Hop on.
butch		Honey, we gotta hit the fuckin' road!
butch		I'm sorry, baby-love.
fabienne		 You were gone so long, I started to think dreadful thoughts.
butch		I'm sorry I worried you, sweetie. Everything's fine. Hey, how was breakfast?
fabienne		 It was good
butch		did you get the blueberry pancakes?
fabienne		No, they didn't have blueberry pancakes, I had to get buttermilk are you sure you're okay?
butch		Baby-love, from the moment I left you, this has been without a doubt the single weirdest day of my entire life. Climb on an' I'll tell ya about it.
fabienne		Butch, whose motorcycle is this?
butch		It's a chopper.
fabienne		Whose chopper is this?
butch		Zed's.
fabienne		Who's Zed?
butch		Zed's dead, baby, Zed's dead.
fourth man		Die... die... die... die...!
fourth man		I don't understand
vincent		Why the fuck didn't you tell us about that guy in the bathroom? Slip your mind?  Forget he was in there with a goddamn hand cannon?
jules		 Did you see that gun he fired at us? It was bigger than him.
jules		We should be fuckin' dead!
vincent		Yeah, we were lucky.
jules		That shit wasn't luck. That shit was somethin' else.
vincent		Yeah, maybe.
jules		That was... divine intervention. You know what divine intervention is?
vincent		Yeah, I think so. That means God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets.
jules		Yeah, man, that's what is means. That's exactly what it means! God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets.
vincent		I think we should be going now.
jules		Don't do that! Don't you fuckin' do that!  Don't blow this shit off! What just happened was a fuckin' miracle!
vincent		Chill the fuck out, Jules, this shit happens.
jules		Wrong, wrong, this shit doesn't just happen.
vincent		Do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car, or at the jailhouse with the cops?
jules		We should be fuckin' dead now, my friend!  We just witnessed a miracle, and I want you to fuckin' acknowledge it!
vincent		Okay man, it was a miracle, can we leave now?
vincent		...Ever seen that show "COPS?"  I was watchin' it once and this cop was on it who was talkin' about this time he got into this gun fight with a guy in a hallway. He unloads on this guy and he doesn't hit anything. And these guys were in a hallway. It's a freak, but it happens.
jules		If you wanna play blind man, then go walk with a Shepherd. But me, my eyes are wide fuckin' open.
vincent		What the fuck does that mean?
jules		That's it for me. For here on in, you can consider my ass retired.
vincent		Jesus Christ!
jules		Don't blaspheme!
vincent		Goddammit, Jules
jules		I said don't do that
vincent		you're fuckin' freakin' out!
jules		I'm tellin' Marsellus today I'm through.
vincent		While you're at it, be sure to tell 'im why.
jules		Don't worry, I will.
vincent		I'll bet ya ten thousand dollars, he laughs his ass off.
jules		I don't give a damn if he does.
vincent		Marvin, what do you make of all this?
marvin		I don't even have an opinion.
vincent		C'mon, Marvin. Do you think God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets?
jules		What the fuck's happening?
vincent		I just accidentally shot Marvin in the throat.
jules		Why the fuck did you do that?
vincent		I didn't mean to do it. I said it was an accident.
jules		I've seen a lot of crazy-ass shit in my time
vincent		chill out, man, it was an accident, okay? You hit a bump or somethin' and the gun went off.
jules		The car didn't hit no motherfuckin' bump!
vincent		Look! I didn't mean to shoot this son-ofa-bitch, the gun just went off, don't ask me how!
jules		Look at this mess! We're drivin' around on a city street in broad daylight
vincent		I know, I know, I wasn't thinkin' about the splatter.
jules		Well you better be thinkin' about it now, motherfucker! We gotta get this car off the road. Cops tend to notice shit like you're driving a car drenched in fuckin' blood.
vincent		Can't we just take it to a friendly place?
jules		This is the Valley, Vincent. Marsellus don't got no friendly places in the Valley.
vincent		Well, don't look at me, this is your town, Jules.
vincent		Who ya callin'?
jules		A buddy of mine in Toluca Lake.
vincent		Where's Toluca Lake.
jules		On the other side of the hill, by Burbank Studios. If Jimmie's ass ain't home, I don't know what the fuck we're gonna go. I ain't got any other partners in 818.  Listen up man, me an' my homeboy are in some serious shit. We're in a car we gotta get off the road, pronto! I need to use your garage for a couple hours.
jules		We gotta be real fuckin' delicate with this Jimmie's situation. He's one remark away from kickin' our asses out the door.
vincent		If he kicks us out, whadda we do?
jules		Well, we ain't leavin' 'til we made a couple phone calls. But I never want it to reach that pitch. Jimmie's my friend and you don't bust in your friend's house and start tellin' 'im what's what.
vincent		Just tell 'im not to be abusive. He kinda freaked out back there when he saw Marvin.
jules		Put yourself in his position. It's eight o'clock in the morning. He just woke up, he wasn't prepared for this shit. Don't forget who's doin' who a favor.
vincent		If the price of that favor is I gotta take shit, he can stick his favor straight up his ass.
jules		What the fuck did you just do to his towel?
vincent		I was just dryin' my hands.
jules		You're supposed to wash 'em first.
vincent		You watched me wash 'em.
jules		I watched you get 'em wet.
vincent		I washed 'em. Blood's real hard to get off. Maybe if he had some Lava, I coulda done a better job.
jules		I used the same soap you did and when I dried my hands, the towel didn't look like a fuckin' Maxie pad. Look, fuck it, alright. Who cares? But it's shit like this that's gonna bring this situation to a boil. If he were to come in here and see that towel like that... I'm tellin' you Vincent, you best be cool. 'Cause if I gotta get in to it with Jimmie on account of you... Look, I ain't threatenin' you, I respect you an' all, just don't put me in that position.
jules		Jules, you ask me nice like that, no problem. He's your friend, you handle him.
jules		Goddamn Jimmie, this is some serious gourmet shit. Me an' Vincent woulda been satisfied with freeze-dried Tasters Choice. You spring this gourmet fuckin' shit on us. What flavor is this?
jimmie		Knock it off, Julie.
jules		What?
jimmie		I'm not a cobb or corn, so you can stop butterin' me up. I don't need you to tell me how good my coffee is. I'm the one who buys it, I know how fuckin' good it is.  When Bonnie goes shoppin;, she buys shit.  I buy the gourmet expensive stuff 'cause when I drink it, I wanna taste it. But what's on my mind at this moment isn't the coffee in my kitchen, it's the dead nigger in my garage.
jules		Jimmie
jimmie		I'm talkin'. Now let me ask you a question, Jules. When you drove in here, did you notice a sign out front that said, "Dead nigger storage?"
jimmie		answer to question. Did you see a sign out in front of my house that said, "Dead nigger storage?"
jules		 Naw man, I didn't.
jimmie		You know why you didn't see that sign?
jules		Why?
jimmie		'Cause storin' dead niggers ain't my fuckin' business!
jimmie		I ain't through! Now don't you understand that if Bonnie comes home and finds a dead body in her house, I'm gonna get divorced. No marriage counselor, no trial separation fuckin' divorced. And I don't wanna get fuckin' divorced. The last time me an' Bonnie talked about this shit was gonna be the last time me an' Bonnie talked about this shit. Now I wanna help ya out Julie, I really do. But I ain't gonna lose my wife doin' it.
jules		Jimmie
jimmie		don't fuckin' Jimmie me, man, I can't be Jimmied. There's nothin' you can say that's gonna make me forget I love my wife. Now she's workin' the graveyard shift at the hospital. She'll be comin' home in less than an hour and a half. Make your phone calls, talk to your people, than get the fuck out of my house.
jules		That's all we want. We don't wanna fuck up your shit. We just need to call our people to bring us in.
jimmie		Then I suggest you get to it. Phone's in my bedroom.
marsellus		...well, say she comes home. Whaddya think she'll do?  No fuckin' shit she'll freak. That ain't no kinda answer. You know 'er, I don't.  How bad, a lot or a little?
jules		You got to appreciate what an explosive element this Bonnie situation is. If she comes home from a hard day's work and finds a bunch of gangsters doin' a bunch of gangsta' shit in her kitchen, ain't no tellin' what she's apt to do.
marsellus		I've grasped that, Jules. All I'm doin' is contemplating the "ifs."
jules		I don't wanna hear about no motherfuckin' "ifs."What I wanna hear from your ass is: "you ain't got no problems, Jules. I'm on the motherfucker. Go back in there, chill them niggers out and wait for the cavalry, which should be comin' directly."
marsellus		You ain't got no problems, Jules. I'm on the motherfucker. Go back in there, chill them niggers out and wait for The Wolf, who should be comin' directly.
jules		You sendin' The Wolf?
marsellus		Feel better?
jules		Shit Negro, that's all you had to say.
the wolf		 Jules...
the wolf		...Vincent... Jimmie... Bonnie...
the wolf		Expect a call around 10:30. It's about thirty minutes away. I'll be there in ten.
the wolf		You're Jimmie, right? This is your house?
jimmie		Yeah.
the wolf		 I'm Winston Wolf, I solve problems.
jimmie		Good, 'cause we got one.
the wolf		So I heard. May I come in?
jimmie		Please do.
the wolf		You must be Jules, which would make you Vincent. Let's get down to brass tacks, gentlemen. If I was informed correctly, the clock is ticking, is that right, Jimmie?
jimmie		100%.
the wolf		Your wife, Bonnie...  ...comes home at 9:30 in the AM, is that correct?
jimmie		Uh-huh.
the wolf		I was led to believe if she comes home and finds us here, she wouldn't appreciate it none too much.
jimmie		She won't at that.
the wolf		That gives us forty minutes to get the fuck outta Dodge, which, if you do what I say when I say it, should by plenty. Now you got a corpse in a car, minus a head, in a garage. Take me to it.
the wolf		Jimmie?
jimmie		Yes.
the wolf		Do me a favor, will ya? Thought I smelled some coffee in there. Would you make me a cup?
jimmie		Sure, how do you take it?
the wolf		Lotsa cream, lotsa sugar.
the wolf		About the car, is there anything I need to know? Does it stall, does it make a lot of noise, does it smoke, is there gas in it, anything?
jules		Aside from how it looks, the car's cool.
the wolf		Positive?  Don't get me out on the road and I find out the brake lights don't work.
jules		Hey man, as far as I know, the motherfucker's tip-top.
the wolf		Good enough, let's go back to the kitchen.
the wolf		Thank you, Jimmie.
the wolf		Okay first thing, you two.  Take the body, stick it in the trunk. Now Jimmie, this looks to be a pretty domesticated house. That would lead me to believe that in the garage or under the sink, you got a bunch of cleansers and cleaners and shit like that, am I correct?
jimmie		Yeah. Exactly. Under the sink.
the wolf		Good. What I need you two fellas to do is take those cleaning products and clean the inside of the car. And I'm talkin' fast, fast, fast. You need to go in the backseat, scoop up all those little pieces of brain and skull. Get it out of there.  Wipe down the upholstery  now when it comes to upholstery, it don't need to be spic and span, you don't need to eat off it. Give it a good once over. What you need to take care of are the really messy parts. The pools of blood that have collected, you gotta soak that shit up.  But the windows are a different story.  Them you really clean. Get the Windex, do a good job. Now Jimmie, we need to raid your linen closet. I need blankets, I need comforters, I need quilts, I need bedspreads. The thicker the better, the darker the better. No whites, can't use 'em. We need to camouflage the interior of the car. We're gonna line the front seat and the backseat and the floor boards with quilts and blankets. If a cop stops us and starts stickin' his big snout in the car, the subterfuge won't last. But at a glance, the car will appear to be normal.  Jimmie lead the way, boys  get to work.
vincent		 A "please" would be nice.
the wolf		Come again?
vincent		I said a "please" would be nice.
the wolf		Set is straight, Buster. I'm not here to say "please."I'm here to tell you want to do. And if self- preservation is an instinct you possess, you better fuckin' do it and do it quick. I'm here to help. If my help's not appreciated, lotsa luck gentlemen.
jules		It ain't that way, Mr. Wolf. Your help is definitely appreciated.
vincent		I don't mean any disrespect. I just don't like people barkin' orders at me.
the wolf		If I'm curt with you, it's because time is a factor. I think fast, I talk fast, and I need you guys to act fast if you want to get out of this. So pretty please, with sugar on top, clean the fuckin' car.
the wolf		 How we comin', Jimmie?
jimmie		Mr. Wolf, you gotta understand somethin'
the wolf		Winston, Jimmie  please, Winston.
jimmie		You gotta understand something, Winston. I want to help you guys out and all, but that's my best linen. It was a wedding present from my Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny, and they ain't with us anymore
the wolf		let me ask you a question, if you don't mind?
jimmie		Sure.
the wolf		Were you Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny millionaires?
jimmie		No.
the wolf		Well, your Uncle Marsellus is. And I'm positive if Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny were millionaires, they would've furnished you with a whole bedroom set, which your Uncle Marsellus is more than happy to do.  I like oak myself, that's what's in my bedroom. How 'bout you Jimmie, you an oak man?
jimmie		Oak's nice.
jules		I will never forgive your ass for this shit. This is some fucked-up repugnant shit!
vincent		Did you ever hear the philosophy that once a man admits he's wrong, he's immediately forgiven for all wrong-doings?
jules		Man, get outta my face with that shit! The motherfucker who said that never had to pick up itty-bitty pieces of skull with his fingers on account of your dumb ass.
vincent		I got a threshold, Jules. I got a threshold for the abuse I'll take. And you're crossin' it. I'm a race car and you got me in the red. Redline 7000, that's where you are. Just know, it's fuckin' dangerous to be drivin' a race car when it's in the red. It could blow.
jules		You're gettin' ready to blow? I'm a mushroom-cloud-layin' motherfucker! Every time my fingers touch brain I'm "SUPERFLY T.N.T," I'm the "GUNS OF NAVARONE." I'm what Jimmie Walker usta talk about. In fact, what the fuck am I doin' in the back?  You're the motherfucker should be on brain detail. We're tradin'. I'm washin' windows and you're pickin' up this nigger's skull.
the wolf		Fine job, gentlemen. We may get out of this yet.
jimmie		I can't believe that's the same car.
the wolf		Well, let's not start suckin' each other's dicks quite yet. Phase one is complete, clean the car, which moves us right along to phase two, clean you two.
the wolf		Strip.
vincent		All the way?
the wolf		To your bare ass.
the wolf		Quickly gentlemen, we got about fifteen minutes before Jimmie's better- half comes pulling into the driveway.
jules		This morning air is some chilly shit.
vincent		Are you sure this is absolutely necessary?
the wolf		You know what you two look like?
vincent		What?
the wolf		Like a couple of guys who just blew off somebody's head. Yes, strippin' off those bloody rags is absolutely necessary. Toss the clothes in Jim's garbage bag.
jules		Now Jimmie, don't do nothin' stupid like puttin' that out in front of your house for Elmo the garbage man to take away.
the wolf		Don't worry, we're takin' it with us. Jim, the soap.
the wolf		Okay gentlemen, you're both been to County before, I'm sure. Here it comes.
jules		Goddamn, that water's fuckin' cold!
the wolf		Better you than me, gentlemen.
the wolf		Don't be afraid of the soap, spread it around.
the wolf		Towel 'em.
the wolf		You're dry enough, give 'em their clothes.
the wolf		Perfect. Perfect. We couldn't've planned this better. You guys look like... what do they look like, Jimmie?
jimmie		Dorks. They look like a couple of dorks.
jules		Ha ha ha. They're your clothes, motherfucker.
jimmie		I guess you just gotta know how to wear them.
jules		Yeah, well, our asses ain't the expert on wearin' dorky shit that your is.
the wolf		C'mon, gentlemen, we're laughin' and jokin' our way into prison. Don't make me beg.
the wolf		Gentlemen, let's get our rules of the road straight. We're going to a place called Monster Joe's Truck and Tow. Monster Joe and his daughter Raquel are sympathetic to out dilemma. The place is North Hollywood, so a few twist and turns aside, we'll be goin' up Hollywood Way. Now I'll drive the tainted car. Jules, you ride with me.  Vincent, you follow in my Porsche. Now if we cross the path of any John Q. Laws, nobody does a fuckin' thing 'til I do something.
jules		Don't do shit unless
the wolf		unless what?
jules		Unless you do it first.
the wolf		Spoken like a true prodigy.  How 'bout you, Lash Larue?  Can you keep your spurs from jingling and jangling?
vincent		I'm cool, Mr. Wolf. My gun just went off, I dunno how.
the wolf		Fair enough.  I drive real fuckin' fast, so keep up. If I get my car back any different than I gave it, Monster Joe's gonna be disposing of two bodies.
jules		We cool?
winston		Like it never happened.
winston		Boys, this is Raquel. Someday, all this will be hers.
raquel		 Hi. You know, if they ever do "I SPY: THE MOTION PICTURE," you guys, I'd be great.  What's with the outfits. You guys going to a volleyball game?
winston		I'm takin' m'lady out to breakfast. Maybe I can drop you two off. Where do you live?
vincent		Redondo Beach.
jules		Inglewood.
winston		 Say goodbye, Raquel.
raquel		Goodbye, Raquel.
winston		I'll see you two around, and stay outta trouble, you crazy kids.
jules		Mr. Wolf.
jules		I was a pleasure watchin' you work.
winston		Call me Winston.
winston		You hear that, young lady? Respect. You could lean a lot from those two fine specimens. Respect for one's elders shows character.
raquel		I have character.
winston		Just because you are a character doesn't mean you have character.
raquel		Oh you're so funny, oh you're so funny.
jules		Wanna share a cab?
vincent		You know I could go for some breakfast.  Want to have breakfast with me?
jules		Sure.
vincent		Thanks a bunch.  Want a sausage?
jules		Naw, I don't eat pork.
vincent		Are you Jewish?
jules		I ain't Jewish man, I just don't dig on swine.
vincent		Why not?
jules		They're filthy animals. I don't eat filthy animals.
vincent		Sausages taste good. Pork chops taste good.
jules		A sewer rat may taste like pumpkin pie.  I'll never know 'cause even if it did, I wouldn't eat the filthy motherfucker. Pigs sleep and root in shit. That's a filthy animal. I don't wanna eat nothin' that ain't got enough sense to disregard its own feces.
vincent		How about dogs? Dogs eat their own feces.
jules		I don't eat dog either.
vincent		Yes, but do you consider a dog to be a filthy animal?
jules		I wouldn't go so far as to call a dog filthy, but they're definitely dirty. But a dog's got personality. And personality goes a long way.
vincent		So by that rationale, if a pig had a better personality, he's cease to be a filthy animal?
jules		We'd have to be talkin' 'bout one motherfuckin' charmin' pig. It'd have to be the Cary Grant of pigs.
vincent		Good for you. Lighten up a little. You been sittin' there all quiet.
jules		I just been sittin' here thinkin'.
vincent		 About what?
jules		The miracle we witnessed.
vincent		The miracle you witnessed. I witnessed a freak occurrence.
jules		Do you know that a miracle is?
vincent		An act of God.
jules		What's an act of God?
vincent		I guess it's when God makes the impossible possible. And I'm sorry Jules, but I don't think what happened this morning qualifies.
jules		Don't you see, Vince, that shit don't matter. You're judging this thing the wrong way. It's not about what. It could be God stopped the bullets, he changed Coke into Pepsi, he found my fuckin' car keys. You don't judge shit like this based on merit. Whether or not what we experienced was an according-to-Hoyle miracle is insignificant. What is significant is I felt God's touch, God got involved.
vincent		But why?
jules		That's what's fuckin' wit' me! I don't know why. But I can't go back to sleep.
vincent		So you're serious, you're really gonna quit?
jules		The life, most definitely.
patron		Garcon! Coffee!
vincent		So if you're quitting the life, what'll you do?
jules		That's what I've been sitting here contemplating. First, I'm gonna deliver this case to Marsellus. Then, basically, I'm gonna walk the earth.
vincent		What do you mean, walk the earth?
jules		You know, like Caine in "KUNG FU." Just walk from town to town, meet people, get in adventures.
vincent		How long do you intend to walk the earth?
jules		Until God puts me where he want me to be.
vincent		What if he never does?
jules		If it takes forever, I'll wait forever.
vincent		So you decided to be a bum?
jules		I'll just be Jules, Vincent  no more, no less.
vincent		No Jules, you're gonna be like those pieces of shit out there who beg for change. They walk around like a bunch of fuckin' zombies, they sleep in garbage bins, they eat what I throw away, and dogs piss on 'em. They got a word for 'em, they're called bums. And without a job, residence, or legal tender, that's what you're gonna be  a fuckin' bum!
jules		Look my friend, this is just where me and you differ
vincent		what happened was peculiar  no doubt about it  but it wasn't water into wine.
jules		All shapes and sizes, Vince.
vincent		Stop fuckin' talkin' like that!
jules		If you find my answers frightening, Vincent, you should cease askin' scary questions.
vincent		I gotta take a shit. To be continued.
pumpkin		Everybody be cool, this is a robbery!
honey bunny		Any of you fuckin' pricks move and I'll execute every one of you motherfuckers!  Got that?!
pumpkin		Customers stay seated, waitresses on the floor.
honey bunny		Now mean fuckin' now! Do it or die, do it or fucking die!
pumpkin		You Mexicans in the kitchen, get out here!  Asta luego!
pumpkin		On the floor or I'll cook you ass, comprende?
manager		I'm the manager here, there's no problem, no problem at all
pumpkin		You're gonna give me a problem?
pumpkin		What? You said you're gonna give me a problem?
manager		No, I'm not. I'm not gonna give you any problem!
pumpkin		I don't know, Honey Bunny. He looks like the hero type to me!
honey bunny		Don't take any chances. Execute him!
manager		Please don't! I'm not a hero. I'm just a coffee shop manager. Take anything you want.
pumpkin		Tell everyone to cooperate and it'll be all over.
manager		Everybody just be calm and cooperate with them and this will be all over soon!
pumpkin		Well done, now git your fuckin' ass on the ground.
pumpkin		Okay people, I'm going to go 'round and collect your wallets. Don't talk, just toss 'em in the bag. We clear?
pumpkin		In the bag.
pumpkin		What's in that?
jules		My boss' dirty laundry.
pumpkin		You boss makes you do his laundry?
jules		When he wants it clean.
pumpkin		Sounds like a shit job.
jules		Funny, I've been thinkin' the same thing.
pumpkin		Open it up.
jules		'Fraid I can't do that.
pumpkin		I didn't hear you.
jules		Yes, you did.
honey bunny		What's goin' on?
pumpkin		Looks like we got a vigilante in our midst.
honey bunny		Shoot 'em in the face!
jules		I don't mean to shatter your ego, but this ain't the first time I've had gun pointed at me.
pumpkin		You don't open up that case, it's gonna be the last.
manager		 Quit causing problems, you'll get us all killed! Give 'em what you got and get 'em out of here.
jules		Keep your fuckin' mouth closed, fat man, this ain't any of your goddamn business!
pumpkin		I'm countin' to three, and if your hand ain't off that case, I'm gonna unload right in your fuckin' face. Clear? One...
pumpkin		...two... three.
jules		You win.
jules		It's all yours, Ringo.
pumpkin		Open it.
honey bunny		What is it? What is it?
pumpkin		 Is that what I think it is?
pumpkin		It's beautiful.
honey bunny		Goddammit, what is it?
honey bunny		Let him go! Let him go! I'll blow your fuckin' head off! I'll kill ya! I'll kill ya! You're gonna die, you're gonna fuckin' die bad!
jules		 Tell that bitch to be cool! Say, bitch be cool! Say, bitch be cool!
pumpkin		Chill out, honey!
honey bunny		Let him go!
jules		 Tell her it's gonna be okay.
pumpkin		I'm gonna be okay.
jules		Promise her.
pumpkin		I promise.
jules		Tell her to chill.
pumpkin		Just chill out.
jules		What's her name?
pumpkin		Yolanda.
jules		 So, we cool Yolanda? We ain't gonna do anything stupid, are we?
yolanda		 Don't you hurt him.
jules		Nobody's gonna hurt anybody. We're gonna be like three Fonzies. And what' Fonzie like?
jules		C'mon Yolanda, what's Fonzie like?
yolanda		 He's cool?
jules		Correct-amundo! And that's what we're gonna be, we're gonna be cool.  Now Ringo, I'm gonna count to three and I want you to let go your gun and lay your palms flat on the table. But when you do it, do it cool. Ready?
jules		One... two... three.
yolanda		Okay, now let him go!
jules		Yolanda, I thought you were gonna be cool.  When you yell at me, it makes me nervous.  When I get nervous, I get scared. And when motherfuckers get scared, that's when motherfuckers get accidentally shot.
yolanda		 Just know: you hurt him, you die.
jules		That seems to be the situation. Now I don't want that and you don't want that and Ringo here don't want that. So let's see what we can do.  Now this is the situation. Normally both of your asses would be dead as fuckin' fried chicken. But you happened to pull this shit while I'm in a transitional period. I don't wanna kill ya, I want to help ya. But I'm afraid I can't give you the case. It don't belong to me. Besides, I went through too much shit this morning on account of this case to just hand it over to your ass.
jules		It's cool, Vincent! It's cool! Don't do a goddamn thing. Yolanda, it's cool baby, nothin's changed. We're still just talkin'.  Tell her we're still cool.
pumpkin		It's cool, Honey Bunny, we're still cool.
vincent		 What the hell's goin' on, Jules?
jules		Nothin' I can't handle. I want you to just hang back and don't do shit unless it's absolutely necessary.
vincent		Check.
jules		Yolanda, how we doin, baby?
yolanda		I gotta go pee! I want to go home.
jules		Just hang in there, baby, you're doing' great, Ringo's proud of you and so am I.  It's almost over.  Now I want you to go in that bag and find my wallet.
pumpkin		Which one is it?
jules		It's the one that says Bad Motherfucker on it.
jules		That's my bad motherfucker. Now open it up and take out the cash. How much is there?
pumpkin		About fifteen hundred dollars.
jules		Put it in your pocket, it's yours. Now with the rest of them wallets and the register, that makes this a pretty successful little score.
vincent		Jules, if you give this nimrod fifteen hundred buck, I'm gonna shoot 'em on general principle.
jules		You ain't gonna do a goddamn thing, now hang back and shut the fuck up. Besides, I ain't givin' it to him. I'm buyin' somethin' for my money. Wanna know what I'm buyin' Ringo?
pumpkin		What?
jules		Your life. I'm givin' you that money so I don't hafta kill your ass. You read the Bible?
pumpkin		Not regularly.
jules		There's a passage I got memorized. Ezekiel 25:17. "The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men.  Blessed is he who, in the name of charity and good will, shepherds the weak through the valley of the darkness. For he is truly his brother's keeper and the finder of lost children. And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers. And you will know I am the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you." I been sayin' that shit for years.  And if you ever heard it, it meant your ass. I never really questioned what it meant. I thought it was just a coldblooded thing to say to a motherfucker 'fore you popped a cap in his ass. But I saw some shit this mornin' made me think twice. Now I'm thinkin', it could mean you're the evil man. And I'm the righteous man.  And Mr. .45 here, he's the shepherd protecting my righteous ass in the valley of darkness. Or is could by you're the righteous man and I'm the shepherd and it's the world that's evil and selfish.  I'd like that. But that shit ain't the truth. The truth is you're the weak. And I'm the tyranny of evil men. But I'm tryin'. I'm tryin' real hard to be a shepherd.
jules		 It's cold.
vincent		I think we oughta leave now.
jules		That's probably a good idea.
****Dialogues from script :Punch-Drunk_Love.txt****

barry		...yes I'm still on hold...
operator		And what was this?
barry		I'm looking at your advertisement for the airline promotion and giveaway?
operator		This is "Fly With Us?"
barry		It's hard to understand because it says in addition to but I can't exactly understand in addition to what because there's actually nothing to add it too...
operator		I think that's a type-o then, that would be a mistake.
barry		So, just to clarify, I'm sorry: Ten purchases of any of your Healthy Choice products equals five hundred miles and then with the coupon the same purchases would value one thousand miles --
operator		That's it.
barry		Do you realize that the monetary value of this promotion and the prize is potentially worth more than the purchases?
operator		I don't know...I mean: I don't know.
barry		Can I call you back if I have any further questions...? Can I get your extension?
operator		It's extension 215 if you want to try me back.
barry		Ok. Thank you.
barry		....I'm not exactly sure what that means...
voice		If they break or something. What is it, plastic?
barry		It's a plastic, yeah.
voice		Right. Alright, lemme call you first thing tomorrow, I'm gonna run the numbers, see what's what and I'll give you a call back --
barry		Did you have my home phone number?
voice		For what?
barry		If you wanted to call me back I could...
voice		I'm fine, I have your work number.
barry		Ok...because of the time difference if you needed to call me early?
voice		It's fine. I can just get you at your office.
barry		Ok.
voice		Ok, bye, bye.
barry		Bye.
lena		Hi. Do you work at the mechanic?
barry		No.
lena		They're not open yet?
barry		They don't get opened until eight.
lena		Is it ok if I leave my car you think?
barry		I don't know.
lena		I thought they opened at seven.  If I left my car would it be ok?
barry		I don't know.
lena		Do you know them.
barry		Not very well.
lena		Can I ask you, can I trust to leave my keys with you and give them to you so that when they get here you could give them to them? BARRY Ok.
lena		You think it's ok where I left it, right there?
barry		I think that'll be fine.
lena		There's a piano in the street.
barry		Yeah.
lena		Ok. Maybe I'll see you later. Thank you for your help.
barry		Thank you.
lena		Maybe I'll see you later, when I pick up my car?
barry		Ok.
lance		Hey, good morning, Barry.
barry		Hey...Lance....can I.....
lance		You ok?
barry		Yes I'm fine.
lance		Why you wearin' a suit?
barry		Um....I bought one. I thought maybe it would be nice to get dressed for work, can I show you something?
lance		Yeah.....you got here early huh?
barry		....yes.....
lance		What is this?
barry		I don't know. I think it's a piano....a small piano.
lance		That's not a piano.....I have a piano at home.....where'd you get it?
barry		Well.....it was dropped on the street.....
barry		...it just....I don't know....I don't know.
customer		You do guaranteed sale? etc.
barry		We back our plungers 100% and we do ask for a 30 to 60 day display on the floor.....
rico		Barry, your sister's on line one.
barry		Yes.....we do ask for....30 to 60 days....
customer		I think you have a call?
rico		Barry, your sister is on line one.
barry		I'm just gonna grab this call real quick?
barry		 .....This is Barry.
rhonda		Hey it's me, it's Rhonda. Are you coming to the party tonight?
barry		Hi, Rhonda, yes I am.
rhonda		Bye.
barry		Ok. Yes I'll see you tonight.
barry		Sorry about that: One thing I wanted to point out, Dave, is that we've just received a large order from the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas where we're going to be supplying their hotel rooms with the dice and money plunger, so these babies are really moving well right now...
rico		 Barry, your sister's on line two. Barry, your sister's on line two.
barry		With the Aqua Blast Whales and Speed Boats we're gonna ask for a display at eye level for the little kids.....
rico		Barry --
barry		-- excuse me.
barry		This is Barry.
karen		Hey it's me, what are you doing?
barry		Hello, Karen. I'm just working.
karen		Yeah but what are you doing?
barry		I'm just working....I have some customers here.....
karen		So you can't talk to me?
barry		I have a few people here, I can't really chat right now.
karen		"chat?" Did you just say "chat?"
barry		Well, I can't talk though --
karen		You just fucking said "chat," that is so -- what are you now? "chat." I'm just calling to make sure you show up at this party tonight.
barry		Yes, I'll be there.
karen		Fine. You get back to chatting with your precious customers.
barry		Ok, bye-bye.
barry		Sorry about that.
customer		I didn't know you had a sister?
barry		.....Well yes I do....  But one more thing I wanted to tell you guys about the new plungers is that we're making the handles now in a non-breakable material called.....
barry		Ok...this is one of the old ones, I think. Lance do we have any new plungers around?
barry		That was a little embarrassing and that was one of the old handles so let me get a new one to show you --
rico		 Barry, your sister is on line one.
customer		How many sisters do you have?
barry		....I have seven.
barry		They're calling because we're having a party tonight for my sister and the they're just calling....can you hang on for just two more minutes....?
barry		This is Barry.
kathleen		What are you doing?
barry		Hi, Kathleen, I'm just working.
kathleen		Are you going to the party tonight?
barry		Yes I am.
kathleen		What are you doing?
barry		Nothing.
kathleen		Right now, you're doing nothing?
barry		I'm just talking on the phone to you and standing.
kathleen		What time are you gonna be there?
barry		Seven o'clock.
kathleen		You can't be late.
barry		I won't.
kathleen		I'm serious.
barry		I know.
kathleen		Seriously.
barry		Ok.
kathleen		You can't be late though.
barry		I know.
kathleen		You can't just not show up like you do, you have to go.
barry		I know.
kathleen		Seriously.
barry		I know.
kathleen		You can't just stay in your house.
barry		I know.
kathleen		Yeah but I'm serious.
barry		Ok.
kathleen		I'll see you there.
barry		I'll see you there.
kathleen		Don't puss out.
barry		I won't.
worker		Telephone Barry on line one.
barry		What's wrong with her car?
mechanic		Wha?
barry		Is that car gonna be ok?
mechanic		It's fine.
ernesto		Barry, your sister's here.
elizabeth		Hey, how are you? BARRY I'm fine, hi, how are you?
elizabeth		I'm just stopping by to say hello.
barry		Hello.
elizabeth		So you're coming tonight, right?
barry		Yes, indeed, yes I am.
elizabeth		There's this girl, this friend of mine from work that I think is really cute and really cool and I want you to meet her so I was thinking about bringing her to the party tonight.
barry		Oh yeah no I don't want to do that.
elizabeth		Why?
barry		Well I don't want to do something like that.
elizabeth		She's my friend and you should meet her. You'd like her.
barry		Yeah, but please don't do that.
elizabeth		I'm not really asking you, I'm telling you.
barry		Yeah but please don't do that: everyone would be looking at me.
elizabeth		It's a free country, we can look at you if we want to.
barry		Yes but I get tense and I feel like I can't be myself if that happens.
elizabeth		That's your fault not mine.
barry		I don't think I'm going to the party.
elizabeth		So it's ok if I bring her.
barry		Please don't.
elizabeth		She's really cute and she's really nice.
barry		...please, I just don't want it....
elizabeth		....wait a minute: why is this about you now? Why is it always about you?
barry		Yeah, no, it's not, it's just --
elizabeth		I'm trying to be your friend.
barry		I know.
elizabeth		I'm trying to get you a girlfriend.
barry		Well, yeah, thank you, but --
elizabeth		-- but since you're not going I guess none of this matters and I'll bring her anyway.
elizabeth		All I'm trying to do is be your friend.
manager		Hello.
barry		Hello, sir. My name is Barry Egan and I'd like to ask if you have any more Healthy Choice pudding in the back?
susan		There he is! Do you remember when we used to call you gay and you'd get all mad?
kathleen		-- we were calling you gay and you got so mad that you threw a hammer through the sliding glass door -- do you remember?
barry		I don't really remember that.
kathleen		Yes you do. We were calling you Gay Boy and you got so mad....
barry		Yes, yes, right.
susan		We're trying to remember why you had the hammer in the first place?
barry		...um.....
kathleen		The hammer that you threw....why did you have it?
susan		You don't remember -- you had the hammer and you threw it -- ?
barry		I remember, yes.....
susan		Why did you have it?
rhonda		He was building a ramp for the dog.
kathleen		He was making a ramp for the dog! That's right!
susan		That's right....ramp for the dog..... And you just threw the hammer.
barry		 Happy Birthday, Rhonda.
rhonda		Thank you. Thank you so much, Barry.
elizabeth		Hey....I was just telling everyone about how I was gonna bring this girl for you but you wouldn't let me do it.
barry		Hello everyone.
karen		Did you think that we'd all be looking at you?
barry		No, no, no.
karen		Well it's just not true. We wouldn't be looking at you -- why are you wearing this suit? Did you say hello to your brother in law's?
karen		Say hello to them, that's right, good, good. Ok. Come on, we're gonna eat now.....let's go.....
walter		How you doin' Barry?
barry		Hi Walter.
walter		How's business?
barry		Business is very food, thanks. ELIZABETH What's very food?
barry		What?
elizabeth		You just said very food.
barry		Did I say that?
walter		Yeah.
barry		That was weird. I meant good.
walter		Maybe you said that because you're hungry.....
elizabeth		You're lucky. She couldn't come anyway --
barry		Well I'm glad you didn't, thank you.
elizabeth		She couldn't come I said. Are you nervous?
barry		No.
elizabeth		You look nervous.
barry		I'm not, I'm very happy.
rhonda		Come on homo-boy, we're eating now.
group		WHAT THE FUCK IS YOUR PROBLEM. GODDAMNIT BARRY. YOU FUCKIN' MANIAC. ETC. ETC.
walter		What's up?
barry		Well I'm sorry. Before...
walter		Mhm.
barry		And I'm sorry that I did that.
walter		It's alright.
barry		I wanted to ask you because you're a doctor, right?
walter		Yeah.
barry		I don't like the way I am sometimes.  Can you help me? WALTER Barry, I'm a dentist, what kind of help do you think I can give you?
barry		I know that. Maybe you know other doctors?
walter		Like a psychiatrist?
barry		I don't have anyone to talk to things about and I understand it's confidential with a doctor - I'm embarrassed about that and I don't want my sisters to know?
walter		You want a number for a psychiatrist, I can get you one, that's not a problem. but what exactly is wrong?
barry		I don't know if there's anything wrong with me because I don't know how other people are.....Sometimes I cry a lot.....for no reason.
barry		Please don't tell my sisters.
barry		Hello, how are you?
barry		Yes it is.
barry		Can I ask how much is this?
barry		......and this is confidential?
barry		It's....confidential, the call, my information is private.
barry		...3407 2627 3444 8095 expiration
barry		.....1274 Moorpark. Sherman Oaks,
barry		Barry Egan.
barry		What's that for?
barry		-- and this is confidential?
barry		337-09-9876. But I don't want anyone to know my name.
barry		Can you say that my name is Jack?
barry		I just don't want anyone to know it's me.
barry		No I just....I don't want to, I just want to be connected to talk to a girl.
barry		I thought I was just gonna be connected to talk to a girl - that's fine, ok, I'm sorry, it's,
barry		Hello, this is Back.
sexy voice		Hi, is this Jack?
barry		Yes.
sexy voice		This is Georgia.
barry		Hi. This is Jack.
sexy voice		So what are you doing tonight, Jack?
barry		Nothing.
sexy voice		Nothing, huh, do you know what I'm doing?
barry		No.
sexy voice		I'm just laying on my bed.
barry		Where are you?
sexy voice		I'm in my bedroom.
barry		No, I mean, what city, what state are you in?
sexy voice		Are you watching a porno movie?
barry		No.
sexy voice		Do you like porno movies?
barry		Sure.
sexy voice		Yeah....? So...Jack...are you stroking that big fat fucking cock of yours?
barry		....no....
sexy voice		Yeah? So what are you doing, then?
barry		...just talking to you....
sexy voice		Are your pants off?
barry		No.
sexy voice		I'm wearing a t-shirt and panties.
barry		Really?
sexy voice		Yeah. And looking at myself in the mirror. Do you wanna know what I look like?
barry		It doesn't matter.
sexy voice		What do you mean it doesn't matter?
barry		Well. I have no way of knowing. So it doesn't matter.
sexy voice		I don't lie, Jack. I'm about 5'8, blonde 34,28,34. Pretty thin, I work out. My pussy's shaved. My friends say I'm pretty cute, so....
barry		Really?
sexy voice		What do you mean, "really?" Yeah. Really. What about you?
barry		It doesn't matter.
sexy voice		Yeah....you're married aren't you, Jack?
barry		No.
sexy voice		You have a girlfriend?
barry		...yes...
sexy voice		Where is she?
barry		She's...not here...she went out. She went out of town, she travels a lot.
sexy voice		I'm horny, Jack, what about you?
barry		...yeah.....
sexy voice		Does Jack like to Jack Off?
barry		Sometimes when I'm lonely.
sexy voice		...yeah....well you have me now.
barry		You sound very cute, very nice.
sexy voice		Thank you. What do you do, Barry?
barry		I have my own business....I work. I work hard at doing my business.
sexy voice		Yeah....do you do well, do you make alotta money?
barry		I do pretty good, I think. I wish I was making more, doing a little bit better. I can,t get over a certain hump. I will...I will crack something soon I think and really do better...I'd like to diversify...but I'm doing great, I think, as a start.
sexy voice		So.....are you stroking it, yet, honey?
barry		No.
sexy voice		Well why don't you take your pants off and stroke it for me?
barry		Ok. SEXY VOICE Yeah...that's it...God I Am So Horny...I wish I was there to help you.....I wish I was there for you, Barry.
barry		Whassis?
barry		Hello?
sexy voice		Hey. What are you doing? How are you?
barry		I'm fine. Who is this?
sexy voice		Georgia.
barry		Hi....what....what's up....?
sexy voice		It's ok that I'm calling, right, I mean? It's ok.
barry		Yeah. No. It's ok. What's goin' on?
sexy voice		I just wanted to call and talk to you, thank you for last night, try and get you before you went to work and say, "hey."
barry		I'm going to work.
sexy voice		Uhhh...I am sooo tired...I stayed up too late last night, what about you, when did you go to sleep?
barry		Not very late.
sexy voice		You're going to work now?
barry		Yes.
sexy voice		Can I ask you a question?
barry		Uh-huh.
sexy voice		Remember last night I was talking to you and I was telling you about my apartment, my rent -- ?  Do you remember?
barry		Yes.
sexy voice		This is really weird and really embarrassing for me but....uh....  I was wondering if you could help me out with a little bit of money.
barry		Me?
sexy voice		Yeah.
barry		I can't really. Yeah, no. I mean. I can't afford it.
sexy voice		You don't even know how much it is.
barry		I know but I....how much is it?
sexy voice		Like seven-fifty. Seven hundred fifty?
barry		Yes, no, yes. I can't. I can't afford that. I'm sorry. Sorry.
sexy voice		Really? Please?
barry		You have trouble, financial trouble?
sexy voice		Yeah. It's so hard these days and I really need it.
barry		Yes I can't....I don't make enough money to be able to do that.
sexy voice		I thought you had your own business. You said you were gonna diversify and all that stuff....
sexy voice		So you think you can?
barry		No. I'm sorry.
sexy voice		Should I call back and talk to your girlfriend?
barry		....what....?
sexy voice		I was wondering if it's better to ask your girlfriend for the money? It could be really easy. I mean, I have all your information, credit card information and billing stuff --
lance		Good morning, Barry....
barry		Hi, Lance.
lance		What's with all this pudding, what is this?
barry		That's part of a very interesting airline promotion giveaway that's really tremendous. I'm going to start a collection of pudding and coupons that can be redeemed for frequent flyer miles through Healthy Choice and American Airlines --
lance		You're goin' on a trip?
barry		No.........but airline miles are just like a currency these days.
lance		You should go on a trip.
barry		No thanks.
lance		So what should I do with the pudding?
barry		Let's just leave it there for now.
barry		This is not supposed to be here. Seriously. Carlos, Carlos, this is really not supposed to be here. I don't mean to be a dick; but that's gonna hurt someone. It already did hurt someone: It hurt me, so please let's move that.
elizabeth		 He's wearing a suit again, I don't know why he's wearing a suit, he doesn't usually dress like that --
lena		It's fine.
elizabeth		Hey, what are you doing? Why are you wearing a suit again?
barry		I don't know.
lena		Hi.
barry		Hi.
lena		Do you remember me, I left my car, yesterday.
barry		Yes I do.
elizabeth		This is Lena, she's a good friend of mine from work. We were in the neighborhood and she had to pick up her car and we're getting breakfast before we go in, so did you want to go? We're gonna go and eat, let's go.
barry		Yeah I can't.
elizabeth		Why?
barry		I have work, I can't leave.
elizabeth		Seriously, though: We're going to eat, I said.
barry		I'm sorry.
lena		It's ok. That's alright.
elizabeth		Are you learning how to play the piano? What is that?
barry		It's not a piano. LANCE! LANCE! MAKE SURE THAT YOU CALL THAT GUY IN TOLEDO.
barry		...I'll tell you later.
elizabeth		You don't wanna come to eat with us?
worker voice		TELEPHONE BARRY ON LINE TWO!
elizabeth		What's all this pudding?
barry		I don't know. Can you hang on a second?
barry		Hello?
sexy voice		We got disconnected before....
barry		No. No. We got disconnect -- why?.....you're calling me at work....how did you get this number -- ?
sexy voice		See the thing is I could make it really easy on you -- I already have your credit card number, your information, address and stuff. This is so awkward asking like this, I'm sorry --
barry		This makes me very uncomfortable.
sexy voice		I need help.
sexy voice		Should I just ask your girlfriend?  Maybe I should call back and talk to your girlfriend?
barry		I don't have a girlfriend --
sexy voice		-- you said you did.
barry		I know I did. But I don't.
sexy voice		You lied to me?
barry		I didn't lie.
sexy voice		Why did you tell me you did, then?
barry		This is....illegal....I'll call the police.
sexy voice		No you won't.
lena		I'll go pay for my car.
elizabeth		Are you sure?
lena		Yeah.
elizabeth		He's being weird, I'm sorry. I have no idea why he's being weird and dressed in a suit --
lena		It's not bad, it's ok.
elizabeth		-- he's so strange I don't know if you really even would want to go out with him, someone like him, I said I'd try, but it's just --
lena		It's ok, it's alright. I'll come right back, I'll just go pay for my car.
elizabeth		Sorry.
sexy voice		Come on, I thought we had fun, rich boy --
barry		This is not cool.
sexy voice		It was cool last night.
barry		I have to go.
sexy voice		Are you telling me no?
barry		No I'm sorry, now I have to get off the phone....
sexy voice		....this is your mistake....
elizabeth		Hey, hey, you should ask her out -- what do you think, she's cute, right?
barry		 I'm gonna call you back.
sexy voice		 ...MOTHERFUCKER, NO....
barry		She is. I think, why did you come here like this?
elizabeth		It's not cool?
barry		It's fine, but --
elizabeth		-- do you think you'll ask her out?
barry		I feel really on the spot now.
elizabeth		Are you gonna do it?
barry		I don't do that. I don't - things like that.
elizabeth		You don't do anything, why are you being scared?
barry		I'm not being scared, you're just going to rag me if I do this --
elizabeth		I'm not gonna rag you. Why would I do this just to rag you?
barry		I don't know.
elizabeth		I'll leave then, I'll go to get something from my car, go away so you don't feel pressure. Can I ask you a serious question:
barry		What?
elizabeth		Did you ask Walter to get you a shrink?  Barry, did you ask Walter to get you a shrink? What's wrong with you? Are you ok?
barry		I didn't ask him that. He's lying.
elizabeth		You're being weird again, see. Come on. Please don't be weird.
elizabeth		I gotta grab something from my car....
lena		We should be going --
elizabeth		 Yeah, no, I have to get something from my car, I said.
lance		Which guy in Toledo are you talking about?
barry		I'll tell you...the guy...with...just talk to me later about it, ok?
lance		You talkin' to me about Ramada Inn?
barry		I have to talk to you in a second about that, Lance, ok?
lena		I'm sorry I couldn't come to your sister's birthday party last night, Elizabeth had invited me and I couldn't make it --
barry		It's fine. It was fun, though.
lena		It must be weird for you to have so many sisters?
barry		No. Not at all. It's nice.
barry		 One second, sorry.
barry		Hello?
sexy voice		Hang up again and see the trouble it's gonna make.
lena		Business is good, you're busy?
barry		Yeah, not really.
lena		I saw a picture of you.
barry		Yes. LENA Elizabeth has a picture of you guys -- your sisters and you, it's a lot of family, it must be nice.
barry		Do you have brothers or sisters?
lena		No. I'm the exact opposite --
barry		That must be nice. That must be really, really, really great.
lena		It's terrible, no.
lena		What do you do with all this pudding?
barry		That's not mine it's one of the guys that works here. That pudding's not mine.
lena		Oh My God.
barry		It's ok. That's ok. How long have you worked with Elizabeth?
lena		Six months, maybe five, five or six months...do you wanna check that?
barry		 Are you guys hurt?
lena		I do, but I do field consultations mainly too which is cool because I get to travel. I travel. A lot of the time. I'm going to Hawaii on Friday.
barry		That's great -- Hawaii. I was thinking about going there.
lena		Really?
barry		I was, yeah, I was thinking about going there for business --
lena		-- well, if you're gonna go --
barry		-- I'm probably not gonna go though.
lena		-- oh that's too bad, it's so great over there and if you were there we could say hello to each other or something --
barry		-- yeah that would be great, if I was gonna go but I'm not exactly sure, I have so much goin on here -- A lot depends on this thing I might do here and if that happens I can't go and if it doesn't happen then I probably will, but I doubt it.
elizabeth		I can't find that thing in my car, I can't find it so I'll just get it and give it to you later. So?
lena		 You ready?
elizabeth		Are you coming to eat with us?
barry		Yeah I can't.
elizabeth		 OH MY GOD. Look at that.
lena		 It was great to meet you again. To see you again, thanks for helping me yesterday --
barry		Ok.
elizabeth		 What's all this pudding?
barry		It's not mine.
elizabeth		Why's it here?
barry		I have no idea.
lena		 Are you ready?
elizabeth		 Will you call me later to talk about asking Walter for the shrink? And we can talk about - he said you have this crying problem or something?
lena		Bye, Barry.
barry		Goodbye.
elizabeth		Call me later.
elizabeth		So I'll meet you at the restaraunt?
lena		Ok.
lena		I'm going to go and eat tomorrow night do you want to go with me?
barry		Sure.
lena		Do you want to pick me up?
barry		Sure.
lena		Can I write down my address and phone number for you?
barry		Sure.
barry		This is funny.
lena		Yeah.
barry		I didn't ask anyone for a shrink, that was someone else. Also: This pudding is not mine. Also: I'm wearing a suit because I had a very important business meeting this morning and I don't have a crying problem.
lena		Ok.
barry		Alright?
lena		....Hi.....
barry		....Hi.....
barry		Hello?
sexy voice		You've just made a war that you cannot afford.
david		I'll do it.
jim		I'll do it too.
david		But it's gotta wait until my knee is better. I can't risk it.
latisha		You have to do it now.
jim		If we drive there it's a problem.
latisha		Dean will loan you one of his cars.
jim		Which one?
latisha		You have to talk to him --
david		How do you know he's rich?
latisha		Because I know, I just know. I mean, I talked to him, I know.
nate		Where are you guys going?
david		California. Los Angeles.
nate		When are you leaving?
david		Right now.
latisha		Let's go talk to Dean.
dean		Hey guys.
latisha		So they'll go.
dean		I'm only paying two of you guys.
david		That's cool.
dean		When can you leave?
david		As soon as you want.
dean		I want you to go right away, I think that's best. I also need you to check out a car for me down there that this guy is selling.
dean		You wanna fuck around, asshole? You wanna get tough, wanna see me kick some motherfuck around here?
regular joe		Take it easy, man, relax. Don't -- DEAN I'll relax your fucking head -- this is my personal space, man, this is my personal fucking space, you don't violate that, you don't do that.
regular joe		I've got a glass in my hand why don't you chill out?
dean		You've got a glass?
dean		YEAH. YOU'VE GOT A GLASS, NOW I'VE GOT A GLASS. I'VE GOT A GLASS TOO MOTHERFUCK.
woman		I WILL CRUSH YOU. I WILL FUCKING CRUSH YOU AND YOUR FRIENDS.
dean		Take it easy, take it easy you guys in here, I need to talk to you later, Tommy -- I wanna know if you wanna book the boys --
man		I'll talk to you later.
woman		YOU WON'T FUCKIN' TALK TO HIM LATER, I WILL CRUSH YOU. I WILL CRUSH YOU, ASSHOLE.
cut to:		INT. DEAN'S OFFICE/UPSTAIRS/BACKROOM - MOMENTS LATER
dean		Your expenses are your own.
david		I thought Latisha said you would --
dean		-- she didn't know what she was talking about --
david		It's....whatever....that's not cool.
dean		David, Don't. Just. Seriously. It doesn't make sense if you think about it in a fair deal like sense. Ok? It's business. Seriously. One hundred dollars for two days work is a lot more than your family is making sitting around your house. I'm serious now. Ok. Please. Now. Just stop.
dean		...keys for the track. You have to gas it up and save the receipts on that. His address. We have a business address too if you need that -- but hit him at his house first, see what this little bad boy is all about and shake him up -- give him a little doe-see-doe --
latisha		Uch. Shut up, Dean.
dean		What's the problem?
latisha		You don't need to talk all macho, "shake him out, little bad boy." Whatever -- you're not an action hero, tough guy, you're not a gangster --
dean		Flinchy. That's what I thought. Shut up.  Call me when you see this guy -- check him out see what's what. She asked him for seven fifty when she was on the phone with him, so -- just call me when you get there.
dean		This is this place called Ace Vintage, you gotta find it, I don't know exactly where this is and I don't understand these maps so just go there and check it out. It's a '61 AC Cobra that this old guy says is fine, but I need to figure out why he's only asking 23 for it. So take a look, the whole thing, call me about that, if it seems alright then I'll head down there and check it out.
david		Ok.
dean		That's it.
david		Can we maybe ask for more money on this?
latisha		Why?
david		...because it's California? I mean it's like a nine or ten hour drive. It's not like going to Salt Lake and getting the Mormon's, it's different...
lena		Who is it?
barry		It's Barry.
lena		Hi.
lena		So I want to tell you something, I gotta tell you: I saw a picture of you guys, your sisters and you and I saw your picture and I really wanted to meet you.  I came to drop my car off there on purpose, to try and meet you.
barry		...really? That's nice...are you lying?
lena		...I thought I should tell you. I didn't want to get too far along on going out and be hiding something --
barry		That's very nice. Thank you. Thank you for saying that.  You're friends with my sister?
lena		Yeah.
barry		How long have you known her?
lena		About six months.
barry		You like her?
lena		Yeah. Yeah we get along well.  You didn't get along with her very well?
barry		Did you really come to meet me on purpose or are you lying about that?
lena		No, no. I did.
barry		That's nice. It's nice.  I've been looking around a lot lately at promotional giveaways, cross promotional work by some companies. Do you remember all that pudding?
lena		Yeah.
barry		So that pudding was bought, I bought that pudding because of a pretty interesting promotion that's sponsored by Healthy Choice and American Airlines. It's designed to encourage airline travel and obviously designed to encourage buying Healthy Choice products. They make frozen meals, deli meats, pasta sauce, breads, soups and ice creams, this sort of thing.....
lena		Yeah?
barry		....I'm sorry....I lost my thoughts, what I was saying....
lena		You were talking about the promotion --
barry		-- the promotion says: buy any 10 Healthy Choice products and get 500 miles of airline travel or 1,000 for purchases made with a special coupon. So in the supermarket, you notice their products, first you notice they have a Teriyaki Chicken Dinner at $1.79 - that's a pretty good deal....but then I noticed they had soup at 89 cents a can.....and you start to do the math and you start to notice that it's a really amazing deal because I stumbled across the pudding at 25 cents a cup. Now the crucial thing is the bar codes on the label. That's those little bar codes, you know? The universal product codes?
lena		Yeah.
barry		That's what's used to redeem the mileage, so in noticing the pudding, each cup had an individual bar code -- in other words: Two dollars and fifty cents for ten cups of pudding is 500 miles. Add in the coupon: it's one thousand. You see?
lena		Yeah.
barry		You see?
lena		Yeah, no, I see --
barry		You see if you spent $3,000 dollars on pudding you could earn over one million frequent flyer miles.
lena		That's insane. That is really, really crazy. That's just crazy if you spend three thousand dollars on pudding.
barry		....yeah....
lena		So that was your pudding?
barry		....No....
lena		I'm sorry. I thought you said --
barry		No I didn't say that.
lena		I thought you said you bought all that pudding --
barry		My friend Carlos is doing it who works with me. It's his. It's his pudding, he's doing it. It's not mine. He's crazy. I told him not to do it. He's the one who's insane. He only spent about one hundred dollars so far though --
lena		Your sister was telling me a pretty funny story about you, when you guys were kids and you were building a ramp for your dog and you threw a hammer through a window? Is that right? You threw a hammer through a sliding glass door?
barry		I don't remember that, she might be lying. I have to go the bathroom.
manager		Hello.
manager		Sir, can I talk to you?
barry		Why?
manager		Just have you for one second, please.
manager		Sir, the bathroom was just torn apart.
barry		Yeah.
manager		Did you do it?
barry		No.
manager		You didn't just smash up the bathroom?
barry		No.
manager		Well who did?
barry		I don't know.
manager		You're hand is bleeding.
barry		I cut myself.
manager		How?
barry		On my knife.
manager		Sir, a young man saw you coming out of the bathroom.
barry		I didn't do that.
barry		Why? ...what?
manager		Your hand is bleeding.
barry		I know.
manager		I'm gonna have to ask you to leave.
barry		Why?
manager		Sir, I have no way of proving that you demolished the bathroom --
barry		I didn't do it.
manager		Alright, well you're gonna have to leave. You're gonna have to go.
barry		Yeah, but I didn't do anything.
manager		I'm gonna call the police then, sir.
barry		Please don't do this to me.
manager		The police are on their way.
barry		Sorry.
barry		Can I pay you here? Can I pay you for our drinks and salad?
manager		That's fine.
barry		Keep the change, please.
barry		We should go I think, I don't like it here.
lena		Ok.
lena		Is everything ok?
barry		Yes.
lena		What happened?
barry		Nothing.
lena		What did he want?
barry		Nothing.
barry		I have a better idea of where we can go.
lena		Ok.
barry		There's a better place for us to eat.
lena		Did something happen; are you alright?
barry		Yes I'm fine. Everything is ok. It's fine. Everything is fine.
lena		So....how is your harmonium doing?
lena		Your portable reed organ....the piano.
barry		Well, it's fine. Thank you.
lena		Did you pick it up from the street?
barry		What?
lena		Did you take it from the street in front of your work?
barry		...yes I did...?
lena		Are you learning how to play it?
barry		Yes? I'm trying.
lena		Oh that's great.
lena		So you must travel a lot with all that pudding you bought?
barry		Yes no not really.
barry		Ok....well...I'm gonna go.
lena		...yeah...
barry		It was nice to see you again, to see your face again, to go out with you --
lena		I'll be around and back in town in a few days --
barry		Yeah.
lena		If you come to Hawaii --
barry		Yeah, I don't know, we'll see about that.
lena		You don't think you'll go --
barry		I don't know.
lena		Ok. Well call me when you get back, I mean, I'll call you when I get back. I'll be back for three weeks and then I go away for a month after that. So maybe in that time....
barry		Ok. Have a good trip.
reception woman		Are you Barry?
barry		Yes.
reception woman		It's for you.
barry		This is Barry.
barry		Hi.
barry		Really?
lena		Yeah.
barry		So what do I do then?
barry		That was good.
lena		Yeah.
barry		I'll see you later.
lena		Ok.
barry		I don't freak out very often.
lena		What do you mean?
barry		I don't, no matter what my sisters say, ok?
lena		...I don't know what you mean....
barry		I don't freak out.
lena		Ok.
barry		Have a good trip.
lena		Thank you.
david		Hey.
barry		Hi.
david		I need to talk to you for a second.
barry		What?
david		You gotta give me some money.
david		You made a phone call and you said you'd help a girl out and then you didn't....I'm here to get the money.
barry		Wait a minute --
david		No, no, no, no c'mon man, don't make it a thing --
barry		Please don't do this.
david		It's just you need to give me the money...do you have it right now?
barry		Whoa...whoa...wait, wait -- don't please....
david		How much money do you have in your pockets?
barry		Just take it, take the money in my pockets, take it, it's fine --
barry		It's three hundred and twenty dollars, just take it.
david		What do you have in the house?
barry		Nothing....I mean, really...change, nothing....that's the cash I have....
david		You have an ATM?
barry		Yes.
david		Is this where you live?
barry		Yes.
david		You have another house somewhere or something?
barry		No.
barry		I didn't promise her money. She said that it was confidential, this isn't fair --
barry		-- don't --
david		HEY. You made a fucking sex call and now you're gonna pay. It's not a big thing -- just give us some money and then it's over -- we'll just walk down to the ATM and get your money out --
barry		Alright, alright.
barry		How do you want to do this?
david		Ok. This is what you get when you're a pervert -- you said you'd help someone out and you didn't so we're just getting some money for her and that's that.
barry		You know, please, I just wanna say that I didn't say I would help her out; I was very clear about it....I don't think that this is fair.....wait, wait, wait, ouch, ouch.....
barry		...what the hell?
lance		What's up?
barry		I think I got in trouble. A little bit of trouble....
lance		What happened?
barry		....I made a call.....  ....and, uh....
barry		...ok.....ok......I gotta get some pudding to go somewhere....
worker		Telephone on Line One, Barry.
barry		Hello?
barry		 Ok. Well. I'm gonna go out of town. I'm going to go out of town just for two days...
lance		Where you goin?
barry		I'm going to go to Hawaii but you can't tell my sisters that.
lance		Wow, you're goin' to Hawaii, that's great -- you're goin -- ?
barry		Yeah but you can't tell my sisters that.
lance		Ok.
barry		Alright: And I have to go and buy some more pudding for this trip to Hawaii and as I just said that out loud I'm realizing it sounds a little strange but it's not. So can you come and help me out?
lance		Ok.
barry		I saw the Teriyaki Chicken first and that was $1.79 and then the Soup which made a real deal but then to come across the pudding...it's just tremendous when you think about how most people just don't look...they don't....they're not looking at the fine print, Lance.
barry		 They need to be scanned individually. They each have a bar code, so I need it scanned individually so that each and every cup appears on the receipt...
barry		I'm sorry.
barry		Yes. Sorry.
barry		Each pudding cup has to be scanned individually so that...it's for a giveaway...a product giveaway by this company...
barry		I'm sorry, I know. I know that it's....
barry		I'm sorry, I'm really sorry.
barry		Sorry. I'm sorry, ma'am.
barry		God Damn They're So Beautiful.
barry		You know you can get places in the world with pudding. That's funny.
lance		Yeah.
barry		That's funny.
barry		I guess they're not open today.
barry		That's fine. I think I have enough.
barry		I get really sick of myself sometimes.
barry		No, no, no, no, no. What do you mean? It doesn't state anywhere about six to eight weeks.
operator voice		It takes that much time to process the order and make sure it's valid --
barry		I had this whole thing in my head, I was gonna be able to get this to you today -- I have to leave today --
operator voice		I'm sorry.
barry		How am I supposed to know what to do if you don't say it -- if it's not in your rules and regulations in your fine print how am I supposed to know how to be with this --
operator voice		It takes time to process --
barry		No, no, no, no, nO, NO, NO!
barry		Don't do that. Don't do that. That's not right. Calm down now, please. Please. Ok. Ok. Calm down now please.
barry		Ok: the pudding is gonna take six to eight weeks to process so that isn't gonna work for today, I'll just take a bath on that today. Ok. But here's the thing I gotta tell you:
barry		....now: this pudding?
lance		Yeah.
barry		Let's just figure that out later --  Ok. I gotta go. I'm just gonna go now and I'll call you from there, you're in charge 'till I get back. And don't tell my sisters anything? He exits.
barry		I've never been on a plane before.
barry		What's that sound?
cab driver		Where?
elizabeth		Hey. What are you doing?
barry		Nothing. I'm just at work and I'm wondering, you know your friend Lena?
elizabeth		What about her? You didn't ask her out, you're such a pussy --
barry		....she didn't, I didn't ask her out?
elizabeth		You're so scared.
barry		Do you know where she's staying in Hawaii?
elizabeth		Oh My God, yeah, I know exactly where she is, why?
barry		......she forgot her purse at my work and I wanted to get it back to her.
elizabeth		No she didn't; that's a lie.
barry		I....please don't do this.
elizabeth		What? Tell me why you wanna know --
barry		I just want to know where she's staying.
elizabeth		Tell me why.
barry		There is no reason for you to treat me like you do -- you're killing me, you are killing me with the way that you are towards me --
elizabeth		-- what are you talking about, come on --
barry		-- all I want is the number of where she's staying and that should be god damn good enough, now stop treating me this way, please -- Just Give Me The Number Elizabeth Please Now I think I will kill you if you don't.
hotel operator		Sheraton Wakiki, how may I direct your call?
barry		Lena Leonard's room please.
hotel operator		I'll connect you.
man's voice		Hello?
barry		Hello. Is Lena there?
man's voice		You have the wrong room.
hotel operator		Sheraton Wakiki, how may I direct your call?
barry		I just called, I got connected to the wrong room. I'm looking for Lena Leonard and there shouldn't be a man in the room I'm calling.
lena		Hello?
barry		Lena?
lena		Yeah?
barry		It's Barry.
lena		HI. WHERE ARE YOU? ARE YOU HERE?
barry		Yes.
lena		OH WOW. YEAH. THAT'S GREAT. YOU CAME, YOU CAME. What are you doing?
barry		I'm calling you, I'm standing in my hotel room, I came because I have my business trip --
lena		Well let's do something do you want to do something, can you meet me?
barry		You don't have a boyfriend or anything do you?
lena		No. What do you mean? BARRY I just wanted to know. When was the last time you had a boyfriend?
lena		About six months ago. Why?
barry		I just wanted to make sure.
lena		When was the last time you had a girlfriend?
barry		Where you married?
lena		yeah.
barry		Ok. So you were married for how long?
lena		Do you want to meet me and talk about this stuff?
barry		Ok. Where are you from originally?
lena		You got me out of my hotel room. You came and got me out of my room.
barry		Yeah......yeah.....
lena		It's so nice.
barry		This really looks like Hawaii here.
barry		Do you wanna have sex?
lena		Yeah.
lena		Press together. It feels good.
lena		Oh my god, you are so adorable. I just....god dammit.
barry		What's that? What is that that you're doing?
lena		I just...your face is so adorable and your cheek and your skin, I wanna bite it....I wanna bite your cheek and chew on it....god damn cute....fuck....
barry		I know what you mean, I know what you mean, I get this feeling --
lena		...what...?
barry		IIIIIIIIIII don't want to hurt anything ever, but what I'm talking about is -- have you ever held a little puppy or a little kitten and it's just the cutest, softest, most precious thing in the world and out of the blue you get this feeling in your gut and all you wanna do is squeeze it. Just fuckin squeeze the shit out of it. To take a little puppy and smash its skull...just so precious, so beautiful. Just so god damn wonderful and cute you wanna smack it and kick it and love it. Fuck. I don't know. I don't know. And you, you.....I'm looking at you and I just....your face is so beautiful I just wanna smash it, just smash it with a sledgehammer and squeeze it...you're so pretty.
lena		I know. I know. I know. I just wanna chew your face and scoop out your beautiful, beautiful eyes with an ice cream scooper and eat 'em and chew 'em and suck on 'em. Fuck.
barry		This is funny.
lena		Yeah.
barry		This is nice.
nate		That guy had more money to give up.
nate		Long way to drive just for seven hundred something bucks. Dean doesn't have to know.
barry		 You know you're not supposed to do that. Because I told you. Seriously. Please. Not that day. Ok. LENA Barry?
barry		I was talkin' to you last Thursday about that.
lena		Ok. What should I do about Eric?
lena		Ok.
lena		No.
lena		It's fine.
lena		He did seem a little strange.
lena		I'm sorry. You're right.
lena		Should I call you later?
lena		Ok.
lena		Where do you have to go?
barry		For what?
lena		For work.....
barry		I don't have any business here. I came here for you, I didn't have any business.
barry		How many times have you been on an airplane?
lena		I think maybe over a hundred.
barry		That's right you travel so much.
lena		Yeah.
barry		How much do you travel? You travel all the time?
barry		I forgot about that.
lena		Can I come home with you when we get there?
barry		Yeah.
lena		It's ok to ask that.
barry		I thought that you were anyway.
barry		Are you ok?
lena		I'm fine are you ok?
barry		Yes I'm sorry.
lena		What is this?
barry		Let's go to the hospital.
lena		...people are just crazy in this world, I think....
police		...and he came up on the driver side...
lena		The first man came on the driver side....
police		...right...the blonde one?
lena		They were all blonde.
barry		My name is Barry Egan and I spoke to you....you called me, you remember?
latisha		...no....I don't....I don't remember you. Who's this?
barry		That's not true. That's not true at all. You said that your name was Georgia and you said our conversation was confidential and I trusted you and you kept calling and asking me for money, c'mon now I want to talk to your owner, your supervisor, whoever runs this, you understand. Please connect me now.
latisha		Can you hang on a second?
worker		Dean, line one....
dean		Hello?
latisha		Hey, it's me. This guy from L.A., Barry Egan is calling on the other line and saying all this stuff, he wants to talk to a supervisor or whatever --
dean		What did you say?
latisha		Nothing.
dean		Put him through.
latisha		No, no. This is bad, something might have happened, we should just --
dean		Shut up, just put him on the phone, it doesn't matter, just shut up --
latisha		Ok, sir....I'm gonna put you through to my supervisor.
barry		Fine, thank you.
latisha		Ok. You're connected.
dean		Who is this?
barry		Hello, my name is Barry Egan and I called your service --
dean		Why don't you shut the fuck up?
barry		What?
dean		I said calm down and shut the fuck up. What's your problem?
barry		I haven't even told you what's happened. Your girl that you have that works there for you threatened me and two men just chased me -- extorted money -- DEAN Go fuck yourself that shit doesn't have anything to do with me - this is a legitimate bossiness.
barry		YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF. YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF. YOU GO FUCK YOURSELF. MY LOVE WAS HURT, SHE GOT HURT. I AM IN LOVE WITH HER AND YOU HURT YOU AND YOU ARE GONNA FUCKING GET HURT. YOU DON'T TOUCH HER, I LOVE HER.
dean		CALM DOWN SHUT THE FUCK UP AND CALM DOWN SHUT SHUT SHUT UP SHUT UP --
dean		Now are you threatening me, dick?
barry		You are bad. You are a bad person. you are a bad person and you have no right to take people's confidence in your service --
dean		You better watch your mouth, cunt, you're gonna get hurt.
barry		NO. NO. DON'T YOU SAY THAT.
dean		I'll say whatever I want --
barry		YOU FUCK OFF. YOU FUCK OFF AND DIE I WILL HURT YOU FOR HURTING HER. YOU HURT HER.
dean		You just told me to fuck off. That wasn't good. You're dead.
operator		What city?
barry		Somewhere in Utah.
operator		What's the listing?
barry		D&D Mattress Man.
employee		May I help you?
barry		I'm looking for the Mattress Man.
employee		Who?
barry		Whoever owns this.
employee		In the back.....
barry		I'm a nice and reasonable man. I didn't do anything wrong. Please don't make me hurt you. And I'm telling you: that if you ever hurt me or if you hurt someone that I love.....I will hurt you many, many, many times over.....because it's not right to take people's trust.
dean		You came all the way from Los Angeles to tell me that?
barry		Yes I did.
barry		Can we agree that that is that?
dean		That's that.
barry		Thank you.
dean		NOW GET THE FUCK OUTTA HERE MAN. CAMERA, PUSHES IN VERY SLIGHTLY ON Barry as he exits the doors 
barry		I'm fine....I'm fine...yes I'm fine....
lance		Where you been?
barry		Well I had to go to Utah...but now I'm here and I'll be right back.
barry		Lena I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry that I left you at the hospital..... I called a phone sex line. I called a phone sex line before I met you and then these four blond brothers came after me and you got hurt and I'm sorry -- and I had to leave because I don't want you to get hurt again and now I'm here and I'm back and I have a lot of pudding that I can redeem in six to eight weeks and if you give me that much time I can get enough miles to fly with you wherever you have to go if you have to travel for your job because I don't want to be anywhere without you.....can you please let me redeem the mileage?
lena		You left me at the hospital.
barry		I'm sorry.
lena		You can't do that.
barry		Ok.
barry		If you give me six to eight weeks I can redeem the mileage and then I can with you wherever you have to travel......
lena		So here we go.
****Dialogues from script :Purple_Rain.txt****

prince		 Dearly belov`ed, We are gathered here today To get through this thing called life. Electric word life, It means forever and that's a mighty long time. But I'm here to tell you that there's something else -- The afterworld.
prince		 That's right...a world of never-ending happiness, You can always see the sun -- Day or night.
prince		 So when you call up that shrink in Beverly Hills, You know the one -- Doctor Everything'll Be Alright-- Instead of asking him how much of your mind is left, Ask him how much of your time, `Cause in this life, Things are much harder than in the afterworld, In this life, You're on your own.
prince		 And if de-elevator tries to bring you down, Go crazy, punch a higher floor.
morris		 Oh, Lord ...
morris		We're going to slay him...  EXT.  CLUB -- NIGHT  COMMOTION! The CROWD has become unwieldly -- TRAFFIC is snarled all around.  HORNS are BLARING.   COPS try desperately to ward off the inevitable grid lock.  Vanity runs against the light, moves to the head of the queue to the accompaniment of JEERS and CATCALLS. She doesn't budge an inch, KNOCKS rapidly on the glass door, catching the attention of CHICK, a burly, 6'5", 285 pound bouncer with a white beard and long flowing hair.  An ex-Marine, Chick's function is obvious.  He cracks the door--
chick		What?
vanity		I have an appointment with the manager.
chick		No you don't -- he doesn't see anybody.
jill		What are you retarded or something?! Why don't you look where you're going?
vanity		Sorry ... where's the office?
jill		Do you think you can just come in here and take over?
vanity		I said I'm sorry -- what do you want me to do?  Where's the office?
jill		 No one's in!
vanity		Okay, so you got  me back, fine. Listen, I'm from out of town. I have to see the manager, it's important.  I'm a real good singer and dancer. I know he could use me.
jill		Do you have any experience?
vanity		Yeah...definitely.
jill		Follow me.
jill		Here, fill this out -- I'll have him call you.
vanity		I don't have a phone.  When will he be back?
jill		Well...you can try tomorrow.
vanity		You can count on  it.
jill		Vanity??
backstage		as Morris and The Time pass Prince on their way to the stage--
morris		Why don't you stay awhile, see how it's done.
mc		Ladies and gentlemen -- please welcome The Time.
club		Sudden APPLAUSE and CRIES.  Vanity and Jill turn directly into the path of Prince, descending the Steps of the stage.  Vanity gasps, LOCKS eyes with him.  Jill seems to jump out of her skin -- it's obvious she has a crush on him something  awful--
jill		Hi ya,  Prince -- God I liked that song, it's real fun.
vanity		I really liked your song too...
jill		Hey ...
vanity		Hey  wait!
father		You do what I say, do you hear me?!  You've got to keep this place clean!  You here, no place else!
mother		You're crazy!
mother		Asshole!
mother		Motherfucker!!!
prince		 Please, Dad...she's heard you. She's had enough!
mother		 He's  trying to kill me!  He's crazy!  Look what he's doing to me!
prince		 Dad,  please ... she's--
father		Get up...you ain't hurt.
prince		 What are you doing here?
jill		What...what are you doing here?
prince		Huh ... it's kind of dead in here.  Where is  everybody?
jill		In bed I guess...  Guess what, I bought a dog.
prince		That's nice...  Ah, I guess I'll come back at a better time.  You think tonight the the place'll be jumping?
jill		Well, I'll be here -- I always like what you do.
jill		Wait! I've got something for you.
prince		What? A subpoena?
jill		 No...
jill		It's a song Lisa and Wendy wrote.
prince		 Why didn't they give it to me themselves?
jill		Well, I liked it and wanted to listen to it. They told me to give it to you when I was done.
prince		You really liked it, huh?
morris		One, two, three, kick!  One, two, three, kick! Four, five...Oh, Lord.  Cut! Cut!
morris		You ladies don't seem to realize how valuable my time is.  You're going to make my boys look bad.
brenda		Why don't you let us come up with our own steps?
morris		We tried that...  ... remember?
morris		Now you're in the best possible position you can be in, so what' s the matter -- your shoes on too tight or something?  Let's have some action, let's have some asses wiggling, I want some perfection. Whawhak!
morris		I think I'm going to need a drink, a strong drink.  Let's get the hell out of here.
morris		This just ain't happening. The bitches are okay, but we need something more exciting-
jerome		You're right.  We could be doing much better.  Any ideas?
morris		That powder fine babe we saw last night.
jerome		Oooh, yeee! -- Why don't we find out who she is?
morris		I already know that.  Jill gave me everything last night. Whawhak!
jerome		Then what are we waiting for? Let's go!
morris		No, no -- that ain't classy enough.  I want the bitch to come to me -- I'm the only star in this town.
babe		 Morris Day, who do you think you are?!  I waited up all night for you.  I'm so tired of you doing that  to me. You think you're so hot?  You're nothing special.  This is the third time you pulled that shit.  Who the fuck do you think I am?!
morris		Jerome!
babe		 Leave me alone you ape! -- What are you doing to me?! Morris!!
morris		Lo-rd..!  Such nastiness.  Hee, hee -- Let's break.
morris		Jerome, this car -- it's...it's lacking something. What do you think?
jerome		Hmm... I don't know...
morris		I got it!  The hubcaps.  We need something sweeter.
jerome		I think I know what it needs.
morris		Yeah ... I know what these need.
morris		 The girl has expensive tastes. I wonder if she can sing.
jerome		As fine as she is...she doesn't have to know how to sing.
morris		 Hey -- watch it now.
morris		I want you to stay out of the set tonight.  I want you to work the floor.
jerome		What for?
morris		I want to know when that sweet thing shows up.  You stay by the door, you see her, you come get me, cool?
jerome		Cool.  I come get you -- let you know the girl's there.
morris		Well, not if I'm with my other babes.  That wouldn't be cool. I don't want to break their hearts, and you know how I feel abouy that.  So we ought to have like, a signal.
jerome		A password.
morris		Okay.  What's the password?
jerome		You got it.
morris		Got what?
jerome		The password.
morris		The password is what?
jerome		Exactly.
morris		The password is exactly?
jerome		No, it's--
morris		-- Hold it now.  Slow down. The babe walks in and you see her.
jerome		I see her.
morris		You come get me.
jerome		I come get you.
morris		And I'll probably have a couple little sexies on the stand-by, and we don't want to upset them, do we?  So you just glide by me and say...what?
jerome		Okay.
morris		The password is okay?
jerome		Far as I'm concerned.
morris		Dammit!  Say the password.
jerome		What.
morris		Say the password, sperm breath!
jerome		The password is what.
morris		 That's what I'm asking you!
jerome		 It's the password!
morris		The password is it?
jerome		 Ahhhhh! The password is what!
morris		It!  You just said so!
jerome		The password isn't it!  The password is--
morris		-- What?
jerome		Got it!
morris		1 got it?
jerome		Right.
morris		It or right?
jerome		 What??
shoeshine boy		Either of you do heavy drugs?
prince		There ... on your boot.
vanity		Hey, wait!
vanity		Give it back to mel
prince		You can have it back later.
vanity		I want it back now, okay?
prince		Who gave it to you?
vanity		A person
prince		Female or male?
vanity		Huh ...
prince		You're lying.  I can tell just by your reaction that you're lying.
prince		So you gave it to me -- it's not yours anymore.
vanity		You see something you like?
prince		Let's go for a ride.
vanity		It's pretty.
vanity		My psychic told rne I was going to be famous.
prince		How much did that cost you?
vanity		Fifty bucks.  It was a good investment.
vanity		No seriously -- My psychic did tell me.  I was in a play once.
prince		Oh, yeah -- what did you play?
vanity		Isadora Duncan...
vanity		That means I can sing and dance.  Want to help me?
prince		 Nope.
vanity		 Pardon me?
prince		Nope.
prince		Want to know why?
vanity		 Nope.
prince		 Because you wouldn't pass the initiation.
vanity		What initiation?
prince		Well, for starters ycu have to purify yourself in the waters of Lake Minnetonka.
vanity		What?
prince		You have to purify yourself in Lake Minnetonka.
prince		Hey, wait a minute! Thats--
vanity		We made a deal!
prince		Hold it.
vanity		What?
prince		That ain't Lake Minnetonka.
vanity		 You bastard.  I don't believe it.  How could you do that to me?!
vanity		Damn you -- I'll kill you.
vanity		 You prick! Are you sick?! Is this some kind of ritual   -- getting your kicks! How many girls have you done this to?
vanity		Bastard!
prince		Hey ...
kim		Honey, you still chasing after that fool?
jill		I'm doing what I'm doing. It's my business.
katy		He doesn't even look at you. That's the last thing you want from a man.
jill		You just don't know him like I do.
kim		Honey... Look, Listen, and then Feel.  If you do them in any other order, you're headed for trouble.
bobby		Hey, Jill -- where's our drinks?
jill		They're coming -- just wait.
jill		What you want isn't on the menu.
bobby		Jill, in ten years they'll be on the table.
bobby		C'mon, c'mon ...
matt		 BooPoo!!
kim		Get out of here, you jerks!
matt		Sweetheart ... do you have a real hot place where I could stick my nose?
kim		Sure -- try a microwave.
katy		Those guys are deep.
kim		Yeah -- deeply retarded.
vanity		 Keep the change.
chick		The manager wants to see you.
vanity		Really..?  Oh, great...like to see him too.
chick		He'll be right with you.
billy sparks		Hi, I'm Billy Sparks, I manage this place.
vanity		Hi -- I really like your club.
billy		Really...
vanity		What time is it?
billy		Nine, sweets.
vanity		Oh, that's a really nice watch. Very pretty.
vanity		You  look like a guy I used to go out with -- he was a lot older, but I like older men.
billy		Really, what a coincidence.
vanity		I just came off a Broadway play.  My grandmother got sick.
billy		Does she live here?
vanity		No, in New York ...  But, huh,  I have a sister here, lives in Saint ... huh ...
billy		...Paul.
vanity		Amazing.
billy		Ye-es.  What do you want to do?  You don't want to be a waitress do you?
vanity		No ... no...Actually I was thinking more in the way of the stage.
billy		Of course... how about dinner?
vanity		Theatre?
billy		Dinner, then the theatre, my sweets.
vanity		Oh, huh...
jerome		Hi ya, Billy.
billy		Good evening, Jerome.
vanity		Jerome -- I was looking all over for you!
billy		You know each other?
vanity		Of course.
jerome		Yes, we've met.  I have something to show you.
vanity		Great.  See you later, Billy.
vanity		You rescued me.
jerome		 Ye-es.
wendy		Hi  ya, Prince.  I heard through the grapevine you had a new tune written by two great girls.  By chance did you hear it?
lisa		I knew it -- he didn't listen to it.  He probably dropped it under his bike and rolled over it.
wendy		Wow! Okay...you think about this.  I'm going to be real honest with you.  You're really being full of shit.
lisa		Forget about it, Wendy.  Let's get out of here--
wendy		 Every time we give you a song, you say you're going to use it, but you never do.  You always think that we're doing something behind your back. You're just being paranoid as usual.
lisa		Wendy...
wendy		 You should know by now that we wouldn't hurt vou.  We're not out to put a dark cloud over your head.  It's just to make you feel good, Prince -- that's what it's all about. You've been this way with us before, remember?
prince		 The nominees for the best actress are--
lisa		-- Fuck it, Wendy -- let's break!
wendy		Do you know you can really, really hurt people?  Doesn't that mean anything to you? Doesn't that make you feel like shit?
lisa		C'mon ...
wendy		I'm tired of this ... I'm really tired...
prince		You tired, too?
matt		God got Wendy's periods reversed.  About every 28 days, she starts acting nice. Lasts about a weekend.
bobby		What difference does it make, Prince.  We're still a group, right?
mark		Headcase.  Telling you...'effed up headcase.
bobby		People with talent usually are.
mark		Of course, there are a number of headcases without great talent too.
morris		Honey -- don't you ever try and breastfeed no baby now.
girl		Why not?
morris		Never mind ...
jerome		What.
morris		What?
jerome		Right.  What.
morris		What??
jerome		You got it.
morris		Ye-es  What time is it?
girl		 Tea time.
morris		So, right.
stagehand		Prince, five minutes.
jerome		Vanity, I'd like you to meet Morris E. Day.
morris		Hold it now -- just leave the 'E' alone.
jerome		 Vanity...this is Morris Day
morris		The pleasure's all mine.
jerome		If you'd excuse me.
morris		Too sexy ...  Have  a waitress bring.a bottle of their best champacne.
morris		Your lips would make a lollipop too happy.
vanity		You think so, huh?
morris		Ye-es.
kim		Who's paying for this Morris?
morris		I think you know that.  Jerome!
morris		Huh, keep the change--
morris		Get my change, will ya?
morris		Oh, Lord...either somebody put something in my drink, or you are the finest  I've seen in ages.
vanity		Excuse me, what did you say?
morris		Huh...you look nice tonight.
morris		It's rare that I out my cards on the table when it comes to meeting younq ladies, but ... I'm going to make you love me.
vanity		Is that a  fact?
morris		Just as sure as my Stacy Adams are shiny.
morris		He doesn't like girls.
vanity		I know -- he likes women.
morris		Well ... he don't do too good with them either.
billy		What's this intercourse, shit?
prince		Hey; man -- don't worry about it.
billy		I'm warning you...
jill		Surprise!
prince		Hey -- wait till we're married, now.
wendy		Oh, my God -- look at this!
jill		Notice anything?
prince		What?
wendy		It looks like you!
jill		His hair ...
prince		Shit ...
jill		 I wanted to cheer you up.
prince		Thanks.
matt		I'm hungry -- where's the food?!
vanity		Hey...
prince		We have to go to your place.
vanity		What for?
prince		I want to show you something.
vanity		No...no, we can't.
prince		Why -- is there someone there?
vanity		Why do you always think there's somebody else?
prince		Let's go.
vanity		 Yeah -- but we're not going to my place.
vanity		That was a grand entrance. Where am I?
vanity		So -- friends of yours?
prince		Yeah -- the freak show.
vanity		Hey...
vanity		If you think you scared me, you didn't.
prince		Oh, yeah ...
vanity		Who's the lucky girl?  Sounds like she was having a good time.
prince		She's crying -- it's backwards.  It makes me sad when I hear it.  It sorta sounds like she's laughing, doesn't it?
vanity		So what did you do to her? Do you always treat your women like that?
prince		I don't have anybody right now.
vanity		You look pretty...
vanity		King Kong?
prince		Stop.
vanity		No.
mother		 Please!
father		 No!!
voice		Damn, baby, hold it!  Hold it!!  Oh, God -- God!  You broke my nose!
vanity		You shit! What the hell are you doing here?
morris		Shh! Shh! Shh! oh, Lord help me outta here.  Hee, hee -- I know you wouldn't want to spend the whole night with ol' pencil dick.
vanity		Your nose alright?
morris		My nose is fine, I'm just wondering if I fucked my shoes up...  C'mon ...
vanity		Hi, Jerome.  Wow!  Nice hubcaps.
jerome		You like them, huh?
vanity		Beautiful.
morris		Jerome...you think these can be fixed?
jerome		I think they're dead, man.
vanity		God, I'm sorry.
morris		Shit -- it's so rough out here.
morris		You lock the door, baby? Let's go!
morris		Jerome!
jerome		Cocktails before dinner?
morris		Yes -- two pia coladas.
vanity		Uh...make mine a virgin.
jerome		Okay...
jerome		 Will you be having a virgin as well?
morris		Ye-es!  For dessert!! Whawhak!
morris		Thank you.  Here you are, dear.
morris		Jerome, uh, get your pad and pencil, I think it's gonna be kinda right.  If my judge of character is correct, it's going to be about loving tonight.  Stop me when I get to seventeen.
morris		Excuse me, baby...I bet you didn't know I had a piece of this restaurant, did you?  May I taste that?
morris		Huh, excuse me, that's kind of weak...here, try mine.
vanity		Good God!
morris		Y'know...they say that saliva is an aphrodisiac.  You look so lovely tonight.
vanity		 Why...thank you.
morris		Probably you'd look better under exotic...red...liqhts.  I wish you could see my home. It's...it's so exciting.
morris		In my bedroom, I have a brass waterbed ...
vanity		Oooh!
morris		I have an Italian cook, Gino Izogochograchi, or something like that.
morris		It's funny...your eyes -- when you stare at me like that, it causes my stomach to qui- quiver.  Oh, Lord...
morris		Do you like diamonds?
vanity		Uh, huh.
morris		Yeah ...?
vanity		Yeah.
morris		I know it's rather masculine, but -- try this one on.
vanity		Ohhh!
morris		My God, darling it fits.
morris		You must have strong hands, but -- they're so soft...like oils in my bubble bath.  Damn ...
morris		Darling...?
vanity		Yeah...?
morris		I'm not usually so forward, but -- would you like to make love to me?  I can make it so nice ...
morris		Do you know what is meant by the words, huh, I hate to use them, they're so harsh, so American...I mean, and yet on the other hand, they're exciting words.  The words... 
morris		You know, I haven't made love in so long, but with you I know it would be just like riding a bike.  I'd remember everything I've ever learned.  Baby, if the kid can't make you come, nobody can.
jerome		 Morris..!
morris		Yeah...?
jerome		Seventeen.
morris		Huh, what's it gonna to be baby?
vanity		PULL OVER THERE!
morris		What?!
jerome		What?!
vanity		Over there -- that's where I live.
morris		Here...?
vanity		Yes.
morris		Uh, what one is it?
vanity		That one, right there, see? On the 14th floor.
morris		It's nice, huh?
vanity		Oh, it's great.  Real pretty. Big open rooms, balconies, fireplace -- the works.
morris		Jerome!
vanity		Hey, wait!  C'mon!  Okay -- where are you taking me?
morris		Home.  You and me are a lot alike.- I like that.  So, I'd like to help you out.  I think I have something you may be interested,  in.
vanity		Oh yeah -- what?
morris		A little song and dance.  That is, if you can sing and dance.
vanity		 Prince is goinq to help me.
jerome		Motherfucker needs a haircut.
morris		Hee, hee, uh, excuse me.  No he won't.  He's never done anything in his whole life for anybody but himself.
vanity		Guys better than you have promised me things before.
morris		I know that's right, but--
morris		Come by any time.
morris		Jerome!
morris		 One more thing ...
morris		Here's a little something for you.  If you get cold when you wear it, call me.
vanity		Morris...?
vanity		I had a feeling it was you -- I knew it!  It's amazing -- I could tell it was you.
prince		How'd you get home?
vanity		Took a cab.
prince		Oh yeah?  Where'd you get that?
vanity		I adore camisoles.
prince		Let's ride.
aerial shot		Prince and Vanity on his motorcycle whipping down the highway.  The DAWN LIGHT breaks over the horizon.
another angle		as Prince and Vanity whip up to the top of a small hill, skid to a stop.  He scans the area quickly, gets his bearings.  He pops the clutch, skids off to the valley below.
vanity		God, this is beautiful.  It reminds me of where I grew up. My father used to ...
prince		Your father used to what...?
vanity		Nothing...it's just...  You must like places like this.
vanity		So, have you reconsidered my proposal?
prince		What...?
vanity		What we talked about last time.
prince		You can't be serious.
vanity		Oh, come on -- you know you really want to.  You've been waiting for this opportunity ...all...your...life...
prince		I'm sorry -- excuse me.
vanity		God -- so why do you come around?  You don't want to help me, not that you have to. You don't want to sleep with me, not that you have to do that either.  So why am I here?
vanity		There's a lot of things you don't know about me.  You'd be surprised how many things I could do.
vanity		Take me home immediately!  I want to go home.  I can't stand this!  I can't take this anymore!  Prince!
vanity		 Prince! Who do you think you are?!  You don't care.  You don't care about anything!  I never wanted you to help me anyway!
prince		Good morning.
vanity		PRINCE, I HATE YOU!
hikers		Good morning, sir.
vanity		 I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have said those things.  Will you forgive me?
prince		 Yes.
another angle		RAIN patters srtongly against the barn. A deep THUNDER rolls.  She's on top of him, moving deliciously, her body glowing in the purple, dawn light. Moist, purple water shadows streak and course her skin as she moves slowly, then deliberately against him.  He watches her avidly,  his hands firmly on her thighs, and thrusts into her again and again...and again.
prince		See you later?
vanity		When?
prince		Why?
vanity		'Cause I have to do something first.
prince		What?
vanity		 A secret...
prince		Tell me.
vanity		No.
prince		Okay, come by -- eight o'clock.
vanity		Bye...
hallway		as she comes to a halt outside her room, picking up carnations along the way. She opens her door, cuts inside.
vanity		Yes...?
man		Delivery.
vanity		 Come in ...
vanity		Hey -- wait a minute.  What's going on?
man		Downstairs.
morris		Good morning, dahling.
vanity		You're crazy! -- What are you doing?
morris		 Come down -- come down.
vanity		I can't -- I've got things to do.
morris		C'mon, ten minutes.  I want to show you something-
vanity		I'm sorry, but thanks for the flowers.  You're really crazy.
jerome		Well...what do you think?
morris		Chili sauce.
morris		Oh, Lord...
wendy		What's wrong?
wendy		Is that better? Do you like that?
prince		Where is everybody?
lisa		You're late -- they left.
prince		So what are you doing here?
lisa		 But I'm here to tell you that there's something else -- our music--.
prince		Can't you guys get off it? Can't you just leave it alone?
wendy		Yeah -- we'll get off it.
morris		As you can see, we need someone with your special qualities.
father		You ain't got no business leaving here!  All your sneaking around -- you're just a sinner!  You're nothing but a low life sinner!
mother		Shut up!  You don't care about me!  Leave me alone!
father		Don't I keep the heat on? Isn't there food in the refrigerator?
mother		 I don't like it here.  You never talk to me! I'm always alone!
prince		Dad, please!
father		 What's the matter with this house?  Isn't it nice and warm here?!
mother		You're crazy!
father		Shut up!
father		Shut up!
mother		 Motherfucker!!
father		Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
prince		 Dad!
mother		I'm just trapped here...
father		You always got a roof overhead...
mother		You don't let me have any fun...
father		I could make you happy.  Just believe in me...
mother		You never...
father		I would die for you.
mother		It's nice here.  It's a nice house.  Nothing wrong.  Your father is okay.  He's a good man.  You could learn somthing.
mother		My, my!  Don't you think I have a good figure?  Your Father did.
mother		I was beautiful when your Dad met me.  I was out-a-sight!
mother		I looked just like a movie star.  The minute he saw me singing, I knew just what he wanted.
mother		He wanted to get into my panties.
mother		You look so pretty.  Just like me, honey.  You coulda been a girl.
mother		So pretty...
mother		 I have to go now, see some friends.  Don't tell your father, okay?
mother		Bye, skipper...bye.
vanity		I missed you!  Missed you! Missed you!
prince		Come here.  Where were you?
vanity		I have a big surprise for you.
vanity		 Da...da..!
prince		What is it?
vanity		Open it.
prince		Oh, no...  Oh, no!
prince		How'd you do it?
prince		Here...
vanity		I love it!
vanity		I'm going to join Morris' group.
prince		What?
vanity		I'm going to join Morris' group.
prince		I'm sorry!  Oh, baby, I'm sorry! Are you alright?
vanity		Just...leave me alone.
prince		Please...it's just...  Do you know Morris?  Do you know what he's about? He doesn't care about you.
vanity		Jealous..?!
prince		Where's Lisa and Wendy?
bobby		They haven't shown up yet.
prince		They call?
chick		Prince.  Billy Sparks wants to see you.
prince		Tell him I'm rehearsing.
chick		Uh, uh -- now.
billy		What do you want?
prince		You wanted to see me?
billy		You having trouble?
prince		 No.
billy		No?
prince		No ...
billy		Where's Lisa and Wendy?
billy		Morris called me this morning. Seems he's got himself a new group called Vanity Six.  You know anything about them?
prince		 No.
billy		He tells me they're great. Thinks I'll be interested. That's cool, but now I've got a problem.
prince		What's that?
billy		I book three acts -- I can't afford four.  If they're as good as Morris says they are, one of you will have to go...
billy		Go around the block!
billy		It won't be The Time -- they're playing backup to Vanity.  So it's either you or the Modern Aires.  What would You do in my position?
billy		 I like the Modern Aires.  They have a good following -- they show up for practice -- and the kids like all their music.
billy		'Nough said.  Get smart. Straighten up your shit.
prince		I want to talk to you.
vanity		Not now,  I'm busy.
prince		Now.
vanity		I said I'm busy -- we'll talk later.
prince		Uh, uh...
vanity		Leave me alone!  I've got a show to do!
vanity		YOU can't just come in here and take me away!  We'll talk later!
morris		Man -- why don't you just do the walk?
prince		Why don't you kiss the one- eyed snake?
morris		Jellybean!
jellybean		Let's go, Jack.
prince		Fuck you!
vanity		Leave me alone, dammit!  Get out of here!
jellybean		 Fucker!!
jellybean		Stay still, motherfucker!!
jellybean		Shit!!
jellybean		Stop!!
vanity		Jellybean, please...
jellybean		Lift him.
vanity		 Don't hurt him ...
prince		Ma...?
mother		 Hi, ya, baby...
prince		Ma...what happened?
mother		Can you give me some money? C'mon, just some money...
mother		Here...here...
mother		Give me something for this...just a little.  It'll be okay...
prince		C'mon...I'll take you home.
cop		Okay, c'mon now -- break it up.  Let's go..
woman		C'mon, honey -- we're goin' in...
woman		You're a little young aren't you?  Get out of here.  Leave her alone.
prince		Where the fuck are you?
prince		Where are you?
prince		Answer me you fucker!!
prince		Is that yours?
father		'Course it's mine.  Who else's is it goin' to be?  Got all kinds of them.  They're different too.
prince		I'd like to see them.  You got them written down somewhere?
father		No, man -- I don't write them down -- don't need to.  That's the big difference between you and me.
prince		Thought you weren't going to play no more.
prince		I saw Mom up the street.  She looked pretty bad.  Any idea how she got that way?
prince		Yeah...  I got a girlfriend.
father		You gonna get married?
prince		 I don't know.
father		Never get married.
vanity		What are we doing here, Morris?
morris		What do you mean?
vanity		I don't want to be here.  I don't want to hurt anybody.
morris		It's not about hurting anybody.  This is business. We can use the exposure.
brenda		Hi -- you coming in?
vanity		Your horns are showing, Morris.
morris		Yeah...but they're holding up my halo.
bar area		as Billy Sparks shakes hands with Morris and Jerome and is introduced to Vanity Six for the first time.  We can tell by his reaction that he likes what he sees. He kisses Brenda and Susan, saves a special squeeze for Vanity herself.  He escorts the whole group to a table across the floor.  Vanity brings up the rear, casts a quick look to Prince onstage.
prince		fastens on her and brings "Computer Blue" to a rousing end.  The Crowd applauds, but it's more out of respect than eagerness.  He doesn't seem to notice though, or care.  He confers quickly with his group., then moves center-stage.  The Band Members trade frustrated looks with each other -- it's obvious that they have some trouble with the next song...
prince		I knew a girl named Nicky, I guess you can say she was a sex fiend. I met her in a hotel lobby masturbating in magazines. She said, How'd you like to waste some time, And I could not resist When I saw little Nicky grind.
billy sparks		shoots a fierce look to Prince, helps Morris, Jerome and the Girls to their table.  Vanity is watching Prince, a puzzled look on her face--
morris		Hee, hee...little empty tonight, huh, Billy.  But I guess money isn't everything.
jerome		Oh no... that's cold...
billy		The Duke of Dick is in rare form tonight.
prince		is fastened on Vanity and it's apparent to all.  He launches into the next verse- -
prince		She took me to her castle And I could not believe my eyes. She had so many devices Everything that money could buy. She said, Sign your name on the dotted line, The lights went out, And Nicky started to grind.
vanity		flushes with embarrassment.  Billy and Morris notice this and glare at Prince.
prince		looks dead-center at them, and then to Vanily--
prince		I woke up the next morning. Nicky wasn't there. I looked all ov'r all I found Was a phone number on the stairs. It said thank you for a funky time, Call me up when ev'r you want to grind.
vanity		stands suddenly, fighting back tears. She backs from the table quickly, knocks the chair over.  Morris tries to help her, but she sweeps past him, hurrying for the exit.
chick		Hey ...
prince		brings the SONG to a blistering end. The stage is plunged into darkness.  He strips off his guitar, cuts from the stage, ignoring the grave looks from his Band Members.
billy		What the fuck's wrong with you, Prince?!
prince		I don't have time for your bullshit, Billy.  What do you want?
billy		My stage is no place for your personal shit!
prince		That's life, man.
billy		Life my ass, motherfucker! This is a business, and you're not too far gone to see that.  I've told you this before. You're not pulling them in like you used to.  The only person who gives a fuck about your music is yourself.
prince		Fuck off!
billy		Just like your old man...
billy		Yeah -- you got it.  Tell me I'm wrong.  You're not blind.  Look around you.  No one's digging you.
billy		Look at your band.  Are they in here right now?  They're out there 'cause they can't stand being in the same room with you.  What a fucking waste...like father, like son--
prince		Lay off that!
billy		Take your head out of your ass, Prince, check it out -- unless you like the view up there.  Your music doesn't make sense to anyone but yourself.
jerome		That was fucked up what you did man.  Morris doesn't like it. And being a part of this - - I don't like it either.
prince		I don't care.
morris		Hee, hee...huh, it's obvious you don't have what it takes to be on top.
morris		But to show you that I'm sympathetic to your problems - - here's a pass to our show tomorrow night.  Enjoy it.
morris		Don't forget to bring a girlfriend.  Whawhak!
morris		cuts from the dressing room, closes the door behind him.  He joins Jerome at the curtain, and they move down the back stairway to the CLUB--
morris		 I guess this is it.
jerome		I guess so, M.D.
morris		I think I'm going to be sick. Why does this have to be happening to me?  Has it crossed your mind that we're about to make the biggest mistake we've ever made?
jerome		I don't think it's all that bad.
morris		That's why I do all the thinking.
morris		Oh, God--
morris		 What??
morris		and Jerome are beside themselves with happiness.  The pull off their shades immediately, sit back and glow in the audience's response.
prince		stands in the back, his eyes glued to Vanity.  Her strength and sureness in front of the Crowd is breathtaking.  The audience loves her and he suddenly feels very alone -- as if another wall has gone up between them.  He looks away a moment and spots...
prince		watches the Girls bowing to thunderous APPLAUSE.  Suddenly Vanity looks at him and touches the earring she's wearing -- it's his Mother's.  His knees weaken instantly, and he locks eyes with her. The heat between them is unmistakable. She smiles vividly, gives him an endearing wave and steps back as the curtain closes.
vanity		and the Girls rush into the dressing room and jump up and down with excitement.  They are beside themselves with happiness, kissing and hugging one another avidly.  Suddenly Vanity pulls away, indicates she will be back and cuts out the room.
hallway		as she runs down the hallway to the backstage area, peers from behind the curtain, scanning the club earnestly.
billy		Morris is squeezing you, kiddo.  You better kick ass tomorrow night or else.
backstage		as Vanity watches Prince leave.  A profound sadness sweeps her face. Suddenly Susan is by her Side, hugging and kissing her happily.  Brenda runs up, pouring champagne.  Morris, Jerome and The Time are at the end of the hallway and beckon her excitedly into the room.  Vanity forces a smile, goes down the hallway, casting another look at the exit door.
vanity		Did you hear these people applauding?  They loved us -- they wanted to rip us apart, and this is just our first night.  I can see it now, we're all going to be big stars.  I can feel it.
morris		 Ain't nobody bad like me.
vanity		Morris, you're a genius.
morris		Ye-es...
morris		Let's go, Bebe.
vanity		Huh, where's Jerome?
morris		In his skin...hee, hee...
vanity		Is he coming?
morris		I gave him the night off.
vanity		Why?
morris		Whawhak!
morris		 Oh, no -- Oh, God...No!
prince		Get on!
morris		Stop! Stop!
morris		Motherfucker!  You long-haired faggot!
vanity		So here we are again.  So this is it, huh?  What do you want this time?
vanity		What's your problem now? What's your main problem?
prince		No problem.  I just wanted to talk, alright? I just want us to be okay, to really get along.  No big deal.
vanity		No big deal, huh...
prince		Give me that.
vanity		No, definitely not.  Who are you?  You can't tell me what to do.
prince		Please don't drink that.  Give it to me.
vanity		If you put your hands on me like that ever again, I'll be the last person you touch.
the driver		spots her in his HEADLIGHTS, SLAMS on his brakes!  He SKIDS wildly across the road, comes to a SCREECHING, BURNING stop inches from her thigh!
vanity		shoots a look at Prince, her lips trembling, her love for him, written plainly on her face.  But his eyes flash defiantly.  She bites her lip sadly, then snaps a hot look at the Driver--
vanity		I  need a  ride.
prince		Dad...?
prince		Mom...?
prince		Daddd...!
medic		Lift!
prince		sits motionless a long time.  Moonlight floods the basement with a foreboding light.  A dog BARKS somewhere in the distance.  He looks up suddenly, his face agitated, his eyes red from tears.
prince		 Noooooo!!
another angle		Cool, gray dawn.  He's in a dead sleep on the floor, his arms outstretched, his legs twisted beneath him.  His Father's outline seemingly rests by his side...
mc		 Let's bring them back!  Ladies and gentlemen, The Time!
morris		You love us right?!  You want us right?!  I can't hear you!
morris		What time is it?!  Whawhak!!
billy		Jesus!
band members		 It's all over now.  He better watch out.  He doesn't even need to go on.  He might as well go home.
morris		How's the family!  Whawhak!
mc		 Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Prince!
billy sparks		leans against the bar, a smug look on his face.
vanity		walks slowly up the stairs, gazes at Prince.
prince		does not move.  The APPLAUSE trickles away.  He continues to stare in the audience making no attempt to direct his Band, or start a tune.  A nervous TWITTER ripples though the crowd.  Those who know about the tragedy feel a profound embarrassment for him -- but no one turns away.  Then his voice comes clear and mellifluous--
prince		I would like to do a song that two of my friends wrote.
vanity		is crying.  Every moment she has shared with him is expressed in this song, and the effect on her is unnerving.  Her heart leaps to him in a way she never thought possible.  But she lets it go willingly, as the words draw her in, seducing her somehow, making her free...as if the music, his words, all that he has experienced and  understood, is purging what is confused and ugly within herself, leaving her with an understanding and joy that burns in her womb like soft fire.  A smile springs to her lips as tears continue to flow, and she finds herself moving closer...
prince		is still running though, his face streaming with tears, past the surprised look of Jill, past the FANS, past everyone -- stripping of his clothes fiercely, flinging off his jacket, his shirt, his scarf--
prince		Hi.
jill		Hi.
vanity		I love you.
stage		THUNDER!  Prince walks center- stage...and bows.  The AUDIENCE goes BERSERK!  He acknowledges Wendy and Lisa, and then the entire Band.  The CROWD is jumping out of their skin!  He straps on his guitar, gives a deft signal and--
****Dialogues from script :Quantum_Project.txt****

voice		Professor Pentcho?
arlette		We can start the descent now.
guide		Two hundred feet below us is the world's largest particle accelerator...
pentcho		Did you get that data off to Braverman at Cal Tech?
arlette		Done.
arlette		We need to progress.
jacque		Hey, it is 3-P-O!  P, P, P!  Professore Paulo Pentcho!
pentcho		That's not an official nickname, Jacque.
jacque		Beh!  Eets just tun-nel humor.
pentcho		Did they recalibrate the 3k turn?
jacque		Benissimo, Professore.
pentcho		Fifteen seconds Arlette...
pentcho's voice		Ten, nine, eight...
woman		Then goodbye...
female voice		WHAT DO YOU WANT?
jacque's voice		Impact!
voice		What the hell were you thinking?  What?  I want to know!  WHAT?!!
pentcho		Probability of this happening, same make, model, color and year is less likely than the proof for the existence of God.
will		 You got insurance?
will		Up the ramp.  Yeah... I'll --  There you are!  See me?  See?  They won't let you in?  Just walk... Here I am.
singer's voice		I know this world is kil...ling you...
will		I'll be there, Trent.  Yes.  20 minutes --
woman		Paul...?
will's voice		Mia...
mia		Then goodbye...
pentcho		Less likely than the existence of God.
mia		Day or night?
pentcho		Both.
will's voice		Mi.
pentcho		Is that your...
mia		No.  Not yet.
pentcho		Could we go somewhere?
mia		I'm heading out of town.
pentcho		 Okay.
mia		What?
pentcho		I could go out of town.
mia		Could you?
pentcho		 Where to?
mia		A place you've never been.
pentcho		That's the physicist's playground.
mia		Why am I doing this?
pentcho		It's an experiment.
mia		We flopped the first time out.
pentcho		At the sub-atomic level, particles obey their own logic.  They connect in unimaginable ways.
mia		And you think this is relevant to our relationship?
pentcho		Could be.
mia		 What universe are you in, Paul?
pentcho		A quantum one.
pentcho		The shorthand is, when you send electrons through space, it's impossible to say precisely what they are: particles or waves.
mia		The Buddhists have been saying that for a millennium.
pentcho		How?
mia		Baby, reality is what you choose to make it.
pentcho		God.
mia		But only if you live your life that way.  If you experience every moment as discovery.
pentcho		Mia!  You're restoring heaven with dabs of paint.  You're bringing new order to the universe.
mia		I always said we were in the same business...
pentcho		If you're right, we have a chance.  To be together.
pentcho		When I was a kid I used to snap my head back like a gunfighter on the draw, hoping to catch a glimpse behind me.
mia		Of what?
pentcho		God.  I dunno.  The eternal nothingness. Mia.
mia		Welcome, Paul.  Welcome.
pentcho		An electron spoke to me yesterday.   I swear.
mia		What did it want?
pentcho		That's what it asked me.  "What do you want?"  I didn't answer.  I was in the middle of an experiment.
mia		Like now?
pentcho		Yes.
mia		No.  I didn't.   I'm listening.
pentcho		Inside every semi-conductor... you have two particles, with opposite charges, separated by an impassable barrier...
mia		She's in L.A., he's in the Bay area --
pentcho		 A five hundred foot thick steel wall.  But the connection between these two electrons is so --
mia		Dysfunctional --
pentcho		That they tunnel, magically, through any obstacle, defying the practical laws of physics, in order to end up together --
mia		And glow happily ever after.
employee		Rented every last ve-hicle.  'Cept one.
pentcho		I'll take it.
alexander		Paul... Pauly...
pentcho		I... I thought you were dead.
alexander		I must be.
alexander		Look at me.
pentcho		You taking any medication?
alexander		Don't waste it Pauly.  This is not an everyday talk.  Just input the information and ask relevant questions.  One: how did a celebrated life of the mind bring me  to this particular switching station?
pentcho		Dad...
alexander		Two: what if I didn't miss?
pentcho		You did.
alexander		Spare me your classical answer. Measurements in.  Results taken.  What if I didn't miss?
pentcho		You did miss --
alexander		-- What if your seven and a half precious liters were downloading over the parquet floor?  What then?   Who did you nurture, Pauly?  Who did you love?
pentcho		Excuse me???
alexander		What was her name?  The one I met.
pentcho		Mia...?
alexander		Yes....
pentcho		I need some air.  Don't shoot me.
alexander		We've been kidding ourselves, Pauly.  Until you look for it, it doesn't even exist.
old woman		You would have a son with me...
pentcho's voice		"If you could look back fast enough, at near to the speed of light, then there would be no reality behind you, because it hadn't yet been created --
voice		Uncle, hey...
magic man		Can you feel it, uncle?  Can you feel it right down to your bones?!
pentcho		Yes.   Yes I can.
woman's voice		What do you want?!
alexander		Guess who's coming to dinner.
mia		I didn't want to leave things the way we did.  Not this time.
pentcho		Wait.  I want to tell you something.
mia		I've been dreaming about this.
pentcho		 Then you get it.  You'll understand.
mia		What?
pentcho		I know what I want.  I let go, and a second later you materialized at the door.  You see?
mia		You know those people who won't be photographed because they're afraid you're stealing their souls...?  I came to take back my picture.  The one I keep leaving with you.
pentcho		Why?
mia		So I can move on.  You too.
mia's voice		I'll drive.
alexander		Do you want to think about it some more?
will		You okay?
pentcho's voice		What do you want?
voice		Impact!
****Dialogues from script :Queen.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Queen_of_the_Damned.txt****

alex		What the hell, Maudy.
lestat		Please don't stop.
james		What the f-- How did you get in here?
lestat		The door, of course.
lestat		Your music woke me from the longest sleep. It's sublime. In two hundred years I've never heard anything quite like it.
alex		Who the hell are you?
lestat		You may call me the vampire Lestat.
lestat		Your struggles are over.
lestat		All that you've ever dreamed of will be yours.
alex		 What the hell is this?
lestat		Your lucky day.
james		Cool.   We got our very own vampire.
maudy		Hey, Vampire Lestat, I've always wondered... about Keith Richards...
fans		Lestat!    Lestat!
roger		May I present the Vampire Lestat.
lestat		Good evening. I'm so sorry I'm late. I was just having my... breakfast.
journalist		Excellent makeup job.   Marilyn Manson, look out...
roger		Hey, hey! We're gonna keep this short here! One at a time. You!
lestat		Yes. But why hide it in this day and age? I've hidden in the shadows for centuries. It's time to share myself with the world.
music journalist		And it doesn't hurt the record sales, huh? Your album just topped all kinds of sales records.
lestat		Our label isn't complaining, no.
lestat		If you like, I'll give you a private demonstration in your hotel room tonight.
lifestyle journalist		Why not a demo at your own house? I mean, what's with all the secrecy about where you stay? Is it true you move residences every few days?
lestat		 After calling one stone tomb home sweet home for so long, I like to experience as much diversity as I can. Wouldn't you?
music journalist		There are a lot of rumors flying around the internet about the hidden meaning in your lyrics, that you're giving away 'vampire secrets.' Something in all that?
music journalist		Of the closet.
lestat		 The casket...
music journalist		Your first and only concert's in Death Valley, just days away. Why just the one?
lestat		 I don't like repeating myself.
music journalist		But these other vampires, aren't they going to be pissed that you're giving away their secrets?
lestat		I imagine they are, yes.
lifestyle journalist		Do you have anything to say to the other vampires listening out there?
lestat		Yes, as a matter of fact, I do...
lestat		See you all in Death Valley.
lestat		 Come out, come out, whoever you are.
vampire		Ah, Jesse. You want to come and play with us, don't you?
vampire		Soon, soon, little one. I'll make sure you're with us forever.
jesse		No!
jesse		I have reason to believe Lestat's the real thing. A vampire. And an ancient one.
jesse		 It would appear that way. But have you listened to his songs? Read his lyrics?
jesse		Well,i have. In one of his songs he refers to a pub called the Sailor's Arms. I think it's a clue...
jesse		 'Where are you now? Back in the sailor's arms, somewhere in the back streets of Soho?' I tracked down the old leases in London. It turns out, in the late 1700's, there was a pub right in the backstreets of Soho called the Sailor's Arms.
jesse		And it had a reputation for dealing with black magic. Witches' covens, seances, that sort of thing.
jesse		And most importantly, reports of people being lured there and subsequently attacked by bloodsucking fiends.
jesse		Here's where you could find the Sailor's Arms in old London.
jesse		And here is where it would be today. Of course the Sailor's Arms is not there anymore. That part of London is mostly old warehouses, meat-packing plants.
jesse		Yes, but right now there's only one place to get a drink -- of sorts. A private club -- in exactly the same place. The Waverly Arms.
jesse		Well, what happens at the Waverly Arms now makes the Sailor's Arms look like a Happy Meal at McDonald's.
jesse		It's a vampire coven. And Lestat's leading us to it.
jesse		 ... in motion.
jesse		 But listen, if you look closely, you can see they're vampires. I'm sure of it. And Lestat's leading us to them and --
jesse		But... uh...
jesse		 I did.
jesse		Yes.   Last night.
jesse		No one.  I... just... went.  Look, I know it was breaking protocol and I'm really sorry, it's just I think --
jesse		 Hey, does it look like I got involved? That is not called involvement. That is called running.
jesse		Vampires.   Gathering.   I'm sure of it.
jesse		You have to listen to Lestat's lyrics. They're amazing. 
jesse		Right. That's the best part. Lestat's not afraid to piss them off. He wants mortals and immortals to know he's there, to know he exists. I don't know why...  But this has never happened before. Don't you see? He's a one man revolution.
jesse		Fine. Well then, I guess I'll just have to go back and get better, more conclusive evidence! Maybe you just can't unravel all the mysteries of the world out there, by sitting around all day in a dusty old library in here!
talbot		My office.   Now.
sleek bouncer		Okay, you, in. You. No...  You, no.
unattractive guy		C'mon, man, she's waiting for me in there. She said she was putting me on the list. My name's Norman --
lestat		You.   In...
lestat		 You.   No.
roger		Yeah, Phil. We'll need a limo from the airport. I don't know which airfield yet... I don't know the arrival time either. 
roger		 -- just uh... shy... that's it... shy.
james		We rock.
lestat		Yes, I'd say I'm down with that.
james		I'm ready for Los Angeles...
maudy		I'm ready for Death Valley.  Two days till we go...
alex		Think we can call that a night.
lestat		Oh, the sweet song of her blood.
lestat		I'll hear it in my head all night.
lestat		Roger...
lestat		I didn't know you were religious.
lestat		Roger...
lestat		Be careful, Roger.   Very careful.
talbot		How's everything? You alright? You sleeping okay?
jesse		Yeah, I'm great. I just found a vampire.
talbot		 Jesse... you're taking this Lestat stuff pretty seriously... why?
jesse		Cause I think I'm on to something pretty big. The most important sighting Talamasca's had in years...  Jesus, I don't know, David... I thought I was onto something... Maybe I didn't see anything...
talbot		You know we work in a really strange field? The supernatural is beguiling at times. It doesn't like to just be observed, it is only satisfied when it has drawn us in completely. I know cause I've felt these things myself. 
jesse		 Talbot. C'mon. You know me. I'm not freaking out on you. I'm just onto what looks -- alright looked
jesse		David. There's nothing else. Nothing is 'beguiling' me, alright? Nothing. C'mon.
talbot		Alright.   Just checking...
talbot		Well, all I can say is you're really lucky you're not lying dead in a gutter with two holes on your neck.
jesse		I'd be even luckier if that damn picture came out...  Wait a second. So you do believe me? You do think it's a vampire coven.
talbot		 Come back here. I'm gonna show you something.
talbot		What do you see?
jesse		They're all nightscapes. The detail is amazing. Mid-1500s. Florence.
talbot		Right. And what do you see in this one?
talbot		And I know it's a Dutch pastoral.
jesse		This man is in both.
talbot		Right.   He's in all of them.
jesse		Have you --
talbot		Carbon tested? Yes. The different paint samples are all authentic. All painted at the time of that particular style.
talbot		It's Marius, Jesse.
jesse		 Marius?! From Lestat's lyrics. I knew I was right.
talbot		Yes, you were. Good work.
talbot		I've been personally tracing him for decades. My little obsession. The oldest vampire ever documented. The closest we've come to the original vampire.
jesse		What do you mean the original vampire?
talbot		There's a Mesopotamian legend that there once was a queen of Egypt, Akasha, long before Tutankhamen or Nefertiti. She was believed to be the original vampire... Marius himself dates back to 400 B.C...
jesse		David, you've been tracking Marius your whole life. Maybe he's out there waiting for you right now.  Don't you ever want to just go and find him and --
talbot		No. Jesus, we are not talking about having a drink at the Dorchester, Jesse. You know that. Especially with the ancient vampires -- the older they are, the more powerful, the more dangerous...
talbot		Anyway, you don't need to go and stake out some club. Your time is too valuable. I have something far better for you...
jesse		 You do?
talbot		Yes. And I'll tell you something. I've never shown this to anyone. No one else has proved themself in the way you have.
jesse		 Thanks. What is it?
talbot		Oh you're gonna love this.  Although I'm sure it will keep you up nights to come with nightmares...
talbot		Lestat's diary. I found it some years ago. This is where you'll find the answers you need.
talbot		They don't need to know everything, right?
jesse		Thank you for this.
talbot		My pleasure. When I took you on as an apprentice, I knew it was the smartest thing I'd ever done. Now you and I'll meet when you're done... This will be our project...
jesse		Je suis le vampire Lestat...  I am the vampire Lestat.
marius		Lestat.    Welcome.
lestat		Who are you? Do I know you?
marius		I'm unknowable by nature.
marius		But you may call me Marius.
lestat		I'm the lord of a great manor. They'll send an army of men to look for me.
marius		I doubt they'll find you, Lord De Lioncourt. You're a long way from home...
marius		You're weak... near passing. I can barely hear your heartbeat.
lestat		I'll kill you!
marius		You really do fear nothing. It is why I chose you. Because you think things are possible which aren't possible...
lestat		Chose me? For what?
marius		My companion. Someone to share my burden.
marius		You've lost a great deal of blood.
lestat		 I'm dying.
marius		Then drink.
marius		Good, is it not?
marius		Drink and live. You've been brave enough for one night, my son.
marius		Drink... drink and learn.
marius		There... there... that will do.
marius		No... no more.   Lestat, no more!
marius		Don't be afraid, it's only your body that dies...
lestat		More!
marius		That's enough, my son... When you feed, you must hold back from the moment of death. You must never take the last drop, or it will draw you in and you will die...
marius		Remember, there is wisdom in the flesh, Lestat. A man wears his history on his skin...
marius		I'm talking about humanity.
lestat		Humanity?  We're murderers.
marius		We're more than that. Their blood that we take into us carries with it life... their life, their knowledge, their complexity. Appreciate your prey, Lestat.
marius		The trick is to find the way to face eternity head on. The spirit can be annihilated by boredom just as the body can be destroyed by sun or fire. My solace, my delight, is witnessing the unfolding of human destiny...
marius		... From Christ to the Dark Ages to the enlightenment, I've never been able to divine what was coming. That's what keeps me going -- I can't wait to see what human beings are going to do next...
marius		Who could've predicted the Enlightenment? Or Hannibal and his elephants?
marius		Careful.
lestat		But why must we hide, Marius? We are the powerful, we are the immortal. We should walk fearless in the open!
marius		Shhh. The life of a vampire is a life of discretion. We must sleep during the day, when we are vulnerable to the sun. Mortals must never know about us. It is forbidden, for the sake of all our kind.
lestat		 So I could never know her?
marius		Not unless you wanted to kill her.
lestat		 So I can never be known?
marius		You're known by me. I granted you that. There are others of our kind... though most are solitary creatures.
lestat		My God...
marius		Forget God. You're no longer in his realm. Now we must leave.
father		Fantasma!! Teras!!
marius		Stop her, Lestat!
marius		You must!
marius		I will not have you put everything at risk! You will mind our laws!
marius		We remain in the shadows.   To do otherwise is a road to destruction...
marius		 I see you still have a few lingering mortal emotions. They will serve you no good, Lestat.
lestat		My God, what have you done to me?
lestat		 She's just a child... forgive me.
yuppie		Wow. This is the coolest after hours club ever. You sure you don't want a drink?
vampire girl		Soon.
jesse		Sure, all the time.
jesse		You haven't seen the rest of my body.
jesse		My host... oh he's here somewhere.
jesse		Marius...
jesse		Marius has the blood of the ancients flowing in his veins.
jesse		That's a myth. Marius is around here somewhere...
jesse		You... you really should meet him.
jesse		Because... because... he's wise, a philosopher... he asks the big questions. Like how are you going to get through eternity? It's easier for us mortals. Life is brief, but for you...
jesse		I mean... what can you really do with immortality besides just slip from one day to the next, trapped in a void of meaninglessness, relieved only by your next victim? How do you not give in to despair and just wither away from boredom, hopelessness?
jesse		You know, it's like they say -- the more things change, the more they stay the same. For you that's forever, right?
jesse		You saved me.
lestat		Perhaps... So you know Marius...
jesse		I know a lot of things.
lestat		Not how to stay alive apparently.
jesse		Well I guess we've got that in common. Although I think I'm a little ahead in the race here.
lestat		 Well, I can fix that.
jesse		'Mine eyes dazzle, she died so young.' It's about the girl with the violin, isn't it?
lestat		Is it? And what else do you think you know?
jesse		 I... I think you're a lot like Marius, Lestat.
lestat		 Am I?   Tell me all about it.
jesse		You're... you're both artists.   He's a painter. You're a singer...
lestat		Is that so?   What I do is art, is it?
jesse		Yes... From nothing... you try to create... something beautiful...  ... out of the... the cold, dark wasteland of eternity...
lestat		 Something beautiful...
jesse		 But... but Marius isn't a rebel. You're different in that way. You don't want to hide, follow the laws, concealed in the shadows like some insect. You... you still want to walk with the living, don't you, Lestat?
lestat		Well, I'm not hiding now, am I?
jesse		No, but the only time you're not really alone is when you kill... But, Lestat, you can't help it... it's not your fault... He made you this way...
lestat		 Ah.    Poor, poor me...
lestat		Well, Talamascan, you're certainly a very clever librarian, aren't you?
lestat		 How sad, you people always trying to know the unknowable... So, was it a good read? My diary.
lestat		Talamasca's been following me for years. I've never known one to be so brave. Or is it just foolish?
jesse		I... I'm only an apprentice.
lestat		Go. I'm through with you. Your kind never satisfies my thirst.
jesse		Does anything, Lestat?
jesse		I mean, what's the point of coming into the light if not to have someone really know you?
jesse		You want the world to see you're real, don't you, Lestat? Don't you? Well, here I am!
lestat		You better just stick to your books, Talamascan. 'Cause you have it all wrong. I love all this. I delight in it. The dark, dreary world I went to sleep in has burnt itself out and been replaced by the 20th Century -- can you imagine my joy at waking up to discover such a world? It has outdistanced my wildest dreams of it. I scream of good and evil, and mortals stand and cheer. I adore being back in action... every moment, every single drop of it! Now consider yourself exceedingly lucky and go!
jesse		Lestat!
jesse		There's something you left out of your diary.
lestat		 What?
jesse		 You kept her violin, didn't you?
jesse		Hey, it's okay. I understand...  After all, it's only human.
jesse		Jesus Christ.
lestat		 Clever, clever librarian.
roger		I didn't see you come in.
lestat		No, Roger, you wouldn't have.
roger		So this house is fine I assume. To your liking?
lestat		Yes.   For the moment.
roger		We'll be here for what?    A week you think?
lestat		Well... I wouldn't unpack if I were you. ROGER  Right... the... girls you asked for. They're in the guest wing.
lestat		Ah.   Yes.
roger		Do you want me to take them home later?
lestat		No, thank you, Roger. I'll make sure they're taken care of.
lestat		I don't think we've met.
lestat		Of course you do.
lestat		I'm always hungry.
lestat		Vampires don't eat... food.
lestat		Mine eyes dazzle, she died so young.
lestat		It's a very old poem of mine.
lestat		Don't do that.
lestat		 I'm very ticklish.
lestat		I don't know.     Let's see.
jesse		You're right, David. The journal has everything in it.
jesse		David, listen...  I'm going to Los Angeles for the concert.
jesse		David, I... I talked to him... Look I'm sorry. But I... I have to see what's out there with my own eyes. I'm onto something. I just don't know what yet... I have to find out...
talbot		Jesse, you listen to me very, very carefully now. You are no longer seeing things clearly. Your emotions are clouding things.
jesse		It's not emotion. It's instinct... I'll return when I have my findings. Good-bye.
lestat		Marius!
lestat		They're... alive.
lestat		Would you like me to play for you?
marius		What have you done, Lestat? Lestat!
marius		 Lestat?
lestat		More!
marius		I don't think so, my little lord.
lestat		Let me go!
marius		No. You've drunk the purest blood. Seen the oldest of things -- far too much for one as young as you. You've been unconscious for days.
lestat		God, her blood is like liquid fire.  Who are they?
marius		She... she is your mother, my mother... Akasha, the Queen of all who are damned. And he is her King.
lestat		Release me!
marius		She made you quite powerful.  Don't make me use this!
lestat		Marius, please, just one more time. I felt the sun. The light, Marius, the light!
marius		Lestat, listen to me! I have watched over Akasha and her King for 2000 years! They must never awaken!
marius		Akasha and her King nearly drank this earth dry when they ruled over Egypt. They drank until they lost their will to drink. They became living statues. And yet Akasha still sustains the life force of all vampires. It is believed what happens to her, happens to all of us.
marius		If she were ever to rise, she would again desiccate the earth! She has no respect for anything except the taste of blood. Immortal and human alike...
lestat		You'll not stop me...
marius		I hear her blood in your voice... In all the years I've cared for them, not once have they moved...
lestat		Until tonight. And she chose me! Me! Never you! You'll not stop me!
marius		You are part of a great coven! You take responsibility for your kind!
lestat		 I must have more!
marius		I chose you for your bravery, but I was wrong. You know only selfishness. I can no longer trust you... It gives me no pleasure to look upon what I have created.
lestat		Marius!
lestat		Marius!    Please!
jesse		Lestat.
jesse		Akasha!
attendant		We've started our approach into L.A. You should fasten your seat belt.
lestat		I hate bedtime.
lestat		 Marius...!
marius		Lestat.
marius		It is good to see you, Lestat.
lestat		And you. Still wearing the old fashions, I see.
marius		Old habits die hard.
lestat		How did you manage to slip through the 1950s in red velvet?
marius		I slept.
lestat		Don't think you missed much.
marius		Elvis.
lestat		Elvis, yes.
marius		 You're bigger than he is now.
lestat		I'd say a few pounds lighter. Though, if you ever catch me wearing a white jumpsuit, you have my permission to slice off my head.
marius		If someone doesn't get to you first.
lestat		Live and let live.
marius		If it were only so simple, my son.
lestat		 How did you find me?
marius		You forget. We ancients have powers no ordinary vampires possess... And I know you. I remembered how you admired the medieval fortresses in the hilltowns of Lyon.  All you're missing is the moat and the cannons... which you may need.
lestat		Come, let me show you what it means to live in the light.
marius		 Impressive. Reminds me of mad old Druids running around chanting in the forest. Very primitive stuff.
lestat		Out there. My fans. Thousands and thousands. They worship me. Millions of arms reach out to embrace, beg me to come into their lives.
marius		It's what you've always wanted.
lestat		With all my black little heart.
marius		Do you think of anyone but yourself?
lestat		I only have myself.
marius		It may be time to get ready for some company.
lestat		What's that supposed to mean?
marius		Your music's woken a very old friend...
marius		Can't you hear it? Or is the applause all you can hear now?
marius		Akasha has risen. She has taken her King's blood. Absorbed his power. You've done it this time.
lestat		Good! I'm glad she's risen!     Let her come.
marius		Don't you understand?   You must stop this concert!
lestat		 200 years and the same broken record.
marius		No. Not the same! You've only known Akasha dormant. She too will find you. She is choosing her moment. She has come to destroy you, Lestat. And in her wrath, she will devour everything that moves. Mortal and vampire alike.
lestat		 Well then, it's every vampire for himself. Just the kind of rules I like. The rules you taught me.
lestat		Do you remember your first words to me, Marius? 'I am unknowable.'  I'd rather not exist at all than have to live eternally as a ghost.
marius		And you're taking everyone with you, you fool! We were once mortals, too. It is our heritage we protect!
lestat		 Such reverence for mortals! Then you should have left me as one!
marius		You're a monster.
lestat		 Said the vampire to his son.
akasha		Hello...
akasha		Hmmm... his scent is fading.     He was here too long ago...
vampire lover		You like him, love?
akasha		 He reminds me of someone I know.
vampire lover		All he's gonna remind you of soon is a pile of bones. We're gonna dismember him. Bleed him dry.
akasha		Really? Is that what you're going to do?
akasha		Then again, you could always do this...
akasha		Turn up the music!
akasha		 Oh, I do love the 21st Century.
mael		Marius, you've broken your oath. You were to watch over Akasha and Khayman. You are a great disappointment to me.
marius		Pandora, Armand, it's been a long time. Khayman, Maharet, to what do I owe this honor?
khayman		You have been summoned because of your errant child...
pandora		 He's quite the devil, isn't he?
armand		His music mocks us, Pandora!
pandora		His music moves my blood.
armand		Keep your amorous thoughts to yourself. His music is a threat to all vampires. We will let the covens dismember him at his concert.
mael		Yes.   It will set an example.
marius		I don't see how this solves things. This isn't thought through.
khayman		Marius, we understand your affection for Lestat, but your duty is to us!
khayman		We could always get rid of him right now.
mael		No. We will contact the covens. Let them know we condone the slaying. It will be better for all to see.
maharet		Wait. Never mind Lestat!   We have greater problems...
marius		 Maharet is right. It is Akasha we face now.
pandora		 Is it true, Maharet?   Has our Queen really risen!
maharet		Don't be so happy, Pandora. I knew Akasha when she walked this earth. I was her slave. I am now her enemy. I know what she is capable of.
armand		Yes. We've all felt her presence, even as she hides from us.  What does she want now?
maharet		She knows only one thing. Taking pleasure in destroying life. She is already killing the young ones to build her strength.
marius		She's sucked the life out of her King like a praying mantis. I sense she is getting closer.
maharet		She has come to destroy Lestat, but he will only whet her thirst more...
maharet		If we act together, we have a chance to destroy her.
maharet		Yes! We must destroy her immediately! If she is not stopped, I'm afraid of what will happen to the entire mortal world.
mael		But can she be destroyed? I am left to bear the scars of the last attempt on her life. She was dragged into the sun. She survived. But we almost didn't...
marius		What happens to our Queen happens to us. If Akasha dies, we die as well.
maharet		Then so be it! We must take that chance.
maharet		We must destroy Akasha. For the sake of humanity! We must find her. Now!
armand		But perhaps she has come to kill Lestat and then will go back to her slumber. That is our only hope.
pandora		 Yes. That's right. She and the covens will take care of that brat. We must go to the concert and pay our respects to our great Queen.
maharet		How? With your own throat! You've all been asleep too long! You're still dreaming.
marius		Maharet speaks the truth.   It is our only hope.
mael		No. Armand is right. We will go to the concert and first see what she does. There may be no need for action.
maharet		Then you go to the concert and you shall see!  And I thought the Ancients became wise with their years.
roger's pov		 A Goth girl on the street in front of a record store.
jesse's pov		 Roger's back is TO us as he talks to a Goth girl in a whisper.
roger		The... girls you asked for, Lestat. They're here, in the guest wing.
lestat		Ah.   Yes.
roger		I was uh... just gonna go catch a movie at the Chinese. I don't suppose you'd all want to...
lestat		No, thank you, Roger.   We'll entertain ourselves.
lestat		Perhaps you would like a tour of the place... first.
lestat		Roger... would you be so kind?
roger		 Sure. Right this way, girls.
lestat		Roger. Not that one.   Leave her to me...
lestat		You must be very keen to die.
lestat		The Talamascans have become quite stealthy. I didn't know infiltration was quite their style.
jesse		It's not. I... I came on my own.
lestat		How did you find me?
jesse		I've been tracking your manager for days...  Then I figured out you simply have to look the part.
lestat		Clever librarian... You should know, based on all your research, that groupies don't ever find their way out of here again.
jesse		I'm not a groupie...
lestat		Then why are you following me? What do you want?
jesse		 Are you granting wishes?
lestat		 Last wishes. What's yours?
jesse		Show me what it's like to be you. That's my last wish. Grant it, Lestat.
lestat		 I don't have time for this.
jesse		All a vampire has is time.
lestat		Maybe not.
jesse		 I understand why you're doing it. You have to be who you are, no matter what happens.
jesse		But how are you spending what may be your last night on Earth, Lestat? As you always have... Alone.
jesse		Don't kill me yet. Let's spend our last nights together. Share it with me.   Show me what it's like to be you.
lestat		You don't know what you're asking! I don't know what's in that librarian's head of yours, but it's not what you think.
jesse		That's right. You don't know what's in my head, Lestat. Do you want to?
lestat		I'll know when I kill you.
jesse		Gee, Lestat, that's a great way to get to know someone. Here. I'll give you a preview. Coming attractions. This is what you'll find.
jesse		I have this recurring dream that I'm a child and I'm living in this big house filled with vampires. And every night when I go to sleep, I wish to God the same thing... you know what that is, Lestat?
jesse		That I will have the dream again... Because in the dream I'm happy. And the dream is more real than my life... I don't know how, but I know you, Lestat... My life is a big mystery and you, you have the answer...
jesse		I can't go on pretending this life of mine is real. I can't live a lie... I'm just like you Lestat. We're the same...
lestat		 Are we? I seek the light.     You seek the shadows.
jesse		No. We're looking for exactly the same thing. You know it... Please. Show me.
lestat		Alright!
lestat		This may be painful for a mortal. You're still attached to your skin.
jesse		 I don't care.
lestat		Close your eyes.    Don't breathe.
jesse		Do that again!
lestat		And now for my next trick.
jesse		Did it hurt?
lestat		Yes. For just a moment. But as the pain is more intense for us, so is ecstacy.  You see, we love our victims.
jesse		Love?    I thought it was the blood.
lestat		No, although the taste is so rich and sweet. Love is the essence of the dark gift. The connection is so much more satisfying, brief as it is, than anything else.
lestat		As you drink, you feel the heart weakening... it struggles even though there's no hope. You feel the life slipping away, the flash of those brief years. The taste of mortality you can no longer experience... and it is beautiful...  No 'relationship,' no commingling can ever reach the heights of that experience.
lestat		 Your blood...
jesse		 Do you like it?
lestat		 Yes...
jesse		 Do it to me... Please... With your blood I'll know you...
jesse		I'll know everything...
lestat		You want to know everything. You want to see what it's like. Then come! I'll show you.
jesse		Is she alright?
lestat		Come closer, Jesse. You want to see? You want to know?
jesse		Lestat, no!
lestat		You see now? Are you ready?     Now do you want it?!
lestat		No.   Of course you don't.
lestat		Well I didn't grant your final wish.  It was an impossible wish to begin with. You see, I am unknowable.
jesse		Lestat!    Wait!
lestat		Good-bye, Talamascan.
young jesse		 Why can't I stay with you?! Please, Auntie Maharet!
maharet		I don't want you to go, but you must.
young jesse		Auntie, you're bleeding...
maharet		You must be with your own, my sweetest girl. I'll always be watching over you.
young jesse		I want to stay with you forever.
maharet		Forever is a very long time.
maharet		Hello, my princess.
jesse		Aunt Maharet?
jesse		You're a...?
maharet		Yes. Oh, Jesse, I've missed you so much, but I had to keep this from you.
jesse		Oh my God, this is why... I knew I was different. I knew --
maharet		 Come...
maharet		You are the most precious of my great family...
jesse		Am I...?
maharet		 No. You are not. I was once mortal, too. My sister died before her child was one year old. I took care of that child, and her children, and her children's children...
maharet		This is our family -- my way of coping with eternity. The labyrinth of life. The family teaches me the rhythms and passions of each age.
maharet		You are my most prized light. You are what keeps me connected to the world of the living.
maharet		When your parents died I took you to India to take care of you.
jesse		And something happened there.
maharet		I stopped it from happening.    And I will again.
maharet		Jesse, you must stay away from Lestat. You must forget all about him.
maharet		Yes, I know about your new friend. You think you love him, but it's not as you thought it would be.
jesse		I thought I was like him.
maharet		I know, but it is not who you are, not who you are meant to be. You have found that out now.
jesse		Lestat's all I can think about... I felt like I belonged with him. Now I know why...
maharet		Jesse, you must forget about him. You must trust me...
jesse		 I missed you so much, Aunt Maharet.
maharet		Me too.
maharet		You will go home to London in the morning.
jesse		But this is my home. This is where I belong. Why do you want to get rid of me so quickly?
maharet		Now is not the time to be here...
maharet		You were seeking answers. Now you have found them. The family is who you are.
maharet		You will go home to London tomorrow.
lestat		 Jesse.
vampire driver		Need a ride?
jesse		 Yeah.
marius		 Hello, David.
marius		I must show you my new paintings sometime.
pandora		 It's just like Nero's day.
maharet		Akasha will not be able to resist this...
roger		They're getting pretty worked up out there.
lestat		Come on, children.
lestat		I'm so glad I decided to rise...  After tonight, Death Valley will live up to its name!
lestat		You want more?!
crowd		Yes!
lestat		This one's for those who've come for me!
pandora		There are too many of them! They're going to dismember him.
armand		Good!
lestat		Get out of here!
jesse		Lestat!    Lestat!
marius		 Akasha.
maharet		She is here...
fire marshal		You don't have a permit for any of these stunts!
roger		I told you I don't know anything about it!
roger		Last time I work for a bloody vampire...
jesse		Lestat!    Lestat!
lestat		Akasha...
akasha		Why so surprised, my love?    You called, and I have come.
akasha		Never fear me, Lestat. Your wishes have all come true.
lestat		My wishes...?
akasha		You have yearned for a companion to share eternity. You have cried out to the world. I have answered your call.
akasha		You are so bold, like your music. It woke me. You live your life in the open, like I did long ago, when I had a King.
lestat		Had a King?
akasha		He's no more. You are my consort. I've kept you safe -- alive.
lestat		You?
akasha		You thought it was all you?  You have the ego of a king as well. I know you, Lestat. I know that you crave to have the world at your feet. I have come to give it to you.
akasha		Has your tongue lost its taste for blood?
lestat		 Never.
akasha		But you didn't kill the mortal girl.
akasha		Instead you kissed her.   Now kiss me.
akasha		Be my King. Forget about everything else.
akasha		What's your answer?
lestat		Can we try that again?
lestat		Show me the world...
maharet		We see now what Akasha means to do. Rule as Queen again.  This is why we must fight Akasha!
maharet		For the sake of all mortals. She must be stopped, or the mortal world will end.
mael		But is there a way?   We don't know.
khayman		When she opens herself to give her blood, she is vulnerable.
marius		Then we weaken her. Drain her of almost all her blood, but leave her just one drop.
maharet		We can't take that chance.    We must finish her.
armand		If she dies, we all die.
pandora		We're damned no matter what happens.
maharet		Perhaps.
jesse		And what about Lestat?
maharet		Lestat has joined with Akasha. He is lost to us now. He is never coming back.
jesse		I don't believe that.
lestat		Where are we?
akasha		We are home.
lestat		You live here?
akasha		We live everywhere and anywhere we choose. The world is our garden.
lestat		So warm...  ... their blood...
akasha		... yes...
lestat		... they're mortal...
akasha		... of course. They serve the living goddess, and her consort. They find you beautiful. You are a god in their eyes.
akasha		Behold our Kingdom.
lestat		Why?
akasha		 Why not?
lestat		This is the reason you have risen?
akasha		They believed in nothing, now they are nothing. But you and I will change all that. We will give the world something to believe in again.
akasha		Come, my King.      We have a score to settle.
marius		She comes...
akasha		My children. It warms my blood to see you all gathered... plotting against me.
maharet		Akasha.
akasha		Maharet. You will address my King first...
jesse		Lestat!
jesse		What has she done to you?
lestat		Made me see.
marius		Lestat... step aside.
lestat		Never.    She is my Queen.
maharet		Akasha. The world has changed since you reigned.
akasha		Then we shall change it back. Humans are animals, brute creatures. Their destruction can only make sense.
maharet		We've found other ways to co- exist.
akasha		Yes. In the shadows. In silence. In shame. For what? For respect of mortals? They are nothing to us. They are only... food.
akasha		Poor Maharet. Still trying to hold onto what I took from you.
marius		Akasha, please...
akasha		 You think you can change my will? I'm tired of this discussion. Join me, or die.
maharet		I will not.
marius		I will not.
akasha		I want to hear it from every one of you. What will it be?
akasha		Don't tell me, you have feelings for these ridiculous mortals!
akasha		Do you love me?
lestat		Yes...
akasha		Prove it. Kill her.
lestat		She's nothing to me.
akasha		Just the same, I'd like you to kill her. For me.  I've had enough of this 'great family.' It's time to end it.
maharet		You will not touch her!
akasha		You still think to challenge me, Maharet?
maharet		I beg you, spare this child.
akasha		Now.
jesse		It's all right, Maharet.
jesse		It's what I want.   I am ready.
akasha		 How sweet...
akasha		Good-bye, great family.
akasha		Now, my children, remember your real family! Or else.
lestat		But, My Queen, you've forgotten my reward!
akasha		That's right. My King, you've just earned your crown.
akasha		You see how he obeys.    You will or you will all die!
akasha		That's enough, Lestat.
akasha		Lestat.    Enough.   Stop!
akasha		You kill me, you kill yourselves.
maharet		Wait, Lestat! You must stop!
khayman		 We survived!
lestat		I left you one drop, my love. Drink deep and live.
jesse		I thought I'd lost you...
lestat		Drink, my love.
lestat		I will never leave you again.
jesse		Maharet...
maharet		My child, let me look at you... You are finally happy. It is as it should be now... I will watch over you always.
armand		 She took Akasha's last drop, took Akasha's death into herself. Behold, our Queen... our new mother...
jesse		Is she... dead?
khayman		No, she will live forever. She sleeps. She sleeps, and dreams of us.
marius		My Queen, I will watch over you always.
talbot		Jesse.     My God...
jesse		 David, this is Lestat.
talbot		How do you do?
lestat		Charmed, I'm sure.
jesse		I told you I'd return with my findings. Here they are.
talbot		But please, sit down. You'll have to excuse me... it's just so... so...
lestat		Unexpected?
talbot		Strangely, no...
jesse		Please don't be sad. I'm where I belong. I'm happy now.
talbot		Excuse me for asking but...
jesse		 What's it like?
talbot		Yes.
jesse		Do you want to find out?
talbot		Me?... No. I'm too old to live forever.
jesse		Well, if you ever should change your mind... Oh. I have a present for you. From an old friend.
jesse		And Marius sent a message. You were right. He doesn't go to the Dorchester. But he's gonna be at Claridge's later...
jesse		Well, I guess this is good-bye.
talbot		Yes.   Take care of her, Lestat.
lestat		Always.
talbot		Good-bye, Jesse.
jesse		Good-bye, dear friend.
lestat		Shall we go get a drink, love?
****Dialogues from script :RKO_281.txt****

welles		Nonsense
welles		Forget it-
mank		Nope.
welles		Not for me.
mank		Right-
mank		Like a bug.
carole lombard		Houdini mice.
carole lombard		 You fight many bulls there in New York, Orson?
welles		None.
marion		 Ooh, dish.
marion		I can't
welles		Jesus
mank		Sorry.
carole lombard		 It's gonna be fine, Orson. You're gonna do great.
carols lombard		Sure
welles		Mank-
mank		Fuck you
mank		I can't do it. okay?! I drink too much -- I drink all the fucking time and I don't have it anymore. All that is over for me--
welles		How?
welles		Why her?
louella		Huh?
welles		We're using-
mank		What?
mank		The title?
schaefer		CITIZEN KANE
welles		Pardon?
welles		Jesus
schaefer		For the title
welles		Again.
welles		Again.
welles		You bet.
phone voice		Yeah
mank		Uh huh.
welles		I'm sorry.
mank		I don't care.
welles		Yeah
welles		Okay
welles		Cut. Print
toland		We done?
welles		Yeah.
secretary's voice		Yes, sir
schaefer		Hearst?
louella		Uh-huh
schaefer		Oh god
hearst		How so?
louella		 The drinking.
louella		Thank you, sir. She begins to leave
louella		Sir? 
louella		Sir?
hearst		 Please be quiet.
louella		He lied to me
louella		I want blood
welles		The ad..
hearst		Louis
mayer		Randolph!
mayer		Over at RKO?
mayer		Yeah
marion		How bad is it?
marion		Pops
marion		How much?
marion		How much?
hearst		125 million.
marion		 We're 125 million dollars in debt?
hearst		Yes.
welles		Yes!
toland		He's Christ?
welles		I'm Christ
welles		Christ.
hearst		Marion--
louella		We got Jews
mayer		How?
willicombe		Miss Davies--
willicombe		It's finished
mank		Shoot
mank		No, I am not
mank		No
mank		Stop it
hearst		I wanted it
carole lombard		And he did.
carole lombard		Sure
carole lombard		Uh-huh
marion		Yes.
marion		Thank you-
shop owner		 My Lord. . .
schaefer		Recognize
welles		It's ... sad
harry cohn		Goddamn right.
mayer		David-
jack warner		 Your son-in-law meshuaena.
mayer		It came.
schaefer		To do what?
mayer		Yes
mayer		Yes
schaefer		Get out
schaefer		Get out.
mank		Kinda.
welles		Do you?
schaefer		Herman.
welles		Mank!
mank		Shit
welles		George...
****Dialogues from script :Rachel_Getting_Married.txt****

walter		I want my fucking Zippo now! Walter starts yanking at his hair.
rosa		Walter, that is a behavior...
walter		 Fuck you!
rosa		And you are making a choice. Her cell phone rings...
rosa		 Hold on...Hello?
walter		God!
kym		Don't you get it yet, Waldo? She's making a choice not to give you your lighter because you'll torch the Self-Help library again.
walter		I'm Walter. Kill anybody recently? Run anybody over with a fucking car?
2.		 1   CONTINUED:                                                1
rosa		 That them?
kym		Yes. Finally.
walter		You're not letting her get behind the wheel are you? Are you?
rosa		Walter, you are only responsible for yourself.  This is all your stuff?
kym		You know you never gave me your cell number.
rosa		 Good luck.
kym		Oh my god. Here you are. I thought you were going to abandon me in rehab. It's 12:30. You guys are half an hour late. I've been standing here with these lunatics. You look so great. Paul offers his hand to Rosa.
paul		Hello. I'm Paul Buchman.
3.		 1   CONTINUED:                                                 1
rosa		I'm Rosa. We met last time you came up.
paul		 Of course, of course.
kym		Let's go, let's go. Where is everybody? CAROL, a handsome woman in her 40's, waves from the car.
kym		 Hey Carol. How are ya?
carol		Hello Kym.
kym		So where's Rachel? Carol, where's Rachel? Kym slides into the back seat as Paul loads the car.
carol		Getting everything ready at the house.
paul		There is so much going on at the house I can't tell you. You know your sister's doing all of it herself.
kym		 My sister is bending the environment to her will? Really?
paul		No wedding planners or anything like that. Just her and Sidney and a lot of their friends. She is so thrilled you're here. Is that everything, sweetheart?
4.		 1   CONTINUED:                                                  1
kym		 Yah. Can we go?
carol		Is there anyone you want to say goodbye to?
kym		God no.
kym		So are all these busy young wedding helpers staying at the house? Because after eight months of constantly revolving cell mates and crazy people...
paul		You weren't in a cell, Kym...
kym		...AND groups groups GROUPS...
paul		...And nobody was crazy, nobody was in a rubber room...
kym		...I was looking forward to a little privacy for once.
carol		The only extra person staying at the house is Emma, who's actually been staying in your old room. But she can move, I guess.
kym		Rachel and Emma. Oh, great. How relaxing.  
5.		 2   CONTINUED:                                                2 KYM  The only two people on the planet less capable of delegating than Hannibal! On the eve of a wedding! Nachtmare.
carol		Nachtmare?
paul		It's a nightmare so bad it's in German.
kym		Rachel must be totally freaking out. Is she too tense?...
paul		She's a wigwam!
kym		 ...Is she eating? Or are all her latent food issues rearing their heads? Is she hoarding Snickers and Cool Whip under the bed like in high school? She never did put that one to sleep.
paul		 I don't think that that's a problem for her.
kym		No offense, Dad, but you never thought that was a problem for her. I'm kidding. It'll be great to see her. Foodies are the worst, though. They never get it together. There were six of them on my floor in the hospital and you could never get into the bathroom. They would cry at the chocolate pudding and one of
6.		 2   CONTINUED:                                               2
paul		You'll see her and Andrew at the rehearsal dinner tonight.
kym		Can we stop at the 7/11 please? I feel nauseous. I need something to drink.
carol		I brought you a Diet Coke.
7.		 2   CONTINUED:                                                  2
kym		I prefer Pepsi from the fountain.
counter girl		I saw you on COPS. Kym appears not to have heard. She pockets her change and leaves.
kym		I'll do it, Dad.
kym		Oh my god, you are just mi-nute!
rachel		Kymmie!
emma		 You can't smoke in here-- Rachel and Kym squeal and embrace. Rachel is slightly awkward as Emma frantically tries to keep the billowing fabric from combustion.
kym		Ow!
rachel		I have pins all over me. You look great!
kym		I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat. All the vending machines. Look at you, missy! I'd swear to god you were puking again!
9.		 8   CONTINUED:                                                8
rachel		Hah!
emma		Kym!
kym		Emma!  No seriously, you're so tiny it's like you're Asian. Dad wants us to sleep in the same room so you'll be able to watch me while he's asleep and I won't sneak out of the house and blow dealers and shoot heroin.
rachel		Dad did not say "blow dealers."
kym		I told him I'd just sleep in Ethan's room.
rachel		You can always shoot up in the tree house.
emma		Kym, I'm not remotely surprised you're starting your drama already, however it's Rachel's wedding and this week it's about her.
kym		Emma, you still have your tiny core of rage! What a relief.
kym		So are you an actual shrink yet? Even though you're like twelve years old?
emma		Psychology. Not psychiatry. You know the difference, right?
10.		 8   CONTINUED:                                                8
kym		You should prescribe something soothing for Emma. Like Vicodin.
rachel		I will have my PhD. in a year and a half. And psychologists don't get prescription pads, right Kym?
kym		They do in Guam.
rachel		Would you please put that out? Emma designed this dress and there's forty-seven yards of it and I'll go up like the Hindenburg. Kym takes a last drag even though she's down to the filter, then flushes the butt down the toilet in the tiny bathroom.
kym		 Since when are you a designer, Emma?
emma		A while.
rachel		She has this great little boutique in Greenwich. She says things like "you need a fabulous jersey pant."
kym		That's so great. I think I heard that. Isn't this your fifth incarnation or something? Weren't you an actress? All the N.E.D.'s in the hospital were actresses...
emma		N.E.D.s?
rachel		Non-specified Eating Disorder.
kym		...they were constantly doing leg lifts under the sheets.
11.		 8   CONTINUED:                                                8
rachel		Angela Paylin is coming to the wedding.
kym		 I ate so much cookie dough and did so many whip-its with Angela Paylin.
rachel		I know. And she confessed to you her secret Elvis Stoyko fantasy. I spied on you.
kym		Oh my god...
emma		Elvis Stoyko the figure skater?
rachel		In her fantasy, she was wearing her hair up and very serious, responsible eyeglasses, because she was a world renowned judge at the Winter Olympics for Men's Figure Skating. And Elvis Stoyko was skating in the finals to "Could It Be Magic" for the gold medal. And just when Barry Manilow is singing "Now/ Now/ Now and hold on fast..." there's this electric connection between them and he stops in the middle of his triple lutz...axel...
kym		And he skates over to the judges table, all panting and sweaty, with his spangly Neil Diamond shirt open to the chest...
rachel		There is silence as he stops in front of her, their eyes lock, and he reaches for her hand... and Angela takes it!
kym		To the roar of the crowd and the shock of the Olympic judges!
rachel		And he gets disqualified but he doesn't care!
emma		Where'd she get the skates from?
kym		I should call her right this second. Is she really coming? Who are all these energetic young people decorating the house?
emma		She's got everyone she knows pulling elf duty.
kym		 What about me? What am I doing? Rachel and Emma exchange a look.
kym		Hello?
rachel		Well, I think you'll be assisting on floral detail. I want everything all drippy and luxurious and Mom's a little bit tasteful--
kym		--Mom's in charge of flowers?
rachel		--and I don't want to upset her.
emma		 And you're such a diplomat.
13.		 8   CONTINUED:                                                 8
kym		I am. I'm like Kofi Annan. In rehab they said I was the maternal hub of my peer group. I was always the referee for softball.
kym		I was. I was the only one who could convince the methamphetamine freaks that no one was chasing them when they ran around the bases.
emma		It's softball. Someone was chasing them.
kym		Whatever. They have trust issues in the first place. I'm going downstairs to find Olive and get some unconditional love. Kym swans out of the room.
kym		Anyway, I'm doing some lighting. I already got the candles and everything. Rachel and Emma share a look.
kym		Speaking of dawgs, when am I going to meet this fiancee of yours anyway?
paul		I'm making hot dogs and hungabungas! Who wants what?!
rachel		It's too hot!
emma		I don't eat gluten, Paul!
paul		What don't you eat?!
emma		Gluten!
paul		Where's Kym? Kym appears, down the back stairway, behind Paul, not shouting...
kym		Here.
rachel		Besides I'm in my dress!
15.		 12   CONTINUED:                                                  12
paul		Ooo! Can I see?!
rachel/emma		No!
paul		Okay, okay!
paul		Kymmie, what can I make you?
kym		Actually there's a meeting I have to make. And I have to pee in a cup. And register as a general biohazard.
paul		I'll drive you.
kym		 Just tell me which car I should take. Paul doesn't say anything. Carol floats to Paul's side.
kym		Which car?
paul		Would you do me a favor, Kymmie...?
kym		I have a license...
paul		You wouldn't believe my insurance. And I'm not... that comfortable. Could we figure something else out?
15a.		 13   CONTINUED:                                        13
kym		Ow!
kym		Hello? Hello?
kym		Hi. I'm here to pee in a cup.
nurse		 Someone will be right with you.
kym		Okay. I'm trying to get to a meeting.
nurse		The meetings are over in the other building.
kym		I know that.
nurse		Someone will be right with you. Have a seat. Several people are waiting in chairs. They look at Kym.
kym		Piss!
kym		Shit!
kym		 COCKSUCKER!
attractive guy		Only once. My dealer. I was really broke. The room breaks up. Kym struggles to rearrange the fallen chairs. She is pissed.
attractive guy		Let's see...that was Tuesday...
paul		Carol, she's here!
kym		Where did you think I was?
paul		I made you a sandwich, sweetheart! Meatloaf!
rachel		Kymberly!
rachel		No. You guys are not getting my design concept.  
19.		 22   CONTINUED:                                               22 RACHEL  I want every single light to represent a different one night stand during the misspent youth of Kris Kringle before he stopped whoring around and became Santa Claus.
sidney		Oh. I thought you said Satan Claus.
kieran		I thought she said Panty Hose. Or Panda Claws.
emma		Pandas are endangered.
rachel		I know. We're having an endangered Panda fleeing for its life for the ice sculpture. Or impaling itself on some bamboo. Kym! This is Sidney Williams, my betrothed. Sidney, meet my sister, Kym.
kym		Oh my god. You're black.  Sorry I called him a dawg.
rachel		That's fine.
sidney		No biggie.
kym		You don't look like a record producer. You're supposed to have a hapless lackey next to you with an umbrella.
sidney		Usually I do, but Mom's out simonizing my car. Funny, you don't look like Lucifer's Cupbearer.
kym		 I got a haircut. Kym gives Emma a look. Emma smiles sweetly.
20.		 22   CONTINUED:                                               22
rachel		And this is Best Man Kieran.
kym		Hey.
kieran		Hi there.
kieran		Well, that was so wrong --
kym		Gee, thanks!
kieran		No, believe me, that was so lovely, LOVELY! But in the program -- as you know -- and we just heard earlier today in fact --
kym		It is kind of lurid, isn't it? The best man and the maid of honor... furtively slipping off to the coal bin to have it off while the rest of the wedding party labors away at preparations for the big event.
21.		 23   CONTINUED:                                        23
kieran		I thought...isn't Emma going to be playing that role?
kym		What?
kieran		"Maid of Honor"?
kym		Oh.
kieran		I think I heard that was the plan.
rachel		Isn't the lilac fabulous? You look like a freesia.
kym		 I love the grey.
emma		We're all wearing lilac.
kym		 Look at this. I love this. It's like a cloud.
kym		You guys know how I am. I never wear lilac.
emma		It's good to have a principle. Kym ignores her.
rachel		You wore a lilac sweater with a cat face on it on the cover of Seventeen Magazine when I was at Fat Camp.
kym		Sure, but I got paid for that and I was on horse tranquilizers. So why aren't I the Maid of Honor? Why is Emma the Maid of Honor?
rachel		Because.
23.		 24   CONTINUED:                                               24
kym		What does that mean?
rachel		I wasn't entirely sure when you were coming or even if you'd make it.
rachel		I wasn't sure if you'd have time for a fitting.
kym		Bullshit. It's a sari. You take a bolt of cloth and wrap it around you. Jesus Christ I've been home one day and I can't get a straight answer out of anybody.
rachel		What are you talking about?
kym		I'm talking about Dad offering me food every ten seconds...
rachel		Dad offers Irish Hunger Strikers food every ten seconds.
kym		No. He has to know where I am and what I'm doing all the time because he has never resolved his own trust issues.
emma		That's odd.
kym		Shut up.
emma		Blow me.
rachel		Oh, leave Dad alone.
24.		 24   CONTINUED:                                               24
kym		I'd love to but he won't let me. I feel him watching me all the time. And Carol and you guys too.
emma		I know I have nothing better to think about.
kym		Everybody's looking at me like I'm the visiting sociopath. What are you people waiting for me to do? Burn the house down? They both look at her.
kym		That was a mattress fire and it wasn't even at home! It was on a sleep over! God! I should just get HAZMAT tattooed on my forehead for you people.
rachel		Stop! You're like a harpy. Is being my "Maid of Honor" this important to you? I didn't think you gave a shit.
kym		How could you fucking say that to me?
rachel		Jesus. Emma!
emma		What?
rachel		Emma, would you be horribly offended and hurt if I asked you to step down as...  ..."Maid of Honor?"
emma		Yes.
25.		 24   CONTINUED:                                               24
kym		Now Emma's got another reason to hate me. Like she needed one.
emma		Is it what you want?
rachel		Not really.
emma		Fine. The crown is yours, First Runner Up.
kym		Thank you, Emma. No, thank you.
emma		It's not about you.
kym		It's about sisterhood.
emma		Hooray for sisterhood.
kym		Sisterhood conquers all.
rachel		And bludgeons all and pillages all and leaves all for dead.
kym		 So the gray is not an option?
25a.		 25   CONTINUED:                                                  25
26.		 25   CONTINUED:                                               25
kym		I don't know anybody at what's obviously the loser end of the table. Can I have your Chana Masala?
rachel		You've known most of those people since the eighth grade. You always pretend you don't know people.
27.		 26   CONTINUED:                                                  26
emma		Is it because you owe them money?
kym		Where's Mom? Where's our mother? How could she not be here already? I haven't even seen her since I've been home.
sidney		She called a few times. She's "running a little late but should be here soon."
kym		  GOD!!!!
emma		Kieran would you like some more Saag Paneer?
kieran		No thanks. Is there any krill?
kieran		Just kidding.
kym		I can't believe Mom would be late for my release back into the wild.
emma		And here I was thinking tonight was about Rachel!
sidney		Rach, I forgot to tell you, Carol got the helium tanks.
kym		The words "Carol" and "helium" somehow...
rachel		Aren't there some rules about helium tanks?
28.		 26   CONTINUED:                                               26
kym		 She wouldn't have any idea what to do with a helium tank.
sidney		Only on public property. I think.
kieran		Huge liability.
kym		You're a lawyer?
kieran		Was. For about five minutes.
kym		Say something legal.
kieran		Tort.
kym		So what do you do now?
kieran		I help Sidney out with the business side of his stuff.
kym		Sweet.
rachel		Here's Mom. The girls clamber up. Kym brushes curry off Rachel's shirt. ABBY, the girl's mom, and ANDREW, her husband, enter the dining room. Abby is a beautiful, wise woman in her fifties. Elegant, ladylike and graceful. Andrew looks foxy in his Abby-selected Armani, but he has the shoulders and knuckles of a heavyweight. As the girls approach, Abby acknowledges Paul across the room but makes no move to go beyond an exchange of long distance little waves and tight smiles.
abby		 Hello, darling.
29.		 26   CONTINUED:                                                26
abby		Kym! Did you get my note?
abby		You look beautiful.
kym		I'm fat. Rehab makes you fat.
abby		Nonsense. You girls.
andrew		Hiya Kym. You look great! Hey Rachel!
rachel		Mom, where have you been? Is everything okay?
kym		Wow. We were wondering if you got the dates scrambled.
abby		Yes, everything is absolutely fine now.
kym		Thank god. What a relief! Now the party can really get started.
kym		 So Mom, you look great.
abby		Darling, can you smoke that in here?
29a.		 26   CONTINUED:                                           26
kym		It's a private party, Mom. How's grandma? Still surly and irascible?
30.		 26   CONTINUED:                                               26
abby		Oh, you know how she is. She sends her love.
kym		Great. Same.
abby		Honey, you should really put that out. It's not right. You know that.
kym		Fine.
kieran		 I've known Sidney most of my life. He personifies many of life's grandest cliches, even as he breathes fresh life into most of them. He has never, ever "ceased to amaze me," and only in the best of ways. The magnitude of his artistry and his business acumen are matters of public record and delight. He's been a great friend "through thick and thin," and sometimes it's gotten very, very thin -- but he "stood by me" at all times, so it is my privilege and honor to stand by him on this profound occasion... TIME CUT -- Emma rises and bangs her glass with her spoon. It shatters.
rachel		You're paying for that, Emma.
emma		Of course. I'd like to make a toast to the happy couple because I want to come visit them in Hawaii.
30a.		 27   CONTINUED:                                           27 EMMA  Sidney what's the name of that place again?
sidney		Humuu-humuu Nukku-nukuu...
kieran		A-Pu-Aa-Aa.
31.		 27   CONTINUED:                                               27
kym		 You're moving to Hawaii?
rachel		Sidney's recording studio is there. Kym, stung, exhales a plume of smoke.
emma		I've known the bride her entire life. Not biblically, except for that one time we french kissed at Evan Yassky's party in the ninth grade.
sidney		Film! I want film! Whoops and hollers.
emma		Commence embarrassing story.
rachel		That wasn't it?
emma		Rach, do you remember the time I was teaching you to drive in the Wagoneer and you sideswiped that taxi driver and knocked off his side mirror?
rachel		I have no memory of that whatsoever.
emma		Do you remember trying to outrun him and leading him on a high speed chase across 96th street?
rachel		Gotta say no.
32.		 27   CONTINUED:                                               27
emma		Well I would like to share with everyone that Miss Rachel-before she got her license or even had any idea how to drive- out maneuvered an irate, screaming cab driver across 96th street to the East river, handily avoiding two EMT guys loading an old lady on a gurney, while at the same time, applying Cocofudge Lip Gloss in the rearview mirror.
emma		Wait, wait. She actually got the number of one of the E.M.T guys and went out with him. Twice.
kym		 Was that the guy with the peroxide hair? Abby, not looking at her daughter, shushes her.
emma		Anyway, when the taxi driver finally caught up with us, Rachel talked him down from his Middle Eastern fury in pretend Farsi, and ended up using his radio thing to call his dispatcher and recommend this guy for a commendation.
rachel		Mahamoud! Such a nice man.
emma		We were driving so fast! It was one of the more exhilarating moments in my life...sadly...but I knew that Miss Rachel would make it okay. So here's to you, my dear, dear friend. A woman who can drive fast, pick up a paramedic, make up languages and get you home in one piece. Sidney, you are a lucky bastard.
sidney		Hear hear.
33.		 27   CONTINUED:                                                  27
rachel		Where? Where?
kym		 Relax, it's seltzer. Low giggles.
34.		 27   CONTINUED:                                                27  KYM  So I spent a lot of time calling up people who barely remembered me - who barely remembered anything - and apologizing to them for bouncing a check or passing out in the bathtub and flooding their house, or otherwise involving them in sordid activities they were desperately trying to forget. I had to call this one girl who was, I think, fourteen, but I couldn't talk to her because her Mom took out a restraining order.
35.		 27   CONTINUED:                                               27
kym		 I'm exhausted. Is there any watermelon?
carol		Let me see.
rachel		 Nice apology.
kym		What?
rachel		 Nice apology.
kym		I was toasting you and I was making amends. It's one of the Steps. It's important.
rachel		I know what the Steps are.
36.		 30   CONTINUED:                                               30
rachel		I learned them in school, and I've visited you in various facilities, Kym.
kym		Oh, god. Dad?
rachel		Amends. Noun. Often followed by 'for'. Offset a disability or frustration by development in another direction. Rachel blinks at her sister.
kym		 Yes?
rachel		You've never said anything to me, that's remotely apologetic. Yet, all of a sudden, at my wedding dinner, in front of everybody, you decide to grace us all with your development?
kym		Christ. I just got here. Carol hands Kym a slice of watermelon.
carol		Here. Anybody else?
rachel		"Hey everybody! And guests! Just in case you might be thinking about something else for five minutes, like, I don't know, my sister's wedding-- they just cut me loose!  
37.		 30   CONTINUED:                                               30 RACHEL  I'm a loose cannon, is that hysterical? Anyone for some rehab humor? Because I'm really fine with acknowledging my disease. And now watch me be really selfless, and weave a lovely blanket apology to my sister for being a tad out of her loop." Rachel giggles.
kym		 You're so cynical. Dad, since when has she been this cynical?
paul		She's making an effort, Rachel.
rachel		An effort. That's what it was? Because I think she presumes that since everything has always revolved around her disease, everything else is going to revolve around her recovery. That's what I think.
paul		Rachel. She just got home.
rachel		Again.
kym		I had no idea you were so angry, doctor.
rachel		I'm not.
paul		Kymmie, your sister's got a lot on her plate. She's uptight about...
rachel		I'm not uptight, Dad.
38.		 30   CONTINUED:                                               30
paul		She's meeting Sidney's folks for the first time, there's menus, there's all that live music, you're home, there's a thousand things to worry about.
carol		Absolutely, a wedding will take it right out of you, boy.
paul		Yeah, it would be so lovely if we could all just...
kym		 You people need to purge. You people really should go to Nar-Anon or something. I mean it.
carol		Oh my lord. Kym, we have gone through Nar-Anon, baby. You know that.
rachel		 You people? You mean the people in this room? Your family?
kym		All of you people living in this little world of judgement and paranoia and mistrust. I can feel it every second. At the slightest sign of ingratitude or absence of atonement it's like the freaking Salem Witch Trials around here. I might as well be...
paul		 Don't even start...
carol		 Nobody can make you feel any way unless you let them, Kym.
39.		 30   CONTINUED:                                               30
kym		Thank you Carol, for your inevitable pearl of wisdom, but you people are my family. You people make me feel like shit a hundred times a day. You try living under Dad's constant monitoring for five minutes and see how you like it.
paul		What constant monitoring?
kym		"I'll drive you!" "Carol, she's back!" "Don't sleep here, sleep there." "Here. Eat this." Dad, you're obsessed.
rachel		Please. That's hardly news. You may not know this...sure you do...the only way to engage Dad in any meaningful communication is to start the conversation with your name. "Have you heard from Kym? How's Kym?" It resuscitates him. It jars him into the moment. Like an alarm.
paul		That's unfair, Rachel. And completely untrue.
rachel		And she's even worse! "Dad, you're never going to believe this, but I lost the car again." "Dad, you're never going to believe this, but that check you sent me never showed up and my landlord hates me." "Dad, can somebody meet me downstairs with cab fare and you're never going to believe this but I need to go to the emergency room and my neighbor's suing me and my checkbook got stolen!"
kym		Gee, Rach, sounds like you have some paternal/sibling issues to work through.
40.		 30   CONTINUED:                                               30
rachel		Are you kidding? The two of you are like a double helix of crises. In the language of psychology one could say you both suffer from acute boundary issues.
paul		Rachel! It's nice that you're getting your Ph.D--
rachel		 --Oh god--
paul		--but don't be patronizing. It's ugly. It doesn't become you.
rachel		How come she gets to spout off about paternal issues, but god forbid I should even reference the "boundary thing," even though I actually know what I'm talking about?
kym		 Hello? By the way? I'm not in crisis. I haven't been in crisis for a year.
rachel		You just got out of rehab!
kym		Why is this so difficult for you people to understand? It's like you're not happy unless I'm in some kind of desperate situation. You have no idea what to do with me unless I'm desperate. God. Why am I the only one who's willing to say this stuff?
rachel		Oh, poor you. You're so much more evolved in your suffering. You know what? Your suffering is not the most important thing in the world to everybody!  
41.		 30   CONTINUED:                                                 30 RACHEL  There are billions and billions and billions of people, in nations all over the world, who never even think about you! Other people have lives! We have lives! I have a life! I'm in school. I'm getting married. I'm...
kym		What?
paul		What?!!
rachel		I'm pregnant.
everybody		Congratulations! Oh my god! Etc!!! Paul hugs Rachel and kisses her hair. Sidney and Kieran hug. Emma hugs Rachel and kisses Sidney. Hugging all around. Kym is pissed. Paul grabs Kym and Rachel, and hugs both daughters at once. Rachel and Kym's faces are mushed right next to each other. Kym is impatient and stiff in the dreaded double mush.
kym		That is so unfair!
paul		 When did you find out?
sidney		Roughly about the day before we decided to get married.
rachel		I can barely believe it myself!
42.		 30   CONTINUED:                                              30 PAUL  How long? How much pregnant? Did you tell your mother?
rachel		We told her at dinner.
sidney		She was so happy--
kym		Wait! Stop! You can't just drop that tectonic bit of information into a completely separate conversation, Rachel. You can't do that!
rachel		Kym, you're going to have a niece!
sidney		Or a nephew!
kym		Oh, god. Of course I'm happy for you. But you can't tell me when we're talking like this. It's a total set-up!
rachel		I am so fucking exhausted.
kym		Dad, will you tell her I'm happy for her?
rachel		I just...I need to go to bed. Sidney?
sidney		Yeah, okay. Great idea. I'm beat too.
kym		 You're leaving? In the middle of this conversation?
rachel		Yes.
43.		 30   CONTINUED:                                                30
paul		Kymmie, she's pregnant. She's exhausted.
kym		Of course. Fair enough. I'm off to raid the medicine cabinet.
sidney		She's not serious?
carol		Oh, Rachel darling, and Sidney, I couldn't be happier.
sidney		She wasn't serious, was she?
paul		Do either of you want anything? A sandwich? You must be hungry. There's cold Saagwala and a little Aloo Gobi left over?
rachel		No thanks, Dad. I really am pretty sleepy.
paul		You're pretty everything! He mushes her face and kisses her cheek. Then he mushes Carol's face.
carol		Holy cow. What a day. I think I've aged. I mean it.  Would you mind if I went to bed, darling?
paul		 Of course not. I'll be up, Carol. I'm just going to load the dishwasher.
44.		 30   CONTINUED:                                                  30
carol		Let me help, it'll be quicker.
paul		Don't mess with the King.
carol		Okay,okay. Hands in the air, Carol leaves the room.
kieran		Wow. That's it for me too, you guys. Good night everybody. Kieran lays a manly, buddy hug on Sidney.
kieran		Congratulations, man.
sidney		Thanks, my friend.
rachel		I've never been so tired in my life.
rachel		Dad?
paul		Yes, sweetheart?
rachel		I hope it's okay, I told Mom at dinner. About the baby.
paul		Of course, lamb chop. I'm so happy! I'm going to be a grandpa!
45.		 30   CONTINUED:                                               30
rachel		I wish Ethan were here.
paul		I know, sweetheart. Me too.  KIERAN'S VOICE OFF That went well.
kym		That was such a set-up.
kieran		She probably didn't realize she was doing it.
kym		Ha! She's such an operator. Now I'm the bad guy again. Or still.
kieran		They're lucky to have you.
kym		Thank you! Otherwise they'd have to pay attention to their own suspicious lives. Nobody actually wants me to actually change, you know. What would they obsess about? I'm like a blessing.
kieran		 No argument from me.
46.		 31   CONTINUED:                                                 31
kym		Dad had an actual "Blueprint for Rehabilitative Success" at my last intervention. On graph paper. He goes all out with the response, my dad.
kieran		Not unlike this great nation in which we live.
kym		Meanwhile an ex-heterosexual ex-boy friend of mine actually rang the door once and tells my mother, "Kym is sitting in her apartment? With the shades drawn? Doing all this heroin and cocaine? And I think she's going to, like, die?" And Mom smiles and says "Thank you" like he was speaking in Sanskrit.
kieran		You can't actually speak in Sanskrit.
kym		Exactly! I nodded out into the poached salmon at Dad's wedding two years ago and he told Carol he thought it was jet lag.
kieran		I did that in soup once. It made such a mess.
rachel		Look how exquisite this is. I can't borrow this. What do you carry in here? A vital organ? A tiny spleen?
abby		Isn't it divine? It was grandma's. She sends her love.
rachel		I love the color. It's oyster.
abby		You must promise me you'll stay healthy now, Rachel. You'll eat properly and get a lot of rest?
rachel		Yes, Mom.
abby		How are things going at the house? How's Sidney?
rachel		Fine.
abby		And his friend? What's his name?
rachel		Kieran.
abby		He seems to be a big hit. Is your sister behaving herself?
48.		 35   CONTINUED:                                               35
rachel		I'm not exactly sure what that means.
abby		Well, she needs a lot of acknowledgement.
rachel		You think?
abby		Stop. It can't be easy. Everybody knowing her troubles.
rachel		Mom, she's sold syndication rights to her troubles.
abby		Stop.
rachel		Mom, does it bother you at all, Carol doing so much wedding stuff?
abby		Not at all, darling, I'm thrilled to be providing the flowers. You know how much that means to me. They're going to be exquisite!
rachel		Yes, I'm sure, and that's so great and so you, but you can do whatever else you want, you know. I'd love it.
abby		Thank you, my sweetheart. I just know I'd be one of those wedding mothers who goes completely insane about the hors d'oeuvres. Andrew says I shouldn't be allowed near a shrimp puff.
rachel		Huh.
abby		There are so many other people for you to worry about.  
rachel		You're right.
abby		But this is going to be the most beautiful wedding ever. And I hope your sister has a wonderful time too...Anyway I'm going to be a grandmother! Hooray!
rachel		Hooray!
abby		I'm so excited. I have always wanted to be a grandmother. Even when I was thirty. Here. This ring was grandma's and she wanted you to have it.
rachel		Is she dead?
abby		Rachel.
rachel		It's beautiful. Thanks, Mom. I hope it's a boy.
abby		As long as it's healthy. Try the ring on. Rachel does.
abby		You've always had the most beautiful hands.
50.		 36   CONTINUED:                                               36
kieran		Your hand is on the turf.
kym		What turf?
kieran		The turf. The table.
kym		So?
kieran		So we have to do it over now. It was your shot and you get to do it over.
kym		What are you talking about?
kieran		Don't tell me you didn't know having one hand on the turf makes the play null.
kym		Null. Maybe we should just play Pinball.
kieran		Sometimes playing next to each other is easier than playing together.
kym		Who told you that?
kieran		My mom. She runs a pre-school.
51.		 36   CONTINUED:                                                 36
kym		What's Hawaii like?
kieran		You've never been?
kym		Uh uh.
kieran		It's beautiful. I've got a nice place. My horse lives there.
kym		Most people say "my girlfriend lives there" or "my wife lives there."
kieran		I live there and so does my horse. He's very possessive. We're working through it.
kym		Have you had him a long time?
kieran		Yes. I may be a degenerate dope fiend but I love my horse. I don't have a wife or a girlfriend and I've been clean almost seven years. You could just ask, you know. Your sister doesn't ask direct questions either. She's incredibly cryptic.
kym		That's a shrink thing, not a genetic thing.
kym		We were in the park. I was sixteen and I was...I had taken all these Percoset. I was unbelievably high.  
52.		 37   CONTINUED:                                                  37 KYM  He had thrown away his shoes- and I was like "Mom's going to kill me" because I had no idea where his shoes were- but he was so happy about it. And he had his red socks and he was running around kicking up the leaves. You know in movies where they show a person's high or whatever and the camera careens all around? It was like that. But fun. You know. We were having so much fun. We were leaping around in huge piles of leaves. He buried me. I buried him in a big pile. I was on baby sitting detail. He was pretending he was a train. So he was charging through the leaf pile, making tracks, you know? I was the caboose. And he kept going "Coal, caboose! Coal caboose!" So it's time to go and we're driving home and he's in his car seat still demanding coal, and I couldn't focus and I drove off the bridge. The car went into the lake. I couldn't get him out of his car seat. He drowned.
paul		Carol, they're back! Carol emerges with a tray of lemonade as the rental is rolling to a stop. Kieran and Kym are climbing out of the car...
paul		 Are you hungry? I made a Salad Nicoise. It's got Tuna!
53.		 38   CONTINUED:                                                38
kieran		 I was just thinking Salad Nicoise!
rachel		Can we get back to what we were doing, please?
paul		All right. Where were we? Ah yes...The Rosenzwiegs. Can you please put the Rosenzwiegs somewhere far away from me?
rachel		They're your friends, Dad.
paul		They're not my friends. I've just known them my entire life.
sidney		Just so you know, my mother expects to be carried in by liveried servants to the triumphant swirls of the harp and seated on a solid gold throne forged by nuns.
rachel		Really? Because right now I have her shoveling kelp in the laundry room. But I have it as a montage. Kieran and Kym arrive on the porch. Kym settles herself on a big comfy chaise.
kym		Where are you putting me? In the stockade?
paul		Kym, stop it. You're at the family table.
kym		 Don't put me with Michael and Sandy.
53a.		 38   CONTINUED:                                           38
rachel		They're not invited.
54.		 38   CONTINUED:                                                38
kym		Sandy never called me back after I sent her an amends e-mail from Milestones. I hate it when people don't meet you half way.
paul		The family table. With us.
emma		Oops. That's nine. I thought you were having tables of eight?
rachel		 I am.
kym		 Where are you putting me?
rachel		I was thinking of putting you with Cookie Puss and the Chicago cousins because they always get really drunk and need wrangling.
kym		Can someone else do it? I was planning on enjoying myself.
rachel		You're the only one they're afraid of.
kym		Still? God.
55.		 38   CONTINUED:                                               38
paul		 We can move Grandma Rose and her companion. That's actually a great idea.
kym		That's all I need. Another reason for Grandma Rose to hate me.
paul		She doesn't hate you.
kym		She's still mad about that thing at the Rite Aid.
paul		Nonsense!
kym		Whatever.
rachel		Dad, can I show you something in the kitchen?
paul		 Rachel, what is this behavior?
rachel		 I would just like to have a day please.
56.		 39   CONTINUED:                                               39
paul		Have all the days you want. Nobody is taking your day.
rachel		Then why are you defending her?
paul		Defending her from what? Darling, look, no one's defending any body...
rachel		Why are you protecting her?
paul		I don't want her to feel like we don't want her.
rachel		Sometimes I don't want her. It's my fucking wedding, don't you get it? I want my table to be perfect. Paul kisses her on the forehead.
paul		Stop it. She's your sister.
paul		Okay. Dishes? I'm going to load the dishwasher.
sidney		Paul! Paul, listen, I've been thinking about it. I did some preliminary sketches, I'd love to show them to you...
kieran		 He's not kidding.
57.		 39   CONTINUED:                                               39
sidney		And I think if you move the salad bowls to the upper tier you can get about 10% more stuff in the dishwasher.
carol		Hee hee hee. Paul gives him a look. Sidney starts humming PAUL'S
paul		Sidney, you're a nice young man. You make a lot of money and the world is your oyster. But you don't know shit about loading a dishwasher.
sidney		Sir, with all due respect, the mantle has passed.
kym		What's the time limit?
carol		Two minutes.
sidney		Are you comfortable with that, sir? I could spot you thirty seconds.
paul		You young people should all go fuck yourselves.
kym		Dad!
carol		Ha!
sidney		You see Paul, I think your problem lies in lid placement.  
paul		Rachel, you're out of the will.
sidney		Observe.
paul		Clean out this machine please, boy. So I can break out the whup-ass.
sidney		You know one of the early signs of senile dementia is an obsessive need to organize.
paul		Rachel, go fetch me my dart gun.
sidney		I find it touching but ultimately sad when the warriors of yesteryear are reluctant to lay down their plastic containers from Zabar's and retire gracefully.
paul		Kieran, how's my time?
59.		 39   CONTINUED:                                                  39
kieran		You have twenty-five seconds.
paul		I need more dishes. You amateur!
sidney		What? No way!
paul		Somebody give me some dishes! Kym yanks open a cupboard and passes a handful of dishes to Paul. He begins to load them.
kym		Mom is handling the flowers?
rachel		Well, she's growing them and choosing them - but they are being delivered by her people.
kym		Got it. Wow. Nurturing and growing things from the soil. Textbook, right?
rachel		Kym. Can we talk about the candles for a minute? Because --
kym		Yeah, exactly! Candles and rice paper -- all lit up during the ceremony. It's a way of honoring Ethan, Ethan's... spirit, you know? It will look really nice too, mainly. Millions of little candles all over the place, and one huge rice paper candle - representing Ethan - glowing near the couple. That would be you and Sidney.
rachel		Oh my god, no. Don't. Just don't. That would kill Dad. And Mom. And me. And everybody. Please, Kym, please please please don't do that.
kym		Geez. It was an IDEA. Lighten up, okay? They do that in Japan or India or someplace, okay?
rachel		Just drop it, sweetie, okay? Please?
kym		Oh my god - fine! Done! It was nothing, okay. It was just an idea.
61.		 41   CONTINUED:                                                41 KYM  Just a stupid idea. I was joking, you jerk! Lighten up, Rachel. This is your big weekend. Everything's fine.
kym		Are you getting a manicure?
stylist		You don't remember me, do you?
kym		Nooooo.....
stylist		Rick James' limousine.
kym		Oh. My. God.
stylist		Yeah.
62.		 43   CONTINUED:                                               43
kym		I meant to come back. I swear. I even had...Oh god, what was it?
stylist		Peanut M&M's and Carbona cleaning fluid.
kym		God is punishing me.
stylist		No, he's blessing me. It's cool: I talked him down.
kym		 So, how are ya?
stylist		I'm okay. You remember we were in the hospital together, right?
kym		We were...at Milestones?
stylist		No. I didn't go to Milestones. I didn't have the coverage. We were on the same floor at Loeb House. That was before you went to Milestones.
kym		Where did you go after that?
stylist		My parents' house. Unemployment. It's all about the coverage, right?
kym		 I know. It's so weird.
63.		 43   CONTINUED:                                                43
stylist		Listen. Do you remember that exercise where we all had to write down experiences and pass them anonymously to another person?
kym		"The Human Mirror: Seeing With a Fresh Perspective" Like Secret Santas of despair.
stylist		I got yours.
stylist		You drew poodles in the margins. I know it's supposed to be anonymous and everything, but you were so brave. The way your uncle abused you and your sister, and how it led to your sister's anorexia, and how you stayed up nights when she was down to fifty pounds holding a mirror to her face to make sure she was breathing. I'll never forget reading that, I swear to God.
rachel's stylist		 Do you want a tissue?
stylist		 I found it so profoundly inspirational that you could be there for her during your own incredible ordeal. I thank God that you came in here today. I never thought I'd ever have the chance to thank you. It was your strength that gave me the courage to confront my own abuse and help me turn my life around. Rachel slams down her magazine and leaves the salon. Kym runs after her. Both girls have foils in their hair.
kym		Would you stop?
rachel		Don't touch me.
kym		Don't you think his perspective might be a little skewed?
rachel		I never had anorexia. You sure as hell didn't watch over me while I was sleeping and WE DON'T HAVE A
kym		 --That we know of!--
kym		Ew!...  Wait... Rachel yanks open the car door, jumps in.
kym		I wasn't hurting anybody. No one got hurt, Rach. Rachel slams the car door shut.
rachel		I'm hurt!
65.		 44   CONTINUED:                                                  44
rachel		I hate her.
paul		You don't hate her.
rachel		Don't tell me what I don't hate. I hate, hate the lies. She lied in rehab.
paul		What do you mean she lied?
rachel		She lied to the people who were working with her. Who were trying to help her. She lies to everybody.
paul		 Where is she now?
rachel		Where am I now, Dad?
paul		Thank god. In here. Kym comes stomping in. Her foils are still intact.
kym		Thanks for abandoning me. I had to take a taxi!
rachel		 Are you kidding me?
66.		 45   CONTINUED:                                               45
kym		Why would anything I said or didn't say at the hospital hurt you? It wasn't about you!
rachel		Why not? Why wasn't it about me?
paul		Rachel...
rachel		Dad, stop.  Why not? I was hopeful. I was on your side. I still am. Do you have any idea what that means? Do you have any idea how lonely it was with everybody gone into your terrible world? There was nothing left. Everybody was just empty. You think they remembered I was alive or needed anything during your... life? And after all that loneliness and Mom and Dad blaming each other and worrying and death and divorce and that stupid hopefulness and Dad not even being able to listen to music, you were in the hospital, lying about us! Instead of telling the truth about yourself!
kym		God, Rachel...
paul		Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's this all about?
rachel		Apparently she has a whole history of sexual molestation.
carol		What?
paul		Kym, what is your sister saying? Did you say you were sexually molested?
67.		 45   CONTINUED:                                               45
kym		Oh Jesus Christ. Not by you! It was a long time ago!
paul		Were you?
kym		No!
paul		Why in god's name would you say something like that?
kym		It was anonymous! It seemed like a good idea at the time. The three on the couch are stunned for a moment.
rachel		Dad, look at me. I'm right here. I'm telling you that after Ethan died I wanted her to get better or just die...
paul		And look! She is better!
kym		Nice, Rachel. Thank you.
rachel		 ...And Dad, she was lying and she didn't give a shit about the rest of us. Recovery can't work if you lie. She knows that. I was worthless to her. We all meant nothing to her.
kym		You're not worthless. You're my sister. I love you guys. I need you guys, but you don't get to sit around for the rest of my life deciding what I'm supposed to be like. You weren't there. You weren't inside my head when I was fucked up and your certainly not there now. You haven't got a clue what I feel.
68.		 45   CONTINUED:                                               45
rachel		Kym, you took Ethan for granted. You were high for his life. You were not present for his life. You were high. He was like a pet to you. You drove him off the bridge. And now he's dead.
paul		It was an accident.
kym		Yes! I was stoned out of my mind! Jesus Christ, who do I have to be now? Mother Theresa? Did I use up all the love I'm allowed for this lifetime because I killed our little brother?
paul		No, it was an accident!
kym		I'm sorry! I'm sorry, okay? I'm sorry!
paul		It was an accident. Kym, her hair still in foils, rushes out of the house.
abby		Hello?
paul		Hello Abby. It's Paul.
abby		Hello Paul.
paul		Is Kym with you?
abby		No. Why? Did she go somewhere?
paul		She left the house about an hour ago.
abby		To a meeting?
paul		She and Rachel had an argument.
abby		Oh, dear. The night before her wedding? What was it about?
paul		Look, Abby, it doesn't matter. She left the house. She took the car.
abby		What was the argument about?
paul		I don't know. They were both getting their hair done...
70.		 49   CONTINUED:                                               49
abby		You don't know? Well what were they saying?
paul		For god's sake Abby! I'm trying to figure out where she went before I call the police!
abby		Well, last time you called the police looking for her she was upstairs, asleep in the guest room.
paul		She wasn't asleep, she was unconscious! And I'm glad I called the police because it took twenty minutes to wake her up and at least something was being done!
abby		Paul, I'm trying to help.
paul		You're trying to dismiss everything!
abby		She's not a criminal!
paul		You're disregarding everything I'm saying, and this failure to listen, failure to understand what is right in front of you is exactly why you will never be able...
abby		Paul!...
paul		...To help her!
abby		Maybe that's not what she needs all the time...
paul		 What?
71.		 49   CONTINUED:                                               49
abby		 I mean..I mean maybe she needs us --
paul		-- Maybe she needs someone to be watchful and present and in her life!
abby		-- To trust her --
paul		She could hurt herself! She could be lying dead in a ditch somewhere!
abby		All right! All right! Stop it!
paul		If you hear anything, can I count on you to please call me?
abby		 Can you count on me?...
abby		Yes Paul, you can count on me to call if I hear anything.
paul		Okay, then.
abby		Goodbye.
paul		Goodbye.
paul		Abby hasn't heard from her.
carol		She must feel awful.
kieran		 Excuse me, but when you're trying to get better there's a lot of pressure in rehabs... when someone isn't ready to take responsibility they create something, like an Uncle Stan, to take responsibility until they're ready.
paul		 Well, she's always been creative.
carol		I just wish we knew where she was.
sidney		Paul, Would you like me to go out and look for her? Rachel takes Sidney's hand.
carol		You're getting married tomorrow. A hundred people will be here.
kieran		I'll go. I'm...I'll go. Any idea where she might have gone? Everybody looks at Kieran. No one responds. The phone rings. Carol goes to get it. Everybody waits.
carol		It's the caterer.
73.		 50   CONTINUED:                                               50
emma		I'll take it.
kym		Ahhh....
abby		You should call your father.
kym		In a minute. I need a glass of water.
abby		I've made some tea.
74.		 53   CONTINUED:                                                 53
abby		Here darling. Sit down. You look upset.
kym		When will Andrew be back?
abby		Not too late. He's at a dinner.
abby		I spoke to grandma today. She sends her love. Is everything all right with the wedding?
kym		Yes.
abby		Good.
kym		Dad was loading the dishwasher...
abby		Mmm hmmm...
kym		And I handed him Ethan's bowl with the trains on it by accident.
kym		Why did you leave me in charge of him? Abby stops.
74a.		 53   CONTINUED:                                             53
kym		You knew. All of you knew. People told you. I was a junkie.  
75.		 53   CONTINUED:                                                  53 KYM  I was a crazy drug addict. I stole from you. I lied to your face. I weighed six pounds and my hair was falling out. I spent every dinner in the bathroom.
abby		You were sick.
kym		You know what I was. It's not like there weren't any clues. I stayed in my room for days. I passed out all the time. Where were you, Mom! What were you thinking? Why did you leave me? Why did you leave me in charge of him? Abby closes her fists and beats Kym with all her strength.
abby		You weren't supposed to kill him! You weren't supposed to kill him! Kym curls up protectively and Abby suddenly stops.
kym		Mom?
kym		Mom?
abby		Get away!
paul		...I never thought I'd have two little girls. Two little girls running around with their tummies sticking out in their diapers. They used to bite me on the nose, the two of them.  
77.		 59   CONTINUED:                                                 59 PAUL  I'd hold both of them in the pool and they'd take turns biting my nose. Ethan never did that. He preferred pinkies. Or knuckles...
valet		Um. Hi.
kym		I'm the Maid of Honor.
79.		 64   CONTINUED:                                                 64
valet		Cool.
valet		Hey, I know you. I used to work at the dog grooming place.
valet		Hey, you holding?
paul		Kymmie?
carol		Oh my lord...
paul		Are you all right? They meet at the circular driveway.
kym		I hit Mom.
paul		Oh my god is she...
kym		Not with the car.
kym		I have to get dressed.
paul		Look at you! You need to get to a hospital!
80.		 64   CONTINUED:                                                 64
kym		Dad! I'm fine.
paul		You can't just vanish. You can't just leave. You have to call. You always have to call.
carol		Why don't you go find your sister? She didn't sleep last night waiting for you.
kieran		Holy shit.  Do you need a doctor?
kym		You sent out the cavalry?
kieran		For your dad. Mostly for your dad.
80a.		 66   CONTINUED:                                              66
kym		I have to get ready. I have to get dressed.
81.		 66   CONTINUED:                                                  66
kieran		Okay. I'm so glad to see you.
rachel		Aaaah! Fuck! She is dressed in her Sari and huge gold earrings and looks beautiful, despite a lack of sleep. Seeing her bashed up sister framed in the doorway, Rachel fights tears. She loses.
kym		I hit Mom.
rachel		With the car?
kym		No. No.
rachel		You hit Mom? You hit our mother?
kym		Okay.
82.		 68   CONTINUED:                                               68
rachel		I got it.
rachel		Can you do this?
rachel		Okay.
83.		 70   CONTINUED:                                               70
judge castle		We're here on this beautiful day...
judge castle		Exactly. Everybody cracks up, especially Kym. She laughs a beat longer than anybody else.
kym		 Excuse me.
sidney		I always just wanted to hear music, and when I met you I heard you. You are the most beautiful thing I've ever heard. Thanks for marrying me.
84.		 71   CONTINUED:                                                 71
sidney		For you. 
84aa.		 71   CONTINUED:                                               71
judge castle		On that note, and with the power vested in me by the state of Connecticut and Neil Young, I now pronounce you husband and wife.
84a.		 72   CONTINUED:                                               72
85.		 72   CONTINUED:                                                72
sidney		Is this mocha? Or chocolate? He samples the frosting.
sidney		Okay, Mom.
rachel		Yeah, Baby Boy. Rachel licks the frosting off Sidney's finger then gives his mom a big wholesome smile.
rachel		Can we all do this together?
rachel		Mom.
86.		 73   CONTINUED:                                               73
sidney		Dear God, bless this family and let them always invite us for dinner because my new wife can't boil water or fry an egg. La Chaim.
everyone		La Chaim. Rachel suddenly stands on a chair and bangs on a glass with a spoon.
rachel		Friends and family, family and friends! I have an announcement to make! I'm the bride and I'm knocked up! Surprised whooping and hollering.
rachel		I'm exercising my bridely, knocked up prerogatives and demand that
rachel		Oh yay! Dad c'mon. C'mon Dad! This is my favorite song!
paul		Ooo. Look at me, I'm dancing. She drags Paul to the temporary poolside patio dance floor. Paul is a fantastic dancer! Sidney drags his dad to the dance floor. He's dramatic and weird! Abby smiles politely at Kym and goes to sit down with Andrew. Kieran spirits Kym to the patio, where they join the dancers.
87.		 74   CONTINUED:                                                74
kym		Fine.  I had an accident.
abby		And, how are you, Bob?
bob		God, never better -- Isaac opened his practice!
distinguished neighbor		 If you're in need of any legal services...
87a.		 74   CONTINUED:                                             74
kym		Sorry...I'm not sure...
88.		 74   CONTINUED:                                                 74
89.		 75   CONTINUED:                                                  75
90.		 75   CONTINUED:                                                  75
neighborhood girl		 I can do a handstand!
kym		That sucked.
kym		Ouch. The girl laughs and runs off.
91.		 77   CONTINUED:                                               77
kym		 Hi. Where's Mom?
rachel		Taking a break.
kym		How can you take a break from your own daughter's wedding?
rachel		Mom doesn't actually participate in things.
kym		And anyway, she hasn't even done anything all day.
rachel		I was thinking about getting her a cat. Cats are really annoying. At some point you have to deal with them, right? Or they starve to death and piss on your sheets.
kym		It's so nice here. Suddenly Kieran sweeps into the room.
kieran		You can run but you can't hide! Kym shrieks as Kieran grabs her and plants a wet one on her, dipping her to the floor. They careen into Sidney and Rachel. Sidney grabs Rachel and starts molesting her.
rachel		 Stop! Stop you fiend! Rachel and Sidney fall to the floor writhing, sounding way too amorous. Then:
92.		 77   CONTINUED:                                               77
abby's voice off		Hello?
kym		Hello?
rachel		Hello? The ceiling light flicks on overhead and Abby enters the living room. Blinking against the light, Rachel struggles to her feet smoothing her dress.
rachel		Mom!
abby		Here you are.
sidney		 Hello Abby. You're lovely. And I'm not looking up your skirt. Kieran is busting a gut not to laugh.
abby		I've been looking for you all over the place.
abby		I'm in here.
andrew		They're bringing the car around.
abby		All right.
rachel		You're leaving?
abby		Darling, I'm exhausted. I had such a marvelous time. Those dancers were so beautiful. But weddings are really for young people.  
93.		 77   CONTINUED:                                               77 ABBY  I thought we'd just sneak off and not make a big scene.
rachel		You could make a little scene.
abby		And here I am making it. Andrew and I are going to Washington in the morning.
kym		Why are you going to Washington?
abby		It's the mother of all fund raisers at American. I thought I mentioned it. We're going to stay on about a week - there are lots of meetings. I thought since you two are going away soon...  ...and I'm sure you don't want any grown ups around checking up on you...Will you still be here when I get back? Kym doesn't say anything.
rachel		What about our post-nuptial wedding gossip reconnaissance, Mom?
abby		Well, can you come by early?
rachel		Um...
abby		Of course you don't want to do that. It's your wedding night. You don't want to get up early. I have to get Andrew organized. He's hopeless. And we'll be back in a bit. It was such a lovely wedding, darling. She bends in for a kiss.
rachel		Wait! I want my mother and my sister!
94.		 77   CONTINUED:                                                77
abby		Rachel...
abby		Will you call me every day about...? She pats Rachel's tummy.
rachel		Yes. Of course.
abby		All right, then.
sidney		Goodbye Abby.
abby		Good bye, Son-in-law. Kym and Rachel watch their mother leave the room.
sidney		 I saw your mother's underwear. Kym sees Abby and Andrew crossing the front porch through the window.
kym		I can't find my cigarettes.
95.		 78   CONTINUED:                                               78
paul		Kymmie. Speak of the devil. You remember Susanna Galeano.
kym		 Hi.
susanna		Hi Kym.
paul		Susanna has a public relations firm and she just lost one of her assistants.
susanna		Weddings. They're an epidemic. Your father gave me my start about a hundred years ago.
paul		No, no. Hardly. Well...
susanna		We could definitely use an extra body right about now. Have you ever thought about Public Relations?
kym		The public is kind of afraid of me.
paul		The firm is opening an office right here in town, just in time for the holidays. You could stay right here.
susanna		Have you ever thought about P.R. Kym?
paul		Logistically it's just a dream. You could stay in your old room. I could chauffeur you around. You wouldn't have to worry about rent.
96.		 78   CONTINUED:                                               78
kym		Have you already talked to Carol about me staying here?
paul		Of course. She's fine about it. You could stay in your old room.
susanna		Why don't you give me a call on Monday, okay? She hands Kym a business card and kisses Paul on the cheek.
susanna		Goodbye Paul. It was just beautiful. Bye Kym. She leaves.
paul		Suzy's first rate. P.R. can be fascinating.
kym		You always said it was stupid.
paul		I meant stupid. Do you want me to hold that for you? You've got no pockets.
kym		I've got it. Thanks, Dad. I'll be right back.
97.		 79   CONTINUED:                                                  79
kym		Oof. You scared me.
kieran		Making a break for it?
kym		Yeah. I have to go. I was coming to find you.
98.		 83   CONTINUED:                                                83
kieran		You don't have to slip away without making any noise, you know? I like noise.
kym		I was coming to find you. My ride's outside.
kieran		...Okay...If you need anything...
kym		If I need to post bond? Kieran hands Kym a folded piece of paper.
kieran		No. If you ever need anything.
kym		Thank you, Kieran.
kieran		Maybe you'll come visit me in Hawaii?
kym		That would be nice.
kym		I have to go. Bye.
kym		 Dad.
rosa		Hi.
rachel		Hi.
kym		 Will you tell Dad?
kym		I love your baby!
rachel		Me too.
kym		 Bye!
100.		 85   CONTINUED:                                               85
****Dialogues from script :Raging_Bull.txt****

jake		Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It's a thrill to be standing here talking to you wonderful people. In fact, it's a thrill to be standing! I haven't seen so many people since my last fight at Madison Square Garden. After that fight, a reporter asked me, 'Jake, where do you go from here?' I said, 'To a hospital!' I fought one hundred and six professional fights and still none of them bums figured out how to fight me -- they kept hitting me in the head! And that's why I'm here tonight...  'When the fighter's not engaged in his employment, his employment, although he was Champ and quite the rage, he must go somewhere else to seek employment, seek employment. But a fighter's life is not a bowl of cherries, still I'd rather have an egg than a fist upon my face... That's Entertainment!'
joey		You didn't have to come to Cleveland to get beat by a "moulan yan," Jake!
tony		He's got you, Jake! You're outpointed! You're coming up for the tenth. You gotta knock him out!
joey		A grand apiece! We got a grand apiece on this, Jake! A fucking grand!
referee		One, two, three, four...
announcer		Ladies and Gentlemen, the winner, under the rules of the Cleveland Boxing Commission, after ten rounds, by a decision -- Jimmy Reeves.
joey		 Don't get out of the ring. You won the fight -- let him go out first.
joey		Salvy, would I steer you wrong? Let's say that's the truck; it's full of cigarettes, right? Now, two o'clock this morning we move the truck from here to there,  take the cigarettes out, sell 'em, make some cash.
salvy		Hey but Joey, you're thinking nickels and dimes. The money's with your brother.
joey		What do you want from my life, Salvy? He's my brother.
salvy		He ain't doin' the right thing. He's makin' beans compared to what he should be makin'. Can't you make him understand that?
joey		 Hey, leave the kids alone.
salvy		Get lost.  Hey kids, "A cop is a rat." Remember that, "A rat."
joey		 Hey Jimmy, here's a dollar for your trouble. There's some bums around the corner -- they need your help.
cop		Keep the dollar, Joey. Get yourself a new suit.
joey		 Right here.
cop		Hey, don't get wise!
joey		Just kidding, take it easy.  No fuckin' sense of humor.
jake		This looks done.
irma		It's not done.
jake		It looks done. I'll take it the way it is.
irma		Here's your steak. You can't wait for it to be done. Here.
jake		No, I can't wait. You know when I wait? When it's important to wait. It's not important to wait for no steak. It's important to wait for Reeves to leave the ring. It ain't important to wait for no steak! I won that fight. So, I stayed in the ring, and that way I made sure everybody knew it. I shoulda knocked him out earlier, sonofabitch.
joey		I can't convince him. He's got such a thick head, I'd like to crack it open myself. Believe me, my own brother. It's very hard. You don't have to convince me -- I know we should be with Tommy. You talk to him. He don't listen to nobody.
salvy		Look, I'm just tellin' you how Tommy feels. Jake is makin' it hard on himself. Tommy wants him with us. It's as simple as that.
joey		All right, I'll try. See you later.
salvy		Tomorrow, at the gym. Don't forget.
joey		Right, the gym.
joey		 What's the matter?
irma		He's doing it again.
joey		 What's the matter? You're drinking. You're eating like an animal.
jake		 Nothing...
joey		Hey, c'mon, what's the matter?
jake		 I ain't ever gonna fight Joe Louis, that's what's the matter.
joey		What're you talking about? He's a heavyweight. You're a middleweight.
jake		Look at these hands. These fuckin' hands. I was born with a girl's hands. And even if I put on enough weight to be a heavyweight, I'd be too slow to fight. No matter how big I get, I'll never be big enough to fight Louis.
joey		That's what I'm sayin'. You shouldn't even think like that. It's crazy.
jake		I tell you one thing. Ok, I'll never be big enough to fight Louis, but I know Joey, I know...
joey		You know?
jake		Yeah. Do me a favor.
joey		Sure. What is it?
jake		Hit me in the face.
joey		 You want me to do what?
jake		You heard me, I said hit me.
joey		C'mon, Jack. You had a few drinks.
jake		Go ahead. I ain't drunk. Take your best shot. On the jaw.
joey		Jack, I got no gloves.
jake		 Here's your glove.
joey		Jack! Enough!
jake		Go ahead.
joey		What was that for? I know you can take punches. I can hit you from now to doomsday. What the fuck does that prove?
jake		See that, I don't feel it. I can take it. I know I can take anybody.
salvy		 Hey Joey --
jake		Did you know they were coming up here?
joey		Yeah, yeah. They just wanted to talk to you. So I...
jake		 Don't ever bring those kids up here again! I'm working out, I'm killin' myself in here, and they walk around like they fuckin' own the neighborhood.
salvy		 Hey Joey, we better go. See you later.
jake		Go 'head. Wave goodbye. They're your friends.
joey		What are you getting so hot about -- Tommy Como told him to come down here...
jake		 Hey, I don't care about Tommy Como. I don't care about Jesus Christ on the fuckin' cross. I gotta give them a percentage of what I make! I'm in here breaking my ass, not them. Don't ever bring them up here again.
joey		I didn't tell them to come. Tommy Como...
jake		That's right, fight back. I got laid three times before I came up here this morning and I can still break your ass.
joey		You cocksucker.
fan		Hey, Jake.
jake		 Who's that?
joey		Whadda you care?
jake		Whadda ya mean, whadda I care? Who is she? What's a matter? You afraid I'm gonna take her on you?
joey		No, I'm not afraid. Why? You wanna meet her?
jake		Yeah --
joey		Cause I'll go right over there and bring her here.
jake		Go 'head.
joey		You sure you wanna meet her? Don't make me go over there, you change your mind and you make me look bad, cause she's really a knockout. She's 15, this kid -- a great piece of ass.
jake		How do you know? You know her that good?
joey		No, I see her around the pool. I know her. I know her like that -- not like that.
jake		 Nah, not now... I wanna wait. I don't feel right...
joey		 I'm tellin' you, she'll be there, I know she'll be there.
jake		'Cause I wanna catch her alone.
joey		How you gonna catch anybody alone at a dance?... I don't know if she'll be there alone... She'll probably be there with her girlfriends or something.
jake		She ever go with them? Like Salvy?
joey		Nah, she don't go with nobody. She's only 15 years old.
jake		What does that have to do with it? She don't look 15 to me. I heard somethin' with Salvy. She was with him once or somethin', I think. It was like some blonde. That's the one...
joey		Probably. You know she talks to everybody, and not just him.
jake		Yeah, she's nice.
joey		Ah, some piece of ass, I'm tellin' you.
jake		You wasn't with her, were you?
joey		Huh?
jake		You wasn't with her?
joey		With her? How?
jake		You know, like bang her or anything?
joey		Ah, no, no. I didn't bang her. I know her from around here, that's all. You want to meet her or what?
jake		Nah, not now -- all those hard-ons around. I'll wait. Not now.
joey		 I'm tellin' you, she'll be there, I know she'll be there. Dressed up and everything.
jake		I don't like all those other clowns around. That's all I know.
joey		C'mon, hurry up. We're never gonna get outa here tonight.
irma		Where you going at this hour?
jake		What're you, a cop? I'm goin' out -- business.
irma		You fuckin' worm, if you're going out, I'm going out.
jake		And where you goin'?
irma		None of your fuckin' business.
jake		Eh, go out. Do what you're gonna do. What do I care?
irma		That's right -- run out. I ain't gonna be here when you get back.
irma		Bunch of guys. You all hang out together. Yeah, you're all going out on business. You're all gonna suck each other off.
joey		What a mouth on her -- you shoulda hit her -- no good fuckin' Jewish cunt -- breakin' our balls. You shoulda hit her with a chair.
jake		Hey, watch your mouth. Don't talk like that. She's still my wife.
joey		No, but Jake... how much abuse can you take.
jake		 How many times do I have to hit her? I hit her enough.
irma		Go ahead -- that's all you're good for -- to go out and leave me here like a dog. You and your brother! You don't even look like brothers. You look like faggots! That's what you look like -- faggots!
joey		Look, could you move a little. Would you mind, darling?
vera		Mind what, Mr. Big Shot?
jake		 Eh, girlie, take a walk.
joey		 All right, darling, I'll just stand here and wait.
jake		Do you see her yet?
joey		Give me a chance. Let me look.
jake		Be right back.
joey		 Hey, Vickie, c'mere. Don't be afraid. C'mere. Just say hello. This is my brother.
jake		Joey said you wanted to meet me. Is that right? You wanted to meet me?
vickie		 I just wanted to say hello.
jake		You wanted to say hello, eh? I can't believe it. When did you fall outa heaven? Anyone ever tell you you're the most beautiful one here, princess of the pool. You got a baby face. Look at mine. Whatcha wanna meet me for?
vickie		I don't know. 'Cause you're cute.
jake		 Ya hear, Joey? She thinks this face is cute? Hey, whatcha doin' now? You wanna go for a ride?
vickie		Sure. Gimme a few minutes.
jake		Hey...
vickie		You don't talk very much.
jake		I ain't ever talked to a movie star before.
vickie		 I ain't no movie star. I'm just in high school.
jake		Oh no? I thought you was a movie star.
vickie		Jake! The bus!
jake		Any bus gives you trouble, I knock it out for ya.
vickie		You go first. Let me watch how to do this.
jake		You don't get nothin' done by watchin'. You just gotta do it. Here, I'll help you.
vickie		It feels real good.
jake		Just keep your eye on the ball.
vickie		Should I hit it?
jake		Just give it a nice little tap.
vickie		I can't find my ball.
jake		Can you see it?
vickie		No.
jake		No.
vickie		What does that mean?
jake		It means the game is over.
jake		Hi Pop. This is my new girlfriend, Vickie. V for victory. How do you like that Pop?
joe lamotta		V for victory.
vickie		 It's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. LaMotta.
joe lamotta		 Sit down. Eat something.
jake		C'mon, Pop. You've been in America so many years. Speak English.
joe lamotta		 You want me to speak English -- Fuck you. That's English.
jake		Pop, don't curse. There's a girl here. I'm gonna show her around the house. Why don't you just finish your wine?
vickie		Jake, this is your father's bedroom.
jake		That's all right. He don't mind.
vickie		Jake...
jake		It's OK.
joey		The fuckin' papers are full of Robinson and nothing on Jake -- and Jake knocked him clear outa the ring in Detroit. He's the only guy ever to beat Robinson. Whatsa matter with you? I thought we had an arrangement.
reporter		We do Joey. You know we do.
joey		You holding me up for more cash or what?
reporter		I can't print nothing if Jake won't give me nothing.
joey		C'mon, Jake. You're makin' us look stupid. I brought these guys up here, now you don't wanna talk to them? What are ya doin'? Open your mouth, for Christsake.
jake		 I'm tallin' you now, when I read this, it better not make me look bad.
reporter		Jake, did I ever make you look bad before?
jake		Maybe it wasn't you, but you know what I'm talkin' about.
joey		 Ask him your questions.
reporter		All right, Jake, you're being talked about as the top middleweight contender. Do you think another victory over Sugar Ray will get you a shot at the title?
jake		Why not? There's nobody else around who wants to fight me; they're all afraid. I don't see why I shouldn't have a shot at the title right now.
reporter		Well, the word is to get a title shot you have to cooperate with the people who control boxing, in New York. And they're saying that you don't cooperate.
jake		You guys know more about that than I do. I just fight...
joey		 He fights the toughest guys around that everybody else is afraid to fight...
jake		 I'm the only guy ever to beat Sugar Ray, and I still don't have a shot at the title.
reporter		You just fought Sugar Ray two weeks ago and you're training like this right now... Are you afraid Sugar Ray might beat you this time?
jake		I tell you what. You hit me here.  I can't tell the difference. I just fight.
vickie		Are you sure we should be doing this?
jake		Come over here.
vickie		You said never to touch you before a fight.
jake		 If you let me do it, I'll murder you. Come here.
vickie		You said I couldn't. You've been good for two weeks...
jake		Come here.
vickie		Jake...
jake		Do what I say.
vickie		Jake, you made me promise not to get you excited.
jake		Go 'head. Do it.
vickie		I like the gym smell.
jake		Now take your panties off.
vickie		Oh, Jake.
jake		I can't do it. I can't fool around. This Robinson, I gotta beat him again. I can't fool around. Don't come near me.
joey		 They robbed us! Those fuckin' judges -- What the fuck fight were they watching? If I see them on the street, I'll break their heads. Decision Robinson, my fuckin' ass! Those judges give him the decision 'cause he's goin in the army next week! How else could this have happened?... What do you think they gave him the decision for, that's why.
jake		 Whadda I gotta do, Joey? I knocked him down. What did I do wrong? I don't understand.
joey		You won and was robbed! You didn't do nothin' wrong.
jake		I dunno. Maybe I don't deserve to win. I've done a lot of bad things. I dunno...
joye		Fuck that. This was the fight. This coulda done it. This was our shot. They out and out robbed us.
mario		Vickie is here, Jake.
jake		I don't wanna see nobody.
joey		You want us to wait for you?
jake		No, take her home. I wanna be alone for a while. Everybody go.
jake		 I just weighed myself - I'm 161. No more deals like this Janiro bullshit. I didn't tell you to do it in the first place.
joey		Jake, you're the one who said you could get down to 155! What did I do, pull it out of the fuckin' hat?
jake		 Well, sometimes you shouldn't listen to me! Now I don't know if I can make it down to 155. I'm having trouble making 160, and without telling me, you sign me for a fight at 155 pounds, and if I don't make 155, I forfeit $15,000! You're supposed to know what you're doin'. You're supposed to be a manager!
joey		You want the title shot?
jake		Say what you're gonna say.
joey		You want the title shot or not?
jake		Say what you gotta say. Don't be a smart ass.
joey		 This Janiro's an up-and-coming fighter, this kid you gotta knock out. Knockout this fuckin' kid! I'm telling you, this is your step towards getting a shot at the title. Listen to me: I'm telling you. You been killin' yourself for three years. There's nobody left -- they're afraid to fight you. This Janiro's up-and-coming. He don't know. Fuckin' tear him apart, wipe him out! What are you worried about? Your weight? Look, even if you lose they're gonna think you're weak; they're gonna think you're not the fighter you used to be. They'll match you with guys they were afraid to match you with before, and then you'll kill them and you'll get your title shot. And if you beat this kid Janiro, they gotta give you a shot at the title because there's nobody else. Either way you win and you do it on your own -- just like you want it. All right?
vickie		Joey's right. Janiro's up-and coming, he's good looking...
jake		 What do you mean, "good looking?"
vickie		Well, he's popular. A lotta people like Janiro. You beat him and it only figures they'll wanna see you get a title shot. But, what do I know? I should keep my mouth shut, I should...
jake		 Who asked you?
vickie		But, Jake, I was just...
jake		 Who asked you?
vickie		I was just...
jake		 Who asked you?
comedian		Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to point out a special guest we have with us tonight -- The Raging Bull, The Bronx Bull, Mr. Jake LaMotta.
jake		 Look at this abuse I gotta take.
janet		Janet.
salvy		Hi, Joey. Jake, how you doin'? Vickie...
jake		What're you lookin' at? You lookin' at him?
vickie		No, I'm not. I'm looking at you.
jake		Don't tell me "No." I saw you lookin' at him. Why, you like him?
vickie		I'm not interested in him.
jake		You're not interested in him?
vickie		No, I'm not.
jake		In other words, you're not interested in him but you'd be interested in somebody else, right?
vickie		Jake, c'mon now. Don't start.
jake		 Look at this, all of a sudden everybody's a fuckin' Romeo around here. Did you see the way she was lookin' at him?
joey		Nah, she would never...
jake		 Didn't you just see her lookin' at him? She told me no, but I don't believe her.
joey		 C'mon, Jake. You know she's crazy about you.
jake		I'd just love to catch her. Oooooh, I'd just love to catch her once.
waiter		These are from Tommy Como.
joey		 Excuse me for a minute. Be right back.
jake		 Don't be long. I'm afraid with all these tough guys here.
joey		Jake, come over for a few minutes. Tommy wants to say hello to you. C'mon, just come and say hello.
jake		Hi, Tommy. How are you?
tommy		Jake, sit down for a minute.
jake		 C'mon, Tommy --
tommy		How you feelin'? Ok? You feelin' good?
jake		Never felt better.
tommy		Tony Janiro's gotta watch out, eh?
jake		He should.
tommy		 This Janiro's a good fiahter, pretty good-lookin' kid.
salvy		Bet on him three times. Always come through for me.
tommy		How's the weight? Ok?
jake		Yeah, the weight's Ok.
tommy		All right, lemme ask you something. Let's say I was a good friend of yours. And I was telling you I was gonna bet a lot of money on you in this Janiro fight. What would you tell me?
jake		I'd tell you to bet a bundle.
jake		Vickie?... Vickie, you asleep?
vickie		What?
jake		You asleep?
vickie		Yeah.
jake		Huh?
vickie		Yeah, what?
jake		Tell me, you think of anybody else when I'm making love to you?
vickie		Nobody. I love you, remember?
jake		Then why'd you say that thing about Tony Janiro?
vickie		What did I say?
jake		That he's got a pretty face.
vickie		I never noticed his face.
jake		You sure you're not thinking of him right now?
vickie		Positive.
jake		You're the one who said he was good looking. You think he's good looking 'cause I know you think he's good-looking. I'll smash his face inside out. I'll make him into dog meat. Nobody's gonna think he's good-looking when I get through with him. So you just go ahead and think about who you want.
eagan		Tony Janiro, 151 lbs. and one half.
jake		Just a minute.
eagan		Ok. This is official.
crowd		LaMotta.
announcer		The winner, by unanimous decision, in ten rounds, Jake LaMotta!
joey		I love you.
jake		 This is my night! Listen to them! I'm gonna be champ!
detroit promoter		When we gonna get Jake back in Detroit? Jesus, he really did a job on Janiro. Who you after next, Joey?
joey		 I dunno. We're working on it. He's training at the camp now.
jackie curtie		After what I seen, they gotta give him a shot at the title.
joey		We're gonna get our shot.
detroit promoter		Oh Joey, this is Jackie Curtie. He handles a lot of business in South Ohio.
jackie curtie		I like your brother. Made a lot of money on him.
joey		Betcha more than he has.
jackie curtie		Made a little cabbage on the Tommy Bell fight too. Whatever happened to him?
joey		Ain't he dead?
detroit promoter		Nah. He's got a job downtown. Runs an elevator in some building.
joey		Yeah?
detroit promoter		Went down to see him the other day. I says, "Tommy, take me up to the fifth floor." And you know, he took me right up there.
jackie curtie		Yeah, Tommy always was a stand-up guy.
detroit promoter		Joey, let me get you another drink.
joey		 Just a minute. Excuse me. I'll be right back.
vickie		What the hell am I doing wrong? Just because Jake is training, I can't go out? What am I, a goddamn prisoner?
joey		No, you're his wife.
vickie		I'm not doing anythina wrong. I'm just trying to have a good time. Do I have to be cooped up in the house all the time?
joey		It don't look right.
vickie		Well, go ahead, tell Jake. He's gonna kill me anyway. It's a matter of time.
joey		I'm not gonna tell him nothing; but if he finds out, he will kill you. What's the matter with you? Aren't you happy? You got everything you want.
vickie		You don't sleep with him. I do. I don't get to breathe without tellin' him. He keeps me in a cage. If he thinks I'm lookin' at somebody the wrong way, I get used as a punching bag. He don't trust nobody. If he saw the two of us talking together right now, you'd be in trouble too -- believe me. Look at me, Joey. I'm 19 years old. I wanna enjoy my life. I love Jake, but you don't know. He gets crazy sometimes. I'm scared.
joey		Try to understand, Vickie. Jake's got a lotta aggravation. He's been a top contender too long.
vickie		That's right, take his part. You're his brother. He's never gonna be champ. Too many people are against him.
joey		And you're drinking with them right now.
vickie		And I'm gonna finish my drink. And, I'm gonna have a good time, because I ain't doing nothing wrong.
joey		 You're wrong to be here. Let's go.
salvy		Joey, relax. You're taking this the wrong way. Why don't you sit down and have a drink?
joey		Excuse me, I'm talking to my sister in-law.
salvy		Excuse me for living.
joey		What do you think, I'm blind? My brother's breaking his ass in a ring, and you're here with his wife.
salvy		Hey Joey, I'm here with Patsy and Vera and Sandy. And Vickie just happened to come along. We're just trying to have a good time. What do you want from me? So, why don't you just take it easy before this gets out of hand.
joey		Get the fuck outa here. What did you do, take your gangster pills today? I'll tear your fuckin' head off your shoulders!
paul		Ain't you forgettin' something? Ain't there never supposed to be no trouble in this joint?
salvy		Hey Joey, whadda ya lookin' to die young?
joey		 I'll suck your eyes out! I'll fuckin' take the two of you.
patsy		 Don't fuckin' put your hands on me! You're gonna near about this, Paul.
paul		 Get outa here. Go on.
como		All rightg I don't have to hear any more. I think I understand what happened. I understand it was your brother's wife and there was probably a misunderstanding. I'm not sayin' Salvy shouldn't have acted the way he did. But, Joey, you don't raise your hands. You don't do that kind of thing. This time we forget about it but no more after this. You understand?
joey		Yeah, I understand, Tommy.
como		All right, you guys, shake hands.
joey		Yeah, they're good. They're good, Tommy.
como		What is it with you? Can't you talk? You got like a funny attitude. I can't figure you out, Joey. What's with you and the quick answers? You wanna get outa here fast?
joey		Aw, Tommy, c'mon, it ain't that.
como		Look Joey, I wanna tell you something. Your brother ain't gonna get nowhere without us -- nowhere. And I'm tellin' you between the two of us, it's gettin' to the point where it's gettin' to be a real embarrassment to me, a real embarrassment.
joey		How can he embarrass you?
como		He's an embarrassment because Frankie and the other guys are expectin' me to do something about it, and I'm lookin' very bad. I can't deliver a kid from my own neighborhood. Why's he make it so hard on himself? He comes to me, I can make it easier for him.
joey		Tommy, Jake respects you. He won't even say hello to anybody else -- you know that. But you know when Jake gets set on somethin', Jesus Christ Almighty could get off the fuckin' cross and he ain't gonna talk him out of it. I'm his kid brother. I got no say with Jake on this. He thinks he can buck everybody and make it on his own.
como		Make it on his own? Does he know the kind of money involved? I mean the real money. He thinks he's gonna become champ on his own? We're gonna sit by and see some nut come in there and hold one of the most important titles in the world? A nut who don't listen to nobody or respect nobody? Is he really crazy? Listen, Joey, you understand, you tell him. I don't care how great he is or how colorful. He could beat all the Sugar Ray Robinsons and all the Janiros he wants to. He ain't gonna get a shot at the title without us. I'm not askin' you to do another thing except get that message into that thick head!
joey		Whatcha doin'?
jake		I remember the first time I met Vickie... I know there's somethin' up. I know she's doin' somethin', but I can't catch her...
joey		Maybe she's afraid you're gonna hit her so she can't talk to you the way she wants to.
jake		What do you mean?
joey		Try talkin' to her. She's your wife -- ask her what's the matter.
jake		When I'm away, did you ever notice anythin' funny with her? Tell me the truth.
joey		Jack, if there was anything funny, I would tell you.
jake		I want you to keep an eye on her when I'm not here. Understand?
joey		Sure, I'll keep an eye on her.
jake		What did Tommy say?
joey		I got good news, and I got bad news. The good news is you got your shot at the title. The bad news is...
jake		 Yeah, I know.
eagan		Billy Fox, 173 3/4 pounds.
jake		What's up, Colonel?
eagan		I'd like to talk to Jake a minute.
joey		Sure.
eagan		I suppose you heard what everybody's been saying, Jake.
jake		What who's been sayin'?
eagan		You were a big favorite in this fight. Then two days ago the odds start jumping all over the place until you're a 12-5 underdog.
jake		I don't follow no gamblin' Commissioner. I'm just a fighter.
eagan		Now the fight's off the books altogether. Meyer Lansky couldn't get a bet down on this fight. Some people are saying you're going into the tank.
jake		Believe what you want.
eagan		I want to believe you, LaMotta.
jake		I'm gonna kill him. That fuckin' jig's gonna wish he never came outa the jungle. You got any money?
eacan		What?
jake		You got any money you want to bet on Billy Fox, you can put it right here...  'cause Jake LaMotta don't go down for nobody.
eagan		That's all I wanted to hear.
jake		 Stand up! What the fuck are you doin'?
crowd		Got your swimming trunks on, Jake? I hope they're paying you enough. Fake, fake.
tony		What's the matter with you? What's the matter with you?
jake		Hit me! Hit me! What's the matter with you, you motherfucker? Hit me!
tony		Don't fight anymore!  It's a free country, don't fight anymore!
jake		 Why did they have to stop it? Why did they have to stop it?
reporter		What happened?
handler		 He must've been really hurt in the 2nd. He didn't answer me when I tried to tell him something in the corner.
jake		Get everyone out of here!
joey		 It woulda been so easy, Jack. So easy...
jake		C'mon, Joey.
joey		G'wan, do it.  Protect yourself, rummy.
jake		What the fuck they want? I took the dive. They want me to fall down too? I don't fall down for nobody. I never went down in my life. Joey, what do I gotta do? Crawl on my hands and knees? I made an asshole of myself in the fuckin' Garden! All the newspaper writers make fun of me. I'm the bum of the year. All I want is a shot. Just a fuckin' shot. What do I gotta do? I'll do anything.
joey		Except fall down like a normal person.
jake		Yeah, except fall down. That's right.
joey		All right, you don't wanna fall down, so now you gotta take a rest. So, you enjoy the suspension. 'Cause there's nothin' you can do about it. Let the Commissioner and the D.A. jerk you around. So you wait.
jake		Jesus Christ! Seven months! What am I gonna do for seven months? I'm gonna go crazy. How do I keep my strength? By that time I'll be too weak to win the title. And my weight? Forget about it -- I'm gonna blow up like a balloon. I ain't never gonna hold my weight down. Seven months! I don't know...
joey		We did what we had to do. Tommy don't forget. Sooner or later you'll get your shot -- if Tommy don't die.
bell captain		Mr. Williams.
detroit promoter		It's official. The fight's been postponed twenty-four hours.
joey		That's right. "No comment."  You like that? Good, 'cause I got a lot more "No comments" where that one came from.
jake		I can't eat a steak. If I eat a steak, I'm gonna have trouble making the weigh-in.
joey		So eat just a little. You gotta eat something.
jars		What am I gonna do for 24 hours? I can't even eat!
doctor		 How's that?
joey		How long did it take you?
doctor		45 seconds.
joey		No good. Try to get it down. It's gotta be no more than 30 seconds to be on the safe side if we gotta stitch him up.
joey		Jake, somebody wants to say hello to you.
como		Hey champ!
jake		Tommy, thanks for coming over.
como		You just take it easy, now. You'll do all right. Feelin' Ok?
jake		I'm Ok.
como		Just come by to wish you luck.  Need anything?
jake		No, we're all right. Thanks anyway, Tommy.
como		Ok, champ.
vickie		 I'll take care of him. Thanks, Tommy. Bye.
jake		 C'mere.
vickie		What did I do?
jake		 You don't kiss like that. Hello and goodbye, that's all you do.
vickie		All I did...
jake		 You know what I'm talking about. Don't ever make me look bad on the night of my big fight.
vickie		You're hurting my arm.
jake		Shut up. You just say hello and goodbye to him. You don't kiss him the way you did. That's out of line.
vickie		But Jake... I didn't say anything...
jake		Don't ever do that again. You don't  do it!
vickie		 Jake...
jake		You hear what I said? You don't do it.
joey		Jake, Jake...
jake		 She ain't gonna ruin this fight for me.
announcer		And here is the young man who has inherited Marcel Cerdan's European championship - Laurent Dauthuille.
announcer		And in this corner, the middleweight champion of the world, from Casablanca, Morocco, the Casablanca Clouter, Marcel Cerdan!
announcer		And in the opposite corner, from New York, New York, the challenger, the Bronx Bull, Jake LaMotta!
jaye		I only wish it was you, Joe.
joe louis		Win the belt back for us, Jake. Good luck.
joey		Look at him, Jackie! You got at! The fuckin' championship! He's yours! Finish him off.
announcer		The new middleweight champion of the world by a knockout after nine rounds, the Bronx Bull, Jake LaMotta!
jake		Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It's a thrill to be standin' here talking to you wonderful people. In fact, it's a thrill to be standin'. I haven't seen so many people since my last fight at Madison Square Garden. After that fight a reporter asked me, "Jake, where do you go from here?" I said, "To a hospital."
vickie		Jake, you're home.
joey		Hi, Vickie.
vickie		What's the matter with you?
jake		Tryin' to get this fuckin' TV to work. Paid all this money for it and still can't get a station a mile away. And Mr. Wizard here ain't no help.
joey		Screw you, Jack.
jake		 Where you been?
vickie		I went out.
jake		 What's that kissing on the mouth shit?
joey		What? I just said hello. Since when I can't kiss my sister-in-law?
jake		Ain't a cheek ever good enough for you? I never even kissed Mama on the mouth.
joey		Well, you're not supposed to kiss your mother on the mouth.
jake		Well, that's what I mean.
joey		I can't tell. You're stomach's in the way.
jake		Answer me somethin'. What happened at the Copa with Salvy when I was out of town?
joey		When?
jake		You know, when you gave him a beatin'.
joey		 Nothin'. Salvy was out of line. He was drunk or somethin', I dunno. Anyway, the windup was I gave him a beatin'. Tommy called me down, and we straightened it out. It's all forgotten about.
jake		Why didn't you tell me about it?
joey		It didn't have nothin' to do with you.
jake		Didn't it have nothin' to do with me?
joey		No, I just told you what happened.
jake		 Who did it have anything to do with... Vickie?
joey		Jack, no. I just explained the whole thing to you. It was just between me and Salvy, if it had anything to do with you and Vickie, I woulda told you about it.
jake		Well, I heard some things.
joey		"You heard some things." Will you stop worryin' about that shit? Forget about it. You know you got a title fight comin' up.
joey		 Whatever you touched, that's good now.
jake		Did Salvy fuck Vickie?
joey		What?
jake		You're supposed to keep an eye on her for me. I'm askin'...
joey		 I did keep an eye...
jake		Then why did you give him a beatin' if he didn't do anything? You and him been friends a long time.
joey		Some things changed between us. Now, he thinks who the fuck he is. He's been passing certain remarks that I don't like.
jake		 Don't bullshit me, Joey. You ain't tellin' me the truth.
joey		What bullshit? Hey, I'm your brother. You wanna believe me - you trust me?
jake		When it comes to her, I don't trust nobody. I'm askin' you somethin'.
joey		Well, you're wrong Jack. I'm tellin" you what happened. He got outta line, we had a fight, and it's staightened out now.
jake		 You givin' me that look. I gotta accept your word, but if I find out anythin', I'm gonna kill somebody...
joey		 So, go ahead. Kill everybody. Kill Salvy, kill Vickie, kill Tommy Como, kill me while you're at it. What do I care? You're killing yourself the way you're eating, the way you worry about things you don't have to worry about.
jake		 What do you mean, "you"?
joey		What?
jake		 What do you mean, "you"?
joey		 I meant, kill everybody. You or me or anybody. You're a big shot. Kill, kill... g'head.
jake		But you said "you."
joey		So what?
jake		Eh, Joey, even you don't know what you meant. You mentioned Salvy, Tommy Como, you -- that means somethin'. Why'd you say them? You coulda said anybody.
joey		You're worried about this girl, you're gonna let this girl ruin you're life for you... You wanna worry, worry about your fuckin' stomach that you can't bend over -- that you gotta step in the ring in a month.
jake		Did you ever fuck my wife?
joey		What?
jake		I don't mean now. I mean before -- before we met.
joey		Whadda ya mean?
jake		Did you ever fuck my wife?
joey		Whatsa matter with you?
jake		You're very smart, Joey, very smart. Nobody gives me a straight answer around here. You're givin' me these answers, but you still didn't answer my question. Did you fuck Vickie?
joey		 I gotta go. I gotta get outta here. I can't take this shit. Lenore is waitin' for me. I gotta go. You're a definite wacko. You're fuckin' crazy, you know that, crazy.
jake		Where you been all day?
vickie		I took the kids to my sister's.
jake		I called. You weren't there.
vickie		I got bored so I went to the movies.
jake		What'd you see?
vickie		I went to the movies.
jake		What'd you see?
vickie		"Father of the Bride."
jake		What was it about?
vickie		Oh, c'mon. For Christsake, do I have to tell you everything?
jake		Did you ever go to the Copa when I was away?
vickie		What're you talking about?
jake		Answer me when I talk to you. What happened that night?
vickie		 I am answering...
jake		 What do I have to do to get a straight answer around here.
vickie		Jake, no --
jake		 I know about you at the Copa. I know all about it.
vickie		I didn't do anything wrong. I swear. I just had a few drinks.
jake		 With Salvy, eh?
vickie		I went with Sandy and Vera. Salvy was there. 
jake		 Who've you been fuckin'?
vickie		 Nobody, I tell you. Jake stop it.
jake		You're a fuckin' liar.
vickie		All right, I fucked everybody! Go ahead, kill me, kill me.
jake		You did?
vickie		Yeah, I sucked his cock.
joey		 Don't hit your brother! Be nice.
jake		Was Vickie part of the deal with Tommy? Was my wife part of the deal? Tell me, was that it?
joey		Stop it. What're you, crazy?
jake		 You didn't tell me. You didn't tell me. You let me marry her. You let me marry her.
vickie		 You're killing him. You're killing him for nothing. Stop it.
jake		 Get the fuck outa here. Whadda you mean nothing'? You stupid bitch!
vickie		 I'm not afraid of you anymore. I don't care if you kill me like you're killing him. You're a sick animal.
jake		 You're the fuckin' animal! You ran around with every guy I knew while I was breakin' my ass for you.
vickie		 You're a sick maniac. A maniac! You belong in a mental hospital.
vickie		Well, he ain't dead in case you're interested.  I'm leaving tonight. I must have been crazier than you are for stayin' with you this long. You're hopeless. You're not gonna let anybody love you. I kept thinking that you'd change when you got to be the champ... But I just can't take it anymore. I'm taking the kids and I'm leavin'.
jake		Aw, Vickie, aw Vickie, please no. Vickie, no... don't leave me. Christ, I'm pleading... I know, I know all the bad things, but I need you. I'm a bum without you and the kids. I'll change. Aw, Vickie, maybe I don't do it the right way, but I love you. I love you.
vickie		You know, if there's one thing -- I just don't understand you, not one single little bit. You love me?
jake		Yeah --
tony		It ain't worth it, Jake. Get out.
jake		 What time is it?
tony		Nine o'clock.
jake		At night?
tony		Yeah. At night.
jake		How many pounds I gotta lose?
tony		Three more, I figure.
jake		Just give me a chip of ice to put in my mouth. Just a chip of ice.
tony		I'll give you anything you want, Jake. I think you should come out for a few minutes -- give yourself a break.
jake		 Are you outa your mind? If I come out, I'll lose the title.
vickie		Jake, why don't you just try lying down and get some rest.
jake		I don't know what it is. I dunno, it's the kind of thing that -- the words won't come out.
vickie		Jake --
jake		What?
vickie		I want to say something to you without you blowing your stack.
jake		OK. Talk.
vickie		 Why don't you just call him up?
jake		What do I say to him? Call him up on the phone and say, "Joey, I'm sorry about that little trouble we had. How about havin' dinner?" Is that what I say?
vickie		No, not that.
jake		Then what?
vickie		 I don't know.
ringside announcer		... Ladies and gentlemen, I've sat in front of these microphones for over twenty years but this is the strangest championship bout I've ever seen. With two minutes to go in the final round, the champion, the mighty Bull from the Bronx, is just simply taking punch after punch from the challenger. Dauthuille scores a combination, then backpedals. LaMotta pursues him. One minute to go. Laurent DauthuiLlle, who has already beat Lamotta in a non-title bout, is about to fulfill a dream -- to bring the middleweight crown back to France.
announcer		The middleweight champion, and still champion by a knockout in fifteen rounds, the Bronx Bull, the Raging Bull, Jake LaMotta!
jake		 I miss Joey. I wish Joey was here.
vickie		Why don't you just call him?
jake		I dunno.
vickie		Tell him how you feel -- you miss him. Tell him you're sorry.
jake		 Ok, all right. Telephone's in the hall. Dial his number.
the hallway		As the number starts to ring, VICKIE hands the phone to JAKE.
jake		 ... Dauthuille! He was tough, but I beat him... I had to! I mean, how would it sound losin' to a guy whose name you can't even pronounce? But... Robinson. I can say that alright. I fought Sugar Ray so many times it's a wonder I don't have diabetes! Linda... get me another drink! Linda's the most popular waitress here... you can tell by her tips! She's the kinda girl I go for. You oughta see the ones I get.
lenore		Look at that. The sonofabitch is outboxing Robinson.
joey		I can't believe he's getting that jab in.
pabst commercial		"Friend, the quality that has carried Pabst Blue Ribbon around the world is yours for the asking. Next time that friendly bartender says, 'What'll you have?' give him the answer the whole world gives, Pabst Blue Ribbon!"
jake		He ain't hurting me, but I can't get him down.
tony		Don't talk. Keep at it. Jab, jab, jab. You're ahead on points.
tv announcer		LaMotta's on queer street, but he's still standing. Robinson throws a right, a left, a right, a right and a right again! How can LaMotta stay on his feet?
jake		You never knocked me down. You could never knock me down.
robinson		So what?
jake		I'm pulling out of next Wednesday's TV bout 'cause I can't make the weight. I'm fighting at light heavyweight, and I still can't make the weight.
reporter		Does that mean...
jake		It means I'm through with boxing. I'm tired with tryin' to make the weight anymore. I'm sick of thinkin' about weight, weight, weight.
reporter		You sound bitter.
jake		Why should I be bitter? Boxing's been good to me. I got a nice house, three kids, a beautiful wife -- take a picture of her. Vickie.
reporter		What do you think of Jake's retirement, Mrs. LaMotta?
jake		I also bought a club on Collins Avenue, and I'm gonna open it real soon. Know what I'm gonna call it? "Jake LaMotta's."
jake		Valentine's Day. The anniversary of the St. Valentine's Day Massacre. Robinsin didn't use a machine gun but it was still a massacre...  You're laughin'. Give me the right key and I'll play in anybody's flat! I sing for a reason. When I finish, you'll be so sobered up, we'll sell a lot of booze.
jake		 Sorry, empty! Heh, heh! Oh, I didn't mean that. If I don't give your husband no money, he won't have enough to buy you a drink. To show you I'm a nice guy, this one's on me. The last one was your payment for this month.
jake		Yeah, I really cleaned up on him.
jake		Do you think I'd let her in a place like this with guys like you hangin' around?
jake		Hey, Ricky, glad you came.
ricky		Wouldn't miss it, Jake.
jake		Hey, honey, give these fellas a round on me. I can tell they're gonna be regular customers.
waitress		I'll have to ask for your I.D.
jake		Whew! Any girl that can kiss like that can drink in my club any time!
vickie		Jake.
jake		I'm sorry. I had to work late last night. Slept at the club.
vickie		I'm leaving your Jake.
jake		Sure, what else is new?
vickie		No. This time it's true. I didn't bother to tell you until I had everything worked out.
jake		Open the door, Vickie.
vickie		No. I won't talk to you where you can use your hands on me.
jake		Aw, c'mon. Don't say that.
vickie		I got a lawyer, Jake. We're getting a divorce. I'm getting custody of the kids.
jake		Aw, c'mon, Vick --
vickie		I'm sick of it. I can't watch you this way. You're too drunk all the time. There's too many girls. I can't... I don't wanna talk about it. I made up my mind.
jake		Huh? Whadda ya mean, get up?
jake		 I know where you're from. You guys look the same every place.
jake		About what?
jake		For what?
jake		Hey, I'm a big tax payer down here. Don't that entitle me to some information what this is all about?
jake		I dunno.
jake		I introduced a lot of people to men. So what? What does that mean?
jake		Vickie, open up. I need to come in.
vickie		Are you drunk?
jake		No. Open the door.
vickie		The kids are sleeping.
jake		I promise I just gotta pick up one thing.
vickie		All right, just don't make any noise.
vickie		What are you doing?
jake		I need ten thousand dollars. My lawyer says if we can spread ten thousand bucks around, we can get the case dropped.
vickie		But they don't have a case against you.
jake		 Are you kiddin'? Did you ever see a 14-year-old testify in court? Did you see the papers? "LaMotta on Vice Rap." Everybody likes a shot at the Champ.
vickie		Jake, be careful! What're you doing to the belt?!
jake		Don't make no difference no more.
vickie		Can't you get the money from your friends?
jake		What friends?
jeweler		Didn't you also wish to sell the Championship Belt, Mr. LaMotta?
jake		That's it. Those are the jewels that were in the belt.
jeweler		But where's the belt?
jake		You want the jewels or the belt?
jeweler		Both. These stones are worth about fifteen hudred dollars, but the belt of a champion is a very rare item. The belt with the stones untouched would have been worth near five thousand dollars.
jake		 I can't raise the ten thousand. Fuck 'em. Let 'em put me on trial.
jake		So there I am in the can... and not the one that says "gentlemen" on the door. I'm talkin' about jail! Down south! I mean, jail up north is gotta be like summer camp compared to jail down in cracker country. And if you're a guy like me, you ain't got a chance in a place like that. Especially if you're Italian... you come from the Bronx... and you're an ex-champ. As soon as they saw me... soon as they heard me... I know I'm in trouble. To me, they got an accent, and to them, I got an accent! You gotta get the picture -- I'm big, I got small hands, I walk like I'm still in the ring... the balls of my feet pop up and down, you know... and whenever I get the chance, I read a lot. So naturally, takin' all this into co sideration, they figure it adds up to one thing -- I'm queer! Now I didn't mind too much when they called me "Queer" or "Mr. Tough Guy" or "Yankee Punk"... But one day these screws got to me... I was workin' on the work gang, pickin' up some trees that were knocked down by a storm or somethin' and puttin' 'em on this truck. All of a sudden... one of the trees slipped and fell on me and pinned me to the ground. I'm lyin' there with a tree across my chest! This screw walks over, takin' his time, he looks down at me and says, "Well, Champ Pimp... you lyin' down on the job again?"! They got a great sense of humor when they're standin' there with a gun in their arms and you got a tree on your chest! So I look up at him and say, "Oh, this tree... it fell on me." And he says, "Oh, I'm sorry... If I'd have known, I would've yelled 'timber'" I said, "Hey, look... it hurts. I think maybe I broke somethin'!" He says, "Well, whaddaya know... Champ PImp's got himself a boo-boo." Then I got as stupid as him. I said, "If I'm Champ Pimp... how 'bout givin' me the money you made last night?"! Then another screw comes over and says, "This Yankee creep givin' you trouble?" -- What kind of trouble? What am I gonna do -- hit 'em with the tree? Now anybody else in their right mind would've said, "No sir, I wouldn't think of giving any of you gentlemen trouble... I just want to serve my time and get the hell out of here as soon as I can." That's anybody else. When I said it... it was a little different. "You stupid cracker... take your hands off me or I'll get up and kick your brains out -- but first you gotta bend over so I can find 'em!" Next thing I know I'm in the hole. Solitary confinement. All my life I had guys in my corner yellin' "Go get 'em, jake... kill 'em! You're the greatest." Now there's nobody rootin' for me. But it wasn't so bad. I learned things there. I learned how to scratch a calendar on the wall. I never knew how to do that before. Now I know. Monday is one scratch. Tuesday is two scratches. Wednesday is three scratches. And so on. Except for Sundays. Sundays is no scratches. Sundays rested.
jake		 I'm a man, I'm a man. I'm no faggot. I'm not a faggot. Ma, why? What do they want? My cock's not enough. What do they want from me? Why? Ma? Why?
jake		Except here, gentlemen, with you bums. I call you "gentlemen"... but you know what you really are! You know, this place used to be pretty exclusive... now they got bouncers outside to throw the drunks in! My first night here I said to the boss, "Where's the toilet?" -- He said, "You're in it!" By the way, this engagement is just a stepping stone for me. If I do good here, I'm ready to get out of the business!
jake		Look, sweetie, be a good girl. Here's some money. Take a cab. Go home by yourself. Just wanna walk around a little, sort of unwind. OK?
emma		Will I see you later?
jake		Yeah. I dunno... I'll call you.
jake		Hey, Joey --
jake		You know, I'm not a philosopher or anything like that but I been around a little and the way I look at it is -- We're, all of us, lookin' for the same thing: a shot at the title. No matter what you wanta be... you wanta shot at bein' the best. Well, I had mine and it'll always be in the record books... it don't make no difference what happens to me from here on in -- I got my shot and that's a fact. Some guys weren't that lucky... like the one Marlon Brando played in "On the Waterfront" -- an up and comer who's now a down and outer. You remember... there was this scene in the back of the car with his brother Charlie, a small-time racket guy, and it went somethin' like this -- "It wasn't him, Charlie. It was you. You 'member that night in the Garden you came down my dressing room and said. 'Kid, this ain't your night. We're going for the price on Wilson.' You 'member that? 'This ain't your night!' My night -- I coulda taken Wilson apart! So what happens? He gets the title shot outdoors on the ballpark, and what do I get? A one-way ticket to Palookaville. I never was no good after that night. It was like a peak you reach. Then it went downhill. It was you, Charlie. You was my brother, Charlie. You shoulda looked out for me a little bit. You shoulda taken care of me just a little bit so I wouldn't have to take them dives for the short end money... You don't understand! I coulda had class. I coulda been a contender. I coulda been somebody -- instead of a bum, which is what I am. Let's face it. It was you, Charlie."
jake		How long do I have?
jake		OK.
****Dialogues from script :Raising_Arizona.txt****

voice over		My name is H. I. McDunnough...
voice over		...Call me Hi.
voice over		...The first time I met Ed was in the county lock-up in Tempe, Arizona...
voice over		...a day I'll never forget.
sheriff		Don't forget the profile, Ed!
woman		Turn to the right.
hi		What kind of name is Ed for a pretty thing like you?
ed		Short for Edwinna. Turn to the right!
hi		You're a flower, you are. Just a little desert flower.
hi		Lemme know how those come out.
voice over		I was in for writing hot checks which, when businessmen do it, is called an overdraft. I'm not complainin', mind you; just sayin' there ain't no pancake so thin it ain't got two sides. Now prison life is very structured - more than most people care for...
voice over		...But there's a spirit of camaraderie that exists between the men, like you find only in combat maybe...
con		Grrrr...
voice over		...or on a pro ball club in the heat of a pennant drive.
voice over		In an effort to better ourselves we were forced to meet with a counselor who tried to help us figure out why we were the way we were...
counselor		Why do you use the word "trapped"?
con		Huh?
counselor		Why do you say you feel "trapped" in a man's body?
con		Oh...
con		...Well, sometimes I get the menstrual cramps real hard.
chairman		Have you learned anything, Hi?
hi		Yessir, you bet.
woman		You wouldn't lie to us, would you Hi?
hi		No ma'am, hope to say.
chairman		Okay then.
voice over		I tried to stand up and fly straight, but it wasn't easy with that sumbitch Reagan in the White House...
voice over		...I dunno, they say he's a decent man, so...
voice over		...maybe his advisers are confused.
ed		Turn to the right!
hi		What's the matter, Ed?
ed		My fai-ants left me.
voice over		She said her fiance had run off with a student cosmetologist who knew how to ply her feminine wiles.
hi		That sumbitch.
hi		You tell him I think he's a damn fool, Ed. You tell him I said so - H.I. McDunnough. And if he wants to discuss it he knows where to find me...
hi		...in the Maricopa County Maximum Security Correctional Facility for Men...
hi		...I'll be waiting!
voice over		I can't say I was happy to be back inside, but the flood of familiar sights, sounds and faces almost made it feel like a homecoming.
con		Grrrr...
counselor		Most men your age, Hi, are getting married and raising up a family. They wouldn't accept prison as a substitute.
counselor		...Would any of you men care to comment?
gale		But sometimes your career gotta come before family.
evelle		Work is what's kept us happy.
voice over		I tried to sort through what the Doc had said, but prison ain't the easiest place to think.
moses		An' when they was no meat we ate fowl. An' when they was no fowl we ate crawdad. An' when they was no crawdad to be foun', we ate San'.
hi		You ate what?
moses		 We ate San'.
hi		You ate sand?!
moses		Dass right...
chairman		Well Boy, you done served your twenty munce, and seeing as you never use live ammo, we got no choice but to return you to society.
second man		These doors goan swing wide.
hi		I didn't want to hurt anyone, Sir.
second man		Hi, we respect that.
chairman		But you're just hurtin' yourself with this rambunctious behavior.
hi		I know that, sir.
chairman		Okay then.
voice over		Now I don't know how you come down on the incarceration question...
voice over		...whether it's for rehabilitation or revenge.
voice over		...But I was beginning to think...
voice over		...that revenge is the only argument makes any sense.
ed		Turn to the right!
voice over		They say that absence makes the heart grow fonder, and for once they may be right.
hi		You missed a spot.
con		Grrrr...
voice over		More and more my thoughts turned to Ed, and I finally felt the pain of imprisonment.
moses		An' momma would frow the live crawdad in a pot of boiln' water. Well one day I decided to make my own crawdad...
voice over		...an' I frew it in a pot, forgettin' to put in the water, ya see...
voice over		...and it was like I was makin' popcorn, ya see... The joint is a lonely place after lock-up and fights out...
voice over		...when the last of the cons has been swept away by the sandman.
voice over		But I couldn't help thinking that a brighter future lay ahead - a future that was only eight to fourteen months away.
chairman		Got a name for people like you, Hi. That name is called recidivism.
second man		Ree-peat O-fender.
chairman		Not a pretty name, is it, Hi?
hi		No Sir, it sure ain't. That's one bonehead name. But that ain't me anymore.
chairman		You're not just tellin' us what we wanna hear?
hi		No Sir, no way.
second man		'Cause we just wanna hear the truth.
hi		Well then I guess I am tellin' you what you wanna hear.
chairman		Boy, didn't we just tell you not to do that?
hi		Yessir.
chairman		Okay then.
hi		I'm walkin' in here on my knees, Ed - a free man proposin'.
hi		Howdy Kurt.
voice over		And so it was.
ed		I do.
hi		You bet I do.
minister		Okay then.
voice over		Ed's pa staked us to a starter home in suburban Tempe...
voice over		...and I got a job drilling holes in sheet metal.
bud		So we was doin' paramedical work in affiliation with the state highway system-not actually practicin', y'understand - and me and Bill's patrollin' down Nine Mile -
hi		Bill Roberts?
bud		 No, not that motherscratcher! Bill Parker! Anyway, we're approachin' the wreck, and there's a spherical object arestin' on the highway...
bud		...And it don't look like a piece a the car.
voice over		Mostways the job was a lot like prison, except Ed was waitin' at the end of every day...
voice over		...and a paycheck at the end of every week.
cashier		Gummint do take a bite, don't she?
voice over		These were the happy days, the salad days as they say...
voice over		...and Ed felt that having a critter was the next logical step. It was all she thought about.
voice over		...Her point was that there was too much love and beauty for just the two of us...
voice over		...and every day we kept a child out of the world was a day he might later regret having missed.
ed		That was beautiful.
voice over		So we worked at it on the days we calculated most likely to be fruitful...
voice over		...and we worked at it most other days just to be sure.
voice over		Seemed like nothing could stand in our way now...
voice over		...My lawless years were behind me; our child rearin' years lay ahead.
hi		It's true I've had a checkered past, but Ed here is an officer of the law twice decorated...
hi		...So we figure it kind of evens out.
voice over		...But biology and the prejudices of others conspired to keep us childless.
voice over		Our love for each other was stronger than ever...
voice over		...but I preminisced no return of the salad days.
voice over		The pizazz had gone out of our lives.
voice over		Ed lost all interest in both criminal justice and housekeeping. Soon after, she tendered her badge.
voice over		Even my job seemed as dry and bitter as a hot prairie wind.
bud		So here comes Bill a-walkin' down Nine Mile - that's Bill Parker, y'understand - got his sandwich in one hand, the fuckin' head in the other...
voice over		I even caught myself drivin' by convenience stores...
voice over		...that weren't on the way home.
voice over		Then one day the biggest news hit the state since they built the Hoover Dam...
voice over		...The Arizona quints was born.
voice over		By "Arizona" quints I mean they was born to a woman named Florence Arizona.
voice over		As you probably guessed, Florence Arizona is the wife of Nathan Arizona. And Nathan Arizona - well hell, you know who he is...
nathan arizona		 So come on down to Unpainted Arizona for the finest selection in fixtures and appointments for your bathroom, bedroom, beaudoir!
voice over		...The owner of the largest chain of unpainted furniture and bathroom fixture outlets throughout the Southwest.
nathan arizona		And if you can find lower prices anywhere my name ain't Nathan Arizona!
voice over		Yep, Florence had been taking fertility pills, and she and Nathan had hit the jackpot.
voice over		Now y'all who're without sin can cast the first stone...
voice over		...but we thought it was unfair that some should have so many while others should have so few.
voice over		With the benefit of hindsight maybe it wasn't such a hot idea...
voice over		...but at the time, Ed's little plan seemed like the solution to all our problems, and the answer to all our prayers.
nathan		 Eight hundred leaf tables and no chairs?! You can't sell leaf tables and no chairs! Chairs, you got a dinette set! No chairs, you got dick! I ask my wife she got more sense!...
nathan		...Miles, all I know is I'm away from the office to have me some kids and everything goes straight to heck! I ain't gonna stand for it!
voice over		...Yeah, and if a frog had wings he wouldn't bump his ass a-hoppin'! I'm sick of your excuses, Miles! It is now...
voice over		...8:45 in the p.m. I'm gonna be down to the store in exactly twelve hours to kick me some butt!
voice over		...Or my name ain't Nathan Arizona!
nathan		That sounds like Larry.
hi		Shhhh! Shh! Nice baby...
nathan		What're they, playing telephone?
nathan		...Whyn't you go up and check on 'em?
ed		What's the matter?!
hi		Sorry honey, it just didn't work out.
ed		What d'you mean it didn't work out?!
hi		They started cryin', then they were all over me...
hi		...It was kinda horrifying - Lemme in, honey.
ed		Course they cried! Babies cry!
hi		I know that now! Come on honey, we better leave -
ed		You go right back up there and get me a toddler! I need a baby, Hi; they got more'n they can handle!
hi		Aw honey I -
ed		Don't you come back here without a baby!
nathan		Christian Dior my butt...
nathan		...They pay money for that?
florence		Yes dear.
nathan		How're the kids?
florence		Fine dear.
nathan		Fuckin' kids, I love 'em.
ed		Which one ya get?
hi		I dunno. Nathan Jr., I think.
ed		Gimme here.
hi		Here's the instructions.
ed		Oh, he's beautiful!
hi		He's awful damn good. I think I got the best one.
ed		I bet they were all beautiful. All babies are beautiful!
hi		Yeah. This one's awful damn good though.
ed		Don't you cuss around him.
hi		He's fine, he is. I think it's Nathan Jr.
ed		We are doin' the right thing, aren't we Hi? - I mean, they had more'n they could handle.
hi		Well now honey we been over this and over this. There's what's right and there's what's right, and never the twain shall meet.
ed		But you don't think his momma'll be upset? I mean overly?
hi		Well a course she'll be upset, sugar, but she'll get over it. She's got four little babies almost as good as this one. It's like when I was robbin' convenience stores -
ed		I love him so much!
hi		I know you do, honey.
ed		 I love him so much!
hi		This is it young Nathan Jr. Just feast your eyes about, old boy!
ed		Don't be so loud around him, Hi.
hi		 Damn, I'm sorry honey.
ed		And don't you cuss around him.
hi		Aw, he don't know a cuss word from shinola.
ed		Well see that he don't.
hi		 He's all right, he is.
hi		...Come on over here, Nathan Jr., I'll show you around.
hi		...Lookahere, young sportsman. That - there's the kitchen area where Ma and Pa chow down. Over there's the TV, two hours a day maximum, either educational or football so's you don't ruin your appreciation of the finer things. This - here's the divan, for sociahzin' and relaxin' with the family unit. Yessir, many's the day we sat there and said wouldn't it be nice to have a youngster here to share our thoughts and feelin's -
ed		He's tired, Hi.
hi		Well we'll just sit you right there, boy...
hi		...Just put those dogs up'n take a load off.
hi		What are you kiddin'?! We got a family here!
hi		...He's a scandal, honey! He's a little outlaw!
ed		He's a good boy.
hi		He ain't too good! You can tell by that twinkle in his eye!
ed		Don't you think we should put him to bed?
hi		Hang on, honey...
hi		...Let's us preserve the moment in pictures!
ed		Just one, okay?...
ed		...I gotta tell ya, I'm a little scared.
hi		How come is that, honey?
ed		Well we got a baby, Hi. It's an awful big responsibility.
hi		Honey, could ya slide over a tad and raise the nipper up?
ed		I mean we never done this before and I'm kinda nervous.
hi		You're doin' real good, sugar.
ed		I love you, Hi.
hi		We're set to pop here, honey.
ed		You're gonna help, aren't ya?
hi		How's that, honey?
ed		Give Nathan Jr. a normal family background, just quiet evenings at home together...
hi		You can count on it, honey.
ed		...Everything decent'n normal from here on out.
hi		Uh-huh.
evelle		...Okay.
gale		What is it?
evelle		Mercury. Looks nice.
voice		Open up!
voice		...Open up in air!
voice		Open up! It's a police!
ed		Hi! What's goin' on?
voice		Po-lice, son! Open her up!
hi		Get in the bedroom.
ed		They ain't gonna take Nathan?!
hi		Well I'd like to see 'em fly.
voice		Open up and maybe we'll letcha plea- bargain.
hi's voice		...Honey! Come on out here! Want you to meet a couple friends of mine!
hi		Honey, like you to meet Gale and Evelle Snopes, fine a pair as ever broke and entered.
hi		...Boys, this - here's my wife.
gale		Ma'am.
evelle		Miz McDunnough.
ed		Kind of late for visitors, isn't it Hi?
hi		Well yeah honey, but these boys tell me they just got outta the joint. Gotta show a little hospitality.
gale		Well now H.I., looks like you been up to the devil's bidnis!
evelle		That a him or a her?
ed		It's a little boy.
gale		Got a name, does he?
hi		Well so far we just been using Junior.
ed		We call him Junior.
evelle		Say, thairs good - JR., just like on the Teevee.
gale		"Welcome... Home... Son." Where's he been?
hi		Tulsa.
ed		Phoenix.
hi		He was, uh... he was visiting his grandparents.
ed		They're separated.
gale		Was that yer folks ma'am?
ed		No, I'm afraid not.
gale		I thought yer folks was dead, H.I.?
hi		 Well we thought Junior should see their final resting place - Whyn't you boys have a seat?
ed		Hi, it's two in the morning...
ed		...What's that smell?
gale		We don't always smell like this, Miz McDunnough. I was just explainin' to yer better half here that when we were tunneln' out we hit the main sewer - dumb luck, that - and just followed that to -
ed		You mean you busted out of jail!!
gale		Waaaal...
evelle		We released ourselves on our own recognizance.
gale		What Evelle means to say is, we felt the institution no longer had anything to offer us.
gale		...My Lord he's cute.
evelle		He's a little outlaw, you can see that.
ed		Now listen, you folks can't stay here!
evelle		...Ma'am?
ed		You just can't stay! I appreciate your bein' friends of Hi and all, but this is a decent family now...
ed		...I mean we got a toddler here!
gale		Say, who wears the pants round here H.I.?
hi		Now honey -
ed		Don't you honey me. Now you boys can set a while and catch up, and then you'll be on your way.
gale		Gotcha on a awful short leash, don't she H.I.?
ed		They still here?
hi		Yeah, they're just gonna stay a day or two. It's raining out honey, they got nowhere to go.
ed		They're fugitives, Hi...
ed		...How're we gonna start a new life with them around?
hi		Well now honey you gotta have a little charity. Ya know, in Arab lands they'd set out a plate -
ed		Promise just a day or two.
hi		Tonight and tomorrow, tops.
voice over		That night I had a dream.
voice over		...I'd drifted off thinkin' about happiness, birth, and new life...
voice over		But now I was haunted by a vision of -
voice over		He was horrible...
voice over		...a lone biker of the apocalypse...
voice over		...a man with all the powers of her at his command.
voice over		...He could turn the day into night...
voice over		...and laid to waste everything in his path.
voice over		He was especially hard on the little things...
voice over		...the helpless and the gentle creatures.
voice over		He left a scorched earth in his wake, befouling even the sweet desert breeze that whipped across his brow.
voice over		I didn't know where he came from or why...
voice over		I didn't know if he was dream or vision...
voice over		But I feared that I myself had unleashed him...
voice over		...for he was The Fury That Would Be...
voice over		...as soon as Florence Arizona found her little Nathan gone.
hi		 He all right?
ed		He's all right. He was just havin' a nightmare.
hi		Yeah, well...
hi		...Sometimes it's a hard world for little things.
nathan		No, the missus and the rest of the kids've left town to I ain't sayin' where. They'll be back here when we're a nuclear fam'ly again.
voice		Mr. Arizona, which tot was abducted?
nathan		Nathan Jr., I think.
voice		Do you have anything to say to the kidnappers?
nathan		Yeah: Watch yer butt.
voice		Sir, it's been rumored that your son was abducted by UFOS. Would you care to comment?
nathan		 Now don't print that, son. If his mama reads that she's just gonna lose all hope.
policeman		We really have to ask you some more questions, sir...
nathan		But remember, it's still business as usual at Unpainted Arizona, and if you can find lower prices anywhere my name still ain't Nathan Arizona!
policeman		Mr. Byrum here can take your exemplars while you talk.
byrum		Just let your hand relax; I'll do the work.
nathan		What is this?! I didn't steal the damn kid!
policeman		Sir, these men are from the FBI-
nathan		 Are you boys crazy?! All I know is I wake up this morning with my wife screaming-
byrum		 We just need to distinguish your prints from the perpetrators', if they left any.
nathan		Course! I know that!
nathan		Yeah, I changed m'name; what of it?
nathan		Yeah, would you buy furniture at a store called Unpainted Huffhines?
uniformed cop		Was the child wearing anything when he was abducted?
nathan		No one sleeps nekkid in this house, boy! He was wear-
cop		If we're gonna put out an APB we need a description of the -
nathan		He was wearin' his-
nathan		A dinner jacket! Wuddya think, he was wearing his damn jammies!
nathan		Hell, they're all disgruntled! I ain't runnin' a damn daisy farm!
cop		What did the pajamas-
nathan		My motto is do it my way or watch your butt!
cop		What did the pajamas-
nathan		Don't make me laugh. Without my say- so they don't piss with their pants on fire.
cop		What did the pajamas look like?
nathan		 I dunno, they were jammies! They had Yodas'n shit on 'em!
nathan		Get your feet off m'damn coffee table!
nathan		Damnit, are you boys gonna go chase down your leads or are you gonna sit drinkin' coffee in the one house in the state where I know my boy ain't at?!
nathan		Gimme that!
nathan		That's a five-hundred-dollar camel's hair-
byrum		Sir, you might want to wash your hands at this point.
nathan		Well goddamnit!
nathan		...No leads?!
nathan		...Everyone leaves microbes'n whatnot!
nathan		...Hell, that's your forte, trackin' down them microbes left by criminals'n commies'n shit! That's yer whole damn raison d'itre! No leads?! I want Nathan Jr. back, or whichever the hell one they took! He's out there somewhere! Somethin' leads to him! And anyone can find him knows the difference between a lead and a hole in the ground!!
evelle		...Awful good cereal flakes, Miz McDunnough.
gale		...Whyncha breast feed him? You 'pear to be capable.
ed		Mind your own bidnis.
evelle		Ya don't breast feed him, he'll hate you for it later. That's why we wound up in prison.
gale		Anyway, that's what Doc Schwartz tells us.
hi		Boys.
evelle		Morni', H.I.
ed		...Hi.
hi		Oh yeah... Say boys, you wouldn't mind makin' yourself scarce for a couple hours this afternoon?
ed		We're havin' some decent friends over.
hi		Heh-heh... What Ed means to say is, seein' as you two boys are wanted, it wouldn't exactly do to have folks seein' you here - I mean for your own protection.
gale		Sure H.I.
evelle		Anything you say.
hi		Matter of fact honey, maybe I'll skip this little get-together myself, Glen won't mind, and I'll just duck out with the boys, knock back a couple of-uh, Co-Colas-
gale		Sure H.I.
evelle		We'd love to have ya.
hi		...Well... maybe that ain't such a hot idea either.
gale		 So many social engagements. So little time.
hi		Glen, Dot-
dot		Where's at baby? Where's he at?
glen		Go find him honey!
dot		Cut it out, Glen!
ed		 He's asleep right now.
glen		Shit, I hope we didn't wake it!
dot		Can I just sneak a peek-a-loo?
glen		Come on kids...
glen		...Get away from Mr. McDunnough's car.
dot		What's his name?
ed		Uh... Hi Jr. Till we think of a better one.
dot		Whyncha call him Jason? I love Biblical names. If I had another little boy I'd name him Jason or Caleb or- Oh!
dot		...He's an angel!
dot		...He's an angel straight from heaven! Now honey I had all my kids the hard way so you gotta tell me where you got this angel. Did he fly straight down from heaven?
ed		Well-
dot		You gonna send him to Arizona State?
hi		Need a beer, Glen?
glen		Does the Pope wear a funny hat?
hi		...Well yeah, Glen, I guess it is kinda funny.
glen		Say, that reminds me! How many Pollacks it take to screw up a lightbulb?
hi		I don't know Glen, one?
glen		Nope, it takes three!
glen		...Wait a minute, I told it wrong. Here, I'm startin' over: How come it takes three Pollacks to screw up a lightbulb?
hi		I don't know, Glen.
glen		Cause they're so durn stupid!
glen		...Shit man, loosen up! Don't ya get it?
hi		No Glen, I sure don't.
glen		Shit man, think about it! I guess it's what they call a Way Homer.
hi		Why's that?
glen		Cause you only get it on the Way Home.
hi		I'm already home, Glen.
kid		You wetchaself! Mr. McDunnough wet hisseff, Daddy!
glen		Say, that reminds me! How'd you get that kid s'darned fast? Me'n Dottie went in to adopt on account of something went wrong with m'semen, and they told us five years' wait for a healthy white baby! I said healthy white baby! Five years! Okay, what else you got? Said, two Koreans and one Negro born with the heart outside...
glen		...Yeah, it's a crazy world.
hi		Someone oughta sell tickets.
glen		Sure, I'd buy one.
glen		...That Buford's a sly one. Already knows his ABCs. But I'm sayin', how'd ya get the kid?
hi		Well this whole thing is just who knows who and favoritism. Ed has a friend at one of the agencies.
glen		Well maybe she can do something for me'n Dot. See there's something wrong with m'semen. Say, that reminds me! What you gonna call him?
hi		Uh, Ed-Ed Jr.
glen		Thought you said he was a boy.
hi		Well, as in Edward. Just like that name.
glen		 Yeah, it's a good one... Course I don't really need another kid, but Dottie says these-here are gettin' too big to cuddle. Say, that reminds me!
glen		Mind ya don't cutchaseff, Mordecai...
dot		...and then there's diphtheria- tetanus, what they call dip-tet. You gotta get him dip-tet boosters yearly or else he'll get lockjaw and night vision. Then there's the smallpox vaccine, chicken pox and measles, and if your kid's like ours you gotta take all those shots first to get him to take 'em. Who's your pediatrician, anyway?
ed		We ain't exactly fixed on one yet. Have we Hi?
ed		...No, I guess we don't have one yet.
dot		Well you just gotta have one! You just gotta have one this instant!
ed		Yeah, what if the baby gets sick, honey?
dot		Hi, even if he don't get sick he's gotta have his dip-tet!
ed		He's gotta have his dip-tet, honey.
hi		...Uh-huh.
dot		You started his bank accounts?
ed		Have we done that honey? We gotta do that honey. What's that for, Dot?
dot		That-there's for his orthodonture and his college. You soak his thumb in iodine you might get by without the orthodonture, but it won't knock any off the college.
dot		...Reilly, take that diaper off your head and put it back on your sister!... Anyway, you probably got the life insurance all squared away.
ed		You done that yet honey?
dot		You gotta do that, Hi! Ed here's got her hands full with that little angel!
hi		 Yes ma'am.
dot		What would Ed and the angel do if a truck came along and splattered your brains all over the interstate? Where would you be then?
ed		Yeah honey, what if you get run over?
dot		Or you got carried off by a twister?
glen		Hear about the person of the Polish persuasion he walks into a bar holdin' a pile of shit in his hands, says "Look what I almost stepped in."
hi		...Yeah, that's funny all right...
glen		Ya damn right it's funny! Shit man, what's the matter?
hi		I dunno... maybe it's wife, kids, family life... I mean are you, uh, satisfied Glen?  Don't y'ever feel suffocated? Like, like there's somethin' big pressin' down...
glen		 Eeeeeyep... I do know the feelin'.
hi		Dunno-
glen		And I told Dottie to lose some weight but she don't wanna listen!
glen		...No man, I know what you mean. You got all kinds a responsibilities now. You're married, ya got a kid, looks like your whole life's set down and where's the excitement?
hi		Yeah Glen, I guess that's it.
glen		Okay! That's the disease, but there is a cure.
hi		Yeah?
glen		Sure; Doctor Glen is tellin' ya you can heal thyself.
hi		What do I gotta do?
glen		Well you just gotta broaden your mind a little bit. I mean say I asked you, what do you think about Dot?
hi		 Fine woman you got there.
glen		Okay. Now it might not look like it, but lemme tell you something: She's a hellcat.
hi		That right?
glen		T-I-G-E-R.
hi		But what's that got to do with-
glen		Don't rush me!
glen		Now the thing about Dot is, she thinks- and she's told me this-
glen		...she thinks... you're cute.
hi		...Yeah...?
glen		I'm crappin' you negative! And I could say the same about Ed!
hi		What're you talkin' about, Glen?
glen		What'm I talkin' about?!  I'm talkin' about sex, boy! What the hell're you talkin' about?! You know, "L'amour"?! I'm talkin' me'n Dot are Swingers! As in "to Swing"! Wife-swappin'! What they call nowadays Open Marriage!
glen		I'm talkin' about the Sex Revolution! I'm talkin' about-
hi		Keep your goddamned hands off my wife!
glen		Shit man!
glen		...I was only tryin' to help!
hi		Keep your goddamned hands off my wife!
glen		You're crazy! I feel pity for you, man!  You-
ed		We finally go out with some decent people and you break his nose. That ain't too funny, Hi.
hi		 His kids seemed to think it was funny.
ed		Well they're just kids, you're a grown man with responsibilities. Whatever possessed you?
hi		He was provokin' me when I popped him.
ed		How'd he do that?
hi		...Never mind.
ed		But Hi, he's your foreman, he's just gonna fire you now.
hi		I expect he will.
ed		And where does that leave me and Nathan Jr.?
hi		With a man for a husband.
ed		That ain't no answer.
hi		Honey, that's the only answer.
hi		...Nathan needs some Huggies. I'll be out directly.
hi		...Mind you stay strapped in.
hi		I'll be taking these Huggies and whatever cash you got.
ed		"Not by the hair of my chinny-chin- chin." Then I'll huff and I'll puff...'
ed		"...and I'll blow your house in..."
ed		That son-of-a-bitch.
ed		You son-of-a-bitch!
hi		Better hurry it up. I'm in dutch with the wife.
ed		That son-of-a-bitch. Hang on, pumpkin.
hi		Honey!
speaker		Halt. It's a police warning, son. Put those groceries down and turn yourself in.
ed		That son of a bitch... Hold on, Nathan. We're gonna go pick up Daddy.
speaker		That's private property, son. Come back out to the street and reveal yourself to Officer Steensma and Officer Scott - that's me.
ed		That son of a bitch...
ed		...Lookie Nathan, a police car...
ed		...Say, that looks like Bill Steensma.
driver		Son, you got a panty on your head.
hi		Just drive fast...
hi		...and don't stop till I tell ya.
hi		...Honey!
hi		Mind the baby now!
ed		Hold on Nathan, we'll take a shortcut.
screamer		Can I stop now?
hi		Maybe you better.
hi		Thank you.
hi		Thank you honey, you really didn't have to do this-
ed		You son-of-a-bitch! You're actin' like a mad dog!
hi		Turn left, honey.
ed		What if me'n the baby'd been picked up? Nathan Jr. would a been accessory to armed robbery!
hi		Nawww honey, it ain't armed robbery if the gun ain't loaded-
ed		What kind of home life is this for a toddler?! You're supposed to be an example!
hi		Now honey, I never postured myself as the three-piece suit type - Turn left, dear.
ed		We got a child now, everything's changed!
hi		Well Nathan Jr. accepts me for what I am and I think you better had, too. You know, honey, I'm okay you're okay? That - there's what it is.
ed		I know, but honey -
hi		See I come from a long line of frontiersmen and - here it is, turn here dear - frontiersmen and outdoor types.
ed		I'm not gonna live this way, Hi. It just ain't family life!
hi		Well... It ain't Ozzie and Harriet.
ed		You two are leaving.
ed		Tomorrow morning. Now I got nothing against you personally...
ed		...but you're wanted by the authorities and you're a bad influence in this household, in my opinion.
gale		Well ma'am... we sure didn't mean to influence anyone.
evelle		And if we did, we apologize.
ed		I'm goin' in to town tomorrow to see about some shots for the baby. When I come back you better be gone or I'll kick you out myself.
evelle		...What's he need, his dip-tet?
hi		I'm awful sorry boys, but when Ed gets mad, you know, when she gets an idea...
gale		Well there ain't a thing to apologize for, H.I...
gale		...It seems pretty clear what the situation is here.
evelle		Yeah, I guess the Missus wants us to clear out.
gale		Now H.I., you'll pardon me for sayin' so, but I get the feelin' that this- here...
gale		...ain't exactly workin' out.
hi		Well now Ed's generally a real sweetheart, I-
gale		And as per usual, I wouldn't be surprised if the source of the marital friction was financial.
hi		Well, matter of fact, I did lose my job today-
evelle		Come on Hi. you're young, you got your health - what do you want with a job?
gale		But look, I'd rather light a candle than curse your darkness. As you know, Evelle'n I never go anywhere without a reason... and here we are in your little domicile. We come to invite you in on a score.
evelle		A bank, Hi.
hi		Aw boys, I don't-
gale		I know you're partial to convenience stores but, H.I., the sun don't rise and set on the corner grocery.
evelle		It's like Doc Schwartz says: You gotta have a little ambition. Why we just heard on the news how somebody snatched off one of the Arizona babies. Now there's someone thinkin' big.
gale		And here you are sittin' around on your butt playin' house with a - don't get me wrong, H.I., with a fine woman - but a woman who needs the button-down type.
hi		Well now that ain't really any of your-
gale		Just lookahere...
evelle		Picture of El Dorado, Hi.
gale		Though the locals call it the Farmers and Mechanics Bank of LaGrange. Looks like a hayseed bank and, tell you the truth, it is a hayseed bank. Except the last Friday of every financial quarter there's more cash in that bank than flies at a barbecue.
evelle		And guess what day it is tomorrow?
gale		Ya see, H.I., it's when the hayseeds come in to cash their farm subsidy checks.
evelle		A-One information.
gale		Got it in the joint from a guy named Lawrence Spivey, one of Dick Nixon's undersecretaries of agriculture.
evelle		He's in for solicitin' sex from a state trooper.
gale		Ordinarily we don't associate with that class of person, but...
gale		...he was tryin' to make brownie points with some of the boys.
hi		Boys, I can't -
evielle		We need someone handy with a scatter- gun to cover the hayseeds while we get the cash.
gale		Y'understand, H.I., if this works out it's just the beginning of a spree across the entire Southwest proper. We keep goin' 'till we can retire - or we get caught.
evelle		Either way we're fixed for life.
hi		Boys, it's a kind offer, but you're suggesting I just up'n leave Ed. Now that'd be pretty damn cowardly, wouldn't it.
gale		Would it?  Think about it, H.I. Seems to me, stayin' here, y'ain't doin' her any good. And y'ain't bein' true to your own nature.
voice over		My dearest Edwinna. Tonight as you and Nathan slumber, my heart is filled with anguish.
voice over		...I hope that you will both understand, and forgive me for what I have decided I must do. By the time you read this, I will be gone.
voice over		...I will never be the man that you want me to be, the husband and father that you and Nathan deserve...
voice over		Maybe it's my upbringing; maybe it's just that my genes got screwed up - I don't know...
voice over		But the events of the last day have showed, amply, that I don't have the strength of character to raise up a family...
voice over		...in the manner befitting a responsible adult, and not like the wild man from Borneo.
voice over		...I say all this to my shame.
voice over		...I will love you always, truly and deeply. But I fear that if I stay I would only bring bad trouble...
voice over		...on the heads of you and Nathan Jr.
voice over		I feel the thunder gathering even now; if I leave, hopefully, it will leave with me.
voice over		I cannot tarry...
voice over		Better I should go, send you money, and let you curse my name. Your loving... Herbert.
secretary's voice		I'm sorry, Mr. Arizona, he just barged in...
secretary's voice		...Should I call Dewayne?
nathan		Hell no, why wake the security guard. I'll take care a this.
biker		You got flies.
nathan		I doubt it. This place's climate- controlled, all the windows are sealed. Who the hell are you?
biker		Name of Leonard Smalls. My friends call me Lenny...
biker		...Only I ain't got no friends.
nathan		Stop, you'll make me bust out crying. Listen Leonard, you want some furniture or a shitbox, they're out on the sales floor.
smalls		Nooo, I ain't a customer, I'm a manhunter. Ordinarily. Though I do hunt babies, on occasion. Hear you got one you can't put your hand to.
nathan		What do you know about it?
smalls		Wal, that's my business. I'm a tracker- part Hopi Indian, some say part hound dog. When some dink skips bail, crashes outta the joint, I'm the man they call.
nathan		Mister, I got the cops, the state troopers and the Federal-B-I already lookin' for my boy. Now if you got information I strongly advise-
smalls		Cop won't find your boy. Cop couldn't find his own butt if it had a bell on it. Wanna find an outlaw, call an outlaw. Wanna find a Dunkin Donuts, call a cop.
nathan		Smalls, first off, take your damn feet off m'furniture. Second off, it's widely known I posted a twenty grand reward for my boy. If you can find him, claim it. Short of that what do we got to talk about?
smalls		Price. Fair price. And that ain't whatever you say it is; fair price is what the market'll bear. Now there are people, mind you, there are people in this land, who'll pay a lot more'n twenty grand for a healthy baby.
nathan		What're you after?
smalls		Give you an idea, when I was a lad I m'self fetched twenty-five thousand on the black market. And them's 1954 dollars. I'm sayin, fair price. For fifty grand I'll track him, find him-
smalls		...and the people that took him...
smalls		...I'll kick their butts.
smalls		...No extra charge.
nathan		And if I don't pay?
smalls		Oh I'll get your boy regardless. Cause if you don't pay, the market will.
nathan		You wanna know what I think? I think you're an evil man. I think this is nothin' but a goddamn screw job. I think it's a shakedown. I think you're the one took Nathan Jr. and my fine friend, I think you're the one gonna get his butt kicked...
nathan		I think I'm on the phone to the cops right now, and I-
evelle		Come on, the missus'll be back from town soon.
hi		Where's the baby?
evelle		Bedroom, in his crib.
gale		He's sawin' toothpicks, he'll be fine.
gale		...You expectin' anybody?
hi		No. You two stay outta sight.
hi		Shit.
hi		Morning Glen.
glen		I ain't comin' in if ya don't mind. I'll just keep my distance.
hi		I didn't invite you in, Glen.
glen		Well don't even bother. First off, you're fired - and that's official.
hi		I kinda figured that, Glen.
glen		Well that ain't why I'm here neither. No sir. You're in a whole shitload of trouble, my friend.
hi		Why don't you just calm down, Glen.
glen		Why don't you make me?! Know that little baby you got in there? Remember him? I know what his real name is!
hi		Wanna keep your voice down, Glen?
glen		I'll pitch my voice wherever I please! His name ain't Hi Jr.! His name ain't Ed Jr.! But it's junior an right! Yes sir, it's Nathan Jr.!
glen		...Stay away from me, McDunnough!
glen		...Sure, you're an awful big man when you got somethin' around to clobber a guy with!
hi		 I ain't a big man.
glen		That's right! And now you're at my mercy!
glen		...I'm your worst nightmare!  I wanted to just turn you in for the re-ward. But Dot, she wants something to cuddle. So it looks like that baby's gonna be Glen Jr. From now on!
glen		...I'll give you a day to break the news to Ed...
glen		...Dot'll be by tomorrow to pick him up.
glen		...It's either that or jail. Oh and say, that reminds me! You'll find a doctor bill in the mail in a few days. I recommend you pay it!
hi		What's goin' on here.
gale		You know what's goin' on, H.I. It's just business. Now this can go either hard or easy-
ed		...Good.
hi		 I know you're worried honey but believe me, there ain't a thing to worry about. We're gonna get him back, there just ain't no question about that...
hi		...We'll get him back, that's just all there is to it. And you wanna know another thing?
hi		...I'm gonna be a better person from here on out. And that's final, I mean that's absolutely the way it's gonna be, that's official. You were right and I was wrong...
hi		...A blind man could tell you that. Now they ain't gonna hurt him, they're just in it for the score...
hi		...But I ain't like that no more, I'm a changed man. You were right and I was wrong. We got a family here and I'm gonna start acting responsibly...
hi		...So let's go honey...
hi		...Let's go get Nathan Jr.
gale		I luuuuv to drive.
evelle		You said somethin' there, partner.
gale		...Yessir, I figure with the ransom and this bank, you'n I'll be sittin' in the fabled catbird seat.
evelle		Uh, Gale... Junior had a, uh, accident.
gale		What's that, pardner?
evelle		He had a little accident.
gale		Wuddya mean, he looks okay.
evelle		No, ya see... Movin' though we are, he just had hisself a rest stop.
gale		Well it's perfectly natural.
evelle		 Hey Gale!
gale		What now?
evelle		...He smiled at me!
cashier		Welp. Around the butt, then up over the groin area-
evelle		I know where they go, old timer. I mean do I need pins or fasteners?
cashier		Well no, they got those tape-ettes already on there, it's self-contained and fairly explanatory.
evelle		Uh-huh...
evelle		...These blow up into funny shapes at all?
cashier		Well no. Unless round is funny.
evelle		All right, I'll take these too. Now you lie down back there-
cashier		Yessir!
evelle		And don't you move till you've counted up to eight hundred and twenty-five and then backwards down to zero. I'll be back to check - see y'ain't cheatin'.
evelle		Looks like I'm one of 'em.
evelle		Get the door, will ya?
gale		He's a real cheerful little critter once he warms up to ya.
evelle		Hurry up Gale...
evelle		I don't know how high this one can count.
evelle		I got him some baby grub... baby wipes... diapers, disposable... packet of balloons-
gale		They blow up into funny shapes at all?
evelle		No, just-
gale		Say, where's Junior?
evelle		Wuddya mean, didn't you put him in?!
gale		No, I thought-
gale		Where'd we leave him?!
evelle		NOOOOOO!!
cashier		...Seven hunnert ninety-seven one thousand, seven hunnert ninety-six one thousand...
cashier		...Seven hunnert ninety-one one thousand, seven hunnert - ah... bullshit.
cashier		Seven hunnert ninety - ought one thousand! Seven hundred eighty -
evelle		Promise we ain't never gonna give him up, Gale! We ain't never gonna let him go!
gale		We'll never give him up, Evelle. He's our little Gale Jr. now.
hi		...Ed, I realize I can't be much of a comfort to you. But lemme just say this...
hi		You'll feel a whole lot better when-
ed		I don't wanna feel better.
hi		Honey-
ed		I don't care about myself anymore. I don't care about us anymore. I just want Nathan Junior back safe.
hi		I know that-
ed		If we don't get him back safe, I don't wanna go on livin'. And even if we do, I don't wanna go on livin' with you.
ed		...I guess I still love you Hi; I know I do. I ain't even blaming you. The whole thing was crazy and the whole thing was my idea.
hi		Well, factually, I myself bear a very large-
ed		Lemme finish. Since those jailbirds took little Nathan I been doin' some thinking, and I ain't too proud of myself. Even if Mrs. Arizona had more'n she could handle, I was a police officer sworn to uphold the Constitution of the United States -
hi		Now waitaminute honey, you resigned before we-
ed		That ain't the point, Hi. We don't deserve Nathan Jr. Any more'n those jailbirds do. And if I'm as selfish and irresponsible as you-
hi		Y'ain't that bad, honey.
ed		If I'm as bad as you, what good're we to each other. You'n me's just a fool's paradise.
evelle		There she is.
gale		Yep. Welp...
gale		...Let's do her.
evelle		Waitaminute. What do we do with Gale Jr.?
gale		Wuddya mean, he waits here.
evelle		Are you crazy?!  He can't wait here by hisself. Supposin' we get killed in there - it could be hours before he's discovered.
gale		All right you hayseeds, it's a stick- up! Everbody freeze! Everbody down on the ground!
hayseed		Well which is it young fella? You want I should freeze or get down on the ground? Mean to say, iffen I freeze, I can't rightly drop. And iffen I drop, I'm a gonna be in motion. Ya see -
gale		SHUTUP!
hayseed		Yessir.
gale		Everone down on the ground!
evelle		Y'all can just forget that part about freezin'.
gale		That is until they get down there.
evelle		Y'all hear that?
gale		Wanna fill that sack, pardner? We got - shit!
gale		...Where'd all the tellers go?
voice		We're down here, sir.
evelle		They're down on the ground like you commanded, Gale.
gale		I told you not to use m'damn name! Can't you even try to keep from forget'n that?!
evelle		Not even yer code name?
gale		Oh yeah... m'code name.
evelle		Y'all hear that?
gale		All right now everone, we're just about ready to begin the robbery proper...
evelle		All right now everyone, you know how this works: Y'all stay flattened for ten full minutes...
evelle		...We might come back in five to check. That's for us to know and y'a to find out.
gale		Anyone found bipedal in five wears his ass for a hat.
gale		That old timer threw off my concentration. Otherwise it would a gone smoother.
evelle		We done okay. Yessir. This ought to split nicely three ways.
gale		Goddamnit! Ya never leave a man behind!
gale		Goddamnit H.I., ain't we got enough to contend with?
ed		Where's the baby?
evelle		I think we left him on the roof of the... he must be back at the...
gale		Let us come with you!
gale		...He's our baby too!
ed		What is he?
hi		...D'you see him too?
ed		I want that baby!
ed		Gimme that baby, you warthog from hell!
old timer		Just lie down on the floor, missie.
hi		Run along now, honey.
nathan		The hell is goin' on?
nathan		...Get away from there.
nathan		 Waitaminute...
nathan		...I ain't through with you. What're you doin' creepin' around here in the dark? You in with Smalls?
hi		...Scuse me?
nathan		Leonard Smalls, big fella rides a Harley, dresses like a rock star?
hi		No sir, that's who we saved him from. It's a long story.
nathan		Suppose you tell it.
hi		Well, sir, in a re-ward situation, they usually say no questions asked.
nathan		Do they.
nathan		...All right, boy, I guess you got a re-ward coming. Twenty thousand dollars...
nathan		...Or, if you need home furnishings, I can give you a fine of credit at any of my stores. Fact, that's the way I'd rather handle it, for tax reasons...
hi		Well-
nathan		But it's up to you.
hi		Tell you the truth, I think we'd prefer the ca-
ed		We don't want no reward.
ed		...We didn't bring him back for money.
nathan		Well, we could work it that way too.
ed		Could I just look at him a little bit more?
nathan		Be my guest, young lady... but would you mind tellin' me exactly how you-
nathan		...You took him, didn't you? Wasn't that biker a'tal.
hi		I took him, sir, my wife had nothin' to do with it. I crept in yon window and-
ed		 We both did it. We didn't wanna hurt him any; I just wanted to be a mama.
hi		It wasn't for money or nothin'. We just figured you had more'n you could handle, babywise. But I'm the one committed the actual crime sir, if you need to call the authorities-
nathan		Shutup boy, no one's callin' the authorities if there's no harm done.
hi		Thank you sir.
ed		Thank you sir.
nathan		Aw bullshit. Just tell me - just tell me why you did it.
ed		We can't have our own.
nathan		...Well lookit. If you can't have kids you gotta just keep tryin' and hope medical science catches up with you. Like Florence'n me - it caught up with a vengeance. And hell, even if it never does, you still got each other.
hi		Sir, those're kind words. But I think the wife and me are splittin' up...
hi		...Her point of view is we're both kinda selfish and unrealistic, so we ain't too good for each other.
nathan		Well ma'am, I don't know much but I do know human bein's. You brought back my boy so you must have your good points too. I'd sure hate to think of Florence leavin' me - I do love her so...
nathan		...You can go out the way you came in...
nathan		...And before you go off and do another foolish thing, like busting up, I suggest you sleep on it...
nathan		...at least one night.
voice over		That night I had a dream...
voice over		...I dreamt I was as light as the ether, a floating spirit visiting things to come...
voice over		The shades and shadows of the people in my life wrastled their way into my slumber.
voice over		I dreamt that Gale and Evelle had decided to return to prison...
voice over		...Probably that's just as well. I don't mean to sound superior, and they're a swell couple guys, but...
voice over		...maybe they weren't ready yet to come out into the world.
voice over		And then I dreamed on, into the future, to a Christmas morn in the Arizona home...
voice over		...where Nathan Jr. was opening a present from a kindly couple who preferred to remain unknown.
voice over		I saw Glen, a few years later, still havin' no luck gettin' the cops to listen to his wild tales about me'n Ed...
voice over		...Maybe he threw in one Pollack joke too many...
voice over		...I don't know.
voice over		And still I dreamed on...
voice over		...further into the future than I'd ever dreamed before.
voice over		...Watching Nathan Jr.'s progress from afar...
voice over		...Taking pride in his accomplishments as if he were our own...
voice over		...Wondering if he ever thought of us.
voice over		...and hoping that maybe we'd broadened his horizons a little, even if he couldn't remember just how they'd got broadened.
voice over		But still I hadn't dreamt nothin' about me'n Ed. Until the end...
voice over		...And this was cloudier 'cause it was years, years away.
voice over		...But I saw an old couple bein' visited by their children - and all their grandchildren too. And the old couple wasn't screwed up, and neither were their kids or their grandkids. And I don't know, you tell me. This whole dream, was it wishful thinking? Was I just fleein' reality, like I know I'm liable to do?
voice over		...But me'n Ed, we can be good too...
voice over		...And it seemed real. It seemed like us. And it seemed like well... our home... If not Arizona, then a land, not too far away, where all parents are strong and wise and capable, and all children are happy and beloved... I dunno, maybe it was Utah.
****Dialogues from script :Rambling_Rose.txt****

willcox hillyer		I see. Outside it.
dave wilkie		That's correct -- outside it, not in it. As for the job, well, the Jewboy suppliers give me a lot of grief and we use a pile of niggers to haul and tote and they ain't worth a sorry-ass damn.  ... but she never believed that. Oh, hell, no, she never believed in me.
willcox hillyer		Um-m, well...
willcox hillyer		 Dave, you are as full of shit as a Christmas turkey and you know it. Now if you want to start a fight on this plane and get yourself in jail, go right ahead. But I am telling you, you are full of shit right up to your eyeballs.
buddy		Sure. Let me take your suitcase.
waski		You can stop it right now.
rose		 Yes, sir.
mother		 Oh. Did you say something?
waski		I do, too.
daddy		 All right, darlin', don't go off into the fourth dimension.
buddy		It's really pitiful. She's in bad shape.
doll		She's watching the car again?
buddy		Yeah.
doll		I get so irritated with Daddy. He's so dumb sometimes.
waski		Yeah, I know.
buddy		Oh, Waski, you don't know anything.
waski		I do, too!
buddy		All right, what do you know?
waski		Rose is madly in love with Daddy...
doll		 Well, don't tell Mother.
waski		Do you think I'm crazy?
daddy		 Rosebaby Blossom, these are the most delicious candied yams I ever ate! Why, they just melt in my mouth. And this fried chicken is fit for a king. How do you do it, Peachbird? What is the secret of your art, Plum Blossom, huh?
rose		 Oh, I don't know, I... I...
mother		 Rose, you're in an awful dither tonight. What's the matter with you, honey, are you sick or something?
rose		 No, ma'am, I'm just fine.
daddy		 Hmmp. Did you realize there are a thousand Coca-Cola millionaires in Atlanta?
buddy		There goes Mother.
doll		Yeah.
doll		Okay.
doll		I think she's gonna kiss him.
buddy		At least.
rose		Yes, crazy about you! Kiss me, Mr. Hillyer!
daddy		 All right, all right. Now calm down, Rose, the children will hear you. Calm down, let's talk... about this thing, let's discuss it.
rose		 Don't make me... me... me... get up!
doll		 Ohhh-hh... what's happening now?
buddy		 He's trying to get up -- good God, one of her titties is out!
buddy		Is that all?
daddy		All right, that is enough of this nonsense, and I mean enough! Get up off this floor, Rose, and put your damned tit back in your dress! Do you hear me, girl, get up off of that floor!
rose		Ohh-hhh... ohh...
buddy		No, I'm awake. What's the matter?
buddy		 But, Rose, what is the cause of it all?
rose		Promise not to tell Doll? -- or nobody? Buddy, it's your Daddy! I'm so much in love with him I am out of my mind!
buddy		But, Rose, how could such a thing as that happen?
rose		I fell madly in love with him when he called me Rosebud. You know that first day when I come and he said I looked graceful like a capital letter S and called me Rosebud? I fell madly in love with that man right then.  But it's a lost love, Buddy. He's a good man and won't have nothin' to do with me.
buddy		Can I put my hand inside your nightgown, Rose?
buddy		Rose, can't I see what the nipple on it is like?
rose		 Buddy, what's come over you? A child like you, askin' such things.
buddy		But I'm curious, Rose.
buddy		 It was softer'n I thought, that was my main impression. You know, if you hit a girl there it would hurt her a lot.
buddy		Can't I touch it a little, Rose -- not a lot, just a little?
buddy		Please, Rose. I'm curious, that's all, I have a natural curiosity, it's only human. You're my friend, aren't you? Don't you like me?  I like you, Rose, a lot -- in fact, I love you.
rose		Ohh-hh, ohhh-hh...  Ouch! Oh-hh... ohh...
buddy		 I said I wouldn't.
rose		 Buddy, I have to ask you, as bad as I've been please have pity on me and don't ruin me by telling them what I did. I know it was bad, it was bad and dumb. But mostly it was dumb, I didn't mean you no harm, I'd never want to hurt a hair on your head and that's the truth. I love you. But they'd think I did, they'd think I was awful, they'd despise me and hate me...
mother		This isn't punishment, I don't believe in punishment. It's for your health. Obviously you're sick if you can act like that.
buddy		 Mother, cant you make it calomel instead of castor oil?
mother		This is for your own good. When you look at negative, destructive things like those little filthy comic books, you are sick. Here, take this.
buddy		 Geccch, yehh, guhhhh!
mother		No, you didn't say that, Brother.
buddy		Shut up, Doll. I'll cut your guts
waski		 He did lie, and... and... and Mother, yesterday he stole money out of your pocketbook!
buddy		Quiet, you little muddy-eyed brat, or Ill kill you!
mother		Children, children! Be quiet, all of you!  The vibrations in this house are strange today. Where's Rose, anyhow?
buddy		She's getting herself up to go out.
mother		Oh, yes, it's Thursday.  ... my, you're... looking pretty...
daddy		 That farmer in Gadsden was awful eager to get rid of her, and I'm beginning to see why.
mother		 In a perfectly proper way, of course.
daddy		Yes, of course.
rose		My rose. It's kind of like a motto. People will say, there comes Rose with her rose.
daddy		You were up late last night, Brother.
buddy		Well, a little.
daddy		Reading dirty comic bocks.  And you admitted it?
buddy		 Well, yeah.
rose		My feet sure do hurt.
daddy		She has made contact.
daddy		I never saw anything like it. How did she pick him up so fast?
buddy		I don't know.
daddy		The girl strikes like a cobra.
rose		 Mrs. Hillyer, I don't know who he is, I really don't.
rose		 Well, he might be that man who followed me home from the store the other day. But I don't know who he is, Buddy, I really don't.
rose		 Oh... oh... oh! I think... maybe... one of 'em... was Foster... but I don't hardly know him!
daddy		Oh, shut up, Rose. Shut your mouth and quit crying!
mother		 I will not sit here and listen to you be brutal to this poor girl.
daddy		I am not being brutal to her!
mother		You certainly are! She has an awful toothache, look at her jaw, it's all swollen.
daddy		 Darlin', it is not my fault if the girl has epizootics --
mother		Scoundrels? They weren't scoundrels, they were just boys.
mother		Yes! Yes, I say that to you, they were boys! Boy friends of Rose, chat's what they were, and why shouldn't she have boy friends? Do you want her to be unnatural? Don't you think she's human the same way you are yourself? It's the South, that's what it is, the South with its horrible traditions, of slavery and crime and the oppression of women, who are just as good as men and just as human!
rose		 Ohhh-hh, ohhh...
mother		Poor thing. Does the ice help, Rose?
rose		Ohh-hh, a little. Oh-h, I ain't never been to no dentist before. He's gonna kill me, I just know it.
mother		No, Rose, he'll help you.
rose		 Never again, never again...
mother		 I know it was bad, honey. I'm sorry...
mother		 Well, she does seem to cause a lot of trouble, I admit. But she doesn't mean any harm and it'll break the children's hearts, they all love her.
daddy		Well, I have a pretty good idea.
doll		What's happening?
rose		 Pray for me...
daddy		Rosebud looked pretty pitiful in that bed.  I hope she'll be all right, but I still think we ought to fire her.
rose		 Yeah, it's kinda nice.
daddy		Rose! Rose! Open this goddamn door! Open it or I'll break it down!
buddy		Daddy, what's the matter?
daddy		No, she doesn't, she's fine, fine. She's perfectly healthy, don't give her ideas.
daddy		 This is a total catastrastroke. As of this moment I am stumped, I admit, I am stumped and treed both, the hound dogs have me surrounded.
mother		 But she must know... unless... unless... Rose, was there more than one person?
daddy		 In the shock of this brilliant move, I forgot something.
rose		 I haven't had my period for three months and my stomach is getting big.
daddy		 I don't believe it.
rose		It's so, Mr. Hillyer.
daddy		All right, damn it. We've seen you with your clothes off around here, stand up and pull up your dress and let's take a look!
mother		Honey!
daddy		She doesn't have to take her panties off, we can see her stomach with 'em on. All she has to do is pull up her dress and let us see her belly.
buddy		I gotta find out what they're saying. You lie back and rest, Rose, and I'll give you a report on it.
mother		 Yes, go on.
daddy		 Well, now, darlin'... give me a chance to defend myself.
mother		 Better off? How could she ever find love and happiness, if you did what you're talking about? Are you insane?
mother		 No, Waski, she won't die, because we are praying for her.
daddy		 Well, I thought I'd seen the limit, but these are the most great, gaga epizootics she's ever had.
rose		 I guess I'll work as a waitress, Buddy. I done that before and it got me in worse trouble than you could know, but I can't stay here no more. Why did you get rid of your rabbits, Buddy?
buddy		 Well, that doctor said you got protein somewhere and I guess he was right.
daddy		Why, that looks like Dave Wilkie,
rose		And who do you suppose he is? That policeman who arrested me, the one I bit! He is Mr. Right!
rose		 Okay.
rose		 Oh, Mr. Hillyer! I just can't stand to say goodbye!
mother		 Maybe Brother is right. Maybe so.
daddy		Are they polar bears, too?
daddy		 Yeah, I know, he was up here. It's pitiful like you say. When he lost Rose it ruined the man, it destroyed him totally when he lost Rose.
daddy		 A wonderful woman, boy.
willcox hillyer		All right, Daddy. We have our drink, we're out on the patio, you have prepared me for it. Rose's cancer has come back, hasn't it?
willcox hillyer		I'm not blubbering.
****Dialogues from script :Rambo__First_Blood_II__The_Mission.txt****

lewis		Shit.  Maintenance never gets down here.
singleterry		So what am I supposed to do?  Can't transfer him to Leavenworth.  He's civilian.  So I put him in an isolation cell that hasn't been used since the Spanish Inquisition.
trautman		Maybe you should have tried cutting him some slack.
trautman		 What's that?
singleterry		Tranquilizer syrette gun.  Borrowed it from the Animal Control Department.
trautman		Gimme a break.  Open it.
lewis		 Thinks he's the fucking Prince of Darkness.
trautman		At ease, Rambo.
trautman		 Wait outside.
trautman		Hello, John.
rambo		Colonel.
trautman		Mind if I sit down?
trautman		 I hear you're not enjoying it here.
rambo		I could take it or leave it.
trautman		Seems like I'm always pulling you out of some goddamn toilet or other, doesn't it?
rambo		Am I out of here?
trautman		That depends on you.  Christ, look at you.  I give you this easy duty until I can get you an assignment... all you have to do is eat ice cream and watch soap operas... and you have to make it Rambo's last stand.
rambo		There were treating me like a headcase.
trautman		Hard to believe.  You shoot up one little town in Oregon with a fifty caliber machine gun... one little dogpatch town... and everybody figures your wrapper's broken.  No sense of humor.  What did you expect?  An engraved plague from the chamber of commerce?
rambo		In 'Nam I flew gunships.  Million dollar equipment.  Back here nobody trusts me to park cars.  I keep thinking it's going to be okay... but I've been out six years and it's not okay.  Sometimes I feel like I'm coming right out of my skin.
trautman		This your stuff?
rambo		That's it.  My life.
trautman		Hardcore outfit.  The best I ever trained.
rambo		 Those men are all dead.
trautman		 You're not.
trautman		 Congressional Medal of Honor.
rambo		 Yeah.  Big time.
trautman		Plus, what else?  Two Silver Stars, four Bronze Stars, two Soldier's Medals, four Vietnamese Crosses of Gallantry and... uh, a handful of Purple Hearts.
rambo		Five.  I never wanted that stuff.
trautman		What did you want?
rambo		 After all that.
trautman		You just picked that wrong war to be a hero in.
trautman		 Let's take a walk.
trautman		Jason Kirkhill... John Rambo.
kirkhill		Good to meet you, Rambo.  How are you?
rambo		 You a spook?
kirkhill		That's right.  CIA Special Operations Division.
rambo		I don't work with spooks.  Not after that op in Cambodia.
kirkhill		I'm authorized to get you out of here.  I thought that's what you wanted.
rambo		 What's the job?
kirkhill		Classic special forces op... hit fast... in and out.  Two men.  Two days.
rambo		Why me?
kirkhill		 At least the computer at Langley likes you.  Pulled your file because of various factors.  Service record. Area familiarity.
rambo		Where?
kirkhill		Not yet.
rambo		I'm not jumping blind.
kirkhill		It's yes or no.  In or out... now. If it's "out," we will not have had this conversation.  If you come in, you will not be working for us.  No knowledge.  No comment.  Do you understand?
trautman		 Tell him.  I'll take responsibility.
kirkhill		North Vietnam.  What they call the Democratic Republic of Vietnam now.
trautman		We left some people behind there, John... POWs.
rambo		This just occurred to somebody, now?
kirkhill		We don't leave our men, Rambo.
rambo		You got it.  I'm in.
kirkhill		This is your mission packet...
aide		 Sign here, please.  And here.
kirkhill		Memorize it here.  It doesn't leave this room.
kirkhill		 The twenty-four hundred American servicemen missing in action in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia are officially listed "Presumed Killed." Certainly most of them are.
kirkhill		 But reports keep filtering in. Sightings by refugees.  Nothing verified.  Finally, we feel we've got enough to proceed on.
kirkhill		 Memo E-7 on top will cover the details.  An abandoned Vietnamese Army base in the North-central highlands may have a compound used as an internment camp.  As you can see the intelligence is soft.  These LANDSAT photos show huts... barracks.  It could be anything.
rambo		 What's the plan?
kirkhill		This operation is in two phases. Recon and rescue.  You are phase one.  Your two-man team will probe the site, confirm the presence of American POWs, if any, make photographic and tactical observations, then proceed to the extraction point without engaging the enemy.
rambo		We don't try to pull out any of our guys if we find them?
kirkhill		Negative.  Absolutely not.  The phase two assault team will get them out.
rambo		 We just take pictures?
kirkhill		Don't look so disappointed.  It should be hairy enough... even for you.
man		Sorry old buddy, I saw it first.
man		 I kinda got an important date.
man		No problem.  We'll share it.  Get your tail in there, sweet thing.
man		 Indra Hotel.  And don't take the scenic route, Smiley... I know my way around this burg.  Comprende?
rambo		 Same place for me.
man		Ah, you fair flower of the Orient.
man		 She thinks everything I say is funny.  Don't you, Angel-pie?  Man, Thai women are the best.  Got the kinda legs I like... feet at one end and pussy at the other.
man		 You don't say a helluva lot, do you, pal?  You speak English?
rambo		 Sometimes.
thai girl		You got money?  I stay you whole week.
man		Sweet thing, there's nothin' I'd like more than to wugga-wugga with you for a week, but tonight's all we got.
man		 See, I'm on this secret mission, and tomorrow mornin' I head out to...
rambo		That's enough, Brewer.
brewer		 Ke-rist!
rambo		 Get out.  Now!
brewer		 Jeez, I never would have guessed. You undercover, Lieutenant?  Great disguise.
brewer		 He says he's team leader on this show.
trautman		That's correct.
brewer		 Begging the Colonel's pardon but I understood I was up to lead my next mission.
trautman		Not this one.  You're on communications and camera.  Same image-intensified gear you used in El Salvador last year.
rambo		This clown almost blew mission security on the street.  I'm not jumping with him.
brewer		 Clown?  Now back up there, buddy...
trautman		 Listen up.  You two are married as of now.  Get used to it.
rambo		 I say we tape him to a chair.
kirkhill		I didn't know you were a stick man, Rambo.
rambo		I was crossed-trained in gunships.
trautman		 How long have you been setting up?
kirkhill		About 22 hours on site.
trautman		Nice work.
kirkhill		This is a covert operation, numbnuts.
kirkhill		 Check out the command hut.
brewer		Mission control!
rambo		All this is for us?
kirkhill		That's right.
brewer		 They call us the field-unit meat- puppets.
brewer		Ever do this from a jet?
rambo		No.
man		 Just have to jump fast.
rambo		You the pilot?
man		 Lifer and Fuhrman.
rambo		You boys Air Force?
doyle		Marines.  'Ex' though.  We're private contractors now.
lifer		You ever do a tour 'in-country'?
rambo		Two.  'Eye-corps' mostly.
doyle		 How about you?
brewer		 Vietnam was a little before my time. So was Korea, know what I mean?
doyle		A straight dash across the Laotian panhandle, through the Annamese Mountains... some good dicey bits there... and on to the drop zone. Eighteen minutes each way in communist airspace.
rambo		We go low to stay off radar?
doyle		In the rhubarb, babe.
fuhrman		 Mowin' the lawn.
lifer		Dig it.
trautman		How long before you're fully on line?
kirkhill		Couple hours.  Let me buy you a coffee.
trautman		You think they'll find any?
kirkhill		 POWs?  I don't know.  But either way it'll get that subcommittee off our necks.  Cream?
trautman		Black.  No sugar.
kirkhill		The League of Families leans on Congress.  Then they lean on us. Like we don't have enough to worry about in a dozen dirtwater countries.  Damnit!
doyle		A couple klicks from insertion we go vertical to ten thousand and you punch out.  Navigate in free fall like a regular HALO jump.  You'll have a good moon.
lifer		 I got your moon right here...
brewer		No problem.  Duck soup.
doyle		Hey, man... we got fuel on the deck. I don't like flying without a plane.
rambo		No smoking on this mission.  It's not healthy.
brewer		Son of a bitch!
doyle		 Nice trick.  Works nine times out of ten.
rambo		Again.
brewer		Insertion.  Call in to base camp by TRANSAT.  Proceed to point Tango November for rendezvous with our ground contact.  Indigenous agent. Co Phuong Bao.  We've been over this three times.
rambo		You stopped.
brewer		Co Phuong Bao.  The guide takes us twelve klicks upriver to target at Ban... at Ban... Bo Peep.  Shit!
rambo		 Start over.
brewer		 ... to target at Ban Kia Na.  We probe the site...
rambo		 Ninety.
brewer		... then proceed downriver to extraction at point Echo Delta. Doyle takes us out by helicopter, we all live happily ever after and that's the last time, Rambo!  I swear to Christ.
rambo		One hundred.
brewer		Gettin' old, huh?
rambo		Yeah.  Second set.  Let's go.
brewer		Transponder-satellite relay. TRANSAT.
brewer		 The signal's coded into infrared pulses, picked up by the spy satellite, bounced to the ground station in Okinawa and relayed to the hut...
brewer		 No radio source.  Nothing for the bad guys to triangulate on.
rambo		Show me how it operates.
brewer		That's what I'm here for.
rambo		Show me in case you get zapped as soon as we land.
brewer		 We're leaving tonight, not in a week.
brewer		Alright.  Alright.
brewer		Yeah.  Why not?
rambo		You break your leg, I'll have to shoot you.
doyle		I think he means it.
brewer		Crazy fucker.
doyle		Well, son.  You got that right. Anybody ever tell you about that guy?
brewer		What about him?
rambo		Let's do it.
trautman		Keep it clean, Rambo, or I'll nail your hide to the shed.
rambo		You got it, sir.
doyle		Zen Rollercoaster, requesting clearance.
voice		 You are cleared, Zen Rollercoaster.
fuhrman		Switching communications to burst mode.
technician		AWACS Two-Five has acquired.  They are holding timeline.
doyle		 Here comes the sexy part.
brewer		Whoo-ya!  I love it!
rambo		 Stay tight on me, Brewer.  I don't want to have to go looking for you.
brewer		Check.
technician		AWACS Niner-One via Subic Bay reports them approaching insertion. Five-by-Five.
farmer		 Son of a bitch!
doyle		Approaching ten thousand.  Eleven seconds to insertion.  Ten, nine... Slowing to two-thirty...
doyle		 ... three seconds.  Two.  One.  Have a nice day.
lifer		Go!
rambo		 You read me, Brewer?
rambo		Home on my strobe.
rambo		 Man, what are you doing back here?
rambo		You okay?
rambo		 That's one.
tech		It's coming in.
kirkhill		They're in!  On the money.
rambo		What do you call that?
brewer		 Modified M-16 A2 and over-under M-79 grenade launcher, with Sionics sound suppressor, Tracor starlight scope and LAC/R-100 Laser sighting system.
rambo		Batteries not included.
brewer		 This is state-of-the-art firepower.
rambo		What's this?
brewer		AC-System 'Big-Ear' telescopic mike with built-in audio processor. Can pull a whisper out of a loud cocktail party at 50 meters.
rambo		Cocktail party.  Uh huh, right.  Let's saddle up.
brewer		Where's your stuff?
brewer		 That's it?  Some C-4, a map and a knife?
rambo		There's a compass in the handle.
brewer		And a beat-to-shit AK?  Every twelve-year-old in Nam's got one of those.
rambo		Exactly.
brewer		Uh... this thing's pretty heavy. You got room for it?
brewer		Just a thought.
brewer		You wanna know why I stood up for this show?
rambo		 No.
brewer		I was in the brig.  They gave me a deal.  I blew up this Colonel's golf cart with an M-19.  He wasn't in it or anything... it was the symbolic value.  Seemed like a good idea at the time.
rambo		That's a real good reason to wind up in 'Nam.
brewer		I've seen worse places.
rambo		There are no worse places.
brewer		 This place is a trip.
rambo		Buddhist monastery.  Fifteenth century.
brewer		Damn!  Leeches.
rambo		Get used to 'em.
brewer		 You fucking crazy?  I need it to burn these things off.
rambo		No cigarettes.
brewer		I had it cupped.
brewer		Look, Rambo.  I've had enough of your bad-ass Indian-scout bullshit. You're years out of date... I'm makin' a career out of teaching you the hardware.  As far as I'm concerned you're just along to back me up.  And I heard about you... about how twitchy you really are. Kill any civilians lately?
rambo		Listen real careful, freshmeat.  I don't know why they sent you.  Maybe they didn't want to waste a good man.  But you screw up once more and I'll kill you myself.
brewer		Man, are you strict.
woman		You come here see Buddha... ask for truth?  Or just lost?
brewer		 Should I waste her?
rambo		 I'm not lost.  Just looking for someone.
woman		 Someone called maybe 'Night Orchid'?
rambo		 That's right.
woman		 I'm Co Phuong Bao.
rambo		 She's our contact.
brewer		 I didn't know you spoke Vietnamese.
rambo		I'm Rambo.  This is Brewer.  Her name is Co.
co		It means "virgin."  My mother was comedian.
brewer		Howdy, Co.
brewer		Uh, you speak pretty good English. Where'd you learn?
co		University of Saigon.  Have Masters Degree in economics.  Not use too much now... Communists in charge. You got time... want to eat?
rambo		Sure.  Whattaya got?
co		 Nuac mam.
rambo		You really got a Masters Degree?
co		Sure.  I only sound like forty-year- old in your language.
brewer		What's this stuff on the rice?
rambo		Fermented fish sauce.
rambo		How do we get upriver?
co		I have arranged transportation.  We meet soon.  But I think you to be disappointed.
rambo		Why's that?
co		I go up to this camp two months ago. Nobody there.  Empty for years.
rambo		Why would they send us to a deserted camp?
brewer		Who cares?  Let's just do it and get out.  Go have a Jacuzzi and get laid in Bangkok.  Know what I mean?
rambo		We'll check it out.
brewer		How come we didn't just drop near the camp... save this hassle?
rambo		Brewer.  Does a jet make noise?
brewer		Yeah...
co		 Where did you find this clown?
rambo		 I thought he was with you.
co		 Crazy motherfucker.
brewer		What's she saying?
rambo		She likes you.  Says you're dinky- dau.
brewer		What's that?
rambo		Powerful warrior.
brewer		Yeah.  Dinky-dau, that's me.  Hey, Co.  You wanna meet Jake the one- eyed snake?
brewer		 These guys look like they'd sell their mothers.
rambo		Sometimes they do.  They're river pirates.  Opium runners.
brewer		 Pirates?  No kidding?
rambo		 Thank you, Captain, for your hospitality.  You speak English very well.
brewer		Looks like my room in college.
co		We sleep here today.  Safe here while go up river.
rambo		What about patrol boats?
kirkhill		 Yes, sir.
kirkhill		 Goddamn it!  Now the goddamn satellite shows the camp occupied... some trucks or something.
aide		 Oh, boy.  It's getting dicey.
kirkhill		What's up?
trautman		Listen, Kirkhill.  I'm a bit of a fifth wheel in your setup here... I thought I'd go out with the extraction team tonight.  Unless you have an objection.
kirkhill		 It's not necessary.
trautman		I know.
kirkhill		That's a pretty hairy ride.  Full Colonels are supposed to be above that sort of thing.
trautman		I know...
kirkhill		 Have fun.
rambo		Have some armpit sauce.
rambo		 How did you get started working for the spooks?
co		Spooks?
rambo		Intelligence work.
co		Oh.  They talk to me at university before fall of Saigon.  Make deal.
brewer		Everybody's makin' deals.
co		My brother captain in ARVN... need papers to go United States, or North Vietnamese will execute.  They make deal... I stay here and do work... my brother and my son can go United States.
rambo		Your son?
co		Nguyen.  He twelve now.  Not see him for eight years.
rambo		Where's his father?
co		Dead.  Killed in war.
rambo		Where's Nguyen now?  What city?
co		 Huntington Beach, California.
rambo		It's nice there.  He's probably digging every minute.  Got a surfboard.  Breaking girls' hearts.
co		 Nguyen is good boy.
brewer		Some hardened guerrilla fighter they gave us.
co		River patrol!
rambo		How you doing, Brewer?
brewer		 I need a vacation.
rambo		Check the tower with your scope.
brewer		Nobody home.  Wait a minute! Cigarette.
brewer		What's he here for?
brewer		 Snoring.  Five, six guys. Mumbling... Vietnamese.  Somebody talking in his sleep.  A toilet flushing.
rambo		Guard barracks.  Take some shots.
brewer		Breathing.  Moaning.  Shit!
rambo		 Bad dreams.  Prisoner's barracks. Shoot some.
co		Cyclo-girl whore from village. Business slow there.
rambo		She's making him a pretty good deal.
rambo		What's that?  By the far tower.
brewer		It's a guy in a cage.
rambo		American?
brewer		Can't tell.  Pretty tall.  He's real scrunched up in that thing.
rambo		Let me see.
rambo		Roundeye.
brewer		Alright.  Home run.
rambo		 Torture cage.  Can't stand... can't sit... for days.  Sometimes weeks.
brewer		Bastards.  Let's get some shots.
rambo		That guy's not going to make it.
rambo		I'm getting him out.
brewer		What?  Are you crazy?  We're supposed to take pictures and split. You're gonna blow the whole program.
rambo		You never been in one of those things.
brewer		I suppose you have...
brewer		It's orders!  You remember... when they tell you to do something and then you do it.  John Wayne is dead, man.
rambo		 You take pictures and split.  I'm going in.
brewer		Fuck it.  Fuck it.  Aw... ke-rist.
brewer		How we gonna do it?
prisoner		 Who're you?
rambo		American.  Come to get you out.
prisoner		Man, you are one scary-looking motherfucker!
rambo		Can you walk?
prisoner		I could a couple of days ago.  Gonna be... stiff.
rambo		What's your name?
prisoner		De Fravio.  Dave De Fravio. Lieutenant... Air Force.
rambo		 Good to meet you, Dave.  I'm Rambo. Okay, I'm going to carry you.  Don't cough or make any noise.
de fravio		Sure thing, Rambo.  You gettin' the other guys, too?
rambo		Not this time.  We'll be back.
rambo		 That's two.
de fravio		 You guys are real... aren't you?
brewer		Huh?
de fravio		Sorry, I mean... I talk to people all the time... I know a lot of them aren't there.  But this is real, isn't it?  You're taking me home now?
brewer		That's right, buddy.
de fravio		Thank God... thank you...
rambo		We'd better go for the emergency LZ at point Zulu Sierra.  Tell them we've got some heat but don't mention De Fravio.
tech		You're go for extraction.  Mr. Kirkhill says wind 'er up.  Here's the hardcopy.
trautman		 Alternate LZ Zulu Sierra at 0500. It says "May have heat.  Don't be late.  All our love."
doyle		 Let's get that tent down!
de fravio		I gotta tell you, it's just luck you guys came when you did.  They move us around a lot... We only been at that camp a week.  Got a smoke?
brewer		 No.
de fravio		What kind of raggedy-ass rescue you call this?
rambo		Why were you in the box?
de fravio		Well, I caught this cobra, see...
brewer		You mean the snake?
de fravio		Yeah.  It's not hard once you get the hang of it.  In the wrist. Anyway, I did what I always do when I get one...
brewer		What's that?
de fravio		 Man they got pissed.  They beat the crap out of me, but... it's kind of a tradition.  You oughta see 'em run around.
rambo		 You got a bad attitude.
de fravio		I know it.
de fravio		Thanks lady.  You're pretty cute... doing anything this weekend?
co		 Eat slowly.  Don't make yourself sick.
brewer		Twenty-five minutes.  We'd better roll.
kinh		Wa-ky number ten.  Do-ma.
de fravio		Yeah, fuck your mama-san, too.  In the...
brewer		 You slope bitch!
de fravio		 Wow!
brewer		What just happened?
rambo		 Are you okay?
co		 Yes.  But I lose many merits in next life.  Very bad.
rambo		Why'd they want us?
co		They heard about escaped prisoner on radio.  Make deal.  More than we pay.
brewer		They sold us out?  Now I'm pissed.
co		They were fools.  To think there would be reward.  And to ask my help.
rambo		Thanks.
co		Rambo.  NVA coming.  Pig dog Kinh say meet them here.  Whole garrison from Con Cuong is out.
rambo		 Let's go.
lifer		 Back in Indian country.  Just like old times.
brewer		Let's ditch this Transat.  We don't need it.
rambo		Bury it here.  Work fast.
rambo		 You better take off.
brewer		Ain't you coming with us, sweet thing?
co		My orders stay here.
rambo		See you in California.
co		Land of big PX.  Maybe I take you for a ride in my Cadillac.
fuhrman		 Three minutes.
voice		 Zen Hammer this is Slam Dunk One, do you copy?  Over.
fuhrman		Roger, Slam Dunk One... what is your position?
rambo		 Let's move.
brewer		Go for it, man.  Good therapy.
brewer		 You guys comin' or what?
fuhrman		Roger... we have you on visual.  We are coming in.  How many are you?
trautman		Relay to command.  They have one of ours.
telecom tech		Mr.  Kirkhill... I have an AWACS relay.  Zen Hammer reports the ground team has an American POW with them.
kirkhill		What did you say?
telecom tech		 They've got one of ours.
kirkhill		 This station is now on Condition Bravo.  Harrison.  Meyers.  Goodell. Out... now!
kirkhill		 Go to your COMINT priority frequency.  Give me the mike... Zen Hammer, this is Coach One.  This is an Alpha-Kilo-Victor command priority.
kirkhill		I want you to abort the operation immediately.
fuhrman		Say again, Coach One?
fuhrman		 He wants us to abort before pick-up.
trautman		Confirm it.
fuhrman		It is confirmed.  Yes, sir.
doyle		Turnin' around.
fuhrman		 I thought you liked those guys.
doyle		I do.  But they ain't payin' the rent, Jack.
trautman		Stay on your heading, Captain.
doyle		Sorry, Sir.  Can't do it.
trautman		That's an order.
doyle		 Sorry, Sir.
lifer		 We ain't Uncle Sam's misguided children no more, Colonel.  We're independent contractors.
fuhrman		That's right, Sir.  We don't like this, but we are working for Mr. Kirkhill.
trautman		You pathetic scum.
doyle		 Well, if there weren't POWs before, there are now.
brewer		Where's he going?  Do you read, Zen Hammer?  Over.  Son of a bitch!  They're ditching us!
brewer		 The fuckers left us, man... they left us.
de fravio		Oh... God.
kirkhill		Have a drink.
trautman		Why?
kirkhill		 You got five hours?  I'll tell you about Secretaries of State, and funding committees and diplomatic relations...
trautman		Take your time.
kirkhill		Look, Colonel... we're all adults here.  This is a war.  A very quiet, very intense war.  People get sacrificed.
trautman		Not my people.
trautman		 But you're right... some people do get sacrificed.  Now tell me why you pulled the plug.
kirkhill		You think I'm some whacko?  I like to hurt people?  I'm doing a job here.  If I knew what's right or wrong I'd be a goddamned priest, right?  So I follow directives... I do what I'm told.  It's simple.  If your boy had done what he was told, there wouldn't be a problem.
trautman		Don't dance me, Kirkhill.  You'll be walking funny.
kirkhill		Look, it was a screw-up, alright? They weren't supposed to find anything.  We thought that camp was empty.
trautman		This mission was a scam from the word go?
kirkhill		Word came down... they wanted an answer.  And they knew the answer they wanted: no POWs.  But it had to look good.  Best effort.  The whole dog-and-pony show.
trautman		 Rambo and Brewer were selected as write-offs.
kirkhill		It was clean.  Very clean... Rambo was a decorated Vietnam vet, a former POW himself... if he came out and said "No POWs" the sub-committee would buy it.  He gets himself caught he's a private citizen, a whacko, acting on his own.  If he gets proof, it gets lost somewhere between here and D.C.  Airtight. But no... Rambo's gotta be a hero. Thinks he's starring in his own war movie or something.  He put me in a corner.  No choice.
trautman		"Terminate with extreme prejudice."
kirkhill		That's a crock.  We don't say that. Do you have any idea the shitstorm if he'd gotten back with that guy? If it went public?  The White House would have to act through channels. We're talking ransom.  Four billion bucks in war reparations to Vietnam to get the others back.  That's billion, Colonel.  With a "B".  For a few guys that've had their brains in a blender for ten years?  A pain in the ass to everybody?  No way. There's no way.
trautman		So there never was a Phase Two rescue team?
kirkhill		Of course not.  You can't get approval to rescue a kitten from a tree after Tehran.
trautman		I understand.
kirkhill		Here.  Drink.
trautman		 Expedience!
kirkhill		You're out of your depth, Trautman. Way out.  I'm acting correctly here. Not you.  Not your gung-ho jungle ace.  It's over.  Walk away.
trautman		It's not over.  You made one mistake.
kirkhill		What that?
trautman		Rambo.
brewer		Are they going to torture us?
rambo		 Yes.
brewer		What... whattaya do?
rambo		 Hope they kill you by mistake.
guard		No talk!
brewer		 This ain't happening.
jensen		We were pulling for you, Dave.  We hoped you'd make it.
de fravio		Next time.
jensen		It's those Russian interrogators again.
podovsk		 Put him in the chair.
podovsk		 Thank you, Captain Vinh.  Leave one guard, please.
podovsk		These people are so... vulgar in their approach.  I am Lieutenant Commander Podovsk.  I do not know who you are.  Will you tell me?
podovsk		 This is a poor beginning for an intimate relationship.  By tomorrow or the next day you will tell me things you would not tell a lover.
podovsk		 I see you are no stranger to pain. Then of course you must know how senseless it is to resist in the long run.  Is it possible you have been among my Vietnamese comrades before?
podovsk		 Yes.  I think that must be it. Where were you held?  Hanoi?  Son Tay?  I apologize.  I'm getting ahead.  Sometimes I get too eager. My comrade and I, in our capacity as advisors, have been sent from our center at Cam Ranh Bay to discover from you certain things... for example: whether you are working directly for the American government... Who your contacts were... and on and on.  Quite a list.  Will you tell me these things now?
podovsk		 Of course you won't.  But, as a moral man, I felt compelled to ask.
podovsk		This is Lieutenant Palyushin.  To him you are a piece of meat.  Proceed.
podovsk		I was sent here because of my command of your language.  It will be frustrating if we cannot have a nice chat.  Very frustrating.  Ready?
podovsk		 Test please.
podovsk		Oh, yes.  Here is something you might be interested in.
podovsk		A transcript of the conversation between your helicopter pilot and his commander, intercepted and unscrambled by our overworked cryptography staff.  Mmm.  "Zen Hammer... Slam Dunk." Colorful names.  Here we are: "Ah, Coach One... we have them in sight." And the reply: "Abort immediately. Return to base camp."
podovsk		It seems they intentionally abandoned you on direct orders. There are the people you protect with your silence?  With your pain?
podovsk		 But you must scream.  You must. There is no shame.
brewer		Bastards!
podovsk		 Nyet!  Nyet!
co		 We get out.  Split up.  They not want me.
rambo		 You are amazing.
co		 Di di mau!  Go!  Go!
palyushin		 Find!  Now!
tay		 Where's Trang?
guard		 Vuoc?  You alright?
tay		Bui?  Phong?  Than?
trautman		Bob, hi.  Did you get my telex?  Thanks, buddy.
trautman		Get me a "Loach," I'm going back out to Ban Bung Kla.
corporal		Yes, sir.
de fravio		 Hey, Brewer.  You okay?
brewer		 I could use a beer.
de fravio		Your buddy made it out last night. The place went apeshit.
brewer		Really?  How come he didn't take me?
de fravio		Maybe because you're shot in the leg.
brewer		Oh, yeah.  Listen, how long do they keep you in this disease hole?
jensen		Who knows?  I was in there for a month once.  De Fravio did three months.
brewer		How do you keep from coming unglued?
jensen		Concentrate on a problem.  Like, I built my dream house in my head, brick by brick.  Board by board.  If something really takes a day, I thought about it for a whole day. Like that.
de fravio		I built a shopping mall.
jensen		 Guards.  See ya.
brewer		 I'm dinky dau!
podovsk		 I think you know where he is going. Is there a rendezvous point?  Some guerrilla contract?  A transmitter perhaps.
brewer		 No way.  If I say anything... that's three.
podovsk		 I cannot be responsible for the safety of the prisoners if he is not captured.  This government now considers the existence of POWs an embarrassment.  An unmarked grave in the jungle may be their solution.  I am only an advisor.
brewer		Advise my dick, you Siberian scumbag.
brewer		 Ke-rist.  Whattaya trying to do, man, tickle me?
rambo		 Keep driving.
vinh		 You see?  Not a demon.  A man.  Now, we find where he's crawled to die.
brewer		 This your first day?
podovsk		You think you can provoke us into beating you unconscious?  We are not that... unskilled.
brewer		I've had it with you, ratface. Don't piss me off!
brewer		 Come on... I love it!  You hear me... I LOVE IT!
tech		 More AWACS intercepts.  The Russian takes time to translate.
kirkhill		He's giving them a run for their money.  Says here they've got two Hueys from Danang.  I didn't know those dinks had Hueys.
tech		Half their air force is our stuff. Captured.
kirkhill		Typical...
tech		Sir, there's something else... a TRANSAT relay.  Just came through.
kirkhill		What?
voice		You not so hard to catch, dinky dau Rambo.
rambo		 Christ.  How'd you get here?
co		 Took bus, most of way.  I knew you would come here.
rambo		And how'd you sneak up like that?
co		Carefully.  Don't want to get shot by you.  Bad karma.  Anyway, you need me.
rambo		I do?
co		You think you are... .
rambo		 Invulnerable.
co		In-vul-nerabo.  But you get ass kicked without me.
rambo		Yeah.  We're a pretty good team.
co		You look like hell.  Wounds infected.  Come up to the ruins, I have medical kit.
co		You try get across Laos?  Get to Thailand?
rambo		 Yeah.  Got some business there. What are you gonna do?
co		 Go United States.  See Nguyen. Maybe teach economics.  Buy Cadillac.  Watch "Dynasty."
rambo		How you going to get there?  You can't trust the spooks to pull you out.  They'll use you up and throw you away.
co		I know.  I go with you.
rambo		I couldn't get you in.
co		Yes you can.
rambo		How?
co		As wife.
rambo		 Okay.  Done.  You got it.
co		You too easy.
co		You don't feel love, Rambo?
rambo		Look, Co...
co		Why you don't feel love?  Not allowed?  Dead inside, maybe?  You make yourself dead already so they can't kill you?  In-vulnerabo?  Bullshit!
co		 I have enough death already. Husband.  Mother.  Father. Brothers.  Death everywhere.
co		You see?  A flower like that need good soil to grow.  Many time under earth is bones of animal... or person.  Killed in jungle.  Make soil rich.  Grows most beautiful flower.  You call orchid.  Many deaths in jungle.  Vietnamese, V.C., American.  Many beautiful flowers.
palyushin		 Get your men back.  I'm beginning an attack run.
co		 What was that?
rambo		Minigun.  Come on.  Let's move. He's coming in on our open side.
palyushin		 Return to staging area.  We have to reload.
co		 Dinky-dau-Rambo.
rambo		John.  My name is John.
co		 It doesn't hurt.  Why doesn't it hurt?
palyushin		 Air Three, are you in position?
pilot		 Ready, Air Command.
pilot		 How many are down there?
podovsk		 One.
rambo		... you're gonna love it there. It'll be great.  We can do what we want... you and me... go to the beach... with Nguyen... watch him ridin' his surfboard...
rambo		 Oh, God...
pilot		 500 meters.  Final approach.
rambo		 'Palm.
kirkhill		Well, have they got him yet?
tech		Um... actually, no.  It looks like he shot down one of their gunships...
kirkhill		Christ almighty.
tech		... and then he, uh... took the other one.
kirkhill		 What?
tech		He... took it.
brewer		Gawd, you look awful.
rambo		You comin'?
brewer		 Hold your pantyhose.  Here, gimme a hand.
rambo		Can you handle the door gun?
brewer		Duck soup.
de fravio		Am I dreaming this?  This is not real, right?  I oughta grease you pricks, but I've known you too long.
rambo		Let's go, De Fravio.  Move it!
brewer		We got company.  You better pull some pitch, buddy.
rambo		 Brewer!  You know what that thing's packing?
brewer		It's a Soviet MIL MI-24.  Probably has 12.7mm nose cannon, heat-seeking rockets and wire guided missiles, plus...
rambo		Forget it.
de fravio		I think I'm gonna be sick.
pilot		 They're approaching the border. Should we notify the Laotian Air Force?
podovsk		 No.  We'll take them ourselves.
brewer		Hell.  This is just like fucking Star Wars, man!
de fravio		 Star Wars?
brewer		You're gonna love it.
rambo		 How much we got left in that minigun?
brewer		Pretty low.  Couple of seconds worth.
pilot		We're in Laos, Sir.
podovsk		I know that!  Fire all your rockets.  Take him down!
podovsk		 We've got him.
brewer		 The thrill of victory, the agony of defeat!
lifer		Hey, Colonel.  You're not cleared to be on this base anymore.
trautman		 I know.
brewer		... and there's this guy with a black helmet and cape, right, and he's got this sword... except it's not a sword, it's light...
de fravio		There's the Mekong.
kirkhill		 When the unidentified helicopter has crossed the river into Thailand, shoot it down with air-to-air rockets.  Then proceed to the crash site and fire your remaining rockets into the wreckage.  Is this understood, Zen Hammer?
kirkhill		What are you talking about?  Why?
trautman		Escort them on in.
trautman		All base personnel.  Prepare medical facilities to receive American POWs.
rambo		Mission accomplished.
brewer		 Cover of Time Magazine, baby!
de fravio		You did good, buddy.  Real good!
****Dialogues from script :Reader.txt****

brigitte		You didn't wake me.
michael		You were sleeping.
brigitte		You let me sleep because you can't bear to have breakfast with me.
michael		Nothing could be further from the truth. I boiled you an egg. See?
michael		I'd hardly have boiled you an egg if I didn't want to see you. Tea or coffee?
brigitte		Does any woman ever stay long enough to find out what the hell goes on in your head?
brigitte		What are you doing tonight?
michael		I'm seeing my daughter.
brigitte		Your daughter? You've kept very quiet about her.
michael		Have I? She's been abroad for a year. Did you say tea?
brigitte		I'm going. Give my love to your daughter.
hanna		Hey. Hey!
hanna		Hey, kid. Hey.
michael		I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
hanna		Where do you live?
michael		It's here. I'll be fine now. Thank you.
hanna		Look after yourself.
carla		I'm worried about him. He looks terrible.
peter		The boy's saying he doesn't need a doctor.
emily		He does.
michael		I don't need a doctor.
peter		Good then.
carla		Peter.
peter		We're not going to argue about this. People have to take responsibility for their own lives.
doctor		Remind me, how old are you now?
carla		Michael's fifteen.
doctor		It's scarlet fever. He'll be in bed for several months. At least.
carla		Keep away. He's contagious.
doctor		Burn the sheets. Complete isolation. And three months is the minimum.
carla		How are you feeling?
michael		Better. By the way, I meant to tell you, the day I got ill... a woman helped me. A woman in the street.
carla		She helped you?
michael		Yes. She brought me home.
carla		Do you have her address?
hanna		Come in.
michael		I brought you these flowers. To say thank you.
hanna		Put them down there.
michael		I would have come earlier, but I've been in bed for three months.
hanna		You're better now?
michael		Thank you.
hanna		Have you always been weak?
michael		Oh no. I'd never been ill before. It's incredibly boring. There's nothing to do. I couldn't even be bothered to read.
hanna		I have to go to work. I'll walk with you. Wait in the hall while I change.
hanna		There are two more buckets downstairs. You can fill them and bring them up.
hanna		You look ridiculous, look at you, kid.
hanna		You can't go home like that. Give me your clothes, I'll run you a bath.
hanna		What, do you always take a bath in your trousers?
hanna		It's all right, I won't look.
hanna		Wash your hair, I'll get you a towel.
hanna		So. That's why you came back.
michael		You're so incredibly beautiful.
hanna		Now, kid, you know that's not true.
peter		You've inconvenienced your mother.
michael		How many more times? I've said I'm sorry.
peter		You scared her.
michael		It's hardly my fault, I got lost, that's all. That's why I was late. Can I have some more?
emily		How can anyone get lost in their own home town?
michael		The doctor told me I had to take walks.
emily		So?
michael		I meant to head for the castle, I ended up at the sports-field.
emily		They're in opposite directions.
michael		It's none of your business.
emily		He's lying.
carla		He's not lying. Michael never lies.
michael		Dad, I've decided, I want to go back to school tomorrow.
carla		The doctor says you need another three weeks.
michael		Well I'm going.
carla		Peter?
peter		If he wants to go back, then he must.
hanna		All right, kid, it's not just about you.
michael		What's your name?
hanna		What?
michael		Your name.
hanna		Why do you want to know?
michael		I've been here three times. You haven't told me your name.
hanna		It's Hanna. What's yours, kid?
michael		Michael.
hanna		Michael. Hmm. So I'm with a Michael.
michael		`Hanna'.
teacher		The notion of secrecy is central to Western literature. You may say the whole idea of character in fiction is defined by people holding specific information which for various reasons - sometimes perverse, sometimes noble - they are determined not to disclose.
hanna		You never tell me what you've been studying.
michael		Studying?
hanna		At school. Do you learn languages?
michael		Yes.
hanna		What languages?
michael		Latin.
hanna		Say something in Latin.
michael		Oh...
michael		Quo, quo scelesti ruitis? Aut cur dexteris aptantur enses conditi?
michael		It's Horace.
hanna		It's wonderful.
michael		Do you want some Greek?
michael		Oi men ippeon stroton oi de pesedon oi da naon phais epi gan malainan emmenai kalliston, ego de ken otto tis eratai.
hanna		It's beautiful.
michael		How can you tell? How do you know when you've no idea what it means?
hanna		What about in German?
michael		In German?
hanna		Do you have anything?
michael		Well, I'm writing an essay. It's about a play. By a writer called Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Perhaps you've heard of him?
michael		The play's called Emilia Galotti.
hanna		Have you got it?
michael		Here. You can read it.
hanna		I'd rather listen to you.
michael		All right. I'm not very good.
michael		Act One. Scene One. The setting : one of the prince's chambers. Prince - "Complaints, nothing but complaints, petitions, nothing but petitions. For goodness' sake, just imagine that people actually envy us."
hanna		You're good at it, aren't you?
michael		Good at what?
hanna		Reading.
hanna		Why are you smiling?
michael		Because I didn't think I was good at anything.
michael		What was all that about?
michael		I got up - at 4.30 - specially - it's the first day of the holidays, I'd been planning to surprise you -
hanna		Poor little baby. Got up at four thirty - and on your holidays too.
michael		What is this? I was on your tram! You totally ignored me! What do you think I was doing? Why the hell do you think I was there?
hanna		I haven't the slightest idea. And what you do is your business not mine.
hanna		And if you wanted to speak to me, I was in the first carriage. So why did you sit in the second?
hanna		And now, thanks very much, I've been working, I need a bath. Get out, I'd like to be by myself.
michael		I didn't mean to upset you.
hanna		You don't have the power to upset me. You don't matter enough to upset me.
michael		I don't know what to say. I've never been with a woman. We've been together four weeks and I can't live without you. I can't. Even the thought of it kills me.
michael		I sat in the second carriage because I thought you might kiss me.
hanna		Kid, you thought we could make love in a tram?
michael		Is it true what you said? That I don't matter to you?
michael		Do you forgive me?
michael		Do you love me?
hanna		Do you have a book?
michael		Oh. Well I do. I took something with me this morning.
hanna		What is it?
michael		It's another play.
hanna		We're changing the order we do things. Read to me first, kid. Then we make love.
michael		Intrigue and Love, a play by Friedrich Schiller...
michael		The Odyssey by Homer.
hanna		What's an odyssey?
michael		It's a journey. He sets out on a journey.
michael		"Sing to me of the Man, Muse, the man of twists and turns Driven time and again off course, once he had plundered The hallowed heights of Troy. Many cities of men he saw and learned their minds, Many pains he suffered, heartsick at the open sea, Fighting to save his life and bring his comrades home...
michael		"And we will some new pleasures prove of golden sands and crystal brooks, with silken lights and silver hooks..."
hanna		Come here.
michael		I poked into the place aways and encountered a little open patch as big as a bedroom, all hung around with vines and found a man lying there asleep, and by Jinks it was my old Jim...
michael		"Lady Chatterley felt his naked flesh against her as he came into her. For a moment he was still inside her...
hanna		This is disgusting. Where did you get this?
michael		I borrowed it from someone at school.
hanna		You should be ashamed. Go on.
michael		`Blistering Barnacles and a thundering typhoon. It is water.' `But what on earth did you expect it to be?'
hanna		Whisky.
michael		Whisky! By thunder, whisky. `Whisky? Come now captain, you can't be serious.'
hanna		All right, kid, that's enough for today.
michael		I was wondering, do you think you could get some time off? Maybe we could go for a trip.
hanna		What sort of trip?
michael		I'd love to go bicycling. Just for two days.
michael		I've got a guide-book. I've worked out the route. Look, what do you think?
hanna		I think you like planning, don't you?
michael's voice		"I'm not frightened. I'm not frightened of anything. Why should I be? I welcome obstacles, because they'll be like mountains I can fly over to be in your arms. The more I suffer, the more I'll love...
michael's voice		"Danger will only increase my love, it will sharpen it, it will give it spice. I'll be the only angel you need. On this arm, Luise, you will go dancing through life. You will leave life even more beautiful than you entered it. Heaven will take you back and look at you and say `Only one thing can make a soul complete, and that thing is love.'
waitress		So what would you like to have?
michael		What are you having?
hanna		You order. I'll have what you have.
boys		There's sausages, sausages or sausages. Give it to me, come on, give it here. Let me have a look. You always have the same thing.
waitress		I hope your mother was happy.
michael		Thank you. She enjoyed her meal very much.
michael		Here, let me show you where we're going.
hanna		It's OK, kid. I don't want to know.
hanna		What are you doing?
michael		I'm writing a poem. About you.
hanna		Can I hear it?
michael		It's not ready. I'll read it to you one day.
gerhard		You all right, Michael?
michael		I'm fine.
gerhard		You'd better hurry. You know what she's like.
sophie		I'm just going to pretend I've been here for years, I'm not going to behave in any special way.
girl		You just wait. You wait and see.
teacher		Good morning, ladies. Gentlemen, please welcome your new fellow- students, treat them with courtesy, please.
sophie		Hello. My name's Sophie.
michael		I'm Michael.
teacher		Everyone believes that Homer's subject is homecoming. In fact, The Odyssey is a book about a journey. Home is a place you dream of, it's not a place you ever attain.
teacher		Berg, I don't mean to distract you, but we're meant to studying Homer, not studying Sophia.
holger		Michael the water's fantastic.
michael		It's wonderful, isn't it?
holger		Wonderful. It's going to be a great summer.
holger		Now the Americans have allowed us back in our own lake.
sophie		Why are they so loud?
holger		You should see their stores. They have everything.
michael		Oh sure. Everything mankind could ever dream of.
sophie		You don't like Americans?
michael		Just it's more fun without them.
sophie		Why do you leave early?
holger		He always leaves early.
michael		I'm sorry I'm late. I was held up at school.
michael		The Lady with the Little Dog. By Anton Chekhov.
michael		"The talk was that a new face had appeared on the promenade, a lady with a little dog."
superviser		Schmitz, one moment. We've got good news for you. Your work is good, we're going to promote you. To work with me in the office. It's more money. Congratulations.
holger		Get a move on, we're leaving early today.
michael		Why? What for?
holger		We're going back to Sophie's. It's your birthday. We're giving you a party.
sophie		Come on, it's a surprise. We thought you'd like it. We've been planning it for weeks.
michael		I'm sorry. Really. I promised someone I'd do something else.
hanna		Oh kid, kid. Stop.
michael		What's wrong?
hanna		Nothing's wrong. It's nothing.
michael		You never ask, you never bother to ask how I am.
hanna		You never say.
michael		It just happens to be my birthday. It's my birthday, that's all. In fact, you've never even asked when it is.
hanna		Look if you want a fight, kid...
michael		No, I don't want a fight. What's wrong with you?
hanna		What business is it of yours?
michael		It's always on your terms. Everything. We do what you want. It's always what you want. My friends were giving me a party!
hanna		Well then why are you here? Go back to your party. Isn't that what you want?
michael		And it's always me that has to apologize.
hanna		You don't have to apologize. No-one has to apologize. No-one can make you.
hanna		War and Peace, kid.
hanna		Now you must go back to your friends.
sophie		Michael. You all right?
emily		It's him.
carla		Where were you last night? What happened?
michael		I stayed at a friend's.
peter		Carla.
peter		Get the boy something to eat. I think we all knew you'd come back to us eventually.
assistant		Mr Berg. It is eight o'clock. Your daughter.
michael		Thank you.
julia		I was early.
michael		Julia.
michael		Welcome back.
michael		So how will you decide?
julia		I don't know. I'm happy back in Berlin, I suppose.
michael		You've seen your mother?
julia		I wanted to get away. There was nothing more to it. It was Paris, but it could have been anywhere.
michael		Away from your parents?
michael		I'm aware I was difficult. I wasn't always open with you. I'm not open with anyone.
julia		I knew you were distant. I'd always assumed it was my fault.
michael		Julia. How wrong can you be?
michael		I admit it now, I was nervous.
julia		I was nervous too. It's silly isn't it?
michael		It is silly.
julia		Thank you for dinner.
michael		I'll see you very soon.
julia		Good night, Dad.
michael		Julia, wait. I want to ask you a favour.
julia		What favour?
michael		I want to take you on a trip. I want to show you something.
julia		When?
michael		Tomorrow, maybe. Can I pick you up in the car?
michael		At ten, say.
michael		Then good.
lecturer		Those of you for the special seminar group on The Legal System in the Third Reich, please stay on in this room. Professor Rohl will be here in a moment.
rohl		Well, we seem to be quite a small group. A small group and a select one. Clearly, this is going to be a unique seminar. Let me start by thanking those of you who've chosen to take part. Good for you. A reading list, gentlemen. 
marthe		And ladies.
marthe		So this is where you are.
michael		Yes. Come in.
marthe		You take work seriously.
michael		Oh I don't know.
marthe		You're rather a serious boy.
michael		It's how I was brought up. What about you? Are you serious?
marthe		You're sure you want to work tonight?
michael		Well I do. But I won't work every night.
marthe		See you tomorrow.
michael		Why all the police?
rohl		They're worried about demonstrators.
michael		For or against?
rohl		Both.
clerk		All photographers are now asked to leave.
judge		The defendants, please.
judge		The first thing I'm going to do is hear motions from each of the defendants' lawyers. 
judge		I am going to take these cases one by one.
michael		Do you want a pen?
marthe		I've got a pen.
judge		Hanna Schmitz.
judge		Your name is Hanna Schmitz?
hanna		Yes.
judge		Can you speak louder please?
hanna		My name is Hanna Schmitz.
judge		Thank you. You were born on October 21st, 1922?
hanna		Yes.
judge		At Hermannstadt. And you're now 43 years old?
hanna		Yes.
judge		You joined the SS in 1943?
hanna		Yes.
judge		What was your reason? What was your reason for joining?
judge		You were working at the Siemens factory at the time?
hanna		Yes.
judge		You'd recently been offered a promotion. Why did you prefer to join the SS?
judge		I'll re-phrase my question. I'm trying to ascertain if she joined the SS freely. Of her own free will.
judge		Well?
hanna		I heard there were jobs.
judge		Go on.
hanna		I was working at Siemens when I heard the SS was recruiting.
judge		Did you know the kind of work you'd be expected to do?
hanna		They were looking for guards. I applied for a job.
judge		And you worked first at Auschwitz?
hanna		Yes.
judge		Until 1944. Then you were moved to a smaller camp near Cracow?
hanna		Yes.
rohl		Are you OK?
michael		I'm fine.
judge		You then helped move the prisoners west in the winter of 1944 in the so-called death marches?
rohl		So what did you think?
michael		I don't know. It wasn't quite what I expecting.
rohl		Wasn't it? In what way? What were you expecting?
dieter		I thought it was exciting.
rohl		Exciting?
dieter		Yes.
rohl		Why? Why did you think it exciting?
dieter		Because it's justice.
rohl		I need to correct an impression. Dieter said yesterday this was about justice. But is it? 
dieter		I'd have thought it was obvious.
rohl		Say.
dieter		Cowardice. It's cowardice, isn't it? It's bad conscience. It's the big cover-up.
rohl		Go on.
dieter		After the war. The German people didn't want to look at what they'd done.
rohl		Is that right?
dieter		Because they had too much to hide. All our parents are liars. All right, mine are. So it's left to us, isn't it?
rohl		How so?
dieter		Because we're not implicated.
rohl		Aren't you? Good. So that's all right then.
marthe		No, but seriously, Dieter's right. My parents, I can't even talk to them. I don't love them. How could I? How could anyone love them? Because they've told themselves so many lies, they can't remember the truth, let alone admit it. Isn't that why we signed up for this seminar?
rohl		I don't know. You tell me.
marthe		Speaking for myself.
rohl		Michael?
michael		I'm not sure any more.
rohl		What did your father do, Dieter?
dieter		If you want to know, he was in the Waffen SS.
dieter		That's what I mean, that's what I'm saying. So were a million other Germans.
rohl		That's exactly my point. That's why it's better not to pretend this is about justice. Forgive me, nor is it about getting into an emotional state. It has no purpose if it's just the young giving their parents a bad time.
marthe		So what is it about? What do you think?
rohl		Societies think they operate by something called morality. But they don't. They operate by something called law. You're not guilty of anything merely by working at Auschwitz. 8,000 people worked at Auschwitz. Precisely 19 have been convicted, and only 6 for murder. To prove murder you have to prove intent. That's the law. Remember, the question is never `Was it wrong?' but `Was it legal?' And not by our laws, no, by the laws at the time.
dieter		But isn't that...
rohl		What?
dieter		Narrow?
rohl		Yes. The law is narrow.
rohl		On the other hand, I suspect people who kill other people tend to be aware that it's wrong.
judge		Miss Schmitz, you're familiar with this book...
hanna		Yes...
judge		Parts of it have already been read out in court. 
hanna		Yes I know. I know Ilana Mather.
judge		She was in the camp, wasn't she, when she was a child? She was with her mother.
judge		In the book, she describes a selection process. At the end of the month's labour, every month, sixty inmates were selected. They were picked out to be sent from the satellite camp back to Auschwitz. That's right, isn't it?
hanna		Yes, it's right.
judge		And so far, each of your fellow defendants has specifically denied being part of that process. Now I'm going to ask you. Were you part of it?
hanna		Yes.
judge		So you helped make the selection?
hanna		Yes.
judge		You admit that? Then tell me, how did that selection happen?
hanna		There were six guards, so we decided we'd choose ten people each. That's how we did it - every month. We'd all choose ten.
judge		Are you saying your fellow defendants took part in the process?
hanna		We all did.
judge		Even though they've denied it? But you admit it. You're saying you took part in the process.
judge		Did you not realise you were sending these women to their deaths?
hanna		Yes but there were new arrivals, new women were arriving all the time, so of course we had to move some of the old ones on.
judge		I'm not sure you understand...
hanna		We couldn't keep everyone. There wasn't room.
judge		No, but what I'm saying : let me rephrase : to make room, you were picking women out and saying `You you and you have to be sent back to be killed.'
hanna		Well, what would you have done?
hanna		So should I never have signed up at Siemens?
clerk		Ms. Mather, they're ready for you now.
prosecutor		In your book you describe the process of selection...
ilana		Yes. You were made to work and then, when you were no longer any use to them, then they sent you back to Auschwitz to be killed.
prosecutor		Are there people here today who made that selection?
ilana		Yes.
prosecutor		I need you to identify them. Can you please point them out?
ilana		Her. And her. And her. And her. And her. And her.
ilana		Each of the guards would choose a certain number of women. Hanna Schmitz chose differently.
judge		In what way differently?
ilana		She had favourites. Girls, mostly young. We all remarked on it, she gave them food and places to sleep. In the evening, she asked them to join her. We all thought - well, you can imagine what we thought.
ilana		Then we found out - she was making these women read aloud to her. They were reading to her. At first we thought this guard, this guard is more sensitive, she's more human, she's kinder. Often she chose the weak, the sick, she picked them out, she seemed to be protecting them almost. But then she dispatched them. Is that kinder?
judge		I want to move on now to the march. As I understand it, you and your daughter were marched for many months.
rose		Yes. It was the winter of 1944. Our camp was closed down, we were told we had to move on. But the plan kept changing every day. Women were dying all around us in the snow. Half of us died on the march. My daughter says in the book, less a death march, more a death gallop.
judge		Please tell us about the night in the church.
rose		That night we actually thought we were lucky because we had a roof over our heads. We'd arrived in a village, as always, the guards took the best quarters, they took the priest's house. But they let us sleep in a church. There was a bombing raid. In the middle of the night. At first we could only hear the fire, it was in the steeple. Then we could see burning beams, and they began to crash to the floor. Everyone rushed, rushed to the doors. But the doors had been locked on the outside.
judge		The church burned down? Nobody came to open the doors? Is that right?
rose		Nobody.
judge		Even though you were all burning to death?
judge		How many people were killed?
rose		Everyone was killed.
judge		How did you survive?
rose		I needed to get away from the other women. Because they were panicking, they were screaming. I couldn't stand it. I couldn't stand their screaming. I was more frightened of the other women than I was of the fire. So I too my daughter and led her to the upper floor. I can't defend what I did. It's impossible to defend. I took Ilana in my arms and I led her towards the fire. There was a small gallery at the side of the church on the upper level. It saved our lives. The gallery didn't burn.
judge		Thank you. I want to thank you for coming to this country today to testify.
dieter		I don't know. I don't know what we're doing any more.
rohl		Don't you?
dieter		You keep telling us to think like lawyers, but there's something disgusting about this.
rohl		How so?
dieter		This didn't happen to the Germans. It happened to the Jews.
dieter		What are we trying to do?
michael		We're trying to understand.
dieter		Six women locked    three hundred Jews in a church, and    let them burn. What is there to    understand? Tell me, I'm asking :    what is there to understand?
dieter		I started out believing in this trial, I thought it was great, now I think it's just a diversion.
rohl		Yes? Diversion from what?
dieter		You choose six women, you put them on trial, you say `They were the evil ones, they were the guilty ones'. Brilliant! 
dieter		People go on about how much did everyone know? `Who knew?' `What did they know?' That isn't the question. The question is `How could you let it happen?' And - better - `Why didn't you kill yourself when you found out?'
dieter		Thousands! That's how many. There were thousands of camps. Everyone knew.
dieter		Look at that woman...
michael		Which woman?
dieter		The woman you're always staring at. I'm sorry but you are.
michael		I don't know which woman you mean.
dieter		You know what I'd do? Put the gun in my hand, I'd shoot her myself.
judge		Why did you not unlock the doors?
judge		Why did you not unlock the doors?
judge		I've asked all of you and I'm getting no answer. Two of the victims are in this court. They deserve an answer.
judge		Here, this is the SS report. You all have copies.
judge		This is the report which was written, approved and signed by all of you immediately after the event. In the written report, you all claim you didn't even know about the fire until after it happened. But that isn't true, is it?
judge		Well? It isn't true.
hanna		I don't know what you're asking.
judge		The first thing I'm asking is, why didn't you unlock the doors?
hanna		Obviously. For the obvious reason. We couldn't.
judge		Why? Why couldn't you?
hanna		We were guards. Our job was to guard the prisoners. We couldn't just let them escape.
judge		I see. And if they escaped, then you'd be blamed, you'd be charged, you might even be executed?
hanna		No.
judge		Well then?
hanna		If we opened the doors, then there would have been chaos. How could we have restored order? 
judge		So you did know what was happening? You did know? You made a choice. You let them die rather than risk letting them escape.
judge		The other defendants have made an allegation against you. Have you heard this allegation?
judge		They say you were in charge.
hanna		It isn't true. I was just one of the guards.
judge		Did you write the report?
hanna		No. No. We all discussed what to say. We all wrote it together.
beckhart		She wrote it! She wrote the report. She was in charge.
judge		Is that true?
hanna		No. And I didn't write the report. Does it matter who did?
judge		I need to see a sample of your handwriting.
hanna		My handwriting?
judge		Yes. I need to establish who wrote the report.
hanna's counsel		I'm sorry, but I really don't see how that's appropriate. Nearly twenty years have gone by.
judge		Somebody take her this piece of paper.
hanna's counsel		Are you really going to compare handwriting of twenty years ago, with handwriting of today?
judge		Give her the paper. Counsel, approach the bench.
hanna		There's no need. I wrote the report.
rohl		You've been skipping seminars.
rohl		So?
michael		I have a piece of information. Concerning one of the defendants. Something they're not admitting.
rohl		What information?
rohl		You don't need me to tell you. It's perfectly clear you have a moral obligation to disclose it to the court.
michael		It happens this information is favourable to the defendant. It can help her case. It may even affect the outcome, certainly the sentencing.
rohl		So?
michael		There's a problem. The defendant herself is determined to keep this information secret.
rohl		A moment, please. Please.
rohl		What are her reasons?
michael		Because she's ashamed.
rohl		Ashamed? Ashamed of what?
rohl		Have you spoken to her?
michael		Of course not.
rohl		Why of course not?
michael		I can't. I can't do that. I can't talk to her.
rohl		What we feel isn't important. It's utterly unimportant. The only question is what we do.
rohl		If people like you don't learn from what happened to people like me, then what the hell is the point of anything?
guard		You have a visitor. Michael Berg.
guard		Time's up.
marthe		You've taken your time.
marthe		Where are you going?
michael		I'm sorry. I need to sleep by myself.
judge		The court finds guilty the defendants Rita Beckhart, Karolina Steinhof, Regina Kreutz, Angela Zieber, Andrea Luhmann jointly aiding and abetting murder in three hundred cases. The court finds the defendant Hanna Schmitz guilty of murder in three hundred cases.
judge		The court sentences the accused as follows. Rita Beckhart, Karolina Steinhof, Regina Kreutz, Angela Zieber, and Andrea Luhmann, you will each serve a total sentence in prison of four years and three months.
judge		Hanna Schmitz, in view of your own admissions and your special role, you are in a different category. The court sentences the accused Schmitz to imprisonment for life.
julia		Where are we going?
michael		I said : I'll tell you when we get there. You told me you liked surprises.
julia		I like surprises.
michael		She's grown, hasn't she?
carla		I don't know. It's so long since I saw her, Michael, how can I tell?
michael		My fault. We shouldn't have come unannounced.
julia		Daddy, why's she angry?
michael		I'm afraid I've have some bad news. Julia knows. 
julia		Daddy's going to live in his own house.
carla		You didn't come for your father's funeral, but you come for this?
michael		You know, it's not easy for me to visit this town.
carla		Were you really so unhappy?
michael		That's not what I'm saying. It's not what I meant.
carla		Well then?
michael		You mustn't worry about Gertrud. I'm going to look after her. And anyway, let's face it, she's already a state prosecutor, she earns far more than I do.
carla		Michael, I'm not worried about Gertrud. I'm worried about you.
julia		Hello Mummy.
gertrud		Hello beautiful.
gertrud		Do you mind if I don't ask you in?
michael		I don't mind at all. I've a lot to do, in fact.
michael		I took her to see where I grew up.
gertrud		You went to the West? My God, what a trip.
julia		We went to say hello to granny.
gertrud		Oh. Daddy took you to see Carla, did he?
julia		She was strange.
gertrud		Come on, let's see what's on TV.
gertrud		I bet she was strange.
michael		You could say.
gertrud		She always was. Why on earth did you decide to do that?
michael		I don't know. Impulse.
michael		I suppose if I'm honest we went because I wanted to re-establish contact.
gertrud		With your mother? And did you succeed?
michael		Are you all right?
gertrud		Michael you're meant to be an intelligent man. Don't you know, it's very hard to receive contact if you're not willing to give it?
gertrud		Say goodbye to Julia.
julia		Goodbye, Daddy.
michael		"Sing to me of the Man, Muse, the man of twists and turns Driven time and again off course, once he had plundered The hallowed heights of Troy...
michael's voice		The Odyssey by Homer.
michael		The Odyssey by Homer. "Sing to me of the Man, Muse, the man of twists and turns Driven time and again off course, once he had plundered The hallowed heights of Troy... Many cities of men he saw and learned their minds, Many pains he suffered, heartsick at the open sea, Fighting to save his life and bring his comrades home...
michael		"Ah, how shameless - the way these mortals blame the gods. From us alone, they say, come all their miseries...
michael		"Who are you? Where are you from? Your city? Your parents? I'm wonderstruck - you drank my drugs, you're not bewitched..."
michael's voice		Zeus from the very start, the thunder king Has hated the race of Atreus with a vengeance - 
michael		The Lady with the Little   Dog, by Anton Chekhov. "The talk   was that a new face had appeared on   the promenade, a lady with a   little dog..."
hanna		I want to take out a book.
librarian		Which book?
hanna		Do you have The Lady with the Little Dog?
librarian		What's your name?
hanna		Hanna Schmitz.
michael's voice		The Lady with the Little Dog, a story by Anton Chekhov. The talk was...
michael's voice		Yes.
michael		I have it here.
ms brenner		Hanna has been in prison for over twenty years. She has no family. She has no friends. You're her only contact. And I'm told you don't visit her.
michael		No. I don't.
ms brenner		When she gets out, she's going to need a job. She's going to need somewhere to live. You can't imagine how frightening the modern world will seem to her.
michael		Yes. I'm still here.
ms brenner		I have no-one else to ask. If you don't take responsibility for her, then Hanna has no future at all.
michael		It's kind of you. Thank you for letting me know.
ms brenner		You're Michael Berg?
michael		Yes.
ms brenner		Louisa Brenner. We were expecting you earlier.
ms brenner		I should warn you: for a long time Hanna held herself together. She was very purposeful. In the last few years she's different. She's let herself go.
ms brenner		They're in the canteen. They're just finishing lunch.
hanna		You've grown up, kid.
michael		I've got a friend who's a tailor, he makes my suits. He'll give you a job. And I've found you somewhere to live. It's a nice place. Quite small but nice. I think you'll like it.
hanna		Thank you.
michael		There are various social programmes, cultural stuff I can sign you up for. And there's a public library very close.
michael		You read a lot?
hanna		I prefer being read to.
hanna		That's over now, isn't it?
hanna		Did you get married?
michael		I did. Yes I did. We have a daughter. I'm not seeing as much of her as I would like. I'd like to see a great deal more of her.
michael		The marriage didn't last.
michael		Have you spent a lot of time thinking about the past?
hanna		You mean, with you?
michael		No. No, I didn't mean with me.
hanna		Before the trial I never thought about the past. I never had to.
michael		And now? What do you feel now?
hanna		It doesn't matter what I think. It doesn't matter what I feel. The dead are still dead.
michael		I wasn't sure what you'd learnt.
hanna		I have learnt, kid. I've learnt to read.
michael		I'll pick you up next week, OK?
hanna		That sounds a good plan.
michael		Good. Quietly, or shall we make a big fuss?
hanna		Quietly.
michael		OK. Quietly.
hanna		Take care, kid.
michael		You too.
michael		See you next week.
michael		She didn't pack. She never intended to leave.
ms brenner		She left me a message, a sort of will. I'll read out the bit that concerns you.
ms brenner		"There is money in the old tea tin. Give it to Michael Berg. He should send it, alongside the 7,000 marks in the bank, to the daughter who wrote the book. It's for her. She should decide what to do with it. And tell Michael I said hello. Tell him to get on with his life."
ms brenner		Do you want to see her?
michael		Ms Mather?
ilana		Yes. You're Michael Berg. I was expecting you.
ilana		So you must tell me: what exactly brings you to the United States?
michael		I was already here. I was at a conference in Boston.
ilana		You're a lawyer?
michael		Yes.
ilana		I was intrigued by your letter but I can't say I wholly understood it. You attended the trial?
michael		Yes. Almost twenty years ago. I was a law student. I remember you, I remember your mother very clearly.
ilana		My mother died in Israel - a good many years ago.
michael		I'm sorry.
ilana		Go on, please.
michael		Perhaps you heard. Hanna Schmitz recently died. She killed herself.
ilana		She was a friend of yours?
michael		A kind of friend. It's as simple as this. Hanna was illiterate for the greater part of her life.
ilana		Is that an explanation of her behaviour?
michael		No.
ilana		Or an excuse?
michael		No. No. She taught herself to read when she was in prison. I sent her tapes. She'd always liked being read to.
ilana		Why don't you start by being honest with me? At least start that way. What was the nature of your friendship?
michael		When I was young I had an affair with Hanna.
ilana		I'm not sure I can help you, Mr. Berg. Or rather, even if I could I'm not willing to.
michael		I was almost sixteen when I took up with her. The affair only lasted a summer. But.
ilana		But what?
ilana		I see. And did Hanna Schmitz acknowledge the effect she'd had on your life?
michael		She'd done much worse to other people. I've never told anyone.
ilana		People ask all the time what I learned in the camps. But the camps weren't therapy. What do you think these places were? Universities? We didn't go there to learn. One becomes very clear about these things.
ilana		What are you asking for? Forgiveness for her? Or do you just want to feel better yourself? My advice, go to the theatre, if you want catharsis. Please. Go to literature. Don't go to the camps. Nothing comes out of the camps. Nothing.
michael		What she wanted...what she wanted was to leave you her money. I have with me.
ilana		To do what?
michael		As you think fit.
michael		Here.
ilana		When I was a little girl, I had a tea-tin for my treasures. Not quite like this. It had Cyrillic lettering. I took it with me to the camp, but it got stolen.
michael		What was in it?
ilana		Oh. Sentimental things. A piece of hair from our dog. Some tickets to operas my father had taken me to. It wasn't stolen for its contents. It was the tin itself which was valuable, what you could do with it.
ilana		There's nothing I can do with this money. If I give it to anything associated with the extermination of the Jews, then to me it will seem like absolution and that is something I'm neither willing nor in a position to grant.
michael		I was thinking maybe an organization to encourage literacy.
ilana		Good.
ilana		Good.
michael		Do you know if there's a Jewish organization?
ilana		I'll be surprised if there isn't. There's a Jewish organisation for everything. Not that illiteracy is a very Jewish problem.
ilana		Why don't you find out? Send them the money.
michael		Shall I do it in Hanna's name?
ilana		As you think fit.
ilana		I'll keep the tin.
julia		Where are we going?
michael		I thought you liked surprises.
julia		I do. I do like surprises.
julia		Hanna Schmitz.
julia		Who was she?
michael		That's what I wanted to tell you. That's why we're here.
julia		So tell me.
michael		I was 15, I was coming home from school, I was ill...
****Dialogues from script :Real_Genius.txt****

bomber pilot		 Watchdog, Slingshot. let us know when the rabbit's in the hole.
atherton		The shuttle pilot climbs into his seat, straps in and checks his instruments.
shuttle pilot		All systems check. Crossbow is armed.
insert		PILOT'S POV OF THE SCREEN Crosshairs, a grid patter and digital, rangefinder readouts appear over various parts of the Earth's topography as the pilot searches for his target. Then it steadies on a polarized image of a group of people. One of the images seems to stand out brighter than the others.
pilot		 Scanner on. Target locked. Tracking locked.
pilot		Nice and easy does it.
carmichael		Nice little weapon isn't it, Dave?
decker		Well, I guess so, but gosh, Don, it's a movie. You want me to start buying weapons from George Lucas?
carmichael		Now that would be somethin', wouldn't it?
decker		Well, sometimes I think I might as well.  What do you think of what you saw, Roy?
roy		I think there weren't enough girls. More polite laughter. Then Roy turns ice cold in a flash.
carmichael		No, Sir, this thing would take the skin right off, of Air Force One if you wanted. Not that I'm saying we'd ever want to kill our own President, but, you know, for example.
roy		Our studies indicate that this type of weapon is totally useless for warfare.
decker		It's not intended for use in your kind of warfare, Roy. This is a perfect peace time weapon.
roy		What's the kill potential?
carmichael		As soon as the size-to power ratio is licked we'll have about seven bangs for the buck.
roy		When that?
decker		Seriously, Don, I have to report to the Secretary that everything's on schedule. We have plans for your little ray's gun this summer.
carmichael		 As I understand it, guys, there's some major practical difficulties. I'm pushing as hard as I can.
decker		Well, Don, you tell those geniuses you've got until the end of the next fiscal quarter to come up with a working model or I'm pulling the plug on the funding.
carmichael		 I'm assured they're on the verge of a major breakthrough.
decker		Good. Just as long as we get a working weapon out of it by June. Right, general?
roy		I wouldn't know, Dave. I haven't had a working weapon since Korea.
decker		Right.  Larry, let's see the film on blinding techniques, then we'll have some lunch, all right?
girl		It doesn't seem to be working; but if it was, these gases would be going around.
a boy		We don't care.
harry		Hi, my name is Harry. Let me guess your weight and age...midget mutant; weight...
old lady		Are you Dr. Atherton?
atherton		Yes, dear.
old lady		I just love your television show.
atherton		Well, thank you. We try.
old lady		What's Albert Einstein really like?
atherton		Dead.
old lady		Oh, I thought you had him on.
atherton		No, that was just an actor.
old lady		Is everyone an actor, then?
atherton		 No, I'm a physicist.
old lady		But Einstein isn't?
atherton		 Nice talking to you.
mitch		See, Dad, it's coherent light.
mitch		No.
atherton		Hello, Mrs. Simon. How are you?
atherton		No, no. I just thought I'd stop by, bring you the good news myself. I just got word from the admissions committee. We did it. Mitch is in.
atherton		 Hello, Mitch.
mitch		 Hi.
atherton		Nice little display?
mitch		Thanks
atherton		What's your medium?
mitch		Just Argon. But I have it all structured for HF if I could get some.
atherton		That would be interesting.
mitch		It's all theoretical at this stage, but I have the power supply completely worked out.
atherton		Very nice.
mitch		 Thanks.
atherton		You must be very proud. he's the first student we've ever accepted for winter term entrance at Pacific Tech.
atherton		No, actually. The youngest we've had was a twelve, but he cracked under the pressure within six months so we don't really count him.
atherton		 Well, no...but by allowing Mitch to progress at an accelerated rate we give him the opportunity to fulfill a far greater portion of his remarkable intellectual potential. Don't you agree?
atherton		 Well, I guess we scientists are a little different than athletes.
atherton		Smarter
atherton		Oh, yes?
atherton		 Well, interesting question, when you consider the philosophical aspects of whether anything on television is "real" or actually just an "image" being broadcast.  MR. SIMON Didn't look real. Anyway, listen, I got to get something to eat or I'm gonna die.
atherton		Your parents...
mitch		Yes?
atherton		They're...nice
mitch		They're Okay. They just sometimes don't have any idea of what I'm talking about.
atherton		I'm sure of that. Afraid you're going to miss your friends?
mitch		No. I don't have any. I think I intimidate other kids.
atherton		Good boy.
mitch		I don't want to.
atherton		Remember, compared to you, most people have the IQ of a carrot. We're different than most people, Mitch, but you should be proud of that. I mean, look around. From now on, you'll BE amongst peers, colleagues. I suppose I might as well tell you now, I've put you on my personal research team. Some of the finest minds on campus, not the least of which is, of course, my own.
mitch		It sounds great.
atherton		Well, now, I'm expecting great things from you, my boy. This is only the second time I've given this honor to a freshman. The first was...
mitch		Chris Kinsley.
atherton		You know Chris?
mitch		No, but he's a legend in the Physics Club.
atherton		Well, you're going to become a legend yourself. You'll be working with Chris. He's a senior now but he's still on the team and still as brilliant as ever.
mitch		Wow.
jensen		 Guys, I want you to meet Chris Kinsley. Chris, this is Sherry Nugil, my assistant, and Mike Dodd.
chris		Dr. Dodd?
jensen		He's the man who just designed the new Telcom Satellite here.
chris		I know. Nice to meet you Dr. Dodd. Isn't the Telcom raining debris all over Europe?
dodd		 That was a launch problem, not a design problem. Why are you wearing that toy on your head?
chris		Oh, this. Sorry, I was worried that people would think I was stuffy, You know, no fun; all brain, no penis,
jensen		Pardon?
chris		I'm sorry, it's just an infantile response to authority.
jensen		 Yes. you are Chris Kinsley, aren't you?
chris		No. Well, yes. I mean, I used to be.  Now I'm Mhavishnue Kinsley.
jensen		 I see. You are being funny.
chris		Well, I just can't help it. You're such a fun guy yourself.
jensen		Oh yes. I think you'll find we all are, right Mike?
dodd		No.
jensen		Now Chris, Sherry is going to show you around the place. She can answer any questions you might have about fringe benefits or dress codes or anything and I'll see you back upstairs when you're done, okay? Sherry, take good care of this young man. He's one of the ten finest minds kin the country.
chris		Someday I hope to be two of them.
jensen		See you later.
chris		You are very beautiful.
sherry		You don't act like one of the top ten minds in America.
chris		Oh, really? How many of them have you met?
sherry		 Seven.
chris		Really?
sherry		You'll be eight. Six was Professor Hostetler at M.I.T.
sherry		He is now.
sherry		And so, coupled with full insurance coverage and bonus plans, you find it adding up to a fairly sizable perks package.
chris		I have a pretty sizable perks package right now.
sherry		Also, we understand that you people don't care too much for rigid timetables, and that's pretty rare in private industry.
chris		So are you.
sherry		Is it true that school of yours keeps getting smarter and smarter kids every year?
chris		Yup! I mean no!
sherry		You see the funding associations are the same. Our theoretical work is in the Blue Sky sector as well.
chris		You have no idea how much I need that kind of continuity in my life right now.
sherry		You just belong here, Chris. We have several of Dr. Atherton's former students and they're all doing quite well with us.
chris		What number was he?
sherry		Two. One of his other students was four.
chris		You're wonderful.
sherry		I know.
chris		Can we go somewhere?
sherry		Yes.  EXT. ROOF OF HANGER-DUSK The giant dish of a huge radio telescope faces heavens.  SHERRY  What?  ANGLE ON CHRIS AND SHERRY They are lying in the middle of the dish. Passion mounts, fingers cope with belts and buttons, clothing falls away; my god, these people are having sex.
sherry		Please I need it. What was your favorite course?
chris		I guess right now I'd have to say Fluid Mechanics.
sherry		Oooooooooh...
chris		 And Gym.
sherry		Please.
chris		Sorry.
sherry		What's your research with Artherton?
chris		Ultra-high power laser as an energy force for fusion. Tremendous boon to all mankind. And womankind, too.
sherry		Fusion, more fusion.
chris		It's the process for obtaining enormous amounts of energy from forms of hydrogen, like Deuterium and Tritium.
sherry		Oh, my God, more.
chris		Extracting the fuels is no problem.
sherry		Hmmmm.
chris		Getting them to combine and release the energy is the problem.
sherry		Oohh, yes
chris		It takes temperatures of 100 million degrees Celsius.
sherry		Oh, God.
chris		So, I'm...
sherry		Yes.
chris		...building...
sherry		Yes.
chris		...a laser...
sherry		Oh, yes.
chris		...that pulses...
sherry		Hmmmmmmmm.
chris		...very hot...
sherry		Ohhh...
chris		...and causes...
sherry		Yes.
chris		...Fusion...
sherry		Ahhhhhhhhhhh.
mitch		Good afternoon. I'm looking for  the President's Freshman Tea.
mitch		Mitch Simon.
mitch		I'm a minor.
meredith		People, if I might get your attention.
meredith		Oh, yes, Professor Artherton's bright star.
mitch		Yes, sir.
meredith		And I understand you're already on his project. I'm assured you're going to do great things.
mitch		I hope so.
meredith		Let me give you some advice.
mitch		Thank you.
meredith		Don't screw up.
mitch		Okay. I guess I better go now.
meredith		 I think the young people really appreciate my " getting down" verbally, don't you?
mitch		Yes?
kent		Just leave the sandwiches and go.
mitch		Me?
kent		No, Yoda; yeah, you.
mitch		I don't have any ah...
carter		Brains?
mitch		No, sandwiches.
kent		Well then, what good are you?
carter		What are we supposed to eat?
mitch		 How about my shorts.
kent		Hey! Who do you think you're talking to?
mitch		No. I'm Mitch Simon. I'm a student. Dr. Atherton told me to come up here.
kent		Oh, you're the new stud, are you. Or is it dud?
mitch		How do you mean?
bodie		Stud. Hot shot. Brain. You're the twelve-year-old, right?
mitch		I'm fifteen.
carter		Does your body know that?
mitch		Are you expecting him or...
kent		Sure. Can I get you something? A balloon?
mitch		Are any of you guys Chris Kinsley?
kent		No, Thank God.
carter		Hey Kent, I hear Kinsley got that PEI job all locked up.
kent		Damn! I wanted that job.
mitch		Why?
kent		Why? Because it starts at fifty thousand a year, that's why. Plus travel, car, stock options...
mitch		Oh. Well, I'm supposed to have a look at your work up to date. Check it over.
kent		Check it over.
mitch		Yes.
kent		For what?
mitch		Mistakes, I guess. He said you guys are stuck.
kent		Let's get something very clear here. Everything you've heard about the supportive student body and the honor code might hold for the rest of the campus, but it doesn't count for squat in here. Which means when jerry's not here, you do what I say. From God to Jerry to me, get it?
atherton		I've told you before, Kent, you don't get to use my first name.
kent		Did I?
atherton		 Good to see you, Mitch.
kent		We're well on our way already.
atherton		Good, because after Mitch is brought up to date, I want the rest of you to take your cues from him. He'll be in charge of the group.
kent		What? I mean, good choice, Jerry.
atherton		You're doing it again, Kent.
kent		Am I?
atherton		Where's Chris?
kent		He didn't bother to come in today.
bodie		He said he didn't feel like it; and then I said 'you better'; and then he said ' or what?'; and then I said ' or he'd get the heck,' and then he said 'jam it, it's Sunday' and he looks for God on Sundays; so I said 'okay, but I'm telling.'
atherton		Thank you Bodie. I notice you've stopped stuttering.
bodie		Yes, I've been giving myself some sock treatment and it's working.
atherton		Good.  I'm sorry he isn't here. I wanted you to meet your hero.
carter		Hero? That clown? Look at this.
kent		It looks like it'll take at least a week to re-do all this and start again.
atherton		Are you sure?
carter		Positive.
kent		Positive.
mitch		 There's a mistake all right, but I think you guys made it. Look, you inverted the last two steps.
carter		 ...Usually.
atherton		Damnit, don't touch other people's things.
mitch		 This shouldn't take too long to fix.
atherton		I'm glad that you were here, Mitch.
kent		Yes, thanks for pointing out Carter's mistake, Mitch.
atherton		Don't bother with that now. I'm sure you want to go get settled.
mitch		 Well, it has been kind of a long day.
atherton		Oh, I forgot Kent, I need your help.
kent		Anything, Jerry.
atherton		Stop it.
kent		What?
atherton		Get copies made of everything so young Mitch here can get started  checking everything tomorrow.
kent		My pleasure.
atherton		And then, on your way back, stop at my cleaners.
kent		Don't give it a thought. I enjoy it.
atherton		 Shall we?
mitch		Sure.
bodie		I guess it goes from God to Jerry to you to the cleaners, right Kent?
mitch		Hello?
mitch		Hello?
mitch		What kind of place is this?
chris		Hi.
mitch		What is this thing?
chris		It's a penis stretcher. You want to try it out?
mitch		No!
chris		Oh really? Well, congratulations, then, No, It's an Iron Mike.
mitch		What?
chris		A baseball pitching machine.
mitch		I was here for a second this morning...
chris		 You didn't straighten the place up, did you?
mitch		 No.
chris		Good. 'Cause all my filth's in alphabetical order.
mitch		Anyway, I dropped off my luggage and now all my bags are empty.
chris		I put your stuff away for you.
chris		What a game. I'm Chris Kinsley.
mitch		Oh, no.
carmichael		We're falling way behind, Jer.
atherton		Well, we're not making cheese sandwiches here, you know, Don.
carmichael		That's a good one. I'll have to remember to use that, Jer.
atherton		The new boy is quick.
carmichael		He better be because the company needs a practical working model within four months.
atherton		You can't dictate innovation.
carmichael		Let me put this another way, Jer. You  know all that money we've been spending for development?
atherton		Yes
carmichael		Well, when a project gets cut off, the finance boys always run an audit.
atherton		I see.
carmichael		 Having a little work done on the old place, are you? Looks nice.
chris		Welcome to Pacific Tech's "Smart People On Ice."
chris		 Ice turned out real good, Ick.
chris		What did you use?
chris		 Come on, people. Nobody's skating.
chris		Moles and trolls.
mitch		What?
chris		Moles and trolls. Work, work, work, work. I plan this for weeks. I go to a lot of trouble and all they want to do is study. I'm hurt. I know that's it's not like me but I'm sorry. I'm starting to get discouraged, people. We had nobody at the mutant hamster races, one entry in the Madame Curie look-alike contest, and he was disqualified later. Why do I even bother?
mitch		 How does he do it?
mitch		Not skating. The horsing around. The never studying. I know he's smart. but nobody's that smart.
mitch		You okay?
jordan		No, not emotionally, no I'm not. I'm disappointed... not terribly, but still, it should have gone much, further, much faster. It's okay, though, I know what the problem is, that's simple, it's obviously the drag coefficient, I'll just have to re-design the blades. I can do that, that's easy. I can do that here; but I have to cut then after they're designed, that takes tools, that takes time. How long is this stuff going to last, do you know?
jordan		That's great, that's good. I can do that, no problem, lots of time.  What's your name?
mitch		Mitch
jordan		Thanks for the help. See you.
mitch		Your welcome.  Who was that?
jordan		 I'm Jordan, I realized I'd forgotten to tell you my name, it's Jordan. I heard there was going to be someone new this term, are you a freshman?
mitch		Yes.
jordan		Do you have a bed?
mitch		Yeah.
jordan		Oh, I was going to make you one if you needed it but you don't so that's okay. Well, I gotta go, I'll see you later, probably. See you Ick, see you Mitch.
kent		What's all this suppose to be?
chris		This? This is new kind of shovel.
kent		 This should keep you busy for awhile. This, plus your regular class load should turn your brains to mush in a month.
mitch		Aw! Kent, we were going to name you King of the Winter Carnival.
kent		Ha ha.  I suppose you're in on this, too. Did you make this stuff?
kent		Who's going to clean it up?
kent		 Really? What is it?
kent		You're all a bunch of degenerates.
chris		We are? What about that time I caught you naked with a bowl of Jello?
kent		 I...you... I was hot and I was hungry. And anyway...Look, Kinsley, you're not number one anymore.
chris		Number one what?
kent		 Mighty mouse, here, beat your placement scores by over twenty points.
chris		Really? I guess you think you're pretty hot stuff?
mitch		 Well...no, I mean
chris		Hey! Maybe you are smarter than me, but, can you do this?
mitch		That's neat.
chris		 Ick?
mitch		Hello?
jordan		Hi, good morning, I thought I saw you come in here, you must be an earlier riser, we met last night, I'm Jordan, remember? I had a sled with me, I made you a sweater.
mitch		Last night?
jordan		yeah, it's just something I do with my hands while I'm reading. I hope I got the size right, I'm pretty sure I did, I have a brother so I use him as a sizing comparison, and I have a pretty good eye for that sort of thing, so I just went ahead and made you one because I was, you know, up. Peeing?
mitch		Yeah.
jordan		I never sleep. I don't know why. It drove my roommate nuts. I mean really nuts, they had to take her away in an ambulance and everything, she's okay now thought but she had to be transfer to an easier school but I don't know if that part has anything to do with being my fault, but still, anyway, if you ever want any help studying at night or just let me know, okay, 'cause I'm just a couple of doors down from you guys and I'm usually up and I wouldn't mind, okay?
mitch		Thanks, I will.
jordan		Are you finished yet?
mitch		I can't start.
jordan		Because I'm here?
mitch		I think so.
jordan		Isn't that weird? Well, I have to go.
mitch		Me, too.
jordan		Right, well, don't forget what I said, I'll put the sweater in your room, see you later, tell Chris that if he wants one I'll be happy to make him one but nit today because after classes I'm going to rebuild the back part of my room, you should come down and see it later, I have to go, bye.
mitch		 bye.
mitch		Something strange happened to me this morning.
chris		Was it a dream where you see yourself dressed up in kind of sun god robes standing on top of a pyramid with all theses nude women throwing little pickles at you?
mitch		No
chris		Why am I the only person who has that dream?
mitch		Liquid nitrogen?
chris		Coffee?
chris		So, what's happened?
mitch		Oh. There's a guy living in our closet.
chris		You've seen him too?
mitch		Who is it?
chris		Hopsfield.
mitch		Is he... safe?
chris		So far.
carter		 It's nothing. It's just mechanical.
atherton		GOOD. Don't bother changing it. I want you and Bodie to rebuild the whole unit; same output in half the size. Should hold up, right Mitch?
mitch		Sure, as long as we go with H.F.
atherton		Well, gentlemen, now what? Things are going okay so far, aren't they?
kent		They certainly are in my area, Jerry.
atherton		 KENT
kent		 Yes?
mitch		Boy, when I think of all the applications for this...!
atherton		 We've got enough theory to deal with without talking applications. You just worry about giving me that power breakthrough. how close are you?
kent		 Not very, from what I hear.
atherton		 Aren't you and Chris working together?
mitch		Yes...but...
atherton		Where is Mr. Kinsley?
kent		 He's outside.
chris		Coming.
atherton		What are you doing out there?
chris		Floating, sir.  And thinking.
atherton		 I want to see you at my house at six o'clock. Sharp.
chris		Sounds fun. Should I bring anything?
atherton		How about a proper attitude for a change?
chris		I'll try and borrow one. Now, if you'll excuse me, there are millions of boys and girls everywhere waiting for me to bring them presents. Ho ho ho.
kent		He's really pushing it, isn't he, Jerry?
chris		You wanted to see me, your joggingness?
atherton		Mr. Kinsley. Right on time. What a surprise. Do you run?
chris		Only when chased.
atherton		What are you eating?
chris		It's one of mark's Ickagami's experiments. He's been irradiating corn with strontium. it's his hobby; big food.
atherton		That's popcorn?
chris		It's big popcorn.
atherton		 Get it away from me. I can't stand it. I hate popcorn. Leave it there. Chris puts the bag down on the porch.
chris		Okay. Have you ever considered switching to de-caffeinated coffee?
atherton		I want to start seeing a lot more of you in the lab.
chris		You want me to work nude?
atherton		Very funny, you're a major disappointment to me, Chris.
chris		And you to me, Jerry.
atherton		 We had a deal!
chris		And I advanced your project more than any three guys on campus.
atherton		That was yesterday. What have you done for me today?
chris		Hey, aren't you getting a little obsessive about this? I took in the new kid. He's working his guts out for you.
atherton		Your arrogant, disrespectful behavior is distracting him. If you keep it up, you're going to pay for it.
chris		Hey, I'm out of here. Delenda Est Cartheo. P.E.I. July one.
atherton		You still have to pass, dear boy, and considering the fact that my class is a requisite, it would seem that I would have some control over your destiny. From now on, you and Mr. Simon are going to spend every waking moment working on my power problem and you will solve it by my deadline.
chris		Okay, Jerry, but I really think you should see an analyst.
chris		Hi. Do me a favor, taste this.
mitch		I...
chris		Well, too sweet?
mitch		What is it?
chris		Beats me. I just found it in one of the labs.
mitch		Aggghh!!
chris		Come on. I'm just pulling your leg. How are you doing?
mitch		I'm stuck. Dr. Atherton says we've got to miniaturize the power supply and you're not helping.
chris		Lighten up. It's only a laser.
mitch		What for?
chris		You'll see. Go
mitch		All set, I think.
chris		Do it.
chris's pov		A roomful of capacitors loading.
chris		Relax, it's just the fuses at the sub station. They'll have it back on in a second. More importantly, did we get a charge?
mitch		Wow!
chris		Follow the yellow brick road.
mitch		Have you ever considered the fact that you are completely wasting your life?
chris		Constantly.
chris		Come on in, boys. Surf's up.
cornell		 I have a geochemistry test tomorrow and I do not feel adequately prepared.
chris		But the main thing is you look good.
cornell		Thanks.
milton		What if we end up having too much fun and end up failing?
chris		And would that be the end of the world. Milton?
milton		Yes, it would.
chris		Yeah, you're right. Maybe you should go back to the library.
milton		Well, maybe I could just look for a minute.
cornell		 Are those girls?
chris		I haven't had them all tested yet, Cornell, but so far so good.
mitch		Who are they?
milton		They're not from here. I'd know.
chris		No, no they're not, they're from a nearby college though.
mitch		Which one?
chris		The Wanda Trossler School of beauty.
mitch		They're beauticians?
chris		Not yet.
cornell		Gee, I don't know...
chris		They'll teach you. Let's get serious here, lads. There are 670 guys at pacific tech and 136 girls.
chris		Good, Milton. Of the 136 girls, most of them can find guys a lot better than you.
cornell		Oh, easily.
chris		These girls are not used to geniuses. You might impress them.
cornell		I don't see how.
chris		Let me put this another way. Given the type of people you are and the environment you're in, you guys have to admit the strong probability that this may be the only chance you'll ever get in your entire lives to have sex.
vivian		So, what do you guys do? Just be smart all the time?
milton		Well...
vivian		What's your major?
milton		Astrophysics.
vivian		Is that like sports medicine?
milton		Space.
vivian		 Oh! Let me ask you something about that. If I was on the moon, Could I like tease hair much higher?
milton		Theoretically.
vivian		This is fascinating.
connie		My friend Evelyn, tells me that brilliant men are the best lovers.
fenton		I'd say that's true.
connie		Up to now, what's been your ultimate sexual experience?
fenton		I once fell off a ladder and landed on my sister, Bernice.
louisa		Why do you wear those glasses?
cornell		So I can see.
louisa		But you look very sexy without them.
milton		I really should be studying.
vivian		Me too. I have a bleaching final tomorrow.
milton		 Achew.
vivian		Bless you.
milton		I'm allergic to suntan oil.
vivian		Maybe you should stop.
milton		 I don't think I can
louisa		 You know, I read in the Enquirer that woman paid twenty thousand dollars for the sperm of a genius.
cornell		Really?
louisa		 I've GOT TWENTY BUCKS?
cornell		Do you have a cup?
mitch		 Hi.
tammy		Hi.
tammy		Yes?
tammy		Yeah? Is this the kiddy pool?
chris		Don't eat that!
kimberly		Huh?
chris		Don't you know eating that stuff can give you very large breasts?  Oh. My god! I see I'm too late.
atherton		Christ, Don. I'm doing the best I can.  You act like I don't want my own invention to work. There are only so many hours in a day.
carmichael		I agree. And what's more important, massaging your ego on television explaining the digestive system of a rabbit to the great unwashed or "project crossbow"
makeupman		Off-hand, I'd say television.
atherton		 There's nothing more important than " crossbow," but when went from blue sky to black you turned into Bigfoot.
stage manager		Ready to go, Dr. Atherton.
atherton		Pushing me doesn't help. You tell them that.
carmichael		 Asshole.
kent		I have something to...
atherton		 Did you pick up my dry cleaning?
kent		Yes I did... there's something you should know.
atherton		The gravy stain?
kent		No, that came out.  Chris and Mitch aren't working. They're at a party.
atherton		I want to show me where, right after I'm finished here.
kent		 My pleasure.
stage manager		In five...four...
atherton		Good evening. Tonight we're going to look at something most of us take for granted... the colon. What's it look like?
jordan		Wanna play?
mitch		I'm not very...
jordan		Some party, huh?
mitch		I guess.  How come you're not...
jordan		Necking?
mitch		well...
jordan		I'm not gay.
mitch		 I didn't... I wouldn't even...
jordan		Look, I'm seventeen. I'm brilliant, and I'm hyper kinetic. Guy are a little afraid of me, you know. It'll pass...I hope.
mitch		 I think you're very nice.
atherton		 Simon!
atherton		You were supposed to be in the lab tonight.
kent		 Weren't you!
mitch		I was and...
atherton		You are at Pacific Tech to work, not to behave like a philistine.
kent		That's right!
mitch		I was working, I...
atherton		Where's Kinsley. I imagine this was his idea.
kent		No doubt!
atherton		 Kent!
kent		 yes?
atherton		 I took a big chance recommending a fifteen-year-old. I guess I made a mistake. I hope you're proud of yourself.
cornell		Dr. Atherton?
atherton		What!
cornell		Are you wearing makeup?
louisa		Is it too try and hide those crows' feet?
kent		 Gee, he looks depressed.
mitch		I know, but I don't like it here anymore. I want to live at home with you...  Yeah, and dad. I want to go back to high school. I-dad did what? Rented out my room? ...Well, why can't Mr. Echevarria and I share it?... Please, ma, I want to come home.
chris		Kent...let's never fight like that again.
kent		What?
chris		We've been lovers too long to have a silly argument come between us.
kent		Chris...
chris		Please. Don't speak. You were right. Tonight I'll wear the cowboy suit.
kent		 You...
waitress		Do your parents know about this?
kent		Of course not!
another angle		Chris walks over to Mitch.
chris		Where were you all last night?
mitch		The lab. Where you were supposed to be.
chris		Jordan told me about Atherton coming down on you...what exactly did...
another angle		Ken, Bodie and Carter. The gentle strains of classical music fill the room.
kent		Something soothing to eat by.
another angle		Everyone stops eating and listens to Mitch begging his mother to come home. They share his embarrassment and lower their heads. Even Kent's friends are uncomfortable. Kent, on the other hand, is laughing it up, having a great time.
kent		 Here comes the crying!
chris		 Too low.
chris		Okay, if you want to leave, go ahead. But you'll miss the fun.
mitch		 What fun?
chris		Ick invented a new virus and we're gonna release it in Kent's room.
mitch		That's sick! That's a sick thing to do!
chris		Hey, I was just kidding, I...
mitch		You're always just kidding. There's something wrong with you.
chris		Just a second...
mitch		The other night I needed your help and all you wanted to do was party.
chris		I tried to help you. I tried to help you relax.
mitch		Being snubbed by beauticians isn't my idea of relaxing.
chris		Student beauticians.
mitch		 I thought this place was going to be different, but it's just the same. I'm either used or made fun of. In high school they pushed me in a mailbox, did I tell you that?
chris		They called me Chris the whiss'...
mitch		Really? What's a whiss?
chris		I think they meant wuss, but it didn't rhyme...when I was three years old, I balanced my father's checkbook so they sent me to school and fired their accountant. My father was so intimidated, he stopped speaking to me. My teacher disliked me because I was smarter than they were, and my classmates hated me because I bell the bell curve. Sound familiar? And tell me why my...why did my mother dress me in white shirts, hush puppies and a briefcase, guaranteeing that a girl would never talk to me?
mitch		YOU?
chris		 And then one night, in this room, I was sitting right where you are sitting now. I had a vision. I saw him.
mitch		god
chris		Hopsfield.
mitch		Hopsfield? Oh! The guy in the closet.
chris		Yeah. Laslo Hopsfield. I followed him. Through the closet; down into the steam tunnels. And down there I saw the most disgusting thing Ive ever seen.
mitch		 What?
chris		Hopsfield in his pajamas.
chris		 And I talk to the guy . Turned out that in the Seventies he was the number one stud around here. Smarter than you and me put together. So brilliant, so sharp, so advanced, so long.
mitch		What do you mean?
chris		He graduated. Went to work for some chemical company. One day someone told him he was making stuff that was killing people. I think it was his mother. He freaked. You see, he was totally unprepared for the real world. He had no philosophy. He thought science was the answer for everything.
chris		Yes, you are, Metaphorically speaking. Unless you see that the same thing that has made your life miserable can make it great; your brain. When you're smart, people need you, and you can learn how to work that for fun and profit.
mitch		You had a arrangement going with Atherton, don't you? That's why you don't have to study.
chris		Hey, I don't carry a briefcase.  You're a nice kid. If you leave I'll miss you.
mitch		 If I stay, what should I do, I mean...
chris		Well, the first thing you have to do is get even with Kent. It's a moral imperative.
mitch		 Yeah.
kent		And at Northern Electronics you get the stock options, but not the free housing, It's what makes PEI so sweet. You get everything.
carter		Yeah, and Kinsley's got that locked.
kent		 Maybe he does, and maybe he doesn't. They walk away.
jordan		Over here!
chris		He puts his name on his car. He does the same thing with his underwear.
montage		Chris, Mitch, Jordan and Ick working on Kent's car. They are undoing bolts, talking out wires, removing fenders, etc. The last DISSOLVE and we see the car is gone. And no sign of our foursome.
another angle		Chris and Mitch enter.
chris		Hey, Kent. That's your car.
mitch		You're not supposed to park on campus.
kent		This isn't funny. You went too far this time, Kinsley.
chris		I had help.
kent		 I'm going to get you guys. Dr. Atherton's gonna hear about this.
chris		 He'll never pay us.
chris		Wow! Hello.
susan		Hi.
chris		Jerry asked me to drop by. What did he ask you to do?
susan		What?
chris		Which word didn't you understand?
susan		Are you here for the meeting?
chris		What meeting?
susan		I don't know.
chris		Okay.
susan		I'm just waiting.
chris		Right.
decker		 And finally, it comes down to, if you can't do it, we'll get somebody else. I have a timetable, doctor.
carmichael		We're very close, Dave, don't worry, everything's going to be fine.
decker		 I think I've made my point, haven't I?
atherton		 Crystal clear, Mr. Decker.
decker		Good.
chris		Anything I should know about?
atherton		Shut up Kinsley. I'll be with you in a moment.
decker		Goodbye, Jerry, and good luck. Susan?
chris		I guess this is goodbye. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to know you. At all.  Have you ever seen breasts like theses before?
decker		She happens to be my daughter.
chris		Oh, then I guess you have.
carmichael		 I'll be reporting to him every day.
decker		Coming, Don?
carmichael		Yes, Sir.
atherton		What do you think you're doing?
chris		You said come over.
atherton		Take off those shoes.
chris		What's up, Doc.
atherton		I'm withdrawing your recommendation to PEI.
chris		What?
atherton		I'm giving Kent the job.
chris		Did you suddenly find humor?
atherton		You haven't solved my power problem.
chris		I'm trying.
atherton		No, you're not. So, I'm going to fail you, so you won't graduate, so you can't take the job. Q.E.D.
chris		I'll pass your exam.
atherton		Did we? That doesn't sound very ethical.
chris		You can't do this. I'll go to Dr. Meredith.
atherton		 Go ahead. What are you going to tell him. Don't forget, like most scientists, he is an honorable, moral man who thinks everyone else is too. I'll just deny anything you say.
chris		You dick!
atherton		Count on it.
mitch		What are you doing?
chris		Self-realization. I was thinking of jumping, but it's only twelve feet.
mitch		Something wrong?
chris		No. Atherton is going to flunk me out of school.
mitch		But you had a deal.
chris		Yeah, and he says I didn't deliver. You sleep with pits, you wake up smelly. I think Aristotle said that. It was him or Eva Gabor. At least Hopsfield still has his integrity.
mitch		Excuse me?
chris		I thought I was so smart. I didn't want to be like the other dumb geniuses like Hopsfield. I though I could use Them., instead of Them using me. But, Guess what?
mitch		I have to agree. It does appear that you've been the victim of your own erroneous logic.
chris		Thank you.
mitch		However, this doesn't mean that you can't get yourself out.
chris		How?
mitch		Hard work?
chris		But that's the old way.
grinding montage		A series of shots showing Chris hard at work, underscored by an original song.
mitch		 Please, Vito, not in the mailbox again.
chris		Mitch!
mitch		Oh... I was just reliving some high school highlights.
chris		Look, you don't have to stay up with me. It's not like we're driving. Get some sleep. You're a growing boy. I hope.
chris		Hi, Laslo.
hopsfield		I thought you might want some help so I dug into the computer and got every question Artherton's ever asked on every final he ever given.
chris		Gee, I didn't get you anything. Is that them?
hopsfield		No, these are entries for McDonald's Sweepstakes. No purchase necessary. Enter as often as you want. So, I am.
chris		Really?
hopsfield		This box makes it one million, six hundred thousand. I should win thirty two point six percent of the prizes, including the car.
chris		Kind of takes the fun out of it, doesn't it?
hopsfield		I suppose so. But they set up the rules, and lately, I have come to realize that I have certain materialistic needs.
chris		So where are the questions?
hopsfield		 I memorized them.
mitch		I have to go to sleep now.
hopsfield		Want my pajamas?
mitch		Uhhh...thanks, no.
hopsfield		Smart kid. He's going to grow five inches in the next year.
chris		How do you...never mind.
female voice		Mitch?
mitch		 Jordan?
sherry		Mitch Simon?
mitch		Who?
sherry		I'm Sherry Nugil. And I've been waiting three years for this.
mitch		For what?
sherry		For you to be old enough.
mitch		For what?
sherry		For this.
mitch		For what?
sherry		Why do you keep saying, 'For what?'
mitch		'Cause so far it's working great.
jordan		 Come in.
jordan		Oh, hi, Mitch. I'm just sanding the floor.
mitch		Could you turn that off a second?
jordan		What's wrong? Why are you sweating?
mitch		I...I just...I came back from helping Chris and there was this woman in my room.
jordan		A woman?
mitch		 A woman. I mean she was...blessed
jordan		Oh?
mitch		And she wanted to...How can I say this so as not to offend you?
jordan		Jump you?
mitch		Yeah. I hope you're not offended.
jordan		So what happened?
mitch		 She kissed me. Then she took off her clothes. Then I took off my clothes-she had to help me. I kept blacking out - then... it was unbelievable.
jordan		You made it with her?
mitch		No. That's what was unbelievable.
jordan		Sure.
mitch		It's true. I stopped her and told her I didn't want to.
jordan		Afraid?
mitch		No...I mean I really did want to ... but not with her.
carter		Let's go girls
bodie		What's that supposed to mean?
carter		It's just a f..f..figure of speech, Bodie. You guys coming to the exam or not?
chris		 I guess we should, seeing as he's gone to all the bother of having one and everything.
kent		You guys go ahead. I have to go to the bathroom.
chris		 Okay, Kent, but I don't think that's going to help your confidence, do you?
kent		 So, Mr. Funny Man, let's see how funny you think this is.
atherton		You will have exactly three hours. And remember, we believe in the honor system here, people.
kent		Good luck, buddy boy.
chris		Is it okay if I name my first child after you? Dipshit Kinsley has a nice ring to it.
atherton		 This is my class hour!
carmichael		 We're past the deadline. Don't you understand, Decker's dangerous. We need those plans.
atherton		 Here are my drawings for the optics in the sighting system.
carmichael		 Decker wants the laser by the end of the week.
atherton		 I'm doing all I can, damnit!
insert		The piece of paper. It says, "I aced this."
insert		A piece of paper which reads, "Ace the laser."
chris		 Okie-dokie, doc, a house doesn't have to fall on ole Chris Kinsley.
chris		 No!!!!
chris		Mitch?!
hopsfield		No. How did you do?
chris		 I failed!
hopsfield		You shouldn't have.
chris		That's true. But never mind that now. It came to me. The power problem. I solved it. Echoes! It's so simple, four little mirrors. It bounces back and supercharges the gas itself. I've got to find Mitch to help me build it but it should increase the power ten-fold at least. If you see him, tell him to meet me at the lab. Bye.
jordan		Oh, Chris. How did it go?
chris		Great. It was a snap. But Atherton said he's failing me anyway.
jordan		That's terrible. You must be feeling awful. Are you all right?
chris		Thank you, Jordan. I do feel terrible but I can't talk about it right now. I need Mitch. Gotta go. Bye.
chris		 Hiya, Jerry, how's it going?
atherton		What do you want Kinsley?
chris		World peace, but I don't think this is the time to discuss it.
atherton		What are you doing here? I've already told you you've burned out and you've failed me and yourself miserably.
chris		Yes, I know that. But I thought you might be interested.
atherton		I'm not interested in anything you have to say.
coed		Jerry?
chris		I solved the power problem, Jerry.
atherton		Debbie, go home.
chris		As you know, I was working on supercharging the DF by means of a fusion technique using a secondary laser. Well, when I tried it, I discovered Kent had sabotaged it so it collapsed on itself.
kent		What????
chris		The Deuterium and Fluorine take up enough space by themselves, right? Well, the mistake we've been making up to now is in trying to kick up the power by means of yet another outside source. Big and bulky, right? Well, the elegance of this is that by reflecting part of the lasing light back in the gas jets we supercharge the whole deal, increasing the power tenfold with no increase in size.
kent		This is a complete waste of time.
chris		Kent, make yourself useful for once and help put those plates against the wall.
mitch		Now we open the vacuum chamber.
chris		So far so good. And now, cross your fingers.
chris		Sorry about the wall, sir.
kent		 And the tree across the quad.
atherton		 Screw the wall, you did it! You really did it.
kent		 I've done my part, too.
atherton		 Okay, Kinsley. You did it. You pass.
chris		Thank you, sir.
atherton		And I think we can get that job back for you at PEI.
kent		 What! You can't. That's my job. I've done everything you've ever asked. I get your laundry, and I finished the mirror. Look.
kent		See! Do you have any idea how hard it is to make a film virtually 100 per cent reflective, one micron thick and apply it to a mirror this shape?
atherton		Good, Kent.  I have to go. I have a pressing...
mitch		 Let's celebrate.
chris		Absolutely. Kent, you with us?
kent		 Oh...eat me.
mitch		I don't think I'm ready for that yet. Maybe we should wait a year; at least until I get my license.
jordan		I understand. There are a lot of things to be considered here. For example, I could drive.
hopsfield		 I figure you've increased the output to six megawatts.
chris		Yeah.
hopsfield		What would you use that for?
mitch		The applications are unlimited. Industrial for one.
hopsfield		With the gas tanks you've designed the beam would only last for forty seconds. What good is that?
chris		I don't care, Laslo. I graduated.
mitch		Let the engineers figure out a use for it. That's not our concern.
hopsfield		Maybe somebody already has a use for it, one for which it's perfectly designed.
jordan		You mean Atherton had something in mind all along?
hopsfield		Looks at the facts: very high power, portable, limited firing time, unlimited range. All you'd need is a big spinning mirror and you could vaporize a human target from space.
chris		This is not good.
mitch		How big a mirror?
chris		The mirror is gone, too. Atherton, you worm! You pig! You fuck! Kent, you too!
mitch		He lied to us.
chris		It's easy to lie to you. You trust people! I'm cynic! What an asshole I am!
hopsfield		I understand how you feel, Chris, and you're right. But what we should be doing now is trying to find out what he's doing.
mitch		Did you do it?
jordan		I put a receiver in it too.  Is he okay?
mitch		I don't know he stopped talking about an hour ago. May I see it?
student		Hi, guys.
jordan		 Open his mouth.
mitch		 Kent. Kent. Wake up, Kent.
kent		What?
kent		 No!
kent		 I'm not asleep. I must be overworked.
kent		Well, I'm not insane!
mitch		That remains to be seen, Kent. But we are having a conversation.
kent		I have to metabolize this. Um... who is this?
kent		 All right! Who is this?! Bodie? Carter?
kent		Oh, Sure.
kent		How did you know that?
kent		Oh. God.
mitch		That's right, Kent. Where is the laser now?
kent		I can't tell you.
kent		 No, they're testing it on the twenty-seventh but I don't know where. It's classified.
kent		What?
kent		I don't...okay  INT. CHRIS AND MITCH'S ROOM
mitch		Now what?
hopsfield		Phase two.
hopsfield		This is the phone terminal for the entire school.
mitch		Okay, we tap Atherton's office phone. What about his home?
jordan		 Great, all we have to do is find it!
hopsfield		We'll find it.
hopsfield		It's not too late.
mitch		You shouldn't be depressed. It's us he used.
jordan		Downtown Schmidlap.
mitch		Excuse me?
jordan		 Ernie "Downtown" Schmidlap. From my high school. He was captain of everything. One day he told me he wanted to "date me up." so for a month he'd come over and I'd do his homework for him. He was going to take me to the prom. But once he passed his courses, he took Roberta Preen. I stayed home and re-wired our housekeeper's TV.
mitch		You think that hurts?  You should've met my Uncle Stan. He was a Weasel.
mitch		No, that was his lodge. The Royal order of Friendly Weasels.  Every Wednesday when I was eight, he'd take me down to his lodge meeting and he'd challenge people to call out two five-digit numbers. I had to multiply them in my head faster than a guy could do it on a calculator. They'd bet on me. Of course, after the meeting, he'd take me for ice cream.
mitch		Well...he'd take me to the supermarket and I had to dip my hand in.
hopsfield		I've got his office.
jordan		I've got his home.
chris		Why doesn't your phone ring, you jogging, syphilitic microbe?
chris		He does get away with it.
mitch		Not anymore.
mitch		Jordan?
jordan		Hmmmmmmmm.
mitch		You were sleeping.
jordan		I was? Gee  I guess you relax me.
mitch		 Wow!
chris		 What's going on?
mitch		I put Jordan to sleep.
chris		And you're proud of that?
mitch		Yeah.
chris		This is it. That's the guy I saw at his house with the daughter.
chris		 It's happening.
mitch		It's only weapon if it works, right?
chris		 You're absolutely right! The time has come, people. No more being used. No more Downtown Schmidlaps or Uncle Stans or Jerry Athertons. We're going to take responsibility for our own brains. Remember, without ethics there can be no morality. Without morality there is no society and without society there can be no fast food restaurants. So the whole country, nay, in the world, is counting on us to get even in a big way. Thank you.
chris		Thanks. Synchronize watches.
mitch		Why?
chris		It's just something you say at a time like this.
hopsfield		I don't need a watch.
chris		Okay, forget it. Let's go.
ick pov		Atherton's car is passing through a high security gate into Marsh field.
hopsfield		Boy, these secret fields are so untrusting.
chris		So we can't get on-base clearance.
hopsfield		I guess not.
chris		Forget it. We'll balls it.
jordan		How do these look?
insert		Two fake I. D.'s with Mitch's and Chris's picture on them. Perfect. I hope.
mitch		What if they don't fool anybody?
chris		They shoot us.
engineer		Are you all right?
atherton		What? Oh, yes, fine. Have you ever had a feeling that there's something terribly wrong?
engineer		No.
chris		 How long does it take?
guard		I.D.
chris		Snap it up, will ya? We just flew in. We're tired. We're hungry. We have this stupid car.
mitch		Are you out of your mind?
chris		You have to intimidate these guys.
guard		You're not on the list.
chris		Of course not. We're classified.
atherton		I don't know what he should look for, just tell him if he sees anything out of the...let me tell him.
guard		Aren't you guys a little young to be technicians?
chris		Lasers are a young science. There, fine, now you've made me say it. Now we're all in trouble.
guard		Look, I'll call the duty officer.
chris		 Excuse me.
second guard		We're supposed to look for anything out of the ordinary.
first guard		Okay.
chris		Nice work. Keep it up.
chris		What?!
hopsfield		We've got a connection.  They're in.
chris		Get the EEPROMs.
chris		 Abbott to Costello.
jordan		 This is Costello. Go ahead, Abbott.
chris		 Costello,  who's on first?
chris		Great. Shoot.
hopsfield		Oh, oh.
hopsfield		Oh, nothing.
atherton		The plane will reach an altitude of sixty-five thousand feet.  When it is over, the target will fire the laser from here ....  ... for five point two seconds.
carmichael		They're all set for the final onboard check.
atherton		Fine.  Right this way, gentlemen.
hopsfield		I think I've found it.  May I have the coordinates, please.
jordan		 We're sending.
chris		 We're taking.
mitch's pov		Atherton and his group come around the corner of a building and head for the plane.
mitch		They're coming this way.
chris		 You may be interested in knowing that Mitch reports that Herr Professor is approaching and I'm not even sweating.  Isn't that remarkable?
jordan		Please hurry.  Atherton's coming.
hopsfield		 Please, I don't work well under pressure.
jordan		 Okay, Chris  ... I mean Abbott.  Hello ... hello ... hello ...
carmichael		Everything all right?
atherton		Of course.
atherton		 Oh, I forgot ...
atherton's pov		A glimpse of Chris and Mitch as they disappear around the corner of the building.
atherton		Nothing.
kent		 Oh, I thought you were gone.
kent		Yes. I mean, no.
mitch		I've learned not to ask.
kent		Ivy Crest?
kent		Why not?  Hello?  Hello, Jesus?
meredith		Ah, Mr. Kinsley.  Why am I not surprised to see you here?  Perhaps you have the explanation for this so-called event I'm suppose to witness.
chris		Yes, sir, I do, but first may I take this opportunity to compliment you on  your fashion sense.
atherton		Norman, if you'd be so kind. This cockpit mock-up duplicates the shuttle flight deck and we've placed it here to demonstrate the firing technique.
meredith		These are rather strong accusations, Chris.
chris		Yes, sir, I know.
meredith		If they're true, I'm going to need some proof.
chris		I think we're going to be able to accommodate you in just a minute, sir.
specialist		Power on.
controller		T minus fifty and counting.
chris		 Boy, if this works, he's going to start a new religion.
mitch		If it doesn't work ...?
technician		Trajectory command relay, locked.
atherton		Now, Norm here has firing control.
jordan		What's he doing?
their pov		Kent has now started toward the front door.
mitch		I told him not to go in!
kent		 Look, this is Jerry's house, we're very close, so if you're not going to answer me, then I'm going in ...
chris		 Kent! Stop!
specialist		Target locked. In ten, nine, eight ...
kent		 That looked like Dr. Meredith in a bathrobe. First I'm hearing things, now I'm seeing things.
specialist		... three, two, one, bingo.
kent		 Oh!
kent		Popcorn?
carmichael		I don't understand. Did it fire?
technician		Yes, we indicate a shot.  We've got another problem, though.  It's not shutting down.
decker		Nice going, Jer.
atherton		Something's wrong here.  Unlock the bird's eye.
atherton		I'm tracing where the shot went.
decker		What have you done?
atherton		Retired.
chris		 Do you think we used too much?
mitch		Maybe a little.
chris		Well, I guess we all learned something here today.
jordan		What?
chris		I don't know, but it seemed like the right thing to say, didn't it?
hopsfield		I think  you used too much.
chris		Really? I'm sorry you missed it.
hopsfield		Yeah, well, I had to pack.
chris		Why?
hopsfield		I'm getting married.
chris		What? To whom?
hopsfield		Oh, I won. Only thirty-one point eight percent though. I have to figure that out. But not this summer.
mitch		Sherry?
hopsfield		What can I do?  She loves me.
chris		Right.  Congratulations.
hopsfield		Thanks.  Anyway, we probably won't ever get to see you again, so, bye.
chris		What do you mean?  Where are you going?
sherry		I've got a little survival place in Wyoming.  We're going to live there.
hopsfield		Yeah, it's getting too weird around here.  See ya.
chris		Absolutely.
jordan		I didn't notice.
mitch		I like it.
****Dialogues from script :Rear_Window.txt****

announcer		The time -- 7:15 A.M., WOR, New York. The temperature, outside, 84 -- Friends -- is your life worth one dollar?
gunnison		 Indo-China -- Jeff predicted it would go sky-high.
bryce		From the looks of Davidson's cable, it might even go higher than that. And we haven't even got a camera over there.
gunnison		 This could go off in a month -- or an hour.
bryce		I'll pull somebody out of Japan.
gunnison		 Get me L. B. Jefferies.
bryce		 Jefferies?
gunnison		 Name me a better photographer.
bryce		 But his leg!
gunnison		Don't worry -- it comes off today.
gunnison		I mean the cast. 
jeff		Jefferies.
gunnison		 Congratulations, Jeff.
jeff		For what?
gunnison		For getting rid of that cast.
jeff		Who said I was getting rid of it?
gunnison		 This is Wednesday.
jeff		Gunnison -- how did you get to be such a big editor -- with such a small memory?
gunnison		Wrong day?
jeff		Wrong week. Next Wednesday I emerge from this plaster cocoon.
gunnison		That's too bad, Jeff. Well, I guess I can't be lucky every day. Forget I called.
jeff		Yeah. I sure feel sorry for you, Gunnison. Must be rough on you thinking of me wearing this cast another whole week.
gunnison		That one week is going to cost me my best photographer -- and you a big assignment.
jeff		Where?
gunnison		There's no point in even talking about it.
jeff		 Where?
gunnison		 Indo-China. Got a code tip from the bureau chief this morning. The place is about to go up in smoke.
jeff		 Didn't I tell you! Didn't I tell you it was the next place to watch?
gunnison		You did.
jeff		 Okay. When do I leave? Half-hour? An hour?
gunnison		With that cast on -- you don't.
jeff		 Stop sounding stuffy. I'll take pictures from a jeep. From a water buffalo if necessary.
gunnison		You're too valuable to the magazine for us to play around with. I'll send Morgan or Lambert.
jeff		Swell. I get myself half-killed for you -- and you reward me by stealing my assignments.
gunnison		I didn't ask you to stand in the middle of that automobile race track.
jeff		 You asked for something dramatically different! You got it!
gunnison		 So did you. Goodbye, Jeff.
jeff		 You've got to get me out of here! Six weeks -- sitting in a two-room apartment with nothing to do but look out the window at the neighbors!
jeff		It's worse than the Chinese water torture.
gunnison		Read some good books.
jeff		I've been taking pictures so long I don't know how to read anymore.
gunnison		I'll send you some comic books.
jeff		 Listen -- if you don't pull me out of this swamp of boredom -- I'll do something drastic.
gunnison		Like what?
jeff		 I'll -- I'll get married. Then I'll never be able to go anywhere.
gunnison		It's about time you got married -- before you turn into a lonesome and bitter old man.
jeff		Can you see me -- rushing home to a hot apartment every night to listen to the automatic laundry, the electric dishwasher, the garbage disposal and a nagging wife.
gunnison		Jeff -- wives don't nag anymore -- they discuss.
jeff		Yeah? Maybe in the high rent districts they discuss -- but in my neighborhood, they still nag.
gunnison		Well -- you know best. Call you later, Jeff.
jeff		Next time, have some good news.
stella		 The New York State sentence for a peeping Tom is six months in the workhouse!
jeff		Hello Stella.
stella		And there aren't any windows in the workhouse.
stella		Years ago, they used to put out your eyes with a hot poker. Is one of those bikini bombshells you always watch worth a hot poker?
stella		We've grown to be a race of peeping Toms. What people should do is stand outside their own houses and look in once in a while.  What do you think of that for homespun philosophy?
stella		Well, I only quote from the best.
jeff		Now look, Stella --
stella		See it you can break a hundred.
stella		I shoulda been a Gypsy fortune teller, instead of an insurance company nurse. I got a nose for trouble -- can smell it ten miles away.  You heard of the stock market crash in '29?
stella		I predicted it.
jeff		 How?
stella		Simple. I was nursing a director of General Motors. Kidney ailment they said. Nerves, I said. Then I asked myself -- what's General Motors got to be nervous about?  Overproduction. Collapse, I answered. When General Motors has to go to the bathroom ten times a day -- the whole country's ready to let go.
jeff		Stella -- in economics, a kidney ailment has no relationship to the stock market. Absolutely none.
stella		It crashed, didn't it?
stella		I can smell trouble right in this apartment. You broke your leg. You look out the window. You see things you shouldn't. Trouble. I can see you now, in front of the judge, flanked by lawyers in blue double- breasted suits. You're pleading, "Judge, it was only innocent fun. I love my neighbors like a father." -- The Judge answers, "Congratulations. You just gave birth to three years in Dannemora."
jeff		Right now I'd even welcome trouble.
stella		 You've got a hormone deficiency.
jeff		How can you tell that from a thermometer!
stella		Those sultry sun-worshipers you watch haven't raised your temperature one degree in four weeks.
jeff		I think you're right. There is going to be some trouble around here.
stella		I knew it!
jeff		Don't you ever heat that stuff up.
stella		Gives your circulation something to fight.  What kind of trouble?
jeff		Lisa Fremont.
stella		You must be kidding. A beautiful young woman, and you a reasonably healthy specimen of manhood.
jeff		She expects me to marry her.
stella		That's normal.
jeff		I don't want to.
stella		 That's abnormal.
jeff		 I'm not ready for marriage.
stella		Nonsense. A man is always ready for marriage -- with the right girl. And Lisa Fremont is the right girl for any man with half a brain, who can get one eye open.
jeff		 She's all right.
stella		Behind every ridiculous statement is always hidden the true cause.  What is it? You have a fight?
jeff		No.
stella		 Her father loading up the shotgun?
jeff		Stella!
stella		It's happened before, you know! Some of the world's happiest marriage have started 'under the gun' you might say.
jeff		She's just not the girl for me.
stella		She's only perfect.
jeff		Too perfect. Too beautiful, too talented, too sophisticated, too everything -- but what I want.
stella		 Is what you want something you can discuss?
jeff		It's very simple. She belongs in that rarefied atmosphere of Park Avenue, expensive restaurants, and literary cocktail parties.
stella		People with sense can belong wherever they're put.
jeff		Can you see her tramping around the world with a camera bum who never has more than a week's salary in the bank?  If only she was ordinary.
stella		You're never going to marry?
jeff		Probably. But when I do, it'll be to someone who thinks of life as more than a new dress, a lobster dinner, and the latest scandal. I need a woman who'll go anywhere, do anything, and love it.
jeff		The only honest thing to do is call it off. Let her look for somebody else.
stella		I can just hear you now. "Get out of here you perfect, wonderful woman! You're too good for me!"
jeff		 That's the hard part.
stella		Look, Mr. Jefferies. I'm not educated. I'm not even sophisticated. But I can tell you this -- when a man and a woman see each other, and like each other -- they should come together -- wham like two taxies on Broadway. Not sit around studying each other like specimens in at bottle.
jeff		There's an intelligent way to approach marriage.
stella		 Intelligence! Nothing has caused the human race more trouble. Modern marriage!
jeff		We've progressed emotionally in --
stella		 Baloney! Once it was see somebody, get excited, get married -- Now, it's read books, fence with four syllable words, psychoanalyze each other until you can't tell a petting party from a civil service exam
jeff		People have different emotional levels that --
stella		 Ask for trouble and you get it. Why there's a good boy in my neighborhood who went with a nice girl across the street for three years. Then he refused to marry her. Why? -- Because she only scored sixty-one on a Look Magazine marriage quiz!
stella		When I married Myles, we were both maladjusted misfits. We still are. And we've loved every minute of it.
jeff		That's fine, Stella. Now would you make me a sandwich?
stella		Okay -- but I'm going to spread some common sense on the bread. Lisa Fremont's loaded to her fingertips with love for you. I'll give you two words of advice. Marry her.
jeff		 She pay you much?
stella		 Window shopper.
lisa		 How's your leg?
jeff		Mmmm -- hurts a little.
lisa		And your stomach?
jeff		Empty as a football.
lisa		And you love life?
jeff		Not too active.
lisa		Anything else bothering you?
jeff		Uh-huh.
lisa		 Lisa --
lisa		Carol --
lisa		Fremont.
jeff		The Lisa Fremont who never wears the same dress twice?
lisa		Only because it's expected of her.
lisa		Right off the Paris plane. Think it will sell?
jeff		Depends on the quote. Let's see -- there's the plane tickets over, import duties, hidden taxes, profit markups --
lisa		-- A steal at eleven hundred dollars.
jeff		 That dress should be listed on the stock exchange.
lisa		We sell a dozen a day in this price range.
jeff		Who buys them? Tax collectors?
lisa		Even if I had to pay, it would be worth it -- just for the occasion.
jeff		 Something big going on somewhere?
lisa		 Going on right here. It's a big night.
jeff		 It's just a run-of-the-mill Monday. The calendar's loaded with them.
lisa		It's opening night of the last depressing week of L. B. Jefferies in a cast.
jeff		 Hasn't been any big demand for tickets.
lisa		 That's because I bought out the house. This cigarette box has seen better days.
jeff		Picked it up in Shanghai -- which has also seen better days.
lisa		It's cracked -- and you never use it. And it's too ornate. I'm sending up a plain, flat silver one -- with just your initials engraved.
jeff		Now that's no way to spend your hard- earned money!
lisa		I wanted to, Jeff.  Oh!
lisa		What would you think of starting off with dinner at the "21"?
jeff		You have, perhaps, an ambulance outside?
lisa		Thank you for waiting Carl.
lisa		Kitchen's on the left. I'll take the wine.
carl		Good evening, Mr Jefferies.
jeff		Hello.
lisa		 Just put everything right in the oven Carl. On "low."
carl		 Yes ma'am.
lisa		 Let's open the wine now. It's a Montrachet.
jeff		 A big glassful.
lisa		Big enough?
jeff		Fine. Corkscrew's on the right.
lisa		I couldn't think of anything more boring and tiresome than what you've been through. And the last week must be the hardest.
jeff		Yeah -- I want to get this thing off and get moving.
lisa		 Well, I'm going to make this a week you'll never forget.
carl		Let me, madam.
lisa		This will take care of the taxi as well.
carl		Thank you, Miss Fremont.
carl		Have a pleasant dinner, Mr. Jefferies.
jeff		Thank you.
lisa		What a day I've had!
jeff		Tired?
lisa		Not a bit. I was all morning in a sales meeting. Then over to the Waldorf for a quick drink with Madame Dufresne -- just over from Paris. With some spy reports. Back to the "21" for lunch with the Harper's Bazaar people -- that's when I ordered dinner. Then two Fall showings -- twenty blocks apart. Then I had to have a cocktail with Leland and Slim Hayward -- we're trying to get his next show.  Then I had to dash back and change.
jeff		 Tell me -- what was Slim Hayward wearing?
lisa		 She looked very cool. She had on a mint green --
lisa		And to think, I planted three nice items about you in the columns today.
lisa		You can't buy that kind of publicity.
jeff		That's good news.
lisa		Someday you might want to open up your own studio here.
jeff		How could I run it from say -- Pakistan?
lisa		Jeff -- isn't it time you came home? You could pick your assignment.
jeff		I wish there was one I wanted.
lisa		Make the one you want.
jeff		 You mean leave the magazine?
lisa		Yes.
jeff		For what?
lisa		For yourself -- and me.  I could get you a dozen assignments tomorrow... fashion, portraits --
lisa		 Don't laugh. -- I could do it!
jeff		That's what I'm afraid of. 
lisa		I could see you looking handsome and successful in a dark blue flannel suit.
jeff		 Let's not talk any more nonsense, huh?
lisa		I'd better start setting up for dinner.
lisa		That's what is know as "manless melancholia."
jeff		 Miss Lonely Hearts. At least that's something you'll never have to worry about.
lisa		Oh? You can see my apartment all the way up on 63rd street?
jeff		Not exactly -- but we have a little apartment here that's probably about as popular as yours.  You, of course, remember Miss Torso.
jeff		Well, she picked the most prosperous looking one.
lisa		She's not in love with him -- or any of them.
jeff		How can you tell that -- from here?
lisa		You said it resembled my apartment, didn't you?
lisa		 Where's that music coming from?
jeff		Oh... some songwriter. In the studio apartment. Lives alone. Probably had an unhappy marriage.
lisa		 I think it's enchanting.
lisa		Almost as if it were being written especially for us.
jeff		 No wonder he's having so much trouble with it.
lisa		Well, at least you can't say the dinner isn't right.
jeff		Lisa, it's perfect  As always.
lisa		There can't be that much difference between people and the way they live! We all eat, talk, drink, laugh, sleep, wear clothes --
jeff		Well now, look --
lisa		If you're saying all this just because you don't want to tell me the truth, because you're hiding something from me, then maybe I can understand --
jeff		There's nothing I'm hiding. It's just that --
lisa		 It doesn't make sense to me. What's so different about it here from over there, or any place you go, that one person couldn't live in both places just as easily?
jeff		Some people can. Now if you'll let me explain --
lisa		 What is it but traveling from one place to another, taking pictures? It's just like being a tourist on an endless vacation.
jeff		All right. That's your opinion. You're entitled to it, but --
lisa		It's ridiculous for you to say that it can only be done by a special, private little group of anointed people.
jeff		I made a simple, but true statement and I'll back it up, if you'll just shut up for a minute!
lisa		If your opinion is as rude as your manner, I'm not sure I want to hear it.
jeff		 Lisa, simmer down -- will you?
lisa		 You can't fit in here -- I can't fit in there. According to you, people should be born, live an die on the same --
jeff		 Lisa! Shut up!
jeff		Did you ever eat fish heads and rice?
lisa		Of course not.
jeff		You might have to, if you went with me. Ever try to keep warm in a C-54, at fifteen thousand feet, at twenty below zero?
lisa		Oh, I do that all the time. Whenever I have a few minutes after lunch.
jeff		Ever get shot at, run over, sandbagged at night because people got unfavorable publicity from your camera?
jeff		Those high heels would be a lot of use in the jungle -- and those nylons and six-ounce lingerie --
lisa		 Three.
jeff		Well, they'd be very stylish in Finland -- just before you froze to death. Begin to get the idea?
lisa		If there's one thing I know, it's how to wear the proper clothes.
jeff		Huh? Try and find a raincoat in Brazil. Even when it isn't raining  Lisa, on this job you carry one suitcase. Your home is the available transportation. You sleep rarely, bathe even less, and sometime the food you even look at when they were alive!
lisa		Jeff, you don't have to be deliberately repulsive just to impress me I'm wrong.
jeff		If anything, I'm making it sound good.  Let's face it, Lisa... you aren't made for that kind of a life. Few people are.
lisa		You're too stubborn to argue with.
jeff		I'm not stubborn! I'm truthful!
lisa		I know. A lesser man would have told me it was one long holiday -- and I would have awakened to a rude disillusionment.
jeff		Now if you want to get vicious, I'd be very happy to accommodate you!
lisa		 So that's it. You won't stay here -- I can't go with you.
jeff		It would be the wrong thing.
lisa		You don't think either one of us could ever change?
jeff		Right now, it doesn't seem so.
lisa		 I'm in love with you. I don't care what you do for a living. Somehow I would just like to be part of it.
lisa		And it's deflating to find out that the only way I can be part of it -- is to take out a subscription to your magazine. I guess I'm not the girl I thought I was.
jeff		There's nothing wrong with you, Lisa. You have the town in the palm of your hand.
lisa		 Goodbye, Jeff.
jeff		You mean "goodnight."
lisa		I mean what I said.
jeff		Lisa!
jeff		Can't we just sort of keep things status quo?
lisa		Without any future?
jeff		Well -- when'll I see you again?
lisa		Not for a long time. Not, at least until --  -- tomorrow night.
gunnison		 Hello.
jeff		Gunnison?
gunnison		Yeah. Is that you, Jeff?
jeff		It's me.
gunnison		Something wrong?
jeff		The word is "everything." Now what time does my plane leave Tuesday?
gunnison		 Jeff --
jeff		 I don't care where it goes -- just as long as I'm on it.
gunnison		 Okay. Indo-China. Tuesday. We'll pick you up.
jeff		That's more like it. Goodnight, old buddy.
gunnison		Yeah.
stella		You'd think the rain would have cooled things off. All it did was make the heat wet.
jeff		That's a stiff one.
stella		The insurance Company would be a lot happier if you slept in your bed, not the wheelchair.
jeff		 How did you know!
stella		Eyes bloodshot. Must have been staring out the window for hours.
jeff		I was.
stella		 What'll you do if one of them catches you?
jeff		Depends one which one.
jeff		Now Miss Torso, for example --
stella		Keep your mind off her.
jeff		She's real eat, drink and be merry girl.
stella		And she'll end up fat, alcoholic and miserable.
jeff		Speaking of misery, Miss Lonely Hearts drank herself to sleep again. Alone.
stella		Poor girl. Someday she'll find her happiness.
jeff		And some man will lose his.
stella		Isn't there anyone in the neighborhood who might cast an eye in her direction?
jeff		Well, the salesman could be available soon.
stella		 He and his wife splitting up?
jeff		It's hard to figure. He went out several time last night, in the rain carrying his sample case.
stella		 Isn't he a salesman?
jeff		Now what could he sell at three in the morning?
stella		 Flashlights. Luminous dials for watches. House numbers that light up.
jeff		He was taking something out of the apartment. I'm certain.
stella		His personal effects. He's probably running away -- the coward.
jeff		Sometimes it's worse to stay than it is to run.
stella		 But it takes a particularly low type of man to do it.
stella		 What about this morning? Any developments?
jeff		No. The shades are still drawn in their apartment.
stella		 They're up now.
jeff		Get back! Out of sight! Quick!
stella		 What is it? What's the matter?
jeff		 The salesman's looking out his window.
stella		A Federal offense.
jeff		 Get back there! He'll see you!
stella		I'm not shy. I've been looked at before.
jeff		 It's not an ordinary look. It's the kind of look a man gives when he's afraid somebody might be watching him.
stella		Goodbye, Mr. Jefferies. I'll see you tomorrow.
jeff		 Uh-huh.
stella		And don't sleep in the chair again.
jeff		Uh-huh.
stella		Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Great conversationalist.
jeff		Stella.
jeff		 Will you take those binoculars out of the case and bring them to me.
stella		Trouble. I cam smell it. I'll be glad when they crack that cast, and I get out of here.
lisa		How far does a girl have to go -- before you notice her?
jeff		If she's pretty enough, she doesn't have to go anywhere. She just has to "be".
lisa		Well, "ain't I?" -- Pay attention to me.
jeff		I'm not exactly on the other side of the room.
lisa		Your mind is. And when I want a man, I want all of him.
jeff		Don't you ever have any problems?
lisa		 I have one now.
jeff		So do I.
lisa		 Tell me about it.
jeff		 Why would a man leave his apartment three times, on a rainy night, with a suitcase? And come back three times?
lisa		He likes the way his wife welcomes him home.
jeff		Not that salesman's wife. And why didn't he go to work today?
lisa		Homework. It's more interesting.
jeff		What's interesting about a butcher's knife and a small saw wrapped up in a newspaper?
lisa		Nothing, thank heaven.
jeff		 Why hasn't he gone into his wife's bedroom all day?
lisa		I wouldn't dare answer that.
jeff		 Lisa -- there's something terribly wrong.
lisa		And I'm afraid it's with me.
jeff		 What do you think?
lisa		 Something too frightful to utter.
jeff		He went out a few minutes ago -- in his undershirt -- and he hasn't come back yet.
jeff		You know -- that would be terrible job to tackle.
jeff		How would you begin to cut up a human body?
lisa		Jeff -- I'll be honest with you -- you're beginning to scare me a little.
lisa		 Jeff -- did you hear what I said? You're beginning to --
jeff		 He's coming back!
lisa		 Jeff -- if you could only see yourself.
jeff		Now, Lisa --
lisa		 -- with, with binoculars, and with wild opinions about every little movement you see -- is, is diseased!
jeff		Do you think I consider this recreation?
lisa		I don't know what you consider it -- but if you don't stop it, I'm getting out of here.
jeff		You'd better before you catch the disease!
lisa		 What is it you're looking for?
jeff		I want to find out what's wrong with the salesman's wife. Does that make me sound like a madman?
lisa		What makes you think something's wrong with her?
lisa		A lot of things. She's an invalid who needs constant care -- and yet the husband nor anyone else has been in there all day.
lisa		Maybe she died.
jeff		Where's the doctor -- the undertakers?
lisa		She could be under sedatives, sleeping.  He's in the room now.
jeff		Lisa, please!
lisa		There's nothing to see.
jeff		There is -- I've seen things through that window! Bickering, family fights, mysterious trips at night, knives, saws, rope -- and since last evening, not a sight or sound of his wife! Now you tell me where she is and what she's doing!
lisa		Maybe he's leaving his wife. I don't know, and I don't care. Lots of people have saws, knives and ropes around their houses. Lots of men don't speak to their wives all day. Lots of wives nag, and men hate them, and trouble starts -- but very, very, very few of them end up in murder -- if that's what you're thinking.
jeff		It's pretty hard to stay away from that word isn't is?
lisa		You could see all the things he did, couldn't you?
jeff		What are you getting at?
lisa		You could see that he did because he had the shades in his apartment up, and walked along the corridor, and the streets and the backyard?
jeff		Yeah.
lisa		Jeff, do you think a murderer would let you see all that? That he shouldn't keep his shades down and hide behind them?
jeff		That's where he's being clever. Acting nonchalant.
lisa		And that's where you're not being clever. He wouldn't parade his crime in front of the open shades.
lisa		 For all you know -- there's something a lot more sinister going on behind those shades.
jeff		No comment.
lisa		Don't you see how silly you're being?
jeff		Okay, Lisa -- probably you're right. He's probably in the bedroom now, entertaining his wife with the indian rope trick. I'll admit to criminal insanity. Now when do I start the cure?
lisa		Let's start from the beginning again, Jeff. Tell me everything you saw -- and what you think it means.
jeff		Yeah?
lisa		The name on the second floor rear mailbox reads Mr. And Mrs. Lars, that's L-A-R-S, Lars Thorwald.
jeff		 What's the apartment house number?
lisa		125 West Ninth Street.
jeff		Thanks, Lisa.
lisa		Okay, chief. What's my next assignment.
jeff		To get on home.
lisa		All right -- but what's he doing now?
jeff		Just sitting in the living room. In the dark. And he hasn't gone near the bedroom. Now get some sleep. Goodnight.
jeff		Look, Doyle -- it's just one of those things I can't tell you on the phone. You have to be here, and see the whole set-up.
jeff		It's probably nothing important -- just a little neighborhood murder, that's all. As a matter of fact, I did say "murder".
jeff		My only thought was to throw a little business your way. A good detective, I reasoned, would jump at the chance to detect.
jeff		Well, I usually took my best pictures on my day off.  Okay, Doyle -- soon as you can.
jeff		Stella, I -- I can't tell you what a welcome sight this is. No wonder your husband's still in love with you.
stella		Police?
jeff		 Huh?
stella		You called the police?
jeff		Oh. Well, yes and no. It wasn't an official call. He's just a friend.  An old, ornery friend.
stella		 Now just where do you suppose he cut her up?
stella		 Oh -- of course! In the bathtub. That's the only place he could wash away the blood.
stella's voice		He'd better get that trunk out of there before is starts to leak.
girl's voice		H-a-a-r-r-e-e...
stella's voice		Look! Look -- Mr. Jefferies!
jeff		 Now we're going to lose it.
jeff		Stella, don't do anything reckless!
stella		I'm just going to get the name of their truck!
jeff		 I'll watch the alleyway -- in case it goes that way.
jeff		Long Distance.
doyle		You didn't see the killing, or the body? How do you know there was a murder?
jeff		Because everything that man's done has been suspicious. Trips at night in the rain, saws, knives, trunks with rope, and a wife that isn't there any more.
doyle		I'll admit it all has a mysterious sound -- but is could mean a number of different things. Murder is the least likely.
jeff		Go ahead, Doyle -- tell me he's an unemployed magician -- amusing the neighborhood with sleight-of-hand.
doyle		It's too stupid and obvious a way to murder -- in full view of fifty windows -- and then sit over there --  -- smoking a cigar -- waiting for the police to pick him up.
jeff		Well, officer -- do your duty.
doyle		You've got a lot to lean about homicide, Jeff. Morons have committed murder so shrewdly that it took a hundred trained police minds to catch them. That salesman wouldn't just knock off his wife after dinner, toss her in a trunk and put her in storage.
jeff		I'll bet it's been done.
doyle		Almost everything's been done -- under panic. But this is a thousand to one shot. That man's still sitting around his apartment; he isn't panicked.
jeff		 You think I made all this up?
doyle		I think you saw something -- that probably has a very simple explanation.
jeff		For instance?
doyle		 His wife took a trip.
jeff		She -- was -- an -- invalid!
doyle		You told me.  I've got to run, Jeff.
jeff		All right -- you don't believe me.
doyle		I -- uh -- won't report it to the Department. Let me poke into a little on my own. No point in you getting any ridiculous publicity.
jeff		 Thanks.
doyle		We know the wife is gone. I'll see if I can find out where.
jeff		Do that.
doyle		You have any headaches lately?
jeff		Not 'til you showed up.
doyle		Uh-huh. Well, it'll wear off in time -- along with the hallucinations. See you around.
doyle		By the way  what happened to your leg?
jeff		I was jaywalking.
jeff		 The Indianapolis Speedway.
doyle		During the race?
jeff		Yup. It sure stopped traffic.
doyle		He has a six months lease, and has used up a little over five and a half months of it.  Quiet. Drinks, but not to drunkenness. Pays his bill promptly, with money earned as a consume jewelry salesman -- wholesale. Keeps to himself, and none of the neighbors got close to him, or his wife.
jeff		I think they missed their chance with her.
doyle		 She never left the apartment --
jeff		 Then where is she -- in the ice box?
doyle		 -- until yesterday morning.
jeff		 What time?
doyle		Six ayem.
jeff		I think that's about the time I fell asleep.
doyle		Too bad. The Thorwalds were just leaving the apartment house at that time.
doyle		Feel a little foolish?
jeff		Not yet.
jeff		How's your wife?
doyle		Oh -- oh, she's fine.  Just fine.
jeff		Who said they left then?
doyle		Who left -- where?
jeff		The Thorwalds -- at six in the morning?
doyle		The building superintendent, and two tenants. Flat statements -- no hesitation. And they all jibed to the letter. The Thorwalds were leaving for the railroad station.
jeff		Now how could anybody guess that? They had, perhaps, signs on their luggage, "Grand Central Or Bust!"?
doyle		 The superintendent met Thorwald coming back. He said Thorwald told him he had just put his wife on the train for the country.
jeff		A very convenient guy -- this superintendent. Have you checked his bank deposits lately?
doyle		Jeff -- huh?
jeff		 Well -- what good is his information?!! It's a second-hand version of an unsupported statement by the murderer himself -- Thorwald! Anybody actually see the wife get on the train?
doyle		I hate to remind you -- but this all started because you said she was murdered. Now did anyone, including you, actually see her murdered?
jeff		Doyle -- are you interested in solving a case, or making me look foolish?
doyle		If possible -- both.
jeff		Well then do a good job of it! Get over there, and search Thorwald's apartment! It must be knee-deep in evidence.
doyle		I can't do that.
jeff		I mean when he goes out for a paper, or a drink, or something. What he doesn't know won't hurt him.
doyle		I can't do it even if he's gone.
jeff		 What's the matter? Does he have a courtesy card from the police department?
doyle		Now don't get me mad! Even a detective can't walk in anybody's apartment and search it. If I were ever caught in there, I'd lose my badge inside of ten minutes!
jeff		Just make sure you're not caught. If you find something, you've got a murderer and nobody will care about a couple of house rules. If you find nothing -- he's clear.
doyle		At the risk of sounding stuffy, Jeff -- I'll remind you of the Constitution, and the phrase "search warrant" issued by a judge who knows the Bill of Rights verbatim. He must ask for evidence.
jeff		Give him evidence.
doyle		I can hear myself starting out. "Your Honor -- I have a friend who's an amateur sleuth, an one night, after a heavy supper --"  He'd throw the New York State Penal Code right in my face. -- And it's six volumes.
jeff		By morning there might not be anything left to find in his apartment.
doyle		 A detective's nightmare.
jeff		What do you need before you can search -- bloody footsteps leading up to the door?
doyle		 One thing I don't need is heckling! You called and asked me for help -- and now you're acting like a taxpayer!
doyle		 How did we ever stand each other in that same plane for three years?
jeff		You know, every day for three years I asked myself that same question?
doyle		Ever get an answer?
jeff		Yeah -- frequently -- it ran something like this: "Your request for transfer turned down --"
doyle		Sorry I had to turn it down.  I'm going over to the railroad station and check Thorwald's story.
jeff		Forget the story -- find the trunk. Mrs. Thorwald's in it!
doyle		Oh -- I almost forgot!
doyle		 The message read "Arrived O.K. Already feeling better. Love, Anna."
jeff		 Is -- is Anna -- who I think it is?
doyle		 Mrs. Thorwald.
doyle		 Anything you need?
jeff		Yeah. A good detective.
jeff		Mrs. Doyle?
jeff		Jeff again.  Has Tom come in yet?
jeff		You haven't even heard from him?
jeff		I'm afraid it is, Tess.
jeff		Tell him not to waste time calling. To get over here soon as he can. I think Thorwald's pulling out tonight.
jeff		He knows.  Don't worry, Tess. It's a man.
jeff		 Goodnight, Mrs Doyle.
jeff		Long distance again.
jeff		Quick. Take a look. Thorwald's getting ready to pull out for good!
lisa		It doesn't seem to be in any hurry.
jeff		 He was just laying all his things out on one of the beds! Coats, suits, shirts, sox, even his wife's --
jeff		That alligator bag his wife had on the bedpost --
lisa		What about it?
jeff		He had it hidden in the dresser! Well, at least it was in there. He took it out, went to the phone and called somebody long distance. -- His wife's jewelry was in the handbag. And something about it worried him. He was asking somebody advice over the phone.
lisa		Someone not his wife?
jeff		I never saw him ask her for advise before.  But she volunteered plenty.
lisa		I wonder where he's going now?
jeff		I don't know.
lisa		Suppose he doesn't come back again?
jeff		He will. All his things are still piled on the bed.
lisa		Well, I guess it's safe to put on some lights now.
jeff		 Not yet!
jeff		He must have gone somewhere to the right.
lisa		All day long I've tried to keep my mind on work.
jeff		Thinking about Thorwald?
lisa		 Did you hear from him again -- since he left?
jeff		Not a word. He was going to check on the railroad station, and the trunk. He must be still on it.
jeff		Something on your mind, Lisa?
lisa		It doesn't make sense to me.
jeff		What doesn't?
lisa		Women aren't that unpredictable.
jeff		 Lisa -- I can't guess what you're thinking.
lisa		A woman has a favorite handbag -- it always hangs on her bedpost where she can get at it. Then she takes a trip and leaves it behind. Why?
jeff		Because she didn't know she was going on a trip -- and where she was going she wouldn't need a handbag.
lisa		But only her husband would know that.  And the jewelry! Women don't keep all their jewelry in a purse, all tangled, getting scratched and twisted up.
jeff		Do they hide it in their husband's clothes?
lisa		They do not! And they don't leave it behind them. A woman going anywhere but the hospital would always take makeup, perfume and jewelry.
jeff		Inside stuff?
lisa		Basic equipment. You don't leave it behind in your husband's drawer in your favorite handbag.
jeff		I'm with you, sweetie, but Detective Thomas J. Doyle has a pat answer for that.
lisa		That Mrs. Thorwald left at six ayem yesterday with her husband?
jeff		That's what the witnesses told him.
lisa		Well, I have a pat rebuttal for Mr. Doyle -- that couldn't be Mrs. Thorwald -- or I don't know women.
jeff		Still -- those witnesses.
lisa		We'll agree they saw a woman -- but she wasn't Mrs. Thorwald. -- That is, yet.
jeff		Come here.
lisa		I'd like to see your friend's face when we tell him. He doesn't sound like much of a detective.
jeff		Don't be too hard on him. He's a steady worker. I wish he'd get there, though.
lisa		 Don't rush me. We have all night.
jeff		We have all -- what?
lisa		Night. I'm going to stay with you.
jeff		You'll have to clear that through my landlord --
lisa		I have the whole weekend off.
jeff		Well that's fine, but I only have one bed, and --
lisa		Say anything else, and I'll stay tomorrow night too.
jeff		Lisa, I won't be able to give you any --
jeff		-- pajamas.
lisa		You said I'd have to live out of one suitcase  I'll bet yours isn't this small?
jeff		That's a suitcase?
lisa		 A Mark Cross overnight case, anyway. Compact, but ample enough.
lisa		I'll trade you -- my feminine intuition for a bed for the night.
jeff		 I'd be no better than Thorwald, to refuse.
lisa		There's that song again.
lisa		Where does a man get the inspiration for a song like that?
jeff		From his landlord -- once a month.
lisa		It's utterly beautiful.  I wish I could be creative.
jeff		You are. You have a talent for creating difficult situations.
lisa		 I do?
jeff		Staying the night here, uninvited.
lisa		Surprise -- is the most important element of attack.  And beside, you're not up on your private eye literature. When they're in trouble, it's always their Girl Friday who gets them out of it.
jeff		The same girl who keeps him out of the clutches of seductive show girls, and over-passionate daughters of the rich.
lisa		The same.
jeff		But he never ends up marrying her. Strange.
lisa		 Why don't I slip into something comfortable?
jeff		You mean -- like the kitchen? And make us some coffee?
lisa		Exactly what I had in mind -- along with some brandy.
girl's voice		H-a-a-r-r-e-e-!
doyle		What else do you have on this man Thorwald?
jeff		Enough to scare me that you wouldn't get here in time, and we'd lose him.
doyle		 You think he's getting out of here?
jeff		Everything he owns is laid out on the bedroom, ready for packing.
lisa		I'm just warming some brandy.
lisa		Mr. Doyle? -- I presume.
jeff		Tom, this is Miss Lisa Fremont.
doyle		How do you do?
lisa		We think Thorwald's guilty.
jeff		 Careful, Tom.
jeff		Hallo?
jeff		Just a minute, please.
doyle		Doyle speaking.  Uh-huh. -- Yeah. Mummmm -- Mmm. Hmm -- Okay. Thank you, and goodbye.
lisa		The coffee will be ready soon.  Jeff, aren't you going to tell him about the jewelry?
doyle		Jewelry?
jeff		He has his wife's jewelry hidden in among his clothes over there.
doyle		You sure it belongs to his wife?
lisa		It was in her favorite handbag -- And, Mr. Doyle, that can lead to only one conclusion.
doyle		Namely?
jeff		That wasn't Mrs. Thorwald who left with him yesterday morning?
doyle		You figured that out, huh?
lisa		It's just that women don't leave jewelry behind when they go on a trip.
jeff		Come on, Tom -- you don't really need any of this information, do you?
doyle		As a matter of fact, I don't.
doyle		Lars Thorwald is no more a murderer than I am.
jeff		You mean you can explain everything that went on over there -- and is still going on?
doyle		No!
doyle		And neither can you.  That's a secret and private world you're looking into out there. People do a lot at things in private that they couldn't explain in public.
lisa		Like disposing of their wives?
doyle		 Get that idea out of your mind. It will only lead you in the wrong direction.
jeff		But Tom -- the saw, the knives --
doyle		Did you ever own a saw?
jeff		 Well, in the garage, back home, we --
doyle		 And how many people did you cut up with the couple of with it? Or hundred knives you've probably owned in your lifetime?
jeff		But I'm not a killer!
doyle		 Your logic is backward.
lisa		You can't ignore the wife disappearing! And the trunk -- and the jewelry -- !
doyle		I checked the railroad station. He bought a ticket. He put her on the train ten minutes later. Destination: Merritsville. Witnesses. This deep. 
lisa		It might have been a woman -- but it couldn't have been Mrs. Thorwald. That jewelry --
doyle		Look, Miss Fremont. That feminine intuition sells magazines -- but in real life, it's still a fairy tale. I don't know how many wasted years I've spent running down leads based on women's intuitions.
jeff		I take it you didn't find the trunk -- And this is just an old speech you once gave at the Policeman's Ball.
doyle		I found the trunk -- a half hour after I left here.
lisa		Of course, it's normal for a man to tie his trunk up with a heavy rope.
doyle		 When the lock is broken -- yes.
jeff		What was in the trunk? A surly note to me?
doyle		 Mrs. -- Thorwald's -- clothes. -- Clean -- carefully packed -- not too stylish -- but presentable.
lisa		 Didn't you take it to the crime lab?
doyle		I sent it on its merry and legal way.
jeff		Why -- when a woman only goes on a simple trip, does she take everything she owns?
doyle		Let the female psychology department handle that one.
lisa		I would say that is looked as if she wasn't coming back.
doyle		 That's what they call a family problem.
jeff		 If his wife wasn't coming back -- why didn't he tell his landlord? -- I'll answer it for you -- because he had something to hide.
doyle		 Do -- uh -- you tell your landlord everything?
jeff		I told you to be careful.
doyle		If I'd been careful piloting that reconnaissance plane, you wouldn't have taken the kind of pictures that got you a medal, a big job, fame, money --
jeff		 All the things I hate.
doyle		Now -- what do you say we sit down to a quiet, friendly drink or two -- forget all about this, and tell lies about the old days in the war? Hmmm? He looks from one to the other.
lisa		You're through with the case?
doyle		There isn't any "case" to be through with, Miss Fremont. Now let's get down to that friendly drink.
doyle		Maybe you're right. I guess I'd better get home and get some sleep.
doyle		I'm not much of a snifter.
doyle		If you need any more help, Jeff -- consult the yellow pages of your telephone directory.
lisa		I hate funny exit lines.
jeff		Who was the trunk addressed to?
doyle		Mrs. Anna Thorwald.
jeff		Let's wait and see who picks it up.
doyle		Oh -- that phone call!  I gave them your number -- hope you don't mind.
jeff		 That depends on who "they" were.
doyle		 The police Department at Merritsville. They called to report. The trunk was just picked up -- by Mrs. Anna Thorwald.
doyle		Don't stay up too late.
lisa		Look.
jeff		As much as I hate to give Thomas J. Doyle too much credit, he might have gotten a hold of something when he said this was pretty private stuff going on out there.
jeff		Do you suppose it's ethical to watch a man with binoculars, and a long- focus lens -- until you can see the freckles on the back of his neck, and almost read his mail -- do you suppose it's ethical even if you prove he didn't commit a crime?
lisa		I'm not much on rear window ethics.
jeff		Of course, they have the same chance. They can look at me like a bug under glass, if they want to.
lisa		 Jeff -- if anybody walked in here, I don't think they'd believe what they see.
jeff		Huh?
lisa		You and me with long faces -- plunged into despair -- because we find out that a man didn't kill his wife. We're two of the most frightening ghouls I've ever known.
lisa		You'd think we could be a little bit happy that the poor woman is alive and well.
lisa		Whatever happened to that old saying "Love Thy Neighbor."
jeff		I think I'll start reviving it tomorrow, with say -- Miss Torso for a start?
lisa		 Show's over for tonight.
lisa		Preview -- of the coming attractions.
lisa		Did Mr. Doyle think I stole this case.
jeff		 No, Lisa -- I don't think he did.
lisa		 What do you think?
lisa		I'll rephrase the question.
jeff		Thank you.
lisa		Do you like it?
jeff		 -- I might give up bachelorhood.
lisa		I'll be right back.
lonely hearts		 It's dead! It's been strangled and the neck is broken!
siffleuse		Which one of you did it?  Even see. But I couldn't imagine any Even of you being so low that you'd kill a little helpless, friendly dog! The only thing in this whole neighborhood who liked anybody!
siffleuse		Did you kill him because he liked you? Just because he liked you?
jeff		For a minute, Doyle almost had me convinced I was wrong.
lisa		But you're not?
jeff		In the whole courtyard, only one person didn't come to the window. 
lisa		Why would Thorwald want to kill a dog?  Because it knew too much?
jeff		Do you think this was worth waiting all day to see?
lisa		Is he cleaning house?
jeff		He's washing down the bathroom walls.
stella		Must have splattered a lot.
stella		Well, why not? That's what we're all thinking. He killed her in there, and he has to wipe up the stains before he leaves.
lisa		Stella, your choice of words --
stella		Nobody's invented polite words yet for killing.
jeff		Lisa -- Lisa -- on the shelf over there -- get me the small yellow box --
jeff		And that little viewer.
jeff		 I think this is the one.
lisa		Jeff -- what are you looking for?
jeff		Something -- that if I'm right -- might solve a murder.
stella		Mrs. Thorwald?
jeff		Uh-uh. The dog. I think I know now why Thorwald killed it.
jeff		You take a look and tell me what you see.
jeff		 Now take it away.
jeff		Well?
lisa		It's just a picture of the backyard, that's all.
jeff		I know. But there's one important change. The flowers in Thorwald's pet flower bed.
stella		You mean the one the dog was sniffing around?
jeff		 Look at that flower bed.
jeff		There's a dip at this end. And since when do flowers grow shorter in two weeks?
stella		There's something buried there.
lisa		 Mrs. Thorwald!
stella		You haven't spent much time in cemeteries, have you?  Mr. Thorwald could hardly put his wife into a plot of ground scarcely one foot square.
stella		Unless, he puts in standing on end -- which would be very original and not require the use of either a knife or a saw. My guess is she's scattered all over town. A leg in the East River -- an arm --
lisa		 Stella, please.
jeff		Something's in there. Those flowers have been taken up, and put back again.
lisa		 It could be -- the knife, and the saw.
stella		 Call Lieutenant Doyle!
lisa		No -- let's wait. Let's wait until it gets dark. I'll go over and dig it up!
jeff		 And you're not going to dig up anything, an get your neck broken too.
jeff		What we've got to do is find some way to get in there, and --
stella		He's starting to pack.
stella		What are you going back for?
jeff		You did it, Thorwald! You did it!
jeff		Lisa! Look out! He's coming!
stella		 You shouldn't have let her do that! If he ever --
jeff		 Look!
stella		Thank heaven that's over!
jeff		I have a feeling we've just begun.
jeff		No doubt of it. He's leaving. The question is -- when?
stella		Mind if I use the portable keyhole?
jeff		Not as long as you tell me what you're looking at.
stella		I wonder.
jeff		What?
stella		Miss Lonely Hearts just laid out something that looks like sodium trieckonal capsules.
jeff		You can tell that from here?
stella		I handled enough of those red pills to put everybody in New Jersey asleep for the winter.
jeff		Would four of them -- ?
stella		 No -- but it makes the rest easy to take. And she's reading the Bible.
jeff		 Then I wouldn't worry too much. But let's keep an eye on her.
stella		You know? You might not be too bad a bargain for Lisa after all.
jeff		You don't say! I might just take that compliment as an insult.
lisa		Wasn't that close?
jeff		 Too close.
lisa		What was his reaction? I mean when he looked at the note?
stella		Well, it wasn't the kind of expression that would get him a quick loan at the bank.
lisa		Jeff -- how did I do?
jeff		Real professional. Would have made a great layout for the Bazaar. The model pressed back against a brick wall, eyes wild, tense. Low cut bodice, in new suspicious black, with a --
stella		 You'd make a good door prize at a wake.
lisa		Jeff -- the handbag.
jeff		Suppose Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring was among the jewelry he has in the handbag.  During that phone conversation he held up three rings -- one with a diamond -- one with a big stone of some kind -- and one plain gold band.
lisa		 Do you ever leave yours at home?
stella		The only way anybody could get that off would be to chop my finger -- Let's go down and find out what's buried in the garden.
lisa		Why not? I always wanted to meet Mrs. Thorwald.
jeff		What are you two talking about?
stella		Got a shovel?
jeff		No.
stella		There's probably one in the basement.
jeff		Now wait a minute --
lisa		Jeff, if you're squeamish, just don't look.
jeff		Now hold on. I'm not a bit squeamish about what might be under those flowers -- but I don't care to watch two women end up like that dog --
stella		 You know, Miss Fremont -- he might just have something there.
jeff		There's no point in taking unnecessary chances.  Give me the phone book, Lisa.
lisa		What for?
jeff		Maybe I can get Thorwald out of the apartment.
stella		We only need a few minutes.
jeff		I'll try to give you at least fifteen minutes.
lisa		How?
jeff		 I'm using that word "we" a little too freely, I guess. I don't take any of the chances.
lisa		Shall we vote him in, Stella?
stella		Unanimously.
jeff		 Go ahead, Thorwald -- pick it up. You're curious. You wonder if it's your girl friend calling. The one you killed for. Pick it up, Thorwald!
thorwald		 Hello.
jeff		 Did you get my note?
jeff		Well -- did you get it, Thorwald?
thorwald		Who are you?
jeff		I'll give you a chance to find out. Meet me in the bar at the Brevoort -- and do it right away.
thorwald		Why should I?
jeff		For a little business meeting -- to settle the estate of your late wife.
thorwald		 I don't know what you mean.
jeff		 Now stop wasting time, Thorwald, or I'll hang up and call the police.
thorwald		 I only have a hundred dollars or so.
jeff		That's a start. I'm at the Brevoort now. I'll be looking for you.
lisa		 Let's go, Stella.
jeff		One of you watch this window. If I see him coming back, I'll signal with a flashbulb.
baby sitter		This is Doyle's house.
jeff		This is L. B. Jefferies, a friend of Tom's. Who am I talking with?
baby sitter		This is the baby sitter.
jeff		Oh. When are they expected home?
baby sitter		I'm hired 'til one. They went to dinner and maybe night-clubbing.
jeff		Well, if he calls in, tell him to get in touch with L. B. Jefferies right away. I might have quite a surprise for him.
baby sitter		Does he have your number, Mr. Jefferies?
jeff		He has it. Thank you.
baby sitter		Goodnight.
jeff		Lisa -- no!
jeff		Come on. Come on! Get out of there!
stella		Ring Thorwald's phone the second you see him on the way back!
jeff		I'm going to ring him now!
stella		Give her another minute -- She's doing this for you.
stella		Miss Lonely Hearts!
stella		 Call the police!
stella		Maybe that music will delay her taking the pills.
jeff		Lisa! Lisa!
police		Precinct Six -- Sergeant Allgood.
police		Precinct Six -- Sergeant Allgood.
jeff		A man is assaulting a woman at one two five west ninth street. Second floor rear. Make it fast.
police		Your name?
jeff		L. B. Jefferies.
police		Phone number?
police		Two minutes.
jeff		 Stella -- what can we do?
stella		There they are.
stella		What's she trying to do? Why doesn't she turn him in?
jeff		Smart girl.
stella		Smart? She'll be arrested!
jeff		That'll get her out of there, won't it?
stella		Mrs. Thorwald's ring!
jeff		Stella! The lights! He'd seen us!
stella		When you took your first snapshot -- did you ever think it would bring you to this?
jeff		 Stella -- how long do you think he'll stay there?
stella		 Unless he's dumber than I think, he won't wait 'til his lease is up.
jeff		My billfold! In the right hand drawer.
stella		What do you need money for?
jeff		To bail Lisa out of jail.
stella		You know -- you could just leave her there until after next Tuesday -- so you could sneak away safely -- as planned.
jeff		 One hundred and twenty-seven.
stella		How much do you think you'll need?
jeff		First offense burglary --  The piggy bank.
stella		Ten here.
jeff		Thirty-three here. Totals one-ninety. Not enough.
stella		I got twenty or so in my purse. Give me what you've got.
jeff		What about the rest?
stella		When those cops get a look at Miss Fremont -- they'll even contribute.
jeff		 I'll tell you who it is when you get back.
jeff		Jefferies.
doyle		 This is Doyle, Jeff.
jeff		 Tom, I've got something real big for you.
doyle		 Look Jeff, don't louse up my night with another man killer stuffing a grisly trunk that turns out to be --
jeff		 Listen to me! Lisa's been arrested.
doyle		 Your Lisa?
jeff		My Lisa. She went into Thorwald's apartment, and he came back. The only way I could get her out was to call the police.
doyle		 I told you that --
jeff		 I know what you told me! She went in to get evidence, and she came out with it.
doyle		Like what?
jeff		Like Mrs. Thorwald's wedding ring. If that woman were still alive, she'd be wearing it.
doyle		 A possibility.
jeff		 A fact! Last night he killed a dog for pawing in his garden. Why? Because he had something buried in there. Something a dog could scent.
doyle		Like an old hambone?
jeff		 I don't know what pet name Thorwald had for his wife. And that night he went out half a dozen times with the metal suitcase. He wasn't taking his possessions, because they're up in his apartment now!
doyle		You think perhaps it was "old hambone?"
jeff		In sections! And one other thing, doubting Tom -- it just occurred to me that all the calls Thorwald made were long distance! If he called his wife the day she left -- after she arrived in Merritsville -- why did she need to send him a postcard saying she'd arrived?
doyle		 Where'd they take Lisa?
jeff		Precinct Six. I sent a friend over with bail money.
doyle		Maybe you won't need it. I'll run it down, Jeff.
jeff		Just don't dally. Thorwald knows he's being watched. He won't hang around long.
doyle		If that ring checks out, we'll give him an escort. So long.
miss torso		 Have you heard that song he's been writing?
jeff		 Hello.
thorwald		What do you want from me?
thorwald		Your friend -- the girl -- could have turned me in. Why didn't she?
thorwald		What is it you want? A lot of money? I don't have any money.
thorwald		Say something!
thorwald		 Say something! Tell me what you want!
thorwald		Can you get me that ring back?
jeff		 No.
thorwald		 Tell her to bring it back!
jeff		I can't. The police have it by now.
thorwald		Then if the police get me -- you won't be around to laugh!
thorwald		I'll give you a good look out the window.
lisa		Jeff! Jeff!
doyle		Creel! Your Thirty-eight!
lisa		Jeff -- Jeff darling!
lisa		 Don't move. Try to lie still.
jeff		Lisa -- I -- I -- can't tell you how scared I was that you -- you might --
lisa		 Shut up. I'm all right.
jeff		 Think you've got enough for a search warrant now?
doyle		Oh sure. Sure. I can make it.
detective		Lieutenant Doyle?
detective		Thorwald's ready to take us on a tour of the East River.
doyle		Did he say what was buried in the flower bed?
detective		Yeah. It's over in his apartment. In a hat box. Wanna look?
stella		Oh, no thanks -- I don't want any of part of her  What did I say?
****Dialogues from script :Rebel_Without_A_Cause.txt****

buzz		 That was pretty what you were whistling.  Whistle some more.
buzz		 You got a cigarette?
man		Oh, I think so--
man		 Filter tips.
buzz		 You smoke it.  Smoke it, Dad.
buzz		 I'll light it for you, Dad.
sergeant		Mixed up in that beating on Twelfth Street?
officer		No.  Plain drunkenness.
sergeant		This says he was picked up there.
officer		They had him on the carpet for an hour at Headquarters.  He's clear. Plain drunkenness.
sergeant		Young squirt.  All right--You want to lean him against something? Stand him over there.
gene		You going to tell me your name now?
little boy		 Where's your hair?
gene		It's all gone.
little boy		Did you get a haircut?
gene		No--it just fell out!
little boy		 Aw--
ray		What gang does he belong to?
gene		Give him a couple of years.
ray		Where's your mamma, honey?
little boy		I don't know.
ray		Judy--we're ready for you now.
judy		 He hates me.
ray		What?
judy		He hates me.
ray		What makes you think he hates you, Judy?
judy		I don't think.  I know.  He looks at me like I'm the ugliest thing in the world.  He doesn't like my friends--he--
judy		 He doesn't like anything about me-- he calls me--he calls me--
judy		 He calls me a dirty tramp--my own father!
ray		Do you think your father means that?
judy		Yes!  I don't know!  I mean maybe he doesn't mean it but he acts like he does.  We're altogether and we're going to celebrate Easter and catch a double bill.  Big deal.  So I put on my new dress and I came out and he--
ray		That one?
judy		Yes--he started yelling for a handkerchief--screaming.  He grabbed my face and he rubbed all my lipstick off--he rubbed till I thought I wouldn't have any lips left.  And all the time yelling at me--that thing--the thing I told you he called me.  Then I ran out of the house.
ray		Is that why you were wandering around at one o'clock in the morning?
judy		I was just talking a walk.  I tried to call the kids but everybody was out and I couldn't find them.  I hate my life.  I just hate it.
ray		You weren't looking for company, were you?
judy		No.
ray		Did you stop to talk to anyone, Judy?  Do you enjoy that?
judy		No.  I don't even know why I do it.
ray		Do you think you can get back at your Dad that way?  I mean sometimes if we can't get as close to somebody as we'd like we have to try making them jealous--so they'll have to pay attention.  Did you ever think of that?
judy		I'll never get close to anybody.
ray		Some kids stomped a man on Twelfth Street, Judy.
judy		You know where they picked me up! Twelfth Street!  I wasn't even near there!
ray		Would you like to go home if we can arrange it?  Did you notify the parents?
woman officer		She wouldn't give me their number.
ray		What's your number, Judy?  We'll see if your Dad will come and get you.
ray		Unless you really don't want to go home.  Would you rather stay here?
officer		Hey!
officer		 Hey!  That's enough static out of you.
jim		Want me to imitate a stupid cop?
officer		Cut it out now.  I'm warning you.
jim		Yes, ma'am.
negro woman		You shivering, John?  You cold?
jim		Want my jacket?
jim		 You want my jacket?  It's warm.
ray		Your mother will be down in a few minutes, Judy--
judy		 What?
ray		Your mother will be down in a few minutes.
judy		 My mother?
ray		She's being called for.
judy		You said you'd call my father.
ray		Goodbye, Judy.  Take it easy.
gene		John Crawford?
negro woman		Yes, sir.
gene		Come with me, John.
jim		Happy Easter.
mother		Where were you tonight?  They called us at the club and I got the fright of my life!
father		Where were you tonight, Jimbo?
jim		You think I'm funny?
jim		 Why didn't you take my jacket?
gene		Do you know why you shot those puppies, John?  Is that what they call you or do you have a nickname?
plato		 Plato.
negro woman		You talk to the man nice now, hear? He's going to help you.
plato		Nobody can help me.
gene		Can you tell me why you killed the puppies, Plato?
plato		No, sir.  I just went next door to look at them like I always do. They were nursing on their mother and I did it.  I guess I'm just no good?
gene		What do you think's going to happen, you do things like that?
plato		I don't know.  End up in the electric chair?
gene		Where did you get the gun?
plato		In my mother's drawer.
negro woman		She keep it to protect herself, sir. She scared without a man in the house.
gene		Where's your mother tonight, Plato?
plato		She's away.
negro woman		Seems like she's always going somewhere.  She got a sister in Chicago and she go for the holiday. She says her sister is all the family she has. GENE Where's your father?
negro woman		They not together, sir.  We don't see him in a long time now.
gene		Do you hear from him, son?
gene		You know if the boy ever talked to a psychiatrist?
plato		 Head-shrinker?
negro woman		 Oh, Mrs. Crawford don't believe in them!
gene		Well maybe she better start.
father		I don't see what's so bad about taking a little drink.
ray		You don't?
father		No.  I definitely don't.  I did the sa--
ray		He's a minor, Mr. Stark, and it looks to me like he had more than a little drink.
father		 Say, listen--
mother		 Jim--don't hum.
father		I guess I cut pretty loose in my day too.
mother		Really, Frank?  When was that?
father		Listen--can't you wait till we get home?
ray		Whoa!  Whoa!  I know you're a little upset but--
father		Sorry.
ray		What about you, Jim?  Got anything to say for yourself?
ray		Not interested, huh?
mother		Can't you answer?  What's the matter with you anyhow?
father		He's just loaded, honey.
mother		I was talking to Jim.
father		 Let me just explain to you--we just moved here, y'understand?  The kid has no friends yet and--
jim		Tell him why we moved here.
father		Hold it, Jim.
jim		You can't protect me.
father		 Don't I give you everything you want?  A bicycle--you get a bicycle. A car--
jim		You buy me many things.  Thank you.
father		Not just buy!  You hear all this talk about not lovely your kids enough.  We give you love and affection, don't we?
father		Then what is it?  I can't even touch you anymore but you pull away. I want to understand you.  Why'd you get drunk?  You must have had a reason.
father		Was it because we went to that party?  You know what kind of drunken brawls those parties turn into-- it's no place for kids.
mother		A minute ago you said you didn't care if he drinks.
grandma		He said a little drink.
jim		 You're tearing me apart!
mother		What?
jim		Stop tearing me apart!  You say one thing and he says another and then everybody changes back--
mother		That's a fine way to behave!
grandma		 Well you know who he takes after!
ray		Outside, Jim.  Come outside.
ray		Excuse us a minute?
father		 Sure.  Sure.
jim		Someone should put poison in her epsom salts.
ray		Grandma?
jim		Get lost.
ray		Hang loose, boy.  I'm warning you.
jim		Wash up and go home.
ray		Big tough character.  You don't kid me, pal.  How come you're not wearing your boots?
ray		 Too bad you didn't connect.  You could have gone to Juvenile Hall. That's what you want, isn't it?
jim		No.
ray		Sure it is.  You want to bug us till we have to lock you up.  Why?
jim		Leave me alone.
ray		No.
jim		I don't know why--!
ray		Go on--don't give me that.  Someone giving you hard looks?
jim		I just get so--  Okay.  Okay.  Let it out.
ray		You feel like you want to blow your wheels right now?
jim		All the time!  I don't know what gets into me--but I keep looking for trouble and I always--I swear you better lock me up.  I'm going to smash somebody--I know it.
ray		Try the desk.
ray		That why you moved from the last town? 'Cause you were in trouble? You can talk about it if you want to--I know about it anyway. Routine check.
jim		And they think they are protecting my by moving.
ray		You were getting a good start in the wrong direction back there. Why did you do it?
jim		Mess that kid up?
jim		 He called me chicken.
ray		And your folks didn't understand?
jim		They never do.
ray		So then you moved?
jim		They think I'll make friends if we move.  Just move and everything'll be roses and sunshine.
ray		But you don't think that's a solution.
ray		 Things pretty tough for you at home?
jim		She eats him alive and he takes it.
jim		What a zoo!
ray		What?
jim		A zoo.  He always wants to be my pal, you know?  But how can I give him anything when he's--I mean I love him and I don't want to hurt him--but I don't know what to do anymore except maybe die.
ray		Pretty mixed up?
jim		If he could--
ray		"If he could" what?  You mean your father?
jim		I mean if he had the guts to knock Mom cold once I bet she'd be happy and I bet she'd stop picking.  They make mush out of him.  Just mush. One thing I know is I never want to be like him.
ray		 Chicken?
jim		I bet you see right through me, don't you?
jim		How can anyone grow up in this circus?
ray		You got me, Jim--but they do.  Want some water?
jim		 Boy--if I had one day when I didn't have to be all confused and ashamed of everything--or I felt I belonged some place.
ray		 Here.  Look, will you do something for me?  If the pot starts boiling again, will you come and see me before you get yourself in a jam? Even if you just want to talk--come in and shoot the breeze.  It's easier sometimes than talking to your folks.
jim		Okay--
ray		Any time--day or night.  You calmed down enough to go back now?
jim		 You serious?
jim		I'm sorry.
mother		All right, darling.
grandma		 This was all very unfortunate, but he made a mistake and he's sorry-- so we're not going to have any more trouble.  He's always been a lovely boy--
jim		Lovely!  Grandma--if you tell another lie you're going to turn to stone.
ray		Luck, Jim.  Don't forget.
father		 Have some cigars.
ray		No thanks, I don't smoke.
father		Go on--Give 'em to your friends.
ray		No--thanks, very much, Mr. Stark.
mother		Frank--he doesn't want any.
judy		 Beau!
judy		 What are you trying to do, get yourself killed?
beau		 Yes!
mother		 Sit down and eat--you'll be late.
jim		 It'd stick in my throat, Mom.  I'm nervous or something--
grandma		It's a wonder we don't all have TB or some other terrible disease after living in all those smokey cities!
mother		Well, drink your milk anyhow.
grandma		 There aren't so many factories here.
father		Mother--
jim		 You make any sandwiches?
father		My first day of school, mother'd make me eat and by golly I could never even swallow till recess--
mother		 There's nothing to be nervous about. Here's peanut butter and meat loaf--
grandma		What did I tell you?  Peanut butter!
mother		Well, there's a thermos of orange juice and some apple-sauce cake in the wax paper to wash it down.
grandma		I baked that!
jim		 'Bye, Mom.
mother		Goodbye, dear.
father		 So long, young fella.  Knock 'em dead, like your old man used to!
jim		Sure--  You know something?  I have a feeling we're going to stay here.
father		And listen--watch out about the pals you choose--Know what I mean? Don't let them choose you--
judy		Beau!  All right--go to school alone!
jim		 Hey!
jim		 Hey, didn't I see you before some place?
jim		Hi.  I saw you before.
judy		Bully for you.
jim		You don't have to be unfriendly.
judy		Now that's true!
jim		 See?
judy		"Life is crushing in on me."
jim		 "Life can be beautiful." Hey, I know where it was.
judy		Where what was.
jim		Where I saw you.  You live around here?
judy		 Who lives?
jim		See, I'm new.
judy		Won't mother be proud.
jim		You're really flipped--aren't you.
jim		 Where's Dawson High School?
judy		You going there?
jim		Yeah--why--
judy		Dig the square wardrobe!
jim		 Yeah.  So where's the high school?
judy		 University and 10th--Want to carry my books?
jim		I was just getting my car.  I could take you.
judy		The kids take me.
jim		Oh.
judy		I'll bet you're a real yo yo.
jim		A what?
judy		 Goodbye!  See you!
jim		 I'm not so bad.
buzz		Stella-a-a-a!
judy		Steady Marlon!
buzz		Wanna make the colored lights go around and around?
buzz		 What's that?
judy		A new disease.
buzz		 Friend of yours?
judy		I'm glad they let you out.
buzz		Nobody chickened.
judy		I heard about it.  You're lucky he lived.
buzz		They always live.
jim		Where's University and 10th? JUDY  That way!
chick		 That way!
buzz		 That way!
jim		Hi--can you tell we where I go? I'm just starting here.
monitor		 Mr. Bassett's office--203.  He'll tell you where your home room is--
jim		Thanks a lot.
plato		 Hi.
plato		 Hi.
jim		Hi there.
plato		You remember me?
jim		No.  I don't think so--
plato		I'm sorry--I made a mistake.
lecturer		The last of us search the heavens and stand amazed.  For the stars will still be there, moving through their ancient rhythms.
jim		Boy!
plato		 What?
jim		 Once you been up there, you know you been some place!
buzz		I'm a crab!
jim		 Moo!
crunch		 Yeah, moo.
buzz		Moo.  That's real cute.  Moo.
goon		Hey, he's real rough--
crunch		I bet he fights with cows.
buzz		Moo.
plato		You shouldn't monkey with him.
jim		What?
plato		He's a wheel.  So's she.  It's hard to make friends with them.
jim		I don't want to make friends.
jim		Hey, it's over.  The world ended.
plato		What does he know about Man alone?
teacher		 The heck with it.
plato		Excuse me.  Excuse me.
male teacher		John, where you going?
plato		I forgot something.  I'll get a hitch.
buzz		What you looking at?
plato		Nothing.
plato		 What's your name!
jim		Jim.  What's yours?
plato		 Plato.  It's a nickname.
plato		Listen, I told you not to fool with them.  Now they're waiting for you.
jim		I know.  That's why I came back.
plato		You scared?
jim		I just don't want trouble.
plato		He has a knife.
jim		I saw it.  Gee, look at that thing swing, will you?  Do you think it never stops?
plato		No.  It's perpetual motion.
jim		Oh, I bet some little guy comes in here at night and pushes it.  Go- go-go!
plato		Jim?
jim		I'm here.
plato		 They're still there!
plato		Jim--Do you think when the end of the world comes it'll be at night?
jim		No.  In the morning.
jim		I just have a feeling.
plato		If you don't want trouble, I know a place we can go--
plato		It's a big mansion and we could sneak around there and they wouldn't even know.  You could be safe--
plato		There it is.
plato		Should we go?
jim		 The shadows are getting long.
helen		 Le soleil tombe dans la mer.
jim		 You know something?
buzz		What?
jim		 You watch too much television.
buzz		Hey, he's real abstract and different.
jim		I'm cute, too.
jim		Meaning me?
buzz		What?
jim		Chicken?
jim		You shouldn't call me that.
jim		 You always at ringside?  You always travel in this rank company?
jim		I thought only punks fought with knives.
buzz		Who's fighting?  This is the test, man.  It's a crazy game.
helen		Les jeux de courage!
crunch		 Machismo.  Machismo.
jim		Machismo?
buzz		Somebody find him a knife.
plato		Jim!
buzz		You know the action?  No cutting. Just sticking--jab real cool.
buzz		 What you waiting on, Toreador?  I thought you wanted some action!
buzz		Big brave bull.  Hah!  Toro!  Hah! Hah!
goon		Moo!
buzz		Come on--Fascinate us.  Impress us. What's happening?  Let's go!
jim		I don't want trouble. BUZZ  You crud chicken!  You're wasting our time!
buzz		Yeah--that's pretty close.  How about a little closer, Toreador? Cut off a button and you get to join the club!
guide		 Mr. Minton!  Mr. Minton!  Trouble!
guide		Look.  There's your audience.
lecturer		Oh, I don't think so.  From the school?
group		Ole!  Ole!
mil		Buzzy!  Look out!  He's got a chain!
buzz		 Hey!  Chicken Little! BUZZ trips PLATO quickly and kicks him while he's down. CRUNCH grabs the chain.
jim		All right--you want it, you got it!
crunch		Honk.  Let's split.
buzz		Split for what?  Couple old poopheads?
jim		You satisfied or you want more?
buzz		How 'bout you?  Say the word and you're cold, Jack--you're dead.
judy		Buzzie--we better get out of here.
buzz		What's eating you, Judy?  You want him alive?
jim		Where can we meet?
buzz		Know the Millertown bluff?
cookie		The bluff, Buzz!  That's dangerous up there.
buzz		Draw him a picture, Chicken Little. Eight o'clock.  Cookie, you call Moose and get a couple cars.  We're going to have us some real kicks. Little chickie-run.  You been on chickie-runs before?
jim		Sure--that's all I do.
guide		All right--all of you--start moving!
judy		You mean l'il ol' us?  What's the matter with the nice man?
guide		Don't clown with me.
buzz		Why'nt you go suck on something sweet?
guide		You think you're tough?  I got a son twice your size and I can still handle him.
lecturer		Don't lose control, Mr. Jamison.  I think if we just explain--
guide		Explain to these?  They think they own the world!
crunch		The world is round!
mil		The world is flat!
cookie		All the world's a stage!
kids		The world goes round the sun! Goodbye proud world! I got the world on a string! The world's my oyster! Hey!  A fish-eater!  Brain food.
lecturer		 Sometimes the world is too much with us, isn't it, son?  What was the disturbance?
jim		Nothing.
lecturer		You're bleeding.  Are you all right?
jim		I scratched my mosquito bites.  I'm fine.
jim		I'm fine--thanks!
plato		Are you really going to meet them?
jim		Who knows.  Plato?
plato		What?
jim		What's a chickie-run?
jim		Mom?
father		Hiya, Jimbo.
father		You thought I was Mom?
jim		Yeah!
father		It's just this get-up.  The girl's out and I was bringing Mom's supper.
jim		 And you dropped it?
father		 Yeah!  Shh!
jim		That's funny!
father		I better clean this up before she sees it.
jim		Let her see.  What could happen.
jim		Dad--
jim		Dad--don't.  Don't.
announcer		Time now for the seven o'clock news. Friends, the next time you go shopping.
judy's father		What are you wishing for, Judy?
judy		 I wasn't wishing.  I was looking at the moon.
judy's father		 "Man in the Moon, how came you there-- Up in the sky where you are shining-- Floating so high in the frosty air--? Oh, say--Man in the Moon!"--
judy		 How did you know that?
judy's father		We used to sing it in school.  Don't look at me with such horror. They had schools in those days.
judy		But the same song.  I think it's fantastic!
judy's father		We were romantic then too--
judy		Are you and Mom home tonight?
judy's father		No.  Why?
judy		Nothing, only it'd be nice to spend an evening together for a change.
judy's father		With us old creeps?  Come on, we have to eat.
judy		 Daddy--
judy		Good evening.
judy's father		Hi.
judy		 Didn't you forget something?
judy's father		What?
judy's father		 What's the matter with you?
judy's father		 You're too old for that kind of stuff, kiddo.  I thought you stopped doing that long ago.
judy		 I didn't want to stop.
judy's mother		Didn't want to stop what?
judy's father		Nothing.
judy		I was talking to Dad.
judy's father		I didn't kiss her so it's a big thing.
judy's mother		 You don't have to stand there, darling.  Drink your tomato juice.
judy		I guess I just don't understand anything.
judy's father		I'm tired, Judy.  I'd like to change the subject.
judy		Why?
judy's father		I'd like to, that's all.  Girls your age don't do that.  You need an explanation?
judy		 Girls don't love their father? Since when?  Since I got to be sixteen?
judy's father		Stop it now!  Sit down!
judy's father		 Hi, rascal.
beau		 Hi.
judy		May I please be excused?
judy's father		 Hey, hey, Glamorpuss.  I'm sorry.
judy's father		 I don't know what to do.  All of a sudden she's a problem.
judy's mother		She'll outgrow it, dear.  It's just the age.
beau		 The atomic age!
judy's mother		 It's the age when nothing fits.
father		You awake?
jim		Yes.
father		Listen--I took a steak out of the freezer.  I thought we could have a real old-fashioned stag party--just the two of us, what do you say?
jim		I'm not hungry.
jim		Hey--I want to ask you something.
father		 Shoot, Jimbo.
jim		Suppose you knew that you had to do something very dangerous--where you have to prove something you need to know--a question of honor.  Would you do it?
father		 Is there some kind of trick answer?
jim		What would you do, Dad?
father		 I wouldn't do anything hasty. Let's get a little light on the subject.
jim		Blood.
father		How'd that happen!  What kind of trouble you in?
jim		The kind we've been talking about. Can you answer me now?
father		Listen--nobody should make a snap decision--This isn't something you just--we ought to consider all the pros and cons--
jim		We don't have time.
father		We'll make time.  Where's some paper.  We'll make a list and if we're still stuck then we ought to get some advice--
jim		What can you do when you have to be a man?
father		Well, now--
jim		Just give me a direct answer!  You going to stop me from going, Dad?
father		You know I never stop you from anything.  Believe me--you're at a wonderful age.  In ten years you'll look back on this and wish you were a kid again.
jim		Ten years?  Now, Dad--I need an answer now!
father		I just want to show you how foolish you are.  When you're older you'll laugh at yourself for thinking this is so important--
father		Jim?  Jim!
buzz		 Hey, Chicken-Little.
buzz		Where's Toreador?  He beg off?
plato		He's not scared of you.
buzz		 Goon!  You seen that adolescent type anywheres?
cookie		He won't show.
goon		Well, you going to wait all night? I'm getting nervous, man!  We got to do something!
crunch		 Hey, Buzz!
buzz		What?
cookie		Over there.
jim		How'd you get here?
plato		I hitched.
jim		Boy, I bet you'd go to a hanging.
plato		My personality's showing again. Should I leave?
jim		No.  It's okay.
buzz		Come on.  Let's see what we're driving.
buzz		Just him.
jim		Stay there.
buzz		What you say your name was?
jim		Jim Stark.
buzz		Buzz Gundersen.
jim		Hi.
buzz		Glad to meet you.
moose		Got some goodies for you, Buzzie-boy.
buzz		Flashlight?
buzz		Looks good.
moose		Clean as a whistle.  They both got plenty breeze.
buzz		Look good to you?
jim		Sure.  It's fine.
buzz		Okay.
judy		Is he your friend?
plato		Yes.  My best friend.
judy		What's he like?
plato		Oh, I don't know.  You have to get to know him.  He doesn't say much but when he does you know he means it.  He's sincere.
judy		Well, that's the main thing--don't you think so?
plato		Maybe next summer he's going to take me hunting with him--and fishing.  I want him to teach me how and I bet he won't get mad if I goof.  His name's Jim.  It's really James but he likes Jim more.  People he really likes--he lets call him "Jamie."
judy		Want to finish my hamburger?  I only took a bite.
plato		Okay.
buzz		Better try the doors.  Jump out.
buzz		No--quick, man!  You got to break quick.
buzz		 This is the edge, boy.  This is the end.
jim		Yeah.
buzz		I like you, you know?
jim		Buzz?  What are we doing this for?
buzz		 We got to do something.  Don't we?
judy		Feel okay?
buzz		Give me some dirt.
buzz		Hey, Toreador!  She signals.  We head for the edge.  The first guy who jumps--chicken!
buzz		What's happening?
judy		Good luck, Buzz.
jim		 Judy.
jim		Me too.
jim		Thank you.
buzz		Hit your lights!
crowd		 Oh!
jim		 Where's Buzz!  Where's Buzz!
plato		 Jim!  Jim!
crunch		 Down there!  Down there is Buzz!
plato		Come on, Jim!  We got to get out of here!
plato		Get up!  Get up!  Come on!
plato		Go on!  Move!
judy		 This is fine--
jim		 Judy.  Will you be okay?
jim		I got to go in.  You better get home too.  Hey--what?
plato		Why don't you come home with me?  I mean nobody's home at my house--and I'm not tired, are you?  I don't have many--people I can talk to.
jim		Who has?
plato		If you want to come we could talk and then in the morning we could have breakfast like my dad used to--  Gee...if you could only have been my father...we could...
jim		 Hey...you flipped--or something? You better take off...
plato		 O.K.  G'night.  I got to pick up my scooter.  See you tomorrow.
jim		Yeah.
beau		Hello, darling, baby-pie, glamor- puss, sweetie--
judy's father		 Beau!  You belong in bed!
mother		He's home!  You're home!  You're all right!
mother		What happened, darling.  We were so worried.  I was going to take a sleeping pill, but I wouldn't till I knew you were home.
jim		I have to talk to someone, Mom.  I have to talk to you both.  And Dad this time you got to give me an answer.
father		Go ahead.
jim		I'm in terrible trouble.--You know that big high bluff near Miller- town Junction?
father		Sure--there was a bad accident there.  They showed the pictures on T.V.
jim		I was in it.
mother		How!
jim		It doesn't matter how.  I was driving a stolen car--
mother		Do you enjoy doing this to me or what--
jim		Mom--I'm not--
mother		And you wanted him to make a list!
father		Will you let him tell it!
jim		She never wants to hear.  She doesn't care!
mother		I guess when I nearly died giving birth to you--that shows how much I don't care!
father		Just relax, please relax!
jim		I told you Dad, it was a question of honor.  They called me chicken-- you know, chicken!  I had to go or I would never have been able to face any of those kids again.  So I got in one of these cars and a boy called Buzz got in the other.  We had to drive fast and jump before the cars went over the edge of the bluff.  I got out okay but Buzz didn't.  He was killed.
mother		Good Lord!
jim		I can't keep it to myself anymore--
father		Well, just get it off your chest, son.
jim		That's not what I mean.  I've never done anything right.  I've been going around with my head in a sling for years...I don't want to drag you into this but I can't help it.  I don't think I can prove anything by going around pretending I'm tough any more, so maybe you look like one thing but you still feel like another.
father		You're absolutely right!
jim		Are you listening to me?  You're involved in this!  I want to go to the police and tell them I was mixed up in this thing tonight?
father		You what?
mother		No!
father		Did anyone see you there?  I mean did they get your license number or anything?
jim		I don't think so--
father		Well--
mother		What about the other boys--Do you think they'll go to the police?
jim		What's that got to do with it?
mother		Why should you be the only one.
father		Look Jim.  Far be it from me to tell you what to do, but there's--
mother		Are you going to preach now?  Are we going to have a sermon?
father		I'm just explaining what you mean! You can't be an idealist all your life!  Nobody thanks you for sticking your neck out!
mother		That's right!
jim		Except yourself!
father		Will you wait a minute?
jim		You don't want me to go.
mother		No!  I don't want you to go to the police!  There were other people and why should you be the only one involved!
jim		But I am involved!  We're all involved, Mom!  A boy was killed! I don't see how we can get out of that by pretending it didn't happen!
father		You know you did wrong.  That's the main thing, isn't it?
jim		No!  It's nothing!  Just nothing! You always told me to tell the truth.  You think you can just turn that off?
mother		He's not saying that!  He's saying don't volunteer!
jim		Just tell a little white lie?
father		You'll learn as you get a little older, Jim.
jim		I don't want to learn that!
mother		Well, it doesn't matter anyhow-- because we're moving.
jim		No!  You're not tearing me loose any more.
mother		Do I have to spell it out?
jim		You're not going to use me as an excuse again, Mom.  Every time you can't face yourself you want to move and you say it's because of me or the neighborhood or some other phony excuse.  Now I want to do one thing right and I'm not letting you run away.  Dad?
father		Son--this is all happening so fast--
jim		You better give me something, Dad. You better give me something  Mom?
mother		Jimmy, you're very young--and a foolish decision now could wreck your whole life.
jim		Dad--answer her--aren't you going to stand up for me?
jim		Dad?
mother		Stop it!  You'll kill him!  Jim! Do you want to kill your father?
moose		Let go of me--
moose's father		You want a good crack in the mouth?
crunch		This place appeal to you or something?
crunch		What's he going to pull--
moose		Nothing, Crunch.  They picked him up like the rest of--
crunch		You see any cops?
moose's father		 You monsters start home.  We're going to--
moose		Yeah.  Yeah.
moose's father		We're following you so better get there.
crunch		You see any cops?
moose		No--
crunch		He's going to cheese, I tell you. Nobody arrested him!
moose		I think I should go home.
crunch		No.  We're going to bring him down.
moose		Crunch--my father's--You going to kill him?
crunch		 You clean out of your head?  Come on!
sergeant		 W-O-J-T-what?
hoodlum		O-W-I-C-Z.  Wojtowicz.  What's the matter, man?  That's the craziest name in town!  It swings!
jim		Excuse me--but--You know where I can find--I mean I don't remember his last name--
sergeant		Look--can't you see I'm writing?
hoodlum		 Man, this cat never stops.  He just keeps going like Big Jay at a session! OFFICER Shut up.
hoodlum		He's writing a book about me--
sergeant		What I could write about you they wouldn't print.
jim		I think his first name's Ray--I have to see him.  It's very important.
sergeant		What's the charge?
officer		Assault with a deadly weapon.
jim		Listen--
sergeant		 He's not here.  He's not at Juvenile Hall.  I don't know where he is.  He's out on a call and he'll be out all night.  How old are you?
jim		My parents know I'm out.  They know I'm here.
sergeant		Come back tomorrow.
jim		I'll wait for him.
sergeant		Why don't you come back tomorrow, son?  Ever been booked before?
judy's father		Who wants her?  Who?  Jim who? Never heard of you.
plato		What do you want!
crunch		You know what we want.  We want your friend.
goon		We got eyes for him.
plato		Listen, you guys ought to go home. The cops are cruising every--
goon		Where does he live?
crunch		You better tell us and I'm not kidding.
plato		My old man's got a gun.
goon		His old man's got a gun.  What do you think of that!  Now you talk!  Talk!
negro woman		 What you doing!  What you doing to him!  You clear out of here 'fore I call the police!
negro woman		Clear out.  Go on!  Go on now!
moose		Let's go, Crunch.
negro woman		Why you like to mix with bad boys like that?  Why you get in trouble all the--
plato		I have to go out.  I have to warn him.
negro woman		You not going anywhere!  You staying home while your mama's away.
negro woman		John!  What you doing with that! You leave that be!  Put it down before you hurt yourself.  Hear me?
negro woman		 John!  You stay home!  John!  John!
announcer		Coming up now another request--this time from the boys down at Anna's Pizza Paradise--A new arrangement of a great oldie in rhythm and blues.  Jim, this is dedicated to you--from Buzz.
judy		They'll be looking for you.
jim		They saw where I jumped!  I didn't chicken!  What do I have to do-- kill myself?
judy		It doesn't matter to them.
jim		You were looking for me, weren't you?
judy		 No--I was just--maybe--
jim		I tried to call you before. JUDY I thought so.
jim		Want some milk?
jim		That's all I can do when I'm nervous.  Drink milk.  Here--have a slug.
jim		You still pretty upset?
judy		I'm numb.
jim		You cold?
judy		Even if I'm near a fire, I'm cold. I guess just about everybody's cold.
jim		I swear, sometimes, you just want to hold onto somebody!  Judy, what am I going to do?  I can't go home again.
judy		Neither can I.
jim		No?  Why not?  You know something?  Sometimes I figure I'll never live to see my next birthday.  Isn't that dumb?
judy		No.
jim		Every day I look in the mirror and say, "What?  You still here?" Man!
jim		Hey!  You smiled!
jim		Like even today.  I woke up this morning, you know?  And the sun was shining and everything was nice. Then the first thing that happens is I see you and I thought this is going to be one terrific day so you better live it up, boy, 'cause tomorrow maybe you'll be nothing.
judy		I'm sorry I treated you mean today. You shouldn't believe what I say when I'm with the kids.  Nobody acts sincere.
jim		Why'd you get mixed up with them? You don't have to prove anything.
judy		If you knew me you wouldn't say that.
jim		I don't think you trust anybody, do you?
judy		Why?
jim		I'm getting that way, too.
judy		 Have you ever gone with anyone who--
jim		Sure.  Lots of times.
judy		So have I.  But I've never been in love.  Isn't that awful?
jim		 Awful?  No.  It's just lonely. It's the loneliest time.
judy		Why did you do that?
jim		I felt like it.
judy		Your lips are soft when you kiss.
jim		Where you going?
judy		I don't know, but we can't stay here.
jim		Where can we go?  I can't go back into that zoo.
judy		I'm never going back.
jim		Listen!  I know a place!  PLATO showed me before.  An old deserted mansion near the planetarium  Would you go with me?
jim		You can trust me, Judy.
judy		I feel as if I'm walking under water.
mother		Frank?  I'm frightened.
father		What's that pounding?
mother		I don't know.  First I thought it was Jim but--
father		He's home.  I heard the car.
mother		Are you going down there?
father		Look--just relax, will you?
father		See?  It stopped.
mother		I still think you should go down.
father		 Anyone there?
mother		 Open it.
voice		Where's your son?
father		What?
another voice		Where's your baby boy gone to, Daddy?  We want him.
father		Look in his room!
father		Jim!  Jim!
father		Son?
judy's father		Is anything wrong?  I'm your neighbor.
father		Oh, no, thanks.  I just wanted to-- to be sure my garage was closed.
father		No, honey.  No, he's not here.
judy's father		 Judy?
father		What are you doing?
plato		Where's Jim?
father		I don't know.  Do you--do you know where he is?
plato		No.  No, I don't.
plato		I know where--
plato		Hope I didn't bother you.  Goodnight.
father		Hey, come back here.  Who are you?
plato		Jim!
jim		Who's that!
plato		It's me!
jim		How'd you find me?  What's happening?
plato		They're looking for you!--
jim		Yeah?
plato		Everybody!  Crunch and Goon and everybody!  I think they're going to kill you.
jim		We know.
plato		They think you told the police on them.  They--who's in there?
jim		Judy.
plato		Help me in!
jim		Hey where'd you go?
plato		I'm here.  Shut up.
jim		Come out come out wherever you are!
plato		Shut up.  Are you nuts?
jim		No.  I'm scared.
plato		We're safe here.  I hope.  What do you think?
jim		 Wow!  Well now-there-then!
plato		Isn't it crazy?
jim		Wowee ow wow!  Let's take it for the summer.
judy		Oh, Jim!
jim		No--come on.  Should we rent or are we in a buying mood, dear?
judy		 You decide, darling.  Remember our budget.
plato		Don't give it a thought.  Only three million dollars a month!
judy		Oh, we can manage that!  I'll scrimp and save and work my fingers to the bone...
jim		Why don't we just rent it for the season?
judy		You see, we've just--oh, you tell him, darling.  I'm so embarrassed I could die!
jim		Well--we're newlyweds.
judy		There's just one thing.  What about--
plato		Children?  Well, we really don't encourage them.  They're so noisy and troublesome, don't you agree?
judy		Yes.  And so terribly annoying when they cry.  I just don't know what to do when they cry, do you dear?
jim		Of course.  Drown them like puppies.
judy		See, we're very modern.
plato		Shall I show you the nursery?  It's far away from the rest of the house. If you have children--Oh I hate the word!--or if you decide to adopt one--they can carry on and you'll never even notice.  In fact, if you lock them in you never have to see them again, much less talk to them.
judy		Talk to them!  Heavens!
jim		Nobody talks to children!  They just tell them one thing and mean another.
plato		It's wonderful that you understand so well--and so young too!  You know the most wonderful feature about the nursery?
jim		What?
plato		There's only one key.
jim		We'll take it!
plato		Come on!
moose		What time is it?
crunch		Hang loose.  We got all night.
moose		That maid saw us.  She could identify us too.
crunch		You still want to go home, Moose?
moose		No.
crunch		Then shut your mouth before your guts run out!
goon		What guts?
jim		 Quick!  Fill the pool!
jim		Let's see how long we can stay under.
plato		Man, you're schizoid!
jim		 I'm what?  What?
judy		You can't talk underwater!
jim		 I bet you hear everything I say!
plato		 Isn't he schizoid?
jim		 Hey!  How 'bout that!
plato		Haven't you noticed your personality splitting?
jim		Not lately.
jim		How do you know so much about this junk, Plato?
plato		I had to go to a head-shrinker.  I only went twice though.  My mother said it cost too much, so she went to Hawaii instead.
jim		No.  Seriously.  What's your trouble?
plato		I don't know but whatever it is, it's gone now.  I mean I'm happy now.  Here.
plato		I came here before.
jim		When was that?
plato		When I was here?  When I ran away. I used to run away a lot but they always took me back.
jim		Who?
plato		Mom and Dad.  I used to be in my crib and I'd listen to them fight.
jim		You remember that far back?  Boy, I can't even remember yesterday.
judy		Plato, where's your father now?
plato		He's dead.  He was a hero in the China Sea. JIM You told me he's a big wheel in New York!
plato		I did?  Well, he might as well be dead.  What's the difference?
judy		It's all right.
jim		Sure.
jim		 You have a long life-line.
judy		So have you.
jim		Ever been in a place like this before?
judy		Not exactly.  It's certainly huge.
jim		How many rooms do you think there are?
judy		I don't know.
jim		Should we explore?
jim		Hey!  Will you look at this room!  Judy?
jim		 Isn't this the craziest?
judy		Hi.
jim		Hi.
jim		 What?
judy		Your hand's all wet and it's shaky.  You're so funny.
jim		Why?
judy		I don't know--you just are. Leaving a light for Plato.  That was nice.
jim		Maybe he's scared of the dark.
judy		Are you?
jim		 Here we are-- out of cigarettes-- Junior's in the nurs'ry-- See how late it gets--
judy		You don't need to do that.
jim		There's something I should tell you, Judy.
judy		I know already.  We don't have to pretend now.
jim		 What a relief!
judy		Is this what it's like to love somebody?
jim		You disappointed?
judy		 Funny Jimmy.  You're so clean and you--this is silly.
jim		What?
judy		You smell like baby powder.
jim		So do you.
judy		I never felt so clean before.
jim		It's not going to be lonely, Judy. Not for you and not for me.
judy		I love somebody.  All the time I've been looking for someone to love me and now--I love somebody.  And it's so easy.  Why is it easy now?
jim		It is for me too.
judy		I love you, Jim.  I really mean it.
jim		I mean it too.
goon		What you stopping for?
crunch		You scam a car up there?
mother		So what?
crunch		Nobody's lived in that hunk of junk for five-six years.
crunch		Well, what do you know!  I feel a kick coming on!
officer		We just zeroed three kids in a heap. Crest Drive and Observatory.  Looks like house-breaking.  Send us some help.  They may be armed.  Over.
crunch		Good morning.
crunch		Moose!  Take the steps!  Goon!  The other side.
crunch		Come on!  Let's make it!
plato		Save me!
plato		 What you run out on me for!  What you leave me alone for?
jim		Plato!
plato		 I don't want you for my father!
jim		Your father!
jim		 You crazy nut!  You crazy, crazy nut!
plato		 Get away from me!
judy		Jim!
officer		 Halt!
officer		 Come here.
jim		Plato!
plato		No!
jim		Plato!
judy		Jim!  Watch out!
first officer		Take the house!  I'll head him off.
radio		--located at Summit Drive--the Planetarium. RAY  There are some kids in trouble-- you'll have to go with me.
father		Perfectly all right.
jim		 Plato!
judy		Did he hit you?
jim		No!
judy		We have to go back!
jim		No!  I got to find him.
judy		After he tried to shoot you?
jim		He didn't mean it--we shouldn't have left him.  He needed us.
judy		He needed you, maybe.  So do I.
jim		He needs you too.  Come on.
judy		You should have heard him talk about you tonight.  Like you were the hero in the China Seas.
jim		Sure.  He was trying to make us his family.
judy		They're killing him!
officer		You're making it tough on yourself, kid.  Come out quietly now.  You didn't kill anybody yet.
officer		 Need a little help here!
chief		We heard firing.  He get anybody? You alone?
officer		We got a cookaboo inside.  He wounded some kid earlier.
chief		How'd he get in?
officer		Smashed the front door.
chief		Any other entrance?
officer		 Down in back.
chief		 Silence.  Please maintain silence. Keep back and stay off the pavements.  Keep back and stay off the pavements.  There will be emergency vehicles coming through. This warning is for your own protection.
negro woman		What's going on?
officer		I don't know, lady.  Some kid's in trouble.  Stand back, please.
negro woman		I got to know.  My boy run off tonight.  He had a gun with him, too.
chief		Hello, Ray--Know anything about this?
ray		As much as you do--Loan me your mike, will you?
chief		 Help yourself.
ray		 I am addressing the boy in the planetarium.  I am speaking to the boy inside.  This is Ray Framek from the Juvenile Division--
mother		Frank!
father		Stay here.  That was my son!
ray		You sure?
father		I think I know my son.
chief		Officers!  Another boy and girl just ran into the planetarium.  We do not know if they are armed. Hold your positions until further instruction.
jim		 Plato?
jim		 Hey, I'm going to open the door now. You'll be able to see me and you can shoot me if you want, but just remember one thing, Plato--You're my friend.  That means a lot to me.
jim		Plato?
plato		I'm here.
jim		Boy, I'm blind as a bat!  You got a match?  I'm going to break my neck in here.  Where are you?
plato		I've got a gun.
jim		I know.  Light a match, will you?
jim		That's swell.  How are you?
plato		I'm fine.
plato		You think the end of the world will come at nighttime, Jim?
jim		No.  At dawn.
plato		Why?
jim		I just have a feeling.  Where are you?
plato		Here.
jim		Well, stop hiding and stand up.  I can't talk to you if I don't see you.
jim		Hey, look at the stars, Plato. Stand up and look at the stars.
jim		That's fine.
jim		I'm not going to hurt you. PLATO Why did you run out on me?
jim		We didn't run out.  We were coming right back.
plato		You sure?
jim		Sure I'm sure.  Judy's waiting. You ready to come out now?
plato		No.
jim		I promise nothing'll happen if you do.  You want my jacket?  It's warm.
plato		Can I keep it?
jim		What do you think?
jim		You want to give me your gun now, Plato?
plato		My gun?
jim		In your pocket.  Give it to me.
plato		I need it.
jim		You trust me, don't you?  Just give it to me for a second.
plato		You promised to give it back.
jim		Friends never break promises, do they?  Okay.  Here.  Now listen.  There are a lot of people outside and they all want you to be safe.  You understand that?  They said I could come in and bring you out.
plato		Why?
jim		They like you.  Okay?
plato		Come on!
judy		Hi, Plato!
plato		Hi.
plato		Who's that?
jim		Just a guard.
plato		I shot at one of them.
jim		But you didn't hurt anybody.
plato		Those aren't my friends.  Make them go away.
jim		 Ray!  Will you tell these guys to move back?
jim		 Plato!  Don't be a fool!
mother		It's Jim!
jim		Plato!
plato		Keep away from me!  I don't believe you anymore!
jim		 But I've got the bullets!  The gun was empty!
jim		Plato?  Plato.  Hey, Jerkpot!
jim		 What did you have to do that for?
father		Let him alone!  He's mine!  I'll take care of him!
ray		It's all right!  It's all right!
father		For a minute...that jacket...I thought...  You did everything a man could do.
father		Stand up, Jim.  I'll stand up with you.  Let me try to be as strong as you want me to be.
jim		He depended on me.
father		And you can depend on me, son. Trust me.  Whatever comes we'll face it together, I swear.
negro woman		 This poor baby got nobody.  Just nobody.
jim		 He was always cold.
jim		Mom--Dad--this is my friend.  Her name is Judy.
****Dialogues from script :Red_Planet.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Red_Riding_Hood.txt****

revised first draft		July 16, 2009
teenage boy		Did you hear that?
fat knight		Hear what? The wolf HOWLS AGAIN. The Boy shivers, fearful.
teenage boy		The innkeeper told me --
fat knight		I know what he told you. He told you about the Wolf. The Beast of Villiers la Croise.  The people of that village have been spreading that nonsense since before you were a tickle in your daddy's prick. I'd give you a whipping for believing it if I thought it would do any good. The Old Knight stares into the fire, then speaks.
old knight		I used to travel these woods. They told the same stories then that they do now. Only I heard them from a man who actually saw the beast with his own eyes.
fat knight		Half the people in these parts claim to have seen it.
old knight		This man claimed it was the last thing he ever saw. The Wolf took his eyes. And half his face.  I saw his scars and empty eye sockets. His skin looked like it was on inside-out. It didn't seem to me like the kind of thing a man would make up a story about. He shrugs. His companions exchange an unnerved look.
fat knight		What the devil are you --?!
teenage boy		Wait, wait! Be quiet! He raises a hand. He's heard something. They listen. FOOTSTEPS. Approaching through the mud. The Boy's hand clutches a dagger, but the Fat Knight reaches out and stays him, terrified. The Boy follows his look. We never get a good look at THE FIGURE walking toward them. But what the men see scares them shitless. It stops near the cart. The men huddle together, watching as it slowly starts to walk around the cart -- -- then suddenly jumps atop it. The Figure is now above them. With each step it takes, the boards of the wooden cart CREAK and bend under its weight. A long beat. Then the Figure jumps down again, landing behind the men, startling them. It pauses. The men cower, shivering... Suddenly, the cart is flipped over as if it weighed nothing, revealing the terrified Knights beneath it. Lightning FLASHES. A shadow falls over them. The men scramble to their feet, but the Old Knight slips in the mud. The Boy stops to help him, but then the Old Knight starts screaming, something GROWLS, and the Boy stops short at what he sees. The Fat Knight runs.
teenage boy		Wait! We have to help him! The Fat Knight ignores him. The Old Knight shrieks. We hear the same TEARING and POPPING that this thing made while eating the horse. The Boy quickly looks around... ... sees a curved Arabian scimitar lying in the mud, fallen from the overturned wagon. He grabs it and as the Fat Knight runs, the Boy stands his ground. He hefts the blade. He's young, but he has used this before. A lot. Rain beats down on his face and lightning FLASHES as he confronts the thing that is devouring the Old Knight.
lucie		Honestly, Isabelle. Just kill it.
isabelle		I can't. It's the fifth commandment. Thou shalt not kill. Lucie rolls her eyes. Isabelle crouches, letting the spider crawl off her hand. She watches it skitter away, then calls to Suzette, feigning nonchalance:
isabelle		I'm going to take Father some water.
suzette		All right. Don't be long. Isabelle smiles, grabs a bucket and ladle, and anxiously heads toward the village. Lucie watches her go, dubious.
carpenter		Hey, there! Let one of these young lads get that for you.
isabelle		I can do it myself. The Carpenter smiles. Of course she can.
isabelle		Mother thought you might be thirsty.
cesaire		That was very thoughtful of her. He gives her a knowing look as he ladles a drink from the bucket. Isabelle's gaze drifts from him to another woodcutter, working off by himself. His name is PETER . He makes eye contact with Isabelle for a moment, then wipes his brow and calls out to the WOODCUTTER BOSS.
peter		I'm taking a break.
woodcutter boss		A break? Does that mean you're going to start working? The other Woodcutters LAUGH. Peter walks away. Isabelle's gaze lingers on him too long. Cesaire notices, not entirely comfortable with what he sees...
peter		I was afraid you weren't coming.
isabelle		You should know better than that.
isabelle		I think my sister's starting to suspect something.
peter		Do you think she'll tell your father?
isabelle		I don't care. I wish she would tell him. I want everyone to know. Besides, my father likes you.
peter		Of course he does. Right up until the point where he figures out what I'm doing with his daughter. Peter glances back and Isabelle follows his look. Through the trees, she sees her father and the group of grim Woodcutters, still in serious conversation.
isabelle		What's going on?
peter		You haven't heard?  Three men. They found them this morning just off the Center Road. At least they think it was three men. There wasn't enough left to piece them back together. A long beat as Isabelle takes this in. Then:
isabelle		Was it the Wolf?
peter		Could it have been anything else? Isabelle shudders. No, it couldn't have been.
peter		We should have killed that monster a long time ago.
isabelle		I know. You say that every month.
isabelle		I'd better go.
peter		Same time tomorrow?
isabelle		Don't get used to this. I start my sewing lessons next week.
peter		You really think you can go all day without seeing me?
isabelle		I'll manage somehow. Pride is a cardinal sin, by the way.
peter		I can think of worse sins I could be committing. She gives a cautioning look, then leaves with a smile.
herald		Half full! Half full!
suzette		You mind your grandmother, understand? You're her student now, the same as the other girls.
isabelle		Yes, Mother. Suzette hands her the basket with a proud look.
suzette		My last baby has grown up.
lucrece		You're only encouraging him.
isabelle		I know. THREE GIRLS . A playful PUPPY tags along. Prudence and Rosemaria look tired, but Roxanne greets Isabelle with a big smile.
isabelle		You look happy.
roxanne		Aren't you excited?
prudence		It's too early to be excited.
roxanne		I'm just trying to look on the bright side.
rosemaria		Well, stop it before somebody hurts you. The girls have a laugh at Roxanne's expense.
prudence		Did you hear about her and the Darley brothers?
isabelle		Oh, no! Which one?
prudence		Both! On the same night! Isabelle gives an incredulous look and Prudence tries to contain her laughter. Rosemaria hears and looks back at them. She scowls at Isabelle.
rosemaria		Why does your grandmother have to live so far away?
isabelle		What's the matter, Rosemaria? Having trouble walking? Prudence laughs. Roxanne frowns, disapproving. Rosemaria shoots Isabelle a dirty look.
grandmother		Well, stop dawdling. Come on, come on. The girls hurry inside, but Grandmother stops Isabelle.
grandmother		Your mother has warned you not to expect any special treatment from me?
isabelle		Yes, ma'am. Grandmother eyes her a moment longer, then breaks into a smile and surreptitiously hands her a bright red apple.
grandmother		Well, then your mother doesn't know me very well, does she? Isabelle smiles as Grandmother ushers her inside.
grandmother		There. This is going to be my foundation. Everything I do now will build off of this. She shows the row of stitches to Roxanne.
grandmother		Roxanne, is this a good foundation?
roxanne		I don't know.
grandmother		Why not?
roxanne		Well... you haven't told us what you're making.
grandmother		There's something else I haven't told you. I haven't told you why I'm making it. Before you begin any task, you must first always ask yourself why.
rosemaria		Why? The girls laugh. Grandmother gives her a patient smile.
grandmother		Because understanding why you are doing something is the key to doing it successfully. So, before we begin today, let's be certain that we have a good foundation. Who can tell me why you are here?
prudence		To become seamstresses. To learn how to sew and mend clothes.
grandmother		That's what you are doing. But why are you doing it? Blank looks. None of them have ever considered this.
grandmother		Isabelle, your sister studied with me last winter. What does she do now?
isabelle		She works with the women.
grandmother		Why don't you work with them?
isabelle		I don't know how to yet.
grandmother		And how does that make you feel? Isabelle thinks for a moment, then has an insight.
isabelle		Like a child. Grandmother gives her a smile, then continues.
grandmother		You will be coming here every day for the next three months. During that time, I will teach you everything you need to know to be productive members of our community. But there is something far more important that will also be happening here. All the girls are paying close attention now, but Grandmother seems to be speaking directly to Isabelle.
grandmother		You will be proving your worth and learning your place in the world. And I promise you, when you leave here for the last time, you will never feel like a child again.
peter		I need to talk to you. Isabelle turns to face him, trying to stay nonchalant.
isabelle		What about? Peter just looks at her for a beat. Isabelle turns and sees that the other girls have stopped to watch. Isabelle shoots them a look. The girls take the hint and leave. When they've gone, Peter walks up to Isabelle.
peter		When were you planning on telling me?
isabelle		Telling you what?
peter		That you're engaged to be married to Henri Smith. Isabelle gapes at him, stunned and confused.
isabelle		Henri Smith? Is this a joke?
peter		Look at me. Just look at me and tell me you didn't know. She looks at him and sees it in his eyes. He's serious.
isabelle		Who told you this?
peter		Your father. Off Isabelle's look...
suzette		It's all been arranged. Your marriage to Henri will settle our debt to his father. Isabelle nods, shaken. Cesaire sees that she's upset.
suzette		We know that you and Peter have become friends. But you have adult responsibilities now. That means putting your family's interests ahead of your own.
isabelle		So Henri Smith is in the family's interest and Peter is not?
cesaire		Peter is a fine young man.
isabelle		But what? He's poor? He's an orphan?
suzette		He's not one of us. His parents were outsiders.
isabelle		Why? Because they hadn't lived here since Noah built the ark?
suzette		You mind your tongue. Isabelle is about to respond, when she notices something. Lucie is crying. A beat. Lucie looks up at her parents.
lucie		Do you realize how this makes me look? I'm older than her by more than a year. If anyone should be getting married in the spring, it's me. Everyone is taken aback. Lucie storms out of the cottage, angrily wiping tears. Isabelle watches her go.
cesaire		This was your idea. Now I have both of them hating me. In the loft, Isabelle and Lucie are in bed... but Isabelle only pretends to be asleep so she can eavesdrop.
suzette		We knew Isabelle was going to be stubborn. It wouldn't be like her to simply do as she's told. She's too much like her grandmother.
cesaire		That she is. What about Lucie?
suzette		She's a good girl, but she's still a child. Talk to her. You're her father. She'll listen to you. Isabelle glances over at Lucie... and sees that she's been eavesdropping, too. Lucie turns away, embarrassed. Isabelle gives her a sad look.
henri		Hello, Isabelle.
isabelle		Hello, Henri.
henri		So I suppose you've heard.
isabelle		Yes. My parents are very pleased.
henri		And you? Are you pleased?
isabelle		It's a very generous arrangement.
henri		Do you have any other feelings about it? About me?
isabelle		I'm not sure. We've never really talked that much.
henri		I know. That's why I asked you to walk with me. I wanted to talk.
isabelle		What for?
henri		Well... because we're going to be husband and wife soon.
isabelle		Not until the spring festival. That's months away. A lot can happen in a few months. Henri seems disappointed. She sees this and reconsiders.
isabelle		All right. What would you like to talk about?
henri		I'm not really sure. I brought you this. He reaches into his pocket and offers Isabelle a flower. She takes it, suddenly blushing. But just then, she sees Peter walking toward them with another WOODCUTTER.
isabelle		Well, I'm glad we had this conversation. Isabelle abruptly turns and walks away, leaving Henri surprised and a little hurt. She passes Peter, her eyes averted. He glances back at her as she and walks away...
suzette		You know, I had a sweetheart when I was your age, too. Isabelle looks up, intrigued in spite of herself. Suzette smiles slyly at her reaction.
isabelle		What happened?
suzette		Nothing happened. My parents arranged for me to marry your father and that was the end of that.
isabelle		Didn't you want to marry your sweetheart?
suzette		Of course, I did. But there's more to marriage than being in love. Love doesn't always last and it certainly doesn't fill your children's bellies in the winter.
isabelle		You've never wished you could have married that other boy?
suzette		Not even once. Isabelle eyes her, still uncertain.
peter		We need to talk.
peter		You have to go through with it. You have to marry Henri.
isabelle		I don't care what my parents want. They don't own me. I love you.
peter		That doesn't matter.
isabelle		It does to me. Doesn't it matter to you?
peter		It's not our decision to make.
isabelle		You sound like my mother.
peter		Then maybe you should start listening to your mother.  It's over. They had to find out eventually. Don't turn this into something that it's not. We had our fun, but that's all it ever was. Isabelle looks up at him, shocked and confused.
isabelle		I don't believe you.
peter		Go home, Isabelle. Go home and grow up. Isabelle gapes at him. Peter walks away.
isabelle		I don't believe you! He doesn't look back. She watches him go, heartbroken.
herald		Full moon! Full moon! Full moon!
cesaire		This doesn't concern you, Isabelle.
isabelle		Yes, Father. Isabelle reluctantly turns and walks away. The girls follow her. Roxanne gives Lucie a concerned look.
roxanne		What's wrong with Lucie?
rosemaria		How would you feel if you were in love with your sister's fiance? Isabelle stops short and gives Rosemaria a sharp look.
isabelle		Lucie is not in love with my fiance.
rosemaria		Really? So she's just had a crush on him since she was ten?
isabelle		As if she would really tell you something like that.
rosemaria		She didn't. She told my sister.  Did you honestly not know? Isabelle clearly had no idea, but tries to hide it. Just then, they walk by the blacksmith's shop where Henri works with his father, ADRIEN. Henri smiles at Isabelle.
isabelle		Come on. We're going to be late. She turns away. Rosemaria gives her a smug look.
roxanne		Rosemaria...? The other girls stop and hurry back to the fork, dismayed to find Rosemaria headed down the overgrown path.
isabelle		What are you doing?
rosemaria		What does it look like?
isabelle		You can't go that way. You have to stay on the path.
rosemaria		This way is faster.
prudence		But it's not safe. My brother says the bridge is rotten.
rosemaria		I don't care. It's bad enough working all day in that smelly cottage. It's not reasonable for them to expect us to walk that far every day on top of that. She walks away, defiant. The girls look nervous. Then:
prudence		If you get lost, nobody will come looking for you. Not tonight. This last part gives Rosemaria pause. She looks down the narrow path. It suddenly seems a little ominous. Grudgingly, she returns to the group. The other girls exchange quiet looks of relief. They continue on. The wind blows leaves across the abandoned path...
grandmother		Everyone finish what you're working on. Your parents will be worried if you're not home before it starts to get dark. The girls begin packing up their work. Prudence sighs.
prudence		I wish someone would just kill that stupid wolf.
roxanne		You can't just kill it. It's not an ordinary wolf. It's a devil- wolf. A servant of Satan himself. Prudence rolls her eyes. Whatever.
rosemaria		Who cares what it is? It's only one night a month. You stay inside, lock up the animals, and you don't go into the forest. It's never killed anyone from the village and as long as we leave it alone, it never will.
grandmother		My goodness. I had no idea our young people were so woefully uneducated these days.  Our village was not always like this. When I was young, this was a very special place. Traders and merchants came here from lands I'd never heard of selling things I had never seen. King Philip the Bold even visited here once. But that, of course, was before the Wolf came. The girls listen attentively.
grandmother		Your parents fear the Wolf because they remember when it did kill people from the village. Break down doors in the middle of the night and snatch children right out of their beds. Rumors began to spread that we were cursed. That was when our village began to die. And that was why my husband led a group of men into the woods to kill the Wolf. But instead, it killed him. Isabelle reacts. She has never heard this story before.
grandmother		After that, people here didn't have much stomach to go hunting for it anymore. But something had changed. The Wolf stopped killing in the village. Even our livestock were usually safe as long as they were brought inside. So we decided it was safer to compromise. We gave the Wolf its one night a month, the night of the full moon, and it has left us alone ever since.
isabelle		People still die.
rosemaria		Yes, but nobody we know.
grandmother		Everyone knows what should be done. But it's not always easy to do what you know is right. Sometimes it's easier to settle for being safe. Isabelle frowns, unsatisfied.
isabelle		You were right. About Peter. I was being childish.
suzette		You'll do as you're told. It's all been arranged.
isabelle		The family gains the same no matter which one of us marries him. And I don't love Henri. Lucie does. Lucie looks up, surprised to be dragged into this.
isabelle		She's right. It's not fair. I will gladly trade places with her. A beat. Then, without looking up, Lucie whispers:
lucie		Shut up. Isabelle is stung, the smile wiped from her face.
isabelle		I'm sorry... I...
lucie		Please. Just shut up and mind your own business. A tense beat. Isabelle looks away, hurt and confused.
boy		I'm the Wolf! I'm going to eat you up!
grandmother		What on earth --? The Young Man glances at Isabelle. Something about the look in his eyes makes Isabelle go pale...
grandmother		It's my little secret. A pinch will help you rest. A little more and you'll sleep through the end of the world. Grandmother smiles. Isabelle smiles back, weak.
isabelle		I think I'd like that.
merchant		She had it coming, if you ask me. What the hell was she doing out there? Then they notice that Isabelle is right behind them, drawing a water from the well. Both men shift uncomfortably, but she pretends she didn't hear.
isabelle		What is it?
grandmother		Nothing. Grandmother curtly wraps what she's found in a washcloth.
father auguste		Wherefore each man and woman that is wise, make him ready thereto; for we all shall die, and we know not how soon...
marguerite		Take your brother home. Embarrassed, Roxanne quickly grabs Claude and drags him away, but he fights her, crying and kicking. Isabelle's family is met by Henri and his father, Adrien.
adrien		She was a good girl. We all loved her. He's looking at Cesaire and shakes his hand, but he briefly glances at Suzette. Isabelle notices the look, but then she spots Peter leaving the church. She makes brief eye contact with him before Henri interrupts.
henri		I'm here for you, too. But her gaze follows Peter as he walks away...
cesaire		A line has been crossed. The beast must be destroyed!
merchant		Your daughter crossed the line. She went into the woods.
cesaire		She was taken. She must have been!
merchant		So the Wolf broke into your home and stole your daughter without waking anyone or leaving any sign at all?
reeve		It's been almost thirty years since someone here was killed by the Wolf. We've left it alone. Why would it suddenly come and take one of us now? Grandmother gathers her nerve and stands up.
grandmother		I know something. Cesaire and Suzette give Grandmother surprised looks. She walks up to the table and hands Attewater the wadded up washcloth we saw her with earlier.
grandmother		I found this. I believe it must belong to her attacker. Attewater unfolds the washcloth. There are a few strands of hair inside. He gives her a sharp look.
attewater		This is not animal hair.
grandmother		No, it isn't. It's human. A stunned silence comes over the room.
attewater		No man could have done the things that were done to your granddaughter. It must have been the Wolf.
grandmother		Yet she was holding a man's hair in her hand when she died.
attewater		What are you suggesting?
grandmother		That the man and the Wolf may be one and the same. A low MURMUR works its way through the crowd.
attewater		A werewolf.
father auguste		It would explain much. The Pope himself has declared that such creatures exist. The thought gives everyone pause.
merchant		Even if you're right, it doesn't help us. The woods are filled with hermits and strangers. If there's a werewolf among them, how will we find it?
attewater		There are experts in these matters. Men who find and try witches and werewolves. We could request the Church to send someone. Grandmother gives him a sharp look.
grandmother		Not someone. You're talking about Father Solomon. This sends a ripple of comment through the room.
attewater		He is the Church's most successful werewolf hunter.
adrien		But what of his methods? The man once burned down an entire village just to root out one witch.
attewater		Unsubstantiated rumors. The Church has appointed him the Witchfinder General of all Christendom.
father auguste		That is also unsubstantiated. Attewater eyes him, but Father Auguste stands his ground.
attewater		I have the utmost confidence in the ability of the Witchfinder General to determine the nature of the beast and put an end to it. I will dispatch a messenger in the morning.
cesaire		Even if Father Solomon agrees to help us, it will take weeks for him to get here. That means another full moon. Maybe two. We must defend ourselves. A long, silent beat. Then, Henri stands.
henri		He's right. The beast broke the peace, not us.
reeve		As will I. We all will. Henri is nervous, but tries to appear brave for Isabelle.
suzette		Who gave you permission to wear that?
isabelle		Nobody. I just --
suzette		Your Grandmother made that for Lucie. Take it off. Isabelle hesitates, then does as she's told. Suzette snatches the cloak away from her. A beat.
isabelle		It was folded when they found her. Her clothes, too. Did you notice that?
suzette		Someone must have folded them. A beat. Isabelle is reluctant to voice her thoughts...
isabelle		She was so unhappy. Suzette turns, her eyes narrowing dangerously.
suzette		What are you saying?
isabelle		Maybe she went into the woods on purpose. Maybe she wanted to die. Suddenly: Suzette slaps her across the face. Hard.
suzette		Lucie's soul is at peace with God. Don't you ever again suggest otherwise. Suzette turns away in tears. Isabelle is stunned speechless.
peter		Are you all right?
isabelle		I'm sorry. I just need to talk to someone. Can I come in? Peter balks. Just then, a figure appears. Isabelle can't believe her eyes... It's Rosemaria. She's standing behind Peter, but it's clear that she's naked.
rosemaria		No. You can't. She wraps an arm around Peter's waist. Isabelle gives him a stricken look and runs away. Peter watches her go.
isabelle		I hate the cold. Why can't we have lessons in the summer?
grandmother		I suppose that would be easier. But then that would defeat the purpose. People only change when things are difficult. Isabelle gives her a look, understanding, then turns away. Grandmother puts a hand on her shoulder and then leaves her alone. Isabelle stares into the fire...
marguerite		I caught the little bastard watching us!
roxanne		Watching what? Just then, the Merchant enters from the bedroom, adjusting his clothes. He hesitates when he sees Roxanne, then drops a handful of coins on the table and leaves. Marguerite puts the coins in a leather purse. Roxanne glares at her.
marguerite		It's money, isn't it? You could make twice this your first time. They pay more for virgins. Roxanne recoils in disgust and storms out in tears.
adrien		Don't do this for Isabelle. She can't marry you if you're dead.
adrien		Your mother would be proud to see the man you've become. Henri is moved. He nods, at a loss for words.
cesaire		My father died trying to kill the Wolf. For forty years, we have lived in fear of it. But no more. And never again. We don't need a Witchfinder General to rid of us this hell-hated beast. Because by God and all that is holy, the Beast of Villiers la Croise shall die tonight! The men CHEER.
henri		You're not coming with us?
peter		Are you joking? These fools are as likely to kill each other as they are anything else. Henri shoots him an angry look before moving on. Isabelle and Suzette say goodbye to Cesaire. Isabelle sees Peter through the crowd and quickly looks away. Just then, Henri and Adrien pass by. On impulse, Isabelle runs up and kisses Henri on the mouth. When she's sure that Peter has seen this, she quickly walks away. Henri gives Peter a gloating look. Peter scowls.
cesaire		Get that torch out. Henri douses his torch.
reeve		Who was that screaming?
carpenter		I don't know.
merchant		Look. He's gone pale. The others follow his look. There's a LARGE PAW PRINT in the snow. The Men stare at it. Suddenly, the same SCREAM pierces the night, this time coming from deeper in the woods. The Men exchange a wary look, but then start after it.
reeve		Which way did it go? The Merchant points a trembling finger. The Reeve plunges into the brush after it and the Men follow.
carpenter		The caves. It's in the caves.
reeve		Split up. Two groups. Half the Men take one fork, half the other. We follow the Reeve's group down a narrowing passageway. The Men crowd together, hunched low. The SCREAMS seem to be getting louder. The Reeve stops, listening. He turns toward a low crack in the cave wall. The SCREAMS are coming from inside. He shines his torch inside, lowers his head, and walks toward it. The cave
isabelle		I heard your father wounded the beast. He was a brave man.
henri		Did you hear what it did to him? It chewed off his private parts. Isabelle had not heard this. Henri doesn't stop working.
henri		And I did nothing. I was too scared. I couldn't move. I just let my father be eaten alive. She moves toward him, but he shrugs her away.
henri		No. I don't want you here. Isabelle gives him a sad look, then leaves. Henri just keeps hammering away on the anvil.
lucrece		I thought your mother would be here. They used to be quite close. Isabelle gives her a sharp look, but Lucrece says nothing more. Isabelle looks down at the coffin with a sudden realization...
isabelle		You told me you had a sweetheart before you were married. It was Henri's father, wasn't it?
isabelle		Lucie was in love with Henri. She could have married him.  Couldn't she have?
suzette		We arranged for you to marry him.
isabelle		But you gained the same no matter which one of us married him. So why did it have to be me?
suzette		I think you know the answer to that question.
isabelle		No. You say it. Suzette's eyes well up. Then:
suzette		Lucie was Henri's half-sister. She was not your father's daughter. Isabelle suddenly looks ill. Reluctant, she asks:
isabelle		Am I? Do you even know?
suzette		Yes. I was already pregnant when your father and I married.
isabelle		Does he know?
suzette		No. And he must never know. Tears spill down Isabelle's cheeks. She walks away.
suzette		Isabelle!
grandmother		I've found that there's no burden that doesn't at least seem a little lighter on a full stomach.
isabelle		I don't know what to do. She wants me to pretend like I don't know. How am I supposed to go on living in that house?
grandmother		You have a right to be angry with her. But try not to hate her. Too much hate will eat you alive. Isabelle nods and rests her head on Grandmother's shoulder.
cesaire		You're a good girl. Isabelle allows a sad smile, places his hand back on his chest, and leaves.
prudence		I heard there's going to be a festival on the night of the next full moon. To celebrate.
roxanne		A festival? I've never been to one!
prudence		My father says he hasn't seen one since he was a boy.
roxanne		It's strange, isn't it? You think because things have been a certain way your whole life that they'll always be the same. Then overnight everything just changes. But Isabelle is distracted. Amidst the morning bustle, she sees Rosemaria laughing with Peter. Roxanne notices. Just then, they hear HORSES approaching. A lot of them. Everyone stops what they're doing, listening, suddenly apprehensive. The girls turn toward the sound and see... ... A DOZEN SOLDIERS in identical armor, silver helmets gleaming in the sun, riding into the square atop armored steeds. The Villagers gape at them in awe. The Soldiers ride escort to a WHITE COACH with a red cross on it, drawn by two horses: one white, one black. A FIGURE rides inside, cloaked in darkness. Isabelle gives it an uneasy look. Leading the Soldiers is the CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD, his helmet adorned with a blood-red plume. He brings the caravan to a halt in front of the Merchant's shop.
captain		This is Villiers la Croise?
merchant		Yes, my lord.
captain		Summon your bailiff. My master would speak with him at once.
merchant		Of course, my lord. May I ask to what does he owe this honor?
captain		He requested the services of His Eminence, the Witchfinder General. You may tell him that he has arrived. All eyes turn to the figure in the coach. Only a bejeweled hand is visible, resting on the coach's window.
attewater		This is indeed an honor, Your Eminence. Solomon makes no response. His eyes are on the severed wolf's head on display. Attewater smiles proudly.
attewater		As you can see, our werewolf problem has been dealt with.
solomon		That is no werewolf. Surprise and outrage ripple through the crowd. Isabelle and Roxanne exchange a shocked look.
solomon		When a werewolf dies, it returns to its human form. If what you killed was a werewolf, then you would have a human head skewered atop that pole.
reeve		And I suppose you've seen this? A wolf turning into a man?
solomon		My wife's name was Pnlope. She was very pretty. And we were very happy. The Reeve tries to keep the confusion off his face. Attewater and Father Auguste exchange uncertain looks.
solomon		We lived in a village not unlike this place. And not unlike this place, our village was plagued by a werewolf. I went out with some men to hunt it. It never even occurred to me that we might actually find it. But we did. He has everyone's attention now. All eyes are on him.
solomon		It attacked me. All I saw were yellow teeth. I hacked at it with an axe and suddenly it was gone. There was blood on my axe. I had cut off one of its paws. I picked it up and put it in my sack.
solomon		Her name was Pnlope. She was very pretty. And we were very happy. Until the day I killed her. Solomon turns and gives Attewater a hard look.
solomon		Your werewolf is still alive. And I promise you, it will kill again.
solomon		I have examined the body of your blacksmith. There were bruises on his neck from where the beast held him in its jaws, squeezing his throat so that he could not scream.
cesaire		But he did scream. We all heard him.
solomon		Only when it wanted you to. It used him as bait to lure you into the bit of theater it had prepared.
henri		Theater? My father is not playacting. He is dead.
reeve		And I killed the beast that did it.
solomon		That's what it wants you to think. It did kill your blacksmith. But the animal that you killed was not the werewolf.
reeve		There was blood dripping from its teeth.
solomon		The blood was its own. The werewolf most likely wounded it earlier in the evening and left it in the cave for you to find and kill.
cesaire		'Most likely,' he says. Have you ever heard anything more unlikely in your lives?
attewater		Your Eminence, if what you say is true, that we were somehow fooled by this thing, it could not have done so without foreknowledge of our plan to hunt it.
solomon		That's correct. The werewolf does not live in the forest as you have rather navely assumed. It lives here in the village. Among you. There is a moment of shocked silence. Then mounting anger. Cesaire stands up and gestures to Henri.
cesaire		You come here and tell us that this boy's father died for nothing. You accuse us and call us fools. Well, I believe what I can see with my own eyes. That wolf is dead. And I know it's dead because I was with the brave men who killed it.
merchant		And what of the festival?
attewater		The festival was to celebrate the death of the Wolf.
merchant		And we say that it's dead! We've spent every full moon for the past forty years cowering in our homes. We've earned a celebration.
reeve		And paid for it in blood! Attewater gives Solomon a nervous look. Solomon shrugs.
solomon		Have your festival. I will stay on here until then to ensure that you have the celebration you all so richly deserve. The Villagers seem appeased, especially the smug Merchant. A look passes between Solomon and his Captain. Isabelle catches it... and finds it unsettling.
solomon		Gloria Patri, et Filio, et Spiritui Sancto. Sicut erat in principio, et nunc, et sempter, et in saecula saeculorum. Amen.
isabelle		I'm going to the festival.
suzette		All right then. She doesn't look up from her knitting. Isabelle leaves.
roxanne		I'm sorry...
prudence		She acts more like a mother to him than a sister.
isabelle		Someone has to look after him.
prudence		I know. But who looks after her? Isabelle gives Roxanne a sad look.
peter		Take it easy, friend.
henri		You didn't come with us. The night my father died. Peter's smile fades. Isabelle rushes to pull Henri away.
henri		You stayed here and let real men do the work you didn't have the belly for.
isabelle		Please, don't do this -- Henri brushes her aside, but too hard and she stumbles. Peter instantly grabs hold of Henri's wrist. Henri
isabelle		Peter! Wait!
peter		Why? So you can hit me, too?
isabelle		I just want to make sure you're all right. Peter stops. He whirls on Isabelle, incredulous.
peter		Why can't you just leave me alone?
isabelle		You're bleeding.
peter		So what? What's the matter with you? What do I have to do to make you stop caring about me? Isabelle is taken aback. A beat.
isabelle		You think I want to feel like this? You think I enjoy feeling like a fool every day because I can't stop loving you? Peter's bravado falters. He can't completely hide what her words do to him. She looks up at him, realizing...
isabelle		Why are you with Rosemaria? You hate Rosemaria.
peter		I don't have to like her to get what I want from her.
isabelle		You're a terrible liar. Isabelle takes a step closer and presses the palm of her hand against his chest. A beat.
isabelle		There. You're heart is starting to beat faster. And the little black circles in the middle of your eyes still get bigger when I touch you. She gazes up at him. He tries not to look in her eyes, but can't stop himself.
isabelle		You can tell me you don't love me, but I know what you're really feeling. I can feel it with my hand and see it with my eyes. Peter hesitates, then covers her hand with his own.
peter		I thought being with Rosemaria would be the one thing you would never be able to forgive. I wanted you to hate me.  Isabelle, you are the best thing that could ever happen to me. And I am the worst thing that could ever happen to you.
isabelle		How could you think that?
peter		I wasn't born here. You and I both know what that means. I will always be a stranger to these people. Your parents will never let us be together.
isabelle		That means less to me now than ever. We can leave here. We can go someplace where we'll both be strangers.
peter		I can't let you do that. You have something here that I will never have. You have a place. You have
isabelle		The only life I want is with you.
peter		Isabelle... I'm wrong for you.
isabelle		I know you are. I just don't care. She kisses him on the mouth, then quickly steps back, as if she did it before she could change her mind. Then he takes her in his arms and they kiss, long and hard.
isabelle		I don't want to wait.
peter		But not like this.
peter		I can pack the cart tonight and we can leave in the morning.  Is that too soon?
isabelle		It's not soon enough. She pulls him to her and kisses him.
peter		You'd better get back before someone misses you. She gives him a lingering kiss. When she pulls away from him, he sees that she's crying.
peter		What's wrong?
isabelle		This feels like a dream. I'm afraid if I leave you I might wake up. He kisses her and holds her tight. Neither of them notice Henri, angrily watching from the shadows...
isabelle		I've never seen it full before... Suddenly -- the CHURCH BELLS start to ring. Everyone falls silent. Confused looks all around. Then, somewhere in the dark... ... a WOLF HOWLS. The Villagers gasp. A WOMAN screams. People start to panic. Claude is knocked down.
roxanne		Claude! Then something massive pushes its way through the surging crowd, bursting from the darkness... It's THE WOLF. The Villagers gape in horror. It makes the wolf that they killed look like a chihuahua. But there's something about its face that isn't canine at all, but ghoulishly human as it HOWLS at the moon. Suddenly, a group of Villagers throw off their cloaks, revealing themselves to be Solomon's armored Soldiers. Each of them draws a gleaming sword and points it at the Wolf. They've been lying in wait and now they have it surrounded. The Wolf SNARLS at them.
solomon		Get to the church, you fools! The Wolf SNARLS up at him. Solomon gives a battle cry:
roxanne		Where's Claude? Where is he?!
roxanne		Claude! Claude! Roxanne spots Rosemaria and grabs her, begging for help.
roxanne		Have you seen my brother? Please! But Rosemaria just pushes her aside, panicked. An instant later -- the Wolf appears out of nowhere, jumping on Rosemaria. She screams, then -- CRUNCH. The screams stop. Isabelle and Roxanne gape in horror, then run.
roxanne		Claude! Where are you?! Isabelle drags her to the ground and covers her mouth.
isabelle		You have to stop it. He can't hear you and you are going to get us killed. Do you understand me? Roxanne nods, crying. Isabelle helps her up -- and finds herself face-to-face with the Wolf. Roxanne screams. They run back the way they came, turn another corner --
isabelle		Come on! Isabelle climbs the wall, but Roxanne's not going to make it. Isabelle jumps down to help her... ... just as the Wolf's shadow falls over the alley. The girls watch helplessly as the Wolf slowly walks toward them, SNARLING and glaring at them with its strange, near- human eyes. Then, inexplicably... the Wolf speaks.
the wolf		Well, well. You look very pretty this evening, my dear. Good enough to eat. The Wolf's voice is sonorous, seductive. The Devil's voice. Isabelle stammers, unable to believe her senses.
the wolf		It's considered polite to thank someone when they pay you a compliment. Are you being impolite, Isabelle?
isabelle		How do you know me? Who are you?
roxanne		Isabelle...? The Wolf GROWLS, cutting her off, and turns back to Isabelle. It moves closer. Isabelle looks into its eyes. They suddenly seem very big and deep, almost hypnotizing. She seems to fall into them...
isabelle		What big eyes you have...
the wolf		The better to see you with, my dear.
isabelle		Are you going to kill us?
the wolf		Kill you? Why would I kill you?
isabelle		Then what do you want?
the wolf		I want you, Isabelle. Isabelle gapes, dumbstruck and dismayed.
the wolf		We are the same, you and I. We are both wild things. You show one face to the world, but there is another face that you hide. A fire burning inside you, waiting to be released. The Wolf sniffs her, starting at her feet and working its way up. It SNARLS with satisfaction, savoring her scent.
the wolf		Yes. I can smell it on you even now. Suddenly, the Wolf jumps onto its hind legs, puts its forepaws on the wall on either side of Isabelle, its muzzle only inches from her face. She recoils.
the wolf		Leave with me tonight. Run with me. The only shackles binding you are of your own making. Slip them and I can show you the world and every pleasure in it. Isabelle hesitates, then finds the strength to speak:
isabelle		I don't know who you are, but we are not the same. I would rather die than go with you.
the wolf		What about your fat friend here? Do you think she would rather die?  Come away with me. Or I will kill her. And I will keep killing until you agree to leave with me. Suddenly, the sound of MEN SHOUTING. The Wolf leans in, SNARLING. Isabelle turns away from its foul breath.
the wolf		Choose now. Quickly. Isabelle trembles. She looks down at Roxanne's terrified face, torn. Isabelle closes her eyes. She can't do it.
the wolf		Your silence has doomed them all. Just then, Solomon and two Soldiers turn the corner. The Wolf leaps atop the wall and growls down at Isabelle:
the wolf		Come the next full moon, their blood will be on your hands. Then it jumps over the wall. Solomon scrabbles up after it, but the Wolf is already too far away. It looks back at him. A silent challenge passes between them. And then the Wolf is gone.
solomon		We are safe here. God protects his own house and those within it. Isabelle finds Prudence.
isabelle		Is Peter here?
prudence		Peter? I don't think so.
isabelle		What about Claude? Or my parents?
prudence		I haven't seen any of them.
isabelle		Would you look for them? Please? Prudence nods and rushes off. Roxanne slumps in a corner, a dazed look on her face. A beat.
roxanne		You talked to it.
isabelle		It talked to us. A chill runs down Roxanne's spine. A long beat.
roxanne		No. It only growled.  You heard it talk to you? Isabelle doesn't know what to say. She glances around to see if anyone has overheard. Then:
isabelle		Do not speak of this to anyone. Roxanne nods, but eyes Isabelle warily. Isabelle turns away, afraid and confused.
isabelle		Mother! Father!
isabelle		Is she dead?
cesaire		No, thank God.
father auguste		This man is alive!
solomon		Are you bitten? Shivering, the Soldier nods. The Captain closes his eyes. Solomon stands and turns to Father Auguste.
solomon		Step back. Confused, Father Auguste does as he's told. Then, before anyone can react, Solomon draws his sword and plunges it into the Soldier's heart. Everyone startles.
solomon		The werewolf's bite is the same as death to a man. Stunned silence. Solomon turns to the Villagers.
solomon		The dark days have returned to your village. Your homes are no longer safe. The Wolf will return. Again and again. And it will not stop until it has sucked the marrow from all your bones. Unless you stop it.
solomon		It appears my expertise is not as appreciated as I was led to believe. He turns to leave. Suddenly, Attewater steps forward.
attewater		Wait! Attewater drops to one knee. Solomon stops and gives him an appraising look. Then Solomon turns to the Villagers. After a moment, the Reeve drops to his knee. One by one, the Villagers kneel to Solomon. Henri and Father Auguste are among the last, but they reluctantly kneel as well.
attewater		We will do what must be done. A beat. Then Solomon offers his hand. Attewater kisses Solomon's ring. Henri and Roxanne exchange uneasy looks.
peter		I was up all night worrying about you. Thank God you're safe. But something about her expression gives him pause. She looks up at him, struggling with what she has to say.
isabelle		Peter... My mother's hurt. I can't leave. Not now.
peter		I thought you didn't want to wait.
isabelle		I don't have any choice. It's not just my mother. Something else happened last night. 
isabelle		I meant everything I said. This isn't what I wanted.
peter		Of course not. You'd better go home and see to your mother. She gives him a sad nod, then turns to go. She pauses at the door, but he doesn't look at her. She leaves.
solomon		Silver. This is our most potent weapon. One blow will kill it.
attewater		If it's that powerful, how can we possibly hope to stop it?
solomon		We must find it in its human form. Who among you do you suspect? Attewater and Father Auguste trade uncomfortable looks. Neither of them wants to speak up first.
solomon		It has not survived this long by being obvious. The signs will be subtle. Insomnia. Restlessness. Strange behavior. Strange smells.  Well, none of them smell good, but we must start somewhere.
father auguste		What about the hair Madame Ordeville found on Lucie's body? It was dark. The person we are looking for must have dark hair.
solomon		Perhaps. Unless it planted the hair to make us think that.
attewater		Yes, it's trying to trick us again. This has been happening for forty years. It must be an old man by now. The hair should have been gray.
solomon		Not necessarily. It may be the child or grandchild of the werewolf that first struck here.
father auguste		The curse is hereditary?
solomon		It is. But it effects men and women differently. A man can inherit the curse. Or he can be turned simply by being bitten. Solomon turns toward the fire and stares into it.
solomon		But women are immune to the werewolf's bite. In order for a woman to be turned, she must inherit the curse. But even then it will lie dormant unless she eats human flesh. Only then will the bite of a male werewolf change her. Only then can she become a werewolf and capable of passing the curse on to her own children.
attewater		But it could be a woman.
solomon		Of course. It could be any one of you. Attewater and Father Auguste exchange a wary look.
isabelle		Has Claude come home?
roxanne		No. Nobody has seen him.
isabelle		He's run away before. He'll be all right. Roxanne nods, unconvinced. Prudence joins them. They all exchange a sad look.
prudence		Well. I suppose this is all of us. The three of them turn and start toward the woods...
grandmother		It talked to you. And you understood it?
isabelle		As clearly as I do you now. Grandmother fixes her with a serious look. A beat.
grandmother		Word of this cannot be allowed to spread. Do you understand me?
isabelle		Roxanne will never speak of it. She won't even talk to me about it. A long beat. Isabelle is working up her nerve. Then:
isabelle		I have to do what it wants.  I have communed with an unholy beast. What does that make me if not cursed?
grandmother		I don't know. But I won't allow you to go with this devil and live as its concubine.
isabelle		But if it comes back for me and I don't go with it, then it will kill again. If I have the power to save even one life, aren't I compelled to do so?
grandmother		This is why it chose you. You're a good girl with a gentle heart. It's using that against you.
isabelle		But how could it? Unless it really does know me? Isabelle and Grandmother exchange an anxious look...
henri		I spoke with your father. I broke off our engagement.  I saw you with Peter. Don't worry, I didn't tell anyone. Isabelle can't hide her shock. She shifts anxiously.
isabelle		What about my family's debt?
henri		I have no interest in ruining your family. I will have you out of love or not at all. Isabelle is dumbfounded. Henri turns and walks away...
prudence		They've caught the werewolf!
prudence		He's been hiding in a hayloft. They caught him trying to steal food.
isabelle		But who is it? An angry crowd has gathered. Solomon's Soldiers are all that's stopping it from turning into a lynch mob. Isabelle finds Roxanne in tears, trying to force her way through the crowd.
isabelle		What's wrong? What's happening? Roxanne doesn't answer, just plunges into the crowd. Isabelle goes in after her. Cesaire tries to stop her.
cesaire		Isabelle! Get away from there! She follows Roxanne to the front of the crowd, just as two Soldiers haul a figure out of a barn -- it's Claude.
roxanne		Claude!!
isabelle		It's not him! It can't be!
lucrece		If he's not the werewolf, then why was he hiding? What's he afraid of? The Soldiers carry Claude off and Roxanne stumbles after them. Isabelle tries to follow, but Cesaire stops her. She can only watch helplessly as Claude is dragged away.
grandmother		The good of the people is the chief law.
attewater		You read Latin.
grandmother		And write. I was studying to be a nun when I met my husband.
attewater		He must have been some man.
grandmother		He was a priest. She grins. Is she being serious? Attewater bristles.
grandmother		You know the boy is innocent. He's being tried because he's different. Because Father Solomon knows he can turn us against him.
attewater		Father Solomon is here to protect us.
grandmother		A wolf hunting sheep picks off the weakest ones first.  This is just the beginning. She enters the manor hall. Attewater watches her go.
solomon		You say you saw the accused perform magic?
lucrece		In broad daylight with my own eyes. Everyone here has seen it.
solomon		So it was common knowledge that the accused was a conjurer?
lucrece		Yes, Your Eminence. I saw it for the Devil's work, but they laughed at me and paid him money. Isabelle and Grandmother exchange a concerned look. Through a SERIES OF CUTS, more witnesses are questioned:
father auguste		shifts uncomfortably as Solomon interrogates him...
solomon		Are you aware that it is the custom of witches and devil worshippers to hold their black sabbaths in cemeteries?
father auguste		Yes, Your Eminence.
solomon		And do you know of their practice of dancing with invisible devils during these rituals?
father auguste		I have heard it said so, yes.
solomon		Is there one here today who you have seen dancing in your cemetery?
father auguste		 Yes. But I don't believe he meant anything by it. It was in jest.
solomon		So you consider the black mass to be a jest? There are suspicious WHISPERS among the Villagers. Father Auguste eyes them nervously. A beat.
father auguste		No, of course not.
solomon		Then point him out. Father Auguste reluctantly points to Claude.
marguerite		Roxanne weeps as her mother testifies against Claude.
solomon		What is your relationship to the accused?
marguerite		I am his mother.
solomon		And where is his father?
marguerite		I don't know, sir.
solomon		Well, what is his name? She pauses. The crowd eyes her, disapproving. A beat.
marguerite		I never learned his name, sir.
solomon		You say a man whose name you cannot recall is the father of your child? What can you tell us about him?
marguerite		Not much, sir. She lowers her eyes, ashamed. Solomon considers her.
solomon		Almost as if it were a dream?  Certain devils called incubi can collect human semen and then transfer it to women as they sleep. A woman who unwittingly conceives in this manner would not be a whore. She would be blameless in the eyes of God.
solomon		You remember almost nothing of the man who impregnated you. Is it not possible that there was no man? That the accused is not the product of your own sin, but the foul offspring of a werewolf whose semen was placed in you by an incubus while you slept?
marguerite		Yes! Yes, I remember now! He came to me in my sleep! It wasn't my fault! God save me, it wasn't my fault! Roxanne buries her face in her hands.
solomon		We have proven here today that behind this veil of feigned idiocy is the fiend that has plagued your village. However, in order for the sentence of death to be carried out, the Church requires either a confession or the testimony of a witness who has seen the accused in his transformed state. Since the accused has refused to confess, this court calls upon its final witness. Isabelle Ordeville. Isabelle is stunned. All eyes turn toward her.
solomon		On the night of the last full moon, you were attacked by the Wolf. You looked it in the eye. And the one thing a werewolf can never change is its eyes.
solomon		Look into his eyes, my child. Do you see the beast in them? Isabelle gives Claude a pitying look. Solomon watches, expectant. Then:
isabelle		It isn't him. It can't be. He was with us when the Wolf attacked. Solomon is taken aback. Surprised MURMURS in the room.
solomon		Is this true? Is there another here who can speak to this?
roxanne		I can! It's true! I saw him!
lucrece		She's his sister! She'll say anything! The suspicious Villagers agree. Roxanne gives Isabelle a desperate look. Then Isabelle spots the Carpenter.
isabelle		He was there! He carried Claude away! He saved his life! Suddenly, all eyes are on the Carpenter. He shrinks back. He glances at his WIFE. She stares at him. Hard.
carpenter		She is mistaken. I did no such thing. Isabelle is shocked. She looks to the other Villagers, but no one will speak up. Solomon frowns.
solomon		Very well. Since no one here can bear witness, we must extort a confession. This court shall reconvene tomorrow at dawn. Solomon leaves. Claude is dragged out of the room by Soldiers. Isabelle gives Grandmother a helpless look.
isabelle		Why wouldn't Father Solomon listen to me? Doesn't he care that Claude isn't guilty?
grandmother		He'd rather let an innocent boy die than risk letting the Wolf go free.
isabelle		But the Wolf is free. And the moon will be full in two days. The full weight of this hits home. Grandmother leans close, lowers her voice.
grandmother		We both know it will be coming for you. You must leave here tomorrow and never return. A long beat. Isabelle reluctantly shakes her head.
isabelle		I cannot leave.
grandmother		You have no choice. The alternative is unthinkable.
isabelle		What is unthinkable is that I should be responsible for the deaths of everyone that I love. I'd rather spend a lifetime of misery than let that happen.
grandmother		The Wolf's sins are on its own twice-damned soul, not yours.
isabelle		But what if it was you it wanted? Would you go with it to save me? Or would you leave me to die? Grandmother doesn't have a fast answer for that. Suddenly, a HIDEOUS, INARTICULATE SCREAM echoes in the night. Isabelle and Grandmother exchange a grave look.
grandmother		Father Solomon. Extorting his confession. Claude's screams sending chills down their spines.
cesaire		You should have condemned him today. At least it would have been quick. Cesaire turns and goes back inside. Isabelle and Grandmother continue to listen.
roxanne		How can you just sit there and listen to this? Marguerite ignores her. Furious, Roxanne stands up and grabs Marguerite's coin purse.
marguerite		Where are you going with that? Roxanne doesn't answer, just pulls on her cloak. Marguerite grabs her, but Roxanne turns and shoves her to the ground. Marguerite starts to get up, but Roxanne snatches a knife from off the table and points it at her.
roxanne		Don't you touch me again. Ever. Roxanne angrily throws the knife aside and leaves.
solomon		Enough of this. Let's eat. He gestures to the Scribe, who hands Attewater a document.
attewater		What is this?
solomon		A statement declaring that you heard the boy confess. All it requires is your signature. Or your mark, if you cannot write.
attewater		But he has not confessed. How could he have? Solomon studies Attewater. A beat. Solomon shrugs.
solomon		Very well. Listen more carefully this time. He gestures for the Soldiers to throw more wood on the fire. The FLAMES leap higher. Attewater goes pale. All he hears are screams. Solomon stands next to the bull. The flames gleam off the brass, casting him in hellfire.
solomon		Listen to how he sings of his love of Satan. How he despairs that he will never again copulate with the dead or sink his teeth into the flesh of pregnant women and eat their unborn children. Attewater gives Solomon a horrified look, suddenly realizing. Father Solomon is insane.
attewater		Stop this.
solomon		No. You stop it.  We both know he is guilty. But I cannot legally execute him without a witness or a confession. Sign this and we have a confession. Attewater glares at Solomon, then angrily signs the document. Solomon gestures to his Soldiers, who open the bull and pull Claude out. Attewater has to look away.
solomon		This is the business of werewolf hunting and you had best develop a stomach for it. Because where there is one werewolf, there are two. And where there are two, there are more.
captain		A girl to see you.
solomon		Well, I've yet to come across a girl I wouldn't at least look at. The Captain ushers Roxanne inside. She meekly steps forward. A beat.
solomon		I assume you came here with a purpose. She hurriedly empties Marguerite's purse on the table in front of Solomon. A mere handful of coins.
roxanne		I would like to bargain for the release of my brother.
solomon		Your brother has just confessed.
roxanne		What? That's not possible!
solomon		It has been witnessed and notarized. He will hang in the morning.
roxanne		I have more than money to offer you. She raises a trembling hand and starts to open her bodice, but Solomon interrupts.
solomon		What do you think you are doing?  Do you have any idea who I am? I am the Witchfinder General. I have fought in the Holy Land. I have waded hip deep in blood and resisted all the temptations of the infidels. And you seek to stay the hand of justice with such a tawdry bribe? Leave here, girl, before I have you whipped. Solomon gestures for the Soldiers and they forcibly drag her away. Roxanne struggles against them.
roxanne		Wait! I have something else! I know the name of a witch! Solomon looks up sharply. The Soldiers stop. Solomon crosses the room and stands glaring down at Roxanne. She cringes. This is the hardest decision of her life...
roxanne		Spare my brother and I will tell you her name.
solomon		How are you acquainted with the accused?
roxanne		We were friends.
solomon		And how long did this friendship last?
roxanne		All my life.
solomon		And in this time, have you ever known the accused to converse with devils?
roxanne		Yes, Your Eminence. On the night of the last full moon, she talked to the werewolf. And later she told me that it also talked to her. Isabelle gives Grandmother a frightened look. Cesaire clenches his fist. Solomon turns to Isabelle.
solomon		What of this? Do you deny having conversed with a werewolf? She looks to Roxanne, who trembles with emotion. Then:
isabelle		No. I do not deny it. The crowd REACTS. Solomon quiets them with a look.
solomon		Describe this encounter.
isabelle		It spoke, just as a man speaks.
solomon		And what was the nature of your conversation with it? Isabelle hesitates. Grandmother holds her breath.
isabelle		It told me... It promised to leave here and never return. But only if I leave with it. Roxanne gives her a stunned look. A heavy silence falls over the room. Even Solomon is surprised. Then:
reeve		But who is it? Make her tell us who the werewolf is!
isabelle		I don't know! I swear I don't know!
merchant		It doesn't matter who it is anymore. It wants her, not us. Let's just give it what it wants. A long, tense beat. Heavy silence. Nobody speaks.
father auguste		We should not allow ourselves to even consider this.
reeve		I think we already are.
grandmother		What's the matter with you? You know her. You all know her.
reeve		Do we? Did we know she could talk to werewolves?
grandmother		She could have run away. She could saved herself, but she stayed here because she cares more about you than she does herself.
merchant		If she stayed, she did so because she is in league with it. Let this be her punishment. The crowd loudly AGREES. Solomon considers. Grandmother gives Attewater a dark look. Then:
solomon		Very well. Isabelle Ordeville, in light of your willing confession, it is the decision of this court that on the night of the next full moon, you be left to the mercy of the werewolf. Cesaire silently buries his face in his hands.
henri		No! Henri bursts to his feet, turning heads. Isabelle is led away. Roxanne can only watch, helpless and ashamed.
lucrece		The first victim was her sister. The second was her fiance's father. Then Rosemaria, who everyone knows she hated. And don't forget her mother, with half her face missing. All this death around one girl... Prudence has heard enough. She turns away.
roxanne		I'm here for my brother. He gestures. Roxanne turns... and sees Claude's body dangling from a makeshift gallows. He's been hanged.
grandmother		I'm not going to let these worthless shits sacrifice you to save themselves. We have to find the real werewolf before tomorrow night.
isabelle		That's impossible. Even Father Solomon doesn't have the first clue.
grandmother		Father Solomon doesn't know the things that I know.  I am the oldest person in this village who was here when the Wolf first came. I remember the old days. And what is happening now is much worse.
isabelle		What was it like in the old days?
grandmother		The Wolf never used to attack in the open like it did at the festival. It's a coward at heart. It would kill whole families in their homes, but it always stayed in the shadows. It never would have shown itself in the old days.
isabelle		It's grown bold.
grandmother		Or perhaps it made a mistake.
isabelle		But who would want to kill Lucie?
grandmother		Your parents said that the Wolf broke into the house and took Lucie. We both know that's not true. What really happened? Isabelle hesitates, reluctant.
isabelle		My mother made me swear I would never speak of it.
grandmother		Why would you think such a thing?
isabelle		She was in love with Henri.
grandmother		She took her own life over a boy?
isabelle		What other explanation is there? Grandmother thinks. The pieces are fitting together...
grandmother		Hello, Henri.
grandmother		You spoke up very loudly in Isabelle's defense today. That was very brave.
henri		I just said what I felt.
grandmother		You're under no obligation to stand in her defense. You broke off your engagement to her.
henri		I never stopped caring about her. I would do anything for Isabelle.
grandmother		As her sister would have done anything for you.  Lucie was in love with you. But you knew that, didn't you?
henri		I had no control over the way she felt.
grandmother		She kept it secret from almost everyone. Even Isabelle didn't know. Did you tell anyone?
henri		Never.
grandmother		Not even your father?
henri		I didn't have to tell him.
grandmother		So he knew your secrets, did he? Henri picks up a hammer and goes back to work. Angrily nailing a shoe to the horse's foot. BANG! BANG! BANG!
grandmother		You were the only one who could have lured Lucie out on the Wolf's night. And none of the men who went hunting for the Wolf remember seeing you after the sun set on the night your father died. Henri faces her, clutching the hammer...
henri		Why are you doing this?
grandmother		Because I want you to confess. You killed Lucie. And your father. And God only knows how many others. And if you won't admit it, then I will tell Father Solomon and we will lock you up until the moon rises tomorrow night and you can no longer hide your guilt. As she says this, a slow look of dawning realization comes over him. Realization and horror.
henri		It's you. Henri steps closer to her, menacing. Grandmother steps back and finds herself bumping against the closed door.
henri		My God, it's you. You're the Wolf. I can smell it on you now.
grandmother		Smell what? What are you talking about?
henri		The night my father died. I saw the Wolf pass by, dragging him by the neck. I was so terrified I couldn't move or make a sound. I remember every detail of that moment. The way the moonlight gleamed off the Wolf's coat. The soundless way it moved. I even remember the way it smelled. A thick, greasy, musky stink.
grandmother		You accuse me and I'll bring you down with me. All they can do is take my life. You have more to lose.
henri		But who do you think they'll believe? I'm the blacksmith.
grandmother		Then I'll have to prove it.
henri		Unless you can, you'd best keep your mouth shut. Another beat. A stand-off. Grandmother's hand finds the door handle. She turns it, stumbling outside --
cesaire		Are you ready for me to take you home? She looks back. Henri stands in the doorway, still holding the hammer. She eyes him, measuring, suddenly hesitant. Cesaire gives them both an uncertain look.
grandmother		Stop the cart. Cesaire pulls the reins. Grandmother calls out:
grandmother		Prudence, come with me. I have some blankets I want you to mend for Father Auguste. Prudence sighs and climbs up into the cart.
grandmother		You take these blankets to Father Auguste the moment you're finished. Understand?
prudence		All right. Cesaire helps Grandmother out of the cart.
cesaire		Will you want a ride into town tomorrow? To say goodbye to her?
grandmother		Yes. First thing in the morning. He nods shakily and leaves. She closes the door behind him and lets the faade of calm fall from her face. She puts a trembling hand to her mouth, mind racing...
herald		Full moon! Full moon! Full moon!
grandmother		Show yourself! Coward! Another beat. The veil settles and is still. Then: A FIGURE lunges out of the veil with its arms reaching out at us. It grabs Grandmother's throat in one hand and wrestles the cane from her grip with the other. She struggles, but she's far too weak for her attacker. The Figure whips out a knife. Grandmother sees it, but can do nothing. The knife flashes. Fat drops of blood splash on the floor. Then the Figure drops Grandmother and she crumples, lifeless. A pool of blood slowly spreads out from underneath her. The Figure steps over the widening pool and picks up the letter Grandmother was writing. He quickly scans it and angrily tosses it in the fire... Then he hears something. FOOTSTEPS, crunching through the snow. He hurries to the window and peers out... It's Roxanne and Prudence. Roxanne looks like hell, but here for lessons as usual. The Figure ducks out of sight. A moment later, they're KNOCKING on the door. Their feet are visible under the crack. The Figure sidles alongside the door, BREATHING heavily. Another KNOCK. On the floor inside, the pool of blood is expanding toward the door... The Figure sees it. He puts a hand on the hilt of his knife... then whispers to the girls through the door, disguising his voice with a dry, old woman's rasp:
the figure		Go away. Outside, Roxanne and Prudence exchange a curious look.
prudence		Are you all right?
the figure		I'm sick. You can't come in.
prudence		You sound awful. Would you like us to make you something?
the figure		No. You mustn't come in. Go home, now. I want to sleep.
roxanne		Are you sure you don't want us to bring you something?
the figure		No, my dear. Come back tomorrow. The blood is seconds away from hitting her feet. The Figure stands poised to throw open the door... but at the last instant, Roxanne turns and walks away. She doesn't see the blood pour outside under the door behind her.
father auguste		I've come to hear your final confession. Isabelle nods shakily and sits up. He enters.
isabelle		Has there been any word from my grandmother?
father auguste		None that I have heard. Why? Isabelle doesn't answer. She turns away, troubled...
servant boy		She's still in the dungeon. They're going to move her at sunset. Peter tosses the Boy a coin. The Boy runs off. Peter looks at the stone house, his eyes hard and determined...
attewater		We've hanged the werewolf. Why not let the girl go free?
solomon		I told you, Bailiff. Where there is one werewolf, there are more. And the girl is the bait for our trap. Father Solomon strides off. Attewater watches him go...
peter		I need your help. Off Henri's look...
attewater		Where is your mother?
cesaire		I don't know. I went to pick her up this morning and she was gone.
attewater		Stop pouring that swill down your gullet listen to me! Cesaire emerges from his drunken fog and shoots him a dangerous look, but Attewater doesn't shy from it.
attewater		She was trying to find the werewolf. If she figured out who it is, I need to know now. Suddenly, the door bursts open and the Captain enters, flanked by Soldiers. They drag Cesaire to his feet.
attewater		Wait! What has he done?
captain		It's just a precaution. Father Solomon doesn't want the girl's family interfering. Suddenly, Cesaire pulls a club out of his boot and hits the Captain across the back, knocking him to his knees. Cesaire hits him again, then he's wrestled to the ground. The Captain kicks Cesaire in the face and knocks him out. The Soldiers drag him away. Attewater watches them go...
isabelle		What have you done to him?! Then: Isabelle's cell is opened. The Captain is holding iron manacles. Isabelle looks at them, horrified. The Soldiers clap her in irons. This is really happening...
isabelle		I love you so much. Tell Mama and Grandmother that I love them.
cesaire		I love you, my angel. You don't know how much. The Soldiers pull Isabelle away and lead her up the stairs. Cesaire shakes his cell door with impotent rage.
cesaire		Bastards!
lucrece		Not so pretty now, is she? The Villagers do not answer. Henri is here, silently fuming. Prudence stands next to him. She looks around.
prudence		Where's Peter?
henri		I haven't seen him.
solomon		We, Bailiff Attewater, Father Auguste, and Father Solomon of Avignon, having in mind that you, Isabelle Ordeville of Villiers la Croise in the Diocese of Saint-
isabelle		Help... Father Auguste stops. The Villagers shift uncomfortably as her helpless voice calls out from inside the mask.
isabelle		Help me... Please... Help me... The Villagers start to leave, ashamed. Isabelle sees them going... and suddenly SCREAMS.
prudence		Isabelle? Can you hear me?
isabelle		I can hear you.
prudence		Roxanne wanted you to know how sorry she is. She only said those things to save her brother.
isabelle		I know. Will you tell her that I forgive her?
prudence		Of course.
isabelle		You don't have to say anything.
prudence		I want to.
isabelle		I think you'd better go now. Prudence looks up. The sun has almost set.
prudence		Yes. It won't be long now.
solomon		No one shoots until I give the order. Attewater glances outside and sees Soldiers armed with longbows hidden all around the square. The Captain draws an arrow from his quiver. It's tip is made of silver.
solomon		There. The Captain and Attewater follow his look. A BLACK SHAPE is stealing through the shadows toward Isabelle...
solomon		Hold your fire... Isabelle frantically tries to free herself, her wrists torn and bleeding, but it's no use. Then, suddenly -- -- something SLAMS into the stocks. BANG! She can't see what it is. The stocks are hit again. Isabelle screams. Suddenly, the Shape moves into her field of view:
isabelle		Get away from me!
henri		I'm not the Wolf! The moon is out! Look, I haven't turned! Isabelle realizes. He's right. It couldn't be him.
henri		I'm trying to get you out of this.
isabelle		Yes! Yes, please hurry! Solomon and his men watch as Henri uses a hammer and chisel to break open the stocks. BANG! BANG!
captain		He's going to free her. Then: another HOWL. Almost on top of them.
solomon		Patience. It's close now... Henri brings the hammer down again and again and -- BANG! The lock is cleaved in two. Henri throws the stock open and helps Isabelle out of the mask. She looks like hell.
henri		Can you stand? Isabelle nods. In the loft:
solomon		Kill him. Attewater gives Solomon a horrified look. The Captain strings an arrow and draws it back, taking aim... Suddenly, Attewater pushes him aside, spoiling the shot. The arrow whizzes by Henri's head. Attewater calls out:
henri		We have to get to the stable. Peter left his cart for us.
isabelle		Peter? Where is he --?
henri		It doesn't matter. Come on!
captain		The witch has escaped! The witch has escaped!
henri		It's gone.
isabelle		I don't think so... Just then, they pass by the Reeve and a group of Villagers. The Villagers start to give chase, but Isabelle and Henri quickly leave them behind. Meanwhile, the Wolf is shortcutting through the village, racing after the cart. It comes to a sheep pen and smashes through it. It comes to a large barn and leaps onto its roof, then leaps off again -- -- and lands within striking distance of the cart. Henri drives the horse, but it's no use. The Wolf lunges, wrestling the horse to the ground. The horse cries out, its body twisting as it falls, sending the cart flying. Isabelle falls out and lands hard. Henri lies on his side, clutching his wrist. Isabelle pulls herself together and goes to him. She looks at his arm. It's visibly broken. She helps him to his feet -- -- just as the overturned cart is SMASHED apart. The Wolf bursts through it, breaking it to pieces. It glares at them with bloodthirsty eyes. Isabelle and Henri back away from it, but their escape is blocked -- the Villagers have caught up. They freeze at the sight of the Wolf, but stand their ground. Isabelle and Henri are trapped. The Reeve shouts:
reeve		Take her! Take her and leave us in peace! The Wolf SNARLS at him and turns to Isabelle.
the wolf		You can't outrun me, my dear. And there is no place you can hide that I cannot smell you out.
isabelle		My place will never be with you.
the wolf		Where do you belong then? Here? With the cowards who so gladly sacrificed you to save themselves?
isabelle		They're still good people.
the wolf		They are sheep. We are not like them. Let me show you what you are. The Wolf steps closer... but suddenly, Henri pushes Isabelle aside, pulls his hammer from his belt, and raises it to hit the Wolf.
henri		Get away from her! The Reeve quickly grabs him. Henri struggles futilely, but Isabelle seizes the distraction. She snatches a Villager's torch and jabs it into the Wolf's side. The Wolf leaps back with an eerily human YELP of pain. Before it can react, Isabelle waves the torch at the Villagers, grabs Henri and they run away. The mob chases after them. Three Soldiers appear and join the mob. Figures silhouetted against the snow, angry faces lit by torchlight. It's like a nightmare. Suddenly, a cottage in front of the mob EXPLODES into pieces and the Wolf bursts out of it. It turns on the Villagers and Soldiers. It picks up a fallen roof beam in its powerful jaws, clenches them, trembling with rage, and snaps the wooden beam in half like a twig. The Villagers run away in fear, but the Soldiers stand their ground and the Wolf attacks. Meanwhile, Isabelle and Henri escape... but there are more Soldiers up ahead. Isabelle and Henri quickly hide.
henri		I need to tell you something. In case I die.  Your grandmother is the Wolf. Isabelle recoils in disbelief. She shakes her head.
isabelle		The Wolf is a man. It told me.
henri		You believe it? Isabelle hesitates. He has a point. Henri peers out. The Soldiers are closing in on them...
henri		They're coming.
isabelle		Follow me. She takes his hand and leads him away.
isabelle		We need to come inside. Quickly.
marguerite		Have you lost your mind? If they find her here, they'll kill us, too!
roxanne		Then shut up so they don't find her.
henri		We have to get out of town.
roxanne		You'll never make it. You can hide here until morning.
isabelle		They're searching everywhere. We have to keep moving.
roxanne		You might make it to the church. Even the king cannot violate the protection of sanctuary.
henri		And the Wolf cannot cross onto holy ground. The three exchange a look. Sounds like a plan.
isabelle		Can we go out your back window? Roxanne nods. They hurry toward the window, but then:
roxanne		Wait! I have an idea.
reeve		They're here! Over here! The two figures run and the Villagers chase after them.
henri		Can you keep going?
roxanne		I can if you can. They run off, chased by the Villagers.
solomon		At least you won't die alone now. Your friends will all hang with you. Suddenly... a long, hideous SNARL. Behind them. Father Solomon turns. Isabelle cranes her neck and sees... the Wolf emerge from the alley she just came out of. Solomon picks up his sword and stands to face it.
solomon		If you come for her, you come through me. The Wolf GROWLS and raises its hackles. Solomon raises his sword. Just then, Henri and Roxanne run into the square, followed by a group of Villagers.
solomon		Stay back! Henri hurries to Isabelle's side. The Villagers watch, breathless, as Solomon and the Wolf circle one another. Solomon's sword starts to tremble. Sweat breaks out on his brow. The Wolf SNARLS with an almost mocking leer. Then, with a loud battle cry, Solomon charges. The Wolf leaps at him. Solomon raises his sword... ... and the Wolf's jaws clamp onto his wrist. Solomon screams. The Villagers watch, horrified, as the Wolf twists back and forth, like a dog with a chew toy -- -- biting off Solomon's hand. The hand falls into the snow, still clutching the silver sword. Solomon cries out in agony. The Wolf turns toward Isabelle and SNARLS.
the wolf		There is your mighty werewolf hunter. Who will save you now?
henri		You bastard! You killed my father!
isabelle		Henri, what are you doing?
henri		I'm not letting it take you. He throws another rock and another. One hits the Wolf in the eye, tearing a gash in its face. The Wolf GROWLS.
henri		Look! It bleeds! We can kill it if we stand together! The Villagers waver. Henri beseeches them:
henri		Father Solomon was one man. His soldiers were mercenaries. But we are a village! The Wolf SNARLS at him, but comes no closer.
isabelle		He's right. It's a coward at heart. Look at it. Why doesn't it attack? The Wolf SNARLS louder and takes a step toward her... but then the Merchant picks up a rock and throws it.
merchant		You killed my daughter! Then another Villager joins them. The Wolf looks around. Villagers are emerging from the shadows all around it. It's surrounded. And not by a dozen soldiers, but by a solid wall of angry, determined men and women. The Wolf raises its hackles, trying to scare them, but they start closing in, jabbing at it with weapons and farm implements. It snaps and SNARLS at its attackers, but there are too many of them. Someone drives a spear into the Wolf and it screams in agony. It lurches around, biting at the spear, but can't reach it. Then Henri sees something in the snow...
the wolf		I will come for you again. And with that, it turns and flees into the night. The Villagers CHEER. The Reeve chases after it and the rest of the angry mob follows him. Henri turns to Isabelle.
henri		Are you all right? Isabelle nods, shaky. Then...
solomon		I am bitten. Henri and Isabelle exchange a look. A long beat. Henri walks over to Solomon, sword in hand. Solomon crosses himself and closes his eyes, unafraid. Roxanne turns away. Isabelle doesn't. Then Henri swings the sword. There is a soft THUMP as Solomon's head hits the snow. Henri throws the sword aside. Isabelle puts a reassuring hand on his shoulder.
isabelle		It's past noon.
suzette		I know. I didn't want to wake you. Isabelle smiles up at her. The wounds on Suzette's face are still bad, but healing. She's scarred for life.
isabelle		Where's Father?
suzette		He'll be home soon. They have no reason to hold him any longer.
isabelle		Did they catch the Wolf?
suzette		No. They lost it in the forest. This gives Isabelle pause. A beat. Then:
isabelle		What about Grandmother? Suzette hesitates. Isabelle is suddenly concerned.
suzette		Roxanne came by. She said your grandmother has fallen ill. I was hoping you could look in on her. Off Isabelle's troubled look...
peter		Thank God you're all right. He tries to take her hand, but she pulls away. A beat.
isabelle		I'm fine. You sent Henri to help me.
peter		What did he tell you? Isabelle gives him a hurt look.
isabelle		Those people back there. I know they mean well, but they're just people. I didn't expect anything from them. I expected something from you.
peter		I just need to talk to you.
isabelle		I'm going to see my Grandmother. She's sick. Please don't follow me. Isabelle starts walking again. Peter just stands there, watching her go. When she looks back, he's gone. She sighs, wiping tears from her eyes. She continues on... Then: FOOTSTEPS behind her again. She stops and looks back. Listens. Nothing. She keeps walking. But then she HEARS them again. Looks back. A dark figure follows her in the fog. She walks faster. She reaches the fork in the path. She pauses. The FOOTSTEPS are still behind her. She makes a decision. She breaks off a tree branch and backs toward the abandoned path, using the branch to sweep away her tracks in the snow. When she's far enough away from the main path, she throws the branch aside... ... and turns to face the abandoned path. It looks ominous. She gives it a wary look, then starts walking.
isabelle		Grandmother? Are you awake? She listens at the door. A long beat. Then:
reeve		You're certain nobody has seen him since last night?
guard		The Wolf must have taken him. What else could have done that? They're looking at the cell where Cesaire was locked up. The metal door has been ripped off its hinges...
the figure		I've been expecting you. Isabelle starts toward the bedroom with the basket...
isabelle		Mother sent some food. There are cakes and a pot of butter --
the figure		Don't come in here. Isabelle stops short. Grandmother's face is cloaked in darkness. Isabelle gives her a questioning look.
the figure		I'm not hungry right now.
isabelle		Are you sure? You sound so weak.
the figure		I just made myself a stew. I left it over the fire for you. Isabelle glances back at the pot BUBBLING over the fire.
isabelle		I came here to take care of you. Not the other way around.
the figure		Don't be silly, my dear. You've been through so much. Sit down. Isabelle considers for a beat, then places the basket on the table, next to a ball of yarn with Grandmother's knitting needles sticking out of it.
the figure		There's no burden so heavy that it doesn't seem a little lighter on a full stomach.
the figure		That's right. Eat up, my dear. Eat up. Isabelle takes a bite of the hot soup. The cat jumps up on the table and lies down next to her, licking its paw.
isabelle		I've been worried about you. When you didn't come back yesterday, I was afraid...
the figure		Was I now?
isabelle		Yes. He saved my life. Isabelle takes another bite of soup, then pauses. She puts the bowl down and loosens her collar...
isabelle		I feel hot all of a sudden.
the figure		It's just the stew warming you. Isabelle hesitates, but keeps eating. Then she takes a closer look at the cat. There's blood on its paw. That's what it has been licking this whole time. Suddenly, Isabelle feels faint. She breaks out in a sweat. She looks at the soup. A thick broth with chunks of white meat...
isabelle		What is this...?
the figure		If you don't like it, there's wine on the table to wash it down. Isabelle reaches for the bottle with an unsteady hand and pours herself a cup. She takes a sip... and freezes. It's not wine. It's blood. She gags and drops the cup, spilling blood everywhere. The cat jumps away. She looks at the bottle, turns it over. More blood pours out. Isabelle screams and throws it, knocking over the pot and spilling the soup. The Figure laughs.
the figure		Oh, what pretty red lips. Come and give your Granny a kiss, my dear.
isabelle		I don't think I want to.
the figure		Then I will come to you. And with that -- Grandmother slowly starts to move. She groans. She's hurt. She stands up. She's much taller now than she was. As Isabelle watches in mute dread, the Figure pulls off Grandmother's nightgown and cap, hobbles into the firelight, revealing its face...
isabelle		What is this? Where's Grandmother?
cesaire		I'm afraid I ate most of her.
cesaire		I didn't want to kill her. But she finally realized what I was.
isabelle		You're not the Wolf. You can't be...
cesaire		Look into my eyes. The one part of me I can never change. Isabelle looks into his eyes... and recoils in horror.
isabelle		Oh, dear God... You killed Lucie? You killed my sister?
cesaire		I did more than that to her. Isabelle steps away from him, mind reeling. He snarls.
cesaire		I only wish your mother could have known what I did to her. The girl she passed off as my daughter.
cesaire		Lucie was the joy of my life. But she wasn't mine.
isabelle		Yes, she was. In every way that matters, she was.
cesaire		No. Not in every way that matters. My father sired me. I am a werewolf because it was in his blood. Because I was his.
isabelle		Did Grandmother know?
cesaire		No. And neither does your mother.
cesaire		They killed my father. Suddenly, the larger werewolf falls into a pit filled with sharp stakes. It CRIES OUT in agony. The smaller werewolf looks down and WHIMPERS... ... watching as the larger werewolf begins to change before our eyes. It's reverting to its human form...
cesaire		This doesn't concern you, Isabelle.
isabelle		Yes, Father. Isabelle walks away. Cesaire watches her go...
cesaire		She was not a werewolf yet. I had to turn her. ... the Wolf emerge from the forest with a scrap of bloody meat dangling from its jaws.
cesaire		The bite should have changed her. It should have made her like me. But it didn't. That's when I knew. There was no werewolf blood in her. I was not her father. I was so angry. I killed her before I even realized I was doing it.
cesaire		Do you see now? This is your heritage. This is what you are. Everything I have done has been to insure the future of our bloodline. We will run together
isabelle		There must indeed be a God. For you are surely the Devil...
cesaire		I will give you a choice. Come with me now. Or refuse me and let your friends suffer in your place. I will kill them one by one. Your mother. Roxanne. Peter. Isabelle shudders. She slowly pulls away and he releases her. She walks over to the table, her back to him. She eyes the ball of yarn with Grandmother's knitting needles in it. A long beat. Isabelle chokes back tears.
isabelle		Father...? He approaches her. Stands behind her and places his hand on her shoulder. Her skin crawls.
cesaire		Yes, my dear?
isabelle		You gave me two choices. She turns to face him. Looks up at him.
isabelle		But I have thought of a third. Suddenly -- CRUNCH! Isabelle drives something hard into Cesaire's jaw. He gasps, choking. He puts his had to his throat. Blood spills out through his fingers. CAMERA FINDS Grandmother's ball of yarn on the table. The knitting needles aren't sticking out of it anymore... They're sticking out of Cesaire's neck. He falls to his knees, gagging. Then he flops over dead. Eyes open. Isabelle gazes down at him. She looks like she might have just lost her mind. Then she sits on the floor, staring at his body... and screams. An eruption of rage, betrayal, and heartbreak. She screams.
isabelle		People should know what he was.
peter		We can't tell anyone. If they don't believe you, they'll hang you for this. And if they do believe you, they'll hang you for being the daughter of the Wolf.
isabelle		Then I'll run away. I was ready to run away last night.
peter		I was bitten at the festival. I spent last night in the woods because I was afraid of what might happen...
isabelle		No, you're not. You could never be like him.
peter		I can't stay here.
isabelle		Yes, you can. We can still be together. My father lived here. My grandfather lived here.
peter		Your father and your grandfather killed people. They couldn't help themselves. If I stay here, I won't be able to control myself.  I have to be alone. Isabelle rests her head on his and they just sit like that, leaning against one another in the candlelight...
peter		We could take him to the river.
isabelle		I don't want him ever found.
peter		We'll weight him with rocks.
isabelle		No. We'll put the rocks inside him.  Cut him open. I will sew the rocks inside him. Peter is taken aback. She's serious.
isabelle		Wait. She pulls back the burlap, revealing Cesaire's dead body. His belly is lumpy and misshapen, an ugly red line in his torso stitched together with black thread. The knitting needles still jut out of his jaw. Isabelle yanks them out, then pulls the burlap back over Cesaire's body. Peter gives her a questioning look.
isabelle		These belonged to my grandmother. The knitting needles are covered in blood. Peter takes out a rag and wipes the blood off for her. And as he does... something begins to shine through in the moonlight. Peter gives Isabelle a stunned look.
peter		They're silver.
peter		Death was too good for him.
isabelle		I can live with it.
isabelle		Where will you go?
peter		I don't know. I need to understand what I've become. Maybe I can learn to control it.  I'll take my own life before I take another's.
isabelle		I know.
peter		I'm not coming back. I don't want you to wait for me. This is the last time you'll ever see me.
isabelle		No, it isn't. You'll be in my dreams until the day I die. Peter turns and starts to walk away. But then he pauses.
peter		You know, Henri is a good man.
isabelle		Yes, he is. Then Peter continues on until he vanishes in the fog. CAMERA PUSHES IN on Isabelle as she watches him go...
****Dialogues from script :Reindeer_Games.txt****

nick		What's the first thing, man? What's the first thing you're gonna do?
rudy		Haven't thought about it.
nick		Hell you haven't.
rudy		Get to thinking about it, it won't happen.
nick		We walk outta here, we hit that road, what's the first thing you're gonna do.
rudy		Ain't there yet.
nick		Three days, man.
rudy		Not yet.
nick		Fuckin' Christmas, man. Fuckin, Christmas on the outs.
rudy		Hot chocolate.
nick		What?
rudy		Get a hot mug of chocolate.  First thing I'm gonna do.
nick		 And a slice of pecan pie, right?
rudy		And some pecan pie.
nick		She's gonna be out there, man. Right there. Right there waiting.
rudy		Yeah.
nick		Gonna walk out of this shitstorm and right into her arms.
rudy		Yeah.
nick		Got us a motel out Highway 5, bringing her own damn sheets, you read that part? Silk damn sheets. Lock ourselves in the whole week, drinking wine, taking baths, man, see if they got those room service steaks... anything I want to do. Remember when she wrote that? Anything I want...
rudy		Yeah. Fuckin' Christmas.
rudy		All those pictures she's sent... y'know... you sure they're all of her, Nick? You hear sometimes they don't send their real pictures. Could be her cousin or something.
nick		Why you gotta say a thing like that.
rudy		I'm just saying.
nick		Why you gotta. We were gonna give you a ride someplace, man. Now I just don't know.
rudy		I'm just talking.
nick		Fuck your hot chocolate, Rudy.
nick		I'm gonna marry this girl.
rudy		For twenty-five, she sounds pretty mature.
nick		Yeah. You grow up in Detroit, you get matured real quick.
nick		Sure as hell don't make me miss Millie Bobek. Guess I owe Millie, though. If I hadn't been rollin, her, I woulda never ended up here. And I woulda never met Ashley.  That's the world for ya.
rudy		What if she sees you, man, sees what you look like... and it's not there. You just don't do it for her.
nick		Me and her got a connection.  Read this part. Read the part about stuffing her stocking.
rudy		She's using a new perfume.
nick		No, I think that's just oranges. She writes here she's eating oranges.
rudy		Oh.
nick		Shoulda written to that magazine, Rudy. I'm gonna walk outta here, walk right into a relationship. Not some one-nighter, man... a relationship. You? You're gonna walk outta here with bus fare. Searching for the drunkest skirt in the room.
rudy		Mornin', gorgeous. More egg nog?
nick		Shoulda written, Rudy...
nick		Shoulda got yourself a girl.
rudy		All I want... is to make it to Sidnaw, and sit down for Christmas dinner. Watch some ball with my old man, sleep in my old bed, and have leftovers for bout six months.
nick		Thought you hated Sidnaw.
rudy		Just taste that Christmas turkey.
nick		Thought you hate your old man.
rudy		Five years, Nicky. Five years.  I just want to go home.
nick		Well, man. Me and Ashley. We'll be thinking about you.
rudy		Shit. Alamo's back.
nick		Don't look like he missed the sunlight.
rudy		Pinscher told me Alamo thinks I'm the one ratted on him beating up Cree. Since I was there, I saw it, he thinks I got him sent to solitary.
nick		Aw, Rudy.
rudy		Count me outta mealtime --
mean guard		GET BACK IN LINE!
rudy		I'm not hungry, I'm gonna --
mean guard		SHOULDA STAYED IN YOUR HOLE! GET BACK IN FUCKING LINE!
nick		What the fuck is this?
ugly staffer		Holiday jello.
nick		What's this shit in it?
ugly staffer		Swallow and see.
nick		Just so you know, this man and I are outta here in two days. So while we're inhaling London broil and lobster bisque, you're gonna still be standing here smelling up the mystery creamfuck.  Who's in prison now?
the alamo		When you don't expect it.
rudy		It wasn't me, Alamo --
the alamo		That's when.
nick		Two days.
nick		So maybe after our week beneath the sheets, we'll head down to Motor City for New Year's. She says her roommate's skipping town for a few days, have the place to ourselves. Remember how her brother's a truck driver down there? I'm thinking he might be able to help get me some work.
rudy		What, working security?
nick		No, I'm through with that shit. Ashley's right. Gotta start doing something I got a stake in. Get a business going.
rudy		I don't know, I've seen the business world.
nick		Hotwiring cars, Rudy, does not qualify as a small business. Chop shop consultant; doesn't work on a resume.
nick		Ashley's talking about maybe we can start something up together...
nick		Whatsa matter, Zook?
rudy		The hell you doing, Zookerman?
nick		Just a roach, Zook.
rudy		Good for you. Protein.
zook		Monsters in the gelatin...
nick		It's a roach, guy --
zook		There are monsters...  ...in the gelatin...
nick		Oh, man --
zook		THERE ARE MONSTERS IN THE GELATIN!
nick		 Fuckin, Zookerman --
zook		THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN! THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN!
distant inmate		Sonofabitch!
zook		THERE ARE MONSTERS! IN THE GELATIN!
guards		SIT DOWN! SIT THE FUCK BACK DOWN!
nick		Rudy, don't move --
rudy		Two days, we got two days! Don't do nothing. Don't touch nothing --
nick		Don't move, Rudy!
rudy		Standing right here, man!
nick		 Ate the jello, jello was fine!
nick		RUDY, LOOK OUT!
rudy		NICK!
rudy		GUARD! GUARD!
nick		 Alamo...
rudy		GUARD!!!
nick		Jesus, Rudy --
rudy		Take it, man! You're all right! Hold it in! GUARD!
nick		Oh, fuck, Rudy... oh Jesus...
rudy		GUARD!!!
nick		Ash... Ashley...
rudy		No, man! No, no, no!
nick		 Tell her... I'll be there ...
rudy		You're GONNA be there! We're getting outta here! TAKE IT!
nick		Tell Ashley... I...
rudy		YOU TELL HER!
nick		...be with her...
rudy		NO!!!
nick		...for Christmas...
rudy		NICK!!!
guards		GET HIM OUT OF HERE! LOCK DOWN!
rudy		NICK!!!
rudy		The man had two days...
mean guard		Well. Least he won't be coming back.
mean guard		You need company tonight, Rudy... you just give a holler.
rudy		He was burning for you too...
exit guard		Your world and welcome to it, dumbfucks! Don't be a stranger now! We'll keep the lights on for ya!
rudy		Don't do it, Rudy...
rudy		Don't do it ...
rudy		You Ashley?
rudy		I'm Nick.
rudy		I like your coat.
rudy		This -- this is just something they gave me at the door. Wasn't snowing when we signed up, y'know?
rudy		How's your coffee?
ashley		Good.
rudy		Gotta be ten degrees out there.
ashley		Radio said negative five.
rudy		Negative five?
ashley		Yeah.
rudy		I don't think it's negative five.
ashley		Radio said.
rudy		Wind chill. That's probably what they meant.
rudy		I was scared. Scared you were gonna take one look at me and change your mind. Scared I was walking into heartache. All those words... you put a picture in your mind of where they come from and when you see where maybe it's not the same as your picture.
ashley		I figured you walked outta there and saw me and walked right the other way --
rudy		No, no --
ashley		Saw my outfit or something, my coat --
rudy		No, hey, I like your coat --
ashley		Saw me --
rudy		Ashley, no. That was me, that's what I was scared of. I mean, be serious... I ain't exactly looking like Mr. Universe here.
ashley		You are to me.
ashley		Thought you wrote you had a mustache.
rudy		I can get another one going. Y'know, hey, whatever you want me to --
ashley		No, no, no. Be like you want to be.
rudy		Do that again.
ashley		What.
rudy		Smile.
ashley		No --
rudy		One more. Smile. One more.
ashley		 No, c'mon --
rudy		I've been dreaming about that smile, Ashley Mercer. For a long time.
ashley		You're better than the picture in my mind, Nick...  You're real.
rudy		Tell me something. This the first time you've ever done this?
ashley		Go to hell, Nick Mason, what's that supposed to mean --
rudy		No, not that, no...  I mean this, the whole thing. Start writing to a guy, guy in the bricks. Get a boyfriend like this. Tell me the truth.
ashley		Well. You're not the first guy I wrote to. But you're the only one I kept writing to.
rudy		Yeah. Me too.  Why? I mean I know why for me, why I paid for the ad. But you... why start writing to some guy -- some con -- you don't even know?
ashley		I told you, Nick. Remember?
rudy		Tell me again.
ashley		All the guys I've ever been with... they never want to know me. Who I am on the inside. They just want to qet inside. When they do, they think that means they know who I am. That I trust them. That they know me. That there's nothing left to learn.  A guy like you, Nick -- six months before you can even touch my face. I figure a guy in that kind of bind, he's gonna hafta work to get to know me some other way.
rudy		Had some bad relationships, didn't you.
ashley		Not bad. Just regular.  You wrote me wonderful things, Nick. Personal things.
rudy		Well, wasn't all me, y'know.
ashley		Yes it was all you --
rudy		Guy I was in with... he helped sometimes... some of the romantic stuff, actually... you'd like him --
ashley		I'm talking about the heart, Nick. I'm not talking about the words.
rudy		Y'know, some of the heart mighta been his too...
ashley		Then he shoulda signed his name.
ashley		And he'd be here right now.
rudy		Where the hell are you going?
ashley		Provisions! We are not leaving that motel room again till after New Year's: we need ten days worth of provisions!  What's good?!
cookie matron		Oh my, we've got a special on our chocolate crunchie elves, they're shaped like little helpers --
ashley		THIS MAN... has not had a cookie in two goddamn years! Get him two of everything!
rudy		Ashley, Jesus --
ashley		Can't survive on our bodies alone, Nick.  Hurry up!
rudy		Ash... didn't you write me that you don't eat chocolate?
ashley		Yeah, well you wrote me you were six- foot-four, baby.  So don't talk to me about little white lies.
ashley		You need a COAT!
rudy		Ash, you've gotten me enough --
ashley		No boyfriend of mine is going to walk around in negative-five degree wind chill without a goddamn good- looking coat!
rudy		Baby, c'mon, all this stuff... I haven't gotten you anything --
ashley		You got out, Nick. You're here. You're my Christmas.
rudy		It's two hundred dollars, Ash --
ashley		You forget where I work?
rudy		 Beauty and fragrances.
ashley		Fifty percent off, motherfucker. Ho ho ho.
rudy		Just for the holidays, Nick. Then we'll tell her. We'll let her... have her holidays...
teen clerk		You can't find... what?
ashley		Toys for adults. Where are your toys for adults?
teen clerk		Toys for... adults?
ashley		C'mon. How old are you, sixteen? C'mon.
teen clerk		We sell children's toys --
ashley		 I got fifty dollars to spend in your store, Jesus of Nazareth. Can you help me or not?
teen clerk		Slinky's in aisle five, Twister's in aisle one, Moon Mud's in aisle four.
ashley		Thank you.
rudy		Well, I don't know about that --
ashley		Blackjack, Nick, blackjack I am good at. I mean, they'd give us some free games or something, wouldn't they? Since you worked there?
rudy		Security, Ash, I just worked security. They wouldn't be rolling out the red carpet --
ashley		And the slots, slots I'm good at too. Wouldn't that be fun?
rudy		We'll have more fun in Detroit.
ashley		We could live it up and --
rudy		Ashley. We're not going anywhere I used to work.
ashley		I just... I thought you'd have friends there...
rudy		Hey. I been in prison for two years, Ash. Believe me. Those guys wouldn't want to see me.
ashley		Well, they don't know what the hell they're missing.
ashley		Baby, I'm gonna go tell 'em not to disturb us for the rest of the year. I get back in that room, you better be wearing nothing but a candy cane.
rudy		I'll see what I can do.
ashley		No, lover. I'll see what you can do.
rudy		 I have no gifts to bring, parum-pum- pum-pum. No treasures for the king, pa-rum-pum-pum-pum...
rudy		...but I got a girl to be with, rum- pum-pum-pum...
rudy		What the fuck --
rudy		HEYYY!!! IN HERE!!! HEYYY!!!
gabriel		Welcome home, Nick.
pug		I owe ya a drink, ya fuck --
rudy		You... you don't know me --
gabriel		Oh, I know you, Nick. I know you real well.
rudy		No, you can't --
gabriel		The hell I can't.
ashley		Watch out, baby! I'm bringing in the fucking tree!
rudy		ASHLEY!
ashley		I'm telling you, we got the best one in the store... I don't know why people want their houses smelling like the stupid woods...
rudy		NO!
ashley		NICK!
gabriel		 Hope her taste in men's better than her taste in Christmas.
gabriel		Hey, sis. Happy holidays.
gabriel		Jumpy, don't hurt her, now.
gabriel		So. This is the guy you been waiting for. Man of your dreams.
ashley		Gabriel -- !
gabriel		 Must have a way with stationery.
ashley		Gabriel, what are you doing!
ashley		GABRIEL!!!
gabriel		You better be here to be good to her, loverboy. 'Cause she's been good to you.
ashley		Gabriel, let him go --
gabriel		Read a lot about you, Nick.
ashley		What are you doing here?!
gabriel		Read you're a man of some knowledge.
ashley		Gabriel!
gabriel		A man of some travels.
ashley		GABRIEL, I LOVE HIM!
rudy		I'm... not... Nick...
rudy		I'm not him. I...  You want something from Nick, you got the wrong guy.
ashley		 Nick...
gabriel		Who are you now.
rudy		You got the wrong guy! She thinks I'm Nick, I'm not!
gabriel		 Put him in the truck.
rudy		I was in the joint with him! I knew about him and her, okay!? I took his place!
gabriel		You what...
rudy		I got out, Nick didn't! I pretended I was him! I knew about her letters! Jesus Christ, whatever you want from him -- I'm not Nick!  I -- I just wanted to be --
gabriel		You're not Nick Mason...
rudy		I shared his cell!
gabriel		But you were saying you were...
rudy		Yes!
gabriel		So you could get with my sister.
rudy		Yes!
gabriel		So you could get down her chimney.
rudy		Yes!
gabriel		And you think telling me that's gonna help your cause.
gabriel		Is this him!?
ashley		 Don't hurt him...
gabriel		Is this the fucker you been writing all year!?
ashley		 Please, Gabriel, don't...
gabriel		IS THIS NICK MASON!!??
ashley		YES!!!
gabriel		Well, he's gonna have to learn to give you some respect.
merlin		Hey. They got a shitload of cookies.
gabriel		Take 'em.
merlin		How 'bout the tree? You want the tree?
gabriel		Leave the tree.
gabriel		I've read your letters, motherfucker. Don't play no reindeer games with me.
gabriel		Hell, Bugeye. How you doin'? Ain't hauling, man, I'm up for the holidays. Gonna have myself a holiday... for a goddamn change...
ashley		I won't let 'em, Nick. They won't hurt you anymore.
rudy		Your brother...
rudy		...the truck driver...
ashley		He's not a bad person, Nick... he's not...
ashley		You're not gonna hurt him anymore!
ashley		Since Janey moved in... Gabriel... he's come over more and more. To the apartment. Janey's the divorced one, 'member, with the tit job --
rudy		What the fuck is going on.
ashley		He read the letters, Nick. Some day I wasn't there. He went through my room. He found your letters.
rudy		What's going ON!!!
ashley		He knows you worked in that casino.
rudy		You motherfucker.
ashley		Nick, no --
rudy		You sold him out.
ashley		Nick --
rudy		When'd you decide to do it, Ash? After which of his letters, huh? The fortieth? The fiftieth? The first?!
ashley		Nick, what are you --
rudy		I'M NOT NICK!  You thought you'd fuck him over?! Well he's fucked you! I've never worked at some casino! I can't help you! Because he's not me!
ashley		Nick, I love you --
rudy		JESUS CHRIST!
pug		Watch your mouth, man. It's Christmas.
rudy		I'M NOT NICK!
rudy		Get the hell off of me!
ashley		 Nick, it won't work. It won't work!
ashley		He'll kill you.
rudy		You're not hearing me here --
ashley		My brother's killed people, I know he has. Truckers. If you talk him into thinking you're not you, you'll only get yourself dead.
rudy		He didn't "find" Nick's letters, did he.
ashley		Nick, please, it's me --
rudy		You told him about Nick's letters.
ashley		No, Nick, no --
rudy		You're in on this.
ashley		I love you!
rudy		Y'know, in a way, I'm glad it's me. 'Cause you woulda broken his heart.
rudy		Your pen palls dead, lady.
ashley		If you say that, if you keep saying that, they will kill you. If they think you're not you, they will kill you. Don't you see? I know what you're doing, but it won't work!
rudy		Nick died for me....
ashley		I won't let him hurt you! He just wants what you know!
rudy		 ...maybe I die for Nick...
ashley		Just tell him what you know, Nick! That's all they want! And we'll get out of this!
ashley		He found them... I swear, Nick...  ...he found them...
gabriel		"My sweet, sexy Ashy-lashy, I have been dreaming of you constantly, and knowing you are out there makes these walls not seem so close or so strong or so cold..."  "Someday I'm gonna take you up by Lake S. Before I went in, before goddamn Millie, 'fore I had my situation, I used to work up at this casino, working security. Used to watch for people stealing chips, counting cards, getting piss-drunk, that kinda shit. Indian place, they hired this reject outta Vegas to run it, got about as much business sense as a buffalo patty. Anyways, it's a fun place to run some numbers and play."
gabriel		You're a good writer, Nick. I give this writing an A-plus.
rudy		I never worked at no casino.
ashley		 Nick...
rudy		That's the guy I was in with, I did my last ten months with him. He rode a two-year bit for manslaughter -- split a guy's skull open at a bar for harassing his girl. That's Nick Mason. He worked at that casino. He's the one who wrote her letters. Me, I'm a damn mechanic, my last job was a Quickie Lube, I did five for lifting cars. I don't know shit about blackjack, I don't know shit about Indians. I'm not him.
gabriel		Bury this guy.
ashley		Gabriel, you promised!
gabriel		I promised that when he helped us, we'd be gone! When he helped us! Loverboy don't want to play!
ashley		You promised me!
gabriel		And you promised me you'd get your sweetheart to help!
gabriel		He'd rather die than be with you, he'd make a fucked-up boyfriend anyway.  Bury him all over the place.
ashley		NO!
merlin		Beats prison, I guess.
jumpy		The problem with prison... is that it is founded on the fundamentally flawed perception of rehabilitation through punishment. A society can't hope to create a "changed man" by surrounding him with the worst in his fellow man; what it "rehabilitates" is solely a conviction that if he can survive the inhumanity of prison, what then, can he not withstand? He has seen man's darkest soul and kept his sight: what is left for such a man? What faith? What fear?
jumpy		Don't get no blood on my boots --
rudy		WHAT DO YOU WANT TO KNOW!
rudy		About the Tomahawk! What the hell do you want to know!
rudy		I spend six months writing poetry and my goddamn pen pal fucks me over. Thanks for the stamps, Ash. You want me, you got me. Whaddya want to know.
gabriel		Everything.
ashley		I love you... Nick, I love you...
gabriel		Hey. She says she loves you, Nick.
rudy		She says a lot of things.
gabriel		She's getting you to help us... 'cause she knows if you don't, you're dead. You just tell us what we need to know, you two live happily ever after. My sister loves you, motherfucker, and I ain't gonna have you break her heart.
rudy		Wish I had a brother like you.
gabriel		A girl says she loves you, you say something.
rudy		I had better sex in prison.
gabriel		Heyyy. Be nice, convict. We're gonna be working together here.  Get him back in the rig.
pug		Whole time you were driving, he was telling her he's not the guy, he's not the guy. I know why he'd tell us he's not the guy. why's he telling her he's not the guy? What if he's not the guy?
gabriel		The man who wrote those letters loved Ashley, boys. He lived for her love.  Let's see him live for love.
gabriel		Where's she work?
rudy		What?
gabriel		 Wrote you a hundred letters, didn't she? Where's she work?
rudy		J.C. Penney. Beauty and fragrances.
gabriel		What's her middle name?
rudy		 Samantha.
gabriel		What'd they call her in high school?
rudy		Bam Bam.
gabriel		What'd they call her in college?
rudy		What college.
gabriel		Where'd she drop her cherry?
ashley		Gabriel!
rudy		Canada.
gabriel		Be more specific.
rudy		A station wagon in Canada.
gabriel		What's her greatest fear?
rudy		Her brother.
gabriel		Wrong, Nick. It's drowning.
rudy		No. It's her brother.
gabriel		That's love.
gabriel		Let's get back on the road. It's time to start talking, Nick. Time to start telling tales --
rudy		Nick don't talk till Nick gets something.
rudy		Hot. Chocolate.
merlin		You want that for here or to go?
rudy		I been in Iron Mountain for two years, truck driver. I do one more crime, I'm back there for good, so fuck you and fuck your sister and fuck your trucker friends. You want to hear about some goddamn job of mine? I want some hot-goddamn-chocolate.
rudy		And some pecan-fucking-pie.
gabriel		So when you worked there --
gabriel		You knew the place --
rudy		Hey.
rudy		Y'know, I could really go for some onion rings.
ashley		Gabriel! You said talk to him. That's all you ever said...
gabriel		We're talking, aren't we?
gabriel		How much money's in that casino? Day-to-day.
rudy		I don't know.
gabriel		The hell you don't.
rudy		 Five million?
gabriel		You wrote Ash that letter, you told her that story 'bout working Christmas Eve, bout how they'd send half the security guys home, nobody comin, in that night. And the rest of you got shit-faced drinking hot buttered rum. That a true story now?
rudy		Christmas... Eve...
gabriel		You know where the guards are. You know how to get in and out. You know where the money is.  We're taking down that casino, convict. You're the guy gonna tell us how.
rudy		Hey, it's... been two years --
gabriel		We got faith in you, Nick Mason.  You're our inside man.
rudy		...goddamn it, Rudy... goddamn it... goddamn girl, goddamn Nick... you're so smart, so fucking smart...
rudy		Where's your Christmas dinner now...
jumpy		I've read where the retail industry does fifty percent of its business between December 1st and December 25th. Half the year's business, in one month's time. It seems to me an intelligent society would legislate a second such gift-giving holiday, create, say, a Christmas Two -- late May, early June -- to further stimulate growth and prosperity. For who would protest such a holiday? Taking the fifty percent model, a Christmas Two would grow this country's annual per capita income by close to one-third.
gabriel		Christmas Two.
gabriel		Ever since you started night school, you been givin, me headaches, Jumpy. Headaches.  Go see what's taking him.
gabriel		Here ya go, convict. We cased the place in the fall, got the layout down. What you're gonna do is show us where each of these doors go, what the upstairs level looks like, where they got the alarms, all of it.
merlin		And where they hide the real money.
gabriel		And Nick? If you even think about setting us up, giving us some bad information? We go down... you go down...  Now. Christmas Eve. How many guards are there gonna be?
rudy		Hell. Ten?
gabriel		And which of these doors here lead up to the security level?
merlin		Start talking, Nick.
pug		Start talkin
rudy		Who the hell made this map.
gabriel		What?
rudy		I said, who the hell made the map?
gabriel		I did.
rudy		This isn't the Tomahawk.
gabriel		What the fuck are you talking about.
rudy		This is the front entrance, right? You get through the slots, you hit craps here, not blackjack. Blackjack's here to here -- lined up. What's this, the cage? Cage is over there, hard to get to, you got it all mixed around --
pug		That's what it looks like!
rudy		Since when? What the hell is this room?
merlin		Buffet. Whaddya think it is?
rudy		Buffet is by the goddamn bar! What the hell kind of map is this?!
gabriel		We walked the place for a week.
rudy		And I worked there. For a year.
pug		Map is kinda dirty, Monster...
rudy		They changed the layout.
gabriel		What?
rudy		They changed the layout -- whadda they call you? Mr. Monster? They remodeled the place. When I worked there -- listen to me -- guy that managed the joint, guy who ran it--
ashley		Jack. Jack Bangs.
rudy		Right, Jack Bangs. Uh... guy was always talking bout fixing the place up. Maybe get a better crowd. Musta gone and done it while I was in the Mountain.  I don't know this map, man. How the hell am I supposed to tell you what door goes where?
gabriel		They wouldn't have changed the security setup.
rudy		When I worked there, this was Bangs, office. Back here. He kept a little safe in the... uh, the wall, money held take for himself, skim from the Indians. Called it the... uh...  ...the Powwow Safe.
jumpy		The Powwow Safe?
rudy		His personal safe, he gave it a name. Now you're telling me they've taken his office, put the buffet there? Then who knows what else they changed.
gabriel		So what the hell good are you...
rudy		You'd have to get me inside.  Get inside, watch where the money's moving, see where the guards are going. Then I could work with your map.
gabriel		Wrong, convict. You walk in there, they recognize you.
pug		So what?
gabriel		They recognize him, they'll remember him after the job goes down.
rudy		They won't recognize me.
gabriel		Why not.
rudy		Trust me. They won't recognize me.
gabriel		We'll trust you when we're rich. Why not.
rudy		'Cause you're gonna get me a disguise.
rudy		I give you the wrong information, you're gonna shoot me. Well, I don't know your damn map. So you can either find a way to get me in there... or you can shoot me right now.
gabriel		Bring back some memories, Nick?
rudy		More than you know.
rudy		What the hell is this? What happened to working together?
gabriel		Rather be back in the Mountain?
rudy		Might as well be.
gabriel		Don't have Weather Channel in the Mountain, Nick.
gabriel		Sleep good, loverboy. Tomorrow you got singing for your supper to do.
rudy		Get your own room.
ashley		He said he wanted to talk to you. When he found the letters... he said "when your boyfriend gets out, I wanna talk to him." I thought he meant back in Detroit. I thought he meant --
rudy		But you knew why. Knew why, didn't ya.
ashley		I thought we'd have a few more days.
rudy		For what? You to talk me into "helping"? What, he promise you a share of the winnings?
ashley		No!
rudy		Well, shit, Judas, you shoulda at least gotten that --
ashley		Nick! He wants to know how to rob it, and he'll leave you alone! That's all he wants!  I hate him, Nick... you know how...
rudy		So get him outta your life. Get out of Michigan. They got perfume counters in Chicago, don't they?
ashley		Not without you.
rudy		Since when do some trucker pals start thinking big, anyway?
ashley		They run routes mostly east, retail stuff, warehouses. But Gabriel knows some guys in New York, Miami, guys he helps get guns to Detroit. Hides 'em with his regular loads.
rudy		He working for them on this one?
ashley		No. He wants to be working for himself someday.
rudy		And I'm his ticket.  What's the last place they took down?
ashley		What?
rudy		Gabriel and his guys. What's the last place they robbed?
ashley		I don't think they've ever robbed anything before. I think they've just driven guns.
rudy		They've never done a robbery?
ashley		 They're truck drivers.
rudy		Then they do need me, don't they. They really need me...
ashley		We're gonna get out of here, Nick. We're gonna get out of this...
rudy		We? What "we"...
rudy		Get your own room, Ashley.
ashley		Nick...
rudy		Get your own room.
ashley		If I'd told you what he wanted, you'd have been gone. You'd have gotten on that bus and stayed on it. And if that's selfish, I am. If that's lying, I'm a liar. But I been dealing with fucked-up brother and his fucked-up friends for a long time, and I was stronger than him then and I'm stronger than him now. 'Cause he showed up for money. I showed up for love.  And if you're so ready to make me your enemy... then what did you show up for, Nick. What did you really want... with me...
rudy		They've never done a robbery...  Christmas is looking up.
merlin		Having romance problems, Romeo?
rudy		Not with you.
pug		Goddamn, Merlin. There any part of the day you don't smoke?
merlin		There anytime you don't got a mouthful of shit?
pug		Cancer-sucker.
merlin		Acid-chewer.
gabriel		Take a look what Pug's bought for ya.
rudy		A cowboy. You're going to send me into an Indian casino disguised as a cowboy. Have you thought this entirely through?
gabriel		Put it on.
gabriel		You're a country-western singer up from Nashville for the the holidays. Visiting your Grandma on the lake, driving into the Tomahawk for some scotch and slots. You only play the slots, you got that? Don't want no dealer friend of yours recognizing you, you sidle up to shoot some craps.
rudy		What kind of half-ass cowboy plays the slots?
gabriel		You do.
rudy		At least gimme video poker.
gabriel		Shut the fuck up. You play what your girlfriend plays. Ashley's going in with you. You talk to her, otherwise you don't talk to nobody. You walk the room as many times as you want, but the second you come out, I want to know the run of the place.
rudy		Do I get a country-western name?
gabriel		You get recognized, convict, You get a country-western funeral.
rudy		Y'know what, guys? I woke up this morning, I got a really lucky feeling going on. I mean it, I'm feeling that good. I wouldn't be surprised if I walk in there, pull a handle and hit jackpot. Hell, we wouldn't even have to --
gabriel		Get out.
ashley		Get your goddamn hands off me --
gabriel		You got one hour.
rudy		I'm gonna need some money.
rudy		Ten dollars? What do I do with ten dollars?
gabriel		Don't tip.
rudy		Monster. If we're working together here, we gotta be working together. I can't walk in there looking like the Lone Fucking Ranger with ten bucks to throw down. You don't want me getting noticed, right? Not getting noticed costs a guy at least a couple hundred.
gabriel		 Don't. Lose.
rudy		You ready to gamble, darlin'?
rudy		 Y'all take care of my guitar.
merlin		 Who's robbin' who here, Gabriel...
gabriel		Get in there and watch 'em. Watch their every fuckin' move.
jack bangs		There's an S-word I'd really like to throw in the discussion here, guys, cause it's a big part of what's going on. Big element, 'kay? S-word. It's a serious issue, serious factor, so I'm just gonna get it out there, throw it an out there, so we can know it, we can talk about it, we can get things done...  Snow. Are you with me, guys? Snow. Big time, fucking, grade-A, God- quality, S-N-O-W-snow.
jack bangs		There's no snow in Vegas, 'kay? They don't know it, they don't want it, they got laws against the stuff. They got Egypt down there, right, they got Monte Carlo, Hawaii, they got ancient Rome, but where's the Winter Castle, right? Where's the Swiss miss Chalet? Where's the Big Fucking Igloo?
young governor		We understand you, Mr. Bangs.
jack bangs		Capades? They don't do it. Mittens? Outlawed. Why?
young governor		We're aware of your position.
jack bangs		 You wanted Vegas quality, I brought it to you. You wanted Vegas press, I gave it to you. But guys, please, guys... I can't get you Vegas profits... till one of ya does some spirit dance and does something about this snow.
old governor		We understand the Paiutes' casino saw a net profit of twelve million dollars last year.
jack bangs		The Paiutes, they cook their books.
old governor		The Waitela reservation made seventeen million.
jack bangs		 Seventeen?
old governor		Perhaps you have researched this, Mr. Bangs. Is the snowfall on our side of the lake that much greater than the snowfall on theirs?
jack bangs		I'm bringing in this great showroom act next week; these three Russian girls, they look like Meryl Streep, they can juggle anything.
young governor		Mr. Bangs.
jack bangs		Guys. We're doing it right, here. $5.99 prime rib? Nobody does that in Michigan. Nobody.
young governor		The tribe is concerned that many of your... new ideas are not resulting in any new venues.
jack bangs		I'm putting liquor in the drinks, I'm giving 10-times odds on craps, I got the girls showing sixteen-percent more skin! Show me another buffet's gonna offer you Coke and Pepsi! Whaddya want me to do?!
young governor		We want to see our casino making money again, Mr. Bangs. Making money for our community.
old governor		Like the Paiutes and the Waitela.
young governor		We want you doing the job... that we brought you here to do.
ashley		So does it look a lot different?
rudy		Here and there. Restaurant, uh, that's the main expansion. Tables've been moved around; the big man's office, I dunno, might be upstairs now.
ashley		That guy knows you?
rudy		Yeah, uh. Mike. That's Mike.
rudy		You start spending your brother's money. I'm gonna take a circuit around the joint, check for any new ins and outs. I'll snag us some drinks.
ashley		 Be careful, Nick...
rudy		Couple rum and Cokes, please.
indian bartender		You want that rum and Coke or rum and Pepsi?
jack bangs		I can't go back to Vegas, Bear. They'll fuckin' kill me, 'kay? I can't go back...
bartender		What does the tribe want?
jack bangs		They want gold-paved roads is what they want. Talking 'bout the fuckin' Paiutes. Fuckin' Paiutes are on the interstate. Nothing I can do about that, man, I didn't pick the spot for your reservation.
bartender		Neither did we.
jack bangs		Yeah, yeah, whatever.
jack bangs		Hey. Hey, cowboy. Jack Bangs, I run the place. Nice to have you in the Tomahawk. Tell me something...
jack bangs		...does upstate Michigan need another roadside casino or does upstate Michigan need an international gaming destination?
rudy		 Roadside casino?
jack bangs		Well, so how'd you hear about this place, then. Word-of-mouth? Mass mailings? Cable TV?
rudy		Prison.
jack bangs		Prison?!
fat guy		I just stopped in to use the can.
jack bangs		I can't go back to Vegas, Bear... I can't...
jack bangs		Aw fuck.
merlin		What the hell was that about --
rudy		He didn't recognize me. Back off, willya? He didn't recognize me.
ashley		Hey Nick! We're up fifty cents!
rudy		Heyyyy!
ashley		Nick, what happened --
rudy		There went my... damn... well, doesn't seem like security's all that switched... Ash, shit, this mustache is starting to fall off. I gotta fix this thing --  -- drink this for me.
jumpy		What happened?
ashley		He started losing his hair.
rudy		Hundred bucks to wear this jacket --
college kid		Jesus, man, don't kill me!
rudy		Nobody's killing you, kid. Santa's giving you a rhinestone jacket and a hundred bucks.
merlin		Thanks, sister. How are ya.
waitress		Fuckin' freezing.
merlin		Hell yeah. You work here long?
waitress		Five years. Since it opened.
merlin		How long ago was your makeover?
waitress		My what?!
merlin		No, the place. The remodeling. moving everything around.
waitress		The Tomahawk's looked the same since I started, mister.  Only the losers change.
rudy		GO! GO!
gabriel		Where the hell's he going?
pug		Where the hell's your sister?
gabriel		Get him!
college kid		 Oh man. It's your jacket, isn't it...
jumpy		Trouble.
rudy		MEDIUM RARE?! You call this MEDIUM RARE??!!
gabriel		Where the HELL did he go?
merlin		Monster. There never was a structure change. This place was built the same from day one.
pug		That motherfucker --
merlin		And Monster... he was talking with the casino manager. Nick was talking to him.
gabriel		Get. Him. Back.
merlin		You keep running, Nick! Keep running now! Can't keep warm if you don't keep running! We'll just be right back here... keeping track of your trail.
ashley		No!!!
ashley		RUN!!!
rudy		That's for reading her mail.
rudy		Come on.
rudy		We get to the bridge, we're all right!
ashley		Nick, the ice is --
rudy		Get to the bridge!  HEY! HEY! DOWN HERE!
gabriel		 At the rate you're going, Nick... I'm gonna have a hard time ever considering you family.
gabriel		How lucky ya feeling now.
rudy		I-I-I-I have n-n-no g-g-gifts to br- br-bring, pa rum-p-p-p-p-p  ...king.
rudy		Pa-rum-pum-pum-pum.
merlin		Game room's closed.
gabriel		A for effort, Nick, honestly, A for effort and an honorary degree. I'm surprised you never escaped from the Mountain.
rudy		 ...never... tried...
gabriel		Nick, here's what we're gonna do. In the spirit of the season, I'm going to give you a chance. I understand you're unhappy. Right outta the lockup, here against your will, it's the holidays and there's reruns on TV.  So we're gonna have a contest.
gabriel		We're each going to get one of these. Whichever one of us hits closer to the bullseye... gets what he wants.  You land closer, you get Ashley. And you guys get to go free. I land closer... and we start getting your help.
gabriel		May the best sportsman win.
gabriel		Damn.
gabriel		Got something to say to me, Nick?
rudy		...ttt..tt... two out of three?
gabriel		What'd you tell that casino manager?
rudy		Nnn... nothing...
gabriel		You were talking to him! What'd you tell him!?
rudy		Nothing... I promise-nothing...
gabriel		MAYBE SOMETHING ABOUT A ROBBERY?
rudy		NO!
rudy		He thought I was some gambler... he didn't know me... he didn't recognize me!
gabriel		I been driving rigs a long time, Nick. Four, five million miles of road. Worked for people who wouldn't keep me on less I was driving fifteen hours a day. Tell 'em I needed sleep, I needed rest, shit, they'll hire someone else...
gabriel		...Dispatcher's screaming for me to haul ass, he's got a load on the runback for me. Shipper's making me wait for the pickup, receiver's bitching 'bout the count...
gabriel		...Got the cops at the bottom of every mountain, got the DOT at the top. And every day, every day, I see all those faces in their little airbag Hot Wheels, moms and pops and jam- faced kiddies, giving me that look to go to hell and get off their happy goddamn highway. Hey. They don't gotta get two thousand miles by sundown, or the gang don't eat come sunrise.
gabriel		It's time for me... to be working for me. I want mine, Nick. And I need you.  Did you tell your manager there's gonna be a robbery?
rudy		No, Gabriel... no...
rudy		...he... he asked me... how I'd heard about his place... he didn't know it was me...
rudy		I PROMISE YOU HE DIDN'T KNOW IT WAS ME!
rudy		Man, Monster... just... just don't start trying to hit me...
gabriel		Nick. I been trying to hit you.
gabriel		Maybe that'll help sharpen your memory.
gabriel		Tonight we're gonna take another look at that map. And this time you're gonna tell me what I need to know.
ashley		Nick! Jesus, Nick --
merlin		Pug.
merlin		PUG!
ashley		Nick, oh my God, what'd he do to you? What'd he do?
rudy		He had some points to make...
ashley		Jesus Christ, stay here, don't move, stay right here --
rudy		 All I wanted... was to make it home... for a little of Dad's turkey, and Mom's stuffing... Aunt Lisbeth's acorn gravy... Aunt Mary's cranberry buns...
ashley		We'll get there, baby... we'll get there...
rudy		...Haven't had cranberry buns... in five whole years...
ashley		Shh, now. Rest now. Two years, Nick. You haven't had cranberry buns in two years.
ashley		You saved my life.  You could have run, but you didn't. You saved me.
rudy		You saved me.
ashley		I saved you because I love you, Nick.  Why'd you save me?
rudy		Guy I was in with... car thief... I used to read your letters to him. I know they were private... I know, but... you spend twenty-four hours a day with somebody, you gotta talk, y'know? You gotta share. Or the room gets even smaller.  Some nights I think he fell in love with you, too.
rudy		You gave a couple guys hope, Ashley. And with hope, there ain't nothing you can't survive.
ashley		I'm sorry, Nick... I'm so sorry...
rudy		Don't say my name...
ashley		I love you, Nick...
rudy		Ash. Don't say it. Don't say my name.
ashley		 I love you...
rudy		They'll have guns.
ashley		What?
rudy		You said they've run guns, in their trucks. So they'll have guns. To do this robbery. They'll have serious guns.
ashley		I don't know...
rudy		We'll need one.
rudy		I'm going to have to be inside that casino. When it happens. I'll need to be part of it. I can't just be drawing some map.
ashley		Nick, what are you talking about?
rudy		We need to find a way to make me part of it.
ashley		Part of... with them?
rudy		If we're helping them with their robbery, we're gonna be doing more than just walking away. Like that's some Christmas bonus.
rudy		You want him outta your life? You want a real New Year to look forward to?  If we're gonna do this... we're gonna do it to get it all.
pug		Knew a guy in Joliet, smoked ten packs a day like you. His lungs got so black they couldn't find 'em with an x-ray.
merlin		That right? Shit. I used to run rigs for a guy loved your chaw there. Shit rotted out his tongue, had to build him one outta silicon so the poor boy could talk. You ever see a motherfucker with a silicon fucking tongue?
pug		Hell. The guy from Joliet, those black-ass lungs were the least of his problems. Got so much smoke in him his lungs couldn't even hold it. Got into his system, man. Into his blood. Coming out his ears, man, coming out his eyes. Guy'd be walking the row, smoke'd be puffing out his skin.
merlin		This trucker? Met a girl in a bar one night, she didn't know his situation. He's drunk, she's drunk, they get to mackin' hot and heavy and the woman swallows it. His tongue. Sucks it right down.
pug		My guy would walk into a room, set off the goddamn sprinklers.
merlin		His lips went next. You ever see some silicon-fucking-lips?
merlin		 Vegetarians...
gabriel		Start singing.
rudy		I have no gifts to bring, pa-rumpum- pum-pum
gabriel		Sing it in pictures, Nick.
rudy		What you gotta worry about first is the guards. Place doesn't look much richer than when I worked there, so let's figure you're gonna have to deal with ten of 'em. There'll be two on the floor, walking the room, that leaves eight up above. Eyes in the sky. They see something up, they're the ones who'll hit the silent alarm and you're fucked.
merlin		How do we take them out?
rudy		You gotta get someone upstairs.
merlin		How do we do that?
rudy		Across from blackjack, there's a security doorway. Keypad access.
gabriel		What's the code?
rudy		Uh... they change it every month. I wouldn't know.  If there's trouble on the floor, you'll get security coming through. what you gotta do, is get inside that doorway once they do. You gotta draw 'em out.
pug		Without having them hit the alarms.
rudy		I got an idea on that one. Once you're up there, you gotta hold those guards down till some backup can get there. There's a security camera room that videotapes everything. You've gotta destroy every last one of those tapes.
merlin		What about the money?
rudy		You lock down security, you move behind the cage. You hit the Count Room. There'll be a guy in there but he's got no guns; room's accessed by another code. Cashiers'll know it. They'll have alarms.
jumpy		What about the Powwow Safe?
rudy		What?
jumpy		The Powwow Safe. The secret safe. You said the manager's got a safe in his office where he hides skim money.
rudy		Oh. Right. Yeah. That's, uh upstairs. Uh. Here. Powwow Safe.
rudy		So. You're gonna need a man through here, two men at the cage, one to cover the count. You're gonna need a lookout outside, a sweeper through the back, and a gun guarding the front.  You need six.
gabriel		We got five. Putting Ashley outside.
rudy		You need six.
gabriel		NO.
rudy		You go in with five, you're either leaving an alarm free or an exit free. Someone hits an alarm, you're fucked. Someone gets to a phone, gets outside, 'cross the street, whatever, you're fucked. You need six.  Six is me.
gabriel		No.
rudy		You guys get caught, I go away for good. I got an interest in making sure you don't. You need a sixth man covering an exit. What're you gonna do about it.
ashley		Yeah. What're you gonna do about it.
gabriel		I want a map of that security level. Every room, every guard, every thing.
rudy		Six men means six guns.
gabriel		No way.
rudy		I'm no threat without a gun.
gabriel		No, you're not.
rudy		There'll be people in that casino. I can't keep them from leaving if I don't get a gun. I don't need bullets, Monster... but I gotta be a threat.
ashley		What's the matter, Gabriel? This is what you wanted him for, isn't it?
gabriel		No gun.
rudy		Well. What you guys have to plan out, then... is how you're going to get to that cage and that security level before anybody realizes anything's wrong. Running in with ski masks and bullets flying ain't gonna do it.
gabriel		That part, Nick... was planned out the day I read your letters.
rudy		What. We all gonna dress up like cowboys?
gabriel		Not cowboys, Nick. Not cowboys.
gabriel		Not on Christmas Eve.
rudy		You gotta be kidding me.
gabriel		'Tis the season, convict.
gabriel		Can't be attracting attention, right?
rudy		What, we walking in there and delivering toys?
merlin		Hell yeah.
ashley		He wants to see your map.
rudy		I'm almost done.
ashley		He says he wants it now.
rudy		If he wanted a photographic memory, he shoulda kidnapped one. I'm working on it here.
ashley		How are we gonna do this, Nick?
rudy		You're the getaway girl. The money's gonna get to you eventually. Gonna be my job to be the guy who walks outta there with it. But I can't do that without a gun. Any luck talking to him?
ashley		Bullets or no bullets, he won't do it.
rudy		Is there any way you could get into his truck?
ashley		No.
rudy		We need a gun, Ash. We need a gun...
rudy		Here's the Picasso. Is he in his room?
ashley		They all are. Football's on.
rudy		 Keep 'em there for a little while.
rudy		We're gonna get you out of Detroit, Ash. Get you out of beauty and fragrances.  Remember that. After all this is over, when you know me, when you really know me... remember it was me.
rudy		Gun, gun, c'mon, boys like you gotta be keeping a gun...
ashley		...and he's saying "We're not gonna help him just to walk away. If we're gonna help him... we're gonna get it all...
ashley		...he wants to help now, he wants to rob it now we could probably stay right here, he'd go on and rob it by himself --
gabriel		He wants the money.
ashley		No, baby. He wants me.
ashley		He wants... your "sister"...
gabriel		...whoever she is.
ashley		Nick Mason's gonna help us more than we ever dreamed.
gabriel		All those letters are about to pay off, baby... all those letters...
ashley		To all those cons...
gabriel		Searching for a money man...
ashley		We musta written what, twenty of 'em? And they were before this guy. One, two letters apiece, ten to the racetrack guy in Leavenworth --
gabriel		-- till he fucked his parole --
ashley		-- plus the forty to Mason... how many letters is that?
gabriel		That's a book, baby.  That's a book of love.
gabriel		I can't take watching you touch him. I can't take his hands on you.
ashley		One more day, baby. One more day to Christmas.
gabriel		I've been doing good, though.
ashley		Didn't have to hit me so fucking hard. Didn't have to throw me outta the goddamn truck.
gabriel		Didn't have to send me down a fucking mountain.
ashley		What, he should see me help you catch him?
gabriel		Y'know something, baby? If you were my sister? I'd still want to wake up Christmas morning with you...
ashley		Mmm, baby. And I'd still want to be the tinsel round your tree...
rudy		Here's my present to you, truck drivers --
jumpy		With his girlfriend. Making up for "Nick" time. I'm going down to the bar, you want something?
merlin		Get me a brew. I'm gonna check on our convict.
rudy		Catch, dammit, catch! Like riding a bike, it's like riding a bike!
rudy		How far you gonna get, Rudy...
merlin		My room.
rudy		Hey.
ashley		Merry Christmas-Eve, my love. My love, my love. Merry Christmas-Eve...
gabriel		Checking out.
ashley		Gabriel!
gabriel		That's for the hundred bucks worth of pay-per-view.  And that's for the two hundred you took outta your minibar.
rudy		 You guys were paying for the room, I just figured --
gabriel		 You wanted a weapon, convict? You got one.
gabriel		Merry Christmas-Eve.
gabriel		Commit this thing to memory. Every guard, every exit... don't tape it to your fuckin, wrist: remember it. That's the Gospel right there. The Gospel. Matthew, Mark, Luke and John...
ashley		Where should we go, Nick? When we're gone from here... where should we go...
rudy		This time right now... Dad's stacking wood out back, getting ready for tomorrow. Little blaze in the fireplace. Mom's setting out the good silver, hanging her cinammon sticks, up in the doorways. Getting out her scratchy old records... singing along...
rudy		I don't know where you're going. But I'm going home.
ashley		We go together, Nick. Wherever... we go together. Remember?
rudy		Well. I'm going home.
jack bangs		And all through the house... not a creature was stirring...  Why don't you go ahead and send most of your guys home, Ed.
security boss		Thanks, Jack. Merry X-mas.
jack bangs		Hell. Nobody even comes here to cheat...
gabriel		Go.
rudy		Hey Jumpy, I want to ask you something. You have any problem with the fact that we're on our way to take millions of dollars from an Indian casino?
jumpy		Nick. It's true that Indian gaming's gone a long way toward restoring wealth and pride to communities who've been economically isolated and enslaved for centuries. Stronger infrastructure, better schools, higher employment... they're all the results of reservation casino success stories. Still, many natives believe that these are temples to a godless materialism and greed that will only infect the souls of indigenous peoples until their love of money has destroyed the spiritual values their ancestors died to protect and their homelands have become no different from any United States suburb, satellite city or industrial park. Destroying the Indian legacy once and for all and leaving behind a nation of selfish, angry natives, of which I, it's true, am one --
rudy		Hey-hey, egg nog for everybody!
rudy		Let's win some MONEY! MONEY-MONEY- MONEY!
security boss		How you gentlemen doing tonight?
rudy		We're out of work tonight, that's how! Christmas Eve! We're out of work!
jumpy		 Hi, Santa Claus, how are you. He's with Sears, I'm with Wal-Mart, twas the season...
rudy		We're all outta gifts, boys and girls, but we got charitable donations!
jumpy		...bunch of us got together for the union party. Hey, how late are you open?
security boss		 All night and all day.
rudy		I got wampum for the Cocktail Waitress Civil Defense Fund! Are there any representatives here present?
waitress		What can I get ya, Santa?
rudy		Santa drinks American beer.
security boss		 What's your game, guys?
jumpy		Blackjack. Got a buddy from Woolworth's out parking the sleigh.
security boss		Good luck, gentlemen.
ashley		Three minutes.
rudy		 That was my card, pop! My card! You hit for my card!
old timer		I... sorry, Mister...
rudy		That was my king!
old timer		Well...sorry...
jumpy		 How are you tonight?
waitress		Fuckin' freezing. What can I get ya, Santa?
jumpy		Jack and Coke.
waitress		Want that Jack and Coke or Jack and Pepsi?
jumpy		Woolworth's!
gabriel		Hey, Sears! Hey, Wal-Mart!
jumpy		Saved you a seat, man. Get in on a hand here!
rudy		 Careful. Watch out for this guy.
waitress		What can I get ya, Santa?
gabriel		American beer.
rudy		POP! That was My card!
old timer		But... I had a five...
rudy		You're hitting for MY cards!
ashley		Go.
jumpy		Could Fat-Man-With-Flying-Horse get some quarters, please?
gabriel		Be back, Wal-Mart. Watch my bank.
rudy		That is my card, guy. My card.
dealer		He hit, mister.
rudy		He didn't hit.  You didn't hit. You're not hitting.
old timer		But you don't even know what it is!
video guard		There's two more coming.
jack bangs		Hell, there we go. That's the spirit.
security boss		Jack? Is there a union for department store Santas?
rudy		Switch seats with me.
old timer		What? No...
rudy		You're taking my money. Switch seats with me. Switch seats with me if you're not taking my money --
old timer		I'm ninety-two years old --
rudy		Then get yourself another table! You're hitting Santa's cards and you're taking Santa's money!
old timer		There is no other table --
rudy		THEY'LL OPEN ONE!
rudy		 Stay down, pop! Trust me, stay down!
security boss		Help them down there! HELP them!
gabriel		Video room, video room --
gabriel		Map said video room --
gabriel		Map said goddamn video room!
gabriel		WHAT THE FUCK IS GOING ON??!!!
jumpy		Step BACK from the desks!
merlin		DROP 'EM! DROP, DROP, DROP!!!
rudy		 DROP THE GUNS! NOW!
merlin		Hold it right there, Nick. Your squirt gun's all you need.
merlin		Cover 'em.
rudy		Sorry, guys. But what the hell were you doing here an Christmas Eve anyway.
jack bangs		No... not here... please... mister...
jack bangs		Mister. I'm begging, 'kay? I'm begging. This is not some card club, 'kay? This is the Tomahawk. We're an international gaming destination. We're in guidebooks. You can't do this... you can't do this to me...
gabriel		Show's over.
rudy		Get down and stay down, and you're gonna be fine. Just don't do anything. My friends are disturbed --
pug		What's the security code to the Count Room?
pug		NICK SAID SECURITY CODE!
merlin		You said no GUNS in there! NO GUNS!
firemen		DROP IT! DROP THE GUNS!
ashley		 WHERE'S THE FUCKING CASH, NICK!
rudy		Yeah. That's love.
ashley		MOVE, MOVE, MOVE!
merlin		You knew there were guns in here!
rudy		Merlin, I didn't know --
merlin		You got Pug killed! You tried to get ME killed! You just lost your Get- Outta-Jail-Free --
rudy		I promise you, I didn't know!
jack bangs		I can't go back to Vegas... I can't... go back...
gabriel		I told you not to fuck us with that map, Nick. I told you not to, and you did. How am I s'posed to keep my promises now?  How's she s'posed to keep hers?
gabriel		He won't tell us where it is. The Powwow Safe.
jack bangs		I don't know... what you're...
gabriel		THE POWWOW SAFE! WHERE IS THE POWWOW SAFE!
jack bangs		What... Powwow...
gabriel		The Powwow Safe where you steal your money! Where you cheat your Indians!
jack bangs		I don't steal any --
gabriel		We KNOW about the Powwow Safe! We KNOW it's in here! We KNOW how you work! Because WE know who's worked for you!  Remember a guy named Nick Mason!?  A security guard named Nick Mason!?
jack bangs		Nick... Mason... ?
jack bangs		...so where is he?
gabriel		 Where is he?! Where is he?!
jack bangs		He's not Nick Mason...
jack bangs		Nick Mason... worked for me two years ago. This man...  ...he's some cowboy...
rudy		Fucked the wrong guy, Ashley.  Story of your life.
rudy		I did time with Nick Mason, Monster. Told you that from the start.
ashley		You... you... YOU --
rudy		We still gonna spend Christmas together?
gabriel		You are lucky, convict. You're spending Christmas with the birthday boy himself --
rudy		Hey! HEY! THERE IS A POWWOW SAFE!
rudy		I did time with Nick Mason, remember? I knew he worked here, didn't I!? Well, some shit he told me!
rudy		Nick told me his manager kept a safe in his office, his stealing safe. His Powwow Safe. I swear, please... Nick told me.  Behind the liquor cabinet.
gabriel		Open it.
jack bangs		I can't go back to Vegas...
gabriel		OPEN IT!!!
rudy		 Pow. Wow.
jack bangs		VEEEEGGGGAAAASSSS!!!
jack bangs		I CAN'T! GO BACK! I CAN'T! GO BACK! I CAN'T! GO BACK!
gabriel		GO!!!
merlin		Hell. I'm gonna take pleasure in this...
rudy		Me too.
rudy		Smoke 'em if you got 'em.
rudy		I'm sorry.
jack bangs		That's why they call it gambling.
ashley		Your turn.
gabriel		With the wrong fucking guy! We took the place down with the wrong fucking guy! Is that Christmas?! Huh?! Is that Christmas?!
gabriel		God bless us every one...
gabriel		You almost got away with it, Santa. Got outta the Tomahawk, got to your car, got halfway to Canada till you caught some ice in the road. By the time you hit bottom down there, whole car was burning like a comet.  Musta burned up all that money too.
gabriel		Buncha guys in red suits busted in, they'll say. Started shooting. They won't be able to remember... if it was three, or four... or five. Four dead Santas and some burned-up cash. Merry Christmas, The End.
rudy		Was it your plan, Monster? Or was it hers.
gabriel		She told me 'bout the convict magazines. Had to figure there'd be some boys in the pen with some useful knowledge. With nobody to talk to. Nobody to listen. So we stocked up on stationery.
gabriel		Hard life being a trucker's girl.
rudy		I saved your life.
ashley		You shouldn't have.
rudy		He did love you, you know. Nick. He did love you.
ashley		Who wouldn't.
rudy		Maybe this is where you wanted him, Ashley. At the bottom of a ravine, dead as ice with a burnt-up heart. Maybe. But it didn't happen. 'Cause what you did for him was make him the happiest held ever been. You showed him hope and taught him mercy. And he died a peaceful man. You wanted to destroy some convict... and all you did was save his soul. Remember that. Love your money and remember that.
ashley		Merry Christmas, Rudy.
rudy		I'm glad it was me.
ashley		Merry Christmas.
gabriel		Get in the car.
gabriel		Get in the CAR!
rudy		How'd you know my name...
ashley		What?
rudy		Rudy. How'd you know my name?
ashley		What are you talking about?
rudy		You said Merry Christmas, Rudy.
ashley		I... you told me your name was Rudy. You told me a million times, back in the truck, telling me you weren't Nick --
rudy		No --
ashley		You were screaming you weren't Nick! And we just didn't fucking believe you!
rudy		But I never said Rudy.
ashley		You said it a million times!
rudy		I never told you my name.
gabriel		Ash?
rudy		How'd you know my name was Rudy.
gabriel		Ash?
rudy		How'd you know my name.
ashley		Men.
rudy		Where is he.
nick		Merry Christmas, Rudy.
nick		I missed you, beautiful.
ashley		I missed you too, Nicky baby.
ashley		For your information. I never fuck the wrong guy.
nick		Oh, hey. Have you two been properly introduced? Sweetness, this is Rudy Duncan, I did almost a year with him in the Mountain. Read him all your letters, talked about you all the time, made him feel like he really knew you.  My friend... wantcha to meet Millie Bobek. 'Member Millie Bobek, dontcha? My girlfriend fore I went in? Worked at that bar in Motor City, where I manslaughtered that guy? Hell. Didn't talk about her much once the Ashley letters started coming, I guess.
nick		Millie here used to serve drinks to these gunrunning truckers, real big talkers, talking bout a real score one day. I was in the Mountain, man, what the hell, why not let her get friendly with 'em? Let her tell 'em an idea she had, 'bout writing guys in prison. Getting one who could show 'em a sure thing.
rudy		She set them up. All of them.
nick		Why not have her pretend to find me? Pretend to write me and reel me in? Tell her new trucker-man she'd pose as some sister of his named Ashley?
rudy		And you set me up.
nick		Always wanted to rob that casino, Rudy. Way back when I worked there. What better way than to get some guys to rob it for me.
nick		Paid the Alamo ten bucks to put the shiv in me. He's a lifer, what does he care. Paid a hospital guard fifty to put out the story I was dead. Once the wound healed up...  Got out of the Mountain this morning. And tonight I'm a rich man.
rudy		How'd you know I'd do it.
nick		Do what?
rudy		Walk outta there and tell her I was you.
nick		Because every time I read her letters, Rudy... you listened.  Keep your gun on him.
nick		Five Santas walked into that Tomahawk, Rudy. That's what the witnesses'll say. So we gotta have five Santas not walk out. Gotta have five...  This'll burn right away... in the fire...
nick		Hell, you never needed to convince Ashley you were me. Just the dumb fucking truckers. I figured I'd talked enough about the Tomahawk in the pen for you to get by --
rudy		Talked about the old man's weapons stash, probably forgot I'd remember
nick		Hm. Well. They'd have killed you if you weren't me, Rudy. We knew you'd start convincing 'em soon enough.
nick		They had the weapons and the willpower. We just gave them their inside man.
rudy		You gave them me.
nick		I gave them me.  Said some nice things about me, Rudy. I appreciate it. But don't worry. I do love her. And she loves me. You had that right all along.
nick		Sweetness! Let's light up the tree!
nick		Goodbye, Rudy! Nice spending time with you!
rudy		LIKE RIDING A BIKE, LIKE RIDING A BIKE, LIKE RIDING A BIIIIIKE!
rudy		RULE ONE! NEVER PUT A CAR THIEF BEHIND THE WHEEL!
ashley		NOOOOOOO!!!
rudy		RULE TWO!
nick		...Rudy... help me... Rudy...
mother		Rudy...? Rudy?
father		Son? Is... is that you...?
****Dialogues from script :Relic.txt****

whittlesley		Faster!  We won't make it.
driver		You want to die?
whittlesley		Do you?
whittlesley		Thank God.
whittlesley		I need to speak to the captain! Where is he?
whittlesley		Get your hands off me!  I'm trying to save your lives, you fools!
franco		American?
whittlesley		Yes.  Thank Christ somebody speaks English.  I'm Dr. John Whittlesley. You have some crates of mine on board.  They were shipped by mistake to the Natural History Museum.  We have to get them off the boat.
franco		You have I.D.?
whittlesley		No.  Let me explain.  I was on an expedition for the museum on the Upper Xingu.  Something horrible happened.  I'm the only one who got out alive.  I lost everything, my I.D., everything.  I have to make sure no one else dies.  The crates, the crates were sent out before we knew.  There's something unspeakable inside.  If your boat leaves harbor with those crates on board, I can't be responsible.  My God, if they reach New York...
franco		Loco.
whittlesley		No!  I'm not crazy!  As God is my witness, I'm telling the truth.
whittlesley		Don't do this!  You have to believe me.  Your lives are in danger.
whittlesley		Cash.  Cash, you see?  American money.
whittlesley		No!
whittlesley		No... no...
pendergast		 Any of your men go on board?
guard		Morning, Dr. Green.
margo		Morning Joe.  Beautiful day.
henry		You work here?
margo		Yes, I do.
henry		What do you do?
margo		 I'm an Evolutionary Biologist.  What do you do?
henry		Nothing.  I'm in third grade.  What's a revolutionary what ch'a ma' callit?
margo		Evolutionary Biologist.  I study how life on earth evolved over millions of years.
henry		 Way cool.  Then you know where the dinosaurs are.
margo		Fourth floor, West wing, but stay with your class.
margo		Hello, Ian.  Everything ready for the opening of the Superstition Exhibit?
cuthbert		I'm on my way to get the last piece out of storage right now.
margo		I'd wish you luck but I'm not superstitious.
cuthbert		You will be after tomorrow night.
cuthbert		What the... ?
cuthbert		No, it can't be.
cuthbert		Damn.
cuthbert		Beauregard!  You scared me half to death.
beauregard		I'm sorry, sir.  You okay?
cuthbert		Someone broke into this room.
beauregard		Anything missin'?
cuthbert		Doesn't look like it.  We're damned lucky.  This statue is priceless.
cuthbert		Mbwun.  A South American warrior deity.  He carries a powerful curse. Every member of the expedition that found this statue, died.
beauregard		Looks like the curse is still at work.
cuthbert		The claws are sharp... I must have cut myself.  Better move these crates to the secure storage area where they'll be safe.
beauregard		Don't know if it'll do any good, Mr. Cuthbert.
cuthbert		Why not?
beauregard		No one broke into this room, sir. Someone broke out.  That lock was torn off from the inside.
kawakita		Third from the end!  Right shoulder. Aleut, provenance unknown.
kawakita		If I spent half the time on my Fractal Evolution thesis that I spend on this fly rod, I'd have my PhD.
margo		 But at what a price.
margo		I have the species identification on these teeth.  We can extract DNA and start running tests on the extrapolator program.  Call Dr. Frock.  He wanted a demonstration.
kawakita		Margo, you haven't heard?
margo		What?
kawakita		Frock's been fired.
margo		That's impossible.
kawakita		 I'm sorry to be the bearer of bad tidings, but you know me.  Telegraph. Telephone.  Tell Kawakita.  I got the definitive word from Cuthbert's secretary.  This is Dr. Frock's last week.
margo		Is it true?  Greg said you'd been fired.
frock		Yes.  Bit of a shock.  But as Cuthbert so tactfully put it, the museum needs new blood.  And since I've been here since the Mesozoic Era --
margo		I don't believe it.
frock		Now Margo, don't overreact.  Cuthbert has to cut costs somehow.  My leaving makes perfect sense.  This isn't exactly early retirement.  I've overstayed the party a bit.
margo		We can't do without you.  You're one of the foremost authorities on primitive pharmacology.  You're practically an institution around here.
frock		That, apparently, is the problem. I'm yesterday's news.  Who needs a Curator of Plant Biology in a museum with one exhibit on plants?  Monsters and dinosaurs, cannibals and shamans are the new currency of the realm.
margo		"Phyletic Transformation and the Tertiary Fern Spike" is not going anywhere.  I'll talk to Cuthbert and put a stop to this right now.
frock		Please.  Don't humiliate me further.
margo		Let me help.  I can take care of everything.
frock		No, Margo.  This is one problem you can't solve.  You have to stay out of it.  The fact is, I want to retire.
margo		How can you say that?  You know it's not true.
frock		Yes it is.  I'm tired and I'm no longer needed --
margo		My work on fossil intermediates would be crippled without you.
frock		With all due respect, dear, that's bull.  You dance rings around me with your new technology.  You've left me in the dust.
margo		 Your work is highly relevant.  What about your display on Primitive Pharmacology?  Cuthbert told me himself he was going to feature it prominently in the Superstition Exhibit.
frock		Healing plant use among the Ki tribe of Bechuanaland has been cancelled to make room for Tibetan Erotic Art.
frock		Come on.  I'll walk you back to the elevator.
margo		I'm not giving up.
frock		You must.
frock		This isn't a death sentence.  Greg has promised to teach me fly fishing.  I'll garden.  I'll write.
margo		You are this museum.  It won't be the same without you.
frock		Everyone needs a change of scenery. I've been rolling down these halls for forty-odd years.  That's quite enough.
frock		I'll see you at lunch.
henry		Mrs. Beasley, it's almost time to go and we still haven't seen the dinosaurs!
beasley		If you ask me about the dinosaurs once more, I'II strangle you both!
larry		 This room sucks.
henry		She's never going to take us to see the dinosaurs.  That lady said they were on the fourth floor.
larry		Let's ditch and find them ourselves.
larry		Look at this.  A Komodo dragon.
henry		Check out this one.  It can walk up walls.
larry		We're not supposed to go back there.
henry		Chicken.  This is a great short cut.
larry		I don't want to go this way.
henry		Don't be a wuss.  Come on.
henry		Hey, there's a secret staircase back here.  Cool.
larry		Henry, come back!
larry		Henry!  Henry!
larry		Henry?
larry		Henry!  Come up!  Please!
larry		Henry?  Where are you?  Henry?
larry		Henry!  Henry!  It smells awful. Answer me!  Are you all right?
henry		Quiet!
larry		What is it?
henry		I don't know.  But I think it's bad.
cop		ID.
margo		What's going on?
cop		All employees are to go to the IMAX room for a briefing, Dr. Green.
cop one		What was that?  Six?
cop two		Lost count.
pendergast		Could you please take me to the officer in charge?
pendergast		Special Agent Pendergast.  FBI.
pendergast		Not at all.  I think we may be working on the same case.  If so, I could use your help.
pendergast		The body?
pendergast		Mind if I have a look?
pendergast		Where's the head?
pendergast		Whose footprints?
pendergast		Yes, I'd say we're definitely working on the same case.
margo		Dr. Frock, I just saw a man back there who'd been wading in blood.
kawakita		Someone's been murdered.  Not shot, strangled or stabbed, either.  Torn limb from limb.  There's talk of a psychotic killer or even an animal.
frock		For heaven's sake, Greg, someone's been killed.  Look, it's Cuthbert. Let's hear what really happened.
cuthbert		This has been a tragic and upsetting morning.  I have terrible news for us all.  A member of our security force has been found murdered.  The police have just informed me it was Daniel Beauregard.  Quiet.  Please.  With the help of our head of security, Mr. Ippolito... the museum has been secured.
cuthbert		The police are satisfied we're in no danger, that we're all perfectly safe.  We've been asked to remain in the Gem Room and be available for questioning for the rest of the day. Obviously, we will all do everything we can to cooperate.  Are there any questions?
ippolito		The party for the opening of the Superstition Exhibit... I imagine in the light of what's happened it will be pushed back.
cuthbert		No action has been taken yet.  The opening of the exhibit is crucial to the financial health of this museum. So for now, we expect that the Superstition Exhibit will open on schedule, tomorrow night.
margo		That Cuthbert.  What a piece of work. Someone's dead and all he cares about is his Superstition Exhibit.
frock		Cuthbert's counting on the exhibition's success.  The museum is in debt.  Contributions and public funding have dried up.  Admissions no longer cover overhead.  The last big infusion of cash we had was the King Tut exhibit.  Cuthbert was hired to get us out of the red.  If the Superstition Exhibit isn't lucrative, he'll have to start auctioning off some of these gems.
kawakita		With all this bad publicity, it's no wonder he looks like that.
frock		Ian.  Are you okay?
cuthbert		 Beauregard.  I can't believe it.  I may have been the last one to see him alive.  He was with me just yesterday, when I got out the statue of Mbwun.
margo		 Mbwun.
kawakita		 What's that?
margo		Warrior deity of the Kothoga, an extinct South American tribe.  Dr. John Whittlesley led an expedition that found the only known representation of Mbwun.  The statue is said to carry a curse.  Every member of Whittlesley's expedition died.
cuthbert		I got the relic out yesterday to put on display.  Beauregard was there. The crates had been broken into and the contents were strewn about.  But nothing was missing.  It was downright weird.  We joked that it was the curse of Mbwun.  I'm not laughing now.
frock		Come, Ian.  We all know you're superstitious.  But you're among scientists here.  We deal in facts. That statue had nothing to do with what happened to Beauregard.
cuthbert		All I know is, everyone who has come in contact with that relic, is dead.
pendergast		An original Roger Tory Peterson of a Red-Breasted Merganser.  Amazing.  I have a copy of this in my office at home.
pendergast		In this violent world, I believe the only way to stay sane is to take time to notice beautiful things.
pendergast		Not at all.  I enjoy the smell of a good cigar.
pendergast		Lieutenant --
pendergast		Did you read about a boat that washed up outside of New Orleans about four months ago?  Twelve bodies on board.
pendergast		Yes.  That's my case.  Now it's yours. All the corpses were badly mutilated in a very particular way. Decapitated.  Brains extracted.  Limbs torn to shreds.  It looked like the work of a large animal, but there was no sign of an animal on board.
pendergast		No.  There's more.  There were crates from this museum in the hold of the boat.
bailey		Uh, Vince.  Sorry.  This won't wait.
bailey		There are a couple of kids who were lost yesterday near the site of the murder.  Claimed they saw a monster. They're pretty determined to tell you their story.  You want to see them?
pendergast		If you don't mind, this could be important.
pendergast		Unfortunately, no.
beasley		This is Henry Weiss and Larry Bowers.
larry		We were lost and trying to find a short cut to the dino--
henry		We were just lost, okay?  And we went down this curvy staircase.  At the bottom was a big shadow.
larry		Big as a house.
henry		Not that big.
larry		Well almost.  Depends which house.  It smelled like old hamburger, and it made this weird noise.
larry		And it snuffled the ground like a dog.
henry		Like this.
larry		It had a long tongue, teeth this big and yellow eyes.
henry		They were green eyes and they were slit like a lizard's.
larry		They were yellow!
henry		You're color blind.
beasley		Boys, please!  These two get in a lot of mischief and they tell some amazing whoppers.
henry		This isn't a whopper!  It's the truth.
pendergast		How did you get away?
henry		We ran and screamed and stuff.  And we got through a little door just in time.  There was a guard there and he went back to check.
pendergast		A guard?  Do you remember his name?
larry		He was wearing one of those I.D. badges.  His name was Bo... something.
larry		Yeah.
pendergast		How do you explain the part about Beauregard?
pendergast		I believed them.
pendergast		No.  I think what we've got here is a psychotic killer wielding some kind of unusual weapon... who wants us to believe he's a monster.
pendergast		I hope you liked it.
pendergast		Someone who makes the Hacksaw Murderer look like Mother Teresa.
pendergast		The thalamus and the hypothalamus, perhaps?
pendergast		If you don't mind a suggestion, you might try a saliva test.
pendergast		Correct.
pendergast		This isn't an animal, Vince.  I've been on this case four months, remember?  I've learned a few things.
pendergast		Let me tell you about it, Vince.
pendergast		Excuse me.  Has Dr. Green left?
kawakita		Before eight?  You must be joking. She's in the physical anthro lab making up for lost time.
pendergast		Dr. Green?
pendergast		Special Agent Pendergast.  FBI. Forgive me.  I guess I was snooping. What is this?
margo		An invention of mine.  It's a computer program designed to describe the characteristics of a given species from a reading of its DNA.  I call it the Genetic Sequence Extrapolator.
pendergast		How does it work?
margo		With a DNA analysis from a fossil you can use this program to tell the species and sex of the animal, whether it was nocturnal, what it ate, how it hunted, how big it was...  You aren't here for a lesson in DNA.
pendergast		No.  I came to talk about Dr. John Whittlesley.
margo		Somehow, when all this happened... I knew it would come back to John.  Is he really dead?
pendergast		Maybe not.
margo		If he were alive he'd have contacted me.
pendergast		You have time to talk?
pendergast		Dr. Whittlesley was last seen in Belem, Venezuela a week after the rest of his expedition disappeared. A taxi driver drove him to the harbor where he boarded a cargo boat.  That boat washed up in my district.  Everyone on board was killed.
margo		And John?
pendergast		Disappeared.  His body wasn't among the victims.
margo		I don't understand.
pendergast		The people killed were mauled and their brains were eaten.  Just like Beauregard.  One part of the brain was extracted with surgical precision.  The hypothalamus and thalamus to be exact.
margo		John couldn't have anything to do with a horrible thing like that.  He was a fine man despite his problems --
pendergast		You loved him.
margo		 Yes.  Once.  We met at Columbia.  John held the Cadwalader Chair in Statistical Paleontology when I was a grad student there.
pendergast		You were going to be married.
margo		How did you know that?
pendergast		I ran an internet search on Dr. Whittlesley.  Got a list of his scholarly articles and the engagement announcement in the Times.  I also found a record of your restraining order.
margo		That was two years ago.  John was still in love with me.  He wouldn't leave me alone.
pendergast		You were afraid of him, weren't you?
margo		He was afraid of himself.  He tried suicide once.  He was ill.  Manic depressive.  He had wild emotional highs and lows.  Not a happy affliction for a scientist.  He'd been revered in our community.  By the end he was a joke.
pendergast		Tell me about the last expedition. What was he looking for?
margo		A legendary monster called Mbwun.
pendergast		A monster?
margo		Yes.  He developed his own theory that he called the Calisto Effect. It held that evolution wasn't always gradual or driven by natural selection.  The environment would sometimes cause sudden and grotesque changes which could result in a "monster species".  It made no sense. But he felt he had evidence that Mbwun was such a monster, living in isolation on the tepui for thousands of years.
pendergast		What happened?
margo		No one knows.  The Kothoga who live on the tepui are cannibals.
margo		No.  I'm all right.  I won't let this affect me anymore.  John wouldn't get help.  His ego endangered the lives of others.  His theory came first.
pendergast		What if Whittlesley arrived on the tepui and no monster was there?  Was he desperate enough to create one?
margo		I don't understand.
pendergast		Something came up in autopsy tonight.  Imbedded in Beauregard's body we found a claw.
margo		My God.  Then it was an animal.
pendergast		I don't think so.  I think we were meant to think it was Mbwun.  Did Whittlesley's monster have claws?
margo		I don't know.  He sent back a statue that's supposed to be an exact representation.  But I've never seen it.  It's in the exhibit.
pendergast		Would you mind showing it to me?
pendergast		Where would we find it?
margo		I'm not sure.  We should split up. You take that hall and I'll take this one.
pendergast		All right.  I'm as macho as you are. Perhaps.
margo		Mr. Pendergast!  I found it.
margo		Pendergast!  Over here --
margo		What the...
margo		Pendergast?  Who's there?
pendergast		Dr. Green!  Dr. Green!
pendergast		What happened?
margo		I don't know.
pendergast		I heard you calling and I ran after you, but you kept disappearing and I couldn't keep up.
margo		 You were behind me?  Running after me?
margo		It's okay, I'm all right.  I remember now... It was an animal.  Something large!  I could smell it.  It was hunting me.  I saw two green eyes in the dark.
pendergast		Where did you see it?
margo		Behind me.  Over there.
margo		That's not what I saw.
pendergast		All right.  If you're positive.
pendergast		Stay in formation together.  Take it room by room.  Check for footprints, any signs of disturbance.  If you see or hear anything the least bit suspicious, I want to know.
pendergast		Bailey's going to be in the guard house outside.  Officer Van Dorn is right down that hall.  When McNitt's done, he'll relieve you.
pendergast		Dr. Green...
margo		I didn't imagine it.  I know what I saw.  Are you sure there are enough men in there?
pendergast		They're all heavily armed.
margo		 All right.  This is hard for me.  I'm a scientist.  I like order and logic. Sometimes too much.  There's got to be an explanation.  There can't be an animal in there.  But I saw something.
pendergast		What was it?
margo		I don't know.  Mr. Pendergast.  Do me a favor.  Get me a DNA readout on that claw.
doyle		Bailey?  Doyle here.  I'm still waiting outside the exhibit.  Where the hell is McNitt?
bailey		Should be there any minute.  They came out a side door a while ago. Said the exhibit's clear.  McNitt's headed back to spell you.
doyle		I'm on double over-time, man.
bailey		I know.  You can go home if you want to.  I'll come relieve you myself.
doyle		What the hell.
doyle		McNitt?
doyle		McNitt?  Cut the crap.  I know it's you.  You're not scaring me.  Come on.
mcnitt		McNitt here.  I'm outside the exhibit.  All's quiet.  But I don't see Doyle.
mcnitt		Well he's gone.
mcnitt		 Nope.
pendergast		I had no idea the Museum had a complete collection of Piranesi's Forum sketches.
cuthbert		If you like them, they're for sale. Another day like yesterday and half the collection will be on the block.
pendergast		I've read about the Museum's financial troubles.
cuthbert		We've been operating in the red for years.  That was the whole idea behind the Superstition Exhibit.  It was designed to pull people in. We've spent every penny we have on advance publicity, betting everything on the opening's success. If we postpone at the last minute... No.  I don't want to think about that.
cuthbert		I appreciate that.
pendergast		If the party goes forward, and that's a big if... I've arranged for a large police presence.
cuthbert		Do they have to wear uniforms?
pendergast		Yes.
cuthbert		I don't want to scare people.
pendergast		I understand.  But Mr. Cuthbert, we've got bigger problems.  Depending on what we find today, we may have to shut you down.
kawakita		What do you make of it, Margo?
margo		It's not mammalian, that's for sure. I think it's reptilian.
pendergast		That would jive with what we got from the preliminary DNA read-out. Here, have a look.
margo		According to this, twenty-five percent of the claw DNA is unidentifiable, about a third is homo sapien, and the rest is Hemidactylus Turcicus.
margo		Turkish Gecko, I believe.  A lizard.
kawakita		Lizard DNA and human DNA on the same strand?  Impossible.  The sample must be contaminated.
margo		There's another possibility.  A lot of repeated base pairs could suggest a high level of genetic damage.
pendergast		Genetic damage?
margo		When DNA is defective, it often uncontrollably replicates long repeating sequences of the same base pair.  Viruses can damage DNA.  So can radiation, certain chemicals.  Even cancer.  Let's let the G.S.E. sort it out.  I have to get started.  This will take several hours.
pendergast		We need someone to take us to the secure storage area.
kawakita		Try Dr. Frock.  He's the curator of Plant Biology.  All the curators have keys.  And he knows every inch of this museum.  The rest of us still get lost.
pendergast		Thank you for taking the time to help us with this, Dr. Frock.
frock		Happy to be useful.  It's rare enough these days.  According to security, Beauregard put the Whittlesley
pendergast		How many storage areas are there?
frock		They fill seven floors.  We have the largest collection of mammals and dinosaurs in the world.  Just to give you an idea, there are more than three million insects specimens.  Not to mention amphibians, reptiles, birds, anthropological artifacts, meteorites, minerals and gems.  Only about five percent of the museum collection is actually on display.
frock		I'm one of the few who know every inch it, now that John is gone.
pendergast		 Do you mean Dr. Whittlesley?
frock		Yes.  John made quite a study of the whole museum.  He had a copy of my original plans.
margo		Osteo prep, Karl.
karl		They keep me company.  Gets kinda lonely sometimes.
karl		Really?  I'm partial to the skunks.
frock		Did you ever wonder where we get all our skeletons?  This is the laboratory where animal carcasses are reduced to bones.  What's cooking today, Don?
don		Zebra.
frock		Dermestid beetles.  The second method of preparing a skeleton, used in Natural History Museums world wide. Bugs are clean and highly efficient. They'll polish that fox off in no time.
osterbaan		Want to have a look at a gorilla brain?  Got one right here.
frock		Thanks Don.  We're in a hurry.  Some other time.
frock		This should be it.  Can you read the number?
frock		Something tried to get into this room!
pendergast		And failed.  These doors are solid steel.
frock		This means there must be an animal loose in the museum!
pendergast		I wouldn't be so sure.
pendergast		This must be the one that held the statue.  Let's see what else is inside.
frock		 May I see that?
frock		It's from John.  Those two arrows were his insignia.  It's addressed to Louis Moriarty, a patron who financed his expeditions.
pendergast		Read it out loud.
frock		"Dear Louis, Tomorrow we go to the south end of the tepui where we'll be in the greatest danger, so I'm sending Carlos back with the crates.  You always believed in me, Louis, even in the darkest days.  So it gives me great pleasure to tell you your faith has been rewarded.  We've made an incredible find.  I enclose a representation of Mbwun.  Note the exaggerated claws, the reptilian attributes, the hints of bipedalia. It's beyond belief, but this statue is accurate.  I know because I've seen the beast."
frock		Did you hear that?  My God.  He says that Mbwun is real!
frock		This on top of the scratches... isn't it proof!
pendergast		I think the scratches were put there to scare us.  Perhaps even lead us to this note.
pendergast		You said John Whittlesley made a study of your blueprints of the museum.
frock		Yes.
pendergast		Are there any hidden rooms or staircases?  Places where someone could hide?
frock		Not really.  Just the sub-basement.
pendergast		Where is that?
frock		I don't know.  It was walled over.  No one's been down there in years.
pendergast		You said you had plans of the museum.  Could we see them, please?
frock		I know they're here somewhere.  It's a good thing we caught the movers in time.  They're nineteen century blueprints from when the museum was built.  I remember the sub-basement was below the regular basement, linked to the city sewer.  I only know about it because it flooded all the way up to the museum during the hurricane of '49.  I lost so many precious books.
frock		Eureka.  Who says it doesn't pay to be a pack rat?  Now please be careful with these.  When you're done, I'd like them back.
pendergast		Apparently it's huge.
pendergast		We haven't got time.  You have to meet with museum security so we can make a decision about tonight.
pendergast		These plans indicate there's a walled over entrance to the sub- basement right around here.
jonathan		The dogs are picking up something, Mr. Pendergast.
deputy one		What is this?  A dungeon?
ippolito		This huge police presence tonight isn't necessary, Lieutenant.  You'll just scare people off.  I can handle the security behind scenes with this system.  It's state of the art.
ippolito		It's fool proof, basically.  I designed this whole thing myself. Every valuable object in the Museum carries a small electronic chip.  If anything's moved so much as an inch, we get an alarm pinpointing the exact location of the attempted theft.
ippolito		In every exhibition room.  The museum's divided into five cells. The reception and exhibit are in cell five.  We could arm the motion detectors in cells one to four, then seal the perimeter with our fire doors.
ippolito		 You don't know much about computers, Lieutenant.  There are safeguards built in.  We have back-up systems with redundancies.  There's no way these computers can fail.
frock		I can't help thinking there's something that Pendergast overlooked.  If the scratches were made by whatever killed Beauregard, it wants something that's in here.
margo		A blow dart.  Seed pods.  A plant press.  Pretty unimpressive stuff.
frock		Let me see the plant press.
margo		What is it?
frock		I'm not sure.  As you know, the Kothoga lived outside civilization on the tepui for thousands of years. Species flourished in isolation when man and pollution rendered them extinct.  This could be one of the last remaining samples of an unknown plant.
margo		Whatever it is, it must be common on the tepui.  John used it as packing material.
frock		You're right.
frock		They're curiously fleshy.
kawakita		And they smell delicious.
kawakita		Taste great.
frock		I wouldn't put that in your mouth until we do a chemical analysis, Greg.
kawakita		I can handle that for you while we're waiting on the G.S.E.
margo		What about those seed pods?  Are they from the same plant?
frock		Margo, these aren't seed pods.
margo		What are they?
frock		They're eggs.
pendergast		Hard to read in this light.  The ink is so faded.
jonathan		The dogs have lost the scent, Mr. Pendergast.  Maybe we should head back.
pendergast		Not yet.  Let's try the fork to the left.
deputy two		This place gives me the creeps.
jonathan		They've got something.
pendergast		Keep the light up.  I can't see.
pendergast		Shut them up!
jonathan		Heel Argo!  Hobbes!  Heel!
jonathan		They're going crazy!  I need help!
jonathan		He's loose!  Argo!
pendergast		Stop!
jonathan		Holy mother, what is that?
deputy one		Smells God-awful.  Like rotten meat.
jonathan		Argo!  Come!
pendergast		Quiet!
jonathan		No!  Hobbes!
pendergast		Forget the dogs.  You two, get back here.  Don't point that gun at me.
jonathan		Argo!  Hobbes!
pendergast		Get back!  Now!
jonathan		You shot my dog!
jonathan		My dog...
deputy one		 He was coming right at me...
deputy two		Let's get out of here!
jonathan		I'm not going anywhere!  Not without my dog!
jonathan		Hobbes!
deputy one		Get back!
jonathan		There's something out there!  Let's go get it now!  That's why we came down here, isn't it?
pendergast		 He's right.  Follow me.
deputy one		No way.  I say we get help.  A lot more guns.
pendergast		I'm ordering you!  Cover me!
deputy two		We'll cover you from here!
jonathan		Look.  It's Hobbes!  He's all right.
pendergast		Come on.  Let's get back to the others.  We can't leave them alone.
jonathan		It's alright.  I can tell by the way the dog's acting that whatever was out there is gone.  What is this place?
pendergast		Not on the map.  Looks like it connects with the city sewer.
pendergast		We're coming back!
pendergast		Identify yourself!  Who's there?
jonathan		Oh... my... God!
pendergast		 Quiet.
pendergast		Stay calm.
cuthbert		It's too late now.  Guests are arriving.  The Mayor's car is pulling up.
cuthbert		 You haven't got the authority.  Only Pendergast can pull the plug.
cuthbert		He'll be back.  Relax.  We're in good shape.  Your security is air tight. There've been no more incidents, nothing suspicious.  There's no reason to call off the opening now.
kawakita		What kind of egg is it?
margo		It's reptilian.
frock		Like the claw.
margo		 Let's not jump to conclusions.  This egg could belong to any number of reptiles, Dr. Frock.
frock		 Come on, Margo.  We're on the verge of something huge.  Let's consider the possibility, just the three of us, alone in this room.  What if John was right.  I mean, what if?  And he sent back an egg of his monster in the crates.  When it got to the museum, it hatched.
margo		Several problems with that theory. For one thing, this egg is intact. For another, according to Pendergast, the crates were shipped here on a boat.  Everyone on board was killed like Beauregard.  If the thing hatched in mid-ocean, where did it go?
kawakita		I guess you're not interested in this plant anymore, but the chemical analysis is done.  Frock reads the computer over Greg's shoulder.
frock		"Genus: Unknown.  Family: Unknown. Order: Unknown.  Phylum: Unknown. Cripes, Margo, what did you give me? Is this an animal or one funky shrub?"  I see you've been programming the computer vocabulary again.
margo		 Look at this.  An ambyloid reovirus protein.  That explains why the computer's confused.  The plant's infected with a virus.
frock		That's not so unusual.  Many plants carry viruses.  Like the burls on Maple trees.
margo		But a virus normally codes for other viruses.  This one's making human and animal proteins.  Listen to this.  "Glycotetraglycine collagenoid. Weinstein's tropic hormone.  4- monoxytocin supressin hormone."
kawakita		These plant fibers are loaded with hormones!
margo		What kind of hormones?
kawakita		4-monoxytocin is... "A hormone secreted by the human hypothalamus gland."
margo		Try Weinstein's tropic hormone.
frock		A hormone secreted by the human thalamus gland.
margo		This is it.  This is what he, or it... is after!  The plant has high concentrations of the same hormones found in minute quantities in the human brain!
kawakita		So what?
margo		Pendergast told me the killer extracts and eats the hypothalamus and thalamus of the victim's brains!
kawakita		 Eats them?
margo		Yes.  Whatever killed Beauregard may have lived on this plant.  When the crates were put in secure storage, they were out of reach.  The killer couldn't get them, so it got the next best thing.
frock		Beauregard's head.
margo		It's all right.  That means the G.S.E.  has finished analyzing the claw DNA.  Greg, you go find Pendergast and Lieutenant D'Agosta now.
drunk		Hey, where 'za little boys room?
kawakita		Down that hallway.  But don't stay long.  You don't want to be here alone.
margo		All right, assuming the program is accurate, this is a description of the animal with that claw.  "Species unidentified.  Genus: unidentified.  Phylum unknown.  Male, weight in excess of 240 kg.  Brain capacity, 900 centimeters." That means it's highly intelligent. "Quadrupedal."
frock		Quadrupedal!  The other name for Mbwun.  "He Who Walks on All Fours."
margo		"Nocturnal.  External hair and bony plates.  Locomotor speed 60-70 kilometers.  Reduced optic chiasm"... poor eyesight.  "External mucoid nasal glands,"... very keen scent... "Morphological characteristics: Highly robust.  Aggressiveness: extreme."
frock		So the claw came from a huge creature with a preternatural sense of smell and poor eyesight that hunts at night.
margo		With the intelligence of a human being, the speed of a greyhound, and the strength of a grizzly bear.
frock		 Margo, what you've just described is a killing machine.
margo		And it's hungry.  It's been two days since it's eaten.  There are five hundred people arriving right now. The animal hunts at night and it has a keen sense of smell!  All those people in one enclosed space...
frock		It's like ringing the dinner bell.
cuthbert		Thank you everyone and welcome. We're glad all of you were willing to brave the inclement weather to be with us tonight.  Our special thanks to his honor, the mayor and his lovely wife.
kawakita		Lieutenant!  It's me.
kawakita		Dr. Green has to see you!
kawakita		It's important.  Please.  You have to come!  Pendergast, too.  She's found out something.
mcnitt		Yeah Lieutenant?  I'm here.
mcnitt		Not yet.
mcnitt		Hold on Lieutenant.  What was that?
george		Probably just something wrong with the air conditioning.  There's a shit load of electrical rooms back there.
mcnitt		Lieutenant?  There's something wrong in the computer room.
george		You're over-reacting.  Sounds like the air conditioning to me.
cuthbert		Here we have a very rare sacrificial table from Mesoamerica.  The priests would kill the victim on this slab, cut out the heart and eat it while it was still beating.
mayor		I could use one of these things in City Hall.
mayor's wife		You're letting kids see this?  I should think they'd have nightmares.
cuthbert		Kid will love it.  They're our target audience.  Nothing here is as violent as what they see on T.V.
mayor		I don't know.  That could be a little over the top.  It's not even scientific.  Mummies don't bleed.
cuthbert		Oh... my... God...
ippolito		Quiet everyone!
woman		There's a body up there!
mcnitt		George!  Get out here, now!
mcnitt		George!  Where are you?
mcnitt		Hey you?  George!  Damn it.  Where are you?  No response.
mcnitt		George!  We've got an emergency!  Are you here?
mcnitt		Oh God.  Oh God!
mcnitt		George!  I saw something in there!  I fired but I think I missed it!
mcnitt		George, for Chrissake answer me!
kawakita		What happened?!
ippolito		The whole system is shutting down! We have to get out quickly before the fire doors fall!
ippolito		I told you!  They seal off all the cells.  They were designed to fall automatically in a system failure --
bailey		Above you!  Look out!
ippolito		Like hell!
margo		What's going on?
frock		Some kind of power failure.  Maybe it's the storm.  Do you have a flashlight?
margo		I think so.
frock		Greg's been gone over a half hour. We'd better get out of here.  Get the crate.
margo		Dr. Frock.  Did you hear that?
frock		Don't stop now.
margo		What's that?
frock		It's one of the fire doors.  Good Lord, Margo.  We're trapped!
pendergast		I know where we are now.  We're getting out, Jonathan.  This should be another door.
jonathan		Hallelujah, Pendergast.  Where the hell are we now?
jonathan		Jesus, what is this?
pendergast		Another storage room.
pendergast		Something's happened.  The power's out.
pendergast		All right.  I know where we are.  This is the osteo prep lab.  I was in here earlier.  We're safe now.
jonathan		Oh no.  I smell it.
pendergast		Keep the animal quiet.
pendergast		Go out the other doorway.  There's a stair at the end of the hall.  Up five flights is a corridor that leads to the Hall of the Heavens. Find Lieutenant D'Agosta.  Bring help.
pendergast		Halt!
pendergast		Margo!  Frock!  It's coming!  Run!
frock		Look!
margo		Dr. Frock!  Quick!
pendergast		No.  I think I'm hallucinating.
margo		You're not.  Where is it?
pendergast		 Gone.
margo		Wounded?
pendergast		No.  A chromium alloy tipped .45 caliber bullet bounced off that thing's skull like a spit ball.  I think it was bothered by my light.
margo		That would fit.  It's nocturnal. Quick.  Come inside.
bailey		Manual overrides aren't working.  I'm getting nothing, Lieutenant.
frank		There's no power.  The whole system's down.
man		We're trapped!  And there's a killer in here!
mayor		Yes.  My wife.
pound		I'm Dr. Pound.
jonathan		 Lieutenant D'Agosta!  Don't shoot.
jonathan		 Five flights down.  We were lost in the sub-basement.  Something's down there.  It killed our two deputies. When I left Pendergast it was coming back.  He sent me for help.  We have to hurry.
pound		But he's still alive --
cuthbert		What's going on?
bailey		I'm in.
kawakita		 Me too.
cuthbert		 I'd do it gladly but someone needs to stay with these people.
frank		I was in the Marines.  Give me a gun. I'd go with you, too, but I've got my daughter.
frank		Frank.
mayor's wife		 Where are you going?  Don't leave us alone!
mayor		Everyone quiet.  The Lieutenant's in charge.
kawakita		Excuse me.  Could you tell me how this thing works?
jonathan		Oh Jesus.  Don't point it at me.  Just aim and shoot.
jonathan		Lieutenant!  Get back!
bailey		NOOOOO!
jonathan		I don't know!  It hit me hard.
mayor		 Lieutenant.  In the south corner.
cuthbert		It went out the door to the rotunda!
cuthbert		Sweet Jesus!
cuthbert		My office is on the third floor! There's a walk-in safe and a portable phone!  We can lock ourselves in the safe and call for help!
mayor		I think we should stick together!
frank		 Me too.
cuthbert		I'm leaving.  Whoever wants can come with me.
mayor		Good luck!
ippolito		All right everyone.  I'm in charge. Status report.
waters		Swat teams are on the way.  Fire trucks with them.  Everything's slowed down because of the rain. We're bringing in portable generators.  They'll get the emergency lights working but they won't pump enough power to lift the doors.
ippolito		D'Agosta?  Ippolito.  Come in.
ippolito		I made it outside.  I'll co-ordinate the rescue efforts from here.  Help is on the way.  Just sit tight.
waters		Did he say monster?
ippolito		Panic attack.
mayor		Mayor Jordan here.
mayor		Don't tell me what to do you chicken shit bastard.  I saw you cut and run! Lieutenant D'Agosta stayed with us. He is in charge.  There is a monster. I saw it.  Cut through those doors and get us out of here, now!
ippolito		All right.  The steel doors are designed to retard cutting.  We can go through them, but it would take hours.
waters		The quickest way in would be to go through the roof, sir.  Cell two goes up to the fifth floor.  There are sky lights up there.
ippolito		Co-ordinate with the fire department and SWAT teams.  Move.
pendergast		I don't know how to deal with this. It's hellish.  Like nothing I ever saw.  I'm not trained to deal with a monster, a supernatural creature like that.
margo		It's not supernatural.  Mbwun is an animal.  Part lizard, part human, a genetic freak of some kind, like the half-goat, half-sheep they found last year in the jungles of Vietnam.
pendergast		But this isn't the jungle!  This is New York.  How did it get here?  A thing like that crossed two continents.  It makes no sense!
frock		 We think it may have something to do with the eggs we found in the crate.
pendergast		I don't believe it.
margo		None of that matters now.  The people upstairs need us.  We have to help.
frock		We can't.  We've managed to get inside the one place that's safe.  I think we should sit tight and wait for reinforcements.  If we go outside, we're risking more lives. You have to accept it, Margo, there's nothing we can do.  The building must be swarming with police by now.  It won't take long for them to get through the doors.
margo		That thing could kill ten people in a matter of minutes.
pendergast		But what can we do?  Our guns are useless --
margo		We have the fibers.  Don't you see? The creature is hungry.  It wants the hormones in these plants.  It would take hundreds of human brains to supply what's in these fibers.  We're just a poor substitute.  To make it stop hunting, we have to give it what it wants.
cuthbert		Solid oak.  Two inches thick.  Tell me they'll hold.
cuthbert		I got it after I was mugged in the subway last spring.
jonathan		Where's the walk-in safe?
cuthbert		Behind you.
jonathan		What's the combination?
cuthbert		I'll do it.  Just let me find my portable phone.
jonathan		Forget it!
cuthbert		Calm down.  I found it!
cuthbert		Battery's dead.  Shit.
jonathan		Let's go!
cuthbert		That thing won't come after us, right?  It's going for bigger game. The group blundering around in the basement.  Poor fools.
jonathan		Hurry up!
cuthbert		Just a minute.  I'm shaking!  Take the gun.
cuthbert		Oh God!  I dropped my rabbit's foot!
jonathan		For Chrissake, I'll do it.  What's the combination?!
cuthbert		To the left twice then five no... sorry... I think it's fifteen... it's been a while...
jonathan		Oh Jesus...
jonathan		Fifteen... what's next?
cuthbert		Eight to the right!  Look!  I found it!
pendergast		All clear.
frock		I'm coming with you.
margo		No, Dr. Frock.  You can't.
pendergast		You'd slow us down and put Margo in danger.
margo		Unlock one of the other storage rooms.  We're going upstairs.  We'll leave a trail back to 1012 and try to trap the monster in here.
frock		Margo, this is too dangerous.  You always think you can solve everything.  This time you don't have enough information.  The animal might behave in unexpected ways.  Leave her here with me.  Don't put her in danger.
pendergast		He's right.
margo		No.  You'll need me --
frock		What's that?
pendergast		Footsteps!
margo		No, not footsteps!  People running for their lives!
frock		Come back and get me.
margo		We will.
frock		Remember, it has poor eyesight.  It hunts with its sense of smell.  So for God's sake, Margo, don't get those fibers on your clothes!
kawakita		It's still back there!
pendergast		That was D'Agosta.
margo		The planetarium!
pendergast		 Vince!
pendergast		This door's locked.  Try shooting the hinges off.
kawakita		Is Dr. Frock safe!
margo		Yes, he's fine.  Greg... take care of yourself!
margo		Is there another way around?
pendergast		No.  The planetarium is in the next cell.  This is one of the fire doors...
pendergast		Vince?  There's no way we can get to you with the fire doors down. There's an entrance to the sub- basement in the hall off the north side exit.
pendergast		I've been down there.  It links up to the old sewer system.  I can guide you out.
kawakita		You're asking me?  I don't even know how to load this thing.
frank		Four rounds...
pendergast		Go out the north exit!  There's a hallway and a false wall by the Greek vases.  Run!
pendergast		Hide quickly!
margo		What are you going to do?
pendergast		Buy them some time.
pendergast		Hey you big tub of lard!  Over here!
pendergast		Come on, you smelly pile of refuse. Come get me.  I dare you!
margo		What is it doing?
pendergast		 It's scared of me.
pendergast		Drop the fibers!
pendergast		What happened?
margo		Its eyesight is worse than I thought.  It couldn't see us.  And it couldn't smell us through the glass.
pendergast		It didn't want the fibers.  What does that mean?
margo		I think... it means it's full.
pendergast		Then it won't go after the others?
margo		No.  It's still hunting, but not for the hormones.
pendergast		For what?
margo		I think... for the pleasure of the kill.
pendergast		We're fine.  Take the left fork behind you.  You'll be in a straight passage.  When the hall forks again in fifty yards go right.  Then radio back.
kawakita		Oh shit.
frank		No, Lieutenant.  He's not a good enough shot.  I'll do it if you take care of my daughter.
frank		You'll be the first to know.
mayor		It's too late!
lauren		Dad!
kawakita		I think it's gone.
mayor		Which way!
kawakita		Holy shit.
pendergast		Vince?  Can you hear me?  Vince!
margo		We have to try and draw it off!
pendergast		How?
margo		The answer's right in front of us.
margo		That's a ptarmigan, feigning a broken wing.  The bird pretends to be injured to draw the fox away from its nest!
pendergast		 It's deceptively simple.  Like a Bruckner Symphony or a Matisse.
margo		Help!  Please someone!  Help!
jennings		We're ready.  We've got enough firepower to turn a herd of lions into a fine red mist.
ippolito		Then do it.
jonathan		It's okay, Hobbes.  We'll be all right.  Help has got to come eventually... We'll make it.  We'll be fine.
jonathan		Hey!  Wake up!
drunk		Who the hell are you?
jonathan		You first.
drunk		I got lost tryin' to find the bathroom.  I was walkin' in circles. I lay down for a nap.  What's going on?
jonathan		You wouldn't believe me if I told you.
jonathan		What is it, boy?
drunk		Where we going?
jonathan		I think we're going home.
jonathan		Hello!  We're over here!
jennings		Are you hurt?
jonathan		We're fine.  I don't know about the people downstairs.  In the Hall of the Heavens.  The basement... you'll need help.  There's a monster down there.
jennings		The rescue workers will lift you out one at a time.
margo		Help someone!
pendergast		Oh God!  Help!
margo		You smell that?
pendergast		It's coming.  Run.
kawakita		I believe in you a hundred percent, Vince, but that's the second time we've been at that intersection.
kawakita		What's that?
kawakita		 Dr. John Whittlesley.
kawakita		I don't know.  I thought Dr. Whittlesley died in South America.
mayor		 Look.  There's a ladder at the end.  I think it goes up to the street!
kawakita		What is that?
kawakita		Dear God.  Where are we, Lieutenant?
pendergast		We're not going to make the storage room!
margo		Listen to me, Pendergast.  Mbwun's DNA is part homo sapien.  In primates, the eye is a direct path to the brain!  If you get a clean shot, there's only one place you can kill it.  Shoot it in the eye!
pendergast		Please, no!  Don't hurt Margo!
margo		My God.  You understand.
margo		Please let me go.  We won't hurt you.
pendergast		Run!
margo		John's necklace!  You killed him!
margo		Oh Jesus.  John?
margo		No.  It's not possible!
margo		John?  If it is you... I can help.
margo		No!  Don't kill him!  Pendergast, you were right.  It's John!
pendergast		What?
margo		That thing is John Whittlesley.  I should have seen it before!  The fibers are infected with a virus. You eat them, and the virus alters your DNA!  He became addicted to them in South America, followed the plants back to the states.  He probably entered the country as a man.  It would have taken several months for the change to take place. That's how he got from the boat to the museum!
pendergast		I don't believe it.
margo		You have to!  Listen!  All viruses pass on their own DNA.  Instruct the cells of the host to make more viruses!  This one was different.  It inserted a whole array of genes into John.  Reptile genes, sixty five million years old.  Those genes remade him!  It's not his fault!
pendergast		Whatever that thing is, we have to kill it!
waters		We can't raise the S.W.A.T. team.  No one's answering!  What do you want to do?
ippolito		Holy shit.  Pull him up.
ippolito		Get more guns!  Now!
ippolito		Get back!  We're going to shoot!
margo		No.  Wait!  Let me talk to him first!
ippolito		 Kill that thing!  Kill it now!
margo		No!
margo		John... you can give up now!  Just lie down where you are!
waters		Holy shit it's coming this way!
ippolito		It's headed for the roof.  Run!
waters		Get back here, you asshole!  We can't let it get out!  Surround the opening and kill it!
waters		Back, everybody!  That's an order!
margo		Just like John.  He won't listen.
pendergast		I have to shoot.
margo		Do it, quickly.  Please.  Aim for the eye.
pendergast		He has to look here or I won't get a clear shot.  Call him, Margo.
margo		I can't!
pendergast		You have to.  Do it now!
margo		John!  John, look at me!
kawakita		Margo Green.  Have you seen her?
pendergast		She's over here.
pendergast		Nice to see you, Lieutenant.
margo		No time for fishing anymore?
kawakita		Got to finish this thesis sometime.
margo		How about lunch?
kawakita		Not today.  Besides, I think the director of the museum is expecting you.
margo		Okay.
margo		Dr. Frock?
frock		Look who's here, Margo.
margo		I'm so glad to see you.  What's the occasion?
pendergast		I'm in town on a case.  Dropped by to see Vince and we thought we'd see the new display.
pendergast		Dr. Frock, I was wondering.  What happened to the rest of Whittlesley's plants?
frock		They were sent to the Center For Disease Control in Atlanta.
frock		The virus itself might have positive applications.  They'll keep the plants in secure lock up while the studies are made.  Greg isn't joining us?
margo		He's changed.  He's always working on his thesis.  He comes in early, stays late.  I tried to get him to join us, but he never takes a break.
pendergast		We did the right thing, Margo.
margo		Yes.  I know.
****Dialogues from script :Remember_Me.txt****

blonde		 Hello?
tyler		Yeah...  Of course. I'm on my way. I know...I know...I know...I know.
tyler		 Hello, your majesty. How are you?
diane		I'm fine... you look good...
tyler		Thanks for organizing everybody.
caroline		You smell like Listerine and beer.
charles		 You couldn't wear a tie?
tyler		Could have.
diane		...This is nice... I think it's nice that we still do this...
caroline		 Mom.
diane		I forgot. I'm trying to purge "nice" from my vocabulary. Michael would like that we still do this.
diane		 Did you tell Tyler what your art teacher said about your portrait?
caroline		Tyler, did I tell you what my art teacher said about my portrait?
tyler		Why no, Caroline. What did your art teacher say about your portrait?
diane		 You two. I quit.
caroline		...She was very impressed. She said I captured a moment like a young James Whistler.
tyler		Young Whistler... good... 'cause Whistler really fell off late in his career. He's the Michael Jackson of European art history.
diane		She suggested your sister take Pratt's Summer Art Intensive and that's hugely prestigious.
caroline		I would be the youngest one, ever, practically...
charles		Tyler, would you please pass the butter?
diane		Caroline was speaking.
tyler		 Are you really this clueless? Are you really dismissing her like this?
charles		Caroline is perfectly capable of speaking up if she is feeling dismissed. Caroline, are you feeling dismissed?
caroline		I'm okay.
charles		 I didn't mean to change the subject.
tyler		What was the subject?
charles		Excuse me?
tyler		The subject we were discussing. What was it?
charles		Now's not the time for your heroics Tyler
tyler		No. It's the perfect time.
tyler		 Do you need me to take you anywhere?
caroline		I'll stay with mom.
tyler		Then I'll see you after school.
caroline		Kay.
hostess		Eat something.
tyler		Yes, ma'am.
aidan		I sold your girlfriend a toothbrush.
tyler		You sold my who? ...What?
aidan		That voluptuous, delightfully oblivious little blonde you left in your bed this morning... I sold her a toothbrush. Got three bucks.
tyler		...Congratulations?
aidan		Are in order, yes. Because that sale inspired our newest business venture: "The S.L.U.T."
tyler		I was unaware we had a previous business venture.
aidan		The 'Single Lady's Universal Tote'. It's the one-night-stand travel pack for women. We throw in some make-up, toiletries, cell phone charger, cab numbers. Retail it at
tyler		And you think women would buy this? With money?
aidan		Hey one-night-stands happen... It's a part of life... like stubbing your toe. Sometimes you misjudge a corner and bend back your pinky toe, other times you wake up in a freshman dorm wearing a field hockey tee shirt wondering why your balls smell like cinnamon...
tyler		 Of course. Yes.
aidan		Don't underestimate the novelty gift market. Think about it... instead of giving that token slutty friend a ten-inch purple dildo for her birthday, you hook her up with "The SLUT." Everyone has a laugh and the implication that she'll probably use it someday remains. What do you say? Are you down?
tyler		I'm down with getting you on some sort of medication.
aidan		OK...fine...be cynical...just remember at some point in history two people had a conversation just like this about the light bulb. One of them went on to fame and fortune and the other one probably went to work at Mickey D's or something.
tyler		Or Denny's. Denny's was big in the 19th century.
professor		...in the wake of terrorist attacks these insurance company actuaries are provided a unique opportunity to raise premiums and profits to protect against events that will likely never occur again...
girl		Isn't that also an ethical question?
uptight mommy		Why don't we make this a non- smoking statue?
caroline		 Yeah, Tyler . Why don't we make this a non-smoking statue?
caroline		You promised you'd quit...
tyler		I know.
caroline		You're gonna get emphysema and then you're gonna have to drag an oxygen tank with you everywhere...
tyler		You think that would be the worst part about having emphysema?
caroline		Everywhere you go, Tyler. Even the bathroom.
caroline		Why do you think Dad doesn't wanna...like, listen to me?
tyler		Dad loves you.
caroline		So? You can love someone and not want to spend any time with them.
tyler		You've got that right.
caroline		Mom loves Aunt Sara. But at Christmas, last year, she wouldn't let Les leave them in a room together 'cause she said there would be a "yule tide homicide."
tyler		That's because Aunt Sara drinks... You don't drink, right?
caroline		Duh.
tyler		So why would anyone wanna avoid you?
caroline		Michael used to drink.
tyler		Yeah. He did. But Michael was 21. All 21 year olds drink because it's new and exciting. Aunt Sara drinks
aidan		What about Atlantic City for your birthday this year? Get a suite. Couple of ladies. You could call Toothbrush Girl, what do you think?
tyler		I think I'd rather be sodomized.
aidan		Hey, it's your day.
aidan		What's the point? How do you know where anything is in this place, anyway? There's like...
tyler		I don't expect you to appreciate this, but the schematic for this particular shelf is authors who were sleeping together...
aidan		No shit?
tyler		And ended up dead or in prison.
aidan		This is why chicks dig you.
aidan		Seriously. They like this freaky poetic crap. I ran into Megan yesterday. She's bartending at Don Hill's tonight. She wants us to stop by. She practically begged me.
tyler		Eh.
tyler		Hey!
aidan		Hey nothing. You've been a ghost the past couple weeks. You never wanna go out. I'm feeling unappreciated here. 
tyler		You realize interventions typically discourage binge drinking?
aidan		One drink. Come out for one drink.
tyler		When's the last time you had one drink?
aidan		Hey, Megan!
aidan		You look great! Can I get two Heinekens?
megan		Do. Not. Speak.
aidan		 Is she mad at me or something?
tyler		No no. Girls are like that when they're way into you.
aidan		Oh.
aidan		Well, hello...
aidan		My pleasure...
aidan		Thanks. You've met my roommate...
megan		I hope you die.
tyler		She's all over you. Cheers.
aidan		I love this street. I love this city. Where are you guys from, again?
aidan's girl		Miami.
aidan		Miami. Miami, Barcelona, Rio. New York is it, man. God broke the mold when he made this city.
tyler		You ever actually been to any of those places?
aidan		What's your point?
aidan's girl		What are we doing? I'm freezing.
aidan		Shoulda worn a jacket. Like me.
aidan's girl		 Asshole.
aidan's girl		Are you coming?
tyler's girl		 Hold on, Lauren.
neanderthal driver		My problem? Keep your hands off my car, asshole.
neanderthal driver		I'm from Queens, faggot
tyler's girl		So we were thinking we could go...
aidan		 God damn it.
craig		Cut those two loose.
leo		 Take a walk.
craig		Anything in here that's going to stab me, Einstein?
craig		Nice. You like to get high and hit women?
craig		How about you two?
craig		Shut up, genius.
craig		Alright. That's it. Everybody goes downtown.
tyler		It wasn't them.
aidan		 Tyler...
leo		 Take a walk, I said.
tyler		Hey!
tyler		They didn't do anything. They didn't start this. Those assholes did. Why do these guys have to go downtown?
craig		What are you still doing here?
tyler		This is bullshit. It was those gorillas who started this.
craig		Well, Mr. Roth. What makes you think I give a shit?
tyler		You're a police officer. You're supposed to.
craig		It's a great relief to me, Mr. Roth, to know that you're on top of the situation. Now go the fuck home.
tyler		How about you do your job?
escorting officer		You can have your call now.
tyler		I'm good.
aidan		You're good? Thank God you're good.
aidan		What are you trying to do? What did you want from that cop guy?
tyler		That was a messed up situation. Those guys...
tyler		...Are pussies!
tyler		There was no justice in that situation.
aidan		No justice. Okay, Green Hornet ... Lantern ... Asshole. 
tyler		Did you just say "nihilistic"?
aidan		Yeah. I got it off a cereal box.
escorting officer		Roth, Brewer.
aidan		Yeah, I called your dad's office. Sue me.
ally		So when would that be available?...No, that's sooner than I'd thought. And is there any kind of deposit?.. Okay.
ally		I'll call you back. Thanks.
ally		What did you tell me you were going to do when things got tight?
craig		Breathe.
ally		Did you?
craig		I did. I'm breathing right now. Who was that?
ally		The lady from student housing. We talked about it. Remember?
craig		Sure.
ally		Mrs. Lippman is going to drive me.
craig		I'll drive you.
ally		Mrs. Lippman said she'd do it.
ally		You're exhausted. When you have a stroke I'm going to abandon you on a park bench.
ally		This drive is too long.
the receptionist		You know you can't smoke in here.
tyler		So what's with the ash tray?
the receptionist		It completes the room.
tyler		Tease.
janine		He's ready for you.
janine		You're too skinny. And you smell like french fries and cigarettes.
tyler		Nice to see you too.
janine		You want me to lie?
janine		Try not to give him a heart attack.
tyler		Okay.
tyler		I came to see how much it costs, because I'm giving you the money back.
charles		How much what costs?
tyler		That lawyer.
charles		Ah. That lawyer, Tyler, costs 450 dollars an hour.
tyler		Christ.
charles		Tell me about it.
tyler		I wanted to make sure you understood it wasn't me who called you.
charles		I understand. You could do worse than have a father who bails you out of jail
tyler		I don't want to be bailed out of anything.
tyler		I'll get an invoice from Janine.
tyler		 Hey.
tyler		Excuse us, we're due in surgery.
caroline		What happened to your face?
tyler		Horrible threshing accident.
caroline		You're so retarded.
tyler		Don't mock the afflicted. Here, I brought you something.
tyler		This was my favorite book ever. Michael had it and he hit me over the head with it until I read it. Its about all these God and Goddesses who spend all of their time being jealous and petty and otherwise acting like human beings. The illustrations are amazing.
caroline		Ooh. These are cool. Thanks! Where are we meeting mom?
tyler		Guggenheim. What's up with those girls?
caroline		I just...they think I'm weird. Sometimes I sort of space out.
tyler		When you're drawing?
caroline		Yeah. Other times too. Madamoiselle Fleischman had to snap her fingers at me a lot today. And everybody laughed and they all think I'm a freak of nature.
tyler		Je m'appelle "Freak of Nature."
tyler		Mon dieu, mon soeurette! Je m'appelle "Freak of Nature". Sacre Bleu. French Toast.
caroline		What are you going to tell mom about your face?
tyler		I finally found something I'm good at?
aidan		...I know by every numerical measurement I didn't pass but what I was hoping was that maybe you give me a grade on my trying to pass. My commitment to effort. My commitment to commitment...Since the semester is nearly at it's terminus.
aidan		 I mean... uh... life's only about what we put into it. It's about people. And what they put into it. And I'm -- ah, screw it.
aidan		He's got a daughter.
tyler		Who?
aidan		The cop... The cop who busted your face all up. He's got a daughter. And she's hot! I smell revenge!
tyler		Revenge. What do you want me to do, kidnap her?
aidan		You introduce yourself...go on a few dates...be your charming, gentlemanly self... And then, flip the script.
tyler		What does that mean?
aidan		Screw her brains out and make her call you daddy. Steal her underwear and sell it on ebay. Put her in Clown Shoes, take lewd photos and post them on her high school's home page. I don't know. Be creative.
tyler		You should be incarcerated on general principle.
aidan		Hey. What happened to you was very emasculating. Tell me you don't want to get that asshole and I'll drop it.
tyler		I don't want to get that asshole.
aidan		Just meet her.
tyler		I don't want to meet her.
aidan		She's cute.
tyler		I don't care.
aidan		You're meeting her.
tyler		I'm not meeting her.
tyler		This is one of those moments I'm already regretting.
aidan		She was here yesterday.
tyler		What am I supposed to say to this girl? "Hey doll face, your dad trampled all over my civil liberties, wanna make out?"
aidan		Well don't call her doll face.
aidan		There. The brunette.
tyler		I know her. I mean, I don't know her, but, I've seen her. She's in my global politics class.
aidan		There you go! Something to open with. Now get over there.
aidan		Shazam!
tyler		Excuse me?
tyler		My name's Tyler Roth. I was wondering if I could bother you for a minute?
ally		You're already bothering me.
tyler		Um, I'm doing kind of a sociological experiment...I was hoping you could help me out.
ally		What are you, kidding me?
tyler		No, I... may I ask your name?
ally		Anonymous. It's Greek. It means "you don't have a shot".
tyler		Okay, Anonymous, do you see the guy across the room, pretending to read a text book, looking in this general direction?
ally		Subtle.
tyler		I have this theory that an objective third-party, having no prior contact, would be able to determine how much of an asshole he is just by looking at him.
ally		Ah.
tyler		He's my roommate. And I've witnessed so many glaring examples of assaholic behavior that I'm biased as a subject, but I'm convinced that he has an aura, that people can actually perceive. So, just take a good long look. And tell me what you think?
ally		Who else do you plan on asking?
tyler		No one here. The parameters called only to sample attractive women in their early twenties.
ally		I'm nineteen.
tyler		In their late teens.  Well, look, you typically get something for participating in these things and I've run out of those big foam fingers, so I was thinking maybe I could take you out some night?
tyler		Or you could just go out with me on the off chance we'd have an interesting conversation.
ally		I don't date sociology majors... they're a rowdy bunch.
tyler		Indeed they are. Lucky for you, I'm undecided.
ally		About what?
tyler		Everything.
ally		I'm Ally.
chubby girl		Kiss ass freak.
craig		Don't be mad...
ally		Dad, we've seen freaking Erin Brockovich twice already. You always cry.
ally		It's embarrassing.
ally		Hello?
tyler		Hey. It's Tyler.
ally		Hi.
tyler		You're going to stand me up. I can feel it in my bones. I'll be devastated.
ally		No... I...I was just...
tyler		You were just sitting around in your pajamas watching T.V.
ally		No. I'm not watching T.V. I'm just...getting dressed.
ally		And I'm going to meet you at the place at..what time again?
tyler		Eight.
ally		Right...yes. Eight...okay.
ally		Shit.
ally		I'm going out.
craig		I can see that.
ally		Well, you're a trained investigator.
craig		Who are you going with?
ally		A boy from school.
craig		Okay.
ally		I wasn't asking for permission.
craig		 Have a good time. Here's cab fare.
ally		Thanks.
craig		Should I wait up?
ally		Dad.
ally		 What desserts do you have?
waiter		Dessert special fried bananas a la mode.
ally		Great, I'll have that. A glass of skim milk. Then the mussels, please.
tyler		Pad Thai and a Sapporo. Thanks.
ally		I have my dessert first.
tyler		Is this a political statement? A medical condition?
ally		I just don't see the point in waiting for something I know I want and am going to have. What if I die eating my mussels?
tyler		Is that probable?
ally		It's possible. If an embolism burst or an asteroid hit the restaurant, I'd die without having eaten the thing I wanted most.
tyler		But the odds are, I mean...
ally		Fine. I'll tell you what, you guarantee me. Swear to me on your eternal soul that I'll make it through my entre. And I'll wait.
ally		Before you answer, keep in mind, if I die, you'll have to live the rest of your life knowing that you not only lied to me, but denied me my last indulgence. My last wish. Are you prepared to shoulder that kind of responsibility to prove a point?
ally		Don't worry. I'll share.
ally		Really?
ally		I had a nice time.
tyler		You had a nice time or you're having a nice time?
tyler		Because if you're having one, why rush to end it?
tyler		Did I tell you I'm Caucasian?
ally		Apparently.
ally		Can't we just stroll while I feed you ice cream with fireworks in the background?
tyler		No. If I stop, he wins.
ally		Who, the attendant?
tyler		No, the frigging Giant Panda.
ally		I don't know what you're smiling about.
tyler		I won.
ally		Paying off the attendant is not winning... It's cheating.
tyler		I just paid a premium to cut out the middle man. That's innovation. That's free market enterprising. That's what made America great.
ally		Aha. By the way, what happened to your eye?
tyler		Oh, it's nothing, just a bar fight.
ally		How butch.
tyler		I know. I'm practically a pirate.
ally		Okay, Captain Morgan...
tyler		 You've got some serious timing.
all		It's getting late.
tyler		I'll walk you to the train.
ally		I'll take a cab.
ally		Thanks.
ally		Not tonight. Not never... just... not tonight.
cab driver		We goin' or what?
ally		Hey! Turn on the meter.
tyler		So dessert before dinner for fear of death by rogue asteroid... yes. Kissing guy you're obviously attracted to before driving off into the unknown New York night... no.
ally		You're really weird.
ally		 I'm going to Queens and I don't wanna hear about it.
tyler		Happy end of sixth grade!
caroline		Finally.
caroline		They have me in this art program summer thing at Pratt...
tyler		I heard.
caroline		It's very prestigious due to my artistic greatness.
tyler		Don't pretend. I know you're proud. You should be.
caroline		There's, like, a thing...
tyler		A thing?
caroline		 A show where you show what you've done and stuff. Will you come?
tyler		Let me check my book. Abso-freaking- lutely. I'm camping out. I'm sleeping there the night before.
caroline		You're so retarded. Mom's been hyperventilating with joy.
tyler		Good. I'm sure Les was...
caroline		Your school's over, right?
tyler		Yes, it's over. Did Mom and Les get the beach house again?
caroline		Yup. What are we going to do for your birthday?
tyler		Nothing.
caroline		Can we have a party?
tyler		No.
caroline		A little one? At Mom's? With Aidan. I'll make Mom behave. No crying.
tyler		Like that's possible.
tyler		I know. But we have coasters.
ally		I don't do coasters till the third date.
ally		Is that you?
tyler		That's Michael. My brother.
ally		He looks like you... or you look like him. Does he play around here?
tyler		Not any more.
ally		Do you play?
tyler		It depends who you ask.
ally		If I asked anybody?
tyler		They'd say no. I try but it turns out you need talent.
ally		So what talents do you actually have?
tyler		Falconry. I come from a long line of falconers.
ally		There's a lot of money in that.
tyler		Well there is one thing...
ally		What's that?
tyler		Our appetizer.
tyler		It used to say "In Case Of Asteroid" but I took a shower and Aidan got high.
ally		So what kind of grade did you end up with from Vogelstein?
tyler		I don't actually get grades.
tyler		I'm not technically enrolled. I worked out an auditing thing.
ally		Oh. And The Strand is not a significant career choice.
tyler		I like the books.
tyler		You don't have to help me, you know.
ally		At the rate you're going, dish washing is going to be your life's vocation. I can say I knew you when.
ally		This is the playful, you get me all wet part? Right?
tyler		 You make it sound so cheap.
ally		It is cheap. I've seen this scene a hundred times.
tyler		I'm sorry. I didn't...
ally		You know what never happens in this scene, Tyler-who-doesn't-really-go- to-school? Tyler-who-doesn't-really care-about-his-job?
ally		This.
ally		No, that usually never happens.
tyler		Apologize.
ally		Never. Your middle name is Keats? Your parents are pretentious as hell.
tyler		Apologize.
ally		I'd rather eat monkeys.
tyler		I surrender! Oh my God, you're relentless.
ally		Victory at all costs.
tyler		Now... I'm furious.
ally		You should quit anyway.
tyler		Really? Why? Are cigarettes like bad for you or something?
ally		Is that a tattoo? Let me see.
tyler		It's not really...
ally		Please. It's very bad ass. All that ritualistic scarring.
ally		I'm sorry... I didn't... I didn't realize.
tyler		He killed himself.
ally		When?
tyler		When he was 21. He had just started working for my father.
ally		I thought he was a musician.
tyler		He was. But he wasn't making a living doing music and my father's a very compelling guy.
ally		Mine too.
aidan		Damn, you're not naked.
tyler		You're not Irish.
aidan		T, What happened in the kitchen? It looks like somebody's water broke.  Hi.
tyler		Ally, Aidan... Aidan, Ally.
aidan		Don't feel bad that you're more attracted to me than you are to him it happens to all of them.
ally		Oh! You're the assaholic!
aidan		Well, I--  Wait. What?
aidan		Alright, you two. Up. Dressed. Let's go. "Around The World" party on the third floor... a lot of ugly but a lot more alcohol. Let's go.
ally		I can't, I would, I'd love to, but I've gotta get home, my dad's waiting up.
aidan		Ally. Ally. Listen to me, young lady. One drink. From any country. I'll even put France on the table. One drink. Your choice. And we're gone.
ally		 One drink?
tyler		 One drink?
aidan		 One drink.
aidan		Hey, how we doin'?
aidan		What? What do you want me to say? That I'm sorry? You want me to say I"m sorry? 
aidan		I'm sorry.
ally		Tyler...
ally		I, need, you... to call... my dad.
tyler		Oh. OK. Sure.
tyler		Your phone's dead. Just tell me the number and I'll call him...
tyler		Ally? Ally?
craig		...She was supposed to be back. She's not back ... call Ted Proferes ... and what's his face in the 9th...and call me back. Just do it, Leo!
ally		...oh God oh God oh God oh God...
ally		...I'm sorry. I fell asleep...
craig		You turned your phone off.
ally		I forgot to charge it.
ally		That's mine. From my desk.
ally		How could you?
craig		You were gone all night. I was trying to get some information.
ally		How could you go through my stuff like I'm a suspect?
craig		Then stop acting like one.
ally		What is the matter with you, Dad? You have no respect for me and the way I'm feeling, my privacy. We talked about this! You're totally paranoid...
craig		You watch your mouth!
ally		You don't do anything. You don't go anywhere except work. You have no life.
craig		My life is right here! In this house. The same place as yours. But you're spitting all over it.
ally		Jesus Christ, Dad! I went on a date!
craig		I smell alcohol...
ally		So do I.
ally		Dad...
craig		THIS IS MY HOUSE!
ally		YOU WANNA BURY ME IN IT?
craig		Ally!
aidan		...So? She just left? No good bye?
aidan		Maybe she heard you play the guitar.
tyler		You were the one dumping Jello shots down her throat. You almost killed her.
aidan		There are sins of omission and sins of commission, my friend. I've dealt with mine and I've forgiven myself... you should do the same.
aidan		...little help, T... little help, little help, lotta help... TYLER?!
aidan		What the hell was that?
tyler		Penance. I have to get to work.
ally		I didn't know where else to go.
aidan		How's she doin'?
tyler		She's pretty shaken up.
tyler		We've really got to fix that dead bolt.
aidan		My bad. Sorry.
tyler		Don't be. You think she'll sleep?
aidan		You realize if she had had the S.L.U.T
aidan		Too soon?
tyler		I told her she could stay here... Are you alright with that?
aidan		As long as she needs.
tyler		You're up.
tyler		Can I get you anything?
tyler		I'll be out here if you need me.
janine		I can't believe you still come down here.
tyler		It's not so far. I can't believe you still get his coffee... three sugars, no milk?
janine		 Old habits. You're not writing anything bad about me, are you?
tyler		Not today.
janine		I gotta run. Early meetings.
janine		I probably won't see you before Saturday so...happy birthday.
janine		I'll be sure to tell your father that you said hello.
tyler		Hey...
ally		Hey...
ally		Where did you go?
tyler		Downtown.
ally		Why?
tyler		There's a coffee shop. I brought you a Bialy.
ally		New York is full of coffee shops.
tyler		This one was our place... Michael's and mine. We had breakfast there all the time ... Maybe not as many times as I think we did. But enough times. Anyway we ate there that morning. It was the last place I saw him.
ally		Oh. So you go there to write? To him?
tyler		Maybe. Sometimes. I don't know. But I guess I wanted to tell him about you.
ally		My mom was murdered eight years ago. The same year your brother died.
ally		You don't need to say anything, I know you're sorry. Everyone's always sorry, you know?
ally		It's just, I need you to know that, my dad, he's not an evil guy. 
ally		Wounded? Our house is like the recovery room, or the critical care unit or something.
ally		I don't feel like that, though. I feel like I'm getting stronger and like I'm leaving him behind to swim in it all by himself.
craig		Tell me something, Matthews, do you like paperwork?
matthews		No, sir.
craig		Me neither. Nobody likes paperwork. But paperwork keeps our ship afloat. Paperwork makes it possible for me to keep track of all the scumbags. But I can't do that if newbies like you are incapable of remembering standard filing...
leo		Jim...
craig		...What?
leo		Ally called Sharon.
craig		What?
leo		She said to tell you, she's with friends, and she's fine.
craig		What friends?
les		She didn't say.
craig		That's all?
leo		I'm sorry, Jim. Listen, why don't you come over this weekend? We'll get the grill going. Sharon wants to see you. We can have some people, nice people...You can circulate a little...
craig		No.
leo		Jim...
craig		Leo, no. Stop.
aidan		Hello?
diane		Aidan, it's Diane.
aidan		Oh, hey Diane.
aidan		T! It's your mom.
aidan		Hey Diane.
diane		You really have to fix that door. I'm so sorry to just show up. I called but your phone was busy.
aidan		No problem. Come on in.
tyler		Hey mom.
diane		Hey. I'm so sorry honey. I tried to call but...
ally		Hi. Nice to meet you.
diane		Ally. It's lovely to met you. Just lovely.
tyler		Sit down, Mom. Can I get you something?
diane		Yes. Aidan, would you bring back that spliff, please?
aidan		Uh..okay.
diane		Thank you.
aidan		How's work, Diane?
diane		Well ...  I just found housing for a family that had been in shelters for three weeks. So that's good. On the other hand, I have six other families.
diane		But Tyler, I wanted to talk to you.
ally		Come on, Aidan.
aidan		What?
ally		Nice to meet you, Diane.
aidan		Don't freaking bogart that joint, Diane.
diane		Sorry.
diane		Well, first, your sister is all excited about your birthday at the house. I wish you'd told me.
tyler		I wish she'd told me. It was a unilateral Caroline decision. Will you make sausage and peppers?
diane		Of course. Tyler, Your father is driving me crazy. I shouldn't even be discussing this with you. I can't get him to say he'll come to your sister's exhibit. Her art exhibit. He says he's in the middle of an IPO.
diane		Les says I shouldn't broker. I should let them be on whatever road they're on.
tyler		I'll get him there.
diane		She cares about this, even though she's pretending she doesn't.
tyler		I'll get him there, mom.
diane		You will?
tyler		Yes.
diane		Thank you. Thank you.
diane		Why don't you bring that lovely girl to your birthday?
tyler		 Diane...
diane		Sorry. Sorry. I love you, darling, but this place reeks of marijuana.
ally		That was weird. I assume most moms don't smoke weed in front of their son's...um
aidan		Piece of ass?
ally		You know, you're a poet.
aidan		Hey. I know one thing. I know that in the time I've lived with Tyler, he has never introduced a girl ... woman...female...to his mom before.
ally		It's not like he had a choice. She ambushed us.
aidan		Yeah, but he would've shoved you in a closet or something. Or literally pretended you were a hallucination.
ally		Ha ha.
aidan		I mean it. It's the first time. Ever.
ally		Did it ever occur to you that that's kind of weird?
aidan		No.
janine		Charles, it's your son.
charles		What?
janine		On the phone.
charles		Okay.
charles		Tyler, you're on speakerphone.
tyler		It's about Caroline's show. Are you planning on attending?
tyler		Caroline's show.
tyler		 You are coming, right?
tyler		Dinner? That's not...
charles		I'll make a reservation and have Janine call you.
caroline		Make a wish.
caroline		Retarded. Tyler?
ally		You're the second member of this family I've washed dishes with.
diane		He was doing it to impress you. He's never washed a dish in his life.
ally		Wow.
ally		May I?
ally		That's exactly him. It's like the cigarette is the last Coca Cola in the desert.
ally		I can't believe he smokes in front of you.
caroline		Don't worry, I'm not that impressionable.
ally		You know when I was younger, we didn't have air conditioning in the house, so during the summer my mom and I would go to museums to cool down... she loved them all but The Met was always her favorite.
caroline		Mine too. The Met is one of my favorite places in the world.
ally		So... I heard you've got an art exhibit coming up.
caroline		 You wanna come?
ally		Was it that obvious? But only if you're OK with it. I don't want to impose and I'll completely understand if you don't want some random girl there.
caroline		You're not random... you're Tyler's girlfriend.
ally		You like?
tyler		Let's just skip dinner and I'll tell you how great you look in like eighteen different languages.
ally		You just want to skip dinner. I got you a tie.
tyler		I was going to make a joke about how I'm not prepared for the commitment of exchanging accessories and how neck wear especially is a slippery slope, but I should probably shut up and say thank you.
ally		You're learning.  Tyler puts on his tie in the mirror. He scowls.
tyler		Have you ever been here?
ally		 Yeah. Every Tuesday with my pop.
tyler		He's allowed to stand me up. But he's not allowed to stand you up. Or my sister.
tyler		I'll have a whiskey.
charles		Get me one too...
waiter		Yes. For the lady?
ally		I'm fine, thank you.
tyler		This is Alicia Craig. Ally, my father, Charles Roth.
charles		A pleasure.
charles		You're going to be a social worker?
ally		Yes. But with an area of focused responsibility. It's easier to find a job that way.
charles		What will your area be?
ally		Criminal Justice.
charles		Tough area.
ally		When I was little I wanted to play first base for the Mets. I don't think it's any harder than that.
charles		The Mets, huh.
ally		 I'm from Rockaway.
tyler		Dad's a Yankee fan. It has something to do with the payroll.
charles		It has to do with significant ball playing. You were a Yankees fan when you were little. You were Lou Piniella for Halloween.
tyler		Blind familial allegiance. I didn't know what overpriced, overfed, fat bastards they were.
charles		 Who's fat? What Yankee is fat? Tell me.
tyler		 It's a metaphor...
tyler		Roger Clemens.
ally		Shane Spencer.
ally		Nick Johnson.
charles		 He's big boned!
charles		How long has your dad been a cop?
ally		Twenty-two years.
charles		Would you excuse me please... I'm so sorry.
ally		It's OK.
ally		It's just a call. He held out 'til dessert.
charles		I'm sorry...And your mother?
ally		She passed away when I was eleven.
charles		Ah.
ally		She was murdered. I was there.
ally		 I never told you that part.
tyler		Why are you saying this now?
ally		I don't know.
charles		And, here you are.
ally		Yup. Here I am.
ally		I think he's lovely.
tyler		God.
tyler		Don't say it.
charles		I have to go to the office.
tyler		You have somewhere else to be, Dad.
charles		The exhibit runs til nine. You guys take the car. I'll meet you.
tyler		I don't believe you.
charles		That's all there is, Tyler.
tyler		It's not good enough.
charles		I don't have to justify anything to you. Take the car. I'll get a cab. I'll meet you.
diane		I brought you every flavor.
caroline		 I'm ready to go home now.
tyler		Ally...?
ally		Where are you going?
tyler		I have something I've got to do.
ally		Now?
tyler		Are you capable of taking care of yourself for an hour? Do you need me here every minute, or what?  He slams out.  Ally looks like she's been slapped.
janine		Tyler? Tyler? You can't just...
charles		It's fine Janine.
tyler		She drew you a picture.
charles		Put it on the table.
tyler		You have a daughter who sincerely believes you don't like her.
charles		If I have any questions about what my daughter may believe, I'll let you know.
tyler		Don't you at least want to know her? She's telling you something, Dad. She's communicating. Why aren't you riveted? Why isn't this the most important thing? At least for one night of your life?
charles		I've heard this song before, Tyler.
charles		It's fine, Khaleel.
charles		Who is this display for?
tyler		You, Mr. Roth.
charles		She knows I will take care of her.
tyler		And...?
charles		Sit the fuck down.
charles		And that I love her. I love her. Good God, you toss that word around like currency. You have no idea what it means.
tyler		Maybe not. Maybe Caroline doesn't either. Where would she have learned it?
charles		I have provided her world. And yours.
tyler		That does not mean you're allowed to shatter it whenever there's something better to do.
charles		Who the hell do you think you're talking to? You pedaled down here on your bike for Christ's sake. You have to take care of nothing. You are responsible for no one. You're a kid. You think you're the first one to lose anything? Do you think that there is anything you feel that I haven't already felt?
tyler		You didn't find him. I found him. And you're so tragically blind, the rest of your children are going to hang themselves on your watch.
janine		Stop! Stop!
janine		Get out of here Tyler.
ally		Oh my God.
ally		Okay.
ally		It's okay.
les		 I genuinely have no idea...are you having a seizure?
caroline		Time.
aidan		Berlin Alexanderplatz!
aidan		You people are culturally bankrupt.
tyler		Whose was that anyway?
caroline		Mine.
diane		Okay, you. Bed.
caroline		Gross. Gross. Gross me out the door.
les		You're just the prettiest girl.
aidan		Holy crap. What's with all the smiling?
caroline		A child could do Berlin Alexanderplatz, you spaz.
les		Hey!
diane		I want five minutes with my child before she ceases to be a child and decides I'm ruining her life.
diane		Aren't you a treasure.
aidan		I want a girlfriend.
tyler		What?
aidan		Dinners out, movies. Regular sex. That could be all right. For like, a summer.
ally		You're such a romantic.
aidan		And I've had all the races.
ally		Excuse me?
aidan		I've had all the races. I've been with girls from every...race.
tyler		That is the stupidest thing you've ever said, including that time with the bong in the emergency room.
ally		White girl.
aidan		Please. Like falling off a log. As a matter of fact...
ally		Shut up. Black girl.
aidan		But of course.
ally		Asian.
aidan		Twice.
ally		Latina.
aidan		Oui!
ally		A Latin girl actually slept with you? What's her name? She's out of the club.
ally		Eskimo.
aidan		Monica Ipellie. She works at the Public Library on 96th street.
ally		You slept with an Eskimo?
tyler		You went to the library?
aidan		Inuit. In-u-it, Ally. Try not to show your ignorance.
ally		I don't believe you.
aidan		Fine. Nice girl. While we were doing it, I couldn't get this little, like, song out of my head...
aidan		"Inuit, bum buh bum, I'm banging an Inuit, bum buh bum buh bum..."
ally		Prove it. Ten bucks.
aidan		You wanna go to the library?
ally		The minute we get off this train.
aidan		Fine.
ally		Tyler, are you coming?
tyler		I'll skip this particular bloodbath, thank you.
tyler		bum buh bum bum buh bum buh bum...
craig		Where is she?
tyler		What are you doing in my house?
craig		Where's my daughter?
tyler		She's not here now. She's at the library.
craig		Does she know?
tyler		No.
craig		I didn't think so. I figured you'd probably leave that up to me when you're done with her.
tyler		I'm not going anywhere.
craig		That's true, Tyler Roth, son of Charles and Diane. Brother of Caroline and Michael, deceased, suicide by hanging. You're kinda lost, aren't you? Taking a little vacation in coach before finding your way back to first class?
tyler		I'm the one she came to when you used her face as a punching bag.
tyler		She needs you.
craig		Get a fucking dead bolt.
ally		He banged an Inuit! She's really nice. And smart. I don't get it.
ally		What's going on?
tyler		Your dad was here.
ally		 What?
tyler		When I got home.
ally		I hate him!
tyler		There's more.
tyler		He knows me. Before I met you. He arrested me and Aidan. He gave me that gash over my eye.
ally		I don't understand.
tyler		I mouthed off to him. He ... responded. Then Aidan saw you guys together at school.
tyler		Aidan suggested...I...introduced myself to you.
tyler		Ally...
ally		I'm going to be sick.
tyler		Hey.
tyler		Don't do that. What are you doing?
ally		Do you realize what you've done?
tyler		Yeah.
ally		Did you think I would never find out? I mean, think about it. I had to find out eventually. You set it up that way.
tyler		But it doesn't mean anything. I didn't mean to hurt you,
ally		No. That's exactly what you meant to do.
aidan		Hey.
ally		Prick.
aidan		You had to tell her eventually...
aidan		Glass half full... you just saved yourself an awkward Thanksgiving.
aidan		She'll be back, T.
ally		It takes off the teflon.
ally		You should let it soak.
sergeant craig		Okay.
ally		I'm going upstairs.
caroline		Stop smiling. You look insane.
diane		I'm sorry, honey. I just... it's nice. Like an end of the summer send off.
diane		Have fun.
caroline		 Mom?
aidan		Hi.
aidan		Is this the, uh, that is, does, uh, Alicia Craig. Does she live here?
aidan		Oh great. I'm...
craig		You think I don't remember you?
aidan		No, sir.
ally		Who is it Dad?
ally		It's OK...
ally		Really.
ally		What do you want?
aidan		Look, I'm a prick.
ally		And...
ally		Dad...
aidan		Tyler's not.
aidan		Wait. Shit. This isn't really my thing.
ally		He lied to me.
aidan		He's in love with you.
ally		He'd like to think he is.
aidan		I don't know what that means...I've seen him look at one other girl the way he looks at you. She's a lot shorter and shares his DNA.
aidan		You don't have to forgive him today... just forgive him.
craig		Thanks for stopping by.
diane		Are you telling me, Ms. Spencer, that you intend to let those girls stay in your school?...Of course they're all sticking to the same story and that story is a load of crap!...
les		 She's pretty traumatized. I wanted to pull some names together in case we all decide she should talk to someone...
les		 There's no witnesses and it didn't happen on school property. The school won't do anything. They'll probably get away with it...
tyler		 She's asleep.  He sees Aidan and Ally. Stops short.
tyler		Last one ever. I swear.
ally		I don't care.
tyler		I know you're not here for me but, thank you for being here.
tyler		For what it's worth, I think you're amazing.
ally		It's not worth much. You made everything between us a lie.
tyler		I'm sorry.
ally		Okay. Now what? I'm supposed to just forgive you?
charles		How is she?
tyler		She's sleeping.
charles		How long do you think she'll sleep?
diane		I think she'll be out for a while. Would you like to wait?
charles		Thank you. I can't. I'll call her later.
diane		I'll tell her.
tyler		 You okay?
mean girl		Have you done something different with your hair? I love it!
teacher		Okay, okay. Enough.
bailiff		You posted.
charles		Destruction of private property and felony trespassing.
tyler		I didn't call you.
charles		I know you didn't.
charles		I have unleashed a raging shitstorm of epic proportions on the board of trustees of that pissant school that will not abate until those girls seek enrollment elsewhere. I give them a week.
charles		I know you think I'm a prick, but I have my uses.
charles		Can you come by the office to talk to the lawyers?
charles		Try not to vandalize any more schools in the meantime.
tyler		Thank you for bailing me out.
charles		No problem.
ally		Using the little sister is dirty pool.
tyler		 Is it working?
ally		Maybe.
tyler		 Hey...Hey.
ally		Hmmm.
tyler		I'll be back in an hour. I have to stop by my dad's office.
ally		 Do you want french toast or pancakes for breakfast?
tyler		Whichever tastes better a la mode.
ally		Say hi to your dad for me.
tyler		If I said I love you... what would you say?
ally		 I love you.
tyler		I love you too.
aidan		 French toast.
diane		Charles?
charles		Good morning Diane.
diane		What are you doing here?
charles		Tyler's coming by the office, but I thought I'd ride to school with Caroline first.
diane		Um...OK...sure...yeah...great. She's not ready though, she's going to need at least twenty minutes.
charles		 All right.
tyler		Are you canceling all together or are you just running late?
charles		 Are you already on your way?
tyler		I'm already here.
charles		I'm taking Caroline to school.
tyler		Take your time. I'll just wait in your office.
charles		It may be a while.
tyler		That's okay.
tyler		Janine in?
the receptionist		 She went for coffee.
tyler		She getting me any? Just kidding.
janine		Good Morning, Mister Roth.
tyler		Did you know about this?
janine		Who do you think scanned all the pictures?
janine		How old would he be?
tyler		Twenty-nine last May.
janine		It's really been that long? I could've sworn it was...
janine		I should be able to remember that. I'm sorry.
tyler		It's okay.
teacher		Caroline? Hello?  WIDE SHOT of the blackboard. It's unmistakable:  SEPTEMBER 11, 2001
michael roth		May 20, 1969 May 18, 1993
tyler roth		June 17, 1978 September 11, 2001
****Dialogues from script :Replacements.txt****

second draft		 February 19, 1999
another angle		 He attacks the underside of the sailboat which is covered with green algae muck that hangs a foot off the bottom of the boat.  The spatula scrapes away the green mess revealing the pure white underside of the boat.
summerall		That play, my friends, sums up the Redskins' running game all day long. Now Washington calls their last time out.
madden		Hey, the Dolphins do this as good as anybody. See, in a four, three, two, two, you got the guards... boom!... Plugging up the middle, then the corners... boom and
summerall		Third and twenty-two, but forget the first down with eight seconds showing and the Skins down by a touchdown.
madden		Could be the last play.
summerall		Could be the last play of the season if the players go out.
summerall		 Once again, if you haven't heard, it was announced during halftime that the N.F.L. Players Association will hold a press conference immediately following this game -- that would make it about five o'clock Eastern time -- and it is expected that
on redskinettes		 Twelve striking-looking women dressed in burgundy and gold are doing some inane chatter to a section of fans that ignore them.  The girls are led by pretty ANNABELLE FARRELL, a bundle of manic energy inside a body from heaven.  MADDEN  It's all about money, folks. More money, of course and ain't it always? The shame of it is the big losers are you out there, the fans.
summerall		 Here we go: Third down, eight seconds to play, ball on the Dolphins' thirty-three yard line. Skins down by a touchdown.
martel		Green 48! Green 48! Hut! Hut!
summerall		Well... Martel goes down ten yards short of a score.
madden		On maybe the last play of the season.
summerall		I think he might have slipped.
madden		Yeah, there's a lot of that going around.
bob		We're    coming to your house    tonight, and we're    gonna fucking kill    you! And if you got a    dog, we're gonna kill    your fucking dog too!
on annabelle		 Behind her, the rest of the cheerleaders are already walking away. Annabelle looks at Quarterback Martel with pure disgust as he walks off the field.  CUT TO:
augustine		Did they win or lose?!
augustine		That has the distinct tonal quality of a loss.
augustine		Nice medicine for a loss. Keeps us calm. Makes us not so sad. Keeps us on an even keel. Gives us some perspective, doesn't it? And we'll save the winning medicine for next Sunday, won't we?
augustine		Sounds exciting.
augustine		We'll want to talk to coach now, won't we?
tildon		 I think he slipped.
tildon		Mister O'Neil, let's face facts: The players are going out. It's gonna happen. And nobody wants to get hurt on the last play before a strike that could go on for the rest of the season.
augustine		Better? It always makes you feel better when you fire someone, we know it does, don't we? Yes...
wilson		Hey, man, I do what my
reporter		But you're already one of the highest paid players in the game. The fans just don't see the point of a player like you striking.
wilson		Let me tell you something: I'm a big man, you see?
wilson		There are some days when I am so beat up, that I cannot dress my own big ass. I asked management for a valet or some shit to help me dress and they said no way. So, fuck 'em!
on tv		 A handsome ex-player named Jerome Lindell steps up to a podium at a press conference. He's wearing a two thousand dollar suit.  On the TV he is identified with a super:  "JEROME LINDELL -- President -- National Football League Players' Association."  LINDELL  Therefore, I am recommending that all N.F.L. players walk out and not play until our demands are met. I want the players to walk out tall, to walk out righteous, to walk out in the knowledge that we do this as a team. We shall overcome the fat cats. I send peace to my union brothers.  The entire locker room is silent for a beat. And then everyone starts getting dressed again, maybe a little slower than before.
wilson		Shit, I'm goin' to Vegas.
pilachowski		... Six phone lines with internet access on two: One for defense and one for offense.
banes		We thought we would skip special teams for the moment.
pilachowski		Except for a kicker. We definitely need a kicker. A place kicker over a punter.
banes		The thinking being that if we lose the toss, we have to be able to at least kick off.
pilachowski		Okay. Here's the list of every player cut this past season. What we would like to do is...
evans		You won't need a center.
evans		Bored and ready to retire. I'm just looking for one more hit. One more really good hit.
evans		Hell, I'm rich. I got no complaint with Mister O'Neil. I just want a chance to play one last time. 
biker		Did you hear something?
bateman		What area code is 703?
kid		Nice hands.
clifford		 What else?
kid		A pack of Marlboro Reds, a pint of Martel Cognac and a box of Trojans, extra long.
clifford		Get out of here. I'm telling your mother you were talking like that.
manager		Hey, Clifford, somebody on the phone wants you to play football next weekend.
clifford		Tell 'em I gotta work Saturday. And I'm watching the Redskins on Sunday. Ain't nothing stopping me from watching the Redskins on Sunday.  No way that's gonna be
manager		 They said they'll pay you.
clifford		Pay me?    How much?
manager		 Ten thousand five hundred dollars!
clifford		 Ray, who the fuck is on the phone?!
manager		 It's the Washington Redskins!
jamal		 Don't look at him! He don't like being looked at, god damn it! No eye contact!
shane		And you look like that coach from the Seventies. From the Redskins. McGinty. Except you look a shitload older.
shane		You know what my nickname was in San Diego, don't you?
shane		As in, I hear 'em and I dump the ball.
shane		I got two concussions to prove it.
shane		 No kidding?
shane		Forty-five. And now you want to recruit me?
shane		Okay.   What's my
shane		I'm retired from football.
shane		I like being here. It's quiet. I like being alone.
mother		Louis, you got a phone call!
lou		 Who is it?
mother		It's the Washington Foreskins.
lou		What?! Ma, what are you, out a your tree?
mother		 I'm telling you they said it's the
on lou		 He sees what happens and quickly ducks into his apartment house.
roland		Cut right on me, now. Right on me.
roland		Not right on me, goddamn it!
roland		 Thank you, Lord!
evans		Nice. Try a roll to the right.
augustine		Here we go. Nice fat little hits.
on shane		 He drills a perfect spiral through the circle.  CUT TO:
reporter		As president of the Players' Association, what does your presence mean here, Mister Lindell?
lindell		Very simply, support for these fine players and union men. Washington D.C. is the home of freedom and the collective bargaining agreement. I am here to remind all Americans that the owners are no better than the robber barons of the Nineteenth Century. They have blatantly gone out and hired scabs, which is against all principles of our Constitution and the Declaration of Independence and probably even the Emancipation Proclamation.
lindell		And here come the Scabskins now!
players		Scabskins! Scabskins! Scabskins!
clifford		Oh God, there's Eddie Martel! And Wilson Jones! I love Wilson Jones! Yo, Wilson! Yo, player!
on wilson		 His big face looms right outside the bus window. He looks pissed off and scary.
lou		Hey, Lou Pacifico.
shane		Shane Falco.
lou		I know. I lost a ton a money on that Sugar Bowl disaster of yours. Wow. Did you get your butt kicked or what?
jamal		You know I don't take that shit.
andre		Be cool.
players		Scabskins! Scabskins!
sid		He told me he was a linebacker!
shane		I can see.
shane		Two.   No, wait.    Three.
pilachowski		Oh my God. That's disgusting!
lee		Not bad, Coach.
lee		You got it.
pilachowski		You're not serious.
banes		 I got a defensive end who's deaf!!
pilachowski		 I'll trade you for a tackle who's gonna play in a diaper.
banes		How can I coach a deaf man?!
banes		I can't believe it! I got to be able to communicate with him.
shane		Oh shit! No!
bateman		Hi, I'm Danny.
shane		 Shane.
bateman		Thank's, Coach!
shane		What was that?
shane		I'm very interested in that.
practice montage		 A)    BATEMAN  is lined up at middle linebacker. When the play starts, he runs headlong into four blockers and takes them all down with him.  B)    WIDE RECEIVER CLIFFORD FRANKLIN  beats his man, and turns as Shane, rolling out to his left, puts the ball right on his numbers. Franklin drops it.  C)    ANDRE AND JAMAL  On the snap, they pull to lead a sweep. Unfortu-nately, each thinks the play is to their side. They forearm each other and then get into a fight.  D)    LOU PACIFICO  boots one from thirty-five yards through the uprights. He smiles, takes out a Marlboro Light and a Bic and fires up.  E)    CLIFFORD FRANKLIN  pulls up, does a button hook and Shane puts the ball in his hands. Franklin drops it.  F)    LEE  the Sumo guy, hits the blocking sled and turns it over.  G)   BATEMAN  is down on the ground viciously punching another player as two assistants try to pull him off.  H)   FRANKLIN  is in a crossing pattern in the end zone. Shane puts the ball right in front of him. Unfortunately, it hits him in the hands.  CUT TO:
annabelle		Annabelle Farrell, head Redskinette.
shane		Excuse me?
annabelle		I'm in charge. Of the Redskinettes. The cheerleaders?
shane		Oh yeah, hi.
annabelle		I've been watching you. You look good. You look strong. Good quick release. Smart. You read defenses quickly. You're gonna do great.
shane		Hey... thanks.
annabelle		I saw your second concussion. The one
shane		I guess so.
annabelle		If there's anything you need, let me know. And I mean anything, okay? You understand?
shane		Sure.   I understand.
annabelle		They put you up at the Hilton?
shane		Yeah.
annabelle		Good. Remember: anything. You got it? Okay?
clifford		I know, Coach, I know.
clifford		Oh yeah, Coach, sure. In a, you know, romantic way.
clifford		Coach, wait! Can I still like touch my girl friends if I don't, you know, let go of the ball?
shane		... just glad to be back playing. That's all I've really got to say.
reporter		But where have you been? What have you been doing to make a living?
shane		Well... I've been involved lately in the... aquatic business...
mickey		You only played one game?!
roland		Actually, less than two minutes. I was a rookie third round pick in '93. We were playing Atlanta in the home opener. Near the end of the first quarter, they sent me in, I took a screen pass over the middle and got hit by both linebackers. Simultaneously. One a
mickey		Can you play on it now?
roland		I've been teaching high school football for five years. It's not a bad life. I'm good at it. There are some days when I actually love it. But for one more shot at this? Shit. I'd give it all up. This time, they're gonna have to take me out in a box.
clifford		I got Wilson Boone's locker, man. Do you believe that shit?
martel		Hey, you can't park there.
shane		Look, I don't want any trouble.
martel		You don't want any trouble?! You're taking my job away, but you don't want any trouble?  He doesn't want any trouble, but he puts this piece of shit in a no parking zone.
shane		Okay.   I'll move it.
martel		No, we'll do that for you. Go ahead, Wilson. Move it for him.
wilson		Who the fuck are you?
andre		We're the people who take care of the quarterback. We're the guards.
jamal		Put the car back. Gently.
wilson		Kiss my ass.
shane		 It's okay.
jamal		No, it's not.
jamal		 That's your ride, ain't it?
wilson		My windshield! You crazy motherfucker!
jamal		Move his car back.
wilson		My car!
wilson		No!   Stop!
wilson		Come on, help me, god damn it!
wilson		 You are gonna pay for this.
jamal		No I'm not. And quit messing with my man here. That includes his ride.
andre		Let's go to practice, Shane.
shane		Let's do that.
walter		Praise the Lord, Shane.
shane		Yeah.   Sure.
walter		Walt Cochran. Offensive tackle.
walter		Shane, will you witness with me?
shane		Will I what?
walter		Will you witness with me? For this upcoming practice.
shane		Now?
walter		Praise the Lord for giving us a way to eliminate, Shane. Why not talk to Him in the midst of performing his gift?
walter		Heavenly Father, thank you for allowing us to pee the poisons from our systems. Please help us in today's practice to be strong and...
banes		Where did you play, Judge? Wait. Do I call you judge?
judge		Your Honor, or Judge is fine. I played at Harvard. But I played in the days when you went both ways. Offense and defense. When players were really tough.  And where did you play college ball... I'm sorry, what was your name again?
wilkinson		Smith. Ray Smith. I played at a junior college nobody ever heard of. What position did you play on defense, Judge?
judge		Middle linebacker.
wilkinson		Yeah, big fellow like you, that's what I would have guessed.
judge		It was a different game in those days. Raw. Powerful. No tricks, like today.
wilkinson		You know, maybe you can show me some of your technique, Your Honor. Maybe you can show me some of that toughness.
judge		I'd be glad to!
annabelle		 You would think he's done enough.
annabelle		McGinty, I mean.
shane		I was kind of thinking the same thing.
annabelle		My theory is he came out of retirement to see if he could win with losers.  Oh, shit. I'm sorry. I didn't mean...
shane		 Hey, it's okay. I've been called worse.
annabelle		Like    after that Sugar Bowl    game? I guess you could    survive anything after    that.
shane		Sometimes I feel like everybody in the world saw that game. Like I could go to India and some little guy would run up to me and say, 'Boy, did you suck in
shane		So, how come you're such a fan?
annabelle		My dad. He's a huge Redskin fan. For years. He's in his twenty-ninth year at the Senate Office Building. As a guard, not a senator. The only thing that keeps him going he says, is me and the Redskins. That's where I get it. My fan-ness.  Are you scared?
shane		Scared? Well... yes. Absolutely.
annabelle		It's okay. Anybody would be. But you're good. And you'll do good.
shane		Well, thank you. Look, I gotta study the play book tonight. So... I'll see you.
annabelle		Break a leg tomorrow.
shane		What?!
annabelle		It's    from the theater. For    opening night. You say    the worst thing that    can happen. And
judge		Alright, this is how we used to stop a running back.
wilkinson		I can't wait.
wilkinson		Oooh... got me a judge! Man, that felt good!
lindell		 Don't be asking    for no autographs from    the real players and    then go in and watch    the scabs!
lindell		 That is not the message we want to send our children!
evans		You okay?
evans		Remember to nod your head on the snap.
shane		 Nod my head?
evans		For    when Murray's in. The    deaf kid. Hello? He    needs to look at you on    the snap.
pilachowski		What are you, crazy? Nobody eats right before a game.
lee		I always ate before a big match. I need the bulk.
madden		... Pretty bold move by New England Patriot owner Victor Kiam, who went out and bought an entire semi-pro team once the strike happened. 
summerall		Like Shane Falco, the enormously talented college quarterback from Ohio State, who never fulfilled his potential in the pro's.  Wow, remember that
madden		Oh, yeah, they were absolutely decimated!
summerall		Dusted. And if I'm not mistaken, Falco set a record in that game for Bowl interceptions. Anyway, for some of these players this is another shot; a last shot, probably, for a guy like Falco...
announcer		 Ladies and gentlemen, your Washington Redskins!
announcer		 Here's the starting defense today...
announcer		 At middle linebacker, number 56, Daniel Bateman!
on bateman		 He trips big-time into the side of the helmet. He bounces  to the other side, bounces again and is shot out of the front of it like a cannon ball.
on cheerleaders		 Bateman bounces out of the helmet and takes out the first six cheerleaders.  Girls fly left and right.       One girl is knocked out of her shoes.
summerall		Oh, my...
in stands		 Even the hardcore Todd, Rob and Bob can hardly look at the carnage.
outside stands		 A contingent of strike players like Eddie  Martel and Wilson Jones huddle in the parking lot. They are laughing their asses off as they watch on a personal TV.
on field		 Cheerleaders are down and screaming in pain. Annabelle is running from girl to girl, doing triage.
on bateman		 He's sheepishly standing to one side as trainers come out to assist.
jamal		Bastards.
announcer		 And now... uh, the rest of the Washington Redskins.
andre		That's where I stand.
lee		No it's not.
andre		Come on, man, that's my spot in the huddle.
andre		... Fat fucking nip! You don't know shit!
lee		What did you call me?!
andre		You heard me, you tub a rice shit!
shane		Hold on, what's the problem here?
lee		I'm gonna kick your black ass...
andre		You ain't kickin' jack shit...
jamal		 Don't be messing with my brother...
shane		Hey, hold on...
ref		Delay of game!    Five yards!
in huddle		 Lee suddenly punches Andre through his face guard. Andre knocks into Shane and spins him around. Jamal then goes to punch Lee, he misses and nails Shane in the back of the helmet.  Shane goes down hard.
summerall		... I don't know. Something seems to be going on in the huddle. It looks like... yes, Shane Falco is on his back. They haven't run a play yet but Falco is down.
madden		This is not a good sign.
shane		 What happened? Am I hurt already?
shane		God damn it! I am the quarterback! I am the only one supposed to talk in the huddle!
andre		Yeah, but he took my place...
shane		I don't give a shit!
shane		Huddle up!
shane		If you've got something to say, raise your hand! Is that understood?!
lee		Suppose like, you don't feel good. Or you're hurt or something like that. Then what?
shane		Then you tell me before the huddle starts! Okay, listen up: 68 blue east storm toss. On two.
shane		What?!
jamal		That's to the right... right?
andre		No, it's to the left.
shane		It's to the right!
jamal		You better be quiet, Shane, they'll hear you.
ref		Delay of game!     Five yards!
madden		Well, Pat, so far the Redskins have minus ten yards offensively.
shane		Blue 68. Blue 68! Hut! Hut!
shane		Have you suddenly decided you don't like me, Jamal?
jamal		Oh. You said it was to the right, didn't you?
shane		Okay. Let's try something simple. 18 red left slot open.  That's to the left!
shane		Eighteen red! Eighteen red! Hut! Hut!
shane		Yeah!
cochran		You see. We should have prayed.
shane		Shut up! Pass. 22 Solo right slot 'A,' Y stick. On one.
shane		Twenty-two green.    Hut!
summerall		 Washington comes up a minus fourteen yards on their first possession.
earl		Wide right! You got wide right! Check on the wing!
patriot qb		Blue fourteen!
on sideline		 Defensive Coordinator Banes rolls his eyes.  The Ref moves the ball five yards and gives the offside sign.
patriot qb		Green eighty-seven!
on sideline		 Banes is screaming something unintelligible at Bateman.
summerall		 I think the Redskins just set a record for penalties in the first three minutes. We're waiting for the stats on that...
on shane		 He's rolling in the back field again looking for a receiver.
shane's pov		 Nothing but meat coming at him.
shane		What?
lee		I don't feel good.
andre		Oh, God!
cochran		Oooooh...
jamal		Man, that's ripe!
evans		Shane, we got to move!
shane		Okay. On the count of three. Everyone more left. Hut! Hut! Hut!
patriot lb		What the fuck is this?
summerall		John, how many years have we been calling games together?
madden		Seventeen, I think.
shane		U brown right, west 19 A lead. That's you, Mickey. Puke on him if you have to.
on huddle		 The huddle stops and they break for the line of scrimmage.
on lee		 He lines up face to face with the Patriots' defensive end.  Lee breathes in the guy's face and the Patriot gags.  SHANE  Hut!  Lee runs right over the guy.       He's quickly  followed by Lamont with the ball.  Lamont runs for eighteen yards and a first down.
summerall		 That puts the Redskins in field goal range. And here comes Pacifico to see if he can get them on the board before the half ends.
on pacifico		 He flicks his smoke away as he runs out onto the field.
shane		Hut!
on pacifico		 He gets high fives all around. Then Bateman runs up and in his ecstasy, slaps Pacifico in the head.  Pacifico goes down, knocked out cold.
on cheerleaders		 Led by Annabelle, the girls are doing a stirring finale to "Hail to the Redskins."  CUT TO:
shane		We can't put three plays together without a penalty, a fumble of a fight.
shane		You're good. You're really good.
on wilkinson		 Earl is covering the intended receiver. He deftly steps in front of the guy, and makes a diving catch.
summerall		Another terrific interception by Smith. That's his second.
madden		Yeah, this guy is a player.
madden		According to the Redskins, Ray Smith... is... that's weird. No college given, no high school given. It just says he's been a resident of the state of Maryland for the last four years and five months. Likes to embroider.
shane		Okay, let's all take a few seconds to think about what we were doing for a living... just last week.
shane		Good. Let's kick ass. Red right pass 15 x
shane		Red fifteen! Red fifteen! Hut!
montage		 A)   SHANE  is under pressure but he rolls smoothly and rockets the ball downfield.  Murray pulls it in for fifteen yards.  B)   SHANE  rolls left off the shotgun, fights off a cornerback and throws back across field, complete to Lamont coming out of the backfield.  C)   PATRIOT  is calling for a fair catch on a punt. He catches the ball but Bateman flies INTO FRAME and decks him. Flags fly.  D)   ANDRE AND JAMAL  are blocking side by side, pushing their men back as Lamont squeezes through with the ball.  E)   EVANS  is pass blocking like the all pro that he is. He knocks his man flat and then doubles up on Cochran's man.  F)   BATEMAN  is pursuing a running back.   He knocks down an official and runs right over him. Then he gets his hands on the running back and pushes him out of bounds and then knocks over a photographer.  G)   SHANE  pumps once and then drills a twenty yard spiral.  Clifford Franklin beats his man and dives for the ball. He bobbles it, and then squeezes it to his stomach as he hits the ground.  CUT TO:
on pacifico		 Boom!   He boots the extra point.  Scoreboard:    Patriots 17, Redskins 10.  DISSOLVE TO:
shane		Hut, hut!
on franklin		 He's wide open five yards from the goal line.
on shane		 They're breathing down his back.
shane's pov		 He sees Franklin and cocks his arm. Suddenly, opposing jerseys are everywhere.  Shane dumps the ball. He's immediately decked by a defensive end.
on ball		 We watch the flight of it in SLOW MOTION. We FOLLOW it right INTO the hands of... a New England Patriot defensive back.
on shane		 He's down and not moving.
summerall		 Falco is intercepted. That's too bad.
on shane		 He's helped off the field and onto the bench.
bateman		The ball. Okay, Coach.
patriot qb		Hut, hut, hut!
on crowd		 They go wild!
on annabelle		 She does a cartwheel.
shane		I can't...
summerall		 Here comes Falco with eighteen seconds left on the clock.
shane		22 green!
shane		Check! Black 43! Black 43!
andre		What's that mean?
reese		 He's changing the play. Listen!
shane		Black 43!
lamont		 Is this right?
shane		 Black 43 left!
shane		Hut!   Hut!
summerall		 Lamont scores!
summerall		 With eight seconds remaining, Pacifico will try the extra point that will send this game into overtime.
on pacifico		 He sets up for the kick.
on shane		 He waits for the snap.
shane		Hut!
reese		We won, Shane.   We won!
shane		... ultimately, it's a pain thing, you know? I mean, it's Darwinian, the survival of the numbest. Whoever can take the pain most, gets the largest contract. It's sick.
woman		IN RED Exactly. Let me buy you another.
shane		 I'm glad that you are concerned.
shane		I would like.
shane		Here's home.
shane		 Oooooh. Bookends.
annabelle		 Go away. Both of you.
shane		 These are my guests.
shane		Why did you do that?
annabelle		You were about to be rolled.
shane		 That's what I was hoping.
annabelle		They work the bar downstairs looking for drunk Redskins.
shane		I guess they found one.
annabelle		Don't feel so bad. It's a rookie mistake.
annabelle		Here.   Take this.
shane		 What is it?
annabelle		It's for the pain. Take it. It's only a little bit illegal.
shane		Oh, God. I've got to go to the bathroom. It's far away, isn't it?
annabelle		I'll help. We'll just take our time.
annabelle		Kidneys.
shane		Oh, man. My hair hurts.
annabelle		You took a hell of a beating. The martinis didn't help, either.
annabelle		Don't be afraid if you've got blood in your urine. That's normal.
annabelle		Yes.
annabelle		Yes.
annabelle		Are you kidding? You were catatonic.
shane		No blood.
annabelle		Good.   Back to bed.
shane		May I ask you a personal question?
shane		Do you do this for all Redskin quarterbacks?
annabelle		Of course not.
shane		Then why me?
annabelle		I don't know. I guess I can't resist a man who can take a hit.
shane		I can't take a hit!
annabelle		Shhh. It's all in your head. Now, get some sleep.
annabelle		You're the golden boy in the press this morning.
annabelle		'Falco scores big.'  Hey, a lot of the regular players are starting to cross the picket line.
annabelle		It doesn't say.
annabelle		Where are you going?
shane		McGinty called a dinner meeting with the whole team.
shane		Thank you. Thanks for... everything.     You saved my life.
annabelle		No. Probably just your wallet and your watch.
shane		And that pill, that sure worked.
annabelle		You're basic double D Vicodin. But be careful: It's habit- forming. The best stuff always is.
shane		Well...
annabelle		Ice both knees and that shoulder before bed.
montage		 A)    ANDRE AND JAMAL  are trying to hail a cab on Wisconsin Avenue. Suddenly, one cab, then two, then four SLAM on their BRAKES.  Cabbies hop out to open their doors for the brothers.  B)    ROLAND LAMONT  walks down G Street with Brian Murray. Brian spots something in a store window and stops Roland.  Roland gasps as he sees himself duplicated on ten TV screens in an appliance store. He's on tape being interviewed at a Redskins' practice.  C)    EARL WILKINSON  dressed in casual chic, is moving quickly through Lord and Taylor's Department  Store    with two sales clerks in tow. He stops,    grabs four cashmere sweaters, smells    them, hands them to one clerk and moves    on.  D)    LOU PACIFICO  is standing in front of the White House. He has a line of ten people who are paying five bucks for an autographed picture of himself that he hands out from a huge stack.  CUT TO:
reporter		Coach, what will be your strategy against New York this Sunday?
newsperson		 ... The Palm patrons showed an impromptu appreciation tonight for the new Washington Redskins. They may be unknowns and far from superstars, but it sure looks like they have charmed the fans.
shane		Hi.    Come in.
annabelle		No.
annabelle		We don't travel with the team. So, here's Tylenol with codeine, regular Vicodins, the magic bullet one that I gave you before, and a couple of Darvons if you actually break something. Pop 'em in the ambulance.
shane		Wow.    Thanks.
annabelle		I'll be watching on TV. The Giants got back three of their four defensive linemen.
shane		Yeah.   I know.
annabelle		What can I say? Go from the shotgun and scramble your ass off.
morris		 Hello, again!
madden		That's all-pro Hank Morris's third sack, his second here in the fourth quarter and the sixth of the day for
summerall		If he can stay alive that long. Ten-three New York in what has turned out to be an incredible defensive duel.
lindell		... because it's about brothers, and brotherhood and standing together against the oppressors. That's why I am so grateful to our Teamster brothers who have joined us here today in New York to protest the greed squad known as the N.F.L. owners.
shane		 You got to double up on Morris.
evans		He's too far outside for me to get to him.  Bring him down and sit on him.
cochran		He's huge! He's been beating the crap out of me all day! I feel like a rag doll out here.
lee		I'll help this time.
shane		Okay. Spread left 'A' Right, roll right Half Back Sail. On two.
shane		Red, fifteen.   Hut, hut!
shane		Huddle up!
shane		Same thing... Except...  Let him in. Don't touch him.
lee		What?
evans		Shane...
shane		Shut up! Let him through. On two.
shane		Red fifteen. Hut!
shane		Get him!
murray's pov		 It's absolutely QUIET  as he soars towards Morris's head, helmet and ball.  Wham! Murray's full body weight hits Morris in the helmet, which flies off and rolls across the field with the ball still stuck in it.  OUT OF THE SILENCE, we suddenly hear the hit and the crowd roar.  Morris goes down like a building with Murray buried in his throat.
madden		Lee scores! Lee scores! Lee scores! I love to see a fat guy score!
on lee		 He gets up in jubilation, spikes the ball/helmet combination, and runs through the back of the end zone.  But he doesn't stop. He's aiming for a low wall that separates the first row of fans from the field.
on mickey		 He launches himself into the stands in ecstasy.
on football		 It's hiked into Shane's hands and Pacifico boots the extra point.
pacifico		 What a hit!
evans		 I'm proud of you, kid.
andre		You're the one, you're the one, you're the one...
lee		You think that's worth a shoe deal?
shane		No! Danny, go down! You're using up the clock!
shane		 Time out!
bateman		Beautiful tackle, Shane!
summerall		 Now that's something you don't see everyday!
shane		We got time for one play, but if we don't get it out of bounds, the game is over.
pacifico		 No problem.
shane		Seriously?
pacifico		 You hold it. I'll kick it.
madden		I can't believe it! McGinty is gonna let Pacifico try the field goal from sixty-five yards out!
summerall		Hey, John, this kid has got a heck of a foot.
stram		But sixty-five yards? Come on!
summerall		 No, I think you imagined that one, John.
shane		You look great, Lou, you know that?
lou		Really? Thanks, Shane. That means a lot to me.
shane		Hut!
annabelle		Are you hurt?
shane		No.     Not really.
annabelle		You're getting used to being slapped around. That's a good sign.
shane		I...
annabelle		Would you like to come in and make love?
shane		Yes. No. I'm here because ... I don't want to be alone.
annabelle		Most    of the world feels that    way. You don't have    to be embarrassed about    it.
shane		But to tell you the truth... I'm kind of scared of you.
annabelle		I won't hurt you.
annabelle		That shoulder is going to need special handling.
shane		You know what hurts
annabelle		I can't imagine.
shane		Their defensive end punched me in the mouth.
shane		Seriously. It's killing me.
shane		... after that game, after being beaten that badly in front of the whole country, after humiliating myself, my team, my school, my family, I mean -- did you know that I set two Sugar Bowl records?! I was sacked eleven times! I threw six interceptions!
annabelle		Okay.   Calm down.
shane		Anyway, after that, I could never seem to adjust in the pros. I was too scared. I lost my balls.
annabelle		Well, they're back.
shane		You know what I mean. My nerve. I lost the edge you need to play this game.
annabelle		I don't believe that. I don't think it just goes away. It was only one bad day, Shane. Everybody has those.
shane		No. Somehow, I convinced myself that I couldn't ever win the big game. I got so down, that I was afraid to be playing when a game was on the line. I was afraid to screw up. That's the sure sign of a loser. From there, it wasn't very far to thinking that I'll never win, that I didn't deserve to win at anything. Including love.
annabelle		You're wrong. You're winning now. You're winning me.
insert		 We see two photographs of Earl: One with his current beard and the other, his clean-shaven mug shot of five years ago.  REPORTER  ... the All Pro Miami Safety who was serving five to seven years in the Maryland state penitentiary for three counts of aggravated assault. As you may recall, one of those counts was against a Baltimore City police officer and resulted in that officer being hospitalized for quite some time.
anchor		Any idea how Wilkinson's identity was discovered and who leaked it to the media?
reporter		No, Bob, but rumor has it that the National Football League Player's Association had something to do with it.
anchor		Thanks, Hank.  That we know of.
augustine		You used to love asparagus soup. They say that when the taste buds go, you're at the beginning of the end.
lee		You'll score, too, with a Cadillac from Coleman Cadillac. It's a big car for a big man.
lee		 You'll score, too, with a Cadillac from Coleman's Cadillac. It's a big car for a big man.
lee		 You'll score, too, with a Cadillac from Coleman Cadillac. It's a big car, for a big man.
lee		 What?! I'm not doing it again! Who are you, Orson Welles?! This is nuts!
shane		What's this?
martel		This is a visit.
shane		A visit. Who let you in?
martel		I used to nail one of the housekeepers.
shane		Lucky girl.
martel		 You know who these guys are, don't you?
shane		Dallas Cowboys.     Howdy.
martel		You'll be seeing a lot of these guys tomorrow.
shane		What do you want?
martel		Who, me? Not much. But these boys wanted a little head start on you.
shane		I'm flattered that you actually think we have a chance to win.
martel		It can be a game of luck. And under no circumstances can we allow a scab team to go three and O. Especially against the Dallas Cowboys. It's just not good for the
shane		Is the union behind this 'visit'?
martel		I can't really say, Shane. By the way, have you ever tried throwing a football with bruised ribs?
martel		The pain makes it damn near impossible.
martel		And one other thing: I want you to stay away from Annabelle.
martel		The sad fact is she won't give me the time of day. But you can't have everything I want. I can't let that happen. So, you gotta stop seeing her. Just on principle.
martel		Let me hear you say it.
martel		Come on. You can do it.
shane		 I won't go out with her
martel		Good.  Hey, have a great game!
lindell		I think that Mister Matheson here, and myself, are very close to an agreement that will put the 'pro' back in pro-football.
reporter		Mister Matheson, what are the sticking points in the negotiations as far as the owners are concerned?
matheson		Only one: that the players immediately go back to work with no change in the existing contract.
al		Good evening from the Big O here in Washington D.C. where the mighty Dallas Cowboys take on the Cinderella Washington 'Scabskins' as they have come to be known. Hi, I'm Al Michaels and we are witnesses to a unique matchup tonight as Shane Falco and a contingent of strike players go up against the entire regular squad of the Dallas Cowboys. Yes, you heard right: every Cowboy has now crossed the picket line, some as late as this afternoon, and they will all play tonight. Can a rag tag group of hasbeens and castoffs stand up to what was once called America's team? And what about the strike itself? It has been so ineffective that many predict it will be over before this game ends. Stay tuned as Boomer and Dan join me for strike ball, D.C. style.
shane		Whatever you say, Coach.
al		That    is one    very big leg    on Lou    Pacifico. He's    a big    reason why this    strike    team is two
dan		But the fact is, a kicker does not an offense make. I think tonight the Scabskins will have a very rude awakening.
boomer		But you have to admit, Dan, Falco is proving to be the real thing.
dan		Well, Boomer, no, I don't have to admit anything.
boomer		 Here we go...
annabelle		Shane!
butler		No problem.
on shane		 He under-throws a very weak-looking pass to Lamont.  Shane grits his teeth against the pain.
butler		I'm gonna autograph your body with bruises, you scab-ass son of a bitch!
shane		 Like Christmas morning.
dan		What pursuit! Butler never gave up on him. That's a 270-pound guy who moves like a halfback.
boomer		Dan, I think Butler's hit on Falco was late, to tell you the truth.
dan		Well, of course you do. You were a wimp quarterback.
al		Easy, guys.
shane		Okay.    Red right 15 X hook.
shane		15 X hut!
lamont		Shane!
al		That's the end of the
dan		Al, the battle is being fought and won in the trenches. You can't expect a bunch of pick- up players to stand up to a professional pass rush like the Cowboys.
boomer		There's still a whole half left, Dan. And remember, Falco is proving to be a second- half quarterback.
dan		You got to be kidding.
boomer		Those big, fat boys in the trenches get awful tired. You ought to know that, Dan.
al		Okay, let's join Chris Berman with our half- time show. Chris?
al		What's wrong with you guys?!
boomer		He started it.
dan		I did not! You called me fat!
boomer		I did not! But you are!
al		Stop it!
shane		I'm sorry, Roland. That was a great block.
roland		For my last play in football, I'll take that block.
roland		I thought you were going to score. What happened? Did you slip?
roland		That's what I thought.
shane		You were a warrior, Roland. I'm gonna miss you.
roland		It was a dream come true. Go kick some ass for me.
sid		Hey, Shane, I just heard. Congratulations!
wilkinson		Congratulations on what?
sid		Shane is staying on. He's gonna be Martel's backup.
andre		Is that true?
shane		Yes, Andre. It's true.
franklin		I got to tell you, Shane, you played the first half like you were staying. Like you already had a contract.
shane		You're right, Clifford. And I'm sorry. But now I want to go out there and either beat these bastards or die trying. I never wanted to beat anybody so bad in my life.
earl		I don't know what yawl are doin' tomorrow, but my ass is goin' back to jail. But if I gotta go, I want to go back a winner.
evans		Hell, I'm retiring. I have thirty minutes of football left in my whole career. I'm homicidal!
bateman		Me, too, Reese!
earl		Let's get it on!
shane		Gentlemen, our problem is the Cowboys aren't afraid of us. But they should be!
lamont		Damn straight!
shane		We've got one chance on offense to make our stand -- the first play of the half.
jamal		One touchdown ain't gonna help, Shane.
shane		No.     But one nasty-ass play    might. We just gotta    be brave. And trust    each other.
shane		Help me with this.
shane		Somebody has to tape me up.
dan		It's about time. I say let the professionals back on the field. The fans deserve nothing less.
boomer		Yeah, you would say that.
on ball		 The Dallas kicker puts the ball in the end zone for a touchback.
annabelle		Are you okay? Is it your side?
shane		I'm okay. I owe you an apology.
annabelle		What?     You do?
shane		Yes. I'll explain later. But thank you for believing in me. You give me strength just looking at you.
butler		That wasn't too smart.
shane		Suck my dick.
linebacker		Are you ready for more
shane		Blue thirteen! Blue thirteen! Hut! Hut! Hut!
montage		 On the snap, many things happen at once:  A)   COCHRAN  sticks his fingers inside Butler's face mask and pokes both eyes. Butler screams!  B)   SHANE  throws the ball as hard as he can at the middle Linebacker and hits him in the crotch. The guy grabs himself and collapses.  C)   CLIFFORD FRANKLIN  kicks his defender in the shins as hard as he can. The defender screams and falls down.  D)   BATEMAN  gets a cornerback across from him in a choke    hold. The guy can't breathe but Bateman holds on.  E)   WILKINSON  lifts up his defender's face guard and connects with a right hand to the guy's chin.  F)   LEE  pulls the defensive lineman in front of him to the ground. Then he falls on him. The guy screams.
defender		He's got a knife!
butler		 He scratched my eyes out!
linebacker		He hit me on purpose!
ref		Unsportsmanlike conduct, number 72, number 81 and number 87 on the offense, fifteen yards...  ... how many yards so far?
on ball		 A ref is taking a very long walk with it. He stops at the Redskin two-yard line and puts it down.
shane		Okay, everybody, stick
butler		I can't believe you went for my eyes!
cochran		Shut up! I'm gonna do it again 'cause it was fun!
shane		Black 98! Black 98! Hut!
on cochran		 He drops Butler with a vicious forearm.  Shane flicks the ball over the middle to Murray who pulls it in for fifteen yards and a first down.  CUT TO:
shane		Hut!   Hut!
on cochran		 He slips while he's blocking Butler who takes  advantage of the situation and blows by him.
on shane		 He's got Franklin crossing in the end zone. He cocks and throws, and simultaneously gets decked by Butler.
on ball		 A Dallas defensive halfback     goes up for    it but just tips the ball. It      keeps going    now end over end... right into     the waiting    arms of Franklin who is standing     by himself    in the end zone.  Franklin is shocked.   His teammates run INTO FRAME and mob him.  AL  Maybe not so lucky. Falco is down.
on shane		 He's on his back.
on annabelle		 She looks worried as trainers run out onto the field.
shane		Put your tits on my head...
on franklin		 He's holding for Pacifico on the extra point.  On the snap, Franklin bobbles the ball but manages to put it down.  Pacifico belts it through the uprights.  Scoreboard:    Dallas 24, Washington 21.  DISSOLVE TO:
on wilkinson		 He's on the field calling for a fair catch. He makes it.  AL  ... one minute twenty remaining, and even though Dallas didn't score, they sure ate up a lot of the clock.
shane		I can do it.
on redskins		 They're hurrying back to the line of scrimmage. Wilkinson stands over center.  On the snap, Wilkinson throws the ball out of bounds.  AL  Wilkinson throws it away, and with twelve seconds remaining, the Redskins will try a forty-eight yard field goal to tie it up. That's almost a chip shot for Pacifico.
evans		 Are you okay?
shane		Just make it a good snap.  And you'll do the rest, right?
on ball		 Evans leans over it.
shane		 Lou, are you alright?
pacifico		I'm sorry. They know where my family lives.
shane		What?!
evans		 Come on, Shane!
shane		Hut!
on shane		 He has totally caught the Cowboys by surprise. He sweeps around the right side.  The Dallas middle linebacker has recovered and is moving quickly to cut Shane off.  But Reese Evans comes out of nowhere and crushes the guy with a flying block.  Shane cuts downfield and heads for the end zone with nobody near him, except:  For the same safety from the first half who waits for him at the ten.  The safety smiles as he takes a bead on Shane.  Shane heads right for the guy. He puts his head down and smacks helmets with the safety. The guy goes down and Shane runs over him and into the end zone.  AL  Falco scores!
on annabelle		 She's jumping for joy.
ref		Clipping. Number 77 offense.
on shane		 He's walking slowly back to the line of scrimmage.
pacifico		I broke my arm.  Thank you. You saved my ass.
shane		 I have no idea.
lee		I'm so sorry, Shane. I'm sorry, everybody.
shane		No problem, Mickey.  Hell of a hit, Reese.
evans		That's the one I was looking for. I can retire in peace now.
shane		Right after this play. So besides me, who really wants the ball?
shane		 Blue left slot open 'A' right. Two Jet 'X' drive. On three. Gentlemen, it's been an honor sharing the field of battle.
on clock		 Three seconds are showing.
shane		Blue 58! Blue 58! Hut! Hut! Hut!
on murray		 He cuts on a deep post.
on shane		 He steps up and throws a clean bullet downfield. He roars in pain as he throws it.
on murray		 The pass is perfect. He pulls it in and beats his man to the end zone.  Redskins win.
on crowd		 It roars! "Hail to the Redskins" is deafening.  Todd, Rod and Bob are screaming.  O'Neil kisses Augustine.  Annabelle throws a punch into the air.  McGinty is all smiles.     Shane walks up to him and they shake hands.  Pilachowski and Banes hug.  Lee and Andre are hugging and crying.  Cochran is on his knees praying.     Reese Evans joins him.  Wilkinson hugs Jamal.  Clifford Franklin, hometown boy, throws himself into the stands where fans mob him.
brian's pov		 We HEAR NOTHING, but somehow the pure energy of the moment comes through.
on shane		 IN the SILENCE, he's walking in SLOW MOTION toward Annabelle. And everybody is smiling.
****Dialogues from script :Repo_Man.txt****

written by		 Alex Cox
transcript by		 Steve Farmer
county sheriff		Let me see your drivers license.
radio		Post ten-eighteen. Post ten-eighteen.
county sheriff		From out of town, hmm? What's you got in the trunk?
county sheriff		Give me the keys.  The motorcycle cop walks around to the back of the car and opens the trunk. The car has New Mexico license plates KBB-283. In every scene after this when the plates are visible, they will be 127-GBH.
county sheriff		AHHHHHH!  The motorcycle cop gets disintegrated, leaving behind a pair of flaming boots . Parnell watches from side mirror, where we see that the left side of his sunglasses have no lens.
kevin		Do Do Do De Do De Do De Do De Do Feeling Do De Da Do De Do De Do Feeling seven-up. I'm feeling seven-up. Feeling seven up. I'm feeling seven up. It's a crisp refreshing feeling crystal clear and light. America's drinking seven-up and it sure feels right. Feeling lucky seven.
otto		Kevin stop singing man.
kevin		Feeling seven eleven.
kevin		Hum. I wasn't singing guy.
otto		I'm standing right next to you and you're fucking  singing. Cut it out.
kevin		Jeeze. Why so tense guy?
kevin		Mister Humphries!
louie		Hey! He's talking to you!  Kevin chuckles  Otto grabs Kevin by the front of his shirt, steps around him, and pushes him into the stack of cans .
kevin		You gotta love getting fired from your job in a big way, Otto.
louie		Come on you  worm. Get out of here.
otto		How you doing dude? When did you get out of the slammer man?
debbi		What's the difference? ]
otto		Huh?
otto		okay  Debbi pulls back his shirt a little and begins kissing his stomach, then stops.
debbi		Otto. Otto.
otto		What?
debbi		Get me another beer.
kevin		Ow. Cool. Ow. Dammit. I'm supposed to be the host here.
kevin		Ow!
otto		Debbi honey. I got you a beer.
debbi		Just ignore him Duke he's nothing but a big baby.
duke		Turn the fucking light out.]  Otto leaves room just as Kevin arrives and looks in the door.
kevin		What are you doing? Nobody supposed to be up here. This is my parent's room.
otto		Don't want to talk about anything else. We don't want to know. We're just dedicated...to our favorite shows. Saturday night live, Monday night football, Dallas, Jeffersons, Gilligan's island, Flintstones. ]
bud		Hey kid!  Hey! Hey kid! Hey! Hey! Are you hard of hearing?
otto		What do you want?
bud		You want to make ten bucks?
otto		Fuck you, queer.
bud		Now waita minute wait a minute kid you got the wrong idea. Look my old lady is real sick and I got to get her to the hospital, okay?
otto		So what? Take her there.
bud		I can't. I can't leave her car in this bad area. Look I need some helpful soul to drive it for me, okay? She's pregnant. She's with twins. She could drop at any time. All right?
otto		Well, uh, how much are you going to give me?
bud		Fifteen bucks.
otto		No. Won't do it for less than twenty.
bud		Twenty-five. Follow me in my old lady's car. Its right here. okay?
otto		All right... Where's, uh, where's your old lady at?
bud		Never mind about that. Right now we need to get both of my cars out of this bad area, allright? Come on.
bud		Let's go.  Bud and Otto drive down freeway, Chevy Malibu swerves in front of them. It is moving right across the lanes but has the left blinker on.
marlene		Helping hand acceptance corporation, Marlene speaking.
repo victim		You know damn straight what I'm talking about. It's sitting right out side. It took me two weeks to get this money up so I can come and get it.
marlene		I don't think so sir you'll have to call back. I'll call you back O.K.?
oly		That ain't your car.  REPO VICTIM'S GIRL Hey don't let him lie to you like that. Unh?
marlene		Thanks Bud.
repo victim		Are you going to give me my car or do I got to go to your house and shove your dog's head down the toilet.
marlene		Helping hand acceptance corporation Marlene speaking.
plettschner		Take it easy sonny boy.
oly		Best goddamn  car on the lot.
repo victim		You damn right it is.
marlene		Will you, Will you hold please?
marlene		Helping hand acceptance corporation Marlene speaking.
repo victim		Say moma what's happening? You want to take a lift?
marlene		No thank you. L.A.P.D. I wanted to report a repo in Boro heights area.
plettschner		A Cadillac. Is he a pimp?
bud		Shut up Plettschner.
marlene		Bud what street was that car on?
bud		Honey I don't know, some alley uh. Hey kid!
otto		What?
bud		Hey what street was the Cutlass on?
otto		I don't know. What happened to your old lady?
marlene		They don't know I'll call you back.
marlene		Helping hand acceptance corporation Marlene speaking.
bud		My old lady? Oh shit ! I forgot all about her. Well she'll take the bus. She's a rock.
marlene		What kind of car? What kind of car?
bud		Hey come on in. Marlene! Marlene!
marlene		Can you hold?
oly		Got a name kid?
otto		Yeah! It's Otto.
oly		Otto! Otto parts? HAHAHA
marlene		You got a drivers license honey?  OLY ON THE PHONE Oh Yeah! Fuckin-a !
marlene		Let me see it.  OLY ON THE PHONE You want to know who told us where it was? Your goddamn  brother.
marlene		Are you really twenty-one?
otto		That's what it says doesn't it.
oly		Hey you want some help with that beer kid?
otto		You're all repo men.
oly		What if we are?
bud		You know kid, uhh, usually when someone pulls shit  lights out.
bud		But you know something?
bud		Right Lite?
lite		Got any messages for me baby?
marlene		Yeah. Here you go.
oly		Cracks me up.
lite		Somebody pissed  on the floor again?
oly		Maybe he's looking for a job? Huh budsky?
bud		Could be? What do you say kid were always on the look out for a few good men.
otto		Screw  that! Ain't going to be no repo man. No way!
miller		You find one in every car. You'll see.
radio		Come in Officer Labeef do you read me?
radio		Chuck will you stop fooling around?
sheriff		I've never seen the like of that.
radio		I have the stats on that car Officer Labeef.
radio		Ten-forty Baker
sheriff		What could have done that to him? Gasoline? Napalm?
agent rogersz		It happens sometimes. People just explode. Natural causes.
sheriff		What?
agent rogersz		Suspect presence on west coast confirmed. Do not notify police.
otto		Night watchman in Pomona.
kevin		Yep.
otto		Asbestos worker. City of industry.
kevin		Yep Yep!
otto		French fry maker Agoura. Ha Ha that's absurd.
kevin		Yeah? Well you think it's funny huh? There's fucking 
otto		You know Kevin, I had this wild fucking  dream the other night.
kevin		I bet.
otto		It was with you and me and we were working in this sleazy shithole  motel down in Miami, Florida. And we were bellhops and we were sixty-five years old. It was so real it was really real, realistic.
kevin		And then what, you woke up in a puddle ?
otto		Fuck you! 
kevin		Fucking  jerk.
kevin		Where you going asshole ?
otto		Away from you.  Otto gets off the Edge City #127 bus and comes home. Mom and Dad are watching TV
note		Edge City, also the name of the film's production company, is a recurring theme in Tom Wolfe's "Electric Kool-Ade Acid Test".
otto		Mother, father. Got anything to eat?
reverend larry		Occasionally we get a letter from a viewer that says now the only reason Reverend Larry comes on your television set is because he wants your money. And do you know what? They're right! I do want your money. Because god wants your money. So I want you to go out and mortgage that home and sell that car and send me your money. You don't need that car. 
otto mom		Put it on a plate son you'll enjoy it more.
otto		I couldn't enjoy it any more mom MMM MMM MMM This is swell.
otto		Dad? Hey Dad?
otto dad		What is it son?
otto		Do you remember that you once told me along time ago. Well not too long ago but ummm. That you told me that you'd give me a thousand dollars to go to Europe if I finish school. Well you know something? You were right. About finishing school that's ah that's what I'd like to do. But umm I want to know if I could have the money first. Like now. [You know I really love you Dad I've always loved you. You too mom. What do you say?
otto dad		I don't have it anymore.
otto		What?]
otto mom		You father gave all our extra money to the Reverend's telethon, Otto.
otto		Well what about me?
otto dad		You're on the honor roll of the chariots of fire. Same as us, Otto. It was a gift. From all of us jointly.
otto mom		We're sending bibles to El Salvador.
otto		So how much do I get paid, twenty-five buck a car.
bud		Paid? You don't get paid. Are you kidding, you work on commission, that's better than getting paid.
bud		Most cars you rip are worth two or three hundred dollars. Fifty thousand dollar Porsche  might make ya five grand.
bud		It helps if you dress like a detective, too. Detectives dress kind of square. People think this guy is a cop. They're going to think you're packing something. They don't fuck  with you so much.
otto		Are you?
bud		Am I what?
otto		Packin' something.
bud		Ha. Only an asshole  gets killed for a car. Guys who make it are the guys who get into their cars at anytime. Get in at three A.M. get up at four. That's why there ain't a repo man I know that don't take speed.
otto		Speed huh?
bud		I'll call you back!  Flippin general telephone.
bud		C'mon.  Otto and Bud in car in alley  
bud		Never broke into a car. Never hot-wired a car. Kid. I never broke into a trunk. I shall not cause harm to any vehicle nor the personal contents thereof. Nor through inaction let that vehicle or the personal contents thereof come to harm. That's what I call the repo code kid. Don't forget it etch it in your brain. Not many people got a code to live by anymore.
bud		Hey! Hey look at that. Look at those assholes  over there.
bud		Ordinary  people I hate 'em.
otto		Me too.
bud		What do you know? See an ordinary person spend his life avoiding tense situations. Repoman spends his life getting into tense situations. ! Lets go get a drink.
bud		Tense situations kid. Get into five or six of them a day and it don't mean shit  but that's when you got to watch your self. Here I'll handle it pal. Uh settle down.
bud		Have a nice day. Or night. Night, day, it doesn't mean shit .
duke		Wasn't that Otto?
debbi		Otto who?
duke		You gotta watch yourself.  Have a nice day . . . night.
bud		This is what I call phase 2 ace. If the dealer don't have the keys, you call the truck. And it is a heartbreak to be sitting waiting for the truck and the giblet comes out and drives it away. Once you've got this baby on the hooks, she's all ours.
pakman		Oh no you don't. I'm nipping this in the bud right now. You are not going to take this car. I know my rights. There is absolutely no way you're going to take it.
bud		Uh, are you miss Luann Pakman?
pakman		Obviously not. I'm Arthur Pakman. Luann is my daughter. Now you're going to have to take this matter up with her.
bud		Well don't think I haven't tried, sir, but she hasn't had the decency to call us in months. I mean, I've skipped trace this car all over town.
pakman		Well, uh, Luann is sick. Now the damn car isn't working anyway, and I know, I know that's why she hasn't paid you.
bud		Well, she could have called us? Look, all you've go to do is call my branch manager, I will abide with whatever he says.
bud		What, and lose my job? The law requires that I stay right here until you call my branch manager.
pakman		That's the law?
bud		That's the law.
pakman		I'll be right back.
bud		There's going to be some bad shit  coming down one of these days kid.
otto		Oh yeah? Where you going to be? On the moon?
bud		Ung Uh, I'm going to be right here heading north at a hundred and ten per.
otto		In this junker?  The Rodriguez brothers pull up along side of them in a red convertible with black fuzzy dice hanging from the rear view mirror. Latino music plays on the radio.
otto		Cool car.
bud		Uh Oh! The Rodriguez brothers.
otto		Motherfucker just flipped you off.
bud		Roll the window down.] Roll the window down.
lagarto		A donde vas, pendejo?
bud		A chingas tu esposa!
a brother		Hey Bud, hey Bud, who's your new girlfriend?
otto		Watch it mother fucker. 
lagarto		Hey fuck you pussy punk. 
napoleon		Want me to take them?
otto		Wo! Hey!
bud		God damn dipshit Rodriguez gypsy dildo punks. I'll get your ass!
otto		HAHAHA WOW! That was intense.
bud		Repo man's always intense. Come on let's go get a drink.
otto		Gee bud. You never told me it was going to be like this man. Cops and robbers. Hahahahah. Real live car chases. Hahahahah.
archie		Shit ! Debbi!
duke		If you say our names we'll have to kill all these people Archie.
archie		They all ran away.
debbi		Come on you douche bags. 
bud		Awful quiet in here. It's too quiet.
otto		So who are these Rodriguez boys.
bud		Rodriguez brothers. Lagarto and Napoleon. Two notorious delinquents currently responsible for at least thirty vehicles in the field.
otto		Scumbags
lite		They ain't scumbags. They car thieves just like use.
lite		There's Miss Magruder. You want to go for it?
otto		Good gag, you pull this one a lot?
lite		Only on the women. It never fails.
otto		Excuse me? Miss Magruder? I have something here for you.
otto		Ow! Ow! Ow! Motherfucker!  Ow! Ow! Ow! Christ! I'm blind man. Lite? Lite, where are you man?
bud		Ruthside Peason brokerage consultant. Fucking  millionaire six payments behind. I've never understood it.
otto		What's that?
bud		The fucking  millionaires. They never pay their bills. See you at the yard.
otto		Let me get this one.
bud		No. I'll handle this one. Mister Peason is carrying a permit for a pistol.
bud		Hey! Hey! Hey! Give me that.
otto		Don't underestimate me ace.
ruthside peason		And also, naturally, I'd like them to be right next to each other. In addition I'd like them to be as close to the window as possible so I can sit in my car and watch my things. So all you have to do is take your clothes out of here like this and put them into a machine over there like that.
ruthside peason		Oh my god ! Stop!
otto		Hey! Hey! You want a ride? Hey babe need a ride?
old lady		Pick it up! Look at you. You pick it up. You know yourself you were wrong.
otto		Well what were they doing out in the middle of the street?
old lady		They weren't in the middle of the street. That not the middle of the street that's the corner.
old lady		Go on you pick it up.
otto		What?
old lady		You pick it up.
otto		Haha, no way. You still want a ride or what?
old lady		No I don't.
otto		My name is Otto.
leila		Leila. Is this your car?
otto		Yeah it's one of them.
leila		Heh, one of them? You think you're pretty slick don't ya? I bet you're a used car salesman.
otto		I am not.
leila		You dress like one.
otto		I'm a repo man.
leila		What's that?
otto		Its a repossesser. I take back cars from dildos  who don't pay their bills. Cool huh?
leila		No.
otto		What are you doing?
leila		Those men in the car next to us don't look at them. Don't look at them! If they see me they'll kill me.
otto		Really why?
otto		Ow! What the hell are you doing?
otto		What's going on?
leila		Take a look at this.
otto		What's this? It looks like sausage.
leila		It isn't sausage Otto. That's a picture of four dead aliens.
otto		HAHAHAH
leila		Laugh away fuckface  that picture is going to be on the cover of ever major newspaper in two days time.
otto		How do you know that?
leila		Part of a secret network. A scientist who is also in our secret sect smuggled the corpses off of this air force base. Now he's got them in the truck of his car. It's a Chevy Malibu. We've got to find him.
otto		What are you going to do with them, put them on Johnny Carson?
leila		Yes! We're going to have a press conference and tell the world.
radio		Ehw. What's that? I don't know dear. But it is alive. It seems friendly though. Aw look it's curled up. How cute oh no. Maybe we can take it home it doesn't seem to have any. Oh yes let's. But no! No matter how appealing do not let strange creature in you house. We all know strange creatures are on the increase. Many of them do seem furry and adorable, but beware we don't know from whence they came. Be safe. Be safe. Report strange incidences today. 
otto		United fruitcake outlet.
leila		My door doesn't open.
leila		Thanks for the ride.
otto		Sure Ummm I don't know. what do you think? Ah want to go out with me again sometime?
leila		I don't know. I'm going to be kind of busy with work, the Malibu and everything.
otto		Hey great. Terrific. Here's your shit .
leila		What's your problem? I mean girls might like you if you lightened up a little bit.
otto		Fuck . Girls pay to go out with me. All right?
leila		You wanna get back in the car?
otto		What, here?
leila		Yeah.
oly		Twenty thousand dollars for a Chevy Malibu?
oly		Who's double X finance?
marlene		Store front operation, but the money is in escrow.
marlene		Want me to notify the boys?
oly		Uh, naw. They're always bitching  about their case load. I think I'll go out for a while.
marlene		Why? We out of beer?
oly		Somebody has to work around here. Keep making me money kid.
otto		Fuck  you.
lite		Man we've been looking for this little red devil for a long time. Just act natural. Nobody knows if its your car or somebody elses car.
lite		Now you work with that. You give it a try. All right?
lite		Let me give you a hand we dont have a whole year to find it boy.
otto		Got it.
lite		Lets get out of here. Put your seat belt on.
lite		Put your seat belt on boy! I don't ride with anybody unless they wear their seatbelt. It's one of my rules.
lite		Put that damn gun down boy. It ain't no toy.
lite		I walk into someone's place of work. They shit  scared. They know I'm not a cop. They think I've come to kill 'em and I would. I'd kill anybody who crosses me. You know what I mean?
lite		Do you like music?
otto		Sure.
lite		In that case you're going love this.
lite		I was into these dudes before anybody. Partied with them all the time. Asked me to be their manager. I called bullshit  on that. Managing a pop group hey that ain't no job for no man.
lite		You read that book I gave you?
otto		What book?
lite		Dioretix. Science of matter over mind.
otto		Unh uhg
lite		You'd better read it and quick. That book will change your life. Found it in a Maseratti in Beverly hills.
miller		A lot of people don't realize what's really going on. They view life as a bunch of unconnected incidences and things. They don't realize that there's this like lattice of coincidence that lays on top of everything. I'll Give you an example, show you what I mean. Suppose you thinking about a plate of shrimp. Suddenly somebody will say like plate or shrimp or plate of shrimp out of the blue no explanation. No point in looking for one either. It's all part of a cosmic unconsciousness.
otto		You eat a lot of acid Miller, back in the hippie days?
miller		I'll give you another instance. You know the way everybody's into weirdness right now. Books in all the supermarkets about Bermuda triangles, UFO's, how the Mayans invented television. That kind of thing.
otto		I don't read them books.
miller		Well the way I see it it's exactly the same. There ain't no difference between a flying saucer and a time machine. People get so hung up on specifics. They miss out on seeing the whole thing. Take South America for example. In South America thousands of people go missing every year. Nobody knows where they go. They just like disappear. But if you think about it for a minute, you realize something. There had to be a time when there was no people. Right?
otto		Yeah. I guess.
miller		Well where did all these people come from? hmmm? I'll tell you where. The future. Where did all these people disappear to? hmmm?
otto		The past?
miller		That's right and how did they get there?
otto		How the fuck  do I know?
miller		Flying saucers. Which are really? Yeah you got it. Time machines. I think a lot about this kind of stuff. I do my best thinking on the bus. That how come I don't drive, see?
otto		You don't even know how to drive.
miller		I don't want to know how. I don't want to learn. See? The more you drive, the less intelligent you are.
bud		You know I think I saw one of those things once. One of those UFOs. I mean it was really it was kind of kind of scary. I saw all these colored lights and, uh, sounds. I mean sounds and lights like I never heard before. I mean it was really weird.
otto		Bud.
bud		Yeah?
otto		Do you think all repo men follow the code?
bud		Of course. Well I mean you see a lot of fucked .
bud		I'm offering a thousands dollars for his Falcon. You know what that is Napoleon? It's a bribe.
napoleon		Who the hell is this? Napoleon? Who the fuck  are you calling?
bud		It's a grand if you show me where his car is Napoleon.
bud		Hello? Prick .
napoleon		Sixty-four Chevy Malibu. Twenty grand.
bud		Waiting!
napoleon		We could buy ten of them for that, Marlene.
marlene		Think you can find it now?
napoleon		Now how come this junk is worth so much? What's in it? Drugs?
lagarto		Los Hermanos Rodriguez don't approve of drugs.
marlene		Neither do I, but it's my birthday.
bud		Don't care how long it takes, dildos . Repo man's got all night every night.
bud		twenty thousand dollars.
otto		Hey Leila! All right, um, this is Otto. The guy who gave you a ride and stuff. I heard something about that car.
leila		Otto. Otto stop. You said you had something to tell me.
leila		Otto? Otto!
otto		Huh?
leila		What did you want to tell me?
otto		Oh! Take off your clothes.
leila		I'm at work, Otto!
otto		Oh yeah? Me too.
leila		Your work is different than mine.
otto		Says who?
leila		What are you doing.? Don't do that.
otto		Heh, I guess that means no.]
deadra		Leila? We have a cell meeting in two minutes time.
leila		Thanks Deadra. I'll be right there.
bud		See that motherfucker .
lite		No way you can do that on twenty grand man.
bud		The hell I can as long as you have good credit and my credit is spotless.
lite		If I find the Malibu, you won't see me for dust, I'm going to move to Mendecino County, raise me a bumper crop of tomato plants.
bud		Credit is a sacred trust. It's what our free society is founded on. You think they give a damn about their bills in Russia? I said do you think they give a damn about their bills in Russia?
otto		They don't pay bills in Russia. It's all free.
bud		All free? Free my ass, what are you a fucking  commie? Huh?
otto		No I ain't no commie.
bud		Well you'd better not be I don't want any commies in my car. No Christians either.
kevin		I'll deal with you later. I've got a customer to attend to. You too.
kevin		Hi! I'm Kevin. Vacuum sir?
kevin		Need a vacuum sir?
kevin		You don't want to eat from a machine. Look, there's a nice Del Taco across the street. They've got enchurritos and everything.
kevin		Lorna Doones? I love Lorna Doones.
kevin		Oh hey! You want me to check the trunk? Scuze me.
kevin		Hi! I'm Kevin!
napoleon		Hey buddy! How you doing? Huh? Hey don't you remember me? I was here yesterday. Heh. Listen I think I left a book of matches over in your office over there. You want to go and check for me huh?
kevin		Sure thing.
napoleon		Hey thanks a lot buddy.
kevin		Any thing for you babes.
napoleon		All right, you're beautiful. I love you.
kevin		I'll be right back.  Lagarto gets in the Malibu and both cars drive off. Kevin returns from inside and sees both cars gone. Two other attendants sit at a table and also look; the attendant on the right is director Alex Cox.
kevin		What??  Shot of car driving down freeway, passed by several motorcycles.
otto		It's really very simple Mrs. Parks. You don't want me to take your car and I don't want to take your car. Now I said to the boss I said ah Look! I do not want to repossess this ladys car.
otto		Yeah, Yes I understand. My job is really on the line over this one. I could lose it right away.
otto		That's terrific. Really terrific.  Mrs. Park's son and his fellow band members enter  MRS. PARKS Oh how was the rehearsal son?  MRS. PARKS' SON It was O.K. Who's this?  MRS. PARKS Oh this is Mr. Otto. He's from the finance company. He's been telling me that he isn't going to take the car this time, even though he could.
otto		Well, uh, gotta get going here.  Otto fumbles nervously with his briefcase trying to close it.
otto		The tea?
otto		Yeah, it was terrific.
otto		Thank you
otto		Uh excuse me.
otto		Hey it's cool. It's cool. I like music too man, hey
plettschner		Some people aren't cut out to be repo men. Why don't you smarten up kid?
otto		Fuck  you Plettschner! OWW! OWW!
plettschner		Don't you say fuck  you to me. Don't you know who I am?
otto		Yeah you're Plettschner.
plettschner		You're fucking . You little scum bag! I worked five years in a slaughter house and ten years as a prison guard in Attica.
otto		So what?
plettschner		So what? So never say fuck  you to me. Because you haven't earn the rights yet.
lite		Hey kid I need a contract driver.
plettschner		See what I mean punk?
otto		Fuck  you!
plettschner		Fuck you!  You little scumbag.
lite		Shut up, Phlettschner.
plettschner		Don't you ever tell me to shut up.
napoleon		Shit  hot I think that shit in the trunk is going to melt. I think we better take a look, all right?
lagarto		Go get us two sodas.
napoleon		All right, as soon as I check the trunk.
lagarto		We're just the mules, comprende? ...
marlene		Helping hand.
lagarto		Marlene! We've found the car.
duke		Come on you guys!
duke		Get the lead out.
debbi		Stop pushing Duke.
duke		Aw be cool dude we got more.
archie		Come on. Come on. da-dee-dee-dee-dah-dah dee-dee... 
lagarto		Yeah well that's not the only thing Marlene. This car is hot.
marlene		What do you mean? Stolen?
lagarto		No. No I mean it's hot really hot.
marlene		Hot?
lagarto		Yeah, we're sweating like pigs man.
marlene		I got the papers. Where is the car from?
lagarto		It's from someplace. Ah Roswell, New Mexico
lite		Me fight in a war man? Fuck  no way! Nobody's got to do that shit. Not in this country. A new I.D. don't cost no more than a pink slip. You know what I mean?
lite		Something wrong?
otto		You know Marlene? Man she's pretty hot.
lite		Otto my man. I jumped on that action from day one. I found out where she was coming from.
otto		See ya back at the yard.
lite		Have fun.
otto		Oh shit . Lite! . Lite! Lite! Lite! Lite! Open the door. There's a maniac in there. What are you doing? Open the door man! What are you doing? What are you doing? Open the door. Lite!
lite		You're still on the job white boy. Get in the car.
otto		Open the door man, open the  door. Open the door Lite.
lite		Get in the car.
otto		Jesus Christ. 
otto		You're crazy Lite. I mean you can't just shoot into peoples houses. I mean maybe you shot the guy.
lite		So what if I did?
otto		Well I don't know I mean that's pretty severe.
otto		Jesus Christ. 
lite		Hey! Blanks get the job done too.
otto		You repo men, you guys are all out to fuckin  lunch. Let's get out of here.
leila		Hello. Is it you? This is Leila. Are you using a scrambler?
leila		 Look out!
agent		Happy face! You want a ride?  In Agent Rogersz van  An agent types while eating potato chips. The camera pans across the van to Agents Rogersz, who is watching a monitor which shows Leila being questioned
leila		What do you want from me?
agent		We ask the questions.
leila		You're not going to torture me are you?
leila		Torture you? What for?
leila		To find out what I know. I'd torture someone in a second if it was up to me.
agent		Huh? Why are you looking for the Malibu?
leila		Because of the trunk. The aliens inside.
agent		Illegal aliens?
leila		No, Silly, Extraterrestrials.
agent		Ahhh, heh. Did you ever think about joining the CIA?
leila		Um. I going to have to ask my boyfriend.
agent		Boyfriend??  Rogersz computer screen prints up the following information
subject		Otto Maddox
gender		male
race		Caucasian
age		21
correction		18
everybody		Jingle bells. Jingle bells. Jingle all the way. Oh what fun
otto		What's going on?
marlene		Oh. The usual.
plettschner		Marlene! How you doing baby?
oly		Jesus  who done that to yeah son?
otto		Who done what?
plettschner		Who done what he says. You want to talk about guts. What did you do to your face kid?
otto		Oh some dude it doesn't matter.
lite		Oh yes it does.
marlene		Why don't you do something Plettschner? Aren't you a cop or something?
plettschner		Hey Marlene. I'm on my coffee break.
bud		Repo man don't go running to the man Marlene. A repo man goes at it alone.
lite		Yes sirree bob.
marlene		Just like John Wayne.
oly		Damn right just like John Wayne what's wrong about that?
plettschner		Greatest American that ever lived.
miller		John Wayne was a fag .
bud		What did you say man?
plettschner		Whaa?
oly		What?
everyone		The hell he was.
miller		He was too you boys. I installed two way mirrors in his pad in Brentwood. And he'd come to the door in a dress.
plettschner		Ah, you're fucking  nuts.
oly		That doesn't mean he was a homo . I know I do.
bud		They do?
plettschner		Yeah.
oly		Don't you?
plettschner		Damn straight I do.
lite		Fuck .
otto		Kiss off you asshole .
otto		Ow you bastards !
bud		Hey take it easy. Take it easy. The guys head is hurt.
oly		This is too personal sonny. The thing is a repo man got beat up in the line of duty. Now it doesn't matter that that man was you. What really matters is that the guy that did it has got to pay the price. Now stop being selfish and tell us his name.
lite		Come on.
otto		Ahh Oww You bastard .
otto		All right! All right! All right! All right! O.K. his name was...
oly		Mr. Humphries?  MR. HUMPHRIES Yes? Yes I'm Mr. Humphries. What do you want? Ungghhh...
marlene		Helping hand acceptance corporation. Marlene speaking.
leila		Hello, is Otto there?
marlene		It's for you. A girl.
otto		Yeah.
leila		Hi Otto? It's Leila.
otto		Leila who?
otto		I can't believe I used to like these guys.
agent rogersz		Listen to me! For the sake of this and future generations you must tell us everything you know.
otto		Yeah. Sure. I need another drink.
leila		Otto, these aliens aren't on ice or anything. They could be starting to decay. We've got to find them before they turn into mush.
duke		Well! Well! Well! If it ain't the repo man.
archie		You look like shit .
otto		Duke. Debbi. Archie. I'd like you to meet Leila and her weird friend.
duke		How you doing, asshole ?
archie		How come you don't hang out with your friends no more?
duke		Want some toot dude?
duke		I really love ya man. You're my best friend. Because you always fucking came to see me while I was in Juvie.
otto		I'm busy man. I told ya I was working.
debbi		Look a metal hand.
archie		Cool!
debbi		Can we feel it?
archie		Oh Chante.]
duke		Fuck  this let's go do some crimes.
leila		Charming friends you got there Otto.
otto		Thanks, I made'um myself.  Debbi, Archie and Duke leave to find J. Frank Parnell breaking into the Malibu
debbi		Hey what  you doing with our car?
archie		Yeah!
archie		Not any more. We ate 'em.
duke		Shut up Archie.
archie		You shut up.
duke		You're still here?
archie		Yeah four eyes.
duke		What do you mean?
debbi		Kill him Duke!  J. FRANK PARNELL You know what? I think you're afraid to find out.
debbi		Kill him.
archie		Come on Duke you putty butt, kill him.
duke		I aint afraid of nothing see.  J. FRANK PARNELL It's all right I don't blame you for being afraid.
duke		I said I ain't afraid of nothing. I kill people like you.
archie		Oh shut up. Duh. He's going to open it. HAHAHA
duke		Ah.
archie		Come on Duke.
duke		This thing is hot.
archie		AWWW, heh heh heh
debbie		Well we don't have all night.
debbi		Close it Duke! No! No!
archie		Aw. Dukie Wookie hurt his wittle hand.
duke		Fuck  you Archie! Just for that your not in the gang any more.
archie		I'm taking over now.
debbi		Oh leave it off.
archie		King Archie the invincible.
debbie		Shut up Archie.
archie		Hey Debbi! Watch this.
debbie		Come on duke let's go do those crimes.
duke		Yeah. Yeah. Let's go get Sushi and, and not pay.
napoleon		Hey! Yo! Hey buddy!
napoleon		Special deputies pull over. Special deputies pull over. Hey!
bud		Look at these people man there's one person in each car. City wants up to car pool but nobody gives a shit.
miller		People car pool, we'd be out of work.
lite		AWW bullshit!
oly		How come that pig's got a wooden leg? Well said the farmer said about three months ago I was out there walking the pig.
miller		Look at that car.]
lite		Hey Budsky. There's your Girlfriend.
bud		Aww! Those Rodriguez brothers Humm? O.K., boys, we've got the whole team here tonight lets settle these motherfucker's  hash for good.
lite		Let's do it.
lagarto		Meda Bud. Shit!]
napoleon		Don't lose him man.
plettschner		Hey! Hey! Take it easy. Stop this  car. Hey come on. Come on.
napoleon		Come on! Come on! What are you going to do with that bat? What? Huh? What?
lagarto		Hey! Hey! Hey!
lagarto		You bad bud. This is going to cost you plenty.
bud		What do you mean its going to cost me plenty?
lagarto		How's your neck Napoleon?
napoleon		Oh my neck? Yeah! Oh!  my neck is killing me man. I think I got whiplash.
lagarto		Aside from whiplash, this isn't a repo car.
lagarto		We paid it off. You see, uh this is our favorite car.
napoleon		Yeah that's right. You got insurance ?
bud		Come on . Whose side are you on ? Let me go .
bud		This is bullshit  Oly.
oly		Yeah Yeah that's what I said when the marshal woke me up at 4 o'clock this morning . Unfortunately it isn't bullshit , it's a summons.
bud		You should have refused to accept it.
oly		Have you read it? The goddamn  own.
bud		The Rodriguez brothers. But. Ha! You believe the fucking  Rodriguez brothers? They're a couple of scumbags Oly. You know that?
oly		I know that bud. But we've got to sit down and get our stories straight.
bud		Bullshit  you're taking their word against mine.
oly		I was there remember? Why don't you go home? Take the rest of the week off.
bud		Take the rest of the? I can't take the rest of the...OW yeah! I Un Huh I get it. Take the flippin rest of the week off budsky. So you can get the flippin twenty thousand dollars for the Malibu.
oly		Make it a fucking  month.
bud		Yeah? Well fuck  you.
oly		On second though Budsky. Don't bother coming back at all.
bud		Great! I'll come back and pick up my stuff later when the fucking  place don't stink so bad.
plettschner		Ha! Ha! Ha!
oly		Shut up!
bud		. Makes you wonder how much they owe. Most of them are on the run. Don't even use their fucking  owe and making them pay.
otto		Jesus Christ  bud. They're winos, they don't have any money. You think they'd be bums if they did?
bud		You want out? Do ya?
otto		No!
bud		What's a matter with you? Don't you like your job anymore? Not too happy in your job? I mean I feel like were not communicating any more. When we first started out I though I could teach you something share something with you for Christ's sake. Answer me!
agent		 I'm picking up the dead. I'm putting my hands around this dead body. I'm, I'm carrying his limp torso to the truck. And he feels like like he has only been dead a little while but...
otto		ott, ott...
otto		re, re, re..
otto		No.
otto		Nuh-uh
otto		Sir. I represent the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation.
otto		Lobotomy? Isn't that for loonies?  J. FRANK PARNELL Not at all. A friend of mine had one. Designer of the neutron bomb. Ever hear of the neutron bomb? Destroys people. Leaves buildings standing. It fits in a suit case. It's so small no one knows it's there until blammo. Eyes melt skin explodes everybody dead. It's so immoral working on the thing can drive you mad. That's what happened to this friend of mine. So he had a lobotomy. Now he's well again.
otto		What kind of car does your... does your friend drive?
otto		And you do the same type of work?
otto		This is really a nice old car. Why don't you let me drive?
otto		Well I don't know. I mean...uh! Don't you feel funny.?
oly		By the way kid, sign this.
otto		What is this?
oly		Equity turnover. Standard practice. Protects you in case we get sued. . . Don't read the damn thing, kid, just sign it.
oly		He signed it over to me. But he didnt realize-
lite		Hey Oly. You're wife's hanging all over Otto.
oly		Yeah. Like flies on shit .
otto		Um. Have you see uh bud anywhere?
tv		...another wonderful Christian opportunity. The Reverend Larry...
bud		Hey there hero. Get the money yet?
otto		Not yet. Oly's going to get it for me though. I just signed the papers.
bud		Whu, what do you mean, what papers?
otto		Beats me, just some, uh, contract or something.
bud		Didn't you read it?
otto		Well, no, just, uh, standard practice, uh, contract...
bud		Melonfarmer Oly! ...oooh, shoot.
otto		What, is that not a happening deal?
bud		Hey ace. Wait up.
otto		So you want to talk about it?
bud		Talk about what kid?
otto		Why you're so damn mad at me?
bud		I'm not mad at you.  damn. I'm not. I'm not mad at you.
otto		All right O.K.
debbie		What?
duke		I've been thinking. Now that we've got some money and Archie's gone, don't you think it's time we we settle down? Get a little house. I want you to have my baby.
debbie		Why?
duke		Well I don't know. Every body does it. And it just seems like the thing to do and...
debbi		Asshole.]
duke		Let's go do the job.
otto		Duke! Debbie! What what are you guys doing here?
duke		What's it look like ace?
debbie		Up against the wall.
duke		I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill him. I'm going to kill everybody. ha-ha-ha
louie		Drop it motherfucker .
bud		Oww shit .  Duke shoots Louie. Louie goes down but manages to shoot Duke, but then is out of bullets. Duke walks over to Louie to finish the job, but the counterman pulls out a shotgun and shoots Duke. Debbie shoots the counterman. Now only Debbie and Otto are left standing.
otto		Debbie Ah. Ah Do You, uh, do you think it's too late uh for us to get romantically involved?
debbie		I think a little.
otto		Wait! Wait! Stick with me. I'll make you a repo wife.
debbi		Bollocks. Here. 
duke		Otto?
otto		Yeah I'm here man.
duke		The lights are growing dim. I know a life of crime led me to this sorry fate. And yet I I blame society. Society made me what I am.
otto		That's bullshit . You're a white suburban punk, just like me.
duke		But it still hurts.
otto		You're going to be all right man
otto		Maybe not.
agent		Yep he's dead all right.
agent		No doubt about it.
agent		He's a goner.
agent		Man.
agent rogersz		Don't touch the body, don't touch the body.
agent		Sorry.
agent		Telephone call for you agent.
agent rogersz		Don't bother me now.
agent		But Agent Rogersz, it's the Gipper.
agent		Look.
agent		Booth's setting him on fire
otto's dad		Haven't seen you in a while, Son.
tv		No escape...
otto's mom		Some men were just here looking for you, Otto.
tv		No salvation from the blistering files of eternal damnation. For in these days there shall be hell in time, there shall be war and more war, and earthquakes in diverse places...
otto		What kind of men?
otto's mom		Very nice young men. They wore sunglasses.
otto		Well, what did you tell them? Did you tell them I was sick?
otto's dad		We told them the truth, son. Gave them your address at work.
tv		Money shall run out and the people will line up at the banks and there won't be anything . . . these prophecies are in your bible. The same one that you have in your home. Now I want you to get up off of your sofa and put that beer down and go wherever it is in your house pick up that book and turn with me...
agent		Where's the car baby? That Chevy Malibu baby. Where's the car?
plettschner		Otto!
otto		Jeeze.
plettschner		You got to stay out of this.
otto		Why?
plettschner		It's none of your business. You want to be a hero? Or would you rather be a chicken man?
otto		What?
plettschner		A chicken man. Did you ever see a farmer's wife? Huh?
otto		Let go of me!
agent 1		The Malibu.
agent 2		Yeah?
marlene		Let's go
otto		No way Marlene.
otto		My car's gone and we're going to get to the bottom of this.
marlene		Like hell we are.
agent 2		Not in my face.
plettschner		Hold it Marlene. Freeze!
agent 2		My Face!
marlene		Over my dead body.
plettschner		That's how it's going to have to be.
marlene		Come and get me. Come on.
plettschner		I've been wanting to do that one for a long time honey.
marlene		Come on. Come on. Come on if you think your man enough.
otto		Hey Fletch. Coffee break.  Otto throws a pot of coffee into Plettschner's face. Marlene steps through door. Otto steps outside and is immediately captured by agents.
agent rogersz		Good evening Otto. This is agent Rogersz. I'm going to ask you a few questions. And since time is short and you may lie, I'm going to have to torture you. But I want you to know it isn't personal.
otto		Look Ah this isn't really necessary. I'll tell you anything you want to know.
agent rogersz		Good! Where is the Malibu?
otto		I don't know. Somebody ripped it from the yard.
leila		I don't think he knows.
agent rogersz		Increase the voltage.
leila		But what if he's innocent?
agent rogersz		No one is innocent. Proceed.
agent rogersz		Ah yes! Look at them. High heels, hair nets, those ridiculous trench coats. They're pathetic.
agent 1		But agent Rogersz, they're getting away.
agent rogersz		That's all part of the plan.
marlene		Otto, Otto pull your self together.
otto		Marlene? What's going on?
marlene		We're going to the hospital.
old lady		Hey, I know you. You're the one that run into my trash.
otto		Shh!
old lady		Shhh to you too.
lagarto		Out of order. Take the stairs.  Otto and Marlene exit elevator wearing clothes taken from health professionals. Otto has a smiley face button on his right collar.
note		Dr. Benway and Mr. Lee are both characters from "The Naked Lunch"
kevin		Otto?  Cut back to ER waiting room where nurse is talking to patient who has just filled out a form.
nurse 1		Let me see that. All wrong do it over.
old lady		They're going through it all the and they won't pick it up.
nurse 2		Oh well isn't that a shame.
old lady		Oh tell you it comes to something when they expect you to pick it up.
otto		How are you doing man?
marlene		Ask him about the Malibu.
otto		Look about the other night. I'm sorry I split. I know I should have stayed with you but ah it's like when I was a kid you know I I had this set of big wheels you know.
marlene		Otto!  Otto, Marlene and the Rodriguez brothers get chased by the agents down the stairs.
bud		Shit 
reverend larry		Praise the lord.  Otto, Marlene and Rodriguez brother drive off and the agents chase them through the parking garage.
napoleon		Go. Go. Go.
napoleon		Come on. Let's go.
otto		Dude slow down.
napoleon		All right don't shoot come on all right all right
agents		Chicken shits . braak-braak-braak
agent rogersz		Where's the Malibu?
otto		Don't even ask because I don't know. I mean I don't have it Marlene doesn't have it you and your crazy friends don't have it. So that only leaves...
agent		Where is he.
agent		Where the fuck  is he.
napoleon		Later!
marlene		Bye, Bye.
otto		That's some weird fucking shit  Eh Bud? What's going on man?
bud		Shit !
otto		Bud listen to me. You're sitting in a car worth twenty thousand dollars. Look look we we turn it in we take the money and split it sixty forty. You and me.
****Dialogues from script :Rescuers_Down_Under.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Reservoir_Dogs.txt****

joe		 Toby...who the fuck is Toby? Toby...Toby...think...think... think...
joe		Oh fuck, Toby's that little china girl.
joe		I found this old address book in a jacket I ain't worn in a coon's age.  Toby what?  What the fuck was her last name?
joe		Chew?  Toby Chew?  No.
joe		Wong?
joe		Not wrong, dumb ass, Wong!  You know, like the Chinese name?
joe		What the fuck do you think you're doin?  Give me my book back!
joe		Whaddaya mean, give it to me when we leave, give it back now.
joe		What do you care?
joe		Give me my book.
joe		I'm gonna do whatever I wanna do with it.
joe		No, she did it.  She killed the cheatin wife, too.
waitress		Can I get anybody more coffee.
joe		No, we're gonna be hittin it. I'll take care of the check.
waitress		Here ya go.  Please pay at the register, if you wouldn't mind.
joe		Sure thing.
waitress		You guys have a wonderful day.
joe		I'll take care of this, you guys leave the tip.  And when I come back, I want my book back.
joe		Blonde, shoot this piece of shit, will ya?
joe		Okay ramblers, let's get to rambling.  Wait a minute, who didn't throw in?
joe		 Why?
joe		 You don't tip?  Why?
joe		 You don't believe in it?
joe		 Cough up the buck, ya cheap bastard, I paid for your goddamn breakfast.
joe		Whatever.  Just throw in your dollar, and let's move.  See what I'm dealing with here. Infants.  I'm fuckin dealin with infants.
joe		 Sid, Sid, Sid...Stop, you're embarrassing me.  I don't need to be told what I already know.  When you have bad months, you do what every business man in the worlds does, I don't care if he's Donald Trump or Irving the tailor. Ya ride it out.
joe		Come in.
teddy		Vic Vega's outside.
joe		Tell him to come in.
joe		 Good enough, bye.
joe		How's freedom kid, pretty fuckin good, ain't it?
vic		It's a change.
joe		Ain't that a sad truth.  Remy Martin?
vic		Sure.
joe		Take a seat.
joe		 Who's your parole officer?
vic		A guy named Koons.  Craig Koons.
joe		How is he?
vic		Fuckin asshole, won't let me leave the halfway house.
joe		Never ceases to amaze me.  Fuckin jungle bunny goes out there, slits some old woman's throat for twenty-five cents.  Fuckin nigger gets Doris Day as a parole officer.  But a good fella like you gets stuck with a ball-bustin prick.
vic		I just want you to know, Joe, how much I appreciate your care packages on the inside.
joe		What the hell did you expect me to do?  Just forget about you?
vic		I just wanted you to know, they meant a lot.
joe		It's the least I could do Vic.  I wish I coulda done more.  Vic. Toothpick Vic.  Tell me a story?  What're your plans?
vic		Well, what I wanna do is go back to work.  But I got this Koons prick deep up my ass.  He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job. My plans have always been to be part of the team again.
joe		Come in.
eddie		 I see ya sittin here, but I don't believe it.
eddie		How ya doin, Toothpick?
vic		Fine, now.
eddie		I'm sorry man, I shoulda picked you up personally at the pen. This whole week's just been crazy. I've had my head up my ass the entire time.
vic		Funny you should mention it. That's what your father and I been talkin about.
eddie		That I should've picked you up?
vic		No.  That your head's been up your ass.  I walk through the door and Joe says "Vic, you're back, thank god.  Finally somebody who knows what the fuck he's doing.  Vic, Vic, Vic, Eddie, my son, is a fuck up."  And I say "Well, Joe, I coulda told you that."  "I'm ruined!  He's ruining me!  My son, I love him, but he's taking my business and flushing it down the fuckin toilet!"  I'm not tellin tales out of school.  You tell 'im Joe. Tell 'im yourself.
joe		Eddie, I hate like hell for you to hear it this way.  But when Vic asked me how's business, well, you don't lie to a man who's just done four years in the slammer for ya.
eddie		Oh really, is that a fact?
joe		 Okay, okay, enough, enough! Playtime's over!  You wanna roll around on the floor, do it in Eddie's office, not mine!
eddie		Daddy, did ya see that?
joe		What?
eddie		Guy got me on the ground, tried to fuck me.
vic		You fuckin wish.
eddie		You tried to fuck me in my father's office, you sick bastard. Look, Vic, whatever you wanna do in the privacy of your own home, go do it.  But don't try to fuck me.  I don't think of you that way.  I mean, I like you a lot--
vic		Eddie, if I was a pirate, I wouldn't throw you to the crew.
eddie		No, you'd keep me for yourself. Four years fuckin punks in the ass made you appreciate prime rib when you get it.
vic		I might break you, Nice Guy, but I'd make you my dog's bitch. You'd be suckin the dick and going down on a mangy T-bone hound.
eddie		Now ain't that a sad sight, daddy, walks into jail a white man, walks out talkin like a nigger.  It's all that black semen been shootin up his butt.  It's backed up into his brain and comes out of his mouth.
joe		Are you two finished?  We were talkin about some serious shit when you came in Eddie.  We got a big problem we're tryin to solve. Now Eddie, would you like to sit down and help us solve it, or do you two wanna piss fart around?
joe		Now Vic was tellin me, he's got a parole problem.
eddie		Really?  Who's your P.O.?
vic		Craig Koons.
eddie		Koons?  Oh shit, I hear he's a motherfucker.
vic		He is a motherfucker.  He won't let me leave the halfway house till I get some piece of shit job.
eddie		You're coming back to work for us, right?
vic		I wanna.  But I gotta show this asshole I got an honest-to- goodness job before he'll let me move out on my own.  I can't work for you guys and be worried about gettin back before ten o'clock curfew.
joe		 We can work this out, can't we?
eddie		This isn't all that bad.  We can give you a lot of legitimate jobs. Put you on the rotation at Long Beach as a dock worker.
vic		I don't wanna lift crates.
eddie		You don't hafta lift shit.  You don't really work there.  But as far as the records are concerned, you do.  I call up Matthews, the foreman, tell him he's got a new guy.  You're on the schedule.  You got a timecard, it's clocked in and out for you everyday, and you get a pay check at the end of the week.  And ya know dock workers don't do too bad.  So you can move into a halfway decent place without Koons thinkin "what the fuck."  And if Koons ever wants to make a surprise visit, you're gone that day.  That day we sent you to Tustin.  We gotta bunch of shit you needed to unload there. You're at the Taft airstrip pickin up a bunch of shit and bringing it back.  Part of your jab is goin different places - and we got places all over the place.
joe		 Vic was worried.
eddie		Me and you'll drive down to Long Beach tomorrow.  I'll introduce you to Matthews, tell him what's going on.
vic		That's great, guy, thanks a bunch.  When do you think you'll need me for real work?
joe		Well, it's kinda a strange time right now.  Things are kinda--
eddie		--Nuts.  We got a big meeting in Vegas coming up.  And we're kinda just gettin ready for that right now.
joe		Let Nice Guy set you up at Long Beach.  Give ya some cash, get that Koons fuck off your back, and we'll be talking to ya.
eddie		Daddy, I got an idea.  Now just hear it out.  I know you don't like to use any of the boys on these jobs, but technically, Vic ain't one of the boys.  He's been gone for four years.  He ain't on no one's list.  Ya know he can handle himself, ya know you can trust him.
joe		How would you feel about pullin a heist with about five other guys?
vic		What's the exposure like?
joe		Two minutes, tops.  It's a tough two minutes.  It's a hold up, daylight, during business hours, dealing with a crowd.  But you have the fellas to deal with the crowd.  It's a jewelry store. They're getting a big shipment of South African diamonds on a certain day.  They're like a way station.  It's gonna get picked up the next day and sent to Hamburg. When you walk through the door, you'll know right where to go for the rich stones. The fellas are good, me and Nice Guy picked em.  Nobody knows anybody else.  Nobody's connected. I don't use connected guys for this shit.
vic		What's the cut?
joe		Juicy, man, real juicy.
eddie		 I know you know that.  I gotta talk with daddy and find out what he wants done.
flash on		 16     INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY  The Cop is standing in the warehouse with his hands cuffed behind his back.  Mr. White, Mr. Pink and Mr. Blonde surround him and proceed to beat the shit out of him. "Love Grows .." PLAYS over the soundtrack.
eddie		 All I know is what Vic told me. He said the place turned into a fuckin bullet festival.  He took a cop as hostage, just to get the fuck out of there.
flash on		 18     WAREHOUSE  The three men are stomping the cop into the ground.
eddie		 Okay, that's what I'll tell em.
eddie		 Fucking assholes.
eddie		What in Sam Hill is goin on?
eddie		Holy shit, this guy's all fucked up!
eddie		What?  Nobody set anybody up.
eddie		Bullshit.
eddie		Okay, Mr. Detective, who did it?
eddie		And what are your answers?  Was it me?  You think I set you up?
eddie		Nobody did.  You assholes turn the jewelry store into a wild west show, and you wonder why cops show up.
eddie		I ain't talked to him.  I talked to Dov.  Dov said he's comin out here, and he's fucking pissed.
eddie		Jesus Christ, give me a fuckin chance to breathe.  I got a few questions of my own, ya know.
eddie		I'll call somebody.
eddie		A snake charmer, what the fuck d'you think.  I'll call a doctor, take care of him, fix 'm right up. No, where's Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue?
eddie		Nobody saw what happened to Mr. Blue?
eddie		Would you stop it with that shit! You beat on this prick enough, he'll tell ya he started the Chicago fire.  That don't necessarily make it so.  Okay, first things fucking last, where's the shit?  Please tell me somebody brought something with them.
eddie		Well, let's go get it.  We also gotta get rid of all those cars. It looks like Sam's hot car lot outside.  You two take a car each, I'll follow ya.  You ditch it, I'll pick you up, then we'll pick up the stones.  And while I'm following you, I'll arrange for some sort of a doctor for our friend.
eddie		Why not?
eddie		What does it matter who stays with the cop?  We ain't lettin him go. Not after he's seen everybody. You should've never took him outta your trunk in the first place.
eddie		There is no fuckin set up!  Look, this is the news.  Blondie, you stay here and take care of them two.  White and Pink come with me, 'cuz if Joe gets here and sees all those fucking cars parked out front, he's going to be as mad at me as he is at you.
cop		I told you I don't know anything about any fucking set up.  I've only been on the force eight months, nobody tells me anything! I don't know anything!  You can torture me if you want--
cop		Your boss even said there wasn't a set up.
cop		Yes.
cop's pov		 Mr. Blonde walks away from the cop.  MR. BLONDE Let's see what's on K-BILLY'S "super sounds of the seventies" weekend.  He turns on the radio.  Stealer's Wheel's hit "Stuck in the Middle with You" PLAYS over the speaker.  NOTE: This entire sequence is timed to the music.  Mr. Blonde slowly walks toward the cop.  He opens a large knife.  He grabs a chair, places it in front of the cop and sits in it.  Mr. Blonde just stares into the cop's/our face, holding the knife, singing along with the song.  Then, like a cobra, he LASHES out.  A SLASH across the face.  The cop/camera moves around wildly.  Mr. Blonde just stares into the cop's/our face, singing along with the seventies hit.  Then he reaches out and CUTS OFF the cop's/our ear.  The cop/camera moves around wildly.  Mr. Blonde holds the ear up to the cop/us to see.  Mr. Blonde rises, kicking the chair he was sitting on out of the way.
cop		Jeffrey.
cop		Jeffrey Andrews.
jeffrey		I know.
jeffrey		Your name's Freddy something.
jeffrey		Frankie Ferchetti introduced us once, about five months ago.
jeffrey		I do.  How do I look?
jeffrey		That fucking bastard!  That fucking sick fucking bastard!
jeffrey		 What the fuck are they waiting for?  That motherfucker cut off my ear!  He slashed my face!  I'm deformed!
holdaway		This better not be some Freddy joke.
freddy		It ain't no joke, I'm in there. I'm up his ass.
holdaway		Congratulations.
holdaway		Woo all picked you up?
freddy		Nice Guy.  When we got to the bar...
holdaway		...What bar?
freddy		The Boots and Socks in Gardena. When we got there, I met Joe and a guy named Mr. White.  It's a phony name.  My name's Mr. Orange.
holdaway		You ever seen this motherfucker before?
freddy		Who, Mr. White?
holdaway		Yeah.
freddy		No, he ain't familiar.  He ain't one of Cabot's soldiers either. He's gotta be from outta town. But Joe knows him real well.
holdaway		How can you tell?
freddy		The way they talk to each other. You can tell they're buddies.
holdaway		Did the two of you talk?
freddy		Me and Mr. White?
holdaway		Yeah.
freddy		A little.
holdaway		What about?
freddy		The Brewers.
holdaway		The Milwaukee Brewers?
freddy		Yeah.  They had just won the night before, and he made a killing off 'em.
holdaway		Well, if this crook's a Brewers fan, his ass has gotta be from Wisconsin.  And I'll bet you everything from a diddle-eyed Joe to a damned-if-I-know, that in Milwaukee they got a sheet on this Mr. White motherfucker's ass.  I want you to go through the mugs of guys from old Milwaukee with a history of armed robbery, and put a name to that face.
holdaway		 What kinds questions did Cabot ask?
freddy		Where I was from, who I knew, how I knew Nice Guy, had I done time, shit like that.
freddy		He asked me if I ever done armed robbery before.  I read him my credits.  I robbed a few gas and sips, sold some weed, told him recently I held the shotgun while me and another guy pulled down a poker game in Portland.
freddy		Fuckin-A.  I tell it real good, too.
freddy		What's this?
holdaway		It's a scene.  Memorize it.
freddy		What?
holdaway		A undercover cop has got to be Marlon Brando.  To do this job you got to be a great actor.  You got to be naturalistic.  You got to be naturalistic as hell.  If you ain't a great actor you're a bad actor, and bad acting is bull shit in this job.
freddy		 But what is this?
holdaway		It's a amusing anecdote about a drug deal.
freddy		What?
holdaway		Something funny that happened to you while you were doing a job.
freddy		I gotta memorize all this shit?
holdaway		It's like a joke.  You remember what's important, and the rest you make your own.  The only way to make it your own is to keep sayin it, and sayin it, and sayin it, and sayin it, and sayin it.
freddy		I can do that.
holdaway		The things you gotta remember are the details.  It's the details that sell your story.  Now this story takes place in this men's room.  So you gotta know the details about this men's room. You gotta know they got a blower instead of a towel to dry your hands.  You gotta know the stalls ain't got no doors.  You gotta know whether they got liquid or powdered soap, whether they got hot water or not, 'cause if you do your job when you tell your story, everybody should believe it.  And if you tell your story to somebody who's actually taken a piss in this men's room, and you get one detail they remember right, they'll swear by you.
freddy		...this was during the Los Angeles marijuana drought of '86.  I still had a connection.  Which was insane, 'cause you couldn't get weed anyfuckinwhere then.  Anyway, I had a connection with this hippie chick up in Santa Cruz. All and my friends knew it.  And they'd give me a call and say, "Hey, Freddy, you buyin some, you think you could buy me some too?" They knew I smoked, so they'd ask me to buy a little for them when I was buyin.  But it got to be everytime I bought some weed, I was buyin for four or five different people.  Finally I said, "Fuck this shit."  I'm makin this bitch rich.  She didn't have to do jack shit, she never even had to meet these people.  I was fuckin doin all the work.  So I got together with her and told her, "Hey, I'm sick of this shit.  I'm comin through for everybody, and nobody's comin through for me. So, either I'm gonna tell all my friends to find their own source, or you give me a bunch of weed, I'll sell it to them, give you the money, minus ten percent, and I get my pot for free."  So, I did if for awhile...
freddy		...but then that got to be a pain in the ass.  People called me on the phone all the fuckin time.  I couldn't rent a fuckin tape without six phone calls interrupting me.  "Hey, Freddy, when's the next time you're gettin some?"  "Motherfucker, I'm tryin to watch 'Lost Boys'-- when I have some, I'll let you know."  And then these rinky-dink pot heads come by--there's my friends and everything, but still.  I got all my shit laid out in sixty dollar bags.  Well, they don't want sixty dollars worth.  They want ten dollars worth.  Breaking it up is a major fuckin pain in the ass.  I don't even know how much ten dollars worth is.  "Well, fuck, man, I don't want that much around.  If I have that much around I'll smoke it."  "Hey, if you guys can't control your smokin, that's not my problem. You motherfuckers been smokin for five years, be a adult about it." Finally I just told my connection, count me out.  But as it turns out, I'm the best guy she had, and she depended alot on my business. But I was still sick to death of it.  And she's trying to talk me into not quitin. Now this was a very weird situation, 'cause I don't know if you remember back in '86, there was a major fuckin drought. Nobody and anything.  People were livin on resin and smokin the wood in their pipes for months.  And this chick had a bunch, and was beggin me to sell it.  So I told her I wasn't gonna be Joe the Pot Man anymore.  But I would take a little bit and sell it to my close, close, close friends.  She agreed to that, and said we'd keep the same arrangement as before, ten percent and free pot for me, as long as I helped her out that weekend.  She had a brick of weed she was sellin, and she didn't want to go to the buy alone...
freddy		...Her brother usually goes with her, but he's in county unexpectedly.
freddy		Traffic tickets gone to warrant. They stopped him for something, found the warrants on 'im, took 'im to jail.  She doesn't want to walk around alone with all that weed.  Well, I don't wanna do this, I have a bad feeling about it, but she keeps askin me, keeps askin me, finally I said okay 'cause I'm sick of listening to it.  Well, we're picking this guy up at the train station.
joe		You're picking the buyer up at the train station?  You're carrying the weed on you?
freddy		Yeah, the guy needed it right away.  Don't ask me why.  So we get to the train station, and we're waitin for the guy.  Now I'm carrying the weed in one of those carry-on bags, and I gotta take a piss.  So I tell the connection I'll be right back, I'm goin' to the little boys room...
holdaway		Lawrence Dimick.  Let's see what we got on him.
jodie		This is your life, Lawrence Dimick!
jodie		He's only been convicted twice, which is pretty good for somebody living a life of crime.  Once for armed robbery, when he was twenty- one, in Milwaukee.
freddy		What was it?
jodie		Payroll office at a lumber yard. First offense - he got eighteen months.  He didn't get busted again until he was thirty-two. And then it was a backdoor bust. A routine vice squad roust.  They roust this bar, out buddy Lawrence is in there knocking down a few. He gets picked up.  He's wearing on his person an outlaw .45 automatic, apparently his weapon of choice.  Also, on his finger is a diamond ring from a jewelry store robbery a year earlier.  He got two years back inside for that.
freddy		Goddamn, that's hard time.
jodie		So far, it's the only time he's ever done.
holdaway		Was this vice squad bullshit in Milwaukee?
jodie		No.  The vice squad roust was in L.A.  He's been in Los Angeles
freddy		When did he do this time?
jodie		Back in '83, got out late '86.  I found something else out I think you two should be aware of. About a year and a half ago, up in Sacramento, an undercover cop, John Dolenz, worked his way into a bank job.  Apparently before the job they found out he was a cop. Now picture this:  It's Dolenz's birthday, a bunch of cops are waiting in his apartment for a surprise party.  The door opens, everyone yells "Surprise!", and standing in the doorway is Dolenz and this other guy sticking a gun in Dolenz's ribs.  Before anybody knows what's going on, this stranger shoots Dolenz dead and starts firing two .45 automatics into the crowd.
holdaway		What happened?
jodie		It was a mess.  Cops got hit, wives got hit, girlfriends got hit, his dog got hit.  People got glass in their faces.  Three were killed, six were wounded.
freddy		They couldn't pin the killing on one of the bank robbers?
jodie		They tried, but they didn't have a positive I.D. and all those guys had alibis.  Besides, we really didn't have anything on them.  We had the testimony of a dead man that they were talking about committing a robbery.  They never went ahead with the bank job.
freddy		And Larry Dimick was one of the boys?
jodie		He was probably the one.
holdaway		Just how sure are you with your cover?
freddy		Today they may know something, tomorrow they may know something else.  But yesterday they didn't know anything.
freddy		Hello.
eddie		--We're parked outside.
eddie		He'll be right down.
freddy		 You're not gonna get hurt.  You're fucking Baretta and they believe every word, cuz you're super cool.
eddie		I gotta go along with Mr. Pink on this.  I've seen it happen.
eddie		Let me tell you guys a story.  In one of daddy's clubs there was this black cocktail waitress named Elois.
eddie		Yeah, Elois. E and Lois.  We called her Lady E.
eddie		No.  She was from Ladora Heights.
eddie		Pam Grier.
eddie		Well, whoever she was, Elois looked like her.  So one night I walk into the club, and no Elois. Now the bartender was a wetback, he was a friend of mine, his name was Carlos. So I asked him "Hey, Carlos, where's Lady E tonight?"  Well apparently Lady E was married to this real piece of dog shit.  I mean a real animal.  And apparently he would so things to her.
eddie		Nobody knows for sure what he did. We just know he did something. Anyway, Elois plays it real cool. And waits for the next time this bag of shit gets drunk.  So one night the guy gets drunk and passes out on the couch.  So while the guy's inebriated, she strips him naked. Then she takes some crazy glue and glues his dick to his belly.
eddie		I'm dead fuckin serious.  She put some on his dick and some on his belly, then stuck 'em together. The paramedics had to come and cut it loose.
freddy		You can do some crazy things with it.
eddie		I don't know what he did to her, but she got even.
joe		 "All I gotta do is take my pinky and tickle my Fifi's little oo la la  and she rises a foot off the bed."
joe		 "You guys ain't no cocksmen. When I get through fuckin my Sophie, I wipe my dick on the curtains and you know what?  She hits the roof!"
joe		Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha!
joe		Ain't that a masterpiece?  Stupid fuckin Polack, wipes his dick on the drapes.
joe		You're here, great!
eddie		We woulda gotten here sooner, but we got backed up around La Brea and Pico.
joe		No hurry.  All right, let's get to know one another.  With the exception of Eddie and myself, who you already know, you'll be using aliases. Under no circumstances are you to tell one another your real name or anything else about yourself. That includes where you're from, your wife's name, where you might've done time, about a bank in St. Petersburg you might've robbed.  You guys don't say shit about who you are, where you been or what you've done.  Only thing you guys can talk about is what you're going to do.  This way the only ones who know who the members of the team are are Eddie and myself.  And that's the way I like it.  Because in the unlikely event of one of you getting apprehended by the cops, not that I expect that to happen - it most definitely should not happen - it hasn't happened, you don't have anything to deal with.  You don't know any names.  You know my name, you know Eddie's name.  That I don't care about.  You gotta prove it.  I ain't worried.  Besides, this way you gotta trust me.  I like that.  I set this up and picked the men I wanted for it. None of you came to me, I approached all of you.  I know you.  I know your work, I know your reputation.  I know you as men.  Except for this guy.
joe		But he's OK.  If he wasn't OK, he wouldn't be here.  Okay, let me introduce everybody to everybody. But once again, at the risk of being redundant, if I even think I hear somebody telling or referring to somebody by their Christian name...  Mr. Brown, Mr. White, Mr. Blonde, Mr. Blue, Mr. Orange, and Mr. Pink.
joe		Cause you're a faggot.
joe		I tried that once, it don't work. You get four guys fighting over who's gonna be Mr. Black.  Since nobody knows anybody else, nobody wants to back down.  So forget it, I pick.  Be thankful you're not Mr. Yellow.
joe		You're not Mr. Purple, somebody from another job's Mr. Purple. You're Mr. Pink.
joe		Nobody's trading with anybody! Look, this ain't a goddamn fuckin city counsel meeting!  Listen up Mr. Pink.  We got two ways here, my way or the highway.  And you can go down either of 'em.  So what's it gonna be, Mr. Pink?
holdaway		Okay, we're gonna station men across the street from Karina's Fine Jewelry.  But their orders will be not to move in unless the robbery gets out of control.  You gotta make sure they don't have to move in.  You're inside to make sure that everything goes according to Hoyle.  We have men set up a block away from the warehouse rendezvous.  They got complete visibility of the exterior.  So as soon as Joe Cabot shows up, we'll see it.
freddy		What's your visibility of the interior?
holdaway		We can't see shit on the inside. And we can't risk gettin any closer for fear they'll spot us.
freddy		This is bullshit, Jim.  I get all the fuckin danger of having you guys in my back pocket but none of the safety.
holdaway		What's the matter, Newendyke?  Job too tough for ya?  No one lied to you.  You always knew we'd hang back until Joe Cabot showed up.
freddy		Oh this is great.  You ain't giving me no fuckin protection whatsoever.  But you are giving me an attitude.
holdaway		Since when does an undercover cop have protection?  Freddy, you came into this thing with your eyes wide open, so don't start screamin blind man now.  I understand you're nervous.  I wish the warehouse had more visible windows, but it doesn't.  We have to make do with the cards we're dealt.
freddy		I didn't say I wasn't gonna do it. I'm just remarking on how shitty the situation is!
holdaway		I don't mean to be harsh with ya, but I've found tough love works best in these situations.  We have to get Joe Cabot in the company of the thieves and in the same vicinity as the loot. We don't care about these other bastards.  We're willing to offer them good deals to testify against Cabot.
freddy		Isn't this risk unorthodox?
holdaway		What?
freddy		Letting them go ahead with the robbery?
holdaway		The whole idea behind this operation is to catch Joe Cabot red-handed.  We bust these hired hands, we ain't accomplished shit. Letting them go through with the heist is a risk, but Cabot's jobs are very clean.  We got people surrounding the perimeter.  We got a guy and a gal on the inside posing as a couple shopping for rings.  We could replace the employees with cops, but we'd run the risk of tipping 'em off.
freddy		That's out.  They know the faces of who works what shift.
holdaway		These guys are professionals. We're professionals.  It's a risk, but I think it's a calculated risk.
freddy		You two take the manager in the back and make him give you the diamonds.  We're there for those stones, period.  Since no display cases are being fucked with, no alarms should go off.  We're out of there in two minutes, not one second longer.  What if the manager won't give up the diamonds?
freddy		You're not blind, there's just blood in your eyes.
freddy		I'm sorry.
freddy		I'm sorry.  I can't believe she killed me...
eddie		 You know, all things considered, this was pretty successful.
eddie		No, it was messy as hell, but do you realize how much you got away with?  There's over two million dollars worth of diamonds here.
eddie		Hey, what's done is done.  We can all sit around and have a big cry about it or we can deal with the situation at hand.
eddie		Hey, it's the best I could do.
eddie		And I'm telling you, Bonnie'll take care of him.
eddie		Ask me how many doctors I called. You wanna embarrass yourself, ask me how many doctors I called.
eddie		Fuck you! You gotta little black book, then whip is out.  If not, listen how it is.  I called three doctors and couldn't get through to shit.  Now, time being a factor, I called Bonnie.  Sweet broad, helluva broad, and a registered nurse.  Told her a bullshit story, upside:  she said bring him to her apartment.
eddie		Fuck you buddy boy!  Okay, you wanna play that way.  I am personally leaving myself vulnerable with this Bonnie situation.  I don't think she'll call the cops, but I don't know for sure.  But me being too nice- a-fuckin-guy was willin to risk it.  But no fuckin more.  I'm callin Bonnie back and tellin her to forget it.  You take care of your friend, you know so much about it.
eddie		I don't need to grow up, my friend.  I am a grown up.  I'm being responsible, I'm taking care of business.
eddie		Yeah, well I don't give a flying fuck what you think!
eddie		Yeah, right.  I arrange a nurse, I leave myself wide open, and I'm an asshole.
eddie		What the fuck happened here?
eddie		 Who cares what he was gonna do to this fuckin pig?
eddie		 You were saying he went crazy? Something like that?  Worse or better?
eddie		I don't buy it.  It doesn't make sense.
eddie		 Let me say this out loud, just to get it straight in my mind. According to you, Mr. Blonde was gonna kill you.  Then when we came back, kill us, grab the diamonds, and scram.  That's your story? I'm correct about that, right?
eddie		You're a fuckin liar.  Now why don't you drop the fuckin fairy tale and tell me what really happened?
eddie		The man you killed was just released from prison.  He got caught at a company warehouse full of hot items.  He could've walked away.  All he had to do was say my dad's name.  But instead he shut his mouth and did his time.  He did four years for us, and he did 'em like a man.  And we were very grateful.  So, Mr. Orange, you're tellin me this very good friend of mine, who did four years for my father, who in four years never made a deal, no matter what they dangled in front of him, you're telling me that now, that now this man is free, and we're making good on our commitment to him, he's just gonna decide, right out of the fuckin blue, to rip us off?
eddie		Mr. Orange, why don't you tell me what really happened?
joe		 This man set us up.
eddie		Daddy, I'm sorry, I don't know what's happening.
joe		That's okay, Eddie, I do.
joe		 That piece of shit.  Workin with the cops.
joe		I said this lump of shit is workin with the LAPD.
joe		Aren't you?
joe		Like hell I am.
joe		You don't know jack shit.  I do. This rotten bastard tipped off the cops and got Mr. Brown and Mr. Blue killed.
joe		Dead as Dillinger.
eddie		The motherfucker killed Vic.
joe		He was the only one I wasn't a hundred percent on.  I should have my fucking head examined for goin forward when I wasn't a hundred percent.  But he seemed like a good kid, and I was impatient and greedy and all the things that fuck you up.
joe		You don't need proof when you got instinct.  I ignored it before, but not no more.
eddie		Have you lost your fucking mind? Put your gun down!
eddie		Stop pointing your fuckin gun at daddy!
joe		Don't worry, Eddie.  Me and Larry have been friends a long time, he ain't gonna shoot.  We like each other too much.
joe		Larry, I'm gonna kill him.
joe		Larry, I'm askin you to trust me on this.
joe		I'm not askin, I'm betting.
eddie		Daddy, don't!
****Dialogues from script :Resident_Evil.txt****

resident evil		ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY BY GEORGE A. ROMERO
screen story		BY GEORGE A. ROMERO & PETER GRUNWALD
constantin film		ROMERO-GRUNWALD PRODUCTIONS
first draft		OCTOBER 7, 1998
chris		Take it, Goliath. It's yours.
chris		 Glad you're still here, lady
jill		It's my apartment.
chris		 You're awake.
jill		I've been awake. Since you left.
chris		Sorry.
jill		What, with my dinner? I never had a mother. I'll learn.
chris		I'll do the cooking.
jill		There are probably all kinds of things prowling around up there. In the middle of the night.
chris		I'm sorry. Really. You...have to be there at dawn. They ride the wind over the ridge.
jill		Dawn? You left at one A.M.
chris		I had to go fishing. It's the fish that bring them down, so I can get a close look at them.  I've tracked a dozen of them, Jill. Twelve of those big bruisers. I can actually recognize them. I've even given them names, over the years.
jill		You've been doing this for years?
chris		Only in the early Autumn. When they're' migrating.
jill		I'II set the alarm for next. October.
chris		Beauty... isn't simple. If it was... I'd be beautiful.
jill		You are.
chris		No, no, no.  I'm simple.  You, on the other hand......have all that... stuff... hiding underneath somewhere. That's what fascinates me.
jill		Fascination. Not love?
chris		I... honestly don't know. I guess I've been... living alone too long. You're the first, the only woman I've ever thought of as... a real partner.
jill		I've always been...afraid of living alone. I've always had... people... talking at me... knowing they could wind me up and I'd do...  ... whatever they wanted.
chris		I'm part Mohawk. Indians are never confused. At least, they never let it show.
rake		Get in there, Lucky. Quit horsin' around. Get in.
radio man		Top brass, sir!
jill		 Valentine.
disimone		Another practice run, right?
russo		We been practicin' six months! For what?
jill		For this. This is the real deal.
williams		Honest to God?
jill		Based on my experience, Williams, God isn't always honest
disimone		Where we goin'?
jill		In there.
russo		If you had the jing to build a place like this, would you build it in the middle of fuckin' nowhere?
williams		Paris.
disimone		Manhattan. Upper west.
jill		 Our orders are to secure the area.
disimone		From what? This area's been 'secure' since the French and Indian War!
jill		 This is Valentine, Bravo Team. We, er... we might be in trouble, here.
wesker		Can you get a trace?
laguardia		Lost the beacon. It just cut out. Like it was...swallowed by something.
wesker		I do believe, gentlemen...that we're gonna be earning some combat pay.
barry		Damn, if you don't love a fight.
wesker		Hey, if I didn't... you'd be a dead man.  Call in a nine- nine. I want Raccoon City e-vacked.
bullhorn		There's been an accident in the hills nearby. A military aircraft, carrying live weapons, has crashed...
soldier		Let's go, hayseed.  You gonna be a good boy?
man		Look here, I'm the Sheriff of this...
soldier		Step aside.
sheriff		But, I'm the Sheriff! An ex-Army man, like you.
sherriff		That's a worn-out scenario. If a plane crashed nearby, don't you think somebody would have heard it go down? Tell us the truth, guys. What's this really about?
soldier		I said, STEP ASIDE!
wesker		Charlie, David, Edward, proceed to Raccoon City. Assist the e-vack. I'm going on target with Alpha Team. All forces stand ready to support.
chris		Aw, no...  ...L-Lucky.
rake		 They... they come outta the trees, Reddy. Don't... don't know what they was. Figure... maybe some kinda... wolves, or somethin' ...
rake		I... I never seen 'em comin'.
chris		Don't try to talk, Rake.
chris		I know. You... kept the place runnin'... better than me.
rake		I just...never seen 'em comin', Reddy. Never even...had a chance to...turn a gun on 'em.
chris		Where are they going? There's nothing in there... except...
rake		Y'oughta... remember it... real good. I do.  From... when you was a kid.
chris		The... the old Arkley place?
rake		I remember them days. I surely do... Remember them... them old days.
chris		Oh, God, Rake. Oh, Jesus, the poor thing's still alive.
wesker		You'll have to rotate or you'll run out of fuel, but I want one chopper to remain in the air at all times. We might need help in a hurry.
vickers		Holy... Goh... gaah...
aiken		You ever eat road-kill, Sullivan?
sullivan		Aiken... a guy with a brain your size would be better off dead.
alken		I'll pass. Shoot Sullivan.
wesker		 Radio Washington.  Bravo Team found on site. No survivors.
wesker		We're goin' in.  Watch your backs.
wesker		Who fired? WHO FIRED?
rodriguez		Let's get inside.
barry		Even-Steven, boss.  You saved my ass in the desert.  I saved yours I in Pennsylvania.
wesker		I don't believe in being... 'Even- Steven' with anybody.  A man saves my ass...I pay him back.  Before this day is over, I'll pay you back, Barry.  Just... stick with me, okay?
barry		Look here, man.  I'd follow you into any kind of enemy fire.  But these things ain't firin' at us. They want us for breakfast!  When are you gonna tell us what the hell is goin' on here?
wesker		When you need to know.  Just do your job, soldier.  That's what I'm doin'.  My job.
aiken		Old. They probably don't have cable.
sullivan		They probably don't have radio.
rodriguez		Who's they? Who's place is this?
wesker		Guy named Arkley.  Bootlegger.  Built this old fortress during prohibition. He figured nobody'd ever find him out here in the back woods.  Nobody did. Till he died.  Feds have had it ever since.  Place has been here for eighty years... derelict... a safe-house.
barry		A safe-house... for who? For what?
wesker		There's a... a secret installation. Below.  A network of laboratories.
rebecca		What kind of... laboratories?
wesker		 They didn't issue us gas-masks, so I figure... it's okay to breathe.
rodriguez		Why send in a strike-force?
sullivan		Yeah. What are we supposed to do? Polish the silver?
wesker		Three men stay here. Chambers...
rebecca		I'm not a man.
wesker		Rodriguez...
rodriguez		I'm better than a man.
wesker		Alright. you come with us. Aiken, Sullivan, stick here with Chambers.
aiken		Why us?
sullivan		I dunno why me. You? I guess the C.O. figures you're as worthless as a dame, Aiken.
rebecca		Relax. I get it.
barry		That thing...tells you where to go?
wesker		One man stays here. Ridley. You're it. Shoot to kill. Just make sure it's not one of us. The rest of you... this way.
ridley		Who... who's there?
ridley		Who are you?
chris		Who are YOU? What the hell is S.T.A.R.S.?
ridley		How'd you get in here?
chris		Who sealed the door?
ridley		Who knew there a door?
ridley		Who... who... ?
speyer		Where'd that come from?
barry		Back...where we just were.
speyer		Shit, man, we're chasin' our tails!
speyer		Damn. Surnbitch took a lotta lead.
barry		That's not what killed him. Blood's still running. Wounds are fresh. But look at his skin. This guy's been dead for a couple of days.
rodriguez		He was dead... before he was shot?
chris		I... I'm one of the good guys, okay I'm just trying to...
rebecca		 SULLIVAN! AIKEN!
chris		Shit.
aiken		Who was that?
sullivan		Forget him. What are they?
chris		Somebody did some major remodeling.
rebecca		We gotta get him out!
aiken		What? Smart fuckin' plants?
sullivan		No big deal. Most-plants are smarter than you, Aiken.
speyer		Why would anyone shoot a dead man?
rodriguez		Lemme guess. Maybe 'cause he was... walkin' around?
barry		Head-shot. We were sprayin' those dogs outside... but think about it. Were any of 'em brought down without a head-shot.
jill		I lost three me.  You killed them, Wesker. You did... and I did. Because I didn't know what to expect... because you... didn't tell me!
wesker		 Tell you what?
jill		Anything! I wasn't told anything!
wesker		Put down the gun.
jill		Not until...
wesker		RELEASE! THAT'S AN ORDER, SOLDIER!
jill		 How ya doin' , Valentine? Good to see ya. Glad you're still alive. Same here, colonel, I'm...
wesker		How did you get in here?
jill		 I... locked them off.
wesker		Good thinking.
wesker		Ladies first.
jill		Fuck you.
rodriguez		Maybe... they're in the house. More of them dogs.
rebecca		Diameter's too small. It... almost looks as if... it was done by a...
jill		 A human?
aiken		Not a vegetarian, that's for sure.
sullivan		Aiken, you'd be better off...
rebecca		There was a guy. Not part of the team. And there was... some kind of... plant... that seemed... alive.
rodriguez		Gimme a fuckin' break.
aiken		No shit. It disappeared... right into the wall.
wesker		I guess it's... time to spill it.
rodriguez		Speak English, hombre.
wesker		Marcus has been experimenting with an artificial... man-made... virus. Coded...the 'T'-virus.  Financing came from a private corporation, you may have heard the name... Umbrella.
jill		They're... multi-national. Huge.
wesker		So huge that they have... connections... in high places.  That's why we're here.
barry		This virus... it jumped, right?
speyer		Shit! We're all dead! We got the bug, and we're all dead!
wesker		It's not airborne. It was spread... in the water supply. Lab animals and... the researchers themselves... passed it on... by...
jill		By... biting.
barry		You catch this virus and... what?
wesker		You die. But... not for long. The chemical...revives the brain, and...
rodriguez		You stand back up... and chew on the first guy you see.
speyer		Christ, this is like... Night of the Living Dead!
barry		Why, in the name of Jesus, would anybody wanna mess with shit... that does that shit?
wesker		Victory, friend. Civilization has come a long way, but we still have... war.  Imagine... a soldier who can't die.  That... was the concept.
jill		But the virus... jumped.
wesker		Hopefully... if we got all the dogs... we've contained it.
jill		Hopefully?  Jesus... why didn't you tell us?
wesker		By telling you NOW, I've put your lives in jeopardy. Nobody has this information. Except a few high-and- mightys. Me. And now, you.
rebecca		I don't know, this all sounds pretty shaky to me...
rodriguez		Guess that proves it. A head-shot knocks 'em down.
rebecca		Th-that man.. .was dead.  I... I'm a doctor! I should know! That man was dead!
vickers		I hope you have a lot of these.
chris		 Hey.
aiken		Where the fuck is a shark's brain?
sullivan		In it's head! I swear, Aiken, you would be better off dead.
wesker		Nice. Very NICE, Valentine! You set off a containment breach!
jill		It must have been the water. God, the water! (She turns to Chris} Did you swallow any?
speyer		I did.
sullivan		A bunch of us did, man.
wesker		Separate systems. Salt water. No germs. But.. .it breached!
rodriguez		So...we live here now.
wesker		There are override exits... but I can't find them without THIS!
chris		That was a smart move.
wesker		And... you are?
chris		Nobody.  Just a...a local guy...
wesker		Valentine...who is this asshole?
jill		His name is Chris Redfield. He was... part of my cover, sir.
chris		Cover?
jill		This is not the time to mouth off, Chris! You're in deep shit here!
chris		Why didn't you let me in on this?
jill		Why did you have to come after me? How did you get in here, anyway?
chris		I used to play here, when this was a fucking laundry room!  And what makes you think I came after YOU?
barry		 Whoa! Look here.
wesker		It...it once was.
barry		A map. Same as on your gizmo. Exits marked...blue and green.
wesker		The greens are the overrides.  Can you print this out?
vickers		I can try.
wesker		We have to get down to level 'D'.
barry		Hold on. Marcus is dead. If this mission was about bringin' him out, we're outta here, right?
wesker		I wish we were, but no. We have a potential outbreak here. We might be the only ones who can stop it.
speyer		Stop it? How?
wesker		There's... an antidote.
jill		 Not simple.
chris		 Not complicated, either. We only have to decide... what's right... and what's wrong.
jill		 I forgot. You're never confused. So...what's right, Mohawk? And what's wrong?
vickers		Shit.  There are no green exits on this level. Why... why would that be?
chris		They don't want anybody up here to go snoopin' ...upstairs or down.
wesker		Pretty good guess. You must have been in the military, son.
chris		Native American. Exempted.
vickers		 Fuck! There... there's no way out!
chris		Yes there is.
wesker		Not a bad idea.  See if you can call up... service charts, schematics.
vickers		Got it. Ceiling grids, ladders. The whole infrastructure.
wesker		Print it. Print all of it.
rebecca		What's that from?
vickers		 I...snagged it. On the desk. When we were scrambling.
rebecca		Lemme look at it. VICKERS  No. It's just a scratch!
chris		There's a... part of an old laundry chute. It might not show on there. It runs up to the kitchen.
wesker		I'm not going up. I'm going down.
jill		No objections. We'll back you up.
chris		 You said... people wind you up and you do whatever they want you to do.
wesker		Stay out of this, son. You're the only one who doesn't have a choice in this. There's no place to lock you up. I can't let you go, you're a security risk. I could shoot you. Legally. But your lady-friend would probably get all over my ass. So... I'm afraid you're comin' with us... whether you like it or not.  He's your responsibility, Valentine. See that he doesn't make trouble.
chris		You up to the challenge?
jill		Try me.
chris		 I already have.
chris		Jill, I... I'm sorry. I'm just... angry. When I... thought you were gone, I... Then... when I saw you. Alive. I realized that...
jill		That you were still... fascinated.
chris		Stop. Stop!
jill		 I...I want to. I want... nothing more. But... I can't. When I'm in this uniform, I'm more than... just me. Try to understand...there's no "I" in Team, Chris.
chris		There's no "I" in DEAD, either.
jill		You go. You're not part of this.
chris		I'm part of it as. long as you are.
chris		For me, too, brother.
barry		I mean this...  It's very uncomfortable.
chris		Eighteen years?
barry		Yep. Two away from the big re-ti.
jill		Desk job, right? Nobody lasts that long if they've seen action.
barry		I've seen action in Granada.  And Desert Storm.  Would have lost it all there... if my buddy didn't bring in a team, against orders, to pull my ass out.  Buddy named... Wesker.
chris		You've been with this asshole since... ?
barry		Since before that.  We were... kids together.  Macon, Georgia.  He's... only an asshole some of the time...
vickers		Who knows what we'll find down there?
aiken		Think positive.  The farther down we go, the worse it's gonna get.  So... until we hit bottom, we're in good shape... relatively speaking.
speyer		What the fuck?
vickers		Whatever it is.. .it can't get us. We're in the ceiling!
aiken		Maybe it's like... really tall.
sullivan		Aiken...
wesker		Main-frame. Might have some data we could use.  Fox, Marini, Vickers.  Down.
chris		The man has balls, I'll say that.
wesker		Hustle it, Vickers.  You're the guy we need.  To cut into the network.
wesker		Watch these entrances, guys.
vickers		AAAAH ! Shit.
wesker		Hold tight. It doesn't sound like it's on this level.
vickers		 Shit. I'm locked out. Any clues for a password?
wesker		Try... Umbrella.
vickers		Nothing. Wait. I'm into... No. No data. Just some kind of video feed. Time-coded. Yesterday. It's a play-back.  Holy shit!
fox		Maybe the ceiling's not such a safe place, after all.
wesker		Scram! SCRAM!
barry		Haul ass, boss!
wesker		That's...two I owe ya.
barry		One. We were all... 'Even-Steven' .
wesker		Two. Remember? 'Even-Steven' ... is not in my vocabulary.
chris		Those things could get up here. We can't let that happen. This is our way out...
chris		 Caruso.
chris		Thank you.
jill		Any time. How do we get back UP?
chris		Shit, if you didn't have a plan, you shouldn't have jumped down here.
jill		We have a real problem here, Chris.
chris		How big is this place? How many people were down here? How...
jill		HOW DO WE GET UP?
chris		 Big. Heavy.
jill		It got you!
barry		No skin broken. I'm alright.
chris		We owe you a pair of pants.
wesker		Stand down. Five minutes.
speyer		I'm through, Wesker.
marini		Me too, man. This ain't nothin' I signed on for.
wesker		 You want to wait here, fine.
marini		Wait here? No. We're gettin' out!
wesker		You can't.  Not without this.
speyer		Fuck you! And your fancy doors and your green key! The choppers have rockets. They can blow out a wall if they have to. I'm callin' 'em in.
wesker		You wanna see a wall blow, I'll blow all of 'em for ya.
chris		You...lunatic! That damn thing can slip out of your ear by accident!
wesker		That's right. It's your job...all of your jobs...to see that it doesn't. And to see that my heart... doesn't skip any beats.
sullivan		Sumbitch might do it, Speyer.
wesker		I'II be obliged to do it! If I don't get that antidote, I'll have to burn this place out!  Valentine. The radio.
chris		 What are you, this guy's flunky? He just threatened to blow us all up, for Christ's sake!
jill		That's what I'm trying to prevent!
laguardia		How many digits did you receive?
radio man		Six. The beginning of an air- support code, but... it just went dead on me.
laguardia		Call S.T.A.R.S. in Washington. I want...
radio man		Hold it...
laguardia		Call Washington anyway. I want the authority to take action if necessary.
radio man		No independent action.
laguardia		Damn. I feel so fuckin'... helpless!
wesker		You guys were hand-picked. A Special Unit. Most of you have been sitting on your asses, drawing pay checks for more than two years. Well... it's time to repay those... Government loans.
speyer		Bull shit. I'm not...
wesker		Pitch your empties. Put all your loaded clips on that crate there. I want a count. Then I want the rounds divvied up... evenly.
aiken		Lingerie. Notions.
wesker		GOD DAMMIT, NO MORE JOKES! We have men dead upstairs! This hell-hole is full of people who died... because of this stinkin' ...BUG!
jill		Forty two.
speyer		That's all we have?
wesker		We weren't expecting a war, Speyer.  I'll take three. Three to your boyfriend...
chris		Don't need 'em. Got my own loads.
wesker		Good. Then... we all get four clips.
speyer		They must have... weapons down here, somewhere. A powder magazine.
wesker		No more side trips. It was a mistake to go into that lab upstairs. My mistake. And I'm not makin' another one. From now on it's straight ahead. In and out.
chris		Jill...this guy is a Loony-Toon.
jill		He's just... trying to get the job done. Doing what he has to do.
chris		Yeah, well...I hope you'll say the same about me... when I do... what I have to do.
wesker		 It's not clear... which way to go.
rodriguez		Want me to flip a coin?
sullivan		What's that sound like to you?
chris		 This is the heart of the whole place. They've got to have it... protected somehow.
sullivan		There's no way outta this mousetrap!
rodriguez		So we live here now?
speyer		We gotta run for it.
aiken		Bad idea, Speyer.
chris		Down. Through these.
vickers		Where do they go?
sullivan		Does it matter?
jill		On three...
chris		One... two...
jill		God...and it doesn't even stop them...
chris		It's not meant to stop them. It's meant to stop...something else.
speyer		We damn near got turned into Rice Krispies by that gizmo of yours. If you don't want me to nail that fuckin' thing into your ear, you deactivate it. Right now.
wesker		I can't. They.. .fixed it... so you can't chicken out. The system can only be turned off at the main panel.
barry		Where the hell is that?
wesker		Where the explosives are. Down... farther than we need to go. We only have to make it down one more level. If... when... we make it back up to the choppers... we can fly out of the detonator's signal range.
chris		I'm not willing to rely on that. I live here, this is my town!
wesker		The town's been evacuated. Just... just in case.
chris		That explains the lie. About the plane crash. An airplane down... with weapons on board... would nicely explain a big explosion, wouldn't it? You figured all along you might have to blow this place!
wesker		I don't want to do it. I... I hope I don't have to.
chris		I...I can't let this happen. I've got to find that bomb.
jill		I'll help. Once Wesker gets what he wants, my obligation is over.
chris		No. I want you out. With the rest of them. Wesker won't push the button until you're clear.
jill		He doesn't want to push the button.
chris		He has to. Don't you see? He can't leave these labs here. And, Jesus... walking corpses! He's gotta get rid of the evidence.
jill		Chris, no!
chris		I've got to try and stop this.
rodriguez		Shit. One thing after another.
wesker		Sit tight. Ride it out.
jill		CHRIS!
wesker		This way. 
jill		No. That way.  Chris and the others...
wesker		If they're dead, they're dead. If they're alive, they'll still be alive in twenty minutes. When we get back.
jill		Maybe not. And how do we know it's only going to be twenty minutes? How do we know we'll be able to come back this way?
wesker		We don't. But we'll do our damndest to try. This is it, guys. The home stretch. Let's go.
rebecca		Th-this thing was no accident. It was cultivated!
chris		And it didn't rip out the ceiling for the fun of it. Stay alert.
aiken		My mother made me eat vegetables. I know 'em all. This ain't one of 'em.
sullivan		Aiken...
aiken		Sullivan! JESUS, SULLIVAN!
chris		Get out of the away!
aiken		They.. .they killed Sullivan. The bastards... whoever did this shit... they KILLED SULLIVAN!
chris		 Hold this.
aiken		K-kill me. S-Sullvan said...I'd be.. .better off dead. That...ain't never been truer than now. Kill me!
holden		Keep us appraised.
wesker		Where are the others?
jill		Right behind me. Were you... talking to someone?
wesker		To Washington. To my... superiors. They're your superiors too, Valentine. Don't forget that.
barry		Nothin'. man. No doors. Nothin'. We hit a dead end.
speyer		Us too. Cement wall.
vickers		We're never gonna get to that lab.
rebecca		 I... can't take this any more.
chris		We take what comes. That's the secret of our genius.
rebecca		Not very old at all. Not nearly old enough to...to...
chris		None of us is old enough for that.
rebecca		Jill... told me... you were nice .
chris		She did? She never told me.
chris		Hurry.
barry		Head shots. Ain't doin' nothin'!
wesker		That was the idea.
barry		What idea?
wesker		To win. The idea was... to win.
jill		Wing it!
chris		You know...that just might be the ticket. Wing the fuckers.
speyer		Run! We slowed 'em down. Run!
barry		Where? As far as we'll get, either way, is a cement wall.
ada		You lost a man. If I had only been faster. I was unfamiliar with the mechanism.
ada		Don't worry, it's mindless. It doesn't realize that it's strong enough to push the door open.
rodriguez		Hasn't happened to me, yet.
ada		My... colleagues. Benjamin. Toshiro. As far as we know, we are the...only ones.. .left alive. We worked on "C" level. One of the biologists saved us. Brought us down here. He knew that... he didn't have long to live. He... started the mechanism... out there, in the corridor.. .and he let it... take him.
rodriguez		You did fine, lady. We're obliged.
ada		As are we.  We believed... we would die here. Believed...the bomb would destroy us.
jill		You knew.. .about the bomb?
ada		The end for a place like this, when it fails... must be a bomb, yes?
chris		It... already came. ma'am. We brought it. The colonel, here... he's wearing it.
ada		 Is it true? Are you here to... rescue? Or destroy?
wesker		Both.  If I have to pick only one... I'll pick destroy.
ada		You're not S.T.A.R.S. You're Umbrella.
wesker		Once again. Both.  Two salaries. Three if you count combat pay.
ada		The man I loved, John Marcus... developed the organism that caused all this. He... he did it for humanitarian purposes. It was taken away from him...for in-human purposes...by men like you!
wesker		No, ma'am. Men like me... are just errand boys. Sent in to do the wet-work. All of the glory. None of the benefits.
ada		After what you've seen down here, do you think any of it could be turned into... benefit?
wesker		Yes. I think it could be turned into five or ten million dollars. How do we get into "D" lab?
ada		Death lab.  John was killed...never even knowing it existed. They kept him... isolated, upstairs, while a separate team was down here...corrupting his research. Using it to build B.O.W.s.
chris		B.O.W.s?
ada		Bio-organic weapons.
rebecca		The sharks. The plant.
ada		Early experiments.
chris		The snake.
ada		A failure. Its behavior remained reptilian. All they could ever get it to do was... grow in size.
rodriguez		Those dogs. They were weapons.
ada		No. They... simply became infected. As did... everyone else. Janitors. The cook. Electricians. Guards. People who believed they were serving their flag. Scientists. Great minds... turned into mindless.. .ghouls!
chris		Before the outbreak, the experiments went further, didn't they? Those... ceiling-crawlers out there.. .
ada		The product of human DNA spliced with the DNA of vicious carnivores... animals, even insects. Plated with armor, beneath newly cultivated skin. Then... injected with poison, so their biological components would die.
jill		Die.
ada		The "T"-virus reactivates them in a matter of minutes, but... in battle, lost minutes are... inconvenient. So, the B.O.W.s had to die... and be allowed to revive before they could be used to... full advantage. They were murdered... by their own people... so they could never be murdered again... by the enemy.
chris		Were any more of these...weapons... developed?
wesker		HOW DO WE GET INTO "D" LAB?
ada		You don't.
wesker		How fortunate... that I am.
ada		Have...you been leaving doors open?
jill		Yes.
ada		This place is going to be overrun by...
rebecca		Brad's in really bad shape.
vickers		One...of the sharks. Its teeth. I Just...brushed up against its teeth...after it was dead.
ada		 Shoot him. Somebody, shoot him!
jill		No! We're so close. The antidote.
barry		What's got into you man? This... this isn't like you.
wesker		Oh, yes, this is exactly like me.
rodriguez		 You know how to use that thing, chica?
ada		Of course I do. I'm a scientist.
rebecca		No! You can't! Not while there's still a chance to save him!
wesker		 It's called... the Tyrant. Nobody knows it exists. Except us... and Holden.
barry		Holden?
wesker		Umbrella's man in D.C. We need him. He signs the checks.  We've got it, Barry! Our fortune!
barry		You're not gonna try to get this big mother outta here ?
wesker		Don't have to. All we need is the data. Then.. .these things can be cranked out on an assembly line!
barry		What about the antidote?
wesker		Antidote?  There is no antidote. That was just happy horse shit, to keep the team going.
barry		You're gonna give this to Umbrella?
wesker		No. I'm gonna sell it to them. Then I'm gonna open a Swiss bank account... right next to yours.
wesker		It's real, alright. And it's worth... more than gold. More than uranium!
rodriguez		Do we get a piece of that action?
wesker		All of you do. Anyone who comes out of this alive... gets a taste.
wesker		Anybody else see it my way?
ada		 You disgrace yourself!
toshiro		I...I want to live.
wesker		Smart. Anyone else? Valentine?
chris		And I was gonna try to disarm the bomb. This place should be destroyed! It needs to be destroyed!
wesker		Gotcha, son. It's only because of Valentine, here, that I didn't squeeze the trigger.
chris		If she's on your side... she doesn't mean shit to me. And I don't mean shit to her.
jill		Chris, please. There's only... one way to go, here .
wesker		That's right. My way!
jill		Yes, sir. Your way!
barry		You shoot. I shoot, boss.
jill		We believed in you. I believed in you. Boy, was I a sucker.
ada		Get out! Now! Or you never will!
rodriguez		So... we'll live here!  No. The landlord looks like a sonuvabitch.
ada		I TOLD YOU... TO SHOOT HIM!
jill		Everybody! OUT!
chris		 Thirteen minutes.
barry		Go.
jill		LOOK OUT!
wesker		Get me outta here, Redfield. Or so help me God, you're a dead man.
chris		Get going.
jill		Not without...
chris		MOVE!
wesker		COME BACK! RODRIGUEZ! VALENTINE! THAT'S AN ORDER !
chris		Orders don't mean shit any more, Wesker. Especially when they come from sell-out bastards like you.
wesker		B-buddy. You gotta get us out.
barry		Not sure I know how, boss. Do you? Is there some other...'need-to-know' secret for shutting down the Big Bopper, here?
wesker		No. It.. it can't be shut down.
barry		The ultimate warrior. The ultimate soldier. We'll see. How it does against a couple of hard-ass career guys, like you and me.
ada		The corridor outside... can be moved.
ada		You won't come out in the same place. But you'll find a freight loader that can be accessed with...
jill		...a blue key. I hope.
ada		No. Pot blue or green. Red.
chris		Red... overrides green.
ada		Yes.
chris		So... you could have unlocked "D" lab.
ada		I was hoping it would never be un- locked again. Go. I will see that this.. . ... is destroyed.
chris		It's destroyed. It's worthless But you're not.
ada		I helped develop it!
chris		Unwittingly. They lied to you. They lied to Marcus. They made you believe you were doing a good thing when it wasn't good at all. It was evil!
ada		Stand up? Against powers that have... ruled the world since before we were born? We will only be...eliminated. Or locked away someplace else. I'd rather die here. Knowing that the virus has died with me .
jill		What if it's already spread? You're the only one...who knew anything about it.
ada		 But, I... know so little.
chris		More than anyone else. You have... a responsibility.
jill		To a higher command. The highest.
barry		That's one helluva big pump.
wesker		An implant.
barry		From what? A fuckin' elephant?
wesker		Rhinoceros.
barry		Shit. I figured you knew more than you were telling.
wesker		I told you, we don't. W-we can't. It's unstoppable!
ada		I don't know if I can face this.
chris		Just get us upstairs. I'll take care of it from there.
ada		Alright.  Come.
ada		Doors... were left open.
ada		Step on.
jill		I don't know if it's gonna happen.
rodriguez		Come on. I been waitin' all day for somthin. like this.
chris		 You're up.
rodriguez		I'm havin' too much fun. You got a lady. I just got me. Anyway... I ain't gonna die in this rat hole. I'll make it. Get outta here.
ada		 Level "C". Have your weapons ready.
rodriguez		 Whoop-de-doo.
barry		Get under a desk, man. I'm gonna feed this thing a pineapple.
wesker		NO! It might damage the system! I've got to get this data!
barry		Forget it. Bullets don't work!
wesker		They seem to work just fine.
ada		Level "B".
rebecca		Don't see anything.
ada		Good.
ada		We're almost there. You'll have to jump off. The belt won't stop.
rebecca		Bats! There are bats in here!
ada		No. They're crows! Infected! Don't let them bite you!
rodriguez		Rats. FLYING RATS!
chris		 You alright?
rodriguez		Yeah. I'm cool. I'm... cool.
rebecca		I thought it wasn't supposed to stop.
ada		Climb out. OUT!
chris		ROSIE!?
rodriguez		I'M ALRIGHT!
chris		 Climb, Rosie!
rosie		No. I'm finished. I live here now.
chris		ROSIE, NOOOOO!
rosie		EAT ME, YOU PILE OF SHIT!
ada		Come.
chris		ROSIE ...
ada		COME! You convinced me that there were...larger matters. We're at the top. You said you'd get us out.
chris		Th-this way.
rebecca		Hell of a shit-house.
jill		The guy was a bootlegger... with a sense of humor.
chris		I hope they haven't disabled this.
laguardia		I'm goin' in.
radio man		You don't have authority.
laguardia		Fuck authority.
chris		Watch it. WATCH IIIIT!
radio		What in God's name is that thing!
laguardia		Somethin' we weren't supposed to see. Drop the ladder. And drop the Stinger.
chris		GET UP!
radio man		Catch this!
jill		Toss it to me!
jill		 We have to get out of range.
chris		No.  Circle around.
laguardia		Are there more survivors?
chris		No. Just...circle, okay? I want to...take a last look.
jill		It's... your home.
jill		I guess... we're gonna be moving.
chris		 Full throttle. Out of here, man!
****Dialogues from script :Return_of_the_Apes.txt****

will		Of course we will. You're pregnant - if the baby's born alive, we'll know it worked.
will		It's started?
will		It's to make sure we never forget where we came from.
****Dialogues from script :Revenant.txt****

fitzgerald		Likely got a splinter. Can't figure what to do without Mama here to pull it out for him.
boone		Need a doc, Captain?
henry		Gather more wood.
fitzgerald		 Shame my Pap was a broken down drunk. Else he could've bought me a Captain's job too.
henry		Glass and the others will be back with some game, Fitzgerald. Just make sure you have the fires ready.
fitzgerald		My supper's in the hands of a hermit nigger, a kid and a dummy. Hell, my belly feels full already.
bridger		But bigger than we figured. Gonna be a load to haul back to camp.
pig		Have to split it up I reckon.
glass		Yep. Bridger'll take the tail, and Pig you haul the rest.
bridger		Another one close by?
pig		Hugh?
boone		No rule says I'm the only one that's gotta gather this shit.
trapper		`REE!
glass		GET TO THE BOAT!
trapper		WAIT!
bridger		Thank you.
fitzgerald		What's the plan, Captain?
anderson		We're just floatin' farther from Fort Union.
glass		The Missouri's no good. Not if the `Ree's running it.
fitzgerald		So we just float the hell down to Mexico or wherever else this river takes us?
glass		We get ourselves safe outta range, then track another course up.
fitzgerald		Add weeks to the trip.
bridger		Better that than endin' up scalped on the side of the river.
fitzgerald		 Shut up, kid, you don't get no say in this.
henry		I understand our situation, Mr. Fitzgerald. We do like Glass said... put some distance between us and the Arikara, then chart a course to Fort Union.
pig		Reckon it's better `an lettin' the `Ree find him... take his ears... slice what's left all to shit.
henry		So we hike west to the Grand, then follow it up to Fort Union.
fitzgerald		On foot? You got any idea how long that's gonna take? It'll be winter before we get there.
anderson		Unless we come across a post... trade for some horses.
glass		No posts that far out.
fitzgerald		So if we do this, we do every step with our own feet.
henry		We make camp here for the night, then load supplies and head out for the Grand at first light.  And gather extra blankets `cause there won't be any fires.
bridger		Thank you... for what you done back there.
glass		You'd have done the same for me.
fitzgerald		You treat that Anstadt sweeter than any woman, Glass.
stubby bill		Never seen a woman that could stop a `Ree from three hundred feet.
anderson		I knew a particular big-breasted redhead in Boston that might come close.
fitzgerald		Bring it over here for me to have a look.
bridger		 You seen it before.
fitzgerald		What'd you say, kid?
bridger		 I said you shoulda already got a look when he saved you with it earlier.
fitzgerald		You're lucky you ain't a man yet.  Else that mighta nicked somethin'.
glass		Middle of workin' on it.
fitzgerald		Well you can stop workin' on it, and let me have a look like I said.
glass		Best I can tell, my place is right where I want it... on the smart end of my rifle.
fitzgerald		I'd be careful if I was you, boy.
henry		That's enough, Fitzgerald. Go sober up and get to sleep.  If you're passed out when we break camp tomorrow, I leave you here.
fitzgerald		That's the trouble with this part of the world. No mirrors. Niggers forget what color they are.
henry		Can't sleep either?
glass		Never like closin' my eyes when I'm not sure who'll be standin' over me when I open `em.
henry		I keep thinking about Boone and the others... how maybe I should've had us make camp further up river.
glass		The tracks I saw... those `Ree had been tailin' us for a while. They'd have gone as far north as it took.  You're a good man, Captain. Soon as you realize that, these others will too.
henry		Your years trappin' and guidin' out here... have you had much experience with the Arikara?
glass		Enough to try and stay outta their way.
henry		 But you know this country well enough to get us past them... up to Fort Union?
glass		I been here a long while. Whether that gets us to Union or not...
henry		What Fitzgerald said earlier... he doesn't speak for the rest.
glass		He wasn't wrong. Truth is that's what I prefer about this country... it's got no eye for the color of a man's skin.
henry		 Try to get some sleep, Hugh.
stubby bill		Shouldn't we have hit the Grand by now?
henry		We'll reach it soon enough. Glass said to keep this course.
fitzgerald		Glass said. Too bad I don't see him.
pig		That's on account he's up ahead makin' sure it's clear, and you get to keep your ears.
fitzgerald		Or he's run off and left us.
bridger		He wouldn't do that.
fitzgerald		My bet, that nigger's used to runnin'.
henry		UP AHEAD!
bridger		Christ Almighty.
henry		Glass!
pig		HUGH!
bridger		He's down here!
murphy		Oh, Jesus.
stubby bill		He's tore to pieces.
anderson		Least he took that Grizz down with him.
fitzgerald		Wished he'da done it without firing his rifle. If there wasn't no `Ree around before, there will be now.
henry		THAT'S ENOUGH!
bridger		Holy Christ, he's alive.
henry		Get me some water.
bridger		Oh, Jesus... Jesus.
henry		It's okay, Hugh.  You're going to be fine.
pig		What about me, Cap?
henry		Get down here and help me tie off these wounds best we can.
pig		It won't stop bleedin'.
henry		Shut up, Pig.  We're fixing you up, Hugh.
bridger		It's gonna be fine, Mr. Glass.
henry		Roll him over... easy.
bridger		What about the rest of him?
henry		He's losing more blood back here.  And I don't know what to do with that yet.
anderson		They're torturin' the poor bastard.
fitzgerald		And riskin' gettin' us killed in the process. Proper thing would be to end it for him quick.
anderson		`Less he could pull through.
fitzgerald		You seen what that grizz did to him. Shit, Glass'll be dead inside a hour. We all will be if he keeps screamin' like that.
bridger		What now?
henry		We wait. Does he have any kin you know of?
pig		He keeps to hisself. Never mentioned none.
henry		Go get the others. Tell `em we're making camp here for the night.
bridger		It ain't for me.
pig		I can feel some air outta his mouth. Maybe Captain sealed up his throat proper, huh?  Whatta you figure his odds are, Jim?
bridger		Long.
murphy		What that bear did to him... I didn't expect he'd last this long.
anderson		I seen a fella go a week once after a lion jumped him. Fever finally finished him off.
stubby bill		Whatta we do, Cap?
henry		We give him his chance.
fitzgerald		You ain't doin' him or us no favors, Captain, lettin' him suffer that way.
anderson		Fever's hit. Won't be long now.
fitzgerald		I seen a bad one drag on days.
fitzgerald		 We keep sittin' here watchin' him die, only gives the `Ree more chance to find us.
bridger		He's burnin', Cap. Water turns to boil as soon as it touches him.
henry		Pig, take Anderson and scout ahead. Grand should be just west of here. Find us the best route.
fitzgerald		Tryin' to buy Glass time don't make sense for the rest of us, Captain.
henry		 Get movin'.
fitzgerald		Least it's a step in the right direction.
fitzgerald		Any coyote digs that deep deserves the meal.
pig		Found it, Cap. Right where Glass had us headed.
anderson		No more than a mile or so out.
henry		We could build a litter. Haul him with us.
anderson		It's rocky and steep goin'.
pig		Marshy and thick on the other side. We could try it, but...
fitzgerald		I signed on as a trapper, not a goddamn mule.
bridger		 Shape he's in... I don't see no way he'd make bein' drug.
henry		Lay that rag over his eyes, Mr. Bridger.
bridger		But, Captain.
henry		Do it.
bridger		I'll stay with him... money or not.
pig		Same here.
henry		I can't let you stay back, Pig. Without Glass, I'll need you to scout.
fitzgerald		Two won't stand much chance against a party of `Ree, Captain, and seventy dollars won't buy me a new setta ears.
henry		A hundred then.
bridger		They can have my share too. I owe Glass that at least.
fitzgerald		That case I'll hang back with the kid. I don't mind fallin' a day or so behind for two hundred.
henry		But Glass is to be cared for until. Understood?
fitzgerald		 I'll let the young doctor do his job.
henry		The rest gather your gear.
pig		I'll see ya at Fort Union, Hugh.
henry		 As long as necessary.
bridger		I'll look after him.
fitzgerald		I'll take first watch.
bridger		Not with his rifle.
fitzgerald		Trust me, kid, he ain't gonna be needin' it tonight.
fitzgerald		You were right to protect this.
fitzgerald		 When are you gonna die, boy?
fitzgerald		Don't you ever question me, you little piss-ant.
bridger		What?
fitzgerald		Keep quiet. I was down at the creek... there's twenty of `em at least, comin' this way.
bridger		Oh, shit. Whatta we do?
fitzgerald		We run. Now.
bridger		What about Glass?
fitzgerald		He's on his own, same as us.
bridger		I can't leave him.
fitzgerald		Then I'm talkin' to a dead man.
bridger		What're you doin'? He needs that.
fitzgerald		He couldn't hold it if you tarred it to his hands.
bridger		It's his goddamn rifle! That's all he's got!
fitzgerald		And more than he'll need.
bridger		We can't leave him with nothin'.
fitzgerald		We ran the better part of six hours. Had to gain some ground on Henry and them others.
bridger		Best douse that smoke before them `Ree spot it.
fitzgerald		We put enough distance between us and them. And it's too damn cold to go without one.
bridger		All we know, they hoofed it through the night same as us.
fitzgerald		 A dozen `Ree can't make the time us two did.
bridger		It was twenty earlier.
fitzgerald		What?
bridger		When you woke me... you said you'd spotted twenty `Ree.
fitzgerald		A dozen... twenty. I wasn't in a mood to count feathers. Hell, one `Ree woulda been too many.
bridger		What was you even doin' down at the creak in the middle of the night?  I'd already brought plenty a water.
fitzgerald		Don't start questionin' me on accounta you feelin' guilty `bout leavin' your nigger buddy behind.
bridger		ANSWER ME OR I BLOW YOUR DAMN HEAD OFF!
fitzgerald		What're you askin'? Why it was you turned your back on Glass? Why you let him die to save your own sorry skin?  `Cause you was scared shitless, that's why.
bridger		The `Ree... did you see `em?  DID YOU SEE `EM?
fitzgerald		 Not a one.
bridger		I'm goin' back for him.
fitzgerald		Far as we ran all night, you couldn't find Glass with dogs and a map. And I don't believe you really want to. `Cause after leavin' him to die the first time, I doubt he'd be too happy to see you now.
spotted horse		Griz-lee.
fitzgerald		`Bout goddamn time.
fitzgerald		Twice the folks here than when we left.
bridger		We should go see Captain Henry.
fitzgerald		Far as we hiked... we got time for a drink on the company's tab.
fitzgerald		If your fat ass could get through, we didn't have no worries.
pig		 Had to be a helluva long walk for you.
bridger		I hope not.
fitzgerald		 Maybe we best go see Henry, kid. I just got a itch to spend the first of my two-hundred.
fitzgerald		I won't pretend to been his friend, but I respect any man that fights the way he done.
henry		And the grave?
fitzgerald		We had those extra days so we went deeper... covered it in rocks. To keep the scavengers off him.
henry		Any sign of hostiles?
fitzgerald		Not a one.
henry		Glad to hear you pulled your weight, Mr. Bridger. I knew you would.
fitzgerald		More than his share, Captain.
henry		Speaking of shares.
fitzgerald		Fortunate for me, it did not.
henry		Well thank you both for your courage and honor. You have done yourselves proud.
fitzgerald		He's beat hisself up most of the trip... wishin' he'da done more.
henry		We all saw the shape Glass was in. There was no more to be done.
fitzgerald		That's what I been tellin' him.
glass		 Thank you.
glass		How many suns? Ten?
boys		Tatanka Wicasa.
glass		You speak English.
spotted horse		Need words when trade with whites.
glass		Well I'm grateful for you bringing me here... havin' them care for me.  Now if you could point me which way it is you do your tradin'... with the whites.
spotted horse		 Whites. Bra-zo.
glass		Fort Brazeau? That's where I'm tryin' to get. Is it far from here?
spotted horse		Not walk. Hides soon.
glass		The men stole my rifle.
spotted horse		Red Hawk ask who kill griz-lee.
glass		Grizzly?
red hawk		Arikara.
spotted horse		He say Arikara take right ear of Sioux. Left ear of whites. Not know what they take from you.
spotted horse		Buff-A-lo Man hunt with Sioux?
three feathers		Tatanka Wicasa.
boys		Tatanka Wicasa! Tatanka Wicasa!
glass		Thank you.
spotted horse		Good hunt.
glass		Yes.
spotted horse		You. Fam-i-lee?
glass		 No.
spotted horse		No wom-an?  Wakayaja?
glass		No. Not for a long time.
glass		 Tatanka Wicasa.
glass		Nice.
spotted horse		 Nice.
fitzgerald		No... please.
spotted horse		We go.
brazeau		 We make good trades then.
glass		Good to see you again, Mr. Brazeau.
brazeau		Jesus Christ, what happened to your goddamned face?
glass		Had a tussle with a grizzly.
brazeau		And now the grizzly, he don't look so good either, eh?
glass		They looked after me for a spell. I'm on my way to catch back up with Captain Henry... at Fort Union. Needed to trade for some supplies on the Company's credit if I could.
brazeau		Oui, of course. Anything you like.
glass		We can start with this.
brazeau		You can pick up the horse at the livery in the morning.  I wish I could give you a room for the night, but...
glass		Won't be the last night I sleep on the ground.
brazeau		Take care of that face, Glass.
glass		 You stay here tonight?
spotted horse		Your people?
glass		No.
spotted horse		You come then.
glass		Fort Union.
spotted horse		You spend your life hunting enemy. Enemy wins.
glass		It will be over soon.
fitzgerald		I had enough of this cold as hell shit.
anderson		What'd you figure when ya signed on outta that St. Louis whorehouse you was workin'? That you was headin' off to paradise?
fitzgerald		I tell ya what I figured, I figured I'd be somewhere the piss wouldn't freeze before I got it outta my pecker.
bridger		Figured wrong.
fitzgerald		Waste a time to check traps in this weather... while Henry sits warmin' his ass on the stove in his office.
stubby bill		Why don't you go tell him that, Fitz? Then start your hike back to St. Louie.
fitzgerald		Shit, I walked up here, I got no problem walkin' back.
murphy		Contracted for twelve months. We all did.
fitzgerald		Henry can shove that contract up his toasty warm ass, or I'll do it for him.
anderson		Just give that fat little whore you're so sweet on a couple extra bits... she'll have you thinkin' it's Spring already.
fitzgerald		Hello? Captain?
fitzgerald		To the river, Murphy.
murphy		That you, Fitzgerald?
fitzgerald		Left my rifle down there... don't want it out all night.
murphy		That weren't too smart.
fitzgerald		Just don't take a shot at me when I come back in.
murphy		We'll see.
fitzgerald		Not that you'd hit me if you tried.
glass		 I'm Hugh Glass of...
runty man		We don't serve niggers.
glass		Of the Rocky Mountain Fur Company on my way to Fort Union.
runty man		I don't care if you was with Lewis and Clark headed for the new world. We don't serve niggers.
glass		All I need is a horse and enough supplies to...
trapper		Ice musta froze up his ears, `cause he ain't listenin' to you, Cees.
glass		...to get me to Fort Union. I can sign a draft made good by Captain Henry.
runty man		What the fuck happened to your face, boy? You try to slice all the black off?
fat trapper		Best get on your way, boy.
glass		I'm Hugh Glass of the Rocky Mountain Fur Company, and all I need is...
runty man		 Do you believe this shit?
fat trapper		Hell, I warned ya.
glass		All I need...
runty man		Shoot him, goddammit!
runty man		Shoot `em both!
runty man		Get after the son of a bitch!
fat trapper		And he did say to put it all on the Rocky Mountain tab.
stubby bill		Jesus Christ.
bridger		I'm sorry.
glass		You took everything I had... left me to die.
bridger		I was scared of dyin'.  But every day since, I've wished I had.
glass		There wasn't no `Ree that night, was there?
bridger		No.
henry		Hugh. Wait.
glass		Where's Fitzgerald and my rifle?
henry		Deserted two days ago. Along with about five hundred dollars of company money.  I wanna hear what happened.
bridger		Wait. Please!
glass		I cut the shoes loose of her, and hiked over to Fort Talbot.
stubby bill		Christ almighty.
glass		And you may hear from the fella there about a stoled horse and supplies charged to you.
henry		We'll take care of it. You should go settle in.
murphy		There's a couple fair whores next door that'll ease the miles on ya, scars or not.
anderson		Jesus, Murph.
murphy		I just meant I'd go roust one of `em for ya if you wanted.
glass		She can take the night off, but I wouldn't mind the use of her bed.
henry		 Go clear out a room. The rest head on back to bunk.
pig		I told ya I'd see ya up here. You remember that, Hugh?
glass		I do, Pig. You must have a little gypsy in ya.
pig		I'll see ya in the mornin'.
henry		Can I talk you outta what you're planning?
glass		Thank you for what you done for me... stitchin' me back together... givin' me a chance.
henry		I'm offerin' you another right now... to stay here... let this thing go.
glass		 He thinks he let me die. But he don't know that he's the one that's kept me alive... for the chance of findin' him... makin' him pay for what he done.
henry		The law will make Fitzgerald pay.
glass		You told me once that other men didn't think like him.  Do you, Captain?
murphy		He said he was goin' to get his rifle...
pig		And the Captain found the money gone.
glass		I'll make my way down river. See what turns up.
stubby bill		The kid's gone... gear and all. Musta slipped out before light.
henry		 "Every day I think about what I done. I want to tell Pig and the others the truth but am afraid what they'll think of me. I look at Fitzgerald and want to kill him but am afraid to try. I am a coward and wish he hadn't been lyin about the Ree that night. I wish they had come and kilt us both."
glass		If I run across the boy, I'll send him back your way.
henry		Fitzgerald stole five hundred dollars. Rocky Mountain Fur Company wants him too.
glass		I can do this on my own.
henry		I know you can. But maybe you won't have to.
runty man		We ain't got no food to spare, friend, if that's what you're lookin' for.
fitzgerald		Then what the hell have ya got?
runty man		Whiskey and blankets mostly. Weather's held back deliveries.
fitzgerald		Gimme a couple bottles then. Goddamn ice shredded my boat. Been walkin' for two days.
runty man		Horses ain't cheap this time a year.
fitzgerald		Whatever the price, Rocky Mountain Fur Company's good for it.
runty man		You're the second son of a bitch come in here makin' that claim. And the first one left a bad taste.
fitzgerald		That right? Well I don't know nothin' about that. Just that I need a horse.
runty man		So did this other fella. So he stole one... along with Lange's pistola.
fitzgerald		Fine then, I'll pay cash for the horse. How much?
runty man		How `bout you pay for your friend's too.
fitzgerald		Wasn't my friend.
fitzgerald		Yeah, okay. I'll collect from him. How much?
runty man		How `bout we say eighty...  ...five.
fitzgerald		You boys are leavin' me with nothin'. Better be a helluva horse.
runty man		Pick of the litter.
fitzgerald		When I see who?
runty man		The black son of a bitch that robbed me. You tell him that.
fitzgerald		Scarred up, you say... and headed up to Union?
runty man		That's what he told us. Seemed real anxious to get there too.
fitzgerald		 I'll make sure to give him the message when I find him.
henry		Hugh.
glass		Ice tore it up.
henry		What's out that direction? Talbot?
glass		And the Missouri. Doubt he'd risk the river with the `Ree. Likely grab a horse, and cross over high... take his chances goin' east against the weather. When'd you say he skipped out?
henry		Three days ago now.
glass		We best pick up our pace.
henry		This was Fitzgerald camped here?
glass		Couple nights back. But these tracks aren't all his.
henry		He's travelin' with somebody?
glass		 Came in after. Prints are smooth. Mocassins.
henry		But you figure they're `Ree.
glass		I don't figure nothin', Captain. But whoever it is, they're a good day behind Fitzgerald.
henry		You told me once you knew enough to keep away from the `Ree.
glass		I do.
henry		You figure this is smart then?
glass		You're welcome to head back, Captain.
henry		What if we find Fitzgerald... and I ask you not to do this?
glass		Don't ask me.
henry		 `Ree?
glass		Wait!
henry		So much for stayin' quiet.
henry		Guess you would've been better off on your own.
glass		We needed to pick up some time anyways.
henry		Whatta ya got?
glass		Smoke.
henry		What if it's `Ree?
glass		Then we leave `em be... meet back up here.
fitzgerald		Didn't figure an important man like you to be away from your stove on a night as cold as this, Captain. You lost?
henry		I'm here to save your life.
fitzgerald		I done told you boys... I don't need savin' by you or nobody else.
glass		You shouldn't a come.
fitzgerald		 Glass... please!
glass		I am Tatanka Wicasa! I have killed whites and I have killed Arikara and I have killed grizzly! AND I WILL KILL YOU!
****Dialogues from script :Revolutionary_Road.txt****

frank		So, what do you do?
april		I'm studying to be an actress. You?
frank		I'm a longshoreman.
april		 No, I mean really.
frank		I mean really too. Starting Monday, though, I'm doing something a little more glamorous. Night cashier at a cafeteria.
april		 I don't mean how you make money.   I mean what are you interested in?
frank		Honey - if I had the answer to that one, I bet I'd bore us both to death in half an hour.
woman		Thank God that's over...
frank		Thanks, Mrs. Givings.
frank		I'll pass it along!
milly		Frank!
frank		Hi!
milly		She's through there...!  You `bout ready for that drink?
frank		Couple of minutes!
frank		 April, sweetheart.   You were great. I mean it.
april		Hi. You about ready to leave? I've just got to get this makeup off, then we can go.
frank		Well... I guess it wasn't a triumph or anything, was it?
april		I guess not. I'll be ready in a minute.
frank		Take your time.
april		Will you do me a favor? Milly and Shep wanted us to go out with them afterwards. Will you say we can't? Say it's because of the baby sitter or something?
frank		Well, the thing is, I already said that we could. I mean, I just saw them out there and I said we would.
april		 Oh. Then would you mind going out again and saying you were mistaken? That should be simple enough.
frank		Don't you think that's a little bit rude, April?
april		Well I'll tell them myself.
frank		Okay. Okay. Take it easy. I'll tell them.
frank		I mean it, baby. You were the only person in that play.
april		Thank you.
frank		We just never should've let you get mixed up in the damned thing.
april		All right.
frank		You've studied for Christ's sake.
april		Could we sort of stop talking about it now?
frank		Sure. I just don't want you feeling bad about it, that's all. Because it's not worth it. I mean, it's bad enough having to live out here among these damn people - what'd you say?
april		I said yes. All right, Frank. Could you just stop talking now, before you drive me crazy, please?
april		No, Frank, please don't...
frank		Baby, it's okay...
april		Please don't touch me.
frank		April...
april		Why can't you...just... LEAVE ME ALONE!
frank		It strikes me, that there's a considerable amount of bullshit going on here.... And there's one or two things I'd like to clear up. Number one, it's not my fault the play was lousy. Number two, it's sure as hell not my fault you didn't turn out to be an actress, and the sooner you get over that little piece of soap opera the better off we'll both be. Number three, I don't happen to fit the role of dumb, insensitive suburban husband; you've been trying to hang that one on me ever since we moved here. Number four -
frank		What the hell are you doing?     Come back to the car.
april		No. Just let me stand here a second.
frank		April?
april		Haven't I made it clear I don't particularly want to talk about it?
frank		Okay. Jesus, I'm trying to be nice about this thing.
april		How kind of you. How terribly, terribly kind of you.
frank		Wait a minute. I don't deserve this.
april		You're always so wonderfully definite, aren't you, on the subject of what you do and don't deserve?
frank		Wait a minute!
april		Christ, I wish you'd stayed home tonight!
frank		You know what you are when you're like this? You're sick. I really mean that. You're sick!
april		And you know what you are?  You're disgusting.
frank		Oh, yeah?
april		Just because you've got me safely in this little trap, you think you can bully me into feeling whatever you want!
frank		You in a trap! You in a trap! Jesus, don't make me laugh!
april		Yes, me.  Me! Me! Me! Oh, you poor, pathetic little boy  Look at you! Look at you, and tell me how by any stretch of the imagination you can call yourself a man!
frank		Don't look at me like that, April.
april		Could we please go home now?
frank		Good morning, Jack.
jack		Nothing good about it, I assure you.
april		Oh, yes.
frank		You wanted to see me?
bandy		Came for you from Toledo this morning.
frank		Oh, right, sorry. I thought I'd taken care of that...
bandy		I'm not prepared to have this conversation again, Frank. You understand?
frank		...Absolutely, yes.
bandy		These folks in the provinces look up to us, Frank.    We need to be efficient. We can't have this kind of back and forth, and so forth. It's just not efficient. Am I right?
frank		...Absolutely, yes, yes...
jack		What was that about?
frank		Toledo. Branch manager wants a revised brochure for the conference on "The Knox 500."  "It's just not efficient."
jack		 Sounds like a real goodie.
frank		I don't even know what the Knox 500 does... Do you?
jack		Don't insult me.
frank		Now, if you'll look in the inactive file under SP-1109 you'll find copies of all the stuff we sent to the agency... and that way we can trace the thing back to its original sources.
maureen		I'm not really hungry.
frank		Good. I'll check on you later.
maureen		Oh?    How's that?
frank		I can show you the ropes. There's an art to survival at Knox. Let me show you what I mean.
maureen		Wow.
frank		Hello Mrs. Jorgensen. Frank Wheeler here. Just wanted to let you know that I've had to send Maureen Grube down to Visual Aides for me. I'll probably need her the rest of the day... Okay? Fine. You too.
maureen		I never even heard of Visual Aides.
frank		That's because it doesn't exist.
april		Hi Helen.
april		Well, thank you... You want some coffee?
april		Is there something I can do for you, Helen?
april		I'm sorry to hear that.
april		...I'm so sorry.
april		Yes.    Of course.
april		We'd love to Helen.
april		We'd love to.
frank		You know what today is?
maureen		...Monday?
frank		It's my birthday.      I'm thirty years old today.
maureen		Happy birthday!
frank		Visual Aides.
maureen		...What-a-joke.
frank		Want to hear a real joke...?
maureen		Yeah?
frank		He was a salesman in Yonkers. Once a year he used to take me into the city for lunch. It was supposed to be a special, life-advice sort of occasion.
maureen		Nice.
frank		Not really... I used to sit there and think, `I hope to Christ I don't end up like you.'
maureen		I think I kind of lost you...   Your father worked for Knox...? 
frank		How `bout some air?
frank		You ever been to Paris?
april		I've never really been anywhere.
frank		Maybe I'll take you with me.
april		Frank Wheeler?
frank		Mm?
april		I think you're the most interesting person I've ever met.
frank		Well, I guess this wasn't what you had in mind when you went to work this morning?
maureen		No.   It certainly wasn't.
frank		Sure, here.
maureen		Can I get you a drink or anything?
frank		No thanks, Maureen. Actually, I guess I'd better be cutting out, it's getting kind of late.
maureen		Gee, that's right.   Have you missed your train?
frank		It's all right, I'll get the next one.
april		Frank...
frank		Why are you all dressed up?
april		First of all, I missed you all day and I want to say I'm sorry. I'm sorry for the way I've been since that stupid play. I'm sorry for everything and... And I love you... Now wait here till I call you. Okay?
april		Frank. I have had the most wonderful idea. I've been thinking about it all day.
frank		What's all this about?
april		You know how much money we have saved...?
frank		What we get for the house...What are you talking about? Where are we going to live?
april		...Paris.
frank		You're serious?
april		Yes.   What's stopping us?
frank		What's stopping us? Well, I can think of a lot of things. For instance, what kind of a job could I possibly get?
april		You won't be getting any kind of job, because I will.
frank		Oh, right.
april		Don't laugh -- listen a minute! Have you any idea what they pay for secretarial positions in the government agencies in Europe? Embassies and those things.
frank		No, I don't.
april		I'm serious about this Frank. Do you think I'm kidding or something?
frank		No, I know, I know. I just have a couple of questions, is all. For one thing, do you mind telling me what exactly I'm supposed to be doing while you're out earning all this money?
april		Don't you see that's the whole idea? You'll be doing what you should've been allowed to do seven years ago. You'll have time, Frank. You'll have time to find out what it is that you actually want to do, and when you figure it out you'll have the time and the freedom to start doing it.
frank		Sweetheart, it's just not very realistic, is all.
april		Well, I happen to think this is unrealistic. I think it's unrealistic for a man with a fine mind to go on working like a dog year after year at a job he can't stand, coming home to a place he can't stand, to a wife who's equally unable to stand the same things.
frank		Listen: we decided to move out here. No one ever forced me to take the job at Knox. 
april		When I first met you, there was nothing in the world you couldn't do or be.
frank		I was a little wise guy with a big mouth, that's all.
april		You were not! How can you even say that?
frank		...All right... So, I'll have time. And God knows that's appealing. It's very appealing. And I mean, everything you say might make a certain amount of sense, if I had some definite talent maybe. If I were an artist or a writer.
april		But Frank, listen to me: It's what you are that's being stifled here. It's what you are that's being denied and denied and denied in this kind of life.
frank		And what's that?
april		Don't you know...?
frank		Okay.
april		Okay?
frank		Why not...? Why the hell not?
jack		Ah, Franklin. Good to see your shining face.  What's the news?
frank		I'm moving to Paris.
jack		Right.   And I'm moving to Tangiers.
frank		...Intra-company letter to Toledo... Attention B.F. Chalmers, branch manager... With regard to recent and repeated correspondence, this is to advise that the matter has been... very satisfactorily taken in hand, period, paragraph.
april		Thank you.
clerk		Good luck.
jack		And when does this noble experiment commence?
frank		September.     October at the outside.
ed		 Right, yes.
vince		 Absolutely, absolutely.
jack		But... I mean, assuming there is a true vocation waiting for you. Wouldn't you be just as likely to discover it here as there?
frank		No... I don't think it's possible to discover anything on the fifteenth floor of the Knox building, and I don't think any of you do either.
april		...All the way to... here.
jennifer		But why?
april		Well, sweetheart. It's a big world out there and we thought maybe we should go see a little bit of it.
michael		How far is it?
april		A long way. We have to take a boat ride over the sea to get there.
jennifer		I won't know anyone there.
april		I know. And neither will I. But remember when you started school? And now look how many friends you have...
frank		You'll never guess what they eat in Paris. You'll never guess...
jennifer		What?
frank		Snails.
april		And frog's legs!
shep		Buddappa banh!     Banh!   Banh!
milly		You better get changed, they'll be here soon.
shep		That what you're wearing?
milly		 Don't you like it?
shep		...No... No. You look great, doll. Guess I better haul ass.
shep		Hiya gang.
april		Oh those look great.    I'm starving!
milly		April, I can't get over it - you look like the cat who ate the canary! Do you have something to tell us? A little bit of news?
shep		 Not to pry or anything.
milly		 I'm not prying. Am I prying?    I didn't mean to.
frank		Actually, we have got some pretty important news.
april		We're going to Europe.    To Paris... To live.
milly		What?
shep		When?
milly		Why?
frank		September.
milly		But what for?
frank		What for? Because we've always wanted to. Because the kids are still young. Because it's beautiful. Shep, you tell her.
shep		...It's a great city.
milly		When did you make this decision?
april		Oh... about a week ago... its hard to remember. We just suddenly decided to go, that's all.
milly		About a week ago, and you tell us now!
april		We had to get used to the idea.
shep		So, what's the deal, Frank? You get a job over there, or what?
frank		 No. Not exactly.
shep		What do you mean, `not exactly?'
april		Frank won't be doing any kind of a job, because I will.
shep		 And what are you going to do?
frank		I'm going to study... and I'm going to read and... I suppose I'm going to finally figure out what I want to do with my life.
shep		...While she supports you?
frank		Yes. While she supports me...   At least in the beginning.
april		You wouldn't believe what they pay for secretarial work in government agencies over there. NATO and E.C.A. and those places.
frank		The cost of living is dirt cheap compared to here, so we should be all right.
april		The truth is we just need something different. 
milly		Gee, it sounds wonderful, kids. I mean it; it really sounds wonderful. We'll certainly miss you, though - won't we, sweetie? Golly.
shep		Sure.
milly		Paris.   Wow.
shep		You know what I think?
milly		Oh God, I'm so relieved. Me too... I was thinking that the whole time.
shep		What kind of man is going to sit around in his bathrobe picking his nose while his wife works all day?
milly		I don't know, Shep.   I just don't know.
shep		What is it?
milly		Nothing.   I'm just so relieved.
shep		Come on. Don't cry. Please. It's all right. It's going to be all right.
frank		Jesus, their faces! You'd think we'd told them that we were swimming up the Yangtzee river or something.
april		I felt that way once too.
frank		When?
april		The first time you made love to me.
frank		What's up?
ed		Bart Pollock is here.
vince		He's in Bandy's office.
frank		 Yeah?
ed		Looks like he wants to talk to you.
jack		Hey.   Keep my name out of it.
bandy		 Frank. How are you? You know Bart Pollock?
frank		Well, we've never met, but -
bart pollock		Glad to know you Frank.
frank		You wouldn't have believed this guy.
april		Wish I saw his face when you told him you were leaving.
frank		...Horse's ass.
april		I think this is them.
april		You're not late.
april		You didn't have to do that.
frank		The time they finish that stretch of road, they'll have to start all over again.
april		And you must be John?
john		Nice to meetcha.   Heard a lot aboutcha.
april		They're at a birthday party.     Sorry they couldn't be here.
john		Don't worry. If I had a certified lunatic coming around the house, I'd probably get the kids out of the way too.
april		It's just some sandwiches.
john		Helen's been talking it up about you people for months. 
frank		Who'd like some sherry?
john		I'd like some sherry. And I'll drink Helen's if she doesn't beat me to it.
frank		I think I can do that.
john		You a lawyer Frank?
frank		No, I'm not.
john		I could use a lawyer.
john		Pop, couldn't you just sit there and eat your wonderful egg salad, and quit horning in?
john		If he hits her with it and kills her, that's a criminal case.
john		If all he does is break the coffee table and give her a certain amount of aggravation and she decides to go to court over it, that's a civil case.
john		Ma, how about doing everybody a favor? How about shutting up!
frank		I can look into it.   Maybe recommend someone.
john		So, what do you do, Frank?
frank		I work for Knox Business Machines.
john		You design the machines?
frank		Nope.
john		Make `em, sell `em, repair `em?
frank		I sort of help sell them, I guess. I work in the office. Actually, it's sort of a stupid job. I mean there's nothing  you know, interesting about it or anything.
john		Whaddya do it for then?
john		Okay, okay, okay  I know it's none of my business. And besides, I know the answer. You want to play house, you got to have a job. You want to play very nice house, very sweet house, then you got to have a job you don't like. Anyone comes along and asks "Whaddya do it for?' he's probably on a four-hour pass from the State funny farm. All agreed...? Ma?
frank		Don't be. I agree with everything you said, John. We both do. That's why I'm quitting the job in the fall and we're taking off.
april		We're moving to Paris.
john		Did you know about this, Ma...? Wow. How do you feel about that, Ma? The nice young Wheelers are taking off!
frank		How about some fresh air, John?
april		I hear you're a mathematician.
john		You hear wrong.     It's all gone now.
april		All gone?
john		You know what electrical shock treatments are?
april		Yes.   Yes I do.
john		I've had thirty-seven.
april		How awful.
john		 `How awful...' Why, because mathematics is so `interesting?'
april		No. Because the shocks must be awful and... well, because it's awful not to be able to do what it is you want to do. I think mathematics are dull.
john		I like your girl, Frank.
frank		Me too.
john		So, what do a couple of people like you have to run away from?
frank		We're not running.
john		And what's in Paris?
april		A different way of life.
frank		So maybe we are running... We're running from the hopeless emptiness of the whole life here.
john		The hopeless emptiness? Now, you've said it. Plenty of people are on to the emptiness, but it takes real guts to see the hopelessness... Wow.
april		You know, he's the first person who seemed to know what we were talking about.
frank		That's true. Maybe we are just as crazy as he is.
april		If being crazy means living life as if it matters then I don't care if we are completely insane.  Do you?
frank		No.
april		I love you so much.
bart pollock		Tell you something, Frank. I'm a little sore at Bandy for the way he's kept you under a bushel all these years. This place okay, for you?
frank		This is just fine, sir.   Fine.
bart pollock		One thing interests me, Frank, and one thing only: selling the electronic computer to the American businessman...
frank		Well, sir, it sounds exciting.
bart pollock		Bart!
frank		Bart...
bart pollock		Can't say that I do. Relation of yours?
frank		My father. He worked at Knox almost twenty years.
bart pollock		 Earl Wheeler... Earl Wheeler...
frank		No reason you would have heard of him.
bart pollock		Well, I'm sure he was a good man.
frank		There's something I should have mentioned earlier... I'm leaving the firm. In the fall.
bart pollock		Another outfit?
frank		No, it's not another outfit --
bart pollock		Now look, Frank. Is it a question of money? Because if it is, there's no reason we can't get together on a satisfactory
frank		I appreciate that, but it's not money. It's more of a personal thing.
bart pollock		A personal thing? I see.  Frank... Let me tell you something my father told me... A man only gets a couple chances in life. If he doesn't grab `em by the balls, it won't be long before he finds himself sitting around wondering how he got to be second rate.
frank		I guess so.
bart pollock		So, do me a favor... Sleep on it. Discuss it with your wife. Because let's face it: where the hell would any of us be without our wives, anyway?
frank		Knowing what you've got, comma, knowing what you need, comma, Knowing what you can do without, dash. That's inventory control.
maureen		Oh, hi Frank. Working late?
frank		I got to dig myself out here.
maureen		I heard you were getting promoted.
frank		 Huh. Yeah, I guess so...
frank		Yeah.   Maybe.
maureen		I'll just get my coat.
jennifer		I'm going to take my doll carriage and my bear and my three Easter rabbits and my giraffe and all my dolls and my doll house.
april		I thought maybe we'd give the doll house to Madeline.
jennifer		No! I don't want to give it to Madeline.
april		I already explained to you, the big things are going to be hard to pack.
jennifer		But Madeline can have my bear and my Easter rabbits -
april		No! Just the big things. Look. Wouldn't you rather go outside and play with Michael.
jennifer		I don't feel like it.
april		You've been inside all day.
jennifer		I don't feel like it!
april		Well, I don't feel like explaining everything fifteen times to somebody who's too bored and silly to listen!
frank		What's the matter?
april		Nothing.
frank		I don't believe you. Did something happen today or what?
april		Nothing happened today that I haven't known about for days and days.
frank		What?
april		Oh God, Frank, please don't look so dense. Do you mean you haven't guessed or anything?
frank		What are you talking about?
april		I'm pregnant, that's all.
frank		What...?   Jesus.
april		Oh, Frank, I meant to wait until dinner to tell you, but I just - well, I've been pretty sure all week and today I went to the Doctor and now I can't even pretend it's not true.
frank		 Jesus... How long?
april		Ten weeks.
frank		You didn't say anything.
april		I thought... Oh, I don't know what I thought.
frank		I know you are.
april		We don't have to let this stop us. There are things we can do. Remember that girl at school I told you about...? As long as you do it before 12 weeks, it's fine.
frank		Okay.   We'll figure it out.
april		I love you Frank.
frank		...I love you too.
shep		So, Frank, how's work?   They gonna survive without you?
frank		Actually... Something kinda funny happened the other day. I did some dumb little piece of work to get myself off the hook with Bandy, and suddenly I'm The Bright Young Man.
shep		 That's always the way, isn't it?
frank		It's incredible. I knocked this thing off in a couple of minutes and now they want me to join their team of `specialist' salesmen.
shep		Morons.
frank		It'd be funny, if they weren't talking about so much damn money.
shep		 So, you tempted?
frank		 Well, it's kind of ironic, don't you think?
shep		She okay?
april		I thought you turned the job down?
frank		 Not yet... It's just an option, that's all. With the money they're talking, things could be different for us here. We could get a better place. Travel.
april		So you've made up your mind?
frank		No.   Like I said, it's an option.
april		...And supposing you're right. You make all this money and we have this interesting life here. Won't you still be wasting your life toiling away at a job you find ridiculous? Just like your father.
frank		 Maybe we let that be my business.
april		 Your business?
frank		 It's too hot for this.    I'm going to get wet.
april		You don't want to go, do you?
frank		Come on, April.   Of course I do.
april		You don't! Because you've never tried at anything. And if you don't try at anything you can't fail.
frank		What the hell do you    mean I don't try? I support you,     don't I? I pay for this house.     I work ten hours a day at a job    I can't stand.
april		You don't have to!
frank		Bullshit! I'm not happy about it. But I have the backbone not to run away from my responsibilities!
april		It takes backbone to lead the life you want, Frank.
frank		Is it alright with you if I go to the bathroom?
frank		What the hell are you going to do with this?
april		And what do you think you're going to do? You're going to stop me?
frank		You're damn right!
april		Go ahead and try!
frank		Listen. Listen to me. You do this - you do this and I swear to God I'll -
april		You'll what? You'll leave me?   Is that a threat, or a promise?
frank		When did you buy this, April?   I want to know!
april		You know you really are being melodramatic about the whole thing. As long as it's done in the first twelve weeks, it's perfectly safe.
frank		That's now April!   Don't I get a say?
april		Of course you do! It would be for you, Frank, don't you see? So you can have time. Like we talked about.
frank		How can it be for me if the thought makes my stomach turn over?
april		Then it's for me... Tell me we can have the baby in Paris, Frank. But don't make me stay here. Please.
frank		We can't have the baby in Paris.
april		Why not? I don't need everything we have here. I don't care where we live! I mean who made these rules, anyway? The only reason we moved out here was because I got pregnant. Then we had another child to prove the first one wasn't a mistake. I mean how long does it go on?
frank		All I know is what I feel. And anyone else in their right mind would feel the same way.
april		 But I've had two children.    Doesn't that count in my favor?
frank		Christ! The fact that you even put it that way! You make it sound like having children is a punishment.
april		I love my children.
frank		And you're sure about that?
april		What the hell is that supposed to mean?
frank		April, you just said our daughter was mistake. How do I know you didn't try to get rid of her, or Michael for that matter? How do I know you didn't try to flush our entire fucking family down the toilet?
april		No that's not true. Of course I didn't.
frank		But how do I know April?
april		Stop.   Please just stop, Frank.
frank		April, a normal woman, a normal sane mother doesn't buy herself a piece of rubber tubing to give herself an abortion so she can, go live out some God damn fantasy.
april		...And the new job's going to pay for that too?
frank		April if you need a shrink, it'll be paid for. Obviously.
april		...Okay. I guess there isn't much more to say, then, is there?
frank		I guess maybe it was.
april		I hope so Frank.   I really hope so.
receptionist		Thank you for waiting.   Mr. Pollock can see you now.
ed		I can't say I'm sorry.
vince		Wouldn't have been the same without you.
jack		You'd have been sorely missed in the old cubicle, I can tell you that.
frank		What?
jack		...Well, the plan always seemed a touch unrealistic, don't you think?
frank		No.   I suppose it isn't.
jack		Well, we won't be the only ones glad to hear the news. They'll be celebrating in the secretarial pool.
milly		Hey! Remember the first time you brought us here? You said, it takes a special kind of taste to enjoy Vito's Log Cabin!
shep		It's so awful it's kinda nice!
milly		That's right!
shep		At least Europe's not going anywhere.
frank		Wanna dance?
april		I don't really feel like it.
milly		I'll dance!
frank		Think she'll be okay?
milly		Oh, sure. Give us girls a couple of days and we can get over anything!
frank		 You okay?
milly		Gee...I'm afraid I'm not very...
shep		Of all the inconsiderate...
april		Look - why don't you take Milly home, then go home yourself and that would take care of both sitters. Then Shep can take me home later.
shep		All right with me.
frank		 You'll be alright?
april		Sure.
shep		I'm sorry you're not going away anymore. I know it was important to you.
april		It didn't have to be Paris.
shep		You just wanted out, huh?
april		I wanted in. I just wanted us to live again.
shep		Sure you are. You're The Wheelers. You're a terrific couple, everyone says so.
april		I saw a different life. I can't stop seeing it.  No damn use to anyone.
shep		Let me take you somewhere.
april		No. Please. Here.    Now.    In the back seat.
april		Don't say that.
shep		I mean it, I love you.
april		Please, just be quiet for a minute, then you can take me home.
frank		It's beautiful out.
april		Yes; it's lovely.
frank		You know what today is?
april		That's right.
frank		Look, this has been kind of a crazy summer. We've both been under a strain. I mean I know you're upset.
april		You know I'm not sleeping with you and you want to know why?
frank		Okay. What do you feel like talking about?
april		Would it be all right if we didn't talk about anything? Can't we just take each day as it comes, and do the best we can, and not feel we have to talk about everything all the time?
frank		I don't think I suggested we talk about everything all the time. My point was, we've both been under a strain and we ought to be trying to help each other as much as we can right now.
april		Why did you?
frank		 Baby, I don't know. I think it was a simple case of wanting to be a man again after all that abortion business. Some kind of neurotic, irrational need to prove something.
april		No. I don't mean why did you have the girl; I mean why did you tell me about it?
frank		Why don't you say what you feel?
april		I don't feel anything.
frank		In other words you don't care what I do or who I fuck or anything?
april		No; I guess that's right; I don't.
frank		Don't you see...Don't you see, I want you to care.
april		Oh, I know you do. And I suppose I would if I loved you. But you see I don't think I do anymore. And I only just figured that out. And that's why I'd just as soon not do any talking right now.
frank		Oh, now don't give me this shit! You know God damn well you love me!
april		You think so?!
frank		You know GOD DAMN WELL!
april		I'm sorry dinner's late. Can I get anyone a refill?
frank		Actually, there's been a change of plans.
frank		I thought maybe it was obvious... April's pregnant.
john		Hold it a second, Ma.
john		I'm asking the man a question. If he doesn't want to give me the answer, I'm assuming he'll have sense enough to tell me so.
frank		Suppose we just say that people anywhere aren't very well advised to have babies unless they can afford them.
john		 Okay. Okay; it's a question of money. Money's always a good reason...
john		What happened, Frank? You get cold feet, or what? You decide you're better off here after all? You figure it's more comfy here in the old Hopeless Emptiness after all, or --
john		Boy!
frank		Now look, I think that's just about enough out of you. I mean, who the hell do you think you are? You come in here and say whatever crazy God damn thing comes into your head and I think it's about time someone told you to keep your God damn -
frank		Not well, my ass! I don't give a damn if he's sick or well or dead or alive, he should keep his fucking opinions in the fucking insane asylum where they belong!
john		Big man you got there, April.
frank		You... fucking..!
john		Right... Sorry, sorry, sorry! Okay Ma? Have I said `Sorry' enough times? I am sorry, too. Damn; I bet I'm just about the sorriest bastard I know. Course, get right down to it, I don't have a whole hell of a lot to be glad about, do I?
frank		Okay, okay, don't tell me. Don't tell me; let me guess. I made a Disgusting Spectacle of Myself. Right?
april		Right.
frank		And everything that man said is True. Right? Isn't that what you're going to say?
april		Apparently I don't have to.     You're saying it for me.
frank		But you're wrong.
april		Why am I wrong?
frank		Because the man is insane. He's fucking insane! Do you know what the definition of insanity is?
april		What is it, Frank?
frank		The inability to relate to another human being. It's the inability to love.
april		The in -- the in; the inabil; the inability to --
frank		No. Wrong. You're not crazy and you do love me; that's the point.
april		But I don't. In fact I loathe the sight of you. You're just a boy who made me laugh at a party once and if you come any closer, if you touch me or anything I think I'll scream.
frank		Oh baby listen --
april		What're you going to do now? Are you going to hit me? To show how much you love me?
frank		Oh, no, don't worry, I can't be bothered! You're not worth the trouble it'd take to hit you. You're not worth the powder it'd take to blow you up. You're an empty --
april		Don't come any closer.
frank		April, listen, I --
april		Don't come any closer. Can't I even get away from you in the fucking woods?
frank		April, listen, I didn't mean that. Honestly; I didn't mean what I said.
april		Are you still talking? Isn't there any way to stop your talking? I NEED to think. Can't you see that?
frank		Please come back.     What're you doing out here?
april		Do you want me to scream again, Frank? Because I will, if you say another word! I mean it!
april		Good morning.
frank		Good morning.
april		Would you like scrambled eggs or fried?
frank		Oh. It doesn't really matter - Uh... scrambled, I guess, if it's easy.
april		Fine.   I'll have scrambled too.
frank		It's kinda nice having breakfast without the kids for a change.
april		Yes. I thought you'd probably want a good breakfast today. I mean it's kind of an important day for you, isn't it? Isn't this the day you have your conference with Pollock?
frank		 Yes. That's right, yes.
april		I imagine it is a pretty big deal; for them, anyway. What exactly do you think you'll be doing? You never have told me much about it.
frank		Haven't I? Well... I think this whole thing is about Knox getting ready to buy up one of these really big computers, bigger than the `500'. Did I tell you about that?
april		No, I don't believe you did.
frank		Well, you know -- Basically it's just a...a big, fast adding machine. Only...
april		Oh, I see. At least I think I see; yes. It's really sort of -- interesting, isn't it?
frank		Well, I don't know, it's -- yeah, I guess it is sort of interesting, in a way.
april		You should value what you do Frank. You're obviously good at it.
frank		Guess I'd better be getting started.
april		Thank you... I'm glad; I enjoyed it too.
frank		Then you don't -- You don't hate me, or anything?
april		No; of course I don't.
frank		Okay, then... So long.
april		Hello... Milly? Everything all right? My voice sounds what...?
shep		Frank? They tell you what happened?
frank		Jesus, Shep. I couldn't even understand half the things he told me. He said the fetus was out before they got her here. He said they had to operate to take out the whatdycallit, the placenta and now she's still bleeding. He said she'd lost a lot of blood before the ambulance came, and now they're trying to stop it, and he said a whole lot of things I didn't get, about capillaries, and he said she's unconscious. Jesus.
shep		How about sitting down, Frank.
frank		What the hell do I want to sit down for!
shep		Okay.   Take it easy.
frank		My God.
shep		Here, have a cigarette.
frank		She did it to herself, Shep.
shep		I'll get some coffee.
frank		No.   No.   No.
doctor		Try to sit down, Mr. Wheeler.
shep		Sit down Frank.
milly		...It was the worst experience of my life. Such wonderful people. Weren't they Shep? Poor April.
shep		Bart Pollock Associates.
milly		No. Too many memories, I think. Shep's seen him. In the city.
milly		You okay?
shep		Mm-hmm.
milly		Okay. We don't have to.     We don't have to.
****Dialogues from script :Ringu.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Rise_of_the_Guardians.txt****

jack		 Ma'am?
jack		Oh, ah, excuse me, can you tell me where I am?
jack		Hello! Hello!
north		Yes!
north		Ah, finally!
yeti		Arghbal...
north		Ach!
north		How many times have I told you to knock?
yeti		Warga blarghgha!
north		What...? The Globe?
north		Shoo with your pointy heads. Why are you always under boot?
north		What is this?
north		 Have you checked the axis? Is rotation balanced?
yeti		 Wardle bawddrel.
north		Can it be?  Dingle!
north		Make preparations! We are going to have company.
bunnymund		Ah, it's freezing.
north		Sandy, thank you for coming.
north		 I know, I know, but I obviously wouldn't have called you all here unless it was serious.
tooth		 Pitch? Pitch Black? Here?!
north		Yes! There was black sand covering the globe.
bunnymund		 What, what...what do you mean black sand?
north		And then a shadow!
bunnymund		Hold on, hold on, I thought you said you saw Pitch.
north		Well, ah, not exactly...
bunnymund		Not exactly? Can you believe this guy?
bunnymund		Yeah, you said it, Sandy.
north		Look, he is up to something very bad. I feel it, in my belly.
bunnymund		 Hang on, hang on, you mean to say, you summoned me here THREE DAYS BEFORE EASTER - because of your belly? Mate, if I did this to you three days before Christmas--
tooth		 Argentina. Priority alert! A batch of bicuspids in Buenos Aires.
north		Please. Bunny. Easter is not Christmas.
bunnymund		Here we go...
bunnymund		Look, mate, I'm dealing with perishables. Right. You've got all year to prepare.
tooth		 Pittsburg, boy eight, two molars. Saltwater taffy.
north		 Why are rabbits always so nervous.
bunnymund		And why are you always such a blowhard!
north		 Tooth! Can't you see we're trying to argue.
tooth		Sorry, not all of us get to work one night a year. Am I right, Sandy?
tooth		 San Diego, sector two! Five incisors, a bicuspid and a really loose molar on stand-by.
bunnymund		 Come on, mate, Pitch went out with the dark ages. We made sure of that - remember?
north		Aah! Man in Moon! Sandy, why didn't you say something?
north		 It's been a long time old friend! What is big news?
bunnymund		It is Pitch.
north		 Manny...what must we do?
tooth		Ah, guys, you know what this means?
north		 He's choosing a new Guardian.
bunnymund		What?! Why?
north		Must be big deal! Manny thinks we need help!
bunnymund		 Since when do we need help?!
tooth		I wonder who it's gonna be?
bunnymund		Please not the groundhog, please not the groundhog.
north		Jack Frost.
bunnymund		Ah, I take it back! The Groundhog's fine!
tooth		 Well, ah, as long he helps to ah...to protect the children, right?
bunnymund		Jack Frost!? He doesn't care about children! All he does is freeze water pipes and mess with my egg hunts. Right? He's an irresponsible, selfish...
north		Guardian.
bunnymund		Jack Frost is many things, but he is not a Guardian.
russian boy		 Aahhhhh...!
jack		 Hey wind...
jack		Take me home!
jack		Woooooohoooooooooo!
jack		SNOOOOOWWWW DAAAAYYYYYY!!!
jamie		Whoa, whoa.
jack		Huh, that looks interesting. Good book?
jack		You're welcome!
jamie		 Hey guys, wait up! Are you guys coming to the egg hunt Sunday?
caleb		Yeah, free candy!
claude		I hope we can find the eggs with all this snow!
caleb		 Stop!
claude		 No, you stop!
jamie		Whoa, it says here that they found Big Foot hair samples and DNA, in Michigan. That's like, super close!
claude		Here we go again.
jamie		You saw the video too Claude, he's out there!
caleb		That's what you said about aliens.
claude		And the Easter Bunny.
jamie		 Wow, the Easter Bunny is real!
jack		Oh he's real alright. Real annoying, real grumpy, and really full of himself.
claude		 Come on, you guys believe anything.
sophie		 Ow!
jamie		Mom! Sophie fell again!
jamie's mom		You okay, Soph?
claude		Are we sledding or what?
jamie's mom		Jamie, hat? We don't want Jack Frost nipping at your nose.
jamie		Who's Jack Frost?
jamie's mom		No one, honey. It's just an expression.
jack		 Hey.
jack		 Who's Jack Frost?
jamie		 Okay, who threw that?
jack		Well, wasn't bigfoot kiddo.
monty		Ow!
pippa		Jamie Bennett! No fair!
jamie		 You struck first!
claude		Oh!
jack		Free for all!
jack		Alright, who needs ammo?
jack		 Look at that.
cupcake		Grrrrrrrrrrrr...
pippa		Crud, I hit Cupcake.
monty		She hit Cupcake.
claude		You hit Cupcake?
claude		Oh!
caleb		Did you throw that?
monty		No.
pippa		Wasn't me.
jamie		 Hey, come on. Stop!
claude		 You can't catch me.
jack		Ooh, little slippery!
jamie		Whooaaooah!!!
kids		 Whoaaa. Jamie, watch out! Stop!
jamie		 Aha, whoa!
kids		 Jamie! Turn, turn! That's the street! What are you doing? Stop! There's traffic!
jamie		Whoa!
jack		Whoa, don't worry kid, I gotcha.
jack		Hold on. It's gonna be alright.
jamie		Ahhhh. No, no, no, no...
jack		Keep up with me kid! Take a left.
jamie		Whoa, no, no, no, no...
jack		Yeah!
jamie		Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa...
jack		There you go!
jamie		No! No!
jack		Whoa.
jamie		AAAAHHHHHHHH!
jack		Yeah!
kids		 Wow, that looks serious! Jamie! Jamie, are you alright? Is he okay?
jamie		Whoaaa! Did you guys see that? It was amazing! I slid - I did a jump and I slid under a car-ERF!!
jack		Whoops.
kids		 Ooooh!
jamie		Cool! A Tooth!
kids		 Dude, that means cash! Tooth Fairy cash! I love the Tooth Fairy!
jack		 Oh, no...
kids		 That's totally awesome. You lucky bug! Lucky!
jack		No!
jamie		I gotta put this under my pillow!
kids		 I wish I lost my tooth.
jack		Ah, wait a minute! Come on, hold on, hold on! What about all that fun we just had? That wasn't the Tooth Fairy, that was me!
kids		 I lost two teeth in one day once - remember that?! What are you gonna spend your money on? What are you gonna buy? How much do you think she's going to leave?
kids		 Let's go...I'm cooold! My ears are freezing. I can't feel my toes. Ah, it's hot cocoa time.
jack		What's a guy gotta do to get a little attention around here!
cupcake		 "Oh, I'm cold, I'm cold, I'm co- old."
jamie		-- and then BAM! The sofa hit me, and, and see?  Ah hoo hay ow!
jamie's mom		Alright you, tooth under your pillow?
jamie		Yeah. I'm ready.
jamie's mom		Now don't stay up trying to see her, Jamie, or she won't come.
jamie		But I can do it this time! You wanna help me, Soph? We can hide and see the Tooth Fairy!
sophie		 Hide, hide, hide, hide!
jamie's mom		Uh uh, straight to bed now, mister.
jamie		Mom...
jack		If there's something I'm doing wrong, can you, can you just tell me what it is?  You put me here, the least you can do is tell me, tell me why.
jack		Right on time, Sandman.
pitch		Ohhhh, I thought I heard the clippity-clop of a unicorn. What an adorable dream!
pitch		 And look. At. Her. Precious child. So sweet, so full of hope and wonder. Why, there's only one thing missing...a touch of fear.
pitch		Hahaha! That never gets old!
pitch		Feel your fear. Come on. Come on, that's right.
pitch		Yesss. What a pretty little Nightmare.
pitch		Now, I want you to go tell the others the wait is over.
pitch		Don't look at me like that, old friend. You must have known this day would come. My Nightmares are finally ready. Are your Guardians?
jack		Whoa!
bunnymund		Been a long time. Blizzard of 68, I believe? Easter Sunday, wasn't it?
jack		Bunny? You're not still mad about that...are yah?
bunnymund		Yes.
jack		Hey!
yeti		Durbha wahla.
jack		Put me down! What the...
yeti		Durtal bardla burdlew.
yeti		Dwbard urghwetee.
bunnymund		Me?  Not on your nelly. See you back at the pole.
yetis		Bwardla arghl.
jack		Ahhhhhhhhh!
tooth		 Walla Walla, Washington. We've got a trampoline mishap at 1340 Ginger Lane.
north		Quiet.
north		Hey, there he is! Jack Frost!
jack		Wow, you gotta be kidding me.
jack		Hey, hey. Whoa, put me down.
north		I hope the yetis treated you well?
jack		Oh, yeah. I love being shoved in a sack and tossed through a magic portal.
north		Oh, good! That was my idea! You know Bunny, obviously.
jack		Obviously.
north		And the Tooth Fairy?
tooth		Hello, Jack. I've heard a lot about you. And your teeth.
jack		My, my what?
tooth		 Oh, they really do sparkle like freshly fallen snow.
tooth		Girls, pull yourselves together... Let's not disgrace the uniform.
north		And Sandman.  Sandy! Sandy! Wake up!
jack		Hey! Ho! Anyone wanna tell me why I'm here?
jack		That's not really helping. But thanks, little man.  I musta done something really bad to get you four together.
jack		Am I on the naughty list?
north		 On naughty list? You hold record! But no matter. We overlook. Now we are wiping clean the slate.
jack		How come?
bunnymund		 Ah, good question.
north		How come? I tell you how come! Because now...you are Guardian!
jack		What are you doing! Get, get that offa me!
north		This is the best part!
jack		Huh?
jack		What makes you think I want to be a Guardian?
north		Of course you do!  Music!
jack		No music!
jack		Look, this is all very flattering, but ah...you don't want me. You're all hard work and deadlines, and I'm snowballs and fun times. I'm not a Guardian.
bunnymund		Yeah, that's exactly what I said!
tooth		Jack...I don't think you understand what it is we do.
tooth		Each of those lights is a child.
north		A child who believes. And good or bad, naughty or nice, we protect them.  Tooth...fingers out of mouth.
tooth		 Oh, sorry. They're beautiful.
north		Okay, no more wishy-washy! Pitch is out there doing who knows what!
jack		 You mean the Boogeyman?
north		Yes! When Pitch threatens us, he threatens them as well.
jack		All the more reason to pick someone more qualified!
north		Pick? You think we pick? No, you were chosen like we were all chosen. By Man in Moon.
jack		 What?
tooth		Last night, Jack. He chose you.
bunnymund		Maybe.
jack		The Man in the Moon, he talks to you?
north		You see, you can not say no. It is destiny.
jack		But why, why wouldn't he tell me that himself?  After 300 years this is his answer? To spend eternity like you guys cooped up in some, some hideout thinking of, of new ways to bribe kids? No no, that's not for me. No offense.
bunnymund		How is that not offensive?
bunnymund		You know what I think? I think we just dodged a bullet. I mean, what's this clown know about bringing joy to children anyway?
jack		Uhh, you ever hear of a snow day? I know it's no hard-boiled egg, but kids like what I do.
bunnymund		But none of 'em believe in you.  Do they? You see, you're invisible, mate. It's like you don't even exist.
tooth		Bunny! Enough!
jack		No, the kangaroo's right.
bunnymund		 The, the what -- what'd you call me? I am not a kangaroo, mate.
jack		Oh. And this whole time I thought you were. If you're not a kangaroo, what are you?
bunnymund		I'm a bunny. The Easter Bunny. People believe in me.
north		 Jack. Walk with me.
jack		It's nothing personal, North. What you all do, it's just, it's not my thing.
north		Man in Moon says it is your thing. We will see!
jack		Slow down, wouldja? I've been trying to bust in here for years, I want a good look.
north		 What do you mean, "bust in?"
jack		Oh, don't worry, I never got past the yetis.
yeti		Rwwarrrrrr.
jack		Oh, hey Phil.
north		Keep up, Jack! Keep up!
jack		Whoa!  I always thought the elves made the toys.
north		 We just let them believe that.
north		Very nice! Keep up good work!
north		 I don't like it. Paint it red.
north		Step it up, everybody.
north		Fruit cake?
jack		Ah, no, thanks.
north		Now we get down to tacks of brass!
jack		 Tacks of brass?
north		Who are you, Jack Frost? What is your center?
jack		My center?
north		If Man in Moon chose you to be a Guardian, you must have something very special inside.
north		Hmmmm?
jack		You are downright jolly.
north		Ah, but not just jolly...
jack		There's a tiny wooden baby?
north		Look closer. What do you see?
jack		You have big eyes?
north		Yes! Big eyes. Very big. Because they are full! Of wonder! That is my center. It is what I was born with. Eyes that have always seen the wonder in everything!
north		Eyes that see lights in the trees, and magic in the air!
north		This wonder is what I put into the world, and what I protect in children.  It is what makes me a Guardian. It is my center. What is yours?
jack		 I don't know.
bunnymund		We have a problem, mate! Trouble at the Tooth Palace.
jack		North, North! I told you, I'm not going with you guys! There is no way I'm climbing into some rickety old...
jack		...sleigh.
jack		Whoa!
north		 Hey! Moi deti, moi deti. Quiet, quiet.
jack		Okay, one ride, but that's it.
north		Everyone loves the sleigh.
bunnymund		I think my tunnels might be faster, mate. And um, and safer.
north		Ah, get in.  Buckle up!
bunnymund		Whoa, whoa, whoa, where are the bloody seatbelts?!
north		 That was just expression!
north		Are we ready?
north		Good! Let's go! Clear!  Hyah!
north		Out of the way!
north		Hyah!
bunnymund		Ohhhhhh no!
bunnymund		 Slow down, slow down!
north		I hope you like the loopty loops!
bunnymund		 I hope you like carrots.
north		Here we go!
jack		WOOO-HOOOOOO!!!!!!
north		Klasno!
jack		 Whoa!
jack		Hey, Bunny--
jack		Check out this view-- EEEYAAAAGGHGHH!
jack		Awww...you do care.
bunnymund		Ah, rack off you bloody show pony!
north		Hold on everyone, I know a shortcut.
bunnymund		Oh strewth, I knew we should have taken the tunnels.
north		I say, Tooth Palace.
north		Hyah!
north		What!?
north		What are they!?
bunnymund		Whoa!
jack		They're taking the tooth fairies!
jack		Hey little Baby Tooth, you okay?
north		Here, take over!
bunnymund		Huh?
jack		Hyah!
north		Yah!
bunnymund		They're stealing the teeth!
north		Jack, look out!
jack		Aaaahhhh!
north		Tooth! Are you alright?
tooth		They, they took my fairies! And the teeth! All of them! Everything is gone! Everything.
tooth		Oh thank goodness! One of you is alright!
pitch		The Big Four, all in one place. I'm a little star-struck.  Did you like my show on the globe, North? Got you all together, didn't I?
tooth		Pitch, you have got thirty seconds to return my fairies!
pitch		You'll stick a quarter under my pillow?
north		Why are you doing this?
pitch		Maybe I want what you have. To be believed in.
pitch		Maybe I'm tired of hiding under beds.
bunnymund		Maybe that's where you belong.
pitch		Ah, go suck an egg, rabbit!
jack		We're not.
pitch		Oh good.
pitch		A neutral party. Then I'm going to ignore you. But, you must be used to that by now.
bunnymund		Pitch! You shadow sneaking rat- bag! Come here!
tooth		Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh!
pitch		 Whoa! Hey, easy, girl. Easy.
pitch		Look familiar, Sandman? Took me a while to perfect this little trick. Turning dreams into Nightmares.
pitch		Don't be nervous, it only riles them up more. They smell fear you know.
bunnymund		What fear? Of you!? No one's been afraid of you since the Dark Ages!
pitch		 Oh, the Dark Ages.
pitch		Oh look, it's happening already.
jack		What is?
jack		What's going on?
tooth		They, they don't believe in me anymore.
pitch		Didn't they tell you, Jack? It's great being a Guardian -- but there's a catch. If enough kids stop believing, everything your friends protect - wonder, hopes and dreams - it all goes away. And little by little, so do they.
pitch		No Christmas, or Easter, or little fairies that come in the night. There will be nothing. But fear and darkness and me! It's your turn not to be believed in!
north		He's gone.
jack		I'm sorry, about the fairies.
tooth		 You should've seen them. They put up such a fight.
jack		Why would Pitch take the teeth?
tooth		It's not the teeth he wanted. It's the memories inside them.
jack		 What do you mean?
tooth		That's why we collect the teeth, Jack. They hold the most important memories of childhood.
jack		My memories?
tooth		From when you were young. Before you became Jack Frost.
jack		 But, I wasn't anyone before I was Jack Frost.
tooth		Of course you were. We were all someone before we were chosen.
jack		What?
north		 You should've seen Bunny.
bunnymund		Hey, I told you never to mention that!
jack		That night at the pond...I just, why I assumed...Are you saying, are you saying I had a life before that? With a home? And a family?
tooth		You really don't remember?
jack		All these years, and the answers were right here. If I find my memories, then I'll know why I'm here.  You have to show me.
tooth		I...I can't, Jack. Pitch has them.
jack		Then we have to get them back!
tooth		Oh no!
north		No! No! No such thing as too late!  Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Idea!! HAHH!!
tooth		What?
north		We get teeth! Children keep believing in you!
tooth		We're talking seven continents! Millions of kids!
north		Give me break! You know how many toys I deliver in one night?
bunnymund		And eggs I hide in one day?
north		And Jack, if you help us, we will get you your memories.
jack		I'm in.
north		 Quickly! Quickly!
bunnymund		Here we go, here we go...
jack		Hop to it rabbit, I'm five teeth ahead!
bunnymund		Yeah right, look, I'd tell you to stay outta my way, but really what's the point -- because you won't be able to keep up anyway.
jack		Is that a challenge, cottontail?
bunnymund		Oh, you don't wanna race a rabbit, mate.
north		A race? Is it a race??
tooth		Four bicuspids over there! An incisor two blocks east! Is that a molar? They're EVERYWHERE!
tooth		Ow!
jack		Ah, you okay?
tooth		Fine...sorry, it's been a really long time since I've been out in the field.
jack		How long is a long time?
tooth		Ah, four hundred forty years...give or take.
jack		Hmm...
north		TWINS  Yipa!!
bunnymund		Jackpot!
bunnymund		Looks like you're a bit of a brumby, hey mate.
north		 Is piece of pie!
bunnymund		Ow!
north		 That's my tooth! Sandy! Sandy!
tooth		Whoa, whoa, whoa! Take it easy there, champ! He's one of us! Part of the European division.  Ca va?
bunnymund		Huh?
bunnymund		Crikey!
jack		 Yes!
jack		No!
bunnymund		Haha! Ho, ho, ho!
tooth		Wow! You guys collect teeth and leave gifts as fast as my fairies.
pitch		The lights...why aren't they going out?
pitch		They're collecting the teeth?
pitch		Oh pipe down, or I'll stuff a pillow with you!
pitch		Fine, have your last hurrah. For tomorrow, all you pathetic scrambling will be for nothing.
jack		 Kids, huh?
tooth		This was always the part I liked most - seeing the kids.  Why did I ever stop doing this?
jack		It's a little different up close, huh?
tooth		Thanks for being here, Jack. I wish I had known about your memory, I could've helped you.
jack		Yeah, well, look let's just get you taken care of. Then it's Pitch's turn, huh?
north		Here you are!
tooth		SSHHHHHHHH!!
north		Oh, what gives slowpokes!?
north		How you feeling, Toothy?
tooth		Believed in.
north		 Haha! That's what I want to hear.
north		SSSHHHHHHHHH!!!
jack		You think I need help to beat a bunny? Check it out, Peter Cottontail.
bunnymund		You call that a bag of choppers?  Now that's a bag of choppers.
north		Gentlemen! Gentlemen! This is about Tooth. It's not a competition! But if it was --  I win. YEEEEEHAAAHH!
tooth		Surprise!  We came!
jack		He can see us?
bunnymund		Most of us.
tooth		Shhh! You guys, he's still awake.
bunnymund		Sandy! Knock him out!
jamie		Huh?
bunnymund		With the Dreamsand, ya gumbies.
jamie		No, stop that's the Easter Bunny. What are you doing, Abbey? Down!
bunnymund		Alright, nobody panic.
jack		 But that's a um, that's a greyhound. Do you know what greyhounds do to rabbits?
bunnymund		I think it's a pretty safe bet he's never met a rabbit like me -
bunnymund		Crikey.
jamie		Stop! Sit!
jamie		Down girl, down!
north		Sandy, Sandy!
north		Ah!
tooth		Hey, this is not proper Tooth Fairy behavior!
bunnymund		Oh no.
north		Candy canes...
jamie		Whoaaaaaaaaaa!
jack		Whoops...
jack		Oh, I really wish I had a camera right now.
sophie		Pretty!
sophie		Bunny! Hop! Hop! Hop!
sophie		Ow!
north		Whuh-huh...?
jack		Wahooo!  Haha! Yes!
jack		Waaahahoooo!
jack		 HAAAH! I got it!
jack		Sandy! Sandy, did you see that?!? Look at this thing!
pitch		Frost?
pitch		You know, for a "neutral party" you spend an awful lot of time with those weirdos.  This isn't your fight, Jack.
jack		You made it my fight when you stole those teeth.
pitch		Teeth? Why do you care about the teeth?
pitch		 Now this is who I'm looking for--
pitch		Whoa--??
jack		Remind me not to get on your bad side.
pitch		 Okay, easy! You can't blame me for trying, Sandy. You don't know what it's like to be weak and hated. It was stupid of me to mess with your dreams. So I'll tell you what-
jack		You take the ones on the left, I'll take the ones on the right?
pitch		Boo!
north		Ah!
bunnymund		Get outta my warren!  Huh?
north		Ha. Ha. Ha. Come on!
jack		Aaaaaaaah!
bunnymund		 You might want to duck.
jack		We gotta help Sandy!
north		Hyah!
jack		Noooo!
north		Jack!
pitch		Hahahahaha!...Don't fight the fear, little man.
north		Hurry, hurry!
pitch		I'd say sweet dreams, but there aren't any left.
north		Sandy...
jack		No...NOOOOOO!!!!
jack		Ahhhhhh!!!!!
pitch		AAAHH!!!!
north		Jack!
tooth		Jack, how did you do that?
jack		 I, I didn't know I could.
pitch		Finally! Someone who knows how to have a little FUN!
north		Are you alright?
jack		I just, I wish I could've done something.
north		Done something? Jack, you stood up to Pitch. You saved us.
jack		But Sandy wo--
north		 Would be proud of what you did.
jack		But how can I know who I am, until I find out who I was?
north		You will. I feel it, in my belly.
tooth		Look how fast they're going out.
jack		 It's fear. He's tipped the balance.
bunnymund		 Easter is tomorrow and I need your help. I say we pull out all the stops and we get those little lights flickering again!
north		Bunny is right.  As much as it pains me to say old friend, this time Easter is more important than Christmas!
bunnymund		Hey! Did everyone hear that?!
north		We must hurry to the Warren. Everyone, to the sleigh!
bunny		Ohh no, mate. My warren my rules. Buckle up.
north		Shostakovich!
north		 "Buckle up." Is very funny.
bunnymund		Welcome to the warren--
bunnymund		Something's up.
bunnymund		Ahhhh!
jack		Sophie?
sophie		Elf, elf, elf!
bunnymund		What is SHE doing HERE!!?
north		 Ah, snow globe.
bunnymund		Crikey! Somebody do something!
jack		Don't look at me, I'm invisible, remember?
tooth		 It's okay little one.
sophie		 Pretty!
tooth		Awww! You know what, I got something for you. Here it is.  Look at all the pretty teeth with little blood and gum on them.
jack		 Blood and gums? When was the last time you guys actually hung out with kids?
sophie		Peek-a-boo.
north		We are very busy bringing joy to children! We don't have time...  ...for children.
jack		If one little kid can ruin Easter, then...we're in worse shape than I thought.
sophie		Weeee! Weee, weee, weee!
bunnymund		You wanna paint some eggs? Yeah?
sophie		Okay!
bunnymund		Come on then!
north		Rimsky Korsakov! That's a lot of eggs.
jack		Uh, how much time do we have?
sophie		Weeeeee!
bunnymund		Woooohoooo!
north		 Single file!
north		Okay, that's little strange.
bunnymund		Naw, mate --
bunnymund		There will be springtime! On every continent! And I'm bringing hope with me!
bunnymund		Too Christmas-y, mate, paint `em blue.
jack		Not bad.
bunnymund		Not bad yourself.
jack		Look, I'm sorry about that whole, you know, the "kangaroo" thing.
bunnymund		It's the accent, isn't it?
bunnymund		Ah, poor little ankle-biter. Look at her, all tuckered out.
tooth		I love her!
tooth		I think it's time to get her home.
jack		How about I take her home?
tooth		Jack, no! Pitch is--
jack		--no match for this. 
bunnymund		Which is why we need you here, with us.
jack		Trust me, I'll be quick as a bunny.
jack		We should get back.
jack		That voice, I know that voice...
jack		Don't worry, there's still time.
jack		 I have to find out what that is.
jack		 I'm gonna get you out of here, just as soon as I --
jack		 As I can --
jack		Afraid?
pitch		Maybe not. But you are afraid of something.
jack		You think so, huh?
pitch		I know so. It's the one thing I always know.
pitch		Well fear not, for the answer to that...
pitch		Do you want them, Jack? Your memories?
pitch		...in this little box.
pitch		Why did you end up like this? Unseen. Unable to reach out to anyone.  You want the answers so badly. You want to grab them, and fly off with them. But you're afraid of what the Guardians will think.
pitch		You're afraid of disappointing them.  Well let me ease your mind about one thing. They'll never accept you. Not really.
jack		 Stop it! Stop it!
pitch		After all, you're not one of them.
jack		You don't know what I am!
pitch		Of course I do. You're Jack Frost. You make a mess wherever you go. Why, you're doing it right now.
jack		What did you do?
pitch		More to the point Jack, what did you do?
jack		Baby Tooth!
jack		No.
british kids		 There are no eggs. There's none anywhere. I give up. Come on, let's go. I don't understand.
british girl		Maybe he just hid them really well this year.
british boy		I checked everywhere! There's nothing!
bunnymund		 Yes there is! There is! I mean these aren't my best lookin' googies, but they'll do in a pinch!
british girl		I can't believe it.
bunnymund		I know.
british girl		There's no such thing as the Easter Bunny.
bunnymund		What?
bunnymund		No! Wrong! Not, not true! I'm right in front of ya, mate!
british kids		 There's no such thing. I know.
bunnymund		They don't see me.  They don't see me.
jack		I was...it's...
tooth		Where's Baby Tooth?  Oh Jack, what have you done?
north		That is why you weren't here?
jack		No, listen, listen...I'm sorry. I didn't mean for this to happen.
jack		 What?
bunnymund		We should never have trusted you!  And now it's gone.
jamie		Whoaaa, whoa, whoa...aaaah!
jamie		Let's check the park again.
caleb		Really?
claude		 For what, the Easter Bunny?
jamie		Guys, I told you - I saw him! He's way bigger than I thought, and he's got these cool boomerang-things-
caleb		Grow up, Jamie.
claude		 Ah man, seriously.
jamie		What's happened to you guys?
caleb		It was a dream. You should be happy you still get dreams like that and not...
cupcake		 Nightmares.
pippa		Forget it, Jamie. There's just no Easter this year.
jamie		He really is real!
jack		You don't understand anything!
pitch		 No? I don't know what it's like to be cast out?
jack		In me?
pitch		Yes! Look at what we can do!
jack		 Pitch black...
pitch		And Jack Frost too. They'll believe in both of us.
jack		No, they'll fear both of us. And that's not what I want.
pitch		Very well. You want to be left alone? Done. But first...
jack		Baby Tooth!
pitch		The staff, Jack.
jack		 Alright, now let her go.
pitch		No. You said you wanted to be alone.  So be alone!
jack		No!
jack		Baby Tooth!
jack		You alright?
jack		Sorry, all I can do is keep you cold.
jack		Pitch was right - I make a mess of everything.
jack		Hey?
jack's mother		Come on Jack, you can't have fun all the time.
jack's sister		Jack, get down from there!
jack's mother		Be careful.
jack		 We will.
jack		 It's okay. It's okay. Don't look down, just look at me.
jack's sister		Jack, I'm scared.
jack		I know, I know...but you're gonna be alright. You're not gonna fall in. We're gonna have a little fun instead.
jack's sister		No we're not!
jack		Would I trick you?
jack's sister		 Yes! You always play tricks!
jack		 Well, alright. Well, not, not this time. I promise. I promise, you're gonna be...you're gonna be fine.
jack		You have to believe in me.
jack		Alright...
jack		That's it, that's it...two...
jack		Three.
jack		Whoa...
jack's sister		Jack!
jack		Did you -- did you see that?
jack		It -- it was me! I had a family! I had a sister!
jack		I saved her!
jack		 I'm, I'm a Guardian.
jack		We have to get out of here.
jack		Come on Baby Tooth! I owe you one.
jack		Come on, let's go.
jack		The lights...
pitch		You're all free to go! We won't be needing any Christmas toys this year, thank you! Nor ever again!
jack		They're all going out...
pitch		Only six left! Six precious children who still believe in the Guardians with all their h--  TWO!
pitch		 One.
jack		Jamie!
jamie		Okay look, you and I are obviously at what they call a crossroads, so here's what's gonna happen -
jamie		 I've believed in you for a long time, okay? Like my whole life in fact. So you kinda owe me now.
jamie		 I knew it.
jamie		 Huh?
jamie		He's real.
jamie		Whoa...
jamie		Whoa!
jamie		Snow?
jamie		 Jack Frost?
jack		 Did he just say--?
jamie		Jack Frost.
jack		 You said...
jamie		Jack Frost.
jack		That's right! But-but that's me! Jack Frost! That's my name! You said my name!
jack		Wait, can you hear me?  He sees me. He sees me!
jamie		You just made it snow.
jack		I know!
jamie		In my room.
jack		I know!
jamie		You're real?
jack		Yeah! Who do you think brings you all the blizzards and snow days, and you remember when you went flying on that sled the other day?!
jamie		That was you?
jack		That was me!
jamie		Cool!
jack		Right?!
jamie		But what about the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy I mean--
jack		Real-real-real! Every one of us is real!
jamie		I knew it!
jamie		Um...Jack Frost.
north		Ah, moi deti! Come back!
tooth		North! Are you okay?
north		Is official. My powers are kaput.
tooth		Look!  Jack!
tooth		 Jack--!
jack		You okay?
north		What are you doing here?
jack		Same as you.
north		The last light!
jamie		 Wow! It is you! I mean it is you! I knew it wasn't a dream.
north		Jack! He sees you!
jack		Wait, but, where's Bunny?
north		Losing Easter took its toll on all of us. Bunny most of all.
jack		Oh...no...
jamie		 That's the Easter Bunny?
bunnymund		Now somebody sees me! I mean, where were you about an hour ago, mate?
jamie		What happened to him? He used to be huge and cool! And now he's cute.
bunnymund		Oh, that's good.
jamie		No! Actually he told me you were real. Just when I started to think that maybe you weren't.
bunnymund		He made you believe? In me?
jack		 Get Jamie out of here.
north		Be careful, Jack!
pitch		Jack Frost! Let's end this, shall we?
pitch		That little trick doesn't work on me anymore.
bunnymund		Quick, this way this way!
jamie		Jack!
north		That was good try, Jack! A for effort!
jack		 He's stronger. I can't beat him.
pitch		Very well. There are other ways to snuff out a light.
bunnymund		If you want him, you're gonna have to go through me!
pitch		 Look how fluffy you are! Would you like a scratch behind the ears?
bunnymund		Don't you even think about it!
pitch		I can't tell you how happy it makes me to see you all like this. You look awful.
jamie		Jack, I'm scared.
jack		We're gonnna have a little fun, instead.  That's it. That's my center.
pitch		So what do you think, Jamie? Do you believe in the Boogiema...
jack		Now let's go get your friends.
jack		Yeah! Come on!
jamie		Whoa! Cool!
pippa		Jamie, how are you doing that?!
jamie		Jack Frost! Come on, we need your help!
pippa		Hey is, is that?
claude		Huh?!
bunnymund		Happy Easter!
tooth		Don't forget to floss!
claude		Cupcake?
claude		 Yeah!
caleb		The Easter Bunny's real!
claude		And Santa!
monty		Whoa, yeaaaaaaaah!!!  Ahhhhhhhhhhhh!
pitch		You think a few children can help you? Against this!
jack		They're just bad dreams, Jamie.
bunnymund		And we'll protect you, mate.
pitch		Aww, you'll protect them.  But who will protect you?
jamie		I will.
cupcake		I will.
pippa		And me.
monty		 I'll try.
pitch		Still think there's no such thing as the boogeyman?
jamie		I do believe in you. I'm just not afraid of you.
kids		 Whoa...whoaaaa!
cupcake		 Yeah, Tooth Fairy! Whooaaa!
monty		 Whoa, yeah!
pitch		No! Get them!
bunnymund		Oh yeah, come on, come on!
bunnymund		I'm just a bunny!
caleb		 Whoa!
bunnymund		 Come on! Wooooohoooo!
cupcake		Let's get `em!
kids		Aaaaaahhhhhh!
cupcake		 Come on guys, we can do it!
bunnymund		 All yours, mate.
jack		Thanks, Tooth!
bunnymund		 Ho, ho, HO!
north		Hyah!  Wrong roof.
caleb		Look at that!
jamie		 I know what we have to do! Guys, come on!
jack		It's over Pitch! There's no place to hide.
bunnymund		Jack, look out!
kids		 Man, this is so cool! Yeah, alright! Wahoo! Wow!
north		Welcome back, old friend!
jack		 Sandy.
tooth		Oh, Sandy. You're alright!
bunnymund		Sandy, come here!
jack		Yeah!
bunnymund		Mate, you are a sight for sore eyes!
sophie		Pretty!
cupcake		Whoa...
monty		 Yeah!
claude		 Oh yeah? Bring it on!
north		Your center?
jack		It took awhile, but I figured it out.
north		 Bunny, think fast!
pitch		 No.
north		Leaving the party so soon?
tooth		You didn't even say goodbye.
pitch		A quarter?
tooth		And that's for my fairies.
pitch		 You can't get rid of me! Not forever! There will always be fear!
north		So what? As long as one child believes, we will be here to fight fear!
pitch		Really? Then what are they doing here?
north		They can't be my Nightmares, I'm not afraid.
jack		Looks like it's your fear they smell.
pitch		Ahhh, no....AAAAAHHHHHH!!
north		Are you ready now, Jack?  To make it official.
jack		I will.
north		Then congratulations, Jack Frost - for you are now and forevermore...a Guardian.
kids		 Oh man! Woo! Yeah, Jack! Yeah, Jack! Yeah! Wooo!
north		 Yippa!
bunnymund		 Yeah! Wooo! Good job, mate. Good job!
kids		 Alright! Yeah! Go, Jack! Alright! Woo. Alright!
north		Klasno!
bunnymund		 That's my boy! Woo!
kids		 Alright Jack. Yeah! Awesome!
tooth		Keep it together, girls.
kids		 Jack! You did it Jack! Wooo! You're in the Guardians! Yeah, Jack! Yay! Yeah! You earned it! You're Jack Frost! Yay! Awesome, yay!
caleb		 You guys, look!
monty		 That's Santa's sleigh.
kids		 Wow, it's real. That is wicked! Whoa, that was awesome! Ohh...can you believe this? Whoa, did you guys see that? That's awesome! Wow! Whoa!
bunnymund		 Everyone loves the sleigh.
kids		 Wow! Look at that! So totally insane!
north		Time to go.
kids		 Whoa! It's beautiful. Wow, that was awesome!
bunnymund		Happy Easter ya little anklebiter. I'm gonna miss yah.
sophie		Bye, bye, bunny.
jamie		You're leaving? But, what if Pitch comes back?
jack		Hey, hey, slow down, slow down. You telling me you stop believing in the moon when the sun comes up?
jamie		 No.
jack		Okay, well do you stop believing in the sun when clouds block it out?
jamie		 No.
jack		We'll always be there, Jamie. And now...we'll always be here.  Which kind of makes you a Guardian too.
kids		 I can't keep my eyes open. I think I gotta go home. Let's go home. What time is it? I'm sleepy.
jamie		Jack!
north		Hyah!
kids		 Woooo! Yeah! Yay!
****Dialogues from script :Rise_of_the_Planet_of_the_Apes.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Road.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Robin_Hood__Prince_of_Thieves.txt****

first draft		Trilogy Entertainment Group in association with:                    July 10, 1990 WARNER BROS. INC.                        1990 4000 Warner Boulevard                   WARNER BROS. INC. Burbank, California 91522               All Rights Reserved
sunset		The glowing orb ripples like a blood-red eye.
2.		CONTINUED: ROBIN No!... I took the bread. PETER That's not true. ROBIN They're not interested in truth. You are too weak, Peter. You would not live through it. The Interrogator stares into Robin's eyes. INTERROGATOR Sacrifice for the weaker? How noble... As you wish... Cut off this one's hand as well!... But first... He indicates an Arab prisoner, who is dragged forward. His struggling hand is laid on the executioner's block. INTERROGATOR Show them the courage of Allah. The prisoner's face braces for the pain. A red-hot scimitar flashes down. The hand flips into a basket. Twitching. Robin is next. His composure fails. He flops to his knees, crying. The Interrogator laughs. The jailers unlash the thongs on Robin's hand. They stretch it out, forcing it down. Robin goes limp, sobbing. Peter catches his eye... Robin winks. The scimitar. Drawn from the coals. Spitting flame. Arcs down. Robin is suddenly galvanized. ROBIN And this is English courage. He hurls his holders aside. Swings upward, driving his fast into the executioner's throat. Grabs the sword. Slash. His thongs melt like butter. A jailer leaps at him. Steaming, the scimitar slices into the man's chest. Despite his bindings, Peter wrestles the Interrogator. Knife pressed to his throat, Peter is forced against the furnace. At the last second, he flips the man into the fire. Screaming. PETER That's for five years of hell. 
3.		CONTINUED: A jailer aims a scalding blade at Robin's back. VOICE 
4.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Why should we trust you? SARACEN If you don't, you are dead men. ROBIN He makes a point. The door bursts open.    More guards rush in. ROBIN A good point. He slashes the man free.
peter		Robin! ROBIN Whatever blood is in his veins, he does not deserve to die here. SARACEN This way! He beckons them to the back.     A hidden door leads into a tunnel.
saracen		You are fast, my friend. ROBIN Five years I've waited for the smell of free air. That makes a man fast. Guards drop down from above, carrying torches.    Blocking the way. SARACEN You will need to be yet faster. A narrow opening to their left... they splash through. Half running, half crawling in the dank water. Fire arrows land around them. The orange smoke is choking. 
5.		CONTINUED: SARACEN Poison air.   Hold your breath. Flames illuminate the walls, alive with a loathsome mass of crawling slime. Peter falls. A pursuer descends on him, thrusting a blazing torch at his face. The Saracen intercepts the blow. Grabs the man's neck, SNAPPING it with one mighty twist. PETER  Thanks. I misjudged you. SARACEN Save your breath.
6.		CONTINUED: Swoosh. An arrow pierces through Peter's chest -- fired from the prison wall. He reels... Robin leads him under the wall for protection. Shouts of alarm. Soldiers approaching. ROBIN Come, Peter.    We must hurry. Raising his sword, Peter faces the oncoming soldiers. PETER It is mortal.    Leave me. ROBIN Hold on to my shoulder.
7.		DESERTED ALLEY - LATER Robin and the Saracen catch their breath. ROBIN Farewell, friend. God speed you on your way. SARACEN Our way is together. With the speed of Allah. He grins.    This strange man has a sense of humor. ROBIN I go to England.
saracen		Then I go to England. ROBIN England?   Why? SARACEN You saved my life. I must stay with you until I save yours. ROBIN Go your own way. I relieve you of your obligation. SARACEN Only Allah can do that. ROBIN And if I don't want you? SARACEN You have no choice... unless you think you can kill me. He grins broadly.      Offers his hand. SARACEN My name is Aslan. Resigned, Robin takes the proferred hand. ROBIN Robin of Locksley. You know a short route to England, Aslan? CUT TO:
8.		EXT. LOCKSLEY CASTLE  Eerie shapes. Weaving. White light on water. The moon reflected in the moat of a small castle. Towers shrouded in night mist. Smoke curls from a chimney. SUPERIMPOSE:   LOCKSLEY CASTLE, NOTTINGHAMSHIRE, ENGLAND
9.		CONTINUED: KENNETH They've taken my Gwen.    My daughter. LOCKSLEY Who has taken her? KENNETH Men on horses. In masks.  We tried to stop them. My son is dead.
10.		CONTINUED: KENNETH Nearby the Gregor Caves. Locksley reacts -- a hint of fear. They move on... Ahead, the hillside glows, rimmed in eerie light. Strange primitive CHANTS, wafted on the wind. Locksley ties his nervous horse to a tree. Parting undergrowth, Kenneth creeps forward. Cries out. He's face to face with the maggot-eaten skull of a goat. Beyond it, a gruesome host of half-skinned human skulls, all arranged on stakes. Some male, others with rotting female tresses, staring eyelessly into the night. Kenneth turns to run... A hand grabs him.
locksley		Steady, man. They are to dissuade the faint of heart. Think of Gwen. From the crest of the rise, they peer down into the craggy valley. A cave opening, ablaze with flames leers at them like the mouth of hell. Before the cave, a circle of stones. A miniature Stonehenge. A medieval orgy. Men and women in masks and loose robes. Dancing. Drinking. Reveling. Pure carnality. Lord Locksley and Kenneth watch in horror. Faces ashen. KENNETH Druids. LOCKSLEY I trusted we were rid of such evil a century ago.
11.		CONTINUED: LOCKSLEY Gwen? Kenneth nods. The Demon shrieks, dervishing around GWEN, who  is carried onto the central plinth stone. A pagan   altar, the shape of an elephant's head with its trunk  raised. A masked figure stands at the head of the altar.   The high priest of the dark rite. The girl's body shudders as blood-red liquid is forced down her throat. The Demon's voice is husky and hideous. DEMON Come, my virgin flower. Hypnotized by the creature's voice and snake-like move- ments, Gwen stretches herself out. A single beam of sunlight slices through the mist, like a laser. The first light of the rising sun, it strikes directly on the altar, tracking down towards the girl's heart. The Demon's raised talons close in on the white flesh of her neck. Gwen's eyes are open wide, in a trance. The crowd of revelers encircle the plinth. Awed anticipation... A warrior's yell! Sword raised, Locksley THUNDERS in on his CHARGER. The terrified crowd parts. The Demon screams like a banshee. DEMON Kill him!   Kill him! The followers throw themselves at   Locksley. He beats them off. The high priest issues    orders to armed guards, who run to intercept. One aims a    spear. Locksley hacks the shaft in half. Cuts men down    left and right. Reaches the altar stone. LOCKSLEY Gwen!   Up, girl, up! Gwen shakes off her trance. The Demon launches itself at Locksley. Talons rip flesh from his face. With all his strength, Locksley hurls the creature down. LOCKSLEY In the name of God! His broadsword swings in a mighty arc. Slices across the gargoyle's skull. Clean through half the face... Impossibly, the demon rolls back to its feet. 
12.		CONTINUED: The head is an elaborate mask -- beneath are the yellow skin, white hair, and burning red eyes of an albino crone. Screaming vitriol, the hag is unharmed. Momentarily stunned, Locksley regains his senses, hauls the girl onto his charger. The guards close in. Locksley spurs his horse. Rides for an opening. The masked high priest stands resolutely in his path. Brandishing a burning branch. The horse is freaked. Rears. Locksley and the girl are thrown. Unarmed, Locksley charges the man. Slams him into the cave wall. The mask falls. Locksley gasps in recognition.
locksley		Nottingham! The SHERIFF OF NOTTINGHAM. Powerful build, black beard, cruel intensity in every feature. NOTTINGHAM You are an unwelcome surprise, Locksley. LOCKSLEY The King shall hear of this, Nottingham. NOTTINGHAM I think not. Locksley is surrounded. One by one the men reveal their faces. Locksley backs up in shock, recognizing them.
locksely		God help us. NOTTINGHAM One day all England will worship with us. LOCKSLEY Never. The crone spits venom in his face. DEMON I am Mortianna. You will die with my name on your lips. Locksley's agonized cry fills the valley. On the hill- side, Kenneth averts his eyes. Turns to run. Five masked figures block his way.
13.		EXT. ENGLISH SHORE - DAY A twelfth century French sailboat at anchor.    A cross on its sail. A longboat rows to shore. Robin stands in the prow, in a pilgrim's hooded robe. He gazes at the approaching land. Unable to wait, he leaps into the surf and wades to the beach. He kneels, pressing his hands and face into the soil. ROBIN Home.    Thank you, Lord. Aslan steps from the boat, sniffing the air. The French sailors keep their distance from him. Robin takes his hand.
robin		My friend, you have escorted me home. I beg you to free yourself of your vow. Return with the boat. I know how heavy your heart must be, this far from your family and native land... ASLAN  Because I love them so dearly, I cannot dishonor them. A sailor creeps up behind Aslan, club in hand. ROBIN I thought you'd say that. He nods to the sailor, who swings the club down. The Saracen sidesteps, grabs the man's arm and flips him into the surf. He turns a cold stare on Robin.
aslan		No man controls my destiny. Especially not one who attacks downwind and stinks of garlic. Robin laughs.    The Saracen remains intense. ASLAN If our positions were reversed, I would have done the same. Only I would have succeeded. He smiles broadly.    Robin claps him on the shoulder. ROBIN Come, Aslan. By nightfall we will celebrate your honor when we dine with my father.
14.		EXT./INT. PEASANT'S COTTAGE - DAY CRASH! An armored foot splinters the door of a farmer's hovel. Children scream and run. A soldier clubs at them, laughing. Outside. More soldiers. Some on horses, others on foot, with leashed hounds. Pillaging. Vandalizing. Searching. GUY GISBORNE: An impressive figure on horseback. Strikingly handsome -- except that one of his ears is missing. We recognize his face from the Druid ceremony. He coldly addresses a pregnant woman with a child in her arms, FANNY. GISBORNE You owe the sheriff three bushels of flax. FANNY You starve us. First the drought, now you take what food we have left. GISBORNE For starving people, you look fat enough. SOLDIER 
15.		CONTINUED: FANNY No, Wulf! Don't! 'Twill only make it worse. Wulf backs off.   Nostrils flaring with repressed hate. GISBORNE Seize him! While two soldiers grab the Boy, others examine his hiding place. A secret thatched door, built into the side of a haystack... a bow and quiver... and a deer carcass. Gisborne dismounts. GISBORNE This is Lord Nottingham's deer. Is this how you repay the Sheriff for his protection? WULF  Like a wolf protects sheep. FANNY I killed it.   We needed the meat. GISBORNE Poachers hang. Either he dies or you die. WULF My mother lies to protect me. FANNY No, Wulf! Gisborne drags the boy to the carcass.
gisborne		You have deprived us of a hunt, boy. He cups his hand in the deer's blood.    Smears it on Wulf's face. GISBORNE The hounds know the scent well. He tosses his bloody glove to the dogs. They tear at each other in their effort to rip at the glove. GISBORNE Run, boy. Like a deer. Give us some pleasure before you die. 
16.		CONTINUED: To the accompaniment of the HOUNDS' savage HOWLS and the horrified screams of his family, Wulf runs. GISBORNE Unleash them!
aslan		In your land am I not the infidel? The unbeliever, the instrument of evil? ROBIN Our races have fought for a hundred years to prove that point. ASLAN Then I trust it is safer to appear as your slave than as your equal. ROBIN For an 'infidel' you have uncommon clarity of thinking. Yet you refuse to tell me about your home and family. ASLAN Those are my burdens.
robin		You speak my language. You have the diplomacy and honor code of a nobleman. I ask again, why were you to be executed? The Saracen maintains a moody silence. ROBIN So, I must continue with my guesswork. You are highborn? Probably... You fell from favor... Clearly... Why? You broke the law? You were a rival for power? ... A woman? 
17.		CONTINUED: The Saracen reacts, almost imperceptibly. ROBIN By the Lord, that's it! Aslan is silent, but Robin knows he's right. ROBIN They say there are Arab women of such beauty that they can possess a man's mind, that he would be willing to die for them. Is that not so? Ignoring him, the Saracen stops.      Examines the darkening sky. ASLAN It is close to sunset. ROBIN Your people must marry women chosen for them by others, right? No reply.    Aslan unfolds a prayer rug. ROBIN Who is she? The Mullah's daughter? ... Another man's wife?... That's it! ASLAN Endless clouds. Is there no sun in your cursed country? ROBIN You dog! You painted old dog! What is her name? ASLAN Which way is East? ROBIN Her name? ASLAN East? ROBIN Her name? ASLAN East?!!! Robin folds his arms.    A standoff. 
18.		CONTINUED: ASLAN Damn you!... Jasmina. ROBIN Ah, Jasmina!    Is she beautiful? ASLAN Which way is East? ROBIN That way. Aslan throws his rug on the ground.    Kneels. ASLAN Are you sure? ROBIN I would know blindfolded. I'm five miles from home... Was she worth it? ASLAN Worth dying for. Robin stands smiling over him as Aslan begins his prayers... BAYING of HUNTING DOGS... In the distance, the boy Wulf runs toward them, ducks behind a tree and clubs the leading dog with a branch. The other hounds close in... panting with exhaustion, Wulf swings into the branches. A hound savages his leg. The soldiers surround the tree. The boy clambers precariously onto the highest branch... Robin surrep- titiously steals a crossbow from one of the soldiers' horses.
gisborne		You're not playing by    the rules, boy. Deer don't climb     trees... Perhaps he thinks he's    a game bird. Shall we teach     him to fly? Cut it down! The soldiers hack at the trunk.    The tree quivers. ROBIN Hold!... I am curious as to what manner of creature is so fearsome that it takes six men to attack it. Shrouded in his pilgrim's hooded cloak, he approaches them. 
19.		CONTINUED: GISBORNE Stand back, stranger. This is no affair of yours. ROBIN Have we treed the devil himself? Let me see... Ah ha! A small boy. A truly dangerous animal. GISBORNE I advise you to move on, pilgrim. This is the Sheriff's land. ROBIN Wrong. This is my land, and my tree. Therefore, whatever is in it also belongs to me. GISBORNE I grow dangerously tired of your wit... Chop it down! ROBIN The man who strikes that tree dies. He glances nervously at Aslan, who's still at his prayers. The men stop in mid-swing. More surprised than scared. Gisborne gestures to the largest of them. GISBORNE Chop down the hooded fool. ROBIN  Perhaps we could discuss this.
20.		CONTINUED: Aslan ignores him, lost in his   prayers. Robin lifts the other arm -- a second concealed   crossbow. WHUMPF! The bolt flips the dog handler into   the vicious pack. Dead or not, he soon will be. Robin    unsheathes his sword. ROBIN Aslan, get off your damn knees! I have four of them cornered. The Saracen remains head down. Or did we see him steal a glance? Gisborne signals his men to attack. A wave of flashing steel. ROBIN I hope there's enough of me to satisfy you all. Backed up to a tree, he grabs a branch and kicks out. Two men fly back. He lunges at a third. His sword strikes flesh. Robin sidesteps and hurls the fourth onto a sharp tree stump. Gisborne thrusts. Robin reacts too slowly.       Blood flows from his arm. His sword falls. ROBIN Aslan!! Gisborne is on him, sword pressed to his back.      Robin freezes. GISBORNE Well, hooded stranger, allow me to know your name before I run you through.
21.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Now get off my land. And tell your cousin the Sheriff what happens to his scum when they pick on my people. Gisborne takes off, colliding with Aslan as he folds his rug. Reacts in shock at the sight of the strange Arab. Keeps running. ROBIN 
22.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Ha!   It was you he was scared of. Aslan's humor is infectious.     Robin's anger relents. ROBIN Come, my strange friend. Beyond that hill lies the prettiest little castle in all Christendom. Warm hearths, hot food, real beds. ASLAN With feather pillows? ROBIN With feather pillows. Warm and soft like Jasmina's embrace.
23.		CONTINUED: ROBIN  Damn you, Duncan. Why didn't you cut him down? DUNCAN Master Robin, is it you? A miracle. I thought God had abandoned us. ROBIN You left my father to hang like a common thief, carrion for the crows.
aslan		Easy... Look at him. Duncan steps into the moonlight.    His face crudely- scarred. ROBIN What has happened? DUNCAN They say they captured him worshipping with the Druids. He signed a confession before the Bishop of Hereford. ROBIN Did they have witnesses? DUNCAN Just one. Kenneth of Cowfall. The Bishop decreed all the Locksley lands forfeit. ROBIN Did you believe the charges? DUNCAN Not even when they took my eyes. ROBIN Who did this to you, Duncan? DUNCAN Guy of Gisborne. With the sheriff looking on. Robin holds the old retainer to his chest.    Stares into the night in silent rage.
24.		EXT. NOTTINGHAM CASTLE - NIGHT Marked contrast.   A forbidding fortress.   Cliff-like battlements.
25.		CONTINUED: NOTTINGHAM Ha! The prodigal son returns. He is a whelp. This girl could best him. GISBORNE This whelp bested five of my men in the blink of an eye. NOTTINGHAM Your men were probably drunk.   Yet you survived, cousin? Heavy scorn. The sheriff pats Gisborne's hand like a child's. The voice from the darkness becomes a loud CHANT. A wrinkled, monkey-like figure dances INTO VIEW, wearing a necklace of human fingers. You might think she was a hundred years old, if not for her incredible agility. MORTIANNA. GISBORNE 
26.		CONTINUED: MORTIANNA Ally with royal blood. NOTTINGHAM Put someone on the throne and rule through him? Who? MORTIANNA That is not revealed. The idea takes shape in Nottingham's mind.      Mounting intensity. NOTTINGHAM Ally with royal blood. What else do you see? MORTIANNA Armies. NOTTINGHAM Whose? MORTIANNA Yours. Men and weaponry in great numgers. NOTTINGHAM And victory? MORTIANNA Much blood will be spilled. NOTTINGHAM Whose?
close shot		A dice splashes blood. Lands -- a death's head symbol. Mortianna hammers the platter. The dice spins and lands again. Again the grinning skull.
27.		CONTINUED: GISBORNE  No one. I have seen no one. MORTIANNA You lie!     A man... A painted man. NOTTINGHAM What is wrong? MORTIANNA I have seen my death. She whimpers.   Spins, as if fearing invisible intruders.
mortianna		The painted man. He haunts my dreams. GISBORNE Locksley has a companion. A dark- skinned foreigner. He had the marked skin of Islam. Mortianna trembles like an epileptic.    Eyes wide with terror. MORTIANNA Kill them!     Kill them! She throws herself at Nottingham for protection.    He caresses her. Gisborne is thunderstruck. NOTTINGHAM Cousin. Prove to Locksley that your survival was his last mistake.
28.		CONTINUED: Draws it to his mouth, as if to kiss it... and bites down viciously, drawing blood. The girl screams. NOTTINGHAM Now, my child, Mortianna's kisses will seem soft, like an angel's.  Take her. You have earned her. Mortianna grabs the terrified girl's wrist.   Drags her away. GISBORNE It is madness bringing the hag here.
nottingham		Fear not for my sanity, Guy. For in madness, there is great power.
29.		CONTINUED: DUNCAN I know what you're thinking. But one man can achieve nothing against so many. You would need an army. ROBIN Leave me. ASLAN Come, friend. He leads the old man away. CUT TO:
aslan		It surprises me that one who curses others so readily has lived so long. DUNCAN I do not recognize the style of your voice, friend. Are you Irish? A Cornishman? ASLAN Er... no. DUNCAN What manner of name is Aslan then? ASLAN A fine Saracen name. 
30.		CONTINUED: DUNCAN Lord, no! He chokes in shock.   Spitting bread. ASLAN Lord, yes. But eat in peace. I take no offense.  By the prophet! What is the man doing? Robin raises his dagger over his wrist.   Aslan runs to him.
aslan		Wait! Too late. Robin slashes the dagger across his palm. Rain and blood mingle. Streaming onto the grave. ROBIN I swear by my own blood. I will not rest until I have restored my father's name.  ... Or until I am dead.
31.		CONTINUED: ASLAN No food, no shelter,   and weather that would curse the   end of the earth. We  will all   quickly be dead, and I shall be   rid of my vow. They approach a stone wall, surrounding a thatched mansion. ROBIN You despair too soon, Aslan. We shall find food and shelter here among friends.
aslan		What is this place? ROBIN Peter's home. It is nearly seven years since we left here together.
32.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Is the child Marian at home? OLD WOMAN Maybe she is. Maybe she isn't. Remove that hand. Robin refuses. She waits imperiously behind the locked door. Robin reluctantly withdraws his hand. Instantly the hatch slams. ASLAN The hospitality here is as warm as the weather.
girl		Who are you? Dim lighting.    Robin cannot make out who it is. ROBIN I am Robin of Locksley. GIRL You lie.     Robin is dead. ROBIN I may meet my maker soon from lack of sustenance. But for now I am real enough. 
33.		CONTINUED: GIRL Step into the light.    Turn around. ROBIN By heaven, am I to dance next? Who are you? GIRL I am the maid Marian. ROBIN Then show yourself, child.     For we knew each other well. GIRL With the king away, these are lawless times. There are outlaws villainous enough to kidnap and ransom a relative of his. ROBIN You know I am not one of them. Besides, I am sworn to protect you. GIRL  Protect me? Robin of Locksley was nothing but a spoiled bully. ROBIN Allow that years of war and prison may change a man. Step forward, Marian, so I may see how you have changed.
34.		CONTINUED: The sword is jabbed into his back. Robins faces the man -- clad in back, with a metal fighting mask. ROBIN You are truly courageous against an unarmed man. The figure gestures towards the door. Robin sidesteps. Slams an elbow. The sword drops. Slides across the floor. Robin moves for it, but the man intercepts, drawing a dagger. Robin darts to the wall. Rips off an antlered deer head. Defends himself as the attacker slashes at the horns.
outside		The SOUND of the fight indoors.   Aslan hurls himself at the door. It doesn't give.
inside		Chunks of horn fly. Robin parries and thrusts.     The horns get shorter. Robin retreats. Left with just the nubs, Robin hurls the deer head at the mask. Gaining advantage, he charges. Grabs the dagger hand, smashes it into the wall. The knife drops. Robin wrenches off the mask. Long hair tumbles down... a beautiful YOUNG WOMAN. The front door CAVES IN. Aslan stumbles through... just in time to see the woman's knee fly up into Robin's crotch. Robin folds. The battle is over. The young woman stands over Robin. YOUNG WOMAN As she was saying, we have no need of your protection. Robin croaks through clenched teeth. ROBIN Marian. CUT TO:
35.		CONTINUED: The fat girl, SARAH, who pretended to be Marian, serves. Flashes a lusty smile at Aslan, who glances at Robin -- "Help!" Marian arrives. In a gown. Stunning. An impish grin. MARIAN I trust Lord Locksley has recovered from his indisposition. Aslan laughs.   Robin glares.
marian		I will forward your condolences to my mother. She turns her back.   He searches for a way to reach her. ROBIN On my return, I found my father dead. The Sheriff denounced him as a Druid and took our lands. MARIAN The people fear the Druids so much they'd believe anything. Nottingham would have me burned at the stake as a witch if he thought he could possess my property. 
36.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Why do you not join your mother in London? You would be safer there. MARIAN I will not retreat.     Besides, I have no interest in    life at court. Gossip-mongering and    currying favor. Here I am my     own person. ROBIN The you must allow me to be your guardian.
marian		I do not need a guardian. She turns to face him.   Streaming tears. MARIAN My brother is dead. You cannot take his place. Robin grabs and holds her. ROBIN Marian, I don't want to replace him. MARIAN What do you want? Their eyes meet... a sudden intimacy between them. Robin moves closer. Marian begins to respond, then pulls away.
marian		This is wrong. She runs back to the house. Robin stares after her. Aslan appears in the doorway with Duncan. ASLAN Robin! The old man hears horses. Approaching fast. He runs to a bluff... a column of soldiers snakes up the hillside. ASLAN Twenty or more. In battle armor. MARIAN Soldiers coming here?     Is this your protection? 
37.		CONTINUED: ROBIN I killed some of the Sheriff's men. I fear I have placed you in danger. MARIAN I can take care of myself. There are horses in the stable. Go! Aslan runs into the stables. ROBIN I'm not leaving. Marian ices him with a glare. Aslan reappears, with two bareback horses. Soldiers appear on the crest, led by Gisborne... With a mischievous grin, Marian runs to the soldiers. MARIAN Stop them!   They're stealing my horses! ROBIN Damn the girl! Aslan, can you ride? In answer, Aslan grins. Leaps onto a horse. With a single swift move he hoists Duncan up behind him and digs in his heels. The mare leaps forward, and over the estate wall. ROBIN He can ride. He heads his horse at the wall. It stumbles. Barely clears it. Stones fly. Robin struggles to hold on. Marian stands directly in Gisborne's path. GISBORNE You have been sheltering outlaws, Lady Marian. MARIAN They're thieves, you imbecile. Bring back my horses, or the Sheriff will know of your cowardice. Gisborne knows she is lying. 
38.		CONTINUED: GISBORNE You're lucky he didn't steal your virtue too.  A crown to the man who brings me Locksley's head. He leads the pursuit.   A SOLDIER hangs back.   Grabs Marian's hair. SOLDIER A kiss for me, Saxon bitch. MARIAN Kiss this!
39.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Of course I've had a woman! Come on, pretty one. He pats the horse soothingly.    The animal edges forward. ASLAN Softly.   With your knees. ROBIN I know!   I know! The soldiers reload.   Robin urges the horse at the steep drop.
robin		Easy, easy. Another wave of crossbow bolts. Robin launches the frightened animal into space. Hooves flail... touch down. Scramble up the other bank. Robin enthusiastically pats the horse's neck. ROBIN I love you! The first two pursuers misjudge their leaps.     Their mounts land sprawling in the riverbed. GISBORNE  Robin of the Hood! Son of the devil worshipper. ROBIN What is your pleasure, Gisborne?
gisborne		It was I who strung your father's corpse to the castle gate. My pleasure will be in doing the same to you. ROBIN You survived one meeting.    Our next will be your last. GISBORNE Your father died a coward, cursing your name and squealing like a stuck pig. ROBIN That's a lie! 
40.		CONTINUED: Incensed, he is losing his judgement. ASLAN  Come, Robin! He is trying to anger you into a trap. A shaft pierces the flank of Robin's horse. It rears in fright. Robin clings on. Six soldiers, the men Gisborne split off, are climbing the embankment towards him. Robin regains control. Rides right at them. Scatters them, and takes off again. Gisborne yells at his men to follow.
scope pov		Through the scope we see the movement on the hill behind them.
scope pov		The soldiers are close!
41.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Is this Arab magic? ASLAN No.    Arab science. He replaces the tube in his pouch. ASLAN How did your uneducated kind ever take Jerusalem? ROBIN God knows!
42.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Be quiet!    Listen. WIND GUSTS the trees in angry waves. Emits deathly SHRIEKS. The HORSES WHINNEY. Unnerved, Aslan smites around him with his scimitar. Wheels at the sounds, striking only air. ASLAN Allah protect us from the evil spirits. Duncan clings to his back.   Robin points. ROBIN Behind you! Aslan slashes out, futilely. ROBIN No, there!    And there! Aslan flails.   Robin cracks up. ASLAN Cease your mad laughing.     I can feel them. Robin reaches into the branches. Pulls out a string of hollowed wooden tubes -- WINDCHIMES. Dozens of such strings on all the trees. He blows over the hollow end. A low chilling MOAN. ROBIN Here are your ghosts, Duncan. A child's toy put to good use. You scare easily, my painted Saladin. His laughter is broken by a piercing YELL. A red- jacketed figure swings down out of a tree on a rope. Catapults him to the ground. The bushes are instantly alive. Shaggy, wild-eyed men, armed with cudgels, scythes and hayforks. Twelfth- century Hell's Angels. The red-jacketed young turk, WILL SCARLET, leaps around Robin. WILL SCARLET 
43.		CONTINUED: The woodsmen eye the bizarre stranger, keeping their distance from him. Will kicks at Robin, who tries to grab him. Will skips out of range. Robin falls. WILL SCARLET Atishoo, Atishoo. We all fall down. Beg for mercy, rich man. ROBIN I beg of no man. Which of you scum has guts enough to face me man to man? VOICE  Yeah, bollocks, mate.
44.		CONTINUED: WILL SCARLET A man who travels with two servants and claims he's without money, is either a fool or a liar. Grabbing Robin, Little shakes him like a doll. Something CLINKS. Robin's father's medallion. Laughing heartily, Little rips it from Robin's neck and tosses it to Scarlet. WILL SCARLET And this one is a liar. 
45.		CONTINUED: WULF Be careful, Father. He fights like a demon. He walloped six o' Sheriff's men? JOHN LITTLE Is that so? Another grin. Licking his lips in anticipation, he lunges for Robin's wrist. Wrenches the sword free. Bends it into a pretzel. ROBIN Aslan!
aslan		You seemed more in danger of losing your pride than your life. DUNCAN I recognized some of the voices. Many were from your father's farms. ASLAN Your avenging army, my friend. ROBIN That rabble? ASLAN All they need is a leader. 
46.		CONTINUED: ROBIN They have a leader.   A very large one. ASLAN Defeat him and they will follow you. ROBIN Allah has taken your brains. DUNCAN I hear the voice of a spoiled child, Master Robin. I suggest you cease your brave talk of revenge and flee to the north. ROBIN You, too? You expect me to fight that behemoth? DUNCAN Your father would expect you to act like a man. CUT TO: EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY A large tree trunk spans a swift-flowing river. The ragged band of woodsmen approach the makeshift bridge. Stop in their tracks. Robin stands on the bridge, brandishing a long wooden staff. ROBIN This is my bridge. No one crosses without paying tax. JOHN LITTLE Just bugger off, mate, huh? ROBIN If you wish to cross, it will cost you a gold medallion. JOHN LITTLE Ain't I hurt you a bloody nuff for one day? WILL SCARLET If he's in a hurry to end his mortal misery, help him. 
47.		CONTINUED: ROBIN You don't have the courage to face me again, John Little? Or should I call you 'Little John'? John grabs a hefty, gnarled staff.   Strides to the bridge. JOHN LITTLE Alright, m'old cock. You wanna nuther good wallopin'? His confidence melting, Robin glances back at Duncan and Aslan, who grins like a fan at a boxing match. John storms at Robin. Staffs thrash. Driven back, Robin connects a blow on John's foot. The giant is off-balance. Robin follows up. Lands a couple to the ribs. John responds with heavy swings, which Robin blocks deftly. Back and forth, blow for blow, all blocked. John chuckles with every swing. Enjoying the time of his life. Their staffs lock. It's strength against strength. Robin is no match. With one mighty thrust, John hurtles him into the stream. The woodsmen cheer loudly. Aslan watches impassively. Robin scrambles back onto the bridge.   John waits, grinning. JOHN LITTLE Lil' wet behind the ears, mate? WILL SCARLET Don't fool with him. Get him!
48.		CONTINUED: JOHN LITTLE Bloomin' shame. 'E were a brave 'un. Suddenly Robin arcs up out of the water. His hands clamp onto John's ankles. Robin heaves with all his might. John topples headfirst into the water. Surfaces in panic. JOHN LITTLE Help!   Cain't bloody swim. He submerges again.   Robin pulls his head above water. ROBIN Do you yield?
49.		CONTINUED: ROBIN 
50.		CONTINUED: LITTLE JOHN This stumpy one 'ere's David o' Doncaster. We calls 'im Bull. ROBIN How do you come by the name, Bull? BULL 'Cuz o' my size, Sire. ROBIN Because you are short? BULL Nay.   'Cuz I be so long.
51.		CONTINUED: LITTLE JOHN We're outlaws. Got prices on our 'eads, every man jack. Blasted Sheriff says we owes 'im taxes. ROBIN How do you fare? LITTLE JOHN We get by, I reckon. ROBIN While the Sheriff steals your land and your families starve?
little john		What in bloody blazes'd ya have us do? ROBIN Your ghosts will only keep his men at bay so long, my friend. Soon the Sheriff will hunt you down and hang you. You must fight back. LITTLE JOHN We show as much as a toe outside the forest, they'll slaughter us like bleedin' sheep. ROBIN We must organize. Win by guile. LITTLE JOHN 'We'? Ya lookin' to join us, matie? ROBIN No.   To lead you. WILL SCARLET Ha! I would never be led by the son of a Druid. ROBIN There are many here who knew my father to be a kind and generous man. I doubt that in their hearts they believe him capable of such a horror. Murmurs of agreement from around the fire.    Robin turns to Will. 
robin		He is right to distrust me. I am a rich man's son. I have done no honest labor. But today I am as poor as any of you. Nottingham has stolen all that I own. And when I killed Gisborne's men, I, too, became an outlaw. LITTLE JOHN Ya're full o'bloody wind an' all, mate. This 'ere load o' rubbish agin the Sheriff's bloomin' army? Ya must be bloody jokin'. ROBIN We can win.   And I believe we will. LITTLE JOHN Ya're a daft bugger, Robin Hood, but ya're a brave 'un, I'll give ya that. Drink up, laddie, cuz tomorrow ya mayn't be so lucky! Tomorrow I shall best ya an' crack that blasted noble head in two. Laughing loudly, he throws back his head for a long draught of mead.
53.		CONTINUED: ASLAN  I have led you wrong. This is no army. These men live like dogs. ROBIN English dogs.    They can learn. ASLAN Learn what?   To build kennels? He sullenly stalks away. Robin shakes his head. Aslan is right. He rouses Duncan, who is asleep at his side. The old man groans awake, holding his head. Seriously hung-over.
robin		Too much mead, old friend.    What day is it? DUNCAN Sunday, I believe. ROBIN Good. Do they still give alms to the poor at the mass? DUNCAN They do. These days the need for mercy is greater than ever. ROBIN Then I must ask you a favor. EXT. ROAD TO NOTTINGHAM - DAY
54.		CONTINUED: GUARD Do I know you? Robin gazes into space, trying to look blind.   The Guard sniffs his soiled hand. GUARD My God, you stink! ROBIN Pardon my blindness, sir.    I'm always falling down. GUARD Yeech!   Get away from me.
55.		CONTINUED: VARIOUS 1.   Alms! 2.   Have mercy, milady. 3.   Pity, fine sir. 4.   For my baby. 5.   Etc. The rich drop a few mites, sparking a mad scramble. Church officials roughly keep order. Marian passes some coins to the mother of a small child. A hand grabs her wrist. ROBIN Alms for a blind man. For one who cannot see your beauty.
marian		 This is dangerous. ROBIN So you care for my safety? MARIAN No, for mine. I do not wish to be seen with an outlaw. ROBIN Under the Sheriff's law, that's a badge of pride. MARIAN He's put a price on your head. ROBIN How much?
marian		A hundred gold pieces. ROBIN Is that all? I have not annoyed him enough. Soon he will offer ten thousand. MARIAN For ten thousand I would turn you in myself. 
56.		CONTINUED: MARIAN He has rounded up every blacksmith in the county. He has them holed up in the castle making swords and armor. ROBIN What is he planning? MARIAN I don't know, but there's no limit to the man's ambitions.  Go!
robin		If you need me, I will be with the woodsmen. Send for me as 'Robin Hood.' MARIAN Robin!   Do something for me. ROBIN What? MARIAN Take a bath. ROBIN Care to join me? With a grin, he slips into the crowd as Nottingham arrives.
nottingham		You shine like the sun, my lady. He raises her hand, as he did the girl's in the castle. Kisses it. NOTTINGHAM You have been meeting with young Robin of Locksley. 
57.		CONTINUED: NOTTINGHAM I deeply regret it, and I promise you he will be brought to justice. For subjecting you to such treatment, I will hang him from the walls with his own entrails. That gleam of insanity.   Robin watches from a distance. MARIAN I would like to see that, my lord. The Sheriff places his hand possessively on her shoulder. NOTTINGHAM My dear, a woman of your refinement is not safe living alone. If you would consent to bring your household within the city walls, I could give your needs my most personal attention. MARIAN I thank you, Lord Nottingham, from the heart, but for now I prefer to stay in my family's ancestral home. My cousin, King Richard, will be deeply moved to hear of your concern for my welfare. NOTTINGHAM Alas, the King has many enemies both abroad and at home. I fear for his safe return. MARIAN Fear not, my dear Sheriff. He will return. When he does, he will wish to reward his faithful subjects. The Sheriff smiles sourly and takes his leave. Marian deflates with relief. The Sheriff walks alone towards a side door. BEGGAR 
58.		CONTINUED: ROBIN A hundred crowns, Sheriff?   You insult me. Nottingham starts to struggle.   Robin draws blood. ROBIN Remember young Robin of Locksley, Sheriff? Meet Robin Hood. Your nemesis. Your avenging angel. NOTTINGHAM If you kill me, you will hang. ROBIN If I kill you, I will hang happy. NOTTINGHAM What do you want? ROBIN I want to give you a chance. A chance you do not deserve. A chance to right your wrongs. NOTTINGHAM I'm listening. ROBIN From this day forward you will cease to tax my people. You will renounce the charges against my father, and you will return his lands to me. NOTTINGHAM Why should I? ROBIN Because for every harm you do, I swear by God I shall visit on you threefold in return. NOTTINGHAM Empty words. ROBIN I am here with a blade at your throat. As long as I live, you will always know that I could be here again. A YELL from across the church. Gisborne has spotted them. Robin digs the knife a little deeper. 
59.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Your answer? NOTTINGHAM Never, fool. ROBIN Then it will begin.. Gisborne yells orders.   Robin hurls Nottingham against the wall.
robin		A personal loan from the Sheriff. ASLAN 
60.		CONTINUED: ASLAN A foolish risk. If you had been killed, I would be cursed for eternity for failing to fulfil my pledge. ROBIN Aslan, if I didn't know better, I would swear you were worried about me.
nottingham		Starve them out. Slaughter their livestock. I want to see Locksley's own people fighting each other to bring him to us. GISBORNE I swear he will not live to see the next full moon.
61.		CONTINUED: Wulf runs to greet his mother and siblings.    A contingent of woodsmen confronts Robin. WILL SCARLET You brought this misery on us, Locksley. We can barely feed ourselves. LITTLE JOHN Sheriff hasn't left us a bloody pot to piss in. ROBIN Then we shall take from him and his rich friends.
62.		EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP - DAY  I am ready, Will. Will bends, as if checking the horse's legs. Secretly grabs a handful of sand. Swings into the saddle and digs in his heels. Closing in, Will flings the sand in Robin's eyes. Robin clutches his hands to his face, blinded. Will spins back to the attack. His sword slashes. Reacting to the sound, Robin rolls aside. The men cheer like a big fight crowd.
63.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Come on, you little piss pot. Do your worst! Will grabs a spear from a bystander. Robin stands his ground. Will lunges, Robin sidesteps. ROBIN The horse is smarter than you are, Will. Some of the men laugh. Will is incensed. Robin ducks and weaves, easily evading Will's repeated charges. Robin ducks right under the horse's belly.
robin		Here, Will!   You aim like a girl, Will! Will stabs wildly, more and more frustrated. Laughter spreads, as Robin plays hide and seek around the horse's legs. Grabbing the end of the spear, he clowns a tug of war. Enraged, Will strains and tries to kick Robin away. Suddenly, Robin lets go. Unbalanced, Will flies back- wards off his mount. Robin snatches the spear and raises it over his fallen adversary. The crowd falls silent. Robin strikes. The point quivers in the ground below Will's crotch. Will wriggles in terror. Impaled, his pants rip open. ROBIN Thank the Lord you are not endowed like Bull.
64.		CONTINUED: Robin scans the faces.     He has their attention. ROBIN Nottingham has taken from us everything we own. Now we are going to start taking from him. LITTLE JOHN 'Ow in bloody blazes are we gonna do that? ROBIN We are going to tax him. DISSOLVE TO:
scope pov		A phalanx of   mounted soldiers, a cart loaded with barrels, and   a tax wagon. The wagon is an armored box on wheels, with   crossbow slits in the side. Guy of Gisborne commands the   escort. BACK TO SCENE ROBIN This is no ordinary convoy. Bull calls up from below, where a ragged group of woods- men lies nervously in ambush. BULL 'ow many? 
65.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Er, about ten.  Why scare them? They can't count anyway. ASLAN And they call me the barbarian. ROBIN Let's go. Together they run down the hill, keeping low. Gisborne eyes the forest. The beer cart is steered by a fat red-faced FRIAR, raucously singing hymns and quaffing from a jug, which he repeatedly dips into one of the barrels. ARROWS WHISTLE in. The Friar yells and drops his jug. A soldier is hit. At the forest edge, four woodsmen reload their longbows. Dressed in green, their faces camouflaged. The mounted soldiers charge them. The  woodsmen run into the trees. As the horsemen close in,  the runners leap into a trench. Lift up matted screens  of brush and grass. It's as if they disappeared.   The soldiers slash wildly at the thick screens. More arrows fly. More soldiers fall. The others spin in confusion, trying to discern the enemy. More woods- men break from cover. Run down a narrow path. Gisborne urges his men to pursue. They ride in single file, beating their way through the tangled branches.
66.		CONTINUED: Gisborne races back to the road... the wagons are gone. He rides frantically back and forth. Searching and cursing. EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY Robin climbs onto the tax wagon's roof.     Angry shouts from inside. ROBIN Surrender your weapons. I give you my word you shall go free. In answer, a swordblade jabs up through the roof, near his feet.
robin		Ah, I feared as much. He signals to Aslan, who steers the tax wagon into the river. Water floods in through the slits. Inside, panic. Drowning rats. The bowmen scramble out. What they see stops them dead. Both banks are men in green, longbows aimed directly at them. CUT TO: COUNTRYSIDE Sparks. An axe pounds into the lock of a strongbox. The lock snaps. Little John pries open the lid. Reacts in astonishment. The trunk is filled to the brim with glittering gold coins. The woodsmen press around. Cheers of celebration.
67.		CONTINUED: FRIAR The Lord's blessing on you, kind sir. These sinners were attempting to steal these libations destined for the monks of St. Catherine's. He indicates his cargo of barrels. ROBIN It appears to me, Reverend Friar, that many of the libations have found their way into your own esteemed person. Ignoring him, the Friar mounts the cart.
friar		A thousand pardons, sir, but duty beckons. I must hasten on. ROBIN 
68.		CONTINUED: FRIAR ... you must best me for it. Robin staggers. The Friar whips up the horse. Dazed, Robin grabs for the fat man's leg. Gets a holy sandal full in the face. FRIAR Giddyup, nag! The Friar's horse, as obese as his driver, slowly raises his head from the grass and ambles forward. Robin runs after them and dives at the Friar, toppling him from the cart.
robin		You leave when I say. Scrambling to his feet, the Friar glances skyward. FRIAR Protect me, Lord. He sweeps his foot, knocking Robin's legs out from under him. Hurls his full body weight on top of him. Whooomf! FRIAR Yield! He bounces on Robin's stomach. Robin can barely breathe. The woodsmen are enjoying the spectacle. FRIAR Confess that Friar Tuck is a better, holier, and braver man than thou art, knave.
robin		Never!   Whoomf! FRIAR Yield, I say!    Yield to Friar Tuck. Desperate, Robin bites the Friar's leg. Tuck howls. Robin extricates himself, grabs for a weapon. Smashes the Friar's head with his drinking jug. ROBIN Yield yourself! He dives onto the Friar and hammers his head into the ground. 
69.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Yield to Robin Hood. Tuck holds up a hand in surrender.    Robin eases off. FRIAR  Thank you, Lord, for teaching me humility. ROBIN Well, Friar Tuck. We have need of an honest man of God, to minister to these men and their families. What do you say?
friar tuck		strapped into the traces, pulls the beer cart. Sweating profusely, grunting with strain. His horse contentedly follows. ROBIN Giddyup, Friar.
70.		CONTINUED: ROBIN You will not regret it. FRIAR Aye, but you may. CUT TO: EXT. WOODSMEN'S CAMP A blazing fire. Deer carcasses roast. Tuck's barrels supply the refreshment. Robin and Aslan pass out coins to each family. ROBIN Buy yourself a new son, Stephen. FARMER Thankee, Robin. Little John and Bull approach. John indicates the two prisoners roped to a nearby tree. LITTLE JOHN Cain't get a bleedin' squeak outa 'em, Rob. BULL They'd be spittin' it out good if they'd knowed anythin'. LITTLE JOHN Reckon the Cap'n knows summat, Rob, but stubborn ol' cocker 'e is. ASLAN Perhaps it is time for some heathen persuasion. CUT TO: CAPTAIN OF SOLDIERS stares up at Robin defiantly. CAPTAIN Spare your breath. I know nothing. ROBIN 
71.		CONTINUED: ROBIN  And when he gets like this, he's very hard to reason with. With a hair-raising war cry, Aslan   leaps INTO VIEW. Stripped to the waist, brandishing   his scimitar. The Captain tries to back away. Robin    tries to restrain Aslan, is hurled aside. Snarling,    drooling at the mouth, Aslan explores the Captain's body   with his hands. A butcher checking meat. ROBIN I strongly advise you to talk. He hasn't eaten in weeks.
captain		 No, Aslan... not this one, Aslan. ... How about this other one?... Fatter, yes... more meat. The other soldier, who definitely  has more flesh on the bone, is struck dumb with horror,  as Aslan turns his attention to him. With one swing   of his sword, Aslan slices through the man's ropes.   Drags him to his feet. Little John runs over.
72.		CONTINUED: The demented Arab slowly reappears. Blood drips from his lips. He munches the flesh from a long bone, on the end of which is the soldier's glove... the man's arm. Turning to Robin, Aslan shouts in Arabic and gesticulates wildly at the Captain. CAPTAIN What does he say? ROBIN Well, roughly, he says that he doesn't care for the way your friend tastes, and he wants you. CAPTAIN No, God, no! I'll talk. Just keep him away. Keep him away!
behind wagon		Bull holds the other prisoner, muffling the man's mouth and trying to suppress his own laughter. Beside them lies a large chunk of venison. The man is unharmed, except that he's missing a glove.
73.		CONTINUED: LITTLE JOHN Aye, the Romans built a bleedin' great wall to keep 'em out. BULL What does 'e want wi 'em? ROBIN Since he also has every Smith in the country working in his castle, we can assume he is planning a little war. LITTLE JOHN Agin' who?
aslan		England.
nottingham		Spanish steel, cousin. So much stronger than our native blades. Any losses? GISBORNE All the men are gone. NOTTINGHAM Yet again you are the sole survivor, cousin? Interesting. And the gold? GISBORNE Well, it er... disappeared. 
74.		CONTINUED: The Sheriff looks at Gisborne for the first time. NOTTINGHAM Robin Hood? GISBORNE They were woodsmen, dressed in green. NOTTINGHAM Robin Hood. He places a hand reassuringly on his cousin's shoulder. NOTTINGHAM Cousin, we must be strong. We cannot allow this outlaw to make fools of us. Without warning, he drives the blade into Gisborne's belly. NOTTINGHAM And I cannot allow a lieutenant to fail me.  It is indeed fine steel.
75.		CONTINUED: Laughter. The procession passes two of the Sheriff's mounted soldiers. They glumly watch as Tuck raises his jug in greeting. FRIAR Good morrow, brothers.
76.		CONTINUED: He wades bare-ass naked out of the water towards her. She casts a contemptuous look over his muscled body, glistening with water. MARIAN How dare you expose yourself to me?! She slugs him. Robin stumbles backwards into the water. Bull grins, gesturing to Sarah and pointing to his own black eye. BULL The big 'un did the same to me.
77.		CONTINUED: MARIAN Do you think he's going to let you get away with all this? The man is without mercy. He will annihilate you. ROBIN Somebody has to take a stand. MARIAN You're taking a stand with the lives of these people. These young ones. A beat. She checks the faces. Her eyes meet Robin's. Is there a hint of concern for him also? MARIAN What do you want from me? ROBIN Nottingham was sending this gold to buy reinforcements from the Celtic tribesmen. We need to warn King Richard. MARIAN Nottingham would not dare challenge the King. ROBIN The King is not in England to be challenged, is he? While he is away, he may lose his country.  You are Richard's cousin. You can get word to him. He would believe you. MARIAN Now you want me to participate in your folly? A little girl approaches, holding a bouquet of wild flowers. Touched, Marian kneels to accept the offering. CUT TO:
bouquet		protrudes from Marian's saddle. She is mounted, ready to go. Sarah giggles as she takes her leave of Bull. 
78.		CONTINUED: ROBIN  Will you send word to the King? MARIAN I'll think about it.
79.		CONTINUED: MARIAN You will travel to France immediately. You must give this directly into the hands of the King, and him alone. The courier bows in acknowledgement.    Marian indicates Sarah. MARIAN My lady-in-waiting will accompany you. Surprised, the courier glances at the Bishop.
bishop		My dear, I could not vouch for her safety. The journey is fraught with danger. MARIAN I appreciate your concern, my Lord, but Sarah is an accomplished rider. I must insist that she goes along. BISHOP  As you wish.
robin		We have to be ready to move camp at any time. The only way we can be attacked is from the Nottingham Road. We hide lookouts in the trees, here and here. If they see soldiers, they shoot warning arrows. Whistles by day, fire by night. Wulf runs up to Little John in panic. WULF Father!   Come quick.   Mother's dying.
80.		INT. WOODSMEN'S HUT - DAY Fanny Little writhes in agony.    John rushes in.   Tuck looks up from Fanny's side. FRIAR The child comes early. Fanny screams.   John kneels beside her, taking her head. LITTLE JOHN Hush, m'lass.    Ya'll be fine. FANNY 'S not like t'others, John.    Oh God, it pains me so.
little john		 Ya're sittin' thar like a fat sow. Help her, man, help her! FRIAR I am doing all I can. Aslan appears in the doorway, with Robin. Whips back the blanket. Fanny's chest is covered with black squirming creatures. ASLAN By Allah, leeches! He starts to pull the parasites off.    Tuck jumps at him. FRIAR Get away from her! Aslan pushes him away, continuing his work.
aslan		Blood is like air. If she loses blood, she and the child will die. John is paralyzed with confusion.    Tuck appeals to Robin. FRIAR He lies. He is the devil's seed, sent to lead us astray. ASLAN Fool, both the Bible and the Koran instruct us to preserve life. Tuck raises an arm to strike Aslan. Robin blocks the blow. Aslan gently touches the mother's stomach. 
81.		CONTINUED: ASLAN  If you will allow me, I can help her. It will not be without danger.
friar		Do not listen to him!   He will kill her. ASLAN If you do not listen to me, she will certainly die. And the child, too. Fanny cries out.   John looks to Robin, pleading for advice. ROBIN The good Friar has done all he can. I suggest you let the Arab try.  If I am wrong, and they die, then you may take my life.
82.		CONTINUED: ROBIN What are you going to do? ASLAN The child must be taken out by the knife. ROBIN The knife? ASLAN I have seen it many times with horses. ROBIN Horses? By the Lord, what are her chances? ASLAN After wasting so much blood... not good. ROBIN Now you tell me! Wulf runs back in.     Aslan holds up a piece of wood. ASLAN  Are you ready?... Bite down on this... Robin, hold her steady. He lifts the red-hot knife from the ashes.
inside		The mother heaves, then drops. ROBIN Is she gone? 
83.		CONTINUED: Aslan ignores him, keeps working over Fanny's body. Robin cannot watch... a WAIL! Aslan mutters something in awed Arabic. ROBIN What did you say? Aslan holds up a bloody struggling infant. ASLAN It is a boy. The mother revives.   Aslan places the child on her breast.
aslan		Your son, my lady... Robin, hold her skin together while I sew her up. He picks up the needle and thread.   Robin's eyes turn to the woman's abdomen... He faints. CUT TO:
little john		marches among the cheering families, holding his newborn child high for all to see. Tuck sits miserably to one side. Bloody and  exhausted, Aslan appears at the hut door. Tuck jumps  to his feet, drawing his knife. Heads turn. Tense silence. Robin appears, unsteadily, behind Aslan. Watches, ready to intervene. Tuck stares at Aslan. Raises his blade... and slices down across his own wrist. FRIAR This day God has taught me a fine lesson. He hands Aslan the knife and extends his bloodied wrist. FRIAR I would be honored. Aslan slices his own wrist. The two wrists clasp together in the universal sign of brotherhood. Everyone cheers. FRIAR You are a good man, my barbarian friend. 
84.		CONTINUED: FRIAR  We shall open a barrel together and I shall do my damndest to save your heathen soul. ASLAN Alas, I am not permitted... FRIAR Our God made this brew, brother. I merely combined the ingredients. Do you dare to insult his works?
marian		Who is there?     Duncan!
85.		CONTINUED: SOLDIER We meet again. He reveals a large scar on his wrist -- removes his mask -- the man who attacked her earlier. He prods her with his sword. SOLDIER Drop your blade. MARIAN You are still overmatched, soldier. She drops the sword. He hurls her against the table. Lays his blade against her chest.
soldier		You owe me favors, wench. Bare your breasts... or I will do it for you. Resignedly, she raises a hand to loosen the string on her dress. With the other hand she reaches behind her, grabs a pepper bowl. Flips the contents into his face. Screaming, he grabs his  face. She reaches for her dagger. He slashes with   his sword. She backs to the fireplace, grabs a spit  of roasted chickens... drives the point clean through  his chest. He stares in shock at his own blood pouring from the cooked fowls pinned to his breast... FOOTSTEPS... masked soldiers converge from both sides of the house, dragging the servants. Duncan  is shoved through the door. DUNCAN I am sorry, my lady.    There were too many. She stares at the invaders with studied calm. MARIAN Is there something you need, gentlemen? I remember no masked ball on my calendar. CUT TO:
aerial shot		FLYING LOW OVER treetops, OVER an expanse of green, intersected by brown roads and tracks. We are LOOKING AT a detailed scale model of Sherwood Forest in...
86.		INT. CASTLE CHAMBER - NIGHT The Sheriff and SIX BARONS are gathered around the model. These are the men who revealed their faces to Lord Locksley in the Druid ceremony. Nottingham toys with a white rat on his arm. REDHEAD BARON Forget about Locksley. He is no threat. NOTTINGHAM How can we control all England if we cannot control our own county? The people are turning him into a hero.
greybeard baron		It is impossible to attack him in the forest. We have tried everything. He is cunning. NOTTINGHAM Then we   will be more cunning. I must be   rid of him. We may not be able   to intercept his next warning   to the King. Sounds of COMMOTION outside. The door swings open. Framed in the doorway is a colossus in black armor. His helmet is the head of a dragon. He slowly raises the visor. Deep tribal scars on his cheeks. Implacable ferocity in his eyes. CELTIC CHIEFTAIN I want the heads of the men who stole my gold.
nottingham		Welcome, sir. We were discussing how to rid ourselves of those very men. The outlaws who band with Robin Hood. REDHEAD BARON My Lord Nottingham, I must protest. It is a mistake to ally ourselves with foreigners. GREYBEARD BARON What can these Celts do that we cannot? 
87.		CONTINUED: The Chieftain strides across to the fire. Grabs a burning log. The Baron backs away in fear. The log spits sparks as the Chieftain raises it above his head... and drives it into his own palm. He stares unblinking at the Baron, holding the log to his hand for a full three seconds. An awed silence. Nottingham grins, delighted with the demonstration. He deposits his white rat onto the model. NOTTINGHAM This rat Hood has hidden out in the forest.  He resists all our assaults with traps and devices, while he robs us blind. We must bring him out and destroy him. The rat has scurried into the shelter of the model trees. The Chieftain watches impassively, then calmly touches the log to the model. The trees ignite... the RAT SQUEALS in terror and runs. The Chieftain cuts off its escape, setting fire to more trees... again... and again. The Sheriff watches the flames, fascinated. DISSOLVE TO:
88.		CONTINUED: FRIAR How can these Arabs hold Jerusalem when they can't even hold their brew? DISSOLVE TO:
90.		CONTINUED: He runs forward. Turns the body over. Skin chalk-white from loss of blood... Sarah! A shadow falls across Robin. Before he can react, a cudgel stuns him into blackness.
91.		CONTINUED: MARIAN Because you love me. Say it. You love me. 
92.		CONTINUED: Bull joins the fray, charging like his namesake, howling in rage, flailing at heads with his quarterstaff. Wulf stays in the mouth, picking off men with deadly accuracy. A furious melee. Bull and Aslan mow down the enemy like hay, battling far superior odds. Soon they are the only two left standing. Bull peers cautiously into the dark- ness. Behind him, one of his victims crawls back to his feet... and lunges. ASLAN Behind you! Too late. A sword is driven through Bull's gut. Aslan grabs the attacker by the neck and pile-drives him into the cave wall. The man's SKULL CRACKS against the rocks. Aslan runs to Robin's side, as Wulf hurries to Bull's. Robin is slumped against a rock. ROBIN  Marian? Aslan runs to the back of the cave, searching. Wulf is crouched beside Bull, who murmurs his dying words. BULL Ya be sure Sarah gits a Christian burial. Promise me, boy. WULF I promise. Aslan stumbles at the edge of a deep crevasse. Far be- low he sees Mortianna, clambering down the steep rock. For a second their eyes meet. She hisses -- venom, hatred, fear -- then is gone.
93.		CONTINUED: ASLAN It worked for me this very morning.  You will thank me for this later.
94.		EXT. SHERWOOD FOREST - DAY Fire.   Blazing rampant. Along a hillside are hundreds of crossbowmen with fire arrows. At a shouted order, another wave of flaming arrows ignites the trees. Behind the crossbowmen are two figures on horseback. One is the Sheriff, in full armor. The other is the black-clad Celtic chieftain. He sits as still as a rock.
95.		CONTINUED: HAL C... cccc... LITTLE JOHN C... ccc? What the bloody hell ya sayin'? Cows?... Cowards?... HAL Cccc... elts! WILL SCARLET Celts?   Where? HAL  Gggg... God help us.
96.		CONTINUED: LITTLE JOHN Stop 'ere and flippin' well fight 'em, that's what. Whadya say, lads? Half-hearted support from about a dozen men, including Tack. LITTLE JOHN Nay, reveren'. Ya best be goin' wi' the wenches. FRIAR This holy man believes in doing God's work with his hands.
robin		What are you doing?    Out of my way! ASLAN I saved your life. I will not let you give it away for no purpose. ROBIN Out of my way, damn you! ASLAN Does the witch still have possession of your senses? If we meet up with the survivors we may yet give them some help. And do some damage to the enemy. 
97.		CONTINUED: Robin debates.   Relents.   They urge their horses into a gallop.
98.		CONTINUED: Aslan is a   wild man. Steering his horse with just legs and knees,   he strikes out with both swords to left and right. The    momentum is turning. Wulf appears at the edge of the   clearing. Starts picking off stragglers. His father   spots him. LITTLE JOHN Git the bleedin' 'ell outa there, ya li'l bugger. Distracted, he doesn't see a Celt swing at his back... but Wulf's arrow pierces the man's adam's apple. He freezes in mid-air, before toppling at John's feet. When John turns back, Wulf is being dragged away by three of the Sherrif's men. He attempts to pursue, but is intercepted by two more Celts... and struck down. Aslan charges between the two Celts. Slashes down with both swords. Both men topple to the ground simultaneously. Suddenly all is quiet.    The smoking clearing is a mass of fallen bodies. Only    four men seem to be alive. Robin, Aslan, Tuck, who   is slouched against a tree gasping for breath, and   Hal, who kneels clutching his wounded shoulder. Robin dismounts and runs to Little John. Overwhelmed and exhausted, he slumps over the giant's unmoving form. LITTLE JOHN Don't 'ee start bleedin' blubberin', or ya'll make me bloody vomit.
99.		CONTINUED: ROBIN You were an honor to your countrymen today, Aslan. You fought better than twenty English knights. ASLAN This war is the God of Abraham against the forces of evil. ROBIN Well, the war is over. He stares across the desolate clearing.
robin		There is too much blood on my hands.
100.		CONTINUED: NOTTINGHAM  You will all be tortured. You will all tell me all you know about Robin Hood, and then you will all be hanged. Then we will catch your beloved Robin Hood and do the same to him. WILL SCARLET I will kill him for you. WULF Will, no! Nottingham strides up to Will, drawing his sword.
nottingham		Why would I need you? WILL SCARLET All your attempts to kill him have failed. Your army failed. Your Celtic mercenaries failed. Nottingham places his sword point against Will's throat. NOTTINGHAM And you can succeed? WILL SCARLET I am one of his men. He would never suspect me. WULF He knows you always hated him, traitor.
will scarlet		He is a trusting fool. He will believe me. If he doesn't, he will kill me and you have lost nothing. Nottingham slides his blade between Will's teeth. NOTTINGHAM If you fail, I will personally cut out your lying tongue. He withdraws the blade.    Will tries to smile. WILL SCARLET And if I succeed? 
101.		CONTINUED: NOTTINGHAM His friends will..  ... torture him! He turns back to Will.   A smile of mock apology. NOTTINGHAM It will look better.
aslan		And you? ROBIN I am no longer your responsibility. ASLAN That is for me to decide. ROBIN 
102.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Damn you, too, Father.   You reared a coward and a fool. He hurls the medallion... it catches on a low-hanging branch. CUT TO:
november moon		Watery, full. The FOCUS SHIFTS TO the medallion, dangling in its center... the last thing Robin sees before his eyes close into troubled sleep. The white moon against the black sky... DISSOLVE TO:
robin's face		DISTORTED in water. The LAUGHTER BECOMES the sound of a RUNNING RIVER. Robin is washing, trying to drive away the horror. 
103.		CONTINUED: The first streaks of light fight their way through a thick, morning mist. Out of the mist steps a figure, at first indecipherable. Aware of his presence, Robin looks up. ROBIN Will!    I thought you were taken. WILL SCARLET I was. ROBIN How did you escape? WILL SCARLET I promised to kill you. ROBIN And will you? Before Will can answer, Little John runs up.     Grabs Will's throat. LITTLE JOHN I'll wring yer scrawny neck, Will Scarlet. I'd be doin' yer a bloody favor an' all. Quickly, others arrive. Aslan, Tuck, Hal, Fanny, with kids clinging to her skirts. FANNY Afore ya kill 'im, John, ask 'im if Wulf be still alive. Will is choking, unable to speak. John loosens his hold just enough for Will to splutter out... WILL SCARLET Y... e... LITTLE JOHN Git us a rope, Hal, and we'll put the bleedin' weasel outa 'is misery. ROBIN John, wait.    Let us hear what he has to say. LITTLE JOHN No bugger 'scapes the Sheriff, 'nless 'e's linin' 'is bloomin' pockets. 
104.		CONTINUED: ROBIN A traitor sneaks in and out under cover of darkness. Will walked in and announced himself. LITTLE JOHN  Aye.    'E always did 'ave balls o' brass. HAL Let's sss... string 'im up. ROBIN Let him speak.
fanny		What about my boy? WILL SCARLET The boy, too.    Ten men in all. Fanny drops her head on John's shoulder. WILL SCARLET Their   deaths are a warning. Anyone   who associates with the outlaw   Hood is to suffer the same fate.    Man, woman, or child. Even anyone   who so much as utters his name. 
105.		CONTINUED: FRIAR Robin Hood! Robin Hood! Robin Hood!  May as well be hung for a sheep as a lamb. WILL SCARLET The hangings are to be part of the celebration for the Sheriff's marriage. LITTLE JOHN Marriage, eh? What lucky wench gits to play with the Sheriff's codpiece? Will turns his gaze directly on Robin. WILL SCARLET Lady Marian. FRIAR He takes a bride of royal blood? LITTLE JOHN Aye, and then with King Richard gone, he takes the bloody throne. Everyone reacts with shock.     Only Robin appears unsur- prised. ROBIN You were to use this news to get close to me, and then kill me? Right, Will?
106.		CONTINUED: Robin is on the spot.    All eyes on him.   Will presses his point. WILL SCARLET Will ya stay and keep us fightin' till every man jack of us is dead? Or will you run like the spoiled little rich boy I always took you for? ROBIN You present quite a choice.    What would you have me do, Will? WILL SCARLET If you run, I will kill you. ROBIN And if I stay, will you all stay with me? Robin checks the other faces. ASLAN To the end, friend. FRIAR If my heathen brother stays, I stay. HAL Mmmm... meee... tttt... He can't get it out.    Little John covers Hal's mouth. LITTLE JOHN 'E's in. We're all bloody in. Daft buggers. ROBIN There's your answer, Will.    We finish it.
107.		INT. DUNGEON - DUSK The sound of the gallows ECHOES inside the damp, stone walls. Wulf and the other woodsmen are chained to rings in the floor. Wulf lifts his eyes to a chink of light high in the wall. The purple sky is turning black. He fingers his wooden crucifix. WULF If it be your biddin' that this be my last night o' life, Lord, gimme the pluck to die proud. An' look 'ee kindly on my folks an' the young 'uns. The light in the cell melts to total darkness.
branches		Sunlight glistens on frost-laden branches.      A COCK ROBIN CHIRPS.
108.		CONTINUED: ROBIN Will it work? Aslan throws a handful of powder into the firel A fire- ball rips ten feet in the air... Tuck falls on his ass in terror. ROBIN  ... I would surely be one. Robin reaches out and shakes Aslan's hand. A moment of bonding. He moves on to the others, clasping each man's hand as he speaks. ROBIN We have no armored knights, no glorious banners. But I am honored to be going to battle in this company. Today we fight not just for the lives of our friends, but to save all England. A moment of tension before Will takes the proferred hand. ROBIN We may be only six men, but... FANNY Seven!
109.		CONTINUED: FANNY You go an' birth eight babies and then you can come an' tell me 'bout hurtin', ya big ox. I ain't gonna sit aroun' an' let one o' 'em die, neither. LITTLE JOHN Ya should be bloody well mindin' the other seven. Tell 'er, Rob. Robin starts to draw a diagram on the ground with a stick. ROBIN Fanny, show me the exact location of the scaffold. Little John double-takes.
110.		CONTINUED: MARIAN  I will never marry you. Mortianna emerges from a dark corner, bearing the goblet she used at the Druid ceremony. MORTIANNA Hold her! Marian struggles against her bonds. MARIAN Get away from me, you disgusting hag. I will not... augh!
111.		CONTINUED: MORTIANNA The blood does not lie. NOTTINGHAM  Tell me how it will result. MORTIANNA I have told you what I know. NOTTINGHAM Confound you, crone. Without my protection, the people would hunt you down, rip out your black heart and burn it.
112.		CONTINUED: GUARD  I'll warrant. Pass.
113.		CONTINUED: WILL SCARLET I want your word, in front of these witnesses. If I tell you, I will go free. NOTTINGHAM  We will find him. WILL SCARLET He is concealed. He is going to free the prisoners and stop the wedding. Nottingham's jaw tightens.   Eyes the prisoners, the scaffold. NOTTINGHAM Put Hood in my hands, you go free. WILL SCARLET With the reward. Ten thousand crowns. NOTTINGHAM Damn your worthless hide!    Just tell me where he is. WILL SCARLET The reward! The parade of prisoners reaches them. Seeing Will, Wulf charges at him, screaming in blind rage. Soldiers grab Wulf. Throw him down, kicking and beating. Voices in the crowd plead to let him be. Someone tries to intervene, gets hurled down.
nottingham		 You'll get your reward. Where is he? CUT TO:
114.		CONTINUED: Across the square, Will points urgently in Tuck's direction.
nottingham		Step down, friar. FRIAR As you wish, sire. Is there something amiss? NOTTINGHAM This man claims you have outlaws concealed in these barrels. Among them the cursed Robin Hood. Tuck glares at Will with unconcealed hatred. FRIAR This man will rot in hell as a knave and a liar. These are libations for the celebration of your lordship's nuptials. 
115.		CONTINUED: NOTTINGHAM Break one open! FRIAR  Why waste fine vintage, my lord? A cask is shattered... wine torrents out. WILL SCARLET Try another. There are many barrels, only a few outlaws. A drum roll. The Sheriff's attention turns to the scaffold, where the first victim is escorted up the steps -- Wulf. Tense, Tuck pulls a tinder box from his robes, strikes a flame.
116.		EXT. CITY PARAPET - DAY John struggles over the battlement.   Collapses. FANNY 'Bout time, ya gurt lug. She wrenches the longbow from his back, fumbles for an arrow. FANNY We be too late.
117.		CONTINUED: The burning fuse-cord reaches the barrel. Tuck hurls the smoking barrel thundering towards the Sheriff... Spotting it, Nottingham urges his horse over his own men in his effort to escape. The Chieftain smites at Robin... his blow is blocked... by the Celt with the boar's head. KAABOOM! The GUNPOWDER in the barrel EXPLODES. Spewing smoke and wood. SCREAMS of panic. Soldiers fly. Mass confusion. Amidst the smoke... Robin's sword slashes through Wulf's rope. He hauls him onto the platform.
from parapet		John and Fanny peer down as the smoke clears. They watch Wulf struggle to his feet. A Celt sneaks up behind him. LITTLE JOHN Fight fair... 
118.		CONTINUED: He aims.   Grits his teeth... picks off the Celt with a shaft. LITTLE JOHN ...Or don't fight at all.
on scene		Robin leaps and swings from gallows to gallows, kicking out, slashing down. Sends two Celts hurtling down the trap hole. Will battles the Sheriff. A reprise of his own fight with Robin, the roles reversed. The Sheriff, armed and mounted, flails at Will, who, unarmed, dodges in and around the horse's legs. Aslan and the Chieftain are locked in mortal combat. Aslan stumbles back and falls. The Chieftain swipes at his head. Aslan rolls aside. The sword smashes wood. Tuck surrounded, rolls another smoking BARREL... It EXPLODES. The Greybeard Baron spots Little John and Fanny on the parapet. GREYBEARD BARON Up there!   No mercy, shoot them! Crossbowmen on the opposite parapet fire.      Bolts ricochet all around Little John and Fanny.
on scene		Aslan evades the charging Chieftain. Drop-kicks a soldier, takes his sword, and whirls back at the Chieftain. His blows have no effect on the Scot's black armor. The Sheriff rears his horse... hooves flail.. knocking Will to his knees. The Sheriff lunges... Desperate, Will grasps the sword, ignoring the pain... a tug of war. Blood pours from Will's hands, where the blade cuts in. He suddenly lets go... Nottingham topples from his horse. Will leaps on him. 
119.		CONTINUED: WILL SCARLET Pain or death, you butcher? The Sheriff's men drag Will off before he can choke him. Raging, Nottingham climbs to his feet. Will is held by four men. NOTTINGHAM Here's another message to Robin Hood, written in your blood. He drives his sword repeatedly, insanely, into Will's belly. WILL SCARLET It's over, fool. You can kill my body, but you cannot kill our spirit. He finally drops... Nottingham heads for the castle. Robin attempts to follow. He swings from the noose, using the rope to vault over the surrounding soldiers. As he lands, he is waylaid by one of the barons and his men. REDHEAD BARON It's Hood!   Get him! The Chieftain knocks Aslan down.   Aslan loses his sword. CHIEFTAIN I am iron.   I am rock. I am your death. Aslan spots one of John's arrows protruding from a dead Celt's back. Scrambles over and tears it out. ASLAN You talk too much! He leaps... rams the arrow through the Chieftain's mouthpiece... out the back of his neck. The Chieftain grabs his helmet, trying to rip it off. He topples, his life's blood gushing from both sides of his neck. Aslan plants a foot on the slain warrior. ASLAN Englishmen! I am not one of you, yet I fight for you. Against a tyrant. Join me now. Join Robin Hood. The onlookers are inspired. Grabbing weapons from fallen soldiers, many join the fray. 
120.		CONTINUED: Nottingham runs through the castle gate.   Angry peasants pursue. NOTTINGHAM Lower the portcullis! Now! A guard winds down the giant gate.   Nottingham hurls him aside. NOTTINGHAM Too slow, fool! He hacks at the ropes. The gate slices down like a guillotine, pinning soldiers and peasants alike.
121.		CONTINUED: NOTTINGHAM Seal the entrance. Guard it with your lives. ... Bring the bishop to my chapel.
122.		CONTINUED: Robin snaps the reins, steering the rumbling cart across the yard. Bouncing in the back, Tuck lights barrels. FUSES smoke and CRACKLE. ROBIN Jump! Tuck jumps. Robin steers the wagon at the gate. At the last second, he slashes the reins and leaps onto the horse's back... The BARRELS EXPLODE! The portcullis is blown to kingdom come. Out of the smoke, Robin rides the old nag like a charger. Leads his cheering, ragged fighters through the open gate.
123.		CONTINUED: The man refuses to speak. Robin looks up the corridor, sees six men guarding the private chapel's arched door- way. ROBIN Ah!   There is my answer. He hurls the man aside... The armed guards charge him.
124.		CONTINUED: ROBIN I warned you, I would find you no matter what. NOTTINGHAM No companions? No army? You rush to your death for the sake of a woman. Lust has turned you into a fool... Recognize this, Locksley? He raises his sword to reveal its handle. A crucifix sculpted into the hilt... Robin's father's sword. NOTTINGHAM Appropriate I should use it to kill you with, don't you think? He lunges. A savage, accomplished swordsman, with fire in his eyes. Exhausted, Robin is driven back, parrying desperately.
friar		Give my regards to the devil. The KEG ERUPTS, blowing the jailer through a wall.
125.		CONTINUED: WULF Sorry, Father. Couldn't help myself. LITTLE JOHN Well, ya'll get a bloody good wallopin' if we get 'ome... For now, let's see how well I taught ya. Wulf sends an attacker plummeting off the parapet.
126.		CONTINUED: FANNY  Turn that on the Sheriff and his bullies. A deadly pause. A woman cook dumps the giant wedding cake right over the chef. Suddenly it's havoc. Flying food and cutlery.
aslan		Ali akbar! FRIAR Amen! MORTIANNA 
127.		CONTINUED: The Bishop makes his escape.    Tuck blocks his path. FRIAR So! You sold your soul to the devil? BISHOP No, I swear it, in God's name. FRIAR Blasphemer! You accuse innocent men of Druid worship while you practice the black arts yourself. The Bishop surreptitiously draws a dagger from his robes.
bishop		 I am sure you would not strike a man of the cloth. FRIAR Think again! Without an eyeblink's pause, Tuck punches the Bishop so hard, he flies back THROUGH a stained-glass WINDOW.
128.		CONTINUED: ASLAN What you fear is not below. He charges at her with the bloody spear. She screams hideously as he thrusts it right through her chest. Her madness is superhuman. With strength beyond all reason, she crawls up the spear's shaft, forcing it further through her body in her effort to get at him. Clutching, screeching, hissing. Her talons groping at his face, Aslan strains to the last ounce of his will and heaves her over the battle- ments. With an ear-splitting shriek, she plummets to the ground.
****Dialogues from script :Rock.txt****

hummel		Hi Barb.  The house sold yesterday.  I know, I know, the market's depressed. Anyway, I'm leaving the area.  Some things I have to do.  Things I couldn't do while you were here.  Maybe you would have approved.  Hell, I know you wouldn't have.  I've tried everything and I can't seem to get their attention.  But now they'll learn how it feels on the other side.  Let's hope it elevates their thinking.
hummel		Held better be.  This is a security inspection.
goodspeed		 You owe me five dollars, Marvin.
isherwood		 I was told this was exciting work.
goodspeed		 July 1, 0.900 hours, agent william Goodspeed and agent/trainee Marvin Isherwood.  Initiating exam of a wooden crate.  Suspicion of seran gas device inside.
goodspeed		I don't like needles.
goodspeed		Not now.
carla		Billy, this probably isn't the best time ... Bill, I'm uhhh.
hummel		Hello Ladies and Gentlemen.  You are my prisoners.  I have no intention of harming you.  You will be fed regularly.  That is all you need to know for now.
carla		Like hell I'm not...
jade angelou		 Yes.  Who is this?
captain hendrix		Maybe now they won't.
captain darrow		Prepare for launch General?  General?
captain darrow		Eleven fifty-seven, General.  Three minutes to go.
captain darrow		I understand it.  They're calling our bluff.  We have two operational rockets left.  We have to stick one of those rockets in their ear, General.
goodspeed		You'll never make it.
captain darrow		Major?
captain darrow		Give that to me.
captain darrow		You know how this shit works?
****Dialogues from script :RocknRolla.txt****

one two		We need to see a Lawyer.
lawyer type		They say it's only going one way.
lawyer type		It looks like a great deal.
lawyer type		These are the plans,...it costs ten and it'll be worth twenty with planning. But first you gotta give the councilor a drink.
councilor		 Tell them they'll get the planning,...
lawyer type		You'll get the planning. Take care of the councilor and it will move like shit through a goose.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                               2A.
one two		We need help.
mumbles		Lenny Cole?
one two		Dog number one,...
mumbles		But he moves fast and he loves bricks and mortar.
lenny cole		I do move fast and I love bricks and mortar, properties are always the safe bet, but you better know what you're doing 'cos this ain't soft money. You trip up,...  And it's not me that's gonna get hurt. You got security?
mumbles		We got property.
lenny cole		Don't let me down boys.  Come on then, give us your hand. They shake hands and sign the papers.
councilor		 Can't talk now, but there has been a problem. I can't get you the planning.
lawyer type		 I'm sorry boys, can't get the planning.
one two		He can't get the planing.
mumbles		He can't get the planing?
lenny cole		What do you mean you can't get the fuckin planning?  There is seven million of my cash in there, without planning it's worth five,...you owe me. I take the building, you lose your share, but I am still outta pocket two large ones. Find it.
lenny cole		Is that you Councilor?  I hear you got that car you was after,....now, sort the planning out.
lenny cole		What's wrong with you Arch? ARCHY That's a bit strong isn't it Len? They come from the same place as you, you'll clean 'em out.
lenny cole		Same place as me? Do I look like an immigrant Archy?  No one gave me a leg up, did they? They need a bit of fear, 'cos otherwise they're gonna come up against me,...need a little lesson don't they?
one two		We gotta sell.
mumbles		And be left with what?
one two		Just gotta start again,....
uri		Glad you could join us here Lenny.
lenny cole		It's nice to see you Uri.
uri		Good.  What's it going to cost me?
lenny cole		First, let me make clear how much we can help you benefit from this deal. With out me, it will take you five to ten years to get the permission to erect your arena.  Thirdly, in legal fees, transactions and building consent, you'd be paying 6 to 12 million without any real guarantee of that result.
uri		So Lenny,..... how much?
lenny cole		Seven million Euros.
uri		I expect a guarantee that I have consent within six months and no red tape.
lenny cole		That's right Uri, you can consider that done.
uri		Drink!     Follow me. 16   INT. SPORTS ARENA - PRIVATE BAR                                 16
lenny cole		Oh, that's a nice picture Uri, hasn't it got, errrh depth?
uri		That picture has brought me nothing but luck Lenny,..it's my lucky picture.  You like? Take it for a while, maybe it will give you luck.
lenny cole		Oh I couldn't Uri,...
uri		Now we're partners, I insist. I will get it sent around to your house and you can give it back to me when our deal is finalized.
lenny cole		I thought you lot drunk Vodka.
uri		Whiskey is the new Vodka.
lenny cole		You not joining me Uri?
uri		I don't drink.
lenny cole		Oh,...cheers then,...
uri		To success.
archy		You all right there Len?      You look a little pink.
lenny cole		 Turbo, get us a perrier and a wet wipe live-o.
lenny cole		That Communism didn't seem to slow 'em down did it? We've hit the big time here Archy boy!  What's wrong? Where's the old Archy smile?
archy		You wanna watch out there. Times are changing, they don't have too much respect for the old school.
lenny cole		Shut up Archy,...  No school like the old school,...I still run this town see? That's why he came to me right? Got that?
archy		Yeah, got that.
victor		You think you should have leant him your lucky picture? URI It makes the peasant feel royal,... don't spoil it, we need him at the moment. I want that consent.  Call the accountant and get her to clear the money.
stella		Look, can we shut the door?
tax man		Shut the door.
stella		Let's put our cards on the table. We both know you aren't going to get the full forty out of my clients.
tax man		This is the tax office and in the end we get what we want.
stella		Save that speech for the tourists Charlie and let's strike a deal - take the twenty now and let it go. Otherwise, they'll move the company off shore tomorrow and you'll spend the next twenty years chasing an imaginary forty million around every republic that grows bananas.
tax man		I see why you married her now Bertie.
bertie		I told you we'd make a great team,.. You know why you get those deals?
stella		I don't feel like smiling. I am a thirty two year old accountant married to a homosexual lawyer.  I'm a beard without kids Bertie! I'm in a marriage of convenience that can be quite inconvenient at times.
bertie		Yes, she's right here. 
handsome bob		What are you talking about Fred? They got an informer, a grass, and a rat with a roach-smoking-a canary,..they've got more information than the fuckin Internet.
dolly		Language,...
mumbles		Leave him alone Fred, you're stressing him out. Dolly get him a cuppa tea.  Come on deal the cards Fred.
cookie		All right chaps?
mumbles		Want to be dealt in?
cookie		Can't stay for long, but throw us in for a quick spin.
one two		Mumbles, can I have a word?
mumbles		What's happening?
one two		You know the lady, the posh one who likes abitta the rough life?
mumbles		The accountant, what about her? You haven't heard from her in a while, too dangerous that one.
one two		Says she's got some work, you know,... proper work.  I would normally turn her down, but considering,...
mumbles		Let's have a meet.
one two		I got one like that at home with a little boy fishing.
stella		Is that what they call humor where you come from? ONE TWO Well, don't they call that art where you come from?
stella		You're quite the entertainer aren't you Mr. One Two? And you are late, please don't be late, I have a very busy schedule.
stella		I have some work and thought you'd be interested, its your kind of work.
one two		Go on.
stella		There are two accountants taking out seven million Euros from a bank I know and it won't be protected.  Twenty percent for me, as normal. The details are in here.
one two		Anything else?
stella		Yes,..I don't want this coming back to me so, if you could give them a black eye,..that might help. She see's a slight pause and look of concern from One Two.
one two		Ok, very good Mrs. Dexter, a black eye it is then.
stella		 Why thank you, you'll be able to afford your own pair in a couple of days. Good bye.
rocker		I need the dry ice Mickey, I need the dry ice. My show just doesn't work without it.
mickey		 If you told me yesterday you needed dry ice, I would have gotten you the driest ice the world could offer, but you didn't ask for no dry ice. You asked for two cases of Johnny Walker black label and four ladies of the pole and I got them for you didn't I?
rocker		Yes you did I do confess, but Mickey, you're the manager and I am the rocker. You've got on the managers hat, now pluck something out of it.
mickey		My hat is deep and full of magic. I got rabbits, handkerchiefs, and ladies of the pole drinking Black Label. I got smoke machines, bubble machines, I even got love marines and still the hat goes deeper, but....there ain't no mother fuckin dry ice.
roman		Have you read this?
mickey		What?
roman		Johnny Story singer extraordinaire, fell off a boat, they say. Missing, assumed dead, they say.
mickey		What,..our Johnny?
roman		How many rock stars by the name of Johnny Story do you think there are in this universe Mickey?
mickey		The only thing he's fallen off is his junkies spoon, he's no deader than the suit you're wearing now. He'll be gearing himself up somewhere happy as clam in a fisherman's net. Rockers like that never die, they just wither and give me pain.
lenny cole		Johnny Story singer extraordinare, fell off a boat, missing, assumed dead.
archy		I don't know what to say Lenny.
lenny cole		I bet he took a lot of people with him in his hot little crack pipe.  We will never mention this again, all right Arch?
archy		Very good councilor, you must of had lessons as a boy.  Fancy a cool down and a chat with Lenny?
councilor		No, no, no, Archy, don't say anything. ARCHY Don't worry, she's a friend,..and a member.  Jackie,..fancy a run'a'round with the Councilor?
jackie		Only if he's wicked.
councilor		 What does she mean by that?
archy		I think she likes you boy-o.
lenny cole		They say that times are changing Councilor, that this country isn't what it used to be, it's the new New York, they say. You being a political man must know all about that.
councilor		Errh, I think they are probably right, times have changed, but that shouldn't affect you Lenny.
lenny cole		They say it's all gone "international" now, out with the old guard in with the new, but I think they're wrong.  Anyway, where are my manners? Look at you sweaty as a native and pink as a pelican,...and I haven't even offered you a wet one.
councilor		A lemonade and orange please. LENNY COLE Oh that's nice,..refreshing, that'll put you back on top boy.
councilor		I don't mind if I do,...that's a nice lighter.
lenny cole		Eight grand they wanted for it cheeky toads and I paid, you know why?
councilor		Tell me Lenny.
lenny cole		'Cos it's all about the details.
councilor		 Is our little deal in there too Lenny?
lenny cole		Oh I wouldn't forget that, the most important things first.
councilor		Oh Lenny, you forgot your lighter.
lenny cole		Can't be mine, it's got your name on it.
mumbles		Don't you get bored of that? I mean, your not really going anywhere. If you wanna run, why don't you run to the shops or do something useful?
one two		You could do with some of this yourself Mumbles, you're letting yourself go.  Anyway, I'm busy, have you come to talk about anything important?
mumbles		It's all about the zone isn't it? 
one two		No Mumbles, I am trying to run away from you. Bob, you sorted out the car?
handsome bob		Yeah, it looks like a heap of shit, but it can't half go.  A bit like you One Two.
mumbles		I reckon he's trying to get fit for the lady. Nothing gets under his skin like a lady he can't have, does it?  A straight going, cocky, educated, arrogant posh bird trips him right up. I reckon we should set Handsome Bob on her. That'll liven you up One Two.
one two		Bob wouldn't know where to begin.
handsome bob		I'm good with the posh ones, don't you worry about that.
one two		I've had enough of this, can you two piss off cos I am trying to find my "zone"
mumbles		He can't half run for a white fella.
lenny cole		Archy? You awake? 
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            19A.
bandy		Where was it Len?
lenny cole		Let's take a wild stab in the dark shall we Bandy? Archy slap him and then send him to school 'cos I can't take any more of this. You sort it out, get that picture back and bring me a body, I am going to back to bed.
archy		Bandy if you ever ask a stupid question like that again, you see Danny there? He's gonna slap you.
bandy		Sorry Arch, it's just,...I was trying to use initiative.
archy		Danny slap him.
danny		What is this a tennis match Arch?
archy		Slap him!
danny		But he never went to school.
archy		Daniel, do you want a slap as well? Now, if the slap doesn't work,..Cut 'em...or pay 'em, but keep the receipts 'cos this ain't the Mafia.  Now, get to work and find that painting.
mumbles		You ready?
one two		Yup, load up boys and pay attention.
mumbles		Don't be silly boys, do as you are told. Put the bags in the car, give him the keys and walk away smiling.
one two		 Oi, come back here.
accountant		You have to lift up the nob under the gear stick. One Two struggles, then finds the gear.
one two		Right, now fuck off.
mumbles		 Slowly and keep smiling.
one two		Shit,...
mumbles		What?
one two		I have got to hurt him.  Oi come back here. MUMBLES Why? What did he ever do to you? Come on we've got the money now let's piss off!
accountant		Yes?
one two		Shit, I can't do it.
mumbles		 You're an embarrassment to crime you are.
one two		She asked me to give him a black eye.
mumbles		She's sick that bird of yours, sick. Quickly changing the subject.
one two		Is Handsome Bob behind?
mumbles		He's there.
uri		The developement has been underway for four years and will be completed within another two. The area covers twelve acres and it will become one of Londons premiere residences.
victor		 It's not like the old country, it's cowboys and Indians out here.
uri		 And Victor, this time no problems.
one two		I know a man that'll copy that for you. Might take him a couple of minutes mind.
stella		You don't need to copy anything any more, welcome to the nouveau riche Mr. One Two.
one two		Here's one for you too Mrs Dexter.
stella		Why thank you Mr. One Two. I see you didn't think much of the black eye though.
one two		Would have liked to obliged, but from a professional point of view, it just wasn't natural,...  Until next time then.
stella		Until next time.
handsome bob		She's a looker ain't she One Two?
one two		She's not for you Bob, that is class.
archy		What, you got it all?
archy		I'll come round the speeler.
lenny cole		Archy, the Russian didn't come through with the money.
archy		Calm down Len, the Councilor can wait. 
lenny cole		What, all of it?
lenny cole		 Where did they get that from then?
archy		Ask no questions hear no lies.  Just gotta do is find your painting now Len.
lenny cole		Just make sure you find it.  I gotta another call.
councilor		I have all my people waiting Lenny. You can't let me down!
lenny cole		It's just a delay, that's all Councilor. Just a delay.
archy		Stop here Turbo.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            25A.
archy		Gary.
gary		Hello Arch. What brings you down here? Want some tickets?
archy		I want the Tank.
gary		You won't see him on the cobbles at this time of night, you know how much he likes the cold. He's at the end of the street tucked up watching a Zulu movie.
tank		Hello Arch, what you doing here?
archy		I need a word.
tank		Well don't stand out there on the cobbles it's freezing, step into my world.  Shavawn get us a couple of vanilla chai lattes, there's a good girl.
tank		Great movie this Arch. They've had it digitally re-mastered, glorious picture and the sounds exquisite.
archy		Turn it down a tad, I need to have a word.
tank		Where are my manners? Sorry Arch, what do you want, tickets? I got just the show for you, a Chinese orphan with a learning disability that don't stop singing and dancing all the way through the first half. Then, up pops a Geisha girl and it all goes magical in the second; the wife will love it and you can't get tickets for love nor,...
archy		I don't want tickets, I need you to find me a painting, a classic, been nicked outta of Lenny's house. And since you got more feet on the street than coppers on the beat,...  I'd like you to assist. I'll leave you a little livener. There's a large twenty to get some tongues wagging. 48   INT. SPEELER - NIGHT                                               48
one two		Is that Archy? 
handsome bob		Not again, please Fred.
dolly		Who wants another cuppa?
one two		 Thank you.
mumbles		Glass of milk for me, my love.
malcolm		Good afternoon gentlemen.
malcolm		 Ok gentlemen here we go. First, my colleague Paul will be modeling the grey wolf.
mumbles		Where did you find these two junkies?
one two		Shut up and tell us the price.
malcolm		All in good time gentlemen, all in good time.  Paul, why don't you sit down for a while.
mumbles		Have a look at that, it's a six foot skunk.
malcolm		And all of this could be yours for a staggeringly low,...
malcolm		Come on Paul, we'll be going now.
archy		Fred,...  The speelers very quiet today, everything all right?
archy		All right Mumbles?       One Two?
archy		So where is it then?
one two		What, can't you smell it?
archy		Silly bastards.
uri		They say there are only two days you enjoy a boat, the day you buy it and the day you sell it.
stella		Well, according to my figures that sounds about right, but what can you do?  Beauty is a cruel mistress.
uri		I must remember that line.        Can I pour you a glass?
stella		Not for me thank you.
uri		You know, I like you. I like the way you...are. Always thinking about business, very professional.
stella		That's what you pay me to be, isn't it?
uri		Tell me about your husband.
stella		My husband is a lawyer. URI I hear he is very good at what he does, maybe we can have some work for him.
stella		I don't quite know where this is going and if you don't mind, I would like to keep our relationship professional.
uri		You see Victor, this is what I am talking about. 
stella		 Forgive me for being immodest Mr Omovich. I am a very good accountant, but I can only cover so much of your money, it does have to be accounted for after all. It is not easy to lose seven million to the tax man.
uri		But, if you are so good,....
stella		Let me think about it, there are some options I have tried to leave open.
uri		Thank you.
tank		You know why they call me Tank don't you Archy?
archy		I should imagine it has something to do with you being a dirty great blac,...
tank		Think Tank. Nothing gets past the old think Tank Arch, nothing.  You got me thinking, so I fired a few questions into the right direction. Thought I'd better come see you 'cos I got some news 'bout your painting.
lenny cole		Right, I am going to tell you how this works. You're going in the drink and I am going to make a cup of tea.
one two		Come on Bob, cheer up.
handsome bob		What have I got to cheer up about, I am going to be locked up in an eight by ten tomorrow night.
one two		But that's tomorrow night, tonight its take off time, we've prepared a little going away party. 
handsome bob		 It's not that I am ungrateful One Two, it's just,....
one two		It's just what?
handsome bob		Don't worry,..you wouldn't understand.
handsome bob		Would you?
one two		You're me best mate.
handsome bob		I don't want the strippers One Two,....  I want you,....
one two		You dirty bastard! I know all your girlfriends all of 'em!
handsome bob		 See, I told you you wouldn't understand!
one two		Understand what? 
handsome bob		I only told you cos I'm going away, but I should have kept my mouth shut.
one two		Fuckin right you should have kept your mouth shut, should have drowned the cat instead of letting it out the bag.
one two		All right Bob, I am sorry.        I went over the top, it was just a       surprise that's all.  Well what is it you want to       do with me?
drowned sloane		Johnny, Johnny Story. You know the singer in that group Story Time.
lenny cole		That didn't work did it? How can a dead man sell you a painting?
drowned sloane		He's not dead, I know he's not dead because he just tried to sell us that picture and changed his mind at the last minute. He's got like an obsession with it.
lenny cole		Put 'em back Arch, before I shoot 'em.
archy		Len, could I have a word?    Private,.. it's worth it.
archy		Your boy's not dead, is he?
lenny cole		 Don't you dare call him my boy.
archy		Sorry, I mean your boy, the Ex's boy,...your step son. He had a set of keys to the house didn't he?
lenny cole		He won't die that cockroach. 
archy		Roman and Mickey.
lenny cole		If anyone can find that smoking crack pipe, it's them.
lenny cole		Listen to me boy, listen. I never did like you and neither did your real father. You're a reject, a wrong-un, a fuckin fairy in the mirror that I inherited from your mother, but she ain't with us no more, so now it's just you and me. In one week you go back to school, the best fuckin school in the country I might add, then you'll be gone for another term.  In the mean time, show me some gratitude and keep the fuckin music down.
johnny story		Just couldn't, it's got me,...that's what art does Pete, it gets you.
pete		You'd get a good few notes for that. Go on John, jog it on.
johnny story		You wouldn't understand.
pete		Why not? JOHNNY STORY Because,.....You,.... Are street scum Pete.
pete		Leave off John, what is this shrink time?
johnny story		Come on Pedro, share. I'm your sponsor, Doctor,...your dad if you're feeling a bit of regression coming on.  But first we should have a drink in our hands.
pete		My Dad made me watch Bonanza every Sunday after church.
johnny story		That's got to have done some damage, all those guns and cowboys.
pete		You think? It wasn't all bad, he sometimes made me laugh too.
johnny story		Now we're getting somewhere. Did he interfere with you? You know, touch you inappropriate like?
pete		He tickled me if that's what you mean.
johnny story		Now that's it! That's what I was looking for, you see your Dad is a monster Pedro, a tickling monster.  Pedro's dad's a tickling monster!
waster		That's my drink.
pete		Fuck you singalong, you're no help and stop calling me Pedro.
johnny story		Come on boy, I'll have you and ya girlfriends! I'll do the lot of yazz.
pete		He hit me bad as well the slag.        Hit with a chain.
johnny story		 What are you doing? I'm not going to tickle you Pete, I'm not your Dad.
pete		I used to think it had something to do with Bonanza.
johnny story		Your dad was jealous. Cos you dad isn't sure he's your dad, cos you don't look like him.
pete		Really?     What do I look like then?
johnny story		You have all the facial characteristics of North American native, Livapuddlian Indian. 
pete		Really?
archy		Who wanna see you two.
secretary		I'm sorry Mickey.
mickey		Don't worry about it June, go and have another lunch.
lenny cole		Sorry to intrude.  They call this a lichee don't they? ROMAN I believe so.
lenny cole		Tasty exotic, bit like your suit.
roman		How can we help?
lenny cole		Don't you have an act called Story Time?
roman		We did.
lenny cole		And isn't there a lead singer called Johnny Story?
roman		There was.
lenny cole		Well, I would like to see Mr Johnny Story.
roman		I would like to see him too, but that might be tricky 'cos according to the newspapers the only songs Mr Story is going to be singing is hymns.
lenny cole		And I shed a tear. I shed it for all those bone tops that read the papers and believe that shit.  No, you didn't did you? And nobody else fuckin did either, did they 'cos he ain't dead. He's alive-alive- o somewhere selling cockles and mussels,...and a very important painting that doesn't belong to him. ROMAN Sorry, but what has this got to do with us?
lenny cole		You have twelve licenses within a jurisdiction which I control. You wanna play on, do what I tell you.  Now, I can tell what you're thinking.
roman		That there's not much you can't do?
archy		Slow down tinker bell, you'll never sing the same if ya teeth aren't your own.
mickey		You gonna take care of him?
lenny cole		 What do you think we are, gangsters? That's not my style and especially not with genetics and all,...
cookie		Where have you been? You were missed in court today. That's not very compassionate is it, didn't turn up for your amigos funeral.
one two		What are you trying to say Fred?
one two		You wanna have it out now?
handsome bob		Guess whoooo?
one two		 Five years, you were supposed to get five fucking years!
dolly		One Two there's a woman on the phone for you, she sounds very educated.
one two		How did you get this number?
one two		One point for initiative, two to tell me what's on your mind.
one two		Let me see what I can do.
one two		So Bob got off, big fucking deal.  I have a little bit of work for you Cookie we have a party to go to.
uri		You're looking well Lenny.
lenny cole		Well thank you Uri, that's a real compliment from a man that obviously takes good care of himself.
uri		I suppose you're wondering why you are here?
lenny cole		I assume you want to check that everything is still "kosher" at my end.  I was a little surprised you didn't come through at the appropriate time, but I reckon you have your reasons. Silence.
uri		I assume everything is still as you say,...Kosher?
lenny cole		Don't you worry Uri, that one's on me,...partners and all that, but I wouldn't like it to go south again, makes things difficult, if you know what I mean?
uri		I understand Lenny and I wouldn't like things to go wrong either. Which brings me conveniently to my next point. Ever since the painting, my lucky painting, hasn't been hanging on my wall, things have not been,....so lucky. I know this is a rude request because we have not concluded our business, but I feel as though I need it.
archy		Fuckin hell Len, he's given you that bar tan again. You wanna leave that vodka alone.
lenny cole		Shut up Arch!
archy		Everything all right?
lenny cole		No it's fuckin not all right, he want's his painting, his lucky painting.
archy		Oh, I see. That's a bit of a problem then isn't it?
lenny cole		You should have seen his eyes I swore they changed color, went fuckin red they did.
archy		They don't care who's soil they are on that lot. They can buy half the country without breaking a sweat, you're small time to them. They could click their fingers and we'd be ether.
lenny cole		You speak to me like that again and I'll cut your fuckin tongue out. I run this town, got that, me! Anybody who thinks he's rude enough, let 'em raise a finger, 'cos I'll take off his whole fuckin arm. Do you understand that Archy?  I said do YOU?
archy		Yes, I do Len.
mickey		How about that then, Johnny Story's father? How did that get under the radar? Why doesn't anybody know?
roman		Would you want anyone to know that he was your Dad? Would we have taken him on if we had known?
mickey		We're going to have to give him something, anything, a bed that's been slept in, a bone for his dog, some token of effort.
roman		We need to see Cookie.
tom		 Who are you?
cookie		My name is Cookie.
tom		You must be with Stella?
cookie		No, we're with the Grand Old Duke of York.
cookie		 This is gonna be a scream, Fred get 'em in.
mumbles		'Cos you look like one of them.
cookie		And take that chewing gum off your feet before you start dancing.
stella		Good evening gentlemen.
tom		 So! Who the man?
one two		I think that's your cue Cookie. Cookie takes his cue.
cookie		Come on then kids, get in a nice orderly line and we'll get the party started.
one two		What the fuck are you doing here?
handsome bob		Well all the chaps were coming and I didn't have any plans tonight did I? Thought I might celebrate a little, do you mind?
one two		Yes I do fuckin mind. Now listen Bob, what happened last night is our little secret all right and it was only cos you were supposed to be doing your time, right? You tell anybody and I swear to God,.... I swear to God. Well fuck it Bob, I think you understand.
rocknrolla		 YELLOW Revision   -   6-20-07                            49B.
mumbles		Does she now?
bertie		So is your friend part of the wild bunch?
mumbles		That young man is the greatest gun slinger in town.
bertie		 I know all about your type.
mumbles		How is that then? BERTIE I'm a criminal lawyer,..and I know a secret about your part of town.
mumbles		What secrets that then?
bertie		You have an informer in your neck of the woods.
mumbles		Oh yeah, so what's his name?
bertie		You have to pay for secrets. 
mumbles		That's not nice, but while your at it, what's the price?
bertie		 I want to meet the gun slinger.
stella		Drink? ONE TWO Large one,...Dance?
stella		So, you're a dancer?
one two		Am I a dancer? Shall we put the record straight?
one two		Hello, I can sense a little competition. So what you got for me?
stella		The same job's back on again.
one two		Oh yea?  Don't throw my rhythm.
stella		Same time, same place, same money.
one two		What about security?
stella		Same as before, but they're not my accountants. A couple of their's,..other than that, should be just the same.
mumbles		Handsome, I got a job for you.    See that man on the couch.
handsome bob		The one that's staring at us?    How can I miss him.
mumbles		Do me a favor, chat him up.
handsome bob		Fuck off what do think I am?
mumbles		He's some big wig lawyer who knows about an informer in our part of town and since you were just looking at a five stretch, I thought you might be interested.
one two		We got another job on, same as before. 
mumbles		It's all go around here isn't it? Den of iniquity this place is. You know your old lady, well her big time lawyer husband he's a beard got a crush on the Handsome.
one two		What are you talking about?
mumbles		Put it this way, I don't think they married for love.
one two		I gotta get a breath of fresh air.
handsome bob		So, I hear you have a secret, but you look like you might have more than one. Why don't you confess?
bertie		I don't want to talk about work.
handsome bob		If you tell me who the informer is, we will talk about whatever you want to, anyway, you don't have to tell me anything. If he's an informer you'll have his depositions and poems.
bertie		My, my not just a pretty face. How do you know about those sort of things?
handsome bob		Let's have a drink during the week, and I'll tell you all about it, all I need is a little bit of paper work.
cookie		Oi One Two, I am going to make a killing out of this lot, they've definitely got more money than brains.  I owe you one boyo.
johnny story		Pedro?   Come back here.
pete		 You never said it was your Dad's or whatever you wanna call him. You gotta give it back John people are looking for it, bad people. The streets are alive with the sound of pain.
johnny story		You may have a point Pete, but I can't give it up. You know why?
pete		No, why?
johnny story		Meet me in the pub in two minutes.
barman		What do you want?
johnny story		Now, now no need for that tone bar steward. I am merely on mission to acquire a shot of your finest Scotch and a packet of your,...  Cheapest rolling paper.
barman		Green or red?
johnny story		King size of course - along with a packet of your shiniest coffin nails.
barman		Don't make a scene in here boy.
johnny story		Put the change in the blind box my good man and remember,...
pete		Yeah.
johnny story		All you need to know about life is retained within those four walls.
pete		 Oh you are something special Johnny Story.
mumbles		We'll use rock salt in the shot gun cartridges. Slip 'em into the revolver, if it starts getting large, we'll bang a couple in to 'em and that'll slow 'em down. They won't know the difference between lead or salt and of course Bob's driving.
one two		I don't want to use Bob.
mumbles		What? He's our driver, the A-teams not complete without the driver.  What's happened between you and Bob?
one two		I think there might be something about Bob you don't know Mumbles.
mumbles		What's that then?       That he's a poof?
one two		What?   Eh?   How did you know?
mumbles		Everybody knows he's a flamer, you're the only one who doesn't. He loves the boys.
one two		 What are you talking about, I am losing orientation here Mumbles.
mumbles		Did he make a pass at you, is this what this is all about?
one two		Yes, he fuckin did.
mumbles		Ok so what's the problem? It was supposed to be his last night so you "took care" of him, that's what friends do for one another, well done, I won't tell the chaps.
one two		Hold on a minute, you won't tell the chaps what?
mumbles		What did you do?        Suck his,...
one two		Stop right fuckin there! What is going on here? Does that mean you've sucked his,...
mumbles		Well, you must have touched him.
one two		Hold on! I am not fucking gay!           He wanted a dance that's all!
mumbles		Did you give him one?
one two		A DANCE, yes, I did.
mumbles		Was it a slow dance?
one two		What has he done to me?
mumbles		I think there's something else you should know about our Bob.
one two		What, there's more?
mumbles		Who do you think looked after your Mum before she died, whilst you were doing a two stretch? 
one two		He looked after my Mum, how come he never told me?
mumbles		'Cos that's Handsome Bob and he's class.
bouncer		Oi you, what do you think you're doing?
johnny story		What do you think we're doing?   We're trying to get in.
bouncer		Go home wasters, costs money to get in here. JOHNNY STORY Yes my good man, I am aware of that.
mickey		What's wrong with you?
roman		Get that Archy on the phone, I think we've got a problem.
bouncer		Run along junkies.
johnny story		Oi looky, but no touchy.
pete		Get off him you slag, he's class.
roman		Mr. Archy,....  I hear you, but you can't just shut us down! I've got an act on.
pete		 Leave it John, I'm happy, I'm all right down here mate. Let's call it a night eh?
johnny story		I'll show em' fuckin happy.
roman		I understand, we'll find him,..  Don't you dare shut us down!
bouncer		Fancy some more talent boy?
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                             60A.
johnny story		I am going to report you, what's your name?
bouncer		Jog on boy, before I grind your bones to make my bread.
johnny story		Oh I'm sorry did that hurt?   Here let me help you up.
mickey		 They're trying to shut us down!
johnny story		What was that about grinding bones?
roman		If we want to keep the licence and the lights on, we need to find Johnny Story.
mickey		There is a revolution taking place outside.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                              61A.
cookie		Joke to be inserted by Cookie.
roman		Can we have a word Cookie?
roman		We need to find Johnny Story.
cookie		Well, you should be the first to know this, but isn't he,...
roman		You know and I know nothing kills Johnny.  Come on Cookie, you've helped him fuck up his life for the last five years, now do him a good turn.
cookie		Have you ever bought a ticket to the junkies bone yard Roman? 
chechnyan 1		Victor is Uri's right hand man, we served together for four years in Chechnya. We used to have a good time together, he's a real soldier, strong, hard, we made much trouble. I saved his life and he saved mine many times,...
chechnyan 2		I have one of those,...
chechnyan 1		Six thirty calibe,....
mumbles		There's another case, grab it.
one two		The bastard's still kicking.     Mace him, mace him!
mumbles		Let's go, we've got it.
one two		Give me a hand, you've blinded me! Major confusion is setting in. They run back to their car, which is still running, Mumbles shoves One Two into the back and jumps in the drivers seat.
one two		Give me the gun.
mumbles		Let's get going.
one two		I can hardly see, where are we?
mumbles		Grab my hand, we're getting out of here.
one two		Who's got the cases?
mumbles		I've got 'em.
one two		Shoot him Mumbles or we won't get out of this!
mumbles		I can't fuckin shoot him, you do it.
one two		Stop or I'll shoot!
mumbles		 I got the cases, now let go.
one two		Where's Bob?
handsome bob		Down.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                           69A.
mumbles		Get on!
lenny cole		I will have that painting   with you in a couple of days Uri.    It got locked up with some other   goods of mine, I wanted to keep it   safe, but Archy lost the key to the   lock. Didn't you Arch?
victor		 I need to speak to you Uri.
lenny cole		Something wrong with these immigrants Arch, I don't fuckin trust 'em. We're being set up, don't know how, but something's wrong, I can smell it with my sniffer. I thought he was made of fuckin money, not too happy about flashing it around here though is he?
victor		He is the only one that knows.
uri		He doesn't have the balls or the brains.
victor		He's a crook, a small time back handing crook. Once could be a coincidence, but twice and the painting - your "lucky painting" I think he is trying to make a fool out of you.
stella		Oh my God, are you all right?
one two		That is a rhetorical question I hope.  Don't you want to know what happened?
stella		I know what happened, it's been all over the news, but I didn't realize,...
one two		You didn't say anything about guns,.. machine guns with war criminals stuck to the trigger. STELLA I am sorry I didn't know, but shouldn't you have taken precautions?
one two		I'll leave your bag under the table all right?  But this isn't about the money is it? I saw you there on that last job. At first I thought it was curiosity,..
handsome bob		Is that you Bertie? 
handsome bob		What's happening about that paper work?
handsome bob		I'll be round in a jiffy and I'll see you Monday. The phone goes down, One Two narrows his eyes.
one two		You are scary good at that.
handsome bob		Do you miss it?
one two		Shut up Bob or I'll slap you. Go and pick up your paper work from your boy friend and drop me off on the way, I am going back to bed.
councilor		What are you doing here Lenny?    You can't come here.
lenny cole		Steady, Councilor steady,...I go wherever I fuckin want. This is my town, not yours no matter what you and your pen pushing immigrant boy scouts might think.  Now, what's going on?
councilor		 Step in here.
councilor		I can't do it, you've left it too long Lenny. You want something that the city has a ruling against, something they said they wouldn't give permission to build.
lenny cole		Don't give me that shit. I can look out my window and there's twenty kinds of buildings this city said they'd never build, how did that happen eh? Fuckin termites got together and had a house building party did they? No sunshine, back handers put them up, back handers just like mine.
councilor		This isn't fuckin Zaire Lenny, I can't do it this time.
lenny cole		Don't you swear at me you yellow puddle of immigrants piss or I'll fuckin drown you in it. 
pete		What John?
johnny story		Letting creatures in my yard without my consent.
pete		They're good stuff John, Scotch and Scouse.
malcolm		Like the drink and the Beatles. I am Malcolm and this is my friend and colleague Paul, you know like the saint.
johnny		Out!! Good-bye, on your way, bon voyage and fuck off.
malcolm		Leave us be Johnny, we're nice people. Peaceful people. This is a demonstration of peace.
johnny		Where the fuck did you find these two junkies? Conference, now Pete.
johnny story		Pedro I swear this is the last time I'm having you take the piss, next time you're on your own.
pete		Sorry, I thought you might like some company.
johnny story		I am dead Pete, what does that tell you? It tells you, that dead people don't like company! Now jog 'em on.
pete		All right, I'll tell 'em to leave.
johnny story		Yes you fucking well will, smelly junkies. Meeting adjourned. Johnny and Pete walk out of the toilet, Malcolm and Paul are gone.
pete		You've scared 'em off sing-a-long, but with a welcome like that it's not all that shocking.
johnny story		Lucky you're not following them.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                              76A.
malcolm		Paul, please exhibit to the audience the fine artifact.
cookie		I'll have it, how much?
malcolm		 One moment sir, there's a pitch that comes with this painting,....
cookie		I don't want the pitch, I said I'll have it.
malcolm		It's a very rare and expensive painting sir.
cookie		Here ya go, have a week in snow.
malcolm		Good afternoon gentlemen, it's been a pleasure. I can hardly wait till the next time.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            77A.
lenny cole		I'll have that painting in a couple of days Uri, trust me on that.
uri		You like it out here Lenny?
lenny cole		Can't beat the great outdoors can you Uri? I can't understand it, not a soul out here.
uri		That's because I have had the course cleared for us Lenny, we are not going to be disturbed. LENNY COLE Oh that's good, I love a clear fair way, that's a bitta me that Uri. Nothing worse than being jogged on by blind tourists swinging a stick on a Sunday.
uri		What are we going to do Lenny? Every time I am about to make my payment something dishonest happens.  You, wouldn't know anything about that, would you?
lenny cole		Excuse me? Are you trying to say something Uri?
uri		I am not trying Lenny, I am saying something.
lenny cole		I think you forget who you are speaking to you insolent bastard. You forget where you are you fuckin immigrant. This is my land, my fuckin show, I run this tow,....
uri		I have to go now Lenny, I am having lunch with the Councilor, your Councilor. This, as you know, is the ninth hole and it is a long crawl back to your car. You should make it by sunrise, just in time to bring me my "lucky picture." I want it back do you hear me?
lenny cole		Yes,..yes.
uri		After that, I don't want to hear from you again, disappear do you understand me Lenny?  Lenny?
lenny cole		Yes, yes, I understand.
uri		Times just change.  Good bye Lenny.
one two		Yeah?
mumbles		We've found out about that informer. Your lady "the beard," her old man came through.
handsome bob		It's here in my hands, THE informer, the one responsible for all the sentences we have been seeing - all of 'em, including me.
mumbles		Who's Sidney Shaw?
one two		Sidney Shaw is a pseudonym you idiot, they never use the real name. Get around here and let me have a look.
nurse		Don't try and move it'll be too painful before tonight.
lenny cole		Give me the water, Aaaaaahhhhh,..
nurse		I told you not to move.
lenny cole		Broke my legs in four places Archy, did you hear that? The bastard's made me limp for the rest of my days.
archy		What do you want me to do?
lenny cole		I need that picture Archy, I need it bad.
archy		I'll get it, don't you worry and I think I can do better than that. This catches his attention.
lenny cole		What?
archy		Someone has been at the Russian's money, a couple of silly gun slingers,..he wasn't making up stories.
lenny cole		What?
archy		You know 'em and you don't like 'em either.
lenny cole		I ain't playing fuckin games here Arch look at me, who?
archy		Mumbles, Bob and One Two.
one two		Look at you, good as new.
stella		I have to go now.
one two		Fancy sharing some dancing lessons with me later in the week, a bitta the 'ol salsa?
stella		 I'll take you up on that.
one two		I got something for you. Thought you might like it, seeing as you like paintings and all.  There, it's on floor.
roman		So why did you call Johnny?
johnny story		Sorry, Johnny's not home right now, but the pipe is and the pipe says that Johnny heard you were getting in trouble boys.
roman		Look, whoever I am talking to please relay the message to Johnny. His Dad, his jack in the box surprise gangster Daddy, paid us a visit. Shut down a few of our venues and he intends to shut down a few more unless Mr Story puts in an appearance.
johnny story		Why are you talking to a pipe Roman? You're madder than I am.
mickey		Come back Johnny, come back home.
johnny story		But home is where your head is and I don't feel at home in my head.  Come back Johnny!
victor		Uri is a man born with nothing, carved his way up the hard way, he's smart, young and only one thing will stop him from reaching his goals,...women. And this woman has become a problem.  My job is to protect Uri and in this department he needs protecting, I don't like her or trust her and I want you to follow that snake.
chechnyan 1		Leave it with me Victor.
archy		Is this a bad time One Two?
one two		 Emmm, emmmmmmmmmmmm.
archy		Shall we come back later?
one two		 Emmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm.
archy		All right Lenny, I got a call waiting here, I'll see ya at the show. 
roman		Archy?
johnny story		Hello Archy. ARCHY Johnny, you do look the part.
johnny story		Show us your guns Uncle Arch, I told the boys all about it.
archy		Shut up and get in the car.
johnny story		Give us your money boys. Archy grabs the gun and hits Johnny on the back of the head, not too hard.
archy		You little swine,... now get in the car.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                            86A.
bandy		You wanna take the stairs or the elevator Mr Cole?
lenny cole		Come here Bandy.
bandy		No,....Mr Cole.
johnny story		Don't worry boys, nothing to be nervous about, some of my Dad's best friends ended up here.
archy		Still full of hot air Johnny.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                             87A.
johnny story		You're looking a bit down, has that old clown been working you long hours?  You always were loyal - no dog like a loyal dog.
archy		Watch your mouth John.
johnny story		 I've just the remedy for you, a story, a Johnny Story and it's all about you. Archy presses a button to call the elevator.       They wait.
archy		I don't want to hear it.
johnny story		Sorry, that's right get into character.  Look at him boys, scary ain't he?
johnny story		So who we got in there? Anyone I know? Anyone famous? That's right it's only a job, isn't it? Just being loyal, just following orders. 
archy		Shut it, otherwise you will get hurt.
johnny story		That, Roman and Mickey, is the famous Archy slap. I have been magically transported straight back to my childhood.
johnny story		 Don't hurt me Arch, I'm only little.
danny		Put him down Arch, he's only little.
archy		 Fine, roll out the carpets.
johnny story		Sidney!   Nice wheels.
lenny cole		Tell me, what are you boy if you are not poison? Look what you've left behind you. Your Dad couldn't even bear the sight ya, no wonder he fucked off and left me to pick up the pieces, but that wasn't enough for you was it? No, had to drive your mum into a bottle of pills and house full of nutters. All she got then was a hot bath a ice cold razor, why? 
johnny story		What can I say,...  I'm a junkie, crack head, no gooder, should never have wasted your money on that school.
lenny cole		Archy get him out of here.
archy		I've had enough of him, I don't trust myself.  Use someone else.
johnny story		It's a gathering, I love a gathering look, Mumbles, One Two, Handsome Bob all the old faces today.  It's all going so well apart from Archy who's ruining the day. I tried to cheer him up with that story about how you grassed him u,...
roman		Whooooa,...
archy		All right calm down, give me that, I'll take care of him.
johnny story		That wasn't one of your better shots was it now Daddy. If you want to shut me up it should have been a bit higher.
lenny cole		 Danny come here, I want him taken care of, you hear? Now get him out.
handsome bob		The address is in my top pocket. Here, Archy,...you know I wouldn't mess you around.
lenny cole		Let me have a look first.
archy		Here you can't read it without your glasses, let me have a look.
lenny cole		What does it say?      Hurry,...
johnny story		Don't worry just yet fellas, nothing's going to happen while we're standing in the elevator because they don't 
archy		You wanna know what this says Len?  Funny thing with the law, it can be quite flexible. Every time an informer finds himself in front of a judge,...
judge		A secret letter stands witness as to the cooperation and efficiency of that informer.
lawyer		An accurate record of his treachery will be brought in to protect the informer,...
archy		If the informer has provided adequate information, that dog of dogs will be magically released,...
judge		A sort of, "get out of jail free" card, but this comes along with the trail of a good alibi.
lawyer		The only evidence that will ever remain of this deal is that form of a very exclusive and hard to come by legal document called a "secret debt"...
archy		As in deputation,...  Of course they use a false name and I have seen that name many times in the last twenty years, always did wonder who Sidney Shaw was,...
archy		Who's this Sidney Shaw Len?
lenny cole		 Give us that here.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision    -   6-20-07                 94A.
lenny cole		No, I am being set up.
archy		You're a dirty bastard Sidney, a very dirty bastard.
one two		See ya Arch,....
johnny		Shouldn't have brought me here fellas, you're just going to end up as witnesses. 
johnny		After they have "dealt" with us, they're gonna put all three of us in the trunk of a stolen car,...
johnny		And pour six gallons of petrol on top, I can let your imagination fill in the rest.
johnny		But now Danny's rattled, he won't be able to wait because you now know what's coming, so he's gonna fire.
johnny story		Mickey, pass me the gun.
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                        96A.
bandy		Get fucking down!
one two		I think we should get out of here now, don't you John?
victor		I don't like it Uri, I don't trust her. I put two of my people on her and they haven't come back.
uri		You what? I did not tell you to do this. If I had wanted her spied on I would have asked for it, wouldn't I?
victor		Yes Uri, you would have, but I still don't like it.
uri		I don't care what you like Victor, I am in charge, now wait here.
uri		Can I come in?
rocknrolla		 PINK Revision   -   6-20-07                           97A.
uri		Sorry to surprise you, but I have something for you, a token of my appreciation.
stella		What is this for?
uri		Please do not be insulted, you have come to mean a lot to me and I value you much more than just your services.  I would like to ask you something personal.
stella		Years, it's my lucky painting,... it's very special isn't it?
uri		Beauty is a cruel mistress, is it not?
****Dialogues from script :Rocky.txt****

black fighter		 ... I'm gonna bust his head wide open!
cornerman		 ... Ya waltzin' -- Give the suckers some action.
rocky		Hey --
cornerman		 Ya movin' like a bum -- Want some advice --
rocky		... Just gimme the water.
fan		Should I bet the fight don't go the distance -- Ya feel strong?
rocky		Absolutely.
cornerman		... Ya want some good advice?
rocky		... I just want the mouthpiece.
announcer		Winner, Rocky Balboa -- Next a six rounder between local lightweights.
promoter		...Balboa!?
promoter		 ... Twenty bucks for the locker an' cornerman -- Two bucks for the towel an' shower, seven for tax -- The house owes ya, sixty-one dollars.
rocky		 I'm a fighter.
woman		 ... Yo' iz an accident.
rocky		...Look who's home.
rocky		Real good.
rocky		Yeah, here an' there.
fats		 Don't hit the face!  Not the face!!
rocky		Mr. Gazzo wants the two hundred now!
fats		Honest to God I'm broke -- Gimme a break.
rocky		Mr. Gazzo says I should get two hundred or break the thumb.
fats		Please, I need my hands to work -- Christ, don't bust my thumbs.
rocky		Goin' fishin'?
rocky		What's ya name again?
fats		Bob.
rocky		Look, Bob, if ya wanna dance, ya gotta pay the band -- If ya borrow, ya gotta pay the man... Me, I ain't emotionally involved.
rocky		 A hundred an' thirty.
fats		That's it, I'm broke.
rocky		That's it? -- Completely?
fats		That's it.
rocky		What about for food an' stuff?
fats		You have my food in ya hand.
rocky		... The juice is climbin' every week.
fats		I know the juice is climbin' -- I been workin' six months just to pay the damn interest.
rocky		Ya still light seventy.
fats		Waits! -- Be smart.  Ya don't have to break nothin' -- Here, take my coat, it's worth fifty-sixty dollars.  It's yours.
fats		 See, ya a smart guy, Gazzo's don't have to know nuthin'. I'll go tape up the hand like ya broke my thumb.  Gazzo won't be wise to nothin' -- Be a smart guy, keep the coat, we'll fake like ya broke the hand.
fats		 No - no - no - Please - Please - Please don't...
rocky		...That's what coulda happened. 
adrian		... Could you take the puppy out --
customer		It can breathe.
adrian		Please -
customer		Please, nothin' - I paid for this dog and can do whatever I want with it - I can throw it through the window if I want - Now give me my two dollars back before I do throw it through the window.
customer		Get away from me - Give me that!
rocky		... How's the turtle food this week?
adrian		... Fine.
rocky		Me, I'm kinda aggravated.
adrian		... I'm sorry.
rocky		Ain't your fault - Here's the problem.
rocky		The last food I got here had more moths than flies -- An' the moths get caught in my turtle's throat -- That makes them cough --
rocky		 A little cough an' I gotta smack 'em on the shell -- An' whatta think they get?
rocky		 I smack 'em hard on the shell an' they get... What?
adrian		... I don't know.
rocky		Shell-shocked!
owner		Startin' with the bad jokes early today, huh.
rocky		Inventin' jokes ain't easy.
rocky		 How's Butkus this mornin'?
owner		Ain't had time to check 'em.
rocky		Yo, Butkus -- Dead.  Play dead.
rocky		...What kinda dog is this again?
owner		Bullmastiff.
rocky		The owner was suppose to pick him up three weeks ago.
owner		We're not responsible for animals left over thirty days - We board it ain't a animal shelter, Y'know. ...Adrian, I want you to clean all those cat cages downstairs, they're a mess. 
rocky		He only had a hundred an' thirty. -- I think he's good for the rest next week, Mr. Gazzo.
gazzo		 Sure, Rocky, Bob's good for it...
gazzo		Tomorrow collect from Del Rio -- He's late three weeks. How'd you do last night?
rocky		... Fine.
bodyguard		Did ya get the license number?
rocky		Of wa?
bodyguard		... Of the truck that run over your face.
gazzo		Yo Rock.  Did I give you a job this mornin?  How come ya didn't break this guy's thumb like I asked ya?  When ya don't do what ya are told, it makes me look bad, kid.
rocky		I figure if I break the thumb this guy gets thrown outta his job and can't pay nothin no more.
gazzo		It don't matter.  It's my reputation.  These guys think they can get off light.  It's bad for my reputation -- It's bad for business.  See ya killer.
gazzo		 ... The Rock's a good kid.
bodyguard		 ... A meatbag.
rudy		...See the fight last night?
rudy		Nah, I was fightin' myself.
rudy		Apollo Creed beat the bum to pieces.
rocky		The third -- Shoulda seen it.
rocky		How come?
rocky		 ... These ain't my clothes.
rocky		 ... These ain't my pictures.
rocky		Yo, Mike -- What's happenin' here?
mike		It ain't your locker no more.
rocky		Whatta ya talkin' about it ain't my locker no more?
mike		Listen, I'm with you -- But ya gotta talk to Mickey -- I put ya stuff in the bag over there.
fighter		...Hey, Peanut, gimme some soap, Man.
mike		 Hey, Nobody -- Yeah, you, Nobody -- You don't call me Peanut.
fighter		Peanut, gimme some soap.
rocky		You were ready to bite that guy's face.
mike		Yeah -- See the fight last night?  Apollo Creed beat that English guy bad.
rocky		Creed's great.
mickey		I don't care what nobody says, this bum Creed woulda never made it in the Thirties --
rocky		Hey, how ya feelin', Mickey?
mickey		 ... What?
rocky		I said, how ya feelin'?
mickey		 Do you see me talkin'?  Huh?
rocky		 Yeah.
mickey		 Hey -- Yeah -- Whatta ya want?
rocky		I was talkin' with ya man, Mike. -- Hey, how come I been put outta my locker?
mickey		Dipper needed it.
mickey		 Dipper's a climber -- You're a tomato.
rocky		... Tomato?
mickey		Facts is facts.  I run a business here -- I'm cleanin' house --
mickey		 How old are ya?
rocky		...What?
mickey		How old?
rocky		Come July, twenty-five.
mickey		More like thirty.
rocky		Twenty-five, thirty -- What's the difference? -- It took me two months to learn the combination of that locker.
mickey		The legs must be goin'.
rocky		Yeah, they're goin', -- that's nature... That was my locker for six years.
mickey		... Did ya fight last night?
rocky		Yeah --
mickey		Did ya win?
rocky		Yeah, Kayo.
mickey		... Who'd ya fight?
rocky		Spider Rice.
mickey		Rice is a bum.
rocky		You think everybody I fight is a bum.
mickey		Ain't they?
mickey		 Ya want the truth -- Ya got heart, but ya fight like an ape -- The only thing special about you is ya never got ya nose broke -- keep ya nose pretty -- what's left of ya brain an' retire.
rocky		Listen, I'm gonna take a steam -- Did good last night -- Shoulda seen it.
mickey		Hey, ever think about retirin'?
rocky		...No.
mickey		Think about it.
rocky		Yeah, sure.
rocky		 ...I think I'm gonna take a steam -- Shoulda seen me fight -- Did good, y'know.
mickey		 Known him since he was fifteen -- A waste of life.
dipper		 ... I dig yo' locker, Man.
trainer		Time, Dipper.
rocky		... Wow -- cold!  Good night to catch pneumonia.
rocky		 Ah -- I came in here for somethin'... Oh, yeah, would ya like somebody to walk ya home?
rocky		 -- Nice dog -- Well, I'll see ya later.
adrian		... Goodnight, Rocky.
rocky		Catch pneumonia out there -- Seen Paulie?
rocky		Yo, Paulie.
paulie		 Yo, Rocky -- Look at this mirror.  I'd like to kill the friggin' moron who broke this mirror.
rocky		Yo, Paulie.
paulie		What?
rocky		Your sister's givin' me the shoulder.
paulie		Forget her.  You could do better than my sister.
rocky		Every mornin', every night I pass by -- I smile. 
paulie		 Looks, huh?
rocky		Yeah, like I was a plate of leftovers -- Somethin' wrong with my face -- Whatta I need, a Caddy to connect with ya sister?
paulie		My sister's a friggin' loser.
rocky		Hey --
paulie		Sometimes she gets me so crazy, I'd like to split her head with a razor.
rocky		Don't get mental, man.
paulie		Ya caught me in a bad mood.
rocky		Ya always in a bad mood --
paulie		... Adrian ain't sharp.
paulie		 She's a loser -- She don't enjoy life -- She reads -- Brainy -- Pushin' thirty friggin' years old!  She's gonna die alone if she don't wise up.
rocky		I'm thirty myself.
paulie		An' you're dyin' alone, too.
rocky		I don't see no crowd around you, neither.
paulie		 I wanna kill the friggin' moron who broke the mirror.
rocky		Let's get outta this stink.
paulie		The girl's dryin' up!  She's gotta live a little before her body dries up!!  You're a pal, Rock -- How 'bout yo' talk to her?  Y'know, it's Thanksgivin' tomorrow.
rocky		... Sure.
paulie		Tomorrow you come for some bird, right?
rocky		Absolutely...
andy		That was alotta crap to go through for a dinner invite.
commentator		How was the flight, Champ?
apollo		Very high an' very fast.
commentator		Apollo, how would you rate this last British challenger, Henry Wilcoxson?
apollo		He was big, an' very nasty so I destroyed him in a hurry -- Now I'm gettin' ready for Mac Lee Green next month.
commentator		You're referring to the much publicized bicentennial fight?
apollo		That's right -- It's gonna be the greatest sportin' event in this country's history -- A gala occurrence!
commentator		Still to be held in Philadelphia?
apollo		The Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship of the World is gonna be held in the only place it can be held -- Philadelphia! -- the nation's cradle -- January First -- the first major event of our two hundredth year.
commentator		Where're you off to now?
apollo		Me an' my wife are goin' home 'cause we miss our children an' can't go no more time without seein' them.
commentator		Any quick advice for young boxing hopefuls?
apollo		 ... Stay in school an' use your brains, dig -- Be a lawyer, be a doctor, carry a leather briefcase an' forget about sports!!  Sports can only make ya grunt an' smell -- Be a thinker not a stinker!!
commentator		Jerry Simpson at Kennedy Airport with the Champion, Apollo Creed.
andy		Nobody cares what's happenin' in the world of sports nomore -- Downhill.  Baseball, downhill -- Basketball, downhill.  Football's goin', too.  Bank on it.  Baseball use to be America's best sport... Sure -- Nuttin' like squattin' through a great double header, but now baseball's all business.
andy		 Where are the real fighters? The pros.  Today we jig clowns.
rocky		Clown.
andy		Yeah.
rocky		He took his best shot an' became champ -- What shot did you ever take?
andy		Yo, Rock, you ain't happy with yourself?  Fine.  But me, I gotta business here -- I don't need to take no shot.
andy		 Take a shot, he says! -- Sure, I'll take a shot!
chipped tooth		 Yo, Rocks, buy us sum wine, man.
rocky		... No wine -- Bad for ya' brain.
chipped tooth		C'mon, man, it's cold, man.
rocky		No wine.
chipped tooth		Yo, Rock, gimme a dollar.
rocky		Why?
chipped tooth		 'Cause we dig ya, man -- Gimme a dollar.
rocky		No dollar.
chipped tooth		Hey, give Rocky a dime.
chipped tooth		So he can call all his friends.
rocky		 ... That's an old one.
chipped tooth		Buy us some Thunderbird, man.
rocky		Is that Marie? -- Marie, ya brother know you're hangin' out so late?
marie		... Screw you.
rocky		 What'd you say?
marie		... Screw you, yoyo.
rocky		Did these guys teach you to talk dirty?  Huh?
marie		Hey --
rocky		What?
marie		Stuff it, man!
rocky		 -- You guys talk like that in front of a little girl -- You guys are scum.
chipped tooth		This is our place, dig!
rocky		Don't ya never come round this girl -- Go home.
chipped tooth		 We'll kill you, man -- We gotta gun.
rocky		Pull heat on me? -- I'll dent ya face!
rocky		How come ya wanna hang out with those guys?  They teach ya bad things.
marie		I like 'em.  If you don't you can f--
rocky		Hey!  When I was your age, there was only one girl who talked like that in the whole neighborhood.
marie		 ... Yeah.
rocky		Make your teeth yella --
marie		I like yella teeth.
rocky		Makes your breath like garbage.
marie		Maybe I like garbage.
rocky		Nobody likes garbage -- Anyway, this girl with the dirty mouth wasn't bad lookin', but the guys wouldn't take her out for any serious datin'.
marie		Why?
rocky		'Cause that's the way guys are -- They laugh when ya talk dirty.  They think ya cute for a while, but then ya getta reputation an' watch out. 
marie		C'mon, Rocky.  I'm twelve.
rocky		That doesn't matter -- You don't really have to be a whore, just act like one an' that's it.
marie		What?
rocky		Yo, a bad reputation -- Twenty years from now people will say 'D'you remember Marie?' 'No, who was she?' 'She was that little whore who hung out at the Atomic Hoagie Shop.' 'Oh, now I remember!'... See, they don't remember you, they remember the rep.
rocky		 ... That's your house, ain't it?
rocky		 Listen, I hope ya don't --
marie		I won't.
rocky		What was I gonna say?
marie		Ya hope I don't keep acting like a whore or I'll turn into one, right?
rocky		Ya, somethin' like that.
marie		Goodnight, Rocky.
rocky		'Night, Marie.
marie		... Fuck you, Creepo!!!
rocky		 ... Yeah, who're you to give advice, Creepo.
lawyer		Are the doctor's reports confirmed?
jergens		Definitely --  -- It says here, Mac Lee Green has suffered a seriously cracked third metacarpal in his left hand.
apollo		Damn.
jergens		I suppose we could cancel the fight indefinitely if you are set on fighting Green.
trainer		It ain't just Green, what about the time Apollo's invested --
jergens		I believe we can find a solution.
apollo		Solution, nothin' -- What about the Bicentennial fight.
lawyer		Jergens, don't play games with my client!  Apollo has already done nearly a million dollars worth of publicity --
trainer		Ten million's worth!
lawyer		-- And has made contractual obligations with over twenty different organizations -- He doesn't want to be embarrassed.
apollo		You best find me another ranked contender an' I mean in a flash, man!
jergens		 I contacted Ernie Roman's manager, he's fighting in France the same week.
apollo		Then gimme Buddy Shaw -- He's ranked fifth.
jergens		Shaw's fighting in South America -- Why not postpone the bout until July Fourth?
lawyer		Hell with Fourth of July, man! Ten thousand things'll be goin' down on the Fourth of July! -- Apollo wants to be first!
jergens		That may not be possible, Jimmy.
trainer		This man here is the Star, dig -- Don't cause him to breathe heavy -- Now what 'bout that sucker, Billy Dukes?
jergens		Went to California and gained fifty pounds -- and I called every worthwhile contender, but they say five weeks isn't enough time to get in shape.
apollo		Shape, nothin' -- They're afraid.  They know everybody in the world's gonna see this fight an' none of them gotta prayer of beating me so they're makin' excuses so they don't have to be the chump that's gonna be whipped in front of the whole civilized world!!
jergens		Apollo, I'm sure there's a way to salvage this.
trainer		Nobody wants to be dissected on the country's birthday.
jergens		All I can counter with is that I'm a goddamn good promoter -- I've promoted in every country in the world -- and I've tried to the best of my abilities. Perhaps you're right, and no one wants to be beat on the country's birthday... I don't know what else to say --
apollo		I do -- Maybe what this fight needs is something new -- a novelty.
trainer		You's the novelty, Champ!
apollo		Give my main man a raise!!
apollo		 Now here's what's goin' down. Listen, 'cause I'm gonna say this but one time.  On January first, the first day of the Bicentennial I'm gonna fight me a local poor underdog, dig? A snow-white underdog.  An' I'm gonna put his face on this poster with me, hear?  An' I'll tell you why, 'cause I'm sentimental -- An' all the people in the country all sentimental, man, an' they'd like nothin' better than me, Apollo Creed, to let some unknown get a shot at the greatest title in the world on this country's biggest birthday. Now that's the way I see it an' that's the way I want it!!
jergens		... It's very American.
apollo		No, man, it's very smart.
rocky		Next Wednesday I grab a grand from Snyder.  An' Thursday two yards from Cappoli, okay?
gazzo		No, two yards from Snyder, an' a grand from Cappoli.
rocky		Ya sure?
gazzo		Hey, screw ya brain on right. Now, who's this girl you're going out with tonight?
rocky		How'd you know?
gazzo		 You think I don't hear things?
rocky		Paulie's sister.
bodyguard		 Hear she's retarded.
rocky		 She ain't retarded, she's shy.
bodyguard		Take 'er to the zoo -- Retards like the zoo.
rocky		Does that bum have to say that?
gazzo		Buddy's in a bad mood -- prostate problems.
rocky		He's always in a bad mood.  Count ya blessin's.  Ya a healthy person -- ya legs work -- ya hands work --
bodyguard		I don't like ya face.
rocky		Don't like yours neither.
bodyguard		Kiss my ass.
rocky		Move your shoulders down.
gazzo		 Buddy's got a thing against ya, Rock.  Some people just hate for no reason, y'know.
rocky		Yeah.
gazzo		Here's fifty bucks -- You an' the girl have a nice time.
rocky		Thanks, Mr. Gazzo.
apollo		How 'bout this Billy Snow?
jergens		Fouls.
apollo		How 'bout this Big Chuck Smith?
trainer		Too old, dull fighter.  Bobby Judge is a good boy.
apollo		... I don't feel heat from the name.
jergens		Joe Zack is a good prospect -- Exciting boy.
apollo		... Still don't feel no heat.
jergens		 Exactly what are you looking for, Apollo?
apollo		... This man.
apollo		 'The Italian Stallion' -- He's my man.
jergens		Rocky Balboa -- His record's poor --
apollo		Don't matter -- That name. 'The Italian Stallion,' it's right on.  Who discovered America?  An Italian, right?  So, man, what could be better than to get it on with one of his ancestors --
trainer		He won't last one round.
apollo		Listen, I gonna carry this boy three rounds, then drop 'im like a bad habit.
trainer		I don't like you messin' with southpaws -- They do everything wrong.
apollo		Southpaw, nuthin' -- I'll drop 'im in three -- 'Apollo Creed meets the Italian Stallion.' Shhiii -- Sounds like a damn monster movie!!
rocky		 I usta be deadly at half-ball.
paulie		I hate the friggin' game... I'd like to talk some business.
rocky		What kinda business?
paulie		Look at my hands -- See how the joints are swollen.
paulie		 Inflamed joints -- Walkin' in an' out of a freezer carryin' meat plays hell on the joints.
rocky		Maybe ya should see a doctor.
paulie		I don't need a doctor, I need a different job.
rocky		Maybe another job is the best thing.
paulie		Do me a favor -- Talk to Gazzo. Tell him I'm a friend an' would do a good job... Tell him I ain't bothered by nothin' an' would be a great collector... Bustin' bones don't bother me -- Tell him I'm a good worker.
rocky		Gazzo's gotta come to you.
paulie		I'm askin' ya to go to him -- As a favor.
rocky		Gazzo's gotta come to you -- Hey, Paulie, it's a bad job -- Do what you do now.
paulie		You know her?
rocky		Ya sister knows I'm comin'?
paulie		Yeah, sure -- She's very excited.
adrian		 Paulie, you're late.
paulie		Did you call the hospital?  If I'm ten minutes late, she calls the hospital.
adrian		... Paulie, why didn't you tell me you were bringing him home?!  Look at me, I'm not ready for this.
paulie		Like it would make a difference if you were, right?  This guy's a friend and now he's takin' ya out.
adrian		No... I can't!
paulie		Ya, ya goin' outta the bedroom an' I don't wanna know from nothin'.
adrian		Paulie, please --
paulie		Hey, I want ya out instamaticly. -- I'm sicka lookin' at ya hangin' around like a friggin' spider -- Go out -- Live!  Do, enjoy life.
adrian		... Like you?
paulie		Don't get wise with me.  I want ya to stop bein' a loser.
adrian		I can't go out.
paulie		Why?
adrian		Paulie, it's Thanksgiving. I've gotta turkey in the oven.
paulie		!! Ya want the bird, go out in the alley an' eat the bird -- I want ya outta the house -- Enjoy ya friggin' life... Ya hungry, Rock?
rocky		Maybe ya better forget it.
paulie		Forget nothin' -- Here, talk to my sister, tell 'er somethin' nice.
rocky		... Yo, Adrian, it's me, Rocky... Ah, ah -- Ah, it's kinda hard for me to think of somethin' to say, y'know -- 'Cause I never talked to a door before, I mean whatta ya say to a door.
rocky		 ... Maybe I better forget it.
paulie		Try again, c'mon, try again.
rocky		Ah, Adrian, I know ya ain't too happy at this moment, but would ya do me a favor -- I ain't got nobody to spend Thanksgivin' with -- How 'bout you an' me goin' out -- Get somethin' to eat, maybe laugh a little, who knows... Would ya like, I dunno, go out together?
rocky		 We'll have a good time.
rocky		 What's ya sister like to do?
paulie		Ice skate.
rocky		I didn't want no turkey anyway.
adrian		It's Thanksgiving.
rocky		To you, to me it's Thursday.
rocky		Looks quiet, y'know.
adrian		I think it's closed.
rocky		I think mebbe we're early or somethin' --
cleaner		Hey, whatta ya doin' here -- we're closed... Yo, we're closed!
rocky		 Are ya closed to the General Public or to just everybody.
cleaner		 Hey, the rink is empty 'cause we're closed -- ya ain't allowed in here so do me a favor an' not stay here.
rocky		Wait here, gotta smooth this guy out.
adrian		 We could go somewhere else an' --
cleaner		Yo, pal, what's with you -- The place ain't operatin'.
rocky		Listen, I gotta problem.  This girl ain't feelin' well, y'know -- The doctor says she should exercise, y'know once in awhile an' ice skatin' is the best thing --
cleaner		This a con?
rocky		Look at her, ya can see she ain't feelin' good -- needs a few minutes exercise --
cleaner		Few minutes?
rocky		... Ten minutes.
cleaner		Ten minutes for ten dollars.
rocky		... Yeah, give 'er the Blades.
adrian		... Aren't you skating?
rocky		Ain't skated since I was fifteen -- That's when I started fightin' -- gotta watch the ankles.  Yeah, fightin' use to be tops with me, but no more.  All I wanted to prove was I weren't no bum -- That I had the stuff to make a good pro.
adrian		And you never got the chance?
cleaner		Nine minutes!
rocky		Hey, I ain't cryin'... I still fight.  Kinda do it like a hobby.  See I'm a natural southpaw an' most pugs won't fight a southpaw 'cause we mess up their timin' an' look awkward -- Southpaw means lefthanded... But I guess in the long run things probably worked out for the best, right?
adrian		But you never had a chance to prove yourself.
rocky		Absolutely.
cleaner		Eight minutes!
rocky		I just dislocated my finger.
adrian		Ohh!
cleaner		Seven minutes!
rocky		It ain't your fault -- I originally done it in the Baby Crenshaw fight.  That's me fightin' Big Baby Crenshaw -- Big Baby was the size of an airplane an' I broke my hands on his head -- I lost, but it's a nice picture, don't ya think?
cleaner		Six!
rocky		How 'bout some Cokes?
cleaner		Cost ya a buck.
rocky		This guy is beautiful -- get the Cokes.
rocky		 See, I ain't graceful, y'know -- I don't move good -- Stink as a dancer too -- But I can really swat, I hit hard,        real hard, but I'm a southpaw an' nobody wants to fight a southpaw! -- Havin' a good time?
rocky		 Y'know how I got started in the fight racket?
adrian		By accident?
cleaner		Here -- Three minutes.
rocky		Yeah -- My ol' man who was never the sharpest told me -- I weren't born with much brain so I better use my body.
rocky		 What's funny?
adrian		My mother told me just the opposite.  She said, 'You weren't born with much of a body so you'd better develop your brain.'
cleaner		Time!
cleaner		 That's ten bucks.
rocky		I must be goin' deaf 'cause I thought ya said, 'ten cents.'
cleaner		 ... How 'bout for the Cokes?
rocky		Charge it.
rocky		 Had ya goin', didn't I, huh?
rocky		Some people are very shy by nature.
adrian		... I suppose.
rocky		I would say you're very shy bu nature.
adrian		... I suppose.
rocky		Some people think bein' shy is a disease, but it don't bother me.
adrian		It doesn't bother me either.
rocky		Then why did I bother bringin' it up?  'Cause I'm dumb, that's why... Y'know, I think we make a real sharp coupla coconuts -- I'm dumb an' you're shy.
adrian		... It is just hard for me to understand why anybody wants to be a fighter.
rocky		Ya gotta be a little soft to wanna be a pug... It's a racket where ya' almost guaranteed to end up a bum.
adrian		I don't think you're a bum.
rocky		... I'm at least half a bum. Yeah, fightin' is a crazy racket.  The roughest part is the mornin' after.
adrian		Morning after?
rocky		After a rough fight, ya' nothin' but a large wound. Sometimes I feel like callin' a taxi to drive me from my bed to the bathroom... Ya' eyes hurt, ya' ears hurt, ya' hair even hurts... But the thing I'm proud of is I been in over sixty fights an' never had a busted nose -- Bent an' twisted an' bitten but never broke... That's rare.
adrian		Why do you do it if it hurts so bad?
rocky		... Guess.
adrian		 'Cause you can't sing or dance?
rocky		Would ya like a glass of water?
adrian		... No thanks.
rocky		Here's the guys I was tellin' ya about -- This is Cuff an' Link.
adrian		I sold them to you.
rocky		 ... Oh, yeah, I bought the whole kit -- Yeah, ya sold me the turtles, the bowl, an' the mountain -- I had to get rid of the mountain 'cause they kept fallin' off.
adrian		Do you have a phone?
rocky		I had it pulled.  People callin' all the time.  Who needs it -- Who'd you wanna call?
adrian		I wanna let my brother know where I am.
rocky		D'you really wanna call?
adrian		Yes, I do.
rocky		You sure?
adrian		Yes.
rocky		Why?
adrian		I think he might be worried.
rocky		I'll call your brother.
rocky		 !!Yo, Paulie -- Ya sister's with me!  I'll call ya later.
rocky		 What's the matter?  Ya don't like the room?
adrian		It's fine.
rocky		It's only temporary.
adrian		It's not that --
rocky		What's the problem?  You don't like me -- Don't like the turtles -- What is it?
adrian		I don't think I belong here.
rocky		It's okay.
adrian		No, I don't belong here.
rocky		It's all right -- You're my guest.
adrian		... I've never been in a man's apartment before.
rocky		 They're all the same.
adrian		I'm not sure I know you well enough -- I don't think I'm comfortable.
rocky		Yo, I'm not comfortable either.
adrian		 I should leave.
rocky		But I'm willin' to make the best of this uncomfortable situation.
rocky		 Would ya take off your glasses?
adrian		 What?
rocky		The glasses... Please.
adrian		 ... T-thank you.
rocky		Do me another favor?
adrian		... What?
rocky		Could ya take off that hat.
rocky		 I always knew you was pretty.
adrian		Don't tease me.
rocky		I wanna kiss ya -- Ya don't have to kiss me back if ya don't feel like it.
mike		Hey, Rock -- What happened?
rocky		'Bout what?
mickey		Did ya get the message, kid?
rocky		Message -- What message?
mickey		A Rep from Miles Jergens' Promotions was lookin' for ya -- They need sparrin' partners for Creed.
rocky		Ya puttin' me on?
mickey		Here's the card?
rocky		When was they here?
mickey		'Bout an hour ago.
rocky		Probably lookin' for sparrin' partners.
mickey		... I said that before.
mickey		 ... Waste of life.
secretary		May I help you?
secretary		 Your name, please?
rocky		Balboa, Rocky Balboa.
secretary		You may go in.
jergens		Hello, Mr. Balboa -- I'm Miles Jergens -- Please, have a seat.
rocky		... Thanks.
jergens		Mr. Balboa --
rocky		 Rocky.
jergens		Rocky, do you have any representation?  A manager?
rocky		No -- Just me.
jergens		Rocky, would you be interested in --
rocky		Sparrin'?
jergens		Excuse me.
rocky		I know ya need sparrin' partners -- I'm very available.
jergens		I'm sure you are.
rocky		Absolutely -- Sparrin' with the Champ would be an honor -- y'know what?
jergens		What?
rocky		I wouldn't take no cheap shots. I'd be a good sparrin' partner.
jergens		Rocky, would you be interested in fighting Apollo Creed for the Championship?
rocky		... Like I said, I'd make a boss sparrin' mate.
jergens		Did you hear what I said?
rocky		Sure, an' I'm smart enough to know that no sparrin' partner should take cheap shots at the Champ.  He's just there to help condition the man.
jergens		Not spar, I'm asking whether you would be interested in fighting Creed for the championship.
rocky		... Ah... Absolutely.
apollo		I like my Philadelphia Brothers. An' I'm patriotic!
apollo		 If yo' don't back up I'm gonna send yo' home with a microphone in yo' nose!
apollo		If history proves one thing, everybody gotta chance -- Didn't yo' all ever hear of David an' Goliath? -- 'Course I woulda knocked out Goliath.
apollo		The same coincidence that he's fightin' a black man.
apollo		He's Italian.
apollo		It means if he can't fight, I bet he can cook!
paulie		Do me a favor -- His lungs, punch 'em out.
adrian		Paul.
rocky		Feel?  I dunno... Happy.
rocky		 Creed's great, ain't he... I'll do what I can.
rocky		I thought of it 'bout eight years ago, when I was eatin' dinner.
rocky		Four hundred -- But that was a long time ago.
rocky		Listen, I wanna say hi to my girlfriend -- Yo, Adrian!
adrian		Oh, Rocky!
paulie		 Christ.
adrian		You didn't!
rocky		Sure I did.  You heard.
commentator		A Bicentennial Fight -- January first.  It will be the first sporting event on our two hundredth birthday and is already being called by many the greatest farce in sports history.  If this man lasts more than a minute I would say he's on borrowed time.  It's matches like this with their exorbitant prices that give sports a bad name -- Not only is this match bad, people, it's sad!  Why a Rocky Balboa?  At the State Athletic Commission, Larry Duggan reporting.
paulie		 The guy's a friggin' moron.
rocky		Why?
paulie		Don't it matter none he's makin' ya out a fool? -- I'd break his lips.
rocky		It don't matter.
paulie		He's takin' cheap shots.
rocky		It don't bother me none.
paulie		Yo, Rock -- now ya'll be lookin' for people to help, right?
rocky		Help what?
paulie		Y'know, to help keep ya livin' clean.
rocky		I'll do okay.
paulie		Ya gotta have a guy help ya exercise, mebbe somebody to be standin' by with a towel or run errands, y'know.
rocky		Hey, who cared about me yesterday, huh?  Nobody -- I think I'm gonna train myself.
paulie		Without havin' good people around, ya won't have such a good chance.
adrian		Einstein flunked out of school... twice.
paulie		That so.
adrian		Roosevelt finished last in his class -- Beethoven was deaf, an' Helen Keller was blind -- I think Rocky has a good chance.
rocky		See ya tomorrow.
rocky		 How'd ya like hearin' ya name on TV?
adrian		I don't know -- I was shocked. Why did you do that?
rocky		Ya puttin' me on, right?
adrian		 Absolutely -- What time should I expect you?
rocky		'Bout seven.
adrian		I'll be waiting.
rocky		Y'know how I said that stuff on television didn't bother me?
adrian		Yes.
rocky		It did.
rocky		Y'know I won't be able to work for ya no more.
gazzo		Hey -- if a good man can make a better life, let him make it.
rocky		I feel bad about walkin'.
gazzo		Take your shot, kid -- You got money for trainin' expenses?
rocky		A few bucks.
gazzo		Here's five hundred -- Put it in your glove.
rocky		Do I have to pay juice?
gazzo		 Does Santa Claus charge juice? Merry Christmas -- Now, how's about my present, ya gonna win?
rocky		Gonna try.
gazzo		Listen, kid, I'm with ya.  Ya know, I'm with ya -- Italian, we're blood.  You kill this rug -- We Guinneas gotta show these Afro-Americans where it's at.  Give it your best shot cause I want ya to prove to these bums on the corner that my man can't be beat by this rug... Ya got any action on the side.
rocky		No action.
gazzo		Ya gettin 150 grand killer. Ya got any plans for it? Whatta ya think? 
rocky		I'm gonna do somethin with it.
gazzo		Sure, you do what ya want. Stay away from the stock market.
rocky		Black market?
gazzo		Same thing.  Ya know, Rock, remember when we was kids, we fought together.  An' I wasn't well an' ya had to beat up that Irish kid -- what's his name? -- Gallager -- I bought a suit and became a businessman. You put on gloves.  An' I remember Mama almost cried, may she rest in peace -- an' our ol' man who said ya had no brains -- I'd like to lay hands on that bastard.  You ain't never had any luck. Even when I owned you in '66 you never had luck.  But now I think you might be gettin' some luck kid.  Whatta you think?
rocky		Yo, you gonna show, Tony?
gazzo		Where else am I gonna go.  Bet three grand on Rocky.
bodyguard		He's a bum -- are you kiddin?
gazzo		 No!  I'm not kiddin!
rocky		Look who's home!
mickey		 I seen the light.  I figure somebody was home.
rocky		Hey, Mickey -- Whatta ya doin' here?  Here, sit down.
rocky		 Best seat in the house -- Hey, Mick, this is too much.
mickey		How do you mean?
rocky		I'm usta seein' ya at the gym, but seein' ya here, in my house, it's kinda outta joint.
mickey		Listen, Rock, you're a very lucky guy.
rocky		Yeah.
mickey		What's happened is freak luck.
rocky		Freak luck for sure.
mickey		Look at all them other fighters. Real good boys.  Good records. Colorful.  Fight their hearts out for peanuts -- But who cared?  Nobody.  They got it shoved in their back door. Nobody ever give them a shot at the title...
rocky		 Freak luck is a strange thing.
mickey		Whatta' those?
rocky		Turtles -- domestic turtles.
mickey		 I'm here tellin' ya to be very smart with this shot.  Like the Bible sez, ya don't get no second chance.
mickey		 Ya need a manager.  An advisor. I been in the racket fifty years.  I done it all, there ain't nothin' about the world of pugilism that ain't livin' up here.
rocky		 Fifty years, huh.
mickey		 Fifty years.  The rep is known around Philly, an' a good rep can't be bought, but I don't have to tell you that.
rocky		How 'bout a glass of water?
mickey		Rocky, d'ya know what I done?
rocky		 ... What?
mickey		 I done it all.  I've done an' seen everything'.  Believe what I'm tellin' ya -- Ya shoulda seen the night in Brooklyn, I smacked 'Ginny' Russo outta the ring, September 14, 1923 -- same night Firpo knocked Dempsey outta the ring. But who got the Press?  He did. He had a manager -- September
rocky		 Ya got a good mind for dates.
mickey		Look at this face -- twenty- one stitches over the left eye, thirty-four over the right -- my nose was busted seventeen times, the last being the Sailor Mike fight New Year's Eve, 1940, in Camden, New Jersey -- What a professional pastin' I give him.  Here, read about it. 
rocky		Nobody ever said that -- There's his picture.
mickey		Yeah, ya kinda remind me of the Rock.  Ya move like 'im.
rocky		Really think so?
mickey		Ya got heart.
rocky		Heart, but I ain't got no Tocker.
mickey		Christ, I know this business. Rocky, when I was fightin' it was the dirtiest racket goin', see.  Pugs like me was treated like fightin' dogs -- throw ya in the pit an' for ten bucks ya try to kill each other.  We had no management... 
mickey		 Respect, I always dished ya respect.
rocky		... Ya gave Dipper my locker.
mickey		 I'm sorry, I -- I made a mistake.  Kid, I'm askin' man to man.  I wanna be ya manager.
rocky		The fight's set -- I don't need a manager.
mickey		Look, you can't buy what I know.  Ya can't.  I've seen it all!  I got pain an' I got experience.
rocky		I got pain an' experience too.
mickey		Please, kid.
rocky		 Whatever I got, I always got on the slide.  This shot's no different.  I didn't earn nothin' -- I got it on the slide... I needed ya help about ten years ago when I was startin', but ya never helped me none.
mickey		If ya was wantin' my help, why didn't ya ask?  Just ask.
rocky		I asked, but ya never helped nothin'! -- Like the Bible sez, ya don't get no second chance.
mickey		 Rocky, I'm seventy-six years old.  Maybe you can be the winner I never was -- your shot is my last shot!
paulie		How ya feelin'?
rocky		 ... Tight.
paulie		I got whiskey here.
rocky		... No.
paulie		This is the guy who's fightin' Apollo Creed.
jose		 Good luck -- Kill him, man.
paulie		 Hip -- Hip -- Hooray!  C'mon -- Hip -- Hip --
jose		 Hooray, man.
paulie		Rock'll be comin' by every mornin' to pick up some Prime -- can't train on that store crap.
paulie		 If ya don't pay Gazzo, ya end up hangin' on the hook, right?
rocky		Gazzo's a good man.
paulie		How 'bout you talk to 'em about me?  Please do me that favor.
rocky		Keep this job, ya eat better.
paulie		Y'know, d'ya think you an' my sister -- Ah, doin' good together?
rocky		Whatta you think?
paulie		Ain't sure, what's the story?
rocky		What?
paulie		The story -- what's happenin'?
paulie		 Ya really like her?
rocky		Sure I like her.
paulie		 What's the attraction?  I don't see it?
rocky		I dunno -- she fills gaps.
paulie		What gaps?
rocky		 She got gaps.  I got gaps -- together we fill the gaps.
paulie		 You ballin' her?
rocky		 Don't talk dirty 'bout ya sister.
paulie		 C'mon, ya screwin' her?
rocky		That's why I can't put ya together with Gazzo, cause ya talk too much -- big mouth.
paulie		Hit the rump.  The rump! Ya'll break the ribs!
paulie		 We do that to Creed an' they'll take us to jail for murder.
rocky		Don't talk dirty 'bout ya sister.
mickey		 Stop!  Stop!  I can't stand it! It's clumsy.  You're off balance.
mickey		 Tie it to both ankles -- Leave two feet slack.
rocky		I never had good footwork.
mickey		Forget the footwork -- You're off balance.  The legs are sticking everywhere.  Marciano had the same problem, an' the string cured it.  When you can hit and move without breakin' the string you'll have balance.
mike		You'll be a very dangerous person.
boy		Rocky, could we have your autograph?
rocky		... Sure.
mickey		 Don't you boys ever interrupt when I'm conductin' business, or I'll kill you both -- Go away.
mickey		 Autographs!  Ya wanna be a writer or a fighter?  Let's work.
mike		... we got visitors.
mickey		 Can I help you guys?
reporter		 We're from Channel Seven -- Covering the pre-fight training.
mickey		I own the place.
cameraman		Rolling here.
sound man		Speed here.
reporter		 We're here at Goldmill's Gym -- A Philadelphia landmark of sorts since 1929 -- The stench of toil permeates every corner.  The sweat a trademark of a unique profession... Yet, the most unique fixture is an unprecedented 50 to 1 underdog heavyweight named, Rocky Balboa.
rocky		 Should I do this?
reporter		So much has happened lately -- Has it changed your life style much?
rocky		... People talk to me more.
reporter		How're you preparing for this Bicentennial bout?
fighter		Readin' fuckin' history books, man!
reporter		 We can cut that out later. Apollo Creed says he'll let you stay three rounds before he puts you away.
rocky		 Apollo's a great fighter.
reporter		Do you feel you have a chance?
rocky		Maybe --
rocky		 I'll tear his head off.
reporter		Do you have anything derogatory to say about the Champion?
rocky		Derogatory?  Yeah, he's great.
apollo		 I am the Champion of the whole world!!!
apollo		 Italian Stallion, I come over to tell you to be very smart an' after this fight donate what's gonna be left of your body to science, cause after this fight what's left won't fill a tuna fish can!... So beware, Mon Cher!!!
apollo		 This classic fight -- Tha's right, this bicentennial fight's goin' down in the history books 'cause January first I'm gonna be the first man to bounce another man offa the planet Pluto!
dipper		 Ya nothin', Boy!
dipper		 I say ya nothin'!
mickey		What's happenin' here?
dipper		I'm happenin'!  This pig is takin' my shot -- I iz a contender.  He's nothin'.
rocky		 Yo', Dipper, why're ya --
dipper		 Spar me in front of these here TV dudes -- I knock ya ass to Jersey!
mickey		 You can forget about sparring, kid.
dipper		Yo' know I iz the best man here!  Yo' said so yoself!
mickey		 Why let Rocky here take a chance on cuttin' or breakin' a hand? -- Take a shower, Dipper.
dipper		Don't mouth me, old man, I'll knock yo' out too.  C'mon, wop, spar me, let everybody see who's got the heat around here.
dipper		 Man, yo' best keep them cameras out!  Fight me, boy! Let Creed here see the kind of punk he's fightin'!
mike		Don't chance it, man -- He's sick.
mickey		This is gettin' outta hand -- Rocky will fight in the ring January first, not here!
dipper		Yo' yellow, old man.
mickey		Not yellow, cautious.  See, it's very easy for a fighter to accidentally hurt --
dipper		If yo're afraid to fight me, then get down an' kiss my feet, boy.
mickey		 Let's take a walk, Rock. Please, don't take a chance. He wants to hurt you so you can't fight.
mike		Why you tryin' to cut 'im, man! Back off, scumbag, or I'll bite your face!
dipper		... Now, boy, kiss my feet.
dipper		 ... Kiss 'em.
mickey		The kid's got cannons -- Print that.
rocky		They either say, 'Kill the nigger' or 'Hope you die, Honky.' -- What ya got in the bag?
adrian		Like?
rocky		Sharp -- Real nice.
adrian		Really -- You don't think they're overly feminine?
rocky		No... Sharp -- You look great.
rocky		Adrian, you really look great, y'know -- But I can't fool around durin' trainin' -- makes the legs weak.
adrian		Don't want weak legs.
rocky		Can't fool around -- You look very great.
adrian		-- The legs.
rocky		Yeah... But I think weak legs ain't bad sometimes, y'know.
adrian		I thought it might be cute.
rocky		Ya right --  Mebbe we best just hold hands -- the shirt made me feel guilty, y'know.
paulie		Yo, Rock.  I made a few phone calls an' thanks to me ya goin' to be a big man -- Thatta dog?
rocky		Whatta these guys want?
paulie		To see ya train.
rocky		Yo, what's with you? -- It was suppose to be private.
paulie		I thought I was doin' ya a favor -- C'mon inside -- Y'know, my sister really likes ya.
commentator		Just relax, Mr. Balboa --  Today we're here with heavyweight challenger, Rocky Balboa.  The reason we are standing in a refrigerated box is that Mr. Balboa has an unusual method of training and in a moment he is going to demonstrate it for our viewing audience -- But first, Rocky, how did you ever come to train in an icebox?
rocky		Ah -- My buddy Paulie let me in one day an' I hit the beef here an' liked it -- An' since I become a challenger, the owner don't mind neither.
commentator		Is this a common training method -- I mean do other fighters pound raw meat?
rocky		I think me and Paulie invented it.
commentator		Would you give us a demonstration?
commentator		... Diane Lewis in the meathouse with the Southpaw, Rocky Balboa.
apollo		How much is being channeled into West Coast closed-circuit advertising?
lawyer		Three hundred thousand.
apollo		Make it four hundred an' fifty.  Send two hundred roses to the mayor's wife from me, get a picture an' make sure it gets all the papers.
apollo		Yeah, I'd like to get Canada -- see, if we can get a tax break -- Gimme the figures on the Program Concession.
trainer		 Apollo, you oughta come see this boy you're gonna fight on TV -- looks like he means business.
apollo		I mean business, too --  The gross rental of the arena is gonna include the four hundred ushers, right? -- Gimme some coffee.
adrian		... And he called the reporters --
rocky		Yeah... Threw my whole day off.
adrian		Don't be mad at him -- He just wants to help.
rocky		Yo -- I ain't mad.  I'm just outta joint when reporters are around -- They take cheap shots an' Paulie knows it.
adrian		... Are you going to say anything to him?
rocky		... What's to say?  I dunno what he wants from me --
paulie		Nothin'!  I want nothin' from you!!!
adrian		Paulie!
paulie		Shutup!  I want nothin' -- I ain't no charity case!  Get outta my house!
adrian		It's not your house --
paulie		You ain't no friend no more -- Go home!  Outta my house I want ya!
adrian		Don't talk like that to him!
paulie		Get outta my life both of ya's.
paulie		 Outta my house I want ya!!
rocky		... It's cold outside, Paulie.
paulie		I don't want ya messin' up my sister no more -- He's scum from the corner, I don't raise ya to hang with no bum!
paulie		 ... Wanna hit on me?  C'mon -- C'mon, I'll break both ya arms so's they never work...
adrian		... Paulie.  Stop now!
paulie		I want 'im outta here --  I give ya meat, an' I give ya my sister, too!
adrian		Only a pig would say that!
paulie		 You forget what I went through to give ya the best.
adrian		You gave me what?!  Knots! You gave me knots in here every day -- you made me scared of everything!
paulie		I always seen ya had the best, but did ya ever think of puttin' in a good word for me with this scumbag!
adrian		Don't do that again!
paulie		Get away from me -- I could never even get married 'cause you couldn't live by yaself -- ya'd die by yaself!  So instead I put you two together -- Did ya think of puttin' in a good word for me? -- You owe me!
adrian		Owe you what?
paulie		You owe me an' are supposed to treat me good!
adrian		Good?  Good, Paulie?!  I've been treatin' you like a baby. Since I can't remember it's so long -- I'm the only one who feeds you an' puts you in bed when ya can't stand up -- and it's you that made me feel like a loser -- That's what ya use to call me 'Loser' -- What kind of name is that?  So can ya blame me for not remembering to talk about you when I'm with Rocky -- I don't owe you, Paulie, you owe me.
paulie		You busted?!
adrian		What?!
paulie		You a virgin? -- Ya let 'im in ya pants, didn't ya!  Ya pulled down ya pants an' let him have it, didn't ya!!
rocky		 Hey --
paulie		 ... I can't haul meat no more.
rocky		What can I do about it?
paulie		Christ, I been beggin' ya for a break until I'm sick inside.
rocky		What break?  Huh?  What break! Who am I to give breaks!  I'm a fighter, you haul meat.  You do what you do an' I do what I do best -- that's it -- that's life, man!
rocky		 ... An' what ya said to my girlfriend ain't right -- Do it again, I'll kill ya.
rocky		 Wanna hear a dirty joke?
adrian		 ... Yes --
mickey		His defense is great, can't lie 'bout that -- You have a rollin' style.  Can't retreat as fast -- But your style ain't retreatin'.
mickey		 See how he plays sometimes -- Drives his cornermen nuts. Nobody knows his next move -- Him included.
mickey		 Killer instinct -- Ya both got the killer touch.  Interestin'. See that! -- Right-cross combination.  Beautiful.  But you got the power to rip the body.
mickey		What cha say, Benny -- Meet 'The Rock.' This is our cutman, Benny Stein.
rocky		Yo, Benny.
mickey		Check the eyes, Ben.
benny		Ain't bad.  Seen worse -- Cover up an' things should be okay.
mickey		Take a shower.
paulie		Yo, Rock, I think I found an angle to make some bread usin' ya name, ya mind?
mayor		Sit down, Rocky.
mayor		 Nineteen arrests -- probation three times -- expelled from seven public schools in 1964
mayor		 I'm a very busy man, but I just wanted to remind you that you'll be setting an example for thousands of guys like yourself and maybe start them off in a new direction and give our police force a break -- I also hope you try your very best and bring pride to Philadelphia.
rocky		... I'll try.
mayor		Would you stand up, please.
mayor		 Thank you for coming by, Rocky -- good luck.
rocky		 Any time.
mayor		 Wait... After the fight you'll have nearly a hundred and fifty thousand dollars -- What do you plan to do with it?
rocky		 ... Run for mayor.
adrian		Rocky, do you realize everybody in this country knows your face, and after the fight everybody in the world is going to.
rocky		Yeah...
rocky		 My first call... Hello?  Yeah, speakin' -- Who is this? Bruce?  Bruce who? -- Yo, Bruce!  How ya been?  I ain't seen ya for nine or eight years -- Yeah, things is great, how's things with you upstate -- Ya sellin' real estate, hey, that's a good job... Yeah, I gotta advance, but I bought ringside seats for the guys at the gym.  I get the hundred an' fifty grand after the fight...
rocky		 ... Yeah, I know it's a lotta money -- Condominiums?  Nobody uses them anybody.  Listen, I think a pet shop is a good investment, y'know -- I don't care 'bout long hours -- there's no depreciation -- that don't matter none to me -- Yeah, I like animals. Why don't ya give me ya number an' I'll call ya back?  Lemme getta pencil --
rocky		 Okay, what is it -- four- twelve 659-2424.  Yeah, yeah, thanks for callin' -- Sure I'll get back to ya, Bruce -- see ya.
adrian		What was that you said about a pet shop?
rocky		 ... What?
adrian		What did you say about a pet shop?
rocky		I don't want ya cleanin' nobody else's cages no more.
adrian		Is everything all right?
rocky		I gotta go out for a while.
rocky		 ... Come.
mickey		... I know what you're thinkin'm kid -- At least ya gotta shot -- All ya can do is try ya' best.
rocky		... Can't do it.
adrian		... What?
rocky		... I can't beat him.
adrian		Apollo?
rocky		Yeah, I can't beat him.
rocky		I been watchin' the movies -- studyin' -- He ain't weak nowhere.
adrian		What're we going to do?
rocky		... I dunno.
adrian		Oh, Rocky -- you worked so hard.
rocky		It ain't so bad, 'cause I was a nothin' before --
adrian		Don't say that.
rocky		C'mon, it's true -- But that don't bother me -- I just wanna prove somethin' -- I ain't no bum... It don't matter if I lose... Don't matter if he opens my head... The only thing I wanna do is go the distance -- That's all. Nobody's ever gone fifteen rounds with Creed.  If I go them fifteen rounds, an' that bell rings an' I'm still standin', I'm gonna know then I weren't just another bum from the neighborhood...
rocky		 ... No foolin' around.
mickey		... It's time, kid.
adrian		... I'll wait for you here.
rocky		Yo, Mick, can I have my rob?
mickey		Don't you care what the people will say?
rocky		... I'm doin' it for a friend.
mickey		Whatta you get outta this?
rocky		I get the robe an' Paulie gets three grand.
mickey		... Shrewd.
apollo		I want you!  I want you!
mickey		Don't let 'im get you tight.
rocky		Whatta ya think that outfit cost?
announcer		Ladies and gentlemen -- Welcome to the Bicentennial Heavyweight Championship Fight... We are very proud to have with us four former Great Champions... Ladies an' gents, 'The one and only 'Manassa Mauler' -- Jack Dempsey!'
dempsey		Good luck, kid.
rocky		 Christ, Jack Dempsey.
announcer		Former Middleweight Champion -- 'The Bronx Bull' -- Jake LaMotta!
announcer		 The man with the big punch -- Everybody's favorite, 'The Brown Bomber ' -- Joe Louis!
announcer		Now, last but certainly not least -- the former Heavyweight Champion, a son of Philly, Smoking Joe Frazier!
frazier		Save some of him for me.
frazier		Well, I think any man who works an' trains hard always gotta chance.
frazier		I'm always in shape.
announcer		... Now for the evening's main event -- In the corner to my right, The Challenger, wearing white trunks -- At one hundred an' ninety-one pounds, one of Philly's own sons -- 'The Italian Stallion,' Rocky Balboa!
announcer		In the far corner, wearing red, white an' blue -- Weighing in at two hundred and ten pounds -- Undefeated in forty- six fights -- the Heavyweight Champion of the World -- 'The Master of Disaster' -- Apollo Creed!
referee		... Now come out fighting.
mickey		God bless ya, Rock.
rocky		Thanks, Mick -- I'm gonna try.
mickey		You can do it!  Goddamnit, you got the power!  The body, get the body!!!  Ya got him goin'!
referee		Six!... Seven!... Eight!...
apollo		... Come at me, sucker!
rocky		How am I doin'?
mickey		Real good.
rocky		See how fast he is -- damn!
mickey		Breathe deep -- Keep ya chin down!!  Use the legs and drive through 'im.  Attack -- Attack -- Attack!
apollo		 ... That boy damn near broke my arm.
trainer		Sure -- He can hit -- Don't play no more -- Stick an' move, hear?
apollo		I'll carry him 'till the third.
trainer		Don't play with this man, he's fightin' hard -- Let 'em feel some real heat!
apollo		Man, I rearranged his face with that right -- The people love what's happenin' tonight.
trainer		People nothin', you in a fight, my man, -- ya best believe what you hear... Knock that boy out soon an' let's go home.
mickey		Ya nose is broke.
rocky		Damn!  How's it look?
mickey		Can't hardly tell.  Don't swallow the blood -- Go for his ribs.  Don't let 'im breathe.
rocky		... The guy's great.
mickey		Why don't ya tell 'im you're a fan!
trainer		 My man's cut, my man's bleedin' -- Get ready!
trainer		Bad?  Talk to me, man!
doctor		Deep, but passable.
apollo		 ... That man's takin' his job too serious.
trainer		He's movin' to your left -- don't let him no more -- dance and stick, hear?  Don't play -- I know what ya feelin', but don't play.
apollo		He got lucky.
trainer		Luck!  You fightin' a crazy man -- but you got him hurt bad.  More ice, now!
mickey		How you holdin' up, kid?
rocky		Fine... That guy's great.
mickey		Gimme the water!  Ya getttin' tagged with his right.  I think you should feint left and high hook 'im -- Benny, check the eyes!  Can ya see?
rocky		 See what?
mike		Ya sappin' his strength -- He's losin' steam.
rocky		He ain't losin' nothin'.
mickey		Keep on him -- You're doin' great.
andy		... The Rock's got real stones.
apollo		C'mon -- Lemme cut yo'!
apollo		My side.
trainer		 Get that doctor.
apollo		No doctor!
trainer		You're hurtin', man!
apollo		No doctor!... I'm feelin' good, bro!
mickey		Wanna keep goin'?
rocky		Would you keep goin'?
mickey		... Yeah.
mike		No more, ya wanna lose an eye? No more.
rocky		Open my eyes -- Please, open my eyes!
referee		Six -- Seven -- Eight --
apollo		... Ribs broke --
trainer		Yo' bleedin' inside, man -- Get that doctor.
apollo		One more round.
trainer		Don't kill yourself, man -- Let the doctor stop the fight.
apollo		... Stop jivin'!
trainer		Cover the ribs -- Look here, elbow down, tight -- Tight -- stand straight -- you're the best, you're the best!
apollo		... Thanks.
rocky		How I look out there, Mick?
mickey		 Great, kid, great.
doctor		One more round -- How do you feel?
rocky		Fine -- Go away, I'm gonna make it -- I'm gonna make it!
mickey		We gotta stop it, kid.
mike		Ya gave it ya best shot!
mickey		Nobody's gonna say ya didn't give ya all.  I can't let ya go out.
rocky		 I'll kill ya all... Don't stop nothin' --
rocky		Gimme ya best!!!!
rocky		 Gimme ya best!!!
six		FIVE FOUR THREE TWO ONE!
apollo		... Ain't gonna be no rematch.
rocky		... Don't want one.
announcer		Attention, please!!  Attention!! Ladies and gentlemen, tonight we have had the rare privilege to have witnessed the greatest exhibitions of stamina and guts ever in the history of sports.
announcer		 Ladies and gentlemen -- We have a split decision!
announcer		Judge Walker scores it eight- seven Creed... Judge Roseman scores it eight-seven Balboa.
announcer		Judge Conners scores it nine- six Creed... Winner and still Heavyweight Champion of the World, Apollo Creed!
mickey		I don't care what they say, you're a winner.
rocky		Yo, can I have my locker back?
adrian		I love you -- I love you -- I love you...
****Dialogues from script :Rocky_Horror_Picture_Show.txt****

the		ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW
voice over		Michael Rennie was ill. The day the earth stood still But he told us where we stand
chorus		Science Fiction - double-feature Dr X will build a creature See Androids fighting Brad and Janet Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet Oh - at the late night, double-feature Picture Show.
voice over		I knew Leo G. Carrol Was over a barrel When tarantula took to the hills
chorus		Science Fiction - double-feature Dr X will build a creature See Androids fighting Brad and Janet Anne Francis stars in Forbidden Planet Oh - at the late-night, double-feature Picture Show By RKO O- Oh At the late-night, double-feature Picture Show In the back row At the late-night, double-feature Picture Show I want to go.
ralph		Well Brad, I guess we made it huh!
brad		Well I don't think there was any doubt about that - You and Betty have been almost inseparable ever since you sat in on Dr Scott's refresher lectures.
ralph		Tell you the truth Brad, she was the only reason I came in the first place. Science was never one of my favourite subjects but I sure with Dr Scott could have made it today.
brad		Yes, Janet and I are both fond of him. We drove over to see him last vacation. It's a shame his new job took him away from Denton.
ralph		Hey fella.  It looks like it could be your turn next.
brad		Who knows...ha ha.
janet		Yes.
brad		Everyone knows Betty's a wonderful little cook.
janet		Yes.
brad		And Ralph himself will be in line for promotion in a year or so.
janet		Yes.
janet		Yes Brad.
brad		I've got something to say.
janet		Uh huh.
brad		I really loved the skilful way You beat the other girls To the bride's bouquet.
janet		Oh Brad.
brad		The river was deep but I swam it.
brad		The future is ours so let's plan it.
brad		So please don't tell me to can it.
brad		I've one thing to say and that's Dammit, Janet. I love you.
brad		If there's one fool for you Then I am it.
brad		I love you.
brad		Here's a ring to prove that I'm not joker.
brad		There's three ways that love can grow. That's good bad or mediocre.
brad		Oh - J - A - N - E - T I love you so.
janet		Oh!......It's nicer than Betty Munroe had
janet		Now we're engaged and I'm so glad.
janet		That you met Mom And you know Dad.
whole family		Oh Brad.  
brad		Oh Dammit.
brad		Oh Janet
janet		For you.
brad		And that's go see the man Who began it
brad		When we met in his science exam It -
family		Janet.
brad		Made me give you the eye And then panic,
family		Janet
brad		I've got one thing to say, and that's Dammit, Janet.
janet		Oh Brad, I'm mad.
brad		Dammit, Janet.
narrator		I would like if I may to take you on a strange journey.
narrator		It seemed a fairly ordinary night when Brad Majors and his fiancee Janet Weiss  left Denton that late November evening to visit Dr Everett Scott, ex. tutor and now friend of both of them.  It's true there were dark storm clouds, heavy, black and pendulous, toward which they were driving.  It's true also that the spare tyre they were carrying was badly in need of some air.  But they being normal kids and on a night out, well they were not going to let a storm spoil the events of their evening.
narrator		It was a night out they were going to remember for a very long time.
janet		Gosh.  That's the third motorcyclist that's passed us.  They certainly take their lives in their hands.  What with the weather and all.
brad		Yes, Janet.  Life's pretty cheap to that type.
janet		What's the matter Brad, darling?
brad		I think we took the wrong fork a few miles back.
janet		Oh dear!  But then where did the motorcyclists come from?
brad		Hmmm ... Well, I guess we will have to turn back.
janet		What was that bang?
brad		We must have a blow-out.
janet		Oh...
brad		You'd better sit here and keep warm while I go for help.
janet		But where will you go?  We're in the middle of nowhere.
brad		Didn't we pass a castle back down the road a few miles?  Maybe they have a telephone I might use.
janet		I'm coming with you.
brad		There's no point both of us getting wet.
janet		I'm coming with you.  Besides, darling, the owner of the phone might be a beautiful woman and you may never come back.
janet		In the velvet darkness Of the blackest night Burning bright.
janet		There's a guiding star No matter what or who you are.
phantom voices		Over at the Frankenstein place.
brad		There's a light.
phantom voices		Burning in the fireplace.
janet		 There's a light, a light In the darkness of everybody's life
brad		I can see the flag fly I can see the rain Just the same There has got to be Something better here For you and me.
phantom voices		Burning in the fireplace.
brad		There's a light.
brad		A light In the darkness of everybody's life.
riff raff		The darkness must go Down the river of nights dreaming Flow morphia slow Let the sun and light come streaming Into my life.
riff raff		Into my life.
phantom voices		Over at the Frankenstein place.
phantom voices		Burning in the fireplace.
phantom voices		There's a light, a light.
narrator		And so it seemed that fortune had smiled on Brad and Janet and that they had found the assistance that their plight required - or had they?
janet		Oh, Brad.  Let's go back.  I'm cold and I'm frightened.
brad		Just a moment, Janet.  They may have a telephone.
riff raff		Hello.
brad		Uh - oh - Hi!  My name is Brad Majors. And this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss.  I - ah - wondered if you could help us.  Our car has broken down about two miles up the road.  Do you have a phone we might use?
riff raff		You're wet.
janet		Yes, the rain has been very heavy.
brad		Yes.
riff raff		Yes.
riff raff		I think you had better both come inside.
janet		You're too kind.
janet		 Oh Brad, I'm frightened.  What kind of place is this?
brad		 Oh, it's probably some kind of hunting lodge for rich weirdos.
riff raff		This way.
janet		Are you - giving a party?
riff raff		No.  You've arrived on a rather special night.  It's one of the master's affairs.
janet		Oh, lucky him.
magenta		He's lucky.
magenta		You're lucky, I'm lucky, we're all lucky.
riff raff		It's astounding Time is fleeting Madness takes its toll But listen closely Not for very much longer I've got to keep control.
riff raff		I remember doing the Time Warp.
riff raff		Drinking those moments when The blackness would hit me.
riff raff		And the void would be calling.
guests		Let's do the Time Warp again.
guests		 Let's do the Time Warp again.
narrator		It's just a jump to the left.
guests		 And a step to the right - right - right - right - right.
narrator		With your hands on your hips.
guests		You bring your knees in tight. But it's the pelvic thrust.
guests		Let's do the Time Warp again.
magenta		It's so dreamy Oh, fantasy free me So you can't see me No not at all.
guests		Let's do the Time Warp again.
guests		Let's do the Time Warp again.
columbia		Well I was walking down the street Just having a think When a snake of a guy Gave me an evil wink. Well it shook me up It took me by surprise He had a pick-up truck And the devil's eyes He stared at me And I felt a change Time meant nothing Never would again.
guests		Let's do the Time Warp again.
guests		Let's do the Time Warp again.
narrator		It's just a jump to the left.
guests		And then a step to the right.
narrator		With your hands on your hips.
guests		You bring your knees in tight.
janet		Oh....Say something.
brad		Say!  Do any of you guys know the Madison?
janet		Brad, please lets get out of here.
brad		For God's sake keep a grip on yourself Janet.
janet		But it seems so unhealthy here.
brad		It's just a..a party Janet.
janet		Well I want to leave.
brad		We can't go anywhere until I get to a phone.
janet		Then ask the butler - or someone.
brad		Let's wait awhile Janet.  We don't want to interfere with their celebrations.
janet		This isn't the Junior Chamber of Commerce Brad.
brad		They're probably foreigners with ways different from our own.  -  They may do some more folk dancing.
janet		Brad - I'm cold, I'm wet, and plain scared.
brad		I'm here, there's nothing to worry about.
frank		How do you do.
frank		Don't get strung out by the way that I look.
frank		Don't judge a book by its cover I'm not much of a man By the light of day But by night I'm one hell of a lover.
frank		I'm just a sweet Transvestite From Transexual Transylvania.
brad		I'm glad we caught you at home Ah - could we use your phone We're both in a bit of a hurry.
janet		Right!
brad		We'll just say where we are Then go back to the car We don't want to be any worry.
frank		You got caught with a flat Well how about that Well babies don't you panic By the light of the night It'll seem alright I'll get you a satanic mechanic.
frank		I'm just a sweet transvestite From Transexual Transylvania.
frank		Why dont'cha stay for the night
frank		I'm just a sweet transvestite From Transexual Transylvania.
guests		"Sweet Transvestite"
frank		From Transexual Transylvania.
guests		"Transylvania"
frank		So come up to the Lab.
columbia		Slowly, slowly.  It's too nice a job to rush.
janet		Oh Brad.
brad		 It's alright Janet, we'll play along for now and pull out the aces when the time is right.
brad		Ah, hi.  My name is Brad Majors and this is my fiancee, Janet Weiss.  You are ...
columbia		You are very lucky to be invited up to Frank's laboratory.  Some people would give their right arm for the privilege.
brad		People like you maybe
columbia		I've seen it.
janet		 It he - Frank - is he your husband?
riff raff		The Master is not yet married.  Nor do I think he ever will be.  We are simply his servants.
janet		Oh.
frank		Magenta, Columbia, go and assist Riff Raff.
frank		I will entertain...ah...
brad		I'm Brad Majors and this is my fiancee, Janet Vice.
janet		Weiss.
brad		Weiss.
frank		How forceful you are Brad.  Such a perfect specimen of manhood.  So dominant.
janet		Well, yes I am.
frank		Do you have any tattoos Brad.
brad		Certainly not!
frank		Oh well.  How about you.  
riff raff		Everything is in readiness, Master. We merely await your word.
frank		Tonight...One, one, one.  Can you hear me at the back? Tonight, my unconventional conventionists.
frank		Tonight you are to witness a breakthrough in biochemical research.
frank		And paradise is to be mine.
frank		It was strange the way it happened. One of those quirks of fate really. One of those moments when you seem irredeemably lost:  you panic; you're trapped; your back's against the wall. There's no way out, and then suddenly, you get a break.    All the pieces seem to fit into place.  What a sucker you'r been. What a fool.  The answer was there all the time.  It took a small accident to make it happen.  An accident!
frank		That's how I discovered the secret. That elusive ingredient, that spark that is the breath of life.
frank		Throw open the switches on the sonic oscillator.
frank		And step up the reactor power input three more points.
janet		Brad...
brad		It's alright Janet.
rocky		The Sword of Damocles is Hanging over my head.
rocky		And I've got the feeling Someone's going to be Cutting the thread.
rocky		I woke up this morning With a start When I fell out of bed.
rocky		And left from my dreaming Was a feeling Of un-nameable dread.
guests		That ain't no crime
rocky		My high is low. I'm dressed up With no place to go.
rocky		Oh, no no, no no.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
rocky		No no no, no no.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime - That ain't no crime.
narrator		Rocky needed peace of mind. He didn't know He was doing just fine.
guests		That ain't no crime.
guests		That ain't no crime.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
rocky		Oh no no no no.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
rocky		No no no no.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime. That ain't no crime.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
rocky		No no no no.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime.
rocky		No no no no.
guests		Sha la la la That ain't no crime - That ain't no crime.
frank		Well.  That's no way to behave on your first day out.
frank		Yes.
frank		Yes.
frank		O.K?    I think we can do a little better than that.
janet		Well.    I don't like men with...er, with too many, muscles.
frank		I didn't make him for you
frank		A weakling weighing Ninety eight pounds Will get sand in his face When kicked to the ground. And soon in the gym  With a determined chin The sweat from his pores As he works for his ca-ha-hause
frank		Will make him glisten - thank you - And gleam. And with massage And just a little bit of Ste-he-he-he-hem... He'll be pink. And quite clean.
frank		He'll be a strong man - Oh honey -
frank		He'll eat nutritious high protein And swallow raw eggs. Try to build up his shoulders, His chest, arms and legs.
frank		He'll do press-ups and chin-ups, Do the snatch, clean and jerk.
columbia		Eddie!
eddie		Stay cool baby.
janet		Who's Eddie?
riff raff		The delivery boy.
magenta		His delivery wasn't good enough though.
eddie		Whatever happened to Saturday night When you dressed up sharp And you felt alright It don't seem the same since cosmic light Came into my life and I thought I was divine.
all		Hot patootie Bless my soul I really love that rock and roll 
eddie		My head used to swim From the perfume I smelled. My hands kind of fumbled With her white plastic belt. I'd taster her baby pink lipstick, And that's when I'd melt. And she'd whisper in my ear, Tonight she really was mine.
all		Hot patootie Bless my soul. I really love that rock and roll.
frank		One from the vaults.
frank		But a deltoid And a bicep, A hot groin And a tricep Makes me - ooh - Shake. Makes me want To take Charles Atlas By the ha-and.
narrator		There are some people who say that life is an illusion, and that reality is simply a figment of our imaginations!  If this is so, then Brad and Janet are quite safe. However, the sudden departure of their host and his creation  had left them feeling both apprehensive and uneasy. A feeling which grew as the other guests 'departed' and 'they' were shown to their separate rooms.
janet		Who is it?  Who's there?
brad's voice		It's only me, Janet.
janet		Oh, Brad, come in, darling.
janet		Oh Brad - Mmmm - Oh yes, my darling - what if...
brad		It's alright Janet.  Everything's going to be alright.
janet		Oh, I hope so my darling.  But let me switch on the light.
brad		No, don't do that.
janet		Oh don't be so shy.
janet		YOU!
frank		I'm afraid so, Janet.  But isn't it nice?
janet		You beast, you monster, what have you done with Brad?
frank		Nothing.  Why, do you think I should?
janet		You tricked me - I wouldn't have - I've never - never
frank		I know.  But it wasn't all bad was it? In fact, I think you found it quite pleasurable. Mmmmm so soft, so sensual.
janet		Oh - Oh - no - stop - I mean help. I - Brad - Oh.  Brad.
frank		Ssssh.  Brad's probably asleep by now. Do you want him to see you like this?
janet		Like this - like how?  It's your fault. You're to blame.  I was saving myself.
frank		Well, I'm sure you're not spent yet.
janet		Promise you won't tell Brad.
frank		Cross my heart and hope to die.
janet's voice		 Oh Brad, it's no good here.  It will destroy us.
brad		Don't worry Janet, we'll be away from here in the morning.  Hmmmm, you smell so good.
janet		Oh Brad.  Oh no.  Not till after the wedding, Darling.
brad		Alright, Janet.  I understand.
janet		Maybe we could try it this way.
brad		 Janet!  Oh!  Yes it's alright.  Janet. Everything's going to be alright.
janet		I hope so my darling.
brad		You!
frank		I'm afraid so, Brad.  But wasn't it nice?
brad		Why you - what have you done with Janet?
frank		Nothing.  Why do you think I should?
brad		You tricked me.  I wouldn't have - I've never - never.
frank		I know, but it wasn't all bad was it? I think you found it quite pleasurable.  Oh so soft.  So sensual.
brad		Ahhh - no - stop - I mean Janet.  Janet.
frank		Shush.  Janet's probably asleep by now. Do you want her to see you like this?
brad		Like this.  Like how?  It's your fault - you're to blame.  I thought it was the real thing.
frank		Oh come on, Brad, admit it.  It was enjoyable, wasn't it?  There's no crime in giving yourself over to pleasure.
brad		You promise you won't tell?
frank		On my mother's grave.
riff raff		Master, Rocky has broken his chains and vanished.  The new playmate is loose and in the castle ground.  Magenta has just released the dogs.
frank		I'm coming.
janet		What's happening here?  Where's Brad? Where's anybody?
brad		Once in a while she don't want to call you Speaking on the telephone Once in your life she won't want to know you You look around The one you've found She is gone.
janet		I'm engaged to Brad just the same as Betty Monroe was to Ralph Hapschatt. But Frank's kisses overwhelmed me with an ecstacy I've never dreamt of before. Hot, burning kisses.
brad		And that's all the time that it takes For a heart to turn to stone The sweeter the wine The harder to make the break You hear something about someone You'd thought you'd known.
janet		I could see Brad's face before me and my mind screamed No!  But my lips were hungry - too hungry.
brad		So baby don't cry like there's no tomorrow After the night there's a brand new day. And there'll be no pain And no more sorrow. So wash your face And phone my place It'll be O.K.
janet		I wanted to be loved completely. My body throbbed excitedly.  Oh Brad, Brad my darling, how could I have done this to you?
brad		And that's all the time that it takes For a heart to beat again. So give me a sign That a lover makes You look around The one you've found Is back again.
janet		If only we hadn't made this journey. If only the car hadn't broken down. If only we were amongst friends or sane persons.
narrator		"If" and "Only", two small words.  Words which kept repeating themselves again and again in Janet's thoughts.  But it was too late to go back now.  It was as if she were riding a giant tidal wave.  It would be folly to fight against it.  Her only chance would be to ride it out - adapt - and perhaps also to survive.
janet		Yes.  There you see it's instinctive. This room is your womb.  You returned here for one thing - security.
janet		Oh Brad!  What have they done with him?
janet		Ahhh!
janet		Oh Brad.  How could you?  Oh, but you're hurt.  Did they do this to you?
janet		Here, lie down.  I'll dress your wounds.
narrator		 It is also an irrational and powerful master and from what Janet had witnessed on the monitor, there seemed to be little doubt that she was indeed its slave.
janet		I was feeling done in Couldn't win I'd only ever kissed before
columbia		 You mean she only ever kissed?
janet		I thought there's no use getting Into heavy petting.
janet		Now all I want to know Is how to go I've tasted blood And I want more I'll put up no resistance I want to stay the distance I've got an itch to scratch And I need assistance.
janet		Touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me. I wanna be dirty. Thrill me, chill me, fulfil me. Creature of the night.
janet		And that's just one small fraction Of the main attraction You need a friendly hand. Oh, and I need action.
columbia		Touch-a touch-a touch-a, touch me.
magenta		I wanna be dirty.
magenta		Creature of the night.
janet		Oh, touch-a touch-a touch-a touch me. I wanna be dirty. Thrill me chill me, fulfil me - oh - Creature of the night.
rocky		Creature of the night.
brad		Creature of the night.
frank		Creature of the night.
columbia		Creature of the night.
riff raff		Creature of the night.
magenta		Creature of the night.
rocky		Creature of the night.
janet		Creature of the night.  Oh.
riff raff		Aaaargh!  Mercy.
frank		How did it happen?  I understood you were to be watching.
riff raff		I was only away for a minute Master.
frank		Well, see if you can find him on the monitor.
riff raff		Master, we have a visitor.
brad		Great scott - Scotty - Dr Everett Scott.
riff raff		You know this earth - this person.
brad		I most certainly do.  He happens to be an old friend of mine.
frank		I see.  So this wasn't simply a chance meeting.  You came here with a purpose.
brad		I told you, my car broke down.
brad		I was telling the truth.
frank		I know what you told me, Brad. But this Dr Everett Scott.  His name is not unknown to me.
brad		He was a Science Teacher at Denton High.
frank		And now he works for your Government, doesn't he, Brad?  He's attached to the Bureau of Investigation of that which you call U.F.O's.  Isn't he, Brad?
brad		He might be.  I don't know.
frank		Hmmmm.  He'll be in the Zen Room.
frank		Well, let's ask him.
brad		Dr. Scott!
dr scott		Brad!  What are you doing here?
frank		Don't play games, Dr Scott.  You know very well what Brad Majors's doing here. It was part of your plan was it not that he, and his female, should check the layout for you.  Well, unfortunately for you all there's to be a change of plans.  I'm sure you're adaptable, Dr Scott.  I know Brad is.
dr scott		I can assure you that Brad's presence comes as a complete surprise to me. I came to find Eddie.
brad		Eddie?  I've seen him.  He's...
frank		Eddie?  What do you know of Eddie, Dr Scott?
dr scott		I happen to know a great deal about a lot of things.  You see Eddie happens to be my nephew.
brad		Dr Scott.
dr scott		Janet!
janet		Dr Scott!
brad		Janet!
frank		Rocky!
frank		Listen!  I made you, and I can break you just as easily.
frank		That's better.
magenta		Master, dinner is prepared.
frank		Excellent.  
frank		Under the circumstances, formal dress is to be optional.
narrator		Food has always played a vital role in life's rituals.  The breaking of bread - the last meal of the condemned man - and now this meal.  However informal it might appear you can be sure there was to be very little 'bonhomie'.
frank		A toast to absent friends.
all		Absent friends.
columbia		Eddie!
columbia		Excuse me.
frank		Go on, Dr. Scott - or should I say doctor von Scott.
brad		What exactly are you implying?
brad		But Doctor Scott...
narrator		But he never caused her Nothing but shame.
all		When Eddie said He didn't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid.
frank		What a guy
janet		Makes you cry
columbia		Everybody shoved him, I very nearly loved him. I said, hey listen to me, Stay sane inside insanity. But he locked the door And threw away the key.
all		What's it say, What's it say?
all		When Eddie said he didn't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid.
frank		What guy
janet		Makes you cry
all		Eddie!
all		When Eddie said he didn't like his teddy You knew he was a no good kid.
frank		What a guy
all		Woe woe woe
janet		Makes you cry
all		Hey hey hey
all		EDDIE!
frank		Oh Rocky, how could you!
frank		I'll tell you once, Won't tell you twice You'd better wise up Janet Weiss.
frank		I've laid the seed It should be all you need.
frank		When we made it Did ya hear a bell ring?
frank		Y'got a block, Take my advice. You'd better wise up, Janet Weiss.
frank		The transducer  Will seduce yah.
janet		My feet - I can' move my feet.
brad		It's as if we were glued to the spot.
frank		You are - so quake with fear, you tiny fools.
janet		We're trapped.
janet		Oh!
brad		You mean...
janet		You mean he's gonna send us to another planet?
frank		Planet.
frank		You'd better wise up, Janet Weiss. You'd better wise up, Build your thighs up. You'd better wise up.
narrator		Then she cries out -
janet		Sto-o-o-o-o-op.
brad		You're a hot dog But you'd better not Try to hurt her, Frank Furter.
janet		You're a hot dog...
columbia		My God!  I can't take any more of this - first you spurn me for Eddie, then you cast him off like an old overcoat for Rocky.  You chew people up and then spit them out - I loved you, do you hear me - I LOVED YOU - And what did it get me - I'll tell you - a big nothing. You're like a sponge.  You take, take, take, take!  You drain others of their love and emotions.  Well, I've had enough. You've got to choose between me and Rocky - so named because of the rocks in his head.
frank		It's not easy having a good time.
frank		My children turn on me.  Rocky's behaving just as Eddie did.  Maybe I made a mistake in splitting his brain between the two of them.
magenta		 When will we return to Transylvania? I grow weary of this world.
frank		Magenta, I am indeed grateful to both you and your brother RIff Raff - you have both served me well - loyalty such as yours must be rewarded and you will discover when the mood takes me I can be quite generous.
magenta		I ask for nothing, Master.
frank		And you shall receive it - in abundance.  Our guests will be growing restless.
narrator		And so, by some extraordinary coincidence - fate it seems had decided that Brad and Janet should keep that appointment with their friend Dr Everett Scott.  But it was to be in a situation which none of them could have possibly foreseen.  And just a few hours after announcing their engagement, Brad and Janet had both tasted forbidden fruit.  This in itself was proof that their host was a man of little morals - and some persuasion.  What further indignities were they to be subjected to?  And what of the sonic transducer and floor show that had been spoken of?  What indeed?  From what had gone before, it was clear that this was to be no picnic.
columbia		It was great when it all began I was a regular Frank fan. But it was over when he had the plan To start working on a muscle-man. Now the only thing that gives me hope Is my love of a certain dope Rose tints my world keeps me Safe from my trouble and pain.
rocky		I'm just seven hours old Truly beautiful to behold And somebody should be told My libido hasn't been controlled Now the only thing I've come to trust Is an orgasmicrush of lust Rose tints my world keeps me Safe from my trouble and pain.
brad		It's beyond me Help me Mommy I'll be good you'll see Take this dream away What's this, let's see I feel sexy What's come over me Here it comes again.
janet		I feel released Bad times deceased My confidence increased Reality is here The game has been disbanded My mind has been expanded It's a gas that Frankie's landed His lust is so sincere.
frank		What ever happened to Fay Wray That delicate satin-draped frame As it clung to her thigh How I started to cry For I wanted to be dressed just the same.
frank		Give yourself over to absolutely pleasure Swim the warm waters of sins of the flesh Erotic nightmares Beyond any measure And sensual daydreams To treasure forever.
all		Don't dream it.  Be it.
brad		It's beyond me Help me Mo-ommy.
janet		God bless Lilly Saint Cyr.
frank		My my my my I'm a wild and an untamed thing. I'm a bee with a deadly sting. Get a hit and your mind goes ping. Your heart'll thump and your blood will sing. So let the party and the sounds rock on. Gonna shake it till the life has gone.
all		I'm a wild and an untamed thing I'm a bee with a deadly sting. Get a hit and your mind goes ping Your heart'll thump and your blood will sing.
riff raff		Frank N. Furter It's all over Your mission is a failure.
frank		Wait!  I can explain.
frank		On the day I went away.
guests		Goodbye
frank		Was all I had to say
guests		Now I
frank		Want to come again and stay
guests		Oh my, my,
frank		Smile and that will mean I may
frank		I've seen blue skies Through the tears in my eyes And I realise I'm going home I'm going home
guests		Feeling
frank		Like I'm outside in the rain
guests		Wheeling
frank		Free to try and find a game
guests		Dealing
frank		Cards for sorrow, Cards for pain.
magenta		How sentimental.
riff raff		And also presumptuous of you.  You see when I said "we" were to return to Transylvania, I referred only to Magenta and myself.
riff raff		You see, you are to remain here, in spirit anyway.
dr scott		Great Heavens, that's a laser.
riff raff		Yes, Dr Scott.  A laser capable of emitting a beam of pure anti-matter.
brad		You mean you're going to kill him? What's his crime?
dr scott		You saw what became of Eddie. Society must be protected.
riff raff		Exactly, Dr Scott.  Now Frank N. Furter, your time has come.  Say goodbye to all this and hello to oblivion.
frank		Do your worse - inferior one.
brad		Good God.
riff raff		Yes.
janet		You've killed them.
magenta		I thought you liked them.  They liked you.
riff raff		They didn't like me.  They never liked me.
dr scott		 You did right.
riff raff		A decision had to be made.
dr scott		 You're OK by me.
riff raff		Dr Scott I'm sorry about your nephew.
dr scott		Yes, well perhaps it was for the best.
riff raff		You must leave now Dr Scott while it's still possible.  We are about to beam the entire house back to the planet of transexual in the galaxy of Transylvania. Go now.
riff raff		Our noble mission is almost completed my most beautiful sister, soon we will return to the moon-drenched shores of our "androgenous" planet.
magenta		Ah - sweet Transexual - land of night - to sing and dance once more to your dark refrains.  To take that step to the right...
riff raff		But it's the pelvic thrust that really drives you insane.
magenta		And our World will do the Time Warp again.
brad		I've done a lot God knows I've tried To find the truth I've even lied But all I know is down inside.
janet		 And super heroes Come to feast To taste the flesh Not yet deceased And al I know Is still the beast
trio		Is feeding.
narrator		And crawling on the planet's face Some insects called the human race Lost in time, and lost in space And meaning.
voices off		Meaning.
voice over		Science Fiction - double-feature Frank has built and lost his creature Darkness has conquered Brad and Janet The servants gone to a distant planet Oh - at the late night double-feature Picture Show - I want to go - Ohh - To the late night double-feature picture show.
****Dialogues from script :Ronin.txt****

killer		God loves me.
killer		 But I don't think he's too fond of you...
larry		 ...And that's not football.
vincent		 Football -- American football -- is a game for faggots.
deirdre		Can I help you?
sam		No...
deirdre		I'm here...  No, it was nothing.
sam		Sorry I'm late...
vincent		 What makes you think we're here to meet you?
sam		 Who else would you be?
vincent		Perhaps the police?
sam		I know cops -- and you're no cop.
vincent		Cigarette?
sam		No thanks.
sam		He trusts you to lock up?
vincent		Let's just say he knows who I am.
larry		Anybody wanna tell me what we're waiting for?
vincent		 The question isn't what we're waiting for... it's who.
larry		And who the fuck is that?
gregor		Whoever hired us.
sam		I got this gig through a contractor. And he most definitely didn't know who was doing the hiring, only that they were paying a lot of money...
sam		 So none of us knows who's paying the freight, this is just some anonymous job. For all we know, we're working for different people.
gregor		Now that is an interesting proposition.
swede		How so?
gregor		Because if there's more than one party involved, if we really are working for different people, then perhaps some of us are on different sides.  Your orders might be different from mine.
larry		What're you talking about, man?  I don't understand.
swede		 What a surprise...
larry		I got a surprise for you, blondie...
gregor		 Why don't both of you shut up?
sam		Knock it off!
sam		The point remains: we could be working for different people.  There's a chance for one of us...  ...unpleasantness.
larry		 Anybody tries to unpleasant me I'll put two between his eyes -- one to do the job and the other to make sure it takes.
deirdre		It's good to see you've all got such faith in our little undertaking.
larry		Who the fuck are you?
deirdre		 The name is Deirdre, and I'm running this show.
gregor		Who are you?  IRA?
deirdre		 Not likely.  Once, yeah, I was -- but there wasn't an inch of profit in it, and I'm a cash oriented girl, if you take my meaning.  I'm a hired gun, same as the rest of you, and that's all any of us needs to know about the other.
deirdre		From here on in you want something you pay cash for it: no credit cards, no bank accounts are in place: ten percent up front, the rest when the job is done.  You.  What do you do and what should we call you?
gregor		These days they they call me Gregor -- and I'm a tech.  I do electronic work, surveillance, computer runs.
sam		Sam.  I'm a weapons guy.
deirdre		You were a soldier, were you?
sam		Once.
larry		I drive -- and my name is Larry.  Larry from the States.
deirdre		 And who are you?
vincent		I'm Vincent.  And I coordinate.
sam		 Coordinate what?
vincent		Things.  This is my country, you know.
deirdre		 Are we in sync on this, Vincent?
vincent		Of course.
swede		They call me Swede.
larry		Who's they?
swede		Everybody.
vincent		And what is it you do?
swede		Me?  I kill.
sam		 You shoot alright.
larry		Gets the job done.
sam		All in the stomach, though.  Your man might live.
larry		Not for long.
sam		Long enough to shoot back.
larry		Is that right?
sam		It's been known to happen.
larry		 Why don't you go do better, then...
larry		Yeah, well...  My way works too.
sam		My way is better.
gregor		It's quite satifactory.
deirdre		Good, because it cost enough.  There's cheaper phones by far than that one, man: you better fucking use it.
gregor		 I intend to.  This phone is wired like no other: it's got an encryption chip and instant sat-a-link recognition, it can talk to any computer in any language and make it understand.  With my custom hardware and this phone I can trace the target's cell phone signature and follow him anywhere he goes...
deirdre		You sure about this?
gregor		I'd stake my reputation.
deirdre		But would you stake your life, that's the question...
gregor		In this business, your life and your reputation are more often than not one and the same.
swede		You should watch what you eat.
larry		Who the fuck died and appointed you food czar?
swede		I'm just worried about your health, Larry.  You could stand to shed a few pounds.
larry		 And you could stand to get a little smarter, ain't that right you dumb blonde fuck?
swede		 Who you calling dumb, dickless?
deirdre		 Next one of you fuckers plays this game I'm going to do for you myself.  I won't say it again: we don't have time for this shit!  There's a clock running on this job, gentlemen, and I mean to be on schedule.
vincent		Let's go for a ride.
sam		Where to?
vincent		To see a man about a thing.
sam		I can do that.
leader		 Who gave you permission to park here?
sam		 What's he saying?
vincent		Pretty much what you'd expect.
sam		 That's what I thought.
leader		 There's a charge for parking on our block.
vincent		 He says this is their block.
sam		As in, they own it?
vincent		Something like that...
sam		And I suppose he's saying that we oughta give them something for using it, huh?
vincent		I didn't know that you spoke French.
sam		I don't.  But the language he's speaking is universal.
vincent		If you think we should.
sam		 Let me give you a hand.
sam		What'd you say to him?
vincent		I asked if we could give him anything else.
vincent		That was a nice move you did on our young friend.  Judo?
sam		Jujitsu.
vincent		Same thing, isn't it?
sam		Not at all.  Similar, but not the same.
vincent		What's the difference?
sam		One's a lot more painful than the other.
vincent		Help yourself.  Since when do you smoke?
sam		 I have, I don't know, maybe a cigarette a week.
vincent		A cigarette?  As in one?  One cigarette a week, who smokes like that?
sam		I do.
vincent		Christ, I smoke a pack-and-a-half a day, and I tell myself I could be worse.  It's just so damned pleasurable.
sam		 Course, you get cancer and die, that's the down side.
vincent		 There is that.
sam		So, Vincent: why bring me along for the ride?  Job like this calls for a warm body, somebody who can stand around and look threatening.  A tough guy.
vincent		Like Larry or Swede.
sam		Exactly.  Why not bring them?
vincent		Let's just say I thought the conversational possibilities were limited.  Of course, I might have brought Gregor, but he didn't seem like the right candidate -- for this.
sam		Watch that one, he's an ex-spook for sure, maybe Stasi, maybe KGB.  He's smart, Gregor is.
vincent		So is the woman.
sam		Deirdre?  Smart, yeah, and seriously goddamned dangerous.
vincent		I wonder if she truly left the IRA.
sam		I've wondered that myself.  None of this answers my question, though...  Why bring me?
vincent		I wanted to see who you were.
sam		Who am I?
vincent		You were once some kind of special forces.  Airborne Ranger, maybe a Navy SEAL.  After that you rode shotgun for the CIA in some place like El Salvador or Afghanistan, a real mercenary.  Only now -- now you're like the rest of us, it's a very competitive market since the end of the cold war.  There's a lot of hired guns out here, and not nearly enough work to go around.
sam		That's right: there's not hardly enough work these days, nothing that pays the big money, anyhow.  Then along comes this job, paying so much goddamned money I couldn't afford not to take it.  Somebody's paying through the nose for this.
vincent		They certainly are.  Whatever it is we're going to steal, it must be quite something.
sam		Whatever it is it must be goddamned priceless.
vincent		Lovely, isn't it?
sam		They'd have to keep something like this under lock and key in New York, and it would still get fucked up.
francois		That's good right where you are, Vincent.
vincent		Do you have it?
francois		Not so fast.  Who's that?
vincent		He's company.
francois		 Bad company...
vincent		What do you mean?
francois		He's a cop, Vincent, he's French and he's a cop and you better shoot him in the fucking head right now!
sam		 What's going on?
vincent		I just wanted to see something.
sam		 See what?
francois		He wanted to see how you reacted when I said that you were a cop.
sam		 You told him I was a cop?
francois		He asked me to say it.
sam		 He asked you to?
vincent		I needed to know.
sam		You need to know a lot of shit, Vincent.
francois		 Are you ready?
vincent		 Here's yours.
francois		There's been a slight problem.
vincent		 What's that?
francois		 If you say a word in English, Vincent, my friend with the high powered sporting rifle will shoot you in the throat. Sorry to screw you over like this, but the information you want might get me killed if I give it to you, and that's a price I'm not willing to pay.
vincent		 I take it you still want the money...
francois		 Of course.
vincent		Where's my information?
francois		 In here...
vincent		Then you better find it in your heart to tell me, Francois, because while your death is inevitable, it still isn't decided how painful it's going to be.
sam		Now would be a good time to get the fuck out of here.
sam		You know, what you pulled back there, that was bullshit.
vincent		I needed to see if you were a cop.  I hate cops...
sam		 Well I ain't a cop.
vincent		How did you know?
sam		Know what?
vincent		That there was a gun pointed at me.
sam		I saw you look off when Francois nodded his head.  I figured he wasn't pointing out a particularly rare shrub, and the rest was easy.
vincent		But how did you know I would have the presence of mind to pull my weapon when I did?
sam		 Because that's what I would have done...
vincent		You saved my life back there in the park. I know this doesn't begin to make it right between us...
sam		What I did back in the park I did because we're working together -- we're on the same team.  This is business -- this is work.  We did it together, we share the spoils, even split.
vincent		I owe you a heavy debt.
sam		Whatever you say.
vincent		We kept it...
deirdre		 Is that right?
sam		Hazard pay...
deirdre		 The two of you were supposed to go to a simple meet and come back with a simple piece of information, and instead you went to fucking war...
sam		We weren't real thrilled about it either...
larry		So what's the deal?
deirdre		 The deal?  The deal is we leave for Nice at first light.
larry		What'd you guys do?
deirdre		I feel as if I've wandered onto the set of Enter The Dragon.  Could you teach me to do that?
sam		I didn't think to see you again tonight. You were pretty pissed.
deirdre		I still am.
sam		Is that right?
deirdre		That's right.
sam		Part of me says I should just look at this as a perk.  You know, a bonus.  But then I remember you're you -- Deirdre who used to belong to the IRA -- and it occurs to me that deceit and subterfuge come very naturally to you.
deirdre		 Nobody's saying they don't.
sam		 And when I consider that, I have to wonder if you don't have some ulterior motive for being here, with me, right now.
deirdre		I probably do.  But for the time being, I'm willing to forget about it...
gregor		I would imagine that the great satisfaction in all of this will be killing the American.
swede		 I hadn't thought about it.  Understand me, Gregor -- I take no pleasure in killing.  It doesn't bother me one bit, but I don't get off on it.
gregor		A means to an end, is that it?
swede		That's it.
gregor		 Then I guess we're set.
swede		There is one other thing...
gregor		What's that?
gregor		What are you doing?
swede		Don't cross me...
gregor		Nobody's going to do that!
swede		Really?
gregor		 I need you, Swede, I can't do this without you!
swede		 I just wanted to make sure you knew who you were dealing with.
gregor		I do, I do...
swede		 Just remember it, then.
deirdre		Look, Sam, don't take it the wrong way when I tell you we won't be doing this again.
sam		You don't have to explain yourself to me, Deirdre.
deirdre		 But I look at you and I get this feeling you take me for what I am: no more, no less.
sam		You're a hired gun, Deirdre -- just like me.
deirdre		Exactly.  And last night I wanted to be with someone who was just like me.
deirdre		I better be getting that.
sam		Duty calls?
deirdre		 Just business.
deirdre		Now then, let's run through it one more time, shall we?  What's your job?
gregor		I use my cell phone to get computer access to the telecommunications satellite used by our target.  I trace his cell phone signature and use it to pin point his location as he moves through Nice, relaying that information to you.
deirdre		 Next.
larry		 You call me with the target's route, I follow along until we've reached the attack point and then I run his squag ass off the road.
deirdre		 Which leads us to...
swede		I ride with fat-boy...
larry		 Eat shit and die slowly...
swede		After we stop the target car I get out and use the heavy artillery to kill the driver and his bodyguard.
larry		I blast the lead car into oblivion...
vincent		 While Sam and I take out the back two cars...
deirdre		Leaving...
swede		 ...Leaving me to step in, drop the target in the back seat, and get the package...
deirdre		 While...
sam		 ...While I back him up, making sure to get the package if something goes wrong and somebody takes Swede down.
swede		Nobody's taking me anywhere...
deirdre		And then...
larry		Then Swede and I split with the package and meet you back at the rendezvous.
deirdre		And then...
vincent		And then Sam, you and I clean up whatever's left to be cleaned.
deirdre		Very good.  Now all we have to do is live long enough to get paid.
deirdre		Alright, Gregor, I'm...
gregor		 Ready when you are...
larry		Where is this broad?
swede		You should learn a little patience.
larry		Is that right?
swede		It's consider a virtue in some corners of the world.
larry		Not in mine.
deirdre		You want to take a left, then, so that you're going west.
the target		Fuck you!
swede		Not today.
swede		I don't particularly like killing, tubby, but I want you to know that this one I'm going to enjoy.
larry		 I don't think so.
larry		 He just...I don't believe that son-of- a...
larry		 We've been crossed...
sam		 It's a cocktail.  Mostly demerol, cut with a little crank because we might need you awake in the real near future.
larry		Fine with fucking me, we got work to do. I don't care what it takes, we are getting our property back and putting it into the hands of the people who are gonna pay us a great deal of money when we do.  I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I'm not the kind of guy to just sit back and take it in the ass.  I don't mean that in, like, a literal way...
deirdre		Of course.
vincent		Finding this package is a thing easier said than done.  We don't even know what it is.  What did we steal?
deirdre		 I don't know.
vincent		When this whole thing started you made it clear: you're running the show.  And I don't believe you'd be running this show if you didn't know what was going on.
deirdre		Well I don't!
vincent		And I don't believe you...
deirdre		 You go shoot me if you want, Vincent, but you'll be dead before I hit the ground.
vincent		 I don't want you dead, woman, I want the the truth!
sam		 ...put your guns down and chill out.
sam		Like it or now, we're on the same side: we're here and the package isn't.  You're not the boss any more, you're our partner.  So tell us what you know, so we can figure a way out of this mess.
sam		Now, what did we steal?
deirdre		 But I do know who we're working for.  My people, and the Russian mob.
larry		Your people?  Who the fuck is your people?
vincent		Who do you think, Larry?  The IRA.
deirdre		And you believed me?  But it wasn't my people who did it.
larry		How do we know that?
sam		Because if they had she'd be gone along with the package, instead of sitting here with us.
deirdre		Exactly.  Gregor, he was the Russian's man.  It was my people came up with the idea for this run, but the Russians who had the capital to finance it.  Gregor, he was their insurance, and I was ours. Everybody else was supposed to be neutral.  Gregor must've got to Swede...
larry		I never did trust that blonde fuck...
deirdre		That's why you were riding with him.
vincent		The question still remains: what do we do now?
sam		 Gregor's cell phone...
larry		 What are you gonna do, call him up and ask him to give us back our shit?
sam		 Did he bring that with him?
deirdre		I bought it for him -- all the stuff he was using, it was in his contract.  Cost a nice penny, too, especially that goddamned phone: Gregor had expensive tastes.
sam		Check this out.  Gregor's a spook, or he was one until recently.  When he was a spy he lived the life -- you know, a prince in some Eastern Bloc country where nobody had shit and Gregor had everything.  Then the wall goes down.  No more Cold War.  And Gregor is out of a job.  No apartment, no special stores with Western food and video tapes.  I would bet dollars against shit that Gregor liked that phone and he doesn't want to give it up.  And I wouldn't be surprised if he's arrogant enough to think...
deirdre		 That we're too stupid to trace his calls.
gregor		 It's a beautiful street, no?
dapper gent		 Do you have it?
gregor		Always in a rush, you are.  All these years I've known you, you could never wait for anything.
dapper gent		This is important.
gregor		Do you really think so?
dapper gent		You know it is.
gregor		Relax!
gregor		Look over there.
dapper gent		What are you doing, have you lost your mind?!?
dapper gent		Why did you do that?
gregor		To make a point.  I don't know her, and I was ready to splatter her brains all over the sidewalk.  I don't particularly like you, so imagine what I'll do if you try anything...
dapper gent		 Enough!  We've been driving for an hour, where is my package?
gregor		It's under your seat.
dapper gent		 What?
gregor		As my American friend Larry would say: are you fucking deaf?  It's under your seat.
dapper gent		I can't believe you'd do that, Gregor.  I thought I trained you better than that.
dapper gent		I've never particularly liked you either, Gregor.
gregor		 It's done.
gregor		 Much to your disappointment, no doubt.
gregor		 I'm in the middle of saving you people a great deal of money -- the least you could do is have the decency to pay me!
gregor		What I do is none of your concern.  What you should do is wait for my next phone call.  I'm going to find a place where I can tilt the field in my favor.  When I'm ready, I'll call you and tell you what I want you to do.
sam		What's going on?
vincent		You weren't around when I woke up, I thought maybe something had happened.  Including you...
sam		I came up here to sneak a smoke.
vincent		You were smoking?
sam		I hope you don't mind I took your pack. It was on the table.
vincent		 Please, help yourself.  Smoke as many you'd like.
sam		 I borrowed that, too...
vincent		 Of course...whenever you feel like it just help yourself.
sam		I have a feeling I'm about to start buying my own.
sam		It was at that.
vincent		A lot of people died.
sam		I've seen a lot of people die before.
vincent		I haven't.  Not like that.  How do you get used to it?
sam		You don't.  You just learn to live with it.
vincent		I won't lie -- there have been times when I had to do it, times when the only way to get out alive was to see that the other man didn't.
sam		We live in a singular world, my friend.
vincent		I never really thought I was part of the world you move in, Sam, to tell you the truth.  I'm a hood, a thief.  Big time in a small time king of way.  To the local police I'm a prize, to the local hoods I'm a legend.  But to a guy like you I'm just another two bit hired gun.
sam		You might be a hired gun, Vincent, but I got a feeling you cost more than two bits.
deirdre		Christ, I was starting to think that the two of you had thrown it in and walked away.  There's someone on the phone downstairs asking for you, and my somewhat limited French leads me to believe that he might have something to tell us about Gregor.
larry		 That I could be dead and I'd drive better than you.
deirdre		 Oh shut up...
vincent		He's going north.  That's Aix en Provence, where he used the phone.
sam		 He's going back.
vincent		Not necessarily.  He could go off road at any number of places.  He might not even be in the country anymore.
sam		It's Paris.  The route's too indirect for anything else.  A guy like Gregor, he doesn't waste time on this road unless he has to be on it in the first place. Otherwise, he'd be out of the country by now.  He's going to Paris.  Now I just hope we can find him before he gets there.
deirdre		If somebody else doesn't find him first.
dad		Opera?  This is an opera festival?
mom		I told you that, Henry.
dad		I thought you meant Phantom of the Opera. You know, Andrew Lloyd Weber, Cats, that kind of thing.
larry		 This...this is incredible. Is the rest of Europe like this?
deirdre		 Some places, not all.  Italy, for instance, they're serious about their food.  But try bloody Britain, anywhere in the U.K., you don't get much fancier than a deep-fried bar egg.  Food's not our thing, you see.
larry		What is?
deirdre		 Best beer in the world known to man or God.
larry		 Best beer in the world?  Budweiser for me, thanks.
deirdre		 Budweiser?  You talk to me of beer and you've the unbridled gall to mention Budweiser in the same sentence?  That's not beer!  Christ, it's not even a poor excuse for rabbit piss.
larry		Oh yeah?  Whatta you drink, then?
deirdre		I drink what every civilized man, woman and child in the world drinks: Guinness.
vincent		...but we've got to get back on the road.
vincent		We've got him.
larry		I'm driving.
vincent		I know those men.
sam		Whatever you hear, whatever happens, when your partners come back out, you make sure you're here with the motor running.
gregor		Edvard, is that you?
edvard		Yes, Gregor, they sent me.
gregor		I'm touched, really, that they'd send someone of your caliber.  It's nice to know that they didn't make the mistake of underestimating me twice.
edvard		That was a mistake, trying to kill you. Mikhi did it without consulting me, I'd have never allowed it.
gregor		I'm sure.  But I'm sorry to say that it's too late for trust: we have a serious problem.
edvard		We'll double your price.
gregor		 Really?  Do you have the money with you?
edvard		Do you have the material?
gregor		You first, Edvard.
edvard		Perhaps we could both go at the same time...
gregor		 After you...
sam		You might have been one mean technical spook, Gregor, but you wouldn't have lasted a week in the field.
edvard		Gregor, are you alright?
deidre		 ...but I think you're in a bit of trouble.
sam		Don't talk to me unless you tell me what I want to hear, understand?!?  You have no choice in this, don't think about winning, think about staying alive.  I want the item, and if you don't give it to me, I'm gonna kill you.
gregor		 I don't have it with me...
sam		Bullshit!
gregor		I swear...
sam		Then where is it?
gregor		I sent it to myself in Paris.
sam		Sent it where?
gregor		A post office box.
edvard		 Do you know who he is?  He's with Interpol, the Internation Police.  He's a cop.
vincent		You're a cop...you're a fucking cop...I should kill you.
sam		But you can't.
seamus		 If you want to live you'll do exactly as I tell you.
edvard		Where do I know you from?
vincent		Vienna.
edvard		Of course...I remember.  I quite liked you, I'm sorry to have to do this.
deirdre		Cold cocking the poor son-of-a-bitch would have sufficed, Seamus, don't you think?
vincent		That double-crossing bitch.
vincent		That makes twice now you've saved my life.
sam		I didn't save your life back there. Risked it, maybe -- but I didn't save shit.
vincent		You see it your way, I'll see it mine. You need a doctor.
sam		 You know one around here?  Somebody you trust?
vincent		No...I thought I'd take you to the hospital.
sam		 No hospitals.  I'll fix this myself if I have to.
vincent		 You're a cop.
sam		Not exactly.
vincent		You're with Interpol -- you're a cop.
sam		If I was a cop, a real cop, I'd have busted you a long time ago.  This isn't about you, it's about the job I have to do.
vincent		And what job is that?
sam		My job, Vincent, a job you don't need to know about.  I can't go to the local cops -- they'd never be able to get close enough at this point.  It's me or nobody, and I've been on this job too goddamned long not to finish.
vincent		It looks to me like we're all that's left of our group.
sam		We?  There is no we in my world now, Vincent, just me.
vincent		I'm going with you.
sam		This doesn't involve you, don't you understand?  I can't even guarantee you any money out of all this.
vincent		It isn't about money for me, not anymore.
sam		You don't have to do this.
vincent		 Yes I do.
deirdre		When we're done with this, I want to do for that one myself.
seamus		Now there's the Deirdre I know.
deirdre		And what's that supposed to mean, Seamus Reilly?
seamus		It means I was worried that all the time you spent away from the fold might have affected you.  You've been living the life of the hired gun -- the well paid hired gun, I might note.  There's no glory to it, but there are those that like it.
deirdre		So you thought that maybe I'd grown too attached to this charade I've been playing, is that it?
seamus		It's been known to happen.
deirdre		Not to me, you know that.
seamus		 I thought I did.
deirdre		I guess you don't know me, then, if you think I won't kill you for an insult like that!
seamus		Just testing, lass.  Forgive me, but I had to do it.
deirdre		Remember what we agreed on, Seamus: when we get home, I don't play "the girl" again.
vincent		Hello, Jean-Pierre.
sam		American.
vincent		 It's right there, beneath the surface.  I can just make it out.
sam		 Alright, let's do it.
sam		Douse the wound with alcohol.
sam		 Take that sponge and wipe away as much of the blood as you can, keep it clean so I can see.
sam		 Take the clamp...
sam		Peel back the skin and attach the clamp.
vincent		Alright, it's done.
sam		You see the bullet?
vincent		Clearly.
sam		Good.  Now take the forceps, and remember, Vincent, what we're doing here is routine.  I've done stuff like this at least twenty times in the field.  There are no vital organs where you're working, no major muscles or arteries -- you can't kill me.  Just make sure you've got the bullet before you try to pull it out.
vincent		 A souvenir...
sam		 You think you can stitch me up on you own?
sam		Then if you don't mind...  I'm gonna pass out.
vincent		Yes, Sam's tough alright.
vincent		Of course.  Don't you?
vincent		 Not exactly.
vincent		How did you know?
sam		 Some, thanks.  Enough to move on, for now.
sam		Soon.
sam		Yeah.
sam		It gets done now or not at all.  Another couple of days and the parties concerned are gone where I can't get them.
sam		Vincent told you that I'm a cop?
sam		So this is what, a test?
sam		If I was healthy, I could take that away from you.
sam		So what is it you want to know?
sam		Created?
sam		Vincent's life is his own burden; he'll have to carry it for himself.  And I'm not any kind of Samurai.
sam		A Samurai has honor, a Samurai live by the code of Bushido, the way of the warrior.  I'm just a killer for hire.  The world isn't about honor, anymore. It's about survival.
deirdre		Where's the case?
gregor		 There's a problem...
seamus		 Problem my ass!  I think you're lying to me, and if you are you're a dead man!
deirdre		Would somebody tell me what fucking well happened in there?
seamus		 Nothing.
gregor		 The package didn't come.  I'm sure it will tomorrow.
seamus		 If you're lying to me you poor excuse for a human being, I'm gonna blow your brains all over this car.
gregor		 I swear, it has to come here!  It has to...
seamus		Ease up, man...I'm just checking to make sure you're on the level.
seamus		And it seems to me I saw a sign in there that says they got a late afternoon delivery.  Why don't we come back later today and do this all over again, huh?
tony		Hey, man, they're both great movies.  One is more of a character study, the other is more of a straight action thing, but they're great movies, and he's an amazing fucking filmmaker.
tony		Excuse me...
tony		 My man, how you doing?
vincent		I'm alright.  And you?
tony		Doing well.  This is?
vincent		A friend.  I was telling him about how you always have the latest tapes.
tony		Why don't we step into my office...
tony		So what can I do for you?
vincent		I was wondering if you had any movies that were particularly new.
tony		Matter of face there's this flick I've been hearing about.  I haven't seen it, but from what I hear it's pretty cool.
sam		What's the story?
tony		It's an international thing.  Several different peoples involved, criminals from all over the world, experts brought together to do a job.  But maybe the most interesting thing about it is that preeminent in the plot we find the Russian Mob and the IRA in bed together. An unlikely group of partners.
vincent		Do you have the tape?
tony		I might know where you could get a copy.
tony		 Let me do some business with my boy here, and I'll meet you across the street in five.  I gotta make homes here feel like he's getting a good deal while I give him the pleasure of overpaying me for a couple of second generation pirates.
tony		 What I've heard so far, it's all a lot of talk.  I wasn't so sure what to make of it at first, cause, like I said, the Irish and the Russians are an unlikely mix.
vincent		You said you might know where we can get a copy of this tape?
tony		All depends on whether you want the Russian or the Gaelic language version.
sam		 Gaelic.
tony		You sure?
sam		I'm sure.
vincent		 Can you get it?
tony		The Russian would be easier.
sam		Why's that?
tony		Cause the Russian production company would be easier to find.
sam		It's the Irish tape we want.
tony		 Gonna be tough.
tony		Last I heard there was a film rep for the Irish players staying at this address, name of Seamus Reilly.
sam		 Seamus Reilly.
vincent		 You know him?
sam		I know of him.
tony		Seamus Reilly, boy's a serious Irish Auteur -- a real firebrand.  Thinks his more moderate filmmaking brethren have turned to making movies for peace-loving pussies, if you see what I'm saying.
vincent		I get the picture.
vincent		Tony and I have to talk some business, first.
tony		I gotta try and overcharge him, he has to moan about the price, we settle somewhere in the middle.
vincent		It's a matter of respect.  Why don't you wait outside, this won't take long.
sam		The Irish representative?
vincent		Yes.
sam		What's this?
vincent		The address of the Russian production company.  Just in case we need to find them.
sam		Thorough man.
sam		You sure your friend got the right place?
vincent		If Tony says this is it, then it's it.
vincent		Tell me, Sam: why do you do this?
sam		Do what?
vincent		Continue when it would be so much easier to give it up.
sam		It's my job.
vincent		Then quit.  You don't work for Interpol, Sam.
sam		Sure I do.  You heard him, you heard the guy -- that's what he said, what Edvard said.
vincent		It's a cover, then.  A cover within a cover, a feint within a feint.  You work for the CIA, it's the only possible answer.
sam		I'm a field agent -- last of an already extinct breed.  I do dark ops.
vincent		Dark ops?
sam		Dark operations.  Wet work.  Kidnaping. Assassination.
vincent		Very ugly.
sam		It is at that.
vincent		Not very zen of you, huh?  Not so much the modern Samurai after all.
sam		I never made that claim.
vincent		I know.  Jean-Pierre did.
sam		You were behind the door?
vincent		I was waiting to see what would happen. I didn't want to kill him if I didn't have to.
sam		You would have done that?
vincent		I would have tried not to.  But yes, if it would have kept him from shooting you, I would have.
sam		 How could you have done that?
vincent		Because I owe you.  Look at that...
sam		 They don't have the package.
vincent		You think?
sam		You said it yourself: Gregor's not dead. If they had the package, they'd have killed him.
sam		Don't do it...
deirdre		Well, if it isn't Mr. Interpol himself.  I can't believe I misjudged you like I did.
sam		Oh please..you're on some sort of holy mission?
deirdre		I'm a patriate.
sam		Don't even think that I'm buying that.
deirdre		Where do you get off saying word one? All the time pretending to be one of us, it's the same thing we were doing, Seamus and myself.  And here you are so high and mighty, like you're so different from the rest of us.
sam		I didn't say I was.
deirdre		 Bloody fucking hell...
sam		Don't even think it.
sam		I'd kill you before you had it halfway out.
vincent		What the fuck happened?
sam		I don't know...
vincent		You don't know?  Bullshit, you had her, there was no way out.
seamus		What in bloody hell is going on?
deirdre		They're part of the team.  One of them's the guy I told you about.
seamus		From Interpol?
deirdre		That's him.
vincent		Why didn't you kill her?
seamus		Why didn't you kill him?
vincent		 You slept with her!
seamus		How is it these fellahs managed to get the drop on us?
deirdre		I told you: they're good...
vincent		 You slept with her!
seamus		 You should have kill him when you had the chance.  But no...
vincent		You put everything on the line because you...
seamus		 You slept with the fucker!!
vincent		Left left left!!!
seamus		 This better be the real thing or you're a dead man!
gregor		It is, I'm telling you it is!!
seamus		You've told me a lot of things, boyo...
seamus		Lose them!
deirdre		You lose them!
seamus		To the right!!!
sam		Give me a cigarette.
vincent		Right now?
sam		Gimme a goddamn cigarette!!!!
vincent		 You're not French, you don't live here, you don't know these roads.  Why are you driving?
seamus		About time!
deirdre		 Not yet...
seamus		 Good Christ!  Can't you lose these jokers?
deirdre		 They're good!
sam		Nice place.
vincent		 I'm not here very much.
sam		Business keeps you on the road?
vincent		Something like that.
sam		I know I don't need to say this to you, but I need to say it to you.  This is my job, I have to do it.
vincent		So I do it.
sam		No you don't, and you know it.
vincent		If our positions were reversed, would you leave me?
sam		 In a minute.
vincent		I think not.
vincent		 Do we need anything else?
sam		Yeah.  We need out fucking heads examined.
deirdre		You better be careful, Seamus, before something happens a plastic surgeon can't fix.
seamus		 You think I'm going to fix this, Deirdre lass?  It's the mark of the patriot, and I'll wear it like a badge.  As for those who done it to me, I'll take my pound of flesh before this is all over.
deirdre		You're thinking with your gun, Seamus, and not your head...
seamus		 Shut up and drive!  I'm your superior officer and you will do as I goddamn well say, is that understood?!?
seamus		Do I need to repeat myself?
deirdre		No, Seamus.  I heard you the first time.
sam		Not here.  They might see it.
vincent		If I'm going to die for the CIA, I'm going to go out smoking.  Besides, there's half a forest between us and them, they can't see a goddamned thing.
sam		Time to quit.
vincent		Just like that?
sam		Not just like that... Just before I turn around and it's six months from now and the first thing I do when I wake up in the morning is light a cigarette.
vincent		 Samurai pain in the ass.
sam		 Would you stop with that...
vincent		Why?  You've got more force of will than anyone I've ever seen.  You handle a gun like it's a part of you, you perform surgery on yourself without anesthesia...  And most amazing of all, you quit smoking, just like that.
sam		 What I do for the Company, Vincent, is no different than what you do.  We're both hired guns, and this is a job -- like any other job.
vincent		Why then, Sam, don't you act like this is a job like any other?  Surely, if you are a hired gun, you realize that some times you just have to walk away without getting what you came for.
sam		Because I don't walk away.
vincent		Why not?
sam		It's the one thing I've got left to hold onto.  Jean-Pierre is one of your closest friends, is he not?
vincent		Closest and oldest.
sam		And yet you would have killed him to save my life.  You have a sense of honor, Vincent, that I can't even remember anymore.  I don't know that I ever even had it to begin with.  All I know to do, Vincent, is to finish my job.
vincent		And when you finish?  What then?  This package, whatever it is, do you give it to the CIA?  Do you really think they deserve it?
sam		That's a good question.
vincent		Do you have a good answer?
sam		 No, I don't.
mikhi		 Would you like one?
gregor		 Since I won't speak your language, and you can't speak mine, English will do nicely.
mikhi		 This has all been a terrible mistake, Gregor.  I wanted to play straight with you, but Edvard insisted we try and kill you.
gregor		Edvard said the same thing about you before he died.
mikhi		I'm shocked, shocked to think that you'd believe him.
gregor		 Enough!
mikhi		Ahh...
gregor		What is he doing here?
seamus		What am I doing here?  Why, I'm here to see my partners, Gregor, the boys in the Russian Mafia.  See, your bosses had hoped to screw me by hiring you to pull your thieving double cross.  But they only just found out that what's in the briefcase is completely useless without me.  I can't fight them, and they can't kill me -- that means we're gonna have to do business together.
gregor		But you hate each other!
seamus		What's a little hate between business partners?
sam		I'm on point, Vincent.
gregor		 So, you've got it all figured, do you?
seamus		Figured enough to know there's an odd man out and I'm looking at him.
gregor		I think not.  I have, of course, taken the precaution of wiring the briefcase to explode five seconds after it opens.  Unless, of course, I deactivate it before it goes off.
deirdre		 That fucking figures...
gregor		Should any of you decide to rush me, I'll kill myself and whoever happens to be near me at the time.
mikhi		And more importantly --
gregor		I'll destroy whatever's in the case.
seamus		It looks, Gentlemen, as if we're gonna have to sit down to table and work out an agreement.
mikhi		What was that?
vincent		That's one less I owe you...
deirdre		 You two stay here and watch our mutual interest.
sam		Let's work our way through the building. I'll take one wing, you take the other.
sam		Watch your back, Vincent.
seamus		I can't take it anymore.  Watch him, man, I'm going out and finish what needs finishing!
sam		Go on, them...
deirdre		Let it go, Sam, walk away.
deirdre		God damn it!
gregor		 We'll die if we stay here!
mikhi		 You'll die if you leave here.
vincent		You have to stop doing that!
sam		I'll work on it...
seamus		It's you...  You're the one did this to my face, are you?
sam		That's me.
seamus		Have a nice afterlife.
seamus		Deirdre, do for him, woman, put a fucking bullet in his head!
seamus		Do it, for Christ's sake, do it so we can find that stinking Gregor, he's got the bloody package!  For God's sake, you're a soldier...
seamus		 You're one of us...You been born and bred with your own people, you can't go against your nature.  C'mon, girl, I'm you're people.
deirdre		I'm no girl, Seamus...
deirdre		And you ain't nobody's people.
sam		 Let's get him out of here...
vincent		Finish the job...
sam		And now...
vincent		 Finish it!
deirdre		 Sam...
vincent		I'm really sick of you saving my life.  Go out and get the bastard.
deirdre		He's got the briefcase rigged to explode five seconds after anybody other than himself tries to open it.
sam		Deirdre, wait up --
gregor		You might have made a good field agent you arrogant American prick, but you're not smart enough to go up against me.
gregor		Go ahead, shoot... Shoot and kill the bitch, I don't care.  And yet you don't shoot.  Interesting. Put down your weapon and walk away.
deirdre		Don't do it, Sam!
gregor		Shut up!
deirdre		He'll kill me anway, Sam, shoot though me and kill this fucker.
seamus		 Shoot that traitorous bitch and I'll let you live.
sam		Are you alright?
deirdre		Alright?  It's bloody fucking freezing in here!
detective		I need to speak with that man.
sam		I'm sorry, I can't allow that.
sam		Call that number and ask them what you should do.
doctor		You can see your friend, now.
sam		Thank you very much.
doctor		The field dressing you put on saved his life.  Where di you learn to do that?
sam		Here and there, I guess.
vincent		You son-of-a-bitch...
sam		What?
vincent		You speak French.
sam		What of it?
vincent		 Nothing...
vincent		 "Your field dressing saved his life." That's three I owe you.
sam		You don't owe me a goddamned thing, Vincent, and you know it.  You stepped in front of a bullet for me.  I owe you a heavy debt.
vincent		 I know.
sam		 You better get some sleep, alright?
vincent		Tell me something first.  The package: what was it?
sam		I don't know.  Nobody knows, except a bunch of people who are too dead to tell us.  There's probably a couple of guys back at the Company who know, but I don't think they plan to tell me anytime soon.
vincent		What happened to it?
sam		Gone.  Destroyed.
vincent		 I guess that's for the best.
vincent		Sam, when Gregor had Deirdre by the lake, you could have killed the two of them with one shot.  You could have had the package, finished the job.  But you didn't, you sacrificed the job to save her life.  Why?
sam		It's what you would have done.
sam		I told you, I quit.
vincent		Just to keep me company, Sam -- I hate smoking alone.  How about you?  I thought all you IRA types smoked.
deirdre		Only the stupid ones.  Cigarettes kill more patriots than bullets.  Besides, I'm not IRA no more.
vincent		So where do you go from here?
deirdre		I don't know.  I was thinking...Maybe the three of us might partner up -- guns for hire, that sort of thing.
vincent		I'm up for that...
sam		Not me.  You work too often with the same people and you become friends -- clouds your judgement.
deirdre		Come off it, Sam -- if we weren't friends already we wouldn't be here now, would we?
vincent		She's got a point.  Besides, I know of a job that's available.
sam		How much does it pay?
punk		This is for Seamus!
vincent		 We have to go, Sam, we can't be here.
vincent		 Let's go!!
vincent		 Doctor's orders...
****Dialogues from script :Room.txt****

jack		Ma. I'm five!
jack		Morning lamp, Morning rug, Morning wardrobe .. 
ma		 Mind over matter.
jack		If we don't mind, it doesn't matter.
ma		Guess what we're going to make later.
jack		What?
ma		A cake.
jack		A birthday cake, like in TV?
ma		But for real.
ma		Come on slow poke.
jack		You, pink soft, pink swirls.
ma		You always pick that. But I guess it's your birthday.
jack		Me, bear and jeans.
ma		Good choice!
ma		Off, please.
jack		Just one more planet.
ma		Too much TV will turn us into zombies ... Anyway, it's time to mark how tall you are.
ma		Oh, that's pretty normal.
jack		Yeah?
ma		Everything's hunky-dory.
jack		Okey-dokey.
ma		Sorry, I already asked for jeans for you for Sunday Treat.
jack		I'm going to grow and grow till I'm a giant. Look, Ma. Look how big my superpowers are already.
ma		You'll be as strong as Samson soon.
jack		 Huger every day.
ma		Gigantic.
jack		Enormous. Hugeormous.
ma		Good word sandwich.
jack		I'm going to be Jack the Giant Giant-Killer and burst out of Skylight into Space with my dog Lucky and boing boing boing between all the planets...
ma		Come on, you can read Dylan yourself.
jack		I can read them all but I like when you do.
ma		Heeeeeeeere's Dylan, the sturdy digger! / The loads he shovels get bigger and bigger. / Watch his long arm delve into the earth, / No excavator so loves to munch dirt.
ma		Our friend Table... just isn't able.
jack		Our friend Spoon, sings to the moon.
ma		Our friend Knife runs for his life.
ma		Abracadabra!
jack		Now the candles.
ma		Jack -
jack		You should ask for candles for Sunday Treat, not dumb jeans.
ma		Sorry. I have to ask for stuff we really need that he can get easily.
jack		But Old Nick gets anything, by magic.
ma		Try your cake, I bet it's delicioso.
jack		Next week when I'm six you better ask for real candles.
ma		Next year, you mean.
ma		But one day the mermaid finds where the fisherman hid her comb.
jack		Ha ha.
ma		So she runs home to the sea.
jack		Does he drown?
ma		No, he's half-merman. He can breathe air or water, whichever. Satisfied, Jack leans over to scoop up the pile of clothes.
jack		Laundry Time.
ma		... and Edmond swims and swims to the island of Monte Cristo and digs up all the treasure, and ...
jack		Can we have more birthday cake?
ma		Tomorrow.
jack		Just a bite.
ma		We've brushed our teeth already.
jack		One more story?
ma		Jack, it's late. Come on.
ma		OK.
old nick		What's that? A birthday cake?
jack		 Five.
jack		One twenty-eight, one twenty- nine...
jack		Three hundred six, seven, eight -
ma		Shh.
ma		 Cheap piece of ...
jack		Why Plant doesn't make flowers anymore?
ma		Maybe she's tired.
jack		You made him gone!
ma		They'd steal our food.
ma		They'd bring in germs, bite us in the night.
jack		Mouse is my friend and you splatted him dead.
ma		No I didn't, he's hunky-dory.
jack		Are you just tricking me?
ma		I swear, he's safe at home with his Ma in the backyard.
jack		What backyard?
ma		Hey, let's make a UFO with this.
jack		Why you didn't tell Old Nick it was my birthday?
ma		Because he's not our friend.
jack		He said he'd brung me a present.
ma		You shouldn't hear what he - You're meant to be asleep.
jack		I never had a present.
ma		He didn't mean it.
jack		It might be Lucky my dog.
ma		Jack. We can't have a dog. We don't have room -  - space, enough space - cooped up in here with the barking, the scratching...
jack		Lucky won't scratch, he promises.
ma		There is no Lucky!
jack		Yeah there is.
ma		He's just made-up, in your head, he's not real.
hostess		...most poignant aspect, I can speak for all our viewers, so, so deeply moved by what you endured.
jack		Ma. Where are we when we're asleep?
ma		Right here in Room.
jack		But dreams. Do we go into TV for dreaming?
ma		We're never anywhere but here.
jack		I want some.
jack		Ma! I think Old Nick lives in TV, like Mouse. That's where he goes when he's not here in Room.
ma		Jack. Go to sleep. 18   INT. ROOM - DAY                                              18
ma		You can open it.
jack		 I can do it.
jack		Tomorrow we'll do even louderer.
ma		Jack!
jack		What smells bad?
old nick		Yeah, well, thinking's not your strong suit.
old nick		So did he like his truck?
ma		The vitamins?
old nick		Waste of money.
ma		If we had a better diet, maybe...
ma		I'm sorry.
old nick		Like pulling teeth sometimes.
ma		No.
old nick		Who pays the power bills? Who pays for everything?
ma		You.
old nick		And where do you think the money's going to keep coming from? MA What do you mean?
old nick		Nothing.
ma		No, but -
ma		What are you going to do?
ma		He's asleep.
old nick		Don't think so. You keep him in the closet all day as well as all night? Poor little freak has two heads or something?
ma		Let's go to bed.
old nick		Didn't your Momma ever teach you manners?
ma		Please.
old nick		Hey sonny.
ma		Get away from him! Get away!
jack		Sorry I - sorry - sorry -
ma		It's OK.
jack		Ma, we're dragons.
ma		He's cut the power.
jack		For, you see, so many out-of-the- way things had happened lat-ely -
ma		Lately.
jack		- lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few things indeed were really impossible.
ma		Lunch!
jack		No thanks.
ma		We have to use them up before they rot. Once we eat we'll feel warmer.
jack		When's Old Nick going to put the power back? MA Soon.
jack		When's soon?
ma		Once he's not mad with me anymore.
jack		I hope he never comes back not ever.
ma		Jack.   Think about it.
jack		No Sunday Treat?
ma		No anything.
jack		My friend Mouse?
ma		You know where he is right now?
jack		What other side?
ma		Oh Jack, everything has two sides.
jack		Not an octagon.
ma		No, that's -
ma		But a wall's like this. And we're on the inside, in Room, and Mouse is on the outside, see?
jack		In Outer Space?
ma		No, in the world.   It's much closer than Outer Space.
ma		But if we were outside in the world, we would, we'd be looking at the other side of this wall, and Mouse lying in the grass with his Ma. We'd see trees and cars and -
ma		Is it, though? You know when Door opens and the air comes in, the air that smells fresher - that's grass. Jack tries to laugh.
jack		You can't smell TV.
ma		But it's not TV. It's the real world we smell. You're so smart, I know you've started wondering.
jack		From TV by magic.
ma		There's no magic! Everything we see on TV - it's pictures of real stuff and real people in the world.
jack		Dora's real for real?
ma		No, sorry, not Dora, she's just a picture, but the other ones, with faces like ours - and there's real streets and oceans, dogs, cats -
ma		Just out there, in the world.
jack		Can I have a sandwich?
ma		Look! A leaf!
jack		Where?
ma		On skylight.
jack		Dumbo Ma. That's not a leaf. Leaves are green.
ma		On the trees they are but when they fall they rot, like salad, in the fridge, they -.
jack		 Where's all the stuff you said? Trees and dogs and -
ma		No I'm not.
jack		Liar liar pants on fire!
ma		Jack. I couldn't explain before, you were too small to understand, so.. I had to make up a story. 
jack		I want to be four again.
ma		You know how Alice wasn't always in Wonderland?
jack		She fell down down down the hole.
ma		Well, I'm like Alice. I wasn't always in Room.
ma		I lived in a house out in the world  - with my mom and dad. You'd call them Grandma and Grandpa.
jack		What house?
ma		The house where we lived, with a hammock in the back yard. We used to swing in the hammock and eat ice cream.
jack		A TV house?
ma		It's not TV, Jack. Are you listening?
jack		Where was I?
ma		Still up in heaven. So this guy ran up to me, saying his -
ma		We call him Old Nick, but I don't know his real name. He pretended his dog was sick, he seemed really -
ma		There was no dog. It was just a trick to get me into his truck. Old Nick stole me. JACK I want a different story.
ma		You need to hear this one. He put me in his garden shed.
jack		Where?
ma		Here. Room's the shed. He's the only one with the code - secret numbers to open the door. I've been locked in here for seven years. Do you understand?
jack		This story's boring.
ma		Jack, the world. You wouldn't believe how big it is. Room's only a tiny stinky piece of it.
jack		Room's not stinky.   Only when you do a fart.
ma		OK.
jack		I don't believe in your stinky world.
ma		 Fine. That's fine Jack.
jack		It's warm again.
ma		Apple?
jack		Bad Tooth? Can I have it?
ma		Sure, if you want it.
jack		Are turtles real?
ma		Totally real. I had a pet turtle. DAVID ATTENBOROUGH Crocodiles, sharks, and hungry fish are all waiting in the shallows.
jack		Crocodiles and sharks -
ma		They're all real.
anne		Oh, my lord...
henry		 Not while he plays here...
anne		 I'll send him away -
ma		Ah, they're real people playing dress-up, pretending to be people from hundreds of years ago.
jack		Just TV?
ma		You're getting it!
jack		When Old Nick comes back, I'm going to kick him in the butt.
ma		Jack.
jack		We could wait till he's asleep and kill him dead.
ma		Yes we could, but then we'd have no more food - and we wouldn't know the code, on the door, to get out.
jack		The Grandma and the Grandpa could come.
ma		They don't know where we are, Jack. Room's not on any map.
jack		Can I have more TV?
ma		Jack, I want you to listen to me. Jack!
ma		I'm going to make your face so scorching hot that Old Nick will take you to the hospital in his truck, and the minute you get there you'll tell the doctors, 'Help! Police!
jack		You can tell it.
ma		I'll write you a note to give them.
jack		You can give them.
ma		I won't be in the hospital, I'll be here.
jack		No. No.
ma		It'll be OK.
jack		With you!
ma		He won't take us both. You'll go first, just to the hospital so you can tell the police, and then...
jack		Maybe next year when I'm six.
ma		Tonight.
jack		Tomorrow.
ma		I'm your Ma. Sometimes I have to pick for both of us.
jack		Ow!
ma		You need to feel hot when he touches you.
jack		What are you doing?
ma		Makes you smell sick.
jack		I'm scared.
old nick		You know the drill: not a peep out of you till the door's shut.
ma		Sorry, just - Jack's really bad.
old nick		You brought that on yourself.
ma		I couldn't keep him warm, and now he's burning.
old nick		Give him one of those painkillers.
ma		I've tried, he pukes them back up. Old Nick comes up close to Jack.
old nick		I'll get him something stronger.
ma		He's only five! Dehydrated, temperature this high, he could go into convulsions any minute.
ma		He needs antibiotics.
old nick		I'll bring something tomorrow night.
ma		Tomorrow night? You have to take him to the ER right now.
old nick		Enough with the hysterics.
ma		I'm begging you. Please!
ma		So Edmond pulls his friend's body out of the bag and hides it, and he climbs into the bag, and lies super still until the guards come.
jack		 Our bags are too small for being dead in.
ma		Rug's going to be the bag, see?
jack		I don't want to be dead.
ma		Pretending to be dead, that's all. Wrapped up so Old Nick can't see that you're alive. But not floppy this time. All stiff like a robot. And not a sound. And I'll be in your head, talking to you all the time. 
ma		It's OK. You'll wriggle free and jump out of the truck. You'll -
ma		Come on, Jack, let's try rolling you up.
jack		Uh uh.
ma		Please Jack, try just for a minute.
jack		Half a minute.
ma		OK.
jack		Yeah.
jack		I can't.   I'm stuck.
jack		I can't.
ma		Push, Jack.
jack		Get me out.
jack		Out!
jack		I hate you.
ma		That's OK. I brought you here to Room. I didn't mean to but I did, and I've always been so glad. And now it's my job to get you out.
jack		Truck, wriggle out, Jump, Run -
ma		Wait till the truck slows down at the first stop sign - if you jump when it's going fast you might -
jack		Somebody, Run - MA Jump, Run, then shout to Somebody and show them the Note.
jack		Who is Somebody?
ma		Anybody - the first person you see.
jack		An actual real person.
ma		He's not going to -
jack		It's in here so I don't lose it.
ma		You're going to love it.
jack		What?
ma		The world. Living in the hammock house with your Grandma and Grandpa...
jack		And you.
ma		One evening as the sun went down and the jungle fire was burning, down the track came a hobo hikin', and he said "Boys, I'm not turning. I'm headed for a land that's far away, beside the crystal fountains. So, come with me, we'll go and see the Big -
ma		Where will you take him?
ma		 Now. I can't bear it.
old nick		OK, OK.
doug		Boomer!
old nick		It's under control.
doug		She been in some kind of accident? You want me to call someone? OLD NICK I'll take care of it.
doug		What's that you got there, honey?
doug		OK, I don't like this.
doug		 I've got your plates, mister! K93 -
officer parker		Hey there, I'm Officer Parker. What's your name?
jack		Jack.
officer parker		Jackie?
jack		Jack.
officer grabowski		We have a disturbed female juvenile, possible domestic -
officer grabowski		Correction, male juvenile.
officer parker		You must be freezing, Jack.
officer grabowski		 That's negative. White male, six feet, forties, fifties, beard, red pick-up, Ford, nineties F150, maybe, no state partial plate K93. OFFICER PARKER Do you have another name? Jack?
jack		 Ten.
officer parker		 You're ten years old?
jack		Ten fingers.
officer parker		No, I meant show me with your fingers how old you are.
jack		I'm five.
officer parker		Five, great. And your address?
officer grabowski		Guess we should get onto Child Protection?
officer parker		Where do you sleep at night, Jack? Where do you go to bed? JACK In Wardrobe.
officer grabowski		In a wardrobe?
officer parker		You have a Mom, Jack?
jack		Ma.
officer parker		Is that her real name, Jack?
jack		She used to be Joy.
officer parker		Is there another name, after Joy.
jack		Room.
officer parker		What room? Where's the room?
jack		Not on any map.
officer parker		The man with the truck, that your dad? Ma's boyfriend? You know him?
jack		Old Nick.
officer grabowski		Speak up!
jack		 Old Nick. But that's not his name.
officer parker		Did this Nick guy hurt you?
jack		I bit me by accident. And the, the, the -
officer parker		What's that, Jack?
jack		A bit of Ma.
officer parker		So, Jack? You see anything?
jack		Everything.
officer parker		No, but anything you recognise? Your room, Jack, is it in a bungalow - all one level? Or stairs? What's outside the room?
jack		Space.  The world.
officer grabowski		You reckon the kid's on something?
officer parker		Jack, when you step out the door -
jack		We don't know to open the door.
officer grabowski		My money's on some kind of cult. The tooth, the long hair...
officer parker		Is there daylight in your room?
jack		Zero.
officer parker		Then how does the sun come in?
jack		Through Skylight.
officer parker		Excellent.  Check the satellite. Sounds like his mother's being held in a house with a skylight.
officer grabowski		Needle in a haystack...
officer parker		OK.
jack		It's a...
officer parker		Yeah?
jack		It's a...
officer grabowski		Might get more out of him when he's had some sleep.
officer parker		 Tom, give me a break.
jack		 Room's a... a shed.
officer parker		A shed! You're doing great, Jack. Now, after you got in the truck -
jack		He putted me - I wasn't meant to be alive.
officer parker		What made you jump out of the truck, Jack?
jack		Ma said in my head.
officer parker		What did she say, exactly?
jack		Jump when it Slows Down. But I couldn't, I was all...
officer parker		So what did you do?
jack		The third time, I got banged.
officer parker		The third time of what?
jack		The third slow, everything went sideways -  - and then it stopped and I jumped and -
officer parker		Stay with the boy.
officer grabowski		 You OK, kid?
jack		Can we go to Bed now?
ma		We can do anything. They'll find us somewhere to sleep soon.
jack		No, but Bed. In Room.
jack		Ma.
jack		Ma. Ma.
ma		Good morning sleepy head. I was waiting so long for you to wake I fell back asleep.
jack		Is this another planet?
ma		Same one, just a different bit. It's a room -  A bedroom in a hospital.
jack		Are we sick for real or pretend?
ma		We're not sick. We're the opposite of sick.
ma		Not long. Grandma saw us last night and she'll take us when they say we're OK.
jack		And Grandpa.
ma		He was away at work but he's getting on a plane to come home.
jack		I wetted the bed ... before. I'm sorry.
ma		That's OK.
jack		What's that?
ma		Do you like it? There's one for you, too.
jack		That's waste.
ma		We'll get new ones.
jack		For Sunday Treat?
ma		There are going to be so many treats, not just on Sundays.
jack		Where's the bath.
ma		It's a shower instead.   Splashier.
jack		Ma, will he find us.
ma		No, he will never, ever come again. 46   INT. HOSPITAL - MA AND JACK'S SUITE - BATHROOM - DAY      46
jack		Bath before Bed.
ma		What?
jack		Bath before Bed, that's the rule.
ma		There aren't any rules now, Jack. We can do what we like!
jack		Are you hurting?
jack		The door's ticking.
ma		That's right.
ma		Is that really necessary?
ma		OK. Thanks.  Try it, it's delicioso.
ma		Thanks for the offer but we're going to go home.
ma		 Nothing happened to Jack.
ma		But he's OK, right? DR. MITTAL The most important thing you did was to get him out while he's still plastic.
jack		 I'm not plastic.
ma		He says he's real, not plastic.
ma		Dad!
robert		My darling.
nancy		We couldn't wait any longer.
ma		Jack, Jack it's OK. This is your Grandma and Grandpa.
nancy		Hello, Jack.
nancy		 I kept everything.
ma		Leave them, Jack, you'll get used to them.
robert		You're here.
ma		So, what's in Michigan?
robert		I'm working out of the Grand Rapids office.
nancy		Oh, Sweetie... There have been a lot of changes in our lives since you've been gone. Your dad and I... losing you, was very hard on us. And he and I...
robert		We had to go our different ways. It was what we had to do.
ma		Whoa. This is not what I thought was happening.
nancy		Your father felt we had to accept that you were...
robert		People deal with things in their own way.
nancy		I knew you'd come home one day.
ma		Wow.
nancy		I'm so sorry, I didn't know how to tell you. They said we should talk to you together.
robert		The Doctor mentioned this other place where they could help you, because it's hard, you know, to suddenly -
ma		 He has no idea what we've been through. Nothing could compare to that.
nancy		Of course not.
robert		 Leo.
ma		OK, this is a lot of stuff.
nancy		Yes it is.
robert		Leo's a good guy. Your mother is much happier. It's a good thing.
ma		 What, Jack?
jack		It's too big here.
ma		It's OK.
jack		I want some.
robert		What .. what's he doing?
ma		Just wait a moment. We'll go inside in a moment.
nancy		It's OK.
ma		I need to go back now, anyway. There are things we need to do inside. Ma pulls Jack to his feet. Jack risks a look at his grandparents. Robert looks down, can't look Jack in the eye. Ma notices Jack has taken his shoes off. She starts to fuss with them, then gives up and lifts Jack into her arms to bring him inside.
news anchor		And now to developments in the case of the young woman, believed to be Joy Newsome,  who was rescued last night, along with her child, from a garden shed having allegedly been held captive there for over seven years. We are getting unconfirmed reports that an individual has just been arrested, after what one witness has called a 'short stand-off' at a house on the east side.
ma		I know, I'm watching it right now. I can't believe it. I just want to be home now.
ma		Wait, wait a second.
ma		I understand.
ma		Got it. DR. MITTAL If you need anything, if you just want to talk, you use it, alright?
ma		 Jesus.
resident agent		Ready for this?
ma		 Ready?
jack		Steady - go.
reporter 1		Joy! Joy! Any message for your well- wishers? What's it like to be home?
reporter 2		Jack! Jack! Look this way.
reporter 3		Jack! How do you like the world so far?
resident agent		You're doing great.
reporter 2		Joy! What do you say to your captor?
lawyer		At this time ... excuse me, please ... at this time I will read a brief statement from the family after which I would ask you to respect their privacy. I'm sure you can understand this is a very -
resident agent		The back of the property is well screened, and we've added to that where necessary, so if you keep these drapes closed you'll have complete privacy. We'll be right outside if there's anything at all you need.
nancy		Thank you. Thank you so much.
leo		Welcome home, honey. I'm very very happy to see you.
ma		Leo.
nancy		Jack, this is Leo.
leo		Hey there, sport.
nancy		People have been so kind. We won't use it all. Jack, would you like a drink?
ma		Jack, Grandma's asking if you'd like something to drink.
leo		Coming right up.
jack		 What are they for?
ma		They're from people saying they're happy that we're safe and back home.
jack		What people?
ma		Just people.
jack		Where's ice cream in the hammock?
ma		 Mom, what have you done with the hammock?
nancy		 I guess it must be in the basement.
ma		A dog?
nancy		Oh. It's Leo's dog, Seamus.
ma		You don't like dogs.
nancy		Oh no. I've come to love Seamus. He's won me over.
leo		He's on furlough at the moment, with a pal of mine out of town. Living the country life.
nancy		The hospital said to avoid pets, until your immunity is back up ... and there's so much to take in.
leo		I told him he was a health hazard. Gotta sling your hook, buddy. He didn't take it too well.
nancy		You OK?
robert		Lawyer says they are expecting a plea but can't rule out a trial. He wants to get into everything, I said it could wait.
nancy		Good.
robert		He thinks most of the press will move on in a couple days. I made it clear there'd be no more contact, statements. To respect the family.
leo		Can I get you a drink, Bob?
robert		Thank you, yes. I'd like that very much. Scotch... whatever you have.
leo		Sure.
nancy		 Is there anything you'd like, or like to do?
ma		Just rest.
nancy		Sure.
nancy		This is your Mom's room, Jack.
ma		Jack says that's where his `strong' is.
nancy		Ah ha.
ma		You didn't know I could play piano. Guess this tune...
jack		How long do we have to stay here?
ma		 We live here now.
jack		 Ice cream hurts.
leo		You got a brain freeze there, Jack?
ma		Eat it slower.
robert		I'm going to turn in.
ma		Is there something wrong?
robert		No.
ma		Why are you in such a hurry?
robert		It's been a long day.
ma		You haven't said one word to Jack.
nancy		Joy.
robert		We don't have to talk about this now.
nancy		My God.
ma		 Yes we do. Look at him.
nancy		Robert.
ma		Please.
robert		I can't, I can't... I'm sorry.
ma		He's my baby.
robert		What that bastard did to you.
leo		Come on, Bob. Let's all just give this a little time.
ma		Come on, Jack. Time for bed.
robert		 I'm so sorry. I shouldn't be here.
jack		 Where's Grandpa.
nancy		He had to go home for a while.
ma		 Hey Jack, you want play with your new toys?
lawyer		Thank you. Automatic door.
nancy		Yes.
lawyer		Let me take my shoes off here.
lawyer		The other thing we need to talk about is coming up with some kind of media strategy. I know you're not thinking about that right now. But there's a lot to decide about in that category.
nancy		I don't think we're ready for talking yet. Not like that.
lawyer		There are certain to be expenses going forward and a prime time interview, one prime time interview, means a lot of money. Donations are coming - and I'll need some account details, better in yours than mine, right? - but it wouldn't amount to enough for, you know, open ended support.
ma		Jack, you have all those colors. Why don't you use them. You could draw a picture of Jack the giant slayer, with every color.
leo		Thank you again.
leo		 Gee, am I hungry.
leo		Pretty good, right?
jack		You have a dog?
leo		I do. Named Seamus. He's very small. Not very smart. You'll have to meet him sometime. He'll shake your hand.
jack		I had a dog called Lucky. But he's not real.
leo		Yeah?
jack		In Room.
leo		You ever play catch, Jack?
leo		I hear what you're saying, but ...
neighbor boy		 Hey.
leo		 No kidding. It's a nice ball, isn't it?
neighbor boy		I got mine for my birthday.
leo		Fantastic. You hear that, Jack? He got this same ball for his birthday.
neighbor boy		Why's he wearing those glasses.
leo		He's got sore eyes.
neighbor boy		 Did you get that ball for your birthday? Jack shakes his head
jack		I got a truck but it broke and Ma got me a cake.
neighbor boy		A cake's not a present.
jack		Yes it is.
neighbor boy		That's weird. A cake's just something to eat. No way is it a present.
jack		Ma. Ma.
ma		 What, Jack?
jack		Is a cake a present?
ma		What? She turns away, deep in her own frustration.
ma		Leo, please don't ever take Jack outside again unless you know what you're doing. He can be seriously hurt by the sun.
leo		I'm so sorry. It was overcast.
ma		He has never had any UV. This is serious stuff, OK?
ma		Look at this. She shows him an old photo. Four girls in track uniforms.
jack		You?
ma		Me and Stacy Benton and Heather Noel and Laura Sullivan. That's how people did their hair. We were the relay team. I was the anchor. I was fast. We did track together.
jack		Real track?
ma		Real track. On a field. We were fast. Best in the district. You know what happened to them?
jack		No.
ma		Exactly. Nothing. They just lived and nothing happened. Look ...
jack		Show me more when you were young.
ma		No. I don't want to see any more. I don't want you to look at any more right now. Let's just be quiet for while. Okey dokey?
leo		Not at all, we'll all sleep better.
leo		That's right
lawyer		It's a good day.
nancy		Thank God.
jack		You were gone!
ma		Do you want to hear something really good?
jack		You were gone.
ma		Hey listen. Old Nick is going to jail for a really long time.
jack		I know Old Nick is in jail. MA But now he'll be there for ever and ever. And I don't have to see him ever again or talk to the judge or any of those scary things. Isn't that great?
jack		What are you doing?
ma		I'm talking to people.
jack		Why do you look like that?
ma		I'm dressed to go out, that's all.
jack		I don't like it.
ma		It's just some clothes and makeup.
ma		Come on, we need to get you ready.
nancy		Maybe it's too much for him right now.
ma		It's not too much for me. I need to go out, get some air.
nancy		You don't have to do it so soon. You could wait and we could go together.
ma		Oh my God!
laura		Oh my God!
ma		 I know. I know.
laura		I've missed you so much. I can't believe you're actually here. And look at Jack! What a sweetheart! He is so cute!
ma		This is too weird, sitting in this car right now.
laura		You are such an amazing person, Joy. I have thought about you so much. 
ma		I'm happy, too. And a little freaked out.
laura		You just sit back. Relax. We'll take it nice and slow.
laura		...Tracy is doing so good. She got her teaching certificate and now she's teaching in Milwaukie, loving it. I saw her last summer and she is still so fun.
ma		I always liked her even though we never really hung out.
laura		She liked you too.  Your Mom was very popular in school.
ma		That's actually not true.
laura		If you weren't popular, I don't know who was.
ma		Susan Torrey.
laura		That's true.
ma		Who was that?
laura		Just someone I met at work. Not serious.
ma		What work do you do.
laura		Real estate. I mean I graduated Environmental Studies and I'm still super passionate about that - like what we're doing to this planet, but the whole property thing is exploding.
ma		 Jack. This way. Just hold my hand.
jack		Ma, it's Dylan!
ma		You can't take that, Jack.
jack		Why?
ma		It doesn't belong to you.
jack		Ma! Ma!
ma		I'm here. OK? Just calm down.
jack		I was scared!
ma		 Don't be. This is normal. This is what people do.
jack		I don't like it!
ma		Remember your superpowers, alright, have fun. And no whining, OK?
clerk		Hi, there. Anything I can help you with?
ma		I need some... ... some shoes.
clerk		Great. Shoes are all over there. Just let me know if you need anything else, okay?
ma		I don't know.
jack		Can we get Dylan now?
ma		Please, Jack.
laura		These ones are kind of cute.
ma		No. I definitely don't want any of these. I'd never wear these.
jack		I want Dylan. You said.
ma		I said if you were good.
laura		I could run and get it for him.
ma		No. I said no, so he has to understand.
jack		No.
ma		Cinnabon is good. You might like it.
laura		I think we should just go.
jack		I want Dylan. I want Dylan now.You said.
ma		You are being really naughty Jack.
ma		Get the fuck away from him. Get the fuck away.
laura		Oh my God. Oh. My. God.
ma		Shit, shit, shit. Those assholes.
laura		Buckle up, Jack, all right?
jack		I... I...
ma		Jesus Christ. Just buckle it, all right?
jack		I don't like you in the world!
ma		Well maybe I don't like you either!
leo		Oh, you got me on that one.
nancy		You guys want to start again?
nancy		I'm sorry.
ma		Jack. Please turn that off. Jack keeps watching.
jack		I want to watch!
ma		Jack! Please. Please. I'm begging you, please turn that off.
ma		Look at all these toys. Most kids would love that stuff. You've barely even looked at them.
jack		I don't want to.
ma		Come on, Jack.
nancy		He's fine.
ma		I don't give him my phone so please don't give him yours.
nancy		OK.
ma		I just want him to connect to something. You know?
nancy		He's really doing fine.
ma		I'm sorry, I don't know what's happening to me. I can't feel anything. Even for ...
nancy		Joy, please.
ma		Don't judge me. You have no right. People walk around like the world is fine and normal but it's not.
nancy		You just need to rest.
ma		 No I don't! That's not what I need.
nancy		That's what the Doctor...
ma		 No! That's not what he said. You don't know what he said. That's confidential and you don't even know. Just forget it.
nancy		I feel like you're impossible to talk to right now.
ma		Oh, I'm sorry!
nancy		No, you're not sorry.
ma		You think you know what's in my head. Trust me, you couldn't handle it.
nancy		Tell me and see. I've asked you.
ma		So you're seeing that every time you look at me? Great.
nancy		You're my daughter, that's what I'll see.
ma		Yeah, well you seemed to get on OK without me.
nancy		How can you say that? You think you're the only one whose life was destroyed?
ma		Actually, that's exactly what I think.
nancy		How would you feel if somebody took Jack from you? MA                               LEO Shut up.                         Go easy.
ma		Don't you ever tell me how to look after my son. I'm sorry if I'm not `nice' enough for you. Maybe if you hadn't been in my head saying `be nice' that day I wouldn't have gone to help him.
nancy		I'm sorry, Jack.
ma		Come here, Jack.
nancy		Time for you to go upstairs, Jack. Remember what your Mom said.
hostess		You are an amazing, inspiring, courageous, beautiful young woman. 
ma		Thank you. Thank you so much. I hope they all know how much their thoughts and prayers have meant the last few weeks. To our whole family.
hostess		And Jack. Your son. By all accounts he is a normal, high-functioning, happy little boy. Amazing.
ma		He is. He's my life. I never could have survived without him.
hostess		You made life as normal and nurturing as you could given the environment. You gave him a childhood. How did you manage to do that?
ma		I... I didn't think about it. I didn't plan it. When I found out I was pregnant with Jack, it just seemed like a terrible joke. You know? To bring someone into that place, it just seemed so wrong. I was in a very scary frame of mind. I thought the devil was controlling my life. In a way he was.
hostess		Are you okay?
lawyer		 I'm getting the feeling my client needs to -
hostess		Just a minute, please.
ma		Then, everything was different once Jack came, because he was so beautiful and I had to keep him safe.
hostess		When he's older will you talk to him about his father.
ma		Jack's not his.
hostess		I beg your pardon, are you -
hostess		So true, in a very real sense, but the genetic relationship -
ma		In this whole story, that's the shocking detail?
hostess		Did it ever occur to you to ask your captor to take Jack away?
ma		Away?
hostess		To leave him outside a hospital, say, so he'd be found.
ma		Why would I -
ma		He had me.
jack		Ma?
leo		He's on. He's waiting.
jack		Ma?
jack		Come back.
jack		 Come back now.
neighbor		Been shopping.
nancy		Yes we have. We're making cupcakes. 109   INT. NANCY AND LEO'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - A LITTLE LATER    109
nancy		You know how to beat eggs, Jack?
jack		Sure. I did it before. In Room.
nancy		Did you? Wow. What else did you do there.
jack		Lots of things. I miss it sometimes.
nancy		Wasn't it awfully small.
nancy		OK.
jack		It was small in wardrobe.
nancy		What did you do in wardrobe?
jack		Sleep. When Old Nick came.
nancy		I know. She just needs to be on her own a little while.
leo		Jack, meet Seamus. Would you like to pet him?
jack		I could just go in and tell her about Seamus. Only for a minute. Or I could just look at her.
leo		Come on, let's get this guy some air after being all stuffed up in the car. 111   OMITTED   111 112   EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY                                     112
jack		Grandma.
nancy		Yes?
jack		I need the scissors.
nancy		What for?
jack		For cutting my hair.
nancy		You really want to do that?
jack		I want to send it to Ma.
nancy		Why?
jack		She needs my strong more than me. So I want to send it to her. Or you could take it to her.
nancy		I can help you if you'd like.
jack		That would be great.
nancy		Okay. Let's do this right. I've wanted to cut that hair a very long time.
nancy		I used to cut your mother's hair all the time. And your Grandpa's hair. I've still got it.
jack		You think this will work? Can my strong be her strong too? I'm not really sure if it works that way.
nancy		Of course it does. We all help each other stay strong. No one is strong alone. You and your mom, you help each other through, don't you?
jack		Yes.
nancy		And you and me. And you and Leo. And Leo and me. We all have the same strong.
jack		I guess we do.
nancy		Ok, here goes.
nancy		Now lean back.
jack		I love you, Grandma.
nancy		I love you, Jack. 116   INT. NANCY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY                         116
ma		I'm sorry, Jack.
jack		That's OK.
ma		I promise. JACK Are you better now?
ma		Starting to be.
jack		Can I...?
ma		Sorry. There's none left.
jack		OK.
ma		I'm not a good enough Ma.
jack		But you're Ma.
ma		I am.
jack		I'm going to play with Aaron now. He's my friend.
jack		We have so many things to do. Flying in an airplane.
ma		Definitely. Making new friends.
jack		Can we go back to Room?
officer parker		Follow me, guys.
jack		 Dylan!
jack		This isn't Room. Has it gotten shrinked? Our friends...
ma		Taken away for evidence.  Proof that we were here.
ma		What?
jack		It can't really be Room if Door's open.
ma		Do you - would you like it closed?
jack		Bye-bye.
ma		Jack -
jack		Bye-bye.  Say bye-bye to Room.
****Dialogues from script :Roommate.txt****

sara		Hi. Sara Matthews. She looks her up in the computer. She plays with a simple silver chain around her neck.
sara		Told you we'd make it. She steps back to the doorway. As she hauls her suitcase off the cart... BOOM! Another cart slams into hers. A box tumbles off the other cart.
girl		Sorry! Bad driver. Sara kneels to help the other girl -- cute, frizzy hair -- clean up the mess. A slew of clothes lie on the carpet. And peeking out from under them... a bottle of vodka. The girl smiles sheepishly.
girl		In case of emergency.
sara		Sara.
sara		Hey. Yeah, it's amazing here. I met this really cool biker? He's taking me to Mexico this weekend.
sara		Everything's great.
tracy		Psi U.'s throwing a bash. Let's go.
sara		Psi U.?
tracy		They're a frat. Beer... guys...
sara		I don't know... I might just hang and wait for my roommate. Groans all around. "Come on"... "Lame-O"... Sara bites her lip, considering. She smiles.
sara		Alright. Just let me change. The girls cheer.
bouncer		 If you want beer, I'll need ID's.
tracy		For a frat party?! Seriously? He holds up a handful of ugly lime-green wristbands. Kim steps around him.
kim		I don't drink anyway. Tracy looks at her, mouth agape.
bouncer		There's punch and non-alcoholic beer over there... He points to a table with a giant bowl and cups. No one is around it. Tracy tries to flirt with the bouncer.
tracy		Come on, just us. We won't tell. The bouncer is tempted but not budging.
bouncer		Honestly, I'm just a pledge. They'll kick me out. She stomps by him.
tracy		Wuss. Defeated, Tracy walks over to the table. Turns back to Sara.
tracy		You want something to drink?
sara		What's the point? Tracy huffs as Sara walks into A SEA OF KIDS. We're talking extreme fire hazard... extreme moral hazard. Sara moves through the crowd. Her clothes are low-wattage, but stylish. She's drawn to the music coming from a large room. A HIGH-ENERGY COLLEGE BAND on stage. They're not very good, but they don't care. Sara finds a spot along the wall and watches them. In particular -- THE DRUMMER. A cute goof, spastically whaling away. He's mouthing the lyrics, eyes closed. Really into it. Sara chuckles at the sight, not taking her eyes off him. He definitely stands out. Suddenly, a hand grabs her shoulder. Tracy pulls herself in with Kim close behind and they start dancing to the band. Juice spilling over the brim of her cup. Sara stays by the wall, afraid of getting any spilled on her.
tracy		 Why aren't you dancing?
sara		To this?
tracy		They're not that bad. Tracy pulls Sara deeper in the crowd. Now all three start jumping up and down to the music. Sara's getting into it as Tracy chugs her drink.
sara		Crap. Kim still dances as Sara starts to look around.
sara		Where's Tracy?
kim		She was getting more punch. Sara then spots Tracy, with a full cup, precariously climbing onto the stage next to the DJ's table with a bunch of other girls already dancing. She starts dancing suggestively, egging on the crowd.
sara		Uh oh. Guys yell out. "Show em." Several hands armed with camera phones stretch out above the crowd.
stephen		Damn! Sara's drenched as an enormous cheer erupts from the crowd. Camera phones clicking all at once. Sara looks up.
stephen		Oh. Woops.
stephen		Looks like my plan backfired. Sara turns back towards him.
sara		What plan?
stephen		To spill beer on you so I can start a conversation.
sara		You spilled beer on me purposely?
sara		I'll get over it. He laughs, making her smile.
sara		I'm not sure how she's so wasted. All she's had is punch. Stephen grins conspiratorially and grabs her hand.
stephen		Come on.
sara		It's pretty good. She drinks some more.
sara		It doesn't taste that strong.
stephen		Exactly. He takes a drink of his beer as Sara takes a long chug of hers.
stephen		Stephen. By the way.
sara		Sara.
sara		Hey, why do you get to drink beer?
stephen		Twenty-one.
sara		Old man.
stephen		Tell me about it. My back is killing me. They don't move for a moment, Sara's resting her back against his chest.
stephen		Besides, frat brothers don't have to wear those ugly wristbands.
sara		Ugh. You're in this frat? He jokingly untwirls her away and she bumps into people behind her. Sara laughs as she notices Kim, dancing, Holding up a cup of punch.
sara		What happened to Tracy? Kim shrugs.
kim		I'm the worst roommate ever. Kim goes back to dancing Sara looks a little worried which Stephen notices.
stephen		Do you want to look for your friend? Sara looks at him sweetly. Nods.
stephen		Guess that would be me. But then he stumbles, nearly dropping them both.
sara		Who's got you? Stephen looks at Tracy in one arm. The other arm around Sara's waist.
kim		Thanks Sara.
sara		No problem. They linger, smiling, checking out Stephen... They step into the elevator. Holding it for Sara.
kim		You want us to wait? Sara turns and glares at Kim. An obvious "NO!" Kim lets the doors close as Sara turns back to Stephen.
stephen		You know, I'm going to be pulling kitchen duty all week for helping girls leave a frat party. It's like opposite everything we stand for. Sara leans in and gives him a long kiss. Then separates, but her lips still very close to his.
saea		 Does that make it worth it?
stephen		Honestly, no. She laughs out loud.
sara		Do you want to come up?
stephen		Keep it... till next time.
sara		Thanks again. For everything.
sara		Ow! She reaches her bed and plops down on her back. Breathing hard. Clenching her eyes shut. The room is spinning. She may puke at any second. She struggles to sit up. She fumbles for the lamp next to her bed, almost knocking it over. She hits the switch, revealing: The other bed. Sara screams.
girl		Hi. FLASH. The girl takes her picture, further blinding and disorienting Sara.
sara		Who are you?!
girl		Rebecca. Your roommate. Sara calms, catching on.
sara		What are you doing?
rebecca		Taking your picture.
sara		Why? Rebecca shrugs. Sara grabs her stomach.
sara		Oh shit. Her cheeks chipmunk as she rushes out the door. Rebecca smiles.
rebecca		Hey Sara. Sara stares at her blankly. Who is this girl? What happened last night? Rebecca smiles.
rebecca		We met last night.
sara		Right...  Starts with a... "T"?
rebecca		Close. Rebecca. She hands Sara a glass of water and two aspirin.
rebecca		Come on. It'll help, trust me. Sara washes down the aspirin.
sara		Thanks. Rebecca smiles, genuinely touched.
sara		Did you do those? Rebecca nods.
sara		They're really cool.
rebecca		I just like capturing my moods. A beat. Sara closes her eyes. Bits and pieces of the night before are coming back to her now.
sara		Rebecca -- did you take my picture last night?
sara		It's too damn early for me.
rebecca		It's three in the afternoon. Sara's eyes bug out.
sara		Holy shit!
girl		So what do we do? Sara looks her over. Checks out her outfit.
sara		Nice bag. Dior?
sara		I'm on financial aid.
sara		I told you not to do this.
sara		You're just making it harder.
rebecca		That didn't sound good. Boyfriend?
sara		Ex. Off Rebecca's confused look.
sara		It's complicated. A beat. Rebecca's warm smile makes Sara want to open up. They walk along the stacks of books.
sara		We dated since tenth grade and were supposed to go to college together.
rebecca		No?! He took it?  What an asshole.
sara		Yep.
rebecca		Do you miss him?
sara		Sometimes I think I do.
rebecca		It's hard to let go.
sara		Oh my God.
rebecca		What?
sara		I am so jealous.
rebecca		I know... I've got a lot of clothes. Mind if I put some on your side?
sara		No problem.
rebecca		Borrow anything you want. Really. I haven't worn half of them. Sara reverently fingers through them. Chloe. De La Renta. Alexander McQueen. Jimmy Choo shoes. A Miu Miu handbag. Some still carry their price tags.
sara		Jesus, some of these I've only ever seen in Vogue.
rebecca		My parents idea of bonding is to turn me loose in Beverly Hills with a Platinum card.
sara		Oh, you here?
rebecca		Pasadena. Off Sara's confused look.
sara		That's cool. You can go home on weekends. Free laundry. Free meals.
rebecca		Not gonna happen. Sara gives her a puzzled stare.
rebecca		It's a long story.. .Let's just say nothing's free in my house. She wants to know more... but it's too soon to pry. She nods at Rebecca's drawing pad.
sara		Can I take a look? She walks over. Rebecca clutches the pad to her chest.
rebecca		No. Sara stops dead in her tracks. Rebecca realizes that came across pretty harsh.
rebecca		Not till it's done. Nothing personal. It's just my... process.
rebecca		I thought you were a design major. Why are you taking Calc and psychology? The girls get up with their trays.
sara		 And they're requirements.
sara		Hey. Tracy... Kim... this is my roommate, Rebecca. She turns, but Rebecca is standing at a distance. Sara waves her over. Rebecca comes, reluctantly. She flashes a small wave.
rebecca		Hi.
tracy		RRRRRREBECCA. How formal. What can we call you?
kim		How 'bout Reba? Tracy sticks her finger down her throat. Gag me.
sara		I like Becca. Tracy's grimace vetoes that one, too.
tracy		How 'bout Becky?
sara		Becky's good. The girls all turn to Rebecca for approval.
rebecca		I like Rebecca. Buzzkill.
professor roberts		So... here we are. Design 101. And each one of you is asking yourself the same question...  Who is this guy? Why should I turn off my Blackberry and pay attention to him? Mild laughter from the class.
professor roberts		I'll tell you why -- because I hold the keys to the kingdom. Think of your favorite designers. Marc Jacobs. Vera Wang. Rick Owens. Magicians, right? I've got news for you: All of their magic stems from the same source: the fundamental principles of design.
professor roberts		The journey to the catwalks of New York... Paris... Tokyo... starts right here, in this room. And all you have to do is open your minds. Man, she wants in.
sara		Professor Roberts? He flashes a disarming smile.
sara		I'm sorry to bother you, it's just...
professor roberts		I'm afraid we're full. But don't worry -- Intro Design has three other sections.
sara		But you're not teaching them. I want to learn from the best. He smiles at her.
professor roberts		What's your name?
sara		Sara Matthews.
professor roberts		Tell me, Sara -- why should I sign your request form when I've turned down a dozen others? Would that be fair? Sara's face falls. A long beat.
sara		No, I guess it wouldn't. Thanks anyway. She walks toward the door. Roberts' eyes go to her ass.
professor roberts		But...
professor roberts		Style. And Desire. He smiles, signs the form and hands it to Sara. Sara clutches the form to her chest, smiling.
sara		Hey. Rebecca removes her earbud.
sara		What's your Facebook page? I'll add you as a friend.
rebecca		I don't have a Facebook page.
sara		Myspace?
rebecca		Nope. I don't spend a lot of time
sara		Come here. Rebecca walks over and looks at the computer over Sara's shoulder.
rebecca		Who's she?
sara		Irene. She graduated from the Art Institute out here last year.
sara		A design apprentice for Marc Jacobs. Hey, check out these posts. Sara scrolls down Irene's recent posts: "Paris was amazing"... "Milan in the Fall"... "Off to Barcelona"... etc.
sara		I mean.. .who doesn't have a Facebook page?! Rebecca laughs.
rebecca		Okay, okay. I'll get one. Tracy knocks on the partially open front door... and marches right in.
tracy		Cancel those library plans. Guess who made the guest list at Rebar?
sara		Of course.
rebecca		I don't.
tracy		Yes you do. Thanks to my badass self.
rebecca		I'll pass. Clubs really aren't my scene. Tracy stands there, hung out to dry, the ID in her hand.
tracy		How great is this? No parents. No curfews.
sara		No shit! They clink their empty glasses in a toast.
sara		Can I? She puts her wallet and cell phone into Tracy's purse.
tracy		Too bad Rebecca blew us off. Talk about the life of the party.
sara		Don't be mean.
tracy		I'm just saying.
sara		She's just a little hard to get to know.
tracy		Yeah right...
sara		What do you think?
tracy		I think... Tracy raises her shot glass. She and Sara clink and drink. Tracy waves at the suits again. Thanks guys.
tracy		We can do better. She takes Sara's hand and pulls her out onto the dance floor.
sara		Tracy?
rebecca		Hello?
rebecca		Yes. She smiles.
rebecca		I'm fine. Just in a hurry. She keeps pumping. Speeding it up. Rick ambles up to her, treading beyond appropriate personal space. He points to the "Full Service" sign.
rick		Just doing my job. She stands her ground as he places his hand over hers on the gas pump and squeezes. She looks down at his hand on top of hers. Then lets go of the pump, nudging his hand away.
rebecca		All done. She pulls the nozzle out of the tank and tries to place it back at the pump. He stops her. Motions to her face.
rick		You have a little something. No, she doesn't. He, ever so gently, rubs his index finger and thumb on her cheek to remove the imaginary smudge until he lurches back.
rebecca		Sorry. But she does it again, holding the lever down, dousing him head to toe. He scrambles backward out of range.
rick		You spoiled c--- He spots the lighter in her hand. Dead stop. She absentmindedly flicks it. It sparks but doesn't light.
rebecca		Pussy. She gets into her car and drives off. Leaving Rick soaked in gasoline.
sara		Nice car.
rebecca		Thanks.
sara		No idea, I couldn't find her. Rebecca sits down, dropping her purse and keys on the table.
rebecca		As long as I'm here... you hungry?
sara		Starved. Sara smiles gratefully. Rebecca opens the menu.
rebecca		I can't believe she ran out on you.
sara		I know. Thanks for coming. Rebecca looks up from the menu.
rebecca		Tracy had her shot tonight. Tomorrow you're all mine. I'll show you the big city.. .the right way. And I promise I won't abandon you. Deal? Sara smiles.
sara		Deal.
rebecca		These are the modern pieces. A little wilder than the old stuff. She's a savvy tour guide, confident, at ease. She doesn't just walk past pieces -- she studies them. Sara's impressed. Sara's cell phone buzzes. She checks the display: "Jason". She tilts it so that Rebecca can see and rolls her eyes. She buries her cell phone in her purse. Sara spots a bizarre metal structure and walks over to it.
sara		Okay, I have no idea what this is supposed to be.
rebecca		This is my favorite. Sara steps closer to examine it. Rebecca stays behind her.
rebecca		I love how he captures her personality through her eyes. It's like she really wants to help you. Rebecca's hands tug anxiously at her shirt. She really wants Sara to like this painting. Sara moves even closer. She squints, trying to see what Rebecca sees. The woman's expression in the painting is actually pretty sinister. Sara's a little freaked out... but she turns to see Rebecca's hopeful expression. Sara brightens.
sara		Amazing. I love it.
sara		That is so cool.
rebecca		No graffiti in Des Moines?
sara		Sure. "Bobby loves Jenny. Chrissy loves Rick." Nothing like this. Rebecca pulls out her camera.
rebecca		Hey, smile. Sara poses... but now grabs Rebecca and pulls her in.
sara		Both of us.
rebecca		Now that's one "art form" I don't get. Needles into skin? No thanks.
sara		I have a tattoo. Rebecca smiles. Yeah, right. But she can see in Sara's eyes that she's serious.
rebecca		Really? Sara pulls down her shirt and sweater a bit to reveal, over her heart, a simple tattoo: "Emily".
sara		My older sister. She died when I was nine.
rebecca		Oh, I'm sorry.
sara		 This keeps her with me.
rebecca		I always wanted a sister. Sara smiles and interlocks her arm with Rebecca's as they walk down the street.
sara		Guess who I'm listing as my favorite artist on my Facebook page?
sara		Don't laugh. It's about a small town girl making it in the big city.
rebecca		Isn't every movie?! They both laugh.
sara		Hey there.
sara		Look at you. She kneels and pets it. The kitten purrs.
sara		No collar, baby? Sara glances around to see if anyone is watching.
rebecca		I thought you'd like it. Rebecca sees the moving bulge under Sara's jacket. She cuts Sara a look. Sara sighs. Apprehensively, she unzips her jacket and the kitten pops out. Rebecca sits up. The kitten jumps over to her bed. She pets it.
rebecca		Sara...
sara		I know, I know. It's stupid, and I've just broken about forty different dorm rules, and I should just take it to a shelter...
sara		Really?
rebecca		It'll be our secret. Just between us. Rebecca keeps petting the kitten. Getting more attached.
sara		I named her in the elevator. Cuddles. She smiles and scoops her up. Suddenly, her smile vanishes.
sara		Is that my necklace? Rebecca touches it. She'd forgotten she still had it on.
rebecca		Sorry. I was just trying it on. Sara puts down the kitten and walks to Rebecca, who quickly takes it off. Sara takes it back, annoyed. She rubs it protectively.
sara		This was my sister's.
rebecca		Oh. Sara looks at it a moment longer. She looks at Rebecca.
sara		You can borrow anything of mine. Except for this. Okay? It's the only thing I kept of hers. Rebecca nods. Sara sits down on the bed next to her.
rebecca		I'm really sorry.
sara		It's okay. You didn't know.
rebecca		Were you two close?
sara		Yeah. You're the first roommate I've had since she died. So, it feels a little odd.
rebecca		In a good way or a bad way? Sara smiles.
sara		A good way.
stephen		This seems like a pattern. Sara smiles. She's psyched to see him, in spite of the havoc. She leans in and speaks quietly.
sara		Just because I kissed you doesn't mean I'll let you cut in line.
stephen		So what does it mean?
stephen		Hey, the gentlemen of Psi Upsilon are reviving a sacred tradition tonight. Sara stares at him blankly. He smiles.
stephen		We're having another keg party.
sara		I.. dunno. I'm still having flashbacks from the last one. Sara laughs.
stephen		You know what? How about if I use you as my excuse not to go. Sara smiles, bits of smoothie dripping from her apron.
tracy		Hey. Sara thinks about ignoring her but stops. Her tone is cold.
sara		Hey.
tracy		Psi U. tonight?
sara		So you can ditch me again?
tracy		Sara... the guy had a Porsche. And a hot tub.
sara		That's your apology? Tracy jumps up and walks over.
tracy		What I meant to say is -- I'm sorry -- I totally screwed up. Down the hall, we see Rebecca open her door and peek out. She watches Tracy and Sara. Tracy gives Sara sad, puppy dog eyes. Sara laughs.
sara		I forgive you. Tracy gives her a big, exaggerated hug. Over Sara's shoulder, she spots Rebecca looking at them. Tracy flashes a big smile. Relief at making up with Sara. But that's not how Rebecca takes it.
sara		But you're on your own at Psi U. Because...
sara		You look... nice.
sara		Actually, I... sort of have a date?
sara		You know, I could reschedule.
rebecca		 You don't have to.
sara		I want to. On one condition... Sara pulls a cute jacket from her closet and puts it on Rebecca. They both look at Rebecca in the mirror. Wow. Rebecca smiles.
rebecca		I love it, who's the designer?
sara		What are you, a label whore?! Who cares ...I got it at a flea market and it looks great with the dress. Rebecca nods in agreement.
sara		It just needs one last touch... She grabs a pair of small, gold hoop earrings from her dresser. She places them in Rebecca's hand.
sara		I'm gonna jump in the shower, then we'll head out. She grabs her stuff and hurries out the door. Rebecca eyes the earrings in her palm. She turns towards the full-length mirror behind the door. As she leans into the mirror, we see that her ears aren't pierced. She takes one of the earrings and touches the pin against the skin of her right lobe. After a moment of hesitation... SHE PUSHES THE PIN IN HARD. A small pop. She flinches. Blood trickles down her ear onto her neck. She wipes it off with her thumb and touches the other hoop to her left ear.
tracy		Water. I need water. She stumbles to the mini-fridge and looks in: Empty. She groans. She grabs an empty cup... opens her door... And lets out a sharp little scream.
tracy		Rebecca? What are you doing? Rebecca cocks her head at Tracy, as if she's trying to comprehend her. A beat. She stands... and walks to her. Tracy takes a step back, shaken by Rebecca's calm, morose demeanor. Rebecca stares right into her eyes. She makes a slight move towards Tracy, who flinches. Rebecca turns and walks down to her room. At her door, she turns and smiles. She disappears into her room. Tracy stands there, spooked.
sara		Hey. How was the party? Are you still the beer bong queen? But Tracy's in no mood to joke. She pulls Sara to a stop.
tracy		Listen... something is up with your roommate.
sara		What do you mean?
tracy		She was outside my room this morning.
sara		Doing what?
tracy		Waiting for me. I opened my door... and there she was. Just sitting there, staring. Like some psycho.
sara		Are you sure?
tracy		You don't believe me?
sara		No, it's just... why would she do that?
tracy		Why don't you ask her? I've gotta go...I'll see ya later. Tracy stops and watches Sara as she continues on. Tracy turns to go the other way, but before she leaves her eyes catch Rebecca standing in front of a nearby building. Rebecca stares at Tracy much like she did in the hallway. Tracy leaves in a hurry.
professor roberts		Contrary to popular opinion, beauty is not in the eye of the beholder. It's in the hands of the designer. Sara listens intently, soaking it all in. Her cell buzzes with a text message. She discreetly takes a look.
professor roberts		Who can tell me the difference between fashion and style? FROM IRENE: "4th & ford. be there now." Sara smiles at the message. Professor Roberts notices Sara looking at her cell phone and calls on her.
professor roberts		Miss Matthews? Without missing a beat, Sara replies.
sara		Fashion's something you can buy, but style you either have or you don't.
professor roberts		Exactly. All the money in the world can't buy you style.
sara		But it can buy you a good stylist. The class chuckles. Professor Roberts smiles.
sara		Hey. How'd you know when my class got out? Rebecca shrugs, playing it off.
rebecca		I'm your roommate. Sara smiles and grabs a cup.
sara		Thanks.
sara		Listen... Tracy told me something kinda weird. She says you... scared her this morning. Rebecca stops and looks at Sara. She starts laughing.
rebecca		What?
sara		Yeah.
rebecca		It's more like she scared me. She was racing to the bathroom like she was gonna hurl. She almost knocked me over. A beat as Sara ponders it all. She smiles.
sara		The girl does like to party. Anyway, I wouldn't worry about it. Rebecca takes a victory sip as Sara gets another text from Irene: "where r u?!?!?!"
sara		I gotta go meet Irene.  Thanks for the coffee. Rebecca watches her walk off. She takes another sip.
irene		 Finally. She gets up to hug Sara. Nearly tearing the dress.
sara		I so want to be you when I grow up.
irene		Hell, I wanna be me when I grow up.
irene		You know, your dad left me four messages last week. Making sure I'm looking out for his baby.
sara		Oh god. I hope you told him I'm closing down the library every night.
irene		I told him I haven't seen you. And that for all I know you're a crack ho by now. Even the model laughs.
sara		Perfect.
stephen		I haven't seen you around too much since you blew me off for dinner.
sara		Sorry again. Actually, how about dinner tonight?
stephen		Hellllo. I'm studying. She takes his book. He's on page two.
sara		Page two? Busted!
stephen		Yeah, but it's really dense. Off Sara's smile.
kim		How's it goin?
tracy		Hey. Tracy, wearing just a towel, and brushing her teeth as she walks, steps into the bathroom.
tracy		You have to be kidding me. Hey! The only light is some distorted moonlight through the window. Tracy steps out of the shower, grabbing her towel. Just as she starts to feel her way along the wall... The lights come back on. She sighs happily... sheds her towel... and steps back under the steaming water. A beat. The lights go off again.
tracy		Goddammit ! She turns off the shower. A beat of silence, but now... one of the other showers turns on. What the hell?
tracy		Hey, how about turning on the light?
tracy		Who's out there? Tracy, back in her towel, nervous now, feels her way along the wall again. She turns on the lights. The curtains are drawn in front of both running showers. Tracy stares at them. A beat.
tracy		I know it's you. She walks over to the shower. A beat. She rips away one curtain. Nothing behind it but the running shower. She turns it off. She stares at the other curtain.
tracy		Sara thinks you're weird. She told me. She pulls back the other curtain... nothing. She turns off that shower, too. But she can still hear running water. She looks back. The curtain from her own shower is closed again. The sound of running water behind it. She walks over.
tracy		Not funny, Rebecca.  Bitch. She grips the curtain. She steels herself. She yanks the curtain open to see... Just running water. Tracy shakes her head. She looks around -- no one. She slips her towel off and slips back under the water. Screw Rebecca -- she's going to finish this shower.
tracy		Freak. Just as the warm water starts to relax her... THE SHOWER CURTAIN CRASHES OVER HER, pile-driven by Rebecca. The curtain comes right off the rings. Tracy is slammed against the shower wall. She hits the floor hard, with Rebecca on top of her. Water pelting them both.
rebecca		So Sara thinks I'm weird? Let me tell you what I think. I think you're a little whore, and a bad influence on her. And I think that if you tell anyone about... what I'm about to do... you'll regret it. Rebecca, one hand still on Tracy's mouth, slides her other hand beneath the shower curtain. Tracy's eyes widen further. Rebecca finds what she's looking for... gets the grip she needs... and violently jerks her hand out of the curtain. A muffled scream from Tracy. Tears stream down her face. Rebecca stands. As Tracy sobs quietly on the shower floor, Rebecca looks down at... The bloody ring in her hand.
rebecca		Nice belly ring. She tosses it to Tracy... and walks away.
stephen		I'm going to flunk my test tomorrow, thanks to you.
sara		Then let's make sure it was worth it. She gives him a slow, lingering kiss.
stephen		Duh, joke's on you. I was going to flunk anyway. She smiles.
stephen		Thanks for helping me... not study.
sara		Anytime. He kisses her. Sweet and tender. Until... Sara sees Rebecca. Standing just five feet away. Staring at them.
rebecca		Where were you?
sara		Oh, hi.
rebecca		I kept calling and calling.
sara		Oh. I turned my cell off at the library and forgot to turn it back on.
rebecca		I'm going to bed now. I'm glad you're okay. She walks out of the lounge. A beat. That was awkward. Sara bites her lip, as if to say: "What can you do?"
stephen		You got a curfew?
sara		Well, she's right...I shoulda called. He smiles -- no big deal. He kisses her and steps into the elevator. They look at each other, waiting for the ancient doors to close. Stephen steps forward and sneaks in one more kiss. The doors close. Sara smiles; what a night. She glances down toward her door and sighs.
sara		I guess I'll see you later.
rebecca		Sara...
sara		You don't need to worry about me. I can take care of myself. Okay? Rebecca slowly nods.
rebecca		Sara. We're good, right? A beat. Sara nods and smiles.
sara		I'm already her best friend?
stephen		That's a little sad.
sara		Stop. But the look on her face says she agrees.
stephen		Maybe she REALLY likes you...if you know what I mean. She looks at him quizzically.
sara		I don't. He just looks at her, raising his eyebrows suggestively.
rebecca		Stephen. Stephen stops dead. Did he hear something? Guess not. He keeps going, scanning the book numbers again.
stephen		Shit, wrong aisle. He doubles back, and turns into Rebecca's aisle. But it's... EMPTY. We hear a door close in the distance.
stephen		Should we head back home? They walk by a small playground comprised of the slide, jungle gym, etc.
sara		The question is "whose home?"
stephen		Hmmm...
sara		I'll make you a bet. I go back to your place or you take me home to my twin bed and roommate.
stephen		What's the bet? She eyes the jungle gym.
stephen		This is kind of a stupid bet.
sara		Why'd you agree?
stephen		Apparently, I'm kind of a stupid guy.
sara		Making me laugh isn't going to help you. They stare each other down. She's stifling a laugh, much more in control as Stephen is straining.
stephen		So. She seductively walks back towards him. Takes his hand.
sara		So...let's go back to your place. She gives him a seductive grin.
rebecca		Mmmm?
rebecca		I want you, Jason.
rebecca		I miss touching you. Do you miss touching me?
rebecca		Prove it.
stephen		Just give me thirty seconds.
sara		You're kidding.
stephen		Almost there.
stephen		Yeah, right. He's not quite buying it... but he's cleaning faster.
stephen		You know I don't believe you.
stephen		I'm just going to put your clothes back on and make you strip again.
sara		Who do we have here? Hey guys! Let me ask you. Bra or panties? Bra? Okay, okay. Just calm down. The door swings open. Stephen stands in front of her, grinning.
stephen		I knew you didn't have the guts. She flicks her bra at his face. He catches it, shocked. He tosses it aside and yanks her into the room. The door slams shut behind them.
rebecca		Say my name, Jason. Until I tell you to stop. She puts the phone on speaker and lays it on the pillow beside her. Both her hands ease back under the covers.
stephen		Sara...
rebecca		Don't ever call me again. She kills the call. And now deletes it from the phone log.
rebecca		Well, good morning.
sara		Hey. Sorry I didn't call. I forgot my phone.
rebecca		No problem. Sara opens her desk drawer and grabs her phone. She quickly checks. No calls. Rebecca looks Sara over and smiles.
rebecca		Come on...don't I get any details??
sara		You want to go get some breakfa-- Before she can finish, Cuddles bolts out the door and down the hallway.
sara		Oh no. Sara chases after her as Rebecca gets up from her bed.
sara		Maybe...
sara		Yes. Sara walks back to her room. Rebecca stands in the doorway. They exchange despondent looks. Screwed.
irene		What took you so long?
sara		I walked.
irene		You didn't!
sara		It's ten bucks for a cab and I'm a student.
irene		Sara! You can't just walk around downtown L.A. at night. This is not Des Moines.
sara		Duh?
irene		Seriously, listen to me. That's why I own a gun. Sara's shocked.
sara		What?!
irene		Absolutely! Big cities are crawling with crazies. Sara moves into the apartment. Her phone rings. She answers.
sara		Hey. Oh, Hi. Yeah, I'm over at Irene's. I meant to leave you a note. Uh huh, uh huh, oh! That's a good idea. Let me check, hold on. Sara covers the phone and turns to Irene.
irene		Yeah, why?
sara		We have to get rid of one.
irene		Can't. Travel too much. Poor thing would starve to death.
sara		You're right.  No, she can't. Huh? Oh I don't know... whenever I get there. Bye.
irene		Who was that?
sara		My roommate. More than a little overprotective.
irene		That's no fun.
sara		So, where is it?
irene		What?
sara		You said you had a surprise for me?
irene		Oh yeah. I went through my closet. There's nothing here I've worn in the past six months. Irene walks toward the couch where there's a pile of clothes.
sara		You're kidding, all of these?! Oh no.
irene		What ...what?
sara		We have no closet space at the dorms. Rebecca's already using half of mine.
irene		Oh my God, I just had the best idea.
sara		What?
irene		Why don't you move in here with me?
sara		Seriously?
irene		Yeah, I'm never here. The place is huge. Ditch the roommate. And, the building allows pets.
sara		Huh. Let me talk to Rebecca about it.
irene		Great.
sara		We broke up.
irene		Yeah ...he sucked.
rebecca		Hey. What're those?
sara		Irene gave them to me. She had a lot more but we don't have the room.
rebecca		Too bad she couldn't take Cuddles, huh?
sara		Well, maybe that's not a problem.
rebecca		Really?
sara		Yeah. She actually suggested that I move in with her.
rebecca		What?
sara		No, of course not. I love living here... with you. Sara smiles as she sits down next to Rebecca, trying to put a bright spin on things.
sara		Look, I'd still technically be living here. So you wouldn't have to get a new roommate. Her place is huge and it's not like you couldn't use the extra closet space. I'd just move some of my stuff over, and spend a few nights a week there. We'd both have a lot more space.
rebecca		I don't want more space. I want... She checks herself. A beat of awkward silence.
sara		Nothing's set in stone. It's just something to think about. Plus we'd be able to keep Cuddles. As Sara hangs more new clothes in her closet, Rebecca stares across the room at... Cuddles.
sara		Tracy! Tracy slows for a split-second, then keeps walking. As if she didn't hear anything. Sara hurries to catch up with her.
sara		Tracy... hey.
tracy		Oh, hey. Tracy smiles, but weakly. The girl's lost all her sparkle. Her eyes dart around nervously, like a bird's.
sara		I heard you changed dorms.
tracy		Yeah, Conrad Hall. Seemed like a better vibe.
sara		Well, we should get together. Like grab a bite or something. Right?
sara		Hi. Rebecca starts to walk over to Tracy and Sara.
sara		Tracy?!
rebecca		What was that about?
sara		I don't know. She just walked away.
rebecca		Well, she's always been a flake.
sara		Well, actually, I was thinking I'd do Thanksgiving here and see you guys for Christmas. She listens, her face telling us that she doesn't like what she's hearing.
sara		Ya know what, I'm at work, and I'm really getting slammed... There isn't another customer in sight.
sara		I'll call you later, okay? Tell Dad I said hello. Bye. She hangs up the phone and sighs.
rebecca		Looks like it's just you and me tonight.
sara		Hey, what's wrong? Rebecca looks up at her, eyes red. Ashamed.
rebecca		Cuddles got out.
sara		Oh no. In the dorm?
rebecca		Outside.
sara		What?!
rebecca		I was doing laundry... I took her with me... She jumped out of the bag and ran outside. I went after her, but...
sara		Maybe she'll come back.
sara		I'm going to go find her.
rebecca		Do you want me to help? But Sara's already gone, slamming the door behind her.
sara		Maybe it's... just karma or something. We weren't allowed to keep her anyway.
rebecca		You're not mad at me?
sara		It was an accident.
rebecca		Is something else wrong? A beat as Sara decides whether to confide.
sara		My parents really want me to come home for Thanksgiving.
rebecca		You don't want to go?
sara		It's not exactly the most festive holiday in the Matthews household.
sara		I know I should be there with them, but it's like there's a ghost at the table.
rebecca		You can come with me.
rebecca		Yeah, spend Thanksgiving at my house.
sara		Your folks wouldn't mind?
sara		Okay, we'll see. Thanks.
professor roberts		Your midterm designs are due Friday. Remember, class: Simplicity. Who founded our industry? Eve -- when she handed Adam that fig leaf. Students laugh on their way out the door. As Sara walks past Roberts...
professor roberts		Sara. Could I see you in my office, please?
professor roberts		I don't think I need to tell you how impressed I've been with your work.
sara		I'm not sure I understand. Are you saying what I think you're saying?
professor roberts		I'm saying you have a shot. You'd have to earn it, Sara.
sara		Of course. I'll do... anything. Roberts stands and walks to the window. He looks out at the quad... and now turns back to Sara.
professor roberts		I'd like to see more danger in your work. Your designs are always crisp; they're always clear. But they're a little... safe. That stung. Sara can't keep the red from rising in her face. Roberts walks over to her.
professor roberts		Don't be afraid to go to some of the... He delicately taps her temple.
sara		Okay... He squats beside her, his hand on her shoulder now. He looks into her eyes.
professor roberts		The best designers push the boundaries of what's... acceptable. They take chances. Do you like to take chances, Sara?
sara		Sometimes.
professor roberts		So do I. He kisses her. Sara pushes him away, jumping out of her chair. She stands in front of him, shaking.
sara		I can't believe you just did that.
professor roberts		I took a chance, that's all. With a student that I trust.
sara		I better go. Sara grabs her books. As she heads for the door...
professor roberts		Paris, Sara. Fashion Week. Don't blow the chance of a lifetime. She hurries out of the office.
rebecca		What's wrong?
sara		My design professor just kissed me. Rebecca turns very serious. She gets up and sits down next to Sara.
rebecca		Are you alright? Sara nods.
sara		Yeah, it just really creeped me out. And I think the asshole's married.
rebecca		Professor Roberts?
professor roberts		That's right.
rebecca		I'm glad I caught you.
professor roberts		Actually, I was just... But Rebecca steps past him into the office, her heels snapping on the worn hardwood floor.
professor roberts		You're not one of my students.
rebecca		Not yet. That's why I'm here.
rebecca		I'm failing Intro Pysch.
professor roberts		And why is that?
rebecca		Because I'm bored. I thought it would be all about Freud, and deep dark secrets. But it's brain chemistry. Synapses. I can't stay awake in class.
professor roberts		I'm sorry to hear that. But I'm not sure what I can do to help.
rebecca		Tomorrow's the last day to drop a course without penalty. Unless I can add another one in its place, I'll fall way behind in credits. Daddy won't take that very well. He might even pull the plug. Which means...
professor roberts		Look, I've always made it a policy not to accept any students this late in the term.
rebecca		Do I look like just any student to you? She smiles... and eases up onto his desk. Facing him. Pretty feet dangling, ankles locked. Jesus. She eases her purse off her shoulder and onto the desk. She sees the framed picture of a WOMAN AND TWO KIDS. She picks it up.
rebecca		Your wife is very pretty.
professor roberts		Ex-wife . The game is on now. Roberts slowly walks around the desk, until he's behind Rebecca. In the picture frame's reflection, Rebecca sees him slip off his wedding ring. He palms it.
professor roberts		A few things I'd need to know.
rebecca		Ask me anything. He's circling the desk now. Predator and prey.
professor roberts		Do you have any design experience?
rebecca		None.
professor roberts		What do you know about clothes?
rebecca		Only one thing.
professor roberts		And what's that?
rebecca		I definitely look better out of them than in them. What an answer. Roberts stops in front of her. He moves in close, between her parting legs. He looks into her eyes. Still steady.
professor roberts		I think we might be able to work something out.
rebecca		Great. Just tell me and I'll do anything.
professor roberts		Kiss me.
rebecca		Ow! You're hurting me! Professor, stop!... Roberts stares at her in shock. He's not even touching her. What's going on? Rebecca smiles again. This girl is whacked. But damn, Roberts wants her. And her eyes are inviting him back. As he presses in to kiss her again... She rockets a knee into his groin and he crumples to the floor, gasping for air. He drops his wedding ring, which rolls away across the floor. Rebecca steps to the desk, where her purse sits open. We can see the Walkman inside. She takes it out. Smiles at him.
rebecca		Birthday gift. You should get one, they're great. She slips on the earbuds... plays with the Walkman for a few seconds... and now hits the play button. We hear their prior conversation, played back.
walkman		Great. Just tell me and I'll do anything.
professor roberts		You bitch tease!
rebecca		Oh, I'm not teasing. She starts to circle him now, as he writhes in pain on the floor.
rebecca		Do you see enough danger in me now, Professor? Did I go to a dark enough place for you? He recognizes his own words to Sara.
professor roberts		What? How did?... Who are you? He lunges at her ankle. She steps out of his grasp... and slams the sharp spike of her heel down on his hand. He yells again.
rebecca		She trusted you. She walks toward the door.
professor roberts		Please don't do this. Twenty years. Everything I worked for. I'll pay for that tape. Rebecca stops at the door. She kneels, picks up his wedding ring, and rolls it across the floor to him.
rebecca		Yes you will. She walks out the door.
stephen		Anything wrong? Sara is taken out of her own world
sara		What?
stephen		Are you ok?
sara		Yeah, sure.
woman		Welcome. I'm Professor Jacobs. I'll be taking over the class for the rest of the semester. Sara can't believe it. She takes a seat and turns to the STUDENT next to her.
sara		Remember what I told you about Professor Roberts?
rebecca		Yeah?
sara		He's gone.
rebecca		What do you mean?
sara		Well, they're calling it a leave of absence. But what I heard... someone sent the dean an anonymous recording of him hitting on another student.
rebecca		Oh My God.
sara		I know.
rebecca		That's called Karma.
stephen		I've made a decision. You ready?
sara		Lemme hear it.
stephen		I'm gonna quit the band.
sara		No. Really? Why?
stephen		It's a waste of time-and we suck.
sara		Why would you say that?
stephen		Well, let me think about this. The only places we can get booked is at my own frat house and at my girlfriend's coffee shop.
sara		Hold it. Did you just say girlfriend?
stephen		You heard me.
sara		So you think it'll be fun to stay here during Thanksgiving?
stephen		Dinner at the frat, the football games. Don't forget the always awkward, homoerotic humor.
sara		Sounds like a blast.
stephen		Oh. For sure.
sara		Oh my God. What happened? She cradles Rebecca, who buries her head in between her knees. Sara checks the bruises on her head and arms.
sara		Rebecca. It's okay. You're safe now. Talk to me.
rebecca		I was looking for Cuddles. A man... pulled me into an alley. He tried... Sara holds her. She can't finish.
sara		It's okay. It's okay. Shhh.
rebecca		I got away.
sara		You're alright now. Sara notices a streak of blood against Rebecca's shirt. She pulls it up and sees a slash. Gasps.
sara		It's not deep, thank God. But you should see a doctor.
rebecca		No.
sara		Rebecca, you need to. And then the police.
rebecca		I don't want to. I can't. Sara pulls out her cell phone.
sara		You're calling them, or I am. There's a psycho walking around this campus.
sara		Okay, okay. I won't call. Just let me help you. Rebecca calms down. Let's Sara finish. Watching her intently as she works.
sara		Sorry about not staying. But, Rebecca...
stephen		I get it.
sara		Just say you'll miss me.
stephen		I'll miss you. Rebecca pulls up in her car. Sara gets in. Rebecca gives Stephen an "I win" look as Sara closes the door.
sara		I haven't heard from Jason in weeks. It's weird how he just stopped calling.
rebecca		It's what you wanted, right? Sara nods, reassuring herself.
sara		Yeah. Yeah it is. Sara looks out the window. Rebecca shows a hint of a smile.
sara		This is your home?
rebecca		It's my parents house. It was never a home.
rebecca		Nothing.
dad		Nothing? This isn't nothing.
dad		Hello. And you are?
sara		I'm Sara. She puts out her hand, but cuts Rebecca a look. You didn't tell them?
rebecca		Sara's my roommate.
mom		It's so great to meet you, Sara. I'm Alison. Rebecca grabs Sara by the arm.
rebecca		Come on, let me show you my room.
sara		You didn't tell them we were coming?
rebecca		They didn't need to know. Rebecca plops down on the bed. Sara looks around. It's a typical teenage girl's bedroom. Except, no posters. Just drawings covering the walls. The drawings are of teenage girls -- more precisely, they're different drawings of one teenage girl. They're odd, but compelling.
sara		These are interesting.
rebecca		Yeah, some of my high school work. I haven't gotten around to takin them down.
sara		Rebecca's a pretty great artist.
jeff		Yeah, we think Rebecca is so talented. Rebecca shakes her head, uncomfortable with the flattery.
sara		She's an awesome roommate, too.
jeff		(looks at his daughter,
rebecca		Dad!
jeff		What? As a parent you worry. You protect your daughter all her life and then she goes off to college and she's on her own. I'm just relieved she got a good roommate. Sara cuts discreet looks around the table. Who are these people?
alison		Sara, I'll make up a room for you --
rebecca		She'll stay in my room. Sara turns to Rebecca, confused but willing to go along.
rebecca		We can share the bed if you want. Sara looks down at her own "bed" and takes a glance at the walls. On the floor, she's going to be surrounded by the drawings of Rebecca looking at her.
sara		Sure. Sara climbs into bed with Rebecca. They lay back to back. Rebecca turns the lamp off next to the bed.
rebecca		Thanks for coming.
sara		Next Thanksgiving, you can run interference with my family.
rebecca		Done. Sara closes her eyes. It's silent. Rebecca turns over. A beat. She opens her eyes -- just inches from Sara. She ever so slowly raises her hand and gently strokes Sara's hair.
kitchen		Jeff opens the fridge. The soft light barely illuminates Rebecca, sitting stoically at the table behind her father. Jeff jumps. He recovers, standing by the open fridge.
jeff		Becs. You scared me. Rebecca, glass of milk in her hand, gives her father a dirty look. We know how much she hates nicknames.
jeff		How're you doing?
rebecca		Fine. My grades are good.
jeff		That's not what I meant. She looks down at the table.
rebecca		I'm making friends. Jeff, very subtly, cringes. A long beat.
jeff		Rebecca, look at me for a second. Now she looks at him.
jeff		Your mother and I are very fond of you.
rebecca		I know. He doesn't know what else to say. Outside Sara sees the framed photos on the wall. Each features Rebecca's parents in some exotic locale: On the beach... on the ski slopes... on a cruise ship. They smile happily at the camera. Rebecca isn't in a single picture.
jeff		I just wanted to make sure. Good night, I'm heading back to bed. He rises. Sara turns and walks up the stairs.
alison		Hi Sara.
sara		Hi. Rebecca's going to show me some of her high school hangouts.
alison		Wonderful. Alison peers up the stairs.
alison		Rebecca seems to be doing well.
sara		Uhhh, yeah. I think she is.
alison		Is she taking her medication?
sara		Medication? Alison turns to see... her daughter at the top of the stairs. Did she hear them? She walks down.
alison		Hey sweetheart. She kisses her on the cheek. Rebecca is annoyed.
alison		Have a great time, you two.
rebecca		Is everything okay?
sara		Yeah. It's just... She wants to ask her about that medication.
sara		Nice to see where you come from.
sara		Thanks. The cashier stares at her, as if trying to figure Sara out. What's she doing with Rebecca? The girls sit at a table. The cashier and BARISTA keep glancing over, whispering to each other. Rebecca shoots them a look. Like a warning. They quiet. Start doing busy work.
sara		You know them?
rebecca		They went to my high school.
sara		Friends? Rebecca doesn't answer her. She's focused on making eye contact with the Brunette. The girls linger by the door, whispering among themselves. Finally, the Brunette sits down at a table by the entrance. As far away from Rebecca's and Sara's table as possible. The other two girls walk to the counter. They sneak glances at Rebecca as they order their drinks. Sara looks back and forth between Rebecca and the girls. Rebecca doesn't waver. She keeps staring at the Brunette. Suddenly, Rebecca gets up.
rebecca		Let's leave. Rebecca walks towards the door. Sara, confused, gathers her things and gets up. Rebecca stops at the Brunette's table. The Brunette sits there, like a deer caught in headlights.
rebecca		Hello, Maria.
rebecca		Oh, I wanted to introduce you to Sara. My roommate. Sara gives a small wave to Maria, who looks her over. Almost as if she feels sorry for her.
maria		Hi. Rebecca keeps eyeing Maria, a superior grin on her face. An awkward beat. Everyone's tense. Sara clears her throat.
sara		Well, we better go. Rebecca snaps out of it. Nods. They start to walk out. But as they open the door...
maria		Rebecca. Everyone turns to Maria. She looks Rebecca in the eye.
maria		We were never friends. Rebecca stares at her, grinding her teeth. The tension building. Maria doesn't back down, though. She needed to say this. Sara grabs Rebecca's shoulder, gently.
sara		Come on, let's go.
sara		I guess college is a fresh start for both of us. Rebecca doesn't look at her. Just a hint of acknowledgement on her face. Sara's phone buzzes. This gets Rebecca's attention. Sara looks at the text message she just received from Irene: "back in LA. lemme know abt movin in."
sara		Irene's back in town. Sara types and sends a text back. Rebecca watches her.
rebecca		 Good run?
sara		 Great. You wanna go get dinner?
rebecca		I'm going to the art studio.
sara		Oh. Okay. Catch you later then.
rebecca		Don't wait up, Sara...
rebecca		Forgot my pad. She snags it from her bed and leaves. Sara eyes Rebecca's dresser. But first... She walks to the door and opens it.
stephen		Your door was open.
sara		Oh my God.
stephen		Sorry. Sara grabs him and gives him a long hug. Stephen holds her tight and speaks, muffled by her neck.
stephen		What are those? A beat. Should she bring him into this?
sara		That's what I intend to find out.
stephen		Jesus. I thought she was just weird.
sara		It says lithium can control the condition.  Maybe these are refills. Maybe she's been taking it all along.
stephen		Certainly doesn't seem like she's been taking them. He's right and she knows it. A beat.
sara		I think it's time I moved in with Irene.
irene		I'm sorry to stare, but you are so beautiful.
rebecca		Thanks. So are you. Great lips. What kind is it?
irene		It's cinnamon. Caffeinated. A girl never knows how late she's gonna party. Rebecca smiles. A beat.
rebecca		Can I try it? Irene hands her the lip gloss... Rebecca takes her hand and pulls her close. She kisses Irene full on the lips.
rebecca		You're right... cinnamon. Irene smiles. This room's heating up fast. Irene's eyes meet Rebecca's.
rebecca		Why don't we get out of here. I'd invite you to my place, but I have a roommate.
irene		As luck would have it, I'm only two blocks away and...no roommate.
rebecca		What are we waiting for?
irene		Shit. She looks at an empty glass on her bedside table.
rebecca		Hey!
sara		Hey yourself. Where were you all night?
rebecca		Oh, I got inspired. I just lost track of time. Sara pulls off her sweaty top and throws it in the hamper, grabbing a towel. She's wearing a sportsbra, revealing her tattoo. Sara grabs a robe. A beat. She's nervous, but she needs to do this. Time for the "big talk." She sits on her bed and faces Rebecca.
rebecca		I want a tattoo.
sara		Uhhh...
rebecca		Please. It would mean a lot to me. I won't be able to do it without you. Sara looks into her plaintive eyes. So much want in them.
sara		Um... sure. Okay.
sara		You can't rush this, Rebecca. We can always come back.
rebecca		I know what I want.
sara		Okay. I'm out here if you need me. Sara sits down as the TATTOO ARTIST escorts Rebecca upstairs. She looks giddy and nervous. Sara waves. When she's gone, Sara takes out her phone and texts Irene.
stairs		Rebecca walks slowly down the stairs. Wincing in pain. Sara puts the phone back in her pocket and stands up.
sara		Let's see it. Rebecca pulls down the collar of her shirt to reveal, just under her collarbone:
rebecca		If you want... you can call me Emily. Sara clenches her fists. She's shaking with rage. She moves toward Rebecca, whose grin fades.
rebecca		What's the matter? Sara steps up to her, inches away, ready to beat the shit out of her. And Rebecca can't believe it. She's that far gone. Her eyes search Sara's for an answer. Sara abruptly turns and walks out the door. Rebecca watches her leave through the front window. Sara never looks back.
stephen		This is all you're taking?
sara		I'll get the rest of my things when Irene comes back to town. He takes the box. Then notices --
stephen		Where's your necklace? She instinctively rubs the base of her neck.
sara		I can't find it. It's okay.
stephen		Sara...
sara		I'm not going back up there. He hands her the box. Time to man up.
stephen		Wait here. I'll go look for it. She kisses him tenderly, unbelievably appreciative.
stephen		Have you seen Sara's necklace? Rebecca solemnly shakes her head. He looks around the dresser. In the drawers. Flips over Sara's pillow. Rebecca watches him.
rebecca		What did I do? He stops searching. Looks at her.
stephen		She just needs to move on.
rebecca		With you? He doesn't answer. He keeps searching... but he can feel Rebecca's eyes on him now. Creepy. He gives up.
stephen		If you do find it, can you let me know? Instead of answering, Rebecca raises her camera and takes his picture. Stephen stares at her, unnerved. He finally snaps out of it and walks out the door. She watches him go.
stephen		You should call someone. The dean's office. Or at least your R.A. She keeps cleaning.
sara		And tell them what? What has she really done to me? No one can do anything.
stephen		Well, she sure scared the shit out of me. Sara really wants to change the subject. She holds up two of his t-shirts.
sara		Are these dirty or clean? Stephen sniffs the shirts.
stephen		Somewhere in between. She throws the t-shirts at him.
sara		Seriously. Is it a game to be as loud as you possibly can? She waves her arms like a crazy person.
sara		Hey, I'm going to hit the library.
sara		No, it's okay.
stephen		Party starts at ten. Really cool band...
sara		I hear the drummer's really hot.
stephen		He may be, but I'm sleeping with his girlfriend... She kisses him.
jason		Sara. I'm actually... I'm in front of your dorm. I just flew in. I'm at the Roosevelt Hotel, room 210. Call me, okay? He hangs up. Some students leave the dorm and he grabs the door before it closes.
jason		Rebecca crumples up the paper and throws it in the trash.
girl		Help me find the keg?
stephen		Sure, I have to go look for my girlfriend anyway. She walks away. "Jerk". He grins... and now checks his watch. Where's Sara?
rebecca		Shhhh. She crawls onto him, not letting him turn over. She starts kissing the back of his neck.
jason		Sara?
rebecca		Mm-hmmm. Kissing his back now, moving lower.
jason		Oh, man, Sara. Oh, that feels good. She works her way back up to his ear.
jason		I love you, Sara. She lets him have one, two, three seconds of heaven. Her hands reach behind her and ease out the utility knife.
rebecca		But she doesn't love you. Jason's eyes fly open. That wasn't Sara's voice. And those aren't Sara's eyes boring into his. Rebecca leans down, her face to his. Jason's eyes widen in shock, horror, and now pain as her unseen hands drive the knife deep into his gut. He gasps.
rebecca		You hurt her. She kisses him -- the last thing he'll ever feel. He shudders, trembles, and lies still, eyes open.
librarian		We're about to close. Sara can't believe it's so late. She puts her things away. Grabs her phone to check the time, distracted by the "1 new voicemail" message. She's about to press the voicemail button... But a text comes in from Irene:
frat boy		All hands on deck -- the keg's still alive.
sara		Irene?
sara		Irene? There's a bedroom dead ahead. Warm light pours out. She slowly walks to the open door... looks in... and freezes. CLOSE ON SARA'S EYES. Horror-stricken by what she sees. The bedroom is dark, except for the single lamp, above... Irene. She lies on the bed, each of her wrists cuffed to a bedpost. A red Hermes scarf is stuffed in her mouth. Sara can't move. She stares at Irene in shock.
sara		Rebecca! Rebecca holds the gun steady on Sara.
rebecca		Sit down and shut up. Sara lowers herself into a black chair, her eyes on Irene. Rebecca picks up Sara's cell phone.
rebecca		Listen to me. All I ever wanted was to be your friend. A beat. Sara knows she has to play this just right.
sara		Rebecca, you are my friend.
rebecca		No. Shut up. We're not friends. We're here because you betrayed me.
sara		Rebecca, I'm sorry--
rebecca		Stop it. Stop saying things you don't mean. I protected you. From that whore Tracy and that nasty little kitten... and That scumbag of a professor...
sara		What're you talking about? What'd you do to them? What'd you do to Jason?
rebecca		I got rid of them all. And how do you repay me? By leaving me. Sara sinks out of the chair onto her knees in astonishment. She looks at Irene. Sara digs deep... lifts up her face... and looks Rebecca in the eye. She puts everything she has into this.
sara		Rebecca, please forgive me. A long beat. Rebecca's face lights up.
rebecca		Now we can start all over again. Let's make things the way they were, Sara. That first day. Just the two of us. Sara sees Rebecca start to twist a garbage bag in her hands.
sara		Rebecca...
rebecca		After all... you can only have one best friend.
sara		No! Don't! Rebecca whips the bag around Irene's head. Irene starts to buck and thrash. But it doesn't help her...
rebecca		Lay still bitch.
sara		Please. Don't do this... Sara stands. She stares at Irene. She can't watch her die. She walks toward the bed, ignoring Rebecca's gun.
rebecca		Stop! I mean it. Rebecca raises the gun to Sara's face but Sara keeps coming. Rebecca realizes she can't stop Sara. She cracks Sara across the temple with the gun-butt, knocking her to the floor. She kneels down beside Sara. Worried... clearing the hair from Sara's face.
rebecca		Don't make me hurt you, Sara. I just want to be your friend.
irene		My phone. My phone. She nods her head and Sara sees the phone on the bed table. She rushes for it. No good the wire is cut!
sara		Shit!
irene		The window! There's a fire escape. You can reach it.
rebecca		I know you're scared, Sara. But I promise, everything is gonna be okay. She stops short at the sight of...Sara on the ledge. Rebecca turns and stares at Irene. Fresh panic rising in Irene's eyes.
rebecca		Sorry, Irene. But she's my friend, not yours. She raises the gun at the helpless Irene... But out of nowhere STEPHEN, RUSHING UP FROM BEHIND, knocks her arm. The gun fires wildly, one bullet...
irene		Hurry!! He sees Sara dangling outside and reaches for her.
stephen		Okay I've got you. Everything is gonna be okay! He pulls her halfway in the window... But a shadow rises behind him.
sara		Stephen. Stephen is out. She sees the gun in his belt. She pulls it out, spins, and levels it at Rebecca. The gun shakes violently in her hand. Rebecca stands and walks calmly towards Sara, who is still on the floor.
rebecca		You won't do it. We're fr-- Sara pulls the trigger. Click. Rebecca stares in shock. Click. Click. Click. Click. Sara closes her eyes in frustration. She drops the gun. Tears stream down Rebecca's face. She can't believe Sara pulled that trigger. But as if flipping a switch... Rebecca's sadness turns to rage. She balls her fists, her knuckles white, and... CHARGES at Sara full force, slamming her against the wall. She tosses her like a ragdoll across the room, where... Sara's head slams the nightstand, knocking the contents of Rebecca's purse everywhere. Rebecca wipes the tears from her eyes. It hurts her to hurt Sara.
rebecca		Friends help each other. They take care of each other. Sara, dazed and weak, stares at Rebecca.
sara		Rebecca. We were never friends. That's the last straw. Rebecca comes hard, murder in her eyes. She grabs Sara around the throat, pulls her up from the floor, and slams her against the wall. She starts choking the life out of her. Sara's face turns red. Redder... But suddenly Rebecca's grip loosens. Her eyes stare in shock. Sara pulls Rebecca's hands off her neck with one hand. The utility knife is in her other hand... stuck between Rebecca's shoulder blades. Rebecca falls to the floor, bringing Sara down with her. She won't let go of Sara. As she gasps for air, she sees... Sara's tattoo, visible beneath her torn shirt. Sara self- consciously notices her looking at it. Rebecca reaches out and grabs Sara's hand. Sara lets go of her hand, and removes the necklace from around Rebecca's neck. Irene is trembling in the bed. Too shocked to say anything.
sara		Stephen. Hold on. She finds her phone on the floor. She steps back to Stephen and cradles his head in her lap as she dials 911. He looks into her eyes and smiles. She smiles through her tears, love in her eyes.
sara		Hey. How are you feeling? Stephen enters the room.
stephen		Better now. You being here's gonna help. Sara smiles.
sara		Just got here.
stephen		Well let me give you some time to get settled in.
sara		Actually, I need you right here, right now. Stephen grins. He likes where this is headed.
stephen		Okay.
stephen		This isn't exactly what I had in mind. Sara grins.
sara		Now I can get settled in.
stephen		I'll be back to pick you up for dinner. You gonna be ready?
sara		Absolutely. Stephen takes off down the hall. Sara follows him with her eyes before she goes back into her room.
****Dialogues from script :Roughshod.txt****

story by		 Peter Viertel
graham		 Wait a minute -- stop --
graham		All right --  What are you girls doin' way out here?
mary		Until you came along we were going to Sonora.
graham		What do you know about that. Did you sell your place?
mary		 Can I make it?
graham		Depends on how good you drive.
helen		She's a little out of practice.
graham		 Slide over.
helen		 I'm slidin' all the way over.
marcia		 So am I. Come on Elaine.
elaine		 What's the difference if we fall in the canyon.
marcia		Don't talk like that.
graham		Nothin' to it --
graham		-- once you know how. Trouble is, never was a woman knew how to handle a team. Shouldn't let 'em loose on the roads. No disrespect meant, Miss Wells.
graham		Get up.
graham		There you are. Now take it easy and you'll be all right.
mary		Thank you, Mr. Graham.
marcia		 There's -- dead men -- in your wagon!
graham		That's right. You had me so busy I forgot --  Come to think of it you better turn around and drive right back to Aspen.
graham		They were murdered. I found the bodies on Alder Crick, northeast of here. Like I said if I was you, I'd go back, because the men who killed them might be on this road.
elaine		 Back to what?
graham		Why, back to Aspen, where you came from.
mary		Aspen doesn't want us Mr. Graham. They threw us out.
graham		 They shouldn't have done that.
mary		We tried to point that out. But there were some pretty nosey citizens who wouldn't listen to reason. They said Aspen had outgrown us. It's all right to play poker in your own home but not in a saloon.
graham		 I knew something would happen when they started puttin' up fences and passin' laws.
mary		Goodbye and thanks.
graham		I don't like to see you go.
graham		But that's the way it is. The live ones go out and the dead ones come in.
steve		How does she draw?
clay		A little hot.
sam		You want to get out of here before noon, maybe you should lend me a hand.
clay		Rate you're goin', we'll be here until winter.
sam		 Account of you, I miss out on the only excitement Aspen's had for months.
clay		You're too old to watch such goin's on.
steve		And I'm too young.
clay		That's right.
steve		I don't see no sense to makin' people leave town if they don't want to leave.
sam		I don't either -- when people are that good-lookin'. Maybe that's why -- they were too good-lookin'.  But there'll be others along to take their place after a while when this quiets down. And everything will be fine until some busybody starts stirring up trouble.
clay		 Don't you ever run down?
sam		 Some people just have to run other people's lives. Now take Clay. You want to amble up the street and see the fun and what does he say?
clay		 You stick to your blacksmithin' and let me take care of Steve.
clay		We'll both take a look. Anything's better than listenin' to Sam.  Don't forget to shoe the mule.
clay		Who are they?
man		Don't know. Graham brought 'em in.
gardner's voice		Clay, come up here a minute.
clay		Hello Graham -- Joe -- Mr. Gardner.
gardner		Graham's got something to tell you might interest you.
graham		 Cal Forster and his sons. Somebody killed 'em.
graham		You know that cottonwood grove on Alder Crick? They must have been eatin' breakfast the way it looked, sittin' by the fire eatin' breakfast and when I got there nothin' but them lyin' dead in their underdrawers. No horses or guns or grub.
clay		 But what's that got to do with me? I came into town from the south.
gardner		This was smoulderin' on the fire.
clay		I still don't see.
gardner		I got it day before yesterday.
gardner		Now are you interested?
gardner		You should be. Maybe Lednov heard about that Sonora ranch of yours.
clay		Maybe he did.
gardner		We're going to look for him. Want to come along?
clay		I've got eleven horses to get over the mountains before snow catches me and covers the feed.
gardner		 And that's more important than finding Lednov?
clay		Like you said, maybe he knows where my ranch is. If he does, he'll be waiting on the porch.
gardner		 I'll drop the sheriff in Sonora a line to sort of look around for him.
clay		Thanks.
steve		Who's Lednov?
clay		A man I used to know.
hayes		Forget somethin', Clay?
clay		Shells. How much for six boxes?
hayes		Six times six bits. But wait until I finish this.
steve		You might tell a fellow things, 'specially if the fellow's your brother, seems to me.
clay		Like what?
steve		Like why you're buyin' a whole slew of 30 30 shells all of a sudden.
clay		I don't want to run short.
steve		You never said this Lednov's name before, that I can remember.
clay		No call to. That jail looked pretty solid to me.  How's she feel?
steve		Nice.
hayes		You know bettern' to do that, Steve. Unless you're figurin' on buyin' it.
clay		One he's got, more his size.
steve		But it's leaded up and anyway a 22's no good for real huntin'. You shoot a man with a 22 and where are you?
clay		The thing to do is stick to rabbits.
steve		What was he in jail for?
clay		You sure worry that bone. He killed a fellow.
steve		In a fight?
clay		The other fellow wasn't even lookin'.
steve		This is an awful nice gun.  Certainly come in handy when there's men around who shoot people that aren't lookin'.
clay		 I may as well buy it for him. Otherwise he'll be crying all the way over the hill.
steve		You must be plenty worried about Lednov sneakin' up on us.  Think he will?
clay		Yes.
steve		At the ranch maybe?
clay		Maybe at the ranch. Maybe sooner than that.
steve		 Do you have to be so close-mouthed? I'm your brother. And I'm ridin' with you. Remember?
clay		 All right. I'll tell you.
clay		Let's say this is the penitentiary.
clay		Here's Alder Crick.
clay		And here we are in Aspen.
clay		That's Sonora.
clay		motioning) Lednov gets out of jail and comes along here to Alder Crick. Then goes along here toward the Sonora road.
clay		That's Lednov!  We come along here.
steve		 And meet him there.
clay		Unless the sheriff gets too close and he holes up.
clay		So let's go.
steve		 Sure a lot of guys lookin' for Lednov.
clay		Yeah -- and Lednov's only lookin' for one man. Me.
steve		Why?
clay		He doesn't like me. What you eatin'?
steve		Lednov.
steve		I don't like him.
steve		Another one, Clay.
steve		They sure must have been travelin'. This keeps up we can start a store.
clay		Things get tough next winter, you'll have somethin' to wear.
steve		I'd look good doin' the ploughin' in this.
clay		Anybody hurt?
mary		No. We came down the hill a little fast and...  Can you fix it for us?
clay		What's the matter with her?
mary		 Too much excitement. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?
steve		Jimininy. You sure were lucky, just bustin' a wheel.
helen		 You think that'sall we busted -- You should see...
clay		This must have been in the family a long time.
mary		 It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells.
mary		And this is Helen Carter.
clay		I'm Clay Phillips.  My brother Steve.
steve		 We found your trunk. Were you doin' the driven'?
mary		I was at first. Then I was hanging on.  Are you going far?
clay		Yes, ma'am.
mary		As far as -- Sonora?
clay		Just about.
mary		We're going to Sonora, too, so that solves everything.
mary		We can ride in your wagon.
mary		We wouldn't think of asking you to take us for nothing.
mary		There's only four of us.
clay		I've got eleven horses.
steve		 Morgan blood. The beat in Nevada. Clay and me have a place on the Toulomne River. We're going to raise horses like these.
mary		They won't be riding in the wagon.
clay		 Did you ever try taking a bunch of horses over Sonora Pass? It's quite a job.
mary		You can't leave us here.
clay		Course I can't. I'll give you a lift to the first ranch.
mary		What good is it going to do us to go to some ranch?
clay		 You can stay here if you like.
mary		We have to get to Sonora. There are jobs waiting for us there. We'll pay you for your trouble.
clay		I'm not running a stage line, ma'am, and I can't take a chance on losing the horses.
clay		When you're old enough to smoke, I'll tell you.  Get the horses started on ahead, will you, Steve?
helen		Afraid it will stop him growin'?
clay		 Let's get your stuff in the wagon. Like I said, I'll take you to the first ranch. I wish I could carry you all the way, but I can't. It's a tough trip and women would be in the way.
mary		 Our kind of women?
clay		 You'll have to drive -- except down hill.
helen		Maybe you're going about this all wrong. Why not try telling him we'll do the cookin' and mendin' and washin' for him. That usually works.  Yeah, but suppose he took us up on it. Where would we be?
mary		Maybe in Sonora.
clay		What's the matter with her?
mary		 Too much excitement. Or maybe it's just the heat. How about the surrey. Can you fix it?
steve		Jiminy. You sure were lucky, just bustin' a wheel.
helen		 You think that's all we busted -- You should see...
mary		 Now where's she goin'? --
elaine		 I -- lost something.
clay		It wouldn't happen to be this...
mary		Who's the old folks?
elaine		 Give it to me!
clay		This must have been in the family a long time.
mary		 It was a gift from the citizens of Aspen. I'm Mary Wells.
mary		And this is Helen Carter.
clay		I'm Clay Phillips.  My brother Steve.
steve		 We found your trunk. Were you doin' the drivin'?
mary		Come on, Honeybunch. We're changing trains.
mary		A nice, kind wrangler is letting us ride in his wagon...
mary		...as far as the first ranch. From then on --
elaine		What ranch?
mary		What's the difference?
elaine		 Ask him what ranch --
mary		There's plenty of time for that.  Come on, now. You've got to lie down out of this sun. Stop worrying. I'll find out what ranch after a while.
clay		 Stretch out under the seat, Miss.
elaine		 Which ranch?
clay		How's that?
mary		She's worried about where you're taking us.
mary		 So am I.
clay		It's a nice place owned by an old couple named Wyatt.
clay's voice		They'll take you in until you can make other arrangements.
clay		So both of you stop worrying.
clay's voice		Steve, see the horses don't drink too much --
steve		Leave that unharnessing for me, Ma'am.
clay		There's a place down a ways, where you and the girls can wash some of that dust off.
mary		Thanks. And isn't there something we can do about supper -- or making the beds?
clay		 Steve and me, we use a saddle for a pillow and roll up in a tarp.
mary		 But you eat, don't you?
clay		Mostly, we open a can of beans and boil some coffee.
mary		Where do you keep the can opener?
clay		In the grub box.  Toward morning the dew gets kind of heavy so maybe you better fix up a bed under the wagon. Spread some bunch grass under the tarp and the ground won't be so hard.
mary		Marcia -- all of you. Come on.
steve		 Where'd they go?
clay		Swimming.
steve		It's sort of nice having company along. Not so lonesome.
clay		When you get the team watered, rustle up some wood.
steve		 You boys have had enough.
helen's voice		And I'm the girl who used to complain to my mother about helping with the wash.
clay		Get your rifle.
clay		 Hold it.
clay		Drop your gun.
clayton		 Drop yours. I'm gunshy.
clay		Then don't come sneakin' around a man's camp.
clayton		A fellow sees a fire go out all of a sudden, he don't take chances. My name's Clayton and I'm looking for someone.
clayton		I found their surrey --
clay		So did I. They were in it.
clayton		She's a friend -- took off this morning sort of sudden while I wasn't around.
clay		 My brother, Steve. I'm Phillips.
clay		I gave the girls a lift. Didn't know what else to do with them. Get your horse and come on.
clay		 Here's a man says he's looking for you girls.
clayton		Hello, Miss Wells.
marcia		Jim.
clayton		I was roundin' up some stock. That's why I didn't come sooner.
clayton		What do you mean running off without a word.
marcia's voice		I didn't know who to tell, it all happened so sudden, those people comin' and throwin' us out on the street.
jim's voice		Don't you think about it, darlin'. Don't you think about anythin' but us.
helen		 Looks like we lose a good piano player.
marcia		 Jim came after me, Mary.
mary		 I see he did.
helen		With a milk pail in one hand and a marriage license in the other.
mary		 Why didn't you say you wanted to get married back in Aspen. I told the man in Sonora there were four of us. If only three show up, he might call the whole deal off. We've got to stick together. Like we've always done.
marcia		I've got a chance to get married.
mary		 That's what I'm gettin' at. It never works. Don't forget we were thrown out of Aspen.
marcia		Jim doesn't care, do you, Jim?
mary		But Jim isn't the only one you're marrying. He has folks and friends. What are they going to say? And how're they going to feel? I tell you, it won't work.
clay		Of course it'll work. You can get another girl to fill out the act.
mary		 And look at it this way. How about Jim -- it puts him in a sort of tough spot.
jim		I know what I'm doing. My folks got nothin' to do with it --
mary		You've talked this over with them?
jim		They know about Marcia.
mary		 And they don't like the idea!
clay		Suppose they don't. This is his problem. He's over twenty-one. He wants to marry Marcia and Marcia wants to marry him so let 'em alone.
mary		If you were in his shoes would you take one of us home?
clay		I'm not in his shoes, so leave me out of it.
steve		 I would!
clay		 Steve maybe you better get some wood for the fire.
mary		Would you, Mr. Phillips?
clay		 Go on, there's a good boy.
mary		 Don't you want him to hear your answer? Well, I know what it is. For the other fellow it's all right -- but not you. All you want is to get rid of one of us.
jim		Wait a minute.
jim		No need of you two arguin' about this. We know what we want to do, and nothin' either of you says makes any difference. We want to go home -- tonight.  Will you sell me one of your horses?
clay		I'm sorry. I can't do that. I went a long way to get those horses.
jim		All right, we'll ride double. Come on, Marcia.
mary		No need to do that, Marcia.
mary		We've got two horses and they're four of us. So half of one of 'em is yours.  The other half's a wedding present.
mary		Big-hearted fella. Can't see young love thwarted -- especially if it makes one less girl to worry about. That's all you really want, isn't it.
mary		Is that your kind of reading, Steve?
steve		I can't read, Ma'am. I just look at the pictures.
mary		You can't read?
mary		Your brother's always looked after you, hasn't he?
steve		Since I can remember, Ma'am.
mary		But he just never troubled to have you get any schooling?
steve		It wasn't Clay's fault. We've been moving around most all the time -- mebbe when we get the ranch and stay in one place I can learn my letters then --
mary		Don't you even know your letters?
steve's voice		No, Ma'am.
mary		Would you like to learn them?
steve		I sure would.
mary		Maybe I could start you out.
steve		That'd be swell.  You know, you're an awful lot different than I thought you'd be.
steve		You're so nice.
mary		Did someone say I wasn't nice?
steve		Oh no. Nobody said nothing to me. Only I got the idea that -- well Clay and me used to be walking through town and there was your place and through the window I could see you dancing, but Clay always took me over to the other side of the street.
clay		 Time to go to bed, Steve.
steve		Good night, Miss Wells.
mary		Good night, Steve.
mary		 There's a nice boy.
clay		Yeah.
mary		 That why you always took him on the other side of the street?
mary		 Maybe I don't make the grade in some ways, but I know enough to teach a kid his letters.
clay		 He doesn't know his letters, no -- but he knows the names of animals... he knows what roots to eat when you're clear out of food... He knows the difference between a possum and a coon just by lookin' at the tracks... more than most trappers know... and he can tell whether she'll rain or shine tomorrow by smelling the air tonight. There's a lot of things he doesn't know, I hope he'll never learn.
mary		Like what?
clay		 Like sticking his nose into other people's business.
mary		Where's Elaine?
helen		She was here a while ago.
mary		 Elaine!
mary's voice		Elaine.  Clay -- Elaine's gone.
helen		She can't have gone far. I wasn't asleep long.
clay		What would she run off for?
mary		 Because she's sick.
clay		 Stay here. One woman wanderin' off's enough.
steve		Don't you worry, Miss Wells. We'll find her.
clay		 Build the fire up and stick close to it. Come on, Steve.
clay		 Look around. She can't have gone far.
mary		 Elaine -- Elaine -- Elaine.
mary's voice		Elaine -- Elaine.
steve		Ma'am -- you shouldn't have run off like that. Why I was just about to give up lookin'. Come on, now.
steve		You can't stay here. There's snakes and it's cold and you'll just get sicker.
elaine		I don't care.
steve		Suppose that Lednov was to have found you, instead of me. Why you wouldn't have had a chance.
elaine		 I said I didn't care.
steve		What's botherin' you, anyway?
steve		Runnin' off and worryin' people. Makin' it tougher on Clay than it is already.
elaine		 Don't ask me because I won't tell you! I won't tell anybody! Go away!
steve		Don't act so -- crazy.
elaine		 I'm sorry. Let's go.
steve		 That's a good girl.
steve		That's it. Watch out where you're steppin' --
steve		That oughta be --  Down.
steve		Lednov --
gardner		Want to take her off our hands?
clay		Who shot who?
gardner		Nobody. The light was bad.
gardner		Steve's!
gardner		What's she doin' runnin' around the country at night.
clay		I wouldn't know. Did you ask her?
gardner		All I can get out of her is she don't care about livin'.
clay		Look of things, she doesn't.
gardner		Yeah. Keep a closer eye on her --  And him. Shootin' going on, we'll never find Lednov.
steve		There was only three of them at first. I guess I lost my head.
clay		 How'd you happen to miss?
steve		They were quite a ways off and the wind was blowin'. I didn't have them to aim.
clay		Good thing you didn't.
steve		Clay --
steve		A man can't help gettin' excited once in a while.
clay		That's right, Steve.
steve		Can I have my gun back?
clay		Sure. You'll find it under the wagon seat. Like I said before, a twenty- two's more your size.
steve		 Gee, I can't.
mary		Why not? You went farther than that last time.
steve		I'm too old for it, Miss Wells... That's for little kids.
mary		Don't be silly... Nobody's too old to learn.
steve		 Okay. A-B-C -- D-E-F -- G-H-I --
clay		 Oh, Steve!
clay		Get back to the horses. They're straggling.
mary		He's learning his letters.
clay		Yeah. While the horses wander all over the country.
clay		 Do like I said.
mary		 Learnin' to read has nothing to do with the right or the wrong side of the street.
clay		 Are the horses stragglin' or aren't they?
mary		 They're stragglin'.
clay		His letters will keep.
clay		Steve -- I want you to learn to read. I meant to teach you but I never seemed to find time. I figured when we got settled on the ranch we'd get around to it.
clay		It's all right with me if she teaches you, but I don't want you forgettin' your job.
steve		 I won't again.
clay		This isn't like other trips we've taken. For one thing, we've got a wagonload of women. For another there's a guy wanderin' around hopin' to put a bullet in my back.
steve		Okeh, I was wrong. But you can't expect a fellow who never saw Lednov and never heard his name until a while ago to do too much worryin'. You've been sorta close mouthed about him.
clay		I guess I have. You were pretty little when they locked him up. I don't suppose you even remember that time I was gone two months.
steve		Sure I remember. You went to Mexico lookin' for cattle.
clay		 You remember Jeff Rawson? -- We used to go fishing and hunting with him when you were so high.
steve		 Sure I do. Went off down to Mexico or something...
clay		That's what I told you then. Only he didn't. Lednov killed him.
steve		Oh... that's the time you went away.
clay		 I caught up with Lednov in Nogales. He didn't like the idea of comin' back across the border but he came. I turned him over to the sheriff and -- that's the story.
steve		 Maybe you shoulda killed him.
clay		Maybe I should. But I was never much on killin'. Anyway, he moved too quick and I just got him through the shoulder.  Looks pretty peaceful up ahead.
steve		Yeah, it does.
clay		But you never can tell. Why don't you get that new rifle out of the wagon?
clay		And while you're there you might as well find out what comes after K.
helen		 Elaine -- stop it --
mary		She should be in bed where it's dry.
clay		 Yes, Ma'am, she should...
clay		But the nearest shelter's the Wyatt ranch and that's maybe five hours away.
mary		Can we get a doctor at that ranch?
clay		 No, Ma'am, we can't. We can get a roof and a fire and maybe Mrs. Wyatt knows something about taking care of sick people.
wyatt		 My name's Wyatt. Certainly glad you boys dropped in.
lednov		Those the only horses you got?
wyatt		Why, yes. They're all I need...
lednov		Mine's gone lame. Take a look at him.
lednov		Go on, we haven't got all day.
wyatt		Whoa, boy. Let's have a look.
wyatt		He dropped a shoe. You shouldn't be ridin' him.
lednov		Put on another one.
wyatt		That won't help the stone bruise. You ain't been around horses much, looks like.
lednov		Will you quit gabbin' and do what you're told.
wyatt		 All right, but it won't do much good.
lednov		All we want's supper.
mccall		We're in a hurry.
peters		Take care of that horse?
wyatt		 Yeah. The best I could.
wyatt		What are you doin' --
lednov		Lookin' around.
lednov		These all the shells you got?
wyatt		Put my guns down and get out of here --
lednov		Your old woman's got sense -- you listen to her.
lednov		I asked you -- these all the shells you got?
lednov		 And hurry that grub up.
clay		Only a little ways now -- maybe a mile.
clay		How's she makin' out?
helen		 If she feels worse than I do, she's dyin'.
clay		 Steve --
steve's voice		Yo --
mccall		I'll have some more of that coffee.
lednov		We got to get movin'.
mccall		What for?
lednov		Because there's a man I want to see.
mccall		He can wait. Let's stay here until morning.
lednov		 I said let's go.
mccall		 One night more won't matter. Your friend'll be there. Anyway I don't think so much of the idea of prowling around his ranch. He knows you're out so he ain't going to sit still for it.
lednov		 I said I had a guy to see and I'm going to see him.
lednov		He gave me something once so I wouldn't forget.
peters		 He says go, we go.
wyatt		If they'd only left me a gun, I'd fix 'em.
clay		Mr. Wyatt.
wyatt's voice		Who is it?
clay		Clay Phillips.
wyatt		 I'm sure glad it's you. We were afraid those killers might come back.
clay		Three men on matched roans?
wyatt		Yeah, how did you know?
clay		The whole state's lookin' for 'em.  And they're lookin' for me.
clay		Maybe you won't feel that way after I tell you what I stopped in for.
clay		I picked up some women on the road.
clay		But I'm going to have to leave 'em here. They're --- well they're not the sort of people you're used to.
clay		 And one of 'em is sick.
wyatt		 Put it back.
wyatt		 It stays there, understand!
mary		Is she very sick?
wyatt		 Get 'em out of here. I won't have 'em in this house.
mary		 So that was why she tried to run away.
clay		 Didn't you know she had a father and mother out here?
mary		 I didn't know anything about her except she wanted a job because some man had left her stranded. I couldn't leave her in the street. Let's go.
clay		Hold on.
mary		We can't stay here!
clay		It's a long walk back to Aspen.
helen		I don't know about you. But I'm not being thrown out on an empty stomach.
clay		I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know who she was.
wyatt		 All right, you didn't know.
clay		I can't take her with me.
wyatt		Nobody asked you to.
wyatt		Just get those two out of here.
clay		You're not bein' quite fair.
wyatt		What's there to be fair about?
clay		I'm sorry about this, Mr. Wyatt. I didn't know you had a daughter.
wyatt		 All right, you didn't know.
clay		I can't take her with me.
wyatt		Nobody asked you to.
wyatt		Just get these two out of here.
clay		You're not bein' quite fair.
wyatt		What's there to be fair about?
steve		Hello, Mr. Wyatt.
steve		 Where do I put your things?
mary		Back in the wagon.
steve		Aren't we stayin'?
mary		No. We're not stayin' --
mary		Everything's all mixed up, so don't ask questions.
mary		 Go on, Steve.
helen		Sit down and eat, why don't you?
helen		It isn't like this was the first place we were ever thrown out of.
mary		That's not what's worryin' me. Why didn't she tell us? Maybe we could have done somethin' -- gone somewhere else -- puttin' a poor sick kid through this --
helen		Quit worryin' about Elaine.
helen		She's home, isn't she? So worry about us. We want to get to Sonora.
clay		This will be your room until Mr. Wyatt finds time to take you to the nearest stage station.
helen		 That sounds like him.
helen		This time don't talk about cooking!
clay		Coffee?
mary		No, thanks.  I hope we won't be a burden to them.
clay		I hope so, too.
clay		 If you're figuring on asking me to take you, it's no use.
mary		A time like this people ought to be alone. Having us around is going to make it sort of hard on 'em.
clay		 I'm sorry, but that's how it's got to be.
mary		I suppose it is.
clay		And it's not only because the trip's a tough one --
mary		 You don't have to explain. Did I tell you how grateful I am for what you've done?
clay		I couldn't leave you sitting by the road.
mary		You could have treated us like they did in Aspen. No. You wouldn't do a thing like that -- it isn't in you to be mean or cruel.
mary		 No man who brings up a kid like you've brought up Steve could ever be cruel to people.
mary		I hope you get everything you want out of life --
clay		 Thanks.
mary		You've earned it -- the horse ranch on the Toulomoe -- the girl in the spotted gingham.
clay		The who?
mary		You should know. She's in your dream.
mary		Ever since you've looked after Steve you've had the dream -- a ranch on the river -- good grass, good water, barn corral and house --- that part you've shared with Steve. The girl in gingham you plan sneakin' in when he isn't looking. 
clay		 Go on. Tell me more about her.
mary		She wears this gingham dress -- cooks popovers -- makes jam in season -- makes her own soap from pig fat and wood ashes and has cheeks the color of red apples.
clay		 I'll make the soap myself.
mary		But the rest is right.
clay		Will she be dark or fair?
mary		Blonde as a new mop. And beautiful as the girl on a feed store calendar.
mary		 I hope you find her -- because, like I said, you've earned your dream. Goodnight.
helen		Did you make it interesting?
mary		I tried my best, but these things take time.
helen		And we're running out of that.
mary		There's still tomorrow morning.
helen's voice		Those trunks look like ours.
mary		They are.
helen		How long do you think we'll have to stay here?
mary		Until Pa gets around to driving us to Minden.
helen		We don't want to go there.
mary		No we don't. But that's where we're going. From Minden we take a stage to Reno, then another one over to Auburn and another one to Placerville. Then it's a day's trip to Sonora.
helen		Clay could save us an awful lot of time.
mary		He certainly could. About a month.
helen		What are you waiting for? Do something.
helen		 You're not giving up?
mary		How many ways can a man say no.
helen		 Maybe I better start working on him.
mary		You'd think he'd do it for Elaine's sake, at least...
helen		 If you can't bring him around, nobody can.
helen		Go on. Have another try at him.
mary		What's the use.
helen		 Please. Maybe he'll take a good look at you and stop thinking so much about his horses.
helen		A man has only so many no's in him.
helen		Look at you, sitting up already.
helen		Let me do this while you get some breakfast.
helen		You're worn out.
helen		Now don't argue. You've got two able- bodied girls to help you so take advantage of it. And don't let me catch you touching the dishes.
helen		Well -- it's going to be good for all of us -- having a nice long rest here. After all -- Sonora will still be there next month. Maybe we can rehearse a new number -- try it out on your folks.
elaine		Helen -- why don't you and Mary go on with Clay?
helen		He won't take us.  Don't you want us around?
elaine		Of course I do -- but it'd be better for you -- and the house is kind of small --
helen		If you're worried about Mary and me talkin' too much, don't. No matter how many questions your old man asks. We know how to keep our mouths shut.
elaine		It isn't that --
helen		Don't talk -- eat -- we want to get you well quick as we can so we can all get out of here.
elaine		But I want to stay.
helen		Drink this and stop being silly. Why would anyone want to live in this place. You might as well be dead and buried. Nothing to do but look at mountains. In a week you'd be talking to yourself.  Maybe that's what got you started in the first place.
elaine		 I'm not going anywhere. I'm staying here where I belong.
helen		Not if I know Mary. When she rides into Sonora, you'll be with her. And mighty glad to be there after this. I don't see how you stood it as long as you did.
elaine		 Stop it -- stop it.
helen		 Darling -- now I've got you all upset.
elaine		Go away -- please.
helen		That's right -- you go back to sleep. Tomorrow when you feel better things will look a whole lot different. Don't you worry about anything -- Mary's going to talk things over with your folks --
elaine		 She mustn't -- don't you let her --
helen		There, there. Don't you upset yourself --
elaine		 If she says anything to them I'll kill her.
elaine		 I don't want to leave you, ever.
helen		Nothing. The poor child's worried about Mary --
helen		I won't let her say anything --
clay		Well, I'm off --
clay		 What's the matter?
elaine		Don't let them stay here, Mr. Phillips. They'll spoil everything.
elaine		 Take them with you -- Mary's going to talk to dad -- she's going to keep talking and talking to me until maybe I won't want to stay here --
clay		I can't --
elaine		You've got to -- don't you understand -- they want me with them and they'll fix it so I have to go --
clay		 No they won't.
steve		What comes after Z?
mary		That's the end of the line.
steve		 Then I know my alphabet.
mary		From A to Z. All you have to do now is figure out what they mean put together in words.
steve		And that's tough, isn't it?
mary		Without someone to teach you, it's tough.
mary		He knows his alphabet.
clay		That's fine.
steve		I'll bet I'd be reading in a week if --
mary		Maybe Clay will take up where I left off.
steve		I don't think it's fair --
steve		Leaving them here when we could just as well take them. We got plenty of room in the wagon. And -- and -- they cook and drive the mules. They don't bother anybody.
clay		Finished, son?
steve		 There's only two of them now.
clay		I'll round up the horses. Throw that junk in the wagon.
mary		 You were right -- a man has only so many no's in him. But he had me worried -- that last one sounded so final.
steve		It's a lot tougher than I figured. Knowin' my letters is one thing. But makin' sense out of words is harder'n trackin' weasel after rain.
steve		-- and even if I do learn to read, what use'll it be? I'm goin' to live on a ranch!
mary		There's plenty of use for reading -- you'll see.
steve		U-n-i-c-o-r-n-... What in heck's that?
mary		Unicorn -- a kind of animal --
steve		What do they look like?
mary		Hmmm... sort of like a horse -- with a horn in the center of its forehead.
steve		Horses with horns! Huh! Do we have 'em in Nevada?
mary		No.
steve		How about California?
mary		Would they be good to eat?
mary		 Kind of tough, I guess... But you're not liable to hunt them -- I don't think there's any alive now, anyways -- and I'm not sure but I don't think there ever were...
steve		Then if they wasn't alive, how can they be an animal?...
steve		An' if you can't hunt 'em and even if you could they'd be tough, what's the use of knowin' how to spell them?
mary		You don't read to fill your stomach... Poetry, for instance. All the poems in the world wouldn't fill you half as much as a bowl of eatmeal -- but they make you feel good.
steve		 I feel good anyways.
clay		Don't go arguing with your teacher.
steve		I'm not, but there's some of it I don't see any sense to.
clay		There's a lot of things I don't see any sense to. But make up your mind. Learn to read or --  -- go back and watch the horses.
mary		Well, Steve?
steve		 Now I know what a unicorn is, what do we do next?
lednov		We'll camp on up ahead away. That leg ain't good...
clay		We're staying here until dark.  You put hobbles on the horses -- all of 'em. Get goin'.
mary		Where you goin'? Over to the other side of the street?
mary		Are we leaving?
clay		It's too light yet.
clay		Better go on back and get some more sleep. You'll need it later on.
mary		 You're not going out to look for them?
clay		No, I'm not. All I want 'em to do is keep ahead of us -- a long way ahead. So I'm riding up the line aways to pick us out a new trail.
steve		Nobody's gonna catch him sleeping. Don't worry about him.
mary		 I saw him saddling up and thought he was ready to leave.
steve		 You were worryin'.
steve		Sometimes not knowin' how to read has its points. You can't read books so you look at people and figure 'em out.
mary		And you've got me all figured out?
steve		Sure.
steve		I'll fix us somethin' to eat.
steve		Like when you were standin' there looking after Clay. I knew right off what you were thinking. Because I've been watching you.
mary		You were supposed to be reading words.
steve		I was doin' both. Here.
helen		Thanks, Steve.
mary		Better not let Clay catch you waitin' on us.
steve		Don't pay any attention to him. That's his way and I've found he's sure easy to get along with. I don't recollect him havin' hit me more'n a couple of times and I guess I had it comin'.
mary		But you're his brother.
steve		He'll treat his wife just as good. Maybe better. Ever see him use a bull snake on the mules like other wranglers?
steve		Yes sir, Clay's nice to be around.  He don't chew much and when he does he spits outside.
helen		 You make him sound wonderful... Go on. Tell Mary more about him.
mary		She was only teasin'.
steve		 Oh, sure.
mary		Let me do that.
steve		I like to do things for you. Didn't you know?
mary		 I know now.
mary		Don't you trust me?
clay		Not on this trail, I don't. I've been over it before. Anyway, you ought to be pretty sleepy. Why don't you climb in back.
mary		I like to see where I'm going.
clay		 Did you ever care where you were goin' or where you'd been?
mary		Maybe not! But I want to get there in one piece.
mary		 Why did you change your mind about bringing us along?
clay		Why do you think?
mary		 I don't know. I thought I did. Now I'm not sure. I thought it had something to do with me.
clay		Oh, it did. It had a great deal to do with you.
mary		Just how do you mean that?
clay		You know so much about me -- figure it out.
mary		So that's it --  You think I was making fun of your girl in gingham.
mary's voice		I wasn't. And I wasn't making fun of you or your dream.
mary's voice		Of course, maybe I was trying to get you to do something you didn't want to do.
clay		You wouldn't do a thing like that, would you?
mary		 Yes. But -- that was the other night. Now -- I don't think I would.
clay		That's the West Walker. Take it easy now.
fowler's voice		Hold it!
fowler		What are you doin' on this trail?
clay		Followin' it. Any reason I shouldn't?
fowler		My name's Fowler. I'm camped up a ways.
clay		Clay Phillips of Aspen. Been havin' trouble?
fowler		Nope. But I don't want any.
clay		Neither do we. That's why we took this trail instead of the main road, and drove all night.
fowler		You're welcome to use my camp.
mary		We might as well start a fire.
helen		Go ahead.  Get in training for the pioneer life. I'm finding the nearest body of water and climbing into it.
mary		Got a light?
steve		 Want the wagon unloaded, Clay?
clay		 Just the grub box and bed rolls.
steve		I -- I think it'll be swell.
clay		When you get older you'll understand things better. Like women and men. Just because a man kisses a woman, doesn't always mean -- well, he can kiss her and not want to -- have her around all the time.
clay		We got a lot to do, you and I. Gettin' that ranch started and everything. We've been getting along fine, all these years. For a while I want to keep it the way it is.
clay		Take that in and help her get breakfast, will you?
fowler's voice		 What are you doing down here?
fowler		 You got no business snoopin' around --
helen		 Me snoopin'? I came down here to take a bath.
helen		That something I shouldn't see?
fowler		 No. But it's mine and I didn't want anyone foolin' with it.
helen		What is it?
fowler		Just a thing I was workin' on.
helen		The way you act, it must be something pretty secret.
fowler		Go on. Take your bath. I'll beat it.
helen		You wouldn't have a smoke on you, would you?
helen		Thanks.
fowler		That sure smells good.
helen		I like it.
fowler		Up here in the hills, a man gets a hankering to smell powder.
helen		Then why stay in the hills.
helen		That why?
fowler		I guess you can keep a secret. That's a gold rocker. I'm doin' a little placer mining in a place nobody ever thought to look for gold before.
fowler		Look at her -- see her shine. One week's work.
mary		 Roll me a cigarette, Clay.
mary		Thanks.
mary		Why didn't you wake me?
mary		You should have. I don't like leaving things unfinished.
clay		 Maybe it's better that way.
mary		 You don't mean that Clay.
mary		 Tell me, darling.
clay		What?
mary		What does a man usually tell a girl?
mary		Tell me -- please --
mary		All right you don't love me. So let it go at that.
clay		What did you expect? Speeches I don't mean?
mary		I don't expect anything. A minute ago I hadn't cuite waked up.
mary		I'm awake now. Go on. Say what you want to say. I'll listen.
clay		If it's pretty speeches you want, you won't be hearing them. Even when I mean 'em, they don't come easy.
mary		Save 'em for the girl in gingham. Just tell me I'm not good enough for you. Go on. Say a woman like me can't change.
clay		All right -- it's said!
mary		Then let's get started. The sooner I get to Sonora, the better I'll like it.
helen		You're sure there's more where this came from?
fowler		Plenty more.  And somewhere up there's the lode, the rock rotten with it.
helen		Pretty, isn't it? And all you have to do is shovel sand into a thing and the river does the work.
mary		 Give it back to him. We're leavin'.
helen		Maybe you are. I'm not.
helen		I'm stayin' here with Jed.
fowler		 I figure we'll get along just fine.
helen		Well cheer, why don't you? No more responsibilities, Mary. Marcia -- Elaine -- me -- all taken care of. Down there feeding horses and raising kids, you won't have a thing to worry about.
mary		I'm not raising horses or kids for anybody. I'm opening the slickest gambling house in California with a crystal chandelier, the biggest you ever saw --
mary		-- Gaslights and a dance floor and a big bar. Cash registers with bells and a couple of boys with armbands just to keep 'em ringing. What do you think of that?
helen		Sounds fine. Only that isn't how it's going to be.
helen		I'm sure of this. But not of you.  You won't open any joint. I've been watching you change. You're mad now and you think you can change back. But you can't. You'll end up making beds in a boarding house.
mary		 That's it then.
fowler		 That's it. She's staying with me -- for keeps.
mary		If there were more men like you, there wouldn't be so many of us.
fowler		Thanks.
mary		It's nice to meet a man who doesn't want to own a woman from the day she was born. I never had the luck. The only kind I've run into were tramps or dirty-minded hypocrites.
clay		 Want to know why I changed my mind about bringing you? Because I talked to Elaine -- because I was afraid to leave you with decent people, that's why. And you'll open your joint all right. You wouldn't fit anywhere else.
clay		Let's round up the horses.
clay		 Come on -- we don't want to keep the people in Sonora waiting.
helen		Mary, Honey. I talked too much, like always -- he thinks you told Elaine the things I told her.
mary		 I don't care what he thinks.
steve		Clay -- look!
clay		Mary --
clay		 Are you all right?
mary		 No, I'm not all right. I'm soaked and I hit myself against that rock.
clay		 I suppose that's my fault.
mary		 All my clothes --
clay		That's right -- worry about your clothes --
clay		What about my wagon. Of all the crazy fool things to do. You lose a man's wagon because you're stupid and then yell about your clothes.
mary		For the wagon.
mary		Go on, take it. Then you can't spend the rest of the trip expecting to get paid.
clay		 There won't be any rest of the trip. Over the hill is a stage road and when we hit it you get dumped into the first stage that comes along. So keep your money. You'll need it for the fare. I'm fed up with you. I was fed up with you before we started.
clay		Don't just stand there. Go on back and get the packs on the horses. We've lost all the time we're going to because of a woman.
clay		Come on. Didn't you hear me?
mccall		We got company. Female company.
lednov		 Yeah, we sure have.
helen		You can put this out of the way, Jed. It's empty.
fowler		 What do you want?
lednov		I saw your fire and dropped by to say hello.
fowler		Well, say it.
lednov		What's the matter -- restless?
fowler		Yes, people make me restless.
lednov		Even women?
fowler		There aren't any women here.
lednov		I suppose that's your wagon in the river.
fowler		Some people who went by this way lost it.  Two men and some women. They packed their stuff on horses and went on.
lednov		And you're all alone.
fowler		Yeah.
lednov		Suppose I take a look.
fowler		Go ahead.
mccall		Looking for something?
lednov		Hold it, Mac.
lednov's voice		Get up.
lednov		Come on. Where'd the women go?
lednov		When I ask questions, I like to hear answers.
fowler		They went on like I told you.
lednov's voice		How long ago?
fowler		Five, six hours.
lednov		Sit down.  All right, Peters, come on over here.
lednov		 So you were all alone.
peters		 You keep your hands off.
helen		 Let him alone!
helen		Kick a guy, would you! You scum! You won't do any kickin' when they come back.
helen		You dirty murderers... killin' people when they're sleepin'...
lednov		How do you know who we are?
helen		Everybody knows --
lednov		 Who brought you here?
lednov		You said somebody was comin' back -- who's comin' back?
helen		 Stop it --
helen		Clay Phillips.
lednov		Where is he?
helen		Up the trail.
lednov		How far up the trail?
helen		 I don't know -- I don't know.
peters		 You didn't have to do that.
lednov		 Why not? She might have got to Clay Phillips before I did.
steve		Are you all right?
mary		For the last ten miles I've been trying to figure out how to sleep sitting up. I'm getting to the point where I don't think there's any place named Sonora.
steve		It's a long ways yet.  I figure we ought to camp. She's tired.
clay		So am I and so are the horses.
clay		 Take the packs off. And run the horses into the corral.
clay		I said take the packs off.
clay		 I figure we'll make better time, letting the horses rest for a spell.
clay		So grab yourself some sleep while you have the chance.
mary		If you want to go on, I can make it all right.
clay		Like I said, I was thinkin' of the horses.
steve		You stretch out. I'll fix something to eat.
mary		 Thanks, Steve.
clay		 If you want 'em to find us, why don't you go up on the hill and wave your shirt or fire your rifle.
steve		I didn't stop to think, Clay.
clay		 You better start.
steve		Maybe you and me better split up when we hit Sonora.
clay		 All right, I hurt your feelings. But you know better than to go lightin' fires.
steve		That ain't why. I just figure it's about time to start runnin' my own life.
clay		Maybe you're not hungry, but I am.
clay		Come on. We got a couple hours to eat and get some sleep.
steve		I'll eat when I'm good and ready.
clay		Kind of feeling your oats this morning. I haven't laid a hand on you for quite a while, but that doesn't mean you're too old.
steve		What makes you think you're so almighty? Telling people what to do and how to act when you don't even know how yourself.
steve		You ain't even man enough to own up when you're wrong.
steve		Go on, hit me.
clay		Sit down and eat. Till I say the word, you're doing what you're told.
steve		You oughta say you're sorry -- that's what you oughta do.
clay		You keep your nose out of my life, young fella.
steve		Maybe I haven't lived as long as you have, but I know a sight more about people and I wouldn't talk to a mule like you talked to her and, if I did, I'd say how sorry I was. I'd be man enough to do that.
clay		I said keep your nose out of my life. No kid is going to tell me how to run it.
steve		You think you're so slmighty -- smart -- Who are you to sit up there and say nobody's good enough for you, like you said yesterday -- just because a man kisses a woman --
steve's voice		-- doesn't mean he wants to marry her.
steve		Well, if you didn't mean it, why did you kiss her?
clay		Shut up and eat.
mary		 Stop it -- both of you.
mary		I won't have you fighting over me.
clay		 I'm sorry.
steve		You don't know what it is to be sorry.
mary		 Steve --
mary		 Mind sortin' out my things -- I'm leaving.
mary		Maybe it isn't going to Sonora, but it's going somewhere, which is all right with me.
clay		It's going to Sonora.
mary		Fine -- maybe I'll see you there sometime.
mary		Because as you said, that's where I belong.
clay		I said a lot of things -- some of 'em --
mary		Some of 'em you didn't mean but most of 'em you did. I don't blame you because I understand your way of thinking and why you think that way. You want your women on pedestals. But they have to be born on 'em -- they can fall off but they can't climb back up.
clay		 I can't help how I think. You're trained a certain way when you're a kid and you can't change.
clay		If you're gonna catch this stage, come on.
mary		I can't change either. Not unless somebody wants me enough to give me a hand.
clay		Hurry up.
mary		 I'm fool enough to believe that one of these days somebody will. Somebody who wants me as I am will maybe walk into the place where I'm working and take me out of there.
clay		Maybe they will.
clay		Mind giving a lady a lift into town?
driver		 Climb right in.
clay		Will you be seeing the sheriff?
driver		Depot's right next to his office.
steve		 Goodbye, ma'am.
mary		 Goodbye, Steve. Don't fight with him any more.
mary		It's not his fault, just you remember that. It's mine. Don't ask me why because you couldn't understand now. Some day you will.
mary		Goodbye. Thanks for the lift.
clay		Goodbye, Mary.
mary		By the way, if you ever go past the Wyatt ranch, have another talk with Elaine.
steve		You know what she asked me?
clay		I don't care what she asked you.
steve		She told me not to fight with you anymore. She said it wasn't your fault, but -- I figure different...
steve		It is so your fault and... and I guess maybe when we hit the ranch... you andme better...
clay		 You want to split up? --
clay		-- Why wait? Go on, saddle up now and beat it.
steve		Half of them are mine.
clay		 You'll get your share. Go on. I don't want you around.
clay		There you are.
clay		What did you come back for?
steve		Like I told you, half those horses are mine. I'm makin' sure they get to the ranch safe. So let's quit arguing and do whatever you figure on doin'.
clay		 Is that the only reason you came back?
steve		 Sure. What other reason would there be?
clay		 I just wondered. Let's go.
lednov		 Go on down and have a look.
peters		 And get my head blown off! Not me.
mccall		Call it.
peters		Heads.
lednov		And you! Get going.
clay		 Stick here.
lednov		 Come on out, Phillips.
lednov		 Those horses down there -- they don't amount to much to me. Look at the one with the bell.
lednov		 Next time I won't miss.
lednov's voice		 Watch the one with the white face.
clay's voice		I'm here Lednov.
clay		Come on out.
lednov's voice		Come and get me.
clay		 How's that?
steve		Kind of sore.
clay		You'll live.
steve		 Guess maybe I'm old enough to hold my own in a fight, huh?
clay		Yeah -- but don't make a habit of it.
steve		So -- maybe I'm old enough to tell you how to run your life?
clay		 I guess so -- but don't make a habit of it.
steve		Well, then, I know it takes three -- four weeks for you to come round to admit when you're wrong... But by that time she's liable to be in China...
doctor		 Hold her steady. I'm not hurting him.
steve		Maybe you're not, but I'll sure be glad when you stop pokin' me.
mary		Is it very bad?
doctor		 Course not. A scratch.
doctor		What are you doin' here?
mary		Holding the lamp.
doctor		Then hold it a little lower.
clay		Thanks for taking over.
mary		 Thanks for loading me on the stage. I know now why you did it.
clay		Like I said, women get in the way sometimes.
steve's voice		He tried to get rid of me, too, Miss Wells.
doctor		Keep still, will you.
doctor		Put him over there on the cot. Goodnight... He'll be all right.
mary		Goodnight.
steve		Goodnight, Miss Wells.
mary		 If you need me, I'll be --
clay		Where you going?
mary		To the other side of the street.
clay		Mary.
clay		That job you were talkin' about, did you get it yet?
mary		Why?
clay		 Because... well, you said you wanted a man to think enough of you to walk in the place you were working and take you out of there... tonight I was sort of tied up with Steve... but tomorrow I figured on doing just that.
mary		 I haven't got the job yet.
mary		But if you want to wait until tomorrow --
clay		 Is there any place in town a man could buy some gingham?
****Dialogues from script :Ruins.txt****

stacy		We should play War. It's more fun. Jeff takes a card from his hand, lays it down on the table.
jeff		That's not even a game.
stacy		Sure it is. I'll teach you. She starts-to fold her hand,'but Jeff shakes his head.
jeff		I know how to play. I mean it's just chance--there's no skill involved.
stacy		But I keep losing.
jeff		'Cause you're not concentrating.
stacy		I wouldn't have to concentrate if we played War.
jeff		Exactly. So where's the fun?
stacy		I'd win sometimes. It's not fun if we both can't win.
jeff		But it's not winning if it's just chance.
stacy		Of course it is. If we flipped a coin, and I called heads, and it--
eric		Fuck..;this.. shit.
stacy		Maybe you should just be honest, sweetie.
amy		Why would they hire you if you haven't read the books?
eric		I said I had.
jeff		So maybe you should..
eric		 The Canterbury Tales? You ever look at that shit?
jeff		I've read it.
eric		Fuck off. It's not even English. Jeff watches Stacy take another card; she examines it, sets it on the discard pile. Then, RECITING:
jeff		This world nys but a thurghfare ful of wo, and we been pilgrymes, passing to and fro. Deeth is an ende of every worldly soore.
amy		I'm fine. I've got a base.
jeff		You're burning. I can see it. She finally opens her eyes, lifts her head, peers at her shoulders. She presses at the pink skin.
any		I'm just flushed. It's too hot. Stacy leans forward, picks a second card off the deck. Jeff is focused on Amy; he doesn't notice.
jeff		You're hot because you're burning.
amy		It's only been-- Stacy interrupts, speaking in a slightly SINGSONG fashion:
stacy		So there was this king, who lived in a castle. Amy turns, gives her a pained look.
amy		Please don't.
eric		But what he really wanted was a beach house.
amy		Stop it. Both of you. Right now. They ignore her, ping-ponging quickly back and forth:
stacy		So he decided to move.
eric		But the Queen didn't want to.
stacy		So he left by himself.
eric		But he got lonely. Amy covers her ears with her hands, blocking out their voices, but then inmiediately reaches to feel for her earrings: one of them is missing.
amy		Shit.
stacy		So he bought a dog.
eric		But it had fleas.
amy		I lost my earring.
stacy		So he gave it a bath.
eric		But the dog caught. cold. Amy sits up, glancing about. Stacy and Eric keep going:
stacy		So he gave it some medicine.
eric		But it was the wrong kind.
stacy		So the dog died. Amy rises, steps toward the pool. Jeff lays down his cards, joins her beside the water. They both peer into it.
amy		Thank you so much. .Mathias nods. He starts to turn, as if to swim off, but Jeff stops him:
jeff		Wait. . .want a beer? He waves toward their chairs, the cooler beside them.
eric		We went sailing yesterday. Out toward Cozumel? And there were these seven foot fish, these huge--
jeff		Nurse sharks.
eric		 Like thirty of them. A whole, you know, flock.
jeff		School.
eric		The water was, I don't know, ten feet deep? And they were lying on the bottom, just waiting for somebody to come swimming by--
jeff		They're not dangerous. Eric turns, stares at Jeff.
eric		You said they're sharks.
jeff		But they're not dangerous. They eat lobsters. Sea urchins. That sort of thing. Eric considers this, frowning. Then he takes a sip of beer. He shrugs, turns back toward Mathias.
eric		I wouldn't be snorkeling on my own.' That's all I'm saying.
mathias		I wasn't on my own. I was with my brother. Jeff glances around the pool.
jeff		He's here? Mathias shakes his head.
mathias		He met a girl. They went away.
jeff		To?
mathias		It's a complicated story. They watch him, waiting for more, but nothing comes. Finally:
eric		You should hang with us, then. If you're on your own.  Right? Everyone nods, smiling. Eric reaches into the cooler, pulls out another beer, holds it toward Mathias.
amy		Dance. Eric smiles, as if the idea of Jeff dancing were absurd.
eric		Jeff doesn't dance, Amy--he has no rhythm. Of all his many gifts, rhythm is not one.
amy		That's not true. He played the trombone in high school. He won a prize. Eric seems startled by this, amused.
eric		Seriously? Amy nods. She drains her beer, tosses the cup aside.
amy		Jeff's won prizes for everything. His Mom has a whole room built just for them. Trophies and ribbons and plaques. He's a very accomplished young man. (she holds out her hand-to
eric		 I don't dance on sand. Stacy makes a SNORTING sound.
stacy		Or grass. Or cement. Or carpet.
eric		I dance on teak.
amy		Teak?
eric		It's a type of wood. Very rare. Find me a teak floor and I'll be a dancing fool. Amy shifts toward Mathias, holds out her hand. He stares at it, then glances at Jeff. Before he can speak, Stacy pushes herself to her feet; she's almost as wobbly as Amy.
stacy		I'll dance.
jeff		I'm gonna head back. Eric gives him a look of disappointment,
eric		You're kidding. Jeff seems STARTLED by this:
jeff		What?
eric		How long is med school? Four years? Jeff nods. ERIC  He's gonna be grinding away all that time. Sleepless. Fucking miserable. And know what? He's gonna look back on this night, us right here, and he's gonna say to himself, shit, I wish I'd--
jeff		Gone to bed earlier. Eric stares at him; this wasn't the direction he was heading. JEFF  If I'm gonna be so short on sleep, I should get as.much as I can now, don't you think? He stands up, brushes the sand from his shorts. Eric shrugs, lifts his cup toward him.
eric		All work and no play--
jeff		Makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise. With that, Jeff nods good night to them, then starts off toward the hotel. Eric and Mathias turn back toward the bonfire. They sit in silence, watching the girls dance. After a moment, Amy staggers away from the other dancers, toward a group of young men, drinking together in the shadows. She reaches down, pulls one of them to his feet, starts to drag him back toward the bonfire. The young man is tall, with long blond hair. He LAUGHS, tries to free himself, but Amy is insistent; she keeps pulling at him, and finally he surrenders. They begin to dance. Stacy is dancing on her own, eyes shut, oblivious. Mathias glances toward Eric. Eric shrugs.
eric		Amy drifts sometimes, when she drinks.
mathias		Drifts?
eric		Like a boat--she bumps into other boats. They continue to watch. Amy and her partner's dancing is becoming steadily more intimate, the gap between their bodies narrowing, then disappearing altogether. Finally, Eric pushes himself to his feet.' ERIC  Come on. Let's save everyone some grief. He starts. forward, followed by Mathias. They join Stacy and Amy, and Eric subtly interrupts Amy's pas de deux. The blond- haired young man disengages, drifts back toward his friends.
mathias		I have to catch a bus.
jeff		To? Mathias slides the sheet of paper toward him. Jeff bends to look. There's a paragraph in German scrawled above a hand- drawn map, with four place names: Cancun, Valladolid, Tizimin, Coba. A large X has been drawn to the west of Coba.
mathias		The girl my brother met was on her way to this place, to work.  Our flight leaves the day after tomorrow. I can wait and hope he returns in time.. Or I can go get him. It's a question of trusting him to do the right thing.
jeff		And you don't?
mathias		Henrich doesn't think things through. He runs at them. He's... (he searches, shakes his
jeff		impetuous?
mathias		 So I have to be--
jeff		Responsible.
mathias		All our lives, the same story. Jeff.slides the map back toward him.
jeff		It's what? One of those pyramids?
mathias		 An old mining camp.
jeff		De oro? 0 plata? Mathias just stares at him. JEFF  So how will you find this place?
mathias		 Follow the m ap. Jeff frowns down at the map for a long beat. It seems as if he's going to question the feasibility of this, but. then he disengages instead, wiping at the sweat on his face.
jeff		Well, good luck.
jeff		You okay? Amy doesn't answer. She COUGHS, spits. JEFF  You don't have to come, you know.
amy		I'm fine.
jeff		You don't look fine.
amy		Thank you. That's very helpful.
jeff		We'll be back by nightfall. You can just-- Amy is raising the brush to her mouth, but she stops, gives Jeff a look in the mirror.
amy		You don't want me to come?
jeff		That's not what I'm saying.
amy		So what're you saying?
jeff		You're hungover, under slept,
amy		I'm not sunburned. Jeff stares at her, the deep red of her face. Then he shrugs, steps out of the tub, the towel around his waist.
jeff		.All right. My mistake. Amy bends over the sink, starts to brush her teeth.
jeff		Pants. Amy stops, the shorts around her ankles.
amy		I'll get too sweaty.
jeff		There's gonna be mosquitoes. He picks up a knapsack, steps to the mini-fridge, opens its door. Amy stares down at the khakis for a beat, then drops back onto the bed. She lies there, looking up at the ceiling, her shorts still caught around her ankles.
amy		We don't even know this guy. Jeff slides two bottles of iced tea into the knapsack. There's a plastic shopping bag beside the fridge, and he starts to dig through it.
jeff		And?
amy		I just don't see why we have to go with him.
jeff		If you and I were traveling together, somewhere you didn't speak the language, and I'd vanished somehow, wouldn't you want someone to help find me?
amy		Why would you vanish? Jeff turns, looks at her: this isn't the point.
jeff		Aren't you getting bored? Honestly. The beach, the pool, the beach, the pool. This'll be fun. An adventure. Jeff pulls two protein bars from the bag, a box of raisins, a plastic bag full of grapes; he drops them into the knapsack. JEFF  You said you wanted to go;hiking, didn't you? See the ruins. Amy is silent, unmoving, clearly not swayed.
amy		Why do you keep saying that?
amy		It's like you'd rather I didn't-- A KNOCKING at the door, and she falls silent. Jeff rises, zipping shut the knapsack. He steps to the door, opens it. Stacy and Eric are in the hall.
eric		Ready? The both answer at the same time:
jeff amy		Amy's having second thoughts. Jeff doesn't want me to go. Stacy and Eric are silent; neither wants to get involved in this. A beat, then Jeff SIGHS, glances at his watch.
jeff		Now or never, Any. .We're gonna miss the bus. Amy gives a loud GROAN, sits up, reaches for her khakis.
eric		Now what? Mathias has his brother's note. He holds it out, pointing, and they gather around him to look.
mathias		We take a cab. To here. WE SEE the map: there's a line drawn from Cancun to Coba, where another, shorter line moves westward. Mathias's finger moves along this shorter line, toward the X on the map.
eric		How far?
mathias		Eighteen kilometers.
stacy		How many miles is that? They all glance at Jeff. He shrugs.
jeff		Eleven. A little more.
mathias		Then there'll be a path. Which we hike--four kilometers. The others look to Jeff again. He slings his pack.
jeff		Two and a half miles.
any		I don't see any cabs. The bus eases into motion, CRUNCHING across the gravel, pulling out onto the road. Behind it, a yellow pickup truck is revealed. "TAXI" is hand-painted in black on its side. They start toward the truck. Its DRIVER is Mayan: short and heavy-set, with thick glasses. His eyes are shut; he's dozing behind the wheel. The truck's engine.is running, the windows shut tight against the heat. Jeff TAPS the window, and there's a burst of movement from the truck's rear, as a dog springs up, BARKING and GROWLING. They all leap back, the girls SHRIEKING. The dog is a mutt--small, but muscular. He's attached to a cinder block by a short chain, which he throws himself against, slobbering, snapping at the air. They all stare at the dog; the girls LAUGH nervously, clutching each other. The driver has roused himself; he leans forward, rolls down his window, stares out at them.
jeff		Hola. The man gives him a somber nod; the dog keeps BARKING. Jeff takes the map from Mathias, then steps warily forward. JEFF  How much to drive us to here? He offers the map to the driver, who reaches to take it. The man frowns at it. Then, in HEAVILY ACCENTED ENGLISH:
driver		Why you go this place? Jeff struggles for a simple way to explain their mission. in the back of the truck, the dog continues its frantic BARRING.
jeff		There are these ruins. This old mining camp?
driver		Fifteen dollar, I take you ruins.
jeff		To here? Jeff points at the map. The driver shakes his head.
driver		This place no good. He holds the map back out toward Jeff. Jeff takes it, gives the man a puzzled look.
jeff		No good?
driver		No good you go. Fifteen dollar I take you good place. You like, I promise. Jeff glances toward the others, as if for help. They all just stand there, watching. The dog won't stop BARRING. DRIVER  I take you pyramid. Huy grande. Everyone happy. He smiles at Jeff; his teeth are large and thick-looking,. and black along the gums. Jeff pulls out his wallet. He removes a ten and a five, then points at the map.
jeff		How about we pay you fifteen dollars to go here? He holds the money out. The man doesn't even look at it.
driver		I tell you no good. Still you go? His smile has disappeared; he seems angry suddenly, as if Jeff has somehow insulted him. Jeff hesitates, glancing toward the others again. Then, in a CONCILIATORY TONE:
jeff		We're looking for his brother.  Su hermano?
driver		El dinero. Jeff gives him the money. Then the driver SLAPS the side of the truck, gestures for them to climb into the back.
jeff		Gracias, senor! The driver doesn't even look at him; he just pulls out onto the road, heading back in the direction from which they came. There are mosquitoes; Stacy starts to slap at herself. Jeff unslings his pack, pulls out a can of insect repellent. JEFF  Here. He begins to spray her, then Eric. Amy is peering off after the truck. They can still hear the dog's BARKING, but very faintly now. Jeff finishes with Eric, starts in on Mathias.
amy		How do we get back? She points back down the road, toward the vanished truck. Jeff pauses in his spraying, considers for a moment. Then:
jeff		The guidebook said you can always flag down a passing bus. So I--
amy		There aren't going to be any buses on that road. Jeff nods; this seems obvious. He resumes spraying Mathias. Eric and Stacy stand there, watching. AMY  A bus couldn't even fit.
jeff		It also said you can hitch--
amy		See any cars pass, Jeff? Jeff doesn't answer. He steps toward her, starts to spray her, too. She holds out her arms. AMY  The whole time we were driving, you see even one?
stacy		Eric has his phone. Can't we just call someone?
amy		He's not gonna get a signal. Not way out here. They all turn to watch as Eric reaches into. his pack, pulls out his cell phone, flips it open. He stares at it for a beat, then shakes his head, snaps it shut. Jeff finishes spraying Amy, starts in on himself.
jeff		They must-have a way to get supplies in.
amy		Who?
jeff		The archaeologists. They must have a truck. Or access to a truck. When we find Mathias's brother, we can just ask them to take us all back to Coba.  Right? Mathias seems startled by the question.
mathias		I guess ...I mean, I-- He shrugs; he has no idea. Amy is still focused on Jeff:
amy		We're stranded, aren't we? That's, like, a twenty mile walk we're gonna have to do. Through the jungle.
jeff		Eleven.
amy		What? Jeff finishes with the insect repellent, crouches to slide the can back into his pack.
jeff		It's eleven miles.
amy		There's no way that was eleven miles.
jeff		Let's just find this place, okay? Then we can figure out how to get back. Amy is silent. Jeff turns to the others. JEFF  Ready? Mathias and Eric nod, and the boys start down the path. Amy stands there, watching them go. Stacy steps toward her.'
stacy		Just go with it, honey. You'll see--it'll all work out. She hooks arms with her, pulls her into motion.
stacy		So-there was this girl who bought a piano. Amy gives a loud MOAN.
eric		But she didn't know how to play.
stacy		So she signed up for lessons.
eric		But she couldn't afford them. Stacy reaches, taps Mathias's shoulder.
stacy		You can play, too. If you want.
eric		But was fired for being late. Amy takes off her hat, wipes the sweat from her face.
amy		It's annoying.
stacy		So she became a prostitute.
amy		It's tedious and boring. And once they start, it's impossible to get them to stop.
eric		But she fell in love with her first client. Amy puts her hat back on. She looks hot, sweaty, tired.
amy		How much farther? Mathias peers down at his brother's note. Stacy and Eric continue with their game.
mathias stacy		We cross a stream. Then So she asked him to marry there'll be a path, branching her. off to our left. If we see a village, we've gone too far. AMY  ERIC A village? But he was already married.
mathias stacy		A Mayan village. So she begged him to get a divorce. AMY  ERIC Will they have air But he was in love with his conditioning? wife.
mathias stacy		It just says there's a So she decided to kill her. village. AMY  I think we should go see it.
stacy		Me, too.
amy		I think we should--- Jeff stops suddenly, pointing.
jeff		The stream. Thirty feet in front of them, the trail dips toward a small stream, studded with boulders. It resumes on the far bank, rising gradually uphill in a long straightaway. The stream is slow moving, the water dark brown. Eric SNIFFS the air.
eric		Fucking smells.
jeff		They must use it as a latrine.
eric		Who?
jeff		The village. The Mayans. They start toward it, gingerly, the girls covering their noses. Jeff crosses the stream, hopping from boulder to boulder, and the others follow. Stacy almost falls in; she only catches her balance at the final instant, YELPING. Jeff is already starting up the trail, searching for the turnoff. There's no sign of it; the dense foliage extends unbroken as far as the eye can see. He turns to Mathias. JEFF  How far past the stream?.
mathias		Right after, it says.
amy		Look. Up the trail, sixty feet away, stand two small Mayan boys; they seem to have materialized out of the air. They're ten years old, shirtless, scrawny, dark-haired. one of them is holding a bicycle by its handlebars; it doesn't have a seat. AMY  Maybe they can guide us. Stacy smiles toward the boys; she waves, CALLS OUT:
holal		The boys just stand there, staring at them, silent, their expressions wary, even frightened. One of them leans to whisper something to the other, who nods.
eric		Why don't we-- He stops, noticing Mathias. The German is staring toward the edge of the trail, where a large bush sits. one of its fronds is very slowly dropping toward them, pulling itself free of the soil. Mathias steps forward, tugs at a second frond, which slips easily from the dirt. He tosses it aside, reaches for another frond: this, too, slips free. Someone has pushed them into the earth, arranging them to look like a bush. Mathias pulls a fourth frond free, then a fifth, and an opening is revealed in the brush, a narrow path winding its way off through the trees. They stand there a beat, staring at it. Then there's a SQUEAKING SOUND, and they all turn.
amy		Why was it covered? Jeff lifts his hands: how should he know?
stacy		Maybe it's not the right path. NO one speaks. They keep staring from the boy to the newly revealed path, trying to make sense of it. WE can still HEAR the squeaking of the bicycle, growing steadily fainter.
jeff		It's on the map.
amy		It's a hand-drawn map, Jeff.
stacy		And it was hidden. Why would it be hidden? Jeff steps forward, shields his eyes, tries to peer into the dimness of the narrow path. Then he glances back toward the little boy, who continues to stand there, watching them.
jeff		Maybe the archaeologists don't want people to find the mine.
amy		Because? Jeff has to think. Finally:
jeff		Maybe they've dug up something valuable. Emeralds or something. Or silver. Whatever they were mining in the first place. And they don't want anyone to come rob them. So they've asked the Mayans to help keep people away. He falls into silence, staring at the boy. No one appears very convinced by his theory, not even Jeff. He shrugs. JEFF  How much farther is it? Mathias takes the map from his pocket again, glances at it.
mathias		Not far.
jeff		Be silly to stop now, don't you think? No one answers; no one moves.
any		This just feels weird, Jeff. Jeff SIGHS, fighting to suppress his impatience with her.
jeff		So we what? Turn around? Walk all the way back to Coba? Silence. They all turn to stare back down the trail, then toward the Mayan boy, who's still watching them. Stacy SLAPS a mosquito, leaving a bloody smear on her bare arm. Jeff lifts his hand, gestures at the path.leading into the trees. JEFF  Come on. We're almost there. The others glance at one another, waiting for someone to argue; no one does. Finally, Mathias steps forward, slipping through the narrow opening. Eric follows him, and then, with just the slightest hesitation, so do Amy and Stacy. Jeff throws one last glance toward the boy--who's still standing there, sixty feet away, watching with his anxious expression--and then he, too, vanishes into the trees.
eric		Maybe the ruins are sacred. You know? And they don't want people digging them up. He glances about, off into the trees, a little spooked. ERIC  We could be walking through some sort of ancient graveyard right now. And they've--
jeff		It's a mine. An old mining camp.
eric		So?
jeff		There's nothing sacred about it. Eric considers this as they walk. The others are also quiet: too hot to speak. The sunlight falls through the trees in thin, shifting columns, hazed with mosquitoes.
eric		Maybe it leads to a marijuana field, then. Maybe the village is growing pot, and that boy rode off to get them, and they're gonna come with guns and--
amy		Eric.
eric		What?
amy		Shut up, okay? Eric falls silent. They follow the path as it curves first right, then left, moving gradually uphill all the while, and suddenly there's sunlight in front of them, bright and intense: a clearing. They hesitate at its edge, staring.
stacy		It's beautiful.
amy		So beautiful.
stacy		And the mosquitoes are gone. You realize that? They've stopped biting. She smiles at the others, delighted by this development. Amy removes the cap from her camera, starts to take pictures.
mathias		Is that a tent? He points.
jeff		A horse. It's true: HOOFBEATS are approaching at a gallop. Instinctively, Jeff and the others back a handful of steps toward the hill. A long. beat, then a horseman bursts into the clearing, rearing to a halt. Amy lifts her camera.
stacy		What's he saying?
eric		Maybe he wants money? A toll or something? The Mayan continues SHOUTING, waving his arm. Jeff reaches into his pocket, pulls out his wallet, removes a twenty.
jeff		Dinero? The man ignores the proffered bill, makes a shooing motion, waving them from the clearing. Mathias turns toward the hill, cups his hands around his mouth, SHOUTS:
henrichi		There's no response, just the orange fabric gently billowing.
jeff		Why don't you hike up, see if you can find him? We'll try to sort this out. Mathias nods, starts across the clearing. The bald man SHOUTS at him in Mayan, and then, when Mathias doesn't stop, pulls his pistol from its holster, FIRES into the sky. Everyone flinches, half-ducking. Stacy SCREAMS. Mathias goes still. The man waves at him, YELLING in Mayan, and Mathias comes back, his hands raised, to join the others. HOOFBEATS are approaching from the jungle again. They come closer and closer, and suddenly two more horsemen burst into the clearing. They're younger than the bald mans in their twenties, dark-haired, muscular. One has a mustache. Their mounts are white-eyed, SNORTING, rearing, just like the bald man's. The two men jump to the ground, dropping their reins, and the horses immediately turn and gallop back into the jungle. Amy lifts her camera again.
eric		What the fuck?
jeff		Quiet.
jeff		Wait. Wait and see. Amy is a bit farther into the clearing than Jeff and the others. She keeps swinging her camera from them to the Mayans, trying to capture the whole scene in one shot. She's too close, though,-and she retreats another handful of steps.
jeff		Don't move. The bald man continues to frown and shake his head. He points to Amy, then the others; he waves toward the jungle. But the young men are implacable--they keep arguing, gesturing--and finally the bald man gives in, falls SILENT. A beat, then the bald man raises his pistol, aims it at Jeff's chest. He makes a shooing motion with his other hand, but now it's toward Amy, and the hill beyond her. He begins to SHOUT; the other men do, too. Then the bald man FIRES a bullet into the dirt at Jeff's feet. Everyone jumps, starts to retreat. The men with the bows are swinging them back and forth, herding them toward the hill. When Jeff and the others reach Amy, the bald man points toward the trail, waves them up it. He watches--his expression looking stricken, close to tears--as the five of them obediently begin to climb the vine-covered hill.
jeff		Check your phone, Eric. Eric pulls out his phone, flips it open, stares at it.
eric		Nothing.. He snaps it shut. They stand there: sweating, scared looking. Mathias cups his hands to his mouth again, SHOUTS:
mathias		Henrich...I They all peer up the hill, waiting for a response.
eric		There's another one. He points toward the clearing below them.
eric		Let's run back down. Quick. While there's just him and the kid. We can rush them.
stacy		He's got a gun, Eric. This silences Eric--silences all of them. Mathias turns, SHOUTS toward the tent again.
mathias		Henrich...1 There's no answer. They wait another beat, then Jeff waves them back into motion.
jeff		Hello...? SILENCE. The vine covers everything but the trail and the clearing. We glimpse more rubble beneath its greenery: time- worn stelae, a low stone wall. In some places the vine folds back upon itself, forming waist- high mounds, tangled knoll-like profusions of green. And everywhere, hanging off it, are those bright red flowers. Mathias moves toward the orange tent, and Jeff follows him. They UNZIP its flap, stoop to peer inside.
eric		What's inside?
jeff		Nothing. Some camping supplies. Mathias starts across the clearing toward the blue tent, followed by Jeff and the others. He UNZIPS its flap, sticks his head inside. Jeff leans to look, too.
amy		The mine? Jeff nods. A draft is rising from the hole, and it lifts off Amy's hat. She tries to catch it, but fumbles: the hat falls away from her. They all watch it vanish into the dark. Eric pulls out his phone, flips it open, almost absentmindedly: a nervous gesture. There's still no signal. He closes it, turns to survey the clearing, the empty tents.
eric		Now what? Jeff shrugs, waves past the shaft. The clearing ends just a few yards from them;
jeff		Keep going, I guess. Saying this, he slings his pack onto his shoulder. Then he starts forward, the others falling in behind him.
stacy		What do we do? Jeff shrugs, starts forward again.
jeff		We'll see. The others hesitate, and then, one after another, resume their downward march.
amy		So. Her skin is slick with sweat, and she's winded from the hike down. A third Mayan comes jogging toward them. He stops beside the other two, draws his bow.
eric		We should rush them. All at once.
stacy		Shut Up, Eric.
eric		Or go make shields. If we had some shields, we could-- He falls silent as another Mayan comes running toward them. along the clearing. This one is bearded, heavier than the others. And he's carrying a rifle.
any		Oh my god. Jeff is staring at the little isolated island of vines, ten feet in front of them--peering intently at it.
stacy		Let's go back up. Jeff takes a step forward into the clearing--slowly, warily. STACY  I wanna go back. Jeff takes another step, edging toward the mound, his eyes on the Mayans, their raised weapons. They just watch him.
jeff		Easy. All right? Easy and slow. We'll stand up and we'll walk away. We'll walk back up the hill. The young man's T-shirt is stiff with dried blood. There are. three slender arrows impaled in his chest.
mathias		It's my brother.
jeff		I know.
mathias		They killed him. Jeff nods, his hand still on Mathias's.shoulder; he squeezes.
jeff		Shh. Not here. Up the hill, okay? Mathias is struggling to control his breathing; the MOANS keep coming. Finally, he manages a nod, and they both stand up. Stacy and Amy are holding hands, looking stricken. Stacy has started to CRY. Eric has his arm around her. The Mayans keep their weapons raised. They watch in silence as Jeff and the others turn to start back up the hill.
eric		We can sneak past once the sun...-' sets, I bet. You know? Just reep by them in the dark? Stacy and Amy hardly seem to hear him; they look dazed, distraught. Eric passes the bottle to Stacy. A beat, then: ERIC  And then there's the girl.
amy		The girl?
eric		The one his brother met. What happened to her? Amy and Stacy are silent. Stacy lifts the water bottle to her lips, but immediately lowers it, and starts to CRY again. Amy takes her hand. Eric watches them, silent. Then: ERIC  And the archaeologists. You think-- Stacy's crying deepens toward a SOB. Amy gives Eric a look.
amy		Stop it, Eric.
eric		What?
amy		Just stop, okay? Stop talking. Stacy struggles to collect herself, breathing deep. She wipes at her face. Amy keeps stroking her hand. Jeff and Mathias are approaching across the hilltop. Mathias holding his burned-looking hands out in front of him. He 9 a nd Jeff crouch beside the others.
eric		What happened? Jeff takes the bottle from Stacy. He pours a tiny bit of water on Mathias's hands.
jeff		There's something in the plants. The sap--it burned his skin. Mathias rubs at his hands with his shirt, grimacing. Amy reaches to take the water back from Jeff. She starts to lift the bottle to her mouth, but..Teff leans forward, grabs it. JEFF  Don't. We need to save it.
amy		But I'm thirsty.
jeff		We all are.
amy		So let's drink. Jeff shakes his head, capping the bottle.
jeff		We don't have that much. We need to ration it.  We'll have to figure out a way to catch the rain. Everyone but Amy peers up at the sky: it's a perfect, cloudless blue. Amy remains focused on Jeff.
amy		I'm hungover. I'm sunburned. I lost my hat. I need some water.
amy		Why do you get to decide? Jeff stares at her, considering this. Then he shrugs.
jeff		Fine. Let's vote.  Now who wants to give Amy more water? A long moment of silence. No one can meet Amy's eyes. Finally, VERY QUIETLY:
stacy		Maybe we should just wait, honey.
any		Till? Everyone looks toward Jeff.
jeff		Another hour or so. Then we'll all have a sip. Okay? Amy can see that she has no choice. She gives a grudging nod, and Jeff slides the bottle into his knapsack. JEFF  We have to get organized. Now. While we're still fresh. We'll have to stay out of the sun, spend as much time as possible in the tents. We'll have to--
stacy		Can't we sneak away when it gets dark? Eric said we--
jeff		They keep coming. More and more of them. They're all armed, and the bald one sends them out along the clearing. They're surrounding us. Amy, Stacy and Eric struggle to absorb this. Finally:
eric		Why don't they just kill us?
jeff		It's got something to do with the hill, I think. Once you step on it, you're not allowed off. Something like that. They won't step on it themselves, but now that we're here, they won't let us leave. So we have to figure out a way to survive till someone comes and finds-us.
amy		Who? Jeff lifts one hand, palm-up, half a shrug.
jeff		People'll start to worry when we don't return home. Right? And
amy		We're not supposed to leave till Friday. Jeff nods. AMY  So you're talking--what, a week?
amy		We can't live here for a week, Jeff.
jeff		If we try to leave, they'll shoot us. That's the one thing we know for certain. An electronic CHIRPING comes from the shaft: it sounds like a cell phone ringing. Mathias turns his head, listening. No one else notices it.
amy		But what will we eat? How will we-- The RINGING comes again, silencing her. She glances toward the shaft, not quite believing what she's hearing. It comes a THIRD TIME, and they all stand up, step to the hole, peer into its darkness. The RINGING comes yet again.
stacy		A cell phone.
amy		It can't be--
jeff		That's a cell phone, Amy. Definitely.
jeff		It could be a different network. Something local.
amy		Way down in that hole? How could it pick it up? Still another RING.
eric		What else can it be?
jeff		There's a lamp in the orange tent. See if you can find some matches, too. Amy hurries off toward the orange tent, vanishing inside. There's a final RING, and then SILENCE again. Mathias is knotting the rope tightly around his chest. Amy returns, carrying an oil lamp, a box of matches. Everyone watches as Jeff crouches to light the lamp. Then he rises, turns toward Mathias, looks at him closely. JEFF  You sure? Mathias nods, takes the lamp, steps to the edge of the hole. Jeff and Eric move to the windlass; they position themselves at the hand crank, leaning into it, so the rope goes taut. Mathias girds himself, steps out over the hole. He dangles there for a moment, hanging beneath the sawhorse, the windlass GROANING on its mount. Then Jeff and Eric begin to reverse the crank, letting the rope slowly spool out. Stacy and Amy stand beside the shaft, peering into it, watching as Mathias begins his descent--ten feet, twenty feet, thirty feet down, and still only darkness beneath him, with no sign of the shaft's bottom. The windlass CREAKS as it turns; Jeff and Eric strain against it, sweating, muscles taut. Amy has turned from the shaft, is watching: the rope as it slowly unspools from the barrel.
amy		Jeff. He turns to look, and she points at the rope, where it comes off the windlass and angles up toward the little wheel hanging from the sawhorse.
jeff		Pull him up ! Eric hasn't grasped what's happening. He hesitates. JEFF 
nowt		Amy jumps forward to help, all three of them pushing at the crank, getting in each other's way, the windlass CREAKING as it begins to turn again, slowly reclaiming the rope. Stacy remains beside the shaft, peering anxiously into it.
mathias		What is it? The rope beneath the sawhorse is being visibly eaten away, its hemp unraveling.
eric		Oh, Jesus. Oh, fuck.
amy		Is he-- There's a GROAN from below, very faint, almost inaudible.
jeff		He's moaning. They listen for a beat, but there's only silence. JEFF  One of you will have to go.
amy		Go? Jeff nods, waving into the shaft.
jeff		Down. We'll clear the vine off the rope. And you can--
amy		Why can't you? Or Eric?
jeff		We have to work the crank. You won't be strong enough.
stacy		I can do it.
jeff		Mathias...? More SILENCE. Jeff turns to the girls. JEFF  See if you can find a knife. And another lamp.' He waves them toward the tents; then he and Eric begin to unspool the rope from the windlass, laying it out across the clearing in long, looping circles.
jeff		Once we get him out, we'll drop the rope back down and pull you up, too. Amy offers Stacy the lamp. Stacy is scared, yet struggling not to show it. Her hands are trembling, and the lamp rattles as she takes it. The boys are stepping toward the windlass; Eric stops, glances back at her.
eric		You okay? Stacy nods, but without much conviction. Eric steps toward her, gives her a tight hug. He holds her eyes for a moment, kisses her. Then he joins Jeff at the hand crank. They lean against it, and the rope goes taut. Stacy steps out into the open air over the shaft, the lamp in her right hand. With her left hand, she lunges, grabs at the sawhorse, clings tightly to it. Jeff glances toward her from the hand crank.
jeff		Ready? She nods, but doesn't relinquish her grip on the sawhorse. JEFF  You have to let go, Stacy. For a moment, it doesn't seem like she'll be able to, but then--with a visible act of will--she does, and they slowly. begin to let the rope out, dropping her into the shaft.
jeff		Stacy? His voice has an ECHO to it.
stacy		What?
stacy		I'm not at the bottom.
stacy		A little.
stacy		I can't tell. I don't think so.
stacy		Fifteen feet?  He's just lying there. She lifts her head again, peers upward.
jeff		We have to figure out a way to lengthen the rope. We're gonna pull you up. He pulls his head away.
stacy		Wait! The rope has almost stopped its swaying.
jeff		You can't. We have to--
jeff		We might not be able to make it longer. You'll be trapped.
jeff		We'll pull you up. Then we'll see. He starts toward the windlass again.
stacy		I'm sorry. Oh, God. I'm so sorry. She pulls herself into a crouch, staring down at him through the dimness, his SHRIEK fading to a steady MOANING.
eric		Stacy...? Stacy's voice rises toward them, sounding. very FAR AWAY:
jeff		What happened to the lamp?
jeff		I'm dropping the matches. Okay?
stacy		Mathias...? He doesn't respond; it's hard to tell if he's conscious. Stacy lifts the lamp, peers about the shaft. The vine has taken root even at this depth, its flowers and leaves pale to the point of translucence. Beyond Mathias, there's an opening in the dirt wall, another shaft cutting perpendicularly into the earth. Its roof is supported by a stone archway, intricately carved. Stacy rises, as if to investigate, but then winces, nearly falls. She peers down at her right leg. A large piece of glass is imbedded there, just beneath her knee. it's the size of a playing card, gently concave,'dark with her blood. She reaches and, grimacing, pulls it from her body.
jeff		We need fifteen feet. Twenty to be safe. No one speaks. The windlass turns with that steady CREAKING, but it's higher-pitched now, with no weight on the rope. JEFF  Come on. Think. How can we--
eric		The clothes? From the backpacks? We could knot them together?
jeff		Would they hold? Eric frowns, uncertain. Jeff finishes with the rope, stands there, catching his breath. Stacy's,voice rises toward them from the shaft:
eric		Bad?
stacy		My shoe's full of blood.
jeff		Put pressure on it. Use my shirt. They all stare down at her, waiting.
mathias		My...legs... His voice is faint and RASPY; we can hear his pain in it. Stacy leans toward him, tries to smile reassuringly.
stacy		Hey...
mathias		Can't... move ...my...legs... Stacy turns to look: his legs are lying at an odd angle, as if he were a doll that had been carelessly tossed there.
jeff		What about the tents? We could take one down, cut the nylon into strips. Eric and Amy glance toward the tents, debating.
eric		Would it be strong enough?
jeff		we can braid them--three strips for each section. Then knot the sections together, for strength. Before either of them can respond, Stacy's voice emerges from the shaft, sounding SCARED:
jeff		Smells?
amy		 Oh no. Please no. Jeff turns to her.
jeff		How can we make a backboard? Amy starts to shake her head, looking horrified.
amy		No, Jeff. No way. We can't move him.
jeff		One of the frames from the backpacks? And the tent poles. There's tape in the orange tent. He doesn't wait for a response; he leans over the shaft,
amy		We'll make it worse. Well jostle him, and he'll-- Jeff turns toward her, with a hint of EXASPERATION:
jeff		We can't just leave him down there. You know that, don't you? She starts to back away, toward the edge of the clearing.
amy		we have to tell them.
jeff		Who?
amy		The Mayans. We have to tell them what's happened. Jeff gives her an incredulous look. She keeps retreating; she's almost at the path. AMY  They can send for help.
jeff		They're not gonna---
amy		We have to may. We have to-- She spins, starts off at a run, vanishing down the trail. Jeff calls after her, SHOUTING:
jeff		Amy! But she's gone. Jeff turns to Eric. JEFF  Stay here.
amy		Help us. Please. Someone's been hurt. He-- Jeff comes to a halt, five feet behind her.
jeff		They can't understand you. She turns, her voice quickened with PANIC:
amy		Say it in Spanish. Tell them he--
jeff		They don't speak Spanish.
amy		Try it. You have to try.
jeff		They killed Henrich. Why would- Amy tries to tug free, but he won't let her. She starts to SHOUT at the Mayans:
amy		Help usi We need help! The Mayans just stare at her, their weapons raised, their faces expressionless. one of them is much younger than the others, almost a boy. He says something in MAYAN to the bald man, and the bald man shakes his head. Amy begins to CRY. Jeff pulls at her elbow.
jeff		We have to get back. Amy turns toward him, her face smeared with tears.
amy		I didn't want to come. I told you we shouldn't. I said-- Jeff tightens his grip on her arm, gives her a little shake, as if to wake her up.
jeff		Listen to me. Mathias needs our help. Right now. He--
amy		We shouldn't even be here. Why did you say we'd come?  You have to! It's your fault. It's all your-- Jeff shakes her again, more roughly, his voice like a slap:
jeff		YD-q stepped onto the hill. Amy stares at him, startled into silence. JEFF  Now let's go, okay? He starts to pull her back toward the trail. She allows herself to be led; she's begun to CRY again:
amy		I didn't know. I just-- She's growing increasingly upset, almost SOBBING. She tries to turn back toward the Mayans again, but Jeff won't let her. AMY  They have to help us.
jeff		They're not going to.
amy		They have to. She wrenches herself free, stumbles, falls into the vines beside the trail. Jeff reaches for her, but she kicks away from him, grabbing at the vines, scrambling to her feet. As she rises, she yanks up a tendril, a clot of earth hanging from its roots. She SCREAMS, spinning toward the clearing--- AMY 
eric		Maybe we could use it as a weapon, you know? Wrap it around some stones or something. And throw them, like grenades. I mean, if they're that scared of it-- Jeff tears off a piece of tape with his teeth.
jeff		They have guns, Eric. And bows. What do you think they'll do if we start throwing the vine at them? Eric is silenced by this. He cuts another long strip of nylon, passes it to Amy. But he can't seem to stop himself from talking:
amy		I'm okay. But she doesn't look it. Jeff removes his hat, holds it out. Amy just stares at it; he nods for her to take it.
jeff		Come on. You're burning. She reaches for the hat, puts it on, then wipes at her eyes again. Jeff leans forward, touches her. JEFF  We're gonna get through this. All right? We'll pull them up. And then ...I don't know--we'll figure things out. it has to rain at some point. And maybe we can snare some birds. Or--
stacy		No. She keeps peering into the shadows, not moving. The ringing falls SILENT. Stacy turns, hobbles back toward Mathias, and the light shudders, dims for a moment. She squints at it: the oil is nearly gone. She SHOUTS up to the others: STACY  The lamp's almost out of oil.
stacy		Blow it out?
stacy		What?
amy		Almost. A few more feet.
amy		I don't know. Three?
stacy		We'll have to send it back up, I guess.
amy		If he twists--
stacy		It's only a few feet. /"- Once more, Amy is silent. Stacy lifts the lamp, examining it, the diminishing pool of oil. STACY  We have to decide. The light's not going to last. Jeff's voice comes toward them from above again:
amy		We're gonna try itt She climbs off the backboard, crouches beside Mathias. Stacy sets down the lamp. AMY  Mathias...? She touches his shoulder, and he opens his eyes, stares at her. He looks haggard, ashen.
stacy		You sure?
amy		If you lift from his feet, he'll bend at the waist.
stacy		But if I lift at his hips, won't he arch his back? They both stare down at Mathis, imagining these two different scenarios. Amy glances toward the lamp, its dwindling oil.
amy		His knees. Stacy crouches by Mathias's knees, a little off balance, favoring her wounded leg. Amy bends, sliding her hands under his shoulders. Mathias GROANS, and Stacy starts to pull away, but Amy shakes her head. AMY  Quickly. On three. They count together:
amy		No!
stacy		I have to pee. She limps toward the wall, lowers her pants, gingerly crouches. She stares toward the other shaft as she pees: its stone archway, the shifting shadows, the vine rustling softly in the steady draught. Amy binds Mathias at his thighs. She WHISPERS to him:
amy		You okay? She waits, but he doesn't respond. His eyes remain shut. Stacy rises, buttoning her pants, limps back toward Amy. She's on the edge of tears, is working hard to fight them off. Amy lifts her head, SHOUTS up to Jeff: AMY  Pull him up!
eric		Shouldn't we carry him into the tent first? Jeff pulls free the first belt, shifts to the second one.
jeff		We can't.
eric		Because?
jeff		He's gonna keep leaking urine.
amy		But we can't just leave him out in the open.
jeff		We'll rig a shelter. With what's left of the blue tent. Jeff pulls the second belt free. Mathias's eyes remain shut. JEFF  Eric and I'll build the shelter,. then I'll take the first shift. You two should try to sleep. Stacy takes her single sip, passes the bottle to Eric.
stacy		Amy? what?
stacy		We shouldn't have lifted him, should we? Amy reaches, pats Stacy's hand.
amy		Shh.
stacy		He's never gonna walk again.. He's--
amy		Don't, Stacy. Don't talk. It'll only make things worse. Stacy falls silent. AMY  Just go to sleep, okay? Let's try to go to sleep. Stacy lies down next to Amy, in her-underwear and T-shirt. They huddle close together in the darkness.
eric		What're you doing?
jeff		We have to keep him clean. He slices the jeans, from ankle to hip, first one leg, then the other, struggling not to jostle Mathias's body. JEFF  That's how it'll happen, I think. if it does.
eric		If what does? Jeff slides the soiled strips of-denim out from under Mathias's body, tosses them aside. He LOWERS his voice:.
jeff		If he dies here. infection. Blood poisoning--something like that. Eric seems startled by this.
eric		You think he's gonna die?
jeff		 We should go back down in the morning.
eric		Down?
jeff		Into the shaft. Try to find the phone again.
eric		There's no oil for the lamp. Jeff waves toward the orange tent.
jeff		There's tequila. We could pour it on some of the clothes, tie them around one of these poles, make a torch. A sleeping bag is lying in the clearing among the strips of nylon and aluminum poles. Jeff steps over to pick it up. JEFF  Without the phone, he's dead. If we have to wait for someone to come searching... He shakes his head. Then he leans forward and carefully drapes the sleeping bag across Mathias's broken body.
jeff		How is he?
amy		The same.
jeff		And you?
amy		 Tired. Thirsty. Hungry.
jeff		Once the others are up, we'll have some water. His face is stubbled, sweat-stained. He looks ragged; they both do. He steps to the opposite side of the clearing, unzips, begins to urinate, with his back to Amy.
any		What is it? Jeff gestures for her to approach. When she reaches him, he leans forward, pulls aside the vines. WE SEE a man's skull, a loose tumble of bones. Amy INHALES sharply, recoiling.
jeff		Bodies. All of them. He waves across the hilltop, at the other mounds: there are more than a dozen. Amy takes them in. The light is gaining strength, the green leaves seeming to shine in it, the red flowers to glow. Jeff's face assumes a puzzled expression. JEFF  Where are the birds?
amy		Birds?
jeff		it's dawn--there should be birds. They both stare off across the hillside: so quiet, so still.
stacy		Oh my god... The vine is clinging to her; she has to tear it, the sap shining slickly on her hands, visibly beginning to burn the skin. She yanks at the tendrils, tossing them aside. STACY  Get the knifes Eric is too shocked to stir. He's staring down at her leg, at the bulge beneath her skin: it looks as if it's moving.
jeff		Stay with him. Then he ducks in through the tent's flap.
jeff		What is it?
eric		The vine. It's inside her. Stacy points to her wound, SOBBING now:
stacy		Cut it out. You gotta cut it out.
jeff		The blade's dirty. We should-- Stacy starts shaking her head, FRANTIC:
stacy		It's moving! Can't you see? Jeff stares at the bulge, hesitating. Then it moves, unquestionably: contracting and expanding, like a worm. Stacy SHRIEKS: STACY  Jeff! Be gives in, crouching over her leg.
jeff		It's gonna hurt.
stacy		Please. Hurry. He leans forward, slices into the skin above the bulge. Stacy CRIES OUT, starts to jerk away, but Jeff presses down on her leg, holding her still. He reaches into her wound with his finger, digs out the piece of vine, tosses it aside.
jeff		Get me a shirt or something. He gestures toward the backpacks, and Eric unzips one of them, starts to dig through it.
mathias		Something's... wrong... His voice is thick-sounding, very faint. Amy tries to soothe him; she puts her hand on his shoulder.
amy		It's okay. It's just--
mathias		my-legs...
amy		I know. You're hurt. But we're., gonna get you--
mathias		Show ...me... He's struggling to rise, straining upward. Amy tries to stop him, pressing down on his shoulder.
amy		Shh. But he fights her; he won't be quieted:
stacy		I can still feel it.
jeff		I got it out.
stacy		I can feel it moving.
jeff		That's just your body. Your muscle twitching.
eric		It's on our clothes. Stacy and Jeff both glance at him. There's a faint, almost fungus-like green growing on his shirt, an infantile version of the vine covering the hillside all around them. It's on all of them: their shirts, their pants, their shoes. Before any of them can respond to this development, Amy starts to CALL from the clearing, sounding SCARED:
jeff		They must've dug it up.
any		Who? He arranges the rest of the food in a second pile: a bag of pretzels, a can of nuts, two protein bars, a box of raisins.
jeff		The miners. He puts the liquids in a third pile: three bottles of water, two of iced tea, a can of Coke. That's all there is. JEFF  And then somehow it killed them off. All of them. one by one. This is too much for Eric; he.leaps up, looking panicky.
eric		We have to find the phone. We have to go back down and-- Jeff makes a calming motion.
jeff		We'll eat first. Drink some water. We have to stay calm. Not rush at things. He holds out one of the tiny squares of sandwich. Eric hesitates, then accepts it, dropping back into a crouch. Jeff hands Amy her square.
amy		What about Mathias? She nods toward him, and they all turn to look. From his knees down, Mathias's legs are nothing but bone, tendon, and ropy clots of blackened blood. His face looks gray. His eyes are shut, and his breathing sounds terribly RAGGED.
jeff		He wouldn't be able to stomach it. Jeff offers Stacy her ration. She takes it, but almost absentmindedly. She seems distracted; she keeps prodding at her wound with her fingertip. JEFF  Stop it, Stacy.
stacy		It's still in there. I can feel it. She keeps probing. Jeff shakes his head, a little it' ATIENT:
jeff		I told you. I got it out. Jeff pops his square of sandwich into his mouth; Eric and Amy eat theirs, too. Stacy's ration remains in her hand; she seems to have forgotten it. She's sunburned, sweat-stained, glassy-eyed. Eric leans toward her, looking worried.
eric		Eat, Stacy. You have to eat. She places the tiny sandwich into her mouth, chews, swallows, staring at her wound the whole time. Then:
stacy		See? How puffy it is?
eric		That's just swelling. It's natural.  Right?
jeff		 one swallow apiece. The bottle makes its way around their little circle. When it returns to Jeff, he takes his sip, caps the bottle. Eric is watching Stacy, her anxious probing; he looks increasingly distressed by it. He jumps up again.
eric		The phone. Let's find the phone. Jeff doesn't move. Stacy's bloodied khakis. are lying in the dirt beside him, and he reaches for them, starts to cut off their legs with the knife, just above the knee.
jeff		We need to take care of Mathias, first. He won't last much longer like that. Amy looks appalled; she makes a shushing motion.
any		Shh. They all glance toward Mathias again. He lies there, eyes shut, breathing in and out with that fluid-filled RASP. He seems to be unconscious, but Jeff still LOWERS his voice:
jeff		We have to cut them off.
eric		Cut what off?
jeff		His legs. He's finished with Stacy's khakis; they've been transformed into a pair of shorts. He tosses them toward her. Eric and Amy are staring at him, shocked into silence. Then:
eric		You're joking.
jeff		He'll die if we don't.
amy		Without anaesthesia?
jeff		There won't be any pain. He has no feeling beneath his waist.
eric		He'll lose too much blood.
jeff		The tourniquets are already in place. We'll cut below them.
eric		With what? Jeff holds up the knife. Eric SCOFFS at the idea: ERIC  That wouldn't do a thing. You'd need a bone saw.
jeff		We could break the bones. Then cut. Amy is shaking her head; she looks mortified.
amy		No, Jeff. No way.
eric		What about infection? Cutting into him with a dirty knife?
jeff		We'll sterilize it. Build a fire. Heat the blade in the flames. It'll cauterize as it cuts.
amy		You'll kill him.
jeff		Or save him. One or the other. We can't just--
stacy		Cut me first. Right here. Stacy has stood up, pulled on the shorts Jeff has fashioned for her. She's bent over, pointing at a spot on her leg, a few inches below the last incision. STACY  Sterilize the knife and-- Eric steps toward her, tries to soothe her.
eric		There's nothing there, Stacy. It's
stacy		It's moving. I can feel it moving.
eric		You're imagining it. You're scared, and you--
stacy		I gotta get out of here. I gotta get to a hospital. I gotta-- Eric takes her hand, squeezing it. Stacy blinks at him, close to tears.
eric		You have to calm down. Can you do that? Can you try to calm down? Stacy pulls free of him, drops into a crouch, hugging her knees to her chest, her eyes shut.
stacy		See if there's a signal.
eric		A what?
stacy		Your phone. Check your phone. Eric doesn't move: he knows there's no point. STACY  Check it. Eric SIGHS, steps to his pack, crouches to remove his phone. He flips it open, holds it out to Stacy. She stares down at it: there's no signal. Eric drops it back into his pack. Then he turns to Jeff.
eric		We go back down. We find the other phone. We call for help. That's how we get out of here. That's how we save him.
jeff		It'11 take too long.
eric		One call, Jeff. They'll be here by sundown.
jeff		And Mathias will already be dying. You understand? There's no flesh covering his bones. They're-- Mathias's voice interrupts him, from the backboard. Very HOARSE, barely audible:
mathias		Do...it... They all turn, stare toward him. His eyes are open. MATHIAS  Cut... them... off... He slowly, painfully, extends his left hand toward them, a beseeching gesture.
jeff		With the stone. Then I'll use the knife to cut. A large stone sits beside the pile of clothes, shaped like an ax head. There's the knife, too, and the metal canteen from the orange tent. JEFF  You? Mathias also nods, shutting his eyes. There's a small towel in the dirt beside Jeff, and he. picks it up, wrapping it around his hand. He looks over his shoulder at the girls. They both seem terrified, shaky with it.
mathias		Stop...stop... Jeff ignores him, dropping the canteen back into the fire, lifting out the stone. Eric looks increasingly mortified; he seems close to tears.
jeff		Reep him still. He turns, SMASHES the stone into Mathias's right leg. Mathias begins to SCREAM, bucking against Eric's grip.
eric		Oh, Jesus. Jesus Christ. Amy emerges from the tent, then Stacy. They stand staring.
amy		He felt it, didn't he? The whole thing. Jeff lifts the canteen away.
jeff		He couldn't have.
amy		He was screaming. Be was telling you to stop.
jepf		It was just seeing it. Looking down, and-- Amy is shaking her head, staring at Mathias with that appalled expression: his slack face, his burned stumps.
amy		This is bad, Jeff. So bad. Jeff leans to loosen first one tourniquet, then the other.
jeff		We've bought him some time. He wouldn't have--
amy		You cut off his legs! You-- Stacy SCREAMS, pointing toward Mathias's amputated limbs. They're lying in the dirt at the base of the backboard, the bloodstained bones held together with a few remaining cords of flesh. A vine has come snaking into the clearing: it's wrapping itself around one of the feet. As the tendril begins to drag. the bones away, a.second one slithers forward and lays claim to the other foot. Eric grabs the knife, jumps up, steps on the first tendril, bends to slash at it with the blade. He swoops toward the second one. Even as he does so, though, a third tendril slithers into the clearing, then a fourth. Stacy SCREAMS again, short and loud, and backs toward the tent; Eric bends and slashes, bends and slashes, and the'vine keeps coming, from all directions, reaching for the bones.
jeff		Leave it. Eric ignores him, cutting and stomping and tearing at the tendrils, faster and faster, but still too slow, the vine fighting back, wrapping itself around his legs. JEFF  Eric. He steps toward him, grabs his arm, pulls him away. They stand side by side, watching as the vine pulls the severed limbs into itself, the white of the bones vanishing into the larger mass of green. Stacy has begun to CRY again. There's a beat of stillness, and then, once more, echoing up toward them from the shaft, comes that faint electronic RINGING of the cell phone.
jeff		So you'll have to be quick. He has one of the aluminum poles from the blue tent. He's wrapped duct tape around its bottom for a grip, tied some of the archaeologists' clothes around the top. He's dribbling tequila on the knot of fabric, saturating it. JEFF  Wait to light it till you're both down there. Then--
stacy		Who? Jeff looks up at her, startled by the question. Eric is moving along the length of rope, bent low, checking its hemp for signs of weakness.
jeff		Who what?
stacy		Who's going?
jeff		You and Amy. They all look bad, but Stacy looks the worst: her wounded leg,, -her greasy hair, a panicky edge to every gesture. She shakes her head, with vehemence.
stacy		No, Jeff. No way. Not me. Jeff caps the tequila bottle, gives Stacy a tired look.
jeff		We've already been through this. Eric and I need to work the winch. You're not strong enough. Eric has reached the end of the rope; he stands up, wiping his hands on his pants.
eric		It's clear. He moves to the windlass, starts to wind the rope back onto the barrel. They've tied a sling on the rope's end again. Stacy is pressing her right hand against the bottom of her rib cage: massaging, probing
stacy		Why can't Amy go on her own?
jeff		The torch won't last that long. We need you both there, searching. Stacy starts shaking her head again, TERRIFIED:
stacy		I'm not going. I can't.
jeff		You don't have a choice, Stacy. Amy can see where this is headed; she tries to divert it.
amy		It's okay. I'll go alone. Jeff ignores this. He rises to his feet, still focused on Stacy. WE can HEAR his growing anger in his voice:
jeff		if we don't find the phone, Mathias will die. Understand? Stacy is silent, hugging herself, staring at the ground. Eric has finished winding the rope onto the windlass. He tries to intervene:
jeff		So that's what you're saying. Just to be clear. That you're not willing to help him live.
eric		Come on, man. She's too scared.
jeff		I don't give a fuck. I'm scared, too. We all are.
eric		it was inside her.
jeff		And we got it out. Now she needs to stop being such a fucking baby, stop being so selfish, and-- Eric is stepping toward him suddenly, right up against him, forcing him back a step.
eric		,hut Up. Okay? He's bigger than Jeff, stronger, and this is suddenly very palpable. Their faces are three inches apart. A tense beat, and then, more QUIETLY: ERIC  You're being too hard. Jeff gives him a look of incredulity, almost disgust.
jeff		Hard?
eric		Just leave her be. Jeff turns away from him, from all three of them. He stares off across the hill for a beat, then shakes his head.
jeff		I'm the only one thinking. I'm carrying the whole fucking load.
eric		So stop. Lay it down. Jeff turns back to him, gives him a look of pure contempt; WE can HEAR his fury rising again as he speaks:
jeff		This isn't just going to work out on its own, Eric. You know? Magically?
eric		I'm not saying--
jeff		We could end up dead here. All of us. Is that what you want?
eric		Of course not.
jeff		Then get the fuck out of my way, and start helping me. He holds Eric's eyes long enough to confirm that Eric isn't going to protest, then he glances past him at Stacy. JEFF  You going or not? Stacy-is still staring at the ground, her hand probing at her chest. It's clear she doesn't want to go, but Jeff has shamed her into silence. Amy reaches, touches her arm.
amy		.'-11 be right there. Okay? We'll be together the whole time. A long beat, then Stacy manages a nod. It's enough for Jeff; he pushes past Eric, moving toward the windlass.
jeff		Get in the sling, Amy. Amy turns, reaching for the sling.
amy		Pull it up! The CREAKING resumes. She stands there in the dimness, watching the sling rise away from her. She has the makeshift torch in one hand, the box of matches in the other.
stacy		Hurry. Amy strikes the match, holds it to the knot of clothing at the end of the aluminum pole. The alcohol catches with a FLUTTERING sound, a cloud of pale blue fire materializing around the torch. Amy lifts it, and they start into:
amy		Wait... She pauses, lifting the torch, but Stacy keeps going. Amy peers at the vine hanging from the wall. There's a fifth RING, echoing eerily, and the flowers move in exact unison with the sound, their stamens vibrating, like so many miniature tuning forks: the plant is making the noise. AMY  Stacy... The shaft dead-ends at a blank wall, which is just materializing out of the darkness, fifteen feet in front of them. There's a sixth RING. Stacy points at the wall, quickening her pace.
stacy		It's right here. I can-- Amy jumps forward, reaching for her.
stacy		What? A seventh RING sounds, seeming to come from beneath the vines on the floor of the shaft, directly in front of them. Stacy tries to pull free, to bend and reach toward the sound.
any		It's the vine. The flowers. They're making the noise.
stacy		No. It's-- She pulls free, steps forward, and her foot seems to punch straight through the shaft's floor. She SCREAMS, losing her balances Amy throws down the torch, lunges for her. The torch flutters, pales, but remains lit. The vines growing across the floor fall away, revealing an opening, another shaft, dropping into the earth. Stacy is slowly sliding into it, scrambling to stop herself. Amy grabs Stacy arm. Stacy is dangling, from the waist down, over the hole's edge. There are vines in the hole, too, and. they begin to coil around her legs, pulling at her, dragging her downward. Stacy SCREAMS again, kicking to free herself, scrambling upward, monkey-like, while Amy pulls at her, and finally they manage to drag her to safety. A beat, then Amy retrieves the torch, holds it out over the hole. The bottom is twenty feet down, almost lost in shadow. Dimly, WE SEE a woman, lying curled against the wall--she has long dark hair. STACY  Oh my God. The woman stirs, her body rolling, as if to turn and look at us, and WE SEE her face: she's a corpse. The vine has invaded her flesh--it's in her eye sockets, the hollow of her mouth, writhing and churning. Stacy and Amy SCREAM. There's a WHISTLING sound, like a whip, and a tendril lashes out from the shaft's wall, wraps itself around the torch's handle, yanks it from Amy's grip. The torch falls into the hole, still burning. When it hits bottom, a mass of vine surges across it, smothering its flame. It's very dark after this: Amy and Stacy are barely discernible. A beat of silence, then an odd, high-pitched CACKLING rises all around them; it sounds like laughter-- eerie, childlike, full of echoes.
amy		You. But Stacy is too hysterical: she just stands there, SOBBING, SCREAMING. Jeff's voice comes toward them from above,
amy		Pull us up!
nmi		She reaches out, grabs Stacy, wrapping her arms and legs around her. Stacy returns the embrace, both of them clutching at each other, as the windlass finally begins to CREAK, lifting the two of them into the air.
stacy		Check your phone. Eric pushes himself to his feet, steps toward his pack. He pulls out his phone, flips it open. He shakes his head. STACY  Let me see. Eric carries the phone to her, then stands over her while she opens it, stares down at it. She shuts it, opens it again. Then again, and again, and suddenly she's CRYING, bent into herself. Eric drops to a crouch, rests his hand on her knee.
eric		Shh. But her crying increases; she begins to SOB. Jeff is bent' over the orange, dividing it into four equal piles--its peel, too--concentrating. He lifts his head, stares. Amy stands up, hurries over., kneels in front of Stacy, takes her hand.
amy		It's okay, sweetie. You're okay. Stacy keeps WEEPING, uncontrollably, shaking her head.
stacy		I wanner go home. I wanna leave...
eric		Shh... She's WAILING, rocking back and forth; she can't seem to stop. Amy struggles to calm her.
amy		Stacy... Stacy keeps WAILING, rocking, eyes shut. Amy leans in close. AMY  So there was this girl who wanted to be a pilot. Stacy's tears keep coming. Amy looks at Eric, gives him a nod,'prodding him into speech. He hesitates, then:
eric		But she was scared of heights.
amy		So she became a lifeguard instead. (she squeezes Stacy's
jeff		But she couldn't swim.
amy		So she wore a life vest. (she squeezes Stacy's hand
stacy		But everyone... She trails off, CRYING again. Amy nods, encouraging her.
amy		Yeah...? Everyone what?
stacy		They laughed at her.
amy		Good. That's good. So she-- Very suddenly, it starts to rain--a dozen large, heavy drops. They all glance skyward.
shit		He springs to his feet. And then: a downpour, a deluge, as if a trap door has swung open in the clouds. The rain falls in a loud, drumming rush, turning the clearing to mud. Eric jumps up, too. He and Jeff start digging through the backpacks from the. blue tent, searching for something-- anything--in which to catch the water. They find a small plastic bag, a nylon toiletry kit, a Frisbee. Jeff sets these in a row on the ground, open to the rain. Eric rushes to the orange tent, vanishes inside. Amy tilts back her head, tries to catch the rain in her open mouth. Stacy just sits there, hugging herself, shivering, still half- crying. They're all drenched, back-spattered with mud. And then, as abruptly as it had begun, the rain starts to slacken. Eric reemerges from the orange tent, carrying a thermos, a plastic cup. He sets them next to the other containers, but it's pointless; the rain is already stopping. They all stare at these meager receptacles: they've managed to catch less than half an inch of muddy-looking water. Jeff. GROANS; he's FURIOUS with himself:
jefft		She steps forward, as if to guard the other containers.
jeff		It doesn't fucking matter.
amy		There was water in it. He spins toward her, turning his fury with himself on her:
jeff		How much, Amy? Two and a half gallons? 'Cause that's what we need. For today--just to make it through today. And then tomorrow the same all over again. And for how long? Another week before our parents start searching? And then what? How long till they track us to Coba? Or to this fucking hill? How long will it take, Amy?
amy		You said--
jeff		It's not gonna happen. We're not gonna make it. The others stare at him in astonishment, too 'stunned to speak. He gives them all a look of disgust: JEFF  So there were these people trapped in the jungle.
amy		Don't, Jeff.
jeff		But they didn't have any water.
amy		Please, don't.
jeff		So they're gonna die of thirst. Amy covers her ears with her hands.
amy		Shut up!
jeff		But this fucking vine might kill them first.
jeff		I'm sorry ...I'm sorry. He steps back toward the dismembered orange, crouches over it. The fruit and peels are muddy now, spoiled looking. He waves for the others to approach. JEFF  We'll be fine. We'll ration the -food. And then, you know, we'll just...we'll tough it out..
eric		What about the vine? Jeff takes his sip, caps the bottle. He's reclaiming himself, his voice strengthening, his confidence returning.
jeff		I don't think it can hurt us. Not directly. if it could, it already would've, wouldn't it? Why would it wait? The others are silent, considering this. Then: JEFF  It's not strong enough to overpower us. And it-- Mathias GASPS suddenly, his entire body spasming for a moment, before the watery RASP of his breathing resumes. He doesn't regain consciousness; his eyes remain shut. Everyone watches him for a beat: he, also, is spattered with mud.
amy		He's gonna die, isn't he? if there's no phone, then there's no--
stacy		Me, too. They all turn to look at her. She's massaging that spot on her rib cage again, digging into it with her fingers. STACY  It's eating me. Just like him. And her. She waves toward the shaft. Jeff gives her a weary look.
jeff		Don't, Stacy. Don't start. She jumps up, begins to pace, agitated.
stacy		It's inside me. In my leg. My chest. I can feel it. Right here.. She stops pacing, lifts her shirt. She points to the base of her rib cage. STACY  See? Jeff stares; there's nothing there. He shakes his head. The knife is lying in the mud beside him, and Stacy steps forward, snatches it up. Jeff reaches to stop her, but he's too slow. She stands before him, hefting it. in her hand.
jeff		Put it down.
stacy		I'll show you. She lifts her.shirt again, pressing at her rib cage with her .fingertips. Jeff stands up, holds out his hand.
jeff		Give it to me. Right now. Amy and Eric stand, too.
stacy		I thought it would just come tumbling out. She probes at the cut with the point of the knife, prying it farther open, the bleeding increasing. Jeff reaches, grabs the knife from her. He looks furious:
stacy		It's hiding. It's right-- She pokes her finger into the wound, digging. Jeff slaps her hand away. He YELLS:
jeff		a il h f down i He shoves her down, onto her back, then picks up the towel he'd used to hold the heated stone. He balls it up, presses it to Stacy's wound. Eric retrieves the bottle of tequila from the mud, uncaps it. He crouches beside Stacy.
eric		Don't yell. she's just scared.
jeff		what're you doing? He's lifting the bottle toward Stacy's mouth, but he hesitates now, turning toward Jeff.
eric		Just a sip. To calm her.
jeff		It'll dehydrate-her.
eric		A sip, Jeff. He starts to lift the bottle again. Jeff shoves it aside.
jeff		I said Q.
stacy		Leave him alone. She tries to sit up, but Jeff pushes her back down, hard.
jeff		You realize how stupid you're being? Sticking that dirty knife
stacy		It's growing.
jeff		of ina's.inside you. You're imagining it, and you just--
stacy		I'm gonna end up like her. That girl. I'm gonna--
jeff		Get infected. Understand? You're gonna get yourself killed.
stacy		You're not listening.
eric		What the-- Stacy's voice keeps coming, switching locations, seeming to float across the hilltop; they turn, tracking it.
amy		The Mayans.
jeff		 No--it's the vine. It's mimicking her. Stacy has started to CRY; she covers her ears with her hands.
stacy		Make it stop.
stacy		Please. Make it stop.
stacy		Shut up...! Stacy's voice continues, but now that high-pitched LAUGHTER is coming, too, a chorus of it, growing in volume:
stacy		Shut up...! Shut up...! The LAUGHTER grows steadily LOUDER, obscuring Stacy's voice: WE SEE the flowers trembling, visibly vibrating as they sculpt the sound...
any		Now is he? Eric shrugs, waves toward the backboard: it seems clear enough. Amy stares-for a moment, then sits beside him. AMY  You can go lie down if you want. Eric lifts his hand, pushes a button on his watch, makes it glow. He squints at it.
eric		I still have forty minutes.
amy		I don't mind. I can't sleep. Eric checks his watch again, its glow briefly illuminating his face. He gestures toward the tent.
eric		Is Stacy?
amy		They both are. There's a slight breeze, and the tent makes a FLAPPING SOUND in it. They both turn to stare at it. Then: AMY  Do you think it's inside her?
eric		 Jeff cut it out. I saw him.
amy		But she says she can feel it. Moving. Shifting about. Eric waves this aside.
eric		You know how Stacy is. She's just scared. She gets things in her head, and--- Mathias makes a RETCHING sound--loud, wet, painful--and they both turn,peering at his gaunt form through the darkness. He falls QUIET; his eyes don't open. A beat, then: ERIC  --and I can't help it, I'm, like, take him if you need to, take Mathias, and let the rest of us go. That's fucking horrible, isn't it? And once I've said it, I feel like I can't take it back, you know?
amy		I'm sorry ...I'm so sorry...  It's my fault.
eric		what is?
amy		If I hadn't stepped onto the hill-- Her crying INCREASES. Eric leans, touches her hand.
eric		That's stupid, Amy. That's--
amy		Jeff said it. He said-- Eric reaches, puts his arm around her, trying to quiet her.
eric		He didn't mean it. There's no way. He was just--
amy		We might not have...
eric		Shh. Don't. She rests her head on his shoulder, WEEPING, her body shaking with it, while he pats her, stroking her hair.
jeff		Wh--? Stacy holds her finger to her lips, silencing him.. From outside, there's another MOAN. Jeff sits up, listening. The PANTING is BUILDING toward a climax. Jeff leans toward the pile of supplies at the tent's rear, squinting at the tangle of vine growing across it. He points, WHISPERING: JEFF  It's the-- But Stacy is already pushing herself to her feet. She moves quickly to the tent's flap, UNZIPS it, crouches out into:
eric		What?
stacy		We heard you.
eric		Heard me what?
stacy		Fucking her.
eric		What're you talking about?
jeff		The vine. it made it sound as if you two-- Stacy turns toward him, SNORTING, shaking her head.
stacy		You're so blind.
jeff		I could hear it. At the back of the tent. It was--
stacy		It doesn't make things up. It mimics things. Things it's heard.
jeff		Then it's heard someone having sex at some point. Slowly, quietly, a tendril has begun to slither forward through the darkness, creeping in beneath the lean-to, snaking toward Mathias, toward his head. Jeff and the others are all too focused on one another to notice.
stacy		That was Ay, Jeff. Moaning.
amy		What? Jeff reaches, touches Stacy's arm, struggling to calm her, but she flinches from him.
jeff		it's doing this on purpose.' Can't you see? It thinks you're the weakest--because you're hurt. So it's trying to upset you. Trying
stacy		You're not upset? He had his arm around her. He-- Amy leans forward, hands out, BESEECHING:
amy		Nothing happened, Stacy. I was crying. And Eric--
stacy		We he-ar you. The vine starts to push its way in between Mathias's lips, into his mouth. Mathias makes a GAGGING sound, but doesn't regain consciousness: once more, no one notices.
jeff		We heard the vine. It--
stacy		You're such a fool, Jeff. You think she's never cheated on you? Perfect little angelic Amy?
amy		Stacy.
stacy		I could tell you secrets. I could open your eyes.
amy		Shi i up. Right now. A second tendril has slithered under the lean-to. It covers Mathias's nose, drawing itself tight. The steady rasping of his breathing is CUT OFF. Yet again, no one notices.
stacy		Spring break? Senior year?
amy		You bitch. You stupid cunt. Stacy spins on her, VENOMOUS:
stacy		Fuck you. Slut.  Twice, Jeff. Two different guys. And one of them-- Jeff grabs her arm, grips it, silencing hers
jeff		Enough, Stacy. Stoll.
stacy		Oh, god...oh please no... Jeff bends close to Mathias's face, listening; he checks Mathias's neck for a pulse. A beat, then he turns toward the others, shakes his head. Stacy begins to SOB: STACY  I'm sorry...I'm so sorry... Eric reaches, takes her into his arms, hugging her.
jeff		They must've salted the soil. That's the only way I can think. He turns, glances at Amy. She has no idea what he's talking about. He waves down toward the Mayans.
amy		It didn't happen. Jeff turns, stares at her. she waves back toward the tent. AMY  Eric and I, we were just---
jeff		I know.
amy		And what she said. About spring break. I-- Jeff reaches, presses his finger to her lips.
jeff		Shh. Amy falls silent, watching him. He lowers his finger. JEFF  Good.
amy		But I want to tell you--
jeff		I wish it mattered. Amy gives him a confused look. Jeff throws out his hand,. gesturing at the hilltop, the vine, their tattered clothes. JEFF  Would it matter to you? Amy hesitates, considering. Then she shakes her head. And with that, Jeff turns, starts back toward the orange tent. WE HEAR a zipping sound, which carries over into:
jeff		Head first? Eric considers this, staring down at Mathias's body. Mathias's face is burned red from the vine's sap; his legs are two blackened stumps. Eric shrugs.
eric		I guess.
jeff		You'll have to lift him. Eric hesitates; he seems reluctant to touch the corpse. Finally, he girds himself, straddles the backboard, grabs Mathias under his armpits, lifting him. Jeff leans forward, starts to pull the sleeping bag over Mathias's head. The corpse seems intent upon resisting them; its arms keep getting tangled, catching and snagging. Jeff and Eric have to wrestle with it, both of them PANTING, sweating, before they manage to shove it into the bag. Jeff ZIPS the bag shut, and they stand over it, catching their breath, wiping the perspiration from their faces.
eric		Should we say something?
stacy		Where's the knife? They all turn. Her hand is under her tattered shirt, pressing at her lower back. Jeff SIGHS:
jeff		Hold her hands.
stacy		I want to see. Jeff hesitates; for a moment it seems-as if he might argue. But then, very quickly, he leans forward and draws the knife in one smooth movement up and around Stacy's leg. Stacy MOANS, her body tensing, but she doesn't cry out. The incision reveals the vine, a foot long, its leaves and flowers clotted with Stacy's blood, which is oozing from the wound. Jeff reaches in, pries the tendril from her flesh. Stacy MOANS again, arching backward, as the vine emerges: writhing and twisting. The blood comes more thickly now, pumping from the wound, running down her leg. Jeff drops the tendril into the dirt, steps on it, grinding it into stillness. Stacy is breathing HARD, almost hyperventilating. She's shut her eyes.
jeff		Should I stop? Stacy shakes her head, vehemently. Jeff glances at the others. Eric shakes his head, too. Amy's eyes, like Stacy's, are tightly shut. JEFF  Ready? She nods, and he leans, makes five quick incisions, in the shape of an asterisk, directly above the bulge. Stacy's body goes rigid, and Eric takes her hand again. Once more, we can see the tendril through the incision: dark with her blood. Jeff reaches in and slowly pulls the vine from her body. There's an astonishing amount of it; he has to drop the knife and use both hands to drag the slimy mass free.
jeff		Can you eat? Stacy sits up, wincing; her bandages are soaked through with blood. She takes the grapes from him; Eric does, too. They- all begin to eat, in silence. When they're done, Jeff passes the water bottle around their circle. Then: JEFF  Get out of the sun. We're losing moisture out--
stacy		There's more of it. She leans forward, probes at her right thigh, prodding the skin. The others watch her; there's no bulge visible, no sign of the vine-at all. Eric gives her a pained look.
eric		There's nothing there, Stacy.
stacy		It's under the muscle. Down by the bone.
jeff		You're losing too much blood. And if any of these get infected---
stacy		My calf, too. she lifts her right leg, turning it to show the others. Jeff bends to look. Again, there's no visible sign of the vine. He shakes his head.
jeff		No more cutting. Not unless--- The knife is in the dirt beside him, and Stacy leans forward, tries to grab it. Jeff is too quick for her, though: he snatches it up, tucks it into his belt. Stacy is becoming more and more upset. She holds out her hands, BEGGING:
stacy		Please, Jeff.
eric		You can't. You can't keep-- Stacy is starting to CRY; her mouth is trembling.
stacy		It's everywhere. She's prodding at her body: her legs, her chest and stomach. Amy scoots toward her, grasps her hand.
stacy		It's in my head! I can feel it in my head! Amy takes Stacy in her arms, hugging her tight..
amy		Shh. Stacy SOBS into Amy's shoulder, her body jumping. Amy strokes her. Eric steps across the clearing, picks up the bottle of tequila. He glances at Jeff, and Jeff nods. AMY  Can you rest some? In the tent? Stacy is silent. She wipes the tears from her face.
stacy		That girl--  I keep seeing her. When I shut my eyes.
amy		Oh my God. Stacy is on the far side of the clearing. She's pulled off her shirt, her shorts, and has cut much of the skin from her body. She doesn't notice them. She's bent over, slicing into her left thigh, peeling the skin back from the muscle.
jeff		Give it. Now. Eric follows him. Amy stays by the tent; she's begun to CRY.
amy		Please, honey. Just-- Stacy shakes her head; she's CRYING, too, her whole body shaking. Her hair is matted with blood; she looks terrified.
stacy		I have to get it out. It's-- Jeff darts forward, tries to grab the knife from her, and she slashes at him, SHOUTING: STACY  I have to-- Eric steps toward her, from behind, reaching around her body for the knife, and she spins, reflexively, trying to fend him off. But the knife is in her hand, and it punches into his chest, just to the right of his sternum, sticking there.
any		Shh.
stacy		Please. Just--
any		Shh.
stacy		It hurts. It hurts so much. Eric tries to rise again. The blood surges from his wound when he moves. Jeff presses him back down.
jeff		Easy. Try to-- Stacy clutches at Amy, begging, her voice HOARSE with pain:
stacy		Kill me. I can't She stops in mid-sentence, staring. Jeff and Amy follow her gaze. A half dozen tendrils are snaking into the clearing, reaching toward Eric's body. Jeff jumps to his feet. The tendrils begin to wrap themselves around Eric's limbs, and Jeff bends to tear them away. More and more keep coming, though. Eric has started to convulse, GAGGING, his head cocked back. Jeff keeps yanking the tendrils away, but there are far too many of them; they coil around Eric's legs, pulling at him. The blood has stopped pumping from his wound; his body has gone still.
amy		Jeff I She points toward the tent. Jeff turns to see.
jeff		It's okay. I'm right here. I'm-- He UNZIPS the bag, and an immense tangle of vine cascades out onto the dirt. Its flowers are a pale pink; they're opening and closing, still calling, louder now:
amy		Shh. Shh. The vine's laughter grows steadily. LOUDER, punctuated by Stacy's SHOUTS:
jeff		Come on. You'll need the energy. He reaches for her hand, puts the banana in it. She holds the fruit, but makes no move to eat. Finally, VERY QUIETLY:
amy		I still think we should wait. Jeff SIGHS: it's clear they've already been through this.
jeff		You'll only get weaker.
amy		They'll come looking. You said
jeff		Nobody's coming.
amy		Our parents--
jeff		All they'll find are our bones. Amy is silent, staring down at the banana. JEFF  We don't have time for this, Amy. You'll need as much daylight as possible. He waves upward, toward the sun, which has passed its peak, begun its slow slide westward. Amy squints toward it for a beat, and then, almost despite herself, lifts the banana to her mouth. She bites, chews, swallows, still mutely crying. Jeff peels the second banana; he hands it to her as soon as she finishes the first. Be watches her eat,.silent. He's tearing open the bag of pretzels when another tendril snakes into the clearing.
amy		I don't want to. I don't... She shakes her head, wipes at her face: the tears, the snot, the sweat, the dirt. Her clothes are falling off her body, eaten to shreds. Jeff's, too. AMY  Why can't we both? Jeff hesitates a.beat. Then, clearly not believing it:
jeff		We might. He hands her the pretzels; she takes them, watching his face.
amy		How?
jeff		It'll take them a moment to react. If I can make it to the trees... He trails off, shrugs. Amy keeps staring at him; she doesn't believe this either. He SIGHS again, holds up his hand, pulls the bandage from his wound: it's three inches long, a deep gash into his palm. JEFF  It already is, probably. I'll be just like Stacy soon. He turns, glances toward the spot where her body has disappeared. Amy looks, too.
jeff		You don't even know her name. The Mayans just stare at him. He rises to his feet, pulling the knife from his belt: it's darkly stained with. blood. JEFF  You should. You should know who you're killing.
doctor		--and collapsed before the driver even managed to open the door. The corridor is brightly lit, very clean. Rooms open off it on either side, and we glimpse the still.forms of sleeping patients as we pass, IVs hanging from metal stands beside their beds. It's very quiet. DOCTOR  Her clothes were torn; she was covered in blood. But not her own.
teresa		Now do you know?
doctor		She has no wounds. A uniformed policeman sits on a chair outside one of the rooms at the end of the corridor, reading a newspaper. He rises as they approach. Teresa hands the printout back to the doctor; she keeps the passport.
teresa		That's it? That's all you have?
doctor		I'm afraid so. Be nods to the policeman, and leads Teresa into:
doctor		Has she stirred? The nurse shakes her head. The doctor moves to the bed. He takes Amy's wrist, feeling for her-pulse. Amy's eyes open at his touch. She stares at him, her arm hanging limply in his grasp. He smiles down at her.
****Dialogues from script :Runaway_Bride.txt****

construction worker		Your column should be so funny.
ike		Okay, I was also thinking I might write about...
lady		I'm sorry, I don't know any people like that.
ike		 Fisher?  Come on -- I know you're sitting there laughing at me.  Pick up. I want to run an idea past you.
ike		When your t-shirts stop shrinking.
man		I see photos of a lot of dead writers on these walls.  Got any living ones? I have a story to tell that could win one of them a Pulitzer.  Picture this, if you will.  A small town in Maryland, a sleepy little village, within that a hardware store...
woman		So what's in store for us in tomorrow's column?
ike		I don't know yet.  I'm kind of a last- minute man.  Ideas don't flow until an hour or two before deadline.
woman		 This is very interesting.  You get your ideas for your column from life.  You start up a conversation with a woman in a bar, attack her choice of reading material, try and get a rise out of her while you contemplate whether or not she's worth hitting on.
ike		No, I can't hit on you until I get an idea.
woman		That's flattering.
ike		No, you don't understand.
woman		I think I do understand.  So my not responding to your baiting me will inspire one of those potential bitter diatribes you love to write about women and all the things we do to drive men crazy?
ike		 I don't write bitter diatribes about women... very often.
woman		Only when the ideas aren't flowing, huh?  Well, it was very nice to meet you, one-minute man.
ike		 And it's the quality that counts.
bartender		You know, for a good looking man, you strike out a lot.
man		I've seen much worse.
ike		Excuse me?
man		The brush-off.
ike		Not as private as I thought.
bartender		Writing or wiping?
ike		Give me a pen.
man		 Ah, come on.  They deserve it.  They love you, they hate you, they're hot, they're cold, they're high, they're low...
ike		... They're up, they're down.  It's really fun making this list with you, but I've got a column to go write.
bartender		Ike.
man		 But you don't have a really superb idea! Well, there's a girl from my hometown you could write about.
bartender		 Excuse me, we don't need any new ideas.
man		She likes to dump grooms right at the altar.  They call her "The Runaway Bride".
man		She performed the travesty seven or eight times.  Right at the altar she turns around and runs like hell. Bolts.
ike		I give up.
man		She has the next victim all lined up. She's twirling another body on the spit.
man		 Imagine if you will, a small town in Maryland...
ike		 "Today is a day of profound introspection, I have been accused of using this column to direct bitter diatribes at the opposite sex!  This uncomfortable accusation has plunged me into at least fifteen minutes of serious reflection, from which I have emerged with the conclusion that, yes -- I traffic in female stereotypes."
fisher		"But how can one blame me when every time I step out my front door I meet fresh proof that the female archetypes are alive and well?  Te mother, the virgin, the whore, the crone; they're elbowing you in the subway, stealing your cabs, and overwhelming you with perfume in elevators."
elaine		"But perhaps, in fairness to the fairer sex, I do need to broaden my horizon and add some new goddesses to the pantheon: I would like to nominate for deity..."
fisher		"... The cheerleader, the coed, and the man-eater, the last of which concerns me most today."
man		 "To be fair, the man-eater isn't exactly new.  In Ancient Greece, this fearsome female was known as Erinys, the devouring death goddess.  In India, she is Kali, who likes to devour her boyfriend Shiva's entrails while her yoni devour his -- dot dot dot, never mind.  In Indonesia, the bloody-jawed man-eater is called Ragma..."
bartender		You noticed these are all countries without cable.  ".... AKA, the Runaway Bride."
peggy		 "What is unusual about Miss Carpenter is that she likes to dress her men up as grooms before she devours them.  She has already disemboweled six in a row by leaving them at the altar."... I can't ready anymore.
peggy		No, you tell her.
peggy		No.
peggy		Yeah.
maggie		 Here we go!  One antique hot water handle with the "HOT" still on it, guaranteed to fit any American Standard cast iron tub with a four-inch center made between 1924 and 1938.  In other words, I think you're out of the doghouse with Mrs. Paxton.
maggie		Alright, Mr. Paxton, I'll put it on your account.
earl		Maggie.
maggie		 You don't need an air conditioner, Earl, you just need an attic fan -- There's more in the back.
peggy		 So -- Mag -- you've seen this, huh?
maggie		 Yes, I've seen it.  And I have to say it's the rudest and most offensive... joke anybody's ever played on me!
peggy		Uh, Maggie, you told us to bachelorette jokes, so we didn't...
maggie		Um, you know, now would be a good moment to tell me this is fake.  Okay, well... I mean, I can find out... Real newspapers smear.  Phoney papers don't.
ike		 I'll put in a good word for you.
elaine		No, no, don't mention my name in there.
ike		Why?
elaine		You can go in now.
ellie		 "Anyway, I'm just dropping you big city folk this little note to say that I have thought of a ritual sacrifice that would satisfy my current appetite: Ike Graham's column on a platter.  Yours truly, Maggie Carpenter.  P.S. -- I have inclosed a list of the gross factual misrepresentations in your article.  There are fifteen."
ike		 Fully.  I like her.  She has wit.
ellie		I left four messages.  You don't return my calls.
ike		So?  I never returned your calls, even when we were married.  And what's Fisher doing here anyway?
fisher		Ellie asked me to come down to offer moral support.
ike		Since when does Ellie need moral supp--
ellie		-- It's for you, Ike.
ike		What?
ellie		Journalism lesson number one.  If you fabricate your facts, you get fired.
ike		Lesson number two.  Never work for your former spouse.
ellie		That's not nothing to do with it.  You cooked this story up and you know it.
ike		I didn't cook up a story.  I had a source.
ellie		Someone reliable, I'm sure.  A booze- hound in a bar?
fisher		In vino veritas.
ike		Don't knock drunk guys in bars.  Drunk guys in bars are good.  It means they're not driving.
ellie		No, that's what makes you unemployed.
ike		I merely write the stuff.  You're the one that serves it up.
ellie		Not anymore.  I have to draw the line.  She sent us this list.  Our lawyers say it's actionable.
ike		 I don't know, Ellie -- Firing me is going to be very tough on you.  It's going to be hard to get over.  There will be therapy bills for you.
ellie		 I already made an appointment for later today.
ike		 See?  You want custody of my job? ... Why not just consider my wrist slapped and call me when you feel I've served my time?
ellie		I'm sorry, Ike.  This is permanent.
maggie		She canned him, she canned him...
bob		Come here, Mag, and try this on.
maggie		Listen: "Dear Ms. Carpenter, I apologize to you for this unfortunate matter.  Ike Graham's column will no longer be appearing in this paper. Best of luck in you upcoming marriage!"
bob		That-a-girl!  You sacked him.  This is the weight of the pack you're going to have to carry in the Himalayas. Tell me if it's too heavy.
fisher		Ike, I really liked the Runaway Bride piece, and since I do freelance stuff for G.Q., I'm in a different position now...
ike		What are you trying to say to me, Fish?
fisher		Vindication.  How would you like to get some?  A chance to prove that, though your facts weren't entirely straight, your theory was correct.
ike		 The real story on Miss Carpenter.
fisher		All the gory details.
ike		 The anatomy of the black widow spider of Maryland.
fisher		It wouldn't be a bad way to get you back into writing feature pieces again.
ike		 This is good.  It is a good story, Fish.
fisher		 If she runs, then it's a cover story. All true.  All accurate.
ike		 Okay, you were right.  I hated my column, but I can do this assignment.
fisher		Then you've got it.  If you leave tomorrow for the hinterlands, you'll have plenty of time before her next wedding trot.
ike		"Paid vindication"  That's what I call justice.
fisher		Justice, yes.  Paid, I don't know. They like the idea, but my hands are tied with budget restraints.
ike		But I'll get my normal fee, right?
ike		You want me to do it on spec?!
ike		I think I'm in Maryberry.
maggie		Cindy, you better 86 Sprout.  He seems to be enjoying the petroleum distillates.
cindy		That's it.  Back to obedience school.
maggie		 Okay -- have a seat... gently, carefully.
peggy		 You're a goddess!
maggie		I didn't even need to change this gasket, just put in a little hydraulic fluid.
peggy		Stop it.  When you talk like that, I get turned on and it frightens me.
ike		Hello.  I'm looking for Maggie Carpenter.  There was a sign at the hardware store across the street...
peggy		Are you a reporter?
ike		 What?
peggy		 It's been our experience that anyone with some sort of gewgaw on his loafers ends up being another big city reporter wanting to interview Maggie.
ike		About her upcoming wedding and all.
peggy		No, about her getting that asshole from New York fired.
ike		I am just such a reporter.  And you are?
peggy		Peggy Phleming.  Not the ice skater.
ike		And who are these lovely ladies?
cindy		Cindy.  Maggie's unmarried cousin.
peggy		And you are?
ike		 Looking for Maggie.
peggy		Yep.  Maggie -- Someone to see you.
maggie		 Reporter?
peggy		Yup!
maggie		I hope you have a different angle. It's pretty much all been covered.
ike		Originality is my speciality.
maggie		Excellent.
peggy		Hold on -- Nobody interviews Maggie in here unless they're getting haircut.
maggie		She's the boss.
ike		Sorry, no.  I just got one.
ike		 Yes, Mrs. Pressman.
ike		I know.  Tell me something.  Do you think she's going to make it all the way this time?
maggie		She swallowed her gun.
ike		Good fact.  Well, you let me know.
maggie		Well, instead of a haircut, how about a wash?  You know, get all that city grit out of it.
ike		You'll answer my questions?
peggy		Great.
maggie		Have a seat.  Peggy, why don't you give him the special treatment that strengthens the follicles.
ike		Getting nervous?
maggie		Nervous?  Not at all!  No.  I've never been more certain in my life.  Except -- I am having all kinds of weird dreams.
ike		Weird dreams?  You're going to tell me about them?
maggie		Yes.
peggy		 Let's just put this back here for the aromatherapy.
maggie		In another one...
peggy		Hey, Pete, I'll be right with you.
maggie		I'm inside the church.  Everyone I know is there, only they're not really them. They're like Frankenstein monsters, but without the bolts coming out of their necks.  It's all very "Night of the Living Dead".  And here's the creepiest part -- I look down at my dress and it's red.  I mean, I have no idea what it means.  Red's not my color!
ike		I think you'd look good in red.
peggy		No, she's talking about your hair.
maggie		You're all ready for football season, Mr. Graham.
ike		Yes, I think I nailed the personality profile of the women of Hale.
pete		Doc's Pharmacy.  Third and Elm.  Tell him Pete sent you.  Want my hat?
ike		No thanks.
maggie		 He seems crabby.
maggie		If you're looking for Elm Street, it's that way.
ike		Thank you.
maggie		If you came down here in the pursuit of happiness, you might as well go back. Because you can't make me feel bad.
ike		I'm not here to make you feel bad.  I'm here for vindication.  In my heart...
maggie		You have one?
ike		I feel I'm right about you.  You got me fired, lady.  You destroyed my reputation and you screwed up my hair. You chew men up, spit them out and loved it.  And I'm down here to satisfy myself on that point.
maggie		Did something happen to make you care about reality?
ike		Yes.  Conviction.  Conviction that I'm onto the truth.  You're going to do the same thing to "poor bastard number four" that you did to the last three.  You're going to run again.  And I'm not leaving until you do.
maggie		You're going to be very disappointed.
ike		We'll see.
maggie		I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got to get back to work.  I still have my job.
maggie		I have nothing to hide, Mr. Graham. Talk to whoever you want.  You might actually stumble upon a fact or two.
ike		Hey, kid, I'll give you ten bucks for your hat.
walter		You know, when I only see one dog, I know I've had too much to drink.
maggie		You'll never guess who came crawling into town with his tail between his legs.
walter		In other words -- he's only human.  An he brought us a bottle of wine.
ike		They made me put my hat back on.
walter		Oh, yeah.  Scared the hell out of Skipper.
maggie		You've got to be kidding me.
bob		 It wasn't that funny.
maggie		So, the forces of good and evil have already met.
bob		I'll help you take into the kitchen.
grandma julia		Check on the crabs, Bob.
ike		Gee, I hope they don't have a fight out there.  You don't think they'll call it off...?
walter		Well, wedding cake freezes.  This we know.
ike		You know, your daughter seems...
grandma julia		Sorry.
ike		That's okay, Grandma.
walter		Like her mother.
ike		 I just can't see her leaving multiple grooms in the dust like that.
grandma julia		Oh, yes, you can.  She's has 'em all on tape.
ike		She has a tape?
walter		 Yeah.  Lee at the hotel videos wedding. I mean Maggie didn't know she was going to make the hundred-yard dash.
ike		Dad's fishing trip, Grandma's knee operation, Grandma's birthday...
walter		Gotta tell you this about my daughter. My daughter makes real good time, even in a long dress and heels.  Maggie may not be Hale's longest running joke, but she certainly is the fastest.
grandma julia		 Ha ha.
maggie		This is good, Dad, don't leave anything out.
walter		So I've come to see it as a bonus, really, that we've been able to plan, and pay for, so many weddings.
maggie		Not this one.  This one's on me.
ike		That's fair.
maggie		Despite what you think, I don't do it on purpose.  And I have no intention of doing it again.
bob		That's right, Maggie.  Just keep your eye on the ball.
ike		Ahh.
bob		 I'm the town's unofficial fitness trainer.  Big advocate of the mind and body combining for success.  You could say or you can quote me, I'm a glass half full king of guy.
maggie		 Bob's the head of the P.E. department at the high school.  And he coaches the football team.  And he's climbed Everest.
ike		 Everest.  Is that right?
maggie		Twice...
ike		Really?
maggie		 Without oxygen...
bob		My girl likes to brag about me.
ike		How romantic.
maggie		 We think so.
ike		Nothing like sharing your nuptial bed with two Sherpas and a yak.
ike		 You won't believe what I'm looking at, Fisher.  A videotape of all three train wrecks.
ike		Kamikaze!
ike		Did you see that?
maggie		No, he's no good.  Too blond.
maggie		Too dark.
ike		But he's got the Bobster's eyes.
ike		Let's see... Excuse me, isn't that cute? Ahh...
ike		Yes, I am.  And who are you?
ike		 Oh, Betty.  I take it you're going to be making the wedding cake and they say you're throwing --
maggie		 Grandma made me the cutest outfit.  I can't wait to show it to you.
ike		 A pre-wedding luau?
ike		Fun?  Fun isn't the word.
maggie		No, I'm sure he doesn't.
ike		 Thank you.  Thank you so much.
maggie		 Is that what you're going to do now? Follow me around everywhere I go?
ike		No.
ike		Bye, Betty.  Thanks.
maggie		He's not a nice person.
dennis		 Maggie, don't marry Coach!  Marry me. I love you.
maggie		You're jail bait, Dennis.  Go away. Run your laps.  Go. Go.
bob		Drive!  Drive!  From your hips, get low, get low, get low.  Next!
maggie		 What is he up to now?
bob		Ike just came by to check out the team.
ike		And talk about you.
maggie		Bob -- are you making friends with this man?
bob		I'm just bragging about how great you are.  I'm the luckiest man alive.
ike		Well -- I've got to get moving -- lot of work to do today!  I'll see you two love-birds later.
bob		See you at the wedding.
ike		You bet ya, Coach.
maggie		At the wedding?  You invite him?  Bob, don't you realize he's writing another article about me?
bob		Sure I do.  But the bet defense is a good offense, right?  You're not going to let your opponent throw you off your game.
maggie		You don't understand this guy.
bob		Let him come to the wedding.  You're not running, right?  Say it. "I'm not..."
maggie		 I'm not running.
bob		So if you're not running and Ike Graham is there to see it, then any article he writes has got to have a happy ending, right?  All we're doing is turning lemon into lemonade.
maggie		I've got news for you.  No amount of sugar and water is going to turn like Graham into something you want to take on a picnic.
bob		Where's that homemade sunshine?
maggie		Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. My last confession was... ahh...
priest		Of an impure nature?
maggie		No -- like -- I'm having a problem with that whole turn-the-other-cheek concept. I want revenge.  I want to destroy this guy's life, career, everything. On the sin scale, how big is that?  I mean, can I "Hail Mary" my way out of it?
priest		Child, any sin in one's heart is...
maggie		 The name's Maggie.  It wasn't this side of ten years ago that you had your tongue down my throat.  So don't call me "child", Brian.  It annoys me.
maggie		 Brian, open up.  Don't ignore me.
brian		You're not even Catholic, Maggie -- you really shouldn't come to confession.
maggie		I'm sorry.  I'm just so stressed out about that slime-ball reporter being in town.  I jus had to come warn you he might show up here and start asking you all kinds of ridiculous questions.
brian		Actually, he only asked me one ridiculous question.  The rest weren't so bad.
maggie		 What?  You talked to him!  Did you tell him we dated before you were a priest?
brian		Yes, yes, I'm sure I only did you good, Maggie.
maggie		What did he ask?
brian		No, no.
brian		Only respectful things.  What did we have in common back then... What kind of music did you like... Did you ruin my life when you left me standing at the altar...
maggie		And what did you say?
brian		How could I be angry at you when clearly what has happened to me is as God intended?
maggie		 Good one!  Thanks.
brian		It happens to be how I feel.
maggie		God... Of course.  I'm sorry -- I mean, I'm...  Brian -- I've got to go.  The man's a lunatic, but I know exactly where he's going next.
brian		God bless you, Maggie.
maggie		Oh, wait, my purse.
brian		He wanted to know how you used to like your eggs.
maggie		Weird.  Like after all those years you would remem--
brian		 -- Scrambled, with salt, pepper and dill.  Same as me.
maggie		 I'm really sorry that I hurt you, Brian.
brian		I'm happy here, where I'm supposed to be.  But if you ever become a Catholic, may I ask you a favor, Maggie?
maggie		Of course.
brian		Could your confess to Father Patrick from now on?
maggie		Of course.
maggie		Gill?  Lydia?  Gill?
gill		Hey -- I found it!
maggie		Found what?
gill		Mags!  Hey, look -- The tape from the Radio City Music Hall concert -- Remember that night I as trying to get Jerry to let me sit in on "Ripple"?
maggie		 ... Don't show him that picture of me at the concert in San Francisco --
gill		We went to San Francisco twice. Remember one time we had a flat tire... Which picture?
ike		 And I see there was a chill in the air.
maggie		Give me that!
ike		But the most interesting thing here is that I don't see the rose tattoo that I've heard about on your back.
gill		Ike bet me fifty bucks you don't still have it, Mags.  I said "You're on, man! Maggie loved that thing!"  And I could really use fifty bucks.
maggie		I'm not gonna show you guys anything. I am a soon-to-be-married woman.  Now give me that photograph.
ike		Sure, I would love to give this to you. Just give us one quick gander at that rose, and, I'll gladly hand it over.
maggie		Fine.  Here.
ike		Completely.
gill		Maggie?  You got it removed?
ike		Gill, I'll go ya double or nothing if was a stick-on.
gill		 Maggie?
maggie		 I'm really, really afraid of needles... It doesn't make me a bad person.
gill		Look.
ike		 Look, look, man.  I think the man is heartbroken.
maggie		He is not!
gill		I think I am.
ike		Jerry.  He'd play.  He'd play... Jerry would play his heart out.
maggie		Okay, he's on base.  Can we talk about my life now?  -- Ike's going to turn that tattoo stuff into a big deal -- that I was never serious about Gill, blah blah.  He's totally out to get me.
peggy		For what reason?  Some personal satisfaction?
maggie		That's what he says, but if he thinks that I don't realize he's writing another article, then he's an idiot.
peggy		It's probably because you got him fired.
maggie		 Ya think?
peggy		Not that he doesn't deserve to get fired... Look!  Cory's going for second!... Sneaky!
maggie		There he is.  Snoop Doggy-Dogg.
peggy		Where?
maggie		Over there.  Ten o'clock.  He's talking to our little Dennis.  Dennis will turn into one of those "sources say" things.
peggy		He looks better with that stuff out of his hair.  He's an attractive man.
maggie		I'd say you've been in the sun too long. You handle him, okay?  I could use five minutes off from that creep.
peggy		Okay, that's fine.  I can do that.
ike		Hello, Peggy Phleming, "not the ice-skater".
peggy		 That's Maggie's seat...
ike		... And this is Maggie's beer.
peggy		Have you listened to his morning show, "Wake up with ballplayer"?
ike		Not yet.  I had a phlemless morning.  I hear he's a pretty good ballplayer.
peggy		This game is pretty important to him. He made all-stars in high school, you know.
ike		That must have made you proud.
peggy		He was going with Maggie back then.  He was never one of her... I mean, they were never going to get... They just dated for a while.
ike		It's nice that they're still friends.
peggy		 Oh, sure.  That was a long time ago. See, she's not a man-hater at all. She's very supportive of men...
maggie		You've been here for three minutes. What did you do to her?
ike		You can turn that finger around.
maggie		 You misinterpret everything.  We've all been friends our whole lives.  But that's the types of relationship you wouldn't understand.
ike		Obviously, I'm not the only one who doesn't understand it.  The USS Maggie leaves quite a wake... Excuse me.
maggie		See, I cheer good.  What is he, a cheer critic?
maggie		 This guy never stops.
maggie		Lee, hey, wake up.  Give me the key to the reporter's room.  I want to snoop around.
lee		 Okay.  Second floor.
maggie		Thanks.
lee		Don't take anything big.
maggie		 Bite me, paper boy.
ike		All right, I know you're in there... You steal my research... You're messing with the first amendment now.  Open up. Open up.  You got no place to go.
ike		I want to have a very serious discussion with you as to why you're such a pain in the ass.
maggie		You do that.  And remind him he's bringing the wine to the luau.  Thanks.
maggie		Do you think I flirt with Cory?
peggy		Good morning to you, too.  You look good.
maggie		Thank you.  Do you think I flirt with Cory?
peggy		Yes.
maggie		I don't mean it.
peggy		I know.  I think sometimes you just sort of spaz-out with random excess flirtation energy and it just lands on anything male that moves.
maggie		On anything male that moves?  As opposed to anything male that doesn't move?
peggy		Like certain kinds of coral.
maggie		I'm going to kill myself.
peggy		Why?
maggie		Because you think I'm all like... "Hey man, check me out".
peggy		 No, I don't think you're like, "I'm charming and mysterious in a way that even I don't understand and something about me is crying out for protection from a big man like you".  Very hard to compete with.  Especially to us married women who have lost our mystery.
maggie		But you haven't lost your mystery! You're very mysterious!
peggy		No.  I'm weird.  Weird and mysterious are two different things.
maggie		But I'm weird.
peggy		No.  You're quirky.  Quirky and weird are two different things.
maggie		Peggy, there's distinct possibility that I might be profoundly and irreversibly screwed up.  Despite that, I love you and I can promise that I will no longer flirt with Cory, and I beg your forgiveness.
peggy		I'm not worried about you and Cory or Cory and me or even that you're irreversibly screwed up.  But, Maggie, you've been like this since we were kids.  And I think now that you are aware of it and that it hurts people's feelings, maybe it's time to move on with your life and commit to someone of your own, like Bob, if he's the one.
maggie		I think you're right.  Is there anything I can do to make it up to you?
peggy		Something that brings warmth to my heart.  Duckbill platypus.
maggie		It's only funny at Camp Birchwood at three in the morning at a tick hunt. It's not anymore.
peggy		You're right.  It's not funny now. Maybe we both grew up.
maggie		Thanks.  Will you fix my hair?
maggie		Freeze.  Hold on to those covers -- I didn't come here to see Ike Junior.
ike		I take it the desk clerk is one of your many admirers.
maggie		 How do I do it?  I'm not that beautiful.
ike		Coffee.  Now.
maggie		You're welcome.  Your notes made interesting bedtime reading -- if you like trashy fiction.  Your observations are distorted, ungrounded an incomplete. You must be very proud.
ike		I'm not a boastful man.  What's your point?
maggie		My point is that one again, you're getting it all wrong.  That won't improve your reputation any, and it's not very flattering to me either.  So, I'm going to give you a chance to write the truth.
ike		Really.
maggie		I've decided to cooperate and let you interview me.  For a thousand bucks.
ike		My magazine doesn't pay because for stories.  It's not what you call ethical.
maggie		Oh, but making up the facts as you go along is ethical?  Actually, I meant you.  You probably got severance or expenses or both.  I'll take your check. No credit cards.
ike		 You've seen the post-its.  I've already got more juicy material than I need. Why should I pay you dollar one?
maggie		Because I think you're writing on spec and with a first person interview, you might actually sell that thing.
ike		Too much.
maggie		Seven-fifty.
ike		Five hundred.
maggie		Six-fifty.
ike		Done.
maggie		Pardon the mess.  I haven't cleaned since the fifth grade.
maggie		It's a birthday present for my cousin. Put your finger in.
ike		Cindy the manicurist.
maggie		No, the other one.
ike		 This is wonderful.  You reconfigure all these industrial parts and you do something amazing with it.
maggie		I think so.
ike		I like it.  This whole thing is pretty incredible.  I think you could probably sell this lamp idea in New York.
maggie		Maybe someday.
ike		You afraid to try?
maggie		 No, I'm not afraid.  Just... Maybe someday.
ike		Well, I'm impressed.  Absolutely incredible.  I didn't expect pink and lacy, but this isn't exactly a woman's room.
maggie		What an incredible chauvinistic observation.
maggie		That's Brian's.  He took me ut canoeing on the lake and gave me the ring in a velvet box.
ike		Always a mood killer.
maggie		Still sweet.
ike		 It's a little "Silence of the Lambs" for me.  I can't believe you waited for the wedding to run.
maggie		He's an entomologist!  I thought it was very unique.
ike		Wait.  Don't tell me.  The scoreboard lit up with "Mary me, Maggie."
maggie		It was one of the most wonderful moments of my life.  Cal Ripken even applauded.
ike		 Highly suspect.
maggie		What do you mean?  It was incredibly romantic!
ike		Maybe it's just me, but -- if you got to dress it up, it doesn't ring true.
maggie		I like it.
ike		I'm a work in progress.
maggie		So?  Is that what you said to her?
ike		No.  I think I said something eloquent like, "So, uh -- maybe we should, ya know.  What do you think?"
maggie		Now that's romantic.  A proposal like that and you didn't find eternal bliss? What went wrong?
ike		I don't know.
maggie		You don't know.
ike		No.
maggie		Maybe you should ask her some time. Ever thought of that?
ike		Call me crazy, but I believe that check I gave you entitles me to ask the questions for a while.
maggie		Fair enough.  Actually...
ike		Ow!
maggie		Even with everything that's happened I've still never been married and I still deserve a beautiful dress.
ike		Agreed.
polly		 She'll be the prettiest little flower girl in your daughter's wedding.
maggie		Mr. Whittenmeyer.  Hi, Polly!
polly		Hi, Maggie.  You'll have to excuse her, Maggie.  Some of the children are afraid of you since you dragged that little boy up the aisle.
maggie		I didn't drag.  He tripped on his shoelaces.
maggie		 Actually, I would like to get this dress.
maggie		 Yes.  But I've changed my mind.
maggie		I have one thousand dollars.
maggie		Is this dress for sale?
maggie		Yeah, that's a good point.  The other dress is nice.
ike		Mrs. Whittenmeyer.  May I talk to you for a second?
ike		Perfect.  Because Miss Carpenter is here to buy one.  But not just any one. She wants that one.
polly		 It's a thousand dollars.
ike		Tough to spend money in this town.
ike		 You look... uh... You look fine.
maggie		Fine.  The newspaper's upside down. That's better than fine.
ike		Bob will be very happy.
maggie		Bob!  I almost forgot!  I have to meet Bob!
bob		Mrs. Pressman, I think we're ready to order.
bob		Let me have the garden omelette.  Egg whites only.
maggie		I'll have the same.
ike		 Of course.
maggie		What was that?  I can't order  my eggs without sarcasm?
bob		Neutral corners you two.  You're on the same team now.  Any more fighting and it's fifteen minutes in the penalty box.  That's what we're working on -- focus. Right, Maggie?  Focus on Maggie.  Focus on Bob.
maggie		 Right.
bob		 I lead Maggie through a visualization exercise.  All the sports shrinks use this head stuff.  Visualize the end zone, if you catch my drift.
ike		Tell me.  When you get to the altar, will you spike the bouquet?
maggie		You know, there's no...
ike		Well, I'm off.  A reporter's work is never done.  Mrs. Pressman, thank you.
maggie		Ike... Hi, Grandma.
ike		Gram here was going to give me the skinny on why you run from marital bliss.
grandma julia		Right, cover your ears, Netta.  It's not that she's afraid of the wedding, she's afraid of the wedding night. Innocent girls are terrified of "the one-eyed snake".  Why, when I was a virgin bride, I took a knitting needle with me into the bed...
maggie		Actually, Grandma, I charmed the one- eyed snake awhile ago.
grandma julia		Oh, yeah, I forgot.  I'll tell you one thing, your grandpa didn't forget that wedding night.  You can take your hands off your ears, Netta.  Your tea's getting cold.
maggie		Can you excuse us a minute?  May I have a word with you, please?
ike		Bye, Netta... Bye, Grandam.
maggie		I found this and didn't know if it was something interesting.
ike		 Oh, my God -- It's Miles Davis.  This is "King of Blue"!  This is the original recording.  Hard to find in good condition.  Where did you find this?
maggie		 It was in the attic.  It was jus sitting there gathering dust.
ike		It's valuable.  Hang onto it.
maggie		No.  You take it.
ike		Hmmm... Figuring out what kind of music I like and then finding me a rare album. You're not trying to soften me up, are you?
maggie		No -- I'm cleaning an attic.  I wouldn't attempt the impossible.
maggie		 C'mon.  Let's go.
walter		 I haven't had any fun since you got your driver's license...
maggie		I'm not exactly having fun, either... Steady.
walter		 Good boy, Port Hole.
maggie		His name is Skipper, Dad... Steady.
walter		I changed it.  That guy has a problem... Maggie, you can run everyone's life but your own.
ike		No.  Forget about it.  Don't even think about it.
maggie		Watch your leg, Dad.  I'm so tired of this.
ike		Why don't you let him sleep it off in the trunk. I'll take you for a ride. Then we'll come back for him.  Keep an eye on him.
drunk man		I'm too loaded.
ike		I was talking to the dog.  All right?
maggie		Okay... I'll just grab my jacket.
ike		My dad managed a business and two mistresses.  He wanted me to be a novelist.  More?
maggie		Your filter's clogged.  This takes unleaded.
ike		Can you fix it?
maggie		First I have to find some tools.  I need a half and a nine-six-tenth.
ike		 Of what?
maggie		 Wrenches.  My dad's gonna love that one.
ike		Kind of isolated.
maggie		Yeah.  It's kind of nice.
ike		There's one thing we New Yorkers know how to do is hail a cab.  If there's no cab, we walk.
maggie		I can get some tools over there.... and save the battery... There's one thing we country girls know how to do is cut across a field.  It's quicker.
ike		Snakes?  Are you serious?  I don't like snakes.  I've never even seen a snake.
maggie		Do you think there's only one right person for everybody?
ike		No.  But I think attraction is too often mistaken for rightness. Attraction is very misleading.  And if it's mutual, it's well, terribly distracting.
maggie		Yes it is.  And it doesn't mean anything.
ike		Yeah, we need a half and nine- sixteenths.
lionel		Gonna bust out of another wedding?
ike		You're sure well known around here.
fisher		 Yes, well, my theory was that she may be running because she gets attention... Negative attention is attention. Like when women whack you on the street because of your column, that's negative attention.
fisher		 No, I'm paying for the dress.  Do you think she's still gonna run?
ike		 Look -- I'll be in there later today. I'll come by and tell you all about it.
ike		 Yeah.
ike		 Okay, we'll order out.
ike		Get this man a Kamikaze.
george		Splendid dissection of Maggie Carpenter, very professional job.
ike		 You could have told me you were fiance number three.
george		And end up in the papers?  I've been humiliated enough already to last a lifetime, thank you.  I'm sorry she got you canned.
ike		Thanks.
george		She's a cacophony of contradictions.
ike		Well, I'm writing another article on the cacophony.
george		Ah, can't stay away from her, can you? Like a moth to a flame.
ike		Guess you'd know about that.  You're an entomologist, right?  How's business?
george		 Not bad.  I was traveling around studying the reproductive and migratory patterns of locusts when Maggie met me.
ike		 Neuter a locust, feed the world.
gorge		Not the world.  Just Africa and China.
george		Same as you said.  What did you call her?  A "man-eater", "a devouring death goddess."
ike		I don't think that's why she ran.
george		Why do YOU think she ran?
ike		I don't know.  I'm working on it.  I was on the wrong track.
george		And you defending her?
ike		No.  I call it like I see it.  I'm a journalist.  I'm a truth teller.
george		Unbelievable, she got to you.
ike		Oh, please!
gorge		Join the club.  Here, you need this more than me.
ike		 I'm writing an article, I'm getting paid to do this, it's going to be a cover story, it's going to be published ... The facts will be read someday.
george		Poached, just like me.
fisher		 Overpriced nice apartment and Chinese takeout.  That's New York living.
ellie		 Ike, how is the story coming?  Is she a man-eater?
fisher		Or a vegetarian?
ellie		Or does she pick "NGB'S" -- "Nice Guys, But..."  Nice guys, but I'm cheap. Nice guys, but he lives with his mom... Nice guys, but he just out of prison.
ike		No... They're interesting guys.  Each one of these guys has something going for him.  I mean, one's been up Everest. Another's become a priest.  One's a pretty good guitar player.  And this guy today tried to end world hunger, if you can believe that...
fisher		Whoa, Ike.  Getting a complex, buddy?
ellie		Fisher, let him talk.
ike		 But one of those guys -- not one of them -- knew her at all.  Each one was convinced that she was perfect for them, but they didn't see her.  And she never showed up so they couldn't see her. It's a very symbolic thing happening. She becomes what she thinks they wanted to be.
fisher		 Ike is turning sensitive and I can't bear to watch.  I'm going to make a fresh pot of tea.
ellie		 Fisher, don't forget the fortune cookies.
ike		Is that what I did to you?  Is that what happened?  Did I just not see you?
ellie		No.  No, you didn't.
ike		 Well -- I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, Ellie.
ellie		I'm sorry, too.  Wow.  That only took us between years to say.
lou trout		Welcome to our annual country luau.  As you know, Betty and I got married on the rim of the crater, Diamond Head.
peggy		Lighten up, wahine.
maggie		Lighten up, what?
peggy		This party is for you and Bob.  Get your mind off the reporter.
maggie		I haven't seen him in twenty-four hours. It just gives me the creeps a little bit. I'd feel better if I knew where he was.
peggy		 Would it?
maggie		 I like those grapes.
lou trout		Hey, Mr. Graham, welcome to our luau. What can I get you?
ike		You got something without a toy in it?
ike		Aloha.  That's a very fetching headdress you're wearing.
maggie		Where did you disappear to?
ike		Missed me bad, huh?
walter		In the tradition that has grown through the years, it is now Toast Time!  First up, our host, "A Honey of a Beekeeper", Lou Trout..
lout trout		May the groom's heart be filled with hopes and the bride's feet be filled with lead!
ted		May the back of the dress be as pretty as the front!
walter		You know the old saying, "You're not losing a daughter..."  Well, I'd like to!
ike		I don't know, give me a minute.  Are you all right with this?
maggie		Excuse me?
ike		Are you all right with this?  You think this is funny?
maggie		Yes.
ike		I don't and I don't think you should...
bob		It's a joke.  They're kidding.
ike		You want me to make a toast?  Okay... I'll give you a toast.  To Maggie's family and friends.  May you find yourselves the bull's eye of an easy target.  May you be publicly flogged for all of your bad choices and may your noses to rubbed in all of your mistakes...
cory		Hey, Bob.  I got twenty dollars bet on--
bob		Not now.
peggy		 Here.  She may need this.  It's not really Hawaii.
bob		Where'd Maggie go?
peggy		Oh, she just went to get me something from the car.
ike		I'm the only goddamn person in there pulling for you.
maggie		You humiliated me!
ike		No, Maggie, I defended you. Humiliating you is what everyone else is doing.  It's the theme of this party.
maggie		I had it under control.  Now they feel sorry for me.
ike		Well, they should.  Because they're about to watch you hang yourself again.
maggie		It's fun!  It's high.
ike		Or the sexual habits of locusts?
maggie		That was very interesting research George was doing!
ike		What kind of Dead Head gets a temporary tattoo?
maggie		I already explained about that.
ike		And where you ever really going to run the leper colony in Molokai?
maggie		 Brian told you that?
ike		Or maybe you just wanted to wear the headdress.
maggie		Every one of those times I was being supportive.  Something you won't understand.
ike		Supportive?  You weren't being supportive.  You were being scared. Just like now.  You are the most lost woman I have ever laid eyes on.
maggie		Lost!
ike		That's right.  You're so lost you don't even know how you like your eggs.
maggie		What!?
ike		With the priest, you liked them scrambled.  With the Dead Head, fried. With the bug guy, poached.  Now it's egg whites only, thank you very much.
maggie		That's called changing your mind.
ike		No, that's called not having a mind of your own.  What are you doing, Maggie? You really want to let that man drag you up Annapuma on your honeymoon?  You don't want to climb Annapuma.
maggie		Yes I do!
ike		No you don't.  You want a man who will lead you down the beach with his head over your eyes just so you can discover the feel of the sand under your feet. You want a guy who will take you into a cave with a thousand candles just to read you a poem.  You want a man to wake you up at dawn because he's burning to talk to you and he can't wait another minute to find out what you'll say.  Am I right?
maggie		Stop.  Stop it!  I'm getting married on Sunday, and you're just trying to make me run!  Why?  Because you're a cynical, exploitative, mean-hearted creep who wouldn't know real love if it bit him in the armpit!  And all you do is tear other people down and-and-and laugh at them, and criticize what they do, because you're too afraid to do anything yourself!  I read your column. You never wrote one about you.  I'm not the only one who's lost and you know it! Am I right?  Well?  Am I right?
bob		Mag.  Help me out here.  Green Bay. Right guard.
maggie		Yes.
bob		Let me take you back inside, okay?
maggie		Jerry Kramer.
cindy		Tell me, why does Maggie need another wedding rehearsal and two days before the wedding?  She's already done this.
peggy		Bob is making her visualize the ceremony.
bob		 Okay, we're ready.  Want me to have Ike leave now?
maggie		No.  No -- Actually, let's make Ike the pastor.
ike		I'd rather not.
maggie		 Hey.
bob		Team effort, Pastor Ike... Cindy, ready?  Cindy, come on.
peggy		He's going to be the pastor?
maggie		Yep.  I want him to be front and center and to watch everything.
peggy		What happened at the luau?
maggie		 What's this?
peggy		It's for the bell.
cindy		Bob's in a hurry.
peggy		Don't be nervous, Maggie.  Let us visualize.  Remember what Bob said? "Be the ball."
cindy		"Sink the putt."
peggy		"Make the shot."
cindy		"Nothing but net."
peggy		"Never say die."
maggie		Go!
bob		Honey, are you okay?
ike		 At this pace, it could be an evening wedding.
bob		Hold it!  Hold it!  I think we're taking this too fast.
maggie		 Yes, I'm spiraling through the air.
bob		Okay, I'm the pastor.  Dearly beloved, blah, blah, blah.  So on and so forth. Ra ta ta ta.  Yabada dabada.  I now pronounce you man and wife.  Kiss the bride, badum dum.  We have the crescendo that leads to us right back down the aisle and out the...
ike		 I'm sorry, Bob.  She kissed me back.
maggie		 I kissed him back.
bob		Yeah, I caught that.  Want to tell me how long this has been going on?
maggie		About a minute...?
ike		A little longer for me.
maggie		Really?
bob		What do you expect me to say to this?
ike		How about -- "I hope you'll be very happy together"?
bob		I hope you'll be very happy together.
maggie		 Take care of him.
maggie		Bob, I'm sorry!  At least I backed out before the wedding.  That's progress!
peggy		Well, Maggie -- in the words of Mrs. Pressman: "Holy moly".  Call me later.
maggie		Okay.  So... what, uh... What just happened?  Just now?  Jus then?  In there?
ike		I don't know.  I, uh -- I frankly don't even want to talk about it.
maggie		Me, either.
ike		 I love you.  I love you.
maggie		 I love you, too.
ike		Wait.  We have to talk.  We have to do some talking now.  Pull up a railing.
maggie		To who?  Are you asking me?
ike		Me?
maggie		Yes, you!
ike		 Well, you do have the dress.
maggie		And the church.
ike		And the wedding date.  There's the two of us.  So, you think... maybe... You have to go down the aisle with somebody you love and who love you back.
maggie		I'm okay with that.
ike		So am I.
maggie		So, we'll...
ted		Good night.
ike		I'm getting married.
ellie		Ike's going to get married.
cindy		I love his eyes.  I just believe they're listening to you.
peggy		His hair... any color.
grandma julia		I like his tight butt.
maggie		Grandma!
peggy		 See, this is a mature relationship. She's really found it.
meredith		The turnout for this morning's wedding is usually reserved for royalty or Hollywood stars, but Maggie Carpenter is Hale, Maryland's special star and the citizens of Hale are out in full force today.
maggie		 He's not coming.  Watch.  He's not coming.
peggy		No, no.  I saw eight geese flying in a "V".
maggie		You and your lucky geese.  You always see geese.
peggy		Not eight...
cindy		And in a "V".
maggie		Eight is good... "V" could be Victory.
cindy		Rub your ears.
peggy		Yes, rubbing your ears is very soothing. Cory does that to me when I hyperventilate.
cindy		We do it to our dog.
maggie		It's hurting.
cindy		We'll rub.
peggy		He's here!  He's here!
cindy		I'll get the dress.
maggie		He's here!... He's here!
peggy		Now's the time for calm... If you don't calm down, you won't get your dress on...  He's the one... He's the one.
maggie		This is not a good sign.
cindy		We have to hurry.  The Sunday School kids will be here soon.
julie murphy		Well, the groom just pulled up.  There was talk of a "now show", but he is here.
dina napoli		Ike Graham is here!
ike		Shoot ours so she has one with an ending.
ike		No, I'm not.
ike		Friends.  Thank you.  Thank you.
fisher		 Of course we are.  Of course.
ike		Then you'll be my best man.
fisher		Well, I'm good, I don't know if I'm best.
ike		Go talk to the pastor and he'll tell you what to do.  And someone will tell me what to do.
ellie		You always looked great in that suit... And Ike?  I'm happy for you, honey.
bob		You look awful.
ike		 Thank you.
bob		Ike.  Need help?
ike		Really?
bob		I didn't want to find out I wasn't for her in the fourth quarter.
ike		Got any last minute advice?
bob		 Maintain eye contact.
ike		 Eye contact.  Eye contact.
fisher		 I have no idea what I'm doing.
ike		Your job is... the ring.  Do you have the ring?!
fisher		I just found out I'm best man!  I'm lucky I have a suit... What's wrong?
ike		Thank you.
fisher		Hello.  I'm Fisher.
fisher		You just pull a hair from my neck.
ike		Mrs. Trout, go back to your seat!
grandma julia		Good luck, Maggie.
maggie		Thank you, Grandma.
walter		 I'm really rooting for this one.
maggie		Thank you, Dad.
cindy		Spit.
peggy		Let's go.
maggie		No sauntering down the aisle.  Just make time.  Let's just get there.
elaine		Hi, I'm Elaine from New York.
bob		Hello.  I'm Bob, Maggie's fourth attempt.
elaine		I'm sorry.
bob		That's okay.  There's a lid for every pot.  Besides, I'm comfortable with Ike. I mean, Jack Dempsey lost his heavyweight title to a New Yorker.
elaine		I know.  Gene Tunney.
dennis		They're ready, Maggie.
maggie		Just a second.
ike		 Block the doors!
maggie		There's a man coming down those steps with lots of candy in his pockets.  If you tickle him, he'll give candy.
ike		Maggie!
ike		Maggie!
ellie		Look, he's running after her.
fisher		Look, he's in pretty good shape.
ellie		Poor Ike.
ike		 Maggie!
ellie		Where do you think she's going?
fisher		Wherever it is, she'll be there by ten- thirty tomorrow.
ike		Maggie!
peggy		You okay?  I'm closing.
maggie		I'm just finishing up, too.
peggy		Want to go to Butch's for a drink or something?
maggie		 No, I'm just going to head home.
peggy		Okay.
maggie		What are you talking about?
peggy		Wedding.  Wedding.  You just have to get the rest of your ducks in a row.
maggie		Thank you.  You still think that he was....
peggy		Quick.  Very quick.
voice		 Marry me, Maggie.
maggie		 Hi, Dennis.
dennis		I am going to propose, you know.  I mean, the right way.  Soon as I turn eighteen.
maggie		You're sweet, Dennis.  But you've got to go.  I'm closing up.  Here's a candy bar and one for your brother.
dennis		I'm not giving up.   A person shouldn't give up.
walter		That's Maggie.  Home for lunch.
grandma julia		She's been doing this since the last wedding.  I don't think it's good.
maggie		Hey.  Grandma, what's for lunch?
grandma julia		Turkey and cheese.
walter		Honey, your grandmother and I were thinking about opening a wedding gift museum.
maggie		STOP!
walter		What?
maggie		 Just stop it.  Don't say another word like that.
walter		 Maggie, it's just a joke...
maggie		No.  It's my life.
walter		A harmless joke.
maggie		No, it's humiliating and you've been doing it since I was a kid.  I don't like it.  Stop.  You may not like having a daughter with problems.  But guess what?  I don't like having a father who's drunk all the time.  I'll eat in my room.
grandma julia		That needed to be said.  You know -- you're always making jokes about her, so they won't make jokes about your drinking.
maggie		I need a plan... A plan to life... What would Bruce Lee do?  He'd kick some ass...
maggie		Hello, Ike.
ike		Don't tell me.  My doorman is one of your many admires... I knew I should have given him a better Christmas gift.
maggie		I've been making friends with your cat.  Is it okay that I'm here?
ike		I don't have much choice in the matter now, do I?  But I can't speak for Italics.  Traitor!
maggie		I don't blame you for being mad...
ike		Livid is good.  So what is it, Maggie? You here on business?  I saw your lamps. They're terrific.
maggie		It's something I've always wanted to do.
ike		You actually could make breaking and entering into a new career.  So, what are you doing here?
maggie		I wanted to talk to you about why I run or ride away from things.
ike		 Does it matter?
maggie		I think so... When I was walking down the aisle?  I was  walking toward somebody who didn't have any idea who I really was.  And it was only half the other person's fault, because I had done everything to convince him that I was exactly what he wanted.  So it was good that I didn't go through with it because it would have been a lie, but you -- you knew the real me.
ike		Yes, I did.
maggie		I didn't.  And you being the one at the end of the aisle didn't just fix that.
ike		No, I couldn't fix anything...  But I still ended up chasing a truck.
maggie		I understand why you bring up the truck. Let me explain something.  The fact is, you've seen me at my worst, most embarrassing, deviously plotting, potentially but not certifiably, psychotic state.  And if you liked me then, I mean, now... I can't imagine...  Benedict.
ike		Should I be writing this down?
maggie		These are for you.
ike		Used?
maggie		They're mine.  I'm turning in my running shoes to you.
ike		This is getting serious.
maggie		And one more thing.  I know it's hard to believe there could be more.  Um...
ike		 Oh my God.  No.
maggie		No, no -- don't hide your face, this only happens once in a lifetime.  It's definitely a first to me, and you're not going to want to miss it.
ike		Maggie, I gotta think about this a little bit.
maggie		 Good.
ike		 You were not.
maggie		I was, because if you said "yes" right away, I wouldn't get to say this next part.  And I've been practicing it.  Ready?
ike		I'm listening.
maggie		 "I guarantee that we'll have tough times.  I guarantee  that at some point one or both oof us will want to get out. But I also guarantee that if I don't ask you to be mine, I'll regret it for the rest of my life. Because I know in my heart -- you're the only one for me".
ike		Pretty good speech, Maggie.
maggie		I borrowed it from this guy I know. So?
ike		Dance with me.
****Dialogues from script :Rush.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Rush_Hour.txt****

reporter		 Eager to mend its tarnished image, Los Angeles has really put out the welcome mat for tomorrow's summit. The city promises quite a party as leaders from Japan, China, South Korea, Australia, the U.S. and others begin talks for the largest free-trade treaty in history.
sam		I can't stand it -- half an hour to get to the stupid school every morning... with no music...  [Just our damn Nanny...]
driver		 [Stay in the car.]
carson		Son of a bitch!
miranda		Pete... please... we have to be up early tomorrow. Call the police.
carson		Yeah, right.
carson		 Shit!
miranda		Not again...
westec guard		Everybody... chill! Bikini boy! On the ground!
carson		Asshole was trying to boost my car!
carson		Mike -- call 911!
neighbor		Been trying...  He's the good guy, you schumcks.
carson		I hate this fuckin' town.
joy		There are six bathrooms in this house, Sam.
sam		 But only one with a smoking section.
ambassador han		 [Go change.]
ambassador han		 [You smell like a fireplace.]
governess		 Mrs. Han... I am very sick today...
javal		Very good. You may go now...
bobbi		 ...Good morning, Summit Day! It's gonna be the Super Bowl, the 4th of July, the Olympics and Woodstock all rolled into one! All over town there'll be parades, concerts, rallies, festivals... So get out there everyone, but plan your drive- time accordingly! This is Bobbi Marchfelder, your Eye in the Sky...
president		 ...It's an honor hosting my fellow leaders in Los Angeles, the capitol city of the Pacific Rim...
morning anchor		 We'll see the menu for Mayor Simpson's Brentwood barbecue, right after this...
miranda		I was watching that.
carson		If I hear one more Beach Boys song, I'll shoot myself.
carson		 I said, if we were having sex once in a while, you wouldn't need to ride that fucking bike every morning.
miranda		 Be right with you...
miranda		 Have you gotten any sleep lately?
carson		 Shop's gonna tow the car in -- goddamn ignition's trashed.
miranda		Take mine. I'll ride in with Diane.
carson		You ask me, those suckers are a lost cause.
miranda		It's not for you.
carson		You mean it's not for you.
miranda		I don't chase car thieves in my underwear. C'mon, you'd die of boredom if we ever sold this house and moved.
carson		I'd die of shock, from finding anyone dumb enough to buy the place. Even for what it's worth now.
miranda		Lots of people bought at the top of the market...
carson		That sure cheers me right up.
miranda		I don't know why we even talk about it. The city's not the problem. So we move. It wouldn't matter. What's that saying: "Wherever you go, there you are."
miranda		 I hope you're current on your tetanus booster. Was it worth it?
carson		One cut... two assholes in the hospital... Yep.
carson		 Well, another day of baby-sitting my favorite bunch of people...
miranda		Ask for a transfer.
carson		They're not gonna transfer me. You know damn well why I was bumped down to guard duty...  My outstanding people skills.
carson		I hate this fuckin' town.
joy		Can we give Lisa a ride?
lisa		Hey, Joy... Sam...
lisa		 Excellent -- I can't hear him!
sam		 Armor-plated. Bulletproof. Bomb- proof.
lisa		Perfect car for L.A.  Starts, too.
robbins		Yo, Dave the Computer Man! Actually escaped the office!
dave		I'm doin' field upgrades. Gives 'em a chance to hose out my cage.
dave		 Who's the fuckin' gargoyle?
robbins		Their Chief of Security, Colonel Lee.
sabatini		"Chuckles," as we're inclined to call him.  Friggin' graveyard shift...
robbins		Love to know what dope made it the Bureau's job to give full-time protection to foreign consulates.  Cup a mud?
dave		Not if you made it. Why don't you get Sabatini to brew the java? She's the alleged chick.
sabatini		Blow me.
dave		Where's Carson?
sabatini		On his way. Some creeps tried to rip off his Mustang last night.  They cut the ragtop.
dave		Motherfuckers...
dave		 Latest and greatest. Wireless network link-ups.
sabatini		Whoa, slow down, I'm gonna pee.
robbins		Me, too.
dave		Ingrates.
javal		You see that I'm serious in my intention, yes?  If you cooperate, you and your children will be home for dinner tonight.
colonel lee		 [You must stay here.]
ambassador han		Someone took my family!
sabatini		You got no jurisdiction outside this property!
sabatini		 Yank his fuckin' leash!
ambassador han		My men are going!
ambassador han		 It's a white telephone van, driving west on Washington Boulevard.
robbins		Keys!
sabatini		You're ridin' shotgun.
robbins		Cherry?
dave		Under the seat.
robbins		Siren?
dave		I don't know! I'm never in a fuckin' hurry..!
sabatini		Someone snatched Han's family! White phone van, westbound on Washington!
carson		Give me a secure radio!
walther		Clothes make the man.
walther		 The man makes payments on his Visa.
secretary		Mr. Walther... priority line!
walther		 I'll inform channels and get a copter in the air. For God's sake, keep it quiet. Do what you can, but don't endanger civilians or the family!
carson		 You bet -- nice and easy.
walther		 I know he left already. I'm familiar with the concept of time zones. Find his ass.
carson		 Robbins, Sabatini... Chopper's on its way.
carson		 Check it out! Ahead, on the right!
carson		 Yeah... but it seems too easy... I'll move up; he won't suspect a civilian car. Stay back, then get on his ass when I signal. We'll box him in.
carson		 If the Mod Squad gets in your way, don't be shy about getting 'em out.
sabatini		Don't puke... I hate when guys puke!
javal		I need to concentrate!
carson		 He's gonna wrap it around something!
colonel lee		You should not have interfered!
carson		I'm in no mood...
robbins		Forget about him!
carson		Let's get back to the Consulate.
javal		Does anyone need to use the rest room? This will be your last opportunity for a few hours.  And you... what is your name?
lisa		 Lisa...
javal		No, Mrs. Han, this one. Thank you.
javal		 You afford me some additional bargaining power. But not much.
javal		 The right meters indicate motion. There are pressure sensors inside the armrests and seats. The sensors don't like to get wet, so I hope you were honest about not needing to use the loo. If you make any excess movements, or try to leave your chair, the circuit will be closed.
javal		Kaboom...
javal		 Do each of you understand?
javal		 Keep your wits, and all will be fine.
walther		Carson?  Walther. Who told the Ambassador?
carson		His Security Chief.  There was a civilian with them -- fifteen-year-old girl from across the street. We're trying to reach the parents.
walther		Goddamn it...  Look, Mrs. Han was the North Korean Premier's niece! We're hearing rumors they're gonna make a major issue out of what happened here...
carson		I'm not so sure what happened here. Something smells. Asshole was acting like he wanted us to spot him...
walther		What the hell are you talking about?
walther		Ambassador Han... my deepest --
ambassador han		-- I have no wish for condolences. Just answers.
walther		As soon as we have any to give...
ambassador han		 Yoon..?!
carson		 Start a trace!
walther		 Mr. Secretary... they're alive!
colonel lee		 You are tapping our phones?!
carson		 Yeah, you didn't know. And I'm Meryl Streep.
javal		 I want you to remember the feeling you had when you thought your family was dead, and use it to inform the choices you're about to make.
carson		Say you want to talk to the kids...
ambassador han		 I need to know my children are all right.
ambassador han		There is a television in my office.
dave		Play the tape back. I might be able to pull the electronic serial number out of the subcarrier.
robbins		 Hey, great idea...
ambassador han		 P'yngyang must approve the ransom...
walther		Of course. The FBI's top Hostage Negotiator is on the way --
carson		-- Goddamn Negotiator's the last thing we need! This asshole sound like he was interested in bargaining?
walther		We have people who are experts in these situations. We really feel it would be best if you let them coordinate everything...
walther		 Let's get on it...
carson		...You're gonna just pay up, count on his good nature to return the family?!
walther		It's the President's intention to keep this quiet, move forward with the Summit, and work with the North Koreans. Jesus, you've already embarrassed the shit out of us over the phone surveillance --
carson		-- They know their phones are tapped! They tap our fucking phones!
walther		That's not the point! The point is not acknowledging it!  We got an international incident brewing, with a country we were practically at war with last year! Our best Negotiator is gonna run point. If you got a problem, you can take the goddamn rest of the day off.
carson		This Consulate is my responsibility.
walther		Not any more.
walther		 That's the Negotiator. You do the briefing.
carson		...Our worst enemy'll be the city. There are events gearing up all around town, and a dozen world leaders arriving. Add the Friday rush hour and usual L.A. bad behavior and it'll be a nightmare out there by 3 PM. It all works to the advantage of the kidnapper, hinders our pursuit efforts...  You don't agree?
miranda		I'm wondering whether to believe him when he says he's strictly motivated by money.
carson		 You see one word of Peoples'- Liberation, Holy-Jihad, Revolutionary whatever-it-is-we're-pissed-off-about- this-week bullshit in this entire letter?
miranda		I still want to check the MO against known politicals, terrorists --
carson		-- Already doing it. We're coordinating with the Secret Service, the NSA and the CIA.
miranda		Have someone talk to the LAPD, give them a cover story for the media about the crash on La Cienega.
walther		Why didn't you tell me Doctor Knoll is your wife?!
carson		 If she'd changed her name when we got married, I wouldn't have to.
miranda		 I'm so enjoying this opportunity to finally work together...
walther		Jesus, forget I asked.  Any thoughts on the kidnapper's thoughts?
miranda		Everything indicates he's working alone. And his concerns do seem to be solely about the money... so I agree that he's only using the Summit and the tension with North Korea to create extreme motivation to pay the ransom.
colonel lee		I will bring the money to him.
carson		My ass.
colonel lee		The hostages are citizens of the People's Republic of Korea --
carson		-- Hey, do I go to the torture chambers in your prisons, tell you how to do your job?
walther		All right, you're outta here! Is this the same insubordinate crap you pulled at Beverly Thrift?
carson		I'll coordinate the drop.
ambassador han		Perhaps that is better. Inspector Carson knows the terrain --
colonel lee		-- Then he can come with me.
walther		 It's settled.
carson		It sucks.
miranda		But it means we can get on with it.
miranda		 Get one thing straight, Mr. Walther. If the Bureau had listened to Pete, Beverly Thrift never would've happened.
javal		That's more like it...
operative		 ...They've got the Premier agreeing to the hard-line position --
operative		 More to follow...
dave		I wanted to be home by now, take the kids to the rally in Boyle Heights.
sabatini		We got a cabin in Big Bear. By now, L.A. was supposed to be a brown blotch in the rear-view mirror.
miranda		He'll expect a homing device --
carson		-- I expect him to expect it. He'll check the cash with an RF detector...  And I doubt the asshole will have an X-ray machine or a metal detector.
miranda		Why must you always refer generically to criminals as "assholes?"
carson		Gosh, you're right. It could undermine their self-esteem and spoil their chances for rehabilitation.
miranda		You been reading my magazines in the bathroom again?
miranda		He's really exhibiting pressured speech... big effort here to sound calm. Same with his vocabulary... if he were in control, he wouldn't feel such a need to sound that way.
carson		Just tell me if we can use it.
miranda		If we needle him he could get sloppy and give us an opening, but I'm not going to risk it. This is the worst kind of perpetrator: anything makes him deviate from his carefully- scripted plan, he could become extremely volatile.
miranda		It's real important we don't lose him. He didn't go through all the trouble of designing that bomb not to use it.
carson		Well, it ain't gonna happen.  Not again...
president		 What the hell is the big crisis?
president		 Bullshit. They're just ticked because we don't want the Chinese dragging their asses into the treaty talks.
intelligence officer		We have a covert operative in place. He reports the hard-liners and moderates in the High Command are arguing about how to respond, should the Premier's niece and her children should be killed.
president		 Respond?! Christ. What about the damn Premier?
cia chief		Which is a real possibility. Most of those old-fart Generals don't want to -more-
president		 I don't want to deal with this right now! Get our diplomats on it. Tell the North we'll pay the ransom for 'em... Placate 'em! And make damn sure we get that family back in one piece. Who's in charge in L.A.?
fbi chief		The Bureau, Sir. We have a crack team in place.
cia chief		 Carson? He was demoted from the FBI Hostage Program, couple years back. And this did happen on his watch...
fbi chief		 There's no way he could've prevented this abduction! Besides, I've got one of my top Negotiators in charge --
president		 -- Whatever. I want a total news blackout and I want this over with, quickly! Without giving those Commie little bastards any excuse to shit all over my Summit!
miranda		 Yes, please go ahead...
miranda		 -- I'm only here to see that everyone gets what they want --
carson		 Shit... no way we can set up a stake- out in... -more-
carson		 Must've bought a house same time we did.
carson		 There's about a hundred ways he can scurry off like a cockroach from here... So spread out.
dave		 Our boy's in a fuckin' ice cream truck!
dave		Son of a bitch!  He found the bleepers -- both of them!
carson		 Fuck! Okay, stay back. It's not like he'll be hard to see in that truck. Which way's he heading?
miranda		 What happened?
miranda		 All right... Carefully...
carson		Watch it! We need him alive!
colonel lee		Turn around!
carson		FBI. Call our office, they'll take care of you.
biker		I'm a taxpayer! I'm a goddamn dentist!
carson		Just don't kill yourself, you piece of shit...
carson		 Helicopter or two would be nice!
miranda		 Love to be in the loop on this...
carson		 Not just now, dear...
carson		 I coulda had a ranch... maybe some horses... but no, we moved to L.A.
carson		 He's on foot, at the base of the elevator tower!
carson		 Goddammit! He's in a blue Geo!
carson		Fingerprint it.  He's not gonna tell us where to find the hostages... -more-
walther		Figure it out?! With what?!
carson		 Get back to his van. There were no plates, but check the VIN, look it over, then meet us at the Consulate.
carson		 Go!
carson		 ...Scrounge us some bodies: National Guard, State Troopers, CHPs, local PD's, meter maids --
walther		-- They're gonna search the whole city in a goddamn hour..?!
carson		Look, I don't need you to tell me how fucked we are!
walther		Fuck you!! Every time you're on a case something explodes!
miranda		Stop! The clock's running! Arguing is a luxury we can't afford! -more-
sabatini		I need some fuckin' ink!!
ambassador han		This is impossible! How can you even begin to find them?
miranda		Well, the normal procedure is to negotiate with the perpetrator...
carson		Let's take stock. We've got a picture of where he hid the family, and recordings of his calls --
miranda		-- That's right! We can send them to our experts for analysis...
carson		 Same with his fingerprints. But that means we need high-quality image and data transmission. We can piss away ten minutes coptering this shit to our offices in Westwood, or we can use your surveillance equipment.
colonel lee		There is no surveillance equipment. This is a diplomatic facility --
carson		-- You want to play games, fine.
ambassador han		Take them upstairs.
carson		South Korean Consulate's just down the street -- want to take a listen?
carson		 Shitcan that thing, will you?!
carson		 Got a digital scanner?
colonel lee		Analog.
carson		 Dave -- get in here. Bring your computer, a city map, and the tapes of the ransom calls.
miranda		 Colonel, you saw the perp. Describe him to the Ambassador, see if it's anyone he knows.
carson		 This is Carson in L.A. There's a set of prints coming over. Narrow the search criteria: Male, thirties, Caucasian... French, Belgian, Swiss, maybe Canadian. Try kidnappers and bombers first. We need an answer in fifteen minutes.
fingerprint tech		 That yellow air out there finally rot your brain?! It's impossible!
carson		 Newman in Audio Analysis...
dave		He quit, couple weeks ago. Opened a bed and breakfast in Wyoming.
dave		 Damn... they get HBO? I'd sure like to see the fight tonight.
carson		Get those tapes transferred to a sound guy. We need ambient and background analysis, the whole enchilada.
dave		Enchilada -- you saying that because I'm Mexican?
carson		No... 'cause you're fat.
miranda		 Photo enhancement... Isn't there some amazing tech with the LAPD --
dave		-- Bronsky. Transferred to Seattle PD a month ago.
carson		Jesus H. Christ...
sabatini		I'd send it to Langley. Let the CIA earn their keep.
carson		Do it.
miranda		Given his behavior, this orange residue... I'd say Desoxyn, 25 mg. Amphetamines.
carson		Any significance?
miranda		It's consistent with the lone wolf scenario: A handful of these is pure bravery-in-a-bottle, 'til the psychosis and paranoia kick in.  We could check pharmacy records, on the remote chance he got them legally... if we had a couple of weeks, that is.
carson		 Get the Bureau on it.
miranda		Forget it. It's a waste of manpower.
carson		Look, goddammit, you start skipping no-chance-in-hell leads, we can all quit and go to the beach right now.
carson		 He grabbed the family at 8:30. The last certain visual we had was just before his van went into the alley on La Cienega at 8:42. He called the
miranda		That gives him about fifty minutes to get to his location, move and secure the hostages, and activate his time bomb.
carson		He probably waited a while to pad the time -- he wanted us know the family was still alive...  ...So these crazy bastards wouldn't throw a premature shit hemorrhage, but he didn't want to call too soon, either. I say they're within 15 to 20 minutes, via surface streets, of where we last saw them.
miranda		The most densely-populated part of the L.A. basin. This narrows it down to about 200,000 dwellings.
miranda		 He was traveling west --
carson		-- Bet he doubled back.
miranda		C'mon, that's total conjecture --
sabatini		 -- I'd trust his instincts when dealing with maniacs. He is deeply disturbed.
miranda		You're telling me?
president		 Meaning?
president		 Are they out of their fuckin' minds?! What kind of retaliation?
cia chief		They're threatening to pull a Saddam Hussein: remember the Scuds he lobbed at Jerusalem during Desert Storm?  They're talking about firing a missile into Los Angeles --
president		 -- A goddamn WHAT??
intelligence officer		Best guess is an AS-15, medium-range cruise -- their version of our Tomahawk, launched from offshore.
vice president		Still, for their purposes it's perfect: Hit somewhere in L.A., take out a city block or two...
president		 So if we know it's coming, we can knock it out of the fuckin' sky!
president		 -- You're saying we got all this lousy hardware and can't stop one goddamn missile??
president		 I want an immediate search for all ships within range.
fbi chief		We better inform the other leaders, stall on the Summit --
president		 There's no reason to panic yet -- they can't launch until after the family's confirmed dead!
cia chief		Afraid that's not the case...
intelligence officer		The North Korean Premier holds what we call a "Brinksman Switch." He's able to destroy a missile in flight, right up to the moment before it achieves its target.
cia chief		Our Op says they've timed their
fbi chief		And if the family turns up okay, they'll just make it self-destruct.
president		 Shit! I really don't need this today!
vice president		We're forgetting one thing here: the family. Intelligence is sure the North will abort their attack if Mrs. Han and her kids are safely returned?
cia chief		Absolutely. Their whole game depends on claiming a legitimate provocation.
president		 I'd like to turn 'em into a radioactive parking lot.
president		 Believe me, the North drops one in my fuckin' city, I'm dropping ten in theirs. Get some bombers in the air. And don't tell me any more bad news!
robbins		 ...Phone company decal's a fake. DMV says the van was purchased a week ago from a private party in Santa Monica. I called 'em; they said the guy paid cash, and he fits our boy's description. Signed the name "Douglas McArthur" to the Transfer of Title.
carson		 He signed the name of the Allied Commander during the Korean War. Maybe he was a political.
miranda		No. The phony ice cream truck, the booby-trapped chairs... he could've -more-
carson		 Who's got those kinds of skills: Electronics, vehicle customizing, computers, explosives?
dave		Military. Cop, maybe. Shit, your average high-school student if they're so inclined. My guess is our perp used off-the-shelf equipment for everything except the C-4, and that's only slightly harder to get than crack or heroin, if you know who to ask.
bobbi		This is Bobbi Marchfelder, your Eye in the Sky... back to you, Brent...
bobbi		 Keep... the sun... to my left!!
bobbi		 What's new on the kidnapping rumor?
cameraman		Nada. Total news blackout.
bobbi		Go back over the hill.
news pilot		We got the valley traffic report in fifteen --
bobbi		-- "Stalled vehicle! One lane closed! Sig alert..!" I'll improvise!
bobbi		 What are you lookin' at? I was the morning anchor in Houston! And I'm one break away from getting out of this stupid fuckin' whirlybird!
joy		Why us?
joy		What if something goes wrong?
carson		I'm going to the kidnapping site.
miranda		I want to talk to the witnesses.
carson		Great, we'll hire a bus.
dave		 Cellular company says he was using a phone with a cloned number.
sabatini		Big surprise. Have 'em send a list of the numbers called on the account.
dave		That's what I'm trying to get. They're saying I need a subpoena.  I'm listening to Michael fuckin' Bolton!
sabatini		Walther! Get on the horn to Justice and deal with this!
robbins		 A lot of the components are made by the same manufacturer -- a car security company.
young cop		Inspector! Look at this...  "Dragon's Breath..?"
carson		Twelve-gauge shell filled with magnesium and ignition powder. Shit's worse than napalm -- Geneva Convention outlawed it for warfare.
miranda		Then how did he get it?
carson		Easy -- you can buy 'em mail order.  Where's the Consulate's car?
young cop		 Uh... apparently it was stolen...
colonel lee		Stolen!? What is it with you people --
young cop		 -- What's this "you people" shit?
carson		 Shut up!
miranda		 He means all of us "you people."
carson		 Find it! How many bulletproof Mercedes could be cruising around Crenshaw?
young cop		You'd be surprised...
carson		I hate this fuckin' town.
carson		Wasted trip: Witnesses say he was working alone, and he was a vicious son of a bitch. Old news.
colonel lee		 And our car was stolen.
ambassador han		I felt safer when I was the Ambassador to Libya.
sabatini		Image enhancements came back.
carson		We going steady?
sabatini		The sun position tells us the windows are facing northeast.  Here's the best -- look at the glass on the prints hanging in the background. There's a reflection of a reflection, out on the street: the corner of a billboard.
carson		Looks like the wheel of a car.
miranda		We talked about these billboards, when we were car shopping! Four- door... they make a wagon, too.  Something Japanese... God, what was it? Toyota... Mazda... Honda... You thought it had no character.
carson		I thought that about all of them. C'mon, think, dammit!!
miranda		You think!! You were there, too!
carson		Call the outdoor advertising companies. Get the location of all the billboards for Japanese cars within our search parameters.
dave		 ...Peerless Auto Security. We need to know whether you've sold a large quantity of these components to any one customer, or whether you'd had any stolen recently...
operative		 ...Missile heading to L.A. has a Kipchak Warhead! Repeat: missile is Kipchak equipped! It was switched by order of --
joy		Oh, my God...
president		 So what the hell does "Kipchak" mean?
intelligence officer		Uh, it's a code name... for weapons using the Yersinia Pestis bacillus...
intelligence officer		 Kipchaks were Asian nomads. In 1347 they attacked a Genoese fort, and catapulted infected corpses over the walls. The Genoese who survived carried the disease back to Europe... and it killed half the population.
president		 Get to the goddamn point, Major.
cia chief		Seems the missile is armed with a warhead carrying the Pneumonic Plague.
president		 The Black Plague?! Every time I talk to you fuckin' guys it gets worse! What happened to this "limited retaliation" shit?
cia chief		We think one of the Hard-liners switched the warhead without the Premier's knowledge. But he's not about to take our word for it, and he's too weak to risk the humiliation of backing down.
president		 They use a biological weapon on American soil, they have to know we'll respond!
president		 What the hell are we doing in L.A.?
president		 All right. Assuming the worst... What'll happen?
intelligence officer		The warhead vents the plague bacteria above the target area, infecting about 50,000 people. First symptoms are vomiting, lymph nodes become swollen; temperature rises to 105. Victims turn deep purple from lung hemorrhaging, usually die the same day.  There are treatments -- streptomycin and tetracyclines -- but we'd be overwhelmed by the numbers and its extreme contagiousness.
cia chief		We could have 500,000 infected in a week, who knows how many after that.
president		 I'm gonna toast those fuckers! Have the Summit leaders been warned?
fbi chief		Yes, sir... no one's landing in L.A. 'til we give the all-clear.
president		 And you're sure it's safe if we can get 'em to destroy the missile in flight?
intelligence officer		The bacteria can't survive the heat of an explosion.
cia chief		I suggest none of this go any further -- not even to the agents working to find the family. Word leaks out to a city of 12 million people there's rocket full of the Plague coming at 'em, you'll create a panic of biblical proportions.
carson		Say what?
colonel lee		Perhaps someone will decide it is foolish to incur the wrath of North Korea.
carson		 Yeah, the U.S. is behind the whole thing. And we're knocking our heads, trying to find your people, just for show.
walther		Carson...
carson		Let's grab a few beers, kick back 'til five o'clock rolls by. Then maybe we can have a war over it. I think that's a great idea, seeing as how you fuckers have needed your clocks cleaned for fifty years now!
colonel lee		 Why wait until five?
miranda		Pete!  Christ, you're self-indulgent! There's nothing but anger and cynicism left inside you, so they're all you can express any more. No wonder everyone in the Bureau thinks you're such a nutcase!
carson		Hey, I'm not the only one with a rep around the office... "Dr. Knoll-It- All."
miranda		 You've been dying to tell me that...
carson		Miranda...  Shit.
robbins		 ...Yeah, Peerless Auto Security... fine... get your manager...
carson		Everyone shut up!  Guy on vacation, the Canadian --
carson		 Six foot, sandy hair, spooky eyes?
carson		 I need a full name, address, anything you got!
carson		That's appropriate...  In 30 seconds you're gonna give me Paul Javal's shoe size.
carson		 Carson...
edwards		 Ambient background sound is normal city stuff, but there's a distinct echo pattern. Your people are in or near a high-rise that's at least eight floors tall. And there are other high-rises nearby.
edwards		 One more thing: There's an emergency siren approaching at 17 seconds into the second call, passing the location
carson		Okay -- high-rises in our search area. Eight stories or higher.
miranda		Downtown, Century City, Westwood corridor, Museum Row, Mid- Wilshire... North of Sunset Strip there's a few...
carson		Sabatini! What about that billboard?
sabatini		Nothing yet! Everyone's left their goddamn offices already!
carson		 LAPD will have a record of all emergency vehicles running Code 3 at 9:32 AM. Get their starting point and their destination.
miranda		And have them narrow their foot- searches to areas around high-rises.
carson		 Where's that fuckin' address?!
dave		I'm still holdin'!
dave		 French by birth... looks like a total scumbag.
sabatini		Isn't that redundant?
dave		 Raised in Quebec. Moved to Europe; served some short stretches, petty shit... arrested for kidnapping, no conviction. Did four years in France for blowing bank vaults. Moved to U.S. last year. Clean since then.
carson		Get his Driver's License number; Social; bank accounts; charge cards; club memberships... find out what movies he rented.  Get whoever's closest to the Auto Shop to get in there, interview everybody.
miranda		This sure was a ballsy move for a car-alarm installer.
carson		Hey, he watched the news... Everyone knows the U.S. will do anything to avoid trouble with a mad-dog country.
miranda		Ambassador --
carson		-- Quit apologizing for me!
miranda		Quit giving me reasons to!
ambassador han		 On occasion, my wife has been known to kick my ankle under the table.
carson		Sounds like her aim's a little low.
dave		Address, according to the Auto Shop.
carson		 She's got the field experience.
miranda		There still could be accomplices. If there are, they'll hear us in the helicopter.
carson		There's a TV station a couple blocks away. We'll land on their pad.  K-EYE. Clear it with 'em. Have a SWAT team assemble, but tell 'em to hang back unless we need 'em.
carson		Oh, great, the media...  It's the goddamn traffic girl!
miranda		Traffic person.
bobbi		Where are you going?
carson		We can't get into that right now...
bobbi		Hey, you expect to use my station's facilities and not even tell us --
miranda		 Sorry...
bobbi		 What the fuck are you, the Barbie Corporate Ass-Lick model?
miranda		Guess what, Sister... you're about to spend the next five years in a penitentiary for interfering with a federal investigation.
station manager		Bobbi! I promised we'd respect their news blackout!
bobbi		 Figures... you dickless wonder.
station manager		I get an exclusive later, right?
carson		This works out, I'll play the fuckin' banjo for you.
carson		We're hoofing it.
sabatini		 'She's got the field experience'... To park the fuckin' car!
carson		 Whoa... FBI..!
carson		 How the hell you get here so fast?
carson		Terrific. Who else is here?
carson		Tell 'em to be cool. We're going up.  Give me your master key.
woman		What the fuck..!
miranda		Sorry...
carson		 Wait here.
carson		 I'm in. It's empty, but sit tight while I look around.
miranda		I like what you've done with the place...
colonel lee		Wait!
sabatini		Where's Carson?
colonel lee		Inside.
carson		NO! --
carson		I said keep everyone back!!
miranda		Stop it!
carson		 Get out of my sight.
bobbi		 Marchfelder.
bobbi		 You need a traffic ticket fixed?
carson		 What's the status?
carson		 Hurry it the hell up.
carson		 I should've known she'd come up.
miranda		Pete --
carson		-- "Should've." Shit, there's a familiar word.  That day... I was there soon enough. We should've rushed 'em, before they could finish setting up...
miranda		The Bureau never would've let you. They want it by the book: talk them out.
carson		Twelve bodies -- only the hostages.
miranda		You were a greenhorn. It wasn't your decision. You can't keep living as such a raw nerve, never sleeping --
carson		-- Those kids were ten years old!  Same age as the Han boy...
carson		C'mon! Who's pulling Javal's bank records? What about cross-referencing possible aliases? We got 33 minutes!
miranda		Camry! The billboard! Toyota Camry!  Where are the numbers for the outdoor ad companies?
robbins		Parker Center's making those calls.
bobbi		Turn the fuckin' camera on! DO IT!!
cameraman		Maybe it's true... probably is true. That's why they got a news blackout!
bobbi		I'll rip your miserable eyeballs out! NEWS IS OUR FUCKIN' JOB!!
bobbi		 ...A warning was radioed to U.S. Intelligence that a biological weapon, allegedly containing the deadly Pneumonic Plague, is approaching Los Angeles. While unconfirmed, the President and other leaders are all late in arriving...
dave		Finally got the call list from Javal's phone. Most aren't his; they're from the legit user who didn't know his number was cloned.
carson		Go to the bottom of the list, work back through the last 12 hours.
dave		Here's the call to the Consulate -- 965-5000.  The rest are dupes... all from the other guy...
carson		Wait... go back... the one at seven this morning...
carson		Get down!
carson		 MIRANDA!
miranda		Go..!
carson		Get the fuck out of here!
carson		Shit, it's like a Godzilla movie out here!
carson		 Miranda..!
carson		 I want you to get out of here...
miranda		 Dave? You staying on top of the research?
dave		 I can't... My kids...
dave		 Okay...
bobbi		Don't lose the Benz, moron... pull back... show the other copters around us... this is fuckin' great...
carson		...The Colonel hired Javal, made it look like he was working alone. Then he made sure Javal got killed, so we'd never find your family -- and they'd have an excuse to drop their bomb. But what's in it for 'em?
ambassador han		There are men in my government whose power depends on North Korea staying as it is: Socialist, repressive, isolated from the world. They'll resort to anything, even war, to keep it that way. They have the Hitler Syndrome: if their country cannot exist the way they want it, they would rather see it destroyed.
carson		 Negative -- his car's armored! And we need the bastard alive!!
vreeland		 Shit! Pull back!
bobbi		 Uh, I think we're gonna set down now. Back to you, Brent.
vreeland		 Out of the air, or retreat 7,000 meters from target vehicle!
joy		I always hated that guy...
carson		One of yours?  What the hell do you need heat- seeking rockets for in L.A.?
ambassador han		There could be another riot...
carson		 Dave, what do you know about...
carson		 Strela-2 anti-aircraft rockets?
dave		 I'm with ya... Strela-2. Perenosniy zenitniy raketniy kompleks. Russian factory index 9K-32-M2 --
miranda		 Stay back. LAPD's putting up a roadblock.
bobbi		Save it for someone who gives a shit!
carson		That Kraut-mobile have any weaknesses you'd like to tell me about?
ambassador han		I don't think so -- they said it was solid as a rock.
carson		 No shit...
ambassador han		 I can't believe I'm still alive...
carson		This were a Hyundai you wouldn't be.
carson		Get me out of here...
carson		 Anybody see him?
carson		 Dave... You're sure those rockets are heat-seeking?
carson		 Just keep working your leads...
carson		 This is Carson. I need a copter.
bobbi		Get this fuckin' thing in the air!  Out! Not enough room for four.
cameraman		 What am I supposed to do when the plague comes, hold my breath?
miranda		 What on earth are you thinking?
miranda		 Pete, you haven't gone... suicidal or anything on me, have you?
carson		You?! I wanted a police copter!
pilot		Just tell me what to do. I flew two tours in 'Nam.
bobbi		And he doesn't go unless I go!
carson		Wrong-o...
bobbi		I'm a respected electronic journalist, you fuckin' prick!!
carson		 Got 'im -- looks like he's headed
carson		 Pull hard to the left, on my signal...
carson		Now!
miranda		You fucking lunatic!!
pilot		Hope you got more flares than he's got rockets.
miranda		Sorry...
miranda		You're completely deranged! Playing chicken with rockets!
carson		Well, what the hell were you doing out there?
carson		Oh, for Christ's sake... Hold on!
miranda		Even if we can pry him out with...  Twelve minutes to go, I doubt he'll be very cooperative.
carson		I'll just use my outstanding people skills.
carson		 That car's like a rock, right?
miranda		Ever hear of "fuck-me" pumps? Well, these are fuck you pumps!  Where's the family?
dave		Holy shit -- Knoll-It-All's turned into Dirty Harriet!
dave		 You're sure there were no accounts in the other names I gave you?
ambassador han		Let him up.
colonel lee		Victory!
carson		 Dave...
dave		 Take a hint. We're screwed.
dave		 Wait! One of Javal's alias accounts: check for an apartment rental!
carson		 ...Have the Manager evacuate the complex. Find out which unit the family's in, but don't let anyone go in 'til we get there.
dave		 Then kick the fuckin' door down!
milton		 I'll try him in his car again...
carson		"Fuck-you" pumps??
joy		They must know we're here...
all		Help!
joy		Mother... Sam...
milton		It's a brown binder... Says "Rental Manifest." You can't miss it...
carson		 Apartment number would be real helpful, gang...
miranda		There!
carson		Okay... work with me here!
lisa		Hurry, please hurry...
carson		DON'T!
carson		 We have to go out the window.
carson		Too risky. Let's concentrate on getting you out of here.
carson		 Sound detectors?
sam		High-tech problem, low-tech solution.
carson		Pressure sensors. Use 'em in convertibles: Bad guy sits on your seat, he sets the alarm off. These are rigged backwards -- get up, you set 'em off.
sam		You a bomb expert?
carson		Nope. But I've had some car alarms in my day.  For all the goddamn good they do...
carson		 Slide your arm forward... Watch the meter... Keep the pressure on the armrest with your elbow...
carson		 It'll squeeze the sensor, duplicate the weight of your arm... Okay... pick it up.
carson		 Lean back... Carefully.
carson		 Nag, nag, nag...
carson		You'll be over in five seconds...
carson		Tell 'em I'm gonna release the hook and ride down on the line.
carson		 Release the cable from your side! Get out of here!
miranda		 Come over the railing! Grab onto the harness!
miranda		Tear the hook loose!
pilot		It'll pop the winch buckle!
miranda		Try it anyway!
carson		 ...I'll call you next week.
miranda		Who was that on the phone?
carson		The Bureau.  They want me back on the hostage team.
miranda		What did you say?
carson		Told 'em I'd sleep on it...
miranda		Working with you today was certainly... interesting, Inspector.
carson		It's my outstanding people skills.
miranda		I hate this fucking town...
****Dialogues from script :Rush_Hour_2.txt****

hu li		 Someone better call the police.
carter		 Deng wa lu yun cai-shen wu.
lee		 ...wish they all could be California... wish they all could be California girls...
carter		I warned you about playing that shit when I'm in the car.
lee		That was my CD.  Don't you ever touch a Chinese man's CD.
carter		Did you see the way those girls drove off?  I did you a favor.
lee		Those girls drove off because of you.
carter		All I did was invite them for a drink.
lee		You invited them to get naked and sacrifice a small goat.
carter		 I said that?  Which word was "goat?"
lee		You owe me a copy of the Beach Boys Greatest Hits, Volume Two.
carter		Don't be giving me attitude, Lee.  I've been here three days and we haven't done shit.  We haven't been to a club, haven't even talked to a girl.  I'm on vacation, and I want some mu-shu.
lee		Mu-shu?  You're hungry?
carter		Not Mu-shu.  Mu-shu.  I want to see some women.  Now stop playing dumb and show me the shu!
superindendent chin		Lee, there was a bombing at the American Embassy.  Two American translators were killed.
lee		Any leads?
superindendent chin		 We think it's Ricky Tan.  If you don't want to take the case, I'll understand.
lee		It's my responsibility.
carter		What was that?  Did you just pick up a case?  Did we just take another damn case on my vacation?
lee		Of course not.  My Superindendent invited us to a club tonight.  Big party.
carter		Don't be messing with me, Lee.  I will kick your ass.  I'll hit you so hard you'll end up in the Ming Dynasty.
lee		Carter, would I lie to you?
carter		That's what I'm talking about.  A real Hong Kong night club.  You want an Altoid?
lee		No.
carter		You better take one.  Your breath has been a little funky all day.  Let me look at you.
lee		No.
carter		Take this.  It's a Magnum.  You can fold it in half.
lee		I'll meet you at the bar in ten minutes. They don't like tourists in here, so try to blend in.
carter		Blend in?  I'm two feet taller than everyone here.  Where you going?
lee		Bathroom.
carter		How you boys doing tonight?
lee		 Carter, get off that stage!
carter		Are you kidding, they love me.  I'm a star, Lee.  A god to these people!
lee		This is a gangster bar, we're here undercover.
carter		I knew you were lying.
lee		I'm sorry.
carter		Damn it, why are you ruining my night? I'm just starting to have fun.  Well fine then, go ahead, pull your badge and do your thing.
lee		No, we're here for information, to find out where a man named Ricky Tan is.  We must tread softly and keep our ears open.
carter		Tread softly?  Who taught you how to roost a bar?
lee		Carter, you don't understand.  These men are Fu-Cang-Long Triads.  Part of the most deadly gang in China.
carter		Man, are you crazy?  You think that scares me?  I'm from  L.A.  We invented gangs.  We were having gang wars before anybody even thought about it.  We get royalties from other gangs.  Now gimme your badge and gun and I'll show you how it's done.
lee		No.  You are a civilian.  In China, I am Michael Jackson, and you are Toto.
carter		You mean Tito.  We had  Toto for dinner last night.
lee		You just said you're their worst nightmare - and to line their mothers up for a milking.
carter		Shit.  C'mon, get up here and help me out.
carter		Stop!  LAPD!
carter		Hang on, Lee.  I'm coming.
carter		 Freeze!  Nobody move!
lee		Try to land on your feet.
carter		I can't believe I flew ten-thousand miles for this shit.
carter		You lied to me.
lee		I'm sorry.
carter		You're sorry.  I got somebody's old chopsticks stuck in my ass, so don't tell me you're sorry.  Just take me home.
lee		No time.  There was an explosion at the American Embassy today -- two American translators were killed.
carter		So that Ricky Tan, he's the one who blew up the Embassy?
carter		I'm telling you right now, I'm tired of this shit.  There's two billion Chinese - let one of them be your partner.
lee		This won't take long.
master fu		Dragon kick!
lee		 Yes, Master.
carter		I was watching you kids.  My name is Carter, LAPD, and I'm a third degree black belt.  At least that's what I tell the girls at the Holiday Health Spa where I work out.
lee		I need your help, Master.  I'm seeking a man who used to train with you.  He's become a killer - the worst kind of animal.
master fu		Animals kill only from hunger or fear. The man you seek is lower than a serpent.  ...he kills for money.
lee		Ricky Tan?
master fu		No.  Your father.  Your father and Ricky Tan were my favorite students... and for such awful things to happen as they did --
lee		How do I find Ricky Tan?
master fu		A seeding spends its entire life reaching towards Heaven.
lee		I know, Master, but...
master fu		The answers you seek can be found in Heaven on Earth.
lee		Heaven on Earth?  Master, I don't understand.  A temple, where Heaven is on Earth?  A mountain, where Earth reaches for the --
master fu		It's a massage parlor downtown.  "Heaven on Earth."  You will find your answers there.
carter		And that's how you use the LAPD choke hold.  Now start practicing and don't make me come back here!
lee		Carter...you ready to have some fun!?
lee		Just follow my lead and act like a tourist.
carter		I am a tourist.
hostess		Good afternoon, gentlemen.
lee		 Hello.
carter		How you doin'?
lee		My friend is on vacation, from America. I want to show him a good time.
hostess		Oh, you American?
carter		That's right.
hostess		You bring American money?
carter		 Lee, this one's on me.  You save your money.
hostess		You get massage from Chinese girl before?
carter		No.  It's my first time.
hostess		You pick any girl for you and your friend.
carter		Any girl?  Okay.  Let's start with that one.
hostess		Oh yes, she's very nice.
carter		She is nice.  But I am very tense.  I'm gonna need a lot of massages.  I'll take that one, too.  How you doin', baby? And...that one in pink.  She can do my feet.
lee		What are you doing?
carter		She said I could pick any girl I want.
lee		Well, hurry up.
carter		Hey!  You don't break in front of a black man in a buffet line.
hostess		 Please put these on and wait upstairs in the quiet room.
carter		Now I'm on vacation.  I knew you'd come through, Lee.
lee		Over there -- that's Ricky Tan.
carter		That's Ricky Tan?  He's four feet tall. I'll go over with you right now, shake him down.
lee		This is a very dangerous man.
carter		I'm a dangerous man.  You're not gonna ruin my massage because of some midget in a house coat.
lee		I'm calling for back up!
carter		Ricky Tan, I've been looking all over for you.  Get up.
ricky tan		I'm busy at the moment.
carter		I said get on your feet!
ricky tan		I know you, Detective Carter, right? You're Lee's American friend.  Enjoying your visit?
carter		I'm Lee's new muscle, his right arm -- and don't let the robe fool you.  This is the only color they had left.  Now get up!
ricky tan		Lee, I've missed you, brother.  I heard about the two Americans, I'm so sorry, you must be under great pressure.
lee		You must come with me for questioning.
carter		Let's go.  I've got girls and chicken and hot oil waiting for me.
ricky tan		I don't think so...
carter		I'd like to pay you for that laptop.
ricky tan		It's no problem.  But I must excuse myself, inspector.
carter		That's Chief Inspector, he got promoted.
ricky tan		Congratulations.  And good day.
carter		 Damn!  No wonder you're pissed off.
carter		Goddamn you got a small ass.
lee		Don't look at my ass!
superindendent chin		This is still Hong Kong.
superindendent chin		Chief Inspector Lee will brief your people...
superindendent chin		 That is...Chief Inspector Lee.  The detective in charge of our investigation.
lee		Where are you going?
carter		Back to Heaven on Earth.  I need my damn passport back.  I'm going home.
lee		Fine.  Go home.  Who needs you.
carter		Why you mad at me?  You needed back-up, so I backed you up.  I was about to take out Ricky Tan and those bodyguards.
lee		Stop!  I'm sick of your bullshit!
carter		My bullshit?  I'm not the one who goes to a karaoke bar filled with gangsters! I'm not the one who goes to massage parlors to bust crime lords!
lee		It's my job!
carter		You're pathetic, man.  When's the last time you had some fun?  When's the last time you took a night off, had a date?
lee		I have plenty of dates.
carter		Really?  When's the last time you had some Mu-shu  Let's hear it, Lee, when was it?  Year of the rat?
lee		You would never understand my life. You're not Chinese.
carter		And you ain't black!
superindendent chin		Lee, this is Special Agent Sterling from the United States Secret Service.
lee		The Secret Service?  Why?
sterling		What I'm about to tell you cannot leave this room.  The men who were killed yesterday were not American translators. They were undercover U.S. customs agents trying to break a Triad smuggling ring. We don't know what they're transporting out of Hong Kong, but whatever it is, it got the agents killed.
lee		How can we help?
sterling		Stay the hell out of our way.
lee		I can get to Ricky Tan.
sterling		We know all about Tan.  That's why we're leaving him out there as bait.  We think this is a lot bigger than just Ricky Tan and his Fu-Cang-Long Triads.
carter		Captain, you're gonna have to speak up. I'm on a car phone!
captain diel		Is it true, Carter?  Are you in Hong Kong right now?
carter		Hong Kong?  I'm not in Hong Kong.  I'm in Hollywood -- right at Sunset and Vine, two minutes from the station.  How about I pick you up right now and take you to dinner?
captain diel		It's nine-thirty in the morning.
carter		Did I say dinner?  I meant diner. Biscuits and gravy, you love that shit.
captain diel		Do you know what happened yesterday, Carter?  I was officially nominated for the Commissioner's post for the LAPD. There was a dinner last night, two hundred LAPD officers were there.
carter		Two hundred cops?  Was Mario Sanchez there?  He owes me money.
captain diel		I've waited my whole life for this job, but I don't have a shot in hell of getting it.  Do you know why?
carter		Is it because of the hookers, sir?  You tell them there's no crime in being lonely.
captain diel		No, Carter.  The reason I'm screwed is because the entire department is about to find out the stolen credit cards we impounded were used to buy two first class upgrades to Hong Kong.  And what the hell is Heaven on Earth?
carter		Sir, I'm working on a big case over here -- and by the time I get back they're gonna make you Governor.  Captain, you there?  Hello?  Shit!
carter		How you doing?  Can you direct me to the Heaven on Earth massage parlor?
lee		Carter!  CARTER!
carter		How you doing?  I'm looking for Heaven on Earth.
man		You wish to spank my sister with a ping pong paddle?
carter		No man, I was just asking...
man		Wait here.  I'll go see if she's awake.
lee		All he wanted was some mu-shu.
superindendent chin		Are you okay, Lee?
lee		I'm sorry, I have to go.
carter		I'm gonna solve this case myself.  Taxi!
carter		 Follow that limo.
cab driver		Now you speak my language.
superindendent chin		Lee, we just got a call from the harbor patrol.  Ricky Tan is throwing a little party on his boat tonight.  Victoria harbor.  If you don't want to...
lee		Did you tell Sterling?
superindendent chin		Let him find out on his own.  I want the Hong Kong police handling this.
lee		Thank you.
carter		Stay here.  I'll be right back.  You understand?
cab driver		Yes.  I understand.
carter		I'm with the band.  I'm the lead singer.
carter		I got held up at a wedding in Tai Koo. Ricky here yet, I need to get his requests.
carter		Last party all he wanted was Sting -- not one person danced.  Tonight I'm doing Superfreak, I don't care what he says.  Where is he?
carter		Help?  I'm not the help, man -- I'm the star.  That's my band up there -- I control the mood, the groove, the atmosphere.
carter		How you doing, baby?  My name is Prince Mubutu from Nigeria.
isabella		Isabella Molina, from San Juan.  That seat is taken.
carter		 San Juan!  You must know my good friend Pedro Martinez Hernandez Hector Elizondo.
isabella		 I don't think so.
carter		I'm sorry, you looked like you traveled in the best circles.  But hey, I understand.  Make yourself at home, Isabella.  Champagne, caviar, whatever you want.  My ship is your ship.
isabella		This is your ship?
carter		That's right.  I'm the owner, the Captain -- you can call me El Capitan.
isabella		El Capitan?
carter		I don't want to play games with you, Isabella.  I like you.  I can see myself with you -- in one of those bathrooms over there in about five minutes.
isabella		Well, I'm very tempted.  It's such a beautiful yacht.  What's it called?
carter		Called?  What's my ship called?  Well...it's called the S.S. Minnow Johnson.
isabella		The S.S. Minow Johnson.  Funny, the name on the back was "Red Dragon."
carter		Red Dragon?  You sure about that?
isabella		I'm sure, because this is my friend's yacht.  And it's his party.
carter		Your friend's ship?  Oh, man.  I must've walked onto the wrong yacht.  I knew there was a reason my keys didn't work.
steven reign		 Who's your friend?
isabella		Somebody who got on the wrong yacht.
carter		Wait a second.  You're Steven Reign? You're big time.  You own all them big hotels.  What are you doing in Hong Kong?
steven reign		 I'm just in town for the weekend, taking in the sights.
isabella		Enjoy the party, Mr. Carter.
lee		Ricky Tan.  Where is he?
lee		The Hong Kong Police.  He killed a detective today and he's not getting away with it.  Now where is he?
carter		Yeah.  Tell us!  And don't play games or we'll kick your lying ass!
lee		Carter?
carter		Who died?
lee		You.
carter		Detective Yu?  Never met him.
lee		Not Yu.  You!
carter		Who?
lee		Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth?
carter		Nobody understands the words that are coming out of your mouth.
ricky tan		Come on, Shaq, hit a damn free-throw! You can do it, big guy.
carter		I ain't his partner, I'm a tourist.  I got proof.  See, I got a mini-bar key.
lee		 I'll meet you on the main deck in ten minutes.
carter		What, leave you alone so he can cap you?
lee		I'm okay, you go.
carter		Why the hell should you believe him?  He had us beat up.  Naked.  That's nasty shit.
lee		Remember I told you my father was a policeman?  Ricky Tan was his partner for ten years.
carter		 What the hell is going on here?
ricky tan		Despite what people suspect...what you suspect --
lee		Don't.
ricky tan		... if your father were alive, I would be turning to him now.  There is a war going on within the Triads -- and I am going to lose.  My name has been written into the book of death.
lee		The police can protect you.
ricky tan		Nobody can protect me.  I'll make a deal with you, Lee.  But only iff you'll get me out of Hong Kong.
lee		Tell me why they killed the customs agents.
ricky tan		There is a ship, in the Hong Kong Harbor...
carter		All right, get your hands up.
carter		You wanna piece of me?  C'mon, I'll give you a little LAPD ass kickin'.
lee		Hu Li!
carter		What "revenge" is he talking about?
carter		Hey, you, Secret Service Man, what are you --
carter		Fine with me.
superindendent chin		I'm sorry Lee, but my orders are to fully cooperate with the Secret Service.
lee		I'll take him.
carter		Hell no.
lee		Don't push me, Carter.  I'm in no mood for your bullshit.
carter		What are you gonna do about it, grasshopper?
lee		I'll bitch slap you into Bangkok.
carter		Give me your best shot, you flat assed mama's boy.
lee		Don't be talking about my mama.  Or my ass!
carter		I heard your mama pulls a rickshaw.
lee		No.  She's a school teacher.
carter		You're not very good at this, are you?
lee		Good at what?
carter		Forget it.
lee		Five years ago, my father was Chief Inspector working a big international smuggling case.
carter		Ask me if I give a shit.
lee		Ricky Tan killed my father.
carter		How the hell did Tan get away with it?
lee		All the evidence against him disappeared, the smuggling case was unsolved.  Tan resigned and went over to the Triads openly.
carter		 This is about more than all that, isn't it?  This is about your Daddy's last case, right?
lee		No, no, that would be crazy --
carter		You thought the "Customs Agents get blown up" and "smuggling" and "Ricky Tan" and you put it all together and came up with a five year old case. That's why you didn't tell me what we were doing...
lee		I thought you'd think it was crazy.
carter		IT IS CRAZY!
lee		I know.  I know.  I am sorry.
carter		So are you getting on the plane or not?!
lee		What?
carter		Come on, we still got time to order the Kosher meal.  Always get the kosher meal, they bring it first.
lee		I cannot go to LA...
carter		It sounds impossible --
lee		You said --
carter		-- but if somebody gave me the chance to square up my father's death, I'd go to hell to do it.
lee		Why LA?
carter		 I guess you're going to have to trust me on this one.
lee		I should go back.  Ricky Tan mentioned a boat in Hong Kong Harbor...
carter		Lee, let me introduce you to the Carter Theory of Criminal Investigation: Follow the Rich White Man.
lee		Follow the Rich White Man?
carter		Almost, but you've got to say "Rich White Man" all run together like it's one word.
lee		Follow the RichWhiteMan...
carter		Not bad.  Now every crime, somewhere, has a rich white man taking his cut. Every single one.  Now in our case, we know the rich white man is Steven Reign.
lee		Who?
carter		Big hotel billionaire.  He was on Ricky Tan's boat ordering Hu Li around just before Ricky got smoked.
lee		How do you know he's our man?
carter		Because when the shooting started he was way too cool.  See most white people, when there's shooting, they either hide in a toilet or start screaming high pitched like "Aaaahhh!!! Aaaahh!!!!
lee		You sound like that all the time.
carter		Black people keep their cool when the shit goes down.
lee		Maybe.  But not like Asians.  We never panic.
carter		Yeah, what about when Godzilla was coming?  You people were screaming your asses off.
lee		Just tell me where I can find this Steven Reign.
carter		The same place you find all RichWhiteMen.  Gefilte Fish.  Lox and bagel.  I love this stuff.  Here, try it with a smear.
carter		Yeah, that's definitely the woman from Ricky Tan's boat, and she's staying in his suite at his hotel, I told you this would work out.  They still just talking?
lee		He just left.  Kissed her on the cheek.
carter		He'll be back soon.
lee		How do you know?
carter		Look at her.  Now, wake me in an hour, I'll take over.
lee		Carter, there's something I have to tell you.  You were right about what you said in Hong Kong.  All I do is work.  Never take a day off.  It's all I have right now.
carter		Hey, I didn't mean to call you pathetic.
lee		The truth is, I haven't had any mu-shu in six months.
carter		You pull a muscle or something?
lee		My fiancee left me over the summer -- a month before our wedding.
carter		I'm sorry, Lee.  Why did she leave you?
lee		It's a long story.
carter		Let me guess, she couldn't handle the cop thing -- never knowing if you were dead or alive.  I've seen it a million times.
lee		No.  It was my singing.
carter		Excuse me?
lee		She hated my voice.  Said it drove her crazy.  I sang to her all the time - in bed - in the shower - I thought she liked it.  She finally told me it was driving her crazy.
carter		Lee, maybe it's best if we don't discuss our personal lives.  Let's die curious.
lee		She's just standing around -- not doing much.
carter		Just don't fall asleep.  Sooner or later something's gonna happen.
lee		I'll try to stay awake.  It's so boring.
carter		What did you say?
lee		Nothing.  I said nothing.
carter		Hot?  I'm freezing my ass off.
lee		I'm gonna go in the hall and get a bucket of ice.  You want some ice?
carter		What's going on?
lee		She's getting undressed.
carter		Gimme the binoculars.
lee		No.  It's not right.
carter		Gimme the binoculars or I will shoot you.
lee		What's she doing?
carter		Oh, sweet glory hallelujah...
lee		I don't want to hear this.
carter		Skirt just came off.  She's in black bra and panties -- Victoria Secret Spring Catalogue, page 27 -- wait a sec - there's a tattoo on her left thigh... it looks like Snoopy.
lee		Snoopy?  I love Snoopy.
carter		She just took her hair down.  Now she's going for the bra -- the clasp is in front -- she's using both hands.  You better get that ice.
lee		That's enough.  We shouldn't be doing this!
carter		This is our job.  We took an oath as police officers.  If we don't do this, who will?  Firemen?
lee		What?
carter		She's reaching into her panties -- something is strapped to her leg.  Oh, God...please don't let it be a dick.
lee		What is it?
carter		No, I don't believe this shit -- it's a microphone.  Lee, she's wired...
lee		I don't understand?
carter		She's walking back towards the door.
carter		Damn girl, you fine.
lee		GET DOWN!!
carter		Pick it up!
lee		It's your turn!
carter		I don't need a turn!
lee		Throw it!
hotel guests		Do you want us to hold the elevator?
carter		Get the hell away from here!
lee		Stairs!
carter		Get out of the building!
lee		Roof!
lee		Wait!  There's people down there!
carter		There's people up here!
lee		Get it out of here!
carter		Take it!
isabella		Get on your feet.
carter		I wouldn't do that!!!
lee		It's a bomb.
isabella		You see, no bomb.  Now stay away before I throw you both in jail for obstruction.
carter		Throw us in jail?  I'm about to bust you right now.
isabella		I'm an undercover agent for the United States Secret Service.
carter		How do we know you're not lying?  Let me see your badge.
lee		We can help you.  I'm a detective in Hong Kong.
isabella		I know who you are, Inspector Lee.
lee		Then you know I'm not walking away from this case.
carter		Yeah, that's right.
isabella		We need to get out of sight.  Come down to my suite.
isabella		 Look, I've been working this case for months now...
carter		So what's your story?
isabella		They think I'm a crooked customs agent.
lee		Is this a payoff?
isabella		No.  It's a sample.  You guys ever heard of the Superbill?
carter		It's a myth.  Some kind of counterfeit.
isabella		It's much more than a counterfeit.  14 out of 15 world banks can't tell the difference.  The paper is Crane linen blend -- and the bills are printed on U.S. Intaglio presses.
carter		How're they getting into the U.S. Mint to use the presses?
isabella		In 1959, the United States was very friendly with the Shah of Iran.  We wanted his oil, so for the Shah's birthday, the government gave him a gift -- a U.S. Treasury Intaglio press.  The only one to ever leave the country. Five years ago Ricky Tan bought that press on the black market.
lee		Five years ago?!  That's right before he left the force.
isabella		It wasn't hard to spot the fakes until this past year.  Then Tan got hold of one of a kind Swiss made hundred dollar plates -- and started making superbills.
lee		 And Hu Li killed him for the plates.
isabella		Yes.  They've printed and shipped one hundred million dollars, and there's only one way to spot a fake.
carter		What the hell are they going to do with a hundred million dollars in funny money?
isabella		The real question is, where are the plates?  If we can find the plates, we can stop the whole operation.
isabella		Lee and Carter are officially out of the Secret Service's way...
carter		Secret Service Agent Carter.  This is my calling, Lee. Give me six months and I'll be in Washington protecting a white guy.
lee		We both know you would never take a bullet for someone else.
carter		They don't know that.  What are they gonna do, try and shoot the President during the interview?  I'll bet Isabella can pull some strings.  You saw the way she was staring at me.
lee		She never even looked at you.
carter		You're just jealous 'cos the girl picked me.  I'm tall, dark and handsome, you're third world ugly.
lee		I am not third world ugly.  Women like me, they think I'm cute.  Like Snoopy.
carter		Snoopy is about six inches taller than you.  I'm sorry, Lee, you never had a chance.
carter		Kenny!  How you doin'?
carter		 This is where I say I'm LAPD in a loud voice, they all scream and run and shit. Watch.  It's real funny.
kenny		Come with me.
kenny		Hear you got your ass kicked in Hong Kong, James.
carter		What??  Where'd you hear that?
kenny		I got my sources.
carter		And I got mine, meaning you.  Nice how that works out.  I'm serious this time, I'm closing this place down.
kenny		James, you see my kids back there?  You know how much I'm paying for private school?  How can you come in here with this attitude, you being little Chang's godfather?
carter		Little Chang is gonna have to go visit his daddy in jail if you don't cooperate.
kenny		Jail!?  James, you better back off. Badge or no badge, I'll kick your ass.
carter		I'd like to see you try.
kenny		 We're on, then.
lee		 That's a good Twisting Tiger -- where did you learn that?
kenny		Master Ching taught me.
lee		The Praying Mantis school, in Bejing?
kenny		No.  Freddy Ching's, in Crenshaw.
lee		Baby Duck?
kenny		That's what we all used to call him when he was a kid -- cause he was always quacking.  Never shut up.
carter		I heard that.
kenny		Is this about the funny money?
carter		How'd you know?
kenny		You've been asking loud questions in all the wrong places all morning.  How come you always save me for last, James? When are you gonna learn.  Shit don't happen I don't know about.
carter		So tell me what you know.
kenny		I know Teddy Wu is cranking out a pretty good double sawbuck -- but you knew that too, didn't you?
carter		Yeah.  We already been there.  This is big, Kenny.  Benjamins.  Secret Service calls 'em superbills.  Banks can't even tell the difference.
kenny		One of my regulars lost fifty thousand dollars at the table here last week.  I was about to send my boys down to tune his ass up, when the guy comes in and pays off the whole thing.  Including the vig -- brand new sequential hundred dollar bills.  I knew something was wrong.  Cause this guy's got a regular job, no way he comes up with fifty grand in cash. But I tested the bills, infrared.  The whole thing.  And they checked out. 100%.
lee		Do you still have the bills?
kenny		I still have my lunch money from third grade.
carter		Lemme see 'em.
kenny		See.  It's perfect.
carter		All right, Kenny.  Thanks.  You're off the hook.  For now.
kenny		You sure you guys don't want to stay and have a bite?  My wife's got the best mu shu this side of Compton.
carter		 We're looking for a guy named Zing.  Is he here?
hu li		 The great Chief Inspector Lee -- I will be remembered for ridding the Triads of your petulance.
carter		I hope you just said I have no business being here, 'cos I was just leaving.
isabella		Hu Li, I think there's someone who will want to talk to them first.
carter		...oh, that's a filling right there. That's gonna cost you.
hu li		Put them in the truck.
carter		I should kill you right now, but I'm gonna let you live, 'cause you're fine, and maybe you can be reformed.
lee		Are you okay?
carter		What's the first thing I told you -- never trust nobody.  How could you fall for that shit?  I knew she was dirty.
lee		She saved our lives.
carter		For how long?  Face it, Lee, she's playing both sides.
lee		Shhh, my head hurts.
carter		I'm about to be killed and you "Shhh" me!  This wasn't my case, Lee.  Ricky Tan didn't kill my father, the Fu-Cang Long are not in South Central.  I didn't have to help you.
lee		Why did you help me?
carter		It doesn't matter.
lee		I'm not used to having a partner.
carter		We are not partners.  Between your daddy, my daddy, and the beating I just took, as far as I can tell all partners get you is dead.
lee		Well we're not friends.
carter		You got that right.  And we ain't brothers.  Maybe we should just end this right here.
lee		Fine with me.
carter		I won't talk to you, you don't talk to me.  We'll die in peace.
lee		See you in the next world.
carter		I don't believe in reincarnation.  So I won't see you in the next world.
lee		Fine.
carter		I believe in heaven.  You people believe in heaven?
lee		Yes.  We have heaven.
carter		Is it the same heaven, or is it a Chinese heaven?
lee		What's a Chinese heaven?
carter		I thought it might be like those five foot and under basketball leagues.  They don't let everybody in.
lee		I think we should stop talking.
carter		Fine by me.
lee		No.
carter		If she was the right girl, you'd be thinking about her.
lee		Mind your own business.
carter		How was the sex?
lee		There was no sex.  She was very traditional.  We were waiting until we were married.
carter		You're kidding.  No sex?  Nothing?  No mu-shu?
lee		No mu-shu.
carter		What about a little king pao chicken?
lee		No kung pao chicken.  Never.
carter		Steamed dumplings?
lee		Once in a while, steamed dumplings.  But only when she was drunk.
carter		That's rough, man.  If I don't get steamed dumplings once a week, I go crazy.
lee		Tell me the truth, Carter.  Do you think I have a good voice?
carter		Are you serious?
lee		Forget it.  It doesn't matter.
carter		As long as you're asking...I think you have a pretty good voice.
lee		I knew it.  What does she know.  You want me to sing something?
carter		That depends.  How do the Fu-Cang-Long usually kill their victims?
lee		They'll probably torture us first, shock our privates, then put two bullets in our eyes and one in the back of the head.
carter		Go ahead.  Sing your ass off.
lee		Did you happen to see the most beautiful girl in the world...and if you did, was she crying, crying...hey!
hu li		Don't worry, the plates are safe.  Yes, the dragon's been fed.
carter		Very nice.
lee		It's focus.  Every opponent has a weak spot.  You ignore everything around you, and put all your energy into one perfect strike.
carter		I'll remember that next time I'm fighting a box.
lee		Who's Benjamin?
carter		Benjamin Franklin, he discovered electricity.
lee		A Chinese man discovered electricity.
carter		No Chinese man discovered electricity.
lee		Yes he did.  He also invented the bicycle.
carter		Now that I believe.
lee		We're slowing down.  This must be it.
carter		End of the line.
lee		You've been a good friend, James Carter.
carter		Oh no you don't.  Don't you be getting corny on me, Lee.  I'll kick your ass from here to Compton.
lee		You could never kick my ass.  You mama's boy.
carter		Don't you talk about my mama.  That's more like it.
lee		This way.  I see some lights.
lee		Vegas...
carter		Lee.  I just got an idea how someone could launder a hundred million dollars in cash.
lee		Red Dragon.
carter		That was the name of Ricky Tan's boat.
lee		Let's go.
carter		Wait a second.  We can't go in like this.  Look at this place, we gotta look fly.  We gotta Mac out.
lee		What is Mac out?
carter		Follow me my Asian brother.
salesman		May I help you gentlemen?
carter		Black.  42-long.  Nothing touches this body but pure silk.  And get my partner something from the children's department.
salesman		Would your partner like silk as well?  I personally like it when a couple matches.
carter		Couple?  No, you got it wrong, there's no couple here.  Just two single police officers working a very dangerous case.
lee		Yes.  We have lots of big men chasing us.
salesman		I'm sure all the boys are chasing you two.  Don't worry, I'll make you guys the bell of the ball.
carter		This is the last time I go shopping with you.
carter		 Remember, Lee, you're a player now.  You own the place.
lee		I own the place.
carter		That looks exactly like my Uncle Darrell.
lee		Buddha is the symbol of luck and good fortune.
carter		Buddha is the symbol for fat and lazy. The man has the biggest tits in Asia.
sign		$50,000 buy in -- EVERYBODY'S A WINNER!
steven reign		A thousand years ago, a small, wealthy village in China hired a young Dragon to guard their treasure in a cave, hoping to scare off potential bandits.  Their plan worked quite well, until the people of the village started sneaking the Dragon extra food -- hoping to make him bigger and stronger.  The Dragon ate so much and grew so big -- that he eventually got stuck inside the cave -- and the treasure was stuck behind him for all eternity.  Ladies and gentlemen, I have found that lost treasure.  It is here, inside the greatest casino in the world!  Welcome to the Red Dragon, where everybody is a winner!
carter		 Give me ten dollars in nickels.
craps dealer		Winner!  Seven!
carter		Look at this place, Lee.  The biggest front in the world.
lee		Carter...here comes the rich white man.
carter		Wait here.  I'll handle this.
isabella		Put your arms around me.
lee		Excuse me?
isabella		Hold me close.  There's cameras everywhere.
lee		What's going on?
isabella		I need your help.
lee		Last time you needed my help I ended up in the back of a truck.
isabella		I'm undercover.  I had no choice.  You have to trust me.
lee		Just trying to make it look real.
isabella		Look over there.  That's the eye in the sky room.
lee		Why don't you go get them?
isabella		If I'm wrong then my cover is blown.
carter		Stevie, how's it going my man?  Somebody get a picture, we can use it for a mug shot.
steven reign		Detective Carter, you always seem to show up where you don't belong.
carter		Lemme ask you something, Steven.  And I want the truth.  Is there any way I can date your daughter?  Just dinner and a movie, maybe go listen to some jazz...
steven reign		Vegas has been my town for 30 years.  I crawled out from under the first rock. Do you really think you can intimidate me here?
carter		You're right, you're a smart guy.  Most counterfeiters only get ten cents on the dollar.  But this is an even swap.  Pure genius.
steven reign		You play games with me, Detective, and you'll lose every time.  Don't forget. The odds are always in favor of the house.
isabella		The Secret Service almost busted Reign at his casino in Macao, but the place burned down before we could move in.
lee		How do I know I can trust you?
isabella		Dip me!
lee		No.  But I'll help you.
carter		Lee, what the hell are you doing?
lee		Dancing?
carter		Dancing?  I'm out here trying to strong arm Steven Reign, putting my life on the line, and you're up here dancing with some bimbo.  Did she have a friend?
lee		It was Isabella.  She says the plates are in the soft count room.
carter		Isabella?  Are you crazy, man?  She almost got us killed.  She's setting you up again!
lee		No.  I'm going to find out.
carter		Wait a second.  There's guards all over the place.  You'll need a distraction.
lee		Try to keep them busy for five minutes.
carter		I'll give it my best shot.
craps dealer		Sir, you're aware that we require a fifty-thousand dollar buy in to gamble here this weekend?
carter		I saw the sign, I can read.  Now gimme a hundred-thousand in chips.  And a Diet Coke and some wash-n-dries.  Let's move, people, I came to play.
craps dealer		Those are five hundred dollar chips.
carter		Did you give me five-hundred dollar chips because I'm black?
craps dealer		No, I just assumed...
carter		You assumed a brother coming in here can only afford five-hundred dollars a roll, is that right?  Are you a racist?
craps dealer		No, sir.
carter		 Everyone else at the table has thousand dollar chips, but the black man gets the nickel, is that it?  Did my people survive two-hundred years of slavery so you could send us back to the cotton fields with five-hundred dollar chips? Do I look like Chicken George to you?
pit boss		Floor security, we have a problem at table nine.
carter		Answer me one question.  How come Ben Vereen isn't performing here at the hotel?  Is Ben Vereen not good enough for you people?
pit boss		Lionel Ritchie is performing here tonight.
carter		Lionel Ritchie hasn't been black since the Commodores.
pit boss		Sir, you're going to have to calm down.
carter		I have a dream, where black people and white people can gamble together without getting different chips!
lee		Hi.  How's it going?  You guys have change for a twenty?
hu li		 Open your mouth.
craps dealer		Winner six!
carter		How much is that?
craps dealer		Two-hundred thousand!
carter		Two-hundred thousand dollars?  Who wants a hundred dollars?
gambler		 I am not royalty, sir.
carter		Don't say that, we're all royalty.  My great grandmammy was Queen Nephertit -- we probably cousins, man.  How much you got on the table?
gambler		One million.
carter		Yeah, we definitely cousins now.  Who wants to blow on my hand for luck?
texan		 She's not my lady.  She's my niece.
carter		Can I come over for Thanksgiving?  Come on, baby, give me some luck.
texan		Hey, buddy, watch yourself.
carter		Don't threaten me.  I got friends in this town that will bite off your ears. Just sit tight, because I've got the dice and I am on fire!
craps dealer		Winner, seven!
carter		Let it ride!
ricky tan		Imagine a business where people hand you money.  And you hand them back absolutely nothing.
hu li		 He's going for the plates.
ricky tan		Look at this old fool, what does he think he's doing?
craps dealer		Winner!  Four, winner!
carter		I'm up a hundred and fifty-grand. That's a Ferrari.  Do they sell those here in the gift shop?  Somebody cash me out!
pit boss		Sir, we'd like to escort you to the cashier.
carter		That would be great.  Don't want any of these rich white people to jump me.
ricky tan		Chai Hu Li.  Have fun.
hu li		 In a few minutes...you'll beg me to push this button.
isabella		It's time to end this, Inspector.
hu li		Get the detonator!
carter		Lee!!
carter		Black man gets on a hot streak and you're all trippin'?
lee		 MMMMMM!!!!
carter		Check it out.  Catfight!
carter		What the HELL are you doing with tape on your face?
lee		 Bomb!!!
carter		Why didn't you tell me you had a bomb in your mouth?
lee		I did!
carter		No you didn't!
lee		Yes I did.  I said MMMMMM!
carter		What?!?!
lee		We have to get to the Penthouse.
carter		Hold on!
lee		Carter...
carter		Just GO!
lee		Are you okay?
isabella		I'm fine.
lee		I didn't know which side you were on.
isabella		Now you know.
ricky tan		American's love to gamble.  Don't they, Mr. Reign?
steven reign		I'm cutting our deal short.  I'm leaving.
ricky tan		And my plates?
steven reign		They stay with me.  I'm sure you won't have a problem with that.
ricky tan		I enjoyed that little story you told about the Dragon and the treasure.  My mother used to tell it to me all the time.  Do you know the moral of that story, Mr. Reign?
steven reign		Greed will imprison us all.
ricky tan		I hate that fortune cookie shit.
lee		Put the plates down.
carter		Will you STOP?!?!  What am I supposed to fight you with?
ricky tan		You're just like your father, Lee.  All these years hiding behind his badge.  I wanted to help him, to share with him, but he was too afraid of change.  When you think about it, I didn't really kill him.  I just put him out of his misery.
lee		Put the plates down.  It's over.
ricky tan		I don't think it's over.  There are casinos all over this country.  Let me make you a rich man, Lee.  Don't make the same mistake he did.
lee		If you reach for that gun, I'm going to kill you.
ricky tan		Don't you remember?  I'm already dead.
carter		Hey, Ricky, how's it going man?  What's up, Lee?
ricky tan		Would you like me to tell you how your father died?
carter		Lee, you okay?
ricky tan		He never begged for his life.  Or tried to make a deal.  All that he asked me, just seconds before I pulled the trigger, was that I promise not to kill you.
carter		Lee, wait a second.  It's not worth it, man.  He's making you do this.
lee		It's worth it to me.
ricky tan		Do you have it in you, Lee?  Or are you gonna spend the rest of your life hiding like your father?
carter		C'mon, Lee.  He's going to jail.  You won, now just put the gun down.
ricky tan		That's what I thought.
carter		I don't know about you, but I need a wine cooler.
hu li		 We'll go together, Inspector.
carter		Please tell me she just asked for a ride to the airport.
lee		I can't believe I flew ten-thousand miles for this shit!!
carter		We made it, man.
lee		No problem.
versace salesman		Well, there is a God after all.
limo driver		Here we are.  The Red Dragon hotel.
versace salesman		We're all going gambling and then to see Siegried and Roy.  I hope you two are feeling lucky!
carter		I saw that.  She kissed you, didn't she? You played it cool, though.  Walking away, never looking back.
lee		She's going home to New York.  I need some ice.
carter		That your gate down there?
lee		Yes.
carter		I'm this way.  I guess this is goodbye.
lee		I guess so.  Thank you, Carter.
carter		You take care of yourself, Lee.
lee		Carter, wait.  There's something I want you to have.
carter		Your father's badge?  No way, man.  I can't take this.
lee		It's okay.  I can finally let it go.
carter		In that case, I got something for you. I picked it up at the hotel.
lee		What is this?
carter		About fifty grand.  I won it at the tables.
lee		No, Carter.  I can't take this.
carter		It's okay, I got lots more.
lee		This money is evidence.
carter		Come on, Lee.  Stop being a cop for five minutes and live it up.  There must be something you want.
lee		I always wanted to go to Madison Square Garden.  See the Knicks play.
carter		New York City?
lee		First class.
carter		The Plaza Hotel?
lee		A little Mu-shu.
carter		Some Kung-Pao?
lee		Amen to that, brother.
****Dialogues from script :Rushmore.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Rust_and_Bone.txt****

****Dialogues from script :S.txt****

corey		What time is it?
sam		Early...
corey		Shit...
sam		Turn it off.
corey		 What?
sam		Turn off the car.
corey		How do you know?
sam		It smells funny.
chris		What happened?
corey		My check engine light came on, then it just started smoking, and ticking and shit.
chris		 Blew your water pump. Can't drive it.
corey		Fuck me...
chris		El Reno's just a couple miles up ahead. Can call for a tow there. C'mon, I'll give you a lift.
chris		He waves to everybody... Just kinda walks up and down.
corey		Resident nutcase?
chris		People call him Vietnam Tom.
sam		He was in the war?
chris		He thinks he was... kind of a joke, ya know?
ruth		Can I get out?
dusty		Yeah... it's the water pump.
corey		So what do we do?
dusty		I can order you up a new one. Probably be a couple days.
corey		Great. This the only show in town?
dusty		Cheapest and the best. But you want me to call the tow guy back here, no problem. Probably charge you another hundred bucks, but he'll get ya wherever you wanna go.
corey		Just go ahead and fix it.
phil		What can I do for you?
corey		We need a room.
sam		How much is it?
phil		$39 a night. How many you stayin'?
corey		Just a couple, we hope.
phil		Well... welcome to El Reno.
ruth		You get checked into the motel alright?
corey		Yep.
randy		My name's Randy. This is Mike and Jeff. Guess you already know Ruth.
corey		Corey.
sam		I'm Samantha.
corey		One of you guys mind pickin' us up a bottle of something?
randy		I think I can manage that. What do you want?
corey		I don't know. Vodka, whiskey, whatever.
randy		Be right back...
ruth		From Virginia, huh?
corey		Yep.
ruth		I saw your plates...
corey		What?
ruth		Your obviously just passin' through here.
sam		We're on the way to Vegas.
ruth		Well... you need anything besides booze, you just lemme know.
corey		Thanks a lot, man.
randy		No problem. You guys wanna come back to my place for bit? Bring your bottle, we got some weed...
sam		I'm really tired.
corey		Yeah, I think we'll just head back. Been a long day, ya know?
randy		That's cool.
sam		The sky's so beautiful here...
sam		The motel.
frank		Un-fuckin'-believable...
frank		You know how much it's gonna cost me to replace this goddamn windmill?
frank		Ya think?
frank		That whack job Tom's been squattin' up there the last couple a' months. Thinks he's the goddamn town watchman...  You think he got blown up?
phil		I saw him out in front of the motel early this morning, alive and well.
frank		 Oh, well, thank heavens...
chris		Hey...
sam		Hey.
chris		So you guys stayed here last night?
corey		One of us did.
chris		What's up with your car?
corey		It's gonna take a couple days.
chris		For a water pump?
sam		What?
chris		I was just gonna say, if you wanted, I could give you a ride back.
corey		To Middlesex, Virginia? Do you have any clue how far that is?
chris		 I got some time...
corey		We're not goin' back. Even El Reno's better than there.
corey		How much money do we have left?
sam		Not a whole lot.
corey		I can't believe your fucking parents wouldn't give you anything.
sam		They totally flipped out that I was even going. They weren't about to give me money for the big trip.
corey		We should've waited till the end of the month when my mom gets her check.
sam		She wouldn't have given you anything.
corey		I know where she keeps her cash. What's she gonna do, send her boyfriend after me?
sam		Jesus.
agatha		Here you go. Where'd you two say you were from again?
sam		Virginia.
agatha		You hear that, Ted?
ted		What?
agatha		These girls are from Virginia.
ted		I'll be damned. I'm from Reedville, if you know where abouts that is...
agatha		Anything else you need, give a holler.
jeremy		Just a coffee, please.
corey		Can we help you?
jeremy		No, no... it's just that I recognize you. I saw you by the motel. Pretty amazing, huh?
corey		I guess.
jeremy		I just made a deal with Frank Haley to buy it for seven-hundred fifty dollars.
corey		Whoop-dee-doo. What the hell are you gonna do with a friggin' meteor?
jeremy		Meteorite, actually...
corey		Have fun.
jeremy		My name's Jeremy.
corey		That's nice.
corey		What's his problem?
sam		Just keep walking.
corey		Freak...
randy		Hey, what's up?
corey		Not much... just getting stared down by creepy priest boy back there.
jeff		Father Homeijer?
mike		Don't worry, you're a little old for his taste.
jeff		Yeah, he's a fuckin' perv.
corey		 You got an extra cigarette?
randy		I'm throwin' a big party at my house tonight, you guys should come by. No excuses this time...
corey		You guys gotta come visit the club when we get all set up. We'll give you the VIP treatment, man...
mike		Sounds good to me.
corey		Give us a little time, me and Sam'll be runnin' that place, no doubt... right?
sam		Yeah. Definitely.
ruth		Fuck.
randy		What?
ruth		That pig, O'Dell.
randy		Don't worry about Ryan. He might be a cop, but he still likes to party.
ruth		I think that asshole knows I deal. You know how fucked that is?
randy		From what I hear he's got a little somethin' goin' on the side himself.
ruth		Fucking pig's a pig.
sam		What the hell...
randy		We might as well all go in now, we're already wet.
ruth		Good idea...
randy		You fall asleep down there?
chris		Thought you could maybe use this.
chris		So what's so wrong at home that you had to take off?
sam		I hate it there. It's like everyone knows everything about me, but I'm invisible at the same time. It's like the worst of both worlds.
chris		Small towns. How `bout your family?
sam		They didn't want me to leave... well, they did, but they wanted me to go away to Harvard or something like that, like my sister.
chris		What?
sam		 That's why I love Corey, she just doesn't give a shit. She does what she wants and she doesn't care what people think.
chris		You just gotta be yourself, that's all. What is it you wanna do exactly?
sam		I always thought I'd be a dancer, like in a troupe or something...
chris		No...
sam		When I was younger, my dance team was on Star Search.
chris		Really?
sam		Yeah... but I didn't go.
chris		Why not?
sam		I didn't end up dancing in the talent show where they got discovered... I didn't really feel like it at the time anyway.
chris		Huh...
sam		But that's why we're going to Vegas. There's lots of opportunities there.
chris		 Yeah, good place for it. Gettin' some practice on the way, too.
sam		Is that supposed to be like some kind of judgement or something?
chris		No, I was just-
phil		You plannin' on checkin' out today?
sam		 Uh... I, I don't know yet.
phil		Well, it's already way past checkout time, so you'd better figure it out quick.
sam		I've just gotta find Corey... and check on the car.
phil		You do whatever you have to, but if you're stayin' another night I wanna see some money up front.
trudy		I don't believe it... I still just don't believe it.
trudy		 Can I help you?
sam		Is everything okay?
trudy		No, it's not... Mount Calvary burned to the ground last night.
sam		Mount Calvary?
trudy		Father Homeijer's church.
sam		Oh... How did it happen?
trudy		The police are looking into it, but... I know it was arson.
sam		Are you able to get money wired here from my bank back home?
trudy		We don't usually work with other banks like that.
sam		I need to check my balance and get my money out. How do I do that?
trudy		You'll have to call and arrange it. You could always use Western Union. Where's your bank?
sam		Virginia.
trudy		Oh... `cause they're gonna need to have a signature.
jeremy		Hi there.
sam		Hey.
jeremy		I didn't get your name at the diner.
sam		I'm Sam.
jeremy		Jeremy.
sam		Trying to get money... not very successfully.
jeremy		I've gotta pick up some cash too. Need some supplies for the lab. I don't think I've even slept since I got my hands on that meteorite. You should come by the lab with me and check it out.
sam		I can't...
jeremy		I could let you borrow some money... if you need some.
sam		I don't even know you.
jeremy		That's okay. I trust you.
sam		Thanks anyway.
jeremy		You're sure you don't want to check out the lab?
sam		Sorry... I've gotta find Corey.
jeremy		Maybe some other time.
mike		How many cheeseburgers did we get?
ruth		Like eight.
jeff		Wait, did we get smokes?
father homeijer		They're made of silver-plated steel. A simple fire couldn't do that.
father homeijer		This is an extension of Satan's own hand... I've seen it coming.
corey		What happened to you?
sam		What happened to me...? Where the hell've you been?
corey		I crashed at Randy's. We just got food. Want a burger?
sam		My stomach's fucked up.
corey		Don't worry about it so much.
sam		The motel guy came to the room this morning all pissed off. We're probably not even gonna have enough money to pay for the car.
randy		Should I wait a minute?
jeff		We gotta get some smokes...
corey		Just go ahead. I'll catch up with you later on.
randy		Alright. Later.
sam		We just gotta figure out what we're gonna do. I don't think-
corey		 Lemme guess, you wanna go home.
sam		What?
corey		You wanna run back to mommy and daddy and say sorry so they can put you through college. Well that's real big of you, Sam, but I don't have that option.
sam		 What are you talking about?
corey		I'll go home and get the shit kicked out of me, and get my ass grabbed by my mom's boyfriend...
sam		I'm not bailing on you. Would you JUST-
corey		You can fucking sleepwalk back to Middlesex for all I care. I'm not driving you... you're a fucking drag.
sam		Fuck you, Corey.
corey		No...
corey		Can't you just look up the license plates?
corey		What about the missing boy?
corey		He was on the side of the road right before the accident.
corey		You think I was hallucinating?
corey		Like what?
chris		Get the hell outta here.
corey		What're you doing here?
chris		I had to put in a statement too. Can I give you a lift?
chris		I'm real sorry about Sam.
corey		I said some pretty shitty things to her right before it happened.
chris		I'm sure she knew you didn't mean it.
corey		Fragmentary Universe...
billy moorcroft		You need to save me, Corey.
corey		Why can't anyone see you?
billy moorcroft		If you tell them about me they'll think you're a dummy.
corey		Why me?
billy moorcroft		I didn't pick you. Just like you didn't pick me either.
corey		Nothing... I-I don't know.
phil		Go back to your room and get some sleep. You've had a tough day.
chris		Hey... how ya feelin'?
corey		Not so good.
chris		Is there anything I can do?
corey		I need some cigarettes... and maybe some food. But I don't really have any money right now.
chris		I'm off at 3:30. Meet me out behind the store.
corey		Thanks.
chris		Shouldn't you go back home?
corey		There's nothing for me to go home to. Trust me.
chris		What about Sam's funeral?
corey		What's the point? She's gone, that's it. Nothing's gonna change that...
chris		 Yeah... you need a book?
corey		Is it walking distance?
chris		I can take you.
corey		I think I'd rather walk.
chris		So you guys were real close, huh.
corey		When I moved to Virginia Sam was like the only person I could even stand to talk to.
chris		How long had you been plannin' your trip together?
corey		Not too long... kind of a last minute thing. It was good timing, `cause I don't like to stay in one place for too long, ya know?
chris		Huh...
corey		I was really surprised when Sam wanted to come, actually. I just kinda brought it up one day, and she was down...
chris		You can't think like that.
corey		It's true, isn't it?
chris		That was Sam's brother?
corey		Yeah.
chris		Her parents must be going through hell.
corey		Sam said once she wished it landed on her room instead of Donnie's.
chris		I saw something on Sam's wrist the other night... it looked like a scar.
corey		She told me it was from some accident. Put her hand through a window or something.
chris		Did you believe her?
corey		They still never found a driver to that car that hit Randy... I was standing right there. I didn't see anyone.
chris		I was pretty close too, but everything was all crazy. Whoever it was must've jumped out and took off.
corey		I found this book in Sam's backpack last night. There's a chapter where it talks about stuff like this happening. Like a guy being killed by an arrow that nobody shot, and a swordsmith getting killed by a sword he hadn't made yet. Unexplainable things, but it says there's a reason why they happen.
chris		A book...? I don't get what your talkin' about. What was the reason?
corey		It didn't say.
chris		What?
corey		Nothing.
corey		Yeah...
ruth		Randy's been a wreck since the accident.
chris		He should be. He was driving around shit-faced and somebody got killed.
ruth		You can just fuck off...
corey		She's right...
ruth		I'll get my dad.
dusty		Got some bad news for you...
corey		I need a new engine now?
dusty		I can get one in there for you. Cost you about fifteen hundred.
corey		I don't have anywhere near that much money.
chris		That's probably as much as the car's worth.
dusty		I understand. But, I already ordered the water pump, and I'll have to get paid for my time. That comes to about three-hundred total.
corey		I don't have that much either.
dusty		You think I do this for charity?
chris		You didn't do anything. What's she want a water pump for if she doesn't have an engine?
dusty		I see how it is... couple a' punks. You don't plan to pay what you owe, you can get the hell off my property right now.
corey		 Asshole.
chris		Let's go...
father homeijer		Good afternoon.
trudy		We're taking collections to help rebuild Mount Calvary after the tragic fire.
father homeijer		Any small amount you could manage would really help.
chris		Sorry.
father homeijer		God bless you.
chris		Everybody wants somethin'...
corey		What about you?
chris		What do you mean?
corey		You wouldn't give me stuff and drive me around if you didn't want something in return.
chris		Why not?
corey		`Cause that's just not how it works.
chris		Maybe you're wrong about that.
corey		See ya.
randy		Do you hate me?
corey		Huh?
randy		You think it's my fault she's dead.
corey		No...
randy		You mean it?
corey		Yeah... it wasn't your fault.
randy		What's that?
corey		Oh, it's just... something of Sam's.
randy		You wanna get outta here for a while? I got my dad's car.
randy		I've been comin' up here since I was a kid. Good place when you wanna just get away from everything.
corey		Is Ruth your girlfriend?
randy		Naw, we're just friends. She's pretty weird sometimes. Too like... intense, or something.
corey		Seems like you guys are pretty close.
randy		Yeah... don't worry about Ruth.
corey		Do you ever have a hard time telling what's real and what's not real?
randy		Sometimes... sometimes something can feel really real, but it's just your mind playing tricks on you.
corey		I've got so much shit in my head right now... I've never felt so outta control. I think I'm really goin' psycho.
randy		I got some acid from my buddy one time... this like flying eagle pyramid shit. I took two hits, and man... next thing I knew I was on the floor, curled up in ball, and Mike and Jeff were just standing there lookin' down at me. I could see this like glowing grid cutting through my brain, and I knew when it got all the way through I'd be this sketched out vegetable. I could picture my dad staring down at me in the hospital in my straightjacket, crying and shit...
corey		Jesus.
randy		I can still slip back into it sometimes, but I know now that my brain is what's making it real... and that's like a blessing and a curse, man, `cause that means you have to decide what's real and what's not.
corey		The things that feel the most real right now are... impossible. More like a dream.
randy		I know what you mean. The scariest part is thinking you're not the same person anymore. Something's changed... like your identity.
corey		What if the change is for the better?
randy		That's fucked up.
corey		I don't think I even care if I'm crazy.
randy		Let's get outta here.
corey		This is cool.
randy		Thanks.
billy moorcroft		Only one day left.
corey		What am I supposed to do?
billy moorcroft		You can do it.
corey		How?
billy moorcroft		It's easy.
ruth		Shit!
customer		I just checked aisle three.
chris		They're there. At the front, by the Trapper Keepers.
corey		I'm outta cigarettes.
chris		D'ya hear the news?
corey		What?
chris		They found that Billy Moorcroft kid. He was at Dusty's house...
corey		Everything's gonna be okay.
corey		I already saved you.
billy moorcroft		It's not over.
corey		 Why?
child psychologist		 The place for Billy to be right now is at home with his family...
billy's mother		Excuse me.
child psychologist		Oh, thank you.
billy's mother		Are you sure you don't want some more cake?
billy's father		Only family and close friends are welcome here today.
corey		I understand... I just wanted to say that I'm sorry about everything that happened to Billy. And I know it doesn't seem like it, but everything happens for a reason... and it'll all work out in the end.
randy		Corey...
corey		What happened to you?
sam		What happened to me...? Where the hell've you been?
corey		I crashed at Randy's. We just got food. Want a burger?
sam		My stomach's fucked up.
corey		Don't worry about it so much.
sam		The motel guy came to the room this MORNING-
corey		 I don't give a fuck.
sam		Excuse me?
corey		I said, I. Don't. Give. A. Fuck...
sam		Corey, you're still drunk. Don't be a fuck-ass.
jeff		Did she just call her a fuck-ass?
mike		What's a fuck-ass?
corey		See ya later, Sam.
chris		You okay?
chris		I'm really sorry, Sam.
sam		What the fuck are you talking about?
chris		All I meant was, sometimes-
sam		I know what you meant, and it's bullshit. When someone dies for no reason you can't just make one up to fill the void and make yourself feel better. It sucks, and it fucks everything up, but it doesn't mean shit beyond that.
chris		I'm sorry, I-
sam		You've obviously never lost anybody like I have, `cause if you did you'd already know that.
sam		Remnants...
sam		Hi, Tom. I like your new mask.
sam		Perfect...
jeremy		Sam? Are you okay? What are doing?
sam		I'm... yeah, I'm okay.
jeremy		You shouldn't be out here like this. C'mon, get in.
jeremy		You do that a lot?
sam		I think it's genetic or something.
jeremy		That's interesting... I've never heard of a specific genetic marker for sleepwalking.
sam		It's just that my brother used to do it too.
jeremy		He doesn't anymore?
sam		No.
jeremy		I think it's more common in children. When did your brother stop?
sam		When he died.
jeremy		I heard about your friend...
sam		Well... okay. Thanks.
jeremy		So... what are you gonna do?
sam		I don't know yet.
jeremy		I know that for every action there's an equal and opposite reaction.
sam		Yeah... I learned that in science.
jeremy		And everything in the universe is in constant motion, as the universe is constantly expanding...
sam		Yeah, but do you believe that everything happens for a reason, like in life?
jeremy		You mean like destiny?
sam		Really.
jeremy		I'm making amazing discoveries every day, practically sleeping at the lab...
sam		What happened to your arm?
jeremy		It's just a rash.
sam		BUT-
jeremy		I know you need it. It's no big deal.
sam		Thank you.
father homeijer		Any small amount you could manage would really help.
fat man		Piss off...
father homeijer		God bless you.
trudy		Oh... hello.
father homeijer		 God bless you.
sam		You wanna know what happens when you die?
sam		 Hi.
chris		I just stopped by to see how you were holdin' up.
sam		I'm okay.
chris		Sorry about the other night... I DIDN'T-
sam		I was just upset. I shouldn't have snapped at you like that.
chris		So what are you still doin' here? I figured you woulda hopped on a bus by now.
sam		I'm gonna be taking off soon, I think. I just gotta figure some stuff out. It's quiet here.
chris		I don't know if you're doin' anything later on, but...
sam		I was just on my way out. What were you gonna say?
chris		Nothin'.
sam		Okay, well... I'll see you later?
chris		Yeah, sure.
sam		Bye.
chris		Bye.
jeremy		Here's my station.
sam		That's it?
jeremy		The rest is locked away somewhere else... somewhere safe. Everyone's gonna want a piece of this thing pretty soon.
sam		No.
jeremy		It's a scanning electron microscope. It uses electrons instead of light to scan the image.
sam		And what's that?
jeremy		An unrecognizable element. I've done all the tests. It doesn't exist on the periodic table.
sam		So this is pretty major.
jeremy		This is history. I'm thinking of calling it framium.
sam		Framium?
jeremy		For my last name... Frame.
sam		What if it's like... proof of some alien life-form from another galaxy or something.
jeremy		It's very important you promise me you won't tell anyone else what I've showed you. I have to wait till just the right moment. NASA, or some secret government organization could come in here and take it away from me...
sam		I won't say anything.
jeremy		Good.
sam		There's this book I think you'd like... I got it from my physics teacher in high school.
jeremy		The study of physics has unraveled some of the most profound mysteries of the universe.
sam		It's called The Philosophy of Time Travel.
jeremy		Time travel?
sam		Yeah, but it's not really that. It's more like one scenario, or one type of scenario. I don't completely understand it...
jeremy		What do you mean?
sam		My life seems to be full of them.
jeremy		Mysteries are what make life interesting...
sam		That doesn't look good.
jeremy		I should get some Hydrocortisone.
sam		 Sorry about that.
jeremy		I'm sorry. I should've know better. You barely know me, right?
sam		And nobody really calls my Samantha. Just my mom and dad.
father homeijer		You take this street, I'll take that one?
trudy		Good luck.
father homeijer		Dusty?
father homeijer		 Dusty? I'd like to trouble you for a small donation...
father homeijer		Who's there?
television anchor		We have an update this morning on our breaking news of Billy Moorcroft, the El Reno youth who was kidnapped over 15 months ago, and rescued yesterday afternoon by Father Homeijer of Mount Calvary Church. Billy's condition at this time is considered stable...
field reporter		Father, what led you to this particular house on this particular day?
father homeijer		I was out collecting donations in order to help rebuild my church, Mount Calvary, which recently burned down. Clearly the Lord works in mysterious ways. This is nothing less than divine intervention...
agatha		Dusty Gibbens has been comin' in here for coffee ever since I can remember... gives me the shivers.
ted		They should hang guys like that. Only thing bothers me is how many of `em are still out there...
agatha		 I'll be right back with your breakfast.
chris		May I?
sam		Sure.
chris		I guess you heard.
sam		Yeah.
chris		It's so messed up... I feel bad that I recommended him now.
agatha		What can I get you, honey?
chris		Uh... sausage, eggs, coffee, please.
agatha		White or wheat?
chris		Wheat toast, please...
sam		Hey, you could've been some crazy rapist serial killer.
chris		Yeah, but everybody doesn't.
sam		I can take care of myself.
chris		I'm sure you can... but I wouldn't feel right if I didn't tell you about Jeremy.
sam		What about him?
chris		I don't know what you have goin' with him... but you shouldn't be hangin' around him. Let's just leave it at that.
sam		What makes you think you can tell me who I can and can't hang around with?
chris		It's just that I know him better than you do. He lived in my neighborhood when we were kids.
sam		So?
chris		So he used to do weird stuff... to animals.
sam		How old was he?
chris		I don't know, just a couple years. Cute little black and white-
sam		No. Jeremy.
chris		He was like nine, probably.
sam		He was just a kid, he didn't know what he was doing.
chris		When you were nine years old did you know it was wrong to put a living creature in the trash can and leave it there?
sam		Chris... you're a nice guy, but you don't have to be looking out for me. You're not my dad, you're not my big brother...
officer hines		Hey, O'Dell...
officer hines		I'm not gonna bullshit ya.
officer hines		I saw you snatch the drugs outta that house.
officer hines		Don't bullshit me either...
officer hines		How much you think you'll get when you unload it?
officer hines		I'll take forty percent this time, but from now on it's fifty-fifty.
officer hines		I got a pretty good idea this ain't the first time you done this. Won't be the last, will it?
sam		Sorry...
vietnam tom		My mom told me someday everybody would understand. She said it was my job to look out for the town... so that's what I do. That's what I always do.
sam		They're lucky to have someone to protect them.
vietnam tom		I'm used to it... I'm lucky to have a job to do. Some people don't have any reason to be here at all.
sam		I know what you mean...
vietnam tom		You're more important than all of us.
sam		Do you like to read?
jeremy		Sam...
sam		Oh, hi Jeremy.
jeremy		Hi... sorry.
sam		That's okay, what's up?
jeremy		Nothing... just that I haven't see you around for the past few days. I was worried. I thought you might've taken off.
sam		No... I've been around. Going for lots of walks.
jeremy		I stopped by the motel.
sam		Like I said, I've been in and out.
jeremy		Well, there's something I wanted to ask you. You know that book you mentioned?
sam		Yeah...
jeremy		I'd really love to check it out.
sam		Oh...
jeremy		You said you'd show it to me sometime, and I've got a hunch it could really help me in some of my studies related to-
sam		I don't have it anymore.
jeremy		What?
sam		I kind of... gave it to someone.
jeremy		To who? Why?
sam		I'm sorry. I just... forgot that I said you could borrow it, and this GUY-
jeremy		What guy?
sam		Well... that Vietnam Tom guy.
jeremy		Vietnam Tom!? You gave away the book to Vietnam Tom!?
sam		It's just a book...
jeremy		He's a fucking bum! And you chose him over me!?
sam		No... I just-
chris		That's enough.
jeremy		This is none of your business.
chris		It is, actually. You're disturbing my customers. Get out.
sam		 You didn't have to do that.
chris		Just doin' my job.
trudy		I never had any doubts in you, or in the Lord.
father homeijer		I know that. And we both truly appreciate all your faith and hard work...
trudy		One more glass won't hurt you. You deserve it, Father...
officer hines		Where the hell are they?
vietnam tom		Why do you talk to me?
sam		Same reason you talk to me...
vietnam tom		Why can't other people?
sam		They will. Only one day left.
father homeijer		Trudy...
trudy		I see the way you look at me, Father...
trudy		I feel like such an idiot...
officer hines		What the fuck-
young officer		We found this on him...
jeremy		Hi, Sam...
sam		That was pretty weird.
jeremy		I know. I just...
sam		It's alright.
jeremy		I was wondering if you'd let me make it up to you.
sam		You don't need to-
jeremy		Please... let me take you to watch the fireworks tonight.
sam		I don't think so.
jeremy		It's gonna be spectacular. There's gonna be a meteor shower that coincides with the show... I mean, how often does that happen?
sam		I was supposed to see `em with Chris, but... he's stuck at work.
jeremy		So, what do you say? Will you go with me?
sam		Gimme a sec. Lemme grab my sweatshirt...
sam		Shouldn't we go back out there where we can see?
jeremy		No, this'll be perfect. See right there?
sam		So what's in the bag?
jeremy		You'll see...
sam		They're pretty.
jeremy		You wanna try one?
sam		Ow!
jeremy		Drop it!
sam		I think so...
jeremy		You need to get that covered...
sam		What are you doing?
jeremy		It's okay...
jeremy		How's it feel?
sam		A little better...
jeremy		I barely even notice it anymore. I'm sure it'll go away soon.
sam		Are you fucking kidding me?
jeremy		Do you think I'm disgusting?
sam		No... I just think you should get it looked at-
jeremy		So you do find me disgusting. Which is it, Sam, I can't take much more of this shit!
sam		Jesus Christ...
jeremy		Come here!
jeremy		Sam! Stop!
sam		Why are you doing this?
jeremy		I just wanna talk to you!
jeremy		Sam?...
chris		Where the hell is Sam?
jeremy		 I don't know... I don't know...
chris		No...
sam		Oh my God...
frank		I don't believe it...
frank		Do I look like the type of guy that's gonna try and profit off another man's death? You should be ashamed of yourself.
corey		What are you doing?
chris		Hey...
sam		Hey.
chris		So you guys stayed here last night?
corey		One of us did.
chris		What's up with your car?
corey		It's gonna take a couple days.
chris		For a water pump?
sam		What?
chris		I was just gonna say, if you wanted, I could give you a ride back.
corey		To Middlesex, Virginia? Do you-
sam		 I'll go.
corey		 What?
sam		I think I wanna go.
corey		Things get a little tough, you're just gonna give up?
sam		It's not like that... You should come too.
corey		Fuck that. I'll wait for my car and stick to the plan. Do whatever the fuck you want.
sam		Corey...
chris		Sorry to screw you guys up.
sam		It's alright. She can take care of herself... she's good at it. I've gotta go home.
****Dialogues from script :Saint.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Salton_Sea.txt****

fade out.		 FADE IN.
nancy		It ain't right
teresa		You think?
nancy		Something's off.
teresa		We can do better.
kujo		So the alphabet, I mean look at it, there's 26 letters.  Why not 27 or 28 or 106?  And the vowels: a, e, i, o, u. What the hell is up with that?
creeper		And sometimes y.
kujo		What I'm saying is that I love it! It's great. I could go on all night about it.
danny		How the hell did we get this detail?
jimmy		Guess it's our turn.
danny		What time is it?
jimmy		Twelve
danny		Midnight?
danny		Where to?
jimmy		I know a guy.
danny		Lead the way.
jimmy		Nice day
danny		I hadn't noticed.  I've seen you around.  What's your name?
jimmy		Jimmy.  Everyone calls me Jimmy the Finn.
danny		Why's that?
jimmy		My features. They're Finnish.
danny		You don't say.
jimmy		Finland is a country.
danny		Well, Jimmy the Finn, let's go score some gack.
jimmy		Bobby?
bobby		Shhh.
jimmy		 What?
bobby		The spiders.
bobby		Aha! Yeah!  You thought you could fuck with Bobby, you thought you could fuck with Bobby, you thought you could fuck with Bobby!
jimmy		It's me ... Jimmy
bobby		Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy. Rhymes with Simmy.
jimmy		Yeah.
bobby		What can I do for you?
jimmy		Um, coupla' eight balls oughta do us.
bobby		Don't pay her no mind.
jimmy		Hey man, take it easy.
bobby		What?
jimmy		Come on.  Ease off the girl.
bobby		Did you bring the plastic men?
bobby		Did ... you ... bring ... the ... plastic ... men?
danny		Nah, we didn't bring 'em.  That's just your good crank talking, brother.
bobby		 You bring the plastic men?
danny		Like I said.
jimmy		Fuck man. Come on, Bobby.
bobby		Bobby, Bobby, Bobby.  Rhymes with ... 
danny		Hobby?
bobby		That's a good man. I like that.
danny		 Hey, Bobby, look .. What you got going with your old lay, it's none of our business. We're just a couple of dope fiends trying to score.
bobby		Two eight balls?
danny		Nice dealer you got there, Jimmy.
jimmy		Oh ... that.  Ah, he was just juiced. He wouldn't have did nothin'
danny		C.I. number 678-43K-107  Tanner and Garcetti
danny		 I've got a hot one.
tanner		You go, boy.
danny		If it's all the same to you, I'd rather not dish right here in the middle of Crankville.
tanner		Feeling the paranoia tonight, are we?
danny		Well, you know what they say, just because you're paranoid, doesn't mean everyone's not out to slice your balls off and shove 'em down your throat.
tanner		You got a name?
danny		Bobby, rhymes with hobby.
tanner		What?
danny		Never mind.  Dude had a backfull of jailhouse tatts.
tanner		No last name?
danny		It was all pretty informal.  Didn't have a lot of time to exchange pleasantries.
garcetti		This the guy?
danny		It speaks!
danny		That's him.  He's a lot prettier in person though.
garcetti		Cut to the fucking chase, Flynne.
danny		Dude is bugging.  Transparent spiders, plastic men - the whole nine yards.
garcetti		What's he holding?
tanner		God damn, Flynne, you are one observant tweaker.
danny		Somebody has to help you lazy bastards.
tanner		Danny, I'm touched.
danny		Don't be. I'm worried about the kid.
garcetti		Then why didn't you help the kid when you were there?
danny		Hey, you want me to do all your work for you, numbnuts?
garcetti		I'll tell you why you didn't help - because you're a chickenshit tweaking snitch.  You're a bottom feader, Flynne.
danny		Garcetti, you're teeth, they're fucking perfect.
danny		You're welcome.
danny		 Let me help you with those.
woman		I was rude. I'm sorry.  I'm kinda new around here.
danny		You did the right thing.  What is this stuff anyway?
woman		Fermented soybean curd.
danny		Yummy.
woman		Colette Aragon. Thank you, Danny.
danny		My name is Tom Van Allen  I play the trumpet.
liz		That's so ... 
liz		Yes, it hurts my heart.  What a beautiful composition.
liz		 A virtuoso rendition.  TOM VAN ALLEN is nothing short of dazzling in his interpretation of Miles Davis' haunting, moody piece.
liz		And he has a really hot ass with hardly any hair on it.
liz		I was talking about Miles.
liz		And you've got wiener breath.
liz		It's that disgusting hot dog you had for lunch.
liz		 Tom! Gross!
liz		Tom, let's spend the night here.
liz		No.  Right here on the beach.  Come on. Let's do it.
danny		 No ... We'll stay.
danny		You think I'm a Judas?
tanner		Hard to compare the people you're taking down with the Lord.
danny		Garcetti thinks I'm a pile of shit.
tanner		Garcetti thinks everything is shit. He doesn't even like dolphins.
danny		Thanks for not judging me.
tanner		It's not my place.
danny		Don't you wonder why I do it?
tanner		The money? The drugs? Keeping yourself out of jail? I know the drill.
danny		You don't find that repugnant?
tanner		Just the way the world works.  Look, as far as tweakers go, you aren't a bad guy.  You never hurt anyone but yourself as far as I know.
danny		Tell that to Bobby ... and his wife and kid.
tanner		Bobby laid his own tracks.  He could have gone quietly but he played the hard-ass con till the end. And as far as I'm concerned, he wife and kid are a hell of a lot better off without him.  Now take the money.
danny		It's a long story.  Maybe I'll tell you all about it some day.
tanner		I was getting to it.
danny		 Tell me what?
garcetti		I'll tell him.
danny		 Tell me what?
garcetti		 Danny, it's really pains me to have to tell you this, but do you remember DOMINGO, that wetback you helped us put away for trafficking a few months back?
danny		Yeah.  What about him?
garcetti		Turns out he's connected.
danny		To who?
garcetti		The Mexicali Boys
danny		And what does this have to do with me?
garcetti		He knows somebody ratted him.
danny		What?!
garcetti		And he's making a lot of noise about having his homies hang a Colombian necktie on whoever it was.
danny		Shut up, Garcetti!
danny		If he finds out it's me, I'm a dead man.
tanner		Danny, he isn't gonna find out it's you.  Domingo was a slinger, he must have sold to hundreds of different people.
danny		How the hell am I gonna do that?  You guys are still stringing me a long on that possession charge.
garcetti		 You mean that hasn't been cleared up yet?
danny		Fuck you, Garcetti. I been at this for almost a year. I've done everything you guys have asked of me.
garcetti		Anyone ever ask you to be such a disrespectful smart-ass all the time?
tanner		Look, we'll talk to the A.D.A.
danny		When?
tanner		Soon. I promise.  We'll get the charges dropped and you can disappear.  In the mean time, trust me, he has no idea that you ratted him out.
bubba		 You like that?
danny		Who wouldn't?
bubba		First rate, ain't it?
danny		It's downright classy is what it is.
bubba		Get in, hoss.  We'll talk it over.
danny		Jimmy, you don't look so hot.
jimmy		I'm hurting.
danny		You on a roll?
jimmy		Was.  I'm on the fucking ghost train right now, man.  You got anything for me?
danny		Sorry.
jimmy		Why does it have to feel so bad?
danny		You're brain is in reverse mode ... cutting off your supply of dopamine. Here.  Have a beer.
jimmy		Oh yeah.  Man, Danny, how do you keep your shit together so tight?
jimmy		I'm serious, dude.  You always seem to be on top of things, even when you're tweakin'.
danny		I guess there's just no substitute for good genes.
jimmy		Yeah, it's a pity.  Truly a pity.
danny		I kind of doubt it, Jimmy.
jimmy		So, why'd you want to see me?
danny		Business.  I need to leave town and I find myself in dire need of some cash.
jimmy		See that?  That's just what I'm talking about.
danny		What?
jimmy		You. You're smooth. You use words like dire and shit.  You got language skills, man.
danny		Don't get carried away.
jimmy		I find myself in dire need of some cash.
danny		You remember that guy you told me about ... said he could handle a big hook-up?
jimmy		Yeah, Pooh-Bear.  Dude is a big-time cook. I'm talking dire.
danny		I know a buyer.  Guy's looking for a quarter's worth.
jimmy		A quarter?  Danny that ain't even worth ...
danny		A quarter of a million, Jimmy.
jimmy		Fuuuuuck
danny		Can your man handle that?
jimmy		I think so.  I mean, we'd have to talk to him.
danny		Can you set that up?
jimmy		Sure.
danny		I'm getting a 10% finder's fee from my man if I can get the right price.
jimmy		10%.  That's ...
danny		25 grand.  You introduce me to your boy, I'll cut you five grand out of my take.  That's all you gotta do, just get me in the door.
danny		Jimmy, where do you find these people?
jimmy		The Del Ammo Mall mostly.
jimmy		You wanna score some go-fast?
danny		Not tonight.
jimmy		Hey, why do you need a gun and a vest anyway?
danny		Personal protection. It's a dangerous world we live in, Jimmy, a very dangerous world.
dude		 You mad dogging me, Bitch?
danny		Heavens no. I was just admiring your boots.
danny		Did you purchase them locally?
danny		You know, Jimmy, you might as well put a sign on the back of this thing asking the cops to pull you over.
jimmy		You mean, like to throw 'em off?
danny		Yeah, that's what I mean.  Where the hell does this guy live anyway?
jimmy		Palmdale
danny		Why do they call him Pooh-Bear?
jimmy		I think on account of his nose.
danny		You're going to have to explain that one.
jimmy		He doesn't have one.
danny		You're going to have to give me a little more than that, Jimmy.
jimmy		Well, you know how Winnie the Pooh always got his nose stuck in the honey jar? Well, Pooh-Bear snorted so much crank, they had to cut his nose off. He's got a plastic one though.
danny		You ever see Queen Elizabeth sleep?
jimmy		No  You think she's a tweaker?
zapruder		Ready.
oswald		Roger that.
grassy knoll		Ready
third shooter		It's a go.
danny		Um, I think the Warren Commission has been closed for a while.
danny		Yeah, I uh, have a buyer who's looking for about a quarter's worth.
danny		The good stuff.  Can you handle that?
danny		No, I'm good.
danny		Can we talk price?
danny		I don't know, 14,000 a kilo?
danny		Okay ... How about um .. 6,000 a ounce.
danny		You're serious?
danny		But I just met you.
danny		So that's 40 lbs. at 6 a pound then?
danny		Pooh-Bear, I don't mean to be rude, but I get the feeling you aren't taking me seriously.
danny		Why do you say that?
danny		Hey, I was just trying to ...
danny		Hey, I don't play that.
danny		Look, you don't have to ...
danny		Now you're insulting me.  Nice talking business with you.
danny		I'll leave it.  Eight is as high as I'll go.  See ya'.
jimmy		You want a hit?
danny		No. I'm good.
jimmy		Can I ask you something?
danny		Sure, Jimmy.
jimmy		What does J.F.K. stand for?
danny		John Fitzgerald Kennedy.
jimmy		Was he the president?
danny		Yes, Jimmy
jimmy		Danny?
danny		Yes, Jimmy.
jimmy		Thanks for not laughing at me.
old man		 Sugar Plum Fairy never once gave it away. Everybody had to pay and pay ...
kujo		Danny, listen up.  Here's the deal ... my wife's pimp knows a guy who works at Cedars Sinai medical lab.  They're getting a very special delivery a week from this Friday.
jimmy		What is it, drugs?
kujo		Better than drugs.
kujo		Bob Hope's stool specimen  We're gonna boost it.
danny		Why in God's name would we want to do that?
kujo		So we can sell it.
danny		To who?
kujo		I don't know.  A collector.  Fuck Danny, it's Bob Hope.
creeper		He is a national treasure.
kujo		Check it out.  This is the lab.
creeper		What is that?
kujo		It's the lab.
creeper		I mean what kind of drink?
kujo		Cuba Libre
jimmy		What is that? Rum and coke?
kujo		Don't worry about it.
jimmy		I just want to be straight on the details.  Can I taste it?
kujo		No, you can't taste it.  It's the fucking lab! Now shut up.
creeper		You should use something smaller. He's the same size as the office. It doesn't ring true.
kujo		Jesus Jimmy, you at the alpha team.
jimmy		I thought you were done.
old man		I said hey sugar, take a walk on the wild side ...
kujo		So what's it gonna be, Danny boy? You in or out?
danny		 I'm afraid I'm gonna have to pass on this one, boys.
danny		You okay? She nods.
colette		Quincey, my boyfriend... he kicked me out.
danny		Look...I'd like to help you out ... but I really don't want to get involved.
colette		I understand. Thanks anyway.
colette		Thanks.
danny		Don't be.
colette		Jesus, I look like a raccoon.
danny		I was thinking Alice Cooper.
colette		Oh God.
danny		Come on, cheer up. It could be worse.
colette		How?
danny		I don't know .... you could be staking your financial future on stealing Bob Hope's stool specimen.
colette		What about the guy on the very bottom?
danny		Leave me out of this.
colette		That bad, huh?
danny		Nevertheless, I still try to see the glass as half-full.
colette		Could be worse.  Oh sorry, forgot who I was talking to.
danny		Ouch.
colette		Don't worry, he's probably passed out with his head in the toilet by now.
danny		This man sounds like a real catch.
colette		Oh, he's a keeper all right.
danny		Colette ...
danny		Nothing.
colette		Go ahead.
danny		Look, it's really none of my business but why don't you just dump this guy?
colette		It's not that easy.
danny		Don't tell me, down deep he's really not a bad person and you don't want to see him get hurt.
colette		Who the fuck are you, Dr. Joyce Brothers?  I hate the son-of-a-bitch.
danny		Then leave.
colette		I can't.
danny		Why not?
colette		You don't understand.
danny		There's nothing to understand. The guy is a pig.
colette		I can't leave.
danny		You get off on abuse or something?
colette		Fuck you.
danny		Then why don't you leave?  Just give me one good reason.
colette		Because he'll kill me.
danny		Why don't you call the cops?
colette		Why? They don't hold him for more than a day or two.
danny		That's long enough to get out of town.
colette		I can't. I've got a kid.  She lives with my parents.  Quincey knows where they live.
danny		Then make sure he gets put away for longer.
colette		How?
danny		I don't know.  Let me think about it.
bubba		 I wanna do a small buy first.  Ten thousand.  We'll see how it goes.
danny		Why? The guys is ready to deal now.
bubba		Because I don't know him and I don't really know you, partner.
danny		Now that's down-right insulting.
bubba		I'll have to live with that.  My money my risk, my rules.
garcetti		You thinking what I'm thinking?
tanner		Yeah.  This could be the one we're looking for.
tanner		Hold it right there, Flynne.
danny		Jesus, you almost gave me a heart attack!
danny		What the hell are you doing here?
tanner		Question is, what are you doing here?
danny		I was trying to score some dope.
tanner		Cut the shit, Flynne.
danny		Someone want to tell me what the hell is going on here?
tanner		Okay, asshole, you wanna play, we'll play.
danny		 What did I do?!
tanner		 You think this is funny motherfucker?
danny		 I can't help it, Tanner, you hit like a fucking girl.
danny		Garcetti, do something.
garcetti		We know what's going on.
danny		 I still don't know what you're talking about.
garcetti		Okay, let me help you.  You're setting up a deal with a Chinese redneck. Quarter of a million.
danny		Jimmy?
garcetti		Who the hell is Jimmy?
danny		He's the only one I told.
garcetti		And he probably only told two people and they probably only told four people and on and one. You know better than to tell a secret to a tweaker, Flynne.  Might just as well broadcast it on the evening news.
danny		I met the guy at a party.  He said he wanted to do a biggie. He's new in town so I offered my services.
tanner		This chink have a name?
danny		Bubba.
tanner		You better not be blowing smoke up My ass, Flynne.
danny		After that ass-whipping you gave me?
garcetti		 What's on the other end of this thing?
danny		Now that I can help you with. Nasty boy ... goes by the name of Pooh-Bear. He's a chef. Check with Palmdale P.D. I'm sure they're keeping box scores on the guy.
garcetti		Sounds like you hooked up with some fine citizens, Flynne.
danny		Oh they're all that and the proverbial bag of chips.
tanner		What're your taking down?
danny		Standard vig.  Minus five for a certain blabber-mouth moron by the name of Jimmy the Finn, who's living proof that natural selection is a flawed theory.
tanner		Did you really think you were slick enough to pull this off?
danny		Look man, I just wanted to make some dough and disappear.  I didn't want to wait around for Domingo to figure out who doubled back on him.
garcetti		Wrong.
danny		You mean you want me to roll on these guys?
tanner		You've got no choice.
danny		Whata you mean I've got no choice?
tanner		Well, if you'd rather do a stretch in la casa grande ...
danny		For that old possession charge? Gimme a break.
tanner		No. You just handed us a new one.  We can go Federal on your ass right now: ongoing criminal conspiracy. Intent to buy and distribute $250,000 worth of crank.  What's the mandatory on that, Al?
garcetti		Dime, minimum.
garcetti		What's that smell?
danny		That would be me.
garcetti		What'd you do, piss your pants?
danny		Hell, yes!  What the hell do you expect zapping Mr. Johnson with that crackler?
garcetti		Who'd have thought it?  Danny "Chickenshit" Flynne trying to go large right under our noses.
danny		Lay off, Garcetti.  I'm not in the mood.
garcetti		No.  You've got me all wrong.  I mean, in you own pussified way, you actually got some nuts in your little sack.
tanner		Bullshit. He's a liar.
danny		News-flash, Tanner. I'm a fucking rat.
tanner		You think you're so god damned smart, don't you?
liz		Why didn't you just ask for directions back there?
liz		You mean like the Donner Party?
liz		Tom, quit fucking around.
liz		You think that's a good idea?
liz		Look at that place. It's creepy.
liz		I wanted you to ask back there.  You know, before you got us lost.
liz		Just admit you're wrong.
liz		Quit feeling sorry for yourself, Tom. It gets old.
liz		Here it comes, poor Tom.
liz		That is so unfair.
liz		Why are you doing this?
liz		... Tom ... screw it.  Tell me when you're ready to apologize.
danny		Oh. Hi.
colette		What happened to your eye?
danny		Turns out I'm allergic to steel-toed boots. Go figure.  Where's Quincey?
colette		Don't worry. He's out of town.
danny		How far out of town?
colette		Trust me. We're safe.
danny		Miles Davis. "All Blues."
colette		Never heard of him.
danny		Just a fucked-up guy who played beautiful music.
colette		Like you?
danny		Nah. I'm strictly minor league... except for the fucked-up part.
danny		Dude played his soul right out the end of the horn. No false notes. Always honest.
colette		And you admire that?
danny		It's the only way to play.
colette		Is that how you play?
danny		I try.
colette		No false notes?
colette		No deep dark secrets?
danny		: What are you up to?
colette		Nothing.
danny		What do you want from me, Colette?
colette		I don't want anything. Why are you so suspicious?
danny		It gets me through the day.
colette		You really need to lighten up.
danny		Look, I can't help you with Quincey if that's what you're after.
colette		This has nothing to do with him.
danny		So you're just attracted to me, is that it?
colette		Yes. Why do you find that so hard to believe?
danny		How much time do you have?
colette		What is wrong with you?
danny		How much time do you have?
colette		You've got a comeback for everything, don't you, Danny? You use 'em like some sort of shield.
danny		Who the fuck are you? Dr. Joyce Brothers?
colette		There you go again. You're nothing but false notes.
danny		You don't like the tune, find another station.
colette		What are you hiding, Danny?
danny		Therapy session is over.
colette		You think you're the only one down here with a sad story?
danny		No. But I'm the only one with my sad story.  And that's how it's gonna stay.
danny		Excuse me?
garcetti		Several possession charges, but nothing major.
danny		Why doesn't Palmdale P.D. just raid the guy?
garcetti		They have. But they never found a lab.
tanner		That's because he doesn't have one.
danny		Whata you mean?  He told me -
tanner		Guy scores dope and dollar from ripping off other drug dealers.  As least that's what the word is.
danny		What's to stop him from just ripping me off then?
tanner		That's probably what he would have done if we hadn't found out about your get-rich-quick scheme.
garcetti		You're lucky, Flynne.
danny		Funny, I don't feel lucky.
garcetti		We're coordinating with Palmdale P.D.. We'll have your sorry ass covered.
danny		What if he caps me before you can make a move?
tanner		Golly, I hadn't thought of that.
garcetti		Don't we always take good care of you?
danny		Speaking of which ... you run that license plate for me?
garcetti		You mean the menacing red car?
danny		What? Is it bad?
tanner		I'm afraid so, Danny.
danny		Who is it?
garcetti		Brace yourself.
danny		Come on! Who is it?  Domingo's boys?
garcetti		Worse. Much worse.  A teacher.
tanner		Car is registered to a Mrs. Nancy Plummer.
garcetti		She's 57 and she's been teaching third grade for the last 33 years.
tanner		Now that's scary!
garcetti		You're paranoid, Flynne.  I think that crank is finally starting to get the best of you.
danny		Pooh-Bear, my man.  What's up?
little bill		He's blue.
big bill		Comin' down from a 10 day ride.
danny		You want to do this some other time?
danny		I'm sorry?
danny		 Come on, guys ...
big bill		Argh, matie. I'm a pirate.
danny		 It's me, Danny. I thought we had a deal.
danny		What?!
danny		Please .. I don't know what you're ...
danny		Jesus Christ.  Um ... I'm not .. Captain Steubing. I'm not working for the cops.
big bill		Drop your package in the cage.
danny		My what?
big bill		Put your pee-pee through the hole.
big bill		Yo-ho-ho and a bottle of rum.
danny		Oh fuck ... oh Jesus ...
danny		Okay! Okay!
danny		I didn't fucking do anything! I swear to God!
danny		 Captain Steubing, listen to me. You're after the wrong guy. This is the fuck you should be talking to.
little bill		That's a pack of discharge.
danny		It's true. Jimmy saw him flashing a pimp role at a bar the other night ... said he was dissin' your ass in front of one of your customers.
little bill		Damn straight.
danny		Can I pull my dick out now?
little bill		 Go ahead. I got nothing to hide.
danny		Can I pull my dick out?
big bill		He's clean.
little bill		What?
danny		CAN I PULL MY FUCKING DICK OUT?!
danny		I ought to just call this whole thing off right now.
danny		What the hell was that? Who told you I was five-0?
danny		Did it ever occur to you that someone might cop to something they didn't do rather than have their balls chewed off by a rabid weasel?
tanner		We're in business.
garcetti		Good work, Flynne.  You're a first-rate rat.
danny		That's real sweet, Garcetti.  Thanks.
tanner		We got the 411 on your good old boy.
danny		Murder.  Beautiful.
tanner		Pumped fifty-seven bullets into a police informant.
danny		You know, I'm starting to think I'd rather take my chances with Domingo than go through any more of this shit.
garcetti		Didn't you hear?  Domingo's dead.
tanner		Took a pig-slicker to the heart.
danny		Jesus.
tanner		I thought you'd be happy.
danny		Yeah.
nancy		Who is it?
danny		All right, Nancy, how'd you track me down?
nancy		Billy Sutcliffe said he saw you at a bar down in Gardena a few weeks ago. Said you looked so bad, he barely recognized you.
verne		Highway Patrol.
nancy		He said you were ... the people you Were with ... well ...
verne		Said you were a drug addict.
danny		Maybe I should just go.
nancy		No. We want to help you, Tom.
danny		Closure? How do you find closure when her killers are still running around out there?
nancy		I found forgiveness in my heart for the people who killed my daughter. I gave my grief to Jesus Christ.
danny		Is that what you want me to do?  Put it all on Jesus?  Let him sort it out in the afterlife?
nancy		You've got to deal with this sooner or later, Tom. You can't keep hiding.
danny		Maybe I am dealing with it.
nancy		I know it's not my place to pass judgement on you but ...
danny		Then why don't I see any pictures Of me up there?
verne		That was my idea.
danny		You never did like me much, did you Verne?  And you can't stand it that I walked out of there alive and Liz didn't. You think I'm a coward, don't you?
nancy		Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, a persecute you.
danny		I'm genuinely happy that you found some peace, Nancy. But you can't forgive for Liz.  No one can.  And you can't forgive for me.
nancy		Your hatred makes them stronger and you weaker.
danny		I don't buy that. There's a place for hatred.  Did you know that Liz and I got into an argument the night she was killed? I acted like an ass and I never had a chance to apologize to her.  Do you know what that feels like?
nancy		It's not too late to show her you're sorry.
danny		How?
verne		By not disgracing her memory!
danny		What does that mean?
verne		You might as well be spitting on her grave every time you put drugs up your nose.  Or did you just conveniently forget that it was drug dealers who killed my daughter?
danny		You don't understand.
verne		Understand what?
danny		Nothing. It's ... it's complicated. I just want you to know ... I'm not what you think I am.
danny		Who is it?
danny		I'm kind of busy.
colette		We been through that.
danny		What about a battered woman's shelter? You can move you kid in with you.
colette		I need my paycheck.
danny		You can still work.
colette		He knows where I work.
danny		Find a new job.
colette		It's not that easy. I just got a raise. I need the money.
danny		You always been this stubborn?
colette		From day one.  I was a breach birth. They tried for hours to turn my little butt around. But I wouldn't let 'em.
danny		Ass first into the world.
colette		I been that way ever since.
colette		Can we try that again?
danny		I can't.
colette		Why not?
danny		I just can't. Okay?
colette		What's wrong, Danny?
danny		Look, maybe you oughta' leave.
colette		No. I want to know what the hell is going on.
danny		I can't tell you.
colette		There's someone else, isn't there?
bo		What you want to do is go back the way you came and make a left at the bottom. It'll take you right to the highway.
bo		Are you Australian?
bo		Good. I fucking hate Australians.
bo		Yeah? First door on the right. It ain't that dirty.  Just kinda' filthy is all.
bo		No, I don't mind.  That's how come I told you about it.
liz		Try to make it fast.
bo		You know. This and that.
bo		Skeeters. They're bad up here.
intruder one		Let's go!
danny		She died knowing that I was a coward... that I didn't lift a finger to help her.
collette		There was nothing you could have done.
danny		No, you're wrong, I tried to tell myself the same thing but I could have gotten up. I could have done something.
colette		They would have killed you too.
danny		 Nothing could be worse then this slow death I'm living now.
danny		 Colette...I want to help you, with Quincey.
colette		No Danny, Don't-
colette		Really, I don't want to.
danny		I want to do this for you.  I want to do something good for a change.
colette		What is it?
danny		Never mind. Just do what I say. He holds out the baggie. Colette backs away.
colette		I don't want to.
danny		I'm offering you the chance to take care of your problems. Take it.  He helds the baggie out again. Colette reluctantly takes it from him.
danny		Will you do that?  Then I want you to get out of the room.
colette		Why?
danny		Don't worry about it. Just go across the street and watch. You'll know when it's safe to go back.
danny		Just do it. All your problems with Quincey will be taken care of.
jimmy		What's this?
danny		Tem thousand dollars. Everything I could spare.  It's for you.
jimmy		But why? You only owe me five. And that's not till after we close the deal tonight.
danny		You aren't coming with me.
jimmy		Okay
danny		Wait till I tell you what it is.
jimmy		It don't matter. I'll do it. And you sure as hell don't have to pay me.
danny		Why?
jimmy		You're my best friend, man. I'd do anything for you.
danny		Jimmy, look, there's something I have to tell you.
jimmy		Hey, check it out...
danny		What the hell is that?
jimmy		 It's you! I didn't have a picture or nothin' so I had to describe you to the guy. Not bad though, huh?
jimmy		What?
danny		I'm not a tweaker.  I don't use drugs. I never had.
jimmy		But...I've seen you.
danny		When? When did you ever see me use?
jimmy		This isn't like that Queen Elizabeth question, is it?
danny		You ever notice how I always showed up, in the middle of a binge? Left before it was over? How I sneak away for cap-naps? How when the crank came around to me, I always said I'd just done one?
jimmy		No one ever noticed?
danny		Are you kidding me? A bunch of amped -out tweakers? It was easy.
jimmy		But... why? Why would you pretend?
danny		I can't tell you.
jimmy		You don't trust me?
danny		I don't trust anybody.
jimmy		And you want me to do you some big favor?
jimmy		Wait  If you don't trust me, why did you tell me that stuff about not using drugs?
danny		Because I don't want to see you end up like Kujo and those other losers.  I thought that maybe if you knew that I didn't use, you might see it in yourself to go clear.
danny		You mad at me, Jimmy?
jimmy		I don't know... a little. I wish you would have let me in on it from the beginning.
danny		I'm sorry. I couldn't.
danny		You know you can get that tattoo removed, don't you.
jimmy		Nah... I want to keep it.  Maybe I can use it for like, inspiration ...you know...like when I detox?
danny		Good for you Jimmy.
danny		I really want you to take this.
jimmy		Wouldn't be a favor if you were paying me. I'll just take my five when the deal is done.
danny		You're a good man. Jimmy the Finn.
bubba		Yeah.
danny		Everything go?
bubba		Yeah.
danny		Just make sure you come alone. This guy won't like any surprises
bubba		I ain't a idiot, asshole.
danny		I'll see you tonight.
tanner		Man of few words.
garcetti		Nervous?
danny		With you clowns watching my back? What do you think?
garcetti		Just make sure you hit the floor when we come in. It could get ugly in there.
tanner		Yeah, I'd hate to shoot you by accident.
hispanic guy		He's coming in.
danny		You tell me.
bubba		You ready to go meet the team?
trahn		For those of you who don't know this is Tom Van Allen... a.k.a.  Danny Flynne.
agent one		He's a civilian?  How the hell did you pull this off?
danny		I played the long shot. Just got lucky.
bookman		How about the car? The model?
danny		All I saw was the headlights. The high beams were on.
bookman		Not even a guess?
danny		(pissed off0 How many times do we have to go through this?
danny		Yeah, but he was in silhouette.
bookman		How about in the house?
danny		They were wearing ski masks. I told you all of this.
bookman		Did you see his hair color?
danny		No, Why?
bookman		Forensics found this on your wife.
bookman		What is it?
danny		Nothing, I'm trying to remember...
agent one		Why didn't you tell him?
danny		Because I wanted to find them myself  I wanted to kill them.
danny		I knew that if these were the guys I was looking for, I'd have to set up a deal so sweet, they wouldn't be able to walk away from it.
trahn		That's when he called me. He told me his story and he pitched me a plan.
danny		These guys are smart. I knew they wouldn't hit a deal unless they knew all the players. I needed a big buyer.
tanner		 This could be the one we're looking for.
agent two		How sure are you that you're not chasing two good cops? I mean all you've really got  is one red hair. That's still your only evidence.
trahn		Not anymore. We tapped these guys' phones and computers at Gardena P.D. Tanner and Garcetti didn't report on this deal. Not a peep. They haven't coordinated with Palmdale P.D. They're keeping it off the books. It looks like we've got the right guys.  We'll find out for sure tonight.
trahn		How you holding up?
danny		I'm fine. Little nervous...little disappointed that I didn't finish this myself.
trahn		Hey, you did the right thing. You wouldn't have stood a chance against these boys by yourself. They have eaten your ass alive.
danny		Oh shit
trahn		What?
danny		Can you do me a favor? This girl I know, her boyfriend's a real piece of shit-dude's really jamming her up. I promised her I'd try to help.
trahn		I'll see what I can do.
danny		Hey guys...
agent one		 All right people, heads up.  Blue team?
maid one		I've got a visual.
agent one		 Red team?
workman one		He's heading to his room.
agent one		 Black team?
agent one		Okay.  It's all yours.
garcetti		Half an hour to kickoff.
trahn		You alone?
jimmy		Danny told me to tell you that he was sorry.  He said he had to take care of this himself.
tanner		Here he comes.
danny		Easy, boy.
tanner		Where's Bubba?
garcetti		Maybe he isn't showing.
tanner		Looks like Flynne's handling the cash. Let's get into position.
danny		What the hell is this?
danny		This is bullshit.  You didn't say anything about anybody else being here.
danny		Come on, man, let's deal.
danny		Yeah, dickhead.
danny		Anybody there?
danny		I'm here, Liz. I'm here.
garcetti		Get the bag.
tanner		Danny?
danny		My name is Tom.
tanner		Whatever you say, man.  Look ... can we talk about this?
danny		Yeah. Okay. Listen carefully ...  You're in the bathroom.  You've been shot in the shoulder ...
tanner		Please ... don't do this ...
danny		Answer the fucking question!
tanner		Does that answer your question?  You're a fucking coward, Flynne.  You lived like one and now you're gonna die like one.
danny		 Glock semi-automatic 9 mm ...
kid		Tenifer matte finish, Polymer grip, fixed sights, 4 and 1/2 inch barrel, 22 ounces, double action and a ...
kid		... and a TEN ROUND magazine ...
danny		It doesn't matter.
tanner		Too late to be a hero.
danny		 You're dead.
fade out.		FADE IN:
danny		My name is Tom Van Allen. I'm a trumpet player.
quincey		You're a motherfucking rat.
colette		You said you wouldn't kill him!
colette		You lied to me!
quincey		Oops.  My bad.
danny		Colette, what happened?  Didn't the cops ...
quincey		The cops came.  But they didn't find nothing.  Turns out their C.I. game 'em some bad information.
danny		You set me up?
quincey		Bitch played you like a squeezebox, Romeo.
danny		You're good, princess. I'll give you that.
colette		Danny, it's not what you think.
colette		I owed them money ... a lot of money ... they didn't give me a choice.  You know how it works.  When I got to know you, I tried to back out ... that's when they did this ...  But I told them I wouldn't do it .. I didn't want to see you get hurt.
danny		She selling me a bill, home boy?
quincey		Nah, she ain't lying.  She took a pretty good beating from you, ace. I seen grown men crack after a lot less.  But not this bitch.  It was very touching.
danny		Then why are we here?
colette		They threatened to kill my daughter.  I'm sorry, Danny.
danny		It's okay. It's okay.  God damn, you're beautiful.
quincey		Jesus.
colette		No!
quincey		You wanna die here with him or come with me?
danny		Colette, go.
colette		I don't want to leave you.
danny		Your daughter needs you.  Go.
tatto		 Hang in there buddy.
fade out.		FADE IN:
****Dialogues from script :Sandlot_Kids.txt****

narrator		Everyone's got that one summer when they were a kid... a summer so perfect, that it stays with them forever. It stays caught in time, like Camelot. pause That summer is like a book with a million blank pages that you get to fill with the greatest story you could ever dream up.  This is a story about a legend. And for us, that summer was the one when the legend got made.
narrator		Fourteen years later, after The Babe was gone, there was another guy who had something to do with the legend getting made too. A guy who set a record that summer that was so awesome, some people still don't believe it.
umpire		Safe!
ham		PICKLE!
squints		Thirty-one! Maury Wills just stole number thirty-one!
other team		 Crap! Can't beat that guy! Ya dufuses, why'd ya get him in a pickle for?! Ya know he's the damn pickle king! Rubba legs for sure! Truly rubba legs.
squints		Game over. Sixteen zip. Murderers' Row remains undefeated.
opponent		Hey! We never got our ups!
ham		Great, I'm dyin' a thirst and you pee me out!
benny		Ham, it ain't really.
ham		Then switch with me.
benny		Do I look stupid?
narrator		I moved to the neighborhood about a month before school let out. I was from another state, and didn't have a single friend in a thousand miles.
narrator		It was a lousy way to end up the 5th grade, 'cause I had zip time to make friends before summer. And that's about where it all started...
ham		Fifth grade's history, man. A hundred days, man. A Hundred days of baseball. All Day, everyday, as much as we can. That's the best.
timmy		We got all summer.
repeat		We got all summer.
benny		Let's play.
narrator		Everyone but the Timmons twins lived on my new block.
narrator		...later, it would become second only to Cape Canaveral as a command post for history.  When I moved in that summer, I'd never played baseball, but it wasn't too tough figuring out who these guys' heroes were. So, after a week of watching... I figured baseball seemed like the best way to get in with them.
scotty		Sorry, Mom.
mom		I thought we agreed we'd take this apart... and not spend so much time in here.
scotty		 I know - but it's just nighttime.
mom		Scotty, have you made any friends yet?
scotty		No.
mom		Why not, honey?
scotty		'Cause I'm still "new."
mom		Honey, I don't want you sitting in here all summer fiddling with this stuff, like you did last summer... and the one before that.  Scotty, look at me. I know you're smart, and I'm proud of you. But you have to get outside, you have to... play.
scotty		None mothers I guess.
mom		I want you to make friends this summer, Scotty. Lots of them.
scotty		I know, but I don't - I'm no good at anything. Face it, Mom, I'm just an EGGHEAD -
mom		- and you'll always be just an egghead with an attitude like that. So promise me, alright?
scotty		'Kay.
mom		Maybe tomorrow you'll make some friends.
scotty		Yeah, maybe tomorrow.  Mom? Do you think Bill - I mean Dad - will teach me to play catch?
mom		Are you kidding, he'd love it, you know what an athlete he wasIn high school.  You know what a pitcher he was in high college.
narrator		My real dad died when I was just a little kid. My mom married Bill a year before we moved to the neighborhood.  At the time, he and I were still getting used to each other.
scotty		Um, Dad - sorry, I mean Bill, remember you promised you'd teach me to play catch?
bill		Um hum...
scotty		Well, could you teach me?
bill		Sure.
scotty		Okay. Great. Thanks.
bill		Um hum.
ham		Hey-hey, come on! Wait up - wait up!
narrator		They never kept score. They never chose sides. They never even really stopped playing the game... it just went on forever. Everyday they picked up right where they left off the day before. It was an endless "dream game."  I didn't know any of that then... I just knew they were having the time of their lives and I wanted to be a part of it.
timmy		Nice catch!
repeat		Nice catch!
ham		Hey! Throw the ball back!
bertram		We gotta a game here, man!
scotty		'Kay, I'll get it!  Don't be a goofus - don't be a goofus - don't be a goofus.
squints		WE'RE WAITING...
scotty		 My life is over.
denunez		Come on, Benny-man, didn't you see that throw?
ham		 That kid's got the gaw'damn panty- waistiest arm I ever saw in my whole life.
squints		I seen a guy once that threw like that. I mean not that bad, but at least so bad that he hadda move in the fourth grade 'cause they nicknamed him "Bloomers."
benny		I bet not one of you knows how The Babe got his nickname.
ham		Easy, 'cause of the way he looked like a little kid face.
bertram		Bull, it's just 'cause he liked kids and stuff.
squints		Wrong. The Babe was called The Babe, because he was like the child of Yankee Stadium.
benny		I knew it. You're all full of crap. George Herman Ruth got his nickname because his mom died when he was just a little kid, and he hadda go live in an orphanage.
narrator		Everyone knew Benny was different. Nobody ever voted or anything, but he was the leader.
narrator		Even though he seemed like a regular guy, he wasn't. Benny was special, and he was loyal.  When they'd all tried out for youth league, they'd all made it. But when they found out they'd have to play on different teams, Benny told 'em that if they couldn't play together, they shouldn't play at all. So, they stayed together. 18
narrator		So, the only person that ever felt sorry for me 'cause I was such a weenie was Benjamin Franklin Rodriguez.  Connected as friends... born to meet for just that one moment.
scotty		Sorry...
mom		 Well?...
scotty		He's too busy, Mom.
mom		 Go back in there and ask. He'll take the time. Go on. 19
scotty		Um, Da -
bill		Um, yeah, but later, okay? I gotta get this done.
scotty		Okay, thanks.
mom		Bill, can't you take a break and teach him now?
scotty		Mom, it's okay - 
bill		Honey, I said I would and I will. I'm just under the gun here, ya know?
scotty		Mom, really -
mom		- How long could it take? You can't spare a half hour to show him?
bill		 Fine. Alright. I'll get my glove. Come on.
mom		 There. See. Told you so.
bill		Keep your eye on the ball. Put the glove up where it goes. Okay?
scotty		Yeah, okay, I think so.
bill		That's alright, just throw it back.
scotty		Here.
bill		Keep your eye on the ball. Put the glove up where the ball goes.
scotty		Darn. My glove got -
bill		- not bad. Right side at least. Now, just throw it back this time.
scotty		But my glove -
bill		 Oh, my God.
bill		Alright, Scott, listen, this one's gonna come right at you, easy, okay?
scotty		'Kay.
bill		Just keep your eye on the ball and put your glove up. You'll catch it.
scotty		Okay.
bill		Oh my -
benny		- God, whadda jerk!
mom		Bill! What happened?!
bill		Well, he -
scotty		 - just took my eye off the ball, Mom.
bill		There. Keep that on for an hour. It'll still be black, but it won't swell.  Sorry. We'll try again soon.
benny		Gonna go play some ball. Need a extra guy. Wanna go?
scotty		Naw. Thanks.
benny		Why not? Doncha like baseball?
scotty		Oh. Yeah. But, ah...
benny		But what?
scotty		But my glove's busted. So, ya know, I can't go. Thanks, though.
benny		That's okay.
scotty		Mom! I'm gonna go play some ball!
benny		Yeah. Cool shiner. We gotta stop by the 5 & 10 first. Need a new ball. And chaw and stuff, ya know?
scotty		Yeah.
benny		You dip chaw?
scotty		 Sure. A'course.
ham		Hey! Check me out! I'm the Great Bambino!
scotty		 Who's that?
ham		What?...  What did he say?
bertram		Were you born in a barn, man?
squints		You never heard of The Sultan of Swat?!
denunez		The Titan of Terror!
timmy		The Colossus of Clout!
repeat		The Colossus of Clout!
benny		 The King of Krash!
narrator		I had no idea who they were talking about. But there was no way I could let them know that... so, I lied.
scotty		Oh! The Great Bambino! Of course. I thought you said The Great Bambi.
ham		 That wimpy deer?
scotty		Ah, yeah - I guess. Sorry.
benny		 He's Scott Smalls.
scotty		Hi.
benny		He's gonna play with us. He makes nine. Now we got a team.
bertram		Why'd you bring him for, Benny?
benny		'Cause there's eight of us, and he makes nine.
bertram		Yeah, so would my sister, but I didn't bring her!
benny		With nine Guys we got a whole team.
ham		No, with Elswenger we had a whole team, and Elswenger could throw!
denunez		He ain't game, Benny. He can't throw for nothin'.
timmy		Benny, you already play all the empty positions since Elswenger moved to Arizona.
benny		And now I get to rotate 8 positions
squints		No you don't. It's stupid, Benny. The kid's an L-7 weenie.
benny		Oh yeah, Squints, and you're Willie freakin' Mays. You catch like a dork - anybody ever bust your chops about that?
squints		 No, but I'm - ya know, I'm -
benny		- and you run like a duck, Yeah- Yeah.
benny		- part-a the game.
squints		 Right.
benny		How come he don't get to be?
scotty		 Right. Okay. Ah... where exactly is that?
benny		 Uh, over there.
scotty		Here. Sorry, sorry.
benny		Hey, you can throw it ya know.
scotty		No, I can't... I don't know how.  Um, thanks for taking me here... but I think better go.
benny		You think too much. I bet you get straight A's and shit, huh?
scotty		No, I got a B once. Actually it was an A minus.  But it shoulda been a B.
benny		This is baseball, you're not supposed to think, you're just supposed to play.  You ever have a paper route?
scotty		Uh, I helped a guy one time.
benny		Throw it like you chuck a paper. When your arm gets here... just let go of it.  Just let go.
scotty		Wait - how do I catch it?
benny		Don't worry. Just stand there and stick your glove in the air. I'll take care of it.
scotty		Please, catch it. Please, catch it. Please, ca -
bertram		Okay! Hey, let's play ball!
scotty		Thanks.
benny		Keep it.
narrator		Everyday, first thing, we'd all pick a card from what we called "The Dugout."
benny		Bingo! Maury Wills!
scotty		Mickey Mou - ah, Mantle.
denunez		Stan Musial.
timmy		Lou Brock.
repeat		Lou Brock - I mean, Luis Aparicio.
bertram		Frank Robinson.
squints		Oh... Bob Uecker.
ham		Hank Aaron. I'm up.
scotty		Wait a sec, I'll get it!
gang		NOOOOOOOOOO! STOPPPPPP!
squints		Holy crap, you coulda been killed!
scotty		Well, you were all leavin', so I thought I'd just -
squints		- if you were thinkin' you wouldn't a thought that!
benny		You can't go back there, Smalls.
scotty		Then how do we get the ball?
timmy		We don't.
repeat		We don't.
bertram		It's gone.
ham		Forever even.
denunez		Forget it, it's a memory.
benny		Game's over. We'll get a new one tomorrow. Just forget it. We'll never see it again.
scotty		Why not?
gang		 The Beast.
benny		Go over there, real slow, and be quiet. Don't touch the fence, just peek through that hole in the green stuff... go on.
scotty		Something got the ball!  What was that thing?!
gang		Campout.
ham		Wanna s'more?
scotty		Some more of what?
ham		No. You wanna s'more?
scotty		I haven't had anything yet, so how can I have any more of nothing?
ham		You kill me Smalls. Look, these are s'mores stuff. Pay attention:  First you take the graham - you put the chocolate on the graham, Hershey's of course - you hold the chocolate on the graham while you roast the mallow-
squints		Alright, listen up.  First time DeNunez heard this story he FAINTED -
denunez		- Bull, Squints!
benny		You did, man.
squints		When Yeah-Yeah heard it he peed his pants.
ham		You did, man.
squints		And when The Ham heard it he barfed up two bags of marshmallows.
ham		Liar! It was only one.
squints		So stay away from the door... you might fall out. And don't sit on your sleeping bag... you could shit your pants.  Now, quiet...
squints		And so... The Beast sits there under that lean-to, dreaming about the time when he can break the chain and get out... dreaming of the time when he can chase and kill again.
bertram		See, man. That's why you can't go over there. Nobody ever has. Nobody ever will.
ham		One kid did, but nobody ever seen him again.
denunez		That ain't true -
ham		- yeah it is! He got eaten!
denunez		"Boogers" Fleming?
timmy		No. It was that guy with the warts on his face.
repeat		Davy "The Toad."
timmy		That's what I said.
squints		Davy "The Toad" Stodenrous.
bertram		Yeah, The Toad...
scotty		 Nuh-uh... none of that's true. You guys are just -
squints		- oh, yeah?... Come here. Stick your head out the window and look down.
scotty		 He's down there!
squints		You bet he is.
ham		Whatever goes over that fence... stays there.
squints		It becomes the property of The Beast... Forever.
narrator		I learned that more than a 150 baseballs had gone over that fence... and not one of them was ever seen again. Even when some brave kid worked up enough courage to peek over the fence. 
benny		What took you so long?! We been here forever already!
squints		Shut up, I wasn't!
squints		Hold me back! Hold me back!
ham		I am holdin' you back Squints.
squints		Oh, yeah. Well, lemme go then. 
denunez		So, where'd you get the money this time Yeah-Yeah?
ham		Sonavabitch!
benny		- naw, don't, man. He's just mad he didn't think of it.
ham		Yeah, you know how many lawns I hadda mow when it was my turn?! Geez. Let's play.
ham		I can't take it no more, Benny. I'm bakin' like a toasted cheeser!
timmy		It's hotter than the fires of hell.
repeat		It's hotter than a fish in a fryin' pan.
benny		Come on, don't be wimpy.
squints		Face it, Benny. It's not a fit day out for man nor beast. We gotta call it for the day.
benny		Vote then. Everyone that wants to be a can't-hack-it panty waist, and wear their momma's bra, raise your hand.
gang		Scam Pool Honeys!
ham		Hamonball!
narrator		Benny would've played ball all day and all night... rain shine, tidal wave, whatever, it didn't matter. Baseball was the only thing he cared about and everything else was just a waste of time.  But, of all the things we ever did besides baseball, goin' to the pool was what he tolerated best. Even though none of us had ever seen a Playboy magazine - which we constantly lied about - we figured the pool was the next best thing to being there.
benny		Oh, man...
timmy		She don't know what she's doing.
repeat		She don't know what she's doing.
benny		Yeah she does. She knows exactly what she's doing.
squints		I've swum here every summer of my adult life... and every summer there she is.  I - can't - take - this - no - more!
scotty		What's wrong with him?
bertram		Squints!
ham		Oh my God! He's drowning!
lifeguard		You little pervert!
ham		Did you plan that?!
squints		A'course I did. Been plannin' it for years.
narrator		Michael "Squints" Palledorous walked a little taller that day. And we had to tip our hats to him. He was lucky she hadn't beat the crap out of him. We wouldn't have blamed her. What he'd done was sneaky, rotten and low.  We got banned from the pool forever that day... but every time we walked by after that, the Lifeguard looked down from her watchtower, right over at Squints... and smiled.
ham		Eee! Eee! Eee! Oh! Oh! Oh!
ham		Shut up, blockhead.
benny		Play us and you'll find out why, Phillips.
squints		Benny, man, are we gonna let 'em get away with that?!
benny		Yeah. For now. Let's go.
scotty		You think he really died in the end?
benny		Who?
scotty		King Kong...
squints		Not possible. He's so big that fallin' off the Empire State's just like us fallin' off a roof... he's alive.
scotty		So whadda you think happened to him?
timmy		Most likely.
scotty		Hey, guys? Has anyone ever really seen The Beast?
squints		Look, Smalls. You ever seen King Kong for real? In person, I mean?
scotty		No. But -
squints		- well, he's real right?
scotty		Yeah, a'course.
squints		And he's still out there somewhere right?
scotty		Yeah.
squints		See, there's just somethings that are. Ya know, stuff that it's better not to talk about... 'cause thinkin' about it just makes it worse.  Nobody has to see The Beast to know he's there.
scotty		 You don't think that The Beast is really...
gang		King Kong? Naw! God is that stupid! No stinkin' way! Oh boy, had me feelin' like a douf there for a minute! Whew, what a relief!
ham		Hey, who d'ya think'd win in a fight, King Kong or Godzilla?
gang		Godzilla. King Kong. 'Zilla! Kong! 'ZILLA! KONG!
gang		Yeah. That would be cool. I'd see that. Kong would kick his ass. No way, 'Zilla's got that fire breath stuff, he'd fry the monkey! 56
narrator		Besides The Great Bambino, who I still had no clue about, Benny had one living hero.
benny		Naw he ain't, not yet.
narrator		A guy that would break the stolen bases record that year that had stood for as many years as there were baseball's lost to The Beast.
gang		He's gonna go, Benny. Here he goes, man. Right now, watch, watch. There, there!
benny		No... not yet.
narrator		Maury Wills became a hero for what he did.
benny		He's... gonna... go... riiiight... now.
gang		 How'd you know that? How'd you guess? How'd ya know?
narrator		Benny... would become a Legend.
benny		 Get your glove, c'mon.
scotty		What's the big deal?
benny		Nightgame!
narrator		There was only one nightgame a year. On the Fourth of July, the whole sky would brighten up with fireworks, giving us just enough light for a game.  Benny felt like that all the time.
timmy		Truly rubba legs.
repeat		Truly rubba legs.
benny		What'id you say, crapface?
ham		Come on! We'll take you on right here, right now! Come on! Right now!
ham		Watch yer mouth, jerk!
ham		Asshole!
ham		Butt sniffer!
ham		Fart smeller!
ham		You mix yer Wheaties with your momma's toe jam!
ham		YOU PLAY BALL LIKE A GIRL!
ham		You heard me.
ham		Count on it, pee drinkin' craphead.
ham		PLAAAAAAAY BALLLLLLLL!
benny		Somebody get it!
ham		You - are - out - of - here! Out! Gone! Dead! To the moon! Roger, Wilco, Over and OUT!
benny		 That's one. Get used to it.
benny		Crack! Boom! Outta here! You see the looks on their faces? Did ya? It was like, "Duh... so that's how you play baseball."
bertram		Crap! I almost forgot. Chaw!
scotty		What is it?
ham		Geez, Smalls... I s'pose you don't who The Babe is either. It's chaw. Plug. Wad. Chewing Tobacco!
scotty		Whadda you do with it?
ham		You're killin' me, Smalls. You chew it, of course.
denunez		All the pros do.
timmy		Let's dip.
repeat		Let's dip.
benny		Smooth.
ham		Juicy.
squints		Tangy.
scotty		Kinda tastes like an ashtray smells.
denunez		Supposed to.
squints		Let's ride.
mom		I'll be back in an hour, Scotty, I'm taking Dad to the airport.
scotty		 'Kay. Where you goin'?
bill		Chicago, on business for a week. Listen, Scott, while I'm gone, you're the man of the house. Understand?
scotty		Yeah, I guess so.
bill		We'll take another stab at catch when I get back, okay? So, take care of things while I'm gone. I'm counting on you.
scotty		 Okay. I will.
narrator		Once we got over trying to be big shots, we just stuck to what we could handle, and swore off the hard stuff forever. When we finally got back together for some baseball, something amazing happened.  It was an omen... one that was meant just for Benjamin Franklin Rodriguez. 68
squints		Whad'ya get, Ham?
ham		A Mickey Mantle and 7 guys I never heard of. How 'bout you?
squints		A Brooks Robinson and a Koufax. Pretty good.
bertram		I got junk.
denunez		One Drysdale, a bunch a duds.
squints		Benny, whad -
ham		Hey, Benny, whatsa matter?
bertram		You okay, man?
squints		Oh, my God...
timmy		Imfuckingpossible.  Unstinkinbelievable!
repeat		Imfuckingpossible. Don't tell mom I said that tim.
timmy		I won't.
ham		This can't happen... can it?
bertram		It just did.
squints		Oh geez... Oh geez. I - I don't believe it. Maury Wills just stole 80 bases!
benny		We gotta play. I gotta play right now, guys. Right now.
scotty		What's it mean?
squints		It's a miracle, Smalls. A damn miracle.
narrator		We all expected something to happen right then... during that game. What we had just witnessed was bordering on the supernatural... we knew that greater hands than ours were at work.  It happened right in front of our noses... and we didn't even know it.
bertram		Bitchin'.
benny		Naw, it ain't.
squints		C'mon, Benny, maybe two, three guys in history have ever busted the guts out of a ball. That's what the omen was.
gang		Truly. Sure. Absolutely. Yeah-yeah, Benny. It must be so.
benny		All's it means is that we can't play no more. It's only noon, and I just blew the whole day for us.
denunez		No, you didn't. It's the most amazing thing I ever seen.
benny		Anybody got any money?  Then it ain't okay, 'cause now we can't play no more.
scotty		Yeah, we can.
benny		What, you got 98 extra cents just layin' around at home, Smalls?
scotty		No, but I got a ball.
scotty		 I got it! Let's play!
benny		Bitchin'. Your ball, your ups.
ham		Batter up!
timmy		Nice crank, Smalls.
denunez		Decent cut.
benny		It's outta here! Who's got the big bat now, boys!
gang		Smalls. Smalls. Smalls. Smalls.
ham		What the hell's he doing?
bertram		Maybe the shock of his first homer was just too much for him.
scotty		We gotta get that ball back.
ham		Right! Good one, Smalls.
squints		Sure. We'll just hop over and say, excuse me Mr. Beast sir, could we have our ball back, oh, and please don't kill us while we're here!
benny		It was a great shot, but forget about it... game's over. We'll get another ball.
scotty		You don't understand!
benny		Sure we do. You feel bad 'cause you belted a homer, and now we can't play no more.
scotty		No! You don't understand! THAT WASN'T MY BALL!
squints		Whadda you mean it wasn't your ball?
scotty		It's my stepdad's. I stole it from his trophy room. It was a present or soemthing - somebody gave it to him. We have to get it back. He's gonna kill me!
squints		Smalls... listen to me. This is a matter of life and death.  Where did your old man get that ball?
scotty		I dunno... I think some lady gave it to him.
squints		Some lady?...
scotty		Yeah, she even signed her name on it.  Some lady named Ruth... Baby Ruth.
gang		BAAAYYYBE RUUUUUTH?!
denunez		The Beast got it.
timmy		You're dead as a doornail, Smalls.
repeat		You're dead as a doornail, Smalls.
timmy		Nice knowing you.
repeat		Nice knowing -
timmy		- shut up, Tommy.  Smalls, you mean to tell me you went home and swiped a ball that was signed by Babe Ruth, and brought it out here and actually played with it?
repeat		And actually played with it?!
scotty		Yeah, but I was gonna put it back.
squints		But it was signed by Babe Ruth!
scotty		Well, who is she?!
ham		What?! What?!  What did he say?!
denunez		The Sultan of Swat!
bertram		The King of Krash!
gang		BABE RUTH!
ham		 The Great Bambino!
scotty		 OH, MY GOD! THAT'S THE SAME GUY?!
benny		Yeah. Smalls, Babe Ruth is the greatest baseball player that ever lived. People say he was less than a God, but more than a man. Ya know... like Hercules or somethin'.  The ball that you just aced to The Beast is worth... well, more than your whole life.
scotty		I don't feel so good.
benny		When does your old man get home from work?
scotty		He's gone on business for a week.
benny		Okay, we need 98 cents. So, everybody spread out and find some soda bottles and cash 'em in. We need a new baseball.
denunez		I dunno, Benny-man.
squints		He ain't gonna buy that, Benny. It doesn't look anything like the Babe's signature.
benny		It doesn't matter what it looks like. His mom's never gonna know the difference. This'll just buy us some time, ya dorks.
scotty		Huh?!
mom		Honey, what are you doing in here?
scotty		Ah... just looking at Bill's - I mean Dad's baseball.
mom		You know he doesn't like you touching his things.
scotty		Yeah, I know. Sorry, Mom.
mom		Has he ever told you about that ball?
scotty		Uh - no, not really, I don't think so - no, he hasn't at all - I don't know _anything_ about it.
mom		It's signed by Babe Ruth...
scotty		Um... really?
mom		It sure is. Dad's father gave it to him. Maybe someday, he'll give it to you.
scotty		 Uh... neat.
narrator		It was salt in an open wound. Even my own mom, who was only a grown-up girl, knew who Babe Ruth was.
scotty		So, how do we get it back?
squints		I have no idea.
narrator		I was dead meat. I knew it. They knew it. We had thought that those cards Benny had gotten meant that something great was going to happen. Now I figured that they'd just meant my life was over.
scotty		Can't we just hop the fence and get it?
ham		Remember Davy Stodenrous.
scotty		Oh, yeah. I forgot.  Hey? Why don't we just go over there and knock on the door, and ask Mr. Mertle to get it for us?
squints		Are you outta your mind?! Mr. Mertle is the meanest old man that ever lived! He's the one that sicked The Beast on The Toad!  That's not an option, Smalls. Forget about it.
scotty		Oh. Okay. I will.
squints		We need to assess the situation!
gang		 the situation! Okay!
bertram		Um, Squints? How do we do that?
squints		First we survey the enemy's environment, then we make note of the surrounding terrain.
ham		What?...
squints		 I heard that on "Combat." Let's just look out the window.
timmy		He's darin' us!
repeat		He's darin' us!
denunez		He's waitin' for us, man. Just like he did with The Toad.
gang		 Poor Toad.
ham		We're on his territory now.
bertram		Think he's pissed?
benny		Is Doby Gillis a dork? Anybody got any bright ideas?
narrator		We had absolutely no idea what the hell we were gonna do. So things started primitively.
bertram		It ain't mine. I told you, it's my little sister's!
squints		We've been going about this all wrong. I blame myself. We need total surprise. 
squints		Yeah-Yeah! Get hold of yourself! What'd you see?!
ham		- somebody slap him quick! We're losin' him!
benny		Sorry, Smalls. It was a good idea anyway.
denunez		Yeah, tough luck, Smalls.
ham		It won't be that bad, Smalls. Your dad'll probably only shoot you or something.
benny		Here. Put these on.
benny		Oh, ah, nuthin', ya know, just For, ah... Altitude leveling And stuff. Put it on.
timmy		Don't worry. We're professionals.
repeat		Our Dad's a contractor.
ham		HELP! I'M LOSIN' HIM!
narrator		Yeah-Yeah grew two feet in our eyes after that. There was no stinkin' way any of us would've showed back up, if we'd loaded our drawers.  Yeah-Yeah did. He showed back up and got right to work, like nothing ever happened.
scotty		I think I know how to get it.  Anybody got an Erector Set?
squints		That thing with the nuts and bolts and tiny wrenches that you can build junk out of?
scotty		Exactly.
squints		Never heard of it.
ham		I used to have one when I was like I dunno, a little kid.
gang		 Might have some pieces. Gee, I don't think so. I'd have to look. Maybe in the attic. Not in our room though.
bertram		Bitchin'.
scotty		I really like Erector Set.
gang		 Me too. I was just thinkin' the same thing. Couldn't agree more, Smalls. I play with mine all the time.
scotty		Let's get to work. Here's the plans -
squints		 Fire!
benny		I got it! I got it!
narrator		My life was over. Just as Bill had finally warmed up to me, and asked me to be the man of the house, I had to knock a priceless chunk of history into the clutches of a monster. Great.
benny		We can't get it back, Babe.  I'm sorry.
the babe		Now don't go peeing your pants or nuthin', I'm just here to give ya a hand.
benny		B - B - But, you're...
the babe		...dead? Legends never die, kid.
benny		You're really him. You're The Babe. The Sultan of Swat. The King -
the babe		- of Krash and a hundred other dopey names. Forget about that, we ain't got much time. I'm here 'cause you're in some kinda pickle, right?
benny		Yeah.
the babe		A baseball with my John Hancock on it went over a fence, and you can't get it back. Right?
benny		Yeah, right.
the babe		 See ya, kid.
benny		Wait! I can't.
the babe		Can't what?
benny		Go into that backyard.
the babe		Why not?
benny		There's a Beast back there.
the babe		What kind?
benny		A giant gorilla-dog-thing that ate one kid already.
the babe		Is that a fact? Listen to me, kid. 
benny		Sure, yeah, five Maury Wills all in the same pack.
the babe		What're the odds on that?
benny		About a zillion to one.
the babe		More even. Someone's tellin' you somethin', kid. And if I was you... I'd listen.
benny		Yeah, but what?
the babe		You're the one with the rubba legs. Figure it out.  You gotta do what your heart tells you, else you'll spend the rest of your life wishin' you had.
benny		You mean, I should hop that fence - and pickle with THE BEAST?!
the babe		Lemme tell you something... you remember that called shot homer I hit?
benny		Sure, the greatest most famous and legendary home run of all time.
the babe		Yeah, right, well said. 
benny		Sure ya did, Babe.
the babe		Not a chance. Matter of fact, all the way down to first I kept sayin' to myself, "you lucky bum."  Think about that, kid. I'll see ya later.
benny		 I had a dream. Get dressed. We're goin' to the sandlot.
scotty		Benny - wait. It's okay, it was my fault. I'll just take whatever I get. You don't have to do this.
benny		 Yeah I do, Smalls. I have to.
benny		YOWWWWW!
benny		OOOOH SSSSHIT!
scotty		What're we waitin' for?! Let's go after 'em!
toddler		 Big goggy.
benny		Sandlot!
squints		This way! Shortcut!
benny		LOOK OUT!
benny		I GOT IT!
scotty		Help him! I'm stuck! I'm stuck! Help him!
scotty		Pick him up! Scoot him up so I can let him off!  COME ON!
benny		We can play forever now.
scotty		Um, we brought your dog home.
scotty		Well, sir... um, we kind of, well, what happened was -
benny		- we hit a baseball into your yard. Then we tried to get it and -
scotty		You knew Babe Ruth?
benny		Yeah.
scotty		 Yes, sir.
scotty		Well, you see... that ball belongs to my stepdad... and, uh - it was signed by Babe Ruth.
scotty		I don't think so.
scotty		Yes, sir...
benny		Well, that's really nice of you... but this ball really is signed by The Babe.
benny		Oh my God - Murderers' Row.
scotty		Babe Ruth.
scotty		Deal.
bill		This better be good.
narrator		It was weird that Benny said Babe Ruth was like the Hercules of baseball, and then The Beast's name turned out to be Hercules.  It was also strange that Mr. Mertle had a Murderers' Row ball to replace the one signed by The Babe.
mom		Guys, supper's ready.
dad		 Give us another ten minutes. I'm helpin' my boy break in his new glove.
narrator		That was the last summer that we all got to play together. 
coach		 Give 'em hell, Jet.
the jet		I'll do my best, Maury.
umpire		SAFE! SAFE! SAFE!
scott		 The Jet stole home! The Jet stole home!!
****Dialogues from script :Save_the_Last_Dance.txt****

woman		This seat taken?
woman		I love ballet. Never had the body for it. Do you dance?
sara		Used to.
glynn		What's the matter?   It was good.
sara		 My knees still knock when I do my free form. Did you notice that?
glynn		I noticed that it was fine.
glynn		Sara.   You'll get in.
sara		Don't lie because you love me.     My free form sucks.
glynn		 I've got something for you. Come on. Sit. Mouth closed, eyes shut. No pouting. No peeking.
glynn		For luck tomorrow. Not that you'll need it. You dance like an angel.
sara		I love the necklace but you're still the best luck I'll ever have.
woman		Nice... the necklace.
sara		Oh. It's a good luck charm. Doesn't always work.
woman		Mine either.
lindsay		Wanna pray? You're leaving for Philly after first period. I won't see you. We should pray.
sara		 Lindsay... no. Not here.
lindsay		'Awesome, Father, S.J. auditions today. She's ready for them. Please make them ready for her. Even if she screws up. Thanks. Amen.'  God's gotten me outta all kinds of shit. He oughta be able to get you into Juilliard.
glynn		Where'd you get those, traitor?
sara		Ellison -- Mr. Ellison. He actually told me to break a leg.
glynn		Roses from the principal, even droopy, out-of-season yellow ones, is beyond cool, kiddo. You're definitely movin' up in the world.
sara		Know what would be great? If you didn't drop me off at the bus station. If we just kept going until we get to Philly.
glynn		Ruin everyone's Valentine's Day and not have a shop when I get back. That's your definition of great? I can see the headline now: 'Starving Artist Kills Unfit Mother.'  Sweetheart, we talked about this. I'll get there as soon as I can.
sara		Right. This is the hardest, most important day of my life and all you can do is get there as soon as you can. Thanks, Mom.
sara		So I guess I'll see you later.
glynn		I won't miss your audition, Sara. I'll be there, okay? If I have to swim the Susquehanna, I'll be there.
sara		Swim?   You can't swim, Mom.
glynn		I'll float then.
glynn		Hey... Happy Valentine's Day.
judge		Is there anything you'd like to share about your free form before you begin? A motif... a theme?
sara		Well, it's um, pretty self- explanatory. The theme.
sara		Thank you.
roy		Hi.
sara		Hi.
roy		Have a good ride?
sara		Slept through most of it.
roy		Guess you got stuff.    Baggage.
sara		Two suitcases.     One big one.
roy		Looks like they're unloading. -- You hungry? We can stop somewhere if you want.
sara		I'm kinda tired.
roy		I didn't like leavin' you so soon after the funeral. I wouldn't have if you hadn't asked me to go. I mean, I could've hung around. Helped you say good-bye. That's what you were doin', wasn't it?
sara		Uh-huh.
roy		That's what I figured you were doin'.
roy		Look. Sara. I feel bad too. I mean, we both got hit by the same bolt of lightning. You don't have to pretend this is easy.  Everything's upside down right now but don't worry. We'll work this bachelor-father thing out. Hell, it ain't like we're movin' in with strangers. We got a pretty good idea about each other, right?
sara		Thought you were moving to Fells Point.
roy		Fell through.
roy		Not much of what you're used to. But the water's hot and the fridge is full. And I made room in the closets for you. Girl's gotta have closets, right? You even get your own bed. I'll crash on the couch.
sara		You bought a bed?
roy		 Pardon me. Your own futon.     Check it out. On the other side.
sara		Do you have a phone?
roy		Of course I have a phone.
sara		You didn't at the last place.    The last place I saw anyway.
roy		Things change. You've changed. You grew up on me. Overnight.
sara		Over the summer. You blew me off for some gig on the road, remember?  Can I call Lindsay? Let her know I got here alright.
roy		Are you alright, Sara?  I just wanna know how you feel.
sara		I feel fine.     I feel like calling Lindsay.
roy		Phone's in the kitchen.   Knock yourself out.
sara		I can take the school bus. Tomorrow.
roy		School bus? That's the other Oz, Dorothy. Patterson kids ride the city Metro. Or walk.
sara		Well, I know how to do both.
roy		Not around here you don't. Not until you get the hang of things.
roy		I called about your transcripts. You're all set. Patterson's got a pretty good Humanities program. No ballet, but we can find a studio someplace close for after school --
sara		-- I don't think I'll have time. I have to study, I'll be busy.
roy		Good idea. Take a break. Not too long a break though. You're a dancer. You should dance. Stay on top of your art.
sara		Like you stay on top of yours?
roy		Maybe I ain't playin' no grand ballrooms or fancy jazz festivals, but I'm playing.
sara		 I didn't mean it like that.
roy		S'alright. Hell, I wish I had half the time I wasted gettin' wasted. But those days are over. You'll see. I got my life on track.
sara		You don't have to go in with me. Since I'm all set. I mean, I have done this before. Gone to school. I'll be fine. I am fine. Really.
roy		-- Pick you up. Three-thirty.
sara		 Yeah.   Sure. Whatever.
administrator		... It's no fun being uprooted in the middle of your senior year. We realize that and we'll do what we can to help with the transition.
sara		About school?     No.   Not really.
sara		I'm not gonna be here that long. Besides, it's just a city, right?
sara's pov		 as she MOVES FORWARD. A crush of KIDS -- mostly black with a sprinkling of white and Latino faces thrown in. Kids like her. Only they don't dress like her. They dress like commercials for Tommy Hilfiger and Calvin Klein. And they definitely don't sound like her...  TEENAGER #1 Yo, man, check it, the muthafuckers wasn't playin', they was jackin'. Ten rides in five days. For real.  TEENAGER #2 Fools got caught for real too. Ten years in five days. Stall that shit!  Sara walks on, taking this netherworld in, eavesdropping on other conversations. It's not just the words. It's how they say them: Loud. Matter-of-fact. Cool. A cooler cool. Like they breathe static electricity.    16.  40   CONTINUED:                                                      40  That's it! The entire student body is energized. Sara's thoughts are jolted by two black girls squeezing by. One clips Sara's elbow as she passes, knocking it against a locker. They keep going as if they don't see her. No one seems to see her. Welcome to mass avoidance at Patterson High.
chenille		That's how easy it is to give to charity around here. Don't put your shit on the floor.
sara		 Thanks.
jurasinski		In Cold Blood    represents a turning point in our    country's literature. Take the cap    off and tell me why that is, Mr.    Ricard.
snookie		Gay rights. That Compote dude who wrote it? Sweet tooth. Straight- up fag, Mr. J.
jurasinski		Thank you, Mr. Ricard. Your genius grant is in the mail. Anyone else?
jurasinski		Ms... Johnson. You can catch up later. If this is over your head.
sara		It's a non-fiction novel. The first of its kind. Capote mixed true events with things he couldn't know, so he made them up.
sara		Yeah.   That is part of it.
patrick		That's all of it. Capote wasn't first. Richard Wright and James Baldwin did the same thing. Wasn't nobody tryin' to read them though.
sara		Lots of people read them.
patrick		Lots of people like who?      You? Hello. Didn't think so.
snookie		Mr. J.! Girl needs to bone up. Give her a pass to the lib'ary.
jurasinski		She can have your pass, Mr. Ricard. Since you obviously never use it.
her pov		 Table cliques of the cafeteria.
on chenille		 glimpsing Sara from the corner of her eye as Sara walks away.
wonk		... I know you're new to the table, but think about it. We're the Y2K generation and nobody takes us seriously. We don't take ourselves seriously. Just look around. Half the student body is D.O.A. -- and that's from the neck up, Clara.
sara		Sara.   It's Sara.
chenille		You finished?
sara		God!    Thank you!
chenille		 Gotta watch where you sit, girl. And it's Chenille. But you're still welcome. Let's catch some air before the bell rings.
sara		What's it called? What she's doing?
chenille		A dance.
sara		 No, I mean... the step, the...
sara		Asshole.
chenille		Asshole beaucoup. In this crowd, you gotta be more specific.
sara		 He's in one of my classes. Thinks he's so... smart. So cute.
chenille		I don't know about cute but he is smart. Real smart. Real trip, too.
sara		So you know him?
chenille		Patrick Reynolds? Hell yeah, I know him. He's my brother.
nikki		You comin' tonight?
patrick		Gotta work.
nikki		You already skipped three meetings. 
patrick		You already fired my ass, Nikki. Once and done. Over. Out. 'Bye.
patrick		Hit me and shut the hell up.
snookie		I'ma shut up... after I say it been real frigid 'round here since y'all broke up. 'Specially since she broke up with you. That was harsh, way she canceled your ass like a stamp for that Howard U dude. But their shit's over. Now might be the time to forget mistakes that was made. Shoot. You been with the girl since ninth grade.
patrick		Why you sweatin' me, Snookie?
snookie		 'Cause I'm about you, man. I want a happy ending. Aww, shit. Tuck an' duck. Here he comes. The hood of the 'hood, up to no good.
malakai		Medicine man...
snookie		 Did I tell you, Malakai, man, how chill it is to have you back? We ain't been bad without cha.
malakai		Shut the fuck up and step your lame ass off, Snookie. You heard me. Space.
patrick		What happened to you at lunch, man?
malakai		Business.
patrick		So you're hangin' in, man? Feelin' strong about being back?
malakai		Not at this motherfucker. Out a week and where am I? Fucking home sweet high school. Jail away from jail. You can have it.
patrick		You gonna stay though.   Right?
malakai		Judge says it's school or JuVee and I sure as hell ain't goin' back there. Shit. I never knew a year could be such a long time.
patrick		You up for some hoops after school? Break your free-throw back in. Chump the chumps like we used to.
malakai		Up for it? Hell-the-fuck yeah, man. Let's do it.
chenille		That's your old man? Now he's cute.
sara		He's embarrassing.
chenille		 Yeah.   He is. For you.
roy		How'd it go?
sara		Fine.  Tomorrow I catch the bus.
sara		What?
roy		Hungry and Healthys. I asked at the market. They're the best. So. What do you feel like?  Lamb Chop Suey? Tropical Tuna? Primavera Paradise?
sara		I had a big lunch.
roy		What do you wanna do? You wanna hang out with me? Go to my gig. You can if you want.
sara		It's a school night, Roy.
roy		Right.   School night.    Got it.
snookie		I need a date --
chenille		Why?   Your hand busy?
snookie		-- For the prom. And if it wasn't for that kinda undue attitude, you could be the lucky girl, Chenille. My personal prom queen. I can see us now.
chenille		You must be lookin' in your dreams.
snookie		Help me, man.    Defend me.
patrick		I got my own problems, Snook.
snookie		What problems? You goin' to college. Doctor college after that. You large, man.
patrick		I ain't gonna be doctor nothin' if I don't get in and I'm not in 'til I get my letter.
chenille		It's in the mail, Patrick.       Okay?
snookie		 I probably coulda been a doctor too. If I hadn't got left back that time.
chenille		That time? What? Fifth and sixth grade don't count?
patrick		 That's too big.
sara		I know it's too big.
patrick		I wouldn't do that if I were you.
sara		 Who died and made you teacher?
patrick		Know the difference between ethyl glycol and methyl acetate? Both got three elements, two parts the same. It's that first part, C2 versus C3. C3 could blow a vial right out a person's hand.
patrick		I misread the component.
chenille		Girl, how you get your legs to twist like that?
diggy		 Yeah. What was all that double- jointed cheerleader shit?
chenille		This is Diggy.     Thinks she's down.
diggy		Egg-cuse me?     I am down.
chenille		So, Sara.   What's up with that?
sara		 Nothing's up with it. I used to kind of dance. Ballet. Mostly.
chenille		You should hit Feetz with us tomorrow night. It's a club. Sorta members only.
diggy		Un-der-ground.
sara		I don't know...
chenille		Come on and hang out. Snook dee's sometime. He can get you in.  Yo, Snook
chenille		She needs to get hooked up for Feetz. All the way up. Sara, give Snook twenty dollars.
sara		For what?
snookie		I.D. Eye-dee. How you think you gettin' in? On your looks?  Chenille, your girl is weak. Shit. I got my rep to watch. I can't just be gettin' any green in.
sara		Look closer. And if I still look green, I think maybe you should wipe the crust from your eyes.
chenille		You gonna pay the man or what?
snookie		She ain't got it. Look at her. Loud-talkin' me and broke as a damn promise.
sara		I don't even know where it is.
chenille		So we'll hook up at my house. Go together. I will have your I.D.
patrick		Feetz ain't no square dance.
sara		That's okay. I dance in circles. Probably around you.
roy		I'm splittin'.  Whatcha readin'?
sara		Chemistry.
roy		You're takin' chemistry?
sara		Right now it's taking me.
roy		Give yourself some time. Well. See ya in the mornin'. Maybe I'll call between sets.
sara		I'll be asleep.
sara		Cool outfit.
chenille		Slammin'.   Slammin' outfit.
sara		... I look okay?
chenille		Yeah.  You look okay.  Moma Dean. I'm leavin'.
chenille		 Grandmom, Sara. Sara, Grandmom. Also known as Momma Dean. And handsome here is Christopher.
sara		Hi.
momma dean		Hello. Now don't get him all riled up, Chenille. I want to get some sleep tonight.
sara		Is that... is he... yours?
chenille		He sure ain't Momma Dean's.
chenille		... He'll be one in July. Best mistake I ever made. Kenny -- Christopher's father -- he's the worst. Triflin'. Okay?
sara		Chenille.   She's ugly.   She's fat!
chenille		She's twenty-one too. I ain't got all night. Let's hop.
sara		Wait. I have to ask you something.  Do I really look alright?
chenille		Gimme that '89 Madonna shit.    Your jacket. Give it here.
sara		It's from the GAP.
chenille		It's country. You look country in it. Take it off.
sara		I'm not walking in there in my bra.
chenille		Rope dopes.   C'mon.
doorman		Chenille.    Lookin' fine.   As always.
chenille		Too fine to stand in line?
bouncer		Changed your hair.
sara		 Can't get much more underground than this.
chenille		Let's get our table 'fore it gets crashed and I hafta hurt somebody.
sara		What are you, some kind of V.I.P.?
chenille		Snook hooks me up whenever he dees.
slacker		Aw'right, aw'right. You got it.
chenille		Got what? 
chenille		That's how I thought I had it.  See ya.
nikki		What is up with this place? Seems like they're lettin' anybody in.
chenille		Yeah.   And they started with you.
nikki		I'm Nikki. Alyssa. Jasmin. Tiff'nee. You know Diggy, right, Marsha?
sara		Sara. It's Sara. And I know you. We have a class together.
nikki		That don't mean you know me.
chenille		Quit it, Nikki.
nikki		Quit what? I ain't walkin' on eggshells just 'cause you brought the Brady Bunch to the Negro Club.
sara		 Maybe you came to the wrong spot, Nikki. I'm pretty sure this one doesn't have any Negroes.
nikki		I'm pretty sure you came with one.
chenille		Oh, no. Uh-uh, wench. You did not just call me a Negro.
diggy		Alright, y'all. Chill.
nikki		Tell her to chill. She always got somethin' to say.
chenille		I can say a lot more. Keep runnin' your mouth, Nikki. I'll lay all your shit bare.
diggy		Why you burn her like that?
chenille		'Cause I can't stand her ass and the way she played my brother. I need a drink, Sara. Let's walk.
chenille		That's him.        Comin' over.   Kenny? Don't look.
chenille		Where's my money, Kenny?
kenny		I'm a little short this week. Don't jump off. It's comin'.
chenille		It's comin'?    No. You lyin'.
kenny		Lemme rap to you about the situation on the dance floor.
chenille		Rum and Coke.    No ice.   Hook me up.
nikki		Let's dance.
patrick		 Let's not.
nikki		Oh?   It's gonna be like that.
patrick		How'd you think it was gonna be? That you was gonna drop me and pick me up whenever you felt like it?
nikki		It ain't all that serious, Patrick.
patrick		It ain't anymore, Nikki.     Not to me.
sara		Rum and Coke, straight up. And a beer. I don't care. Anything.
sara		It's just a beer.
patrick		Then it should be the best beer. You'd know that if you really drank.
sara		Whatever.
patrick		What's that mean? Whatever.
sara		Whatever you want it to mean. You're the whiz kid, right? You know everything.
patrick		 I'm supposed to be dizzy by now. Remember? From all those circles you danced around me.
sara		I don't feel like dancing.
patrick		But you do know how...?
sara		Would I be here if I didn't?
patrick		... Let's do it then.    C'mon.
patrick		Now move your hips. Not so fast.  'Flashlight! Neon light! Stop light! Everybody got a little light under the sun.'
jasmin		She's all up in your nut, Nikki... Oh, that's right. It ain't your nut anymore.
nikki		It is if I want it to be. He is if I want him to be. That bitch ain't got shit on me.
on patrick		 leaving Sara, slicing through a clot of looky-loos until he reaches Malakai. He jumps into the fray.
patrick		 pummeling his dealer into cowering submission. Only then does he look over at Malakai who, eyes engorged with rage, is standing over his opponent, kicking and stomping him with no signs of letting up. Patrick can see Malakai's too far gone for talk. He rushes him from behind, nearly lifts Malakai off his feet to swing him away from the dealer's writhing body on the floor.
patrick		Man, what the hell are you doin'? Tryin' to get sent back up?
malakai		They the ones tryin' shit. Comin' here. Squarin' off in my shit.
patrick		You couldn't let it slide?
malakai		Let it slide tonight, they come back strong tomorrow. You know that.
patrick		Malakai, you fuck up parole, you ain't gonna back to JuVee. Eighteen and up, that's Jessup. Hardcore lockdown. You want that?
malakai		 I want what was mine. Feetz is my spot. I'ma do business here just like I did before. Like we did before. And if I gotta stomp some niggers in my way, so be it.
patrick		Well, you definitely got the stompin' part down.
malakai		We fucked those fools up for sure.
patrick		 For damn sure, man.
diggy		It's about to get real out here. Cops and shit. I'm gone.
chenille		... Yeah, I'ma tell you. Tell you like I keep tellin' you, Patrick. You need to let Malakai alone. Let him handle his own shit before he drags you down in it.
patrick		Chenille. I heard you the first five hundred times.
chenille		I'll see you Monday.  He'll walk you.
sara		It's just a few blocks.   It's okay.
chenille		No, it's not okay. Would you tell the girl it ain't okay?
patrick		It's not okay, okay?  Come on, Braveheart.
patrick		What?
sara		 What?
patrick		Why you keep lookin' at me?
sara		I have to look somewhere. The streets are deserted. Might as well look at you.
patrick		That's not why. You wanna know somethin'. Ask somethin'.
sara		It's not a question. It's the way you were beating that kid up. You looked so mad.
patrick		I was mad and he wasn't no kid. But you're from the suburb Mars, right? Folks don't fight there.
sara		Not like that.  You were really kicking his ass.
sara		Are you laughing at me?
patrick		My friend was in trouble.
sara		Maybe he's my question. Your friend. Chenille doesn't like him.
patrick		She likes him. It don't stop her from trippin' off him now and then. But Malakai's good people. We go back. Way back. You know, like they say, through thick and thin.  So, how'd you like Feetz?
sara		It was great.
patrick		Once you got used to the music.
sara		It wasn't the music I wasn't used to. I mean, it's not the first time I heard hip-hop, Patrick.
patrick		Uh-huh. Bet you listen to it all the time.
sara		Not all the time. But a lot.
patrick		We gettin' any closer to your crib or should we stop for food and water?
sara		We passed it.
patrick		You passed it.
sara		Thanks for walking me.
patrick		No problem.
sara		So.      I'll see ya.
patrick		Is that 'see ya' like gee-whiz, had a great time, can't wait to see you again? 
sara		I haven't said gee-whiz since I was six. But I really had a great time... okay?
patrick		Okay.
roy		Figured I'd put a little marrow in your bones. Siddown, siddown.  ... See any of 'em last night?
roy		I came home on my break.
sara		Oh.
roy		... Oh? Jesus! You're hard! Look. You're seventeen. If you wanna go out, go out. But don't lie to me. On top of everything else, don't make me worry like that about you. 
sara		You're right. I should've said something. I'm sorry.
roy		What're you gonna do today? Anything special?
sara		Nope.     Nothing special.
snookie		... How   you   know I can't do nothin'   for   you? I'm the hardest workin'   man   in showbizness, girl. C'mon.    Let   me be the bomb in your shell.
patrick		You do the shit to yourself, man. The bomb in your shell?
snookie		That was black magic, Patrick. It's gonna work one of these days.
snookie		Last one on the rack. I snatched it up for you. Rang it up on my discount.
patrick		 Thank you, Snookie.
snookie		 You workin' or what, man?
patrick		On my way.   Soon as I get outta here...
patrick		Throwin' a party?
sara		Just adding to my collection. I heard some stuff I didn't have last night.
patrick		 Well, you were fly anyway. Last night. Dancin', I mean.
sara		Not as fly as you.
patrick		 Nobody's as fly as me.
sara		 Not yet anyway.
patrick		Maybe we could hook up later. After school or somethin'. Work on some of your moves. If you want.
sara		Okay.   Sure.
patrick		By the way, Hammer's pretty much played out.
sara		 Not to me.
sara		 It was so... slamming, Lindsay. The dancing! I'm going again. What? No, I haven't seen anybody get shot yet. God, I didn't move to Bosnia.
sara		What happened?
toni		 We should hang out sometime, Sara. The two of us. Whenever you decide to lose the tan?
roy		I don't know what to say.    I don't.
sara		How 'bout fuck it? Or should I say fuck her? It's a fuck-fest, Roy.
roy		Don't talk to    me like that, Sara.  I thought you    were goin' to your friend's house    after school. Obviously, you    changed your mind. So I'm sorry.     Alright?
sara		Sorry you got caught.
roy		Sorry I got... observed
rhonda		Don't be mad at him. It's my fault. I'm real sorry, honey.
roy		It's nobody's 'fault.' It's over. Let it be over. We're all adults.
rhonda		I think he means you know about sex. That we have it and he likes it. Isn't that what you mean, Roy?
sara		Really?   How often do you have it?
rhonda		Things been kind of slow since you got here. Once upon a time we were real rabbits, weren't we, Roy?
roy		Rhonda.   Shut up.   Please.
patrick		I got it.
malakai		Medicine Man.     You know Tute.
tute		You call this a job, man?
patrick		Actually, I call it a car wash. The work I do, yeah, that's a job.
tute		I need some sticks.    Watch my ride, Malakai.
patrick		You hangin' with him now?    Think that's a good idea, 'Kai?
malakai		You got a better one?
patrick		You could try layin' all this shit off for awhile. Give yourself a chance on the other side.
malakai		What other side?
patrick		You know what I mean. It ain't like you don't have good sense.
malakai		I got sense enough to know who I am, what I can do and where I can do it. I ain't like you. People don't just up and hand me shit.
tute		We ain't here for our health.     You workin', then work.  And don't forget the rims.
patrick		 I know that, Mrs. Gwynn.
begin montage		 in which a series of STUDENTS parade in front of Mrs. Gwynn.
snookie		Me? I wanna operate on cars. Some place fly like the Kentucky Derby. -- Ah-ha! Joke on you...
diggy		A Rock-n-Rap club in L.A. I'm gonna put a tattoo parlor on the roof. Soon as I find some investors...
serious student		I want to be a lawyer, but I believe in God so I'm not sure about it...
toni		I'm moving to Idaho.      I hate it here.
chenille		Beauty school. 
malakai		Plans? Yeah. I plan not to be poor. Next question...
nikki		I get into U.M.B.C., financial aid, everything...
sara		I don't think it's realistic, what you're asking. Things happen. Things change. And the changes change you. What's the point of plans?
sara		You can't direct destiny.
sara		That was a long time ago.
sara		 I don't know. Take a year off. Work. Go to college later on.
patrick		Feel the groove. Don't let the music mess with you.
sara		Did you always want to be a doctor?
patrick		Who said I wanna be a doctor?
sara		Chenille.   Everybody.
patrick		Keep it tight.     Watch your butt.
sara		What kind of doctor do you want to be?
patrick		Pediatrics. I like kids.         Come on, stay with me. You're slackin'.
sara		Do you have any? Kids.
patrick		No.   Do you?
sara		I wasn't being smart, Patrick.
patrick		Wouldn't be the first time.
sara		Screw you.      I'm brilliant.
sara		I didn't get it. That thing you just did. Show me again?
patrick		What was that shit you just did?
sara		A releve.    Over ice.     With a twist. 
patrick		You used to dance?
sara		Uh-huh. Used to as in don't any more. And don't ask me why.
patrick		Why not?
sara		Because I don't want to talk about it.
patrick		That's why you brought it up. Did that whole relieve thing. 'Cause you don't wanna talk about it?
sara		Because it's not a big deal.       Can we just concentrate on this?
patrick		Yeah, we can concentrate.  But I think it is a big deal. Whatever it is you don't wanna talk about.
sara		 I have met somebody. Sort of.       I think. I mean, there's this guy...
patrick		 What y'all doin' to my nephew?
kenny		Why's he do that?
chenille		He's a baby.   They cry.
kenny		He was screaming, Chenille.
chenille		He don't know you, Kenny.
kenny		I'm his father. He knows me.  ... What should I do?
chenille		Come around more often.
kenny		See?    I can't talk to you.
chenille		And I can't depend on you! Am I askin' you to do anything for him you ain't supposed to do?
kenny		You don't ask, Chenille. You make demands. You want money, you --
chenille		-- I want you to pick up some of the slack. You always have an excuse.
kenny		It's not like that.    I get tied up.
chenille		You wanna talk about tied up? Try gettin' up in the middle of the night to change diapers and give him bottles or stayin' up with him when he's sick and havin' to drag your ass to school the next day.
kenny		Look.    I'm doin' the best I can.
chenille		It ain't good enough, Kenny!
sara		What are you doing?
malakai		You didn't see nothin', you don't say nothin'. Not unless you want a taste for yourself. And that can be arranged.
patrick		Didn't you like it when you 'used' to dance?
sara		Yeah I liked it. I was gonna go to Juilliard. That school fucked up my entire life. It's a long story.
patrick		Let me guess. You don't wanna talk about it.
patrick		I stole a bike here once.
sara		Why'd you do that?
patrick		'Cause I didn't have one.
sara		That's a good reason.
patrick		I used to do wild shit like that.
sara		You and Malakai?
patrick		Yep.   Most of the time.
sara		I don't get you guys.    You seem so... different.
patrick		We're not.
sara		Maybe you weren't then but you are now. You said you changed.
patrick		Doesn't make me different from him. Not the way you think it does.
sara		I think Malakai's scary.   And I know you're not.
patrick		 What you mean by scary? 'Kai's tough. He has to be. He still got a good heart. I know.
sara		Patrick.
patrick		Let me finish. Me and him got into some shit awhile back. Real bad shit. We held up a gas station off 95. I bailed the ride -- jumped out the car. 'Kai kept goin', got caught.  I knew what he was gonna do that night. Knew the car was hot. I woulda been guilty as him if they had caught me, if Malakai had served my name up. But he didn't.
sara		That means you owe him something?
patrick		He did his time plus most of mine. I owe him that.
sara		No matter how much he messes up?
patrick		We all mess up. Maybe Malakai gave up. But he's still m'boy and he still got a chance. I ain't just gonna cross him completely off and be like everybody else.
sara		I stole a hat once. When I was twelve. My mom found it under my mattress, made me take it back.
patrick		Gangsta' Sara.     Stole a hat.   Call the F.B.I.
sara		You gonna turn me in?
patrick		I think I'll wait for you to surrender.  Were you tight with your mom, Sara? I mean, y'all get along and shit?
sara		 Yeah...tight... got along and shit
patrick		So she meant something to you. How come you never talk about her?
sara		There's nothing to say.
patrick		 Know why there's nothing to say? Because you don't talk about her. You won't talk about her.
sara		I'm sorry she's dead. God! What do you want me to do? Run through the streets screaming?
patrick		Why not?    If it helps.
sara		 Well, it won't. So drop it.
patrick		And you call Malakai scary.
momma dean		I know you're not puttin' those dirty hands inside my refrigerator.
momma dean		This what you're lookin' for?
sara		Are you gonna tell me where we're going?  Why is the surprise for me? You're the one with something to celebrate.
patrick		We can celebrate together.
sara		I wanted to get you something and I couldn't figure out what. It's not much but I hope you like it.
patrick		I like it.   I love it.    Thank you.
sara		Wait.     There's more.
sara		We have an audience.      Work with me.
patrick		 Work with you?
sara		 Grab something.
patrick		Surprise... Sara?
sara		 I can't. I can't go in.
patrick		 You have to go in. This is where I'm bringing you. The ballet.
sara		 I know, but --
patrick		 But what?
patrick		I thought you would like it.
sara		I did.
patrick		You ain't actin' like you did.
sara		I'm sorry.
sara		I don't want you to think I didn't have a good time tonight, Patrick. I did. But ballet isn't a part of my life anymore.
patrick		Why not? What happened? You just woke up one day and decided to waste your talent.
sara		 How do you know I have talent? Because I did some stupid leg trick.
patrick		I saw the look on your face when you did it, Sara. The same look I saw tonight. Goofy happy. So if you're gonna tell me somethin' about not dancing, at least tell me somethin' real.
sara		Maybe I don't want it to be real.
sara		What I want is to wake up and see my mom. For things to go back to the way they were. When they made sense. When my life made sense.  ... But she promised to be there. I made her promise. And then I didn't wait for her. I should have but they called my name and I didn't say anything. I just went out and danced. I was mad. I needed her and she wasn't there.
sara		 She was dying while I was dancing and I was mad at her and I'm sorry. I'm sorry...
patrick		It's not your fault it rained or she died. Or that you danced. That's what you were there for. Your mom would've expected you to do what you did.
sara		That's what makes it so bad. She always did what was right for me. I wanted to be a prima ballerina -- had to be. Even if it took most of our money, all of her spare time. I didn't care. It was my stupid dream and it killed her. All she wanted was for it to come true.
patrick		You still got whatever you had when your mom was alive, Sara. She wouldn't want you to give up.
sara		I know... but she... I just don't think I can do it without her.
patrick		 Do you want to do it, Sara? I mean you. Do you want Juilliard?
sara		Yeah.   I do.
patrick		Then it's on you to make the dream come true.
sara		Yeah.   For my mom.
patrick		For her.   For you.
sara		See you tomorrow?
patrick		Lemme see that move you did.     That cute leg relieve thing.  Come on, Sara.
sara		 It hurts! I'm out of shape and it hurts. Okay? Satisfied?
patrick		 That's what you call outta shape, what's it take to get you in shape?
sara		Practice.
patrick		This is the perfect spot for that. You can run around and I can sit under the trees and watch you.
sara		I don't get in shape like that. But it's still a good spot.  I got my application for Juilliard. Just in time too. They're holding auditions in Baltimore next month.
patrick		That's great!
sara		I'll never be ready in a month.
patrick		Sara, you puttin' the mojo on yourself.
sara		 Mojo?
patrick		Negative shit. White folks call it karma. The bad kind.
sara		You don't understand. Ballet takes a lot of time, a lot of preparation. I used to practice two, three hours every day. I'm so far behind...
patrick		Quit whinin' and catch up then.
sara		It's not as easy as that. My free form still sucks. It's still the weakest part of my routine. That hasn't changed.
patrick		So I'll help you with it.
sara		You will?
patrick		 Yeah. I'll help you. Tell me what you need to do and let's get busy.
montage sequence		 BEGINS OVER THEME MUSIC.
sara		Let's skip.  Later.
roy		Let's 'skip'?  Three months and she's skipping?
another angle		 Nikki and her crew . Nikki hasn't seen Patrick and Sara. She's showing her crew a dance.
another angle		 Chenille, Diggy and another black girl.     Fraternizing.
deejay		Master P with the 'Ghetto D'. Showmesomethin', showmesomethin', give up that cruel. Eyes on you!
patrick		Nobody's watchin' you but me.
snookie		Go, Patrick!    Go, Patrick!
diggy		Go, Sara!   Go, Sara!
nikki		Watch me squash their shit.    Hard.
on nikki		 Shoving, pushing, and barging her way up to Patrick. Without preamble or regard for Sara, she starts dancing with him. Patrick looks at Sara but he's somehow dancing with Nikki. Sara retreats with daggers in her eyes. Pissed.
malakai		You ain't never gonna look as good as she does with him. That's oil. You're milk. Ain't no point in tryin' to mix.
patrick		Sara...?
sara		What?
patrick		I'm sorry.
sara		He's in D.C. Blues Alley.   He'll be gone all night.
sara		Roy's demo. The only one he ever cut. Kinda grows on you.
sara		Wanna see my room?
sara		Sorry...
toni		Whatever you do, don't fuck him.
sara		Excuse me?
toni		'Hit it and quit it,' that's their motto.
sara		Whose motto?
toni		Black guys.    Everybody knows that.
sara		Don't forget, they all have big dicks and beat their wives. Everybody knows that too.
arvel		You smell, boy.
patrick		How can a piece of shit tell?
malakai		You been scarce lately, man. Where you been?
arvel		Somewhere dreamin' of a White Christmas...
lip		... And Christmas ain't even for 'nother six months.
snookie		Lip. It's a so-to-speak thang, you ignorant fuck. 
patrick		 Back out my business, boy.
malakai		 That's why you ain't got time for your boyz no more, you too busy frontin'. Too busy snowflakin'.
patrick		How am I frontin', 'Kai? I made time for this bullshit, didn't I?
lip		Aww, man. You busted. That's why your jaws are gettin' so tight.
snookie		You the one need his jaws tightened with your pork-ass instigatin' self.
arvel		 Order somethin', Patrick. This ain't no goddamn soup line.
patrick		Y'all hangin' tonight or what?
malakai		We thinkin' about slidin' through that new rec center opened up on the Eastside. You ridin'?
patrick		Eastside?   That's the wrong side. 
malakai		I ain't pressed. I got my own shit.
malakai		What you think? I'ma keep walkin' around waitin' for some chump to cap me? I'ma protect myself.
patrick		That ain't protection. It's an excuse for some unnecessary mayhem.
malakai		Ain't nothin' unnecessary 'bout it. Shit. Mayhem and madness. That's a black man's life.
patrick		How you know? You ain't tried nothing else. Now you sittin' up here strapped for no good reason. You askin' for trouble, Malakai.  You think this shit's funny?
malakai		I think it's funny you think it ain't necessary. You act like you don't know where you are no more, Patrick, and whassup out there for anybody who ain't you. Maybe that's what happens when a white girl goes to your head.
lip		-- Or gives you some.
patrick		Fuck you, Lip.  I know what's out there. I also know you can get past it. But that ain't gonna happen, 'Kai, long as you keep gettin' in your own way.
arvel		 Aw'ight. Y'all said what you had to say. We back to bein' boyz. Patrick. Chill. Have some ribs.
patrick		What's your favorite flower?
sara		I don't have a favorite.
patrick		Yeah, but if you did...
sara		I dunno. Maybe cymbidiums -- orchids. They're sort of show- boaty but they're pretty.
patrick		What's your favorite color?
sara		Agua.
patrick		What's your second favorite color?
sara		Mmm.    Mauve.
patrick		You're makin' this real hard, Sara. Those ain't exactly tuxedo colors.
sara		Nut.   What are you talking about?
patrick		I was tryin' to get around to askin' you somethin' but since I'm some sorta nut, you probably wouldn't wanna go to prom with me...
roy		Patrick -- it is Patrick, isn't it?  Well, I think you were just leavin'.
sara		Why does he have to leave?   We're all adults. Right?
roy		He either leaves or I throw his ass out. Your call, Sara.
patrick		Chill, man. I'm goin'. You don't have to come off with all 'at.
roy		Who the hell are you to tell me how to come off? You're in my house alone with my daughter.
sara		I hate being your daughter.    You ruin everything.
roy		Siddown.  It's a free country, you can hate me. Ain't like that's exactly news. But disrespectin' me, that's where the road ends, Sara. I don't want him up here again. I mean it.
sara		You mean it because he's black.
roy		Don't start that bullshit!
sara		Why's it bullshit? Because you hang with black guys and play jazz and have the hots for Angela Bassett?
roy		Because he was in my house with his hands all over my daughter!
sara		Keep telling yourself that. Just don't expect me to believe it. I saw how you looked at him. But you didn't see him. Well, for your information, he's a straight- A student with more heart and guts than you'll ever have!
roy		Yeah? Well, when are you gonna have the guts to say what you really want to say to me, Sara?
sara		 Want me to say it? You were a piece of shit husband and you're a piece of shit father! You were never there for Mom or for me. You took off and never looked back. So don't talk to me about guts.
roy		Sounds like you have it all figured out.
sara		I have you figured out. You think you can make up all the time you missed, all the things you didn't do? You can't! I'm here because I have to be and it's a goddamned nightmare.
roy		Well, you might as well wake up and get used to it, Sara, because that's the way things are sometimes, the way life is.
sara		How the hell would you know? You've been asleep for the past thirty-seven years!
malakai		The 'Love Boat.'
nikki		Love shit. That bitch is tap- dancin' on my last nerve.
malakai		Looks like she's tap-dancing on your last boyfriend. She got it like that? Naw. Never mind. Stall it. I ain't heard shit.
nikki		Stall what?   What you hear?
malakai		Some trash she's talkin'.   About you.
nikki		About me?
malakai		Yeah. How you ain't all 'at since Patrick's takin' her to the prom.  I am a little bit... chagrined though, Nikki. You lettin' some white ho' show you up like that.
nikki		Fuck you, Malakai. Fuck her too.
malakai		 Ain't no need in fuckin' me... stuck up, bitch... I'm on your side
malakai		Yo. Me and the boyz fixin' to shoot some hoops. Us against Druid Hill. If you interested.
patrick		Druid Hill?   Hell yeah.
malakai		Gotta skip last period.
patrick		I got study hall. Don't matter anyway. Not with those suckers. I'll be back before the bell rings.
female voice		Don't start nothin', won't be nothin'! Stay down, girl!
nikki		 It ain't over, bitch.
sara		Over? I don't even know why it started... bitch. And don't say it's about Patrick because it's not. It's not about him.
nikki		No. It's about you. White girls like you. Creepin' up, takin' our men. The whole world ain't enough. You gotta conquer ours too.
sara		I like him, he likes me. And if you don't like that, screw you.
roy		What the hell happened to you?
sara		I got suspended. Two days.
roy		For what? Fighting?  Why were you fighting, Sara?
sara		 I'm not sure. I think it's some kind of black female thing.
chenille		How's Arvel?
patrick		Pretty bad.  Can't even play a got-damned game of ball no more.
chenille		You see Sara? She alright?  You didn't hear? Nikki jumped off at her in gym. It was fierce...
patrick		Shit!
sara		It's alright.    I'm okay.
sara		Look.  It's not a good time.  I'll see you later... I'm okay.
nikki		Diondre, what your butt doin' here?
diondre		 I can go where I want. You the one on punishment.
diondre		There she go.    Gimme my two dollars.
nikki		Whatever it is, I don't wanna hear it.
patrick		I thought you had somethin' to say to me.
nikki		You thought wrong.
patrick		Somethin' must be on your mind for you to get up in Sara's face, start all this drama. What you tryin' to prove, Nikki?
nikki		You're the one tryin' to prove something. Stuck up in her shit like she's somethin' special.
patrick		What if she is? What's it to you? You didn't see me trippin' off that Howard dude and I could have. I coulda tripped hard, Nikki.
nikki		That was different.
patrick		How you gonna call it different?
nikki		Because she's white and he ain't. And don't sit there like you don't know what I'm talkin' about, Patrick.
patrick		 You don't even know what you're talkin' about, Nikki.
nikki		I don't?     Y'all black men, soon as you even    think about goin' someplace    good, first thing you do is find a    white girl to take with you.
patrick		I thought I was goin' someplace good with you. You the one called me off. But you ain't tryin' to remember that. Now you mad. Why? Because she's white and I like her? I'm with her.
nikki		Please. You're with her because she's white. That's what sets me off.
patrick		 It ain't got no business settin' you off! Me and her ain't got nothin' to do with you and what you think. So keep your hands off her and that shit to yourself.
nikki		I don't think it, I know it. But you go ahead, deny it. That's what y'all always do.
chenille		What? I'm supposed to get excited because you decided to skate by and drop a dollar on the dresser?
kenny		It's more than a dollar. And it's all I got.  I got laid off rom B.W.I., Chenille. I been workin' part- time. Money's tight. You know how you are about money. That's way I haven't been coming around.
chenille		Money ain't got nothin' to do with it, Kenny. You don't come around because you don't feel like comin' around. You don't want the responsibility of comin' around. As long as you out there and I'm in here, you know your son's being taken care of. You ain't got no worries when it comes to him.
kenny		And you don't have no   feelings when it comes to me.    All you do is bitch and complain   about what I don't do. I get sick    of that.
chenille		Be sick of it. You ain't got to see me to see your son.
kenny		I'll be sure to keep that in mind.
sara		Want me to take him?
chenille		That wench. You gotta stand over her to make sure she puts your name on the damn list. Triflin' bitch.
sara		I'll get 'em.
chenille		So your old man flipped about the fight.  Probably thinks it's all Patrick's fault.
sara		No.   I explained about Nikki.
chenille		Right. You put it all on her. None of it's on you.
sara		She started it, Chenille. She wanted to start it. I told you what she said.
chenille		Maybe she didn't have no business gettin' in your face. But she had a reason to say what she said.
sara		So you agree with her? You think I don't belong with Patrick.
chenille		What I think don't matter. But you and him act like it don't bother people that you're together. Like it don't hurt people to see.
sara		 We like each other. What is the big fucking deal? It's him and me. Not us and other 'people.'
chenille		Black people, Sara. Black women.  Patrick's about somethin'. He's smart. He's motivated. He's for real. He ain't gonna make no babies and not take care of 'em or run the streets, fuck up his life. He's gonna do somethin' with himself. Here you come, white and right, and you take one of the few decent men left after jail, drugs and drive-bys. That's what Nikki meant about you up in our world.
sara		There's only one world, Chenille.  I thought we were friends. Guess I was wrong.
malakai		So what you gonna do?
patrick		How many times you gonna ask me that?
malakai		It's payback time. Either you down or you ain't. Either you m'boy or you not. Simple as that.
patrick		Even if I did ride, you ain't got nobody but Lip and Lip will get a nigger's ass killed. Quick.
malakai		Eastside ain't got no firepower. I got some shit, man. AK-47. We go in, get out with one spray down.
snookie		You see us, Patrick?
malakai		 You see us, man? We're rappin'.
snookie		Me and Sara lit it up!      Y-e-o-w!
patrick		That shit ain't funny.
snookie		 Damn right it ain't funny.
malakai		I thought you liked it down there. That's your specialty, ain't it? Crawling?
snookie		That was a reflex action, man. And you just plain rude and wrong to bring the shit up in mixed company.
sara		I gotta get home. Ready?
malakai		No, he ain't ready. He's talkin'. To me. A-B conversation. Gotta go? C yourself the fuck home.
sara		 Fuck you.
patrick		Have you lost your motherfuckin' MIND, man? Huh? Have you!
snookie		Patrick, man, c'mon.
malakai		You take that bitch's back and won't even cover mine?
patrick		'Cause you wrong, Malakai!
malakai		No! You wrong. You BEEN wrong. You ain't worth shit no more.  Get out my face, and take that ho with you.
sara		We should keep going.
patrick		You messed up.
sara		I know I messed up. I'll get it right the next time.
patrick		No. You gonna get it right now so you can do it perfect next time.
sara		I can't work like this.      I can't dance like this.
patrick		Like what?
sara		Like this.     You dictating to me.
patrick		What's wrong, Sara?
sara		Nothing's wrong.  I can't figure things out.
patrick		What things? The audition? You ain't got nothin' to worry about. I told you. I'll be there.
sara		Things, Patrick. Things between us. Things between us and them.
patrick		I didn't know there was a 'them.'
sara		Well, open your pretty brown eyes, look the hell around. 
patrick		They only got a point if you believe they got a point, Sara.
sara		I'm just saying that we should think about this, that's all.
patrick		That's a fuckin' 'nough.
sara		Why are you getting mad?
patrick		Because I like to think for myself, run my own life, and I thought you did too.
sara		You're never gonna run your own life as long as you keep running back to Malakai every time he fucks up or fucks you over.
patrick		First of all, Malakai ain't never fucked me over. Second of all, you don't know him, Sara, what he been through. Matter of fact, you don't know shit about none of it. So don't come off to me like you do.
sara		I know he's lost, Patrick! Everybody but you can see that. And if you keep reaching back for him, you're gonna wind up lost too.
patrick		Who the fuck are you to say he's lost? Malakai had my back when you were busy gee-whizzin' in the woods with your backward-ass, redneck friends.
sara		They weren't rednecks!
patrick		You know what?     The hell with you.
sara		The hell with you too!
sara		Hi.
patrick		Thought you might need this on Saturday. I ain't gonna be able to make it.
toni		Lovers' quarrel? You're better off. That menace to society would've broken your heart and spent all your money in a news flash. Trust me on that, Sara.
sara		Toni, listen carefully. You're a simple bitch and you don't have any friends, black or white, because nobody likes a fucking asshole.
roy		I was wondering... how long you plan on hating me? Maybe I'm an optimist but I hope there's some kind of timetable.  Well, I don't wanna bug you. I just came in to say good luck.
roy		I saw the return address. Got curious. It was open. I read it. I know I shouldn't have but at least now I have an excuse to tell you how proud I am of you, Sara.
sara		 I was gonna tell you about the audition, Roy. I meant to.
roy		Tomorrow's the big day?
sara		Uh-huh.   The big day.
roy		You bummed out about it?  You're a worse liar than I am father.
sara		You're not so bad.  I didn't give you much to work with. It's not like I've been the perfect daughter.
roy		Well, it ain't like I deserve a perfect daughter. I screwed up. Did everything in a hurry and still thought I had all the time in the world. To be in love with your mother. Be a father to you. But time flies. You look up one day and all you got to show for yourself is a pretty little girl who hates your guts and won't talk to you because too much time went by.
sara		I don't hate you. I miss her. I miss Mom...  ... Patrick's pissed at me. I'm pissed at him. He's not coming tomorrow and I want him there and I don't know what to do.
roy		You want him there. I understand that. But whatever he brings to the table, Patrick can't dance for you, Sara. You're the bottom line out there. This is your chance to be the dancer Juilliard came to see.
sara		I wanted somebody there who loves me.
roy		I love you.
malakai		Why his mom's cryin' like that? Arvel's gonna make it, right? That what's his nurse said. She told me herself, 'Your friend's gonna make it.' Did that bitch lie to me! Talk to me, Patrick! Is he gone?
patrick		They just got bad news, man. They don't need to hear it again.  Arvel's fightin'. He's gonna pull through. Thing is, when he does, they don't think... he ain't... shit. Arvel ain't gonna walk again.
malakai		I got a good reason now, man? 
patrick		Malakai...  ... When it's on, I'll be there.
chenille		Why you so quiet?  You know how I go off on folks sometimes. I mean it and then I don't mean it. Like what I said to Sara. Guess she told you.
patrick		 I don't care what you said, Chenille.
chenille		Patrick. Your ass is on your back and your lips are on the ground. You care, baby brother. And not just about what I said.  You seriously like Sara. She got a serious jones for you. Am I lyin'?
patrick		It's besides the point. Whatever point it is you tryin' to make.
chenille		I'm sayin' you can't help who you love, Patrick. At least you found somebody who loves you back.
patrick		I gotta go.
chenille		To where? To who? Malakai?  You ain't through with that fool yet.
patrick		He's not a fool, Chenille.
chenille		No. You know what? You're the fool, Patrick. You think you let Malakai down and all you did was try to pull yourself up. Ain't no blame or shame in that.
patrick		 I still gotta go. Check you later.
kenny		It cut me, what you said.
chenille		 I shouldn't have... I was trippin'.
kenny		You always trip. I'm used to that. Besides, you were right. You were wrong, too. So was I. I need to do better. Ain't no doubt about that.
chenille		I know I come down on you hard about money, but I would rather you spend the time. Seriously.
kenny		 So you don't want any money?
chenille		I didn't say all that.
kenny		I love my son, Chenille.    You know that, don't you?
chenille		Yeah.   I always knew that.
patrick		Pull over.  This ain't helpin' nobody, 'Kai. I'm out. I mean it. Stop the car.
lip		Awww, shit.      Here we go.
malakai		 What you mean you out? You think I'ma let your punk ass bail on me again?
patrick		What you gonna do, 'Kai? You gonna shoot me? Go ahead! You'll have to!
lip		Let him out!   We don't need him.
malakai		Shut the fuck up.
sara		 finishes with a flawless arabesque.      Looks out.
stern judge		You prepared a free-form?
sara		Yes... sir... they have... my music.
judge		Does it have a theme?
sara		Yes.  Emo...  Emotion.
stern judge		Cue Johnson's music.
sara		I'm sorry. I wasn't ready.       Can you start it over again?
stern judge		Are you ready now?
patrick		You can do it.  Ain't nobody watchin' you but me.
sara		I'm ready.
stern judge		Ladies and gentlemen, please!  Young man! Get off the stage.
patrick		All due respect, if ya'll don't let this girl in, you're crazy!
sara		Thank you.   Very much.
stern judge		Ms. Johnson!
stern judge		I can't say this on the record -- yet. But welcome to Juilliard.
****Dialogues from script :Saving_Mr.txt****

diarmuid		Mrs Travers.
diarmuid pamela		You're ready to--? Like pink clouds on sticks.
diarmuid		Excuse me?
pamela		The cherry blossoms
diarmuid		The car should be here, may I use--
diarmuid		You--?
pamela		Mrs Travers.
diarmuid		Mrs Travers, please, why--  Why would you cancel the car?
pamela		I shan't be going. Diarmuid buries his face in his hands.
diarmuid		We've been through this--
pamela		I've changed my mind.
diarmuid		You can't.
pamela		With all due respect Mr Russell I am on very good terms with my own faculty and exceedingly confident in its decision making capabilities. Diarmuid's shoulders visibly sag, he lets out a long frustrated breath.
diarmuid		You made an agreement. Do you understand? A verbal agreement.
pamela		Why in the world are you speaking to me as if I am a neonate?
pamela		He'll what? Sue? He is most welcome to every penny I don't have.
pamela		I know what he's going to do to her- - she'll be cavorting and twinkling! Careening towards a happy ending like a kamikaze--
diarmuid		--We've been trying to do this deal for twenty years! He's agreed to both your stipulations. No animation, script approval-- I--
pamela		Use her to pay my bills? If I believed in a hell I'd be sitting in its waiting room--
pamela		I fired her. Diarmuid shakes his head, sighs.
diarmuid		Polly?
pamela		Of course not Polly! Pamela huffs, digs her heel into the rug.
diarmuid		You have only to go there and work for two weeks. Collaborate. That's it. You haven't signed the rights over, yet.
pamela		Yet!
diarmuid		You must make it work Mrs Travers--
pamela		Oh I must, must I?
diarmuid		You need the money. I don't want you to see you-- .
diarmuid		I am picking up the telephone Mrs
pamela		I have final say?
diarmuid		You do.
diarmuid		You don't sign the papers. He cannot make the film unless you grant the rights.
travers		Excuse me ma'am, have you seen my daughter? I was quite sure I had left her around here somewhere! Ginty giggles.
ginty		No!
travers		Pamela?
ginty		No.
travers		You're right still doesn't sound quite-- I'm sure I have a special name for her--
ginty		Ginty!
travers		Why, thank you ma'am! Ginty it is of course!
ginty		It's me! Travers puts his nose right up to hers, peering into her face.
travers		Gosh! So it is! Well, thank goodness for that! I was positive I was going to be beheaded for losing Her Highness The Royal Princess Ginty Mc Featherfluffy!
ginty		You can't lose me!
travers		Never. I promise. I will never lose you! He swings her up onto his shoulders and gallops off through the park, neighing like a horse.
flight attendant		Can I help you?
pamela		I'm perfectly capable thank you. The flight attendant tries to help anyway.
flight attendant		I'll take it Madam. I can put it up here -
pamela		I don't want it up there. I want it here, in the corresponding holding area for my assigned seat!
flight attendant		The flight's closing in just a few moments Ma'am. I'll have to take it. Pamela narrows her eyes at the attendant as if to say `I dare you.' A woman, with an infant, stands up.
pamela		Jolly good. Pamela gives her a watery smile and takes the seat next to the window, she looks out at the tarmac. She closes her eyes, takes a deep breath, opens her eyes again and tucks her feet tidily together. She folds her hands neatly into her lap and looks straight ahead.
margaret		The carriage?
travers		Who needs a carriage my love? A stroll is a gift!  Everybody ready?
travers		Come along my team! We mustn't miss the train.
margaret		 Thank you so much. For everything.
travers		Walking bus! The family get into line, one behind the other, Travers in the lead.
pamela		Oh does he indeed? She approaches the uniformed driver  who bursts into a beaming smile.
ralph		Travers? P.L. Travers?
pamela		Mrs.
ralph		Welcome, Mrs P.L. Travers! Welcome to the City of Angels. Pamela sneers. He grabs her bags.
pamela		I'm perfectly capable of-- Oh, nevermind. Ralph ushers Pamela through the doors--
ralph		Sun came out to say hello just to you.
pamela		Don't be preposterous. Pamela sniffs the air.
ralph		Jasmine.
pamela		--chlorine and sweat. Ralph chuckles.
ralph		You okay back there Mrs P.L. Travers?
pamela		It's not Mrs P.L. It's just Mrs-- Oh, it's so hot.
ralph		No problemo! We got a brand new air conditioning system, Missus; cool you right down in no time. Just about make you feel like you're in good old Engerland again! Things they can put in cars these days-- (he shakes his head in
porter		Would you like me to unpack for you ma'am?
pamela		Unpack?
porter		To take your items from their cases and hang them in the wardrobe ma'am.
pamela		Young man, if it is your wish to handle ladies garments I suggest you take employment in a launderette. The porter has no idea what to say, he hovers at the door.
travers		A palace! Complete with mighty steed.
ginty		And chickens.
travers		We'll build beautiful memories here my angel. Margaret offers him a trusting smile.
margaret		Yes. Travers takes Ginty and Biddy's hands and they run towards their new home. The chickens scatter.
travers		 --in this house you get to share a bedroom! Margaret looks at the surrounding area, there's simply nothing but barren land and red dust for miles.
underwater		SPLOSH! A green bomb disturbs the tranquil surface and then another SPLOSH! We rise through the water to see Pamela on her balcony throwing the pears, one by one, into the swimmer-free swimming pool.
pamela		Good riddance. She breathes a sigh of relief and closes the balcony doors.
walt		Don't worry! There's nothing wrong with your television set. This is a pixie bell, the sound is much too high for human ears. Tinkerbell flies into shot.
pamela		Off! That's how we deal with you.
ralph		Good morning Mrs!
pamela		It's not Mrs, it's-- Oh, why do I bother? We're just not going to get it right are we?
ralph		Hm?
pamela		Will it be the same driver every day?
ralph		 Yes ma'am! I'm all yours.
pamela		You say it like you're surprised. Like the sun is particular about whom it appears for. It seems you think that I am responsible for it's miraculous dawning every day. For goodness sake, it's California!
ralph		It certainly is! He gestures for her to get in.
pamela		(as much to herself as
ralph		Oh, that's sad.
pamela		Sad is entirely the wrong emotion. I shan't bother explaining why;
ralph		Okey dokey.
pamela		The rain brings life!
ralph		So does the sun.
pamela		Be quiet!
ralph		Yes ma'am. Ralph starts the engine and drives away.
don		Pamela! Good morning!
pamela		It is so discomfiting to hear a perfect stranger use my first name. Mrs Travers. Please. The Sherman's look at each other. Uh oh.
don		I do apologize, Mrs Travers.
pamela		Co-script-writer. I shall certainly be having my say Mr. DiGraydi.
don		Gradi. Wonderful! I welcome it.
pamela		If indeed we ever sign off on a script. Bob and Dick flash each other a look. What the fu ?
don		Uh. Okay, so this is the rest of your team, Dick and Bob Sherman! Music and lyrics.
pamela		Poppins.
don		Who else?
pamela		Mary Poppins. Never ever just Mary.  A pleasure to meet you, though I fear we shan't be acquainted for too long.
bob		Excuse me?
pamela		These books simply do not lend themselves to chirping and prancing. No. Certainly not a musical. Now, where is Mister Disney? I'd very much like to get this started and finished as briskly as is humanly possible.
bob		Don?
dick pamela		Not a music--? If you'll point me in his direction?
don		Uh-- erm. Ha! We had planned a little tour of the studio for you
pamela		No thank you.
don		--Wanted to show the place off.
pamela		No one likes a show off. Pamela takes herself off in the direction of a building.
don		Mrs Trav-- it's a long way to-- Don hurries behind her, Bob looks like he is about to murder the woman and Dick is finding the whole thing incredibly amusing.
pamela		I am perfectly capable of walking. A couple of Disney characters  bounce up to the golf cart, waving brightly. Goofy opens his arms to Pamela for a hug and she recoils in horror.
pamela		 Would you let Mister Disney know I have arrived please? Dolly loses her smile at the terse tone, nods curtly and picks up the phone.
dolly		 She's here!
don		A word of advice Mrs Travers, if I may.
pamela		You may. Whether I heed it or not will be another matter entirely.
don		Wow. Uhm. It's just that he can't stand being called Mr Disney. We are all on a first name basis here.
walt		Well, there ya are at last! Pamela gets up, smooths down her skirt, and makes her way serenely towards the man, who rushes down the corridor to greet her.
pamela		Oh! He squeezes her tight and then lets go. Pamela struggles to compose herself, she hasn't been that close to a man in decades!
walt		Walt, you gotta call me Walt, ya know. `Mister Disney' was my old man. There's a hint of something mournful in the way he says `old man.'
walt		Tommie, say hi to the one and only P L Travers!
tommie		Hi there! It's so nice to-- But Pamela has already been whisked through to Disney's personal office.
walt		Have a seat, sit down. He gestures to a comfy couch in the corner but Pamela takes a seat in front of Walt's desk instead, glancing at the sign above it: We Can Make Them Live. Walt perches on the edge of the desk, close to her, gazing at her.
pamela		That wouldn't be appropriate. He turns a photo of his daughters - Diane and Sharon - to face Pamela.
walt		When Diane here was seven years old I-- can I get you a drink? Coffee? Soda?
pamela		A pot of tea would be most welc--
pamela walt		I do. Twenty years!
pamela walt		Yes. Twenty. So you keep I've been asking, asking,  SAYING-- ASKING--
pamela		What a charming story.
walt		About my getting old?
pamela		About your daughters.
walt		Yeah I suppose it is.  They're both women now. Gosh! Can you believe it?
pamela		Children grow up.
walt		Now Pam, a man can't break a promise to his kids. No matter how long it takes to keep. No matter how long! You might've kept me dangling all this time but now we gotcha!
pamela		Gotcha indeed! Mister Disney, if you have dangled then it is at the end of a rope you have fashioned for yourself.
pamela		I was quite clear when you approached me the first time that she wasn't for sale and clear again when you approached me a year later and clear again when you approached me every annum for the subsequent 18 years. Honestly, I feel corralled, ensnared--
walt		Pam, Pam, the last thing I want is to make you feel--
pamela		My name, if you please, is MRS Travers.
walt		You see, I promised them. That's a fact. You got kids?
pamela		Well, that's very honourable of you
walt		That's what being a daddy is all about right?
walt		This movie isn't just going to make my kids happy. It's going to make ALL kids happy! You see my guys are gonna do things with it that are, well, are revolutionary. He's up again.
walt		Mary Poppins will literally fly off the pages of your books! The door opens and Tommie comes in with the tea, Walt gestures for her to bring it to him.
pamela		Yes, this singing, I am glad you've come to that. (addressing his tea
pamela		No.
walt		No?
pamela		No. She takes a sip, he waits anxiously to see if his tea is any good.
walt		Oh yes she does!
pamela		When?
walt		In your books!
pamela		Those aren't songs! They're recitations. She is not a giddy woman, she does not jig! Singing is frivolous and wholly unnecessary for a governess, an educatress. No. It would just ruin it. Walt is baffled. He takes a sip of tea, it's disgusting, he spits it back into his cup surreptitiously, then coughs loudly. Pamela's jaw drops.
walt		Tell ya what. You just listen to what my Sherman boys have come up with and if they don't knock your socks off then I'm the King of England. Pamela rolls her eyes.
pamela		If you're the King of England then you shan't exist and knowing the little of you I do; I shouldn't think you would like that very much.
walt		Bet you would. She smirks, as does he.
walt		Greensleeves huh?
pamela		Come to think of it. That's a song I wouldn't object to.
walt		Greensleeves.
pamela		Yes. He's not sure if she's playing with him.
walt		Pam, I want you to know that the last thing I would do, the very last thing, is tarnish a story I have cherished. He moves closer to her, takes her hand, she needs it for her teacup, it's awkward.
pamela		Quite right. She extricates her hand.
walt		It's all in the rights agreement. As approved by your agent, Dermot.
pamela		Diarmuid.
walt		Darmitt. Disney hands the rights agreement and a pen to her, Pamela takes it without looking and folds it up.
pamela		 A live action film. No animation.
walt		Live action.
pamela		I'd like that on tape.
walt		Hm?
pamela		Your promise-- and all the discussions we have here-- on tape.
walt		Tape you say. She pops the rights document in her bag. Walt's joviality, his bright demeanour, vanishes in a split second.
pamela		Ah there you are.
walt		I understand. I do.
pamela		Well then! She stands up and smooths down her skirt.
walt		Let's make something wonderful. She leaves his hand hanging in mid air.
pamela		Let's see if that's at all possible. Pamela gets up, smooths down her skirt, snorts at a picture of Disney in a silly hat astride a model train and purposefully strides out of the room, a smile across her face that Disney does not see.
margaret		It's rather late-- Travers continues to play.
travers		Ginty. He kisses her cheek and gently lifts her from his lap.
ginty		Good night father.
margaret		Good night dear. Margaret strokes her hand over Ginty's hair as the little girl slips into the house but hovers unseen by the door, watching her parents. Travers pats his knee and Margaret perches on it.
travers		I'll make us a good life.
margaret		Look at the stars.
pamela		(peering around a vase at
don		We have a whole script to get through. It's gonna be a long day Mrs T. She shoots him dead with a killer stare.
pamela		We could save a starving country with benefaction from this room alone! Ugh, It's so vulgar. She gets up and moves the giant bouquet of flowers off the table and plops it on top of Dick's piano. Bob moves it from the piano to the floor.
pamela		And these are beautiful blooms butchered for our visual and nasal enjoyment when we could have just as easily gone to the window, looked out and gazed upon them happily minding their own business and very much still alive. Bob hasn't a clue what to say. Pamela smoothes down her skirt and re-takes her seat. Everybody waits. Pamela flicks her eyes at the tape recorder which Don duly turns on.
don		Exterior. It means the scene is taking place outside.
pamela		Ah, I see, an abbreviation.
don		No, No, Mrs Travers please go ahead.
pamela		Yes, I do think it's best. I've the most practise. Readings of my books you know? Anyway--
pamela		--Though I do think we should say number 17, instead of just 17, yes? It's proper.
pamela		I will see it. She makes a note in her script and looks to the others who are dumbstruck.
don		Yes.
pamela		Good-- onwards. They are interrupted by DOLLY carrying a new tray of refreshments.
dolly		I'm sorry to interrupt.
pamela		Is this a joke?
dolly		Excuse me?
pamela		Do you think you are a comedienne?
dolly		I'm sorry I don't understand. Dolly gingerly places the tray on the table and hovers, distributing fruit and biscuits within reachable distance.
pamela		Unbelievable. Pamela shakes her head but decides to ignore Dolly and carry on.
dick		We do hope so!
pamela		Hmmm, we'll see about that. He's totally wrong, totally and utterly.
bob		Dick is one of the greats!
pamela		Dick Van Dyke? Robert, my dear, Olivier is one of the greats, Burton, Guinness - greats without question. (speaking loudly into the
don		 Thank you.
dick		Now, how does that sound?
pamela		No no no no no no no. Dolly winces on everyone's behalf and leaves the room.
pamela		Well, un-make it up. Dick quickly hides the next set of sheet music entitled:
pamela		Irresponstable.
travers		Ahhh, there's my girl. The horse moves up to her.
ginty		Why did she do that?!
travers		Because she hated the sound of his laugh.
ginty		Poor Uncle Albert! How can we fix him?
travers		We have to teach the witch how to be happy again.
ginty		How?
travers		I'm not quite sure darling.
their bed		Of the matching of ribbons for bosom and head. Travers sighs, let's the words ring in his ears, touches the end of daughter's nose.
pamela		Nobody walks.
ralph		Beautiful ain't it?
pamela		(refusing him the
ralph		I do.
don		We do find it helps to have a visual. It's fun! She stops in front of a sketch of the Banks house.
pamela		No, no, no. Goodness no.
dick		No?
pamela		The Banks house doesn't look like that! My house is a terraced house with a pink door, white bricked with a crack in the gable. The window frames are lead-lined and the flower boxes grow pink nasturtiums to go with the pink
don		It's all wrong?
pamela		It's too grand! The Banks family - they're normal, everyday sort of people. This isn't normal. It isn't everyday! They're not aristocrats!
dick		Interesting. Don allows a tiny smile. She is right. Pamela lingers over a picture of the parrot head umbrella, a split second of something like recognition on her face and then she simply moves on.
don		Um-- yeah?
pamela		Why in the world have you made Mrs Banks a silly suffragette?
bob		I wonder if Emmeline P would agree with that adjective--
pamela		Quite possibly, looking back. Dick mouths `oh my god!'
don		It does seem strange that Mrs Banks allows her children to spend all of their time with the nanny when she has no job to speak of--
pamela		Are you calling Mrs Banks neglectful?
bob		Yep.
don		No! Of course not! We just felt that if she had a job it would go some way to explaining--
pamela		Being a mother is a job. A very difficult job and one that not everybody is up to, that not everybody should have taken on in the first place! The boys see that Pamela is talking about something meaningful to her and they begin to soften for a brief moment, until--
don		Sybil?
bob		Sure.
pamela		Prudence?
dick		Gwendolyn?
bob		Great.
pamela		Winifred!
don		I could go with Winifred.
pamela		Yes, that's because it's very good. She comes to the next sketch and stops abruptly in front of it, a split second of utter confusion crosses her face.
don		Ahm, yeah, that's him--
pamela		He has a set of moustaches!
don		In the books he--
pamela		I told the illustrator I didn't like the facial hair but she chose to ignore me. This is MY film and this time around I shall have MY way.
dolly		 Mrs Travers, it was a specific request, from Walt. Pamela doesn't acknowledge that Dolly has spoken; Dolly flushes.
pamela		 Why? Everyone shrugs, they don't know why.
bob		Does it mattterrrrrrr?!
don		Bob, Bob, Bob-- Pamela stares at Bob.
pamela		You can wait outside! She points at the door, ordering him out with her finger. Bob is literally stunned. Dick stifles a laugh.
dick		He got shot.
pamela		Hardly surprising. Pamela smiles sweetly.
ginty		Why do you do that?
travers		For you my dear!  Swish! Which kind of kisses do you prefer Gintamina? Swoosh! Scratchy ones or silky ones?
pamela		Swish. And again.
dick		It's something to say when you don't know what to say!
pamela		Well I always know what to say. The slamming of a piano lid. Dolly pushes the door open with her foot.
disney		Hit me with it.
dolly		She has a lot of-- ideas.
disney		Ya? What kind of ideas?
dolly		About how she, uh, sees things.
disney		And just how does she `see' things? Dolly sighs and pulls out a note pad.
walt		Okay that'll work.
dolly		She won't approve Dick Van Dyke. Walt laughs, Dolly allows herself a little giggle too.
walt		I asked for that.
dolly		Yes. They did tell her but she wants to know why.
walt		Because I asked for it.
dolly		Right. Of course. Uh-- the tape measure Mary Poppins uses to record Jane and Micheal's height must be a roll tape, not a ruler, we must add gravi-- gravitas, she says.
disney		Gahd! Anything else?
dolly		She only wants green vegetables and broth, I don't know what that is but she wants it in the room from now on and oh! She doesn't want the colour red in the film-- at all.
pamela		I've simply gone off the colour. Their mouths are agape.
disney		We can't make the film without the colour red! It's set in London for pete's sake.
pamela		And?
disney		There's buses and mail boxes and guards uniforms-- heck! The British flag! Pamela, I'm not sure why
pamela		I understand your predicament Mr Disney, I do. I just-- hm-- I don't know what it is, I'm just suddenly very anti-red. I shan't be wearing it ever again. Disney comes and sits on the table in front of Pam and locks eyes with her.
disney		Is this a test Pam? Are you requiring proof of how badly I wanna make you happy so that we can create this beautiful thing together? Pamela averts her eyes for a split second, embarrassed about `creating something beautiful' with Walt, but quickly recovers and eyeballs him right back.
pamela		I took you at your word Mr Disney and it seems my first stipulation has been denied. There will be many more, so-- perhaps we should just call it quits and I should hand you back these? She takes the rights agreement out of her bag and offers it to him. Disney smiles at Pamela.
disney		Alright. No red in the film. Pamela glances at the tape recorder.
don		What?!
dick		Walt? Don and the Shermans can't believe he has given in! Disney strides out of the room.
bob		He doesn't have the rights-- All three turn their heads to turn to her.
pamela		Quite. Pamela smiles a broad satisfied smile at the boys, smooths down her skirt and opens the script.
dick		Nanny?
don		Yeah, do nanny. Dick begins to play--
bob pamela		No warts! Who in the world put that in?!
witty		very sweet and fairly pretty
bob pamela		And never smell of barley What in the world does water smelling of barley water have to do with anything?
bob		You wrote that in your book! She wrote that in her--!
don		Yeah, I think--
dick pamela		 You can't say that-- If you won't scold and
dick pamela		We won't hide your spectacles  so you cant see Nobody's listening to me!
dick pamela		Put toads in your bed-- Ridiculous!
dick		Hurry, Nanny!
many thanks		Sincerely, Jane and Michael Banks: Jane and Michael Banks.
pamela		Well I simply don't know what to say. That's the worst song I've ever heard.
dick		Alright.
walt		Tommie! Tommie appears in his office with a glass and hands it to Walt.
tommie		Scotch Mist.
walt		What do you think?
tommie		What do I think I-- what?
walt		You're a woman.
tommie		That's a canny observation Walt.
walt		What am I missing?
tommie		You think the female of the species has some kind of psychic insight when it comes to others of her kind? Walt continues to stare out of the window.
barman		Good afternoon Ma'am. What can I fix you?
pamela		A pot of tea.
barman		Sure thing. Pamela looks around at the other women in the bar, all glamorous, coiffured, very different to the practical Mrs Travers. The tea pot arrives.
pamela		Thank you. Tea is a balm for the soul don't you agree? But the barman has already moved on to another patron. Time moves swiftly, the teapot is drained, the customers come and go. The barman talks with another customer further along the bar. Nobody notices Pamela. In this setting she looks like a little old lady, awkwardly perched on a stool, staring into her empty cup.
ginty		Thank you. A bank worker tips his hat to the gentleman.
bank worker		Good afternoon Mr Belhatchett. Cashiers look up from their posts and nod courteously. Ginty and RANDOLPH BELHATCHETT are startled for a second by a loud crash. Their eyes flit to the glass door of Travers' office. The etching on the glass reads:
travers		And Mr Belhatchett has complained that I opened his stupid bank five minutes late has he? Hahaaa!  Time's Money, Goff, y'know! Time's money my man! The clerk laughs nervously.
randolph		I want you gone. All eyes fall upon the little girl whom everyone seems to have forgotten. Travers is overcome with embarrassment and guilt.
travers		Sweet thing! What are you doing here? Ginty looks up at Belhatchett and the manager.
ginty		You said today was--
travers		Ice cream day! Yes! I did! What kind of father am I?
travers		Ah, yes it does seem that--
randolph		If you can't straighten up for your own sake. Do it for your daughter.  Irresponsible. Travers holds out his arms to Ginty and she runs into them.
travers		Ice cream is so rare because it only comes from Siberian cows. Did you know that?!
travers		We share a Celtic soul, you and I. This world is just an illusion, Ginty old girl. As long as we hold that thought dear, they can't break us. Money, money, money. Don't you buy into it Ginty! It'll bite you on the bot! How did we end up here eh? Look at it. Barren. Breathless. Get as far away from this place as possible my love. Find yourself a patch of green.
dick		It's gotta be like a slogan!
bob		Her prescription for life.
dick		Yeah! Yes! A stitch in time!
bob		An apple a day.
don		 Time and tide wait for--
bob		Sugar!
dick		Sugar?
bob		Jeff had vaccination day at school yesterday.
dick		Ouch.
bob		No ouch.
dick		No ouch?
bob		Sugar. They put it in a cube.
dick		Medicine in sugar?
bob		Cube's an odd word.
walt		May I walk with you?
pamela		I'm sure your country doesn't have any laws about sharing a pavement. As they walk the sound of the piano filters out of the rehearsal room window and down onto the lot.
bob		Go back to the chorus.
bob		Wait! WAIT! She always does what's unexpected. She goes UP the bannisters. Dick is confused.
dick		Yes! The sound of Walt's cough signals his imminent arrival.
don		Man is in the forest. Pamela and Walt enter the room.
dick		It's just a chorus--
bob		Tell us what you think. He knows dum dum Will help dum dum dum duuuum! Bob whistles what will end up being the Robin's part of the song.
bob		We'll work out the other lyrics.
dick		You see how it goes up on the word down?
bob		On the word down it goes up!
don		It's ironic.
pamela		Is it?
walt		Forget ironic, it's iconic. Pamela rolls her eyes.
walt		I won't be able to stop singing that for weeks!
pamela		It seems enormously patronising to me. The very sort of annoying tune you would have playing in your themed park I daresay. All giddy and carefree, encouraging children to face the world unarmed. All they need is a spoon and some sugar and a brain full of fluff and they're equipped with life's tools. Wonderful! Dick is completely deflated.
walt		What's your point Pam?
pamela		MRS Travers! My point is that, unlike yourself, Mary Poppins is the very enemy of sentiment and whimsy. She is truthful, she doesn't sugar coat the darkness in the world that these children will eventually come to know. She prepares them for it, she deals in honesty. One must clean one's room; it won't magically do it itself! She waves the script in the air.
walt		No whimsy or sentiment says the woman who sends a flying nanny with a talking umbrella to save the children.
pamela		You think Mary Poppins is saving the children Mr Disney? Pamela sighs, shakes her head.
margaret		There there. Shush shush now-- Ginty and Biddy run in and out of the sheets, chasing a large hen that squawks and flaps its wings trying to escape the girls.
ginty		Father! She runs at him and swings her high into the air with one arm, catching Biddy with the other.
margaret		What a lovely surprise! Did you finish early?
travers		I couldn't stop thinking about my beautiful girls on this beautiful day in this beautiful place and I thought to hell with it!  And what do we say about beauty ladies?
travers		Buts are for goats my love! He dips her and smooches her.
travers		 I'll put in extra hours tomorrow.
ginty		The hen got out and we've been trying to catch her! Travers spies the clucking demon.
travers		That's no hen! That's Aunt Ellie, your mother's horrendiferous sister!
biddy		Really?!
ginty		Not the aunt!
margaret		Oh!
travers		I'll wash them again my love! Margaret look at the dirty sheets and shrugs. The kids run after their father squealing and giggling as the poor little hen runs for its life. Even the dog joins in, Margaret goes to retrieve the discarded jacket and sees a whisky bottle protruding from the inside pocket, she slips it back inside - out of sight, out of mind.
ginty		Aunt Ellie!
travers		Oh she's a foul fowl!
margaret		--darling, it's just that um-- a
travers		--Meg sweet, I had a throat scratch-
margaret		--the bank is getting you down again? Perhaps my sister--
travers		God no! No. I can endure. I will endure. For the girl's sake-- Just, please-- not Ellie.
margaret		Oh my dear-- Travers weeps and Ginty closes her eyes, buries her little face in the hens feathers.
dick		All around the cathedral the saints and apostles look down as she sells her wares Walt is dragged from his thoughts and gets up to follow the sound.
dick		Though her words are simple and few listen, listen, she's calling to
walt		That'll work. Dick nods, still playing. Walt makes his way to the piano, sighs, sits next to Dick on the stool.
dick		A man has dreams of walking with
giants		To carve his niche in the edifice
exemplary		Then came this person, with chaos in her wake And now my life's ambitions go with one fell blow It's quite a bitter pill to take.
walt		Inspired by someone we know?
walt		She won't.
dick		You don't know that.
walt		I do. I know it, I know it only too well.
travers		Ahh the Countess Mary Sparklestick! Pray tell me, what are you concentrating so hard on?
ginty		I am laying eggs!
travers		Really!? Fabulous!
ginty		Today I am a hen.
travers		Indeed! I can see the feathers sprouting as we speak! Margaret steps out onto the veranda, takes one look at her husband and knows he is drunk.
margaret		Helen Goff, would you lay the table for supper please?
ginty		I'm not Helen!
margaret		I need-- 
travers		She's laying!
margaret		(her face contorts in
travers		(urgent, his voice
ginty		I want to be like you.
travers		Don't.
ralph		Ya alright Mrs? Pamela doesn't even hear him.
mrs corry		Helen Goff? Wake up dear. You want your banner to be ready for the fair don't you? Ginty turns back to her painting - her banner reads:
allora fair		Around the words Ginty is painting a gorgeous carousel with stunning horses, one of which is white with roses on its bridal.
biddy		Mrs Brill said Father's presenting the medals.
margaret		 He is indeed! On behalf of the bank.
don		Mrs Travers? Again, she doesn't hear.
dick		(singing more sotto than
travers		 Mr Belhatchett. Randolph looks at Travers, then at Travers shaking hands, his family nod and move on. Margaret looks upset by this.
margaret		Travers, Biddy's stomach--
travers		Oh, for Gods' sake, Meg, stop whinnying like an old nag will you? Margaret is aghast at being spoken to like that in public but she keep her mouth shut. Ginty notices Travers eyes stray towards the refreshments tent.
travers		Meet you there in a blink of an eye!
travers		Indeed, a published poet-- She takes a deep breath and moves forward, grabs Travers hand.
ginty		Father, come and look. Biddy's dancing.
travers		In a moment, my princess. I'm talking.
ginty		But she's-- she really wants you to watch, Dad. You'll miss it.
travers		Not now Biddy!
ginty		I'm Ginty.
travers		Ginty! Shoo! Devastated, Ginty doesn't know what to do, she pulls at his shirt sleeve again.
ginty		You said don't give up. A waiter approaches and takes her by the arm, leading her away.
waiter		Excuse me, Miss. It's gentlemen only in this section of the tent. I think you'll be more comfortable at the far end.
travers		Good afternoon, distinguished guests, our biggest supporter Mr Randolph Belhatchett and his lovely wife, ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls! Randolph looks at Travers with displeasure and then at one of the bank staff.
randolph		Why is he speaking for the bank?
bank worker		He's the manager.
travers		I'm honoured to be here on behalf of the Belhatchett Bank of Australia. Shortly, it will be my very pleasant duty to present the awards to our young performers. But before I begin, I'd like to say a very few words to our very youngest citizens about the role of the - er, the Bank in our community. Ginty allows herself to breathe. So far, so good.
margaret		He's using too many `verys'. He always says `very' too much when
don		 Very well, my boy, give me the
dick		When you deposit tuppence in a bank account,
trust deeds		Think of the foreclosures! Bonds! Chattels! Dividends! Shares!
travers		Bankruptcies! Debtor sales! Opportunities! All manner of private enterprise! Shipyards! The Mercantile! Collieries! Tanneries! Incorporations! Amalgamations! Banks!
don		 While stand the banks of England. England stands!
travers		Uhmm. Thank you kindly. Thanking you. Now-- what, what am I doing next? Oh! It's a marvellous idea to encourage children to open accounts. My daughter, the Princess Ginty-- she's-- uh.  How old are you? Come up here. Ginty - what? Me? Ginty glances to her mother and then, on trembling legs, makes her way forward and up the stairs onto the dais. Margaret watches, growing uneasy.
don		I love it!
dick		You think Walt's gonna like it? Pamela takes a last look at the Mr Banks picture and spins around viciously.
pamela		Why did you have to make him so cruel? The boys jubilance is halted immediately.
don		Who are we talking about? I'm confused.
pamela		You all have children yes?
don		Yes.
dick bob		Yep. Yes.
pamela		And do those children write you letters, make drawings for you?
don		Of course.
dick		Mine like to make folded paper--
pamela		 And would you tear up those gifts? In front of them?! Silence. They know where this is going.
travers		I don't suppose there's any more you can give me for the pain? The doctor shakes his head at Travers wanton greed for more.
doctor		 When will enough be enough Travers?
ginty		I've brought you something father.
travers		Be a darling Ginty my old pal! Help father out won't you? Ginty is wary.
ginty		Mother took it away. Travers slams his fist on the bed, scaring Ginty.
travers		Godammit! Nervous, hopeful, Ginty withdraws a folded sheet of paper from her pocket.
ginty		I wrote a poem for you. It - it won first prize, at school. Travers takes the page, tries to hold it steady in his shaking hand.
travers		It's hardly Yeats, is it? Ginty is devastated. But more than this there's a hardening in her small face, a sense of disillusionment that so far she's held in check. Here are the first signs of the Pamela to come.
don		Mrs Travers! He stops, recognizing she doesn't need to be followed.
ralph		Mrs? Pamela looks up, her eyes are red rimmed but she's not crying.
pamela		It's blasphemy to drink tea from a paper cup. Ralph, shifts nervously from foot to foot. He's not quite sure what to say to her or why he brought the tea. Pamela puts the tea down and continues to fiddle with bits and pieces of twig and bloom that she's plucking from the area around her.
ralph		Everything okay Ma'am? Would you like me to drive you home?
pamela		All the way to England? Yes, please. Ralph lowers himself onto his haunches.
ralph		You got family back there Mrs?
pamela		You're an impertinent man you know? You ask an awful lot of questions that have no relevance to you being able to carry out your duties.
pamela		And you have no barometer. Ralph is confused.
pamela		Make a little furrow, there. Ralph dutifully does as he's told, looking over his shoulder for fear of being caught digging holes in Disney soil. Ralph pokes the ground, thinking.
ralph		I gotta kid.
pamela		Well, most people do.
ralph		Jane-- she's got all kinds of troubles. Pamela raises an eyebrow.
pamela		Now look. She takes the lid, twigs now sticking out of the poked holes and places it in the centre of what we now see is one of Pamela's tiny parks, she gently rest a leaf on the twig struts forming a roof.
ralph		A river!
ralph		Lake.
pamela		Wouldn't that be nice?
ginty		Mother?
margaret		I want you to take care of the children. Ginty is groggy, she doesn't understand.
ginty		What? Margaret leaves the room and Ginty is straight out of bed following her. Behind, in the room, Moya has awoken and is crying.
ginty		Mother! She runs out into the yard but stops as she hears Biddy.
biddy		Where's ma?
ginty		Once upon a time there were three little girls alone in a house. They were frightened of the big wide world just outside the door. She takes them through the hallway, stopping momentarily outside the door to her fathers bedroom. It is slightly ajar and he looks incredibly frail and delirious.
ginty		And who do you think those sparkling messengers sent? Who was it that came flying through the starry, starry sky to carry us up to see them? Ginty wraps Moya in a blanket and puts her in Biddy's arms.
biddy		An elf?
ginty		Their old Uncle Albert of course!  Stay right here, be good-- Ginty climbs atop the horse.
biddy		Are you going to the sky?
ginty		I'm going to find the end of the story so I can bring it back for you!
biddy		Is it happy?
margaret		Sometimes a person we love, through no fault of his own, can't see past the end of his nose.
ginty		It's time to go home, ma. She reaches out her hand--
walt		 Pam!
walt		Callin' to check up on you.
pamela		Are you a doctor?
walt		Hm?
pamela		Check ups are for medical practitioners no?
walt		Pam, are you always so battle ready? P.L. Travers in her breast plate and chain mail, sword up in the air and off with your head!
pamela		What can I do for you Mister Disney?
walt		Please, I beg of you, please please call me Walt.
pamela		Walt-- er.
walt		I heard things didn't go so well today.
pamela		They went as well as they've gone every other day that I've been here. I don't recall `special' phone calls from you on any of those other evenings.
walt		What's this all about Pam? Really? Silence.
pamela		Ha!
walt		Aren't you wondering that too? Silence.
pamela		I cannot tell you how uninterested, no, positively sickened I am at the thought of going to see your dollar printing machine Mr-- Walter. She notices Mickey's innocent eyes staring at her and gently turns his face away.
walt		Oh come on! When does anybody get to go to Disneyland with Walt Disney himself?!
pamela		Disappointments are to the soul what the thunderstorm is to the air. Walt slams the phone down. Pamela stares at it in shock!
walt		I'm not a violent man Tommie but if Mrs P.L. Travers were to get hit by a large truck I-- (he doesn't allow himself
walt		Okay boys. We gotta fix this.
travers		The Aunt.
ellie		Now, I've brought every new fangled treatment available in Sydney. Biddy is open mouthed.
margaret		They've been so worried-- I've--
ellie		Do stop babbling nonsense! I'm here now and I shall fix everything.
pamela		Where are we--? This isn't the way.
ralph		Change of venue this morning apparently.
pamela		(realizing where she's
ralph		I was thinking about our-- tea party?
pamela		I'm sure I don't know what you're--
pamela		Little park? I haven't a clue what you're talking about.
pamela		Concentrate on the road. Always chitter chattering!
ralph		Oh! Isn't that nice? Holy mackerel! Wowzers. Never met him myself but there he is! Right there. Real. Living, breathing. Oh boy!
walt		Welcome to the Magic Kingdom! Pamela steps out of the car and her eyes nearly pop out of her head with brightness of the place, unbelievable colour and excitement.
pamela		Is it all like this? Pamela pops a headache pill.
walt		Yup! Isn't it wonderful? Ralph hovers at the car, filling his eyeballs with as much Walt Disney as he can get before he has to drive away.
pamela		Do you always get everything you want Walter?
walt		Pretty much!
pamela		With the exception to the rights to my books of course!
walt		War ain't over yet Pam! Walt takes Pamela by the arm and leads her through the gates and a murmur goes through the crowds as they gawp. A YOUNG WOMAN breaks free and rushes up to Walt.
young woman		I love you so much! Can I--? She proffers a pen and paper but Walt is prepared, he takes a signed postcard with his face on it from his top pocket and hands it to the woman.
walt		In Adventureland there is a tree-- this is a fun fact. A titbit.
pamela		Tidbit.
pamela		Gosh.
walt		And they said only God could make a tree! Pamela rolls her eyes. There is a protracted silence as they walk, both encompassed by their own thoughts. The sunshine, the joyful crowds just background colour. They pass by a store front and Walt glances up at the window. It reads: Elias Disney Contractor Est. 1895. Pamela notices the look but doesn't say anything.
pamela		Who?
walt		I think you know who.
pamela		She flew in through the window one day.
walt		Through the window huh? Pamela nods curtly.
walt		Mrs Travers, I would be honoured if you would ride Jingles. She's Mrs Disney's favourite horse. He escorts Pamela to a beautiful white horse, roses on it's bridal.
pamela		No thank you. I'm happy to watch.
walt		No greater joy than that seen through the eyes of a child. Pamela looks at the children climbing onto the carousel.
pamela		Maybe in you Mister Disney, but certainly not I.
walt		Get on the horse Pamela! Pamela sighs and allows Walt to help her onto the horse.
pamela		I said what?
walt		Mary Poppins, the Banks's, they're family.
pamela		You brought me all the way out here to tell me that?
walt		No. I brought you all the way out here for monetary gain. Had a wager with the boys that I couldn't get you on a ride. I win! He clambers onto his own horse, gestures to the ride controller and off they go! Pamela gently bobs up and down, Walt waves to her and she sees the unbridled thrill from the child in Mister Disney spilling out. The tiniest, tiniest of smiles threatens to surface on her lips as he points a finger in the air as if shooting for the stars.
ellie		Well begun, is half done! His face softens as his hazy gaze falls upon Ginty, outside the window, sweeping. Their eyes meet for a brief moment, an unspoken understanding of what is to come, before his close with tiredness.
don		Good morning Mrs Travers! She looks at the new arrangement of the room.
pamela		What horrors have you in store for my beautiful characters today, hm? Bob clenches a fist but Dick gives him a look that says: keep calm.
don		Now, Mrs Travers you sit here. He ushers her to a chair facing the centre of the room. He hands pages to Bob and pages to Dolly. Don and Dolly drop to their knees so that they are half the height of Bob. Pamela raises an eyebrow.
soaring		Up through the atmosphere Up where the air is clear Oh let's go fly a kite Don notices Pamela's foot tapping, he stands up.
don		And then Mrs Banks goes to fetch her suffragettes ribbon.
dolly		 "A proper kite needs a proper tail don't you think?!" Don drops to his knees again.
soaring		Don bows to Pamela puts his hand out to her and to his surprise, she accepts and they begin to waltz. Pamela is surprisingly elegant and accomplished.
dick		When you send it flying up there All at once you're lighter than air Dolly breaks away and rushes from the room.
dolly		Mr Disney! Walt! Walt spins around.
soaring		Up through the atmosphere Up where the air is clear Oh let's go fly a kite! They all collapse in a heap, exhausted and thrilled.
pamela		Well.
bob		Well?
pamela		Yes! He fixes the kite! Oh, I love it! Dick punches the air.
bob		Did we get that on tape? Everybody sighs with relief and Pamela looks to the caricature of Mr Banks with deep warmth.
travers		Look at you-- all ship shape. Travers reaches up a shaking hand and musses up Ginty's perfectly plaited hair.
ginty		I re-wrote the poem father. Travers doesn't respond. Ginty reaches into her pocket, takes out tuppence.
pamela		Father?
pamela		Do you know you're quite right? It is beautiful. Exquisite.
ralph		It's always new.
pamela		As you wish. Pamela is genuinely curious.
bob		Are you serious?
pamela		I've heard about his implausibly leaved trees so I assume he does have some insane penguin wrangling scheme but it does seem rather far fetched. Can you train penguins?
pamela		Sorry?
don		Dick.
dick		Cartoons. He draws a little squiggle in the air to illustrate his point.
don		Dick. Pamela's face turns beetroot red, she pushes herself away from the table and storms out of the room, slamming the door behind her.
dick		What? Are we getting real penguins?
dolly		Good afternoon Mrs Travers!
pamela		Where is Mister Disney?
dolly		If you'd like to take a seat--
pamela		I would not like to take a seat thank you. I would like to-- She heads for Disney's office and Dolly is up and running after her down the corridor.
dolly		Mrs Travers, please! Pamela blows past Tommie's desk.
tommie		Walt, I'm so sorry.
walt		Don't worry Tommie, please close the door. Disney gestures to his cigarette.
pamela		I shall not sit in the seat of a trickster! A fraudster! A sneak!
walt		Mrs Travers, what in the world has upset you so?
pamela		Penguins! Walt is confused.
walt		It's a sequence--
pamela		You promised me. You promised me that this film would not be an animation!
walt		And it isn't!
pamela		So they're real penguins?
walt		No they're animated.
walt		Pam! Pamela! Mrs Travers! Wait!
pamela		Please call my driver and have him pick me up.
dolly		Yes ma'am, when?
walt		Please Mrs Travers-- You must listen.
pamela		You shouldn't make promises you can't keep, especially to children, they hold on to them you see? And those promises they just sit there inside of them, like little doses of poison, all those broken promises, eating away forever.
walt		Pamela? I don't understand why this is so hard for you. Please, make me
pamela		The books weren't written for the children. They were written for the promise breakers.
walt		The promise breakers? Mrs Travers I-
ralph		Woah! Mister Disney!
walt		Hi.
ralph		Hi! I'm such a huge fan. It's such an honour to-- He suddenly sees that Pamela is more deeply entrenched in herself than usual and his priority becomes her.
pamela		Yes. Thank you.
walt		You must reconsider. You must.
pamela		I simply can't give her up. Not yet. Perhaps not ever. I don't know
disney		You do know why!
pamela		I can't, he's--
disney		He's?
pamela		I just-- Goodbye Mr Disney. She goes to get in the car and Disney puts a hand to stop her but Ralph blocks it.
ralph		The lady's ready to go now sir. Walt steps away and Ralph closes the door to the car.
walt		He's? Walt watches the car disappear, wracked with frustration and confusion. He takes a seat on Pamela's bench and wraps his arms around himself and looks to the sky.
ralph		It's been a pleasure driving you Mrs.
pamela		No one likes a fibber.
pamela		You found out?
ralph		I was telling my daughter all about my day and how I was driving this nice writer lady, Mrs Travers for Mr Disney and--
pamela		Would you like me to sign it?
pamela		I'd be honoured. Ralph hands her his pen and she begins to write.
ralph		Jane.
pamela		Really?
ralph		Uh huh. Like the girl in the book.
pamela		 I've just this instant realized I don't know your name.
ralph		Ralph. She shakes his hand.
pamela		Pamela.
ralph		Pamela.
pamela		You're the only American I have ever liked, Ralph. Ralph is chuffed to bits.
ralph		May I ask why?
pamela		No. Now take this-- She hands him the piece of Beverly Hills Hotel stationery with her notes on.
pamela		They all had difficulties. Jane can do anything that anyone else can do, do you understand? Ralph looks at her in awe.
ralph		Walt Disney!
pamela		Deficiencies in concentration and hyperactive behavior. Explains everything! Pamela turns to leave.
ralph		Thank you Mrs. Pamela doesn't look back.
walt		She's gone? Tommie looks down at her paperwork and nods at Walt apologetically.
tommie		Flight left 10 minutes ago. Tommie hands him the itinerary, he glares at it.
walt		(expecting to read her
tommie		Her. That's her real name. Walt is confused.
dolly		Yuh, didn't you know? She's all hoity toity. British this and British that and she's really an Aussie called Helen Goff. Stuck up--
walt		Then who's Travers? Tommie and Dolly look at each other and shrug.
ginty		I want to see my father.
margaret		No, you mustn't.
ginty		I want to see him! Suddenly she turns into a wildcat - lashing, thrashing, biting, screaming. Nothing will stop her seeing Travers.
aunt ellie		Let her go Margaret. Margaret is forced to let go and Ginty runs for her father's bedroom.
ginty		I dropped the pears. She perches on the edge of the bed and takes his hand.
pamela		Hello house.
pamela		Oh dear god! Standing on the doorstep is Walt Disney. Pamela is, quite literally, speechless.
walt		It was one heck of a job getting a seat on the very next flight, let me tell you.
pamela		But, you always get what you want eventually. Isn't that right Walter? He looks down at her hand clenched into a fist and shaking.
walt		How about you show me how to make one of those nice English pots of tea?
pamela		Milk. The milk goes in first. He attends to it.
walt		I remember.
pamela		And whiskey. I'll have whiskey in mine. Disney follows her gesture to the whiskey decanter. She takes it from him and pours a generous slug into her teacup.
pamela		You've come to change my mind. To beat me into submission.
walt		No, I've come because you misjudge me.
pamela		How do I misjudge you?
walt		You look at me and you see some kind of Hollywood King Midas.
pamela		And don't you?
walt		If that was all it was would I have pursued an cranky, stubborn dame like you for twenty years? I'd've have saved myself an ulcer!
pamela		Mary Poppins isn't real.
walt		Oh, no, that's not true. She's real as can be to my daughter's and to thousands of other children-- adults too. She's been there as a nighttime comfort to a heck of a lot of people.
pamela		Well, Where is she when I need her? Hm? I open the door to Mary Poppins and who should be standing there but Walt Disney! He laughs.
walt		Mrs Travers, I am so sorry. I hoped this would be a magical experience for you, for all of us. But I let you down-- and in doing so, I've broken a twenty year old promise to my girls.
pamela		Ah! Not true then that Disney created man in his own image?
walt		But it is true that you created yourself in someone else's yes? She doesn't answer. Walt takes mouthful of laced tea and coughs a little.
pamela		Can't say I do and as I have no plans to ever set foot on American soil again I'm afraid I never will.
walt		It's mighty cold there in the winters. Bitter. Walt stops talking, catches himself, looks away and then gives in. His enthusiasm completely disappears and he's suddenly as ragged and as weary as Pamela.
pamela		I don't know what you think you know about me Walter--
walt		You must've loved and admired him a lot to take his name--
walt		Mrs. Travers. It's all about him isn't it? All of this. Everything. Pamela looks at her hands, they're shaking.
pamela		I don't need to forgive my father. He was a wonderful man.
walt		No, you need to forgive Helen Goff. Life is a harsh sentence to lay down for yourself. Pamela looks down at the table top.
pamela		Enough.
tommie		Walt. She hands him a sheet of paper.
walt		Is that everyone?
tommie		Not everyone. She looks at Walt questioningly.
tommie		Okay. Walt walks away, he's lost a bit of steam. Tommy watches him go.
pamela		I should say so too. The doorbell sounds, voices. Pamela begins to tap again.
pamela		For goodness sake! She rises from her chair, smoothes down her skirt and makes her way to the front door.
diarmuid		I am so pleased to hear that Mrs Travers.
pamela		I should think you'll have a draft very soon.
polly		You're perfectly capable of doing it yourself. Polly leaves, Pamela rolls her eyes.
pamela		She's quite the worst maid I've ever had!
diarmuid		So why do you keep her?
pamela		I don't know-- she reminds me of me. Diarmuid laughs.
diarmuid		Do you have a title?
pamela		Mary Poppins in the Kitchen.
diarmuid		Wonderful. Should we start talking about the film rights? Pamela narrows her eyes at him.
pamela		NEVER again.
diarmuid		Okay.
pamela		Oh, I'm not going.
diarmuid		Why not?
pamela		Hollywood premieres are not for old trout like me. Anyway, it's not
diarmuid		He hasn't invited you, has he? Pamela doesn't reply.
flight attendant		Can I help you?
pamela		I'm perfectly capable thank you. The flight attendant recognizes her with something akin to horror.
flight attendant		Suit yourself-- ma'am.
walt		Morning Dolly. Dolly opens her mouth to speak but he's already past and
tommie's desk		Tommie sits, arms crossed and stares, half bemused at Walt.
pamela		Me again!
walt		Mrs Travers! How wonderful to see you. What brings you to--
pamela		I'm here for my premiere.
walt		Great!
pamela		I didn't receive my invitation, but I just assumed the American postal service had fallen down on the job as per usual. She smiles sweetly.
walt		I'll have a-- uh, replacement sent to your hotel right away.
pamela		That's very kind, Mr Disney. I knew you wouldn't have forgotten me.
walt		Pam, how could I?
pamela		How indeed? You did, after all, assure me that I wouldn't be disappointed.
doorman		Absolutely. The doorman goes to find her a cab and in his absence a limo pulls up to the kerb. Pamela doesn't dare get her hopes up but the door swings open and there he is, her favorite person in America.
ralph		Had a feeling a certain friend of mine might be needing me tonight.
pamela		Ralph! She rushes to him and they give each other a friendly hug.
ralph		You look like a million bucks! Let's get you to the ball. He opens the back door for her and she climbs in.
ralph		 This is your night. None of this would be possible without you. She brings her arm down, straightens her dress and breaks into a smile, making her way down the carpet to frantic whispers amongst the press and autograph hunters of: "Who is that?" "Is that anyone?" Pamela spots Walt, Dick Van Dyke and Julie Andrews being interviewed together up ahead. Mickey Mouse bounces down the carpet and slows-- he and Pamela lock eyes for a brief moment. He holds out his gloved hand, she takes it and together they watch as a huge toy train chugs to a halt on the blvd and hundreds upon hundreds of coloured balloons fly out of it's roof and into the air.
bert		You know, begging your pardon, but the one my heart goes out to is your father. The carousel horses at the Allora fair--
jane		Father in a cage? Ginty pressing the final bottle into her father's hand--
bert		They makes cages in all sizes and shapes, you know. The image of the dead Travers in his bloodstained bed--
micheal		You won't ever leave us will you?
jane		Whatever would we do without you?
mary poppins		I shall stay until the wind changes. And then an image from the film: George Banks walks away from us down the misty tree-lined London street, on his way to be fired from the bank. Walt Disney watches with quiet satisfaction. Pamela however has tears coursing down her face. Her shoulders heave as she tries desperately not to sob out loud but people are noticing, looking at her. Disney leans forward, placing a hand on her shoulder. She reaches up and grips it tightly, unable to speak.
walt		It's all right, Mrs Travers. It's alright. Mr Banks is going to be all right. I promise. Pamela nods in gratitude, but cannot contain her sobs. It's all pouring from her now, in one immense catharsis.
pamela		No, no. It's just that-- I can't, I can't abide cartoons! We stay on her face as we bring up the final song of the film: Let's Go Fly A Kite. The audience around her are smiling, laughing, singing along. Pamela, the tears, silent now, still pouring down her cheeks as she slowly begins to mouth along with the lyrics. And in her head one final image appears. Travers gaze falls upon Ginty, outside his bedroom window, sweeping. Their eyes meet for a brief moment, an unspoken understanding of what is to come, before his close with tiredness.
travers		--Like something is brewing, about to begin-- And further and further--
****Dialogues from script :Saving_Private_Ryan.txt****

offshore		SUPERIMPOSITION:
the cliffs		At the far end of the beach, a ninety- foot cliff.  Topped by bunkers. Ringed by fortified machine gun nests. A clear line-of-fire down the entire beach.
a figure		Pushes through the men.  Puts himself in front of DeLancey.
miller		Looks over the gunwale at THE HELL IN FRONT OF THEM.
miller		Somehow survives.  Jumps into the breakers.
miller		MOVE, GODDAMN IT!  GO!  GO!  GO!
explosions everywhere		THE GERMANS On the edge of the cliff. Rain down MACHINE GUN FIRE and GRENADES.
the americans		Struggle through the surf.  FIRING up as best they can.  Making for the base of the cliffs.
miller		Ignores the EXPLOSIONS and BULLETS. Uses hand signals and curt orders.
miller		THERE!  THERE!  HOOKS THERE!  FIRE SQUAD, THOSE ROCKS!
the men		Obey instantly.  Set the grappling hooks.  Take position.  Return fire.
the men		Know what they have to do.  Start up the ropes.  Into the teeth of the German defenders.
miller		Back-straps his Thompson sub-machine gun.  Starts climbing with the first group.
miller		Joins half-a-dozen pinned down men. Others bottleneck behind them.  Miller scans the route and the defenders.
miller		That's the route.
miller		Go!
miller		It's the only way.
miller		Turns to the next half-dozen men.
miller		YOU'RE NEXT!
miller		JACKSON, PICK OFF A FEW OF THEM, WILL YOU?
jackson		 You betcha, Captain.
miller		GO!
miller		Turns, looking for the next six. His eyes fall on Sarge and REIBEN who is a cynical, sharp, New Yorker. Reiben smiles.
reiben		 Captain, can I put in for a transfer?
miller		Sure, meet me at the top, we'll start the paperwork.
miller		GO!
sarge		Rolls his eyes, takes a breath. Scrambles into the gap.  The other five right behind.
reiben		I'll be Goddamned!  I'm not dead!
sarge		CAPTAIN, IF YOUR MOTHER SAW YOU DO THAT, SHE'D BE VERY UPSET!
miller		I THOUGHT YOU WERE MY MOTHER.
miller		Crosses the gap.  His men follow.
miller		Okay, Wade, your turn.
sarge		What the hell were you doing?  Drawing fire!
miller		Worked, didn't it?
sarge		You tryin' to get yourself killed?
miller		Don't need to, the Krauts go that covered.
a clerk		Older than the others, sad-eyed, adds a sheet of paper to a large pile in his out-box.
close shot		An outgoing telegram.  It reads: "We regret to inform you...killed in action...heroic service..."  This is the paperwork of death.
the clerk		Pulls out a file.  Reads.  Finds something troubling.  Quickly shuffles through some other papers.  Finds what he's looking for.  Rises from his desk and hurries out of the office.
margaret ryan		Steps out.  Around sixty.  Her face shows the lines of a life of hard work and mother hood.  A good woman.
general marshall		 Goddamn it.
general marshall		Any contact with the fourth brother, James?
general marshall		Well, if he's alive, we're going to send someone to get him the hell out of there.  That's just what the General's staff wanted to hear.
miller		Trailed by a RADIOMAN, dashes through the fire and dives into a sludge- filled crater.  He surfaces, sees Sarge and Reiben, and reels from a horrific smell.  Their conversation is repeatedly broken by FIRING And DUCKING GERMAN FIRE.
miller		Jesus Christ!  What the hell are we swimming in?
reiben		Shit, sir.
sarge		Fertilizer, Captain, I think we're in a cranberry bog.
reiben		Out of the frying pan, into the fucking latrine.
miller		Look at the bright side, the Krauts sure as hell don't want to advance and hold this cesspool.
miller		Get Fire Control, we need some artillery...
reiben		Sir, what if they send some other company into Caen ahead of us while we're pinned down here?
miller		Don't worry, we're the only Rangers this side of the continent, we've got to be first into Caen.
sarge		Who cares?
reiben		I care.  Don't you know what Caen's famous for, Sarge?
sarge		Frogs?
reiben		Lingerie.
sarge		Yeah?  So?
reiben		So, you ever heard of employee discounts?  My uncle sells shoes, gets twenty-five percent off everything in the line, got a closet filled with the best looking shoes you ever seen.
reiben		Just picture some French number been spending all day, every day, making cream-colored, shear-body negligees with gentle-lift silk cups and gathered empire waists, what the hell you think she wears at night?
miller		Reiben, how the hell do you know so much about lingerie?
reiben		Lingerie is my life, sir.  My mother's got a shop in Brooklyn, I grew up in it, from the time I could crawl, we carry Caen lingerie, it's the best there is, it's all I been thinking about since the invasion.
miller		There's a war on, good chance they're not still making lingerie in Caen.
reiben		Oh, Captain, they'll always make lingerie, it's one of the three basic needs of man -- food, shelter, silk teddies.  Miller Dream on, private.
reiben		Happy to, sir.
miller		Maybe the war's over.
reiben		I don't think so, Captain.
miller		 Keep 'em down, wait for the navy.
sarge		Yes, sir.
miller		Runs over the broken ground and makes it to the sandbagged H.Q.  He stumbles down the make-shift stairs.
miller		Miller, Company B, Second Rangers.
colonel anderson		 ...I understand your problem, but if we don't get those tanks off-loaded by 0600, we're going to have an entire division up at Caen with its ass hanging out of its pants...
miller		My what?
miller		Find a chaplain.
colonel anderson		 ...alright, let me know when.
colonel anderson		Have the Second and Third Regiments hold at St. Michel until we get those tanks.  Aide Yes, sir.
colonel anderson		Report.
miller		Sector four is secured, we put out the last three German one-fifty-fives, found them about two miles in from Ponte du Hoc.
colonel anderson		Resistance?
miller		A company, Wehrmacht, no artillery, we took twenty-three prisoners, turned them over to intelligence.
colonel anderson		Casualties?
miller		Fourty-four, twenty one dead.
miller		They didn't want to give up those one-fifty-fives, sir.
colonel anderson		It was a hard assignment, that's why you got it.
miller		Yes, sir.
colonel anderson		Where are your men now?
miller		Pinned down, a mile east of here, waiting for some help from the navy guns.
colonel anderson		I'm sending Simpson to take over for you, the division is going to Caen, you're not coming with us, I have something else for you.
miller		Sir?
colonel anderson		There's a Private James Ryan who parachuted in with the Hundred-and- First near Ramelle.  I want you to take a squad up there.  If he's alive, bring him back to the beach for debarkation.  Take whoever you need, you've got your pick of the company.
miller		A private, sir?
colonel anderson		He's the last of four brothers, the other three were killed in action. This is straight from the Chief of Staff.
miller		But, sir...I...I...
colonel anderson		Spit it out, Captain.
miller		Respectfully, sir, sending men all the way up to Ramelle to save one private doesn't make a fucking, goddamned bit of sense.  Sir.
colonel anderson		You think just because you hold the Congressional Medal of Honor, you can say any damn thing you please to your superior officers?
miller		Yes, sir, more or less.
colonel anderson		Alright, I'll give you that. Continue.
miller		The numbers don't make sense, sir. His brothers are dead, that's too bad, but they're out of the equation. Sending men up there is bleeding heart crapola from three thousand miles away.  One private is simply not worth a squad.  Colonel anderson This one is.  He's worth a lot more than that.  Which is why I'm sending you, you're the best field officer there is.
miller		Yes and no, sir, what about Morgan? Fine officer, regular church goer, writes poetry, he might like a mission like this.  And he's taller than me.
colonel anderson		That's enough, Captain, you have your orders.  Major Thomas will fill you in.
miller		Yes, sir.
colonel anderson		Good luck, John.
miller		Thank you, sir.
miller		Crouch-runs and dives into a crater with Sarge.
miller		Put on your traveling shoes, Sarge, we're heading out.
sarge		Caen?
miller		I wish.  You and I are taking a squad up to Ramelle on a public relations mission.
sarge		You?  Leading a squad?
miller		Some private up there lost three brothers, got a ticket home.
sarge		What about the company?
miller		Simpson.
sarge		Simpson?  Jesus Christ on a fucking pogo stick!
miller		I want Reiben on B.A.R; Jackson with his sniper rifle; Beasley, demolition.
sarge		Beasley's dead.
miller		Okay, Wade.  Translators?
sarge		Fresh out.
miller		What about Talbot?
sarge		Twenty minutes ago.  Miller Damn, I'll go see if I can find another one.  You get Reiben, Jackson and Wade, meet me at transport.
sarge		Yes, sir.
supply sergeant		GET THOSE GODDAMNED HALF-TRACKS OUT OF THERE!
sergeant		THEN UNBLOCK 'EM!
miller		Strides through the chaos, avoiding the passing vehicles.  He sees his men and walks toward them.  Reiben hurries up to Miller, pleading.
reiben		Please, sir, you can't take me to Ramelle, I gotta go to Caen, sir, please, I told you, they make Caen lingerie there, it's beautiful, it's the best there is, it's...oh, please, sir...
miller		Sorry, I need a B.A.R. man, you're the best.
reiben		 No, I'm not, Kaback is, honest.  Or what about Faulkner?  Or that little guy with the glasses?
miller		Trust me, you're the best.
reiben		 But, sir...
sarge		You get a translator, Captain?
miller		I've got a line on one.
miller		Sergeant, I need a truck.
supply sergeant		Sorry, sir, fresh out of trucks, how 'bout a '38 Ford Roadster, hard-top, red with black interior.
miller		White-walls?
supply sergeant		No white-walls, sir, there's a war on.  I can't help you, sir.
miller		A half-track, anything.
supply sergeant		Sorry, sir.  Division is using everything on wheels to get up to Caen.  How come you guys aren't going?
miller		How about that jeep?
supply sergeant		That's General Gavin's.  His lap dog told me if anyone breathes on it, I'll get busted and if anyone so much as touches it with their little finger, I'll get court marshaled. If you were to take it, they'd shoot me.
jackson		Cap'n, does that mean we got to walk all the way up to Ramelle?
supply sergeant		What's at Ramelle beside a lot of Germans.
miller		A paratrooper named Ryan.  He's going home, if he's alive.
supply sergeant		Senator's son?
miller		No, three brothers of his were killed in action.  Command wants him out of there.
supply sergeant		Damn...I got a couple brothers...
general gavin		SERGEANT, WHERE THE HELL IS MY GODDAMNED JEEP!?
miller		We've got to make one stop.
miller		Wait here.
miller		I understand you speak French and German.
miller		Do you have an accent?
miller		Good, you've been re-assigned to me, we're going to Ramelle.
miller		That's my understanding.
miller		Do you have a problem with that, Corporal?
miller		I need a translator, all mine have been killed.
miller		It'll come back to you.  Get your gear.
miller		A small one.
miller		Go, go...
reiben		Captain, can I ask you a question?
miller		Sure, Reiben.
reiben		Where are you planning on putting Private Ryan, sir?
reiben		 It's just that it's kind of crowded back here, I was wondering if you're expecting to have more room on the way back?
miller		Left.
miller		Now we've got a straight shot, due north, to Ramelle, twenty-six miles, two villages between here and there, St. Mere, then Bernay.  We'll take the jeep as far as we can, then go on on foot.
sarge		We in radio contact with anybody up there?
miller		Somebody put the wrong crystals in every one of the Hundred-and-First's radios the night before the drop, not one of them works.  We're going in blind.
reiben		I usually like surprises.
sarge		What are we likely to run into?
miller		A fucking mess, two maybe three Kraut divisions, no fronts, no lines, the drops were completely fouled up, we've got little pockets of paratroopers all over the place, trying to hang on.  Command says we hold St. Mere, but north of that, it's all Krauts.  Even if Ryan's where he's supposed to be, he's more than likely dead.
sarge		Hell of a mission.
miller		Yep, hell of a mission.
reiben		 You want to shoot him, or should I?
reiben		 Jackson?
jackson		Hell, no, last time I shot a corporal, Cap'n Miller near bit my head off.
miller		I don't want anybody to shoot him, that's an order.  He speaks French and his German has a touch of the Bavarian.
upham		 ...who won the Congressional Medal of Hon...?
reiben		Captain, I gotta tell you, the irony of this mission is fucking killing me.
miller		Yeah, how so?
reiben		I should be on my way to Caen, sir. It's like Beethoven, the guy's one of the greatest composers ever lived and he goes deaf.  Go figure, I mean, who'd he piss off?  And here I am, the Beethoven of ladies foundation garments, one step away from Caen, the center of the known lingerie universe and instead, I'm going to Ramelle to save some fucking private who's probably already dead.
miller		There's to be a bright side, look for it.
reiben		Sir, you know what Ramelle is famous for?  Cheese.  The rest of the company is going to Caen and we're going to the goddamned cheese capital of France.  There is no bright side.
miller		There's always a bright side.
reiben		I'm listening, sir.
miller		Well, I, for one, like cheese.
reiben		Well, you're a happy idiot.
miller		How's the road up to St. Mere?
miller		Anybody getting through?
reiben		Hell, this is better than Coney Island!
miller		Just trying to make room for Ryan.
miller		 Sarge?
miller		Directs Sarge off the road.
miller		They've got the road zeroed.
sarge		Yanks the wheel, driving the jeep off the road.
another explosion		Just behind them.
another explosion		Close on their side.  Showers them with debris.
sarge		Jesus Christ!
miller		They've got a hell of a spotter somewhere.
another explosion		Even closer.  The jeep's PEPPERED WITH SHRAPNEL.  They BARREL THROUGH the smoke.
miller		S-curves, Sarge.
sarge		Turns shallow curves without slowing down.
miller		Sarge!  Reverse!
miller		COME ON!  YOU WANNA WALK?
still dazed		Reiben, Wade, Jackson, Upham screw their heads back on.  Shoulder into the jeep.  Push for all they're worth. The WHEELS STILL SPIN.
sarge		Captain, they got us zeroed.
upham		That's bracketing, right?
upham		I know about bracketing.  I read about it.  The next one is going to land right on us.
miller		FORWARD!  FORWARD!  NOW REVERSE!
sarge		Uh, Captain...
miller		PUSH!
sarge		Uh, Captain...
sarge		 Oh, Captain...
miller		SHIT!
miller		GO!
the men		Instantly take off.  Away from the jeep.  As fast as they can.
direct hit		OBLITERATING THE JEEP
the men		Barely out of the BLAST PERIMETER. STUNNED by the concussion.  SHOWERED with dirt, rock and debris.
miller		Is first up.  Sarge and the men struggle to their feet.  Hear MORE INCOMING.  Miller grabs Upham by the collar and pulls him up.
miller		HERE COME THE MORTARS!
the field		The six Americans run madly, in zig- zag patterns through the gauntlet of MORTAR EXPLOSIONS.  BOOM
reiben		General Gavin is going to be very irritated at you, Captain.
miller		Stands on the edge of the woods, almost in a trance.
upham		Captain, I...
sarge		Sssssh!
miller		Sarge, maps.
miller		Two eighty-eights, just under two- and-a-half miles, that way, vector from the jeep, through those two trees at the base of the hill.  The mortars came from behind that rise, there, four of them.
miller		Wade, the radio.
upham		You can tell all that, just by the sound, sire?
miller		That's not all.  There were nine gunners on the eighty-eights, one had a broken heel on his boot, two had bratwurst for supper last night, one of them is named Fritz, the other, Hans, maybe, I don't know, it's hard to tell.
jackson		Corporal, you have just seen one of Captain Miller's many God-given talents.  If, by some miracle, you survive, you will witness many more of them.
sarge		Got it, sir.  We gonna go take care of those eighty-eights?
miller		That's not what we're here for.
wade		 I've got command, Captain.
miller		 This is Baker Charley One, fire mark, sector three, foxtrot quadrant, four- three by baker-three.  Two eighty- eights.  Tell our boys to come in low from the east in case the Krauts have ack-ack.  Good hunting.  Over.
sarge		He's right, Captain, it might be kind of dangerous for those flyboys.
miller		Tell that to Private James Ryan. We've got our orders.  Let's go.
upham		So, where are you from?
reiben		Get lost.
upham		So, where are you from?
jackson		You writin' a book or somethin'?
upham		As a matter of fact, I am.
jackson		Figured.
wade		I'm Wade, that's spelled, W-A-D-E, I'm small but wiry, with piercing, steel-gray eyes, and a rough-hewn but handsome face, I'm from Colorado, my father's a mining engineer, don't you take notes?
upham		Demolition, right?
wade		Since I was nine years old.  They got a lot of explosives around mines. Me and my little brother could get into any warehouse you ever saw. Damn, we had fun!
jackson		I'm Jackson.  I'm from West Fork, Tennessee.  My pappy's a preacher. Him and his two brothers got a ministry, The Blessed Church of the Wandering Gospel.
upham		In West Fork?
jackson		In the back of a nineteen and thirty- one stretch Hudson with a big ole' trailer.
upham		No kidding.
jackson		I don't make jokes about things of, or related to, the preaching of the Holy Gospel, including the ministerial calling of my family.
upham		So they travel around from place to place and preach?
jackson		We got us a tent, forty-two feet across, eighteen feet at center, hundred-and-ten foldin' chairs. Circuit's eleven towns, covers all 'a Hasset County and most 'a Weller County.  I expect that upon completion of my military service I will be joinin' said ministry.
upham		What about the Captain?  Where's he from?
jackson		You figure that out, you got yourself one nice prize.
sarge		Over three hundred bucks, last I heard.  Wade Company's got a pool, five bucks gets you in, whoever guesses where the Captain's from and what he did as a civilian gets it all.
jackson		The whole kit and caboodle.
upham		But everybody's heard of him, he won the Congressional Medal of Honor, he saved a dozen men.
reiben		We know.
upham		Somebody must know where he's from, what he did for a living.
sarge		Somebody probably does.
upham		Why don't you just ask him?
jackson		The Captain prefers not to discuss certain aspects of his life, in particular, everything up to and including his enlistment in the United States Army.
sarge		I've been with him since Anzio.  I'm closer to him that I am to my own brother but I don't even know what state he's from.  Somewhere in the Northeast as near as I can figure. I don't even have a clue what he did for a living as civilian.
reiben		No one's gonna win the money for the simple reason that the Captain never was a civilian.  They assembled him at O.C.S. out of spare body parts from dead G.I.'s.  I know this for a fact.
jackson		 You got somethin' against the Cap'n?
reiben		Hell, no.  I think he's the best officer in the whole goddamned army, bar none.
jackson		You got that right.
jackson		Captain, my feet are most uncomfortable.  If I'd 'a known we was gonna have to walk all the way to Ramelle, I never would 'a volunteered for this here mission.
miller		You didn't volunteer, Jackson.
jackson		I most likely would have, sir, had I been given the opportunity.
reiben		If we find Ryan and he's still alive, that son-of-a-bitch is gonna carry this goddamned B.A.R. back to the beach for me.
jackson		Army life is too dang easy, my feet have gone soft.  Back home, we go out squirrel huntin', I walk forever and a day and then some, don't even raise a blister.
reiben		You know what a B.A.R. weighs? Nineteen and a half pounds, not counting ammo.  And you think these things are comfortable?  They may look good but they weigh twelve pounds each, that's thirty-six pounds, right there.
wade		So what?  I've got three satchel charges, six gammon grenades, a dozen- and-a-half pineapples, and all my regular gear.  You don't hear me complaining.
reiben		That's because, as I have pointed out on numerous occasions, you are a happy idiot.
wade		No, I just happen to take the Captain's advice and look at the bright side of things.
upham		How do you do it?
wade		It's easy, it runs in my family, take my grandfather, for example...
reiben		Oh, Christ, now we gotta listen to that grandfather thing again.
wade		As I was saying, before I was so rudely interrupted, my grandfather got old, as grandfathers tend to do. He needed someone to take care of him.  We move around all the time, going from one mine to another, so we had to put him in a home.  Nice enough place but kind of depressing. But not for Granddad.  He just convinced himself he was on a cruise ship, going to Tahiti, he had his own cabin, first class, with room service.  It just so happened that the weather was always lousy, so he never bothered to go up on deck. Happiest guy you ever saw until the day he died.
upham		You think he really believed it?
wade		Who knows?  It worked.
reiben		Fine, you convince yourself you got a pack full of feathers and goddamned Private James Ryan can carry my fucking gear.
wade		Reiben, you can be very unpleasant to be around sometimes.
reiben		You want unpleasant?  Just wait, I can do much better than this.
wade		Look at Upham, you don't hear him complaining.
upham		Well, as a matter of fact, I was just thinking...
upham		 That I'm so fucking tired of this goddamned walking, I'd pay a thousand dollars to see that bastard Ryan crawl on his belly over an acre of broken glass to hear my great-aunt Martha fart through a field-phone.
reiben		Jesus Christ, he's a natural!
miller		Upham, are you sure you've never been in combat?
miller		He's good.
jackson		Cap'n, my feet are most uncomfortable.
miller		Stay low.
jackson		Dang!  That was close!
miller		Your turn.
miller		Zig-zag, change your pace a couple times, you'll be alright.
miller		Okay, I'm going to draw fire for you.  But if I do, you goddamned well better go.
miller		Looks to Upham
miller		Ready?
miller		Go.
reiben		Hey, that guy can move.
sarge		 Sir.
reiben		Captain, he's fast!
miller		 Glad of it.
upham		On the other side of the street, crouches in a doorway with Jackson. Upham is a bit in shock, less from the nearness of the bullets than from what Miller just did for him.
miller		DASHES across the street.
miller		Bring 'em over.
upham		Captain, I...
miller		One at a time.
miller		Ducks out of the doorway and crouch- runs down the block.  He passes a:
miller		Sees the dead and wounded, shows no reaction.  Runs to:
an alley		Captain Hamill and his men are bunched there, out of the line of fire. He's sending off a squad to continue their door-to-door.
miller		We had a jeep until a few hours ago, a nice one, it had a cute little flag with a couple of stars on it.
miller		We called in a strike on the eighty- eights that took it out, but it's the Kraut spotter that counts, wherever the hell that bastard is.
miller		Jackson.
upham		What is that?
jackson		Thirty-ought-six, Norton long-barrel with dual-groove, parallel rifling, elevated three-glass scope and a single-throw hammer.
upham		The Army gave you that?
jackson		Yep.
upham		You must be a hell a shot.
jackson		Not where I come from.
upham		That must be four thousand yards.
jackson		 Forty-two-hundred, I figure.
upham		You take account of the wind?
reiben		 Dang right, he take 'count of the wind, ain't ya'll ever heard a Kentucky windage?
jackson		Reiben, how many time I got to tell you, I'm from Tennessee.
reiben		They got squirrels there, too, right?
miller		Very far, they're not coming this way, they're going to take Caen first.
miller		Five, but we not staying, we're on our way to Ramelle.
miller		Yeah, you know about that?
miller		Wonderful.
miller		How do we get out of here?
miller		Yeah?
miller		Thanks.
miller		Let's find someplace to hole up.
upham		Sir, I'm sorry about what happened, I...
miller		 It was nothing.
upham		But you could have gotten killed and I...
miller		 Don't bunch up.
upham		Did you see what he did, back there? He stepped right into the open, so I could get across.
jackson		Shit, that was no big deal.
wade		They can't kill him.
sarge		Like hell they can't.
reiben		Wade's right, it's some kind of scientific, magnetic thing, I can't explain it, but I've seen it.
wade		We all have, he's got nine lives, or he's bulletproof, or some damn thing.
sarge		No one's bulletproof.  No one.  C'mon, stay low.
reiben		Captain, could you please explain the math of this mission to me?
miller		Sure, what do you want to know?
reiben		Well, sir, in purely arithmetic terms, since when does six equal one?  What's the sense in risking six guys to save one?
miller		Ours is not to reason why.
reiben		Huh?
miller		Never mind, don't worry, we'll pick up this kid, high-tail it back to division, everything'll work out fine.
reiben		I'd much rather die in Caen than Ramelle, sir.  It's a personal thing.
miller		Reiben, there's a fairly good chance you're not going to die at all.
reiben		Easy for you to say, sir.  Fucking James Ryan, I'd like to wring his fucking neck.
sarge		Jesus, Reiben, think of the poor bastard's mother.
reiben		Hey, I got a mother.  Jackson, you got a mother?
jackson		Last I knew.
reiben		Wade, Sarge, Corporal Insect, all of us, hell, I'll bet even the Captain has a mother.
reiben		Well, maybe not the Captain, but the rest of us have mothers.
miller		You have orders, too.
jackson		Sir, I have an opinion on this matter.
miller		I'd love to hear it.
jackson		Seems to me, Cap'n, this mission is a serious misallocation of valuable military resources.  Miller Go on.
jackson		Well, sir, by my way a thinkin' I am a finely made instrument of warfare. What I mean by that is, if you was to put me with this here sniper rifle anywhere up to and includin' one mile from Adolf Hitler, with a clear line of sight, war's over.
miller		Reiben, I want you to listen closely to Jackson.  This is the way to gripe. Jackson, continue.
jackson		Yes, sir.  It seems to me, sir, that the entire resources of the United States Army oughta be dedicated to one thing and one thing only, and that is to put me and this here weapon on a rooftop, smack-dab in the middle of Berlin, Germany.  Now I ain't one to question decisions made up on high, sir, but it seems to me that saving one private, no matter how grievous the losses of his family, is a waste of my God-given talent.
miller		Wade?
wade		Hell, I don't mind this mission, sir, as long as there's something up at Ramelle for...
reiben		 ...for you to blow up, yeah, yeah, we heard that.
miller		Upham?
upham		Pass.
miller		Sarge?
sarge		I'm just here to keep a bunch of numb-nuts, including one certain, frequently suicidal, tempter-of-fate, from getting themselves killed.
reiben		And what about you, Captain?
miller		Reiben, what's the matter with you? I don't gripe to you.  I'm a captain. There's a chain of command.  Griping goes one way, up, only up, never down.  You gripe to me, I gripe to my superior officers.  Up, get it? I don't gripe to you, I don't gripe in front of you.  How long you been in the army?
reiben		I'm sorry, sir, I apologize.  But if you weren't a captain, or if I were a major, what would you say?
miller		In that case, I would say this is an excellent mission, with an extremely valuable objective, worthy of my best efforts.
miller		 In addition, as I pointed out earlier, I have a fondness for cheese and I hope to have the opportunity to sample some of the Ramelle products, when we arrive there, to see if they live up to their excellent reputation. Moreover, I feel heartfelt sorrow for the mother of Private James Ryan and I'm more than willing to lay down my life, and the lives of my men, especially you, Reiben, to help relieve her suffering.  The men thoroughly enjoy the performance.
reiben		Sir, if you were not a captain, I would compliment you, now, for being an excellent liar.
miller		But I am a captain.  If I were not a captain, I would thank you for the compliment and tell you that the ability to lie comes from being a top-notch poker player, which I am, having learned at the side of my mother who is, by popular acclaim, the best poker player in...
miller		 ...my home town, which shall remain un-named.
miller		Any further thoughts on the subject?
reiben		Yes, sir, as a final note, I'd like to say, fuck our orders, fuck Ramelle, fuck the cheese capital of France and while we're at it, fuck Private James Ryan.
miller		I'll make a note of your suggestions but I'll leave that last one to you, especially if he's already dead.
miller		We move out in two hours, try and get some sleep.
sarge		You ever going to open those letters? Miller keeps his eyes on the maps.
miller		Maybe.
sarge		It's not normal, not reading letters from home.
miller		Since when have things been normal?
sarge		You got me.  Afraid of bad news?
miller		Nope.
sarge		Good news?
sarge		You think they'll be alright?
miller		They're fine.  As long as they can gripe, they'll be alright.
sarge		And what about you?
miller		They guys here aren't going to be able to hold out until battalion shows up.
sarge		Nope.
miller		Command isn't going to let them withdraw and the Germans sure as hell aren't going to let them surrender.
sarge		Three for three.
miller		If we stayed, we could make a difference.
sarge		You're kidding yourself.
miller		You never know.
sarge		I hope this boy Ryan is worth it.
miller		Now you're the one kidding yourself.  Hell of  a mission.
sarge		Yup, hell of a mission.
miller		Rise and shine, boys.  Let's go.
sarge		 Makes you feel small, doesn't it?
miller		It doesn't take this.
upham		I wasn't made for this.
miller		 You think the rest of us were?
miller		Don't worry, Upham, God'll protect you, this shit's gonna keep him up all night, anyway.
miller		Let's go, this ain't what they pay us for.
reiben		 Just what I need.
miller		Thanks, but you may need these more than us, or Ryan.
miller		Let's move out.
miller		A couple of weeks.  It started in Portsmouth when they brought us down for loading.
sarge		Is it getting worse?
miller		No.  It comes and goes.  It stops when I look at it.
sarge		You may have to find yourself a new line of work, this one doesn't seem to agree with you anymore.
miller		I'll be alright.
miller		It'll be light, soon.  Let's pick it up.
miller		It looks like a Renoir.
upham		Yes.  Do you know Sibelius' Fourth Symphony, The Normandy?
miller		I've been humming it.
upham		I heard.
miller		It seemed appropriate.
upham		You know classical music?
miller		Some.
upham		Where are you from, Captain?
miller		What's the pool up to?
upham		Over three-hundred.
miller		I'll tell you what, if I'm still alive when it hits five-hundred, I'll let you know and we'll split the money.
upham		If that's the way you feel, why don't we wait until it's up to a thousand.
miller		I don't expect to live that long.
upham		Five hundred, then.
miller		Let's go, private.
upham		Five nights ago, he found this paratrooper caught in a tree with a broken leg.  The leg got infected. Last night he went to Ville Cholet to get a doctor.  The doctor refused to come and when he got back, this is what he found.  The Krauts must have shown up while he was gone.
miller		Did he see any sign of them?
upham		No, but he heard firing, just east, less that a kilometer.
miller		Thank him and tell him we're sorry about his loss.
wade		Captain.
miller		Where?
jackson		In the shadow by those two trees.
miller		My guess, too.
upham		What is it?
miller		A machine gun.
reiben		Sir, I've got an idea, let's go around.
miller		We can't leave it here.
jackson		We left them eighty-eights.
miller		They don't send planes to put out machine guns.  Two flank runners with surpressing fire.  I'm going right, whoever goes left has to be fast.
upham		Sir, I ran the 220 in high school.
reiben		He's fast, Captain, I saw him.
wade		How fast?
upham		Twenty-four-five.
wade		Shit, that's nothing, I ran twenty- two flat.
miller		Wade goes left.
upham		Twenty-two flat?
wade		I would have won the states if some bastard hadn't tripped me in the finals.
miller		Sarge, Upham, here.  Jackson, Reiben, ten yards, either side.
sarge		Rule of thumb, Captain, says you ought to detail this one, instead of going yourself.
miller		Yeah?  What rule of thumb is that?
sarge		How about I go right, sir?
miller		How about you take your position?
sarge		How about...?
miller		 How about you shut up and take your position?
sarge		Yes, sir.
upham		Good luck, Captain.
miller		Don't need it, I'm a cat, I've got five lives.
upham		The men said, nine.
miller		What do they know?  I had nine, but I feel through the ice when I was seven, my brother pulled me out.  Then I used one when a grenade landed in my foxhole in Sicily, it was a dud.  I figure one on the beaches, one on the cliffs and two getting here.
upham		That only leaves three.
miller		Plenty.
miller		Ready?
wade		Yes, sir.
miller		Takes the FIRST FIRE.  He HITS THE DIRT.  The BULLETS SCREAM just over him.
sarge		FIRES A LONG BURST from his Thompson. No effect.  Pissed.  POPS THE CLIP. SLAMS in another.  FIRES.
wade		Ten more yards.  Too slow.  A deadly row of BULLETS KICK UP DIRT toward him.
miller		Makes it to the far side.  Scrambles up the roots.  Dives through the brush.
wade		On a slight rise.  Can't hit the dirt.  A line of bullets.  Desperately sprints.
miller		STRUGGLES through the hedgerow. Stumbles onto the path.  Rolls to his feet, running.  Swings his Thompson into firing position.  Racing toward the nest.
miller		Tearing along the path.  Sees a German rifleman.  FIRES A BURST.  CUTS HIM DOWN.  Runs over the body without breaking stride.
miller		TEARS THROUGH THE TREES.  BLASTS his Thompson.  CUTS DOWN two more German riflemen.  Grabs a grenade.  Pulls the pin.
the nest		The Germans see Miller coming.  Wheel from Sarge.  Too late.
miller		THROWS the grenade, VEERS and DIVES.
sarge		HOLD YOUR FIRE!
miller		Rolls to his feet.  FIRE another BURST.  KILLS the last of the German riflemen.  Doesn't pause.  RUNS onto the field.
wade		Lies in the grass.  Holding his belly. Astonished by the pain.
miller		REIBEN, UPHAM, PERIMETER!  COVER!
sarge		Roots through his medical kit as he runs.  Dropping and scattering inessentials behind him.
wade		Wide-eyed.  Not even writhing.  Too much pain.
sarge		Pulls Wade's hands from the wound. Pours sulfa powder.
miller		About to pour his sulfa.  Sees the wound.  Stops.  Knows it's fatal.
miller		Damn it!
sarge		Fumbles with a second sulfa bag.
sarge		Sulfa, more sulfa...
wade		Frozen in agony.  Looks at Miller. Sees him preparing the morphine shot. They both know.
wade		Yeah...morphine...make it a double...huh...Captain...?
miller		SHOVES THE NEEDLE into Wade's neck. Thick vein.  Pumps the morphine straight to Wade's brain.  Motions impatiently to Sarge.
miller		More morphine, hurry up, come on, come on...
sarge		Hesitates.  Then drops his sulfa. Fumbles in his pack.  Finds the morphine.
miller		Snatches the morphine from Sarge. Quickly and efficiently prepares a second shot.  He's done this before.
reiben		On guard, glancing back.  Pissed off.
reiben		Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...
upham		Freaked out.  Trying to keep his eyes on the perimeter.  Can't.
jackson		Watching.
miller		Gives Wade the second shot.
wade		Feels the effects of the first shot. He sees Upham and manages a pained smile.
reiben		Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...
miller		Is silent.  Motionless.  He gently closes Wade's eyes.  His hand quivers slightly as he unclips one of Wades dogtags.  He fumbles and drops it. Sarge notices.
upham		That was no twenty-two flat.
miller		He lied.  Let's move out.
reiben		Fuck Private James Ryan, fuck him, just fuck the goddamned son-of-a- bitch.
jackson		Shut up, will you?
reiben		You shut up, this is the most fucked up mission I ever heard of.  Goddamned Ryan, fuck the little bastard.
jackson		Just shut up, Ryan didn't kill Wade.
reiben		The hell he didn't.
miller		Keep it down.
miller		We've got to find someplace to hole up for a bit.
sarge		You alright?
miller		Let's just find someplace.
miller		Rest.  One hour.  Jackson, Reiben, perimeter.  Keep your eyes open. I'm going to re-con.
miller		What was the name of that kid at Anzio, the one who got his face burned off?
sarge		Vecchio.
miller		Yeah, Vecchio, I couldn't remember his name, he was a good kid, remember how he used to walk on his hands and sing that song about the man on flying trapeze?
sarge		Yeah.
miller		You know why I'm such a good officer? Because of my mother.  Have I ever told you about her?
sarge		Bits and pieces.
miller		She's the best poker player you ever saw.  My father used to go to these Saturday night games and lose his shirt.  Finally, my mother gave him an ultimatum, either she gets a regular seat at the table or she locks him in every Saturday night. He squawked and so did his buddies but after a while they gave in and from the first night she sat down, she never lost.  She could read those cocky bastards like they were playing open hands.  And he bluffs?  He had sixteen levels of bullshit.  Her eyes, the tone of her voice, her bets, her jokes, the way she sipped her coffee, she was a master.  She won more money on shit hands than anyone in the history of the game. Every Saturday night, my father would lose two, three hundred bucks and she'd win it all back and then some. And I'd stand there, glued to her shoulder, from the time I was five years old, watching every hand, every move, studying how she did it.  That's why I'm such a good officer, I can look at a man's face and tell you exactly what he's holding, and if it's a shit hand, I know just what cards to deal him.
sarge		And what about your own hand?
miller		No problem.  A pair of deuces?  Less? So what?  I bluff.  It used to tear me apart when I'd get one of my men killed, but what was I supposed to do?  Break down in front of the ones who were standing there waiting for me to tell them what to do?  Of course not, so I bluffed, and after a while, I started to fall for my own bluff. It was great, it made everything so much easier.  Sarge Is that why your hand's been shaking?
miller		It could be worse.  You know the first thing they teach you at O.C.S.? Lie to your men.
sarge		Oh, yeah?
miller		Not in so many words, but they tell you you can have all the firepower in the world and if your men don't have good morale, it's not worth a damn.  So if you're scared or empty or half-a-step from a Section Eight, do you tell your men?  Of course not.  You bluff, you lie.
sarge		And how do you bluff yourself?
miller		Simple, numbers.  Every time you kill one of your men, you tell yourself you just saved the lives of two, three, ten, a hundred others. We lost, what, thirty-one on the cliffs?  I'll bet we saved ten times that number by putting out those guns.  That's over three hundred men.  Maybe five hundred.  A thousand. Then thousand.  Any number you want. See?  It's simple.  It lets you always choose mission over men.
sarge		Except this time, the mission IS a man.
miller		That's the rub.  I liked Wade.  Who's Ryan?  If they're both standing in front of me and I have to shoot one or the other, how do I choose?  Look at my hand, there it goes again.
sarge		John, I've got to tell you, I think you're about used up.
miller		I think you're right, Keith.
sarge		You want me to take over?
miller		No, but if I get any worse, you'll have to relieve me.
sarge		 Just what I want to do.
miller		You know Wade was the eleventh of the twelve, you're the last one still alive.
sarge		I know.
miller		Don't let yourself get killed, if you do, they might make me give back the medal and then I won't be able to lip off to colonels anymore.
sarge		I'll do my best.
miller		Thanks for drawing that machine gun off me.
sarge		You're welcome, John.
miller		But, that's my personal brand of stupidity, I feel kind of proprietary about it, if you do it again, you're busted.
sarge		Yes, sir.
miller		Up.  We're moving out.
reiben		I thought you said we had an hour, sir?
miller		Well now I'm saying we're moving out.  Get off your ass.
miller		What the hell's the matter with you, Jackson?
jackson		Sir, I ain't feeling so chipper on account of Wade.
miller		Who's Wade?
miller		I said, who the hell is Wade?
jackson		Sir, I understand what you're doin', but I respectfully request permission to grieve in my own manner.
miller		You'll grieve the way I tell you to goddamned grieve.  There is no Wade, there was one, but he died a long time ago, he's been dead for so long you can hardly remember his name, you understand?
jackson		Sir, I understand.  I don't like it, but I understand.
miller		Good, now get your goddamned gear.
reiben		You know what the best possible thing that could happen is?
jackson		Yep, you step on a rusty nail, get lockjaw, never say another word as long as you live.
reiben		I've given this a lot of thought, sir.  The best thing that could happen is, we find Ryan and he's dead.
miller		Why's that?
reiben		Well, sir, consider the possibilities. A:  Ryan is alive.  We have to take him back to the beach.  Knowing you, you don't let him carry my gear, even though he really should, and we all get killed, trying to keep him alive.
miller		Except for the last part, that one's not bad.
reiben		B:  Ryan is dead.  He's been blown up by the German equivalent of Wade, whose name I know you don't want me to mention.  There's nothing to find. The biggest piece is the size of a pea.  We wander around, looking for him until the Germans pick us off, one after another.
miller		I don't like that one.
reiben		Neither do I, sir.  C:  And this is the worst one, we find Ryan and he's wounded.  Not only does he not carry my gear, we have to carry his gear. And him.
miller		But we accomplish the mission.
reiben		Maybe.  But what if he dies on the way back?  you see what I'm saying, sir?  The best possible situation is, he's dead, we find his body, more or less intact, we grab one of his dog-tags and high-tail it back to the beach, or better yet, we head over to Caen and catch up with division.
miller		Has anyone ever told you, you're officer material?
reiben		No, sir.
miller		That's a mystery to me.
sarge		Looks like we're going to beat those Kraut companies to Ramelle.
miller		I don't think so.
miller		Is just about to open up on them.
upham		I wonder where they're going.
miller		Same place we are.
miller		Scans the Germans with his binoculars.
reiben		Looks like tea time, maybe they're Brits.
upham		I sure hope so.
sarge		What do you think they're waiting for, Captain?
miller		Puts away the binoculars and jerks his head for his men to follow, low, along the wall.  The men are happy to do so, looking back nervously at the German tanks.
reiben		Looks like they've been having a hell of a party, here, Captain.
miller		ON THE BRIDGE!  WE'RE COMING IN.
miller		YOU FIRE AT US AND I'LL DO A HELL OF A LOT MORE THAN THAT.
miller		I HAVE NO FUCKING IDEA.  HERE WE COME.  Cover me.
reiben		What if our guys open up, sir?
miller		You're only allowed to shoot at Germans, that's one of the rules.
reiben		Have it your way, Captain.
miller's men		POUR FIRE at the German positions, SURPRESSING THE GERMAN FIRE.
miller		I'll keep it in mind.  OKAY, SARGE, ONE AT A TIME.
miller		Things are tough all over.  We're looking for a Private James Ryan.
miller		Is he here?
miller		Jackson, get a hold of command.
miller		How many men do you have?
jackson		Not yet.
miller		Keep trying.
miller's men		All watch Ryan run toward them.
jackson		So, that's Ryan.
reiben		Looks like a flaming asshole to me.
reiben		I'm Ryan, sir.  You wanted to see me?
miller		Yes.
the paratroopers		Are stunned at the news.  They look at Ryan, there's nothing else they can do.
miller's men		Also look at Ryan, but then, one after another, they turn away, adverting their eyes, looking a their own boots, the debris on the bridge, the sky, anything other than Ryan.
miller		We've been sent to get you out of here.  You're going home.
miller		Sergeant, we're moving out and I'm taking you and your men with me.
miller		I'm giving you new orders, Sergeant.
miller		I'm not going to leave you and your men here to get killed.  Get them together, we're moving out.
miller		Come on, Private, you're going home.
ryan		No, sir.
miller		Private.  I'm sorry about your brothers but staying here and getting yourself killed isn't going to help.
ryan		Sir, if the Krauts are holding this bridge when division shows up, our guys are going to be sitting ducks.
miller		This bridge cannot be held.  The Germans have two companies less than three miles from here.  They have tanks.
miller		Private, if you want to commit suicide, that's your choice, but you're going to have to wait until after I get you back to the beach. And you're not going to take these men with you.
ryan		I'm not leaving, sir.
miller		The hell you aren't, you're comin' with me if I have to drag you every inch of the way.  You hear me, Private?
ryan		I hear you sir, but I'm not leaving.
miller		Listen you little son-of-a-bitch you're coming with me or I'll...I'll...
ryan		What are you going to do, sir, shoot me?
reiben		 Uh, excuse me, Captain.
reiben		 So, what are a few tanks, sir?
reiben		 He's right, we can't shoot him...well, we could but we'd get in an enormous amount of trouble.  And he's right about the bridge, it's a hell of a lot more important than he is.
jackson		Cap'n...?
jackson		 Seems to me, we got us a opportunity, here, to kill two birds with one stone.  Command seems to think keepin' this boy alive is worth somethin'. If we was to do that and hold this bridge, good chance we'd get us a bucket full of medals.  I might even get me one 'a them big, fancy ones like you got, so's I could sass any officer in the whole dang army, you included.
upham		I'd like to stay, too, Captain.
miller		You don't count.
sarge		I do and personally, I'd rather get the hell out of here, but somebody's got to stay and take care of you and these pin-head privates of yours.
reiben		See, Captain?  The vote's unanimous.
reiben		Yes, sir, of course, sir, I was merely speaking hypothetically.  IF this was a voting situation, then the vote would have been unanimous.  But of course, it's not a voting situation, you're the captain, and you give the orders, sir.
miller		You're goddamned right, I give the order.  Vote!  Jesus Christ!  Listen to me, you little pissant pieces of shit, I am the ranking officer here and what I say goes, is that clear?
jackson		Yes, sir.
reiben		Of course, sir.
miller		In that case...  I vote we stay.
miller		Reiben, the B.A.R., there.  Jackson, get up on the bridgekeepers hut with your sniper rifle.  Sarge, you and Upham move that machine gun so it can cover the left flank, it's worthless where it is.  Forrest, I want a full inventory of all your weapons, ammo and ordnance.  Go.
ryan		Thank you, sir.
miller		 Yeah, yeah.  I want you right next to me, no matter where I go, you understand?
ryan		Yes, sir.
miller		Alright, come with me.
miller		That's it?
reiben		Sir, can I change my vote?
upham		Sits beside Jackson with a pair of binoculars, searching for another target.  The German sniper fire has subsided for now.  Ext. bridge - day Miller watches as Ryan and several other paratroopers dig a series of trenches across the street, leading to the bridge.
miller		Sarge, see what you can do to make those buildings inhospitable.
sarge		Yes, sir.
upham		Eighty-eights, right?
upham		I can tell what the gunners had for dinner.
miller		Those guns are close.
miller		Let's hope they don't change their mind.
sarge		What do you think?
miller		Well, if we had ten times the men and a lot more ammo, we might stand a chance, but not against those tanks.
sarge		What are we going to do?
miller		We're going to hope like hell the tanks were on their way somewhere else.
reiben		Maybe Caen.
miller		Let's hope, because we're sure as hell not going to do any damage to them with what we have here.
upham		What about our grenades?
miller		Those are Tigers, they have six-inch armor, they don't even notice grenades.
upham		Would they notice and eighty-eight?
miller		Sure, you got one?
upham		The Germans do.
miller		Upham, go find Jackson, he and I are going hunting.
sarge		Uh, oh.
miller		Out of the mouth of babes.
miller		Upham, you've got to learn the difference between whining and griping.  You can't just rely on natural ability, you've got to study and practice.
upham		But, sir...
miller		There you go again, that's whining, that's not okay.
upham		Goddamn it, sir...
miller		That's better, but you've still got a long way to go.  Talk to Reiben, he's a natural and works at it, he'll give you some pointers.
reiben		Leave him to me, Captain, I'll have him pissing and moaning with the best of us.
miller		See to it.
ryan		I'd like to go, sir.
miller		No, private, I want you to stay here, keep your head down, don't do anything brave or stupid.
reiben		Aren't they the same thing, sir?
miller		Reiben, I don't know what I'd do without you.  Sarge, keep Ryan close to you and alive.
sarge		Yes, sir.
miller		You ready?
jackson		You betcha, sir.
reiben		 Y'all come back.
jackson		Reiben, are you makin' fun 'a the way I talk?
reiben		 Hell, no!
miller		Eyes the emplacement.  Looks for a weakness.  There is none.  He motions to Forrest and Jackson to wait.  The three of them settle into the darkness.
sarge		Private, I'm sorry about your brothers.
sarge		Wade.
ryan		Wade.  Huh, he died coming up here to keep me alive...I never met him...he didn't know me from Adam, strange.  What was he like?
sarge		A good man, kind of cheerful, Reiben, here, used to call him a happy idiot.
reiben		Like hell, I did.
ryan		My brothers would be mighty pissed off at me, if they knew I let some guy get killed trying to keep me alive.
sarge		You didn't let anybody get killed, you didn't even know we were coming up here.
ryan		Sure, I know, but...  Goddamn it all...
a shadow		It's Miller.  Easing through the darkness.  Closer to one of the sentries.
other germans		Race over, FIRING.
jackson		Covering them, OPENS UP.  Kills the advancing Germans.
the windshield		Is shattered by bullets.
forrest		In the back of the truck.
miller		RYAN!  GET BACK THERE!
ryan		Sorry, sir.
miller		Don't do that again.
ryan		I won't need to sir, it's already here, behind the barricade so...
ryan		Yes, sir.
reiben		What do you think?
jackson		I think I'm we got that eighty-eight.
reiben		I mean, Ryan, what do you think of him?
jackson		He ain't half-bad, I guess.
reiben		I guess.
jackson		He ain't Wade.
reiben		Nope, he ain't Wade.
miller		Crouch-runs through the shadows and stops at the bridgekeepers hut.
miller		Reiben...
reiben		Yes, sir.
miller		You set?  Sarge nods.
ryan		Yes, sir.
jackson		Behind the sandbags, on top of the bridgekeeper's hut.
miller		At the bridgehead, waiting.
miller		Cocks his Thompson.  Settles down behind some sandbags.
miller		HERE THEY COME!
reiben		OPENS UP with the MACHINE GUN.
the germans		At least fifty of them, advancing on the bridge.  Running from cover to cover.  A squad pushing a French truck, using it as a shield.
jackson		Calmly picking off the attacking Germans.
miller		Sees Reiben and Upham being cut off. Grabs the B.A.R., stands and fires.
reiben		Time to go.
germans everywhere		They swarm over the first barricade.
miller		FIRES A BURST into a German's belly. HITS another with the stock of his Thompson.
ryan		Is jumped on by one.  Upham FIRES. KILLS the German.
miller		Struggling with a pair of Germans.
jackson		FIRES.  Drops one of the Germans on Miller with a head shot.  Cuts open Miller's face with bits of skull.
ryan		Leaps onto the final German attacking Miller.  That German raises his rifle on Ryan.
upham		I got him.
reiben		Like hell you did, I got him.
jackson smiles		He got him.
miller		BACK!  LET'S GO!
sarge		Sees them in deep trouble.  Leaves Ryan firing the rear machine gun. Grabs the B.A.R. ADVANCES, FIRING COVER.  Exposed.
bullets everywhere		MILLER, REIBEN, UPHAM make it to the barricade.  Dive over.
sarge		Sees they've made it.  FIRES A FINAL BURST.  Races for cover.  A trail of bullets right behind him.
the americans		Desperately trying to cover him.
the germans		Open up with a volley.
sarge		Is almost there.
sarge		Five feet from the sandbags, his back is TORN APART by Germans fire. He looks down, stunned at his chest. Amazed to see GAPING HOLES.  An instant of surprise, more than fear.
the germans		Who killed Sarge are killed.  The others back off for now.
miller		Grabs Sarge and pulls him over the barricade.  Sees that he's dead.
miller		Stunned, lays Sarge down, kneeling next to him.
the others		Watch, start to gather.
reiben		Goddamn it...Goddamn it...Goddamn it...
miller		Get back to your positions!
miller		Go!
miller		Doesn't move.  He just stares at Sarge's body.
ryan		Looks at Miller, sees him growing weak, starting to sway.  He gently tries to move Miller aside.
ryan		I'll take care of Sarge...
miller		Sarge?  Who's Sarge?
miller		English teacher, Addley, Pennsylvania.
upham		What'd you say, Captain?
miller		I teach English at Addley High School in Addley, Pennsylvania.
reiben		Well, I'll be goddamned, I knew it.
jackson		Like hell, you did.
upham		Captain, what about our deal?
miller		I changed my mind.
reiben		What deal?
miller		I coach the baseball team, too.
jackson		No kiddin'?
reiben		What deal?
upham		Forget it.
miller		You know that cruise ship Wade's grandfather was on?
miller		 I wonder if his cabin is still available?
reiben		That's not where I am.  Miller No? Where are you?
reiben		I'm in a dressing room with Mrs. Rachel Troubowitz, our super's wife. She's an easy forty-four, double E, but I've convinced her she's a thirty- eight D and I'm watching her try and squeeze herself into a side-stay, silk-ribboned, three-panel girdle with s Helf-lift brassiere.  She's having a devil of a time, getting into that thing.
jackson		Me?  I'm walking with my hound, Lucy, it's about an hour 'fore sunrise and we're out huntin' coon.  I got me a flask of pure Kentucky mash whiskey...
reiben		Jackson, how many times I got to tell you, you're from Tennessee.
jackson		I am, but I like imported whiskey. So there I am and I hear the biggest ole' coon you ever did hear, 'a rustlin' right there in front of me. That ole' boy comes right out of the brush, I got a clear shot and he knows he's 'bout to meet his maker. I aim, I got my finger tight on the trigger and then I just smile and say to that ole' coon, go on, now, you get out 'a here.  Then I sit down on a hollow log and take me a right long pull a' that mash whiskey.
upham		I don't know, I kind of like Wade's idea about the cruise ship.  I've never been to Tahiti.
reiben		What about you, Captain?
miller		I'm in my backyard, lying in my hammock, with my arm around my wife, listening for the sound of breaking glass.
jackson		Say what, Cap'n?
miller		You see, I've got the best house in all of Addley.  It's not the biggest house, but it's got the best location, right next to the junior high baseball field.  The garage windows face left field.  The guy who owned the house before me had these heavy screen S put over them.  The first thing I did when I bought the place was take off those screens.  Two-hundred-twenty- two yards from home plate to my garage windows.  It takes a hell of a junior high kid to hit a ball that far.  I look at my garage windows as a Motivator and a way to scout the kids coming up, the ones who are going to give us a shot at the state championship.  I lay there in my hammock and every time I hear the sound of breaking glass, I know we're one step closer to winning it all.
jackson		Don't that get kind of expensive, Cap'n?
miller		It's worth it.
jackson		To each, his own.
miller		How about you, James?
ryan		I'm home, playing basketball with my brothers, it's evenin' time, we're trying' to get in a few more points before it's too dark to see the ball. That's where I am.
miller		Hears the FAINT DISTANT RUMBLE OF THE TANK.  Barely has time to react. Sees:
miller		Here they come.
reiben		FIRES a burst.  Germans drops.
miller		FIRES a burst.  More Germans drop.
miller		Manning the forward machine gun. Way out front.  Sees that he's going to be cut off.  He grabs the hot gun.  The barrel burns into his flesh. He ignores the pain and RUNS BACK toward the bridge.
the germans		Take positions near the bridge. Moving in.  FIRING.  Overwhelming. They're everywhere.
three germans		Break through the perimeter.
reiben		Sees Ryan.  Races over.  SHOOTS one German.  STABS the other.
miller		FIRES again.  More Germans drop.
the germans		Take positions in the building near the bridge.
reiben		MORE AMMO!
upham		Hears that.  Doesn't hesitate.  He grabs a pair of ammo boxes.  RUNS toward Reiben and Ryan.
upham		TAKES HALF-A-DOZEN SLUGS.  Torn apart. Stumbles the final few steps to the machine gun nest.  Falls on the sandbags, giving Reiben and Ryan the ammo.  UPHAM'S DEAD.
reiben		Continues FIRING.  CUTTING DOWN the advancing Germans.
miller		Knows what that means.  He hears the RUMBLE OF THE TANKS.
miller		TIGHTEN IT UP!  HERE THEY COME!
jackson		On the bridgekeeper's hut.  Picking off German soldiers who follow the tank.
the tank		Stops.  Grinds its gears.  Turning it's turret towards the bridgekeepers hut.
miller		JACKSON!
jackson		Knows what's coming but he holds his position, continuing to pick off German soldiers.
miller		Shoves the FINAL SHELL into the breech of the eighty-eight.  Pats Ryan on the back.  Grabs a SATCHEL CHARGE.
ryan		FIRES THE EIGHTY-EIGHT.
miller		Races through the debris.  Trailed by BULLETS.
reiben		With the machine gun.  Covers Miller. Keeping most of the German infantry down.
miller		Is almost there.  He arms the satchel charge.
miller		Throws the satchel charge under the tank.  Rolls off the edge of the bridge.  Lands on the embankment below.
miller		HOLD IT!  HOLD IT!
miller		Goddamn it!
reiben		More tanks...  Ryan Lot's of them The fear on their faces turns to resignation.  They know that they are dead men.  They settle into their positions, and prepare to fire and die.
miller		Miller, Company B, Second Rangers, that's Private Richard Reiben and that's Private James Ryan, Hundred- and-First Airborne.
sergeant		Ryan?
miller		Walks to the bodies.  He kneels down next to Sarge and looks at him for a long moment.  Then, with a steady hand, he takes one of Sarge's two dog-tags.  Then he does the same to Jackson and Upham.
miller		Stands and walks back to Reiben and Ryan.  He hands the dog-tags to Ryan who grips them tightly and nods in thanks.
ryan		Captain?
miller		Yes, Private.
ryan		Upham and Jackson, what were they like?
miller		Upham?  Good kid, smart, he was writing a book.
ryan		Yeah?
reiben		Yeah, and he was fast, too, ran the 220 in twenty-four-five.
ryan		No kidding.
miller		Jackson was from West Fork, Tennessee, he was going to be a preacher, his father and uncles have a traveling ministry out of the back of a stretch Hudson.
ryan		And Sarge?
miller		Sarge?  Lemme tell you about Sarge...
****Dialogues from script :Saw.txt****

adam		Help! Someone help me!  Shit, Im probably dead.
lawrence		Youre not dead.  Adam quickly turns in the direction of the voice. Holding his arms out for balance, he tries to look across the room to whoever is speaking, but still cannot see a thing.
adam		Whos that? Whos that?!
lawrence		 Theres no point in yelling, I already tried it.
adam		Turn on the lights!
lawrence		Would if I could.
adam		What the fuck is going on? Where am I? 
lawrence		I dont know yet.
adam		 What is that smell?
lawrence		Shh! Hang on a second, I think I found something.
adam		Holy shit!
adam		 HELP!!! Help!
lawrence		No one can hear you.  Adam stops pulling at the chain, stands up and looks to Lawrence, his breathing fast and heavy. His voice is not yelling anymore but still just as hysterical.
adam		What the fuck is this?
lawrence		Calm down, just calm down.  Are you hurt?
adam		I dont know...yeah!
lawrence		 Whats your name?
adam		 Whats your name? Whats going on here?
adam		 Ah!  Lawrence looks at Adam with a look that seems to say Im stuck in here with THIS guy? He then glances down at the body.
lawrence		Recognize him?  Adam continues to pull at his chains, does not and will not look at the body, just shakes his head.
adam		 No.
lawrence		 Well, do you have any idea how you got here?
adam		No.
lawrence		Whats the last thing you remember?
adam		Nothing.  So what about you, huh?
lawrence		 I was on my way home from work and uh, I dont remember anything else.
adam		First dead body Ive ever seen. Look different in real life. They dont move.
lawrence		From the looks of these chains, someone didnt want us to go very far either.
adam		Can you see any scars?
lawrence		 What?
adam		Huh? This is what they do man, 
lawrence		 No one has taken your kidneys.
adam		 How can you tell from way over there?
lawrence		 Because youd either be in terrible agony, or youd be dead by now. Trust me.
adam		What are you, a surgeon? 
lawrence		Yeah.  So, you gonna tell me your name, or what?
adam		Adam.
lawrence		 Question is what. (He sees something up on the wall, moves forwards a bit towards it. We see that it is a brand new clock on the wall, ticking away. It reads currently at
adam		What about it?
lawrence		Its brand new. 
adam		 So?
lawrence		 Wait, I think I may be able to reach that door.
lawrence		What is that?  Excuse me.
adam		 Its a tape.
lawrence		Where did you find it?
adam		It was in my pocket.
adam		 It says Play me.
lawrence		 Come on, come on, come on....
adam		 Throw it over here.
adam		Fuck. 
lawrence		 No?  Adam gives up, drops the key onto the floor frustratedly, shaking his head. Thats when he looks over to the body again, and the shot closes up on the hand holding the tape recorder. A small loop handle juts out of the hands grip. Adam stands up, then bends down and picks up the tape on the floor, looking at it. He puts it back down then stretches himself flat out on the floor, trying to reach. Unfortunately, there is still a good three to four feet between him and the body.
lawrence		Use your shirt.
adam		 What?
lawrence		Your shirt.
lawrence		Come on...  Adam tries again; it misses. It is just barely reaching. He pulls the shirt back, gets back up on his knees, aggravated.
adam		It wont work.
lawrence		 Well, look around, there must be something else you can use.
adam		 Theres nothing.
lawrence		 Well there must be something!
lawrence		Come on, you can do it.  Adam throws it, attempting to get the plug through the loop at the end of the tape recorder. He misses.
lawrence		Come on, come on, again.  He tries again and misses. On the third try, however, he gets the plug right through the loop. Lawrence smiles in relief. Adam very slowly pulls it back, dragging the tape recorder along the floor towards him. He picks it up, getting rid of the plug and dropping it and the shirt on the floor. He picks up the tape, pops it in and presses play, holding the tape recorder out a bit so that they can both hear, but keeping his head tilted so he can hear better. A chilling deep, raspy, sinister male voice The Jigsaw Killer comes from the tape. As it speaks, Adams expression is fearful, but the thought How does he know? can be detected.
adam		I dont get it. 
lawrence		 Throw me the player.
adam		 No, you throw me your tape.
lawrence		 Look, were going to have to work together if we want to get out of here. Now just throw it to me.
adam		 Im not going to risk breaking it! You throw me your tape!
jigsaw		...then Alison and Diana will die, Dr. Gordon. And Ill leave you in this room to rot.
adam		 Any idea who that is?
jigsaw		 Let the game begin.
adam		He knows us.
lawrence		Wait a minute. 
adam		 What do you think? Probably a joke, right?
lawrence		Shh, shh! 
jigsaw		 Let the game begin.
lawrence		 Listen...
jigsaw		...Follow your heart.
adam		What the hell does Follow your heart mean?
lawrence		There! Right next to you, on the toilet.
lawrence		 Come on, come on.
adam		Oh man...(he gasps, making gagging sounds, his face turned away from the bowl. He coughs, fishes around for another brief moment, then quickly pulls back, trying to shake some of the shit off of his hand, spitting.
lawrence		 Anything?
adam		 No solids.
lawrence		Take off the lid.  Come on!
adam		I really wish I had checked in there first.
lawrence		Huh.  What is it?
lawrence		Hey!  Mind passing me the other one?
lawrence		 I think I may know whos done this to us.
adam		What did you say? 
lawrence		Its not someone I know personally. Its...just someone I know of.
adam		 Jesus Christ! Tell me, who is it?!
lawrence		The last I heard...the police still hadnt caught him.
lawrence		 And the only reason I know that is because I was a suspect.
lawrence		 Ill start from the beginning.
kerry		This ones not fresh anymore. At least three weeks out. 
kerry		 The door was on a timer. It was unlocked until 3:00. Then it slammed shut. He was given two hours.
tapp		Jigsaw piece. 
lawrence		 The newspapers started calling him the Jigsaw Killer.
lawrence		Actually, technically speaking, hes not really a murderer. He never killed anyone.
lawrence		 He finds ways for his victims to kill themselves.
jigsaw		, so I would be careful with that candle, if I were you...
mark		 Help!!!!!
jigsaw		 just might have their revenge.
kerry		I found something else. Well, two things, actually. 
kerry		 Copy that.
cut to		Hospital room. Lawrence in his white doctors coat along with three blue-scrub clad medical students. A nurse in white stands off to the side. Lawrence is going over the patients charts. He goes over to the x-ray display, pushing the light on to view two x-rays of someones skull. He points to it with his pen as he speaks.
lawrence		Okay. This patient has an inoperable frontal lobe tumor extending across the midline. Started as colon cancer.  The patient has come in for a standard checkup by which we are able to monitor the rate at which his condition is declining.
lawrence		The patient had...
zep		 Hes a very interesting person.
lawrence		Thank you for that information, Zep.  Continuing on, the patient....
intercom		Dr. Gordon, Dr. Lawrence Gordon, please page the operator.
tapp		Dr. Gordon, Im Detective Tapp, this is Detective Sing, City Homicide.  Very impressive.
lawrence		Oh. Thank you, I do my best. 
tapp		Sorry to interrupt you while youre working.
lawrence		Thats fine. Now, how can I help you gentlemen?
tapp		Are you able to tell us where you were between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. last night, Doctor?
lawrence		 Why is it that youre interested?
tapp		Wed like to ask you a few questions about it. For your sake, I think its best if we do it down at the station. Would you like to follow us there?
lawrence		 No, Im afraid thats...thats quite out of the question. I cant just leave, I have work to do. Plus, my wife has the car today, so...
sing		 Oh, thats okay, you can ride with us. Doc.
lawrence		 Im sorry, youll have to tell me again. What is this all about?
tapp		Is this yours, Doctor?  He puts the penlight down on the desk. Lawrence picks it up, a brief oh shit look flashing across his face only to be quickly covered up. He looks at the pen strangely. The two detectives carefully study his reaction. Lawrence looks back up at them.
lawyer		So you have no idea how your penlight showed up at the murder scene?
lawrence		Of course not!
lawyer		I have to ask. What were you doing last night.
lawrence		 I was seeing someone.
lawyer		 Look, if you cant be honest with me...
lawrence		 What am I gonna do?
lawyer		Well, as your lawyer and your friend, my advice to you is to bite the bullet and give them your alibi now. Because no one is going to believe you later.
lawrence		 That was five months ago. He tried to set me up for murder.
sing		Okay. We checked your alibi. It holds up. 
lawrence		Good! Can I go home now?
lawrence		 Id like to help, really, but...
sing		 Well, wed really appreciate it. Shes the only one who made it.
lawrence		 Okay.  Camera moves into the Interrogation room with Amanda, Tapp, and the unidentified man. As Tapp speaks, the camera slowly moves closer over his shoulder and towards Amanda. As we get closer to her, we see long, strange, scar-like markings along each side of her mouth. She is shaken, her eyes distant, never looking anyone, including Tapp, in the eye. It is clear that her mind is still lost somewhere within her nightmare.
tapp		 Amanda...in your own time, tell me the first thing you remember.
amanda		 And metal.
jigsaw		 The device youre wearing is hooked into your upper and lower jaws. When the timer at the back goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open. Think of it like a reverse bear trap. Here, Ill show you.
jigsaw		 There is only one key to open the device. Its in the stomach of your dead cellmate. Look around, Amanda. Know that Im not lying. You better hurry up. Live or die. Make your choice.
amanda		And then I saw the body.  We switch back into Amandas cell. Over her shoulder, we see near the corner the body of a man lying on the floor on his back. Amanda cautiously approaches it, the timer still ticking away, her hands still at the device. She kneels down cautiously next to him. She reaches down and with a shaking hand lifts up his shirt, revealing a large, black question mark drawn on his abdomen. She sobs harder, hunched over him.
amanda		There was a knife.  Back to the cell. Amanda, still leaning over, picks up a small knife next to the body. She slowly brings it up in both of her shaking hands, clutching it. She looks closer at it. A quick shot of the timer shows it to be at 25 seconds now, almost halfway. The camera moves to a shot of the mans face, when...
sing		 Hed been injected with an opiate overdose. He couldnt move or feel much of anything.
lawrence		You mean....he was alive?
sing		 Was.
tapp		What happened after you took it off?
jigsaw		Congratulations. You are still alive. Most people are so ungrateful to be alive. But not you. Not anymore.
tapp		You are, in fact, a drug addict. Isnt that right, Mandy?  Are you grateful, Mandy?
amanda		 He...helped me.  As she starts sniffling and breathing more heavily, Tapp looks over his shoulder into Lawrences room, right in his direction. He may not see him, but he knows hes there. The camera then cuts back to Amanda, who starts sobbing more heavily again. Slowly, the camera moves down into and under the table, fading back into an overhead view of the bathroom where Lawrence and Adam are.
adam		 Are you sure its him?
lawrence		 Yeah, Im sure.
lawrence		 Im in exactly the same situation youre in.
adam		Wrong. 
lawrence		What?
adam		 Its a two-way mirror.
man		 I can see you...
adam		 So thats what this is. Reality TV.
man		 Dont look at me. I cant help you.
adam		Can you hear me in there? Huh? Im having a blast. 
lawrence		 Thats not going to do anything.
adam		You sound like you admire this prick.
lawrence		 Help me find it.
adam		How can you be the calm Doctor Guy when your wife and kid are out there.  He could be doing anything to them right now. Are you thinking about that?
lawrence		 Ive been the last thing I said to my daughter.
alison		Diana, Honey, are you okay?  Diana, Honey, can you hear me?
diana		 Mommy?
alison		Oh, what is it, sweet pea?
diana		 Theres a man in my room.
alison		 Oh Honey, are you sure hes not just hiding in your imagination?
diana		He talked to me.
diana		I want Daddy. Hell get the scary man.
alison		 Alright, if you want. Come on.
alison		Larry, sorry to bother you, but your daughter had a bad dream again.
lawrence		 Just a minute.
alison		She wants you to check her room.
lawrence		 Mmm hmm, mmm hmm, just gotta finish this paragraph.
alison		 You know what sweetie? Ill go check with you.
lawrence		Nope! Im done. 
lawrence		 Theres no one in your room. Theres no such thing as the bad man. Now can you go to sleep?
diana		Im still scared.
lawrence		You are? Give me your tootsie.  all the way home!
diana		I hate that thing.
lawrence		Well I have to go to work, sweetheart. You know what Daddys job is like. Now, come on. 
diana		Youre not going to leave us, are you, Daddy?
lawrence		 No, no sweetheart, I would never do that. Who gave you that idea?
diana		No one.
lawrence		Well its not true, okay?
diana		 Okay.
lawrence		How much do I love you?
lawrence		Thats right, thats right!  Good night, sweetie.
diana		Good night, Daddy.  Lawrence gets up and goes to the door, flipping the lights off. He pauses before he steps out.
lawrence		Tomorrow, Ill read you your favourite story.
diana		 Okay.
lawrence		Okay. 
alison		I dont know how much longer I can do this, Larry.
lawrence		 What, what are you talking about?
alison		 How can you walk through life pretending that youre happy?
lawrence		I am happy.
alison		 Id rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least thered be some passion in it.
lawrence		Would you like to see her? (He reaches into his pocket and takes out his wallet, throws it across the room to Adam, who is sitting with his back against the wall, facing Lawrence. Adam picks up the wallet and opens it. He sees two pictures of Diana, side by side. The one on the left is Diana hugging a dog. The one on the right is a smiling portrait outside somewhere.
adam		Shes beautiful.
lawrence		Thank you.
adam		 You gonna have any more kids?
lawrence		Theres another picture behind the one youre looking at.  Its my favourite one because were all in it together. Someone, usually me, has to hold the camera, which means Im always missing from the photos.
jigsaw		 X Marks the spot. Sometimes you see more with your eyes shut.
adam		Its uh, its not here.
lawrence		 What?
adam		Uh, this photo youre talking about...its not here.
lawrence		 Really? Are you sure?
adam		Yeah. 
lawrence		 He...he mustve taken it. I...
alison		 How can you walk through life pretending that youre happy?
lawrence		I am happy. 
alison		 That is complete bullshit. Id rather you break down and tell me that you hated me. At least thered be some passion in it.
alison		 Just leave.  He looks at her for a moment, searching, then slowly turns away and heads out the door.
voice		Goodnight, little girl. 
alison		Diana!?
alison		Diana! (opens the door and flips on the light, gasps when she sees a figure covered by a blanket looming over Dianas bed. The figure suddenly grabs Diana and she screams, struggling against him. Alison goes for them.
alison		Dont do that! Leave her! Get away from her!
alison		 Keep your motherfucking hands off of my daughter!
voice		 What are you doing in there? Waiting for the doctor? Im waiting for the doctor, too. Hmm.
tapp		I never should have let you go...  Camera pans up to a wall of articles, all about the Jigsaw killings. It moves quickly and zooms in on each headline we see. Jigsaw hunt brings D.A. before Judge, Missing Man discovered at Bizarre Crime Scene screaming is heard then a quick flashback shot of Paul in his cage, first struggling against the wire then hanging dead in his cage Killer Preaching Says Top Cop, Psychopath Teaches Sick Life Lessons, quick shot of Mark going around looking for the code on the walls, with the sound of his screaming over the shot, Escape, Victim Survives Maniacs Game quick flashback footage of Amanda in the interrogation room, then fighting with her mask, and a shot of Lawrence watching and listening to her testimony, Doctor Questioned in Case flash of shots of Lawrence being questioned by the Tapp and Sing and then his Lawyer. It ends on the flashback shot of Tapp looking back at Lawrence through the two-way glass after Amanda tells her story, and the shot slides into a shot of a car pulling up alongside a building.
tapp		 I never shouldve let you go...
lawrence		 Look, Im sorry I cant be of more help to your investigation.
jigsaw		 Hello Amanda. You dont know me, but I know you. I want to play a game. Heres what happens if you lose. Theres a timer at the back of the device youre wearing. When the timer goes off, your mouth will be permanently ripped open.
jigsaw		 Think of it like a reverse bear trap.
jigsaw		 Ill show you...
sing		Hey Tapp?  Tapp doesnt look up, resembles Lawrence in the earlier scene when Alison and Diana came to him to check her room while he was working on his paper.
tapp		Mmm?
sing		Were gonna go down to the Grill, go get a beer. You wanna come?
tapp		I dont think so. Thanks anyway.
jigsaw		 There is only one key...
sing		Ill leave you to have fun up here. 
jigsaw		 Its in the stomach of your dead cellmate.
sing		 Maybe you should find yourself a girlfriend.
jigsaw		 Its in the stomach of your dead cellmate.
tapp		Wait wait wait, Sing!
tapp		Get back here!
sing		What?
tapp		Mmm! 
sing		 What?  Tapp rewinds one second then pauses, holds pencil to the screen to a grafittied wall on the video.
tapp		Remember 118th Street?
sing		 Ah...K2K. That gangs territory was only about four blocks.
tapp		Now listen to this.  They listen with the volume up high. Over the static, the sound of a fire alarm can just barely be heard in the background. They look at each other. Tapp hits stop.
tapp		 We gotta check the records from all the fire emergencies that occurred there in the last two weeks. Go, right now! Mmm!
cut to		Close up of a map, with Sing speaking in a voiceover. As he speaks, theres a brief shot of the two of them sitting over the map, then quick shots of a few black and white photographs of a warehouse, including a close up of a street sign Stygian St.
sing		 You think we have enough for a warrant, though?
tapp		Who said anything about a warrant? 
sing		 Right now?
tapp		Why not?
sing		Yeah, why not? (He grabs his gun, snaps a cartridge into it, grabsup his coat, and quickly follows Tapp.
tapp		 At least well have the cover of darkness.
sing		 Yeah, well, so will anybody else.
tapp		I got you...  They continue on, moving into a room separated with a chain link fence. There is a slightly raised platform, going along part of the wall, with a few steps leading up on either side. Tapp goes up the steps. On the raised area are some tables covered in heavy red cloth. Tapp points to one, reaches down, and pulls back the covering. He reveals a small diorama of the bathroom scene where Adam and Lawrence dolls, complete with the body, dolls representing each of them.
tapp		What the hell is this?....... Oh shit...
sing		Oh fuck!  They both go over and stand on either side of it, taking one end of the red cloth whipping it off. Underneath is a man tied to a chair with duct tape over his mouth, held in place by a manacle around his neck. A contraption on the chair holds two power drills about six inches from either side of his head, pointed directly at his temples. His eyes wide, he moans through his tape at the detectives.
tapp		 Wait Sing!
sing		 What?
tapp		 Lets see what hes gonna do.
sing		Why? Weve fucking got him.  Tapp however, having studied this guy for so long, wants to get a good look at him before hes captured, see him in his element.
tapp		We dont know what he looks like. Lets see what hes gonna do.
sing		 No fucking way!
tapp		Sing, Sing! 
sing		 Fuck that. Im gonna take him.
tapp		Sing!
sing		What the fuck? Shit!
tapp		Wait Sing, listen.
jigsaw		Awake already, Jeff? I need more powerful tranquilizers next time.  Dont cry. Ive given your life a purpose. Youre a test subject for something greater than yourself.
sing		Freeze! Police!
tapp		Hold it right there! Dont move!
sing		Put your fucking hands in the air!
jigsaw		Now youll make a choice.  In 20 seconds, the life of this man will be ended.
tapp		Shut up and get down here!
sing		 What did you do? Turn it off!
tapp		Sing, stop that thing! Im taking this bastard down.  Move!
sing		 How do you turn it off?!
tapp		Tell him how to stop it!
jigsaw		One key will unlock it.
sing		 Where is it?!
jigsaw		Its in the box.
sing		Box!  Fuck! Which key, which key?!
tapp		Tell him which key it is!
jigsaw		 Time is running out.
tapp		Shut up and get down here right now, asshole!
jigsaw		Whats more important to you Officer, arresting me or the life of another human being?
tapp		Get down on your knees!
sing		Jesus! Tapp! Tapp!
tapp		 Sick bastard.
jigsaw		Yes, I am sick, Officer.
sing		 Tapp! Its like, theres a hundred keys in here!
jigsaw		Sick from the disease eating away at me inside. Sick of people who dont appreciate their blessings. Sick of those who scoff at the suffering of others.
sing		 No, no! Tapp! Shit!
sing		 Ill be back, okay? Ill be back.
sing		 Freeze or Ill shoot!  Jigsaw continues moving, so Sing fires. He hits, and Jigsaw goes down. Sing pauses, waiting to see if he gets back up. Jigsaw doesnt move, so Sing cocks the gun again and starts to slowly move forward towards him. Cut to a shot of Tapp as he struggles to his feet and starts towards the stairs to follow Sing.
tapp		 Right, Sing? Right? Were gonna close it, Sing.
lawrence		X Marks the spot... What are you doing over there?
lawrence		 Excuse me?
adam		 Just because Im stuck in this room with you doesnt mean I have to report to you every ten seconds.
lawrence		 I really dont see the point in us not helping one another.
adam		well what do you want me to do? Im on a leash.
lawrence		Thats exactly why we need to talk. We need to think!
adam		I am thinking!
lawrence		 Well then dont keep me in the dark about what youre thinking!
adam		Turn off the lights.
lawrence		What?
adam		 Turn them off now, please!
lawrence		 Why?
adam		 Just turn them off for a second!
adam		Jesus, behind you!
lawrence		 How come we didnt see that before?
adam		The lights in here hadnt charged it. It must be glow in the dark paint or something.
adam		 Open it!
lawrence		 The key, the one from my envelope. Where is it?
adam		 Cell phone. The most beautiful invention on this planet!
adam		Make that second most beautiful invention!  Give me that.
lawrence		Are you joking? Youre gonna put something we found in this room in your mouth?
adam		 I dont care, I really dont. Give me one of those.
jigsaw		 The cigarettes are harmless, I promise. Smoking is only poisonous when it ends in bloodshed. Think about this - you dont need a gun to kill Adam.
adam		 May I please have a cigarette?
lawrence		 Wait a minute...this has happened before.
lawrence		 How did you know to turn off the lights?
adam		Who cares? It worked.
lawrence		Yeah, but how did you know?
lawrence		 Instinct?
adam		Yeah.
lawrence		You know what?  Youre a terrible liar.
adam		 You say that like you know me.
lawrence		 What else arent you telling me?
adam		 who was a feminist vegan punk, broke up with me because she thought I was too angry. Uh, I havent told you that one of my toenails is slightly...
lawrence		 Just stop it. You knew to turn off these lights.
adam		 What-ever.
lawrence		 Im dealing with a juvenile.
adam		 You wanna know?
lawrence		 Yeah!  Adam leans down and reaches into the bathtub, pulls out and holds up the picture of Alison and Diana.
lawrence		 W...where did you get this?
adam		 It was in your wallet, behind the photo of your daughter.
lawrence		W...why didnt you show me this before?
adam		I couldnt. 
lawrence		What are you doing to them you bastard?! 
jigsaw		, the only thing left to do is shoot yourself.
adam		What are you doing?  Lawrence goes to the light, looks at the camera, suddenly flips off the lights. We see a shot of Zep startling when the lights go out on the monitor, then we go back to the darkened bathroom.
adam		Hey! What the hell are you doing?
lawrence		 Adam, listen to me. I want you to play along with me on this.
lawrence		You got that? (he turns the lights back on, both of them again wincing at the bright light. Lawrence glances at the surveillance camera, then looks to Adam.
lawrence		 So you uh, still want that cigarette?
adam		Um...yeah, sure.  Lawrence makes a show of reaching into the box where the poisoned cigarette is, but takes the other un-dipped one instead. He throws it to Adam, who reaches down and picks it up from where it lands. Lawrence throws the lighter as well. Adam puts the cigarette between his lips and reaches down, picking up the lighter. He glances over at Lawrence, who watches him intently. Adam just shrugs then lights up. He takes a long drag, then exhales in a sigh of relief and with a smile. He takes another drag then suddenly freezes, his head jerking and a strange gurgling sound coming from his throat. His head jerks more then the rest of his body, his eyes widening. His hand drops the cigarette and goes to his throat as he turns, still jerky and making a strange, almost squeaky choking sound in his throat. The sound grows louder as he falls to his knees, then back a bit, his left arm held out in front of him dramatically. He falls backwards onto the floor, twitching some more, still choking. He lets out a long cough, suddenly stops jerking, and closes his eyes. The death in its entirety is very, very fake.
lawrence		 Now wheres my family?! Where are they?!
adam		 Jesus Christ!!
lawrence		 What?
adam		 I just got electrocuted!
lawrence		What?  That was our way out!
adam		 Get this thing off me! Get it off!
lawrence		 Stop acting!
adam		 You think I would make that up just to mess up your stupid fucking charade?
lawrence		 Ah, Damn it!!
adam		 I remember how I got here.
adam		Great.  Suddenly, he hears something move outside the door, somewhere in his apartment. On alert, he listens. He looks down and picks up his camera, slinging it around his neck and holding it out in front of him. He opens the creaky door into his also pitch-black apartment. He takes a few steps forward, speaks nervously, but trying to be brave.
adam		Is someone there? 
adam		 What the...
adam		Who is that?! Whos in there?! 
lawrence		 Who is this?
diana		 Daddy?
lawrence		Diana? 
diana		Daddy, is that you? 
diana		 Im scared, Daddy.
lawrence		 Dont worry honey, everythings going to be okay. Wheres Mommy?
diana		Shes here with me.
lawrence		 Let me talk to her sweetie, okay? Put Mommy on.
diana		The bad man from my room is here. He has us tied up and he has a gun.
lawrence		W...what man?
diana		Please come home Daddy! 
lawrence		Hello? Hello? Diana?  Zep pushes some of Alisons hair behind her ear with the barrel of the gun.
lawrence		 Diana! Diana!
alison		Larry?
lawrence		Ally? Is that you? 
alison		Is Adam there?
lawrence		 How do you know? Ally, what is going on?
adam		 Are they okay?
lawrence		 My wife, she uh, she mentioned your name.
adam		 What did she say?
lawrence		 She told me...not to believe you.
lawrence		 Who are you?
adam		 You know who I am.
lawrence		 Stop the lies! Youre a liar! I need to know the truth!
adam		 What did you do last night, Lawrence? Work at a hospital? Saving sick children? You told me that after you left your house last night, you went to work at a hospital.
lawrence		 Thats because its the truth.
adam		 You dont recall getting your picture taken in that parking lot?
adam		I can prove that you didnt go anywhere near a hospital last night. 
lawrence		 But...why?
adam		You wanna know what I do? I get paid to take pictures of rich guys like you who go to seedy, out-of-the-way motels to fuck their secretaries. 
lawrence		 Youve uh, had these with you the whole time?
adam		I found them, in there  I dont know how they got there.
adam		 Aww, face it, Larry, were both bulls hitters. But my camera isnt. It doesnt know how to lie. It only shows you whats put right in front of it. Just out of curiosity, what did you do in that motel room? You got out of there pretty fast.
lawrence		Why did you um, deem it necessary to page me when you knew I was at home?
carla		I didnt know if you were going to make it. 
lawrence		 You cant do that.
carla		Its not like I know the rules for this sort of stuff.  Whats wrong, Dr. Gordon?
lawrence		 Look, it was wrong for me to makes you come here.
carla		 But I thought we-
lawrence		-Please. 
lawrence		You tell anyone you were here?
carla		No. 
lawrence		For me?  Hello?
voice		I know what youre doing...Doctor.
lawrence		I- 
lawrence		 I have to go.
carla		What happened?
lawrence		Ive got to go. (He picks up his briefcase from the chair, and heads out the door.
lawrence		Who was it?
adam		Who was what?
lawrence		The person who paid you to follow me, who was it?
adam		 He calls himself Bob and he gives me the money up front. Two hundred bucks a night. If Id have known I was gonna end up here, I wouldve asked for a hell of a lot more.
lawrence		 What does that mean? Does that mean you saw what happened to me?
adam		 and went straight home to develop the. Next thing I know Im chained to a pipe in some prehistoric bathroom, staring at the guy Ive been taking shots of all night.
lawrence		 Clearly, whoever paid you to take the pictures of me is the one who put is in here.
adam		 Maybe.
lawrence		Maybe? What do you mean maybe? Of course it is! What did he look like?
lawrence		Was he tall, was he skinny, obese, what?
adam		I dont take notes about his appearance. 
lawrence		 You must remember something about him.
adam		I cant. 
lawrence		Youre telling me you dont remember a thing about the guy?
adam		I told you, I- 
lawrence		 Oh for fucks sake! I give up!
lawrence		Tapp!  Detective Tapp!
adam		Whoa, the guy who paid me to take these photos was not a cop.
lawrence		No, no, he was discharged from the police force.  You took money from him to invade my privacy. How could you do that?
adam		 Call it my need to eat.
adam		Oh really? Obviously this cop thinks youre the one behind it all.
adam		 What are you more pissed off about? The fact that I took some shots of you or the fact that I took some shots of you while you were cheating on your wife?
lawrence		I did not cheat on her!!!
adam		What do you care what I think anyway? I dont give a crap if you covered yourself in peanut butter and had a 15-hooker gang bang!
alison		Sweetheart, are you okay? 
adam		Hey, was there someone else at your house last night besides your wife and daughter?
lawrence		 No.
lawrence		 Zep. You perverted little psychopath. Im gonna take great pleasure in seeing you pay for this! You bastard fuck!
adam		Look. (Lawrence momentarily breaks from his Zep rage, looks up. The clock reads
diana		 Mommy help me!  Alison continues to untie her. Cut to Zep, getting up from his chair, turning to go into the bedroom. Alison hears him moving near, sees his form through the frosted glass doors. She quickly replaces Dianas gag and then her own, and resumes her position with her hands behind her back just as the doors open and Zep steps into the room. He looks down at them, raises his eyebrows slightly. He seems to have gotten himself together, ready to just do what has to be done. He takes the gun from his belt and leans down next to Alison. He looks at her with wide eyes, shakes his head sadly. He speaks calmly.
zep		Dr. Gordons time is up. Now Ive gotta do what Ive gotta do, and...Im afraid it has to be you that tells him he failed. 
lawrence		 I know its you, you son of a bitch!
alison		Larry?
lawrence		 Ally?
alison		 You failed.
lawrence		 Hello? Hello?
alison		Dont move, stay on the ground. Give me the phone. Give it to me!  Larry?
lawrence		Ally! Honey, are you all right?
alison		No! No were not... Get down! Larry, where are you?
lawrence		 I dont know. Im being held captive in a room somewhere.
alison		 What? What are you talking about?
lawrence		 Im so sorry, Ally.
lawrence		 Im sorry for everything. Its my fault. Please forgive me. Ive always been happy with you.
diana		 Mommy!  Alison turns to look at Diana when she calls her, and Zep seizes the moment. He leaps up and grabs the gun from her hand, and they start struggling with it. Diana starts screaming. Lawrence, on his end, hears the screaming and sounds of a struggle. In wrestling for the gun a shot is let off, and Diana continues to scream.
lawrence		 Ally!  Cut to a shot of static on Tapps TV set, then Tapp waking up to the sound of gunfire. He quickly looks over to the window.
diana		Mommy, help me!
tapp		Freeze!  Zep turns and sees him, fires a shot in his direction but doesnt hit. Tapp fires back and skims the top of Zeps head. Zep clutches the surface wound, fires back. Cut back to Lawrence on the phone, hearing only his daughter screaming and gunshots. He sobs, collapsing forward onto the floor, crying out Oh no. Adam watches him, can only imagine what hes hearing.
tapp		 What the fuck?
zep		Mrs. Gordon?  Im gonna kill your husband now, Mrs. Gordon. (He stands up a bit straighter and hobbles over to the computer station, taking keys from the desk and then hobbling down the hall and out the door. We see Tapp groaning, starting to get up. Zep glances over and sees Tapp get to his feet, but quickly hobbles to the doorway and out the door. Tapp starts to follow, just a we bit dazed from the hit. He empties his gun cartridge and replaces it, then runs towards the door, screaming.
adam		Lawrence!  Lawrence, get up!
cut to		Car Chase! Zep is in the lead, with Tapp in hot pursuit behind him. They race through the streets as fast as they can.
adam		 Oh, thank God! I thought you were dead!
lawrence		 He...he electrocuted me...
adam		I told you! The same thing happened to me, see? I wasnt lying, see?
lawrence		 FUCK THIS SHIT!!  Back in the bathroom, Lawrence continues to grunt and struggle with his chain. Suddenly the phone rings and he turns. He quickly moves to get it, but it is out of reach. He lays flat on the floor, just a foot away from it, trying desperately to grab it.
lawrence		No!!!! 
adam		 Lawrence, I have a family too! I dont see them, thats my mistake. Its a mistake Id like to fix!
tapp		Im gonna kill you you sick asshole!
adam		 Lawrence, stop it!
adam		 Lawrence, please calm down! Theres a way out of here, theres a way out!
adam		Lawrence! No! Oh my God! What are you doing?!
adam		What are you...
adam		Oh my God! Oh my God! Lawrence dont!  Lawrence, its not me who did this to you!
lawrence		 You have to die.
adam		 No, I want to live!
lawrence		 Im sorry...
adam		I want to live!
lawrence		My family...
lawrence		Ive done it! Now show them to me! 
neighbor		 Thank you very much, Officer.
alison		 Larry?
neighbor		 Did you get through to him?
alison		Theres still no answer.
neighbor		 Its all right. Ive called the police. Everythings okay.
lawrence		You bastard! Ill fucking kill you!  Ill fucking kill you! You fucking bastard! Ill fucking kill you! Ill fucking kill you!
zep		Youre too late.
lawrence		 Why?
zep		Its the rules.
lawrence		 Youre just wounded in the shoulder. I have to go and get help.
adam		 Dont leave me! No!
adam		No!!  Lawrence! Lawrence!
adam		 Key...key...  He starts going through Zeps pockets, patting him down. He finds Zeps wallet, opens it and feels through it; there s nothing of value to him right now. He tosses it down. He continues feeling for something, suddenly feels something in Zerps coat pocket. His eyes widen as he reaches in, wincing from the pain in his shoulder. He pulls out a tape recorder. He stares at it, his eyes and mouth starting to widen. He glances down at Zep, then at the tape recorder. Sitting up a bit more, he presses play. It is Jigsaws voice.
john		The key to that chain is in the bathtub.
johns voice		Sick of people who dont appreciate their blessings. Shot of Lawrence with Diana, checking his beeper, on his computer ignoring Diana and Alison, trying to kiss Alison as she pulls away.
john		 I want to play a game.
john		 Not anymore.
john		GAME OVER.  John slams the door shut the rest of the way, and we are left in darkness with the sound of Adam screaming No! Dont!!! over and over and crying. The screams fade out, and is replaced by the ending titles and instrumental music.
****Dialogues from script :Scarface.txt****

montana		He's    dead.        He    died.  Somewhere....
voice #1		Mother? TONY She's     dead     too. CONTINUED       .
tony		 Nobody.   Everybody's            dead. NO.
man #i		Y'ever      been     in     jail, Tony?
tony		Me    jail?     No    way. We now reveal three men in civilian clothing in the                                  dark afternoon light of the little room. Actually it's                                   a plywood office somewhere in the processing hall and                                   we hear the din from the hall over the question and answer.                                    Two of the men sit around a desk, the Third Man stands in                                  a corner, staring at Tony, the most authoritative-looking of                                  the three. MAN #l  You       been in a mental hospital,                Tony?
tony		 Yeah,      in the boat coming             over.
man #1		How 'bout homosexuality,                  Tony? You. like men, y'like to dress                  up like a woman? TONY  fuck's wrong with this guy, what's he                  think I am?
man #2		Just       answer     the    questions,     Tony. The      voices        of   the   men       remain   cool    and     collected    throughout.
man #1		Arrested?           Vagrancy? Marijuana?
tony		.             Never.       Nothing. NO        ..NO. i His eye movements are rapid  and he does a lot of touching -- objects -- lightly with the tips of the fingers. Man #3 is stepping forward out of the shadows.
man #3		So       where'd    you     get the     beauty     scar?
tony     ?'		This?.. 
man #3		And      this? He holds up Tony's hand and indicates the tattoo between                     the thumb and second finger -- a heart with the word "Madre" scaled through it.
tony		Oh       that     was   for    my sweetheart.
tony		Hey, so I was in the can once for buying dollars. Big deal.
tony		Some     Canadian   tourist....
man #3		What'd     you mug him first?      Get   him outta     here! 
tony		so I fuck Castro, what's it to Hey, you? You a Communist or something? How would you like it they tell you all the time what to think, what to do, you wanna be like a sheep, like everybody else. Baa baa? Puta!      You want a stoolie on every block? You wanna work eight hours a day and you never own nothing? I ate octopus three times a day, fucking octopus is coming out my ears, fuckin' Russian shoes are eating through my feet. Whaddaya want? You want me to stay there? Hey, I'm no little whore, I'm no stinking thief! I'm Tony Montana and I'm a political prisoner here from Cuba and I want my fucking 'Human Rights' just like President Jimmy Carter says, okay?... Silence.                                                                     7- There's a certain eloquence to the man`s plea              but it falls   on disbelieving ears. One of them chuckles.
man #3		 I.. 'Freedomtown.'    Let them      take   a look at him.    A long look. CONTINUED
tony		You know if     you hadn't opened your mouth, they     woulda thought you were a horse.  I      told you to tell them you was cured. had TB and
tony		You    did nothing      right.     I shoulda      left you    in Cuba.
we're watching		. . . the face of Bogart -- unshaven, paranoid. a badly damaged 16 mm print of The Treasure of the Sierra - Madre.     It's near the end of the film and he's alone, talking to himself just before the bandits get him....
bogart		What a thing. Conscience.    Conscience. Xf you believe you've got a conscience, 'it`ll pester you to death.   But if you don't believe you've got one, what can it do to you? Makes me sick so much talking and fussing about nonsense. Time to go to sleep. 
tony		That Bogart, Chico, hunh? CONTINUED
tony		That gold dust blowing in the wind. Y'see Manny, he's always looking over his shoulder. Hunh?   Like me.... He hunches, darting exaggerated looks over his shoulder, imitating Bogart. Manny laughs. In his black shirt with zig-zag dots and colors and the baggy pants and sunglasses, Tony's starting to look American. He's even got himself a pop button pinned to his shirt that says "Fuck Off and Die." And hi6 English rolls faster off his tongue, his confidence more pronounced. TONY I . . don't    trust   nobody.
tony		Assholes,       I go crazy.      You   Manny,   I never go crazy with you. You're like my brother, I love you!
chi-chi		You're       not   kidding.   It           talks. As they chatter, Tony moves on with a movement of the head for Manny.  "Later."
transvestite		 What about you sugar -- you wanna party?
tony		 Yeah     with whose cock,                honey?
angel		Go    fuck            yourself,     Tony.
tony		What's    he    hear   I    don't      hear.
tony		Oh    yeah?
tony		You worry too much, mi hermano.  Like the man says, 'when you got 'em by the balls, their hearts and minds gonna follow' --hunh? Tony     winks    and   walks   off.
tony		 'Oh yeah America! Love-to          love      you baby, oh yeah!'
tony		 Aw fuck.... The game, leaving      him   behind,   shifts   downfield.
continued		12 12 Angel is walking towards them.       Tony signals him.
15		REFUGEES 15
guards		16
17		SEVERAL     REFUGEES 17
18		POLICE DOGS on chains are glimpsed.
tony		 See    that old guy over            there?
tony		Millionaire.
tony		Go over there. Ask him gimme some money.  He'll give you the silver right outta his pants -- that's America man, that's what they do here.
tony		Hey     baby   what   you say?       
tony		...the fuck was #at?
tony		 Okay Rober Retfor,               strut your stuff. The    blonde    has     paused    to     look    in   a    shop    window.
tony		Pobre hijo de puta -- you got                      it all mixed up. This country first                       you gotta get the money, then you                      get the power and when you got the power, then you get the women                      -- and then, Chico, you got the world                      by the balls. Por 10s conjones.
(xl		Don't push men, my friends                   gonna take care of everything.
cut   to        (xl		28     LITTLE      HAVANA    RESTAURANT - LITTLEHAVANA                 - NIGHT         28 on   Southwest       8th        Street.    nCalle   Ocho".... The parking lot is crammed with Moby Dick-size cars and casual Cubans in sports clothes bunched in conversations around their wheels or at the ice cream stand.
cut to		29   INT./EXT. LITTLE HAVANA RESTAURANT - NIGHT - HOURS LATER we are looking through a cubbyhole at the diners.  Young Cuban guys with chiquitas drift in with their fancy clothes, diamonds and -- the mark of status -- large bodyguards. They're out front with the flash, shaking hands with friends, kissing, talking loud, familiar with the waitresses. Staring through the smeared window enrapt are Tony and M--q, wiping the sweat off their faces with towels.
tony		...five hundred dollars -- shit! What'd I do for you guys in the slammer, hunh?   What was the Rebenga hit -- game of dominoes or somethin'? You're talkin' to important guys here.
tony		Shaddup!
omar		Guy's     a    lunatic,    let's        go.
waldo		What    about     them     Indians        ---                                (Xl He     buys    it, somewhat     amused. The    idea   crosses       Omar's   mind, OMAR Yeah.. . .                                                                    (Xl CONTINUED
tony		You kidding. OMAR ...There's a bunch of Columbians.                 (Xl Flying in Friday. New guys. They say they got two keys for us for openers.   Pure coke. In a motel over in Miami Beach.  I want you to go over there, and if it's what they say it is, pay 'em and bring it back. You do that, you'll make five grand.
tony		So what does it matter?
tony		So nothin'.   I just don't like fuckin' Columbians that's what. They're animals!
cook		 Where you greasers going,    hunh,   I   got plenty of plates here. TONY Wash         yourself. I just retired. `em
cook		 What the fuck you gonna do!
tony		Look after my investments.
cut to		EXT. MIAMI 3EACH - DAY - MOVING SHOT 31                                                                31 The somewhat run-down, art-deco cheaper hotels of South Miami Beach. The porches are filled with senior citizens playing cards, reading papers, staring, slowly walking the street. The ramshackle sedan, jammed with Tony and his gang, rattles past. It's a beaten-up black and blue Monte Carlo, jacked up on its springs with dune buggy threads and needing paint.   You'd arrest these guys on sight.
chi-c?xi		 Whatta        you crazy? She's 103 year6 old.
tony		 Drive,       willya.
angel		 Ah, it's okay.  I just y'know forgot to make an offering.  I was supposed to go by the madrina today.
23-a		#02154 Rev. 11/22/82
tony		Let's    go.... CUT   TO
toad		Hey, oye amigo.... Spreading his arms in such a fashion to indicate he's clean.
tony		What fuckin' difference does it make where I'm from? TOAD I like to get to know who I do business with. It's like he's stalling for time. The Lizard has made a move somewhere off-center andis now sitting on the bed, coiled and always watching.
tony		You get to know me when you start doing business and not fucking around, Hector. TOAD Hey I'm just a friendly guy, maybe you don't.... TONY Okay, what's the stall here?     Your guy late or something?
tony		Frog face, you just fucked up.     You steal from me, you're dead. Toad shrugs, he couldn't care less.
toad		Yeah, okay, you gonna give me the cash or am I gonna kill your brother first?  'Fore I kill you? TONY Try sticking your head up your ass. See if it fits. Toad, completing the body search, rips out the stiletto taped to the small of Tony's back. As he mutters something in hard Columbian slang to the two kids who shove Angel into the bathroom, producing strands of thick rope. Even more worrisome is the chainsaw that the Lizard now pull6 out of the suitcase under the bed.  Toad begin6 assembling it as Lizard, still covering Tonywith her gun, completes the deadpan process by turning up the volume on the television set. The news, not 50 ironically in Miami, is about a drug-related triple-homicide.
cut to:		EXT. SUN-RRY MOTEL - DAY 37                                                                   37 Chi-Chi sitting at the wheel of the sedan, parked across the street. Manny paces outside the car, glances.
cut        to		40   INT.     TOAD'S    MOTEL      ROOM   -    DAY                                                             40 Angel hangs suspended on the ropes from the top of the shower curtain bar, his legs straddling the edge of the bathtub.   Toad slaps a tape over his mouth.
toad		 You watch what happens to your friend okay?  If you don't want this to happen to you, you get the money.
toad		Now the leg, hunh? CONTINUED
tony		Go       fuck      yourself. Toad's      eyes     narrow        meanly.
tony		I   got him!
tony		 Your'turn,   cabron!... The     Toad   whips         around     to    the     voice, eyes          stark       with        terror. Tony      empties      the     clip     into    the     Toad,       blowing       hiin      apart. The bystanders just                   stare, stunned           by    the      ferocity.            Then an old lady faints. The Toad's body lying awkwardly arched in the gutter, Tony turns and with a passing disinterested glimpse at his audience, calmly walks back into the motel; the distance and the light sufficient to conceal Tony's possible identi- fication. CUT            TO      '
tony		Manny, you okay? Manny nods. TONY Chi-Chi,   get the car.      Fast! CHI-CHI Si!                                                            (Xl 48   INT. TOAD'S MOTEL ROOM                                                         48 Tony    strides into the shambles of Room 9, past the bodies and    busted furniture to the suitcase on the bed from which the    Lizard pulled the chainsaw. The TV news still plays in the    corner. stacks    of.cocaine. Inside    are    several   kilo-sized
tony		YOU do that, Omar, you do that. OMAR'S          VOICE You    got    the     money?
tony		i Yeah -- - I got the yeyo. and
omar's voice		You    got    the     yeyo? Bring it here.
tony		E'uck you.   I'm taking it                     to   the    boss myself.    Not you. Me. - OMAR s VOICE Okay, okay.  All right.   Frank's gonna  wanna see you anyway. Look, meet me tonight at Hector's at eight. TONY Hey    Omar....
omar's        voice		Yeah? TONY That    was    some    pick up         you      sent      us    on. Pause.
omar's          voice		What's       that     mean?
lopez		How ya doing, Tony? Glad to meet you.  How 'bout a drink?
tony		Mr. Lopez... real          pleasure.
lopez		Call me Frank, Tony.  Everybody calls me Frank. My Little League team, even the prosecutors 'round town, they all call me Frank.
tony		Okay      Frank. Frank    shakes      hands     with     Manny.
lopez		Howya     doing?
tony		Ray, he was with us on the Manny job.
lopez		                                            (Xl I   hear you       caught one? Manny    shrugs, works           his   arm, showing   us   the   wound    doesn't    (Xl bother him too much. CONTINUED
lopez		Not to mention of course the nice job you guys did for me on that Commie sonufabitch Emilio Rebenga.
tony		You    don't        have    to mention         it.   That was    fun. LOPEZ  Scotch?    Gin? Rum?
tony		Gin's    fine. LOPEZ  Yeah, .I need a guy with steel in his balls.    I need him close to,me, a guy like you Tony -- and your compadre here.
tony		Yeah..    .well.
tony		two keys. .that's i t .         That' s the Angel died `cause of this shit. And here's the money.  It's my gift to you -- from me.                                   (Xl
lopez		It's too bad about your friend, Tony, if people'd do business the right way, there'd be no fuckups like this.... He   glances    hard     at     Omar    who     squirms. CONTINUED
lopez		Don't think I don't appreciate this gesture, Tony.  You find in this business, you stay loyal you move up and you move up fast.   Salud! They     drink     the   toast.    With     their    eyes.
lopez		Then you find out your biggest head- ache's not bringing in the stuff but figuring out what to do with all the goddamn cash.  TONY Yeah,   I hope I have that,problem                some day.
lopez		Where the hell's Elirira?             Go get her, will you, Ernie? The    big       bodyguard     exits     smoothly.
lopez		 The broad spends half her                 life dressing, the other half                  undressing.
tony		I guess       you gotta catch       her    in   the middle,       hunh? / Lopez     laughs. LOPEZ Yeah.  When she's not looking.- What do you say guys, to a little food? 
tony		Yeah    sure, I       could eat a horse. ERNIE Here   she    comes,    Mr. Lopez.
alternative		LOPEZ                                LOPEZ Oooh   sweetheart, you look           Where you been baby, it's like   a millions bucks.              ten o'clock, I'm hungry. She doesn't answer, her eyes                    ELVIRA flicking   disinterestedly            You're always hungry, you over Tony and Manny, knowing          should try starving. what the evening's going to be and not too happy about            Lopez       laughs. it.
lopez		- I want you to meet a friend of mine. Tony Montana...Elvira...Manny Ribera.
elvira		Hello.
tony		Uh...hi.
elvira		I assume we're going to be a               fivesome. Where are we having dinner?
frank		Oh, I thought     we'd eat     at   the Babylon. - 1
elvira		Again?  If anyone wanted to assassinate you, you wouldn't be too hard to find.
elvira		Come    on,   Frank,   let's go. Tracking    a      cool, polished      hauteur, she    exits   the   apartment. a Lopez,     after        pause, snaps at his men.
lopez		let's   go. Okay, CUT   TO 54   EXT. THE BABYLON CLUB - NIGXT                                                     54 .We know this is no workingman's dive when Lopez piles them out of his Rolls, and the carhops are moving Bugattis, Lamberghinis and Corniches   in a long snaking line down the driveway.    Single girls in high-collared silver lame jumpsuits with cinched waists, prowl like big glistening tents back and forth across the entry doors, rich young coiffed playboys in their Porsches honking their horns in appreciation.   Brain drain.
chick		You    got    a   buck?
chick		You check out on this and we'll talk about other things.
lopez		That guy there, in the purple shirt -- Gaspar  Gomez. Bad news.   Stone killer there ever was one.   Stay away. Their point of view -- Gaspar             Gomez at a table with another guy and gorgeous woman.
lopez		...the     fat guy,    with the chicas is Nacho      Contreras   -- El Gordo. Wouldn't know     it to look     at him but he's got more     cash than     anybody in here. A real      haza.... Their point of view -- El Gordo is fat, dressed like a cheap slob and playing up to a bunch of chicas.
lopez		. ..you    know what a haza is, Tony?
tony		'Haza'?    No   Frank, what's     a    haza? LOPEZ It's Yiddish for pig.   It's a guy he's got more'n what he needs, so he don't fly straight anymore, y'know. That's the problem in this business, Tony, there's too many 'hazas' and they're the ones you got to watch out for.   If they can fuck you outta an extra dime, they'll rip you and flip you and then fuck you with a stick for the pure pleasure of it. See it all comes down to one thing, Tony boy, never forget it!   Lesson number one -- don't under- estimate the other guy's greed.
elvira		Lesson number two -- don't            get    high on your own supply. CONTINuEiD
lopez		Well,        Tony?
tony		Hey, yeah, you're not kidding, this is good stuff, Frank. check. Lopez     laughs, likes             the     kid, tweaks          him   on    the
lopez		 Yeah, get you some new clothes, some $500 suits, you'll look real sharp. I'd like you and your boys to handle some stuff for me, Tony, work with Omar here. We're doing something big next month. Running a string of mules out of Columbia. You do good on that, there'll be other things. away. Omar     doesn't      like     it     but     glances
tony		Hey, that            sounds       like   fun,       Frank. Thanks. The     music    shifts       to     slow        dancing.
elvira		away  SO, you want to dance, Frank or you want to sit here and have a heart attack? LOPEZ I'd rather have a heart He-     dance? attack. CONTINUED
elvira		 How     about you? nods sure, looks Tony                                 at    his   boss.
lopez		 Go on! They     go.
omar		I think he's a fucking                peasant.
lopez		Yeah -- but you get guys like that on your side, they break their backs for     you.
cut    to		59   INT. BABYLON CLUB DANCE FLOOR - NIGHT                                                      59 Tony and Elvira are dancing semiclose to a slow Billy Joel dance tune. Be's no great shakes as a dancer, leaden in the legs and shoulders.
tony		...so what's           your name,          Elvira what?
tony		Elvira St. James.  Sounds like a nun or something.  So where you from? He bumps into an elderly couple dancing, ignores them.
elvira		Baltimore....
tony		Baltimore?           Where's         that?
elvira		Look, it doesn't really matter. I'm getting a headache.
tony		Just   trying        to    be friendly.
elvira		I've   got enough friends -- and I don't need   another one, 'specially one who just   got off the banana boat. He   makes   a    point     of    looking      at   her.
tony		Hey, I didn't             come over on no          banana boat.  I'm a              political refugee        here.
elvira		Oh, part        of   the    Cuban crime          wave? Tony, pissed, bangs once more into the elderly couple. The man stops dancing, looks at him exasperated but Tony doesn't see.
tony		Whatta you talking crazy                  for, whatsa matter with.you?
elvira		 .. .I'm sorry.   I didn't           know you were so sensitive about               your diplo- matic status.
elvira		You know you're even stupider than you look.   Let me give you a crash course, Jose whatever your name is, so you know what you're doing around here.
tony		 Now you're talking to me, baby!
elvira		First who, where, why and how I fuck is none of your business, second don't call me 'baby,' I'm not your baby and last, even if I was blind, desperate, starved and begging for it on a desert island, you'd be the last thing I'd ever fuck.   You got the picture now -- so fuck off. . TONY thataway. Hey, She   whips       off     the     floor,   pissed.   He    watches   her,   amused.
cut   to		60                                                                                            60 thru   OMITTED                                                                               thm 62                                                                                            62
tony		That     chick      he's    with...she     loves     me.
tony		The    eyes,     Manny     -- they      don't   lie.
tony		What are you kidding -- he's soft. I seen it in his face -- booze and a cuncha tells him what to do. Pause. .~ 63-A                                                                              63-A and    OMITTED                                                                     and 64                                                                                 64 (Xl CUT   TO 65     EXT. TONY'S MOTHER'S HOUSE - SOUTHWEST MIAMI - LATE DAY                     65 The house, bathed by a torpid setting sun amicable to lizards and Spanish moss, sits undistinguished and without shielding trees in the midst of a lower middle class neighborhood with look-alike yards and streets without people. . 66     INT. TONY'S CADILLAC SEDAN - SIMULTANEOUS DAY                               66 From his battered Monte Carlo across the curb, Tony, spruced up and nervous in a new suit, gets out carrying a bag of gifts.  Manny is at the wheel, curious.
tony		Be     back    in   an     hour okay. CONTINUED
tony		. ..yeah ve gotta make sore moves on our own Xanny, we never gcnna score the i3ig Xoney vorking for Frank.
tony		Yeah -- cause he buys you a suit?    You thinkin' like a chicker,h,ead again -            -   A           -- mNNY Frank*= got a.n organization
tow		Organizaticn?               I got more brains than Omar and he's bigger than ~TC,  That's not an organization. That`s a disorganization. pihat do you do for a brain man? Piss in it?'        '
,.		 .         . 48. .                                          .
tony		Yeah, what do you girls say? you manna have some ice cream with us somewhere?                    . They glance at Tony and Nanny and hti&ry on,               . Tony waves    her off, thenchanges his mind and runs up behind her    and throws up her skirt and peeks at her ass. Before she    can react, he hops away laughing as the two Cuban girls    ad-lib Spanish expletives at him. . Hey that's not cool, man. You war-ma score one of these chicks, watch XW=. Nira! \    :-             He wiggles his tongue up and down, fast like a small whirring motor part, then slips it back into his mouth in the -- flick of an eye. TONY !..the fuck was that? I .         MAW You didn't see it? You weren't looking. Key you gotta watch for it. . Does it again , quickly; it looks like a baby robin's head peeking out of a nest in his teeth, then it's gone. . TONY What the hell's that for -- eating bugs? That's disgustin',
49.		-        .   .
manny		No problem.                        .
.		 .        *.                                   .   ,  *. . - ?     _-   _ . +. x
-.		 . .   -
51-a		#02154 Rev. 12/16/82 66 66   CONTIN'WD
tony		 (Xl Mami... long     time....
tony		 Hi        Gina....
gina		Tony? She looks at her mother confused. She's a naturally dark, curly-headed beauty with a slim, graceful figure and large-lidded eyes brimming with the same energy as Tony's. 
tony		 Yeah, look at you,           you're beautiful... what's it been seven           years? Last                               (Xl you        looked like a boy. time I saw you, Now look at you, you          got great big eyes just like me!          Yeah,     so....
tony		I got this for you, no big.deal but....
gina		Oh   Tony! Gina     suddenly. explodes across       the   room   and   rushes       into   his grasping him fiercely. arms,
gina		...it's      you!
tony		Hey pussycat, c'mon -- you think they can keep a guy like me down? Disengaging gently, he holds up the contents of the gift box in font of her.   It's a beautiful diamond locket to wear around her neck.   Her eyes open wide.
tony		...yeah for      you...and look --               here. What I got       written on it.... "To    Gina   From    Tony.   Always."
gina		It's beautiful         Tony, it's          just beautiful.... The    mother is amazed       at the cost        of      the    gift.       Tony pulls out    another present,       for her.
tony		...for    you    too   Mama, look.... Moving towards her, he opens the package and pulls out an exquisite peral   necklace.  She stares at it, doesn't take it.   Gina comes over, takes it for her.
gina		it's beautiful... Mama,  Well anyway, here we are hunh? The three musketeers! We made it to America hunh? Let's toast! CONTINUED
gina		. . .So Mama's still at the factory and I'm working part-time at a beauty parlor.    I'm doing hair.  Remember Hiram Gonzalez? His father had the babershop? Tony   nods. GINA It's his place. Plus I'm going to junior college -- Miami Dade -- and in two more years I get my cosmetology license and then I'll be making enough.... TONY Yeah, well surprise, all that's over with starting today.  I didn't bring up my kid sister to work in no hair shop.... Mama looks over at him on the words "bring up" and he catches her look. TONY ...and Mama   don't    have   to   sew   in    no factory. He pulls out a bundle of cash, fifties and hundreds, and starts peeling them off on the table.  Mama stops working, looks. TONY  Yeah, your son's made it Mama, he's a success.  I wanted to surprise you.  That's how come I didn't show. my face around before.   I wanted you to see what a good boy I been. --
tony		That's      a thousand dollars            right there,     Mama -- for you. She approaches it cautiously, her fingers                      riffling    the bills, then looks back at her son.
gina		 Mama!
tony		I   didn't kill         nobody    Mama, 
tony		C'mon Mama. Things are different. I'm working with this anti-Castro I'm an organizer now, we get .group. a lotta political contributions....
gina		 What     are you saying Mama!             He's your son!
tony		Hey Mama, come on, you don't know what you're talking about.....
gina		Oh Mama.. .why do you got to spoil it for everybody.  I'm sorry Tony, I....
tony		igently) Okay, Mama, okay.... CUT TO
gina		Tony-.-Mama      -- since Papa             off.... took TONY Hey forget Papa, we never          had    one, okay? He was a bum!
gina		 Hey it's okay, it's Mama,          what    do    you want, she's Old World.
gina		I know you did some bad things Tow, then.     The Army, I know you got back trouble. into    some TONY Communists      you   know,   they're     always trying to tell you what to do. GINA Mama,    she    doesn't understand-.-but           I just want you to know, y'know, I don't care. Five years, ten years, CONTINUED
tony		Hey I know...1                     know. She    gives     him       a     soft      kiss.      He     takes    out   his   money      roll.
tony		Say, I want you to keep this for yourself.  Okay? Help Mama out, but don't tell her I gave you this, okay?
gina		You can come by the shop y'know, any afternoon, I'll be there okay? Her    eyes     fall       on        Manny    at     the     wheel. He     smiles       back        with      charm.
saleslady		 Your      wife looks terrific in                  that.
tony		My     wife?   You        gotta be         kidding.
tony		He got held up at the golf club. He told me to pick you up. He`ll meet us at the race track. Elvira     contemplating      him       with     distaste.
tony		He said if he was late to bet Ice Cream in the first. She      sighs, walks     across        the     lobby.     He    follows. CONTINUED
tony		Over   there....:=         #02154                              63 Rev. 12/21/82 89    CONTINUED - 2                                                     89 and 90    She looks. The car is a yellow Cadillac convertible with     2 big fins and Snoopy the dwarf dashboard statue with stickers all over the fenders. Adding to the impression are Manny and Chi-Chi waiting in the backseat.
tony		 ELVIRA ( shags 1 It's got style.                                         (Xl l TONY     . Yeah it looks like one of the tigers                    (Xl from India.
tony		 Funny guy hunh...Manny,   c'mere. Manny comes over and Tony walks him along the car, in quieter tones. TONY .Get these sections bullet-proofed               (X ...here...here.. .these windows....
elvira		No     but    I'm     bored.
tony		Figgers.  Check it out, will you Manny and pay the guy and grab a taxi out to the track....
tony		 Oh yeah 0-w He reaches into his pocket, pulls out a decal, a private joke.   He slaps it on the rear fender. It's the same sticker we saw earlier of the American flag with the epitaph, "Will the Last American leaving Miami please bring the flag." Elvira   wonders    about       it    as     he    joins     her.
tony		Somebody         gotta     keep the           animals     out.
tony		I'm glad you came. 'I                    wouldn't                             (Xl buy the car you didn't                   like it.
elvira		Planning on driving the                       girls     crazy,' aren't you? TONY Yeah    -- you          know    who. They get in the car.
elvira		And    what        would      Frank say? CONTINUED
elvira		 Don't get confused, Tony.             I     don't fuck around with the help, As he puts the key into the ignition, Tony has this wolfish grin on his face.
cut    to		INT. COCAINE LAB - BOLIVIA - DAY                                        93 Subtitle     appears:
sosa		so this and my other factory 1 can &&A guarantee production of 200 kilos refined every month   of the year.   Problem is I have no steady market.    Some months I can't get rid of fifty keys, other months I have to do 2 to 300 keys, it's crazy, hunh? Nobody can run a business that way ---
omar		I know what you mean Mr. Sosa, we got the same problems up in Miami, the demand varies for us too, month to month.... Sosa looks at him like that's obvious and moves on.   In his skinny  suit, with the wet cigarette clamped between his nervous fingers, Omar's not quite in his league with Sosa.
sosa		 ...say Lopez guarantees me 150 keys a month for a year, and he picks it up down here, I could sell it to him for as little as 7000 a kilo.  You cannot do better than that.
continued		94                                                                  94 OMAR Well, we do that we gotta take the . risk of moving it. Also we'd be cutting out the Columbians. You know what that means? TONY That means we gotta go to war with `em. looks over at him, not quite knowing yet what to make Sosa of this guy. SOSA When we cut out.the Coluxnbians we take risks -- on both sides. TONY Split the risk. Guarantee your delivery as far as Panama. SOSA Panama?  Risky?   It costs me more. There I'd sell maybe 13.5 a key. TONY 13.5! What are you nuts? We still gotta take the shit to Florida. You know what that's like these days? They got the Navy all over the fuckin' place.   They got frogmen, they got EC 2s with satellite tracking shit in 'em, they got fuckin' Bell 209 assault choppers up the ass, we're losing one out of every nine loads.   It's no duckwalk   for us anymore, y'know. Forget it. Omar is looking at him, ready to explode at his blithe assumption of power -- whereas Sosa chuckles, amused by his brashness, starting to be intrigued by this animal. SOSA What do you suggest is a fair...? Excuse me. Interrupted, Sosa looks over at his black aide who suddenly appears at the door, apparently with a message.  Sosa waves him in. The black aide Y- The Skull -- is a slim, tall imposing man with academic, 'horn-rimmed glasses and close-cropped hair on a huge and impressive skull. He combines the physical qualities of an animal with an intellectual. As he approaches, he glances down the table, his eyes falling CONTINUED
omar		Hey Montana, you got no authority here, okay ! I started you in this business, all right, so shut the fuck UQ! TONY  Frank'11 love it.        Don't worry about it. OMAR That's up to Frank -- not you.
71		#00766
94		CONTINUED     -       3 94 .. - He looks embarrassed at Sosa who has been watching, sensing --        also an advantage in the split. OMAR I'm sorry about          this, Mr. Sosa.... SOSA It's all right. Maybe your partner's right. Maybe you should talk to Frank. oM?iR  ...leave your friend here. While you're gone maybe he can tell me how to run business. my
sosa		Of course not. Uh -- an associate of mine.   From Miami. Tony Montana...  My fiance, Gabriella   Montini. TONY Hello.... She nods to him in that                   somewhat       uninterested,     rude, tx: upperclass Latin way.
tx:		GABRIELLA It's     a        pleasure.
tx:		She   withdraws.     Tony        watches        her   go.
tony		I gotta hand it to you. You got everything a man could want. Sosa, pleased, reaches for an expensive set of binoculars on the patio table, looks up through them, at the heli- copter rising off the lawn.
sosa		 I like you Tony. There's no lying in you.. .Unfortunately I don't feel the same way about the rest of your organization.
tony		In-l -- Whaddaya            getting       at, Mr. Sosa?
sosa		I   mean      Omar        Suarez.
74		#00766
95		CONTINUED    -     2 95 puzzled, glances up at the chopper which now hovers Tony, there    high above the estate.
96		96    THROUGH THE 3INOCULARS                 - OMAR terrified, being positioned at the door of the chopper by the Shadow and the Skull, his hands tied to his back and a He is length of thick rope looped around his neck. struggling backwards in vain. SOSA He put Vito Duval and the Ramos Brothers -- Nello and Gino -- away for life.  My associate used to work up there.
97		97    TONY Sosa watches him closely shaken, lowers the binoculars. Tony looks back at him, contemplative. for his reaction. Sosa goes over, pours himself some coffee. SOSA So how do        I    know you're   not   a   'chivato' too Tony? TONY stalks  Sosa -- get this straight right Hey now   !    I never fucked anybody over in my    life didn't have it comin' to him okay! All I got's my two balls -- my word -- and I don't break 'em. and CONTINUED
75		#02154 2nd Rev. 11/22/82 CONTINUED 97                                                                  97 TONY  You got my word on that. Sosa approaches Tony, focusing an intense stare on him, makes an elaborate gesture of putting his hands out, Tony followng the pantomine, puts his out.   Sosa now grips them. SOSA You speak with your eyes muchacho. I think -- you and I -- we can work this thing out, do business a long time together.  Just remember -- it's the only thing I ever tell you -- don't fuck me Tony, don't ever try to fuck me. Their eyes locked together.
cut to		AERIAL VIEW - MIAMI - TWILIGHT                                 98 In all its Caribbean splendor with the long curving beach and rich white buildings, bathed in a lovely violet light. Music theme continuing over. REVERSE WIFE TO \.__
76		#02154 Rev. l/18/83 EXT. LOPEZ MOTORS AUTO DEALERSHIP - LITTLE HAVANA - DAY       99 99 In long shot we see an agitated Lopez entering his dealership with his bodyguard. Against a background of used American cars without great distinction, he ad-libs his way through some customers and salesmen, shaking hands and acting like everybody's favorite uncle...till we see him approach Tony, who is waiting for him with Manny outside his office. He jerks his head.    Inside.  They go. CUT TO INT. AUTO LOPEZ OFFICE - DAY 100                                                                 100 The office is highly decorated with plagues, momentos, Cuban patriot flags, and lots of photographs, centering on JFK and RFK shaking the hand of Lopez who now stares incredulously at Tony. LOPEZ  You know what this fucking trial is costing me in legal fees, Montana? CONTINUED -
lopez		 Let's just say I want things to stay the way they are. For now.   Stall your deal with Sosa. Long pause.           Tony's eyes meeting Lopez's.                     He gave Sosa his word.
tony		 ...have        it your way boss. to He     turns    to    leave,     nods           Manny.
lopez		Montana... just remember I am the boss.
tony		Sure        you're    the     boss. to the door, Manny                joining       him. Gets
lopez		Y'know I told you when you started Tony, the guys who last in this busi- ness are guys who fly straight, real low key, real quiet.. -the guys who want it all, the chicks and the cham- pagne and the flash -- they don't last. saying        nothing, goes          out     the    door   with   Manny. Tow,
continued		102                                                                102
elvira		 This is not the time or the place. Next time make an appointment first. She tries to slam the door in his face but he blocks it and bulls in. TONY I got something important to tell ya. Why don't you make some drinks and act normal.
tony		Yeah.   Yeah -- fuck Frank.   Look, here's the story.   I'm from the gutter but I climbed out of it.    I'm not the smartest guy in the world but I got guts and I know the streets and I'm making the right connections.    With the right woman, there's no stopping me.   I could go to the top, I could be somebody here in Miami.    I could                                             (Xl be like Frank but bigger -- The biggest!... Elvira's    looking     at     him    like    he'.s       on    the     moon.
tony		Anyway what I         came up here to tell you is that.. .uh        I like you.   I think you're terrific.    I        known this the first time I seen you.          You belong to me. We're tigers.   The        two of us...1 want you to marry me and         be the mother of my children. Silence. ELVIRA  Me?   Marry you? She      laughs, a     short     harsh       laugh.
t        o   n    y		 Yeah.. -marry me. ELVIRA What about Frank? What                   are     you     going to do about Frank?
tony		Frank's  not gonna last...  I'm not looking for an answer right now Elvira, but I want you to think about it, okay? I want you to think hard... 1'11 see you the next time. . He goes. She         stares    at    him,       still    dazed,       yet     deep   down   -- ,..T' flattered. ----
cut   to		 #00766                      83
84		#02154 Rev.      12/16/82
tony		Talk about what, what's there to talk about? I ain't killed anybody lately.
bernstein		No not lately but we can go back to Like Emilio Rebenga, ancient history. like a bunch of whacked Indians at the Sun-Ray Motel in Miami Beach.... TONY Oh yeah? ..you know Mel whoever's giving you your information must be taking you guys for a long ride.
bernstein		Are we gonna talk or am I gonna bust your wiseass spit balls, Tony baby -- here and now?
cut   to		1C 106    INT. BABYLON CLUB - CORNER TABLE - TONY AND MEL in a corner of theeBabylon              -- talking.                          (X
tony		No    shit --      how   much?
bernstein		 There's an answer to that                 too....
tony		 That's   a big number.
bernstein		cx: That's on a monthly basis. Every month the same thing. You know how this works, don't you? We tell you who's moving against you, we shake down who you want shaken down, if you have a real problem in a collec- tion, we'll step in for you.   I got eight killers with badges working for me.   When we hit, it hurts-.-Same thing works the other way. You feed me a bust now and then, some new cowboy wants to go into business you let us know -- we like snacks, it looks good on the record.
tony		S'pose I give you the             money, how do I                        (Xl know you're the last             bull I gotta Metro, Lauderdale, grease?   What about DEA -- how do I know               what rock they're gonna come out from              under?
bernstein		That's none of our business,                 Tony,                       (Xl we don't cross no lines.
bernstein		I like the scar.                   Nice. Like Capone. But you oughta   smile more, Tony. Enjoy yourself.   Everyday above ground's a good day. He winks and         goes. Tony sits there brooding on it, eyes flicking back        to the dance floor.
tony		so.. .Did you think about.what                 I said?    About       the     kids? CONTINUED
lopez		Hey Tony, why don't you get your own girl?
tony		That's     what     I'm      doing,     Frank. Tense     look    on      Frank's     face.        The   bodyguard      circles. LOPEZ  Then go do it somewhere else. Get lost.
elvira		Frank,     he      was    only....
tony		 LOPEZ You won't be hearing anything, you go on like this.
tony		You     gonna     stop    me? Frank     is     livid. LOPEZ You're fucking right I am.    I'm                     giving you orders.                                                                  1X) Blow.   The      bodyguard     moves     closer       to    Tony   who     doesn't     move.
tony		 Orders?    There's only one thing that gives and gets orders, cabron    -- balls.                                  (Xl Pause.         Something's about to                pop, turns      back     just   at   the crest.         Lopez abruptly turns                away. CONTINUED
elvira		Frank, this is ridiculous.... LOPEZ C'mon! He crowds her.              she goes.   Tony watches as they exit Angry, the club.
09		#00766
107		107   CONTINUED - 3 MANNY where you going? Hey, He   doesn't      answer. CUT TO 108   INT. BABYLON CLUB - STAIRS AND LADIES ROOM - NIGHT                                      10E Tony comes down the plush velvet stairs, flings himself into the Ladies room...the ladies, surprised, look back at him. No Gina.
tony		What are you doing!                  What are you doing! He grabs burgundy suit by the collar and whips him several times into the wall.
gina		 restrain Tony!     What're you doing!                You're crazy! He   rips   the     coke out      of    her      hands   and   scatters   it   across the tiles.
tony		 Get the fuck out of here, maricon, y'hear, 1'11 kill you next time.
continued		109                                                                               10! _-. GINA Fernando!
tony		 Shaddup! Manny    runs    in, several         others now looking in from the hall.
tony		Go on! GINA What    the   hell    is....
tony		You think it's cute somebody puttin' their hands all over your ass, my kid sister, hunh? In a toilet! GINA It's none of your business! TONY The fuck it isn't! Three    dollar hooker, that's what you are. Snorting shit like that at your age, you oughta --- GINA What are you -- a priest? A cop! Look at your life. You can't tell me what to do!
tony		telling ya! I'm               I don't wanna see you in here again.    I catch you in here I'm gonna beat the shit outta you. GINA Oh yeah!   Go ahead! TON-Y You're getting outta here right now! Don't push me baby, don't push me!' GINA Don't fucking         push me! - CONTINUED
109		CONTINUED - 2 109 Okay, c'mon, let's go outside get some air.... The argument has moved across the bathroom to the lip of the hallway. Several more people are watching. GINA You got a nerve, Tony, you got a nerve!   You can't tell me what to do.   I'll do what I want to do. X'll go out with who I want and if I want to fuck them then 1'11 fuck them!
cut to		110   INT. BABYLON CLUB - MAIN ROOM - NIGHT                            110 Tony, isolated and edgy, reenters the main room, circling the edges of the crowd, up to the bar. CONTINUED
continued		110                                                                  11C TONY  Gimme a double of that! He turns, catches a last glimpse of Gina leaving with Manny. CUT TO 111   EXT. MIAMI STREETS - NIGHT                                     111 Manny drives Gina home in his two-seater Mercedes sports coupe.  She's still angry. GINA ...He's got a nerve the way he acts! Mama's right. She says he hurts every- thing he touches. Well he's not gonna hurt me anymore. He`ll never see me again. Never!
93		#02154 Rev. 12/16/82
111		CONTINUED 111 She   gives   him    a       look. GINA Like       who?
gina		What about              you?     Why don't       you     take me out?
gina		So     what?
gina		You think about it, okay, you think about it real hard, Manny.  'Cause you don't know what you're missing....
95		#00766
cut to		INT. SAFE 115               HOUSE - THAT NIGHT                                            115 Tow, aching from his wound, is attended by a Doctor, who reveals to Us an ugly wound on his rib cage. Tony looks at it, doesn't express a reaction.
doctor		It's going to be sore for a few months. TONY Somebody else gonna be a lot sorer...  Find out where Lopez is....
cut to		116   INT. MIRIAM'S APARTMENT - NIGHT                                           116 Miriam's a tough-looking little ckick             in panties and a tank top with "Cocaine" written on it.
tony's voice		Miriam?     Yeah...Tony.   Manny there? MIRIAM Yeah... It's Tony. Manny, in bed, is snorting a line of coke off a mirror, takes the phone, in good spirits.
97		#02154 11/22/82 Rev. 117 SAFE HOUSE - NIGHT INT. 117 TONY Look, get your fuckin' clothes on and meet me outside Lopez's office in forty-five minutes. That phone Move your ass! booth on 9th.  Yeah.
118		118   INT. MIRIAM'S APARTMENT - NIGHT
cut   to		121    INT.     SAFE    HOUSE       -    NIGHT                                                   12: Tony     ignores       the       doctor   taping     him,       checking   his   watch. . TONY  Nick, when we get                  there, call Lopez at three exactly.                  You got that?                           (X NICK Yeah,        don't     worry Tony.          I got it.
tony		All you say is you're one of the guys at the-club   -- 'Hello, Mr. Lopez, there was a fuckup, he got away....' CONTINUED
98		#00766
lopez		Tony...?   Uh, I'll call you back-.-yeah. Hangs the phone up and rocks forward at his desk. Lopez's bodyguard, Ernie, gets the message from Chi-chi sliding along the wall next to him, Manny covering the other side of the room.
lopez		Tony... what happened to you, hunh? TONY Yeah, lookit.  They spoiled one of my $800 suits. CONTINUED
tony		Why don't you answer it 'Frank? CONTINUED `.
100		#00766
123		CONTINUED - 2 123 LOPEZ m-l. * .Must be Elvira.   You know women. -4'                        After we left that joint she....
lopez		 Yeah... all right honey, don't worry... I'll be home in an hour. He    hangs    up.    Pause. TONY Frank,    you're   a   piece   of   shit.
lopez		Whatcha     talking    'bout Tony?
tony		You know what I'm talking about you fuckin' cockroach!
lopez		Tony,     no!   Lissen!
tony		You remember what a 'haza' is Frank? It's a pig that don't fly straight. Neither do you, Frank.
lopez		 Why would I hurt you, Tony, I brought you in!     So we had a few differences, no big deal.     I gave you your start Tony, I believed in you ! TONY Yeah and     I stayed loyal to you, Frank.      I made what I could on the side but     I never turned you Frank, never --     but you -- a man ain't got no word,     he's a cockroach! CONTINUED
101		#00766
tony		...Every     dog    has his day.
bernstein		Now wait a minute, Montana, don't go too far. TONY I'm not Mel. You are. He produces his Baretta from his sling and holds it in his left hand pointed at the big man.
bernstein		 You can't Hey, c'mon, what is this? shoot a cop, Tony. . . TONY Whoever     said     you were     one? He    fires.
103		#00766
tony		You     want        a     job     Ernie?
ernie		Sure,     Tony. TONY Come     see        me         tomorrow.
ernie		Thanks,            Tony. Tony walks out alone into the darkened showroom, past the hulks of the used Cadillacs, as we see the shadows of Manny and Chi-Chi moving in a stream of light.
elvira		Tony?...
elvira		What's             happened? Tony       just     stands            there.
elvira		Where's            Frank?
tony		Where do you think?..Why don't you go pack your stuff. We're going home. CONTINUED
104		#00766
105		#02154 Rev. l/18/83 132 EXT.     GASPAR'S        STREET     -    DAY 132
marielitos, is            ambushed    and    blown    up    in    his   car.		One     of     the
133		EXT. BANK - DAY 133 Camera moving from a sign saying "Banco Del Sur Miamil' to .
134		INT.    TONY'S         MANSION     -    DAY 134  (XI Chi-Chi's         on    the    phone    worried         with     Gigi.  1.3! 'INT.    MANNY'S         APARTMENT       -     DAY 135 Manny's  on the other end -- with another ladyfriend, both :   .             stripped down, the camera moving back down the telephone cord to the receiver.... CUT TO  13 INT. TAP TRAILER - DAY 136  The tap -- trailer -- simultaneous...the camera moving along the tape spools to the two narks listening.  13 137      EXT. STASH HOUSE - NIGHT  Rafi, another              Marielito, is               led off     in    handcuffs      from   a suburban stash             house by the                cops.  13 NEWSPAPER              HEADLINES 138 Time Magazine "Raid Nets             $100     Million         Cocaine     Stash!" covers.  12 -139     VIC,       THE     NEWSCASTER     ON       TV . "135       drug-related         homicides         so      far   this     year!" I  106 #02154 Rev. 11/2/82 (Xl  139-A 139-A NICK THE PIG shaking     down     punk     in    Cuban       park.  139-B 139-B LITTLE HAVANA - NIGHT - GINA  exits     flashy     car. 14E 140   OMITTED 141   HANDS                                                                                            143  stripping         false     bottoms        from       suitcases.  _. 142   EXT. GINA'S BEAUTY SALON - DAY                                                                   14: Gina, with Tony, Manny, Waldo, Hernando, Gigi and Elvira looking on, cuts the ribbon for the new Gina Beauty Salons in Little Havana.  She looks towards her brother, then her eyes linger on Manny.  He suppresses his smile, winks at her.
151-		151-A EXT. TONY'S MANSION - GUARD HOUSE - DAY Behind some nearby bushes, Gina and                                     are making out in MaMy the grass. They hear the sounds of                                 Tony's voice, freeze, making shushing signals, then almost                               laugh when they con- sider their childish state. CONTINUED       .
cut   to		151-B INT. TONY'S MANSION OFFICE - DAY - MONTH           DATER            151-B
tony		...yeah, well, I can't pay that no more Jerry, I'm gonna be bringing in more'n I ever brung in, y'know. I'm talking ten million a month now. That's serious money.   So I think it's time you bank boys come down a bit, y'know, like....
banker		f-leY, Tony, c'mon, that's crazy, can't do....
tony		That's   too    bad,    'cause....
banker		Tony, sweetheart, we're not a wholesale operation here, we're a legitimate bank. The more cash you give us the harder it is to rinse, y'know. The fact is we yan't  even take anymore of your money less we raise the rates on you.
tony		You   gonna    what, Jerry?
banker		Tony, Tony, we gotta. The IRS is coming down heavy on South Florida, y'know.   That Time Magazine cover didn't help any. We gotta do it -.
tony		 You get the house sweeped          this month? The cars?
tony		Hey  Manny when does it take             three days to rig a cable, hunh?
tony		What if it's the Diaz brothers? What if they're gonna come and get me?
tony		Hey you got some attitude y'know Manny -- for a guy in charge of my security.
tony		You worry about       it, it    lets me sleep good at night.        There's   that fat guy again. Manny looks over at a jogger running by the                   gate -- of the porcine quality, civilian-looking,  fifties.
tony		I seen him every day.           'Bout   a   week now.
tony		How the fuck    do you know what he is?
tony		Maybe  not...  I'm telling you we're getting sloppy -- our thinking -- our attitude. We're not fucking    hungry anymore!
cut    to		153                                                                                    153 thru   OMITTED                                                                        thru 157                                                                                    157
bank spokesman		s . -Here at Florida Security Trust we've been putting your money to work for a better America. We've been around for seventy-five years. We'll be here tomorrow.
tony		 Somebody oughta   do something about these whores.   Charging me ten points on my money and they're getting away with it! ThG's       no laws anymore, anything goes.                                       l
tony		listen      to this,      guy's      always                Hey, good    for a       laugh. Visual of silver-haired television Anchorman -- Vie Phillips -- with a bit of show business image in him -- to be seen again.  Underneath his face, it says "Editorial." `. .   . CONTINUED .:
tony		 Guy never fuckin' tells the truth. It's the guys like him, the bankers and the politicians who want to keep the coke illegal so's they can make more money and get the votes to fight the bad guys. They're the bad guys. They'll fuck   anything for a buck....
elvira		And what about you Tony? Can't you stop talking about it all the time, can't you stop saying fuck? -- it's boring, it's boring!
tony		What's    boring?
elvira		 You're boring. Money, money, money! That's all I hear in this house. Frank never talked about money. TONY 'Cause   Frank   was     dumb.
(xl		ELVIRA You know what you've become Tony -- an arriviste, an immigrant spit millionaire who can't stop talking. -- CONTINUED
tony		What're    you talking about, I worked my    ass off for all this. 
tony		Hey you know           what your    problem     is pussycat....
elvira		 What    - my problem, Tony? is
tony		Why don't you get a job y'know? Be a nurse, work with blind kids, lepers, open a stationary store, I don't give a shit.   Anything beats lying around waiting for me to fuck you all the time.                                (Xl ELVIRA ( stung 1 honey, you're Don't toot your           horn, not that good. TONY Frank    was     better?
elvira		 You're    an asshole. She      goes.
tony		 Hey c'mon Elvie, whatta              we    fight for, this is dumb! He    splashes     the    water    in    his   tub   and   slams      the   TV   shut.
tony		You stink as a negotiator, that's why. You like the ladies more'n you do the money -- that's your problem Manny.
tony		Junior     partner.
tony		I'm in charge. Do as I say. You go to Atlanta, you handle the Gomez delivery there.
seidelbaum		 No, that's just not possible. The machine don't make mistakes.
tony		Well,   we'll    count it    again.
siedelbaum		Oh   Jesus! . TONY Hey business is business.    We're talking $1500. SEIDELBAUM  Okay, you keep the change okay, I don't give a shit.
tony		Okay but I'll       go through it again with you.
seidelbaum		We're up       to what?
luis		 Seven checks.    A million three hundred twenty-five and six hundred twenty-three                                     (Xl ...plus eighteen cents.
tony		 Hey      we're almost finished. Another 200     thousand and we can take a leak.
siedelbaum		Yeah     but    this'11       do fine. Fulls    a   pistol    from       his   ankle      and   rises.
seidelbaum		You're under federal arrest, Montana, for a continuing criminal conspiracy. The Rico Statute. Get 'em up. Tony     astonished. TONY Oh      shit.. -You're         not     kidding      hunh?                                                                       (Xl Get    it. (Xl CONTINUED
tony		So how do I know you guys are cops? Luis,     produces a wallet             with      identification,        shoves      it under     Tony's nose.
luis		What's    that    say,     asshole? Insert:      Photograph      and    Drug         Enforcement      Agency       ID.
tony		 Hey   that's good work,           where    can    I     get one   of those? LUIS Cabron!  You call yourself Cuban? You make a real Cuban throw up.
seidelbaum		Looie!     Cool   it.
tony		 Call your dog off, Seidelbaum. I wanna call my lawyer.
seidelbaum		Lotta good he's gonna do you Montana.    There's an eye there                  in the wall.  Say hi, honey....
tony		Yeah, is that what you              jerk    off    in front of Seidelbaum?
seidelbaum		 Okay,   Danny, turn it off. The    angle     goes   black.
tony		 I know all that shit, Seidelbaum, save your breath.    It ain't gonna stick.   You know it, I know it.    I '.m here changing dollar bills is all. So you wanna waste everybody's time here, I call my lawyer. Best lawyer in Miami. He's so good tomorrow morning you're gonna be working in Alaska, Seidelbaum.... As     they     handcuff   him....
dissolve to		164   INT. TONY'S BATHROOM - DAY                                                 164
sheffield		Five years, you'll be out in three, maybe less if I can make a deal.
tony		For what! Three years in the can! For washing money? This whole country's built out of washed money!
tony		they never get me back in a No...no, cage.. -never!  HeyI George I go another four hundred grand -- I go 800,000 dollars, okay? With that you can fix the Supreme Court, hunh?
sheffield		Tony.. .the law has to prove 'beyond a reasonable doubt.'   I'm an expert at raising that doubt but when you got a million three undeclared dollars staring into a videotape camera, honeybaby, it's hard to convince a jury you found it in a taxi cab.
sosa		General Eduardo Strasser, Commander of the First Army Corps...Tony  Montana. The   man   is     in     civilian      clothes.
sosa		Ariel Bleyer, from the Ministry                      of the Interior...Tony Montana. The cameras moving past Sosa's black aide, the Skull  silent behind his sunglasses, to an American- type in a Brook6 Brothers suit who stands.
sosa		. . * Charles Goodson   --            a    friend    of   ours from Washington. TONY Hi.... GOODSON How        do    you   do,    Mr. Montana.... He smells like a government guy.  Sosa summons                             the     black aide -- in a hushed voice. SOSA Nicky, have Albert0 meet us in the living  room. The   black       aide    goes. SOSA  Tony,        come, please sit          here.
sosa		We all know you have tax troubles in your country -- and you may have to do a little time. But we have some friends in Washington who tell us these troubles can be taken care of ...maybe you'll have to pay a big fine and some back interest, but there's no      time....
sosa		Come I I'll show you. Tony cautiously stands to follow him. CUT TO 168   INSERT - INT. SOSA VILLA LIVING ROOM - DAY - VIDEOTAPE -            168 MATOS STUDY A "Phil     Donahue-type" setting. A segment now in progress with the      "Donahue-type" interviewing Dr. Orlando Gutierrez.    (Xl Gutierrez    is a young charismatic man, very well dressed and polished    in a South American manner who exudes a sense of enormous     passion. GUTIERREZ than 10,OOO'of our people are ...More being tortured and held without trial. In the past two years, another 6,000 have simply disappeared. And your government -- what does it do? It sells my government tanks, planes, guns, but not a word -- not-a whisper -- about human rights! CONTINUED
gutierfsz		The irony, of course, is that this money -- which is in the billions, J i m - - is coming from your country. You are the major purchaser of our national product -- which of course is cocaine.
interviewer		So what you're saying Doctor Gutierrez is the United States Government is spending millions of dollars to eliminate the flow of drugs into our streets and at the same time is -     -    - doing business with the very same government that floods those' streets with cocaine.. -that's a bit like robbing Peter to pay Paul, isn't it?
gutierrbz		 Let me show you some of the other characters in the comedy, Jim...my organization just recently traced a purchase by this man ---
gutierrez                                           (xl		 The United States Government has.to stop supporting these facist  gang- sters that are running my country, that is what your country has to do.  You have to set a strong example by calling for the observation of fundamental human rights.
gutierrez                                            (xl		You Americans have no idea how important your country is as a symbol and a bastion of those rights.   You have no.... Sosa flips         off the    television.    The    lights    come    on.       He's alone with         Tony.
sosa		...he's scheduled next for 60 Minutes. He's going on French, British, Italian, Japanese   television.   People   everywhere are starting to listen to him. He's embarrassing, Tony...That*s     our problem.
tony		Yeah. Sosa     looks    up.
sosa		You've   met   Albert0    before?...
tony		 Sure.    How could I forget?
sosa		Alberto, you know Tony       Montana   --   my partner from Florida.
continued		171                                                                        171 Albert0    nods icily, remains         standing    adjacent. SOSA  Is that a problem, Tony? Tony looks around the faces, then:
tony		That's no problem, Alex.... Alex nods, pleased. Hold on Tony.         He blows his nose again. CUT TO INT.     THE             RESTAURANT - MIAMI - 172                  LAUNDRY                                 NIGHT   .     175 A millionaire's place, like "The Forge" on Arthur Godfrey Road. Tony, Elvira,      and Manny are shown to their table by the maitre d'. Tony, a little loaded, intersects a group of people at another table and stops, putting his hand on a heavyset man's     shoulder. TONY Hey, Vie,   I   watch     your   show   everyday. Vie -- who we saw before editorializing on television.-- cranes his leonine white head of hair around with a patrician annoyance reserved for bores in restaurants.
vic		Oh, is that so?
tony		Yeah. Hey, you know that two hundred kilo DEA bust you was congratulating the cops for on the toob the other night? VIC .-__ . Aren't you.. .Tony Montana? CONTINUED
tony		Lot         of bullshit, that's what. Politics. The         whole world's turning into politics.
173		He pulls out his           own   vial     under    the       table     between   eating _-
tony		Yeah, so what do you think Emilio Rebenga was? Politics or what? Manny    remembers. TONY No     free    rides   in this        world,       kid.
elvira		What     guy? TONY  What     guy?
elvira		I     lost    my    appetite. She   does the other nostril. Tony looking                         at    her.     One     beat. Two   beats. He passes a silent burp.
tony		 Is this it? Is that what it's all about, Manny?  Eating, drinking, snorting, fucking? Then what? You're fifty and you got a bag for a belly and tits with hair on 'em and your liver's got spots and you're looking like these rich fuckin' mummies in here? Is that what it's all about?
tony		 A junkie??? I gotta fucking junkie for a wife? Who never eats nothing, who wakes up with a quaalude, who sleeps all day with black shades on, who won't fuck me 'cause she's in a coma!
elvira		You     sonufabitch!      You fuck! They got a black tie audience now. The waiter tipping around to clean up the mess.  Tony slowly wiping the food off   himself.
elvira		How dare you talk to me like that! You call yourself a man! What makes you so much better than me, what do you do? Deal drugs? Kill people? Oh that's just wonderful Tony -- a real contribution to human history. You want a kid. What kind of father do you think you'd make, Tony? What kind of stories are you going to tell the kid before he goes to sleep at night? You going to drive him to school in the mornings, Tony? You really think you're still going to be alive by the time he goes to school, Tony? You're dreaming, Tony, you're dreaming! The       audience    is hushed, involved, the camera moving over the      faces of     Vie and his rich friends.
tony		Sit    down   before   I kill    you.
elvxra		* . . You think of yourself as a husband, too, Tony.     But did you ever stay home without having six of your goons around all the time? I have Nick the Pig as a friend? What kind of life is that Tony? What kind of life is that? CONTINUED
tony		 Manny.
elvira		I'm not stoned Tony. You're No, stoned.  You're so stoned you don't even know it.
tony		All        right   I'm    stoned.   Manny.
elvira		No,  no you stay right there Manny, I'm not going home with you...I'm not going home with anybody. I'm going home alone...  I'm leaving you.   I don't need this shit anymore. Pause.    She starts wobbling out. Past the silent spectators, their eyes moving between her and Tony.
tony		Let her go! ..Another guaalude                     and she'll lpve me again. Tony's Stumbling once, Elvira disappears               out      the     door. eyes follow her.   Pause. .. CONTINUED
tony		You're all assholes. You know why? 'Cause none of you got the guts to be what you want to be. He wobbles        against   the   table.    Manny   tries     to    help.    Tony shakes him        loose.
tony		You need people like me so you can point your fingers and say 'hey there's the bad guy!'   So what does that make you? Good guys? Don't kid yourselves. You're no better'n me. You just know how to hide -- and how to lie. Me I don't have that problem.   I always tell the truth -- even when I lie. He     starts     out,   staggers.
tony		So say good night to the bad guy... You're never gonna see a bad guy like me again.
cut    to		174   EXT. GUITERREZ' STREET - NEW YORK - NIGHT                                                f-74 A quiet East Eighties street. Two rich-looking male lovers stroll past with their dog. A moment of silence. Tony moves into frame. Behind him, the Shadow  moves towards a sedan parked along the curb, carrying an airline bag. Be slips under the car.
tony		 Psst!      La Jara!        Apaga.
tony		The ASPCA? What's that?.. Jesus, that's not the place where they chop these dogs up is it? .
shadow		 What    the fuck you doing!
tony		 Hey    that was close, hunh?
cut    to		179   EXT. GUITERREZ' STREET - NEW YORK - DAY - EARLY NEXT MORNING 175 (Xl Ernie, Chi-Chi, and the Shadow huddle cold and uncomfortable in the sedan, waiting -- eating pizzas and drinking beers. The morning has come down ice cold.
shadow		 What the fuck's he doing                   now!    That sonufabitch....
tony		Hello baby, how's Baltimore?..hey                     (Xl look Elvie, I been thinkin' 'bout us, you know and....
chi-chi		 Everything okay Tony?
tony		Yeah roses. Where is this fuckin' I don't got all day to piss WY? away.
chi-chi		Probably     fucking   his wife.  Jeezus      it's cold.
chi   -chi		What's so important            about this guy anyway?  What's he             a Communist?                        Nah he's no Communist. He's a kinda                               (Xl symbol, that's what he is. CHI-CC1 What     the   fuck's   that mean     --     symbol?
tony		It's like when you die, your life meant something to somebody, y'know? It wasn't like you just lived it for yourself, but you did something for the rest of the human race too.... Tony snorts    another   line     -- seen    through       the   rearview mirror. CHI-CHI  Yeah? TONY Me, I wanna die fast.  With my name written in lights all over the sky. Tony Montana. He died doin' it. CHI-CHI Whatcha talking 'bout Tony,            you ain't gonna die.
tony		 Ernie,   what time? CONTINUED    .
tony		 I       gotta call Manny.
shadow		 Sit       down!
tony		Hey, you          don't       tell    me   what    to     do, you,...
chi-chx		Tony,          he's     coming!
191		191    XNT. TONY'S SEDAN - DAY SHADOW  Okay, okay, cool it willya all right.
19		THROUGH TONY'S WINDSHIELD - DAY 192 of the Mates   pulls his car out               parking space.
tony		What    the       ---
tony		What the fuck!   You said the                           wife took `em in the other car.
chi-chi		She did          boss. She did it                every fuck=            day, I swear!
tony		Hey Chico, no fuckin' way!  No wife, no kids! We hit this fuckin' guy we hit him alone okay.
tony		...aw  fuck        this, this         fuckin' asshole! Chi-Chi,         in   the   back, looks       on     worried.                                     (X
shadow		 Madre de dios, my bomb! -- don't you fuckin' fall, my little baby! Perspiration          starting     to   break      out     on     his     forehead.
tony		 ...this is fuckin' crazy, man, this is sloppy doing it this way, you don't do it like this.... ..._. He     hcinks     furiously at a cab that tries to cut him off.
shadow		 You're losing them! There!   That street, they go that street!
tony		I see 'im!              I see `im!
shadow		 Thirty          metres! Thirty metres! Go! Go! TONY Shut the fuck                up! Honking        like     a       madman       and    accelerating       past     a    truck....
tony		...what am I doing? What the                           fuck am I doing here?...
shadow		 ...okay, okay, nice 'n' easy...at the corner... when he pulls up at the corner. His    finger       hovering             around        the     second     key       of     the     decoder.
tx:		Chi-Chi       in    the     back, leaning                    forward     across          the     seat.
ton?		 Two     kids in the car,                      Jesus    Christ!
shlidow		Shut     up! CHI-CHI  He's gonna get out! Hurry UP,                                    hurry the fuck up! CONTINUED            .
tony		motherfucker! The Shadow glances over at Tony, astonished. Tony pumps two shots point-blank into him, blowing his face off and smashing him against the door of the moving sedan, blood and brains splattering the windows and the seat covers.
chi-chi		Oh Jesus Christ!     Jesus Christ! What the.... Tony swerving the sedan back across the Avenue, the traffic around them honking and moving along at its normal pace as the Shadow's body slumps down out of sight, another Monday morning traffic accident with blood and brains splattered up against a passenger window and nobody really sees... except a six-year-old girl in an adjacent vehicle; she wonders momentarily, then dismisses it.
tony		 ...so what'd you think I was, hunh? A fucking   worm like you!  I told you don't fuck with me!    I told you no kids!   You shoulda listened to me you stupid fuck!
cut to		208    OMITTED                                                        2c (2
ernie's   voice		I had a        delivery. Tow, everything go okay,       whatsa ---
tony		Puck    no?   Where the hell's Manny? I been    calling all over.
ernie's voice.		I don't know, Tony. He's been gone last couple of days. Didn't say nothing. TONY What!   Where!  I left that sunufabitch in charge! What the hell is going on here, can't 1 trust anybody anymore. ERNIE'S VOICE I don't know, Tony, he just took off, y'know, he didn't say nothing... you all right? TONY No, I'm not all right.    I'm pissed off!   And when I 'get there I'm gonna kick some ass all over the fuckin' place! ERNIE'S VOICE When     you   coming    back, Tony?
tony		Tonight!  Where the hell is that cocksucker? I can't trust nobody no more. You think just 'cause I'm a nice guy....
ernie's voice		Uh, Tony, your mama called.    Gina's             , gone.   She got to see you right .away. CONTINUED
tony		Yeah, okay, okay...listen if she calls, tell her I love her, okay?
ernie's   voice		Yeah, okay            Tony. Tony hangs up. A              moment of despair.             Then   he        snorts another spoon and             snaps back. CUT      TO 211   EXT. AIRPORT - NIGHT                                                                   211 Plane    taking     off. CUT      TO 212   EXT. TONY'S MANSION - THAT NIGHT                                                       212 Tony drives up in a white Corniche  with Chi-Chi, jumps out in the same bloodstained clothes, rushes in.
tony		Hear       from   Manny?
ernie		No Tony. Your mama called again. She gotta see you. And Sosa's been ringing every half-hour on the eleven line.   Tony, he sounds pissed, he.... CONTINUED
ernie		Right,         Tony. Tony     stalks     off, towards           his      office.
214		214   INT.     TONY'S        OFFICE  Amid his computer space games and half-dozen televisions and  stereos, Tony picks up the ringing phone.  TONY Yeah?          Hi.     Mami.  Her voice on the phone sounds The other phone is ringing. hysterical and angry. Not really listening, Tony breaks open a new vial, pours the entire vial of coke out across the desk into a thick quarter-moon pattern. He snorts. Chi-Chi signals he's got Sosa on the other line. TONY  I told you a long time                      you little ago, fuckin' monkey, not to              fuck     me and.... Tony holding the mouthpiece                  away from      his     ear    and   talking _-    -'
tony		 You try Manny again.            Gimme    five minutes. He   hurries     towards   the     house.
citrus		Four hundred something. Four hundred nine. You Drive. gotta talk to her Tony, she don't She says to listen to me anymore. me 'Shut up! Mind your own business.'  Exactly like you do to me. Ever since you come back, she's been getting thiseway. He turns to leave but she clings to his arm. ,. -- CONTINUED
tony		...when I was in that Army jail in Cuba, rotting my ass off, not once. I hadda come out into the fuckin' streets to find out my mother and my sister are gone from my house, they left the country not one word, one letter, that's   right.- Where wereyou? CONTINUED
tony		That's right! That's      right.   What did you expect!,.,
tony		 Wait here. He approaches the front door, listening, the hand sliding into his pocket.  Inside a wistful Billy Joel song plays over the stereo. He rings a buzzer, waits. the pause. The door opens casually. Standing             there Hold is Manny -- with a towel around his waist.
gina		Manny!
gina		You     killed       him? Shaking     her     head     at    him    incredulously.
gina		We got married just yesterday. We were gonna surprise you.
gina		Manolo, oh Manolo, what'd                  he     do?.. What'd he do? She hugs his corpse tightly to her                        breast and       makes horrible strangled sounds with her                        throat.
somebody's seen the		Chi-Chi hurrying up to Tony, worried shooting.   Ernie follows.
chi-chi		come    on.    We gotta       get    out   of Tony, here.  Come     on     baby...Gina!
gina		Noooooooooooo! And shoving Chi-Chi aside, launches herself on Tony, screaming incoherently like a madwoman, trying to kill him.   She beats him around the head, the chest, scratches furrows of flesh from his face. He stands there, oblivious, numbed.
ernie		 Get     the body!
chi-mi		Tony!
tony		Yeah!
22;		222   EXT.      TONY'S        MANSION       GROUNDS     -     THAT     NIGHT
tony		Do what? Where? Put her upstairs. Put her in my bedroom.  It'll be all right, pussycat, you'll see everything'11 be okay, I'll take care of you....
224		224   INT. TONY'S OFFICE - NIGHT . A haze of coke rises off the 'Tony slumps on -his couch. velvet like a snow scene painting on a Christmas card. Oblivious to the dust, he cuts open a fresh plastic kilo 'bag of coke and spreads the entire pound out across the black marble coffee table. Ernie    and   Chi-Chi   come   in.                                     CHI-CHI                                 (Xl We got some pills into her, she's cooling down.
cut     to		225   EXT. TONY'S MANSION GROUNDS - LATER THAT NIGHT                                                         225 The     Bengal      tiger     paces         his     spot,      restless.
tony		 . . . Jesus fuckin' Christ whatsa matter with me, get a hold of y'self now these cocksuckers gonna run over you let 'em try I bury the cocksuckers....
gina		Is     this    what       you want      Tony?... Tony     shocked.
gina		You can't stand another man                         touching me.  So you want me Tony, is                        that it? Well here I am 0-T She    fires    the    Baretta       we    now   see    in    her    hand.
gina		I'm all        yours       Tony,       I'm all yours now. Bullets ripping into the desk.   She advances, offering her sex, methodically shooting out the clip at rhythmic intervals.
gina		Come and get me Tony.                   Before       it's too     late.
continued		226                                                                            22
(x		ERNIE Get outta Tony,         they're    everywhere! here! Ernie suddenly wheels, hit in the face, by a burst of                    (X silencer bullets. We catch a brief glimpse of Sosa's black aide, the Skull, moving quickly along the wall of the house -- directly underneath the balcony on which Tony stands.
tony		 Hey     Gina come on, you still angry at me?      I didn't mean to kill Manny, I was..    .I   was.
tony		Who you think I am? I kill all you fuckin' assholes.  I take you all to fuckin' hell! Left.    Right Another hitter   drops,   screaming, off the stairs into the pool below. A grenade goes off. Tony is hit again, but keeps on firing away.  Laughing like a madman.
tony		You need an army you hear!    An army to kill me! Behind him we see the remainder of the     pound of cocaine go up in a burst of wind, whipping around    the office in auras of white.  It is a ghostly effect out     of which now appears the face of the Skull moving from the     terrace towards    _ Tony's back with a sawed-off shotgun. TONY Ha ha ha ha ha! You whores, you scum, I piss in your faces !!!! Ha ha ha ha ha!! Skull, now inches from Tony's back,     pulls   the   trigger The and blows Tony's spine out his belly. Tony crashes forward over the bannister into the interior swimming pool below. He floats quietly face down in the lit blue waters. As the titles begin their crawl up, the music theme is expressive salsa with a dash of gaiety. The camera moving off Tony to catch the reflection of the lit sculpture on the surface of the still waters.   It says: "THE WORLD IS YOURS" And so, for the brief moment, it was. CONTINUED
****Dialogues from script :Schindler_s_List.txt****

waiter		From the gentleman.
lieutenant		Do I know him?
lieutenant		Find out who he is.
lieutenant		Stay here.
lieutenant		Let me get this one.
schindler		No, put it away, put it away.
schindler		What are you drinking, gin?
clerks		Groder... Gemeinerowa... Libeskind...
schindler		Stern?
schindler		Are you Itzhak Stern?
stern		I am.
schindler		There's a company you did the books for on Lipowa Street, made what, pots and pans?
stern		 By law, I have to tell you, sir, I'm a Jew.
schindler		All right, you've done it -- good company, you think?
stern		It did all right.
schindler		I don't know anything about enamelware, do you?
stern		I was just the accountant.
schindler		Simple engineering, though, wouldn't you think? Change the machines around, whatever you do, you could make other things, couldn't you?
schindler		Field kits, mess kits...
schindler		Army contracts.
schindler		Once the war ends, forget it, but for now it's great, you could make a fortune. Don't you think?
stern		 I think most people right now have other priorities.
schindler		Like what?
stern		Get the contracts and I'm sure you'll do very well. In fact the worse things get the better you'll do. It was a "pleasure."
schindler		The contracts? That's the easy part. Finding the money to buy the company, that's hard.
schindler		You know anybody?
schindler		Jews, yeah. Investors.
stern		 Jews can no longer own businesses, sir, that's why this one's for sale.
schindler		Well, they wouldn't own it, I'd own it. I'd pay them back in product. They can trade it on the black market, do whatever they want, everybody's happy.
stern		Pots and pans.
schindler		 Something they can hold in their hands.
stern		I don't know anybody who'd be interested in that.
schindler		 They should be.
goldberg		What's that?
pfefferberg		You don't recognize it? Maybe that's because it's not what I asked for.
goldberg		You asked for shoe polish.
pfefferberg		My buyers sold it to a guy who sold it to the Army. But by the time it got there -- because of the cold -- it broke, the whole truckload.
goldberg		 So I'm responsible for the weather?
pfefferberg		I asked for metal, you gave me glass.
goldberg		This is not my problem.
pfefferberg		Look it up.
pfefferberg		This is not your problem? Everybody wants to know who I got it from, and I'm going to tell them.
goldberg		Metal.
pfefferberg		Let's say this is what you give me. These are fees I have to pay some guys. This is my commission. This is what I bring you back in Occupation currency.
pfefferberg		That's a nice shirt.
schindler		You don't know where I could find a shirt like that.
pfefferberg		Like this?
schindler		 There's nothing in the stores.
pfefferberg		You have any idea what a shirt like this costs?
schindler		Nice things cost money.
pfefferberg		How many?
schindler		I don't know, ten or twelve. That's a good color. Dark blues, grays.
pfefferberg		Write down your measurements.
schindler		I'm going to need some other things. As things come up.
czurda		The SS doesn't own the trains, somebody's got to pay. Whether it's a passenger car or a livestock car, it doesn't matter -- which, by the way, you have to see. You have to set aside an afternoon, go down to the station and see this.
czurda		So you got thousands of fares that have to be paid. Since it's the SS that's reserved the trains, logically they should pay. But this is a lot of money.  The Jews. They're the ones riding the trains, they should pay. So you got Jews paying their own fares to ride on cattle cars to God knows where. They pay the SS full fare, the SS turns around, pays the railroad a reduced excursion fare, and pockets the difference.
schindler		 Excuse me.
schindler		There's nothing more sacred than marriage. No happier an occasion than one's wedding day. I wish you all the best.
owner		I go to the bank, I go in, they tell me my account's been placed in Trust. In Trust? What are they talking about, whose Trust? The Germans'. I look around. Now I see that everybody's arguing, they can't get to their money either.
max redlicht		This is true?
owner		I'll take you there.
max redlicht		Let me understand. The Nazis have taken your money. So because they've done this to you, you expect me to go unpaid. That's what you're saying.
max redlicht		That makes sense to you?
einsatz nco		I want you to spit on it. I want you to walk past, spit on it, and stand over there.
max redlicht		I haven't been to temple must be fifty years.  Nor have I been invited.
max redlicht		 You don't approve of the way I make my living? I'm a bad man, I do bad things?
max redlicht		I've done some things... but I won't do this.
einsatz nco		What does this mean? Of all of you, there's only one who has the guts to say no? One? And he doesn't even believe?  What won't you do?
einsatz nco		You, sir, I respect.
einsatz nco		The rest of you... ...are beneath his contempt.
polish girl		Goodbye, Jews.
pfefferberg		What's this?
goldberg		Ghetto Police. I'm a policeman now, can you believe it?
pfefferberg		Yeah, I can.
schindler		For each thousand you invest, you take from the loading dock five hundred kilos of product a month -- to begin in July and to continue for one year -- after which time, we're even.  That's it.
investor 1		Not good enough.
schindler		Not good enough? Look where you're living. Look where you've been put. "Not good enough."  A couple of months ago, you'd be right. Not anymore.
investor 1		Money's still money.
schindler		No, it isn't, that's why we're here.
schindler		Did I call this meeting? You told Mr. Stern you wanted to speak to me. I'm here. Now you want to negotiate? The offer's withdrawn.
investor 2		How do we know you'll do what you say?
schindler		Because I said I would. What do you want, a contract? To be filed where?  I said what I'll do, that's our contract.
stern		The standard SS rate for Jewish skilled labor is seven Marks a day, five for unskilled and women. This is what you pay the Economic Office, the laborers themselves receive nothing. Poles you pay wages. Generally, they get a little more. Are you listening?
schindler		What was that about the SS, the rate, the... ?
stern		The Jewish worker's salary, you pay it directly to the SS, not to the worker. He gets nothing.
schindler		But it's less. It's less than what I would pay a Pole. That's the point I'm trying to make. Poles cost more.
schindler		Why should I hire Poles?
teacher		I'm a teacher.
clerk		Not essential work, stand over there.
teacher		I'm a metal polisher.
clerk		Good.
scherner		I'd never ask you for money, you know that. I don't even like talking about it -- money, favors -- I find it very awkward, it makes me very uncomfortable --
schindler		No, look. It's the others. They're the ones causing these delays.
scherner		What others?
schindler		Whoever. They're the ones. They'd appreciate some kind of gesture from me.
schindler		I should send it to you, though, don't you think? You can forward it on? I'd be grateful.
scherner		That'd be fine.
schindler		Done. Let's not talk about it anymore, let's have a good time.
schindler		Sit down.
schindler		Oh, come on.
schindler		My father was fond of saying you need three things in life. A good doctor, a forgiving priest and a clever accountant. The first two...
schindler		 Just pretend for Christ's sake.
schindler		Thank you.
klonowska		Yes?
schindler		She's so embarrassed -- look at her --
schindler		You know what, you'd like her.
emilie		Oskar, please --
schindler		What --
emilie		I don't have to like her just because you do. It doesn't work that way.
schindler		You would, though. That's what I'm saying.
klonowska		Goodbye. It was a pleasure meeting you.
emilie		You've done well here.
schindler		You look great.
doorman		Careful of the pavement --
schindler		-- Mrs. Schindler.
schindler		Mrs. Schindler.
emilie		It's not a charade, all this?
schindler		A charade? How could it be a charade?
schindler		There's no way I could have known this before, but there was always something missing. In every business I tried, I see now it wasn't me that was failing, it was this thing, this missing thing. Even if I'd known what it was, there's nothing I could have done about it, because you can't create this sort of thing. And it makes all the difference in the world between success and failure.
emilie		Luck.
schindler		War.
schindler		What?
emilie		I feel like an old-fashioned couple. It feels good.
emilie		Should I stay?
schindler		 It's a beautiful city.
emilie		Should I stay?
schindler		 It's up to you.
emilie		No, it's up to you.
emilie		Promise me no doorman or maitre 'd will presume I am anyone other than Mrs. Schindler... and I'll stay.
clerks		Your luggage will follow you. Make sure it's clearly labeled. Leave your luggage on the platform.
foreman		Every other time it's been all right. This time when I weigh the truck, I see he's heavy, he's loaded too much. I point this out to him, I tell him to wait, he tells me he's got a new arrangement with Mr. Schindler --  -- that you know all about it and it's okay with you.
schindler		It's "okay" with me?
stern		How heavy was he?
foreman		Not that much, just too much for it to be a mistake -- 200 kilos.
schindler		 You're sure.
schindler		If you or anyone acting as an agent for you comes to my factory again, I'll have you arrested.
investor		It was a mistake.
schindler		It was a mistake? What was a mistake? How do you know what I'm talking about?
investor		All right, it wasn't a mistake, but it was one time.
schindler		We had a deal, you broke it. One phone call and your whole family is dead.
investor		I gave you money.
schindler		How you feeling, all right?
pfefferberg		Yeah.
schindler		What's the matter, everything all right at home?  Mila's okay?
pfefferberg		She's good.
schindler		Good.
schindler		I could try to read this or I could eat my lunch while it's till hot. We're doing well?
stern		Yes.
schindler		Better this month than last?
stern		Yes.
schindler		Any reason to think next month will be worse?
stern		The war could end.
schindler		 What?
stern		 There's a machinist outside who'd like to thank you personally for giving him a job.
stern		He asks every day. It'll just take a minute. He's very grateful.
stern		Mr. Lowenstein?
lowenstein		I want to thank you, sir, for giving me the opportunity to work.
schindler		You're welcome, I'm sure you're doing a great job.
lowenstein		The SS beat me up. They would have killed me, but I'm essential to the war effort, thanks to you.
schindler		That's great.
lowenstein		I work hard for you. I'll continue to work hard for you.
schindler		That's great, thanks.
lowenstein		God bless you, sir.
schindler		Yeah, okay.
lowenstein		You're a good man.
stern		Okay, Mr. Lowenstein.
lowenstein		He saved my life.
stern		Yes, he did.
lowenstein		God bless him.
stern		Yes.
schindler		Don't ever do that to me again.
stern		Do what?
schindler		Close the door.
toffel		It's got nothing to do with reality, Oskar, I know it and you know it, it's a matter of national priority to these guys. It's got a ritual significance to them, Jews shoveling snow.
schindler		I lost a day of production. I lost a worker. I expect to be compensated.
toffel		File a grievance with the Economic Office, it's your right.
schindler		Would it do any good?
toffel		No.
toffel		I think you're going to have to put up with a lot of snow shoveling yet.
toffel		A one-armed machinist, Oskar?
schindler		 He was a metal press operator, quite skilled.
schindler		Unlike your radiators -- and your boxes -- my products aren't for sale on the open market. This company has only one client, the German Army. And lately I've been having trouble fulfilling my obligations to my client. With your help, I hope the problem can be solved. The problem, simply, is space.
schindler		I'd like you to consider a proposal which I think you'll find equitable. I'd like you to think about it and get back to me as soon as --
kuhnpast		Excuse me -- do you really think this is appropriate?
kuhnpast		I can appreciate your problem. If I had any space I could lease you, I would. I don't. I'm sorry.
hohne		Me neither, sorry.
schindler		I don't want to lease your facilities, I want to buy them. I'm prepared to offer you fair market value. And to let you stay on, if you want, as supervisors.  On salary.
kuhnpast		You've got to be kidding.
kuhnpast		 Thanks for the drink.
schindler		You try to be fair to people, they walk out the door; I've never understood that. What's next?
stern		Christmas presents.
schindler		Ah, yes.
scherner		Oskar...
schindler		All right.
gestapo		We have a warrant to take your company's business records with us. And another to take you.
schindler		Am I permitted to have my secretary cancel my appointments for the day?
gestapo clerk		You live very well.
gestapo clerk		This standard of living comes entirely from legitimate sources, I take it?
gestapo clerk		As an SS supplier, you have a moral obligation to desist from blackmarket dealings. You're in business to support the war effort, not to fatten --
schindler		 You know? When my friends ask, I'd love to be able to tell them you treated me with the utmost courtesy and respect.
schindler		Chances of getting a bottle of vodka pretty good?
waffen guard		Yes, sir.
schindler		Wait a minute.
schindler		Pajamas.
guard		I'm sorry to disturb you, sir. Whenever you're ready, you're free to leave.
gestapo clerk		I'd advise you not to get too comfortable. Sooner or later, law prevails. No matter who your friends are.
schindler		You expect me to walk home, or what?
gestapo clerk		 Bring a car around for Mr. Schindler.
schindler		If you'd return the ledgers to my office I'd appreciate it.
schindler		Excuse me -- hey --  They're working.
clerk		Itzhak Stern?  He's on the list.
schindler		He is.
schindler		Well, let's find him.
clerk		He's on the list. If he were an essential worker, he would not be on the list. He's on the list. You can't have him.
schindler		I'm talking to a clerk.
schindler		What's your name?
clerk		Sir, the list is correct.
schindler		I didn't ask you about the list, I asked you your name.
clerk		Klaus Tauber.
clerk		The gentleman thinks a mistake's been made.
schindler		My plant manager is somewhere on this train. If it leaves with him on it, it'll disrupt production and the Armaments Board will want to know why.
sergeant		 Is he on the list?
clerk		Yes, sir.
sergeant		 The list is correct, sir. There's nothing I can do.
schindler		May as well get your name while you're here.
sergeant		My name? My name is Kunder. Sergeant Kunder. What's yours?
schindler		Schindler.
schindler		Sergeant, Mr. Tauber, thank you very much. I think I can guarantee you you'll both be in Southern Russia before the end of the month. Good evening.
schindler		There he is.
sergeant		Open it.
clerk		Initial it, please.  And this...
clerk		It makes no difference to us, you understand -- this one, that one. It's the inconvenience to the list. It's the paperwork.
stern		I somehow left my work card at home. I tried to tell them it was a mistake, but they --
stern		I'm sorry. It was stupid.  Thank you.
goeth		Make a nice driveway.
knude		This street divides the ghetto just about in half. On the right -- Ghetto A: civil employees, industry workers, so on. On the left, Ghetto B: surplus labor, the elderly mostly. Which is where you'll probably want to start.
knude		Of course that's entirely up to you.
hujar		She says the foundation was poured wrong, she's got to take it down. I told her it's a barracks, not a fucking hotel, fucking Jew engineer.
engineer		The entire foundation has to be dug up and re-poured. If it isn't, the thing will collapse before it's even completed.
goeth		 Shoot her.
goeth		You argued with my man.  Shoot her.
hujar		Sir...
goeth		I'm sure you're right.
goeth		That's somebody who knew what they were doing. That's somebody I needed.  Take it down, re-pour it, rebuild it, like she said.
goeth		Today is history. The young will ask with wonder about this day. Today is history and you are a part of it.
goeth		For six centuries, there has been a Jewish Cracow.
goeth		By this weekend, those six centuries, they're a rumor. They never happened. Today is history.
majola		 Amon... Christ...
hujar		Your machinery will be moved and installed by the SS at no cost to you. You will pay no rent, no maintenance --
schindler		No, no, come on, sit --
schindler		How you doing?
goeth		We started without you.
schindler		Good.
schindler		Please.
schindler		I miss anything important?
hujar		I was explaining to Mr. Bosch and Mr. Madritsch some of the benefits of moving their factories into Plaszow.
schindler		Oh, good, yeah.
hujar		Since your labor is housed on-site, it's available to you at all times. You can work them all night if you want. Your factory policies, whatever they've been in the past, they'll continue to be, they'll be respected --
schindler		I'm sorry.
goeth		You know, they told me you were going to be trouble -- Czurda and Scherner.
schindler		You're kidding.
goeth		He looks great, though, doesn't he? I have to know -- where do you get a suit like that? what is that, silk?  It's great.
schindler		I'd say I'd get you one but the guy who made it, he's probably dead, I don't know.
goeth		Something wonderful's happened, do you know what it is? Without planning it, we've reached that happy point in our careers where duty and financial opportunity meet.
schindler		I go to work the other day, there's nobody there. Nobody tells me about this, I have to find out, I have to go in, everybody's gone --
goeth		They're not gone, they're here.
schindler		They're mine!
schindler		Every day that goes by, I'm losing money. Every worker that is shot, costs me money -- I have to get somebody else, I have to train them --
goeth		We're going to be making so much money, none of this is going to matter --
schindler		 It's bad business.
goeth		 Occasionally, sure, okay, you got to make an example. But that's good business.
goeth		Scherner told me something else about you.
schindler		Yeah, what's that?
goeth		That you know the meaning of the word gratitude. That it's not some vague thing with you like with some guys.
schindler		True.
goeth		You want to stay where you are. You got things going on the side, things are good, you don't want anybody telling you what to do -- I can understand all that.  What you want is your own sub-camp.
goeth		Do you have any idea what's involved? The paperwork alone? Forget you got to build it all, getting the fucking permits, that's enough to drive you crazy. Then the engineers show up. They stand around and they argue about drainage -- I'm telling you, you'll want to shoot somebody, I've been through it, I know.
schindler		Well, you've been through it. You know. You could make things easier for me.
schindler		I'd be grateful.
ss officer		You have the Poles beat the Czechs, you have the Czechs beat the Poles, that way everybody stays in line.
schindler		All I have is Jews.
leo john		-- she's seventy years old, she's been there forever -- they bomb her house. Everything's gone. The furniture, everything.
schindler		 Thank God she wasn't there.
leo john		I was thinking maybe you could help her out. Some plates and mugs, some stew pots, I don't know. Say half a gross of everything?
schindler		She run an orphanage, your aunt?
leo john		She's old. What she can't use maybe she can sell.
schindler		You want it sent directly to her or through you?
leo john		Through me, I think. I'd like to enclose a card.
leo john		Your wife must be a saint.
schindler		She is.
goeth's girl		You're not a soldier?
schindler		No, dear.
czurda		There's a picture. Private Schindler? Blanket around his shoulders over in Kharkov?
goeth		Happened to what's his name -- up in Warsaw -- and he was bigger than you, Oskar.
czurda		Toebbens.
goeth		Happened to Toebbens. Almost. Himmler goes up to Warsaw, tells the armament guys, "Get the fucking Jews out of Toebbens' factory and put Toebbens in the army," and -- "and sent him to the Front." I mean, the Front.
goeth		It's true. Never happen in Cracow, though, we all love you too much.
schindler		I pay you too much.
schindler		You held back Stern. You held back the one man most important to my business.
goeth		He's important to my business.
schindler		What do you want for him, I'll give it to you.
goeth		I want him.  Come on, let's go inside, let's have a good time.
schindler		Here.
schindler		This, I don't know, maybe you can trade it for something.
stern		Thank you.
schindler		I got to go, I'll see you.
stern		Oskar --
stern		There's a guy. This thing happened. Goeth came into the metalworks --
goeth		What are you making?
levartov		Hinges, sir.
goeth		I got some workers coming in tomorrow... Where the hell they from again?
goldberg		Yugoslavia.
goeth		Yugoslavia. I got to make room.
goeth		Make me a hinge.
goeth		Another.
goeth		That's very good. What I don't understand, though, is -- you've been working since what, about six this morning? Yet such a small pile of hinges?
goeth		 Christ --
goeth		God damn it --
schindler		The guy can turn out a hinge in less than a minute? Why the long story?
levartov		Thank you, sir.
schindler		Oh, yeah. You're welcome.
goeth		Nobody knows who stole the chicken. A man walks around with a chicken, nobody notices this.
goeth		Still nobody knows.
goeth		There we go.
goeth		It was you? You committed this crime?
boy		No, sir.
goeth		You know who, though.
boy		Him!
schindler		Yeah, sure, bring him over.
boy		Thank you, sir.
schindler		 That's okay.
mechanic		Thank --
schindler		Yeah, yeah, yeah.
guard		He won't see you.
schindler		Miss Krause.
miss krause		How do you do?
schindler		Pernod? Cognac?
miss krause		No, thank you.
schindler		So.
miss krause		They say that no one dies here. They say your factory is a haven. They say you are good.
schindler		Who says that?
miss krause		Everyone.
miss krause		My name is Regina Perlman, not Elsa Krause. I've been living in Cracow on false papers since the ghetto massacre.  My parents are in Plaszow. They're old. They're killing old people in Plaszow now. They bury them up in the forest. I have no money. I borrowed these clothes. Will you bring them here?
schindler		I don't do that. You've been misled. I ask one thing: whether or not a worker has certain skills. That's what I ask and that's what I care about, get out of my office.
schindler		Cry and I'll have you arrested, I swear to God.
schindler		People die, it's a fact of life.
schindler		He wants to kill everybody? Great. What am I supposed to do, bring everybody over? Is that what you think? Yeah, send them over to Schindler, send them all. His place is a "haven," didn't you know? It's not a factory, it's not an enterprise of any kind, it's a haven for people with no skills whatsoever.
schindler		You think I don't know what you're doing? You're so quiet all the time? I know.
stern		 Are you losing money?
schindler		No, I'm not losing money, that's not the point.
stern		What other point is --
schindler		 It's dangerous. It's dangerous, to me, personally.
schindler		You have to understand, Goeth's under enormous pressure. You have to think of it in his situation. He's got this whole place to run, he's responsible for everything that goes on here, all these people -- he's got a lot of things to worry about. And he's got the war. Which brings out the worst in people. Never the good, always the bad. Always the bad. But in normal circumstances, he wouldn't be like this. He'd be all right. There'd be just the good aspects of him. Which is a wonderful crook. A guy who loves good food, good wine, the ladies, making money...
stern		And killing.
schindler		I'll admit it's a weakness. I don't think he enjoys it.  All right, he does enjoy it, so what? What do you expect me to do about it?
stern		There's nothing you can do. I'm not asking you to do anything. You came into my office.
schindler		Perlman, husband and wife.
schindler		Give it to Goldberg, have him send them over.
schindler		They don't fear us because we have the power to kill, they fear us because we have the power to kill arbitrarily. A man commits a crime, he should know better. We have him killed, we feel pretty good about it. Or we kill him ourselves and we feel even better. That's not power, though, that's justice. That's different than power. Power is when we have every justification to kill -- and we don't. That's power. That's what the emperors had. A man stole something, he's brought in before the emperor, he throws himself down on the floor, he begs for mercy, he knows he's going to die... and the emperor pardons him. This worthless man. He lets him go. That's power. That's power.
schindler		Amon the Good.
stable boy		I'm sorry, sir, I'm almost done.
goeth		Oh, that's all right.
worker		I have to report, sir, I've been unable to remove the stains from your bathtub.
goeth		What are you using?
worker		Soap, sir.
goeth		 Soap? Not lye?
goeth		Go ahead, go on, leave. I pardon you.
stern		If he didn't steal so much, I could hide it. If he's steal with some discretion...
stern		There are fifteen thousand people here --
goldberg		Goeth says there's twenty-five.
stern		There are fifteen. He wants to say sixteen, seventeen, all right, maybe he can get away with it, but ten thousand over? It's stupid.
goldberg		Stern, do me a favor, get out of here. You want to argue about it, go tell Goeth.
schindler		So you'll be rid of him.
stern		If Plaszow is closed, they'll have to send us somewhere else. Where -- who knows? Gross-Rosen maybe. Maybe Auschwitz.
schindler		I'll talk to him.
stern		I think it's too late.
schindler		Well, I'll talk to somebody. I'll take care of it.
schindler		What's he done that's so bad -- take money? That's a crime? Come on, what are we here for, to fight a war? We're here to make money, all of us.
toffel		There's taking money and there's taking money, you know that. He's taking money.
scherner		The place produces nothing. I shouldn't say that -- nothing it produces reaches the Army. That's not all right.
schindler		So I'll talk to him about it.
scherner		He's a friend of yours, you want to help him out. Tell me this, though -- has he ever once shown you his appreciation? I've yet to see it. Never a courtesy. Never a thank you note. He forgets my wife at Christmas time --
schindler		He's got no style, we all know that. So, we should hang him for it?
toffel		He's stealing from you, Oskar.
schindler		Of course he's stealing from me, we're in business together. What is this? I'm sitting here, suddenly everybody's talking like this is something bad. We take from each other, we take from the Army, everybody uses everybody, it works out, everybody's happy.
scherner		Not like him.
schindler		Yeah, well, in some eyes it doesn't matter the amount we steal, it's that we do it. Each of us sitting at this table.
scherner		He doesn't deserve your loyalty. More important, he's not worth you making threats against us.
schindler		Did I threaten anybody here? I stated a simple fact.
schindler		Come on, let's watch the girls.
factory girl		...On behalf of the workers... sir... I wish you a happy birthday...
schindler		Thank you.
schindler		Thank them for me.
goeth		My mechanic.
pfefferberg		What about my wife?
boy's voice		This is our place.
goeth		I tried to call you, I'm running a little late, this is taking longer than I thought. Have a drink.
schindler		What's going on?
goeth		I got a shipment of Hungarians coming in, I got to make room for them. It's always something.
goeth		They're complaining now? They don't know what complaining is.
schindler		What do you say we get your fire brigade out here and hose down the cars?
goeth		Bring the fire trucks!
hujar		What?
goeth		This is really cruel, Oskar, you're giving them hope. You shouldn't do that, that's cruel.
schindler		I've got some 200-meter hoses back at D.E.F., we can reach the cars down at the end.
goeth		Hujar!
guard		What does he think he's saving them from?
goeth		Oh, my God.
schindler		I'm not saying you'll regret it, but you might. I want you to be aware of that.
gestapo 1		We'll risk it.
schindler		All right, sure, it's a nice day, I'll go for a drive with you guys.
schindler		Where are we going?
schindler		I violated the Race and Resettlement Act. Though I doubt they can point out the actual provision to me.  I kissed a Jewish girl.
goeth		He likes women. He likes good-looking women. He sees a good-looking woman, he doesn't think. This guy has so many women. They love him. He's married, he's got all these women. All right, she was Jewish, he shouldn't have done it. But you didn't see this girl. I saw this girl. This girl was very good-looking.
goeth		They cast a spell on you, you know, the Jews. You work closely with them like I do, you see this. They have this power, it's like a virus. Some of my men are infected with this virus. They should be pitied, not punished. They should receive treatment, because this is as real as typhus. I see this all the time.
goeth		It's a matter of money? We can discuss that. That'd be all right with me.
ss colonel		You're offering me a bribe?
goeth		A "bribe?" No, no, please come on... a gratuity.
scherner		Sit down.
scherner		Hello, Amon.
goeth		Sir.
ss officer		I want to hear "Gloomy Sunday" again.
scherner		We give you Jewish girls at five marks a day, Oskar, you should kiss us, not them.
goeth		God forbid you ever get a real taste for Jewish skirt. There's no future in it. No future. They don't have a future. And that's not just good old- fashioned Jew-hating talk. It's policy now.
ss officer		"Gloomy Sunday" again.
treblinka guy		-- We can process at Treblinka, if everything is working? I don't know, maybe two thousand units a day.
treblinka guy		Now Auschwitz. Now you're talking. What I got is nothing, it's like a... a machine. Auschwitz, though, now there's a death factory. There, they know how to do it. There, they know what they're doing.
goeth		Enough -- Jesus -- God --
goeth		Can you believe this?
goeth		I'm trying to live my life, they come up with this? I got to find every body buried up here? And burn it?
schindler		You took my workers.
goeth		 Auschwitz.
schindler		When?
goeth		I don't know. Soon.
goeth		This is good. I'm out of business and he's catching tadpoles with his son.
schindler		Hey, how you doing?
schindler		Let me buy you a drink.
schindler		How do you do?  What can I get you, what're you drinking?
schindler		Things worked out. I made some money over there, had some laughs, you know. It was good.
schindler		Now I'm back, and you know what I'm going to do now? I'm going to have a good time. So are you.
girl		Who is he?
schindler		Goddamn it.
goeth		You want these people.
schindler		These people, my people, I want my people.
goeth		What are you, Moses? What is this? Where's the money in this? What's the scam?
schindler		It's good business.
goeth		Oh, this is "good business" in your opinion. You've got to move them, the equipment, everything to Czechoslovakia -- it doesn't make any sense.
schindler		Look --
goeth		You're not telling me something.
schindler		It's good for me -- I know them, I'm familiar with them. It's good for you -- you'll be compensated. It's good for the Army. You know what I'm going to make?
schindler		Artillery shells. Tank shells. They need that. Everybody's happy.
goeth		Yeah, sure.
goeth		You're probably scamming me somehow. If I'm making a hundred, you got to be making three.
goeth		If you admit to making three, then it's four, actually. But how?
schindler		I just told you.
goeth		You did, but you didn't.
goeth		Yeah, all right, don't tell me, I'll go along with it, it's just irritating to me I can't figure it out.
schindler		All you have to do is tell me what it's worth to you. What's a person worth to you.
goeth		What's one worth to you? That's the question.
schindler		Poldek Pfefferberg... Mila Pfefferberg...
goeth		A virus...
schindler		You can do the same thing I'm doing. There's nothing stopping you.
madritsch		I've done enough for the Jews.
schindler		The investors.
schindler		All of them. Szerwitz, his family.
stern		Four hundred, four fifty --
schindler		More.
schindler		 Give or take what, Stern -- how many -- count them.
schindler		That's it.
schindler		You can finish that page.
stern		What did Goeth say? You just told him how many you needed?
schindler		I'm buying them. I'm paying him. I give him money, he gives me the people.  If you were still working for me I'd expect you to talk me out of it, it's costing me a fortune.
schindler		Give him the list, he'll sign it, he'll get the people ready. I have to go back to Brinnlitz, to take care of things on that end, I'll see you there.
schindler		Finish the page.
schindler		This is my home.
schindler		I was born here, my wife was born here, my mother is buried here, this is my home.
schindler		Do you really think I'd bring a thousand Jewish criminals into my home?
schindler		These are skilled munitions workers -- they are essential to the war effort --
schindler		-- It is my duty to supervise them -- and it is your duty to allow me --
prisoner		Am I on the list?
goldberg		What list is that?
goldberg		The good list? Well, that depends, doesn't it?
goldberg		Hey, Poldek, how's it going?  You know about the list? You're on it.
pfefferberg		Of course I'm on it.
goldberg		You want to stay on it? What do you got for me?
pfefferberg		What do I got for you?
goldberg		Takes diamonds to stay on this list.
pfefferberg		I'll kill you, that's what I got for you.
goldberg		All right, all right, all right.
schindler		You'll be interested to know I received a cable this morning from the Personnel Office, Plaszow. The women have left. They should be arriving here sometime tomorrow.
woman		Where are the clerks?
schindler		They're in Auschwitz.
gestapo		Your friend Amon Goeth has been arrested.
schindler		 I'm sorry to hear that.
gestapo		There are some things that are unclear. We need to talk.
schindler		I'd love to, it'll have to wait until I get back. I have to leave.
schindler		All right, okay, let's talk.
gestapo		In Breslau.
schindler		Breslau? I can't go to Breslau. Not now.
young doctor		How old are you, Mother?
woman		 Sir, a mistake's been made. We're not supposed to be here, we work for Oskar Schindler. We're Schindler Jews.
young doctor		And who on earth is Oskar Schindler?
plaszow guard		He had a factory in Cracow. Enamelware.
young doctor		A potmaker?
investigator		Everything you say will be held in confidence. You are not under investigation. You are not under investigation. Mr. Goeth is. He is being held on charges of embezzlement and racketeering. You're here at his request to corroborate his denials. Our information onto his financial speculations comes from many sources. On his behalf there is only you. We know you are close friends. We know this is hard for you. But we must ask you --
schindler		He stole our country blind.
mila		Where's Schindler now?
hoss		You're right, a clerical error has bee made.  Let me offer you this in apology for the inconvenience. I have a shipment coming in tomorrow, I'll cut you three hundred from it. New ones. These are fresh.
hoss		The train comes, we turn it around, it's yours.
schindler		I appreciate it. I want these.
hoss		You shouldn't get stuck on names.
hoss		That's right, it creates a lot of paperwork.
schindler		These are mine. They're on the list. These are my workers. They should be on the train.
schindler		They're skilled munition workers. They're essential.
guard		They're boys.
schindler		Yes.
schindler		Their fingers. They polish the insides of shell casings. How else do you expect me to polish the inside of a 45 millimeter shell casing?
schindler		Under Department W provisions, it is unlawful to kill a worker without just cause. Under the Businesses Compensation Fund I am entitled to file damage claims for such deaths. If you shoot without thinking, you go to prison and I get paid, that's how it works. So there will be no summary executions here. There will be no interference of any kind with production. In hopes of ensuring that, guards will no longer be allowed on the factory floor without my authorization.
schindler		For your cooperation, you have my gratitude.
schindler		How's it going?
worker		Good. It's taken a while to calibrate the machines, but it's going good now.
schindler		Good.
schindler		This isn't right, is it?
schindler		There. That looks right.
schindler		How's it going, Rabbi?
levartov		Good, sir.
schindler		Sun's going down.
schindler		It is Friday, isn't it?
levartov		Is it?
schindler		You should be preparing for the Sabbath, shouldn't you? What are you doing here?
schindler		I've got some wine in my office. Why don't we go over there, I'll give it to you. Come on, let's go.
schindler		Come on.
guard		What is that?
schindler		I want you to come work for me.
schindler		You don't have to live with me, I wouldn't ask that.  It's a nice place. You'd like it. It looks awful. You get used to that.
schindler		All right --  We can spend time together that way. We can see each other, see how it goes -- without the strain of -- whatever you want to call it when a man, a husband and a wife go out to dinner, go have a drink, go to a party, you know. This way we'll see each other at work, there we are, same place, we see how it goes...
schindler		Itzhak Stern, Emilie Schindler. My wife.
stern		How do you do?
emilie		How do you do?
stern		Stern is my accountant and friend.
schindler		Emilie's offered to work in the clinic. To... work there.
stern		 That's very generous of you.
schindler		Yes.
stern		It was a pleasure meeting you.
emilie		Pleasure meeting you.
schindler		Can you fix it? The radio.
pfefferberg		What's wrong with it?
schindler		How should I know? It's broken. See what you can do.
stern		We need to talk.
schindler		Stern.
stern		They arrived.
schindler		They arrived, can you believe it?
stern		We've received a complaint from the Armaments Board. A very angry complaint. The artillery shells, the tank shells, rocket casings -- apparently all of them -- have failed quality-control tests.
schindler		Well, that's to be expected. They have to understand. These are start- up problems. This isn't pots and pans, this is a precise business. I'll write them a letter.
stern		They're withholding payment.
schindler		Well, sure. So would I. So would you. I wouldn't worry about it. We'll get it right one of these days.
stern		There's a rumor you've been going around miscalibrating the machines.  I don't think that's a good idea.
schindler		 No?
stern		They could close us down.
schindler		All right. Call around, find out where we can buy shells and buy them. We'll pass them off as ours.
stern		I know what you're saying, but I don't see the difference.
schindler		You don't? I do. I see a difference.
stern		You'll lose money. That's one difference.
schindler		Fewer shells will be made.
schindler		Stern, if this factory ever produces a shell that can actually be fired... I'll be very unhappy.
liepold		Department W does not forbid my presence on the factory floor. That is a lie.
schindler		Shoot him. Shoot him!
schindler		Shoot him without a hearing. Come on.
liepold		He sabotaged the machine.
schindler		The machine's broken?
liepold		The prisoner is under the jurisdiction of Section D. I'll preside over the hearing.
schindler		But the machine.
schindler		The machine is under the authorization of the Armaments Inspectorate. I will preside over the hearing.
janek		I'm unfamiliar with the Hilo machines. I don't know why I was assigned there.
schindler		If you're not skilled at armaments work, you shouldn't be here.
janek		I'm a lathe operator.
janek		Sir?
janek		I did adjust the pressure controls.
schindler		What?
janek		I know that much about them. Somebody had set the pressure controls wrong. I had to adjust --
schindler		The stupidity of these people. I wish they were capable of sabotaging a machine.
schindler		Get him out of my sight.
schindler		 Isn't this nice.
rasch		Oskar, good of you to come.
schindler		Are you kidding, I never miss a party. Police Chief Rasch, my wife Emilie.
rasch		How do you do?
emilie		You have a lovely home. It is nice. Big.
rasch		Thank you.
schindler		I need a drink.
rasch		Oh, God, you don't have a drink?
schindler		 Wine?
rasch		Your husband's a very generous man.
emilie		 He's always been.
schindler		I need guns.
schindler		One of these days the Russians are going to show up unannounced at my gate. I'd like the chance to defend myself. I'd like my wife to have that chance. My civilian engineers. My secretary.
rasch		 We're losing the war, aren't we.
schindler		It kind of looks that way.
rasch		 Pistols?
schindler		Pistols, rifles, carbines ...  I'd be grateful.
schindler		 Careful.
schindler		Stern.
stern		Excuse me.
stern		I'll talk to you later.
schindler		No, no, what, what is it?
stern		Do you have any money I don't know about? Hidden away someplace?
schindler		No.
schindler		Why, am I broke?
schindler		It's been suggested I cremate them in my furnaces. As a Catholic I will not. As a human being I will not.
priest		There's an area beyond the church reserved for the burial of suicides. Maybe I can convince the parish council to allow them to be buried there.
schindler		These aren't suicides.
schindler		These are victims of a great murder.
stern		What's he doing here?
schindler		Probably looking for a handout.
goeth		Thank you.
goeth		Where are the guards?
schindler		The guards aren't allowed on the factory floor. They make my workers nervous.
schindler		I'll discipline him later.
schindler		It's time the guards came into the factory.
schindler		The unconditional surrender of Germany has just been announced. At midnight tonight the war is over.
schindler		Tomorrow, you'll begin the process of looking for survivors of your families. In many cases you won't find them. After six long years of murder, victims are being mourned throughout the world.
schindler		We've survived. Some of you have come up to me and thanked me. Thank yourselves. Thank your fearless Stern, and others among you, who, worrying about you, have faced death every moment.  Thank you.
schindler		You've shown extraordinary discipline. You've behaved humanely here. You should be proud.
schindler		I'm a member of the Nazi party. I'm a munitions manufacturer. I'm a profiteer of slave labor, I'm a criminal. At midnight, you will be free and I will be hunted.  I'll remain with you until five minutes after midnight After which time, and I hope you'll forgive me, I have to flee.
schindler		In memory of the countless victims among your people, I ask us to observe three minutes of silence.
schindler		I know you've received orders from our Commandant -- which he has received from his superiors -- to dispose of the population of this camp.
schindler		Now would be the time to do it. They're all here. This is your opportunity.
schindler		Or...  ...you could leave. And return to your families as men instead of murderers.
levartov		We've written a letter trying to explain things. In case you're captured. Every worker has signed it.
schindler		Thank you.
stern		It's Hebrew. It says, 'Whoever saves one life, saves the world.'
schindler		 I could've got more out...
schindler		 I could've got more... if I'd just... I don't know, if I'd just... I could've got more...
stern		Oskar, there are twelve hundred people who are alive because of you. Look at them.
schindler		If I'd made more money... I threw away so much money, you have no idea. If I'd just...
stern		There will be generations because of what you did.
schindler		I didn't do enough.
stern		You did so much.
schindler		This car. Goeth would've bought this car. Why did I keep the car? Ten people, right there, ten more I could've got.  This pin --
schindler		Two people. This is gold. Two more people. He would've given me two for it. At least one. He would've given me one. One more. One more person. A person, Stern. For this. One more. I could've gotten one more person I didn't.
schindler		They killed so many people...  They killed so many people...
partisan		It's all over.
pfefferberg		We know.
partisan		 So what are you doing? You're free to go home.
pfefferberg		When the Russians arrive. Until then we're staying here.
ss nco		Hello?
russian		You have been liberated by the Soviet Army.
russian		What's wrong?
worker		Have you been in Poland?
russian		I just came from Poland.
worker		Are there any Jews left?
worker		Where should we go?
russian		I don't know. Don't go east, that's for sure, they hate you there.  I wouldn't go west either if I were you.
worker		We could use some food.
russian		Isn't that a town over there?
schindler		Hey, how you doing?
pfefferberg		Good. How's it going?
schindler		Things are great, things are great.
pfefferberg		What are you doing?
schindler		I'm having a drink, come on in, we'll have a drink.
pfefferberg		I mean where have you been? Nobody's seen you around for a while.
schindler		 I've been here. I guess I haven't been out.
pfefferberg		I thought maybe you'd like to come over, have some dinner, some of the people are coming over.
schindler		Yeah? Yeah, that'd be nice, let me get my coat.
schindler's voice		Mila's good?
pfefferberg's voice		She's good.
schindler's voice		Kids are good? Let's stop at a store on the way so I can buy them something.
pfefferberg's voice		They don't need anything. They just want to see you.
schindler's voice		Yeah, I know. I'd like to pick up something for them. It'll only take a minute.
****Dialogues from script :Scott_Pilgrim_vs_the_World.txt****

stephen stills		Really? Is she hot? KIM PINE, 22, cute, bitter, sweatshirt with a zipper.
kim pine		How old are you now, Scott? Like twenty-eight?
scott		I'm not playing your little games.
kim pine		So you've been out of high school for like, 13 years and-
stephen stills		And you're dating a high school girl? Not bad, not bad. YOUNG NEIL, 20, simple mind, layered T-shirts.
young neil		Like, did you guys 'do it' yet? SCOTT PILGRIM, 22, fresh faced and charmingly cocky with an unruly yet adorable mop of hair.
scott		We have done many things. We ride the bus. We have meaningful conversations about how yearbook club went and about her friends and, um...you know...drama.
stephen stills		Yeah, okay, have you even kissed her?
scott		We almost held hands once, but then she got embarrassed.
kim pine		Well. Aren't you pleased as punch?
stephen stills		So, what's her name?
scott		 Knives Chau. She's Chinese.
stephen stills		 Chinese... Young Neil pauses his Nintendo DS.
young neil		Wicked! How'd you meet her?
scott		I believe I mentioned the bus? Scott Pilgrim prepares to tell an amazing story:
mother chau		You are seventeen year old! Time to get interested in boy!
knives chau		Mom! Knives DROPS her bag, books scattering everywhere.
mother chau		You drop book. Knives crouches down to pick up her books, grumbling.
kim pine		Is that seriously the end of the story?
scott		Yes. It is. Young Neil unpauses his Nintendo DS.
stephen stills		So when do we get to meet her?
kim pine		Oh please. Let it be soon. DINGY DONG! The doorbell rings. Scott smiles broadly.
scott		That's for me.
scott		You promise to be good?
knives chau		Of course I'll be good!
scott		No, really. Please be good.
knives chau		Am I normally not? Stephen Stills comes to the door and peers through.
scott		Oh, hey. Knives, this is Stephen Stills. He's the talent.
stephen stills		Hey. STILLS shuts the door on a confused Knives.
stephen stills		Is she gonna geek out on us?
scott		She'll just sit in the corner, man.
stephen stills		I mean, I want her to geek out on us.
scott		She'll geek. She geeks. She has the capacity to geek.
stephen stills		You're good.
knives chau		Wow.
scott		Knives, that's Kim. Lemme get your coat. Scott throws Knives' coat on the floor. Knives waves.
knives chau		Hi, sorry, what was your name?
knives chau		You play the drums? REVEAL Kim sitting behind the drumset, sticks in her hands.
kim pine		...yes.
knives chau		That is so awesome.
scott		Knives, that's Young Neil.
knives chau		Hi. What do you play?
young neil		Uh, wow...Zelda...Tetris...that's kind of a big question. Knives stares blankly at Young Neil, who finally gets it.
young neil		Oh. I'm not in the band. I just live here. Sex Bob-Omb has geared up. Amps hum to life.
scott		Let's start with Launchpad McQuack.
stephen stills		That's not the actual title of the-
knives chau		You guys...are so...amazing.
knives chau		I can't even...Sex Bob-Omb. Amazing.
stephen stills		She seems nice.
scott		Yeaaah.
young neil		She seems awesome.
scott		Yeaaah.
kim pine		Scott, if your life had a face I would punch it.
scott		Yeaaah...wait, what?
kim pine		I mean, are you really happy or are you really evil?
scott		Like, do I have ulterior motives or something? I'm offended, Kim.
stephen stills		Wounded even?
scott		Hurt, Kim.
kim pine		You? Hurt? Scott takes a breath, turns to Young Neil.
scott		Neil, you were saying she seems awesome.
young neil		Yeah, she seems awesome.
scott		Yeaaaah...
scott		Before you hear some dirty lies from someone else, yes, I'm dating a 17 year old. Wallace looks up from the NOW magazine he's reading.
wallace		Is he cute?
scott		Ha, ha, ha, ha.
wallace		Does this mean we have to stop sleeping together?
scott		Do you see another bed in here? TINY BOXES OF TEXT indicate the ownership of the items in the one room flat: 95% belongs to Wallace, FUTON included.
wallace		Yeah. You're totally my bitch forever.
scott		So. The whole seventeen year old thing. Don't tell too many people.
wallace		Hey, you know me.
scott		I mean. Don't tell my sister.
wallace		You know me. Wallace tosses the NOW magazine aside, starts texting.
scott		Who are you texting? RINGY RING. The phone goes. Scott picks up.
scott		That's not true. Who told you?
stacey		Wallace. Duh.
scott		That gossipy bitch.
scott		Wallace! Wallace clicks off. Scott sinks into an armchair.
stacey		Who is this mysterious child you date?
scott		Her name is Knives. Knives Chau.
stacey		A seventeen year old Chinese schoolgirl? You're ridiculous.
scott		It's a Catholic school too.
stacey		With the uniform and everything?
scott		Yeah, the whole deal.
stacey		Oh my God, you haven't-
scott		No no no. We haven't even held hands. I think she hugged me once.
stacey		Um, Scott. Why are you doing this?
scott		I don't know...it's just nice, you know? It's just...simple.
stacey		It's been over a year since you got dumped by she-who-will-not-be-named. Scott glances down at the partially obscured NOW magazine, looking into the HOT GIRL'S EYES on the back cover album ad.
scott		Can I get back to you on that? A SCHOOL BELL clangs loudly...
wallace		I do not want to be here. At all.
scott		This school has boys too.
wallace		I hate you. Even I would think twice about dating a seventeen year old.
scott		Well, she's only allowed out when the sun is up, so I wouldn't call it dating, more like...
wallace		Playtime?
scott		That doesn't sound so good either.
scott		Hey Knives, this is my cool gay roommate, Wallace Wells. He's gay.
knives chau		Oh, hi! Do you want to know who in my class is gay?
wallace		Yes. Does he wear glasses?
scott		Wallace, you go now! Begone! Wallace pulls Knives close. Whispers.
wallace		You're too good for him. Run.
scott		Did you know the original name of Pac- man was Puck-man? You would think it's because Pac-Man looks like a yellow hockey puck, but actually it comes from the Japanese phrase paku-paku which means to flap ones mouth open and closed. They changed it over here because Puck-Man is too easy to vandalize. You know, scratch out the P and turn it into an F or whatever? Knives flips over Scott's back in a COMBO move.
knives chau		Ohmigod, like...wow.
scott		Yeah. Wow. The game ends. CONTINUE appears, counting down: 10...9...8... Scott looks at Knives. She digs for quarters.
knives chau		Oh, I got it!
knives chau		Tamara is into this Korean guy, Bobby, but everyone thinks Bobby has a crush on Mina.
scott		I thought Derek and Tamara had a mutual like-each-other thing going, what happened?
knives chau		I don't listen to much music. I know a lot of kids who play piano or whatever, but you guys ROCK.
scott		I knew I personally rocked, but I never suspected that we rocked as a unit. Thank you, Knives.
knives chau		I mean, you guys are gonna be HUGE.
scott		Well, we're already pretty big. But it might be cool if cool people wore our T-shirt. Knives speaks to a female clerk, surly with tats and specs:
knives chau		Excuse me, do you have anything by 'The Clash At Demonhead'?
julie		Have you tried the section marked 'The Clash At Demonhead'?
scott		Thank you, Julie.
julie		Are you coming to my party Friday or will you be busy babysitting?
scott		Thank you, Julie.
knives chau		Oh, I heart them so much.
scott		I hearted them too until they signed to a major label and the singer turned into a total bitch and ruined my life. But that's just me.
scott		Sorry, you were saying about me?
knives chau		I mean, I've...I've never gone out with someone so talented.
scott		You go out with a lot of guys?
knives chau		...no.
scott		Yeah, so whatever, man!
knives chau		I've never even kissed a guy. Knives blushes and looks at the ground. Scott hugs her.
scott		Me neither.
knives chau		So this is your secret lair? Can I come in?
scott		My secret lair is one of those 'no girls allowed' deals.
knives chau		Oh, okay.
scott		But do you want to see the house where I grew up?
knives chau		Sure. They literally walk across the street to a small house.
scott		Here you go.
knives chau		Wow.
scott		Yeah. Wow. Wind blows. The light snowfall turns into sand...
scott		Oh God...so...so alone. A MYSTERIOUS GIRL rollerblades across the shifting sands. She wears fishnets, an army jacket, skirt and goggles. Her pink hair is funky but cool. She is hotter than the desert sun.
mysterious girl		You're not alone. You're just having some idiotic dream.
scott		Does that mean we can make out? But she's gone...
scott		Oh God... Wallace wakes up to the left of Scott, rubbing his eyes.
wallace		What is it, Scott?
scott		I had this totally weird dream.
other voice		Oh God.
wallace		What is it, Scott? A scruffy, goateed guy wakes right between Scott and Wallace:
other scott		Can we skip the dreamtime? Color me not interested.
scott		But there was this girl...
wallace		Girl?
other scott		Was this an Envy related dream?
wallace		We don't use the E-word in this house.
scott		No, it wasn't her. It was somebody new...
other scott		Yay for that. Other Scott goes back to sleep. Wallace rubs his eyes.
wallace		Speaking of new, weren't you supposed to take your fake high school girlfriend to the library a half-hour ago?
scott		What? It's like, six in the morning. Scott opens the bathroom door. Sunlight ignites the room.
knives chau		What's wrong?  
scott		Libraries remind me of grade school.
knives chau		That must seem like a reeeeally long time ago.
scott		Uh. Let's talk about something else. The hiss of ball bearings catches Scott's attention. He freezes as he sees THE ROLLERBLADING GIRL FROM HIS DREAM skating towards the desk in SEXALICIOUS SLOW MOTION.
knives chau		Do you know that girl? The Rollerblading Girl delivers a package from AMAZON.CA to the librarian. Scott's gaze follows the GIRL as she blades out of the library. Pensive guitar underscores his thoughts.
knives chau		Scott? Scott continues to stare at the girl. Time slows to a crawl.
stephen stills		You only played one note for that entire song.
scott		It was...uh...my hand slipped.
kim pine		Is your girlfriend distracting you?
scott		My girlfriend? A meek Knives sits next to Young Neil on the couch.
knives chau		I'll... I'll be quieter.
stephen stills		Let's do that one again.
scott		Sorry, what are we doing?
stephen stills		I told you like fifty times! Scott, Kim Pine, Stephen Stills and Young Neil walk down an icy Toronto street. Scott's head is still in the clouds.
kim pine		We're going to this party, retard.
scott		Party?
young neil		At Julie's.
scott		Ugh. I thought you guys split.
stephen stills		We did. But, you know, there may be some label guys there, so...
scott		Aw, man. This is going to suck.
kim pine		At least it will give us something to complain about.
scott		Awww maaan...
scott		...this sucks.
young neil		Sucks.
scott		I'm going to go pee due to boredom. Scott exits frame.
young neil		I have to pee.
scott		Hey Comeau.
comeau		Hey Scott. Some party huh? You gettin' your drink on?
scott		This is Coke Zero. I don't drink.
comeau		You don't drink? I remember you getting ridiculously drunk off two G&T's one time and-
comeau		Pretty much.
scott		Do you know this one girl with hair like this? Scott sketches an incomprehensible drawing of Ramona.
comeau		Yeah man. Ramona Flowers. Someone said she was coming tonight actually.
comeau		You got the hots for her? I hear she's hardcore... Scott has already left a Scott-shaped dust cloud...
scott		Hey, what's up?
ramona		Nothing.
scott		Hey, you know Pacman?
ramona		I know of him. Scott begins to babble.
scott		Well you know Pac-Man was originally Puckman but not because Pac-Man looks like a hockey puck and paku-paku-paku means flapping your mouth and they changed it because if you scratch out the "P" and turn it into an "F'? You know? Like...
ramona		Yeah that's amazing.
scott		Um...am I dreaming? Ramona looks at Scott blankly. He slowly skulks away.
scott		DUDE. What do you know about Ramona Flowers?!
comeau		All I know is she's American.
comeau		But you should talk to Sandra and
scott		LADYDUDES! What do you know about Ramona Flowers?
monique		I think she has a boyfriend.
sandra		Some guy back in New York.
monique		Doesn't she have the most ridiculous name?
sandra		I know. It's so 'Ramona Quimby, Aged 8' and yet...Flowers. The girls laugh. Scott does not.
scott		Yeah. What else? JUMP CUT through a FLURRY OF FACES as Scott asks everyone
julie		What about Ramona Flowers?
scott		You know her? Tell me. Now.
julie		She just moved here. Got a job with Amazon. Comes into my work.
scott		Does she really?
stephen stills		Didn't you say she just broke up with someone, Jools?
scott		Did she reeally?
stephen stills		That they had a huge fight or whatever?
scott		Did they reeeally?
julie		...yes. But I didn't want Scott to know that, Stephen.
scott		Yeah, I don't know what it is about that girl, she just-
julie		Scott, I forbid you from hitting on Ramona. Even if you haven't had a real girlfriend in over a year-
stephen stills		Hey whoa, whoa. Scott's mourning period is officially over. He's totally dating a high schooler.
julie		Dating a high schooler is the mourning period.
stephen stills		She's got a point.
scott		I thought you guys broke up.
julie		I don't want you scaring off the coolest girl at my party Scott. We all know you're a total lady killer wannabe jerky jerk.
scott		That's garbage! Completely untrue.
julie		That time with Lisa-
scott		Misunderstanding.
julie		That time with Hollie-
scott		Not what it looked like!
julie		That time you dumped Kim for-
scott		Hey, me and Kim are all good now. SCOTT looks to KIM. We hear the sound of arctic winds.
julie		Whatever, Ramona is out of your league, let's leave it at that.
julie		Forget it Scott!!!
wallace		Guess who's druuunk?
scott		I guess Wallace.
wallace		You guess right. Wallace flops onto the futon, landing next to Scott.
scott		So, that girl. From my dream.
wallace		Girl. Okay...
scott		I saw her at the library...
wallace		Library...can I pretend we're talking about a guy?
scott		So then I'm at this party, and hey! There she is.
wallace		There he is.
scott		I think she's...
wallace		You think he's...
scott		I think she's the girl of my dreams.
wallace		Mmm. Then you should break up with your fake high school girlfriend.
scott		I've never been so sure about something.
wallace		Then you should break up with your fake high school girlfriend.
scott		What's that?
wallace		Break...up...fake...high school...girlfriend...
scott		I'm not getting it, friend. Wallace drifts off. RINGY RING! Scott answers. INTERCUT with STACEY sitting on a bus on her cellphone.
stacey		You're thinking of juggling two chicks!?
scott		Not even!
stacey		Well, you should break up with your fake high school girlfriend.
scott		Wait. Who told you?
stacey		Duh. Wallace.
scott		He's not even conscious!
stacey		Whatever. You of all people should know how sucky it is to get cheated on.
scott		Don't you have a job to do?
stacey		You're right. I should send out a mass text about this. Bye. Scott looks to Wallace, who is out cold, cellphone in hand.
scott		Wallace, how do you do that? HARD CUT to MORNING LIGHT filling the room!
wallace		...Amazon.ca.
scott		Awesome! I have to order something reeeally cool.
computer		"You've got mail!"
scott		Dude! This thing claims I have mail!
wallace		It's amazing what they can do with computers these days.
scott		Dude! Now I'm reading it!
wallace		I'm so happy for you.
scott		"Dear Mr. Pilgrim, It has come to my attention that we will be fighting soon. My name is Matthew Patel, and I'm" blah blah 'fair warning' blah blah...hmm. This is...this is...THIS IS...!!!
scott		This is boring. Delete! 'CLICK.' Scott walks to the front door. Moments pass.
wallace		Scott. Are you waiting for the package you just ordered?
scott		Maybe.
wallace		It's the weekend. It won't ship until Monday at the earliest.
scott		You were saying? Scott opens the door. It's KNIVES CHAU!
scott		Heyyy...
knives chau		Attack hug! Knives smothers Scott.
scott		Attack hug. That's cute. He plasters on his best fake smile.
knives chau		Remember you were supposed to meet me at the bus stop a half-hour ago?
scott		How could I possibly forget?
knives chau		Yearbook club is getting SO boring. I cannot believe the music they put on while we work.
scott		That's sucky.
knives chau		Hannah broke up with Alan and now she's all into Derek...
scott		Uh huh.
knives chau		...but Tamara claims she has dibs on Derek.
scott		I tell ya'.
knives chau		Combo! Knives goes to flip over Scott, but he messes up. THE MIRROR IMAGE of Scott's videogame avatar appears on screen.
knives chau		Uh oh, NegaNinja. NEGANINJA - squares up against Scott's avatar.
scott		I can never get past that guy. Scott has his little videogame head cut off. The 'CONTINUE?'
knives chau		Do you want to keep going? Scott takes a long look at Knives.
scott		Um, I think...I think...
stephen stills		Game on, everybody. Game. On. An excited Stills addresses Sex Bob-Omb. Scott tunes his bass, alone by the window, staring out.
stephen stills		I got us a show.
stephen stills		Wednesday, The Rockit. And even better? It's the T.I.B.B.
knives chau		The Toronto International Battle of The Bands?!
stephen stills		S'right. This guy at work was like "Steve, do you know anyone in a band?" and I was like 'I'm in a band' and he was like 'You're in a band?' and I was like 'Yeah I'm totally in a band'-
kim pine		Great story, man.
knives chau		Is there a prize or something?!
stephen stills		Only a record deal with G-man Graves!
scott		What? Who?
knives chau		You don't know?
stephen stills		Indie Producer of the millennium?!
scott		Oh.
young neil		Whoa. Stills gestures to Knives' home-made Sex Bob-Omb T-shirt.
stephen stills		If we win...it won't just be Knives wearing a Sex Bob-Omb shirt. It'll be the cool kids too. Knives can barely contain herself. She grabs Scott.
knives chau		I will do everything I can to get out of study group and come.
scott		Sure. Great. We follow Scott as he walks in a daze to the bathroom.
kim pine		Yeah that's the one.
young neil		I hate them!
scott		Hi, um, I was thinking about asking you out, but then I realized how stupid that would be.
ramona		Um, no, that's okay. You just have to sign for this alright?
scott		I just woke up, and you were in my dream. I dreamt you were delivering me this package. Is that weird?
ramona		It's not weird at all.
scott		It's not?
ramona		No, it's just like, you've got this really convenient subspace highway running through your head that I like to use. It's like three miles in fifteen seconds.
scott		Right...
ramona		Oh yeah. I forgot you guys don't have that in Canada.
scott		You don't remember me do you? I met you at the party the other day.
ramona		Were you the Pac-Man guy?
scott		No. Not even. That was some total ass. I was the other guy. You're Ramona Flowers right?
ramona		That's me.
scott		So, you're like American?
ramona		Why, am I coming off as rude?
scott		Not at all. Noooooo... Scott stands in awe of Ramona. She gives him a pen.
ramona		You know...you need to sign for this. Whatever this is?
scott		It's something really cool. You'd be impressed.
ramona		You still have to sign.
scott		But if I sign for it, you'll leave.
ramona		Yeah. That's how it works.
scott		Okay well, can we just maybe just hang out sometime? Get to know each other? You're the new kid on the block, right? I've lived here forever. I mean...there are reasons for you to hang out with me?
ramona		You're all over the place.
scott		You are like...my dream girl.
ramona		I need to find a new route.
scott		Either that or you need to start hanging out with me.
ramona		You want me to hang out with you?
scott		Um...you know...if that's cool.
ramona		If I say yes, will you sign for your damn package? Scott finally signs on the dotted line. And throws the package straight in the trash.
scott		Done. So, yeah. Eight o'clock?
scott		Why are you just standing there?
ramona		Dude, I'm totally waiting on you.
scott		Sorry, I just assumed you were too cool to be on time.
ramona		Well. You assumed wrong.
scott		So what do you want to do? We could get a slice at Pizza Pizza or flip through some records at Sonic Boom. Oh, or there's this awesome game called Ninja Ninja Revolution at-
ramona		I'm not into simulated violence.
scott		I'm cool with whatever you want to do.
ramona		This is good. Scott and Ramona trudge through the snow in the empty park.
scott		This is good. So how'd you end up in Toronto?
ramona		Just needed to escape I guess.
scott		Oh yeah?
ramona		I got this job here. And Gideon had always said Toronto was one of the great cities so...
scott		Is Gideon...is he your boyfriend?
ramona		He's...a friend.
scott		Was he your boyfriend?
ramona		Do you mind if we don't get into that right now?
scott		It's so not interesting to me. They sit on some swings in the park.
ramona		So what about you? What do you do?
scott		I'm between jobs.
ramona		Between what and what?
scott		My last job is a long story filled with sighs.
ramona		I know plenty of those.
scott		Is that why you left New York?
ramona		Pretty much. It was time to head somewhere a little more chilled.
scott		Well, it's certainly chilled here.
ramona		Yeah. Uh. Chilled as in cold.
ramona		Yeah.
scott		I'm totally obsessed with you.
ramona		I didn't mean to get you obsessed.
scott		I just haven't been obsessed with a girl for a long time. It's weird.
ramona		That's probably because you sleep with a guy.
scott		Um...
ramona		I was guessing from your apartment, but you totally do!
scott		It's... we're just poor! We can't afford two beds! We're not gay! Actually... no... Wallace is pretty gay.
ramona		Dude, relax. I believe you. You're too desperate to be gay.
scott		I feel so stupid.
ramona		Aw... you're probably not that stupid. Laughing, Ramona hops off her swing.
ramona		Well, you're definitely stupid if you want to go out with me.
scott		Exactly, yeah. The snowfall gets heavier.
ramona		This is ridiculous. Isn't it like April?
scott		Yeah. I can barely see you. This whole thing is an unmitigated disaster.
ramona		I think 'act of God' is a pretty decent excuse for a lousy date.
scott		So this is a 'date', eh?
ramona		Did I say 'date'? Slip of the tongue.
scott		Tongue... The snow gets heavier still. Ramona walks away.
ramona		Anyway, night's not over yet. I think there's a thingy up here somewhere.
scott		A thingy?
ramona		A door.
scott		A door? I... I... I can't see you. I'm blind. Help me.
ramona		What kind of tea do you want?
scott		There's more than one kind?
ramona		We have blueberry, raspberry, ginseng, sleepytime, green tea, green tea with lemon, green tea with lemon and honey, liver disaster, ginger with honey, ginger without honey, vanilla almond, white truffle, blueberry chamomile, vanilla walnut, constant comment and earl grey.
scott		Did you make some of those up?
ramona		I think I'll have sleepytime.
scott		That sounds good to me.
ramona		Let me get you a blanket.
scott		That would actually be awesome. Ramona exits. After a moment alone, Scott ventures upstairs. He wanders towards a half open door. Pushing it open, he finds Ramona in her bedroom in her bra and skirt.
ramona		Dude! I'm changing. Scott covers his eyes and our screen goes BLACK.
ramona		I guess...
scott		Maybe...maybe we should both get under it...since we're so cold.
ramona		Well...what about our tea?
scott		I can...not have tea. The slinky bassline continues as Ramona takes her skirt off, revealing black panties to complement black bra. Scott takes his shirt off. They tumble onto the bed and make out. Then-
ramona		I changed my mind.
scott		Changed it to what? From what?
ramona		I don't want to have sex with you, Pilgrim. Not right now.
scott		Ohh...kay.
ramona		It's not like I'm gonna send you home in a snowstorm or anything. You can sleep in my bed. And I reserve the right to change my mind about the sex later. Ramona curls up next to Scott.
scott		This is cool, just this. It's been like a really long time, and this is...I think I needed this. Whatever this is. So, thanks.
ramona		You're welcome. They exchange a smile. Then without warning we jump cut to -
ramona		I have to work.
scott		Work?
ramona		You have to leave.
scott		Hey, can this not be a one night stand? For one thing, I didn't even get any...that was a joke.
ramona		What did you have in mind?
scott		Umm...oh, come to the first round of this battle of the bands thing.
scott		Yeah, we're terrible. Please come.
ramona		Sure.
scott		Wait! Can I get your number? SSSSHHHOOP! Ramona skids to a stop, right back next to Scott. She hands him a note. 'RAMONA FLOWERS, 212 664-7665, xxxxxxx'
scott		Wow, girl number. Scott looks back up. Ramona is already skating far, far away.
ramona		See you at the show, Scott Pilgrim.
scott		Oh, hey! It's tonight...At The-
scott		You totally came!
ramona		Yes. I did totally come. Scott is so amazed at her presence, his social skills vanish.
stacey		Excuse my brother. He's chronically enfeebled. I'm Stacey.
ramona		Hey.
stacey		And this is Wallace, his room-mate.
wallace		Hey.
stacey		And this is my boyfriend Jimmy.
wallace		 Heyyy.
stacey		And this is Knives, Scott's- Scott goes white. He didn't even see Knives come in.
knives chau		Hey. Knives pecks Scott on the cheek. He pushes her away. Knives looks kinda sexy, wearing makeup and new clothes.
knives chau		Do you like?
scott		I...uh... LEONE STAREDOWNS all around. Stacey stares at Scott. Knives and Ramona stare at each other. Wallace stares at Jimmy.
stephen stills		This is a nightmare. Is this a nightmare? Wake up, wake up, wake up.
kim		Once we're on stage you'll be fine.
stills		We were just on stage. For sound check. The sound guy hated us.
scott		It's just nerves! Pre-show jitters. People love us. Right? Scott sounds less than convincing. He looks up at Ramona and Knives sitting with Wallace, Jimmy and Stacey in the BALCONY.
wallace		Jimmy. Do they rock or suck?
jimmy		They...haven't started playing yet.
wallace		That was a test, Jimmy. You passed.
crash		Good evening. I am Crash, and these are the Boys.
crash		Yes. TRASHA, 8 year old girl drummer, gives Wallace the finger.
kim pine		They have a girl drummer?
crash		This is called "I am so sad. I am so very very sad." And it goes a little something like this. Crash and the Boys play a whole song in .04 seconds.
crash		Thank you. Wallace yells from the balcony.
crash		This song is for the guy who keeps yelling from the balcony, and it's called "We Hate You, Please Die."
wallace		Sweet! I love this one!
stephen stills		These guys are good. Are these guys good? Kim Pine scowls harder than ever.
stephen stills		These guys are good.
crash		This is called "Last Song Kills Audience". It'll be our last song tonight and your last song EVER... Sound explodes from the stage. The audience are stunned.
stephen stills		How are we supposed to follow this? We're not going to win, we're not gonna sign with G-Man and we'll never play opening night at the Chaos Theatre.
stacey		So, how do you know Scott?
ramona		He's...um. He's a friend.
stacey		Hard for me to keep track sometimes. He has so many friends. Ramona arches an eyebrow. Stacey turns to Knives and Tamara.
stacey		So Knives, how did you meet Scott?
scott		We gotta play now and loud!
knives chau		Well, I was on the bus with my Mom- Knives freezes, staring at the stage.
ramona		Is that seriously the end of the story?
knives chau		OH MY GOSH, they're on!
promoter		This next band is from Toronto and...yeah. So give it up for Sex...Bob-Omb? SEX BOB-OMB walk on. Wallace and Knives give the only cheers.
stephen stills		Scott...you ready? Scott nods vigorously.
stephen stills		Kim...you rea-
matthew patel		Mr. Pilgrim. It is I, Matthew Patel. Consider our fight...begun!
scott		What did I do? Matthew Patel leaps in the air and sails toward Scott.
scott		What do I do?!
matthew patel		Alright. Alright.
wallace		Watch out! It's that one guy!
scott		Thank you, Wallace! Patel RUNS at Scott. Scott SPIN KICKS Patel in the chin and sends him flying into the air. They land in THE PIT, knocking hipsters down and squaring off in the resulting circle.
matthew patel		You're quite the opponent, Pilgrim.
scott		Who the hell are you anyway? The LIGHTING GUY spotlights the fighters.
matthew patel		My name is Matthew Patel and I'm Ramona's first evil ex-boyfriend!
scott		You're what?
matthew patel		Ramona's first evil ex-boyfriend! All eyes WHIP up to Ramona...
ramona		Anyone need another drink? Patel attacks Scott with spin kicks. Scott blocks. Patel punches. Scott blocks, then holds his hand up for a time-out.
scott		We're fighting because of Ramona?
matthew patel		Didn't you get my e-mail explaining the situation?
scott		I skimmed it.
matthew patel		You will pay for your insolence! Patel attacks, landing kicks and punches. Scott evades and counter-attacks. Patel evades, then lands more punches. Scott jump-spins away from danger. They pause, breathing heavy.
wallace		What's up with his outfit?
other heckler		Yeah! Is he a pirate? Scott looks at Patel's outfit.
scott		Are you a pirate?
matthew patel		Pirates are in this year! Patel attacks again. They exchange furious blows, until Patel puts Scott in a choke hold. Scott looks up to Ramona.
scott		You really went out with this guy?
ramona		Yeah, in the seventh grade. The Lighting Guy SWINGS the spotlight to Ramona in the balcony. We see a sketchy childlike ANIMATED FLASHBACK.
scott		Dude, wait...mystical powers? Patel levitates into the air and points at Ramona.
matthew patel		You'll pay for this, Flowers! Patel SNAPS his fingers and launches into a BOLLYWOOD SONG!
scott		That doesn't even rhyme. Scott rolls across the stage, GRABS one of Kim's CYMBALS and throws it Captain America style. It hits Patel square in the eyes. POOF, the Demon Hipster Chicks vanish.
matthew patel		This is impossible, how can it be?! Scott leaps into the air. Patel opens his eyes just in time to see Scott Pilgrim's FIST racing towards his face.
scott		Open your eyes. Maybe you'll see.
scott		Sweet. Coins.
ramona		Well, it was great meeting you. Tell your gay friends I said bye.
stacey		Gay friends? Stacey turns to see Wallace and Jimmy making out.
stacey		WALLACE?! Not again! Ramona passes Knives, who is being resuscitated by Tamara.
scott		Aw man. $2.40? That's not even enough for the bus home.
ramona		I'll lend you the 30 cents. Ramona yanks Scott away. The Promotor ambles back onstage.
promoter		Yeah...so like, Sex Bob-Omb wins.
scott		Sooooooo... A bemused Scott and mortified Ramona sit on the bus home.
scott		What was all that all about?
ramona		Uh, I guess... Ramona takes a breath. Looks deep into Scott's eyes.
scott		You have seven evil ex-boyfriends?
ramona		Seven ex's, yes.
scott		So I have to fight-
ramona		Defeat.
scott		-defeat your seven evil ex's if we're going to continue to date.
ramona		Pretty much.
scott		So, what you're saying is...
ramona		Uh, I guess.
scott		Cool. Do you want to make out?
ramona		Uh... Scott kisses Ramona. The studio audience 'awwww's.
wallace		Someone's happy.
scott		Well, someone got to second base last night. And someone has a second date tonight.
wallace		Someone's lucky then.
scott		You know when I say 'someone', I mean me, right? I got to second base last night...maybe first and a half. Wallace shoots a look at the idiotically upbeat Scott.
wallace		Okay, Scott. But in return I have to issue an ultimatum.
scott		One of your famous ultimatums?
wallace		It may live in infamy...You have to break up with Knives. Today. Okay? Scott huffs and helps himself to some of Wallace's bacon.
scott		But...but...it's HARD.
wallace		If you don't do it, I'm going to tell Ramona about Knives. I swear to God, Scott.
scott		But you...you're... At this point a sleepy JIMMY wanders out of the bathroom and helps himself to coffee.
jimmy		Morning. Scott points bacon at Wallace accusingly.
wallace		I didn't make up the gay rulebook. If you have a problem with it, take it up with Liberace's Ghost.
scott		You're a monster.
wallace		Now put the bacon down and go do your dirt while I watch the Lucas Lee marathon on TBS Superstation.
scott		Who's Lucas Lee? Wallace points to a hunky actor on the cover of NOW magazine.
wallace		He was this pretty good skater and now he's this pretty good actor.
scott		They make movies in Toronto?
wallace		Yes. I am stalking him later.
scott		So, this Lucas Lee-
wallace		Lucas Lee is not important to you right now! Get out.
scott		You suck. Surprising no one. Scott grumbles off. Wallace turns the television way up. We see Lucas Lee on a payphone in some crummy thriller.
scott		Oh, hey, Knives. Um, do you want to, like, talk or whatever?
scott		Ummm... Scott checks what he's wearing. SPOOKY MUSIC underscores.
scott		It's not dorky! Why are you psychic? A beaming Knives knocks on the payphone glass.
knives chau		I can't believe they're coming to town. Will you take me to the show?
scott		Yeah, listen- The SPOOKY MUSIC gets louder, pounding inside Scott's head.
knives chau		Oh, hey, I wanted to invite you over for dinner.
scott		Like, Chinese food?
knives chau		Yeah.
scott		Hmm. It's not my favorite.
knives chau		Yeah. Well, to meet my parents. It's my birthday dinner.
scott		Uh...I think that's a really bad idea. Like, really, just so bad.
knives chau		No, it's okay. Why?
scott		Well I mean, I'm too old for you!
knives chau		No you're not! My Dad is nine years older than my Mom...
scott		And...and...are you even allowed to date outside your race or whatever?
knives chau		I don't care. I'm in...LOVE!
scott		Um, listen...I was thinking we should break up or whatever.
knives chau		Really?
scott		Yeah...um...it's not going to work out.
knives chau		Oh... Scott walks out, leaving Knives in the aisle.
kim pine		Where's Knives? Not coming tonight?
scott		Oh. No. We broke up. Young Neil PAUSES his DS. Kim and Stills share a look.
kim pine		Scott, you are the salt of the earth.
scott		Aw, thanks.
kim pine		Wait. I meant scum of the earth.
scott		Aw, thanks.
young neil		You...you broke up with Knives?
scott		Yeah, but don't worry, maybe you'll meet my new new girlfriend soon.
young neil		Newnew. Kim mimes shooting herself. Stills unplugs Scott's amp.
stephen stills		Okay! From here on out, no GIRLFRIENDS or GIRLFRIEND talk at practice, whether they're old, new or new-new. We were lucky to survive that last round. This is sudden death now. Okay?
scott		Okay!
ramona		Yes. Like you said. Is it not cool? Scott ushers her in, weirded out by this hair development.
scott		You know your hair?
ramona		I know of it.
scott		It's all blue.
ramona		Yeah. I just dyed it. Are you going to introduce me?
scott		Oh yeah, this is Stephen Stills, Young Neil, that's... Kim.
ramona		Hey everyone. Everyone mumbles back. Scott still stares at Ramona's hair.
scott		Is it weird not being pink anymore?
ramona		I change my hair every week and a half, dude. Get used to it.  So...uh...how do you guys all know each other?
young neil		High school, I guess?
stephen stills		What Neil said.
young neil		I'm Neil.
kim pine		Believe it or not, I actually dated Scott in high school.
ramona		Got any embarassing stories?
kim pine		Yeah. He's an idiot. Scott fake laughs. Starts ushering Ramona out again.
scott		Okay. Cool. See you guys tomorrow.
stephen stills		Uh, what about rehearsal?
scott		Neil knows my parts.
wallace		Are you doing okay there?
scott		Yeah, good. Good. Ramona goes to the bathroom. Scott drops the act.
scott		She changed her hair.
wallace		So? It looks nice blue.
scott		I know, but she changed it without even making a big deal about it. She's spontaneous. Impulsive. Fickle. Oh my god, what do I do?
wallace		I can't believe you were worried about me gaying up the place. Ramona returns. Wallace pulls on a jacket.
ramona		How's dinner coming along?
scott		Yeah, good. Good.
wallace		I'll leave you lovebirds to it. I'm heading up to Casa Loma to stalk my hetero crush. Scott stops Wallace at the door, with a panicked whisper.
scott		Don't go.
wallace		Will you man the hell up? You could get to 2nd and a half base.
scott		You think so?
wallace		Well, if you strike out in the next hour, come find me at the Castle.
scott		'If I strike out'?
wallace		Okay, 'when'. See you in sixty.
ramona		This is actually really good garlic bread.
scott		Garlic bread is my favorite food. I could honestly eat it for every meal. Or just all the time without even stopping.
ramona		You'd get fat.
scott		No. Why would I get fat?
ramona		Bread makes you fat.
scott		Bread makes you FAT??
scott		So I wrote a song about you.
ramona		Oh yeah?
scott		Yeah, it goes like this: Ra-mona, Ra-mona, Ra-ra-ra, Mona, Ra-mona, Ra-mona, Ra-ra-ra, Mona, Ooooh.
ramona		I can't wait to hear it when it's finished.
scott		Finished?
ramona		Your hair's pretty shaggy.
ramona		What?
scott		Ha. No, sorry. It's just that I got... I got a bad haircut right before me and my big ex broke up. But it's so long ago, I can barely remember it... A deep voiced NARRATOR chimes in. Earl Jones deep.
narrator		Scott is acutely aware that his last salon haircut took place exactly 431 days ago, three hours before his big breakup. He blames this largely on the haircut and has been cutting his own hair ever since.
ramona		Sounds like a bad time.
scott		Not really.
narrator		It was.
scott		It was a mutual thing.
narrator		It wasn't.
scott		I mean, she told me it was mutual.
narrator		She dumped him. It was brutal.
ramona		What was her name?
scott		She was Nat when I knew her. But she stopped liking that name. Then...she stopped liking me...
ramona		Your hair is cute. I like it long.
scott		But it'd be cuter short! Wouldn't it?! Scott disappears and just as quickly reappears, now wearing his dorky SNOW HAT, hair tucked tightly beneath the flaps.
ramona		What? Why are you wearing that?
scott		I thought we could go for a walk.
ramona		Tell me we didn't come out here just so you could cover your hair with that hat.
scott		Nooo. I just love me some walking. Putting one leg in front of the other.
ramona		You seem a little...heightened.
scott		Yeah. I don't know. I just, when I'm with you I feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs, unless you do, in which case I do drugs all the time, every drug, but...you make me feel...I don't know. Things seem a little brighter around you or something. Ramona and Scott finally reach the top of the stairs and NIGHT TURNS TO DAY, as if crossing a magical line.
ramona		What is this place?
scott		A totally awesome castle. They're shooting this movie up here. Ramona looks up at the looming CASA LOMA, a castle surrounded by big, bright movie set lights.
ramona		Who's in it?
scott		Winifred Hailey and some actor guy.
ramona		Oh, who?
scott		I forget. Let's find out.
ramona		Did you find the guy you're stalking?
wallace		I think I'm about to right now.
ramona		Mr. Lee?
wallace		Lucas Lee.
ramona		Ooh.
scott		Ooh? The UNIVERSAL STUDIOS FANFARE announces LUCAS LEE as he exits his trailer, smoking a cigarette . He skates towards the set, doing kickflips. The spectators go 'oooh'.
wallace		I want to have his adopted babies.
ramona		Oh, man. We gotta go.
scott		What? Why?
ramona		I used to date that clown.
wallace		Slut.
ramona		Wallace. I am not a slut.
wallace		I can think of no higher accolade. Lucas steps to his mark and puffs up into action hero mode.
lucas lee		Action. Lucas Lee points his board at the GOON.
scott		Oh...my...God...
lucas lee		Hey. The only thing keeping me and her apart is the two minutes it's gonna take to kick your ass.
scott		...you dated a FAMOUS guy?!
ramona		In 9th grade. We had drama. Actually, it might have been math. I just remember there being lots of drama.
ramona		He just followed me around. He was a little snot nosed brat.
scott		He had snot? In his nose? But he's famous!
ramona		It's not a big deal. I only dated him for a week and a half-
lucas lee		I'm talking to you Scott Pilgrim! Lucas Lee stomps towards Scott, who gasps.
scott		He's famous and he talked to me!
lucas lee		The only thing keeping me and her apart is the two minutes it's gonna take to kick your ass!
scott		Can I get- POW! Lucas Lee punches Scott, flooring him. Scott comes back up with a pen and paper, wobbly.
scott		Can I get your autograph? POW! Lucas Lee PUNCHES Scott again. He nods to Ramona.
lucas lee		Sup. How's life? He seems nice. Lucas Lee THROWS Scott up into a castle turret, crumbling it. Scotts CRASHES down through scaffolding onto the set. Lucas holds up his hands for a quick continuity photo, then stomps over to pick up a dazed Scott from the ground.
wallace		Scott. Evil ex. Fight.
lucas lee		Think you stand a chance against an A-lister, bro? Lucas Lee PUNCHES Scott again. He slides across the wet-down ground. A SET NURSE sprays Lucas' knuckles with antiseptic.
lucas lee		Some competish you are. Lucas Lee wanders off. Scott staggers to his feet, punchy.
scott		Hey... hey... hey! I'm not done- Scott spins Lucas around, only to find an identical STAND IN!
lucas lee		He's good, right? Sometimes I let him do wide shots if I feel like getting blazed back in my winnie. Scott stands to fight the double. Suddenly, COUNTLESS STUNTMEN fan out behind the STAND IN, all identically dressed, all carrying skateboards and ready to rumble.
lucas lee		I'm nothing without my stunt team. The Stuntmen ATTACK Scott Pilgrim with a howl. Scott PUNCHES through a couple of the boards, Tae Kwon Doe style.
wallace		Ask them how it feels to always get his sloppy seconds!
scott		How does it feel to- KROW! Scott takes a skateboard to the face, followed by a barrage of crippling skateboard blows to his knees and ribs.
lucas lee		I'm gonna get coffee. You homies want anything? We follow the smirking Lucas to the coffee station. We hear the noise of punching and kicking slowly subside to nothing.
scott		You're needed back on set. Scott CHARGES Lucas Lee and leaps into a FLYING KICK. Lucas GRABS his foot and hurls him through the backdrop. RRRIP! Scott lands in a CRUMP, framed through the torn skyline. Lucas stomps over to him, preparing for the deathblow.
lucas lee		Prepare... prepare to feel the wrath of the League of Evil Exes!
scott		The League of Evil Axes?
lucas lee		You really don't know about the "The League"?
scott		Ummm...
lucas lee		Seven evil exes? Coming to kill you? Controlling the future of Ramona's love life?
scott		...no.
lucas lee		Oh, well then don't worry about it.
scott		Really?
lucas lee		Yeah, bro. Let's get a beer. Lucas offers a hand. Scott goes to shake it. POW! Lucas gets him square in the mouth. Scott smiles through his aching jaw.
scott		You are a pretty good actor.
lucas lee		I'm going for the Oscar this year.
scott		But are you a pretty good skater?
lucas lee		I'm more than pretty good, ese. I have my own skate company. Lucas pulls down his shirt, revealing a skate company tattoo.
scott		So you can sell them, but can you do a thingy on that rail? Scott points to the LONG HANDRAIL on the stairs.
lucas lee		It's called a grind, bro.
scott		So can you do a grind thingy now?
lucas lee		Are you serious? There's like 200 steps and the rails are garbage.
scott		Hey, if it's too hardcore...
lucas lee		You really think you can goad me into doing a trick like that?
scott		There's girls watching.
lucas lee		Somebody get me my board. Wallace taps Lucas' shoulder and hands him his skateboard.
wallace		Hi. Big fan.
lucas lee		Why wouldn't you be? CLACK! Lucas GOES FOR IT, a perfect ollie onto the rail. Scott and Wallace watch as Lucas disappears from sight, sparking down the ENDLESS RAIL...HSSSSSSSSSSSSSS... Cut back to Scott & Wallace, impressed at Lucas.
scott		Wow.
scott		Wow.
wallace		Wow, he totally bailed.
scott		Yes! Fist bump. Scott smacks his forehead.
scott		I didn't get his autograph.
scott		Where's Ramona? Is she still here?
wallace		No, she totally bailed.
scott		What's the deal? Seriously.
scott		Hey. It's me, Scott again. Call me back. Scott Pilgrim.
wallace		Yeah, you said that last night.
scott		You know what really sucks though?
wallace		What?
scott		Everything!
wallace		Come on guy, you can't say you didn't see this coming. It was right under your nose. Wallace points to the NOTE Ramona scribbled which is pinned literally under Scott's nose on the refrigerator: RAMONA FLOWERS, 212 664-7665, xxxxxxx
wallace		What did you think these were?
scott		Kisses? Seven little kisses?
wallace		Seven deadly X's.
scott		Why does everything have to be so complicated? Wallace crouches down to join Scott on the floor.
wallace		If you want something bad, you have to fight for it. Step up your game. Break out the L-word.
scott		Lesbian?
wallace		The other L-word.
scott		Lesbians?
wallace		Okay, it's 'love'. I wasn't trying to trick you or anything. Look, if she's really the girl of your dreams, then you have to let her know. You have to overcome any and all obstacles that lie in your path. You have the spirit of a warrior, Scott. You can do it! Be with her! It's your destiny!
scott		What? Why? Are you moving in with Other Scott or Jimmy or someone?
wallace		Or someone. Either way, I'm kind of banking on her calling you back so I won't have to evict you and feel all guilty and shit. RINGY RING. Scott and Wallace look at the phone.
wallace		I have a feeling that's for you, guy. Scott picks up. A SEXY, NON-RAMONA VOICE REPLIES...
scott		...Envy?
wallace		Oh, shit.
scott		Yeah.
scott		Approximately.
scott		I'm not doing so good right now.
scott		What? No, stop. I've been-it's been different. You have no idea.
scott		Yes, you should. I have this totally awesome girlfriend who calls me all the time. And she's America. Uh. She's American.
scott		I'm not telling you that. Ramona.
scott		What? Do you know her?
scott		It sounded like you did.
wallace		Okay. Everything does suck. Scott grunts. RINGY RING. Wallace grins and grabs the phone.
wallace		Or does it? Scott sits bolt upright, expectant.
wallace		Oh, hey Knives. Scott lays back down. FUCK.
wallace		What's that? You're outside? Scott sits bolt upright again. FUCK! Wallace opens the door a crack. Knives shivers outside, pale and broken looking.
knives chau		Is Scott here?
wallace		You know what? Behind Wallace, we see Scott LEAP through a window head first. GLASS SMASHES.
scott		Dude. WHOOSH - another blast of air whizzes by.
scott		Please.
scott		I'm really not in the mood. SHWAA - SOMETHING slices the air in front of Scott.
scott		Okay, enough! Scott punches the air in front of him. Hits SOMETHING. A DIMINUTIVE DIRTY BLONDE dressed in a punk rock kung fu get up lands on the ground with a thump. She spins to face Scott.
mystery attacker		You punched me in the boob. Prepare to die, obviously.
scott		Listen, I've had it today. Can we not do this right now?
scott		What's that from?
scott		Well whatever this is about, can it wait till I'm in the right frame of mind?
mystery attacker		Nuh uh. This is one nightmare you can't wake up from.
scott		Wait, am I asleep right now?
mystery attacker		No.
scott		So, technically this is not a nightmare.
mystery attacker		Right.
scott		So how can I not wake up? If I'm not actually asleep.
mystery attacker		Don't question me! Scott shakes his head, baffled.
scott		Well, I'm really, really not up for this. Whatever it is.
mystery attacker		Okay little chicken, then I'll see you later. But you won't see me. Because I'll be deadly serious next time.
scott		What?
mystery attacker		Nevermind! PAF - the Mystery Attacker vanishes. Scott looks to the sky.
scott		Oh man. Someone help me.
scott		It's Scott.
scott		No, it's Scott. It's actually me.
scott		I didn't do anything. It's everyone else that's crazy.
scott		Cool, I'm coming in. Scott hangs up the phone and walks two steps into-
scott		Think I'll make it a decaf today. Stacey turns around, revealing herself to be JULIE!
scott		AH! What did you do with my sister? Stacey taps on the window outside, mouthing that she has to go. Scott turns back to Julie, not happy.
julie		What can I fucking get you?
scott		Is there anywhere you don't work?
julie		They're called 'jobs', something a fuckball like you wouldn't know anything about. And by the way, I can't believe you fucking asked Ramona out after I specifically told you not to fucking do that! 
scott		How do you do that with your mouth?
julie		Neverfuckingmind how I do it! What do you have to say for yourself?
scott		Uh. Can I get a caramel macchiato?
julie		Maybe it's high fucking time you took a look in a mirror before you wreak havoc on another girl.
scott		Me? Wreak havoc? Julie points at THE CLASH AT DEMONHEAD poster behind the counter with concert dates at the bottom.
julie		Fucking speaking of fucking which, I hear the girl that kicked your heart in the ass is walking the streets of Toronto again.
scott		So I can pick up my coffee over here? Scott retreats away from Julie and bumps right into... RAMONA. They share an awkward moment. She looks at the floor.
ramona		Sorry that got a little crazy last night.
scott		Yeah. You kind of disappeared.
ramona		Yeah, I do that. Listen, I know it's hard to be around me sometimes. I'll understand if you don't want to hang anymore.
scott		No. No, I want to hang. The whole evil ex-boyfriend thing. No biggie.
ramona		Exes.
scott		I mean, I know it's early days, but I don't think anything can really get in the way of how I SHIT! Scott hides behind Ramona as a lithe figure emerges from the steamed-milk mists of the coffee shop...the singer from THE CLASH AT DEMONHEAD has seemingly stepped out of the poster.
ramona		The big one? Scott nods. LEONE STAREDOWN between Envy and Ramona.
ramona		I'm gonna...excuse me. Ramona goes to order coffee, leaving Envy to fix on Scott.
envy		Your hair is getting shaggy. REVERSE: Scott is instantly wearing his DORKY HAT.
scott		Yeah?
envy		So. That's Ramona?
scott		Yeah.
envy		Okay, I'm jealous.
scott		YOU'RE jealous?
envy		I'm allowed.
scott		You left me! For that cocky pretty boy!
envy		You've never even seen him.
scott		Yeah. I know. You left me for a guy I've never even seen.
envy		Maybe you'll see him soon. We're playing Lee's Palace. You guys should like, so totally come.
scott		That's so not going to happen.
envy		Great. You're so on the list.
julie		Caramel Fuckiato for fuck Pilgrim!
ramona		So...that was Nat?
scott		No, that was Envy.
ramona		So...what did you guys talk about?
scott		She's totally jealous of you.
ramona		Envy's jealous? How about that?
scott		Yeah. How. About. That.
ramona		What happened with the two of you?
scott		Do you mind if we don't get into that right now?
ramona		And two weeks later, you heard they were sleeping together I guess?
scott		Basically.
ramona		I dated a Todd once. That didn't end well either.
scott		I can see how it sucks. Having the past come back to haunt you.
ramona		Is it wrong that I try not to think about it?
scott		What do you want to think about?
ramona		How warm my place is right now. Ramona stops and kisses him.
other scott		And you didn't bang her? Are you gay?
scott		I couldn't stop thinking about my stupid ex-girlfriend. A bleary Jimmy sits up between them all.
jimmy		Is that the Uma Thurman movie?
wallace		Scott. Just because Envy's back in town doesn't make it not over.
scott		Double negative. Tricky.
other scott		It's over. Move on.
wallace		Word.
jimmy		Mm. Scott stands . Music swells.
scott		Right. I'm not gonna let her toy with me. From this moment on, I will think of Envy Adams no more!
stephen stills		I have distressing news. A deadly serious Stephen Stills addresses Kim, Scott and Young Neil. Ramona lounges on the couch...  
kim pine		Is the news that we suck? Because I really don't think I can take it.
stephen stills		No. The Clash At Demonhead are doing a secret show tomorrow night. And Envy asked us to open for them.
scott		I hate you.
stephen stills		A gig is a gig is a gig. Is a gig. Maybe you can put your history aside until we get through this thing. You know, for the band? For the band. For the band?
scott		Can't we do our own secret shows?
kim pine		All our shows are secret shows.
stephen stills		We're doing it. G-man might be there! We play the next round of the battle Saturday. We need to get some buzz going. We need groundswell. We need stalkers. Stills paces past the window to reveal...KNIVES CHAU OUTSIDE. CRASH ZOOM on her tearful face, pressed against the window. TOTALLY CRUSHED to see Scott cuddling with Ramona.
scott		What would you do? If your ex was in a band and they wanted you to open for them?
ramona		If my ex was in the band?
scott		Yeah.
ramona		It might be a little awkward. But maybe it's the grown up thing to do.
scott		Yeah, we're all adults right?
knives chau		He's dating a fat-ass hipster chick! I hate his stupid guts! I'm gonna disembowel him!
knives chau		He only likes her cause she's old! She's probably like 25! She's just some fat-ass white girl, you know?
tamara		I think you mentioned she was fa-
knives chau		She's got a head start! I didn't even know there WAS good music until like two months ago! Okay, this really burns.
tamara		We should rinse-
knives chau		I mean, he knew I was cool but he thought I was too young, so he tried to find someone cool but old.
tamara		She's cool? I thought she was fat-
knives chau		Well she THINKS she's cool. This is all her fault.
tamara		Why? Tamara turns the faucet on and rinses Knives hair.
knives chau		It MUST be her fault. Obviously it's just a twist of fate or whatever, isn't it? Star crossed lovers! Born too late! Knives looks in the mirror: HER HAIR IS EXACTLY LIKE RAMONA.
tamara		How? We see a TEXT MESSAGE typing onscreen:
stephen stills		Thank you. We were Sex Bob-Omb. Wallace and Other Scott clap and cheer, drunk. The other snobbish kids in the audience shrug and disperse.
stephen stills		We got some merch out the back, so-  Okay. Bar. Now.
stephen stills		Level with me. Did we suck?
ramona		I don't know. Did you?
stephen stills		She has to go. She knows we suck. Ramona excuses herself.
knives chau		Hey Ramona.
ramona		Hey. Ramona exits, confused. Knives follows.
ramona		What the hell?
knives chau		Hey Scott. Knives heads into Young Neil's arms at the other end of the bar. Scott struggles with something resembling jealousy.
scott		What the hell?
kim pine		Look who Knives is hanging with.
ramona		Who is that girl again?
stephen stills		Scottdatedher.
scott		Briefly. Briefly.
kim pine		I bet Young Neil will date her even briefly-er.
ramona		How old is she? A 'WHEEL OF FORTUNE' spins INSIDE SCOTT'S HEAD, with selections such as 'It was nothing' and 'She was nobody.' The wheel sticks between 'I gotta pee.' and 'Who, her?'
scott		I gotta pee on her.  I mean, I gotta pee. Pee time.
scott		That guy on bass? That's Todd.
ramona		I know.
envy		Oh yeah...
scott		You know?
envy		Oh yeah... Todd flips his fringe from his eyes. Stares at Scott.
scott		Oh no. Envy lets her coat slip off, revealing a stunning figure.
knives chau		Oh my God. Just oh my God.
young neil		Man, you have to see them live. They're so much better live. Oh.
scott		I think I'm going to throw up. Julie opens the backstage door and huffs.
julie		I can't believe I'm even saying this, but Envy Adams would like all of you to come backstage.
scott		All of us?
julie		Did I fucking stutter? The group shuffles backstage. Scott hangs his head like a condemned man.
knives chau		How do you know Envy???
young neil		Scottdatedher. Knives makes a face that looks like this: >:O !!!!
todd ingram		Hey Ramona.
ramona		Hey Todd.
todd ingram		Been a while.
ramona		Mmm hmm.
todd ingram		Mmm hmm.
ramona		 I think we should get out of here.
julie		How was the tour? You played with The Pixies? You're a superstar now!
envy		It's-yeah, it's not something I can really put into words.
knives chau		Um...Envy? I read your blog. Todd and Julie glare at Knives.
envy		So...Scott and Ramona eh?
ramona		What of it?
envy		You guys are a cute couple, you know? You suit each other.
stephen stills		So what's your ulterior motive Envy, in general?
julie		She doesn't need ulterior motives, Stephen. She's got a write-up in Spin!
knives chau		You're my role model Envy.
envy		Just saying, cute couple. I like your outfit Ramona. Affordable?
julie		I was going to say, Envy. Did you get those jeans in New York, they're-
envy		I'm talking to Ramona right now.
julie		Ramona lived in New York.
envy		I was just there. We played the Chaos Theatre for Gideon. You know him, right?
scott		Knives!? Young Neil rushes to Knives' aid. Scott boils. Todd smirks.
todd ingram		That's right. I'm not afraid to hit a girl. I'm a rock star.
young neil		You punched the highlights out of her hair! ANGLE on Knives. Her hair is black and plain as before.
young neil		He punched the highlights. Out. Of. Her. Hair.
envy		You're incorrigible.
todd ingram		I don't know the meaning of the word. Young Neil escorts Knives out. Todd sits back down like nothing happened. Scott's face is a bright shade of rage.
julie		So, are you guys doing anything fun while you're in town?
todd ingram		Fun? In Toronto?
scott		That is IT, you cocky cock! YOU'LL PAY
scott		KK...my neck...yy...your hair...
envy		Didn't you know? Todd's Vegan.
todd ingram		It's not a big deal.
scott		No kidding...anyone can be...vegan.
todd ingram		Ovo-lacto vegetarian maybe.
scott		Ovo what?
todd ingram		I partake not in the meat nor breastmilk or ovum of any creature that has a face.
envy		Short answer: Being vegan just makes you better than most people.
todd ingram		Bingo. Todd lifts up Scott telekinetically and throws him miles into the air. Scott sails out of shot and into space.
stephen stills		Hey man, question. I always wondered, how does not eating dairy products give you psychic powers?
todd ingram		You know how you only use ten percent of your brain? Well, it's because the other 90% is filled up with curds and whey.
kim pine		Did you learn that at Vegan Academy?
todd ingram		Go ahead and get snippy baby, if you knew the science, maybe I'd listen to a word you're saying. Scott returns to earth with a THUMP. He moans in pain. While the others bicker, Ramona helps Scott to his feet.
scott		If I peed my pants, would you pretend I just got wet from the rain?
ramona		It's not raining.
scott		Oh. How about you give me the Cliff Notes on how and why you ended up dating this a-hole?
ramona		Is that really important right now?
scott		If there's a key element in his backstory that can help me out in a critical moment of not dying? Yes. A brief, scrappy ANIMATED FLASHBACK of Young Todd and Ramona.
scott		Have you dumped everyone you've ever been with? You've never been the dumpee? Ramona shrugs.
ramona		Look, I've dabbled with being a bitch. It's part of the reason I moved here. I was really hoping to put it all behind me.
todd ingram		We have unfinished business, I and he! Scott stands up - sort of ready for another round.
scott		He and me.
todd ingram		Don't you talk to me about grammar!
scott		I...dislike you. Capiche? Understand?
todd ingram		Tell it to the cleaning lady on Monday.
scott		What?
todd ingram		Because you'll be dust by Monday.
scott		Um...
todd ingram		Because I'll be pulverizing you in two seconds. And the cleaning lady...cleans up...dust. She dusts.
scott		Sorry, so what's on Monday?
todd ingram		Cos it's Friday now and she has weekends off, so...Monday. Right?
envy		Basically, you can't win this fight and you'll have to give up on this girl, 'cos Todd is going to kill you.
scott		You used to be so...nice! Scott CHARGES at Todd, who PSYCH-THROWS him back into the club. We hear a distant CRUMP. Stills calls through the hole.
stephen stills		Uh, we're going to Pizza Pizza for a slice, call us when you're done.
envy		Oh, he'll be done real soon.
envy		Sorry, baby. Crummy way to end things, I know. Suddenly, the bass-line from FINAL FANTASY 2 rumbles through the walls. Todd calls to a roadie.
todd ingram		Get me my bass. The good one.
todd ingram		You're going down. Vegan Style! Todd lands in front of Scott. BASS OFF! PICKS STRIKE STRING! Todd easily out-basses Scott, shredding him into oblivion. The enormous reverb LAUNCHES club debris towards Scott.
scott		The reverb is hurting my soul!!! Scott slides across the floor and slams right into the wall. Todd LEVITATES, fauxhawk rising. He hovers next to him.
todd ingram		That's right, Pilgrim. I actually know how to play bass. Todd DETUNES his bass and delivers a death note that BLOWS Scott right through the stage wall.
todd ingram		I can read your thoughts. Your bass hand is badly injured. You're through. Scott turns around on his knees, cringing, holding a cup of MILKY LOOKING COFFEE in either hand as a peace offering.
scott		What say we drink to my memory? Fair trade blend with soymilk?
envy		I'm sorry, but that's pathetic.
todd ingram		Dude. I can see in your mind's eye that you poured Half & Half into one of these coffees in an attempt to make me break vegan edge. I'll take the one with soy. Thanks, tool. Todd floats to the ground, takes one of the cups and drinks.
scott		Actually, I poured soy in this cup, but thought real hard about pouring it in that one. You know, in my mind's eye or whatever.
todd ingram		What are you talking about?
scott		You just drank Half & Half. TWO TRENDY POLICE TYPES BUST IN THROUGH THE WALL, making two more holes and pointing their fingers like deadly weapons.
todd ingram		That's bullroar!
todd ingram		But this is a first offense! Don't I get three strikes? Vegan Police Officer #2 flips open his CODE VIOLATION book.
todd ingram		Gelato isn't vegan?
todd ingram		Chicken isn't vegan?
scott		You once were a vegone, but now you will be gone!
todd ingram		Vegone? Scott HEADBUTTS TODD, exploding him! POOM! Scott dusts himself off as COINS rain down. Envy stares, jaw ajar.
scott		Uh, sorry I guess.
envy		Sorry? You just headbutted my boyfriend so hard he burst.
scott		You kicked my heart in the ass. So I guess we're even. Natalie.
envy		No one calls me that anymore.
scott		Maybe they should. Now let's get out of here. A battle worn Scott limps through the hole in the wall. Ramona follows, shooting Envy a look on the way out.
ramona		Crummy way to end things, I know. Envy blinks, in shock. Julie pops into shot.
julie		For the record, I am so pissed off for you right now.
envy		Shut the fuck up, Julie.
wallace		Envy Adams. I hate that bitch so much I kind of love her.
other scott		Yeah. That Todd guy was cool too. And hot. I liked him. Scott sighs and holds a cold Coke Zero on his forehead.
ramona		Are you okay?
scott		Uh huh.
ramona		You sure about that?
scott		Do I look like I'm not okay? Scott does not look okay. Stills coughs.
stephen stills		We're still going to the after show right?
kim pine		I'm not sure it's gonna be much of a party, I think a third of the band just went 'poom'.
stephen stills		Cool bands never go to their own after parties. It's just the desperate people trying to rub elbows with label guys.
kim pine		Then why would we...oh.
stephen stills		Neil, you down?
ramona		Do you want to go?
scott		I kind of almost died back there, so...
ramona		I'm not saying I want to go.
scott		Hey, we can totally go.
ramona		I'll do whatever you want to do.
scott		So let's go. Scott takes another bite. Other Scott whispers to Wallace.
other scott		Are Scott and Ramona fighting?
wallace		Not to my knowledge.
other scott		Oh.
wallace		I mean, not with fists.
other scott		Oh.
wallace		Yet.
other scott		Ooh.
ramona		We really don't have to go to this thing. It'll probably be a bad scene all around and we've already had a full night.
scott		No, I'm fine, I'm fine. It's just-
ramona		It's just...?
scott		Well, not that fighting harder and harder battles for your love is getting old or anything...but have you ever dated someone who wasn't a total ass?
ramona		So far you're not a total ass.
scott		But I'm part ass?
ramona		If it makes you feel better, you're the nicest guy I've dated.
scott		Wait...is that good?
ramona		It's what I need right now.
scott		But not...later?
ramona		Scott, I don't have all the answers. I'd just like to live in the moment if I can.
scott		Yeah, I'd just like to live. Scott and Ramona enter a big, fartsy, artsy WAREHOUSE.
ramona		Okay, I know Todd was bad news. But are you saying Envy wasn't? We all have baggage.
scott		My baggage doesn't try and kill me every five minutes. What did you do to your ex-boyfriends to make them so insane?
ramona		Exes.
ramona		No break up is painless. Someone always gets hurt. What about you and that girl Knives?
scott		Knives?
ramona		Who broke up with who?
scott		I believe...I broke up with her.
ramona		And was she cool with that?
scott		Knives is with Young Neil now, she's totally cool with it. They pass Knives and Young Neil. She seemingly has no interest in her date and simply stares at Scott lovingly.
ramona		You sure about that?
scott		Yeah. She's very mature for her age. It was a very healthy break up. We're all peaches and gravy. We hear an offscreen distant 'nooooo' from Knives.
ramona		And what about you and Kim? They pass Kim. She's also staring at Scott. Not lovingly.
scott		Me and Kim? I can barely remember. Why, is it important?
ramona		Hey, you want to know everything about my past, dude.
scott		It was just...yeah. I don't know. It was high school. She had freckles. It was cool, I guess.
ramona		That's it?
scott		Yeah, it kind of ended. We changed.
ramona		That's really the whole story?
scott		OKAY! I had to fight a dude to get with her! I fought a crazy eighty foot tall purple suited dude! And I had to fight 96 guys to get to him, too! He was flying and shooting lightning bolts from his eyes! He was totally awesome and I kicked him so far he saw the curvature of the earth! Does that make you feel any better?
ramona		Well now you are being a total ass. Welcome to the club. In the back glass of the bar, Scott sees his reflection: fringed hair, wicked glare. He catches himself.
scott		Sorry. I'm not usually like this.
ramona		Hey, don't worry. I don't know what I'm like anymore.
scott		I guess this whole ex-boyfriends thing is really messing with my head.
ramona		Exes.
scott		Why do you keep saying- PAF! A foot appears out of nowhere and KICKS Scott in the head, sending him flying across the dance floor. Scott looks up at his opponent, the MYSTERY ATTACKER!
ramona		Roxy? Scott gets up. The three square off in a triangle.
scott		You know this girl?
roxy		Oh boy, does she know me.
scott		What...is...she...talking about?
roxy		He really doesn't know?
scott		 You and her?!
ramona		It was just a phase.
roxy		Just a phase?
scott		You had a sexy phase?
ramona		I didn't think it would count! It meant nothing.
roxy		It meant nothing???
ramona		I was just a little bi-curious.
roxy		Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious! Roxy throws a SCORPION KICK at Scott's face. Ramona CATCHES her foot mid-air. Roxy flips out of the hold.
ramona		Do that again and I will end you.
roxy		Back off hasbian. If Gideon can't have you, no one can. The League hath spoken. The girls square off, clearing the busy dance floor.
ramona		Then Gideon best get his pretentious ass up here, 'cos I'm about to kick yours out of the Great White North.
roxy		You unbelievable bitch. RAMONA pulls a LARGE HAMMER from her purse.
ramona		Believe it. An embarrassed Scott watches with the rest of the crowd.
scott		Wallace?
wallace		Uh huh?
scott		This is happening right?
wallace		Uh huh.
scott		I mean, this is live?
wallace		Oh yeah. KICK HER IN THE BALLS,
roxy		I'm sending you back to Gideon in a thousand pieces, you slag. Ramona springs off of various pieces of furniture, LEAPING towards Roxy and PUNCHING HER IN THE FACE. Roxy REELS and SLAMS into the wall, leaving a dent in it.
ramona		I'd rather be dead than go back. He's a creep, you're a bitch and you all deserve each other.
roxy		Give it a rest, Ramona. This is a League game.
ramona		Meaning? Roxy points an accusing finger at the mortified Scott.
roxy		Meaning your precious Scott must defeat me with his own fists. Or possibly feet.
scott		I'm not sure I can hit a girl. They're soft.
ramona		You don't have a choice. Ramona positions Scott into a fighting stance as Roxy CHARGES with deadly intent. Ramona puppeteers Scott into a furious volley of PUNCHES on Roxy. She staggers, winces.
roxy		Fight your own battles, lazy ass! PAF! Roxy disappears then REAPPEARS between Scott and Ramona, kicking them apart with the splits. Roxy then KICKS Scott into the ceiling. He lands HARD on the floor.
ramona		Her weak point's the back of her knees!
scott		What? How does that work?
ramona		Whenever we were making out, I-
scott		Okay. As Roxy's leg descends, Scott reaches up with one finger and lightly TICKLES the back of Roxy's knee.
roxy		Oh... Roxy falls, still in the splits, throbbing with orgasmic meltdown. Scott watches as Roxy giggles between spasms.
ramona		Sooooo...
scott		Two gin and tonics please.
ramona		I thought you didn't drink.
scott		Only on special occasions. Why? Did you want one? Scott swigs down his drink. Ramona tries to lighten things.
ramona		I guess we really don't know that much about each other do we? Scott seems immediately drunk.
scott		Maybe you could just give me a list of all your exes so at least I know who's going to beat my ass into the ground next.
ramona		Oh, like a handy little laminate or something? Let me see if I can find one.  Maybe we could exchange our information. Scott has already downed his second drink.
scott		Just out of sheer curiosity and concern for my mortal well-being, is there anyone at this party you haven't slept with?
ramona		I really think we should split.
scott		As in 'get out of here'? Or as in 'split split'?
ramona		I'd hope you could figure that out. Or did you miss the part where I saved your ass?
scott		How could I not? I feel like we just washed our sexy laundry in public.
ramona		Dirty laundry. You're drunk.
scott		 I've had like one drink.
ramona		Well I'm sorry I cared. I don't enjoy all this Scott. In fact I'm sick of it. I thought you might be more understanding.
ramona		You're just another evil ex- boyfriend waiting to happen. Ramona walks off and loudly announces.
scott		Who the hell are the Katayanagi Twins?
stephen stills		You don't know?
stephen stills		They're the next band in the battle and they are badass.
kim pine		Ramona dated twins?
scott		Apparently.
young neil		At the same time?
scott		You know what? I don't know and I don't want to know.
stephen stills		Good. You know how I feel about girls cockblocking the rock.
scott		Good. I play better in a bad mood.
stephen stills		If it's gonna be an issue though, Young Neil can fill in for you.
scott		It's not an issue. You know bands, I know battles. We got it covered.
stephen stills		Well, we'd understand if you didn't want to take part.
scott		Not only do I want to take part. I want to take them apart.
stephen stills		Okay. I'm getting tingles.
young neil		Whoa...
stephen stills		Okay. We're doomed.
young neil		Oh...
kim pine		That flyer needs more exclamation marks.
stephen stills		Oh, we are going to get killed.
young neil		Come on. You're onstage in five.
scott		Aren't the Katamaris or whatever on first?
young neil		I think you're both on first?
stephen stills		Wait...amp versus amp? We're going on stage at the same time?
scott		That's impossible-
scott		Okay. My bad.
kim pine		Your bad is saying my bad. Sex Bob-Omb stare up at the Katayanagi amps, sweating behind their instruments. Stills looks into the audience positioned between the bands: a legion of identical INDIE TEENS.
stephen stills		We shouldn't even be here. We shouldn't even be here. Stills tries to run. Scott grabs him and pulls him back.
scott		Come on man! I put aside my problems for the music. If I can do that, we can do anything.
kim pine		Did you speak to Ramona then?
scott		What? No. I haven't seen her since the other night.
kim pine		Oh. She's totally here.
kim pine		Scott? Not that I care...but you should talk to her before she's gone...
kim pine		And I really don't care. Scott nods at Kim's advice. He looks back to the crowd to find the MYSTERY GEEK staring right at him. Then- Disorienting LIGHTS and LASERS flash on the opposite stage. A wall of FEEDBACK builds...THE KATAYANAGI TWINS appear, sliding onstage behind their respective keyboard stands. KYLE KATAYANAGI, 23, is very serious and Japanese. KEN KATAYANAGI, 23, is serious and very Japanese. Scott, Stephen Stills and Kim share a nervous look.
stephen stills		Okay gang. Can we do this? I mean, we can do this. Right?
kim pine		Right.
stephen stills		Scott? Scott is distracted again by the Mystery Geek staring at him.
kim pine		Scott! Kyle Katayanagi hits a SINGLE NOTE on the keyboard, blasting an enormous wave of sound at Sex Bob-Omb. It's so loud that it shakes the foundations and rips the lighting rig from the ceiling, leaving a huge hole in the roof. The crowd cheers.
stephen stills		Let's break up now and get it over with. We screwed the pooch in front of Gideon Graves. We're done.
scott		Gideon...is here? Where? Stills points to the 'Mystery Geek', who smirks and whispers in Ramona's ear. This is GIDEON GRAVES, 37, ASSHOLE.
scott		That's Gideon? Scott's eyes reflect Ramona's hair and turn GREEN. He struggles to his feet. The crowd slowly stops clapping as Scott pulls Stills to his feet, then helps Kim up.
scott		Alright. Let's do this! Kim, inspired by Scott's new hardcore attitude, comes in heavy on the kick drum. BOOM-BOOM-BOOM-BOOM! Heads nod in time as Sex Bob-Omb ROCK OUT! Their waveforms transform a mass of snow into a GREEN EYED YETI! The Katayanagis fight back with their future sounds and their Sonic Dragon stalks towards Sex Bob-Omb, slinking on perfect beat with the Katayanagis' spooky music. The Yeti and the Dragons CLASH at center stage, fighting in time to the music! Scott and Stills bring their pick hands down like fierce PUNCHES. The Yeti brings it's fists down on The Dragon. Sex Bob-Omb HAMMER DOWN THE FINAL NOTE:
kim pine		That...was epic. The crowd goes bazooky. A DISEMBODIED SCOTT HEAD appears, hovering next to Scott. Scott looks for Ramona in the crowd, but she and Gideon are gone. Scott hands his bass to Young Neil.
stephen stills		Scott. What are you doing?
scott		Getting a life. Scott swipes the SCOTT HEAD and jumps into the still- applauding crowd. He can't find Ramona, but comes upon KNIVES standing alone in her homemade Sex Bob-Omb T-shirt.
knives chau		I just came to see the show. I'm not even stalking you. Knives's unusally composed demeanor gives Scott pause.
scott		You seem... different. Knives shrugs, different.
knives chau		I feel like I know stuff now. Scott and Knives lock eyes. Scott suddenly spots a flash of GREEN HAIR exiting the building.
scott		Ramona... Scott follows. Knives watches him go, eyes narrowing.
scott		Ramona. I have something I need to tell you.
ramona		Yeah, I have something to-
ramona		What?
scott		I really, really mean it.
ramona		Oh. Okay.
scott		What did you want to tell me?
ramona		That we have to break up.
scott		What?
ramona		Yeah...it's not going to work out.
scott		Oh okay... A sleek black '61 Lincoln Continental pulls up behind.
ramona		It's Gideon. I just...I can't help myself around him.
gideon graves		The good news, Scottie, is I'm officially loving the Sex Bombs.
scott		Bob-omb.
gideon graves		Three piece rock outfit with a semi- attractive female drummer? Music to my earholes. Scott glowers. Ramona looks at the floor. Stills is ga-ga. TEXT: An arrow points to Stills' crotch, captioned 'PEE'.
gideon graves		You know, I'm not even going to wait to see how you guys do in the final. I'm signing you right now for a three album deal. Gideon produces a CONTRACT and clicks a pen.
gideon graves		See? I'm not such a bad guy after all.
scott		You think we're gonna sell our souls to you? Well then guess- We hear SCRIBBLING. Stills has picked up the contract and is furiously signing it using Scott's back. Kim shrugs and signs it too, before trying to hand it back to Scott.
scott		Nuh-uh. I can't be part of the band with this douche-in-charge.
gideon graves		Scottie, buddy, can I just say, keep your emotions in check. Don't let what's past screw up your future. Scott watches Ramona get into the Continental. She rolls the mirrored window up so Scott stares at his own reflection.
stephen stills		The people need to hear us, Scott.
scott		Then you're going to need to find someone else to play bass. A cough. A meek Young Neil slides into view, bass in hand.
gideon		Looks like we're all set. Young Neil signs the contract. There are hand shakes all round. Gideon turns to Scott and pats him on the shoulder.
gideon		Oh and Scott, we should really be thanking each other. I mean, if it wasn't for me, you would have never been with Ramona, but if it wasn't for you, she wouldn't be back with me. So I guess it all shakes out. Gideon walks around to the driver side of the Lincoln.
gideon		And hey, the whole League of Evil Exes thing? I was in a dark place when I put that together. Forgiven? Gideon disappears into the Lincoln and drives off and Sex Bob-Omb drift away. Scott stands alone. He slaps his head-
scott		I said 'lesbians'!
scott		The wha?
stacey		I mean, did you really see a future with this girl?
scott		Like...with jetpacks? Stacey stands to go, gives Scott a hug.
stacey		Time heals all wounds, little brother. Maybe next time let's not date the girl with eleven evil ex- boyfriends.
scott		Seven.
stacey		Oh. Well that's not so bad. Stacey heads off. Scott looks at the camera.
scott		Aaah!
wallace		Scott, you know I love you. But I need my own bed tonight. For sex.
scott		Right.
wallace		I may need it the rest of the week too.
scott		Right. And the year.
scott		I get it.
wallace		Maybe you can move in with Ramona. Scott stares deep into his cocoa and shakes his head.
scott		She's with Gideon.
wallace		Ah. That sucks. But you know, it's probably just because he's better than you.
wallace		He'll certainly have better hair. Scott nods.
wallace		Either way, I think this fight is over. Scott nods.
wallace		You can sleep on the floor until you get somewhere else to stay. I got you muffs and blinkers in case this might happen. Wallace produces earmuffs and a sleep mask.
scott		Thanks. RINGY RING. Scott stares at the phone. Some guy picks up.
some guy		It's for Scott.
scott		Is Ramona with you?
gideon graves		I don't know. Are you with me?
gideon graves		Geez buddy, it's gonna be alright.
scott		No, I just spilled cocoa on my crotch.  
scott		Mm.
gideon graves		Okay laters. Click.
wallace		Forget what I said earlier. Finish him.
hipster kid		Password? Scott shrugs.
scott		Whatever.
hipster kid		Cool. The Hipster Kid waves Scott in.
hipster kid		Second password? Scott gives the slightest shrug.
hipster kid		Cool. Scott steps into the elevator. So far so good.
comeau		Yeah, their first album is so much better than their first album. Scott pushes through the idiot hordes. SEX BOB-OMB are playing onstage, now using SWEET BRAND amps, YOUNG NEIL on bass. Stills sees Scott walking by as they finish a song.
stephen stills		Scott! Scott pauses, looking up at his former bandmates.
scott		What if I want the satisfaction?
stephen stills		Well, then you're doomed.
gideon graves		Hey buddy, welcome to the Chaos Theatre. Somebody get this man a drink! Coke Zero right? A COCKTAIL WAITRESS with a fringe appears with a Coke Zero. Scott takes the beverage and THROWS THE CUP TO THE FLOOR!
scott		I'm not here to drink.
gideon graves		I got no beef with you.
scott		What if I have a beef...with you?
gideon graves		Are you still mad about that whole thing with the Guild?
scott		You mean 'The League'?
gideon		Guild, League, whatever. It's ancient history. Gideon puts his arm around Ramona.
scott		I'll show you how ancient of history it is. Scott gets into a fighting stance. Gideon loses his cool.
gideon graves		No use crying over spilt Coke, buddy. The lady made her choice and we're all gonna have to move on.
scott		Well I ain't moving...buddy.
gideon graves		You want to fight me for her?
scott		Was that not clear?  Was that not clear? Sex Bob-Omb shake their heads. Gideon stands up, flexes.
gideon graves		Now why on earth do you want to do that?
scott		Because, I'm in love with her. Ramona and Scott lock eyes. A new power comes over Scott. He reaches for the HEART DESIGN printed on his ratty vintage T- shirt and pulls a FLAMING BLUE SWORD from his own chest.
gideon graves		I think this deserves a song. Kimberly?
kim pine		We are Sex Bob-Omb, we are here to make money, and sell out and stuff. Kim clicks out a fast tempo. Sex Bob-Omb begin to ROCK OUT.
gideon graves		Ramona. My cane. Ramona hands Gideon a cane with G-MAN engraved on the handle. He unsheathes a SWORD that could not have fit in there. Scott and Gideon LEAP towards each other...Gideon descends like a vulture and SMASHES the sword out of Scott's hands. Scott hits the ground HARD, rolling to a stop.
scott		Your club sucks, by the way. Gideon approaches, to administer a final blow.
gideon		If my cathedral of cutting edge taste holds no interest for your tragically Canadian sensibilities, then I shall grant you a swift exit from the premises. And fast entrance into HELLLLLLL. Gideon raises his sword. Then from above...
gideon graves		That is priceless. Scott looks to Knives, both concerned and amazed. She quickly recovers and POINTS a furious finger.
knives chau		You'll pay for what you did to him!
gideon graves		Listen, Kung Pao Chicken, your old old boyfriend brought this all on himself. He was warned plenty of times. But did he listen? Did he f-
knives chau		I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to HER! Angle on a confused RAMONA standing behind Gideon.
ramona		What?
ramona		You're kidding right? Knives pulls out KNIVES and charges! Ramona fights defensively, redirecting Knives' parries without harming her.
gideon		You can't say I don't know how to put on a show. GIDEON lashes out at Scott. He can barely block Gideon's tremendous blows, distracted by his duelling exes.
ramona		What the hell is your deal?
knives chau		You stole him with your advanced American slut technology. DUAL DUEL! The fighters weave in and out of each other, throwing blocks and punches, KUNG FU STYLE.
ramona		I don't know what you're talking about, I didn't steal anyone. Scott lands a KICK to Gideon's chest, sending him flying off the edge of the pyramid. He then BLOCKS a punch from Knives to Ramona and spins her away, separating them.
scott		Can we please stop all this fighting! Nobody stole anybody. Knives, I dated you and then I dated Ramona. Okay?
knives chau		Then you cheated on me, Scott!
ramona		You cheated on me with Knives?
scott		No! I cheated on Knives. With you.
ramona		Is there a difference?
scott		You weren't wronged? Scott breaks into a flop sweat.
scott		Right? Knives and Ramona stare at Scott.
gideon graves		Scottie. You can cheat on these ladies all you want, but you can't...cheat...death. Scott slides off Gideon's sword and falls to the ground...
scott		Ugh. Ramona appears out of nowhere; fainter than before.
ramona		I'm sorry. Dying probably sucks.
scott		You know what sucks? Getting killed by THAT guy. Why him?
ramona		It's complicated.
scott		Well, maybe now would be the time to get into it. Seeing as I'm about to die.
ramona		Alright... the truth is, it was me who was obsessed. I was crazy about him. But he ignored me. I was more alone when we were together than I ever was on my own. That's why I had to leave... and that's when he started paying attention.
scott		So why go back?
ramona		I can't help myself around him, Scott. He just... has a way of getting into my head.
scott		Well, that's legitimately disappointing. I really will leave you alone forever now...
ramona		No. I mean, he literally has a way of getting into my head. Ramona lifts her hair up on the back of her head, revealing a blinking CHIP implanted on her skull.
scott		That is evil.
ramona		He's like that. Ramona covers the chip, self-consciously touching her hair.
scott		So this kinda sucks for everybody, eh?
ramona		I'm sorry it had to end this way. We had a good run, I guess.
scott		You can't say I didn't try. I really fought for you back there.
ramona		Uh-huh. The winds blow harder, Ramona seeming to fade away.
ramona		But someone was fighting pretty hard for you back there. Scott's eyes go wide with epiphany,
scott		Knives?
ramona		I wish I was ever as fanatically devoted to anything as that girl is to you. Ramona slowly dissolve away in the sand.
scott		I feel like I learned something. Which would be great if I wasn't dead. Ramona is gone. Scott slumps to his knees.
scott		So...so alone. DA-DING. The PILGRIM-HEAD appears and rotates around Scott.
scott		Ahhhhhh... We FLASH BACK to Scott swiping the PILGRIM HEAD, then FAST FORWARD through the breakup with Ramona and Sex Bob-Omb. We hear Scott screaming throughout this magical restart.
scott		Wallace, when my journey began, I was living in an ordinary world. Ramona skated through my dreams and it was like a call to adventure, a call I considered refusing. But my Mentor, that's you, told me if I want something bad enough I have to fight for it. So I did. There were tests, allies, enemies. I approached a deep cave and went through a crazy ordeal, during which I totally seized the sword. Sadly, I died. Then I resurrected! Now I realize what I should have been fighting for all along. But before I do that, I need to ask one final favor of you.
scott		Could you put a robe on and hand me the phone? Wallace flicks on a bedside lamp, hands him the phone.
scott		Toronto. Chaos Theatre. Gideon Graves.
scott		Hey, pal. I feel terrible about everything. I don't want any hard feelings, so I figure why not be the bigger man and give you a call.
scott		Sorry, what I meant to say is 'I'm coming over to kill you'. Scott hangs up and heads for the door, hardcore.
scott		You seen one...
scott		Your hair looks stupid. The Hipster Kid EXPLODES into COINS.
hipster kid		'Sup?
scott		Whatever. Scott SPLIT KICKS them in the faces, knocking them out.
comeau		Yeah, their first album is so- Scott KNOCKS DOWN Comeau and looks to Sex Bob-Omb.
stephen stills		Scott! Let it go.
scott		Don't worry. I know what I'm doing. Stephen, the new line-up rocks. You guys sound better without me. Young Neil? You have learned well. From this point forward, you shall be known as 'Neil'. And Kim? Kim looks at Scott, deadpan as ever.
scott		Save it. You're pretentious, the club sucks, I have beef, let's do it. Scott goes straight into fight mode.
gideon graves		You want to fight me for her? Ramona and Scott lock eyes. A strange new power overcomes Scott, different than before.
scott		No...I want to fight you for me. Scott reaches for the HEART DESIGN printed on his ratty T- shirt and pulls a FLAMING RED SWORD from his own chest.
scott		Kim?
gideon graves		Ramona. My cane. Ramona hands Gideon his cane. He unsheathes his SWORD. Scott and Gideon RUN towards each other, LEAPING in the air. They pass in the air and Scott SLASHES. They land on opposite sides of the platform, backs to each other.
scott		How's it going back there?
gideon graves		You dick.
scott		Knives! I know you're in here! Don't attack Ra- Knives SAILS through the air and KICKS Ramona in the head SUPER HARD. We hear a METALLIC KLONK. They square off, Ramona staggered, Knives pulling KNIVES.
knives chau		Steal my boyfriend, taste my steel. Scott jumps between them, hands held out.
knives chau		No, Scott! This fat ass hurt me and I will have my revenge!
scott		No, Knives. I hurt you. I cheated on you. Knives steps back, stunned.
knives chau		You cheated on me Scott?
scott		I cheated on both of you. And I'm sorry. I was a different guy back then. Knives' frown melts. Scott turns to Ramona.
ramona		Never felt better.
scott		Oh, you got a fight alright. Scott steps into a fighting stance. Knives joins him.
gideon		Ramona. Are you with me? Ramona looks to Gideon, then joins Scott and Knives and STRIKES A FIGHT POSE, the three of them ready to rumble.
ramona		Let's both be girls. Ramona knees Gideon in the balls. Gideon SWINGS his sword at Ramona. Knives whips off her scarf, uses it to wrap up Gideon's sword arm and disarms him. Scott and Knives punch Gideon in the face in a volley of
gideon		You made me swallow me gum. That's going to be in my digestive tract for seven years! Gideon throws a series of Wushu moves that give him a POWER UP - his glasses glow, his HEALTH BAR increases. He makes an 'X' with his fingers and a draws a NEW POWER UP SWORD. He cuts big arcs at Scott, Knives and Ramona. They barely dodge him. Scott SPIES his sword and picks it up just in time to BLOCK Gideon's attack. The swords create an 'X'. Ramona KICKS. Gideon BLOCKS, knocking her down. Gideon swings at Scott. Scott ducks. Knives attacks and scores a hit. Gideon hits her back, dropping her. SCOTT ATTACKS. They fence. Gideon spins low. Scott leaps in the air. Gideon spins again and swings upward. Scott blocks with his sword and is sent UP into the air. Gideon jumps after him. They CLASH in the air. Scott's sword SHATTERS.
scott		You're right. I'm not cool enough for Ramona. And you got another thing right. You are blowing up. Right now. Scott spins and BACK HEELS Gideon in the face. Gideon's head EXPLODES, his glasses SAILING down the steps of the pyramid. Then his body follows suit in an almighty-
young neil		Whoa...
kim pine		There goes our deal.
stephen stills		We're still getting paid, right? Kim points to the falling coins.
kim pine		There goes our deal.
young neil		Oh... Stills jumps off stage and picks up coins. The coin rain continues, silhouetting Scott and Knives in their kung fu poses. They share a smile.
scott		Yeah?
ramona		Yeah.
knives chau		Negascott! NEGASCOTT walks towards Scott, Knives and Ramona. Fringed hair. Dark clothes. Evil face. Knives and Ramona flank Scott in a fighting stance.
scott		No. This is something I have to face on my own. The girls reluctantly exit stage left as Scott walks forward to confront his dark side. Scott and Negascott face off. Both take a step forward...
knives chau		What happened?
scott		Aw, nothing. We just shot the shit. He's a super-nice guy. We actually have a lot in common. Scott runs his fingers through his hair.
knives chau		Your hair.
scott		What?
knives chau		It's getting really shaggy. Scott's HAT appears on his head! He looks totally freked.
scott		Yeah?
knives chau		I like it. Knives removes the hat from Scott's head, literally taking his guard down. Ramona sees this and smiles.
scott		You do? Scott smiles, then realizes Ramona has gone. He turns to see her, pulling her hood up and walking into the darkness. Scott calls after her. Steps tentatively away from Knives.
scott		Hey... Where are you going? Ramona, hoping to slip away, stops and turns back.
ramona		I dunno. I should probably disappear.
scott		After all that?
ramona		It's hard, you know? I came here to get away, but the past keeps catching up. I'm tired of people getting hurt because of me. Ramona looks at Knives as she says this.
scott		I think I understand. Snow begins to fall. Ramona straightens his parka tenderly.
ramona		I should tahnk you, though.
scott		For what?
ramona		For being the nicest guy I ever dated.
scott		That's kind of sad.
ramona		Well... Bye and stuff.
scott		Yeah. And stuff. She turns to walk off again. Scott watches, then hears-
scott		Wha?
knives		You earned it. You've been fighting for her all along.
scott		But what about you?
knives		 I'll be fine. I'm too cool for you anyway. She grins and kisses his cheek.
knives		There's someone out there for me. We hear a COUGH - Young Neil sidles into frame behind her. Guitar still in hand. We hear a 2ND COUGH - Nega Scott also sidles into frame. Knives doesn't look back, but urges Scott to-
knives		Go talk to her. Before she's gone. Ramona walks on into the night alone, but then-
ramona		You want to come with me?
****Dialogues from script :Scream.txt****

casey		Hello.
man's voice		 Hello.
casey		Yes.
man		Who is this?
casey		Who are you trying to reach?
man		What number is this?
casey		What number are you trying to reach?
man		I don't know.
casey		I think you have the wrong number.
man		Do I?
casey		It happens. Take it easy.
casey		Hello.
man		I'm sorry. I guess I dialed the wrong number.
casey		So why did you dial it again?
man		To apologize.
casey		You're forgiven. Bye now.
man		Wait, wait, don't hang up.
casey		What?
man		I want to talk to you for a second.
casey		They've got 900 numbers for that. Seeya.
casey		Hello.
man		Why don't you want to talk to me?
casey		Who is this?
man		You tell me your name, I'll tell you mine.
casey		 I don't think so.
man		What's that noise?
casey		Popcorn.
man		You're making popcorn?
casey		Uh-huh.
man		I only eat popcorn at the movies.
casey		I'm getting ready to watch a video.
man		Really? What?
casey		Just some scary movie.
man		Do you like scary movies?
casey		Uh-huh.
man		What's your favorite scary movie?
casey		I don't know.
man		You have to have a favorite.
casey		Uh...HALLOWEEN. You know, the one with the guy with the white mask who just sorta walks around and stalks the baby sitters. What's yours?
man		Guess.
casey		Uh...NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET.
man		Is that the one where the guy had knives for fingers?
casey		Yeah...Freddy Krueger.
man		Freddy-that's right. I liked that movie. It was scary.
casey		The first one was, but the rest sucked.
man		So, you gotta boyfriend?
casey		 Why? You wanna ask me out?
man		Maybe. Do you have a boyfriend?
casey		No.
man		You never told me your name.
casey		Why do you want to know my name?
man		Because I want to know who I'm looking at.
casey		What did you say?
man		I want to now who I'm talking to.
casey		That's not what you said.
man		What do you think I said?
casey		I have to go now.
man		Wait...I thought we were gonna go out.
casey		Nah, I don't think so...
man		Don't hang up on me.
casey		Gotta go.
man		Don't...
casey		Yes?
man		I told you not to hang up on me.
casey		What do you want?
man		To talk.
casey		Dial someone else, okay?
man		You getting scared?
casey		No-bored.
casey		Listen, asshole...
man		 NO, YOU LISTEN, YOU LITTLE BITCH. IF YOU HANG UP ON ME AGAIN I'LL GUT YOU LIKE A FISH. UNDERSTAND?
casey		Is this some kind of a joke?
man		More of a game, really.
casey		I'm two seconds from calling the police.
man		They'd never make it in time.
casey		What do you want?
man		 TO SEE WHAT YOUR INSIDES LOOK LIKE.
casey		 Who's there?
casey		 Who's there?
man		You should never say "Who's there?". Don't you watch scary movies? It's a death wish.
casey		Look, enough is enough. You had your fun now you better leave me alone or else.
man		Or else what?
casey		My boyfriend will be here any second and he'll be pissed when I tell him...
man		I thought you didn't have a boyfriend.
casey		I lied. I do have a boyfriend and he'll be here any second and your ass better be gone.
man		Sure...
casey		I swear it. And he's big and plays football and will beat the shit out of you.
man		I'm getting scared.
casey		I'm telling you the truth. I lied before...
man		I believe you...
casey		So you better leave.
man		His name wouldn't be Steve, would it?
casey		How do you know his name?
man		Go to the back door and turn on the porch light--again.
casey		Oh Goddddd...
man		I wouldn't do that if I were you.
casey		Where are you?
man		Guess.
casey		 Please don't hurt him.
man		That all depends on you.
casey		Why are you doing this?
man		I wanna play a game.
casey		No...
man		Then he dies. Right now.
casey		NOOO!
man		Which is it?
casey		What kind of game?
man		Turn off the light.
man		Here's how we play. I ask a question. If you get it right-Steve lives.
casey		Please don't do this...
man		Come on. It'll be fun.
casey		No...please.
man		It's an easy category. Movie trivia.
casey		 ..please...
man		I'll even give you a warm up question.
casey		Don't do this. I can't..
man		Name the killer in HALLOWEEN.
casey		No...
man		Come on. It's you favorite scary movie, remember? He had a white mask, he stalked the baby-sitters.
casey		I don't know...
man		Come on, yes you do.
casey		Please..stop...
man		What's his name?
casey		I can't think.
man		Steve's counting on you.
casey		 Michael...Michael Myers.
man		YES!
man		Now for the real question.
casey		NOOOO....
man		But you're doing so well.
casey		Please go away! Leave us alone!
man		Then answer the question. Same category.
casey		..please..no...
man		Name the killer in FRIDAY THE 13TH.
casey		Jason! Jason!...JASON!
man		I'm sorry. That's the wrong answer.
casey		No it's not. It was Jason.
man		Afraid not.
casey		It was Jason. I saw that godamned movie twenty times. It was Jason.
man		Then you should know Jason's MOTHER -Mrs.Vorhees was the original killer. Jason didn't show up until the sequel.
casey		You tricked me...
man		Lucky, for you there's a bonus round. But poor Steve...I'm afraid...he's out.
man		Final question. Are you ready?
casey		..leave me alone..please...
man		Answer the question and I will.
man		What door am I at?
casey		What?
man		There are two doors to your house. A front door and a back one. If you answer correctly-you live.
casey		Don't make me...I can't...I won't.
man		Your call.
man		I can hear you. I know you're here.
father		That fish smelled strong.
mother		I told you to send it back.
father		Jesus...
mother		What is it? Where's Casey?
father		 Casey? Casey?
mother		Where is she?
father		Call the police.
father		 Casey? Where are you honey? Call the police, goddammit.
mother		The phone's dead.
casey		 ..help me...
mother		She's here, God, I can hear her. Where's my baby?
father		Where is she?
mother		I can hear her. Oh Mother of God, I can hear her.
father		Casey! Casey!
mother		Not my daughter...not my...
father		Get in the car and drive down to the Mackenzie's.
voice		 Hey...it's just me.
sidney		Billy? What the...
billy		I'm sorry. Don't hate me.
sidney		What are you doing here?
billy		You sleep in THAT?
sidney		 My dad's in the other room.
billy		I'll only stay a sec.
voice		 What's going on in there?
sidney		Can you knock?
sidney		No you didn't.
sidney		..out at the airport...
sidney		Got it.
sidney		Have a good trip.
billy		Close call.
sidney		What are you doing here?
billy		It just occurred to me that I've never snuck through your bedroom window.
sidney		Now that it's out of your system.
billy		And I was home, bored, watching television, THE EXORCIST was on and it got me thinking of you.
sidney		Oh it did?
billy		Yeah, it was edited for TV. All the good stuff was cut out and I started thinking about us and how two years ago, we started off kinda hot and heavy, a nice solid "R" rating on our way to an NC17. And how things have changed and, lately, we're just sot of...edited for television.
sidney		So you thought you could sneak in my window and we would  have little bump- bump.
billy		No, no. I wouldn't dream of breaking your underwear rule. I just thought we might do some on top of the clothes stuff.
sidney		Time to go, stud bucket.
billy		See what you do to me.
sidney		You know what my dad will do to you?
billy		I'm going...I'm going.
sidney		I appreciate the romantic gesture.
billy		 Hey..about the sex stuff. I'm not trying to rush you. I was only half serious.
sidney		Would you settle for a PG-13 relationship?
billy		What's that?
sidney		Get outa here.
disc jockey		 ..found brutally murdered...
gale		 The small town of Bayboro, North Carolina was devastated last night when two young teenagers were found brutally butchered. Authorities have yet to issue a statement but our sources tell us that no arrest has been made and the murderer could strike again...
tatum		Do you believe this shit?
sidney		What happened?
tatum		Oh God! You don't know? Casey Becker and Steve Forrest were killed last night.
sidney		No way.
tatum		And not just killed, Sid. We're talking splatter movie killed-split open end to end.
sidney		Casey Becker? She sits next to me in English.
tatum		Not anymore. Her parents found her hanging from a tree. Her insides on the outside.
sidney		Do they know who did it?
tatum		Fucking clueless-they're interrogating the entire school. Teachers, students, staff, janitors...
sidney		They think it's school-related?
tatum		They don't know. Dewey said this is the worst crime they've ever seen. Even worse than...  Well it's bad. They're bringing in the feds. This is big.
sheriff burke		Who's up next?
dewey		Sidney Prescott.
dewey		We all know Sidney, Mr. Himbry.
sheriff burke		How she doin'?
sheriff burke		Hi Sidney.
sidney		Sheriff Burke. Dewey.
dewey		It's Deputy Riley today, Sid.
sheriff burke		How is everything?
sidney		Good.
sheriff burke		And your Dad? How's he doing?
sidney		We're fine. Thanks.
tatum		Hunt? Why would they ask if you like to hunt?
stu		I don't know, they just did.
randy		Because their bodies were gutted.
billy		Thanks Randy.
tatum		They didn't ask me if I like to hunt.
stu		Because there's no way a girl could have killed them.
tatum		That is so sexist. The killer could easily be female-BASIC INSTINCT.
randy		That was an ice pick-not exactly the same.
stu		Yeah, Casey and Steve were completely hollowed out. Takes a man to do something like that.
tatum		Or a man's mentality.
sidney		 How do you gut someone?
stu		You take a knife and slit from the groin to the sternum.
stu		What? She asked.
billy		It's called tact, you fuckrag.
stu		Sorry.
randy		Remember in JAWS when they caught the wrong shark at first and Richard Dreyfuss cut it open to look foe body parts and all they found was a licence plate and all this white milky goo.
stu		You heard Billy-shut the fuck up.
sidney		Hey, Stu? Didn't you use to date Casey?
stu		For about two seconds.
randy		Before she dumped him foe Steve.
tatum		I thought you dumped her for me.
stu		I did. He's full of shit.
randy		And are the police aware you dated the victim?
stu		 What are you saying? That I killed her or something?
randy		It would certainly improve your high school Q.
tatum		Stu was with me last night.
randy		Oooooh...before or after he sliced and diced.
tatum		Fuck you, nut case. Where were you last night?
randy		Working, thank you.
tatum		I thought Blockbuster fired you.
randy		Twice.
stu		I didn't kill anybody.
billy		No one's saying you did.
randy		Besides-  "Takes a man to do something like that."
stu		I'm gonna gut your ass in a second.
randy		 Did you really put her liver in the mailbox? I hear they found her liver in the mailbox.
tatum		 Randy, you goon-fuck, I'm eating here.
stu		Yeah, Randy, she's getting mad. I think you better liver alone.
sidney		 You sure I can stay over?  My dad won't be back til Sunday.
tatum		 No prob. I'll pick you up after practice.
sidney		Tell your mom I said thanks.
tatum		Yeah, yeah...are you okay?
sidney		Uh-huh, it's just...you know, the police and reporters...it brings it all back.
tatum		I'll be there by seven. I promise
sidney		Thanks, Tatum.
tatum		Later.
gale		This is not the first time the small town of Bayboro has endured such tragedy. Only a year ago, Maureen Prescott, wife and mother, was found raped and murdered...
tatum		 Practice ran late. I'm on my way.
sidney		 It's past seven.
tatum		Don't worry. Casey and Steve didn't bite it til way after ten.
sidney		I'm not worried.
tatum		Good, 'cause I wanna swing by BLOCKBUSTER and get us a video. I was thinkin' Tom Cruise in ALL THE RIGHT MOVES. You know, if you pause it just right you can see his penis.
sidney		Whatever. Just hurry.
tatum		Bye.
sidney		 Tatum?
man's voice		 Hello, Sidney.
sidney		Hi. Who is this?
man		You tell me.
sidney		I have no idea.
man		Scary night, isn't it? With the murders and all, it's like right out of a horror movie or something.
sidney		Aha, Randy, you gave yourself away. Are you calling from work? Tatum's on her way over.
man		Do you like scary movies, Sidney?
sidney		I like that thing you're doing with your voice, Randy. It's sexy.
man		What's your favorite scary movie?
sidney		Don't start. You know I don't watch that shit.
man		And why is that?
sidney		 Because they're all the same. It's always some stupid killer stalking some big breasted girl-who can't act-who always runs up the stairs when she should be going out the front door. They're ridiculous.
man		Are you alone in the house?
sidney		That is so unoriginal. You disappoint me, Randy.
man		Maybe that's because I'm not Randy.
sidney		So who are you?
man		The question is not who am I. The question is where am I?
sidney		So where are you?
man		Your front porch.
sidney		Why would you call me from my front porch?
man		That's the original part.
sidney		Oh yeah? Well I call your bluff.
sidney		So where are you?
man		Right here.
sidney		Can you see me right now?
man		Uh-huh.
sidney		What am I doing?
sidney		Good try, Randy. Tell Tatum to hurry. Bye now.
man		If you hang up, you'll die just like your mother.
man		 Do you want to die, Sidney? Your mother didn't.
sidney		FUCK YOU! YOU CRETIN!
sidney		Oh Billy...Please...God...
billy		I heard screaming. The door was locked. Are you okay...
sidney		He's here. He's trying to kill me...
billy		Hey...wait...what's goin..
billy		 I didn't do anything! Sid...where's Sid? Ask her, she'll tell ya...
dewey		We got him, Sheriff. Billy Loomis.
sheriff burke		Hank Loomis' kid? Aw..Jesus...
dewey		He's her boyfriend.
billy		Sheriff...I didn't do it...please, call my Dad..please...
dewey		I was first to respond.
sheriff burke		What were you doing out here?
dewey		Drive by patrol.
sheriff burke		How is she?
dewey		She's tough.
sheriff burke		Have to be. The shit she's gone through.
sheriff burke		We're seeing a lot of you today.
dewey		You gonna be able to come down to the station and talk to us a bit?
sidney		..yeah...
tatum		What happened? Oh God...
dewey		 What are you doing here?
tatum		Oh, God, Sid, I'm sorry I was late.
dewey		You can't be here, Tatum. This is an official crime scene.
sidney		It's okay. She was supposed to pick me up.
tatum		Her dad's out of town. She's staying with us.
dewey		Does mom know?
tatum		Yes, you doofus.
sheriff burke		The vultures are coming. Let's get you out of here.
gale		I'll be damned.
kenny		What? What?
gale		Jesus! The camera-hurry!
gale		Excuse me?
gale		Was that Sidney Prescott they took away?
tatum		I don't know.
gale		What happened to her?
tatum		I'm not talking to you.
kenny		Where'd she go?
gale		Look, Kenny, I know you're about fifty pounds overweight but when I say hurry please interpret that as...MOVE YOUR FAT TUB OF LARD ASS NOW!
sidney		Did you reach my Dad?
dewey		You're sure it was the Hilton?
sidney		At the airport.
dewey		He's not registered. Could he have gone to another hotel?
sidney		I don't know. I guess.
dewey		We'll find him, Sid. Don't worry.
sheriff burke		What are you doing with a cellular telephone, son?
sheriff burke		You got some ideas of playing around, boy.
billy		I didn't call anyone with it. I just took it for fun.
sheriff burke		Thank you, Hank. We're on it. What were you doing out at Sidney's tonight?
billy		I just wanted to see her, that's all.
sheriff burke		You rode your bike out there?
billy		Yes, sir.
sheriff burke		And last night? Sidney said you crawled through her window last night too?
billy		I watched TV for awhile but the I felt like going for a bike ride.
sheriff burke		Did you ride past Casey Becker's house?
billy		No, I didn't. I didn't kill anyone, Sheriff.
sheriff burke		We're gonna have to keep you, Billy. The governor's got SBI, FBI, and god knows who else on their way down here.
billy		This is crazy. I didn't do it.
dewey		That ghost mask is sold at both Kroger's and WalMart. Neither of which keep purchase records.
sheriff burke		What about the cellular phone bill?
dewey		They're pulling Loomis' account. But it'll be morning before we see something. You think he did it?
sheriff burke		Twenty years ago I woulda said not a chance. But these kids today...damn if I know.
tatum		 Hey...Dewey. Can we go now?
dewey		Hold up a sec...
sheriff burke		She staying with you?
dewey		We haven't located her Dad yet.
tatum		 Goddammit, Dewey!
dewey		What did Mama tell you? When I wear this badge you treat me like a man of the law.
tatum		I'm sorry, Deputy Dewey-boy but we're ready to go.
sheriff burke		Use the back way. Avoid the circus.
dewey		I'll get the car. Wait here.
gale		Hello Sidney.
gale		Some night. Are you alright?
gale		What happened?
tatum		She's not answering any questions. Just leave us alone, okay?
sidney		It's okay, Tatum. She's just doing her job. Right, GALE?
gale		Yes, that's right.
sidney		How's the book?
gale		It'll be out later this year.
sidney		I'll look for it.
gale		I'll send you a copy.
tatum		God, I loved it. "I'll send you a copy." BAM! Bitch went down. "I'll send you a copy." BAM! Sid--SuperBitch!
dewey		I thought you might want some ice for that right hook.
dewey		I'll be right next door. Try to get some sleep.
sidney		Any word on my Dad?
dewey		 Not yet, but we're looking. If you need anything...
tatum		Yeah, yeah, yeah...
sidney		Just another sleepover at the Riley's.
tatum		Just like old times, ain't it?
sidney		No, nothing's like it used to be.
tatum		Do you really think Billy did it?
sidney		He was there, Tatum.
tatum		I knew this guy was too perfect. He was destined to have a flaw.
mama riley		Telephone, dear.
tatum		Who is it?
mama riley		It's for Sid
sidney		My Dad?
tatum		Take a message.
sidney		It's alright. I'll get it.
mama riley		 How is she?
sidney		Hello?
man		 Hello Sidney.
sidney		NOOOOOO...
man		 Poor Billy-boyfriend. An innocent guy doesn't stand a chance with you.
sidney		LEAVEMEALONE!
man		Looks like you fingered the wrong guy...again.
sidney		Who are you?
tatum		Hang up, Sid.
man		Don't worry. You'll find out soon enough. I promise.
mama riley		Dewey! Dewey!
man		This is gonna be fun, Sidney. Just like old times.
dewey		What? What?
mama riley		I think you girls really should stay home today.
tatum		Your objection is duly noted.
sidney		I'd rather be around a lot of people, Mama Riley.
reporter		 ..who escaped a vicious attack last night was the daughter of Maureen Prescott who was brutally killed last year when convicted murderer Cotton Weary...
reporter		 ..broke into their home and savagely raped and tortured the deceased. Cotton Weary is currently awaiting appeal for the death sentence handed down after the young Sidney testified against him. She was the key witness in the state's prosecution...
sidney		It's never gonna stop. Is it?
dewey		Billy was released. His cellular bill was clean. He didn't make those calls.
sidney		Somebody called me, Dewey. I'm not making it up.
dewey		I know. We're checking every cellular account in the county. Any calls made to you or Casey Becker are being cross- referenced. It's gonna take time but we'll find him.
sidney		And my Dad? Any word on him?
dewey		Hey, it's school. You'll be safe here.
reporter		How does it feel to almost be brutally murdered?
dewey		Leave the girl alone, will ya? She wants to go to school.
tatum		Come on, Sid.
sidney		Just a sec...I need to talk to someone.
gale		Stop right there.
sidney		I'm not here to fight.
gale		Just stay back.
sidney		I want to talk to you.
gale		 Kenny. Camera. Now.
sidney		Off the record. No cameras.
gale		Forget it.
sidney		Please. You owe me.
gale		I owe you shit.
sidney		You owe my mother.
gale		Your mother's murder was last year's hottest court case. Somebody was gonna write a book about it.
sidney		And it had to be you with all your lies and bullshit theories.
gale		What is your problem? You got what you wanted. Cotton Weary is in jail. They're gonna gas him. A book is not gonna change that.
sidney		Do you still think he's innocent?
gale		He was convicted in a court of law. Your testimony put him away. It doesn't matter what I think.
sidney		During the trial, you did all those stories about me. You called me a liar.
gale		I think you falsely identified him. Yes.
sidney		Have you talked to Cotton?
gale		Many times.
sidney		Has his story changed?
gale		Not one word. He admits to having sex with your mother but that's all.
sidney		He's lying. She wouldn't have touched him. He raped her, then butchered her. Her blood was all over his coat.
gale		He was drunk that night. He left his coat at your house, after your mother seduced him...
sidney		I saw him leaving wearing it.
gale		But couldn't it have been someone else you saw wearing that coat? The same person who planted it in Cotton's car, framing him? The same person who really killed your mother?
sidney		No, Cotton murdered my mother.
gale		You're not so sure anymore, are you?
sidney		No, it was Cotton.
tatum		 Nice welt.
gale		The killer is still on the loose, isn't he? These murders are related.
tatum		Yo--let's rock.
sidney		I'm sorry I mangled your face.
gale		Wait, Sidney, don't go...
gale		Jesus Christ! An innocent man on death row. A killer still on the loose. Kenny, tell me I'm dreaming.
kenny		You want to go live?
gale		No, not so fast. We have nothing concrete.
kenny		When did that ever stop you? You can't sit on this. This is huge.
gale		If I'm gonna blow this up-I need hard proof.
kenny		But it's so much easier when we make it up.
gale		Not this time. I owe Cotton that much. Hell, even I thought that man was guilty.
tatum		Just relax. You're at school now. No one can get you here.
sidney		But if it wasn't Billy it could be anybody. He could be here at school right now.
tatum		Serial killers are smart by definition. They minimize their risk. They plan and pre-calculate everything. Showing up here would be the most lame-brain move he could make.
sidney		He promised me he'd be back.
tatum		I wouldn't put too much stock in a psycho's promise.
reporter		This morning several students, in what appears to be a prank, have been spotted wearing masks. School officials have yet to comment but this is the same type of mask worn by the killer...
sidney		This is a mistake. I shouldn't be here.
tatum		I want you to meet me here right after class, okay?
tatum		Shit, what is he doing here?
sidney		I bet he's pissed.
tatum		Just ignore him. You had good reason to think what you did.
billy		Hi, Sid. Can we talk a sec?
tatum		You know if I were accused of carving up two people, I'd take the opportunity to skip school.
stu		Hey, go easy, Tatum. He didn't do it.
billy		Talk to me, Sid.
sidney		Why are they doing this?
stu		Are you kidding? This is like Christmas.
stu		Owwww...
billy		You open your mouth and stupidity pours out.
stu		Sorry.
tatum		 Stay away from her, Billy.
sidney		Jesus, SHIT!
billy		Hey, hey, it's just me.
billy		What? You don't still think it's me?
sidney		No...I don't...it's just...Oh God, Billy, someone was there, someone tried to kill me.
billy		The police say I scared him off. It wasn't me, Sid.
sidney		I know. He called again last night at Tatum's house.
billy		See, it couldn't have been me. I was in jail, remember?
sidney		I'm so sorry...please understand.
billy		Understand what? That I got a girlfriend who would rather accuse me of being a psychopathic killer than touch me.
sidney		You know that's not true.
billy		Then what is it? Is there somebody else?
sidney		No...
billy		Is it the sex thing? Am I being too pushy?
sidney		No, it's me, Billy. I need time. I'm still adjusting to my mom.
billy		It's been a year since she died.
sidney		 Tomorrow. One year tomorrow.
billy		When are you gonna let that go, Sid? When my mom left my dad--I just accepted it. This is the way it is. She's not coming back.
sidney		 Your parents split up. It's not the same thing. Your mom left town, she's not in a coffin somewhere.
billy		You have to move on, Sid.
sidney		I'm glad to know you're coping so well with life, Billy. But some of us aren't so perfect. Some of us are just trying to hold on.
sidney		Pathetic.
man		 Siddneey...
sidney		Is someone there?
man		 It's me, Sidney.
sidney		 He's here...I saw him...he's here...
sheriff burke		 She's okay. Looks like some boys were teasing her. Himbry's shutting down the school though. I want you to take look around.
dewey		Yes, sir, sheriff.
gale		Hi! Gale Weathers. Field Correspondent, INSIDE STORY.
dewey		I know who you are, ma'am. How's the eye?
gale		Productive. So they're closing down the school?
dewey		Well..uh...yes ma'am. For the time being.
gale		And why is that? Has something happened?
dewey		You're not supposed to be here, ma'am.
gale		I know, I should be in New York covering the Sharon Stone stalker but who knew? Please, call me Gale. You look awfully young to be a police officer.
dewey		I'm twenty-five years old, ma'am.
gale		Twenty-five, huh? In a demographic study I proved to be most popular amongst males, 11-24. I just missed you. Of course, you don't look a day over twelve, except in the upper torso area. Does the force require that you work out?
dewey		No, ma'am. Because of my boyish good looks, muscle mass has increased my acceptance as a serious police officer.
gale		Boy, you people sure do make fuss over a serial killer.
dewey		Serial killer is not really accurate, ma'am. The killer has yet to strike twice.
gale		Well, we can hope, can't we? We certainly don't have any leads. A ghost mask, a cellular phone--not much there.
dewey		We're tracking the cellular phone bill.
gale		Really? You small town guys are good. And have you located Sidney's father?
dewey		No, not yet.
gale		He's not a suspect, is he?
dewey		We haven't ruled out that possibil...
dewey		If you'll excuse me, ma'am.
gale		Am I keeping you? I'm sorry.
dewey		That's quite alright. If I may say so, ma'am, you're much prettier in person.
gale		So you do watch the show?
dewey		I just turned 25. I was 24 for a whole year.
gale		You are precious. Please, call me Gale.
tatum		It was just some sick fuck having a laugh.
sidney		It was him, Tatum. I know it.
tatum		You are not to be alone again. Is that clear? If you pee--I pee.
stu		Is this not cool or what? Hey, Sid, what happened?
tatum		For once, Stu, drop it.
stu		Okay, but whatever you did--the entire student body thanks you.
stu		And to celebrate this impromptu fall break, I propose we have a party. Tonight, my house.
sidney		Are you serious?
stu		My parents are out of town. It'll be like my hurricane bash last year. Nothing extreme. Just a few of us, hangin'.
tatum		This could be good. What do you think, Sid?
sidney		I don't know...
tatum		Come on. Pathos has it's perks.
stu		Remember, there's safety in numbers.
sidney		 Yeah, okay...whatever.
stu		Cool. See you guys tonight. Bring food.
tatum		Maybe Cotton Weary is telling the truth. Maybe he was having an affair with your mom.
sidney		So you think my mom was a slut too?
tatum		I didn't say that, Sid. But you know there were rumors. Your dad was always out of town on business. Maybe your mom was a very unhappy woman.
sidney		If they were having an affair how come that Cotton couldn't prove it in court?
tatum		You can't prove a rumor. That's why it's a rumor.
sidney		Created by that little tabloid twit Gale Weathers.
tatum		 It goes further back, Sid. There's been talk about other men.
sidney		And you believe it?
tatum		Well...you can only hear that Richard Gere-gerbil story so many times before you have to start believing it.
sidney		If I was wrong Cotton, then he's still out there.
tatum		Don't go there, Sid. You're starting to sound like some Wes Carpenter flick. Don't freak yourself out--we've got a long night ahead of us.
sidney		You're right. I'm cracking up. Ignore me.
tatum		Come on, let's rock.
billy		How'd you do?
stu		Piece of cake. She'll be there.
billy		Thanks, butt wart. You did good.
stu		So you gonna try and make up with Sid?
billy		Duh...that's quick.
stu		I was just asking. Why are you always at me?
billy		Because I'm trying to build your self- esteem. You're far too sensitive.
stu		Oh....
billy		You ready to party hard tonight?
stu		You know it.
stu		Jesus, this place is packed.
randy		 We had a run in the mass murder section.
stu		You coming tonight?
randy		Yeah, I'm off early--curfew you know.  Now that's poor taste.
stu		What?
randy		If you were the only suspect in a senseless bloodbath would you be standing in the horror section?
stu		It was all a misunderstanding. He didn't do anything.
randy		You're such a little lap dog. He's got killer printed all over his forehead.
stu		The why'd the police let him go?
randy		Because, obviously they don't watch enough movies. This is standard horror movie stuff. PROM NIGHT revisited.
stu		Why would he want to kill his own girlfriend?
randy		There's always some stupid bullshit reason to kill your girlfriend. That's the beauty of it all. Simplicity. Besides, if it's too complicated you lose your target audience.
stu		So what's his reason?
randy		Maybe Sidney wouldn't have sex with him.
stu		She's saving herself for you.
randy		Could be. Now that Billy's tried to mutilate her, you think Sid would go out with me?
stu		I think her father did it. How come they can't find his ass?
randy		Because he's probably dead. His body will come popping out in the last reel somewhere...eyes gauged. See, the police are always off track with this shit, if they'd watch PROM NIGHT they'd save time. There's formula to it. A very simple one. Everyone's always a suspect--the father, the principal, the town derelict...
stu		Which is you...
randy		So while they're off investigating a dead end, Billy, who's been written off as a suspect, is busy planning his next hunting expedition.
billy		 How do we know you're not the killer?
randy		Uh...hi, Billy.
billy		Maybe your movie-freaked mind lost it's reality button?
randy		You're absolutely right. I'm the first to admit it. If this were a scary movie, I'd be the prime suspect.
stu		And what would be your motive?
randy		It's 1995--motives are incidental.
dewey		A party? Mom's gonna kill you. Then me.
tatum		Don't be so self-righteous. It's just a little blow out--we'll be perfectly safe.
sidney		God, look at this place, it's THE TOWN THAT DREADED SUNDOWN.
dewey		Hey, I saw that movie. True story, 'bout some killer in Texas.
tatum		Hey, Sid. Just think if they make a movie about you. Who's gonna play you?
sidney		Oh, god...
dewey		I see you as a young Meg Ryan myself.
sidney		Thanks, Dewey. But with my luck they'd cast Tori Spelling.
dewey		I'll just be a few minutes. Don't go far.
sidney		Is Billy going to be there tonight?
tatum		He better not be. I told Stu to keep his mouth shut. I think we can live without EVERYBODY'S ALL AMERICAN for one night.
tatum		Two minutes tops.
sheriff burke		Dewey! Where the hell you been, boy?
dewey		Keeping my eye on Sidney.
sheriff burke		Listen up, Dewey, because it's bad. Real bad. Aircomp just faxed us. The calls were listed to Neil Prescott--Sidney's father. He made the calls with his cellular phone. It's confirmed.
dewey		Couldn't his cellular number have been cloned?
sheriff burke		There's more. Guess what tomorrow is? The anniversary of his wife's death. It all fits. He's our man.
dewey		Have you contacted the bureau?
sheriff burke		They believe he's out of state by now. We'll keep roadblocks and curfew in effect through the night. If he's not picked up by morning--we'll do a house to house.
dewey		You think he could still be in town?
sheriff burke		He'd have to be crazy. Where's Sidney?
dewey		She's with my sister. Should I bring her in?
sheriff burke		Hold off for now. Just stay close to her.
dewey		She'll be with her friends over at Stu Maker's tonight.
sheriff burke		Watch her. Don't let on--just keep your eyes out.
dewey		Yes, sir.
sidney		Billy's right. Whenever he touches me, I just can't relax.
tatum		You have a few intimacy issues as a result of your mother's untimely death. It's no big deal. You'll thaw out.
sidney		But he's been so patient with me, Tatum. You know, with all the sex stuff. How many guys would put up with a girlfriend who's sexually anorexic?
tatum		Billy and his penis don't deserve you.
sidney		What do you think about when you're having sex?
tatum		With Stu, there's little time to stop and reflect. But sometimes before, to relax and get in the mood, I think about Grant Goodeve.
sidney		Who?
tatum		Grant Goodeve--the oldest brother on EIGHT IS ENOUGH. Remember that show? He was the one who lived off alone. He would come around every now and then with his guitar and sing "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..." He had all these brain dead sisters and that idiot brother from CHARLES IN CHARGE. God, I was in love with Grant, he was so hot. The show came on every day after school right during my puberty years. Grant Goodeve was very instrumental in my maturing as a woman.
sidney		How does that get you in the mood with Stu?
tatum		During foreplay, I sing the theme song to myself. "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..." It's a real turn on.
sidney		No way.
tatum		Grant wrote the song himself. I'm convinced the lyrics had a secret meaning, "Eight is enough..."
sidney		What secret meaning? Like a Satanical thing?
tatum		Watch the show, Sid. His basket is bigger than the one you're pushing.
sidney		TATUM!
tatum		Oh, Sidney. WHAT? A guy can talk tits til he's dead but the minute you mention an eight inch weenie. Watch out.
tatum		There's that sense of humor. I knew it still existed. Ohh, Sid, let's have some fun tonight.
sidney		Deal.
dewey		You girls ready.
sidney		Yeah.
dewey		Looks like I'm your personal bodyguard tonight, Sid.
tatum		No, Dewey. You'll ruin the whole night.
dewey		Sorry, police orders. I'll stay out of the way, I promise.
tatum		Shit.
tatum		Caterer's here.
tatum		That's mature.
stu		Where you guys been? We had to start without you.
kenny		What's the plan?
gale		Prep the compact, we'll hide it in a window and tape all of tonight's festivities.
kenny		The control board's glitched. You know we can't carry a live picture.
gale		What's the delay?
kenny		About thirty seconds.
gale		As long as it records I don't give a shit. We're not doing a remote.
dewey		Evening, ma'am.
gale		Deputy...good evening.
dewey		What brings you out to these parts?
gale		You never know when or where a story will break.
dewey		Not much story here. Just a bunch of kids cutting loose.
gale		Then what are you doing here?
dewey		Keeping an eye on things. Checking the place out.
gale		Mind if I join you?
dewey		Not at all.
randy		I thought we'd make it a BLOCKBUSTER night.
stu		I thought everything was checked out.
randy		I had 'em hid in the foreign section.
sidney		THE FOG, TERROR TRAIN, PROM NIGHT --How come Jamie Lee Curtis is in all these movies?
randy		She's the Scream Queen.
stu		With that set of lungs--she should be.
tatum		 Tits--see.
randy		How many EVIL DEAD'S?  How many HELLRAISER'S?
stu		I got it. Tatum get me a beer. They're in the fridge in the garage.
tatum		What am I? The beer wench?
stu		 Hey, guess who's here? It's that chick from INSIDE STORY?
tatum		Shit, Dewey!
tatum		What is she doing here?
dewey		She's with me. I just wanted to check on things.
tatum		So you did--now leave...and take your media muff with you.
some teen		I watch your show regularly.
stu		This must be big news to be on INSIDE STORY.
gale		Huge.
another teen		Wanna interview us?
randy		We could be like two grief stricken students and we'll say really nice things about our good friends who were slaughtered senselessly.
stu		I can cry on cue.
gale		Maybe later?
gale		Can I trouble you for some water?
stu		How 'bout a beer? Randy--get the lady a beer.
randy		You get it.
sidney		Have they found my father?
dewey		Afraid not.
sidney		Should I be worried?
dewey		Not yet.
tatum		SHIT!
tatum		Hey, Shitheads!
tatum		OH, SHIT PISS!
tatum		What the...
tatum		Is that you, Randy? Cute.
tatum		And what movie is this from? I SPIT ON YOUR GARAGE.
tatum		Lose the mask. If Sidney sees it, she'll flip.
tatum		Oh, you wanna play psycho killer?
tatum		Can I be the helpless victim?
tatum		Okay, let's see. "No, please don't kill me, Mr. Ghostface. I want to be in the sequel."
tatum		Cut, Casper. That's a wrap.
tatum		Randy--will you stop?
tatum		You little shit.
tatum		Who are you?
tatum		NOOOOOOOO.....
sidney		Billy? Jesus, you scared me.
stu		 Dude. What are you doing here?
billy		I was hoping Sid and I could talk.
sidney		If Tatum sees you--she'll draw blood.
stu		You guys can go up to my parents room? To talk and...whatever.
billy		Subtlety, Stu. Look it up.
sidney		It's okay. We need to talk.
randy		What's Leatherface doing here?
stu		He came to make up.
randy		There goes my chance with Sid.
stu		Like you had one.
kenny		Got a picture. Perfect placement. We can see everything.
gale		Tell me, Kenny, has a cheesy tabloid journalist ever won the Pulitzer?
sidney		So...
billy		So...I'm sorry. I've been a selfish shit and I'm sorry.
sidney		No, Billy. I'm the one who's been selfish and self-absorbed with all of my post traumatic stress.
billy		You lost your mom...
sidney		But you're right--enough is enough. I can't wallow in the grief process forever and I can't keep lying to myself about who my mom was.
sidney		I think in some weird analytical, psychological bullshit way I'm scared I'm gonna turn out just like her, you know? Like the bad seed or something...
billy		Oh Sidney...
sidney		Everytime I get close to you I see my mom. I know it doesn't make sense.
billy		Sure it does. It's like Jodie Foster in SILENCE OF THE LAMBS when she kept having flashbacks of her dead father.
sidney		But this is life. This isn't a movie.
billy		Sure it is, Sid. It's all a movie. Life's one great big movie. Only you can't pick your genre.
sidney		I wanna let go. I do...
billy		Ssshh...everything's gonna be okay. I promise.
sidney		Why can't I be a Meg Ryan movie?
billy		Sshh..it's okay.
sidney		Or even a good porno.
billy		 What?
sidney		You heard me.
billy		 Are you serious?
sidney		 Yeah...I think so.
randy		Here comes another...
bored teen		How can you watch this shit over and over?
randy		Shhhhh.
stu		I wanna see Jamie Lee's breasts. When do we see Jamie Lee's breasts?
randy		Not until TRADING PLACES in '83. Jamie Lee was always the virgin in horror movies. She didn't show her tits until she went legit.
boy teen		No way.
randy		That's why she always lived. Only virgins can outsmart the killer in the big chase scene in the end. Don't you know the rules?
stu		What rules?
randy		There are certain rules that one must abide by in order to successfully survive a horror movie. For instance: 1. You can never have sex. The minute you get a little nookie--you're as good as gone. Sex always equals death. 2. Never drink or do drugs. The sin factor. It's an extension of number one. And 3. Never, ever, ever, under any circumstances, say "I'll be right back."
stu		Wanna another beer?
randy		Yeah.
stu		I'll be right back.
randy		There he goes folks--a dead man. Wave bye-bye.
dewey		Sheriff just radioed me. I'm gonna check out a possible lead. Thought you might like to join me.
gale		What kind of lead?
dewey		A car was spotted in the bushes a little ways up the road.
gale		I'd love to. If you're sure it's alright?
dewey		Ma'am, I am the Deputy of this town.
gale		Can I bring Kenny?
dewey		 NO! I mean...I should probably take just you.
gale		I'll be back.
dewey		Actually, I thought we could walk. It's not far.
randy		 Look, here comes the obligatory tit shot.
other guys		Beautiful! Finally!
sidney		 "Eight is enough to fill our lives with love..."
randy		Hello? Yeah....HOLY SHIT.
randy		Listen up. They found Principal Himbry dead. He was gutted and hung from the goal post on the football field.
randy		We were just getting to the good part.
sidney		Who did you call?
billy		What?
sidney		When you're arrested-you're allowed one phone call? Who did you call?
billy		I called my dad.
sidney		No, Sheriff Burke called your dad. I saw him.
billy		Yeah...and when I called no one answered.
sidney		Uh-huh.
billy		You don't still think it was me?
sidney		No, but if it were you, that would have been a very clever way to throw me off track. Using your one phone call to call me so I wouldn't think it was you.
billy		What do I have to do to prove to you I'm not a killer?
sidney		BILLYWATCHOUT!!!!
gale		So is Dewey your real name?
dewey		Dwight. Dewey was something I got stuck with a long time ago.
gale		I like it. It's... sexy.
dewey		Nah... it's just this town's way of not taking me serious.
gale		What about Gale Weathers? I sound like a meteorologist...
gale		People treat me like the Antichrist of television journalism.
dewey		I don't think you're so bad.
gale		Are all the local boys as sweet as you?
dewey		You okay?
gale		What's that?
dewey		Looks like a car.
dewey		Shit. It's Neil Prescott's car.
gale		Sidney's father?
dewey		We gotta get back. Jesus. He's here. What the fuck is he doing here?
randy		 No, Jamie. Look behind you! Watch out! Behind you!
kenny		JESUS...FUCK...
kenny		 BEHIND YOU! LOOK BEHIND YOU!
dewey		I'll call for backup.
gale		I'll get my camera.
gale		Kenny! Camera! Quick!
gale		Kenny?
gale		 Dewey?
gale		Dewey? Where are you?
randy		What's going on?
sidney		DEWEY!
sidney		NOOOOOOOO!!!!!
sidney		Help! Please! I'm at Stu Maker's house on Turner Lane. Please, HE'S GONNA KILL ME!
voice		 Sidney!
randy		Jesus, Sid. We gotta get out of here.
sidney		Stop. Right there.
randy		Don't shoot. It's me.
sidney		Don't come any closer.
randy		Listen to me, Sid. I found Tatum. She's dead, she's been killed...I think Stu did it.
voice		 Don't believe him, Sid.
stu		He's lying. He killed Tatum. And Billy.
sidney		Stay away.
stu		His movie nut mind has snapped, Sid. He's gone psycho.
randy		Don't listen to him. It's him. He's the one.
stu		Come on, Sid. Give me the gun.
randy		No, Sid.
sidney		Fuck you both.
randy		NO, SID. OPEN UP. PLEASE... HE'S GONE CRAZY.
sidney		Please! God! Help me!
voice		 Having fun Sidney?
sidney		NOOOOOOOOO!!!
sidney		 GOAWAYLEAVEMEALONE!
sidney		Oh God. Billy!
sidney		I thought you were...
billy		I'm alright. Gotta...get...help.
sidney		He's out there.
randy		 Please, you gotta let me in. He's gonna kill me.
sidney		NO! Don't believe him.
billy		It's okay. Give me the gun.
randy		Help me...
billy		 Shhhh. It's okay.
randy		Stu's flipped out. He's gone mad.
billy		"We all go a little mad sometimes."
billy		Anthony Perkins--PSYCHO
billy		Corn syrup. Same stuff they used for pig's blood in CARRIE.
sidney		Stu...please...help me...
stu		 Surprise, Sidney.
billy		Where ya going? It's not over yet. We've got one more surprise--Stu, I believe it's your turn.
stu		Oh yeah
billy		 What's wrong? You look like you've seen a ghost.
sidney		Daddy!
billy		Close enough.
stu		Guess, I won't be needing this anymore.
sidney		Why are you doing this?
stu		It's all part of the game.
billy		It's called GUESS HOW I'M GOING TO DIE!
sidney		Fuck you.
billy		We already played that game. You lost, remember?
stu		You have to play, Sid. Don't want to disappoint your dad. He's been waiting around all night.
billy		It's an easy game. We ask you a question. If you get it wrong--you die.
stu		And if you get it right--you die.
sidney		You're crazy--both of you.
stu		The official term is "psychotic".
sidney		You'll never get away with this.
billy		Tell that to Cotton Weary. You wouldn't believe how easy it was to frame him.
stu		Yeah, we just watched a few movies. Took a few notes. It was fun.
sidney		Why did you kill my mother?
billy		Why? WHY? Did you hear that, Stu? I think she wants a motive. Hmmm...I don't really believe in motives, Sid. I mean, did Norman Bates have a motive?
stu		Nope.
billy		And did they really ever explain why Hannibal Lecter liked to eat people? Don't think so. You see, it's scarier when there's no motive, Sid.
sidney		 I don't understand...
billy		We did your mom a favor, Sid. The woman was a slut bag whore who flashed her shit all over town like she was Sharon Stone or something.
stu		 ..so we put her out of her misery. I mean, let's face it, your mom was no Sharon Stone.
billy		Is that motive enough for you? Or how about this? Did you know your slut mother was sleeping with my dad and she's the reason my mom moved out and deserted me.
sidney		What?
billy		Think about it. On the off chance I get caught-a motive like that could divide a jury for years, don't you think?. You took my mother, so I took yours. Big sympathy factor. Maternal abandonment causes serious deviant behavior. It certainly fucked you up. It made you have sex with a psychopath.
stu		That's right and now that you're no longer a virgin. You gotta die--those are the rules.
billy		Pretend this is all just a scary movie, Sid. How do you think it's going to end?
stu		 This is the best part, Sid. Billy's got it all figured out. Why do you think we kept your father alive so long? Why did we save you for last?
billy		You know what time it is, Sid? It's after midnight. It's your mother's anniversary. We killed her exactly one year ago today.
billy		Ready?
stu		Yeah...
stu		Jesus...
stu		Good one. My turn.
billy		Don't forget-stay to the side and don't go too deep.
billy		Jesus...fuck, that hurt.
sidney		Stop it!
billy		 Got the ending figured out yet? Time's running out.
stu		Come on, Sid. Think about it. Your father is the chief suspect. We cloned his cellular. The evidence is there.
billy		What if your father snapped? Your mom's anniversary set him off and he went on a murder spree, killing everyone...
stu		 Except for me and Billy...we were left for dead...
billy		And then he killed you and then shoots himself in the head. It's a perfect ending.
stu		Everyone dies but us. We get to carry on and plan the sequel. Let's face it, these days--you gotta have a sequel.
sidney		You sick fucks--you've seen one too many movies.
billy		Oh Sid, don't blame the movies...Movies don't create psychos. Movies just make psychos more creative.
stu		That's it, Billy. I can't take any more. I'm feeling woozy.
billy		Get the gun. I'll untie Pops.
stu		Where'd you put it?
billy		It's on the table.
stu		No, it's not.
billy		Where the fuck is it?
voice		 Right here, asshole.
billy		I thought she was dead.
stu		She looked dead. Still does.
gale		I've got an ending for you. The reporter left for dead in the newsvan comes to, stumbles upon you two dipshits, finds the gun, fumbles your plan, and saves the day.
sidney		I like that ending.
billy		She can't get both of us.
stu		Odds are--she'll miss anyway.
stu		Cool move.
billy		Where'd she go?
stu		I don't know Billy but I'm hurtin'.
billy		Where the fuck did she go?
billy		 Hello?
sidney		 Are you alone in the house?
billy		You bitch--where the fuck are you?
sidney		Not so fast.  We're gonna play a little game. It's called GUESS WHO JUST CALLED THE POLICE AND REPORTED YOUR SORRY MOTHERFUCKING ASS?
billy		Find her.
billy		FIND HER YOU DIPSHIT!
stu		I can't...I'm bad off, Billy. You cut to deep.
sidney		 So Stu, what's your motive? Billy's got one. The police are on their way. What are you going to tell them?
stu		Peer pressure...I'm way to sensitive.
billy		 I'm gonna rip you up bitch. Just like your slut whore mother.
sidney		Gotta find me first, you pansy-assed Mama's boy.
randy		You know what I hate most about horror movies? The final scene...it just goes on and on...and it gets so stupid...
randy		Sid, you found me out...I'm a virgin. And pretty happy about it right now.
randy		Careful. This is the moment when you think the killer's dead, but then he springs back to life for one last scare.
sidney		Not this time.
sidney		This is for my Mom, asshole.
sidney		And this Billy stud-bucket is for having an incredibly small weenie.
sidney		Oh Daddy...
gale		I wanna close-up.
randy		This is probably an inappropriate moment, but you think you'd want to maybe go out with me sometime... like on a date?
randy		Maybe catch a movie?
sidney		Only if it's a nice Meg Ryan movie.
randy		You got it.
****Dialogues from script :Scream_2.txt****

maureen		I hate scary movies.
phil		It'll be okay, baby, I'll hold your hand.
maureen		If we hurry, we can still catch the Sandra Bullock movie.
phil		We got free tickets.
maureen		What's that?
usher		The studio sent them.
maureen		I don't think so.
maureen		Take it off.
phil		But...
maureen		Now.
maureen		Now why does she have to be naked? How does that serve the plot?
phil		Sssshhh.
girl		Hello?
voice		Hello?
girl		Who is this?
voice		You tell me.
maureen		I hate this shit.
on screen		The phone rings again.
voice		Why did you hang up on me?
girl		Who is this?
maureen		Why doesn't she just hang up and call the police? Stupid..
phil		Shush.
maureen		I'm gonna pee. You want anything?
maureen		You ass.
phil		I'm sorry, I'm sorry but I had to. It was too easy.
maureen		You are so not funny.
phil		Come on, baby. Lighten up a little, will ya?
maureen		I get scared really easy, okay.
phil		You gotta go with it. Scary movies are great foreplay.
maureen		I just have a hard time with insipid, sexist violence.
phil		 We can still Sandra Bullock it.
maureen		 Sandra started without us. We can stay. He kisses her again, then breaks away.
maureen		Want some popcorn?
phil		Butter.
maureen		Give it up.
maureen		How many stabs did I miss?
maureen		Why doesn't she run?
maureen		This is so tired.
maureen		Hey, you... pasty face...
maureen		Whatsa the matter? Can't I get your ghost?
smash cut		TO BLACK
sidney		I got it.
hallie		Knock yourself out.
sidney		Hello?  Hello?
voice		Hello Sidney.
sidney		Yes?
voice		What's your favorite scary movie?
sidney		Who is this?
voice		You tell me.
hallie		Time to change numbers again?
sidney		Nah... I think it'll die off. It's opening weekend. Let's see how it goes.
reporter		 "... The two victims, Maureen Evans and Phil Stevens..."
young man		 Please, I just wanna be left alone.
hallie		He sure gives a lot of interviews for someone who wants to be left alone.
hallie		Get your ass in gear. You're late. Don't forget we've got rush at the Deltas tonight. Don't wear anything you don't want trashed. Sid? Sid?
sidney		I can't believe I let you talk me into going Greek.
sidney		Pumps. Nice handbag. Whaddya think?
sidney		What murders?
flashy reporter		Did you kill them last night, Sid? Has it gotten to you? Have you finally snapped?
gale		 Quick, get outta here.
sidney		What's going on?
gale		Just go. l'll find you later.
man's voice		 Hop on, Sid.
sidney		What's going on, Dewey?
dewey		It'll be alright.
sidney		Three hundred people watched? Nobody did anything?
dewey		They thought it was a publicity stunt.
sidney		Oh my God. How could it happen?
dewey		They don't know. It was carefully planned. Earlier in the day the victims received anonymous passes to the movie.
sidney		It's a copycat killer I knew this would happen. That fucking movie.
dewey		As of now, they don't see any relation. But they're checking it out. The state, Special Task Force, FBI - they're all here. They'll find the guy.
sidney		Yeah, right.
dewey		Look, Sid, why don't you take off? Disappear for a few days. I'll come with you.
sidney		No. I will not crawl under a rock. This is a fucked-up world and people kill people all the time. I'll just get used to it.
dewey		Nothing will happen to you. I promise.
dewey		That's why I'm here, right? We take care of each other. C'mon, I'll walk you to class.
sidney		You go, it's all stairs, I can take it from here.
dewey		Don't worry...
sidney		Dewey, I'm completely equipped with mace, alarm whistle, keyring, knife, a degree in defensive combat...
dewey		Just in case...
sidney		No. This is nothing, Dewey. I'll be okay. Go back to work and let me get back to my quasi pseudo-happy existence.
gale		I don't know... no one's talking. What's the studio's position? Never happen. They'd be stupid to pull the movie. With all this free press - they're gonna have huge numbers this weekend. It'll break box office records. Of course I have bumps.
randy		HE KNOWS YOU'RE ALONE. MGN/UA.
randy		I'm there, man. No worries. I got ya covered. I'm so there. That's why I'm here - because I'm there.
snotty guy		Sequels are too handicapped. By definition alone, they're inferior films.
mickey		Bullshit generalization. Many sequels have surpassed their original.
snotty guy		Name one.
mickey		ALIENS Far better than the original.
another guy		Subjective.
some girl		Life's subjective. I much prefer Ridley Scott.
hallie		No way. ALIENS rocked. "Stay away from her - you bitch."
snotty guy		I'll give you that one. Name another.
some girl		You've got a hard-on for Cameron.
snotty guy		A bigger budget does not make a better movie. TERMINATOR one is historical.
artsy teacher		How about THE GODFATHER PART II?
snotty guy		The almighty exception. Name another.
derek		EMPIRE STRIKES BACK. Smarter story. Improved effects.
hallie		I liked JEDI. With the furry things.
mickey		Lucas and his Romper Room stage.
hallie		I got. I got it. FRIDAY THE 13TH,
snotty guy		Case in point. The entire horror genre was destroyed by sequels.
artsy teacher		Really? And why do you think that is?
snotty guy		Sequels suck. Hello. It becomes about: money and no one's interested in quality.
derek		It's more than that. Horror films are only as good as their villains. How can Freddie and Jason possibly be scary after they've been diluted through five or six sequels.
teacher		What's the solution? If you were making a sequel today what would you do differently?
snotty guy		The point is - I made my point. Sequels suck.
derek		How are you? You weren't in class. I called as soon as I heard...
sidney		I skipped. Too many "That's her" looks.
derek		I'm sorry, baby. What can I do'?
sidney		Don't ask what you can do. No coddling. Life rolls on status quo.
derek		I can do that. And I can also do this.
sidney		No PDA.
dean fisher		 "... and we feel this unfortunate isolated tragedy in no way reflects upon our fine school and we should trust that the authorities and FBI are acting quickly to bring us answers..."
gale		Look, I'm sorry about the face.
debbie salt		Job hazard. Debbie Salt, stringer - NEWSWEEK. Answer a few questions?
gale		Fair enough.
debbie salt		What are you doing here? I thought you had retired from field reporting?
gale		Well, you know I'm dear to the subject matter.
debbie salt		And much richer as a result.
gale		Do I know you? You look familiar.
debbie salt		I took your vulture seminar seminar at Berkeley last year.
gale		Good for you.
gale		 Guys, you're missing the show.
sheriff		No, we have no evidence of a serial killer. We think the killer acted deliberately and not at random...
derek		But what are they doing? He's talking but he's not saying anything.
joel		Sounds like they don't know anything.
hallie		Do you think they'll cancel Hell Week?
mickey		You're getting nailed - you're not getting out of it.
joel		Have they questioned you yet, Sid?
sidney		This has nothing to do with me, Joel. There's an estimated 270 serial killers currently active in the US at any given time. I can't control that. Who's hungry?
hallie		I have rehearsal.
mickey		I have to watch rehearsal.
joel		I gotta hit the library. Anatomy. Some of us have real majors. You gonna be okay, Sid?
sidney		You're not allowed to ask that.
joel		I'll stop by the Deltas tonight.
sidney		Thanks, Joel.
lois		Hello, pledges. Enjoying yourselves?
hallie		Yes, sister Lois. Very much so. Thank you for asking.
murphy		Good. We need your help, pledges. Are you familiar with the Deltas TP fundraiser?
murphy		... this week's TKE kegger...
lois		Ne ask that you sell individual squares of toilet paper for a mere nickel a piece.
murphy		We've set you each at a five dollar quota.
mickey		Come on, guys. Uncool.
murphy		Am I getting fraternity interference, Mickey?
sidney		It's okay. I can peddle toilet paper.
derek		Sid, you don't have to.
sidney		No special treatment. I can do this. C'mon Hallie.
derek		How do you put up with this Greek shit?
mickey		Hey, it's cool. Hallie's into it, I'm into Hallie...
gale		Hello, Dwight.
dewey		Miss Weathers.
gale		I've been trying to reach you but you haven't returned...
dewey		I'm on crowd patrol, Miss Weathers, excuse me.
gale		The name's Gale, remember'?
dewey		Yes, Miss Weathers, your name is embedded clearly between my ears.
gale		I see you read the book.
dewey		Yes, I do retain reading skills. Shock.
gale		And an explanation is, of course, out of the question.
dewey		Page 32. "Deputy Dewey filled the room with his dim-witted Barney Fifish presence." I think you've explained yourself.
gale		Oh Dewey, I'm sorry.
dewey		No, what you are is a money hungry, fame- seeking liar and - forgive me for saying - mediocre writer who has a cold storage shed where her heart should be.
gale		You have every right to be upset.
dewey		Page 41. "Deputy Dewey oozed with inexperience."
gale		I never meant to imply...
dewey		How do you know my dim-witted inexperience isn't merely a subtle form of manipulation used to lower people's expectations thereby enhancing my ability to effectively maneuver within any given situation?
gale		I'm sorry. I don't know what else to say except I'm sorry.
dewey		No, I'm the one who's sorry. I misjudged you. Now if you'll excuse me, I have some oozing to do.
sheriff		No, there has been no evidence that more than one killer is responsible...
sidney		Hello, Gale.
gale		Sidney. Hello. How are you?
sidney		I'm okay. PEOPLE magazine won't stop calling but other than that...
gale		I'm sorry.
sidney		Yeah, well... you are the definition of mixed emotions. I really should hate you... I see your movie's getting good reviews.
gale		It seems to be causing a stir. What's with the toilet paper?
sidney		It's hell week. I'm pledging the Deltas.
gale		It's good to see you involved.
sidney		My morn was a Delta.
cotton		Hello, Sidney.
sidney		What are you doing?
cotton		This was a mistake. I shouldn't be here.
randy		Can you say backfire?
gale		Did you get it?
randy		Yeah, I got it.
gale		You need to check your conscience at the door. We're not here to be loved.
sheriff		No, we don't anticipate another murder but we are taking every precaution possible...
cici		 No, they broke up again. Bailey won't stop drinking and Sarah can't take it anymore.
cici		No, he quit - the whole God thing - he has issues. The previews for next week...
man's voice		Hello.
cici		Yes.
man's voice		Who is this?
cici		Cici. Who's this?
man's voice		Someone who wants to talk to you.
cici		Ted? Where are you? Are you drinking? Hold on.
cici		I won't.
cici		Alright, alright... I'll call you back.
man's voice		Who's Ted?
cici		Oh, I'm sorry. My bad. I thought you were someone else.
man's voice		That's okay.
cici		Who do you want to speak with? Nobody's here.
man's voice		Where is everybody?
cici		We're co-sponsoring the Acid Rain mixer at the Sig Ep. house tonight.
man's voice		Why aren't you there?
cici		I'm designated driver. I have to be here in case a sister calls and needs a ride.
man's voice		That's too bad.
cici		"Drink with your brain." That's our motto. Who are you calling for?
man's voice		What if I said you?
cici		What if I said goodbye?
man's voice		Why would you wanna do that?
cici		Why do you always answer a question with a question?
man's voice		I'm inquisitive.
cici		I'm impatient. Look, do you wanna leave a message for someone?
man's voice		Do you wanna die tonight, Cici ?
cici		Just a second.  Yes?
cici		No, some creep asshole trying to scare me.
cici		Shit.
cici		I heard a noise.
cici		Shit. Cici moves to the staircase. She peers up it.
cici		Stop it...
cici		 I don't think I'm alone.
cici		I'm outta here.
cici		Outside.
cici		 Hey, you? HELLO? HELL0?
cici		What? I can't hear you...
cici		I'm losing you.
cici		Okay, okay. I'll call now. I'll call you back.
voice		 Campus Security.
cici		Hello, I'm calling from the Chi Omega...
voice		 I'm sorry. I can't hear you. Hello?
voice		We... bad..connec... call back.
cici		Shit.
voice		Hello?
cici		I'm calling...
voice		I can't hear you.
cici		I'm calling from the Chi Omega house. Someone is harassing me. Hello?
girl's voice		Did the phone ring?
cici		Jesus, you scared me. What are you doing here?
dawnie		I live here.
cici		I thought you were going to the mixer?
dawnie		I had to change. Did anyone call?
cici		Just some asshole trying to scare me.
dawnie		Are you okay?
cici		Hello?
drunk girl		 We need a ride. Taxi! Taxi!
cici		Where are you?
drunk girl		 We're at Grogs and need a ride to Acid Rain.
dawnie		Who is it? Is it Tina?
cici		They're at Grogs.
dawnie		Tina, it's Dawnie. I'm on my way. Cici follows her back into the living room.
cici		I'll go. I don't mind. Really.
dawnie		Take the next one. You should set the alarm. There's a killer on the loose.
man's voice		Is Cici there?
dawnie		Who's calling?
man's voice		Ted?
cici		Hello? Ted?
man's voice		No, it's me.
cici		WHAAAATT?
man's voice		Don't forget to set the alarm.
cici		Hello?
hallie		You bitch.
sidney		Where have you been'? You missed my shining moment. I won the macaroni sundae binge.
derek		I'm sorry honey. I got behind.
mickey		I don't want you to choke or anything but you're trailing. You need to pick the pace up.
sidney		 Any news?
derek		About what?
sidney		The forbidden subject.
frat boy		Yo, guys, outside. Something's up at the Chi Omega. Police are everywhere.
sheriff		Lots of blood. But no body.
captain tyler		Have you checked the...
sheriff		Attic, garage, basement, nothing.
captain tyler		Take the neighborhood.
sheriff		Alright men, listen up...
sidney		It's starting all over again.
derek		Lemme take you home.
sidney		I'll get my jacket.
sidney		Hello?
man's voice		Hello Sidney?
sidney		Who are you?
man's voice		Soon, Sidney, soon.
sidney		What do you want?
man's voice		To see every ounce of blood drain from your body.
sidney		Then come and get me.
man's voice		My pleasure.
derek		Sid? Sid?
sidney		Derek. He's in the house. Help... me...
dewey		It's okay. It's okay. It's just me.
captain tyler		We don't know if it's random. We haven't been able to connect the victims.
sheriff		The first two were stabbed without thought. The sorority girl was gutted with autopsy precision.
dean fisher		Christ! Just do something. I will not have a repeat of Gainesville. Not on my campus. .
dewey		Sidney Prescott, sir.
captain tyler		We know that, son.
dewey		The killer was trying to get to her. That sorority girl was a distraction.
captain tyler		We're aware of that.
dewey		The killer is obviously repeating Woodsboro. I can fill you in on what I know.
captain tyler		Look, son. I know you've lived through this, but we got it under control. Why don't you have some coffee?
sheriff		Thank you, Miss Weathers for coming in.
gale		Of course, what can I do?
captain tyler		We were hoping you could help with the killer's profile.
gale		Maureen Evans - Maureen Prescott. Sidney Prescott's mother. The first victim in the Woodsboro Murders. Phil Stevens - Stephen Orth - the first kid to be murdered. Ten to one - Cici is not the third victim's real name.
sheriff		It's Cassandra.
gale		Nickname Cassie or - Casey. The third victim in Woodsboro. She was hung from a tree and gutted.
captain tyler		Jesus...
gale		This is a complete copycat. Your killer is even going in sequence.
captain tyler		Who was the next victim in Woodsboro?
gale		In the book or in the movie?
dean fisher		Let's try reality.
gale		Mr. Himbry - the principal was the next victim. However, in the movie version, Tatum Riley was killed next. Dramatic license.
sheriff		Jesus Christ. Captain Tyler flies out of his seat and into action.
captain tyler		 Find me every variation of Himbry and what was the other name...
dewey		Tatum Riley.
captain tyler		Both on campus and the surrounding community. I want names ASAP.
dean fisher		I'll get you full access.
gale		What about Sidney? Is she safe?
captain tyler		She's completely insulated. I've got my top men on her.
joel		How many guys they have on you?
mickey		I counted four.
hallie		Okay, you're sure about skipping Calculas?
sidney		Please, I have the perfect excuse.
hallie		What about rehearsal?
sidney		Gotta.
hallie		I'll cover you through rehearsal. Derek when do you get outta docu- drama?
derek		Two.
derek		And watch her til 8:00 - I've got to edit.
joel		Perfect. I'll be outta Micro-bio and we can grab a bite.
sidney		Guys, guys, I'm sorry but, no way.
hallie		Shut up. Mickey, you and I can take her late evening.
mickey		Sig Ep's gotta band, tonight.
hallie		Too bad.
sidney		This is exactly what I don't want.
derek		I think it's out of your control.
joel		Sid, I'll seeya tonight.
sidney		But...
sidney		My screwed up life shouldn't have to bleed onto my friends.
derek		Let us decide that.
sidney		What about your film? Isn't it due next week? Have you even started it?
derek		It's under control.
debbie salt		Hi, Gale, any leads?
gale		Tons and tons.
debbie salt		Where is Sidney's father?
gale		Home - where he lives.
debbie salt		And are the police sure about that?
gale		Why don't you ask them?
debbie salt		Already did. He's the perfect suspect, don't you think?
gale		No, I don't.
debbie salt		Parents are always responsible. It all starts in the home.
gale		Look, I know you kinda hold me up as your career template and it gives you some anal charge to challenge me but you win. Okay? I'm not interested in the scoop anymore. Excuse me.
man's voice		Hello, Gale.
gale		Who is this?
man's voice		I'll give you one guess.
gale		Who are you?
man's voice		That's not the way we play the game.
gale		I don't play games.
man's voice		What if your life depended on it?
gale		What do you want?
man's voice		You're pretty when you're angry.
gale		Where are you?
man's voice		I'm everywhere.
gale		Oh - a God complex
man's voice		Stay away from the cop.
gale		What do you want from me?
man's voice		It's what you want from me.
gale		What do you mean?
man's voice		You are writing another book, aren't you? That's why you're here. The story's not over.
gale		You're getting obvious.
man's voice		No, Gale, I'm just getting started. Seeya soon.
gale		No, wait...
man's voice		Watch your back.
sidney		 "Pain, yah, such pain. Pain."
lois		That's not the line. You jumped.
sidney		Shit. Did I?
lois		About a page.
director		 CUT! Let's take five.
hallie		That was good.
sidney		Yeah, right.
director		Sid, why don't you get outta here? We'll pick this up tomorrow.
voice		Sid?
hallie		Who is that guy?
sidney		It's okay. Look, Hallie, I'll meet you outside.
hallie		No, girletta, I don't leave your side.
sidney		I've got my entourage. Take a break. Please.
sidney		What do you want?
randy		I'm sorry, Sid, please. I never should have gone along with Gale. I know I'm stupid. I wish I had some good reason to give you but I'm just stupid. Please, Sid, don't be mad at me.
sidney		Do you work for her now?
randy		Well, yeah... she gave me a job. Freelance. It got me outta Woodsboro. I'm sorry about Cotton and yesterday. It was a bad idea. I knew it was a bad idea but it seemed like a quasi harmless bad idea. Ah, shit, Sid, I'm fucked up.
sidney		Me, too. Randy. Me too.
captain tyler		If he calls again - find help. Don't engage him in conversation. I'm gonna put a man on you - to cover you.
dewey		I can do it, Captain.
captain tyler		Thanks, Dewey, but I was thinking I'd pull Jesse off...
gale		I'd prefer Dewey, Captain.
dewey		How's the name search going?
captain tyler		37 usages of Himbry located in the registar's office. 9 Tatum's, 47 Riley's. And that's just on campus. It's hopeless.
tori		 Oh, God, Billy, you scared me. What are you doing here?
johnny		 They let me go, Sid, I didn't do it. I'm innocent.
randy		You okay, Sid?
sidney		Yeah.
johnny		When my mom left my dad, I accepted it. That's just the way the cookie crumbles. Moms leave.
tori		Yeah, but your mom left town. She's not dead. My mom's dead. Do you hear me? She's dead. Dead. And she's never coming back. Ever, Ever.
derek		My documentary is due on Tuesday.
mickey		What's your subject?
derek		I WAS A SORORITY SLUT.
joel		You should of done it on Sidney. That would have been a cool.
derek		She wouldn't let me.
mickey		Not with Primetime Live and 20/20 coming at her. I'd save my shit too.
derek		Where's Sid?
hallie		Damned if I know. She ditched me.
derek		You weren't supposed to leave her alone.
hallie		I didn't say she was alone. That guy - from her home town showed up. They went off together.
mickey		I've been waiting for you, baby.
joel		Is that cool? Just to leave her like that?
hallie		She's got guards with her.
derek		What guy?
hallie		Randy somebody.
joel		Randy Meeks. He was with Sid that night in Woodsboro.
mickey		Her old boyfriend?
joel		No, she killed her boyfriend. Randy was a friend.
mickey		Watch out, Derek.
hallie		He tried to kill her first.
mickey		Is Sid in therapy?
joel		She was for a while. Gave it up.
derek		How do you know so much about her?
joel		I read the book.
mickey		I could use some therapy.
derek		Should we be worried about this guy? Isn't it kinda weird he just showed up and now people are dying?
hallie		He seemed harmless.
derek		Aren't most serial killers seemingly harmless?
joel		And white.
mickey		Easy black boy.
joel		It's documented. Most serial killers are attractive - slightly off white males in their twenties.
hallie		That's you, honey.
mickey		I got a surprise for you.
hallie		What?
mickey		"If I should stay. I would only be in your way. So I'll go. And yet, I know, I'll think of you each step of the way...
hallie		Don't do this.
mickey		"And IIIIIIIIIYEIIIII will always love you OOOOOOWUOOOOOOOO will always love you."
joel		 Whitney?
derek		I think he's doing Dolly.
mickey		"And I hope life treats you kind and I hope you have all you dreamed of offffff. I wish you JOYYY."
derek		Definitely Whitney.
joel		Isn't that a big no-no?
derek		I think so.
hallie		You're going to get it. You know what happens.
mickey		But I love you. And I want the whole world to know it.
tori		Why did you kill my mother?
johnny		Because she was sleeping with my dad. She's the reason my mom left. She was a whore just like you.
tori		My mom was no whore. Don't you say that.
johhny		Whore! Whore! Whore! Whore!
sidekick		Just like in the movies.
voice		Hello Sidney.
sidney		Cotton.
cotton		Can we talk?
sidney		I don't think that's a good idea.
cotton		Look, yesterday wasn't my idea. That was all Gale and dollar signs and ratings.
sidney		What do you want from me, Cotton?
cotton		You could start with an apology.
sidney		I did that.
cotton		You wrote me a letter. Very cordial. Very appropriate.
sidney		How? What could I say that would make a difference? I took away a year of your life - how do I apologize for that?
cotton		I wish it was just a year. I lost everything because of you. I have nothing now. Look at me, this is what I've become.
sidney		Cotton, there isn't one day, one hour, one minute when I'm not reminded of what I've done. I have not had one second of reprieve and no therapy or religion or spiritual plane can ever erase what I feel in every vein of my being. And I wish I had in me what you need to hear but I don't think the words exist.
cotton		I just thought if I saw you face to face, maybe it would help.
sidney		Did it?
cotton		It helped me realize one thing.
sidney		What?
cotton		You're a self-obsessed little cunt like your mother.
randy		You okay?
sidney		I don't know. I don't think Cotton did it. It's too predictable.
randy		If he's innocent he'll have an alibi.
sidney		I guess Gale's going to be pissed she missed her exclusive.
randy		I'll relay it. You sure you don't wanna go home?
sidney		I have this button I press. See? It insulates me.
randy		I gotta coupla of those buttons myself.
sidney		Thanks for the movie, Randy.
randy		Anytime. Sorry it sucked. It just had that been there done that feeling.
derek		I had the four o'clock shift. You weren't there. You had us worried. Is everything okay?
sidney		No, it's not.
derek		I don't really know what happened in Woodsboro, Sid. But I know you don't trust me.
sidney		It's not you, Derek. I don't trust myself. I tend to make big selection errors when it comes to men.
derek		Then I'll make this easy for you. I like you. I'm crazy about you, Sid. But I'm gonna stay away. Until you say otherwise.
sidney		I'm sorry, Derek.
gale		 The interview's not going to happen. 1 changed my mind. I've harassed the girl enough. It's in poor taste and a bad idea.
gale		Gotta go, call me when you have something nice to say.
dewey		So what made you change your mind about Sidney?
gale		Mood swing. I'm manic depressive.
dewey		You're a hard one to figure out.
gale		It's that complex yet shallow quality. It's deliberate.
dewey		I think you're all an act.
gale		And deep down I'm a good person? Make no mistake, Dewey, I'm a shit.
dewey		I know that.
gale		Yeah?
dewey		I also know that you're an aging TV reporter slash writer who, despite huge tabloid success, has some self worth issues regarding your personal life which directly effects your professional life in a non-positive manner. A coupla failed relationships with - I'm guessing balding, older men - have turned you into this bitch with a cell phone. But I bet sometimes, late at night, when you're all alone a sadness seeps to the surface and in a moment of clarity you know that all you really want is to be touched and held and fondled.
gale		And where did you gain all of your Gale Weather's insight?
dewey		After my spinal cord was damaged I was laid up for over a year. A lot can happen when you're on your back.
randy		What'd I miss?
gale		I'm not here.
randy		Hello?
man's voice		Gale?
randy		She's not here right now.
man's voice		But she's standing right next to you.
gale		C'mon.  Keep him talking.
randy		So... what's your favorite scary movie? No response. Silence.
man's voice		They'll never find me.
randy		What do you care? Let 'em have their fun. So, what's up?
man's voice		What's your favorite scary movie?
randy		SHOWGIRLS. Absolutely frightening. What's yours? Wait, let me guess. THE HOUSE ON SORORITY ROW? FINAL EXAM. GRADUATION DAY? THE DORM THAT DRIPPED BLOOD? SPLATTER UNIVERSITY? Am I close?
man's voice		Closer than you think.
gale		He has to be nearby. He likes the game.
randy		So what's your deal? Can we talk openly for a second? How does one become a serial killer? Huh? Are you psychopathic or merely psychotic? And what is the distinguishing feature'? Were you slapped around as a child? Is it hereditary? Did your Mom take test drugs? You know, have you tried getting laid? It's done wonders for my homicidal tendencies.
man's voice		Do you want to die?
randy		Gee, let me think. "Do you want to... " Is that the best you can do? Some tired hand me down rehash? Hey, pal, no one's gonna write a book about you. No movie rights. Nothing. I've been through this before and much better I might add.
dewey		It's okay. C'mon, Gale.
randy		And if you're such a brilliant smart killer - why copycat? Why not be original? Where's the innovation? Let's pioneer some new ground. Make a statement. Go down in history. Now you'll always be the Woodsboro copycat killer. That's lame. It's like a bad sequel. And why Woodsboro? What about Manson, Bundy, Son of Sam? Why imitate two high school loser- ass dickheads - 1 knew the guys. Stu was a wussy ass wet rag and Billy - jesus - what a rat-looking homo-repressed, mama's boy.
gale		Randy? Randy? Where did he go?
sheriff		He's broken his pattern.
captain tyler		They've broken their pattern.
sheriff		You're sure about this two person thing?
captain tyler		Broad daylight, a crowded movie theatre. This is too much fun for one person.
sheriff		I would say we are now officially baffled.
captain tyler		On national television.
sidney		Excuse me? Did your computer just freeze?
sidney		I'm not signed on.
guy		Someone here in the room. All the terminals are connected.
sidney		He's here. He's in the room right now.
cotton		What better alibi could I have? I was here in custody.
captain tyler		Maybe you don't work alone.
cotton		Yeah, that's it.
sheriff		Why did you attack Sidney Prescott?
cotton		There was no attack, we were talking. Very heatedly. Miss Prescott and I have a very complicated past. That's no crime.
captain tyler		And the gun?
cotton		I have a permit. It's registered. I have a legal right to carry it.
sheriff		Why do you need a gun?
cotton		Gentlemen, your growing hysteria is not reason enough to hold me here. I've been down this road before. And unless you're going to charge me with a crime I'd like to walk outta here. I have an interview at
gale		Where's Sidney'?
dewey		She's safe.
gale		Not good. How you doin?
dewey		Not good.
dewey		Can't we hold him?
captain tyler		No, we got pressure from California State. The man practically has clemency. We can't run the risk of falsely accusing him. He has to be standing over the victim with knife in hand before we make a move.
dewey		What now?
gale		What's going on, Cotton?
cotton		You know the story, Gale. Man falsely accused, sent to prison, proved innocent, released back into the real world and never trusted again. Want the exclusive?
gale		Did you do it?
cotton		Now, Gale, you were so instrumental in my freedom. You're not having character doubts now, are you?
gale		You have a right to be angry.
cotton		No, Gale, I don't have any rights. You made sure of that.
gale		Cotton, I've done nothing but help you.
cotton		You've done nothing but get rich off of me. How many books have you sold, Gale? You think I don't understand points and royalties and ancilliary rights?
gale		Don't do anything stupid, Cotton. You've come to far.
cotton		Gale, I don't know what I'm doing from one moment to the next. I'm just taking it as it comes.
captain tyler		Night's coming. I think its time to beef up security on the Prescott girl.
gale		Where is she?
sheriff		She was just escorted to her dorm room.
dewey		Is she safe there?
captain tyler		We're going to bring her in. Hide her out for a coupla days. And we're issuing a campus lock-in this evening. No one is allowed out after dark.
dewey		That doesn't work, sir.
gale		You're just isolating people. You're giving the killer a blank canvas.
lois		It's all about sisterhood. Everybody thinks its about partying and blowjobs but...
murphy		... we only promote safe rubbered sex.
lois		... it's really about family and tradition...
murphy		... harmonica style is okay.
lois		I just love being a sister.
derek		Thanks, ladies.
mickey		Are they aware of your not so positive portrayal of Greek life?
derek		Not one bit.
mickey		Where's Sid?
derek		She dumped me.
mickey		No way.
derek		Yeah.
mickey		You freakin?
fraternity jock		He lavaliered. He's dead.
ebert		 I enjoyed its clever execution...
hallie		We're missing the Sig Ep party.
sidney		No, Hallie, not tonight. Parties and mass murderers don't go together. Trust me.
hallie		No, no, I hadn't planned on going, it's just Mickey will be pissed.
siskel		 It was just an excuse to kill young, big breasted girls. I didn't like it.
sidney		Someone else has been killed.
fraternity jock		Who do you love?
mickey		Hallie.
fraternity jock		Did you say "My TKE brothers"?
mickey		No, I said Hallie.
sidney		I'm fine. I wish people would stop treating me like glass. I'm not gonna break.
hallie		It's okay to break, girl. You shatter if you have to.
sidney		I'd really just like to be alone.
dewey		The police are waiting outside. They're going to take you somewhere safe.
sidney		Dewey, there's no such place.
dewey		Humor me, Sid.
hallie		Can I come with her?
sidney		No, Hallie, I'm not gonna take you down too. I'll be alright.
gale		Sid, I'll come with you.
sidney		But who would operate your camera?
joel		They got Mickey. He's being toasted at the Deltas.
hallie		I knew it. Shit! I gotta get over there.
joel		We're under quarantine.
hallie		I'm the only one who can cut him down.
sidney		It's not a good idea, Hallie.
joel		I'll go with her.
hallie		Be safe, girl.
dewey		Sid, you should get going.
joel		 Hallie forgot her footage at the film dept. I'm gonna walk her over before it's gets too late
dewey		You really...
hallie		I gotta have it, Dewey.
gale		Hey, Dewey?
hallie		Seeya, Dewey.
gale		If you were truly a copycat, wouldn't you want to emulate everything about the killer that you could?
dewey		Meaning?
gale		He's already gotta be a part of Sid's life. What do you know about this Derek?
dewey		Solid alibis. He was with Sidney when she was attacked.
gale		Billy had alibis too.
dewey		Hey, I got stuff to do. But I'll find you later, okay.
sidney		Whatever.
mickey		 Come on, Hallie, baby...
gale		 You broke the lock.
dewey		You broke my heart.
gale		What are we looking for?
dewey		A bloody knife. A ghost mask. Something like that?
gale		Can we turn the light on?
dewey		That's not the way it's done.
dewey		And it's sexier in the dark.
gale		Dewey, you and I would never make it.
dewey		Maybe not. But think about the sex. As frustrated as I am...
gale		... and as lonely as I am...
dewey		We'd break some furniture.
gale		Tell you what. We get through this one. And we'll take out a hotel room. Over here with the light.
dewey		They're roomates.
gale		And Joel's pre-med.
dewey		The sorority girl was gutted with autopsy precision.
gale		Shit! It's both of them. The first murders were to throw us - using the same names as Woodsboro. But they've moved on - they're getting closer to Sidney. They're not looking for a Himbry or a Tatum to kill. They're looking for the new Tatum.
dewey		Hallie?
sidney		Where are you taking me?
sidney		I feel like Eddie Murphy.
gale		Ssshh! What was that?
dewey		Let's find out.
gale		This is all too familiar.
dewey		Over here.
gale		Maybe they never got here. He could have taken her anywhere.
dewey		C'mon. Let's go.
gale		Jesus Christ!
dewey		He filmed his victims.
gale		Shit!
dewey		Dammit!
gale		Let's go.
dewey		No, wait here.
gale		No, Dewey, let's call for backup.
gale		Dewey?
dewey		There's nothing. I'm coming down.
dewey		Gale! Gale!
gale		 NOOOOOOO!
sidney		SOMEBODYPLEASEOPENUPSOMEBODY!
mickey		Sid? Jesus, where's Hallie? I've been here all night.
sidney		Listen to me. We've got to get help. The Killer's here.
mickey		What are you talking about?
sidney		He's after me.
mickey		Shit! You've got to cut me down, Sid.
sidney		I'll be right back.
mickey		Where you going?
sidney		Watch out.
mickey		Do it again.
sidney		Don't panic.
mickey		SIDNEYWATCHOUT!
sidney		Hey.
mickey		Run, Sid...
sidney		Hallie?
voice		 What is your emergency please?
gale		Someone's trying to kill me. I need the police.
voice		Are you in danger now?
gale		Yes, goddammit!
voice		Where is your attacker?
gale		I don't know.
voice		Stay under the safety light. Help is on its way.
gale		The safety what? Fuck that!
gale		SIDNEY!
sidney		Hello?
cotton		Quick, untie me.
voice		 You've seen this movie before, haven't you?
derek		Smile for the camera.
cotton		Sid, c'mon.
derek		Go on, untie him.
sidney		No. This is a set up.
derek		That's quick.
cotton		Please, Sidney, he's going to kill us.
derek		You must be dealing with some serious trust issues right about now.
cotton		Please, Sidney.
derek		You're really stumped, aren't you? You know there's two killers but you don't know who they are. I'm a given. The boyfriend. Way obvious. But now you're torn. Everyone else appears to be dead. Except for Cotton. Hmmm? Hmmm?
hallie		Paaaaiiin... yah, such pain... The story of your life, Sid.
derek		Need some help, honey.
hallie		I got it..
derek		You should really see your face right now, Sid. It's doing some freaky shit.
hallie		Yeah, you look quizzical yet pensive.
derek		Yeah, how can we help? Do you have any questions regarding the sequel of your life?
sidney		Why?
derek		Good question. You took the bait.
hallie		Ever see NATURAL BORN KILLERS? Well, Derek and I have this whole Mickey/Mallory-Woody Harrelson/Juliette Lewis thing going on.
derek		I really don't like that comparison, honey.
hallie		 He hates Oliver Stone.
derek		I find his work overwrought.
hallie		C'mon, Sid, don't fade on us. We've been planning this baby for a year. Humor us.
derek		Nope. You had your chance.
gale		Shit.
derek		We met on the internet.
hallie		He sent me the cutest e-mail.
derek		I read her postings on the horror movie chat boards and fell hopelessly. Hook, line...
hallie		We have our own website now. We dedicated a whole page to you.
derek		You'd me amazed at how many of us there are out there. It's a whole world, Sid. You're really popular amongst the demented.
hallie		You're the one who got away.
derek		Until now.
cotton		You guys are fucked.
hallie		Actually Cotton, and I think critics would agree, it's the other way around.
derek		Poor Cotton, could life be a little more cruel?
sidney		You're not going to get away with this.
hallie		Of course not. Who wants to? What's the point if we don't get caught? Where's the glamour in that?
derek		The way I see it. We'll be arrested. Go to prison. Cash in on the home footage. Secure a book deal. If all goes as planned, our trial should coincide with the release of STAB II.
hallie		A verdict and premiere all on the same day. I love it.
derek		We're hoping for the death penalty. I have this whole DEAD MAN WALKING swan song exit planned.
hallie		And now, drum roll please...
derek		Hope you're ready, Sid. We got one last surprise for you.
hallie		A twist ending if you will.
derek		Yeah, we really had our work cut out for us. It really is the curse of the sequel. The Billy/Stu thing's been done.
hallie		... so we had to be different but yet the same because if you venture to far away from your orginal story you completely alienate the audience...
derek		And we didn't want to do that, Sid. We wanted to give you your money's worth.
hallie		So we found a compromise.
derek		Or it found us.
hallie		We have a surprise guest star waiting in the wings.
derek		Just for you, Sid.
hallie		Wait a sec, Derek. We forgot to flip.
derek		Oh yeah.  Heads or tails?
hallie		Tails.
derek		Shit! You win.
gale		Sidney!
sidney		Gale!
hallie		It's about time she showed up.
debbie salt		standing, lips pursed.
debbie salt		Hello, Gale, we've been waiting for you.
sidney		Okay, look, you guys - I applaud your methodical expertise but I have a question. What's going to happen after I die? I thought the heroine is supposed to live.
hallie		Not this time.
derek		Yeah, we're trying to send a message to Hollywood. I'm really getting tired of all the happy endings. It's just not reality. In the real world the good guys die, the innocent are punished, and the murderers inherit the earth.
sidney		But nobody wants to see that. It'll never go. They'll rewrite you. You don't want that.
hallie		Oh, Sid, you're sounding desparate. I guess fearing death makes one anxious.
sidney		You fucking freaked out movie nut psychos...
voice		 Don't blame the movies, Sid. Movies don't create pyschos.
debbie salt		Don't you know that by now? It's about family. It all starts at home. It starts with the father... and the mother.
sidney		Mrs. Loomis?
gale		What?
sidney		Oh my God.
gale		Jesus. It can't be.
hallie		Told you we had a guest star. Didn't see that coming, did you?
derek		Everything's taken on a hyper- reality, hasn't it?
gale		You're Billy's mother?
debbie salt		I couldn't believe you didn't recognize me. You even interviewed me for your book.
gale		You're all in this together?
derek		We had to have financing.
hallie		Tuition's expensive.
sidney		Why Mrs. Loomis?
debbie salt		Where should we start? Your mother ruined my marriage by sleeping with my husband. You ruined my family by killing my son. Gale aired it to the world. Should I go on... isn't that enough?
gale		Jesus, you're just as whacked as your son.
debbie salt		Where do you think he got it? Mental illness is heriditary. Who do you think incouraged him to kill your mother? He was a smart kid but children need parental guidance.
derek		Yeah, she's been great, Sid. We never would have been able to it without her.
debbie salt		And I couldn't have done it without you two. Now who won the coin toss?
hallie		I did.
derek		What are you...
debbie salt		Nice kids but a little out there.
gale		What are you going to do?
debbie salt		Finish what my son started.
gale		But you'll never get away with it.
debbie salt		Enter Cotton Weary.
cotton		No... not again.
debbie salt		Sorry, Cotton. I guess you were just meant to be a killer.
sidney		You'll never get away with this.
debbie salt		Who would you like to shoot first, Cotton?
gale		Thank God.
cotton		Yeah...
gale		Thank you.
sidney		NOOO!
cotton		It's perfect, Sidney. No one will ever suspect me. I have proof. I'm the victim.
sidney		Please, Cotton, don't do this.
cotton		I get my revenge and make some fast cash.
sidney		It's over, Cotton.
cotton		Not until you're dead.
****Dialogues from script :Scream_3.txt****

ben		 God dammit Cathy I have no time for this crap! I'm supposed to be at the premiere of STAB 2 right Now, arm and arm with my girlfriend cause she's got a bit part in that over advertised piece of shit and I'm just going to humor her. You mena to tell me that in all your squandering the best you can do for me is A bit role in STAB 3: RETURN TO WOODSBORO?! Come on! It's just another cheap slasher flick! How dare you offer me such a role! I've done Shakespeare! I've worked with directors like DePalma and Scorcesse and you offer me this crap?! It's insulting. I should fire you and go to ICM.
ben		 Unfucking believable.
ben		Stab 3: Return To Woodsboro. Pah. What's next, Friday The 13TH PART 15: JASON DOES BROADWAY?
ben		 What's up, B.D. with the B.D.
woman's voice		 Hardly as large as I'd like it to be.
ben		Christine?
ben		Look, I'm stuck on the freeway. I think there was some big accident. It could be a little while so I don't want you to start freaking if I don't get there at exactly,  Eight thirty.
ben		 Oh I wouldn't miss it for the world. I bet you did such a great job.
ben		Heh heh I bet they are babe. I bet they are. Look, my battery's dying . . .
ben		Sure thing.
ben		 Hello?
voice		Hello.
ben		Who is this?
voice		Who is this?
ben		Well what number are you trying to reach?
voice		I don't know.
ben		I think you got the wrong number, buddy.
voice		Do I?
ben		 Uh-huh. Look bro, my battery is running out. Really wish I could chat, but I can't so, later.
voice		Wait, wait. Don't hang up.
ben		 Asshole, Can't talk.
voice		But your voice sounds so familiar.
ben		Does it now?
voice		You almost sound like that guy from THERE'S SOMETHING ABOUT CARRIE. Ben. Ben Damon.
ben		 Well ya got me. That's me. I'm Ben Damon.
voice		Really? You're such a talented actor.
ben		 Thanks.
voice		Now let's see you act your way out of this one.
ben		What do you mean?
voice		I mean, I'm standing right outside the LADIES ROOM door at the PLAZA THEATER. Your girlfriend Christine is in there.  She's all alone. Everyone's in the auditorium waiting for the film to start.  I've got my knife.
ben		 Listen you sick fuck, is this your idea of a joke?
voice		More of a game really.
ben		What kind of a game?
voice		You seem to be familiar with the STAB movies. Here's how we play. I ask you a question. You get it right, your girlfriend lives. You answer wrong, she dies.
ben		I swear to God if you lay a finger on her I'll fucking kill you!
voice		Maybe so, but right now, we play the game. First question, Your girlfriend's counting on you, Name your girlfriend's character in STAB 2?
voice		Come on. Don't you know?
ben		 It's CICI! Cici's the name of the character she plays in the movie!
ben		What?! But I did everything you said to do!
voice		That's right. And you beat ROUND 1. Now we're taking the game to a whole new level.  Meet me beneath the Hollywood sign in ten minutes. I'll have your girlfriend. We'll be waiting.
ben		What?!
voice		Good bye Ben.
recorded message		 Due to the high volume of calls this evening, Dispatch is temporarily shut down. If this is not a real emergency please call another dep-
voice		You're not playing by the rules Ben. Don't you want her to live?
ben		I swear to God if you lay one hand on her!
voice		No! You listen to me, if you're not where I want you in fifteen minutes I'll hollow her out. Do you understand?
ben		 Thank God I decided to do some community service.
ben		 Yeah.
voice		Very good. You follow directions well. Now for the final part of the game. Put down the bat and approach the sign, slowly.
ben		 Where are you?
voice		Closer than you think.
ben		 Alright I'm here. What the fuck do you want from me?
voice		To see your reaction.
ben		Reaction to what?
ben		OHMYGOD! NO! CHRISTINE --
ben		 BUT I'M THE KILLER IN STAB 3!
the ghost		You just lost the role Ben. Consider this your parting gift.
gale		Good morning Hollywood. And today officially starts the Summer movie season. Opening the box office this week is Jeff Bridges and Tim Robins in Arlington Street,  Eugene Levy and Jason Biggs in American Pastry, and Tori Spelling and David Schwimmer in STAB 2, based off my best selling book the WINDSOR MURDERS.
gale		Well I see a lot of the audience has dressed to the occasion. Today we have director of the upcoming STAB 3: RETURN TO WOODSBORO, Roman Bridger. Why don't we give Mr. Bridger a nice welcome to the set of Total Entertainment.
roman		Good morning Gale. Pleasure to be here.
gale		It's a pleasure to finally meet you, Roman.
roman		 Well it's a honor to be here amongst so many fans of the genre. And I must say that any of you worried that Jerry Rapp, or Tori or David not returning to complete the STAB trilogy, have no fear, Roman is here. Aided with my excellent cast of newcomers I believe we're going to pull off one of the best Stabs yet.
gale		Roman, from your enthusiasm it certainly seems that way.  tell us, what's    your favorite scary movie?
roman		 Honestly, my life.
gale		Your life?
roman		Well if you were in my shoes, dealing with those big Time Sunrise Studio producers like I do on a daily basis, you'd watch how quick your life goes from a Walt Disney picture to a Tobe Hooper flick.
gale		Would you excuse me for a moment?
roman		 Sure.
detective kincaid		I'm sorry Miss Weathers. Allow me to introduce myself, MARK KINCAID, L.A.P.D.  Are you familiar with the actor Ben Damon, or the actress CHRISTINE PERKINS?
gale		Well I interviewed Damon once for the show. He was a real obnoxious fuck. Any way, the second one, Christine Perkins, she had a part in Stab 2, didn't she? She was playing CICI.
detective kincaid		Both of them were found brutally murdered this morning under the Hollywood sign. Autopsy reports having come back to me yet but the bodies looked like something out one of the Stab films.
gale		So is that why you're here? Is that why you're holding me from my show, to tell me about some brutal homicide I'm not even involved in?
detective kincaid		I wish that was all Miss Weathers, but there's more. The killer left a note.
gale		A note?
detective kincaid		I've tried to get in touch with Sidney Prescott, but she's keeping herself very well hidden. You're my one and only hope in finding her. Her life may be in grave danger.
gale		I'd love to help, really I wouldn't mind being sliced at again by a maniacal psychopath, but I honestly don't know where Sidney is. After Windsor she dropped off the face of the Earth. The only other person that might know is, , not going to talk.
detective kincaid		And who would that be?
tom		Hey Dew, did you hear?
dewey		No, what?
tom		Somebody iced Ben Damon and his girlfriend.
dewey		That's Hollywood Tom. One day you're making movies in the hills, the next day you're posing for the coroner downtown on a slab.
sarah		Goddamnit I am getting so fed up with these re-writes. It's like every five minutes there's a new script. God, and you just know this all because of STAB 2's script winding up on the internet two months after it wrapped shooting.
tyson		And still the film is Number One at the box office this weekend. Beat out American Pasty and Arlington Street.
angelina		I think Jeff Bridges is getting tired.
tyson		Nah I think it's doing so damn well because one of it's players got iced. I just hope none of us end up dead.
angelina		Oh that's right. Those poor poor people. God Ben Damon was such a hottie.
tyson		 And that CICI chick wasn't that bad either but I'm really concerned about my safety now.
sarah		What are you talking about? The murders were a completely isolated incident.
tyson		 SCENE 32. INT. CANDY'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT. "What are you talking about Ricky, the murders were a completely isolated incident".
sarah		Would you give that script a rest? It's like a friggen umbilical cord to you.
tyson		I'm just saying, though. What if there's someone out there stalking actors? Huh? Then what?
angelina		There's always someone out there stalking actors. Look at that woman from the Commish.
tyson		Melinda McGraw?
angelina		No, the other one. The one who played his wife.
sarah		I know who you're talking about. Rebecca something.
angelina		Yeah I think. Anyway, point is, she had a stalker. Sonny Bono had a stalker. David Letterman had one too. So did Heather Langenkamp, Brooke Sheilds, Jody Foster, --
tyson		Listen Miss ingnue, your cheering me up to much, Give it a break.
tom		What? What'd I do? Relax your crack sweetheart I didn't rip those two fucks up last night. Jeez.  So what are you doing tonight?
tom		Talk about moody.
tom		And how about you good looking? Got any plans for later?
sarah		Eww yeah, finding a guy to have sex with that doesn't look like you.
tyson		Oh no. I ain't into that shit.
gale		Djr vu-do.
detective kincaid		Mr. Rielly? My name is Mark Kincaid. I'm with the L.A.P.D. Are you aware    of last night's Events?
dewey		Yeah. A real tragedy.
gale		Dewey, personal lives and pasts aside, this is about Sidney. We need to know where she is.
dewey		What so you can just exploit her again with another book? Sid doesn't need you Gale.
gale		 Show him.
detective kincaid		Mr. Rielly, this was found alongside the bodies of Ben and his girlfriend.
dewey		I promised Sid I'd keep her in seclusion. I promised her nobody would ever find her. If you don't mind Detective, I'd like to approach her with this on my own and see what she'd like to do about it.
detective kincaid		That's fine Mr. Rielly, but if anyone else should die, I'm going to have to get a warrant.
dewey		Understood.  Gale.
detective kincaid		I'm going to have a little chat with the producers. Don't wander off. I may need you.
jennifer		 DEWEY!
milton		I can assure you that security on the set will be at an all time high. Again, the deaths are sheer tragedy.
detective kincaid		Well, I'd hate to see the production shut down.  I myself am a big STAB fan.
buddy		Really?  Have you ever thought about acting? You've got just the right face.
detective kincaid		I am kind of dedicated to my job. Although I do enjoy taking acting classes on my weekends. I grew up around these studios anyway. I know my way around. My Uncle was a screenwriter for PARAMOUNT.
milton		Really, what was his name?
gale		Excuse me Detective, I think we have some business to attend to.
milton		 No press, no press on set! Get that woman out of here.
security gaurd		 Yes, Mr. Milton.
detective kincaid		No, Mr. Milton, Miss Weathers is with me.
milton		Well then, I guess I'll be leaving then.
gale		Oh come on! Why the hostility?
milton		Listen Lois Lane, I love your show and all but last month I happened to catch your little segment on me and how my wife left me because I'm a sex addict who enjoys screwing fifteen year old girls. It was a real eye opener my lawyers are still thinking about bringing to your superior's attentions.
gale		 They're the ones who approved it.
gale		Alright Kincaid, no where to?
detective kincaid		I go to the police station and do my job, and you go back to being Gale Weathers.
gale		Oh. I thought you wanted me to stick around.
detective kincaid		Look, Miss Weathers, if there's a problem, give me a call. Here's my card. I'm always there.
gale		Shit. Can I even get a ride home?
sidney		 Mom!
sidney		 This is Laura in Monterey reporting in for work.
sidney		Thanks.
sidney		Yes, hi I'm Laura, I'm a trained counselor. How can I help you.
sidney		Are you sure?
sidney		Well then the people you need to call are the police.
sidney		I'm sorry, your voice.
sidney		Who the fuck is this?
reporter		The mutilated bodies were discovered late last night by the L.A.P.D, prominent actor Ben Damon was slated for a role in the upcoming STAB 3: RETURN TO WOODSBORO --
voice		Do you think it's over Sidney? Do you?
sidney		W-what do you want?
voice		I want to finish what I started. I want to finish the game.
sidney		You sick fuck I'm tracing this call as we speak! The police are gonna nail your ass!
voice		 Let them try. You'll never find me. I've already gotten away with murder before. For instance, Maureen Prescott.
sidney		 No. You didn't kill my mother. Billy Loomis and Stu Macher did.
voice		Heh. So you think Sidney. So you think. It's all been building up to this Sid. Every STAB. Every SCREAM. Every ounce of blood that's been spilled has all been leading up to this moment. WELCOME TOTHE FINAL ACT.
sidney		The final act? Well let's play asshole!
voice		No. We play in my court this time. Come to Hollywood. STAB 3's going to cutting corners cast-wise.  And I've got my eyes set on a technical advisor named Dewey Rielly.
sidney		 If you lay a hand on him I'll fucking kill you!
voice		Great. A spirited one. I'll be seeing you real soon Sidney. Real soon.
sarah		STAB 3. Oh God I've gotta get myself a better agent.
sarah		 Anybody home?
sarah		Doubt that.  Anyone here?
tyson		Stan! My man does great work.
stan		Thank you. Thank you very much.
sarah		Fuck you very much! Tyson go to hell! What the hell are you doing here? Where's Roman?
tyson		Roman and everybody else went home for the night. I'm here for a make-up test.
sarah		Make-up. You need it.  Hey, Roman isn't here?
tyson		No.
sarah		Damn. He called my roommate and told her he had some important things he wanted to go over with me in his office tonight.
stan		 Yeah I bet.
sarah		 For the honorary field of directing and cinematography in music videos. How to the point.
sarah		Oh shit.  Hello? Director's office.
roman		Sarah, it's Roman, I'm sorry I'm running late, I'm still on the 405, I'm about 10 minutes away.
sarah		Oh it's no problem, I'm just... looking at your   music video awards.
roman		All right, since I got you on the phone, let's talk about your character.
sarah		What character?  I'm Candy, the chick who gets killed second.  I'm only in two scenes!
roman		You're not happy with your part.
sarah		I'm not happy that I'm 35 playing a 21 year old. I'm not happy that I have to die naked!  And I'm not happy that my character is too stupid not to have a gun in the house after her boyfriend's been cut into McNuggets.
roman		Um hmm...  umhmm great, so let's run the lines.
sarah		Huh, fine.
roman		Page 22, Candy's big moment.
roman		Hello.
sarah		Who's this?
roman		Who's this?
sarah		This is Candy.  Hang on, let me get some clothes. See!  I don't' understand why I have to start the scene in the shower!  The whole shower things been done, 'Vertigo' hello!  And I mean, my boyfriend just died, why am I showering?
roman		Why don't we just read the scene?  Candy, is that like candy cane or candy apple?
sarah		Whatever.  Come on, who is this?  I think you have the wrong number.
roman		But you know my favorite name?
sarah		I'm hanging up right now.
roman		It's Sarah.
sarah		Roman that's not the line.
roman		It is in my script.
sarah		Has there been another goddamn rewrite? How  the fuck are we supposed to learn our lines when there's a new script every 15 minutes?
roman		It's not just a new script, it's a new movie.
sarah		What?  What movie?
roman		My movie.
voice		It's called, Sarah gets sliced like a fucking pig. Still in character, Sarah?
security guard		Mr. Bridger?
sarah		Shit.
sarah		 No! No! Noooo!
detective kincaid		That's STAB 3, Miss Weathers. It looks like we're going to be getting a warrant to speak with Miss Prescott anyway.
gale		Shit. Sarah Darling.  I interviewed her too. God, it's happening again isn't it Detective?
detective kincaid		Yes well we have a suspect, so don't get that worried.
gale		Who?
detective kincaid		I'm not at liberty to tell you that Miss Weathers. You're no longer working with the L.A.P.D. I don't even know why you're standing in here right now. By all means I should have you thrown out.
gale		But you won't. You're a good man detective. We think alike. I know you need my help. And I know you know I need your help.
detective kincaid		In my fifteen years as a homicide detective I've never met a single soul as pushy and brazen as you are Miss Weathers.
gale		Please, call me Gale.
detective kincaid		Deal, but I'm still Detective Kincaid,ok?
detective wallace		Mark, Bridger's in custody. We traced his phone records. He's the last person to speak to Sarah Darling before she died. Or at least call her home.
gale		Wait a minute, Roman's your suspect?
detective wallace		Listen, Diane Sawyer, this here is classified information. Why don't you go investigate the bad meat at the A.P. This is police work, not Pulitzer material.
gale		Hey, fuck off.
detective kincaid		No, cool it Wallace. She's working with me.
detective wallace		 Well then. Looks like I'll go dust for finger prints with Barbara Walters.
gale		So, what now?
detective kincaid		Mr. Bridger, you didn't tell us you spoke with Sarah Darling before she died.
roman		That's because I didn't.
detective wallace		The guard said she was there for a meeting with you.
roman		What meeting?
detective wallace		We talked to her roommate, too.  Says you called Sarah and told her to come down to the studio.  Roommate answered the phone, says it was you.
roman		Wait a minute!  I never called her! I never told her to go   anywhere!
detective kincaid		Roommate says she knows your voice, Mr. Bridger.
roman		Well, she wasn't speaking with me!  Look, I did not call   Sarah Darling!
detective kincaid		Sarah Darling said you did.
roman		Someone is trying to ruin my movie. Someone wants to kill   my movie!
detective wallace		Hey, look at it this way, if anything this'll be something interesting to put on the director's commentary for when the film hits DVD.
roman		 Ha! Too late, studio's shutting down production. Called my film a risk! Do you believe this shit? They're actually shelving my film because there's been one ensie little murder. God, three people died during the filming of The Exorcist.
detective kincaid		Well I doubt they were stabbed to death and I strongly doubt the killer of them left messages on the scene for the police to find.
dewey		They found another note?
gale		Uh-huh. Another News clipping. Another one about Sid's mom. Dewey, whether we like it  or not it looks like we're going to have to  go back into our past.
dewey		You mean OUR past as in Me and Sid. This has nothing to do with you Gale.
gale		This has everything to do with me Dewey. I was the one who brought the nation's attention to this shit anyway. I'll be damned if I'm gonna sit around and pass on the buck again.
dewey		Do you really mean it this time Gale?
gale		Yes. Look, let's get something straight Dewey, I got into this shit cause the police came looking for ME. Not cause I'm out to make the SUNRISE STUDIOS SLASHINGS.
dewey		Why would the police come to you?
gale		Again, I am the author of the definitive book on the Woodsboro murders.!  What about you?
dewey		What about me?
gale		You said you'd never leave Woodsboro, 'The only place that's real!'  But now you're here. Not with me.  Dewey, I took care of you.  I waited until you were well.  I couldn't stay there, I mean, it's like dog years, one year in Woodsboro is like seven everywhere else.
dewey		So it's off to London for a week?  New York for a month? L.A Forever?
gale		It was fucking '60 Minutes II'!  I couldn't say no!  I could've been the next Diane Sawyer!
dewey		What's wrong with just being Gale Weathers? I liked her!
gale		It didn't work Dewey.  We tried,  we're different.
dewey		You used to say that was our strength.
gale		Dewey, you're not just here because of that second rate K-Mart, straight-to-video version of me, are you?
dewey		Brace yourself, Gale, all of this is actually not About you.
gale		All of what Dewey?  You do know something, don't you?
dewey		Off the record.
gale		Always.
dewey		Two months ago, the Woodsboro police got a call from a woman who said she was with 'Stab 3'.  She wanted to see the file on Sid, for research.
gale		And?
dewey		The boys said no.  She wouldn't give her name. A month later, the station gets broken into, the file room ransacked.
gale		Someone stole Sid's file?
dewey		I already removed it.  I think someone on the film was trying to find Sid, and that's the only reason I came here. To make do a little private investigating of my own and make sure no one here was planning anything.
gale		 I'm sorry, this is too good!
dewey		What part of 'Off the record' don't you understand?
gale		Right. Sorry. 
dewey		 I've got my suspicions but still, nothing  you say can ever make me take my eyes off one person.
gale		And who is that?
dewey		Jennifer needs me.
gale		Jennifer?! Wait, where are you going off to?
dewey		I'm on duty.
dewey		 Stop following me.
gale		I happen to work for the police god dammit!
dewey		You're not a detective.
gale		Neither are you, Magnum P.I.
dewey		Gale, your engine's still running.
gale		Fuck!
tom		Gale Weathers. What a surprise.
gale		Tom Prinze, tanked as usual. That's a shocker.
tom		Hey I really liked that piece you did on me last month. The one where you said my car accident was caused by me drinking and drugs, and how I faked the tire blow-out just so my insurance wouldn't sky rocket.
gale		Heh, well, that's TV journalism for ya. Stage the news to boost ratings.
tom		Really, cause that stunt lost me the lead role in Roman Polanski's latest picture. Huh, what a coincide I was picked up by Roman Bridger. Well, not exactly the Roman I wanted. Get my point? STAB 3 is bullshit. Fuck, because of your big mouth I'm here, drinking piss water SCOTCH with Second rate fucking celebrities like Jennifer Jollie and yourself!  Hey, I just got an idea. Maybe I should Have a look at your break line. That your car over there?
gale		I think we should go inside. I have to have a talk with the cast. ALL OF YOU.
tom		 Yeah I'm running on empty anyways. Gotta refuel.
jennifer		You! How can I ever get any fame playing you!
gale		Dewey, what the hell is she rambling about now? What's wrong Jen, see yourself on one of those USA NETWORK winners you did and realize how badly you suck at acting?
jennifer		God damn you Gale Weathers! Don't you see? The killer is choosing  his victims as they die in the script! Ben Damon's character was the first one to get offed. So was his girlfriend - but she wasn't cast yet so his real girlfriend was killed - then Sarah Darling's Candy, and now me!
gale		Wait a second, whoa! Calm down! Number one there were five different versions of the script given out. Ben Damon was given a fake script because he was only being offered the role. It only had fragments of real scenes from the actual script. And what, I die in STAB 3?
gale		 AND I DIE NAKED?!  UGH! This is complete bullshit. Who wrote this piece of crap?
jennifer		I know right. It was kinda weak. That's cause Will Kennison only wrote a rough treatment of it. The script was written by some new guy. He wrote Arlington Street.
gale		Still that was a much better movie, I saw it at the premiere last week. God, what the hell am I getting sidetracked with this shit for?! We've gotta get down to business.
angelina		 What are you talking about? Because of this shit I'll probably never act in a Hollywood film again.
tom		Hey good looking, if you play your cards right, I may be able to sit you down on my casting couch and try you out for a few films my  production company is working on.  How do you feel about a DEEP THROAT remake?
tom		I'll be right back.
tom		 Damn it. There goes my chances of getting some head from her.
tom		Aaaangelina?
tom		Angelina?
tom		You fucker!
tom		 Fucker!
jennifer		Shit! Where the hell are Tom and Angelina?
gale		I don't know. Screw them. Look, what's important is that we stick together. No matter what. If anyone is next it's you or me Jen.
dewey		What about Sidney?
jennifer		What about her?
dewey		Ssh. Maybe it's Tom or Angelina. I'll get it.
jennifer		What if it's the killer?
gale		Oh use your brain drama queen! Do the killers ever knock on the fucking door? Ever see Jason do that before burying an axe in some big titted blonde's head? Or maybe Michael or Chucky? Huh?
dewey		Don't worry. I'm prepared for anything.
gale		Amen boy scout, now answer the fucking door!
jennifer		Do you smell something?
dewey		 It's Gale. She farts when she gets nervous.
dewey		Alright don't panic! Just a fuse.
dewey		Hurry! Everyone out the back way! Now!
gale		Who's phone?
jennifer		Oh shit it's my cell!
dewey		Answer it!
jennifer		 Hello?
voice		Hello Jennifer. Wanna play a little game?
jennifer		It's him! It's the killer!
gale		 Listen you sick bastard, what the fuck do you want?
jennifer		What's your favorite scary movie Gale?
gale		I dunno but I can tell you that your's will be the home video footage of me sticking my foot up your ass! Now come out and fight like a real man you pussy!
jennifer		God damn it you two! Run! Hurry! He's dead!
gale		No! He's not dead! He's still breathing! Look!
dewey		Gale he's dead. Come on. Let's get out of here.
dewey		OH. OH GOD. GALE --
gale		What?
dewey		 GALE BEHIND YOU!
jennifer		 DIE MOTHER FUCKER! DIE! DIE! DIE!
gale		Come on!
dewey		OH SHIT! RUN!
detective kincaid		Whoever it is, now is taking credit for Maureen Prescott's murder.
gale		But we know who killed Maureen Prescott, Billy Loomis and Stu Macher.  I mean, they even told Sidney how they did it!
detective kincaid		Yeah, but, if I'm not mistaken, you said in your book that Sidney got it wrong before. She accused Cotton Weary of murdering her mother, and he was sent away for it!  Maybe there is a third killer.  Sidney Might know something
dewey		I told you, I don't know where Sidney is. And even if there was a third killer, Sidney doesn't know about it.
detective kincaid		That is for me to decide.  I need to talk to her Mr. Riley, she is a key element in this case.  I have a press conference in an hour, and I need to explain why there are four dead celebrities.
gale		Four? There are five.
detective kincaid		Ben Damon. Christine Perkins. Sarah Darling. Tom Prinze. That's four, last time I learned how to count.
dewey		What about Angelina Tyler? She was there too.
detective kincaid		Police are still searching through the debris. Could be days before we find her . . . that is, if she's even there.
gale		OK, look.  We all know that this has something to do with 'Stab 3'.  What we do not know is why the killer keeps leaving articles about Maureen Prescott.
detective kincaid		Actually, there was more this time. This time, we found a picture too.
detective kincaid		Before you jump to conclusions, the man in the picture, COTTON WEARY, is out of the country on business. His alibi checks out. Seems he's got a TV show in Australia, 100% COTTON. It's supposedly the biggest thing down under since Yahoo Serious, but that's besides the point.
dewey		What does this have to do with Sid?
detective kincaid		Who knows more about Maureen Prescott than her own daughter?
dewey		Well Sid's dad couldn't help you and he was married to Maureen.
detective wallace		 What's your problem?  Last night you were almost charcoal.  You gonna help us or what?
detective kincaid		Do you wanna have this conversation with a polygraph?
dewey		Is that a threat, Detective?
detective kincaid		When it's a threat, you'll know it.
dewey		 Is that a threat?
gale		Boys, boys, why don't we compare our gun calibers later?  The issue is Maureen Prescott!
detective kincaid		Wrong, this issue is Sidney Prescott!  And either Mr. Riley is going to obstruct justice or is going to put me in touch with her.  So, where is she?
dewey		Sid it's me, this is the sixth time I've called.  Sid!
sidney		DEWEY!
dewey		What are you doing here? I told you to stay hidden! It's not safe for you up here.
sidney		Well it's not safe for me up there either. The killer found me Dewey. He called me last night.
dewey		What?
sidney		I figured I'd be safe If I was at least up here with the people I care about.  Now where's this Kincaid guy the news is talking about? I found this place from a FOX 5 TV NEWS REPORT. Heh.
dewey		Follow me.
dewey		Detective Kincaid?
detective kincaid		What Rielly?
dewey		There's someone here who wants to help.
gale		Oh my God! Sidney, you ran fast or what?  Hey.
gale		Thank you.
dewey		Sid, this is detective Kincaid.
detective kincaid		Nice to finally meet you, Sidney.
dewey		The killer called her.
detective kincaid		What?  When?
gale		What'd he say?
sidney		Oh, you know, the usual small talk, "What's new, how ya been, how do you want to die?"
dewey		Sidney, do you have any idea how he could've gotten your number?
detective kincaid		He could've monitored the calls on a scanner. Did you call her from the set?
dewey		No.
gale		Do you have her number stored in your memory?  Phone memory!
dewey		Oh.  Yeah, I guess I do.
gale		Has anyone else every used your phone?
dewey		Just Jennifer.  And you.
detective kincaid		Hey, I'm the cop here.  You're in my office, Riley.
detective kincaid		The killer leaves a newspaper clipping at each murder, Sidney. Recently he's also left a photo of your mother.
sidney		Why didn't you tell me?  This is my mother, Dewey. Why didn't you say something?
dewey		I was afraid they were bait, something to, ya know,  trick you out of hiding.
sidney		Listen, Detective, I wanna see this studio where all this shit's going down.
detective kincaid		Are you sure?
sidney		Absolutely.
dewey		Alright Sid, over there is the STAB 3 Production offices. That's where Sarah Darling was murdered last night.
sidney		Mm, what a waste of Silicone.  What does my mother have to do with this all Dewey? We're a long way from Woodsboro.
sidney		Oh my God Karen you scared the shit out of me! What are you doing here?
gale		Who's this.
dewey		Karen Colcheck. From Woodsboro.
sidney		She was Randy's only girlfriend . . . ever.
karen		 That's me. First and Last.
sidney		It's been a while? You still working at Bradley's?
karen		Nope. They opened up a Hollywood Video down the street. It pays better. Anyway, I'm here because I heard on the news about the murders and well, I found this while rooting through Randy's things.
randy		Told you I'd make a movie someday, huh?
sidney		Oh MY god.
randy		Well, if you're watching this tape, it means as I feared, I did not survive these killings here at Windsor College.   Anyway, the reason I am here is to help you, so that my death will not be in vain.  That my life's work, will help save some other poor soul from getting mutilated. If this killer does come back, and he's for real, there are a few things that you gotta remember. Is this simply another sequel?  Well, if it is, same rules apply.  But, here's the critical thing.  If you find yourself dealing with an unexpected backstory, and a preponderance of exposition,  then the sequel rules do not apply.  Because you are not dealing with a sequel, you are dealing with the concluding chapter of a trilogy.
dewey		A trilogy?
randy		That's right.  It's a rarity in the horror field, but it does exist, and it's a force to be reckoned with, because true trilogies are all about going back to the beginning and discovering something that wasn't true from the get go.  'Godfather', 'Jedi', all revealed something that we thought was true, that wasn't true.   So if it is a trilogy you are dealing with, here are some super trilogy rules.   One, you got a killer who's gonna be super human.  Stabbing him won't work, shooting him won't work, basically in the third one, you gotta cryogenically freeze his head, decapitate him, or blow him up.   Number two; anyone including the main character can die.  This means you, Sid.  I'm sorry, it's the final chapter.  It can be fuckin  'Reservoir Dogs' by the time this thing is through.  Number three; the past will come back to bite you in the ass!  Whatever you think you know about the past, forget it.  The past is not at rest, any sins you think were committed in the past are about to break out and destroy you. NUMBER FOUR,Never, ever under any circumstances go running off by yourself, cause if Friday the 13th has taught us anything, it's that the next time we're gonna see you, you're gonna have a fence post jutting out from your back. So in closing, let me say good luck, God Speed, and for some of you, I'll see you soon, cause the rules say, some of you ain't gonna make it.  I didn't, not if you're watching this tape.
sidney		Thanks Karen. You be careful.
karen		Don't worry Sid. I got tickets to see Family Feud. I did have a somewhat ulterior motive for driving all the way down here.
gale		I've got an idea, I'll hook up with you guys later.
dewey		Do you want us to come with you?
gale		I work better alone.  Why don't you do some snooping around the set?
sidney		I can see nothing's changed.
dewey		No.
jennifer		Geez.
gale		What the hell are you doing?
jennifer		Being Gale Weathers.  What the hell are you doing?
gale		I am Gale Weathers!
jennifer		Here's how I see it.  I've got no house, no movie, no gun, and I'm being stalked.  Because someone wants to kill me?  No, because someone wants to kill you. So now, starting now, I go where you go.  That way, if someone wants to kill me, I'll be with you, and since they really want to kill you, they won't kill me, they'll kill you.  Make sense?
gale		None.
jennifer		You know in the movies, I play you as being much smarter.
gale		And as a sane person.  For you that must be quite a stretch.
jennifer		That's funny.
gale		Ha. Maybe I should join SNL.
jennifer		Need to get in that building?
gale		 No really?
jennifer		There a story in that building?
gale		Possibly.
jennifer		Basements creep me out.
gale		Really, you know you'd make a fascinating interview. Lifestyles of the Rich and Psychotic.
jennifer		Look who's talking Moneybags. You got more homes than I do.
gale		 Oh I wish I got that one on tape. It'd put a smile on my face everytime I'm down.
jennifer		 Bitch.
bianca		Can I help you?
gale		I'm Gale Weathers, author of the Woodsboro and Windsor College murders, and anchorwoman for TOTAL ENTERTAINMENT. Maybe you've heard of me?
bianca		I don't watch TV and I hate books. Whatta you need?
gale		Does the name Maureen Prescott sound familiar to you?
bianca		Nope.
gale		 Well can you tell me if the woman in this picture looks familiar to you.
bianca		Listen, I'm busy. Nobody has access to those files except studio execs. Can you please go away now?
gale		Well if you won't work for me, will you work for the president?
bianca		The president . . . of the studio.
jennifer		Twenty dollars? Who are you Nancy Drew?
jennifer		Go ahead. It's worth three grand easy.  My Gale Weather's will stop at nothing to get the story.
bianca		Follow me.
bianca		 I know every face in here, respect for the unknown actor I suppose, myself included. If you're looking for Maureen Prescott --
gale		 It may be Maureen Reynolds --
bianca		Well you'll find neither. Rina Reynolds, however, You will.
jennifer		 Rina Reynolds. What a stage name.
bianca		You should talk, Judy Jurgenstein.
gale		What are these movies? 'Amazombies', 'Space Psychos' 'Creatures from theSan Andreas Fault'?
bianca		Horror flicks. B-Movies from Milton's heyday.
bianca		You know, JOHN MILTON, the horror producer? Those were some of his early flicks.
sidney		Listen Dewey I have to go to the bathroom.
dewey		Do you want me to come with you Sid? I mean, remember what Randy said?
sidney		No I'll be ok. I've got my mace. My knife.  These two lethal weapons.
detective wallace		Sure you don't need a police escort? That's what we're here for.
sidney		No really, I'll be fine.
sidney		I'll be right back.
sidney		H-hello? Anyone there?
sidney		 Shit.
dewey		 Don't worry, I've got a permit for it.
sidney		 Jesus Christ Dewey help me! They tried to kill me in the bathroom! The killers!
detective wallace		Wait a second? Killers? There's two of them now? Aw shit!
detective wallace		 No. Oh really. Alright, see you in a minute.
dewey		What?
detective wallace		Well I got some good news in a way. Roman Bridger didn't make those calls To Sarah Darling. Police let him go. Here's the bad news: The cellular was cloned, it's untraceable. We now have no suspects.
gale		Sidney, what happened?
dewey		Nevermind, what'd you two find?
gale		We did some researching in the archives. Sid, something dawned on me when I wrote the book on your mother's murder. For two years of her life, 1969 up until 1971 she basically disappeared off the face of the Earth.
sidney		What are you talking about?
jennifer		We've found out where she went.
gale		She was an actress Sidney. Minor B-Movies. But now we have a new suspect in this twisted fucking web . . . John Milton.
detective wallace		The head of the studio?
gale		It makes sense doesn't it? It's his big grandiose swan song from the genre. What a better way to end than with a bloodbath?
jennifer		Sidney, what happened?
sidney		I was attacked in the bathroom.
dewey		Wallace, shouldn't you be investigating the bathroom?
detective wallace		 I'm waiting for back-up. I don't carry bullets in my gun unless I know I'm gonna use em.  Dewey nods suspiciously.  Kincaid comes rushing into  frame.
detective kincaid		Jesus Christ Sidney, what happened? I got a call on my cell from home. They told me that someone was attacked.
dewey		And what made you think it was Sidney?
detective kincaid		 Sid, get in my car. You're coming back to the station with me where it's safe.
gale		Dewey, Jennifer, I think we should pay John Milton a little visit.
milton		 No, not to you Roman. Look I'll talk to you later. Bye.
dewey		So you knew Sidney Prescott's mother.
milton		Just what the hell do you people think you're doing, barging in here like this? I've got important calls to make. I run this studio.
gale		Answer the question. You knew Sidney's mom?
milton		Who?
jennifer		Rina Reynolds.
milton		Do you know how many actors have worked for me? Hundreds, thousands.
gale		Nobody said she was an actor.
jennifer		Good twist.
dewey		No point, I'm just gonna give Detective Kincaid a call.
milton		I remember her!  She was a bit player in a couple of my movies. A nobody! So what does it matter?
jennifer		Oh, Come on!  You have made millions off the story of her murder.  You're obsessed with HER and you're obsessed with her DAUGHTER!
gale		Settle down Beavis.  Why don't you tell us the truth?
milton		What the hell are you guys getting at?  I make horror films, that's what I do.  The Studio came to me with 'Stab'.  They came to me, check it out.
dewey		But you know who she was.
milton		When we did the first 'Stab" I realized I'd known Maureen Prescott before, I mean as Rina. I couldn't tell anyone.  Can you imagine the press?
gale		And now? I mean, murders on your set and still you say nothing?
milton		Get real, that would make me a suspect!
gale		Just because you knew her?
milton		Yeah.
gale		I don't think so!  Just what happened to Maureen when she was in Hollywood?
milton		Now you listen to me, Lois Lane, let it go. It's dead and buried. Daddy took ol' Yeller out behind the barn and shot him in the head a long time ago.
gale		Well how would you like his rotten carcass dug up and drug all over National TV? Why don't you start talking.
milton		It was in the 70's, everything was different. I was well known for my parties, Rina knew what they were. It was for girls like her to meet men, men who could get them parts, if they made the right impression.  Nothing happened to her that she didn't invite, in one way or another, no matter what she said afterwards.
gale		Are you saying she was-
milton		I'm saying things got out of hand.  Maybe they did take advantage of her!.  Maybe the sad truth is, this is not the city for innocence.  No charges were brought.  And the bottom line is, Rina Reynolds wouldn't play by the rules.  You wanna get ahead in Hollywood, you gotta play the game, or go home.
sidney		What do you know about trilogies?
detective kincaid		You mean like, movie trilogies?
sidney		You seem to like movies, Detective.
detective kincaid		Call me Mark, would you?  Cause I'm gonna keep calling you Sidney.
sidney		I'll call you Mark when you catch the killer, Detective.
detective kincaid		All I know about movie trilogies is in the third one, all bets are off.
sidney		 Did you request this case?
detective kincaid		No, they tend to put me on the ones that deal with the business.  I grew up here, and I know my way around the studios.
sidney		Must be exciting, Beautiful place, beautiful people.
detective kincaid		To me Hollywood is about death.
sidney		Excuse me?
detective kincaid		I'm a homicide detective, remember?  When you see what I see day in and day out, the violence that people do to each other, you get haunted. I think you know about that.
sidney		What do you mean?
detective kincaid		I know what it's like to see ghosts that don't Go away.  To be watching a scary movie in your head, whether you want to or not,  watching it alone.
sidney		Ghosts are tough,  you can't shoot ghosts.
detective kincaid		Can't arrest ghosts.  But the best way to stop being haunted is to be with people.  You're here, you're not hiding, you've done the right thing, Miss Prescott.
sidney		Hmm.
detective kincaid		What did you know about your mother?
sidney		I used to think I had the perfect mom, perfect family.  Till I found out I was wrong.  She had a secret life, and I tried to understand that, and soon as I thought I had, more secrets.  I don't' know who my mom was.  Sometimes I feel like I'm just learning about my mother for the first time. You know, with TV and those movies and what not. God sometimes I feel like I'm just learning about myself for the first time. Like I'm watching my life instead of living in it.
detective kincaid		 Here's the deal, I'm off to search the soundstage. That's good news.
sidney		How is that good news?
detective kincaid		Because, that means that we're dealing with an ordinary, flesh and blood killer.  And I know how to handle guys like that.
sidney		Oh yeah, how?
detective kincaid		Catch him, or kill him.
sidney		Hey Detective?  What's your favorite scary movie?
detective kincaid		 My life.
sidney		Mine too.
jennifer		Oh God Gale, Dewey was right. Stop getting so nervous and you might stop causing me to gag!
jennifer		I think Milton's the killer. I think he just went out to kill another cast member.
gale		Milton's not a killer. He's a pervert. He probably went out to buy more KY JELLY for his jack -off parties he has with his two best friends.
jennifer		Rob Reiner and Quentin Tarentino?
gale		 His two hands, dingus.
dewey		Ssh ladies.
milton		 John Milton.
voice		Wanna play a game?
milton		Who is this?
voice		You tell me. You bankrolled three  movies about me.
milton		It's you. The saboteur whose been fucking up my movie!  I swear to God if you don't stop I'll find you and have you killed! I shut down production on that piece of shit STAB 3! We had a no talent director and the lousiest Sidney Prescott on the planet but that was besides the point! You still killed MY movie! A John Milton film! And if you ever try and cross me again you'll be sorry. My next movie is gonna be a grandiose step up from this slasher shit! It's a film written and directed by John Sayles.
voice		Oh poor John. There's not gonna be another film. Well, at least not for you.
dewey		Hold on Gale, I'm a pro at this.
gale		Oh Dewey I'm sorry.
gale		Here. Let me --
jennifer		Excuse me Gale! What the hell do you think you're doing?
dewey		 Let's get this drawer open. If it's locked, there must be something inside he's trying to hide.
gale		Shit. That's gonna leave a mark.
jennifer		What? What'd you find?
gale		Paternity test results. Christ Dewey, you're never going to believe who Milton's kid is.
dewey		Who is it?
jennifer		 Guys! I got a bad feeling.
jennifer		Guys there's someone else in the fucking room!
dewey		Huh?
dewey		 Gale run!
gale		 Dewey!
detective kincaid		Jesus Gale what happened?
gale		 DEWEY! Dewey's in there too! He needs medical help! He's hurt!
detective kincaid		Alright, calm down. I'm going to radio in for backup right now.
voice		I wouldn't run if I were you Gale. It's only gonna end up with you getting Skewered like a fucking pig. I need you.
gale		 Awfully late time to be doing an interview.
voice		I need you as bait. For Sidney.
sidney		 Hello?
sidney		Who is this?
sidney		Um wh-who's calling?
sidney		Gale, Dewey, whoever, um, call me back, I can only hear myself.
voice		{ a click } I only her you too, Sidney.
sidney		Who is this?
voice		The question isn't who I am.  The question is, who's with me.
gale		 Sidney, stay away!
voice		Don't do it!  If you do one thing to attract attention, one thing, I'll kill them both. Now, do you have somewhere we can be alone?
sidney		Yes.
voice		Go there.
voice		Always hard being friends with you, Sidney. When you're friends with Sidney, you die! Well these friends don't have to, Sidney. It's up to you.
sidney		How do I know their voices are --
voice		Are real?  How do you know you're not hearing things? How do you know I'm not someone in your head? Somewhere, you know.
dewey		 Don't come here Sidney!
gale		Dewey! No!
voice		Or do you?
sidney		You're dead!
voice		I don't want them, I want you!  It's simple. You show yourself, they survive, you run, they die!
gale		Oh God!  Oh God!
voice		Don't you want to know Sidney? Don't you want to know who killed her?  Don't you want to know who killed your mother?
sidney		Where?
voice		She'd have been so happy, Sidney, to know we'd be together.
sidney		WHERE?
voice		I'll call you, when you're on your way.
sidney		Fuck!
sidney		 Yeah?
voice		You follow directions good. Now let's wrap this production. Go to the Sunrise Studios backlot. I'll call you when you get there.
sidney		 Alright, I'm here. Now what?
voice		You're doing real good. Can't you figure it out? I wanna finish this where it all began. Woodsboro.
sidney		I thought you wanted me here?
sidney		 Alright I'm here, now show your  face so we can finish this.
voice		It's good to see you again Sidney. I was growing real impatient. Go ahead. Explore. I'll catch up with you later.
sidney		Yeah?
sidney		Dewey?! OHMIGOD! Where are you?!
sidney		Where are you Dewey?
ghost		 You play a good game Sidney. Now it's time to get down to business.
sidney		Who are you?
ghost		 Your other half.
sidney		GALE!
gale		Christ Sidney hurry up! That fucking lunatic is coming!
sidney		Gale he's got Dewey!
gale		I know! He killed Kincaid!
sidney		I know!
gale		Let's get out of here!
sidney		 GALE WATCHOUT!
gale		Jesus Christ Sidney get out of here! He can't get us both!
gale		RUNNN!
sidney		 Dewey!
dewey		Where's Gale?
sidney		They've got her!
dewey		Sid I want you to stay here! I'll be right back! I'm not gonna let them get Gale!
dewey		 Hold it right there you fucker!
dewey		 OH shit!
sidney		 Oh God.
angelina		Time to sort things out. Whatta you say?
sidney		It's you?! All of this is because of you?
angelina		No. Not all of it. Sid, someone really wants to meet you.
angelina		Uh-un Sid. You're not gonna run off. Not now.
sidney		Who the hell are you?
the ghost		The other half of you! I searched for a mother too, an actress named Rina Reynolds. I tried to find her my whole life. And four years ago I actually tracked her down, knocked on her door, thinking she'd welcome me back with open arms, but she had a new life and a new name, Maureen Prescott! You were the only child she claimed Sidney. She shut me out in the cold forever, her own son!
sidney		All the nightmares. All the hell I went through was because of you, you spineless bastard!
roman		I'm a director Sid, I direct. For example, Angelina over there,  She's my partner. I can convince her to do anything.  We've been dating since I met her in Woodsboro.
sidney		 Oh my God, Angie Crick? From English class?
angelina		That's me Sid. I always idolized you. You were always my hero. That's why I'm here Sidney. I wanted to make you proud.
roman		And I kinda keep her around cause it's a bit of a turn-on. You know, in the movies she's you Sid, so every time I jump her bones, I'm doing YOU, technically.
sidney		 Listen, I have no time for this. I've heard this shit before! So lets get on with it!
roman		Wait a second Sid. Don't you go jumping the gun. You haven't seen the best part.  Ain't it cool? Listen to what the police are gonna find next to your lifeless, mutilated body.
sidney		 I can't take it anymore. This Hollywood exploitation of the nightmare I lived has to be stopped. I did this to make you all repent for your sins, and now I'm pleased I've got my message across. Good-bye.
roman		 Awesome. What'd I tell ya? Heh. Did youknow that John Milton, was my daddy? Yep, he's the one who fucked mommy dearest in the long run. His parties, his flings, exploited the Hollywood nobody! That's whyI had to make him pay. Daddy dearest is dead. Mommy's dead. Looks like I'm an orphan all alone in this world. What a good reason to -- STAB MYSELF!
roman		See Sidney, as amateur as Billy and Stu were, they laid the groundwork for this! See Sidney, they also set the stage for you! Introducing to the world Sidney the victim! Sidney the survivor! Sidney the star!
roman		See Sid, now comes the part where we get away with it! The part where we win! Cause face it Sidney, in this world, the bad guys win!
sidney		Roman knock it off! Do you people even know why you kill people? You kill people cause you choose to and not because of any other fucking reason!
angelina		 Roman make her stop! Make her stop baby she's freaking me out!
roman		 God damn it Sidney!
gale		 Hey bitch, don't ever use prop cuffs to restrain Gale Weathers.
gale		 I know all the tricks!
sidney		Dewey my God I thought you were dead.
dewey		Don't worry Sid I'd never leave you like that.
sidney		DEWEY! IT'S GALE!
gale		 THIS IS FOR THE STARDOM I NEVER HAD! BITCH!
dewey		Watch out Sid. Randy said the killer's always superhuman.
sidney		He wasn't superhuman Dewey. He wasn't superhuman at all.
gale		WHOA! HOLY SHIT IS THIS GONNA MAKE A GOOD BOOK!
sidney		 This shit is really getting repetitive, you know?
dewey		Gale, I know this is a bad time and all but what if we try it out again. The whole relationship thing.
gale		 Sure, why not. You did Save my life,Mr. Rielly.
detective wallace		Jesus Christ what happened? I leave for two seconds to take my kid to the doctor, I come back and it's the fucking WILD BUNCH.
sidney		It was just something that's been itching to be completed for the past four years.
detective wallace		I guess so.
sidney		Take care Detective. Give my regards to the wife and kids.
****Dialogues from script :Se7en.txt****

seven		 by  Andrew Kevin Walker
somerset		No... no.  There's nothing wrong.
man		 Not that it's any of my business... but, are you figuring on moving out here eventually?
somerset		Soon.
man		I just never seen a man mortgaging an empty house before.
somerset		Everything here still seems... seems so strange to me.  All this.
man		I don't know.  I'd say this place is about as normal as places get.
somerset		That is exactly what I mean.  Strange.
mills		Is that your car, man?
first thug		What the fuck do you care?
mills		Does that car belong to you?
first thug		Yeah, it's my car, alright?  Fuck off.
mills		You're telling me that's your car?
second thug		Well, for some strange reason, I don't believe you.
first thug		 You can fucking suck my...
taylor		Neighbors heard them screaming at each other.  It was nothing new or unusual. But, then they heard the gun go off. Boom, boom... both barrels.
somerset		Did his wife confess?  Did she actually speak the words?
taylor		When the patrolman got here she was trying to put his head back together. She was crying too hard to say anything.  Crime of passion.
somerset		Yes.  Look at all the passion splattered up on the wall here.
taylor		This is a done deal.  All but the paperwork.
somerset		Did their son see it happen?
taylor		What kind of question is that?  Huh?  He's dead.  His wife killed him.  There it is.  That's all.  Anything else has nothing to do with nothing.
mills		Uh... Lieutenant Somerset?
mills		I'm a little thrown.  I just finished orientation at central, and they dumped me off down here.
somerset		I heard you brought in two small-timers last night.
mills		Yeah.  Two real idiots.
somerset		Since we are just starting out, I thought we could go to a bar.  Sit and talk for awhile.  That way we can...
mills		Excuse me, but I'd rather start sniffing for a case, if it's all the same to you. Seeing how we only have a week for this whole transition thing.  I want to get into the shit a.s.a.p., know what I mean?
somerset		I meant to ask you something... when we spoke on the phone.  I can't help wondering...  Why are you here?
mills		 I... I don't follow.
somerset		All this effort you've gone through, to be transferred from Philadelphia to here.  It's the first question that pops into my head.
mills		I'm here for the same reasons as you, I guess.  Or... at least the same reasons you used to have for being here...  ...before you decided to give up.
somerset		You think you know me?  You just met me two minutes ago.
mills		Maybe I don't understand the question.
somerset		It's very simple.  You've come from the "City of Brotherly Love" to the "City of Brotherly Hate," detective.  I've never seen it done that way.
mills		I don't know.  Maybe I thought I could do more good here than there.  You know, it'd be great by me if we didn't start right out kicking each other in the balls.  But, you're calling the shots, lieutenant, so however you want it to go.
somerset		Let me tell you how I want this to go. I want you to look, and I want you to listen.
mills		I wasn't standing around Philly guarding the fucking Liberty Bell.
somerset		But, you've never worked homicide in this city.
mills		I realize that.
somerset		Well, please do me the favor of remembering it.
somerset		At what time did you confirm the death?
davis		Like I said, we didn't touch anything, but we were on scene at like o-five- hundred, so he's had his face in a plate of spaghetti for about half an hour.
mills		Wait, wait, wait.  You didn't check him? You didn't check vital signs?
davis		Believe me, he's gone.  Unless he's breathing spaghetti sauce now.
mills		No.  The point is, when you're first man in, you check vital signs.
davis		This guy's sitting in a pile of his own shit and piss.  If he ain't dead he would have stood up by now.
mills		 Listen, Godzilla...
somerset		Thank you, Officer Davis.  We'll see you again after we've had a look.
davis		Yes, sir.
somerset		I wonder what exactly was the point of the conversation you were about to get into?
mills		And, I wonder how many times Officer Davis there has found a supposedly dead man who didn't really die until Davis was back in the patrol car calling the morgue and eating a powdered donut.
somerset		Drop it.  We have more important concerns just now, don't we?
mills		Fine... for now.
photographer		Bon appetit.
mills		I guess that makes it homicide.
somerset		 Not yet.
mills		I saw a guy once... committed suicide, but he wanted to make sure his family could collect insurance money, right?
somerset		If you could... spare me the anecdotes for now.  Leave the refrigerator open for the light.
mills		 Oh, forgive me.  I thought we had this male-bonding thing going.  My mistake.
somerset		What do you smell?  Other than him, and all the food.
mills		 I don't know... there's something.
somerset		A bucket.
mills		It's vomit.
somerset		Is there any blood in it?
mills		Can't tell by looking.
mills		 You think he was poisoned?
somerset		Guessing this early is useless.
mills		There's room.  Light's the problem.
somerset		Well, three is certainly a crowd in here.  And, with four, someone's bound to be stepping on evidence.  Detective Mills, go help the officers question the neighbors.
mills		 Thanks, but no thanks.  I'll stay on this.
somerset		 Send one forensic in on your way out.
somerset		Pizza and paperwork, Detective Mills.
mills		We need to chat.
somerset		No.
mills		You just hold them up.  I do all the work.
somerset		Yes.  Impressive work.
mills		So, what's your problem?  I've done my time on door-to-doors, and walking a beat.
somerset		I know it.  That doesn't mean...
mills		I did all that shit a long time ago.
somerset		I made a decision, because I have to worry about the integrity of the scene.
mills		That's bullshit.
somerset		When I'm on scene, I'm not going to worry whether you think you're getting enough time on the playing field.  I'm there to do the work.
mills		The badge in my pocket says "detective," just like yours.  I've been Homicide for four and a half years.
somerset		You've worked Homicide for four years, or for five years... Don't count the half-years, unless you want to sound like a rookie.
mills		Oops.  My hand slipped.
tracy		Thank you.
mills		It was okay.  I mean... it was certainly better than yesterday.  I think Somerset and I came to a small understanding...
tracy		He sounds interesting.
mills		He is that, if nothing else.
strange man		Name that tune?  Anybody name that tune? Name that tune...
tracy		It's... it's like they emptied all the insane asylums into the streets.
mills		There are a lot of frightening people in the world.
strange man		Name that tune?  Anybody name that tune?
tracy		It seems worse than Philadelphia, because everything is pushed right up against you.  In your face.
mills		Listen, honey.  I don't want to fight tonight.  Okay?  Can we just go one night without fighting about something?
tracy		I'm not trying to start a fight.  How am I trying to start a fight?
mills		We're here now.  Okay.  Are we supposed to pack it all in and go back?  How are we going to do that?
tracy		Do I have to act like I love this place? Is that what a "good wife" would do?
mills		 There's a lot of pressure on me... I...
tracy		And, there's a lot of pressure on me. I'm here with you.
mills		I know.  I know...
tracy		I'm not going to close my eyes and block everything out, David.  I'm not going to act like you delivered us to some sort of paradise.  I can't...
mills		Fuck you.  Fuck you, you son of a bitch!  I'm walking here.
mills		I'm sorry... I couldn't pass it up.  I never had a chance to actually do that. But, we can start the argument right back up where we left off, right?
mills		 What?
strange man		That was the theme from tv's Mod Squad. I'm surprised nobody got that one.
old man		 Excuse me.  Excuse me!
tracy		Goodnight.
mills		Goodnight.
santiago		If you take a look here, buddies... I can tell you, it was not a poison. If you can see... I have emptied all of everything out of the stomach.  But, look at it, now that I took away the liver.
mills		I can see what you're pointing at...
santiago		On the stomach.  The lines of distention.
somerset		Doctor, are you saying this man... ate till he burst?
santiago		Yes, well, he didn't actually burst.  He was bleeding, inside of himself. And, there's a hemotoma on the outside... on the belly.
mills		He died by eating?
santiago		Someone punched him, or kicked him.
mills		Plastic?
santiago		Why these were in a fat man's stomach, I don't know.
somerset		Those bruises on the back of the victim's head were caused by the muzzle of a gun.
mills		So, the killer had him at gunpoint, and gave him a choice: eat, or get your head blown off.
somerset		He was force-fed... till his body started rejecting the food.  He literally couldn't eat another bite.
mills		So, the killer held a bucket under him.
somerset		His throat was swollen from the effort. He was bleeding internally. He must have blacked out... and, if you're the killer, you're not going to want to wait around for him to die.
mills		You kick him, pop him like a fucking balloon.  Somerset, look here.
somerset		Same color and texture.
mills		If this is what that is... it doesn't make sense.  It doesn't figure.
somerset		Always look for one thing to focus on. There's always one singular thing, and it might be as small as a speck of dust, but find it and focus... till it's an exhausted possibility.
mills		How are pieces of the floor going to get in the guy's stomach?
somerset		Exactly.  Why would so many pieces be inside his stomach unless they were placed there intentionally?
mills		"Dear Detectives.  Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to the light."  This is not good.
somerset		Milton.
mills		What?
somerset		It's a quote from a book.  Milton's Paradise Lost.
detective		I said to myself, I'm not going to screw around with this.  Nope.  Fuck that. It's still pretty fresh meat.  I called the medical examiner... he's coming.  When I got to it, I knew.  As soon as I laid eyes on it, I knew...
mills		 A pound of flesh.
somerset		 "One pound of flesh, no more no less. No cartilage, no bone, but only flesh. This task done, and he would go free."
captain		What is the point, Somerset?
somerset		Look at both killings together.  This murderer is an artist.
captain		An artist?
somerset		He uses colors and symbols.  He positions the bodies after death, so he's working with composition.  It's been premeditated so meticulously... and this is just the beginning.
captain		Wrong.  For all we know, we might never hear from him again, and I don't want that kind of talk floating around.
somerset		The rats and the pennies.  The circle and the triangle on the wall.  There's something about them... these murders mean something.
captain		So?  What?
mills		This is his stuff, captain.  I've been out in the cold most of the day.
captain		 Always working overtime up in that big brain of yours, huh?  Always cooking.
somerset		I need you to know... I want us reassigned.  We're declining this case.
mills		 What?!
captain		What the hell are you talking about?
somerset		This cannot be my last duty here.  It's going to go on and on.
captain		You've left unfinished business before.
somerset		Everything else was taken as close to a conclusion as humanly possible.
mills		Can I just say something?
somerset		Also... I don't think this should be Mills' first case.
mills		This is not my first case, fuckhead!
captain		I don't have anyone else to give this to, Somerset.  And nobody's going to swap with you.
mills		Give it to me, then.  There's nothing that says I have to fly with him.
somerset		It would be too much for him, too soon.
mills		 Could we talk about this in private?
captain		That's not necessary.  You're in.
mills		Thank you, sir.
captain		Start picking up the pieces.  I'll shuffle some paper and try to get you a new partner.
workman		Sorry.
captain		What are you going to do with yourself out there, Somerset?
somerset		I'll get a job.  Maybe on a farm.  I'll fix up my house.
captain		Can't you feel it yet?  Can't you feel that feeling... that you won't be special anymore?
somerset		 I don't know what you mean.
captain		You know.
somerset		Did you read in the paper today, about the man who took his dog for a walk? And how he was mugged?  And, his wallet was taken, and his watch.  Then, while he was still lying unconscious, his attacker stabbed him with a knife in both eyes.  It happened last night.  Not far from here.
captain		I heard.
somerset		I have no understanding of this place.
captain		It's always been like this.
somerset		Yes.  You're absolutely right.
captain		You were made for this work, Somerset. I can't believe you're going to trade it all in for a tool belt and a fishing rod.  But, I guess I'm wrong.
somerset		 Put a little elbow grease into it!
mills		He must have left us another puzzle to solve... somewhere.
chris		We'll keep looking, but we're running out of possibilities.
mills		Christ...
vagrant		Spare me a cigarette, money-grip?  Spare me a cigarette?
somerset		Sorry.  Last one.
mills		 You tell 'em boss.  Detective David Mills is a wonderful human being...
william		I always figured that's the only reason you and I used to be friends.  Because I was a friend of hers.
somerset		How is she?  Have you seen her recently?
william		Huh... oh.  No.  She moved out of the city.  Last winter.  She married some businessman, or something like that.
somerset		Good for her.  I'm leaving soon myself.  I'm finally getting out.
william		Yeah?  What happened to the idealistic super-cop I used to know?
somerset		He became a realist.
william		Oh... sorry.
somerset		 Not that I don't appreciate your recent artistic endeavors... but, what happened to the painter I used to know?
william		I can't remember.
william		Man... can I buy these from you?
somerset		They're not for sale.
william		 Wait a minute...
somerset		Where?
william		It's church stuff.  Christianity.
william		Amen, brother.
somerset		And, it's two down... five to go.
preacher		...are you, Sir?  Is Jesus Christ your Lord and Master?  Do you believe in Him?
john		 Leave me alone.
preacher		Think about God, sir.  I can help you let Him into your life.
barker		Interesting isn't it, friend?  You like that, you like girls, then come on in.
tracy		Can I help you?
somerset		Uh... I was looking for Mills.  David, I mean.
tracy		He's not here right now.
somerset		Mrs. Mills, my name is Somerset.  If I could leave these books for him.
tracy		 Please, come in.
tracy		David went for a walk.  To clear his head.  Oh, you can put those here.
somerset		Thank you.
tracy		Would you like some coffee, or a drink. David should be back any minute.
somerset		I do have to get going.
tracy		At least I got to meet you.  David has told me a lot about you.
somerset		Really?  Good things, I hope.
tracy		Oh, yes.  He said you were very smart.
somerset		Really?
tracy		I think he's a bit intimidated by you.
somerset		I'm going to leave him a list of specifics.  It all relates to the case he's on.
tracy		You two aren't working together anymore. Isn't that so?
somerset		To be perfectly honest, Mrs. Mills...
tracy		Tracy.
somerset		Tracy.  David and I weren't exactly what you could call fast friends.
tracy		That's too bad.
somerset		I doubt your husband shares that opinion.
tracy		You know, Somerset, David is very... determined.  I'm sure you've seen, it's not likely he'll ever be compared to Gandhi.
somerset		He's a good cop.  He just...
tracy		He sees policework as a crusade.  That's what he wants it to be, and, that might sound naive, but he's made a conscious choice to be naive.  Believe me, his heart's in the right place.
somerset		I hear you and he were high school sweethearts.
tracy		Yeah.  Pretty hokey, huh?  But, what girl wouldn't want the captain of the football team as their lifelong mate?
somerset		It's rare these days... that kind of commitment.
tracy		I guess so.
somerset		Well... this will only take a minute.
tracy		Take your time.
somerset		My future.
tracy		You have a strange way about you, Somerset... I mean in a good way... unusual.
somerset		 Well!  I guess I won't be showing this to him then.
tracy		I suppose not.
mills		Fucking Dante.  Goddamn, poetry writing freak, mother-fuck...
somerset		How's it coming?
mills		Great.
somerset		It's your name on the door.
mills		 What... why?  Okay... okay.  Hold on.
somerset		 Well, I guess I'd be delighted to. Thank you... goodbye.
mills		Well?
somerset		I'm invited to have a late supper with you and your wife.  And I accept.
mills		How's that?
somerset		 Tonight.
tracy		Why aren't you married, Somerset?
mills		Tracy.  What the hell?
somerset		I was close.  It just didn't happen.
tracy		It surprises me you're not married.  It really does.
somerset		Any person who spends a significant amount of time with me finds me... disagreeable.  Just ask your husband.
mills		No argument.
tracy		 How long have you lived here?
somerset		Too long.  Much too long.  What do you think of our fair city?
tracy		You take the bad with the good, I suppose.  It's... it's...
mills		It takes time to settle in.
somerset		 You'll get used to it pretty quickly. There are things in any big city that stand out at first.  But...
tracy		Subway train.  It's right below us/
mills		 This real estate guy... a real scum, brought us to see this place a few times.  And, it was nice enough, and the price was right.  I was thinking it was nothing, but I started to notice, he kept hurrying us along.  I mean what could it be?  Why would he only show it like five minutes at a time, before he'd hustle us out the door?
tracy		We found out the first night.
somerset		I'm sorry... it's a nice apartment.
mills		 Oh, fuck.
somerset		All television does is teach children that it's really cool to be stupid and eat candy bars all day.
tracy		I don't think I've ever met anyone who didn't have a television.
mills		That's weird.  It's un-American.
somerset		What about them?
mills		You go to movies at least.
somerset		I read.  Remember reading?  What's the last book you read, Mills?
mills		T.V. Guide.
somerset		I vaguely recall Wilma, and someone named... Dino.
mills		We think he acted like he was delivering a package.  The doorman at Mr. Gold's building says he doesn't even look at anyone who goes in anymore.
somerset		No connection between the two victims?
mills		None.  Which I can't understand.  It's like this guy's invisible.
somerset		In this city, minding your own business is a perfected science.
mills		Which saint is he?
somerset		Aquinas wrote a summary of theology, Summa Theologica.  And he wrote about the seven deadly sins.
mills		Look, I appreciate being able to talk this out, but... it's my case.
somerset		So... satisfying my curiosity.  I'm still leaving town on Sunday.
mills		The eyes were circled.  With Mr. Gold's blood.
somerset		This is his wife?
mills		 She was away on business.  She got back the day he was killed.  If this means she saw anything, I don't know what. We've questioned her about ten times.
somerset		And, if it's a threat?
mills		We put her in a safe house.
somerset		This is the one thing.
mills		I know.
somerset		It's like he's preaching.  The sins were used in medieval sermons. There were seven cardinal virtues, and then seven deadly sins, as a learning tool.  The sins distract man from true worship.  True faith.
mills		Like in these paintings, and in Dante's Purgatory, right?  But, in Purgatory, Dante and his buddy climb that big mountain...
somerset		Seven Terraces of Purgation.
mills		Anyway... pride comes first, not gluttony.  And in all the paintings, the sins are in a different order.  I can't find a pattern.
somerset		Because there's creativity in the mix. Consider these books as the murderer's inspiration.  Or aspiration.
mills		He's punishing these people.
somerset		For all of us to see and learn from. These murders are like forced attrition.
mills		What?  Forced what?
somerset		Attrition.  When you regret your sins, but not because you love God.
mills		Because someone's holding a gun on you.
somerset		When Mr. Gold's wife found the body, about how long was she in the apartment?
mills		She didn't find it.  The door to the apartment was open and a neighbor...
somerset		I thought you said she found the body. When she got back from a business trip.
mills		No.  She got back after you and I had already been there.
somerset		Maybe she is supposed to see something... she just hasn't had a chance to see it yet.
mills		Please, look for anything strange or out of place.  Anything at all.
mrs gold		I... I don't understand.  Why now?
mills		I need your help if we're going to get the guy who killed your husband.  If there's anything in these pictures...
mrs gold		I don't see anything.
mills		Are you absolutely sure?
mrs gold		I can't do this now... please.
mills		He's punishing these people.
somerset		For all of us to see and learn from. These murders are like forced attrition.
mills		What?  Forced what?
somerset		Attrition.  When you regret your sins, but not because you love God.
mills		Because someone's holding a gun on you.
somerset		When Mr. Gold's wife found the body, about how long was she in the apartment?
mills		She didn't find it.  The door to the apartment was open and a neighbor...
somerset		I thought you said she found the body. When she got back from a business trip.
mills		No.  She got back after you and I had already been there.
somerset		Maybe she is supposed to see something... she just hasn't had a chance to see it yet.
mills		Please, look for anything strange or out of place.  Anything at all.
mrs gold		I... I don't understand.  Why now?
mills		I need your help if we're going to get the guy who killed your husband.  If there's anything in these pictures...
mrs gold		I don't see anything.
mills		Are you absolutely sure?
mrs gold		I can't do this now... please.
mills		We have to show her those.  There might be something she's missing.
somerset		Have her look one last time.
mrs gold		Wait.  Here... here's something...
mills		What is it?
mrs gold		This painting... in the living room...
mills		What?
mrs gold		Why is it hanging upside-down?
mills		Nothing.
somerset		This has got to be it.
mills		It's nothing.
somerset		Bear with me.
mills		 Oh, yeah, sure.  You got to be kidding.
somerset		Shut up and wait!
forensic		Oh, boy...
somerset		No.  I have not.
somerset		It doesn't work for me.  I can't believe he wants us to help him stop.
mills		Who the hell knows?  There's plenty of schizoids out there doing dirty deeds they don't want to do.  With tiny voices whispering nasty things in their ears.
technician		I've seen this baby take three days to finish a cycle, so you guys can go cross your fingers somewhere else.
somerset		You really meant what you said to Mrs. Gold.  You really believe we'll get him, don't you?
mills		And you don't?
somerset		I wish I still thought like you.  I'm so far gone from that.
mills		So, tell me what you think we're doing.
somerset		All we do is pick up the pieces.  We take all the evidence... all the pictures, statements.  Write everything down and note what time things happened. We take it all, make a nice, neat pile and file it away.  Just in case it's ever needed in a courtroom.
mills		You're unbelievable.  In my entire life, you're the oldest man I've ever met.
somerset		I've seen even the most promising clues lead to dead ends.  Hundreds of times.
mills		I've seen the same.  I'm not the country hick-boy you seem to think I am.
somerset		In this city, if all the skeletons came out of all the closets... if every un- revenged corpse were to suddenly rise and walk again, there would be no more room for the living.
mills		Don't try to tell me you didn't get that rush tonight... that adrenalin.  Like we were getting somewhere.  And, don't try to tell me it was because you thought we found something that would play well in a courtroom.
captain		Wake up, Glimmer Twins.  We have a winner.
captain		His street name is Zero, as some of you know.  His prints were found at the scene by Detectives Mills and Somerset.
female cop		If he disappeared, what do you want from us?
captain		His last place of residence is still in his name.  A search warrant is being pushed through the court as we speak.
california		So, have the housing cops walk up and ring the doorbell.  Problem solved.
captain		Listen, California.  When you go in, if Zero isn't home, some of his buddies might be house-sitting.  And besides using, Zero deals, so, you will be very uninvited guests.
somerset		Does not seem like our killer, does it?
mills		You tell me.  I'm new in town.
somerset		Zero does possess the requisite degree of insanity... but, he doesn't have the desire somehow.  Our killer seems to have more purpose.  More purpose than Zero could ever conceive of.
mills		We'll tag along.
somerset		Why would we?
mills		Satisfy our curiosity?
mills		You ever take one?
somerset		No.  Never in twenty-four years.  I took my gun out only five times with the actual intention of using it.  I never fired it.  Not once.
mills		I pulled it once, fired it once.  I never took a bullet.
somerset		And?
mills		It was my first one of these.  We were a secondary unit, in vice.  I was pretty shaky going in.  When we busted the door, looking for a junkie, the fucking guy opened fire.  One cop was hit in the arm.  He went flying... like in slow motion.  I remember riding in the ambulance.  His arm was like... a piece of meat.  I thought, it's just his arm.  But, he bled to death right there anyway.
somerset		How did the fire-fight end?
mills		Well, I was doing really good in Philly up till then.  Lots of simple busts. I've always had this weird luck... but, this was wild.  I got that fuck with one shot... right between the eyes.  And the next week, the mayor's pinning a medal on me. Picture in the paper, the whole nine yards.
somerset		How was it?
mills		I expected it to be bad, because I heard about other guys.  You know... I took a human life.  But, I slept like a baby that night.
somerset		I think Hemingway wrote somewhere... I can't remember where, but he wrote that, in order to live in a city, you have to have the ability to kill.  I think he meant you truly must be able to do it, not just faking it, to survive.
mills		Sounds like he knew what he was talking about.
california		 This is it.  Give it up.
california		Good morning, Sweetheart!
mills		Get up now, motherfucker!  Now!
mills		I said get up, Sleepyhead!
california		Oh, fuck me!
mills		Holy shit.
somerset		Sloth... it's sloth.
black cop		What the hell... those are dead worms.
california		 Check this out, dick.
mills		It's him.  It's Zero.
somerset		Someone call an ambulance.
california		Someone call a hearse, more like.
blond cop		What the fuck is going on?
mills		Hey, California.  Get your people out.
california		You heard him.  Hit the hall, and don't touch anything.
mills		Somerset, you... you better look here.
somerset		 The first photo... it's dated one year ago.  Almost to the day.
california		Mo-ther...
mills		What's this?
california		You got what you deserved, Zero.
mills		A urine sample... hair sample... fingernail clippings.  He's laughing at us.
california		He's alive!
california		He's still alive!
somerset		The way this has gone, I didn't think it was possible, but we may have underestimated this guy.  The type of intestinal fortitude it must take... to keep a man bound for a full year.  To sever his hand and use it to plant fingerprints.
mills		I want him bad.  I don't just want to catch him anymore.  I want to hurt him.
somerset		Listen... we have to divorce ourselves from our emotions here.  We have to keep focusing on the small details.
mills		I don't know about you, Somerset, but I feed off my emotions.
somerset		He'll string us along all the way if we're not careful.
mills		I hear you.
john		Say cheese.
mills		What the fuck are you doing?
john		I have a right, Officer.  I...
mills		That doesn't mean anything.  This is a closed crime scene now!
john		You can't do this!  You can't...
mills		Get the fuck out of here!
mills		How do those cockroaches get here so quick?
somerset		They pay cops for the inside scoop, and they pay well.  You can hate them, but you better give them something, or they'll make it all up.
mills		 I'm sorry... I just...
somerset		Oh, it's alright.  It's always impressive to see a man feeding off his emotions.
beardsley		A year of immobility seems about right, judging by the deterioration of the muscles and spinal cord.  Blood tests show a whole smorgasbord of drugs in his system.  Heroin... crack... even an antibiotic which was administered to keep the bed sores from infecting.
mills		He hasn't said anything, or tried to express himself in any way?
beardsley		Even if his brain were not mush, which it is... he chewed his own tongue off a long time ago.
mills		There's no way he'll survive?
beardsley		Detective, he'd die right now of shock if you were to shine a flashlight in his eyes.
bleeker		Put them away.  I wish you hadn't brought them into the church.
somerset		I needed for you to see them.
bleeker		There were five principal phases in the development of early Christian art. From Hellenistic through the Renaissance... each period was affected by the decrees of religious leaders.
somerset		If this killer belongs to a certain branch of the church... if he collects religious art from a certain period, I want to know.  I have to narrow it down.
bleeker		The influences on these... things he's done, couldn't have come before the Gothic period.  What's in those pictures is presented far too asymmetrically.
bleeker		So, if this murderer is as precise as you say, then you need to find out at what period in history was gluttony green... and so on.
somerset		Where do I look?  If the colors changed so often?
bleeker		 I haven't heard from him for quite some time.  This was his passion.  He spent his life studying the sins... and preaching against them.
officer		Zero's landlord said an envelope of cash was in the office mailbox each month. He says, quote, "I never heard a single complaint from this guy and nobody ever complained about him.  He's the best tenant I ever had."
mills		There's a landlord's dream tenant.  A paralyzed man with no tongue.
officer		Who pays his rent on time.
mills		Bring me everything as soon as it's transcribed.
mills		 Milton.
bleeker		Father Stone had a church and congregation of his own.  But, he... there were some problems.  The church is deserted now.
somerset		Problems?
bleeker		There was a small orphanage attached to the church, overseen by Father Stone. This was almost thirty years ago.  He was an excellent priest, devoted in every way.  Many in his parish demanded his return.
somerset		Tell me what happened.
bleeker		Allegations were made... Stone was accused of abusing the children in his care.  But, those charges were never substantiated.
somerset		What abuse?
bleeker		It was claimed... that the children were beaten.  And, punished severely.
somerset		Father Stone.  I'm a policeman.  I'd like to ask you a few questions, if it's alright?
stone		The sins.
somerset		Yes, father.
stone		Are you one of mine?
somerset		I don't...
stone		Are you saved?  Do you have God?
somerset		I... I need to ask about the sins.  Do you understand what I'm saying?
stone		Are you a sinner?
nun		 They shouldn't have let you disturb him. This shouldn't have been allowed.
stone		Where are the children?  Where are the children?!
bleeker		What are you looking for?
somerset		I'm just looking.
bleeker		Saint Jerome Emiliani.  The patron saint of orphans.
somerset		Is this still the Lord's house?
bleeker		Of course it is.
somerset		And, even if Father Stone was guilty of everything... if he was hurting children here?  It's still the Lord's house?
bleeker		You have no faith, Somerset?  Have you given up on the church entirely?
somerset		No.  That's not what I've given up on.
mills		Our guy's a bookworm, right?  And, I know it's a long shot, but you have to give a picture id and current phone bill to get a library card.  Hey...
somerset		So, what is this?
mills		Alright.  Everything at the library goes into a computer.  So, you can get in the system and cross-reference...
somerset		Dario!  Come here.
dario		I got it.
somerset		Get a list of every child who attended this orphanage before it shut down.  Get it on my desk within the hour.
mills		Yeah.  Is that so hard for you to believe?
somerset		It's a pleasant surprise.
mills		I'm not as stupid as I look.
somerset		 I guess not.
mills		Okay, here we go.  Listen to the books this guy's been taking out...  Of Human Bondage.
somerset		That's not what you think it is.
mills		Holy shit.  Somerset...  The Writings of Saint Thomas Aquinas.
somerset		That's right.  Let me have it.
mills		Fuck... he used a false name.
somerset		How do you know?
mills		His library card lists him as Jonathan Doe.  John Doe.
somerset		Christ... it's like a sick joke.
mills		What are you talking about?
somerset		There is one boy here.  He was abandoned... no one knew who his parents were, so he was named at the orphanage...  John Doe.  It's his legal name.
mills		It's impossible odds that this is him.
somerset		We're focusing.
mills		I know, I know.  On one little thing. I'm not complaining.  I'll follow anything we get and I'll take it any way we can get it.
somerset		We'll look at him.  Ask a few questions. Try to get a feeling whether we should keep tabs on him.
mills		 I'll do the talking, right?  Let me practice here... um, excuse me Mr. Doe, but, are you by any chance a serial killer?  Oh... oh, you are?  Well, come with us then, if you don't mind.
mills		Are you alright?  Are you okay?
somerset		Yeah.  I think so.
one forensic		I hear he's running around with an uzi in one hand and a book of poetry in the other.
cop		A real, modern-day renaissance man, huh?
mills		 Give us first crack at it.
somerset		Jesus Christ.
somerset		I know.
sketch artist		This is the guy?
mills		Make sure it gets around.
sketch artist		You got it.  Tomorrow morning, this city's good citizens will be on the lookout for Elmer Fudd.
sarah		 We can't find anything to hang onto.  No pay-stubs, no appointment books or calendars.  Not even a book of phone numbers.  And, you're not going to believe this...
mills		Keep looking.
sara		It's just... we haven't found any fingerprints yet.  Not one.
mills		You know, you're right.  I don't believe it.  Keep looking.
somerset		We need to put more men on this.
mills		I'm working on it, alright.  What have we got.
somerset		We've got about five thousand notebooks in this room.  And, as near as I can tell, each notebook contains two hundred and fifty pages.
mills		Then, he must write about the murders.
somerset		"What sick, silly puppets we are, and what a gross stage we dance on.  What fun we have, dancing around, not a care in the world.  Not knowing that we are nothing.  We are not what God intended."  No dates indicated.  They're placed on the shelves in no discernible order.  He describes a scab on his arm for five pages, then writes about existential philosophy on the next.
mills		You were right.  He is preaching.
mills		 Hello... hello?
mills		 Okay, John.  Let's...
mills		Pride.  Just like in the painting.
somerset		You can see what he did.
mills		Cut her up... dressed the wounds.  He put the noose around her neck and stood her on the chair.
somerset		She had the telephone.
mills		Call for help, and you'll live.  But, you'll be mutilated.
somerset		Or, kick out the chair, and spare yourself a lifetime of hideousness.
captain		Alright, boys, you're running on empty. Go home.  Just make sure you sleep with the phone between your knees.
somerset		Tracy?
tracy		Somerset.  How are you?
somerset		I'm alright.  I'm glad to see you found this place.  I almost should have expected to run into you here, knowing that you teach English.
tracy		It's so huge.  It's amazing.
somerset		This is why I moved into this neighborhood.
tracy		Don't you love the smell of all the old books.  It smells like... like... I guess just old books, but, I love it.
somerset		Same here.
tracy		If David's going to be back home soon, I should get back.
somerset		You can stay and browse a little longer, can't you?  I mean...
tracy		Sounds like a father who wanted his son to follow in his footsteps.
somerset		One birthday, he gave me a hardcover book called The Century of the Detective, by Jurgen Thorwald.  It traced the history of detection as a science and it sealed my fate.  Because it was real, and that a drop of blood or a piece of hair could solve a crime... was incredible to me.
somerset		Okay, thanks.
tracy		David's going to wonder where I am.
somerset		I'll give you a ride.
tracy		No.  Please, don't bother.
somerset		I have to insist.  If your husband found out I let you ride the subway at this hour he'd tear my head off.
tracy		You've lived here for so long, Somerset. You know this city.  I...
somerset		It's a hard place, Tracy.
tracy		When David and I lived in Philadelphia, we could afford to live on the outskirts.  But now...  I hate it here.  I feel scared, and I feel sick and... I hate it.
somerset		You have to put blinders on sometimes. Most times.  But, keep in mind, Tracy, like tonight, there are small pockets of sanity.  Some bars and bookstores. Museums.  Several last vestiges of civilization.
tracy		I've visited so many of the schools, looking for work, you know.  And, the conditions are... horrible.  I can't believe how bad it is.  Children shouldn't have to grow up here.
somerset		You can always look into the private schools.  You'll find something.
tracy		Oh, God, yes.  Please.
somerset		I can't think of another place that needs education more than this city. And you're a teacher.  You can make a difference in a few people's lives. It's a very good thing.
tracy		Goodnight, Somerset.
somerset		Goodnight.
tracy		I... I better go.
mills		It won't be for long, honey.  I swear. This is just till this is over.
tracy		I know.
mills		I'm sorry.
tracy		I know.  It can't be helped.
mills		There's two people in that painting. So, maybe he's planning to kill two people this time.  Maybe.
somerset		Nothing.  Sorry.
mills		Lust is next.  Lust is sex.
somerset		Apples on the floor.  Original sin.
mills		Adam and Eve.
somerset		Lust is everywhere.  That's the hard part.  I think lust is the most prevalent sin, even more than greed.
mills		Lust is red.
somerset		Bright red.
mills		Blood red.
somerset		Red sky at night, sailor's delight.
mills		Red blooded.  Red head.  Dead.
somerset		Red light district.
mills		That would make sense.
somerset		It would be fitting.
mills		You're damn right it would.
mills		It was definitely him?  You're positive?
wild bill		Yeah.  John Doe.  Easy name to remember.
somerset		What was this job you did for him?
wild bill		I got a picture of it.  That's what he came for this morning.  I figured he must be one of those art guys... like those guys who piss in a cup and drink it on stage.  Performance art.
mills		Oh, fuck...
wild bill		I think I undercharged him.  I was up all night working to finish it.
somerset		 You built this for him?  You built this?
wild bill		I've built weirder shit than that.
policeman		Somerset... we have a situation.
wild bill		Hey, my picture!
fat man		Just wait!
cop		Get out of the fucking booth!
fat man		Just wait!  I'll come out, just wait!
cop		I don't want to go in there again.
crazed man		He... he... he made me do it!
second attendant		I have to look at you.  I have to look at you.
first attendant		You're not going to want to see this more than once.
crazed man		He had a gun!  He... he made me do it!
crazed man		And... and... and he said... he asked if I was married.  And, I could see he had a gun in his hand.
somerset		Where was the girl?
crazed man		What?  What?
somerset		Where was the prostitute?
crazed man		She was... she was on the bed.  She was just sitting on the bed.
somerset		Who tied her down?  You or him?
crazed man		He had a gun.  He had a gun, and he made it happen.  He made me do it! He made me put it on... that thing.  Oh, God... he made me wear it.  He had the gun in my mouth.
somerset		There's not going to be a happy ending. It's not possible.
mills		If we get him, I'll be happy enough.
somerset		No.  Face it now.  Stop thinking it's good guys against the bad guys in this city.
mills		How can you say that?  Especially after today?
somerset		You tell me... when you walk into an apartment, and a man has beaten his wife to death, or, a wife murdered her husband in cold blood... and you have to wash the blood off their children.  You put the killer in jail.  Who won?
mills		If I thought like you, I'd have slit my wrists a long time ago.
somerset		Where's the victory?
mills		You do your job.  Follow the law and do the best you can.  It's all there.
somerset		If we caught John Doe tomorrow, and it turned out he was the devil... if it turned out he was literally Satan, then, that might live up to our expectations. No human being could do these horrible things, right?!  But, this is not the devil.  It's only a man.
mills		Why don't you shut the fuck up for a while?!  Huh?  You make these speeches... like you know everything there is to know.
somerset		Who are you fighting for?  People don't want a champion.  They just want to keep playing the lottery and eating hamburgers.
mills		What the fuck is wrong with you, huh? What burnt you out?
somerset		There's no one thing, if that's what you mean.  I just... I can't live anymore where stupidity is embraced and nurtured as if it were a virtue.
mills		You're so much better than everyone, right?  No one's worthy of you.
somerset		Wrong!  I sympathize completely. Because if you can't win... then, if you don't ignore everything and everyone around you, you go insane.  It's easier to smoke crack, and not worry that your wife and kids are starving to death. And, it's so much easier to bear a child till that child finally shuts up, because it takes so much work to love. And, if you bothered to think about the abuse, and the damage, you'd be sad.
mills		You're talking about people who are mentally ill.  You're...
somerset		 No, I am not!  I'm talking about common, everyday life here.  Where Ignorance isn't bliss, it's a matter of survival.
mills		Listen to yourself.  You say, "the problem with people is they don't care, so I don't care about people."  But, if you're not part of the solution...
somerset		 People who are in arguments over their heads always use meaningless slogans. But, life doesn't conform to analogies.
mills		You're already here, and you've been here a long time.  So, there's a part of you that knows, even if everything you say is true, none of it matters.
somerset		That part of me is dead.
mills		Fuck you.  You want me to agree with you.  "Yeah, you're right, Somerset, this place is fucked.  Let's go live in a fucking log cabin!"  Well, I don't agree with you.  You're quitting, and it makes me sick.  Cause, you're the best I've ever seen.
tracy		David?
mills		I love you.
tracy		David?
mills		I love you.
somerset		 Hello.
somerset		Is everything alright?
somerset		 I don't think that's a good idea.
somerset		David doesn't know about this?  You haven't told him?
tracy		I just can't think straight.  I don't know why I called you, except I can't stand to hold it as a secret anymore.  I had to get it out... and I can't tell David yet.  Not yet.
somerset		I... I had a relationship once, very much like a marriage.  And, there was a baby.  A long time ago.  Things were good.  And I got up one morning, and I went on a case... a murder, like any other.  Except it was my first since hearing about the baby.  And, I felt this fear and anxiety coming over me.  I looked around and I thought, how can I raise a child here?  So, that night, I told her I didn't want us to have children,  And, over the next few weeks... I convinced her...
tracy		I want to have children.  But...
somerset		I can tell you, I know... I'm positive I made the right decision.  I'm positive it was the right thing to do.  But, there's never a day that goes by that I don't wish I had decided differently.
tracy		Somerset...
somerset		That's all the wisdom I can share with you, Tracy.  I barely know you.
tracy		Will I see you again, before you leave?
somerset		Probably not.  But, it's probably better that way.
somerset		I've decided... I want to stay on, till this is over.  Till either it's done, or we can see it will never end.
mills		Oh, you want to stay now?
somerset		One of two things is going to happen. We're either going to get John Doe... or, he will finish his series of seven, and he'll never be found.
mills		You think if you stay you're doing me some big favor?
somerset		I'm requesting you keep me on as your partner a few more days.  You'd be doing me the favor.
mills		You knew I'd say yes.
somerset		No.  I wasn't sure at all.
somerset		As soon as this is over, I'll be gone.
mills		What a great big surprise that is.
sergeant		Wonder-fucking-ful.
uniformed cop		It's him!
mills		Get down on the floor.
somerset		Be careful!
another cop		You heard him!  Get on the floor!
one cop		Spread your legs and get your hands out in front of you.
mills		Get down!  Face down!
somerset		I don't believe it.
john doe		Hello, Lieutenant Somerset.
cop		What the hell is this?
john doe		I want to speak with my lawyer.
captain		He cuts off the skin of his fingertips. That's why we can't find a single usable print in his apartment.  For a long time, he's been cutting before the papillary lines can grow back.
mills		What about the trace on his bank account?  The guns?
captain		The orphanage is all we have.  His bank account is only five years old and it started as cash.  There's no credit history, no employment history.  We even tried to trace his furniture.  All we know for sure is he's wealthy, well educated and totally insane.  We may never know how he got that way.
somerset		Because he is John Doe, by choice.
mills		When do we get to question him?
captain		You don't.  This goes to court now.
mills		This doesn't make sense, captain.  He wouldn't just turn himself in!
captain		Well, there he sits.  It's not supposed to make sense.
mills		He's not finished!
captain		You're wound way too tight on this, Mills.
mills		Somerset... help me out here.
captain		It's over.
mills		Damn it, Somerset.  You know Johnny's fucking with us.  He's pissing in our faces again!
somerset		Slow up.  You and I are, probably for the first time ever, in total agreement. He wouldn't just stop.
mills		Well... what the fuck, man?
somerset		John Doe's only two murders away from finishing his masterpiece, right?  But, can you even conceive of what might happen next?  I mean, can you tell me how he's going to go about it?
mills		 No.
somerset		I can tell you this; I recognize his lawyer.  His name is Mark Swarr.  He's the one who kept Zero out of prison.  We'll wait for John Doe's plea.
swarr		My client says there are two more bodies... two more dead, hidden away. He will take Detective Mills to these bodies, but only Detective Mills.  Only at six o'clock, today.
talbot		Oh, Christ.
mills		Why me?
swarr		He says he admires you.
somerset		 This is all part of his game plan.
swarr		Mr. Doe claims that if the detective does not accept this offer, the bodies will never be found.
captain		Frankly, counselor, I'm inclined to let them rot.
mills		You like what you do for a living?
captain		Back off, Mills.
swarr		I'm required by law to serve my clients to the best of my ability, and to serve their interests.
talbot		We don't make deals like this.
captain		We're going to have to pass.
swarr		My client... he also wishes that I inform you, if you do not accept, he will plead insanity, across the board.
talbot		Let him try.  I'd like to see him try!
swarr		Come now, Martin.  Even he knows, with the nature of these crimes, I could get him off with such a plea.
talbot		I'm not letting this conviction slide. I can tell you that, right here and right now!
swarr		He says, if you accept, under his specific conditions, he will sign a full confession and plead guilty... right here, and right now.
mills		I'll do it.
somerset		Hold on... just a minute.
swarr		And, my client reminds you, two more people are dead.  The press would have a field day if they found out the police didn't seem too concerned about finding them... giving them proper burial.
mills		I'll do it.  I want to finish it.
somerset		 Well... let's get the fucking lawyer out of the room, and we can talk about how this whole thing's going to go down.
somerset		If John Doe's head splits open, and a U.F.O. flies out, I want you to have expected it.
mills		I will.
somerset		No emotion.  Stay as cold as ice.
mills		I will.
somerset		What is it?
mills		I would like to make sweet love to you.
somerset		Please...
mills		Give me a kiss on the lips.
somerset		Give me a break.
somerset		Ready?
mills		Extremely.
california		Is this wind going to hurt us?
pilot		Just makes the ride a little more fun.
mills		What's your story, Johnny?  Who are you, really?
john doe		It doesn't matter who I am.  Who I am means absolutely nothing.
somerset		I'm here.
somerset		If we're on the bridge, you keep your distance.  You hear me?
california		You got it.
mills		Wouldn't be sensational enough.
john doe		Wanting people to pay attention, you can't just tap them on the shoulder.
mills		What are you looking at, Johnny?
john doe		Looking back... at the city proper...
mills		I remember a lot of people reading it at me when I was a kid.  I preferred the classic comic version myself.
john doe		You make me sick.
mills		Sit back, freak.
john doe		 Ignorant heathen.
mills		Right, right.  I forgot.  You think these murders were for God.  Right?  I'm asking you seriously.  You really think what you did was God's good work?
john doe		The Lord works in mysterious ways.
somerset		 A quick sweep is all we get.  Clear out now.  You're right in front of us.
mills		Jesus Christ, Superstar... who in the world do you think you are?  Jesus Christ, Superstar...
somerset		 You stay out of this unless I call you in, California.  Understand?
mills		Lean on your side.  Hands behind your head and lock your fingers together.
john doe		It's right this way.
mills		So far, so good.
john doe		In here.
mills		You go first.
mills		I'll blow your head off right now!
mills		He's gone, Somerset!  He's in the water!
california		Somerset, what's going on down there?!
mills		Come on, Johnny!  I'm right here!
somerset		Mills!
california		God damn it!  Let's do something!
pilot		Somerset said wait!
california		Fuck that!  Let's go!
pilot		Where?
california		I don't know!  Just go!
mills		Come on!  Let's do it!  You and me!
somerset		Christ.
somerset		Mills!  Pull out!
somerset		Where's David?
somerset		Tell me what you want.
john doe		What do I want?  The same you... I want an ending.  Stay where you are.  Put your gun on the floor and slide it all the way down here.
somerset		I want to see him.  Show me Mills.
john doe		You're an intelligent man, Somerset. You understand what you're a part of, don't you?  When this is finished, it will seem surreal, but it will be a whole, crystalline reality.  And, no one will be able to deny it, no matter how hard they try.
somerset		You're a murderer.  That's all.  The only way you've distinguished yourself is by your particular brutality.
john doe		You know that's not true.  You know.
somerset		You're killing innocent people, and I should admire you?  You're doing it because it gives you pleasure.  That's the only purpose... your sick pleasure.
john doe		Stay where you are!
somerset		All you've done is cause more misery and pain!  You've given people all the more reason to believe there is no God!
john doe		Stop!
mills		Somerset?
somerset		Do you really think I'm just going to let this happen?!  You think I'm going to let him die?
john doe		Yes.
mills		Motherfucker!
john doe		How can you speak of God, Somerset? When was the last time you spoke His name?
mills		I'm going to kill you, Johnny.  I'm going to see you dead.
john doe		The irony, David, is that you policemen and I want the same things.  But, you are so short sighted.  In this city, where you can see a deadly sin on every street corner... and in every home, we want repentance.
somerset		 Let him go, God damn you.
john doe		There were two men once, who had wonderful gardens.  Two gardens of flowers that went on as far as the eye could see.  Beautiful gardens... the fragrance was inspiration in itself.
mills		Fuck you!
john doe		The other man plowed his garden under.  He plowed it under the soil.  He started over.
somerset		Alright... you don't have to do this, John.  You've already made your point.
john doe		Do you think I chose this?  Can you even begin to understand how painful my existence has been?  It's like... like having every sense heightened beyond comprehension.
somerset		You're insane.  That's why.
john doe		 No!  You're wrong!
somerset		Don't do this!
john doe		I meant what I said.  I admire David Mills.  I envy David Mills.  Envy is my sin.
somerset		No!
captain		I don't know if I should do this.  We found the motel room Doe must have been staying in after you found his apartment.
somerset		I wish I could say something...  Something to... I don't know...
tracy		I'll be okay.
somerset		We'll keep in touch.  I'll come visit.
tracy		I'll write to you when we get there.
somerset		Take care of yourself.  Take care of the baby.
mover		That's all, Mrs. Mills.  We got everything.
somerset		Goodbye, Tracy.
tracy		Goodbye, Somerset.
somerset		 Oh... man...
****Dialogues from script :Searchers.txt****

the searchers		 "THE SEARCHERS"  Revised Final Screenplay by  Frank Nugent
aaron		 Ethan?
ethan		Hello, Aaron...
ethan		Martha...
martha		 Hello, Ethan.
aaron		How's California?
ethan		How should I know?
aaron		But Mose Harper said...
ethan		That old goat still creakin' around?... Whyn't someone bury him?
ethan		Ben, ain't you?
ethan		 Lucy, you ain't much bigger than when I saw you last.
debbie		I'm Deborah!  She's Lucy.
martha		Lucy's going on seventeen now...
ben		An' she's got a beau! Kisses him, too!
martha		That's enough... Go on inside and help Lucy set the table... You, too, Deborah!
ethan		 MOMENTO!
martha		 Martin!... Here we've been standing... Ethan, you haven't forgotten Martin?
ethan		Oh... Mistook you for a half-breed.
martin		 Not quite... Quarter Cherokee. The rest is Welsh... So they tell me.
ethan		You've done a lot of growin'...
aaron		It was Ethan found you squallin' in a sage clump after your folks was massacred...
ethan		 It just happened to be me... No need to make any more of it...
martin		I'll take care of your horse for you, Uncle Ethan.
ethan		Hold on!
ethan		I'll take this...
martha		Supper'll be ready by the time you wash up... Let me take your coat for you, Ethan.
martha		 And... welcome home.
ethan		Good.
aaron		Ben! Deborah! Bed!
debbie		But I've got to help with the dishes.
martha		Not tonight... Ben, put that sword back.
ben		It's not a sword, ma... it's a saber!  Did you kill many damYankees with this sabre, Uncle Ethan?
ethan		 Some...
ben		How many damYankees, Uncle Ethan?
martha		Ben!... Martin, he'll sleep in the bunkhouse with you tonight.
martin		Good night, Aunt Martha... Uncle Aaron...  Good night, Uncle Ethan.
ethan		Night.
ben		Will you tell me tomorrow about the war?
aaron		The war ended three years ago, boy!
ben		It did?... Then whyn't you come home before now?
martha		BEN!... Go 'long with Martin. MARCH!
debbie		Lucy's wearing the gold locket you gave her when she was a little girl...
ethan		Oh?
debbie		She don't wear it much account of it makes her neck green.
lucy		 Deborah!
debbie		 Well, it does... But I wouldn't care if you gave me a gold locket if it made my neck green or not.
ethan		'Fraid I...  Wait.
ethan		How about this?
debbie		Oh! LOOK! My gold locket!
martha		It's solid gold... Ethan, I don't think she's old enough...
ethan		Let her keep it... Just something I picked up in Mexico.
debbie		Oh, thank you, Uncle Ethan...
lucy		 Come along...
ethan		Passed the Todd place comin' in... What happened to 'em?
aaron		They gave up... went back to the cotton rows... So'd the Jamisons... Without Martha, I don't know... She wouldn't let a man quit.
aaron		 You wanted to clear out!
aaron		And you stayed out beyond all need to... WHY?
ethan		 You askin' me to clear out now?
aaron		 You're my brother... You're welcome to stay as long as you got a mind to... Ain't that so, Martha?
martha		 Of course he is.
ethan		I expect to pay my own way...
ethan		There's sixty double eagles in there... twelve-hundred dollars.
ethan		An' twice that in here.
ethan		...only these got the late Emperor Maximilian's picture on 'em.
aaron		Mint fresh... not a mark on 'em.
ethan		So?
ethan		Cut yourself?
ethan		 You were always hurting about your hands.
aaron		Time for bed...
aaron		Night, Ethan... Come 'long, Martha.
sam's voice		Aaron! Open up!... Sam Clayton!
aaron		Reverend... Come in!
clayton		Sorry to get you out of bed so early...  Mornin', Sister Edwards.
martha		What is it, Reverend?
clayton		Lars Jorgensen claims someone bust into his corral last night and run off his best cows...
aaron		You mean those pure breds he just bought?
jorgensen		Next time I raise pigs, by golly! You never hear of anyone running off pigs, I bet you.
mose		Injuns has 'em... Caddoes or Kiowas... Kiowas or Caddoes.
clayton		 Caddoes!
mose		Respects to a charmin' lady, ma'am. ...Respects, respects...
nesby		Mornin'...
martha		Coffee's made if you...
clayton		Coffee'd be fine, sister...
mose		 My bones is cold...
jorgensen		Or bumble bees, by golly... I show them dirty rustlers!
mose		 Lookit me, old Mose Harper, rockin' in a rockin' chair... I'm a-goin' to set 'n rock, 'n rock, 'n rock, 'n rock...
clayton		Over here, Martin... Aaron...
clayton		Raise your right hands.
clayton		You are hereby volunteer privates in Company A of the Texas Rangers and will faithfully discharge the duties of same without recompense or monetary compensation -- meaning no pay!... Amen and get your shirt on, will you, Aaron.
aaron		 Ain't goin' volunteerin' after rustlers without my morning coffee, Reverend... Drink your own!
clayton		 From now on, call me 'Captain'!
ethan		 Captain the Reverend Samuel Johnson Clayton!... Mighty impressive.
clayton		 Well... the prodigal brother... When'd you get back?
clayton		Haven't seen you since the surrender.  Come to think of it, I didn't see you at the surrender.
ethan		I don't believe in surrenderin'... I still got my sabre, Reverend... never turned it into any ploughshare neither!
jorgensen		Is no time for kaffee-klatch while a man's beef is been run off.
mose		Injuns, Ethan...  Caddoes or Kiowas... Mose Harper, drinkin' coffee in a rockin' chair. ...ay-eh!
aaron		Ethan, countin' on you to look after things while I'm gone.
ethan		You ain't goin'...
clayton		He sure is goin'... He's sworn in.
ethan		 Well, swear him out again!... I'll go with you.
aaron		Now, Ethan, I ain't sure...
ethan		Don't argue!... And stay close... Maybe they're rustlers... and maybe this dodderin' old idiot ain't so far wrong...
mose		Thankin' ye, Ethan... thankin' ye. Kind words...
clayton		 All right... I'll swear you in...
ethan		You can forget that...  Wouldn't be legal anyway.
clayton		Why?  You wanted for a crime, Ethan?
ethan		You askin' as a Reverend or a Captain, Sam?
clayton		I'm askin' as a Ranger of the sovereign state of Texas.
ethan		Got a warrant?
clayton		You fit a lot of descriptions.
ethan		 So did you, Reverend...
ethan		Stick close, Aaron...
jorgensen		Brad!... Is no time for lolly- gagging...
clayton		Looks like I'll be reading the lines over that pair before long, sister Edwards.
jorgensen		Is no time for talking weddings... Better say prayers for those dirty thieves, by golly... running off a man's beef...
mose		Grateful to the hospitality of yore rockin' chair, ma'am...
clayton		Let's get on with it...
debbie		WAIT!
debbie		Martin! Ride me as far as the well!
martin		Grab hold!...
aaron's voice		 DEBORAH!
martin		 Uncle Ethan!
martin		Somethin' mighty fishy about this trail, Uncle Ethan...
ethan		Stop callin' me 'uncle'... I ain't your uncle.
martin		Yes, sir.
ethan		Don't have to call me 'sir' neither... Nor grampaw neither... Nor Methuselah neither... I can whup you to a frazzle.
martin		What you want me to call you?
ethan		Name's Ethan... Now what's so mighty fishy about this trail?
martin		Well, fust off...
jorgensen		Look! Look!
jorgensen's voice		 Brad! He's found them... Come on!
ethan		Call that young fool back!
ethan		 Caddo or Kiowa, huh?... Ain't but one tribe uses a lance like that!
mose		 Ay-he... Comanch!
brad		Killed every one -- an' not for food either... Why'd they do a thing like that?
ethan		Stealing the cattle was just to pull us out... This here's a murder raid...  It shapes up to scald out either your place... or my brother's.
jorgensen		Mama!... Oh please... please no... BRAD!
clayton		Jorgensen's place is closest... If they're not there, we'll come straight on!
martin		Well, come on!
ethan		Easy!  It's forty miles, sonny... Horses can do with some grain and a little rest.
mose		Comanch generally hits at moonrise.
martin		Moonrise!... It'll be midnight before... I ain't waitin'...!
mose		Wisht it was Caddoes... or Kiowas...  Comanche...
aaron		Think I'll see if I can pick off a sage-hen or two, Martha...
martha		You do that, Aaron...
aaron		 Won't go far...
lucy's voice		My, the days are getting shorter!
martha		 Lucy!... We don't need the lamp yet...
martha		 Let's enjoy the dusk a while.
on porch		Aaron is slowly scanning the terrain.
aaron		 Mind you sweep up them shavin's.
ben		Yes, Pa...  An' if you see any sage-hens, I'm ready.
ben		 It's all right, ma... I been watchin'...  Only I wish...
martha		 What, Ben?
ben		I wish Uncle Ethan was here. Don't you, ma?
lucy		Mother, I can't see what I'm doing!...
martha		NOT YET, LUCY!...
aaron		In the house, boy... and...
aaron		Ben, close the shutters.
lucy		Pa?
martha		 DEBORAH!
debbie		I only took one, ma... Topsy was hungry.
aaron		LUCY!
lucy		I'm sorry... I couldn't find the shawl...
aaron		Hurry, Martha... Moon's fixin' to rise...
martha		 We're going to play the sleep-out game... Remember?... Where you hide out with grandma?
debbie		Where's she buried?
martha		And you'll go along the ditch -- very quietly -- like a... 
debbie		Like a little mouse.
aaron		Now!
martha		There!... And you won't come back or make a sound... no matter what you hear? Promise!... No matter what?
debbie		I promise... Wait!
aaron		Child, child!
debbie		Can't I have Topsy to keep me company?
aaron		There's no time...
martha		Here she is, baby... Baby...
aaron		Down low -- go!
aaron		 Here dog... here!
aaron		She reached the ditch...
aaron		She'll be all right, mother... she'll be all right.
martin		 Ethan!... Ethan!
martin		 Uncle Ethan... it's me... Martin!
ethan		Out of my way!
martin		 Mose! Wait!...
martin		Ethan!... Mose!...
ethan		 You stay out!
ethan		Nothing for you to see.
martin		Leggo...
ethan		Don't let him go in there, Mose...
ethan		 Lucy -- Lucy!
clayton		...and to Your keeping we commend the souls of Aaron... Martha... and Benjamin Edwards...
clayton		Man that is born of woman is of few days and full of trouble...
clayton		He cometh forth like a...
ethan		 Amen!... Put an 'amen' to it!
clayton		...like a flower and is cut down... Amen!
clayton		Charlie--you and Brad ride point! ...Don't get too far ahead...
ethan		 I'd be obliged if you'd get to the point, ma'am.
ethan		 Come on, if you're comin'...
martin		We'll find them, Mrs. Jorgensen... We'll find them...
clayton		Another one, eh?
charlie		This 'un come a long way 'fore he died.
clayton		Well, that's seven we can score up to your brother, Ethan.
nesby		I don't like it.
clayton		What don't you like?
nesby		Injun's on a raid generly hides their dead so you won't know how many they've lost... If they don't care about us knowin', it only spells one thing... they ain't afraid of us followin' -- or of us catchin' up with 'em either.
ethan		You can back out any time, Nesby.
nesby		Didn't say that...  What's he doin' that for...
charlie		He wants to be sure...
brad		 Let's get along...
ethan		 Why don't you finish the job?
clayton		 What good does that do?
ethan		By what you preach... none!
ethan		But by what the Comanche believe -- now he can't enter the spirit land, but has got to wander forever between the winds... because I took his mangy scalp!
brad		 If only she's alive... I'll make it up to her... No matter what's happened... I'll make her forget... She's just got to be alive...
ethan		Get some rest!
mose		Could be a buffler...
brad		It's horses, I tell ya...
ethan		It's them all right...
ethan		They're camped by the river -- 'bout twenty miles from here.  Soon's it gets dark we'll circle out so's to jump 'em before daybreak.
clayton		 You're right sure you want to jump 'em, Ethan?
ethan		 It's what we're here for, ain't it?
clayton		I thought we were trying to get the girls back -- alive... We jump those Comanches, they'll kill 'em... You know that!
brad		 But... but what are we doin' then?... What are we supposed to do?
clayton		What I had in mind was runnin' off their hoss herd... A Comanche on foot is more apt to be willin' to listen...
nesby		That makes sense to me.
martin		Yeah...
ethan		 What do you know about it?... What's a quarter-breed Cherokee know about the Comanche trick of sleeping with his best pony tied right beside him... You got as much chance of stampedin' their herd as...
clayton		...as you have of findin' those girls alive by ridin' into 'em...  I say we do it my way, Ethan... and that's an order!
ethan		Yes, sir... But if you're wrong, Captain Clayton, don't ever give me another!
mose		Ay-he... They was here...
ethan		 SURE!... They WERE here... Now they're out there... an' waitin' to jump us!...
ethan		You got any more orders, Captain?
clayton		 Just keep goin'...
mose		 Jus' bein' sociable, Cap'n...
clayton		 Keep goin'...
brad		 Look!
clayton		Easy!
ethan		 If you were tryin' to surround 'em, you sure succeeded.
clayton		How far's the river from here, Mose?
mose		I been baptized, Reverend... yes suh, been baptized, thank ye...
clayton		Well, you better brace yourself for another one... Ya-HEE!
clayton		YA-HEE!
clayton		 This is as good as any... Charlie, you and Ed take the horses...
mose		 Minds me o' the time Joe Powers an' me fit us some Kiowas...
martin		You think they mean to charge us, Uncle Ethan...?
mose		...We found us an ole buffler wallow...
brad		 Criminy!
ethan		Steady, Daniel Boone! You don't want to miss... It makes them think their medicine's stronger than yours...
mose		Ay-he... That's jest what I tole Joe Powers... That un's gettin' kinda sassy, ain't he, Ethan?
ethan		 Real sassy.
clayton		 I didn't give any order to fire!
ethan		That's all right, Captain... I don't need any formal invitation to kill a Comanch...
clayton		 You got one now!
ethan		Slack your shoulders... Slack 'em... Your hands'll take care of themselves...
mose		 There goes yer scalp, Ethan!...
ethan		I still got one out there.
clayton's voice		 No, Ethan.
clayton		Let them bury their dead...
ethan		That tears it, Reverend... From now on, you keep out...  All of you!... I don't want you with me... I don't need you... for what I got to do!
charlie		 No need to shout, mister.
charlie		Reckon we got to go back -- Ed's shoulder is smashed -- bad!
nesby		I can make it... just get me on a horse...
clayton		No good, Ed... And Ethan's right... This is a job for a company of Rangers... or it's a job for one or two men... Right now we're too many... an' not enough...
brad		 Only one way you can stop me lookin' for Lucy, mister... An' that's kill me...
martin		That's how I feel, Uncle Ethan...  Ethan, sir.
ethan		All right... but I'm givin' the orders... You take 'em or we split up here and now...
martin		 Why, sure, Ethan... There's just the one thing we're after... finding Deborah and Lucy...
ethan		 If they're still alive...
clayton		You boys got enough shells?
martin		Yeah...
clayton		Vaya con dios.
brad		 They got to stop sometime... if they're human at all, they got to stop!
ethan		Naw... a human man rides a horse till it dies... then he goes on afoot... A Comanche comes along... gets that horse up... and rides it twenty more miles... Then he eats it.
ethan		 Easy on that!
martin		Sorry... We don't even know if Debbie 'n Lucy are with this bunch... Maybe they split up...
ethan		They're with 'em -- if they're still alive.
brad		You've said that enough!... Maybe Lucy's dead... maybe they're both dead... but if I hear it from you again, I'll fight ya, Mr. Edwards!
ethan		 That'll be the day!... Let's ride.
martin		Four of 'em cut out here... Why?
ethan		I'll take a look... You keep after the others...
martin		 You want us to fire a shot if...
ethan		 No... nor build bonfires... nor beat drums neither. I'll meet you on the far side.
ethan		Oh... it's you.
ethan		 I... uh... here's where they met up again...
ethan		 Trail leads off there...
brad		Why'd they break off?  Was there water in that canyon?
ethan		Huh...?  No... no water.
martin		You all right, Ethan?
ethan		Huh...?  Sure I'm all right...
martin		Say!... What happened to your blanket? Lose it?
ethan		Must've... Anyway, I ain't goin' back to look for it...
brad		 I saw her!... I saw Lucy!
brad		 They're camped 'bout two miles over... I was just swingin' back when I saw their smoke... I bellied up a ridge an' they was right below me...
martin		Did you see Debbie?
brad		No, but I saw Lucy all right... She was wearin' that blue dress... an' she was walkin' along...
ethan		 What you saw wasn't Lucy.
brad		It was, I tell you!
ethan		What you saw was a buck wearin' Lucy's dress...  I found Lucy back there in that canyon... I wrapped her in my blanket an' buried her with m'own hands... I thought it best to keep it from you -- long as I could.
brad		Did they...? Was she...?
ethan		 What've I got to do -- draw you a picture?... Spell it out?... Don't ever ask me!... Long as you live don't ever ask me more!
martin		 BRAD!...
ethan		Let's just hope he took some with him...
martin		What you goin' to do?
ethan		Get some sleep... Tomorrow's another day...
martin		 Say it. We're beat!
ethan		 No... our turnin' back don't change anything... not in the long run. If she's alive, she's safe... for a while... They'll keep her to raise as one of their own, 'til she's of an age to...
martin		And you think we got a chance to find her?
ethan		An Injun will chase a thing til he thinks he's chased it enough... Then he quits... Same when he runs... Seems he never learns there's such a thing as a critter that might just keep comin' on... So we'll find them in the end, I promise you that... We'll find them just as sure as the turning of the earth.
ethan		 You got my letter about your son, Brad?
jorgensen		Yah... Just about this time a year ago...
jorgensen		The Lord giveth--the Lord taketh away...
martin		I ain't fit to go indoors, miz Jorgensen... These clothes is...
laurie		Martie!
martin		 Laurie.
martin		 But I fairly forgot just how pretty you was...
martin		Hey... What you doin'...?
martin		 Don't go takin' that stuff...
laurie		Ain't worth the mendin'...
laurie		What you gettin' red-in-the-face for?... I have brothers, haven't I?
martin		Well I ain't one of 'em!
laurie		I'm a woman, Martie...  We wash and mend your dirty clothes all our lives... When you're little we even wash you... How a man can ever make out to get bashful in front of a woman I'll never know...
martin		You talk like a feller might just as leave run around nekkid...
laurie		Wouldn't bother me...  I wouldn't try it in front of pa, though, was I you...
ethan		...an' then it snowed and we lost the trail... No need to tell ya all the places we went... Fort Richardson, Fort Wingate an' Cobb... the Anadarko Agency... Trouble is we don't even know which band that war party belonged to...
ethan		I got your boy killed.
jorgensen		 It's this country killed my boy!... Yes, by golly!
laurie		Ma!... Martie's drawers is a sight! Ain't fit for rags!... Would it be all right if we gave him some of Brad's things?
jorgensen		 By golly, the letter... In the chest, mama... It came for you, Ethan... last winter...
jorgensen		 Joab Wilkes of the Rangers brought it...
ethan		 Mrs. Jorgensen...
ethan		Will you look at this?
ethan		You ever see it before... like mebbe on a dress Debbie wore?
ethan		No... not yet...
ethan		 ...not yet...
martin		Might at least have left me my pants!
laurie		Shush!... Time for bed anyway...  Likely these'll need some takin' in... Oh, Martie, you're that gaunted! ...Ma's havin' a turkey for dinner tomorrow and...
jorgensen's voice		 Laurie!... Come... come!
laurie		Yes, Pa!... Good night, Martie... good night, Mr. Edwards...
martin		Good night... Laurie...
ethan		Good night...
ethan		Jorgensen's been runnin' his cattle with my own...
martin		 YOUR cattle?... DEBBIE'S cattle!
ethan		He's agreed to take you on and share the increase from my herd while I'm gone... I'll be pushin' on tomorrow...
martin		I ain't stayin'... I set out lookin' for Debbie... I aim to keep on...
ethan		Why?
martin		Because she's my... my...
ethan		She's your nothin'... She's no kin to you at all!
martin		I always felt like she was... Her folks takin' me in, raisin' me like one of their own...
ethan		That don't make 'em kin...
martin		All right... I ain't got no kin... I'm goin' to keep lookin' that's all.
ethan		How? You got any horses, or money to buy 'em... You ain't even got money to buy cartridges... Jorgensen's offering you a good livin' here...
ethan		Martin... I want you to know somethin'...
martin		 Yeah... you want me to know I ain't got no kin -- no money -- no horses -- nothing but a dead man's clothes to wear!... You tole me that already... Now shut your head!
ethan		Good night.
laurie		 Ethan rode on... an hour ago.
laurie		I don't know what you can do about finding Debbie that he can't...
laurie		He'll find her now, Martie... Please believe me... I know.
martin		That's what scares me -- him findin' her.
martin		Laurie, I've seen his eyes when he so much as hears the word 'Comanche' ...I've seen him take his knife an' ...never mind... But he's a man can go crazy wild... It might come on him when it was the worst thing could be... What I counted on, I hoped to be there to stop him, if such thing come.
laurie		 I hoped I could hold you here... But I guess I knew... So I stole this for you...
martin		'I bought a small size dress off a Injun... If this here is a piece of yr chiles dress bring reward. I know where they gone... Jerem Futterman.'
martin		 Futterman!... He's got a little tradin' post on the South Fork o' the Brazos... Laurie, I just got to get me a good horse! Think yer pa would...
laurie		Finish your breakfast...
martin		I gotta catch up with him, Laurie!
laurie		 Go on then! Pa's in the barn saddlin' the Fort Worth stud... an' you can take the light gelding with the blaze...
martin		But that's Sweet-face -- your own good horse.
laurie		 Take it and welcome... but don't count on finding me here when you get back... I've been dallying around this god-forsaken wind-scour almost two long years waitin' for you... I ain't cut out to be an old maid!
martin		 I can't help it, Laurie... I just gotta catch up with Ethan...
man		Andale! Andale!
futterman		Drink?
ethan		 How'd you come by this?
futterman		You said there'd be a thousand dollar reward.
ethan		That's what I said.
futterman		You got it with you?
ethan		Reward'll be paid when I find her -- an' if she's alive...
futterman		Man's got a right to expect some kind o' payment... I laid out for the dress an' sendin' you the writin'...
ethan		Twenty Yankee dollars.
futterman		...an' a man's time is worth somethin'...
ethan		Talk!
futterman		A young buck fetched it in late last summer...  Said it belonged to a captive chile of Chief Scar...
ethan		Scar? Never heard of any Chief Scar.
futterman		Me neither... But this buck claimed he was a big war chief with the Nawyecky Comanches.
ethan		Keep talking.
futterman		Scar's band was headin' north... to winter in at Fort Wingate... eatin' agency beef. That's what this buck said... Maybe he lied.
ethan		And maybe you lie...
futterman		In that case you won't find her -- and I won't get my thousand dollars.
futterman		 Cards?... A jug?... If you'd like some company, we got a few squaws on the place...
ethan		No thanks.
futterman		Don't forget to come back with my thousand dollars.
ethan		Ain't yours yet.
futterman		 Bad manners... He shoulda said 'good- bye.'
martin's voice		Acts like somethin's out there.
ethan		 Smells a change in the weather...
ethan		Wouldn't surprise me if we didn't have a frost 'fore mornin'... Here...  Whyn't you bed down closer to the fire, boy?
martin		Hey! What's the idea...?
ethan		Maybe I'm gettin' like Mose Harper -- my bones is cold tonight...
martin		Funny... When we passed through Fort Wingate last winter, we didn't hear mention of any Nawyecky Comanche there...
ethan		Not so funny... if you recollect what 'Nawyecka' means...
martin		What's that?
ethan		Sorta like 'roundabout' -- like a man says he's goin' one place when he means to go just the reverse...
martin		 Oh...
ethan		You all settled an' comfortable now?
ethan		Thanks... you did just fine...
martin		 Futterman?
ethan		He just couldn't wait...
martin		 Whatchu doin'?...
ethan		Even got my twenty dollars back... We did all right.
martin		WE?... You just used me for bait -- staked me out like a... buildin' up the fire... fixin' it so's... I coulda had my brains blowed out!
martin		 Suppose you'd missed!
ethan		Never occurred to me...
charlie		 Howdy, Mister Jorgensen...
jorgensen		Charlie...
charlie		Got a letter here...
jorgensen		By golly! A letter?
charlie		For Miss Laurie...
charlie		Yes'm... Figgered it might be the news you been waitin' for... so...
charlie		No need to...
jorgensen		 Yah?
laurie		 I was just readin' to see if... Anyway, it's MY letter!
charlie		 Maybe I'd better be goin'...
jorgensen		You stay, Charlie... After all, Charlie brought the letter, Laurie... He got a right to listen too!
laurie		 Oh, all right!  Well... Martin says...
jorgensen		From the beginning...
laurie		'Dear Miss Laury'... He spells it with a Y instead of an I... E... Wouldn't you think he'd know...
jorgensen		Who cares what he spells it? Read the letter.
laurie		Dear Miss Laury... I take pen in hand to let you know Ethan and me still are trying to catch up with them Comanches the late Mister Futterman told us about...
laurie		The late Mister Futterman?
jorgensen		That means Mister Futterman is dead, by golly.
martin's voice		Soon we was meeting up with Kiowas an' Wichitas an' even some Comanches camped by one of the agencies...
martin's voice		But none of them was Nawyecky's nor claimed to know a war chief named Scar... He's the one the late Mister Futterman said had Debbie...
martin's voice		At one o' the agencies we outfitted with all kind an' manner of trade goods... figgerin' that'd make it easier for us to come an' go... You'd laugh if I told you what was our biggest seller...
laurie		'There is one other thing I got to tell you before you hear it from Ethan... How I got myself a wife'...
laurie		A WIFE?
charlie		 He did?
jorgensen		 Good! A young man should get married early in life. Right, mama?
jorgensen		Every young man should at least once...Go on, Laurie! Read!
laurie		 A little Comanche squaw - SQUAW!
jorgensen		 My wife was a school teacher, Charlie ...She reads good.
laurie		I'll read it...
charlie		 So he married a Comanche squaw... Haw haw haw!
ethan		 Let's go... I think I stumbled onto somethin'...
martin		 Scar?
ethan		 When are you goin' to learn to keep your mouth shut! Come on.  Let's get out of here.
martin		But I just bought a good blanket.
ethan		 Forget it...
ethan		What I heard back there was that a band o' hostile Nawyeckas came through this way less'n two weeks ago...
martin		 Think it might be...?
ethan		What's she followin' for?
martin		Look, I changed my mind... You can keep your blanket.
martin		Go on back...
martin		Look... you don't understand...  I don't want it.
ethan		 YOU don't understand, ya chunkhead! You didn't buy any blanket! Ya bought her!
martin		 What?
ethan		You got yourself a wife, sonny!
martin		 Oh no! Tell her she's got to go back...
ethan		And have her whole family after our scalps for floutin' one o' their women?... No sir! Come on, Mrs. Pauley...
martin		Mrs... Pauley?
ethan		 I got another gal purtier'n you.  I got another gal purtier'n you.  I got another gal purtier'n you.  Skip to my Lou, my darlin'.
martin		Water!...  Pah!
ethan		That's the way to train 'em. Looks like Mrs. Pauley's goin' to make you a fine beautiful wife...
martin		Cut it out, will ya...
martin		Look... I wish I could explain to you.
look		Look?...
look		Nay tzare T'sala-ta-komal-ta-name... unt kang-yah Look. .
ethan		Says her name's Wild Goose Flying in the Night Sky... but she'll answer to Look since it pleases ya...
martin		 Look?
martin		 I don't think it's so funny... If you want to do some good, whyn't you ask her where Scar is?
ethan		 She heard ya-all right... An' she knows...
ethan		Unt osupanet cah-nay Scar? 
ethan		You ask her!
martin		Look!  Do you know where he went? And if he has a girl with him... a white girl -- nai-bist pabo taibo...
look		Mah nee-koo-ur? 
martin		 How do you say sister?
ethan		 Nami.
martin		Beats me how she could get that pony out o' camp without neither of us hearin' a thing...
ethan		She ain't goin' back to her family, that's certain... not if she took off where the arrow points.
martin		Think she means for us to follow?
ethan		How should I know... She's YOUR wife!
martin		I think maybe we oughta...
ethan		 Yeah, I kinda figgered you'd say that... Bein' a new husband and all...
laurie		Maybe she left other signs for us to follow but we'll never know -- 'cause it snowed all day and all the next week... We were heading north, through the buffalo country when something happened that I ain't got straight in my own mind yet... 
martin's voice		Ethan's always been throwing it up to me that I'm a quarter-breed... I never figgered it made much difference...
martin's voice		But this day we came on a small herd. We needed some meat so we circled 'round...
martin's voice		...and came up on 'em afoot...  They hadn't been hunted, so it was no trick workin' in close.
martin's voice		Ethan got a nice one on his first shot, but then he began killing one after another -- cows as well as bulls -- fast as he could fire and load... It was just a slaughter... no sense to it...
martin		Ethan, quit it!
ethan		 Ten!
martin		What's the sense in it!
ethan		 Hunger! -- Empty bellies! That's the sense in it, you Cherokee!...
ethan		Least, THEY won't feed any Comanches this winter... Killin' buffalo's as good as killin' Injuns in this country.
martin		Peaceful tribes depend on the buffalo, too....
ethan		Ain't that too bad... If you feel that sorry for your kinfolk, I'm surprised you didn't take up with that squaw wife of yours...
martin		ETHAN!
martin		Listen!... Hear it?... There! Ain't that a bugle... and firing?
ethan		 Just hope we ain't too late...
martin's voice		 It was all over long before we got there and the soldiers was high- tailin' it back to the agency with their prisoners -- squaws mostly -- by the time Ethan and me reached the camp...
martin's voice		It was the Nawyecky Comanches all right -- the ones we'd been looking for all this time...
martin's voice		Trouble of it was that the soldiers had hit when most of the fightin' men was away -- huntin' maybe... So most of the dead was old men and women an' kids... And it was in one of the tepees Ethan found her -- the little squaw who wanted me to call her Look...
ethan		Well, you're a widower now...
martin		 What'd the soldiers have to kill her for!...
martin		Ethan!
martin		Look! It's hers, Debbie's...
martin's voice		So we knew Debbie had been in the village... What Look was doing there -- whether she'd come to warn them, or maybe to find Debbie for me... there's no way of knowing...
martin		We gotta catch up with them yellow legs... Maybe they got her with them.
ethan		 And maybe they got Scar!
officer		 Yes?
ethan		We're looking for a girl -- a white girl...
martin		She'd be about thirteen now...
officer		We got two around that age...
martin		 Where?
officer		You'll have to wait until we reach the agency... Fall in behind the column...
martin		 But couldn't you...?
officer		Sorry...  Keep the column moving!... Close ranks there!
general		And it was clear to me the hostiles outnumbered us four to one... with all the advantage of terrain...
correspondent		Four to one! What did you do, general?
general		 Sir -- we charged!... Gentlemen -- and I hope you will quote me -- I cannot say too much for the courage of the men who followed me into that Cheyenne camp...
ethan		 Cheyenne! What Cheyenne?
general		 I beg your pardon?
ethan		That camp you hit was Nawyecka Comanche... Chief Scar's bunch...
correspondent		 Scar? What a wonderful name!...
general		 Are you getting this, Keefer?
correspondent		 How do you spell that word -- Nawyecka?
ethan		My name's Edwards... I'm looking for my niece... she was in that camp when you attacked...
general		 Well... I know there were some captives recovered...
martin		 Four of 'em dead... so we were told...
general		 Unfortunately, the hostiles murdered them as we developed the village...
ethan		Are you sure they didn't die of carbine shots fired by a bunch o' Yank bluebellies so scared they couldn't tell the difference between a Cheyenne and a Comanche?
general		Keefer!... Put this man under arrest!
ethan		That'll be the day...  'As we developed the village'... Next time you develop a village, hit it where the fightin' men are... You won't get any headlines for killin' squaws.
keefer		Shall I show him the captives, sir?
general		Just get him out of here!
keefer		Yes sir...  This way...
martin		Debbie?... DEBBIE?
martin		Don't be scared, ma'am...
keefer		Just don't pay any attention to her...
martin		 Debbie?
girl		Pabo-taibo!  The other girl has risen almost in the same instant -- but more out of fear. She is younger, but painted like the other. She moves to stand behind the savage one.
martin		 No... She's not...
ethan		I ain't sure... Where's that doll?
keefer		Was your niece about their age?
ethan		Not far from it...
keefer		Hard to realize they're white, isn't it...
ethan		 They're not white any more -- they're Comanche!... Let's see the bodies...
ethan		I don't need you...
keefer		 I'd like you to see them all... It might help us identify them... Shot in the head -- flash-burn range... The boy got his skull cracked... Here's the girl...
ethan		No...
ethan		Well, we only got the one lead -- Scar... And where we begin to look, I don't know...
keefer		There's one thing. We recovered a bushel of trinkets in that camp... cheap stuff... trade goods... Couldn't help noticing that most of it was Mexican... Maybe if you could talk to some of those Mexican traders along the border... What do they call themselves?
ethan		Comancheros...
keefer		That's the breed... Course it might take time.
ethan		Time's running out... But I'm obliged to you.
laurie		...so we're setting out for New Mexico Territory in the morning... I am sorry I won't be back for Christmas again this year...
laurie		 What's the difference!
laurie		 yours truly, Martin Paulie.'
jorgensen		They never find that girl.
laurie		 I don't care if he never comes back!
charlie		Thought of saying 'no' never crossed my mind, Miz Jorgensen... No place I'd rather be than right here, right now.
charlie		 One old boot and a button shoe One old boot and a button shoe...
ethan		Recognize it?
ethan		There couldn't be two like that in all the world...
ethan		 MOSE!.... MOSE HARPER?
mose		Ay-eh...?
ethan		Leggo my arm... You look mangier 'n ever.
mose		Ain't been too good... No sir, not too good... Gettin' old, Ethan...
ethan		You were born old...
proprietor		 Bienvenidos, senores... Pulque?... tequila?... mescal?... huiskey?
ethan		Tequila...
martin		Lo mismo.
proprietor		 Y' par' el Viejo -- el vino del pais... tequila tambien!
mose		I been helpin' ye, Ethan... I been lookin' all the time...
martin		 Thanks for nothin'...
ethan		Well, the reward still stands...
mose		Don't want no money, Ethan... jus' a place -- a roof over m' head... a little grub... a bunk to sleep in... an' a rockin' chair by the fire... my own rockin' chair by a fire...
ethan		You help me find her, you got your rockin' chair...
mose		Swear it, Ethan?... Given word?
ethan		 Told ya, didn't I?
mose		 Ethan... I found a man's seen her... knows where little Debbie is!
ethan		Who? Where is he... this man?
emilio		I am this man, senor... Emilio Gabriel Fernandez y Figueroa... at your service...  ...Always for a price...
emilio		Un otra!
ethan		 Come on, Don Juan... We're on our way...
martin		 Lemme alone...
ethan		 You breeds are all alike -- two drinks an'...
martin		Take yer hands off'n me... This lady an' me got some things to talk over!
ethan		 Suit yourself... While you're enjoyin' your little conversation, I'll be ridin' out with Senor Fernandez here...  The Comanch' medicine country ain't far... there's one camp with a chief named Cicatriz.
martin		Never heard of him...
ethan		Cicatriz is Mex for Scar... an' he has a white girl in his tepee... Be seein' you...
emilio		Buena suerte, Estrella... Hasta la vista.
estrella		 Tu quieres...?
martin		 Sure... sure... Only not this year...
mose		'Mind Ethan 'bout my rockin' chair!
ethan		Medicine country, huh?
emilio		 Medicine so strong they believe the feather of an eagle found here can guard a man against bullets...
martin		 If you got one handy, now's the time...
martin		 What are we waiting for?
emilio's voice		Senores! This is Cicatriz!
ethan		 Scar... It's plain to see where you got your name.
scar		Your name - Big Shoulders... His name - He Who Follows.
ethan		You speak pretty good American for a Comanche... Someone teach you?
ethan		That's right... We come to trade... Only not out here...  I don't stand talkin' in the wind.
emilio		 Miguel... caballo -- aca!
emilio		Co-bay tabitz-chat. 
ethan		 Stay out here.
martin		Not likely.
scar		Pie-kay! 
emilio's voice		His sons are dead... So his wives sit on the honor side of his lodge.
ethan		 Are those his wives too?
scar		Two sons -- killed by white men... For each son, I take many scalps... 
scar		 MAYAH-KAY ZEE-EH!
ethan		 I've seen scalps before...
scar		This before?
ethan		 I came to trade, not to admire his collection... Tell him we're going to pitch camp across the crick... Maybe we can talk trade tomorrow.
emilio		 Tomorrow -- manana -- 'puetze.'
scar		Puetze!
emilio		 If you gringo heretics have any prayers, say them...
martin		 She's alive... Can you believe it, she's alive... alive... An' we found her...
emilio		 Please!... I, too, am alive... I wish to stay that way.
emilio		 Vamanos!
emilio		You understand, senores... It is not that I am cobarde... cowardly...
ethan		Don't apologize... You did your job...
emilio		He knows you -- who you are -- and why you are here... This I did not understand... or I would not... even for gold, senores... have led you here.
emilio		Take it. I do not want blood money. Vaya con Dios!
martin		You figger Scar means to kill us?
ethan		He's got to... All these years, runnin', dodgin', knowin' we were after him... Now we caught up... It's him or us.
martin		Why didn't he make his move back there?
ethan		I don't know... Somethin' tied his hands... maybe hospitality...
martin		 Debbie...?
debbie		 Both men move closer. She takes a frightened step back, as if to run.
martin		Debbie... Don't you remember me? I'm Martin.
debbie		 Unnt-meah!
martin		 We ain't goin'! We ain't goin' without you, Debbie... Ethan, get the horses... I'll try to keep her talkin'...
ethan		 How? She's even forgot her own language!
martin		Debbie, you're comin' with us!  Hear me?
debbie		No... not now... not ever.
martin		I don't care what they've done to you... what happened...
debbie		 They have done... nothing... They are my people...
ethan		Your people? They murdered your family!
debbie		 White men killed them - to steal cows! I was... little... I ran away... They find me... take care of me.
martin		No Debbie! That ain't what happened! They been lyin' to you...
debbie		You lie! All white men lie... and kill...
martin		Debbie, think back! I'm Martin... remember? Remember how I used to let you ride my horse? Tell you stories? Don't you remember me, Debbie?
debbie		I remember... from always... At first I prayed to you... come and get me... take me home... You didn't come...
martin		I've come now...
debbie		These are my people...  Unnt-meah! Go! Go! Please!
ethan		 Stand aside, boy...
martin		Ethan -- NO!
martin		Debbie! WAIT!
ethan		 Never mind her! MOVE!
ethan		 Go on! Get out of here while you can...
martin		 Over there!
ethan		They'll be back...
martin		We won't be here... Come on!
ethan		Martha... Martha!
martin		I gotta open that leg and let the poison out...
ethan		Wait...
ethan		Just in case... Read it.
martin		'I, Ethan Edwards, being of sound mind and without any blood kin, do hereby bequeath all my property of any kind to Martin Pauley...'  I don't want your property.... 'Sides, what do you mean no 'blood kin?' Debbie's your blood kin...
ethan		Not no more.
martin		 I ain't forgettin' you was all set to shoot her yourself... What kind o' man are you, anyway.
ethan		 She's been with the bucks! She's nothin' now but a...
martin		 Shut your dirty mouth!
martin		 I hope you die!
jorgensen		 They're here, mama... Come in, come in...
clayton		Here he is, Lars... Combed, curried 'n washed behind the ears!
charlie		 Yes'm... scarcely reck'nize myself... Where's Laurie?
clayton		 Say, that music sounds so good it must be sinful...
clayton		Well, now, a man of my age just can't haul off and dance in cold blood... but if there's any of that wild cherry brandy of yours, Lars...
jorgensen		 Yah, by golly... One jug left... I get it!
jorgensen		 Hi!... You're late... hurry...
jorgensen		 Ethan... Martie... No, don't get down! ...You can't come in!
jorgensen		The Rangers are here!
ethan		What's that got to do with us?
martin		 What's goin' on?
jorgensen		 Why, my Laurie's getting married...
jorgensen		Wait! Don't you hear me! The Rangers...
martin		So what?
jorgensen		You been posted for murder... both of you... That trader fella, the late Mister Futterman...
martin		I gotta see Laurie!
jorgensen		 Go around the side... the grandmother's room... I'll tell her... PLEASE!
martin		You better!
jorgensen		Quick... hide in the barn, Ethan...
ethan		Hide? Why would I?
jorgensen		Look everybody... Look who's...
ethan		 Evenin'... evenin' Reverend... or do I call you 'Captain'...?
clayton		Came here for a wedding, Ethan... Until that's over, I reckon 'reverend' will do...
ethan		She's not a little girl any more.
ethan		I've seen her... and she's alive.
laurie		 Hello, Martie....
martin		I... I wrote you a letter... Reckon you didn't get it...
laurie		 One letter in five years... I read it till the paper dried up and the writing faded out...
martin		It wasn't much of a letter...
laurie		No, it wasn't... You mighta said you loved me... You mighta asked me to wait... At least that'd have been something...
martin		But I allus loved you... You know that, without my sayin' it... I couldn't bring myself to ask you to wait... the little I had... not knowin' how much longer until we found Debbie...
laurie		 It isn't fair...
laurie		 It isn't fair, Martin Pauley, and you know it!
martin		Don't cry, Laurie... I understand how it is... I'll just go 'way...
laurie		 You do and I'll die, Martie... I will! I'll just die!
charlie		I'll thank you to leave the room, Laurie.
martin		 Charlie MacCorry!... You weren't fixin' to marry HIM??
charlie		She sure is!... An' don't think your comin' back is goin' to change it!
martin		As to that, I don't know, Charlie... We hadn't got around to talkin' marriage...
charlie		What right you got to be talkin' marriage to any decent woman...
martin		 If you're talkin' about that crazy murder charge...
charlie		AND other things... Mebbe you thought you was gettin' away with being comical about that Indian wife you took... I bet she wasn't the first squaw you...
laurie		Stop it! Both of you... I won't have any fighting in this house.
martin		It's all right... Charlie, let's move outside.
charlie		I ain't wearing no gun.
clayton		 Sergeant MacCorry!
clayton		Is this in the line of duty, sergeant?
charlie		 No sir... pleasure.
clayton		In that case, give the boys room...
clayton		Fight fair, son... Use your fists!
ethan		 Comanches don't use their fists, reverend... Let 'em alone...
martin		Could scalp him... but I'll just count coup!
clayton		You all right, sergeant?
charlie		Dunno... Seems so.
clayton		Well, go get cleaned up and we'll proceed with the weddin'...
charlie		Ain't goin' to be any weddin' -- not till we get a few things cleared up 'round here...
nesby		 Well... it was a nice weddin' party... considerin' no one got married... 'Night.
jorgensen		Good night, Ed...
jorgensen		Now, mamma!...
clayton		I got to ask you and Martin to ride to the State Capitol with me, Ethan.
ethan		This an invite to a necktie party, Reverend?
clayton		Captain... Nope, wouldn't say that... Likely you had your reasons for killin' Futterman... Probably needed killin'... I'm speaking as a ranger now, not as a reverend... Fact that all three was shot in the back is the only thing that's raised some question -- that and a missin' gold piece known to have been on him just prior to his demise.
ethan		 That so?
martin		I ain't goin' to Austin, Reverend.
charlie		You're goin' if the captain says you're goin'...
clayton		Now, now... let's not grow disputatious...
clayton		 What's that? More company?
clayton		Kinda late getting here, aren't they?
lieutenant's voice		Hello there! Captain Clayton?
lieutenant		Is Captain Clayton here, Reverend?
clayton		I'm Clayton.
lieutenant		 You're Captain Clayton?...
lieutenant		 Colonel Greenhill's compliments, sir.
clayton		Hold on, son... Who's this Colonel Greenhill you're talking about?
lieutenant		Why Colonel Greenhill is Colonel Greenhill, sir... Commanding Officer, Fifth U.S. Cavalry... I'm Lieutenant Greenhill, sir.
clayton		Oh... Now what's this your pa wants to know?
lieutenant		My pa wants to know... Colonel Greenhill wants to know how soon you could put a company of your Rangers in the field, fully armed and equipped, for joint punitive action against the Comanches.
clayton		JOINT action?
lieutenant		Yes sir... We've received information about a band of Comanches under a chief named Scar...
ethan		What information?
lieutenant		That maybe he's not far from here -- holed up somewhere, waiting his chance to get back over the border... He raided north about a month ago... ran into more army than he bargained for... Now he's running for cover, for keeps this time...
clayton		And what makes you think he's in this territory?
lieutenant		Yesterday, one of our patrols picked up a man claims he was a prisoner with Scar till only two days ago... He talks crazy but I brought him along... Says he lives here... keeps mentioning a rocking chair.
ethan		 Mose...
ethan		MOSE!
mose's voice		Ay-he?... Ay-eh?...
mose		Come f'r my rockin' chai'... ole Mose.
ethan		 Where's Scar, Mose... SCAR?
martin		Ask him about Debbie!... Is she all right, Mose?
mose		My rockin' chai'...
ethan		Mose... try to remember!... You were in Scar's camp...
mose		Ay-he... Made out I was crazy...  Ate dirt... chewed grass... I fooled 'em, Ethan!... an' I got away...
ethan		Scar! Where's he holed in?
mose		Seven Fingers... ay-he... Seven...
ethan		 Seven Fingers?
lieutenant		That's what he told us... but there's no such place on the maps.
martin		Wait a minute! Isn't that the Caddo name for where all those canyons branch on the Malapai?
mose		 Caddo or Kiowa... ay-he... ay-eh...
clayton		You tell your pa a company of Rangers -- all fourteen of 'em -- fully armed an' equipped will be in the field by daylight... headin' for the south end of the Malapai. If he can catch up with us, well an' good...
lieutenant		But... but captain, we can't possibly take the field tomorrow... for your own protection...
clayton		Sonny, yonder's a passel of murderers, complete with Texican scalps an' white girl captive... You want to protect us, you just get out of our way... Now skedaddle!
clayton		Ethan, you an' Martin are hereby appointed civilian scouts -- without pay... Charlie, hightail it to headquarters an' spread the word...
charlie		Yes sir...
martin		My guns...
laurie		Martie... don't go! Not this time.
martin		 You crazy?
laurie		It's too late... She's a woman grown now...
martin		I got to fetch her home...
laurie		Fetch what home?... The leavin's of Comanche bucks -- sold time an' again to the highest bidder?... With savage brats of her own, most like?...
martin		 Laurie! Shut your mouth!
laurie		Do you know what Ethan will do if he has a chance?... He'll put a bullet in her brain! And I tell you Martha would want him to!
martin		Only if I'm dead!
clayton		You ready?
martin		 I'm ready.
ethan		We can get within 500 yards... there's a hogback to the south.
clayton		How many, would you say?
ethan		 Enough to go around... I'd say about a dozen apiece... Mount 'em up!
martin		Wait! We go chargin' in, they'll kill her... and you know it.
ethan		 It's what I'm countin' on.
martin		I know you are... Only it ain't goin' to be that way... she's alive...
ethan		Livin' with Comanches ain't bein' alive...
martin		 She's alive... Better she's alive and livin' with Comanches than her brains bashed out...
clayton		Now son, it's a bitter thing to say, but there's more than your sister at stake here.
ethan		There sure is! I'm going to tell you somethin'... I wasn't going to speak of it... But I'll tell you now.  Did you notice them scalps strung on Scar's lance?
martin		I saw it... And don't try to tell me it was Aunt Martha's or Lucy's...
ethan		You don't remember it, but I remember. That was your mother's scalp!
ethan		I didn't want to tell you... but maybe it's your right to know.
clayton		 Now mount up, son...
martin		It don't change it... All I'm askin' is a chance to sneak in there... an' try to get her out before you come chargin' in.
clayton		What if you're caught?
martin		It won't tell 'em anything, will it! Just a man alone...
ethan		I say NO!
clayton		Go ahead, son... But at the first alarm, we're comin' in -- and we ain't goin' to have time to pick and choose our targets when we do...
ethan		It's your funeral...
charlie		Here... you fight like a Comanch... Maybe this'll help ya pass as one.
clayton		What in...?
greenhill		 Captain Clayton... Captain!
clayton		 Go on! Whyn't you have your bugler sound the charge while you're at it??
greenhill		 Sir?
clayton		Never mind... Your pa know you're out here?
greenhill		Yes, sir... Troop's about ten miles back... The Colonel sent me looking for you...
clayton		 Well you found me... Good work, son... Good work.
greenhill		If there's anything I can do, sir...
clayton		 God forbid... No, son, you flog on back and tell your pa where we're at... and where he's at...
greenhill		But he knows THAT, sir... Can't I stay, sir?
clayton		 All right... But keep your eye on me, boy... I'm the hard case you're up against here -- not these childish savages... If you don't hear me first time I holler, you better read my mind... I don't aim to raise no two hollers on any subject at hand...
greenhill		Yes, sir...
clayton		Watch that knife, boy!
comanche		Tahbo. 
clayton		The State of Texas is payin' you boys $12 a month. Here's your chance to earn it... Now I don't want any foolin' around after scalps. We ain't got the time... Yankee cavalry's on its way here to set those Comanches free... We gotta beat 'em to it -- our way... Now mount an' guide center on young Greenhill here. Son, you just follow me... And WATCH THAT KNIFE!
martin		 Debbie... don't!
martin		 I'm takin' you whether you want to or not...
debbie		 MARTIN!
clayton		For these Thy gifts which we are about to receive...  Sound that horn, son, and Leave Us Go Amongst Them...YA-HEE!
martin		No, Ethan! NO!
ethan		 I'm sorry, girl... Shut your eyes...
ethan		 You sure favor your mother...
colonel		Clayton, if you were in my command I'd have you courtmartialed for this!
clayton		 Hurry it up!
colonel		What's the matter, sir... You wounded? What is it, Sergeant -- a bullet or an arrow?
****Dialogues from script :Secret_Life_of_Walter_Mitty.txt****

eharmony counselor		You know, you didn't really provide much detail about your occupation. Most people put theirs on their eHarmony page. You don't care to?
walter		Is that like a must? Can't I just say like "I'm employed" or something?
eharmony counselor		 Sure.
walter		My work's not really that interesting. To women. Um. Or men.
eharmony counselor		What do you do?
walter		I'm a Practical Asset Manager. For a corporation.
eharmony counselor		 ....okay. What do you do when you're not working?
walter		Mostly I guess I commute to work? It's like an hour and--
eharmony counselor		Okay. No worries. I'll submit this information, then check back in the afternoon for your possible eHarmony matchups. That's exciting, huh?
walter		It is, Todd. Yeah. Hey, when can I leave a "wink" for someone? To see if they "wink" back, or..?
eharmony counselor		I'll have your eHarmony profile all uploaded in a minute.
walter		Cool.
eharmony counselor		So like in two minutes. But hey, you're a little light, if you don't mind me saying this, in your "Been There, Done that" column.
walter		I forgot what I put there?
eharmony counselor		...Nothing.
walter		Oh, okay.
eharmony counselor		We should beef that up. If you can think of anything to add that would make it, you know, not blank.... give me a ring, I'll add it.
walter		I sure will.
eharmony counselor		 ...Are you okay, man?
walter		 ...Me?
eharmony counselor		Yeah.
walter		Yeah. Why?
eharmony counselor		You sound, I don't know, a little stressed?
walter		 No, I just had some stuff on my mind. The past couple months.
eharmony counselor		....What kind of stuff?
walter		 Just, you know... life stuff.
eharmony counselor		Yeah, I get that.
walter		...okay thanks for asking, I guess, um, Todd was your name?
eharmony counselor		Todd Mahar. I'll be your eHarmony counselor, while you're with us here at eHarmony.
walter		Okay. Cool.
eharmony counselor		 Yeah. Hey, let's hope you'll have a special lady on your mind later today.
walter		Sounds good, Todd.
eharmony counselor		Later, Walter.
walter		Later... Todd.
roy		Walter.
walter		What's up, Roy?
roy		Hey. We just got acquired. Our company. This morning.
walter		 Our whole company did?
walter		Gary? You're Vice President of Acquisitions. Right?
gary		Yeah.
walter		... we just got acquired. Did you know that? Roy said.
gary		The company that I'm supposed to be acquiring companies for? It just got acquired?
walter		Yeah, Roy said.
gary		Okay, that's not promising for me probably.
walter		Yeah, they probably have their own acquiring guy.
gary mannheim		He's probably the guy who acquired us.
ted hendricks		Ted Hendricks. Vice President of Acquisitions.
gary mannheim		 Gary Mannheim. Um. Vice President of Acquisitions. Too. So what are you going to be doing at the company, Ted?
ted hendricks		Managing the acquisition. Identifying overlap. Reducing staff where we find redundancy. What's your focus been here, Gary?
gary mannheim		...I've been managing acquisitions. Identifying overlap. Then reducing staff where I find redundancy.
ted hendricks		Wow, okay. That's not...
gary mannheim		Yeah, that's not good.
ted hendricks		No.  What do you do?
walter		I'm a Practical Asset Manager.
ted hendricks		Do you play an important role here?
walter		I do. Yeah. Totally. I work in a one-on-one basis  with all our photographers.
ted hendricks		I'm sorry. I was really getting into this song. What were you saying?
walter		I was just saying I manage our film negatives from the moment they arri-
ted hendricks		 Let's talk later. We have a specific time set aside to conference with employees of the former company.
walter		What time is that?
ted hendricks		I'm not sure. But it's not at this time.
walter		Okay.
ted hendricks		I have to see the board and start evaluations now.
walter		Okay. Thank you.  I mean "not thank you." I mean like "looking forward to it" I should have said.
ted hendricks		I'll come by sometime this week.
walter		Awesome.
gary mannheim		Are you going to come by my...um?
walter		Hey, Hernando-
hernando		Yeah?
walter		This 12th neg? From this last Life roll?
hernando		Yeah.
walter		It's not here.
hernando		What's it of?
walter		It's of something that's the Absolute Quintessence of Life. Or something.
hernando		What's "quintessence?"
walter		It means like the best ever.
hernando		And you can't find it?
walter		Um no.
hernando		Wow. That's not going to go over well with the new asshole.
ted hendricks		How's the issue shaping up?
editor		We got an email from Sean O'Connell.
ted hendricks		The photographer?
editor		Yes. He said he got the cover shot. His best. The Quintessence of Life.
ted hendricks		What does Quintessence mean?
editor		Like the best ever.
ted hendricks		Okay. Awesome.
walter		Tim, did you find out anything about Negative Box 2-6? Where it was sent from?
tim naughton		 That's the Sean O'Connell commission?
walter		Yeah, the guy who took this--
tim naughton		There's nothing in shipping. The box just showed up it seems like. There's no receipt.
walter		...I'm getting nervous with these new guys around. Lost negative. But I'm not going to freak out. I think my work here the last nine years speaks for itself. I've made my mark.
ted hendricks		Who am I evaluating next?
executive		 W. Mitty.
second executive		Who's that?
executive		He's the black guy from Accounts.
third executive		...He's not black.
executive		Are you sure?
third executive		Yeah. He's just a white guy. With a mustache.
second executive		He doesn't have a mustache.
fifth executive		Of course he doesn't have a mustache. He's a woman.
walter		 What is this?
cheryl		 It's... is it two badminton racquets? What's it supposed to be?
walter		It's the Quintessence of Life. So I don't think it's two badminton racquets. Sean O'Connell took this just before he took another one we lost.
cheryl		 You lost a Sean O'Connell?
walter		 ...I'm trying to figure out what this picture is. I think he focused, set his lens then took the missing picture. It's just a better picture of this. What is this?
cheryl		Maybe Sean has it.
walter		The negative? Yeah, I tried to reach him. He's always in Bahrain. Or a shanty town or somewhere - I got one email off.
cheryl		Have you figured anything out?
walter		Not yet. Because my trail is... water.
cheryl		Six billion.
walter		Everyone's got two, too.
cheryl		Two, too, what?
walter		Thumbs.
cheryl		Yeah. But I think there are more Starbucks, so I don't know if that's what you'd call a hot trail--
walter		Look what Sean gave me.
cheryl		 You guys covered the hotspots together boldly?
walter		As a team. Yeah. By Sean actually going to the hotspots, and by me staying here waiting for the pictures of hotspots to come back so I can boldly transfer them to magazine format.
cheryl		...What did you do this weekend?
walter		We're moving my mom here. I went and packed her house up. What about you?
cheryl		My son and I went on a bike ride in Lake Valhalla. Jersey. We brought lunch. Had lunch in an actual field, of grass. We went swimming. My friend Marny lives on the lake.  ...This is going to be the last issue. Life's going to be strictly online after this merger. No new photographs. We're just going to be an internet photo storehouse. That's what I'm hearing. They're going to let most of us go.
sean		What's with all these shoes?
walter		It's a sign of disdain here.
sean		That's a lot of shoes, man.
walter		They've been targeting western journalists all summer. It's been a real hot August.
sean		Thanks for doing all the field work here and risking your ass and getting hit by shoes and stuff.
walter		Let's just get this camera bag out of here. We can shoot the shit later, O'Connell. Over whiskeys.
walter		I tried to leave a "wink." For someone. But it didn't work.
eharmony counselor		Well, they're not required to respond to you favorably. We can't FORCE--
walter		No, it says "unable to perform request," Todd. So I don't think my wink really went through. Do I have like a broken page or something?
eharmony counselor		Broken page? I've never heard of that.
walter		Well, okay, something's not working. On my page.
eharmony counselor		Yeah, let me look here  Okay, we received your application breaking your personality into 29 different dimensions, and, okay, I see the problem. You don't have any.
walter		Any what?
eharmony counselor		Dimensions.
walter		...I don't have any dimensions?
eharmony counselor		Not that we can determine. Through our models. You're just lacking distinguishing features as our system sees it. Based on our really extensive evaluation, you seem, to us, a little too indistinguishable from everybody else.
walter		I don't want to be one now. I just am one.
eharmony counselor		Why do you do it?
walter		It's an occupation. When I became an adult I thought that would be possibly a good thing to have. Because I keep getting bills from places.
eharmony counselor		What are some of your accomplishments?
walter		 ...I studied music.
eharmony counselor		How long?
walter		April.
eharmony counselor		April? One April?
walter		Yeah. But I was working at Orange Julius to save money for college. That April. And my hands were always sore from working the Frother.
eharmony counselor		Can you play any pieces?
walter		Sure.
eharmony counselor		Which?
walter		A piece of Cheers. The first piece. Part.
eharmony counselor		I don't know if we should list that.
walter		Hey, Todd. I have to go. I have a piano situation I have to take care of.
eharmony counselor		Okay, man.
walter		Um hey, can I have my four hundred dollars back?
walter		Rich, are you ready to push a piano down a street and get honked at by everybody in New York?
rich		 Yeah.
cheryl		I can't believe they left it in the park. How old is this?
walter		Her dad bought it for her when she was six. It's seventy-years-old.
cheryl		Your sister just took off?
walter		My sister's not the responsible one in the family.
cheryl		No kidding, man.
walter		She told them no steps. I paid them for a first floor move. But she screwed up and got my mom a apartment on the 15th floor. The movers weren't equipped to get it up there. She didn't have the money for them to take it back. She had to get her braces adjusted, so she just took off.
cheryl		Braces. How old is she?
cheryl		You're sure this is your sister's parking space?
walter		Yeah. Hey, Rich. You're pretty good on that.
cheryl		 When?
walter		Maine. When I was a kid.  Hey. I'll bring it in tomorrow. I don't want you to have to carry it all the way home. I got it.
cheryl		Thanks.
walter		You helped me move a piano. I can carry this. See you Rich. Thanks for putting your back into it.
rich		What does that mean?
walter		Just, you know... helping out, man.
cheryl		See you tomorrow.
walter		Yeah.
cheryl		I'm going to drop Rich at his Dad's. Thanks, Walter.
walter		 Is this the Arctic Ocean..? A glass of Sprite.
walter		Hey were you able to use the Circulation computer to find that ship? That boat?
tim naughton		Yeah, it's registered in Nuuk.
walter		Nuuk?
tim naughton		That's a town. I think the town in Greenland. It's a coastal fishing vessel.
walter		....Greenland.
tim naughton		I don't know.
walter		Seriously?
tim naughton		Yeah.
walter		Wow...
tim naughton		But I don't know if I'd put that on eHarmony. 
walter		Yeah. How did you know you can do that?
tim naughton		My voice goes way up there when I'm emotional, or whatever, can't really control it.
walter		I was thinking about putting that I've never really been late coming back from lunch.
tim naughton		...I don't know. Kind of weak. That's not exactly winning the Tour de France.
walter		...Yeah
frenchmen		 Wal-ter Mi-tty.
frenchmen		 Wal-ter Mi-tty.
edna		Hi, honey.
walter		 Hey, Mom.
edna		Hi, Walter. Is it all right I'm dropping by?
walter		Sure,  we'll just go through here to my office.
tim naughton		 They just called a conference.
walter		 Hey, your new place is almost ready. We just had a little hiccup due to Odessa just not getting the right one.
edna		Well, she's the artist...
walter		Why did she get the cool name? She got to turn out cool.
edna		I named her after a wonderful visit your Dad and I had to Odessa, our family's homeland, one summer, in southern Ukraine. There's a beautiful river there also named Odessa.
walter		Why did you name me Walter?
edna		I named you after Walter Matthau
walter		 Okay. This is starting I think. We should probably just stop here to--
ted hendricks		 Most.
ted hendricks		Most of them.
ted hendricks		Okay. So, we're very excited to play a part in publishing what will be the very last issue of Life Magazine, which has been an American Institution for 75 years and whose renowned covers have touched us all really touching ways. And for the final issue, our cover is going to be something which is...  What was that word?
editor		 Quintessence.
ted hendricks		Our cover will probably be the most famous ever because it really has the awesome quintessence of Life. And we're all going to be a part of this historic happening. Even those of you who will, right after the happening, be asked to leave. Thank you.
walter		 Check for negative 12 in the wash bins.
edna		So the moving bill came, for my move down here. I wanted to bring it by. Thank you so much Walter.
walter		Mom, come on. It's nothing.
hernando		 It's not in there, Walter.
ted hendricks		Yes, sir. It's gone very smoothly. The last issue's underway.  Yes, sir. We're going to retain eleven employees. I'm going to be evaluating them over the next week.
walter		You know, the thing about Greenland... it's really not that far, man.
hernando		What's that?
walter		Greenland.
hernando		What's Greenland?
walter		It's a country/island. Sean might be there. It's not as close as Canada but it's really not as far as it sounds. When you hear it. Look.
hernando		Yeah, it's not that far.
walter		This looks like a chair. Here.
teen		That's not a chair.
walter		I think it's a chair. Or a pipe. A man's pipe.
teen		That's not a pipe either.
walter		 Have you seen this Starbucks?
second teen		I don't know. Possibly.
walter		 thumb?
cab driver		Greenland is the least densely populated country in the world. There's only 56,000 people. Lots to do. Most of us work a few different jobs, to cover everything. For example I drive this cab.
walter		...You're the Queen of Greenland?
cab driver		Yeah. Oh, there goes my meter.
walter		That's cool... your Majesty.
cab driver		Sure.
walter		Is there anything around here that a renowned photographer might be photographing?
cab driver		No.
walter		Are you sure?
cab driver		Yes.
walter		I think he was here.
cab driver		Well, possibly if he was mistaken, he might have thought the Musk Ox migration was worth photographing.
walter		Can we see that?
walter		So are you Queen for life?
cab driver		Yeah.
walter		That's a good gig. They're making some changes at work. My work. They're letting most of the divisions go.
cab driver		How long have you been there?
walter		Nine years.
cab driver		That's tough.
walter		How'd you get to be Queen?
cab driver		My dad was King.
walter		...My dad sold ice cream.
cab driver		Here we are.
walter		That's the Musk Ox migration?
cab driver		Yeah.
walter		There's just three of them.
cab driver		Yeah.
walter		Where are they migrating?
cab driver		To the other side of the island.
walter		 Yeah, I don't think Sean would cover this, so much. Can you just take me to the boat wharf place?
walter		You're the captain of the Erkigsnek? I don't know how to pronounce that.
boat captain		That wasn't right. But yeah, I know what you're trying to say. Yeah. I am.
walter		You're boat was photographed. In the past four days. Do you know where?
boat captain		We've been out in the Atlantic the last four days. I have no idea when this was taken.
walter		Can you guess from where?
boat captain		Where it was taken from?
walter		Yeah.
boat captain		...another ship? Which I can't say. We passed a lot of them. You should check the mail logs at the post office.
postal clerk		Are you a detective?
walter		Yep.
postal clerk		Well, these are the airmail records from this last week.  They helicopter mail in. As the shipping freighters go by. We had fifty three pick ups. That's fifty three freighters. He could have been on any one of them.
walter		So he just went by us?
postal clerk		If he was on a freighter, he went right by us.
walter		So there's no one here who might have had contact with him, who might know where he's going.
postal clerk		I'm afraid I can't help you.
walter		 No, I don't have any... mailing needs.
walter		Can I ask you a question?
walter		Where was your thumb like four days ago?
walter		I can't believe I found one thumb.
pilot		Well, it's the least densely populated country on earth. It's a good place to find a thumb. He's on the Dolores. I helicopter dropped and picked up mail from her Tuesday. He's a strange guy.
walter		Sean?
pilot		Yeah. He took a picture of my thumb.
walter		Yeah, why?
pilot		He saw I worked my controls with it. He's shooting photos of people working. That's why he's on that ship. I'm taking some radio parts out there in fifteen minutes. Their radio's fucked.
walter		Man, I really need to contact him. We're in a transition period and--
pilot		You could contact him by coming with me. Then contacting him. In person. On the boat.
walter		...Can't we just call them? I could ask him on like the boat phone.
pilot		The Ship to shore.
walter		Can I just ask him on the "ship to shore?" Instead of going on that old-looking helicopter?
pilot		Well, their radio's fucked. That's why I'm flying out.
walter		You're leaving now?
pilot		After I finish my beer.
walter		The weather doesn't seem great. Feels like there a storm "moving in." "Brewing."
man		Yeah.
walter		But you're just going to finish YOUR BIG-GLASS-WOMAN'S-BEER-BOOT and then fly?
pilot		Yeah.
walter		Okay. I'm not going to go with you.
walter		Is that a fjord?
pilot		Yeah.
walter		I've seen pictures of fjords. But I've never actually seen a fjord. I don't think I've ever even said the word fjord out loud--
pilot		Stop saying fjord. It's annoying.
walter		Okay.
walter		 Whoa...
pilot		You're doing great. We're only six feet up. Just jump out the door, Walter.
captain		We're sending a pontoon. Try to remain calm.
walter		 what?
captain		If that is a porpoise, befriend it. Porpoises are mammals with rare intelligence and sympathy. They often protect swimmers from predators.
walter		 How do you-- I just see a fin. Can you get a bead on some more information?
captain		 We're confident that's a shark.
chilean sailor		Sean O'Connell? He was picked up.
walter		From your ship?
chilean captain		A pilot boat came. They took him. Four hours ago.
walter		Took him where?
chilean captain		I don't know.
walter		Can we radio them? There's something I need to discuss with--
captain		You jumped into the ocean with our radio components. No. We are, as you say, "on our own."
chilean sailor		You can sleep where Sean did.
walter		Sean slept here?
chilean sailor		Yes.
walter		In this Subaru Outback?
chilean sailor		Yes. That's where our undocumented laborers sleep. Our Stevedores. He was photographing our workers.
walter		He was photographing Chilean Stevedores?
chilean sailor		Yeah.
walter		 This was his room/car?
chilean sailor		Now it will be your room/car.
walter		Hey. Walter.
walter		Is that-- Are you saying quin--
walter		Are you saying Quintessence? In the Spanish form? Yeah. Sean says that.
walter		That's where Sean is. Tomorrow. This gibberish. I have to crack it.
walter		I have to crack the gibberish.
walter		...Sean's in Iceland. We're going past there, right? Can we land there?
walter		Can you get me there tomorrow?
walter		Would you like some Clementine cake?
walter		Oh. Sorry.
walter		Okay, I'm going to go, take my cake and.....
walter		...Hello?
man's voice		Walter.
walter		Yeah.
man's voice		Todd Mahar. From eHarmony.
walter		...Oh. Hey.  Um, do I owe you guys money? Because your supervisor was clear I can't get my 400 dollars back. But I don't think I'm going to renew-
eharmony counselor		No, I just wanted to see how you were doing. You didn't sound great last time.
walter		The last time we talked? The time you told me I have no personality?
eharmony counselor		Well, you know, you just left your application so empty. Share something about yourself. It doesn't have to be major league. 
walter		Well, I take my work seriously. Also keeping a tidy apartment. I help my sister out paying her bills now and then. But can we not list that? None of that stuff really seems like an accomplishment.
eharmony counselor		You know there's a way to consider it where the tasks you accomplish (paying some of your sister's rent--
walter		Braces.
eharmony counselor		What's that?
walter		She hasn't asked me for rent money. For like a year. But I did pay for
eharmony counselor		Well, taking care of yourself and your household, your mom, after you do that without ever failing, for a long time, hey that becomes an accomplishment.
walter		I fought a dolphin.
eharmony counselor		Today?
walter		Yeah.
eharmony counselor		Aren't they supposed to be nice?
walter		They are. I think they're probably the best mammal.
eharmony counselor		 We're mammals.
walter		This mammal tried to protect me. And most of the other mammals I know, like the mammals at the office, they're dicks.
eharmony counselor		Why are you near dolphins?
walter		I'm on a ship.
eharmony counselor		Where?
walter		Near Greenland. I tracked a thumb here. To Nuuk, Greenland. I located the thumb. Now I'm fortunately going to Iceland to correct an oversight.
eharmony counselor		Well, I'm going to tweak your profile, add "sailing" or whatever to your Done Thats. I'll put Swims with Dolphins, too.
walter		It was just one.
eharmony counselor		I can really put Swims with Dolphin. That sounds like you have a pet dolphin you swim with everyday. Can I handle this please? It's my job.
walter		Okay, Todd.
eharmony counselor		You sound a little better?
walter		Do I? Because I think I'm a little worse.
captain		 It's a mile and half to Iceland. It's as far in as we can get with our hull size.
walter		So. Okay. I'm supposed to kayak in?
captain		Reykjavik is due north. You'll be there by 9 am.
rich		I stayed under longer.
cheryl		Just barely.
rich		Let's do it again.
cheryl		Okay. One, two, three.
rich		You're cheating.
cheryl		 Okay, okay. One two three.
walter		....shit.
walter		 Hey, Mom.
edna		Hi, Walter.
walter		What's up?
edna		Oh, I'm just making some yogurt. With some banana.
walter		Okay. Cool.
edna		It snowed today. Didn't expect that. Not much. Just a light little cover. Very pretty. Less than an inch even.
walter		That's awesome.
edna		My piano got towed, Walter.
walter		...Your piano got towed?
edna		Yes. Odessa said it wasn't there. Where you said it was going to be. 
walter		I lent her money for that space.
edna		Where are you, honey?
walter		In Iceland.
edna		That's nice.
flight attendant		It is now safe to turn on portable electronic devices.
walter		My mom's piano.
walter		 It's a Baldwin? Um, Walnut, I guess? A Walnut Baldwin. Piano.
walter		It's right out there. I just walked by it. Do you have more than one piano?
walter		It's a piano.
mover		Where are we taking it?
walter		We can't move into my mom's until tomorrow.
mover		 Well, what do you want me to do? Drive really slowly? We can store it at our warehouse and move it in the morning. But that's two moves. Separate billings.
walter		 Don't worry about it.
mover		What are you talking about?
walter		Don't worry about it.
odessa		Does that say eHarmony? Four hundred dollars.
walter		Yes.
odessa		 Are you on eHarmony?
walter		No.
odessa		Then why did you give them four hundred dollars?
walter		I tried to join, but-- I don't really even want to be on it. I'm just trying to do this thing with someone at work.
odessa		 What?
walter		I'm trying to do that Pia Colada thing?  "If you like Pia Coladas, and getting caught in the rain while wearing a cape--"
odessa		That's not how it goes.
walter		Well, the guy answers a personal ad and finds out it's his wife. They have a good laugh, then they make love on the cape while drinking Pia Coladas or something, and wearing capes, I think. Anyway. I'm hoping she'll click my profile and not realize that she works in my office area. Then we can realize it and have a good laugh. Then--
odessa		Make love on a cape? While wearing capes? Because that's not what they do in the song.
walter		No, then we can know that we picked each other out, you know, from the whole planet. Not just the cafeteria.
odessa		 What's that?
walter		I don't know. What do you think it is?
odessa		 ...Triple A batteries working, as a team, to carry a fish tank up some apartment stairs.
walter		We better tell them they need to shift that over to outside the big room.
odessa		What big room?
walter		 The big room where the big piano is going to go.
odessa		This is the big room.
walter		Hey, Odessa?
odessa		Yeah.
walter		You know when I asked you to pick the apartment out for Mom, you understood that she was taking her piano along.
odessa		I did not understand that.
walter		 Oh, I thought I made that clear when I said the English sentence to you Mom's bringing her piano with her. A month ago.
odessa		I think when we were having that conversation I was using my blender, for a juice drink. It's quite a noisemaker.
walter		Did you enjoy that juice drink? That you were making  simultaneous to me talking to you about important matters? So, okay, right now the piano is hanging in the air, above a city, we can't fit it in here, and I'm not sure I can afford to move it anywhere else. So I hope you enjoyed that juice drink.
walter		We can't. It's the only thing she really wanted to take along. I think it's really best for her. She can still play. Reading's not that easy for her now. She doesn't really have any friends in New York.
walter		What's that move-in like. In terms of deposits and-- for Villa living? In a Villa situation?
walter		How much should I make this deposit for today? To reserve it.
billing director		Nine hundred.
walter		Where's that frigging Clementine cake wrapper thing...
odessa		 What is that?
walter		I almost found someone I was looking for. For work. In Iceland. This is where he's going next. I just don't know where it is.  Warlock. Little weird deer. Like kind of a fez-style hat.
odessa		What are you talking about?
walter		That's what these things are. Klipspringer. Koofiyad. I just don't know what they add up to. I put them all in Google nothing comes up.
odessa		...Is everything okay? At work? Are you sure?
walter		 Yeah. Don't worry.
odessa		Hey. Happy birthday, Walter.
walter		 Yeah, I do.... Thanks.
walter		Oh. Hey.
ted hendricks		You're vital here?
walter		I am. Totally.
ted hendricks		Why are you holding toys?
walter		...It's my birthday.
ted hendricks		...you wanted toys.
walter		No... Um, my sister gave me these.
ted hendricks		 What does that do?
walter		My...  ...item?
ted hendricks		Yeah, you're toy.
walter		His arms and legs stretch outward. Um. But that's not-- I wanted, before we have the chance to talk, I need to discuss an asset situation with you.
ted hendricks		 A photographic negative? I thought those had all been processed?
walter		I've processed the digitization of every single photograph in Life's library. Two million and eleven. But we haven't been able to locate this last negative.
ted hendricks		I know. Because I've been asking for it. Because it's the Quintessence fucking one that I told my boss we had. It's the cover. You seriously lost a photographer's work? At Life?
walter		I'm confident we'll find it.
ted hendricks		Why are you confident we'll find it?
walter		Yes.
ted hendricks		This doesn't reflect very well on you.
walter		I've been here nine years--
ted hendricks		 Here. Call Helmut Newton. Tell him you lost his picture.
walter		Helmut Newton didn't--
ted hendricks		Don't Helmut Newton me.
walter		I didn't Helmut Newton you.
ted hendricks		Hey. We've held up publication of this issue because I told my boss that photo was fucking amazing. Okay? We've spent a hundred and nine thousand dollars because of the overage. You lost an amazing PHOTO--
walter		I know where he is. Sean.
ted hendricks		Where is he?
walter		Somewhere-- I haven't pieced it together, somewhere were there are  little deers and Warlocks.
ted hendricks		Do you know what "fired with cause" means?
walter		Yes.
ted hendricks		I have cause to fire you. You won't pick up another check. I can let you go without severance because-
walter		THAT'S NOT--
ted hendricks		You lost a Sean O'Connell. It was quintessence. He's a war photographer? Cubicle, you're going to tell this brave photographer, risks his life, that you, a male sitting in an office, lost--?
walter		Did you call me Cubicle?
ted hendricks		Do you work at one?
walter		Well, yeah, but I'm not named after one.
ted hendricks		What are you named?
walter		Mom, why are you-- did you need something?
edna		I just wanted to thank you for my Villa. Odessa told me all about it. It sounds so pleasant. Villa. That guy was a real dick.
walter		Yeah.
edna		Anyway, hon, you've really become the man of the family, and I wanted to say I love you, and Happy Birthday.
walter		...thanks, Mom.
edna		What a dick. Big man. Big warlord of the fortieth floor--
walter		Warlord?
edna		I was just discussing them. Last week. They rule over small areas of land using threats, and force bribes of livestock or klipspringers.
walter		 ...Klipspringers?
edna		Yes.
walter		Why did you just say that word?
edna		In some parts of the world they carry small deer like we carry, say, quarters. To pay bribes. Also, blankets or clothing items like koofiyads.
walter		 ...koofiyads.
edna		Yes, for the warlords.
walter		 ...Warlord.
walter		I need to buy a ticket, I think to Dubai. Because I'm going, actually, to Mogadishu  which I think, I'm not allowed to do from here, because it's illegally dangerous.
ticket clerk		Yeah..  That's right more or less..
walter		Here you go.  Whoa, what do you have in there?
ulf		Skateboards. Some switch out boards.
walter		I like your trucks. I used to skateboard. Where are you guys headed?
soren		Into Dubai.
walter		Hey, do you guys know anyplace to stay, that's not like an arm and a leg.
soren		He said you're too old to sleep in a room, but you can sleep in the stairwell, hallway or business center.
walter		Business center.
walter		Do you know-- are there American journalists working here? What would someone want to photograph here?
somalian		The evacuations.
walter		Who's evacuating?
somalian		The peacekeepers.
walter		 The peacekeepers?
somalian		Yeah, they're evacuating.
walter		Like right now?
somalian		All week. The Koreans are leaving from the soccer field.
walter		...Sean?
walter		Sean?
sean		Walter?
walter		...Yeah. Hey. Man, I've really been trying to reach you.  It's good to finally meet you. Thanks for the wallet, man, by the way. Sean, do you happen to know where that negative 12 is. 2-6? On the roll three?
sean		...you have it.
walter		You know what, we don't. I've looked in every neg box and even every camera bag and we have in the warehouse. I even double-checked the Teaneck warehouse.
seann		You have it.
walter		I really don't.
sean		 No, it's not in the neg box. That one was special. Favorite ever. You have it. Seriously. Loan me five bucks.
walter		Loan you... what?
sean		Loan me five bucks.
walter		 Fuck...
walter		Do you have any sense how I could get back to America if I can't afford a plane ticket right now? Totally?
rodney		...Yeah, my brother William. Two dollars.
walter		I give your brother two dollars and then he'll tell me how to get back to America?
rodney		Two dollars. To go to America.
walter		...I can go to America for two dollars?
eharmony counselor		Eharmony. Todd Mahar.
walter		Hey, Todd. It's Walter. Mitty.
eharmony counselor		What's up, Walter?
walter		Hey I wanted to add a couple items?
eharmony counselor		Okay.
walter		To my Been There, Done Thats. If that's cool.
eharmony counselor		It's really cool. What do you got?
walter		Okay. Mogadishu?
eharmony counselor		Yeah.
walter		Been there.
walter		Cheryl Mellhoff.
walter		Walter Mitty.
walter		Thanks.
cheryl		Hey.
cheryl		Did you find the Quintessence of Life?
cheryl		Man, I'm sorry.  How are you feeling?
cheryl		 ...Walter. You go to Mogadishu, and you think about bringing a gift home to my son?
walter		I got the board in Dubai. Hey, Rich. Here watch. The board's going to come up. You don't have to try to lift it.
rich		Thanks, Walter.
cheryl		 Do you have any idea where Sean is now?
walter		No, I lost him. He said I had it though. Like he knew. He smiled. He said "you have it." "You." What's he talking about?
cheryl		Honey. Hey. Come here. That was great.
walter		Excuse me. Can you pass key me in? I need to see Ted. My pass key isn't working. I need to let him know I verified that I have negative 12. I just didn't verify where I have it.
walter		Yes.
walter		Yes.
walter		I need to speak to Ted. I found SEAN O'CONNELL--
new guy		Ted's been let go. We had an overage of 280,000 dollars. Due to this publishing delay.
walter		Is there someone who took over Ted's responsibilities? On a PERMANENT--
new guy		Yeah, that's me Steve Penders.  We're late for Squash.
steve penders		This is the last-Life-cover situation?
walter		Yes.
steve penders		You lost an asset. You cost that COMP--
walter		I didn't lose it. I have it. The photographer told me. I just don't know where I have it.
steve penders		Those are grounds--
walter		Those are no grounds. You can't fire me for not having something that I have.
steve penders		I'm not following you.
walter		I have it. I always have had it. When you fired me, I had it. Why are you trying to hit me with Squash balls?
steve penders		You're on a squash court. I'm trying to play--
walter		No one's informed me that I've been let go.
steve penders		I'm informing you.
walter		I should be sent my November check.
steve penders		Fired with cause. No picture. No CHECK
walter		There's no cause to keep my salary. Ow.
steve penders		Can you get off the fucking court here?
walter		I'd like to speak to your supervisor.
steve penders		You can't.
walter		I demand to speak to your supervisor.
steve penders		You can't do that either.
walter		I'd like to demand to speak to your supervisor.
steve penders		I don't work at Comcast. I don't have a supervisor you can just talk to. My supervisor is Mark Chatham. He owns The Timms Company. Which is a holding company that holds conglomerates. He's in Los Angeles for the G8 summit, and he wouldn't talk to you anyway even if you were stuck in a fucking elevator. That's my supervisor.
walter		The Purpose of Life--
steve penders		Go.
walter		Hey, fuck you, man.
walter		 What is this?
walter		....Mom?
walter		Hey, did-- did a guy take a picture of your piano? Like a week ago?
edna		Sean?
walter		 ...yeah.
edna		No. I took it. With Sean's camera.
walter		Where did you get Sean's camera?
edna		From Sean. He came to visit.
walter		Sean O'Connell?
edna		He came to visit. To talk about you.
walter		Me?
edna		Yeah. He asked me some questions about you? What your work schedule was, when you left, when you came home. He said you really understood Life. He wanted to know about your work. He said you "got Life."
walter		Do you know where--
edna		He's in Nepal now, I think. Photographing snow leopards. Let me think. Yes. Ship. Iceland. Mogadishu. Nepal. That's what he said.
walter		Man, I've been desperately searching for him. For a long time. Thanks, mom.
edna		I didn't know that. You don't talk about work that often.
walter		I know. I don't want you to worry. It's not always cool and easy. ... why did you take a picture of your piano?
edna		I was concerned we couldn't keep it, Dear. I know it's a burden. I didn't know if we could manage. So I thought I might not see it again. I wanted a picture.
walter		 I have a lot of company.
edna		What did you want to be, when you younger?
walter		...I don't even remember.
edna		Sure you do. Everybody does.
walter		 I have to go somewhere, mom. Possibly I'll be reachable by phone.
walter		What are you?
normal guy		Stay at home dad.
walter		Cool.
normal guy		Congratulations.
walter		Thanks, man.
normal guy		Is that a Grammy? Or a Nobel--
walter		Grammy. Best male R & B vocal performance.
normal guy		Way to go.
walter		You, too.
etihad clerk		There's only one flight to Nepal, in the next 18 hours.
walter		That's okay.
etihad clerk		 But there aren't any seats left.
walter		 None?
etihad clerk		I'm afraid not.
walter		...Not one?
etihad clerk		Well, there's one seat, but...
walter		I'm trying to locate a photographer.
guide		How can I help?
walter		The information I have  is that he's working with a guide named Stepit. Any idea... is that enough of a clue where they might be? I know they're photographing snow leopards, and this is the snow leopard region--
guide		They'll be in the Kosi forest. That's where Stepit was raised. When he's booked it's to go there. It's dangerous. Only he can take you there safely.
walter		I need to go there.
guide		I can take you. For a fee.
walter		Didn't you just say that only that other guy can take you through there? Safely?
guide		 ...Did I say that?
walter		Yes.
guide		I didn't mean that. I meant that only he and I are the guys who can do that.
walter		This way?
guide		Yeah.
walter		Aren't you coming?
guide		I can't walk in the snow. It's hard as shit.  Just go that way.
walter		That's-- that's how you're guiding me? By pointing and saying go that way?
guide		A little-- to the left.  There. Yeah.
walter		...Hello.
eharmony counselor		Hey.
walter		 Hey, Todd.
eharmony counselor		What's up?
walter		Not much.
eharmony counselor		Good news. I think we're going to be able to get you on eHarmony.
walter		Okay. Cool.
eharmony counselor		Your profile has rounded out a little. I put your travels in. There's enough going on in your profile so now we can submit you.
walter		Great, man.
eharmony counselor		Where are you now? It sounds cold.
walter		It even sounds cold?
eharmony counselor		Yeah.
walter		Nepal.
eharmony counselor		Hey, Walter. Why didn't you submit any pictures? Most people have photos of them with friends, out on the town.
walter		I don't really do a lot of, you know, swinging.
eharmony counselor		Swinging?
walter		Yeah.
eharmony counselor		Swinging means fucking married people. When you're married.
walter		Oh. I don't mean that.
eharmony counselor		No.
walter		I meant like partying, I guess. I used to like to be at work at 8. And I have some family demands that keep me pretty busy.
eharmony counselor		Your mom and sister.
walter		Yeah.
eharmony counselor		You know. People don't know they're leaning on you. Until you move. And they fall.
walter		 Are you Chinese? You're so wise.
eharmony counselor		I'm neither. But I know you, Walter. I've been studying you here. You seem to carry a lot of weight.
walter		Well, I'm not going to move and let the people who lean on me fall, because the people who lean on me are my mom and my sister.
eharmony counselor		Are you in a bad mood?
walter		A little.
eharmony counselor		Well, let's keep rounding this profile out. What do you do during your downtime?
walter		I don't get a lot. But I guess if I had to say - mostly I just consider thoughts... for my visions for ideas and scenarios about the world.
eharmony counselor		 You consider thoughts for your visions for ideas and scenarios about the world?
walter		Yeah.
eharmony counselor		You daydream?
sean		...Hey, man, do you mind?
walter		...Sean?
sean		Yeah.
walter		 Hey, I got to go.
eharmony counselor		No problem. Congratulations. You're on eHarmony.
walter		Cool.
sean		Yeah.
walter		Walter. Mitty.
sean		Walter. Seriously. What the fuck? What are you--
walter		I've been looking for you.
sean		Sit down.
walter		Yeah, warming up.
sean		Take your time.
walter		Hey, Sean. I really need that picture. I'm taking a lot of heat at work. Over that.
sean		That negative you asked me about.
walter		Yeah.
sean		12?
walter		Why am I sitting on it?
sean		Because it's in your wallet.
walter		I thought that meant inside the wrapping paper. I never opened it. Goddmanit. The wallet. I left the--
sean		 Shhh...
walter		Oh, yeah...  Fuck.
sean		What?
walter		I-- can you believe it - I just this morning I put it in a receptacle thing.
sean		The picture?
walter		Well, I didn't know I was throwing that out, but... yeah.
sean		The wallet?
walter		I just didn't believe in Life's Purpose anymore. So I fucking  chucked it.
sean		So you have no idea what it is?
walter		No...
sean		The picture?
walter		No.
sean		Do you want to know what it was? It was great.
walter		Oh.
sean		There you go.
walter		...We may have to sell Mom's piano, in order to pay for the Villa. This week.
walter		Yeah.
walter		Yeah.
walter		Almost?
walter		Nothing I just want everyone in the world to be Morgan Freeman. So it would just be me and Morgan Freemans, in the whole world.
walter		You'd be you. But like a combo with him. Just a little calmer, more quiet. Gentler.
walter		Yeah.
walter		Los Angeles.
walter		I'm okay. I'm going to take the train to my hotel. Try to get home tomorrow.
walter		I love you, too.
walter		I'm sorry.
cop		You can't go this way without a summit pass.
walter		What's a summit pass?
walter		I'm trying to get to my hotel.
cop		... protests are on 3rd street.
walter		My boss, the guy who runs my company is here. Is it cool if I talked to him. Am I allowed?
cop		This is America. You can do whatever you want as long as you stay on the far sides of the barricades on 3rd.
walter		There's a work situation I want to clue him in on. I was let go with cause. But there wasn't--
cop		Hey. Keep walking, okay? I've got a job to do.
walter		Sir, can I have two secs? Mr. Chatham, Can I have two secs? I'm a former employee of one of your companies. Mitty?
mark chatham		Where did you work?
walter		The Life corporation. Two secs?
mark chatham		 One minute.
aide		There was a Mitty there, but she's a black woman.
mark chatham		OKAY  Nice try.
walter		Wait. No. I'm Walter Mitty! I'm a man!
police officer		Get the fuck behind the barricade.
walter		 I'm not with them.
walter		I'm Walter Mitty! I'm a man!
protestor		I'm a man!
younger protestors		I'm a man!
working man		...you're goddamned right.
reporter		Known only as "I'm a man Man." This brave protestor was tear-gassed then just "f"ing hammered with nightsticks. I'm sorry I'm losing some professionalism. But this guy just wouldn't back down. Let him get his briefcase. Jeez.
caller		 Like the guy's style. He's just letting the world now "don't walk all over me." Wasn't that on one of our old flags and shit?" He's a human man. Those corporations own the cops, man. You know that. Do you not?
kid		It's I'm a Man Man.
walter		Ulf?
walter		Hey. Walter Mitty. How are you?
walter		 I'm Walter Mitty! I'm enjoying the show!
walter		I love this song. I know all the words.
walter		Sing them out, Walter. Sing out, Man!
police clerk		Make your call.
walter		Um, shoot, I don't have my cell phone. I think I only know like one number by heart.
police clerk		One negative roll. Five photographic prints. One laptop. Stretch Armstrong. Cell phone. An orange.
young man		Walter Mitty?
walter		Yeah.
young man		Todd Mahar. eHarmony.
walter		Do you like working in Los Angeles?
todd mahar		Yeah. Traffic's tough. But it's a cool city. If you get bored here, man, it's your fault.
walter		You look different.
todd mahar		Than what?
walter		Than I pictured. I pictured you wearing an old time judge's wig. The whole time.
todd mahar		The whole time we talked you pictured me in a judge's wig?
walter		Hello?
woman's voice		Hi this is Cynthia Despihg. With Etihad Airlines. Is this Walter Mitty?
walter		Yeah, hey.
woman's voice		We found your wallet. I think.
walter		Yes I'm a Walter Mitty who did that.
woman's voice		We have your wallet. It's at our Los Angeles terminal office.
walter		I'm in Los Angeles. With pancakes.  I don't know why I just said that. I'm excited.
woman's voice		It's exciting to get your wallet back when you thought you lost it.
walter		...for sure.
woman's voice		Maintenance found it in a trash receptacle. You must have ACCIDENTALLY--
walter		Yeah.
woman's voice		Our luggage delivery car can get it to you. She's going out now.
walter		 ...thank you.
walter		Do I look like you pictured?
todd mahar		Yep. Pretty normal looking guy.
walter		Yeah.
walter		What's that?
walter		Yeah. I appreciate it. That was cool of you guys.
todd mahar		 What is it?
walter		I don't know. I don't care. I have it.
ted hendricks		Want to try the Four Seasons?
walter		Mark Chatham?
walter		Hey. Man, I'm sorry. I was hoping I could talk to you for two secs?
mark chatham		Your the guy from TV? I'm a Man Guy?
walter		I don't know. I was in jail. We didn't get TV.
mark chatham		You are.
walter		Can I just talk to you for two secs.?
mark chatham		Not in my room. Because you're freaking me out a little. Can we maybe sit out here. Indian style or something?
walter		There was one absent from the roll. But I have it.
mark chatham		That's the one Sean O'Connell wants for the cover? The Quintessence one?
walter		Yeah. For the last issue. That's the complete roll.
mark chatham		What was in the briefcase? Out on the street, when you were getting cracked in the neck by police sticks.
walter		 Those.
mark chatham		Well, thanks.
walter		That last one's pretty late. Nine days late. There was an unforeseen set of unbelievable shit that happened.
mark chatham		Why do people think that you're a black woman?
walter		I sit way in the back. Maybe that's-
mark chatham		What does tear gas really feel like?
walter		It's a pretty intense burn. It's like having Cajun eyes. Spicy eyes.
mark chatham		I saw you on TV fighting a mailbox.
walter		Was that a question?
mark chatham		Not like in the form that I just said it. But...
walter		I guess I was revved up.
mark chatham		From what?
walter		From fighting with a piano for a month and trying to get someone at my company to evaluate my position there based on understanding what I actually do.
mark chatham		You fight pianos, too?
walter		Not in the way that I fought the mailbox, but just in the way that I've been struggling with one.
mark chatham		 You rode in a car on a boat?
walter		Yes.
mark chatham		You slept on a copier in a business center?
walter		Yes.
mark chatham		You're an interesting guy.
walter		 Someone else told me that. An hour ago. Hey, I don't want to take up too much more of your time. But I'd like my severance. There's no cause to keep it from me. That's what I was trying to tell you downtown. I did my job well for nine years.
mark chatham		That's all you were trying to say downtown?
walter		Yeah.
mark chatham		I'm going to run some numbers.
tim naughton		Tim Naughton? Severance package?
gary mannheim		Gary Mannheim. Same.
walter		Walter Mitty? Is there a... possibly there's a severance package for me?
accounting clerk		It's not really a package. It's just one check. For forty two hundred dollars. That's what everybody's getting.
walter		Okay. Possibly there's that? For me?
odessa		 Hey, babe, come on. We'll go grab lunch.
walter		I'll be right out.
cheryl		How'd the move go?
walter		All done.
cheryl		Everybody's good?
walter		Everybody's good.
cheryl		The company or the... thing.
walter		Both.
cheryl		The company's okay. The thing's tough.
walter		Yeah.
cheryl		Are you glad you're not there anymore?
walter		I'm excited. About the new stuff.
cheryl		What's the new stuff?
walter		I don't know yet. Would you have lunch with me? Somewhere not in the cafeteria. For once. Out somewhere? In the world. I was wondering that.
cheryl		Yeah...
walter		The ninth. Yeah.
cheryl		Yeah, cool.
walter		Yeah.
cheryl		She's good.
walter		Yeah.
****Dialogues from script :Semi-Pro.txt****

drunk lady		Hey Monix, want a sip? Monix is confused, until the woman throws the beer in his face.
drunk lady		 Oops. She and her friends laugh. Monix says nothing. Instead, he holds his aching back and limps up to the foul line, annoyed.
monix		I'll take two. Schnack hands them over. Monix might speak, but he drinks instead.
schnack		So, Monix. The trade went through.
monix		Really?
schnack		You know, you're not exactly a spring chicken anymore...
monix		Just tell me.
schnack		That score board. ANGLE ON: Pieces of an old scoreboard are crammed into the back of the locker room.
schnack		It's a Magnovox.
customer		Hey, wasn't that you just now, there on the TV?
clarence		Yeah, so?
customer		What are you waiting on us for, if you're a basketball star?
clarence		Who the Hell areyou,the barbecue police? Tell youwhat,I've got the note pad, so I'llaskthe questions: Do youwanta baked potato with that?
customer		The TV said your name was Sugar Dunkerton. How come your name-tag doesn't say that?
clarence		'Cause I changed my name, that's why.
customer woman		 Downtown Funky-Stuff Malone?
clarence		You like it?
customer woman		I guess it's fine.
clarence		It ain't fine.  It's fine...
clarence		Shit.  It's been a pleasure serving you. Clarence tosses his note pad on the table and his Mother tosses him his duffle bag.
clarence		Stay outta my stuff!
clarence		Panties are silk. Briefs are cotton. I'm out of here.
opposing player		 Hey there son, what's your name?
wheelchair darren		Fuck you, Mitchstien.
wheelchair jody		Yeah. Throw any elbows tonight and we'll pound your fuckin' head into the floor.
jackie moon		I'm living a dream, Flint and I know you are too.  AT GUARD, from Peoria Illinois, six foot one -- this guy's single and he can cook lasagna, I've seen him do it -- TWIGGY -- MUNSONNNNNNN! Bobby Dee hits the disco ball as TWIGGY trots out.
jackie moon		FROM SOUTH BEND INDIANA, the man with a heart of gold, his brother's a retard, six foot one, he drives down to visit all the time, at forward, he reads to him, BEE BEE
jackie moon		YOUR MAN IN THE MIDDLE. Seven foot two, from the People's Republic of Uzbechistan, he's tall, he's sensitive -- loves candle light and long walks on the beach -- VAKIDIS
jackie moon		Now this next guy, where do I start? First of all, that wife of his, she is... Wow.  CANONS, people. If you know what I'm saying. I don't think she's here tonight, but if she was you'd see what I'm talking about.
jackie moon		AND FINALLY: The man you've been waiting for, six foot four, a solid, meaty, two hundred fifteen pounds, your pre-game announcer, your owner, your coach, your pop singing sensation, but most importantly, your POWER FORWARD... Yours truly... JACKIE M00000000N!!! Jackie takes off his blazer, twirls it, then tosses it off screen. It's game time. At center court, PLAYER/OWNER/COACH JACKIE huddles them up.
jackie moon		Alright you guys, let's huddle up!  Vakidis! Where's he walking to? Kong, get Vakidis. A very short Asian man, KONG, nods. The uniform hangs on his tiny body.
kong		You got it boss.
jackie moon		 Let's put on a good show tonight, okay? Let's keep it in the air, keep shooting, look for the baseball pass, launch some early threes to set the tone. Bee Bee, try and do that no-look behind your back thing, I love that, okay? Now let's bring it in. One two three--
jackie moon		 Hey, you lose weight, Father Pat?
jackie moon		For safety. Just then, Vakidis jogs over, SLIPPING HORRIBLY in the puddle, ripping his groin.
ravi		What?
jackie moon		Enough with the cheese already. More chips, less cheese, how many times do I have to tell you? WHISTLE! Jackie's been walking with the ball. FATHER PAT THE REF wears a holy collar with pin strips over it.
jackie moon		Traveling!?... On who?
jackie moon		That's bullshit, Father Pat! Jackie, furious, SLAMS THE BALL down on the floor.
jackie moon		Yes! Nice first half guys! That's what I call Flint Tropic's basketball!
jackie moon		Let's stay focused on the four
clarence		Yo, Jackie, is the washing machine broken? ANGLE ON: A few workers are taking out the washing machine.
jackie moon		Listen up guys: I've got some good news and I've got some bad news. The good news is, we're getting rid of that piece of shit washing machine. The bad news is, everyone does their laundry at home from now on. Towels too. Everyone complains. Boo etc. Jackie turns to BOBBY DEE a 'front office' guy.
jackie moon		And Bobby Dee, I need you to clean out your desk.
bobby dee		No. I have kids.
jackie moon		You're not fired. I sold your desk.
bobby dee		Oh.
jackie moon		 And I'm going to shed a few lockers, so everyone's getting a locker buddy.
clarence		Forget that. I need my own locker... For the panty dropper. Clarence reveals his 'panty dropper' a brown full-length leather coat.
jackie moon		Fine. Now, there's one last thing: I've added some depth to the roster. I think he could deliver some firepower.
clarence		Firepower? Who'd you hire?
jackie moon		At guard, six one, the hometown kid, from your very own Flint Michigan -- He punches in bunches Ed MONIXXXXXXXX! We hear a TOILET FLUSH. Monix exits the bathroom stall buttoning his pants.
monix		You're out of toilet paper. Monix doesn't receive a warm welcome. It's more of a stare- off.
jackie moon		Okay, now, I know everyone in this room has probably been punched in the face by Monix at one time or another.  One of you may have even had your collar bone broken, twice. But that's in the past now and-
jackie moon		Thanks Bobby.  Anyways, welcome aboard.
monix		So. Who wants to be my locker buddy?
jackie moon		Ladies and Gentleman, this man is about to attempt the impossible. The $10,000 full court shot. So, tell me, what's your name?
dukes		Dukes.
jackie moon		Okay, Dukes. You feeling it?
dukes		Yeah dude.
jackie moon		What are you going to spend all of your money on if you win? A shirt?
dukes		Yeah man, a shirt. Ha! Whoooo!
jackie moon		Okay people, Dukes is excited. Let's get some clapping going as he prepares himself for the impossible.  This is drama, folks! C'mon now, let's hear it! The $10,000 shot people, let's hear it!!! For the first time, Dukes looks kind of serious. He sizes up the distant hoop...
jackie moon		 He looks ready... And... Here he goes! An uncoordinated baseball pass... Sailing off into the distance... And...
jackie moon		Shit.
jackie moon		 Did he step on the line?
jackie moon		Who the Hell has $10,000? I sure he stepped on the line, you know what I'm saying?
jackie moon		 Fuck me.
kyle		Hey honey, guess who got traded to Flint?
lynn		I don't know, who?
kyle		Monix. The word Monix stops her in her tracks.
lynn		Monix?
kyle		Yeah! He's already got an NBA ring, but he's still playing... In Flint. Can you believe it?
lynn		No, I can't. Lynn closes her book, fidgety...
kyle		They say he asked to be traded. Who the Hell leaves California to come here? I love this guy.
jackie moon		 Get the funk outta-of-my-face... A SIGN SAYS: THE KREMLIN. Jackie rolls up and parks in a reserved parking space. He rolls up the windows and locks the doors by hand and exits.
cop		What's up Jackie?
jackie moon		Not much.
cop		 Your knees okay?
jackie moon		Oh yeah. Just icing them down.
jackie moon		Well look at you! You look beautiful. What's different?
jackie moon		No, that's not it... Did your tits get bigger?
jackie moon		Don't lie to me. Those things got bigger.
jackie moon		Well, good job. Jackie keeps walking, bumping into MS. QUINCY, Clarence's mother.
jackie moon		Oh. It's okay, Lucy and I've got an open relationship.
jackie moon		She's hot right? What can I say, we're freedom lovers.  Hey honey! Lucy Moon ignores him, only making out harder.
jackie moon		 I'm not jealous. It's a sweet deal for both of us.
jackie moon		I could. That's the beauty of it. No ball and chain here.
jackie moon		Pshh. Are you kidding? When haven't I been?
monix		I don't know, but it can't be good.
twiggy munson		Hey, let's see that championship ring, Monix.
monix		Look at this piece. It says Celtics right there in diamonds.
monix		I don't know, I just like to wear it around my neck, that's all. NOW CLARENCE chimes in without looking over...
clarence		Not everyone sits around dreaming of playing in the NBA, you know.
twiggy munson		Yeah, that's all you ever talk about.
monix		You're not jealous, are you Clarence?
clarence		No one calls me Clarence.
monix		Okay Downtown. I'll make sure Downtown is only referred to as Downtown, okay Downtown?
clarence		Don't think I don't know what you're doing. You're doing that thing where you pretend to mean what you say, but you don't.
clarence		Yeah. How'd you like that sarcasm smacked off your face?
monix		Bring it, funky stuff.
clarence		 I got this, alright? Monix squares off with a smile that says 'hit me.' Clarence takes off his leather full length and folds it nicely.
clarence		 How'd you like a knuckle sandwich?
monix		Knuckle sandwich? Who says that?
clarence		I do motherfucker. I'm gonna pound you so hard, you're-- MONIX REARS HIS FIST BACK, about to release a strong Popeye
gayle		Excuse me boys. You mind, if I borrow your friend for a minute?
jackie moon		 Hold on a second.
melinda		What's wrong?
jackie moon		Where's the boogie? Jackie fights his way through the crowd to the DJ booth.
jackie moon		 The year was 1973. A young musician named Jackie Moon, finishes years of musical training, only to find he is a slave to the notes on the page. He knows it's time to break free. In a sudden fit of creative mastery, he grabs a pen and a napkin and writes a song that breaks all the rules. Ladies and gentleman... Let's get sweaty. MUSIC CUE: Jackie's song. Everyone goes crazy.
gayle		I'm glad they traded for you, I got myself a cute one.
monix		So, this is the Daiquiri room?
lucy moon		What do you think, Gayle? Does he like it with my boots on, or does he like my boots off?
gayle		He seems like a boots on kind of guy.
lucy moon		Then it looks like I'm ready. As soon as you slide these shorts off of me.
monix		Aren't you Jackie's wife?
lucy moon		He knows about the Daiquiri room.
gayle		It's a new tradition we're starting, when new players join.
monix		I see. Well, I'm going to have to pass. I'm good, thanks.
lucy moon		Honey, you don't know what good is. With that, Lucy flicks on the stereo--
monix		Listen um... 
gayle		My name is 'no strings attached.'
lucy moon		You can call me Mrs. Moon. Gayle and Lucy perform a funky/seductive dance, moving closer and closer to Monix.
monix		I don't think this is going to happen, Mrs. Moon.
lucy moon		It has to.
gayle		It's bad luck if you don't.
monix		Yeah, I'd hate to bring bad luck to Flint Michigan. Lucy has sprayed some WHIP CREAM on her nipples.
lucy moon		 Why don't you lick these clean for me?
monix		I can't eat dairy. Lucy decides that now is a good time to aggressively KISS him. Monix pushes her away.
monix		Nice tits, Mrs. Moon. I gotta go. Monix walks down the stairs.
lucy moon		 I see what this is: You want us to send Eric and Marcus up here? On the way out, Monix flicks her off.
lynn		Why are you here?
monix		I got traded.
lynn		I mean, why are you here?
monix		Can we talk?
monix		Yeah. Sorry man--
kyle		What's up! That of jump shot of yours ain't broke yet, is it?
monix		No. Ha.
kyle		Great back door cut for the lay-up in the third. That's how basketball should be played.
monix		Kyle, can you give us a second? We need to talk.
kyle		No problem. Great game tonight man.
monix		Why does your boyfriend like me so much?
lynn		You're his favorite player.
monix		Look, there are still some things I think we need to talk about.
lynn		I've already said everything I'm ever going to say to you.
monix		I see.
monix		You're really not going to stop me?
lynn		No. Monix walks more, until Lynn speaks.
lynn		You're going to end up walking with a cane the rest of your life. You have to quit.
monix		And do what?
lynn		I don't know... Kill yourself, I guess.
monix		Kill myself?
lynn		You act like there's nothing else in the world besides basketball. If that's how you really feel, then go ahead and get it over with. I'm going to sleep.
monix		Thanks for the pep. talk.
lynn		No problem.
monix		Lynn.  Can I ask you for one favor?
lynn		You want a favor?
monix		My knee.
lynn		Oh, Jesus Christ Monix. It's 4 a.m. Lynn stares at him in disbelief. Monix shrugs.
monix		No one here can drain it right.
lynn		Fine. Monix nods, then makes a move toward the door.
lynn		No. You're not coming in. We'll do it in the yard.
jackie moon		(into the rear view, very
jackie moon		Your Mom would be proud of you today.
commish		.I'm sure each of you have heard the rumors. And I'm here to tell you, the rumors are true. The ABA will be merging with the NBA at the end of this season.
commish		Our league is sold. And the NBA agreed to all of our financial demands! Now Jackie turns inward, more quietly intense. This is, without question, the greatest moment of his life.
jackie moon		 You're a real owner. You're in the
commish		Four of our teams will be absorbed into the NBA family, the rest of you will terminate operations.
jackie moon		Exactly! You know it!  I'm sorry, wait, what?
commish		The Nuggets, The Nets, The Spurs and the Pacers will play in the NBA next year. The rest of us will dissolve.
jackie moon		Dissolve? Dissolve, like, how? How do I dissolve into the NBA? The winning owners look at each other, not sure how to handle Jackie.
jackie moon		What's happening?
commish		I'm sorry Jackie. We all know how. emotional you get. We waited until the very last second to tell you. Jackie pounds the table.
jackie moon		No. NO! NO!!! He kicks over his chair...
the commish		We know you're upset, Jackie. But you'll be very well compensated.
jackie moon		I don't want a sum! I want my team!  C'mon you guys, you're not going to just sit here and take the money, are you? They are.
jackie moon		 What do the Spurs have that we don't?
the commish		A huge fan base. A brand new stadium. A solid economic growth package, including strong tax incentives.
jackie moon		Oh, c'mon, that's BULLSHIT!
commish		The NBA is taking four teams, Jackie, there's nothing I can do. Jackie goes quiet, thinking... An epic idea hits him.
jackie moon		The best four teams should go.
commish		What?
jackie moon		Forget the huge fan base, the stadiums, the economic...  Growing... package... inventions...
commish		These four teams DO have the best records. Flint's only won six games all year!
jackie moon		So far. The season isn't over.
commish		This plan sounds like a lot of fun, but it's too late. The commissioner, me, has already decided.
jackie moon		YES. That's right. What he said.
jackie moon		C'mon you guys, let's try to stay psyched. This is a chance to become a real NBA franchise!
clarence		There's no way we can make it to fourth place. It's mathematically impossible.
jackie moon		I ran the numbers. All we have to do is win about eighty-two percent of our remaining games.
clarence		Eighty-two percent? Isn't that a lot?
jackie moon		Oh, c'mon! We just gotta start hitting our threes.  Listen, I know this seems like bad news, but it doesn't have to be. This is a big road trip for us. We've just got to start playing solid Flint basketball.
jackie moon		 Sorry.
jackie moon		We do not suck, okay? We just have to want it!
monix		I think we suck.
jackie moon		Well... See, now there's some team unity! Now let's load up the jet. REVEAL: A SHITTY SCHOOL BUS has the words 'THE JET!' Spray- painted in graffiti letters with a palm tree next to it.
jackie moon		 Now we've got a special treat. You know I take care of my family. Today, the Jet is catered. I had Downtown's Mom pack us some hot dish.
jackie moon		Sorry Scootsie.
twiggy munson		Hey Jackie, there's some dude out there, wants to talk to you. POV: Out the window, we can see DUKES, the full court shot winner, holding his GIANT CHECK and looking into the bus. He's still shirtless, with a star-spangled headband.
dukes		I tried Jackie. They won't take it. They said it's 'symbolic.'
jackie moon		What does symbolic mean?
dukes		I don't know. But they said I need a real check.
jackie moon		I don't know what your bank is talking about. That is a real check. I signed it myself.
dukes		It's written in glitter, dude. Can't you just give me, like, a regular sized one?
jackie moon		I don't get it. People are usually able to cash these. Maybe you should try another bank.  If you run into any more trouble, let me know.
dukes		Okay Jackie, thanks man.
jackie moon		Any time, congratulations. Jackie turns away from Dukes and exhales, walking back to the bus.
monix		So, Clarence, what's in this 'hot dish' anyway?
clarence		My Mom cooked your ass a whole Damn meal, why you gotta go asking what's in it?
monix		It's a compliment. It's good.
clarence		If it's good, then it's good. Why do you gotta know what's in it? What's in hot dish? Hot dish is in hot dish, asshole. BEE BEE and SCOOTSIE look over the seat, facing them.
monix		They were fast.
monix		 Fast up here.
monix		Well, you have to be able to jump too.
monix		Not right now, okay Twiggy?
clarence		Isn't it a little embarrassing wearing that thing everyday?
monix		Embarrassing?
clarence		You call yourself a Celtic? You sat through every single playoff game. You didn't see action once. And now you walk around wearing the ice like you're Bill Russel. Well you ain't.
clarence		Whatever. At least I never sat on the bench and then called myself a champion. You didn't do shit for that Celtic team. If I was Dave Cowens, I'd yank that ring right off your neck. That was a pretty heated exchange. Monix looks like he's got something to say, but he doesn't. Clarence has the last word.
clarence		He doesn't wear it on his finger because he knows he didn't earn it. He didn't even play.
jackie moon		Alright. Now, a lot of people out there are writing us off. A lot people are saying things like 'Jackie Moon is an offensive liability.' They're saying 'Flint's turnovers led to sixty fast break points per game.'  They're saying 'Bee Bee's retarded brother is so retarded that his eyes look too big,. Like a French Bulldog.
jackie moon		 Yes they did. And we're going to use it as motivation, okay? THIS IS
jackie moon		OH, C'MON!? Where's the charge, Father Pat?
jackie moon		What!? What did I say? Jackie takes a ball and drop kicks it, PUNTING IT high up into the rafters.
clarence		I ain't guarding my guy anymore.
clarence		He's too'Damn sweaty, man.  Look at me.
monix		Quit talking and play defense! The sweaty guy backs in on Clarence, posting up top.
clarence		Right on! I'm open baby! Try a behind-the-back! Monix delivers a nice two handed bounce pass, but Clarence isn't ready for anything fundamentally sound -- The ball hits him in the nuts.
clarence		Ah, shit.
monix		Ice? What for?
clarence		I don't know, it's free. Clarence takes some ice, pops it in his mouth and starts crunching.
clarence		Want some?
monix		No thanks. Now BEE BEE enters, yet another player in the small room.
monix		You turned off the Celtics?
clarence		I don't watch people play basketball. They watch me. With that, Clarence pulls out a JOINT and lights it.
monix		 What the Hell is that?
clarence		 It's a fucking Egg-McMuffin. Monix opens the window, clearing the pot smoke out of his face. JACKIE EXITS the bathroom, having just taken a shower. He's wearing a very small robe. This is now the fourth player who's sleeping in this tiny room.
monix		Why don't you shower in your room?
jackie moon		My wife is using it. I'll be crashing with you guys tonight.
monix		Jackie, have you ever even slept with your wife?
monix		Sounds like a great arrangement.
jackie moon		You guys need to wake up. Quit living like it's the 1950's, man. Live it up.  Hey Clarence, let's have some of that smoke, bro.
monix		I'm pretty sure we have a game tomorrow.
jackie moon		 This stuff won't affect you. It's premium. Jackie finishes inhaling, then holds it out for Monix. He stares at the joint, then around the room at his teammates.
monix		Well, if this is really going to be my life, I might as well be stoned like everyone else.
jackie moon		Well said. Monix takes the stupid joint. The instant Monix inhales he
monix		What the Hell is this?
clarence		What do you mean?
monix		It's harsh.
clarence		Take that back.
monix		Take what back?
jackie moon		His Mom grows it.
clarence		Yeah, in the yard.
monix		Your Mom grew this?
clarence		It's sweet grass.
monix		Well, I'm finished, thanks.
clarence		What's wrong, my Mom's weed ain't good enough for you?
monix		I guess not.
jackie moon		C'mon man, have some respect for his Mom's weed.
clarence		That's it, I ain't sleeping in the same bed as this motherfucker.
amigo manager		You want all the fans to sit on one side of the stadium?
jackie moon		Yeah, just move all those people over to this side.
amigo manager		Actually, that's not a bad idea. MEANWHILE, ON THE COURT: Both teams are warming up. Clarence now has a new name on his Jersey. There are so many words, there is barely space for a number. It's a mess.
clarence		 Check it out. I sewed it on the bus.
clarence		Jumping Johnny Johnson. The asshole, PETRELLI, wanders over near the Tropics side of the court.
petrelli		Yo, Granny Yarn Barn, how's the needle point going?
clarence		Kiss my ass, Petrelli.
petrelli		 Hey man, I think you spelled 'Flint sucks balls' wrong.
monix		No one calls him Clarence. His name
clarence		Jumping Johnny Johnson.
monix		His name's Jumping Johnny Johnson.  You got that? Jackie hurries over.
jackie moon		Alright, break it up.  Everyone huddle up!... VAKIDIS! OVER HERE. Where is he walking to?
jackie moon		Hey! You guys want to merge or not? Because the fastest way to screw this up is to start punching people in the face while the commissioner is at home, watching the game with his kids... Children are very impressionable. Their minds are not yet soiled by the cruel realities of this world.
jackie moon		No punching. Behind the huddle, FANS BEGIN WALKING RIGHT ACROSS THE COURT. Both teams turn to watch this strange thing. The Amigos manager leads the herd, Jackie helps out, directing them across to the other side.
monix		That's a moving pick Father Pat! C'mon!
petrelli		What's wrong Monix, cat got your 'nads? Monix faces off.
monix		What about commercials?
jackie moon		What?
monix		Commercials, what about commercials? Jackie thinks about this, then nods 'good idea.'
jackie moon		I like it. Time out Ref!
camera man		 And... You're clear.
kong		Hi-Ya!
camera man		And we're back in -5- 
jackie moon		Okay, solid first half guys, but we're going to have to make some
monix		--This is bullshit guys. They're kicking our ass in basketball and they're kicking our ass during the commercials, too. Does anybody here understand the concept of the pick and roll? Because they're going to keep double teaming at the top of the key until somebody rotates the Damn ball...
jackie moon		Yeah! C'mon guys! Rotate the ball. Monix looks at this group and gets even madder.
monix		Does anyone in this room have any pride? Don't you realize, this is thelast four weeks of basketball anyus are ever going to play?Is thishow we're really going togo out?You'd think we'd want toend ourcareers battling, hustling after every loose ball. Boxing out under the boards. Setting picks for our teammates. But we haven't done shit out there. Twiggy Munson and Scootsie Double-Day hang their heads.
monix		We're a bunch of selfish assholes -- And I've got news for you, we aren't going to finish in fourth, we're going to finish dead last. Monix paces in front of the guys, a man possessed.
monix		One day, you're going to look back on your life... And you're going to look back on this time... And you're going to realize... Monix is staring right at Clarence. And Clarence is actually listening...
monix		.You're going to realize you never even played basketball. A moment of silence after the intensity. Monix waddles to the door.
monix		Now, you guys have fun out there in the second half. If anyone needs me, I'll be in the training room, draining my knee. Monix limps off, everyone's head is hanging low.
jackie moon		 Dukes! I don't make the rules. If they can't cash it, maybe you'll have to go out of state.
clarence		Why do we have to put the court together?
clarence		Monix should be here helping us.
jackie moon		The commissioner just called.
clarence		What's wrong?
jackie moon		I looks like we've got ourselves a situation. We've got some new 'terms and conditions' for this merger deal.
jackie moon		Basically, we've got to average at least 2,000 fans per home game for the rest of the year.
twiggy munson		2,000 people? Every home game?
jackie moon		He said the NBA will only take a franchise that has fans.
clarence		Shit. Winning is going to be hard. But getting 2,000 people to watch is going to be impossible.
jackie moon		Let's try and stay positive. My Mother always believed Flint was a town of destiny. And I believe that. Now, I've already started work on a huge idea to promote us.
clarence		What kind of huge idea?
monix		Two more Johnny Walkers. And another pack of Kools.
bartender		You could use some fresh air, Monix. You want to take a nap in the back of my truck?
bartender		She asked me to tell you to quit going to her house.
monix		Well, tell her that's just fine with me.
bartender		Okay. Sorry man.
monix		Well, well, well, look who it is.  Brian, I'd like you to meet Jumping Johnny Downtown Funky stuff Boner- time finger-blast Fag-erton.
clarence		 Two coffees.
monix		So, what brings you to the The Kremlin?
clarence		Listen, I know you and I haven't always been the best of buddies.
monix		I hate to break it to you, Clarence, but the Tropics will never play in the NBA.
clarence		So maybe we won't. But like you said, I don't want to look back on this with any regrets. I know what you think of me. But I'm willing to put our differences aside. I'm telling you right now, I'll do whatever it takes to win.
monix		You mean, like, pass?
clarence		 I would consider passing, yes.
monix		Sorry kid. Even if I wanted to play harder, this knee won't let me.
clarence		I'm not just talking about you playing point guard... I'm talking about you teaching us... Monix could not be less interested.
clarence		Monix, you know more about basketball than any man who's ever set foot in Flint. Monix drinks, not into it...
clarence		All I'm saying is, instead of getting so pissed off at us all the time, why not just show us what the Hell you're talking about? Coach us a little. I mean, we can't get any worse.
monix		And why should I give a shit about the Tropics?
clarence		I know you. You've got all that basketball shit stored up in your head. I know you're dying to pass it down to somebody. Why not us?
monix		What about Jackie? He's the coach.
clarence		Jackie's got his hands full, trying to sell tickets. He's obsessed. 
monix		 Two more Johnny Walkers.
clarence		So that's the way it's going to be? Monix doesn't answer, he just drinks. Clarence gets the hint and walks out.
lynn		Looking good Monix.
monix		Thanks. You too.
lynn		Ms. Quincy told me the Tropics asked you to coach them.
monix		I know what it takes to be a real team, Lynn.
lynn		 Stay still.
monix		It doesn't matter. The truth is, I hate basketball right now.
lynn		Do you really hate basketball? Or do you hate yourself?
monix		Why would I hate myself?
lynn		Well, for one, you cheated on me.
monix		You hate me for that. Not me. Lynn just stares at him.
monix		Okay, maybe I hate myself a little.
lynn		You don't wear the ring around your neck anymore.  Where is it?
monix		I rode the bench through the playoffs, Lynn.
lynn		Monix, that was greatest moment of your career. And you look back on it like some kind of embarrassment.
monix		Riding the bench was the greatest moment of my career?
lynn		You did more than ride the bench, Monix.
monix		What else did I do?
lynn		Every practice, you took your team to the limit. I know you did. I was the one draining this stupid knee of yours every night. The Celtics were practicing against you, Monix. And when you ran that scout team, you were running Milwaukee's offense better than their first stringers ever could. Lynn continues the business of disposing fluid into the toilet and preparing another syringe.
lynn		By game time, your team knew where Milwaukee was going to be before their own players did. The Celtics made the right adjustments to win that series. And those adjustments came from you.
monix		So, I should be proud of running the scout team?
lynn		Dave Cowens put that ring in the palm of your hand. And he told you to wear it with pride, because you were a champion. And he meant it too.
monix		He was being a nice guy. The bench is the bench.
lynn		Your whole life, you've bitched about people playing selfish. It takes a team to win, right?
monix		That's right.
lynn		But when you're on the team, your effort doesn't count? Is that it?
monix		Watch that needle.
lynn		Answer me. Would they have won?
monix		I don't know.
lynn		Yes you do. You know. Monix looks away for a moment.
monix		Why are you doing this? What does any of this matter, anyway?
lynn		What's it matter? You're drinking yourself to death!
lynn		I made sacrifices! How many years did I support you? And finally, after all of our blood and sweat and bullshit together, you got there, Monix! You made it, you won an NBA championship ring. It wasn't just about you, okay? And I'm sick of you acting like you're some kind of joke. You didn't blow it. You're not a fraud. You're not a fake champion. And all the time we spent together, fighting for you to get to that moment, was not a waste! You're a champion, you asshole!
jackie moon		Nice leg kick Kong. Those flexible hips are a coach's dream.
clarence		Are we going to practice or what?
jackie moon		This is practice, okay Clarence? We need to get two thousand people in here! Our intro dance has to blow people's minds. He begins pacing around, more passionate than ever...
jackie moon		From now on, I want our afros bigger... And shinier ... . I want our shorts shorter... And tighter... We're going to pull our tube socks up higher than we ever have before. The team seems to be looking off screen.
jackie moon		What's wrong?
jackie moon		Hey, you're back! Listen, you should probably chalk your hands up for this number.
clarence		Jackie, I asked Monix to coach us.
jackie moon		Coach? Jackie is totally thrown by this. He looks around at the team. Clearly, a decision has been made.
jackie moon		What do you mean, coach?  It's a Mutiny.
clarence		Jackie. Don't be like that.
jackie moon		Hold on a second. Last time I checked, we didn't live in Flint, Russia. We live in Flint, America. I'm coach until a new one is elected.
clarence		Don't make us elect Monix, man.  Alright, show of hands. Who wants Monix to step in as player-coach? Everyone feels bad, but they all raise their hands.
jackie moon		Please God No.
twiggy munson		Sorry Jackie.
jackie moon		 It's cool. I get it. I'm a big boy, I can handle it.
clarence		Don't take it so hard, Jackie. You're a great owner. We all know that.
jackie moon		Woah. Hold on. Did you just say 'great owner?'
clarence		Yeah. Everyone thinks so.
jackie moon		Now, when you said great owner, were you just saying that? Because it's not cool to mess with me about this.
clarence		We mean it. For real. Monix is just more of an X's and O's kind of guy, that's all. Jackie is emotional. It's a bittersweet moment. He takes off his whistle, then walks over and hands Monix his whistle.
jackie moon		 Here. You may need this. Now he pulls out a bunch of crazy notes on loose paper written in ball point pen. The pages look insane.
jackie moon		 And here are some ideas for plays I've jotted down. Just thoughts.
monix		Thanks Jackie.  The way I see it, any team in this league can put together a run. Most of our opponents are all flash. If we play unselfish, fundamental basketball, we can win games.
jackie moon		I like it. Unselfish, guys.
monix		Yes. Unselfish. Unselfish meaning tough team defense, full and half court traps, boxing your man out to help the team rebound.
jackie moon		Wait, so, what's going on with the blow jobs?
jackie moon		 All in favor? Everyone raises their hands in favor of blow jobs.
clarence		Would everyone let the man talk please? Clarence is serious. This shuts everyone up.
monix		The most important work we do on the court is away from the basketball. Monix FLIPS OPEN A SWITCH BLADE KNIFE AND STABS THE BALL, deflating it. This gets everyone's attention.
monix		 Until you start moving like a real team, you practice without a ball.
monix		Alright, Clarence, run the offense.
clarence		I don't get it.
monix		Set a pick for somebody. Clarence jogs over and stands next a scout team opponent.
monix		Okay, that's kind of a pick, I guess. Try standing on the other side of Scootsie's man, so you free him up to cut into the lane. Monix corrects Clarence, moving his body the way he wants him to stand.
monix		Widen your stance. Plant your feet. Hands back. Like this. Now Scootsie GO. Set a pick for Jackie. Scootsie cuts across the lane. The team slowly gets i rotating faster.
monix		Now Jackie pick Bee Bee's man, and rotate to the rim like this... Everyone move to the open space. And Clarence you swing back out up top. They've completed the play. Monix stands there, smiling. The players look at each other, what's the big deal?
monix		You know what that was?
clarence		What.
monix		A flash to the high side post with an outside screen and a back door cut. Let's do it again.
monix		I'm saving my knee for the games. Coach's decision. NOW RUN. Clarence sets a screen for Scootsie and they perform the same basic rotation.
monix		 We're not just rotating, we're clearing out, making space. A pass and cut can change defensive match- ups. Creating seams can give us back door looks. Down screens can make a team vulnerable to penetration.
jackie moon		Hold on. I'm lost.
twiggy munson		Yeah, what are we, building some kind of basketball space. ship?
monix		You don't have to understand it yet. Just run it again. You heard me -- AGAIN.
clarence		We've been running this play for a long time, man.
jackie moon		Yeah, maybe we could try, like, play number two.
monix		No. We're running this play. We're running this play until we puke.
jackie moon		Yeah, I'm pretty beat.
monix		'Until we puke' is not a figure of speech. We are literally going to puke.
jackie moon		What does he mean by 'literally?'
clarence		I think he's talking about vomit.
jackie moon		Monix, can I talk to you for .a second?
monix		No. No talking.
jackie moon		Wait...
monix		 We need to get in shape fellas. And we need to learn some fundamentals quick. -- AGAIN! They run it again, getting more and more winded.
monix		I want you to be brain dead. Because someday you're going to be too tired, or too nervous to think - - AGAIN! And when you are, this is the play I'm going to call. The play that your lungs and legs will have memorized. We will be able to run this in our sleep. Clarence tries to gag himself with his fingers.
monix		HEY! No sticking your fingers down your throat, Clarence, I saw that. You're going to puke. And it's going to be all natural -- AGAIN!
jackie moon		You're fired!
monix		Fuck you.
jackie moon		Fuck you.
monix		Get up and run. You're going to puke like everybody else.
jackie moon		Monix, I need to talk to you.
monix		We'll. talk after you puke. GO!
jackie moon		I can't puke Monix!
monix		Yes you can. Go. Jackie crawls harder along the hardwood.
jackie moon		Monix! You don't understand. I've never thrown up in my life.
monix		What are you talking about?
jackie moon		I've never puked. Ever.
monix		That makes no sense. Everyone has thrown up before.
jackie moon		I haven't. I swear to God. I can eat anything. I can drink anything. I've been sick, but I've never puked. I swear to God.
monix		That's bullshit. Keep moving, you're going to puke.
jackie moon		I don't puke. I can't do it! It's the truth! I swear on my Mother's grave. At this point, Monix can't help but be intrigued.
monix		What about when you were a baby? Babies throw up all the time.
jackie moon		My Mom said I never did. I swear. She said I was fascinating.
monix		No way.
jackie moon		You can call my Dad! I've never puked. When Jackie looks up at Monix, it's clear he is not lying.
monix		Isn't that kind of dangerous?
jackie moon		What do you mean?
monix		What happens if you swallow poison?
jackie moon		I don't know. I ate bad sausage before. But nothing happened.
monix		Stand up. Jackie manages to stand up.
monix		Have you ever been punched in the Jejunum?
jackie moon		I don't know. What's a Jejunum?
monix		It's part of your small intestine.
jackie moon		I don't know. I doubt--
jackie moon		 Mom?
monix		You okay? Jackie is about to speak, but then takes stock of his feelings. There is now an air of tranquility about him. Reborn. He's almost Euphoric...
jackie moon		I'm beautiful.
monix		 Listen up. I'll in-bound. Clarence, protect the ball and penetrate if you can. Kick it out to Scootsie or me and everyone crash the boards hard. Looking good, we're thirty seconds away from taking this one home. Let's bring it in.
jackie moon		He's right guys. But remember, we want to win, but not by too much.
twiggy munson		We don't want to win by too much?
monix		What the Hell is he talking about?
clarence		He's worried about the corn dogs.
monix		What?
clarence		If we score a hundred points, everyone gets a free corn dog. There are signs everywhere.
jackie moon		I'm sorry, Monix, but we don't even have corn dogs.
monix		I don't give a shit. We're taking it to them.
jackie moon		We're up by seven, Monix. Can't we just take it easy? We're talking about a lot of corn dogs here.
monix		I don't give a shit about the corn dogs, okay? We play hard every second. We're running the offense. Everyone got that? Everyone nods. WHISTLE!
jackie moon		Shit.
jackie moon		I asked you up to the Daiquiri room, because this is a private matter.  As you know, I threw up recently.
jackie moon		In this bag, is ten thousand dollars.
dukes		No way. Really?
jackie moon		Actually, it's twenty three hundred. But I'm going to pay you the rest. The Tropics will not let you down. From now on, I want my conscience clear.
dukes		Wow. Thanks Jackie.
jackie moon		Can I confess something to everyone? It's something I've never told anybody.
clarence		What is it?
jackie moon		You know my song 'Love Me Sexy?'
jackie moon		I stole it.
twiggy munson		No.
jackie moon		It's true.  My Mom wrote it. Three weeks before she died. And I stole it. Even Monix is fascinated by this.
jackie moon		No, she wrote it on a napkin. I duped the whole world. I'm nothing but a fraud.
clarence		Damn. VJ day? That's cold.
jackie moon		 And even on that day, I don't feel like it's me who's sleeping with her.
jackie moon		She married me because of my song, but I didn't write it. So sometimes I feel like it's not even me who's with her.  Deep down, I feel like it's really my Mom who is making love to her. When I hold Lucy's supple breasts in my hands, they are my Mom's hands. When I eat a pair of edible panties off of her, they are my Mom's teeth.
dukes		That's pretty weird.
jackie moon		I'm living in a prison, Dukes.
clarence		Why don't you write a song yourself? Then you wouldn't feel like a fake any more.
jackie moon		Oh please! I could never write anything as brilliant as 'Love Me Sexy!' . -PRE GAME: The Tropics do their 'intro dance.' They perform the waterfall down into.a cool pose. The crowd loves it. -TROPIC HIGHLIGHTS: They run a fast break weave, Monix makes the layup. Clarence penetrates and dishes to Jackie for a pull up jumper. -THE TROPICAL AISLE: Fat people in Hawaiian shirts go crazy. A lady chucks her nachos at the other team. -RESULTS: The scoreboard shows a Tropics win. -ATTENDANCE: A clicker counts up to 182 fans. -MORE INTRO EXCITEMENT: Jackie introduces his starting five.
jackie moon		 And at guard, six foot two. Formerly known as Clarence Withers, and Sugar Dunkerton, and Downtown Funky Stuff Malone, and Jumping Johnny Johnson -- He's launching his new name tonight -- Put your hands together for: COFFEE BLACK. Clarence jogs out with Coffee Black sewn into his jersey...
jackie moon		 Eric has just won CUP CAKE MO UN TAINNNNNNNNN!!! Can you imagine how that feels? Who wants to see Eric take a bite!? -ATTENDANCE: A clicker counts up to 620. -THE KREMLIN: The team parties like it's 1976. The ball girls are looking pretty good. -MONTAGE CONTINUES WITH TROPIC HIGHLIGHTS. As music cranks, Clarence dribbles and pulls up for a little floater. On defense, Jackie rejects a shot. -WHEELCHAIR DARREN AND JODY: Jody wheels right out onto the floor, an opponent flips over her and tumbles. Jody spills out of her wheelchair, totally psyched.
opposing player		My God, are you okay little girl?
wheelchair jody		Eat my crippled ass. -RESULTS: Three successive winning scores are flashed in a row. A newspaper shows the Tropics moving up further in the standings. -CLARENCE'S MOM: Quincy is throwing. a party for the team at their BBQ place. She dances happy. -NEW PROMO PHOTOS: QUICK CUTS of the team's new glossy calendar: Mr. January: Jackie wears only a tool belt. February: Clarence lies on a lamb wool rug. March: Bee Bee Ellis, by a waterfall, wears a cardigan. April: Monix, annoyed, holds a rose in his teeth. -ATTENDANCE: A clicker counts up to 711. -MONIX THE MASTERMIND: In the meeting room, Monix and the team study film. Monix draws up a defensive scheme on the board. On the court, he gives Clarence an advanced lesson.
monix		Rotate further out from the key, so when you get the ball you can face the basket. You've actually got some moves, so you can penetrate... FLINT RALLIES AROUND THEIR TEAM: The guys in Hawaiin shirts are out flyering.
jackie moon		Good job honey! Looking good. -ATTENDANCE: A clicker counts up to 890. -TROPIC HIGHLIGHTS: Scootsie Double Day Scores. Twiggy Munson Scores. Bee Bee Ellis scores. Jackie Moon hits a ill advised three pointer. Monix rejoices, he's actually having fun.
clarence		Hold up. Are these girls wearing underwear?
jackie moon		Which girls?  Oh. It doesn't look like it. Wow. It's true, the ball girls are flashing the crowd with every kick.
jackie moon		I didn't do it. They did. Melinda winks at Jackie, as her skirt flips up. The crowd is going goes crazy. -ATTENDANCE: The clicker raises to 906. -MORE PRACTICE: Clarence slams a dunk and does a jig.
monix		Clarence, do me a favor, if you dunk the ball, don't dance afterwords. Act like you've been there before.
jackie moon		Actually, Monix, I need him to dance. A lot. The fans need it.
monix		Fine, you can dance a little bit.
jackie moon		If you dunk it, go fuckin' ape shit. -GAME TIME. CLARENCE DUNKS THE BALL: He immediately launches into a preposterous celebration: Back flip, 360 spin down to the splits, back up, he and Jackie give each other ten and then do an extended hand jive routine. Now Jackie blows Clarence a kiss, which 'knocks him out flat.' Clarence then poses, elbow on the floor, hand under his head, smiling.
bobby dee		You sure boss?
jackie moon		Just keep taping it up. I'm fine. Now the COMMISH  steps over.
commish		Hey Jackie.
jackie moon		Oh, hey Commish. 
commish		Listen, my office has been getting your numbers. You claim you've had over two thousand people at every home game this month.
jackie moon		 That's correct. The commissioner looks around, skeptical. As we scan the stands, it's clear the crowd is still not big enough.
commish		Well, we've counted only nine hundred and eighty three here tonight.
jackie moon		What, you don't think people go to the bathroom?  Saturdays can be a little slow. You should have been here the other night, it was SO PACKED.
commish		Don't bullshit me, Jackie. The commish waves over a little bald man in a suit. PEEKSKILL carries a brief case and never talks.
commish		From now on, Peekskill here will be attending every Tropics home game. You're going to have to get a real crowd here if you want to qualify for the merger.
interviewer		So, the Tropics will be at a size disadvantage against the Americans. How do you intend to match up with their strong inside game?
jackie moon		Tomorrow, at half time, I, Jackie Moon, will wrestle a bear.
interviewer		Oh, well there's something. But, defensively, as a team, do you
jackie moon		--That's tomorrow! One night only! See Dewie the wrestling bear attack me. He's killed people in public before.
interviewer		Okay, well, that's some half time show.
interviewer		Well, there you have it. Jackie Moon, thanks for stopping by. From channel 5, this is Mick Kenterman, signing off. Good night.
lynn		Well, if it isn't the toast of Flint Michigan. Shouldn't you be out signing autographs? Monix doesn't speak... He stares into her eyes for a moment.
monix		Will you marry me?
lynn		What?
monix		You heard me.
lynn		Technically, we're still married right now, Monix.
monix		You know what I mean.
lynn		Do I?
monix		Do you love me?
lynn		Probably.
monix		Then let's do it. For real this time. I need you.
lynn		Shit. I know you need me, Monix. The question is, do I need you?
lynn		He's loyal.
monix		Dogs are loyal.
lynn		He ain't stupid, if that's what you're trying to say.
lynn		Don't fuck with him. It's just rude.
lynn		 What do you think you're doing?
kyle		 What's up. I forgot my stupid walle- -Kyle stops in his tracks. He HEARS a sound he's never truly heard before, Lynn having an orgasm. He slowly walks toward the bedroom. KYLE'S POV: Peeking around the corner, we spy Monix and Lynn still going at it. ON KYLE: His whole body goes numb, his face turns red... We hold on his face until:
kyle		Monix?
lynn		 Stop that.
kyle		Stop what?
lynn		 Ixne-on-the-erking off-je. Monix finally notices his sex partner is having a conversation. He turns to see Kyle.
monix		Woah. What the fuck?
kyle		Monix, you of dog!
monix		What the Hell are you doing!?
kyle		Hey, I'm the victim here. I'm allowed to do as I please. This was an honor.
lynn		What? Monix stands up, wrapping a sheet around him.
monix		I'm outta here.
kyle		Oh, c'mon man. Don't be like that. It's all cool.
monix		Believe me, this is not all cool.' Monix grabs his shit and walks out of the bedroom.
monix		I'll call you.
kyle		Okay.
lynn		Not you, asshole. He was talking to me.
officer miller		Hey is that Coffee Black? I'm officer Miller, State Correctional, I'm a big fan, you can call me Jimmy.
clarence		Nice to meet you.
officer miller		Jackie Moon ordered up a bus full of prisoners. Any idea where we all should sit?
jackie moon		I'm scared of bears, Clarence.
jackie moon		I hate these things. I'm freaking out right now.
jackie moon		Look at this place. We're packed. It was a good idea.
jackie moon		You don't understand. I don't like bears. I'm feeling dizzy. Jackie is seriously petrified. Clarence adjusts the collar of his ref jersey and looks around, worried about his friend.
jackie moon		NO. Look into my eyes.  You're the ref tonight. No matter what happens in there, do not stop the fight, okay?
jackie moon		Yeah, let's do it.
bear handler		You guys want to give me a safe word?
bear handler		It's a word for you to yell to the Ref, so he can stop the match.
jackie moon		I don't need a safe word.
bear handler		Tell you what, if you get injured or you really feel like you're in danger, yell, um, I don't know... Spumoni. Once I get a signal from the ref, I'll come in.
jackie moon		It's an Italian Gelato, sort of like Almond flavored ice cream.
jackie moon		I don't know, I've never had it.
bear handler		It's really good.  Okay, so Spumoni is the safe word then?
jackie moon		No, I don't need a safe word, okay? Let's just do this. One round.  DING DING DING! The bell has rung. The crowd goes crazy. Clarence assumes his position as ref. Jackie walks slowly toward the bear, frightened. They bear scratches his belly, cute. Jackie immediately quits.
jackie moon		 Okay, fuck this.
jackie moon		SPUMONI. I'm out of here.
jackie moon		Well, too bad, I'm SPUMONI-ING. PEOPLE START TO BOO. Jackie looks around at the angry crowd.
jackie moon		 What's going on? Is he going to--
bear handler		Woah-ho. I've never seen that before.
jackie moon		(screaming at the bear
bear handler		 Screw this, I'm stopping it. The bear handler tries to get into the ring with a stick and loop. But CLARENCE TRIES TO PUSH THE BEAR HANDLER back out of the ring.
commish		Jackie.
jackie moon		Oh, hey Commish. Good game huh? And a packed house too.
commish		I need to talk to you... And the rest of your team. Alone.
commish		I'm sorry, but even if you beat the Spurs on Friday, we just can't have an NBA franchise in Flint.
monix		What are you saying?
commish		It's just not good business. Flint isn't a big enough media market, okay? This stadium is small and, frankly, it needs to be torn down before someone gets hurt. I'm sorry but nobody ever thought you guys could ever get this far.
clarence		Well tough shit. This team did make it this far. Rules are rules.
commish		Rules are rules... Until the expansion committee makes new rules. Then those rules are the rules. Everyone looks at each other. Jackie's brain has slipped into a deep trance. He is no longer inside his body.
commish		Don't take this personally, Jackie. These other teams have strong markets, new stadiums. It's just not going to happen for you Flint boys. I'm sorry. The devastation of what is happening is palpable. Nothing has ever hurt this bad before.
commish		I know you're going to punch me, Jackie. So let's just get it over with. The commissioner stands brave, eyes closed, chin out. Jackie is too confused and devastated to hit anything. He stumbles out of the room like a zombie. The team follows. The commissioner opens his eyes. A long silent beat...
commish		 How did I get out of that one? Suddenly KONG darts in and squeezes the commissioner's balls with a kung fu grip.
commish		Ah!
twiggy munson		This can't be happening.
jackie moon		I don't know.  Do it to my Jejunum, Monix. Help me. But Monix is leaving. He turns and walks off, alone down the dark street... The others walk away too...
jackie moon		Wait! Monix! Where is everyone going?...
clarence		Thought I might find you here.  I got traded.
monix		Yeah, I heard.
clarence		I guess the San Antonio Spurs are picking up the players they want, before we're eligible for the expansion draft.
monix		Coffee Black, going to the NBA...
clarence		They won't let me finish out with the Tropics. So, we'll be playing against each other in the last game. That's pretty weird.
monix		It won't be weird. The game doesn't count.
clarence		Listen I'm sorry about--
monix		Don't be sorry.
clarence		I mean, I just want to say that, this year, you really--
monix		--DON'T. Alright? Just don't. Clarence stares at him. Then eventually stands up to leave. There are a million things he wants to say, but he says this:
clarence		We worked so hard.
monix		Well, it was all for nothing.
clarence		So, that's just it then?
monix		That's just it. Clarence shakes his head and walks out.
lynn		What the fuck are you doing?
monix		Oh. Hey Lynn.
lynn		I thought the deal was, you were going to sleep.
monix		Pshh. Relax.
lynn		So, you're just going to sit here in my house and drink for the entire day?
monix		You got a problem with that?
lynn		Yeah, I do. Maybe you could put some pants on and go piss off somebody else.
monix		Fine, maybe I will!
lynn		Tell me something, Monix-
monix		No.
lynn		Whatwereyou trying to accomplish thisyear?You never really gave a shitaboutthat NBA merger, did you? Monix doesn't say anything.
lynn		The merger, Monix, did you ever care about it? Monix still stays quiet.
lynn		Tell me, if you didn't care about the merger, what the Hell were you playing for!?
monix		I wanted fourth place! Okay? That was the whole fucking thing!
lynn		Well, guess what! Fourth place is still sitting there, waiting for you to win it! Monix doesn't look at her.
lynn		Think about it.
jackie moon		 I'm a big faker and I stole this; Song-ly sexy. I'm the biggest failure in the; world-ly sexy. I'm going to kill my; self-y sexy.
jackie moon		I'm going to hang myself with an extension; cord-y sexy.
jackie moon		 I am urinating in my pants right now.
monix		Listen up. We all know that Clarence has been traded. And we all know that this game doesn't matter anymore, right?
monix		Well I've got news for you. This game does matter. It matters because this is the last real basketball game any of us is ever going to play. Ever. The guys nod, solemn.
monix		Tomorrow night, I say we leave it all out there on the floor. Because there's nothing else for us to save it for. Clarence or no Clarence. NBA or no NBA. Merger or no merger. We decided we are going to win fourth place. And that's what we're going to do. Jackie is moved. The guys look at each other and nod.
monix		Over the past five weeks, we've become a team. And that is no small thing. Jackie, have you ever been on a real team before?
jackie moon		No sir.
monix		How does it feel?
jackie moon		It feels pretty good.
monix		All your lives, you've dreamed of playing in the NBA. Well, guess what? Tomorrow night, you are. You're playing an NBA team. And for one night, the world is going to know that you belong.
monix		But the truth is, I want this more than anything I've ever wanted in my whole fucked-up life.
jackie moon		The Spurs may be the #1 team in the league, but they're going to have to prove it on Friday night.
tv announcer		Since this game doesn't count, Jackie. What exactly is your motivation?
jackie moon		 We.'re going to win this game, because we want it. It's as simple as that. That alone should make people want to show up and root for us. Jackie and the announcer look at each other for a long moment of silence...
jackie moon		Plus, this is the FLINT MICHIGAN
tv announcer		What?
jackie moon		Save your ticket stubs, the mega- bowl is an historic event.
tv announcer		I'm not sure I understand.
jackie moon		It's a Mega-Bowl. What's not to understand?
tv announcer		This game has no effect on--
jackie moon		--The Mega Bowl trophy is twelve feet high. AND IT IS GLORIOUS.
tv announcer		I'm sorry, but this sounds like something you just made up.
jackie moon		Well, I didn't.
tv announcer		Well, it doesn't make any sense. They're just words.
jackie moon		Oh please. You're just words. 
petrelli		We may be teammates, but I still think you're a dick.
clarence		Thanks Petrelli.
monix		You want to know what I love? This. The eleven of us right here, right now, waiting for the biggest game of our lives to begin.
spurs coach		Coffee Black, you're going in.
clarence		I can't. I've got back spasms. The coach stares him down, then picks another player.
lynn		Oh my God. Everyone in the stadium watches as Jackie lays out cold.
spurs coach		Do not leave this bench, Coffee. BEE BEE leans over Jackie, worried.
monix		What are you trying to prove Petrelli? You afraid to play basketball?
petrelli		Hey, check the scoreboard. Monix attacks Petrelli.
spurs coach		Where the Hell are you going?
clarence		I'm going to my team.
spurs coach		This is your team. You are not leaving this bench. From the front row, the COMMISSIONER hears all of this and stands up, surrounded by security guards.
commish		You sit down! You're not playing with those idiots ever again. If you walk away from this bench now, you're never coming back. I'll see to it you never play in the NBA! Ever! Do you understand what I'm saying to you, Coffee?
clarence		My name ain't Coffee. It's Clarence. With that, Clarence walks across the floor. The crowd erupts.
twiggy munson		Clarence!
clarence		Is he okay?
monix		What the Hell are you doing here?
clarence		I'm with you guys.
monix		Are you out of your mind? You want to lose your NBA contract? Get out of here.
clarence		No.
monix		You're going to give up the NBA for this?  Jackie. Are you okay buddy? Monix cracks a smelling salt and waves it over Jackie's face.
jackie moon		 Yes Mother. You are so kind.
jackie moon		I don't want to leave this place. It's so fluffy. I miss you, Mom.
jackie moon		Oh. I am? That's bad isn't it?
jackie moon		Hey Mom, I threw up.
monix		And I don't care how quick their defense is, we need to move the ball and--
jackie moon		--Hold on you guys. I have something to tell you.
monix		What is it? Jackie seems very serious...
jackie moon		I had a dream. I had a dream, I was in heaven and my Mother spoke to me... She was wearing a flowing white gown... And she showed me a whole new way to score a basket. She spoke to me and said with this gift, you will win fourth place.'
twiggy munson		We need to figure out what we're going to do in the second half.
monix		Alright Jackie, relax, okay?
clarence		Okay Jackie, so what's the play?
jackie moon		No. My Mom said it was fine. The whole arena is waiting for Father Pat the Ref to process this information.
monix		It's not a foul unless you touch another player. And it can't be traveling without first establishing a pivot foot. It's two points, Father Pat, two points. Father Pat the Ref thinks about this...
monix		 Okay, listen up: They've made adjustments out there. We can't just keep running the Alley Oop, okay? They're keying on Clarence. Everyone looks at each other, worried.
monix		We're going to run The Puke.
monix		Don't tell me you've forgotten it. Everyone smiles at each other. They haven't.
monix		We're going to pick away from the ball. We're going to move to the open space. I won't in bound the ball until someone has a good look. . The Puke.
clarence		Amen.
jackie moon		Bring it in! One two three--
jackie moon		 I am awesome at free throws.
monix		What the Hell are you doing?
jackie moon		What, you've never seen me shoot free throws before?
clarence		He shoots them Granny style.
monix		 Shit. Jackie's ritual is insane. He breathes, spins the ball, turns around 360, deep knee bends, touches his left shoulder four times, then SUDDENLY WINGS THE BALL HIGH IN THE AIR.
lucy moon		Jackie!
jackie moon		Lucy?
lucy moon		Kiss me, you hero.
jackie moon		My Mom says you're a bad lady. She says your vagina is for sad people.
clarence		Wait, there really is a trophy?
jackie moon		Hey, it's the Mega Bowl.
clarence		We did it.
draft announcer		.Shit, bitch, you be fine... Clarence stands up, happy, and walks on stage. He holds up a uniform with words: SHITBITCH U.B. PHYNE on it. REVEAL: In the crowd, Monix claps, cheering Clarence on... He is with wife, LYNN. But now Monix stands up and walks on stage too. He puts a NEW YORK NETS hat on.
draft announcer		Here to welcome him is rookie Nets coach, Ed Monix. Monix and Clarence shake hands for the cameras.
clarence		Thanks for bringing me on board, coach.
monix		All the good players were gone.
clarence		Do we really have to live in New Jersey?
monix		Just smile for the cameras, Shitbitch.
recording engineer		Sounded pretty nice.
jackie moon		Yeah, that was a great take. Play that back for me, would you?
recording engineer		Listen, can you take that ring off for a little while? I'm getting some feedback from your microphone.
jackie moon		Sorry Robert, the ring stays on.
****Dialogues from script :Sense_and_Sensibility.txt****

mr dashwood		 Is John not yet arrived?
mrs dashwood		We expect him at any moment, dearest.
mr dashwood		The girls--I have left so little.
mrs dashwood		Shh, hush, Henry.
mr dashwood		Elinor will try to look after you all, but make sure she finds a good husband. The men are such noodles hereabouts, little wonder none has pleased her.
mrs dashwood		But Marianne is sure to find her storybook hero.
mr dashwood		A romantic poet with flashing eyes and empty pockets?
mrs dashwood		As long as she loves him, whoever he is.
mr dashwood		Margaret will go to sea and become a pirate so we need not concern ourselves with her.
thomas		Your son is arrived from London, sir.
mr dashwood		Let me speak to John alone.
mr dashwood		Ah, my dear. How happy you have made me.
john		Father...
mr dashwood		John you will find out soon enough from my will that the estate of Norland was left to me in such a way as prevents me from dividing it between my families.
john		Calm yourself, Father. This is not good for you.
mr dashwood		Norland in its entirety is therefore yours by law and I am happy for you and Fanny.
mr dashwood		But your stepmother my wife and daughters are left with only five hundred pounds a year, barely enough to live on and nothing for the girls' dowries. You must help them.
john		Of course
mr dashwood		You must promise to do this.
john		I promise, Father, I promise.
john		Come! Come quickly!
mr dashwood		Help them.
fanny		What do you mean, 'help them'?
john		Dearest, I mean to give them three thousand pounds.
john		The interest will provide them with a little extra income. Such a gift will certainly discharge my promise to my father.
fanny		Oh, without question! More than amply...
john		One had rather, on such occasions, do too much than too little.
john		Of course, he did not stipulate a particular sum.
mrs dashwood		To be reduced to the condition of visitor in my own home! It is not to be borne, Elinor!
elinor		Consider, Mamma! We have nowhere to go.
mrs dashwood		John and Fanny will descend from London at any moment, followed no doubt by cartloads of relatives ready to turn us out of our rooms one by one do you expect me to be here to welcome them? Vultures!
elinor		I shall start making inquiries for a new house at once. Until then we must try to bear their coming.
john		Fifteen hundred then. What say you to fifteen hundred?
fanny		What brother on earth would do half so much for his real sisters--let alone half-blood?
john		They can hardly expect more.
fanny		There is no knowing what they expect. The question is, what can you afford?
elinor		Marianne, cannot you play something else? Mamma has been weeping since breakfast.
elinor		I meant something less mournful, dearest.
john		A hundred pounds a year to their mother while she lives. Would that be more advisable? It is better than parting with the fifteen hundred all at once.
fanny		But if she should live longer than fifteen years we would be completely taken in. People always live forever when there is an annuity to be paid them.
elinor		Margaret, are you there? Please come down. John and Fanny will be here soon.
elinor		Because houses go from father to son, dearest not from father to daughter. It is the law.
elinor		If you come inside, we could play with your atlas.
john		Twenty pounds now and then will amply discharge my promise, you are quite right.
fanny		Indeed. Although to say the truth, I am convinced within myself that your father had no idea of your giving them money.
john		They will have five hundred a year amongst them as it is--
fanny		--and what on earth can four women want for more than that? Their housekeeping will be nothing at all they will have no carriage, no horses, hardly any servants and will keep no company. Only conceive how comfortable they will be!
elinor		As you know, we are looking for a new home. When we leave we shall be able to retain only Thomas and Betsy.
elinor		We are very sorry to have to leave you all. But we are certain you will find the new Mrs Dashwood a fair and generous mistress.
john		So we are agreed. No money but the occasional gift of game and fish in season will be very welcome.
fanny		Your father would be proud of you.
elinor		How is Mrs Ferrars?
fanny		My mother is always in excellent health, thank you. My brother Robert is in town with her this season and quite the most popular bachelor in London! He has his own barouche.
elinor		You have two brothers, have you not?
fanny		Indeed, yes. Edward is the eldest Mamma quite depends upon him. He is traveling up from Plymouth shortly and will break his journey here.
john		 If that is agreeable to you, of course.
mrs dashwood		My dear John this is your home now.
marianne		Fanny wishes to know where the key for the silver cabinet is kept.
elinor		Betsy has it, I think. What does Fanny want with the silver?
marianne		I can only presume she wants to count it. What are you doing?
elinor		Presents for the servants. Have you seen Margaret? I am worried about her. She has taken to hiding in the oddest places.
marianne		Fortunate girl. At least she can escape Fanny, which is more than any of us is able.
elinor		You do your best. You have not said a word to her for a week.
marianne		 I have! I have said 'yes' and 'no'.
marianne		 Good morning, Fanny.
fanny		Good morning, Marianne.
marianne		 How did you find the silver? Is it all genuine?
elinor		Pray, when may we expect the pleasure of your brother's company?
fanny		Edward is due tomorrow. And my dear Mrs Dashwood, in view of the fact that he will not be with us for long, I wondered if Miss Margaret would mind giving up her room to him the view is quite incomparable from her windows and I should so much like Edward to see Norland at its best.
marianne		Intolerable woman!
elinor		There is but one consolation if Edward is anything like Fanny, we shall be only too happy to leave.
fanny		But where is Miss Margaret? I declare, Mrs Dashwood, I am beginning to doubt of her existence! She must run positively wild!
mrs dashwood		Forgive us, Mr Ferrars. My youngest is not to be found this morning. She is a little shy of strangers at present.
edward		Naturally. I am also shy of strangers and I have nothing like her excuse.
marianne		 How do you like your view, Mr Ferrars?
edward		Very much. Your stables are very handsome and beautifully kept, Mrs Dashwood.
fanny		Stables! Edward--your windows overlook the lake.
edward		An oversight, Fanny, led me to the wrong room. I have rectified the situation and am happily settled in the guest quarters.
fanny		They are all exceedingly spoilt, I find. Miss Margaret spends all her time up trees and under furniture and I have barely had a civil word from Marianne.
edward		My dear Fanny, they have just lost their father their lives will never be the same again.
fanny		That is no excuse.
fanny		I have never liked the smell of books.
edward		Oh? No. The dust, perhaps.
edward		I hear you have great plans for the walnut grove.
fanny		Oh yes! I shall have it pulled down to make room for a Grecian temple.
edward		How picturesque. Will you show me the site?
elinor		Too expensive. We do not need four bedrooms, we can share.
marianne		This one, then?
elinor		Marianne, we have only five hundred pounds a year. I will send out more inquiries today.
edward		Pardon my intrusion, but I believe I have found what you are looking for.
edward		Oh, Miss Dashwood! Excuse me I was wondering do you by any chance have such a thing as a reliable atlas?
elinor		I believe so.
edward		Excellent. I wish to check the position of the Nile.
edward		My sister says it is in South America.
elinor		Oh! No, no indeed. She is quite wrong. For I believe it is in--in Belgium.
edward		Belgium? Surely not. You must be thinking of the Volga.
margaret		 The Volga?
elinor		Of course. The Volga, which, as you know, starts in...
edward		Vladivostok, and ends in...
elinor		St Albans.
edward		Indeed. Where the coffee beans come from.
margaret		The source of the Nile is in Abyssinia.
edward		Is it? Good heavens. How do you do. Edward Ferrars.
margaret		Margaret Dashwood.
elinor		 That was my father's favourite.
elinor		Thank you so much for your help with Margaret, Mr Ferrars. She is a changed girl since your arrival.
edward		Not at all. I enjoy her company.
elinor		Has she shown you her tree-house?
edward		Not yet. Would you do me the honour, Miss Dashwood? It is very fine out.
elinor		With pleasure.
elinor		Margaret has always wanted to travel.
edward		I know. She is heading an expedition to China shortly. I am to go as her servant but only on the understanding that I will be very badly treated.
elinor		What will your duties be?
edward		Sword-fighting, administering rum and swabbing.
elinor		Ah.
edward		All I want--all I have ever wanted is the quiet of a private life but my mother is determined to see me distinguished.
elinor		As?
edward		She hardly knows. Any fine figure will suit a great orator, a leading politician, even a barrister would serve, but only on the condition that I drive my own barouche and dine in the first circles.
elinor		And what do you wish for?
edward		I always preferred the church, but that is not smart enough for my mother she prefers the army, but that is a great deal too smart for me.
elinor		Would you stay in London?
edward		I hate London. No peace. A country living is my ideal a small parish where I might do some good, keep chickens and give very short sermons.
elinor		You talk of feeling idle and useless imagine how that is compounded when one has no choice and no hope whatsoever of any occupation.
edward		Our circumstances are therefore precisely the same.
elinor		Except that you will inherit your fortune.
elinor		We cannot even earn ours.
edward		Perhaps Margaret is right.
elinor		Right?
edward		Piracy is our only option.
edward		What is swabbing exactly?
edward		No voice divine the storm allayed No light propitious shone, When snatched from all effectual aid, We perished each alone: But I beneath a rougher sea, And whelmed in deeper gulfs than he.
marianne		No, Edward! Listen.
marianne		Can you not feel his despair? Try again.
marianne		Mamma, look. This has just arrived.
mrs dashwood		 'I should be pleased to offer you a home at Barton Cottage as soon as ever you have need of it' why, it is from my cousin, Sir John Middleton!
marianne		Even Elinor must approve the rent.
mrs dashwood		Has Elinor not yet seen this?
marianne		No I will fetch her.
mrs dashwood		Wait. No. Let us delay.
marianne		Why?
mrs dashwood		I think--I believe that Edward and Elinor have formed an attachment.
mrs dashwood		It would be cruel to take her away so soon and Devonshire is so far.
mrs dashwood		Why so grave? Do you disapprove her choice?
marianne		By no means. Edward is very amiable.
mrs dashwood		Amiable but?
marianne		But there is something wanting. He is too sedate his reading last night.
mrs dashwood		Elinor has not your feelings, his reserve suits her.
marianne		Can he love her? Can the ardour of the soul really be satisfied with such polite, concealed affections? To love is to burn to be on fire, all made of passion, of adoration, of sacrifice! Like Juliet, or Guinevere or Heloise.
mrs dashwood		They made rather pathetic ends, dear.
marianne		Pathetic! To die for love? How can you say so? What could be more glorious?
mrs dashwood		I think that may be taking your romantic sensibilities a little far.
marianne		The more I know of the world, the more I am convinced that I shall never see a man whom I can truly love.
mrs dashwood		You require so much!
marianne		I do not! I require only what any young woman of taste should a man who sings well, dances admirably, rides bravely, reads with passion and whose tastes agree in every point with my own.
marianne		Is love a fancy, or a feeling? No It is immortal as immaculate truth 'Tis not a blossom shed as soon as Youth Drops from the stem of life for it will grow In barren regions, where no waters flow Nor ray of promise cheats the pensive gloom--
marianne		What a pity it is that Edward has no passion for reading.
elinor		It was you who asked him to read and then you made him nervous.
marianne		Me?
elinor		But your behaviour to him in all other respects is perfectly cordial so I must assume that you like him in spite of his deficiencies.
marianne		 I think him everything that is amiable and worthy.
elinor		Praise indeed!
marianne		But he shall have my unanswering devotion when you tell me he is to be my brother.
marianne		How shall I do without you?
elinor		Do without me?
marianne		I am sure you will be very happy. But you must promise not to live too far away.
elinor		Marianne, there is no question of that is, there is no under standing between...
marianne		Do you love him?
elinor		I do not attempt to deny that I think very highly of him that I greatly esteem that I like him.
marianne		Esteem him! Like him! Use those insipid words again and I shall leave the room this instant!
elinor		Very well. Forgive me. Believe my feelings to be stronger than I have declared but further than that you must not believe.
marianne		'Is love a fancy or a feeling?' Or a Ferrars?
elinor		Go to bed!
marianne		 'I do not attempt to deny that I think highly of him greatly esteem him! Like him!'
mrs dashwood		We are all so happy that you chose to invite Edward to Norland. He is a dear boy and we are all very fond of him.
fanny		We have great hopes for him. Much is expected of him by our mother with regard to his profession
mrs dashwood		Naturally.
fanny		And in marriage. She is determined that both he and Robert will marry well.
mrs dashwood		Of course. But I hope she desires them to marry for love, first and foremost? I have always felt that, contrary to common wisdom, true affection is by far the most valuable dowry.
fanny		Love is all very well, but unfortunately we cannot always rely on the heart to lead us in the most suitable directions.
fanny		You see, my dear Mrs Dashwood, Edward is entirely the kind of compassionate person upon whom penniless women can prey--and having entered into any kind of understanding, he would never go back on his word. He is quite simply incapable of doing so. But it would lead to his ruin. I worry for him so, Mrs Dashwood. My mother has always made it perfectly plain that she will withdraw all financial support from Edward, should he choose to plant his affections in less... exalted ground than he deserves.
mrs dashwood		I understand you perfectly.
edward		Devonshire!
mrs dashwood		My cousin Sir John Middleton has offered us a small house on his estate.
john		Sir John Middleton? What is his situation? He must be a man of property.
mrs dashwood		He is a widower. He lives with his mother-in-law at Barton Park and it is Barton Cottage that he offers us.
fanny		Oh, a cottage! How charming. A little cottage is always very snug.
edward		But you will not leave before the summer?
mrs dashwood		Oh, my dear Edward, we can no longer trespass upon your sister's good will. We must leave as soon as possible.
margaret		You will come and stay with us, Edward!
edward		I should like that very much.
fanny		Edward has long been expected in town by our mother.
mrs dashwood		Come as soon as you can, Edward. Remember that you are always welcome.
edward		Cannot you take him with you?
elinor		We cannot possibly afford him.
edward		Perhaps he could make himself useful in the kitchen?
edward		Miss Dashwood--Elinor. I must talk to you.
edward		There is something of great importance I need... to tell you--
edward		--about--about my education.
elinor		 Your education?
edward		Yes. It was less... successful than it might have been.
edward		It was conducted in Plymouth--oddly enough.
elinor		Indeed?
edward		Yes. Do you know it?
elinor		Plymouth?
edward		Yes.
elinor		No.
edward		Oh--well--I spent four years there-- at a school run by a--a Mr Pratt--
elinor		Pratt?
edward		Precisely--Mr Pratt--and there, I-- that is to say, he has a--
fanny		Edward! Edward!
fanny		I have been all over for you! You are needed in London this instant!
edward		Fanny, I am leaving this afternoon as it is--
fanny		No, no, that will not do. Family affairs are in chaos owing to your absence. Mother is quite adamant that you should leave at once.
edward		Excuse me, Miss Dashwood.
margaret		Edward promised he would bring the atlas to Barton for me.
marianne		Did he? Well, I will wager he will do so in less than a fortnight!
mrs dashwood		Sir John!
sir john		Dear ladies, dear ladies, upon my word, here you are, here you are, here you are!
mrs dashwood		Sir John, your extraordinary kindness--
sir john		Oh, none of that, hush, please, none of that, but here is my dear mamma- in-law Mrs Jennings.
mrs jennings		Was the journey tolerable, you poor souls?
sir john		Why did you not come up to the Park first and take your ease? We saw you pass--Like many people who live rather lonely lives together.
mrs jennings		--but I would not wait for you to come to us, I made John call for the carriage--
sir john		She would not wait, you know.
mrs jennings		--as we get so little company.
mrs jennings		--call--and here is Miss Marianne!
sir john		Where did you disappear to?
mrs jennings		I declare you are the loveliest girl I ever set eyes on! Cannot you get them married, Mrs Dashwood? You must not leave it too long!
sir john		But, alas, there are no smart young men hereabouts to woo them--
mrs jennings		--not a beau for miles!
sir john		Come, Mother, let us leave them in peace.
mrs jennings		But there is Colonel Brandon!
sir john		Excellent fellow! We served in the East India Regiment together.
mrs jennings		Just wait till he sees you! If we can persuade him out to meet you!
sir john		Reclusive individual. But you are fatigued. I can see that you are fatigued.
mrs jennings		Of course she is fatigued!
sir john		Come along, Mother, we really must leave them to themselves.
mrs jennings		You must get your maidservant to make you up some camphor--it is the best tonic for the staggers!
sir john		Send Thomas to us for the carriage when you are ready!
margaret		I like them.
mrs dashwood		 What generosity.
elinor		Indeed. I am surprised they did not offer us their clothing.
betsy		Sugar is five shilling a pound these parts, Miss Dashwood.
elinor		 No more sugar then.
mrs jennings		Colonel Brandon is the most eligible bachelor in the county--he is bound to do for one of you. Mind, he is a better age for Miss Dashwood--but I dare say she left her heart behind in Sussex, eh?
mrs jennings		Aha! I see you, Miss Marianne! I think I have unearthed a secret!
sir john		Oho! Have you sniffed one out already, Mother? You are worse than my best pointer, Flossie!
mrs jennings		What sort of man is he, Miss Dashwood? Is he butcher, baker, candlestick- maker? I shall winkle it out of you somehow, you know!
sir john		She's horribly good at winkling.
mrs jennings		You are in lonely country now, Miss Dashwood, none of us has any secrets here--
sir john		--or if we do, we do not keep them for long!
mrs jennings		He is curate of the parish, I dare say!
sir john		Or a handsome lieutenant!
mrs jennings		Give us a clue, Miss Dashwood--is he in uniform?
margaret		He has no profession!
sir john		No profession! A gentleman, then!
marianne		 Margaret, you know perfectly well there is no such person.
margaret		There is! There is! And his name begins with an F!
mrs dashwood		Margaret!
sir john		F indeed! A very promising letter. Let me--F, F, Fo, Fa... Upon my word, but I cannot think of a single name beginning with F--
mrs jennings		Forrest? Foster? Frost? Foggarty?
marianne		 Sir John, might I play your pianoforte?
sir john		Of course, yes--my goodness. We do not stand on ceremony here, my dear.
sir john		Brandon! Where have you been? Come, come and meet our beautiful new neighbours!
mrs jennings		What a pity you are late, Colonel! You have missed the most delightful singing!
colonel brandon		A great pity, indeed.
sir john		Mrs Dashwood, may I present my dear friend Colonel Brandon? We served together in the East Indies and I assure you there is no better fellow on earth--
margaret		Have you really been to the East Indies, Colonel?
colonel brandon		I have.
margaret		What is it like?
sir john		Like? Hot.
colonel brandon		 The air is full of spices.
sir john		Come, Miss Dashwood--it is your turn to entertain us!
elinor		Oh no, Sir John, I do not--
sir john		--and I think we can all guess what key you will sing in!
marianne		 As for you, you have no right, no right at all, to parade your ignorant assumptions--
margaret		They are not assumptions. You told me.
marianne		I told you nothing--
margaret		They'll meet him when he comes, anyway.
marianne		That is not the point. You do not speak of such things before strangers--
margaret		But everyone else was--
marianne		Mrs Jennings is not everyone.
margaret		I like her! She talks about things. We never talk about things.
mrs dashwood		Hush, please, now that is enough, Margaret. If you cannot think of anything appropriate to say, you will please restrict your remarks to the weather.
margaret		I like Colonel Brandon too. He's been to places.
sir john		You know what they're saying, of course...
sir john		The word is that you have developed a taste for--certain company.
sir john		And why not, say I. A man like you-- in his prime--she'd be a most fortunate young lady--
colonel brandon		Marianne Dashwood would no more think of me than she would of you, John.
sir john		Brandon, my boy, do not think of yourself so meanly--
colonel brandon		And all the better for her.
mrs jennings		 Besotted! Excellent match, for he is rich and she is handsome.
elinor		How long have you known the Colonel?
mrs jennings		Oh, Lord bless you, as long as ever I have been here, and I came fifteen years back. His estate at Delaford is but four miles hence and he and John are very thick. He has no wife or children of his own, for--
mrs jennings		--he has a tragic history. He loved a girl once--twenty years ago now--a ward to his family, but they were not permitted to marry...
elinor		On what grounds?
mrs jennings		Money. Eliza was poor. When the father discovered their amour, she was flung out of the house and he packed off into the army. I believe he would have done himself a harm if not for John...
elinor		What became of the lady?
mrs jennings		Oh, she was passed from man to man-- disappeared from all good society. When Brandon got back from India he searched for heaven knows how long, only to find her dying in a poor house. You have seen how it has affected him. Once I thought my daughter Charlotte might have cheered him up, but she is much better off where she is.
mrs jennings		Look at him now, though. So attentive. I shall try an experiment on him.
elinor		Oh no, please, dear Mrs Jennings, leave the poor Colonel alone.
mrs jennings		No, no, it is just the thing--all suitors need a little help, my dear
mrs jennings		 Colonel Brandon!
mrs jennings		We have not heard you play for us of late!
colonel brandon		For the simple reason that you have a far superior musician here.
mrs jennings		Perhaps you did not know, Miss Marianne, that our dear Brandon shares your passion for music and plays the piano forte very well.
mrs jennings		Play us a duet!
mrs jennings		I'll trow you know quite as many melancholy tunes as Miss Marianne!
mrs jennings		Come! Let us see you both side by side!
marianne		I do not know any duets. Forgive me, Colonel.
marianne		Oh! Are we never to have a moment's peace? The rent here may be low but I think we have it on very hard terms.
elinor		Mrs Jennings is a wealthy woman with a married daughter--she has nothing to do but marry off everyone else's.
betsy		There's a parcel arrived for you, Miss Dashwood!
margaret		A parcel!
marianne		It is too ridiculous! When is a man to be safe from such wit if age and infirmity do not protect him?
elinor		Infirmity!
mrs dashwood		If Colonel Brandon is infirm, then I am at death's door.
elinor		It is a miracle your life has extended this far...
marianne		Did you not hear him complain of a rheumatism in his shoulder?
elinor		A slight ache' I believe was his phrase...
margaret		But Edward said he would bring it himself.
mrs dashwood		'Dear Mrs Dashwood, Miss Dashwood, Miss Marianne and Captain Margaret-- it gives me great pleasure to restore this atlas to its rightful owner. Alas, business in London does not permit me to accompany it, although this is likely to hurt me far more than it hurts you. For the present my memories of your kindness must be enough to sustain me, and I remain your devoted servant always. E. C. Ferrars.'
margaret		But why hasn't he come?
mrs dashwood		He says he is busy, dear.
margaret		He said he'd come.
margaret		Why hasn't he come?
marianne		I am taking you for a walk.
margaret		No! I've been a walk.
marianne		You need another.
margaret		It is going to rain.
marianne		It is not going to rain.
margaret		You always say that and then it always does.
mrs dashwood		I fear Mrs Jennings is a bad influence.
mrs dashwood		You must miss him, Elinor.
elinor		We are not engaged, Mamma.
mrs dashwood		But he loves you, dearest, of that I am certain.
elinor		I am by no means assured of his regard for me.
mrs dashwood		Oh, Elinor!
elinor		But even were he to feel such a... preference, I think we should be foolish to assume that there would not be many obstacles to his choosing a woman of no rank who cannot afford to buy sugar...
mrs dashwood		But Elinor--your heart must tell you--
elinor		In such a situation, Mamma, it is perhaps better to use one's head.
marianne		Is there any felicity in the world superior to this?
margaret		I told you it would rain.
marianne		Look! There is some blue sky! Let us chase it!
margaret		I'm not supposed to run.
margaret		Marianne!
marianne		Help me!
marianne		Margaret, run home and fetch help.
margaret		I think it is this way. I will run as fast as I can, Marianne.
the stranger		Are you hurt?
marianne		 Only my ankle.
the stranger		May I have your permission to--
the stranger		--ascertain if there are any breaks?
the stranger		It is not broken. Now, can you put your arm about my neck?
the stranger		Allow me to escort you home.
mrs dashwood		Marianne was sure it would not rain.
elinor		Which invariably means it will.
mrs dashwood		At last!
margaret		She fell over! She fell down--and he's carrying her!
mrs dashwood		Marianne!
elinor		In here, sir--this way. Margaret, open the door wider. Please, sir, lay her here. Marianne, are you in pain?
the stranger		It is a twisted ankle.
marianne		Do not be alarmed, Mamma.
the stranger		I can assure you it is not serious. I took the liberty of feeling the bone and it is perfectly sound.
mrs dashwood		Sir, I cannot even begin to thank you.
the stranger		Please do not think of it. I'm honoured of be of service.
mrs dashwood		Will you not be seated?
the stranger		Pray excuse me--I have no desire to leave a water mark! But permit me to call tomorrow afternoon and inquire after the patient?
mrs dashwood		We shall look forward to it!
marianne		 His name! His name!
mrs dashwood		Please tell us to whom we are so much obliged?
the stranger		John Willoughby of Allenham--your servant, ma'am!
marianne		Mr John Willoughby of Allenham!
mrs dashwood		What an impressive gentleman!
marianne		He lifted me as if I weighed no more than a dried leaf!
elinor		Is he human?
mrs dashwood		Tell me if I hurt you.
elinor		 She feels no pain, Mamma. Margaret, ask Betsy to make up a cold compress, please.
margaret		 Did you see him? He expressed himself well, did he not?
mrs dashwood		With great decorum and honour.
marianne		And spirit and wit and feeling.
elinor		And economy--ten words at most.
marianne		And he is to come tomorrow!
elinor		You must change, Marianne--you will catch a cold.
marianne		What care I for colds when there is such a man?
elinor		You will care very much when your nose swells up.
marianne		You are right. Help me, Elinor.
margaret		What has happened?
elinor		We have decided to give you to the Gypsies.
margaret		Will they be married before Edward and Elinor, do you think, Mamma?
mrs dashwood		Margaret, you are worse than Mrs Jennings.
marianne		But what do you know of Mr Willoughby, Sir John?
sir john		Decent shot--and there is not a bolder rider in all England.
marianne		But what is he like?
sir john		Like?
marianne		What are his tastes? His passions? His pursuits?
sir john		 Well, he has the nicest little bitch of a pointer--was she out with him yesterday?
mrs dashwood		Where is Allenham, Sir John?
sir john		Nice little estate three miles east. He is to inherit it from an elderly relative--Lady Allen is her name.
margaret		It is Colonel Brandon. I shall go outside and keep watch.
sir john		You are all on the lookout for Willoughby, eh? Dear me, poor Brandon. You will none of you think of him now.
colonel brandon		How is the invalid?
marianne		Thank you so much, Colonel.
sir john		Miss Marianne, I cannot see why you should set your cap at Mr Willoughby when you have already made such a splendid conquest!
marianne		I have no intention of 'setting my cap' at anyone, Sir John!
colonel brandon		Mr Willoughby--Lady Allen's nephew?
sir john		Aye, he visits every year for he is to inherit Allenham--and he has a very pretty estate of his own, Miss Dashwood, Combe Magna in Somerset. If I were you, I would not give him up to my younger sister in spite of all this tumbling down hills.
sir john		Here is the man himself. Come, Brandon-- we know when we are not wanted. Let us leave him to the ladies!
elinor		Marianne! Sir John and the Colonel are leaving.
marianne		Goodbye, Colonel. Thank you for the flowers.
willoughby		How do you do, Colonel?
sir john		How does he do? How do you do, more like. Go on in, they're waiting for you!
mrs dashwood		Mr Willoughby! What a pleasure to see you again!
willoughby		The pleasure is all mine, I can asstire you. I trust Miss Marianne has not caught cold?
marianne		You have found out my name!
willoughby		Of course. The neighbourhood is crawling with my spies.
willoughby		And since you cannot venture out to nature, nature must be brought to you!
marianne		How beautiful. These are not from the hothouse.
willoughby		Ah! I see mine is not the first offering, nor the most elegant. I am afraid I obtained these from an obliging field.
marianne		But I have always preferred wild flowers!
willoughby		I suspected as much.
elinor		I will put these in water.
mrs dashwood		Our gratitude, Mr Willoughby, is beyond expression--
willoughby		But it is I who am grateful. I have often passed this cottage and grieved for its lonely state--and then the first news I had from Lady Allen when I arrived was that it was taken. I felt a peculiar interest in the event which nothing can account for but my present delight in meeting you.
mrs dashwood		Pray sit down, Mr Willoughby.
willoughby		Who is reading Shakespeare's sonnets?
mrs dashwood		Marianne has been reading them out to us.
willoughby		Which are your favourites?
willoughby		Let me not to the marriage of true minds Admit impediments. Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds, Or bends with the remover to remove--then how does it go?
marianne		'0, no! it is an ever-fixed mark.'
willoughby		'That looks on storms'--or is it tempests? Let me find it.
willoughby		It is strange you should be reading them--for, look, I carry this with me always.
willoughby		Till tomorrow! And my pocket sonnets are yours, Miss Marianne! A talisman against further injury!
marianne		Goodbye! Thank you!
elinor		Good work, Marianne! You have covered all forms of poetry; another meeting will ascertain his views on nature and romantic attachments and then you will have nothing left to talk about and the acquaintanceship will be over.
marianne		I suppose I have erred against decorum. I should have been dull and spiritless and talked only of the weather, or the state of the roads.
elinor		No, but Mr Willoughby can be in no doubt of your enthusiasm for him.
marianne		Why should he doubt it? Why should I hide my regard?
elinor		No particular reason, Marianne, only that we know so little of him--
marianne		But time alone does not determine intimacy. Seven years would be insufficient to make some people acquainted with each other and seven days are more than enough for others.
elinor		Or seven hours in this case.
marianne		I feel I know Mr Willoughby well already. If I had weaker, more shallow feelings perhaps I could conceal them, as you do--
mrs dashwood		Marianne, that is not fair--
marianne		I am sorry, Elinor, I did not mean
elinor		I know. Do not trouble yourself, Marianne.
marianne		I do not understand her, Mamma. Why does she never mention Edward? I have never even seen her cry about him, or about Norland.
mrs dashwood		Nor I. But Elinor is not like you or I, dear. She does not like to be swayed by her emotions.
mrs dashwood		Surely you are not going to deny us beef as well as sugar?
elinor		There is nothing under tenpence a pound. We have to economise.
mrs dashwood		Do you want us to starve?
elinor		No. Just not to eat beef.
marianne		If there was any true impropriety in my behaviour, I should be sensible of it, Elinor--
elinor		But as it has already exposed you to some very impertinent remarks, do you not begin to doubt your own discretion?
marianne		If the impertinent remarks of such as Mrs Jennings are proof of impropriety, then we are all offending every moment of our lives--
colonel brandon		 Miss Dashwood! Miss Marianne!
elinor		Good morning, Colonel!
colonel brandon		I come to issue an invitation. A picnic on my estate at Delaford--if you would care to join us on Thursday next. Mrs Jennings's daughter and her husband are traveling up especially.
elinor		Thank you, Colonel, we shall be delighted.
colonel brandon		 I will of course be including Mr Willoughby in the party.
marianne		I should be delighted to join you, Colonel!
willoughby		Good morning, Miss Dashwood; good morning, Colonel.
marianne		The Colonel has invited us to Delaford, Willoughby!
willoughby		Excellent. I understand you have a particularly fine pianoforte, Colonel.
colonel brandon		A Broadwood Grand.
marianne		A Broadwood Grand! Then I shall really be able to play for you!
willoughby		We shall look forward to it!
colonel brandon		Your sister seems very happy.
elinor		Yes. Marianne does not approve of hiding her emotions. In fact, her romantic prejudices have the unfortunate tendency to set propriety at naught.
colonel brandon		She is wholly unspoilt.
elinor		Rather too unspoilt, in my view. The sooner she becomes acquainted with the ways of the world, the better.
colonel brandon		I knew a lady like your sister--the same impulsive sweetness of temper-- who was forced into, as you put it, a better acquaintance with the world. The result was only ruination and despair.
colonel brandon		Do not desire it, Miss Dashwood.
mrs jennings		Imagine my surprise, Mrs Dashwood, when Charlotte and her lord and master appeared with our cousin Lucy! The last person I expected to see! 'Where did you pop out from, Miss?' says I. I was never so surprised to see anyone in all my life!
mrs jennings		She probably came on purpose to share the fun, for there are no funds for such luxuries at home, poor thing.
lucy		I had not seen you for so long, dear Mrs Jennings, I could not resist the opportunity.
charlotte		Oh, you sly thing! It was the Misses Dashwood she wanted to see, not Delaford, Mamma! I have heard nothing but 'Miss Dashwood this, Miss Dashwood that' for I don't know how long! And what do you think of them now you do see them, Lucy? My mother has talked of nothing else in her letters since you came to Barton, Mrs Dashwood. Mr Palmer--are they not the very creatures she describes?
mr palmer		Nothing like.
charlotte		 Why, Mr Palmer! Do you know you are quite rude today? He is to be an MP, you know, Mrs Dashwood, and it is very fatiguing for him for he is forced to make everybody like him-- he says it is quite shocking--
mrs palmer		I never said anything so irrational. Don't palm all your abuses of the language upon me.
mrs jennings		 Mr Palmer is so droll--he is always out of humour.
mrs jennings		Here he is! Now you shall see, Charlotte.
mrs jennings		How now, Mr Willoughby! You must greet my daughter Charlotte, and Mr Palmer--
willoughby		How do you do?
mrs jennings		And my little cousin, Miss Lucy Steele.
willoughby		Welcome to our party, Miss Steele!
charlotte		I know Mr Willoughby extremely well-- not that I ever spoke to him but I have seen him forever in town. Your sister is monstrous lucky to get him. Mamma says Colonel Brandon is in love with her as well, which is a very great compliment for he hardly ever falls in love with anyone.
lucy		May I beg a seat beside you, Miss Dashwood? I have so longed to make your better acquaintance! I have heard nothing but the highest praise for you.
elinor		I would be delighted. But Sir John and Mrs Jennings are too excessive in their compliments. I am sure to disappoint.
lucy		No, for it was from quite another source that I heard you praised and one not at all inclined to exaggeration.
sir john		What can this be?
colonel brandon		My horse! Quickly!
sir john		What is the matter, Brandon?
colonel brandon		I must away to London.
sir john		No! Impossible!
colonel brandon		Imperative.
sir john		But Brandon, we are all assembled. We cannot picnic at Delaford without our host! Go up to town tomorrow.
willoughby		Or wait till we return and start then--you would not be six hours later.
colonel brandon		I cannot afford to lose one minute.
lucy		Oh, Miss Dashwood, I cannot bear it! Just when I was to have the opportunity of speaking with you.
willoughby		Frailty, thy name is Brandon!
marianne		There are some people who cannot bear a party of pleasure. I think he wrote the letter himself as a trick for getting out of it.
mrs dashwood		 You are a very wicked pair, Colonel Brandon will be sadly missed.
willoughby		Why? When he is the kind of man that everyone speaks well of and no one wants to talk to.
marianne		Exactly!
elinor		Nonsense.
mrs dashwood		Colonel Brandon is very highly esteemed at the Park.
willoughby		Which is enough censure in itself.
elinor		 Really, Willoughby!
willoughby		 Come, come, Mr Impudence--I know you and your wicked ways--oh!
willoughby		Come, Miss Dashwood, reveal your beau, reveal him, I say! Let's have no secrets between friends! Let me winkle them out of you!
willoughby		 I declare, Miss Marianne, if I do not have you married to the Colonel by teatime, I shall swallow my own bonnet.
willoughby		As if you could marry such a character.
elinor		Why should you dislike him?
willoughby		Because he has threatened me with rain when I wanted it fine, he has found fault with the balance of my curricle and I cannot persuade him to buy my brown mare. If it will be of any satisfaction to you, however, to be told I believe his character to be in all other respects irreproachable, I am ready to confess it. And in return for an acknowledgement that must give me some pain.  as much as I adore...
willoughby		--this cottage!
mrs dashwood		I have great plans for improvements to it, you know, Mr Willoughby.
willoughby		Now that I will never consent to. Not a stone must be added to its walls. Were I rich enough, I would instantly pull down Combe Magna and build it up again in the exact image of that cottage!
elinor		With dark, narrow stairs, a poky hall and a fire that smokes?
willoughby		Especially the fire that smokes! Then I might be as happy at Combe Magna as I have been at Barton.
willoughby		But this place has one claim on my affection which no other can possibly share.
willoughby		Promise me you will never change it.
mrs dashwood		I do not have the heart.
elinor		Or the money.
willoughby		Miss Marianne, will you--will you do me the honour of granting me an interview tomorrow--alone?
marianne		Willoughby, we are always alone!
willoughby		But there is something very particular I should like to ask you.
marianne		Of course. I shall ask Mamma if I may stay behind from church.
willoughby		Thank you. Until tomorrow then--Miss Marianne.
margaret		Do you think he will kneel down when he asks her?
elinor		Shhh!
margaret		 They always kneel down.
mrs dashwood		What is wrong, my dearest?
mrs dashwood		Willoughby! What is the matter?
willoughby		I--forgive me, Mrs Dashwood. I am sent--that is to say, Lady Allen has exercised the privilege of riches upon a dependent cousin and is sending me to London.
mrs dashwood		When--this morning?
willoughby		Almost this moment.
mrs dashwood		How very disappointing! But your business will not detain you from us for long, I hope?
willoughby		You are very kind--but I have no idea of returning immediately to Devonshire. I am seldom invited to Allenham more than once a year.
mrs dashwood		For shame, Willoughby! Can you wait for an invitation from Barton Cottage?
willoughby		My engagements at present are of such a nature--that is--I dare not flatter myself--
willoughby		It is folly to linger in this manner. I will not torment myself further.
margaret		Willoughby, come back!
elinor		Meg, dearest, please ask Betsy to make a cup of hot tea for Marianne.
mrs dashwood		What is wrong, my love?
marianne		Nothing! Please do not ask me questions!
marianne		Please let me be!
elinor		They must have quarreled.
mrs dashwood		That is unlikely. Perhaps this--Lady Allen--disapproves of his regard for Marianne and has invented an excuse to send him away?
elinor		Then why did he not say as much? It is not like Willoughby to be secretive. Did he think Marianne was richer than she is?
mrs dashwood		How could he?
mrs dashwood		What is it you suspect him of?
elinor		I can hardly tell you. But why was his manner so guilty?
mrs dashwood		What are you saying, Elinor? That he has been acting a part to your sister for all this time?
elinor		No, he loves her, I am sure.
mrs dashwood		Of course he loves her!
elinor		But has he left her with any assurance of his return? Cannot you ask her if he has proposed?
mrs dashwood		Certainly not. I cannot force a confidence from Marianne and nor must you. We must trust her to confide in us in her own time.
elinor		 There was something so underhand in the manner of his leaving.
mrs dashwood		You are resolved, then, to think the worst of him.
elinor		Not resolved--
mrs dashwood		 I prefer to give him the benefit of my good opinion. He deserves no less. From all of us.
elinor		Mamma, I am very fond of Willoughby--
margaret		She would not let me in.
marianne		How like a winter hath my absence been from thee, the pleasure of the fleeting year! What freezings have I felt, what dark days seen! What old December's bareness everywhere!
charlotte		Oh! If only this rain would stop!
mr palmer		 If only you would stop.
mrs jennings		'Twas you took her off my hands, Mr Palmer, and a very good bargain you made of it too, but now I have the whip hand over you for you cannot give her back!
mrs jennings		Miss Marianne, come and play a round with us! Looking out at the weather will not bring him back.
charlotte		 She ate nothing at dinner.
mrs jennings		Mind, we are all a little forlorn these days. London has swallowed all our company.
lucy		 Dear Miss Dashwood, perhaps now we might have our--discussion.
elinor		Our discussion?
lucy		There is a particular question I have long wanted to ask you, but perhaps you will think me impertinent?
elinor		I cannot imagine so.
lucy		But it is an odd question. Forgive me, I have no wish to trouble you--
elinor		My dear Miss Steele--
charlotte		 Miss Dashwood, if only Mr Willoughby had gone home to Combe Magna, we could have taken Miss Marianne to see him! For we live but half a mile away.
mr palmer		Five and a half.
charlotte		No, I cannot believe it is that far, for you can see the place from the top of our hill. Is it really five and a half miles? No! I cannot believe it.
mr palmer		Try.
elinor		You have my permission to ask any manner of question, if that is of any help.
lucy		Thank you. I wonder, are you at all acquainted with your sister-in-law's mother? Mrs Ferrars?
elinor		With Fanny's mother? No, I have never met her.
lucy		I am sure you think me strange for inquiring--if I dared tell--
mrs jennings		 If she tells you aught of the famous 'Mr F', Lucy, you are to pass it on.
lucy		Will you take a turn with me, Miss Dashwood?
elinor		I had no idea at all that you were connected with that family.
lucy		Oh! I am certainly nothing to Mrs Ferrars at present--but the time may come when we may be very intimately connected.
elinor		 What do you mean? Do you have an understanding with Fanny's brother Robert?
lucy		The youngest? No, I never saw him in my life. No, with Edward.
elinor		Edward?
elinor		Edward Ferrars?
lucy		Edward and I have been secretly engaged these five years.
lucy		You may well be surprised. I should never have mentioned it, had I not known I could entirely trust you to keep our secret. Edward cannot mind me telling you for he looks on you quite as his own sister.
elinor		I am sorry, but we surely--we cannot mean the same Mr Ferrars?
lucy		The very same--he was four years under the tutelage of my uncle Mr Pratt, down in Plymouth. Has he never spoken of it?
elinor		 Mr Pratt! Yes, I believe he has.
lucy		I was very unwilling to enter into it without his mother's approval but we loved each other with too great a passion for prudence. Though you do nor know him so well as I, Miss Dashwood, you must have seen how capable he is of making a woman sincerely attached to him. I cannot pretend it has not been very hard on us both. We can hardly meet above twice a year.
lucy		You seem out of sorts, Miss Dashwood-- are you quite well?
elinor		Perfectly well, thank you.
lucy		I have not offended you?
elinor		On the contrary.
mrs jennings		I can stand it no longer, I must know what you are saying, Lucy! Miss Dashwood is quite engrossed!
lucy		Oh, Miss Dashwood, if anyone finds out, it will ruin him--you must not tell a soul! Edward says you would not break your word to save your life! Promise me!
elinor		I give you my word.
mrs jennings		Well, what can have fascinated you to such an extent, Miss Dashwood?
charlotte		Tell us all!
lucy		We were talking of London, ma'am, and all its--diversions.
mrs jennings		Do you hear, Charlotte?
mrs jennings		While you were so busy whispering, Charlotte and I have concocted a plan!
charlotte		It is the best plan in the world.
mrs jennings		I make for London shortly and I invite you, Lucy, and both the Misses Dashwood to join me!
marianne		London!
margaret		Oh, can I go! Can I go?
mrs dashwood		You know perfectly well you are too young, dearest.
mrs jennings		I shall convey you all to my house in Berkeley Street and we shall taste all the delights of the season--what say you?
margaret		Oh, please can I go? I'm twelve soon.
charlotte		Mr Palmer, do you not long to have the Misses Dashwood come to London?
mr palmer		I came into Devonshire with no other view.
elinor		Mrs Jennings, you are very kind, but we cannot possibly leave our mother...
lucy		Indeed, the loss would be too great.
mrs jennings		Your mother can spare you very well.
mrs dashwood		Of course I can!
charlotte		Of course she can!
sir john		And look at Miss Marianne--it would break her heart to deny her!
mrs jennings		I will brook no refusal, Miss Dashwood!
mrs jennings		Let you and me strike hands upon the bargain--and if I do not have the three of you married by Christmas, it will not be my fault!
marianne		I was never so grateful in all my life as I am to Mrs Jennings. What a kind woman she is! I like her more than I can say. Oh, Elinor! I shall see Willoughby. Think how surprised he will be! And you will see Edward!
marianne		Are you asleep?
elinor		With you in the room?
marianne		I do not believe you feel as calm as you look, not even you, Elinor. I will never sleep tonight! Oh, what were you and Miss Steele whispering about so long?
elinor		Nothing of significance.
lucy		I have written to Edward, Miss Dashwood, and yet I do not know how much I may see of him. Secrecy is vital--he will never be able to call.
elinor		I should imagine not.
lucy		It is so hard. I believe my only comfort has been the constancy of his affection.
elinor		You are fortunate, over such a lengthy engagement, never to have had any doubts on that score.
lucy		Oh! I am of rather a jealous nature and if he had talked more of one young lady than any other... but he has never given a moment's alarm on that count.
lucy		Imagine how glad he will be to learn that we are friends!
mrs jennings		To be sure, my dear, you must just hand it to Pigeon there. He will take care of it.
mrs jennings		Lord above, you do not waste any time, Miss Marianne!
lucy		A letter! So they are definitely engaged! Mrs Jennings says your sister will buy her wedding clothes here in town.
elinor		Indeed Miss Steele, I know of no such plan.
elinor		John and Fanny are in town. I think we shall be forced to see them.
elinor		I think it was for next door.
marianne		Yes, you are right.
marianne		Oh, Elinor! It is Willoughby, indeed it is!
marianne		Oh! Excuse me, Colonel--
elinor		Colonel Brandon, what a pleasure to see you! Have you been in London all this while?
colonel brandon		I have. How is your dear mother?
elinor		Very well, thank you.
elinor		Colonel, is there anything--
colonel brandon		Forgive me, Miss Dashwood, but I have heard reports through town... is it impossible to--but I could have no chance of succeeding--indeed I hardly know what to do. Tell me once and for all, is everything finally resolved between your sister and Mr Willoughby?
elinor		Colonel, though neither one has informed me of their under standing, I have no doubt of their mutual affection.
colonel brandon		Thank you, Miss Dashwood. To your sister I wish all imaginable happiness. To Mr Willoughby, that he... may endeavour to deserve her.
elinor		What do you mean?
colonel brandon		Forgive me, I--forgive me.
marianne		Where is dear Edward, John? We expect to see him daily.
mrs jennings		And who is 'dear Edward'?
charlotte		Who indeed?
fanny		My brother, Mrs Jennings--Edward Ferrars.
mrs jennings		Indeed! Is that Ferrars with an F?
marianne		Are there any messages, Pigeon?
pigeon		No, ma'am.
marianne		No message at all? No cards?
pigeon		 None, ma am.
mrs jennings		I note you do not inquire for your messages, Miss Dashwood!
elinor		No, for I do not expect any, Mrs Jennings. I have very little acquaintance in town.
mrs jennings		She is as sly as you, Lucy!
elinor		Marianne, is anything wrong?
marianne		Nothing at all. Go back to sleep.
pigeon		No messages, ma am.
mrs jennings		Do not fret, my dear. I am told that this good weather is keeping many sportsmen in the country at present, but the frost will drive them back to town very soon, depend upon it.
marianne		Of course! I had not thought of-- thank you, Mrs Jennings!
mrs jennings		And Miss Dashwood may set her heart at rest, for I overheard your sister- in-law say that she was to bring the elusive Mr F to the ball tonight!
charlotte		 This is very merry!
mrs jennings		There you are! Goodness, how hot it is, Mrs Dashwood. You are not alone, I trust?
fanny		Indeed not. John is just gone to fetch my brother--he has been eating ices.
mrs jennings		Your brother! I declare, that is good news indeed. At long last!
lucy		 Miss Dashwood, I declare I shall faint clean away.
john		Mrs Jennings, may I present my brother- in-law?
john		Mr Robert Ferrars!
robert		My dear ladies--we meet at last!
mrs jennings		So you must be the younger brother? Is Mr Edward not here? Miss Dashwood here was counting on him!
robert		Oh! He is far too busy for such gatherings--and has no special acquaintance here to make his attendance worthwhile.
mrs jennings		Well, I declare, I do not know what the young men are about these days-- are they all in hiding?
mrs jennings		Come, Mr Robert, in the absence of your brother, you must dance with our lovely Miss Dashwood!
robert		 It would be my honour.
robert		And perhaps Miss Steele might consider reserving the allemande?
robert		You reside in Devonshire, I b'lieve, Miss Dashwood?
elinor		We do.
robert		In a cottage?
elinor		Yes.
robert		I am excessively fond of a cottage. If I had any money to spare, I should build one myself.
willoughby		 How do you do, Miss Dashwood?
elinor		I am well, thank you, Mr Willoughby.
willoughby		How is your--family?
elinor		 We are all extremely well, Mr Willoughby--thank you for your kind inquiry.
marianne		Willoughby!
marianne		Good God, Willoughby! Will you nor shake hands with me?
willoughby		 How do you do, Miss Marianne?
marianne		Willoughby, what is the matter? Why have you not come to see me? Were you not in London? Have you nor received my letters?
willoughby		Yes, I had the pleasure of receiving the information which you were so good as to send me.
marianne		 For heaven's sake, Willoughby, tell me what is wrong!
willoughby		Thank you--I am most obliged. If you will excuse me, I must return to my party.
marianne		Willoughby!
elinor		Marianne! Come away!
marianne		Go to him, Elinor--force him to come to me.
elinor		Dearest, do not betray what you feel to everyone present! This is not the place for explanations--
mrs jennings		Come along, dear.
mrs jennings		Will you come, Lucy?
lucy		Oh, are we leaving so soon?
robert		If I might be so bold, Mrs Jennings, it would be our pleasure to escort your young charge home.
lucy		How very kind!
mrs jennings		That is very handsome--
robert		She actually sent him messages during the night?
elinor		Marianne, please tell me--
marianne		Do not ask me questions!
elinor		You have no confidence in me.
marianne		This reproach from you! You, who confide in no one.
elinor		I have nothing to tell.
marianne		Nor I. We have neither of us anything to tell. I because I conceal nothing and you because you communicate nothing.
mrs jennings		There now! Lovers' quarrels are swift to heal! That letter will do the trick, mark my word.
mrs jennings		I must be off. I hope he won't keep her waiting much longer, Miss Dashwood. It hurts to see her looking so forlorn.
lucy		What a welcome I had from Edward's family, Miss Dashwood--I am surprised you never told me what an agreeable woman your sister-in-law is! And Mr Robert--all so affable!
elinor		It is perhaps fortunate that none of them knows of your engagement. Excuse me.
marianne		'My dear Madam--I am quite at a loss to discover in what point I could be so unfortunate as to offend you. My esteem for your family is very sincere but if I have given rise to a belief of more than I felt or meant to express, I shall reproach myself for not having been more guarded. My affections have long been engaged elsewhere and it is with great regret that I return your letters and the lock of hair which you so obligingly bestowed upon me. I am etc. John Willoughby.'
elinor		Oh, Marianne.
elinor		Marianne, oh, Marianne--it is better to know at once what his intentions are. Dearest, think of what you would have felt if your engagement had carried on for months and months before he chose to put an end to it.
marianne		We are not engaged.
elinor		But you wrote to him! I thought then that he must have left you with some kind of understanding?
marianne		No--he is not so unworthy as you think him.
elinor		Not so unworthy! Did he tell you that he loved you?
marianne		Yes. No--never absolutely. It was every day implied, but never declared. Sometimes I thought it had been, but it never was. He has broken no vow.
elinor		He has broken faith with all of us, he made us all believe he loved you.
marianne		He did! He did--he loved me as I loved him.
mrs jennings		I had to come straight up--how are you, Miss Marianne?
mrs jennings		Poor thing! She looks very bad. No wonder, Miss Dashwood, for it is but too true. I was told here in the street by Miss Morton, who is a great friend: he is to be married at the end of the month--to a Miss Grey with fifty thousand pounds. Well, said I, if 'tis true, then he is a good-for-nothing who has used my young friend abominably ill, and I wish with all my soul that his wife may plague his heart out!
mrs jennings		But he is not the only young man worth having, my dear, and with your pretty face you will never want for admirers.
mrs jennings		Ah, me! She had better have her cry out and have done with it. I will go and look out something to tempt her-- does she care for olives?
elinor		I cannot tell you.
marianne		I cannot believe his nature capable of such cruelty!
elinor		Marianne, there is no excuse for him-- this is his hand--
marianne		But it cannot be his heart! Oh, Mamma! I want Mamma! Elinor, please take me home! Cannot we go tomorrow?
elinor		There is no one to take us.
marianne		Cannot we hire a carriage?
elinor		We have no money--and indeed we owe Mrs Jennings more courtesy.
marianne		All she wants is gossip and she only likes me because I supply it! Oh, God! I cannot endure to stay.
elinor		I will find a way. I promise.
robert		Apparently they never were engaged.
fanny		Miss Grey has fifty thousand pounds. Marianne is virtually penniless.
john		She cannot have expected him to go through with it. But I feel for Marianne--she will lose her bloom and end a spinster like Elinor. I think, my dear, we might consider having them to stay with us for a few days--we are, after all, family, and my father.
fanny		My love, I would ask them with all my heart, but I have already asked Miss Steele for a visit and we cannot deprive Mrs Jennings of all her company at once. We can invite your sisters some other year, you know, and Miss Steele will profit far more from your generosity--poor girl!
john		That is very thoughtful, Fanny. We shall ask Elinor and Marianne next year, then... Certainly!
elinor		Thank you for coming, Colonel.
colonel brandon		How does your sister?
elinor		I must get her home as quickly as possible. The Palmers can take us as far as Cleveland, which is but a day from Barton--
colonel brandon		Then permit me to accompany you and take you straight on from Cleveland to Barton myself.
elinor		I confess that is precisely what I had hoped for. Marianne suffers cruelly, and what pains me most is how hard she tries to justify Mr Willoughby. But you know her disposition.
colonel brandon		Perhaps I--my regard for you all-- Miss Dashwood, will you allow me to prove it by relating some circumstances which nothing but an earnest desire of being useful--
elinor		You have something to tell me of Mr Willoughby.
colonel brandon		 When I quitted Barton last--but I must go further back. A short account of myself will be necessary. No doubt... no doubt Mrs Jennings has apprised you of certain events in my past--the sad outcome of my connection with a young woman named Eliza.
colonel brandon		What is not commonly known is that twenty years ago, Eliza bore an illegitimate child. The father, whoever he was, abandoned them.
colonel brandon		As she lay dying, she begged me to look after the child. Eliza died in my arms, broken, wasted away--ah! Miss Dashwood, such a subject-- untouched for so many years--it is dangerous...
colonel brandon		I had failed Eliza in every other way--I could not refuse her now. I took the child--Beth is her name-- and placed her with a family where I could be sure she would be well looked after. I saw her whenever I could. I saw that she was headstrong like her mother--and, God forgive me, I indulged her, I allowed her too much freedom. Almost a year ago, she disappeared.
elinor		Disappeared!
colonel brandon		I instigated a search but for eight months I was left to imagine the worst. At last, on the day of the Delaford picnic, I received the first news her. She was with child... and the blackguard who had--
elinor		Good God. Do you mean--Willoughby?
colonel brandon		Before I could return to confront him, Lady Allen learned of his behaviour and turned him from the house. He beat a hasty retreat to London--
elinor		Yes! He left us that morning, without any explanation!
colonel brandon		Lady Allen had annulled his legacy. He was left with next to nothing, and in danger of losing all that remained to his debtors--
elinor		--and so abandoned Marianne for Miss Grey and her fifty thousand pounds.
elinor		Have you seen Mr Willoughby since you learned...?
brandon		 We met by appointment, he to defend, I to punish his conduct.
brandon		We returned unwounded, so the meeting never got abroad.
elinor		Is Beth still in town?
colonel brandon		She has chosen to go into the country for her confinement. Such has been the unhappy resemblance between the fate of mother and daughter, and so imperfectly have I discharged my trust.
colonel brandon		I would not have burdened you, Miss Dashwood, had I not from my heart believed it might, in time, lessen your sister's regrets.
colonel brandon		I have described Mr Willoughby as the worst of libertines--but I have since learned from Lady Allen that he did mean to propose that day. Therefore I cannot deny that his intentions towards Marianne were honourable, and I feel certain he would have married her, had it not been for--for the money.
elinor		Dearest, was I right to tell you?
marianne		Of course.
elinor		Whatever his past actions, whatever his present course, at least you may be certain that he loved you.
marianne		But not enough. Not enough.
mrs jennings		Here is someone to cheer you up, Miss Dashwood!
lucy		How is your dear sister, Miss Dashwood? Poor thing! I must say, I do not know what I should do if a man treated me with so little respect.
elinor		I hope you are enjoying your stay with John and Fanny, Miss Steele?
lucy		I was never so happy in my entire life, Miss Dashwood! I do believe your sister-in-law has taken quite a fancy to me. I had to come and tell you--for you cannot imagine what has happened!
elinor		No, I cannot.
lucy		Yesterday I was introduced to Edward's mother!
elinor		Indeed?
lucy		And she was a vast deal more than civil. I have not yet seen Edward but now I feel sure to very soon--
maid		There's a Mr Edward Ferrars to see you, Miss Dashwood.
elinor		Do ask him to come up.
edward		Miss Dashwood, how can I--
elinor		Mr Ferrars, what a pleasure to see you. You... know Miss Steele, of course.
edward		How do you do, Miss Steele.
lucy		I am well, thank you, Mr Ferrars.
elinor		Do sit down, Mr Ferrars.
lucy		You must be surprised to find me here, Mr Ferrars! I expect you thought I was at your sister's house.
elinor		Let me call Marianne, Mr Ferrars. She would be most disappointed to miss you.
marianne		Edward! I heard your voice! At last you have found us!
edward		Forgive me, Marianne, my visit is shamefully overdue. You are pale. I hope you have not been unwell?
marianne		Oh, don't think of me--Elinor is well, you see, that must be enough for both of us!
edward		How do you like London, Marianne?
marianne		Not at all. The sight of you is all the pleasure it has afforded, is that not so, Elinor?
marianne		Why have you taken so long to come and see us?
edward		I have been much engaged elsewhere.
marianne		Engaged elsewhere! But what was that when there were such friends to be met?
lucy		Perhaps, Miss Marianne, you think young men never honour their engagements, little or great.
marianne		No, indeed--for Edward is the most fearful of giving pain and the most incapable of being selfish of anyone I ever saw.
marianne		Edward, will you not sit? Elinor, help me to persuade him.
edward		Forgive me but I must take my leave--
marianne		But you are only just arrived!
edward		You must excuse me, I have a commission to attend to for Fanny--
lucy		In that case perhaps you might escort me back to your sister's house, Mr Ferrars?
edward		I would be honoured. Goodbye, Miss Dashwood, Miss Marianne.
marianne		Why did you not urge him to stay?
elinor		He must have had his reasons for going.
marianne		His reason was no doubt your coldness. If I were Edward I would assume you did not care for me at all.
lucy		Poor Miss Marianne looked very badly t'other day. When I think of her, deserted and abandoned, it frightens me to think I shall never marry.
fanny		Nonsense. You will marry far better than either of the Dashwood girls.
lucy		How can that possibly be?
fanny		You have ten times their sense and looks.
lucy		But I have no dowry.
fanny		There are qualities which will always make up for that, and you have them in abundance. It would not surprise me if you were to marry far and away beyond your expectations.
lucy		I wish it might be so. There is a young man--
fanny		Ah ha! I am glad to hear of it. Is he of good breeding and fortune?
lucy		Oh both--but his family would certainly oppose the match.
fanny		Tush! They will allow it as soon as they see you, my dear.
lucy		It is a very great secret. I have told no one in the world for fear of discovery.
fanny		My dear, I am the soul of discretion.
lucy		If I dared tell...
fanny		I can assure you I am as silent as the grave.
mrs jennings		Oh, my dears! What a commotion! Mr Edward Ferrars--the very one I used to joke you about, Miss Dashwood-- has been engaged these five years to Lucy Steele!
mrs jennings		Poor Mr Ferrars! His mother, who by all accounts is very proud, demanded that he break the engagement on pain of disinheritance. But he has refused to break his promise to Lucy. He has stood by her, good man, and is cut off without a penny! She has settled it all irrevocably upon Mr Robert. But I cannot stop, I must go to Lucy. Your sister-in-law scolded her like any fury--drove her to hysterics.
marianne		How long have you known?
elinor		Since the evening Mrs Jennings offered to take us to London.
marianne		Why did you not tell me?
elinor		Lucy told me in the strictest confidence.
elinor		I could not break my word.
marianne		But Edward loves you.
elinor		He made me no promises. He tried to tell me about Lucy.
marianne		He cannot marry her.
elinor		Would you have him treat her even worse than Willoughby has treated you?
marianne		No--but nor would I have him marry where he does not love.
elinor		Edward made his promise a long time ago, long before he met me. Though he may... harbour some regret, I believe he will be happy--in the knowledge that he did his duty and kept his word. After all--after all that is bewitching in the idea of one's happiness depending entirely on one person, it is not always possible. We must accept. Edward will marry Lucy--and you and I will go home.
marianne		Always resignation and acceptance! Always prudence and honour and duty! Elinor, where is your heart?
elinor		What do you know of my heart? What do you know of anything but your own suffering? For weeks, Marianne, I have had this pressing on me without being at liberty to speak of it to a single creature. It was forced upon me by the very person whose prior claims ruined all my hopes. I have had to endure her exultation again and again while knowing myself to be divided from Edward forever. Believe me, Marianne, had I not been bound to silence I could have produced proof enough of a broken heart even for you.
marianne		Oh, Elinor!
colonel brandon		Have I been rightly informed? Is it so?
elinor		It is indeed so. Are you acquainted with Mr Ferrars?
colonel brandon		No, we have never met. But I know only too well the cruelty--the impolitic cruelty of dividing two young people long attached to one another. Mrs Ferrars does not know what she may drive her son to--
colonel brandon		I have a proposal to make that should enable him to marry Miss Steele immediately. Since the gentleman is so close a friend to your family, perhaps you will be good enough to mention it to him?
elinor		Colonel, I am sure he would be only too delighted to hear it from your own lips.
colonel brandon		I think not. His behaviour has proved him proud--in the best sense. I feel certain this is the right course.
elinor		Mr Ferrars.
edward		Miss Dashwood.
elinor		Thank you for responding so promptly to my message.
edward		I was most grateful to receive it. I-- Miss Dashwood, God knows what you must think of me...
elinor		Mr Ferrars--
edward		I have no right to speak, I know--
elinor		Mr Ferrars, I have good news. I think you know of our friend Colonel Brandon?
edward		Yes, I have heard his name.
elinor		Colonel Brandon desires me to say that, understanding you wish to join the clergy, he has great pleasure in offering you the parish on his estate at Delaford, now just vacant, in the hope that it may enable you--and Miss Steele--to marry.
edward		Colonel Brandon?
elinor		Yes. He means it as testimony of his concern for--for the cruel situation in which you find yourselves.
edward		Colonel Brandon give me a parish? Can it be possible?
elinor		The unkindness of your family has made you astonished to find friendship elsewhere.
edward		No. Not to find it in you. I cannot be ignorant that to you--to your goodness--I owe it all. I feel it. I would express it if I could, but, as you know, I am no orator.
elinor		You are very much mistaken. I assure you that you owe it almost entirely to your own merit--I have had no hand in it.
edward		Colonel Brandon must be a man of great worth and respect ability.
elinor		He is the kindest and best of men.
edward		May I enquire why the Colonel did not tell me himself?
elinor		I think he felt it would be better coming from... a friend.
edward		Your friendship has been the most important of my life.
elinor		You will always have it.
edward		Forgive me.
elinor		Mr Ferrars, you honour your promises-- that is more important than anything else. I wish you--both--very happy.
edward		Goodbye, Miss Dashwood.
charlotte		What a stroke of luck for Lucy and Edward to find a parish so close to Barton! You will all be able to meet very often. That will cheer you up, Miss Marianne. I do declare I have never disliked a person so much as I do Mr Willoughby, for your sake. Insufferable man! To think we can see his insufferable house from the top of our hill!
charlotte		I shall ask Jackson to plant some very tall trees.
mr palmer		 You will do nothing of the sort.
elinor		 I do not think she drew breath from the moment we left London. It is my fault--I should have found some other way of getting home.
marianne		There was no other way you said so yourself.
elinor		We shall be home soon enough. Mamma will comfort you, dearest.
marianne		I am stiff from sitting so long. Will you tell Charlotte that I am going for a stroll? ELINOR glances at the sky in concern.
elinor		I think it is going to rain.
marianne		No, no, it will not rain.
elinor		You always say that and then it always does.
marianne		I will keep to the garden, near the house.
charlotte		We are very proud of our little Thomas, Colonel--and his papa has such a way with him...
charlotte		There you are, Miss Dashwood! Mr Palmer and the Colonel have locked themselves up in the billiard room. Come and meet little Thomas. Where is Miss Marianne?
elinor		She is taking a little air in the garden.
charlotte		Oh, very good. That is the great advantage of the countryside--all the fresh air and... and all the fresh air...
charlotte		 He is the best child in the world-- he never cries unless he wants to and then, Lord, there is no stopping him.
elinor		I cannot see Marianne.
charlotte		She has probably taken shelter in one of the greenhouses!
marianne		Love is not love Which alters when it alteration finds Or bends with the remover to remove: 0, no! it is an ever-fixed mark That looks on tempests and is never shaken...
colonel brandon		Marianne!
marianne		Willoughby... Willoughby...
charlotte		One thing is certain--she will be wet through when she returns.
mr palmer		Thank you for pointing that out, my dear. Do not worry, Miss Dashwood-- Brandon will find her. I think we can all guess where she went.
colonel brandon		She is not hurt--but we must get her warm!
elinor		I think Marianne may need a doctor.
charlotte		You'll wear yourself out, Colonel! Do not worry! A day or two in bed will soon set her to rights!
mr palmer		You can rely upon Harris, Colonel. I have never found a better physician.
colonel brandon		 What is your diagnosis?
dr harris		It is an infectious fever that has taken far more serious hold than I would have expected in one so young. I would recommend the hasty removal of your child, Mr Palmer--
charlotte		Mrs Bunting! Mrs Bunting!
mr palmer		My dear Miss Dashwood, I am more sorry than I can say. If you would prefer me to stay I am at your service.
elinor		Mr Palmer, that is very kind. But Colonel Brandon and Dr Harris will look after us. Thank you for everything you have done.
dr harris		She is not doing as well as I would like.
colonel brandon		What can I do?
elinor		Colonel, you have done so much already.
colonel brandon		Give me an occupation, Miss Dashwood, or I shall run mad. He is dangerously quiet.
elinor		She would be easier if her mother were here.
colonel brandon		Of course. Barton is but eight hours away. If I make no stop, you may see us early tomorrow morning.
colonel brandon		In your hands I know she will be safe.
dr harris		Double the number of drops and I will return as soon as I can.
marianne		Who is that?
marianne		Look, look, Elinor.
elinor		There is no one there, dearest.
marianne		It is Papa. Papa has come.
marianne		Dearest Papa!
dr harris		I must fetch more laudanum. I cannot pretend, Miss Dashwood, that your sister's condition is not very serious. You must prepare yourself. I will return very shortly.
elinor		Marianne, Marianne, please try--
elinor		Marianne, please try--I cannot--I cannot do without you. Oh, please, I have tried to bear everything else-- I will try--but please, dearest, beloved Marianne, do not leave me alone.
elinor		My mother!
elinor		Mamma! She is out of danger!
mrs dashwood		There, there, my love, my Marianne.
marianne		Where is Elinor?
elinor		I am here, dearest, I am here.
marianne		Colonel Brandon.
marianne		Thank you.
colonel brandon		Nor is the earth the lesse, or loseth aught. For whatsoever from one place doth fall, Is with the tide unto another brought...
colonel brandon		'For there is nothing lost, but may be found, if sought...
marianne		Shall we continue tomorrow?
colonel brandon		No--for I must away.
marianne		Away? Where?
colonel brandon		 That I cannot tell you. It is a secret.
marianne		 But you will not stay away long?
marianne		There.
marianne		There I fell, and there I first saw Willoughby.
elinor		Poor Willoughby. He will always regret you.
marianne		But does it follow that, had he chosen me, he would have been content?
marianne		He would have had a wife he loved but no money--and might soon have learned to rank the demands of his pocket-book far above the demands of his heart.
marianne		If his present regrets are half as painful as mine, he will suffer enough.
elinor		Do you compare your conduct with his?
marianne		No. I compare it with what it ought to have been. I compare it with yours.
elinor		Our situations were very different.
marianne		My illness has made me consider the past. I saw in my own behaviour nothing but imprudence--and worse. I was insolent and unjust to everyone--
marianne		--but you--you I wronged above all. Only I knew your heart and its sorrows but even then I was never a grain more compassionate. I brought my illness upon myself--I wanted to destroy myself. And had I succeeded, what misery should I have caused you?
marianne		I shall mend my ways! I shall no longer worry others nor torture myself. I am determined to enter on a course of serious study---Colonel Brandon has promised me the run of his library and I shall read at least six hours a day. By the end of the year I expect to have improved my learning a very great deal.
margaret		You'll go blind if you're not careful.
mrs dashwood		Is Thomas back from Exeter, Betsy?
betsy		Yes, ma'am--he brung back two lovely fillets for you.
mrs dashwood		Beef is far less expensive in Exeter, and anyway they are for Marianne.
betsy		Sixpence a piece, Miss Dashwood. Oh, and he says Mr Ferrars is married, but I suppose you know that, ma'am.
mrs dashwood		Fetch Thomas to us, Betsy.
thomas		Beg pardon, Miss Dashwood, but they was the cheapest in the market--
mrs dashwood		It was a very good price, Thomas, well done. Would you be so kind as to build up the fire a little?
thomas		 Yes, ma'am.
mrs dashwood		Who told you that Mr Ferrars was married, Thomas?
thomas		I seen him myself, ma'am, and his lady too, Miss Lucy Steele as was-- they were stopping in a chaise at the New London Inn. I happened to look up as I passed the chaise and I see it was Miss Steele. So I took off my hat and she inquired after you, ma'am, and all the young ladies, especially Miss Dashwood, and bid me I should give you her and Mr Ferrars's best compliments and service and how they'd be sure to send you a piece of the cake.
mrs dashwood		Was Mr Ferrars in the carriage with her?
thomas		Yes, ma'am--I just seen him leaning back in it, but he did not look up.
elinor		Did--
marianne		Did Mrs Ferrars seem well?
thomas		Yes, Miss Marianne--she said how she was vastly contented and, since she was always a very affable young lady, I made free to wish her joy.
mrs dashwood		Thank you, Thomas.
mrs dashwood		Your father once told me not to allow you to neglect yourself. Now I find that it is I who have neglected you most.
elinor		No, Mamma.
mrs dashwood		Yes, I have. We all have. Marianne is right.
elinor		I am very good at hiding.
mrs dashwood		Then we must observe you more closely.
elinor		Mamma?
mrs dashwood		Yes, my darling?
elinor		There is a painful difference between the expectation of an unpleasant event and its final certainty.
mrs dashwood		'At last I have found a small enough instrument to fir the parlour. I expect to follow it in a day or two, by which time I expect you to have learned the enclosed. Your devoted friend, Christopher Brandon.'
margaret		He must like you very much, Marianne.
marianne		It is not just for me! It is for all of us.
mrs dashwood		Here is Colonel Brandon! Marianne!
elinor		I do not think it is the Colonel.
mrs dashwood		It must be. He said he would arrive today. You must play him the new song, Marianne.
margaret		Edward!
margaret		It is Edward!
mrs dashwood		Calm. We must be calm.
betsy		Mr Ferrars for you, ma'am.
mrs dashwood		 Edward! What a pleasure to see you.
edward		Mrs Dashwood. Miss Marianne. Margaret. Miss Dashwood. I hope I find you all well.
marianne		Thank you, Edward, we are all very well.
margaret		We have been enjoying very fine weather.
margaret		Well, we have.
edward		I am glad of it. The... the roads were very dry.
mrs dashwood		 May I wish you great joy, Edward.
marianne		I hope you have left Mrs Ferrars well?
edward		Tolerably, thank you.
edward		I--But EDWARD cannot seem to find any words.
mrs dashwood		Is Mrs Ferrars at the new parish?
edward		No--my mother is in town.
mrs dashwood		I meant to enquire after Mrs Edward Ferrars.
edward		Then you have not heard--the news--I think you mean my brother--you mean Mrs Robert Ferrars.
mrs dashwood		Mrs Robert Ferrars?
edward		Yes. I received a letter from Miss Steele--or Mrs Ferrars, I should say-- communicating the... the transfer of her affections to my brother Robert. They were much thrown together in London, I believe, and... and in view of the change in my circumstances, I felt it only fair that Miss Steele be released from our engagement. At any rate, they were married last week and are now in Plymouth.
elinor		Then you--are not married.
edward		No.
edward		Elinor! I met Lucy when I was very young. Had I had an active profession, I should never have felt such an idle, foolish inclination. At Norland my behaviour was very wrong. But I convinced myself you felt only friendship for me and it was my heart alone that I was risking. I have come with no expectations. Only to profess, now that I am at liberty to do so, that my heart is and always will be yours.
margaret		He's sitting next to her!
mrs dashwood		 Margaret! Will you stop--
marianne		What's happening now?
mrs dashwood		Marianne!
mrs dashwood		Oh! Is he? Oh!
elinor		Your mother, I suppose, will hardly be less angry with Robert for marrying Lucy.
edward		The more so since she settled the money upon him so irrevocably--
elinor		--no doubt because she had run out of sons to disinherit.
edward		Her family fluctuates at an alarming rate. Then, in London, when you told me of the Colonel's offer, I became convinced that you wanted me to marry Lucy and that--well, that you and Colonel Brandon...
elinor		Me and Colonel Brandon!
edward		I shall not forget attempting to thank him for making it possible for me to marry the woman I did not love while convinced he had designs upon the woman I did--do--love.
edward		Would you--can you--excuse me--
****Dialogues from script :Serenity.txt****

girl		Now that the war's over, our soldiers get to come home, yes?
teacher		Some of them. Some will be stationed on the rim planets as Peace Enforcers.
boy		I don't understand. Why were the Independents even fighting us? Why wouldn't they look to be more civilized?
teacher		That's a good question. Does anybody want to open on that?
girl		I hear they're cannibals.
another boy		That's only Reavers.
another girl		Reavers aren't real.
another boy		Full well they are. They attack settlers from space, they kill them and wear their skins and rape them for hours and hours --
river		We meddle.
teacher		River? RIVER is a dark, intense little girl, writing with one hand and "typing" with the other.  She is a good two years younger than the other kids.
river		People don't like to be meddled with. We tell them what to do, what to think, don't run don't walk we're in their homes and in their heads and we haven't the right. We're meddlesome.
teacher		(gently taking her
first technician		Nightmare?
doctor mathias		Let's amp it up. Delcium, eight- drop. DOCTOR MATHIAS is not instantly likable -- nor gradually, for that matter. A cold man, and more than a little satisfied with himself.
simon		I've heard that.
doctor mathias		She's a genius. Her mental capacity is extraordinary, even with the side-effects.
simon		Tell me about them.
doctor mathias		Well, obviously, she's unstable... the neural stripping gives them heightened cognitive reception, but it also destabilizes their own reality matrix. It manifests as borderline schizophrenia... which at this point is the price for being truly psychic.
simon		 What use do we have for a psychic if she's insane?
doctor mathias		I don't have to tell you the security potential of someone who can read minds. And she has lucid periods -- we hope to improve upon the... I'm sorry, Sir, I have to ask if there's some reason for this inspection.
doctor mathias		Key members of Parliament have personally observed this subject. I was told their support for the project was unanimous. The demonstration of her power --
simon		 How is she physically?
doctor mathias		Like nothing we've seen. All our subjects are conditioned for combat, but River... she's a creature of extraordinary grace.
simon		Yes. She always did love to dance. He drops to one knee, slamming his baton to the floor.
river		Simon. A beat, as they face each other, Simon fighting emotion.
simon		We can't make it to the surface from inside. Simon turns suddenly as he hears footsteps, people heading at them from the other side of the doors. 4wo SIMON
simon		Get on! He is standing by the window -- and the Security Agent is right behind him, PUNCHING the window with all his might. Simon helps River onto the gurney, then jumps on himself as the Security Agent cracks the glass. The two are whisked up in the gurney, River on her knees, Simon standing beside her holding one of the cables --
the operative		Biograph. Simon Tam.
doctor mathias		Excuse me! No one is allowed in the records room without my express permission.
the operative		 Forgive me. I prefer to see the event alone, without bias. Mathias looks at the hologram -- realizes which one it is.
doctor mathias		I need to see your clearance.
the operative		You're right to insist. I know you've had security issues here. He places his hand on a screen as he says it. Mathias looks at the readout, and drops the bluster.
doctor mathias		Apologies. An Operative of the Parliament will of course have full cooperation.  I'm not sure what... I see no listing of rank, or name.
the operative		I have neither. Like this facility, I don't exist. The Parliament calls me in when... when they wish they didn't have to. Let's talk about the Tams.
doctor mathias		I assume you've scanned the status logs...
the operative		River was your greatest success. A prodigy -- A phenomenon. Until her brother walked in eight months ago and took her from you.
doctor mathias		It's not quite so simple.
the operative		I'm very aware of that.
doctor mathias		He came in with full creds. He beat the ap-scan, the retinal... There was no way I could --
the operative		No, no. Of course. The boy spent his fortune developing the contacts to infiltrate this place.
doctor mathias		Gave up a brilliant future in. medicine as well, you've probably read. Turned his back on his whole life. Madness.
the operative		Madness, no. Something a good deal more dangerous. Have you looked at this scan carefully? At his face? Mathias looks uncertain.
doctor mathias		Why are you here?
the operative		I'm here because the situation is even less simple than you think.  Do you know what your sin is, Doctor?
doctor mathias		I. I would be very careful about what you --
doctor mathias		Key members of Parliament have personally observed this subject. I was told their support --
the operative		 Key members of Parliament. Key. The minds behind every diplomatic, military and covert operation in the galaxy, and you put them in a room with a psychic.
doctor mathias		She was... she read cards, nothing more.
the operative		It's come to our attention that River became much more unstable, more... disturbed, after you showed her off to Parliament. Did she see something very terrible in those cards?
doctor mathias		Whatever... secrets she might have accidentally gleaned... it's probable she doesn't even know she knows them. That they're buried beneath --
the operative		But they are in her. Her mind is unquiet. It's the will of the Parliament that I kill her. And the brother. Because of your sin.
the operative		 You know, in certain older civilized cultures, when men failed as entirely as you have, they would throw themselves on their swords.
doctor mathias		 Well, unfortunately I forgot to bring a sword to -- The air rings crisply as the Operative pulls out his sword.
the operative		The Parliament has no further interest in psychics. They represent a threat to the harmony and stability of our Alliance.
doctor mathias		I would put that down right now if I were you.
the operative		Would you be killed in your sleep, like an ailing pet? Whatever your failings, I believe you deserve better than that. The agents move. He slices the throat of the one behind him with true grace, thrusting at the second as he's pulling out his gun and pinning his hand. A moment, and the dying agent reflexively squeezes the trigger, shooting his own arm. The Operative pulls out the sword and the agent falls as quietly as the first. Mathias bolts but the Operative pins him to the wall. He bunches his fingers and jabs the side of the Doctor's spine. Mathias stiffens, suddenly, agonizingly immobile. The Operative steps back, observes the Doctor's rigid grimace for a moment. Almost ceremoniously, he drops to one knee and holds the blade out to one side, hilt to the floor and point tilted toward the doctor. The Doctor stares at it in horror as his paralyzed body begins to tip over toward it. The Operative turns toward the terrified intern at the door.
serenity		 10
mal		What was that? He's addressing the pilot, WASH. Flight gear and a hawaiian shirt, toy dinosaurs populating his station -- no old soldier, but just as startled.
wash		Whoah! Did you see that -- The ship bucks --
mal		Was that the primary buffer panel?
wash		It did seem to resemble --
mal		Did the Primary Buffer Panel just fall off my gorramn ship for no apparent reason? Another buck --
wash		Looks like.
mal		I thought Kaylee checked our entry couplings! I have a very clear memory of it --
wash		Yeah well if she doesn't give us some extra flow from the engine room to offset the burnthrough this landing is gonna get pretty interesting.
mal		Define "Interesting".
wash		 "Oh god, oh god, we're all gonna die?"
mal		 Can you shave the vector --
wash		I'm doing it! It's not enough.  Kaylee!
mal		Just get us on the ground!
wash		That part'll happen, pretty definitely.
jayne		we're gonna explode? I don't wanna explode.
mal		Jayne, how many weapons you plan on bringing? You only got the two arms...
jayne		I just get excitable as to choice, like to have my options open.
mal		I don't plan on any shooting taking place during this job.
jayne		Well, what you plan and what takes place ain't ever exactly been similar.
mal		No grenades.  No grenades. First Mate ZOE enters from the lower level. Her mode of dress and military deference mark her as a war buddy of Mal's.
zoe		Are we crashing again?
mal		Talk to your husband. Is the mule prepped?
zoe		Good to go, sir. Just loading her up.  Are those grenades?
jayne		Cap'n doesn't want 'em.
zoe		We're robbing the place. We're not occupying it. All that plays in the background as we lead Mal into the:
mal		 Kaylee! He enters:
mal		 Kaylee, what in the sphincter of hell are you playing at? The hall leads to the rust-brown chaos that is the engine room. Working around the engine in a forest of wires, sparks and smoke is the sweetly pretty mechanic, KAYLEE. She passes Mal with a slightly impatient smile as he stands in the doorway, raising his voice above the din.
kaylee		Everything's shiny, Cap'n. Not to fret.
mal		You told me --
mal		My ship don't crash. If she crashes, you crashed her.
simon		I'm not worried.
mal		Fear is nothing to be ashamed of, Doc.
simon		This isn't fear. This is anger.
simon		I imagine if it were fear, my eyes would be wider.
mal		I'll look for that next time.
simon		You're not taking her.
mal		 No no, that's not a thing I'm interested in talking over with --
simon		She's not going with you. That's final.
mal		 This is my boat. Y'all are guests on it. He heads down a side corridor that has steps leading down to:
simon		Guests? I earn my passage, Captain --
mal		And it's time your little sister learned from your fine example.
simon		I've earned my passage treating bullet holes, knife wounds, laser burns...
mal		Some of our jobs are trickier than others --
simon		And you want to put my sister in the middle of that.
mal		Didn't say 'want'. Said 'will'. It's one job, Doc. She'll be fine. The passenger dorm has a time-worn warmth that most of the ship shares. Except, of course, for the sterile blue of:
simon		She's a seventeen year old girl. A mentally traumatized sevente--
mal		She's a reader. Sees into the truth of things; might see trouble before it's coming. Which is of use to me.
simon		And that's your guiding star, isn't it? What's of use.
simon		Do you understand what I've gone through to keep River away from the Alliance?
mal		I do, and it's a fact me and mine have been courteous enough to keep to our own selves.
simon		Are you threatening to --
mal		I got one purpose here: keep this boat in the air. I take the jobs I get -- which is less and less, case you ain't been keeping track. He starts away, Simon still keeping pace.
mal		So here is us, on the raggedy edge. Don't push me and I won't push you. Simon starts up the stairs as Mal calls to him:
zoe		Like a downy feather, sir. Nobody flies like my mister. The camera picks up Simon's feet as they enter foreground on the catwalk, and track with them to find:
simon		River... She's lying on her side, looking straight at us. A loose summer dress draped over her small frame.
river		I know. We're going for a ride.
simon		Now, River, you stay behind the others. If there's fighting you drop to the floor or run away. It's okay to leave them to die. River puts on a huge pair of goggles, looks at her brother.
river		I'm the brains of the operation.
zoe		We should hit town right during Sunday worship. Won't be any crowds.
mal		If Fanty and Mingo are right about the payroll, this could look to be a sunny day for us.
mal		Doctor, I'm taking your sister under my protection here. If anything happens to her, anything at all, I swear to you I will get very choked up. Honestly. There could be tears. He peels out, leaves Simon fuming. Kaylee sidles up to him...
kaylee		Don't mind the Captain none, Simon. I know he'll look out for her.
simon		It's amazing. I bring River all the way out to the raggedy edge of the 'verse so she can hide from the Alliance by robbing banks.
kaylee		It's just a little Trading Station. They'll be back 'fore you can spit.  Not that you spit...
jayne		What are we hoping to find here that equals the worth of a turd?
mal		Alliance payroll. There's peace enforcing squads stationed all about this quadrant. Can't use credits out here -- they got to pay their boys in cashy money. Which once a month rests here.
zoe		Something about stealing from the Alliance just warms a body like whiskey in winter.
jayne		 Shiny. Let's be badguys. Mal turns back to River.
mal		You ready to go to work, darlin'?
river		There's no pattern to the pebbles here, they're completely random. I tried to count them but you drove too fast. Hummingbird.
mal		 Right. Great. Let's go.
mal		Hands and knees and heads bowed down! Everybody, now! Two men who appear to be farm folk rush Mal and the others. Mal draws on the elder one and he stops dead in his tracks. Mal's gun is long, not unlike Civil War era issue, but very much new in design. The other tries to tackle Jayne, which is not necessarily a great idea. Jayne clotheslines him so hard he spins right upside-down -- and Jayne grabs him by the legs and CRACK! -- bounces his head right off the floor, knocking him out cold.
jayne		Looks like this is the place. He looks up at Mal, who motions for Zoe to open the front door. She does, and River steps in. ANGLE: RIVER'S BARE FEET -- walking slowly among the hunched- over customers as Mal addresses them.
mal		You've probably guessed we mean to be thieving here, but what we are after is not yours. So let's have no undue fussing. As he is speaking, Jayne is scrambling to the back office, finding the small vault locked.
jayne		She's locked up. River suddenly looks around, perturbed. CLOSE ON: a young tough. River looks up at Zoe, alarmed, and silently points to the young man. He is slowly reaching for the weapon in his belt. He finds Zoe's sawed-off nuzzling his cheek.
zoe		You know what the definition of a hero is? It's someone who gets other people killed. You can look it up later. He drops his weapon, slides it across the floor. Mal moves to the Trade Agent. Hauls him up, tosses him toward the vault. Zoe and Jayne follow.
trade agent		This is just a crop moon, don't think you'll find what you --
mal		 140 The old man punches in the code. What opens is a tiny wall safe. Bundles of bills, some scattered coin. Unimpressive. Jayne and Zoe are behind the captain, peering in.
zoe		At last. We can retire and give up this life of crime. Mal reaches in, pulls a lever and the floor opens, a six foot hole appearing, stairs leading to a corridor, all gleaming metal and blue light. Zoe smiles. Jayne peers down as Mal addresses the Trade Agent.
mal		Is there a fed down there? Be truthful.
mal		War's long done. We're all just folk now.  Listen up! We are coming down to empty that vault! The voice of a young Alliance GUARD comes up from below.
son		Repeater.
woman		Did sound summat like gunblast... Maybe you aught run tell Lawman... She turns and right by her, in the shadows, is a man. Mostly. He is hideously disfigured, a combination of self- mutilation and the bubbling red of radiation poisoning. His clothes are rags, his eyes pinpoints of glazed madness. A blade blurs through frame...
jayne		What the hell is up? You all right? What's goin' on? He holds her, as she whispers, wide-eyed...
river		Reavers.
mal		Leg's good, it'll bleed plenty and we avoid any necessary organs...
guard		I was thinking more of a graze..
mal		Well you don't want it to look like you just gave up...
mal		 Every heist, he's gotta start yelling my name --
jayne		 Mal! Reavers! The girl's pitchin' a fit. They're here or they're comin' soon. He is already loading up with bags as Mal thinks quickly.
mal		 Get on the mule. (to the guard, pointing to the
guard		Whah -ah- yes...
mal		You get everyone upstairs in there and you seal it. Long as you got air you don't open up, you understand?
guard		I -- Buh I -- Mal is in his face, dark and huge:
mal		Zoe take the wheel --
jayne		You see 'em? Anybody see 'em? 1J -- and jump on themselves, Mal scanning the area as he hands River up to Jayne's care. As the craft powers up, slowly moving, the young man Zoe kept from trying to pull his weapon bursts out of the station, grabbing the back of the mule.
young man		Take me with you!
mal		Get in the vault with the others --
young man		I can't stay here! Please!
mal		It's too many. Drive, Zoe. A Reaver craft ROARS over their heads. It's nearly the size of Serenity. Torn apart, belching smoke -- a welded conglomeration of ruined ships, painted for war. Predator, pure. It disappears over the rooftops.
mal		Drive! Zoe's face is set with unhappy determination as she floors it, shooting out and leaving the young man in the dust. As they move from him, four Reavers jump out of the shadows and grab the young man. Mal unhesitatingly draws his gun. He nudges a lever with his thumb and a cartridge pops back. Mal fires twice. The young man takes both bullets in the chest, slumps down dead.
jayne		How come they ain't blowing us out of the air?
mal		They wanna run us down. The up- close kill. River is squashed down on her back, being very small.
river		They want us alive when they eat us.
jayne		Boy, sure would be nice if we had some grenades, don'tchya think? Mal says nothing, keeps firing.
zoe		Wash, baby can you hear me?
wash		We're moments from air. You got somebody behind you? We intercut Wash and Zoe at this point:
zoe		Reavers.
zoe		We're not gonna reach you in time.
wash		Just keep moving, honey. We're coming to you.
mal		Grab on! Jayne grabs the Mule, legs dangling, pulled out between the two vessels as Mal slams a new cartridge into his pistol.
jayne		I won't get et! You shoot me if they take me! Mal steadies himself and takes aim, seemingly at Jayne --
wash		 Get some distance on 'em. You come to the flats, I want you to swing round. Gonna try a Barn Swallow.
wash		J Simon! Open the loading dock!
zoe		Talkin' ain't doin'. She throws the wheel and the mule comes hard about, fishtailing slightly as it faces the oncoming skiff.
simon		River?
river		I swallowed a bug. Kaylee runs in to see how everyone is. She goes to Simon.
kaylee		Are you okay?
mal		Is he okay? A bloodied Reaver POPS into frame from under the skiff-top. He lunges for Mal, baring sharpened teeth -- Mal spins and draws, fires into his belly as Jayne and Zoe both fire at the same time. The freak takes too long to go down, but down he goes. Dies sitting against the s i op. 4 Everybody takes a moment to look at each other.
wash		Nice flying, baby, and that's a negative. Clean getaway -- Out of atmo in six minutes.  INT. CARGO BAY - CONTINUING
mal		Set course for Beaumonde.  First thing, I want these bod -- Simon suddenly punches him in the face, causing Mal to stumble back, and Simon to shake his hand in pain.
simon		You stupid, selfish, son of a whore ---
mal		I'm a hair's breadth from riddling you with holes, Doctor --
simon		"One simple job! She'll be fine!"
mal		She IS fine! Except for bein' still crazy, she's the picture of health!
zoe		Wasn't for River, we'd probably be left there. She felt 'em coming.
simon		Never again. You understand me?
mal		Seems I remember a talk about you giving orders on my boat.
simon		Well sleep easy 'cause we're off your boat. Just as soon as River gets her share of the "bounty".
kaylee		Well let's not do anything hasty...
mal		No, shiny! I'm sick a' carrying tourists anyhow. We'll be on Beaumonde in ten hours time, you can pick up your earnings and be on your merry. Meantime you do your job. Patch up my crew. A beat.
river		He didn't lie down. They never lie down. She is looking at the Reaver. Everyone does, for a moment.
zoe		No, I think things'll glide a deal smoother for us without River and Simon on board... but how long do you think they'll last?
mal		Doc made his call. They's as babes in a basket when we took 'em in; we sheltered 'em plenty. Man has to cut loose, learn to stand on his own.
zoe		Like that man back in town? They stop by Mal Is room.
mal		I had to shoot him. What the Reavers woulda done to him before they killed him...
zoe		I know. That was a piece a' mercy. But before that, him begging us to bring him along... vo,
mal		We couldn't take the weight. Woulda slowed us down.
zoe		You know that for certain
mal		Mule won't run with five. I shoulda dumped the girl? Or you? Or Jayne?
zoe		Coulda tossed the payload.
mal		And go to Fanty and Mingo with air in our mitts, tell 'em "here's your share"? They'd set the dogs on us in the space of a twitch, and there we are back in mortal peril. We get a job, we gotta vo make good. Washenters from the bridge.
zoe		Sir, I don't disagree on any particular point, it's just... in the time of war, we woulda never left a man stranded.
mal		Maybe that's why we lost. She's not happy with the reply. Mal climbs down to his room as Wash reaches Zoe, slides his arms around her.
inara		Kaylee, are you ever gonna put that capture down?
inara		4 You promised to help me pack.
jayne		Ain't logical. Cuttin' on his own face, rapin' and murdering -- I mean, I'll kill a man in a fair fight... or if I think he's gonna start a fair fight, or if he bothers me, or if there's a woman, or I'm gettin' paid -- mostly only when I'm gettin' paid. But these Reavers... last ten years they just show up like the boageyman from stories. Eating people alive? Where does that get fun? He dumps the body in, she starts the doors closing.
kaylee		Shepherd Book said they was men that reached the edge of space., saw a vasty nothingness and just went bibbledy over it.
jayne		Hell, I been to the edge. Just looked like more space.
kaylee		I don't know. People get awful lonely in the black. Like to get addlepated ourselves, we stay on this boat much longer. Captain'll drive us all off, one by one.
jayne		You're just in a whinge cuz that prissy doc is finally disembarking. Me I says good riddance. He never belonged here, and his sister's no saner than one of them Reavers.
kaylee		That ain't even so! River's a dear heart and a boon to this crew! You just don't like her 'cause she can read your mind and everything you think is mean.
jayne		Well, there is that.
kaylee		Her and Simon could have a place here. Now they're leaving us. Just like Shepherd Book. She looks up toward one of the shuttles.
sheydra		The girls. They've learned more from you these last months than the rest of us could show them in two years.
inara		They're very sweet. But they're not Companions.
inara		On Sihnon we started training at twelve. Years of discipline and preparation before the physical act of pleasure was even mentioned. Most of these girls --
sheydra		They're all of good family, the highest academic standards --
inara		Control. Was the first lesson. And the last and these worlds are not like the Central Planets. There is barbarism dressed up in the most civil weeds. Men of the highest rank who don't know the difference between a Companion and a common whore. It's unsafe.
sheydra		All the more reason the girls look to you. You came out here alone, before the Alliance ever thought to establish a House this remote. You've seen so much. You're a figure of great romance to them. 4d INARA Great romance has nothing to do with being a Companion, Sheydra. You should know better.
sheydra		I'm not the one who had a torrid affair with a pirate. Inara nearly spills her drink.
inara		A who? With a what?
inara		I didn't... have a pirate...
sheydra		In one of the stories you make love in a burning temple. I think that's my favorite.
sheydra		A year on his shuttle and he never laid a finger on you. No wonder you left.
sheydra		104 I do love to watch you boil. Don't worry. The stories will fade. And your Captain Reynolds has probably gotten himself blown up by this time.
inara		 Yes. That would be just like him.
kaylee		Don't talk to the barkers -- only the captains.
kaylee		You shouldn't aughta be so clean. It's a dead giveaway you don't belong, you always gotta be tidy. Don't pay anybody in advance. And don't ride in anything with a Capissen 38 engine, they fall right out of the sky.
simon		Kaylee. She turns and heads off. Simon starts in the other direction, but River looks after her and the others.
simon		No, I fear it's not safe anymore. He's heading off and doesn't hear:
river		For them.
mal		It's not my fault the Doc's got no stomach for Rim living --
kaylee		It is entirely and for all your fault! If you'd given Simon a moment, just a moment where he didn't think you were gonna throw them off or turn them in, he might've --
mal		What? Swept you into his cleanly arms? Made tidy love to you? They have reached the guncheck, where Jayne and Wash have already checked their guns. It works like a lunch automat: Mal sticks his gun in a drawer, pulls out a chit -- the q0 drawer closes and rotates, revealing another empty one. A large bouncer with a shockrod watches impassively.
kaylee		(as they continue
zoe		Captain didn't make 'em fugitives.
kaylee		But he coulda made 'em family! Steada driving them off. Steada keeping Simon from seein' I was there, when I carried such a torch and we coulda -- goin' on a year now I ain't had nothin' twixt my nethers weren't run on batteries!
mal		Oh god! I can't know that!
jayne		40 I could stand to hear a little more...
kaylee		If you had a care for anybody's heart you woulda --
kaylee		Tell that to Inara. For a moment, Mal is too shocked to react. Kaylee storms out.
mingo		4 Domestic troubles? MINGO is young, tough -- somewhere between a gangster and a fur-trader. Sounds lower-class British, or something like it.
fanty		Domestic troubles? FANTY moves out from behind Mingo to reveal that he is Mingo's identical twin. Apart from slight differences in dress, they are indistinguishable.
mingo		'Cause we don't wanna interrupt.
fanty		A man should keep his house in order.
mal		 Mingo. Fanty.
mingo		(pointing at his
mal		He's Fanty. You're Mingo.
mingo		Ghahh! How is it you always know?
mal		Fanty's prettier.  Feel to do some business?
mingo		 Bit crowded, isn't it? As you see, we come unencumbered by thugs.
mal		Which means at least four of the guys already in here are yours. All's one. I'll just keep Jayne with me.
zoe		Sir, are you sure you don't --
mal		Go. Go get yourselves a nice romantic meal.
wash		Those are my two favorite words!  Honey... "Meal..."
mal		 It's business. We're fine. They leave and the four remaining men sit. Fanty tosses a few coins to a saloon-girl, who does a little fan-dance... ANGLE: THE CORVUE CAMERA'S POV of the men is conveniently blocked by her little dance. Mal's foot nudges a duffel bag of money to Mingo's foot.
mingo		Quite a crew you've got.
mal		Yeah, they're a fine bunch of ruebens.
mingo		How you keep them on that crap boat is the subject of much musing tween me and Fanty.
fanty		We go on and on.
mal		So I'm noticing. Is there a problem I don't know of? You got 25% of a sweet take kissing your foot, how come we're not dispersing?
fanty		Our end is forty, precious.
jayne		My muscular buttocks it's forty --
mingo		It is as of now. Find anyone around going cheaper.
j fanty		Find anyone around going near a sorry lot like you in the first instance. ANGLE: RIVER has entered, is looking about. Jayne sees her, nudges Mal, who looks and turns back to business. We stay on her as she wanders around the perimeter of the bar, vaguely listening in on Mal's deal.
mal		Well here's a foul thought. I conjured you two were incompetent; sent us out not knowing there were V0 Reavers about. Now I'm thinking you picked us out because you did.
mingo		That were a sign of faith, boy. And it doesn't affect our forty per. Danger is, after all, your business.
jayne		Reavers ain't business, double dickless. This is all background noise to River, who has moved to the CV screen, on which is a commercial. It's animated, goofy, cartoon animals and anime-style Asian girls all transforming to insane fantasy figures as they sing about:
river		Miranda. She turns and looks back at the crowd. What happens next happens very fast. She strides silently to the first table -- two men drinking quietly -- and she slams her foot into one's face, then whips it back into the other's, knocking them both unconscious as -- people are turning, just registering that this girl -- kicks the table into a card player even as she sweeps a bottle off it behind her -- the bottle hits a man behind her square in the face, a man she never even looked at -- people are rising, fleeing or pushing forward --
mal		River...
jayne		V0 Whuhuh? She's taking out a group of four, high kicks and perfect precision -- Two men come from either side, one whipping out a knife -- she does a perfect split, grabs his wrist above her head, using his momentum to stab the other one -- Mal fights to get back to the gunrack. The bouncer reaches her and she wrests his shockrod from him, uses it on him, on Fanty and Mingo -- the fan-dancer is bolting and River hurls the rod at her head, knocks her cold... She's everywhere. On tables, chairs, under your legs, using the room itself to take out every single person there. One man hides behind a wall -- impossibly, she swings her leg around the corner and nails his face. Jayne grabs her from behind --
simon		Eta Kooram Nah Smech! And River drops to the ground, fast asleep. There is a beat. Mal looks around the bar. He and Simon, who has run up to the entrance, are the only ones standing. He looks down at River. She lies unconscious, helpless.
mal		I think maybe we ought to leave.
ensign		We got a pos on a retinal -- man carrying her out is Malcolm Reynolds, captains a Firefly-class transport ship, "Serenity". Bound by law five times, smuggling, tariff dodge... not convicted. Nothing here that would --
the operative		The ship. The name of the ship.
ensign		Sir?
the operative		Serenity Valley. Bloodiest battle of the entire war. The Independents held the valley for seven weeks, two of them after their high command had surrendered. 68% casualty rate.
ensign		Of course, Sir, I just didn't --
the operative		There.
ensign		First Mate Zoe Washburn, formerly Corporal Zoe Alleyne, also in the 57th. Career army, looks like.
the operative		She's followed him far... Give me the crew, registered passengers -- Our Captain is a passionate man, no room there for subtlety. He's bound to have some very obvious... CLOSE ON: THE LENS of his glasses. On it is a slowly moving picture of INARA.
the operative		-40  .weakness...
simon		May I see her?
mal		She's still napping just now. And I believe you've got some storytelling to do.
kaylee		Haven? We're gonna see Shepherd Book?
wash		Start with the part where Jayne gets knocked out by a ninety pound girl. 'Cause I don't think that's ever getting old.
zoe		Do we know if anyone was killed?
mal		It's likely. I know she meant to Ad kill me 'fore the Doc put her to sleep, which how exactly does that work anyhow?
simon		Safeword.
kaylee		Not sure I get it.
simon		A phrase that's encoded in her brain, that makes her fall asleep. If I speak the words, "Eta --
jayne		 Well don't say it! moo ZOE It only works on her, Jayne.
jayne		Oh. Well, now I know that.
mal		"In case something happened."
simon		What?
mal		You feel to elaborate on what that something might be? I mean they taught you that fancy safeword, they must've figured she was gonna, what -- start uncontrollably crocheting?
simon		They never said what --
mal		And you never did ask. Mal grabs him and throws him against the wall, in his face.
simon		I brought her out here so they couldn't get to her, I don't even know how they --
mal		My ship. My crewi You had a gorramn timebomb living with us!
mal		What if she went off in the middle woo of dinner, or in bunk with Kaylee, did that give you a moment's pause? Simon looks at Kaylee, the truth of Mal's words hitting him.
simon		I thought she was getting better.
jayne		And I thought they was gettin' off!  Didn't we have a intricate plan how they was gonna be not here anymore?
kaylee		We couldn't leave them now...
jayne		No, now that she's a... killer woman we ought be bringin' 'em tea and dumplings!  In earnest, Mal: why'd you bring her back on?
simon		May I see her. Mal steps aside. Simon enters the locker.
jayne		She goes woolly again, we're gonna have to put a bullet to her.
mal		It's crossed my mind.
wash		Can I make a suggestion that doesn't involve violence, or is this the wrong crowd?
zoe		Honey...
wash		V0 Fanty and Mingo might be coming hard down on us, or the laws... or maybe nobody could be bunged about a little social brawl. We need to get our bearings. I think we need to talk to Mr. Universe.
a0		As he watches the security feed of River's fight his image becomes a vidscreen. He's addressing Wash, Mal and Zoe. We intercut between the two spaces:
mr universe		Oh, this is good. This is...
wash		That's what we're looking to learn. Is there any follow up, a newswave...
mr universe		There is no "news", there's the truth of the signal, what I see, and there's the puppet theatre the V0 Parliament's jesters foist on the somnambulant public. Monkey taught to say the word "monkey" -- lead story on 32 planets. But the slum riots on Hera, not a --
mal		What about this? Did this make the... puppet theatre?
mr universe		No sir. And no lawforce flags, either -- I hadda go into the security feed direct...
mal		You can do that?
mr universe		Can't stop the signal, Mal. Everything goes somewhere and I go everywhere. Security feeds are a traipse to access -- and I wasn't the first one in, this has prints on it -- oh! Look at her go! A0 Everyone is getting bruises and contusions. Contoooosions.
zoe		 So somebody else has been fed this. That doesn't like me too well.
mr universe		Zoe, you sultry minx, stop falling in love with me. You're just gonna embarrass yourself. I have a commitment to my Lovebot, it was a very beautiful ceremony, Lenore wrote her own vows, I cried like a baby, a hungry, angry baby.  And she falls asleep. Which, she would be sleepy.
mal		Can you go back? See if anybody spoke with her 'fore she acted up, -40 made any kind of contact with her... Mr Universe works the screen. The image rewinds and stops on River coming up to it, looking at it. She whispers the word, "Miranda", and starts to move away.
mr universe		No.. He pulls another screen close, starts working that one. Matching timecodes, he pulls up the commercial.
mal		Um... please? Mr Universe has a third screen showing the commercial as
mr universe		Friends and potential lovers, I
wash		The oaty bar?
mal		Subliminal. It's a subliminal message broadwaved to trigger her.
river		They're afraid of me.
simon		I'm sorry...
river		They should be. What I will show them... Oh God... She starts tearing up, breathing faster... Simon runs his hands through her hair.
simon		It's okay, it's okay...
river		 Show me off like a dog, old men covered in blood, it never touched them but they're drowning in it... so much loss... I don't know what I'm saying. I never know what I'm saying...
simon		You said something. When you were triggered, do you remember? The Captain saw you say something on the feed...
river		Miranda.
simon		Miranda.
river		 Ask her. She'll show you all.
simon		Show us what? Who is Miranda?
river		I'm not a multiple, dumbo.
simon		No. Right. But I think somehow when they triggered you it brought this up, this memory --
river		It isn't mine. The memory. I didn't bring it and I shouldn't have to carry it, it isn't mine.
simon		I won't.
river		Put a bullet to me. Bullet in the brain pan, squish.
simon		Don't say that. Not ever. We'll get through this. She reaches out and touches his face, affectionately.
river		Things are going to get much much worse.
simon		Well, the Captain hasn't tossed us in the airlock, so I'd say we're --
river		He has to see. More than anyone... he has to see what he doesn't want to.
simon		River. What will Miranda show us. She thinks.
river		Death.
simon		Whose death? And she starts laughing. Quietly at first, then louder, then almost uncontrollably, screaming in his face:
book		Forgive what you can, and send me on my path. I will walk on, until you bid me rest.
mal		Hope that ain't for me, Shepherd.
book		 It's prayer for the dead.
mal		Then I really hope it ain't for me.
book		It's for the men River might have killed in that bar.
mal		Weren't River that did it, you know that. Somebody decided her brain was just another piece of property to take, fenced it right Vd up.
book		You got a plan?
mal		Hiding ain't a plan?
book		It'll do you for a spell, and the folks here'll be glad of the extra coin...
mal		.but they'll be coming. Alliance is after this girl with a powerful will. I look to hear the tromp of their boots any moment.
book		You won't.  This isn't a palms-up military MW run, Mal. No reports broadwaved, no warrants... much as they want her, they want her hid. That means Closed File. Means an Operative, which is trouble you've not known.
mal		I coulda left her there.
book		Not your way, Mal.
book		You can play the thug all you want, but there's more to you than you're ever like to 'fess.
mal		You just think that 'cause my eyes is all sorrowful and pretty.
book		Only one thing is gonna walk you through this, Mal. Belief.
mal		Sermons make me sleepy, Shepherd. I ain't looking for help from on high. That's a long wait for a train don't come.
book		When I talk about belief, why do you always assume I'm talking about God? W  They'll come at you sideways. As he continues, we see:
book		Sorta man they're like to send believes hard. Kills and never asks why.
mal		It's of interest to me how much you seem to know about that world.
book		I wasn't born a Shepherd, Mal.
mal		Have to tell me about that some time.
book		 No I don't. He walks away, offering this:
teacher		River? Eight-year-old River is working away, not paying attention.
river		No... Vao TEACHER River. Do as you're told. It's going to be fine. Lie down.
mal		Whuh huh nuhwhat?
mal		Inara. REVERSE ON: Inara on Mal's screen. We see her from about chest level up. She, presumably, sees the same.
mal		Good as any.
inara		Please tell me you're wearing pants.
mal		 Naked as the day I come cryin'. How's your world?
inara		Cold. It's autumn here.
mal		Still at the Training House?
inara		Right where you left me.
mal		I remember it as nice enough. picturesque.
inara		It is that. What about you?
ons		Still flying. So what occasi the wave? Not that to see you ain't... well you look very
inara		Oh. Thank you, I... I guess we have something of a problem here. With the locals, I thought maybe...
mal		You could use a gun hand?
inara		I'm hoping not. But if you were close at all, you -- the crew -- could take your ease here a while... and there'd be payment...
mal		Payment is never not a factor. I could sound out the crew... This pot like to boil over soon?
inara		Soon. Not right away.
mal		Well, it would be, I mean I would like to... Kaylee's been missing you something fierce --
kaylee		Oh they're so pathetic!
inara		I miss her too. I even miss my shuttle, occasionally.
mal		Yeah, you left a... got some of your stuff in a trunk, never did get a chance to drop it off.
inara		Oh.
mal		I didn't look through the... stuff... just sundries I expect.
inara		Thank you. She disappears. Mal thinks a moment.
wash		Inara. Nice to see her again.
zoe		So, trap?
mal		Trap.
zoe		We goin' in? moo MAL It ain't but a few hours out...
wash		Yeah, but, remember the part where it's a trap?
mal		If that's the case, then Inara's already caught in it. She wouldn't set us up willing. Might be we got a shot at seeing who's turning these wheels. We go in.
kaylee		How can you be sure Inara don't just wanna see you? Sometimes people have feelings -- I'm referring here to people...
mal		Y'all were watching, I take it. Guilty glances.
kaylee		Yes.
mal		140 You see us fight?
kaylee		No.
mal		Trap.
wash		We're about seventy miles from the Training house. And nobody on radar... if the Alliance is about, they're laying low.
mal		They're about. Find us a home. I'll take the shuttle in closer. Zoe, ship is yours. 4dO He starts out, turns back to Zoe.
zoe		What? And risk my ship?
mal		Dear Buddha, please send me a pony, and a plastic rocket, and --
mal		You invited me.
inara		I never thought for a second you'd be stupid enough to come!
mal		Well that makes you kind of a tease, doesn't it?
inara		You knew my invitation wasn't on the level --
mal		Which led me to the conclusion that you must be in some trouble.
inara		I'm fine! I'm. giddy.
mal		For a woman schooled in telling men what they wanna hear, you ain't much of a liar.
inara		Mal, you cannot handle this man.
the operative		I've no doubt. Mal sheds his shawl and robe. Inara kneels at the alter, picks out another incense stick.
mal		What are you doing?
inara		I'm praying for you, Mal.
the operative		That's very thoughtful. But I mean it when I say you're not in any danger.
mal		Speak your piece.
the operative		I think you're beginning to understand how dangerous River Tam is.
mal		She is a mite unpredictable. Mood swings, of a sort.
the operative		It's worse than you know.
mal		It usually is.
the operative		That girl will rain destruction down on you and your ship. She's an albatross, Captain.
mal		Way I remember it, albatross was a ship's good luck... til some idiot killed it.  Yes, I've read a poem. Try not to faint. The Operative moves further into the room. Whenever he moves, Mal counters.
the operative		I've seen your war record. I know how you must feel about the Alliance.
mal		You really don't.
the operative		Fair to say. But I have to hope you understand you can't beat us.
mal		I got no need to beat you. I just wanna go my way.
the operative		And you can do that, once you let me take the girl back home. Give me the opportunity to help you.
mal		All I gotta do is let you take one more thing away from me. I've had a lot of things taken in my time. And it may just be that this is one too many.
the operative		This psychotic, potentially murderous girl who can't have the slightest awareness of your protection. This is where you "draw the line".
mal		Well I'm a whimsical soul.
the operative		There's a number of lives that hang in the balance here. Lives under your care. Are they as whimsical as yourself?
mal		I got no notion that I'm being heroical at all. Any more than I think you're really just a harmless bureaucrat come to help me out. You move like a killer. The Operative is stopped by this. Unhappily, he continues:
the operative		I have a warship in deep orbit, Captain. We locked on to Serenity's pulse beacon the moment you hit atmo. I can speak a word and send a missile to that exact location inside of three minutes. Mal pulls a small device, clipped wires sticking out all around it, and tosses it to the Operative.
mal		You do that, best make peace with your dear and fluffy lord.
the operative		Pulse beacon.
mal		Advice from an old tracker: you J wanna find someone, use your eyes.
the operative		How long do you think you can really run from us?
mal		Oh, a jack-rabbit, me. 'Sides, I never credited the Alliance with an over-abundance of brains. And if you're the best they got...
the operative		Captain Reynolds, I should tell you so that you don't waste your time: You can't make me angry.
inara		Oh please. Spend an hour with him. Mal smiles -- then glares at Inara, mouthing "Hey!"
the operative		I need her, Captain. River is... my purpose and I will gather her to me. The brother as well. Whatever else happens is incidental. In the greater scheme.
mal		Why is it that the greater scheme always makes everything not that great?
the operative		I want to resolve this like civilized men. I'm not threatening you. I'm unarmed.
mal		Great! He draws and shoots the Operative in the chest. The Operative goes down as Mal grabs Inara, moves for the-doorway. The Operative is on him in a second, choke-hold from behind.
the operative		I am of course wearing full body armor. I'm not a moron. He tosses Mal hard against a wall, spinning and blocking a blow from Inara -- she is clearly trained in martial arts, but he flat-heels her to the ground within seconds. Mal is going for his gun again, turning, and the Operative kicks him in the face, sends him back, gun flying. Mal gets to his feet and they square off. Mal breathing hard, nose dripping blood. The Operative perfectly poised, waiting.
mal		No back up? We're making an awful ruckus...
the operative		They'll come when they're needed.
mal		I'd start whistling.
the operative		Captain, what do you think is going to happen here? They come at each other. The Operative is the much better trained -- he's fluid, his blows sparse and deadly.
inara		I know.
the operative		He's not the plucky hero. The Alliance isn't some evil empire. This isn't the grand arena.
inara		And that's not incense. He turns to look: the incense stick burns away -- rather like a fuse -- and FLASHES in an explosion of light and sound.
the operative		Just a flash bomb. Go! Go!
mal		.I had him...
inara		What?
mal		 I think that I was winning!
alliance soldier		Grenade! Everybody dives for cover. The moment they do, Mal and Inara race into the shuttle, Mal sweeping up the grenade just as the last light goes out and nothing happens. One soldier turns to look and Mal shoots him back down as the door shuts on him and Inara.
inara		Hang on to something.
mal		4 You sure you remember how it -- He nearly falls over as:
inara		I told you to hang on.
the operative		 Forget the pulse beacon, there has to be another way to track the ship -- get a read on the nav sat. It's a registered transport, you must be able to locate --
the operative		Have you found a nav sat trajectory?
the operative		 Does he think this is a game?
jayne		Why, 'cause this guy beat up Mal? That ain't so hard --
mal		He didn't beat me up --
inara		Because he's a believer.
inara		I honestly think the only reason we haven't been blown out of the air is that he needs to see her.
simon		Needs to see her why?
inara		I'm uncertain. I would say to be sure of the kill, but... I just know he'll kill us all to get to her.
jayne		So no hope of a reward, huh?
zoe		Did he mention a deal of any kind?
mal		 Give the two of them up. Go my way.
jayne		Which you was all ready to do not a day ago. What went sour?
mal		Cutting them loose ain't the same as handing them over.
jayne		That so? 'Cause the corpse I'm about to become is having trouble telling the difference.
simon		 Did he say anything about a "Miranda"?
inara		What is that?
mal		Don't know who or what, but it's on River's mind. Conjure it might be the reason he's after her.
inara		You think maybe it poses some kind of threat to the Alliance?
wash		Do we care? Are we caring about that?
jayne		You dumbass hogs, the only people she's a threat to is us on this boat!
mal		Look, we get back to Haven in a 'r/ few hours time --
jayne		Hiding under the Shepherd's skirts, that's a manful scheme --
mal		You wanna run this ship?
jayne		Yes!
mal		 Well you can't!
jayne		Do a damn sight better job'n you. Getting us lashed over a couple of strays...  and she ain't your crew. Oh, and neither is she exactly helpless! So where's it writ we gotta lay down our lives for her, which is what you've steered us toward.
mal		I didn't start this.
jayne		No, the Alliance starts the war -- and then you volunteer. Battle of Serenity, Mal: besides Zoe here, how many --  -- I'm talkin' at you -- how many men in your platoon came out of there alive? Mal stares at him.
zoe		 You wanna leave this room.
jayne		You're damn right I do. He stalks upstairs. There's a quiet moment.
inara		This isn't the war, Mal. Mal turns, eyeing her.
mal		Are you telling me that because you think I don't know --
inara		You came to the training house looking for a fight.
mal		I came looking for you.
inara		I just want to know who I'm dealing with. I've seen too many versions of you to be sure.
mal		I start fighting a war I guarantee you'll see something new.
to		Mal walks out into the cargo bay, Inara following, over:
simon		We'll get off. River and I'll get off at Haven and find some --
kaylee		Nobody's saying that.
wash		Nobody besides Jayne is saying that.
inara		Mal.
inara		I'm not trying to tear you down --
mal		But you fog things up. You always have -- you spin me about. I wish like hell you was elsewhere.
inara		I was.
mal		The other way! Find her and-do not engage! Everyone piles out the other way. Simon remains, to look in the window.
simon		It's gonna be oka -- She elbows his throat viciously. He drops to his knees, shocked and gasping, as she spin-kicks him to the ground. He doesn't move. She looks at him a moment, then takes off.
zoe		She's sealed off the bridge. I do not like her there.
kaylee		Cap'n! She tosses him a bolt remover. He starts pulling a bolt out of a panel on the wall, tells Zoe:
mal		Check the shuttles. She coulda 40 snuck in. He pops the panel off and starts wriggling in among the wires.
mal		The government's man, he says you're a danger to us. Not worth helping. Is he right? Are you anything but a weapon? I've staked my crew's life on the a - person-,-- - actual and whole, and if I'm wrong you'd best shoot me now.  Or we could talk more...
river		 Miranda. WIt's a planet. Matches the one from her dream.
kaylee		How can it be there's a whole planet called Miranda and none of us knowed that?
mal		Because there isn't one. It's a blackrock. Uninhabitable. Terraforming didn't hold, or somesuch. Few settlers died.
river		 I had to show them. I didn't know if you were going to make me sleep.
simon		 You could've asked...
kaylee		 Wait a tick, yeah! Some ten years back, before the war. There was call for workers to settle on Miranda, my daddy talked about going. I should've recalled...
wash		But there's nothing about it on the Cortex -- History, Astronomy... it's not in there.
mal		Half of writing history is hiding the truth. There's something on this rock the Alliance doesn't want known.
inara		That's right at the edge of the Burnham Quadrant, right?
wash		Whoah, no, no --
zoe		 That's a bad notion --
wash		Honey...
zoe		I got it, baby.
wash		Show them the bad... She hits some commands on the screen, pulls back to reveal a couple of other planets near Miranda.
zoe		This is us, see? And here's Miranda. All along here, this dead space in between, that's Reaver territory.
wash		They just float out there, sending out raiding parties --
zoe		Maybe a hundred ships. And more every year. You go through that you're signing up to be a banquet.
wash		I'm on board with the run and hide scenario -- and we are just about... He looks at his monitors, looks ahead...
kaylee		Shepherd? Shepherd Book! She stops, looking at the ground by the steeple. There is the body on the ground, face down. The child she played with at dinner. Kaylee stares, at first uncomprehending. ANGLE: MAL, moving in the other direction, approaches the cannon, Jayne behind him. He stops and sees: Book, lying by the cannon, torn up badly from the waist down.
book		Won't go far...
mal		Shouldn't've been you. I'm so sorry, it was... they should've hit us. They should've hit me.
book		That crossed my mind.
mal		I seen.
book		I killed the ship... that killed us. Not... very Christian of me.
mal		You did what's right.
book		 Coming from you, that means... almost nothing... HNAAH! Ah, I'm long gone...
mal		Doc'll bring you round. I look to be bored by many more sermons 'fore you slip -- don't move --
book		Can't... order me around, boy. I'm not one of your crew.
mal		Yes you are. Book coughs up blood, grabbing Mal. Urgent, almost angry.
book		You... it's on you now... all this death, this shit... you have to find a course. This can't mean nothing. River... you have to...
mal		Come on, keep it up -- Book grabs Mal's face, talks as though replying to something:
book		I don't care what you believe! Just... believe it. Whatever you have to... His breathing becomes laboured. Hitched. Stopped. His hand slips away, his blood leaving a distinct print on Mal's face. Jayne and Simon run up,Simon slowing down -- going to the e he's-dead.----Zne -a r.7-1, ;,,,r them as Jayne looks around him, Mal still fixed on Book.
jayne		How come they ain't waiting? They know'd we was coming, how come they only sent one?
mo		Zoe realizes the answer, turns to Wash.
zoe		Get on the Cortex. Wave the Sanchez brothers, Li Shen -- anyone whose ever sheltered us after a heist. Tell them to get out. Get out now.
the operative		V0 I'm sorry. But I cannot let you hide and I cannot let you run. Things become... extreme. And we wish for another way.
mal		Don't talk at me like a righteous man. You are a killer of children.
the operative		When God wanted Pharaoh to release His people from bondage -- you know the story? He didn't ask. He sent his plagues down upon Egypt. That's me, Captain. The path to peace is paved with corpses. It's always been so.
mal		So me and mine got to lie down and
the operative		I'm not going to live there. How could you think -- there's no place for me there, any more than 40 there is for you. Malcolm, I'm a monster. What I do is evil, I've no illusions about it. But it must be done.
mal		Why? Do you know why?
the operative		It's not my place to ask.
mal		You will never see River Tam. I'm telling you this.
the operative		Maybe not. But you'll keep her close now, and when I blow Serenity out of the air, this will be ended. You're so terribly out of your depth, Captain. Your old boat can't take the pressure.
mal		She ain't buckled yet. And the 40 only reason you're talking such a lot is you can't get a fix on us.
the operative		Yes, your scrambler's code is too old for our seekers. You love that, yes? The small triumph over modernity. You really are the noble savage.
mal		Nobody -- ever -- calls me noble.
the operative		But that's what's going to kill you, Malcolm. Nobility. It confuses your text, which is self-interest. And sin.
mal		Only- many-I-know-who still --bel i-eved- in sin just died by your hand.
the operative		What do you believe in?
mal		Not a solitary thing.
the operative		If that were true, you'd be nothing more than a Reaver. Something changes in Mal's expression.
mal		Get these bodies together.
zoe		We got time for gravedigging?
mal		Zoe, you and Simon are gonna rope V0 'em together. Five or six of 'em. I want them laid out on the nose of our ship.
simon		Are you insane?
kaylee		What do you mean, the bodies...
mal		Kaylee, I need you to muck the reactor core, just enough to leave a trail and make it read like we're flying without containment, not enough to fry us.
kaylee		These people are our friends --
mal		Kaylee, you got a day's work to do and two hours to do it.
moo		Piece or two of the other ship, stick it on. Any place you can tear hull without inner breach, do that too.  And we're gonna need paint. We're gonna need red paint.
zoe		Sir. Do you really mean to turn our home into an abomination so we can make a suicidal attempt at passing through Reaver space?
mal		I mean to live. I mean for us to live. The Alliance won't have that, so we go where they won't follow.
jayne		V0 God's balls, there's no way we're going out there! And everybody  is talking at once:
simon		What's the point of living if you sink to the level of a savage --
inara		Please, we should talk this over --
jayne		I ain't takin' orders from a man has lost his brainstem -- , -Mal pule-s-his- in his face, steps back, hand on his.
mal		This is how it works. Anybody doesn't wanna fly with me anymore, this is your port of harbour. There's a lot of fine ways to die. I'm not waiting for the Alliance to choose mine. He walks through the group, toward the smashed cockpit of the Alliance fighter. Struggling to get out is the badly wounded pilot. He sees Mal coming and raises his hands in surrender. Mal shoots him in the head, turns back.
inara		Mal. He looks up: she's in the corner looking through that trunk of hers, hands on a long oilcloth wrapped around something.
mal		Didn't see you.
i nara		I figured that.
mal		Anything of use in there?
inara		Maybe. She puts it down and crosses to the bed. He sits by her.
mal		You don't have to stay in the shuttle, you know. There's empty rooms, if you wanna sleep awhile.
inara		You think anyone's set to sleep? Simon's portioning out overdoses of morphine, just in case.
mal		Cheerful fellow.  Did you really miss this place?
inara		 Sometimes... Not so much right now. A beat. He doesn't look at her when he asks:
mal		Why did you leave? Site does lo9}E-at-- t -m-
inara		Why didn't you ask me not to?
mal		I, uh, I'd better go check on the VW crew. See how the inevitable mutiny is coming along. They both want to say more. They don't. He goes.
the operative		Define "disappeared". The Ensign just looks uncomfortable.
zoe		Every reading I'm getting says normal. Oceans, land masses... no tectonic instability or radiation.
wash		Yeah, but no power, either.
mal		Nothing at all?
wash		Wait. Something. Might be a beacon, but it's awful weak.
mal		Find it.
zoe		02 levels check, pressure... if there's anything wrong the scanner isn't reading it. Mal pulls off his helmet. Breathes, looking around him.
mal		Well something sure as hell ain't right... WIDER ANGLE: They're in a CITY. Gleaming metal, spread out for miles in every direction. Portions decimated by fires long since cold, others overgrown with weeds, but mostly intact. But silent, as if trapped in amber.
jayne		--ai-n-lt the settlement-
zoe		We flew over at least a dozen cities just as big. Why didn't we hear about this?
mal		Beacon's up ahead.
zoe		Ho. She moves rapidly, gun out, to:
mal		Poison?
jayne		They's all just sittin'. Didn't crash... ANGLE: RIVER is quietly becoming more and more upset. CLOSE ON: KAYLEE walks in front of an office building, staying away from the cars as she hears:
simon		 Kaylee... Come this way. Come here. Don't -- But she looks --
kaylee		GAAAAaaoh God -- -- and steps back, horrified, as the others approach. It's an office. About half the employees are there, in chairs or on the ground, all in the same state as the first fellow. We see ANGLES of the corpses as the gang evaluates...
jayne		How come they're preserved?
mal		Place must've gone hermetic when the power blew. Sealed 'em.
kaylee		 What're they doing? What's everybody doing?
simon		There's no discoloration, nobody's doubled over or showing signs of pain...
mal		There's gasses that kill painless, right?
inara		But they didn't fall down. None of them. They just lay down.
simon		More than anything, it looks like starvation.
mal		Anybody want to bet there's plenty of food around?
inara		They just lay down... They notice River now, in the middle of the street, keening. She drops to her knees, clutching her head.
river		, make them stop, they're everywhere, every city every house every room, they're all inside me, I can hear them all and they're saying nothing! GET UP! PLEASE, GET THEM UP! , please God make me a stone...
zoe		Jayne --
jayne		She's right! Everybody's dead! This whole world is dead for no reason!
wash		Let's get to the beacon.
caron		-- just a few of the images we've recorded, and you can see it isn't.. it isn't what we thought. There's been no war here, and no terraforming event. The environment is stable. It's the Pax, the G-32 Paxilon Hydroclorate that we added to the air processors. It's...  There's thirty million people here and they all just let themselves die. They didn't even kill themselves. They just... most starved. When they stopped working the power grids, there were overloads, fires -- people burned to death sitting in their V0 chairs. Just sitting. There is a loud bang somewhere behind her -- she starts, gathers herself.
caron		I won't live to report this, and we haven't got power to... people have to know...  We meant it for the best... to make people safer... to... God! She whirls, grabs a gun and fires -- then aims the gun at her own head - but a Reaver is on her, knocks the gun away and bites her face -- She screams continuously as the Reaver tops her, biting at her and tearing at her clothes, at her skin.
mal		I seen so much death... I been on fields carpeted with bodies, friends and enemies -- I seen men and women blown to messes no further from me than you.
inara		Mal...
mal		But every single one of those people died on their feet. Fighting.
inara		Mal, I need your help with this. I need you to help me, because I can't -- He looks at her, folds her into his arms. Brings her face to his, not kissing but touching, pressing into each other with the urgency of pulsing, necessary life.
simon		River...
river		I'm all right. She looks at him, wet eyes full of clarity.
v0		Wash pulls the recording cylinder out of the console.
mal		This report is maybe twelve years old. Parliament buried it, and it stayed buried til River dug it up. This is what they feared she knew. And they were right to fear, 'cause there's a universe of folk that are gonna know it too.  They're gonna see it. Somebody has to speak for these people. He pauses. Everyone waits.
jayne		My grandma always told me: if you can't do something smart, do something right. By way of emphasis he loudly cocks his big-ass rifle. Mal takes in the fact that Jayne has spoken for them all.
mal		That the same grandma told you 4 there was an evil dwarf spirit living in your well?
simon		Do we have a plan?
mal		Mr Universe. We haven't the equipment to broadwave this code, but he can put it on every screen for thirty worlds. He's pretty damn close, too.
river		Based on our orbital trajectories, he reached optimum proximity just before our sunset. If we make a direct run within the hour we're only 67,332 miles out. At full burn we'd reach him inside of three- hours .
wash		Still got the Reavers, and probably the Alliance between us and him.
zoe		It's a fair bet the Alliance knows about Mr Universe. They're gonna see this coming.
mal		No. He takes a long moment, his jaw tightening imperceptibly.
mr universe		It's no problem! Bring it on bring it on bring it on! From here to the eyes and ears of the 'verse, that's my motto, or it might be if I start having a motto.
mr universe		You're gonna get caught in the ion cloud, it'll play merry hob with your radar, but pretty pretty lights and a few miles after you'll be right in my orbit.
mr universe		You'll be the first. CLOSE ON: the Operative's sword, as he unsheathes it.
helmsman		I'm reading activity in the cloud.
the operative		 You should have let me see her. We should have done this as men. Not with fire...
helmsman		Sir! ,Wd
the operative		Vessel in range, lock on...
the operative		That's not good...
the operative		Target the Reavers!  Target the Reavers! Target everyone! Somebody FIRE!
mal		We're too close for them to arm --
zoe		This is gonna be very tight --
wash		 I am a leaf on the wind, watch how I soar.
mal		Chickens come home to roost... They are suddenly JOLTED by a glancing blow from another ship -- Wash struggles to control her --
mal		 What does that mean?
mal		Where's the back up? Where's the back up? He and Wash are frantically flipping buttons -- the ship whirs to a semblance of life - -
zoe		Back up reads at 20%.. - Can you get us down?
wash		I'm gonna have to glide her in!
zoe		Will that work?
wash		140 Long as that landing strip is made of fluffy pillows...
mal		 Everybody to the upper decks! Strap yourselves to something!
wash		I am a leaf on the wind. Watch -- A massive harpoon CRASHES through the windshield and impales him to his chair. It's as thick around as a telephone pole. Wash has time to open his mouth in surprise before he is dead.
jayne		Go! The entire crew piles out, all heavily bedecked with weapons.
mal		Head inside!
mal		Come on. Jayne, rearguard. Zoe slows, looking around her.
zoe		Sir.  This is a good hold point_
mal		We all stay together --
zoe		No. They have to come through here; they'll bottleneck and we can thin 'em out. We get pushed ,oO back there's the blast doors.
kaylee		I can rig 'em so they won't re- open once they close.
mal		Then shut 'em and hide til --
zoe		We need to draw them til it's done. This is the place. We'll buy you the time.
jayne		 Move those crates back there for cover -- and make sure they ain't filled with anything goes boom.
kaylee		Wait, Wash -- where's Wash? Nobody  realized he wasn't there. Zoe is dead calm. ,No ZOE He ain't comin'. Everybody takes that in, Kaylee's eyes welling up.
jayne		Move the gorram crates! Come on! We hear savage SCREAMS from the hanger -- they're approaching. Mal moves to the door, Jayne beside him.
mal		Tell me you brought 'em this time... Jayne smiles grimly, tosses Mal a grenade as he pops his own and fastballs it at the Reavers.
mal		 Zoe... are you here? She looks up at him.
zoe		Do the job, sir.
mal		You hold. Hold till I'm back. He takes off -- passes Inara, the two of them holding a look for as long as they can. Then he's in the elevator and gone. Jayne moves over to Zoe.
jayne		Captain's right. Can't be thinking on revenge if we're gonna get through this.
zoe		You really think any of us are gonna get through this? He looks back at their army: A companion, a doctor, a mechanic and a more-than-usually out of it River. A beat, and he looks back at Zoe with forlorn hope:
jayne		I might...
v0		Mal comes close. Nothing. He starts to move away again and the lovebot turns her head, her eyes focusing with an audible whir. She speaks with surprisingly realistic expressiveness, and a warped, computery version of Mr Universe's voice.
lovebot		Mal. Mal stops.
a0		She turns back, powering down. Recording over. A beat, and Mal takes off.
river		I can't shut them up...
simon		It's okay... -
river		They're all made up of rage. I can't... A BANG as a body slams against the door.
simon		Just stay low. I'm right here.
jayne		She picked a sweet bung of a time to go helpless on us.
zoe		 Jayne and I take the first wave. Nobody shoots less they get past our fire. Simon moves to Kaylee, who is shaky as hell. The bangs on the door continue.
kaylee		Oh, I didn't plan on going out like this. I think we did right, but...
simon		I never planned... anything. I just wanted to keep River safe. Spent so much time on Serenity trying to find us a home I never realized I already had. She looks at him with soft surprise.
kaylee		With me? You mean to say, as, sex?
kaylee		Hell with this. I'm gonna live. Simon looks at her a moment, then turns his attention to the door. Inara come up into frame with the contents of the oilcloth: a bow and arrow, which she pulls back with focused grace. ANGLE: THE DOOR starts to come off its hinges.
mal		 Guy killed me, Mal.
mal		Hard to get to. That's a fact.
jayne		Zoe... Gorramnit... But she is in a trance, and we see beneath the calm, to the bubbling magma of rage that keeps her firing, single shots, each one a kill, till five men down and she's out of ammo. The sixth comes at her swinging a blade and she blocks, the precision of military training still in her as she flips him, wresting the blade free and swinging it down out of frame, bringing it up bloody, swinging again as the door bursts open and she's rushed from behind --- But Jayne totes an automatic, sprays killing fire on the lot, moving forward himself --
mal		 Shot me in the back. I haven't... made you angry, have I? I s
the operative		There's a lot of innocent people in the air being killed right now.
mal		You have no idea how true that is. There's no wise-ass attitude in him now. They stand, facing off at ten paces.
the operative		You really believe that?
mal		I do.
the operative		You willing to die for that belief?
v0		I am. The Operative raises his gun -- but Mal is the quickdraw master, shoots the gun out of the Operative's hand and gets two hits to the chest  before he makes it to cover.
simon		Spine's intact --
zoe		Just gimme a bandage. Simon pulls a spraycan from his bag, sprays the wound with a foam that hardens instantly into an elastic covering.
jayne		Oh, now you're likin' guns, huh? Cheaters! He takes a hit in the shoulder, grimaces and keeps firing. River watches, the gun limp in her hand. Kaylee grabs it and starts another round -- but she's peppered with dart-like projectiles. She screams and drops the weapon, pulling the projectiles from her -- Inara helps her up, pulls her back as Zoe shouts:
zoe		Everybody fall back! Fall back! Everyone stumbles or is dragged into the inner corridor. Inara hits the controls and the doors start to close, from each side and above and below. Then, when the hole is maybe four by four, they stop.
jayne		Very last one... He tosses it through the hole. Zoe doesn't even flinch from the blast as she thinks.
zoe		They're gonna get in --
kaylee		Can close it... from outside...
zoe		No one's coming back from that... She tries to stand, fails.
jayne		We got three full cartridges and my swingin' cod. That's all. Inara is by the elevator, pounding for it to come.---
inara		Lift isn't moving...
zoe		When they come, try to plug the hole with 'em... Kaylee cries out and Simon moves to her.
kaylee		I'm starting to lose some feeling here... I think there's something in them darts they throwed at me.
simon		Lie still. I'm gonna give you something to counteract the -- He stands, looking around him. His bag is over by Zoe.
inara		Keep pressure here...
simon		My bag. Need... adrenaline... and a shot of calaphar for Kaylee... I can't... River...? She is by his side, takes his hand. She has a kind of serenity to her, like she understands something now.
river		No. No. The lights go out. Everyone looks about them. Jayne fires again, but all the sound has bled out save these two.
simon		I hate to... leave...
river		You won't. You take care of me, Simon. You've always taken care of me. She stands as the emergency lights come on, giving her face an unearthly glow as she looks down at him.
the operative		You know what your sin is, Malcolm?
mal		 Aw hell, I'm a fan of all seven. He headbutts the Operative viciously, then punches him so hard he staggers back, losing his grip on the sword. The Operative responds with a spin kick -- Mal holds up the screwdriver and the Operative swings his foot right into it, gasping as Mal pulls the screwdriver -- and leg it's stuck in -- back as he rockets his fist into the Operative's chin. The Operative goes down hard, dazed, as Mal grabs the sword still in his belly.
jayne		You suppose he got through? Think Mal got the word out?
zoe		 He got through. I know he got through.
the operative		I'm sorry. The Operative spins him and DIGS his bunched fingers right into the same nerve cluster that he paralyzed Doctor Mathias with. Mal goes rigid, his face a rictus of pain. The Operative goes near the railing and retrieves his sword. Mal trembles, trying to move -- but nothing happens.
mal		Iwo Well, I'm known for that. The Operative drops the blade, mouth open, stumbling back, unable to make a sound. Mal spins him, grabbing both his arms and working his own through them in a twisted full nelson -- then bringing his arms up suddenly, the Operative's mouth going wider as we hear his arms crack. Mal drops him sitting against the railing, picks up his sword, saying:
zoe		Sir?
soldier		Drop your weapons! Drop 'em now!
another soldier		Do we engage? Do we engage?
mal		If you're here to tell me we ain't finished... then we will be real quick. The Operative stands just under the canopy of the nose of the ship, framed by the rain behind.
the operative		Do you know what an uproar you've caused? Protests, riots -- cries for a recall of the entire Parliament.
the operative		You must be pleased.
mal		'Verse wakes up a spell. Won't be long 'fore she rolls right over and falls back asleep. Taint my worry.
the operative		I can't guarantee they won't come after you. The Parliament. They have a hundred men like me and they are not forgiving.
mal		That don't bode especially well for you... giving the order to let us go, patching up our hurt...
the operative		I told them the Tams were no longer a threat -- damage done.
w mal		They take you down, I don't expect to grieve overmuch. Like to kill you myself, I see you again.
the operative		You won't. There is...  .nothing left to see. Mal looks at him a moment, then picks up his gear to head inside. The Operative starts away into the rain, then stops to look up at the nose of the ship. ANGLE: the newly painted Serenity, standing tall in the rain.
mal		You still standing there when the engine starts, you never will figure it out. The Operative watches the door shut. A moment, and he goes.
mal		 What a whiner...
zoe		Sir, we have a green light. Inspection's pos and we're clear for upthrust.
mal		Think she'll hold together?
zoe		She's tore up plenty. But she'll fly true.
vw		A beat between them before:
mal		Make sure everything's secure. Could be bumpy.
zoe		Always is. She takes off and Mal heads up the stairs.
mal		We're taking her out. Should be about a day's ride to get you back to your girls.
inara		Right.
mal		 You ready to get off this heap and back to a civilized life?
inara		I, uh...  I don't know. He looks at her, a smile in his eyes.
mal		Good answer. He turns and heads into the bridge.
mal		You gonna ride shotgun, help me fly? V0 River is in the copilot's seat, looking intently at the screens and buttons.
river		That's the plan.
mal		Think you can work out how to get her in the -- She is flipping switches without even looking, as the ship hums to life.
mal		Okay, clearly some aptitude for the... but it ain't all buttons A0 and charts, . You know what the first rule of flying is? Well, I suppose you do, since you already know what I'm about to say.
river		I do. But I like to hear you say it. He looks out at the rain on his windows, at his screens, taking her up as he says:
mal		Love. You can learn all the math in the 'verse, but you take a boat in the air you don't love, she'll shake you off just as sure as the turning of worlds. Love keeps her in the air when she oughta fall down, tells you she's hurting 'fore she keens. Makes her a home. River also looks out at the sky.
river		Storm's getting worse.
mal		We'll pass through it soon enough.
