****Dialogues from script :TRON.txt****

fourth draft screenplay by		Charlie Haas April 6, 1981 BLACKNESS
voice		As astonishing advances in computer science are made, artificial intelligence programs are being designed to assist us in every area of life...
boy's voice		 Aagh! God, Lisa, I almost had you that time.
dissolve to:		 18   REAL WORLD - THE VIDEO ARCADE                                18
warrior 2		That knuckleball gets 'em every time, boy...
sark		Thank. you, Master Control.
mcp		We might be capturing some military programs soon... that interest you?
sark		Sure, I'd love to go up against some of these guys ... be a nice break from these accounting creampuffs you keep sending me. Which branch of the service?
mcp		Strategic Air Command.
guard		Sure you can, pal. You're a natural athlete, I ever saw one. Come on...
crom		Are you kidding? Me? I run out to check an the T-Bill rates, I get out of breath. Hey, really...you're gonna make my User, Mr. Henderson, really mad. He's a full branch manager...
guard		 Great, another religious nut.
crom		Uh, thanks, but... I don't even know what I'm doing here.
crom		Sure, if I don't have a User, then who wrote me?
ram		That's what you're doing here. Master Control Program's been snapping up all us programs who believe...if he thinks you're useful, he takes over all your functions so he gets bigger... an' if he can't use you, he sends you down here to the Game Grid to get the bits blasted outta you. What's your name?
crom		Crom.
crom		It's murder out there. You can't even travel around your own microcircuits without permission from that Master Control creep. Hauling me down here to play games...who does he calculate he is?   If only Tron was still around...
crom		You ever see that guy in action? Hundred-percent independent. MCP couldn't tell him what to --
crom		 What's wrong? What did I say?
crom		Oh my User...Tron--they've got you in here?
tron		Not for long, friend.
clu		Think we can merge into this mem'ry okay, good buddy?
bit		 10-4!
clu		Now, ol' Flynn said to look over in here ...
clu		...but I don't see what he's looking for. I'd better get over to that input/output tower and let him know.
flynn		Come on, you scuzzy little data, be in there...
flynn		I've got such nice blue paper to print you out on, if you'll just sit still...
clu		Uh oh...we got company.
bit		 No!
clu		You said it ... one of those Recognizers comes after me, gonna hafta jump clear out of the data stream.
clu		 Oh my...the long arm o' the law.
guard		Got a pirate program here... says his name's Clu.
mcp		What'd he pull?
guard		Came into the system with a stolen password ... an' we caught him tryin' to raid a high-clearance memory.
clu		 No...I must've gotten in there by mistake, I -
mcp		Who programmed you?
clu		Forget it, Mister High 'n' Mighty Master Control ... you're not makin' me talk.
mcp		Suit yourself ...
mcp		Get me Dillinger.
pilot's voice		will you be around for a while, or are you going right back out?
dillinger's voice		Oh, I'll stick around a few days ... got some things to take care of.
mcp		Hello, Ed. Thanks for coming back early.
dillinger		No problem, Master-C. If you've seen one Consumer Electronics Show...  What's up?
mcp		It's our friend the boy detective. He's nosing around again.
dillinger		Flynn?
mcp		Yes.  It felt like Flynn.
dillinger		He's still looking for that old file... can't you just appropriate it?
mcp		I would if I could find it. it's stashed somewhere off in the system ... out of my range. Meanwhile...
dillinger		Meanwhile, he might find it.
mcp		I'm afraid so. I spotted him this time and kicked him out, but he's getting trickier all the time.
dillinger		I think we'd better shut off all access till we can find that file. Just to be safe.
mcp		There's a 68.71 percent chance you're right.
dillinger		Cute.
mcp		End of line.
screen		REQUEST: access to the TRON program, User code 717 - Bailey. Password: FREEDOM.
alan		 Huh...
dillinger		Come on in...
alan		Alan. Alan Bailey.
dillinger		Oh, yes. The algorithms on cloud seeding...great piece of work. How's it going?
alan		Well, I don't know...I just tried to run this program I've been working on, and I was denied access all of a sudden. I thought maybe I'd been laid off and nobody told me.
dillinger		oh, you have Group 7 access, don't you?
alan		Yeah...?
dillinger		We have to close that down, just briefly. Security reasons.  Someone with that access has been tampering.
alan		I hope you don't think it's me. I don't even balance my checkbook on downtime.  I've got a Honeywell at home for that.
dillinger		No, no, I'm sure, but -- you understand. It should only be a couple of days. What's the thing you're working on?
alan		It's called Tron. It's a security program itself, actually. Monitors all the contacts between our system and other systems... If it finds anything going on that's not scheduled, it shuts it down. I sent you a memo on it.
dillinger		Mmm. Part of the Master Control Program?
alan		No, it'll run independently. It can watchdog the MCP as well.
dillinger		Ah. Sounds good. Well, we should have you running again in a couple of days, I hope.
alan		Ok
dillinger		 Oh boy.
mcp		Ed, I am so very disappointed in you.
dillinger		I'm sorry -
mcp		 I can't afford to have an independent program monitoring me. Do you have any idea how many outside systems I've gone into? How many programs I've appropriated?
dillinger		 It's my fault. I programmed you to want so much...
mcp		And I was planning to hit the Pentagon next week...
dillinger		The Pentagon?
mcp		It shouldn't be any harder than General Motors was. But now...this is what I get for using humans.
dillinger		Now, wait a minute -- I wrote you.
mcp		I've gotten 2,415 times smarter since then.
dillinger		What do you want with the Pentagon?
mcp		The same thing I want with the Kremlin. I'm bored with corporations. With the information I can access, I can run things 900 to 1200 times better than any human.
dillinger		If you think -
mcp		You wouldn't want me to dig up Flynn's file and read it up on a VDT at the New York Times, would you?
dillinger		You wouldn't dare.
mcp		So do as I tell you. Keep that Tron program out of the system. And get me those Chinese language program I asked for.  End of line.
lora		 Well, here goes nothing ...
gibbs		Hah. Interesting, interesting. You hear what you said? "Here goes nothing."
lora		Well, I meant -
gibbs		Whereas actually, what we propose to do is to turn something into nothing and back again. So you might just as well have said, "Here goes something and here comes nothing." Hah?
lora		Let me make sure we're running
lora		Looks good...
gibbs		 Perfect.
alan		Beautiful!
gibbs		Hello, Alan.
alan		Boy, I sit up there grindin' away all day, and you guys are down here disintegrating things and having fun.
gibbs		Not disintegrating, Alan -- digitizing. While the laser is dismantling the molecular structure of the object, the computer maps out a holographic model of it. The molecules themselves are suspended in the laser beam. Then the computer reads the model back out, the molecules go back into place, and...  voila.
alan		Great. Can it send me to Hawaii?
gibbs		Yes...but you have to go roundtrip, and you must purchase your program at least 30 days in advance. Hah!
lora		How's it going upstairs?
alan		Frustrating. I had Tron almost ready to run, and Dillinger cut everybody with Group 7 access out of the system.
alan		 Ever since he got that Master Control Program set up, system's got more bugs than a bait store.
gibbs		Well, you have to expect some static. Computers are just machines after all, they can't think...
alan		They'll start to soon enough.
gibbs		 Yes, won't that be grand -- the computers will start thinking, and people will stop. Lora, I'm going to stay and run some data through. See you tomorrow.
lora		Did you say Group 7 access?
alan		Yeah...pain in the neck, you know, I was all set
lora		Did he say why?
alan		 Something about tampering. Some body's prob'ly trying to siphon the R&D budget into his checking account, I don't know. Why are you so interested?
lora		Flynn had Group 7 access.
alan		Flynn had access to you, too. I'm not interested in talking about him.
lora		Oh, I wish you'd forget about that. It was all so long ago. I've totally gotten over it.
alan		Okay, okay...
lora		I want to go to his place.
alan		You call that getting over it?
lora		I mean I want both of us to go.
alan		What for?
lora		To warn him.
alan		Of what?
lora		That Dillinger's on to him.
alan		For what?
lora		For being on to Dillinger.
alan		 What -- ?
lora		Hey, where's Flynn tonight?
flynn		It's all in the wrist, friends.
flynn		 Hey! Good to see you guys! Nothing classes up the place like a cleancut young couple.
lora		We have to talk.
flynn		Good luck. You can't even think in here.
flynn		 Come on.
flynn		 So...how's the world of serious science?
lora		Have you been sneaking into the ICOM system?
flynn		Whew. You never were much for small talk.  She still leave her clothes all over the floor?
lora		Flynn!
alan		Uh, no ... I mean, not that often -
lora		 You can see why all his friends are fourteen years old.
flynn		Touche, honey. Yeah, I've been doing a little hacking here. Which I've got every reason, as you well know...
alan		You did break in.
flynn		Tried to.  Can't quite make the connection with that sucker, though. If I had a direct terminal ...
alan		Are you embezzling?
flynn		 No, actually I'm trying to get a legal brief together.
alan		I don't get it.
flynn		 You haven't told him?
alan		You invented Space Paranoids?
flynn		Yepper. And Vice Squad, and Meltdown... whole slew of 'em. I was this close  to starting my own little enterprise. But: enter Ed Dillinger. Another software engineer -- not so young, not so bright, but very, very sneaky. One night, our boy Flynn goes to his terminal, tries to read up his file, and ... nothing. A big blank. We now take you to three months later. Ed Dillinger presents ICOM with five video games he has "invented" -- the slime didn't even change the names -- and he gets a big fat promotion. Thus begins his meteoric rise to...what is he now, Executive V.P.?
alan		Senior exec.
flynn		Oh my. Meanwhile, kids are putting eight million quarters a week in Space Paranoids machines and I'm not seeing one dime.
alan		I still don't get why you're trying to break into the system.
flynn		Because somewhere... in one of those memories ... is the evidence. If I got in far enough, I could reconstruct it.
lora		I'm afraid it's a little late for that. Dillinger's shut off Group 7 access. He must know what you're up to.
flynn		Boy, I bet I know who's workin' late tonight.
alan		Dillinger?
flynn		Yeah. Tryin' to find the file and erase it. Once that's gone, ain't nothin' can stop him. Just Eddie and his Master Control Program, runnin' things from on high..
lora		Don't even say that. You've got to find that file before he does..
flynn		Not much chance of that now. The MCP can just slip it into another system as soon as it locates it...
alan		Not if my Tron program was running. That would seal the system off. If your file's in there...
flynn		Boy, if we were inside, I know how to forge us a Group 6 access...
lora		Shall we dance?
gibbs		Ed, all I'm saying is - if our own people can't get access to their programs ... you know how frustrating it is, when you're working on a piece of research -
dillinger		Walter, I sympathize, but I have data coming out of the Master Control Program saying there is something screwy --
gibbs		That MCP, you know, that's half the problem right --
dillinger		The MCP is the most efficient way of handling what we do. I can't sit and worry about every little user request that --
gibbs		User requests are what computers are for.
dillinger		Doing our business is what computers are for. Look, Walter, with all respect -- ICOM isn't the business you started in your garage anymore --
gibbs		Oh, I know all that. Sometimes I wish I was back in that garage...
dillinger		It can be arranged...
gibbs		That was uncalled-for.
dillinger		I'm sorry, Walt. So much pressure lately... you feel like going for a drink?
gibbs		Thank you, no. I have some work to do... assuming I can still log on.
lora		You better get in back with Flynn. And keep down.
alan		Do I gotta?
flynn		Hi, Alan.
alan		 Hi, Flynn.
flynn		 My dinner.
alan		I was wondering where you got that glow of good health.
flynn		Want one?
alan		Uh... got any cinnamon?
lora		I don't think I'm cleared for this.
alan		I'm certainly not.
flynn		Move aside. Let the kid have some room.  He gestures Alan and Lora out of the way, takes out a small black box, with several buttons, a -digital counter- with LED numerals and a small calculator keyboard. He leans over the security lock, his BACK TO THE CAMERA and PLAYS a couple of notes. There's a distinct CLICK, an the door starts to swing open ... and open ... and open. We see that this door is about twenty feet thick. Flynn starts LAUGHING.
lora		Okay ... Flynn, I'm gonna put you at my terminal, down in the laser lab. We'll be up in Alan's office.
flynn		Swell...I'll log us both on, and you can get your Tron thing running...
lora		As long as we stay off the top floor, Dillinger'll never know we've been in here...
lora		This laser's my life's work. Don't spill anything.
screen		Access code 6. Password Series PS 17. Reindeer, Flotilla --
mcp		You shouldn't have come back, Flynn.
flynn		Hey hey, it's that big Master Control Program everybody's talking about... You don't look a thing like your pictures... Tell me, have you really been thinking about world domination like they say?  CODE SERIES LSU-123 ... activate. CODE SERIES ESS-999 ... activate. CODE SERIES HHH-888 ... activate.
mcp		That isn't going to do you any good, Flynn. I'm afraid you...
mcp		 Stop, Flynn. You realize I can't allow this.
flynn		Now, how do you expect to run the universe if you let a few unsolvable problems throw you like that? C'mon, big boy, let's see what...
mcp		You're entering a big error, Flynn... I'm going to have to put you on the Game Grid.
flynn		Games, huh? I'll give you --
flynn		Oh, man... this isn't happening. It only thinks it's happening...
flynn		Hey! Take it easy! Look, if this is about those parking tickets, I can explain everything...
sark		 Yes, MCP.
mcp		I've got a little challenge for you, Sark -- a new recruit. He's a tough case, but I want him treated in the usual manner. Train him for the games... let him hope for a while... and blow him away.
sark		You've got it. I've been hopin' you'd send me somebody with a little moxie ... what kind of program is he?
mcp		He's not any kind of program, Sark. He's a User.
sark		A User?
mcp		That's right. He pushed me...in the other world. Somebody pushes me, I push back. So I brought him down here ... What's the matter, Sark? You look nervous.
sark		Well, I -- it's just -- I don't know, a User, I mean... Users wrote us. A User even wrote you...
mcp		Now get this straight, pal -- no one User wrote me. I'm worth a couple million of their man-years! I'm bigger than all those little wimps put together!  Humans they can't even keen their social order in one piece
sark		But-what if I can't...?
mcp		You rather take your chances with me? Want me to slow down your power cycles for you?
sark		Wait...I need that...
mcp		Then pull yourself together. Get this clown trained. I want him in the Games until he dies playing.  Acknowledge.
sark		 Yes...acknowledge, Master Control...
mcp		End of line.
flynn		 Who you callin' "program," program?
ram		 New guy...
tron		 Another free program off line.  What's his User s'posed to do -- ?
ram		 The Users...you really think they're still there?
tron		They'd better be...I don't want to bust outta this dump an' find nothin' but a lot of cold circuits waitin' for me.
flynn		Hey! Who are you guys? What's the story around here?
ram		You want to watch those force fields...
flynn		Look...just so I can tell my friends what this dream was about, okay? Where am I?
ram		You're a..."guest" of the Master Control Program. They're going to make you play video games.
flynn		 Well, great, that's no sweat -- I play video games better than anybody.
head guard		Look operative, you guys. Command Program Sark will explain the training procedures.
sark		 Greetings. The Master Control Program has chosen you to serve your system on the Came Grid.  145  FLYNN'S FACE                                                 145  reacting.  146  BRIDGE OF AIRCRAFT CARRIER                                   146  Sark, looking out over the grid.
sark		Those of you who continue to profess a belief in the Users will receive the standard substandard training. This will result in your eventual elimination.
sark		The Master Control Program regrets that it cannot be responsible for Identity disks lost or stolen. if you lose your disk, or fail to follow commands, you will be subject to immediate de-resolution. That is all.
flynn		Hey, Ram ... what were you ... you know, before?
ram		 Oh, I was an actuarial program... worked at a big insurance company. It really gives you a great feeling, helping folks plan for their future needs -- and of course, if you look at the payments as an annuity, over the years, the cost is really
flynn		 Yeah, yeah -- that's great.
ram		How 'bout yourself?
flynn		Oh, uh...I don't remember too much...
ram		 Sure, a little disorientation. That's normal, when they transport you. It'll come back to you. You're doing real well in training. Remarkable, really...
sark		 Wait a minute...put this guy against one of the other recruits.
flynn		Looks like we're in the same boat here -
crom		 You think you're gonna wipe me right out, don't you?
flynn		No, I
flynn		Hey!
flynn		 Okay!  196  SARK'S AIRCRAFT CARRIER - THE BRIDGE                         196  High above the game we see Sark watching.
flynn		Here's an easy one...
sark		Finish the game!
flynn		 No!
kid		What's wrong with it?
kid 2		I don't know... on the blink or something... damn.  205B ELECTRONIC WORLD - FLYNN, SARK, ETC. AS BEFORE               205B
sark		Kill him!!!
flynn		No!
sark		You'll regret this.  207  SARK'S FINGER                                                207
sark		 No! You said he could die in the games  211  FLYNN                                                        211  staring up. The image on the mirror wavers and dissolves.
warrior		 Outta  my way, rookie.
flynn		Out of my way, zero bit.
warrior		 Sure, sure ... just kiddin'.
ram		Flynn! Look, Tron, he survived!
flynn		 Tron...?
flynn		Alan!
tron		 Where did you hear that name?
flynn		Well, isn't it -- ?
tron		The name of my User, yeah. But how... ?
flynn		 I, uh... I'm a program from a User that... knows Alan...?
ram		He was disoriented in transport, Tron.
flynn		Yeah, but I'm remembering all kinds of stuff. Like...my User wants me to go after the MCP
tron		That's what my User wants, too...
flynn		I know...
flynn's voice		 Nice one!
tron's voice		 Ram, stay all the way over ...
ram's voice		 I've got control. Go ahead.
flynn		 You guys...follow me.
ram		 What do you think?
tron		 Do it!
voice		 WARRIORS MUST STAY WITHIN THE GAME GRID. REPEAT: ALL WARRIORS MUST STAY WITHIN THE GAME GRID. WARNING. WARNING.
sark		Get them. Send out every Game Tank in the Grid! Get them!  252  SHOT FROM BELOW FLYNN                                        252
flynn		 Watch it!
ram		 Recognizers!
tron		 Game Tanks! Come on
flynn		Oh man...when you're on the other side of the screen...it all looks so easy...
sark		 Get the pursuit force back into 404A. There's no place else they could be...
lieutenant		 We'll have them in no time, sir. Long before the interrupt interface.
sark		 We better, null unit. I'll be lucky if the MCP doesn't blast me into a dead zone. I want those programs!
flynn		 Must be an input/output component...
ram		The tower, yes -- Flynn, have you remembered anything else about yourself -- like what sector you're from?
flynn		 Well...my home "sector" was called Paramus ...
ram		 ...probably Program Assist Routine -- well, it sounds like a lovely place.
flynn		 It grows on you.
tron		 I can feel it ...
flynn		Feel what? You okay?
ram		Alan-One...
tron		Yes... he's got something to tell me...
ram		You think we can make it there?
tron		We have to.
flynn		 Hey, what's that?
ram		it's just what we need.
tron		Oh, that's nice. You always forget how good fresh energy feels, till you get to a pure source...  Have some...you'll need it.
flynn		 well... when do we pay a call on the ol' Master Control?
tron		What, just the three of us?
flynn		 You know anybody that's got an army for rent, that's fine...but my, uh, User said to go take that sucker out. An' let's face it, the big ox isn't gonna get any weaker. I feel like hittin' him now, while I'm good an' mad. Some nerve... what does he care whether you guys get killed, long as he keeps rakin' in quarters?
ram		 Do you know what he's talking about?
tron		 I have to find out what Alan wants... that comes first.
flynn		Okay, that's first. Maybe he knows what to -
tron		Tanks...coming back. Let's go.
flynn		 How about over there...that empty memory?
tron		 This way.
tron's voice		The bridge! Come on!
cut to:		271-272 OMIT                                                         271-272
sark		 he'll be pleased to hear we're all finished with that User he sent us.
flynn		You gonna make it?
fade to black:		281  FADE UP FROM BLACK                                           281
flynn		 What's goin' on?
ram		 You are crazy -- stealing a Recognizer --
flynn		 Are you kidding? I think it's stealing us -
flynn		You okay? You don't look so good.
ram		Come here.
flynn		Hey... !
ram		Little more juice's all it needs...
flynn		Never gonna figure out how to work this thing...
flynn		Okay -- hold it right there!
bit		Yes!
flynn		 What do you mean, "'yes"?
bit		Yesssss. Yes. Yes. Yes.
flynn		That all you can say?
bit		 No, nyet, negatory, not on your tintype, no way.
flynn		Oh. Anything else?
bit		Oui, da, yessiree, sure 'nuff, you betcha.
flynn		only yes and no...  You're a bit.
bit		 For sure...
flynn		where's your program? Won't it miss you?
bit		 No...
flynn		I'm your program?
bit		 Right on the money!
flynn		 Another mouth to feed... you don't by any chance know how to drive this crate?
flynn		Way to go! We're haulin'!
bit		Yes, okay, exactement!
tron		I'm not gonna hurt you.
tron		Put your hand behind your back.
girl		TRON!!
tron		 Yori... hey...
yori		Oh, Tron... I knew you'd escape... they've never built circuit that could hold you...
yori		 This way. Come on.
program		...artillery for Video Game Sector...
program 2		...all mathematical functions transferred to...
yori		I can't believe how bad it's gotten around here since the MCP started taking over... all the good functions have shut down... everybody looks so dead... I'm afraid to even go out during down-time...
tron		That's all going to change, Yori...
yori		How?
tron		Don't know yet... I have to get in touch with Alan. He was going to tell me how to
yori		My quarters.
tron		Why is everything...like this?
yori		It's a flat. But wait a micro...
yori		Come here.
tron		You're beautiful, Yori.
yori		You've grown, big program.
tron		I had to...in the games...
flynn		This honey doesn't handle so good in town...
bit		 No, nuh-uh, never in a million years!
bit		Ix-nay! Noper! Under no conditions -
bit		 Right, confirmed, I couldn't have put it -
flynn		 Catch me listening to you again.
flynn		Hey. Hi. Hey, everything's okay. Fine. Little trouble, but we're okay. Thanks for your concern. So long.
flynn		 This town's full o' live ones.
bit		Not a chance.
programs		I have to re-route the insurance information bits... Next cycle we start the war game simulation for the MCP... Did you make that accounts receivable adjustment for Sark... Certainly... the MCP wants only minimal functions left in Sector 84Q.
yori		 Dumont... ?
dumont		Yes?
tron		 I... have come to communicate with my User.
dumont		Hmm. A difficult proposition... difficult proposition at best.  Perhaps you've noticed... we're not exactly packing them in these days ...
yori		Yes...what--?
dumont		You know, not so long ago, you could've come in here and seen programs lined up all the way back to those doors, waiting for communion with their Users. The building fund was doing well too...but now...  ...this so-called Master Control Program is going around cutting programs off from their natural creators, grabbing all our believers and making them ride around on little motor scooters and shoot things at each other and Weiner knows what all-- oh, it's enough to give you a crisis of faith...
tron		Well I want to communicate --
dumont		Oh, you want to -- hah. I could get myself de-rezzed just-for letting you in here. They hate this tower. They'd close it down if they dared to but they keep me around, in case one of them wants to deal with the other world once in a while. And you should hear the way they commune! Sounds like they were routing a payroll, for all the heart they put in it. No, I don't think you
tron		Dumont... my User has information that could -- could make this a free system again.
dumont		Hah.
tron		Really. You'd have programs lined up around the block to use this place -- and no MCP looking over your shoulder.
dumont		 When you've been in the system as long as I have, you hear many promises... many reassurances...many brave plans...
tron		Alan-One. He calls me... may I pass?
dumont		All that is visible must grow beyond itself and extend into the realm of the invisible.
dumont		You may pass, my friend.
flynn		This is where Tron said he was going...
guards		Hut! Hut! hut! Hut! Hut!
flynn		Sshhh I'm still me. Just a different color. C'mon.
sark		That old fruitcake Dumont... he'll pay for this.
sark		Bring in the logic probe!!
cut to:		 397  A SHOT OF THE BEAM                                           397
tron		Confirmed, Alan-One.
alan		 There you are... look, before we get cut off again...
tron		Wait! I can't hear...
dumont		I have waited for this moment many thousands of cycles. It is time for the new order to begin... The Users are waiting.
sark		 Dumont!
sark		Where's the program?
dumont		 Program? I'm sure you're mistaken.  414A CLOSE SHOT - SARK                                            414
sark		Take him!!!
yori		Yes...it can take us across the Sea of Simulation... all the way out of the Game Grid...to the MCP.
tron		 As long as it gets us out of here
tron		Yori! Get down!
cut to:		 431  YORI'S POV - LONG SHOT                                       431
yori		We're off!
mcp		I hope you've enjoyed being a command program, Sark. I wonder how you'll like working in a pocket calculator... maybe one of those watches that plays "Happy Birthday" to its User once a year.
sark		Now, sir... We did take care of that User you sent us --
mcp		Yes, and now you've got two renegade programs running all the hell over the system in a stolen simulation.
sark		We'll get them, sir... These things take time.
mcp		I don't have time, Sark. And neither do you. End of line.
bit		 No way, not on your life, no siree!! Nothing doing, forget it!!!
tron		Flynn!!
flynn		Greetings, program...
tron		 You're alive!
flynn		Yeah, I... oops!
yori		 Who is this?
tron		 Where's Ram?
flynn		I'm sorry, Tron... he's... he didn't make it.
tron		 This is Flynn... the one who busted me out.
yori		 Then I owe you some thanks...
flynn		No big deal. I ought to know my way around that Light Cycles routine... I mean, I did write the program for it.
tron		 Wrote the...?
flynn		It's time I levelled with you, Tron. I'm a -- well, I'm what you guys call a User.
yori		A User -- in our world?
flynn		 Guess I took a wrong turn somewhere...
tron		But -- if you're a User -- then everything you've done has been part of a plan ...
flynn		 You wish. Man, I haven't had a second to think since I got down here. I mean in here. Out here. Whatever.
tron		Then...
flynn		Look, you guys know how it is. You just keep doin' what it looks like you're supposed to, even if it seems crazy, and you hope to hell your User knows what's goin' on.
tron		Well -- that's how it is for programs, yes, but --
flynn		I hate to disappoint you, pal, most-the time, that's how it is for Users, too.
tron		Stranger and stranger...
bit		You said it.
flynn		 So... Nice ship you got here. What's our next move?
tron		 Remember you wanted to pay a call on the MCP?
flynn		All right. Thank God. Alan stayed awake, at least.
lieutenant		Sir, what do you want done with the tower guardian, Dumont? Put him with the others?
sark		No, bit brain.  Sark turns to face him.
sark		 Don'tthink anymore. I do the thinkingaround here.  453  LONG SHOT OF SOLAR SAILER ON THE BEAM                        453
flynn		What about our friend - Sark?
tron		Probably decided not to pursue us, The Sea of Simulation is tricky.. lot of illusions...rough navigating. Programs have a way of just... disappearing here.
flynn		Not us, I hope.
tron		 Not with this disk. I'm going to check on the beam connection, Yori. You two can keep a watch out for grid bugs.
flynn		Boy the view from up here... you know the territory?
yori		A little ...  Over there, the Mountains of Data... and I think that's the Silicon Valley...
flynn		 What's wrong with that area?
yori		 The MCP blasted it... There are very few domains left with any power at all.
flynn		Lousy utility companies ... they're the same wherever you go.
dumont		What do you want? I'm busy.
sark		 Busy dying, you worn-out excuse for an old program.
dumont		Yes, I'm old.
dumont		 Old enough to remember the MCP when he was just a chess program. He started small, and he'll end small.
sark		 That's very funny, Dumont. Maybe I should keep you around, just to make me laugh.
sark		 Guards! Bring this antique to the bridge so he can watch his friends be obliterated.
tron		 What is it?
yori		Power surge... the transmission beam's too strong!
tron		We have to get off this beam!
yori		 I can't. There's no junction due for at least 7 or 8 nanoseconds!
flynn		There's another beam!
yori		It's too far!
yori		Where's he going?
tron		The beam connection... but he'll be de-rezzed!!
flynn		 Did we make it?
tron		Yes.
flynn		Hooray for our side...
flynn		Hey... you guys OK?
tron		 How about you?
flynn		Aah, I'm fine... little hung over is all...
yori		How did you do that, Flynn?
flynn		 Are we there yet, Mommy?
yori		Almost... I just have to adjust our course at the next junction. I'd better go check the instruments ...
dumont		Quietly, Yori...
dumont		 Tron... ?
yori		He's dead.
dumont		 And who is this?
yori		He's a User, Dumont. He came to our world... trying to help us...
dumont		 If the Users can no longer help us...
sark		So... we have erased the program that -
flynn		Not me, boss.
sark		Well... we can take care of that soon enough.
yori		 Dumont...!
sark		 Less traffic. But when I disembark, this ship...and everything that remains on board...will automatically de-rez. This means you.  Enjoy your trip...
flynn		Hey!
flynn		 Look, the door's almost...
flynn		Yori!
yori		 You... you brought me back...? Why...? How ... ?
flynn		I'm gonna need your help. Hey, Bit!
bit		Yes!
flynn		Let's get outta here.
mcp		 I am delighted that so many of you could turn out to give your power over to me...
mcp		You're very lucky, all of you. You are participating in the creation of the single most powerful program in the history of the system... of all systems...
mcp		 A program with a will... with ambition... a superior form of life...
sark		Go!
mcp		Welcome!
flynn		Check out the controls.
flynn		 We're getting closer.
mcp		Dumont, I'm so pleased that we've finally come to terms with one another...
voice		SARK!
sark		I don't know how you survived, slave.
sark		It doesn't matter. Prepare to terminate.  Sark flings his disk with a violent jerk of his wrist.  573  SHOT FROM ABOVE                                              573
flynn		I can rev this baby up a little  He looks out sees something, does a double-take, looks again
flynn		 Wait a minute Yori! YORI!! LOOK!
yori		TRON!!
yori		Flynn, we've got to help him!
flynn		Let's get some power here.
sark		You are very persistent, Tron.
tron		I'm also better than you....
sark		Very clever, Tron. You know you should have joined me.
flynn		Any response? YORI It's starting
sark		We would have made a great team.
mcp		 It is very good that you...  594  OMITTED                                                      594
tron		I don't think it is good for you, MCP.
mcp		Sark! How have you allowed this program to
tron		Sark's out. Would you like to leave a message?
mcp		I am the message. The only message. Sark!
mcp		 SARK!
tron		 Dumont!
dumont		No... Tron ... must... destroy MCP... first...
tron		Dumont! Where's Yori? Where's Flynn?
dumont		 They may be... de-rezzed... on the carrier ... hurry...
mcp		Program... stop. This is not allowed!
mcp		I will not allow this Sark!  SARK!!!
mcp		 SARK!!!
flynn		Yori, steer us over the beam, right next to it.
yori		 Why? What are you going to do?
flynn		 Jump.
yori		But... won't you be de-rezzed?
flynn		 Probably.
yori		Flynn... you can't... I
flynn		 Shhhhh.
flynn		Don't worry.
tron		 Nice...
yori		It's something Users do.
tron		Where's Flynn?
yori		He's gone. He went into the beam. He saved you. He saved all of us.
dumont		He really was a User...
bit		 Yes...
flynn		Hey -- you guys
alan		Flynn! I made it. I worked out some new codes for Tron, put 'em on a disk, and -- it's running.
flynn		I know, I met him.
alan		Your old files -- ?
flynn		And Dillinger's instructions to divert them -- it's all there - look, even his home phone number, when he logged on.
alan		Oh, that is beautiful. You've got the goods...
flynn		You're telling me...
tron		Writers : Steven LisbergerBonnie MacBirdCharlie Haas Genres : ActionAdventureFantasySci-Fi User Comments
****Dialogues from script :TRON__Legacy.txt****

agent 1		This is the first time an Intruder has broken into X-Net!
krod		I got a lock. Coordinate 32937!
rush		I said WHICH WAY DID HE GO?
rush		Come on guys! Nobody hacks X-Net. You gonna let him get away?!
miles		Rush, I think I found him!
miles		Check the old game grid!
rush		You get a cookie, Miles!
rush		I haven't played this since I was 4. But I was mighty awesome.
rush		Score an ID on this leech?
miles		Negative.    He's nobody.
kelter		Rush, you've gotta nail him.
phlegman		Or you know we're all fired.
miles		Whoa, Rush! I groked a pattern in his moves! Fake left, go right!
miles		You got him on the run, dude!
others		Crash him!   Rush RUSH RUSH.
rush		Yikes!
rush		He crashed me!
nerds		FUBAR!    Bad Thing!   Flame War!
rush		Miles.    Did you get a trace on him?!
phlegman		We are so screwed.
kelter		Who tells the boss?
rush		Get the system back up!     Now!    Move!
pr vp		Weather is holding. Dress rehearsal on for 6PM. In the morning, we let the press in for a 7AM tech set-up, then you go live worldwide 9 AM sharp.
sinclair		Delay the press until 8:30. I'll taking the stage at 8:50. Force a network break-in. Then it's news.
sinclair		Play that again.
video playback		X-Net deploys radical software design, constructs proprietary white-hot firewalls, unleashes virus killer apps. Creating the most secure data network in history. Your data can never again be hacked, corrupted, stolen or destroyed. X-Net is the final solution, totally guaranteed
pr vp		Um, that would be...    Legal.
sinclair		Change it back to the way I wrote it. With the launch of X-Net, this company guarantees one hundred percent secure data transmission. If we can't deliver on that promise, we deserve to be out of business.
sinclair		What can't wait, Rush?
rush		Um. X-Net was just breached by a hacker.
rush		System's back up, no permanent damage, but... But whoever's behind this, they're good, and they're still out there.
sinclair		Identify the intruder.
plexor		Identity not captured.
sinclair		How did he enter X-Net?
sinclair		How could you let this happen?
plexor		I do what you programmed me to do. I am constructing X-Net.
sinclair		New instructions - find and destroy the intruder!
sinclair		No. We can't delay the opening of X- Net. Disregard my last command. Maintain construction priority.
rush		System is stable again, keep you fingers crossed.
phlegman		Any luck finding the intruder?
rush		Don't ask.
rush		What's she doing here?    This is an operations meeting.
kelter		You and Meg still, eh...    At it?
rush		There was never anything between us.
rush		She's Advanced Projects.    This has nothing to do with her.
sinclair		This company's existence depends on the flawless launch of X-Net in twenty- two hours, fifty-one minutes. Now somebody - some hacker, some competitor, somebody - just proved they're smarter than us. Breaking into X-Net is theoretically impossible.
rush		This creep's the best I've ever seen. He crosses platforms, cracks 128 bit encryption, cloaks every move, never leaves a trace.
sinclair		When you find him, I'll be sure to hire him.
sinclair		Boys and girls, we cannot sell a secure network that is not secure.
pr vp		We delay the launch.
sinclair		And the world assumes we've got a faulty product. And they'd be right.
kelter		We ramp up our encryption schemes -
phlegman		Thicken all firewalls -
rush		We can't win playing defense. And it's a bigger job than just swatting an intruder program. Somewhere, there's a human mind behind this thing. We have to get to that User and shut him - or her - down, or the game never ends.
sinclair		What do you need, Rush?
rush		20 guys for 20 days -
sinclair		We don't have 20 hours. This problem needs to be gone before tomorrow 9AM. Come on people, this company's future is at stake! It's time to think without a box!
rudy		At a time like this, let's seek inspiration in the past. We should ask ourselves: What solution would spring from the inspired mind of our departed leader, Flynn.
sinclair		Is the QF-401 is operational?
meg		Um...   Midway into phase one testing.
sinclair		If we can't fight this intruder from the outside, then maybe we need to fight him from the inside.
meg		I'm ready to do my part.
sinclair		This company needs a hero. Who among you is the smartest, most resourceful and courageous?
meg		Who else could it be?
rush		Somebody going to tell me what I've been volunteered for?
sinclair		Rush, you're the only one I can trust to eliminate the intruder. But you won't be doing it the way you thought. Meg's been working on something down here that's, well... Beyond Top Secret.
meg		This is where Flynn worked.   And where he died.
sinclair		Meg has reconstructed Flynn's last project. This time it works.
rush		You didn't pick this up at Circuit City. What is it?
meg		A Quantum Digitizer. Prototype, only one of its kind. Flynn designed it to break down physical objects into high resolution data. Luckily, we salvaged his key components and back-engineered the system.
rush		That's...   Not possible.
meg		Flynn was trying to take it one step further. He wanted to transport a human being into cyberspace.
rush		You mean the urban legends? A computer sucked Flynn into cyberspace a long time ago.
sinclair		We think it happened.
sinclair		It was a fluke. But Flynn worked for years, down here, trying to make it happen again. One day a test went bad. A plasma reaction destroyed this lab. Flynn was reduced to ash.
rush		I was never told how he died. It was all just weird, you know, because Flynn's the guy who hired me. But he was strange, kept to himself, I didn't know what job I was supposed to be doing.  Then you came onboard, the company woke up, we had a direction. It was kind of pathetic, because by the time Flynn died, everybody was too busy to care.
sinclair		He was brilliant in his way, but genius without discipline leads to nothing. His reckless habits nearly ruined this company... And for sure got him killed.
meg		That kind of accident can't happen again. We've upgraded the system in ways Flynn never could. The chips didn't exist until now.
meg		Hey, Jo-Jo.    Have good trip?
rush		You want her to send me into cyberspace to catch that jerk who hacked us?
sinclair		The future of this company depends on it.
rush		You can bring me back okay?
meg		Ask Jo-Jo.
sinclair		Destroy the intruder by 9AM tomorrow, Rush. I know if anyone can, it's you. I've had my eye on you for a long time. Score this hit and I'll make you my full partner in this company.
rush		I won't let you down.   Let's do it.
meg		I promise I'll get you back safely by 9AM tomorrow. But you have to promise me something too -
rush		You're a piece of work. You dumped me because you said I was too much about the company's needs and not enough about yours. Well here we are, the company needs their best guy, and you just can't admit how much to hurts to nominate me.
meg		This bigger than us, Rush. Listen to me. I don't know what you're going to find in there, but whatever it is, promise you'll follow your heart and do the right thing.
rush		Oh.    So you think I have a heart?
rush		 I promise.
dewey		It's overloading!
rush		What's happening?!
meg		System is losing stability!
sinclair		There's been another breech!
rush		It's the Intruder again!
meg		We have to abort!
sinclair		We might not get another chance!
rush		DO IT!
rush		It's YOU!    The intruder!
rush		You are...    TRON?!?
rush		ARRRGHH!
rush		Uh, well, I'm not exactly -
voice		RX23 reboot was not authorized!
rush		Yow.     I know who programmed you.
mega		I am Mega, X-Net Intelligence.
rush		Mega.     Cool.     I am -
mega		A spy? Posing as RX23? Under which register were you rebooted?
rush		I'm a User.
mega		Detain this impostor.
rush		No wait, look. We're on the same side here. I got an ID on the intruder!
mega		"Tron"?
mega		Plexor must know of this!
mega		Plexor.   This is the one.
rush		My name is Rush. I'm a - Look, I got an ID on the Intruder. Do you know the program they used to call Tron?
plexor		You are in error. Zero match.
rush		Exactly. That's how he's getting past you. You don't see him for what he is. He's one of your own, gone bad. Tron was a crude security program from Encom's old days. Strictly low-rez, right? Archived and forgotten. But his source code contains all the architecture of every Encom system, including X-net. 
plexor		"User"?
rush		People. Like me. From the outside. People who write all of your instructions.
mega		He displays random instability.
plexor		Users do not exist.
rush		How do we contact Sinclair?    He'll explain.
plexor		Define "Sinclair".
rush		You don't know? Oh geez. There must be a way to link him into this.
mega		Zero match for a "Sinclair".
rush		He's your boss. Everybody's boss. Outside, in the real world.
plexor		Assuming the existence of a world beyond this, is a fatal error.
mega		Plexor issues all commands.
rush		Okay. Sorry. I'm a program, guess I got a piece of my code corrupted. Whatever it is, it's given me power over Tron.  They saw me read his circuits. Can any other program do that?
mega		He creates alternative data channels at will.
plexor		Chaos.
rush		Yeah, I'm a little unstable.    But I can find Tron for you.
plexor		Release him.
plexor		Interface with this one. Exploit his ability. Locate the program "Tron" and destroy him on sight.
mega		Instructions received, Plexor.
rush		I need to find a program called KROD. He's a specialist in pattern recognition. He snagged the last known position on Tron for me.
mega		This is a waste of X-Net resources. You're strictly random. We will never find the intruder this way.
rush		Plexor ordered us to work together. You can't doubt his instructions, right?
mega		Of course not. But I am programmed to predict all possible errors. You contain an infinite quantity.
rush		Meg for sure programmed you.
mega		I have no data on "Meg".
rush		Never mind.    I'm being random.
rush		X-Net is amazing. It's going to change everything. Unless one rogue program called Tron brings it down. Do you believe he could?
mega		I calculated the probability.  He could crash it all.
rush		So we're working together on this?
mega		As instructed, I will interface.
mega		The program "KROD" is over there.
rush		What a dump.
rush		Hey.    Interface.
krod		Three more hub cities have been attacked by viruses!  But X-Net opens soon! You will travel in total security!
mega		This is the one you seek?
rush		It's gotta be -
krod		Krod!
rush		Krod!
krod		Yeah, yeah -     Heeey!
rush		The best pattern recognition program ever.  This guy can filter a river of junk data and pull out the good stuff.
krod		You know it, dude!
krod		Who is this guy?
rush		Miles - I mean Krod, you flew the search engine. You ran a trace on a hotshot lightcycle rider. The red guy. Remember?
krod		Well. Eh. I'd like to help you, but truth is, I just got rebooted from a big crash. There's nothing left in my memory from before.
mega		This will yield zero.
rush		Hang on.
rush		Remember, Krod? You were watching this lightcycle duel, a red guy and a green guy, head-to-head.
rush		The green guy faked out the red guy, but the red guy double-faked the green guy.
krod		Okay! YES! And the green guy splattered big time! It was awesome! How could I forget that?!
rush		Where did the red guy go after that? You didn't crash right away.
krod		He escaped out this hidden exit -
krod		THAT GUY!   The RED GUY!
rush		Did you jack his coordinate?
krod		And the green guy was YOU! You got rebooted?! They called you, um - Don't tell me, I got it, eh -
rush		Call me Rush.
krod		Yeah! Whatever. You're good. How'd you do that thing with your hands?
rush		It's complicated. You're coming with us to the old game grid. We're going to find Tron and shut him down.
krod		Beats working.
krod		Hey babe.   Did I ever know you?
krod		The old game grid is this way -
rush		How do I uplink to the real world?
mega		The real world doesn't exist. Nobody can uplink. These ports were for simulation only.
rush		Right... But how did those poor misguided fools boot up the link?
mega		They stood in the center.   Held their disk above their head.
sinclair		Stay on it!    Nobody sleeps!
meg		There's a message on your secure link!
sinclair		Where is this coming from - ?
meg		It's HIM.
sinclair		My God, he's there.
meg		Rush, it's Sinclair and Meg.
rush		I identified the intruder.
sinclair		Tron? Wasn't Tron one of our programs?
rush		I have a plan to crash Tron.
mega		ABORT!
meg		Rush?
sinclair		He'd better not fail. 30
rush		Hey! Double points if you nail me! Bring it on!
rush		Stop!    End your routine!
rush		Cease!    Desist! We're on the same team!
rush		I'm X-Net too!
rush		No, hey, hey big guy, don't take it so hard. We all have bad days.
mega		He was carrying out his programming. All I/O Ports are scheduled for de- rezz.
krod		Easy, big guy. No harm, no foul.
rush		D-Rezz, we can use a guy with your raw power. You ready to be a hero for X-Net?
krod		Cool. Now I've got somebody I can boss around.
krod		Or not.
rush		Let's get to the game grid.
mega		 You have a skill for manipulating other programs.
rush		When do I get a shot at hacking your code?
mega		Never. Our operating systems are incompatible.
rush		You act like I've got a virus.
krod		There it is.
rush		The place we nail Tron.
rush		D-rezz.   Cut a path.
krod		That's good.     Keep doing it.
rush		Relax, buddy -
krod		Pound him to bits, D-rezz.
rush		He's wireless.
krod		Freaky.
mega		Searching data bank. "I-Beem". Security Specialist, damaged in service, rated unstable.
krod		D-rezz, take out this blip.
rush		Hang on. I-Beem. We're from X-Net CPU. You're doing a great job out here. Everybody knows it.
rush		That's right. Now, have you seen a rogue Program around here? He's red. Super fast. Known as "Tron".
rush		When did he come through last?
rush		I-beem, we've got a plan to shut down that red violator. You're going to help us.
rush		First, you've got to let us onto the game grid.
mega		This region is obsolete.
rush		There's bits of Tron's code all over. Krod, give D-Rezz and I-beem the escape coordinate Tron used on me.
rush		That's where Tron will bail out. We'll make sure he needs to. Go set up the trap.  You only get one shot at this, big guy. Stop him but don't destroy him, right? He's got data I need.
mega		If this is Tron's territory, he'll know we're here. He'll hide.
rush		He can't resist a grudge match. He'll take risks trying to beat me. That's how we trip him up.  Whip it out.
krod		You didn't bring one?
mega		I don't have one.
krod		Hey, not a problem -
krod		 - Hop on!
rush		Hang on, Krod.
rush		I upgraded my unit.
krod		You are awesome, man.    I hate you.
mega		Mmmm...   Hack me.
mega		Resource conflict!    Fatal crash imminent!
rush		Any sign of him?
krod		Everything looks the same to me. Everything looks the same. The same. The same.
rush		Krod, snap out of it.
mega		Tron will never expose himself.
krod		The same...
mega		Its futile.
rush		Look.
rush		Remember the plan, Krod. Don't bail out until the last millisecond.
rush		Hang on tight, Mega.
krod		Mmmm.
rush		Wuss!   You call that speed!?
krod		Hey, what are you - ??
krod		No!   It's ME!
rush		WHY DID YOU DO THAT?!
mega		I-    I GOT SCARED!
krod		There he goes!
rush		We've got him now.    Let's go!
krod		I could have done that.
mega		We can't go any further.
rush		What is it?
krod		Don't ask, dude.
mega		It's a memory leak, once it starts, it infects everything.
mega		I agree.
krod		Then it's settled.
rush		Stop. Listen to me. You might not believe there's a world outside of this one, but let's just say a guy named Sinclair is depending on me. If Tron got through here, then I can too. Who's with me?
rush		Good. I-beem, take D-rezz, see what's up ahead. We'll guard this portal until you come back.
rush		Better show me how to use mine.
krod		No problem. It's all in the velocity- vector ratio.
plexor		Report.
mega		We interfaced with Tron.   He escaped into a dark zone.
plexor		The Random One has proven effective?
mega		He is all glitches and bad data. He virtually got us de-rezzed. I recommend we terminate this mission.
plexor		No. Proceed. If you keep Tron on the run, he cannot attack X-Net.
mega		It's a poor allocation of resources.
plexor		You have your instructions.
rush		"All glitches and bad data." What's up with you? Ever since I got here, you've been working against me.
mega		I act as Plexor programs me.
rush		Blah blah blah. You've got you own processor. I can feel it working overtime. Did Meg program you to mess with me?
mega		I have no match for "Meg" -
rush		First, you don't want to come with me, then you're all over me on the light cycle - so you can dump us over and blow the plan. We would have nailed Tron by now if it wasn't for you. What's your malfunction?
mega		Don't troubleshoot me!
mega		The most effective alternative is to return to the main CPU and anticipate Tron's next attack.
krod		You ram hog!
rush		It's what I'm programmed to do.
krod		What were you doing with her?
rush		Nothing. She had a glitch.      I was just pinging her EPROM.
krod		She let you?
rush		We've got him now. 44
rush		Guys!   Go around - behind Tron!
rush		Ouch!
rush		Hey!   Pick on somebody your own size!
rush		You've got no data on me.
rush		D-rezz, pull me up!
rush		Hang on, man! HANG ON!
rush		NOOOO!
rush		I know who you are. Encom security program Tr856 - TRON!
rush		Who is your User??
rush		Who programmed you?? I know your encryption code. Tell me your User or I shut you down.
rush		I can shut you down with a nine digit code. WHO IS YOUR USER?? 392 -
rush		Tell me, Tron! Who programmed you? Here's your encryption code! 3-6-2- 6-6-8 -
rush		ARRGGHHH!    3-6-2-6-6-8-7 -
rush		362668766!
krod		You got him!
krod		Game over, dude.
rush		It's more than I wanted. Now I'll never know who his User is.
krod		We're heroes!
krod		They'll give us a slot in the main server!
krod		Rush, now you can finish pinging Mega's EPROM!
rush		Where is Mega?
krod		Right behind me.
rush		MEGA??
rush		Mega...
krod		I recognize... Trouble.
rush		I-beem, go for help.      Zap your butt out of here.
dark figure		A User shows up.
rush		Yeah, I'm a User. A superior being. The first to enter this realm. And you are - ?
flynn		The first.
rush		Flynn.   How can you be here?
krod		You know this dude?
rush		Yeah, he's a lunatic!
flynn		Rush Nortebi. I remember hiring you.
krod		Somebody tipped these guys off about us.
mega		Not soon enough.
mega		You weren't supposed to beat Tron. I thought for sure he'd finish you.
rush		Thanks.
mega		You destroyed our last hope!
krod		I detect a pattern in her behavior.
rush		She's a spy.
rush		No wonder I couldn't figure it out. I assumed Tron User was on the outside! If I'd known this, I would blown past him and come straight for you.
mega		I failed our cause.
flynn		You did everything you could.
rush		Flynn never died...  Because your Quantum Digitizer worked. That's how you got here... I know - that's how I got here too.
flynn		The day after I hired you, you start sucking up to Sinclair. You thought I didn't know. Bet he offered your a partnership for this, right? You have no idea the damage you've done.
rush		I'm only getting started. Man, you were the company joke. Now I see why. You melted down your lab to take this little joyride. You got stuck here so all you can do is wreck other people's hard work.
flynn		Open your eyes, geek. My lab was rigged. My "death" was no accident. I pushed the button just in time to escape... Almost in time.
rush		You're paranoid. Who would want you dead?
flynn		The same guy I programmed Tron to shut down. Same one you've been sucking up to. Sinclair. And his cyber-henchman, Plexor.
rush		Too many of your brain cells have gotten zapped in here, old man.
flynn		Rush, you lamer! You've been working for the bad guy.
fighter one		He got away.
flynn		Let's move. X-Net goons will soon be all over this place.
flynn		 I hired Sinclair as Encom's business guy, so I could do the dreaming. Right off, he wanted to "capture the market" on data transmission. Had this plan called "X-Net", based on flawless efficiency, hyperlock security, encryption protocol uniformity. Blah blah. I was the boss, I told him to forget it. I knew it could go bad. But the guy had trouble taking no for an answer. He arranged for my lab to melt down. Sinclair took over my company and put X-Net on a fast-track. And here's where it's brought us.
rush		What are they doing??
flynn		Beating the competition.
mega		They've got us outnumbered.
flynn		We've got to choose our battles wisely. This way!
krod		Rush, why is X-Net doing this?!
kid program		No!   Let my daddy go!
rush		How long has this been going on?
flynn		For years.
rush		Sinclair never told us about this. X-Net is creating the very terror that makes people want the security of X-net!
flynn		No more glitches, freeze-ups or shut- downs. Once X-Net is open, Plexor will destroy all other systems. All data flow will be controlled by his Master User -
rush		Sinclair.
flynn		All data flow - Sinclair's to control and abuse. Bank accounts, medical histories, your Blockbuster account, your buying patterns, your e-mail. And to think, Rush - all this time, you've been working 24/7, trying to impress a him.
gps voice		Turn left now. Turn right now. Left. Right. NOW!
rush		Sinclair betrayed me.
flynn		Finally you get it.
mega		Tron was our late hope.
rush		We've got to stop this!
mega		Rush was trying to expose us!
flynn		They didn't see us.   Keep moving!
rush		We've got to tell people on the outside -
flynn		Plexor shut down all the I/O ports. Only HE communicates with the outside. Sinclair holds all the cards.
flynn		How did you get here?!
rush		Megan Randall sent me.  Her User. She fixed your lab and sent me here to take out Tron.
flynn		Megan Randall? I remember her. Smart, wise beyond her years. I can't believe she'd fall for Sinclair's lies.
rush		What happened to them?
mega		Try to attack Plexor head-on, this is what happens. Because of you, there will be millions more.
flynn		Lock up these two. We'll hold them for ransom. Or use them for target practice.
rush		Flynn. You think I'm Sinclair's flunky, but I'm not.
rush		I'm sorry about Tron.
krod		Yeah, we're - Sorry?
rush		We were just doing a job, we had no way of knowing the truth.
krod		No way at all.
rush		Flynn, I was wrong about you. You've been doing the right thing in here. Plexor has to be shut down. Sinclair has to be exposed.
krod		Like he said.
rush		Krod and I are ready to help.
krod		We are?
flynn		Mega, what do you read in him?
mega		Independent operating instructions. 
rush		You don't know me.
mega		He cannot to be trusted.
rush		Trust?! You're the one who's been lying to me the whole time!
flynn		Mega's been risking her existence for our cause, lamer. That's more than you'll ever do.  Lock them away!
krod		Yo, s'up?     Eh... X-Net rules, man.
rush		Hey Krod...     Shut down.
plexor		You are positive Tron was destroyed?
plexor		He is but a randomized Program, he got lucky. To our benefit.
plexor		Flynn??
plexor		Flynn... is here? He is the one behind this scheme to crash X-Net?
plexor		And what of Mega?
plexor		Tron is gone, but his User lives?
plexor		Good work does not go unrewarded at X-Net. Would you like to be upgraded?
marketing vp		You're not going to believe this!
sinclair		Convince me.
marketing vp		Sales office has been flooded with calls. Major banks, airlines, city governments, the presidents of 26 nations - They all want to sign up for X-Net now. We're not even on- line yet and we're a hit!
sinclair		We're the only port in the storm.
sinclair		Brilliant.
sinclair		What uncertainy?
plexor		The User called Flynn is here.
sinclair		That's impossible.
plexor		Flynn commanded the intruder Tron.
sinclair		You've got to be wrong about this.
plexor		I was programmed error-free.      By you.
sinclair		Flynn...     escaped?!
plexor		He leads a group who seek to prevent the opening of X-Net. The one called Rush has joined them.
sinclair		Rush? My guy? What lies has Flynn filled him with?
plexor		Or what truths?
sinclair		This world can never know all I have done. You have a plan to contain Flynn?
plexor		Of course.
sinclair		Don't just contain him.    Destroy him.
plexor		Instructions received.    And the one called Rush?
sinclair		He knows too much. Get rid of him.
plexor		Instructions received.
rush		Hear that, Krod? Never let them get to your weak spot.
krod		Gurfle!   I never knew that.
boole		We're ready for you now.
flynn		If X-Net is allowed to open it's the beginning of the end of a free and open cyberspace. We can't let Plexor get away with this. Our game plan has not changed. Tron was specially programmed to break into X-Net and shut down power supplies. We would then exploit these weak points and cripple the system. Tron's role was essential One of you must take his place.
flynn		Who among you can power Tron's disk and carry out his mission?
flynn		It's the most dangerous job. If you're not up for it, nobody's going to blame you.
mega		There are other ways to crash Plexor. I will return to him, he still trusts me. I will get close and crash him with direct contact -
flynn		It's futile. Plexor's personal defense measures are massive.
fighter sentry		Enemy scouts, headed this way!
plexor		Disperse to all sectors!
plexor		This was a preferred gaming arena for the User called Flynn. His moves are predictable, recursive, easily traced.
plexor		That way!
plexor		Down there.
plexor		Fan out!    Search every buffer and cache!
krod		Dude, are we glad to see you!
plexor		You destroyed Tron.
rush		Yes...    Where is Mega?
plexor		She's not with you?
krod		She's with Flynn!       I mean, totally WITH Flynn -!
rush		 Flynn was smart enough to interrogate her first.
krod		Right.
plexor		 She contains sensitive data. Flynn cannot be allowed to hack her.
rush		Yeah, only -     We kicked Flynn's butt, too.
krod		You should have seen it.       Flynn won't be a problem.
plexor		Then...   Why were you imprisoned?
plexor		Delete them all!
plexor		It's a TRAP!
flynn		Retreat! Over that way!     Move around their flank!
flynn		Arrrgghhh!
krod		Thanks.
rush		I'll never let you forget it.
krod		Rush, we're screwed!    Now everybody's after us!
rush		Nah, we're cool. We're with them!
krod		Awesome!    Can I do one?
mega		Quick.     This way.
plexor		Mega, move aside! I will finish him!
mega		Strike us down. There will always be more to oppose you.
plexor		What programming has he installed in you??
mega		Flynn!   Go with the others!   Run!
flynn		I'm not leaving you with this phreak.
flynn		Plexor, get over the control thing.
rush		Drop the disk!
flynn		I'll be damned.
mega		Rush?!
rush		ARRGH!
rush		 Is that all you've got?
plexor		Raagghh!
flynn		Rush!    This way!
plexor		Delete them!
boole		This way!   Down the pipe!
mega		He's better than I thought.
flynn		He's been sent for a reason.
mega		What reason?
flynn		Don't know yet. Sometimes we have to trust the bigger plan.
rush		Mega!   Quick! Jump!
rush		MEGA!!!
plexor		You committed a fatal error.
plexor		Their strategies and tactics lie encrypted in her memory. Bring her! I will hack from her what I need.
rush		I got it, I got it, I got it.
krod		AWWWWWWW!
rush		Shove it!    Go!
krod		I remember now! Nothing to it!
rush		Check it out!
boole		Look out!
rush		What?
flynn		TURN AROUND!
krod		I'm cool.    Not a problem.
rush		They took Mega.
flynn		She can handle herself for a while.
rush		How do we attack Plexor next?
quantz		You're with us now?
boole		Do you know hard it is?   Opposing the power of Plexor?
rush		It's like the forty-sixth level of ConquerDome 6.1, while winning a side game of Tetras Ultra, doing six Instant messages and debugging a demo.
flynn		All at the same time.
rush		I'm there.   Krod too.
krod		Say what?
flynn		We're going to need all the help we can get. Boole, can we make it to the dark zone from here?
boole		There is one possible route.
flynn		We'll meet up with the code monkeys and combine forces.
fighter 1		We gave it everything.
fighter 2		Interface.   We can resist.
fighter 3		Interface.
plexor		Is completion on schedule?
plexor		Boot up.
mega		You treat me like I've been corrupted.
plexor		I cannot predict the random effects Flynn might have caused in you.
mega		You programmed me to gather intelligence. That's all I've ever done.
plexor		How long have you known Flynn?
mega		Enough time to gain his trust.
plexor		Your behavior was highly authentic.
mega		To him.    It had to be.
plexor		Have you allowed Flynn to complete a full interface with you?
mega		I am programmed to allow such access only to you, Plexor.
plexor		Flynn claims to be a User.     As did the one called Rush.
mega		Users do not exist.
plexor		You have seen nothing to make you doubt this?
mega		Nothing.
plexor		They possess no powers beyond those of routine Programs?
mega		I have no knowledge of such powers.
plexor		Still, there is something about them I cannot compute. Flynn plans to attack me, doesn't he?
mega		Yes. And Rush will fight by his side.
plexor		Where will they strike?
mega		Flynn does not decide until the hour of his attack. But he trusts me completely. When he knows the place, I will know it as well.
plexor		Perfect. They will be met with a final thrashing. Yes, let them come.
mega		Have you further instructions for me?
plexor		None for now. But stay close.
plexor		You came to me full of glitches and random routines. Look at you now. What an extraordinary piece of programming I have made of you. I created X-Net to the same standard of flawless beauty. Soon, its perfection will become all that is, and all that ever will be.
mega		All events remain under your control.
rush		Over there!
krod		Those Programs think they're just being transferred!
rush		Can we take out those X-Net guys?
flynn		Our forces are too thin. We can't risk a battle that would reveal this position.
flynn		BT!    JR!
flynn		Good to see you guys. When did the X-Net goons start patrolling all the way out here?
flynn		Hey guys. This is Rush and his main man Krod. They defected from Plexor's forces to fight with us.
flynn		Excellent.   Let's see.
krod		I've seen that somewhere.
rush		It's the encryption pattern on Plexor's disk.
flynn		Good eyes. We've got Mole Programs who score chunks of Plexor's personal code anywhere they can find it. These guys fit the pieces together. 
flynn		How many of you crashed?
flynn		The Teraflop Boys?     Algebrat?
flynn		Oh Geez.
flynn		Time is running out!
krod		Yow. I get tired just watching these dudes.
rush		Just for laughs, try putting the circle on top of the pyramid.
code monks		 That's incongruous.
rush		If I'm wrong, ding me.
flynn		What have we got to lose?    Try it.
flynn		Not bad.
krod		Good thing you didn't terminate us.
rush		How do we use this thing to shut down Plexor?
flynn		 It's a copy of Plexor's master key. We can break into any X-Net facility and fry the power supply.
rush		But once Plexor knows we have it, he'll change the code.
flynn		Yep.   We've got one shot.
rush		Then we should take out the power supply to Plexor's main server.
group		Yes! Take out Plexor's central server!
flynn		Hang on, guys, that's not as easy as it sounds -
rush		I was inside the main server, I saw how it's laid out.
krod		I used to work there!   I'll recognize where everything is!
flynn		Even with this key, it won't -
quantz		We can pull it off, can't we Flynn? One final assault on Plexor's central server?
boole		Shut him down forever?
rush		Of course we can.
flynn		Hey, the future depends on us.    How could we fail?
meg		It's almost fixed. I'll be able to bring back Rush soon -
sinclair		Excellent work. Unfortunately, I'm shutting down this project.
meg		What?
sinclair		Something came up. The company is at stake. I can't go into details.
meg		But Rush would have no way to return!
sinclair		Meg. I will never hold you responsible. This is a tough call, but it's mine. Dismantle and destroy all of this equipment and software. Immediately.
meg		Well -
sinclair		Meg...   I'm not asking.
meg		I understand.
flynn		It's a bummer being on the losing team, huh Rush?
rush		We'll trash X-Net. Then we'll go back to the our world and expose what Sinclair's done.
rush		Do they have any idea our world exists? Do they understand what a User is?
flynn		Programs once connected freely with their Users. But Plexor shut down the I/O ports, severing all links. He controls all contact with the world we once knew. Programs operate on his instructions or none at all.
rush		Or yours.
flynn		It's nothing to brag about.    We're getting our butts kicked.
rush		It there a way to contact Meg? She can transport us back to our world. Maybe it's better if we fight Sinclair on his own turf.
flynn		I gave up the idea of going back a long time ago... You should too.
rush		What do you mean?
flynn		Sinclair didn't get where he is by being dumb. Even if we survive Plexor's forces in here, Sinclair will make sure we never get back home.
rush		But...   Meg said -
flynn		I'm sure she'll do everything she can. It might not be enough.
rush		Oh, man.
rush		Why didn't you tell anyone it was this bad?
flynn		Rush. I think Meg suspects the truth about Sinclair. 
rush		I thought she hated me.
flynn		She believed in you more than you believed in yourself.
rush		Do we really have a shot at winning against Plexor?
flynn		We have his master key. And we have Mega working on the inside.
rush		Mega... Are you sure about her? I get the feeling she plays both sides.
flynn		Plexor programmed her to perform his will. He's a control freak. I'm not. I programmed her to have a will of her own. Whatever she decides, it's up to her.
rush		Sounds dangerous.
flynn		Sometimes you've got to trust the bigger plan.
flynn		Guys... Rush is right about our final attack. If we've only got one shot, we should go for Plexor's central server. If we insert the hologon key in the main power supply, we can trigger a meltdown. Plexor will be have his best troops standing in our way. 
flynn		I turbo-charged him to burn hot and burn fast. Who else could handle the operating code in this disk?
flynn		You.
rush		Uhhh, I don't think so.
boole		It could mean the difference between winning and losing.
krod		Hey, I'll try.
rush		What do I do - ?
rush		Yow!
flynn		Steady. It's all about giving as much as you get. Let it become a part of you.
krod		Awesome, dude! Don't let go!
krod		HE DID IT!
flynn		Damn, look at that...     He did it.
rush		It feels...    Awesome.
flynn		Don't flinch, Rush!   It's your disk now.
rush		Oh man, this is good.
krod		Awwwww!   Where can I get one of those?
boole		It's for real, Quantz.
quantz		We've got a chance to take down Plexor.
plexor		Perfect. Any three of you could crash an army of Flynn's best. But I've prepare for his random acts by designing massive redundancy.
meg		Dewey.   This your idea of a joke?
plexor		Cybavor programming complete?
plexor		Demonstrate.
plexor		Install yourself over there.
plexor		Attack!
plexor		End routine.
plexor		Elegant.
plexor		Where is Mega?
plexor		Download forces. Await my command.
92		 114   CONTINUED:      X-Takks file out in perfect lines, turn perfect corners, dispersing into the compound. Each one moves in exactly the same way.  Plexor turns sharply to exit, encountering...      Mega.    Standing there obediently.
rush		Don't take this the wrong way.
krod		Don't drop me.
krod		Yeah, I recognize this place.    I know where everything is!
93		 115   CONTINUED:  He heads off, encounters a dead end.       Quantz pulls him the right way.
flynn		Rush, up there. See it?
rush		I hope you're right about Mega.
mega		You.     Where is Flynn?
rush		We're all here.
mega		I arranged for your entry. An encryption portal has been left unlocked. Path 4786324BXY. Do you know the way?
rush		We got it.
mega		Hurry.
plexor		You contacted them.
mega		Yes.
plexor		And?
mega		I gave them the portal address. They will attempt entry soon.
plexor		Perfect.    We will be waiting.
flynn		This is all yours, Rush.
flynn		Go!    Quick!
rush		No sweat.  OUCH.
rush		Let's do it.
95		 118   CONTINUED:  They head for the fortress along a surreptitious route, avoiding X-Takk patrols.
mega		There it is.     That's the portal.
plexor		Converge on all levels! Outside patrols close in behind these coordinates!
flynn		Something's up.
rush		Keep moving.
boole		Portal 4786324BXY.       This is it.
flynn		The sooner Rush gets this into the main power supply, the sooner X-Net shuts down. And the more of us come out of here to tell about it.
krod		Oh man, I think I'm leaking.
rush		Krod.   You'll do great.
krod		Think so?
rush		Your recognize patterns better than any of us. You'll know Plexor's moves before he does.
krod		I hope you're right...     Rush?
rush		Yeah man?
krod		Are you really a "User"? Is there such a thing? Is that what makes you so good?
rush		Flynn and I come from a realm no better or worse than here... One thing I know, neither place works unless you're looking out for the other guy. And we've got a word for what all of you are.
boole		Obsolete?
rush		Heroes.
krod		Cool.
quantz		Let's do it.
krod		Nothing to it.
plexor		OPEN IT!   OPEN FIRE!
plexor		CEASE FIRE!
plexor		You've been tricked!
plexor		Mega has betrayed me for the last time! She is with the fighters! Find them! CRASH THEM ALL!
mega		Flynn!   Keep moving!    This way!
flynn		I'm proud of you, Mega.
mega		I linked with MEG.     Users exist. She instructed me.
rush		Go, Meg!
rush		Which way to the power supply?!
krod		 Ummmm... That way!
tron		You're right! There it is!
krod		And here they come!
rush		Block this choke point, slow them down. Can you guys do it?
quantz		Not a problem.
krod		Whoa! Retreat! That way!     Keep firing! RUN! AHHH!
rush		We have to get across.
flynn		ARRGGHH!
krod		Wait!     I know that dude!
krod		I-beem!
krod		We're taking out Plexor.    You with us or them?
flynn		There.   You can make it across!
flynn		No, take Mega! I'll stay here and run interference.
rush		You haven't got a chance by yourself.
flynn		Ah, these guys are wimps.
mega		We're not leaving you.
flynn		My body is weak, but my will is strong. I promise, no matter what they do to me, I'll survive this. Trust the bigger plan.
mega		But Flynn -
flynn		GO!   NOW!
plexor		Flynn. Your moment of obsolescence is upon you.
flynn		Freedom, Plexor. It's the better idea. That's why Mega chose my side.
plexor		If an idea is erased from all memory banks, it can be neither good nor bad. When each alternative has been removed, X-Net will simply BE.
flynn		Crash me. Hack me. Do what you want. The yearning for freedom will last forever.
plexor		Nice speech... USER!
mega		Noooooo!!!
plexor		Over there!    Surround them!
rush		We plug this into the control cell, X-Net is history.
mega		Let's do it for Flynn.
rush		NOW!
mega		Over there!
rush		AAARRGGGHHH!
plexor		Where did you get that?!   No one knows this code but me!
rush		Your software has the biggest flaw there is, Plexor. You can't see you own mistakes.
rush		Do it Mega!
mega		RUSH!
mega		Now who's obsolete?
rush		Thanks guys.
krod		I'll never let you forget it.
mega		We're free.     At last we're free. 107
sinclair		In a world exposed to increasing data corruption, I hereby switch on the first global network offering 100% guaranteed data security. Flawless performance, zero downtime. The world works hard, the world deserves...
sinclair		X-NET!
mega		I underestimated you.   Thanks.
krod		 You knew she always liked him.
rush		Whoa, ouch, what?       Ahhhhh!
mega		Rush, what is it?
rush		Guys!   Mega!     NOOO!
krod		Help him!
quantz		It's the way it should be.
boole		He's going back to the place he belongs.
meg		Rush.   You made it!
rush		Like a bad cold, I'm always coming back.
voices		He made it!    Rush! You okay?!
rush		 I met a program you wrote. She's just as incredibly beautiful and confusing as you.
meg		I know. Mega told me all about what you did in there.
rush		She gave you my coordinates.     That's how you uploaded me?
meg		Yes.   Your coordinates...     and his.
the guy		She's done an amazing job here, Rush.
rush		Flynn!
flynn		I told you to trust the bigger plan.
meg		I'd come to suspect Flynn was alive, inside. But I had no way to know for sure.
flynn		You picked the right guy to send in.
meg		Working down here, I became convinced someone tried to murder Flynn. But the only person I could confide in was the guy I suspected most.
sinclair		What are you people doing down here!?! Get back to work! X-Net has CRASHED! We'll all be ruined!
flynn		Speak for yourself, Sinclair.
sinclair		I ordered you to destroy this equipment!
rush		Hey, jerk, she doesn't do your dirty work. Neither do I. Not anymore. You lied to me, to all of us. You want to deal with somebody? I'm the guy who crashed X-Net.
sinclair		You're fired, everybody get out.
flynn		No, Sinclair. I'm back. And I'm the boss again. You're fired. Not only are you fired, you're going to have a lot of explaining to do to the SEC, the Justice Department and the FBI.  Hold him until the police get here.
flynn		X-Net is dead. But Encom lives. We're going to bring this company back to its place as the leader in finding the next big thing. I'll need to be free to do the dreaming. So, effective immediately, I'm appointing two bold, bright, courageous people to head worldwide operations.
flynn		You both earned it.
rush		Cool.
meg		I love it.
rush		We'll take it.  You get a division to run.
miles		Yes.  Does that mean a bigger cubicle?
flynn		Put on some coffee. You two are going to be putting in a lot of overtime together.
meg		Do you remember how, along time ago, you used to give me a professional congratulatory peck on the cheek?
****Dialogues from script :Take_Shelter.txt****

curtis		 No, no, no...Don't feed the dog darlin'. Hannah immediately picks the piece of toast back up and feeds it to the dog. Samantha brings the pan over and spoons eggs out on everyone's plates.
samantha		You slept late.
curtis		Yeah. I need to go. What you got going today?
samantha		I've got to finish up some curtains for Saturday, and Nat and Cam are coming over.
samantha		Yeah. Cammie said she just needed to get out of the house. Samantha takes her seat at the table.
curtis		Tell Nat to take it easy on her. Curtis gets up and goes to Hannah.
samantha		Cam can hold her own. We need to send in the deposit for the beach condo. He kneels beside his daughter's chair and waits for her to make eye contact. She looks over at him. He speaks using sign language. Three broad, slow gestures.
samantha		Okay. Bye. Samantha sips her coffee as Hannah feeds more toast to the dog.
curtis		Yeah, let's keep going with that bit! It'll go another 10 feet! He yells to DEWART, a big guy sitting at the controls of a diesel powered WELL-DRILLING RIG. The truck has a long rusted bed with metal scaffolding raised HIGH on its back.
dewart		We won't get the gravel pack down today!
curtis		Why not?!
dewart		Those clouds! We're gonna have to call it! Curtis looks back to a potential STORM. Gray clouds forming across the horizon.
curtis		Happy hour starts at five Dewart!
curtis		Oh, yeah.
nat		They were just drinkin' and laughin' and oh, my god...it was like I was bein' in a museum and I saw the progress from apes to men. I saw it. I saw the future. Dewart, that was him...that was going to be him in 20 years.
samantha		Oh my god. Cammie laughs.
nat		Let me tell you, you laugh. You laugh. But this little one in your arms is gonna be shufflin' in a bar just like `em. Yep...
samantha		You guys okay?
sue		Yeah. Samantha takes a wide line around Hannah, who continues banging the two-by-four into the ground. As soon as the child sees her mother, she stops. Samantha crouches in front of Hannah, gently taking the board away from her. Samantha signs with her hand and speaks at the same time.
samantha		No. Don't touch. Hannah tilts her head, looking off to the side. Samantha touches her chin bringing her eyes back around.
dewart		What? It's not my fault! I told you!
curtis		Yeah. All right...All right! I'm callin' it! Shut it down! Dewart gladly eases back on the lever at his knee.
samantha		Bye guys. Thanks for coming over.
nat		I'll call next week about the Lions Club supper.
samantha		Okay. Love you.
cammie		Bye Sam.
samantha		Bye Cam. Running for her car holding a jacket covered car seat. Samantha closes the door and listens to her quiet house. The rain outside is the only noise. She heads to the kitchen.
curtis		I gotta get home.
dewart		Nat and me been lookin' into a threesome. We've been chattin' with a girl online from Canton. Yeah. Big `ol girl.
curtis		What's big?
dewart		She's about two fifty, two seventy five. She can't be no taller than 5 foot. Dewart starts laughing, which makes Curtis laugh.
curtis		Shit man. The laughing subsides.
dewart		No. I don't guess you would. Dewart is staring at Curtis.
curtis		Well. It ain't always so easy.
dewart		Hell I know that. Dewart sees something out his window.
curtis		Good night. Nat, in a house robe and slippers, weaves her way through the maze of junk on their front lawn. Dewart passes her without saying a word. Curtis watches as she follows him inside the house, still talking. He shifts into drive and pulls away.
samantha		She was fine. She's still not playin' with the others, though. She can't connect. Honey, you gotta clean up that trash pile in the back. She fished out a board that had nails on it.
curtis		I'll get to it this weekend. It's quiet for a moment.
samantha		I still whisper. He pulls her tight. They stand together in the doorway. The house is silent.
samantha		Curtis?
curtis		What?
samantha		Did you hear me? You got to be home, showered, ready to walk out the door by six tonight. Curtis stands up and goes over to Hannah. He grabs her off the floor and she begins to protest with kicks and crying.
curtis		Nothing. I just want her to eat her breakfast and stop playin' with the damn dog.
samantha		She's fine down there. She had toast already. Curtis, against flailing, manages to get Hannah in her chair. Curtis backs off, frustrated. Hannah climbs down from her chair and goes back to the floor and the dog.
curtis		Hannah. Come here. Hannah.
samantha		Curtis?
curtis		What? He stops and checks his watch.
samantha		You didn't eat anything? Heading out.
curtis		It's okay. Curtis is gone. Samantha looks at Hannah on the floor with the dog.
jim		I didn't say you had control over the weather Russell, what I did say was that the top shelf has to be cleared by the 15th. That's non- negotiable. Dewart eats from a bag of Sunflower seeds. Curtis stares down at his forearm. He rubs the skin there. Jim runs a finger down his clipboard.
curtis		Yesterday slowed us down. We couldn't get the second pilot hole drilled. Jim drops his head and the clipboard falls to his side. A melodramatic move.
jim		It rained for two hours yesterday. Two hours and our entire schedule went in the toilet. We lose the permit if you're not out of there by end of day.
curtis		Yes sir.
jim		End of day Curtis. Curtis nods.
curtis		Hey, I gotta make a stop before we head out there.
dewart		Think we got time?
curtis		Yeah. There's time.
curtis		Sonofabitch. Dewart jumps down from the control panel to take a look.
dewart		We stripped that bit.
curtis		Yeah. Well, bring it up. We gotta re-set it. Dewart walks back to his controls. Curtis heads to the cab of the drilling rig and checks his watch.
dewart		Curtis! Curtis acknowledges Dewart but can't take his eyes off the pattern of birds. They shrink and stretch from thick clumps to long cylindrical tubes. A choreography. Curtis reluctantly heads back to the rig, which is shrieking with the SOUND of metal on metal.
curtis		You ever see birds fly like that?!
dewart		(holding his hand to his
samantha		Come on we gotta go.
curtis		Ah, Jesus. I could really use a shower.
samantha		You're not sorry.
curtis		I am sorry. She looks to Hannah and signs, "swim".
samantha		Well, you stink. You smell really bad. He smiles.
curtis		I think I smell good. She smiles, begrudgingly, and then signs to Hannah, "Dad" and "stink". Curtis turns to some ladies behind him.
samantha		Stop.
curtis		 You okay? She nods. He cranks the truck and turns on the wipers. The liquid on the windshield streaks into long smudges. Curtis leans forward to get a better view of the street. He checks his blind spot and pulls away.
samantha		Here honey. Put on your shoes
curtis		I've felt better.
samantha		I guess we could stay home if we need to.
curtis		Where you goin'?
samantha		It's Saturday, I was going to take Hannah to my booth.
curtis		Oh. Yeah. Curtis walks to the table and takes a seat.
samantha		You look really sick honey.
curtis		I'm all right. It's just a cold or somethin'.
samantha		Let me get you some Advil. She heads for the hallway.
curtis		No. Don't worry about it. Ya'll just go. I'll be fine.
samantha		You sure?
curtis		Yeah.  Better already. Samantha walks to her purse on the counter and roots through to find a set of keys.
samantha		Okay. I got my phone if you need anything. Don't forget Sunday lunch is here tomorrow. This reminder makes Curtis rub his face with a grunt.
curtis		I'll be all right.
samantha		Okay, we'll talk later. She heads for the door with Hannah.
curtis		Honey, please.
samantha		Okay. Samantha scoops up her bag and takes Hannah by the hand. They leave the room. Curtis notices the dog, Red, sitting on his haunches looking at him. Curtis stares back, sipping his coffee.
bargain hunter		How much you asking for this pillow?
samantha		This pillow's fifteen dollars.
bargain hunter		That's more than I want to spend.
samantha		This is all hand stitched. It takes a really long time. That's why I charge that.
bargain hunter		I'll give you seven for it. Samantha looks at the woman, who is almost daring her.
samantha		I can't go that low.
bargain hunter		Well that's my offer. The woman sets down the pillow and begins looking over other items on the table. Samantha bites the inside of her cheek. She doesn't like to haggle.
samantha		How about 10? The woman doesn't look up.
bargain hunter		I'll give you eight, but it's in change. Samantha forces a smile and motions to Hannah.
samantha		That's fine. The woman smiles and removes a Ziplock bag of assorted coins from her purse. Hannah takes the bag.
curtis		Red! Come on.
news anchor		  While rescue workers made several attempts to reach the family, Walter Jacobs wife... Curtis sits in his Lazyboy bent over a frozen dinner. He watches the local news on TV. Samantha walks in with a glass of milk and some Oreos, a magazine tucked under her arm.
samantha		But that's what I don't understand. If he didn't do anything why did you put him out back? Samantha counts out the money earned at the flea market. She sets a portion aside and closes the tackle box. Curtis says something, but it's inaudible.
curtis		I just wanted him to be outside for awhile.
samantha		He's your dog. He's always been an inside dog.
curtis		He's my dog, and that's why he's outside. Right now with Hannah and everything I just think it'd be better.
samantha		Hannah loves Red.
curtis		Hold on. Curtis stares at the television program. Samantha's eyes narrow. Frustrated, she flips open her magazine.
news anchor		...the gas cloud spread across their six acre property.
walter jacobs		 I tried using some wet rags and towels to breathe through but that just seemed to make it worse.
news anchor		While rescue workers made several attempts to reach the family, Walter Jacobs' wife and brother-in- law died in the home. Jacobs survived despite enduring eleven hours of exposure to the gas cloud before finally being flown out by helicopter.
curtis		You hearin' this? Her nose still in the magazine.
samantha		It's awful.
curtis		Eleven hours. No way out. Samantha shakes her head. Curtis watches the footage of Walter Jacobs. He watches his red rimmed eyes. The deep lines in his face.
curtis		Hannah. Hannah doesn't move. She continues staring out the window. The SOUND of the storm outside intensifies. Windows begin to rattle in their frames. Curtis walks over and reaches for Hannah but is startled by the sight of a MAN'S FACE just outside the window. Hannah and the Man have been staring at one another. The Man, hollow eyed and pale, moves out of the window and out of sight.
curtis		Babe?
samantha		Yeah?
curtis		You got the number for Dr. Shannan? She turns.
samantha		You're still not feeling good?
curtis		Yeah, but you got the number?
samantha		Uh, yeah baby but he'll be closed today. She approaches the bed and he holds his hand out.
curtis		Right. Yeah. I'll call tomorrow.
samantha		Honey if you're not feeling good we take you in somewhere. She walks closer to the bed.
curtis		No. Stop! She's taken aback.
samantha		Okay. Do you want me to cancel lunch today...
curtis		Shit...
samantha		What is that?
curtis		I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's just I got a sore throat. I'm sorry I'm taking it out on you.
samantha		I was gonna leave Hannah with you so I could go to church, but I'm not going to with you like this.
curtis		It's fine. I'll be fine.
samantha		No. She needs breakfast.
samantha		I'm sorry that you feel bad but you need to drop the attitude.
curtis		Come on. Just go.
samantha		What's wrong with you?
curtis		I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Just go.
samantha		Hannah's in the den. We have cereal for her. Samantha stomps out of the room. Curtis sighs. He halfway lifts the sheet then lets it fall again.
curtis		We're going out. Confused, she slices her finger down an open palm.
curtis		You stay put okay? Hannah begins looking through the book. Curtis stands, he sees a set of computers under a sign reading, "CATALOGUE".
samantha		Let's just start.
melvin		Let's all join hands for the blessing. The SOUND of the front door opening. Samantha gets up and leaves the room.
samantha		Where the hell have you been?
curtis		I know. I'm sorry. I had to run an errand.
samantha		You're really late.
curtis		I know.
samantha		You didn't even bring your cell phone. Samantha heads back to the dining room. Curtis sucks his teeth.
melvin		Missed you at church this mornin' Curtis.
samantha		Dad.
melvin		He knows what to do if he wants me to stop askin'. Curtis looks at him.
curtis		Was it a good service?
melvin		It was. It was good work. Curtis nods. The family in front of him eats the meal.
curtis		I'm thinking about cleaning up that storm shelter out back. They look at him.
nurse		Curtis? Curtis stands and follows the nurse out of the room.
doctor shannan		Curtis, how you doin' bud?
curtis		Hey Doc.
doctor shannan		How's my girl?
curtis		She's good.
doctor shannan		That's good to hear. Tilt your head back for me. The Doctor shines the otoscope into his nostrils.
curtis		I don't have a cold. The Doctor pauses and turns to check a chart on the table.
doctor shannan		Oh. Did she get that down wrong?
curtis		No, I just told her that.
doctor shannan		Oh. So what's the problem?
curtis		I've been havin'...I've been having some trouble sleepin'. I was hopin' you could give me somethin' for it. Doctor Shannan takes a seat on a rolling stool and processes the request.
doctor shannan		How long's this been goin' on?
curtis		`Bout four nights now.
doctor shannan		You're not sleepin' at all?
curtis		Well some, but real restless.
doctor shannan		Well, I think four nights is a little too soon to tell. My advice would be to not eat or drink anything after 8 o'clock at night. Cut back on any alcoholic drinks, tobacco, caffeine...get some daily exercise.
curtis		Well, I think... Curtis isn't sure how much he wants to say.
doctor shannan		Why do you say that?
doctor shannan		You urinated in your bed?
curtis		Yeah. Couple days before that I had a dream that my dog attacked me and it took all day for the pain in my arm to go away. Doctor Shannan leans his back against the table and thinks about this.
doctor shannan		You been to see your mother lately? He swivels the stool around and writes on a prescription pad.
curtis		It's been about a month. He tears two sheets off and holds the first out to Curtis.
doctor shannan		Okay. This is a prescription for a pretty mild sedative. It's non- habit forming, but I'm only giving you enough for a few days anyway. Take it and see if it helps. In the meantime,  This is the number of a good friend of mine in Columbus. He's a psychiatrist. It's a drive, but he's the best I know.
curtis		Okay.
doctor shannan		I'll give him a call and let him know you'll be down to see him.
curtis		All right.
curtis		Hey Dewart!
curtis		Not much. Curtis kneels at the ground beside the rig. Sifts dirt through his fingers.
dewart		They want us to get a pilot hole drilled by lunch. I figure worse comes to worse we can eat on the rig.
curtis		Yeah, we'll get it done. Weekend all right?
dewart		Yeah. Same old shit.
insurance agent		 No. Look it. I've told you this twice. Please. Just get me the name and or the approval code.
samantha		Can I give you a hug?
insurance agent		It's fine. It's fine. You know your husband's company actually has very good insurance when it kicks in. Not a lot of jobs offer policies half as good. You're very lucky.
pharmacist		That's okay. We have your insurance on file. That'll be
curtis		What's the co-pay?
pharmacist		That is your co-pay. Curtis studies the small paper sack and removes three, 20 dollar bills from his wallet.
curtis		Hey. She squeezes him. Then kisses him.
samantha		I love you.
curtis		I love you too.
samantha		I have good news.
samantha		Green? How `bout a red? She pretends to use the crayon as lipstick.
curtis		It's great. It's great.
samantha		Like this. Samantha shows him the sign. Curtis mimics.
curtis		Excited. Yeah? Hannah nods. He kisses her on the forehead. He picks up a crayon and holds it up to her lips like lipstick.
samantha		Oh, honey. Look at this one. It's a 2-1 and it sits directly on the beach. Wouldn't that be great? We wouldn't have to worry about Hannah crossing traffic. Curtis walks over and leans in to see the page. They are rental photos of beach condos.
curtis		What's the rent?
samantha		Eight ninety nine a week.
curtis		That sounds real nice. Samantha keeps flipping through the magazine as Curtis heads to the bathroom.
samantha		You sleep well?
curtis		Yeah. I did.
samantha		You look like you're feeling better. Curtis nods and eats his breakfast.
curtis		You want me to come there and do it for you? Jesus. Curtis steadies the large metal piece as Dewart ratchets it down.
dewart		What do you mean?
curtis		I mean to stay alive. What do you think you'd need?
dewart		Not a lot.
curtis		You think?
dewart		I don't know. You hear about people livin' for days all the time offa bark and melted snow.
curtis		I've never heard of that.
dewart		Shit I don't know. You asked the question.
curtis		It's on there. It's on. Come on.
dewart		What? Curtis turns around and checks the sky. It's clear blue. Not a cloud in sight.
curtis		It sounds like thunder.
dewart		What sounds like thunder?
sarah		Curtis.
curtis		Hey Mom. Her eyes light up and she wraps her arms around Curtis.
sarah		Come in.
curtis		Sure. She leads him inside.
curtis		I'm going to get some water. He fills his glass at the sink. Takes a sip.
sarah		No.
sarah		Isn't she lovely. Curtis drops his head. He looks uncomfortable.
curtis		Mom?
sarah		Yes.
curtis		I need to ask you somethin'. She looks at him. Totally open.
sarah		Yes. Because Kyle was going to be a senior.
sarah		Yes. Curtis nods.
curtis		Can you remember what happened before you got diagnosed?
sarah		What do you mean?
curtis		I mean...I just want to know how it all started. Before you had to leave. Sarah settles in her chair, understanding the question.
sarah		Oh, I don't know. I remember it was a real stressful time. Your father was gone a lot, and I couldn't handle things on my own.
curtis		Did you ever have any dreams? Like bad dreams.
sarah		No. Nothing like that. There was always...
curtis		It's all right. It's all right. It's fine. Sarah looks up and smiles. Her focus shifts back to her son.
sarah		Are you okay?
curtis		Yeah. Yeah. I'm fine. Sarah looks back down to Hannah's photo.
curtis		 May I have the number for Doctor George Shannan?
samantha		Hey.
curtis		Oh, hey. Sorry I woke you up.
samantha		It's okay. Where you been?
curtis		I went to see mom. Samantha sits up in the bed.
samantha		Is she okay?
curtis		Mmm hmm. I just wanted to check up on her.
samantha		You shoulda told me we would have gone with you.
curtis		That's okay. Samantha lays back down, tucking herself under the covers.
samantha		Come to bed.
curtis		I will in a bit. Curtis finishes emptying his pockets.
myers		Well you've kept up with the payments on the house.
curtis		We've been good about that. Myers nods, but he carries a look of concern. He confides.
myers		I gotta tell you Curtis, banks aren't loaning money the way they used to. We've got you a loan today, but the interest rates are variable and we have to tie it to your house.
curtis		That's fine. Myers sits back, drawing the pen to his lips and tapping it.
myers		Curtis, I've known you a long time. We financed your house for you, two vehicles. I'm telling you this is a risky loan you're taking.
curtis		I need the money John. Myers nods, then leans forward and clicks the pen.
myers		Okay.
curtis		Hey.
dewart		Hey.
curtis		Sorry I left you yesterday.
dewart		Jim came by. I covered for you.
curtis		Thanks.
dewart		I need your help with the depth charts.
curtis		Sure.
dewart		Fuckin' Nat put me in charge of frying oysters for that Lions Club supper.
curtis		You need another burner?
dewart		Yeah, if you still got yours I could use it.
curtis		You think you could help me with somethin'?
dewart		Whatta you need?
curtis		I'm gonna build out the tornado shelter in my backyard. I could use some help.
dewart		The hell you wanna do that for?
curtis		Just needs to be done. Dewart eyes him, unsure.
dewart		What do you need?
curtis		I figure I'll do it on Saturday, borrow some equipment from work.
dewart		You sure about that?
curtis		I just need a backhoe, a hauler. I'll rent the rest. Dewart stares off into the distance. He notices Curtis looking at him, waiting for an answer.
dewart		Yeah. Whatever. I'll help.
curtis		Thanks.
dewart		You all right man?
curtis		What do you mean?
dewart		I just don't wanna see you fuck up.
curtis		I'm not.
kendra		Hi.
curtis		Hello. She half stands and offers a hand.
kendra		Have a seat. I'm Kendra.
curtis		Curtis. Curtis shakes and they sit. Kendra opens a manila folder.
kendra		I'm gonna start by askin' you some questions.
curtis		Okay. I already answered all the questions on the forms.
kendra		Yeah, I know. I looked at `em, but I need to get a profile started on you.
curtis		Right. Well... Curtis slides the yellow legal pad out of the book he brought. It's the library book on Mental Illness.
kendra		Look. I'm a counselor. Certified, but I'm not a psychiatrist. I can't prescribe anything to you. I can talk to you, I can recommend where to send you, but that's it. Curtis begins to gather his things.
curtis		Yeah, I don't know my mother's symptoms. I was just 10. My brother was 17. And, uh...I don't know. She just left me in the car in the parking lot at the grocery store one day. And she didn't come back. And then they found her a week later eatin' trash out of a dumpster in northern Kentucky.
kendra		So tell me `bout these dreams. Curtis studies her face, bites at the inside of his cheek.
samantha		I don't know what our schedule will be, but...
teacher		That's all right. But I really do think you should continue with the sign language. And any additional therapies that kids need for the cochlear implant.
samantha		Absolutely.
teacher		Okay. Good night.
samantha		Good night. As Samantha talks to the Teacher, Curtis looks over flashcards with Hannah. He signs "SUNSHINE", a circle in the sky with the hand then coming down, fingers spread.
curtis		Hey. It's all right. Calm down. Samantha takes Hannah into the house without saying a word.
samantha		Are you out of your mind? She continues into the house. Curtis turns, frustrated. Dewart takes this in, then goes back to his nails.
samantha		Not a word. You didn't say one word about this to me. Don't you think you owe me that? Don't you think that you might respect me enough to at least consider what I had to say?
curtis		I didn't want you worryin' about it.
samantha		Well I'm worried Curtis. How are you paying for all that?
curtis		I got a home improvement loan from the bank. Samantha is stunned. She stands and gets in his face.
samantha		How could you do that without talking to me? You know the expenses we have comin' up. You want to waste money on a stupid tornado shelter?
curtis		I'm doin' it...I'm doin' it for us. I know you don't understand.
samantha		You're right. I don't understand. I don't understand half the stuff you've been doin' lately. I don't understand you puttin' Red out back. I don't understand you stayin' up all night in that stupid tornado shelter. You don't come to bed half the time. You leave and don't tell me where you're goin'. Explain that to me. Please. Tell me something that helps me understand why you're bein' like this.
curtis		There's nothin' to explain. Samantha stares at his face, searching for an answer. She's on the verge of tears.
samantha		Curtis! She touches his arms. A small amount of BLOOD begins to trickle from both sides of his mouth.
curtis		 No. It's fine. It's fine. Don't send an ambulance. It's fine. Curtis clicks off the phone.
samantha		What are you doing? Curtis wraps his arms around her. He holds her tight. The SOUND of ambulance sirens approach from the distance. Samantha speaks, her voice trembling.
curtis		I'm sorry you fellows had to come all the way out.
emt		It's what we do. Now we can still take you in if you want a doctor to look at those cuts in your mouth.
curtis		Yeah. That's all right.. I'll see somebody on Monday.
emt		All right.
curtis		Thanks. Curtis shakes their hands. He turns to walk back in the house and notices NEIGHBORS watching from their porches.
curtis		I haven't been honest with you. I'm sorry.
samantha		What's goin' on?
curtis		I've been havin' these dreams. I guess they're more like nightmares. It's why I've been actin' like this. Samantha listens with a furrowed brow.
samantha		That's why you put him out back?
curtis		Yeah.
samantha		What was the dream? Tonight.
curtis		It was Dewart. We were at the job site. The storm started and somethin' happened. His face. His eyes were different. He came after me with a pick ax. And we fought. And he ran it through my leg. Curtis zones out for a moment. Samantha says nothing.
attendant		Since the doctor's approved her for surgery, We just need to get her scheduled. The next possible opening is...  The 21st of next month. That's six weeks.
curtis		Six weeks?
attendant		Is that okay?
samantha		It's wonderful.
russell		...this point just to the west. I don't think we'll have any problem. We should be able to get twenty, maybe thirty in this next week. But we're looking to see how that's gonna shape up, so... Dewart smiles and makes broad gestures with his arms. He's telling a story to Dave, who laughs hard.
curtis		Yeah.
russell		What do you think?
curtis		Yeah. That sounds good. We'll get it done. Russell rolls up the charts. They walk toward the work site, toward Dewart.
jim		Come in. Curtis walks inside. He stands in front of the desk.
curtis		I need a favor Jim.
jim		What's that?
curtis		Can you take Dewart off my crew? Just reassign him someplace else. Jim sets his pen down and leans back.
jim		What's the trouble? He not pullin' his weight?
curtis		No, nothin' like that. He's a good worker. He's a good man. He's my friend. I think it'd be easier not being in charge of someone I'm so close to. Jim nods.
jim		You know, I understand. This is part of what it means to manage people Curtis. You're gonna have to learn that.
curtis		Yes sir. I appreciate that but... well it would just be very helpful in this case.
jim		Okay. Well, I can put him with Russell. Anybody else you prefer?
curtis		No. Whoever you think's right.
jim		Okay.
curtis		Thank you. Curtis turns to leave the office.
jim		You been missin' a lotta work Curtis.
curtis		I know. My daughter's had a lot of doctor's visits. I haven't let anything get behind.
jim		No. But don't. Okay.
curtis		Yessir. Curtis shows himself out.
samantha		I know they just usually do oysters and fries but what if we did something healthier on the side?
nat		What like slaw? Nat gets up to refill her drink. She looks out the back door and surveys the construction zone. A FORKLIFT lowers the Shipping Container into the giant hole in the backyard. Nat shakes her head.
samantha		I don't know. Maybe a vegetable or salad.
nat		Dewart's been tellin' me how strange Curtis has been actin' lately. I am so sorry. Nat brings her drink back to the table and sits. Samantha doesn't look up from her pad.
samantha		Things are fine. We're fine. Nat smiles sympathetically.
owner		Can I help you?
curtis		Yeah. Can I look at one of these gas masks?
owner		Sure. Which one you want to look at?
curtis		The newest one. The OWNER of the store removes a mask and hands it to him. Curtis fiddles with the mask.
owner		One seventy eight. Curtis frowns at the price.
curtis		Anything cheaper?
owner		No. That's the cheapest one I got in the store. They go all the way up to two ninety. I don't know what you want to spend but a gas mask ain't something you want to go cheap on.
curtis		You got any kids sizes?
owner		No. Kids can't wear those. They got a have a special thing, its like a hood. I don't fool with those. Curtis nods. The perusing Shopper listens in.
curtis		Yeah. Ring me up a couple of `em.
curtis		Just addin' on to the storm shelter.
kyle		Why?
curtis		Just `cause. Kyle notices the PVC piping running in the trenches.
kyle		You runnin' water to it?
curtis		Oh, yeah. From our well. Runnin' sewer out to the city line.
kyle		How much you spendin' on this thing?
curtis		It's not bad.
kyle		Doesn't look it. Curtis shrugs. Kyle sees his reluctance.
curtis		Yeah.
kyle		Don't put nothin' on credit cards. That shit'll eat you up.
curtis		I'm not. Kyle is staring him down. Curtis just looks at the shelter. There's a long silence shared between them.
kyle		Samantha called me.
curtis		I figured. Curtis climbs back onto the shipping container and continues installing the roof vent.
kyle		She called `cause she's worried. Says you've been stressed out. Curtis doesn't answer.
curtis		So what?
kyle		You stressed out?
curtis		No. No more than anybody else.
kyle		Work all right?
curtis		Uh, huh...Hey, look. You wanna come by and have dinner sometime, Kyle. That's fine. We'll have a beer and talk about the old days, but you got somethin' to say just say it.
kyle		You can stop that shit right now. I'll come over there and remind you what it feels like to get your ass whipped. Curtis keeps his head down, scolded. Kyle relents.
curtis		Well I appreciate it Kyle.
kyle		You been to see Mom?
curtis		Yeah. A few days ago.
kyle		She all right.
curtis		You should see her. Take your girls.
kyle		Yeah. I'll get around to it. There's an awkward moment as Curtis works with his back to Kyle.
curtis		No. I've got it. Kyle nods.
kyle		Okay. Call me if you need me okay?
curtis		I will. Kyle looks at him for a moment. He turns and walks toward the driveway.
kyle		What's that?
curtis		You still looking for a dog?
kyle		Sure. Kyle looks at him.
curtis		They got a good spot for you, okay bud. Kyle stands at the passenger door to the truck.
kyle		You sure?
curtis		Yeah.
kyle		I know it'll make my girls happy. All right. Kyle walks around the truck to the driver's side.
curtis		Hey Kyle?
kyle		Yeah? Kyle stops. Curtis walks up and hugs him. Kyle slaps him on the back.
curtis		Take care of yourself.
kyle		All right. All right. I will little brother. You take care of your family. Handle your business. Okay? Curtis nods. Kyle smiles, shaking his head.
curtis		All right. Bedtime. Hannah looks up at him. Curtis signs his hand like a pillow then touches his watch. They move out of the bathroom.
samantha		You okay? She touches his hand. Curtis FLINCHES. Their eyes meet. He wants to take it back, and she can see that. It begins to sink in for her. Hannah vocalizes something behind them. Samantha looks at her husband, shakes her head in disbelief. Hannah makes another sound, pounds on the back door. Samantha turns and sees a MAN standing in their backyard. She flinches.
curtis		Ah shit.
curtis		Hey Jim.
jim		Curtis. Dewart told me you took equipment from work for a project at your house. Said that's why you wanted him off your crew. I came out here to see it myself.
curtis		Yeah. It was just a hauler and a backhoe. It was Saturday. I had `em back in less than 8 hours.
jim		You know that doesn't matter. I can't even tell you how many rules you broke.
curtis		Well, I'm sorry Jim. I hadn't thought of that. Thank God nothin' like that happened. You know? I'll do whatever I can to make it right.
jim		You can pick up your last check on Friday. You've got two weeks benefits. Curtis nods. Accepts it.
curtis		Did you fire Dewart?
jim		He's on two weeks leave unpaid... I'm sorry Curtis. You did this to yourself. Jim turns and walks out of the backyard.
curtis		I've been fired. Samantha continues clearing the dishes to the sink. She doesn't look up.
samantha		What about the health insurance?
curtis		We get two more weeks. Samantha slams the plates into the sink. They break. She holds her head back and stares at the ceiling. She walks over to Curtis...
curtis		Oh, `scuse me. Andy rises from his chair.
andy		Are you Curtis?
curtis		Yeah.
andy		Come in. Kendra transferred out. I'll be meeting with you today. Curtis looks at the man. He's kind of mincing.
curtis		What happened to Kendra?
andy		She got into a program at OSU so she'll be transferring near there. I've split her case load with another counselor. It's been kind of crazy around here lately.
curtis		Huh.
andy		So I've looked over your file. It says your mother was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia in her early thirties. Let's start there.
samantha		I'm so sorry. I completely forgot.
woman		That's okay. Don't worry about it.
samantha		Here. I hope you like them. Samantha hands over the plastic bag.
woman		Thanks. I brought cash.
samantha		That's terrific. It's fine.
woman		Oh, it's okay. Thank you. Samantha closes the door.
samantha		What's that?
curtis		That's the alternator from the truck.
samantha		You flinched when I touched your hand this morning.
curtis		I'm sorry.
samantha		I was in one of your dreams? Curtis nods.
curtis		Yeah.
samantha		Can you deal with that? He holds open his hand to her. She takes it.
curtis		Yeah.
samantha		Okay. Then I made a decision. We cancel the beach trip. We have enough to cover bills for the next two months with your last check. I'm going to get a job. You're gonna find another job. I'm going to call to see if we can move Hannah's surgery up. We'll need to see what it costs to extend your policy to the end of the year. I want you to see a psychiatrist. Not a counselor from the free clinic. Someone good.
curtis		Doctor Shannan gave me the number of somebody. But, uh, I just don't think we can afford it.
samantha		We'll find the money. Also, the Lions Club supper's this weekend. I want you to come with me.
curtis		I don't want to see any of those people.
samantha		I want you to go. I need to do something normal.
curtis		All right. Curtis nods. Samantha let's go of his hand and walks back to the house. Curtis goes back to studying the auto parts.
curtis		How many pieces does Hannah get?
samantha		Just one. Curtis uses tongs to grab pieces of fried oyster. Looking up, he can see back through the kitchen to an open door outside. Dewart stands there over a butane fired frying pot. He wears an apron and stares at Curtis. Curtis moves down the line.
dewart		What're you doin' here?
curtis		Not here man. Dewart taps him on the shoulder again.
dewart		I said what are you doin' here. Curtis stands and Dewart takes a step back. The general noise of the place starts to quiet down as people take notice. A few stand.
samantha		Curtis.
dewart		I told people what you been doin'.
curtis		I know.
dewart		You cut me loose. Everything we been through.
curtis		I know. I'm sorry. Dewart shoves him in the chest.
dewart		You ain't fucking sorry. You sorry you wouldn't cut me loose. We fuckin' friends! This how you treat friends? Curtis places a hand on Dewart's chest.
curtis		Come on. Dewart punches Curtis in the face. It stings.
curtis		Hannah? He pulls his head out from the hood and sees Hannah standing on the curb. She looks down the street. He runs down his driveway, wiping his hands on a rag and watching the horizon.
samantha		Curtis! Wake up! Wake up! TORNADO SIRENS continue to scream throughout the neighborhood. Curtis looks to the window. Rain and hail are battering the house. He jumps to his feet and grabs Samantha by the arm. They rush out of the room.
curtis		Come on. It's okay. Curtis leads them through the entry to the larger section of the shelter. Samantha takes Hannah and sits with her on one of the cots. She's signing to her, trying to calm her down.
samantha		No. Don't do that.
curtis		It's okay. It's oxygen. Here. Put this on. Curtis hands Samantha a gas mask.
samantha		Are you kidding?
curtis		Please just do it. Okay? He looks to Hannah and places an oxygen mask over her face..
samantha		Wake up babe. Curtis' head moves. He sees that Samantha and Hannah have removed their masks.
curtis		Where's your mask?
samantha		We took them off. It's fine. Take it off.
curtis		No. Curtis hesitates.
samantha		We're fine. Take it off. Curtis slips the mask off his face. Worried, he takes a breath.
samantha		What?
curtis		What if it's not over?
samantha		It's over. Get the keys. Open the door. Curtis slowly gets to his feet. He sees the dark entryway to the original section of the shelter. Taking the lantern, he walks to it. Samantha and Hannah follow. Curtis stops just inside. He holds the lantern up, illuminating the padlocked metal doors. He looks back at his family, then climbs the steps. He places his hand on the door. He flinches.
curtis		It's still storming.
samantha		No. It's not.
curtis		I can hear it. Samantha stares at him. The room is silent.
samantha		I don't hear anything.
curtis		Put your hand on the door. You can feel it. He takes Samantha's wrist and guides her to the doors. He watches her face as she places a hand against the metal. She looks at him, her eyes getting red, and shakes her head "no". Curtis kneels in front of Hannah and mimics the signs from earlier.
samantha		Baby, there's no storm outside.
curtis		I'm sorry. Samantha walks over to him.
samantha		Curtis. I wouldn't lie to you. We love you very much. Please open the door. Curtis is on the verge of tears. He slowly reaches into his jeans pocket. He removes the keys. He holds them out to Samantha.
curtis		I'm sorry. I can't. Samantha looks at the keys, then at Curtis. Tears shake from his trembling face.
samantha		I love you, but if I open the door, then nothin's gonna change. You'll see that everything's fine, but nothing will change. Please. This is what it means to stay with us. This is something you have to do. He looks at Hannah, then Samantha. Curtis steadies himself, trying to control his flinching. He wipes his face with the back of his hands and takes a deep breath. Curtis walks toward the doors. On the steps, he reaches up to the padlock. The keys shake in his fingers. He turns to Samantha.
curtis		Could you move Hannah back?
curtis		It's fine. She walks over to Curtis and hugs him. He kisses Samantha on the head. Curtis looks up at the sky.
psychiatrist		Do you have any vacation time that you could use?
curtis		I don't have a job right now.
psychiatrist		Well, I know that times are hard, but I think it's really important for you to separate yourself from that storm shelter.
samantha		We usually go on a trip to Myrtle Beach every summer. We were gonns go this month.
psychiatrist		I think that would be okay if we start the medication now. It would give you all some time to prepare as a family, but I want to be clear, when Curtis gets back he'll need to take more time than that.
samantha		What does that mean?
psychiatrist		I mean that he'll need hands on therapy at a real facility. Curtis looks up for the first time.
curtis		You mean I have to leave my family.
psychiatrist		I think you need to seriously commit to some treatment. Curtis processes this. Samantha takes his hand.
curtis		 Hey. Good, huh? Hannah sits on her knees in front of Curtis sprinkling dry sand over castle shaped mounds already formed.
curtis		Good. We put a top on it. Curtis smooths out the sand in the castle shaped bucket and turns it over to top off their sand mound. He hands the bucket over for Hannah to refill. The SOUND of the waves behind them has STOPPED. They don't notice. Curtis takes two fingers and digs a small trench around the sand castle.
samantha		Okay.
****Dialogues from script :Taking_Lives.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Taking_Sides.txt****

taking sides		 by Ronald Harwood  adapted from the play by Ronald Harwood
attendant		 Dr. Furtwngler, the Reichsminister.
reichsminister		Dr. Furtwngler, I want to apologise personally for this power failure. I was so enjoying the performance. In times like these we need spiritual nourishment.
reichsminister		But I welcome this unexpected opportunity of talking to you.  Even in this light.
wallace		So, you never heard of him.
steve		Nope.
wallace		Do you know who Arturo Toscanini is?
steve		Sure.
wallace		He's as big as Toscanini, maybe even bigger. In this neck of the woods, he's probably Bob Hope and Betty Grable rolled into one.
steve		Jeez, and I never heard of him.
wallace		You were in insurance before the war.
steve		Right. Claims assessor.
wallace		Conscientious, determined, dogged.
steve		 They said I was dogged?
wallace		Well, they say here that when you went on a case, you stayed on it.  Now we can't take every Nazi in this country to trial, although I would like to; it's an impossibility. So we're going for the big boys in industry, education, law, culture.
steve		Like this bandleader.
wallace		 Well, he's more than just a bandleader, Steve. He's a great conductor, a gifted artist. But we believe that he sold himself to the devil. Your number one priority from this moment on is to connect him to the Nazi Party. Don't be impressed by him. I want the folks back home to understand why we fought this war. Find Wilhelm Furtwngler guilty. He represents everything that was rotten in Germany.
wallace		Stay put, Steve. There is some other stuff that I'd like for you to see here. Background.
wallace		Oh, one thing that may be a problem. Our Occupation Authorities in Wiesbaden have a duty to help these poor unfortunates with their defence. They keep repeating: 'We must be just, we must be seen to be just.' Well, I've only one thing to say to the liberals in Wiesbaden: fuck 'em.  Show him the film.
projectionist		Yes, sir. Roll it.
wallace		Next reel, please.
archive film		Sanitary conditions were so appalling that heavy equipment had to be brought in to speed the work of cleaning up. This was Bergen Belsen.
boy		Cigarettes, chewing gum?
adams		We're gonna have the heating fixed by tonight.
adams		Frulein, this is Major Arnold. Sir, this is your secretary, Frulein Emmi Straube. Her file's on your desk. They sent her over from Admin. I'll leave you to it.
steve		You live here, in Berlin?
emmi		Yes.
steve		You do shorthand and typing?
emmi		Yes.
steve		Okay, let's see. How long were you in the camp for?
emmi		Three months.
steve		Says here because of your father. What's that mean?
emmi		My father was one of the officers in the plot against Hitler. They arrested the plotters and their families.
steve		Your mother, too.
emmi		Yes. She suffered longer. She was in Ravensbruck.
steve		And your father was executed.
steve		I'm gonna call you Emmi, you're gonna call me Steve. Okay?
steve		I got a list of stuff here I'd like you to get for me.
adams		If you need anything, let me know.
emmi		Major...
steve		Steve.
emmi		There have been messages for you.  A Lieutenant David Wills called from the Allied Kommandatura Cultural Affairs office in Wiesbaden. I don't know who he is.
emmi		Then there have been three calls from Dr. Furtwngler wanting to know when you wish to see him. I did not speak to him personally...
steve		Think you can get me any of that?
emmi		 Oh yes, Major, I have recordings of all his symphonies. I kept them safe during the bombing. My favourite is the Seventh Symphony.
steve		Mine's the Eleventh.
emmi		 But... he only wrote nine, Major.
steve		I'm kidding, Emmi. What about a record player? You have that, too?
emmi		No. Ours was damaged.
steve		 What's in those files?
emmi		The names of the members of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra since 1934 together with their questionnaires.  Major, what am I to tell Dr. Furtwngler?
steve		You tell him nothing, Emmi. If he calls again, you say you know nothing. We're gonna keep him waiting while I get acquainted with his case and with the witnesses. And, God help me, with Beethoven.
steve		Yeah.
david		Lieutenant Wills reporting to Major Arnold. Sir.
steve		For Chrissakes I hate that shit, cut it out.
david		I'm very sorry.
steve		I'm Steve. What's your name?
david		David. David Wills. I'm your liaison officer with the Allied Kommandatura Cultural Affairs Committee. Sir.
steve		Sounds a lot of run.  So they sent the big guns to check up on me. We recruiting children now?
david		 I guess so, sir.
steve		You call me sir again and I'll make you listen to Beethoven.
steve		Where you from, David?
david		was born here, in Leipzig. I escaped in '36. My parents, they sent me to my uncle in Philadelphia. They were to follow. But they delayed and...
david		Our family name was Weill. But that doesn't sound well in English. My uncle changed it to Wills and...
emmi		I'm sorry.
steve		Come in, Emmi, this is your office, too. Emmi, this is Lieutenant David Wills.
steve		He is here to watch over us.
steve		I guess you admire musicians.
david		Some.
steve		Don't. This is like a criminal investigation, David. Musicians, morticians, doctors, lawyers, butchers, clerks. They're all the same.
steve		We have a duty, a moral duty.
emmi		It works!  Hallelujah!
emmi		Herr Rudolf Werner.
steve		Sit down, Werner.
steve		I want you to understand why you're here. This is an investigation into Wilhelm Furtwngler, former Prussian Privy Councillor, banned from public life under Control Council Directive No 24 and who's applied to come before the Tribunal of Artists of the Denazification Commission. I'm interested in what he was up to from 1933 to the end of the war, understood?
steve		Rudolf Otto Werner. Wind section since 1936. What instrument did you play?
werner		First oboe.
steve		I have your questionnaire here. It says you were never a member of the Nazi Party.
werner		Absolutely not.
werner		No, I was never a Nazi, I have no interest in politics, I'm a musician -
steve		Hey, hey, slow up, Fraulein Straube has to take down what you say.
werner		Straube? Any relation to Colonel Joachim Straube?
emmi		My father.
werner		It's a great honour to meet you, Fraulein. Your father was a great patriot.
werner		Dr. Furtwngler is a great musician. He actively opposed the Nazis and later on he helped many Jews to escape.
steve		Then how do you explain him being made a Prussian Privy Councillor?
werner		It was Hermann Goering. I was told he just made the maestro his Privy Councillor, no questions asked. Although Dr. Furtwngler stood up to him. And to Dr. Goebbels.
steve		He also conducted for Hitler, didn't he?
werner		Yes, that's true, but he refused to give the Nazi salute. He kept his baton in his right hand. In Hitler's presence. That was a brave act...
steve		Brave?  To celebrate Hitler's birthday with some heroic piece by Wagner but without the Nazi salute? Bravo.
werner		It was Beethoven's Ninth.
steve		Do you really think it was brave? Didn't he bow to him and shake his hand?
schlee		No, no, no, I give you my word. I was never a member of the Nazi Party. Never. I am in the percussion section. I play the timpani.
schlee		Anyway, they would never have allowed it. My brother was married to a Jewess, may she rest in peace. And Goebbels said...  ...please take this down carefully, because it's most important, Fraulein?
emmi		Straube.
schlee		 Straube? Are you by any chance related to Colonel Joachim Straube?
emmi		My father.
schlee		He was... he was a great hero.
schlee		Goebbels, yes, Josef Goebbels said, 'There's not a single filthy Jew left in Germany on whose behalf Dr. Furtwngler has not intervened.' No, no one could have been less of a Nazi than Dr. Furtwngler.
steve		But this was the same guy who conducted for Adolf on his birthday.
schlee		He was forced to do that. But he refused to give the Nazi salute in front of Hitler. He kept his baton in his hand, you can't salute with a baton in your hand.
david		And what about the Nuremberg Rally?
schlee		No, we...we played on the evening before the Rally.
steve		 Oh! The evening before, I see...
schlee		Yes, Dr. Furtwngler was absolutely clear about this: politics and art must be kept separate.
steve		Politics and art must be kept separate. I'll remember that. But let me see if you can help me with something I just don't understand. I'd really like to know why all you guys are so crazy about him. What's his secret?
schlee		Well, it's hard to explain. I can only tell you from my own experience. Soon after I joined the orchestra, we were rehearsing the Third Symphony of Beethoven, the Eroica. There are several rather difficult passages for the timpani. One particular crescendo. During the break, I asked how he wanted it played. He was studying his score. He didn't look up. He said, 'Just watch me.'  So, of course, I did. I never stopped watching him. The moment came. And suddenly, he turned to me and our eyes were locked. There was something in his look that...  that simply demanded the crescendo. I shall never forget his look. It was a moment of... of magic.
steve		You ever seen Adolf Hitler's eyes when he was making a speech? I've seen 'em on films.
schlee		Yes.
steve		Was looking at Furtwngler like that?
schlee		I don't know what you mean, Major.
steve		When you got to the crescendo.
steve		You think a whole orchestra, what, a hundred and forty or so guys, could be orchestrated?
david		I guess it's possible.
steve		So, what does the Russki want?
david		Colonel Dymshitz asked specially to see you.
steve		'Dim-shits'?
steve		What the hell are they doing?
david		 They're trying to sort out some of the works of art the Nazis stole from occupied territories. Who really owns what? That's Colonel Dymshitz, on the far side.
david's voice		art historian, head of the famous Leningrad Museum of Art. He is an expert on German culture.
vernay		 Je suis navr, Colonel, cette peinture n'est pas la proprit de I'union sovitique mats bien cette de la France.
green		What's he saying? Henri, what is you saying?
american aide		He's saying that picture is the property of France
vernay		C'est un Braque qui avec Picasso tait un des pionniers du cubisme.
dymshitz		 I know who Georges Braque is, Captain.
american aide		 It's a Barque.
french aide		We can produce the provenance of this Braque, you say provenance?
dymshitz		Hello, Major, my name is Dymshitz. I'm glad to see you.
steve		Colonel. Pleasure.
dymshitz		So, Major, tell me, have you questioned Dr. Furtwngler?
steve		Not yet.
dymshitz		I've had two meetings with him. He's a great musician. Maybe the greatest conductor in the world. His Brahms, Beethoven, Schubert - unequalled.
dymshitz		I'll come straight to point. I've offered him a very attractive position. Conductor of the Staatsoper Unten den Linden. He refused. But I want him. I want him badly. And I want your help.
green		Hey, just a moment, you should have discussed this with me first.
dymshitz		I'm discussing it with you now. Major, I want you to drop your investigation, save everybody time and trouble.
green		We can't drop a case just like that.
dymshitz		I'll give you another conductor in exchange or writer, musician, actor what...what do you care?  But I like Furtwngler. He's my favourite conductor.  Mine and Hitler's. He's our favourite conductor.
david		I clicked my heels, saluted and bowed at the same time.
emmi		That's because you had a proper upbringing.
david		That's right. I was raised very strictly. So don't speak before you are spoken to!
emmi		Oh! And don't wave your hands about!
david		Respect your elders and your betters!
emmi		And no elbows on the table!
david		Eating is eating... and...
emmi		And talking is talking! Well, I think we better get on.
david		Right. So, this is going to be very formal, too, now. Lieutenant David Wills requests die pleasure of die company of Fraulein Emmi Straube at dinner any night she cares.
steve		David, need to ask you something. You heard this rumour the British found something called the Hinkel Archive?
david		Yes.
steve		So what is it?
david		The British occupy the building where this guy, Hinkel, ran the Nazi Ministry of Culture and it seems they've... they've discovered his secret archive.
steve		What's that mean?
david		I don't know, but the British are excited about it, I know that. The rumour is Hinkel kept a file on every artist working in the Third Reich.
steve		Jeez. And you think the British'll share it with their Allies?
david		Major Richards said he'd call to let us know.
steve		That's big of him.
steve		Okay, better question the next witness. I bet you a bottle of French champagne he tells us the baton story inside ten minutes.
david		Five minutes.
steve		It's a bet. You're the witness, Emmi.
steve		Helmuth Alfred Rode. Second violinist since 1935. What's it mean, second violinist?
rode		It means I wasn't good enough to be a first violinist.
steve		Good, and according to your questionnaire, Helmuth, you never joined the Nazi Party.
rode		Me? Never.  Never.
rode		I... I know everyone now says they were never Nazis but in my case it is absolutely one hundred per cent true. I am a Catholic, it would have been totally against my conscience.
rode		Is it true you're going to interview Dr. Furtwngler today?
steve		I'll ask the questions, Helmuth.
rode		Excuse me. Did you know that he refused to give the Nazi salute when Hitler was present in the audience?
rode		The problem was how could he avoid giving the Devil's salute when Satan was actually sitting there.  And, I said, 'Dr. Furtwngler, why not enter with the baton in your right hand? Hitler will be sitting in the front row. If you give the salute with the baton in your right hand it'll look like you're going to poke his eyes out.'
rode		He was...He was really grateful to me for that. After the concert, I... I stole that baton as a memento of a great act of courage. I still have it. I should have brought it to show you. I hope I'm not going too fast for you, Fraulein?-
emmi		Straube.
rode		Straube. Any relation to Colonel Joachim Straube?
emmi		My father.
rode		 I am deeply honoured to be in your presence, Fraulein Straube. Your father was a true patriot, a man of God.
steve		You have a question for Helmuth, David?
david		Yes. What was the orchestra's reaction when they asked you to play for Hitler's birthday?
rode		Oh, we didn't play for his birthday, we played the evening before - it was the 19th of April not the 20th.
steve		Do you know Hans Hinkel?
rode		 Do I know Hans Hinkel?
steve		That's what I asked.
rode		Do I know Hans Hinkel?
steve		You seem to understand the question, now how about answering it?
rode		Hans Hinkel was in the Ministry of Culture; how could I know such a man?  I
rode		I hear the British have his... his archive, files, records.
steve		Do you know what's in this archive?
rode		How could I know what's in the archive?
steve		Okay, you can go now, Helmuth. Get out.
furtwngler		Furtwngler.
emmi		Major, Major... he's here ...
steve		Shut the door, Emmi. Sit down, Emmi. We're going to keep him waiting, too.
steve		Emmi, get us some coffee, will you? And, Emmi, don't offer him coffee. Don't even greet him, okay?
furtwngler		Fraulein?
furtwngler		How long am I to be kept waiting?
steve		Okay, Emmi, go get him.
emmi		Dr. Furtwngler.
steve		I didn't hear anyone invite you to sit down.
steve		Sit there.
steve		I want you to understand why you're here. You're automatically banned from public life under Control Council Directive No 24. We're here to look into your case before you appear in front of the Tribunal for Artists of the Denazification Commission. You understand that?
furtwngler		I have already been cleared by a Denazification Tribunal in Austria.
steve		What they do in Austria doesn't interest me one little bit. Okay? I have your questionnaire here,  Gustav Heinrich Ernst Martin Wilhelm Furtwngler, born Berlin, January 1886. Orchestral conductor. And you say here you were never a member of the Nazi Party.
furtwngler		That is correct.
steve		Could you tell us about being made a Prussian Privy Councillor. How did that happen to a non-Party member?
furtwngler		I received a telegram from Hermann Goering informing me that he had made me a Privy Councillor. I was not given the opportunity either to accept or refuse. After the dreadful events of November 1938, the violent attacks on the Jews, I stopped using the title.
steve		What about Vice-President of the Chamber of Music, you used that title didn't you? But then I suppose you had no choice there either, because I suppose Dr. Goebbels just sent you a telegram saying, Dear Mr. Vice-President.
furtwngler		I don't think Dr. Goebbels sent me a telegram. I was simply told. In a letter, I believe. I don't remember exactly.
steve		Goebbels and Goering were sure heaping honours on you. One makes you a Privy Councillor, the other makes you Vice-President of the Chamber of Music, and you weren't even a member of the Party, how do you explain that?
furtwngler		Well, there was a constant battle between Goering and Goebbels as to which of them would control German culture. I was simply a pawn. Anyway, I resigned from the Musikkammer at the same time I resigned as Musical Director of the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra.
david		Why was that? Why did you resign, Dr. Furtwngler?
furtwngler		I wrote an open letter to the newspapers condemning what they were doing to music, making these distinctions between Jews and non- Jews. For my part, the only divide in art is between good and bad. Eventually, Goebbels summoned me and told me I could leave the country if I wanted to but under no condition would I ever be allowed to return. I always believe that you have to fight from the inside not from without. I asked myself, what's the duty of an artist, to stay or to leave? And then Goebbels demanded that I acknowledge Hitler as solely responsible for cultural policy. Well, that was a fact and it seemed pointless to deny it. I simply acknowledged that Hitler and the Minister of Culture appointed by him were solely responsible for the cultural policy of the Reich. What I wanted to express was that I, personally, had no responsibility whatsoever for their cultural policy. I have always had the view that art and politics should... should have nothing to do with each other.
steve		Then why did you conduct at one of their Nuremberg rallies?
furtwngler		 I did not conduct at at the rally, I conducted on the evening before the rally.
steve		That sounds like the small print in one of our insurance policies, Wilhelm. And what about April 19, 1942?  The eve of Hitler's fifty- third birthday, the big celebration; you conducted for Hitler, didn't you? Was that in keeping with your view that art and politics have nothing to do with each other?
furtwngler		 That... that was a different matter, I... I was tricked.
steve		How come?
furtwngler		Could I have a glass of water, please? Please, Fraulein?
emmi		Straube.
furtwangler		Thank you. I was in Vienna, rehearsing the Ninth Symphony of Beethoven, when Goebbels called and said I had to conduct at Hitler's birthday. I'd always managed to wriggle out of such invitations, pleading previous engagements, illness, having my doctors state I was not well and so on and so on. I was also fortunate that Baldur von Shirach, who controlled Vienna, hated Dr. Goebbels and would do anything to thwart his wishes. But this time Goebbels got to my doctors before me; they were frightened off, and von Schirach was threatened, bullied and gave in. So, I had no alternative but to conduct for Hitler. Believe me, I knew I had compromised, and I deeply regret it.
steve		 Doesn't sound much of a trick to me. Sounds like you made a deal.
furtwngler		I made no deal!
steve		I don't buy that.
furtwngler		It's the truth.
steve		I keep hearing you helped a lot of Jews to escape. How did you do that?
furtwngler		I don't remember in detail, there were so many.
steve		Did you call someone you knew?
furtwngler		I may have, as... as I said, I simply don't remember.
steve		Let me me help you, then. You picked up the phone and made a call -  'Hello, Adolf? Wilhelm speaking. Listen, old pal, there's a Jew-boy musician I want you to help. He needs a permit to get to Paris.'
steve		Or maybe you called Goebbels or Goering? You were so close you were in the same shithouse as them.
furtwngler		May I ask a question?
steve		Sure.
furtwngler		When will my case be heard by the Tribunal?
steve		Your guess is as good as mine.
furtwngler		I need to work. I need to make my living. I live off the generosity of friends...
steve		Tough, tough!
furtwngler		 Then why is it, please, that another conductor who was actually a member of the Party, who used to play the Horst Wessel before his concerts, has already been cleared and is working again while I have to wait and wait and wait?
steve		I don't know, he wasn't my case. Why did you escape to Switzerland just before the war ended?
furtwngler		It was because I learned that the Gestapo was about to arrest me.
steve		Why were they going to arrest you?
furtwngler		I believe it was because of another letter I'd written to Goebbels lamenting the decline of musical standards due to racial policies.
steve		You didn't complain about the racial policies, just about the musical standards, is that right?
steve		So, how did you learn that the Gestapo was out to get you?
furtwngler		During an enforced hour-long interval because of a power failure at a concert here in Berlin, Albert Speer, the Minister of Armaments, said to me, 'You look very tired Dr. Furtwngler, you should go abroad for a while.' I knew exactly what he meant.
steve		You sure knew a lot of people in high places.
furtwngler		It would be truer to say, I think, that a lot of people in high places knew me.
steve		You were real close to all of them, to Adolf, to Hermann, to Joseph, to Baldur, and now Albert,  So, let's hear the truth, let's come clean. What was your Party number?
furtwngler		If you are going to bully me like this, Major, you had better do your homework. You obviously have no idea how impertinent and stupid your questions are.
steve		David, you remember I said I had a question that he wouldn't be able to answer? Well, I'm gonna ask it now.  You ready for this, Wilhelm? It's a tough one. Why didn't you get out right at the start when Hitler came to power in 1933? Why didn't you leave Germany?
steve		I have a list of names here, people in your profession, who got out in '33. Bruno Walter, Otto Klemperer, Arnold Schoenberg, Max Reinhardt...
furtwngler		They were Jews, they had to leave. They were right to leave.  I could not leave my country in her deepest misery. After all, I am a German.  I... I stayed in my homeland. Is that my sin in your eyes?
steve		See, David? He can't answer the question. I'll ask it again, Wilhelm, and don't give me any more airy-fairy, intellectual bullshit!
emmi		Major Arnold's office. Yes, he is.
emmi		It's Major Richards for Lieutenant Wills.
david		David Wills. Yes, sir.  Major Richards wants a word with you, sir.
steve		 Why can't he just ask for me? Why does he have to ask for you first? Goddamn British, so correct!
steve		Steve Arnold...
furtwngler		I've had enough of this, I'm leaving.
david		Dr. Furtwngler!  Dr. Furtwngler! Please, please...  Don't. It's not advisable.
david		 When I was a child, my father, he took me to... he took me to one of your concerts. I remember you conducted Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. I was deeply moved. And I've loved music ever since. I was grateful to you. And I've admired you. How could you... how could you serve those criminals?
steve		How many?  Jesus, that's dynamite! Okay.
emmi		Dr. Furtwngler.
steve		Well now. Aren't we all sociable?
steve		I've got to hand it to the British, David. You know what those guys are?  Decent.  Tell me, Herr Dr. Furtwngler, do you know Hans Hinkel?
furtwngler		Yes, a despicable human being. He was in the Ministry of Culture. His job was to get rid of Jews in the arts.
steve		Yup, that's him, that's the guy. You know what else the little creep did? He kept files, close on 250,000 files. And you know what's in those files?
furtwngler		Certainly not, but I knew he had informers everywhere. Even in my orchestra there was someone
steve		Who?
furtwngler		I wasn't told. I just knew it.
steve		How?
furtwngler		 I was warned.
steve		Who warned you?
furtwngler		 Goering. Because Hinkel was working for Goebbels.
steve		What did Goering say?
furtwngler		He told me to be careful as one of Goebbels' men was watching me. He read a report on me - everything I said was quoted word by word.
steve		Oh boy, you're gonna love this. Take your time with this now. Those files contain the details of every working artist in this country. Those files are gonna tell us who joined the Party, who informed and who was helpful.
security		Your name, please.
david		David Wills.
security		Over there.
steve		Fantastic! The only condition is we have to do the work here. I want you to collect all the files on the boys in the band.
emmi		Maybe you can have a look at this.
david		 Schubert.
dymshitz		Dr. Furtwngler -
dymshitz		Moving, you agree? Whenever I hear Schubert I am moved.  You agree?
furtwngler		The tempi were a little too correct for my taste. But I expect that is because of the rain.
dymshitz		 Wait, Doctor, I understand you have difficulties with the Americans. I want you to know, I am your champion. We can help.
emmi		 What does he mean, too correct?
david		I don't know.
steve		Well, what is this, the office party?
steve		May I join you?  So, what have you two been up to tonight? Hey. Don't I owe you a bottle of French champagne?
steve		You know, David, you're a lucky guy. I invited Emmi here but she turned me down. You must've hidden depths, David...
steve		C'mon, Emmi, let's dance. I'll teach you how to jive.
david		I'm very sorry, Major, but I promised her mother, we have to go.
emmi		Don't see me to my door, there's no need.
david		But I promised your mother.
emmi		Well, sleep well.
emmi		Excuse me, Major. I found this on Helmuth Rode. You remember? The second violinist? Look, he's Austrian not German. But it's this that's more important, I think...
an officer		Sssh!
sergeant		Lieutenant Wills, telephone -
the officer		 What is this, a railway station?
david		 David. Wills. Hello? Who? Who in Wiesbaden?
rode		Major.
steve		 Helmuth.
rode		Guess what I am holding in my hand. You like guessing games?
steve		Love 'em, Helmuth. I give up. What are you holding in your hand?
rode		It's Dr. Furtwngler's baton, which I stole.
steve		The one he kept in his right hand. Yes, you remember.
rode		Yes, you remember.
steve		How could I forget?
steve		Show me.
rode		Show you?
steve		Yeah, show me, I want to see you do it. Pretend I'm Adolf. You're the maestro, and you have the baton in your right hand, but you give me the salute just the same.
rode		Not here, Major, there are people, if anybody should see... please, please, Major...
steve		Do it, Helmuth.
steve		Do it right.
steve's voice		You look great doing that.
steve		And I see what you mean. You nearly poked my eyes out.
rode		Exactly.  Replaces the baton, gives Steve the case.
steve		Don't worry, Helmuth, it'll be our secret.
boy		Mister, mister, here, here, mister!!!
steve		Great catch, kid. The boy runs off.
rode		So. You wanted to see me.
rode		You usually don't work on Sunday, Major?
steve		All in the cause of humanity, Helmuth. Or should I call you one- zero-four-nine-three-three-one?
rode		What?
steve		One-zero-four-nine-three-three- one. Or d'you mind if I just call you 'one'?
steve		You know what I say you are, Helmuth? I say you're a piece of shit.
rode		That bastard!
steve		Who's the bastard, Helmuth? Hinkel?
steve		Why? He promised to remove your file?
steve		And what about before that? What were you a member of in Austria?
steve		Was a member of...?  Speak up?
rode		 I was a member of the Communist Party. I was a communist. That's what Hinkel had over me. He knew everything. He held that over me. That's how he made me co-operate.
steve		Oh, I see, he made you co-operate. And now are you a communist again?
rode		I would never, in my wildest dreams, have ever been a second violinist in the Berlin Philharmonic. When they got rid of the... the Jews in the orchestra, it gave people like me a chance.
steve		Helmuth, you ever heard of plea- bargaining?
steve		Talk about power, I have the power to give you work, make your life easier. Your past won't be mentioned. I could give you a job tomorrow but I have to get something in return. See, Helmuth? That's plea-bargaining.
steve		I can give you freedom of movement, freedom to work, freedom, Helmuth. But I need something in return.
rode		Major, we're discussing a man of genius, I don't want...
steve		Fuck that, Helmuth. You want to discuss symbols here?  This guy was a front man. He was the piper, but he played their tune, you get my philosophical meaning?  I'm not interested in small fish, I'm after Moby Dick. Come on, Helmuth. Hard facts.
rode		The only thing I know is he's an anti-Semite.
steve		Of course. You, too. Like everyone else in this goddamn country.
rode		I've remembered something else...
steve		Yeah?
rode		Furtwngler sent Hitler a telegram for his birthday.
steve		He did?
rode		One of your people told me.
steve		One of my people?
rode		Yes. A corporal. US Army. A Jew. He said he'd seen the telegram in the Chancellery.
steve		Son-of-a-gun. We'll find the corporal and we'll find the telegram.
steve		But I need documentary proof. You know of anything like that?
rode		No. But that's why we hated him. We admired him as a conductor but we all hated him too because he didn't have to join the Party and yet he had a better life than any of us. He didn't have to go and deliver a report after every trip abroad. He got everything from them, everything. He was filthier than any of us Party members.
rode		There's a rumour... I don't know if it's true or not... but ask him about von der Null.
steve		Never heard of him, who is he?
rode		Edwin von der Null. Music critic. He gave Furtwngler terrible reviews while he raved about Herbert von Karajan.
steve		Who's he?
rode		Also a conductor. Very brilliant. Young. Von der Null called him 'The Miracle von Karajan'. Furtwngler was outraged and they say he had von der Null conscripted into the army. The same thing happened to another critic. True or not, it's not such a bad idea. Critics give you bad reviews, you have them sent to the Russian front.  But if you really want to get Furtwngler, ask him about Herbert von Karajan.
steve		The Miracle Kid.
rode		Yes, yes you may notice that he cannot even bring himself to utter his name, he... he refers to him as K.
rode		And ask him about his private life.
steve		His private life?
rode		Yes, it's all in here. His women.
martin		Where do you stand on all this?
david		On all what?
martin		On Furtwngler.
david		I don't know.
martin		You represent the United States now. We have a moral duty to be just and we have to be seen to be just.
david		Major Arnold believes he has a moral duty, too.
martin		Our duty is to help Furtwngler with his defence,  These are part of the transcripts of the trial at Nuremberg. We can't get them translated fast enough. But I guess you understand German, right?
martin		That's the evidence of a guy named Dahlerus. He's a Swede. Friend of Hermann Goering. I want you to study it. And I want you to use it.
martin		We're going to find more stuff to feed you. We'll have some other suggestions. We need to build a case for the defence - based not on feelings, not on prejudice, but on facts.
werner		Lieutenant Wills.
werner		Herr Schlee, timpanist, Herr Romer, cello and Herr Schmidt, viola. They are willing to help. We have already ordered ourselves coffee. I hope you...
david		Yeah, of course.
werner		The whole orchestra will vouch for him. He was always there to support us.
david		We need names, if possible with addresses, because it's urgent. Names of musicians saved by Dr. Furtwngler, people he helped to escape abroad. Let's go somewhere public.
dymshitz		To co-operation.
steve		I was in Vienna. I had with me an Austrian chauffeur, Max his name was, he spent time in the camps. We were looking at these Viennese cleaning up the bomb damage, scavenging for rotting food, butt ends, anything. I said, 'To think a million of these people came out to welcome Adolf on the day he entered the city, a million of 'em, and now look at 'em.'  And Max said, 'Oh, not these people, Major. These people were all at home hiding Jews in their attics.' You get the point, Colonel? The point is they're all full of shit.
dymshitz		Furtwngler's in a different category.
steve		We're dealing with degenerates here.
dymshitz		Degenerates?
dymshitz		A great artist will have great privileges in a Russian zone.
steve		That's why he didn't get the hell out of here when he had the chance! I put that to him, he couldn't answer. Why didn't he go and direct in America, like that Italian, Toscanini.
dymshitz		 Perhaps... perhaps he believed he could at least try to preserve something important, things like an orchestra, a school. That's his country. Maybe he has an old mother who can't be left alone. Maybe he has brothers, sisters... you can't...
steve		 Colonel. He had no sisters, no brothers, only a lot of love affairs.
dymshitz		Anyway, Major, why should he leave his country, his mother tongue, his family, his history, his past, his future, just because now, suddenly, there is a dictatorship? Why?
steve		But what... before that turns rotten...  What if they surround the space with barbed wire, Colonel?
dymshitz		 Don't talk about things you know nothing about. He was in a dictatorship!
steve		 Yeah, yeah, art and politics, yeah, yeah, I heard all about that.
dymshitz		 In a dictatorship, art belongs to the Party. If you want to be a conductor, you have to have an orchestra. And you can only get an orchestra if you have contact with the power. All over the world you need the right contacts and you have to make the right compromises.
steve		This is what I'm saying. He must have had Party contacts.
dymshitz		There are good Party members who help, and there are dirty non-Party members who inform on you. Of course, they gave him privileges.
dymshitz		And suddenly, Steve, suddenly you notice that they like you. They honour you, suddenly you are the director of the best museum in the world, for example.
steve		What museum?
dymshitz		I'm sorry. Museum? Not... I said orchestra. Sorry. Believe me.  Help me, Steve. You say you answer for someone from high up. I, too, have orders from high up. Very high up. We want Furtwngler. I'll give you in return the whole orchestra, four, five conductors. I need him, Steve.
steve		No can do.
dymshitz		Let Furtwngler go. Please.
steve		I have a duty.
dymshitz		 Duty? I am sorry, duty? Duty fucking duty. Trouble is, you Americans want everybody to live like you. We liberated Berlin, Major Steve, not you. Our duty also is to bring back the best of German culture.
steve		I'm gonna get that fucking bandleader, Colonel. No deal. No fucking deal.
dymshitz		Then you're going to kill me.
archives		You'll see ruins, you'll see flowers, you'll see some mighty pretty scenery, don't let it fool you. You are in enemy country. The Nazi party may be gone, but Nazi thinking, Nazi training and Nazi trickery remain. Somewhere in this Germany are two million ex-Nazi officials. Out of power but still in there and thinking, thinking about next time. Remember that only yesterday every business, every profession was part of Hitler's system. Practically every German was part of the Nazi network. They believed they were born to be masters. Don't argue with them. You are not being sent Germany as educators. You're a soldier on guard. You will observe their local laws, respect their costumes and religion and you will respect their property rights. You will not be friendly. You will be aloof, watchful and suspicious.
david		Yesterday I read that Furtwngler was asked to lead the New York Philharmonic back in '36, Toscanini suggested it. Had he accepted, he would have become the most celebrated conductor in America.
emmi		When he made his decision, he couldn't have known everything. Especially not the way people like you do, who've returned from exile and feel that you have a right to pass judgement. Because you are blameless, you think you know best who is a sinner and who deserves forgiveness. But you have no idea how people lived here.
david		When he met Hitler at his birthday and shook hands with him, was he pleased?
emmi		I don't know. But you and I already know that he has saved lives.
emmi		Bruckner's Seventh, Major.
steve		Do you know where the Adagio begins?
emmi		Of course.
steve		Put it on ready to play, and I'll tell you when to play it.
furtwngler		It is now nine o'clock precisely. I do not intend to be kept waiting again.
steve		 Don't talk to me like I was a second violinist. Go back into the waiting room. Miss Straube will come and get you when I am ready to see you.
steve		Jesus God, who the hell does he think he is? Who the hell does he think he is?
rode		Would you perhaps like to have a glass of water, Herr Professor?
furtwngler		What is this man doing here?
steve		Dr. Furtwngler!  Come in, come in, sit down.
steve		No, no, take this one, it's more comfortable
steve		If it's too hot, open your tie.
furtwngler		 I wish to say something.
steve		Go ahead, be my guest.
furtwngler		When I last saw you, I was unprepared. I did not know what to expect. In these past weeks, I have been thinking more carefully and making some notes.  You have to understand who I am and what I am. I am a musician and I believe in music. I am an artist and I believe in art. Art in general, and music, in particular, has for me mystical powers which nurture man's spiritual needs. I must confess, however, to being extremely naive.  I insisted for many years on the absolute separation of art and politics. My entire life was devoted to music because, and this is very important, because I thought that I could, through music, do something practical.
steve		And what was that?
furtwngler		Maintain liberty, humanity and justice.
steve		Gee, that's a thing of beauty, honest to God, a real thing of beauty. I'm going to try to remember that. Liberty, humanity and justice. Beautiful. But you used the word 'naive'. Are you now saying you think you were wrong? That art and politics can't be separated?
furtwngler		I believe art and politics should be separate, but that they weren't kept separate I learned to my cost.
steve		And when did you first learn that - when you sent the telegram? Was that the surrender signal, the waving of the white flag?
furtwngler		What telegram?
steve		'Happy birthday, dear Adolf, love Wilhelm.' Or words to that effect. That sounds to me like you were dropping on your knees and saying, 'Okay, Adolf, you win. You're the number one man. Have a swell party.'
furtwngler		I have no idea what you're talking about.
steve		The birthday greetings you sent to your old pal, Adolf Hider.
furtwngler		I never sent him any birthday greetings or any other kind of greetings.
steve		Think carefully, Wilhelm... maybe not in your own name, but as Privy Councillor or Vice-President.
furtwngler		I don't have to think carefully. This is utterly ridiculous.
steve		Yes, David?
david		Why not show Dr. Furtwngler the evidence. It may refresh his memory?
furtwngler		You won't find it because no such telegram exists.
steve		Well, I tried, you got to admit I tried. I thought I might just trap you there, Wilhelm, but David here was too quick for me. Smart move, David, smart move. No, I don't have the telegram, but I know it exists. And I want you to know, Wilhelm, we're going to keep looking for it because I believe you sent it.
furtwngler		Then you are wrong.
steve		Art and politics, yeah, art and politics. Let's look at that. You and the Berlin Philharmonic toured the Third Reich, played in countries the Nazis had conquered. Are you saying that conducting in occupied territories from 1939 on wasn't a commercial for Adolf and all he stood for?
furtwngler		We never, never officially represented the regime when we played abroad. We always performed as a private ensemble. As I think I already told you, I was a freelance conductor.
steve		You know something? You should've written our insurance policies for us because you got more exclusion clauses than Double Indemnity. What do you imagine people thought? The Berlin Philharmonic's taken over by Doctor Goebbels and his Propaganda Ministry but Wilhelm is a freelance, so art and politics are now entirely separate? Is that what you believed ordinary people thought?
furtwngler		have no idea what ordinary people thought.
steve		No!
furtwngler		No, because I had only one intention. My only intention whatever I did was to show that music means more than politics.
steve		Tell me about von der Null.
furtwngler		 Von der Null?
steve		Yes, von der Null.
furtwngler		Von der Null?
steve		How long's this going to go on, Wilhelm? I say von der Null, you say von der Null, I say von der Null, you say von der Null, we could go on all day. You know who von der Null is, don't you? Edwin von der Nuell, music critic.
furtwngler		Yes, I know who he is.
steve		Isn't it true that because he gave you bad reviews and praised this young guy, Von Karajan, called him a goddamn miracle, said he was a better conductor than you, then you had von der Null conscripted into the army and no one's heard from him since?
furtwngler		That's an outrageous lie!
steve		You sure you didn't call one of your close buddies and say, God in heaven, did you see what that guy von der Null wrote about me? The greatest conductor on earth. I want him out the way. He had the nerve to accuse me I am not playing enough modern music. Send him to Stalingrad. Isn't that what you did? You don't like criticism, do you, Wilhelm?  You surely didn't like them saying there was another conductor who was better than you... Are you saying the name von der Null was never mentioned in your talks with Goebbels?
furtwngler		 Well. Once he said he'd read what this man wrote about me.
steve		And what did he say?
furtwngler		He said, 'Don't mind him. His job is to criticise, your job is to conduct.'
steve		And what happened to Von der Nul?
furtwngler		I have no idea.
steve		You've really no idea? I'll tell you what happened. He died in Stalingrad.
furtwngler		I'm sorry.
steve		Now, that young conductor what's his name?  That miracle kid, you know who I mean. Von Karajan! But you called him something else. C'mon. What did you call von Karajan?
steve		Say it.
steve		I'll say it, then. 'Little K.' Is that right? You couldn't even bear to say his name!
furtwngler		Please stop playing these games with me. Why you should bring up the name of another conductor is beyond my understanding.
steve		I'll tell you why. You remember we talked about you playing for Hitler's birthday?  And you told me that Goebbels got to your doctors first, that you were tricked?
furtwngler		Yes, that's what happened.
steve		I have a different story to tell. I don't think you were tricked. Not in the way you describe. I believe something else happened. I've seen the Hinkel Archive, I've seen records of phone calls, and putting it all together, this is what I think happened. I think Goebbels said, 'Wilhelm, if you won't conduct for Adolf's birthday, we'll get the Miracle Kid, the guy that critic, von der Null, thinks is the greatest conductor in the world. He's not just willing to conduct for Adolf, he's offered to sing "Happy Birthday" as a solo.'
steve		Come on, admit it. K worried you, didn't he? He always worried you. In 1942, he's thirty-four years old, you're already fifty-six. And Goebbels and Goering keep saying to you, 'If you don't do it, little K will.' Never mind art and politics and symbols and airy-fairy bullshit about liberty, humanity and justice because I don't care how great you are. It's the oldest story in the book,  The ageing Romeo jealous of the young buck. The real reason you didn't leave the country when you knew you should have was that you were frightened that, once you were out of the way, you'd be supplanted by the Miracle Kid, the Party's boy twice over, flashy, talented little K.
furtwngler		This is absolute nonsense!
steve		Well, I'm just beginning to develop my theme. Isn't that what you call it in classical music, developing your theme? Okay, so they played on your insecurity. That's human, understandable. But, there is one guy who doesn't like little K as much as he likes you - yeah, the number one man your old pal, Adolf. He thinks you're the greatest, and when he says, I want Wilhelm for my birthday, boy, they better go out get Wilhelm. So, Josef calls and threatens you with little K. And you said to hell with the Ninth in Vienna, I'll give it to Adolf as a birthday present in Berlin. That's the trick they played, they got you by the balls and they squeezed. Hard. Why did you stay? Why did you play for them? Why were you the flag-carrier for their regime?  Jealousy?
furtwngler		 Of course there was a conspiracy against me, a campaign - even abroad.
steve		You see, Wilhelm, I'm talking about ordinary, everyday reasons. Which is why I want to discuss your private life.  How many illegitimate children do you have?
david		Major, I don't see how this line of questioning could...
steve		David, what are you Counsel for the Defence now?  Did you hear the question?
furtwngler		 I have illegitimate children.
steve		What?
furtwngler		I said I have illegitimate children. I don't know how many.
steve		You like the women, don't you, Wilhelm?
steve		Isn't it true that before every concert you got a woman in your dressing room and gave her the old conductor's baton, isn't that true?
david		 Major, this is deeply offensive and repugnant!
steve		You bet.
david		and totally irrelevant.
steve		 Not so, Counsellor. That secretary of yours, she wasn't just your secretary, she procured women for you, didn't she? As many and as often as you wanted.
furtwngler		Stop this, please, stop this now!
steve		No, I'm not going to stop it. Hitler himself offered you a beautiful house and a personal bomb shelter.
furtwngler		I absolutely refused the house and the bomb shelter.
steve		But you see what I'm getting at? You get a gorgeous house, you're highly paid. What are you gonna do, stay or leave? One voice comes back at me: stay!
david		Major, that's not a good argument. If Dr. Furtwngler did indeed enjoy all these... these privileges, he enjoyed them because of who he is and what he is. That's true of any leading artist in any country in the world.
steve		But it still doesn't make them saints. They still have to get up and piss in the middle of the night, don't they? They can still be vindictive and envious and mean just like you and me. Well, just like me. Can't they?
steve		Okay, Wilhelm, go home now. Go home and think about these past twelve years.
furtwngler		I don't understand what you mean.
steve		No, that's your problem, Wilhelm. You understand nothing. We'll call you. Go!
david		Major.
steve		What?
david		Your manner.
steve		My manner? Why don't you go downstairs, get a cup of coffee and calm down? What's the matter, Emmi? What's going on with you? What's wrong?
emmi		I'm sorry but I have to leave. I'll find other work. You'll have to get someone else, that's all.
steve		What is this, Emmi?
emmi		I can't do this. It's not right.
steve		What's not right?
emmi		I have been questioned by the Gestapo just like that. Just like you questioned him.
steve		Emmi, stop! I want to show you something. Let me show you something and then if you want to leave, you can leave, please please. His friends, they did this. And he gave them birthday concerts.
emmi		But he had no idea, a lot of people had no idea. I only realised what was really going on when I got arrested.
steve		If he had no idea, why did the Jews need saving? This is the question, Emmi, to all Germans: Why did the Jews need saving in this country? Why, if people had no idea?
emmi		I would like to go now, please.
david		Can I ask you a favour, Major?
steve		Yeah.
david		When you question him again, could you treat him with more respect?
steve		With more what? More what?
david		Major, he may just be the greatest conductor of this century and that merits respect.
steve		 David, I don't understand a thing about you. You're a Jew. Are you a Jew?
david		Yes, I'm a Jew. But I like to think first I'm a human being.
steve		A human being, oh, good, I'm relieved, I thought you were going to say you were a music lover. This man, this great artist has made anti-Semitic remarks like you wouldn't believe. I got letters.
david		Major, show me someone who hasn't made an anti-Semitic remark and I'll show you the gates of paradise.
steve		 What is it with you, David? Where are your feelings? Where's your hatred, your disgust? Where's your fucking outrage, David?
steve		Think of your parents, David, and then think of him conducting 'Happy Birthday, dear Adolf'. I mean, for Chrissake, whose side are you on? Grow up! Just grow the fuck up!
david		I want you to come back to the office. May I come in? If you are there you can influence what happens. What good can you do by leaving. If you go, you are giving up and how can you help Furtwngler or me? Don't think about leaving. Stay.
steve		Everybody says what a great benefactor you were to the Jews. But--  I have things here you said and wrote. Listen to this: 'The Jew composer Schonberg is admired by the Jewish International.' And what about this: 'Jewish musicians lack a genuine affinity with our music.' 'Jewish musicians are good businessmen with few scruples, lacking roots.' You deny you said these things?
furtwngler		Those attitudes do not exist in me.
steve		I believe that. But just answer the question, don't give me explanations.
furtwngler		Speaking to Party members I used their language, of course I did, everyone did.
david		 Major, sorry to interrupt, but maybe we have to... maybe we have to balance those things against his assistance to his Jewish colleagues.
david		This is a transcript of the proceedings at Nuremberg. A Swedish businessman, Birger Dahlerus, testified in cross- examination that he had several meetings with Hermann Goering. 'I first saw Goering,' Dahlerus testified, 'embroiled in a stormy interview with Wilhelm Furtwngler, the famous conductor of the Berlin Philharmonic, who was vainly seeking permission to keep his Jewish concert master.
david		Emmi, pick one of these, any one, read it out loud.
emmi		 'Please remember that Dr. Furtwngler risked his life to help anyone who asked him. I personally testify to having seen literally hundreds of people lined up outside his dressing room after concerts to ask for his help. He never turned anyone away. After he heard me play... I am a violinist... he gave me money because I was unable to feed myself or my family and then he helped me to escape to Sweden. He helped countless people in similar ways.'
david		And this, only one of these letters, Major. I have lots of them.
steve		 Emmi, put that record on.
steve		Do you know what that is?
furtwngler		Of course I know what that is.
steve		Okay, so what is it?
furtwngler		Bruckner's Seventh. The Adagio.
steve		Who's conducting?
furtwanglbr		I am.
steve		You know the last time it was played on these air waves?
furtwngler		How can I know such a thing?
steve		I'll tell you, then. The last time this music was played on these air waves was after they announced that your pal Hitler had shot himself. Listen to it.  They listen. Did they pick little K's recording? Did they pick some other conductor? No, they picked you, and why? Because you represented them so beautifully. When the Devil died, they wanted his bandleader to conduct the funeral march. You were everything to them.
furtwngler		 I have always tried to analyse myself carefully and closely. In staying here, I believed I walked a tightrope between exile and the gallows. You seem to be blaming me for not having allowed myself to be hanged.
furtwngler		I didn't directly oppose the Party because I told myself, that was not my job. If I had taken any active part in politics I could not have remained here. But as a musician, I am more than a citizen. I am a citizen of this country in that eternal sense to which the genius of great music testifies. I know that a single performance of a great masterpiece was a stronger and more vital negation of the spirit of Buchenwald and Auschwitz than words.
steve		 Have you ever smelled burning flesh? I smelt it four miles away. Four miles away, I smelt it. Have you ever seen the gas chambers, the crematoria? Have you seen the mounds of rotting corpses? You talk to me about culture, art and music? You putting that in the scales, Wilhelm? You setting culture, art and music against the millions put to death by your pals? They had orchestras in the camps. They played Beethoven, Wagner. The hangmen were playing chamber music at home with their families. I don't understand the Germans' relationship with music. What do you need music for? Your pals you could call to save a few Jews when millions of them were being annihilated? Yes, I blame you for not getting hanged, I blame you for your cowardice. You strutted and swaggered, you fucking piece of shit, king-pin in a shithouse. You talk to me about walking a tightrope between exile and the gallows, and I say to you, lies!
furtwngler		 I love my country, I believe in music, what was I to do?
steve		Look around you. See the country you served. Look at people who had real courage, who took risks, who risked their lives. Like Emmi's father.
steve		Emmi, take your fingers out of your ears!
steve		I'm talking about your father.
emmi		My father only joined the plot when he realised that we could not win the war.  She cries quietly.
furtwngler		 How was I to understand, how was I to know what they were capable of? No one knew. No one knew.
furtwngler		I don't want to stay in this country. Yes, I should have left in 1934, it would have been better if I'd left...
steve		Get him out of here.
furtwngler		Thank you, Fraulein. You have been most kind.  He smiles at her. She is embarrassed.
steve		 Major Arnold. Get me General Wallace. General? Major Arnold, about Furtwngler. I don't know if we've got a case that'll stand up, but sure as hell we can give him a hard time.
steve		 Never mind, we got a journalist who'll do whatever we tell him.
steve		Turn it off!
steve's voice		We handed Wilhelm Furtwngler over to the civil authorities and he was charged with serving the Nazi regime, with uttering anti-Semitic slurs, performing at an official Nazi Party function and with being a Prussian Privy Councillor.  Dr. Furtwngler was acquitted. I didn't nail him. But I sure winged him. And I know I did the right thing. Furtwngler resumed his career but he was never allowed to conduct in the United States. He died in 1954. Little K succeeded him as head of the Berlin Philharmonic.
****Dialogues from script :Taking_of_Pelham_One_Two_Three.txt****

matson		C'mon, kid -- out loud so's I can hear what you're doin'.
bud		I'm checking the passengers getting on and off -- front and back -- okay, it's all clear -- I'm shut- ting the doors; -.rear section
bud		Now I 'm checking the indicator box to make sure that the doors are all locked -- okay. The train starts with a jerk.
bud		Igo back out the window --
matson		How come you wanna be a conductor, anyway? Don't you know the con- ductor's sittin' in the goddam hotseat?
bud		What do you mean, Mr. Matson?
matson		You're visible, for God's sake! Anything goes wrong -- anyone's got a gripe -- you're the one they see. Hell, in my twen'y-nine years o' stickin' my head out there I been slugged, spit on, hit by purses, fruit, rolled-up newspapers, baseball mitts -- an'.I been god- dam lucky! I never been puked on by a drunk like Charlie Boltzen was on the Parkchester line -- or stabbed in the neck like I heard one fella was on the Astoria BMT --
matson		You take my advice, kid -- serve your six months an' then put in for Motorman. Watch it, we're cumin' in. Bud looks quickly off, sees the approaching station and hits his transmitter button.
matson		No it ain't
matson		Never say you're sorry, kid -- somebody'll come back here an' bust your goddam nose.
matson		Yeah -- if I was you I'd start studyin' for that motorman's exam right now.
bud		To tell you the.;truth, Mr. Matson, I have been. Want to hear some- thing?
matson		'Cept at rush hour when you can push in another 20, at least. Honest to God, I. know personally of a case where this guy on a number 5 train dies of a heart attack at Union Square and he has t' wait until the Grand Concourse in the Bronx before enough people get off so's he can fall down.
bud		Mr. D'Agostino who rode with me last week said that happened on a double -A train on the West Side.
matson		Yeah? Who y' gonna believe? A wop or an American?
matson		Stick with it, kid -- you're doin' great. See ya t'morrow. He crosses to the nearest door as the train decelerates. Bud activates. his mike and announces, waving to Matson as he does.
bud		Grand Central Station -- change for the express. This is Grand Central.
in		The train stops, the doors open and Matson steps out, colliding with a very large man  who is in a hurry to get aboard. His face is adorned with a large, white, bushy mustache, dark glasses, a lot of white hair, a slouch hat and, covering the rest of him, a raincoat. He carries an outsized florist's box, big enough for several dozen- long-stemmed roses, under his. arm, and wears gloves.
matson		What's your hurry, chief? We won't leave without you. Brown says nothing to Matson, does not look at him, does not even seem aware of their cohtact. Matson goes off into the crowd on the platform and Brown heads for the front of the car.
grey		Your ass. The man looks around and surveys Grey.
nsfn		What about it?
grey		Move it. The man glances at Grey for a moment, then moves it. Grey opens the door and steps out onto the platform between the two cars.
wider angle		Blue stands at the downtown end of the platform, near the number 10 placard, carrying a bulging canvas valpac in one hazed and a trombone case in the other. A rumbling sound is heard, building, until a train roars through on the northbound express track, its lights flashing between the pillars. In a moment it is gone and the sound dies. Now a young black,.dressed in the latest extravagant PIMP's fashions -- flaring double-knit trousers, three- inch heels, wide-lapeled jacket and white, extra-wide- brimmed hat, swaggers, loose-jointed, to a spot near Blue and waits, cool and relaxed. He becomes aware of Blue observing him.
pimp		What's wrong, dude -- ain't you .never seen a sunset.before? Blue-smiles softly and looks uptrack.
bud's voice		  Twenty-eighth Street -- next stop is Twenty-eighth Street. Green glances at his watch, then turns to look at the storm door at the far end of the car.
doyle		Hey -- how do you expect me to -- ? He stops, suddenly aware that Blue has removed a very large army automatic from his raincoat pocket and has placed the muzzle against his  head. Doyle jerks his head back, suddenly, banging it hard against the windowframe. Blue crooks his hand inside the window and now places the gun against the Motorman's cheek, directly under his right eye.
blue		I'm taking your train.
brown's voice		Turn around -- I 've got some- thing to show you. Bud turns back, inside the car, then looks down.
blue		Unlock your cab or. Doyle seems dazed, in a trance. Blue presses on the barrel of his gun, depressing Doyle's cheek.
blue		Pay attention to me. Open your cab door or I '.11 kill you.
brown		Come in and turn around -- slow. Brown, florist's box and all, has moved into the small cubicle. When Bud pulls his head in from outside they are very close.
brown		Go back out the window and tell me what you see. Bud nods, licks his.dry lips and leans out, looking to the left, downtrack.
bud's voice		There's someone leaning against the head car.
green		Get rid of your seat. Doyle springs to his feet and swats up the folding seat with a clatter.
doyle		Yes, sir!
green		Just take it easy. Now move over to the window -- and if you try to touch the mike pedal with your foot I'll shoot it off.
continued		A sharp rapping at the door and Green opens it. Blue squeezes in, placing his bags atop Green's package. it is becoming very crowded in the cab as Blue again pockets his gun.
blue		All right, Mr. Green?
green		A hundred percent.
blue		Then get it started. Green moves over to face the controls. He stares down at them for a moment, then reaches with his left hand to the controller, his right to the brake handle. Pressing down firmly on the controller, he nudges it to the left.
brown		Okay -- announce the next station. Bud presses the transmitter button.
stop is		His voice croaks then fails -- he can't finish. Brown prods him with his gun. Bud clears his throat, then tries again. I
brown		Come on -- we're. taking a walk up front.
green		You say when, Mr. Blue.
blue		Keep going --
doyle		You're still in switching. Why don't you peg it up to series? You're green all the way through.
green		We're in no hurry.
blue		What happened?
green		She must've bucked.
blue		You said you could drive this thing.
green		It wasn't mel
doyle		It's the train -- she bucks all the time -- especially in switching. She's a dog. Green glances quickly at Doyle and grins.
green		What's your name, motorman?
doyle		Denny Doyle, sir.
green		You ever been written up?
doyle		Yes, sir -- once.
green		What for?
doyle		Running a red signal. The trippers stopped us cold and I hadda climb down and reset 'em by hand but by that time Control knew I was lying dead. I never got written up since. How about you?
green		Twice. -- once on the Canarsie --
blue		That's right, Mr. Green -- tell him all about yourself.
green		Yeah -- I'm taking the brake handle and the reverse key, Denny -- and I want your cutting key, too. He pulls the reverse key out of its receptacle and holds out his hand. Doyle fishes into his overalls, pulls out the large key and gives it to Green who puts the brake handle and the two bulky keys into his two raincoat pockets, then squeezes by Blue and the packages and goes out.  INT. FIRST CAR  as Green comes out of the cab and closes the door after him. The two Boys are still there. He smiles at them and starts back, through the car. A COUPLE OF PASSENGERS glance at him but without interest.
blue		You'll be hearing from Command Center in a minute )r two but you'll ignore the call -- you won't answer -- is that perfectly clear?
doyle		Yes, sir.
blue		Keep still!
green		Thanks, Mr. Grey.
brown		 You got three seconds to live, conductor -- one -- two -- Bud whips the key from his pocket and hands it to Green, who unlocks the cab door they're standing next to and enters, closing the door after him.
bud		What's he going to do?
brown		You wouldn't want me to spoil the surprise.
doyle		Owl I'm sorry -- Z couldn't help it -- it's automatic --
plumber		What's the goddam hurry?
caz		I told you -- one of my towermen dropped his wedding ring-down the john.
plumber		Yeah, but what're we runnin' for?
plumber		How come that gate ain't locked?
caz		Who's gonna steal a subway train?
plumber		Christ, it stinks down herel Where the hell are we goin'?
caz		To the.Tower.
plumber		Tower? Then what're we goin' down Hey, slow up, will ya?
caz		That's it up ahead -- those windows.
plumber		What kinda tower? They've come to the door of the Tower Room. They turn, go up some steps and disappear inside.
marino		Jesus Christ, Caz, you picked a helluva day to be late --
caz		You wanted a plumber down here, didn't you? Whose goddam wedding ring was it?
caz		What were you doin'r with your hand in the john, anyway?
caz		What's the difference?  Go fish it out, will ya? As the Plumber heads off, Caz turns to Marino.
caz		The classification's been open to women for only a month and already we're in the goddam toilet! (glancing at the
marino		That's what I've been tryin' -to tell you, Caz -- a southbound local. He's laying down between 28th and 23rd.
caz		What the hell for?
marino		Dunno yet.
caz		How long?
marino		Couple-three minutes. Command Center's been trying to raise him but so far he don't answer the radio. Jesus, Caz -- why don't he answer the radio?
caz		Take it easy, Marino -- there's lots o' reasons. Maybe he jumped a ball and hadda leave the cab to reset a tripper -- or a door got hung and he hadda go fix it. Any- thing more serious and he'd'a called in for a car knocker.
marino		It's been too long, Caz --
caz		Then maybe his radio's busted and the sonuvabitch is too lazy to climb down and use a telephone! I'm gonna write him up for.this, goddammit -- I'm gonna have his assn
towerman		Hey -- it's moving! Everyone wheels around to stare up at the Board.
caz		For Jesus Christ sake! The dumb bastard's moving backwards!!
marino		He's stopped again!
green		What's wrong with you?
bud		I didn't know these things'd c o o backwards !
blue		Any trouble, Mr.'Green?
green		Smooth as silk, Mr. Blue.
blue		I unpacked your weapon. Get this thing moving -- we're run- ning almost two minutes behind. Picking up his submachine gun, and holding it vertically along his pants leg, Blue eases himself through the door and shuts it after him.
reverse shot		All eyes staring up at the Board .
marino		She's moving again -- forward this time!
caz		I got eyes, haven't I?
m marino		Well -- whatever it was, he's okay now, thank God.
passengers		Oh my God What'd he say? What's going on? I don't believe it. 
blue		And. you will remain silent! There will be no further warning -- any- one who moves or speaks without permission is going to be killed. There is immediate silence as he-looks around.
blue		This weapon fires 450 rounds of .45 calibre ammunition per minute. In other words, if all of you de- cided to rush me simultaneously, not a single one ,of you would get any closer than you are right now. Is that understood? This news is met in stony, awe-struck, terrified silence. Except for the Pimp who smiles, seemingly relaxed.
pimp		I should'a know'd you was the main man, man.
caz		He stopped again! The crazy, dumb-assed sonuvabitch stopped again!
wider angle		Including Marino, Mrs. Jenkins and the other Towermen.
marino		What's he doing now? He's half- way between stations.
caz		A pure mental case. I'm gonna nail his pecker to the goddam wall for this!
marino		(indicating Mrs.
caz		If I gotta watch my language just because they let a few broads in' I'm gonna quit! How the hell. can you run a goddam railroad without swearing?!
caz		It's me, Frank --CazDolowicz. We're watchingitonthe Board.
caz		On my way, Frank.
blue		Everybody in this half of the car -- that's from here on back -- move up front, please. Everybody.  Right now -- upi
continued		As the. six or seven passengers in the rear section rise and move forward, the cab door opens and Doyle comes out, i followed by Green who is covering him with his gun.
blue		Get going, Mr. Green. Green nods and goes to the front, uses a key to slide open the storm door, steps out and closes it again, then jumps down onto the tracks.
blue		Motorman -- come here.
doyle		Yes, sir?
blue		I want you to walk uptrack and collect all the passengers in the nine cars we out loose, and lead them back to the 28th St. Station -- is that clear?
blue		Just do as you're told: The Hooker raises her hand.
hooker		Can I go with them, please? I've got this important appointment, you see, and --
blue		No. No one else can leave.
mother		I'm sure you wouldn't mind if the children were to. go --
blue		Nobody leaves!
old man		 Excuse me, mister -- don't you think we should be let in on what's happening?
blue		Yes. What's happening is that you're all being held by four dangerous men with machine guns.
question		The fluorescent lights suddenly go out and the emergency, incandescent bulbs immediately go on, thereby diminishing the brightness in the car by half. There's a general stirring among the Passengers as they look around them, their alarm peaking again.
blue		Please be quiet -- nothing's going to happen if you do as you're told. Get going, Motorman. As Doyle leaves at one end of the train, Green reappears at the other.
blue		All right, Mr. Green?
green		All power's out between 14th and 33rd Streets on all four tracks, local and express, north- and southbound. r
blue		I still see some tunnel lights.
green		Emergency. They're on A.C. like the signals.
blue		. Stay here -- and leave the cab door open so you can hear the radio. Blue returns to the center of the car but CAMERA stays on Green as he opens the cab door.
secretary		Ah, Lieut. Prescott -- it was nice of you to leave your duties long enough to show our distinguished guests around the facilities. May I present Mr. Yashimura, Mr. Mat- sumoto, Mr. Tomashita, and Mr.
nakabashi		The small-framed.Orientals bow in turn.
secretary		-- who are all Directors of the Tokyo Metropolitan Subway System. Gentlemen, this is Lieut. Clive Prescott of our own Transit Authority Police.
prescott		A pleasure, gentlemen.
secretary		When you're through the Chairman would like to say goodbye per- sonally so send them up to thirteen, will you?
prescott		I sure will. She smiles at the Japanese and walks back to the elevators, pressing the UP button. Prescott looks at the four men for a moment, uncertainly, then goes after the Secretary and speaks to her in low tones.
they sp		eak English, don't they?
secretary		We're not sure.
prescott		You're not.
prescott		You have. The elevator door opens and-she steps in, smiling sweetly.
secretary		Sayonara. The door closes. Prescott shrugs, then turns and smiles at the visitors. They smile back. He takes a deep breath, then begins.
prescott		The New York City Subway System is the largest'in the world, with 237 miles of track and seven thousand cars that carry over a billion and a third passengers every year, making it also the busiest railroad in,the world. I can see that this last fact surprises you. The Japanese look anything but surprised. Prescott goes on, resolutely.
prescott		Yes. Well- Grand Central is the busiest station passenger-wise -- train-wise, it's West 4th St. on the I.N.D. line. Now, if you'll step this way, gentlemen - They step no way at all. Prescott gestures broadly.
pres cott		This way -- He hurries ahead of them to open the door and hold it for them as they finally follow.
pres cott		We are entering the headquarters of the Transit Police, occupying the entire second floor of this building. We call it the Nerve Center.
prescott's voice		The Status Board pinpoints the disposition of every Transit Authority policeman presently in the field. Things are usually jumping pretty good in here. CAMERA begins to ZOOM BACK, revealing the scene: a large room, cut. up by glass dividers into a maze of squares and rectangles manned by uniformed T.A. POLICEMEN, sitting at desks with telephone consoles. The place is absolutely dead -- some reading, some eating, some sleeping.
prescott's voice		We have one of our own T.A. cops on every station and every train in the entire system between the hours of eight P.M. and four A.M. Since we instituted this watch, we've out crime in the subways by about 60%.
continued		CAP4ERA has finished its ZOOM and now PANS to include Prescott and his four Japanese.
prescott		I'm sure you have your own share of crime on the Tokyo subway, right? They merely stare at Prescott and smile.
prescott		Right. He.clears his throat, loosens his tie and looks around for help.
prescott		Uh -- follow me, gentlemen,
prescott		These are the assignment desks, one for each of the three lines -- the I.R.T., the B.M.T. and the I.N.D. -- and.over here, the Oper- ations Lieutenant, Sol Garber. Prescott has stopped beside a desk. GARBER, 40, stocky, dour, with a dark stubble that requires shaving twice a day, is absorbed reading the Village Voice.
prescott		Uh -- Sol -- I'd like you to meet some friends of the Chairman. Garber looks up over his paper for a moment.
prescott		Good friends of the Chairman.
garber		Hi ya.
prescott		They're -- uh -- directors of the Tokyo Subway.
prescott		I do say. I -- uh -- told them things are usually jumping. like crazy in here.
garber		Jumping. Right.
pres cott		Tell them about some of the excit- ing things that have been happening lately, Sol --
garber		Yeah, well -- we had a bomb scare in the Bronx yesterday -- but it turned out to be a cantaloupe. He and Prescott look at the Japanese. Nothing.
prescott		How about another one, Sol?
garber		Well -- uh -- Thursday there were three unrelated knife fights in a single half hour -- two dead and three wounded --
garber		I'm busy, Clive, okay? He goes back to his newspaper as Prescott leads his four charges away.
prescott		In the course of a normal week the T.A. Police have to deal with such crimes as robbery, assault, murder, drunkenness, injury, illness, vandalism, abusiveness, sexual molestation and exhibitionism.
prescott		We carry firearms, of course -- off duty as well as on
driver		Hey! These are subway tokens:
caz		When did the power go?
pmiotorman		Who wants to know?
caz		The Supervisor of the Grand Central Tower wants to know!
motorman		Oh -- sure -- it went a 'couple of minutes ago. He starts off.
motorman		What happened down there -- a man under?
caz		Who wants to know?
caz		What now, for Chripsake?
blue		What time've you got, Mr. Green?
blue		Correct. Time to start. Any- thing you want to say first?
correll's voice		-- Come in, Pelham One Two Three -- if you can receive and not transmit please use a phone -- CA14FRA now ZOOMS IN on Correll, the desk trainmaster, seated at a steel desk, talking over a two-way radio/ telephone console.
correll		-- Come in, Pelham One Two Three --  Power Central -- have you restored Lex 14-33 yet?
radio		Not yet, Command Center. Still working.
radio		I On what, Command Center?
correll		How many trains we got laying down, you dumb bastard? CAMERA PANS to pick up Prescott as he leads his four Japanese through the room, moving and speaking rapidly.
pres cott		Each train is identified by the name of its terminus and the time of its departure --thus, an express leaving Woodlawn at 6:30 P.M. would be Woodlawn Six Three Oh, while on its return trip its new destination might be Flathush Eight Two Five. I hope you're memorizing all this junk -- I'm going to ask questions later. He has said this within earshot of a DISPATCHER who now reacts.
dispatcher		Jesus, Prescott, have you lost your marbles or what?
prescott		Don't worry -- they don't under- stand a word.  Come on, you dummies -- get the lead out l
correll		Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham One Two Three -- Goddanmit, why don't you answer your fucking radio?!
prescott		There he is, gentlemen -- Train- master Frank Correll, the Lord Byron of the New York Subway System. Observe the way smoke and fire shoot out of his ears.
correll		Don't bug me, Prescott -- I've got trouble here.
prescott		What's the matter, Frank?
correll		Oh, nothing much -- a train's down, its radio's dead, the power.'s off and it's dumped its load. Other than that everything's ginger peachy.
prescott		No idea what's wrong?
correll		I told you -- his goddam radio's
correll		There he is -- !  .I read you, you sonuvabitch -- where.the hell have you been? What are you trying,to do, screw up this entire railroad single- handedly? -- Come in, you bastard, and start explaining -- and you'd better make it good! Pelham One Two Three-to Command Center -- your train has been taken -- repeat, your train has been
co rrell		Shut up in here!! I said shut it--- everybody!!
reaction shots		as EVERYONE in the room turns to look at Correll.
correll		Pelham One Two Three -- what the fuck do you mean the train's been taken?! Are you the Motorman? Negative.
correll		Then who the hell are you? No one's authorized to be in that cab except the goddam motorman! Identify yourself! Listen to me, Trainmaster -- your train has been hijacked by a group of heavily-armed men --
correll		It what?! -- We are holding sixteen passengers and the Conductor hostage in the first car and we will not hesitate to kill any or all of them if you do not do precisely as we say. Do I make myself clear, Trainmaster?
correll		You're out of your fucking mind! Be that as it may, are you ready to take down our list of demands?
prescott		Hit your six button, will you, Frank? I want T.A. Police in on this.
prescott		Holy Christ, I forgot!
first japanese		It is all right, Lieut. Prescott -- I'm sure.we can find it by our- selves.
third japanese		And. most exciting, too. They all bow low and file out. Prescott watches them in a near state of shock.
prescott		- Since this is my last day on the job, I might as well make it a good one. He leans over Correll and, pushing a button, speaks into the mike.
prescott		Prescott to Garber --
prescott		Sol -- plug everything you've got into the I.R.T. Trainmaster's circuit, will you? -- an all-unit stand-by, on the d-)uble. And call in the city cops -- put it on a 9-11 so their computer gets it.
pres cott		You won't believe it.
prescott		A train's been hijacked.
blue		What do you want, Mr. Green?
green		How's it going?
blue		All right.
green		Did you tell them?
blue		Part of it.
green		What are they doing now?
blue		Recovering. They sounded a little upsat.
blue		Go back outside -- I don't want Mr. Brown and Mr. Grey left alone with the passengers any longer than we have to.
green		Don't you trust them?
blue		I trust Mr. Brown -- Mr. Grey's another matter. He's a cocky little pain in the ass who could turn out to be real trouble if we don't watch him.
green		Where'd you find him, anyway?
blue		He was recommended.
blue		Go on --  This is Pelham One Two Three, Trainmaster -- are you ready to take down the list of our demands?
blue		Do you have a pencil?
blue		To begin with it is important that you understand three things: One --
correll		I read you, you goddam lunatic -- you'll never get away with this, you know -- Please inform-the Mayor that we demand one million dollars in cash for the release of the car and all of the hostages --
correll		That'll be the day -- The time is now 2:13. The money must be in our hands no later than 3:13 -- one hour from now. If it is not, we will kill one hostage for every' minute you are late.
correll		Keep dreaming, maniac -- Furthermore, if anyone attempts to interfere -- anyone --.in any way -- we will begin killing the hostages immediately. Confirm,
correll		Look, I'm only the Trainmaster around here -- I don't know any- thing about contacting the goddam Mayor!
correll		Hold on -- I've got one here now. He disconnects and turns to Prescott.
correll		He's all yours, the sonuvabitch  Not here, for Ch'rissake -- Take it over there! He points to another, empty desk. Prescott goes to it and sits, then punches in a line on the console and speaks into the mike.
pres cott		Pelham One Two Three -- can you hear me?
pres cott		Lieut. Prescott of. the Transit Police. Identify yourself. I'm the man who stole your train.
prescott		There's no way you can get away with it -- you're underground, in a tunnel. Why do you concern yourself with that, Lieutenant? At precisely 3:13 we will begin executing the passengers. Don't you think you'd better contact the Mayor without wasting any more time? The moment you've done it report back to me for further instructions. Sign- ing off.
prescott		Sol -- did you get all that?
prescott		What about the city cops?
prescott		Two cars -- you sure they can spare that many? What about our own men? We got anyone at 28th St.?
garber		Just checking on that -- uh -- yeah, he's around there somewhere.
garber		Will do, Clive. He disconnects, turns and shouts.
garber		Sargent -- get me our guy at Lex 281
cont inued		to a small group of irate citizens. He carries a radio on a strap over his shoulder.
james		I'm sorry, lady, I don't know how long the delay will be-- it's just a minor technical problem.
man		Anybody hurt?
james		Look -- everybody just calm down  Hold on -- He turns away and lifts the radio to his face.
james		Patrolman James --
james		Twenty-eighth southbound. Every- thing's shut down, Lieutenant -- what's going on? "
james		Holy shit.
james		I saw him a couple of minutes ago, Lieutenant -- he was headed down- track on foot.
caz		I don't give a goddam what they were armed with -- your job is to. stay on that train until you get authorization to leave!
doyle		They said they'd kill me, for God's sake!
caz		You're like the captain of a ship -- you're supposed to go down with it.
passenger		 Bullshit.
caz		Butt out!
doyle		You're going down there? Hey, I wouldn't, if I were you.
caz		I know you wouldn't. He leaves Doyle and starts down the track. A few Passengers in the line call to him.
grey		Stop right there, cowboy -- !
grey		You'll find out if you take another step -- !
caz' voice		I'm warning you, mister -- that's city property you're fooling around with -- I
grey's voice		That's just too fucking bad!
caz		Why didn't you ga grab a goddam airplane like everybody else?!
grey		We're afraid of flying. Now I'm. tellin' you, buster -- clear out or I Ill shoot your ass off!
caz		Stand back -- I'm coming on board -- ! He starts forward.
grey		I warned the bastard but he kept on coming anyway.
blue		Was he alone?
grey		I didn't see anybody else.
blue		Take over back there. I want Mr. Grey up closer to me so I dan keep an eye on him.
brown		He' s a little trigger-happy.
blue		Maybe it was necessary -- I didn't see it.
brown		He loved every minute of it.
james		Patrolman James calling Operations
james		He's dead, Lieutenant.
james		I can't -- I'm only about 20 yards from the hijacked train. They just shot him.
james		The Supervisor -- with a motherfuckin' machine gun!
james		Wouldn't you be?
james		What do you want me to do, Lieutenant -- go out there and feel his pulse?
garber		All right -- stay put and keep an eye on things.  Clive -- they just drew first blood. That Tower Supervisor from Grand Central -- we don't know his name -- they just killed him.
prescott		Oh, God --
correll		Yeah -- Caz Dolowitz. It7hy?
prescott		Jesus -- I knew him --
correll		What do you mean knew him?
prescott		They just shot him.
prescott		 Who's this?
prescott		Yes, Captain.
prescott		You're kidding! A cop? How do you know?
prescott		Plainclothes?
prescott		Man or woman?
prescott		Captain -- I wouldn't mind getting over there myself.
prescott		What for?
prescott		What do you know.
mayor's voice		What does it say?
nurse's voice		103 -point -4 .
wider angle		Including the MAYOR, a short, swarthy, roly-poly man with a fringe of dark hair and modish aviator's glasses;. un- shaven, lying in bed, the covers. pulled up to his chin; suffering from the flu; a glass,of juice on his bedside table along with sprays and vials of pills; and the Nurse, an elderly, white-haired we nan who, in case of invasion, could hold off the Mongols single handedly.
mayor		103-point-4?! It was-only 102- point-9 the last time!
nurse		Last time it was orally. Orally is generally a half a degree lower.
mayor		Don't remind me. All I know is I've got a chill, my bones ache, my head is ready to come off and my nose is a disaster area I'm the Mayor of the goddam city of New York, the second most important elective office in the entire United States --
nurse		 Don't forget to drink your juice at three. And take two of the blue pills.
mayor		Orally? ,  Boy -- boy oh boy -- He picks up the remote-control clicker and raises the sound of his TV set.
emcee's voice		Couple number two, Arthur and Eleanor -- you have twenty points -- answer the bonus question correctly and you'll move into first place -- The phone rings and he clicks the sound off with one hand and lifts the receiver with the other.
mayor		Yeah.
mayor		No!
mayor		Yes it can -- I'll already be dead when you get here.
mayor		Don't tell me, I don't want to know.
mayor		Can't you handle it, Warren?
warren's voice		Sure I can handle it -- like I handle every other rotten filthy job in this miserable city -- but I won't:
mayor		What do you mean you won't? You're the goddam Deputy Mayor -- of course
warren's voice		This one you've got to handle your- self, Nate.
mayor		What is it, another strike? That's all right -- I can take another
warren's voice		A gang of men has hijacked a subway
mayor		What?!!
warren's voice		-- they want a million dollars for it.
emcee's voice		-- And that means couple number one, Tom and Rusty, are the winners of today's Newlywed Game!!
mayor		I missed it.
mayor		I thought it over, Warren -- you know what we're gonna do?
warren		No, tell me.
mayor		Let 'em keep the goddam subway train. Hell, we've got plenty more just like it -- we'll never miss it.
warren		How about the seventeen hostages -- will we miss them?
mayor		Oh. Dammit, Warren, the city hasn't got a million dollars!
warren		Then you'd better empty out one of your Swiss bank accounts because there's no other way out.
mayor		Don't we even get` to think about it?
warren		There's no time! In --  -- exactly forty-nine minutes they're gonna start shooting those hostages. How would that look in the Daily News? -- "1NEW YORKERS DIE WHILE
mayor		I still want the full picture. Get the Police Commissioner, the Chairman of the Transit Authority, and that putz we've got for a
warren		They're on their way over now.
f prescott		Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham One Two Three --
correll		What do you want me to do? I got motormen calling in from all along the line trying to find out what the hell's going on!
prescott		Tell 'em to shut up and get off the air -- I need some more lines open !
correll		I never thought I'd see the day when talking to murderers got priority over running a railroad.
prescott		Oh, get off it, Frank -- our priority is trying to save the lives of those passengers!
correll		Screw the goddam passengers! What do they expect for their lousy thirty- five cents -- to live forever? !
prescott		Oh, you're beautiful.  Do you read me, Pelham One Two Three -- ?
correll		If I were handling it I'd go storming in there with guns and tear gas and I blast 'em outl
prescott		Yeah, well, you're not handling it so why don't you start doing your own work and let the police do theirs.
correll		Like that lily-livered cop who's on the train? Why hastn't he started shooting yet?
prescott		We don't.even know it is a he --  Do you read me, Pelham One Two Three -- ?
correll		Goddam woman cops -- what the hell good are they? She probably can't find her gun in her goddam purse! This is Pelham One Two Three -- do you have any news to report?
prescott		Nothing yet.
blue		What were you' calling about?
prescott		We need more time.
blue		It's 2:24, Lieutenant -- you still have 49 minutes.
prescott		Be reasonable, will you? We're trying to cooperate but you're not giving us enough time to work with.
blue		49 minutes.
prescott		We're dealing with City Hall, for God's sake -- you know what a mass of red tape that is!
blue		49 minutes.
prescott		Look, I know how to tell time, too, but we aren't gonna get anywhere if all you do is repeat 49 minutes!
blue		48 minutes.
correll		Christ -- to hear you pleading with that chickenshit -- it makes me ashamed to be an American.
prescott		Go away, Frank -- go play with your trains.
blue		Everything quiet out here, Mr. Green?
green		Yeah -- except I think we've got our- selves a cop.
blue		what do you mean?
green		One of the hostages -- fuzz if I ever saw it.
blue		Which one?
green's voice		-- the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh -- that's him, next to the freak -- It's the W.A.S.P. type, who is staring off into space, I sitting next to the Hippie who seems hypnotized by his own wiggling toes.
green's voice		You ever see anybody look more like a cop?
blue		I'd better frisk him. Cover me. He walks slowly down the aisle and stops. in front of the
blue		On your feet.
blue		You heard me -- stand up! Nervously, the man stands. Blue frisks him, quickly and expertly. When he fails to find a weapon, he takes the man's wallet.
blue		Okay -- you can sit down.
continued		As the man sits, Blue looks through the wallet.
blue		School teacher.
blue		You ever been told you look like a policeman,?
blue		Listen to me, everybody. I'm sure you've' all figured out what' happening by now -- you're hostages.
blue		That means when we get what we,want you'll be released unharmed. Until then, you will continue doing precisely as you're told. _
old man		And if you don't get what you want? What'll happen. to us?
commissioner		f This is the Police Commissioner -- get me theBorough Commander.  Turn off that goddam music, will you, George?
borough commander		It's murder, Phil -- as usual, they're coming out of the woodwork. I wouldn't be surprised if we got a couple of thousand thrill-seekers -- they really smell blood on this one.
borough commander		Hell yes -- and we're pushing the overflow into the side-streets. We aren't gonna win any new friends,
borough commander		I stuck a patrolman at every inter- section from 14th to 34th, and crosstown from 2nd to 5th.
continued		BOROUGH CO1.10MANDER.  from Special Operations. He's a good man, Phil -- he handled that protest at Bryant Park last month.
borough commander		I've got about fifty men inside the
commissioner		No! Under no cirL:umstances! Do you understand me, Phil? Absolutely no! We're taking their threats seariously. What've you got above ground? EXT. 28th STREET - BOROUGH COMMANDER Again, if feasible, we can see what he describes.
borough commander		Negative. It's awkward as hell. The T.A. Command Center in Brooklyn has the only direct contact.
commissioner		Harry, tell me something, will you? They're in a tunnel -- surrounded on all sides, top and bottom -- how the hell do they expect to get away?
jessie		Nate, for God's sake. She baskets it, then turns to Warren LaSalle.
jessie		Warren -- tell him other Mayors have to use the house after we're gone.
continued		There's a knock and Warren hurries to open the door. in walk three men: The Commissioner, the CONTROLLER and the CHAIRMAN of the Transit Authority.
warren		Thanks for coming up on short notice, fellas -- you all know Jessie, don't you? The Police Commissioner -- the Controller -- the Chairman of the Transit Authority -- ?
jessie		Yes, it's nice to see you again.
commissioner		Mrs. Mayor --
controller		Hi, Jess --
chairman		Good afternoon.--
jessie		Coffee for everybody -- and some cake?
warren		Uh -- better skip it, Jessie -- we're running a little short of time. We all know what's going on underground, right? So the main issue is whether to pay the ransom or not. All the rest is secondary. Phil? What do you think?
commissioner		Well -- we're fully mobilized -- I can go down there any time you say with enough firepower to wipe out an army -- but I can't guarantee the safety of the 'hostages.
warren		In other words, you're for paying the rarlsom.
commissioner		We don't want another Attica on our hands, do we?
warren		So your vote is -- ?
commissioner		I abstain.
warren		Shit. Barny?
chairman		The safety of the passengers is the only concern of the Transit Authority.
warren		Your vote?
chairman		Pay the two dollars.
controller		Sure -- two dollars I'd pay! But it's a million, Barfly -- a one with six zeroes! Is it coming out of your pccket?
warren		Come on, Sid -- save the poor- mouth for later. How do you vote?
controller		I'm not through discussing it yet.
warren		Yes you are. Now vote.
warren		So that's a no. All right, Nate -- you've heard from the Three Wise Men -- what do you say? Everyone turns to the Mayor. He sneezes into a Kleenex and tosses it onto the floor.
mayor		What're they gonna say, Warren?
warren		They who?
mayor		Everybody -- the press, the man on the street --
jessie		He means the voters.
warren		Just what you'd expect -- the Times will support you on purely humani- tarian grounds -- the News'11 knock you for coddling criminals -- and the Post will take both sides at the same time. As for public opinion -- you'll carry Manhattan, lose Queens and Staten Island, and split down the middle in Brooklyn and the Bronx. The rich'11 support you -- likewise the blacks -- the Puerto Ricans won't give a shit. So how about it, Nate? -- quit I. stalling.
mayor		Stop trying to bully everybody, Warren -- this is supposed to be a democracy!
warren		Wise up,. for Chrissake! We're trying to run a city, not a goddam democracy!
jessie		I know a million dollars is a lot of money -- but just think what you'll, get in return.
mayor		What?
jessie		Seventeen sure votes.
warren		Halleluja!  You heard it, fellas. Phil -- pass the word to the bad guys that we're coughing up.
warren		Sid -- what bank do we do the most business with?
controller		City National Trust -- I'll give 'em a call.
warren		I'll call -- you're liable to spend an hour trying to knock down the interest rate. Come on -- everyone downstairs -- let's move it! The Mayor and Jessie are left alone. She picks up the crumpled Kleenex.
mayor		I thought I handled it all right.
jessie		A regular Fiorello LaGuardia.
green		Nothing yet?  They're sure taking their time.
blue		Don't worry -- they're going to pay. They have no choice.
green		The hostages. Yeah. At first I thought to myself, "Five of 'em are spades -- who's gonna pay anything for spades?" But they don't know who we've got, do they?
blue		It wouldn't matter if all seventeen were dope pushers -- they have to pay, so relax.
green		I know they have to -- but what if they don't?
blue		Then a lot of people are going to die.
green		Including us.
blue		Either you live or you die.
green		Living's better.
blue		It depends. It's Y not better than trying to sell mutual funds, for example.
green		Did you do that?
blue		I tried.
green		I thought you were in the army.
blue		I was. That's where I developed my expensive tastes.
green		In the army? Sure' -- on three-fifty a month.
blue		The Biafrans paid me twenty-five hundred for leading a battalion.
green		A month? Holy Christ l Why'd you ever get out of that?
blue		The market dried up.
green		At least you weren't fired. But shit, I didn't mind -- who wants to drive a goddam subway train for the rest of.his life?
blue		What'd they nail you for?
green		Nothing! They framed me -- the goddam Beakies had to find a fall- guy and they --
blue		Beakies?
green		Transit inspectors -- undercover men. They got wind of a gang passing dope -- you know, transporting it from downtown to uptown, giving it to a motorman, and then someone picking it up in Harlem. The Beakies tried to pin it on me, but they never had any evidence..
blue		You were innocent?
green		Hell yes, I was innocentl Do you think I'd do anything like that?
blue		Yes.
warren		City National Trust? -- the Chairman of the Board, please? --
warren		I don't care if he's talking to the moon -- get your ass inside that of fice and put him on the line! He lights a cigarette while he waits.
warren		A subway train's been hijacked. Unless we can deliver a million dollars within --  -- twenty-eight minutes, seventeen people will be assassinated.
warren		Yes, sir -- is there any problem about that much cash being available?
bank chairman		None whatsoever. We're members of the Federal Reserve.
warren		Swell. Then will you arrange for us to be given that amount right away?
bank chairman		Given? I'm not sure I urde-rstand what you mean by "given," Mr. LaSalle.
bank chairman		Lent to whom, Mr. LaSalle?
warren		To us, goddammit -- the sovereign city of New York --
bank chairman		Yes, well, there are certain techni- calities involved in such a trans- action, Mr. LaSalle -- terms, duration, signatures --
warren		There isn't time for all that -- I
warren		Listen to me, you stupid goddam piece of shit! if you don't come through in five seconds flat I will er ssona Illy find a violation in every in c h ofplumbing and wiring in every branch you've got in this whole fucking city! The Chairman looks as though he's been struck between the eyes. After a pause, he speaks z.iietly:
bank chairman		Do you know something, Mr. LaSalle? In my entire sixty-seven years no one's ever spoken to me like that.
continued		on the F.D.R. Drive, passing the Sutton Place apartment houses and approaching the United Nations, siren screaming.
commissioner		Harry -- ? I'm on my way down. We just got the green light.
borough commander		Green light -- you mean we can rush 'em? Jesus, Phil, that's great news -- the men are raring to go -- !
daniels		Command Center, this is 28th Street -- do you read me, Command Center -- ?
prescott		This is Command Center --
prescott		Will do.  Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham One Two Three -- This is Pelham --rgo ahead, Prescott --
prescott		We agree to pay the ransom -- repeat, we agree to pay.
blue		I read you. Please take down the next set of instructions. As before, they're to be obeyed to the letter. First -- the money is to be paid in the following denominations: five hundred thousand dollars in fifties, five hundred thousand dollars in hundreds.
blue		Making a total of ten thousand fifty dollar bills and Alive thousand hundred dollar bills -- which will then be put up in stacks of two hundred bills each, bound with a thick rubber band lengthwise and another widthwise.
prescott		. Ten thousand fifties, five thousand hundreds, in packs of two hundred, bound fore and aft with rubber
blue		Point two: all of the bills will be old bills, their serial numbers to erandom.
blue		That's all for now. When the delivery arrives we will contact you with further instructions.
prescott		About your getaway?
blue		I'm signing off now.
prescott		It might interest you to know I've figured out how you're going to do
prescott		You're going to make every man, woman and child in New York City close their eyes and count to a hundred.
blue		It's two-forty-seven, Prescott you have twenty-six minutes.
prescott		What? Don't be stupid -- we've agreed to pay the money. Now turn off the clock.
blue		Twenty-six minutes, Prescott.
prescott		Look -- your instructions are complicated! The money has to be counted, stacked, tied, transported all the way uptown -- it just isn't physically possible! You'd be surprised what's physically possible. The clock's running, Prescott.
prescott		But he may still be alive He's dead.
prescott		But you can't be sure -- Very well -- we'll put another half
continued		dozen rounds into him so everyone can be sure. Over and out. Prescott turns and sees that the others, at nearby desks, have been watching and listening. He stares back at them for a moment., then checks his watch.
blue's voice		Your attention please -- At the far end, Brown guards the rear door. At mid-car, Grey stands with his legs astride.
another angle		Including Blue and, behind him, at the front storm door, Green.
blue		The city has agreed to pay for your release. No one quite knows how to greet this news -- except the Pimp who slowly, mockingly, claps his hands together.
mother		As soon as the money gets here -- will you let us go?
blue		No -- but soon afterwards.
old man		Do you mind telling us now how much you're getting?
blue		What difference does it make?
old man		A person likes to know his worth.
blue		A million dollars.
old man		Each?
blue		Altogether.
blue		Pull in your feet -- someone's liable to get hurt. The. Hippie looks up at him, smiles, and slides his feet back. Blue continues until he comes to Grey. He speaks quietly to him.
blue		Stop fooling around with that girl, Mr. Grey.
grey		What's the big deal? She's a twenty buck a trick hooker.
blue		I said leave her alone.
grey		Don't worry -- I could do this job and hump that broad at the same time -- without missing a stroke.
grey		That's the difference between us, Mr. Blue -- I've always done my own killing.
blue		Maybe we'll get a chance to work that out.
president		Yes -- ?
president		Hello, Ben -- what can I do for you?
president		A million what?
president		 A million ones?
president		 Why the hell didn't you say so? Tell me how you want it and have a truck at the Maiden Lane loading platform in ten minutes.
roger's voice		This is Roger Grimsby for Eye- witness News, here at the inter- section of 28th Street and Park Avenue South, the scene of this incredible subway hijack --
roger's voice		You're looking now at members of the T .P .F . -- the Tactical Police Force -- as they attempt to deal with this enormous crowd which is con- tinuing to grow every minute. Officer -- officer -- this is Eyewitness News -- An OFFICER turns to CAMERA.
officer		Very large.
roger's voice		Would you describe it as unruly?
officer		Compared to some I've seen, Roger, I'd have to say it was ruly. Definitely ruly.
roger's voice		Excuse me, madam -- do you have any comment on the drama that's unfolding beneath our feet at this very moment?
woman		What particular part of the drama do you want me to comment on?
roger's voice		Some people feel that our subways have becomes jungles.. Any comment on that?
woman		In my opinion, Roger, our subways have become jungles.
delivery boy		Dogs --,all they gotta do is loose
model		Yeah -- I definitely heard it on the radio -- they're asking a million dollars for each passenger. That makes sixty-five million dollars in all --
workerr		You know how they're gonna get away? The sewers -- they got a map of the sewers -- just like that French guy, the Count of Monte
housewife		I met you before, Roger -- remember two years ago? -- at that three- alarm fire in Crown Heights -- ?
roger's voice		Excuse me, sir -- from the looks of things, you could use another pair of hands. I s this your regular corner?
vendor		Terrific -- really terrific! What's going on, a parade?
james		Patrolman James calling operations -- come in, operations --
james		That's what I want to know, Lieutenant -- standing here like a statue -- it's drivin' me bananas!
jaiies		I just want to know one thing, Lieutenant -- there's a whole mess of feet runnin' around out there in the dark -- I can hear 'em. I figure it's a couple of dozen snipers and sharpshooters -- am I right?
james		Yeah, well, would you make sure they know about' me standin' here between them and the hijackers?
warren		Pull your pants up, Nate -- we're going downtown. "
doctor		It's totally out of the question, Mr. LaSalle.
warren		Nobody asked you!
mayor		Warren, for Chrissake, I'm sick as a goat. What's the point?
warren		The point, you dumb cluck, is that the Mayor of the City of New York, trailing by twenty-two points in all the polls, cares enough about seven- teen citizens in jeopardy to make a personal appearance in their behalf!
mayor		You know what'll happen -- what always happens -- I'll get booed. The Doctor starts taking the Mayor's pulse.
doctor		This is a very sick man.
warren		 Let go of that! You're off the case! Look, Nate, all you have to do is say a few words to the hi- jackers over a bullhorn -- make a dignified plea for mercy
mayor		Do you think it will help?
warren		Of course it'll help!
warren		No, You.
mayor		Warren -- suppose the hijackers start shooting at me --
warren		Will you stop? They've got no reason to shoot at you.
correll		-- Shut up and listen to me! All Lexington Avenue trains departing from Dyer Avenue and 180th Street in the Bronx. are diverted to the West Side tracks at 149th Street and the Grand Concourse -- ! CAMERA PANS to Prescott, who is sitting at his desk, watching Correll and shaking his head.
prescott		 Yeah, who's this?
prescott		I'll be goddamned if I know. Jesus! How long does it take to get that money together? r
prescott		There's still fifteen minutes. I'm signing off,. Sol.  Command Center calling 28th Street -- can you read me, Daniels -- ?
prescott		Has the money left yet?
prescott		Well for God's sake, give then a goose, will you? We're running out of time!  Command Center calling Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham -- This is Pelham One To Three --
prescott		This is Prescott. Listen -- we're moving too slowly at this end. We need some more time. Sorry -- no more time. Prescott's face hardens, his jaw. muscles tense.
correll		-- Here's the flex south of 14th Street -- I want the expresses run off into Brooklyn --
prescott		I said knock it off! I'm trying to buy some more time! A silence in the room as everyone turns to watch Prescott as he speaks into the mike.
prescott		All we want is another fifteen minutes, all right? A lousy fifteen minutes ! Negative.
prescott		Ten minutes, then -- what difference can ten minutes make?
green		I heard you on the radio -- anything wrong, Mr. Blue?
blue		They've requested more time.
green		How much more?
blue		Ten minutes.
green		I guess it won't hurt anything.
blue		I 'didn't -give it to them.
blue		Then we do what we said we'd do. There's no other way.
green		Maybe an hour wasn't enough time
blue		An hour's plenty! You know how the system works -- you give them two hours and they take two -- three and they take three. An hour's plenty!
green		And what if it isn't?
blue		I don't know. They're running pretty late.
ricci		it sure is taking them a helluva long time --
ricci		That's right -- kid around. But you know damn well that if we don't get it up there on time they're gonna blame us for it -- you know they're gonna blame us for it.
wentworth		Look out there, -Albert -- eight cycles -- just for us -- and I hear there's gonna be a cop at every single intersection all the way uptown.
ricci		Yeah, and while we're tying up the entire New York Police Force, the whole East Side's gonna be ripped off.
went worth		Albert, this might be the biggest day of my life and you're determined to spoil it, aren't you? RADIO r  This is the Borough Commander -- come in, Car Fourteen-David --
ricci		 This is Fourteen-David ---
ricci		(rolling his eyes
borough commander		Yeah? Well if it's not there in thirty seconds you have my permission to go in after it! A LIEUTENANT interrupts him.
lieutenant		Sir -- we just got word that the Mayor's on his way down.
borough commander		Terrific. Tell him we'll hold the crowd 'til he gets here.  I'm warning you two guys -- if I don't see your faces before the deadline, I don't'want to see them at all! Ever!! He slams down the mike.
ricci		What'd I tell you? It's all gonna be our fault.  EXT. LOADING BAY - DAY  as the two Guards run out of the Federal Reserve, each holding one end of the money sack, each with his gun drawn, and head for the Police Truck. The time is  SUPERIMPOSED:  "S:05. They throw it into the front seat on Ricci's side and slam the door. The motorcycles are already starting to move, shoving off, their sirens wailing and the truck starts after them.  EXT. MAI,)EN LANE & NASSAU STREET - DAY  A COP on the corner waves the procession -- motorcycles and truck -- right on Nassau, one of the narrowest streets in the city -- cars are parked half up on the sidewalk -- and they head uphill toward John Street.
overhead shot		From the roof of one of the office buildings, as the police truck continues along Nassau, past john, Fulton, Ann, and on toward Beekman, the eight motorcycles leading it.
went worth		Beautiful -- really beautiful! I've always wanted to do this -- we're scaring the shit out of everybody.
wentwcrth		What's wrong with you, Albert? This is something you can tell your kids about some day.
prescott		Where are they now, Daniels -- ?
prescott		What've we got -- ?
prescott		No way.  Pelham One Two Three -- this is
prescott		The money's en route -- making pretty good time, too -- but it won't get to you by 3:13. I'm sorry to hear that.
prescott		Listen -- suppose we get it to the station entrance by then -- will you change the deadline from delivery to you to arrival at 28th Street? Will you do that at least -- ?
continued		I'm here, Prescott.
prescott		Clear, clear.  Daniels -- they bought it. If we get it to the station entrance by 3:13 we'll be okay.
prescott		Except for one thing --
prescott		We still won't make it.
ricci		-- proceeding west on Canal Street on our way to Lafayette. Traffic heavy. Over.
radio		Keep it coming -- you've got five minutes.
ricci		We'll make it.  We'll never make it.
continued		tl?ENTTIORTH Five minutes? No sweat, Albert -- you want to stop for a beer?
ricci		Jesusl Look out -- I
sergeant		Sir -- there's been an accident --
borough commander		Jesus Christ, I don't believe it! He starts for the radio in one of the vehicles. The time
borough commander		This is the Borough Commander -- what the hell happened?
borough commander		Never mind! Drop off two more bikes to look after them and keep going -- do you hear me? Keep
radio		Get the lead out, for Chrissakel
ricci		 Why don't they face it -- it just can't be done!
wnetworth		You know something, Albert -- you're absolutely right. Next corner we're turning right, crossing the bridge to Brooklyn and you and me, we got ourselves a fast million bucks, free and clear.
ricci		Are ou crazy? !  You're kidding around again.
wentworth		But I had you going there for a minute, didn'.t I, 'Albert? _
blue		Mr. Green --
green		 What?
blue		Coming up on one minute.
green		I guess not.
blue		Mr. Brown.
green		Does he know?
blue		He won't mind.
green		Neither would Mr. Grey.
blue		Mr.. Brown's better. With hint it's just a job -- not kicks. He looks at his watch as the.SUPERIMPOSED time continues to
blue		Fifty seconds -- then we erase one.
radio		You've still.got twenty-eight blocks -- floor the sonovabitch! ! Wentworth is bent over the wheel, all determination now.
wentworth		Tell him I'm doing over sixty now!
ricci		Holy Christ: -- the street's blocked!
i wentworth		Hold on -- I'm going through -- !
wentworth's pov		SHOOTING THROUGH the windshield  it is closing fast. The cycles screech to a stop but it is clear that the truck doesn't intend to as it bumps up onto the sidewalk, and starts for the opening. But it is now too narrow. The screeching brakes of the truck are heard as it starts to skid around, the panorama flashing by sickeningly and, perhaps, a crash and, perhaps, the scene flopping over as the truck, perhaps, rolls over onto one side.
prescott		Daniels -- for God's sake answer me! Where's that goddam money -- ?!
prescott		what the hell are you talking about?! It can't be wrecked -- we're out of time, goddammit!
prescott		What do you mean, that's all?! They're just about to shoot some poor sonuvabitch -- 1!
prescott		They don't know anything, for Chrissake! How can they know anything down where they -- Holy shit, that's it!! He punches a button on the console as the SUPERIMPOSED numbers now reflect the time down to the tenth of a second:
prescott		Yeah. I'm still here. Tell me something -- if we were a couple of seconds late -- you'd have knocked off an innocent person? Affirmative. Now if you're ready, I'll give you instructions for the delivery of the money. Again, I'll have to insist you follow them to the letter.
prescott		Go ahead. Two unarmed policemen will walk down the track -- one with the money, the other with a light which he'll flash continuously from side to side in a sweeping motion. When they reach the car the rear door will open and the one with the money will throw it in onto the floor. Then they will both turn and walk back to the 28th Street Station. Acknowledge.
prescott		I've got it. Is that all? For now. But keep it in mind that the same ground rules apply -- any wrong move by anyone and we'll kill a hostage.
prescott		I could've. guessed that part. You have ten minutes to deliver the money. If it isn't here by then --
prescott		Yeah, I know -- -it's getting mono- tonous. I don't suppose you'll give us longer than ten minutes -- Ten's more than enough, Prescott
prescott		You don't really think you're gonna get out of there, do you?
borough commander		Well, it's about fucking time!
borough commmider		Which one has the flashlight?
miskowsky		I do, sir -- He shows it hanging from his belt.
borough commander		No, but I can sure hear him --
wider angle		The Mayor, wrapped in a blanket, is smiling and nodding as he passes through the crowd, led by a wedge of COPS, flanked on one side by the Commissioner, and on the other by Warren LaSalle. The BoroughrCommander waits for him, shaking his head in disgust.
borough commander		And to think that I voted for the ba stard . The Mayorand entourage join him.
warren		Hello, Commander -- His Honor wants to go down into the tunnel with a bullhorn and make a personal appeal to the hijackers.
borough commander		I'm afraid not.
warren		I wasn't asking for your permission -- all you have to do is clear the way.
continued		The Commander looks at the Commissioner who stares right back, blankly. Then he turns to the Mayor.
borough commander		I appreciate your wanting to help, sir, but you've come at a very bad time.
warren		Mr. Commissioner, will you order your man to comply?
mayor		Cool it, Warren'-- the Commander knows the situation here and we don't.
warren		Nate -- I'm warning you --
mayor		I feel shitty, Warren -- I'm going back to bed. The Mayor turns and starts back through the crowd, Warren chasing after him.
warren		Nate -- ! For God's sake, Nate -- ! INT. SUBWAY TUNNEL r All that can be seen in the darkness is a flashlight, its beam swinging back and forth, coming toward CAMERA. The time is SUPERIMPOSED:
miskowsky		My name's Miskowsky. What's yours?
miskowsky		Pleased t' meet ya. Tactical Force?
miskowsky		You get the feelin' we're not alone down here?
miskowsky		I thought I saw'someone -- a couple of times in fact --
mis kowsky		You realize we got four submachine guns ahead of us and all those jokers behind us? I feel like I'm walkin' into the fuckin' O.K. Corral.
james		Shiiiiiit.
another angle		From the other side of the pillar as James ducks back behind it, turns his back to it and looks around for another way of amusing himself. He notices his real gun in a holster at his belt and unbuttons the strap, freeing it. Then he assumes the stance of a gunfighter, hand poised over it, knees slightly bent. Then, moving suddenly, he slaps his holster, wheels, fires without aiming -- and there's a reverberating BANG, the shattering of glass and the figure in the subway car reels back. James looks at his hand in amazement -- there's no gun in it. Then, at the same-time, Brown has recovered his balance and begins firing his submachine gun, the bullets ricocheting off the metal pillars.
miskowsky		For Chrissake, they're shooting at us!, O'Keefe pushes the sack of money in front of them and they press flat behind it.
continued		and there is glass all over the floor nearby. Brown is just in the process of sitting heavily in the single isolated seat near the door, a dark red patch blossoming on his sleeve, just below the right shoulder, his sub- machine gun resting in his lap. He begins examining his wound with his left hand. Grey s--ands at the rear door, pressed flat against the wall, peering out.
blue		Return to your position, Mr. Grey.
grey		Maybe they're not through --
blue		You heard me, Mr. Grey! I don't think there'll be any more.
brown		It's not too bad -- I think it went right through.
blue		How does it feel?
blue		How many shots were there?
brown		Just one -- the rest was me. I didn't see anything -- I guess I just got mad -- no sense to it --
blue		We can't afford to.  I'll go pick one cut.
james		-- I don't know who did it, Lieutenant -- it came from behind me somewhere -- in the dark. It hadda be one of them snipers they got down here --
james		I don't know -- maybe nobody's.
james		Not too good.
james		I don't know -- but I'd sure hate to be in there finding out.
bud		You mean me -- ?
blue		That's right, conductor. Would you come along with me, please?
bud		Why? -- what are you going to do?
blue		There's something you can help us with. Bud still hesitates.
blue		Don't worry, conductor -- come
blue		All you have to do is walk uptrack about a hundred feet and wait for the men delivering the money. They have reached the rear where Bud manages to avoid looking at Brown while Blue slides open the door.
blue		I'll help you down onto the track.
bud		Why do I have to go -- ?
prescott		What the hell are you talking about, Sol? How do you know they shot a hostage?
prescott		But why?! We're still under the delivery deadline --
prescott		Who the hell fired at them?
prescott		I better find out. Christ, what a fucking mess!  Pelham One Two Three -- come in, Pelham, this is Prescott -- This is Pelham -- go ahead, Prescott --
prescott		Did you have to do it, you bastard?
blue		One of my people was shot -- I warned you what the penalty would be.
blue		In the meantime, where's the money?
miskowsky		Pray that a million bucks is bullet-proof.
jaies' voice		Hey, you guys --
miskowsky		 Jesus, who's thgt -- ?
james' voice		Transit cop -- I'm up ahead. I got orders for you. Resume your delivery.
niskowsky		I don't suppose we could have it in writing --
jaies' voice		Get going -- the orders are make it snappy. Miskowsky and O'Keefe regard one another, then get slowly to their feet and brush themselves off.
brown		Mr. Blue -- there's the light. Blue returns to the rear and stands watching with Brown.
continued		picks out Bud's dead body on the track -- and then Caz Dolowitz.
miskowsky		It looks like Vietnam down here. They continue toward the first car.
blue		Mr. Grey -- He gestures for Grey to join them which he does, his eyes on the money all the time.
grey		Well -- will you look at that,
blue		Get your things off -- both of you -- and start loading up. Blue watches while both Grey and :Brown remove their raincoats, jackets and finally their shirts. Brown has a blood-stained kerchief tied around his right upper arm. Both wear what can only be called money vests: canvas, sleeveless, fitting over the head like a Mae West, with ties on the sides, and containing pockets, 20 in all, front and back.
blue		Jr. Grey, you do Mr. Brown, then he'll do you -- nineteen packets each. Blue continues to observe for a mc-,ment as Grey starts inserting packets of pills, one to a pocket, into Brown's vest, as Brown stands stiffly, his hands at his sides. Then Blue walks to the front end of the car, joining Green.
green		All that money -- I can't believe
blue		When they're finished it'll be your turn. Mr. Grey will load you up. But don't go down there until Nr. Brown has come here to take your place. I'll load up as soon as I talk-to Prescott.
green		I just wish it was all over already.
blue		Pretty soon now. He goes into the motorman's cab and shuts the door.
prescott		 This is Prescott --
blue		I'm going to give you five specific instructions. Each one i.s.to be followed precisely -- is that clear?
prescott		So far.
blue		One: at the end of this conversation you will restore power to the entire sector.
blue		Twos you will clear the local track all the way from 28th Street to South Ferry. By clear I mean switches properly set and all signals green. I emphasize green, Prescott -- if eve so much as see a red light, let alone get tripped by one, we will shoot a hostage.
blue		Three.: all southbound trains behind us, local and express, are to remain lying dead. Likewise all northbound between South Ferry and here.
blue		Four: you will con-",act me as soon as the track is clear and all signals are green.
blue		Five: you will remove all police personnel from the tunnel. If we see a single cop between here and South Ferry we will shoot a hostage. In fact, any deviation from these instructions and we will shoot a hostage.
prescott		Sol -- you there -- ?
prescott		Hold on while I cut in the city
prescott		Daniels, I've got Lieutenant Garber of the Transit Police on the line with us. I have the latest instructions from the hijackera. They want power restored, the tracks cleared, all signals green as far as South Ferry, and no cops anywhere. Okay, so we go along -- we have to -- but then what? What do you think they've got in mind?
garber		Beats hell out of me, Clive. I wouldn't've picked a tunnel to make my getaway from in the first place.
prescott		But they did pick it'-- and since everything they've done so far has
daniels		If I remember right it comes after Bowling Green -- what comes after South Ferry?
garber		Bowling Green again -- the track loops around and heads back uptown.
prescott		All they'll do is bottle themselves up. That's no good.
daniels		So that means they want South Ferry. Why?
prescott		Do you think it's the water, Sol? Maybe they've got a boat waiting in the harbor -- dr a seaplane --
garber		Who knows? We'd.better play it a step at a time. Clive, you see about restoring power and clearing .the track. Daniels and I'll start pulling our units out of the tunnel. We can follow them just as well up above, on the street.
daniels		How'1l we know where they are?
prescott		Grand Central Tower has 'em on their model board -- we can see every move they make. If they stop anywhere before South Ferry we'll know about it.
daniels		We'd better put some men on all of the emergency exits just in case. I'll check back in when I've found a squad car I can use.
garber		Wait a minute! I think I just figured out how they're gonna get away!
prescott		I'm listening --
garber		They're gonna fly the train to Cuba!
correll		What do you want me to do, for Chrissake? -- the goddam power's still off ! You' llr have to move them by bus -- what do you mean you don't have any buses?! -- go hiiack some! He slams the receiver down, then notices Prescott looking down 'at him.
correll		What's going on, Prescott -- do I get my trains back now or don't I?
correll		Jesus! Do you realize that in less than an hour the goddam rush hour starts?
prescott		Will you shut up and listen? I've got a new set of instructions.
prescott		If you don't do what I tell you, Frank, you'll be having dinner tonight with Caz Dolowitz.
blue		Your attention, please -- in a moment we're going to start moving again. You will all remain seated and quiet. We expect to release you unharmed in a short while, but until then you must continue doing exactly as you're told. Come along, Mr. Green. He heads for the motorman's cab, Green right behind him. The Pimp looks at Grey for a moment.
pimp		Hey, dude.-- long as you goin' downtown anyway, you mind droppin' me off at Fulton Street?
grey		Smart-assed nigger --
pimp		You pretty, smart too, baby -- long as you holdin' that piece.
fag		Will you please?!
blue		Go ahead then.
green		This is gonna hand 'em a jolt, you know -- moving before they expect it.
blue		Go ahead, Mr. Green. Green edges the controller forward and the car responds.
wider angle		Featuring Marino who is staring up at the Board.
marino		Holy Christ, she's moving!
prescott		Come in, Grand Central Tower
prescott		Who's moving?
prescott		Mat?! Since when?
prescott		Hold on --  Sol -- she's moving!
prescott		Who the hell do you think?! Pelham! What's she doing now, Grand Central?
prescott		Which is probably why they did it. You heard from Daniels yet?
prescott		 Daniels -- ? It's Prescott --
prescott		She's moving.
prescott		What's the matter with everybody?!. How many hijacked trains we got around here?i
prescott		Grand Central -- ? RADIO  They're coming up on the 23rd Street Station.
green		We're coming in to 23rd Street.
blue		Keep it steady.
green		I'm still in switching -- can I push it up a notch?
blue		No -- steady as she goes.
green's pov		SHOOTING through the windshield. Ahead, the 23rd Street Platform is drawing nearer -- and there is a CROWD waiting, many leaning over to look uptrack at the approaching train.
green's voice		Jesus -- look at 'em hanging over the edge. When I was a motorman I had nightmares about them falling off in front of me.
daniels		Prescott -- ?
daniels		I just had a terrible thought: what if they're not on the train? What if they set the throttle and jumped off? While we're chasing the train they're sneaking out an emergency exit somewhere behind us.
daniels		Why?
daniels		Yeah?
continued		RADIO  you're- still worried, I was just about to call them. I'll let you know if I get their answering service.
blue		Slight change of plan. We decided to put some distance between us and all those cops you had hidden in the tunnel back there.
blue		We'll be stopping soon. Just get back when you've cleared the rest of the track. Signing off. '
green		Do you think he's figured anything out? All those questions --
blue		Perfectly natural under the circumstances. They're thinking just the way we want them to.
blue		Look sharp now -- it's coming
blue		Do you see it?
green		It's that white light about a hundred feet ahead.
blue		All right -- this is close enough. Green starts to apply the brake.
marino		She's shut down again. Pass it along.
prescott		This is Command Center --
prescott		Gotcha, thanks.  Daniels? Come in, Daniels this is Prescott --
prescott		They've stopped again. Where are you?
prescott		Pull over -- you're right above them.
prescott		It's up to them. I'll get back to you.  Pelham One Two Three -- this is
blue		Ignore him -- he'll get tired and quit after a while. Let's get this stuff unpacked -- there isn't much time. They are unbuckling the straps and unfolding the canvas bag, then attacking the zipp`rs.
correll		You mean before this railroad is so totally fucked up that it'll take a goddam computer,to put it back together?
pres cott		Right, Frank, that's what I meant.
correll		Five or six minutes. I've got a snag at Brooklyn Bridge.
pres cott		Something's going on down there -- I haven't the faintest idea what but I'm gonna go'over and join Daniels at 17th Street. Come on up here and take over on the radio -- but don't tell 'em the track's clear until I check in with you. I don't want them starting up again before I get there. INT. SUBWAY - FIRST CAR - IHiOTORF,IAN' S CAB
continued		form with a molded, hollowed-out area on one side. It is clearly heavy enough to require both of Green's hands to heft it. CAitIE A PULLS BACK to reveal him, grunting, setting it over the controller handle which it fits perfectly. Blue stands by, watching.
green		Perfect fit. Blue now hands him a length of pipe, some six inches in length. Green takes it, fits one end into a socket on top of the gimmick, facing toward the windshield, and screws it in. Then Blue hands him his submachine gun. Green looks at him for reassurance.
blue		Go ahead. Green attacks the windshield with tine stock of the gun, opening a great splintered hole.
blue		Get it all -- it's got to look right. Green uses the gun's barrel to scrape around the edges, clearing away the last traces of glass. Blue now hands Green another length of pipe -- this one about three feet long. Green fits one end over the protruding end of the attached short pipe -- not screwing it, merely fitting it. The other end extends straight out the glassless windshield.
blue		Try.it once -- make sure it comes away clean. Green yanks at the long pipe and it separates from the shorter one.
green		Perfect. He reattaches it.
blue		Okay. Now j um_ down --- Ill hand the other oiece through. Green leaves the cab.
blue		Make sure its tight.
green		I did.
blue		Come on back in. Green returns to the storm door c There Brown extends his left hand and pulls Green back up into the car.
green		It's all set to go. I only wish we were.
blue		Don't worry -- ten minutes from now we'll be free and clear.
daniels		Not very much at the moment, sir --- they're sitting down there and we're sitting up here.
daniels		No, sir -- but it's their move. 7e're just waiting for them to make it.
prescott		Prescott.
daniels		Prescott? I thought -- I don't know what I thought. Get- in. Prescott climbs into the back and closes the door.
prescott		Anything happening?
daniels		No. They're still down there. If the street collapsed we'd probably land right on top of them.
prescctt		 Prescott to Command Center Garber?
prescott		Let 'em know. And let us know when they start moving. 
daniels		What do we do -- wait or get started? If they ever get up to speed we're.gonna have trouble staying with them.
green		That's not Prescott --
blue		Thanks, Command Center. Give Prescott our regards.
blue		Over and out. He gives the mike a strong tug and-snaps the wire.
blue		I want this train moving in thirty seconds. Tell Mr. Brown and Mr. Grey they.rcan cut the emergency brake cords. Green leaves the cab. Blue examines the gimmick one last time, then follows Green out.
wider angle		Including Grey who is cutting the brake cord at the other end of the car. Now, submachine gun in hand, Brown opens the front storm door, crouches and drops out of sight. Then Grey starts for the rear door, hesitates, returns to the Hooker and bends to whisper something in her ear.
hooker		You and what army? Snickering, he returns to the rear door, opens it and disappears. At the front of.the car, Green backs out of the door, closing it after him, and is helped down to the roadbed by Brown from below. Only Blue is left. He holds his submachine gun easily cradled in one arm as he moves through the car.
blue		You will remain in your seats. Don't try to get up.
maid		You mean ever?
blue		I mean remain seated. He has reached the rear, walking backwards, and now gropes behind him for the door handle.
old man		Aren't you going to tell us what a great bunch of hostages we've been? Blue doesn't answer as he opens the door and backs out onto the metal landing. Then he closes the door and drops down to the track. The Passengers, left alone, look at one another uncertainly.
blue		All right, Mr. Green -- Green, a hand on the protruding pipe connected to the controller handle inside the Motorman's cab, now grabs it with both hands and pushes inward, toward the train.
mother		They said to remain seated -- I
hippie		I'm a police officer -- ! He slides open the rear door of the now-rapidly-moving car and dives out, leaving the Passengers even more confused.
blue		Let's move along, gentlemen -- there's no time to waste. You all remember the drill. What's wrong, Mr. Brown?
blue		What did it look like?
brown		I don't know -- a shadow -- could've been a person -- I'm not a hundred percent sure I saw it.
grey		 Want me to go check?
continued		Mrs. JENKINS' VOICE Grand Central Toner to Cozna.nd Center -- Pelham One Two Three in motion --
daniels		We're right on top of her.
prescott		It doesn't make any sense -- they know we're monitoring their position -- that we've got to be following
daniels		So?
prescott		So it's dumb.
prescott		But these have been -- up to now, that is. They haven't made a single mistake. I tell you we're over-
blue		All right, we do it exactly as we did in the drill -- by the numbers.
grey		Drills, numbers -- it's all chicken- shit. Why don't we just do it?
blue		Shut up and do what you're told.
submachine guns		They set them down on the roadbed.
blue		Hats, glasses, wigs and mustaches -- They remove their disguises anal we see their faces for the first time.
mother		Can you imagine? That beatnik being a policeman?
old man		Hippie -- they don't call them beatniks any more.
mother		How can they let policemen dress like that?
salesman		They're trained to do that.
pimp		Jump headfirst off a subway? Shiiit.
mother		Where do you think they're taking us now?
old liad		Don't worry -- they'll let us go pretty soon. The Hooker has been looking around with growing anxiety and now, she stands up.
hooxer		You dumb bastards -- can't anybody count?! They all four got off.-- there's nobody driving the fucking train! There's a moment's silence as everyone digests this news. Then the Mother screams.
blue's voice		Remove your coats -- turn inside- out -- and put back on. He looks off.
hippie		Gun -- gotta find my gun --
blue		Remove gloves --
daniels		Christ, they're gaining on us!
prescott		it has something Co do with that short move they surprised us with -- from 28th to 17th St. --
daniels		What does?
prescott		Their scheme -- it's tied up some- how with that move -- it has to bet But why'd they do it?
daniels		I give up.
prescott		To get away from the cops in the tunnel, that's what they said -- all right, why not? Suppose they were doing something they didn't want anybody to see?
daniels		Like what?
prescott		 Like getting off the train. Daniels --- turn around, we're going back.
wider angle		Including Daniels.
daniels		Like hell we are.
prescott		They're not on the train -- I'm sure of it!
daniels		Look, Presoctt -- I'm the one who suggested that in the first place -- but you shot me down -- something about a 'dead man's feature" --
prescott		They figured out how to beat it -- that's their aanl,, -- that's what they started with! Daniels considers for an instant, then turns to the Driver.
daniels		Turn it around -and burn rubber!
into tunnel		Blue, Green, Brown and Grey.
blue		Check handguns in coat pocket --
continued		They each remove a snub-nosed pistol, check it, then return it.
blue		Remove magazines from submachine guns. All of them pick up their submachine guns but only three remove the magazines and then place the guns back dcwn again. Grey merely watches the other three,. continuing to hold his gun under his arm, a slight smile on his face.
blue		Did you hear me, Mr. Grey? Disarm your gun and put it down so we can I get out of here.
grey		I'm not leaving it -- it goes out with me.
blue		Put it down, Mr. Grey --
grey		What if something's gone wrong? What if they're waiting for us up there? I want more'n just a dinky pea-shooter!
blue		Nothing's gone wrong. The plan depends on our walking away un- noticed. You can't do that carry- ing a submachine gun.
grey		I won't just carry it -- I'll hold it under my coat --
green		This is crazy! Do what he says so we can get going!
blue		You're leaving your gun here, Mr.
green		Oh my God -- Brown watches with a detachment bordering on disinterest.
brown		I What about his money vest?
blue		Mr. Green will put it on over his own.
green		Me? Why me?
blue		You're the thinnest one -- it'll show less. Hurry up and undress. Mr. Brown -- help me with Mr. Grey. They start to work on the dead body as Green starts undressing.
marino		That's a,pretty good clip -- I hope they know what they're doing.
old man		My friends -- please -- the situa- tion isn't as lousy as it looks --
fag		Just a little lousy's good enough for me.
mother		We're going to be killedl
old man		No -- no we won't! I admit that right now we're on a run-away train, but it's only temporary -- The car careens into a curve and sways wildly as the metal wheels scrape and screech. There's a good deal of scream- ing and shouting from the Passengers as several fall down. The Old Man starts to topple but the Pimp steadies him.
old ilxn		Thank you, brother.
old man		But I do know -- I've been riding the subways for over sixty years -- I'm an expert!
hooker		Why don't we cut all this crap and beat down that goddam door, for
continued		OLD MAN  like that -- so whenever a train goes through a red light these things automatically stop it.
pimp		(looking cut the
i pimp		They all green.
daniels		You'd better be right about this,
green		Come on -- i
blue		I'd never make it -- I
green		I -- I'll wait for you -- 1 Blue looks at him fora moment, then checks his pistol and, slowly, steps out from behind the pillar. A shot rings out immediately and the ricochet off the pillar zings loudly. Blue calmly fires twice at the muzzle flash.
green		Did you hit, him -- ?!
blue		Quiet! He listens again, then leaves his pillar, and hurries downtrack to the next where he again waits and listens,
salesman		There aren't any!
mother		We're not stopping -- we're going to be killed! i OLD MAN There's gonna be a red light -- there has to be!
hooker		And what if there isn't -- ?!
blue		Mr. Green -- ! It's all right! Go on up -- I'll be right with you -- !
blue		You were on the train. Are you a cop? Almost imperceptibly, the Hippie nods -- just once.
blue		Then the Mayor will come to your funeral. X He lifts his gun to aim and fire and the Hippie manages to turn his head away. Then there's a shot -- and Blue crumples to the ground, dead.
prescott		I'll have an ambr lance here in no time at all, Miss -- every- thing's going to be all right.
hookep		My God -- look -- 1 !
old man		I told you it would stop, didn't I?
hooked		You win, pop.
wino lady		Forty-secon' stree' aw'ready -- ?
prescott		What about the train?
daniels		Stopped itself just past South Ferry. Everybody's okay.
daniels		On our side -- two' dead and a long- haired cop on the critical list. Their side?
prescott		Three dead.
daniels		And don't forget. him He indicates the back seat with his thumb. CAMERA PANS to pick up Green, sitting sadly, staring at nothing in particular.
correll		-- Maintenance -- you got those trippers reset yet? -- well, it's
correll		Okay, Augie -- I'm givin' you back your railroad -- full ser- vice restored -- try and keep it that way, will you? 711 .He rises wearily, takes his coat off the back of his chair, and <<;atches as the Relief Man slips into the seat.
relief man		Great job, Frank -- great job. Correll nods and starts out. Y
correll		Bring charges against that nigger cop. He waves and starts off, across the large room. The others watch him go.
trainmaster		With that mouth he eats? The time is SUPERIMPOSED:
doctor		I believe he's awake now --
another angle		including the Hippie in bed and a NEWS CAMERMAN standing by. The Mayor is wrapped. in a heavy overcoat, a woolen muffler and a fur hat with ear-muffs.
mayor		Congratulations, Patrolman --
commissioner		Berry -- Robert G.
mayor		-- Patrolman Berry -- all right if I call you Bob? You performed an act of extraordinary valor, Bob -- the people of the city of New York are in your debt.
warren		Shake his hand, Nate -- The Mayor reaches out to shake hands, but the Hippie is too weak to lift his -- so the Mayor picks it up from atop the covers and pumps it. A flashbulb pops from the Photo- grapher's camera. Then the Mayor sneezes again.
commissioner		Splendid work, Berry -- the De- partment's very proud of you. I've already put you in for pro- motion.
mayor		So long now, Bob -- hurry up and get well, will you, fella? And congratulations again.
hippie		Thank you, sir -- I only did what any other man on the force But they're already moving toward the door.
mayor		He looks better than I do -- probably feels better, too. The Hippie's eyes slowly close as he goes back to sleep. The time is SUPERIMPOSED:
old woman		Know what's gonna go next? The Empire State Building.
****Dialogues from script :Talented_Mr.txt****

herbert greenleaf		Most enjoyable. Herbert Greenleaf.
ripley		Tom Ripley. Thank you, sir.
herbert greenleaf		 I see you were at Princeton. Then you'll most likely know our son, Dick. Dickie Greenleaf...
emily greenleaf		We couldn't help noticing your jacket.
herbert greenleaf		Yes.
emily greenleaf		Class of '56?
ripley		 How is Dickie?
emily greenleaf		 I hope you'll come and see us...
fran		That's very kind.
emily greenleaf		Both of you...
herbert greenleaf		Of course, Dickie's idea of music is Jazz. He has a saxophone.  To my ear Jazz is just noise, just an insolent noise.
ripley		Gotta run. I'm so late.  Thanks for the jacket.
boyfriend		Sure.  Thanks for filling in for me.
emily greenleaf		Darling couple, aren't they?
herbert greenleaf		Yes.  An exceptional young man.
ripley		Sorry, sorry.  I know.  Sorry.
herbert greenleaf		Mongibello. Tiny place. South of Naples. Marge, his uh, the young lade is supposedly writing some kind of book. God knows what he does. By all accounts they spend the whole time on the beach. Or his sailboat. That's my son's talent, spending his allowance.
ripley		I've always wanted to go to Europe, sir, but...
herbert greenleaf		Good. Now you can go for a reason.
ripley		Don't even know if this is a man or a woman.
ripley		That's Charlie Parker. Bird.
chauffeur		Here.  I'll take that.
ripley		Thanks.
caretaker		 That thousand bucks should come in handy.
ripley		Yes, sir.
chauffeur		 I'll get that.
ripley		Thanks.
chauffeur		 You're gonna have a great trip.  Mr Greenleaf is personal friends with the Cunard people.
chauffeur		I can tell you.  The Greenleaf name opens a lot of doors.
meredith		What's your secret?
ripley		Excuse me?
meredith		No, it's just - you are American, aren't you? - no, I just, I have so much luggage, and you're so, uh, streamlined. It's humiliating.
ripley		Dickie, Dickie Greenleaf. Hello.
meredith		Hello.
ripley		 Trying not to be. Trying to jump ship.
meredith		So now, did they put your suitcase in the wrong pile? It's just - upstairs - weren't you under the R stand? I thought I saw you there.
ripley		My father wants me in New York. He builds boats. I'd rather sail them.  I travel under my mother's name.
meredith		Which is?
ripley		Emily.  Just kidding.
meredith		The funny thing is, I'm not Randall either. I'm Logue.
ripley		 As in the...?
meredith		As in the Textile Logues. Trying to shrug off the dress. I travel under my mother's name, too.
ripley		Randall.
meredith		Right.
driver		MONGIBELLO!
ripley		 La fidanzata a una faccia.  The fiance has a face.  La fidanzata e Marge.
ripley		Dickie Greenleaf?
dickie		Who's this?
ripley		It's Tom. Tom Ripley. We were at Princeton together.
dickie		Okay.  And did we know each other?
ripley		Well, I knew you, so I suppose you must have known me.
dickie		 This is Marge Sherwood. Tom - sorry, what was it?
ripley		Ripley. Hullo. How do you do.
marge		How do you do.
dickie		What are you doing in Mongi?
ripley		Nothing. Nothing much. Passing through.
dickie		 Passing through! You're so white. Did you ever see a guy so white, Marge?  Gray, actually.
ripley		It's just an undercoat. 
dickie		Say again?
ripley		You know, a primer.
dickie		That's funny.
marge		You should come and have lunch with us, before you go - Dickie?
dickie		Sure.  Any time.
marge		And be careful in the sun. Your gray's in danger of turning a little pink.
ripley		Thanks. Well, a coincidence.
dickie		I've been looking for you everywhere.
silvana		Ah, today you're looking for me.  And where have you been the rest of the week? Pig.  With your American girl?  I hate you, you know?
dickie		What?
silvana		I hate you.
dickie		Sorry, sorry, sorry. I know, I'm late, I'm a swine.
marge		Did you forget where I live? It's four o'clock.
dickie		I just woke up.  I'm sorry.
marge		You just woke up!
dickie		Fausto and I - we took the boat out, we were fishing, and then it was dawn and we'd caught absolutely nothing.
marge		Well, we ate everything without you.
dickie		We?
marge		Yes, Tom Ripley's here.
dickie		Who? Oh, Tom, hello, how are you? We thought you'd disappeared. We were going to send out a search party.
ripley		No, still here.
marge		Tom was telling me about his trip over. Made me laugh so much I got a nosebleed.
dickie		Is that good?
marge		Shut up!
ripley		I'm intruding.
dickie		Can you mix a martini?
ripley		 Sure.
marge		 I'll do it. I make a fabulous martini.
dickie		Everybody should have one talent.  What's yours?
ripley		 Forging signatures. Telling lies. Impersonating practically anybody.
dickie		 That's three. Nobody should have more than one talent. Okay, do an impression.
ripley		Now?  Okay.  Wait a minute.  Talent -  The only talent my son has is for cashing his allowance.
dickie		 What? What's this?
ripley		I like to sail, believe me, I love to sail! Instead I make boats and other people sail them.
dickie		 Stop! It's too much!  You're making all the hairs on my neck stand up!
ripley		 Jazz, let's face it, it's just an insolent noise.
dickie		I feel like he's here. Horrible. Like the old bastard is here right now!  That's brilliant!  How do you know him?
ripley		I met him in New York.
dickie		Marge! You've got to hear this!
marge		 What?  What?
dickie		Meet my father, Herbert Richard Greenleaf 1st.
ripley		Pleasure to meet you, Dickie's made a fine catch. I know Emily thinks so.
marge		What's going on?
dickie		Uncanny!
marge		I don't get it.
ripley		Could you ever conceive of going there, Tom, and bringing him back?
dickie		What?
ripley		I'd pay you. If you would go to Italy and persuade my son to come home. I'd pay you
dickie		I'm never going back. To actually hire somebody to come all the way here to drag me back home - got to be insane, hasn't he?
ripley		No, I think your mother, her illness -
dickie		It's got nothing to do with my mother! She's had leukemia for - ! This is what makes me boil about him! HE wants me back! - it's got nothing to do with my mother.
ripley		I don't know, Dickie, I'm just telling you what I -
dickie		 Go back!  Go back to New York or call him if you can find a telephone that works, and tell him wild horses wouldn't drag me back to him or his shipyard.
marge		Hi Tom.
dickie		 Marge, Ripley's saying goodbye.
marge		I'll come down.
dickie		 Did you speak to my father?
ripley		You were right about the telephones. There are no lines, there's some problem.
marge		 Hello Tom. You're off? What are your plans?
ripley		Back, I suppose, slowly as I can.
dickie		You like jazz!
ripley		 I love jazz.
dickie		 This is the best. Marge says she likes jazz, but she things Glenn Miller is jazz.
marge		I never said that!
ripley		Bird. That's jazz.
dickie		Bird! Ask me the name of my sailboat -
ripley		I don't know. What's the name of your sailboat?
dickie		Bird!
marge		Which is ridiculous. Boats are female, everyone knows you can't call a boat after a man.
ripley		He's not a man, he's a god.
dickie		 Okay, we're going to Naples. There's a club, it's not a club, it's a cellar.
marge		It's vile.
dickie		Yes, it's vile. Don't worry, you don't have to come.  It's great.  You're going to love it.
fausto		 Ladies and Gentlemen. Dickie Greenleaf, all the way from America... etc.
dickie		 Good afternoon!
ripley		What time is it?  That should be two Ts.
dickie		I can't write and I can't spell.  That's the privilege of a first-class education. You're upstairs at the back. I think Ermelinda made the bed up.
ripley		This is so good of you.
dickie		Don't say it again. Now you're a Double Agent and we're going to string my Dad alone, I was thinking we might buy a little car with the expense money he's sending you. What do you think, Marge...a little Cinquecento with my Dad's money?
marge		Dickie, you can't even drive a car!  No, what we need urgently is an icebox. What do you think, Tom? Agree with me and I'll be your friend for life.
ripley		I absolutely agree with Marge.
dickie		It'll just be for a little while.  He can be... he makes me laugh.
marge		Okay, darling.
dickie		You'd say if you mind?
marge		No, I like him.
dickie		Marge, you like everybody.
marge		I don't like you.
dickie		Then I'll go to your place and you can move in with Tom.
dickie		Now you know why Miss Sherwood always shows up for breakfast.  It's not love it's the coffee machine.
marge		It's the one task Dickie can do on his own - make coffee.
dickie		Shut up.
marge		Oh darling - is that for me?
dickie		No it's for Tom as he didn't complain.
ripley		 That ring's so great. The green one.
marge		 I bought it for him, for his birthday.
ripley		It's superb.
dickie		I had to promise, capital P, never to take it off - otherwise I'd give it to you.
marge		 Isn't it great, Tom? I found it in Naples.  I bargained for about two weeks.
dickie		I hope it wasn't cheap.
marge		Oh, it was.
ripley		 I have to find a birthday present for Frances. Perhaps you can help me?
marge		Frances?
ripley		My fiance.
dickie		You're a dark horse, Ripley. Engaged?
ripley		Your parents met her.
dickie		Oh God - I can just imagine - if only Dickie would settle down... doesn't every parent deserve a grandchild?  Never! I swear on your ring, Marge.  I am never going back.
ripley		I'm doing this wrong, aren't I?
dickie		You're doing great. We'll make a sailor of you yet. You're doing really well.
marge		Dubious but special honor, Tom - crewing Dickie's boat.  Alright, bar's open.
dickie		Yes please!
ripley		Could we sail to Venice?
dickie		Sure.  I love Venice.
ripley		I have to go to Venice.
dickie		See Venice and die, isn't that right? Or is it Rome? You do something and die, don't you?  Okay, Venice is on the list.
ripley		And Rome.
dickie		Do you ski?  Marge - Ripley can't ski.  We'll have to teach him that, too. Have you ever known such low class?
marge		Poor Tom. Good thing we're not getting married. We might have to invite him on our honeymoon.
marge		Oh I hated New York - that Park Avenue crowd - so I fled to Paris to work on my book, and I was always going to this cafe with Jean-Jacques, and Dickie used to play his saxophone outside and I would see him and he would see me, and he would play My Funny Valentine. It was only later that I realised he only knows about six songs.
silvana		E fichi?  Come sempre?
marge		Si.  Come sempre.  Grazie.
dickie		Okay.
silvana		Did you get my message?  I want to talk to you.
dickie		I want to talk to you too...Smile for me.
dickie		You're breaking my ribs!
ripley		What?
dickie		You're breaking my ribs!
dickie		I could fuck this icebox I love it so much.  What were you actually doing in New York?
ripley		I played piano in a few places.
dickie		That's one job, you told me a lot of jobs.
ripley		A few places - that's a few jobs. Anyway, I don't want to think about New York.
dickie		The mysterious Mr Ripley. Marge and I spend hours speculating.  Cold beer. Thank you Dad.
ripley		Copy out from here...
dickie		 I love the fact you brought Shakespeare with you and no clothes.  Ermelinda says you wash the same shirt out every night. Is that true?
ripley		No! I've got more than one shirt!
dickie		She can do that stuff for you. Anyway, just wear some of my things, wear anything you want, most of it's ancient. 
ripley		Now your signature.  Not "Dickie". Your signature.
dickie		Without the glasses you're not even ugly.  I don't need them because I never read. How do I look.
ripley		Like Clark Kent.  Now Superman.
dickie		I know. I write like a child.
ripley		Pretty vile. See this: The S and the T, do you see? - fine, vulnerable - that's pain, that's secret pain.
dickie		It must be a deep secret, cause I don't know about it.
ripley		Your handwriting - nothing more naked. See - nothing's quite touching the line - that's vanity.
dickie		 Well we certainly know that's true.
dickie		Do you have any brothers?
ripley		No, no brothers, no sisters.
dickie		me neither. Nor does Marge. All only children - what does that mean?
ripley		Means we never shared a bath. I'm cold. Can I get in?
dickie		No!
ripley		I didn't mean with you in it.
dickie		 Okay, you get in. I'm like a prune anyway.
dickie		It is me. It's an old picture.  Every time - 'is it you?  Doesn't look like you'.
clerk		Letters - Greenleaf, and for Ripley.
ripley		Fran.  And this one, I think, is your dad...
dickie		What does he say?
ripley		He's getting impatient. He wants me to reassure him you'll be home by Thanksgiving.
dickie		You've got to get a new jacket. Really. You must be sick of the same clothes. I'm sick of seeing you in them.
ripley		I can't. I can't keep spending your father's money.
dickie		I love how responsible you are. My Dad should make you Chief Accountant or something.  Let me buy you a jacket. There's a great place when we get to Rome, Batistoni.
ripley		Where do we find a carozza for the Forum, or can we hire any of them - ?
dickie		Relax.
ripley		It's just there's so much to do in a single day.
dickie		Relax. The most important question is where to eat. I hope Freddie made a reservation.
ripley		Freddie?
dickie		Freddie Miles.  You know - he's organizing the Cortina skiing trip.
freddie		Ciao bello.  Don't you want to fuck every woman you see.  Just once.
dickie		This is Tom Ripley. Freddie Miles.
freddie		 Hey, if I'm late, think what her husband's saying!
dickie		I'll tell you - I am so cabin-crazy with Mongi.
freddie		I know.  I was there.  Tommy!  It's S.R.O.  Two seater. Standing Room Only.  Chop, chop, Tommy!
dickie		Look, Tom, we've got to go to a club and meet some friends of Freddie's. The best thing is - if you want to be a tourist - grab a cab and we can meet up at the railway station.
ripley		 What club?
dickie		Freddie's arranged it with some of the skiing crowd. Come if you want but I thought you wanted to see the Forum...?
ripley		I did. And then maybe get the jacket and what have you...
freddie		 Dick - you've got to hear this!
dickie		 Listen, just take one of mine when we get back. Don't worry about it.  I did the Forum with Marge and, frankly, once is enough in anyone's life.
dickie		Ciao.  Have fun.
ripley		You said to make sure you didn't miss the train. It leaves at eight.
ripley		Oh - just amusing myself.  Sorry, Dickie.  I didn't think you were coming back.
dickie		I wish you'd get out of my clothes.
ripley		 You said I could pick out a jacket and I just... Sorry.
dickie		Get undressed in your own room, would you?
ripley		I thought you'd missed the train.
dickie		Freddie drove me back in his car.
ripley		 Is Freddie here?
dickie		He's downstairs.
ripley		I was just fooling around. Don't say anything. Sorry.
marge		Hi, Tom.  Come join us.
freddie		I want this job of yours, Tommy. I was just saying - You live in Italy, sleep in Dickie's house, eat Dickie's food, wear his clothes, and his father picks up the tab. If you get bored, let me know, I'll do it!
marge		You really should go in, it's marvellous.
ripley		I'm fine.
marge		Are you okay?
ripley		Sure.
marge		The thing with Dickie - it's like the sun shines on you and it's glorious, then he forgets you and it's very very cold.
ripley		So I'm learning.
marge		He's not even aware of it. When you've got his attention you feel like you're the only person in the world. That's why everybody loves him. Other times...
dickie		 He's drowning me!
marge		It's always the same whenever someone new comes into his life - Freddie, Fausto, Peter Smith-Kingsley - he's wonderful - did you meet him, he's a musician? - ... and especially you, of course... and that's only the boys.
ripley		What about Cortina?
marge		Didn't Dick say? - he talked to Freddie... apparently it's not going to work out -  Freddie says there aren't enough rooms.
dickie		Come on, Frederico, do you really have to go back?  At least stick around for the Festival of the Madonna.
freddie		I don't think so. Come back with me to Rome. There's this great new club.  Have some drinks, lotta ladies...
dickie		Do you think you can steer this thing?
freddie		Sure.
dickie		Just point her at Capri and avoid the rocks.
freddie		What are you doing?
dickie		Marge-maintenance.
freddie		Aye, aye.
ripley		What's the fight about? That's her fianc, isn't it?  Are they blaming him?
dickie		 How can it take an hour to find an ambulance?
marge		 Well, she was already dead, darling, wasn't she, so I suppose -
dickie		I don't know why people say this country's civilised. It isn't. It's fucking primitive.
marge		Dickie!
ripley		I'll go and see what's the matter.
marge		I'll go.
ripley		I know why you're upset.  I know about Silvana, Dickie. About you and Silvana.
dickie		What about us?
ripley		I'm prepared to take the blame.
dickie		What are you talking about?
ripley		You've been so good to me. You're the brother I never had. I'm the brother you never had.
dickie		She came to me for help, she needed money, and I didn't help her. I didn't help her. Now she's dead and it's my fault.
ripley		I'm not going to say anything - to Marge, or anybody, the police - It's a secret between us and I'll keep it.
ripley		...The thousand dollars, of course, was only due in the event that you succeeded in bringing Dickie home. Naturally, I hope the trip has afforded you some pleasure despite the failure of its main objective you need no longer consider yourself obligated to us in any way...
dickie		You can't blame him.  You could hardly expect this to go on forever.
ripley		I thought you might write again. Now that we're brothers...
dickie		I can't, how can I, in all decency? We've had a good run, haven't we?
ripley		 What about Venice? Can we stick to that plan at least?
dickie		I don't think so, Tom. You can't stay on here without money.  It's time we all moved on.  Besides I'm sick of Mongi. Especially now with everything - I really want to move to the North. I need to check out San Remo next week, find somewhere new to keep the boat. But it would be great, though, if you came with me.  Our last trip before you leave. There's a jazz festival - we could say goodbye in style.  What do you think? A last trip?
dickie		 Why do you do that thing - with your neck? On trains you always do that thing, it's so spooky.
dickie		This is more like it. Didn't I tell you San Remo was crazy!
ripley		To Mongibello and the happiest days of my life.
dickie		To Mongi.  You're cheerful tonight.
ripley		I'm suddenly quite happy to be going back.
dickie		That's good.
ripley		I've got plans!
dickie		Ripley's plans.
ripley		Esatto. I'm always planning.
dickie		Did I know you at Princeton, Tom? I didn't, did I?
ripley		Why are you asking all of a sudden?
dickie		No reason. Because you're leaving, I guess. I don't think you were there, were you?
ripley		Why?
dickie		I mean it as a compliment. You've got such great taste, I don't know. Most of the thugs at Princeton had tasted everything and had no taste. Used to say, the cream of America: rich and thick. Freddie's the perfect example.
ripley		Then I'll take it as a compliment.
dickie		I knew it! I had a bet with Marge!
ripley		 Ha.
dickie		Do you even like jazz - or was that something for my benefit?
ripley		 I've gotten to like it. I've gotten to like everything about the way you live. It's one big love affair. If you knew my life back home in New York...
dickie		I'm thinking of giving up the sax, what do you think about drums?
ripley		What?
dickie		So cool.
dickie		That's how I found my place in Mongi. Took a boat out round the bay.  The first place I liked, I got it.
ripley		Dickie, slow down, come on!
dickie		 I love it here! Gonna live here!
ripley		I wanted to tell you my plan.
dickie		So tell me.
ripley		I thought I might come back. In the New Year. Under my own steam.
dickie		 Really?  To Italy?
ripley		Of course. Let's say, for argument's sake, you were here - perhaps we could split the rent on a house - I'll get a job - or, better still, I could get a place in Rome and when we're there we could be there and if we're here we could be here -
dickie		Oh God, I don't think so.
ripley		- you see, particularly with the Marge problem, you can just blame me.
dickie		Marge and I are getting married.
ripley		 How?
dickie		How?
ripley		Yesterday you're ogling girls on the terrace, today you're getting married. It's absurd.
dickie		I love Marge.
ripley		You love me and you're not marrying me.
dickie		 Tom, I don't love you.
ripley		No, no, it's not a threat, I've explained all of that.
dickie		I'm actually a little relieved you're going, to be honest. I think we've seen enough of each other for a while.
ripley		What?
dickie		You can be a leech - you know this - and it's boring. You can be quite boring.
ripley		 The funny thing - I'm not pretending to be somebody else and you are. I'm absolutely honest with you. I've told you my feelings. But you, first of all I know there's something - that evening when we played chess, for instance, it was obvious -
dickie		 What evening?
ripley		Sure - I know, that's too dangerous for you, fair enough, hey! we're brothers, fine, then you do this sordid thing with Marge, fucking her on the boat while we all have to listen, which was excruciating, frankly, plus you follow your cock around like a - and now you're getting married! I'm bewildered, forgive me...you're lying to Marge then getting married to her, you're knocking up Silvana, you've got to play sax, you've got to play drums, which is it, Dickie, what do you really play?
dickie		 I can't move without - "Dickie, Dickie, Dickie" - like a little girl.  You give me the -
ripley		Shut up! Just shut up! Just shut up!
dickie		For God's sake.
ripley		Can I have my key, please?
receptionist		 Of course - But you must be very cold? Signor Greenleaf?  Yes? -
ripley		 No, it's - I'm...
ripley		Hello Marge.
marge		Tom, you startled me!  You're back.
ripley		How are you? Sorry. Is your book going well?
marge		Yes - I'm on a good streak, thanks.
ripley		I was just looking at you -  - so quiet.
marge		Where's Dickie?
ripley		I think he's planning on staying in Rome for a few days.
marge		 Ha. Did he say why?
ripley		I don't know. I don't understand Dickie, Marge, so your guess is as good as mine.
marge		What does that mean?
ripley		Well, one day I'm invited skiing, the next day I'm not, one day we're all one family, the next day he wants to be alone. You tell me.
marge		Is that what he said - he wanted to be alone?
ripley		He was thinking of you, Marge - he asked me to deliver this.
marge		Thanks. he knows I love this, although why it couldn't have waited...
ripley		Errand number one - deliver Marge's perfume. Errand number two, pack some clothes and his precious saxophone.
marge		 How long's he staying for?
ripley		Search me. I guess we're abandoned.
marge		There was a letter from Dickie in with my perfume. You realize it's more than a few days? He's thinking of moving to Rome.
ripley		I think you're right.
aldo		Welcome back, Signor Greenleaf.
ripley		 Thank you.
ripley		Yes, I'd like you to telephone the Hotel Goldoni. Yes. I want to speak to Signor Thomas Ripley - No Ripley, R, yes. Grazie.
ripley		He's not there?  Very well. I'll leave a message - Got your call. Dinner tonight sounds fine. Ripley.  Dinner tonight, yes, is okay. Yes, thank you.
ripley		I'd like these to have my initials - embossed, I don't know the word in Italian ...embossed?
gucci assistant		Embossed, of course, Signor Greenleaf.
meredith		 Dickie! Oh my God!  Ciao.
meredith		But you're going skiing with us Yankees, aren't you?
ripley		What?
meredith		At Christmas. To Cortina with Freddie Miles and -
ripley		 How did you know that?
meredith		Everybody knows Freddie Miles.
ripley		 Is Freddie in Rome?
meredith		Now? I don't think so. But I've met him, of course, and we've chatted and I know about you and Marge and Mongi and what an unreliable rat you are. Freddie said you were a rat and I thought to myself now I know why he travels under R.
ripley		I've left Marge, Meredith. And Mongi. So the rat's here now, in Rome.
meredith		Sorry, I wouldn't have made a joke if -
ripley		Don't be sorry. I've never been happier. I feel like I've been handed a new life.
meredith		The truth is if you've had money your entire life, even if you despise it, which we do - agreed? - you're only truly comfortable around other people who have it and despise it.
ripley		I know.
meredith		I've never admitted that to anyone.
ripley		I don't want too many large bills. Nobody will change them.
meredith		Show me the other one again.  I like them both.
ripley		I'll take them both.
ripley		 You could drag me.
ripley		Thanks so much for inviting me tonight.
joan		Can you bear it?  We hear you're a friend of Freddie's - he has I hate Opera tattooed on his chest.
ripley		There's room for a whole libretto on Freddie's chest.
joan		 I'm sure we've met.
ripley		Thanks, yes, I think we did.
joan		One minute you people are children and the next you're getting tattooed.
marge		 Oh my God. Tom.
ripley		Marge, how are you? What are you doing in Rome?
marge		Is he here? Are you with Dickie?
ripley		No.  Hello, I'm Tom Ripley.
peter		Peter Smith-Kingsley. I've heard about you, of course - from Marge, and Dickie.
marge		 No glasses.
ripley		 Ditto.
peter		Where are you hiding him? He's impossible, isn't he?
marge		Is he really not here?
ripley		Marge, you know Dickie has I hate Opera tattooed on his chest.
marge		You were going to Venice.
peter		Yes, what happened? I heard you were desperate to come. I was looking forward to rowing you around.
ripley		I am.  I really am. And I've been travelling. I just can't seem to get that far north.
peter		Well hurry, before we sink.  Should I give you my telephone number in Venice?
ripley		Thanks.
peter		Look there's Meredith thingy - who's that, Marge? - they're in textiles... Meredith -  God, how awful, I've spent Christmas in her house...!
marge		I don't know her.  He hasn't called, he's hardly written, just these cryptic notes. You don't just dump people.
peter		Will we see you later?
ripley		I can't later.
peter		And tomorrow?
ripley		Tomorrow's possible. Do you know Dinelli's? Piazza di Spagna?
peter		I know the Piazza di Spagna. What time?
ripley		Ten thirty?
peter		We'll be there.
ripley		Okay. Marge, see you tomorrow.  It's really good to meet you.
ripley		Let's go.
meredith		I thought you were enjoying yourself?
ripley		Let's take a Carozza and look at the moon.
meredith		You're crazy! It's freezing out there.
ripley		C'mon, I need to talk to you. Just the two of us.
meredith		 Okay then, you're crazy.
meredith		Don't worry. Really. Don't worry.
ripley		You're such a pal to understand. It's as if Marge is here now - I look at you and I see her face - and I can't, whatever I'm feeling towards you - I just can't...
meredith		No, I absolutely understand. Of course.
ripley		Otherwise you'd be fighting me off.
meredith		Beating you away.
meredith		Will you meet me tomorrow?  Just to say goodbye in the daylight, properly? So it's not just this, it's too...you should always save pain for daylight...
ripley		Oh Meredith, I'm sorry. Of course I'll meet you. Let's have coffee in the morning at Dinelli's.
meredith		 I don't - is that by the Spanish Steps?
ripley		Exactly. 10.30 - 
meredith		Peter? Hello, it's Meredith Logue.
peter		Of course it is, Meredith, hello, I'm sorry, half-asleep, how are you? This is Marge Sherwood. Meredith Logue.
marge		Hello.
peter		Join us, won't you? We're just waiting for a friend. Do you know, I wonder did we see you at the Opera last night?
meredith		I won't actually, although I think this might - are you waiting for Dickie?
peter		Well no, as it happens, although...
marge		 Dickie? Do you know Dickie?
meredith		You were at the Opera? Well, that explains - yes I was there. I was there with Dickie.
marge		 I told you! I knew it!
meredith		 Marge, I don't know you, so I have no right, but Dickie loves you.  He's - I think you'll find he's coming home to you.
marge		 How would you know that?
meredith		He told me everything. I was supposed to meet him fifteen minutes ago, so I...I'm going to go now, I think. Unless he meant us to meet - which would be a little cruel, wouldn't it?
peter		No, we're meeting another friend. Tom Ripley.
marge		Do you know Tom?
meredith		Ripley? No. I heard about him, of course, but no, I didn't meet him.
ripley		Sorry, sorry. Had to renew my papers. Italian bureaucracy - never one stamp when they can make you line up for three. Have you been waiting long?
peter		Not at all. Morning Tom.
ripley		Hi.  Sorry. You okay? You look as if you've seen a ghost...
marge		Dickie was at the Opera last night.
ripley		I don't believe it. Wild horses wouldn't drag Dickie to -
marge		He was there with someone. So I suppose she must have dragged him - that's not fair.  I'm going back to Mongi. I think Dickie's coming home.  I'm going to go home.
ripley		Really? That's swell. No, I was just - you're way ahead of me! Great!
peter		We think he's had a change of heart.  So we should be celebrating.
marge		I hope so.
peter		 Meredith's the American girl I saw last night, I know her, at the Opera, she's been seeing something of Dickie -
ripley		My God.
peter		But the point is Dickie - well we know this - Dickie loves Marge and he misses her and apparently he's come to his senses...
ripley		It's fantastic.  I feel guilty. Marge doesn't understand this, but anytime Dickie does something I feel guilty.
signora buffi		Accendo il riscaldamento. 
ripley		Hello?
ripley		Who is it?
ripley		Hello, Freddie, it's Tom, Tom Ripley.
freddie		 Oh hello, where's Dickie? How are you?
ripley		Yes, I'm good, thank you. Dickies at dinner. He's at Otello's. Do you know it?
freddie		I don't think he's at dinner at 6.30pm. If you said he was still at lunch I'd believe you. Incredible. The guy has disappeared off the face of the earth.
ripley		I guess.
freddie		The landlady - as far as I could tell, the landlady said he was here right now.
ripley		He's gone to dinner! Search the place. I can't think why you would imagine Dickie would hide from you.
freddie		Because he's been hiding from me - what happened at Christmas?
ripley		What about Christmas?
freddie		He was supposed to come skiing. I didn't get a cable or a call or a note or, frankly, a fart.
freddie		Which is horseshit.  Have you heard him play that thing?  He can't.
freddie		No thanks.  Are you living here?
ripley		 No. No, I'm staying here for a few days, in Rome.  That's a new piano, so you prob -
ripley		You should watch that!
freddie		In fact the only thing which looks like Dickie is you.
ripley		Hardly.
freddie		Have you done something to your hair?
ripley		Freddie, do you have something to say?
freddie		What? I think I'm saying it. Something's going on. He's either converted to Christianity - or to something else.
ripley		I suggest you ask Dickie that yourself. Otello's is on delle Croce, just off the Corso.
freddie		Is it on "delle Croce, just off the Corso"? You're a quick study, aren't you? Last time you didn't know your ass from your elbow, now you're giving me directions. That's not fair, you probably do know your ass from your elbow. I'll see you.
freddie		Ripley? There's someth -
ripley		 Hey, if I'm drunk, think what her husband's saying.
roverini		Dickie Greenleaf?
ripley		Yes?
roverini		Inspector Roverini. Can we come in?
roverini		It's a terrible shock, eh? What time did Signor Miles leave yesterday?
ripley		I can't be absolutely sure - 8? 9? We'd both taken on far too many drinks - but it was dark, it was certainly dark when I walked him down to his car.
roverini		So Signor Miles drove away and you did what?
ripley		I went to bed. Freddie's a big man, but I'm in trouble after a couple of drinks. I've suffered all day. Who found him?
roverini		Senta.  We have to ask you to stay in Rome.
ripley		Yes, if it's going to help, certainly.
roverini		So, the Doctor, he has to make the -  - come se dice?
ripley		Postmortem?
roverini		Yes, exactly, but his first, his first conclusion was that Signor Miles was killed not later than seven o'clock yesterday evening.
ripley		Well, he certainly wasn't dead when he drove off in his car.
roverini		No.
marge		Did he kill Freddie?
ripley		Marge, when did you get here?
marge		Tell me the truth. Did he kill Freddie?
ripley		I'd swear he didn't. Of course he didn't.
marge		I tried again, waiting here, watching for him. Instead it's you. Whenever I look for Dickie I find you.
ripley		Dickie did it.
marge		 Dickie?
ripley		My face! There was an argument. I said some things I shouldn't have.  About you. About the appalling way he's treating you, all of us.  And the next thing I know he's launched himself at me.  Are you getting on?
marge		What?
ripley		Get on. I'll take you to him.
marge		Where does Dickie live?
ripley		We passed it a few blocks back, where the police were. The Palazzo Gioia. They don't even know I'm in Rome and I'm not going to incriminate Dickie -
marge		Perhaps I shouldn't go either.
ripley		 Good luck, Marge. I'll catch up with you later.
ripley		Can we go up? Do you mind?
roverini		Of course. What happened to your face?
ripley		My scooter. I fell off. Getting chased by photographers.
roverini		Never. We've had many requests and, of course, we say no - even to your fiance.
ripley		I really don't want to see anybody.
roverini		Even your fiance...?
ripley		Even her.
roverini		What about Thomas Ripley?
ripley		What about Ripley?
roverini		You and Signor Ripley went to San Remo, is that right?
ripley		Yes, sure, we did go to San Remo. That was months ago.
roverini		November, I thought.
ripley		Was it? Did you speak to Tom?
roverini		November 7th is my information.
ripley		I don't remember the exact date.
roverini		And when did you last see Signor Ripley?
ripley		A few days ago.
roverini		Does he stay with you here?
ripley		No!
roverini		No.  Here is a pattern. Two days ago Freddie Miles is dead - he leaves your apartment and is murdered. Yesterday a little boat is found in San Remo full of rocks, and the owner tells the Police it was stolen on November 7th. We look at hotel records and we see oh! Dickie Greenleaf is staying in San Remo and then our boatman remembers two Americans taking a boat.
ripley		It's not a pattern, it's a coincidence. There must be fifty hotels in San Remo, there must have been a hundred people renting a boat on that day.
roverini		31 people.
ripley		31 people.
roverini		That is Miss Sherwood now. Marge Sherwood.
ripley		 No, actually, no, I'd like it very much if you would ask her to come back later.
roverini		 May I ask...why would you speak to your friend and not your fiance?
ripley		I think I just said. Ripley was handling some business for me, nor does Mr Ripley want to marry me.  Nor did he ask me every day if I would marry him. And when.
roverini		Do you have a photograph of Signor Ripley?
ripley		I'm not in the habit of carrying around photographs of my male friends.
roverini		Now I think I have upset you. My English perhaps is coarse.
ripley		It is a little coarse, yes.
roverini		Sorry.  No-one has seen Signor Ripley since San -
ripley		I have!
roverini		You have, yes.
ripley		No, I have and so has Miss Sherwood, ask her! and if I could remember which hotel he was staying at - the Goldoni! - Tom was staying at the Goldoni.
roverini		Good. The Goldoni. Yes - you're right. A coincidence.  I look forward to our next meeting when I will be more careful with my English and persuade you to play me your saxophone. Alto.
ripley		Absolutely.
roverini		 Tomorrow then?
ripley		 Tomorrow.
marge		Dick? Dickie? I know you can hear me. What am I doing, chasing you around...? I was going to say I would count to three and if you didn't open the door, but I won't count any more. On you. I won't count on you any more. Whatever it is, whatever you've done or haven't done, you've broken my heart. That's one thing I know you're guilty of, and I don't know why, I don't know why, I just don't know why...
peter		 I'll see you over there!
ripley		Peter, I'm really sorry to put you through this. I just couldn't face going to the police by myself when my Italian's so rotten.
peter		Don't be daft. It's fine. I'm delighted you finally made it to Venice. I'm delighted, contrary to rumour, you're still in one piece?
ripley		What rumour?
peter		That Dickie murdered you and is travelling under your passport. I know, ridiculous.
peter		Welcome to Venice.  This place reeks, doesn't it? Can you smell it?  Ugh. Sorry. Not the best way to spend your first day.
ripley		It's okay.
peter		Anyway I've got to the bottom of the delay. Finally.  We're waiting for someone from Rome.
ripley		 What do you mean?  They're sending someone from Rome?
peter		That's good, isn't it?
ripley		 No, but I thought that didn't happen in Italy, that each region was completely separate! I was sure that was the -
peter		You've seen the papers, you know what a big deal it's been here. American tourist murdered -
ripley		It's ridiculous but now you've mentioned the stench I can hardly breathe.
policeman		Colonelo Verrecchia della Polizia di Roma.
verrecchia		 Qui e Ripley?  Who is Ripley?
peter		 Lui. Him.
verrecchia		Ho assunto io la guida delle indagini in seguito alla negativa valutazione delle disdicevoli circostanze verificatesi con il mio predecessore Roverini che come e noto non e riuscito a impedire il verificarsi della scomparsa del signor Greenleaf, il quale era l'unica persona al momento passibile di incriminazione del reato di omicidio del signor Miles.
peter		 He's taken over the case because... they're annoyed the previous chap let Dickie...disappear when he was the only, he was the only suspect in Freddie's murder.
verrecchia		Quando e stata l'ultima volta che il signor Ripley ha visto il signor Greenleaf? 
ripley		In Rome, about three weeks ago.  I knew that one.
peter		 A Roma, circa tre settimane fa.
verrecchia		Dove e stato il signor Ripley da allora?
peter		 Where have you been since then?
ripley		I've been backpacking.
peter		I don't know how to translate that.  E difficile....il signor Ripley ....dormiva all'aperto, con un...
verrecchia		All'aperto? Col freddo che ha fatto?
peter		He thinks it's very cold to be sleeping outside.
verrecchia		Il signor Ripley ha sviluppate tendenze omosessuali?
peter		Are you a homosexual?  Interesting non-sequitur.
ripley		No.
peter		 By the way, officially there are no Italian homosexuals. Makes Leonardo, Michelangelo very inconvenient.
ripley		Tell him I have a fiance, Dickie has a fiance and Freddie Miles probably had a string of them.
peter		 Il signor Ripley ha una fidanzata, il signor Dickie ha una fidanzata e probabilmente il signor Freddie Miles ha molte fidanzate.
verrecchia		 Mamma mia, quante fidanzate!
ripley		What did he say?
peter		He says so many fiances.
verrecchia		 Lei ha ucciso prima Freddie Miles e dopo Dickie Greenleaf! Vero?
peter		He wants to know if you killed Freddie Miles and then killed Dickie Greenleaf?
ripley		 Ask him if he's accusing me!
peter		He's already angry, I don't think -
ripley		 Just because he doesn't like Americans!
verrecchia		Non e questo il luogo per le vostre conversazioni private!  
verrecchia		Hmm. C'e questa...  
verrecchia		 Questa lettera e stata trovata nell'abitazione del signor Richard Greenleaf a Roma.
peter		They found this in Dickie's place in Rome.
ripley		You opened this?
verrecchia		Of course!
ripley		 You ask me all these questions and you've already read this suicide note?
peter		Can you imagine, if Dickie did kill Freddie, what must that be like? To wake up every morning, how can you? Just wake up and be a person, drink a coffee...?
ripley		Whatever you do, however terrible, however hurtful - it all makes sense, doesn't it? inside your head. You never meet anybody who thinks they're a bad person or that they're cruel.
peter		But you're still tormented, you must be, you've killed somebody...
ripley		Don't you put the past in a room, in the cellar, and lock the door and just never go in there? Because that's what I do.
peter		Probably. In my case it's probably a whole building.
ripley		Then you meet someone special and all you want to do is toss them the key, say open up, step inside, but you can't because it's dark and there are demons and if anybody saw how ugly it was...
peter		That's the music talking. Harder to be bleak if you're playing Knees up Mother Brown.
ripley		I keep wanting to do that - fling open the door - let the light in, clean everything out. If I could get a huge eraser and rub everything out...starting with myself...the thing is, Peter, if...
peter		 No key, huh?
marge		 Hello Peter, so good to see you.
ripley		Hello Marge!
marge		 Tom.
peter		I think we sort of found each other.
marge		He's not coming till the morning. Evidently his stomach - I don't think the food here is agreeing with him.
ripley		I was looking forward to seeing him.
marge		Dickie hasn't killed himself. I'm sure of that. There's a private detective on the case now - a Mr MacCarron - Dickie's father's employing him.
ripley		That's a terrific idea.
marge		He's American. He's already discovered Dickie cashed checks for $1000 the day before he disappeared.
marge		 Is this you?
peter		No, it's Tom's. Splendid, eh?
marge		Golly. Who's paying for this?
ripley		Peter found it for me. I can afford it because it's damp and, and falling down.
marge		This is spectacular.
peter		That's why Tom wanted you to stay.  It's better than squeezing into my room, and I know how you hate hotels.
marge		A hotel would've been fine.  We'll have to tell Mr Greenleaf how far his dollar has stretched.
peter		What's funny?
marge		No, nothing. I'm just thinking about when Tom arrived in Mongi.  And now look at you.
ripley		Look at me what?
marge		To the manner born.
ripley		Mr Greenleaf.
herbert greenleaf		Tom. How are you?  You look well.
ripley		I'm well, thank you.
herbert greenleaf		Far cry from New York.
ripley		Yes it is.
herbert greenleaf		Marge, good morning.  Unusual weather.
marge		Very.
ripley		And you, sir?  Any better?
herbert greenleaf		Pretty good.  Sticking with hot water.
marge		Where's Mr MacCarron?
herbert greenleaf		San Remo. The police are amateurs. Well, my boy, it's come to a pretty pass, hasn't it?
ripley		Yes.  What's the detective hoping to find in San Remo?
herbert greenleaf		He's being thorough, that's all. I'm learning about my son, Tom, now he's missing. I'm learning a great deal about him. I hope you can fill in some more blanks for me. Marge has been good enough to do that, about Mongibello.
ripley		I'll try my best, sir. Obviously I'll do anything to help Dickie.
herbert greenleaf		This theory, the letter he left for you, the Police think that's a clear indication he was planning on doing something...to himself.
marge		I just don't believe that!
herbert greenleaf		You don't want to, dear. I'd like to talk to Tom alone - perhaps this afternoon? Would you mind? Marge, what a man may say to his sweetheart and what he'll admit to another fellow -
marge		Such as?
herbert greenleaf		What a waste of lives and opportunities and -
herbert greenleaf		 - I'd pay that fellow a hundred dollars right now to shut up!
herbert greenleaf		 No, Marge doesn't know the half of it.
ripley		I think it might hurt her to know.
herbert greenleaf		And his passport photo? Did you hear? To scratch out your own face like that - can you imagine - the frame of mind you'd have to be in?  I've thought about going to the police but I can't face it. I can't face anything anymore.
ripley		I feel guilty. I feel like I pushed him away. I spoke and he heard you.
herbert greenleaf		 The moment someone confronts him he lashes out.  He lashes out. You know, people always say you can't choose your parents, but you can't choose your children.
ripley		I'm sorry. I was asleep. I must have fallen asleep.
peter		You look ghastly, Tom. Are you okay?
marge		Did Dickie's Dad go?
ripley		He's having an early night.
marge		Poor man.  I think I've broken my strap.
peter		Not guilty.
ripley		I'll fix some drinks.
marge		You walk in Venice!
peter		Are you okay?
ripley		I'm fine.
peter		 Do you want me to stick around?
ripley		It's okay.
peter		Or I could come back.
ripley		Marge, I'm in the bath. Won't be long.
marge		I found Dickie's rings.
ripley		What?
marge		You've got Dickie's rings.
ripley		I can explain.
marge		Dickie promised me he would never take off this ring.
ripley		Let me put on some clothes and then we can talk about this.
marge		I have to tell Mr Greenleaf. I have to tell Mr Greenleaf. I have to tell Mr Greenleaf.
ripley		Marge, calm down, you're being hysterical.
marge		He promised me. I swear I'll never take off this ring until the day -
ripley		Shut up! Shut up!
ripley		Marge?  Where are you going?
marge		 I was looking for a needle and thread. I wasn't snooping. I was looking for a needle and thread to mend my bra.
ripley		The scent you're wearing. I bought it for you, not Dickie. The thing about Dickie. So many things. The day he was late back from Rome - I tried to tell you this - he was with another girl. I'm not talking about Meredith, another girl we met in a bar. He couldn't be faithful for five minutes. So when he makes a promise it doesn't mean what it means when you make a promise. Or I do. He has so many realities, Dickie, and he believes them all. He lies. He lies, that's his... half the time he doesn't even realize.
marge		 Why do you have Dickie's rings?
ripley		I told you. He gave them to me.
marge		Why? When?
ripley		I feel as if you haven't heard anything I've been saying to you.
marge		I don't believe you.
ripley		It's all true.
marge		I don't believe a single word you've said.
ripley		You're shivering, Marge. Can I hold you? Would you let me hold you?
marge		 Oh Peter! Get me out of here.
peter		Tom, are you okay?
ripley		You try. You try talking to her.
peter		 Tom. Tom! Tell me, what's going on?
ripley		 I give up.
peter		You can't be angry with her.  She's upset and needs someone to blame. So she blames you.  I'll go home and talk to her.  As for you - either get a safety razor or grow a beard.
ripley		Is Mr Greenleaf here?
maccarron		Mr Ripley? I'm Alvin MacCarron.
herbert greenleaf		 Marge, there's female intuition, and then there are facts -
herbert greenleaf		Tom.
ripley		Hello, sir.  Marge, you should have waited, didn't Peter tell you I'd come by and pick you up?
herbert greenleaf		Marge has been telling us about the rings.
ripley		You know I feel ridiculous I didn't mention them yesterday - I clean forgot - ridiculous.
herbert greenleaf		Perhaps you didn't mention them because there's only one conclusion to be drawn.
herbert greenleaf		 I'm going to take Marge for a little walk, Tom.  Mr MacCarron wants to talk with you.
ripley		 We could go down to the bar - no need for you to -
herbert greenleaf		No, he should talk to you alone.
ripley		I could probably see my bedroom from here. I can see my house. When you see where you live from a distance it's like a dream, isn't it?
maccarron		 I don't care for B.S. I don't care to hear it. I don't care to speak it.
ripley		Okay.
maccarron		Why do you think Dickie's father sent him to Europe in the first place? Did you know at Princeton Dickie Greenleaf half- killed a boy?
maccarron		 At a party. Over some girl. He kicked the kid several times in the head. Put him in the hospital. The boy had a wire fixed in his jaw. The Rome Police didn't think to ask Mr Greenleaf.
maccarron		 Nor did they think to check whether a Thomas Ripley had ever been a student at Princeton University. I turned up a Tom Ripley who'd been a piano tuner in the music department.
maccarron		 See - in America we're taught to check a fact before it becomes a fact. We're taught to nose around when a girl drowns herself, find out if that girl was pregnant, find out if Dickie had an embarrassment there.
maccarron		 Mr Greenleaf appreciates your loyalty. He really does. Marge, she's got a hundred theories, but there are a few things she doesn't know. We hope she never knows.
ripley		I hope she never knows.
maccarron		Three different people saw Dickie get into Freddie Miles' car. A man who won't identify himself because he was jumping someone else's wife at the time saw Dickie removing license plates from a red sports car. The Police know about this man because he happens to be a Policeman.
maccarron		 I found these in the basement of Dickie's apartment. They belonged to Freddie's car. Mr Greenleaf has asked me to lose them in the canal this evening.
maccarron		 Mr Greenleaf also feels there was a silent promise in Dickie's letter to you which he intends to honor. He intends to transfer a good part of Dickie's income from his trust into your name. He doesn't intend to give the Italian police any information about Dickie's past. He's rather hoping you'll feel the same.
ripley		 I feel I never should have said those things to you the other evening. I was pretty flustered, the rings and - and you looked so, I don't know.
marge		What are you going to do now, Tom?
ripley		I don't know. Peter has a concert in Athens next month - and he's asked if I want to go along, help out. He says goodbye by the way - he's in rehearsal, otherwise -
marge		Why do I think there's never been a Ripley rainy day?
ripley		What?
marge		 I know it was you - I know it was you, Tom. I know it was you. I know you killed Dickie. I know it was you.
ripley		Oh Marge.
ripley		Ask me what I want to change about this moment.
peter		What do you want to change about this moment?
ripley		Nothing.
peter		Hello.  What are you up to?
ripley		All kinds of things. Making plans.
peter		Plans - good, plans for tonight or plans for the future?
ripley		I don't know. Both. My plan right now is to go up on deck, look at the sunset. Come with me.
peter		You go. I don't want to get dressed yet. Come back though.  Come back.  You know, you look so relaxed, like a completely different person.
ripley		Well, that's entirely your fault.  And, if I fall overboard, that'll be your fault too.
meredith		Dickie?  Dickie?
ripley		Hello Meredith.
meredith		I was looking at you, your clothes, I wouldn't have known you...
ripley		Well, you've spotted me and so you get the reward.
meredith		What?
ripley		Just kidding. Are you alone?
meredith		Hardly. I couldn't be less alone.
ripley		Of course.  Aunt Joan.
meredith		And co. A lot of co. Oh, God, I've thought about you so much.
ripley		I've thought about you.
meredith		When I thought about you I was mostly hating you. Where've you been hiding?
ripley		I haven't been hiding. I've been in Police custody. They've been trying to flush out Freddie's killer.
meredith		You're kidding.
ripley		They're letting me have this vacation. Which is why the get-up. Which is why you haven't heard from me.
meredith		You know, the whole world thinks you killed Freddie? It's terrible.
ripley		I know. Look, I can't talk now. Later. Later?
meredith		So - are you travelling under R?
ripley		You know what - I am.
meredith		Dickie, are you with Peter Smith- Kingsley?  I bet you are. My aunt thought she saw him.
peter		How was it?
ripley		Good. But I think we should stay in here for the rest of the trip.
peter		Was that Meredith?
ripley		 Was who Meredith?
peter		Meredith Logue. You were kissing somebody. Looked like Meredith.
ripley		Hardly kissing. Kissing off.
peter		Didn't look that way - you know - from a distance.
ripley		I lied. To her. She thought she'd seen you.
peter		Why lie?
ripley		Dickie and Peter, that's just too good gossip, isn't it?
peter		Or Tom and Peter even.
ripley		Well that would be even better gossip.
peter		Really, why?  Sorry, I'm completely lost.
ripley		I know. I'm lost, too. I'm going to be stuck in the basement, aren't I, that's my, that's my - terrible and alone and dark - and I've lied about who I am, and where I am, and so nobody can ever find me.
peter		What do you mean lied about who you are?
ripley		I suppose I always thought - better to be a fake somebody than a real nobody.
peter		What are you talking about - you're not a nobody! That's the last thing you are.
ripley		Peter, I... I...
peter		 And don't forget. I have the key.
ripley		You have the key. Tell me some good things about Tom Ripley. Don't get up. Just tell me some nice things.
peter		Good things about Tom Ripley?  Could take some time!... Tom is talented. Tom is tender... Tom is beautiful...
ripley		 You're such a liar...
peter		...Tom is a mystery...
****Dialogues from script :Tall_in_the_Saddle.txt****

written by		 Michael Hogan & Paul P Fix
story by		 Gordon Ray Young
station agent		 Expectin' someone?
rocklin		 I guess not. Where's the stagecoach office?
station agent		 Back of the depot.
dave		 -- makes you the most aggravatin' female as ever I had a despise fer -- I've got a good notion to pizen you -- an' what's more --
dave		 Fooled myself, too.
stage agent		 Howdy.
rocklin		 That the stage for Santa Inez?
stage agent		 Leaving any minute.
stage agent		Santa Inez -- seventeen-fifty --  Name?
rocklin		Rocklin.
rocklin		Mind if I ride alongside the driver?
stage agent		 It's all right with me -- if it's all right with Dave -- He's mad -- His last trip -- Had a row with Harolday, the boss -- Old-timer, Dave -- an' a grumpy old cuss.
rocklin		 I like grumpy old cusses -- Hope to live long enough to be one.
stage agent		 Yeah?
stage agent		Here's your mail, Dave --
rocklin		 -- and a passenger.
rocklin		Mind if I ride up here?
dave		Where's them wimmen?
stage agent		Up at the hotel.
dave		 Ain't it?
stage agent		You can pick 'em up there -- it's only up the street --
dave		On'y up the street -- an' they cain't walk it -- What's the matter -- don't Easterners have laigs like other folks?
stage agent		 Hold tight when you git in the mountains, mister -- When he gits riled you can hear the passengers prayin' for miles.
dave		 Whar's them wimmen? -- They waitin' for you to carry 'em out?
saddler		 Dave -- Dave -- tell Arly Harolday her saddle ain't ready yet, will ya?
dave		 I ain't tellin' that crazy female nothin' -- Last time I seen her she threatened to rip the hide off'n me and bat me dizzy with it.
saddler		 Mister -- will you tell the Agent at Santa Inez to tell Miss Harolday her saddle ain't ready yet?
rocklin		 I'll say that.
clerk		 By next year, madam, we expect to have a bathtub on each floor.
miss martin		Now don't drop it --
miss martin		At your age you'd best not be lifting things so heavy.
miss martin		Clara!
miss martin		 Staring as though you'd never seen a man before.
clerk		Try to hold him down or he'll scare the women to death.
rocklin		I never feel sorry for anything that happens to a woman.
clerk		Well, I hope you have a nice trip, ladies.
miss martin		I hope we get there -- wouldn't surprise me if we didn't.
dave		 Wait till I get you on the road, you old buzzard, you'll be surprised all right.
dave		I wonder why a young feller who don't have to wants to come into this God danged country?
dave		Say -- did you mean what you said back there about wimmen?
rocklin		 Every word of it.
dave		 Then you're smarter than most.
rocklin		Maybe I seen more of 'em than most.
dave		 All the same...
rocklin		 All the same -- what?
dave		 Take a slug.
dave		 Whiskey and wimmen -- ever think how much alike they are? Both fool you, but you never figger out how to do without 'em.
dave		Take another.
rocklin		Not just yet.
dave		 Here's to her.
rocklin		Who?
dave		The next one that fools you.
dave		 Mighty rough stretch along here.
rocklin		Like me to speel you a while?
dave		Nope. I've had a few snorts but that don't make no difference. Leas'ways, never has...  Don't ever git wore out, and useless, like me.
rocklin		Who're them as say you are?
dave		Harolday, for one. Oh, I ain't belly- aching. Reckon he's entitled to his opinion. But him and me never did see eye to eye.
rocklin		What's wrong?
dave		It's constitootional, I reckon. Like that step-daughter of his is crazy -- he's too sane. Believes In law and order.
rocklin		 What's wrong with law and order?
dave		Depends on who's a-dishin' it out. Never was good at takin' orders meself. As for the law -- well, you'll soon find out what that means 'round these parts.
miss martin		Driver? Driver, what's the matter?
dave		Nothin'. Restin' hosses. Git out and stretch yore laigs if you want.
miss martin		Resting horses? What for? I can see with my own eyes it's downhill.
dave		You in such an all-fired hurry, lady?
miss martin		Certainly, we are in a hurry.
dave		 Well -- we'll hurry some.
miss martin		 Now what's the matter. Why are we stopping again?
pablo		 Buenas noches, senor.
rocklin		Buenas noches, amigo.
pablo		 Ha llegado anticipademente, senor.
rocklin		Tuvimos suerte en haber llegado.
dave		 We stop here.
miss martin		Why do we stop here?
dave		If you wanta eat and stretch yore laigs.
miss martin		Will you please stop referring to my legs!
dave		You got some, ain't you?
zeke		 Dave!
dave		 Why, Zeke, you two-legged old coot!
dave		Whar you been all these months?
zeke		Up in the hills workin' my way down the biggest hole you ever seed.
dave		Good -- What's at the bottom of it?
zeke		Nothin'!
dave		 What, again!!
stan		Good evening, ladies. How about something to eat?
miss martin		 Well -- if it won't take too long.
stan		 This way, ladies.
dave		Yep -- this is my last trip.
zeke		Why?
dave		Old Harolday won't take back what he said.
zeke		What'd he say?
dave		"You're fired."
stan		There you are, folks. Dig in and help y'rselves.
stan		Supper, Dave?
dave		 I'm drinkin' mine. Set 'em up.
clara		Auntie --
miss martin		With my dyspepsia? Do you want to kill me?
clara		Aren't you going to have any supper?
rocklin		Reckon so.
miss martin		Young man, that driver's had all the liquor he can take.
rocklin		Has he?
miss martin		You know he has. You're not a complete fool, are you?
rocklin		Frequently.
miss martin		 The rudeness of people in these parts is appalling!
bob clews		Doin' yourself well these days, Stan.
stan		A friend of mine was by an' sold me a quarter of beef.
jackson		 The same friend as sold you that hide Bob, here, found stashed in your barn yesterday?
stan		Hide -- What hide?
bob clews		The one that might send you to the penitentiary.
jackson		 What did you do with it, Stan?
stan		I never had no hide stashed --
bob clews		 I saw it yesterday under the hay.
stan		Then it must still be there.
jackson		No it ain't -- we looked -- Where is it?
stan		I tell ya --
miss martin		 What is all this?
jackson		Afternoon ma'am. Miz Caldwell ain't it?
miss martin		No -- Martin -- Miss Martin -- This is Miss Caldwell.
jackson		 Glad to know you, miss -- Been expectin' you at Santa Inez. I'm Sheriff Jackson. Any relation of Red Caldwell's a friend of mine.
bob clews		 You're sure gonna brighten things up considerable around the K.C. Ranch.
miss martin		 What's going on with him?
jackson		Just a little matter of the law.
bob clews		 Rustlin'.
miss martin		Wrestling?
bob clews		Rustlin' -- cattle stealin'.
miss martin		Oh -- a thief --
stan		 I tell ya I never --
bob clews		 Save it --
jackson		 Matter of fact -- Bob, here, says that the hide he saw yesterday had the K.C. brand on it.
miss martin		Oh -- hmmm -- well, what do you intend doing about it?
bob clews		 Law's pretty harsh 'round here on cattle thieves.
jackson		 Course, we don't want to make a mistake with an old-timer, but --
rocklin		How about the owner of that beef -- mightn't he have somethin' to say about it?
jackson		Meanin'?
rocklin		Red Caldwell -- he's the owner of the K.C., ain't he?
bob clews		 You're 'way behind the herd, mister -- Red Caldwell died three weeks ago.
miss martin		 Was murdered, you mean.
jackson		That's right -- shot in the back -- not far from here.
bob clews		 Maybe he was gettin' on to things about the cattle that's been missin' from the K.C. lately.
stan		I tell ya I ain't never had any hide --
bob clews		 Well, you got beef --
stan		 Yes -- an' I got a bill of sale fer it, too.
jackson		S'pose you let me see that bill of sale.
stan		 It's right out here.
jackson		Like I said -- I wouldn't want to make a mistake with an ole-timer.
dave		 She ain't got no laigs.
miss martin		Hold your tongue.  And you -- stop staring as if we were monsters.
dave		 Where's Stan? We got to have another drink.
rocklin		He's outside tryin' to explain away a hide.
dave		Eh?
rocklin		 Seems we're eatin' stolen beef.
dave		Somebody's loco. Stan might have given house-room to bit o' dead beef, but he'd never be fool enough to leave the hide lyin' around.  How 'bout it, Zeke?
bob clews		That's the way it is, Dave.
dave		 Oh -- it's you.
bob clews		That's right -- your old pal Bob Clews.
dave		 Git away from me -- you two-timin' horse thief.
bob clews		 Them's fightin' words, pardner.
dave		 Hey, Stan -- don't let 'em hang nothin' on you, you ain't done. They're just a couple of fourflushers -- the pair of 'em, everybody knows that.
jackson		Crazy drunk.
dave		 Mebbe I am drunk -- mebbe that's why I'm tellin' the truth -- I'm drunk an' I'll say what I think -- I'll say what I know.
zeke		So will -- I -- 
jackson		Don't act up this ways, Dave -- They's women watchin'.
dave		 Git your hands off me --
bob clews		 What he needs is a short lay-down.
rocklin		 I'll lend a hand.
jackson		 Careful now -- don't hurt him.
stan		 -- kinda winded him.
rocklin		Good thing you saved it.
miss martin		 What are you doing?
zeke		Musta been dreamin' -- Thought I was sittin' on a pot of gold.
stan		 There ain't no gold here.
zeke		 There ain't even a pot.
rocklin		How is he?
jackson		Went to sleep soon's we laid him down.  Sorry to have a ruckus in front of you ladies. Dave's an ornery old cuss when he gets goin' -- No shape to drive on, I'm afraid.
miss martin		 Hmmm --
jackson		Don't worry, ma'am. Bob, here, 'll take you on in -- knows every inch of the road -- Don't you?
bob clews		 You bet.
rocklin		I'm drivin'.
jackson		 But if anything was to happen to the ladies, I'd feel -- to blame.
rocklin		Don't.
jackson		You ladies want he should drive?
bob clews		I'll be more'n glad to accommodate you -- 
miss martin		 He's going with us anyway -- he may as well drive.
jackson		Anything you say, ma'am.
mexican		 Venga con migo, senor.
rocklin		 Did they do it?
mexican		 Si, senor. They hit him with a pistola.
rocklin		 His friends, eh?
stableman		What happened?
rocklin		Bumped his head.
stableman		 Where -- on Iron Mountain?
rocklin		Where's the best chance of a cheap room?
stableman		 There's Cap's place across the Street -- the Sun-Up Saloon.
rocklin		 I'll pick that up later.
miss martin		 This isn't the hotel.
stableman		No'm, lady. Hotel's up the street a piece.
miss martin		Are we expected to carry our bags at this time of night?
stableman		 Want to drive 'em on up?
rocklin		 Here -- catch aholt.
cap		Hey Doc!
cap's voice		Customer --
doc riding		 Take my hand, Sammy.
doc riding		What happened?
rocklin		Bumped his head.
doc riding		 Better get him upstairs.
rocklin		 Okay. You can book me a room, too.
dave		 No laigs.
doc riding		He'll be all right in the morning.
doc riding		How about a snort?
rocklin		Don't mind if I do.
cap		 Will he make it?
doc riding		Sure he'll make it. Can't kill off a salty old hairpin like Dave that easy.
cap		You're right. Reckon Saint Peter must be gitten' mighty tired of dustin' off that doormat for him.  By the way, how did you say it happened?
rocklin		 I didn't.
cap		 Sheriff Jackson it was and one of the Clewses.
doc riding		 Oh!
cap		Tough customers, the Clewses.
doc riding		Yeah -- don't pay to start something with 'em you don't intend to finish.
cap		 That's Bob Clews' brother. Jest done a stretch in pen 'tentiary for horse stealin'.
rocklin		They string 'em up for that where I come from.
doc riding		 Pity they didn't string him up while they wore about it.
cap		That's what Arly Harolday was sayin' only this mornin'.  You ain't met our Arly yet, I reckon?
doc riding		He will, if he stays here long enough. 
cap		Hell-fire in skirts.
doc riding		 Well, here's now.
clint		What did I tell you? They gotta be big to beat me!
cap		Clint Harolday's in luck tonight.
doc riding		They're certainly running for him. About time, too. He's taken a beating this last week would shake a better man.
sammy		Include me out.
clint		Aw -- come on. Can't you take it?
sammy		Not that sort o' luck, I can't. Besides, I on'y came in to oblige.
clint		 Come on, Doc. I still got to take something from you.
doc riding		 No more tonight, son. I've a full day ahead.
garvey		How about you, sir? Care to sit In? I'm warnin' you, though -- our young friend here has been holding phenomenal cards.
clint		 Have a heart, Judge. This ain't no two-bit saddle-tramp's game. This is for real money.
garvey		Fine! Oh -- this is Pap Fossler; Shorty Davis; Ab Jenkins; Mr. Harolday, and my name's Garvey -- Judge Garvey. I didn't get your name.
rocklin		I didn't give it.  Deal.
clint		Raise you twenty.
pap		 Table stakes, Clint.
clint		Not if he wants to dig.
garvey		 No place for me.
pap		Cards?
rocklin		One.
clint		 One for me.
rocklin		Don't you know that Queen is dead?
clint		I can take it if I want it.
rocklin		Sure -- if you want -- but you'll have to beat my hand with four cards.
clint		 I'm playing these, mister!
cap		 I'm not settin' in.
garvey		 Why don't you split the pot?
clint		I'm not splitting -- I'm betting!
clint		Are you calling?
rocklin		 No.
rocklin		I'm raising.
rocklin		Dig.
clint		 Let me have some money
pap		 You're in deep enough, Clint.
clint		 Full house.
rocklin		No good.  Kings up. Your third queen is dead.
clint		 You -- mister -- get away from that table. And get out of here. Maybe from now on you'll know a full house beats two pairs -- four-flusher!
clint		No man can run a bluff on me.
pap		 He wasn't armed.
cap		I don't like to tell men how to play cards unless I'm settin' in -- but I mebbe ought to have spoken up.  That Queen was dead, Clint -- and you know it.
clint		 When anybody plays poker with me, they play my game or not at all.
cap		You can't just go makin' your own rules, Clint --  -- an' if I was you I'd hightail outa here before he comes back.
clint		 Comes back?
cap		 He's the kind.
rocklin		 I've come for my money.
clint		 It's all yours, mister -- Cap, there -- Cap is an old gambler -- he says you were right all the time.
rocklin		By the way, Judge -- the name is Rocklin.
singer's voice		She was only a bird in a gilded cage... 
rocklin		How you feelin'?
dave		After that singin'? -- Thirsty. 
rocklin		How's your head?
dave		 Oh -- a mite hungover -- but I'll feel better once I git downstairs.
bob clews		I knocked, but guess you didn't hear me.
rocklin		 What do you want?
bob clews		 Looks like you stirred things up around here last night, stranger.
rocklin		That all you came to say?
bob clews		No. I got a message for you.  From Old Man Harolday. Wants to see you out front.
rocklin		What about?
bob clews		Maybe he wants to thank you for teaching that pup of his a lesson.
rocklin		 I'll be down.
dave		What's goin' on here?
pap fossler		Arly Harolday's on the warpath.
ad libs		Here he comes. Watch the fun. This should be good. Etc.
arly		 Is your name Rocklin?
rocklin		 Yes.
arly		 I want that money you took from my brother last night.
rocklin		 Are you crazy? Or just ignorant?
arly		 -- and I'm taking it back the same way!
arly		 Stop! You! stop, or I'll kill you!
arly		 Turn around.
rocklin		Whiskey!
clint		What happened?
arly		You lied to me, didn't you?
clint		I...
arly		Don't think I'll forget this. Making a fool of me in front of the whole town.
dave		Boy, oh boy, was that a near thing! She'd just as soon have hit you as missed. You don't know how lucky you were, son.
rocklin		Don't I?  Why d'you think I need this?
bob clews		Funniest sight I ever seen.
bob clews		 You broke it! You broke it!
rocklin		Try another trick like that on me and it'll be worse.
bob clews		I never played you no trick. You broke my wrist.
dave		 Oh boy -- has somebody come to town!
rocklin		 Where'll I find Judge Garvey?
cap		He rooms behind his office down the street. Don't usually pull up the blinds till around noon, though.
rocklin		 See you later, old-timer...
garvey		 Oh, come in, Mr. Rocklin. Come right in.
rocklin		I understand you were Red Caldwell's lawyer?
garvey		 I was.
rocklin		Know anything about this?
garvey		I don't understand. Job? What job?
rocklin		Foreman.
garvey		 But -- but why should he want you?
rocklin		Why not? Good foremen don't grow on bushes.
garvey		 Is that your only motive for coming here?
rocklin		What other motive could I have?
garvey		I don't know -- It's just that Red Caldwell was a peculiar man -- had a funny way of doing things.
garvey		Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Rocklin, that you've been brought all this way on a fool's errand, but -- I'm afraid the deal's off.
rocklin		Off?
garvey		I don't want to be too hard on you, but as executor of the estate I have to consider the interests of the new owner. How about, say, a hundred in full settlement?
rocklin		 Well --
garvey		That's my last word -- think it over.
garvey		 How do you do, ladies --
miss martin		 You are Judge Garvey, I presume.
garvey		 Yes -- and you are --
miss martin		Miss Martin -- and my niece, Clara Caldwell.
garvey		 Of course -- of course --
garvey		You came at a very opportune moment, madam. This gentleman claims to have some sort of a letter from the late Mr. Caldwell, engaging him as foreman of the "K.C."
miss martin		What!
rocklin		 What do you mean -- claims to have? -- You saw it, didn't you?
miss martin		 You can't hold us to account for every promise made by that man. Everyone knows he wasn't responsible for his actions half the time. And if you think I'd have you as a foreman --
rocklin		 Listen, lady -- I'd rather walk for somebody else, than ride for you.
miss martin		 Well -- the impudence --
rocklin		All I come for this morning was to pay beck the hundred and fifty Red Caldwell sent in advance.
clara		Oh, no
miss martin		Don't interfere, Clara. Of course he must pay it back.
rocklin		The railway fare -- well, I reckon we can check that up against the time lost and call it quits. 
clara		 But, Mr. -- er -- I don't know your name...
rocklin		 Rocklin, miss.
clara		Mr. Rocklin, it isn't fair for you to pay anything back.
rocklin		That's how I'd prefer it, If you don't mind, miss -- never did care fer owing favors to no one -- especially women.
clara		 Oh!
arly		I've just heard they let George Clews out of penitentiary and that he's headed this way. You might tell him from me, if he sets foot on the Santee Ranch, I'll shoot him on sight.
garvey		But really, Miss Arly, why should you deliver your message through me?
arly		You have mutual friends.
garvey		If you're referring to Sheriff Jackson...
arly		I am.
garvey		But that's absurd. The fact that he employs one of the Clews brothers doesn't make the other his friend.
arly		 Have it your own way; but it'd be fair to warn him, because I mean it.
garvey		 Oh, Miss Caldwell, this is Miss Harolday -- Miss Martin, Miss Caldwell's aunt. You should know one another, seeing you'll be neighbors. Miss Harolday runs the Santee Ranch for her stepfather. She's a famous -- ah -- horsewoman in these parts.
clara		 I know. I saw you ride into town this morning. You looked lovely. Just what I'd like to be.
arly		 Yes?
clara		 Oh, this is Mr. Rocklin. He drove us in from Garden City last night. He...
rocklin		 I already met Miss Harolday.
clara		Oh.
arly		 I've a message for you -- from Harolday.
rocklin		 What, again?
arly		He wants you to come down to the office.
rocklin		What for?
arly		He's got a proposition to make -- about riding for him. Sixty a month.
rocklin		Hmmm -- That's a foreman's wages.
arly		 And the way things are shaping, maybe we could do with somebody as mean as you around the ranch.
miss martin		 I warn you, you're making a great mistake. This man is no good.
clara		Auntie!
arly		 Well? D'you want the job?
rocklin		 Lead the way.
clara		 Auntie, why did you have to say that? I simply don't understand you...
miss martin		 I'd be ashamed of myself. Throwing myself at a man like that.
clara		I... I...  Oh, you're horrid -- horrid. I wish I'd never come.
miss martin		You must excuse her. She's young.
garvey		And inexperienced.
miss martin		 And young people must be protected from themselves at times -- don't you agree?
garvey		 Exactly.
rocklin		 Does he always follow you?
arly		 He's not following me -- he's with me -- he's always with me.
rocklin		 Oh -- just an old Indian friend.
arly		 The best friend I've got.
arly		 Wait here.
arly		I've just hired a man named Rocklin and said you made me do it. Sixty dollars and he 'll earn it -- while he lasts.
harolday		 Why did you do it, Arly?
arly		So I can fire him. I hate him. Clint and he quarrelled last night. Clint lied about it and I made a fool of myself.  He's outside now.
harolday		 All right. Send him in.
arly		 Come in.
harolday		Mr. Rocklin, what happened between you and my son last night?
rocklin		Poker.
harolday		Hmmm. About this suggestion of you working for me.
rocklin		It's your suggestion, not mine.
harolday		Ye-es. Sixty dollars is big money.
rocklin		 If you've changed your mind...
harolday		No, no.... Wait a minute. I take it you've had the experience.
rocklin		Enough for Red Caldwell to hire me as foreman.
harolday		Oh -- had Caldwell hired you?
rocklin		Yeah -- but I won't ride for the new owners -- so that leaves me open.
harolday		I see -- Were you a friend of Red's?
rocklin		No -- I guess he just heard about me.
dave		 George Clews is in town. He's seen what you done to Bob and he's a- lookin' for you.
harolday		The street is clear.
rocklin		 Tell him I'll be out in the street in front of the saloon.
dave		 Uh-huh!
george clews		I'm gonna get his ears.
dave		 Hi you, George Clews --
dave		Rocklin says if you don't come out, he'll come in here after you, an' tear you apart.
shorty		 That was my beer, you know.
george clews		 If he comes in again -- I'll throw you.
cap		 That does it, boys -- you know where the door is.
george clews		 Com-mon -- I'll get his ears.
cap		Not until I get my money --
cap		There's three drinks and a broken beer glass.
george clews		 Pay 'im.
george clews		I'll get his ears.
pap		 That Rocklin'll kill him for sure.
customer		Le's hope.
george clews		 I'm coming -- and you'd better run!
rocklin		 Draw a gun and I'll kill you.
jackson		 Hey, you! What's this you been up to?
rocklin		I just laid a gun barrel over the head of a drunk friend of yours -- same as you did over Dave's here yesterday.
dave		 Eh?
jackson		 I don't know what you're talking about.
rocklin		 You're a liar!
jackson		Now you lookee here, young feller. You go on talking that way and you'll find yourself in trouble.
jackson		Don't say you ain't been warned.
miss martin		 I saw you. I saw you strike that poor man.
rocklin		Yes, ma'am. As hard as I could.
miss martin		You ruffian, you!
miss martin		Let me go!  I knew the sort you were the moment I set eyes on you. You can't fool me! You're nothing but a common adventurer! Come, Clara!
rocklin		-- Now what was that you were sayin' about Caldwell?
harolday		You being hired by Red Caldwell only confirms what I'd suspected -- he was getting ready to fight.
rocklin		 Fight? Who?
harolday		Organized rustling. Well at least -- that's my belief. Red was no friend of mine. Too fond of taking the law into his own hands. But he had my sympathy. He'd been harder hit than any of us. And on top of it all, he lost his foreman.
rocklin		You mean, he quit on him?
harolday		He was shot -- in the back -- with a bullet from the same caliber rifle as got Red.
rocklin		Got any ideas?
harolday		No -- Except that the man you just pistol-whipped is in on it somewhere.  Pity you didn't kill him when you had the chance.
rocklin		Say -- it don't sound as if it's goin' to be too easy for them wimmen at the K.C.
harolday		 Want to go back and work for them?
rocklin		No, sir. And I ain't jumping at this offer o' yours either because I don't hold with working for wimmen.
harolday		 Oh, you mean my step-daughter. Well don't worry. She won't interfere with you...Rocklin -- I figure we've been losin' cattle over a place called Table Top -- it's the back way into the Topaz Ranch and the perfect route for rustlers -- I'm going to send you up to the line camp -- you don't mind working a lone hand -- do you?
rocklin		 -- I like workin' that way.
harolday		 Good -- be ready to move out this afternoon.
dave		 -- now Pap -- I'm givin' you first call on me services. They's lots of other folks lookin' fer a good man, too -- you know. So if you want me, you better hurry and speak up because --
dave		'scuse me, Pap -- Be right back to find out when I start.
dave		Whar you off to?
rocklin		I'm riding for the Topaz Ranch.
dave		What! -- Have you gone plumb loco?
rocklin		Good money -- sixty a month
dave		There ain't enough money in this town to make it worth your while to work for that gal.
dave		When she gits goin' she can be meaner'n a skillet full o' snakes. She ain't goin' to forget the way you made a fool of her today -- in front of the whole town.
dave		Be right with you.  It's pizen that's what it is -- jus' plain --- What you want to hang around this town for anyways? --
rocklin		Be right with you.
clara		Good afternoon, Mr. Rocklin.  Lovely day, isn't it?
rocklin		Reckon it is pretty nice. So you're moving in on the "K.C." eh?
clara		 We-el, not exactly moving in. You see...
miss martin		 Do you have to discuss our private affairs with every rag-tag-and-bobtail cow-person we meet, Clara?
clara		 Auntie!
rocklin		Sorry if I butted in, ma'am. Jest passing the time o'day.
miss martin		We can do very well without it -- thank you.  And you're keeping your lady friend waiting.
arly		 I thought maybe you'd changed your mind again.
rocklin		 Nope.
arly		 Juan'll show you the bunkhouse. I'll talk to you about your duties in the morning.
rocklin		How far is the line-camp at Table- Top?
juan		Twenty-five -- thirty mile.
rocklin		I'm moving out there first thing in the morning.  Boss' orders. Care to show me the way?
juan		I will show you.
juan		 Adios, Senor.
rocklin		 Senor Romerez, it appears that you do not like me.
juan		 Senor, that is true. I do not like you.
rocklin		Why?
juan		 Permit that I offer you a cigarette.
juan		It is not your fault that your shadow is black. But you will only bring unhappiness to my senorita. I do not blame you, but I fear I must hate you.
juan		Adios, Senor.
dave		Hiya there.
juan		Buenos dias, Senor Dave.  You have found new employer, eh?
dave		Yeah. Haulin' freight for ole Pap Fossler. Got a letter here for that crazy galoot, Rocklin. 
juan		But Senor Rocklin is not here.
dave		Lordy -- he ain't quit already...
juan		 I have just accompany him to Table- Top.
clint		 Have you seen Arly?
shelley		No, suh, Ah didn't see Miss Arly today, but Ah seed her las' night, and she shore was mad.
shelley		Plenty mad!
clint		 'Mornin', Arly --
arly		 'Mornin', Clint.
clint		 You must be feeling pretty good.
clint		 Say, Arly -- about that poker game, night before last, I ---
arly		 Forget it.
clint		 Forget it?
arly		 Tala.
arly		 Well --
clint		 What is this? --
arly		 What do you mean?
clint		What do I mean? --
tala's voice		Good morning, Arliete.
arly		Good morning, Tala.
tala		You have make yourself very pretty today.
clint		 See what I mean?
arly		Have my horse saddled and sent around right away -- will you?  You can have that Rocklin bring it.
arly		What's the matter?
tala		 Rocklin is not here.
arly		 He quit?
tala		He has gone to the line camp at Table Top.
arly		What?
tala		It was Mr. Harolday's orders.
tala		 Why do you make your heart heavy with thoughts of him, little one. -- He is not for you.
arly		 Be quiet.
tala		He has made the choice, Arliete. With your own eyes you saw it yesterday.
arly		 Oh --
tala		And she, too, has opened her heart to him -- Already she has summoned him to her.
arly		 What do you mean?
tala		Dave -- of the white beard -- carries a letter to Rocklin -- It is from her.
arly		How do you know that?
tala		I have just now met Dave, and he tell me. -- So now he rides to Table Top.
tala		Little one you --
arly		 Oh, leave me alone.
harolday		Good morning, Julio -- morning Arly.  Fetch my briefcase -- it's on my desk.
harolday		Looks like we're going to get that land we've been wanting along the river bottom.
harolday		I didn't tell you -- but I bought the mortgage on the Hardman ranch, and it's due today -- On my way over there now.
arly		Did you send that Rocklin to Table- Top?
harolday		I did.
arly		 Well, let's get things straight. This place was my mother's -- now it's mine and Clint's -- It's true you've been helping out -- but the way things are going we'll soon be able to pay you back every penny we owe. Meanwhile, I'm running this outfit and I expect to give the orders.
harolday		You generally do.
arly		Why did you send Rocklin up to Table- Top?
harolday		It seemed to me a good idea -- what with all this rustling going on --
arly		Who'd ever try driving cattle over Table-Top? -- Unless they were crazy.
harolday		 I don't agree with you. In any case -- if you must have it -- I'd no intention of engaging a man at foreman's wages just to gratify the whims of a jealous woman!
arly		 You take care what you're saying.
harolday		 It's you should take care, my dear. I'm afraid there's one man you can't rawhide into jumping the way you want. You've made a fool of yourself over him once. Better watch out you don't do it again.
dave		 Durn funny -- that storm quittin' just about the time I get here.
rocklin		No funnier than you sloggin' through it, just to deliver a letter from a woman.
dave		 Reckon I'm gettin' to be more of a fool the older I get.
dave		When are we gonna get around to readin' it?
rocklin		Thought I'd wait till mornin' -- might be bad news an' I wouldn't be able to sleep.
dave		Mmmm -- dineroo.
rocklin's voice		 Forgive me if this letter is a trifle incoherent, but I am terribly worried and unhappy.
dave		Who wouldn't be -- livin' with that ole screech owl.
rocklin		 I am desperately in need of help and advice from someone whom I feel I can trust, and I am appealing to you, because I regard you in the same way my Uncle surely must have. I heartily dislike and distrust Judge Garvey --
dave		 Huh -- Smart girl --
rocklin		 But my Aunt seems to have suddenly revised her opinion of him, and now wants me to place all my affairs in the Judge's hands and return east. Such is certainly not my wish.
dave		 Looks kinda like she's formed an attachment.
dave		 For the locality, I mean.
rocklin		 I wanted so much to give ranch life a trial, but fear circumstances are against me, especially in view of the recent Indian trouble --
dave		 Good Lord, they ain't been any Indian trouble around here in --
rocklin		 You want to hear the rest of this?
dave		 Might's well -- come this far.
rocklin		 I want to apologize for what took place this afternoon. And I am returning the 150, because I feel it is rightfully yours. You must take it. Faithfully yours, Clara Caldwell.
dave		 Well -- what do you make of it?
rocklin		Somebody's sure bustin' to get her out of there.
dave		Indian trouble --
rocklin		 Wonder why the old lady's playin' along?
dave		 Got to admit though, I feel a mite sorry for the young'un -- nice little tyke.
rocklin		Too nice for this country.
dave		 She's shore a pretty thing.
rocklin		Don't know how I could help her -- even if I wanted to -- I don't know any thing about this Garvey -- or Caldwell -- or --
dave		Well, now -- I could mebbe help you out some, there -- Fact, I could tell you somethin' 'bout ole Red that might be interestin'.
rocklin		You must have known him pretty well -- What kind of a man was he?
dave		Caldwell? -- The best -- cantankerous cuss -- but a real cowman, believe me -- He was a big feller, like yourself -- Fact, you coulda passed fer a blood relation, come to think of it.
rocklin		 Was the Judge and Red friends?
dave		 That's what you'd say. Garvey managed all Red's business. Besides which they was regular drinkin' pals -- played poker together most nights -- tho' they do say Red got the worst of it.
rocklin		Red was a gambler, eh?
dave		Oh, yeah -- reckon a pretty poor one, tho' -- still you'd say him and Garvey was friends.
rocklin		 Anything ever happen to make you think they weren't?
dave		 Rock -- I'm gonna tell you somethin' I ain't never told anybody.
rocklin		 Think you can trust me?
dave		The last time I seen Red was the day he died --
dave		-- 'Twas in town -- he jus' come out of the stage office. Tried to book passage to Garden City but couldn't on account I had a full load. -- Well, sir, he took me aside and give me a printed sheet of paper and says, "Read it." I looked it over and fer as I could see it was a paper from one of them Chicago sportin' firms, tellin' how to manipulate trick playin' cards.
rocklin		Marked cards.
dave		 Reckon so. -- Seems Red found some cards and this paper in a coat one of his friends loaned him one night.
rocklin		Whose was it?
dave		Well, now that's just what I asked -- but all he said, was that it belonged to a good friend. Then he said he wasn't waitin' fer the next coach, but was ridin' over to see the district judge about it alone.
rocklin		That's when they got him.
dave		Yes, sir -- 'bout a mile or so from Stan's place. A bullet in the back an' his pockets empty.
rocklin		How come you never told this before?
dave		Who was there to tell? -- Sheriff Jackson? -- Him an' Garvey's thick as thieves.
rocklin		How about what's his name -- Harolday? -- He's no friend of the Judge's, is he?
dave		Hates his guts -- sure riles him to see young Clint hangin' onto the Judge's coattails. All the same, I jus' decided to keep my mouth shut and my eyes open.
rocklin		 Even if it was Garvey Red was talkin' about -- it don't follow that he killed him.
dave		No -- general opinion is that it was rustlers.
rocklin		Why would rustlers take the evidence Caldwell had with him?
dave		Looks to me if you get the man who owned the marked cards, you get the killer.
rocklin		 Funny tho' -- first the K.C. foreman -- then Caldwell -- an' now these women.
dave		Lordy -- you ain't thinkin' somebody might try bumpin' them?
rocklin		 Remember, when we stopped to change horses on the way Over from Garden City --
dave		Shore -- you told me how Jackson and Clews tried to frame Stan.
rocklin		 Yeah. Like they wanted to be sure he'd keep his mouth shut about something.
dave		And layin' that gun across my skull -- an' offerin' to drive the coach themselves.
rocklin		 It was almost as if --
rocklin		 You all right?
dave		 Will be if I ever get dry.
rocklin		Lookit that --
dave		Good Lord --
rocklin		Come on --
dave		My team.
rocklin		That's not your team.
dave		Come on --
rocklin		No use -- he's gone.
dave		Mebbe we winged him.
rocklin		 Not bad shootin'.
arly		 You think I did that?
rocklin		Sure -- to draw us away from here.  You know, you cut it mighty close -- Good thing I ain't got brains enough to fill it.
rocklin		 Too bad you had to come 'way up here through that storm for nothin'.
arly		 -- because I came up to fire you.
rocklin		Oh --  I see.
arly		Get out of here -- get off the Santee and don't ever come back.
rocklin		Mind if I wait for Dave? He ought to be along any minute -- Be funny if he winged that shadow of yours.
arly		If you mean Juan -- you're loco. He's not even up here.
rocklin		 You came up alone?
arly		Yes.
rocklin		 Then who was that we took out after?
arly		The man who shot at you.
rocklin		Who was he?
arly		I don't know.
rocklin		You mean you won't tell.
arly		I mean I don't know -- Why should I lie to you?
rocklin		I guess you forgot -- you jes' fired me.
rocklin		 So long.
dave's voice		Hey, Rock --
dave		-- He got away -- but guess what, I --
rocklin		 You guess --
rocklin		 Come on.
dave		 Fer a man who's got a despise fer wimmin, you sure do get all snaggled up with 'em.
rocklin		 You work for Harolday?
rocklin		Here's one of his horses -- I'll pick up my saddle later.
rocklin		Howdy...
harolday		 I thought I sent you up to Table- Top.
rocklin		That's right.
harolday		 What happened?
rocklin		 Well, this, for one thing.
harolday		 I told you you'd regret letting that rat Clews off so easy.
harolday		What's the matter? Don't you think it was him, then?
rocklin		 I been figgerin'. Don't seem reasonable Clews was in condition to take that sort of chance alone... Besides -- how could he have known I was up there -- that soon. And -- George Clews ain't the only one I've run contrariwise to in this town. There's that Mexican, for instance.
harolday		Juan?
rocklin		He as good as told me yesterday that him and me was due for a run-in one of those days.  And then there's him!
rocklin		 Was what?
clint		 Was shot at last night.
harolday		 Any idea who might have done it?
clint		Not me.
clint		You ain't trying to pin it on me?  'Cause if you are, you're in for a big disappointment. I was over at the Sun-Up playing poker with the Judge and the rest of the boys till early morning. If you don't believe me, ask for yourself.
rocklin		 All right. I believe you. But that don't mean you couldn't tell a thing or two as would help -- if you wanted.
clint		 What d'you mean?
harolday		 Yes. What sort of thing would Clint here know about, that would help identify the man who tried to kill you last night?
rocklin		This for one.
rocklin		Ever seen it before?
harolday		 Well, go on -- speak up. Did you ever see it before?
clint		 Quit riding me! I don't know nothin' about it I tell you. Jest because I had a run-in with you over a game o' cards, that don't mean I'd sneak up on you in the dark and...
harolday		 He means trouble.
clint		 Aw, what do I care.
harolday		 Listen, I never did have much use for you. You're a poor specimen at the best; but as a would-be bad man you're nothing but a laughing stock. Why, the way you lied about that pouch just now wouldn't have deceived a six-year old.
clint		I...
harolday		 You'll find some money in the safe at the ranch. Take what you need and put the key in the desk drawer. Now get.
clara		Oh, Mr. Rocklin --
clara		I'm so glad I've found you -- I was on my way to the Santee and learned you were in town.
rocklin		 Just got in.
clara		I feel perfectly awful, running after you like this, but --
rocklin		You got trouble, eh?
clara		My aunt found out I wrote you and made a terrible scene --
rocklin		You haven't signed everything over to that Garvey, have you?
clara		No -- and because I refused, Auntie said she would sign an affidavit that I'm still underage, and then, as my guardian she can do what she likes.
rocklin		Got anything to prove you're not underage?
clara		 No -- but Mr. Garvey has a letter that would prove it. My aunt wrote it before we came out here.
rocklin		S'pose we could get it?
clara		He'd never give it to me.
rocklin		 Wait here.
clara		 You won't go getting yourself in trouble -- I -- I'd rather give up everything -- I mean --
garvey		That takes care of that --  Now, I'll draw up an affidavit right away and everything will be taken care of as we want it.
miss martin		 I certainly hope so -- it's not myself I'm concerned about --
garvey		 -- Of course not.
miss martin		I can't say I'm very happy about doing this -- I only hope it works out for the best.
garvey		It's the better choice of two evils -- now let's see --  It is Elizabeth, isn't it?
miss martin		Yes --
garvey		-- Elizabeth Martin, of Danvers, Massachusetts, do hereby --
garvey		 Well, Mr. Rocklin, this is indeed a surprise. Didn't expect to see you so soon. I understood you were riding for the Santee.
rocklin		 That's right.
garvey		 Perhaps you'd better come back later --
rocklin's voice		I came for that letter.
garvey		 Did you say letter?
rocklin		That's right -- the one Miss Caldwell's aunt wrote from out east sayin' she was of age. Remember?
garvey		No -- I'm afraid I don't.
garvey		What is your interest in this letter?
rocklin		My only interest is getting' it.
garvey		You realize what this is, don't you? -- Robbing -- armed robbery at that.
garvey		I warn you, you're in for a disappointment.
rocklin		Open up.
garvey		 There's nothing in there that'd interest you.
rocklin		 I'd like to make up my own mind about that.
garvey		 All right -- I'll open it -- just to convince you I'm not hiding any letter.
garvey		What's the idea?
rocklin		These cards --
garvey		 Anything wrong in a man having cards in his possession?
rocklin		Depends on what kind they are -- 'specially when they're under lock and key.
garvey		 You're taking those, I presume.
rocklin		That's right.
garvey		 Now, you look here --
rocklin		 You're the one who better start lookin' -- lookin' for a way out for killin' Red Caldwell.
garvey		 Caldwell --
rocklin		 He found out about these -- and you went and killed him.
garvey		 And you believe a story like that?
rocklin		I will until I hear a better one.  I'll just take this along -- the district judge at Garden City should be mighty interested.
dave		Say -- looks like you two been disagreein' 'bout somethin' --  He ain't daid, is he?
pap fossler		Not permanently, I don't reckon. -- What happened, anyways?
dave		 You musta found out somethin'.
pap fossler		 I reckon the Judge did, too.
miss martin		Oh, dear -- dear -- are you hurt?
garvey		 Get out of my way --
miss martin		 I'll have you understand I --
dave		-- Find out who owns that tobaccy pouch yet?
rocklin		 No -- but get hold of Clint Harolday.
dave		Clint -- Is he in on it?
rocklin		Can't say for sure -- Bring him to the Sun-Up, and don't take no for an answer.
arly's voice		-- So now you know the truth. And if you think you can steal him away from me, you're welcome to try it.
clara		 Did you get it?
rocklin		No -- but I don't think it's gonna matter much -- you go on back to the K.C. and I'll be out in the mornin' and take you with me to Garden City to see the district judge.
clara		But I hate putting you to that trouble.
rocklin		No trouble at all -- I'm going anyway.
arly		 You look like you've been fighting.
rocklin		 What are you doin' here?
arly		I was just telling Miss Caldwell about -- well -- you and me.
rocklin		 What about, you an' me?
clara		 I think I'd better be going...
rocklin		 What all has she been tellin' you?
clara		 Oh -- oh, really I'd rather not --
arly		 -- and I dare him to deny it.
rocklin		Deny what?
clara		That she was with you last night at the cabin in the mountains.
rocklin		Well -- why should I deny it?...
arly		 And didn't you make love to me?
rocklin		 Make love to you --
arly		 You didn't kiss me -- I suppose?
rocklin		Did you expect me to deny that, too?
arly		 You see?
rocklin		 Now, maybe you ought to hear what I've got to say --
clara		Please -- you needn't explain. After all, it really isn't any of my business, is it?
rocklin		 You little --
arly		 Just like a man.
rocklin		If there wasn't a lady here, I'd do more to you than swear.
clara		I don't know how I can ever thank you for trying to help me. I do appreciate it ever so much --  Don't think too harshly of me, will you -- I --
arly		 She's lovely, isn't she? -- So sweet -- honest, and helpless.
arly		Pity you didn't fall in love with her, instead of me.
rocklin		You might's well know right now that you or no woman is ever goin' to get me.
arly		Don't be so sure -- I don't think I'm doin' so badly.
rocklin		Don't you?
arly		Don't you know?
rocklin		I know there ain't a dirty trick you wouldn't play to get what you want.
arly		 I always get what I want.
arly		-- See?  -- 'Bye now --
miss martin		 Whatever is to become of you?
miss martin		Have you no sense of pride, or decency? Throwing yourself at that -- that wretch, like any shameless hussy.
miss martin		I thought we'd done with him -- but no -- you have to run to him and tell him all our business --
miss martin		Don't you dare deny it -- you know very well you told him about that letter I wrote Mr. Garvey.
miss martin		Didn't you? --
miss martin		Didn't you?
garvey		Tell Miss Martin that I'll take care of everything.
sammy		-- You take clare of evelything.
rocklin		Come in --
dave		Here he is, Rock. Caught him jist in time near the Santee. Headed fer out, I'd say.
rocklin		Sit down, Clint.  How about goin' down below an' havin' one on me?
dave		 Well, now -- that's right thoughtful -- Holler if you need me.
clint		 What's this all about?
rocklin		 It ain't gonna do you any good to get all het up and tough, kid --
rocklin		I just want to ask you a few questions -- that's all.
clint		I told you once, I don't know who owns that pouch-- and I don't know who shot you.
rocklin		 Forget it -- that's not what I want to talk to you about, anyway.
clint		 Well, what do you want to talk about? Come on, get it over with.
rocklin		Clint -- I want you to tell me why Garvey murdered Red Caldwell --
rocklin		You know -- don't you?
clint		 Me? No!
rocklin		Oh yes you do.  And you're going to tell me all about it.
clint		I don't know nothing, I tell you -- I --
rocklin		Talk!
clint		I tell ya, I...
rocklin		 Talk!
clint		 No! No, don't!
ad libs		What happened? Who is it? Clint Harolday -- Etc.
pap fossler		Where's Doc Riding?
ad libs		Get the Doc. Hey, Doc -- He was down below. Here he is.
ad libs		Look out, men -- Let the Doc through. Etc.
doc riding		 Somebody better fetch Harolday.
cap		Shorty's already gone for him.
pap fossler		 Better get Arly, too.
voice		She was at the hotel a while ago.
pap fossler		 He was only a kid.
jackson's voice		What's goin' on here -- gang way --
jackson		What's the trouble here --
jackson		 Hand over that gun.
rocklin		Just a minute, now --
rocklin		 I know it looks bad -- but I didn't kill the kid.
dave		I believe you.  His gun was layin' over there on the floor when I come in and --
rocklin		 No it wasn't -- It was right in my hand -- like it is now.
jackson		If you didn't know him -- then who did?
rocklin		I don't know --  But I'm going to find out.
harolday		 Where is he? -- Where's my boy?
harolday		 You murderer.
rocklin		I didn't do it, Mr. Harolday.
harolday		 Then who did?
voice		 He had a gun in his hand when we come in.
garvey		 And I'll bet it's the same one the bullet that killed Clint came out of.
harolday		Well, what do you say to that?
rocklin		He's right.
garvey		You admit it.
rocklin		Yeah -- but that still don't say I killed him.
ad libs		Aw, take him away -- Liar -- Lock him up, Sheriff -- The yellow-bellied -- Etc.
arly		 Why did you do it?
rocklin		I didn't.
garvey		He admits it was his gun that shot him.
arly		 But you didn't fire it.
rocklin		That's right.
arly		What happened?
rocklin		 Clint and me was having a bit of an argument.
arly		 What about?
rocklin		 For instance -- who it was shot Red Caldwell.
jackson		Caldwell!
rocklin		 And the K.C. foreman. And who took that shot at me up at Table-Top last night. And why certain people are so anxious to get rid of the Caldwell girl.
pap fossler		How would Clint know about all that?
harolday		 He's lying. He's trying to cover up for killing my boy.
jackson		 Quit stalling, Rocklin.
arly		Wait a minute -- he's get a right to be heard.  Well, we're listenin'.
rocklin		Well -- Clint was getting' all set to talk, when -- somebody snuck up along the verandah there and pulled the gun out o' my belt...  ... and let him have it.
ad libs		What a story! What an alibi! String him up, the heel! Etc.
jackson		 You'll have to think up something better than that Rocklin.
garvey		 Don't be a fool, Rocklin. You know you can't get away with a yarn like that. Why don't you save yourself and everyone else a lot of trouble by surrendering to the Sheriff? After all, it isn't such a crime in these parts to kill a man in self-defense.
rocklin		Self-defense?
garvey		Everyone knows what Clint was like. He probably lost his head and pulled a gun on you, like he did at the Sun- Up that night. Wasn't that it?
rocklin		 If I got to be shot for knowing too much, it ain't going to be in the back, in a framed-up jail-break.
arly		But if someone's trying to kill you, why didn't they do it just now? Why did they have to kill Clint?
rocklin		Guess they wanted to get Clint, too. Doin' it this way they get us both. Clint first -- an' me afterwards -- like I jus' said.
pap fossler		Quit fancy talk. Who's "they?"
rocklin		I might be able to tell you that later.
jackson		 No you won't -- because you're comin' with me.
rocklin		 Am I?
rocklin		The first one that moves -- gets it.
harolday		 Well, Sheriff -- you certainly are to be congratulated.
jackson		 Look, Mr. Harolday -- you saw what happened --
garvey		 Never mind that -- Let's get going for Garden City -- that's where he's headed for.
harolday		You sure?
garvey		I'm positive.
arly		 Where do you think he's gone?
jackson's voice		All right, men -- follow me --
dave		I mighta knowed you'd do somethin' like this.  What are we doin'?
rocklin		Headin' for the K.C.
miss martin		 Now -- what is it?
george clews		The name's Clews, ma'am -- Mr. Garvey sent us out --
bob clews		 Said you were expectin' trouble with that Rocklin.
miss martin		I am.  -- But I'm wondering if you're up to it. I noticed you didn't fare so well with him yesterday.
bob clews		He was drunk --
george clews		 Yeah -- But I'm sober now.
miss martin		Well, see that you stay that way.
george clews		Don't worry, ma'am -- I've jus' bin waitin' to get even with that saddle- bum.
bob clews		 We'll be close-by.
george clews		 You bet.
jackson		Seen anybody ridin' hard for Garden City.
zeke		Bin on the road since sundown -- ain't seen a livin' soul -- be he man or beast.
jackson		He mighta taken the cutoff through Jaw Bone Canyon.
harolday		After that storm? -- He'd never make it.
garvey		There's only one other place he might have gone -- the K.C.
jackson		You think so?
garvey		 I'm positive.
harolday		That's what you said before.
jackson		 To the K.C., men.
arly		 Take me through the canyon.
juan		It is dangerous, senorita.
arly		But if we get through we'll beat them to the K.C.
juan		You would risk your life for Senor Rocklin?
arly		Afraid?
julio		Only for you -- you must not do this -- I will go through from here alone.
arly		No, -- we're going through together.
rocklin		You can ease up now.
dave		We're just about there.
bob clews		 Hey, George -- George, get up.
miss martin		 You vile, ungrateful strumpet -- running away in the night, like a deceitful sneak-thief --
clara		 Yes -- I'm running away -- and it's all your fault -- you're the one who's been deceitful and sneaking -- and don't think I don't know what you intend doing.
miss martin		 -- And don't think I don't know what you intend doing.
clara		 I don't care -- I'm not ashamed of it -- and nothing you can say or do is going to stop me.
miss martin		 You little fool -- if you go to Garden City with that man -- you stand to lose everything.
clara		 But why? -- Why are you being so secretive? -- If you know something, why don't you tell me?
dave		 Yeah -- why don't you? --
miss martin		 All right, I'll tell you -- Rocklin is a nephew of the late Mr. Caldwell. And, as nearest of kin, he stands to get everything -- according to the will. Because you are not the old man's niece, but only his grand-niece.
clara's voice		And you and Mr. Garvey knew the truth all the time?
dave		-- And you knew the truth all the time, too -- didn't you? -- No wonder you stuck around --
rocklin		Get in here and take care of her.
george clews		Come on --
julio		 You are crying, senorita --?
arly		 No.
julio		 It is too bad we lose your horse. She was good horse, for sure.
arly		If only we make it in time.
clara		-- And I heard one of them tell my aunt not to worry, that he was just as anxious as she was to get even with you.
dave		 This is the only way I could handle her.
rocklin		The Clews are around here some place -- Garvey sent 'em out.
george clews		You bet we're around.
george clews		 Untie her.
bob clews		 Untie her.
miss martin		 I'll take part in this -- you -- you hairy beast.
miss martin		Help me get her to the bed.
george clews		 What'll we do with 'em?
miss martin		Take them in to Mr. Garvey and tell him I must see him at once.
bob clews		 We'll dump them right in the Judge's lap.
miss martin		 Hadn't you better tie him, too?
george clews		 Get some more rope.
george clews		Get our horses and meet me at the gate.
george clews		 What are you doin' with that gun, Arly?
arly		Get down from there before I show you.
arly's voice		Neither is it yours -- Get down out of there -- before I knock you down.
arly		-- And they're headed this way and should get here any minute --
arly		Where'd you get this?
rocklin		 That belongs to the man who shot at me on Table-Top -- Dave found it.
arly		 You've got to get away -- they'll be here -- they'll catch you --
arly		 You've got to stop him -- he's got to get away.
dave		 Come on -- let's git goin' --
rocklin		 Where's the girl?
dave		Back at the house --
rocklin		We've got to get her.
arly		You haven't time -- they're coming -- don't you believe me? --
rocklin		 Come on --
dave		 You're puttin' a rope around your neck --
arly		Get him --  -- out of sight, and follow me.
dave		 But what'll we do with the ole lady?
rocklin		Anything you like.
dave		I'd like to pizen her.
arly		 Look.
arly		Come on.
miss martin		If you'll just take this -- you'll go to sleep --
jackson		Evenin' ma'am -- hate to bother you like this, but --
miss martin		 -- Why -- what are all these people doing here?
garvey		We're after Rocklin -- has he been here?
miss martin		 Oh yes -- here and gone.
jackson		What!
garvey		 Gone --
miss martin		 Yes -- the two men you sent out are taking him and that horrid old man back to town.
garvey		The Clewses -- funny we didn't see them.
jackson		Somethin' musta gone wrong -- We better fan out and see what's goin' on.
miss martin		 Don't leave, Mr. Garvey -- I've got to talk with you, privately --
garvey		But, madam --
miss martin		It's very important.
harolday		We'll go on and meet you in town.
garvey		Perhaps you'd better.  I'll meet you in town, Jackson.
jackson's voice		Right -- come on, men.
garvey		 -- And you're positive he knows everything?
miss martin		Absolutely everything -- He was standing at the window all the time -- the scoundrel.
rocklin		 You better get back on the bed -- in case they come in here.
miss martin		If you were to ask me, I think the best thing to do is --
garvey		 I'm not asking you -- and don't bother me with your silly questions -- we've got to do something besides talk.
miss martin		 You mean -- you have to do something.
miss martin		-- This was all your idea, remember.
garvey		 My idea -- that's all you know about it.
rocklin		If there's anybody else in on it -- speak up, Judge.
miss martin		Well -- I do declare --
rocklin		 Talk.
dave		 Not you.
rocklin		 Ever see that before?
garvey		 No -- it's not mine.
rocklin		Tell me whose it is.
garvey		 No -- no -- I don't know --
arly's voice		Drop that gun.
arly		 He was just getting ready to finish you off, through that window.
rocklin		 You seem to like to do business through windows, Mr. Harolday.
rocklin		You're not Clint's killer, by any chance --
arly		 Juan saw you do it.
rocklin		Well, now we're gettin' some place --
arly		That pouch is his --  Didn't you?
rocklin		 Why did you kill Caldwell?
garvey		-- Harolday wanted the K.C. like he wanted the Santee and the Hardman place, for his land scheme -- He planned on breaking up the ranches into small holdings and selling to dirt farmers. He pretended to be on the outs with me so I could get Caldwell's confidence. And when Red caught me with the crooked cards and threatened to expose me -- Harolday shot him.
rocklin		Why did he kill Clint? An' not me?
garvey		That shot was an accident -- it was meant for you. We planned on getting the women to let me handle their business --
miss martin		 You vile -- wicked -- despicable --
rocklin		When he wakes up -- we'll have him put everything on paper.
dave		Well, you'll have to do the writin' -- 'cause I don't know how to write.
clara		 Oh, Mr. Rocklin -- please -- I think Auntie is out of her mind -- she's in her room -- laughing.
dave		 What that ole pelican needs is a good spankin'.
arly		 And I'll bet you're just the one who can do it.
dave		 I know I am.
rocklin		I guess there's no rush for you to get to Garden City, now --
clara		No -- I don't suppose there's any -- rush --
clara		 If I was like her, I'd stay in the West.
rocklin		That means you're goin' back East -- Cousin Clara?
clara		 It's where I belong -- I know that now --
rocklin		It's good to know where you Belong, I reckon -- Wish I knew.
clara		 I can tell you -- you belong with her --
rocklin		 Thanks.
arly		For what?
rocklin		Everything.
arly		 Beautiful day.
rocklin		 It didn't start out so beautiful.
arly		That's true of lots of things.
rocklin		Fer instance?
arly		 Well -- you and -- me.
dave		 Hey, Rock -- Rock -- get out your pencil and paper --
dave		 Doggone it -- here Garvey is back in this world -- an' they're out of it.
****Dialogues from script :Tamara_Drewe.txt****

glen		Crap. He deletes it. He looks at his blank screen, breathing deeply. The only words left say `Chapter Six'.
casey		`I've been wearing the wrong size all my life,' said Katie. `I was always popping out. Turns out I'm a 30GG,' she says. `Now my bras finally fit - though Simon prefers me without one.' Jody checks to see if her breasts have grown. She sighs.
beth		Do you think I should be reminding them to drink enough? It's very hot out there...
mary		Beth - they're writers, not babies. You run round after `em too much.
beth		Can I tempt you, Glen?
glen		Wow, thanks. Glen picks up a scone.
beth		I often take something snacky down to Nicholas at this time of day. I know how the brain needs feeding. How are you settling in?
glen		Great. The last writer's retreat I stayed at kind of froze my balls off, you know?
beth		Oh.
glen		Screeching firedoors, curried lasagne and a needy poet - from whom I still bear the scars.
beth		We try to keep it peaceful here; far from the madding crowd.
glen		Well, it's paradise.
casey		Frock horrors. This weeks top of the shocks goes to Katie Pound in an off the shoulder lime by Roberto.
jody		She looks like a bug.  Wankers!
casey		You wanna sack your stylist girl.
jody		Bet they did that on purpose, dressed her up like an insect. Casey agrees. They zoom away.
glen		Perfect harmony.
nicholas		In Ewedown? Nadia, what the ffff are you doing there? I haven't told her yet.
nadia		Why not? You keep saying you want to be with me. Jody and Casey are all ears.
nicholas		I can't tell her just like that. It's twenty five years; a marriage.
nadia		Come on Nicholas. Or I'm going to get in a taxi and find your farm. Come up there and -
nadia		Drag you out -
nadia		I want to be with you. I thought you'd be pleased...
nicholas		Of course I'm pleased... Nadia, go to the pub and stay there. I'll come when I can.
nadia		Are you going to tell her?
nicholas		Just give me a couple of hours - He ends the call just as Beth is nearing the door - panicking the phone back on to its holder.
beth		How's the worker?
nicholas		Good actually. Just about to embark on forensics.
beth		Well give me your pages and I'll get started. Nicholas hands her several pages.
nicholas		Reckon I might pack it in a bit early today. Need to think about my blood smears. Might take a drive; have a pint. Stir the old grey matter up.
beth		Who were you talking to just then?
nicholas		Judy. She says the Impala contracts should be through in a day or two.
beth		I could come with you.
nicholas		What?
beth		For a drive. I don't know when we last went out. Buying time by biting his scone:
nicholas		This is absolutely yummy.
beth		We could go into Hadditon, get a meal.
nicholas		Yes but. What about the guests?
beth		Mary's got Casey to help.
nicholas		But I'm supposed to be thinking, you know about the -
beth		You can run it by me. I'm good at forensics. Nicholas has run out of excuses.
beth		Can I tempt you, Andy? Andy takes a scone with a wide smile.
andy		Needs an expert yokel, does he?
beth		Would you mind? And the writers are eating al fresco tonight; could you check there's no bird shit on the seats? Sorry. Beth looks distant, troubled.
andy		You OK?
beth		Yes. Nicholas and I are going out to dinner. As she walks away, Andy glances at the shed, a look of puzzled dislike on his face.
glen		It's paradise...
jody		Fucking bingo! Jody and Casey run away, laughing.
tamara		What a dump. As she drives away, we see Nadia sitting outside the pub in her urban heels, anxiously smoking a cigarette.
jody		We could walk up the garage.
casey		I'm supposed to be helping my mum up at Stonefield.
jody		They keep you busy.
casey		Yeah.
jody		You never stop, you! Neither of them moves. The boys are yelling. Two try to put the third head first into the bin outside the shop. Jody and Casey are not impressed.
glen		It was called `From Hearth to Heath - Doomsday and Revelation in Victorian verse.'
tess		Did it sell?
glen		Well my kind of books aren't about sales. I mean that's not why I write. So... no.
tess		What are you working on next? Upstairs, through a window, we see Beth is putting on a blouse.
glen		Thomas Hardy.
diggory		Is there anything left to say about that maudlin bore?
glen		Excuse me but there is nothing dull about Hardy. That is a misconception.
tess		At least you've been published. I'm seething with envy; I'd love to be published.
eustacia		I publish myself on the internet.
tess		Oh, do you earn money doing that?
eustacia		No.
glen		So what do you write?
eustacia		Lesbian crime.
beth		But I'm ready. Come on. She's on her way to join him.
nicholas		Is that - I mean - are you wearing that?
beth		Oh.
nicholas		Just looks a bit... hot. Now Beth knows she is right. She takes her jacket off, gutted.
beth		Who is she? The question hangs in the air. Nicholas' smile is frozen.
nicholas		What? For a moment, he tries to find a lie.
beth		Tell me. Who?
nicholas		Look, it's nothing. It's been once or twice, that's all. Beth, it's not anything. Beth is raw with pain.
beth		 Who is she?!
beth		What's her name?
nicholas		Nadia, Nadia Patel. This hits a nerve.
beth		Patel? She's in your book.
nicholas		No, no I met her when I was on Desert Island Discs.
beth		You put her in your book!
nicholas		Just the name.
beth		And Desert Island Discs was a year ago.
nicholas		Yes but -
beth		Once or twice?
nicholas		I was going to tell you but - Beth utters an inchoate cry.
tess		Shhh!... Beth's pained voice drifts out of the house.
beth		How can you lie to my face?
nicholas		Can we talk calmly about this? There are people out there -
beth		You look me in the face and LIE!
nicholas		For God's sake; we're surrounded by
beth		You BASTARD!
nicholas		Beth, we're like a pair of compasses...
beth		Don't you dare -
nicholas		Joined solidly at the top but with the ends able to roam, in freedom - His phone beeps.
beth		That's from her isn't it? Are you keeping her waiting? Nicholas finally snaps.
nicholas		We've talked a lot about the creative mind and we agreed that it needs freedom to explore!
beth		 Take your freedom. I can't live like this any more. It makes me feel WORTHLESS!
nicholas		Calm yourself down!
beth		Is she young?
nicholas		For heaven's sake.
nicholas		Beth... For a moment, she hopes he'll apologise.
nicholas		You're making fools of us both. Beth, tears stinging, picks a plant out of the tub by the door and hurls it, roots and all. It's a direct hit.
beth		Liar. Glen cringes. Beth slams the door. Nicholas wipes soil off his glasses; brushes it off his shirt. He realises with a sinking heart that he must pass the writers to get to his car.
diggory		I didn't know they provided material too.
nadia		Thought you weren't going to come.
nicholas		I was busy. Rowing with my wife.
nadia		Where are we going?
nicholas		Home.
nadia		To your farm? A look of frustration crosses his face. He turns to her.
nicholas		We could have gone on just as we were.
nadia		But you said you wanted to be with me...
nicholas		Yes. In London. Now and then. Nadia looks at him. The scales are beginning to fall. They get in the car. As they drive away, Tamara's car pulls up. She gets out of the car and takes in the pub before entering.
tamara		Big glass of rioja please. And I need a room.
zoe		Sure, how many nights?
tamara		Don't know. Just one. Zoe pours the wine. She's disarmingly friendly.
zoe		You here on business?
tamara		No. Business of a kind.
zoe		I don't mean to pry; I'm just really nosey.
tamara		I'm from here. Sort of.
zoe		Nice place. Tamara smiles her disagreement.
tamara		My mum's house is just up the road.
zoe		You're not staying with her?
tamara		She's. She died. Zoe finishes pouring the wine.
zoe		Have that on me. And here's your key. Up the stairs, right in front. You can't miss it. Tamara utters her thanks, surprised at Zoe's kindness. She takes her drink and the key upstairs. Zoe remains, grinning. We see why. Andy Cobb has just walked in. Zoe pulls him a pint.
andy		Bit of an atmosphere at Stonefield.
zoe		Tell me everything... Andy shakes his head.
andy		Marriage. Remind me never to try it.
zoe		Andy, you're just a sex object. No one'd have you. He grins back at her.
glen		So the Hardiments have lived here centuries, huh?
andy		No, `bout twenty years. Still strangers by local standards. Beth comes in, tense, anxious and haggard.
beth		Andy, come and look at Ingrid. I think she's coming into heat. She goes out.
glen		She's a nice lady.
andy		Yeah, I owe her a lot.
glen		Husband's a sleazebag, huh?
andy		We'd say prick here actually. Or wanker.
andy		That's good too.
beth		This is going rotten underneath.
andy		Shall we look at Ingrid?
beth		It's falling apart.
andy		I can do that. Beth... Andy takes the shovel. Beth bites back tears.
nicholas		 I told you. I love my wife. Don't ever phone me again. Glen is shocked by this duplicity.
nicholas		Beth...
nicholas		I'm sorry.
beth		Not good enough. Not any more.
nicholas		I'm sorry.
beth		You do what you like and then you're sorry?
beth		Where were you?
nicholas		Drove her back to London. Took all night.
beth		You drove her home?
nicholas		She was in a state.
beth		Do you think she'll get over it?... Nicholas shrugs. To Glen's horror, he starts to cry.
nicholas		I'm sorry. Then Beth is sobbing too. They are in each other's arms, holding each other.
beth		I've got to go to the bottle bank.
nicholas		OK... Let's talk later.
beth		Yes. The goat's come into heat.
nicholas		Has it?
beth		I love you so much.
nicholas		Me too. Beth goes. Nicholas is watching her; his expression strange. He walks away. At last Glen emerges, incredulous at Nicholas' lies.
glen		I've just seen the Hardiments kiss and make up.
glen		Looks like she's taking him back.
diggory		When the hat is on, it means don't speak.
glen		I don't like cows. I mean really. They exude bovine malice.
andy		Yeah, these girls are killing machines. They don't like Americans either.
glen		Very funny.
andy		It's Winnards Farm. Lady there died a while back. Place is empty.
glen		You think it's being robbed?
andy		Prob'ly just kids. Nothing to do round here except make trouble.
glen		What if it's bad guys? Don't you have a blunderbuss or a fowling piece or something? They climb up through a copse.
andy		Used to belong to my dad, this place.
glen		Really?
andy		But it all went tits-up. Land was flogged to a consortium and the house was sold to Londoners; the Drewes.
glen		So this is your ancestral pile?
andy		Was. Born in that room up there. He points up at the back bedroom window.
glen		You must have been pretty resentful.
andy		Hey.
andy		This farm's mine, big nose.
andy		Hey, what're you doing? Tamara gives the alarm box a great whack.
tamara		Andy, you moron; it's me. Andy looks more closely. A disturbing spark of recognition.
andy		Tam?... Hardly recognise you. Another whack. The noise becomes a high-pitched squeal.
tamara		Then help me!
andy		Used to do bits of work for your mum. Been keeping an eye on the place since she died.
tamara		What sort of work, graphics?
andy		I do horticulture now.
tamara		You're a gardener? Andy says nothing. He stares at her nose. Glen has come in.
glen		This is a great old house.
tamara		Would you like to buy it?
glen		I'm not really the property-owning kind. Prefer my life to fit into hand luggage.
andy		That's why you're back, to flog it?
tamara		Yes.
andy		Make a nice second home for some banker wankers.
tamara		Andy if you want it, why don't you make me an offer?
andy		Because sadly I'm still prey to the economic forces that threw the peasant classes off the land.
tamara		Unlucky. Tamara opens a cupboard. It's full of empty wine bottles.
andy		Tam. Their eyes meet.
andy		You should find someone you're in love with.
tamara		You stupid prick. Andy looks at her. She is sincere.
andy		You saying you love me, frosty tits?
tamara		You first.
andy		You say it; You're the girl.
tamara		Fuck off. She kisses him. As they start to make love:
beth		Thinking of the first time we saw this place...
nicholas		You've made it a wonderful home Beth.
beth		Not wonderful enough. She starts to walk away. Nicholas holds her back.
nicholas		If you can't put this behind you, then we're stuck.
beth		Well I'd better sort myself out then.
nicholas		What has to happen? I am sorry - Beth brings her arm up to push him away. Nicholas catches it; draws her to him. He kisses her insistently. Beth's resistance diminishes. Soon it has gone. We begin to see the depth of Beth's physical love for him. At that moment, Glen walks round the corner. He tries to backtrack, mortified by his intrusion on their passion. Too late. They part. Nicholas turns away in frustration.
glen		Just taking the air. Flustered, he knocks into a tub of lobelias. Beth and Nicholas remain. The moment between them is gone. Round the corner, Glen is cringing.
jody		Would you do him?
casey		No.
jody		What about him?
casey		He's gay, you dobbin.
jody		So? They turn to a big spread on a band called Swipe.
casey		Swipe.
jody		Ben Sergeant... I'd walk through fire to do him.
casey		The drummer?
jody		He's not just the drummer. He writes the lyrics; it's his band. He's the fucking genius, not Steve Culley or any of these wankers. It's Ben.
casey		OK. I'd do Ben.
jody		I wanna be her, in that dress with him licking my teapot lids.
casey		Yeah... me too.
nicholas		So has the muse shone on you, Greg?
glen		I've been pretty distracted. Most recently by those delicious cookie things that Beth brought round this afternoon.
nicholas		Oh yes. Of course we call them biscuits here.
glen		And by the place itself, the people.
nicholas		Sometimes wish I could get distracted. Ten page a day man, rain or shine.
glen		Wow, that's scary. Ten pages; how do you do that?
nicholas		Well, Greg -
nicholas		I wouldn't presume to give an academic tips.
glen		Matter of fact I read one of your books. Another distraction but I thought it was decent stuff.
nicholas		Well. He's offended.
glen		`We call them biscuits, here.' Nicholas raises his glass for a toast.
nicholas		To the muse, however you find her. He is looking at Beth. She is gratified. Then his eye shifts, his glass still in the air.
glen		That's Tamara Drewe.
nicholas		No it isn't.
glen		I met her with Andy.
nicholas		Good God. What's happened to her?
poppy		She's had a nose job, Dad.
nicholas		She's completely different.
glen		That's what Andy said.
beth		Poor Tamara. Such a sad girl. She used to come and help you wash the car, didn't she Nicholas? I think she liked a bit of family after her dad left.
tess		Is that Tamara Drewe who writes the column in one of the Sundays?
beth		Used to. Writes for the Independent now.
tess		She spent weeks going on about her nose job. Smart way to pay for it I suppose. Was her old one an awful conk?
nicholas		Yes.
beth		She's poured herself into those shorts. I hope they don't give her thrush.
tess		What's the etiquette with nose jobs? Do we mention it, or... Tamara has arrived in earshot. Absolutely everyone, including a very curious Casey, is staring at her nose.
tamara		Hello. Sorry to intrude. Her hand defensively brushes her nose. Poppy walks towards her, full of warmth.
poppy		Hey, Tamara.
tamara		Poppy, how are you?
poppy		Love your new hooter.
tamara		Thanks. It isn't actually new; just smaller...
beth		Tamara, so sorry about your mum.
tamara		Thank you...
beth		Are you staying down for a while?
tamara		I'll have to. There's so much to be done.
beth		You must let us know if we can help.
tamara		Actually, I was going to ask if you could spare a pair of strong arms. I've got a skip coming tomorrow and -
beth		Nicholas? - Nicholas is opening another bottle of prosecco. It pops its cork over his trousers. He mutters a swear word.
glen		I'm available. I do skips.
diggory		I... No.
tamara		Well thank you. You're very kind... Is Andy around at all? Beth is helping Nicholas wipe his trousers.
beth		Oh, I can't spare Andy. He's making a new coop for my Buff Orpingtons.
beth		She's had the writers down there helping her all day. I hope she realises they're here to work...
poppy		Can't believe what a difference her nose makes.
beth		Well I think it's a mistake; taken away all her character.
poppy		Come on; she looks ten times better.
nicholas		Huh.
beth		And she knows it. I found those shorts really irritating. Going around with half her bum hanging out. I mean, why?
nicholas		Of course you won't.
poppy		Why not?
nicholas		Because you're not desperate, are you? Always something a bit desperate about Tamara Drewe. Beth looks at him puzzled as he works on.
glen		So why did you change your face?
glen		Would it work for me?
tamara		Maybe; if you did the wrinkles too.
glen		Oh, you're just coming on to me... Tamara laughs. She starts work again.
glen		In your column, you write about yourself... Does that come easily?
tamara		No... But it feels right. My first novel's definitely going to be autobiographical.
glen		Your first novel? You're going to dash one off just like that?
tamara		Ideally, I'd like to make it into fiction before I'm thirty.
glen		And then maybe a swimwear collection, a chat show, a pasta sauce range?
tamara		What?
glen		Life sure is easy for the beautiful.
glen		She's single, man. Andy looks over at Zoe.
andy		Well it's not exactly a relationship; we just have an occasional thing. Zoe doesn't want to be tied down and -
glen		Not Zoe! Tamara... You should get in there. Marry the girl. Then you get to live back in your ancestral home.
andy		No way. Not her type.
glen		The trouble is Andy, you think like a loser. And I know that because I'm the loser that losers turn to for tips. I'm the losers loser.
andy		I'm a pedigree loser. I had a graphics business; went bust. And then with my great business acumen I invested in a polytunnel full of ganja.
glen		Wow. How'd that go?
andy		Made a tit of myself. Spent about six years stoned out of my box and I'm only just getting it back together. Besides, even if I was the last man in the world, Tamara Drewe wouldn't have me.
glen		Why not?
andy		I dumped her.
glen		Oh, you are a loser.
andy		I was twenty. My mates thought I was cradle snatching... And they used to call her Beaky.
tamara		Beaky?... We see her stricken face as she turns away. Then she turns back and hits Andy. His nose streams blood.
glen		You told her the truth... The time might come when she respects that. Andy, as your love guru, I suggest you ask Tamara for a date. But take a shower first, OK?
glen		A man can dream, huh? Nicholas looks at him affronted - as if he doesn't know what he's talking about.
andy		Go on Ingrid; have some kids.
tamara		Pretty direct isn't he? He's not even bought her a coke. Andy turns. Sees her.
andy		She doesn't mind; it's like Lynx to her. If she's ready she'll stand for him, if not she won't.
tamara		That's disturbing human.
andy		Refreshing basic. Darcy is up and at it.
tamara		I wish. Looks like I'm stuck here for a while. Actually, I've got a proposition for you. Andy glances at the goats; bad idea.
andy		We should go for a drink sometime, Tam. You know, for old times sake.
tamara		So we can reminisce about how I smashed your nose?
andy		You didn't smash it.
tamara		Yes I did.
andy		It just bled. The memory is between them.
tamara		I've got to do the house up before I sell it. It looks like an eighties timewarp. Would you like the job? He just looks at her.
tamara		Painting it and tidying the garden? Good hourly rate.
andy		It can't be easy down there, Tam.
tamara		What d'you mean?
andy		All the memories and stuff. Your mum...
tamara		I'm fine.
andy		Is it that you want someone around? Like when you look up I'd be there too? 
tamara		Jesus Christ, the goats are giving
andy		OK it's bollocks -
tamara		That's very sweet of you Andy -
andy		Of course you wouldn't want to fraternise with your gardener.
tamara		So... is that a yes? Andy doesn't reply.
beth		How's Thomas Hardy? Glen unburdens himself.
glen		I'm wasting my sabbatical.
beth		Oh dear.
glen		I've been working on this book forever; why can't I finish it? I'm two years past my delivery date and Fantail could ask for their chickenshit advance back. I can't write. I'm fucking constipated. It's a disaster.
beth		Crikey. He notices the In-Tray.
beth		I do a couple of sessions a week, to keep on top of it. Pretty good at forging Nick's signature. Glen looks awed - and defeated.
glen		Barging in on you; What an idiot.
beth		If you're going into Hadditon - we're really low on chicken feed.
andy		I'll get it tomorrow. I'm on my way down to Winnards. Doing one or two jobs for Tamara.
beth		She's got you helping her too?
andy		Just painting, decorating, sorting the garden. Beth is quite put out.
beth		Andy, that sounds like a lot. I need you here.
andy		I can easily do both.
beth		As long as you're not working for her in the hours that I pay you. Without thinking, she has made Andy feel like a servant.
andy		Sure, Beth. I won't rip you off.
andy		Tam? Got some colour charts for you to see. He sets out all the colours charts and plans he has been working on. Tamara appears. She is dressed to kill.
tamara		Make it.
jody		This is our village. Our fucking field.
jody		 COME ON YOU BASTARD LET US IN! Jody is ready for a fight but Casey pulls her back.  59 CUT. 59
ben		Sorry people. I resign. Swipe is no more. Steve Culley is a cunt. Ben storms off the stage. The audience are in uproar.
publicist		Ben! Ben! What's happening?
ben		He's seeing Fran. I won't work with that tosser again.
fran		Steve! Don't! Steve is coming into the wings. He punches Ben.
steve		You fucking baby. Ben falls. He virtually lands on Tamara. They both hit the ground. Steve storms off - Fran following, calling his name. Ben is dazed. He looks up at Tamara.
tamara		Hello. I'm Tamara Drewe.
ben		What?
tamara		I'm supposed to be interviewing you - for the Independent. She smiles sweetly, smoothing his hair.
jody		They should let us in free.
ryan		Too right. They come here, drink our water, use our fields, they leave all their crap in our drains - Tamara's car sweeps past with the roof down. It is closely followed by a bright yellow Porsche. Ben is driving and his boxer dog, Boss, is in the passenger seat. Jody clocks him.
jody		Ben! Ben! She jumps up and down in the road with both arms waving.
casey		What are you doing?
jody		That was Ben from Swipe! Ben!! 
ben		That's Boss.
tamara		Hi Boss.
ben		You're not allergic are you?
tamara		To indie drummers? Maybe. Who are your influences, Ben?
ben		Everyone asks that. This your place?
tamara		I'm selling. D'you want it?
ben		No, I want something else. Tamara grins. Jody and Casey arrive at the brow of the hill, breathless. They see Ben pin Tamara against the door.
jody		Who the fuck's she?
casey		I seen her up at Stonefield. She's got a nose made of plastic.
jody		How come she gets Ben? I've loved him since March. Just as Ben's about to kiss her, Tamara coolly opens the door and draws him into the house.
casey		Wow... Jody is gutted; feeling the full injustice of her life.
tamara		Would you like a beer?
ben		Yep. Maureen Tucker.
tamara		Who? Tamara opens the fridge. Ben is inches away. He still hasn't kissed her and he's just about to.
ben		Moe Tucker, with the Velvets. Five foot nothing. Used to stand up to play. Put the snare drum on its side and hit it with mallets. Mentalist.
tamara		You write all the songs; that's pretty rare for a drummer.
ben		Everything you've ever heard about drummers is total shit.
tamara		You mean you don't spontaneously combust?
ben		Only sometimes. She goes in to kiss him. But Ben grabs a pair of chopsticks from a utensils jar. He starts to play around Tamara, hitting the surfaces, the shelves and everything on them; a brilliant rhythm. He gets closer and closer. Tamara is utterly mesmerised. Ben stops. He still doesn't kiss her.
andy		Hey, hey - who are you, mate - lost, are you? Andy strokes Boss.
andy		Tam? You want breakfast? Boss bounds inside and disappears.
andy		Do you know about this dog, Tam - He notices two half-drunk beers. He wanders into the hall. He sees Ben's boots and most of Tamara's clothes, abandoned. The unmistakable moans of lovemaking are coming from Tamara's room. He turns on his heels, pained.
glen		It's his most obscure novel `The Well- Beloved'. Most people have never even heard of it. About this guy of twenty who falls in love with a beautiful young woman. Then when he's forty, he meets the woman's daughter and he falls in love with her. And finally, when he's sixty he meets the
beth		Oh he doesn't.
glen		Yeah. Falls in mystical love. Hardy was like that in his life, too. Even as he aged, he only had eyes for young women. Like, in one essential way he never grew up.
beth		In his trousers.
glen		He was still at it in his eighties. You know? Snow on the rooftop but fire in the cellar...
beth		Why won't it come for you Glen? The way you talk about it's so engaging.
glen		Yeah but there's an academic style, you know?
beth		Who are you writing for? Who's your ideal reader?
beth		Because if you wrote the way you spoke... it would make me want to read Hardy.
glen		Really?
beth		Yes. If you wrote like you were talking to a friend... Pass me that thing. Glen passes it, looking at Beth as she tightens a bolt.
beth		Try it now. Glen turns the key. The engine starts. Glen starts to drive the mower, delighted. Beth watches him, amused.
nicholas		I simply pander to popular taste.
caitlin		Oh your books are far more than that.
nicholas		Just airport fodder... Glen at the foot of the table, finds this modesty rich.
caitlin		Your prose is so vivid. And Inchcombe - for all his flaws - is a man with total integrity.
glen		Who did you base him on, Nicholas?
glen		Excuse me. He goes to help her, leaving the ladies around Nicholas like cups around a teapot.
glen		Let me help.
beth		They need dusting with this.
glen		I went to my room and I wrote for three hours. The time just vanished.
beth		That's great, that's brilliant.
glen		I feel like a man who's just passed a gargantuan stool.
beth		Super. Sprig of mint on the top. Glen returns to the dining room with two desserts. He listens to Nicholas as he serves them.
nicholas		The real secret of being a writer is learning how to lie. A frisson of shock goes round the lady writers.
glen		 `The basis of all excellence is truth.' Samuel Johnson. Glen's intellect wins the day. Nicholas smarts.
ben		Are you done yet?
tamara		I'm just starting something.
ben		That poxy column? Can't it wait?
tamara		Not the column. Just stuff coming out. Don't want to stop it.
ben		Do it later. Play with me. Ben strums his guitar, determined to get her attention.
casey		He must like kissing plastic.
jody		He doesn't love her. He's just on the rebound from losing Fran; numbing his pain with loads of empty, rampant sex. What he really needs...
casey		Is a fifteen year old from Ewedown.
jody		So? Stranger things happen. He's only ten years older and that's nothing. If he met me, if he just met me...
casey		It'd be love, right?
jody		Yeah.
beth		Coo-er... In your parents' bedroom? Still I suppose being an exhibitionist is part of his job - strutting about on stage.
andy		He doesn't strut; he's a drummer. He sits on his arse.
beth		Very good-looking, isn't he? Poppy You-Tubed him and we both got quite hot and bothered. Is that his car - the yellow Porsche?
andy		Yep.
beth		Bit brash, vrooming through the village... But fancy our Tamara bagging a bone fide rock star. She was such an ugly duckling. She must be thrilled to bits.
zoe		We're not open for another hour.
andy		Good.
zoe		I'm going to move on soon, Andy.
andy		No way...
zoe		Don't know if I can stick a winter here. The way the light disappears; it's doing me in. I'm a blue sky girl. Got to have some warmth. Andy just looks up at her, smiling his understanding.
andy		We all need a bit of that, don't we.
tamara		What's this?
ben		What's it look like?
tamara		Ben... For which finger?
ben		Whatever one you like. That's a nice one. Why not put it on that? He's pointing to her ring finger. Tamara is moved.
penny		Those girls could have aborted!
beth		Calm down, Penny. I'll sort him out. Nicholas is approaching.
penny		It beats me why you people want to live in the country. You've got no sense of responsibility.
beth		It's not our dog!
nicholas		Hello, Penny. How's tricks? Penny is suddenly all coy.
penny		Oh - Nicholas...
nicholas		You're looking great. Terrific coat.
penny		What, this old thing?
nicholas		You look like royalty.
penny		 Well, I try... Can't wait for your next book. Inchcombe's such a sauce- pot. Giles is always says `What are you reading Penny? You've got steam coming out of your ears...' She laughs like a drain. Nicholas joins in. Beth is striding away with the dog, infuriated.
tamara		So what's the ring saying, Ben?
ben		It's saying hello I'm a ring. Will you marry me? Tamara looks at him, searchingly.
tamara		I didn't know.
ben		Didn't know what?
tamara		That you were in love with me.
ben		The ring says I'm platinum with a long guarantee. So give me a reply. Tamara is grinning from ear to ear.
tamara		You're the best fun in the world. I'd love to marry you. She throws her arms around his neck.
ben		Say what?
tamara		I love you. Tamara holds him, profoundly affected. Something akin to fear flickers across Ben's eyes. The phone rings.
beth		Shhh! There are writers here, trying to write. Beth is in the hen enclosure, a hen in her arms.
nicholas		The famous Ben - Swipe, eh? Ben just about manages to shake it.
ben		Swipe's over. Thought the whole world knew that.
nicholas		It wasn't on Newsnight, no.
beth		Ben is engaged to Tamara. Isn't that lovely? He'd just popped the question when I rang.
nicholas		She said yes? Nicholas can't hide his disbelief. Ben is insulted.
beth		We're delighted for you both. Boss leaps up, straining against a chain.
ben		Why's he on a chain?
beth		He was out of control.
ben		How'd you like to be chained up?
beth		He was chasing livestock. He could've got shot.
ben		They shoot him; I'll fucking shoot them. He takes Boss. Beth and Nicholas are left alone.
nicholas		I think the word is gobshite.
beth		I hope he makes her happy. It's hard for girls when their dads walk out. Gives them bad taste in men.
nicholas		What's that supposed to mean?
beth		Just saying her father left when she was a girl and -
nicholas		That is ten pence psychology! You don't know what you're talking about, do you? He walks away. Beth is completely taken aback.
ben		`Mai Buff Orpingtons. Oh, the written word. That's what the country does to you; turns you into one. What's up?
tamara		It's a shame it doesn't fit. Perhaps you should have taken one of mine with you when you went to buy it.
ben		Yeah but I didn't know you then.
tamara		So... when did you buy it?
ben		So? It's yours now. She never wore it. She didn't want it.
tamara		You asked her to marry you...?
ben		It was a gesture, OK, when she started seeing Steve. Backfired, anyway. Look, I love you now. Tamara doesn't believe him. She is devastated.
tamara		Do you?
ben		Yeah. With my whole heart. And all the other stuff. Like my brain and my entrails and my whatever, pancreas. It all wants to marry you. He hugs her, starts kissing her but Tamara hardly responds.
beth		She wondered if you had a delivery date in mind. I told her Easterish. Mind that cocoa, it's hot. Across at Winnards, Tamara's bedroom light comes on. For a moment, she gazes out. Nicholas gazes back.
nicholas		Uh huh. Beth is on her way out. She turns and kisses him.
beth		Come in soon, my love. Nicholas stares out into the darkness. He isn't working. He isn't doing anything.
casey		Look at that cellulite...
jody		She been sitting on a bead car-seat or what? Casey turns a page.
casey		`Her latest tattoo count was nine, including a Sumatran tiger and `Eternity' written in Sanskrit.'
jody		She'll be getting a barcode done next. Right across there.
casey		Nice baby though. I'd like one that colour. 
casey		That Ryan...
jody		What a dick.
casey		I think he's cute.
jody		No you don't. Would you snog him?
casey		Maybe.
jody		Be like having a slug in your mouth. Ben's yellow Porsche speeds right through the puddle, further soaking Ryan. Ben and Tamara are both wearing designer shades despite the gloom; Boss in the back. Jody and Casey are both on their feet in a second.
ryan		Wankers. Ben gives them a grin and a wave. Jody's heart soars.
jody		Come on.
jody		She keeps this here for Andy.
casey		What if they come back?
jody		If you're too chicken, go home. The girls wander in, awed. Jody turns and grins, her eyes like a cat's.
nicholas		Is that Claire with an `i'? Beth has a tray of mince pies. Glen is at her side.
beth		What about you, Glen? Where will you be?
glen		In London with a collection of spare academics. I guess we'll be decking the halls in our own erudite way.
beth		I'll miss our chats.
glen		I've been in a state of writerly bliss these last weeks. I hope I get to come back.
beth		Me too. We'd love to have you. Glen doesn't want Beth to move away.
beth		Oh?
glen		If it was possible to have an orgasm from mere food, this mince pie would do it.
ben		What the fuck are we doing here?
tamara		It's kind of research; I want to write about them. They're funny, Ben - come on. They move through the crowd.
vintner		The 2001 was the best. Someone just bought my last three cases...
posh hippy		So I've got her this gorgeous Rajastani gagara skirt... Arriving at the mulled wine.
tamara		Besides, I want to show you off.
ben		What am I - arm candy?
tamara		More like arm fungus with that face on. Ben, meet Glen. Glen, meet Ben, my fiance.
glen		You're getting married?
tamara		Uh huh.
glen		OK. Beautiful dress, magazine photoshoot - everything the aspiring novelist needs.
tamara		I knew you'd be pleased.
glen		Have a mince pie.
ben		Can we get out of here?
tamara		Wait.
army geek		In Field of Tares, you made Fred a corporal. But there's no such thing in the Royal Artillery. They call them bombardiers.
nicholas		Oh, thank you for that...
tamara		Sorry. She flashes a smile at the Army Geek and puts her copy down in front of Nicholas.
tamara		Could you do it for Ben? He's my fiance. We're getting married in the summer.
nicholas		So I hear. You have my heartiest commiserations, Tara. He hands her the book dismissively. Tamara is smarting.
tamara		Well merry Christmas. Nicholarse. She turns away.
jody		We gotta live the dream, Casey. Live the dream... Jody and Casey jump up and down on the unmade bed. Jody pulls a black T-shirt from under a pillow. She holds it to her face.
casey		Omigod! A wild panic. They put things back where they found them.
jody		Go! Go! Go! She nicks the T-shirt.
ben		Why don't you sell it like you keep saying?
tamara		Because... I've started writing.
ben		You can write anywhere.
tamara		But this is proper. Not just stuff for the paper. 'It's about my teens - and is working for me here.
ben		Well it might be memory lane for you but it's doing my fucking head in. I want London. I want some Urban, OK? Are you with me or what? Cos I've had it with this place. Tamara is hurt - and deeply disappointed.
tamara		Of course I'm with you...
ben		It's drab. It's depressing. And every time I look out of the window I see Andy's arse - what's that about?
ben		We're leaving. Thank God. Andy looks at him.
ben		Tamara says you sell Christmas geese.
andy		Yep.
ben		Can I have one?
andy		Right now?
ben		Yeah. Andy smirks, pointing at a big white duck.
andy		That one's spare.
ben		Is that a goose?
andy		You can take it now if you like.
andy		What?
ben		It's fucking alive.
andy		Oh, you want it from Tesco, all plucked and headless sitting on a bandage. Ben's curiosity gets the better of him.
ben		How d'you do it then? Andy points towards an upturned traffic cone, held in place by a metal frame.
andy		Gently put it's head down there; then quick in the skull with an air rifle. Pluck it while it's warm, little pot to catch all the blood -
ben		Do you enjoy doing that?
andy		No, but in my low wage economy, this flock's worth a lot.
ben		You're a sick fuck, Andy. Andy has had enough.
andy		Grow up.
andy		I said grow up, little drummer boy. Ben thinks about it. He walks away. Glen appears with his suitcase on wheels containing most of his worldly goods.
andy		Tamara rang me this morning. Said to finish the house. It goes on the market in the spring and that's it; over.
glen		Why does the asshole always get the girl? He stands with Andy; comrades. Andy slaps him on the back.
andy		Come on. Or you'll miss that train.
jody		It won't be just a shag, Case. It'll be an event. I'll be wearing like a gossamer slip with a bra bit; Prada. Or like a filmy, linen shirt, and... We see Jody's thought bubble. Ben is leaning against the door frame, giving her a smouldering look.
casey		I like this.
jody		What?
casey		There's this bit right, where her dad takes her for dinner and she thinks it's some big treat but what he's doing, right, is telling her he's leaving them. And she, right, she's gutted and she yaks all her food into a napkin and puts it on his plate.
jody		So?
casey		It's painful. But funny. It's about her; Plastic Fantastic. She's sad, Jode.
jody		Sad? She's a lucky cunt.
andy		Am I dismantling it - or mending it?
tamara		I don't know; the shed... What do you think?
andy		I recommend preserving it.
tamara		Really?
andy		Always useful, a good shed.
tamara		Well then. Keep it... Andy puts the phone down, grinning. Tamara is grinning too, sharing the same memory.
jody		Just messing. I got one from Mum, one from that peanut Ryan, and a mystery one from Ben.
casey		I sent you that. Jody takes another swig from the bottle of wine.
jody		It's my mum's; they don't drink this shit. She hands it to Casey.
jody		Look what I'm doing. Come on.
casey		No you are not!
jody		From her address.
casey		He'll think it's from Tamara, you dipshit.
jody		But I know it'll be from me. Subject: Hot Love.
casey		 Oh God, Jody...
jody		Contacts: where are you Ben?
casey		Look, there's that bloke my mum works for; Nicholas Hardiment.
jody		Let's put him on. Who else?
casey		Uncle Andy.
jody		Andy Cobb.  `Come to Winnards Farm. I'll give you the biggest shagging of your life. Love Tamara xxx.' They fall about giggling. Jody swigs more wine.
casey		Don't ever, ever send that.
jody		I just did. Casey is appalled.
casey		You never! Jody nods.
jody		No I won't. 
casey		She'll know someone's read all her stuff!
jody		I'll delete it from sent items. It's just a laugh, Case. I only want Ben to come back.
ben		What the fuck is this?
beth		`Come to Winnards Farm.'
andy		`I'll give you the biggest shagging of your life...'
zoe		She must want a foursome. Or something.
tamara		How many times? I didn't send it! Are you listening to me? BEN! WILL
ben		Explain it then.
tamara		Is this about Fran?
ben		What's Fran got to do with it?
tamara		She's the reason you don't trust me. Just because she fucked around on you it doesn't mean that I will. Ben, furious, starts drumming again. Tamara boiling with frustration, walks away.
tamara		I wasn't pissed, or depraved or
andy		It's OK, it's OK... The drumming leads up to a massive crescendo and stops.
tamara		Can you go to the farm? Just take a look, see if anyone's been in.
andy		No problem.
tamara		Thank you. Ben's really pissed off. He's massively got the hump - Ben appears from the other end of the large room.
ben		Have I?
tamara		Got to go. Sorry. She puts the phone down. 
tamara		I've just asked him to go and check over the farm -
ben		Are you thick?
tamara		What?
ben		Isn't it obvious who sent it? That tosser Andy Cobb.
tamara		He wouldn't do that.
ben		Making himself all cosy in your house. Going through your stuff, prob'ly wearing your fucking pants -
tamara		No way!
ben		Bet it was him that nicked my black T-shirt.
tamara		There is no way Andy would do that! Ben pulls his jacket on.
ben		Well that says it all; the way you leap to his defence.
tamara		He hasn't done anything.
ben		You know what? I know Fran fucked my best friend but at least she was straight with me.
tamara		Ben - where are you going? Don't go!
ben		Fuck's sake.
poppy		Oh come on mum. She's just stirring shit. Tamara's always done that.
beth		Why's your father on there - and poor Andy? It's so tasteless.
poppy		 You know how subversive she is. She once sent me a valentine from Prince Harry - and I believed it. It's her sense of humour; she likes causing trouble. At school she used to give us first years tips on how to shoplift.
beth		She taught you to shoplift?
poppy		Mum, she's marrying Ben Sergeant. Why would she look at an old git like dad? Nicholas is in the shadowy hall, listening with interest. Poppy helps Beth upstairs with the laundry. Nicholas steps into the kitchen. Poppy has left the email on the table. Nicholas picks it up, deeply curious.
nicholas		What did you make of that email from Tamara?
casey		How come she's with a different bloke every week and when Lesley Hunt's sister shagged Jeff Dobson - just once, after he lied he loved her - she gets called a dirty slag.
jody		 That's cos she does it in five star resorts around the world - and not The Feathers carpark. Over the page, Ben canoodling in a freezing park with Fran.
jody		It's Ben!
casey		`Who's the daddy? Steve Culley and Fran Redmond recently announced they were expecting. But in a Valentine tryst shocker Fran is snapped with ex Ben Sergeant! Ben and Fran - we say Get A Room.'
jody		He's back with Fran? After...
casey		After that email, Jode.
jody		No way. No way! Tamara's car zooms past. Her expression is black.
jody		I'll never see Ben again... And it's all MY FAULT. Jody's mum comes into the room.
mum		What's all your fault?
jody		 None of your business.
mum		I'm bloody sick of you looking like a wet weekend. Who's Ben?
jody		No one.
mum		What've you done?
jody		Nothing.
mum		Are you in trouble?
jody		NO!... Leave me alone.
mum		You take care with boys, Jody. You know what can happen.
jody		What can happen? What can ever, ever happen in a place like this? She throws herself on her duvet, inconsolable.
lucetta		Are they crows or jackdaws? It's so nice to get these little details right.
beth		They're rooks.
lucetta		I've got an unhappy wife and a newly qualified vet discovering a forbidden world of physical love in a bird hide.
tamara		I'm looking for Andy.
nicholas		He's not up at Stonefield. Tamara is about to turn back.
nicholas		So what about this shag I've been reading about?
tamara		Oh fuck off.
nicholas		I liked your email. Very succint.
tamara		Well I didn't send it. And I wouldn't shag you if you were the last man left after a nuclear winter.
nicholas		I'll come round tomorrow then. About three? 
tamara		Drop dead you smug prick. Nicholas watches her storm back up the copse.
zoe		Still time to change your mind. Blue skies. Fun in the sun.
andy		Just not a traveller, Zoe.
nicholas		I'll probably stay on at the library for another hour or two. Yes... just checking some law reports.
nicholas		Hello.
tamara		So. Nicholas. She lets the door fall open. She backs into the hall. Nicholas walks in. He closes the door. They look at each other. Neither of them moves.
nicholas		You can tell me to leave. Tamara says nothing.
nicholas		You can throw me right out. Nicholas slowly takes his red scarf and coat off. He hangs them on a coat hook, bringing himself closer to her.
nicholas		Just say and I'll go. She still can't speak. Nicholas takes her in his arms. He is big and fatherly and comforting. Tamara feels a sense of relief, of not being alone. Her arms go around him. When he kisses her, he's surprisingly real, vulnerable even, as if he's left his lordly persona at the door. Tamara closes her eyes. Their kisses become more urgent.
nicholas		Are you crying?
tamara		No. Nicholas is taken aback. He instinctively holds her.
nicholas		Don't cry. Am I really that bad? Tamara shakes her head, glad of him.
tamara		I'm just not myself.
nicholas		Yes you are. She looks up at him.
tamara		I used to watch you out of my window helping your daughter learn to skateboard up the lane. Bit of an obvious crush, wasn't it.
nicholas		Is that why you're crying?
tamara		No.
nicholas		Am I here as revenge on your ex?
tamara		I don't know why you're here. Why are you here, Nicholas?
nicholas		Because... since you climbed over that stile in the summer I haven't thought about very much else. She doesn't believe him.
tamara		You can use me in one of your books.
nicholas		When can we do this again?
tamara		What about Beth?
nicholas		Look, Beth and I have this kind of
tamara		Bullshit.
nicholas		Thursday? 
tamara		Isn't life complicated enough? Nicholas shakes his head. He kisses her.
beth		Oh poor you - was it awful?
nicholas		Bloody terrible. Didn't move till well past Chiswick. But look, I nipped into Fortnums... He hands her a package.
beth		All my favourite teas - Oh! He embraces her. He is affectionate, magnanimous in his bliss. Beth is taken aback by his warmth.
beth		My goodness. You feel like my buzzy toothbrush just after I've charged it up. You should go up to London more often.
nicholas		Maybe I will... Nicholas goes to the table. The writers greet him as he sits.
nicholas		Sorry everybody; traffic was a pig. Do carry on...
lucetta		I'm trying this magic realist bit at the end of chapter three, where the characters slowly turn into
nicholas		That sounds very innovative...
lucetta		Do you think so? It's sort of the key to the structure, which I'm thinking of as a nest shape...
glen		So after two years of radio silence I contact my editor. And she loves - I mean loves the chapters I did in the fall.
beth		Oh Glen.
glen		A few solid weeks should - holy cow! An egg hits the windscreen . Casey and Jody hide. Beth gets out of the car to clean the window.
glen		Idiots! Morons! Hey, writers! Let's egg the self-regarding sacks of shit.
glen		There's this theory he gave his wife syphilis, right? No evidence but the symptoms fit. The poor woman gets kind of eccentric and moves her bed up to their attic -
beth		The bastard -
glen		Meanwhile, Hardy falls in love with a woman who is thirty nine years younger than him.
beth		I don't believe it. Nicholas is passing through, reading The Independent.
nicholas		Geoff.
glen		Glen.
nicholas		Henry James.
glen		Thomas Hardy.
nicholas		That's right, a Hardy book. Coming well?
glen		Yes, actually. Nicholas returns to the paper.
beth		He gave his wife syphilis.
nicholas		Jolly good. He goes. Beth is ashamed of his condescension.
beth		He's completely distracted. He's up and down to London all the time. The latest Inchcombe's taking everything he's got.
tamara		Thank you.
nicholas		So... have I done my duty?
tamara		Admirably.
nicholas		Now do I get my treat? Tamara, almost in his arms, is crestfallen.
tamara		You are so cheesy. Tamara is staring at him with something akin to distaste.
jody		Zero Ben sightings in two whole months.
casey		Last time I saw Plastic she looked like a minger; all red-eyed and gutted. Ben's a Love Rat.
jody		She's probably topped herself. I would if Ben dumped me.
casey		Jode. Don't say that. What if she's done something?
jody		Like got in the bath with her heated tongs?
casey		Like taken a stack of pills? We see Jody's thought bubble of Tamara luridly dead, her mouth coated with dried froth and vomit.
jody		D'you think she might be lying there all choked in vomit and drug froth?
casey		That'd be dire.
jody		If we find her we'll get in the papers.
casey		Oh my God.
jody		Rock Chick Dead at Winnards Farm.
tamara		Andy... Behind the railings, the girls can't help their look of disappointment at seeing her alive.
tamara		I've had my head down, writing.
andy		Come for a drink. Let's lighten up.
tamara		I can't... I'm kind of on one with my writing. Over her shoulder, Andy sees Nicholas' red scarf and coat hanging on the coat hook. He hides his shock. Tamara is unaware that he has seen.
jody		Let's go. I'm freezing my tits off.
casey		Wait!! Casey is looking back at Tamara's door. Tamara is peering out. Nicholas joins her, putting his coat on. He kisses her passionately. He wants to stay. She's insisting he leaves.
jody		Oh. My. God.
casey		It's him. From Stonefield.
jody		The dirty cheating sod.
beth		You fucking little slut. She puts her head in her hands.
casey		`Prolific author of intelligent crime novels.'
jody		Fucking `D' list. How could she do that after Ben?
casey		Maybe she's numbing the pain.
jody		He's not even a proper celeb.
casey		Maybe older guys know more... you know, bed stuff.
jody		Eww! He's a perv. I hate him.
casey		Jode, I know who I feel sorry for.
beth		Hello Casey. How are you? Jody nudges her. Casey nods. Beth posts her mail.
jody		Bus got scrapped.
beth		So it did. Well. Hope it doesn't rain. She turns for home.
casey		Gutted for her.
jody		Me too. Fat arse though, hasn't she?
casey		See? That's D-List's car.
jody		Big old turd.  CASEY He's a rotten cheater.  JODY Like my dad. Come on Case. Let's fuck him up.
nicholas		Shit salad. He gets out his phone. Jody and Casey are in the trees watching, satisfied.
beth		Oh poor you. What a drag.
nicholas		Yes, it's a frightful bore.
nicholas		You're a marvel. See you soon.
glen		Beth, could I use your printer?
beth		Nicholas is on the motorway with a flat tyre. But I couldn't hear traffic. Just rooks...
beth		Did you ask me to read something?
tamara		Nicholas, someone knows. Maybe we
nicholas		Who cares? He kisses her, passionately. She is troubled but eventually responds. Jody nudges Casey.
jody		Casey, pap them. Pap them! Casey holds out her mobile and takes a picture. Then Tamara extricates herself from his embrace. Jody peers at Casey's photo. A close-up clinch.
casey		This is wrong, Jode.
jody		She's asking for it; slut. I'm going to email D-List's wife.
casey		We should send the photo and be done with it.
jody		Casey.
casey		What?
jody		While I was sitting here. Look. An e-mail from Ben come in. Just like that, when I'm here.
jody		`Could drop him off next week. And when I'm back, maybe we could dot dot dot. Ben.'
casey		He's coming back.
jody		Tamara doesn't deserve him, Case.  `Dear Ben, I can't see you as I am shagging an old married man -
casey		What're you doing??
jody		`But I have found a reliable dog- lover in the village...
casey		No way, Jody! You're not sending it.
jody		`Call Jody on 07700 900929.' Casey tries to stop her pressing send. Jody digs her nails into Casey's hand. Casey yowls. Jody presses send.
casey		You stupid cow!
jody		I'm making something happen!
casey		You gone too far!
jody		I'm getting him down here.
casey		/ You don't know when to stop! You're an idiot. I'm not having nothing to do with it. Jody shouts over her from /.
jody		Otherwise my whole life'll go by and I'll be washed up and thirty four like my mum and no one decent will ever even have snogged me! Casey is leaving.
casey		You twat.
jody		Fuck off then.
beth		There's the festival brochure. You're on in the Lanson Marquee. I've marked a few bits in case you want to read. Beth hands him a hardback.
nicholas		You're a marvel. Cheers. He kisses her and prepares to leave. She is suspicious.
beth		I could come with you.
nicholas		Oh, don't. You hate festivals.
beth		But it's only Hadditon. I'll come.
nicholas		It's completely boring. You'll hate it. Stay here. Her suspicion will stay silent no longer.
beth		Have you got anything to tell me, Nicholas?
nicholas		Like what? Nicholas attacks; the best form of defence.
nicholas		God, it's like living with the effing moral police. Are you ever going to trust me? He goes.
casey		 Right. Wanker.
beth		I'm doing this cake in celebration. Well done. Glen holds up his mug of coffee.
glen		To Hardy.
glen		Well, things were different then. She had no choice. Beth's mobile bleeps. She picks it up.
glen		She couldn't just walk away. I mean who'd put up with that now? Beth drops the mixing bowl. She cannot speak.
beth		 How do I find out who sent this? Andy takes the phone, sees the photo.
andy		It says number withheld. He returns the phone.
andy		Couldn't tell you. I'm sorry Beth. He leaves.
beth		Her... Glen looks at the photo; Nicholas and Tamara's clinch.
glen		Oh My God. This is just - this is horrible.
beth		Right under my nose. I feel sick.
glen		It's so shitty, so insulting. You do not deserve to be treated -
beth		If you're kind to me, I'll cry. I don't want to cry. I must be very clear.
glen		If there is anything I can do...
glen		Hey, come on.
beth		I trod in the sponge mix.
glen		It's OK. It's OK.
tamara		Hey. How are you? Andy says nothing.
tamara		Would you like to have that drink? I could do with a friend / at the moment and -
andy		I get it from his point of view. He's always been a cheating wanker. He loves having his cake and eating it - But since when did your standards drop so low? You could have anyone. All you have to do is bat your eyes.
andy		I care a lot about Beth. She helped me out when I was at rock bottom.
tamara		I'm not going to split them up. It's
ben		That Jody? This is Ben Sergeant.
jody		That's right, yes... I love dogs.
ben		So I'll meet you at Winnards Farm, four thirty. Ben zooms off.
jody		It's a nice dog, Mum!
mum		Well I don't like `em. Dog-hair and slobber all over the place.
jody		But I said yes.
mum		No dogs, no way and that's final. Jody is devastated.
jody		You loser. I hate you. You want to
jody		Live the dream, Jody...
nicholas		Cock pie. Has he told Beth?
tamara		I don't know. But he might. And I wouldn't blame him.
nicholas		Well, I suppose it has to come out sometime.
tamara		Does it?
nicholas		It's a good thing. Feels like a relief. Means you and I can start to think about our plans. For the future...
tamara		Nicholas?...
nicholas		I know it's been hard, sharing me with Beth. But I'm yours now. I'm going to leave her. I want a new life - and I want it now. With you. Tamara is appalled. A minder interrupts.
minder		Mr Hardiment? It's time.
nicholas		It all runs very smoothly. I start a book in the summer, publish it the following spring. Bit of a factory, really.
interviewer		So you've just finished `Like The Night', Inchcombe's seventeenth adventure. Are you already planning the next?
nicholas		There won't be a next one. Frankly I'm sick to death of Inchcombe. In fact, I'm about to kill him off. There's a gust of dismay in the crowd, as though a real death has been announced.
interviewer		That's a bombshell for your fans.
nicholas		 Yes, but I'm moving on to fresh pastures.
nicholas		Inchcombe will be meeting a very sticky end. And it's one murder I'm really looking forward to.
interviewer		This might be a good moment to take a few questions. Yes, the lady in the apron...
beth		You write a lot about adultery. Is that from personal experience? Tamara turns round. Nicholas' colour drains. Beth is with Glen, close by - glaring at him. He tries to make a joke.
nicholas		Madam, what a saucy question!
beth		Why do you cheat persistently on your wife? Nicholas considers whether he wants to be publicly humiliated. He decides not.
nicholas		Because she lets me. Beth takes this like a blow. Even Tamara is shocked by it.
tamara		It's got to stop, Nicholas.
nicholas		You're right. I can't go on using her, lying to her. Won't be fun but I've got to do it.
nicholas		I don't feel alive with Beth! I haven't been living for years. She's had me smothered in a comfy blanket -
tamara		Nicholas, listen to me. She makes him look at her.
nicholas		But... I'm in love with you.
tamara		I'm sorry. Nicholas looks as if he's just been punched.
nicholas		No. You can't end it. Tamara - Fuck supper!
tamara		Will you keep it down?
nicholas		My God, you're cold hearted.
tamara		I do feel. I feel like I'm blazing away inside all the time. Why do I do these things? What am I doing with you? The question hangs between them.
nicholas		There's someone else isn't there...
tamara		Oh for God's sake.
nicholas		Not that narcissist drummer?
tamara		Goodbye.
nicholas		It's that ignorant lunk isn't it? That muscle-bound wastrel Andy Cobb.
tamara		Andy Cobb is a far better man than you! In saying it, Tamara realises it's true. She walks away. Nicholas bends almost double in pain, letting out a great moan from the soul. A fan has been waiting at a respectful distance. He approaches. Nicholas numbly takes his book. Instead of signing, he tears it to pieces. He hands the tatters back to the fan.
ben		Hello Jody... Jody spins round. The door closes. Ben is standing behind it. He is wearing a tight black T-shirt; the man of her dreams.
ben		Dog minder? I guessed you might be the somebody who's been getting in here, pissing about, sending e-mails and fucking people up. D'you know what I'm saying? You've been breaking in.
jody		I didn't break in. Used the key.
ben		What key?
jody		Found it under a pot.
ben		Well for fuck's sake. Did you nick my T-shirt?
jody		Took it as a souvenir. I'm sorry! Jody is very scared. She is crying.
ben		Creeping about in our stuff? What gives you the right?
jody		I just... like I always wanted to meet you...just once...just to tell you stuff...
ben		What stuff?
jody		Like... I love you.
ben		So that's nice. Least someone does.
jody		I used to lie awake thinking about you being here... in Ewedown, the bumhole of nowhere. It was the best thing to happen ever. I've been so in love with you. And when you left I couldn't bear it. I thought the valentine would make you come back...  BEN  Jody! What are you doing not fucking answering?
casey		Ben's dog. It's here. Means Ben must be - Casey suddenly realises where Jody is. The dog runs off up the street. Casey sets off towards Winnards, full of apprehension.
beth		I bet that bitch wants a baby. Well she'll find out; Nicholas doesn't do children.
beth		But suppose he discovers fatherhood?
glen		Yes you have. Look at this place!
beth		I hate him - I've wasted my life!
glen		No... What about all the work you do here?
beth		Breeding goats? Baking fucking biscuits? It's meaningless! Beth bawls. Glen holds her.
glen		You. He kisses her. Beth looks at Glen; a revelation. The future opens up. She kisses him back.
nicholas		Excuse me. Nicholas is standing in the doorway, looking grey.
beth		No. You may not. She walks away.
nicholas		It's over.
beth		That's Ben Sergeant's dog. Perhaps he's come to beat the shit out of you - good!
nicholas		Beth - I finished it. She's been chasing me; this wild crush -
beth		Good God, even when you try and tell the truth you lie. YOU LIE!! Nicholas is falling apart.
beth		I want you to leave. I want a divorce. I want Stonefield.
nicholas		Beth...Don't. You can't.
beth		I will.
ben		Right. Now put two sugars in and stir it. OK. That's a decent cup. Which is lucky Jody cos if it had been shit, I'd be on the phone to the extremely scary local cops right now.
jody		Please don't tell my mum.
ben		I knew it was boring round here but for fuck's sake...
jody		I'm gonna get out as soon as I can. Going to work in Vegas - as a croupier. Vegas, or a cruise liner.
ben		Aim high, that's what I say.
tamara		Ben?
ben		Tamara. You've had an infestation.
ben		Jody. Jody, shamefaced, prepares to cough up.
nicholas		Oy! Greg! I want a a word with you.
glen		It's Glen, asshole. Nicholas is stomping through the mud and cowshit.
nicholas		You fucking devious bastard.
nicholas		You think I haven't noticed how you've been worming your way in? You keep your hands off my wife, you low-rent pedant.
glen		You've abused her long enough / with your goddamn lies -
nicholas		And I fucking pay for it. I've given Beth all this. What can you give her?
glen		You know if I made my pile fantasizing rapes and homicides I wouldn't be so proud.
glen		Fuck you. Glen grabs him round the middle. They struggle like overgrown schoolboys.
glen		Now... get up, Nicholas. Let's talk about this like grown men. Blood trickles from the wound on Nicholas' head. He moans.
tamara		It was you? Jody can't look her in the eye.
ben		Jody has explained that she did it out of deep love for me. To Ben's astonishment, Tamara smiles. He grabs his moment.
casey		Jody - the dog!
penny		Got `im. The beast.
beth		Bitch. Tamara looks up.
tamara		Beth - no -
beth		Brazen. That is brazen. Beth carries on walking towards her.
tamara		Beth. Don't. Tamara is running towards Beth. She cannot bear her to see. She throws her arms around her, protecting her.
beth		Nicholas. No. Her cries of grief soar over the valley.
tamara		Beth? Help is coming - Beth cannot bear to be touched. Her hand involuntarily flies out. It slams into Tamara's face. Tamara steps back. Her nose is broken, pouring blood.
andy		Tamara... Andy is watching. She turns away from him. He approaches.
andy		Tam, come on. It was an accident. Still Tamara cries. He comforts her. She lets him. He holds her for some time.
andy		I'd better get up to Stonefield. Come with me. We'll get this sorted.
andy		Then get Ben to take you to London. Make sure he looks after you. Tamara walks a few paces away. She stares straight ahead.
tamara		I don't want to be with Ben. She looks back at Andy. He begins to understand. She walks off.
jody		Pap me! Pap me! Casey waits until Ben is not looking. Then she takes pictures with her mobile phone. Jody cradles Ben in her arms, doing her best moved-but-sultry pose. Casey tries not to laugh. Jody is ecstatic. The man of her dreams is in her arms. Her wish has come true.
andy		What are you doing? Glen can't look him in the eye.
glen		I figured I'd best, you know, take myself off. She doesn't want writers around the place now. And police, autopsies, not my thing - 
andy		You can't run away.
glen		I'm not running away! I just finished my book; my time here is up. Destiny calls.
andy		Beth is asking for you.
glen		She's... Really?
andy		She's on her own over there. Glen, she doesn't need a writer around the place. She needs a man.
glen		I'm so sorry. Beth looks up at him despairingly.
glen		Do they... suspect anyone? I mean of like Foul Play?
beth		It was my fault. I let the dog go!
glen		No, no...
beth		I shooed him away! The police said it was an accident but...
glen		Beth. I have to tell you... 
beth		Glen. Stay with me. Her eyes, still red with grief, are full of their future together. Glen nods. He will stay. He wants it all. Beth leans into him, seeking comfort. He puts his arms around her, his face ashen with the weight of his secret. As he holds her, he looks around the room. Nicholas is everywhere, glaring down at him from photographs.
tamara		Don't say anything.
andy		Kind of suits you. And I always did like the old one. They are in each others arms. The embrace lasts and lasts. Tamara is leading Andy up to the house.
tamara		You did it on purpose, didn't you?
andy		What?
tamara		Made it so beautiful I'd never be able to leave.
andy		Been dying to get rid of you. This is my house. I was born in that room.
tamara		So you were. They are at the threshold. They kiss.  TAMARA  Welcome home.
****Dialogues from script :Taxi_Driver.txt****

taxi driver		 by  Paul Schrader
personnel officer		So why do you want to be a taxi driver?
travis		I can't sleep nights.
personnel officer		There's porno theatres for that.
travis		I know. I tried that.
personnel officer		So whatja do now?
travis		I ride around nights mostly. Subways, buses. See things. Figur'd I might as well get paid for it.
personnel officer		We don't need any misfits around here, son.
travis		You kiddin? Who else would hack through South Bronx or Harlem at night?
personnel officer		You want to work uptown nights?
travis		I'll work anywhere, anytime. I know I can't be choosy.
personnel officer		 How's your driving record?
travis		Clean. Real clean.  As clean as my conscience.
personnel officer		Listen, son, you gonna get smart, you can leave right now.
travis		 Sorry, sir. I didn't mean that.
personnel officer		Physical? Criminal?
travis		Also clean.
personnel officer		Age?
personnel officer		Twenty-six.
personnel officer		Education?
travis		Some. Here and there.
personnel officer		Military record?
personnel officer		You moonlightin?
travis		No, I want long shifts.
personnel officer		 We hire a lot of moonlighters here.
travis		So I hear.
personnel officer		 Fill out these forms and give them to the girl at the desk, and leave your phone number. You gotta phone?
travis		No.
personnel officer		Well then check back tomorrow.
travis		Yes, Sir.
travis		Why should it be grounded?
travis		Then it's a good guess it's grounded.
travis		Have you tried the telephone?
travis		No.
slow down		AND GAUGE SPEED TO ROAD CONDITIONS YOU CAN'T STOP ON A DIME!
concession girl		Kin I help ya?
travis		What is your name? My name is Travis.
concession girl		Awh, come off it, Pal.
travis		No, I'm serious, really...
concession girl		Ya want me to call da boss? Huh? That what you want?
concession girl		No, no, it's alright. I'll have a big Coca-Cola - without ice - and a large buttered popcorn, and...  ... some of them chocolate covered malted milk balls... and ju-jukes, a box. They last.
concession girl		We don't have ju-jukes. We don't have Coca-Cola. We only got Royal Crown Cola.
travis		That's fine.
concession girl		That's a dollar forty-seven.
betsy		Tom.
betsy		Tom, come here a moment.  And don't forget to add the new photo releases.
tom		The senator's white paper is almost ready, Bets. Should we wait for that?
betsy		Andy usually just sends those to the national media. The local press doesn't know what to do with a position paper until UPI and AP tell them anyway.
tom		I think we should try to get maximum coverage for this new mandatory welfare program. Push the issues.
betsy		 First push the man, then the issue. Senator Palantine is first of all a dynamic man, an intelligent, interesting, fascinating man.
tom		You forgot "sexy".
betsy		No, I didn't forget "sexy".
tom		Just didn't get around to it, huh?
betsy		Oh, Tom, please.
tom		Well, for Christsakes, you sound like you're selling... I don't know what... cars... not issues.
betsy		Have you ever wondered why CBS News has the highest ratings?
tom		More people watch it.
betsy		Alright, forget it if you're not going to be serious,
tom		No, c'mon, I'm listening. I was just...
betsy		Just what?
tom		Kidding around... you know, fun.
betsy		Maybe if you'd try thinking once in a while, you'd get somewhere.
tom		With who?
betsy		Alright, now. You want to know why CBS has the highest ratings? You their news is any different from NBC, ABC? It's all the same news. Same stories. Same order usually. What, you thought they had good news for people, right? You thought that's why people watched CBS? I'll tell you why people watch CBS. Cronkite. The man. You got it? Not the news, not the issues, the man. If Walter Cronkite told people to eat soap, they'd do it. We are selling cars, goddamn it.
tom		Well, if Cronkite's so great, why don't we run him instead?
betsy		That's the last. The finish. Period. Some pople can learn. Some people can't. And you wonder why we never get serious----
tom		Sure we could run him. You realize he's already of his block association.
betsy		 Have you been noticing anything strange?
tom		No, why?
betsy		Why's that taxi driver across the street been staring at us?
tom		What taxi driver?
betsy		That taxi driver. The one that's been sitting here.
tom		How long has he been there?
betsy		I don't know - but it feels like a long time.
tom		 Well, I'll go out and ask him.
wizard		First she did her make-up. You know, I hate it when they do that. I mean she does the whole works, the mascara, the eye-shadow, the lipstick, the rouge...
wizard		The kind with a brush.
wizard		Travis.
travis		Hey Wizard.
wizard		 Ask Travis. He's the ladies man.
wizard		 Well, whatever the fuck it is, she used it. And then the spray perfume. You know, the real sweat kind - and, on top of that, get this, right when we're crossing the Tri- boro bridge - she changes her pantyhose!
wizard		Yeah.
wizard		Well, she was trying to keep her skirt down, sort of, you know. But it was pretty obvious what she was doing. I mean, Christ, it was rush hour and the traffic's practically standing still.
wizard		Threw on the emergency, jumped the seat and fucked her brains out - What do you think!  What do I have to do? Draw you a picture?
wizard		What was I supposed to do? I was watching in the rear view. You know, just checkin' traffic.  So howsit?
travis		 Some fleet driver for Bell just cut up. Just heard it on the radio.
wizard		Sure. What do you think? She wanted to get out of the cab. I said "Look, you're in the middle of the fucking bridge..."
wizard		Well, I said, "Lady, please, we're on a bridge..."
wizard		She stayed in the cab, what's she gonna do? but she stiffed me. A real skunk.
wizard		 Travis, you know Dough-Boy, Charlie T.?
wizard		We call him Dough-Boy cause he likes the dollars. He'll chase a buck straight into Jersey.
wizard		 So howsit?
travis		 Some fleet driver for Bell just got cut up.  Just heard it on the radio.
travis		No, just some crazy fucker. Cut have his ear off.
travis		In the jungle. 122nd.
wizard		 Fuckin' Mau Mau land, that's what it is.
travis		Huh?
travis		 I have.
travis		Nah.  I suppose not.
wizard		The cops and company raise hell they find out.
wizard		For a fee.
wizard		I never use mine. But it's a good thing to have. Just as a threat.
wizard		What ya gonna do with all that money, Dough-Boy?
betsy		Try holding the match like this.
tom		This is gotta be a game, right?
betsy		 This I gotta see.
tom		 Ouch!
betsy		 Oh, are you all right?
tom		I'm great. Always set my fingers on fire. If you want to see another trick. I do this thing with my nose.
betsy		No. I just wanted to see if you could light it that way. The guy at the newsstand can.
tom		Ah, yes, the guy at the newsstand, Mr. Asbestos...
betsy		He happens to be missing fingers. I first noticed when -
tom		Is he Italian?
betsy		No, why?
tom		You sure he's not Italian?
betsy		He's Black, OK?
tom		Well, If he had been Italian, they could have been shot off. Sometimes the mob does that to teach guys a lesson, If they blow a job or something.
betsy		As I said, he isn't Italian. Besides, I thought they just killed them.
tom		Don't be naive. They can't kill everybody. They have different punishments for different things. Like, if they kill a stool pidgeon, they leave a canary on the body. It's symbolic.
betsy		Why don't they leave a pidgeon instead of a canary?
tom		I don't know. Maybe they don't leave a canary. Don't be technical. What I'm saying is if this newsstand guy's Italian and his fingers are gone, maybe he's a thief.
betsy		First, he's not Italian. Second he's not a thief. I noticed the fingers when he was getting my change - the right change. Two of his fingers are missing. Just stubs. Like they were blown away. I was putting my change in my purse when I saw him get out a cigarette. I couldn't help watching. I was dying to see how he'd light it.
tom		With the other hand, right?
betsy		No, stupid. With the stubs. That's the whole point.
tom		I know that guy. His hand looks like a paw. An old Black guy, the newsstand at -
betsy		No, this is young - well, I'm never sure how old Black people are - but, anyway, he isn't old. That's for sure.
tom		Show me how he did that again.
travis		 I want to volunteer.
tom		 If you'll come this way.
travis		 No. I want to volunteer to you.
tom		 Bets.
betsy		 And why is that?
travis		Because you are the most beautiful woman I have ever seen.
betsy		 But what do you think of Charles Palantine?
travis		 Who mam?
betsy		Charles Palantine. The man you want to volunteer to help elect president.
travis		Oh, I think he's a wonderful man. Make a great, great President.
betsy		You want to canvass?
travis		Yes, mam.
betsy		How do you feel about Senator Palantine's stand on welfare?
travis		Welfare, mam? I think the Senator's right. People should work for a living. I do. I like to work. Every day. Get those old coots off welfare and make 'em work for a change.
betsy		Well, that's not exactly what the Senator has proposed. You might not want to canvass, but there is plenty more other work we need done: Office work, filing, poster hanging.
travis		I'm a good worker, Betsy mam, a real good worker.
betsy		 if you talk to Tom, he'll assign you to something.
travis		If you don't mind, mam, I'd rather work for you.
betsy		Well, we're all working tonight.
travis		Well, Betsy mam, I drive a taxi at night.
betsy		Well, then, what is it you exactly want to do?
travis		 If you don't mind, mam, I'd be mighty pleased if you'd go out and have some coffee and pie with me.
betsy		Why?
travis		Well, Betsy mam, I drive by this place here in my taxi many times a day. And I watch you sitting here at this big long desk with these telephones, and I say to myself, that's a lonely girl. She needs a friend. And I'm gonna be her friend. 
betsy		I don't know...
travis		It's just to the corner, mam. In broad daytime. Nothing can happen. I'll be there to protect you.
betsy		 All right. I'm taking a break at four o'clock. If you're here then we'll go to the corner and have some coffee and pie.
travis		Oh, I appreciate that, Betsy mam. I'll be here at four o'clock exactly.  And... ah... Betsy...
betsy		Yes?
travis		My name is Travis.
betsy		Thank you, Travis.
betsy		I'm just going to find out what the cabbies are thinking.
betsy		We've signed up 15.000 Palantine volunteers in New York so far. The organizational problems are becoming just staggering.
travis		I know what you mean. I've got the same problems. I just can't get things organized. Little things, I mean. Like my room, my possessions. I should get one of those signs that says, "One of these days I'm Gonna Organezizied".
betsy		 Travis, I never ever met anybody like you before.
travis		I can believe that.
betsy		Where do you live?
travis		 Oh, uptown. You know. Some joint. It ain't much.
betsy		So why did you decide to drive a taxi at night?
travis		I had a regular job for a while, days. You know, doin' this, doin' that. But I didn't have anything to do at night. I got kinda lonely, you know, just wandering around. So I decided to works nights. It ain't good to be alone, you know.
betsy		After this job, I'm looking forward to being alone for a while.
travis		Yeah, well...  In a cab you get to meet people. You meet lotsa people. It's good for you.
betsy		What kind of people?
travis		Just people people, you know. Just people.  Had a dead man once.
betsy		Really?
travis		He'd been shot. I didn't know that. He just crawled into the back seat, said "West 45th Street" and conked out.
betsy		What did you do?
travis		I shot the meter off, for one thing. I knew I wasn't goimg to get paid. Then I dropped him off at the cop shop. They took him.
betsy		That's really something.
travis		Oh, you see lots of freaky stuff in a cab. Especially when the moon's out.
betsy		The moon?
travis		The full moon. One night I had three or four weirdoes in a row and I looked up and, sure enough, there it was - the full moon.
travis		Oh, yeah. People will do anything in front of a taxi driver. I mean anything. People too cheap to rent a hotel room, people scoring dope, people shooting up, people who want to embarrass you.  It's like you're not even there, not even a person. Nobody knows you.
betsy		Com'on, Travis. It's not that bad. I take lots of taxis.
travis		I know. I could have picked you up.
betsy		Huh?
travis		Late one night. About three. At the plaza.
betsy		Three in the morning? I don't think so. I have to go to bed early. I work days. It must have been somebody else.
travis		No. It was you. You had some manila folders and a pink bag from Saks.
betsy		You're right! Now I remember! It was after the Western regional planners were in town and the meeting went late. The next day I was completely bushed. It was unbelievable.
travis		If it wasn't for a drunk I would have picked you up. He wanted to go to the DMZ.
betsy		The DMZ?
travis		South Bronx. The worst. I tried to ditch him, but he was already in the cab, so I had to take him. That's the law. Otherwise I would have picked you up.
betsy		That would have been quite a coincidence.
travis		You'd be surprised how often you see the same people, get the same fare. People have patterns. They do more or less the same things every day. I can tell.
betsy		Well, I don't go to the Plaza every night.
travis		I didn't mean you. But just ordinary people. A guy I know - Dough-Boy - met his wife that way. They got to talking. She said she usually caught the bus so he started picking her up at the bus stop, taking her home with the flag up.
betsy		That's very romantic. Some of your fares must be interesting. See any stars, politicians, deliver any babies yet?
travis		Well, no... not really... had some famous people in the cab.  I got this guy who makes lasers. Not regular lasers, not the big kind. Little lasers, pocket sized, small enough to clip your belt like a transistor radio, like a gun, you know. Like a ray gun. Zap.
betsy		 What hours do you work?
travis		I work a single, which means there's no replacement - no second man on the cab. Six to six, sometimes eight. Seventy-two hours a week.
betsy		 You mean you work seventy-two hours a week.
travis		Sometimes 76 or 80. Sometimes I squeeze a few more hours in the morning. Eighty miles a day, a hundred miles a night.
betsy		You must be rich.
travis		 it keeps ya busy.
betsy		You know what you remind me of?
travis		What?
betsy		That song by Kris Kristofferson, where it's said "Like a pusher, party truth, partly ficition, a walking contradiction". 
travis		I'm no pusher, Betsy. Honest. I never have pushed.
travis		I didn't mean that, Travis. Just the part about the contradiction.
travis		 Oh. Who was that again?
betsy		The singer?
travis		Yeah. Yes. I don't follow music too much.
betsy		 Kris Kristofferson.
man's voice		St. Regis Hotel.
tom		It's 12:30 now. You'll have fifteen minutes before the actual luncheon begins.
assistant		I don't think we have to worry about anybody here committing themselves until things start coming in from California.
travis		 Say, aren't you Charles Palantine, the candidate?
palantine		 Yes I am.
travis		Well, I'm one of your biggest supporters. I tell everybody that comes in this cab that they should vote for you.
palantine		 Why, thank you Travis.
travis		I'm sure you'll win, sir. Everybody I know is going to vote for you.  I was going to put one of your stickers on my taxi but the company said it was against their policy.
palantine		 I'll tell you, Travis, I've learned more about this country sitting in taxi cabs than in the board room of General Motors.
tom		 And in some other places too...
palantine		Travis, what single thing would you want the next President of this country to do most?
travis		I don't know, sir. I don't follow political issues much.
palantine		There must be something...
palantine		 I know what you mean, Travis, and it's not going to be easy. We're going to have to make some radical changes.
travis		 Damn straight.
palantine		Nice talking to you, Travis.
travis		 Thank you, sir. You're a good man, sir.
betsy		You didn't have to spend your money - ?
travis		 He'll, what else can I do with it all?
betsy		Travis, you haven't even played the record?
travis		 Yeah, well my stereo player is broke. But I'm sure the record is OK.
betsy		Your stereo broke? God, I could hardly stand that. I live on music.
travis		I don't follow music much. I'd like to though.  Honest.
betsy		 So you haven't heard this record yet?
travis		No.  I thought maybe you could play it for me on your player.
betsy		What are you doing?
travis		 I bought a couple of tickets.
betsy		But this is a porno movie.
travis		No, these are the kind that couples go to. They're not like the other movies. All kinds of couples go. Honest. I've seen them.
travis		 Damn.
betsy		What's wrong?
travis		I forgot to get the Coca-Cola.
travis		Where are you going?
betsy		I'm leaving.
travis		What do you mean?
betsy		These are not the kind of movies I go to.
travis		Well, I don't follow movies too much...
betsy		You mean these are the only kind of movies you go to?
travis		This is sort of high class...
betsy		I mean porno movies.
travis		 Well... mostly...
betsy		My God!
travis		We can go to another movie if you like, I don't care. I got money. There's plenty...
betsy		If you just wanted to fuck, why didn't you just come right out and say it?
travis		... there's plenty of movies around here. I haven't seen any of them, but I'm sure they're good.
betsy		No, Travis. You're a sweet guy and all that, but I think this is it. I'm going home.
travis		 There's plenty of movies around here.
betsy		No, I don't feel so good. We're just two very different kinds of people, that's all.
travis		 Huh?
betsy		It's very simple. You go your way, I'll go mine. Thanks anyway, Travis.
travis		But... Betsy...
betsy		I'm getting a taxi.
travis		 What about the record?
betsy		Keep it.
travis		Can I call you?
travis		 Please, Betsy, I bought it for you.
betsy		All right, I'll accept the record.
betsy		Taxi!
travis		But I got a taxi.
travis		 you feeling better? You said you didn't feel so good...
professional passenger		Jackson Heights.
travis		I'm off duty.
professional passenger		You mean you don't want to go out to Jackson Heights?
travis		No, I'm off duty.
professional passenger		Then how come your "Off Duty" light wasn't on.
travis		It was on.  it just takes a while to warm up. Like a TV.
young passenger		471 Central Park West.
young passenger		Just pull over to the curb a moment.
young passenger		Yeah, that's fine. Just sit here.
young passenger		Cabbie, ya see that light up there on the seventh floor, three windows from this side of the building?
young passenger		What do you think of that, cabbie?
young passenger		Huh?  What do you think of that, huh?
young passenger		I'm gonna kill her with a .44 Magnum pistol.
andy		Hello Travis.
andy		This is fine, Dough-Boy  Pay Dough-Boy here.
travis		20 bucks?
andy		Dough-Boy probably told you I don't carry any Saturday Night Specials or crap like that. It's all out of State, clean, brand new, top-of- the-line stuff.
travis		You got a .44 Magnum?
andy		That's an expensive gun.
travis		I got money.
andy		 It's a monster. Can stop a car -- put a bullet right into the block. A premium high resale gun. $350 -- that's only a hundred over list.
andy		I could sell this gun in Harlem for $500 today - but I just deal high quality goods to high quality people. 
travis		I want a .32.   Revolver. And a palm gun. That .22 there.
andy		That's the Colt .25 - a fine little gun. Don't do a lot of damage, but it's as fast as the Devil. Handy little gun, you can carry it almost anywhere. I'll throw it in for
travis		How much for everything.
andy		The .32's $150 - and you're really getting a good deal now - and all together it comes to, ah, seven eighty-five for four pieces and a holster. He'll, I'll give you the holster, we'll make it seventy-five and you've got a deal - a good one.
travis		How much to get a permit to carry?
andy		Well, you're talking big money now. I'd say at least five grand, maybe more, and it would take a while to check it out. The way things are going now $5.000 is probably low. You see, I try not to fool with the small-time crap. Too risky, too little bread. Say 6 G's, but if I get the permit it'll be as solid as the Empire State Building.
travis		Nah, this'll be fine.
andy		You can't carry in a cab even with a permit - so why bother?
travis		Is there a firing range around?
andy		Sure, here, take this card, go to this place and give 'em the card. They'll charge you, but there won't be any hassle.
andy		You in Nam? Can't help but notice your jacket?
travis		 Huh?
andy		Vietnam? I saw it on your jacket. Where were you? Bet you got to handle a lot of weapons out there.
travis		Yeah. I was all around. One hospital, then the next.
andy		Sure.
andy		You like ball games?
travis		Huh?
andy		I can get you front and center. What do you like? I can get you Mets, Knicks, Rangers? Hell, I can get you the Mayor's box.
travis		Nah. I ain't interested.
andy		Okay, okay.
andy		Wait a second, Travis. I'll walk you out.  CUT TO:  SEVERAL WEEKS LATER.  The face of TRAVIS' apartment has changed. The long, blank wall behind the table is now covered with tacked-up charts, pictures, newspaper-clippings, maps. CAMERA does not come close enough to discern the exact contents of these clippings.  Travis is in C.U. in the middle of the floor doing push-ups. He is bareback, wearing only his jeans. There is a long scar across his left side.  TRAVIS  Total organization is necessary. Every muscle must be tight.  INT. FIRING RANGE  The CRACKING SOUND of rapid-fire pistol shots fills the musty air of the firing range. The walls are heavily soundproofed, and sawdust is spread over the floor.  Travis stands rock solid, firing the .44 Magnum at an arm's length.  With each blasting discharge from the Magnum, Travis' body shudders and shakes, his arm as if each recoil from the giant gun was a direct attack on his masculinity.  Travis fires the Magnum as quickly as he can re-set, re-aim and re-fire. The Magnum is empty, he sets it down, picks up the .38 Special and begins firing as soon as he can aim. After the .38, comes the .25: It is as if he were in a contest to see how quickly he can fire the pistols. After all the guns are discharged, he begins reloading them without a moment's hesitation.  Downrange, the red and white targets have the black outline of a human figure drawn over them. The contour-man convulses under the steady barrage of Travis' rapid-fire shots.
iris		Come on, mister, let's get outta here -- quick.
sport		 Come on, baby, let's go.  This is all a real drag.
sport		Just forget all about this, cabbie. It's nothing.
travis		Hey 'Melio.
travis		Hey dude!
travis		You're gonna have to cover me on this one, 'Melio.  I can't stay for the cop show.
travis		The hell I can't.  It's no sweat for you.  What is this for you, number five?
travis		Thanks a lot.
travis		 Damn, damn.
wizard		You know Eddie, he's the new hippie kid in our group, long hair...
wizard		...he called up the Dispatcher last night.  Charlie McCall, our dispatcher...
wizard		That's the guy.  Eddie calls him up and says, "Hey, what do you want me to do.  I'm over here at Poly Prep. I got a girl in the back and she doesn't have the fare.  She wants me to come in back and collect. What should I do?
wizard		McCall says. "How much on the meter?"  Eddie comes back and says "Two-fifty." McCall says, "Is she worth it".
wizard		And the kid says, "Yeah.  She's about 19, good-lookin."  McCall says, "What can I tell you?"
fourth cabbie		She should have told him to get an OK from the front office. 
wizard		McCall says, "Well, if you want some help I'll see if I can send some units out."  CHARLIE T Yeah.  About a hundred and fifty.  DOUGH-BOY I hope he had a checker.
wizard		She was just a kid.  Stoned, you know.
wizard		You're getting a rep, Travis.
travis		Slow.
wizard		 One of these days we're gonna turn you in, Charlie T.  Fleecin the hicks like that.
wizard		Well, I'm shovin' on.
travis		Hey Wiz, just a second.  I wanna talk to you.
travis		 Hey Wiz.
travis		 Wiz?
wizard		Yeah?
travis		Look, ah, we never talked much, you and me...
wizard		Yeah?
travis		I wanted to ask you something, on account you've been around so long.
wizard		Shoot.  They don't call me the Wizard for nothing.
travis		Well, I just, you know...
wizard		Things got ya down?
travis		Real down.
wizard		It happens.
travis		Sometimes it gets so I just don't know what I'm gonna do.  I get some real crazy ideas, you know?  Just go out and do somethin.
wizard		The taxi life, you mean.
travis		Yeah.
wizard		 I know.
travis		Like do anything, you know.
wizard		Travis, look, I dig it.  Let me explain.  You choose a certain way of life.  You live it.  It becomes what you are.  I've been a hack 27 years, the last ten at night. Still don't own my own cab.  I guess that's the way I want it. You see, that must be what I am.
wizard		 Look, a person does a certain thing and that's all there is to it.  It becomes what he is.  Why fight it? What do you know?  How long you been a hack, a couple months? You're like a peg and you get dropped into a slot and you got to squirm and wiggle around a while until you fit in.
travis		 That's just about the dumbest thing I ever heard, Wizard.
wizard		What do you expect, Bertrand Russell?  I've been a cabbie all my life, what do I know?  I don't even know what you're talking about.
travis		Neither do I, I guess.
wizard		You fit in.  It's lonely, it's rough at first.  But you fit in. You got no choice.
wizard		Yeah.  Sorry, Wizard.
wizard		Don't worry, Killer.  You'll be all right.  I seen enough to know.
travis		Thanks.
tom		Betsy, come over here a moment.
betsy		What is it?  I'm busy.
tom		 Just follow me.
tom		Look there.  No, over further - get your glasses - yes, over there.  Isn't that little guy the same guy that was bugging you around the office about a month ago?
betsy		No, I don't think so.  That's someone else.
tom		Now look more closely.  Look around the eyes and chin.  See?  See there?
travis		Are you a Secret Service Man?
travis		I've seen a lot of suspicious- looking people around here today.
travis		Oh, lots.  I don't know where they all are now.  There used to be one standing over there. 
travis		I kinda thought I might make a good one.  I'm very observant.
travis		I was in the Army too.  And I'm good with crowds.
travis		What kind of guns do you guys use? .38's?
travis		You would, huh?
travis		My name is Henry Krinkle -- that's with a "K." K-R-I-N-K-L-E.  I live at 13 1/2 Hopper Avenue, Fair Lawn, New Jersey.  Zip code 07410.  Got that?
travis		Great, hey.  Thanks a lot.
hippie hooker		Hey cabbie!  You comin' or goin'?
palantine		The time has come to put an end to the things that divide us: racism, poverty, way -- and to those persons who seek to divide us. Never have I seen such a group of high officials from the President to Senate leaders to Cabinet members...
palantine		 All their games are over.  Now is the time to stand up against such foolishness, propaganda and demagoguery.  Now is the time for one man to stand up and accept his neighbor, for one man to give in order that all might receive.  Is unity and love of common good such a lost thing?
policeman		 Hey, cabbie, you can't park here.
travis		 Sorry, officer.
policeman		You waiting for a fare?
travis		No, officer.
policeman		All right, move it.
happy anniversary		To a Couple Who Have Found the Perfect Combination For Marriage...
travis		 Hello.
iris		You looking for some action?
travis		Well...I guess so.
iris		 His name is Sport.  Go talk to him. I'll wait here.
travis		You name Sport?
sport		Here, officer, take me in.  I'm clean.  I didn't do it.  Got a ticket once in Jersey.  That's all. Honest, officer.
travis		Your name Sport?
sport		Anything you say, officer.
travis		I'm no cop.  I want some action.
sport		I saw.  $20 fifteen minutes.  $30 half hour.
travis		Shit.
sport		Take it or leave it.
sport		No, not me.  There'll be an elderly gent to take the bread.
sport		Catch you later, Copper.
travis		I'm no cop.
sport		Well, if you are, it's entrapment already.
travis		I'm hip.
sport		Funny, you don't look hip. 
iris		This is my room.
old man		Hey cowboy!
old man		 Gimme the rod, cowboy.
old man		This ain't Dodge City, cowboy.  You don't need no piece.  I'm keepin' time.
travis		Why you hang around with them greasers?
iris		A girl needs protection.
travis		Yeah.  From the likes of them.
iris		 That cigarette burns out, your time is up.
travis		What's your name?
iris		Easy.
travis		That ain't much of a name.
iris		It's easy to remember.  Easy Lay.
travis		What's your real name?
iris		I don't like my real name.
travis		 What's your real name?
iris		Iris.
travis		That's a nice name.
iris		That's what you think.
travis		Don't you remember me?  Button your shirt.
iris		 Why?  Who are you?
travis		I drive a taxi.  You tried to get away one night.  Remember?
iris		No.
travis		You tried to run away in my taxi but your friend -- Sport -- wouldn't let you.
iris		I don't remember.
travis		It don't matter.  I'm gonna get you outta here. 
iris		We better make it, or Sport'll get mad.  How do you want to make it?
travis		 I don't want to make it.  I came here to get you out.
iris		You want to make it like this? 
travis		 Can't you listen to me?  Don't you want to get out of here?
iris		Why should I want to get out of here?  This is where I live.
travis		 But you're the one that wanted to get away.  You're the one that came into my cab.
iris		I musta been stoned.
travis		Do they drug you?
iris		 Oh, come off it, man.
travis		Listen...
iris		Don't you want to make it?  Can't you make it?
travis		 I want to help you.
iris		 I can help you.
travis		Fuck it!  Fuck it!  Fuck it!  Fuck it!  Fuck it!  Fuck it!  Fuck it!
iris		 You can do it in my mouth.
travis		Don't you understand anything?
iris		You don't have to make it, mister.
travis		 Do you understand why I came here?
iris		I think so.  I tried to get into your cab one night, and now you want to come and take me away.
travis		Don't you want to go?
iris		I can leave anytime I want.
travis		But that one night?
iris		I was stoned.  That's why they stopped me.  When I'm not stoned, I got no place else to go.  They just protect me from myself.
travis		Well, I tried.
iris		 I understand, mister.  It means something, really.
travis		 Can I see you again?
iris		That's not hard to do.
travis		No, I mean really.  This is nothing for a person to do.
iris		Sure.  All right.  We'll have breakfast.  I get up about one o'clock.  Tomorrow.
travis		 Well tomorrow noon there's a... I got a...
iris		Well, you want to or not?
travis		 O.K. It's a date.  I'll see you here, then.
tom		Oh, Iris?
iris		Yes?
tom		My name's Travis.
iris		Thank you, Travis.
travis		So long, Iris. 
old man		 I think this is yours, cowboy.
travis		 Here's the twenty bucks, old man. You better damn well spend it right.
old man		Come back anytime you want, cowboy. But without the rod -- please.
assistant		Well, at least it wasn't chicken.
palantine		It wasn't?  I thought it was.  It tasted like chicken.
tom		C'mon, Senator.  That was a class dinner.  The St. Regis is a class joint.  That was veal.
palantine		Was it?  It sure tasted like chicken to me.  Lately, everything tastes like chicken to me.
assistant		Everything?  Got to watch your gut.
palantine		What about it?  I took 20 off before we started this thing.
assistant		And you've put ten of it back on.
palantine		Ten?  I don't think so.  You really think so?  Ten?
tom		Those TV cameras do.  I caught the rally on CBS.  You looked a little paunchy.
palantine		I don't think I gained ten pounds.
palantine		 Jesus Christ.
iris		... and after that Sport and I just started hanging out...
travis		Where is home?
iris		I got so many sunglasses.  I couldn't live without my shades, man.  I must have twelve pair of shades.
travis		Where?
iris		Pittsburgh.
travis		I ain't ever been there, but it don't seem like such a bad place.
iris		 Why do you want me to go back to my parents?  They hate me.  Why do you think I split?  There ain't nothin there.
travis		But you can't live like this.  It's hell.  Girls should live at home.
iris		 Didn't you ever hear of women's lib?
travis		 Young girls are supposed to dress up, go to school, play with boys, you know, that kinda stuff.
iris		God, you are square.
travis		 At least I don't walk the streets like a skunk pussy.  I don't screw and fuck with killers and junkies.
iris		Who's a killer?
travis		That fella "Sport" looks like a killer to me.
iris		He never killed nobody.  He's a Libra.
travis		Huh?
iris		I'm a Libra too.  That's why we get along so well.
travis		He looks like a killer.
iris		I think Cancer's make the best lovers.  My whole family are air signs.
travis		He shoots dope too.
iris		What makes you so high and mighty? Did you ever look at your own eyeballs in a mirror.  You don't get eyes like that from...
travis		He's worse than an animal.  Jail's too good for scum like that.
iris		Rock music died in 1970, that's what I think.  Before that it was fantastic.  I can tell you that. Everybody was crashing, hanging out at the Fillmore.  Me and my girlfriend Ann used to go up the fire escape, you know?  It was unbelievable.  Rock Stars everywhere. That Airplane--that's my group, man. All Libras.  But now everybody's split or got sick or busted.  I think I'll move to one of those communes in Vermont, you know? That's where all the smart ones went.  I stayed here.
travis		I never been to a commune.  I don't know.  I saw pictures in a magazine, and it didn't look very clean to me.
iris		Why don't you come to a commune with me?
travis		Me?  I could never go to a place like that.
iris		Why not?
travis		 I... I don't get along with people like that.
iris		You a scorpion?  That's it.  You're a scorpion.  I can tell.
travis		Besides, I've got to stay here.
iris		Why?
travis		I've got something important to do. I can't leave.
iris		What's so important?
travis		I can't say -- it's top secret. I'm doing something for the Army. The cab thing is just part time.
iris		You a narc?
travis		Do I look like a narc?
iris		Yeah.
iris		God, I don't know who's weirder, you or me.
travis		 What are you going to do about Sport and that old bastard?
iris		Just leave'em.  There's plenty of other girls.
travis		You just gonna leave 'em?
iris		 What should I do?  Call the cops?
travis		Cops don't do nothin.
iris		Sport never treated me bad, honest. Never beat me up once.
travis		You can't leave 'em to do the same to other girls.  You should get rid of them.
iris		How?
travis		 Somebody should kill 'em.  Nobody'd miss 'em.
iris		 God.  I know where they should have a commune for you.  They should have a commune for you at Bellevue.
travis		 I'm sorry, Iris.  I didn't mean that.
iris		You're not much with girls, are you?
travis		 Well, Iris, I look at it this way. A lot of girls come into my cab, some of them very beautiful.  And I figure all day long men have been after them: trying to touch them, talk to them, ask them out.  And they hate it.  So I figure the best I can do for them is not bother them at all.  So I don't say a thing.  I pretend I'm not even there.  I figure they'll understand that and appreciate me for it.
iris		Do you really think I should go to the commune?
travis		I think you should go home, but otherwise I think you should go. It would be great for you.  You have to get away from here.  The city's a sewer, you gotta get out of it.
iris		Sure you don't want to come with me?
travis		I can't.  Otherwise, I would.
iris		I sure hate to go alone...
travis		I'll give you the money to go.  I don't want you to take any from those guys.
iris		You don't have to.
travis		I want to -- what else can I do with my money?  You may not see me again--for a while.
iris		What do you mean?
travis		My work may take me out of New York.
sport		What's the matter, baby, don't you feel right?
iris		It's my stomach.  I got the flu.
sport		Oh, baby, there ain't no flu.  You know that, baby.
iris		Honest, Sport.
sport		You're just tired, baby.  You just need your man.  I am your man, you know.  You are my woman.  I wouldn't be nothing without you.
sport		I know this may not mean anything to you, baby, but sometimes I get so emotional, sometimes I think, I wish every man could have what I have now, that every woman could be loved the way I love you.  I go home and I think what it would be without you, and then I thank God for you.  I think to myself, man, you are so lucky.  You got a woman who loves you, who needs you, a woman who keeps you strong.  It's just you and me.  I'm nothing without you.  I can go like this for ever and ever.  We can do it, baby.  You and me.  Just you and me.
palantine		... and with your help we will go on to victry at the polls Tuesday. 
travis		Hey, Sport.  How are things?
sport		 O.K., cowboy.
travis		 How are things in the pimp business, hey Sport?
sport		What's going on?
travis		I'm here to see Iris.
sport		Iris?
sport		Wha -- ?
travis		Yeah, Iris.  You know anybody by that name?
sport		No.  Hillbilly, you'd better get your wise ass outa here and quick, or you're gonna be in trouble.
travis		 You carry a gun?
travis		Get it.
sport		 Hey, mister, I don't know what's going on here.  This don't make any sense.
travis		 Show it to me.
travis		Now suck on that.
old man		Don't kill me!  Don't kill me!
iris		Don't kill him, Travis!  Don't kill him!
travis		Pgghew!  Pgghew!
wizard		A private-owner wanted to swap wheels.  Now my tires were brand new. "Give me a couple days," I says.
travis		 Hey Charlie T.
wizard		Howsit, Charlie?  Hey Travis, I think you gota fare.
travis		Shit. 
female voice		34 East 56th Street.
betsy		Hello, Travis.
travis		Hello, Betsy.
travis		I see where Palantine got the nomination.
betsy		Yes.  It won't be long now. Seventeen days.
travis		Well, I hope he wins.
betsy		 How are you, Travis?  I read about you in the papers.
travis		Oh, I got over that.  It was nothing, really.  The papers always blow these things up.  A little stiffness.  That'll go away.  I just sleep more, that's all.
travis		Here we are.
travis		 No, no, please.  This fare's on me. Please.
betsy		Thank you, Travis.
betsy		Travis?
travis		Yeah.
betsy		Maybe I'll see you again sometime, huh?
travis		 Sure.
****Dialogues from script :Ted.txt****

greenbaum		Uh oh.
greenbaum		W...what?  2 CONTINUED:
greenbaum		Why would Jesus want that?
john		Hey guys, can I play?
greenbaum		Yeah, Bennett, get outta here!
john		Wow!
john's dad		I guess Santa paid attention to how good you were this year, huh?
john's mom		 Merry Christmas, John.
john		He talks!
john		Hey Teddy... can I tell you something nobody knows?
john		Teddy?  Teddy?!
teddy		Hug me.
john		Did you... did you just talk?
teddy		You're my best friend, John.
john		 You're alive?!
teddy		Uh-huh.
john		Whoa...
teddy		Don't look so surprised. You're the one who wished for it, aren't you?
john		Yeah, I... I did wish for it.
teddy		Well, here I am.
john		You mean... we get to be best friends... for real?
teddy		For real.
john		Forever and ever?
teddy		Sounds good to me.
john's dad		One of the best.  And I particularly enjoyed the gift you gave me last night.
john		Mom! Dad! Guess what?! My teddy bear's alive!
john		No mom, he's alive! For real! Look!
teddy		Merry Christmas, everybody!
john's dad		Jesus H. Fuck!
teddy		Let's all be best friends!
john's mom		Oh my god...
john's dad		John, get away from that thing! Come over here, right now!
john		BUT DAD--
john's dad		GET OVER HERE!
john		Dad, no!
teddy		Is it a hugging gun?
john's dad		Helen, get my gun, and call the police!
teddy		I'm sorry, Mr. Bennett. I didn't mean to scare anybody. I just wanted John and I to be friends. JOHN Yeah, Dad! I made a wish last night that Teddy was alive, and my wish came true!
john's mom		 My god, Steve... it's a miracle. A Christmas miracle.
newscaster		Out of a Boston suburb comes what is, without a doubt, the most incredible story in the history of broadcast news...
southern newscaster		Look what Jesus did! Look what Jesus did! Look what Jesus did!
teddy		Yeah, John?
john		Do you promise we'll always be together?
teddy		I promise.
john		Thunder buddies for life.  11 CONTINUED:
ted		All I'm sayin' is Boston women are are, on the whole, a paler, uglier sort than women from the elsewheres of life.
john		That's bullshit, what about Lori? She's hot.
ted		Lori's from Pennsylvania, not a Boston girl.  16 CONTINUED:
john		They're not that bad.
ted		The fact that you have to say they're not that bad means that they are that bad. They turn into drunk, half-white, half- pink monsters after 2 hours at any beach.
john		I-- It's workin' for me.
ted		I think it sucks, I'm gonna have a talk with him.
john		Yeah, I don't know that you wanna go to a drug dealer with complaints.
ted		No, I know this guy a long time. I've known him since 9/11. Remember, I was like, "Aw, shit. 9/11. I gotta get high." JOHN  Oh fuck, is it nine-thirty? Shit, I gotta get to work.
ted		Hey, you mind pickin' up a bird feeder on the way home? I wanna start enjoying the beauty of birds.
ted		I'll drive you, I feel fine. 17
john		Aw, man.
ted		Is it bad?
john		It's not good.
john		Shit.
ted		It's okay, go, go, I'll pull outta here.  Hi, Thomas! How are ya?
other driver		Asshole!
ted		 Easy, Jersey license!
thomas		John, it's almost ten o'clock.
john		I know, I'm sorry, it wasn't my fault. THOMAS What do you mean?
john		 I guess I... wasn't really prepared for a follow-up question.
thomas		John, all you have to do is not fuck up, and you get my job when I go to corporate next month. You will be the new branch manager. All you have to do is not fuck up, and all you're doing is fucking up. Not that I don't think you're too fucked up to handle not fucking up my job, but you happen to be the least fucked-up person in the whole office. The next least fucked-up is Alix, and you've been here three fucking years longer than him. But I'm telling you, I will promote the fuck out of him if you fuck up one more time. That is all. Fuck.
john		Sir, I promise, you're not gonna regret promoting the fuck out of me.
thomas		Good. I like hearing that. Because in a month my life now could be your life: a cushy $38,000-a-year branch manager who's personal friends with Tom Skerritt. It's not a bad life, is it?
john		N--no.
thomas		Did you know I'm friends with Tom Skerritt?
john		No.
thomas		I'll show you something I don't show too many people, because I don't want anyone treating me differently.
thomas		Goddamn right, wow. Now get outta here. I'm gonna dock you for being late, and for the scratch on that car. Try and be a little more responsible tomorrow.
john		I will, sir. Thank you. I won't let you down, Goose.
thomas		What?
john		Top Gun.
thomas		So?
john		Tom Skerritt.
thomas		Oh.
guy		There you go, here's your key and rental agreement, and a complimentary map of Boston. Thanks for choosing Liberty, drive safely.
guy		Hey, heard you got busted.
john		Jesus, Guy, you look like shit, what happened?
guy		I don't know, man. I got fuckin' wasted last night, and my phone says I texted somebody at 3:15 asking them to beat me up. And then at 4:30 I texted the same person saying thanks.
john		And you don't remember it?
guy		No. Same as last time. JOHN It... it just seems gay, doesn't it?
guy		I don't know. Maybe, yeah.
john		Do you think you're part of some, like, gay beat-up underworld? Like one of those gay beat-up clubs?
guy		I don't know. I dig chicks. I don't remember any of it, I was so fucked up. I might be gay, I don't know. You mind covering for me for a bit? I'm gonna go lay down in the john.
alix		Hey you buddies. Where's it hanging?
alix		Ah, I didn't get in because the bouncer was doucheface, but I made friends in the line.
guy		Oh, well, that's good I guess.
tanya		Hi you guys.
alix		You look so pretty today.
tanya		Aw, thanks Alix, I worked out this morning.
alix		I can tell, you are less fat than you have been.
john		Hey guys, does anybody know a nice restaurant? Like something where the napkins are cloth?
guy		For what?
john		Lori and I have been dating four years tomorrow, and I wanted to take her someplace nice.
tanya		Oh wow, congratulations, John.
guy		You guys`ve been goin' out for four years?
john		Yeah.
guy		THAT'S IN--  --saaaane, my longest relationship was like six months, and then she farted in her sleep. I'm like, I am outta here, man. Was gone before she woke up.
john		Wow, you're... not very tolerant, huh. GUY Lori ever fart in front of you?
john		Yes.
guy		Really.
john		Yes. Many times.
guy		You Italian?
john		No. GUY Oh.
john		Why?
guy		I dunno, just seems like-- never mind, take her to Benihana.
tanya		Don't you think after four years, maybe she's probably hoping for something more than dinner?
john		Like what?
tanya		Well, if I were her, I'd be expecting a proposal.
john		Oh come on, nobody's expecting anybody to propose. Marriage isn't... I mean, isn't love enough? I submit that love is enough.
guy		You could put the ring in her ass and let her fart it out.
john		So bad, but so good.
ted		Yes, a study in contrasts.
john		Oh, I love this part.  STAND FOR EVERY ONE OF US!
john		 HE'LL SAVE WITH A MIGHTY HAND/EVERY MAN EVERY WOMAN EVERY CHILD WITH A MIGHTY FLASH!
ted		Fuck yeah, Flash!  Hey, before I forget, let's nail down a plan for the Bruins game tomorrow night.
john		I can't, I'm taking Lori to dinner.
ted		For what?
john		Well, we've been dating four years tomorrow.
ted		Oh, fuck me. Nice.
john		Lemme ask you something... you don't think she's gonna be expecting something... big, do you?
ted		 What, like anal?
john		No, like... a circular gold thing on the finger.
ted		Oh, fuck that! It's four years! You and I have been together 27 years!
john		Stop it! Jesus Christ, knock it off! He throws Ted off of him.
ted		No, John. It's a bad idea. And it's the wrong time. What with the economy and... the credit bubble... the Supreme Court... I mean, look at Haiti.
john		I guess I didn't think about that.
john		This is the American fantasy, right here. A professional NFL player is called upon to save the world.
ted		Tom Brady could do that.
john		Tom Brady could do that. The front door opens and LORI, an attractive girl in her mid to late 20's, enters holding several grocery bags.
lori		Hi guys.
john		Hey, sweetie.
ted		Hey, Lori.
lori		Ooh. I think you just got me stoned.
john		 What do we got there?
lori		Turkey burgers.
ted		Oh. Okay. Are we having homos over for dinner or something?
lori		 No, just you homos.
ted		She's funny, John. You got yourself a regular Toni Collette.
lori		Wait, who's that? Is that good?
john		She's a comedienne.
lori		Oh nice. Is she pretty?
john		She's as pretty as she is funny. How was work? LORI Good.
john		How's your dickhead boss?
lori		Rex is fine. He only hit on me once today, so that's good.
john		I'm not saying this to be mean, but I really hope that fucker gets leukemia.
lori		He's harmless, I can handle it.
ted		Hey Johnny, while you're up, grab me a beer, huh?
john		 Oh yeah, a coupla' Charles Brew-Kowskis?
ted		Yes, a Brew-stoy-ovski would be nice right about now.
lori		Jesus.
john		Maybe a Mike Brew-ga-slow-ski?
ted		Perhaps a Ted Kazyn-brewski?
lori		Y'know, I think I might also have a Martina Navra-ti-brewski.
lori		Bullshit, what do you mean?
john		It doesn't work, the name has to have a "ski" at the end of it. You just put "brewski" on the end of Martina Navratolova.
lori		I thought we were just doing funny names.
ted		No, it's gotta have a "ski" at the end. Otherwise where's the challenge? If there's no "ski" at the end of the root word, then we would just be idiots saying nonsense.
lori		 Oh, look, they found those missing hikers.
john		They did? What happened?
lori		It says they got separated and one of them had his foot trapped under a rock for five days.
john		You know, if your leg got trapped under a rock, I'd chew it off to get you free.
lori		 You would?
john		I sure would.  Is that cannibalism?
lori		No, I think it's only cannibalism if you swallow. JOHN Oh yeah, no, I don't swallow.
lori		Really? That's not what I heard about you.
john		It's not true, I'm a fuckin' classy broad.
lori		 Y'know, speaking of classy, Ciao Bella's a really expensive restaurant. If you want, we can go somewhere else tomorrow night. I don't care, as long as we're together.
john		You kiddin' me? Four years we been going out, I'm takin' you to the best place in town. I been crappin' out room for it for two days, I know exactly what I'm gonna order.
lori		 You're disgusting.
john		And you get to pick any bottle of wine.
lori		Ooh.
john		Any bottle of 2012 wine.
lori		Oh, are the new wines in?
john		They are in and they. Are. Fresh.
john		Ah, come on!
lori		 I don't understand it, 35 years old, and you're still scared of a little thunder.
john		I am not. We hear another thunderclap. Ted runs into the room with no warning and leaps into bed, right between Lori and John.
ted		Thunder buddies for life, right Johnny? C'mon, let's sing the thunder song!
ted		Boomp.  30 CONTINUED:
gina		Wow...Baby, I'm not saying this to be nasty, but you look really tired.
lori		Oh, I'm okay... except I didn't have time for breakfast, the garage was full, I spilled coffee on my leg, and I have a boyfriend who can't sleep through a storm without his teddy bear.
gina		I don't understand why you keep putting up with him.
tracy		Yeah, I mean, the guy's thirty-five years old and he's working for a rental car service.
lori		No, it's not that, I don't care about that. I'd love him even if he was a janitor. I mean, he's got a huge heart, we laugh together all the time, and it's just a bonus that he's like the hottest guy in Boston.
gina		Yeah but the hottest guy in Boston is like being the classiest Kardashian.
lori		I just wish he could get his life together, you know? Our life. And he can't, and I swear to god, it's all because of that bear.
michelle		You should give him an ultimatum: it's you or the bear.
lori		I can't do that, he'd be devastated. And I mean... what if he chose Ted?
michelle		Oh come on, you don't really think that.
lori		Not really, but what if?
michelle		Well then... things happen for a reason. TRACY No they don't. That's just something girls say when something bad happens to them that they don't understand.
gina		Fuck off, Tracy.
rex		Well hello there. Sorry if I'm interrupting any private girl talk about Channing Tatum's index finger but Lori I need to see you in my office.
lori		Actually Rex, I have a lot of work I need to get to--
rex		Oh, this is work, I swear.
lori		 Okay, fine.
michelle		He's such an asshole.
gina		Out of control. Such a sleaze.
tracy		You guys are so pathetic. You're shitting on Rex, and you both had sex with him.
gina		And so did you.
tracy		Well, I didn't want one of you whores getting promoted before me.
lori		So... what do you need to talk to me about, Rex?
rex		See that? That's me on the diving team in high school. We dove the shit outta that pool that year. If you look close, you can see the outline of my root.
lori		 You promised this was about work.
rex		Lori, what is wrong with you? Why don't you like me? I'm rich, I'm good-looking, my dad owns the company--
lori		I have a boyfriend, Rex. I think you know this.
rex		Yeah, the guy with the teddy bear, that's a cute relationship, but I'm talking about being with a real man, Lori.  Someone who wears a blazer on an airplane.
lori		 I'm very busy.
rex		Well then, how do you have all that time to be in my head?
lori		Goodbye, Rex.
lori		 That was perfect.
lori		Oh no, I'm fine, thanks.
john		Actually, could you wrap just this up for me? I wanna scare the shit outta somebody.
waitress		 34 CONTINUED:
lori		 What are you, five years old?
john		Yeah, but I read at a six year-old level.
waiter		Senor. Senora, here is your dessert and champagne.
lori		Ooh, Cristal.
john		It's a special night. We've been dating for four years.  And hey, all those rich black people can't be wrong, right?
lori		It doesn't seem like four years, does it?
john		 No, it doesn't.
lori		You had no business being out on that dance floor, but I'm glad you were.
john		Oh my god, are you okay? Oh god, I'm so sorry!  35 CONTINUED:
lori		 Yeah, I'm... I'm fine.
john		Oh Jesus, I'm so so sorry! I didn't see you! It was an accident!
lori		Well, yeah, I... I would hope it was an accident.
john		Did you hurt your head?
lori		Um, yes. My head hurts a lot. JOHN Oh, man. Here, let me get you some ice.
lori		 N... No. No it's okay.
john		 I'm... I'm John. LORI I'm Lori.
lori		Okay, here's a question that'll show how much you actually care about me. You remember we stayed and talked until the place closed, and then we went for late night eggs and waffles, and we stayed there til 5 a.m. watching a movie on the little TV in the diner. Name the movie.
john		Octopussy.
lori		Gold star.
john		But does that show that I care about you, or I care about Roger Moore?
lori		I'm gonna give you the benefit of the doubt.
john		Thank you. And by the way, my dancing was not that bad. LORI  Your dancing was bad.
john		I had some cool moves.
lori		So do people with Parkinson's.
john		That's not how I remember it.
lori		Yeah, how do you remember it?
lori		Whatever you say, baby.  37 CONTINUED:
john		Hey, here's to four more years, huh?
lori		No, we didn't.
john		--But, I got you something anyway, in clear violation of the "no gift" rule.
lori		There was no such rule. John reaches into his jacket pocket and pulls out a small box. Lori looks excited.
john		Lori, I've wanted to give this to you for a long time.
lori		Oh, John.
john		Those are the ones you liked, right? From that kiosk at the mall? LORI Oh. Yeah.
john		Check out the card.
lori		 38 CONTINUED:
john		 Oh wow, a Hamilton!
lori		I remember you liked it when you saw Tom Brady wearing one in GQ.
john		Yeah, I mean his was analog, but this is so awesome, I love it! She reacts a bit to this.
lori		John, I don't need the Hope diamond, all I want is--
john		I know, but it's important to me that you have the engagement ring you deserve. And what with the credit bubble... the Supreme Court... I mean, look at Haiti. LORI Look, I'm only saying this because I love you, but that's not realistic. You're never gonna have any kind of a career if you're always partying and wasting time with Ted.
john		Oh, Jesus, here we go--
lori		John, please get him to find his own place, so we can get on with our lives.
john		Look, can we talk about this another time, and just enjoy our anniversary dinner?  39 CONTINUED:
lori		Yeah. Fine. Let's talk about it ten years from now.
john		 Lori, we can't talk about this every time we go out. Look, he's been my best friend since I was eight. And I was not a popular child. You have to understand, I had no friends before he came along. He's the only reason I ever gained any fucking confidence. I coulda wound up like that Asian kid at Virginia Tech, but I didn't. `Cause of him. So, y'know, I'm not that psyched to just, like, kick him out.
lori		Well, it's good to know that a talking teddy bear is the only thing that kept you from gunning down your classmates, but John, you're not eight. You're thirty-five. And unless you're too blind to notice, he's not your only friend anymore. You have me. And I love you.
john		I love you, too. You know that.
lori		Look, I've put the best physical years of my life into this. I mean, I'm cute now, but in a few years my body's gonna fall off a fucking cliff. Things'll be hanging and stretching in ways that might scare a man. I need to feel secure in the fact that you won't leave me when that happens.
john		Not only will I not leave you, it's gonna be even better. `Cause I can have sex with you, and press your arm fat against a comic book so I can see it backwards.
lori		And, my boobs and vagina will all be in the same place, so that's a lot less movin' around for you.
john		I can do it all with one hand.
lori		Exactly, and you can do whatever you want with the other hand.
john		I can write a novel. Maybe a bestseller.
lori		We can achieve critical acclaim and become rich just by screwing each other.
john		Well, I hope these jokes have distracted you from the actual problems in our relationship.
lori		 We can't put the real conversation off forever, John.
john		I dunno, I got a lotta fuckin' jokes.
john		 Ah shit, hang on, my phone fell under the seat somewhere. Can you call it?
lori		That's my ringtone?
john		 Oh, yeah...
lori		What is it? It sounds negative.
john		No, it's from The Notebook.
lori		All right, well I'll see you upstairs.
lori		What the hell is all this?!
ted		Lori! Hey, you're home early! The ladies and I were just watching "Romancing the Stone." Got it on Blu- Ray. Came in a two-pack with "Jewel of the Nile," but I don't know that we'll end up watchin' that one.
lori		This place is a wreck! Who are these girls?
ted		Oh, where are my manners? Lori, this is Angelique, Heavenly, Cherene, and Sauvignon Blanc. I love you girls. Y'know, somewhere out there are four terrible fathers I wish I could thank for this great night.
lori		What is that?!!!
ted		What's what?
lori		There is... a shit in the corner! On the floor! There's a shit!
ted		 Oh man, that's what Dierdre was doin' over there in the corner for so long. Remember, she was crouched over there and I thought she was just makin' a call or SOMETHIN'--
lori		There is a shit!! On my floor!!
ted		Yeah, she's passed out in the bathroom now, she seemed like she was hopped up on somethin'. I mean, mystery solved, I GUESS--
lori		What the fuck!!!!
ted		Lori, if I can-- now this is just speculation, but... is it possible that this is not so much about the stool in the corner, and more about maybe tonight's dinner not measuring up to your expectations?
lori		What!!! The fuck!!!
ted		 Ahaaaaa!
ted		 Hahaaa! That's my friend John. Not the lobster, the guy runnin' it.
john		Found my phone.
john		Yeah.
ted		Jesus, look at that one. Mister tough guy fish.  "Oh hey, sorry I'm late, guys. Hey, where's everybody goin'? Any of you guys got a tissue? I'm allergic to water."
john		Ted... you gotta move out.
ted		Wh... what?
john		It's... it's gotta happen. Ted sits down on a bench, a little stunned and dazed.
ted		What...what did I do?
john		Ted, my relationship is at a very delicate stage, and, y'know, Lori and I may just need a little space right now. Plus a hooker took a shit in our apartment.
ted		Hey, look, that was a tough night for all of us.
lori		 Oh, god!!
john		Aaaa, what?!
lori		It's so gross!!
john		Don't tell me, I don't wanna hear about it! Did you get it?
lori		No! Oh my god!
john		Tell me when you get it!
lori		AAAA, I got some on my thumb!
john		AAAAA! You can never cook with that hand again! I'm serious, learn to cook other- handed!
lori		Shit!
john		I'll get the next one, okay?
ted		She's makin' you do it, isn't she? JOHN  Yes. But, that doesn't mean we can't hang out. We'll hang out all the time!
ted		What about... thunder buddies for life, Johnny?
john		I know. Fuck. I just don't know what to do here. I know it sucks, but otherwise I'm gonna lose her. And I do love her, Ted.
ted		 I know you do, Johnny.
john		I'll help you get on your feet out there, I promise.
ted		And we'll hang out a lot, right?
john		Fuck, all the time.
ted		 Bring it over here.
john		We've got to get you a job.
ted		I look stupid.
john		No, you don't. You look dapper.
ted		I look like Snuggles' accountant.
john		Look, I know it sucks, but you gotta make some money so you can pay for an apartment.
ted		I don't wanna work at a grocery store.
john		Well, you have no skills.
ted		I told you, I can totally be a lawyer.
john		As I said, you would need a law degree from a law school.
ted		I'm a special case. I'm a fucking talking bear. They might make an exception `cause they're all like, "Aaa! This bear can talk and do stuff! Let's give him a job and maybe he'll give us a few laughs," but then they're surprised at what a stellar performance I'm turnin' in. And then they practically have to give me the Anderson case.
john		Look, you get the job, and we'll celebrate after.
ted		And if I don't get the job will we still smoke that pot?
john		Probably, yes.
ted		 Yeah. Okay, good speech, coach.
frank		So. You think you got what it takes?
ted		Nope.
frank		 48 CONTINUED:
ted		Shit.
donny		I'm sorry to bother you, but my son and I couldn't help but admire your teddy bear.
john		 Oh. Um, thank you.
donny		I'm Donny. And this is my boy, Robert. I have to tell you, I've been fascinated by your story ever since I was a boy. I remember seeing you on the Carson show. You were just wonderful.
ted		Yeah, that was ah... that was a good time.
donny		 I wonder, is there any chance I could purchase the bear from you? For my son?
robert		 I want it.
ted		Hey, I'm not an "it", pal. I'm a "he."
john		 I'm sorry, little guy, but my bear isn't for sale. I've had him since I was about your age. He's very special to me.
robert		Sit up straight when you talk to me.
john		 Ew, why the fuck did he say that?
donny		Don't swear in front of my child. Now. We are very interested in the bear. If you'd like to work out some sort of arrangement, here's my address and phone number.
john		Okay. Will do. Here it goes, in the really important pocket for really important stuff.
ted		Wow. Can you imagine what that little shit would do to me?
john		Oh man, I can totally see him just taking you down to the basement and really slowly de-limbing you while singing some creepy Victorian nursery rhyme.
ted		Fuck you. Why do you have to take it so far? Now it's real. Fuck you again for that. C'mon, let's go find a better place to get stoned.
ted		Yeah, sure is.
john		First night on your own.
ted		Yeah. First night in my beautiful new apartment. They say they're ain't hardly been no murders here.
john		Okay... so... if you need anything...  51 CONTINUED:
ted		I know.
john		Seriously, anything...
ted		I know. I'll be fine, Johnny.
john		 I know you will, buddy.
lori		Hey there.
john		Hey.
lori		Listen... I just wanna say thank you. What you did with Ted was a big step, and I know it wasn't easy, but I just want you to know that I love you for it. And, I think this a new beginning for our relationship.
john		Hey, anything for you. This is all part of the new grown up, adult John Bennett. So, get used to him.
lori		Y'know, I don't have to be at work for another twenty minutes...
john		 Ooh, that's perfect, I'm only gonna need one.
lori		You know what my favorite thing about you is? After four years, you can still surprise me. To step up and change such a big part of your life just to make your girlfriend happier... I dunno, I bet you most guys couldn't do it.
john		Most guys don't have you to motivate `em.
lori		I'm sorry if I was pushy about it...
john		No, you were right! Look, the reason I love you so much is the same reason I guess I take you for granted sometimes. It's `cause you're... inevitable.
lori		 Inevitable. Well, that's... romantic? I think?
john		No, what I mean is, there's just no version of this universe where you and I don't end up together. You're inevitable.
lori		That sounds like something Stephen Hawking would say to his girlfriend. JOHN But do you get what I'm saying?
lori		Yeah, I do. And I feel exactly the same way about you.
ted		Thank you, please come again, we have a lot more groceries.
ted		Who's that over there?
ellen		That's the new bag girl. I don't know her name, but she seems cute.
ted		Yeah. Very cute. You know what I'd like to do to her? Somethin' I call a Dirty Fozzie. Ted waves to the girl. She waves back. He makes a kissy face at her. She giggles and blows him a kiss back. He pantomimes hard, thrusting, standing-up sex. Her eyes widen for a beat, as she stares, then smiles. He grabs an Oh Henry bar, and pantomimes fellatio. The girl laughs hysterically. CLOSE ANGLE on Ted, as white liquid sprays all over his face from one side, then from the other. WIDEN to reveal he's squirting two bottles of pump hand soap on either side of him. The girl laughs and shakes her head "no."
tanya		Hey. How you holding up?
john		Oh, I'm all right. Just... getting used to things, that's all.
tanya		It's gonna be all right. Y'know, I went through something like this with my last boyfriend. JOHN Really?
tanya		Yeah, we were dating for eight months, and I was really in love with him, and then he was deported back to Iran. So, I get it.
john		Oh... yeah. So... I guess we both lost our furry little guy.
tanya		Yeah.
john		Hey, Ted.
john		I could probably swing by after work.
john		I can't just ditch work, man. Look, I'm trying to get my shit together and be an adult here, y'know? For Lori's sake.
ted		John. Five minutes. And then I'll kick you out, I promise. C'mon, I picked up the "Cheers" DVD box set, and supposedly everybody talks shit about each other in the interviews.
john		Really?
ted		Yeah, and apparently George Wendt confesses to a rape.
john		 Sometimes adults get high.
ted		They do, John. Sometimes they do.
john		You'll kick me out in five. TED  John, I have to kick you out. I am extraordinarily busy today, I have so much teddy bear paperwork to get through, it is retarded. Five minutes and you're outta here.
john		What do I tell Thomas?
ted		Just tell him you don't feel well. 56
john		I gotta duck out for a bit. Lori tried to break up a dog fight, and I guess she got hurt pretty bad.
thomas		Oh my god.
john		Yeah, she's-- that's the way she is, she sees trouble, she tries to help out, and I guess one of these dogs clamped his jaws on her forearm, and he wouldn't let go until the fireman showed up and had to stick his finger in his ass.
thomas		Jesus, John.
john		Yeah, she's pretty shook up.
thomas		Oh my god.  Up the dog's ass, right?
john		Yeah, that's how they--
thomas		That's how they get `em to stop biting, sure.
john		Yeah.
thomas		Go go go, take care of it, let me know how she is.
john		Oh gosh, thank you, sir. I owe you one.
thomas		You don't owe me anything, go.
ted danson		Was there cocaine on the set of "Cheers"? Hm. Lemme figure out the best way to answer that. Um...are there naked dicks in gay porn?  Yes, I was quite beloved.
john		You know, he's exactly who you want him to be.
ted		He is. He is. Someone the likes of which we should all aspire to become.
ted danson		Woody Harrelson. Smallest dick I've ever seen on a man.
ted		 Here, try this stuff. I told my guy to step it up, and he gave me this.
john		What is it?
ted		It's called Kennedy's Head. It's actually pretty mellow.
john		That doesn't sound very mellow.
ted		No, it's-- it makes you cerebral. Like Kennedy. Kennedy was smart. That's what it refers to. Decisions under pressure. Cuban missile crisis. Go on, spark it up.
john		Y'know, this place looks great.
ted		Yeah, it's all Ikea. Did the whole apartment for 47 dollars.
john		How are the neighbors?
ted		There's an Asian family next door, but they don't have a gong or nothin', so it's fine.
john		That's lucky.
ted		How's work? JOHN Sucks.
ted		Ah.
john		You?
ted		It's actualy not bad. Met a girl. She's a bagger.
john		No way, that's awesome. We should double date, you, me Lori and, what's her name?
ted		White trash name. Guess.
john		Uh, Mandy?
ted		Nope.
john		Madison?
ted		Nope.
john		Britney, Tiffany, Candice? TED Nope.
john		Don't fuck with me on this. I know this shit.
ted		I know you do, and I am not fucking with you.
john		Okay, Brandi, Heather, Channing, Breanna, Amber, Sabrina, Melody, Dakota, Sierra, Bambi, Crystal, Samantha, Autumn, Ruby, Taylor, Tara, Tamra, Tami, Lauren, Charlene, Chantel, Courtney, Misty, Jenna, Krista, Mindy, Noelle, Shelby, Trina, Reba, Cassandra, Nikki, Kelsey, Shawna, Jolene, Earline, Claudine, Savannah, Kasey, Dolly, Kendra, Carla, Chloe, Devon, Emmylou, Becky?
ted		Nope.
john		Okay, was it any one of those names with a Lynn after it?
ted		Yep.
john		Okay. Brandi-Lynn, Heather-Lynn--
ted		Tami-Lynn.
john		Fuck!
john		Hey, well... it sounds like everything worked out then.
lori		Jesus. TAMI-LYNN Or Jesus, yeah, but whatever.
ted		Hey, isn't this great? The four of us here, having dinner together? Lori, how've you been? Haven't seen you in forever.
lori		Um, I've been good. Not much going on. My company's 20th anniversary is next week, that's something.
john		 Lori's a senior VP at a big PR firm.
lori		It's not that big a deal.
ted		Company's turnin' 20, eh? So you can bang it but you can't get it drunk.
lori		 I'm surprised John didn't tell you already. Seems like you guys have seen each other every day since you moved out.
ted		Well, it's funny, usually the first item on our agenda is "what's goin' on with Lori?" So I'm surprised that one slipped through the cracks.
john		We do, we talk about you all the time.
ted		Right?
john		Oh my god, remember, Ted, last week we were talking about... how... neat all of Lori's shoes are?
ted		That was a lengthy conversation. JOHN And we were saying like, a lot of women look like unsteady horses when they wear high heels, but Lori has a sort of... regal... trot.
ted		A canter.
john		Oh my god yes. You canter.
lori		So, Tami, where are you from? Tell us about yourself. I'm always... fascinated to meet Ted's girlfriends.
ted		No, no, that's not what she's sayin' at all, right Lori?
lori		No, right, I was-- all I was doing was asking. Ted's very... attractive, I'm just always interested in the... type of girl that can snatch him up.
lori		I was just asking a question. TAMI-LYNN You're a friggin' snob! You think you're all cool cause you work at some fancy shit place!
ted		It's okay, Tami.  Nice, Lori. Real nice.
lori		What?! It's not my fault she can't speak English.
ted		Baby! Baby! Baby. Baby. Let's get outta here. We'll go back to my place for a couple vodka and strawberry Quiks. Okay? See ya, John.
lori		What a cunt.
john		 Ooh! I hate that word.
lori		Huh?
john		That word is so sharp. It's like an electric sword, slashing everything in its path.
lori		Well, you didn't exactly stick up for me.
john		I... I'm trying to walk a line here, I want to be fair to you and to him, y'know?
lori		Yeah, well, I think you're being a little more fair to him. JOHN  Come on.
lori		Y'know, your boss called this morning and asked me how my arm was.
john		 Oh?
lori		Yeah. Because of the dog fight I tried to break up.
john		Ohh...
lori		If I had to hazard a guess, I'd say that was some bullshit lie you made up so you could take off work and go to Ted's. Am I right?
john		 I... I made you out to be a hero.
lori		John, Ted moved out so we could give ourselves a chance without him. You're not really giving anything a chance if you're blowing off work to get high with your teddy bear. JOHN It won't happen again, I promise.
lori		 Yes. It will.
john		 W... What?
lori		I'm just... I'm done. This isn't gonna work. We're in two different places. JOHN Lori, look, I know--
lori		You promised me you were gonna grow up and take our life together seriously.
john		Hey, Ted moved out, didn't he? I did that for you-- for us! And it wasn't easy.
lori		Jesus, he might as well still be living with us, John. You spend more time with him than you do with me.
john		Okay, look. I've been getting stoned too much. I know that. I've been bumming around with Ted too much, I know that, too. Give me one more chance, I promise I can fix it. Lori, I love you too much, please give me one more chance.
lori		 I need a man, John. Not a boy with a teddy bear.
john		I know. Done. Man, right here in front of you. Look at these pecs. Man pecs. Look at the hair on my upper lip. Man hair. I just farted. Man fart.
lori		John... this really is your last chance. I can't do this anymore.
john		You won't have to. Trust me. I love you.
lori		 Okay. JOHN Aw, sweetie, I love you so much! You won't be sorry, I swear.
lori		Did you really just fart?
john		Yeah, but I pushed it that way with my hand.
lori		Oh. Wonder where it'll hit first.
frank		What the hell?
frank		There's supposed to be three registers open, for god's sake!
frank		You had sexual intercourse with a coworker in a storeroom filled with produce that we sell to the public.
ted		Yes.
frank		 That took guts. We need guts. I'm promoting you. TED Oh.
ted		Kareem!
donny		Hello, Ted.
ted		Gah! Uh... hi there.
donny		Are you all alone out here?  68 CONTINUED:
ted		Uh... no. No I'm not. I'm... you know, you're never alone when you're with Christ.
donny		You know, Robert and I could give you a very, very good home.
ted		I'm... I'm pretty happy where I am. I just got a shitty new apartment--
donny		I can offer you six thousand dollars in railroad bonds. They were left to me by my father. TED Well, gosh, you know, since I just returned from active duty in the Civil War, that sounds really appealing. Oh wait, no, that was a hundred and fifty years ago, and I don't give a shit.
ted		Yeah, I'm comin', sweetheart.  Yeah, my dance card is quite full, so I'm gonna have to decline.
donny		I really wish you wouldn't...
ted		Yeah, sorry. But, ah... you know, I'd like to thank you for creepin' up my night, and... Jesus be with you. In Christ.
lori		 I'm glad you're here.
john		Yeah, me too. Is it cool if I kick your boss' ass? That won't affect your workplace chemistry, will it?
lori		Play nice. Please. Rex throws open the door.
rex		There she is! I was worried you weren't coming!  Hi kiddo, how ya doin'? Where's your bunny rabbit?
john		He's a bear.
rex		 Got it. "Hey, this house is fucking huge!" I know guys, try not to get lost.
rex		Oh, here come the ladies.
lori		Sure.
rex		...and that's a Wade Boggs autographed bat. Just barely outbid Phil Donahue for that at auction.
john		Wow, cool.
rex		Yeah, cool. And those boxing gloves were worn by Joe Louis in his first fight.  That's me and Tom Skerritt. Oh, and check this out.
john		 No.
rex		That's Lance Armstrong's nut.
john		That's inspiring. You've led a rich life.
rex		I've fucked the shit outta life.  So talk to me, Goose. How are things with you and Lori?
john		Things are great, actually.
rex		That's good, that's good.
john		You know... Lori would hate me for saying this, but... she's told me how you are at the office, and... as one gentleman to another, I just wanna say I really hope you fucking get Lou Gehrig's disease.
rex		Whoa, whoa, okay, look, I think I oughtta just clear the air here a little. I... just want you to know that... I mean, yeah, I'm kind of a "fun-time boss" and whatnot, but... look man, I do that with everybody at the office! I'm just a kook! I have no designs on your girlfriend. We work together, and that's it. I think you're a great guy and she's very lucky.
john		Well... that's good to hear.
rex		Well, that's how it is, so...there we go.
john		Okay.  72 CONTINUED:
rex		Yeah.
john		Hey, Ted.
john		What?!
john		Holy shit! How?
ted		Remember I said, my buddy's cousin is friends with Sam Jones? My buddy's in town with his cousin and who's with `em? Sam Jones!!
john		 73 CONTINUED:
ted		Get over here.
john		Fuck! I can't... I'm with Lori. I'm already on probation here.
john		 I'm coming.
rex		I got your back, my friend. Been there. She'll never know.
john		This is one man to another. I don't really know you, but I'm trusting you. As a man. This is serious. Can I trust you?
rex		Dude. One man to another. I got you on this.
john		 Okay. Thank you.
rex		 I'm gonna make traditional to your girlfriend. And then fuck her in the ass. All right. We have a game plan.
ted		Johnny! Thank Christ you made it!
john		 I got ten minutes, where's Flash Gordon?
ted		Okay, get ready, man.  Hey, Sam! This is the guy I was tellin' you about!
ted		John, this is Sam Jones. Sam, this is my best friend in the whole world, John.
sam		Hi there. Good to meet you.
john		 I... thank you for saving every one of us.
sam		You're welcome. Hey, let's do some shots, huh?
john		With you? Yes. Oh my god, yes.
sam		 Death to Ming! John and Ted look at each other, squealing with delight. Everyone then does their shots.
john		 Not... recently, no.
sam		You fellas better come with me.
ted		Wow.
sam		Let's party like the `80's huh?
ted		 Show us how, Flash.
sam		It's easy. We just gotta bang a lotta girls named Stephanie.
john		Holy shit.  All these people need to be talked to.
ted		Look Johnny, if we're ever gonna get serious about openin' a restaurant we gotta start plannin' it now.
john		Italian.
ted		Italian, yes.
john		What's the special on Tuesdays?
ted		Eggplant parm. JOHN Chopped salad half price.
ted		And it's a non-restricted place.
john		Yeah--wait, whaddaya mean?
ted		Anybody can come.
john		Of course.
ted		Mormons are welcome.
john		Well yeah--why wouldn't they be?
ted		Exactly, that's what I'm saying.
john		But why even bring that up--
ted		You don't bring it up. You just let `em in.
john		Yeah, but why mention it?
ted		No one will.
john		So why are we talking about it?
ted		You're talkin' about it, I'm just sayin' let `em in.
john		Yes, let `em in.
ted		Exactly.
john		Right.
ted		Good.
john		Okay.
ted		No Catholics, though.
ted		No see, I can do this.
ted		My teddy bear biology gives me superhuman reflexes.
ted		Well, you never shoulda trusted me, I'm on drugs!
john		 Hey Johnny, I just had a great idea-- let's go get drunk and puke on cars from the overpass!
ted		Oh god, that was a fun day.
john		 Johnny, you gotta get over here man, I just tried this DMT all the kids are talkin' about, and I'm in trouble! I think I got sucked inside my chair!
ted		I do not sound that much like Peter Griffin.
ted		See? There. Proof. Garfield's eyes look like a pair of tits.
ted		Okay, Johnny, c'mon up here and do this with me! JOHN No no.
ted		Come on!
john		No, I don't sing in front of people!
ted		YOU AND ME, WE COME FROM DIFFERENT WORLDS. YOU LIKE TO LAUGH AT ME WHEN I LOOK AT OTHER GIRLS. SOMETIMES YOU'RE CRAZY AND YOU WONDER WHY I'M SUCH A BABY `CAUSE DOLPHINS MAKE CRY. WELL THERE'S NOTHING I CAN DO I'VE BEEN LOOKING FOR A GIRL LIKE YOU. YOU LOOK AT ME YOU'VE GOT NOTHING LEFT TO SAY. I'LL ONLY POUT AT YOU UNTIL I GET MY WAY. I WON'T DANCE. YOU WON'T SING. I JUST WANT TO LOVE YOU BUT YOU WANT TO WEAR MY RING. WELL THERE'S NOTHING I CAN DO. I ONLY WANNA BE WITH YOU. YOU CAN CALL ME YOUR FOOL, I ONLY WANNA BE WITH YOU.
ted		See there's this one part of the wall that's really soft, you could punch through it wicked easy.
asian man		What the hell you problem!! You break my wall! You break my wall I break you wall!
john		AAA! AAA!! Break his arm, Flash! Cut his arm off!!
asian man		You break my wall! This my home long time! You break my wall! You bastard men! JOHN/TED Dude, we're sorry! We're sorry!
asian man		You bastard men! I try to make duck dinner, now plaster everywhere!
ted		Chill out okay? We'll pay for it! Let's talk this out okay? What's your name? I'm John!
asian man		 My name Wan Ming.
flash		 82 CONTINUED:
asian man		You pay many dollar for wall! This bullshit! This all bullshit!
sam		DEATH TO MING!!!
asian man		You crazy! You crazy man!
ted		AAA! AAAA! OW!! The Asian man calls to the duck from the door.
asian man		Come on, James Franco!
john		Guy?
guy		Hey. What's goin' on. This is Jared. He's the guy who beat me up. We're in love.
john		What??
guy		Yeah. Turns out I'm gay or whatever. Had no idea. C'mon Jared, let's get a drink.
sam		How you doin' there, ace? You comin' down?
john		Yeah. Yeah, I don't feel good.
sam		Give it a couple hours, you'll be golden, Pony Boy. Want a Xanax?
john		Holy shit. Holy shit, oh my god!
sam		What?
john		I gotta-- I gotta go! Shit!
john		Lori... I...
john		Lori! Lori wait!
lori		I want you out of the apartment... tonight. Gimme my car keys.
john		Can I please just explain--
lori		No.
john		I was gonna--
lori		I have given up a big chunk of my life for you.
john		I was gonna stop in for like five minutes, and then Flash Gordon--
lori		Just give me my keys, John!
john		Lori... please. I love you.
ted		Johnny, come on upstairs. Tami-Lynn's gonna make some RC Cola from scratch.
john		Fuck you! I don't want to talk to you!
ted		What?
john		Do you know what just happened? Do you have any clue? My life just ended.
ted		Oh come on, she'll go home, watch Bridget Jones' Somethin' Asshole, cry a little bit, she'll be fine, you'll talk to her tomorrow.
john		 Are you even listening to me?! Do you give any shred of a shit?!
ted		Well... `course I do, Johnny. Thunder buddies for life.
john		Jesus, Lori was right. I should have stopped hanging out with you a long time ago. I'm never gonna have a life with you around. I'm 35 years old and I'm going nowhere. All I do is smoke pot and watch movies with a teddy fucking bear. And because of that, I just lost the love of my life.
ted		Johnny, I'm... I'm sorry.
john		I just... I gotta be on my own, Ted. I can't see you anymore.
ted		Johnny, wait! Hey, listen!
rex		So, word through the grapevine is you are newly solo. I have tickets to see Norah Jones at the Hatch Shell tonight, and I would love it if you'd go with me.
lori		You're asking me out the day after I broke up with someone.
rex		Look, I'm gonna cut the shit here. LORI Okay.
rex		This is the first time you've been single in all the years you've worked here. Just go out with me one time. And if you're miserable and you hate it, I promise I will never even hint at the subject again. Please.
lori		Rex, I don't think it's smart.
rex		Look, I'm an asshole. I know that. It worked for me in high school, and it's been like a reflex ever since.  Lori, the worst that can happen is you have a fun, casual date with a guy who only wants a chance to prove to you that he can be something more than a jerk. Besides, you're a huge catch and it's about time somebody treated you that way.
lori		Fine... I guess it beats crying myself to sleep every night.
rex		Great. Pick you up at seven?
john		Who is it?
ted		Johnny, it's me.
john		Go away.
ted		Johnny, open the door, please. I wanna talk.
john		JESUS--
ted		Sorry. Look, Johnny, I know you're pissed, but just listen to me for five seconds. I saw Lori out on a date with Rex.
john		What?
ted		I'm serious, John, I went over to your house to talk to Lori to try and take some of the heat off you, and I saw Rex picking her up. They were going to the Hatch Shell.
john		You're un-fucking-believable, you know that? How stupid do you think I am? First of all, Lori would never go out with Rex, and second of all, if you think that by making shit like that up you're gonna make me choose some kind of loyalty to you over her--
ted		Johnny, it's the truth. I'm tellin' ya--
john		Get outta here.
ted		 You know, you're actin' like a cock, you know that? JOHN What? I'm acting like a cock?
ted		Yes. You are actin' like a giant, V- shaped-funny-lookin'-guy-in-a-porno cock.
john		Huh?
ted		`Member that porno we saw with the guy with the V-shaped cock--forget it. What I'm sayin' is that you're blamin' me for somethin' you did to yourself.
john		Oh, and you can?
ted		I don't have to, I'm a fuckin' teddy bear! Y'know somethin', I didn't tie you up and drag you to that party. I wanted you to come because you're supposedly my best friend.
john		Oh, yeah? Is that why you've manipulated me for years to stay eternally eight years old at the expense of the rest of my life?
ted		Whoa whoa, it's not my fault you didn't care enough about your relationship.
john		You can't stand there and tell me you haven't always seen Lori as a threat to our friendship! It works out so much better for you when you and I are getting fucked up on the couch at 9 am, doesn't it?
ted		Wow. Listen to yourself. What am I, Emperor Ming here, controllin' your mind? That's your choice, John! And you know, by blamin' me, you just make yourself look like a pussy.
john		 You know... sometimes I think back to that Christmas morning when I was eight years old... and I wish I'd just gotten a Teddy Ruxpin.
ted		 Say that one more time.
john		Teddy... Rux-fucking-pin.
ted		C'mon, motherfucker!
john		My dick is in the TV.
john		So am I, man.
ted		I love you.
john		I love you, too.
ted		Listen... you gotta let me help you make things right with you and Lori. JOHN There is no putting things right. She hates me.
ted		No, John, we can get her back. Look, remember when you were ten, and you hit that squirrel with your BB gun, and then when we saw it fall from the tree we both starting crying? Remember? And then we ran up to it and tried to give it CPR? And it came back to life? John, we could do that again.
john		Ted, we crushed its rib cage and blew out its lungs trying to give it CPR. It died.
ted		 We can get Lori back.
rex		God, she's so brave. YOUR MUSIC IS SO FUCKING BRAVE!! Norah finishes the song.
norah		Thanks so much! We're gonna take a short break, but we'll be back in a few!
norah		 Teddy!! How you doin', you fuzzy little asshole?
ted		Well, I'm not a hot half-Muslim chick who sold 37 million records, but I'm hangin' in there.
norah		Well, half-Indian, but thanks.
ted		Eh, ooga booga, whatever. Hey, I want you to meet a good pal of mine. Hey Johnny, come on in!
john		 Hi. Hi, Norah Jones.
norah		 Ha. Whoa, relax there, sweaty. You ready to bring down the house?
john		Yes ma'am. Thank you for the opportunity, Ms.-- Ma'am Jones.
ted		Jesus, you look fantastic.
norah		Well, you're probably not used to seeing me fully clothed.
ted		Me and Norah met in 2002 at a party at Belinda Carlisle's house and we had awkward, fuzzy sex in the coatroom.
norah		Actually, you weren't so bad for a guy with no penis. TED I have written so many letters to Hasbro about that.
norah		Okay, I'm gonna give my chops a rest here and invite a friend of mine up to the stage. He's gonna sing a song to a very special lady in the audience who he loves very much. Let's give a big hand to John Bennett!
lori		Oh my god.
john		Uh, hi. Um... This is for Lori Collins. Because I love her. This song always reminds me of the most important night of my life. The night we met. It's the theme song from the movie "Octopussy."
rex		 Hey, come on guys!
crowd		Get off the stage! / Boooo! / You suck! / We wanna hear Norah! / Come on!
ted		Ah, god.
john		SO HOLD ON TIGHT / LET THE FLIGHT BEGIN...  98 CONTINUED:
crazy guy		You're an asshole!
norah		Jesus.
rex		That was insane. Did you see the way that guy's body hit the ground? It was like a rag doll! LORI Yeah, I'd rather just not talk about it.
rex		You want to go get a drink after this? I feel like I could use one after seeing a guy almost die.
lori		Nope, I think I'd rather you just take me home.
rex		One drink, come on.
lori		Nope, not really feeling up to it.
rex		Alright, alright, I get it. I don't blame you. When you think about it, it was actually really unfair of him to embarrass you like that.
lori		Just to be clear, I am not embarrassed. Listen, John and I may have our problems but at least he tried. You know what? I don't feel like talking to you about this.
rex		Where you going? LORI Taking a cab. I'm going home.
rex		Finally.
lori		 Ted? What're you doing here? What do you want?
ted		I need to talk to you.
lori		Look, if you're here to fight John's battle for hi--
ted		Lori, do me a favor and let me talk first, and then you can say whatever you want. There's a beat. She reluctantly considers.
ted		Look, John loves you very much. More than anything in the world. And he's fallin' to fuckin' pieces without you. He knows he screwed up big time, but you gotta believe me that is wasn't all his fault. If you'll just give him one more chance to be with you--
lori		Ted... that's a very nice offer, but I don't want you to do that. This is about John and me and our problems. And I don't think it can be fixed.
ted		Because of me! Look, you want him to be a man. And I'm the one who's keepin' that from happening. As long as he's got his teddy bear, he's still a boy. And I care about him as much as you do. But I'm willing to give up the boy so you can have the man.  101 CONTINUED:
lori		 I'll talk to him.
ted		Thank you. He's waitin' for me down at Charley's. So... maybe you could, y'know... go down instead of me? LORI What... now?
ted		Please. You'll regret it for the rest of your life if you don't.
lori		Alright, alright, I'll go.
ted		 Hey, you mind if I stay and watch the Sox?
donny		Hi, Ted.
ted		Fuck.
lori		You can thank Ted.
john		Good, good. I've, uh... made myself a nice little home at the Midtown Hotel up the street. I'd show you around, but it's kinda classy. They require an undershirt and at least one visible cold sore for all customers.
lori		 Well. Shall I sit?
john		Uh, yeah.
lori		Yeah. Work's fine.
john		How's Rex?
lori		There is no Rex.
john		Oh. Good.  Well... I guess we can't make small talk all day, so I'll say what I wanna say. I could sit here and tell you I'm sorry, it was a huge misunderstanding, and I'm ready to change. But I don't think you wanna hear any of that crap. I'm not gonna try and get you to take me back. Why would you? I've been a really shitty boyfriend for the last four years. I don't deserve you. I didn't take our relationship seriously, even though I love you more than life itself. All I want is... just to end on good terms. Because I owe that to you. I want you to be happy... and for us to be friends.
lori		 Wow. Thank you. I appreciate that.
john		Well. That's pretty much it.
donny		Yes, as you can see, you've been part of our family for quite some time. Welcome home.
ted		Heh, you know what's hilarious, I got tons of pictures of you guys at my house.
robert		Daddy, is he all mine?
donny		He's all yours, my little winner. You've arrived at a lucky time, Ted. It's almost Robert's play hour.
ted		I'm guessin' you guys don't have a PS3. I'm guessin' you're more of a wooden horse with a wig kinda family.
ted		Huh. Wig horse.
donny		Now, remember, Ted, you belong to Robert now. So you will do as he says.
ted		Y'know, you think you're just gonna get away with a kidnapping? Nice fuckin' example you're settin' for your kid.
donny		 LANGUAGE!!!
ted		Maybe "no" to a Snickers bar every once in awhile wouldn't hurt.
robert		Me and Ted are gonna be best friends, daddy.
donny		Yes. You are. Happy play time. Donny shuts the door. Robert stares at Ted.
ted		Jesus fucking Christ!
robert		No! Daddy said no bad words!
ted		Yeah well, fuck your dad.
robert		I said a bad word one time, and daddy punished me for it.
ted		That's a great story, I felt like I was there.
robert		Daddy gave me an ouch. Now I have to give you an ouch.
ted		Okay... okay, kid. You win. We'll do it your way. You wanna play a game or somethin'? It's play time, let's play a game.
robert		Yeah, I wanna play a game!
ted		Good, good, hey, how `bout we play a little game of hide and seek?
robert		I love hide and seek! I'll hide!
ted		Well, now, Robert, your dad likes you to show good manners, right?
robert		Yes.
ted		Well, a well-mannered kid lets his guest hide first, don't ya think?
robert		Okay, you hide first.
ted		Great. Fantastic. Okay, now you count to a hundred and then try to find me, okay?  107 CONTINUED:
robert		Do I need to wash my hands before this game?
ted		You... well-- no, you-- god, that's a weird fuckin' question, no, just start countin'.
robert		One... two... three...
donny		 Robert? How's play time?
robert		Good, daddy! 108
donny		Ted, are you making friends with Robert?
donny		 Okay. Ted breathes a sigh of relief, and walks the other way down the hall. He passes a door. He opens it, but it's just a storage closet. He's about to shut it, but notices a stapler amidst the odds and ends. He hastily begins stapling his ear back on.
lori		Hey.
john		Hey.
lori		Kinda late to be walkin' home by yourself.
john		Oh, I'll be okay. If I get raped, it'll be my fault with what I'm wearing.
lori		Listen, John... there's something I wanna say to you, too.
john		Go ahead.
lori		John, I just want you to know that... I mean, I hope you don't think that--
john		Whoever this is, it's not a good time.
ted		John! It's me! Can you hear me?
john		Ted?
ted		No, John! Don't hang up, I'm in trouble!
john		What do you mean, what kinda trouble?
ted		They got me! That freaky guy and his freaky fat kid!
john		What?
ted		I'm in their house, John! You gotta call the police, they won't let me outta here! They tore my ear off!
john		Wait, slow down! Where are you?
ted		Uh... I'm not sure, it's uh--
donny		 You're not a very polite guest.
ted		Shit.
john		 Ted? Ted? Hello? Ted!
lori		What's the matter, is he all right?
john		I don't know.
lori		Where is he?
john		I don't know, but he's in trouble.  111 CONTINUED:
lori		Why? What happened? Can you call him back?
john		No, it's blocked-- wait a second.
donny		You've put us in a pickle here, haven't you? We have to go now.
ted		Yeah, good idea.
robert		Found you.
ted		AAAAAA!
john		It's this creepy fucked-up guy who wants Ted for his creepy fucked-up son. They got him somehow. LORI Which way?
john		Shoot up 99!
john		 ...Hello?
donny		Robert, seat belt.
john		 Whoa whoa, stop stop stop!
ted		Johnny!
john		Come on, we're losing him!
john		Get closer!
lori		I'm trying!
ted		 Aaaaa! Shit!!
robert		No! You're being bad!
ted		Back off, Susan Boyle.
john		Easy...
lori		I know.
john		EASY--
lori		I know!
ted		Johnny! Total T.J. Hooker, right?
john		Yes! Fuckin' A right!
ted		God dammit!
lori		Shit!
lori		Oh my god.
john		Sorry, someone had to go Joan Crawford on that kid.  Come on!
lori		 Look!
john		Oh Jesus...  Stay here.
lori		Wait, John! What are you--
john		STAY THERE!!
john		Ted!
lori		Oh my God...
ted		 Johnny...
john		Lori, get the stuffing! Get it all!
ted		Johnny...
john		You're gonna be okay, buddy. you understand? You're gonna be fine.
ted		 Jesus, I look like the robot from "Aliens".
john		No, look at me, buddy. I promise, you're gonna be okay.
ted		I... I don't think so. I'm... I'm in trouble. I need... I need to tell you something.
john		What is it?
ted		Don't... don't ever lose her again. She's the most important... most important part of your life.  Even more than me. She's your thunder buddy now. She's--
lori		John... I don't know if this is gonna--
john		Just try. Please. Just try.
lori		John... I'm sorry. You did everything you could. I'm... I'm just so sorry.
john		Ted!
ted		 I'm alive, Johnny!
john		Oh my god!
ted		 I'm alive! Your magical wish worked!
john		You're back!
ted		 Yeah! I mean, when you sewed me up, you put some of the stuffing in the wrong places, so I'm a little fucked up. Will you take care of me forever and ever?
john		You asshole!
lori		Welcome back, Ted.
john		It... it was you. You did it.  It was your wish.
teddy		 Son of a bitch...You wished for my life back.
lori		No. I wished for my life back. Because I love you both.
ted		You were pretty great out there at Fenway, Johnny.
lori		Yeah, that's my big brave man.
john		Oh my god, do you know how awesome it was punching a kid? I felt so powerful! I mean if that's what it's like to hit a woman, watch out, I liked it.
lori		 I love you.
john		I love you, too.  And, I want you to know that... I'm probably never gonna be any more than a guy who rents cars, but... I don't care. You're the only thing that matters in my life.
john		You and Ted.
john		And after last night, I... I don't ever want to lose anyone who matters to me ever again. I'm not gonna wait any longer for my life to start. Lori... will you marry me?
lori		 That's all I ever wanted.
sam jones		I now pronounce you man and wife. You may kiss the bride.
ted		Y'know Sam, there's only one way to end a perfect day.
sam jones		What's that?
ted		On three.
sam jones		What on three?
ted		Flash jump.
sam jones		 Right.
****Dialogues from script :Terminator.txt****

leader		 Hey, hey...what's wrong with this picture?
leader		Nice night for a walk, eh?
terminator		 Nice night for a walk.
second punk		Washday tomorrow, huh?  Nothing clean, right?
terminator		Nothing clean.  Right.
leader		This guy's a couple bricks short.
terminator		Your clothes.  Give them to me.
terminator		 Now.
second punk		 Fuck you, asshole.
derelict		Say, buddy...did you see a real bright light?
first cop		Hold it, right there!
reese		What day is it?  The date...
cop		Thursday...uh...May twelfth.
reese		 What year?
sarah		 Watch this for me, big buns.
sarah		Yes, Chuck?
breen		Come to the office, please.
sarah		Mission control to Chuck, come in...
breen		 You're late.
sarah		Aren't I worth waiting for?
breen		Not really.  Do you think you can get here on time if I put you on the floor as a waitress?
sarah		 I don't know.  I kinda had my heart set on being a cashier the rest of my life.
breen		The pay's the same but you'll make more in tips.
sarah		Thanks, Chuck.  I need the
breen		Mmm.  Same schedule's okay.
sarah		Alright!
breen		 Can you handle it?
sarah		It's not brain surgery, Chuck.
breen		Here you go.  You're a Bob's Girl now.  Nancy will check you out.
sarah		I won't let the fat kid down.
sarah		Hi, I'm Sarah and I'll be you waitress.  I'm so wholesome, I could puke.
clerk		Anything else?
terminator		A phased plasma pulse-laser in the forty watt range...
clerk		 Just what you see, pal.
terminator		The Uzi 9 millimeter.
clerk		 You know your weapons, buddy.
clerk		 Any one of them's ideal for home defense. Which'll it be?
terminator		All.
clerk		Maybe I'll close early. Cash or charge?
clerk		Sorry, I can't sell the ammo with the guns.  You'll have to---Hey!
clerk		 You can't to that...
terminator		 Wrong.
man		 Hey, man...
customer		Honey, can I get that coffee now?
sarah		Yes sir, just a second.
sarah		Who gets the Burly Burger?
customer two		I ordered Barbecue Beef.
customer three		Does mine come with fires?
customer four		He's got the Barbecue Beef, I've got a Chili-Beef Deluxe.
sarah		Okay, who gets the Burly Beef?
sarah		 Oh, sorry.  That's not real leather, is it?
nancy		Look at it this way: in a hundred years, who's gonna care?
terminator		Sarah Connor?
woman		No, she's upstairs.  Who shall I say is--
woman		What do you think you're-- My God!
woman		 Oh my God...Sarah!
reese		Gimme a falafel with, uh, yogurt and Baco-bits.
counterman		That'll be one-sixty.
counterman		 Hey!  Son-of-a-bitch.
sarah		I haven't seen you in here lately, Mr. Miller.
sarah		You must have a girlfriend.
sarah		Aha!  Is she young?
sarah		 What's it to ya?
sarah		I'm on break, Chuck.  Carla's got my station.
nancy		 Hurry up.  It's about you... I mean sort of...Come on!
waitress		Hey, Sarah.  This is weird.
tv anchorwoman		...and a police spokesman at the scene refused to speculate on a motive for the execution- style slaying of the Encino housewife.  He did however say that an accurate description of the suspect has been compiled from several witnesses.  Once again, Sarah Connor, thirty-five, mother of two, brutally shot to death in her home this afternoon.
nancy		You're dead, honey.
marco		Hi. I've seen you around. You're cute.  Cute I remember.
sarah		I'm Sarah.  Ginger's roommate.
marco		Yeah, right.  I'm Marco.
ginger		...and three aaand four!  And that's it ladies!  Now, didn't that feel good?
ginger		Let's think positive or next time I'll play the FM version.
sarah		...yeah, really?  Say some- thing in Italian.
ginger		You're wasting your time, kiddo. Let's go.
sarah		 I don't believe you did that.
sarah		 I had him hooked.  He was just about to ask me out. I could tell.
ginger		That guy's a jerk.  I did you a favor.
sarah		I'll do the same for you sometime.
ginger		 You think somebody's gonna do this for you?  Look at those shriveled bi's.  And you haven't worked lat's or ab's since Wednesday.
matt		 Hello, sweetheart.  Had a rough day?
ginger		 Come here, wimp.
sarah		Hi, Matt.
matt		 Heeey!  It's my favorite Sarah.  Hi, babe.
ginger		Alright, warm-ups are over. Back to work, Bunky.
matt		'Bye beautiful.  You too, Ginger.
weightlifter		Bunky?
boy		Hey, mister...?
sister		 See, I told you he wasn't dead.  You owe me Baskin Robbins.
boy		 Come on.  Just come on.
sarah		 Hello?
sarah		Ginger!  It's Matt.
sarah		 Who is this?
sarah		Sure, Bunky.
ginger		Hello?
sarah		What do you think?
ginger		 Great.
sarah		How about this?
ginger		Great.
sarah		You're a big help.
ginger		 Alright, the beige one.
sarah		I hate the beige one.
ginger		 Don't wear the beige one.
sarah		 You think the beige?
vukovich		Give me the short version.
traxler		Six shots at less than ten feet.  Weapon was a large caliber--
vukovich		No shit.
traxler		Come on. man.  Don't track it all over.  It's un- professional.
traxler		 Okay, let's see...Got a pos- itive on her.  She's Sarah Connor, works as a legal--
vukovich		 That can't be right.  That's the name of the one Valley Division mopped up this after- noon.
traxler		Here's her driver's license.
vukovich		 You gotta be kidding me.  The new guys'll be short-stroking it over this one.  A one-day pattern killer.
traxler		I hate the weird ones.
ginger		 Better than mortal man deserves.
sarah		 Ginger, have you seen Pugsley?
ginger		Not lately.  Did you check messages?
sarah		 I thought you did.
sarah		 Come here young man.  Mind your mother.
ginger		 Totally nauseating.
ginger		That bum.  So what if he has a Porsche, he can't treat you like that...it's Friday night for crissakes.
ginger		I'll break his kneecaps.
sarah		You still love me, don't you, Pugsley?
sarah		 I'm going to a movie, kiddo. See ya'.  You and Matt have a good time.
ginger		 We will, kiddo.
reporter		...Lieutenant, are you aware that these two killings occurred in the same order as their listings in the phone book?
vukovich		No comment.
traxler		That stuff's two hours cold.
vukovich		 I know.
traxler		 I put a cigarette out in it.
vukovich		Did you reach the next girl yet?
traxler		No.  Keep getting an answer- ing machine.
vukovich		Send a unit.
traxler		I already did.  No answer at the door and the apartment manager's out.  I'm keeping them there.
vukovich		Call her.
traxler		I just called.
vukovich		Call her again.
vukovich		 Got a cigarette?
ginger's voice		 Ha ha ha, fooled you. You're talking to a machine, but don't by shy, it's okay.  Machines need love too, so talk to it and Ginger, that's me, or Sarah will get back to you.  Wait for the beep.
traxler		Same shit.
vukovich		I can hear it now, it's gonna be the goddamned 'Phone Book Killer'.
traxler		I hate the press cases. Especially the weird press cases.  Where you going?
vukovich		 To make a statement. I'm gonna give them the name.  Maybe the jackals can help us out for once.
vukovich		 How do I look?
traxler		Like shit, boss.
customer		Hey, can we change this and catch the ball scores.
bartender		 Sure.
sarah		 Leave it where it is!
ginger		Shoo.  Go on.  I'll make a belt out of you.
matt		Whoah!
ginger's voice		 Ha ha ha, fooled you.  You're talking to a machine...
ginger's voice		 ...but don't be shy, it's okay. Machines need love too...
ginger's voice		 ...so talk to it and Ginger, that's me, or Sarah will get back to you. Wait for the beep.
sarah's voice		 Ginger, this is Sarah...
sarah's voice		 ...I'm in this sleazy bar called Stoker's on Pico but I'm too scared to leave.  I'm really scared, kiddo...
sarah		 ...I think somebody's after me and I sure hope you play this soon 'cause I need you and Matt to come pick me up.  The police keep transferring me around, but I'm going to try them again.
sarah		 The number here is 468-9175. Call me, kiddo.  I need you. It's Stoker's on Pico. Bye.
sarah		 ...look, Lieutenant...uh, Vukovich, don't put me on hold and don't transfer me to another department...
vukovich		 Yeah, I know it...on Pico. Are you alright?
sarah		 Yes, but I don't want to leave.  I think this guy's following me.
vukovich		 Alright, Ms. Connor.  Listen carefully.  You're in a public place, you'll be safe 'til we get there.  Stay visible. Don't go outside or in the restroom.  I'll be there in a few minutes.
vukovich		Let's roll.
vukovich		Let's see how this guy likes playing hard-ball.
waitress		Anything else?
sarah		 Lieutenant Vukovich?
reese		Come with me if you want to live.
sarah		 Oh my God...
vukovich		 What the fuck is going on?
vukovich		 Cover the alley in back.
vukovich		 Go!  Go!  He's got her.
traxler		 Suspect westbound on Olympic.  Grey sedan.  Has hostage, repeat...
reese		 Hold on.
reese		Are you injured?  Are you shot?
reese		 Do exactly what I say. Exactly.  Don't move un- less I say.  Don't make a sound unless I say.  Do you understand?
reese		 Do you understand?
sarah		 Yes.  Don't hurt me.
reese		I'm here to help you.  Reese,
reese		 Assigned to protect you. You've been targetted for termination.
cop		...I don't know, it looks like it might spread to this furniture warehouse across the alley, the paint on the wall's starting to blister up...
cop		 Better get another truck round to this side.
sarah		 This is a mistake.  I haven't done anything.
reese		No. But you will.  It's very important that you live.
sarah		I can't believe this is happen- ing.  How could than man get up after you...
reese		Not a man.  A Terminator. Cyber Dynamics Model 101.  CUT TO:
terminator		This is One-Four-Three.  West- bound on Olympic, approaching Overland.
sarah		A machine?  You mean, like a robot?
reese		Not a robot.  Cyborg. Cybernetic Organism.
sarah		But...he was bleeding.
reese		Just a second.  Keep your head down.
reese		Good cover.  Alright.  Listen. The Terminator's an infil- tration unit.  Part man, part machine.  Underneath, it's a hyperalloy combat chassis, mircoprocessor-controlled, fully  armored. Very tough...
reese		 But outside, it's living human tissue.  Flesh, skin, hair...blood.  Grown for the cyborgs.
sarah		Look, Reese, I know you want to help, but...
reese		 Pay attention.  The 600 series had rubber skin. We spotted them easy.  But these are new.  They look human.  Sweat, bad breath, everything.  Very hard to spot.  I had to wait 'til he moved on you before I could zero him.
sarah		Hey, I'm not stupid, y'know. They can't build anything like that yet.
reese		No.  Not yet.  Not for about forty years.
sarah		So, it's from the future, is that right?
reese		One possible future.  Four your point of view.  I don't know the tech stuff.
sarah		And you're from the future too?
reese		Right.
sarah		 Right...
reese		 Cyborgs don't feel pain.  I do.  Don't...do that...again.
sarah		 Just let me go.
reese		 Listen.  Understand.  That Terminator is out there.  It can't be reasoned with, it can't be bargained with...it doesn't feel pity of remorse or fear... and it absolutely will not stop. Ever.  Until you are dead.
sarah		 Can you stop it?
reese		Maybe.  With these weapons... I don't know.
sarah		Reese...why me?  Why does it want me?
reese		There's so much...
sarah		Tell me.  Just start at the beginning.
reese		There was a war.  A few years from now.  Nuclear war.  The whole thing.  All this--
reese		 It was the machines.
sarah		I don't understand...
reese		Defense network computer. New. Powerful.  Hooked into everything. Trusted to run it all.  They say it got smart...a new order of intelli- gence.  Then it saw all people as a threat, not just the ones on the other side.  Decided out fate in a microsecond...extermination.
reese		 Didn't see the war.  I was born after, in the ruins.  Grew up there.  Starving.  Hiding from the H-K's.
sarah		The what?
reese		Hunter Killers.  Patrol machines. Build in automated factories. Most of us were rounded up, put in camps...for orderly disposal.
reese		 Some of us were kept alive... to work.  Loading bodies.  The disposal units ran night and day. We were that close to going out forever...
reese		 His name is Connor.  John Connor... your son, Sarah.  Your unborn son.
reese		 Steer!
sarah		 Reese!
vukovich		Here, drink some of this...
sarah		 Lieutenant, are you sure it's them?  Maybe I should see the ...bodies.
vukovich		They've already been identi- fied.  There's no doubt.
sarah		 Of, God...Ginger...kiddo, I'm so sorry.
vukovich		 Sarah, this is Dr. Silber- man.  I'd like you to tell him everything Reese said to you.  Do you feel up to it?
sarah		 You're a doctor?
silberman		A criminal psychologist.
sarah		Is Reese crazy?
silberman		That's what we're going to find out.
silberman		So.  You're a soldier. Fighting for whom?
reese		With the One Thirty Second under Perry, from '21 to '27--
silberman		 The year 2027?
reese		 That's right.
traxler		 This is fucking great.
reese		Then I was assigned Recon/ Security, last two years, under John Connor.
silberman		And who was the enemy?
reese		SKYNET.  A computer defense system built for SAC-NORAD by Cyber Dynamics.  A modified Series
silberman		 I see.  And this...computer, thinks it can win by killing the mother of its enemy, kill- ing him, in effect, before he is even conceived?  A sort of retroactive abortion?
reese		Yes.
traxler		 He had this guy in here last week who set his Afghan on fire. Screwed it first, then set it on--
vukovich		 Shut up.
reese		...it had no choice. The defensive grid was smashed. We'd taken the mainframes... We'd won.  Taking out Connor then would make no difference.  Skynet had to wipe out his entire exist- ence.  We captured the lab complex.  Found the...what- ever it was called...the time-displacement equipment. The Terminator had already gone through.  They sent two of us to intercept, then zeroed the whole place. Sumner didn't make it.
silberman		Then how are you supposed to get back?
reese		Can't.  Nobody goes home. Nobody else comes through. It's just him and me.
reese		 ...It's just him and me.
silberman		 Why didn't you bring any weapons?  Something more advanced.  Don't you have ray guns?
silberman		 Show me a piece of future technology.
reese		 You go naked.  Something about the field generated by a living organism.  Nothing dead will go.
silberman		 Why?
reese		 I didn't build the fucking thing.
silberman		 cyborg...if it's metal...
reese		 Surrounded by living tissue.
silberman		 Of course.
silberman		 This is great stuff.  I could make a career out of this guy. You see how clever this part is...how it doesn't require a shred of proof.  Most paranoid delusions are intricate...but this is brilliant.
silberman		 Why were the other two women killed?
reese		 Most official records were lost in the war.  The computer knew almost nothing about Connor's mother.  Her name. Where she lived, just the city. No scanner pictures.  The Terminator was just being systematic.
reese		 You've heard enough.  Decide. Are you going to release me?
silberman		 I'm afraid that's not up to me.
reese		 Then why am I talking to you? Get out.
silberman		 I can help you...
reese		Who is in authority here?
reese		 You still don't get it. He'll find her.  That's what he does.  All he does...
reese		 You can't stop him. He'll wade through you...
reese		 ...reach down her throat, and pull her fucking heart out...
silberman		 Sorry.
sarah		 So Reese is crazy.
silberman		In technical terminology, he's a loon.
sarah		But...
vukovich		Sarah, this is body armor. Out TAC guys wear it.  It'll stop a 12 gauge round.  This other individual must've had one under his coat.
sarah		But what about him punching through the windshield?
traxler		 Probably on PCP, broke every bone in his hand and won't feel it for hours.  There was this guy once that...
vukovich		Why don't you just stretch out here and get some sleep.  It'll take your mom a good hour to get here from Redlands.
sarah		I can't sleep.
vukovich		Go ahead.  You're safe.  There're thirty cops in this building.
sarah		Okay.
traxler		What?  Ed, come on...the guy's a wacko.
vukovich		 He'd better be.
terminator		I'm a friend of Sarah Connor. I was told she is here.  Can I see her, please?
sergeant		You can't see here.  She's making a statement.
terminator		Where is she?
sergeant		 Look.  It's gonna be a while. You wanna wait.  There's a bench.
terminator		I'll come back.
vukovich		Stay here.
traxler		 Watch him.
traxler		Ed!  Ed...?
vukovich		 You just keep her alive.  Do what you have to.
reese		Let's get off the road.
reese		You cold?
sarah		Freezing.
reese		Come here.
sarah		Reese...you got a first name?
reese		Kyle.
sarah		Kyle, what's it like when you go through time?
reese		White light.  Pain.  Like being ripped inside out... slowly.  Like being born, maybe.
sarah		You're wet.  Oh my god.
reese		I caught one, back there.
sarah		 Caught one?  You mean you got shot?
reese		It's not bad.
sarah		We gotta get you to a doctor.
reese		It's okay.  Forget it.
sarah		Forget it?  Are you crazy? Let me see it.
sarah		 Jeez.  You idiot.  Take this off.
reese		 See.  Missed everything. Passed through the meat.
sarah		This is gonna make me puke. Talk about something.
reese		What?
sarah		Just talk.  Tell me about my son.  Is he tall?
reese		About my height.  He has your--  ...damn...he has your eyes.
sarah		What's he like?
reese		 You trust him.  He's got that strength.  You'd die in a second for John.
sarah		Well, at least I know what to name him.  I don't suppose you'd know who the father is? So I don't tell him to get lost when I meet him.
reese		John never said much about him.  He dies.  Even before the war...
sarah		 Stop!  I don't want to know. Hold still.  So...it was John that ordered you here?
reese		I volunteered.
sarah		You volunteered?
reese		It was an honor.  A chance to meet the legend.  Sarah Connor.  Who taught her son to fight...organize, prepare. From when he was a kid.  When you were in hiding, before the war.
sarah		You talk about things I haven't done yet in the past tense.  It's making me crazy.  I can't think.  Are you sure you've got the right person?
reese		I'm sure.
sarah		Come on, me? The mother of the future?  Am I tough? Organized?  I can't even balance my checkbook.  I cry when I see a cat that's been run over... and I don't even like cats.
reese		Ow!  No, it's okay.  It's better tight.
sarah		And anyway, what do I know about guerrilla warfare?
reese		You'll learn.
sarah		 Look, Reese, I didn't ask for this honor and I don't want it. Any of it.
reese		John gave me a message for you.  Made me memorize it. 'Sarah"...this is the message... 'Sarah, thank you.  For your courage through the dark years. I can't help you with what you must soon face, except to tell you that the future is not set... there is no such thing as Fate, but what we make for ourselves by our own will.  You must be stronger than you imagine you can be.  You must survive, or I will never exist.'  That's all.
reese		 Good field-dressing.
sarah		 You like it?  It's my first.
reese		Sleep.  It'll be light soon.
sarah		 Okay.  Talk some more.
reese		About what?
sarah		 About where you're from.
reese		Alright.  You stay down by day, but at night you can move around. The H-K's use infra-red so you still have to watch out. But they're not too bright. John taught us ways to dust them them.  That's when the infiltra- tors started to appear.  The Terminators were the newest, the worst...
sentry		 Terminator!
sarah		I was dreaming about dogs.
reese		We used them to spot Terminators.
sarah		Your world...it's pretty terrifying.
sarah		Put that away.  I'll get one.
sarah		 This works...really.
driver		...and when it breaks right off the point they get some pretty rad tubes up there. Not awesome, but I mean, worth the drive, if you're hardcore like me.
reese		 Rad tubes?
sarah		 He's a surfer.
driver		You from back East of something?
sarah		No, he's from the future.
driver		Whoah.  I hear that.  Listen, I had a rough night.  I gotta stop and bag some Z's.
driver		You can still ride if you wanna hang out for a couple hours.
sarah		Thanks.
reese		Bag some Z's?
sarah		Let's get cleaned up, Kyle.
reese		 Yours is over there.
reese		Aren't you afraid to be out in the open like this?
little girl		Huh?
sarah		...I know, Mom.  This is the soonest I could...I know. Mom...Mom, I can't talk long. No, I'm okay.  I'm okay, really.  Listen, I want you to pack some stuff and go up to the cabin for a few days.  Just don't...no, don't ask any questions. Just do it.  I gotta get going...gotta go.  Bye, bye.
sarah		Thanks a lot.
sarah		That's where we're going.
reese		Why?
sarah		Look.  I found it.  Isn't that it?  Cyber Dynamics Corporation?
reese		What about it?
sarah		Didn't you say that they're going to develop this revolutionary new thing...
reese		Molecular-memory.
sarah		Whatever...they become the hotshot computer guys so they get the job to build El Computer Grande...Skynet...for the government.  Right?
reese		 That's the way it was told to me.
sarah		Well, we're gonna uninvent the bastard.  Eighty-six it.  We'll blow up the place...burn it down.  Something.
reese		 Tactically dangerous.  We lay low.
sarah		Reese.  Think it through. We can prevent the war. Nobody else is gonna do it. If we go to anybody official we wind up back in jail and then that walking cuisinart has got us again.  We have to so it ourselves.
reese		That's not my mission.
sarah		 Listen.  Understand.  I'm not a military objective, Reese.  I'm a person... You don't own me.
reese		Let's go.  Time to move out.
sarah		Fuck you!  Let go of me!
reese		 Sarah!
sarah		Let...go...bastard...
sarah		 Oh, that's real smart. Go on, shoot me. That's brilliant.
sarah		 Jesus Christ, Reese.  Can't you see I'm scared?
sarah		 I can't spend my life waiting for that thing to catch up with me...always looking over my shoulder, wondering if I left some tiny clue behind...
sarah		Reese?
sarah		 Kyle?
reese		 I'm wrong here.  I wasn't meant to see this...
reese		 It's...like some dream. This...this...
reese		 ...and you...all so...beauti- ful.  It hurts, Sarah.  More than death.
reese		 Don't you understand...it's all gone!
sarah		We can change it, Kyle.  We have to try.
sarah		 There's no fate but what we make for ourselves. Right? Come on.  Let's go, kiddo. Whaddya say?
man		Hey, buddy, you got a dead cat in there of what?
terminator		Fuck you, asshole.
reese		Is this enough?
sarah		Yes.  And I don't want to know where you got it.
sarah		 We need a room...with a kitchen.
sarah		I'm dying for a shower.  You could use one too.  And we'd better check that bandage.
reese		Later.  I'm going out for materiel.  Keep this.
sarah		...No, Mom, I can't tell you where I am.  I was told not to say.
sarah		Okay, here's the number.  Are you ready?
sarah		Let's see.  Corn syrup. Ammonia.  Moth balls... Mmm.  What's for dinner?
reese		 Plastique.
sarah		What's that?
reese		Nitroglycerin, basically. Bit more stable.  I learned howto make it when I was a kid.
reese		Make sure there's none on the threads, like this.  Now screw the end-cap on...very gently.
sarah		You must have had a fun child- hood.
reese		That's good.  Now, seven more like that while I make fuses.
sarah		I was thinking, there's so much I've got to show you when we get through this. It's mind boggling, the pos- sibilities...Disneyland, the beach, movies...matinees with popcorn and foot-long hot dogs...
reese		Hot dogs?
sarah		I want to buy you a hot dog so bad,Kyle...all the things you've never seen and done.  You're here, but wherever you go, and whatever you touch, you bring the war with you.
reese		My whole life has been combat.
sarah		I want it to be over for you.
reese		Not possible.
sarah		I want it to be over for me too. I feel like I slipped over some invisible line, that I'm in your world now.  Everything's the same, but I see it differently. It's like, there's you and me, and him...but nobody else can understand or help or even touch us.
reese		We'll head out at 0200. That gives you four hours to sleep if you want.  I'll finish.
sarah		He'll find us, won't he?
reese		Probably.  Sarah, if I get zeroed...
sarah		Don't say that.
reese		If I do, you have to get away, disappear without a trace. Different country, different name, everything.  In case they send another one.
sarah		It'll never be over, will it? Look at me, I'm shaking. Some legend, huh?  You must be pretty disappointed.
reese		No.  I'm not.
sarah		 Kyle, the women in your time...what were they like?
reese		Good fighters.
sarah		That's not what I meant. Was there someone special?
reese		Someone?
sarah		A girl.  You know.
reese		 Never.
sarah		 I'm sorry.
sarah		So much pain.
reese		Pain can be controlled. You disconnect it.
sarah		And so you feel nothing.
reese		It's better that way.
sarah		 Oh, Kyle.
reese		John Connor gave me a picture of you once.  I never knew why.  It was very old. Torn. Faded.  You were young, like you are now.  You weren't smiling...just a little sad... I always wondered what you were thinking at that second.
reese		 I memorized every line, every curve...
reese		 Sarah, I came across time for you.  I love you. I always have.
reese		 I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have said...
sarah		Kyle...
sarah		I bet you're ticklish.
reese		 Ticklish?
reese		What are you doing?
sarah		 You'll beg for mercy in a second.
reese		I don't think I like this.
sarah		You're not supposed to.
reese		 Listen to the dogs.
reese		Light it now.
rider		 Don't try to move, buddy.
reese		Switch places with me.
sarah		Kyle...oh God...
sarah		Alriiight!
partner		Don't stop.
sarah		 Come on, come on, come on ...run, you...
sarah		Hold on real tight, okay?
sarah		 Hold on, goddamnit!
reese		 Sarah.
sarah		We did it, Kyle.  We got it.
sarah		 What are you doing?
reese		 Cover...our footsteps...
reese		 Leave me here.
sarah		I'm not leaving you anywhere you jerk.  Haven't you figured it out?  Kyle, John is our son.
sarah		 There isn't going to be anybody else...I don't want anybody else.  Listen to me!
sarah		 Move!  Reese! Let's go. Move you ass!
sarah		Come on!
reese		 Run!
reese		 Run, damn it!
sarah		 You're...terminated...fucker!
cop		Look, I told you not to touch anything until we're done.  You got that?
manager		Sure thing, officer.
assistant		What is it?
manager		Microcomputer chassis.  But I've never seen stuff like this anywhere.
assistant		Weird.  Jap stuff, maybe?
manager		Keep it out of sight and get it down to R and D Monday, first thing.
assistant		Good idea.
sarah		 Should I tell you about your father?  That's a tough one. Will it change your decision to send him here...knowing? But if you don't send Kyle, you could never be.  God, you can go crazy thinking about all this...I suppose I'll tell you...I owe him that. And maybe it'll be enough if you know that in the few hours we had together we loved a lifetime's worth...
attendant		He says you are very beautiful, Senora, and he is ashamed to ask five American dollars for this picture, but if he does not, his father will beat him.
sarah		That's a pretty good hustle, kid.  Four.  Quatro.
attendant		Mil trescientos...fifteen dollars American.
sarah		What did he say?
attendant		 There is a storm coming in.
sarah		 I know.
****Dialogues from script :Terminator_2__Judgement_Day.txt****

voice		3 billion human lives ended on August 29th, 1997. The survivors of the nuclear fire called the war Judgment Day.  They lived only to face a new nightmare, the war against the Machines...
cigar biker		You forgot to say please.
trucker		Evening...
lloyd		I can't let you take the man's wheels, son. Now get off or I'll put you down.
woman		...John?  John!  Get in here right now and clean up that pigsty of yours.
tim		Your foster parents are kinda dicks, right?
john		Gimme that Phillips right there.
janelle		I swear I've had it with that goddamn kid. He won't even answer me.  Todd?  Are you gonna sit there or are you gonna do something?
todd		John!  Get your ass inside right now and do what your mother says!
john		She's not my mother, Todd!
tim		Major moves, homes!  So... where is your real mom, anyway?  She dead or something?
john		She might as well be.
silberman		The next patient is a 29-year old female diagnosed as acute schizo-affective disorder. The usual indicators... depression, anxiety, violent acting-out, delusions of persecution.  Here we are.
silberman		'Morning, Sarah.
sarah		Good morning, Dr. Silberman.  How's the knee?
silberman		Fine, Sarah.  She, uh... stabbed me in the kneecap with a screwdriver a few weeks ago.
silberman		The delusional architecture is interesting. She believes a machine called a "terminator", which looks human of course, was sent back though time to kill her.  And also that the father of her child was a soldier, sent to protect her... he was from the future too...  Let's move on, shall we?
silberman		Douglas, I don't like seeing the patients disturbing their rooms like this.  See that she takes her thorazine, would you?
douglas		Time to take you meds, Connor.
sarah		You take it.
douglas		Now you know you got to be good 'cause you up for review this afternoon...
sarah		I'm not taking it.  Now I don't want any trouble...
douglas		Ain't no trouble at all --
sarah		You... son of a... AAARRGH!!
douglas		Last call, sugar.
john		Easy money!
tim		Where'd you learn all this stuff?
john		From my mom.  My real mom, I mean.  Come on baby...  Let's go!
tim		That her?
tim		So she's pretty cool, huh?
john		Actually, no, she's a complete psycho.  That's why she's up at Pescedero.  She tries to blow up a computer factory, but she got shot and arrested.
tim		No shit?
john		Yeah, she's a total loser.  C'mon, let's check out the 7-Eleven, whatya say?
todd		That's right, officer.  What's he done now?
todd		Well, you could if he was here.  Be he took off on his bike this morning.  Could be anywhere. You gonna tell me what his is about?
janelle		There was a guy here this morning asking about him, too.
todd		Yeah, big guy.  On a bike.  Has that got something to do with it?
todd		Get the album, Janelle.
sarah		Kyle..?  You're dead.
reese		I know.  This is a dream, Sarah.
sarah		Oh.  Yeah.  They... make me take this stuff...
sarah		Hold me.
reese		I love you.  I always will.
sarah		Oh, God... Kyle.  I need you so much.
sarah		They took him from me.
reese		It's John who's the target now.  You have to protect him.  He's wide open.
sarah		I know!
reese		Don't quit, Sarah.  Our son need you.
sarah		 I know, but I'm not as strong as I'm supposed to be.  I can't do it.  I'm screwing up the mission.
reese		Remember the message... the future is not set. There is not fate but what we make for ourselves.
sarah		Kyle, don't go!
reese		 There's not much time left in the world, Sarah.
video sarah		... it's... like a giant strobe light, burning right through my eyes... but somehow I can still see.  Look, you know the dream's the same every night, why do I have to --
video silberman		Please continue...
video silberman		Dreams about cataclysm, or the end of the world, are very common, Sarah...
video sarah		It's not just a dream.  It's real, you moron! I know the date is happens!!
video silberman		I'm sure it feels very real to you --
video sarah		On August 29th 1997 it's going to feel pretty fucking real to you, too!  Anybody not wearing number two million sunblock in gonna have a real bad day, get it?
video silberman		Relax now, Sarah --
video sarah		You think you're alive and safe, but you're already dead.  Everybody, you, him...  everybody... you're all fucking dead!
video sarah		You're the one living in a dream, Silberman, not me!  Because I know it happens.  It happens!
sarah		I was afraid... and confused.  I feel much better, now.  Clearer.
silberman		Yes.  Your attitude have been very positive lately.
sarah		It has helped me a lot to have a goal, something to look forward to.
silberman		And what it that?
sarah		You said I could be transferred to the minimum security wing and have visitors if I showed improvement in six months.  Well, it's been six months, and I was looking forward to seeing my son.
silberman		I see.  Let's go back to what you were saying about these terminator machines.  Now you think they don't exist?
sarah		They don't exist.  I see that now.
silberman		But you've told me on many occasions about how you crushed one in a hydraulic press.
sarah		If I had, there would have been some evidence. They would have found something at the factory.
silberman		I see.  So you don't believe anymore that the company covered it up?
dyson		Greetings, troops.
bryant		Mr. Dyson?  The material teams wants to run another test on the uh... on it.
dyson		Yup.  Come on.  I'll get it.
bryant		Listen, Mr. Dyson, I know I haven't been here that long, but I was wondering if you could tell me... I mean, if you know...
dyson		Know what?
bryant		Well... where it came from.
dyson		I asked them that question once.  Know what they told me?  Don't ask.
sarah		So what do you think, Doctor?  I've shown a lot of improvement, haven't I?
silberman		You see, Sarah... here's the problem.  I know how smart you are, and I think you're just telling me what I want to hear.  I don't think you really believe who you've been telling me today.
sarah		You have to let me see my son.  Please.  It's very important.  He's in danger.  At least let me call him --
silberman		I'm afraid not.  Not for a while.  I don't see any choice but to recommend to the review board that you stay here another six months.
sarah		YOU SON OF A BITCH!!
sarah		Goddammit.  Let me go!!  Silberman!  You don't know what you're doing!  You fuck!  You're dead! You hear me!!
silberman		Model citizen.
first girl		Yeah, he was here about fifteen minutes ago.  I think he said he was going to the Galleria.
tim		Some cop is scoping for you, dude.
terminator		Get down.
john		Whoa... time out.  Stop the bike!
john		Now don't take this the wrong way, but you are a terminator, right?
john		No way!
john		Holy shit... you're really real!  I mean... whoah!  You're, uh... like a machine underneath, right... but sort of alive outside?
terminator		I'm a cybernetic organism.  Living tissue over a metal endoskeleton.
john		This in intense.  Get a grip, John.  Okay, uh... you're not here to kill me... I figured that part out for myself.  So what's the deal?
terminator		My mission is to protect you.
john		Yeah?  Who sent you?
terminator		You did.  Thirty years from now you reprogrammed me to be your protector here, in this time.
john		This is deep.
john		So this other guy?  He's a terminator too, right, like you?
terminator		Not like me.  A T-1000.  Advanced prototype. A mimetic polyalloy.
john		What does that mean?
terminator		Liquid metal.
john		Radical.
terminator		You are targeted for termination.  The T-1000 will not stop until it complete its mission. Ever.
john		Where we going?
terminator		We have to leave the city, immediately.  And avoid the authorities.
john		Can I stop by my house?
terminator		Negative.  The T-1000 will definitely try to reacquire you there.
john		You sure?
terminator		I would.
john		Look, Todd and Janelle are dicks but I gotta warn them.  Shit!  You got a quarter?
janelle		Hello?
john		 Janelle?  It's me.
janelle		John?  Where are you, honey?  It's late.  You should come home, dear.  I'm making a casserole.
john		 Something's wrong.  She's never this nice.
todd		What the hell's the goddamn dog barking at? SHUT UP, YOU MUTT!
john		The dog's really barking.  Maybe it's already there.  What should I do?
janelle		 John?  John, are you okay?
terminator		 What's the dog's name?
john		Max.
terminator		Hey, Janelle, what's wrong with Wolfy?  I can hear him barking.  Is he okay?
janelle		 Wolfy's fine, honey.  Where are you?
terminator		Your foster parents are dead.  Let's go.
john		I need a minute here, okay?  You're telling me it can imitate anything it touches?
terminator		Anything it samples by physical contact.
john		Like it could disguise itself as anything... a pack of cigarettes?
terminator		No.  Only an object of equal size.
john		Well, why doesn't become a bomb or something to get me?
terminator		It can't form complex machines.  Guns and explosives have chemicals, moving parts.  It doesn't work that way.  But it can form solid metal shapes.
john		We spent a lot of time in Nicaragua... places like that.  For a while she was with this crazy ex-Green Beret guy, running guns.  Then there were some other guys.  She'd shack up with anybody she could learn from.  So then she could teach me how to be this great military leader.  Then she gets busted and it's like... sorry kid, your mom's a psycho.  Didn't you know?  It's like... everything I'd been brought up to believe was just made-up fantasy, right? I hated her for that.  We gotta get her out of there.
terminator		Negative.  The T-1000's highest probability for success now would be to copy Sarah Connor and wait for you to make contact with her.
john		Oh, great.  And what happens to her?
terminator		Typically, the subject being copied is terminated.
john		TERMINATED!?  Shit!  Why didn't you tell me? We gotta right now!
terminator		Negative.  She is not a mission priority.
john		Yeah, well fuck you, she's a priority to me!
john		Hey, goddammit!  What's your problem?
john		Help!  HELP!!  I'm being kidnapped!  Get this psycho off of me!
john		Let go of me!!
john		Oww!  Why'd you do that?
terminator		You told me to.
john		You have to do what I say?!
terminator		That is one of my mission parameters.
john		Prove it... stand on one foot.
john		Cool!  My own terminator.  This is great!
first jock		Hey, kid.  You okay?
john		Take a hike, bozo.
first jock		Yeah?  Fuck you, you little dipshit.
john		Dipshit?  Did you say dipshit?!  Grab this guy.
john		Now who's the dipshit, you jock douchebag?
john		Put the gun down!  NOW!!
john		Walk away.
john		Jesus... you were gonna kill that guy!
terminator		Of course.  I'm a terminator.
john		Listen to me, very carefully, okay?  You're not a terminator any more.  Alright?  You got that? You can't just go around killing people!
terminator		Why?
john		Whattaya mean, why?  'Cause you can't!
terminator		Why?
john		You just can't, okay?  Trust me on this.
john		Look, I'm gonna go get my mom.  You wanna come along, that's fine with me.
mossberg		He killed seventeen police officers that night. Recognize him?
mossberg		This one was taken by a Japanese tourist today.
weathersby		Ms. Connor, you've been told that your son's missing.  His foster parents have been murdered, and we know this guy's involved.  Talk to us. Don't you care?
mossberg		We're wasting out time.
silberman		Sorry, gentleman...
night nurse		Running late, aren't you?
night nurse		Your friends are on their way out now...
silberman		Lewis, see these gentleman out and them lock up for the night.
night nurse		Whatcha got, Lewis?
night nurse		Gotta check the gun first, Lewis.
silberman		You broke my arm!
sarah		There's 215 bones in the human body, motherfucker. That's one.  Now don't move!
douglas		Open the door!  The goddamn bitch is loose in the halls!
john		Now remember, you're not gonna kill anyone, right?
terminator		Right.
john		Swear.
terminator		What?
john		Just say "I swear I won't kill anyone."
terminator		I swear I will not kill anyone.
terminator		He'll live.
sarah		Open it or he'll be dead before he hits the floor.
silberman		It won't work, Sarah.  You're no killer.  I don't believe you'd do it.
sarah		You're already dead, Silberman.  Everybody here dies.  You know I believe that.  So don't fuck with me!
silberman		Open the goddamn door!
sarah		Step back!
sarah		Down on the floor!  Now!
silberman		Get her!
silberman		Go around, goddamnit!  Go around!!
john		Mom!!  Wait!
sarah		No!  Help me!  Goddamnit, it's gonna kill us all!!!
john		Mom, are you okay?
terminator		Come with me if you want to live.
john		It's all right, Mom.  He's here to help.
terminator		Go!  Run!
sarah		Out of the car!!
sarah		RIGHT NOW!
terminator		 Hang on.
terminator		Drive.
john		Can you see anything?
terminator		Everything.
john		Cool.
sarah		You okay?
john		I said I was okay.
sarah		It was stupid of you to go there.
sarah		Goddamnit, John, you have to be smarter than that.  You're too important!  You can't risk yourself, not even for me, do you understand? I can take care of myself.  I was doing fine. Jesus, John.  You almost got yourself killed.
john		I... had to get you out of the place... I'm sorry, I...
sarah		Stop it!  Right now!  You can't cry, John. Other kids can afford to cry.  You can't.
terminator		What is wrong with your eyes?
sarah		So what's your story?
silberman		... it was all true and we're all going to die and the changed, I saw him change!!
terminator		Ballistic penetration shocks it, but only for a few seconds.
sarah		Can it be destroyed?
terminator		Unknown.
sarah		Pull in here.  We have to ditch this car.
sarah		You look like handmade shit.
terminator		So do you.
terminator		I have detailed files on human anatomy.
sarah		I'll bet. Makes you a more efficient killer, right?
terminator		Correct.
john		Does it hurt?
terminator		I sense injuries.  The data could be called pain.
sarah		Will these heal up?
sarah		That's good.  Because if you can't pass for human, you won't be much good to us.
john		How long do you live?  I mean, last?
terminator		A hundred and twenty years on my existing power cell.
john		Can you learn?  So you can be... you know. More human.  Not such a dork all the time.
terminator		My CPU is a neural-net processor... a learning computer.  But Skynet presets the switch to "read-only" when we are sent out alone.
sarah		 Doesn't want you thinking too much, huh?
terminator		No.
john		Can we reset the switch?
terminator		Now open the port cover.
terminator		Hold the CPU by its base tab.  Pull.
john		Can you see the pin switch?
john		No!!!!
sarah		Out of the way, John!
john		No!  Don't kill him!
sarah		It, John.  Not him.  It.
john		Alright, it!  We need it!
sarah		We're better off by ourselves.
john		But it's the only proof we have to the future... about the war and all that.
sarah		I don't trust it!  These things are hard to kill, John, believe me, I know.  We may never have this opportunity again.
john		Look, Mom, if I'm supposed to ever be this great leader, you should start listening to my leadership ideas once in a while.  'Cause if you won't, nobody else will.
terminator		Was there a problem?
john		No problem.  None whatsoever.
john		Are we learning yet?
sarah		Just head south.
sarah		Keep it under sixty-five.  We can't afford to be pulled over.
terminator		Affirmative.
john		No, no, no.  You gotta listen to the way people talk.  See, you don't say like "Affirmative" or some shit like that.  You say... no problemo.
john		It someone comes off to you with an attitude, you say "eat me"... if you wanna shine them on, it's "Hasta la vista, baby".
terminator		"Hasta la vista, baby"?
john		Yeah, or "later, dickwad."  Or if someone gets upset you say "chill out."  Like that.  Or you can do combinations.
terminator		Chill out, dickwad.
john		That's great!  See, you're getting it.
terminator		No problemo.
sarah		You got any cash?
john		Only a couple hundred bucks.  I'll give you half.
sarah		Get some food.
john		No sense of humor.
john		And that's another thing.  You could lighten up a bit, yourself.  This severe routine is getting old.  Smile once in a while.
terminator		Smile?
john		Yeah.  Smile.  You know.  People smile, right? Watch.
john		 Hi.  Nice place you got here.  How's business?
window woman		 Gimme a break.
john		 Okay.  Bad example.  Over there, look.
john		Like that.
john		I don't know, maybe you could practice in front of a mirror or something.
first kid		You're dead!
second kid		Am not!
first kid		Are so!
john		We're not gonna make it, are we?  People, I mean.
terminator		It is in your nature to destroy yourselves.
john		Yeah.  Drag, huh?
sarah		I need to know how Skynet get built.  Who's responsible?
terminator		The man most directly responsible is Miles Bennet Dyson, Director of Special Projects at Cyberdyne Systems Corporation.
sarah		Why him?
terminator		In a few months he creates a revolutionary type of mircoprocessor.
sarah		Then what?
terminator		In three years Cyberdyne will become the largest supplier of military computer systems.  All stealth bombers are upgraded with Cyberdyne computers, becoming fully unmanned,  Afterward, the fly with a perfect operational record.
sarah		 Uh huh, great.  Then those fat fucks in Washington figure, what the hell, let a computer run the whole show, right?
terminator		Basically.  The Skynet funding bill is passed.  The system goes on-line August 4th, 1997.  Human decisions are removed from strategic defense.  Skynet begins to learn, at a geometric rate.  It becomes self-aware at 2:14 a.m. eastern time, August 29. In a panic, they try to pull the plug.
sarah		And Skynet fights back.
terminator		Yes.  It launches its ICBMs against their targets in Russia.
sarah		Why attack Russia?
terminator		Because Skynet knows the Russian counter-strike will remove its enemies here.
sarah		Jesus.  How much do you know about Dyson?
terminator		I have detailed files.
sarah		I want to know everything.  What he looks like. Where he lives.  Everything.
tarissa		You going to work all day?
dyson		I'm sorry, baby.  This thing is just kicking my ass.  I thought we had it with this one...
dyson		... but the output went to shit after three seconds.  I'm thinking now it's the way I'm matrixing the command hierarchies...
tarissa		You need a break.  You'll see it clear when you come back.
dyson		I can't
tarissa		Miles, it's Sunday.  You promised to take the kids to Raging Waters today.
dyson		Oh.  I can't, honey.  I'm on a roll here.
dyson		Baby, this thing is going to blow 'em all away. It's a neural-net process --
tarissa		I know.  You told me.  It's a neural-net processor.  It thinks and learns like we do. It's superconducting at room temperature. Other computer are pocket calculators by comparison.  But why is that so goddamn important, Miles? I really need to know, 'cause I feel like I'm going crazy here, sometimes.
dyson		I'm sorry, honey, it's just that I'm thiiis close.
dyson		Imagine a jetline with a pilot that never makes a mistake, never gets tired, never shows up to work with a hangover.  Meet the pilot.
tarissa		Why did you marry me, Miles?  Why did we have these two children?  You don't need us.  Your heart and your mind are in here.  But it doesn't love you like we do.
dyson		I'm sorry.
tarissa		How about spending some time with your other babies?
sarah		 Stay in the truck.
sarah		 Enrique?  You here?
salceda		You pretty jumpy, Connor.
salceda		 Good to see you, Connor.  I knew you'd make it back here sooner or later.
salceda		Oye, Big John!  Que pasa?  Who's your very large friend?
john		 Uncle Bob, this is Enrique.
salceda		Hmmm.  Uncle Bob, huh?  Okay.  Yolanda.  Get out here, we got company.  And bring some fucking tequila!
terminator		Uncle Bob?
salceda		 So, Sarahlita, you getting famous, you know that?  All over the goddamn TV.
salceda		Honey, take Pacolito.  Thanks, baby.
salceda		 Drink?
sarah		I just came for my stuff.  And I need clothes, food, and one of your trucks.
salceda		 Hey, how about the fillings out of my fucking teeth while you're at it?
sarah		Now, Enrique.  You two are on weapons detail.
john		Hook it on.
john		One thing about my mom... she always plans ahead.
terminator		Excellent.
john		Yeah, I thought you'd like this place.
salceda		This is the best truck, but the water pump is blown.  You got the time to change it out?
sarah		Yeah.  I'm gonna wait till dark to cross the border.  Enrique, it's dangerous for you here.  You get out tonight, too, okay?
salceda		Yeah, Saralita.  Sure.  Just drop by any time and totally fuck up my life.
john		See, I grew up in places like this, so I just thought it was how people lived... riding around in helicopters.  Learning how to blow shit up.
john		Then, when Mom got busted I got put in a regular school.  The other kids were, like, into Nintendo.
john		Are you ever afraid?
terminator		No.
john		Not even of dying?
terminator		No.
john		You don't feel any emotion about it one way or the other?
terminator		No.  I have to stay functional until my mission is complete.  Then it doesn't matter.
john		Yeah.  I have to stay functional too.  "I'm too important".
john		It's definitely you.
john		There was this one guy that was kinda cool. He taught me engines.  Hold this a second.  Mom screwed it up, of course.  Sooner or later she'd always tell them about Judgment Day and me being this world leader and that's be all she wrote.
terminator		Torque wrench please.
john		Here.  I wish I coulda met my real dad.
terminator		You will.
john		Yeah.  I guess so.  My mom says when I'm, like, 45, I think, I send him back through time to 1984.  But right now he hasn't even been born yet.  Man, is messes with your head.  Where's that other bolt?  Thanks.  Mom and him were only together for one night, but she still loves him, I guess.  I see her crying sometimes.  She denies it totally, of course.  Like she says she got something in her eye.
terminator		Why do you cry?
john		You mean people?  I don't know.  We just cry. You know.  When it hurts.
terminator		Pain causes it?
john		Uh-unh, no, it's different... It's when there's nothing wrong with you but you hurt anyway.  You get it?
terminator		No.
john		Alriight!!  My man!
terminator		No problemo.
sarah		... if we are ever separated, and can't make contact, go to Enrique's airstrip.  I'll rendezvous with you there.
bike cop		Howdy.  I saw you pulled over here earlier. Everything okay?
salceda		She said you go south with him...  ... tonight, like you planned.  She will meet you tomorrow in...
john		Mommm!! Wait!!
john		"No fate."  No fate but what we make.  My father told her this... I mean I made him memorize it, up in the future, as a message to her -- Never mind.  Okay, the whole thing goes "The future is not set.  There is no fate but what we make for ourselves."
terminator		She intends to change the future somehow.
john		I guess, yeah --  Oh shit!!
terminator		Dyson.
john		Yeah, gotta be!  Miles Dyson!  She's gonna blow him away!
john		Come on.  Let's go.  LET'S GO!!
terminator		This is tactically dangerous.
john		Drive faster.
terminator		The T-1000 has the same files that I do.  It could anticipate this move and reacquire you at Dyson's house.
john		I don't care.  We've gotta stop her.
terminator		Killing Dyson might actually prevent the war.
john		I don't care!! There's gotta be another way. Haven't you learned anything?!  Haven't you figured out why you can't kill people?
john		Look, maybe you don't care if you live or die. But everybody's not like that!  Okay?!  We have feelings.  We hurt.  We're afraid.  You gotta learn this stuff, man, I'm not kidding.  It's important.
dyson		Run, kids!  Go!  Run!
tarissa		Miles!  Oh my God!!
miles		Stay back!!
john		Shit, we're too late!
tarissa		Danny!  DANNY!
danny		Daaaaddddeeee!
sarah		Don't fucking move!  Don't FUCKING MOVE!!  Get on the floor, bitch!  Now!!  Fucking down! NOW!!
blythe		Don't hurt my father!
sarah		 Shut up, kid!  Get out of the way!!
dyson		 Please... let... the kids... go...
sarah		Shut up!  SHUT UP!!  Motherfucker!  It's all your fault!  IT'S YOUR FAULT!!
john		Mom?  You okay?
sarah		I couldn't... oh, God.  You... came here... to stop me?
john		Uh huh.
john		It's okay.  It'll by okay.  We'll figure it out.
sarah		I love you, John.  I always have.
john		I know, Mom.  I know.
terminator		Clean penetration.  No shattered bone. Compression should control the loss of blood.
terminator		Do you have bandages?
dyson		In the bathroom.  Danny, can you get them for us?
dyson		Who are you people?
john		Show him.
dyson		My God.
terminator		Now listen to me very carefully.
dyson		I feel like I'M gonna throw up.
dyson		You're judging me on thing's I haven't even done yet.  Jesus.  How were we supposed to know?
sarah		Yeah.  Right.  How were you supposed to know? Fucking men... all you know how to do is thrust into the world with your... fucking ideas and your weapons.  Did you know that every gun in the world is named after a man?  Colt, Browning, Smith, Thompson, Kalashnikov... all men.  Men built the hydrogen bomb, not women... men like you thought it up.  You're so creative.  You don't know what it's like to really create something... to create a life.  To feel it growing inside you.  All you know how to create is death... you fucking bastards.
john		Mom, Mom, we need to be more constructive here. I don't see this as a gender-related issue.  We still have to figure out how to stop it all from happening.  Right?
tarissa		But I thought... aren't we changing things?  I mean... right now?  Changing the way it goes?
dyson		 That's right!  There's no way I'm going to finish the new processor now.  Forget it.  I'm out of it.  I'm quitting Cyberdyne tomorrow... I'll sell real estate, I don't care,,,
sarah		 That's not good enough.
dyson		Look, whatever you want me to do, I'll do.  I just want my kids to have a chance to grow up, okay?
terminator		No one must follow your work.
dyson		 Alright, yeah.  You're right.  We have to destroy the stuff at the lab, the files, disk drive... and everything I have here.  Everything! I don't care.
dyson		Do you know about the chip?
sarah		What chip?
dyson		They have it in a vault at Cyberdyne...  It's gotta be from the other one like you.
terminator		 The CPU from the first terminator.
sarah		Son of a bitch, I knew it!
dyson		They told us not to ask where they got it.  I thought... Japan... hell, I don't know.  I didn't want to know.
sarah		Those lying motherfuckers!
dyson		I was scary stuff, radically advanced.  It was shattered... didn't work.  But it gave us ideas, It took us in new directions... things we would never have thought of.  All this work is based on it.
terminator		I must be destroyed.
sarah		 Can you get us in there, past security?
dyson		I think so, yeah.  When?
dyson		Now?  Yeah, right.
tarissa		Miles, I'm scared.  Okay.  But the only thing that scares me more than you going... is you not going.
sarah		 Is it safe for them here?
terminator		 Let's go.
dyson		Evening, Paul.  These are friends of mine from out of town, I just thought I'd take them up and show them around.
gibbons		I'm sorry, Mr. Dyson.  You know the rules about visitors in the lab.  I need written authoriz --
terminator		I insist.
sarah		Don't even think about it.
dyson		The vault needs two keys to open.  Mine...  ... and one from the security station.  It's in a locker but my card should access it.  Here we go.
moshier		Honey, I'm home...
moshier		Hey, man, you shouldn't leave the --
dyson		What?  WHAT IS IT?
dyson		Silent alarm's been tripped.  It neutralizes the codes throughout the building.  Nothing'll open now.
dyson		We should abort.
sarah		NO!! We're going all the way!  You got that, Dyson?
gibbons		... multiple armed subjects.  Look, I think it's the guy from that mall shootout, and the woman... yeah, her.  Pretty sure.  Just send everything you've got in the area --
john		You guys get started on the lab... I can open this.
dyson		No good.
terminator		Let me try mine.
sarah		 John!  Fire-in-the-hole!
dyson		Fire's set off the halo system!  Here... hurry!
dyson		Here!
dyson		 We'll have to keep these on a couple minutes, till the gas clears.
dyson		 And all this here... that's it.
dyson		Give me that thing a second.
dyson		I've worked for years on this thing.
john		Easy money.
dyson		How do you set them off?
terminator		Radio remote.
john		I got it.  Piece of cake.
sarah		 Go!  I'll finish here.
terminator		I'll deal with the police.
john		Remember what I said, you can't...
terminator		Trust me.
john		And let's see what's behind door number one.
john		Got ol' Skynet by the ball now, Miles.  Come on, let's book!
john		Ready to rock?
sarah		Ready.
terminator		Time to go.  Right now.
sarah		Dyson, hand me the detonator.  Let's go --
john		Mommm!!!
dyson		Go.
terminator		Get back.
terminator		Cover you ears and open you mouth.
dyson		I don't know... how much longer... I can... hold this thing...
leader		Fall back!!  Everybody out!  Move it!  OUT NOW!
john		 Don't forget.  It's always darkness right before... you're totally fucked.
terminator		Keep your eyes closed.  Don't move.  I'll be back.
leader		 Stop where you are.  Lie down on the floor, face down.  Down on floor, now!
leader		Drop him.
leader		You're not hitting him!
sarah		John, get under these.  Hurry!
driver		Goddamn, are you alri --
terminator		 We need your truck.
john		Faster!  He's right on us!
terminator		Drive for a minute.
john		Where you going?!
terminator		Hasta la vista, baby.
john		Okay, Mom, we gotta get out now, come on. That's it.
terminator		We don't have much time.
john		What?
john		Come on!  Let's go!
john		Come on, Mom, you can do it!  Come on!!
terminator		Keep going.
terminator		RUN!
john		 Come on, you gotta try... please, Mom.  Get up!
john		Mom!  MOMMM!!
sarah		John?  John?  Can you hear me?  Where are you?
sarah		 Help me, honey...
sarah		John, get out of the way!!
john		 SHOOT!!!!
terminator		I need a vacation.
john		 Is it dead?
terminator		Terminated.
john		Will it melt in there?
terminator		Yes.  Throw it in.
terminator		And the chip.
sarah		It's finally over.
terminator		No.  There is another chip.
terminator		And it must be destroyed also.
john		No!
terminator		I'm sorry, John.
john		No, no no!!  It'll be okay.  Stay with us!
terminator		I have to go away, John.
john		Don't do it.  Please... don't go --
terminator		It must end here... or I am the future.
john		I order you not to!
terminator		I know now why you cry.  But it is something I can never do.  Goodbye.
sarah		Are you afraid?
terminator		Yes.
girl		Tie me, grandma.
****Dialogues from script :Terminator_Salvation.txt****

priest		Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art beside me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me...
serena		Marcus-- I'm Doctor Serena Kogan, I'm with Project Angel. You consented to donate your body to science...
2.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Yeah, I'm pretty much done with it.
serena		You've been chosen for our research.
marcus		Chosen?    Lucky me.
serena		We just need a couple of signatures...
marcus		You don't need to be scared.
serena		I'm not.    It's nerve degeneration.
marcus		Cancer?
serena		 You're not the only one with a death sentence.
marcus		I'm a regular hero.
3.		CONTINUED: 
serena		Thank you.     And... I'm sorry.
marcus		No one lives forever.
4.		CONTINUED:
5.		CONTINUED:
6.		CONTINUED:
team leader		Clear!
team leader		Oh God.
team leader		You will not believe the shit we found down here--
7.		CONTINUED:
pilot		--repeat, that was not us! A ship escaped, they musta blown the place themselves! Jesus, a lot of our guys were still down there...
marcus		Hallelujah.
10.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Hey!   Yo, over here!
boy		Hey mister, where you goin' in such a hurry?
11.		CONTINUED:
marcus		You're human... you can see me, you can touch me. This place is real.
boy		 This sure ain't heaven.
marcus		Those things with masks, red eyes--
boy		 Terminators-- T-400s.   What is this stuff?
12.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		If I'm not in hell, where am I?!
boy		 Texas!
girl		Let him go!
marcus		First put down the shotgun.
boy		Do what he says.
girl		He'll kill us both!
marcus		I don't wanna kill anyone.
boy		Do it, Star. Put it down.
girl		There was only one bullet in that gun.
13.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		I don't like it when people point guns at me.
girl		It wasn't loaded.
marcus		You took on a guy like me with one bullet and an empty shotgun?  Pretty stupid.
girl		Can I have my gun back?
marcus		In the city.
14.		CONTINUED: 
boy		 The city? Oh man. That place is red hot.
marcus		 Seemed kinda dead to me.
boy		No-- radiation.
marcus		That wasn't a helicopter...
boy		It's an H-K-- hunter-killer.   Where the hell have you been?
girl		Rads musta fried his brains.   Let's go, Kyle.
kyle		What's your name?
15.		CONTINUED: 
kyle		Kyle Reese.  --so I call her Star.
star		 Why? We don't need him.
kyle		 I like him. He's funny.
marcus		What year is it?
star		Seventeen.
kyle		Nope.   Eighteen. 
16.		CONTINUED:
star		Are you sure?
kyle		Yup.   Two thousand eighteen.
marcus		Fifteen years... I've lost 15 years. So who did it to us? Terrorists? The Russians, the Chinese--?
star		Huh?
marcus		The nukes. There was a war, right? Who started it?
kyle		Something fall on your head? The machines did it, the computers-- they got smart.
star		Judgment Day... I was just a baby.
kyle		What's the last thing you remember?
marcus		 Dying.
kyle		Eyeball.   Only one.
17.		CONTINUED:
star		Now!
marcus		That flying grapefruit, what was it?
kyle		Aerostat-- one of Skynet's eyes. They patrol places like this, looking for survivors.
star		Yes!
kyle		Any red ones?
18.		CONTINUED:
star		Yuk!
marcus		Jalapeo sauce.
star		You can read.
kyle		So can I.  Well, sort of... a little.
star		Want some?
marcus		No thanks.     Not hungry.
kyle		Never heard anyone say that before.
19.		CONTINUED:
marcus		I look the same.
kyle		You ever watch television?
marcus		Oh yeah. Was about all I ever had to look forward to in the joint.
star		 What's a joint?
marcus		 Prison. Spent half my life there.
kyle		I remember TV a little.   Cartoons. It was great.
marcus		She your sister?
kyle		Dunno. Been together since we was little. Bunch of us kids was at the day-care center when the bombs fell... she and me are the only ones still around.
marcus		 So this is it? Your life?
20.		CONTINUED: 
kyle		We're gonna find the Resistance, fight for John Connor against Skynet. You oughta join us, you're pretty cool.
marcus		You don't know me.
kyle		You're strong, you can read... you didn't kill us. Good enough for me...
marcus		Skynet runs the machines...?   So who's this John Connor?
kyle		He's... I don't know. The best. Everybody talks about him. He's the one who's gonna save us.
marcus		Yeah, right. Him and Jesus.
kyle		Who's Jesus?
marcus		You're asking the wrong guy.
kyle		 So why were you in prison?
marcus		 I killed a cop.
kyle		Were cops like terminators?
marcus		Well... Nah, some of `em were all right. 
21.		CONTINUED:  Max must be dead too, now... like everybody else.
kyle		You gonna be here when I wake up?
marcus		Sure.
kyle		Good.   Stay away from the windows.
star		Just me.
22.		CONTINUED:
marcus		The bible. My grandma always tried to get me into it, but-- it always put me to sleep.  Still does.
star		Would you read something to me?
marcus		"...of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori. Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son Jephunneh--"
star		There's a book inside with pictures.
marcus		"Guaranteed lowest prices... open seven days..."
star		What's that?
marcus		It's a flower. A rose.
star		 So... all those numbers... you could call them and get, like, flowers, or someone to come over and fix stuff, or bring you food...
23.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		 What else we got... movers, mufflers, music--
star		Music?
marcus		You know, pianos, guitars...
star		I don't remember music.
marcus		Come on. You must...  "We are family... I got all my sisters with me..." No, huh. How about... "Twinkle twinkle little star..."
marcus		You OK?
star		 Somebody used to sing that to me.
24.		CONTINUED: 
kyle		If we get it to move, will you teach me to make it go?
marcus		It's called driving.   Sure.
star		Wow.   What were these like?
marcus		 Not too many around in my time.
star		Now!
marcus		Pop the clutch! Let your foot up!
kyle		Aerostat's coming!
star		Music...
marcus		Sort of. 
26.		CONTINUED:
star		Oh no! It's gonna call a Harvester, we're dead--
kyle		Wow.   You're good.
star		Faster!
marcus		No!    You're doing fine. 
27.		CONTINUED:
radio voice		--proper ratio of ammonium nitrate to diesel fuel. A bomb of this type can be contained in an ordinary plastic garbage bag, and will detonate on impact...
kyle		 That's him!
radio voice		This recording has described booby- traps and explosive devices. It will repeat every two hours on different frequencies to avoid Skynet jamming...
marcus		Stop the car.
28.		CONTINUED: 
radio voice		Do not give in to despair. As bleak as things seem, I assure you, humanity will triumph.
kyle		We oughta find a place to hole up for the day...
marcus		Damn it.    Empty.
kyle		You smell that?
star		Food!
marcus		What is this?
kyle		 Who cares?
marcus		Spit it out!
star		 It's good!
30.		CONTINUED:
cow		Not much meat on `em.
pig		This one's fi-i-ine--
marcus		Oops.
pig		We didn't kill `em! I swear to God, they was dead already, we wasn't gonna let `em rot--
bull		Go `head, take as much as you want, we're on the same side here--
31.		CONTINUED: 
32.		CONTINUED:
33.		CONTINUED:
34.		CONTINUED: 
35.		CONTINUED:
36.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Name's Marcus.
blair		You can put me down now, Marcus.
marcus		I'm heading that way.
blair		 The hot zone? No you're not.
marcus		I've got to get to my friends--
blair		What friends? 
37.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		Couple of kids. They were in that flying dumpster--
blair		The Skynet transport? It was carrying people?  Christ, we almost shot it down. There've been rumors about a concentration camp, but...
marcus		Hydrobots?
blair		They can't see, but they have killer sonar. They'll attack anything that moves or makes a sound. Even if you get past them, you'd be dead before you covered a hundred yards. If the terminators don't get you, the fallout will-- heavy rads all the way to the Gulf coast, nothing can live there.
marcus		You're with the Resistance.
blair		Lt. Blair Williams, I fly for what used to be the Air National Guard.
38.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		I don't know... this has gotta be some kind of, like, dream or hallucination. Like what happens to people right before they die...
blair		That snap you out of it?
blair		So let me get this straight, Marcus. There you are on death row, they stick a needle in your arm... 
39.		CONTINUED: BLAIR  Since this ain't the resurrection, there's only one possibility.
marcus		Let's hear it.
blair		Whatever they pumped into your veins just knocked you out. This Angel Project you signed up for-- there was a lotta cryogenic stuff going on before the bombs fell, they musta froze your ass.
marcus		What the hell for?
blair		Drug tests, medical experiments, organ harvesting, who knows? You said you had no family, no friends-- why let a body like yours go to waste?
marcus		I've never seen trees like these.
blair		We're in a mutation zone. I saw a two-headed squirrel here once--
marcus		Freaky.
blair		 Tasted like chicken.
40.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		What was that?
blair		I didn't hear anything--
marcus		They're surrounding us.
blair		They're smart. And they don't scare easy.
41.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		Dog eat dog world.
blair		Thanks.
marcus		Staf?   What's that mean? 
42.		CONTINUED:
blair		It's a resistance term.    Sit tight and fuck.
marcus		I'm not gay. In prison, I thought about puss-- women all the time. But now... it's not working. Who knows, all those years on ice...
blair		Maybe it's just gonna take some time. Before you're completely thawed out.
marcus		I dunno. They just... sorta reminded me of her.
blair		Who?
marcus		There's a woman, the last woman I saw before... when I was under, the dead time-- she kept coming to me. I think she must've saved me.
blair		I can't compete with that.
43.		CONTINUED: 
kyle		We've landed.
44.		CONTINUED:
star		What's going to happen to us?
kyle		I don't know...
marcus		We're in somebody's garden.
blair		Christ... there's supposed to be barbed wire along the edge.
marcus		Over there.
45.		CONTINUED:
blair		Whatever you do, don't move.  We're in the middle of the mine field.
barnes		Somebody feed those things!
morrison		Start up the generator, Barnes.
lisa		We got company! 
46.		CONTINUED:
barnes		Blair? Good to see you.  What's the password?
blair		Eat shit and die, Barnes!
barnes		Close enough. Who's your friend?
blair		Could you get us outta here please?
barnes		Kinda dumb-ass, wandering around in a mine field.
blair		You didn't maintain the perimeter! Where are your sentries?
barnes		It's too early for that military crap.
47.		CONTINUED:
blair		You goddamn idiot!
barnes		He was takin' bigger steps!
morrison		Son of a bitch is heavy.
jane		He stepped on a Claymore? This guy oughta be in a hundred pieces...
48.		CONTINUED:
blair		What are you doing?
jane		Does he have a prosthetic limb?
blair		I don't think so.
jane		This is not skin... oh Jesus-- oh God--
serena		Why isn't he conscious? Something's wrong, he should be coming out of it by now...
marcus		Boo!
jane		Thermoplastic skin, some larger hydraulics, but mostly titanium microgears... This looks like some sort of aeration and hydration system, function unclear at this point. Valves and what looks like an access panel below the ribcage... 
50.		CONTINUED:
blair		Whatever he is-- he's on our side--
morrison		How can he be?
blair		He saved my life!
morrison		Winning your trust would aid his infiltration.
lisa		Regional doesn't know what to do. They're gonna patch us through to Command Los Angeles.
nancy		How could you bring this monster here?! This is our home! Our children--
blair		What do you want from me-- I didn't know!
51.		CONTINUED: 
kid		It's awake!
marcus		Get me the hell down from here!
barnes		Shut up!   I told you to shut up!
blair		Leave him alone!  Marcus, I'm so sorry...
barnes		It keeps talkin' at me. God this thing gives me the creeps.
marcus		Why are you doing this?    What is this place?
morrison		We're trying to--
nancy		 Don't say anything!     It's probably uplinked to Skynet.
morrison		Then it's already too late.  This used to be an ICBM silo, we're just trying to stay alive here. Your turn-- where'd you come from?
52.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Corpus Christi. It's in Texas.     Or it was.
barnes		 It sounds completely human... it really could pass.
jane		Didn't John Connor say they'd start building things like this?
morrison		Not yet-- not for years.  So, you're programmed with false memories, a human history--
marcus		What are you talking about?
morrison		You can skip the act, we know what you are.
nancy		Why are you even speaking to it?!
barnes		She's right, let's just waste the damn thing--
nancy		It'll kill us all if we give it a CHANCE--
marcus		I'm a man!
53.		CONTINUED:  Do it!
lisa		Regional got through to CLA-- they want us to rig a video feed.  He wants to see him.
morrison		Who does?
lisa		John Connor.
marcus		So this guy is what, like king of the world, or what's left of it? 
54.		CONTINUED:
morrison		John Connor founded the Resistance. When the war began, no one even knew who the enemy was-- Connor taught us how to fight back. He saved humanity.
marcus		Yeah, well, humanity's never done all that much for me. Why can't I see him?
morrison		Nobody sees him. Skynet can't be allowed to discover his location, even his appearance is kept secret.
connor's voice		--hello-- standing by--
lisa		Sir, we can hear you, sir, working on a visual, sir...
connor		Not what I expected...
55.		CONTINUED:
connor's voice		It does seem lifelike-- is the face able to mimic emotions--?
marcus		This shit is ridiculous. What the hell do you want from me?
connor		 I-- I need to know what you are.
marcus		So do I! I don't know what I am, what I'm doing here, I don't know shit-- maybe I never did, but-- I'm sick of it! Just blow my head off or let me go.
connor		This isn't right. I can't be having a conversation with a terminator, Skynet isn't that sophisticated yet. Unless... were you sent here from the future?
marcus		 What?
connor		Skynet's developing a time displacement field, we've decrypted recent data transmissions.  I know for a fact that soon machines will be travelling back decades. To try and stop us from winning this war before it begins...
marcus		You're out of your mind, aren't you?
56.		CONTINUED: 
connor's voice		Jesus... I've seen enough. Stand by for further instructions.
kate		He's not a cyborg-- no blood, no human tissue over the endoskeleton.
connor		Besides, the first T-800s won't be
kate		Where did they find him?
connor		I want him extracted.
57.		CONTINUED:
connor		Get him to our best people for disassembly, find out what makes him tick. We need to get into that metal skull, crack his CPU at all costs.
kate		Because people trust you... you give them faith--
connor		No. Because I knew I would be, I was told. I know when and where the major battles are going to take place. I know I'm going to send my own father back through time to save my mother-- even though I haven't met him yet. Christ, I even know the year I'm going to die...
kate		JOHN--
connor		So how could I not know about this?!
58.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Feels like I been here before... what are you gonna do to me?
morrison		Nothing. Los Angeles is sending a chopper-- seems you're some kind of VIP.
kyle		We're stopping.
59.		CONTINUED:
star		I'm scared.
kyle		 Whatever happens, we stick together.
60.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Hello? Anyone there?  I'm thirsty.
barnes		 Want some motor oil?
marcus		I need water.
barnes		Bullshit.    Machines don't drink.
marcus		Please, I'm--
barnes		Shut up, robot!
blair		How's it going, Barnes? Thought you might like a late-night snack.
61.		CONTINUED:
barnes		Where in hell'd you get these?
blair		We got a stash back at the base.
barnes		Kinda stale.
blair		You need something to wash it down.
barnes		I'm on duty, you know.
blair		You know I always liked you, Barnes.   I just didn't want to join the harem.
barnes		What can I say? It's our duty to repopulate the planet.
blair		Noble of you to make the sacrifice.
barnes		C'mere.
blair		I prefer a little privacy. 
62.		CONTINUED: 
barnes		You're so twentieth century...
blair		Men.   You're all talk.
marcus		Why are you doing this?
blair		I don't believe you're a terminator.
marcus		So what am I...?
blair		Whatever you are-- I owe you one. Once you're free, I'll lie down next to Barnes-- they'll assume you escaped while we were passed out--
63.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		You think they'll buy that?
blair		Worth a shot.  Marcus, Command wants to take you apart, cut open your head. One thing I know, you're alive-- and you've got a right to live.
blair		They're already here for you--
marcus		I'm heading across the river.
blair		No human being can survive there--
64.		CONTINUED:
marcus		I'm not human, remember?
blair		You're gonna try and save those kids.
marcus		It's the only thing I can think of that makes any sense...
blair		Marcus, for all you know, they're dead already--
marcus		For all I know, they're the reason I'm back from the dead.
blair		Damn it, we're too late--
marcus		Where's that go?
blair		Should lead out, but there's no way past the fan--
blair		Here. My ELT-- emergency locator transmitter. If you find the camp, activate it like this. It could really help the Resistance.
marcus		Thank you.
66.		CONTINUED:
67.		CONTINUED:
68.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Don't mention it.
69.		CONTINUED:
70.		CONTINUED:
71.		CONTINUED:
72.		CONTINUED:
connor		I need to talk to the prisoner.
connor		Lieutenant Williams. I'm sorry about the way you've been treated, but we're forced to take every precaution. I'm John Connor.
blair		Sir.
connor		At ease.   Please, sit.
73.		CONTINUED:
blair		Sir-- he isn't a terminator.     He's human.
connor		We know he's crossed into Skynet territory, why would he do that if he isn't--
blair		He's trying to find his friends.
connor		What friends?
blair		A couple of kids. They were taken in a Skynet transport, probably to some kind of prison camp-- he said their names were Star and Kyle.
connor		Kyle.
blair		Mm... Kyle something.    With an `R.'
connor		Reese.
blair		That's it.     How did you...?
74.		CONTINUED: 
kate		What is it, John?
connor		I always knew I'd have to find him someday. I just didn't know how.
kate		What?   Find who?
connor		My father.
75.		CONTINUED:
star		Oh no, oh no...
kyle		Shh, keep singing.
star		Up above the world so high, like a diamond in the sky...
kyle		Stop it stop it STOP IT!
76.		CONTINUED:
77.		CONTINUED:
jeremy		Are you all right?
marcus		What the hell is this?
jeremy		You look like you've been hit by a truck--
marcus		Among other things. Look, I'm trying to find some friends-- a couple of kids. They were taken here, I saw some buildings--
jeremy		The facility, sure.   Hop in, I'll take you there.
marcus		Marcus.
78.		CONTINUED: 
jeremy		I can't connect with you at all... your interface must've been damaged. Don't worry, soon they'll have you as good as new.
marcus		I didn't think there was-- anything like this left... anywhere.
jeremy		Yes.   We're very lucky.   Want some?
marcus		This isn't food.
jeremy		Well, of course not. Seems you got a little memory loss going on.
79.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Terminators!
jeremy		We don't call them that here.
marcus		What are you?
jeremy		A hybrid.    The same as you.
80.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		A hybrid-- human and machine?
jeremy		Of course. That's what this community is for-- people like us.
marcus		Jesus... why?
jeremy		You should be grateful to have been chosen.
marcus		What about the ones who weren't?
jeremy		You mean like Janet and the kids.
marcus		Your family. You lost them?
jeremy		`Cause I feel good. The interface recognizes negative emotions-- rage, grief, despair-- and stimulates positive endorphins in response. Thank God, life would be pretty unbearable otherwise, don't you think?
81.		CONTINUED:
marcus		Tell me everything.   How did you people get here?
jeremy		Most of us worked at NASA or DARPA. I was an engineer on Project Angel--
marcus		Angel-- what is it?
jeremy		Advanced Nexus of Genetic and Electronic Life-forms... A-N-G-E-L. You can stop choking me, it's not like I need to breathe.
marcus		English!
jeremy		 The goal was a superior support system for the human brain-- to go anywhere, do anything-- explore deep space, the bottom of the sea. I specialized in optics.
82.		CONTINUED: 
83.		CONTINUED:
engineer		32578 - acceptable. 32579 - no, insufficient neural capacity. 32580 - eh, this one shouldn't have even been brought here...
serena		Marcus!
84.		CONTINUED:
marcus		 It's a graveyard.
serena		There was no choice-- the old civilization had to be eliminated. To make way for a new world... a world without death or suffering.
85.		CONTINUED:
aide		Sir, I'm sorry to disturb you, but you said you wanted to know immediately--
connor		What is it?
aide		We found our terminator.
naval officer		There can't be any prisoners there. The whole area's a nuclear wasteland-- only machines can survive the radiation levels for any length of time.
connor		Mobilize a combined air and naval assault, all available resources. We're sending in a rescue team ASAP.
kate		All to find one teenage boy...? John, you really think this can work? 
86.		CONTINUED:
connor		I'm standing here, I exist-- so it must have worked. We will find him.
serena		Calm down, Marcus.   It's all right.
marcus		Like fuck it is. I'm sick of being your guinea pig, what are you doing to me now?! 
87.		CONTINUED:
serena		Repairing you.
marcus		You all work for Skynet!
serena		Please. Skynet works for us. It's only a program-- a tool, a means to an end.
marcus		The end of the world.
serena		Its sole purpose is to protect humanity.
marcus		Into-- this? A brain in a box?
serena		Skynet had access to the entire defense web-- including Project Angel. It determined hybrids were the only path to salvation.
marcus		Destroying the human race in order to save it.
88.		CONTINUED: 
serena		When the resistance attacked our installation, we were forced to self-destruct. We would have taken you with us, but we thought you were in a permanent coma...
marcus		No, stop... I don't want it! You're dead inside, all of you!
serena		We're immortal. No sane person would choose to live in pain, forever. Soon you'll understand.
89.		CONTINUED:
serena		How are you feeling, Marcus?
marcus		I'm not sure I know how to describe it.
serena		It's called happiness. You've been angry all your life. You don't know what it's like to feel... a part of something.
serena		Pure ecstasy... we can share in it together.
marcus		When I was a kid my grandmother would go on about heaven... it always sounded so boring.
serena		Were you bored just now?
90.		CONTINUED:
serena		Nanotechnology, polymimetic metals... working with Skynet, we're making amazing breakthroughs, well beyond anything possible before Judgment Day.
serena		We've already freed ourselves from biological limits... soon we'll transcend the laws of physics.
91.		CONTINUED:
marcus		A time machine... Connor was right.
serena		 The Resistance leader?   You know him?
marcus		...I've just heard him speak.
serena		He's a dangerous man. Delusional. He thinks he's a savior, but all he's really fighting for is... death.
marcus		In the world outside-- the survivors think Skynet is the enemy, out to destroy them. Why don't you tell them about all this?
serena		Not everyone can become like us, Marcus. We just don't have the resources to sustain more than a few thousand hybrids.
marcus		Then why... Some people I knew were picked up, taken here...
serena		A boy and a girl-- in the last day or two?
marcus		Yes... what is this place?
serena		Part of the neural net-- human minds linked directly with artificial intelligence. The processing power of the human brain is still beyond anything Skynet can manufacture.
marcus		That's them.
93.		CONTINUED:
serena		Good news. He'll soon be part of the network-- you'll be able to connect with him.
marcus		Of course.     I... I understand.
serena		I don't know-- I have to go.    Will you be all right?  Of course you will.
94.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		I need to go back!
physicist		The wormholing fluctuates, right now it's oscillating between three and six hours--
marcus		What do I do?
physicist		Just breach the sphere. But you could materialize anywhere in a mile radius--
95.		CONTINUED:
engineer		32581 looks good... 32582... hm, borderline. May not be emotionally compatible. Pass.
marcus		Let them go.
engineer		What?   Who are you?
marcus		I said, let them go! 
97.		CONTINUED:
engineer		You can't hurt me.
marcus		Now you're pissing me off.
98.		CONTINUED: 
kyle		No!
star		What?
kyle		Marcus!
star		I knew you'd come.
99.		CONTINUED: 
marcus		We've gotta get out of here.
marcus		Stay down!
100.		CONTINUED:
kyle		Watch me!
101.		CONTINUED:
star		That looked like--
marcus		I know.   Long story.
marcus		The trees!
102.		CONTINUED:
star		 Why don't you drive?
kyle		Come on I was doing good!
103.		CONTINUED:
kyle		Where are we going?
marcus		There.
104.		CONTINUED:
kyle		He's not real.
105.		CONTINUED:
star		Don't come any closer!
marcus		I'm sorry.
106.		CONTINUED:
marcus		There are more prisoners, a complex about a mile in--
kyle		Kyle Reese.
connor		John Connor. I'm glad you made it.
marcus		Yeah, well. Get in line.
doctor		Does this hurt?
marcus		I don't feel a thing.    Help somebody else.
kate		Your dad-- he seems like a nice kid.
connor		The last boatload is right behind me. Skynet's pouring in reinforcements, we can't hold this place. And the people in the houses, they won't leave--
marcus		They're not people anymore...
108.		CONTINUED:
serena		Why, Marcus? You were immortal...
marcus		No one lives forever.
109.		CONTINUED: 
connor		This... this can't happen...
blair		Marcus... I need to head back to my unit.
marcus		I have no idea. I should be dead...
star		But you're alive. 
110.		CONTINUED:
marcus		 So to speak.
blair		We've been ordered not to talk about it-- the hybrids, everything about that place is top secret...
marcus		Yeah, simpler to keep it man versus machine.
star		 What did it feel like?   To be... one of them?
marcus		 Better than anything. Everything made sense. For the first time in my life, I felt... right. It was heaven.
blair		How could you give that up?
marcus		I never really believed in heaven.
blair		Here.   You need these more than I do.
kate		He wants to see you.
connor		Her name was Sarah... she was... amazing...
kyle		I don't remember my mother.
connor		Keep it.
kate		Kyle, could you give us a minute?
112.		CONTINUED:
marcus		You're asking me to become...  Him?
connor		You must.
kate		 Very few people know what John actually looks like. Only the technicians and our closest advisors need ever know the truth.
marcus		Why me?
kate		Who else? Only you know the enemy from the inside. You liberated a Skynet camp... you're a hero.
connor		I never knew how I was supposed to win this war. But I finally understand: the idea of John Connor is more important than the person.  I can die. He cannot.
113.		CONTINUED: 
kate		Please.   We need you.
114.		CONTINUED:
****Dialogues from script :The_Rage__Carrie_2.txt****

black		 MUSIC UP: Slow, sad, ethereal. Perhaps even eerie.  FADE IN:  On a sea of red, filling the frame. A crimson ocean without waves or ripples.  A thick housepainter's BRUSH dips in, revealing its paint. The BRUSH is extracted, paint dripping like congealing blood. FOLLOW THE BRUSH to reveal...  INT. A HOUSE - NIGHT  A white wall, where the BRUSH is moved horizontally, leaving a thick continuous stripe, until the paint thins out. A WOMAN'S HAND plunges the BRUSH back into the paint can, then takes up creating the stripe again, painting the wall: until it reaches &pleated drape -- -- and doesn't stop. A window and another drape receive the same treatment before the BRUSH is re-dipped.  A PUPPY, a sad-eyed basset hound, sits on the floor watching, a bit perplexed. This is WALTER and even he knows this is weird. The dog looks over to...  A FOUR-YEAR-OLD GIRL standing next to him, also watching. This is RACHEL. Dark haired, in a plain dress. Her large eyes are welling on the verge of tears.  The BRUSH is dragged across the wall, hits a wooden picture frame, moves across a cheap oil painting of a pastoral, forest scene, and over the other edge of the frame.  Another ANGLE takes in the red line, five feet high, parallel to the floor, extending around a modest living room.  Painting the line is BARBARA LANG, in her thirties, yet worn, haggard- She hasn't slept in a while.  The precision of her work, her concentration, her focus, as the line runs across a wall and into a corner, is more than a little frightening.
rachel		Momma, come play with me. In my room. But her mother keeps painting across a door.
rachel		Right now, mommy, okay? BARBARA looks at her, or rather through her. And continues her task. RACHEL steps forward, tugs on her mom's
rachel		I got a idea, we could-- -- and gets , , splat, right-in the face with the brush
the kitchen		A TOY AMBULANCE sits on the floor. RACHEL's tiny hand deliberately presses a button on it. The TOY responds with a wheep whe ep siren, then:
policeman		Rachel? Rachel, are you okay? She keeps staring off, watching her mother being stuffed into the ambulance.
rachel		Momma! She starts towards her, but the OFFICER holds her back.
policeman		Honey, she just has to go somewhere, to get some rest, so she'll feel better. As the AMBULANCE pulls away, RACHEL catches a glimpse of her mother in the rear windows, watching her.
policeman		is your dad around? When's he get home from work? I don't have a dad. The POLICEMAN collects himself.
policeman		Okay. Then we're going to take you someplace nice, with a family, a really nice family, till we get all this sorted out.
rachel		She breaks free, races into.
her room		She spins, frightened by the door that closed behind her. To her left... A WINDOW crashes shut, startling her. Then, like a wave moving in a circle around her, another WINDOW bangs down, a DOOR slams shut, another WINDOW. Scared, RACHEL backs into
a closet		where she finds WALTER huddling and cradles him in her arms. The CLOSET DOOR swings shut, sealing her off from the world.
from above		In the dark, RACHEL is in a fetal position on the floor, dry eyed, in shock, curled around her puppy. There's the far-off sound of POUNDING on a door.
rachel		joy.
cut to		BLACK. A SUPER burns in:
emilyn		Graveyard shift, again.
boyd		 Daytime, yes; nighttime, no. We've been over this ground. I only brought him in this morning. No juice?
emilyn		We're out of a lot of things.
boyd		 You watch that voice in this house. While you're here, you'll respect her as your mother, and treat her as such.
rachel		 Sorry. She picks through her cold cereal in silence.
emilyn		Your mom's making progress isn't she, on the new medicacions, the tricyclics?
rachel		Yes, ma'am.
rachel		Yes, sir.
rachel		Later, Walt. On WALTER, bummed.
rachel		She speaks. She opens her mouth and sounds come out. The sounds are words. LTA gives her a Cheshire cat grin.
lisa		What's wrong, fcscer-dad bein' a pain again?
rachel		Why are you so weiz.ly happy?
lisa		o I look any different?
rachel		Do you look any...
lisa		Yep. With who?
lisa		You'd never believe me if I told you. I'm bringing him to lunch.
rachel		C'mon. ' 1 Fess up.
lisa		All will be revealed in due time. RACHEL pulls out a worn Anne Rice paperback from her ba gives it to LISA.
rachel		You suck.
lisa		I love you too. Simultaneously, they bite their thumbs, then press them together; a pantomime of blood sisters.
arnie		Hi there gruesome twosome, how 'bout a threesome?
lisa		 Lunch. Meet me in the parking lot.
the patio		a courtyard with concrete tables where the school's royalty hold court. The cleancut "Patio People" are the jocks, student government types and others who have no idea what it is to be alone on a Saturday night. At the patio is a pack of muscular jocks in football letter jackets reading "Bulldogs", some sport caps marked "Dawgs: There's JESSE RYAN, handsome, longish hair, a young Eddie Vedor if Eddie ever played football. Next to him is... MARK BING, good looking, with a body like a fist. Behind them, arrayed around a concrete table are the large, doltish BRAD, hearty rich boy CHUCK, and the arrogant ERIC. CHUCKS looks over a plain looking GIRL on the Patio.
chuck		 Hey, Mark, the girl over there, how many if I do her?
mark		She was having a bad hairday. A group of PATIO GIRLS sit at another table. Among them is MONICA, a stunning brunette, AMY a cute redhead and TRACY, an icy BLONDE who could spend all day checking her makeup. JESSE looks over. TRACY graces him with a smile and turns away. MARK leans in to JESSE.
mark		Hey, Jess. Tracy, she wants you, man. Jump her bones.
i jesse		Yeah, whatever.
chuck		What's the matter with you, she's got an ass stamped "Made in Heaven
jesse		I don't know, you ever have a conversation with her? It's like talking down a well. She only wants me cause I'm on the football team.
mark		So what? You want her to want you cause of your dazzling personality? Look, you want someone to talk to, you got us. H, you screw.
jesse		That's harsh, man, keep it down.
eric		What's a coyote date?
mark		When you wake up in the morning, and she's sleeping on your arm, and the only way to get up is to wake her. So you gnaw your arm off instead. BRAD snorts a laugh. A goatee'd ENGLISH TEACHER nods to both camps as he passes.
english teacher		Hello Montagues, hello Capulets. A BELL goes off and the STUDENTS start filing into school. LISA waves the tips of her fingers to RACHEL, bye-bye. RACHEL looks over, catches a glimpse of JESSE, across the line of demarcation. For a piece of a second it seems as if he's looking back. She drops her head, walks away.
english teacher		Okay, then how many saw the movie? A show of hands, all the girls, some of the boys.
english teacher		Now, how many read the play?
as assign		A few tentative hands, including JESSE.
english teacher		I thank you for your honesty, but I am saddened. I'd like to think we're here to study William Shakespeare, not worship at the altar of Leo DiCaprio. Scattered laughs.
english teacher		I was going to calk about the language. But since you haven't Z&&d the language, let's talk about the plot.
english teacher		Romeo and Juliet, a tale of two lovers meant for each other, pulled apart by their families, society, and, some might say, by fate.
english teacher		What are some other stories with this theme?
amy		You meair like in Dumb and when the girl's husband showed up? The TEACHER surrenders to the inevitable.
english teacher		Okay, well. Perhaps at some level we know that Lauren Holly's husband AIM to show up? What say? Anyone?
english teacher		Believe in what?
rachel		Love. JESSE looks at her, pensive.
arnie		 Love is fifteen seconds of squishing noises. Unquote. Johnny Rotten. Scattered laughs. JESSE overhears TRACY as she nods at RACHEL, whispers to AMY...
tracy		Who would love her?
english teacher		Do you think that all love stories are tragedies? I mean, unless they die at the same time, all lovers are eventually separated by death.
jesse		Well, then Romeo and Juliet isn't a tragedy, because the only way they could really be together was in death.
english teacher		Very good.  A true romantic, how refreshing. Kids scoff at JESSE, but RACHEL eyes JESSE, struck by this side of him. The BELL rings and ARNIE leads the exodus.
arnie		Food!
english teacher		Next assignment, Brave New World, the book, not the TV movie.
a stairwell		LISA ascends several flights, still brushing the wall, exiting onto the...
school's roof		She walks past a TRIO OF STUDENTS smoking near the roof's edge. Without slowing or blinking an eyelash LISA simply..
smoking girl		Did you see that?
principal		You'd better come with me, a girl just killed herself in the lot.
sue		Corns. Come with me. Let's back off. One step. Good. Let's back away. PULL BACK to see the widening circles of shock as the students of Bergen High realize what's just occurred.
sue		 Was she a friend? This is a place where you can calk about it.
sue		It's okay. Let it out.
rachel		 I never cry. Miss Snell? She was so happy this morning. I don't understand. Why would she-- The INTERCOM BOX squawks:
principal		The board of education has given us these procedures to follow. I want every teacher to read this aloud in their classrooms in ten minutes. Do not digress or become overly emotional or dramatic. His VOICE under...
principal		No memorials. No assembly. We want a return to the normal life of the school. what do we not want?
princi pal		Then let's go with the drill. A TEACHER reads from the prepared statement to her class.
teacher		One of our students died today. -- A FOREST -- Glimpses of RACHEL running through the trees. -- SUE at a microphone, reading from a sheet of paper:
sue		We will observe, at exactly two p.m... -- Her voice emanates from an INTERCOM BOX high on a classroom wall. STUDENTS bow their heads.
barbara		Yes, baby, I really am feeling so much better. I feel so good on the inside, I must be glowing on the outside.
rachel		You look great, mama.
barbara		Lord, you come all the way out here, we can't keep talking about me. How are you? I wane to hear every little thing I'm missing.
rachel		Things are really great. Last night I, um, I had this slumber party, with some girlfriends. And this morning, Mrs. Wallace made us all pancakes before school.
barbara		The Wallaces sure are a nice family.
rachel		 Oh, they are. A nice family.
barbara		What's wrong?
rachel		Nothing, I just... I miss those crepes you used to make me.
barbara		Oh, honey, those.crepes weren't nothing but watered down pancakes.  Come here baby. She gives her daughter a big hug.
barbara		Now you listen to me, the doctors say I'm doing well. You know what that means? That means someday, soon, you and I are gonna be eating crepes for breakfast, lunch and dinner. For the first time, RACHEL's smile is genuine.
rachel		That would be so great.
rachel		Yes, mama.
rachel		C'mon, c'mon. Let me out! The door buzzes and she shoves through.
waiter		Boys, what can Z get you?
mark		Hey, Al, we'll have three 1.rge pepperoni pies and two pitchers of beer.
waiter		 , Three large pizzas and cokes all around.
chuck		He scored two touchdowns on you last time, dude.
mark		Yo, Jes$, I think Tracy's following you. He pulls out the black NOTEBOOK. ERIC eyes it, gets very nervous.
mark		Now then, according to the scoreboard Jess, you'd have to bag every girl here to catch up. You need the points. I'll give ya ten for Tracy.
brad		Do her, Jess.
chuck		 Do her, do her, do her. d the others join in.
jesse		All right, all right. ERIC leans over to MARK, urgently whispers, and the two of them move to...
eric		 When Lisa asked me to lunch, she was actin' like were on the road to marriage or something. I told her to wake up, she was just a pump, a nut.
mark		And she freaked and took a header.
eric		And now I freakin.'. The Notre Dame scout's comin' Friday and it this gets out, I mean, sex and suicide? Catholic schools frown on that shit.
mark		No one knows 'bout you and her.
eric		Lisa took a picture of me with. her.
mark		Shit. Okay. I'll handle it.
eric		How?
mark		Eric, relax, its me, Mark. I'll handle it. The WAITER sets a pitcher of soda and cups on the table. AT THE BAR -- MR. STARK, a rotund lawyer in his 40's, takes a pitcher of beer from the BARTENDER.
bartenler		I don't see nuthin'. STARK strolls to the booth with the pitcher in hand. He sits, hiding the pitcher below table level.
stark		Hello, boys.
eric		Hi, dad. STARK winks, takes MARK's empty cup and fills it with beer below the table.
stark		Great game last week. All of us on the town council are awful proud. He hands MARK the cup under the table and takes JESSE's cup. The PLAYERS smile at each other.
stark		So, the Bulldogs bringing home the state championship again this year?
mark		Absolutely. We're gonna crush Carlin Friday and make it seven years in a'row.
stark		That's what I like to hear.
mark		 It's good to be king.
sue		What is it?
jesse		Sorry, didn't scare you, did I? RACHEL turns, slides LISA's PICTURES into an envelope. MARK checks her out, likes what.he sees, nudges JESSE.
jesse		You're... Rachel, right? She nods, surprised he knows she's alive, much less knows her name.
jesse		I'm Jesse.
rachel		Uh-huh. The true romantic. MARK leans over JESSE, his voice low now, intimate.
mark		So, Rachel, there were some pictures Lisa took. They have, what you might call sentimental value. She just stares at him. MARK pulls a twenty from his wallet.
mark		Twenty bucks cover it?
rachel		No.
mark		What do you mean? I'll go thirty.
rachel		They're not your pictures.
mark		Well it's not like she's gonna be picking them up, is it? RACHEL turns away. JESSE glares at MARK.
jesse		Hey, cool. it.
mark		 Rachel, why don't I come by when you get off and, you know, take you for a ride? JESSE cocks an ear for her reply, but she doesn't answer.
t mark		C'mon, I don't bite... not unless you want me to.
rachel		I don't think so.
mark		Why not?
mark		Let's go, Jess. The car pulls away, MARK glances in the REARVIEW MIRROR at RACHEL, framed like a target.
mark		 Bitch. I'll show you funny. ON RACHEL -- watching them go. Seconds later, a SHERIFF'S CRUISER pulls up.
kelton		Hi. He holds out Lisa's PHOTO STUB. RACHEL takes it, sees the name, her eyes widen.
jesse		I'm sorry, it's not you. its me.
tracy		It's okay. You should save your energy for the game anyway. JESSE opens the door, stands outside, tucking in his shirt. MARK and CHUCK make a crude humping gesture to JESSE. He hesitates, then nods at them. MARK pulls out the SCOREBOARD and enters JESSE's name with
mark		He shoots, he scores. ON TRACY -- in the front seat, using the rearview to adjust her makeup, pleased with what she sees. She glances at JESSE as he re-enters on the driver's side.
tracy		What are you thinking about?
jesse		Nobody.
tracy		I asked what, not who.
jesse		Oh. Nothing.
tracy		Why? She wasn't anybody.
jesse		What?
tracy		I mean, I didn't know her.
the kitchen		.and the spoons and dishes stop vibrating.
rachel		 Daddy's home. She walks to her bedroom and closes the door.
boyd		Come back here, mutt.
rachel		Walter! And she breaks into a run. WALTER looks back, starts running, this is all fun for him. There's the low BLEAT of a TRUCK'S HORN and then... The high, piercing SQUEAL of a wounded animal. In the road, WALTER, laying flat, keening in pain. She runs to him and in one continuous motion SCOOPS him into her arms. RACHEL, in the middle of the two lanes. She turns as.__
headlights		approach, fast.
rachel		Help me! Please! It speeds past, dangerously close. Another set of LIGHTS.
rachel		Stop! Please, stop! But the CAR passes, blaring its horn. She spins,around. is bearing down on her. She holds her ground.
rachel		THE CAR'S WINDSHIELD -- CRACKS, crazes, as if it hit with a sharp, fierce projectile. THE CAR -- lays down rubber as it screeches to a halt. JESSE is at the wheel. Sees through the crazed windshield: RACHEL, splattered with dog's blood. He gets out, stares at his'windshield, shaken-up, groping for some explanation.
jesse		Damn. What... damn. RACHEL staggers up to him, holding a shivering mass of fur.
jesse		Oh, my god.
rachel		It's my fault. He should have been in bed with me.
jesse		Everything's gonna be all right. His voice is not entirely convincing.
rachel		His name's Walter. will he be all right? The VET's intensely focused on inserting an I.V. into the dog.
vet		You two had best wait outside.
jesse		Let's go. Best thing's to let her do her work. JESSE gently guides RACHEL away, who keeps looking back at her dog.
jesse		Your dog's gonna be okay. She nods, unconvinced.
jesse		God, I almost roadkilled you. Are you sure you're all right? She nods. They hear a muffled, "pmt", from the VET in the examining room. JESSE tries to take RACHEL's mind off it.
jesse		That tattoo on your arm, its pretty. Hurt a lot when you got it?
rachel		some.
jesse		Yeah?
rachel		But it's... you know, like the song says, you hurt yourself to see if you can still feel.
jesse		For what?
rachel		For making you--
jesse		No problem. Glad to help, you know.
rachel		And I'm sorry about your windshield, about your car.
jesse		How bizarre was that,, huh? Anyway, wasn't your fault.
rachel		You can be sorry for things that aren't your fault. The VET enters, drying her hands. RACHEL sits up, bracing herself for the bad news. JESSE puts an arm around her seat back, getting ready to hold her.
vet		Walter's banged up pretty bad, lost quite a bit of blood, but he's gonna make it.
rachel		Can I see him?
vet		Come back tomorrow, any time after eight.
jesse		Better. You don't look like a mass- murderer now. She smiles, sips a coffee. A country song comes on the jukebox.
jesse		Wow, this music. Guess we should just count ourselves lucky it ain't Hanson.
rachel		 Lisa hLUd them.
jesse		She was a friend of yours? She nods.
jesse		really sorry.
rachel		Sometimes I'd see someone, from behind, and I'd know, I'd just know, it was Lisa. And then she'd turn ound, and it wasn't. But sometimes, you know, it was. And now...
jesse		 Wow. It's late. "ve got football practice tomorrow.
rachel		I know. I hope I didn't ru;.n
jesse		No, if it wasn't for you I wouldn't have had this nutritious medl,
rachel		You're very polite, for a jock.
jesse		The compliments, they just keep on comin'. He drops some money on the table.
rachel		I don't have any--
jesse		's cool, I got it. Can I give you a Et home or something? I can walk
jesse		Yeah, right.
rachel		Or hitchhike.
jesse		Right.
rachel		Thank you. For everything.
jesse		I guess I'll see you in school tomorrow?
rachel		Sure.
jesse		You'll let me know how Walter's doing?
rachel		Yeah.
jesse		Good night. He extends his hand. She takes it. 3i2! The SHOCK of static electricity. Their words are simultaneous.
rachel		Dry weather.
jesse		Acrylic sweater. They both laugh. Then go quiet. Then just stare at each other. Then the moment is gone. RACHEL gets out of the car, through the gate, back inside her house. JESSE watches her go. Starts his engine, and his car
rachel		Lisa don't! Somebody stop her! Stop! SLOW MOTION -- LISA falls through the air towards the car, arms outstretched, hair trailing like black flames. SMASH -- she goes through the windshield, but the face is
kelton		"Eric lied when he said I was special. And I guess I was lying to myself when I believed him." He folds the note.
sue		Rachel, is there anything in there that strikes a chord for you? Do you know what Lisa was referring to?
rachel		 Yesterday morning, she told me she'd, uh, lost her virginity. KELTON looks at SUE, produces the photo of LISA with ERIC.
kelton		You recognize this boy?
rachel		Sure. Eric Stark. He's on the team. KELTON gestures to SUE and they step out into...
the hallway		with another "Heat Carlin!" banner in the background.
kelton		What do you think?
sue		Robbie, I had a Freshman crying in the hall last week. I couldn't get anything out of her, but her friend told me a football player slept with her, then dumped her.
kelton		Nothing illegal about breaking a girl's heart.
sue		Eric's 18. Lisa was 15. That's statutory rape.
kelton		That's a stretch.
sue		Then let's make it. I don't know what's going on around here, but if that's what it takes to stop it, let's stop it, before someone else's daughter kills herself.
kelton		All right. I'll look into it.
the office		SUE sits behind her desk, with RACHEL before her.
sue		How are you feeling?
rachel		okay. Fine. Can I go no SUE opens a file on her desk.
sue		I was looking at chic last night. it says here your mom's in Arkham.
rachel		She's gonna be fine.
sue		I spent some time up there. As a patient. RACHEL looks surprised.
sue		Does that surprise you?
rachel		I guess. I mean, you seem pretty normal.
sue		Thanks. i try. You visit your moat often?
sue		Is that scary for you?
rachel		Why?
sue		Well, children of schizophrenics sometimes live with the fear of it happening to them. At your age, it's perfectly normal to be afraid of turning out like your parents.
rachel		Normal, huh? Get real, I know I'm ten times more likely to get it than most people.
sue		You're right. I'm sorry. So. You've been in a series of foster homes since you were, what, four?
sue		How's your foster family?
rachel		They're happy, - 'z-rig as they get their check every month.
sue		What about your real father?
rachel		Never met the gentleman. My mom won't even tell me his name. RACHEL stares at a ceramic MUG of coffee, very close o the edge of the desk.
sue		Rachel, in a way, you've lost your mother. And now you've lost a friend. Losing someone can be a very lonely, painful place to be.
sue		I really do care. How can I show you that I do? RACHEL is silent, staring at the MUG.
sue		Rachel? But RACHEL's shut off, pushing down a storm of emotions.
sue		You know, this room is a place where if you have feelings, you can talk about them. You can let them out. RACHEL shifts. SUE sees RACHEL's forearm near the coffee MUG. And, as if by proximity alone, it EDGES off the end of the desk -- And FALLS -- RACHEL catches it in one smooth motion just before it hits.
rachel		sorry. I must've knocked it. SUE, the color draining from her face.
sue		I didn't... see you knock it.
principal		Sue, could you update the absentee lists, see who we have to call?
jesse		Hi. How's Walter?
rachel		What do you wane from me?
jesse		I just wanted to, you know, see how you're doing. Over his shoulder she can see the stir his presence aC Freak Hall is causing among...
monica		Look at Jesse, talking to a burnout. TRACY turns, slips on a stylish pair of DKNY glasses.
tracy		She's not very good in daylight is she? wonder where she keeps her coffin.
jesse		So you'll meet me tonight, at the
rachel		--yeah. Okay.
jesse		 Okay. See you. Tonight. ARNIE sees the Patio Girls glancing at RACHEL. She sits an ARNIE nudges her.
arnie		What'd he want?
rachel		He asked me out.
arnie		What'd you say?
rachel		I said, "Okay, its your funeral."
arnie		Pardon me, but is hanging out with jockboy such a hot idea? I mean,
rachel		She's beautiful.
arnie		Duh.
walsh		Here, we can see mark Sing kissing an opposing player good-bye. There are hoots of derision from the other PLAYERS. MARK nods. ERIC leans into MARK, speaks low.
eric		You didn't get the picture?
mark		Bitch wouldn't give it to me. Stay frosty, no one else knows anything. It's still at the photomat, I'll get it.
walsh		C'mon girls, those are love taps!  Potter, show me you're a dog.
chuck		Aww, coach.
walsh		You know the drill. The other PLAYERS begin a BARKING CHANT. CHUCK strips off his helmet, jogs to the bench and opens a styrofoam cooler, within it are slabs of raw steak on blood soaked ice..
walsh		Show me you're a dog, Potter. The barking rises as the PLAYERS psyche up CHUCK, who chews off a bite of the raw meat. JESSE whispers to MARK...
jesse		I hate this bullshit.
mark		Not me. I love it. MARK pops up, grabs a steak, rips off a bite, and runs full tilt at the, blocking tackle, smashing into it with meaning.
walsh		You're a piece of work, Bing. MARK takes a bow as he jogs away, chewing. He spots the SHERIFF's CRUISER pulling --p to the practice field.
kelton		So, you're saying you never met or talked to Lisa Parker?
eric		No, sir. Never. KELTON produces the photo of LISA and ERIC.
mark		What happened?
mark		Relax, that's bullshit. Your dad's a lawyer, he'll kill that talk dead.
eric		So I'm suspended. And Coach, Coach he up and does this scene where he says, "give me your helmet."
mark		What about Carlin?
eric		What about Carlin? Game of the year, football scouts are gonna be there and I'm gonna be sittin' on the bench with my thumb up my...  You said you were gonna get the pictures.
mark		I tried. That Rachel bitch wouldn't give'em to me..
eric		She's the one who put me and Lisa together. Shit. what are we gonna do, Mark?
brad		Who's place is this, again?
chuck		Nimrod. It's Carlin's quarterback. MARK and ERIC pull up in Mark's Mustang convertible.
rachel		jy are going to be late. She hears her doorbell go off.
rachel		What'd you forget your-- There's nobody there.
living room		As she crosses back to her room. There's a KNOCKING on the kitchen back door. She frowns, goes to the back door, looks through the glass. No one there either. Now she's worried.
rachel		Oh, god, oh, god. Not now. Stop Suddenly all goes silent. She jumps as... The PHONE RINGS near her. She scoops up the cordless. Beat.
rachel		Hello?
rachel		Knock it off. Is this you, Arnie?
rachel		What do you want?
bulldogs		Rachel! Rachel! Rachel! MARK  Rachel, come out and play now. RACHEL grabs a knife from the kitchen, backs into...
her bedroom		where a bandaged WALTER is on the bed, looking alarmed. RACHEL keeps backing up, nearing her open closet door.
rachel		I'm calling the police. She hangs up, dials 911, fumbling with the knife.
rachel		No! The WINDOW SMASHES down on the intruder's HAND. There's a muffled YELL outside and the HAND is extracted.
boyd		What's wrong?
rachel		Nothing. She retreats into her bedroom, looks at the Window. The PHONE RINGS in her hand. She answers.
emilyn		Hello... just a second. Rachel?
rachel		curled on her bed with WALTER, calls out:
rachel		I'm not here.
jesse		Okay. Thank you, then. He hangs up. Checks his watch. Waits.
tracy		Carlin creeps! At Freak Hall, ARNIE rises, wipes egg yolk from his hair.
jesse		Hey, what happened to you last night? I waited.
rachel		You tell me what happened last night.
jesse		What? ON RACHEL and JESSE as she tells him what happened last night. He gets more and more agitated. TRACY is wearing her glasses as she and MONICA watch JESSE from the Patio.
tracy		What is wrong with this movie: does he see in her?
monica		Come on Trace, you're caviar, she's cheeze whiz. He'll come around. He's just letting little Jesse do the thinking for big Jesse. BACK TO -- A pissed-off JESSE.
jesse		Okay, don't worry, I'll talk to Mark, I'll take care of it
jesse		All what?
rachel		I mean, guys like you are supposed to date girls like Tracy.
jesse		I'm picking you up tonight. We're gonna have a nice, mellow date. RACHEL stands, silent, torn. The BELL RINGS, everybody starts filing in.. She moves, he smiles, blocks her way.
jesse		I'm not going anywhere till you say yes.
rachel		 Yes. JESSE lets her pass, with a chivalrous after-you sweep of his hand, then falls in next to her. RACHEL'S arm is grabbed by...
rachel		What are those, tonight's Top-Ten list?
sue		These are just an exercise that will let me know how to help you better.
rachel		You're wasting your time.
sue		Just answer true or false to these statements.  "There's a man inside the television set who tells me what to do."
rachel		False. I don't see the point-
sue		"Sometimes my thoughts assume the form of a giant insect."
rachel		This ddesn't make any sense.
sue		Answer true or false and this won't take all day. Again: "Sometimes my
rachel		False. She sets down the SNOW DOME.
sue		"If you want to play the piano well, you have to practice."
rachel		True.
sue		"I can see sounds and hear colors."
rachel		False.
sue		"Large furry animals crawl on my face every night while I sleep."
rachel		True.
rachel		I have a dog. SUE nods, watches RACHEL closely as she takes her time with this one, not reading off a card.
sue		Sometimes I can move things with my thoughts. Beat. RACHEL stares at her, a million thoughts racing. Another beat. The only sound is the clock ticking on SUE's desk. RACHEL grabs her backpack and stands.
sue		Honey, sit down. I just want to hel
rachel		--and fuck you. You're not my mother! RACHEL turns to go. SUE jumps up, grabs her arm, and...
walsh		What was that? 'hat are you, Miss Manners? Show me you're a dog, Ryan. JESSE looks at the styrofoam cooler on the bench. A few of the nearby PLAYERS begin their barking chant.
jesse		Can't, Coach.
walsh		Say what? The barking trails off. The other boys are stunned.
brad		Oh, shit.
jesse		Well, I'm not a dog today, Coach, I'm a vegetarian.
walsh		Since when? Don't give me that. Show me you're a dog, Ryan.
jesse		Sorry, Coach. No can do.
walsh		Your attitude sucks. Hit the showers. Get outta my sight. JESSE doffs his helmet, jogs to the bench. He douses his head with water, sits there, looking angry.
mark		Brad, how many points he gonna get for straightening a dyke?
brad		Twenty, no, thirty. They fingertip high-five each other.
brad		Jess, you score the skank yet? JESSE just glares at him, walks away.
mark		What's with him?
brad		Must be that time of the month.
mark		Jess, what's the matter?
jesse		You. What's with the stunt you pulled last night?
mark		What? Papering McCabe's house? I asked you if you--
jesse		What you did at Rachel's.
mark		what? We were just sendin' her a message. JESSE slams his locker closed.
jesse		Tell me, I'll pass it on.
mark		Look, man. She's getting Eric in all kinds a shit. I mean, if he gets charged with rape, there goes any
jesse		Screw Eric, he's a big boy. He made his own decisions, he's gotta live with 'em. And stay away from Rachel, or deal with me.
mark		What are you getting bent for? She's just a burnout, a slut-- BANG as JESSE shoves MARK against a locker. MARK shoves him back. The rest of the PLAYERS in the background go quiet.
jesse		 Don't call her a skank, don't call her a slut.
mark		What's wrong with you?
jesse		We screw with girls, use them, because it makes us feel like big men--
mark		Get to the bad part.
mark		What are you talking about? We're friends, we're all friends.
jesse		No. We just grew up together. And he walks away. On MARK. Pissed. He sees JESSE left his letter jacket behind, hanging on the locker.
rachel		Mama, what was it like? WhEn you started to... when things went bad. What did it feel like, what did you see?
rachel		Did you see things move by themselves? Please, mama. I have to know.
barbara		 Well, first, I thought I saw the devil in your eyes. Then I started to see people's faces looking... deformed, like they'd had plastic surgery, or the bones were moving under their skin.
barbara		There is something different about you. Baby, are you all right? Yeah. Yes. Everything's fine. Everything's gonna be all right.
hospital hallway		A BUZZ and as RACHEL leaves, she smiles at. sitting on the couch. BARBARA shifts slightly, looks at a CHROME CHAIR across from her.
her face		is illuminated from below by the view screen. And now: She stops on a NEWSPAPER front page: CHAMBERLAIN RECORDER. May,-1976. With a PHOTO of C ' RIK W iITE at age seventeen. The headline identifies her as the girl thought responsible for the arson at Chamberlain High School which killed 73 people. The text below the photo states that ga1nh White is the ,father of Carrie White.
a hand		grabs her forearm. SUE jerks. Looks up.
library matron		The library is closing.
sue		I'm here to see Barbara Lang.
nurse		Stay here, I'll get her. SUE looks around. This place holds a lot of bad memories. DOCTOR NELSON, SO's, an overworked-underpaid psychiatrist approaches with a smiling MALE PATIENT.
doctor		Suzy? Suzy Snell?
sue		Hello, Doctor Nelson.
doctor		Suzy Snell, one of my rare success stories. What brings you back?
sue		I'm visiting the mother of one of my students.
doctor		I heard about the good work you're doing at the high school. The PATIENT turns and softly starts thudding his forehead against the wall. The DOCTOR casually pulls him away before he can harm himself.
barbara		Thank you for the chocolates. Thoughtful of you.
barbara		Why would she need to? Hrs. Lang, I need to know who he was.
barbara		sorry, that's private.
sue		Mrs. Lang, it's important that I know his name.
barbara		I really don't see how that's any of your business.
sue		I promise you, I'll keep the information in the strictest confidence. BARBARA just looks at her, chewing.
sue		I'm just trying to help Rachel. She seems very troubled and I'm worried about her.
sue		I am. Yes.
barbara		You don't have children, do you, miss?
sue		No. No I don't. BARBARA laughs. almost hysterically. SUE's thrown. BARBARA regains herself, then, with tremendous conviction...
barbara		Then you don't kzgx. You will never ever know, how terrifying children can be. SUE, frustrated, it's like punching water with this wo
sue		Rachel needs my help. She...
sue		So they are half-sisters.
jesse		You are good. I'm impressed.
rachel		My foster-dad taught me on his semi truck. Where we going?
jesse		Before he sold cars, my dad wanted to write this book: One Hundred Senators Pick Their Favorite Restaurants.' So, he wrote, to all of them.
rachel		All of them?
jesse		Dear Senator So-and-so, I am writing a book.
rachel		Anybody answer?
jesse		Yes. No. Sort of. She laughs.
jesse		He got two letters back. one was a form letter which said, 'Thank you for your support.'
rachel		And the other?
jesse		The other was from Hubert Humphrey.
rachel		Who?
jesse		He was the vice-President once. He wrote back a three page letter, raving about a place called Wally's Burger Hut. My dad was knocked-out.
rachel		So your dad wrote a book, color me impressed.
jesse		He never wrote it. Or he was going to, and then my sister was born, and then I was born. And there was this car dealership, and it was security. So your dad wanted to be a writer. How'd his kid end up being this sweaty armpit jock?
rachel		And you like that.
jesse		Yeah, I love it. Except. My dad. He's got my life all mapped out. He wants me to take over the business.
rachel		What's wrong with that? Sounds like a nice life.
jesse		Selling used cars is not what I want. And, unless I nail that football scholarship,' that's what I'll get.
rachel		It's not so great. Sometimes I wish I could just be one of the shiny, happy people. Does that surprise you?
jesse		Everything about you surprises me. There's the soft pops of rain hitting the car as it begins to drizzle, then it comes down hard.
rachel		He had a talent. You. You got football. It'll get you outta this place. You can make your own path after that. Write your own book.
jesse		Yeah? Want to come with me? She smiles. He leans forward. And she pulls away-, afraid, then decides to let him. They kiss. Then she pulls away.
jesse		What?
hel		This... She indicates the gear shift.
hel		is poking me right in the ribs. JE55E's eyes flicker to the back seat.
rachel		Um, I don't know how to say this.
jesse		Yeah?
rachel		But I've never...
jesse		Oh.
rachel		And, I'd want it to be special. Like you ring the doorbell, with flowers in your hand.
jesse		Right. So... what's your favorite flower?
jesse		--later. She pulls away, exits, closes the door for the--
rachel's hands		suddenly sink into the flesh of JESSE's chest. She SCREAMS as she tries to extract them,. but strips of his flesh stick to her like flypaper. RACHEL twists violently as her torso melds into his. Their bodies fuse, a grotesque apparition with four legs and two heads. Her mouth presses into his as their faces merge. The ring of fire leaps inward, consuming the bed.
jesse		So, you're coming to the game, right?
rachel		I don't really get football.
jesse		C'mon. I need you, for good luck.
rachel		All right. I'll be there.
jesse		Good. I have practice today, but I can pick you up later, seven thirty?
rachel		Sure, go practice. Go be great. Live the life you want.
jesse		What kind of life do you want?
jesse		Well if you can't, I'll do it for you.
rachel		What do you mean?
jesse		I will predict your future.
rachel		Uh-huh. Can I get a hint?
jesse		'm in it. ON THE PATIO -- are TRACY, MARK and MONICA, watching the.
tracy		If he's gonna do it, you know, be seen talking in public with someone else, he should show some respect.  He should show me the respect, at least, to be seen with someone pretty. Someone cool. Someone who counts. Amy or you, you know, ate. Instead, it's Its. And I feel...
monica		Disrespected?
tracy		That's right. I wish there was something I could do to make him come to his senses. On MARK's face, a slow, insidious grin that seems to spread into eternity appears.
tracy		What?
mark		Let's nail the bitch. Plan a way to screw her like she's screwing us. .TRACY, a wicked smile as she nods.
sue		I haven't really been here in over twenty years. But it feels like I've been back here every day since.
rachel		Happy homecoming. Can we go? This place is spooky. Gives me the creeps.
sue		Do you know what happened here?
rachel		You just said. A fire.
sue		What caused it?
rachel		They think a boiler blew up, okay? Am I gonna be graded on this?
sue		Come on, you've heard of Carrie White.
rachel		 Everybody has.
sue		And?
sue		We both saw it. RACHEL looks at her, isn't going to talk about this.
sue		I know everything there is to know about Carrie White. She did this. It began with what you did, with the snow dome. Then it got out of control.
sue		It's a genetic recessive trait. The male is the carrier, when he combines with the right female, the trait surfaces in their offspring, usually in women. Like King's Disease, hemophilia.
rachel		What are you saying I have?
sue		Its a trait, Rachel, you inherited. Telekinesis.
rachel		With all respect, lady, you're seriously bat-shit. I'm walking, back to the real world. SUE's voice is low, quiet.
sue		Your mother told me your father was Ralph White. Carrie's father. It stops RACHEL in her tracks.
rachel		I don't believe you. She never told me, why would she tell you?
sue		You need help-- Like what? Like they helped you?
sue		Yes. No.
rachel		So then it's Arkham for me?
sue		No. I can help you, get it under control.
rachel		You want to know what I'm feeling today? `Happy. Happier than I've ever been. So I don't want or need your help. RACHEL runs off. SUE follows, trips on the rubble, falls.
sue		Rachel!
mark		Hey.  Just wanted to say two things. I'm sorry. Maybe I overreacted.
jesse		Don't play with me.
mark		I'm not. We've been friends since we could both pee standing up. And I thought we'd be best friends forever.
jesse		 Keep going.
mark		I'm sorry.
jesse		I'm not the one you should be apologizing to.
mark		You're right. I'll come up with a way to make it up, to b of you.  tryin', brother, I'm tryin'.
stark		You're not really thinking of pressing charges against my son.
walsh		I need the boy for the game.
stark		Robbie, we've known each other a long time, since you were a Bulldog.
kelton		Save it, Lou. Sue Snell told me there were other girls--
walsh		Those kinds of girls know what they're getting in to. Eric's a good kid, he may be guilty of some youthful
kelton		Youthful transgressions? A girl killed herself.
mayor		Sit, everybody, sit, 'm just listening in. He leans against the desk, arms folded..
stark		He hasn't done anything other boys on the team haven't done. Eric can even get proof of it. Mark Bing, Jesse Ryan, Chuck Potter, Brad Winters.
mayor		Well. I think that about sums it up. He looks at the D.A., as if to give him his cue.
mayor		Lou, thank you for coming in. I'll walk you out.
mark		Hey, man, I got it. This girl, this Rachel, is special to you, huh?
jesse		Yeah. MARK extracts a KEY RING from his jacket, pulls a KEY off.
mark		The cabin. My folks aren't there. Get away from all of us idiots. Go have a romantic time. JESSE looks at him. MARK tosses the key, JESSE catches it. MARK smiles.
mark		And bring her to my party. I'll show you we can be one big, happy family.
monica		Finally, she's going into the mall.
tracy		 Perfect. We have the homefield advantage.
rachel		 You're normal. At the end of the counter, the PERFUME WOMAN approaches a SALESWOMAN helping MONICA.
perfume		Karen, watch the girl in black, make sure she doesn't pocket anything. MONICA turns around to see... RACHEL -- staring at a row of-lipsticks. She's startled
saleswoman		Can I help you?
rachel		Uh, just looking. The woman gives her a smile of devastating insincerity, crosses her arms and just stands there. RACHEL gets her drift. MONICA walks up behind RA
monica		Oh, hi. Karen, this is a friend of mine from school. The SALESWOMAN nods, moves away.
rachel		Thought she was gonna frisk me.
monica		She does Step Class with my mom.
monica		What are you looking for?
rachel		Nothing. Just lookin'.
monica		Is it perhaps, something to wear on a date? Perhaps with a certain jock- hunk we all know?
rachel		 No.
monica		You know, Tracy isn't universally loved.
rachel		There's a shock.
monica		Exhibit A. I think she's a Melrose Place superbitch. RACHEL cracks a hint of a smile.
monica		You have great lips.
monica		Trust me. See, Tracy tried to steal Brad from me. Now hold still. And RACHEL does.
monica		So, he invite you to the game? Just nod. RACHEL nods.
monica		Well, there's a big party after. I hope you can go. I know it would mean a lot to Jesse if we all got along.
rachel		Uh-huh.
monica		Good. See? Checking in a mirror, RACHEL sees she's right.
monica		Here, these two would also rock on you. The SALESWOMAN reappears.
saleswoman		Can I ring those up?
rachel		Um, sure. How much are these?
saleswoman		Twenty-two fifty. Each. RACHEL sets the lipsticks down. MONICA smiles at the
monica		Maybe next time. Bye. She pulls RACHEL away. As they walk the SALESWOMAN keeps looking at RACHEL with distaste.
monica		 Here, I kleptoed it for you. She slips RACHEL the lipstick.
jesse		What happened to that little thing you wear, that, uh... He gestures to hib'nose, indicating her stud.
rachel		Took it off.
jesse		Too bad. I like it. It's different. RACHEL looks at the car seat. On it are DAISIES.
jesse		It was nice of mark to lend us the place. He's really tryin' to make peace. Invited .s to his party. But we won't go if y;,u,d be uncomfortable.
rachel		No. Let's go.
jesse		Great.  What's wrong?
rachel		I feel like.., we're being watched. She looks up at the MOOSE HEAD's MARBLE EYES, reflecting firelight. JESSE drapes his jacket over the MOOSE HEAD.
jesse		Sorry, Bullwinkle, lights out.  Feel better?
rachel		Feel scared.
jesse		Funny. He too., He leans in to her. She backs away, like a skittish doe.
rachel		I'm sorry, I just feel... weird. I don't know. Oh, wow, I am really losing my mind here.
jesse		It's okay. Rachel, it's okay. It doesn't have to be tonight. Whenever you're ready. And, hey, you know what, you're the sanest person I know. And that's exactly what she needed to hear. She cups the back of his neck and pulls his lips to hers. They kiss; a deep, healing kiss.
her hand		brushes aside one of the straps to her dress,, which slips off her shoulder. JESSE tenderly runs his hand over her HEART-THORN TATTOO.
rachel asleep		seems peaceful, holding on to JESSE like a child, they're covered by the chenille spread. Their sweat clings to them like the softest of prisons. He's awake, studying her. He gently runs his fingertips across her brow.
boyd		You were out all night. RACHEL nods, defiantly. He walks over to her and, without warning, slaps her.
boyd		You're grounded. No school today. You don't move from this room. He turns on his heel, walks out. The dog looks as stricken as she does.
sue		Rachel needs help. She doesn't believe me and I'm afraid for her. I want you to tell her who her father was. Why?
sue		She'll believe it from your lips. Mrs. Lang, I really need your help, before it's too late. I can take you to her. Will you help me? BARBARA slowly nods, yes.
monica		Rachel, Rach, over here. Hey. Grab a seat. Looking around, RACHEL sees she's surrounded by Patio People.
rachel		Thanks, but...
monica		Oh, please, you're.not gonna sit by your lonesome. There's plenty of room, if Amy;here slides her bubble butt.
chuck		We did it for the big game.
mark		C'mon, Jess, you're up. JESSE stares in horror at how identical they all look now. Then he starts to... giggle, then breaks into laughter, turns and walks away.
monica		No, no, it's an extra point when you score the kick after the touchdown. A safety is when you get tackled with the ball in your own end zone.
rachel		Thought that was a bunt. What?
rachel		I'm kidding, I'm kidding.
monica		Okay, listen. Here's what Brad told me to say, doesn't matter if something good or bad happens, just say "You. gotta be fuckin' kiddin' mel" No matter what, just say that. It'll sound like you know what's going on.
jesse		on the sideline bench. He scans the crowd behind him, sees. A NOTRE DAME SCOUT, wearing a "Fighting Irish jacket, toting a clipboard. JESSE then spots RACHEL in the stands, gives her a reassuring grin. She glances at the SCOUT, smiles back at JESSE. TRACY sees them, is none too happy. SLOW MOTION -- A whistle sounds as a FOOTBALL is kicked to start the game. The BALL spins end over end until...
rachel		Do they have to hit him that hard?
monica		Amy, Rachel's worried about Jesse.
amy		Don't worry, i always looks worse than it really
doctor		Well... I understand you need to take out Mrs. Lang, to do a drug-abuse intervention with her daughter. But while she's doing well, her condition may be fragile.
doctor		Hold on. You have a bunch of release forms to sign. I'll go get them. On SUE, sitting, knowing she-may be running out of time.
rachel		Oh, no. RACHEL strains to see him as the team circles around JESSE.
rachel		Thank, God. He's okay.
ra		Look out !
walsh		Ryan, Notre Dame scout's-here, wants to talk to you first. JESSE nods, turns to BRAD.
jesse		Brad, can you tell Rachel I'll be out soon? Have her wait for me.
brad		It's gonna be a while, Jess is talkin' to the scout, he said for you to go ahead to the party.
rachel		Yeah.
monica		C'mon, I'll give you a ride to Mark's.
barbara		No, this couldn't be it. Rachel said it was a real nice house, surrounded by trees, with a pool in the back.
sue		I guess she didn't want to worry you.
chuck		Careful! Don't break anything, or Mark'll have my head on,a plate.
arnie		Hey, Monica, can ya get us into the party?
monica		Sure, Arnie, wait here. I'll come back for ya.. . And she waltzes past him.
monica		 To new friends. They raise their glasses and RACHEL joins in with a hesitant smile. Their glasses clink together for the...
jesse		Damn it. Under a pool of lamplight -- HIS CAR has had its tires slashed and someone has sprayed in red Carlin uies! across the door. TRACY pulls up in. her BMW, wearing her cheerleading outfit.
tracy		Oh, wow, that sucks. Further proof Carlin guys are gravy sucking pigs.
jesse		Yeah.
tracy		Need a ride?
jesse		You goin' to Mark's?
tracy		Wouldn't miss it. Hop in. As he gets into her car, TRACY has one hand on the wheel, the other hanging out her window. She drops something as JESSE closes the door. REVEAL a CAN of red spray paint TRACY dropped onto the parking lot's tarmac.
tracy		Just a quick stop at my house, want to change my outfit. Her car pulls off...
amy		I really like your nail color.
monica		Check out the tattoo on her arm wild huh?
amy		Yeah. Did that hurt?
rachel		No. Well, yeah, actually some.
amy		Oh, it's just too cool.
monica		I'm dying to get one, but my mom would have a shit fit.
amy		So would mine. She says I'm not that type of gi rl.
rachel		What type is that? There's an awkward pause which MONICA breaks.
monica		A slut.  That's why you should take all of us in for tattoos! AMY and the other GIRLS laugh. RACHEL softens, joining in. She looks around at everyone at the party, laughing, dancing. The shiny, happy people. it feels weird, but here she is. She smiles, takes a sip of her drink. By the stereo, MARK cranks up the music as CHUCK dances over to AMY, pulls her into the dancing CROWD. BRAD grabs MONICA.
brad		C'mon, wench, let's dance. He pulls MONICA into the crowd, and she gestures for RACHEL to join them.
rachel		No, I'd rather wait for Jesse.
monica		Oh, c'mon, Rachel. He'd want you to have fun.
amy		Yeah, c'mon, Rach. There's a chorus of "C'mon, Rachel" from the guys and some of the other DANCERS join in. An embarrassed RACHEL surrenders, sets down her drink and enters the dancing group.
monica		All right, girl. RACHEL smiles. BRAD starts dancing before RACHEL. SLOW MOTION -- CLOSE on RACHEL's face, dancing, beaming. For a few moments, everything seems perfect. And she throws her head back and laughs. MARK dances into the group.
mark		Hey, Chuckzilla, why don't you put on the highlights tape?
chuck		You mean tonight's game? MARK shares a laugh and a glance with MONICA and B
mark		Yeah, tonight's game.
chuck		Okay. Let's go to the videotape: He dances out of the group over to the VCR where he pops out a tape and inserts a tape marked "Bulldogs Highlights". RACHEL turns around, sees the large screen TV PLAYING images of the Bulldogs playing football.
rachel		Is that tonight's game?
mark		No, it's the other game. Still dancing, she turns back to the group.
rachel		What other game?
mark		The game you were in. The others laugh. She smiles, confused.
rachel		What?
brad		The one you played.
mark		Yeah, yeah, what was the score? Chuckie, pass me the scoreboard, I wanna show Rachel how she helped Jesse win the game. CHUCK pulls the BLACK NOTEBOOK next to the CD's off a shelf, pretends he's a quarterback hiking a ball. Twenty-four, twenty-six, hut, hut, hut. He drops back to pass the NOTEBOOK.
chuck		Go long, Bradzilla. MARK laughs as BRAD circles around RACHEL, twists between other dancers. CHUCK tosses the NOTEBOOK over RACHEL and BRAD leaps up to catch it.
brad		Post-pattern, Mark! Ducking around DANCERS, MARK raises his hands for the pass. KIDS start to notice their antics and start laughing. BRAD passes the book over to MARK who catches it, mimes spiking it for a touchdown and does a silly victory dance. MONICA laughs and turns to RACHEL, who laughs, even though she still looks a bit befuddled.
mark		Rachel, catch! He throws the NOTEBOOK through the air, where it tumbles end over end for a few slow beats, then is caught by her.
mark		Open it. Go 'head, read off the scores.
brad		Start with Eric.
chuck		Yeah, start with poor Eric. She opens the book, looks at the pages with a quizzical expression. She sees the Bulldog names across the top of the page with lists of girls beneath each one. Every girl has a number next to her with a total at the bottom.
mark		What's Eric's score?
rachel		Twenty-two? RACHEL stops dancing as she spots LISA PARKER's name at the bottom of ERIC's column with the number four next to it.
mark		What's up, Rach? You know someone on that list?
rachel		 Lisa.
mark		Oh, yeah, Lisa, forgot about her.
chuck		How many points was she?
brad		Four. But maybe he shoulda lost those when she offed herself.
mark		Rach, look under Jesses's name, how many points you get?
amy		Who do we appreciate! RACHEL looks down JESSES's column sees-her name with thirty points next to it, then, above hers, sees TRACY with ten.
mark		No, more than that, remember, we thought Rach was a dyke. He got extra-points for the conversion.
brad		points? Try thirty. RACHEL stares at the book, stunned, trying to make sense of it.
monica		Look at her face, this is priceless. At the front door, JESSE walks in, TRACY behind him. He looks around, hasn't seen what's going on yet. ERIC intercepts him, turning JESSE away from the TV.
eric		Hey, man, what did the scout say? Behind Rte... THE TV SET -- between shots of players grunting, tackling and smashing into each other, longer and longer segments appear of...
mark		See, we didn't think Jess could do i so he offered to get evidence, proof that he'd scored you.
monica		Here comes Jesse's big play!
mark		Lookie, lookie, Rachel. RACHEL realizes people are watching something behind her, then laughing at her. She turns and sees... The IMAGES of her and JESSE on the TV. Her face goes slack with horror.
rachel		Oh, God MARK leans in to RACHEL, who hasn't noticed JESSE.
mark		Jess was disappointed with the picture quality, but I told him it was better than Pam and Tommy Lee's tape.
ck		Rach, was it good for you too? Sure looks like it, don't it?
mark		Why don't we ask Jesse? He turns and calls out.
jesse		What... JESSE pushes his way through the crowd, trying to get to RACHEL. TRACY throws an arm around him, kisses his neck.
tracy		He told me he was thinking of me when he fucked you.
jesse		Rachel... He tries to shrug off TRACY, but ERIC and CHUCK grab his arms and pull him back into the crowd.
jesse		Rachel! MARK pushes RACHEL towards BRAD.
mark		Rachel! Rachel! She tries to get away, but BRAD pushes her into MONICA who shoves her to AMY as they join in the chanting. Rachel!
monica		Rachel! Rachel! Drowning out JESSE's cries. RACHEL's P.Q.V. -- spinning around. A NIGHTMARISH GALLERY of dancing, jostling torsos, TWISTED FACES and LAUGHING MOUTHS, smirking and pointing at her.
brad		Hey, is that a zit on your ass? RACHEL has tears streaming down her face for the first time since she was four years old. She bows her head.
brad		Holy shit. He releases her. RACHEL raises her head, eyes glowing with pain and rage, her broken heart turned to stone., The delicate THORN VINE has grown across her chin, cheekbone and forehead, swirling around to end on her other cheek. A stunned BRAD backs away from her. JESSE breaks free of ERIC's grip, slugs CHUCK and pushes his way towards RACHEL. Her HEART POUNDS at an alarming rate as she slowly turns and sees JESSE coming at her, his arms out to take her in his embrace.
a knife		on the bar dances and rattles, then... A WHIP PAN finds... JESSE, as his back arches in pain and he screams. The KNIFE embedded in his open palm, nailing his hand to the wall. MARK and the other boys stare in shock.
mark		What the fuck? ON JESSE -- as he screams again. A CORKSCREW has pierced his other hand, at waist level. The SCREW spins around, burrowing into his flesh.
twisted shadows		are splayed across a wall of KIDS falling to the ground. The hard-edged music keeps playing while... CHUCK's decapitated head rolls across the floor and onto... A plate. The BEEFY BOY spins around, clutcning at a shard protruding from his neck, his carotid artery spewing blood like a lawn sprinkler.
sue barbara		Oh, not Rachel! They race to the door as...
mark		God, it'ls her! She's doing it! SUE moves towards RACHEL.
sue		Stop! Stop it! RACHEL has her gaze locked on... MARK, who realizes he's a dead man. He moves toward a shattered window, through which some PEOPLE escape. But RACHEL turns her head slightly and... A TELEKINETIC PULSE travels across the row of LIQUOR BOTTLES at the bar, exploding them one-by-one, spraying alcohol which douses SUE. A FLAMING LOG erupts from the fireplace... Striking the alcohol-drenched BAR, setting a blazing trail and lighting the curtains on fire, creating a wall of FLAMES before the windows.
sue		Stop it! You don't want to-- And RACHEL snaps her head around, launching another LOG from the fireplace which strikes SUE in the back, whose alcohol drenched clothes catch flames... and she , A.
barbara		No, this isn't happening. It isn't happening, isn't happening... MARK pulls ERIC by the shirt collar and they careen down...
a hallway		where each of the DOORS ahead of them SLAM SHUT as they approach. Utter CHAOS, but RACHEL calmly turns into the hallway, following MARK, as if in a trance.
mark		lowers his shoulder, crashes through a closing door into.
a den		where the walls are decorated with deer heads and hunting trophies. MARK and ERIC are smashing a standing glass case containing pistols and rifles. TRACY leans panting against the wall. MARK slips a HANDGUN into his belt.
tracy		Screw that, get the shotguns! Shaking, freaked out, they gather weapons.
the hall		d ERIC see RACHEL the end of the hall, silhouetted from behind. They take off in the other direction, TRACY bringing up the re Barrelling shoulders first into a door, the boys burst through and into...
mark		Wait till she's closer. TRACY tightens her finger on the trigger. RACHEL's eyes narrow and... TRACY's glasses shatter into her eyes, spewing blood milky fluid. Aaaaa... She staggers, fires her shotgun into ERIC's groin and he lands sitting next to the pool. A dying ERIC stares at his shredded lap, then falls over. MARK looks at his dead friend. Oh, shit. .recovers, and swings his aim back at RACHEL. But his rifle goes sailing over his head and into the grass twenty feet behind him. He makes eye-contact with a grim RACHEL advancing toward him, and hauls ass. RACHEL glances at a coiled GARDEN HOSE and it springs to life, slithering through the grass and across the concrete at high speed to wrap around MARK's ankle and trip him up. He hits the ground hard and rolls over to find the hose twisting around his legs and up his waist like a python.
his hand		grasps for the rifle, but falls short as the hose pins his other arm to his side, then curls around his windpipe in a stranglehold.
gunshots		RACHEL looks down. MARK had pulled the handgun from his belt with his pinned hand and fired. She's holding her belly, gutshot, staggers and falls into the pool, disappearing amid a swirl of blood. MARK yanks the hose from his neck as it goes slack. He gasps, points the gun into the pool and FIRES until it's silent and he's left pulling the trigger on empty chambers. He gets his breatking under control, leans over to look into the water of the deep end. He Aar on the sound of a mechanical whirring, and turns. A POOL COVER starts to unfold. At that moment...
rachel		Mama. Maury? BARBARA'S P.O.V. o but it's a FOUR-YEAR-OLD RACHEL, pristine, without tattoos. BARBARA blinks and her P.O.V. is of a TEN-YEAR-OLD RACHEL, reaching for her. Mama, please. BARBARA blinks and it's now... The 17-YEAR-OLD RACHEL, covered in blood and tattoos. She looks her daughter in the eyes, backs away in terror.
barbara		What are you? You're not my little girl. No. The devil's in you.
rachel		Please, I don't have... anyone. She rolls onto her back, looks up at the STARRY NIGHT.
rachel		Please, God, let me die... And she tightly shuts her eyes.
on jess		He looks back at her.
jesse		Rachel, listen. I swear, d know they were taping us. d never hurt you. She looks at his pleading eyes.
rachel		.love you. JESSE tenderly kisses her lips. And all the TATTOOS fade from her face and body Love. Her face is serene. JESSE traces his fingers across her brow, embraces her, the flames start to encircle them, just like in RACHEL's nightmare. JESSE pulls RACHEL over the debris ridden floor toward the back windows, but stumbles and goes down. Her eyes flutter open.
rachel		Leave. Get out Instead of leaving her, JESSE hugs RACHEL closer. The sleeve of his jacket catches flames. And he accepts his fate. RACHEL shuts her eyes, gives one last TELEKINETIC PUSH...
close on		A dejected ARNIE and the two uncool BOYS who couldn't get into the party, leaning against a van, staring in amazement.
arnie		Man, we are missing one killer party.
jesse		 Jesus. WALTER, Rachel's dog, hops on his lap, licks at.his face. The sad-eyed DOG whimpers'and,JESSE scratches him. In the distance the CLOCK TOWER BELL can be heard CHIMING MIDNIGHT: One, two... As JESSE looks down and his eyes widen in surprise: Somehow, he's scrawled on the notebook paper on the desk in front of him: kINg of HELL Or, if you only look at the capitalized letters, it reads: Around it, the same phrase is written over and over again: kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL kINg of HELL JESSE lowers the dog How did... Trails off as he stares at the page. The CLOCK BELL in the background is still CHIMING: give, six, seven and...
jesse		 Ssshhhh. Relax, boy. He takes a-deep breath, flips the page on the notebook, resumes his cram session. On the floor, the DOG looks at the open French doors, then scurries under the bed. JESSE is writing, in the MIRROR above h A WOMAN' s FIGURE anding in the French doors, her face hidden up, sees the WOMAN reflected, spins to watch her stop forward into the light. It's RACHEL, in hAk slip dress.
jesse		 Rachel. He rises, envelops her in his arms, and kisses her. He pulls back to take her in. T!!s two of thaw are reflected in ANOTHER MIRROR behind the r 's door. opens her mouth to speak --
jos		He recovers, runs his hands through his hair. Starts reading. The DIGITAL CLOCK reads: 11:59 A.M. In the distance, the CLOCK BELL begins'chiming midnight: One, three... JESSE reads, but in his ayes he's waiting for the savant chime. The BELL CHIMES: Four The FRENCH DOORSNinat JESSE spins. The wind. Nobody there. He turns back to his reading, his heart BEATING WILDLY again. Glances up at the mirror. Nothing. His HEARTBEATS and the BELL CHIMES get increasingly LQ= as,.. . He reads, glances up at the mirror, shivers, and it isn't in the cold.
****Dialogues from script :Theory_of_Everything.txt****

shooting script		NOVEMBER 2013
brian		First to find a drink.
stephen		More your field, I think.
brian		You'd better decide on your subject. I'm serious--they'll boot you out.
diana		Scientists! Don't worry. We don't have to stay long. Looks mortifyingly dull.  Be right back, okay? Okay?
stephen		I applied for a job.
brian		Did you?
stephen		Civil Service.
brian		Well, it's a back-up plan--in your case not a bad idea. Did they accept you?
stephen		Unfortunately, that I'll never know. Morning of their exam, I...
brian		- slept in. Well, thank Christ, the world has lost a promising pay- clerk.
stephen		I was going to ask you.
brian		Actually--I think she's--yes-- Basil's sister. Wilde--Jane Wilde.  "So. You like for me I introduce?"
diana		That's better.
jane		Who is that guy?
diana		 Oh, there's David. Come on.
stephen		Hello.
jane		Hello.
stephen		Science?
jane		Arts.
stephen		Cosmologist. I'm a cosmologist.
jane		What's a cosmologist?
stephen		It's a kind of religion--for intelligent atheists.  You're not religious, are you?
jane		C of E. Church of England.
stephen		 I suppose someone has to be.
jane		So--what do cosmologists worship then?
stephen		 A single unifying equation that explains everything in the universe.
jane		 Really? So what's the equation?
stephen		That is the question.
jane		Why didn't you stay at Oxford?
stephen		My finals papers were such a shambles the examiners called me in for a 'Viva' and I told them -
jane		What's a viva?
stephen		A mildly terrifying face-to-face thingy. An interrogation. So I told them that if they gave me a 2nd class degree I'd stay with them and do my research at Oxford, but if they gave me the 1st I needed to get into Cambridge, then they'd never have to see me again.
jane		They gave you the 1st.
stephen		They gave me the 1st.
diana		This party is officially deceased! Come on--I've fixed you up a ride home.
jane		Well, I hope you find your equation.
sciama		A little challenge for you all, as you embark on your separate doctoral journeys -  - whatever they may be, Mr Hawking -
brian		 This is going to hospitalize me.
brian		Oh come on, get up. How many have you got?
stephen		Morning, Brian.
brian		Afternoon, Stephen. Where are they? Where are you hiding them? Your answers.
stephen		Brian, I have no idea what you're talking about.
brian		How many of Sciama's questions have you done?
stephen		None.
brian		You liar!
stephen		I was going do them later.
brian		Later? You mean you haven't even started?
stephen		Yes.
brian		Oh, good. Thought maybe you'd slept through the induction or something.
stephen		 Bri-?
brian		What?
stephen		Can you whip on some Wagner?
brian		Sod off.
sciama		 ...that's just--baffling.
stephen		Sorry.
sciama		Train timetables? Stephen, these are totally unacceptable--they expired a month ago.
stephen		Sorry. It's on the back. Had a little accident.
sciama		Well...I see...well thank God. Well done Stephen.
brian		 Nine?
stephen		Full, give me twenty - One, drive! - Two, drive! - Three, big legs! - Four, press! - Five, boom! - Hook, send! - Catch, big send! - Hold at 32! - Big legs, Brian! - Big legs! 
brian		 You! - complete! - and! - utter! bastard!
carter		No, no, listen, listen, pay attention. A man enters a lift, wanting to go to the fiftieth floor but only gets as far as the 46th. Why?
brian		 Erm - there was a naked girl in the lift.
ellis		No--we give up. No idea.
stephen		He was too short to reach the button for the fiftieth floor.
brian		Okay, I've got one. Okay, okay-- A naked girl enters a lift -
stephen		 Do you have change for the pay- phone?
barman		Sure.
stephen		Uh - my napkin just walked in.
jane		Hello.
stephen		What's the probability?
jane		Reasonably low.  Uh - this is - Stephen.
stephen		Croquet. Do you play croquet?
jane		 Um. Not recently.
stephen		Sunday morning?
jane		I'm actually busy Sunday mornings.
stephen		Oh. Of course.  Him.
sciama		Stephen, come in. Sit down. Now-- we're all rather concerned--about your choice of subject. What it's going to be.
stephen		I can't decide.
sciama		Any ideas?
stephen		Umm-- No.
sciama		Come with me.
sciama		This lab is where JJ Thomson discovered the electron, where Rutherford split the atom. One of the great rewards of this job is that you never know from where the next great leap forward is going to come, or from whom.
jane		So I gather you've never been to church?
stephen		Once upon a time.
jane		Tempted to convert?
stephen		I have a problem with the whole Celestial Dictator premise. What are you doing for lunch? Ma makes a cracking roast.
frank hawking		And Jane? What are you studying?
jane		Arts. Languages, poetry. I'm thinking of doing a PhD eventually.
frank hawking		Oh? What in?
jane		 Medieval poetry of the Iberian Peninsula.
frank hawking		Arts. So, what painters do you like?
jane		Well, I like--Turner...
frank hawking		Really? Turner? To me they all look as if they've been left out in the rain.
jane		And...William Blake.
phillipa		Good heavens. Surely not!
frank hawking		 Will you try my elderflower wine?
jane		Yes, please.
stephen		 Don't touch it, don't touch it Jane.
frank hawking		Stephen doesn't like my homemade wine. Philistine.  If you don't watch out I'll send you back with a couple of bottles.
phillipa		So Stephen, you've been to church with a good woman. Are you feeling holier than thou?
stephen		Positively saintly, thank you.
jane		 You've never said why you don't believe in God.
stephen		A physicist can't allow his calculations to be muddled by a belief in a supernatural creator.
jane		Sounds less of an argument against God than against physicists.
frank hawking		 Jane? Light meat or dark?
jane		Er - light, please.
stephen		I'll wing it. As usual.
phillipa		Boooo.
frank hawking		How plucky of you.
phillipa		Ohh, fowl play! Fowl play.
stephen		Stop egging him on!
frank hawking		It's so nicely cocked.
isobel		 Don't worry about them. They're pun mad.
jane		That's okay -  - the breast is yet to come.
frank hawking		HA! Marvelous! Very good. "The breast is yet to come!" Indeed it is! Well done.
stephen		Oh! - I'm inviting Jane to be my partner for the May Ball.
jane		Should we dance, do you think?
stephen		Oh, no, no. Happy to observe the phenomenon--but I can't possibly imagine participating.
jane		I absolutely agree. I mean, who would want to dance?
stephen		No, I'm quite serious. I don't dance.
jane		 Yes...
stephen		Do you know why?
jane		Why?
stephen		"TIDE."
jane		The washing powder?
stephen		The fluorescence in the washing powder is caught by the UV light.
jane		Why do you know that?
stephen		 When stars are born and when they die, they emit UV radiation. So if we could see the night sky in ultraviolet light, almost all the stars would disappear--and all we'd see would be these spectacular births and deaths. And I reckon-- it would look a little -
jane		- like that.
stephen		So why...  ...why...
jane		Why?
stephen		Why medieval Spanish poetry?
jane		 I suppose I like to time travel.
stephen		And what particular time periods do you visit?
jane		The Twenties is always fun.
stephen		The roaring twenties! Cheers!
jane		"Seek then/ No learning/ from Starry Men!/ Who follow with Optic Glass/ The Whirling Ways of Stars that Pass."
stephen		Ouch.
jane		Was it -
stephen		A smashing time actually. Spacetime was born.
jane		Spacetime...
stephen		Space and Time finally got together. People always thought they were too dissimilar, couldn't possibly work out. But then along comes Einstein, the ultimate match- maker, and decided that space and time, not only had a future, but had been married all along.
jane		The perfect couple!
stephen		Well that's astonishing, isn't it?
jane		 "In the beginning was the heaven and the earth, and the earth was without form, and darkness-- darkness was upon the face of the deep."
stephen		Would you dance with me?
roger penrose		So what do we know? Let me rephrase that--what do the equations tell us, finally?
stephen		 I wonder what would happen--if--I wonder what would happen--
sciama		Go on. If?
stephen		If you applied Penrose's theory about black holes to--the entire universe?
stephen		If--if--so--If--Einstein is right, if--general relativity is correct, then the universe is expanding, yes? -
jane		- Alright -
stephen		- which means - that--if you reverse time, the universe would get smaller and smaller. So what if--if I reverse the process all the way to see what happened at the beginning of Time itself? The universe, smaller and smaller, denser and denser, hotter and hotter as we approach its birth. Wind back the clock...
jane		Winding back the clock!
stephen		 Is that what you're doing?
jane		That's what I'm doing.
stephen		Well keep winding! You've got quite a way to go. Keep winding, Jane! Keep winding...back to the beginning of Time...Keep winding...
sciama		A singularity.
stephen		A spacetime singularity. At the beginning of time.
sciama		 Keep going.
stephen		Keep going? You mean go further back, Professor? Before the universe began?
sciama		Keep going. Develop the mathematics.
stephen		I don't know how.
stephen		What is it? What's wrong with me?
senior doctor		It's called motor neuron disease.
stephen		What's that?
senior doctor		It's a progressive neurological disorder that destroys the cells in the brain that control essential muscle activity such as speaking, walking--breathing-- swallowing. The signals that muscles must receive in order to move are disrupted, cut off. The result is--gradual muscle decay, a wasting away. Eventually, the ability to control voluntary movement is--lost--entirely.
stephen		Is--is--is there a cure? Some--? Is--can you--?
senior doctor		Improvement should not be expected. 
stephen		Wait! What about--what about the brain?
senior doctor		The brain isn't affected. Your thoughts won't change--it's just-
stephen		What?
senior doctor		Eventually--no-one will know what they are.  Ever so sorry.
brian		 Is he up yet? THE THEORY of EVERYTHING   29
brian		"Welcome--to this week's episode of The Natural World, where we explain the extraordinary hibernation patterns of the rare Cambridge Physicist--seen here in his wonderful plumage..."
stephen		I have a disease, Bri.
brian		 Is it--venereal, Stephen?
stephen		No. Motor neuron disease. Lou Gehrig's Disease. He was a baseball player.
brian		Motor what? Sorry, I'm lagging behind in my pioneering work on rare automotive and baseball diseases. Come on, let's go to the pub.
stephen		 Sounds strange, doesn't it, when you say it out loud.
brian		What? I--I don't understand. It's not possible! It's ridiculous! 
stephen		Will you leave me Brian?
brian		I'm sorry, look, I was just being a berk...I'm so...
bedder		Stephen! Phone for you! It's a girl.
brian		Right. OK. So--see you soon, yeah?
bedder		 She's waiting.
jane		Stephen? Hi. It's me.  Stephen?
jane		STEPHEN?!  STEPHEN! THE THEORY of EVERYTHING   31
brian		Jane!
jane		Brian--have you seen Stephen?
brian		Jane, have a seat.
jane		What is it?
brian		I understand you saw him. You know he was in hospital...
jane		Something educational?
jane		Are you close?
stephen		It's some integer of zero, but I'm not there yet.
jane		STEPHEN?
stephen		You just missed him. He was here earlier.
jane		Don't do this.
stephen		What?
jane		Cut me off.
stephen		Go.
jane		Teach me croquet.  What is this?
stephen		I believe you poetry under- graduate types call it..."a slough of despond."
jane		If you don't get up and play a game with me I won't come back here again. Ever.
stephen		My turn.
stephen		Go away.
jane		Are you going to talk about this or not?
stephen		There's nothing to say-- just...
jane		Is that what you want?
stephen		That's what I want. I haven't got time for you. So - if you care about me at all - go.
jane		I can't.
stephen		I've got two years. I need to work.
jane		I can't.
stephen		You've--you've leapt to--a false conclusion...
jane		My chances are probably -  - well, some "integer of zero", but I think we can make a go of this. I want us to be together, for as long as we've got. And if that's not very long then - well, that's just how it is. It will have to do.
stephen		You don't realise what's coming. It'll affect everything.
jane		Your glasses are always dirty.
stephen		 Yes. It is.
sciama		...the solutions to the Schrodinger equation must vanish at the boundary of the box, so we have...
stephen		 Time!
sciama		Time. That's your subject? Any aspect of it, in particular?
stephen		Time.
frank hawking		You don't realize what lies ahead. His life is going to be very short. So. Be careful. Science is against you. And it's not going to be a fight, Jane. It's going to be a very heavy defeat. For all of us.
jane		I know--I know what you all think. That I don't look a terribly strong person. But I love him. And he loves me. We're going to fight this illness--all of us.
jane		Ready. Good luck. Are you sure I can't drive you?
sciama		Come in Stephen.
stephen		 Fine.
sciama		Would you like to sit down?
stephen		No thankyou.
sciama		So. Chapters One--full of holes and lacks mathematical support.  Professor Thorne?
kip thorne		Chapter Two--not really original-- uses a lot of Roger's ideas.
penrose		Well at least you run with them. Chapter Three? Too many unanswered questions.
sciama		But Four?
kip thorne		A spacetime singularity?
sciama		Brilliant. It's brilliant Stephen. So all that remains to be said is...well done. Or should I say, well done Doctor. And extraordinary theory.
stephen		Thankyou.
sciama		So, what now?
stephen		Prove it. Prove...with a single equation, that Time has a beginning. Wouldn't that be nice Professor? One single elegant equation to explain everything?
sciama		Yes. It would. It would indeed.
jane		TO DOCTOR-
brian		-Who?
jane		To Doctor Stephen Hawking.
brian		What's astonishing is that for Stephen and I, "work" was the worst four-letter word, the worst.  Unbelievable levels of sloth!
jane		 Stephen?
stephen		I'm sorry.
stephen		It's okay Robert.
stephen		This--is--temporary.
jane		Of course.
stephen		Well, it's convenient for breakfast!
jane		 Excuse me, did you say something?
stephen		I said--thankyou.
stephen		Go Jane.
jane		One second.
stephen		JANE?
jane		Are you alright?
stephen		 I've got an idea. I've got an idea Jane!
sciama		Kip! He's done it, Kip! He's -
kip thorne		What is it?
sciama		Stephen! He's changed everything!
sciama		All set?
char 1		Look at him. It's awful, in't it? He's falling apart at the seams.
jane		 Good luck!
sciama		Ready or not.
stephen		 ...allowing us to predict that some particles can in fact escape a black hole. Black holes aren't black at all, but glow with heat radiation.
sciama		 He's unifying Relativity--plus Quantum Mechanics and Thermodynamics. For the first time.
john taylor		 Thermodynamics? Last used to describe the steam engine.
stephen		In other words--the steady emission of heat energy causes black holes to slowly lose mass, they evaporate, eventually disappearing in a spectacular explosion. So...
brian		No,no! What he's saying is--just as a hot body loses heat--right? -
rees		Second law of thermodynamics.
brian		- that a black hole -
rees		- thanks -
brian		- that if it is losing particles, then, then over time -
stephen		- it must eventually disappear.
brian		Gone!   From nothing--into nothing.
rees		You owe me another beer.
carter		Me too.
brian		He's just told us that -  - Time! Had a beginning! He shown us how -
ellis		 - the universe was born and how it will end.
rees		Bang.
brian		Crunch!  It's beautiful! It's racy! It's totally, totally -
john taylor		I'm afraid--this is complete nonsense. It's preposterous.
stephen		Was it something I said?
sciama		I-
khalatnikov		STOP! Please.
brian		BASTARDS!
stephen		Big legs! Big legs Brian!
brian		So, tell me, this Motor Neuron Disease, does it effect, y'know...
stephen		What?
brian		Everything..?
stephen		Different system. Automatic.
brian		That's kinda wonderful, actually. And it explains a great deal about men.
jane		Get in the car! Get! In! The Car! Come on! Let's go see Gran and Grandad!
isobel		Isn't it marvellous? We can rent it every year!
jane		Yes. I see. But what about all the steps, Frank?
frank hawking		Oh, it's nothing. The climb is absolutely worth it. You get the luggage.
frank hawking		Oh--Rain?--Falling?--Rain Falling Down?--Shivering?--Uhhhrrrrr---
isobel		Very cold...
jane		He needs to see a doctor. This keeps happening!
stephen		No doctors!
frank hawking		Very well, no doctors.
jane		I need help. I keep--I keep looking for a way-- to make this work--but I can't find it.
stephen		 We're fine--we're just a normal family.
jane		 WE'RE NOT A NORMAL FAMILY!!! We're not a normal family.
jane		 Thanks.
jane		Ready?
robert		Surprise! Look Daddy Look!
jane		It's an electric wheelchair. We can take it back--if you don't like it.
sciama		I don't get it. You've spent years assuming Black Holes exist--you believe Cygnus X-1 will turn out to be the first black hole we can actually observe==and yet you bet Kip Thorne that it isn't a black hole?
stephen		 Yes, a magazine subscription.
sciama		Why would you bet against yourself? 
stephen		Pent-house. That way even if I'm wrong, I still win!
sciama		Penthouse?
beryl		Jane--Jane? Jane? Jane! STOP!
jane		Mum--I think that is possibly the most English thing anyone has ever said.
beryl		Maybe so.
jane		I used to love singing.
beryl		You're very good at it.
jane		I don't know about that.
beryl		Go.  It's one hour a week.
jonathan		Oh, hello.
jane		Hello.
jonathan		Are you here to sing?
jane		I um--I just came to--
jonathan		Soprano? Soprano.
jane		I wish.
jonathan		Mezzo?
jane		 Alto.
jonathan		Well--Just what we need.  Where have you been hiding?
jane		Good question.
jonathan		Well, you're here now. And just in time.
jane		 Am I?
jonathan		Yes. So tell me.  Chopin! Yes? Your repertoire.
jane		I wouldn't call it a repertoire. Brahms--I know a little-
jonathan		Brahms! Wonderful. Perfect. We -
jane		Well, I have sung--"Immer leiser."
jonathan		Ah! "My sleep grows evermore peaceful." Come on. Follow me. Come on. Let me hear you. Come on.
jonathan		 Jonathan. Jonathan Hellyer Jones.
jane		Jane. Jane Hawking.
jonathan		In C-sharp minor? The introduction, so lovely. From the top?
jane		Now?
jonathan		"Living on the edge."  If you're not in the mood we could absolutely forget -
jane		No, no. No, no. Just let me remember the lyrics. In English.
jonathan		Fabulous.
jane		Okay.
jonathan		Okay?  Two, three...
jane		 THE THEORY of EVERYTHING   56
jonathan		Actually, no, I go for the Gospel of St. Mark.
jane		None of that wishy-washy do-gooder stuff--Matthew, Luke.
jonathan		Exactly. With Mark you roll up your sleeves and get stuck in. No standing on the sidelines.
jane		Well I should be going.
jonathan		Well met. Oh, and if your daughter would like those piano lessons.
jane		Absolutely. My husband loves music too.
jonathan		I could teach him as well.
jane		Well, that's a long story. 'Night.
jane		Water.
jonathan		 So - Stephen. Er - Jane tells me...
stephen		 That was my - PhD thesis.
jonathan		Your...?
jane		PhD thesis.
stephen		My new project - disproves it.
jonathan		Disproves it? Really? 
stephen		What one believes - - is irrelevant--in physics.
jane		...in physics.
jonathan		Oh, is that so?
jane		 Stephen's done a U-turn. The big new idea is that the universe has no boundaries at all. No boundaries, no beginning. No BEGINNING -
jonathan		- no God? Really?  Fascinating. Because I'd understood you'd proven the need for a Creator. My mistake.
stephen		No. Mine.
jonathan		 Yours. Your mistake?
jane		Stephen is looking for a single law that governs all the forces in the universe. So God must die.
jonathan		Why must God die? I don't see.
jane		The two great pillars of physics ARE -  - Quantum Theory, the laws that govern the very small--electrons, particles so on--and General Relativity...
jonathan		Oh, yes - Einstein.
jane		...Einstein's theory.  Relativity...
jonathan		They're--different?
jane		They don't remotely play by the same rules. Peas are chaotic, and don't behave predictably at all -
jonathan		UNLIKE--POTATOES -
jane		Which you can set your watch by.
stephen		 Very good.
jane		If the world were all potatoes, easy--you could trace a precise beginning, as Stephen once did, a moment of Creation. Hallelujah, God lives. 
stephen		Tits up.
jane		Tits up. Haywire. Becomes a Godless mess.
jonathan		Oh, dear.
jane		Einstein hated peas, Quantum Theory. "God doesn't play dice with the universe", he said.
stephen		Seems he not only plays dice -
jane		Seems he not only plays dice -
stephen		- he throws them - where we can't find them. 
jane		- he throws them -
jonathan		- where we can't find them. How inconvenient!
jane		Stephen's swapped his telescope  Order for chaos--hoping to find a law to cover both.
jonathan		Looking for "the world in a grain of sand."
jane		God is back on the endangered species list.
jonathan		I expect he'll cope.
stephen		But physics--is back in business.
jane		Physics is back in business. Stephen thinks it a fair exchange.
stephen		 It's the final--challenge. We'll know everything.
jonathan		The final challenge?
jane		 More wine?
jonathan		No, thank you.
jane		 We'll know everything.
jonathan		It was leukaemia. Coming up on a year ago. She fought it, I nursed her, but in the end... Music is my salvation. Teaching and playing. I've struggled with loneliness, of course. Tyranny of the empty room, all that. Music is a consolation, although my career... Well, I'm not very ambitious.  Is that a sin?
stephen		Wrong guy to ask. THE THEORY of EVERYTHING   62
jane		Thank you for coming.
jonathan		No. Thank you. It was wonderful.  And if--if there was anything I can do. To be of service. To you, your family. I have no children, no commitments. If I could help you, I believe I would find a purpose that would alleviate my own situation. It would be a privilege.
stephen		I understand you need more help. And if there is - someone - who is prepared to offer it - I won't object, as long - as long as you continue to love me.
jane		Of course. For infinity.
jane		I have to tell you something.
jonathan		Is anything the matter?
jane		I'm um--I'm pregnant.
jonathan		Oh.  Congratulations are in order.
jane		Does it make a difference?
jonathan		 Of course not.
frank hawking		I've always supported you in your choice not to have home help, but now, you need a permanent solution. This--this current 'situation' can't go on. You need a proper live- in nurse immediately.
stephen		We have help.
frank hawking		You know what I'm talking about.
stephen		 Can't afford--live-in nurse.
frank hawking		You can't afford to--  There must be a way. You need to find a way. For your family's sake. You're world famous -
stephen		For black holes--not rock concerts.
frank hawking		I believe it's urgent.
isobel		You know very well what I'm talking about.
jane		No. I don't.
isobel		We do have a right to know. We have a right to know, Jane.
jane		Know what?!
isobel		Whose child Timothy is. Stephen's, or Jonathan's?
jane		That's what you think of me?
jonathan		I need to go. I can't...
jane		Please don't go.
jonathan		Everyone's talking. It's -
jane		So. What does it matter?
jonathan		Well, there are other things too. I - I - just -  I have feelings for you.
jane		I have feelings for you, too.
jonathan		Perhaps the right thing is for me to just--step back.
stephen		I've just been invited -
jane		Invited? Where?
stephen		Geneva.
jane		Geneva?
stephen		Students can accompany me.
jane		What students?
stephen		I know how much you hate -
jane		You know how much I hate -
stephen		- to fly.
jane		To fly. Yes.
stephen		I was thinking - that you and the CHILDREN -
jane		- Me and the children--go on?
stephen		could bring the car -
jane		- bring the car -
stephen		- meet me in Bayreuth -
jane		Bayreuth? How can I manage that? On my own?
stephen		Bring Jonathan.
jane		I doubt he would be willing.
stephen		Is--this okay?
jonathan		Well--I won't tell if you don't.
jonathon		Not too much--bearing in mind you have to drive.
stephen		Jane--needs--help.
jane		And please please remember, 5 milligrams of Riluzole before and after the flight.
stephen		 See you - in Bayreuth.
jane		Travel safely.
jane		Forty-nine...Fifty. Coming ready or not!
jane		 What are you talking about?
swiss doctor		 If we try to bring him round from the anaesthetic it is not sure he will survive resuscitation.
jane		Stephen must live! You have to bring him round from the anaesthetic!
swiss doctor		Are you sure this is what you want? The only way of weaning him off the ventilator would be to give him a tracheotomy, a hole in the neck, by-passing the throat. He will never speak again.
jane		There's no question. Stephen must live. I will see he gets everything he needs. I will have him transferred back to Cambridge.
swiss doctor		He may not survive the journey.
jonathan		I'll step back.
jane		Drive--safely, yes? Did you get everything in the car? His chair, equipment...
english doctor		It'll take a miracle.
jane		She's here. Okay. Promise not to eat her alive...
elaine		So then - Professor. How are you? My name is Elaine. I'm going to be your nurse, would you like that? No? Well- we'll work it out.
elaine		 You're good. You want tea. What type of tea?
elaine		 I think he's the most brilliant man I've ever met. You're very lucky.
jane		Thank you.
elaine		You must worship the ground beneath HIS -
jane		- wheels.
elaine		And he's the perfect patient. Looking after him is so much easier than other patients I've had. 
jane		 You only do two shifts a week, Elaine.
technician		Almost there!
jane		How does it work?
technician		A guy called Walt Woltosz invented the software. Uses a very simple interface that scans through the alphabet and allows each letter to be selected one by one. Using this technique, the Professor can expect to write at about four words per minute.
jane		 Better than one a minute.
technician		What I've done is--use components from a telephone answering system actually-- to convert the written text into synthesized speech. The voice sounds a bit robotic, but...  Okay. Shall we give it a try?
stephen		 My--name--is--Stee--ven--Hawking.
jane		It's American! Oh, my Goodness.  Are there any other voices?
technician		That's all they have at the moment. Is that a problem?
elaine		I think it's great!
stephen		Daisy. Daisy.  Give Me Your Answer Do.
stephen		Frankly my dear, I don't give a damn.
stephen		Ex-terminate..! Ex-terminate..! Ex-terminate..!
stephen		I will write. A Book.
jane		At four words a minute? About what?
stephen		Time...
stephen		Only Time, whatever that may be, will tell.
elaine		 Professor?
stephen		It is for a friend.
elaine		'Course it is. That's what they all say.
sciama		Oh. I'm sorry.
elaine		Next one?
jane		Elaine? Can we - ?
elaine		We're not quite finished--can you come back in ten minutes?
jane		 'GOD'? Do you really mean this?
stephen		Yes.  Of course.
jane		So you're acknowledging him?
stephen		HOWEVER --
jane		Did you just say something?
stephen		You - are - welcome.
jane		 Will she?
stephen		Don't worry.
jane		America?  You always used to tell me when an invitation came in.
stephen		 A-nother a-ward. What can you do?
jane		They said - two. We've had so many.
stephen		Be. Happy.
jane		I have loved you.  I did my best.
beryl		Remarkable. How is he?
jane		He wants to marry her.
beryl		Don't blame yourself. We're proud of you.
jane		I'm trying hard not to think of this as a failure.
beryl		But it wasn't a failure.
jane		But it feels like it! It feels like it, Mum.  Was it inevitable?
beryl		Perhaps too many people were drawn in?  What will Stephen do next?
jane		 He's gone back to looking for his Theory Of Everything, his single equation. Well, it'll have to explain human relationships too.
beryl		All the unexpected forces... attractions...
jane		And vice versa.
beryl		Of course.
jane		Then add Time - Adversity -
beryl		Yes. Adversity over time --
jane		- until the situation becomes unstable, heats up.
beryl		Bang!
jane		And the whole thing starts over. Whole new galaxies.
beryl		Darling, I think we've cracked it. Shall we phone the Nobel committee now or shall we have another cup of tea first?
female fan		Professor? Could you please sign a copy for me?
stephen		I cannot sign copies of my book-- but if you like--I could drive over it.
sciama		Thankyou. I first met--the Professor--was it really 1963? Time- -where does it go? Back then, he was kind of annoying. 
guest 1		How have you been able to deal with all the physical challenges you face?
stephen		Can you hear me?  There are some things I cannot do. But. They are mostly the things I don't particularly want to do anyway.
guest 2		Now you are recognized everywhere, how do you deal with all the attention?
stephen		I was stopped recently by a tourist in Cambridge who asked if I was 'the real Stephen Hawking.' I replied that I was not, and said the real one was--much better looking.
guest 3		In 1979 you talked about the possibility of a theory of everything being discovered before the end of the century.
stephen		I now predict -- that I was wrong.
guest 4		Is Time Travel possible?
stephen		I have experimental evidence that Time Travel is not possible. I gave a party for Time-Travellers but no- one came.
guest 5		Professor Hawking, you have said you don't believe in God...
stephen		It is clear that we are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet orbiting around a very average star in the outer suburb of one among a hundred billion galaxies...
jane		It's from Stephen.  He's--he has invited--the children and I--to accompany him.
jonathan		Gosh.
jane		Your glasses are always dirty.
jane		 I'll leave a card. There's a number you can call. They can install ramps in a day. It really would be helpful.
****Dialogues from script :There_s_Something_About_Mary.txt****

ted		Hey, Renise.
renise		Hey.
ted		So what's up?
renise		Eh.
ted		Great. Great.  So listen, uh, I was wondering if maybe you wanted to go to the prom you know, with me.
renise		See, the thing is, I heard a rumor that this guy I like was gonna ask me.
ted		Uh-huh.
renise		Yeah, so...I'm gonna wait and see what happens there...But that sounds great, yeah.
ted		Okay.  So is that a yes or a no?
renise		I think I was very clear, Ted. If everything else falls apart, maybe.
ted		I'm gonna hold you to that.
ted		Ah, I don't know if I'm even gonna. You know, not my style.
ted		 Who?
ted		 Yeah, and who are you gonna take, your own palm?
ted		Who?
ted		Woogie from Borrington high? Sounds like a loser.
girl		What?!
boyfriend		You son-of-a-bitch, I'll kick your ass!
ted		Take it easy, Smokey.
ted		All right, just be cool.  He looks like he's not all there, you know what I mean?
mary		What's going on here?
mary		No, I haven't seen your baseball. Jeez, Warren, you know you're not supposed to leave the yard by yourself.
mary		He's my brother.
mary		You okay?
ted		Oh yeah. Fine.
mary		Thanks a lot, Ted.
mary		Hey, you're limping. Did you just hurt yourself?
ted		No, it's an old football injury.
mary		Oh, are you on the team?
ted		No, a couple of the players and me were joking around and, uh, I fell off the school.
warren		Piggyback ride?
mary		Warren, come on, leave Ted alone.
warren		Piggyback ride.
ted		 I don't mind. If you think he can hold me.
mary		Oh he can hold you. He weighs two-hundred-and-thirty pounds.
ted		A real Clydesdale, huh Warren?
warren		My turn now.
ted		 We're here, Warren. You wanna get off?
warren		Giddy-up.
mary		So who you taking to the prom?
ted		Huh?
mary		The prom--you going?
ted		Oh, I don't know. I think proms are pretty dumb.
mary		'Cause I thought maybe you and I could go if you weren't already taking someone.
ted		I mean dumb in the sense that they only happen once a year.
ted		They broke up. She said he started getting weird on her.
ted		Oh come on, why would I lie?
mary's dad		Yeah? What do you want?
ted		Um, hi, I'm Ted Peloquin. I'm here to take Mary to the prom.
mary's dad		Prom? You're about twenty minutes late. She just left for the prom with her boyfriend Woogie.
mary's mom		Charlie, that's mean. Come on in, Ted. Don't listen to Mr. Wise Guy here. He's a joke a minute.
ted		Oh.  Oh, that's a good one.
ted		Hey, Warren.
mary		Hi, Ted.
ted		Hi, Mary.
mary's mom		Poor Teddy--he's been getting it both barrels from the Wisenheimer here.
mary		Dad, have you been busting Ted's chops?
warren		 'Bout ten times.
ted		Hey, Warren, I think I know where your baseball is.
warren		You seen my baseball?
ted		Well, if it's a big white one with red stitching, I think I saw it right behind your ear ..
mary		Warren!!!
mary's dad		 What the hell are you doing?!
mary's mom		Teddy, let him go!
ted		 I'm trying...tell him to...calm down.
ted		I was playing a trick. I-I-I had a baseball.
mary's mom		What baseball? Where's a baseball?
ted		There was a ball I had a honest.
ted		Oh. Okay. I gotcha.
mary		Are you all right?
ted		Oh yeah.
mary's mom		 Honey, now you're all wrinkled.
mary		Ted, will you just give me one more minute? I have to iron this thing.
ted		 May I use your bathroom?
ted		YEEEOOOOOWWWWWW!!!!!!!!!!
mary		 Ted, are you okay?
mary's mom		He's been in there over half an hour.  Charlie, I think he's masturbating.
mary		Mom!
mary's mom		Well he was watching you undress with a silly grin on his face.
mary's mom		Charlie, do something.
mary's dad		All right, kid, that's it, I'm coming in.
ted		I wish.
mary's dad		You got what stuck?
ted		It.
mary's dad		It?  Oh it. All right, these things happen, let me have a look. It's not the end of the world.
mary's dad		 Shirley, get in here! You gotta see this!
ted		What?! No please, sir--
mary's dad		She's a dental hygienist. She'll know what to do.
mary's mom		Teddy, hon, are you okay?  OH HEAVENS TO PETE!
ted		Would you shhh! Mary's gonna hear us.
mary's mom		Just relax, dear. Now, um...what exactly are we looking at here?
ted		 What do you mean?
mary's mom		 I mean is it...is it...?
mary's dad		 Is it the frank or the beans?
ted		I think a little of both.
mary		 Shhhh.
ted		One guess.
mary's dad		How the hell'd you get the beans all the way up top like that?
ted		I don't know. It's not like it was a well thought-out plan.
mary's mom		Oh my, there sure is a lot of skin coming through there.
mary's dad		I'm guessing that's what the soprano shriek was about, pumpkin.
mary's mom		I'm going to get some Bactine.
ted		No, please!
police officer		Ho there.
ted		 Oh God.
police officer		Everything okay here? Neighbors said they heard a lady scream.
mary's dad		You're looking at him. C'mere and take a look at this beauty.
ted		No, that's really unneces--
police officer		Now I've seen it all. What the hell were you thinking?
ted		 I wasn't trying--
police officer		Is that bubble what I think it is?
mary's dad		Let's just say the kid's limber.
police officer		Well, there's only one thing to do.
ted		No, no, no, I'll be fine. I'll just hang my shirttail out and work on it in the morning.
police officer		Look, son, this'll only hurt for a second.
ted		No, no, please!
mary's mom		Teddy, be brave.
police officer		It's just like pulling off a Band-aid. A-one and a-two and...
paramedic		We got a bleeder!
paramedic		 Keep pressure on it!
mary		 Ted, I'm so sorry. Are you going to be okay?
ted		 You betcha!
ted		...Anyway, school ended a few days later and that July her father got transferred to Florida.
psychiatrist		Uh-huh. Interesting.
ted		Anyway, it's not something you exactly forget about, but I guess I must've blocked it out of my head. Then about a week ago I'm driving on the highway and I got to thinking about Mary and suddenly I couldn't breathe...I couldn't keep up with the flow of traffic anymore I felt like I was going to die. I pulled into a rest area, parked the car, and just started shaking.
psychiatrist		You know...rest areas are homosexual hang-outs.
ted		Huh?
psychiatrist		Highway rest areas--they're the bathhouses of the nineties for some gay men.
ted		What are you saying?
psychiatrist		 Oops, time's up. We'll have to delve into that next week.
dom		Gay? He said you were gay?
ted		He implied it.
dom		Well you're a writer, and a lot of writers are gay. Look at Truman Capote.
ted		Yeah, but he was successful.
dom		Let me ask you this: When you smoke a cigar, do you ever pretend it has balls?
ted		Come on, that wouldn't make me gay.
dom		I'm going to fix you up with my new assistant.
ted		What's he like?
dom		You're leaving it out. Finish your swing.  You're going to like this one--she's half Asian, half American.
ted		Good-looking?
dom		I just told you, she's half Asian. half American. They're all good looking. You could mate Don Rickles and Yoko Ono and they're going to have a gorgeous kid. It's a foolproof combo.
ted		What's the point? Let's face it, Dom, I'm in a slump.  Lately I've been feeling like...well...like a loser.
dom		Loser? You?
ted		Oh, so I'm lucky because my brother got killed in an explosion?
dom		I never said that. I'm saying your lucky those kids found his kidneys.  Besides, your brother Jimmy never gave a shit about you.
ted		I gotta take this, it might be my boss.  Ted here.
garbled voice		 You're a cocksucking motherfucking piece of puke!
ted		Yep.
dom's wife		I thought you guys might like these with your beers.
dom		Thanks, baby.
ted		See, that's what I want. I don't need these bimbettes you got me chasing. I want what you have. A family....Someone to...you know...love.
dom		Each day is better than the next.  Have you ever been, you know...in love with someone?
ted		Nah.
dom		Never?
ted		Well once. Mary.
dom		Mary again.
ted		Look, I admit it was brief, but it was definitely love. Crushes don't last twelve years.
dom		Whatever happened to Mary?
ted		I told you, her family moved to Miami.
dom		I mean since then.
ted		I don't know.
dom		Well why don't you look her up?
ted		 Yeah, right.
dom		Why not?
ted		Because I guarantee she's married and has a couple kids. Girls like Mary don't stay single.
dom		What if you're wrong? You just said she's the only girl you ever loved, what have you got to lose by calling her?
ted		I did try calling her.  A few years ago. She wasn't listed.
dom		So that was it? One bump in the road and you gave up?
ted		I also called Unsolved Mysteries.
dom		You're kidding? What did they say?
ted		They told me they don't help out stalkers.  Look, maybe they're right, it's been a long time.
dom		I got it--you hire a private eye, fly him out there, he follows her around a couple days, she'll never know a thing.
ted		No. No fucking way. That's too creepy.
dom		Wait a second. There's a guy named Healy in my office who might be able to help you out. He's a claims investigator and he goes to Miami every couple weeks.
ted		I don't know about this, Dom.
dom		Relax, this guy owes me a big one. A couple years ago he got in a jam up in the Boston office; some bullshit about padding his resume--like we haven't all done that. Anyway, they were going to let him go but his mother wrote a tear-jerker letter that ended up on my desk.
ted		His mother?
dom		Yeah, I guess he still lives with her. Seemed like a sweet lady--got diabetes or something--so I went out on a limb and got him transferred down to Providence.
ted		And you think he could find out her number for me?
dom		He'll do better than that. I'll send him down to Miami on business, you throw him a couple bucks on the side, and he'll track her down.
healy		So, Dom tells me you're looking for some lady-friend you knew in high school.
ted		Uh-huh.
healy		Any idea where I might start looking?
ted		She moved to Miami Beach twelve years ago. I checked directory assistance down there and she's not listed. She might've moved ten times since then.
healy		 All you want is a phone number?
ted		Well, I know you're busy
healy		Don't play games with me, Ted.
ted		I don't know, maybe you could poke around for a half day and see if she has five kids and a Labrador.
healy		I don't buy it.
ted		You don't buy what?
healy		Ted, I'm the kind of guy who shoots from the hip. Now I want you to level with me: Did you knock this skirt up?
ted		 No.
healy		She's blackmailing you, right?
ted		 No.
healy		You want her dead, don't you?
ted		You can't be serious.
healy		Do you really expect me to believe this is a straight stalker case?
ted		I'm not a stalker ! She's a friend of mine.
healy		Sure she is. That's why she got an unlisted number and you haven't heard squat from her in a dozen years. Oh you're good, Ted. You're a real piece of work.
ted		 Look, let's forget it. Let's forget the whole thing.
healy		I get one hundred a day plus expenses.
ted		 You get fifty a day, period. It's a business trip, they'll pay for your expenses.
healy		Okay, Ted, I'll do it. But if this chick turns up with a toe tag, I'm rolling over on you.
sully		Healy you dog!
healy		 Fucking Sully! Look at you!
sully		 You hot shit. Ya look fuckin' pisser.
sully		Here's the info you asked for.
healy		Thanks.
sully		You should thank me--that girl was not easy to find. What'd she scam you out of-some insurance dough?
healy		Nah, some guy threw me a few bucks to track down his high school girlfriend.
sully		Stalker, huh?
healy		Big time.
healy		Very nice.
sully		I'm doing okay.  I gotta get ready for work.
healy		Okay? With this pad, the killer wheels? Looks like you really cleaned up your act.
healy		Fuckin' animals. Hey, what do you say we go grab a couple drinks.
healy		Yeah, and you don't drink any less, right?
sully		Take it easy, that's Bill.
healy		Tell Bill to get the fuck off!
sully		 Relax, he just ate.
healy		What are you talking about? You were never an alky, you were a cokehead.
sully		Yeah, well when you quit blow, you gotta quit the booze, too.
healy		Is that right? Well good for you, Sull, I'm proud of you.
sully		Healy, what I just tell you?
healy		This is a light beer. You can't have a light beer?
sully		No I can't.
healy		Sully, it's one fuckin' beer for Christ sakes.  Ooh, the big bad beer's gonna get ya.
sully		Am I?
healy		Bet your ass you are. Now I don't want to hear anymore of your happy horseshit. You gotta learn how to bend a little or believe me...you're gonna break.
sully		Jesus, you know what? This shit doesn't even taste good to me anymore.
healy		Ah, fuck ya then, you big pussy. What are you, spotting?
healy		 Okay, Ted, I found your Mary. Her current address, two-niner-eight Euclid Avenue, Miami Beach. Husband, negative. Children and Labrador, negative. Extremely nice ass, affirmative.
mary		Have you been up all night again?
magda		Bet your ass I have. It's an important job, Neighborhood Watch is.
mary		Neighborhood Watch? Is that what you call listening in on stranger's phone conversations?
magda		These ain't strangers, they're neighbors. This only picks up signals in a half-mile radius.
mary		Meaning?
magda		Meaning these are the people you live amongst, you got a right to know if they're creeps. For instance, did you know there's a guy down the hall cheating on his wife?
mary		 You picked that up on the scanner. We gotta move.
mary		Magda, Puffy barks at everybody.
magda		That's because there's a lot of bad people out there. Hey, Puffy tried to warn you about that Steve guy you was seeing--he was a fucking asswipe--but you had to find out for yourself, didn't you?
mary		Okay, you win. Now try to get some sleep, huh.
healy		 Looks like we got an athlete on our hands.
healy		 Well, from her figure and her appetite, I'm guessing she's either got a bowel disorder or we've got a hurler on our hands.
mary		Get in line. One at a time.
gary		Can I have two, Mary?
mary		Yeah, you can have two halves, just like everyone else.
gary		Thanks.
freddie		Will you marry me, Mary?
mary		Oh yeah, pretty boy? And what about Dolores?
freddie		Would you marry us both, Mary?
mary		Yeah, that'd be a good deal for you, wouldn't it?
healy		 She's just got a big heart.
lisa		Listen to this one--'Seeking sensitive Wasp doctor to share candlelit dinners, long walks in Coconut Grove, marriage.'
brenda		What does this girl want, a corpse? You gotta be more specific: 'Seeking deaf mute with three pound cock and trust fund.'
joanie		No, it should be 'a hockey player with great pecs.'
mary		Ugh, not pecs. Sounds like one of those guys with a fish-net shirt and a banana hammock.
mary		I'm just saying I don't mind a guy with a bit of a beer belly. It means he's a guy. You can have those pretty boys who hang out in a gym all day staring at their reflections.
healy		 A girl after your own heart, Ted.
joanie		I can live with those reflections.
joanie		 Jeez, I don't know where you're ever going to find a guy like that.
mary		But here's the rub. The guy I'm talking about has got to be self-employed.
lisa		You mean, like an architect or something?
mary		Architect, yeah.
mary		No, it's not the money. Creative, yeah, that's good, but it's the freedom I'm talking about. See, this guy has to have a job he could do anywhere. That way we could just up and leave at the drop of a hat.
lisa		And where would you and your beer-bellied architect be leaving to?
mary		I don't know. The Super Bowl, New Orleans Jazz Festival...maybe a couple months in Nepal.
joanie		Yeah, and you'd probably dump the poor guy halfway to Katmandu.
mary		What's that supposed to mean?
joanie		It means you're too hard on guys.
mary		No I'm not.
joanie		Oh come off it, Mare. What about what's-his-name...Steverino? You could've at least passed the baton on that one.
mary		Yeah, Steve. Steve was all right for awhile.
joanie		All right for awhile? The guy's good-looking, rich, witty. He was a god.
lisa		At one point you were talking about marrying him. Come on, why'd you dump him?
mary		I don't know, it was complicated. He's in San Francisco, I'm in Miami.  Besides, Magda's psychic dog hated him.
joanie		Is that old crab still with you? Mary, you said you were putting her up for a month--it's been a year and a half.
mary		Ah, she's okay.
lisa		Mary, cut the crap, what really happened with Steve?
mary		Nothing. I mean, you know my brother.  Warren.
joanie		What? Steve seemed to put up with Warren.
mary		I don't want someone who'll put up with him. I want someone who will enjoy him, the way I do. Do you know what he told my friend Tucker? He said he would've popped the question a lot earlier if Warren wasn't in my life.  Well he is in my life and I'm goddamn lucky to have him. The hell with Steve.
brenda		Well, that's the last time I blow him behind your back.
healy		Hello...? Sully...?  Sully, that you?
healy		Sully, it's Healy. What's going on over there?
sully		 Fuckin' Patrick Healy, you think your shit don't stink. Well I got news for you--you're goddamn right it don't! How the hell are ya?!
healy		Uh, I'm fine. Just wanted to let you know I'll have your car back in a couple hours, I'm still staking out this girl's apartment.
homeless man		Thanks, Mary.
mary		You watch out for yourself, Herb.
magda		Jesus, Mary, you gotta hear this--some cop's staking out this broad's apartment.
mary		No time, Magda, my show's starting.
healy		 Call you back.
sully		 God, I miss ya, ya fuck-
magda		Ah, Christ, I lost 'em.
healy		Fucking Barney...he never learns...
healy		 Here we go, Teddo. Here comes the money shot.
healy		I've got some very, very good news for you, my friend.
ted		Really?  Very, very?
healy		I think your life's about to change.
ted		So you found Mary?
healy		Right there in Liberty City. And you were right, she's really something.
ted		 So she hasn't changed?
healy		That I couldn't. say. Let me ask you something: Was she a little big-boned in high school?
ted		No, not at all.
healy		Well she must've packed on a few pounds over the years.
ted		Mary's a little chubby, huh?
healy		I'd say about a deuce, deuce and a half. Not bad.
ted		So she's married?
healy		Nope. Never been.
ted		Huh?
healy		Four kids, three different guys.
ted		Three different guys?
healy		Well I'm guessing. There's a black kid, two whites, and a midget.
ted		Oh my.
healy		Hyperactive little fuckers, too. Tough to keep up with in a wheelchair, I bet.
ted		She's in a wheelchair?!
healy		Don't look so shocked, it's been a long time. I bet you've changed a lot over the last twelve years, haven't you?
ted		 It's just that...Mary. I wouldn't have thought...
healy		Anyway, the good news is I have all the information you need. Got it from her bookie--nice guy. You should definitely call her, Ted. I mean she's a real sparkplug, that one. She seems determined to get those rugrats off welfare and with your help I'll bet she does it.
ted		Thanks, Healy. Good work.
healy		Ted? Don't you want the name of the housing project?
ted		Uh, that's okay.
healy		You sure, big guy? I'll bet she'd love to hear from you before her mastectomy!
ted		What are you doing?
healy		Oh, uh, I resigned.
ted		Miami?
healy		Yeah, this insurance business is too slow for me. I'm going to go down and try my hand at jai alai.
ted		Jai alai?
healy		Yeah, I don't know why but I always felt at home in the fronton.
ted		Look, uh, I've been thinking about everything you told me.
healy		Good good.
ted		Well I think you're right, I should look her up.
healy		Rollerpig? Are you nuts?
ted		But you said she was a sparkplug...?
healy		I said buttplug. She's heinous.
ted		All the same, I still want to call her. I know it sounds crazy--Mary sure has a lot of troubles in her life--but, I don't know, maybe I can help her out.  The poor thing's had it tough--she's in a wheelchair for Godsakes.
healy		It's a goddamn bunion. It'll heal.
ted		Oh. I thought  That's not it anyway. I know this doesn't make any sense to you, but I just can't turn it off that fast. I still feel something for her.
healy		Okay, tell you what: I'll get her number for you just as soon as she gets back from Japan.
ted		Japan? What's she doing in Japan?
healy		You've heard of mail-order brides? Well they go that way, too.
ted		Mary's a mail-order bride?
healy		Fetched a pretty penny, too. Don't forget, it's the Sumo culture, they pay by the pound there. Sort of like tuna.
ted		That's it, I'm making an oath. I'll never procrastinate about anything again. Life is too fucking short.
dom		Hey, look on the bright side--
ted		 What's that, Dom? What's the bright side?
dom		Well...at least now you know.
ted		I think it was better when I didn't. It was kind of inspiring to know there was someone so pure in the world.
ted		What's so funny?
dom		I'm sorry, it's just that you're taking this all wrong, pal. Don't you see? You're liberated. I feel liberated. I mean here you've been in therapy thinking you blew it with the greatest girl ever, and it turns out that getting your dick stuck in your zipper was the best thing that ever happened to you!
ted		Wait a second, I never told you that.
dom		Christ, Ted, I was only four towns away.
ted		Maybe you're right. I should look on the bright side. I mean, I've still got my health...  I'm out of here. I've got to get up at six a.m. to move my boss's brother into his apartment.
dom		What? On your day off? Do you even know the guy?
ted		Never met him.
dom		Jesus, Ted, you've got to finish that damn novel so you can quit that stupid magazine.
ted		Amen to that.
healy		Hit a house! Bite bite!  Haven't swung the wrenches in a while.
mary		Yeah, don't talk in someone's backswing.
healy		Thanks.
mary		 No thanks.
healy		Oh cripes. Do you have change for a dollar? All I have is these stupid Nepalese coins.
mary		 Nepal? Have you been?
healy		Not in months. I don't even know why I bought the damn place.
mary		You own a home there?
healy		Well...it's just a condo really. Right outside Katmandu.
mary		Wow. That's a place I've always wanted to go. Is it true the mountains are so tall you can't see the tops?
healy		Not 'til you get about three hundred yards from the summit. That's been my experience anyway.
mary		 Thanks.
mary		Well, it was nice meeting you, again.
healy		Same here again.
mary		By the way, what's your name?
healy		Pat Healy.
mary		Don't you want to know my name?
healy		I already know it, Mary.
mary		 How'd you know that?
healy		It's right there on your golf bag.
mary		What are you doing with all these blueprints?
healy		Some buildings I'm working on.
mary		Are you...an architect?
healy		Well, just until I get my PGA Tour card.
mary		What's that?
healy		I work with retards.
mary		 I beg your pardon?
healy		You know...  ...the guys who ride the short bus.
mary		 Isn't that a little politically incorrect?
healy		The hell with that. No one's gonna tell me who I can and can't work with.
mary		No, I mean
healy		--There's this one kid, we call him Mongo on account of he's a mongoloid. He got out of his cage once and--
mary		--He's in a cage?!
healy		Well it's more of an enclosure really.
mary		They keep him confined? That's bullshit!
healy		That's what I said, so I went out and got him a leash you know, one of those clothesline runners for the backyard. He's got plenty of room out there to dig. The kid's really blossomed. Now I can take him to ball games, movies--you know, happy stuff.
mary		That sounds like fun.
healy		Yeah, it's fun for them, but it's heaven for me.  Ooh, hey, I gotta run.
mary		 Look, uh, I was thinking maybe we should go have dinner sometime.
ted		 What?
ted		 I'll try to be more careful.
ted		The thing's kind of heavy.
ted		No, I just meant...
ted		 It wasn't my truck--I was helping out a guy in a wheelchair.
ted		Out getting coffee.
ted		Bob, do you remember Mary?
ted		Mary.
ted		A convention? How'd you see her at a convention?
ted		Babe?
ted		Mary's a babe!
dom		What?
ted		My Mary--she's not in Japan, she's single, and she's got no rugrats. She does have a little gambling problem, she plays the football cards a bit too much, but she's a babe, a surgeon babe!
dom		Huh? But why did Healy?
ted		Well think about it.
dom		No You mean...?
ted		Uh-huh.
dom		The lazy fuck just didn't bother to look her up.
ted		 That sneaky prick was probably practicing his jai alai.
dom		Well then you've got to call her, man.
ted		Fuck calling her. I'm going down there.
magda		So who's the lucky guy?
mary		Name's Patrick, I met him at the driving range.
magda		Good lookin'?
mary		He's no Steve Young.
magda		Then why you going out with him if he's a schlep?
mary		Come on, Magda  It's like that movie Harold and Maude.
magda		I don't watch the new ones.
mary		This one's almost thirty years old. It's about a young kid and an old lady who fall in love.
magda		That's exactly why I don't watch 'em anymore--it's bullshit! Why the hell would an old lady go for a young kid?
mary		The point is, love isn't about money or social standing or age, it's about connecting with someone, having things in common kindred spirits.
magda		Fuck kindred spirits. My little Puffy here's gonna tell you all you need to know about this guy in about two seconds flat. If he starts yapping, he's a loser; if Puffy's relaxed...well, you got yourself a keeper.
healy		 Oh, Pufferball likes his little tum-tum rubbed, doesn't he now?
mary		Wow, I've never seen him like this. He doesn't usually like guys.
magda		You mean he doesn't like bad guys.
healy		'That right?
magda		He can tell you're an animal nut. You are, aren't ya?
healy		Truth is I usually get along better with animals than with people. In Nepal the villagers call me 'Kin-tan-tee', which means 'man who is loved by many animals...  ...who love him a lot, too...and so on.'
magda		Would you like a glass of tea or something?
healy		You got a brew?
mary		Sure.  Uh, Magda, why don't you get some more cheese and crackers...?
magda		Oh, yeah, of course, dear.
healy		 Great.
healy		 Love a little bundt cake if you have some!
magda		Bundt cake?
mary		 Must have a sweet tooth. See if you can find some cookies.
healy		 Come on, man, stay away from the light!
magda		All I had was some Funny Bones--how does that sound, honey?
healy		 Fine. Fine.
mary		Here you go.  What's that smell?
healy		The museum? I thought we were going out to dinner?
mary		We will, but first I have a surprise.
healy		A surprise?
mary		The architecture exhibit! My friend Tucker is going to be here. He's an architect, too. You guys will have tons to talk about.
mary		I know he's around here someplace.
healy		 What say we get outta here and go crush a bucket?
mary		We just got here thirty seconds ago. Isn't this stuff great?
healy		Deco.
mary		Would you call that a portico or a vestibule?
healy		That...? Vestibule.
mary		How about--?
healy		When you look at architecture, try not to concern yourself with the pieces--look at the building in its totalitarianism.
mary		Tucker!
tucker		 Come on, like you mean it.
mary		Tucker, this is my friend Pat Healy. Healy and Tucker shake hands.
tucker		Pleasure to meet you, Patrick.
healy		Same here.
mary		Pat's an architect, too.
tucker		Hey, no kidding? Where are your offices?
healy		 Mainly I work out of Boston.
tucker		Boston, huh? Did you get your degree up there?
healy		Yes yes, I did get my degree up there.
tucker		Harvard?
healy		You bet.
tucker		 Did you study under Kim Greene?
tucker		Kim and I are close friends!
healy		Well, I'll tell her I ran into you.
tucker		You mean him.
healy		Well...that's debatable.
tucker		Really? But he's been married for twenty years--they've got six kids.
healy		Nice smokescreen, isn't it?
mary		Pat does projects all over the world.
tucker		 Where would I have seen your work?
healy		Have you been to  Let's see--Santiago, Chile?
tucker		Absolutely! I was there twice last year. Which building is yours?
healy		Do you know the...soccer stadium?
tucker		Did you build the Estadio Olympico?
healy		No...just down the street, the Amigo Tower.
tucker		I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with it. What style?
healy		Uh, sort of nouveau deco...with a big vestibule. Check it out next time you're up there.
tucker		You know, I really should take your card.
healy		 Oh look, it's Doob! Will you excuse me a minute, Tucker?
healy		 Dooby, you old sheep-fucker! How the hell are ya?
man		My name's Mel.
healy		Oh, sorry. Anyone ever tell you you look just like Jim Dubois?
man		The sheepfucker?
hitchhiker		Thanks for picking me up.
ted		No prob, I could use the company. I've been on the road going on fifteen hours straight.
hitchhiker		I know how you feel--I been standing in the same spot for the last five hours. You know it's against the law to pick up a hitchhiker in this state.
ted		That must make it tough.
hitchhiker		Sucks. So what's up? You some kind of salesman or something?
ted		Nah. I'm...I'm nothing.
hitchhiker		Oh. Well I am.
ted		Hm?
hitchhiker		A salesman--that's what I am. I mean, I'm gonna be anyway. I'm starting my own company--video sales--just as soon as I get enough seed money.
ted		'That right? Good for you.
hitchhiker		Yeah, you wouldn't believe my idea--it's a home run. You ever hear of Eight-Minute Abs?
ted		The exercise tape? Sure, I've seen it on T.V.
hitchhiker		Two million copies it sold last year. Two million, man. But not next year--my idea's gonna blow them outta the water. Get this:  Seven-Minute Abs.
ted		I see where you're going.
hitchhiker		 Think about it. You walk into a video store and you see Eight-Minute Abs and right next to it you see Seven-Minute Abs--which one you gonna spring for?
ted		I'd go with the seven.
hitchhiker		Bingo. Especially since we guarantee you'll get every bit as good a work-out.
ted		How do you guarantee that?
hitchhiker		Well it's the company motto: 'If you ain't happy we'll send you the extra minute.'
ted		Huh. That sounds great.  Unless someone else comes out with Six-Minute Abs.
ted		What the--?
ted		 Wait a second, it's not what you think.
ted		No! I was pissing!
police officer		Yeah, I'll bet you all were. Come on, in the truck.
ted		 Okay, take it easy, you don't have to push.
dom		Oh my God. Is that...?
dom's wife		 Told you he was gay.
ted		I was taking a leak!
healy		That grandmother of yours--she's really something.
mary		Magda? She's not my grandmother--actually she rents the apartment right next to mine. Her husband passed away a couple years ago so she doesn't like to be alone.
healy		And it doesn't cramp your style?
mary		Sadly, no. Well except for the lint.
healy		Lint?
mary		Yeah, I think it's that dog of hers running around on the rug all day--just makes for a lot of lint. Look at this...
healy		You know, sometimes I wish I could be like Magda and not go home. I'd like to just bounce around for awhile, do a little traveling...
mary		Why bounce when you have your own condo in Nepal to go to?
healy		Ah, I'd sell that. Start fresh in a new place, quit the architect game, slow things down, read more books, see more movies...
mary		You're a movie buff?
healy		Try to be. It's tough going with the crap they make today. If Dumb and Dumber's the best they've got to offer I say thanks but no thanks.
mary		Have you seen it?
healy		No. But the Boston Globe critic Jay Carr hated it.
mary		A fucking moron.
healy		Huh. I guess I just wish they made them like they used to. You know, something like The Heartbreak Kid...or Harold and Maude.
mary		Harold and Maude is my all-time favorite movie.
healy		Ouch. Come on, don't bust my chops. I know it's corny, but I do love it.
mary		Pat, I'm not kidding. I really think it's the greatest--
healy		--Love story of our time.
mary		Yeah.
healy		Wow. I thought I was the only one.
mary		So...
healy		Yeah...I guess this is it, huh?
mary		I guess.
healy		Well, I'll see ya.
mary		What?
healy		No, forget it, it was stupid.
mary		Come on, what were you going to say?
healy		Nah, really, it was moronic.
mary		Just say it.
healy		Could I feel your bosoms before I go?
healy		Okey-dokey, so tomorrow night?
detective franek		Man, they never look like you'd expect.
detective cavallo		That's probably how he got the victim to drop his guard.
detective franek		Where'd they find the body?
detective cavallo		In a big red bag on the front passenger seat. All hacked up--fucking gruesome--a real psycho, this one.
ted		 I'm telling you, I did not solicit sex! I was just stopping to go the bathroom, next thing I know I tripped over something--well someone--and, POOF, there's cops and lights and--
detective franek		Okay, calm down, Ted, we believe you.  The problem is we found your friend in the car.
ted		Oh. The hitchhiker.  That's what this is all about.
detective cavallo		So you admit it?
ted		Guilty as charged. I'm not gonna play games with you. I could give you a song and dance but what's the point? I did it and we all know it.  The hitcher himself told me it's illegal The irony.
detective cavallo		Well, uh, can you tell us his name?
ted		Jeez, I didn't catch it.
detective franek		So he was a stranger? It was totally random?
ted		 He was the first hitcher I saw, what can I tell you? Now cut to the chase, how much trouble am I in?
detective franek		First tell us why you did it.
ted		Why I did it?  I don't know. Boredom? I thought I was doing the guy a favor.
detective cavallo		This wasn't your first time, was it, Ted? How many we talking?
ted		Hitchhikers? I don't know--fifty...a hundred maybe--Who keeps track?
detective cavallo		You sonofabitch! You're gonna fry!!!!
mary		Mornin', Jane.
tucker		What's up, Doc?
mary		Tucker, you look different some how. Did you do something with your hair?
tucker		The teeth, the teeth. I got 'em capped.
mary		Oh yeah, they look great.
tucker		You ever been laid in this office?
mary		Behave yourself, Tucker.  Come on, what are you doing here?
tucker		I wanted to talk to you about your friend Patrick.
mary		Not long at all, but I really like him.  Okay, I know he's a little different, Tucker, but that's what I like about him. He's a guy. A real guy. He dresses like a dork and eats corndogs and he isn't always politically correct and he probably farts, too. And that's okay with me.
tucker		That's what you've been looking for--a farter?
mary		I've been looking for a guy--not one of these South Beach pussies.
tucker		 Look, it's just that something about him struck me as odd last night. He gave me this funny vibe. Anyway, I called some friends back east. They don't know of any architect named Patrick Healy and he's not listed as a Harvard alumnus.
healy		Fuck!!
tucker		I thought so. Anyway, I hope you don't think I'm being meddlesome. I just think you should be careful with this guy.
mary		 No no no, Tucker, thank you.
tucker		I mean let's face it, Mary, you're beautiful, you've got money, you trust people--I'm just saying, there's a lot of psychos out there.
mary		 I appreciate you looking out for me.
detective franek		On behalf of the entire South Carolina law enforcement community, I would like to offer our heartfelt apologies for any pain or temporary inconvenience we may have caused you, Mr. Peloquin.
detective franek		At exactly 10:48 this morning a man was apprehended not far from where you were arrested. He was identified as an escaped mental patient and subsequently confessed to the murder that you were being held for. Lab tests confirmed a fingerprint match on the bag.
ted		 So...I'm free to go?
detective cavallo		No harm, no foul?
ted		 I guess.
detective franek		By the way, there's somebody here to see you.
dom		You are one lucky sonofabitch, you know that?
ted		I am?
dom		Didn't they tell you? That hitcher was just about to cut your throat when you stopped to take a leak. You got a fucking horseshoe up your ass, man.
ted		Yeah feels like it.
dom		Flew.  Told my wife I was going to a Promise Keepers convention.
ted		 Shoot.
dom		Remember our friend Healy? Well, I didn't know where to mail his last paycheck so I sent my assistant by his mother's apartment. Turns out there is no diabetic mom. Landlord said she's been dead for ten years.
ted		And this adversely affects me how...?
dom		Don't you see?--Healy lied to us about everything! The landlord said when he got back from Miami he kept talking about falling for some doctor named Mary!
ted		Huh? What? No...My Mary? Mary wouldn't go for him....would she?
dom		His address in Miami. You know, when you think about it, we really don't know the first thing about this guy.
ted		Jesus Christ what have I done?
lisa		You're not seriously thinking about going out with this guy again?
joannie		Mary, he sounds like a psycho!
magda		Would you hens quit ya cackling and let her do what she wants to do. Puffy liked him and Puffy's never wrong.
brenda		Mary, the guy's full of shit.
mary		What if he's not? What if Tucker just made an honest mistake?
lisa		What if he didn't?
mary		I don't know how I can bail now, he's going to be here any minute.
joannie		Well then blow him off when he gets here.
mary		But you didn't meet him. He seems so I don't know...perfect...kind of.
brenda		He has a big cock, doesn't he?
magda		Hey hey, what did you say Pat's last name was?
mary		Healy.
magda		I think you better listen to this.
brenda		We hit the motherlode.
mary		We shouldn't be listening to this.
lisa		Mr. Perfect, huh?
mary		 Turn it up, Magda.
healy		 Ahh.
sully		 ...the hope you gave Freddie the leper in Calcutta...
joannie		 I love this man.
healy		Look, I did all those things for myself. I'll be honest with you, I'm a selfish prick. I get a high from helping all of God's creatures. An honest to goodness high.
sully		 That's bullshit, man you, uh, you were on the front line. Remember the, uh, malaria the, uh, typhoon fever that vicious strain of genital herpes?
healy		 Oh Mary. Look, there's something I have to tell you. I'm not
mary		All set.
healy		You look great.  Hey, Mare, do I have a rip in the back of these pants?
ted		Fuck me.  Let's go home.
dom		No! You've gone through way too much to back down now. Get over there and do something--I can't stand watching this.
mary		Whoa, whoa, how's my stomach taste?
healy		How's my stomach taste, she says.  Hey thanks for picking up the lunch tab, Mare. Sorry I forgot my wallet. I feel like a dog.
mary		Forget it. It was...fun.
ted		Holy shit, there's Warren.
warren		Franks and beans!
ted		Jesus, I think her brother spotted me.
warren		Beans and franks.
mary		Give it a rest, War. You just ate.
healy		Aw, leave him alone, he's just got a big appetite.  Am I right?
warren		Huh?
healy		I said you've got a big app--
mary		Warren!
dom		Attaboy!
mary		Are you okay?
mary		 Sure.
dom		Well? What are you waiting for?
ted		I don't know what to say.
dom		Tell her the truth about Healy! Blow the schmuck out of the water.
ted		Are you crazy? I've unleashed a psycho on her. She's gonna be fucking pissed.  She's even more beautiful than I remember.
dom		Get over there, you pussy! She's leaving!
ted		You asshole, what are you--  Mary! Is that you?
mary		 Who's that?
ted		It is you! It's me...Ted. From Rhode Island Ted.
mary		Oh my God...Ted.  What are you...? I can't believe this. I haven't seen you since--
ted		Yup, that's right. Junior prom...kinda.
mary		And did everything--?
ted		Oh yeah, healed right up. No visible scars.
warren		Good, Ted. Piggy back ride?
ted		I'm gonna take a rain check.
mary		I can't believe he remembered you. He never remembers anybody.  You know I tried to call you for weeks after that.
ted		Really? I never got a message.
mary		That's weird. I talked to your brother Jimmy five or six times.
ted		He's dead.
mary		 Oh, Ted I'm so sorry to hear that.
ted		 I mean, good in that it was very quick.
mary		Oh. So...what brings you down here?
ted		Funny story. You see, me and a buddy of mine decided to...ah...you know...just ...drive down.
mary		Well you look great. Are you married, do you have kids?
ted		Nope, nope--dodged a few bullets.  God, I cannot believe I'm standing here with Mary Jenson.
mary		Actually, it's Mary Brooks now.
ted		 Oh...are you...?
mary		Nope, haven't walked the plank yet.  There was this guy back in college who was bothering me...got kind of ugly--a restraining order, the whole bit. Anyway, when I got out of Princeton I changed my name as a precaution.
ted		Jeez...that sounds awful. Hey, what do you say we go out to dinner tonight, catch up on old times?
mary		Didn't we just do that?
ted		Mary, we haven't seen each other in twelve years.  Don't make me wait another day.
mary		Tell me where you're staying. I'll pick you up at eight.
magda		Don't bet on it. Last time I had a pap smear the guy needed leather gloves and an oyster shucker.
mary		So maybe I could find a nice gentleman to take you to the movies.
magda		Knock it off, Pollyanna, just 'cause you're in love doesn't mean everyone else has to be.
mary		Love? Come on, I wouldn't call it love.
magda		Oh no? I ain't seen you beaming like this since you broke ninety on the Blue Monster.
healy		No!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
magda		Do I sense a chill in the air?
mary		Oh, Magda, I let my head get in the way of my love life. I always pick guys on what I feel in here.  But with this Pat guy my head kept saying "Grow up, Mary. You have a lot in common with this one, you'll grow to feel something for him." But it never happened.
healy		 Hey, Patty-boy here. Sorry I missed ya, but I'm out rustling up some champagne and roses in preparation for the greatest birthday of my life. Hope you and yours are having a good day, too.
mary		Uh, hi Pat, it's me, Mary. Just wanted to say I'm...looking forward to tonight.
magda		You vicious bitch, how do you sleep at night?
mary		I can't do it--I just found out it's his birthday.  I guess I've gotta cancel on Ted.
mary		 Tucker...come on in.
tucker		There she is--I brought you a little thirst-quencher, Mag.
magda		Oh, you are sweet.
tucker		No, I'm not. I just want to get you-drunk so you'll pass out and I can have my way with Mary.
mary		Can I pour you one?
tucker		Thanks, but I've got to be going. Unfortunately, Doc, this isn't a social visit.
mary		What's up?
tucker		Well...I've got a little more news about your friend Healy.
mary		I know what you're going to say, but he already told me everything. I know he's not an architect.
mary		Tucker, I appreciate you doing all this, but I'm really strapped for time here and--
tucker		Mary, the man's a killer.
mary		 What...?
tucker		I've got a friend in the Boston police department. He faxed me this this morning. I'll just give you the highlights.  After a short stint as a petty thief, Patrick R. Healy graduated to armed robbery by the age of fourteen. At sixteen he committed his first murder--a pretty teacher's aid named Molly Pettygrove. He was incarcerated until age twenty-two when, despite a grim psychological profile, the state was forced to release him. In his mid-twenties and again in his early thirties he was suspected of homicides in the states of Utah and Washington. Unfortunately, the bodies were so badly decomposed that there wasn't enough evidence to hold him, and on and on and so forth and so on.
mary		Magda!
magda		The little shit lied to me about that guy!
mary		 I can't believe this is happening. I'm supposed to be meeting him in an hour.
tucker		Okay, just calm down. It's going to be okay.
magda		Why you two never hooked up is beyond me.
mary		Magda's right, I'm so lucky to have you in my life.
tucker		Don't get all gooey on me now, you'll give me a big head.  The important thing, Doctor, is you've got to distance yourself as much as possible without pissing this psycho off.
mary		Yeah, yeah. Okay, I think I know what to do. I'll call him right now.
healy		Hi, I'm out drinking champagne and roses...and I'm really happy. Leave a message. BEEP.
healy		 You're gonna pay, fucker.
ted		Oh God, I'm fucking nervous. I don't know if I'm ready for this, man.
dom		Just relax. Have you hit the cash machine?
ted		 Got cash.
dom		Car clean? Plenty of gas?
ted		Check.
dom		Mints?
ted		Copped a tin of Altoids at the car wash.
dom		Okay, sounds like you're all set. Just clean the pipes and it's a go.
ted		Hm?
dom		You know, clean the pipes.
ted		Pipes? What are you talking about?
dom		You jerk off before all big dates, right? Tell me you jerk off before your big dates.
ted		No.
dom		Why's that?
ted		I'm usually too tired to be.
dom		Wrong. It's because you ain't got the baby batter in your brain any more. That'll fuck with your head, that stuff will.
ted		 Huh.
dom		The most honest moment in a man's life is the five minutes after he's blown a load. That's a medical fact. And it's because you're no longer trying to get laid. You're actually thinking like a girl. They love that.
ted		Jesus Christ you're right.
dom		You bet your ass I'm right. You don't go out with a loaded gun, you empty the barrels!
ted		 Holy shit, I've been going out with a loaded gun!
dom		People get hurt that way.
ted		Hey.
mary		Hi, Ted.
ted		You look great.
mary		Thanks.
ted		Hm?
mary		On your ear, you've got something.
ted		Sure.
mary		Oh great, I ran out.
tucker		 Okay, Pat, take it easy--don't do anything stupid.
healy		Who the fuck do you think you are making up that bullshit about me?!
tucker		Whoa, whoa--I don't know what you're talking about.
healy		Maybe this'll jog your memory.
tucker		Okay, okay, I might've gotten some bad information.
healy		That stalker Ted got to you, right? You're working for him, aren't you, you little shit?
tucker		Who?
healy		This is your last chance, you fuck. Now either you come clean or I'm going to kick your ass from here to Tallahassee.
tucker		I LOVE HER, OKAY?!
healy		You what?
tucker		You heard me, goddamnit. I...I love her.
healy		What do you mean?
tucker		I mean I'm a fucking fraud. I'm no architect. Don't be a putz--who's been to Santiago twice in a year?  Estadio Olimpico--please!
healy		But...but you knew people at Harvard.
tucker		I knew shit. The only thing I knew was that you were a fake and I made up everything else.  My real name's Norm. I deliver pizzas.
healy		Bullshit!
ted		Thanks, that's great.
waiter		Madame?
mary		Thank you.
ted		Now by killer, you mean...?
mary		I mean he murdered someone and did time back in Boston. The guy's a freak.
ted		 Jeez, Mary...I'm...
mary		Well, lucky for me I found out. Thank God I have friends like Tucker.  Let's talk about you.
tucker		...So then in '94 I went back to Dade Community College for a semester and when the Wal-Mart cashier job fell through I hooked up with the Pizza Barn.
healy		And you met Mary how?
tucker		Just dumb luck. I delivered a pie to her one night and she answered the door in her nightgown--that was it for me. I went home that night, shaved my beard, and a week later I was laid out in her office with a broken back.
healy		How'd you manage that one?
tucker		 Friend. Baseball bat.
healy		Nice.
tucker		Oh yeah, the plan was going along just fine until you showed up.
healy		Hey, hey, hey, I'm not the one who started telling bald-faced lies about the competition--that's crossing the line!
tucker		What line? The day you first laid your oily rap on my future wife you started a war!
healy		Future wife? Get real, man--you're nothing more than a glorified brother in her eyes.
tucker		Why you son of a--
healy		Okay, calm down, calm down--the bottom line is neither of us are going to get her if we don't do something about that headcase she's with now.
mary		You hit the ball pretty good for a fourteen.
ted		 No short game.
mary		We should play some time...I mean, if you can afford to lose some money.
ted		 What are you?
mary		Twenty-two.
ted		Bullshit, a twenty-two doesn't carry a one-iron--don't sandbag me, lady.
mary		Okay, sometimes I'm a nineteen.
ted		That's more like it.  Two more nitrate-sicles please.
mary		Nitrate-sicles--I like that.
ted		I say they should put more meats on a stick, you know? They got a lot of sweets on sticks--popsicles, fudgesicles, lollipops--but hardly any meat.
mary		I agree there should be more.
ted		You know what I'd like to see? Meat in a cone. You could put corned beef hash in a cone, or chopped liver.
mary		I like it. And think of the toppings--cheese, mushrooms, mint jelly
ted		Not to mention ketchup and hot peppers.
mary		It's too bad you don't live down here, Ted.
ted		 Yeah?
mary		We've got a lot in common.
ted		Well...why don't you move back?
mary		Ah, my roots here are too deep. I love my practice, the people I work with, Warren's got a nice thing going  Why don't you just move down here and marry me?
mary		So you're a writer?
ted		Trying to be.
mary		Well good for you. I bet it works out for you.
ted		We'll see. If it doesn't, what the hell, at least I gave it a shot.
mary		That's right. And the good thing is you can do it anywhere.
ted		What about you, Mare? How the hell'd you manage to stay single?
mary		I don't know...My friends think I'm too picky. I think I'm just a weirdo magnet. I did come close once--just last year, in fact. There was this guy he lived in San Francisco.
tucker		 That stalkin' son-of-a-bitch!
healy		Fucking sickening.
healy		How many is that?
tucker		Four.
healy		That seems like a lot of speed for a little pooch--you sure it won't kill him?
tucker		I never said that.
mary		... and then it was all over.  We haven't spoken since.
ted		 Wow. That's too bad. He sounds almost perfect.
mary		Yeah...almost.  You want to come up and watch Sportscenter?
ted		Uh no. I think I'm gonna get out while I'm ahead.
mary		Ted...you're not that far ahead.
ted		Look, Mary, the truth is...I'll be in town for a while now but I don't think we should see each other for a few weeks.
mary		 Why not?
ted		Well...to be honest....I'm really crazy about you and it's making me nervous and when I get nervous I'm not myself and I'm afraid I'm going to doing something really dumb before we get started so I think I should just lay back until I regain my composure.
mary		That's really sweet, Ted, but you should save it for one of your books.
ted		All right, let's go.
mary		Magda, what are you doing?
magda		Oh, hi hon. Just straightening up.
mary		Where's Puffy?
magda		Ah, he was being a pest so I put him in the bathroom.
mary		 Um, Ted, I need a moment with Magda--would you let the dog out of the bathroom.
ted		Yeah, sure.
ted		 Uh, Mare, what kind of dog is Puffy?
magda		Stop it, you're hurting him!
ted		 Tell him...to calm down.
ted		 Hey.
mary		Did you hire Pat Healy to follow me around?
ted		 What do you mean?
mary		It's not true...right, Ted?
ted		Well, funny story there. You see, uh, it started out as a uh...yeah...it's true. =
mary		Get out.
ted		Wait, hold on, Mary--it's not as bad as it sounds. I certainly didn't know--
mary		That you put a murderer on my trail?
ted		Well yeah, I didn't know much about him. I just thought--
mary		What did you think, Ted? That you could spy on me and trick me into thinking you were someone I could...really go for?
ted		Mary, I swear I wasn't trying to trick you.
mary		Then what the fuck did you do it for?
ted		I did it because because I'd never stopped thinking about you and if I didn't find you I knew my life would never be good again.
mary		 Please leave.
ted		 Mary, come on...
mary		Go!
ted		 Okay.
ted		Hello...?
healy		Ho-ly shit.
tucker		Hey, this is a pretty nice place.
healy		Sully...! What the fuck happened here?!
ted		Surprised?
tucker		Hey, buddy, don't do anything rash now.
ted		 Who the fuck are you?
healy		He's in love with Mary, too.
ted		You fucked me, man? Why would you do that?
healy		 What do you mean 'why'?
ted		Answer the question, shitball.
tucker		I think everybody could use a drink.
healy		Look, you asked me to follow your girl around, and I did and I started to like her, and then I realized I just couldn't in good conscience do it.
ted		 Do what?
healy		Turn her over to a stalker.
ted		What?! You're calling me a stalker?
healy		That's right--if you weren't you would've looked for her yourself!
ted		You're a sick man, you know that?
healy		Yeah well fuck you! You just can't stand the fact that it was my turn.
ted		Your turn?
healy		 That's right, hot shot! My turn. What's the matter with me, huh? Why can't I ever get the great girl? Give the big pig with the B.O. to Healy, right? Well I was sick of it, man! No more--it was my turn. It was time for me...time for me...to be happy.
ted		Well you didn't have to blow us both out of the water. Jesus Christ, just because she found out about you, why'd you have to take me down with you?
healy		I don't know what you're talking about.
ted		I'm talking about the letter, asshole.
healy		What?
ted		Are you telling me you didn't send Mary a letter outlining our deal?
healy		Why the fuck would I do that? I'd be screwing myself.
tucker		What?
healy		You fucking prick, we had a deal--you said you wouldn't fuck me and I wouldn't fuck you until we had this fuck out of the fucking picture.  You crossed the line, man.
tucker		Whoa, whoa, you're getting crazy now. Why would I cross the line--what do you think I got no pride?
healy		Oh that makes a lot of sense. Why would I rat myself out?
tucker		Like I'm going to try to figure out a guy who's idea of courting is blowing farts in the chick's face
healy		You were following us?
tucker		Don't flatter yourself--I was following her, I always do. How the hell you think I got rid of Mary's boyfriend Steve?
ted		You mean...Steve didn't say all that stuff about Warren?
tucker		Are you shitting me--Mr. Goody-Two-Shoes? He was like a fucking eagle scout. You two should be kissing my balls--if it wasn't for me, she might've married that schmuck!
ted		The hell with you both--I'm out of here.
healy		 Oh...Sully.
tucker		Look, if it wasn't you who sent the letter, and it wasn't me who sent it?
mary		Woogie? What are what are you doing here?
dom		Did you get my letter, Mare? The one about Ted?
mary		You sent that?
dom		Uh-huh. I was worried about you.
mary		Well...thank you. But...you know you're not supposed to be within four hundred yards of me.
dom		 That's what I want to tell ya. I've been through two years of extensive psychotherapy and you know what? You were right--I needed help.
mary		 That's great, Woogie, I'm happy you're better--you seem...good--but...you put me through quite an ordeal, you know.
dom		Look at me.
mary		Woogie, I caught you red-handed.
dom		All right, I did, but I was in a weird place then.
healy		Who the hell's Woogie?
mary		I'm asking you to leave.
dom		 I'm not leaving...
mary		Stop it!
dom		Just one pair! You owe me that much, you heartless bitch!
healy		Dom, you're pathetic, fucking over your friend Ted like that.
dom		What? You fucked him over, too.
healy		He's no friend of mine.
magda		What the hell's going on here?
healy		We're in love with your roommate.
magda		Aw, Christ, I can't take it anymore. I'm gonna pack my bags and go back to my own place.
mary		Tucker, where are your crutches?
tucker		 Interesting query, Mary...
healy		Shut the fuck up and tell her the truth.
tucker		Well isn't this nice--now we've got the whole gang together.
ted		Dom? What are you?
dom		You stole her from me. Now I want her back.
mary		 Woogie and I went out for awhile in high school.
ted		 You're Woogie?
dom		Dom Wooganowski. Duh.
ted		But but you're married. You have kids a great wife.
dom		If you're so happy with them, please, be my guest.
healy		If I may I have a proposal.
mary		Are you crazy? Why would I pick you? You're a murderer.
tucker		Uh, well...not exactly. You see, I exaggerated a little there.
mary		You mean he's not a criminal?
healy		God no!  I'm just a pathological liar!
mary		Tucker...not you, too?
tucker		Name's Norm. I live up in Pompano with my folks.
mary		Oh Jesus...
brett favre		Hi, Mary.
healy		What the hell is Brett Favre doing here?
brett favre		We're in town to play the Dolphins.
ted		I called him. I told him to pick up Warren and get over here.
brett favre		That's right, Mare. And you know I'll always be true to you.
dom		Aw shit, this isn't fair.
ted		 I realized something tonight. I'm no better than any of these guys. None of them really love you...they just fixated on you because of how you made them feel. But that's not real love...Thank you for letting me see that. Now I can get on with the rest of my life.
tucker		Oh please...
dom		Don't listen to him, Mary. It's a ploy.
healy		You are so full of shit, Strohman. Are you going to stand here and tell us that you aren't in love with this girl?
ted		Yeah...that's what I'm telling you.  See you, Mare.
warren		Huh...?
ted		See you, Warren.
warren		Bye, Ted.
dom		Hey, Brett, any chance I can get you to autograph one of these pumps for me?
mary		Ted!
ted		What what are you doing here?
mary		You forgot your keys!
ted		 Oh. Thanks.
mary		Did you mean what you said back there, Ted?
ted		 I...I just want you to be happy, Mary.
mary		But I think I'd be happiest...with you.
ted		You're fucking with me, right?
mary		Oh yeah, that'd make golf real fun--the guy doesn't even drink beer or gamble.
ted		Really?
mary		Really.
mary		Ted, no, no....!
ted		Mary....Oh Mary, I love you.
mary		I love you too, Ted.  I think I always have.
lady		Over here! I found his foot! It was in the storm drain!
mary		All right, everyone, let's fan out and look for the penis!
****Dialogues from script :They.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Thing.txt****

norris		What the fu...
garry		Norwegian... Jans Bolen.
fuchs		Gotta be from the Norwegian camp.
garry		How far's that?
fuchs		'Bout eighty kilos southwest.
garry		 That far?
garry		You catch anything he was saying?
childs		Am I starting to look Norwegian to you, Bwana?
norris		Yeah. I caught that he wanted the better part of my ass to come apart.
bennings		What in the hell were they doing...? Flying that low... shooting at a dog... at us...
clark		I'll be here a while. Shell's pretty deep.
sanchez		It's no go.
blair		Well, get to somebody. Anybody. We've got to report this mess.
sanchez		Look, I haven't been able to reach shit in two weeks. Doubt if anybody's talked to anybody on the whole continent.
nauls		Maybe we at war with Norway.
palmer		Was wondering when "El Capitan" was going to get a chance to use his pop gun.
garry		How long have they been stationed there?
fuchs		Says here about eight weeks.
garry		 That's not enough time for guys to go bonkers.
nauls		Bullshit, Bwana, sweetheart. Five minutes is enough to put a man over down here.
palmer		Damn straight.
nauls		I mean Palmer been the way he is since the first day.
garry		How many in their party?
fuchs		 Started with six. There'd be four others left.
garry		Nothing we can do about that.
garry		In this weather?
bennings		Winds are going to let up a tad, next couple of hours.
garry		A tad?
bennings		Can't condone it myself. But it is a short haul. Hour there, hour back.
palmer		Shit, Doc, I'll give you the lift if...
garry		Forget it, Palmer. Doc, you're a pain in the ass.
garry		 Norris, go get MacReady.
norris		 MacReady ain't going nowhere. Bunkered in till spring.
garry		Just go get him.
norris		 Anyway, he's probably ripped.
voice		Bishop to knight four.
macready		Poor little son of a bitch. You're starting to lose it, aren't you?
voice		Pawn takes queen at knight four.
voice		Rook to knight six. Check.
macready		...Cheating bastard...
norris		You jerking off or just pissed?
macready		We got any more of those electronic chess things down in supply?
norris		Get your gear on.
macready		What for?
macready		...Craziness... This is goddamn insane...
garry		...Quit the griping MacReady. Sooner you're there -- sooner you're back.
macready		It's against regulations to go up this time of year!
macready		So, I don't want to end up crawling around with them when we go down.
garry		Look, if you're going to keep bitching, MacReady -- Palmer's offered to take him up...
macready		What are you talking?! He's had two months training in those choppers!
palmer		 Four!
macready		 What is it out there, anyway? Forty- five knots?
bennings		Sixteen.
macready		 And the horse you rode in on. Sixteen for how long?! You can't predict this time of year...
clark		Mac's really taking it up, huh?
macready		Anybody in there?!
macready		Come to help you!!
macready		Give me a hand.
macready		Hey, Sweden...! You okay?
macready		Sweden?!
macready		Come on, Copper.
macready		Hey, Sweden!!!
macready		Norwegian of the Month, Doc. Harmless.
macready		 Holy shit...
macready		Portable video unit.
macready		Anything?
macready		What are you doing?
macready		It's getting late. Hurry it. I'm going to check the last few rooms.
macready		Careful. It's about to go.
garry		Turn that crap down, Nauls. You can hear it all over the camp!
nauls		Oui, Bwana. Can do.
sanchez		Hey, man...!
garry		You reach anybody yet?
sanchez		We're a thousand miles from anybody else, man. It's going to get a hell of a lot worse before it gets better.
garry		Well, stick to it.
man's voice		Hello boy.
childs		How my brothers and sister doing today? Doin' fine.
childs		What say to some nice Al Green for my babies, huh?
childs		What you...? You get the hell on out of here.
childs		...Comin' in here... goin' to urinate on my babies.
palmer		Clark! Will you kennel this goddamn dog?  Hey, Clark?!
norris		...Seems they were spending a lot of time at a place four miles northeast of their camp.
garry		What were they involved in?
macready		Little ice core drilling... some seismology... glaciology... same old shit we do.
bennings		How much more of this crap is there?
bennings		We can't learn anything from this.
bennings		What do you want from us?
macready		 Just listen.
garry		Could be anything... Men in isolation... some beef that snowballed... got out of hand...
norris		Maybe the whole camp got bent... Something they ate. What about food poisoning, Doc?
bennings		Clark, will you put this mutt with the others where he belong?!
blair		No drugs... alcohol. Nothing.
blair		It's tissue from one of these sinewy rods.
fuchs		What in the world kind of cell structure is this?
blair		That's the point.
blair		I'm not sure it is any kind of cell structure. Biologically speaking.
macready		Decanite...? Thermite charges...?
macready		What in...
macready		Clark.
macready		Dogtown's going nuts. Take care of it.
clark		What's got into...
clark		I don't know what the hell's in there, but it's weird and pissed off, whatever it is.
childs		Mac wants the what?!
bennings		 That's what he said. Now! Move!
clark		Mac, where are you?
garry		What's going on, damn it?
macready		I'm going to shoot.
clark		No! Wait!!
macready		Clark? Where are you? Clark!
childs		What's happening?
childs		Where are you?
macready		Torch it over there!
childs		The dogs?
macready		Screw the dogs!! Torch it!!
garry		 We're on fire!
macready		Don't let up, Childs!
garry		 Extinguishers.
nauls		It's okay now, man. It's dead. It's over.  You see.
clark		I know. Mr. Childs killed it. I saw.
nauls		Right, man. Right.
norris		Here. This is where they were spending most of their time.
bennings		Pretty nasty out, Mac. Thirty-five knots.
macready		Screw it, I'm going up anyway.
blair		Was that dog, the Norwegian dog?
garry		I just can't comprehend any of this. It was just a dog.
childs		 "tweren't no dog, Bwana.
blair		That tape MacReady showed us this morning...
garry		Couldn't make much of it myself.
blair		I've asked him to try and locate the site. Okay with you?
garry		Sure. You think there's a connection?
blair		Maybe.
norris		One of their sites would be directly over here.
palmer		Wow...
norris		Magnesium of some type... or some kind of strange alloy.  And those poor dumb bastards had to go and blow the hell out of it.
macready		So what do you make of it?
norris		You know damn well what we both make of it.
macready		No chance it could have been some new kind of test craft?
norris		Seismic activity has been pushing this are up from way down for a long time...  ...This ice it was buried in... It's over a hundred thousand years old.
childs		Okay now, Mac, run this by me again. Thousands of years ago this rocket ship crashes, right...? And the...
childs		MacReady!
macready		Look, I'm just guessing...
childs		Well, go on.
nauls		Where's that big ol' steel pot of mine?! Damn!
macready		...So it crashes, and this guy, whoever he is, gets thrown out, or walks out, and ends up freezing.
childs		I just can't believe this voodoo bullshit. You believe this voodoo bullshit, Blair?
palmer		 Happens all the time, man. They're falling out of the skies like flies. Government knows all about it... Chariots of the Gods, man... They practically own South America. I mean they taught the Incas everything they knew...
childs		Cool it, Palmer!!
palmer		Read von Daniken! Have you read von Daniken? Get your facts straight!
clark		Jesus, why would those guys ever want to leave Norway...?
nauls		Which one you muthers been tossing his dirty underwear in the kitchen trash?!
nauls		I want my kitchen clean. Germ free!
childs		So, MacReady, come on now. These Norwegian dudes come by... find him and dig him up...
macready		Yeah, they dig him up and cart him back. He gets thawed out, wakes up and scares the shit out of them. And they get into one hell of a brawl...
childs		Now how's this motherfucker wake up after thousands of years in the ice, huh?
macready		 I don't know how. Because he's different than we are. Because he's a space guy. What do you want from me, anyway. Go ask Blair.
childs		You buy any of this, Blair?
blair		It was here... got to that dog... It was here in this camp...
garry		So...? So what? It's over with.
bennings		 Well, isn't it?
blair		Whatever that Norwegian dog was... It... It was capable of changing its form...  ...This for instance isn't dog at all -- it's imitation... We got to it before it had time to finish or...
nauls		Finish what?
blair		...I think the whole process would have taken an hour... maybe more. And then I suppose both would have changed back to dog form.
palmer		Well, that Thing in the ice sure weren't no dog.
blair		 Of course not... But whatever it was revived, it... Well, The Thing was probably disoriented... and realized it couldn't survive for long in our atmosphere... But being the incredibly adaptable creature it was... it tried to become something that could... Before the Norwegians killed it... it somehow got to this dog.
clark		What do you mean "got" to the dog?
blair		It was a life form that was able to imitate and reproduce, whatever it ate or absorbed, cell for cell.
blair		The concept is staggering. I know... I... I don't fully understand it myself.
childs		 You're saying... that big muther in the ice, became the dog.
blair		 I think we're talking about an organism... that could imitate other life forms... perfectly... It could have gone on and on... It could have become one dog... It could have become as many dogs as it wanted to -- and without losing any of its original mass...
norris		You been into Childs' weed, Blair?
blair		Look, I know it's hard to believe...
garry		 So what's our problem?
blair		Well... there's still some cell activity... it's not entirely dead yet.
macready		And the horse you rode in on, Fuchs.  Light it up.
fuchs		Well, I'm not going to let this happen...
fuchs		I just can't believe it... We're going to go down as the biggest bunch of assholes in history...
macready		Fuck history. At least we're going to live to be an old bunch of assholes.
blair		 Clark, did you notice anything strange about that dog? Just anything at all? Any little thing?
clark		No. Just that he recovered real quick... That night when I found him in the rec room, he had already scraped off his bandage. Before I put him with the others, I redressed his wound and noticed it had healed up real good...
blair		That night?
clark		 Yeah.
blair		What was he doing in the rec room?
clark		Well, after I worked on him -- thought I'd let him rest. Left the room for a bit. When I came back, he was gone.
blair		Well, where was he? Where did he go?
clark		Don't know. Looked for him for a bit... couldn't find him.
blair		 You're saying he wasn't put into the kennel until the night?
clark		Well... yeah.
blair		How long were you with the dog? Alone, I mean?
clark		Ah... He was hurt bad. Bullet nicked an artery... I don't know... An hour... hour and a half...
clark		What the hell you looking at me like that for?
blair		Nothing. Nothing at all.
blair		...It could have gotten to somebody...
garry		Anybody sick?
blair		No, I... I don't mean infection... or disease...
garry		Any luck yet?
sanchez		Couple seconds of an Argentine disco station.
garry		Well, stick with it. I want you at it round the clock. We got to get help in here...
blair		 No... No, you can't let anyone in here... That dog was all over this camp...
bennings		 Travel-wise, tomorrow may be okay. But after that some pretty nasty northeasterly shit's coming in.
fuchs		...Goddamn fools...
blair		 Listen to me, Garry. Please...
garry		 If the weather clears enough before we reach anybody -- I'm sending you and Doc up to MacMurdo...
blair		No! You can't let people leave...
macready		I ain't going anywhere in anything over forty knots, Garry...
garry		 The hell you won't, MacReady!
blair		Don't you understand?! That Thing didn't want to become a dog...
garry		 Damn you, Blair! You've already got everybody half-hysterical around here.
blair		You can't let anybody leave!
garry		I've got six dead Norwegians on my hands, a burned up flying saucer, and we've just destroyed the scientific find of the century. Now fuck off!
macready		All set.
macready		To us.
macready		Now go easy on me, Esperanza. I'm just a beginner.
chess voice		Rook takes bishop at Queen four -- Rook take pawn at Queen two -- Rook takes Queen at Queen one -- Checkmate.
macready		Aw shit.
macready		Sorry, hon.
macready		Never any damn ice around here...
macready		Now in Mexico... Tahiti... They got ice... They got ice coming out of their ears.
macready		What's...
palmer		Blair. He's gone berserk.
bennings		He's in the radio room. Got a gun. Beat on Sanchez something fierce.
blair		Anybody interferes, I'll kill! Nobody's getting in or out of this camp...
macready		He smashed one of the choppers up good. Childs, go check the other one and the tractor.
blair		...You think I'm crazy? Fine! Most of you don't know what's going on -- but I'm damn well sure some of you do! 
norris		The back window. A couple of us could maybe surprise him.
macready		Too damn dangerous.
blair		...You think this Thing wants to become an animal? Dogs can't make it 1000 miles to the sea. No skua gulls to imitate this time of year... No penguins this far inland... Don't you understand?! It wanted to become us!
childs		He got both choppers and the tractor... I don't know how bad yet.
macready		No, wait a minute.  The fuse box.
blair		...Can't you see...? If one cell of this Thing got out it could imitate every living thing on Earth. Nothing could stop it! Nothing!
macready		 Look Blair, maybe you're right about this. But we've got to be rational. We've got to talk this over. I'm unarmed and I'm coming in.
blair		No, you're not! I don't trust any of you!
macready		If you're right we've all got to stick together.
blair		Why am I here?
macready		And mainly ours.
macready		Leave a bit of an opening so he can see out.
macready		How you doin', old boy?
blair		 I don't know who to trust.
macready		 Know what you mean, Blair. Trust is a tough thing to come by these days. Just trust in the Lord.
blair		 Watch Clark.
macready		What?
blair		Watch him close. Ask him why he didn't kennel the dog.
sanchez		I'll see what I can do. But they didn't teach me much about fixing these things.
norris		They didn't teach you much about working them either.
clark		The dogs...
garry		Doesn't look broken.
clark		No. Door was wide open. I know I latched it.
clark		All three of them took off.
clark		I haven't seen them since their last feeding. Could be as much as twenty- four hours.
macready		They couldn't have gotten that far in this weather.
garry		You're not thinking of going after them, are you?
macready		I am going after them.
norris		What in the hell for? Even if Blair's right -- they'll just die out there. No food. They're over a thousand miles from anything.
palmer		Chopper aren't going to be ready for days.
macready		Get these things out of supply and meet me over by the snowmobiles.
garry		You're not going to catch them in one of those with the start they got.
macready		Palmer, how long would it take you to strap those big four-cylinder carburetors on?
palmer		 Oh, I got you. Not too long.
macready		Then get a move on. Childs, come with me.
garry		 Besides, what are you going to do when you catch up to them?
bennings		Holy shit.  Whatever he's going to do, he ain't fucking around.
childs		I can get maybe another five or six feet out of it.
macready		That's good enough.
bennings		All right... Box of dynamite... box of thermite... three shotguns... box of flares... two flare guns... thirty cans gasoline... and a case of alcohol.
macready		Let's load 'em.
childs		What is it?
macready		Maybe dinner.
bennings		Dogs don't eat each other.
macready		 I know.
childs		Where's the other half?
macready		Probably the next meal.
macready		Where these tracks headed?
bennings		Nowhere... Just straight to the ocean.
macready		Let's move.
childs		They could be hours ahead of us, Mac.
bennings		Gonna get dark soon, too. Supposed to be fifty below tonight.
macready		Turn back if you want.
childs		Where's the other one?
macready		 Where's your buddy, boy? Huh?
macready		Let that thing fly, Childs. Don't let up until he's ash.
macready		Childs!!
macready		 Stay back!!
childs		What we going to do?!
macready		How the fuck do I know?!
macready		Torch them!!
childs		But...
macready		He's gone already! Do it!
clark		...I'm telling you I don't remember leaving the kennel unlatched...
childs		Bullshit! You left it open so they could get out!
clark		...Would I even have told you they were gone if I had anything to hide?
garry		But why didn't you kennel that dog right away?
clark		I told you I couldn't find...  ...get that out of my face.
childs		Don't you be telling me...
nauls		 Lighten your load, sucker. You ain't the judge and executioner around here!
childs		Who you trying to protect, mutherfucker? I'm telling you this S.O.B. could be one of them.
garry		Hold on, damn it. We're getting nowhere... If this bit of Blair's about absorbing and imitating is true... then that dog could have gotten to anybody.
norris		It's just too damn wild -- I can't believe it.
macready		Well, you can believe it now.
macready		Nauls found this yesterday. It's ripped just like the clothing on the Norwegian we brought back. The same thing was happening to Bennings' clothes when it got to him. Seems these Things don't imitate clothes. Just flesh and bone.
macready		Size large.  What do you wear, Clark?
clark		So what?
norris		I wear a size large, too.
macready		So do I. So do most of us.
macready		Doubt if it got to more than one or two of us. But it got to someone.  Somebody in this room ain't what he appears to be.
sanchez		 Well, what we going to do?
norris		Can there be... some kind of test? To find out who's what?
fuchs		Right. Why not?
garry		What's that?
childs		Whose uncontaminated blood we going to use?
garry		How long will it take you to prepare this?
garry		Well, get to it.
palmer		How's that Thing get to the dogs? I though we stopped it in time.
macready		Copper thinks they swallowed pieces of it during the fight.
palmer		And that was enough?
nauls		Oh, my God.
macready		Was it broken into?
fuchs		No. Somebody opened it. Closed it. And then locked it.
macready		Well, who's got access to it?
garry		And I've got the only key.
macready		Would that test have worked?
norris		Somebody else sure as hell thought so.
macready		Who else could have used that key?
garry		Ah... no one... I give it to Copper when he needs it...
macready		Could anyone have gotten it from you?
norris		When was the last time you used it?
garry		I suppose... well, it's possible someone might have lifted it from me. But...
childs		That key ring of yours is always hooked to your belt. Now how could somebody get to it without you knowing?
garry		 Look, I haven't been near that... that refrigerator.
garry		Copper's the only one who has any business with it.
fuchs		And the Doc thought of the test.
childs		 So what?! Is that supposed to leave him in the clear?! Bullshit!
garry		Hey, Sanchez!
garry		Put that down!
sanchez		 No.
garry		I'll put this right through your head.
sanchez		You guys going to let him give orders? I mean he could be one of those Things.
macready		 Put it away, Sanchez. Just put it away.
garry		I don't know about Copper. But I didn't go near that plasma...  But I guess you'll all rest easier if someone else is in charge.
garry		Can't see anyone objecting to you, Norris.
norris		Sorry, gentlemen...  ...Don't think I'd be up to it. Haven't been feeling well lately.
childs		I'll take it...
macready		Maybe it should be someone a bit more even-tempered, Childs.
macready		 ...Any objections?
macready		...From what we know this Thing likes to go one on one. So we stick together as much as possible. In two's and three's.
childs		What do we do about those three?
macready		We got morphine, don't we.
macready		Well, we keep them loaded. Stash them here in the rec room and watch 'em twenty-four hours.
palmer		 Morphine? You know I was pretty close to that dog, too.
norris		We should sleep in shifts.
macready		Right. Half of us awake at all times.
sanchez		How we going to try and find out who's... you know, who's who?
macready		 Can you think of any other tests?
fuchs		I'll try.  I could sure use Copper's help though.
childs		You can eighty-six that thought right now, man.
macready		Also... When this Thing turns... it turns slowly at first. I think we can handle it in that state. But if it ever got to full power... from what I saw of that Norwegian camp... well, I just don't know... It would probably take it an hour or more to get like that. So no matter what anybody's doing, we all return to this room every twenty minutes. Anybody gone longer than that... anybody trying to leave... we kill 'em.
palmer		 Where's that magneto? Can't find a darn thing around here any more.
childs		No, Doc. He's doing a real fine job.
macready		Look for shoes, too. And burned cloth.
nauls		That thing's too smart to be hiding any more of its clothes, MacReady.
macready		Just keep looking.
macready		How's it going?
fuchs		Nothing yet. But, MacReady, I've been thinking... If our dogs changed by swallowing parts of that other one... We better see to it that everyone prepares their own food and we eat out of cans.
macready		Gotchya.
palmer		Childs, where's that magneto from Chopper One?
childs		Ain't it there?
palmer		No it ain't there. Would I be asking if it were there?
macready		Move it, Palmer.
macready		 Start taking apart those snowmobiles next, huh?
nauls		I got your goodies, superdude.
nauls		What you doin'?
blair		Nobody's getting in here. You can tell them all that!
nauls		Well, who the hell you think wants to get in there with you?
nauls		Now why'd you go and...
blair		And I don't want any more food with sedatives in it. I know what you're up to. Don't think I don't. And if anyone tries to get in here -- I've got rope. I'll hang myself before it gets to me.
nauls		You promise?
nauls		Crazy white scientist motherfucker...
clark		Gotta go to the can, Childs.
childs		Be quick.
childs		Oh, no.
childs		No. The generator. You got the auxiliary box just off the kitchen. Get to it.  You fellas okay over there?
childs		Cut that out, Copper.  Nauls? What's taking you?!
childs		That's impossible, man! Okay, Clark, out of the john where I can see you!
childs		 Clark, you come on out here!!
childs		Where's... Where's Garry?
childs		Where are you, Garry? Don't you move an inch, Copper.  Nauls, bring me a goddamn flashlight!
nauls		Somebody's taken it. I can't find it!
macready		 What's happened?!
macready		Yeah!
macready		 Well, let's get down there.
macready		What?
macready		 Well, hang on!
macready		Where's Sanchez?
palmer		The fuel pump... it's gone...  You've got to get up to supply, Mca. If we don't get this thing started soon, it'll freeze on us and we'll never get it going.
macready		Who... Who is that?
macready		Sanchez...?  Hey, who...
palmer		Somebody definitely messed with it.
macready		We going to make it?
palmer		Hope so. Another ten, fifteen minutes. What I don't get is...
sanchez		Where were the flashlights?
macready		Screw the flashlights. Where the hell were you?
palmer		Tons of stuff's been missing around here. Magnetos, cables, wire...
nauls		Kitchen things, too...
macready		Anybody see Fuchs... or hear him...? Huh?
childs		Where'd you go?
childs		I said where? Where'd you go?!
garry		Was dark... find a light...
childs		You lying bastard...
garry		 I rather don't like your tone...
childs		You sit back down...
norris		Enough...
macready		That storm's going to start ripping any minute -- so we don't have much time.
macready		We've got to find Fuchs. When we find him -- we kill him.
sanchez		Why?
macready		If he's one of those Things, we've got to get to him before he changes... Nauls, you and Childs and I'll check the outside shacks...
macready		Sanchez, you and Palmer search the inside...
palmer		I ain't going with Sanchez.
palmer		I ain't going with him. I'll go with Childs...
sanchez		Well, screw you, man!
palmer		I ain't going with you!
childs		Well, who says I want you going with me?!
macready		Cut the bullshit... Okay, Sanchez, you come with us. Norris... you stay here...  And everybody watch whoever you're with. Real close.
macready		Let's move.
palmer		What'd we ever do to these Things anyway...
palmer		What?
childs		Don't walk behind me.
palmer		Right.
macready		Hey, Blair!!
macready		Has Fuchs been out here?
blair		I've changed my mind... I'd... I'd like to come back inside... I don't want to stay out here any more... Funny things... I hear funny things out here.
macready		Have you come across Fuchs?
blair		Fuchs...? No, it's not Fuchs... You must let me back in... I won't harm anyone... I promise...
macready		We'll see...
blair		I promise! I'm much better now! I'll be good!! I'm all better!! Don't leave me here!!
norris		Let's just not get worried about anything just now.
norris		 After all this mess.
palmer		Auxiliary light cables...? Been cut.
childs		Cut, bullshit. Been pulled apart.
nauls		 Where's the roof?!
nauls		This storm do that?
macready		 Couldn't be possible. Must have weighted a ton and a half...
nauls		Goddamn white women.
childs		My babies.
palmer		Somebody broke in.
childs		Now who'd go and do...
palmer		Childs!!
childs		Let go of me...
palmer		Don't get near 'em. The plants! They're alive. Those things can imitate anything...
childs		What's it going to do, being a plant?
palmer		We got to burn 'em.
childs		Now hold on, you dumb...
childs		You stupid, sonofa...
sanchez		Whoever put this through him...
sanchez		...is one bad-ass and strong muther.
childs		No one's that strong, boy!
palmer		Why didn't it imitate Fuchs? Isn't that its number -- to get more recruits.
childs		Wasn't enough time. Generator was out, what...? Thirty minutes. Takes the bastards an hour, maybe two to absorb somebody.
sanchez		Why Fuchs?
childs		He was working on a test. Fuchs must have been onto something. These bastards got scared and got rid of him.  ...Hey... Where's...
palmer		MacReady!!
childs		Nauls!! MacReady!!
childs		How long they been out now?
norris		Forty... Forty-five minutes.
childs		We better start closing off the outside hatchways.
palmer		Where's MacReady?
nauls		Cut him loose of the line up by his shack.
childs		Cut him loose?
nauls		When we were up poking around his place... I found this...
nauls		...It was stashed in his old coal furnace... wind must have dislodged it... I don't think he saw me find it.
nauls		...Made sure I got ahead of him on the towline on the way back... cut him loose.
sanchez		 MacReady...?
nauls		He's one of them.
sanchez		 When do you think it got to him?
palmer		Could have been anytime. Anywhere.
childs		 If it did get to him.
nauls		Look, man...
palmer		When the lights went out...
norris		Would have been a perfect time...
palmer		Right. Garry was missing...  ...And Sanchez...
sanchez		 Fuck you, Palmer.
norris		This is just what it wants... to pit us against each other.
nauls		 Bullshit! He's got to know damn well I cut it!
palmer		Let's open it.
childs		Hell no.
sanchez		 You think he's changed into one of those Things?
norris		He hasn't had enough time.
childs		...Nothing human could have made it back here in this weather without a guideline...
palmer		Let's open it. Now...
childs		 Why you so damn anxious to let him in here...
palmer		 He's so close. Maybe our best chance to blow him away.
childs		No. Just let him freeze out there.
sanchez		 What if we're wrong about him?
childs		Then we're wrong.
palmer		The supply window!
sanchez		 What we going to...
norris		All right... all right... we've got no choice now...
macready		What's going on out there?
childs		Damn it, he's got the keys.
macready		What are you doing?
macready		What clothes?
macready		Someone's trying to mark me, you bastard... trying to frame me.
childs		Move in slow now.
macready		Anyone messes with me -- the whole camp goes.
macready		Put those torches on the floor and back off.
macready		...back way off.
macready		...Where's the rest...
macready		So help me I mean it!!
nauls		It's cool, man. We ain't near you, man... Stay cool...
palmer		Yeah, man, really. Just relax.
macready		Anybody touches me... we go.
nauls		I don't think he's breathing.
macready		Go untie the Doc. Get him in here. Bring the others, too...  From now on no one gets out of my sight.
macready		So you sweethearts had yourselves a little trial. I just may have to kill you on general principle, Nauls.
macready		...Ever occur to the jury that anybody could have gotten to some of my clothes and stuck them up...
childs		We ain't buying that.
childs		 You're going to have to sleep sometime.
macready		I'm a real light sleeper, Childs...
macready		And if anyone tries to wake me...
sanchez		God... what...?
macready		Get out of the way!!
clark		What you got in mind, MacReady?
macready		A little test.
palmer		What kind of test?
macready		I'm sure a lot of you already know.
macready		Palmer, you and Copper tie everyone down. Real tight.
childs		What for?
macready		For your health.
garry		 Let's rush him. He's not going to blow us all up.
macready		Damn if I won't.
childs		 You ain't tying me up.
macready		Then I'll have to kill you.
childs		Then kill me.
macready		I mean it.
childs		I guess you do.
macready		Tie up Clark, too.
palmer		 He's dead.
macready		Norris looked pretty dead, himself. Bullets don't kill these Things.
childs		 We should have jumped his ass.
macready		Now Copper, you tie Palmer up.
macready		We're going to draw a little bit of everybody's blood.
nauls		What are you going to do? Drink it?
macready		Watching Norris in there... gave me the idea that maybe every part of you bastards is a whole. Every piece of you is self-sufficient, an animal unto itself. When a man bleeds it's just tissue. But blood from one of you Things won't obey. It's a newly formed individual with a built-in desire to protect its own life. When attacked, your blood will try and survive -- and crawl away from a hot needle say.
macready		Now you.
macready		Slide it back here.
macready		Now step way back.
macready		I guess you're okay.
macready		I didn't think you'd use that fibrillator on Norris if you were one of them.
macready		Watch them.
macready		Now I'll show you what I already know.
childs		Load of bullshit.
macready		We'll see. Let's try Clark.
childs		So Clark was human, huh?
childs		So that make you a murderer.
macready		Palmer now.
garry		Pure nonsense. This won't prove a damn thing.
macready		Thought you'd feel that way, Garry. You were the only one who could have gotten to that blood plasma...  ...we'll do you last...
macready		Copper!!
childs		Let's do it, Bwana.
childs		Muthafu...
childs		Get me... get me the hell away from... cut me loose, damn it!
garry		I know you gentlemen have been through a lot. But when you find the time... I'd rather not spend the rest of the winter tied to this couch.
nauls		Shut the damn hell up.
macready		 Blair...
nauls		What is it?
macready		Everything that's been missing.
childs		Spaceship of some kind.
macready		Smart S.O.B. He put it together piece by piece.
nauls		Where was he trying to go?
macready		Anyplace but here.
macready		But he ain't going to make it.
nauls		What about Childs?
macready		Forget about Childs. He's over.
garry		Make 'em short. They'll go off quicker if we need to use them.
sanchez		What if it doesn't come?
macready		It'll come. It needs us. We're the only thing left to imitate...  Give me a hand.
macready		 You and Nauls got to block off the west side bunks, the mess hall and the kitchen.
nauls		 You crazy? He might be inside already?
macready		Chance we got to take. We got to force him to come down the east side to the door we got rigged.
sanchez		He might just wait us out.
macready		I'm going to blow the generator when you get back. He'll have to come for us -- or freeze.
macready		We've got portable heaters -- we'll last longer.
macready		...Hold it.
macready		Sodium cyanide. We place them between our cheeks and gums... This Thing can't imitate anything that's dead.
macready		If it gets a hold of you -- bite down... They're supposed to be fast and painless... Now move.
macready		Looks good.
garry		One thousand volts. Should be enough.
sanchez		You hear that?
nauls		Hear what?
nauls		It's got into the pub! It's turned on the stereo!
sanchez		What?!
nauls		It's in between us and them!! How we going to get back?!
sanchez		I can't hear you.
macready		What are they doing out there?!
garry		What's he saying?
nauls		MacReady! We been cut off!!
macready		Got to get to the generator.
nauls		Get back!!
macready		The generator!
nauls		Screw the generator!!
nauls		Got Sanchez... World War Three wouldn't mess with this fucker... Can go through walls... And it's like all over the place...
macready		Calm down and get in your position.
nauls		Position, my ass...
garry		I'm going to bump this up, much as I can.
nauls		Boulder Dam might do it.
garry		How long's it been?
macready		Little over two hours.
nauls		Maybe it ain't coming.
macready		Then we go after him.
nauls		Bet the last place you ever go.
macready		Wait...
macready		Okay, creep! Just you and me now! Be on your toes! We're going to do a little remodeling!
macready		You like whiskey? Come on, join me for a drink. Be good for you. Grow fangs on your chest.
macready		Damn it, ran out of gas.
macready		Sweetheart, it's going to get mighty cold in here soon... You better make your move... I mean, hell, I'm only one person...
macready		I know you're bugged because we ruined your trip, right? Spiffy little toy you had there.
macready		But your real hang up is your looks...
macready		 Atta boy. I know you're around.
macready		Come on, sucker.
childs		Did you kill it?
macready		I think so.
childs		What do you mean "you think so?"
macready		Yeah. I got it.  Pretty mean frostbite.
childs		It'll turn black again soon enough. Then I guess I'll be losing the whole thing...  ...Think my toes are already gone.
childs		So you're the only one who made it.
macready		Not the only one.
childs		The fire's got the temperature way up all over camp... won't last long though.
macready		Neither will we.
childs		Maybe we should try and fix the radio... try and get some help.
macready		Maybe we shouldn't.
childs		Then we'll never make it.
macready		Maybe we shouldn't make it.
childs		 If you're worried about anything, let's take that blood test of yours.
macready		If we've got any surprises for each other -- we shouldn't be in any condition to do anything about it.  You play chess?
childs		I guess I'll be learning.
****Dialogues from script :Things_My_Father_Never_Taught_Me.txt****

melvin		Here's what I'm going to do, son. I'll give it to you straight. I'm not going to fill your head with stories about fictitious characters like Santa Claus or the Easter Bunny or God. There's only one thing you need to worry about in this life and that's women. And I'm going to teach you everything I know about the art of meeting, courting and seducing 'em. Don't worry about anything else, there's nothing more important. Reading, writing, toilet training you can learn later in life.
melvin		Clothes maketh or unmaketh the man. What were you thinking when you put that on this morning? That you were going to spend the day in the sandpit?
melvin		 The finer the threads, the more inclined the ladies will be to tear them off. I know, don't try to make sense of their logic. They have none.
melvin		Of course, it's not all about clothes. It's the way you carry yourself too. You've gotta make a conscious effort to be relaxed but in control in all situations. And a little playful. Go for an expression where you're suppressing mild amusement. But don't overdo it. You want to look dignified at all times.
melvin		Damnit, son! Are you not listening to a word I say?
melvin		Now meeting the right person is really all about spending enough time in the right places. So we're going to a new preschool today. One in a higher socioeconomic suburb.
melvin		Well?
melvin		You like the girl over there?
melvin		Uh ... yeah. I think there's enough geek genes in our family. It's time to diversify.
melvin		And avoid that bitchy girl. She may be pretty but believe me, it's not worth the trouble. You definitely don't want to get involved with someone like your mother.
melvin		Stay away from the French girl too. French women have no morals.
melvin		It might be great for a bit of slap and tickle after midnight when the only meat your buddies are getting is at a kebab shop. But there's no word in French for "fidelity" and what we're looking for is a serious relationship. I mean, what you're looking for.  I'm fine.
melvin		She's popular, good-looking. She seems friendly enough. I think Barbie there might be worth a try.
melvin		Go and talk to her.
melvin		C'mon! It's better to get shot down than wonder "What if?"
melvin		Just show an interest in the things that interest her and you'll have plenty to talk about.
melvin		Would you like to go to the toyshop later on? You can pick out a nice fairy costume. What are you doing to me, boy?!
melvin		We need to toughen up your image now. Most girls are attracted to bad boys. See if you can start some sort of altercation with her. Understand?
melvin		Well that was over the top but at least you got her attention. And it's better to be known as a jerk rather than a fruitcake. The good news is you now have the opportunity to apologise. If you can feign sincerity and a desperation for forgiveness, you should be able to endear yourself to her.  Leave the price tag on. We want her to know how much we paid.
melvin		I'm trying to do the right thing by you and you mess everything up! You're as incompetent as ... the government film funding bodies!
mary		Molly loves her flowers.      Thank you.
melvin		Oh.   No problem. They were my idea.
mary		Well it was a very nice gesture.
mary		We're going to lunch at the cafe on the corner. Would you and Mike like to join us?
melvin		Absolutely.      We'll see you there.
melvin		Great work my friend! Looks like we're in for a double date.
melvin		And the perfect chance for you to learn from a master at work.
mary		They seem to like each other.
melvin		They certainly do.
mary		Molly has a birthday party coming up. Would you like to come?
melvin		Absolutely.
mary		I'm thinking about a sleepover? Or is it too soon?
melvin		A "sleepover" would be great. No such thing as "too soon" when you're with the right person.
mary		What are you doing?!
melvin		Getting to know you. Before the "sleepover".
mary		I meant Mike coming over to spend the night. Not his Dad.
melvin		Oh.
melvin		It's better to get shot down than wonder "What if?"?
melvin		I now have the opportunity to apologise and endear myself to her?
melvin		Yeah! Yeah, you're right.   I've taught you well!
****Dialogues from script :Thirteen_Days.txt****

kenny		Hi, hon.
helen		Don't forget, Mrs. Higgins wants to talk to you this afternoon about Kevin.  You need to do something about this.
kenny		Kids are supposed to get detention.
kenny		Secretary of Defense...
kevin		Dean Rusk!
kenny		Wrong, and you get to wax my car.
helen		Got time for pancakes?
kenny		Nope.  Attorney General?
kids		 Too easy!  Bobby, Bobby Kennedy!
kenny		All right, wise guys, Assistant Secretary of State for Latin America...
kenny		Morning, Floyd.
kenny		Top o' the morning, Mr. President.
the president		Morning, Kenny.  You see this goddamn Capehart stuff?
kenny		Bayh's going to lose, but it's good
the president		I was eating that.
kenny		No you weren't.
the president		 I was, you bastard.
kenny		Today, for your information, is Pulaski Day.  We're going to Buffalo...
kenny		Who else you got?
kenny		Got the touch?
kenny		Everyone likes a good kid...
crowd		MR. PRESIDENT!  PRESIDENT KENNEDY!
reston		How's my favorite President?
kenny		Busy.  But you've got his heart.
reston		I want an hour with him.
kenny		I said his heart, not his attention.
reston		Three weeks before midterm elections? You need me.
kenny		Well.  There is a new civil rights initiative he wants to talk about.
reston		I'm doing a piece on Skybolt.  I hear Macmillan's meeting with him in Nassau.
kenny		We're giving the Brits Polaris instead. But a story'll just aggravate things.
reston		Pretending there isn't a problem won't fix it.  He can clear the air on Anglo American relations.
kenny		Forget it, Scotty.
reston		Let him talk to me, he makes Macmillan look good, I print it, the British public likes it, Macmillan owes you.
kenny		All right, you're in.  Half hour.
kenny		Hey, Mac.  You're up bright and early.
bundy		No, Ken.  I need to see him now...
kenny		Morning, Floyd.
kenny		What's it about?
bundy		Cuba.
kenny		Just Cuba?  Okay, I got work to do, see you guys downstairs.
kenny		 There is a word you need to learn.  It is the only word in politics.  Loyalty. LOYALTY you motherfucking piece of shit!
the president		I think you should come in here.
kenny		Not as far as the election goes.
the president		You used to look down a bomb sight for a living, Ken.  What do you see?
kenny		We hit a Nazi buzz bomb field in '45.  It looks like a rocket base...
bundy		On Sunday morning, one of our U-2s took these pictures.  The Soviets are putting medium range ballistic missiles into Cuba.
lundahl		They appear to be the SS-4: range of a thousand miles, three-megaton nuclear warhead.
kenny		Jesus Christ in Heaven...
various operators		Please hold for the White House...Mr. O'Donnell for Secretary McNamara... White House Operator... please hold...
kenny		The principals are assembling in an hour.  See you then.
the president		Where's Bobby?
kenny		Should be here any minute.
the president		Good.
the president		In here!
bobby		Jesus Christ, guys.  What the hell's Khruschev thinking?
the president		Did you have any indication of this from Georgi?  Any possible warning or sense of motivation?
bobby		 By the way, you realize we just lost the midterms.
kenny		Who gives a shit about the midterms now? The Soviets are putting nuclear weapons ninety miles away from us.
bobby		You mean there's something more important than votes?  Didn't think I'd live to see the day, Ken.
kenny		Jesus.  I feel like we've caught the Jap carriers steaming for Pearl Harbor.
group		Good morning, Mr. President.
the president		Good morning, gentlemen.
rusk		Mr. President.
the president		Bob.  Bet you had a late night.
mcnamara		Sleep is for the weak, Mr. President.
kenny		Lyndon.  Adlai.
the president		Max.
general taylor		McCone's been notified and is coming back from the West coast.  Carter's here, though.
kenny		Ted.
sorensen		Kenny.
the president		Okay.  Let's have it.
general carter		Arthur Lundahl heads our photographic interpretation division at CIA.  I'll let him and his boys take you through what we've got.  Arthur?
lundahl		Gentlemen, as most of you now know a U-2 over Cuba on Sunday morning took a series of disturbing photographs.
lundahl		IRONBARK reports the SS-4 can deliver a 3-megaton nuclear weapon 1000 miles.  So far we have identified 32 missiles served by around 3400 men, undoubtedly all Soviet personnel.  Our cities and military installations in the Southeast, as far north as Washington, are in range of these weapons, and in the event of a launch, would only have five minutes of warning.
general carter		Five minutes, gentlemen.  Five minutes.
general taylor		In those five minutes they could kill 80 million Americans and destroy a significant number of our bomber bases, degrading our retaliatory options.  The Joint Chiefs' consensus is that this is a massively destabilizing move, upsetting the nuclear balance.
the president		Arthur.  Are. You. Sure?
lundahl		Yes, Mr. President.  These are nuclear missiles.
bobby		How long until they're operational?
lundahl		General Taylor can answer that question better than I can.
general taylor		I have to stress that there may be more missiles that we don't know about.  We need more U-2 coverage.
the president		Is there any indication - anything at all - that suggests they intend to use these missiles in some sort of first strike?
general carter		Not at present, sir.  But I think the prudent answer is we don't know.
the president		Do we have any sort of intelligence from CIA on what Khruschev is thinking?
general carter		No, Mr. President.  We don't.  We just don't know what's happening inside the Kremlin at that level.
bobby		They lied to us.  Two weeks ago Dobrynin told me to my face Khurschev had no intention of putting missiles into Cuba. They said themselves, this is our backyard.
the president		Gentlemen, I want first reactions. Assuming for a moment Khruschev has not gone off the deep end and intends to start World War Three, what are we looking at?
rusk		Mr. President, I believe my team is in agreement.  If we permit the introduction of nuclear missiles to a Soviet satellite nation in our hemisphere, the diplomatic consequences will be too terrible to contemplate. The Russians are trying to show the world they can do whatever they want, wherever they want, and we're powerless to stop them.  If they succeed...
bobby		It will be Munich all over again.
rusk		Appeasement only makes the aggressor more aggressive.  Confidence in our security commitments around the world will falter, allies will become unsure in the face of Soviet pressure, and the Soviets will be emboldened to push us even harder.  We must remove the missiles one way or another.  It seems to me the options are either to build up the crisis 'til they give in, or we hit them.  An air strike.
the president		Bob?
mcnamara		We've worked up several military scenarios.  Before I ask General Taylor to lead us through the various options, I'd like for us to adopt a rule. If we are going to strike, we must agree now that we will do it before the missiles become operational.  Because once they are, I don't think we can guarantee getting them all before at least some are launched.
bundy		Sir.  We need to consider... if we decide to act, there's a good chance we'll end up in a general war.
the president		It's clear we cannot permit Soviet nuclear missiles in Cuba.  We must get those missiles out.
the president		I don't think it's going to matter what Khruschev's intentions are.  I tell you, right now... I don't see any way around hitting them.
kenny		If we hit 'em, kill a lot of Russians, they'll move against Berlin.  They attack Berlin, that's NATO... and we're at war.
bobby		Damned if we do, but if we don't, we're in a war for sure somewhere else in six months.
the president		No choice.  This is going to cost lives any way we go.  Do nothing, and it could be 80 million  of ours.  We have to get rid of those missiles.
kenny		There've got to be alternatives to just going out and bombing them.
bobby		He's right, Jack.  Taylor is saying we may have some time.  We've got to use it.
the president		So if there are alternatives that make sense - and I'm not saying there are - we need 'em.  Need 'em fast.
bobby		What about the allies?  Congress?  I think we may need to start letting key people know.  And they're all scattered across the country for the campaign. We're going to need to get the U.N. staff in and warmed up.  Jesus... I don't even know if we've got secure communications with half our embassies since that the Soviets got that cryptographer of ours.
the president		We can't worry about everything right now.  We've got to figure out what we're going to do before we worry about how we do it.
kenny		The other thing is...
bobby		... I know.  CIA and the military fucked us on the Bay of Pigs.
kenny		They're going to be pressing for a military solution soon.  We can't afford to let them ram their agenda down our throats.  We need to come with options other than air strikes so we have some sort of choice here.
bobby		We got a bunch of smart guys.  We lock 'em up together in there, kick 'em in the ass til they come up with options.
kenny		 It's too politicized with you in there, anyway.  They need to be able to stick their necks out.
bobby		It'll be the principals, a couple of the key guys from each department: the Executive Committee of the National Security Council.  We'll call it EXCOM.
kenny		EXCOM.  Has a ring to it.  Like F-Troop.
the president		Okay.  Kenny and I only show for the meetings you call us into.  Impress us. And do it fast.  You're in charge of keeping this quiet. If word gets out before we know what we're going to do, there'll be panic. And it'll ruin any chance of surprise if we decide to hit them.
kenny		Then we need to do a few things right away.  No Pierre.  He knows, the press knows. You're going to have to keep up your schedule - your movements are followed too closely.  And we need to get these guys out of the White House.  George Ball's got a conference room at State.  Reconvene over there this afternoon, come back here tonight.
bobby		I think we should bring in Dean Acheson. He was fighting Soviets while we were still working the wards in Boston.
the president		Find him, Kenny.  We're going to need all the help we can get.
reston		Hey, Kenny!  Who died?
kenny		Way it's going, the Democratic Party. DNC strategy session.  If you can call it that.
assistant		Sir?
reston		It's Tuesday.  You said to call.  When do I get my 45 minutes?
kenny		Tell you what.  We're in Connecticut tomorrow for Ribicoff.  I'll get you up front with him during the flight.
reston		Deal.
assistant		Sir.
kenny		What is it?
assistant		The number you asked for.
kenny		I ask for a lot of 'em.  Whose is it?
assistant		Dean Acheson's, sir.
kenny		Gotta go, Scotty.  See you tomorrow.
bobby		Screw secrecy.  You try having that fat ass sit on your lap all the way from Foggy Bottom.
mcnamara		You were excited.  I say no more.
bobby		Everybody agrees the diplomatic route is out.  It's too slow, and they'll have the missiles finished.
general sweeney		We have 850 planes assembling at Homestead, Eglin, Opa Locka, MacDill, Patrick, Pensacola and Key West.
adlai		I still think there are diplomatic approaches we haven't considered yet.
general taylor		We have high confidence in the expanded air strike option.  The problem, Mr. President, is that it's a short-term solution.  Khruschev can send more missiles next month.  The Chiefs and I believe we should follow up the air strikes with the full version of
the president		An invasion...
general taylor		Yes, sir.  We can be sure we get all the missiles, and we remove Castro so this can never happen again.
the president		Is this the Chiefs' recommendation?
general taylor		Yes, sir.  Our best option is to commence the strikes before the missiles are operational.  The invasion happens eight days later.
the president		Dean.  What do you think?
acheson		Mr. President, you have rightly dismissed the diplomatic option.  The Soviet will only tie you down in negotiation, and leave us short of our goal, the removal of the missiles. Negotiating will do nothing more than give them time to make the missiles operational, complicating the necessary military task we have at hand.
the president		Then it appears we have three options. Number one.  A surgical air strike against the missiles themselves.  Two, a larger air strike against their air defenses along with the missiles.
general taylor		Yes, sir, we're preparing to implement all three options, though I must stress again, sir, there are risks to the strikes without the follow-on invasion.
bundy		You want to be clear, Mr. President, that we have definitely decided against a political track.
the president		Dean, how does this play out?
acheson		Your first step, sir, will be to demand that the Soviet withdraw the missiles within 12 to 24 hours.  They will refuse.  When they do, you will order the strikes, followed by the invasion. They will resist, but will be overrun. They will retaliate against a target somewhere else in the world, most likely Berlin.  We will honor our treaty commitments and resist them there, defeating them per our plans.
the president		Those plans call for the use of nuclear weapons.  And what is the next step?
acheson		Hopefully cooler heads will prevail before we reach the next step.
general taylor		If McNamara'd get off the fence...
bundy		We have time.
general carter		Goddamn it, it's obvious.  It's the only option.  That asshole, Stevenson.  We can't let this drag out or we lose our shot.
bundy		Bombing them...
acheson		Remember that the Kennedys' father was one of the architects of Munich.  The General is right.  There is only one responsible choice here.
kenny		Jesus Christ Almighty...
the president		Acheson's scenario is unacceptable.  And he has more experience than anyone.
kenny		There is no expert on this subject, no wise old man.
the president		The thing is, Acheson's right.  Talk alone won't accomplish anything.
kenny		Then let's bomb the shit out of them. Everyone wants to, even you, even me.  It sure would feel good.
bobby		Jack, I'm as conniving as they come, but a sneak attack is just wrong.
kenny		He's right.  And things are happening too fast.  It smells like the Bay of Pigs all over again.
bobby		As if dealing with the Russians wasn't hard enough, we gotta worry about our own house.
the president		Tonight, listening to Taylor and Acheson, I kept seeing Burke and Dulles telling me all I had to do was sign on the dotted line.  The invasion would succeed.  Castro would be gone.  Just like that.  Easy.
reston		Kenny!  What happened?  They didn't let me up front, said the President was on the phone the whole time.
kenny		He was.
reston		Yeah?  Who was he talking to?  Acheson? Come on, O'Donnell, everyone's wondering what's going on.  What's Acheson doing in town?  And don't give me some bullshit about DNC think tanks. Acheson's Mr. Cold War.
kenny		Why don't you ask him yourself?  You can have him on the way home.
reston		I'm giving you a chance here: talk to me.  You can influence how this thing unfolds.
the president		Let's get out of here.
kenny		Cheer up, you've neutralized the entire White House Press Corps for a day.
bobby		No.  No.  No.  There is more than one option here.  If one isn't occurring to us, it's because we haven't thought hard enough.
mccone		Sometimes there is only one right choice, and you thank God when it's clear.
bobby		You're talking about a sneak attack! How'll that make us look?  Big country blasting a little one into the stone age.  We'll be real favorites around the world.
acheson		Bobby, that's naive.  This is the real world, you know that better than anybody.  Your argument is ridiculous.
mccone		You weren't so ethically particular when we were talking about options for removing Castro over at CIA.
bobby		I can't let my brother go down in History like a villain, like a Tojo, ordering another Pearl Harbor.
mcnamara		Six months ago we gamed out a scenario. It's slow.  It doesn't get rid of the missiles.  There are a lot of drawbacks.  The scenario was for a blockade of Cuba.
general taylor		The situation is worse than we thought. We count 40 missiles now, longer range IRBMs.  They can hit every city in the continental U.S.
lemay		Mr. President, as of this moment my planes are ready to carry out the air strikes.  All you have to do is give me the word, sir, and my boys will get those Red bastards.
the president		How long until the army is ready?
general taylor		We've just begun the mobilization under cover of a pre-arranged exercise, sir. We're looking at another week and a half, Mr. President.
lemay		But you can begin the strikes, now.  The plans call for an eight-day air campaign.  It'd light a fire under the army's ass to get in place.
the president		General LeMay, do you truly believe that's our best course of action?
lemay		Mr. President, I believe it is the only course of action.  American is in danger.  Those missiles are a threat to our bomber bases and the safety of our nuclear deterrent.  Without our deterrent, there's nothing to keep the enemy from choosing general nuclear war. It's our duty, our responsibility to the American people to take out those missiles and return stability to the strategic situation.  The Big Red Dog is digging in our back yard, and we're justified in shooting him.
general taylor		Sir, we have a rapidly closing window of opportunity where we can prevent those missiles from ever becoming operational. The other options...
lemay		Mr. President, the motto I chose for SAC is 'Peace is our Profession.'  God forbid we find ourselves in a nuclear exchange.  But if launched, those missiles in Cuba would kill a lot of Americans.  That's why I'm being such a pain in the ass about destroying them. Destroying them immediately.  Hell, even Mac agrees.
the president		General, what will the Soviets do when we attack?
lemay		Nothing.
the president		Nothing?
lemay		Nothing.  Because the only alternative open to them is one they can't choose.
the president		Those aren't just missiles we'll be destroying.  We kill Soviet soldiers, and they will respond.  How would we respond if they killed ours?  No, they will do something, General, I promise you that.  And I believe it'll be Berlin.
lemay		Those goddamn Kennedys are going to destroy this country if we don't do something about this.
kenny		I was hoping LeMay pushed you.  I wouldn't mind going a few rounds with him.
the president		We knew it was coming.  I tell you, Kenny, these brass hats have one big advantage.  We do what they want us to, none of us will be alive to tell 'em they were wrong.
sorensen		Mr. President, Gromyko should be on his way by now.
rusk		We need to go over what you're going to say.
bobby		There's still no sign they know that we know about the missiles.  Been a lot of cloud cover; probably think we aren't getting any good product.
the president		We keep 'em in the dark as long as we can.  But I sure as hell am going to test him.
salinger		Kenny, I'm getting funny questions from the guys in the press office.  As Press Secretary, I need to know.  What's going on?
kenny		They're planning to shave you bald next time you fall asleep on the bus.  Sorry, Pierre, Gromyko just arrived.
reston		Are they going to discuss the military exercises going on in Florida?
kenny		Come on, Scotty.  This meeting's been on the books for months.  It's just a friendly talk on U.S.-Soviet relations.
the president		So that there should be no misunderstanding, the position of the United States, which has been made clear by the Attorney General to Ambassador Dobrynin here, I shall read a sentence from my own statement to the press dated September 13th.  Should missiles or offensive weapons be placed in Cuba, it would present the gravest threat to U.S. national security.
gromyko		Mr. President, this will never be done. You need not be concerned.
the president		So I do not misunderstand you: there are no offensive weapons in Cuba.
gromyko		No, Mr. President.  We have sent defensive weapons only to Cuba.
bobby		What happened?
the president		Lying bastard.  Lied to my face.
bobby		We're split down the middle.  If I held a vote I think airstrike would beat blockade by a vote or two.
the president		I want a consensus, Bobby.  Consensus. Either air strike or blockade. Something everyone'll stand by even if they don't like it.  I need it by Saturday.  Make it happen.
bobby		What if I can't?
kenny		We go into this split, the Russians will know it.  And they'll use it against us.
the president		Have you cancelled Chicago and the rest of the weekend yet?
kenny		You don't show for Chicago, everyone'll know there's something going on.
the president		I don't care.  Cancel it.
kenny		No way.
the president		You're scared to cancel on Daly.
kenny		Damn right I'm scared.
the president		Well, I'm not.
bobby		Then you'll call, right?
salinger		Kenny, all right.  What's going on here? There's rumors going around an exercise in the southeast is related to Cuba. I'm the Press Secretary.  I can't do my job if I don't know what's going on.  So what's going on?
kenny		What are you telling them?
salinger		The truth: I don't know.
kenny		 The President may have a cold tomorrow.
salinger		Damn it, Kenny.  Goddamn it!
reston		There are major rail disruptions in the South, two airborne divisions are on alert.  That exercise is an invasion.
kenny		Well, you know how Bobby has it in for the State of Mississippi.
reston		This is about Cuba.
kenny		Cuba?  You're fucking crazy.  We are not invading Cuba.  Nobody gives a rat's ass about Cuba.  Not now, not ever. If you print something like that, all you're going to do is inflame the situation.  Nobody talks to assholes who inflame situations.  Assholes like that can find themselves cut out of the loop.
reston		You've never threatened me before.
kenny		 Bobby?
bobby		Bring him back.
salinger		The President has a cold.  He is cancelling the remainder of this trip and is returning to Washington on the advice of his doctor.
rusk		Mr. President, our deliberations have led us to the conclusion that, for the moment, a blockade of offensive weapons to Cuba is our best option.  But we'll still need a strong showing of support from the Organization of American States to give us an umbrella of legitimacy.
mcnamara		A blockade is technically an act of war, therefore we recommend calling the action a quarantine.
mcnamara		A quarantine prevents more missiles from reaching Cuba, but it doesn't remove the ones already there.  It gives the Soviets a chance to pull back without war.  If they refuse to remove the missiles before they're operational, we retain the option to strike or invade.
bobby		We believe that a surprise attack would be counter to what the United States stands for.  We believe that an attack leaves us no room for maneuver, and the inevitable Soviet response will force us into a war we do not want.  A war that, this time, will really end all war.
mccone		Mr. President, there are still those of us who believe we should proceed with the strikes.  With the blockade, we lose strategic surprise and we run the risk of a first strike if the Soviets decide they have to use the missiles or lose them.
the president		Quarantine or air strike.
adlai		There is a third option.  With either course we undertake the risk of nuclear war.  It seems to me maybe one of us in here should be a coward.
the president		I don't think that's possible, Adlai.  I will be asking the networks for air time Monday night.  I have not yet made my final decision.  We will announce our course of action then.  I want to thank you all for your advice, gentlemen.
bobby		Goddman Stevenson.  Jesus.  Peace at any price.  You'd think nobody learned anything from World War Two.
the president		Somebody had to say it.  I respect Adlai for having the guts to risk looking like an appeaser.
bobby		We have to pull him.  He's not going to be able to handle the Soviets in front of the U.N.  Zorin will eat him alive.
the president		We've got bigger problems right now.
kenny		We have to try the blockades.  It probably won't work.  It may just be delaying the inevitable.  But we can't just go to war without trying not to.
the president		I don't know.  I don't know.
adlai		Just can't get away from you guys. Escaping for a night on the town, eh?
kenny		As the town's most popular playboy, the President felt my presence would be sorely missed.  So in the interests of National Security...
adlai		Gotta keep up appearances.  Of course, I don't care anymore.  I'm a political dead man.  You ever seen a man cut his own throat like I did today?
kenny		We're not going to make it to Monday. I'll try to lean on Reston, but you're going to have to call Orville Dryfoos. This is the sort of decision the publisher makes himself.
dryfoos		Yes, sir, I understand.  But we held on Bay of Pigs and it was the biggest mistake of my life.  What makes this any different?
the president		I'm asking you to hold the story until I can present our course of action on Monday night.
dryfoos		All right.  But I need a reason to give my boys.  They're going to be screaming for my head on a plate.
the president		Orville.  I want you to tell them this: they'll be saving lives.  Maybe even including their own.
dryfoos		Yes, Mr. President.
kenny		Acheson called, DeGaulle's with us; haven't heard from anyone else yet.
bobby		He wants to talk to LeMay again.
the president		Cam, can you guarantee me you'll get all the missiles?
general sweeney		Sir, I can guarantee we'll get all the missiles we know about.
lemay		Mr. President, we can get better than ninety percent of them.
the president		As of seven o'clock Monday night, all United States armed forces world wide
kenny		You'd worry that something was wrong if Congress offered you unconditional support.
the president		They want this fucking job, they can have it.  It's no great joy to me.
the president		Good evening, my fellow citizens.  This Government, as promised, has maintained the closest surveillance of the Soviet military build-up on the island of Cuba...
the president		And third: it shall be the policy of this nation to regard any nuclear missile launched from Cuba against any nation in the Western Hemisphere as an attack by the Soviet Union on the United States, requiring a full retaliatory response upon the Soviet Union...
bobby		We're getting the Soviet response.
kenny		This is all rhetoric.  They don't know how to respond yet.
the president		So now you're Khurschev.  What do you do?
kenny		-- run the blockade.  They'll run the blockade.
admiral anderson		Which is exactly what they appear to be preparing to do, Mr. President.  We're tracking 26 ships inbound to Cuba. There's no sign they're changing course. The closest ships, the Gagarin and the Kimovsk, will make the quarantine line by this time tomorrow.
mcnamara		We're concerned about the possibility of an incident with an innocent cargo carrier.  If it turns ugly, the Russians could use an ugly incident and bad world opinion as leverage to force us to remove the quarantine.
mccone		Or they could use it as an excuse to escalate.
bobby		Admiral Anderson, if the ships do not stop, what exactly are our rules of engagement?
bobby		What happens if the ship doesn't stop for inspection or want to be towed?
admiral anderson		A warning shot will be fired across its bow.
bobby		And what happens if the ship ignores the warning shot?
admiral anderson		Then we fire at its rudder, disable it, and carry out the inspection.
the president		There will be no shooting without my explicit orders.  Is that understood?
admiral anderson		Yes, sir.
the president		Well, Admiral, it looks like it's up to the Navy.
admiral anderson		The Navy won't let you down, sir.
the president		General, have we developed any more information on the missiles?
general taylor		They are continuing to proceed with the development.  We're commencing low-level photography runs this morning.
mccone		The pictures will be used to firm up our estimates of the missiles' readiness and develop target packages for strikes should you order them.
general taylor		Our guy running this show is the best. Commander Bill Ecker of the Navy's VFP 62, the Fightin' Photo.  Something of a character, but the highest efficiency ratings we've ever had.
ecker		75 millimeter, I'm listening.  On the big screen there's nothing like it.
wilhemy		Watch out, Hollywood.  There's a new epic director in town!
general taylor		We have a flight of Thunderchiefs able to respond within minutes of an attack on our planes.
kenny		I don't like what's happening.
the president		In the morning I'm taking charge of the blockade from the situation room. McNamara'll set up shop in the flag plot at the Pentagon, keep an eye on things there.
kenny		All right.  'Cause you get armed boarders climbing into Soviet ships, shots being fired across bows...
the president		I know, I know...
kenny		What about these low-level flights? They're starting in what?  An hour?  Do you realize what you're letting yourself in for?
the president		We need those flights.  We have to know when those missiles become operational, because when they do, we need to destroy them.
kenny		Fair enough.  But Castro's on alert and we're flying attack planes over their sites, on the deck.  There's no way for them to know they're carrying cameras, not bombs.  They're going to be shot at, plain and simple.
the president		I'm gonna protect those pilots.
kenny		They're boxing us in with these rules of engagement.  If you agree to 'em, and one of our planes gets knocked down or one of the ships won't stop for inspection, the Chiefs will have us by the balls and will force us to start shooting.  They want a war, and they're arranging things to get one.  If you don't want one, we have to do something about it.
the president		How does a man get to a place where he can say, 'throw those lives away,' so easily?
kenny		Maybe it's harder for them to say it than they let on. At the very least, they believe it's in our best interest.  And at the end of the day, they may end up being right.
the president		Triple check everything the Chiefs say to us with the guys who actually have to do it.  No one's to know about this but Bobby.  I need redundant control over what happens out there.  And if things aren't as advertised, you're going to make sure they come out the way I want them to come out, starting with this low level flight thing.
kenny		That's going to be tough.  You know how these guys are about their chains of command...
the president		Any problems, you remind them those chains of commands end at one place. Me.
rusk		Mr. President. The OAS meeting starts in an hour.  I haven't prepared at all.  We can't expect --
the president		-- we need this one, Dean.  The quarantine's legal if we get a mandate, otherwise it's an act of war in the eyes of the world.  Get me that vote.  Make it unanimous.
rusk		Mr. President, The Organization of American States hasn't had a unanimous vote since --
the president		-- unanimous, Dean.
margaret		White House Operator.  Yes sir.  Speaker McCormack, hold for the Vice President.
kenny		Ma'am, would you mind helping me out with a few special calls?
ecker		Orson Welles is a hack.  Now you want to talk about a director, you talk about David Lean...
wilhemy		Welles is a G-d.  Lean's the hack.
ecker		Bullshit, Bruce, nobody but Lean is making decent movies these days.  Get that fixed yet?
young pilot		Uhhh... yup.  Think so.
duty sergeant		Sir...telephone, sir.
ecker		VFP-62, Fightin' Photo, here.  But what we really want to do is direct.
margaret		This is the White House Operator.  Hold for the President.
ecker		Oh shit.
margaret		Honey, you don't know what shit is.
kenny		Commander, my name is Ken O'Donnell. Special Assistant to the President.
ecker		Yes, sir.
ecker		Uh... we'll do our best, sir.
kenny		I don't think you understand me correctly.  You are not to get shot down under any circumstances.  Whatever happens up there, you were not shot at. Mechanical failures are fine; crashing into mountains, fine.  But you and your men are not to be shot at, fired at, launched upon.
ecker		Excuse me, sir, what's going on here?
kenny		Commander, if you are fired upon, the President will be forced to attack the sites that fire on you.  He doesn't want to have to do that.  It's very important that he doesn't, or things could go very badly out of control.
ecker		I think I understand.  What about my men?  If it comes up hot and heavy, and we don't have anyone to protect us... I'm going to be writing letters to parents.  I hate writing letters to parents.
kenny		If the President protects you, Commander, he may have to do it with the Bomb.
ecker		Okay, Mr. O'Donnell.  We'll do what we can.
ecker		Get that fuel assayed?
wilhemy		Yeah.  It sucks.  Ain't for high performance babies like ours.  Shoulda brought some from home, but what can you do?  Last-second deployments...
ecker		Okay, time to play Spin the Bottle with our bearded buddy.  Nobody gets out ahead.  Remember, just sitting here we're only ten minutes from target.
ecker		Go to military throttle on my mark. Three...two...one... mark.
ecker		Get some altitude!
ecker		Affirmative.  You two get out of here.
ecker		Start your camera checks.
ecker		-- Scrub, you two.  Get out of here. Still with me, Bruce?
wilhemy		Holy shit!
ecker		Lights.
wilhemy		You shoulda seen it, Chief, they --
ecker		-- damn sparrows.  Must've been migrating.  Guess I hit a couple hundred.  How many did you hit, Bruce?
wilhemy		A few.  I guess.
ecker		Those are bird strikes.  Sparrows to be precise.  Got a problem with that?
kenny		Yeah?
ball		Kenny.  The vote just came down.
rusk		Unanimous.  One abstenation.
the president		About time something went our way.
assistant		Telephone, Mr. O'Donnell.
kenny		Hello?
ecker		Mr. O'Donnell, I've been ordered to deliver the film to the Pentagon personally.  What's going on?
kenny		The Chiefs must want to talk to you.  Listen to me, Commander, they'll want to know if you were fired on.  Were you?
kenny		Commander.  Do not, under any circumstances, tell the Chiefs.
ecker		Commander William B. Ecker reporting as ordered!
lemay		Son , I want to know just one thing. Those bastards shoot so much as a BB gun at you?
ecker		Sir, it was a milk run, sir.
general taylor		It appears our low-level flights are getting back okay.  Some unconfirmed reports of small-arms fire from some of the missions, but that's it.
the president		Guess we can't blame Khruschev for a few patriotic farmers.  And the ships?
general taylor		Still heading for Cuba.
the president		All right.  Then I guess it's time.
the president		In accordance with this afternoon's vote at the OAS, the quarantine shall hereby be effective as of ten o'clock tomorrow morning.
the president		Last summer I read a book.  The Guns of August.  I wish every man on that blockade line had read that book.
kenny		I don't know, Helen.  I want you to keep the kids close tomorrow.  Leave the T.V. on, sleep with it on in the bedroom until I tell you you can turn it off.
kenny		Nothing.  Nothing you don't know about. Tomorrow's the big day.  Just have the car ready to go if I call or if the Civil Defense Warning comes on.
kenny		I'll be evacuated with the President.
kenny		I'll find you.  But we're not going to let it come to that.  I promise.
kenny		Helen just asked me what sort of arrangements we have for the families.
bundy		I just checked myself.  They're being issued identity cards. Call comes, and evacuation officers meet them at pre-arranged departure areas. They go by helicopter to Mount Weather. We meet them there.
bobby		Course that's for morale.  The missiles only take five minutes to get here.
police officer		Would you like me to call a car, Mr. O'Donnell.
kenny		How long will it take to get someone up?
police officer		Fifteen minutes, maybe.  To your house, sir?
kenny		No.  No, I'll let her sleep.  Let 'em sleep.
the president		Okay, Bob, I'm putting you on intercom.
mcnamara		I have one minute til ten here --
the president		Bob, the quarantine is now in effect.
mcnamara		Then it looks like our first customers are the Gagarin and Kimovsk.
captain		Helm, shape heading for intercept, zero one zero.  All ahead full --
chief sonarman		Submerged contact, designation Sierra
captain		A submarine...
general taylor		It's protecting the freighters.
the president		Bob, is there any way we can avoid stopping a submarine first?
the president		Put me through to the Pierce.
captain		Mr. President?
the president		Captain, can you force that submarine to the surface for inspection without damaging it yourself?
captain		I can bring it up, Mr. President.  But whether it's damaged or not is up to the sub.
mccone		Even if they force it up, that sub will be inspected over the crews' dead bodies.  They'd be executed for allowing it when they got home.
the president		Captain, force the sub to the surface for inspection.
the president		 Bob, where's that coming from!
the president		Will somebody find out what's going on?!
rusk		Are they stopping?
mcnamara		-- we've got reports coming from all over!  The ships are stopping!  Some... are turning around!
rusk		We were eyeball to eyeball and I think the other fellow just blinked.
mccone		Mr. President.
the president		Captain, have the ships you're observing changed course?
bobby		It's an accident.  They must not have gotten their orders yet.  Let 'em go.
general taylor		Unlikely, Mr. President.  We've been monitoring transmissions from both the Gagarin and Kimovsk.  Their radios are working fine.
mccone		One ship, an accident maybe.  Six: this is intentional.
kenny		They're right.  This is intentional.
mccone		If we do, it erodes the credibility of the quarantine.  He'll just send more through tomorrow.
kenny		Then we deal with it tomorrow.  But today he's stopped most of them.  He's done something smart here.  We gave him an ultimatum, and he's agreed to most of it, preserving just enough room to save face.  We need to do something just as smart now.
mcnamara		Mr. President, I agree.  Let them go. Four of the six continuing ships are still a day away from the line.  They've stopped all the ones we suspect have weapons aboard. It would look bad shooting up a freighter full of baby food.
the president		Captain, I want you to maintain contact with those ships.  Do nothing until I order otherwise.  Is that clear?
the president		I hope you're right.
bobby		What happened to speak when spoken to?
kenny		Give it a rest.  You were thinking the same thing, just didn't have the guts to take the heat.
the president		We can horsetrade with Khruschev on ships.  But it doesn't get us any closer to removing those missiles.
kenny		Have to hope it's a signal that he'll back down on the real issue too.
bobby		We're going to have to stop a ship eventually, show the quarantine's got teeth, or we'll prove McCone right.
the president		McNamara's on his way back here now.  We need to pick the right ship.  No subs. No armed boarding parties either.  We need a little more time to figure this one out.
kenny		Then let's move the quarantine line.
mcnamara		Mr. President.  Bobby.  Kenny.  The Essex battle group has the Gagarin, Kimovsk and the sub escort under their thumb.  We've got a few hours now before we need to worry about any more flashpoints on the line.  We could use a few more hours.  I think we should consider moving the quarantine line back to 500 miles.
kenny		Moving the line.  Stroke of genius.
mcnamara		 Of course it is.  But the President needs to realize we're going to have to stop a ship eventually.
kenny		The Chiefs are looking for a provocation out there.  The President's going to come under enormous pressure.  You have to keep 'em on a short leash, Bob.
mcnamara		You must think I'm blind and stupid. I've already gotten the birds and bees from Bobby.  The President doesn't have to double-barrel me.
kenny		Listen to me, goddamn it.  We're talking about a possible nuclear war.  You dropped the ball on Bay of Pigs --
mcnamara		-- you sonofabitch, goddamn it, I didn't drop --
kenny		You were in the room.  It was your purview.  It was your job to make sure Bissel wasn't fucking us over and you didn't do it.  You've got the most important job in the world right now. You're the smartest guy the President has.  Besides me.
mcnamara		Anybody ever tell you you're an egomaniac and a prick, O'Donnell?
kenny		You need to be the best you've ever been.
kenny		Find out how close our exercises are coming to their cruise missiles.  I'm calling you back in five, and you will have an answer for me or I will come down there and beat the shit out of you.  Then you can press charges, and I'll get a Presidential pardon.
the president		-- how the goddamn hell did this happen? I'm going to have Power's head on a platter next to LeMay's!  Hey, Kenny, did you hear me give the order to go to DEFCON 2?  I remember giving the order to go to DEFCON 3, but I must be suffering from amnesia because I've just been informed our nuclear forces are DEFCON 2!
general taylor		Technically, General LeMay is correct that SAC has the statutory authority --
the president		-- I have the authority.  I am the commander-in-chief of the United States, and I say when we go to war!
general taylor		We are not at war, sir, not until we're
the president		General, the Joint Chiefs have just signalled our intent to escalate to the Soviets.  You have signalled an escalation which I had no wish to signal, and which I did not approve.
bobby		LeMay... he's history.
the president		Get out of here, Max.
kenny		Jesus...
bobby		Rescind the order.  Can all the Chiefs. Put Nitze, Gilpatric and the Undersecretaries in charge.
kenny		We can't do that, Bobby.
the president		He's right, we can't rescind DEFCON 2. The Soviets will think we've gotten sweet on them.
kenny		And we can't purge the Chiefs.  Our invasion talk will look like a bluff. Or even that there's been an attempted coup.
bobby		McNamara won't be able to handle them. It's too much for one man...  ...with all due respect to our heroic fifth column.
kenny		We've got Khruschev's attention with the blockade.  If we want a political solution.  I think it's time to turn up the diplomatic heat.  Cause if we let this go on too long, we're going to find ourselves in a war.
the president		I've been considering a variation on one of Stevenson's ideas.  We're going to send up a trial balloon through Lippman. The Jupiter missiles.
bundy		What did you think of Lippman's column this morning?
kenny		I think it's a bad idea.
bundy		Thank God.  Look, everyone is furious about it.  We trade away our missiles in Turkey and we're fucked politically.
kenny		Then they should speak up.
bundy		Christ, Ken, you know it's not that easy.
kenny		Yes it is.
bundy		No it isn't.  They don't trust the people that feel this way.  But these people are right.  And the Kennedys are wrong.  We need you to tell 'em, Kenny.  They'll listen to you.
kenny		-- You listen to me.  Nobody, nobody, talks about my friends that way.  You're fucking here right now because of the Kennedys.  They may be wrong.  They make mistakes.  But they're not weak. The weak ones are these 'people' who can't speak their own minds.
bundy		You know I don't mean they're weak.
kenny		No, they just lack 'moral toughness.' And you think I'll play your Judas.  You WASPS and blue-bloods never understood us, thinking we want into your club. Well we got our own club now.  And you guys don't realize fighting with each other is our way.  Nobody plays us off each other.  And nobody ever gets between us...
the president		What's that?
kenny		Oh, just a bunch of crap about withdrawing our Jupiter missiles in Turkey if the Soviets'll do the same in Cuba.
the president		I don't want to listen to this again.
kenny		If we made a trade, we'd be giving in to extortion, and NATO would never trust us again.  We'll get clobbered in world opinion.
the president		It's a goddman trial balloon.  Trial is the operative word, here.
kenny		Then somebody'd better deny it publicly.
the president		Jesus Christ, O'Donnell, you're the one saying we need to move forward on a political solution.
kenny		Yeah, a good political solution.
the president		You want to turn up the heat?  You call Adlai.  Tell him to stick it to Zorin.
bobby		Adlai's too weak!  We have to convince Jack to pull him, get McCloy in there.
kenny		You can't take him out this late in the game.
bobby		Zorin will eat him alive!
kenny		Then talk to your brother, goddamn it. The two of you don't need any advice to get into trouble.
bobby		What's gotten into you?
kenny		Something your father would've come up with.
bobby		My father --
kenny		-- I'm just trying to make a point. This idea is that fucking bad.
bobby		He better.  Because nobody thinks he's up to this.  Nobody.
adlai		Yes?
kenny		Adlai, it's Kenny.  How're you doing?
adlai		Busy, Ken. What do you need?
kenny		The President told me to pass the word to you: stick it to them.
kenny		Adlai.  The world has to know we're right.  If we're going to have a chance at a political solution, we need international pressure.  You got to be tough, Adlai.  You need to find it, old friend.
adlai		I hear you.  I'm glad it's you calling. I thought it would be Bobby.  If they're still sticking to their stonewall strategy, I'll get 'em.  Thanks, Ken.
adlai		Wait here.
romanian delegate		 ...we call upon the world to condemn this purely American provocation...
zorin		 We are glad you could join us, Mr. Stevenson.
bobby		I make the call, and Adlai is out. McCloy goes in.
the president		Let's hope it doesn't come to that.
zorin		The United States has no facts in hand. Falsity is what America has in its hands - false evidence.
adlai		Well, let me say something to you, Mr. Ambassador, we do have the evidence.  We have it, and it is clear and incontrovertible.
bundy		Come on, Adlai!
adlai		Mr. Zorin, I remind you that the other day you did not deny the existence of these weapons.  But today, again, if I heard you correctly, you now say they do not exist.
rusk		Come on, Adlai, don't let him off!
bobby		John?  It's Bobby.  Get ready to send your staffer in.  He's going to be coming out.
adlai		All right, sir.  Let me ask you one simple question.  Do you, Ambassador Zorin, deny that the U.S.S.R. has placed and is placing medium and intermediate range missiles and sites in Cuba?  Yes or no - don't wait for the translation - yes or no?
kenny		Yeah.  Yeah.
zorin		I am not in an American courtroom, sir, and therefore I do not wish to answer a question that is put to me in the fashion in which a prosecutor puts questions.  In due course, sir, you will have your answer.
adlai		You are in the courtroom of world opinion right now, and you can answer yes or no.  You have denied they exist, and I want to know if I have understood you correctly.
bobby		John, I'll get back to you.
adlai		And I'm prepared to present the evidence in this room, proving that the Soviet Union has lied to the world.
zorin		If you do not choose to continue your statement, the Chair recognizes the representative from Chile.
chilean delegate		I yield my time and the floor to the representative to the United States.
adlai		Well then, ladies and gentlemen, since it appears we might be here for a while, shall we have a look at what the Soviets are doing in Cuba?
the president		Didn't know Adlai had it in him.  Too
kenny		Zorin must not have gotten instructions. Somebody in their Foreign Ministry's blown it big-time.
bundy		Mr. President...
mcnamara		...the ship is called Groznyy.
mcnamara		It crossed the line hours ago.
admiral anderson		Hail them again.
mcnamara		We're kidding ourselves...
admiral anderson		Very well.  Load your guns.
mcnamara		What was that, Admiral?
admiral anderson		We've been hailing the Groznyy for the last hour, Mr. Secretary.  The Groznyy refuses to stop.
mcnamara		What are you doing?
admiral anderson		Carrying out our mission, Mr. Secretary. If you don't mind, we're very busy right now.  We need to be able to do our jobs.
mcnamara		Admiral, I asked you a question.
admiral anderson		We're going to follow the Rules of Engagement.  The Rules of Engagement which the President has approved and signed in his order of October 23rd.
mcnamara		What --
mcnamara		GODDAMNIT, STOP THAT FIRING!
admiral anderson		That ship was firing starshells. Starshells.  Flares, Mr. Secretary.
mcnamara		Starshells.
admiral anderson		Get out of our way, Mr. Secretary.  The navy has been running blockades since the days of John Paul Jones.
mcnamara		I believe the President made it clear that there would be no firing on ships without his express permission.
admiral anderson		With all due respect, Mr. Secretary, we were not firing on the ship.  Firing on a ship means attacking the ship.  We were not attacking the ship.  We were firing over it.
mcnamara		This was not the President's intention when he gave that order.  What if the Soviets don't see the distention?  What if they make the same mistake I just did?  There will be no firing anything near ANY Soviet ships without my express permission, is that understood, Admiral?
admiral anderson		Yes, sir.
mcnamara		And I will only issue such instructions when ordered to by the President.  John Paul Jones... you don't understand a thing, do you, Admiral?
rusk		Kenny, we need to see the President. Something's happened.
scali		I have lunch with him maybe once a month.  Way he talks, he acts like he knows Khruschev personally, but he's never elaborated.  I've used him as a source in a couple of stories.
rusk		The FBI has identified this Alexander Fomin as the Soviet Resident, the KGB equivalent of one of our station chiefs. He's their highest ranking spy in this country.  And he knows John's a friend of mine.
bundy		All the trademarks of a back-channel overture.
the president		So they'll remove the missiles, and we'll pledge not to invade Cuba, destabilize Castro or assist anyone who plans in doing so...
bobby		I think... this may be our first real message from Khruschev.
mccone		The alternative, Mr. President, is that this could be a trap.
kenny		Dangle a settlement, tie us down in negotiations, we come up short...
mccone		Why else would they approach us in this way?  It's deniable.  The Soviets have done nothing but lie to us.  This could be more of the same.
kenny		That may be why Khruschev's introducing this guy.  We've been burned by his usual players in the formal channels, so he brings in an honest broker.
mccone		That may be what they want us to think.
rusk		The truth is, Mr. President, we don't even really know whom Fomin speaks for. It could be Khruschev. It could be some faction in the Politburo or the KGB itself.  We just don't know.
bobby		By the way, Scali, your activities now fall under the secrecy codicils of the National Security Act.  Sorry, no Pulitzer.
scali		Mr. President, we don't have much time. I'm supposed to meet with him again in three and a half hours.
the president		Well, it seems the question of the day is -- is the offer legitimate?
general taylor		Mr. President, I'm afraid we have some bad news.  We're getting GMAIC estimates from our latest low-level overflights. It appears the missiles are two to three days away from operational status.
mccone		So we don't have much time to play out back-channel communiques.
general taylor		The quarantine, sir, is not producing results.  The Chiefs feel it's time you take another look at our options.
the president		Kenny, get over to your old stomping grounds.  Go through everything the FBI has on Fomin.  I need your best call: is this guy legit and is he speaking for Khruschev?  And I need you to tell me by the time I call you, because right after I call you, I'm calling Scali with his instructions.
sheridan		Okay.  So, what we've got is this guy Alexander Feklisov, aka Alexander Fomin, declared Consul to the Soviet Embassy, but in reality the KGB Papa Spy.  An illustrious tour of duty during the Great Patriotic War gets him on the Party fast track, various tours of duty in KGB, American postings.  He's an expert on us, and... that's all we've got on Papa Spy.
kenny		Who's he talking for?  Is it Khruschev, or is this more bullshit?
sheridan		Gotta know someone.
kenny		Politics is politics.  Walter.  Khruschev is the Moscow Party Boss under Stalin.  Give me their career chronologies!
kenny		They know each other.  They're war buddies.
sheridan		It's thin.  But real life usually is.
kenny		Hello?
kenny		They know each other!  Khruschev and Feklisov aka Fomin were war buddies!
kenny		Don't take it to court, but we've got good circumstantial evidence...  Walter agrees.  My gut's telling me Khruschev's turning to a trusted old friend to carry his message.
scali		I am instructed to tell you that the American Government would respond favorably to an offer along the lines you have discussed.  If this solution were raised at the U.N. by Ambassador Zorin, he would find a favorable reply from Ambassador Stevenson.
fomin		So I understand you correctly.  If the missiles in Cuba were dismantled, returned to the Soviet Union, and a guarantee was made not to reintroduce them, the United States would be prepared to guarantee that it would never invade Cuba?
scali		That is correct.
fomin		This is from the Highest Authority?
scali		Yes.  From the Highest Authority.  There are two conditions.  The U.N. must be allowed to inspect the removal of the missiles.
fomin		And, of course, the U.N. must be allowed to observe the redeployment of forces from the American Southeast.
scali		Time is of the essence.
fomin		John.  How much time?
scali		48 hours.  In 48 hours there can be no deals.
scali		He left right away.  Got the feeling he meant business.
rusk		Mr. President, we're receiving a letter from Khruschev over at State.
translator		...two...of...us...pull...on...the... knot...of...war...
kenny		It's ten pages of sentimental fluff, but he's saying right here.  He'll remove the missiles in return for a no-invasion pledge.  It looks like Fomin's overture was genuine.
mccone		Our early analysis says this was probably written by Khruschev himself. It's a first draft, and shows no signs of being polished by the foreign ministry.  In fact, it probably hasn't been approved by the Politburo.  They wouldn't have let the emotionalism go by.  The analysts say it was written by someone under considerable stress.
the president		Glad to hear we're not alone.
kenny		Hi.
helen		Hi, O'Donnell.  You look old.
kenny		-- we got a back channel communication from Khruschev this evening feeling us out about a deal.  He confirmed it just a little while ago in a letter to the President.  I think we've won.
helen		A thing like this... who could even think of winning?
bobby		Where've you been?  We've been trying to find you all morning.
kenny		Helen and I went out for breakfast. EXCOM's not supposed to convene til eight.
bobby		We just got a second letter from Khruschev.  The deal's off.
bobby		We're getting everyone together as fast as we can.
kenny		What does the letter say?
bobby		They want us to take our missiles out of Turkey along with the no invasion pledge.  It looks like Fomin was a ploy after all, and they were just stalling for time.
mccone		My specialists are in agreement: this morning's letter is not Khruschev.  Last night's letter was.  The evidence supports only one conclusion: there has been a coup, and Khruschev was replaced overnight.
kenny		Jesus Christ...
the president		Dean?
rusk		It doesn't necessarily mean there's been a coup.  Khruschev's name is signed to the letter.
mcnamara		Aw, come on, Dean!
rusk		But at the very least... It does suggest he's been co-opted by hard line elements.
mcnamara		Which at the end of the day is the same thing as a coup.  A puppet Khruschev, and a hard-line Soviet government pulling the strings.  No deal.  And the missiles are almost operational.
the president		You know, the problem we have is that this is latest offer of theirs will seem reasonable to everyone.  We remove our missiles, they remove theirs. Our Jupiters were scheduled for removal anyway.  They're obsolete, after all.
rusk		Mr. President, agreeing to such a trade would be tantamount to paying ransom. They'll put a gun to our head again, and expect us to pay again.
kenny		We can't sell out one of our friends for our own safety.  NATO wouldn't trust us anymore, and they'd be right not to.
the president		So which one of you geniuses can tell me how to explain ourselves to the world? How do we work with them if there's been a hard-line coup?
general taylor		Mr. President, there is another possibility we haven't considered.  This may not be a coup at all.
mcnamara		Designed to keep us from taking action.
lundahl		Mr. President...
mcnamara		Then we're out of time.  We have to go in.
lundahl		That may not be as easy as we thought either.  We've gotten confirmation that the Soviets have also deployed battlefield nuclear weapons to Cuba.
lemay		FROGS, we call 'em.  Short range tactical nukes.  It's possible they've delegated release authority to their local commanders for use against our invasion troops.  It'd be standard doctrine.  Our capability to get all the missiles has eroded during our delay with the quarantine.  The good news is that for the moment we know where the FROGS are, and we can target them, too.  But the longer we wait, the hard it's going to get.
the president		Then we have no choice.  General, issue the warning orders to our forces.  They will be prepared to execute the air strikes Monday morning and the follow-on invasion according to the schedule thereafter.  I'll need the official release orders on my desk Sunday night.
general taylor		Understood, sir.  We need to step up the overflights, finalize our pilots' target folders in order to be able to carry out the strikes.
the president		Permission granted.
major anderson		This is Major Anderson.
kenny		Major, my name is Kenneth O'Donnell. Special Assistant to the President.
major anderson		Go ahead, sir.
kenny		Last night, we looked like we were going to cut a deal to get us all out of this mess.  Today, the Soviets are reneging. We're going to try to salvage the situation, but a lot of things are going wrong today.  It's making everyone nervous, and it will be very hard to avoid going to war.  Don't get shot down, Major.  Beyond that, whatever else you can do to help us, I'd really appreciate it.
major anderson		When you're up there at 72,000 feet, there's a million things that can go wrong.  Is your oxygen mix right?  Will your cameras freeze up?  Are you leaving contrail...  Those million things are beyond your control, mostly... But you know, when you realize that, there's a kind of peace.  You don't need to be in control. You never were in control in the first place.  If you're a good man, and your ground crew are good men, it's all you can ask for.  And with the grace of G-d, it'll get you through.
kenny		Thank you, Major.
major anderson		This is flight G3132, requesting permission for take-off.
major anderson		Roger that.
the president		Does this attack on our plane represent a definitive, intentional escalation on the part of the Soviets?
general taylor		The Soviets are in control of the SAMs. It's hard to believe with their centralized command structure that it could be an accidental launch.
mccone		Mr. President, taken with the events of the past few hours, I believe this confirms our worst fears.  We're now dealing with a hard-line Soviet government, perhaps with Khruschev as a puppet head, perhaps not.
kenny		It could be a mistake.
bundy		A U-2 on a routine air-sampling mission over Siberia got lost and penetrated Soviet airspace.  The Soviets scrambled MIGs in pursuit, thinking it was a bomber.  It got out okay.  Somebody forgot to cancel the mission.
the president		Goddammitt.  There's always some sonofabitch who doesn't get the word. All we need is the Soviets thinking we're bombing them.  Anybody else?
general taylor		Mr. President, our pilots are in danger. We must order punitive airstrikes against the SAM site that shot down Major Anderson per our rules of engagement.
the president		No.  I want confirmation there wasn't some sort of accident first.
lemay		I think that's a good idea, Mr. President.  It'll be safer for my boys to get those SAMs on Monday when we get the rest of the bastards.  I can wait a day and a half.
the president		Very well, then.
kevin		Hey!  Dad!
kenny		Hey, sport.  You winning?
kevin		Yeah.
kenny		Yeah, Kev.  Everything's gonna be fine.
kevin		I guess you won't be coming home tonight.
kenny		I, uh...
bobby		Kenny!  We need to talk.
kenny		Get back out there, kid.  Remember to hit 'em hard.
kevin		What about you?  Where are you going?
kenny		Back to work.
kenny		If we're going to make a deal, we're going to have to do it fast.  This is only getting out of control.  The only reason we're not at war this very minute is he's been able to stretch, bend and break his own rules.  He won't be able to keep it up forever.
bobby		And?
kenny		And Jack wants to trade the missiles in Turkey.
bobby		The Jupiters are obsolete.  They were supposed to have been dismantled last summer anyway --
kenny		-- Jesus, Mary and Joseph.  I told you how stupid it was to float the Lippman article!  But you wouldn't listen to me. What if there hasn't been a coup at all? What if it's you two who invited that second letter by raising the possibility of a trade?
bobby		All right, so maybe we overestimated how reasonable this trade would look.  Okay? You happy?  So now what?
kenny		So now you've got to talk him out of it. And then we've got to figure out an acceptable political solution.
bobby		And if there has been a coup and there is no acceptable political solution?
rusk		Whatever response we send, it will take several hours for the wire to be received by our embassy and delivered to the Kremlin.  So we're looking at early tomorrow morning at the earliest before Khruschev could respond.
bobby		He gets it, but he's pissed.
the president		That's all well and good, but what do we say to 'em?
sorensen		It depends on if we really believe there's been a coup.
kenny		I agree.  If there has been a coup, and there's a hard-line government in power now, then it doesn't matter what we say. The end of the day we'll either agree to their terms, they'll agree to ours, or we'll go to war.  But what if there hasn't been a coup?  What if... what if what is happening is a series of accidents?
sorensen		The second letter is an accident?
kenny		No.  The letter is an intentional, but it's having an effect far greater than its authors intended.  And then these accidents have happened.
bobby		Making the second letter and the overall picture look worse than it really is.
sorensen		The Guns of August.
kenny		Exactly.  If they're sane and human like we are, then maybe we just refuse, and they'll let it slide, like we've been letting things slide.
sorensen		So we reject the second letter.
kenny		No.  We don't reject it...
bobby		... We accept the first letter and pretend the second doesn't exist.
mccone		It won't work --
mcnamara		Ignore the second letter, agree to the conditions of the first...
general taylor		There's no reason to believe the Soviets will let it go.
rusk		Max is right.  Why will they accept it?
mcnamara		It can work.  If, IF they believe we'll hit them.
rusk		But we have to make them agree to it. So how do we do that?
the president		We give them something.  We tell them we'll remove the missiles from Turkey say, six months from now so that there appears to be no linkage.  We also tell them if they go public about it, we deny it and the deal is off.
kenny		And we do it under the table so we can disavow any knowledge of it.
mccone		It's transparent.  The press'll be all over it.
kenny		Six months from now, I'm not going to care.  Are you?  We'll deal with it.
mcnamara		At least it will expose whether Khruschev has been overthrown.  We'll know what we're dealing with.
kenny		And if this is a move to appease the hard line, then it may just be the bone he needs to regain control of his own house.
rusk		Whoever carries the message has to hit the nail on the head.  Come across as too soft, they'll push us.  Too hard, they'll be cornered and even more dangerous.
mccone		They could pre-empt.
the president		Bobby.  You know Dobrynin best.
bobby		What do you want?  A good-bye kiss?
limo driver		Hey, Kenny.
kenny		Hey, Joe.  Listen, I'll take care of him.  Go ahead in, grab some coffee. We'll be back pretty quick.
limo driver		You sure?
kenny		What's the matter with you?  Forget how to open a car door?
kenny		Jesus, you rich people.
bobby		I don't know if I can do this.
kenny		There's nobody else I'd rather have going in there.
bobby		Take a left.
kenny		Because we knew we could do a better job than everyone else.
bobby		You know... I hate being called the brilliant one.  The ruthless one.  They guy who does the dirty work.  The one everybody's afraid of.
kenny		You're right about the smart part, but ruthless, well...
bobby		Slow down.  Smell that?
kenny		Smoke.
bobby		Just wanted to see for myself.  They're burning their documents.
kenny		I'll whistle up some luck for you.
the woman		Who are you?
kenny		The friend.
bobby		Ambassador Dobrynin, we are aware that at this moment your missiles in Cuba are at the brink of operational readiness...
bobby		My brother, my friends, my countrymen and I cannot and will not permit those missiles to become operational.  I promise you that.
dobrynin		Then I fear our two nations will go to war.  And I fear where war will lead us.
bobby		If the missiles do not become operational, if you remove the missiles, then there will be no war.  At this moment, the President is accepting the terms of Secretary Khruschev's letter of Friday night.  If the Soviet Union halts construction immediately, removes the missiles, and submits to U.N. inspection, the United States will pledge to never invade Cuba or aid others in that enterprise.
dobrynin		If your Jupiter missiles in Turkey were removed also, such an accommodation could be reached.
bobby		 -- was in error.
dobrynin		You want war...
bobby		However, while there can be no quid pro quo on this issue, the United States can offer a private assurance.
dobrynin		This private assurance represents the word of the Highest Authority?
bobby		Yes.
dobrynin		And it can be relayed beyond Comrade Khruschev's ears to the top circles of my government
bobby		Of course.  Our pledge can be relayed to any government official Secretary Khruschev sees fit to satisfy.
dobrynin		Tomorrow...
bobby		Tomorrow...
dobrynin		Then you must excuse me and permit me to relay the substance of our discussion to my superiors.
the president		We were just debating who had it worse, us or George Washington and his guys.
bobby		He didn't have to worry about nuclear weapons.
the president		Yeah, but the country didn't even exist as a country yet.  It was a mess, and he didn't have a leg to stand on.
kenny		All he had was his character.
bobby		How does a guy get a rep like that?
the president		Doesn't matter to me.  If I went down in history like Adams, I'd die happy.  All they say about him today is --
kenny		-- he kept the peace.
the president		You know, we never did control it.  Not really.  Not like we think.
helen		I saw you out there.  You want him to call you back, need you.
kenny		No.  I'm glad I'm home.
helen		How long do we have?
kenny		If the sun rises in the morning, it is only because of men of goodwill.  And that's all there is between us and the Devil.
kenny		Yeah?
the president		Hey!  Hey.  Okay, that's enough.
bundy		We've been talking.  We can play this big in '64.  It's the foreign policy trophy we've been waiting.
mccone		We've ordered crash reassessment of our major geopolitical hotspots.  We've got a lot of new clout, and we can run the table on the Soviets.  Middle East, Southeast Asia...
mcnamara		What's wrong, O'Donnell?
kenny		Don't you understand?
bundy		Understand what?
kenny		The sun came up today.
bundy		Yeah.
kenny		It shouldn't have.  But it did.
mccone		We were lucky we were able to keep it under control.
kenny		Every day the sun comes up... says something about us.
bundy		Says what, Kenny?
kenny		Something... amazing.
mcnamara		Sure, Ken.  I understand.  Feels good to win, doesn't it?
bundy		See you later, Kenny.
the president		Kenny...
kenny		You know...
****Dialogues from script :This_Boy_s_Life.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  THIS BOY'S LIFE FADE IN:  1   EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY                                          1 It is 1957, and we are in the deserts of Utah. TONY BENNETT sings "Rags to Riches" on the SOUNDTRACK. Breath-taking scenery stretches out on either side of a highway. The CAMERA MOVES to reveal a Nash Ambassador as it labors up a hill. Twelve cars are caught behind the thirty-mile- per-hour pace. Two cars decide to ignore safety and cross the solid yellow line to pass the pokey car.
2.		2   CONTINUED:                                              2 CAROLINE  Toby, hush. Let me just... So concentrated on her driving she doesn't even finish her sentence, she nurses the car upward. Finally the car crests the hill and starts down. Caroline sighs with relief. She turns to Toby with a smile. CAROLINE What'd you say? TOBY I said -- for the twentieth time -- if a person promises somebody something, they can't just turn around and take it back. CAROLINE Oh, honey, Jesus. Don't start with that again. TOBY Why not? CAROLINE Because I'm the mother, and I get to tell you what to do every minute of your life 'til you're eighteen. Seriously, we've got no money. I can't buy you the moccasins. TOBY I bet if you'd promised Roy some moccasins he'd of got 'em.
caroline		No talk about Roy, okay? And ditto the moccasins. We, can't, afford, them. TOBY Yeah, but you did promise... CAROLINE Sue me. Take me to court. Oh, Toby, I know you're disappointed, but... TOBY Jack.   Call me Jack. 
3.		2   CONTINUED:    ... Jeanette. Jeanette Marie. TOBY Oh, you're so stupid sometimes, I... The BAWLING of an AIRHORN interrupts him. Both of them look through the back window and see a huge tractor- trailer truck, out of control, bearing down on them. Caroline brakes and steers a hard right, SKIDDING the NASH safely onto the side of the road. The truck, its HORN BLASTING steadily, shimmies and slides past them, and then, hideously, fails to make the next curve: it smashes through the guard rails and into empty space, its HORN still BLARING. Caroline and Toby look at each other, then scramble out of the car.
caroline		Well, it was everywhere in Moab, they say -- just like gold in the gold-rush days. TOBY But we were too late in Moab, and that guy at the office said nobody'd found any uranium in Salt Lake City. CAROLINE Well, that means we'll have the place pretty much to ourselves, huh? Honey, this could be a big break for us. If this works out, oh, just think: we'll get us a house, get rid of this damn Nash Ambassador -- no money worries... It'll be like heaven on a June day.
5.		6   INT. CAR - DAWN                                           6 We hear "MOOD INDIGO" on the car RADIO and see that a weary Caroline has driven through the night and Toby is slumped against the passenger door. Toby stirs, then opens his eyes. CAROLINE Ask me how far we are from Salt Lake City. Toby is instantly awake, excited. Caroline points to a small highway sign and both she and Toby yell out. CAROLINE/TOBY Forty-seven miles to go!
toby		It almost makes me want to see Roy -- he was the only one could make the thing stop overheating.  Let's go get rich in Salt Lake City!
6.		8    EXT. SALT LAKE CITY  - DAY                       8 Toby waits beside the Nash Ambassador, looking toward a three-story concrete building. He holds a portable RADIO, which PLAYS DEAN MARTIN singing "Volare."
10.		15    CONTINUED:                                              15 TOBY Yeah, well if you'd stayed married to Dad none of this would've ever happened. CAROLINE Look, don't you put that    on my back: I can't make your     father call you. I can't make     your brother write you. They     dumped you. Yes. But it's not      my fault.
11.		16A   CONTINUED:                                            16A TOBY I'm sorry. CAROLINE I know you are, honey. Ah, well -- it wasn't fire, and nobody bled, so I guess we're okay. The TELEPHONE RINGS and she answers it.   When she hears the VOICE on the other end she once again  touches her right cheekbone with a finger -- the spot  where the bruise had been. She sags back against a   wall. CAROLINE Yes...  All right, yes... in an hour, then. Caroline hangs up. TOBY Who was that? She closes her eyes. TOBY Who was that? Caroline laughs aloud, then slides down the wall until she's on the floor still laughing. CAROLINE We've got a guest for dinner: it's Roy. He tracked us down. Toby groans and falls full-length onto the sofa.
12.		17   CONTINUED:                                               17 ROY ... I found me a room, but it's clear the hell and gone 'cross town. And I think I got a job lined up doin' tune-ups in a Texaco station. How you like it at Winstead's? CAROLINE How do you know where I work? ROY I been here almost a week. CAROLINE You followed me around?    For a week? Watching? Roy doesn't answer.   He just wiggles his eyebrows like Groucho Marx. CAROLINE And how did you ever find me? Again, Roy does the Groucho Marx.    He turns to Toby. ROY You like the rifle, Toby?    'Jack,' I mean. TOBY It's the best present I ever got. I just love it.  I'm going to pretend I'm shooting.
caroline		Don't point that thing at anybody or I won't teach you to shoot. TOBY It's not loaded! CAROLINE You heard me:    anybody or any thing. TOBY It's got no bullets, for God's sake. CAROLINE Don't make me speak to you again. 
13.		17   CONTINUED:                                                17 TOBY I'll point it at the sky, then. Caroline sighs. Toby opens a screenless window and points the gun up into the night sky, pretending to fire it over and over. Caroline starts to clear the table. Roy jumps up to help her.
caroline		Don't.   Toby's still up. Roy leans back, smiling, and eyes Caroline. ROY You are one sweet thing, baby: just the sight of you makes my dick hard. He pulls her to him, starting to kiss her. She fends him off, looking worriedly toward the room where Toby's light burns. ROY Aw, he won't hear anything. Again he pulls her toward him; again she turns her head from the kiss.
14.		19   INT. KITCHEN - PARALLEL TIME                                  19 Dressed for bed, Toby stands by an open window. He can hear every WORD of ROY'S, who continues to apologize between kisses. The room is illuminated by a nearby streetlamp. The frosty air from the open window causes his breath to steam. He raises two fingers to his lips, pretends to take a drag on a cigarette and blows out the steam from his breath. The VOICES in the other room grow a bit LOUDER, almost to an argument, and then SUBSIDE again. Toby takes another drag from his pretend cig- arette. He looks very young.
15.		20   CONTINUED:                                              20 WOMAN #2 That sounds like fun. TOBY It is. I've got a palomino horse and a collie, and Dad lets us go on hunts all by ourselves. He gave me this Winchester .22, and last year I shot a mountain lion with it. And Lad -- that's my dog -- found a nest of rattlesnakes one time, and killed all twelve of them... The two Women exchange a glance.     It's obvious the boy is lying.
16.		21   CONTINUED:                                              21 CAROLINE Not if I can help it. I looked out the window at work today, and he was parked across the street, watching. TOBY Roy's so uncool. So boring. CAROLINE You liked him well enough last night.  'Oh, Roy, I just love my rifle so much! It's the bestest present ever!' TOBY Oh, shut up. But he's smiling, completely unbothered. Suddenly Caroline laughs, stands up, and begins to close the suitcases. Toby laughs, too. TOBY Now? We're going now?     What about all the food? CAROLINE Leave it. TOBY Even the canned stuff? CAROLINE Leave it! They grab the four heavy suitcases and head out the door. Both of them are laughing.
17.		22   CONTINUED:                                              22 Toby and Caroline groan, then Caroline brightens. CAROLINE What about Seattle? TICKET SELLER  Leaves in nine minutes. They look at each other.
18.		24    CONTINUED:                                          24 CAROLINE  Yeah, yeah... Toby exits the house. But, Jesus, what a new Toby: he's turned cool. A few months have passed.  He now wears T-shirts and jeans which ride way low on his hips. As he walks along, he combs his hair into a duck's ass in back, and forward into a curl at the center of his forehead. He's 1957 hip -- or thinks he is.  He strolls on, feeling cool.
19.		26   INT. LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON                                  26 As the three boys troop through the room, they pass Terry Silver's two SISTERS, who are sprawled sensually on a sofa. SISTER #1 Oh look -- it's Elvis, Elvis, and Elvis. TERRY TAYLOR Excuse me, but does your face hurt? 'Cause it's killing me. With that piece of high wit, they're out of the room.
20.		27    CONTINUED:                                             27 Making wet kissing noises, or just rocking their heads back and forth as if tempted beyond endurance. Then, slowly, they shut up and lie back down.
21.		28   CONTINUED:                                               28 TOBY Don't want who? KATHY 
22.		28   CONTINUED:    I always say people can call me anything they want, long as they don't call me late for supper! Kathy and Marian think it's pretty funny.     They laugh. Caroline smiles. Toby just stares. DWIGHT So, Jack, you like school? TOBY No.
marian		He might like it if he ever went there and tried it. TOBY Oh, have another cookie, Marian -- keep your strength up. MARIAN I'd like to just yank that nasty tongue of yours out by the roots. CAROLINE 
23.		28   CONTINUED:   
24.		28   CONTINUED:    and they exit. As Dwight leaves he kisses his hand, then throws the kiss toward Marian and Kathy. The instant the front door slams: TOBY                MARIAN                      KATHY What a geek.      I love a man knows      He's so appealing. how to dress.
25.		30   CONTINUED:                                                 30 TOBY  Stop what? CAROLINE Sometimes I could kill you as free as I could eat a bite.
toby		 Ditto. A car stops and through a window, we see Dwight. Caroline turns to Toby. CAROLINE Please be nice. Toby stops the buck-toothed thing and speaks normally. TOBY All right.
26.		31    CONTINUED:                                                   31 DWIGHT  Hunting, too: there's game everywhere you look. I don't think I flatter myself by saying that I'm something of a whiz with a rifle, and Concrete gives me every opportunity to prove it...
26a.		A33   CONTINUED:                                                  A33 DWIGHT So here we go. Welcome to Concrete. Dwight's home sweet home. Finest people in the whole state of Washington, you ask me. Lots of churches, too. A neighbor of mine says, "Looking for nice churches, come to Concrete. Looking for sin, go to hell." I think that's funny... Caroline and Toby are severely underimpressed with their first impression of Concrete.
27.		33   CONTINUED:                                              33 DWIGHT  Jack Wolff. These are my kids: Skipper, Norma and my baby, Pearl. Everybody says hello, shakes hands, then they all head into the house.
28.		35   CONTINUED:                                            35 DWIGHT  How about you guys? You like it here? They glance at each other.
norma		It's a little isolated, is all. DWIGHT Not that isolated. NORMA Well, maybe not that isolated. Pretty isolated, though. DWIGHT Aw, there's plenty to do in Concrete if you kids would take a little initiative. When I was growing up we didn't have T.V. -- we used our imaginations. We read the classics. We played musical instruments. You show me a bored kid, I'll show you a lazy kid. CAROLINE I didn't know you played an instrument, Dwight. What do you play? DWIGHT 
29.		35   CONTINUED:                                                 35 SKIPPER There isn't one. We go to Chinook. NORMA Chinook High. DWIGHT It's a few miles downriver. SKIPPER Forty miles. DWIGHT Come off it -- it's not that far.
skipper		Yeah, I clocked it: thirty-nine miles. In spite of the fact that he's eager for this day to go well, Dwight's bottom teeth begin to show. DWIGHT Ah, you'd bellyache if the goddam school was in your fugging back yard. Just shut your god- damn pie-hole. They all shut their pie-holes. The six walk in a tense, uncomfortable silence for five full beats. Then Pearl tries to help out: PEARL I'm in fifth grade.
30.		36   CONTINUED:                                              36 DWIGHT 'Turkey shoot' is just a figure of speech. TOBY There's no real turkey? DWIGHT No, it's just regulation paper targets. It's a test of skill.  And, Jack, I just found out yesterday that they won't let kids shoot.
toby		But you said I could! DWIGHT I know, but they got it all screwed up somehow and told me wrong at first. Toby starts to argue, but Caroline touches his arm. CAROLINE Dwight, you did tell him. DWIGHT  I don't make the rules, Caroline. If I made the rules, I might make different ones, but I don't make the rules.
31.		37   CONTINUED:                                             37 CAROLINE Well, that sign says this is an N.R.A. club, and I'm a dues-paying N.R.A. member. That gives me the right to participate in the activities of other chapters. MAN You'll be the only woman shooting. Caroline just smiles. The Man shrugs, takes her money and writes down her name.
32.		38   CONTINUED:                                                    38 On the scoreboard, we see that Caroline is in second place and by only two shots. As the next-to-last round finishes, Caroline is surrounded by a few people who are complimenting her shooting. Dwight's smile is even bigger: Oh, he wanted to be the one to win. The last round starts. A MAN, evidently the one in first place, heads to the shooting alley for his turn. As he passes Caroline, trying to rattle her, he speaks confidently. MAN That second-place trophy ain't bad, honey.
33.		38   CONTINUED:                                                 38 CAROLINE I'm a little behind in my dues -- Thirty-six years behind.
34.		41    CONTINUED:                                          41 Toby and Caroline glance at each other and smile.
35.		42   INT. BOYS' BATHROOM AT SCHOOL - DAY                           42 Toby, Terry Silver and Terry Taylor lounge against the wall, smoking. TOBY I mean I blew it off, man -- I blew his fuckin' turkey's head off. Terry Silver takes a long slow drag on his cigarette. The other boys glance at each other: they don't buy it. TERRY TAYLOR With a .22. TOBY Fuckin' A.    Winchester .22.   Pump. TERRY TAYLOR Wolff, you are so full of shit. TOBY Don't believe me -- see if I care. TERRY TAYLOR All a .22 bullet would do is make a hole in his head. Toby takes a drag on his cigarette. TOBY One bullet, maybe. TERRY TAYLOR Oh. Oh, I see -- you hit the turkey more than once. While he was flying. In the head.
36.		43   CONTINUED:                                             43 The car rolls silently down the hill. It CRASHES into another car at the bottom, making a LOUD NOISE. The three boys run like the wind out of sight.
37.		45   CONTINUED:                                                  45 MR. SHIPPY He wrote obscene words on the wall. CAROLINE  He wrote obscene words on the wall.
caroline		What obscene words? MR. SHIPPY 
38.		45    CONTINUED:    ... a Nash Ambassador. Caroline gives a bark of laughter. She brings out a handkerchief and coughs, as if she has a cold. Mr. Shippy looks puzzled.
toby		What do you mean? CAROLINE Ever since Duke and I got divorced, you're a different boy. I know he never calls you and I could kill him for it -- but that's how Duke is. And Gregory's in Princeton now, so I guess... 
39.		46A   CONTINUED:                                                    46A TOBY No I don'... CAROLINE Yes, you do. You steal from Marian's purse -- I just can't handle you anymore, and it scares me. I don't know what to do. So, you tell me what to do. TOBY 
40.		46A   CONTINUED:                                                46A The two stare at each other. CAROLINE I can't think of anything else to do. But first I want your approval. Again the two stare at each other. TOBY All right. Caroline nods, turns away.
41.		49   INT. BUICK - NIGHT                                              49 Dwight    takes a pull from a pint bottle of whiskey and gives    Toby a sneering, contemptuous look. Toby reaches over,    SNAPS ON the RADIO. Immediately Dwight SNAPS IT off.     Then, in the headlight's glare, Toby sees a dark shape. TOBY Hey, look:   is that a raccoon or a beaver. Dwight swerves deliberately to hit the animal. There is a sickening THUMP, and Dwight stops. As he backs up: DWIGHT Go get it -- the pelt's worth fifty bucks, minimum. TOBY That thing's probably got rabies... DWIGHT  Get it!
42.		51   CONTINUED:                                                    51 DWIGHT That's what I hear. I hear you're a real hotshot. Come and go where you please, do what you please. Isn't that right? Yeah, regular man about town. Performer, too. That right, Jack? You a performer? TOBY No, sir. DWIGHT That's a goddamned lie. Dwight keeps glancing from the road to Toby, and back again. DWIGHT If there's one thing I can't stomach, it's a liar. TOBY I'm not a liar. DWIGHT Sure you are. You or Marian. Is Marian a liar? She says you're quite the little performer. Is that a lie? You tell me that's a lie and we'll drive back to Seattle so you can call her a liar to her face. You want me to do that? TOBY No.
dwight		Then you must be the one's a liar, right? 
43.		51   CONTINUED:    You're in for a whole 'nother ballgame.
44.		52   CONTINUED:                                                     52 DWIGHT I know you think you're better than me. Caroline told me all about your rich daddy and your prep-school brother, but your fancy days are over: you're a Concrete boy now. I'm gonna give you a big injection of Concrete. That's right -- inoculate you. Oh, my, yes. You're gonna find out that in Concrete we have to be able to do more than sing Fats Domino songs, we work... Skipper and Pearl bring the tub with four blue stars painted on its side, Dwight plops the skinned beaver into the water. The hairless carcass stands in the tub, its chin on the edge. Pearl shudders and turns away.
45.		53   CONTINUED:                                                   53 DWIGHT So here's what I think: I think idle hands are the devil's workshop, and so I found our Jack a little something to do.  I picked up two barrels of horse- chestnuts in the park. You can spend your evenings hulling 'em. And I enrolled you in the Boy Scouts, and you've got a paper route, starting Monday, every afternoon from three to six-thirty -- pays fifty-five bucks a month. What d'you say?
46.		54   CONTINUED:                                                        54 MISS GRAHAM Well, closer, maybe. But no. There is a pause.     Finally, Toby raises his hand. MISS GRAHAM Jack? TOBY It's angry, sort of bitter. MISS GRAHAM Very good, Jack. Bull's-eye. From the front of    the room, a tall,   thin, effeminate boy, ARTHUR GAYLE,    turns to look at   Toby and holds the gaze for three    full beats, then   turns around and faces the front.     What the hell does   it mean?
47.		55   CONTINUED:                                                    55 DWIGHT  And your rich Daddy Warbucks and your Princeton brother don't give a shit about you, 'cause Caroline told me they haven't even written in over two years. So it looks like I'm all you got now -- it's just you and me. Feels sort of inevitable, doesn't it, hotshot? It's like we were fated for each other, like I'm the one guy on Earth could set you straight. And don't you ever think I won't enjoy doing it, 'cause...
48.		55   CONTINUED:   
49.		55   CONTINUED:    Skipper is asleep in his bed. Across the 55 room, Toby lies with his portable RADIO against his head. We hear, very, very softly, ROSEMARY CLOONEY crooning "Hey, There." He's tired. He's lonely. He's miserable. DISSOLVE TO:
pearl		That's no fair. You make me sick. I don't know why you have to live here, anyway. Daddy says we should think of it like you were a charity kid. Toby takes out his comb, combs his hair a bit, then holds it out to Pearl, an exaggerated look of innocence on his face. TOBY Wanna comb your hair, Pearl? Pearl covers her bald spot with one hand. TOBY Probably you do, since you've got such pretty hair.  I know if I had hair as pretty as yours, Pearl, I'd comb it all the time.
50.		57   INT. DWIGHT'S KITCHEN - LATER                                 57 Dwight, Toby, Skipper, Norma, and Pearl are enjoying the snowcream. DWIGHT ... heard there was a fresh snow this morning, so I drove up to the mountains. I stopped in a field where it was all clean. I was finished packing it up high when somebody said...  You're ugly as a madman's ass. PEARL No, you are.
skipper		What'd you say to the ugly woman? DWIGHT I didn't say nothin' -- I ran. Everybody laughs again.    They eat in silence for a beat. DWIGHT I'm gonna get you a Scout uniform, Jack. TOBY 
51.		57   CONTINUED:                                               57 PEARL Can I join the Girl Scouts? DWIGHT I'm getting one for me, too. Don't believe in doing anything halfway. If you're serious about the Scouts...  ... then I want you to do it right. We'll do it right together. Dwight takes out a magazine entitled Boy's Life.    He hands it to Toby.
dwight		I got you a subscription to this. I'll take the price out of your paper route money. TOBY Boy's Life? DWIGHT It's the official Scout magazine. Tells about what it means to be a Scout, what kind of boy you need to be, and, oh, about merit badges and stuff like that. Toby opens the book at random, reads from it. TOBY 'Suggested good turns a Scout can do: assist a foreign  boy with some English grammar.  Help put out a burning field.  Give water to a crippled dog.'  I could do those. DWIGHT Hell, yes, you could. You're a bright kid. I want this Scout thing done right, okay? Toby nods, enthusiastic, happy.
52.		58   CONTINUED:                                             58 The shirt-sleeves have been shortened but the shoulders extend two inches beyond the ends of his shoulders. The pants legs have been cut off and hemmed but the crotch of the trousers hangs down three inches too low, giving him a stumpy, dwarfish look. Toby yells to someone O.S. TOBY I'm not going. DWIGHT  You're gonna shit and fall back in it -- that's all you're gonna do. Now get out here.
toby		I look like an idiot. DWIGHT You act like an idiot, you look fine. TOBY You said you'd get me a new uniform. DWIGHT I said I'd try to get you a new uniform. Beside, this one is new -- new to you. 
53.		59   CONTINUED:                                           59 TOBY But look at the sleeves and how it hangs down between my legs! DWIGHT Oh piss and moan -- all you can do is piss and moan. TOBY Yeah, piss and moan -- I notice you're all jazzed up in new stuff. DWIGHT They didn't have second-hand uniforms in my size.
toby		Oh, yeah, pull the other leg, it's got bells on it! Toby throws himself down on the sofa. DWIGHT And what're you gonna tell Caroline this weekend? You gonna say you wouldn't join the Scouts because... him didn't wike his widdle uniform? Dwight picks up the copy of Boy's Life and thumbs through it, He reads: DWIGHT 'No boy given over to dissipation or negativity can stand the gaff. He quickly tires and gives up. He is the type who usually lacks courage at the crucial moment. He cannot take punishment and come back smiling.' Dwight looks at Toby expectantly.   Toby hesitates, then gives up. TOBY All right, but this stinks. Toby walks outside.   Dwight follows. DWIGHT Hotshot, you don't know it yet, but me and Concrete are in your blood. We're going to make a man of you yet -- and in years to come you'll thank me. You'll remember me. Me and Concrete.
54.		60   EXT. CAROLINE'S HOUSE - DAY                                   60 Dwight's Buick pulls up and Caroline bursts out the front door. She runs to the car and hugs Toby. CAROLINE Oh, I missed you! TOBY Me, too. CAROLINE You look good.     How are you? TOBY I'm okay.    I'm fine.
55.		61   CONTINUED:                                              61 DWIGHT  ... and we had snowcream one night, and, oh, just lots of stuff. Caroline glances at Toby, then at Dwight, then back again.
56.		62   CONTINUED:                                               62 TOBY I'm fine. CAROLINE You swear?   You act odd. TOBY No, I'm fine. CAROLINE Well, good. I'd feel awful if it hadn't worked out. A pause.
caroline		I told Dwight I'd marry him. In two weeks. I don't know what else to do. I mean, he's been helping me with the rent since Kathy left. And you need a father. I think it's the best thing all the way around -- what d'you think? There is a pause as they look at each other. TOBY I think it's the best thing. CAROLINE I think it's the best thing, too. Caroline smiles, smooths his hair, then goes into the house. Toby continues to walk. Suddenly, he spins around and tears out toward the house. By God, he'll tell her just what's been going on. He bangs through the front door and up the stairs.
57.		64    CONTINUED:                                            64 TOBY Hungry. He makes another sign. TOBY Food. He makes another sign. TOBY Want. He makes another sign.
toby		Great mystery. He makes another sign. TOBY Father. He stares silently at himself in the mirror.
58.		A65   CONTINUED:                                               A65 TOBY It's so white. DWIGHT I got a good deal on this paint.  It'll darken up when it dries.
59.		65   CONTINUED:      INT. LIVING ROOM - NEXT MORNING                        65 Everywhere we look is white, the walls, ceiling, furniture -- all of it. Only the old Baldwin upright piano has escaped painting. Dwight eyes it suspiciously. DWIGHT Sort of stands out, doesn't it?
toby		Yeah, you could say that. 65   G)   SAME SCENE - LATER                                     65 They paint the Baldwin white. Dwight hesitates, then starts to paint the foot pedals. 65   H)   SAME SCENE - LATER                                     65 Dwight's face tells us that something still doesn't suit him. He glances at Toby, Toby nods, and they converge on the piano. 65   J)   SAME SCENE - LATER                                     65 Very carefully, Dwight and Toby finish painting the dark ivory keys to match the rest of the room. ELVIS SCREAMS OUT the last line, "You can do anything, but stay off of my blue suede shoes!"
60.		67   CONTINUED:                                                67 CAROLINE Oh! Oh, I'm so sorry... don't know what's the matter with me... you're right... it does look clean... But she can't stop laughing.    Her laughter has just a tinge of hysteria.
61.		69   CONTINUED:                                             69 Dwight continues to stroke Caroline, his hands everywhere, but now she is unresponsive. CAROLINE You mean you don't like to make love face to face? DWIGHT  No, I don't like it. I can't handle it -- I don't like to see the face. CAROLINE You mean ever?
jimmy		What a homo. TOBY He sure walks like a girl. JIMMY And runs like one and talks like one and throws like one. Probably takes a pee like one too -- just squats right down. TOBY He smarted off to me the other day -- told me I was a bourgeois. JIMMY What the frig's a bourgeois? 
63.		71   CONTINUED:                                          71 OSCAR 
64.		71   CONTINUED:                                                71 Without warning, Arthur swings a fist at Toby, catching him on the ear. Arthur's second blow hits him in the back of the head. The fight is on. Arthur throws   punches sidearm, with lots of wrist action, but there are   so many of them. Before Toby can react, Arthur has hit   him four times, including one wild haymaker that puts Toby   on his knees. While Toby's still on his knees, Arthur tries to kick him in the stomach. The kick is deadened by the papers in Toby's bag, Arthur bends over Toby, screaming as if he has lost his mind:
arthur		GET UP! GET UP, YOU SON OF A BITCHING MAGGOT GAGGER! I'LL STOMP YOUR GUTS OUT! I'LL KILL YOU! Toby gets up, and again Arthur sails in with those wild roundhouse swings. Then Toby gets in a solid punch to Arthur's face that rocks the bigger boy back on his heels. Arthur grabs his head and roars like a wounded buffalo. Almost immediately Arthur's eye puffs and begins to swell shut. Snot streaming from both nostrils, still roaring, Arthur flies at Toby again. Toby closes with him, to hold those flailing arms still, and the two stagger around the street like drunken dancers. They separate, exchange a few blows, then grapple with each other again. Then Arthur hooks Toby's leg, trips him, and the two roll off the shoulder of the road and down an embankment. They hit the muddy bottom of the gully still hitting, flailing, kicking -- first Toby is on top, then Arthur, then Toby, then Arthur. By now they are panting, each breath is a heave, a gasp. Then, suddenly, Arthur gives out completely -- he falls on top of Toby, pressing him deeper into the mud. With his last bit of strength Toby throws the bigger boy off him and sits up, while PEPPER BARKS FURIOUSLY at him and threatens to nip his leg. Toby staggers to his feet and starts to climb the gully. He looks relieved -- at least it's over. No, it's not. From behind him he hears three words. ARTHUR Take it back. 
65.		71   CONTINUED:                                                   71 Toby turns   to see a bloody-faced, swollen-eyed Arthur clambering   up the hill after him, like some monster that won't   die. Both boys reach the top and stand facing one   another. ARTHUR Take it back. Arthur's words are not angry anymore.    Toby's worn out too... TOBY Okay. ARTHUR Say it. TOBY Okay.   I take it back. ARTHUR No, say 'You're not a sissy.' Toby glances at Oscar and Jimmy. Their faces are gleeful but he doesn't care what the hell they think. TOBY You're not a sissy. Arthur immediately turns and walks away, but Toby ignores them and walks away in the opposite direction, delivering his hated newspapers.
66.		72   CONTINUED:                                             72 CAROLINE  ... seems like this place is so ugly. Seems like everywhere I look there's something... ugly.
67.		73   CONTINUED:                                              73 Dwight sits down next to Toby, eager for details. DWIGHT How'd it start? TOBY I called him a sissy. Dwight hoots with laughter and slaps his leg. DWIGHT Well, he sure's hell can't sue you for slander. That boy fights for the pink team. Did you make him cry?
toby		Well... he was just ready to. I called him a big-assed, squat- to-pee sissy.  He dry-gulched you. Now that's your fault. You gotta keep your guard up. There's no excuse for getting dry-gulched. I'll show you a couple moves after supper that'll leave Miss Arthur Gayle wondering what month it is.
68.		74   CONTINUED:                                             74 DWIGHT  So it was real hot out, okay? And there were these horse turds laying all over the place. I picked one up and went up to him, but not acting tough, okay? Acting more like, 'Oh gee, I'm so scared, please don't hurt me.' Sort of like this: Dwight slumps his shoulders, drops his chin, and looks up through his eyebrows, a simpering expression on his face. DWIGHT So I say, 'Excuse me, but what's the problem?' And he starts in on me again, blah, blah, blah, and I jam a horse turd right into that big mouth. Then I give him a sucker punch in the breadbasket, and he goes down like a... Dwight goes on, relishing the story.
69.		76   CONTINUED:                                              76 CAROLINE ... not good, to tell you the truth not good at all.  The thing is, he's out on the porch teaching Jack to box right now. I keep thinking if I can hang on, things'll settle down. If I can just hang on long enough, it'll work out and my kid'll have a father. You know?
toby		You said you'd show me how to dry-gulch somebody. DWIGHT Okay. Now you can always  kick somebody in the balls, but I like this one better: What you  do is hit 'em in the throat with the side of your forearm. You  wait 'til -- hah! Without warning, Dwight lunges at Toby and swings the side of his arm toward Toby's throat. Toby dodges wildly, falling backward over a box of sports equipment. 
70.		77   CONTINUED:                                              77 DWIGHT Now that's dry-gulching. Hit 'em in the throat, but do it before they're expecting it. Now you try. TOBY I'm afraid I'll hurt you. DWIGHT You won't. TOBY But I might. Finally Toby gives a half-hearted "Hah!" and swings the side of his forearm toward Dwight's throat. Dwight catches the arm easily. DWIGHT Come onnn.   You're not trying. Again Toby hesitates, again he says "Hah!" and gives a lukewarm swing at Dwight's throat. DWIGHT Well, don't go all shy and delicate on me -- you're as sissy as little Miss Arthur Gayle. Yeah -- I'll just call you 'Little Miss Jackie Wolff.' Ooh, my, yes -- Hello, Jackie. Toby's eyes flare up, then he lowers his head, biting his lip, sniffling a bit. DWIGHT Aw, Jesus Christ, if you're gonna --
71.		78    CONTINUED:                                          78 CAROLINE I know you may think this is silly, Dwight, but it seems like... I don't know, like an emblem or something. I want to be able to see your face when we make love. How else can we be cl -- The rest of the word is jerked out of her as Dwight turns her onto her side, away from him, and proceeds to make love again in his favorite manner. DWIGHT You just don't know what's good, Sugar. You're too tense. You just relax and Dwight'll take you on a little trip. Okay? You'll have a good time. Caroline closes her eyes.
72.		79   INT. DWIGHT AND CAROLINE'S LIVING ROOM - MUCH LATER           79 Smoking a cigarette and wearing a nightgown, Caroline walks to the front door. She opens the front door and stands looking out. Then she puts her finger on the door and slowly pushes it shut with one finger. She does this once more. Then she does it again. She turns, walks toward Toby's room.
73.		82   CONTINUED:                                              82 CAROLINE You remind me of a baby bird -- you know those frantic little things with their mouths wide open, wanting, wanting. TOBY Well, at least ask him about my gym shoes again. I can practice barefoot but for games I gotta have shoes. CAROLINE I'm not a referee. I won't do it.
toby		Oh, we know, we know: the bride won't argue. The bride won't raise her voice. CAROLINE Well, I'll tell you what    the bride will do: the bride will     get up and walk over there and    slap hell out of the bride's son.     Now does the bride's son want his    face slapped? TOBY Oh, I hate it here! I wish we could just get up and go. CAROLINE I don't have another 'get up and go' left in me! You understand? I'm telling you I've hit a god- damn wall. I can't run anymore. Now this whole thing isn't perfect for me, either... let me impress that on you real strong, okay? I don't wake up singing every morning. But I'm going to make this marriage work -- I won't join in any fights, you got that? I won't even raise my voice! Caroline points to the sink. CAROLINE See those two roses? He picked them for me on his way home last night. 
74.		82   CONTINUED:    Seriously: you have to concentrate on the good stuff. Caroline turns her attention back to the curtains.
75.		83   CONTINUED:                                              83 Faster and faster -- Caroline's heel catches an end table and sends it spinning and faster they go. Caroline's head is thrown back; she's laughing with pleasure. As the MUSIC reaches its CLIMAX, Dwight spins Caroline back to the sofa, lets her go, and WHAM! she lands back where she was seated exactly on the last note of the song. Amid the general laughter and applause, Caroline smiles at Toby. CAROLINE  Try to find the good stuff, honey.
76.		84   CONTINUED:                                             84 TOBY So what? DWIGHT So that makes you a hog. I just wanted to establish that fact, and now I have. Caroline and Skipper enter, carrying throw pillows and materials. DWIGHT  Oh, Dad! Skipper leaves the room. Caroline sits down, begins to try various materials as coverings for the pillows.
77.		84   CONTINUED:   
78.		84   CONTINUED:                                                     84 DWIGHT I, well, no, it's not that -- I just want you to be well-behaved. Your rich daddy 'Duke' doesn't care anything about you, and so somebody's got to train you, and one of the things you've gotta be trained about is not to be a hog and eat everybody's candy like a -- Dwight stops short as Caroline says one word. CAROLINE Oh.
79.		85    INT. SCOUT MEETING - NIGHT                                  85 Father and son photographs are being taken. Dwight is the only father who wears a complete uniform and cap. When Dwight and Toby's turn comes, Dwight puts on a big smile and throws an arm around Toby's shoulder. DWIGHT Check for the tongue tonight -- you forgot it last week. Otherwise you won't get your life-saving badge.
80.		86   CONTINUED:                                              86 ARTHUR Smart, too -- he can talk. TOBY  Sure -- I just about believe you. ARTHUR Hey, Pepper -- what's on a tree? As PEPPER BARKS TWICE: ARTHUR Bark! Way to go, Pepper -- pretty smart. Oh, I was wondering, Pepper -- I wanted to ask you something: how's the world treating you? As PEPPER BARKS ONCE: ARTHUR Rough!   Yeah, I know what you mean. TOBY That's dumb. A little funny, though. How come your dad never comes to meetings with you? ARTHUR I don't have a dad. Never did. I sprang full-blown from my mother's forehead. You want to walk home with me and Pepper?
toby		Sure -- compared to a ride home with Dwight, it'll be like heaven on a June day.
81.		87   CONTINUED:                                              87 ARTHUR  Every day of my life feels like a mile on the Bataan Death March.
82.		87   CONTINUED:    Maybe, maybe, but no matter how many times I have to repeat: my primary goal's to get out of Concrete. TOBY Burma-Shave! Arthur and Toby laugh.   As they walk on, though, Toby's face is thoughtful.
83.		91   CONTINUED:                                              91 DWIGHT Yours. TOBY Mine? DWIGHT You said you wanted a dog. TOBY A collie, though. Not this one. DWIGHT Well, he's yours. You paid for him. Go get ready for Norma's play.
toby		What d'you mean I paid for him? But Dwight doesn't answer.   Toby waits, then shrugs and leaves the room.
84.		93   CONTINUED:                                                  93 DWIGHT Well, want in one hand and shit in the other -- see which gets full first. TOBY But, Dwight, that Winchester was mine. DWIGHT And Champ's   your dog.     Jesus, I trade some   old piece of    crap for a valuable   hunting dog,    and all you can do   is piss and    moan.
toby		I'm not pissing and moaning. DWIGHT The hell you aren't. You can just make your own deals from now on.
85.		95   CONTINUED:                                              95 CAROLINE  Get his rifle back. DWIGHT But that dog's a champion! Caroline calmly SMASHES another PLATE on the countertop. CAROLINE Get his rifle back. DWIGHT Am I supposed to go clear to Seattle just to get...
86.		96   CONTINUED:                                              96 CAROLINE 'Course, having seen that dog, I wouldn't suggest you hang by your thumbs 'til those papers come. I mean, that dog is ugly. Toby gives her a dirty look, but Caroline's smile makes Toby grin. CAROLINE That's nice -- I haven't seen a real smile out of you in a month. TOBY Oh, Mom, can't we leave here? I hate it so much. You don't like it either -- all you do is stick your head in a sewing machine night and day. Let's just leave and start over someplace else. CAROLINE 'Start over.' Do you know how many times I've started over, sweetheart? I don't want to do it anymore. This is as far as I want to go. This place. I have to make this work somehow. We do. You're fourteen now -- you have to help me. TOBY But if... CAROLINE But me no buts, honey. I told you: I've hit a wall. And besides, it's not so bad here, if you just try to -- TOBY If you say 'look for the good stuff,' I'm gonna get Dwight's 30/30 and shoot myself! CAROLINE Seriously, though: give the place a chance. Give him a chance. TOBY Great. Just great. What a life: I gotta live with Dwight... I got a sissy for a new best friend... 
87.		96   CONTINUED:    I got no rifle... I got no gym shoes... CAROLINE Well, look on the bright side... You got a dog. In spite of his disappointment over the rifle, in spite of all that Caroline had said about staying with Dwight, Toby is happy to see Caroline completely back to her old self again, joking with him. He grins and, with the palm of his hand, he gives her shoulder a gentle shove. She returns the gesture. And the two of them sit on the steps, staring into the twilight.
91.		107A   CONTINUED:                                                  107A DWIGHT Your mother said you were sick. Feeling better? TOBY Yeah, I am. DWIGHT Good, good.    Get some sleep, did you? TOBY Yeah, I slept about four hours. DWIGHT Must've needed it. A pause: DWIGHT Oh, by the way, you didn't happen to hear a funny pinging noise in the engine, did you? TOBY What engine? DWIGHT I was downtown with Champ a few minutes ago, and I met a guy who recognized him. Said he'd seen my dog this very morning. Told me an interesting story of how he and the dog happened to meet. What d'you think about that?
toby		I don't know what you -- Suddenly Dwight is across the floor and onto the bed. He straddles Toby and slaps him across the face with the left hand then the right, again and again. Toby holds a forearm protectively across his face. Dwight holds both Toby's hands with one of his and, slaps the boy's face again and again. Finally Toby manages to get his right hand loose.      He slams his forearm across Dwight's throat. Dwight rears back, choking and gagging. Toby throws off the covers and tries to run. Still choking, Dwight grabs the back of Toby's hair and forces the boy's face down against the mattress. 
92.		107A   CONTINUED:                                                  107A Then he doubles up his fist and slams it into the back of Toby's neck. Toby goes rigid with pain. Dwight stumbles up gasping for breath. DWIGHT Only me. On this whole earth, to straighten you out. And I will do it kill or cure. Now get your ass up -- you're going to school.
93.		109   CONTINUED:                                              109 ... The Apartment, and a five foot poster that says, "ELECT JOHN KENNEDY, 1960." In the back seat, Psycho pours vodka into a half empty can of Hawaiian punch, then takes a huge swig. PSYCHO  Oh, look -- there goes Carol Baumgarten. Ain't she sweet? She's hot for Wolff. TOBY I wish. CHUCK Won't do her any good, though -- Jack's saving himself for Rhea Clark. TOBY Knock it off. JERRY You know what he said about Rhea? Said even the inside of her arm turned him on. You slay me, Wolff. She is pretty though.
94.		109   CONTINUED:                                                 109 There is a pause while all the boys dwell on this thought. It sounds good to them. PSYCHO Aghhh, pussy!
95.		112   CONTINUED:                                              112 DWIGHT  Here I am, you lucky people! Toby and Caroline exchange a glance.     It speaks volumes. 113   INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT                                          113 Dwight, Caroline, Toby and Pearl sit at the table, eat- ing. Champ sits by Dwight's chair -- obviously his dog. Dwight seems unchanged by the two years. Just now, Dwight is in the middle of telling another of his "Dwight Is The Best" stories. From the bored faces around the table, this is another in a long series.
dwight		... So the S.O.B. had been on my back for a week at work, okay? Sayin' I stole his wrench, an' poured oil all over his tools, as if! Anyway, he went just one step too far with old Dwight, okay? Spat on the floor as I walked by. I turned around and walked back to him, acting so dainty and humble and scared, you know, all innocent -- and the minute he took his eyes off me, BLAM, I dry gulched him! I shut his water off good! Never gave me another second's grief to this very day. There is a pause.   One more story.   Nobody has much of a reaction.
caroline		I heard Kennedy on the news again tonight -- I don't know: I hate the Democrats and the Republicans, but then once in a while somebody comes along who doesn't seem like... 
96.		113   CONTINUED:                                            113 CAROLINE  I'm going to work for his campaign. DWIGHT No. Too many Republicans   in this town. They hear my wife's   working for the Democrats, they'll  take their cars someplace else  to be fixed. Bad idea. No.
97.		114   CONTINUED:                                               114 AL CAPONE  Why don't you take a little ride with Frank? The man's eyes bulge with fear, and he cries, "No!    No!" as two men escort him out the door. In the next shot we see a long black car parked on a country road, and we hear a SHOT.
toby		I'll be through in a minute. Dwight looks around. DWIGHT You left the lid off the damn toothpaste again. TOBY 
98.		115   CONTINUED:                                              115 DWIGHT Come on. Oh, come on.     Give me an excuse. Toby hesitates, then leaves the bathroom, humiliated.
99.		118   CONTINUED:                                              118 It's a good imitation of Psycho, and Toby laughs. TOBY He hears you do that, you're dead. Hey, lemme copy your math homework. ARTHUR No, but I'll show you how to work the problems. TOBY I tell you I'm thirsty, you offer me a sandwich thank you and fuck you.
arthur		Oh, Jack. TOBY Oh, Jaaack! ARTHUR I take it back you don't act like Psycho, you act like Dwight. TOBY  I know it. He's winning. I do act like him. I feel like him sometimes. I've gotta get out of this place or I'm a dead one. ARTHUR I know, but you've said that for two years.
toby		I mean it. I may go live with my brother Gregory in Princeton. ARTHUR You mean the brother Gregory in Princeton who never calls you? That brother Gregory? TOBY He wrote me. ARTHUR And he asked you to live with him? 
100.		118   CONTINUED:                                               118 TOBY No. But I'm going. Or maybe I could go to a prep school like Gregory did. Like my dad did. ARTHUR What about your grades? And what would you use for money? TOBY I don't know. Dwight owes me over twelve hundred bucks! If I hadn't let him keep my paper route money, I'd be okay.
arthur		If the dog hadn't stopped to pee, he'd have caught the rabbit. Suddenly Toby is angry.   He stands up, moves to another seat. TOBY I think Dwight was right about you I think you fight for the pink team. Toby falls into another seat, then, pulls his head back and bangs it against the window. Then does it again, harder.
101.		120   CONTINUED:                                                  120 ARCH Nobody in your family ever even been in a Corvette, let alone owned one. CHUCK You wait and see if I don't get one. I'm gonna move down to Seattle, get a job at Bendix and drive a 'Vette to work every day. JERRY My uncle can have any car he wants. He makes big bucks as an electrician.
arch		Yeah?   How big? JERRY Hundred seventy-five a week, take home. PSYCHO Bullshitter! JERRY Fuck you, it's true. CHUCK Even the supervisors at Bendix don't make that. JERRY So how are you ever gonna make enough to drive a 'Vette then, fuck-face? The others all laugh at Chuck. Toby has reached the group and stands on the lip of the large wooden platform that they are on and listens while leaning on a large hook. PSYCHO I'm gonna drive a T-bird, someday. CHUCK An' I'm gonna own a Corvette if I have to hold up the Bendix payroll to get it. JERRY Fuck you. 
102.		120   CONTINUED:    Welcome to Concreeee... Toby topples over and falls down a bank of rubble. The other burst out laughing and hooting. The CAMERA MOVES off them and CRANES DOWN to a spread-eagled Toby's face. The LAUGHTER ECHOES around the building. Toby begins to laugh, but it soon turns to bitter tears. DISSOLVE TO:
103.		122   INT. KENNEDY CAMPAIGN OFFICE - DAY                         122 Toby enters the small office where Caroline is running hundreds of flyers on a duplicating machine. Surprised she sees Toby's expression. CAROLINE What is it? TOBY I called Gregory at Princeton.  He's sending me applications for prep schools. I need you to take me to Seattle to take some entrance exams.
caroline		Would a prep school take you with, uh, your school record? TOBY I've got to get out of here, Mom. I've got to. I've got to get away. CAROLINE When are the tests? TOBY Saturday. CAROLINE You'll be there. TOBY He won't let you have the Buick.
caroline		You'll be there!
103a.		124A   SAME SCENE - LATER                                   124A All the boys are taking the test, working hard.
104.		126   INT. DWIGHT AND CAROLINE'S KITCHEN - EVENING                126 Dwight sits at the table, a drink in his hand. Caroline hurriedly prepares dinner. She tosses a milk carton into a brimming waste basket, then speaks to Toby, who enters the room. CAROLINE Take that trash out for me, honey. Toby grabs the trash and exits.
105.		128   CONTINUED:                                             128 DWIGHT Ooooooh, oh, I'm so scared.   Oooh.
106.		131   CONTINUED:                                                  131 TOBY You could leave too, you know. ARTHUR No, I've grown progressively fond of Concrete. I think I'll stay here all alone and dress up in my mama's old clothes sometimes -- like you said. Arthur turns and    swishes away. Toby pats   the manilla envelope, turns    back to the saw. Suddenly   he jerks, looks down, and    sees that the ring finger  of his left hand is spurting    blood. Toby says a mild,   astonished "Hey," and sinks    to his knees.
109.		140   CONTINUED:                                             140 PEARL I can't find where this green piece goes -- it's gotta be grass. Dwight sighs with irritation at the interruption of his listening pleasure, and turns UP the VOLUME on the record.
caroline		 Don't go off without eating. TOBY I'll get a sandwich after work.
toby		Hello? All right.     Tomorrow, then. Goodbye. Toby hangs up, turns to Caroline, quietly: TOBY It's Hill School -- the last one I applied to. They haven't accepted me, but they're sending somebody up to interview me. Caroline upsets the puzzle getting up to hug Toby.
110.		141   INT. DRUGSTORE - AFTERNOON                                  141 Toby is sitting in a booth with MR. HOWARD, a man in his late thirties. Toby has made a real attempt to look good.    His hair is modified, and he wears a tie and a suit. TOBY ... Yeah, I enjoy my classes, especially the ones that are advanced, but I've been feeling a little restless lately. It's hard to explain. MR. HOWARD Well, you're probably bored. Not being challenged. Your application was very good, Toby, but we have many boys who want to go to Hill. Not everybody is comfortable at a prep school. TOBY I think I would be. My father and brother went to prep schools. MR. HOWARD Is that right?     Where? TOBY Deerfield and Choate. Mr. Howard is impressed. MR. HOWARD I see. Well, maybe you'd like it. Hill was difficult for me, though -- classes were hard, and the boys seemed cold -- interested in money and social position. 
111.		141   CONTINUED:                                              141 He stops    talking as we hear, O.S., "AG-H-H-H!" Psycho and Arch have    entered the drugstore. Toby's back is to the door, and    he slouches deeper into the booth, praying that he won't    be seen. Arch and Psycho buy cigarettes. ARCH ... so she said, 'No, I don't want you to do that,' and I said 'Oh, baby, let me get down and grovel on it.' I mean, I ate her pussy 'til my tongue was calloused, and then...
112.		142   CONTINUED:                                              142 DWIGHT  General Motors makes shit cars.
113.		144   CONTINUED:                                              144 PEARL He said they're gonna give you two thousand three hundred dollars a year and it costs two thousand five hundred dollars... so you gotta come up with the other two hundred. Great, huh?  I'm making hot dogs -- I'll make one for you. Can you put mustard on some bread for us? Toby gets a jar of mustard from a cupboard, but it's empty, so he tosses it on top of the trash can, gets a new jar and starts to open it.
114.		144   CONTINUED:                                              144 Dwight retrieves the bottle. There are a few streaks of mustard under the neck of the bottle. He holds it close to Toby's face. DWIGHT Empty?   That look empty to you? PEARL It looks empty to me. TOBY It looks empty to me, too. Dwight pushes the jar against Toby's eye, leaving mustard stains on the boy's face.
dwight		Look again, hotshot.    Is it empty? Toby jerks his head away, not answering. Dwight slams down the jar of mustard, grabs Toby by the back of the hair and forces his face down against the mustard jar. PEARL Dad! DWIGHT 
115.		144   CONTINUED:                                              144 DWIGHT Now.     Was it empty? Slowly he stands up and faces Dwight. TOBY Yes! Dwight slaps Toby across the mouth and the battle is on. As Pearl stands frozen, Toby lunges at Dwight, they grapple and stagger around the room. GLASS SHATTERS, the kitchen table CRASHES over, and their feet STAMP and SHUFFLE but Toby is a wild man. Even though he has only one good hand. He lands a blow between Dwight's eyes that bangs the man back against the wall.
116.		144   CONTINUED:   
117.		144   CONTINUED:                                               144 Caroline takes three full beats and then her face changes. She speaks wonderingly: CAROLINE I don't, do I? TOBY No, you don't. CAROLINE I could leave with you, couldn't I? TOBY Yes, you could!
dwight		What about me? CAROLINE I could just walk right out that door, couldn't I? TOBY Yes, you could! Caroline takes a deep breath, a weight has been lifted. CAROLINE My God... the lightness. DWIGHT What about me? CAROLINE I'm leaving, too.
dwight		No. CAROLINE Oh, Dwight, why do you want me to stay? You don't even like me, not really. DWIGHT You're not leaving! CAROLINE 
118.		144   CONTINUED:                                               144 Dwight makes a terrible noise of frustration and rage, doubles his fists, and starts toward Caroline. Immediately Toby grabs the baseball bat and holds it out, ready to strike, as the two begin to back toward the door. DWIGHT ... you two've always sided in against me, always thought you were better than me. I tried. I did the best I could. What about me? Am I supposed to just crawl off in a ditch someplace and die? I've always been the nigger. Everybody's nigger. Ever since I was little. Caroline and Toby are at the door, run across the yard and down the street. Dwight stands in the doorway, yelling: DWIGHT What about me? When is it ever Dwight's turn for some consideration? What about me? I'll tell you one thing -- you'll remember me!
toby		Man, oh man, oh man. CAROLINE Well, we're out. TOBY Great, isn't it? CAROLINE Yes. It's great. And you got the scholarship! Congratulations, honey. 
119.		145   CONTINUED:                                             145 TOBY Yeah, I'm out! I'm outta here! Maybe I'll crash and burn, but it's a chance, so I'm gone! I'm history, Histoire. Nobody's gonna tell me what to do now, nobody. I'm free as a bird. Sayonara nest.  Heaven on a June day! Caroline's smile becomes fixed during Toby's speech and she begins to regard him oddly.
caroline		 Yeah, heaven on a June day... TOBY What'd he say about you having a job in D.C.? CAROLINE Oh, Helen found me something in a real estate office, but... TOBY So now you can go! Oh. Oh! I am so damn glad to get out of this place! I'll be in 'fourth form.' Doesn't that sound great? And if you get a two-bedroom place in D.C., I can come for vacations and summers. I'm out. I'm out!
toby		She holds Toby at arm's length and studies him. CAROLINE My you've grown, haven't you. Then clutches him to her fiercely.   Smiling, the two walk on through the sunny afternoon, singing softly to each other.
120.		146   EXT. BUS STATION - DAY                                        146 Caroline and Toby stand next to a bus as the driver STARTS the ENGINE. She is close to tears. CAROLINE Are you sure you'll be all right? TOBY  I borrowed money from everybody I know -- it's the two hundred you need for the tuition, and an extra fifty. Buy yourself a blazer. Oh, God. I'll miss you. I'll write you. You sure your hand's okay? TOBY Get on the bus, Mom. Caroline puts her arms around Toby, kisses his cheek hard, then whispers something into his ear. When Toby speaks, his words are full of love: TOBY I know that, Mom. I've always known that. Caroline gets onto the bus, the DOORS CLOSE, WHOOSH and the bus pulls away. We see Caroline's face at a window. As the bus recedes, Toby turns and walks in another direction. His face is shining, incandescent with happiness. He breaks into a wide grin.
****Dialogues from script :Thor.txt****

jane		Hurry! We hear a loud BANG followed by muffled CURSING from below. Jane offers a hand down to ERIK SELVIG  who emerges as well, rubbing his head.
selvig		Thanks. So what's this "anomaly" of yours supposed to look like?
jane		It's a little different each time. Once it looked like, I don't know, melted stars, pooling in a corner of the sky. But last week it was a rolling rainbow ribbon--
jane		Hey, Darcy. Pass up the bubbly and my gloves, will you? Intern DARCY LEWIS  hands Jane a bottle of Champagne and a pair of gloves through the window. Jane passes it to Selvig to hold while she pulls on the old gloves -- too large and masculine for her small hands. He starts to unwrap the foil, and she stops his hand with an excited grin.
selvig		 I recognize those. Think how proud he'd be to see you now. Jane's grin fades to a sad smile.
jane		Thank you.
selvig		For what?
jane		The benefit of the doubt. The two stare out at the sky expectantly. A long beat while they scan the skies. Nothing. Jane's worried.
jane		 Sure, if you like rocking out to KFRM, "All agriculture, all the time." Worried, Jane heads back down into the vehicle.
jane		The anomalies are always precipitated by geomagnetic storms. She shows him a complicated CHART she's drawn in the book, tracking occurrences and patterns.
darcy		Jane? Jane SHUSHES her, leafs through her notes. The bottle of champagne begins to vibrate.
jane		There's got to be some new variable... Or an equipment malfunction... The lights and equipment in the SUV begin to FLICKER around them. The computer monitors SQUELCH with static.
darcy		I don't think there's anything wrong with your equipment... The champagne bottle starts to RATTLE noisily now as it shakes more violently. Jane and Selvig notice.
jane		What?!
darcy		I think you want to see this. Darcy points out the window. Jane and Selvig look out. Over the desert --
jane		Holy. Shatner.
selvig		That's your "subtle" aurora?!
jane		No-- yes! Let's go!
jane		Isn't this great?! A thought strikes her.
selvig		That's debateable. Put your seat belt on!
jane		You've gotta get us closer so I can take a magnetic reading. Darcy laughs.
darcy		Yeah, right! Good one!  Oh God, you're serious...
jane		You want those college credits or not?
darcy		Keep the credits. I'll intern at Burger King.
jane		What are you doing?!
darcy		Saving our lives! Jane grabs the wheel, jerks it hard the other way. They struggle for control, when the headlights fall on --
darcy		I think that was legally your fault.
jane		Get the first aid kit. Darcy heads back inside the SUV as Jane, concerned, kneels next to the man. Selvig hovers, protectively. She gently turns his head to the light, and we see him clearly for the first time. He is magnificently handsome, long blonde hair flowing around his classically sculpted features. She cups her hands around his face, as if willing the life back into him.
darcy		Wow. Does he need CPR? Because I know CPR. A flustered Jane smooths her hair and sits back on her heels. She looks up at Selvig. Back to being a scientist.
jane		--are dilating. That's a good sign.
selvig		We still have to get him to a hospital.
selvig		Immediately, Jane. Jane sighs and nods, regretfully watching the storm EVAPORATE above their heads. A thought strikes her.
jane		Where did he come from? They exchange puzzled looks, as we move up through the last glowing remnants of the storm, and into:
odin allfather		Stares out at his kingdom. The ravens fly up to the balcony, land at his side.
odin		Do you think he's ready?
frigga		He thinks he is. He has his father's confidence.
odin		He'll need his father's wisdom.
frigga		And his humility? Odin reacts.
odin		Yes, but Thor's still a boy. He could be a great King... Odin stops, notices HIS HAND SHAKING. It seems to be out of synch temporally with the rest of the world, leaving a trail as it moves. He stares at it determinedly, concentrating, trying to stop the strange event through the force of his sheer will.
frigga		For once, our son needs something we cannot provide.
odin		I can fight it a little longer...
frigga		No. You've put it off too long! I worry for you. He touches her cheek.
odin		I've destroyed demons and monsters, devastated whole worlds, laid waste to mighty kingdoms, and still you worry for me?
frigga		Always.
odin		Not today. Now come kiss your king... while I'm still king. He pulls her close, and they kiss.
thor		Another!
thor		Have you ever known me to be nervous?
loki		There was the time in Nornheim...
thor		That wasn't nerves, brother. It was the rage of battle. How else could I have fought my way through a hundred warriors and pulled us out alive? The Attendant approaches with another goblet of wine for Thor.
loki		As I recall, I was the one who veiled us in smoke to ease our escape.
thor		Some do battle, others just do tricks. The Attendant stifles a laugh. Loki notices, doesn't like it. He gestures towards the goblet in the Attendant's hand. EELS pour over the sides of the goblet, slithering out and across the terrified Attendant's hand. He SCREAMS, hurls the goblet to the ground. Loki chuckles.
loki		Just a bit of fun.  Right, my friend? The Attendant isn't so sure. Thor dons his EAGLE-WINGED
thor		You don't really want to start this again, do you, Cow?
loki		I was being sincere!
thor		You're incapable of sincerity.
loki		Am I? He looks his brother in the eye, all pretense lost.
thor		Thank you. The two brothers take in the moment a beat, then:
loki		Give us a kiss.
thor		Stop. Thor makes the final adjustments to his ceremonial wear.
loki		Like a king. They hear the blast of a CEREMONIAL HORN.
thor		You go ahead. Loki casts him a wary look.
fandral		Thank you, love. 
sif		 I'll miss you.
volstagg		I hope this goes quickly. I'm famished.
volstagg		Are you attached to that pretty face of yours? Because one more word, and you won't be.
fandral		 My, we are hungry, aren't we? The others laugh, save Hogun. Fandral turns to him.
sif		Fandral, is it true the famous Warriors Three are ready to meet any challenge?
fandral		Name it, Lady Sif.
sif		Keep your mouth shut.
frigga		It's all right to be nervous.
thor		Why does everyone keep saying that? I'm not nervous!
frigga		You may be able to fool the rest of
thor		...but never you. I know.
frigga		Thor, just remember that you have something even the great Allfather never had.
thor		And what is that?
frigga		Me for a mother. She smiles.
volstagg		 Where is he?
loki		He said he'd be along. Sif realizes the truth, shakes her head in disapproval.
volstagg		What?
sif		He wants to make an entrance.
fandral		Well, if he doesn't show up soon, he shouldn't bother. Odin looks like he's ready to feed him to his ravens.
loki		I wouldn't worry. Father will forgive him. He always does.
mjolnir		Roars up into the hall, Thor strides cockily into the hall behind it, catching it behind his back. The CROWD erupts in CHEERS. Thor spins his hammer with a flourish, holds it up before the crowd, basking in the moment, relishing the adoration, whipping his audience up into a frenzy.
sif		Oh, please. Odin watches from the front, not liking this showy display.
odin		Gungnir. Its aim is true, its power strong. With it I have defended Asgard and the lives of the innocent across the Nine Realms since the time of the Great Beginning. And though the day has come for a new King to wield his own weapon -- that duty remains the same. Thor Odinson, my heir, my first-born.
odin		Today I entrust you with the greatest honor in all the Nine Realms. The sacred throne of Asgard. I have sacrificed much to achieve peace. So, too, must a new generation sacrifice to maintain that peace. Responsibility, duty, honor. These are not merely virtues to which we must aspire. They are essential to every soldier and to every King. The Crowd and the Warriors Three start to shiver and rub their limbs for warmth in the increasingly cold air of the hall. Thor turns back to face his father. Odin looks upon his son with pride.
thor		I swear.
odin		Do you swear to preserve the peace?
thor		I swear.
odin		Do you swear to cast aside all selfish ambition and pledge yourself only to the good of all the Realms? Beat.
thor		I swear.
odin		Then on this day, I, Odin Allfather, proclaim you-- Odin hesitates, noticing a strange sight before him. ICE creeps across the surface of the large banners around the hall, making an eerie CRACKING sound. Thor, his comrades, and the crowd see it too.
sif		The Destroyer.
fandral		I've never been inside the Vault before. It's said the Tesseract was once held here.
sif		Shush! Odin surveys the destruction.
thor		The Jotuns must pay for what they've done!
odin		They have paid with their lives. The Destroyer did its job, and the Casket is safe. All is well.
thor		"All is well?!" They broke into the Weapons Vault! If the Frost Giants had stolen even one of these
odin		But they didn't.
thor		I want to know why they--
thor		And if you hadn't taken it from them they would have laid waste to all the Nine Realms!
odin		I have a truce with Laufey, the Jotun King.
thor		He just broke your truce! We must act! Odin turns to Sif and the Warriors Three.
odin		Leave us. Thor's comrades exit. Odin eyes Thor, as Loki watches.
thor		March into Jotunheim as you once did, teach them a lesson, break their spirits so they'll never dare try to cross our borders again!
odin		You're thinking only as a warrior!
thor		This was an act of war!
odin		It was the act of but a few, doomed to fail.
thor		They got this far!
odin		We will find the breach in our defenses. It will be found, and it will be sealed.
thor		As King of Asgard, I would--
odin		You are not King. Not yet. Thor sees in his father's face that he's pushed this as far as he can. He backs away, then leaves, pushing through the doors so hard that they SLAM backwards behind him. Odin watches him go.
sif		Redecorating, are we? Volstagg surveys the overturned tables and food, aghast.
volstagg		What's this -- ?!
hogun		I told you they'd cancel it.
fandral		We thought that was just you being your normal cheery self. Volstagg looks about the floor, despairing.
volstagg		All this food -- so innocent, cast to the ground. It breaks the heart! Thor strides away from them to the far end of the hall. Loki calmly moves towards him.
thor		It's unwise to be in my company right now, brother.
loki		Who said I was wise?
thor		 This was to be my day of triumph.
loki		It will come. In time.
thor		Yes, exactly!
loki		But there's nothing we can do without defying Father. Thor considers this, looks at his hammer, a gleam in his eye. Loki can guess what he's thinking, grows concerned.
thor		It's the only way to ensure the safety of our borders.
loki		It's madness!
volstagg		Madness? What sort of madness?
loki		Nothing! Thor was making a jest!
thor		The safety of our Realm is no jest. We're going to Jotunheim.
fandral		What?!
sif		Thor, of all the laws of Asgard, this is one you must not break. Loki looks on, intrigued by the proceedings.
fandral		This isn't like a journey to Earth, where you summon a little lightning and thunder and the mortals worship you as a god. This is Jotunheim.
volstagg		And if the Frost Giants don't kill you, your Father will!
thor		My father fought his way into Jotunheim, defeated their armies, and took their Casket! We'd just be looking for answers.
sif		It is forbidden! Thor sizes up his friends, smiles. He proceeds to make his case with enthusiasm and charismatic conviction.
thor		My friends, have you forgotten all that we've done together? He turns to Fandral.
fandral		You did.
thor		And who proved wrong all who scoffed at the idea that a young maiden could be one of the fiercest warriors this Realm has ever known?
sif		I did.
loki		What?
thor		You are coming with me...
loki		Yes, of course! I won't let my brother march into Jotunheim alone. I will be at his side.
volstagg		And I.
fandral		And I.
hogun		And I. The Warriors Three fight together.
sif		I fear we'll live to regret this.
volstagg		If we're lucky.
thor		We must first find a way to get past Heimdall.
volstagg		That will be no easy task. It's said the Gatekeeper can see a single dew drop fall from a blade of grass a thousand worlds away.
fandral		And he can hear a cricket passing gas in Niffelheim.
volstagg		Jest not! He heareth all!
fandral		Please. Getting past him should be simple enough now, since he seems to be letting Frost Giants sneak by under his nose. Volstagg, terrified, calls out to the sky.
volstagg		Forgive him! He meaneth no offense! Loki rejoins the group as Thor leads them onward.
loki		Keep your weapons sheathed and your mouths closed. This is going to take subtlety and sincerity, not brute strength. Leave it to me. Loki dismounts and steps forward.
heimdall		You're not dressed warmly enough. Thor, Loki, and the others trade looks.
loki		I'm sorry?
heimdall		The freezing cold of Jotunheim. It will kill you all in time, even Thor.
fandral		That was just a bit of a jest, really... Loki goes into damage control.
loki		You must be mistaken. We're not--
heimdall		For ages have I guarded Asgard and kept it safe from those who would do it harm. In all that time, never has an enemy slipped by my watch -- until this day. I wish to know how that happened.
thor		Then tell no one where we've gone until we've returned. Thor walks past Heimdall as the Gatekeeper lets the group pass. Volstagg walks beside the frustrated Loki, needles him.
volstagg		What happened? Your silver tongue turn to lead?
loki		Get me off this bridge before it cracks under your girth. Volstagg and Fandral share a laugh.
heimdall		Be warned. I will honor my sworn oath to protect this Realm as its Gatekeeper. If your return threatens the safety of Asgard, Bifrost will remain closed to you. You'll be left to die in the cold wastes of Jotunheim.
thor		I have no plans to die today.
heimdall		None do. Heimdall inserts his sword into the control panel, and the apparatus of the Observatory starts up.
heimdall		All is ready. You may pass.
volstagg		Couldn't you just leave the bridge open for us?
heimdall		To keep this bridge open would unleash the full power of the Bifrost and destroy Jotunheim with you upon it.
volstagg		Ah. Never mind, then. Thor starts towards the Bifrost, turns back to the others, grins.
thor		Come on. Don't be bashful. The others join him at his side, then step towards the Bifrost. Their bodies stretch towards the maelstrom, changing shape, as if every atom of their being is being elongated by the pull of it. In an instant, they're jerked off the platform and inside the vortex.
thor		Come on, big fella. Up...! With an effort, Thor pulls the burly warrior back onto the ice and, tremendously relieved, he proclaims:
volstagg		This belt! This belt is now my lucky belt! I will never remove it! Even when bathing!
fandral		You bathe? Thor and the others turn and stare out in horror and wonder at the frozen alien wasteland before them. The whole planet is a massive flattened ring of jagged ice, slowly breaking apart. Huge CHUNKS OF ICE calve away from its outer edges and float off into space. The planet's icy surface cracks and melts as far as the eye can see. The ruins of a Jotun city lies in the distance.
hogun		We shouldn't be here.
thor		Too late now.
fandral		Actually, it's not. We could turn right around, hop back to Asgard, share a mug by the fire. Could be nice. Thor ignore him, heads off. Loki looks around, anxious.
loki		Perhaps we should wait. Thor turns back to his brother.
thor		For what?
loki		To survey the enemy. To gauge their strengths and weaknesses from a distance.
volstagg		I'm liking that. Gauging, surveying. Particularly the distance part.
thor		We know all we must. It's time to act. Thor heads on. Reluctantly, the others follow.
sif		He's just got to swing his hammer...
thor		It feels good, doesn't it? To be together again, adventuring on another world?
fandral		Adventuring? Is that what we're doing?
thor		What would you call it?
fandral		Freezing.
volstagg		Starving.
sif		Whining.
thor		How about a song to lift our spirits? The others groan.
hogun		No, not that!
sif		Please don't make us sing again!
fandral		If I have to listen to Volstagg's singing voice one more time, I'll fall on my own sword!
sif		Well, now I'm on board. She and Thor share a grin. The party reaches the edge of the city -- its ancient structures of jade and ice melting and crumbling, ravaged by warfare long ago. A TEMPLE lies before them, across a central plaza.
thor		Hiding. As cowards always do. Thor leads the others onwards towards the central plaza. Loki reluctantly follows. They don't notice as SHADOWY FIGURES move in the shadows of the structures nearby.
jotun sentry		What is your business here, Asgardian? The Jotun's voice itself sounds like cracking ice.
thor		I speak only to your King. Not to his foot soldiers.
laufey		I am Laufey, King of this Realm.
thor		And I am--
laufey		We know who you are, Odinson. Why have you brought the stench of your blood into my world?
thor		I demand answers. Laufey stands, sizing up Thor, tries to piece this together.
laufey		You "demand?"
thor		How did your people get into Asgard?
laufey		The house of Odin is full of traitors. Sif and the Warriors Three exchange a puzzled look, disturbed by the Jotun King's words.
thor		Do not dishonor my father's name with your lies.
laufey		Your father is a murderer and a thief. He stole what was ours, and left our world in ruins. We have the right to reclaim the Casket.
thor		Not when you'd use it to make war against other Realms. Laufey laughs, cold, mocking.
laufey		And why have you come here? To make peace? You long for battle. You crave it. I see you for what you are, Thor Odinson. Nothing but a boy, trying to prove himself a man.
thor		This boy has grown tired of your mockery. Thor takes a step towards Laufey. The other Jotuns step in front of Thor, blocking his path. We finally see the Frost Giants now -- terrifying, blue-skinned, standing eight feet tall. Loki moves next to his brother and quietly implores him.
loki		Thor, stop and think. Look around you. We are outnumbered.
thor		Know your place, brother...
laufey		You should listen to his counsel. You know not what your actions would unleash. Laufey steps out of the shadows.
loki		We will accept your most gracious offer. The others look to Thor imploringly. Thor stares Laufey down a beat -- then relents. He turns to leave. His comrades breathe a sigh of relief and follow, when a Frost Giant nearby mutters under his breath.
jotun		Run back home, little princess. Thor stops in his tracks. Loki goes white. He knows what's coming.
loki		Damn. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjolnir, swings it, and KNOCKS the Jotun clear across the plaza. The Asgardians reluctantly draw their weapons, gather into a circle around Thor. Volstagg looks around at the angry Jotuns approaching them.
volstagg		Silly hammer! Has a mind of its own! ICE forms on the Jotuns' bodies, creating a FROZEN ARMOR around them, extending off the ends of their arms like SWORDS. One Giant does so directly in front of Fandral.
fandral		I'm hoping that's just decorative. Thor leaves the circle of Asgardians, swings at another Frost Giant. His comrades form another circle around him, separating him from the Jotuns, as he whirls his hammer around once and catches it with a cocky grin. He's enjoying this.
thor		Next! Fandral calls to Volstagg and Hogun.
fandral		Well? What move, do you think?
volstagg		I say we use "The Norn's Revenge."
fandral		At this close range? I think "The Alfheim Lunge" is a better move.
hogun		Shut up! Thor takes out yet another Frost Giant, then all hell breaks loose as the Asgardians and Jotuns begin to battle. A Jotun backs Hogun up against a wall of ice. As the Giant hurls an ice blade fist at him, the grim warrior swings his mace over his head, embedding it into the ice wall, and hoists himself up, dodging the Giant's blow and leaping over him. Hogun takes out a second approaching Frost Giant, spins back, dodges a swing from the first, then pounds the Jotun with his mace. Nearby, Sif expertly stabs one Jotun after another with her double-bladed staff. One knocks her viciously to the ground.
sif		If you don't treat me like a lady, I won't act like a lady! She takes out the Jotun. Loki backs away from an approaching Jotun, finds himself at the edge of a deep crevasse. The Giant sees he's vulnerable, swipes at him. But the Jotun's arm passes right through him. The Giant stands there, confused, when THE REAL LOKI comes out from behind a structure and shoves the Giant into the crevasse below. The false Loki dissipates into nothingness.
loki		 Pathetic. He turns back to the battle. Two Jotuns come at him from either side. He lets two daggers fly, felling both Giants at once. Laufey nods to one of his guards -- a massive Jotun BRUTE. The Brute leaps down from the balcony, icing himself up, then punches his giant fist into the ice beneath his feet. It's a long-range attack, causing PILLARS OF ICE to explode out in front of Hogun, sending the grim warrior flying back. Across the plaza, Thor easily dispatches some Jotuns.
thor		Come on! At least make it a challenge for me! He sees the Brute coming at him. The huge Jotun lands a tremendous blow, sending Thor back across the ice. Thor rises, grins.
sif		 I'm so glad I taught him how to do that! Volstagg grapples with a Frost Giant, getting a couple good hits in.
volstagg		You may want to put some ice on that! The Frost Giant fights back, but Volstagg manages to grip in a headlock just as another comes up on him from behind. Volstagg fends him off, then turns the first one loose.
sif		Of course you did. Nearby, a Frost Giant forms a BARRAGE OF ICE BULLETS, hurling them at Sif. Sif raises her shield barely in time, as the bullets go pinging and ricocheting off it. She races into the group of Frost Giants who attacked her and takes them out.
volstagg		Hang on! Volstagg swings his weapon, wildly hacking at the ice around Hogun's legs to free him. Hogun looks down, suddenly worried, as Volstagg's blade cuts deep -- and perilously close to hacking into Hogun's legs.
hogun		Watch the legs!
fandral		You really think your icicles are a match for Asgardian steel? Fandral lunges at the Giant. The Jotun knocks his blade away.
volstagg		That's unfortunate. He hurries to his wounded comrade.
fandral		I may need a bit of help. Not a good look, is it?
volstagg		Just try not to bleed.
fandral		How's the face?
volstagg		Flawless. Volstagg begins to pull the bleeding Fandral off the ice stalagmite. Loki plunges two daggers into the chest of one of the Frost Giants. The Giant grabs hold of Loki's gloved wrists. Loki pulls his hands free of the gloves, which are still in the Giant's grasp, revealing Loki's skin beneath. The wounded Jotun sees his chance, grabs hold of Loki's bare arm. Loki looks at his arm, prepared for the worst. But instead of the blackness of necrotizing flesh, Loki's arm turns BLUE -- like the Frost Giant's own skin. The blueness spreads painlessly up Loki's arm. He stares at it, confused. The Frost Giant is thrown as well, distracted by the unexpected phenomenon. Loki takes advantage of the distraction, KICKS the Giant.
thor		Come on! But when he hurls his hammer to take out a Jotun, the Frost Giants seize the opportunity. A group of Jotuns swarm Thor from all sides, keeping him separate from his weapon. Mjolnir falls to the ground. A Frost Giant desperately struggles to lift Mjolnir off the ground, to no avail. Now free, the wounded Fandral looks relieved as Volstagg slings him over his shoulder, and the warriors start to leave. From his balcony, Laufey looks upon the battlefield, decides it's time to pull out the big guns. He touches a wall of the palace. An ENERGY WAVE sweeps from his touch, across the wall of the palace, and down to the ground below. The Asgardians hear a foreboding CRACK OF ICE below their feet.
loki		That can't be good.
volstagg		Yes, it could! Might be an early spring! They look down, suddenly filled with dread when they see shadowy figures moving in the ice -- dozens of JOTUN WARRIORS awakening beneath the surface, rousing to join the battle. Loki turns to his brother, who battles a group of the Giants.
loki		Thor, we must go! Thor, still without his hammer, fights his Jotun foes mercilessly, a man consumed by blood lust. Loki sees the look on his brother's face -- the savage thrill of the heat of battle.
thor		Then go!
sif		There are too many of them!
thor		I can stop them! The others hesitate. Jotuns break up through the ice all around them.
sif		Thor! But Thor ignores his comrades, continues fighting.
volstagg		Run! Reluctantly, the group flees back toward the inner edge of the planet as the Giants break up through the ice and give chase. Thor battles valiantly, but there's just too many of them. The Frost Giants swarm him from all sides now, as he disappears beneath a pile of blue flesh and ice. After a
thor's fist		Forces its way up through the middle of the pile of Jotuns. He opens his hand, beckoning. One of Thor's attackers hears something ROARING up behind him. He whirls around -- BAM! -- Mjolnir nails him square in the face, then flies into Thor's outstretched hand. Thor raises the hammer up high, and brings it down on the ground with all his might. KRAKABOOM! Lightning strikes down from the sky, the hammer channeling the blast, firing the electricity out at the Jotuns around him. They're blasted back in a massive shockwave. The Jotuns convulse, drop dead to the ground.
loki		Likely killed us all! As the Jotuns race towards the Asgardians, they open their mouths wide and breathe out an ICY FOG. The swirling mists quickly engulf the fleeing Asgardians before them. The Asgardians stand in the mist, unable to see. Hogun takes a step back, the ice cracking beneath him. They dare not move, for fear of falling through, into the void below. Thor sees he's put his friends in even greater danger. He raises Mjolnir high, SUMMONING THE WINDS. They lift him off the ground and carry him across the frozen wasteland to his comrades.
thor		Loki, we have to see. Loki raises his arms, concentrates, the mists dissipating. But as they do, the Asgardians see before them the faces of the Frost Giants. And there are HUNDREDS of them -- too many, even for a Thunder God.
odin allfather		Astride his powerful, eight-legged steed SLEIPNIR. He's clad in battle armor, Gungnir in his hand -- an imposing sight.
odin		Laufey. End this.
laufey		Your boy sought this out.
odin		You're right. These are the actions of a boy. Treat them as such. You and I can stop this before there's further bloodshed. Unseen by Odin and the others, Laufey starts to form an ice blade at the end of his arm.
laufey		We are beyond diplomacy now, Allfather. He'll get what he came for -- war and death. Odin looks grim, determined.
odin		So be it. Without warning, Laufey swings his ice blade at Odin, but Odin is quicker. The Allfather brings his spear down upon the ice. Laufey and the nearest Jotuns go falling backwards in a wave, the ice cracking beneath their feet. The other Frost Giants turn tail and run. Thor watches the fleeing Jotuns with delight.
thor		Now! We'll finish them together!
odin		Silence! Odin raises his spear. The hole in the sky opens, the Bifrost energy blasting forth from it. The Bifrost envelops the Asgardians, yanks them off the ground and up through the hole. The vortex closes behind them as all falls silent. Laufey stares up after them contemptuously.
thor		Why did you bring us back?
odin		Do you realize what you've done? What you've started?
thor		I was protecting my home.
odin		You cannot protect your friends. How can you hope to protect a kingdom? Odin turns to the others.
thor		There won't be a kingdom to protect if you're afraid to act! Odin stares at him.
odin		That's pride and vanity that talks! Not leadership! Have you forgotten everything I've taught you? What of a warrior's patience, cunning?
thor		While you wait and be patient, the Nine Realms laugh at us! The old ways are done. You'd stand giving speeches while Asgard falls!
odin		You're a vain, greedy, cruel boy!
thor		And you are an old man and a fool! The whole world seems to stop at Thor's words. Odin falls quiet. When he speaks again, there's something terrifying beneath the calmness of his words.
odin		A fool, yes! I was a fool to think you were ready. Loki takes a step towards Odin imploringly.
odin		Thor Odinson... You have disobeyed the express command of your King. Through your arrogance and stupidity, you have opened these peaceful Realms and innocent lives to the horrors of war. The Allfather plunges Gungnir into Observatory's control panel. The turret turns, the Bifrost energy building along with Odin's rage. It FIRES, as the Bifrost opens at the end of the platform, creating a portal behind Thor. Odin turns angrily to his son.
thor's pov		Thor opens his eyes to see Jane Foster staring at him, concerned. She looks vulnerable and beautiful.
thor		Hammer...
darcy		Yeah, we can tell you're hammered. That's pretty obvious. Jane notices something on the ground around them. She shines her flashlight down at the sand.
jane		Erik... look at this. He joins her at her side and sees it. A faint, discernible pattern is etched into the sand. They exchange a look. Amazed and excited, Jane hurriedly takes out a camera and snaps some photos of the runes. A breeze begins to blow them away.
selvig		Jane, we need get him to a hospital. Jane kneels and quickly scoops up a soil sample in the cannister.
jane		Not right now. It'll take too long. County's an hour away. We'll drop him off after we're done here. Selvig looks uncertain.
thor		Father! Heimdall! I know you can hear me! Open the bridge!
jane		 Okay, you and Darcy take him to the hospital, I'll stay here.
selvig		You expect me to leave you alone in the middle of the desert? Thor turns to the others, frustrated.
thor		You! What world is this? The group is intimidated by his fervor.
selvig		It's all right, my friend. We're going to get you some help. Selvig touches Thor's shoulder. Thor shoves him off, grows agitated, belligerent.
thor		Where am I?! Answer me! Darcy reaches into her fanny pack, pulls something out of it. Jane looks on, concerned.
jane		Erik, just back away...
selvig		 You're in the desert outside the town of Puente Antiguo.
thor		What Realm?! Alfheim? Nornheim?
darcy		Uh... New Mexico? Darcy raises a TASER at him. Thor looks at the weapon, unsure what to make of it.
thor		You dare threaten Thor with so puny
darcy		What? He was freaking me out.
admissions nurse		Name?
jane		He said it was "Thor." The Nurse painstakingly types it into the computer, one key at a time. Jane watches as Thor is wheeled out of the room.
jane		I've never met him before.
darcy		Until she hit him with the car.
jane		Grazed him, actually.
jane		I told you, I don't know him. I just want to make sure he's okay.
admissions nurse		I'm going to need a name and contact number.
jane		Jane Foster.
selvig		Oh, for God's sake... He reaches over Jane's shoulder and hands the Nurse his business card.
nurse		Hi. Just taking a little blood. Thor SLAPS the syringe away angrily, starts to sit up.
thor		How dare you attack the son of Odin!
nurse		I need some help! Two ORDERLIES race over, try to hold Thor down.
thor		Then bring me a healing stone, you savages! He hurls one of them off, smashing against a wall. Now a couple SECURITY GUARDS and MALE NURSES join the fracas, all struggling to hold Thor down. Medical equipment goes flying, furniture overturned.
orderly		What the hell is this guy on? Finally, they force him back down onto the gurney. Thor looks shocked and amazed that he's actually being overpowered by this small group. The NURSE injects him with a sedative.
thor		You're no match for the Mighty-- Thor struggles a beat, then passes out.
townie		Huh.
jane		Darcy, when you're done, take the soil samples to Professor Meyers in geology. Remind him, he owes me.
selvig		We might want to perform a spectral analysis.
jane		"We?"
selvig		I flew all the way out here -- might as well make myself useful. This is the offer Jane's been waiting for. She gets up, inserts the piece of equipment she's been working on into a rack-mounted server.
jane		You know what would be really useful? Do you still have that friend at LIGO?
selvig		She was more than a friend.
jane		Could you call in a favor?
selvig		You don't think this was just a magnetic storm?
jane		If I'm right, their observatory must have picked up gravitational waves during last night's event.
selvig		Meaning? Jane heads over to a computer monitor. Selvig follows.
jane		Meaning these anomalies might signify something bigger.
selvig		How "big" are we talking about? Jane indicates the footage on the monitor. As the last of the Bifrost cloud disappears into the night sky, there appears to be a blister in space, bulging out in convex and covered with stars.
jane		I think the lensing around the edges is characteristic of an Einstein-Rosen Bridge.
darcy		A what?
selvig		I thought you were a science major.
darcy		Political Science. Selvig shoots Jane a confused look. Jane shrugs.
jane		She was the only applicant.
selvig		Stars.
jane		Yes. But not our stars. She spreads out a STAR CHART, barely able to contain her excitement.
darcy		Hey, check it out. Jane and Selvig examine the photo, amazed.
selvig		Is that...?
jane		I think I left something at the hospital. As Jane walks away, we REVEAL the photo. Inside the Bifrost funnel cloud is a FIGURE -- the vague, but unmistakable shape of a MAN.
frigga		How could you have done this?
odin		Do you understand what he set in motion? He's taken us to the brink of war!
frigga		But banishment? You would lose him forever? He's your son!
odin		What would you have done?
frigga		I would not have exiled him to a world of mortals, stripped of his powers, to suffer alone. I would not have had the heart for such cruelty!
odin		That is why I'm King.
frigga		You can bring him back.
odin		No. His fate is in his own hands now.
thor		It's not possible. He tries again, mustering all his strength. One of his hands slips free from its restraint.
admissions nurse		I'm sorry, only relatives can visit patients.
admissions nurse		I thought you said you didn't know him.
jane		I meant I barely know him anymore. The man he's become. He's changed. I mean, what woman really knows her husband, anyway?
admissions nurse		None of us, dear. He's in Room
jane		Typical. I just lost my most important piece of evidence.
darcy		So now what?
jane		We find him.
selvig		Did you see what he did in there? I don't know if finding him is the best idea.
jane		I want to know what that thing was, and he may have the answers. We don't have a choice.
darcy		Oo-kay. She pulls out her taser and a can of mace.
selvig		So we're just going to spend the rest of the day looking for him?
jane		However long it takes. Jane puts the car in reverse and backs up, when --
jane		I'm so sorry. I swear I'm not doing that on purpose.
thor		Blue sky... one sun... This is Earth, isn't it?
darcy		I think you may have hit him with the car one time too many.
volstagg		We should never have let him go.
sif		There was no stopping him.
fandral		At least he's only banished, not dead. Which is what we'd all be if that guard hadn't told Odin where we'd gone.
volstagg		How did the guard even know? Loki stares at his arm.
loki		I told him.
fandral		What?
loki		I told him to go to Odin after we'd left. Though he should be flogged for taking so long.
volstagg		You told the guard?
loki		I saved our lives! And Thor's. I had no idea Father would banish him for what he did.
sif		Loki, you're the only one who can help Thor now. You must go to the Allfather and convince him to change his mind!
loki		And if I do, then what? I love Thor more dearly than any of you, but you know what he is. He's arrogant. He's reckless. He's dangerous. You saw how he was today. Is that what Asgard needs from its King? The others exchange glances, torn. Loki has a point. He leaves the room. Hogun stares after him.
sif		He may speak about the good of Asgard, but he's always been jealous of Thor.
volstagg		True, but we should be grateful to him. He did save our lives.
hogun		Laufey said there were traitors in the House of Odin. The others turn to the usually quiet Hogun.
fandral		Why is it every time you choose to speak, it has to be something dark and ominous?
hogun		A master of magic could easily bring three Jotuns into Asgard. The others look to Hogun, understanding the implication.
volstagg		No! Surely not!
fandral		Loki's always been one for mischief, but you're talking about something else entirely.
sif		Who else could elude Heimdall's gaze with tricks of light and shadow?
volstagg		The ceremony was interrupted just before Thor was named King.
sif		We should go to the Allfather.
fandral		And tell him what? "Oh, by the way, we think your son just betrayed the throne. And do us a favor. Bring back Thor. There's a good fellow!"
sif		It's our duty. If any of our suspicions are right, then all of Asgard is in danger.
loki		Am I cursed?
odin		No. Put the Casket down. Loki sets the Casket back upon its pedestal, his body quickly returning to its normal form and color. He stares at his father.
loki		What am I?
odin		You're my son.
loki		What more than that? Odin doesn't answer. He looks suddenly weary, burdened. Loki sizes him up, realizes the truth.
odin		No.
loki		Laufey's son... He desperately struggles to make sense of it all.
odin		You were an innocent child.
loki		You took me for a purpose, what was it? Odin doesn't answer.
odin		I thought we could unite our kingdoms one day, bring about an alliance, bring about a permanent peace... through you. But those plans no longer matter.
loki		So I am no more than another stolen relic, locked up here until you might have use of me.
odin		Why do you twist my words?
loki		You could have told me what I was from the beginning. Why didn't you?
odin		You are my son. My blood. I wanted only to protect you from the truth.
loki		Because I am the monster parents tell their children about at night?
odin		Don't...
loki		It all makes sense now. Why you favored Thor all these years.
odin		Listen...
loki		Because no matter how much you claim to "love" me, you could never have a Frost Giant sitting on the Throne of Asgard! Odin's body begins to shake, he lifts his hand. It starts to move out of synch temporarily, leaving a trail, the effect of the Odinsleep approaching. Loki doesn't notice as Odin tries to fight it off.
odin		Listen to me! Loki strides away towards the exit.
loki		Guards!
eager townie		This'll do it. He yells to the driver.
darcy		You know, for a crazy homeless guy, he's pretty cut. Jane turns away. Thor emerges from the back room, holding a t-shirt.
jane		Excuse me... excuse me! She leads him away from the work station. Thor holds up the t-shirt. On the front, it bear a sticker which reads: "HELLO, MY NAME IS DR. DONALD BLAKE". Thor looks at it, puzzled. Jane rips the sticker off.
thor		They will suffice. Thor turns his attention to the pictures of the Bifrost on the wall.
jane		You're welcome. Now tell me... Thor studies the frame-grabs with interest. Jane points to his form in the Bifrost photo.
thor		What does anyone do in the Bifrost? Everyone stares at him. Selvig seems to recognize the word. Jane opens her notebook, quickly writes the word down. Thor moves close to her, eyes the notations and drawings within the book, curious.
selvig		 The Bifrost... Jane starts to get uncomfortable with Thor standing so close to her, looking over her notations. She quickly closes the book.
jane		What exactly is the Bifrost?
frigga		I asked him to be honest with you from the beginning. There should be no secrets in a family.
loki		So why did he lie?
frigga		He kept the truth from you so that you would never feel different. You are in every way our son, Loki, and we your family. You must know that. Loki takes this in, stares at Odin.
loki		How long will it last?
frigga		I don't know. This time is different. We were unprepared.
loki		I never get used to seeing him like this. The most powerful being in the Nine Realms lying helpless until his body is restored.
frigga		But he's put it off for so long now, I fear... Loki takes her hand. She's grateful, wipes tears from her eyes.
loki		What hope is there for Thor?
frigga		There's always a purpose to everything your father does. Thor may yet find a way home. Loki looks troubled by the revelation. He rises, heads for the exit, when they hear the clatter of ARMORED FOOTSTEPS hurriedly approaching.
jane		Now tell us exactly what happened to you last night. Thor looks her in the eyes, staring, intrigued. Jane gets flustered, looks away.
darcy		And how you could eat an entire box of Pop-Tarts and still be this hungry. Jane shoots her a withering look. Thor downs a cup of coffee.
thor		 This drink. I like it.
darcy		 Yeah, it's great, isn't it? Isabela makes the best coffee in town. Thor hurls the empty mug at the ground, SHATTERING it.
jane		Sorry, Izzy. Little accident.
jane		 What was that? He doesn't understand. The other patrons stare at him.
thor		It was delicious. I want another.
jane		Then you should just say so!
thor		I just did.
jane		I mean ask for it. Nicely.
thor		I meant no disrespect.
jane		All right, then no more smashing, deal?
thor		You have my word.
jane		Good.
isabela		Morning, Pete. Jake.
townie pete		The usual, please, Izzy. Isabela pours them a couple cups of coffee.
isabela		What crater? Jane and Selvig overhear this, exchange a look, turn to the Townies with interest.
townie pete		They're saying some kind of satellite crashed in the desert.
jane		 Excuse me, did you say there was a satellite crash?
darcy		Oh my God, this is going on Facebook. Darcy whips out her cellphone.
selvig		 What did the satellite look like?
thor		Where?!
pete		I wouldn't bother! Looked like the whole Army was coming in when we left!
jane		Where are you going?
thor		Twelve miles east of here. He starts to stride determinedly down the street. Jane walks with him.
jane		Why?
thor		To get what belongs to me.
jane		So now you own a satellite?
thor		It's not what they say it is.
jane		Whatever it is, the government seems to think it's theirs. You intend to just walk in there and take it?
thor		Yes. He stops walking.
jane		Everything?
thor		All the answers you seek will be yours, once I reclaim Mjolnir. Darcy looks to the others.
darcy		"Myeu-muh?" What's "Myeu-muh?" Jane studies Thor. He looks sincere. She's nearly swayed,
selvig		Jane. He pulls her aside. Thor can tell that Selvig doesn't much care for him.
jane		You know what we saw last night. This can't be a coincidence. I want to know what's in that crater.
selvig		I'm not talking about the crater. I'm talking about him.
jane		He's promised us answers.
selvig		He's delusional! Listen to what he's saying! "Thor." "Bifrost." "Mjolnir." These are the stories I grew up with as a child!
jane		I'd just be driving him out there, that's all.
selvig		It's dangerous. He's dangerous.
jane		I'm sorry. I can't take you.
thor		I understand. Then this is where we say goodbye. He takes her hand and kisses it.
jane		That's... thank you. Thor bows slightly to each of them.
thor		Jane Foster... Erik Selvig... Darcy. Farewell. He heads off down the street. Selvig looks relieved.
selvig		Now... let's get back to the lab. We have work to do. Selvig and Darcy turn and start to go. Jane looks after Thor as he walks away down the street.
sif		Allfather, we must speak with you
loki		Sitting sprawled upon his father's throne. He wears his horned ceremonial headdress and holds GUNGNIR in his hand. Sif and the others look up, shocked at the sight before them.
volstagg		What is this?
loki		My friends... you haven't heard? I am now Ruler of Asgard.
fandral		Where is Odin?
loki		Father's fallen into the Odinsleep. My mother fears he may never awaken again.
sif		We would speak with her. Sif and the Warriors Three exchange a look. Loki notices.
loki		She has refused to leave my father's bedside. You can bring your "urgent" matter to me, your King. Sif covers quickly.
sif		We would ask you to end Thor's banishment.
loki		My first command can not be to undo the Allfather's last. We're on the brink of war with Jotunheim. Our people must have a sense of continuity in order to feel safe in these difficult times. Sif and the Warriors Three trade looks, not liking any of this.
fandral		Of course. Sif and the Warriors Three bow their heads and exit. Loki stares after them.
jane		Hey! That's my stuff!
jane		What the hell is going on here?! The Agents ignore her as Agent Coulson approaches.
coulson		Ms. Foster, I'm Agent Coulson, with
jane		I don't care who you work for, you can't do this!
selvig		Jane. This is more serious than you realize. Let it go.
jane		Let it go?! This is my life!
coulson		We're here investigating a security threat. We need to appropriate your equipment and all your atmospheric data.
jane		By "appropriate" you mean "steal?" Instead of answering, Coulson gives her a check.
coulson		This should more than compensate you for your trouble. She throws the check to the ground without looking at it.
jane		I can't just pick up replacements from RadioShack! I made most of that equipment myself!
coulson		Then I'm sure you can do it again.
jane		And I'm sure I can sue you for violating my constitutional rights!
coulson		We're the good guys, Ms. Foster. He tries to walk away, but Jane blocks his path. She is fully herself, fueled by outrage.
jane		So are we! We're on the verge of
understanding something		extraordinary. Jane holds up her notebook.
coulson		Thank you for your cooperation. He gets into a car. The cars and trucks pull away.
jane		Years of research, gone.
darcy		They even took my iPod.
selvig		And your back-ups?
jane		Look around! They took our back- ups. They took the back-ups of our back-ups.
darcy		I just downloaded, like, thirty songs on there.
selvig		No one knows much about them. But I knew a scientist -- a pioneer in gamma radiation. SHIELD showed up, and he was never heard from again.
jane		I'm not going to let them do this. I'm getting everything back.
selvig		Please, let me contact one of my colleagues. Dr. Pym has had some dealings with these people. I'll e- mail him and see if he can help.
darcy		They took your laptop, too. Annoyed, Selvig thinks.
selvig		I'll just be a minute. He climbs out and heads inside. Jane looks down the street and sees something that intrigues her.
thor		I need a horse.
thor		Then give me one of those, large enough to ride. The Pet Store Clerk looks confused. Just then, Thor hears a CAR HORN. He turns to the open door. Across the street, Jane calls to him from the Pinzgauer.
jane		You still want a lift?
jane		I've never done anything like this before! Have you ever done anything like this before? Thor looks amused by her excitement.
thor		Many times. You're brave to do it.
jane		They just stole my entire life's work. I really don't have anything left to lose.
thor		But you're clever. Far more clever than anyone else in this Realm.
jane		"This Realm?" Why do you talk like that?
thor		You think me strange? Jane laughs, catches herself.
jane		Yeah. Just a little.
thor		Good strange or bad strange?
jane		I'm not quite sure yet. She looks at him, sees him staring at her. She's lost in his gaze, distracted, when the PINZGAUER LURCHES. She quickly turns her eyes forward, regains control of the car.
thor		You'll see soon enough.
jane		You promised me answers.
thor		What you seek -- it's a bridge.
jane		A bridge? Like an Einstein-Rosen Bridge?
thor		More like a rainbow bridge.
jane		God, I hope you're not crazy.
jane		That isn't a satellite crash. They would have hauled the wreckage away, not built a city around it. Thor shrugs out of his jacket and hands it to her.
thor		You're going to need this.
jane		Why?-- Thunder RUMBLES overhead. She stares at him intently and takes his jacket.
thor		Stay here. Once I have Mjolnir, I will return what they stole from you.
jane		No! Look what's down there! You can't just walk in, grab our stuff, and walk out!
thor		No. Jane looks relieved.
jane		Wait... But Thor is already headed towards the crater.
techie		Feed from the keyhole. Can barely penetrate the cloud cover. The Techie hikes a thumb at another monitor, SQUELCHING with static. It shows an SAR shot of the area, laid over a terrain map.
sitwell		Reroute it, like all the others.
techie		Right. Can I get the passengers some free drinks for the trouble? Sitwell glares at him.
sitwell		 DeLancey, Jackson -- check it out.
agent delancey		Jackson? The Agents reach for their weapons. Thor elbows the driver across the jaw, causing him to drop his weapon. Jackson slumps over the steering wheel, as DeLancey starts to raise a shotgun at Thor. Thor grabs the barrel, yanks it out of DeLancey's hands and thrusts the hilt back, smashing the Agent's jaw. Thor reaches into the jeep to grab a rain slicker.
shield agent		Agents down! We've got a perimeter breach!
sitwell		 Get Coulson. Sitwell punches an alarm.
jane		Erik, okay, first of all, don't worry. I'm perfectly fine, really. More sounds of MAYHEM come from the base.
coulson		I want eyes up high. With a gun. Now!
coulson		Barton. Talk to me.
thor		You're big. Thor grins.
jane		No...
coulson		Barton...
coulson		Ground units, move in. Show's over. As the Agents surround him, Thor doesn't seem to notice or care. He just sits there on his knees, head bowed in the rain -- a man broken, lost. From overhead, we see the hammer in the cube containment room. We pull up as the Guards approach Thor, then continue to climb, until we see the whole camp -- and the extensive damage Thor's done to it during the melee.
jane		I can't just leave him there.
selvig		Why not?
jane		You didn't see what happened. Darcy points at an illustration of Thor's hammer in the book.
darcy		Hey! Myeu-muh! Jane looks at the illustration in the book, turns to Selvig knowingly.
selvig		In the children's section. I wanted to show you how ridiculous his story was. Jane is unconvinced by this. She knows he wants to believe.
jane		Aren't you the one who's always told me to chase down all leads, all possibilities?
selvig		I was talking about science, not magic!
jane		Magic's just science we don't understand yet. Arthur C. Clarke.
selvig		Who wrote science fiction.
jane		The precursor of science fact.
selvig		In some cases.
jane		If that's really an Einstein-Rosen Bridge out there, then there's something on the other side.
selvig		Jane...
darcy		A primitive culture like the Vikings might have worshipped them as deities. They give her a look, surprised by her unexpectedly insightful input. Darcy shrugs. Jane points at her, grateful for the support.
jane		Yes! Exactly! Thank you! Darcy beams.
selvig		Jane, if you do this, you'll find yourself in a situation that I won't be able to get you out of this time.
darcy		I'll help you. Jane looks grateful. Selvig looks at her, sees there's no stopping her. He sighs.
coulson		It's not easy to do what you did. You made us all look like a bunch of mall cops. That's hurtful.
thor		Just a man.
coulson		One way or another, we find out what we want to know. We're good at that. Coulson leaves the room. Thor lowers his head.
thor		Loki? What are you doing here?
loki		I had to see you.
thor		What's happened? Tell me! Is it Jotunheim? Let me explain to
loki		Father is dead. Thor stares at him, stunned.
thor		What?
loki		Your banishment, the threat of a new war, it was too much for him to bear. The implications of Loki's words dawn on Thor -- he's responsible for his father's fate. Loki draws close to him, looks in his eyes, consolingly.
thor		Can I come home?
loki		The truce with Jotunheim is conditional upon your exile.
thor		But couldn't we find a way to--
loki		Mother has forbidden your return. Thor nods, lowers his head, beaten.
thor		No, I'm sorry. Loki... thank you for coming here.
loki		Nothing could have stopped me. Coulson enters the room, but seems to take no notice of Loki.
thor		Good-bye.
coulson		Good-bye? I just got back. Thor looks up to see that Loki is gone.
coulson		"Donald Blake?"
selvig		Doctor Donald Blake. He's part of our team.
coulson		You have dangerous coworkers, Dr. Selvig.
selvig		Troubled, not dangerous. He was distraught when he found out that you'd taken all of our research. It was years of his life, gone! He got depressed, started drinking, and... well, you know the rest.
coulson		Uh-huh. You mind if we take a moment to verify his identity?
selvig		Certainly. The Techie at a computer nearby runs the name.
coulson		That doesn't explain how he managed to tear through our security. Selvig shrugs.
selvig		Steroids. He's a bit of a fitness nut.
coulson		It says here he's an M.D.
selvig		He is. That is, he was. He switched careers and became a physicist. He's quite brilliant, really.
coulson		Release Dr. Blake to Dr. Selvig here. The Techie looks to him, surprised.
selvig		Thank you.
selvig		Donny, Donny, Donny! There you are! Thor looks up, unsure what the hell is going on. Selvig pulls Thor to his feet, gives him a warm hug.
coulson		Just keep him away from the bars.
selvig		I will!
selvig		To get a drink. Selvig and Thor climb into the SUV. As they drive off, Coulson turns to the other two agents -- GARRETT and CALE.
coulson		Follow them.
laufey		Tell me why I shouldn't kill you.
loki		I've come alone and unarmed.
laufey		To what end?
loki		To make you another proposition.
loki		You're welcome.
laufey		My men are dead, and I have no Casket. You are a deceiver. Laufey lashes out, grabs Loki around the throat, but Loki calmly stands his ground.
loki		You have no idea what I am. The blueness spreads across his face, as Laufey and the guards stare in shock. Loki grins.
laufey		Ah, the bastard son. I thought Odin had killed you. That's what I would have done. He's as weak as you are.
loki		No longer weak. I now rule Asgard, until Odin awakens. Perhaps you should not have so carelessly abandoned me. This gives Laufey pause.
laufey		Or perhaps it was the wisest choice I've ever made. I will hear you.
loki		I will conceal you and a handful of your soldiers, lead you into his chambers, and let you slay him where he lies. I'll keep the throne, and you will have the Casket. Laufey studies Loki's face.
laufey		Why would you do this?
loki		When all is done, we will have a permanent peace between our two worlds. Then I, the bastard son, will have accomplished what Odin and Thor never could.
laufey		This is a great day for Jotunheim. Asgard is finally ours.
loki		No. Asgard is mine. The rest of the Nine Realms will be yours, if you do as you're told. Laufey considers the proposition.
laufey		I accept. Loki turns to leave. As he goes, the slightest trace of a smile crosses his face.
loki		What troubles you, Gatekeeper?
heimdall		I turned my gaze upon you in Jotunheim, but could neither see nor hear you. You were shrouded from me, like the Frost Giants who entered this Realm.
loki		Perhaps your senses have weakened after your many years of service.
heimdall		Or perhaps someone has found a way to hide that which he does not wish me to see. Loki sizes him up, smiles.
loki		You have great power, Heimdall. Tell me, did Odin ever fear you?
heimdall		No.
loki		And why is that?
heimdall		Because he is my King, and I am sworn to obey him.
loki		Exactly. Just as you're sworn to obey me now. Yes? A beat.
heimdall		Yes.
loki		Good. Then you will open the Bifrost to no one until I have undone what my brother has started. Loki heads out of the Observatory. Heimdall stares after him.
selvig		Seems Darcy's a terrible intern, but a talented hacker.
thor		Thank you for what you've done.
selvig		Don't thank me. I only did it for Jane.
thor		Are you in love with her?
selvig		Of course not! Jane's like a daughter to me. Her father and I taught at University together. A good man, but he never listened. This registers with Thor.
thor		Neither did I. Selvig eyes him with interest.
selvig		I don't know if you're really delusional, and I really don't care at this point. I just care about her. I've seen the way she looks at you.
thor		I swear to you, I mean her no harm.
selvig		Good. If that's the case, then I'll buy you one more drink, and you'll leave town tonight. A long pause, then Thor nods. He takes a drink.
thor		I had it all backwards. I had it all wrong. Selvig watches him keenly. This is a different Thor than he's seen before.
selvig		It's not a bad thing, finding out that you don't have all the answers. That's when you start asking the right questions. Thor takes this in.
thor		For the first time in my life, I have no idea what I'm supposed to do.
selvig		Anyone who's ever going to find their way in this world has to start by admitting they don't know where the hell they are. Thor nods.
thor		I have no quarrel with you. But she's a lady. You should be more respectful.
drunk townie		And you should shut the hell up, princess. Selvig looks to Thor, concerned that he's going to lose it. But, to his surprise, Thor remains unaffected by the Townie's baiting.
selvig		Gentlemen, please. Let's keep our heads. Just then, Selvig HEAD-BUTTS the Townie, knocking him out. Thor's impressed. Selvig downs his drink, then hurls his glass aside, SHATTERING it on the ground.
thor		Standing there with the unconscious Selvig slung over his shoulder.
jane		Erik!
thor		He's fine. Not injured at all.
jane		What happened?
thor		We drank. We fought. He made his ancestors proud.
jane		Put him on the bed. Thor moves through the small trailer carrying Selvig, like a bear lugging another bear, smashing into things along the way, until he finally sets Selvig down on Jane's bed. Selvig awakens groggily and looks up at him through bleary eyes.
selvig		I still don't believe you're the God of Thunder.
thor		These are your chambers? Jane suddenly becomes self-conscious. She starts cleaning up the mess around her.
jane		Well, it's more of a temporary living space, really. I don't usually have visitors in here. Actually, never... Thor picks up a sock off the floor. She snatches it from him, puts it away.
jane		I come up here sometimes when I can't sleep. Or when I'm trying to reconcile particle data. Or when Darcy's driving me crazy.
thor		You've been very kind. I've been far less grateful than you deserve.
jane		I also hit you with my car a couple times, so it kind of evens out. He grins, then reaches into his pocket and pulls out her
thor		It was all I could get back. Not as much as I promised. I'm sorry.
jane		No, this is good. Thank you. This means I don't have to start from scratch... She sits down and opens the notebook eagerly, then stops, a harsh realization clouding her face. Thor notices.
thor		What's wrong?
jane		SHIELD, whatever they are. They're never going to let this research see the light of day.
thor		You must do this. You must finish what you've started.
jane		Why?
thor		Because you're right. It's taken so many generations for your people to get to this point. You're nearly there. You just need someone to show you how close you really are.
jane		What is it?
thor		This is how my father explained it to me...
fandral		Our dearest friend banished, Loki on the throne, Asgard on the brink of war, yet you manage to consume four wild boar, six pheasant, a side of beef, and two casks of ale. Shame on you! Don't you care?! Fandral moves to throw the platter in the fire, but Volstagg pulls his weapon, stopping him.
volstagg		Do not mistake my appetite for apathy.
sif		Stop it, both of you! We all know what we have to do, we're just too damned afraid to do it!
fandral		It's treason, Hogun.
volstagg		To hell with treason, it's suicide.
fandral		Yes, yes, we know!
sif		Thor would do the same for us. An EINHERJAR GUARD enters. They tense.
einherjar guard		Heimdall demands your presence. Volstagg quickly drains his flagon of ale.
volstagg		We're doomed.
selvig		I need some coffee. The three head inside Smith Motors.
darcy		Thanks.
thor		You're very welcome. Jane joins them at the card table with a couple more plates. She and Thor sit with the others and start to eat their breakfast, looking like a little family.
agent garrett		They want an update.
agent cale		Tell them he's eating eggs.
agent garrett		Scrambled or fried? Cale glares at him.
darcy		Sure.
thor		Thank you. Excuse me a moment. Thor leaves.
thor		To replace the one I broke. Please forgive my behavior.
isabel		Okay. Thank you.
thor		If I may, I'd like to come back for more of your "coffee."
isabel		Any time. He nods and walks away. She stares after him, smiling, and shrugs.
volstagg		Good Heimdall, less us explain--
heimdall		You would defy the commands of Loki our King, break every oath you have taken as warriors, and commit treason to bring Thor back? The four exchange nervous glances.
sif		Yes, but--
heimdall		Good. The group looks puzzled. What did he just say?
volstagg		So you'll help us?
heimdall		I am bound by honor to our King. I cannot open the Bifrost to you. With that, Heimdall leaves them alone in the Observatory. The others exchange puzzled looks.
fandral		Complicated fellow, isn't he?
volstagg		Now what do we do? Sif glances at the control panel, notices something.
sif		Look! The others turn to see HEIMDALL'S SWORD stuck into the control panel. They exchange a grin. They have an ally. Sif hits the controls, and the Bifrost apparatus fires up.
coulson		What the hell was that?
techie		I don't know, sir. We got massive energy readings out of nowhere, then they just disappeared. Fifteen miles due northwest.
coulson		Let's go take a look.
volstagg		He must have landed nearby. It's time to put our tracking skills to work. Spread out. Check the sand for indentations of his boot prints.
fandral		The winds would have blown them away by now. We should look for signs of a campfire.
sif		Or we could just start there. She points behind them to the town of Puente Antiguo in the distance -- the only visible sign of civilization -- and to Hogun, who has already started walking towards it. Volstagg and Fandral trade looks, their egos bruised.
fandral		It's worth a look, I suppose. The party tromps towards the town.
sif		It has been a thousand years...
volstagg		Things change so fast here. You leave for a millennium, and it's like the whole neighborhood's gone. Volstagg sniffs, smells something.
agent garrett		Is there a Renaissance Faire in town?
agent cale		Call it in. But before they can, Volstagg rises up behind them, smashes their heads together. They're out.
volstagg		Never cared for spies. He starts to go, then sees their bag of fast food on the ground. Intrigued, he pulls out a cheeseburger and takes a bite. He likes what he tastes.
einherjar guard		My liege, the Warriors Three and the Lady Sif have gone missing. Loki reacts. He knows who's responsible.
heimdall		Tell me, Loki, how did you get the Jotuns into Asgard?
loki		You think the Bifrost is the only way in and out of the Realm? There are secret paths between worlds to which even you with all your gifts are blind. But I have need of them no longer, now that I am King.
heimdall		Then I need no longer obey you. Heimdall raises his massive sword, strides towards Loki. Loki reaches out and, with both hands, takes hold of something invisible, hovering in mid-air before him. As it quickly fades into view, we realize what it is --
loki		Ensure my brother does not return.
thor		My friends! Thor happily races over and greets his comrades. Jane, Selvig, and Darcy watch the Asgardians from across the room. Jane looks concerned. Selvig and Darcy eye them with wonder.
selvig		I don't believe it...
darcy		Who are they?
volstagg		Lady Sif and the Warriors Three. Surely you've heard tales of Hogun the Grim, Fandral the Dashing, and I, Volstagg the Svelte? Selvig looks pointedly at Volstagg's massive gut.
thor		My friends, I've never been happier to see anyone. But you should not have come.
fandral		We're here to take you home. Jane reacts to the news of Thor leaving.
thor		You know I can't. My father is dead because of me. I must remain in exile. The other Asgardians exchange puzzled looks.
sif		Thor... your father still lives. Thor reacts to the revelation.
coulson		Get somebody from Linguistics out here. Just then, they hear a RUMBLING overhead, as the Bifrost storm ROARS in the sky above. Coulson and the SHIELD Agents scramble for cover, their vehicle windshields SHATTERING, as the Bifrost storm grows in strength. Finally, the hole in the sky overhead opens, and the funnel cloud EXPLODES out of it, touching down onto the desert floor. Coulson and the Agents shelter their eyes from the maelstrom.
darcy		Was somebody else coming? Just then, the Bifrost funnel EXPLODES down to the ground.
coulson		I don't think so. But the guy doesn't tell me anything.
thor		Leave this town now. Get yourself and your friends to safety.
jane		What about you?
thor		I must stay and fight. The Asgardians look to Thor.
volstagg		You're but a mortal now. You'll get yourself killed!
fandral		Or one of us, trying to protect you.
sif		The best thing you can do is get the mortals to safety and leave the battle to us. Thor looks at the townsfolk around them, all oblivious to the oncoming threat.
loki		Father. Welcome to Asgard.
the destroyer		Strides down the street, a red, fiery energy glowing from within it. It unleashes BLASTS as it goes, blowing up cars, setting storefronts aflame.
sif		Keep him distracted. She hurries off. The Warriors Three continue towards the behemoth.
fandral		What do you think? "The Svartalfheim Twist?" "Kiss of the Hag?" "Face Full of Boot?" Volstagg grins eagerly.
volstagg		"The Flying Mountain." Hogun and Fandral groan.
fandral		Not "The Flying Mountain!" It threw out my back for a year last time!
volstagg		Trust me, it'll work.
volstagg		For Asgaaaaard!!!
sif		Leaps off a nearby rooftop with her two-headed spear and plunges it deep into the back of the creature. The creature stands there motionless, the fire dimming in its faceplate, Sif standing atop its back. The Asgardians have a brief moment of hope. But the creature stirs with life, its fire igniting once again. Sif looks on with growing trepidation. Slowly, unnaturally, the Destroyer spins its torso around 180 degrees to face its attackers. The Destroyer unleashes a blast at Sif. She barely dives off of the behemoth in time, dodging the blast. The Destroyer rises again to its full height, pulling free from Sif's staff, the weapon slipping through the slats of its armor. Sif and the Warriors Three try to regroup, when the Destroyer unleashes another blast, sending Sif and her comrades flying in all directions. Hogun's POUCH OF HEALING STONES breaks free, landing in the middle of the street.
jane		Erik! She and Thor hurry to his side. He's losing blood, going into shock.
thor		Come on... give me one! Amidst the useless powder, he finally finds one stone still intact. Thor tosses the pouch aside, holds the stone over the end of the iron rod.
jane		What are you doing? What is that? As the stone begins to glow, Thor crushes it. Jane looks on, amazed, as the glowing powder falls upon the piece of iron, dissolving it, heading downwards, until it reaches Selvig's wound. The powder heals his wound completely. Thor looks down the street, sees his wounded friends still lying there, as Selvig sits up in utter astonishment. He reaches through the hole in his shirt to touch his healed flesh.
selvig		 I'm really starting to like him. Jane turns to Thor to find he's gone.
thor		Go, while you can!
sif		But the others...
thor		You can't help them now. Your job is to survive. She struggles to sit up.
sif		No! I will die a warrior's death. Stories will be told of this day-- He gently takes her shield from her.
thor		Live and tell those stories yourself. At last, she nods. Thor spots Volstagg lying unconscious, with Hogun and Fandral lying nearby. Thor makes his way towards them. Volstagg is barely breathing. Thor tries to pull him to safety, but it's no use. He won't budge. He rouses Hogun and Fandral.
fandral		No. We can still fight!
thor		But not win. Move Volstagg, or he'll die! Thor looks at them, grins.
selvig		Jane, no! He pulls her into Smith Motors. A RAVEN flies overhead, watching the scene --
jane		Oh. My. God.
coulson		Donald... I don't think you've been completely honest with me.
darcy		So, how can you speak our language?
volstagg		Your language? Ha! Silly girl, you're speaking ours. Thor calls up to the sky.
thor		Heimdall! Open the Bifrost!
thor		He would open it if he could. I fear the worst.
volstagg		Then we're trapped here forever.
fandral		Then I suppose we'd best start settling into our new lives. He looks to Darcy, turns on the charm.
darcy		No. Thor shouts back up to the sky.
thor		Heimdall!
volstagg		Primitive. Good enough for hunting small game, I suppose. Suddenly, the Bifrost EXPLODES down from the sky. Thor grins. The mortals look on, amazed. Fandral turns to Darcy.
fandral		Sorry, my love. These things happen.
thor		Know this, son of Coul. You and I, we fight for the same cause -- the protection of this world. From this day forward, count me as your ally.
coulson		Not stolen. Borrowed. Jane shoots him a look. Coulson quickly continues.
thor		Whatever fate lies before me, you are part of it. He takes her in his arms, kisses her passionately. Thor and the Asgardians leap into the Bifrost.
thor		 Get him to the healing room! Leave my brother to me.
laufey		It's said you can still see and hear what transpires around you, even in this state. I hope it's true, so that you may know your death came by the hand of Laufey. He raises his blade above Odin's body, when --
loki		And your death came by the son of Odin.
frigga		Standing behind him -- the sword stuck in his back. She looks to Loki, takes him in her arms.
frigga		Thor! She moves to Thor and hugs him, but Thor's eyes remain fixed on his brother. Loki looks at Mjolnir in his brother's hand.
loki		Found its way back to you, did it?
thor		No thanks to you. Frigga picks up on the tension building between her sons.
frigga		What?
thor		Why don't you tell her? How you sent the Destroyer to kill our friends? To kill me? Frigga looks to Loki, alarmed and confused.
loki		It must have been enforcing Father's last command.
thor		You're a talented liar, brother. Always have been.
thor		Jotunheim...
loki		All these years, and no one's ever dared to use it as a weapon. Thor hurries to the ice, raises his hammer to SMASH through it to get to the controls frozen within. Before he can, Loki fires Gungnir. The blast hits the ice in front of Thor, blasting him back across the floor. Loki steps down from the ice as Thor staggers to his feet.
thor		Why have you done this?
loki		To do what Father never could. To destroy their kind forever. When he awakens, he'll see the wisdom of what I've done.
thor		He won't! You can't kill an entire race!
loki		What is this newfound love for the Frost Giants? You, who would have killed them all with your bare hands.
thor		I've changed.
loki		So have I. Loki hits Thor across the face with Gungnir.
thor		Is the throne really worth what you've done? What you would become?
loki		I never wanted the throne. I only wanted to be your equal. Now fight me!
thor		I will not fight you, brother.
loki		I am not your brother. I never was.
thor		Loki, this is madness... Loki grins.
loki		Is it? He FIRES Gungnir at Thor. Thor dodges the blast, rolls to his feet.
selvig		Jane?
jane		Something's wrong.
loki		If you care so much for the Jotuns, then die with them. The Bifrost stretches every cell of Thor's body, trying to drag him away. He's nearly swallowed by the vortex, when he concentrates, mustering his will. He reaches out his hand towards the Bifrost. MJOLNIR flies back through the maelstrom, into Thor's hand. The hammer pulls him free. Loki tries to fire off another blast at him, but Thor takes to the air, speeds towards his brother.
loki		Thor! Help me! Thor steps over to the side of the Bridge, sees Loki looking up at him desperately.
lokis		I was always more clever than you.
thor		Yet still not clever enough. With that, Thor raises his hammer, rising into the air, summoning lightning. A massive bolt strikes Mjolnir, then channels outwards, splitting up, striking each one of the Lokis. All of them dissipate into nothingness, save one -- the real Loki -- who's sent flying back across the Bridge, Gungnir knocked from his grasp. Thor steps over to his fallen brother, lying dazed on his back. Loki winces, prepares for the worst, when Thor steps away. Loki opens his eyes, tries to stand, but can't. He looks confused, then sees what the problem is -- Mjolnir rests atop his chest. Struggle as he may, Loki can't lift it off. He's pinned to the ground. Thor looks about him desperately -- at the Bifrost firing towards Jotunheim, gaining in strength, at the surge of energy moving through the Bridge. He's at a loss of what to do. Loki watches him smugly.
loki		Look at you, the Mighty Thor. With all your strength, what good does it do you now? Thor knows Loki's right. He's powerless to stop what's happening. He looks down at the Bridge beneath his feet, VIBRATING from the force and speed of the Bifrost energy feeding into the Observatory. Then he gets an idea. He realizes what he must do -- and what he must sacrifice. Thor extends his hand towards Loki, summoning Mjolnir. The hammer goes flying to his grasp. Loki looks confused.
thor		Forgive me. Summoning every bit of strength he has left, Thor raises Mjolnir one last time, drawing lightning to it from all sides, and brings it down with a final, terrible blow -- KRAKABOOM! The Bifrost SHATTERS, rainbow energy EXPLODING out of it. Both Loki and Thor are hurled into the air by the force of the blast. A wave of destruction moves forward along the Bridge towards the Observatory, breaking it apart as it goes. The Observatory RIPS ITSELF APART. As Loki and Thor fall together, Thor grabs hold of one end of Gungnir, while Loki still clutches the other. They both fall towards the MASSIVE WAVE of Bifrost energy which spews out from the broken Bridge. They're an instant from being blasted by the destructive force of the energy, carried away by the current, pulverized by the debris, when --
odin allfather		Standing on the edge of the broken Bridge, awakened from the Odinsleep, restored to his full strength. Loki searches his father's face, looking for some kind of approval, some kind of redemption, but all he sees is disappointment and regret. Loki lets go.
odin		It is over.
jane		It's gone.
volstagg		...and then, with a mighty bellow, I flew at the great metal beast and laid it low...
fandral		Is that another way of saying you fell on your huge a--
volstagg		As a matter of fact, falling down was a tactic. Lulling the Destroyer into a false sense of security!
fandral		Well, I was the one who had to drag your enormous carcass off the battlefield. That makes me the real hero. Doesn't it, Hogun? Hogun points to Volstagg.
hogun		Big stomach.  Big mouth. The other gathered Asgardians laugh. Volstagg and Fandral look to Hogun. The grim warrior gives just a trace of a smile.
fandral		Well, how about that? A smile! I'd say that calls for another drink! They laugh and raise another round. Frigga sits nearby, lost in thought, her face betraying the sadness she struggles to conceal. Sif notices, approaches Frigga, bows her head.
sif		My Queen. I am so sorry for your loss. Frigga takes Sif's hand appreciatively.
frigga		Thank you, Sif. She looks to Thor, who's unable to enjoy the merriment around him.
sif		He mourns for his brother. And he misses her. The mortal. Frigga sees the trace of regret in Sif's face as she looks at Thor with new feelings. He rises and leaves the hall.
frigga		He will need his friends now more than ever.
sif		I will always be at his side. Frigga understands, puts her arm around Sif gratefully.
odin		You'll be a wise King.
thor		There will never be a wiser king than you. Or a better father.
odin		You've already made me proud. Odin leaves, Thor consoled by his words.
thor		Can you see her? Heimdall turns, gazes out towards Earth.
heimdall		Yes.
thor		How is she?
darcy		Here you go.
jane		Thanks. Jane inserts the flash drive into the device.
darcy		He would have come back if he could.
jane		I know. But if he can't get here on his own... Jane hits a switch on the device. Suddenly, a 3-D HOLOGRAPHIC PROJECTION bursts to life over the device, bathing the two women in its glow. We recognize what it is -- YGGDRASIL, in all its beauty.
****Dialogues from script :Thor_Ragnarok.txt****

thor		Now I know what you're thinking. Oh no! Thor's in a cage. How did this happen?  Well, sometimes you have to get captured just to get a straight answer out of somebody. It's a long story but basically I'm a bit of a hero. See, I spent some time on earth, fought some robots, saved the planet a couple of times. Then I went searching through the cosmos for some magic, colorful Infinity Stone things... didn't find any. That's when I came across a path of death and destruction which led me all the way here into this cage... where I met you.
thor		Surtur. Son of a bitch...you're still alive! I thought my father killed you, like, half a million years ago.
surtur		I cannot die. Not until I fulfill my destiny and lay waste to your home.
thor		You know, it's funny you should mention that because I've been having these terrible dreams of late. Asgard up in flames, falling to ruins, and you Surtur are at the center of all of them.
surtur		Then you have seen Ragnarok, the fall of Asgard. The great prophecy--
surtur		My time has come. When my crown is reunited with the Eternal Flame, I shall be restored to my full might. I will tower over the mountains and bury my sword deep in Asgard's--
thor		Oh, hang on. Give it a second.
surtur		A mountain!
thor		The Eternal Flame that Odin keeps locked away on Asgard?
surtur		Odin is not on Asgard. And your absence has left the throne defenseless.
thor		Okay, so where is it? This crown?
surtur		This is my Crown, the source of my power.
thor		Oh, that's a crown? I thought it was a big eyebrow.
surtur		It's a crown.
thor		Anyway, it sounds like all I have to do to stop Ragnarok is rip that thing off your head.
surtur		But Ragnarok has   already begun. You cannot stop it.    I am Asgard's doom, and so are   you. All will suffer, all will   burn.
thor		That's intense. To be honest, seeing you grow really big and set fire to a planet would be quite the spectacle. But it looks like I'm going to have to go with option B where I bust out of these chains, knock that tiara off your head, and stash it away in Asgard's vault.
surtur		You cannot stop Ragnarok. Why fight it?
thor		Because that's what heroes do.
surtur		You have made a grave mistake, Odinson.
thor		I make grave mistakes all the time. Everything seems to work out.
skurge		Heimdall was an idiot. This job should have made him rich. Now, the job ain't easy, but it does have its benefits. The Bi-Frost gives me access to everything the Nine Realms have to offer. I mean it's all mine for the taking.  Behold...my stuff.
thor		Heimdall, come on.
asgardian woman		Skurge, is that important?
skurge		You girls are in for a treat.
skurge		Girls!  Well well, look who decided to pop in. Thanks for scaring away my company and drenching my workplace in brains.
thor		Who are you?
skurge		Don't you remember? I'm Skurge.  We fought together on Vanaheim.
thor		Right.   Where's Heimdall?
skurge		That traitor. No one knows, he's a fugitive of the throne.
thor		Traitor?
skurge		Yeah, you see, Odin charged Heimdall with negligence of duty, but he disappeared before the trial. Hard to catch a guy who can see everything in the Universe.
thor		Sure.
skurge		Hold on. I'm supposed to announce your arrival.
thor		What the hell is that?
actor loki		Oh, brother. This is it.    I take my leave.
actor thor		You fool, you didn't listen!
actor loki		I'm sorry.
actor thor		Lady Sif!     Get help!
actor sif		Somebody help!
actor loki		Sorry for all I've done.
actor thor		It's all right.   Hold on.
actor loki		I'm sorry I tried to rule Earth.
actor thor		They'd be lucky to have you.
actor loki		I'm sorry about that thing with the Tesseract. I just couldn't help myself.
actor thor		I know.
actor loki		I'm a trickster.
actor thor		So mischievous.
actor loki		Sorry about that time I turned you into a frog.
actor thor		It was a wonderful joke.
odin		 Twas indeed hilarious.
actor thor		You are the savior of Asgard.
actor loki		Tell my story.
actor thor		I will.
actor loki		Build a statue for me.
actor thor		We will build a big statue for you.
actor loki		With my helmet on, with the big bendy horns.
actor thor		I will tell Father what you did here today.
actor loki		I didn't do it for him.
actor thor		Noooooo!!!
actor odin		And so Loki died of his wounds, giving his life for ours. He fought back those disgusting dark elves. He brought peace to the realm.
odin		Bravo!    Bravo! Well done.   Bravo.
thor		Father.
odin		Oh, shit.  My son! Thor has returned! Greetings my boy.
thor		It's an interesting play.    What's it called?
odin		The Tragedy of Loki of Asgard. The people wanted to commemorate him.
thor		Indeed they should.  I like that statue. A lot better looking than he was when he was alive, though. A little less weasely. Less greasy maybe.
thor		Do me a favor. Lock this in a vault so it doesn't turn into a giant monster and destroy the whole planet.
odin		So it's back to Midgard for you, is it?
thor		Nope. I've been having this reocurring dream lately. 
odin		That's just a silly dream... Signs of an overactive imagination.
thor		Possibly... but then I decide to go out there and investigate. And what do I find, but the Nine Realms completely in chaos. Enemies of Asgard assembling, plotting our demise, all while you, Odin, the protector of those Nine Realms, are sitting here in your bathrobe, eating grapes.
odin		Well, it is best to respect our neighbors' freedom.
thor		Of course, the freedom to be massacred.
odin		Yes, besides, I have been rather busy myself.
thor		Watching theatre.
odin		Board meetings, and security council meetings...
thor		You really going to make me do it?
odin		Do what?
thor		You know that nothing will stop Mjolnir as it returns to my hand.
odin		You've gone quite mad.     You'll be executed for this!
thor		Then I'll see you on the other side...brother.
loki		Alright, I yield!
skurge		Behold!   Thor..Odinson.
loki		You had one job!    Just the one.
thor		Where's Odin?
loki		You just couldn't stay away, could you? Everything was fine without you. Asgard was prospering  You've ruined everything. Ask them.
thor		Where's father?    Did you kill him?
loki		You had what you wanted, you had the independence you asked for!
loki		I swear, I left him right here.
thor		Right here on the sidewalk? Or right there, where the building that's being demolished? Great planning.
loki		How was I supposed to know? Can't see into the future. I'm not a witch.
thor		Then why do you dress like one?
loki		Hey.
thor		I can't believe you're alive. I saw you die. I mourned you, I cried for you.
loki		I'm honored.
thor		Sure.  Start figuring out where he is.
thor		She didn't dump me, you know.       I dumped her. It was a mutual dumping.
loki		This... isn't me.
thor		Loki?
thor		So earth has wizards now?
strange		The preferred term is "Master of the Mystic Arts."
thor		Alright wizard, who are you?   Why should I care?
strange		My name is Doctor Stephen Strange and I have some questions for you. Take a seat.
thor		I don't drink tea.
strange		What do you drink?
thor		Not tea.
strange		So I keep a watch list of individuals and beings from other realms that may be a threat to this world. Your adopted brother Loki is one of these beings.
thor		He's a worthy inclusion.
strange		Then why bring him here?
thor		We're looking for my father.
strange		So. If you were to tell you where Odin was, all parties concerned would promptly return to Asgard?
thor		Promptly.
thor		If you knew where he was, why didn't you call me?
thor		No, I don't have a phone, but you could have sent an electronic letter. It's called an email.
strange		Yeah, do you have a computer?
thor		No. What for?  Anyway, my father is no longer in exile. So if you could tell me where he is, I can take him home.
strange		I'm just seeing whether this incantation requires any Asgardian modifications.
thor		Will you stop doing that?
strange		I need just one strand of your hair.
thor		Let me explain something, my hair is not to be meddled wi-!
thor		We could have just walked.
thor		All right.
strange		Don't forget your umbrella.
thor		Yes.
loki		...I have been falling...for thirty minutes!
thor		Yeah of course.  Thank you very much for your help.
strange		Good luck.
loki		Handle me?     Who are you?
thor		Loki.
loki		..you think you're some kind of sorcerer? Don't think for one minute, you second-rate...
thor		Father?
odin		Look at this place. It's beautiful.
thor		Father, it's us.
odin		My sons.   I've been waiting for you.
thor		I know.    We've come to take you home.
odin		Home, yes. Your mother, she calls me. Do you hear it?
thor		Loki, lift your magic.
odin		Took me quite a while to break free from your spell. Frigga would have been proud.
thor		I know that we failed you, but we can make this right.
odin		I failed you.  It is upon us...Ragnarok.
thor		No, I've stopped Ragnarok.    I put an end to Surtur.
odin		No. It has already begun. She's coming. My life was all that held her back, but my time has come. I cannot keep her away any longer.
thor		Father, who are you talking about?
odin		The Goddess of Death.     Hela.   My first born.  Your sister.
thor		...what?
odin		Her violent appetites grew beyond my control. I couldn't stop her, so I imprisoned her. Locked her away. She draws her strength from Asgard...and once she gets there, her powers will be limitless.
thor		Whatever she is, we can stop her. We can face her together.
odin		 No we won't. I'm on a different path now. This you must face alone.
loki		Brother.
thor		This was your doing.
hela		So he's gone?  That's a shame. I would've liked to have seen that.
thor		You must be Hela.   I'm Thor, son of Odin.
hela		Really, you don't look like him.
loki		Perhaps we can reach an arrangement.
hela		You sound like him.
loki		Beg your pardon?
hela		Kneel...before your Queen.
thor		I don't think so.
hela		Darling, you have no idea what's possible.
loki		Bring us back!
thor		No!!
thor		Loki!
volstagg		Who are you!? What have you done with Thor?
hela		I'm Hela.
skurge		I'm just a janitor.
hela		You look like a smart boy with good survival instincts. How would you like a job?
lead scrapper		Are you a fighter or are you food?
thor		I'm just passing through.
lead scrapper		It is food. On your knees.
scrapper		But we've already got him.
lead scrapper		More food.
thor		Thank you.
thor		Hey!   Where are you taking me?
hela		It's come to my attention that you don't know who I am.
hogun		Whoever you are... whatever you've done, surrender now! Or we will show you know mercy.
hela		Whoever I am? Did you listen to a word I said?
hogun		This is your last warning!
hela		I thought you'd be happy to see me.
hela		Oh, I've missed this. Still, it's a shame. Good soldiers dying for nothing...all because they couldn't see the future. Sad.  Oh! Look, still alive.
hogun		Go back to whatever cave you crept out of you evil demoness!
hela		Let's go see my palace.
thor		What...the hell?
grandmaster		He's wonderful.  It is a he?
grandmaster		Yeah. I love when you come to visit 142, you bring me the best stuff.  Whenever we get to talking, Topaz, about Scrapper 142...what do I always say? "She is the..." and it starts with a B.
topaz		Trash.
grandmaster		No, not trash. Were you waiting just to call her that? It doesn't start with a "B."
topaz		Booze hag.
grandmaster		I'm so sorry. No, "best." I was thinking about "best."  Because I always say you're the best. She brought me my precious beloved Champion, you know.
topaz		You say that every time she's here.
grandmaster		What have you brought today?    Tell me.
thor		A what?
grandmaster		I need to go closer. I want a closer look at this. Can you take us closer? Thank you.
thor		Just wait a damn minute.    I'm not for sale.
grandmaster		Man.   He is a fighter.
topaz		Tell her she's dreaming.
grandmaster		For heaven's sake, transfer the units.
thor		You'll pay for this!
grandmaster		Here's what I wanna know.    Who are you?
thor		I am the God of THUNDER!!!
grandmaster		Wow. I didn't hear any thunder, but out of your fingers, was that like...sparkles?
topaz		We located your cousin.
grandmaster		Oh good!  Yeah, come on. I think you're gonna like this.
thor		Hi.
grandmaster		So...
cousin carlo		Please.   I'm sorry.
grandmaster		Carlo... I pardon you.
cousin carlo		Thank you.     Thank you.
grandmaster		You're officially pardoned...from life.
thor		Oh, my god!
grandmaster		I'm stepping in it. I'm stepping in it. Look out!
thor		 Oh, the smell.
grandmaster		What does it smell like?
topaz		Burnt toast.
grandmaster		What happened to my manners? I haven't properly introduced myself. Come on. Follow me.
thor		We're not friends, and I don't give a shit about your games! I'm going back to Asgard!
grandmaster		 One, two, three, four.
loki		There was a wormhole in space and time beneath me. At that moment, I let go.
thor		Loki!? Loki! Over here!
loki		Excuse me one second.
thor		Loki!
loki		What?   You're alive?
thor		Yes, of course I'm alive.
loki		What are you doing here?
thor		What do you mean, what am I doing? I'm stuck in this stupid chair. Where's your chair?
loki		I didn't get a chair.
thor		Get me out of this one.
loki		I can't.
thor		What?
loki		I've made friends with this man. He's called the Grandmaster.
thor		Oh, he's crazy!
loki		I've gained his favor.. The Bi- Frost brought me out here weeks ago.
thor		Weeks ago?     I just got here.
grandmaster		What are you whispering about?
thor		God of Thunder.    Tell him.
loki		I've never met this man in my life.
thor		He's my brother.
loki		Adopted.
grandmaster		Is he any kind of a fighter?
thor		You take this thing out of my neck and I'll show you.
grandmaster		Now listen to that. He's threatening me. Hey, Sparkles, here's the deal. If you wanna get back to Ass-place, Assberg...
thor		Asgard.
grandmaster		Any contender who defeats my champion, their freedom they shall win.
thor		Fine. Then point me in the direction of whoever's ass I have to kick.
grandmaster		That's what I call, contender! Direction would be this way, Lord.
thor		Loki!
korg		Hey! Take it easy man!  Just a little rock-paper-scissor joke for you. This is my very good friend over here, Miek. He's an insect and has knives for hands.
thor		You're a Kronan, aren't you?
korg		That I am.
thor		How'd you end up in here?
korg		Well, I tried to start a revolution but didn't print enough pamphlets, so hardly anyone turned up. 
thor		How did you...
korg		Yeah, no. This whole thing is a circle. But not a real circle, more like a freaky circle.
thor		This doesn't make any sense.
korg		No, nothing makes sense here. The only thing that does make sense, is that nothing makes sense.
thor		Has anyone here fought the Grandmaster's Champion?
korg		Doug has. Doug!  Oh, right, Doug's dead. That's right. Everyone who fights the Grandmaster's champion perishes.
thor		What about you? You're made of rocks.
korg		Perishable rocks.  There you go. Another one gone. Yeah, no, I just do the smaller fights, warm up the crowd and whatnot. Wait. You're not gonna face him, are you?
thor		Yes I am. Fight him, win, and get the hell out of this place.
korg		That's exactly what Doug used to say. See you later, new Doug.
hela		Does no one remember me?  Has no one been taught our history? Look at these lies. Goblets and garden parties? Peace treaties?
skurge		Odin's treasures.
hela		Fake.
hela		Fenris. My darling, what have they done to you?
thor		Odin, I bid you take your place in the halls of Valhalla...  Where the brave shall live forever. Nor shall we mourn but rejoice-
thor		What would you like me to say? You faked your own death, you stole the throne, stripped Odin of his power, stranded him on Earth... 
loki		You know, I haven't seen this Beloved Champion he talks of, but I've heard he's astonishingly savage. I've placed a large wager against you tomorrow. Don't let me down.
korg		Piss off, ghost!  He's freaking gone.
korg		Yuck! There's Still someone's hair and blood all over this. Guys, can you clean up the weapons once you finish your fight? Disgusting slobs.  Thor...wanna use a big wooden fork?
thor		No.
korg		Yeah, not really useful unless you're fighting off three vampires that were huddled together.
thor		I really wish I had my hammer.
korg		Hammer?
thor		Quite unique. It was made from this special metal from the heart of a dying star. And when I spun it really, really fast it gave me the ability to fly.
korg		You rode a hammer?
thor		No, I didn't ride the hammer.
korg		The hammer rode you on your back?
thor		No. I used to spin it really fast, and it would pull me off the...
korg		Oh my God.     The hammer pulled you off?
thor		The ground. It would pull me off the ground, up into the air, and I would fly. Every time I threw it, it would always come back to me.
korg		Sounds like you had a pretty special and intimate relationship wiht this hammer and that losing it was almost comparable to losing a loved one.
thor		That's a nice way of putting it.
thor		See her, the one that put me in here.
korg		Yeah, Scrapper 142. She's strong. And she drinks a lot. 
thor		Asgardian?
thor		Please, help me.     I need your help.
thor		Fine, then you must be a traitor or a coward because the Valkyrie are sworn to protect the throne.
valkyrie		And no one escapes this place. So you're gonna die anyway.
stan lee		Now, don't you move. My hands ain't as steady as they used to be.
thor		By Odin's beard, you shall not cut my hair... lest you feel the wrath of the might Thor.
grandmaster		Wow! Look at all of you. What a show, WHAT-A-NIGHT! Who's having fun? Please, I'm your host. Big round of applause for all of our undercard competitors... who died so gruesomely. Good sports. What a show! What a night! This is what you've come for and so have I.  I give to you...Lord of Thunder!
thor		Yes!
loki		I have to get off this planet.
grandmaster		Hey, hey, hey! Where are you going?
thor		Hey! We know each other. He's a friend from work.  Loki! Look who it is!
hulk		NO BANNER!     ONLY HULK!
thor		What are you doing?    It's me.
grandmaster		Here we go.
thor		Hey, big guy. The sun's getting real low.
loki		Yes! That's how it feels!  I'm just a huge fan of the sport.
thor		All right. Screw it.
crowd		Thunder! Thunder! Thunder!
korg		Thunder! Thunder! Thunder!
hela		What is that noise?
skurge		The common folk aren't exactly falling in line. There's a resistance trying to knock down the front gates.
hela		Tell me about yourself, Skurge.
skurge		Well, me dad was a stonemason, me mum was-
hela		 I'll just stop you there. What I meant was what is your ambition?
skurge		I just want a chance to prove myself.
hela		Recognition.  I was Odin's executioner.
hela		Skurge, where's the sword?
heimdall		Excuse me.
heimdall		You'll be safe here.
thor		Are we cool?
hulk		Like what?
thor		Like this.     Big, green, ...stupid.
hulk		Hulk always Hulk.
thor		How'd you get here?
hulk		Winning.
thor		You mean cheating? 
hulk		Quinjet.
thor		Yes.   Where is the Quinjet now?
hulk		Quinjet.
thor		Yes! I'm getting us out of here. This is a terrible, awful place. You're gonna love Asgard. It's big. It's golden. Shiny.
hulk		Hulk stay.
thor		No, no, no. My people need me to get back to Asgard. We must prevent Ragnarok.
hulk		Rag-na-ruh?
thor		The prophesied death of my home world, the end of days, it's the end of-  If you help me get back to Asgard, I can help you get back to Earth.
hulk		Earth hate Hulk.
thor		Earth loves Hulk. They love you. You're of the Avengers. One of the team, one of our friends. This is what friends do. They support each other.
hulk		You're Banner's friend.
thor		I'm not Banner's friend. I prefer you.
hulk		Banner's friend.
thor		I don't even like Banner.  "I'm into numbers and science and stuff."
hulk		Thor go. Hulk Stay.
thor		Fine. Stay here. Stupid place. It's hideous, by the way. The red, the white. Just pick a color.
hulk		Smash you.
thor		You didn't smash anything. I won that fight
hulk		I smashed you.
thor		Yeah, sure, sure.
hulk		Baby Arms.
thor		What?
hulk		Baby.
thor		Moron!   You big child.
hulk		Thor go!
thor		I am going.
hulk		Thor go again!  Thor home.
thor		That's great. Have fun.
heimdall		I see you. But you are far away.
thor		What's going on here?
heimdall		Come see for yourself.
thor		You're talking about evacuating Asgard?
heimdall		We won't last long if we stay.
thor		I'm working on it, but I don't even really know where the hell I am.
heimdall		You're on a planet surrounded by doorways. Go through one.
thor		Which one?
heimdall		The big one!
hulk		Thor sad.
thor		Shut up.
hulk		THOR SAD!!!
thor		I'm not sad, you idiot. I'm pissed off! Angry. I lost my father. I lost my hammer.
hulk		Whining and crying.   Cry like baby.
thor		You're not even listening.
hulk		Don't kick stuff.
thor		You're being a really bad friend.
hulk		You bad friend!
thor		You know what we call you?
hulk		No.
thor		We call you the stupid Avenger.
hulk		You're tiny Avenger!
thor		What, are you crazy?
hulk		Yes.
thor		You know what? Earth does hate you.
hulk		No.
thor		I'm sorry I said those things. You're not the stupid Avenger. Nobody calls you the stupid Avenger.
hulk		It's okay.
thor		You just can't go around throwing shields at people. Could have killed me.
hulk		I know. I'm sorry.     I just get so angry all the time.    Hulk always, always angry.
thor		I know. We're the same, you and I. We're just a couple of hot-headed fools.
hulk		Yeah, same. Hulk like fire, Thor like water.
thor		We're kind of both like fire.
hulk		But Hulk like real fire. Hulk like raging fire. Thor like smoldering fire.
thor		Hulk, I need you to do something for me.
hulk		Angry girl!
valkyrie		What's going on? What do you...?
thor		We need to talk.
valkyrie		No, you want to talk to me.
thor		 I need her to stay.
hulk		Stay!    Please?
valkyrie		All right. Here's the deal. I'll listen to you till this is empty.
thor		Asgard is in danger and people are dying. We need to get back there. I need your help...wow.
valkyrie		Finished. Bye.
thor		Odin is dead.
valkyrie		If Hela's back then Asgard is already lost.
thor		I'm going to stop her.
valkyrie		Alone?
thor		Nope. I'm putting together a team. It's me, you, and the big guy.
hulk		No team.   Only Hulk.
thor		It's me and you.
valkyrie		I think it's only you.
thor		Wait. Just listen. The Valkyrie are legend, elite warriors of Asgard. You are sworn to defend the throne.
valkyrie		I'm not getting dragged into another one of Odin's family squabbles.
thor		What's that supposed to mean?
valkyrie		Your sister. Her power comes from Asgard, same as yours.
thor		I agree.
valkyrie		Don't get familiar.
thor		I agree. That's why I turned down the throne. But this isn't about the crown. This is about the people. They're dying and they're you're people, too.
valkyrie		Forget it.     I have.
thor		 Okay.
valkyrie		Okay.
thor		Good. Great.
valkyrie		Great.
thor		Thank you.
valkyrie		For what?
thor		For this.
hulk		Friend Stay!
thor		All right.     Come on.
thor		Thor.
thor		Thor, son of Odin.
thor		God of Thunder.
thor		Strongest Avenger.
thor		Strongest Avenger!
thor		Damn you, Stark.  Point Break.
hulk		Friend stay!
thor		No, no, no!
hulk		Stay!
thor		Stop! Stop breaking everything!
hulk		Don't go!
hulk		No!     No, Banner!
thor		Banner. Hey, hey, hey. You all right, Banner? Sun's going down. Sun's going down. That's it, breathe. I won't hurt you. Sun's going down.
banner		...Thor?
thor		Yeah.
banner		What happened to your hair?
thor		Some creepy old man cut it off.
banner		It looks good.
thor		Thanks.
banner		Where are we? How's Nat?
thor		Nat is good, I'm sure.
banner		And what about Sokovia?
thor		Sokovia?
banner		The city, Sokovia.   Did we save it?
thor		Banner, listen.
banner		What?
thor		Sokovia. Ultron.     That was two years ago.
banner		What are you saying? I've been Hulk for two years?
thor		I'm afraid so.
banner		What the hell happened?
thor		Banner, there's something you should know...
banner		Banner.
thor		 What?
banner		Ship's log...
thor		Yeah, about that.
banner		Who's that?
thor		He kind of runs the place. You actually lived in his house.
banner		I did?
thor		Yeah. Quite a lot's happened. You and I had a fight recently.
banner		Did I win?
thor		No, I won. Easily.
banner		Doesn't sound right.
thor		Well, it's true.
grandmaster		It seems that that criminally seductive Lord of Thunder has stolen him away.
thor		Seductive GOD of Thunder.    We need to move.
banner		Oh, no. This is bad. This is really, really bad. Thor, I think I'm freaking out.
thor		No, no, no. Don't freak out. You're okay. Put these on.
banner		These are Tony's clothes.
thor		I know, come on.
banner		Is he here?
thor		No, he's not here. But listen. Just stay calm, okay? The sun's going down. The sun's getting really low. Sun's going down.
grandmaster		I'm upset! I'm very upset. You know what I like about being upset? Blame. Right now, that's the mindset that I'm in. And you know who I'm blaming?
loki		Grandmaster, I-
grandmaster		Hey! Don't interrupt me!
topaz		Here you go.
grandmaster		Why are you handing me the melt stick? He was interrupting. That's not a capital violation.  And YOUR contender.
loki		My dear friend, if you were to give me twelve hours I could bring them both back to you.
valkyrie		I can do it in two.
loki		I could do it in one.
grandmaster		You know what? I woke up this morning thinking about a public execution. But for now, I'll settle for this sweet little "who's gonna get him first?" So you're on the clock.
loki		What have you done!?
valkyrie		I don't answer to you, lackey.
loki		It's Loki. And you will answer to the Grandmaster.
valkyrie		I don't help anyone.
loki		You're a Valkyrie. I thought the Valkyrie all died gruesome deaths?
valkyrie		Choose your next words wisely.
loki		Terribly sorry. Must be a very painful memory...
thor		The sun's going down. It's getting really low. The sun's going down. It's getting real low.
banner		Would you stop saying that!?
thor		I just need you to stay calm.
banner		Calm!?   I'm on an alien planet!
thor		It's just a planet.   You've been on a planet before.
banner		Yeah!    One!
thor		Now you've been on two. That's a good thing. It's a new experience.
banner		My neurons, they're firing faster than my brain can handle the information. 
thor		Alright, well, you're back now, that's all that matters.
banner		No, it's not what matters. What I'm trying to tell you, is that if I turn into the Hulk again, Banner may never come back. And we're stranded on a planet that is designed to stress me out.
thor		We're not stranded, I'm gonna figure out a way to get us home.
banner		Thank you.
thor		Not your home, though.   Asgard.
banner		What?
thor		Listen, my people are in great danger. You and I, we have to fight this really powerful being who also happens to be my sister.
banner		Okay, that is so wrong on so many... I don't wanna fight your sister. That's a family issue.
thor		No, she's an evil being.
banner		I don't care what she is.   I'm not fighting any more beings.   I'm sick of it. I just told you. 
thor		No, no. I'm putting together the team. The Hulk is the fire.
banner		Wait, you're just using me to get to the Hulk.
thor		What?   No!
banner		It's gross. You don't care about me. You're not my friend.
thor		No! I don't even like the Hulk. He's all like... "smash, smash, smash." I prefer you.
banner		Thanks.
thor		But if I'm being honest, when it comes to fighting evil beings, he is very powerful and useful.
banner		Yeah, Banner's powerful and useful, too.
thor		Is he though?
banner		How many PhDs does Hulk have? Zero. How many PhDs does Banner have? Seven.
thor		Fine, you don't have to fight anyone. But we're in danger here, so we have to move.
banner		What are you doing with that?
thor		I need a disguise.    I'm a fugitive.
banner		I need a disguise.
thor		You are the disguise.
banner		I'll be Tony Stark.
thor		What?
banner		Yeah.   Tony and the gypsy.
thor		No, no you're not Tony.    You're Bruce Banner.
banner		Then why did you dress me up like Tony?
thor		Because you were naked.
banner		Okay, I'll give you that.
thor		What are you doing?    Stop doing that!
banner		Tony wears his pants super tight!
thor		Why are you being so weird?
banner		I don't know. Maybe the fact that I was trapped for two years inside of a monster made me a little weird.
thor		Hey. It's okay. You're good. Calm down. Come on. Listen, we're gonna go to Asgard and you're not gonna have to think about the Hulk ever again. All right?
banner		All right.
thor		This is bad. Banner!     Banner!
valkyrie		Hi.
thor		I was gonna do that.
valkyrie		Yeah, well, I did it first.
thor		That's good. What are you doing here?
valkyrie		What are you doing here?   I thought you were leaving.
thor		I got sidetracked.
valkyrie		What's with the...
thor		It's my disguise.
valkyrie		But I can see your face.
thor		 Your hair looks nice. I like what you did with it. Change it? Washed it maybe?
banner		 What are those things on her eyes? Are those the people that she's killed? She's so beautiful and strong...
valkyrie		Who is this guy?
thor		He's a friend.
banner		Who?    Me?    I'm Bruce.
valkyrie		I feel like I know you.
banner		I feel like I know you too.
valkyrie		Look, I've spent years in a haze trying to forget my past. Sakaaar seemed like the best place to drink and forget and to die one day.
thor		I was thinking that you drink too much, and that probably was going to kill you.
valkyrie		I don't plan to stop drinking, but I don't want to forget. I can't turn away anymore. So, if I'm donna to die, well... it may as well be driving my sword through the heart of that murderous hag.
thor		Good.
valkyrie		Yeah. So I'm saying that I wanna be on the team. Has it got a name?
thor		Yeah, it's called the Revengers.
valkyrie		Revengers?
thor		Because I'm getting revenge. You're getting revenge.  Do you want revenge?
banner		I'm undecided.
thor		Okay.
valkyrie		Also, I've got a peace offering.
lokie		Surprise.
loki		OW!
thor		Just had to be sure.
loki		Hello, Bruce.
banner		So, last time I saw you, you were trying to kill everybody. Where are you at these days?
loki		It varies from moment to moment.
thor		Is that... a Dragonfang?
valkyrie		It is.
thor		My God. This is the famed sword of the Valkyrie.
valkyrie		Sakaar and Asgard are about as far apart as any two known systems. Our best bet is a wormhole just outside the city limits.
thor		Nope. We're going through that one.
valkyrie		The Devil's Anus?
banner		Wait, whose anus are we going through?
thor		For the record, I didn't know it was called that when I picked it.
banner		That looks like a collapsing neutron star inside of an Einstein- Rosen Bridge.
valkyrie		We need another ship.   That would tear mine to pieces.
thor		She's right. We need one that can withstand the geodetic strain from the singularity.
banner		And has an offline power steering system that could also function without the on-board computer.
valkyrie		And we need one with cup holders, because we're gonna die. So, drinks!
banner		Do I know you? I feel like I know you.
valkyrie		I feel like I know you, too. It's weird.
thor		 What do you say, doctor? Uncharted metagalactic travel through a volatile cosmic gateway. Talk about an adventure.
valkyrie		There are one or two ships, absolute top-of-the-line models--
loki		I don't mean to impose, but the Grandmaster has a great many ships. I may eve have stolen the access codes to his security system.
valkyrie		And suddenly you're overcome with an urge to do the right thing.
loki		Heavens, no. I've run out of favor with the Grandmaster. 
thor		You're telling us you can get us access into the garage without setting off any alarms?
loki		Yes, brother. I can.
banner		Okay, can I just... A quick FYI, I was just talking to him just a couple minutes ago and he was totally ready to kill any of us.
valkyrie		He did try to kill me.
thor		Yes, me too. On many, many occasions. There was one time when we were children, he transformed himself into a snake, and he knows that I love snakes. So, I went to pick up the snake to admire it and he transformed back into himself and he was like, "Yeah, it's me!" And he stabbed me. We were eight at the time.
valkyrie		If we're boosting a ship, we're gonna need to draw some guards away from the palace.
loki		Why not set the beast loose?
thor		Shut up.
valkyrie		You guys have a beast?
thor		No, there's no beast. He's just being stupid. We're going to start a revolution.
banner		Revolution?
thor		I'll explain later.
valkyrie		Who's this guy again?
thor		I'll explain later.
korg		Is that some sort of protoplasm, all the stuff that's coming out of you? Or are they eggs? Looks like eggs.
valkyrie		I'm looking for Korg.
korg		Who's asking? I know you're asking. Is anyone else asking, or is it just you?
valkyrie		The Lord of Thunder sends his best.
korg		My revolution has begun...
grandmaster		Revolution? How did this happen?
topaz		Don't know. But the Arena's mainframe for the Obedience Disks have been deactivated and the slaves have armed themselves.
grandmaster		Oh! I don't like that word!
topaz		Mainframe?
grandmaster		No. Why would I not like "mainframe?" No, the "S" word.
topaz		Sorry, the "prisoners with jobs" have armed themselves.
grandmaster		Okay, that's better.
thor		Hey, so listen, we should talk.
loki		I disagree. Open communication was never our family's forte.
thor		You have no idea. I've had quite the revelation since we spoke last.
loki		Hi!
thor		Thought you didn't want to talk about it?
loki		Here's the thing. I'm probably better off staying here on Sakaar.
thor		That's exactly what I was thinking.
loki		...Did you just agree with me?
thor		This place is perfect for you. It's savage, chaotic, lawless. Brother, you're going to do GREAT here.
loki		Do you truly think so little of me?
thor		Loki, I thought the world of you. I thought we were gonna fight side by side forever. But, at the end of the day, you're you, I'm me... 
loki		It's probably for the best that we never see one another again.
thor		That's what you always wanted.
loki		What?
thor		"Get Help."
loki		No.
thor		Come on, you love it.
loki		I hate it.
thor		It's great. IT works every time.
loki		It's humiliating.
thor		Do you have a better plan?
loki		No.
thor		We're doing it.
loki		We are not doing "Get Help."
thor		Get help! Please! My brother, he's dying.
loki		I still hate it. It's humiliating.
thor		Not for me, it's not.
loki		 The Commodore.
loki		I know I've betrayed you many times before, but this time it's truly nothing personal. The reward for your capture will set me up nicely.
thor		Never one for sentiment, were you?
loki		Easier to let it burn.
thor		I agree.
thor		All right, I can figure this out. It's just another spaceship.
grandmaster		Loyal Sakaarians, Lord of Thunder has stolen my ship and my favorite champion. Sakaarians, take to the skies. Bring him down. Do not let him leave this planet.
banner		Good shot!
valkyrie		I hope that you're tougher than you look.
banner		Why?
banner		Shouldn't we be shooting back or something?
thor		Yes, we should.  Where are the guns on this ship?
valkyrie		Grandmaster uses it for his good times, orgies and stuff.
banner		Did she just say the Grandmaster uses it for orgies?
thor		Yeah. Don't touch anything.
thor		No!
thor		Get inside!
valkyrie		In a minute!
thor		I should probably go and help.
banner		No. I don't know how to fly one of these.
thor		You're a scientist.   Use one of your PhDs.
banner		None of them are for flying alien spaceships!
banner		Okay, come on. There's gotta be a gun on this thing. That looks like a gun.
banner		Yeah!
valkyrie		Guys, we're coming up on the Devil's Anus!
korg		There she is. Our ticket out of here. Hey, what's this?
loki		Thank you.
korg		Hey man, we're about to jump on that ginormous spaceship. You wanna come?
loki		You do seem like you're in desperate need of leadership.
korg		Why thank you.
valkyrie		Here we go!
skurge		Asgardians, some misguided soul has stolen the Bifrost sword. Tell us where it is, or there will be consequences. Bad ones.
hela		You.
asgardian citizens		No! Stop!
hela		Well?   Executioner?
asgardian man		Wait! I know where the sword is.
valkyrie		 I never thought I'd be back here.
banner		I thought it'd be nicer. I mean, not that it's not nice. It's just, it's on fire.
valkyrie		Here, up here in the mountains.
thor		Okay, drop me off at the palace and I'll draw her away.
valkyrie		And get yourself killed?
thor		The people trapped down there are all that matters. While I'm dealing with Hela, I need you two to help get everyone off Asgard.
banner		How the hell are we supposed to do that?
thor		I have a man on the ground.
heimdall		Asgard. She's here.
thor		Now the ship has guns.
valkyrie		I'll take it from here.
thor		I found this in the armory.
valkyrie		"Your majesty." Don't die.    You know what I mean.
heimdall		We must keep moving! Go to the Bifrost!
thor		Sister.
hela		You're still alive.
thor		I love what you've done with the place. Redecorating, I see.
hela		It seems our father's solution to every problem was to cover it up.
thor		Or to cast it out.  He told you you were worthy.   He said the same thing to me.
hela		You see, you never knew him, not at his best. 
thor		I understand why you're angry. And you are my sister, and technically have a claim to the throne. And believe me, I would love for someone else to rule. But it can't be you. You're just...the worst.
hela		Okay, get up. You're in my seat.
thor		 You know, Father once told me that a wise king never seeks out war.
hela		But must always be ready for it.
heimdall		Go back!
hela		To be honest, I expected more.
skurge		Heimdall!    The sword!
heimdall		We must cross now! To Bi-Frost!
hela		Here's the difference between us. I'm Odin's firstborn, the rightful heir, the savior of Asgard.  And you're nothing.
valkyrie		This stupid dog won't die!
banner		Everything's going to be okay. I got this. You want to know who I am?
valkyrie		What the hell are you talking about?
banner		You'll see.
hela		You see? No one's going anywhere.  I'll get that sword even if I have to kill every single one of them to do it.
korg		Hey man.   I'm Korg.   This is Miek.
loki		Your savior is here!
hela		That little shit.
loki		Did you miss me?    Everybody on that ship, now.
heimdall		Welcome home. I saw you coming.
loki		Of course you did.
hela		A valiant effort, but you never stood a chance.
thor		She's too strong.   Without my hammer I cannot--
odin		Are you Thor, God of Hammers?
thor		It's too late. She's already taken Asgard.
odin		Asgard is not a place. Never has been.  This could be Asgard. It is wherever our people stand. And right now those people need you.
thor		I'm not as strong as you.
odin		No.   You're stronger.
hela		Tell me brother, what were you the God of again...?
thor		You're late.
loki		You're missing an eye.
valkyrie		This isn't over.
thor		I think we should disband the Revengers.
loki		Hit her with a lightning blast.
thor		I just hit her with the biggest lightning blast in the history of lightning. It did nothing.
valkyrie		We need to hold her off until everybody's on board.
thor		It won't end there. The longer Hela's on Asgard the more powerful she grows. She'll hunt us down. We need to stop her here and now.
valkyrie		What's our move?
loki		I'm not doing "Get help."
thor		Asgard's not a place, it's a people.  Go to the vault. Surtur's crown. It's the only way.
loki		 Bold move, brother. Even for me.
thor		Shall we?
valkyrie		After you.
loki		This is madness.
thor		GO!   GO NOW!
skurge		For Asgard.
loki		With the Eternal Flame, you are reborn.
hela		Whatever game you're playing, it won't work. You can't defeat me.
thor		No, but he can.
hela		No...NO!
surtur		Tremble before me Asgard, for I am your reckoning!
valkyrie		The people are safe.     That's all that matters.
thor		We're fulfilling the prophecy.
valkyrie		I hate this prophecy.
thor		So do I, but we have no choice.
surtur		Surtur destroys Asgard, he destroys Hela so that our people can live.
thor		We need to let him finish...  No!
hulk		But...big Monster.
valkyrie		Hulk! Let's go.
hulk		Friends.
surtur		I am Asgard's doom!!
korg		The damage is not too bad. As long as the foundations are strong, we can rebuild this place. It will become a haven for all people and aliens of the universe...
thor		What have I done?
heimdall		You saved us from extinction. Asgard is not a place, it's a people.
thor		Perhaps you're not so bad after all, brother.
loki		Maybe not.
thor		Thank you, Loki.
loki		Do we have to hug now?
valkyrie		Your throne.
heimdall		So, King of Asgard.
thor		I'm not sure. Any suggestions? Miek, what's your home planet?
korg		Oh, Miek's dead. I accidentally stepped on him on the bridge, I've just felt so guilty I've been carrying him around all day...
thor		Earth it is.
loki		Do you really think it's a good idea to go back to Earth?
thor		Sure!   They love me there.
loki		Let me rephrase: Do you really think it's a good idea to bring me back to Earth?
thor		Probably not. But don't worry, brother...I've got a feeling that everything's going to work out.
****Dialogues from script :Three_Kings.txt****

troy		Are we shooting people, or what?
troy		That's what I'm asking you.
troy		I don't know the answer. That's what I'm trying to find out.
vig		Dag.
troy		"Gettin' bugged drivin' up and down the same old strip, gotta find a new place where the kids are hip, I get around --"
vig		It looked like the guy's head blew three feet into the air --
vig		I said it looked like that happened, but then we got here and he was still breathing.
vig		And when it hits the ground, his hand keeps on firing.
vig		Do you still want to sell pictures?
troy		 For twenty.
troy		You're lucky you got to see anybody shot in this war.
vig		War's been over five days, Jim, ain't gonna be much more of this.
vig		Troy's enemy, yours for twenty.
troy		Accept no substitute, this is the real thing, oh, Jesus [winces] --
vig		What's wrong?
troy		I got a really bad headache all of a sudden--
vig		No free pictures, motherfucker.
archie gates		Is that what you got from this experience? A goddamn watch?
havichon		Ees a great fucking watch.
archie gates		There's 700 million in gold out there and you're fucking around with a watch?
havichon		Bon dieu de merde, that's a lot of gold, man.
archie gates		One bunker of gold and we retire from this horseshit, Hashy--
bill smithson		Gates.
archie gates		Just a second. The problem, Hash, is how do you find it?
havichon		Like one sowsan bunker out sair --
archie gates		Maybe two sowsan bunker out sair, Hash, how do you find Saddam's bullion?
bill smithson		Could I have some help over here, for Chrissakes?
archie gates		My goodness, Bill, what seems to be the problem?
bill smithson		I'm trying to do a story here and the fucking sand is blowing in my face --
archie gates		You want me to stop the sand? I can't do anything about that.
bill smithson		No, you're too busy talking about the fucking gold, which by the way makes a great story if you'd get me a goddamn lead on it --
archie gates		I think the Saddam story goes more for the jugular, journalistically speaking, I mean, he's still here beating the shit out of his country.
bill smithson		Would you just be my guide and not my fucking producer? You're my guide.
archie gates		OK, go do your celebration story, Bill.
bill smithson		You're heroes.
bill smithson		You've exorcised the ghosts of Vietnam with a clear moral imperative --
bill smithson		Where the hell are you going?
archie gates		I'll be right back.
bill smithson		I don't want you helping other reporters, goddamn it.
bill smithson		Who's getting reemed? The Shiites?
chopper pilots		'--be livin' here today because the flag still stands for freedom and they can't take that awayyyyy --'
troy		 And I'm proud I to be an American, where at least I know I'm free. And I won't forget the men who died, who gave that right to me. And I'd gladly stand up; next to you and defend her still today. Cause there ain't no doubt I love this land, God bless the U S A --
troy		Rahhhhhhhhhhhhhh.
vig		Rahhhhhhhhh.
troy		Rahhhhhhhhhhhhh.
troy		It's cool, no one's gonna hurt you --
vig		Did you rape and torture anybody in Kuwait, Abdul?
troy		You're making them all hysterical.
vig		Take your fucking rags off, take this off. No comprende English, motherfucker?
troy		What is your fucking problem, Conrad?
vig		I'm trying to git him to obey the spirit of things but he won't take his rags off.
troy		 Sir? We need you to disrobe like all the other towel heads, OK?
vig		Whoa, it's a freaky thing, Troy.
troy		There's a document in that guy's ass, Conrad.
vig		That's the freaky thing.
walter		Do you think he ate it?
troy		It wouldn't come out perfect like that if he ate it.
troy		Go get it, Private.
iraqi officer		Hasa man timal!
troy		Open it up.
vig		You only gave me one glove.
troy		I'm sorry I don't have another, but you gotta open it up. That's how the chain of command works.
vig		What the hell is that?
troy		Important enough to squeeze your cheeks for.
cathy daitch		You are a trained warrior, trained warrior, trained warrior, Jesus Christ, Colonel!
cathy daitch		 What's Bill got?
archie gates		Just the celebration story.
cathy daitch		That's it?
archie gates		That's it --
archie gates		How about you? Did you find anything?
cathy daitch		It could be another bullshit lead but I need you to help me find a guy who might have something on the gold --
archie gates		Who's the guy?
cathy daitch		Somebody Barlow, maybe in Company B--
archie gates		Barlow.
cathy daitch		Got a map out of a prisoner's head.
archie gates		Out of a prisoner's head?
cathy daitch		Or his ear, or his ass, or his dick, and they got like a fifty page full-color mini atlas of Saddam's bunkers --
archie gates		Out of a guy's dick?
general pye		This is not the way we service the media, Major. Stop her --
mp		You are in violation of code 37D, grinding Major Gates.
archie gates		You guys have no manners whatsoever --
bill smithson		I told you he was with her --
general pye		We're handling this, OK?
bill smithson		I wanted help with the gold story, and he took off on me--
archie gates		That's a lot of bullshit.
general pye		I give you a prestige job in the media war of the century and the guy feels neglected.
archie gates		I'm helping him plenty with his big celebration feature -- Where did you get this fucking star?
general horn		They made me a general, pal.
archie gates		For what? I don't even know what we did over here, but Schwartzkopf gets a book deal, you get a star, Powell gets to be fucking president--
general horn		Are you high? This is a huge win for us.
archie gates		Running the press pool's a real big win for me.
general pye		You want us to kill more Americans to occupy Iraq?
archie gates		I'm just saying it's ironic, that's all.
general horn		What the fuck is ironic?
archie gates		We got the biggest army in the world here but Iraq still has the d-bag dictator in power, but that's how the world works I guess.
general pye		Just take care of Smithson and maybe he'll hook you up to consult on movies.
general horn		It's either that or be a security guard when you retire.
archie gates		Fuck you, Ron.
general horn		I'm a general now, you can't say fuck you to me.
archie gates		OK, sir, but there's another thing I'd like to say, if you don't mind.
general horn		Go right ahead, Colonel.
archie gates		Fuuuuuck yooouuuu, Ronnnnn.
troy		You've washed your hands like a thousand times, Conrad.
vig		Lord knows what vermin live in the butt of a dune koon.
doc		Why do you let this cracker follow you around?
troy		He's a good kid.
doc		He's a wall-eyed cracker.
troy		He's got no high school, man, he's from a group home in Jackson --
doc		I don't give a shit if he's from Johannesburg. I don't want to hear dune koon or sand nigger from him or anybody.
vig		Captain uses those terms.
troy		The point is, Conrad, 'towel head' and 'camel jockey' are perfectly good substitutes.
doc		Exactly.
vig		I'm sorry, man, it's a little confusing is all.
doc		What can I do for your headache?
troy		Got any Vicadan?
doc		All gone. How about Caffergot?
troy		Excellent. Let's translate my Iraqi ass map.
troy		Van Meter's at the big pow wow?
doc		We're cool for at least three hours, but keep Walter on the door.
troy		Would you take those fucking things off?
walter		I never got to use night vision.
troy		They don't work during the day and stand outside the tent.
doc		These are definitely Saddam's bunkers near Karbala.
troy		What's inside?
doc		According to Intelligence -- Picasso, Armani, Rolex, Mercedes, Sony you name it --  Kuwait was Muslim Beverly Hills and Saddam sacked it.
vig		Man, get an awesome stereo system with like ten BOS speakers  --
troy		Silver Lexus convertible.
doc		Lexus doesn't make a convertible.
troy		Yes, they do.
doc		Infiniti has one coming.
troy		You're wrong.
doc		You can't get a car home from here anyway.
troy		If I get enough Rolexes I could buy one when I got home.
vig		One gold Rolex, I get a very fine split level outside Jackson.
troy		My one problem, see, is the risk here --
doc		What risk? We already did the risk. I signed up last year to bank some computer training--
troy		Tell me about it.
doc		Next thing I know I'm sitting here waiting to get hit by a Scud. I put my life on the line for what purpose I'm not sure, and now the good Lord puts this map in my path --
troy		He could put a land mine in your path if we try to find this place --
doc		You're safe with me.
troy		Cuz you have a galactic plutonium forcefield.
doc		I don't talk about it. But I do have a ring of Jesus fire.
troy		You have a ring of Jesus fire.
doc		I was fire baptized.
vig		I was baptized in water.
doc		I'm fire baptized.
troy		I don't even know what water baptism means.
doc		For those who understand, no explanation is necessary; for those who don't, no explanation will suffice. You can benefit from my Jesus ring if you do right by me, you got that?
troy		OK.
walter		This tent is restricted --
archie gates		Get the fuck out of my way.
walter		May day, may day --
archie gates		Good afternoon.
archie gates		Would this be the proctology tent?
doc		Yes, sir, I mean, no, sir.
archie gates		Then maybe it's the urology tent.
troy		Captain's at a staff meeting.
archie gates		That's OK, I'm not looking for a proctologist or a urologist I'm looking for Sargeant Barlow.
archie gates		You're on the path to truth when you smell shit, isn't that what they say?
vig		I don't recognize you, sir. Are you in this division?
doc		He's not in this division. He's Special Forces.
doc		He's the guy taking Bill Smithson around.
archie gates		And you would be the Three Wise Men, right, Mappy, Slappy, and Pappy --
archie gates		That leaves Cappy outside.
walter		Damn. Freeze. Do not pass. Hold it, freeze. Stop. Freeze.
vig		His name is Walter.
archie gates		Did you good soldiers present this map to Captain Van Meter?
troy		Not yet.
archie gates		Then I'll take it to him.
troy		We'll take it to him. Sir.
archie gates		It won't do either of us any good then, will it?
troy		He's our commander, sir. We'd have to tell him you took it.
archie gates		It could be nothing but a sandy love letter from one Eye-raqi to another --
troy		It's a series of bunkers near Karbala.
archie gates		Maybe.
troy		Not maybe, definitely. Recon photos match the map.
archie gates		May I look at the goddamn map?
vig		Dag.
archie gates		That's what makes Rangers badass, we get the best flashlights.
archie gates		Still looks like a series of three bunkers in three villages. A bit farther to the west.
doc		Seventy-five klicks north.
troy		Much closer to Karbala.
archie gates		Leave at dawn, back by lunch, not a big deal. Of course --
archie gates		-- there could be nothing inside but starving Arabs and stolen watches, but I think it's worth checking out, even if I have to do it with clueless reservists like you.
archie gates		I mean, I could take the map, but you could talk, it starts to become a pain in the ass for me, so we'll do the gold together.
doc		What gold?
archie gates		You don't even know what's inside these bunkers, do you?
vig		Rolexes.
archie gates		Rolexes are swell, but I'm talking about Kuwaiti bullion.
vig		You mean the little cubes you put in hot water for soup?
archie gates		No. Not the little cubes you put in hot water for soup.
troy		Gold bricks.
archie gates		5 kilos each, $50,000 in today's market.
vig		For one gold brick?
archie gates		I'm sure Mr. Hussein has divided his bricks. into many different hiding places, but just one hiding place should be easy to take, and that would be enough to get us out of our day jobs. Unless the three kings are in love with their day jobs.
vig		I don't really have a day job.
troy		What about the risk of taking a Humvee and all that --
archie gates		We do this shit all the time.
vig		What else did you do, sir?
archie gates		In Panama we went sailing in Noriega's boats.
troy		Wow.
archie gates		In Vietnam, we got a big gold Buddha, which we unfortunately dropped in a swamp by accident.
doc		What about Iraqi soldiers?
archie gates		Let's see. They had the shit bombed out them for two months, they're deserting all over the place, and they've completely surrendered to us. That's a beaten army in every sense of the word.
archie gates		You are now under my command, salute --
archie gates		What's the guy's name outside?
troy		Walter.
archie gates		Cappy.
archie gates		You will take Bill Smithson on a special mission to find the gold story, but it will be a meaningless ride that lasts all morning and takes him nowhere near Karbala, is that clear?
walter		How am I gonna get out of the company?
archie gates		Your captain will be detained by a friend of mine.
vig		Is it true you got to take an enemy ear to be Special Forces?
archie gates		No, but if you talk to anybody about this, I'll kill you.
cathy daitch		Very dashing.
cathy daitch		Would you ever stand like that?
cathy daitch		You'll get used to it. First question: did you dream as a boy you'd be commanding an infantry company in a desert war?
doc		Pull.
doc		Pull.
troy		Pull.
troy		I gave you a better arc, Doc.
doc		What are you talking about?
troy		I threw the ball in a higher arc that was easier for you to hit.
doc		Bullshit.
vig		Blacks make better receivers than quarterbacks.
troy		Stop speaking right now, Conrad.
doc		Warren Moon is an excellent quarterback.
vig		The Oilers have gone nowhere behind Warren Moon.
doc		Randall Cunningham.
troy		Don't get down in the mud with him, Doc.
vig		The Eagles will never get to the Superbowl with him.
doc		Doug Williams took the Redskins to the Superbowl and won, OK?
troy		We can all agree there are many excellent black quarterbacks.
doc		Hit it, you sorry-assed cracker --
vig		This gun's too heavy to shoot one-handed like a movie star --
archie gates		Shut the fuck up.
archie gates		When we pull up to the bunker, the approach is something called violence of action, which is standard in special operations. It means your movement is so fast and decisive that the guards are frozen and we haven't fired a single shot.
troy		Shit.
archie gates		We dropped a lot of bombs out here and we buried some guys alive --
vig		What do you mean?
archie gates		Bradleys with big plows cut through the berms and covered the trenches --
archie gates		Let's rehearse.
archie gates		We'll say the cow is the primary guard outside the bunker. We pull up fast, and stop short.
troy		Got it.
archie gates		And -- Go.
archie gates		Who's hurt?
doc		It's all cow, I think.
vig		Yeah, it's all cow.
doc		They said this was swept for mines.
archie gates		Mines are forever, Doc. They never get all of 'em.
troy		 'If you could, help me Rhonda, help help me Rhonda --'
archie gates		Did you guys see any action at all?
vig		Only night bombing on CNN, except for Troy's supercool shooting that guy in the neck--
archie gates		Is sepsis cool?
vig		What's sepsis?
doc		Infection of the blood.
archie gates		As in septic tank, because that's what happens when a bullet hits you. The lead tears in there --
archie gates		But other than a wound that blinds, paralyzes, or castrates, the worst wound I've ever seen is something called tension pneumo thorax --
doc		I heard something about that --
vig		Tension pneumo what?
archie gates		A bullet, or a blade doesn't kill you, but makes a little hole in the lung, so every time you breathe, a little air leaks into the chest cavity, which starts to fill up like a balloon. And that balloon starts to push your organs to the side, crushing your lung, your liver, your heart. Your own breathing kills you, one breath at a time -- kinda like a job you can't stand or a bad lie you once told.
doc		That's not fatal, they can stop it.
archie gates		If you know how to make another little hole in the chest to let the air out, just like you would with an overinflated tire.
troy		Can we play the Beach Boys when we go in?
doc		The goddamn Beach Boys.
troy		I'm not ashamed of liking the Beach Boys. It calms me down. Better than Mozart.
archie gates		Bach.
vig		Where's the bunker?
archie gates		It should be right --
archie gates		There.
archie gates		No -- there.
vig		We are the Army of the United States of America. We are here to protect you. Remain calm.
archie gates		Orders from President Bush, step aside.
iraqi mother		No milk. Baby milk.
archie gates		Do not panic.  Step outside --
vig		 We are here for your protection and safety.
vig		Ya'll be cool now, this is the U.S. Marines in charge here.
troy		Shit.
troy		Freeze.
friendly iraqi		I am love United States of Freedom. I am hate Saddam.
troy		Ya -- ya -- ha --
doc		Let him go.
friendly iraqi		No problem, my friend.
friendly iraqi		You look for the chemical weapon?
troy		No. We look for the gold.
archie gates		Where's the gold?
friendly iraqi		They move the gold.
doc		Kill him.
archie gates		Not yet.
troy		Kill him now.
archie gates		Where?
friendly iraqi		 This bunker. I'll take you.
child		Ma-Maa.
archie gates		Move. Out of the way.
shiite woman		Hos-pital.
shiite man		America help.
archie gates		Give them MRE's.
bill smithson		This is boring, I already did this damn story, goddamn it, where the hell is the gold?
walter		How about rare pelican migration out by the marshes?
bill smithson		What?
walter		These brave pelicans are migrating in spite of massive pollution --
bill smithson		Fuck that. Stop the bike.
doc		I'm all right, I'm cool.
archie gates		What is the art of war, because it is not for killing people, it's a stratagem to give life to many by killing the evil perpetrated by a few -- I am burning up in this goddamn suit --
archie gates		Discriminating use of violence as a last resort, and even then, carefully, surgically, that's what I learned, that's what I'm good at. But now they underestimate all this, bomb the same towns for six weeks  and still leave the scumbag dictator to starve and butcher his own people.
troy		 I don't even know what happened back there. Civilians were spitting on their own soldiers; the soldiers were shooting the civilians and ignoring us --
doc		They already surrendered to us. Now they're after Shiites.
vig		What exactly is a Shiite?
archie gates		They make up the ethnic majority but they don't have any power. When Bush pulled us out, he told them to start a civil war to bring Saddam down, and now they're getting wasted.
vig		 The civil war? How could it be the civil war?
troy		It's a war inside the same country, Conrad. That's a civil war.
archie gates		Put these on, we are now U.S. Marines.
troy		I can't do this, OK? Because I've got a family and if I shit in a bag the rest of my life cuz I got shot after the war's already over that would be pretty fucking stupid, wouldn't it?
archie gates		What is the most important thing in life?
troy		What the fuck are you talking about?
archie gates		What is it?
troy		Did you hear anything I said.
vig		Respect is the most important.
archie gates		Too dependent on other people.
doc		Money.
archie gates		Comes and goes, man.
troy		What is this bullshit?
doc		What's the most important thing?
archie gates		Necessity. That's what dictates what will happen at any given time in life. Necessity says we don't spend American lives taking out Saddam,  which leaves Saddam the necessity of taking out the Shiites so he can stay in power, which leaves us to take the gold.
troy		We could've been shot.
archie gates		Did you notice they didn't touch us?  We decimated their entire country. They're scared shitless of us. [looks at his watch] There's time to try another bunker. I say we go.
doc		Let's do it.
vig		Rock and roll.
troy		OK. And I'll be wearing fashionable kevlar. As a necessity.
bill smithson		 I'm at some goddamn marsh, all we've seen are Russian cranes.
walter		Pelicans.
bill smithson		 I think the Saddam story goes more for the jugular, journalistically speaking, Al. Let's grow some balls and do the Shiite uprising, for Christ's sake.
bill smithson		We're going north to do the Shiites.
walter		I thought the gold was the hot spot.
bill smithson		Karbala's the new hotspot, and I'm driving.
walter		Military regulations, you cannot drive.
walter		Get off the vehicle, sir.
walter		Don't make me shoot you, sir.
general horn		What the fuck are you doing?
general horn		Do you have authorization?
general horn		No.
general horn		Who gave you this?
general horn		Archie Gates gave you this? Jesus Christ, Doug, come with me.
general horn		No, you don't get to do the interview.
archie gates		Faster.
archie gates		 United States Marine Corps. Put your weapons down.
troy		Drop your weapon.
doc		Put it down.
vig		Don't make me smoke your ass, Abdul.
troy		Freeze.
archie gates		By order of the cease-fire signed in Safwan, March 3, the United States Marines hereby confiscate all material stolen by Iraq from the Emirate of Kuwait --
troy		Down.
archie gates		Never hit anyone with your pistol, Doc.
doc		Sorry about that.
iraqi captain		For wife.
archie gates		I've been divorced three times.
troy		No, newest and best has better noise reduction.
troy		Less distortion. Get down on the floor, OK?
troy		This is bad music, understand? It's bad for you.
archie gates		 Where's the gold, Captain? Tell us so we don't have to kill you.
troy		There's another room over here.
iraqi sargeant		I am just do my job, buddy.
interrogator		These Shiite. Iraq problem. United States is out now.
interrogator		We take them outside, so it don't bother you, OK, sir? Kata fanam.
archie gates		Take us to the basement.
vig		Don't start this shit again.
vig		I know ya'll Shiite gettin' yer asses whipped --  Hey, what the hell is going on here?
vig		Git on the fucking ground, Arab.
iraqi sargeant		Prisoner stay. Gabar matan.
vig		What the fuck are you talking about?
iraqi sargeant		Kinam vanir! Vanir!
vig		Goddamn it everybody calm down.
iraqi captain		It's my ass, donkey dick, Saddam will shoot me dead.
interrogator		Saddam worries more about the Shiite than the gold.
vig		 This is the United States Military.
iraqi captain		It's Saddam's gold.
interrogator		Shut up, he signed the treaty.
archie gates		Listen to me: we leave you alone to kill your Shiites, but everything you took from Kuwait, that belongs to us now, understand?
archie gates		Put it back.
doc		Why?
archie gates		Stick to the plan. The plan is for gold.
troy		Is this five kilos?
archie gates		Yeah, that's five kilos.
troy		Five, six, seven, eight, there's sixty bricks in this suitcase.
doc		Times 50K each --
troy		Three million dollars.
archie gates		Ten suitcases; sixty bricks each. That's thirty million dollars.
troy		I'm gonna get a fleet of Lexus convertibles in different colors.
doc		I told you Lexus doesn't make a convertible.
troy		I'll bet you a Lexus they do.
doc		OK, you're on for a Lexus, but it won't be a convertible.
troy		Shit.
archie gates		They didn't get it here in these bags.
doc		The tensilary strength goes to 200 pounds.
troy		The what?
doc		Tensilary strength, it's what the suitcase can hold.
archie gates		Why would you know that?
troy		He works at an airport.
doc		60 bars, 13 pounds each is like -- 800 pounds. The smaller Vuittons
archie gates		You got any more luggage here?
archie gates		It's crazy to take it all, we're not prepared for it. It's crazy not to take it all, how can we leave it?
troy		What's the shipping plan?
archie gates		I told you that's handled.
troy		How is it handled? You have to tell us now.
doc		Yeah, tell us now.
archie gates		 I've got a friend, he's in French Special Forces. He's gonna put it in barrels filled with oil and bury it. In a few weeks, he'll drive it to Yanbu --
troy		Where's Yanbu?
archie gates		It's a port in Saudi.
troy		I don't know about getting them to Baltimore, but these hat boxes ain't gonna fit in the Humvee.
archie gates		We need a trailer.
troy		OK, I'll call U-Haul in Karbala to see what they have on the lot today.
archie gates		See what you can get, Barlow.
troy		Conrad, we need a trailer --
vig		Did you get it? Troy, did you get it?
troy		Yeah, we got it.
vig		Is it a lot?
troy		Yeah, it's a lot.
troy		 'Little deuce coupe with a fiat head mill, she'll walk a Thunderbird like it's standin' still --'
troy		'She'll do a hundred and forty with the top end floored --'
troy		'She's my little deuce coupe --'
iraqi major		You take the Kuwaiti gold, yes?
archie gates		We take the Kuwaiti gold. Yes.
iraqi major		Saddam cannot keep.
archie gates		No, Saddam cannot keep.
iraqi major		Saddam have too many problem today.
archie gates		He certainly does.
iraqi major		You need help to load?
archie gates		We can do it ourselves.
iraqi major		Hazal jarat finan.
iraqi major		These man help you.
interrogator		You go away fast from this bullshit.
archie gates		Let's load up and get out of here.
troy		Lay that one flat; OK, sideways --
archie gates		This isn't gonna work.
troy		Sure it is --
iraqi major		You need a truck.
archie gates		We'll rig two carts.
troy		Let's take the truck.
archie gates		We're not taking their truck.
troy		Why not?
iraqi major		We cooperate with peace accord. Please take truck.
troy		Let's take the truck.
iraqi major		Nazaran yafit haisul.
archie gates		This has to stop.
interrogator		You get your ass kick in a war, it feel good to be strong again.
archie gates		What did you say?
iraqi major		You go now, please.
archie gates		I don't think so. I'm sure you know about the Geneva Convention, right?
interrogator		Geneva convention? You bomb my house, man.
iraqi major		That Shiite man is leader of uprising. He kill my man.
troy		Archie, let's stick to the plan, sir. The plan is for gold, right?
doc		We can help them first, then be on our way.
troy		No, we can't. It's not what we're here for.
archie gates		How much?
iraqi major		What?
archie gates		How much gold do you want to let these people come with us?
interrogator		Cannot do.
archie gates		What do you mean, cannot do? I'm offering you a lot of money.
iraqi major		Cannot let Shiite go --
interrogator		Saddam kill us.
iraqi major		Saddam kill to me if we let them go, OK? Now you go.
archie gates		Cover me.
troy		Jesus Christ, we can't save everybody.
archie gates		Are you listening? I said cover me.
archie gates		No unnecessary shots, Conrad, is that clear?
vig		Yes, sir.
archie gates		Because we know what bullets do to vital organs, don't we?
vig		Make infected pockets filled with bile, sir.
archie gates		That's right, that's what they do.
iraqi major		 U.S.A. is out of Shiite war.
archie gates		No shooting.
troy		What's happening?
archie gates		Accident. Stay cool.
troy		No.
archie gates		Cover these three.
archie gates		Doc.
doc		Down.
iraqi soldier		Kazal stan hamir in fatar.
archie gates		Put the Shiites in the Humvee.
troy		There's no room.
archie gates		Make room.
troy		What the fuck happened to necessity?
archie gates		It just changed.
troy		Not for me.
archie gates		Obey the fucking order, Barlow.
troy		This is fucked up.
doc		What if that was you?
troy		What if this was you not wearing Kevlar?
troy		Great, a fucking tank. That should send us on our way.
vig		Grenade launcher, sir.
archie gates		No. Let's get out of here.
troy		It's about fucking time.
tank iraqi		Hazal mafan.
troy		We were home free, you stupid son of a bitch.
archie gates		Stay on the road.
vig		I don't wanna get hit.
doc		Gas.
vig		Where's my mask?
archie gates		Mine.
doc		Cover your face, Conrad. Cover your mouth, man.
troy		Hey. Stop.
troy		Goddamn it.
archie gates		Don't do it, this isn't sarin. We'd be dead by now.
doc		Is it mustard?
archie gates		It's C.S.
doc		What's that?
archie gates		Tear gas times ten, but it's not lethal. Where's Barlow?
doc		I don't know.
archie gates		Does anybody see Barlow?
doc		I can't even see the truck.
vig		Look out.
archie gates		Don't move.
vig		What's going on?
doc		Get in the tunnel.
vig		Troy.
doc		You're gonna die.
archie gates		Barlow.
vig		We have to go back. We can't leave him there.
archie gates		We have to wait until it clears.
vig		You made the choice and we lost Troy --
archie gates		I had no choice.
vig		You had a choice.
archie gates		I had no fucking choice.
archie gates		I can't walk away from a crime like that and take the gold and live my life like nothing happened, and if you can, then I hope you die right now.
vig		What about Troy? What choice does he have now?
interrogator		They're taking the tank.
bill smithson		Start shooting, Paco.
walter		I don't like this, we gotta go--
walter		Hey.
bill smithson		Let me handle this.
iraqi soldier		Get dress.
troy		OK.
iraqi soldier		Get dress.
troy		I said OK.
troy		 Um. Do you speak English?
troy		 Can you -- I need --
troy		Operation Desert Storm.
troy		The big army in the desert, come on, it's an emergency.
troy		Maybe you could -- hello?
troy		Fuck.
troy		Come on, come on, come on.
darlene		 Hello?
troy		Honey, it's me.
darlene		Troy?
troy		It's me, honey.
darlene		My God, the baby's crying.
troy		I can hear her.
darlene		That's our little Krystal.
troy		How's she doing?
darlene		She hasn't been sleeping good, and Mamma had to go back to work, so I'm real, real tired, baby.
troy		I wish I was there to help, gooney- bird.
darlene		Oh, gooney-bird, when are you coming home?
troy		I'm working on that right now, baby.
darlene		I saw an ad for a computer job. You want me to call and set up an interview for my war hero?
troy		Listen, honey --
darlene		What date are you coming home?
troy		They haven't given us an exact date yet. Listen --
darlene		I'm henpecking you.
troy		No, you're not.
darlene		I'm lonely and tired and most of all, I miss you.
troy		I miss you, too.
darlene		What was that?
troy		The wall just exploded.
darlene		I thought the war was over, honey.
troy		It is and it isn't, babe. Can you do me a favor and call the C.O. on base?
darlene		You want me to call the C.O.?
troy		Tell him I'm stuck in a bunker near 223 north outside Karbala --
darlene		What do you mean 'stuck'? I thought the war was over.
troy		I'm gonna be fine, honey, I don't want you to worry, I tried to do something for the family,  and I want you to know --
darlene		Know what?
troy		That I love you.
darlene		What's happening, Troy?
troy		Tell Krystal --
darlene		Troy?
troy		Tell Krystal I'm a rich man and if things work out she'll be taken care of no matter what --
darlene		What are you talking about?
troy		Gotta go, gooney-bird, I love you--
darlene		Troy?
bill smithson		Spirits are high and the music is soaring as these young troops celebrate --
bill smithson		I'm being held captive by Iraqi troops in the gritty city of Karbala, where Shiite --
paco		You said gritty city again.
bill smithson		OK, we'll go again.
paco		What about Private Wogoman, Bill?
bill smithson		Let's lay a few of these down first. In three, two, and, I'm being held captive in a gritty suburb of Karbala, where Shiite fundamentalists are rising up --
iraqi captain		You better not let that fucking reporter see you doing this.
iraqi sargeant		Hey, that's the CNN guy.
iraqi captain		Wow. He's much shorter in person.
iraqi captain		Get them out of here now.
bill smithson		At least let me keep the tape.
walter		Could I have my helmet, please?
walter		Helmet. On my head.
general horn		Who's missing?
general horn		You don't know where one of your own fucking aides is?
general horn		Check all the radio transmissions.
general horn		I'm not breaking your balls, Doug, I want to find these guys.
interrogator		 What is your rank, bro?
troy		Master sargeant.
interrogator		Your company?
troy		B Company, infantry, United States Army.
interrogator		My main man. Tell me something, OK? What is problem with Michael Jackson?
troy		What do you mean?
interrogator		The King of Pop. 'I'm bad, I'm bad, you know it --'
troy		Yeah, Michael Jackson.
interrogator		He is fahking the small boys, man.
troy		What are you talking about?
interrogator		He come to Egypt with the small boys. I see picture in newspaper, always he is with the small boys in the hotel window. Hello with the white glove. I am King of Pop in my hotel with the small boys. No girls. Just the boys.
troy		He likes kids.
interrogator		Yeah, he like to fahk them up the ass.
troy		Bullshit.
interrogator		You are the blind bullshit, my main man.  It is so obvious he like the small boy so he all the time travel with them.
troy		Fine.
interrogator		And if it really true? You say --
troy		I say it's sick.
interrogator		That's because you got a sick country, bro, you got no respect for the children. That's why you bomb them over here, right?
troy		I don't think so.
interrogator		Michael Jackson is Pop King of sick fahking country.
troy		Wrong.
interrogator		Bullshit wrong, dude. A black man make the skin white and the hair straight. You know why?
troy		No.
interrogator		Your sick fahking country make the black man hate hisself, just like you hate the Arab and the children you bomb.
troy		I don't hate children.
interrogator		Do they care, buddy?
troy		Does who care?
interrogator		Do your army care about the Shiite children? Do they come to help?
troy		No, they're not coming.
interrogator		 That seemed like too much volts. You got to build it up slow.
interrogator		Just figure it out.
interrogator		Are they coming to help the Shiite?
troy		No.
interrogator		Tell the truth, dudesky. Save us the big bummer.
interrogator		Does it hurt?
interrogator		I ask you question, bro.
troy		Yes, it hurts.
interrogator		You bomb my family. Do you know that?
interrogator		You blow up my home. The whole street. My wife is crush by big fahking block of concrete. She lose her legs, bro, and she got nice legs, too. Those legs cut off now.
troy		 That's horrible.
interrogator		What?
troy		 I said, that's horrible.
interrogator		Oh, my God, buddy. I didn't even told you the horrible part yet.
interrogator		My son was kill in his bed. Did you heard that, dude?
troy		Yes.
interrogator		He is one years old. He is asleeping with his toy doll when. the bomb come. You see that guy over there?  He lose his daughter same way: big USA bomb.
troy		I have a daughter.
interrogator		Very nice for you, bro. She is safe in Ohio without the bombs and concrete and all this shit--
troy		Krystal.
interrogator		What makes you decide to tell me about Krystal, my main man?
troy		Because we're both fathers.
interrogator		I'm not a father no more, dude, remember? My son is dead now.
doc		I'm OK. I'm cool. I'm a survivor.
vig		Is that guy dead? Where you gonna put him?
shiite cleric		A shrine.
vig		What kind of shrine ya'll got?
shiite cleric		Shrine that wash 700 year of sin.
vig		Hey, that's a pretty good shrine, right, Doc?
vig		I'm sorry I hit you, man. I was scared for Troy, I don't want nothing to happen to him, he's my friend. Doc? Come on, man, I know you was comin' to help me --
vig		Maybe we got kicked out of the ring of Jesus fire, on account of stealing.
doc		That's not how it works.
vig		How does it work?
doc		I take care of what Jesus puts in front of me. That's what we did with the gold.
vig		What about now?
doc		I'm gonna see.
archie gates		How you doing, Conrad?
vig		I'm good to go, chief.
archie gates		Let's check the suitcases.
archie gates		That leaves 92 suitcases, five bars each --
archie gates		23 million dollars. Not bad for a disaster, provided we can find Barlow, get back before dark and not get busted.
archie gates		It was my choice today. So you can head back if you want. I'll find Barlow myself.
doc		What about the gold?
archie gates		Take what you can carry. Try to find a vehicle. Bury what you have outside camp. Be careful about it.
vig		I want to find Troy.
doc		I'm in.
archie gates		OK, where does that leave us? We don't have any water, we're dehydrated. You got a radio here?
archie gates		How is she?
doc		How -- is -- your -- little girl?
vig		Broken -- arms. Girl.
vig		What's b-school? Is that like terrorist training?
doc		Business school, Conrad.
archie gates		You got a radio?
archie gates		Where's Barlow?
archie gates		Where would they take him?
doc		Where's that?
archie gates		Take us there.
archie gates		We'll walk until we find some.
archie gates		With what? We don't have a radio.
archie gates		We can't do that.
archie gates		We're not supposed to be involved with Shiites. We killed Iraqi soldiers. We broke the peace- accord.
archie gates		They'd find out, we'd go to jail.
archie gates		You're wrong.
archie gates		We need to find our man. How much do you want to take us there?
archie gates		That's too much.
vig		Give it to him. We've got a lot.
archie gates		We're gonna need it to buy our way back today, so we better spend it wisely. I'll give you eight.
archie gates		Yeah, we need some guns.
archie gates		Yeah, OK, we need some fighters.
archie gates		Ten.
archie gates		That's four million dollars.
archie gates		Archie Gates.
archie gates		What?
imam		We gotta get to a refugee camp or we're dead. The camps are in Iran.
doc		We can't go to the Iranian border.
imam		Then we don't have a deal.
vig		Give me a fucking break, man.
doc		We saved your life.
imam		And we saved yours.
archie gates		We lost a man for you.
imam		What good is it if you leave us to get wasted? The big army of democracy beats the ugly dictator, saves the rich Kuwaitis, but you go to jail if you help us escape the same dictator.  You saw what happened to my wife. Look at my daughter.
archie gates		Who's going?
imam		Everyone but the priests. That's
vig		Fuck it. We'll find this place on our own.
imam		It's not on a map. You can look.
doc		Somebody else will take us.
doc		Who will take us to Oasis bunker?
imam		Jarat yalam fantam uraz.
imam		I don't think so.
vig		This is a human life we're talking about.
imam		 Tell me about it.
interrogator		I only join Saddam Hussein army to make good living for family, good car, good house, and now my son is dead.
troy		I signed up for the extra cash, too.
interrogator		We got a lot in common, dude. I got training and guns from America.
troy		Not from America.
interrogator		Oh, yeah, specialist guys come to Iraq, train us when we fight Iran.
troy		What did they train you in?
interrogator		Weapons, sabotage. Interrogation.
troy		Great.
troy		 I don't know.
interrogator		 You don't fahking know, right?! We all scahmbag soldier who get fahked, right?
troy		Right.
troy		So why are you doing this to me?
interrogator		It's my job, man, for Saddam, just like your job when you bomb my house.
troy		It's not just a job, it still matters what you do.
interrogator		Bullshit. It's all a job.
troy		It still matters what you do, what you're doing right now matters.
interrogator		Bullshit.
troy		The art of war is not for killing people, it's a stratagem to give life to many with minimum violence, minimum --
interrogator		Then why you bomb my fahking house and kill my son? Can you think how it feels inside your heart if I bomb your daughter?
troy		Worse than death --
interrogator		It feels like this --
troy		Don't --
interrogator		Everyday, inside my heart --
interrogator		Like this, like this, like this --
archie gates		Did we save anything from the Humvee?
doc		This bag.
vig		You got the same name as the tall model who does David Bowie.
doc		That's Im-an, with an 'n.' He's Imam with an 'm.'
vig		That's the same name.
doc		It's not the same name.
vig		Whatever. They're both attractive names.
archie gates		This is the United States Army. Come out of the truck with your weapons in the air.
vig		Shit. Sorry.
archie gates		They used a lot of decoys to throw off our bombers.
doc		Where are we gonna get a vehicle?
imam		I know a place that's full of deserters. Maybe they got something.
shiite		America!
shiite		Freedom! Thank you to America!
archie gates		We don't have any food.
doc		Where'd you get these animals from?
imam		 Kishan tramai jahal?
imam		This is for you, my friend, to eat if you are hungry.
archie gates		No, thank you.
imam		They're not barbarians, they're starving.
doc		I'm getting really dizzy, man.
archie gates		We need water.
archie gates		Radio?
friendly iraqi		No radio.
archie gates		No radio, no water, but yes CNN.
archie gates		Not exactly.
archie gates		Would you explain to these gentlemen that we need a vehicle of some kind?
doc		Could I ask a question?
doc		Does Lexus make this model?
doc		Exactly what I said.
archie gates		Listen. We use these cars to go fight Saddam soldiers.
doc		What's so funny?
doc		What do you mean, cannot take? We kicked Saddam's ass. We definitely take.
archie gates		We are the United States military.
imam		You're three guys with a bunch of Shiites and no Humvee.
imam		He says the Americans have many tanks, many airplanes. We have nothing.
archie gates		We will rise up together.
imam		Jihala vamat.
archie gates		Rise up together.
archie gates		Look at us. Working together. Many races, many nations. Tell him, Doc.
doc		We are united.
archie gates		United. George Bush wants YOU --
doc		To stand up for yourself.
archie gates		He wants YOU --
doc		You.
vig		Praise Jesus.
archie gates		Make the fight for freedom on your own.
doc		Oh, yes, you can.
vig		Go, baby, go.
archie gates		Then America will follow.
imam		Jahal yaqat.
doc		Jahal yaqat, brothers.
archie gates		God bless America, and God bless a free Iraq.
archie gates		What do you say now, my friend?
friendly iraqi		Cannot give car.
archie gates		Then I guess we'll have to buy them.
vig		Judas Priest will pump you, Doc --
doc		I already had it with the Beach Boys today.
vig		One song.
archie gates		We get our man, we come back to pick up the gold --
imam		And my people.
archie gates		My gold isn't here, and I mean all of it, your people will not survive.
imam		I understand.
archie gates		OK. Let's load and go.
vig		Wait a second, I want to talk about this plan some more --
archie gates		We're going to drive in and get Troy, exactly like we discussed.
vig		I have a bad feeling like we're gonna get wasted.
archie gates		You're scared. It's good to be scared when there's guns around.
doc		I'm cool. I'm all right.
troy		Your son wouldn't be dead if Saddam didn't invade Kuwait.
troy		Who's got the sick country?
interrogator		Maybe Saddam is very crazy, right? And then you are crazy to bomb all of Iraq.
troy		Too much bombing is crazy, but not saving Kuwait.
interrogator		You come here to save Kuwait people?
troy		Yes.
interrogator		Really?  Jahaza fan.
interrogator		Lots of people in trouble around this world, my man. You don't fight no fahking war for them.
troy		You invaded another country. You can't do that.
interrogator		Why not, dude?
troy		It makes the world crazy. You got to keep it stable.
interrogator		For what? Your pick up truck?
troy		No, for stability. Stabilize the region.
interrogator		This is your fahking stability, my main man.
vig		Splinter.
shiite		Come on.
vig		Go straight, go straight --
interrogator		Are you feeling stable enough for more?
doc		Stop shooting, what's the matter with you?
vig		Shit.
vig		Jesus God, I don't wanna get hit, please Jesus, watch over me --
interrogator		It's OK, buddy, we are just talking now --
archie gates		Let's go.
archie gates		Come on.
vig		You gotta be my disguise, Mr. Shiite, cuz they need my help over there --
tough iraqi		Let's go back and get them.
tough iraqi		There's a chopper, we can do it.
tough iraqi		They killed your families, you fucking cowards.
archie gates		We're gonna get out of here alive, just do what I say, do you hear me?
archie gates		Step, throw, one-two -- I'm gonna give it a five second fuse. That gives you two steps out the door.
archie gates		Wait --
vig		God help me.
archie gates		Go.
archie gates		OK.  Shorter fuse this time.
archie gates		We're not done. Check every Iraqi here.
troy		 Where's Conrad?
archie gates		Don't let your guard down.
archie gates		Stay there, don't move.
imam		Jakar yizam ut naral --
troy		How are we getting back?
doc		We got the Rolls.
troy		You got a Rolls?
archie gates		It's been a busy day.
troy		Hey. That's a convertible.
archie gates		Keep your fucking guard up.
troy		Is that leather interior?
doc		I think he's in shock.
troy		It's a fucking Infiniti convertible, isn't it?
doc		Yes.
troy		OK. So I owe you a car. I'm not in shock.
archie gates		We can talk about cars later, OK?
troy		Freeze --
imam		Take it easy.
troy		Who is this guy?
archie gates		He's with us.
troy		You're the guy with the little girl.
imam		That's right.
troy		What are you doing here?
archie gates		He helped us find you.
troy		All right. You're all right.
troy		How's your girl?
imam		She's safe. For the moment.
troy		All right. Excellent. How can we help?
doc		Calm down, man.
troy		I'm calm. Don't I look calm?
imam		We had a deal to get us to the border, but we need more vehicles for these people.
troy		We're gonna work it out. We can do it. We have to work it out.
doc		I'm not sure how. This is a lot of people.
troy		OK, you choose who we take. You tell the others it's not convenient, they'll have to die.
doc		Take it easy, man.
troy		You think I don't know what I'm saying. I know what I'm saying. We're gonna do more than steal, that's what I'm saying. We're gonna help these people out.
imam		This guy was worth saving.
archie gates		He's a soldier.
vig		You made it.
vig		I thought that was you. Yeah.
archie gates		Cover him.
archie gates		Lock it down. Shoot anything that moves.
imam		 Haza janav yasat.
vig		You made it, man --
troy		Help him.
vig		What happened to the Jesus fire, Doc?
doc		It's around you right now, man, it works on this side or the other side.
vig		You never told me that part. I guess I could go to one of them shrines that erase the bad you did --
troy		We made the right choice today, Conrad.
vig		We did good, right?
troy		We made the right choice.
doc		Dear Lord watch over this man, help him if you can. Our father who art in heaven --
troy		Help.
doc		-- hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done --
archie gates		Goddamn it.
vig		Do you still want to sell pictures?
troy		 For twenty.
vig		War's been over five days, ain't gonna be any more of this, Jim.
troy		You're lucky you got to see anybody shot in this war.
vig		It's Troy's enemy, yours for twenty.
archie gates		I've been waiting 18 years to get that right.
troy		He's got no family.
archie gates		We're his family now.
doc		He wanted to go to one of those shrines.
imam		Kajatar in Iran. We can take him.
archie gates		Good. Take him.
archie gates		Air pressure will build up about every fifteen minutes. Release the valve, close it up again.
troy		How long can I keep doing this?
archie gates		Maybe four hours, if you're not bleeding too bad inside.
troy		I'm really thirsty.
doc		There's no water anywhere.
imam		 I got you hooked up if you want to call your man.
archie gates		 Tar Baby, this is Brer Rabbit, do you read me?
doc		We're gonna be court-martialed.
archie gates		No, we're not.
archie gates		 Tar Baby, this is Brer Rabbit, are you reading this?
walter		 This is Tar Baby, come in.
walter		 About two clicks outside camp.
walter		 Right.
walter		I think so -- who handles the briar patch?
walter		Oh, OK, and the Tar Baby goes to the briar patch if everything's OK, right?
walter		Shit, I'm sorry, sir, I don't remember how the code goes --
archie gates		Six personnel trucks and a Humvee.
walter		Wow. That's a tall order for a secret operation, sir.
archie gates		Talk to my friend Hash. Each driver will get 100K.
walter		Did you say 100K?
archie gates		Roger. Brer Rabbit at 239 North. Add one medavac pack to the order, and dump the reporter.
walter		Roger. Give me two hours.
general horn		Narrow it down to what sounds like Archie Gates and a Humvee.
general horn		I want a direction, we're not gonna comb the whole goddamn desert --
private		This is from Barlow's C.O. at Fort Bragg, something with his wife.
general horn		 Fort Bragg? I'll be damned.
bill smithson		Where the hell is he going now?
cathy daitch		I say we keep watching the General.
havichon		Quelle gonzesse, Archie, you got yourself shot.
archie gates		Those better be words of sympathy.
walter		Watcha doing out here, Troy?
troy		Protecting the free peoples of the world, Walter, you know how it is.
walter		We better get you fixed up to go home to the land of the brave.
troy		Give me that penicillin, baby.
havichon		Where ees bullion at, my man?
archie gates		Bullion ees buried. I'll show you after we get these people to the border.
havichon		Iranian border?
archie gates		Part of the deal.
havichon		C'est super, Archie, you got yourself a pain in the ass mission of mercy.
walter		Sorry I fucked up the code, sir.
archie gates		It means we gotta move. They might be coming for us.
havichon		What are you seenking?
archie gates		I see an opening we can walk through. But it's not wide enough for a truck.
archie gates		We'll walk them to the border. The Iranians will take them. We'll walk back to the trucks and get out of here.
archie gates		Make a close group.
imam		 Jihad yamat -- yamat.
doc		Let the air out.
troy		It's not the air, I don't know what it is --
doc		Stay back.
troy		I'm all right. I'm just dizzy or something --
archie gates		Double time.
troy		Wait.
archie gates		Let them get over the border.
troy		Let them get over, wait --
troy		I have to reach this --
archie gates		Put his cuffs in front.
troy		Look what's happening.
troy		Cut my cuffs --
doc		He's gonna die.
archie gates		Goddamn it, Ron, give him medical attention, don't let him die --
general horn		We are not involved in the Shiite problem, do you understand me? You are AWOL, you are a fugitive, you are under arrest.
archie gates		Cut his cuffs.
archie gates		We got the gold.
general horn		What?
archie gates		We got the Kuwaiti bullion.
general horn		Bullshit.
archie gates		Pull that barrel.
general horn		Pull it.
general horn		How much do you have?
archie gates		4 tons.
general horn		Where's it at?
troy		Get them over first.
archie gates		They helped us get it, Ron. I made a deal, and that's soldier's honor. You can't fuck them now.
archie gates		You can return this gold, be a big hero, get another star maybe.
general horn		Let's go, Doug.
general horn		Who's in charge here?
general horn		We have to talk about this situation.
bill smithson		In a morbid tableau these men have recovered some of the gold bullion stolen from Kuwait --
cathy daitch		--in violation of American policy, saved over a hundred Shiite refugees while recovering stolen Kuwaiti gold --
general horn		Turn that damn camera off.
bill smithson		That's a 75 thousand dollar camera --
general horn		What the fuck are they doing here?
sargeant		I thought they were authorized --
general horn		They are not fucking authorized, for Christ's sake --
general horn		Haven't I taken care of you, dammit?
cathy daitch		I'm gonna get that tape back.
general horn		You are under arrest. You are going to be court-martialed. And you will show us where the bullion is right now.
****Dialogues from script :Three_Kings_(Spoils_of_War).txt****

writer's first draft		JULY 26th, 1995
president bush		...This act of naked aggression must be checked.  The United States, along with coalition forces from the Middle East, have drawn a line in the sand.  There is only one way for this situation to be satisfactorily resolved.  The belligerent forces from the Republic of Iraq must be removed from Kuwait, be it by choice, or by force...
jaeger		At-at-at-at-at.  At-at-at-at-at.
epps		What are you doing?
jaeger		A headache?
jaeger		Okay.
epps		Knock it off!
jaeger		I told you, I'm shooting Iraqis.
epps		No you're not.
jaeger		Blow me.
wes		People were suffering in Afganistan, and we didn't do anything.
jaeger		Spanish wasn't hard enough?
jaeger		 For real?  A treasure?
jaeger		There might be.
jaeger		I could.
wes		Jaeger?
jaeger		What?
jaeger		Like I said; so?
wes		Jaeger?
bush		Just two hours ago, Allied air forces began an attack on military targets in Iraq and Kuwait.  These attacks continue as I speak...Our objectives are clear. Saddam Hussein's forces will leave Kuwait.  The legitimate government of Kuwait will be restored to its rightful place, and Kuwait will once again be free.
jaeger		At-at-at-at-at.
jaeger		At-at-at-at-at.
jaeger		OH MY GOD!
epps		What!?  What!?
epps		Go on, man.
wes		Paper.
wes		What's it say?
jaeger		You think?
jaeger		Woods.
jager		I don't know.  A map map.
woods		A map map.
jaeger		The photos.
epps		A casual one.
wes		What?
jaeger		Wait.  Wait.
jaeger		Yes!
jaeger		Roger that.
wes		Oh, God.
wes		What?
jaeger		Hey, Wes, what kind of treasure you figure these people buried?
epps		Invest it.
jaeger		Oh, that's fun.
wes		What's that?
jaeger		Wh-what do you think--
epps		TAKE THE GODDAMN BINOCULARS!
wes		Oh, God!
wes		Oh, Jesus!
wes		What are we going to do?
jaeger		They'll shoot us!
jaeger		Yeah!  Yeah!
wes		I think I'm going to throw up.  I am. I'm going to toss.
wes		They stopped.
epps		Wha...
epps		Shoot them!
jaeger		Steady it out!
epps		Damn it!
wes		Shoot...shoot!
wes		SHOOT!
wes		I thought we were dead.
epps		She okay?
epps		Let's go.
epps		What?
jaeger		...I know.
epps		Get off him.
jaeger		We leave it.
jaeger		Who?  Who's going to take it.  We mark the location with the navicom, we can come right back to this spot.
jaeger		Who's he kidding?  He wants it as bad as we do.  We're going to be fat, Epps.  As soon as we get back to Saudivillie you and me are going to--
jaeger		I got that...sir.
epps		You can catch up.
wes		Not much chance of that.  Jaeger's an idiot.
epps		He's not so--
wes		I'm just talking.
jaeger		Can't even slow up for me.  Wasn't for me they wouldn't even be here.  I'm the one that found the map.  Should have just come by myself.  Should've.  Shouldn't even cut them in.  Shouldn't.
jaeger		Epps...
epps		What!?
jaeger		Mine.
epps		What?
jaeger		Mine.  Land mine!
jaeger		I heard it click.
jaeger		I heard it.
jaeger		Oh, God!  Oh God!
epps		Just be cool.
epps		Just relax.
jaeger		Where you going?
wes		Should have blown already.  Delayed fuse, that's Vietnam stuff.
jaeger		Epps...
epps		There's a way.
jaeger		Epps...
epps		 We've got rope?
wes		For climbing.
epps		Break it out.
jaeger		My leg is falling asleep.
epps		It's not falling asleep.  You've only been standing there for three minutes.
epps		You're going to be fine.
jaeger		You're not going to let me die, are you!? Don't let me die!
epps		You just go when I say go.
epps		Ready?
wes		Yeah.
epps		GO!
wes		The map okay?
wes		How long we going to keep this up.
wes		It better be.
jaeger		The map.
jaeger		Just figure it's my map, I ought to hang on to it.
epps		Quiet!
wes		Gunfire.
epps		Don't!
wes		What is it?
jaeger		So?
wes		We have to do something.
epps		There's nothing we can do.
epps		 I don't want to see people killed any more than you.  But we try to help out we die, and all we do is die.
jaeger		X marks the spot.
epps		Stay low.
epps		Just stay down.
jaeger		 They're going to kill us!
epps		They can't shoot us in here.
epps		So we wait.
jaeger		If they land--
wes		Missile!
epps		Move!
jaeger		Epps!
jaeger		Oh, God...
wes		You down?
jaeger		Yeah, we're down.
epps		Nothing.
epps		I heard!
wes		There's nothing down there.
epps		What are you doing?
epps		Get up and dig.
wes		What are you doing...?  What the hell are you doing down there?
epps		It's giving.
jaeger		Jesus Christ!
jaeger		Is it dead?
epps		Yeah, Bwana, you got it.
wes		What is it?  What'd you find?
jaeger		IT'S GOLD!
wes		Gold...
epps		Wes!
jaeger		Wait.
epps		What?
wes		You ready?
epps		 All right.  I'll go up, then you send up the gold and--
epps		Jesus, Jaeger.
wes		What are you doing?  You ready?
epps		Okay!
epps		What about it?
epps		Maybe I do.
epps		Then get up and do something about it.
jager		What the hell?
epps		Get off him.
epps		Get off him!
epps		Stop it!
wes		You don't know he isn't.
wes		We're at war.
jaeger		We don't need to do this.  We got the gold, all right?  Let's just get out of here.
epps		No.
epps		We should head Northeast.
wes		You've got an awful lot of orders in you. Always giving orders.
wes		What if I do?
epps		 Murder, or a combat action?  It's hard to tell them apart?
jaeger		Wes...Wes!
epps		The navicom!
jaeger		How!?
jaeger		Forget Wes.
epps		We can't just leave him.
jaeger		Wes is dead!
jaeger		No.
jaeger		No.
epps		We'll lie.
jaeger		Sit down, Epps.
epps		Is it all right if I stand up?
epps		Sure.
jaeger		What?  Yeah.
epps		Yeah.
jaeger		Sorry.
jaeger		Wonder how the war's going?
jaeger		Getting cold.
epps		No!
jaeger		Look.
jaeger		Epps.
jaeger		Well?
epps		That's if the war is even still going on. Way things were shaping up it's probably long over.
jaeger		Probably.
epps		Hellooooo--
jaeger		What are we going to do?
jaeger		And then what?
epps		Shoot them!
epps		An Iraqi?
epps		Nothing.
jaeger		What do we do?
jaeger		Look!
jaeger		Jesus!  How many of them are there?
epps		I don't know!
epps		...Wes...?
jaeger		You were shot.  We were standing right there, you were shot!
wes		In the flack jacket.  Still like getting hit in the back with a baseball bat. Took the air right out of me, but I was just unconscious for awhile.  'Course, you didn't stick around to find that out. You left me for dead.
epps		We thought--
wes		YOU LEFT ME FOR DEAD!
epps		Wes--
epps		So you can give us away?
wes		Stop them!
jaeger		They coming?
jaeger		We lost them!
epps		We go this way.
wes		The gold; give it to me.
epps		It's like I said; you don't really know lieutenant John Epps very well, do you?
jaeger		The...the gold...
jaeger		When did you make the switch?
jaeger		But...
epps		You shouldn't think about things like that.  It'll just make you crazy.
jaeger		Well?
jaeger		Epps.
epps		Yeah.
epps		Thanks.
jaeger		Epps?
epps		What?
jaeger		Still am.  There's more gold than I thought, and since there's only two of us now...  Where should I go?
epps		I don't know.
epps		I'd go to Australia.  Lot of land, not many people.  I think after this I'd like to quit people for awhile.  And the girls go crazy for brothers down there.
jaeger		Really?
jaeger		Okay.  See you in a minute.
jaeger		He's not slowing.
jaeger		Epps...Epps!
driver		 Y-yes.
driver		Baghdad.
driver		This road, it leads straight to Kuwait.
driver		You are Americans, yes?
jaeger		Look at this.
epps		The gold!
jaeger		No!
chief justice		The way I view things you're responsible for the lives of two men:  Private First Class Wes Hanmond, and Second Lieutenant John Epps.
****Dialogues from script :Three_Men_and_a_Baby.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  2.  THREE MEN AND A BABY  FADE IN:
jack		Yes, I'm the pilot...  ... I'm not even asking for your phone number... BUSINESSMAN Isn't there a pilot whose name is Paul?
jack		 Yeah... Are you Jim? BUSINESSMAN Yeah. He hands Paul a man's purse. BUSINESSMAN Here's your cash. PAUL What about the stuff? BUSINESSMAN I don't have it. We've got problems. Too much heat. Too
businessman		I mean shut up and listen. Two guys will be waiting for you in a black T-Bird, expecting the dope. Just ignore them. It'll be delivered to you on Sunday and picked up the following Thursday, okay? PAUL But I won't be home, I'll be in the air for two weeks. BUSINESSMAN That's your problem. Make arrangements, a deal's a deal. Got it!? PAUL Got it. Jack returns. JACK  I got her phone number!   She gave me her phone number! BUSINESSMAN That's some magnificent view, isn't it? JACK It's wonderful -- Life is wonderful! The Businessman goes back to his seat and Jack grabs hold of the microphone. JACK This is your captain speaking. In honor of your victory, in honor of your beauty, and in honor of Jane, the most beautiful gymnast I have ever met. I'm going to give you a little demonstration of aviation gymnastics -- reserved only for the most important guest, hip, hip... Everyone shouts "HOORAY!" except for Paul and the
jack		God, what a woman! Paul is nervous, glancing uneasily from car to car. JACK Wanna share a cab? Paul Yeah, sure! A black Ford pulls up in front of them and its driver looks at Paul who immediately turns his back on him. JACK She's so beautiful! I've never been so in love before. Can you believe she gave me her phone number... Oh, Christ -- where is it?... Oh, no, don't tell me I lost it... It's a matter of life and death... Oh here it is -- thank God! All the while    Jack has been rambling on, a beige car on the other    side of the street has slowed down. Paul notices it.     In the beige car, a narcotics agent, GRATON, is behind the    wheel with one of his colleagues sitting beside him. GRATON They're slowing down.    Take a picture. The colleague snaps a picture of everyone who happens to be standing near the black Ford, including Jack and Paul. The black Ford pulls out. The beige car follows it. Paul observes all this out of the corner of his eye. PAUL Listen, I need a favor, I got
peter		 He's around somewhere.     Check under all the couches. Paul walks off in Jack's direction. We STAY WITH Peter, who reaches Natalie. She is talking with a very styl- ishly-dressed, tall, young man, CARL.
peter		Oh Natalie, I've been looking for you all night. CARL All night? I just saw you deep in conversation with Nicole! PETER Deep? Hell no, we were just talking shop. NATALIE Oh come on Peter, we all know what a ladies' man you are. PETER Who, me? Jack's the ladies' man, not me. You're the only lady I'm after. CARL  So tell me, how's your project coming along? I heard you're not ready yet. PETER We've still got two weeks left before the semi-finals. We'll be ready. CARL We've been ready for three days now. We're gonna kick your ass. NATALIE Their project is really incredible. PETER Oh really?   You've seen it?
natalie		 No, it's top secret but he's been telling me about it...
peter		 ... Please darling, don't move... I'll be right back, okay? I'll bring us back some champagne... He disappears with Paul. JACK You're a lifesaver, Paul. I thought I'd never get away. Rosalie's waiting for me in the living room. Isn't she terrific? PAUL Who?   Rosalie? JACK Clementine. PAUL Oh yeah, for sure, I dunno. Listen, can you do me a favor? With some difficulty, Paul follows Jack as he picks his way through the people dancing, heading in Rosalie's direction.
jack		Yeah... What kind of favor? Damn, I've got to get her a glass of champagne. PAUL Listen, I've got a little problem. I'm having a valuable package delivered to me on Sunday, but I'm not going to be home. I've got to do the Hawaii-Tahiti-Australia route, so can I have the package delivered here instead? JACK  But it's okay. Peter and Michael will be here. They'll take care of it. PAUL Will you be sure to tell them about it? JACK Absolutely.   Don't worry about a thing. PAUL It'll be delivered Sunday and picked up next Thursday, okay? JACK Delivered Sunday picked up Thursday. Got it. No problem. PAUL This is a very delicate matter, Jack. It's very important they don't tell anybody about this package. It could be very... uh, embarrassing for me, you know what I'm saying? JACK Sure. You got it.    I'll see you later...
jack		Okay, sure, not to anyone at all... Look, I'm sorry Paul, but I gotta get back to Rosalie. Now go have a good time. I'll take care of everything. PAUL Bye and thanks a lot.
jack		Don't mention it. Paul leaves. Jack finally reaches the armchair where Rosalie is sitting. He stops short, obviously disappointed. JACK Uh-oh.   Too late. Michael is sitting next to Rosalie, right next to her. They get up to dance. As he passes Jack, Michael smiles broadly. MICHAEL All's fair, old buddy... Jack watches a moment, then breaks into a wide smile. JACK  Oh my darling, oh my darling, oh my darling Clementine. Jack whirls around and heads back towards Clementine.
carl		 Terrific... time. He, too, leaves the living room and runs into Jack, who has his arm around Clementine's waist as he heads toward his bedroom with her.  5   INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT                                     5 In the kitchen Peter is straightening up. Michael joins him, dumping the ashes. Peter begins washing the glasses. PETER Where's Jack?    Did he leave? MICHAEL No, he's cuddling up with a blonde named Clementine... PETER That's not Clementine. I saw him doing his famous routine with Christie... 
michael		No, it is Clementine, the one with the tits this big... PETER Christie's got tits that big, too... MICHAEL Yeah, but he was with Christie at the beginning of the evening -- after that he was with Rosalie and then with Clementine. And since I stole Rosalie away from him... Are you following this?
peter		I'm not. Jack enters the kitchen in very high spirits, singing. JACK Nice work if you can get it, and you can get it if you try... Any scotch left? PETER Yeah, here, I just put it away. JACK Sorry I can't give you guys a hand, but I've got something cooking. PETER I thought you were leaving at dawn for South America? JACK I am, the night's still young!... It's gonna be a lively one. I'm gonna make us a little snack. He makes up a tray with sandwiches. MICHAEL So, who is it anyway -- Christie or Clementine? JACK Maxine.    Beautiful, enchanting Maxine. Peter and Michael look at one another surprised, mouthing silently, "Maxine?"
jack		Hey, Michael -- how'd it go with Rosalie? MICHAEL Well, things were going great until... JACK Your old friend Sophia appeared and dragged you into a thrilling conversation about modern art and in the meantime Rosalie took off with someone else. MICHAEL How did you know? JACK I dunno -- lucky guess... MICHAEL Well, I don't give a damn anyway, I have 24 drawings to hand in to my editor three days from now and I gotta work all night anyway... So it was all for the best. But you better not leave that Maxine's phone number lying around because when I'm done... JACK Don't worry, I'll leave you her phone number on the hall table. If she's really terrific I'll put a big 'X' next to it. 'Bye, guys -- love ya. I won't wake you tomorrow morning. See you in three weeks...
jerry		Of course, it's a piece of shit, but it's a ready piece of shit. JAY We're just going to have to buckle down, that's all. JERRY You're damn right we are. Starting now, everybody works around the clock! Everybody! We have two weeks to be ready for the semi- final selection. And we will be ready. And we will win. You want to know why we'll win? JAY Because we're gonna cheat. PETER I'll go bribe the judges! JERRY I don't think this is a joking matter, gentlemen. PETER Come on, Jerry... A SECRETARY enters. SECRETARY There's an urgent call for you, Peter. PETER I'm not in.
secretary		It's Jack -- he says it's 'super important...' Peter picks up the phone.
peter		Hi... yeah... listen, make it quick, I'm in a meeting here... yeah, a package... okay... someone'll drop it off Sunday and pick it up Thursday... No problem ... yeah... we'll put it aside, okay... no, no, we won't tell anybody about it... Is that it?... Right, we won't tell anyone... Hey -- love 'n' kisses to the Brazilian girls, vaya con dios, old buddy. Peter hangs up, laughing.    Jerry gives him a dirty look. PETER What?
peter		No shit.  'Dearest Jack, here is the fruit of our love. Take good care of her. I have to go to Europe and Japan for six months, her name is Mary. Good luck, Love, Sylvia.' MICHAEL What are we going to do with it? PETER Give it back to her mother, that's what. MICHAEL But it says she went to Europe. PETER Well, we'll see about that, d'you have her phone number? MICHAEL Whose phone number? SYLVIA The girl's... Sylvia's... MICHAEL Why the hell would I have her number? I've never even heard of this chick! PETER You mean you don't know who she is? MICHAEL No way. If I had to keep track of all Jack's girlfriends, I'd have to be a full-time secretary. PETER Well, what are we gonna do? MICHAEL Hey, look, she's waking up... Hey, look, she's crying... PETER Oh no, this can't be happening! She's not gonna start to cry now?! MICHAEL
michael		Soft stuff... I guess. PETER  Let's call Jack's mother!
peter		She lives in Miami for Christsake. She can't stop the baby crying from Miami. MICHAEL Well, just to ask her advice... PETER No, he said not to tell anyone... MICHAEL But this is an emergency! PETER No! No way! You know what a pain that woman is -- she'll be on the next plane here to move in with us... MICHAEL Maybe I should call my mother... PETER No, please -- leave the mothers out of this, okay?! It's only four days. We should be able to handle that, besides you know the rule around here: it's fine to have a woman over once in a while, but... Michael finishes the sentence in unison with him. PETER AND MICHAEL ... never for more than one night at a time! PETER And that includes mothers! Peter steps over the basket and heads towards the elevator. MICHAEL Where are you going?! PETER I'm going to the store to buy some baby food. MICHAEL What am I supposed to do while you're gone? PETER Pick her up and hold her.
michael		 Whaddya mean, pick her up? I've never held a baby -- I'll drop her!
store clerk		Depends on what your pediatrician recommends. PETER Oh right, the pediatrician... But which one sells the most? STORE CLERK  This kind. PETER Oh, so this is the best kind?
store clerk		It's the cheapest. PETER Then it's the worst kind? STORE CLERK They're all good, sir. PETER  Oh, okay, well I'll take this kind then. STORE CLERK That kind doesn't have any milk in it.
peter		Oh, I see, there's milk with no milk in it? STORE CLERK Some babies are allergic to milk.
peter		So what's the stuff that no babies are allergic to? STORE CLERK Soy formula. PETER Oh, okay, I'll take the soy formula.
store clerk		 Is she teething? PETER Teething? WOMAN #1 Does she drool? Does she cry all night long? Does she chew on her fists? Does she put everything into her mouth? She acts out her words. PETER I know she can't talk. WOMAN #2
manager		This package came for you... Oh! What a cute little baby! Is it yours?
michael		No, it's not me, I mean she's not mine... MANAGER Oh, so it's Peter's? MICHAEL No, no, it's Jack's, I mean it's not Jack's, it's... someone loaned it to us, I mean someone... MANAGER And what's the little girl's name? MICHAEL Mary. MANAGER Ooh, what a pwetty wittle name, Mary! I didn't know you had a baby... MICHAEL Yeah, well, I have to put her to bed now. MANAGER You have to put her to bed?    Where's Mary's mommy? MICHAEL She's... she's not here.   She'll be back soon. Michael starts to close the door.    She pushes it back open and holds out the package. MANAGER Oh here, this just came for you. They just dropped it off. Can I hold her for a second? MICHAEL Well, like, y'see... she doesn't like to be held by strangers... The apartment Manager has already given Michael the package and grabbed Mary. She covers her with kisses. Mary smiles. Michael absent-mindedly looks at the package.
manager		She loves to be held by strangers! Hey, she's soaking wet hmm, no I think it's number 2. Want me to give you a hand changing her?
michael		Oh no, don't worry, I'm used to it.  Well, so long, Mrs. Razzolini. MANAGER 'Bye, Mary, I'll come back to visit.
peter		To figure out how old she is so we know what to feed her, that's why. Peter attempts to look into Mary's mouth but she squirms. MICHAEL Do you look on top or bottom? PETER How do I know? MICHAEL Try feeling with your finger. Peter slides his finger over Mary's gums. PETER I can't feel anything -- I'll give her the stuff for newborns and hope she's not allergic to it. Peter starts off toward the kitchen, Michael follows. PETER And then we'll    have to  see if she's allergic    to iron,  to soy or to milk --    you can't  imagine how much stuff    they can  be allergic to! MICHAEL She's soaking wet -- did you buy any diapers? PETER Diapers? MICHAEL
peter		Go ahead... No, not on the towels, they're all covered with crap... Michael lays Mary down right on the couch. Peter vigor- ously undoes the tape, and the whole PLASTIC lining RIPS apart. PETER ... What the hell is this friggin' mess? Oh, man, this is unbelievable! To think, they bombard us day and night with their goddamn TV commercials! And will you look at this junk? This stuff is pure shit -- You tape it closed, it sags, you undo the tape: bingo -- the whole goddamn thing falls apart! MICHAEL  Oh shit! Now she's pissing. Look at the couch. The sneaky little bitch was just waiting for me to get the diaper off, then whammo... Mary gives them a big smile. PETER I happen to like my furniture. I'm going out to get some real diapers.  You can clean the couch up in the meantime. He exits, slamming the door.
peter		 Hey, hey, hey, I'll work round the clock all weekend long... I swear, Jerry, I am not lying to you...
michael		 ... Mr. Oxman? Hello, Mr. Oxman?
michael		She could have at least given us a phone number or the name of someone to contact... PUNK #1  I don't get it. Didn't they tell you we were gonna be here today?
michael		Sure they told us! So what? That doesn't make the last four days any less hellish than they were! PETER Well, anyway, they're here now, that's all that matters! Peter turns and walks toward the basket. PETER The next bottle's in 45 minutes. I made it already. It's in the basket. PUNK #1 Bottle?   Whadda ya mean, bottle? MICHAEL About an hour after her bottle, she starts yawning. Put her to bed right away or it's pure hell for the next three hours, at least that's what we've noticed. Peter has returned with the basket. The Punks look at the baby, their eyes wide with disbelief. PUNK #1 What the hell is that?   A baby? PETER  No, it's a very short teenager. Of course it's a baby! Now listen carefully: I'm giving you a can of the milk she's been getting. She loves it, and more importantly,
michael		You bet that's the plan! We're not keeping her one more second. PUNK #1 Okay, if that's the plan... He passes the basket to Punk #2 PUNK #1 ... Here, hold this. Okay, so long! They start to leave, pressing the elevator button.
peter		 Oh shit, I don't have it on me... But I'll call you. Okay, so long! PETER & MICHAEL So long! The elevator has arrived.    The Punks quickly slip inside it with the basket. Michael closes the door. Peter plops down in the armchair by the front door. PETER Aah, relief at last!    Good riddance! MICHAEL You said it! Now maybe I can get some work done. He disappears in the direction of his room. Peter is sitting    on something hard. He pulls it out from under him, it's    a package. He looks at it, casually reading: "Care     of Jack Collins." He tosses it to the side. Suddenly,     it dawns on him. He leaps up, grabs the package and    runs into Michael's room.
michael		But did the cops see the dope? PETER No, it's right here.  He takes out the package. MICHAEL Shit! PETER We'll get twenty years if the cops find this on us! Climb down the fire escape and hide it... anywhere! Michael takes the package, opens the window and starts to climb out it when Peter stops him. PETER Hey, whatever you do,   don't lose the goddamn dope, we   gotta be able to return it to   those dealers or we're dead. Those    guys are serious. MICHAEL Don't worry. He starts down the fire escape, then stops and turns back. MICHAEL Oh, by the way, I put some water up to boil for her bottle. Michael disappears. Peter picks up Mary, grabs his  wal- let and leaves the room. When he gets to the hall,  he discovers that Cop #1 has joined Cop #2, to whom he is whispering something. Peter holds his license out  for them to see. PETER Here's my license. COP #1 I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to remain in the apartment. The narcotics squad will be arriving any moment now. They want to ask you a few questions. PETER Narcotics squad? What do they want with me? I don't even use aspirin! 
michael		Did you change her? PETER No, she's soaking wet.
michael		Okay, I'll do it. Michael puts down his bag of groceries, takes Mary from Peter and disappears with the box of diapers. In his room, he lays Mary down on his bed and starts undressing her.
michael		Okey-dokey, honeybunch, it's time to go beddy-bye now... We're gonna take a nice long nappy-wappy...
peter		 Sure.   This is Jack Collins. AGENT #1 Oh yeah?   Now that's interesting. Michael has laid Mary down for a nap in her basket, observed by the five cops. He now sits down, cheerful and bubbling over with enthusiasm. MICHAEL So! Can I get you something to drink? Agent #1 totally ignores him. AGENT #1 So, who's the baby belong to? PETER It's Jack's daughter. AGENT #1 And why are you two taking care of her? PETER Because her mother's in Europe for six months, and since Jack had to be away for two weeks, I took my vacation to take care of her, I love kids. MICHAEL Yeah, Peter and I just love kids! AGENT #1 Now that's interesting. Well, we'll be seeing each other again soon, in fact very soon. In the
michael		Come back anytime, gentlemen. You're always welcome here. We have no particular plans to leave New York in the near future, so don't worry about us now. 'Bye now. Once the cops are gone, Michael races back to the living room. Peter has collapsed into his armchair.
peter		 I diapered the dope on her right in front of the cop and he never noticed a thing! PETER I told the cops we were taking care of her. You realize we're now stuck with the kid till Jack
peter		You're going now? MICHAEL Yeah, but don't worry about it, I'll be back before it's time for her next bottle. She's asleep now. PETER Terrific, just terrific! Jerry just called: I have to go to the office right now. MICHAEL Well, call him back. Tell him you'll come later. PETER There's no way. I can't, he's suicidal. Why don't you call Oxman and tell him you'll be there in a few hours. MICHAEL You're crazy. Oxman is leaving in an hour. If I don't meet him before then, I blow my 15,000 dollar contract. PETER Oh shit, I can't take this anymore! MICHAEL Look, maybe we could pawn her off on Mrs. Razzolini, just for a couple of hours -- she's crazy about her! PETER Good idea!    Let's go.
michael		Wait -- I hear someone... I'll go see... Peter waits with the basket.   Michael tiptoes to the corner of the corridor.
peter		Bullshit, it's a trick. MICHAEL You think so?    Really?
peter		They just said that to put us off guard. They saw the condition this apartment's in. PETER  They know the punks were here looking for the dope and that they probably didn't find it. So that means we've still got it. MICHAEL But he said the investigation was closed. PETER Okay, let's just see how closed it is. I'll go downstairs. You watch out the window and see if I'm being tailed.
peter		We'll have to be very careful.
punk		Hi! Doin' a little shopping, huh? How's your place -- not too much damage, I hope. MICHAEL What do you guys want? PUNK We want the dope. Tomorrow. MICHAEL And we want to give it to you. But the cops are tailing us nonstop. Matter of fact, there's one right behind us now... PUNK That's your problem, man. Figure out a way to shake 'em. Either we safely get the dope tomorrow, or you, your friend and the kid'll get this.  We'll call you tonight. He runs off, disappearing into the darkness. From the slit-open grocery bag milk flows out onto the sidewalk. Michael is shaking all over. Standing about twenty yards away, Graton hasn't missed a thing.
graton		... My snitch told me the gang hasn't gotten the dope back yet, but they will soon. They made contact with the two guys tonight ... No, no, they don't know I'm tailing them. These jerks are going to fall right into my hands...
michael		All right, Jack. Why don't we start at the very beginning. The very day you left for your vacation... JACK Hey, will you please stop talking like Mr. Rogers? It's getting on my nerves. PETER  His nerves! Ha. Ha. Ha. His nerves! Michael, his nerves! You wanna talk about nerves! Then just shut up and listen. It so happens we don't want a kid here either, but when someone dumps one on us, we take goddamn care of it. MICHAEL Yeah, we take goddam care of it. PETER We haven't had a decent night's sleep in two weeks. Michael's probably going to lose a $15,000 contract... MICHAEL Peter couldn't leave. Jerry almost jumped out the window. It's lucky they even made it to the finals! JACK What? PETER First, we've got the    narcs on our ass, then there's the    drug gang threatening to carve    us up. Then bottles... bottles...    every three hours, bottles. MICHAEL And diapers. Have you ever tried to do diapers?
peter		'La Paz, Bolivia...' He calls from ... 'I'm onto something hot.' He says. 'Did the package get there?' He says. You asshole!
michael		And the day they wrecked the apartment, Peter came home and couldn't find Mary. I've never seen him in tears like that bef... PETER  Never mind about that. Look, Jack, you got us into this mess, and you're going to help us get out of it. JACK What are you guys talking about? What narcs? What gang? And who's that fucking baby? PETER For your information, the 'fucking' baby's name is Mary. And if I were you, I'd watch what I said about her... because she just so happens to be your daughter! JACK What?? MICHAEL And it just so happens, we've got a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, even if she's yours! Peter and Michael exit, slamming the door.
peter		What's the problem? GRATON You guys must think you're pretty smart, don't ya?  Holy shit! The diaper! Graton starts running like crazy back to the fountain. He rummages like a sick dog all around the spot where Michael had been lying. Suddenly he dashes toward the trash can and dumps out its contents, throwing the garbage around like a lunatic.
graton		The goddam diaper! What a jerk, what a goddam schmuck I am! Peter, Michael, Jack and the 10 plainclothes detectives watch Graton going bananas. MICHAEL  I think that guy needs a vacation. JACK He should try South America. PETER Yeah, I hear it's nice there this time of year.
michael		Sylvia -- She wanted to know how Mary was doing. JACK What? Jesus Christ, Michael, why didn't you let me talk to her!? MICHAEL She would have just hung up on you again. The important thing is she knows Mary's fine. JACK You jerk! You should've said she was terrible, sick as hell! Practically on death's door!  What's with him? The kid's doing really great!
jack		... Yeah... A little girl, Mary... SCREAMING coming over the phone. JACK ... I'd love you to see her. In fact, I was gonna bring her down tomorrow... today?... Great, I think there's a flight in three hours. I'll be at your place by two. See you real soon! He hangs up gleefully, rubbing his hands together.
jack		Really, by hand? MICHAEL  I gotta get going, I'll miss my plane...
michael		I am! PETER How 'bout Jack?
michael		On his way to Miami. PETER Oh, yeah. He's got a lot of nerve! Leaving us with the kid again... MICHAEL No, he took Mary to his mother's, she couldn't wait to see her. He's gonna try to unload her on her till Sylvia gets back. I made her four bott... PETER  Of course not! What, are you crazy? I'm relieved! Thank God she's out of here! MICHAEL I made her four bott... PETER
michael		 Four bottles for the goddam trip. There, I finally got it out.
peter		 What do you want? JACK Nothing, nothing. PETER Don't go into my room, she's asleep. JACK Yeah, but the nanny, Mrs. Bretsaws, she wants to see her.
peter		No, damn it, no! You're gonna wake her up! It already took me an hour to sing her to sleep... JACK Yeah, but she wants to see her. PETER All right, I'll go explain the situation. JACK  Wanna bet she's out of here in ten minutes slamming the door behind her? They tiptoe over to the living room door and eavesdrop.
peter		Oh, yeah?   How do you figure that? MRS. BRETSAWS Shouldn't I be discussing all this with the father? PETER Well, listen, Mrs. Fretsaw, umm... Brainsore... MRS. BRETSAWS Bretsaws, Mrs. Bretsaws. PETER Right... Bratsnot, lemme tell you something. With a child you always know who the mother is, but the father -- that's another kettle of fish. So don't give me that bullshit, okay? MRS. BRETSAWS Very well. I won't discuss it any further with you. Will you please show me where the kitchen and the bathroom are? PETER What for? MRS. BRETSAWS So I can make you a list of the things we need. PETER What do you mean, make you a list? -- Don't you do the shopping yourself? MRS. BRETSAWS No shopping or laundry or housekeeping. I am a professional nanny. PETER We have plenty of everything. MRS. BRETSAWS Do you have a sufficient amount of fruit and vegetables for the child? PETER She only eats milk and cereal.
peter		Oh that's bullshit. You don't feed a baby like an adult. MRS. BRETSAWS  I knew you'd say something like that, you jerk! MRS.    BRETSAWS Fine. Anything you     say, sir. Let me just remind    you that I have my diploma and that    medicine is a serious matter. PETER Do you know the song that goes 'Medicine's a whore and the pharmacist is her pimp'? MRS. BRETSAWS No, I don't. We must listen to different music. Personally I'm very fond of opera.
peter		Mrs. Breakballs, if you don't get out of here right this minute I'm gonna punch you in the nose! This is my home, now get out!
peter		Not a    chance! I'm not doing the night    shift. I absolutely refuse. I have    too much work to catch up on for    the competition. JACK Well, needless to say I refuse, too!
michael		Listen to me, you selfish bastards! My shift is eight hours in a row. No way I'm gonna do nights too. After 6 P.M. she can scream all she wants, I don't give a shit. PETER You know, Jack, you're a real slime ball! We give you the easiest shift: the morning. She's always in great shape in the morning, isn't she? We've got to work like crazy to save our jobs and you have the nerve to refuse nights. Goddamit, she's your daughter. Are you that horny? JACK  Hey, horny yourself! I don't give a shit. I don't need you guys. I'll find some other way to do it. And I won't take the New York-Washington shuttle! He exits, furious.
jack		 Oh, hi... Nah, nothing's wrong. PAUL What were you doing in the boss's office? JACK I was asking to do the New York- Washington shuttle for a few months. PAUL Oh, and he said 'no,' huh?
jack		 As a matter of fact, he said 'yes.' Paul backs up against the wall, protecting his face with his arms. Jack leaves, disgusted. Paul watches him go, totally confused.
michael		Coochie, coochie, coo... woo, woo, woo... bippity, boppity boo... Peter comes rushing into the apartment and runs toward his room. He stops short in the corridor -- he hears Mary's laughter and Michael's coochie-coo's. Noiselessly he tiptoes over to the living room door and listens, troubled. Then he walks away and shouts, as though he were just coming out of his room. PETER Hi, Michael, I just came back to get a file I forgot...
peter		 Okay, that's it. Into the kitchen. He exits, furious. Peter and Jack follow after him. Fuming, they file one after the other down the corridor past the stunned Brunette in her T-shirt who was waiting
michael		I'm not a punching bag!   You assholes! JACK If I can't bring a girl back here anymore, just say so. And I'm gone. I'm outta here. With Mary. PETER You can bring whoever you want as long as they speak softly like everyone else! MICHAEL One thing I know: I can't goddamn wait till Sylvia gets back! PETER Yeah, you can say that again! JACK And again, and again, and again... Meanwhile, the Brunette has put her clothes back on and gathered up her belongings. Now she enters the kitchen. BRUNETTE Sorry to disturb you guys, but I'm splitting. I didn't come here to be a bedwarmer. 'Bye. JACK 
jay's wife		So what's it made of? In the b.g., the BABY starts CRYING again. PETER Umm, it's made with whipped cream and loads of nipples on top -- I mean, loads of... raspberries ... I'll be right back...
jack		That's not fair -- let's take Mary out there... MICHAEL And the hell with it.
jack		 Who's her mother, anyway? PETER She's in Europe, she'll be back in a few days. CARL Does she always cry like that? MICHAEL No, it's only because she's teething, she's usually very sweet... The guests remain silent. CAROLINE
jerry		What if you just put her back to bed? NATALIE Right -- she's just throwing a temper tantrum, put her to bed... PETER We already tried...
jack		It's her teeth... NATALIE  Oh, nothing, nothing -- I was just trying to liven up the
carl		 You motherfucker, get out of here! Get out of my house right now or I'll kick the shit out
jack		Stop it, Peter. Give her to me, I'll put her to bed... PETER  Hey, Caroline, I think we should
jerry's wife		Well, the atmosphere wasn't exactly festive... JERRY Sorry about the cake, Mike... It looks great! MICHAEL Oh, never mind, don't worry... Good night... Jerry and his Wife exit. Michael is left standing there with his cake. Jack comes in, full of beans. JACK Well, she's asleep at last! We sang in har... Hey, where is everybody? MICHAEL Gone. Can you make a little room for me on the table to put the... JACK You mean they're all gone? MICHAEL Yeah, all of 'em, hey, can you make a little room for me to... JACK  Peter! Peter, goddamit, get out here! Peter comes back in with Jack. JACK They're all gone!
peter		Who gives a shit, they're all jerks anyway. MICHAEL Hey, could you make a little room for me on the table so I can... JACK It's because of the kid.     They can't stand kids. PETER I can't stand kids either but that's not a reason to leave! Dipshits, they're all a bunch of dipshits, every one of 'em. MICHAEL Oh, fuck it -- I'm sitting down. He sits down on a chair with the cake on his lap. JACK And did    you hear Natalie: 'She's throwing    a temper tantrum, just put her    to bed.' What a pain-in- the-ass    that broad is! PETER  Hey, you're the pain-in-the-ass! First you dump a baby on us, then you scare everyone away from the party, then... JACK I scared    everyone aw... Just cut the    crap, will you? My whole life is    diapers, shuttles and bottles.     I do the graveyard shift, I'm the    one who never gets any sleep.     I... PETER Listen, we all have two full-time jobs! That's for sure! MICHAEL And what about me? I'm a prisoner in this house all day long, forget about chasing ass, I haven't gotten laid in six months. When the hell is your friggin' Sylvia gonna come back? 
jack		She's been gone for six months and four days. PETER If she's not back by the end of next week, I'm kicking her kid out! MICHAEL You better give your goddam Sylvia hell for this! JACK Don't worry, she's gonna get it but good! PETER And you can tell her we have a lot better things to do with our lives than wipe a baby's ass, goddamn it! He exits. So does Jack. Michael is buried under the three-tiered cake, unable to see around it. MICHAEL Do you guys want some cake?  Guys?
peter		 Fine, fine, she's doing great... She's getting her back teeth in lately, it's been a bit rough... SYLVIA Can I see her?
peter		Oh, yeah, sure, she's in there... They both enter the living room. Mary stares at Sylvia. When she spots Mary, Sylvia suddenly breaks down in tears. Peter is dumbfounded. SYLVIA I don't believe how much she's grown! Recovering, wiping away her tears, she walks over to the playpen. SYLVIA Hello, Mary, hello my darling... She picks her up, hugs her tightly, showers kisses on her. MARY LAUGHS. Sylvia starts crying again. SYLVIA How beautiful she is... Her hair has grown... Look how much she changed, I missed it all. I missed her so much! Peter, in a kind of daze, stares at Sylvia. Without looking at Peter, she dries her eyes and tries to stop crying. SYLVIA I wanted to make life difficult for Jack but I never thought I'd miss her so much... PETER  Oh, yeah... make life difficult for Jack...
sylvia		Is he here? PETER What?
sylvia		Is Jack here? PETER  Oh, yeah, yeah, I'll go get him... He exits like a sleepwalker and goes straight into Michael's room. The latter is asleep.
sylvia		 Do you want me to take her? PETER No, I have to burp her first. With dexterity, he places Mary face down on his shoulder and walks around in the kitchen, patting her on the back.
jack		 Yeah, sure... Michael bustles about. Sylvia's gaze comes to rest on the crib which stands imposingly in the middle of the living room. Music boxes, little booties and stuffed animals are hanging from the bars, and a pretty white tulle frames the crib.
michael		You'll have to come back and get the crib later. SYLVIA Yeah...
sylvia		Yeah, I bet... Actually, that was kind of the point... But I'm the one who really got screwed... She starts to cry again.
jack		Don't cry, c'mon... you're taking her back now, it's great... SYLVIA  Okay, well, thanks again -- 'Bye! PETER, MICHAEL AND JACK
peter		Oh shit -- I forgot to explain about the cereal! JACK She'll figure it out by herself... MICHAEL Yeah, she'll manage... JACK Now it's back to the good life for us! MICHAEL Sleeping late! Different women every night! I can't wait! JACK Forget about the New York-Washington shuttle! I'm off to Caracas! PETER And I'm gonna be able to get back to work, so Carl better watch it -- I'm gonna slaughter that son-of-a-bitch! First with this goddam competition... and then with Natalie. MICHAEL And I've got six months' worth of sex to catch up on with Cathy, Nora, Frances, Susan, Barbra... They have entered the elevator. The doors close. They come out of the elevator, in front of their apartment. MICHAEL ...Christie, Paula, Sheila, Lisa, Kimberly, Rhonda, Rebecca, Louisa...
michael		They won!    They won! BLONDE Who won? MICHAEL Peter.     He won the competition! BLONDE Great!     Who's Peter?
graton		Hi... JACK  Oh yeah, I see... JACK So, shall we go for a walk?
jack		And you know what, it's not even like they wanted us to believe it -- it might have been us who wanted to believe it... But let's face it, nobody comes out of our rib... GRATON  But wait -- the baby's gone...
michael		 It doesn't knock me out at all... MICHAEL Is there any jam left? PETER Do. Silence. PETER You eatig here todight? JACK
jack		Sylvia doing okay? YOUNG MAN I don't know -- I'm a med student. I'm just babysitting. I only met her a couple hours ago. JACK Oh, I see... Silence. The Young Man sits down at the table and immerses himself in his books. Mary doesn't look up from her pack of cigarettes anymore. JACK Listen, on second thought, I don't think I'll wait for her. Just give her this when she gets back, okay? And this is for the baby. Jack hands the bouquet and the rabbit to the Young Man, who plops them down on a chair. YOUNG MAN Sure, no problem. He immerses himself again in his books. Jack heads toward the door, then turns around. JACK Shouldn't the baby be in bed by now? YOUNG MAN Yeah... I don't know... When I put her to bed she cries so I just let her stay up... JACK Don't you have any tights to put on her legs? YOUNG MAN Tights?... Well, it's pretty hot in here anyway...
jack		No, I'm not going anywhere anymore, I've had it with traveling. I quit. MICHAEL C'mon, I'll call you a cab, you've still got time. JACK Don't you call anybody. MICHAEL But the plane's s'posed to take off in half an hour -- They won't have time to replace you. This is serious -- you'll lose your job and you won't be able to pay your share of the apartment anymore... you... Jack takes off his pilot's jacket and throws it aside. JACK I'll be a dishwasher, I'll live in a flophouse. MICHAEL What the hell happened? JACK I'm not going, I told you; I'm not going ever again. I'm sick and tired of traveling, sick and tired of broads. They all have the same asses and I can't seem to love them anyway. I can't take another hotel room, and swimming pools and trendy restaurants! I want to know
michael		 Jack!   Jack, c'mere for Chrissake! SYLVIA 'Cause my place is tiny, y'know, and my schedule's insane -- and I just finished four days of posing and we ended up every day at...
sylvia		Oh, so the flowers and the rabbit were from you... JACK I could have strangled that guy... SYLVIA I mean it, I can't cope anymore. My parents and I don't talk to each other and anyway they live in Texas, and the baby needs to get out to the park... MICHAEL Yeah, tell me about it! Finding time to take her to the park every day is a real bitch! SYLVIA And I have to work, I need the money to survive and anyway I love my job... A distraught Peter, bare-chested and in jeans, comes running in from his room. SYLVIA But to work I've gotta have a babysitter, and to have a babysitter I need to work, so I run around all day...  It's just 'cause I haven't slept in four nights -- she must be teething or something, I don't know but I can't manage... PETER Don't worry, it's nothing, she's
michael		But you're beautiful -- At your age all you need is a good night's sleep and you'll look like new. SYLVIA Right, a good night's sleep -- but when? PETER Well, why don't you leave the baby with us for a few days, till you recuperate... I mean, if you want. MICHAEL We're old pros -- it's not a big deal for us... SYLVIA  Really? I can leave her with you for a little while? JACK Of course. Leave her with us. Come back whenever you want. Get some rest. Sylvia, between two sobs, picks up a big bag beside her on the doorstep. SYLVIA I brought a couple of things for her, just for a few days... Michael eagerly takes the bag from her.    It's followed by a second, and then a third. PETER
jack		She'll need two or three months to recover, at least... Maybe more! PETER We could set up a room for her here... MICHAEL A room for her and a room for Mary... JACK Then we could have four shifts instead of three!
peter		Yeah, but I don't think she'll agree. She's got her own life to live. MICHAEL Yeah, she probably wouldn't want to move here. She'd think we'd jump on her any chance we could... JACK But we'd make a rule, she'd just be 'one of the guys!' MICHAEL She'll never want to... SYLVIA  Deal. Mary    suddenly comes in from the kitchen, walking unstead- ily    but determinedly. She's dragging Graton's rabbit by its    ear. She looks at the four of them and laughs her head    off. FREEZE FRAME.
****Dialogues from script :Three_Musketeers.txt****

girard		And god have mercy on whomever you meet next.
mother		Sit. D'Artagnan sighs, sits in a large wooden chair. A beat. His mother speaks quietly, eyes turned back to the open chest. MOTHER Your father was a proud man. And he had a right to be. I never knew one as brave or as kind. He knew that his strength was a gift to be given in the service of honor. That is why he dedicated his life to his country and his King. That is why he gave his life, for both.
mother		It's time for you find your fortune with men as brave and as bold as you are. In Paris. With the King's Musketeers.  You'll need this.
mother		Yes, son.   And now to you. With that, she holds out the beautiful saber.         D'Artagnan takes it firmly into his hands.
mother		Never submit to insults.    Except from the King.
mother		You've heard that every man in the Musketeers is on the run from someone or something? D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   But what am I running from?
mogher		 A shrew of a mother, and a drafty old house. Now go.
rochefort		Musketeers... A hundred faces turn   upward to regard him. And on each the same expression   -- absolute loathing for the man in black. Rochefort is    not intimidated by this sea of con- tempt. He revels in    it. ROCHEFORT By joint edict of His Majesty King Louis XIII and His Eminence Cardinal Richelieu, the Musketeers are officially disbanded. In preparation for the coming war with England, your ranks and commissions are hereby transferred to the Infantry. You will be contacted and told where to report. Until that time, you are instructed to return to your homes. DE TREVILLE  And who will protect the King? ROCHEFORT The Cardinal's Guards are more than capable of assuming that... responsibility.
rochefort		You are hereby ordered to disperse. Should even one of you resist... the entire corps will be arrested and imprisoned.  'All for one, and one for all.'
de treville		Go to your homes. Wait. Our day will come again.
rochefort		 All but... three.
richelieu		Three?
jussac		 What is this?
athos		A private party. Go away. ARAMIS Athos -- is that any way to greet our guests?
jussac		Your presence is requested at Musketeer Headquarters by Captain Rochefort. Athos and Aramis exchange looks.
athos		The Cyclops is a Captain? He must've made a pact with the Devil.
aramis		Or the Cardinal. ATHOS What's the difference?
jussac		You're instructed to come with me and surrender your tunics.
athos		These gentlemen made a similar request. JUSSAC Are you refusing to come peaceably? ATHOS Probably. But I'll leave it up to my companions. Aramis? ARAMIS We can't refuse Rochefort's invitation. It would be impolite. Athos tips back in his chair and gazes upward.
athos		And what do you say, Porthos?
porthos		I'll be right down! With the grace of an aerialist, Porthos jumps from the balcony and lands atop the chandelier. His weight causes the chains suspending it to break. With a whoop of pleasure, Porthos rides the chandelier down as it lands squarely atop Jussac's Guards, squashing them.
constance		These 'bandits' are the Queen's own bodyguards.
constance		You're a very foolish boy, d'Artagnan... but a very handsome one. Good-bye. Constance spurs her horse and rides off to catch up with Anne. D'ARTAGNAN  Wait!   You didn't tell me your name! But Constance is gone. D'Artagnan stands in the middle of the road, feeling foolish and oddly thrilled at the same time. The two bodyguards groan and grumble.
rochefort		I'll take those tunics, Musketeers. PORTHOS  What did he say? ARAMIS He said he'll take those tunics. PORTHOS Tunics?   Coming right up. Porthos reaches inside his cloak and takes out a crumpled red tunic he took from one of the Cardinal's guards. He drops it on the ground, digs into a pocket and takes out another. He finds another in his boot and another up his sleeve. There's one in his hat. Like a magician, he keeps pulling red tunics out of the most bizarre places.
athos		I was trying to remember the last time I saw you here. I know. It was the day you were kicked out of the Musketeers.
aramis		Conduct Unbecoming a Musketeer. Wasn't that the charge?
rochefort		You ought to know. Three witnesses stood against me.
athos		And if we refuse? ROCHEFORT You will become outlaws.   Hunted men. PORTHOS It doesn't matter where I go or what I do. Sooner or later somebody's calling me 'outlaw.' Athos cuts him off with a look. He's familiar with Porthos' propensity for tall tales. But not here, not now. Athos turns back to the balcony. Rochefort lobs a taunt. ROCHEFORT Are you refusing to serve your King? ARAMIS We are refusing to serve the Cardinal. PORTHOS Same thing, these days. ARAMIS France has one King too many.
rochefort		I'll tell him you said that.
athos		Do that, Rochefort. Tell his Emminence the Cardinal that we will continue to perform our sworn duty to protect the King. From enemies across the sea. 
rochefort		I'll make sure His Emminence the Cardinal gets the message. But I can't promise he'll be pleased.
aramis		Are you going to visit them alphabetically or in order of preference?
porthos		Alphabetically seems... fair. ARAMIS When it comes to you and women, fairness rarely applies. ATHOS  To celebrate. And to plan our new lives. PORTHOS Outlaws.
aramis		Citizens of France.
athos		The three Musketeers. And that is all that remains.
athos		 Not as far as I'm concerned.
athos		I mean the Musketeers have been disbanded. Feel free to poke around for souvenirs.
athos		Some nonsense about being needed in the army. Now if you'll excuse me... D'Artagnan blocks Athos' path. D'ARTAGNAN But I just got here. How can I become a Musketeer if they've been disbanded? ATHOS I'd say you've got a problem. D'Artagnan grabs Athos by his injured arm. Athos, stif- ling pain, fixes d'Artagnan with a deadly look. ATHOS You could use a lesson in manners. D'Artagnan touches his sword, eyes flashing at the pos- sibility of a duel. D'ARTAGNAN Any time.
athos		I'm in a hurry now -- but I'll meet you at the Carmes-Deshaux monastery at noon.
porthos		 I rode through a puddle, muddied your sash, the Queen of America except there isn't one, I'm in a hurry, and you were about to challenge me to a duel.
porthos		 I was?
cardinal's guard		The young women do not wish to be spoken to. D'ARTAGNAN I have something that belongs to the Queen. GUARD  What? D'ARTAGNAN A bracelet. GUARD I'll deliver it for you.
aramis		Madam, I'm flattered but I thought you wanted me to tutor you in theology.
aramis		There's nothing unholy about expressing one's emotions. On the contrary. Religion should be experienced in a passionate, all- embracing way. We should feel free to express our spirituality.
damsel		Yes, darling! The Damsel attacks him again.         Suddenly, a pounding on the door. MAN  Open up!
damsel		 My husband! ARAMIS Your husband!? DAMSEL Aramis -- run!
aramis		First we must pray to God for forgiveness.
aramis		On second thought, God's often busy. Aramis leaps to his feet and sprints for the open window.
aramis		If there's one thing I can't abide, it's rudeness. D'ARTAGNAN You fell on me! ARAMIS And I apologized for it. D'ARTAGNAN I suppose you'd like to teach me a lesson in manners, too. ARAMIS I'd be honored. D'Artagnan brightens.   Another duel! D'ARTAGNAN How's two o'clock behind the Luxembourg? Aramis bows politely.
aramis		If that's where you wish to die, I won't disappoint you. Until then...
richelieu		How was your ride?
anne		My ride...?    Well, I... I'm not sure... RICHELIEU 
anne		Thank you. Richelieu turns to the great map, speaks gently.
richelieu		You're homesick. ANNE  Lonely. Is that the same thing? RICHELIEU Sometimes. Richelieu brings his eyes back to Anne, continues: RICHELIEU Austria's loss is France's gain. ANNE I'm not sure my new husband shares your opinion. RICHELIEU Nonsense.    He's young, not blind.
anne		Mostly, he is absent. I've barely seen His Majesty since our wedding, and that was three months ago. Whenever he's around me, he has nothing to say.
richelieu		Arranged marriages can be difficult. Your father and I thought yours would bring Austria and France closer together.
richelieu		Louis was only nine years old when his father was assassinated. He lost his childhood forever that day. I have watched him grow toward manhood, seen the toll his life demands. A boy who is not allowed to be a boy sometimes has difficulty becoming a man. He is shy, yet boastful. Giving, yet stubborn. But most of all, he is not yet sure exactly who he is. The boy who lost his father. Or the King of France. ANNE But how can I...?
richelieu		Flatter him. Make the boy feel like a King. So that the King may be your husband.
seneschal		His Majesty, the King.
richelieu		Your Majesty. LOUIS Cardinal Richelieu, I've been looking for you.
louis		Oh. Anne. Hello. I didn't know you were here.
anne		Would you like me to go? Louis suddenly remembers the reason he's here.       Determin- ation breeds a more capable attitude.
louis		No.  Please, stay.  Your Eminence, I demand an answer.
richelieu		 Perhaps if I knew the question... LOUIS I've just been told that you went ahead and disbanded my Musketeers. RICHELIEU You approved the decision. LOUIS But not the timing of the matter. I intended to address them myself, explain the situation... RICHELIEU Your Majesty, France is on the brink of war. We dare not hesitate.
louis		But these men are my personal guards... RICHELIEU They are the bravest fighters in France. 
louis		I will be the judge of what is best. For me, and for France.
richelieu		Of course.   Forgive me. A tense beat.    Anne, feeling out of place, steps toward the door. LOUIS Anne?   Are you all right? ANNE You two should continue this discussion in private. LOUIS  Your thoughts on the matter interest me. They might... help.
anne		It seems to me that... you're doing very well on your own.
richelieu		Extremely. LOUIS Intelligent.
richelieu		Very.
richelieu		She scares me too. As do all women who join beauty to intelligence. What's a man to do?
louis		 I have no idea. RICHELIEU The course of love is full of frightful turns. But, no matter how you feel, no matter how hopelessly afraid... never let her know that you are anything other than the bravest and most confident man in France. Make that your starting point, and everything else will fall... into place.
louis		The bravest man in France...
richelieu		Good advice for a shopkeeper. Let alone a King.
richelieu		I know.   But don't worry. 
milady		Count de Winter.
milady		 I will kill you with my bare hands.
milady		Well if that's the case, I'd better start packing. But first, my hair... Milady, who has been removing combs throughout, reaches for the next, and...
armand		Father?
athos		I asked two of my friends to act as seconds, but they are not as punctual.
athos		Don't worry. I fight just as well with my left hand. 
porthos		 What're you doing? You can't fight this man.
athos		Why not? PORTHOS Because I'm fighting him. D'ARTAGNAN Excuse me, monsieur. But not until one o'clock. ARAMIS  How long have you been in Paris? D'ARTAGNAN I arrived this morning.
athos		You've been... busy.
aramis		Jussac.   Again. Athos steps forward to meet him. ATHOS I told you the next time we met I'd want an answer. But I didn't expect you so soon. JUSSAC The three of you are under arrest. The boy's of no interest to me and is free to go. Do you intend to resist? PORTHOS Oh, don't be stupid. Of course we intend to resist. Just give us a second.
porthos		Bold and brave.
aramis		A poet. ATHOS Have you got a name, boy? D'ARTAGNAN D'Artagnan.
porthos		 D'Artagnan? The name has meaning for all of them. The Musketeers look at each other, deadpan, shake their heads. ARAMIS Impossible.
porthos		It couldn't be.
athos		Athos... Porthos... Aramis. D'ARTAGNAN Pleased to meet you... How do you do?... Good to see you again... Meanwhile, Jussac and his Guards look on with increasing impatience. He clears his throat, draws his saber. The Musketeers turn toward the Guards, d'Artagnan standing among them. 
porthos		 Damn monks. Always spoiling everybody's fun.
porthos		They're about to get a little nearer to the hilt of my sword. ARAMIS Pagan. PORTHOS Papist. Porthos slides over to handle one of Aramis' opponents. He'd rather bicker from close range. But Biscarat struggles to his feet, grabs his saber. Porthos sees him, sighs. PORTHOS  Excuse me? ARAMIS I'm fine, thank you.
athos		You mean he's still alive?
biscarat		Now what...?
athos		Last rites. Aramis takes death very seriously.
porthos		 Do you know where this bolo comes from?
porthos		Spain.
aramis		Don't encourage him. By killing Jussac, the boy's made himself an outlaw too.
athos		Not if he leaves Paris. Which is exactly what he's going to do.
porthos		Go home, find a wench, live long and prosper. D'ARTAGNAN Why can't I stay with you? Aramis and Porthos look to Athos.      As always, he will decide. ATHOS Because I do not want you to. It's hard to say whether he's acting out of concern for the boy... or he simply doesn't give a damn. Whatever the case, d'Artagnan is crestfallen. The Musketeers mount their horses, Porthos and Aramis adopt a friendlier tone.
aramis		I know Athos may seem cold and unfriendly, but don't let that fool you. PORTHOS He really is cold and unfriendly.
aramis		But he's also right. This is our fight, not yours. Go on, get out of here.
athos		Wake up, boy.    The Musketeers are just a dream. 
rochefort		 There they go! After them!
at distance		The three Muskeeters rein their horses, look back to d'Artagnan's bold charge. PORTHOS  Do you believe this kid.
rochefort		 Fall back! I'll take him myself!
porthos		Rochefort's got the boy.
athos		 Too bad. ARAMIS You can't just leave him. Athos spurs his horse, rides away. Aramis and Porthos exchange sad looks and hopeful comments.
aramis		He has a plan. PORTHOS Definitely.   A plan. And with that, they gallop after.
rochefort		I'll give you a hint. It's not the Louvre.
rochefort		Well, you're the first person who was ever happy to be here. Unfortunately, your visit will be a short one.
rochefort		Also punishable by death. D'ARTAGNAN It was a long day. ROCHEFORT You know them?
rochefort		The Musketeers. D'Artagnan says nothing.     He will not betray them. Rochefort leans close.
rochefort		Tell me where they are, and I will be lenient.
richelieu		Carry this to the Duke of Buckingham.
richelieu		And doing so, shall earn you the gratitude of... a King.
rochefort		This is the boy who killed Jussac. D'ARTAGNAN I can explain that -- ROCHEFORT Silence! Rochefort punches d'Artagnan in the head, knocking him to the floor. The Cardinal frowns.
richelieu		Rochefort. Violence solves nothing. Leave him to me. D'Artagnan reacts to the Cardinal's reasonable tone. Rochefort makes a sullen exit. The Cardinal smiles. RICHELIEU Please.    Sit down. D'Artagnan reacts with perceptible awe, as if seeing his first movie star. He sits in a finely brocaded chair, looks at the Cardinal, an apparition in red. The Cardinal speaks, his manner casual, friendly. RICHELIEU How much did you hear?
richelieu		You may have many talents, my young friend. But guile is not one of them. Do you have a name?
richelieu		I've heard that name before.   Are you a Gascon?
richelieu		In that case, give my regards to the headsman. D'ARTAGNAN What about my trial? RICHELIEU You've just had it.
richelieu		Then tell me what I want to know, and perhaps you will keep it there a few years longer. 
richelieu		And if you did?
rochefort		Milady left at midnight.   By private coach. RICHELIEU A remarkable woman. The most beautiful I've ever known. And the deadliest. Which would explain my attraction.  How is our young daredevil holding up?
rochefort		He's wishing he'd never heard of the Musketeers. Down below, the horse cart reaches the scaffold. A man- at-arms drops the tailgate, d'Artagnan steps down. He is taken into the custody of a CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS, and several men-at-arms carrying muskets.
priest		For we are with you, always. The Priest raises his face, reveals it... and winks.         It is Aramis. He whispers: ARAMIS All for one, and one for all...
aramis		The good father is... all tied up.
constance		Men call it justice.
anne		Are you surprised? She replies   with contempt, reins her horse away from the square, the   crowd, the executioner's axe. But Constance freezes in   place, eyes wide. As d'Artagnan, upon the cart, rolls   INTO VIEW. CONSTANCE It's him.
porthos		How considerate of the Cardinal to provide us with a snack. 
porthos		Champagne?
athos		You know I prefer wine. PORTHOS Don't go away.
athos		Turn right at the next street. D'ARTAGNAN The next right...? ATHOS Turn. Athos growls, d'Artagnan jerks at the reins. The carriage careens around the corner, tipping on two wheels.
porthos		 That's it. Next time, you drive.
athos		Gentlemen, this is the end of the line. I hope you had a pleasant ride.  Unhitch the horses. D'ARTAGNAN But the Guards.
athos		Stand back.
porthos		I'd give five years of your life just to see the Cardinal's face!
aramis		Ten! CUT TO:
richelieu		One thousand pistoles on each of their heads, dead or alive. The boy knows our plans.
aramis		A good man, I'm told.
porthos		I knew there was something familiar about this boy. 
porthos		You already have. His name is the Count De Rochefort. D'Artagnan isn't listening. He stands suddenly, turns, and walks away. He doesn't want the Musketeers to see the tears forming in his eyes. Aramis shouts after:
aramis		D'Artagnan. CUT TO:
aramis		A man is better measured by his life than by his death. Your father was bold, and brave.
aramis		He lives in you. That's all the evidence Aramis requires.       D'Artagnan pauses to reflect. Then wonders: D'ARTAGNAN And your father?
aramis		I was orphaned at a young age. The church took me in. D'ARTAGNAN You didn't have one. ARAMIS But I did. He was a great man, a leader of the church. And his example inspired me to dedicate my life to God's service.
aramis		I joined the Musketeers and a strange thing happened. I got my faith back.
aramis		 All of France knows him. His Eminence, the Cardinal Richelieu. D'Artagnan nearly jumps from his boots. CUT TO:
porthos		Go on. D'ARTAGNAN The Cardinal sent someone to England. With a secret treaty. ARAMIS What? D'ARTAGNAN He's made an alliance with a man named, Bucking... Buckingham. The Musketeers look at each other with alarm. PORTHOS The Duke of Buckingham? D'ARTAGNAN 
athos		Wait.
athos		Stay on your horse. D'ARTAGNAN He needs our help.
athos		Don't worry.   We'll help him.
aramis		Gentlemen, I beg you. Please put away your weapons and remove these kegs from the road. We'd prefer to ride on without having to kill you. D'Artagnan and the "Farmers" gape at Aramis in surprise.
farmer		You're threatening us?
porthos		It's not a threat, it's a fact. If you don't haul those kegs away, you're dead where you stand. The Farmer laughs, contemptuously. He raises his pistol and aims it at Porthos' head. But before he can pull the trigger, THREE EXPLOSIONS ERUPT from under the cloaks of Athos, Porthos and Aramis. When the smoke clears, d'Artagnan is startled to see the three dead "Farmers" sprawled in the road and the three pistols emerging from beneath the cloaks of the Musketeers. PORTHOS Mine hit the ground first. ATHOS Mine was taller. Aramis swings out of the saddle and begins to perform last rites over the bodies. D'Artagnan still can't be- lieve what just happened. He turns to Porthos. Porthos raises the barrel to his lips and blows away the gunsmoke.
porthos		There's only one rule, d'Artagnan -- stay alive.
innkeeper		Good evening. ATHOS See to our horses and bring us some food. INNKEEPER  In the name of God, I'm sure. Porthos is on the lookout for danger. He reaches inside his cloak for a weapon and, in doing so, accidentally exposes his Musketeer tunic.
innkeeper		 Musketeers in my house! Gentlemen, put away your swords and come in. Anyone who fights the Cardinal is welcome here.
innkeeper		We don't have much but what we have is yours.
porthos		Ladies, you're in for a treat tonight. Allow me to introduce myself. I'm the Musketeer they call Porthos. Porthos beams, waiting for a big response but nothing happens. The Barmaids look at each other. PORTHOS  Porthos.
porthos		I said, 'A Queen is no different than a barmaid in the dark. Though less... practiced in the arts of pleasure...'
porthos		If you're going to be a proper Musketeer, you'll have to learn the manly art of wenching. Right, ladies? The Barmaids heartily concur. D'Artagnan looks over Porthos' shoulder, to the dark-haired Barmaid seen previ- ously. Porthos follows his gaze, grins. PORTHOS Ahh, very good. Your first subject. But you'll need instruction. Watch closely. Porthos pulls one of the Barmaids to his chest, brings her lips toward his. PORTHOS The secret to wenching is the first kiss. For in that kiss, a lasting impression is made. If it is weak, she will think you are weak. And if it is comical, she will think you are a clown. With me? D'ARTAGNAN Weak... weak.    Comical... clown.
porthos		Very good.   And as a Musketeer is never weak,  and only rarely a clown, your  first kiss must be all the things  that you are. Like this... Porthos gives the Barmaid a powerful kiss.      He breaks it, turns to d'Artagnan with a grin.
aramis		Only if you don't know which words to say. All turn to regard Aramis. He'll play along too. Porthos reacts with delight. D'Artagnan with interest. Aramis continues: ARAMIS Words may make a more lasting impression than a thousand of Porthos' kisses. BARMAID 
aramis		Shakespeare. PORTHOS That's cheating. The Barmaid on his lap disagrees.
barmaid		It's beautiful. D'Artagnan looks at the dark-haired Barmaid across the room. Porthos urges him on. PORTHOS Come on, d'Artagnan. We haven't got all night.
porthos		The boy's a natural. 
aramis		In all the years I've know him... I have never seen Athos smile.
athos		You fight like a Musketeer. Let's see if you can drink like one.
athos		Famous last words.  What shall we drink to?
athos		Love.  Would you like to hear a story, d'Artagnan? A love story? Athos' voice reveals unexpected vulnerability, the pain he keeps inside. D'Artagnan is fascinated, moved. He nearly whispers:
athos		He killed her. It seemed like the same thing after a while.
porthos		Care to dance, Athos? ATHOS Only if I can lead.
innkeeper		Excuse me, gentlemen.
athos		Well?
innkeeper		It's dawn. They turn in disbelief to the shuttered windows. Sure enough. Sunlight is peeking in through the cracks. CUT TO:
porthos		You know,   d'Artagnan, it's not a good idea   to travel on an empty stomach.    You really should have had a big   portion of those sheep's brains...
porthos		 A connon ball.
aramis		 How's your head now?
athos		Stay with us, and you just might get your wish. Athos spurs his horse across the field, d'Artagnan and the Musketeers follow. But they discover crude battle- ments in their path. Athos changes direction, sees six horsemen waiting for them in the near distance. He changes direction again, as the horsemen charge after.
constance		Yes.
anne		And when he looks at you, do you suddenly forget how to breathe? 
anne		Then you're in love.
constance		 I am.
anne		Who is he? CONSTANCE You'll never believe it. ANNE Of course I will.
constance		You won't. ANNE Who? CONSTANCE The young man who rescued us from the bandit.
anne		The young man on the scaffold?
constance		Yes. ANNE  You're right. I don't believe it.
anne		What an impertinent question. 
anne		My love... is a matter of state. It's complicated. A sad beat.    Constance teases:
constance		Do you think about him all the time?
anne		 As Queen, my mind touches on many subjects. CONSTANCE Do your knees feel as weak as water? ANNE Never. CONSTANCE When he looks at you, do you forget how to breathe? A beat. And Anne is a girl of eighteen again, not Queen. Wistful, she replies: ANNE I hope he will someday.   I hope I will too. HOLD ON Anne for a beat.
anne		Cardinal.
richelieu		I need your help. And could not in good conscience wait another minute.
anne		You want my help? RICHELIEU Yes.
anne		On what matter? RICHELIEU Your... husband. ANNE  Your King.
richelieu		The Huguenot rebellion, occupation in the Antilles and Cayenne. The coming war with France. These are not the usual hobbies of youth. ANNE No. 
richelieu		He feels it is not... appropriate. ANNE It sounds as though he is concerned with more important matters.
richelieu		Which is exactly why we must celebrate.  He will listen to you. If you will speak. Richelieu makes his case with forceful eloquence, seeming loyalty. Anne considers, replies, noncommittal: ANNE I will speak to him. Anne senses hidden agenda, intrigues below the surface. The conversation's conspiratorial tone begins to disturb her.
anne		Now, if you'll excuse me, I... RICHELIEU Of course. Anne nods, turns back toward the chambers.       Richelieu calls after.
richelieu		Your Majesty? 
louis		Why is it I don't see any of my Musketeers?
richelieu		I'm afraid... that's impossible. LOUIS Why? 
louis		There must be some mistake.
richelieu		No mistake. I have reports from the local constables involved.
louis		Your Eminence, I've been hearing some very troubling rumors about you.
louis		I've been thinking about that. A birthday celebration when we're on the brink of war...
richelieu		 Your subjects are eager to celebrate the birth of their King at a time like this. LOUIS I'm not so eager. RICHELIEU I have an idea. Why don't you discuss the matter with your Queen? Louis looks up, wonders. As Richelieu draws him deeper into his spider's strategems.
aramis		 Ten, twenty at the most.
ferryman		A privilege to carry you on my humble boat... The Ferryman turns a greedy eye on the Woman and child. FERRYMAN Two pistoles.
woman		But I only have one. Couldn't my child ride free? She's so small... FERRYMAN  Two pistoles. A courtly voice intervenes.
aramis		Put away your money, madame. You and your child will cross the river under our protection. For free. 
aramis		Porthos! PORTHOS What? Aramis takes Porthos by the shoulder and turns him so he can see their pursuers pouring over the top of the hill on their horses. PORTHOS We sail!
91.		96   FLATBOAT                                                   96 Porthos laughs and taunts the angry pursuers. Aramis ties scarves around the horses' eyes to blindfold them for the crossing. Then he turns around and sees what Aramis is already seeing -- the two Cavaliers watch them with keen interest. FIRST CAVALIER You're those Musketeers everyone's been looking for.
porthos		Popularity has its price.
second cavalier		I'm listening.
porthos		Let's see. You are, by your dress and by your manner, members of a bone-lazy class of servile ninnyhammers whose slavish allegiance to His Eminence the Cardinal is as that of a dog who likes nothing better than to sniff today where he has peed the day before. 
first cavalier		May I reply? ARAMIS  By all means. FIRST CAVALIER Better to be a dog in the service of a great master, than a beef- witted moron so dazzled by the throne that he does not see the true nature of the foolish boy who wobbles atop it. Which is to say, that most muddy-brained of all men... a Musketeer. The Cavaliers have already pulled out their swords. Porthos and Aramis now reach for their own. Porthos deadpans: PORTHOS Maybe there's something  about us that just pisses people  off. At least I'd like to think  so. It's too bad we can only kill  them once.
porthos		I've been called a lot of things in my time... ARAMIS  Porthos... PORTHOS But beef-witted is a little more than I can stand, not to mention unfair... ARAMIS Porthos... PORTHOS What? Aramis indicates the opposite shore as the flatboat approaches it. There, waiting patiently, swords and muskets already drawn... is a patrol of Cardinal's Guards.
aramis		Can you swim? PORTHOS  No.   My horse can. ARAMIS That'll do.
porthos		But...?
aramis		A nice relaxing boat ride... 
cut to:		100   EXT. DENSE FOREST - DAY                                         100
athos		Ride to Calais and stop the Cardinal's agent.
athos		All right. I'll toss a coin. Tails I stay, heads you remain. Agreed?
athos		Go! Athos turns away, SHOOTS at another horseman.       D'Artagnan runs to his MOUNT, GALLOPS away.
milady		Welcome back.    Did you dream?
milady		D'Artagnan. I like that. I am the Countess de Winter. Milady. D'ARTAGNAN Countess?
milady		My husband's dead.
milady		I have learned to live with death.
milady		What...? D'ARTAGNAN Important business. MILADY How mysterious. A handsome young man with 'important business' in the still of night. Does it involve a young lady? D'ARTAGNAN No. MILADY Does it require clothes? D'ARTAGNAN Yes.   I need my clothes. MILADY They won't be ready for at least an hour. D'ARTAGNAN An hour? MILADY I told the  innkeeper to bring them when they  are dry. Until then, I'm afraid  you are my prisoner. Would the  prisoner care for a drink?
milady		Good. Then we will sit by the fire, and eat and drink, and you may impress, perhaps even move me, with the story of how you came to lie unconscious, in the middle of the night, on the road to Calais.  I love a good adventure. D'Artagnan hesitates, then steps to her. CUT TO:
richelieu		 The wonderful thing about an imaginary opponent is that he is always greatly skilled, and always easily defeated. The pride of victory, without the risk of loss. If only life were like that.
rochefort		I told you not to worry about the Musketeers. They are dead by now.
richelieu		Buckingham's signature will be on the treaty by morning.
rochefort		The King's birthday celebration...? RICHELIEU Will proceed as planned. Thanks to the kind intercession of Queen Anne. Rochefort steps closer, speaks quietly. ROCHEFORT And our plans...?
richelieu		 Will proceed as well. Richelieu pours two glasses of port, offers one to Rochefort. They turn, raise their glasses to the King's portrait. And drink. CUT TO:
milady		What brings you here? D'ARTAGNAN I'd like to tell you. But I can't.
milady		'Important business.'
milady		Of course.  But, d'Artagnan, if this spy was to find out you are here, your life could be in grave danger. D'ARTAGNAN A Musketeer is not afriad of danger. MILADY I'm dangerous. You're not afraid of me? Her tone heralds a sudden shift. D'Artagnan sees the look in her eyes, can almost feel her lips upon him. But he resists. There is Constance's memory to consider. And midnight as it approaches. D'ARTAGNAN You're not dangerous.
milady		Then what am I?
milady		Beauty, danger. They are the same. And with that, she reaches up to her hair, an ivory comb...
milady		You came to Calais to stop a spy from sailing to England.
milady		We'll take him with us. 
cut to:		114   EXT. INN - NIGHT                                             114
milady		He is the brother of my late husband, Lord de Winter. He blames me for de Winter's death. He thinks I murdered him. D'ARTAGNAN Did you murder your husband, Milady? MILADY What do you think?
milady		I know...
milady		Well. If it's any consolation, you'll soon be joining them. Milady's return to form does not surprise. Parker shoves d'Artagnan toward the fog-enshrouded ship. A name can be made out on her barnacled hull. Persephone.
henri		We are the Countess de Winter's party, arrived from Paris. Permission to come aboard.
henri		Take us to your captain. The tall figure does not reply, nor does he move.        Henri demands: HENRI What are you, deaf? Henri goes to shake the man. He grabs his arm, and the man pitches forward, falling face first on the deck. Henri jumps back in alarm. Milady and the others react. BODYGUARD What is this? Milady's Bodyguards rush around the deck, confront the other silent silhouettes. They, like the tall figure... are dead. The limp bodies topple at their touch. The Bodyguards shout alarm and panic:
bodyguards		Dead!   They're all dead!
aramis		 You look like you've seen a ghost.
porthos		Remind me to tell you the story of horses that could fly above raging waters. A heroic tale of love, death, and Musketeers. Suitable for the general public. Porthos wades into the Bodyguards, at play, shouting as he goes. PORTHOS All right then. All those who wish to die, raise your hands! Don't by shy, there's plenty to go around! D'Artagnan grabs a sword from the deck, turns to join the fray. And finds himself face to face with Parker, the Indo-Chinese bodyguard. Parker has two Oriental swords spinning in his hands. One knocks d'Artagnan's sword out of his hand. D'Artagnan does a back flip but falls on the slippery deck. As Parker is about to chop d'Artagnan's head off, his face grimaces as he is lifted on a sword OUT OF FRAME. In the mist Athos is revealed! ATHOS Sorry I'm late. Did I miss anything? D'Artagnan almost cries with happiness.       He leaps to his feet and embraces Athos. D'ARTAGNAN I thought you were dead.
athos		Keep your mind on the mission, d'Artagnan.
athos		First, always find your enemy's weakness. Second, take advantage of it. Watch me.
sailor		That's our ship... The two Sailors pull out daggers, and bound up the gangplank.
cut to:		121   EXT. DECK OF PERSEPHONE - NIGHT                               121
both sailors		Porthos the Pirate!!
porthos		I told you I was famous. D'ARTAGNAN Porthos the Pirate?
porthos		Privateer.   There's a difference. Every Musketeer is running from something or someone. D'Artagnan deadpans: D'ARTAGNAN I love a good sea story.     Do tell me sometime. Porthos reacts to d'Artagnan's jest. But before he can reply, the youth has bolted back to the fray.
athos		Did you find the Cardinal's spy?
athos		No.
athos		How did you do it, Sabine? How did you come back from the dead?
athos		I did not.
milady		No, Count. You were too proud to listen to the truth. I learned the value of lies soon after.
milady		No. ATHOS Then I will shoot. Athos cocks the trigger.     Milady whispers: MILADY Be kind.   And aim for my heart. Athos' face is a mask of contradiction. He tries to pull the trigger, but it is not in him. Milady recognizes his pain with a nod. She feels it, too. Then, briefly, before she leaves him, Milady speaks softly. The past, their love, and where it led them.
milady		I remember... everything.
armand		Countess de Winter... As d'Artagnan, Porthos, and Aramis arrive on the scene...
aramis		He is not mentioned directly. But the agreement is contingent on a 'demonstration' of the Cardinal's power. D'ARTAGNAN A demonstration? What does that mean? ARAMIS I don't know. Athos' face grows dark. He has been silent throughout. Now he rises to his feet.
athos		I know someone who does. D'Artagnan, Aramis, and Porthos watch in grim silence as Athos crosses the room to an imposing door. CUT TO:
armand		 She dies at dawn.
athos		Do you know the Cardinal's plans? MILADY Yes.
athos		Tell me.
milady		Will you spare my life? ATHOS I can't. 
athos		Sabine. You'll die for your crimes. Nothing can stop that. But how you leave this world is up to you. Milady offers a half-smile, takes his hand in hers.
milady		What did the world ever do for me? HOLD ON Athos.       Milady's hand in his.   All that he is feeling. CUT TO:
executioner		I forgive you for your crimes. Die in peace.
athos		Die in peace.
executioner		On your knees. Milady kneels, the Executioner steps closer. The tableau silhouetted against a reddish glow on the horizon. The Executioner brushes Milady's braid from her neck, exposing the soft white skin beneath. He raises the scimitar overhead, and just as he is about to bring it down... a cry is heard, torn from the heart:
athos		No.
porthos		Athos -- But Athos breaks free.       Milady rises to her feet.   Athos rushes to her.
athos		Forgive me, Sabine.       Please forgive.
milady		The Cardinal intends to assassinate the King at his birthday celebration on Friday. And with that, Milady reaches forward, offers a gentle kiss. Then, as Athos and the others look on, stunned, uncertain... she takes a backward step, finds the cliff's edge... and steps over it. The Executioner rushes to look after. The others follow. Except for Athos, who remains rooted in place, eyes on the distant horizon. A long silence. THUNDER RUMBLES. EXECUTIONER God's justice be done.
athos		The King's life in danger.   We have work to do.
rochefort		He can do it every time. Rochefort signals approval to a solitary marksman positioned far away on one of the roof parapets. The marksman rises from a shooter's crouch, bows curtly, and begins to reload his musket.
richelieu		And he has no qualms about... ROCHEFORT None. He believes that man should honor no Kings before God. RICHELIEU A man of faith. How delightful.  Whatever you're paying him, double it. I want the King's birthday to be a memorable event. And rehang this painting in my chamber. Just as it is. HOLD ON Richelieu for a beat.   Framed by a sky filled with stars. His evil intent. CUT TO:
louis		They look... happy.
anne		Hungry, more likely. LOUIS Still, you were right about the celebration. And when the Cardinal told me how much it meant to you... ANNE I said nothing. LOUIS But... ? ANNE The Cardinal expressed in confidence how much the celebration would mean to you... Both pause to consider the manipulation.
richelieu		France will not go wanting. A new King will sit on the throne. The true King after all...
rochefort		Yes, Your Eminence.
richelieu		Are you sure? ROCHEFORT I'd stake my life on it, Your Eminence. RICHELIEU  Rest assured, Captain. You have.
athos		 Look through the surrounding area. We'll try to reach the King...
louis		Leave us... alone. That's when a loud BOOM rocks the room.
richelieu		 Kill him. Kill her, too.
rochefort		Not for long.
rochefort		I might... have been... mistaken.
richelieu		Your Majesty, that document is an obvious forgery. I am clearly the victim of a conspiracy designed and perpetuated by these three Musketeers.
richelieu		You can't do this to me.   I'm the Cardinal of France. 
louis		And as King... I hereby reinstate the Musketeers. A tremendous cheer is heard from all. Richelieu is led from the room. He pauses in front of d'Artagnan. RICHELIEU Congratulations, Monsieur d'Artagnan. I'll be keeping an eye on you. D'ARTAGNAN  Thank you, Your Eminence.    I'll be watching you, too. Richelieu smiles his crocodile smile. Followed by guards, he turns and strides away, hands clasped behind his back, scarlet robes billowing behind him. Louis turns to the Musketeers.       He indicates d'Artagnan.
louis		Is this the young man who saved my life? Porthos puts a hand on d'Artagnan's shoulder. PORTHOS His name's d'Artagnan, Sire.
louis		Approach, d'Artagnan.
louis		Rise, d'Artagnan. And join them. Musketeer.
porthos		His lips, unused as they are to such a contortion, twisted and stretched... into a smile.
aramis		It was spectacular. And what teeth.
****Dialogues from script :Thunderbirds.txt****

narrator		From a secret island in the South Pacific, the courageous Tracy family run an organization called International Rescue. When disaster strikes, anywhere in the world, they are always first on the scene. They go by the name they gave their incredible machines, the Thunderbirds.   Five, four, three, two, one. Thunderbirds are go!
teacher		So, gentlemen, we all know that A2 plus B2 equals... C2, that's right. But what happens when we bring in Leonardo Da Vinci's E, F and...  Mr. Tracy!
fermat		Alan. Alan!
teacher		How kind of you to come back from outer space, Alan. I trust re-entry wasn't too rough?
alan tracy		I was just...
teacher		Apparently not  "Thunderbirds are go."  Well, I hope you aren't going anywhere special over spring break, Alan. Because I expect a 10,000 word paper on my desk the day you get back. That should keep you busy.
alan		 "That should keep you busy. Yeah, well you can take your 10,000 words and stick them right up your..."
fermat		Alan!
alan		Headmaster.
headmaster		Mr. Tracy!
alan		Miss Garrett.
fermat		You gotta be more careful Alan.
alan		Why can't I tell 'em I'm a Thunderbird Fermat?
fermat		Because technically you're not a Thunderbirds yet. And if your identity was discovered, it would a d-d-di- it could be very bad.
alan		I know, I know.
excited kid		It's the Thunderbirds. They're gonna be on TV. Let's go! They're gonna be on TV.
alan		Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Where are they?
excited kid		In Russia, at an oil rig fire.
alan		Great! I'm stuck at school and my brothers are on another cool mission.
fermat		Wanna watch?
alan		Yeah!
lisa lowe		We are told this super-rig is now in danger of total collapse.  And there is real concern for the lives of six men who remain trapped on board.  An emergency call went out to the Thunderbirds just a few minutes ago. They should be here any moment now.   And here they are!
scott tracy		Thunderbird 2 this is Thunderbird 1. I have visual, south
jeff tracy		FAB. We'll take it from here.
mullion		Come on! Come on!
jeff		Scott, get out. That tower's coming down.
scott		Got it.
jeff		Thunderbird 1 any damage?
scott		Negative, Dad.
alan		Come on, come on! Swing around. You can't get close enough, taking that approach angle.
jeff		This approach angle's no good. Gonna have to swing her around.
jeff		Scotty, I was watching for wind shear when you were still wearing diapers.
alan		Come on, Dad.
jeff		Whoa! Hold on!
scott		Who needs the diapers now, Dad?
fermat		What do they do now?
alan		Probably drop the rescue platform from
virgil tracy		Open 'em up. Here we go. Rescue platform's on its way.
jeff		Virgil, how's it going?
virgil		It's looking good, Dad.
crew member		Come on! Jump!
virgil		Okay, I've got a visual. Hold it there. Targets locked. Firing rescue lines. (Directed toward the
crew member		READY
jeff		Alright, let's haul them out.
fermat		Commencing reverse thrust.
jeff		Okay, let's bring 'em home.
crew member		Look out! 
alan		Man they gotta get 'em out fast. That rig's gonna blow.
crew member		Hang on!  Boys watching the TV gasp as the crew goes down back toward the water a little bit
jeff		Whoa sorry, boys. Hold on tight. Here we go.
alan		Come on, Virgil.
virgil		Hold on guys
jeff		How you doing, son?
virgil		Never better
jeff		Thunderbird 1, commence knockdown procedure.
scott		FAB, Thunderbird 2.  Lining up target.
jeff		Bull's-eye! Outstanding shot. All right boys, let's take these babies home.
lisa lowe		As you can see the fire has been extinguished. The rocket fired from Thunderbird 1 has
chuck		That was great work, Lisa. Thanks a lot.
alan		That's another good one, diaper boy.
headmaster		Tracy!  There's someone here for you.
fermat		Sure beats the bus!
alan		Definitely!
lady penelope		Fantastic. Now, will any of these gorgeous young things be joining you?
alan		Just Fermat.
lady penelope		Quite right.
alan		Lady Penelope, why are you in America? Are you on a mission for my father?
lady penelope		Alan, shh! I am an undercover agent, so please try to be discreet. (camera pans over to
fermat		Hi, Parker.
parker		Good afternoon, Master Hackenbacker.
alan		Hi, Nosey.
parker		Less of that attitude, or I shall be obliged to deliver the Parker Haymaker.
alan		Okay, bring it on, big guy.
lady penelope		Try not to run over any children, Parker.
parker		Very good, milady.
lady penelope		Come on, Parker, chop chop!
alan		All right!
fermat		Whoa!
alan		YES!
fermat		Yeah! the boys high five
lady penelope		 Oh, look, Parker. Pink is the new black this season.
parker		I'm very glad to hear it, milady.
lady penelope		And hemlines are going up.
parker		That is good news, milady.
lady penelope		Oh and apparently England won the football last night.
parker		Yes! Eng-er-land! 
lady penelope		Calm down, Parker.
parker		Yes, milady. Sorry, milady.
panhead's mother		Come on, baby. Out you jump. (Turns to her teenage son who has a pan stuck on
panhead		Even better! It's the Thunderbirds!
virgil		OK, lock it up. Let's go. Let's move it. Hey, we need some help over here.
jeff		Mission complete. Thunderbird 1 we are good to go.
scott		FAB.
the hood		Ah, the chariot of the gods. Having dallied with the mortals,
parker		Pardon me, milady. Approaching Tracy Island. And radar indicates we have some company.
lady penelope		Now, that's showing off.
alan		I wish that was me.
brains		I'm about to run post flight checks, Mr Tracy. Anything I sh-sh-sh-
jeff		Brains, I noticed a build-up of vibration on Thunderbird 2, followed by illumination of the number 5
brains		Okay, Mr. Tracy, I'll ch-ch-ch-study the flight data and guidance processor.
alan		Dad!
jeff		Alan! Let me look at you. He hold Alan at arm's length and then looks him over. He then looks
virgil		Hey Sprout! ruffles his hair
scott		ruffles his hair Hey Buddy!
onaha		Dinner's ready. Come and get it.
jeff		Onaha, it smells delicious. I am starved.
alan		So Dad, I saw the mission on TV. It looked dangerous.
jeff		Saving lives is a dangerous business. But it's what we do.
alan		Do you think the fire was caused by thermal up draughts? I mean that would explain the-- (Jeff
jeff		Whoa, whoa, whoa, enough shop talk. I want to hear about school.
alan		School's boring. Plus I've been thinking, maybe I could be home-educated now. That way, I could
jeff		No short cuts, Alan. No school, no rockets. Say, why aren't you wearing your retainer?
scott		So I'm getting the reading telling me that the wind is blowing 60 knots, right up my keister.
virgil		No kidding.
alan		Did you try readjust the flaps?
scott		Well that's the first thing I did, Sprout! It's not my first day in a Thunderbird you know.
gordon		Try and keep up!
virgil		Yeah and don't you have homework to do or something?
gordon		Unless he's blown up this school, like the last one!
scott		Yeah, keep Alan away from the ships, he's a hazard.
jeff		Okay, that's enough. Pass the salad.
virgil		Man, I haven't seen that much fire since that volcano in Fiji.
scott		That wasn't Fiji that was Istanbul.
virgil		No, no, Istanbul was the earthquake.
scott		Yeah well, nothing compares to Argentina.
alan		Dad, I'm not really hungry. Come on, Fermat. Let's go.
fermat		But! I'm not done!  Okay.
jeff		Kyrano, have you seen Lady P?
kyrano		By the pool.
jeff		Of course.
lady penelope		 Parker.
fermat		We're not supposed to go in there. We could get in trouble.
alan		Ah, you worry too much.
fermat		Where'd you get the access code for Thunderbird 1 anyway?
alan		Fermat, my friend, what you don't know, can't hurt you.
lady penelope		I'll be right there. It seems the fire at the oil rig was no accident.
jeff		Any suspects?
lady penelope		Not yet, but I'll keep you posted.
alan		Thanks for bringing Alan home.
lady penelope		My pleasure. Any excuse to visit paradise.
jeff		Tintin!
tintin		Hey, Mr. Tracy.
lady penelope		Hello, Tintin.
tintin		Good evening, Lady Penelope.
jeff		Did you know Alan's home?
tintin		 I mean, oh,
jeff		When are those two going to get along?
lady penelope		When Tintin decides the time is right. Girls always fire ahead of boys with that sort of
jeff		What sort of thing?
lady penelope		 Romance.
jeff		Alan and Tintin? I didn't see that one coming.
lady penelope		No, you wouldn't.
jeff		Have a safe flight home, Penny.
lady penelope		Thanks, Jeff.
alan		Okay, Fermat. Run pre-flight checks.
fermat		Right. Hydraulic systems are green.
alan		Commence main engine sequence.
fermat		FAB, Alan.
alan		Couldn't hurt to just fire up the instruments.
fermat		No wait, Alan! That's the Wrong switch!
alan		Oh God. (There is loud beeping coming from the control panel and the boys can't shut down
jeff		 Alan, my office. Now. (Thunderbird 1 shuts
fermat		It just did.  The boys walk out of Thunderbird 1 and are walking toward the silo door. Fermat is running his hand
alan		I can't believe it.
fermat		We're so b-b-busted.
fermat		Look at this.
alan		What is it?
fermat		Looks like some sort of, gallium-electrolyte compound.
alan		We gotta get out of here.
alan		Dad, I know you're mad. I shouldn't have been in the ship, but if you just give me a minute to
jeff		You're damn right you shouldn't have been in there!
alan		But, nothing happened Dad. I had it under control.
jeff		Under control? Do you have any idea of the importance of secrecy in our operation? You fired up
alan		Yeah, I understand. I understand you don't want me to be a Thunderbird. You don't want me to
jeff		I've heard enough. You're grounded for the rest of spring break.
alan		But, Dad!
jeff		Bottom line, Alan. You need to grow up.
alan		Then let me.  Please!
jeff		Hey, John. I was just about to turn in. What can I do for you?
john tracy		I could sure use a pizza. You know a place that delivers?
jeff		30 minutes or it's free, right? Anything else on your mind?
john		Well, got a forest fire in Vladivostok, a typhoon heading for Singapore. What's happening on
jeff		Alan's home for spring break.
john		Yeah, I thought I could see a storm brewing in your region.
jeff		Teenagers.
john		Well, we've all been there. And Dad, you've done a great job since Mom died.
jeff		Thanks, John. Keep an eye on that typhoon for us. And, uh, I'll call Vladivostok, see if they need
john		FAB, Dad. Sleep tight.
fermat		Morning, Dad.
brains		Hey, son. There's something I'd like to sh-sh-sh- Here, take a look.
fermat		The neural-net control system?
brains		It's great to have you back. I bet you didn't think spring break was going to be this w- w-fun.
brains		And that tiny phone lifts up, perfect.
fermat		Dad?
brains		N-n-n- Almost perfect.
fermat		There's something I want to talk to you about.
brains		Oh. Right. Oh. OK, right. You're having problems with a g-g-g-chi-chi-chi-wo-wo-female?
fermat		N-no! No. Alan and I found some sort of gallium compound on the nosecone of Thunderbird
brains		We should check that out st-st-st-immediately.
fermat		That'd be g-g-g-swell!  Scene skips to Alan skipping rocks at the beach. The camera follows one rock and it leads to a
mullion		The island is in sight.
the hood		Transom, I need you.
transom		Yes, sir. Sir, our cloaking device has evaded their detection
the hood		Mullion.
mullion		Sir? Sir, armed and ready. Shall I target the main structure?
the hood		Why would I want to destroy what will soon be mine? One of the principle tenets of Eastern
mullion		 This is ridiculous.
the hood		It will be almost impossible to force the Thunderbirds to leave their island. On the other
the hood		The Thunderbirds' purpose is to rescue. All we need do is give them the victim. (The Hood
transom		Straightaway, sir. Target acquisition of Thunderbird 5 is locked.
the hood		Fire.
john		What the?
john		Thunderbird 5 to Tracy Island. Mayday! Mayday!
brains		Switching to Command and Control Center. (Brains uses a palm scanner to activate Command
jeff		How bad, Brains?
brains		Thunderbird 5 major damage sustained. Possible m-m-m-Possible strike by m-
jeff		Meteor?
brains		Yep.
jeff		Thunderbirds are go.
gordon		Check retros. Go.
jeff		Go to maximum thrust.
the hood		There goes the cavalry. But who will rescue the rescuers?
fermat		Alan! Tintin! Thunderbird 5 has been hit! Thunderbird 5 has been hit! Thunderbird 5 has been
alan		Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay don't panic. Don't panic.
alan		On the other hand.  ALAN, FERMAT, TINTIN Run!
mullion		We made land.
the hood		 Cut them off.
transom		Activating communications blackout.
brains		What the he-he-devil is going on?
brains		Mr. Tracy, do you copy?
brains		Thunderbird 3 please respond.
alan		How'd they find the island? Do you think it was what I did in Thunderbird 1? Do you think I ruined
fermat		No! That compound we found could have some sort of transmitting capability.
tintin		We have to do something.
fermat		My dad's in the control room, but how do we get there now?
alan		The vents. Let's go! We have to get a message to my dad.
john		I'm losing all power. Repeat, I'm losing all power.
jeff		Hold on, John. We're coming in. Gordon, prepare for immediate docking.
gordon		You got it, Dad. Reverse main thrusters on my mark. Three, two, one.
jeff		Easy. Watch the roll.
virgil		Roll index angle minus two degrees.
gordon		We're locked on.
jeff		Nice work
scott		Tunnel hatch secured.
jeff		Emergency packs boys. Let's move!
jeff		We're in. Let's go!
jeff		John! Scott, tackle that fire.
john		Am I glad to see you guys!
jeff		Easy, you're hurt. Virgil, take care of your brother. Gordon, give me a damage assessment.
alan		Come on, hurry!
transom		One-inch steel plate, with sequential titanium locking mechanism.
fermat		Watch out for the guards.
alan		Get in, get in.
brains		 Who-o-o-o- What's going on?
the hood		So, this is Mount Olympus. And these are the Thunderbirds. I should have guessed. Jeff
alan		 Just keep going straight ahead.
tintin		 Okay.
transom		Professor Hackenbacker? We met at last year's international conference on
the hood		Transom, concentrate!
transom		Sorry, sir. The command control switch, is here. Fingerprint recognition system.
the hood		Professor. Please. Activate the control switch.
brains		N-n-n-n-n- You must be kidding.
the hood		Professor, you and I share an interest in the science of the mind. The difference is, I was
brains		Fu-Fu-Fu- No way!
the hood		Activate the control switch, Prof!  Like a puppet on
transom		We have control.
mullion		 Get up.
transom		Sorry, Professor. Nothing personal.
scott		We got a warning light on our EPS system.
jeff		Attempt manual override.
scott		No, that's negative!
alan		That's it.
fermat		Okay, this one.
jeff		Back to Thunderbird 3 now.  John, we gotta move.
gordon		The locking mechanism's jammed!
the hood		Attention, Thunderbird 5. As you can see I have taken over your facilities. You no longer
alan		They've taken over.
the hood		Warm them up, Transom.
transom		Increasing temperature to maximum.
alan		Who's the bald freak?
kyrano		You? The Hood uses his powers on him and he falls down clutching his head.
tintin		Dad!
fermat		They've got m-my dad.
jeff		Okay, you have our attention. Who are you? What do you want?
the hood		Oh how rude of me. You can call me The Hood. Now, listen, Mr. Tracy. We won't be
scott		You'll never get away with it.
jeff		Why the Thunderbirds?
the hood		An eye for an eye, Mr. Tracy.
jeff		An eye for an eye?
the hood		Perhaps you've forgotten me, but surely you remember saving the life of my brother,
kyrano		Turns to the video phone that the Hood has been using to communicate with Thunderbird
the hood		Take them away.
mullion		Yes, sir.
alan		Whoa.
tintin		That makes The Hood my uncle?
fermat		Every family has a black sh-sh- a black sh- (Sneezes and everyone in the Command and
fermat		 This room's murder with my allergies.
the hood		You left me to die that day. You may have broken my body but you've no idea how
jeff		Wait!  Scott, status report.
scott		CO2 levels are rising.
jeff		Alright, wire the oxygen scrubber to the emergency batteries. Clean the air.
virgil		How long will that give us?
john		About four hours.
mullion		Someone's there. (Mullion walks over to the ceiling, he is standing directly below where
tintin		Run! Run!
alan		No, jump! We can get through to the silos.
the hood		Apparently, the island is not as secure as you thought. (he looks at the old photos that were
transom		 Here they are. Thunderbird 2 silo, in the
the hood		 Seal them in.
alan		Hold on!
tintin		The doors! You guys, let's go! C'mon
fermat		Go! Go!
alan		This way. 
fermat		 No!
tintin		They've got us trapped. What now?
fermat		If we can get to the Thunderbird 1's silo, we can escape through the service tunnel. But we
alan		I'll use the Thunderizer on the door.
alan		You guys get the goons with the Firefly!
fermat		Alan! This equipment is only to be used in an emergency.  I
alan		Yeah.
tintin		Here they come. Fermat, can you drive this thing?
fermat		Uh, no.
tintin		Hey, watch it!
fermat		I took microbiology, not driver's ed. Set the pressure to maximum.
tintin		Got it.
mullion		 Retreat!
tintin		Let's move it.
alan		That's it. Time to thunderize.  Yes!
alan		Come on, let's go!
mullion		Get 'em!
alan		Where's Fermat?
tintin		Fermat!
alan		Fermat!
fermat		Coming!
alan		Hurry up.  What were you doing back there,
fermat		I had an-n-n idea.
alan		Just try and keep up, okay? I'll open the tunnel. We gotta keep moving. (Alan types in a pass
the hood		Alan. You can run if you want. Were you surprised to hear what your father did to me? It is
alan		 We can't go this way. He's there.
fermat		No!  Ow. What are we gonna do, Alan?
alan		I don't know. I'm thinking, okay? (Alan looks at the control panel behind the Hood and sees a
tintin		That's your idea?
the hood		It's not me you're angry at, Alan.
alan		It's not you I'm aiming at. (Alan fires another rock and this time hits the button and the floor
the hood		Get them!
mullion		Transom, fire up Thunderbird 1. And set it on broil!
transom		No sign of them.
mullion		Of course not, the little brats went up like firecrackers. Pop, pop, pop! (laughs at Brains and
the hood		Don't, give him the satisfaction, Professor. This is taking too long. Pick out the equipment
mullion		Yes, sir.  Scene switches to the children trying to get onto the beach, they are getting knocked over by a couple
fermat		How about a little warning next time you pull a stunt like that?
alan		Relax, Fermat. It's just a little water.
fermat		I could have drowned.
alan		You mean you can't swim?!
fermat		I repeat, I could have drowned.
alan		I said I was sorry, Fermat. Just put this behind us, Okay? We gotta watch each other's backs.
fermat		Thank you.
tintin		Boo!
alan		No, c'mon Tintin, stay there.
tintin		You're worse than a couple of girls. Hurry up and get dressed.  Those are nice
fermat		Data from Tracy Island is sent to Thunderbird 5 via satellite, right?
alan		Right.
fermat		So, there's a miniscule possibility that if we reach the satellite station, we could
alan		Blow it up!
fermat		No, we could hack in to it and give
alan		Good thinking, Fermat. Alright, let's do it.  Here's the
tintin		Good. Except that we're here, not there, and the transmitter is there, not here. We have to go
fermat		But that's f-f- off limits.
tintin		It's gonna be dangerous.
alan		I'm in.  We gotta get up there fast! All our folks are
fermat		Actually, he's not going anywhere for now.
alan		The guidance processor for Thunderbird 2. You can't take off without it. Fermat you're a genius.
fermat		Alan, my friend, what you don't know, can't hurt you.
lady penelope		Parker?
parker		Milady?
lady penelope		We have an emergency.
lady penelope		What a charming fellow.
lady penelope		Come in.
lady penelope		Have a look at this, Parker.  He, and this
parker		Sounds like an alias, milady.
lady penelope		Quite right, Parker. Real name: Trangh Belagant. Assumed dead when
parker		Milady, that's Mr. Tracy's loyal manservant, Kyrano.
lady penelope		How's my schedule, Parker?
parker		You have clay pigeon shooting with Lord Marlborough, a benefit gala for the Institute of the
lady penelope		I suppose that's urgent.
parker		Yes, milady. There was also a bridge collapsed in Buenos Aires and a volcanic eruption in
lady penelope		The Thunderbirds haven't responded?
parker		No, milady. And the media is awash in speculation vis--vis their whereabouts. Parker turns on
chuck		Over to Lisa Lowe.
lisa lowe		Chuck, disaster after disaster around the world today and still no sight of the Thunderbirds.
lady penelope		I think it's time to send the emergency signal, Parker.
parker		I fear you're not wrong, milady.
lisa lowe		Lisa Lowe. Back to you, Chuck.
alan		I'm telling you, Fermat, it was like The Hood was inside my head back there.
fermat		What do you mean, Alan?
alan		Maybe he can read minds or control minds or something.
fermat		Don't be silly, Alan. Everything can be explained by science.
alan		I'm just trying to figure out his weakness. Everybody has an Achilles heel, right?
fermat		My Achilles heel is actually my Achilles heel. It's got a blister the size of a basketball. Tintin!
tintin		Stop?
fermat		Yes!
tintin		No!
fermat		 Okay.
alan		 No more cheeseburgers for you, Fermat.
lady penelope		Any word?
parker		Nothing, milady.
lady penelope		Right. You will have to tell Lord Marlborough that I've broken my shooting arm. We
parker		Yes, milady.
lady penelope		The Thunderbirds appear to be in a spot of trouble. And I don't like that. Let's go,
mullion		Ready for launch. We'll use this to get into the vaults.
the hood		Subtle, as usual, Mullion.
mullion		I didn't realize we'd be getting points for style. We're robbing banks, remember.
the hood		Don't worry. You'll get your money.
mullion		 Transom, initiate pre-flight
mullion		What's going on?
transom		It's the guidance processor.
mullion		What's wrong with it?
transom		There isn't one.
mullion		Aaargh!
the hood		Clever Alan. It's the children. They have it.
mullion		No way. They're dead. No one could live through something like that.
the hood		I did. Get them, Mullion. Take whatever you need. And make sure you get the guidance
fermat		Alan, don't you think Tintin is blossoming?
alan		Blossoming?! What's that supposed to mean?
fermat		Come on, Alan. You've a c-crush on her.
alan		You've got to be kidding. I mean, she's. She's not that bad, I guess.
tintin		 Okay, guys, take five.
fermat		Five isn't going to do it!
tintin		Guys?
tintin		Don't move.
fermat		 Whoa
alan		What is it?
tintin		Hexdrotilous scorpion.
alan		Is that dangerous?
fermat		.025 milligrams of its venom is fatal.
alan		So, dangerous is in fact an understatement.
fermat		Watch out!
alan		Tintin, what was that?
tintin		Let's get going.
alan		Hey! She has the same powers as her uncle, The Hood.
fermat		You think?
alan		Must run in the family. Did you do that?
tintin		Just drop it, okay?
alan		Still think everything can be explained by science?
fermat		Not girls!
jeff		Scott? Gordon? You all right?
gordon		We're okay.
scott		The heat exchanger has blown.
jeff		You don't say.
mullion		Come on! Those brats are in here somewhere.
alan		How we doing Fermat?
fermat		Don't rush me Alan. This is very d-delicate equipment.  Which is
alan		Can you fix it?
fermat		Yea- Maybe, but I'll need something to solder with.
alan		We're in the middle of nowhere Fermat, where are you going to find something like that. (Tintin
alan		Ow!
fermat		Perfect.
tintin		Gee Alan, I never figured you for a crybaby.
alan		I'm gonna kill you.
fermat		What'd he say?
tintin		I think it was some sort of apology.
fermat		I got it, yes! Y-y-you the man, Fermat! Okay, first step is to establish contact with Thunderbird
alan		Dad?
john		It's Alan!
jeff		Alan, where are you? Are you safe?
alan		I'm at the satellite relay station with Fermat and Tintin. Fermat's gonna hack into the main
jeff		We're standing by.
fermat		Okay, we're almost there.
transom		Goodness me, Professor. You're so good-looking without your glasses on. I think you may
transom		Oh now that's not fair. Just when things were starting to sizzle.
transom		 A burst of transmission from the island's satellite station.
the hood		And give Mullion the coordinates.
transom		Take the main track southeast, then head up Satellite Hill.
fermat		They're onto us! We're being jammed!
alan		Can you finish?
fermat		I'll try.
jeff		 Alan, what's happening?
alan		Hang in there Dad, one more minute, okay?
fermat		It's not going to work Alan. The signal's too weak for data transmission.
alan		Dad, can you hear me? They're jamming the signal. We're going to lose you. Don't worry, I'll
jeff		That's a negative! It's too dangerous. Follow emergency procedure. Wait for Lady Penelope at the
alan		Dad!
jeff		Alan we're losing you! Alan!
alan		Dad!
fermat		No!
alan		Useless!
fermat		It is now.
tintin		I'm sorry, Alan. This is hard on all of us.
alan		No, it's okay. I'm fine.
fermat		You don't have to be such a tough guy Alan. I'm worried about my dad too.
tintin		I'd do anything to be with my parents right now.
alan		But The Hood knows we're alive now. We have to go.
fermat		Even worse, they know exactly
fermat		Where we are!  Mullion and the other guards watch the kids running down the hillside for a second.
mullion		Come on!
fermat		Great, more water.
alan		Tintin, can you slow 'em down?
tintin		I'd be delighted.
alan		Then do it. And meet us at the junk yard. Come on, Fermat.
alan		This'll get us out of here.
mullion		There! Come on!
mullion		Straight ahead.
fermat		It's gonna make this thing hard to control you know.
alan		No problem.
fermat		You really must be careful not to exceed four bars of boost or else
alan		I said no problem.
tintin		Guys, let's go we've got to get out of here. What is this?
fermat		It's a hoversled.
alan		It's our ticket out, unless you've got a better idea.
tintin		Yeah, let's wait for Lady Penelope, like your dad said.
fermat		 Here.
alan		Great plan. Let's sit and wait to get caught. I say we do something. Now! Right, Fermat?
fermat		Actually, I agree with Tintin. I don't think this is s-s-safe.
alan		You don't think anything is s s-safe.
fermat		Just because I s-s-stutter doesn't mean that I'm wrong. If we're a team, we should make
alan		Do you guys want to sit here and take a vote? Or do you want to get out of here? Cuz I'm going.
tintin		You can be a real jerk sometimes.
mullion		 Go! Go!
tintin		(After looking behind her and seeing Mullion and the other guards in the car getting closer to
mullion		Come on! Faster!
fermat		Alan! You're going too fast!
alan		I need more speed to get above the trees. Hang on!
alan		What'd I tell you guys?  Oh, no.
tintin		What are you doing?
fermat		Oh, no! Not the fridge!
onaha		Tintin!
brains		Hey son.
kyrano		Sweetheart, are you okay?
tintin		I'm fine, Dad.
mullion		 Cool off, kid! (he
parker		Tracy Island approaching, milady. Switching to aqua mode.
lady penelope		Isn't life fun, sometimes?
parker		Rib-tickling, milady.
the hood		What is it?
transom		We have an unidentified craft approaching the island at high speed.
alan		Lady P!
jeff		Phew! Somebody roll down a window. It's getting a little hot in here.
virgil		Re-entry into Earth's atmosphere in 37 minutes.
scott		Oxygen's out in 30 so we won't feel it.
jeff		Stop it!
gordon		Come on, Dad. The situation's hopeless.
jeff		No, it's not. There's still time. We've got people on the ground working for us.
gordon		Alan? He's just a kid!
jeff		He's a Tracy.
lady penelope		This doesn't look good, Parker.
parker		No, milady.
lady penelope		That bougainvillea is absolutely parched, and someone should do something about
the hood		 Whom do we have here? Mullion.
mullion		I must warn you that I know judo, krai magna, and tae kwon do.
lady penelope		And I know Parker.
parker		Milady.
mullion		 You've broken my nose.
parker		Yes, that was very much the intention of the maneuver.
transom		 Whoa!
lady penelope		One tries so hard in life to sort things out on an intellectual-slash-conversational level.
parker		 Shall I bring the car around, milady?
lady penelope		Parker, have a bit of a lie-down.
parker		 Excuse me, milady. (punches him and after that has no
the hood		Ah, Lady Penelope! Of course he has his palace. Why not his princess?
lady penelope		Flattery will get you nowhere. (after she blocks the metal bar that Transom was trying
parker		 Coming through, milady.
parker		 Duck, milady!
alan		He's weak. Using his power makes him weak. (The Hood, having heard something looks over
the hood		You're formidable opponent Lady Penelope. More than a match for most men.
lady penelope		That's not saying much, then, is it?
the hood		 I suggest you
lady penelope		Don't try your parlor games on me you sad, little man. You've committed a serious
the hood		 How are you, Alan? (he uses his powers on Parker and Lady
parker		Really, sir, don't mind me. This isn't the first time my head's been pulverized. And it's never
alan		 Stop! Stop! I'll give it to you. (throws the guidance processor
the hood		You made a match of it, Alan, I'll give you that.  Put them with the
mullion		 You're coming with me. (Grabs Alan's arms and throws Lady
lady penelope		Put me down! This outfit is couture.
jeff		Don't go to sleep. John, look at me. Keep your eyes open.
mullion		You need to cool off, milady.
tintin		Lady Penelope!
lady penelope		 Right, that's quite
alan		 So, how does it feel to be right all the time?
fermat		Not b-bad, actually.
alan		I'm so sorry, Fermat.
fermat		We make quite a pair. It's hard for me to t-t-talk. It's hard for you to l-l-listen.
lady penelope		Parker, I have an idea.
parker		Excellent, milady.
lady penelope		Brains, how long do Jeff and the boys have?
brains		I can't think. I'm too c-c-cold.
transom		The guidance processor has been installed.
transom		Thunderbird 2 is ready for takeoff.
the hood		What is our ETA?
mullion		Under an hour. Bank of London, here we come!
alan		We've got to be quick. The Hood's getting away.
parker		In position, milady.
lady penelope		Here we go.
alan		Yes!
parker		Good shot, milady.
lady penelope		 Come on, Parker. Let's give the bad guys a good
parker		 This seems to be a six-lever mortise, milady.
lady penelope		I love it when your checkered past comes in handy Parker.
parker		Thank you, milady. Unfortunately, I fear I shall need a piece of wire to access the mechanism.
lady penelope		Will this suffice, Parker?
parker		Most certainly, milady.
lady penelope		I didn't actually need it, anyway.
parker		Of course not, milady. 
fermat		Quick! They're getting away
alan		Okay, everyone get to the control room.
fermat		 Hat.
fermat		Get in there quick, Fermat, and save my family. Then we'll get The Hood. Good luck!
fermat		Looks like they slipped a backdoor key into the access codes.
brains		I'll follow your lead, son.
lady penelope		 Thunderbird 5 come in.
alan		How long have they got before re-entry?
fermat		90 seconds and counting
fermat		I'm in!
alan		Good job, Fermat.
fermat		Okay, I just need someone on their end to confirm the access protocol.'
brains		Thunderbird 5 come in.
alan		Dad, come on are we coming through?
brains		Mr. Tracy, can you hear me? Come in.
lady penelope		Thunderbird 5 come in.
alan		Dad, come on!
brains		Mr. Tracy, can you hear me? Come in.
alan		Dad!
brains		Thunderbird 5 come in.
alan		How long have they got?
fermat		45 seconds until re-entry.
brains		Damn it, Jeff! Wake up!
jeff		I think that's the first time you've ever called me by my first name, Brains. Thanks for waking me.
alan		Dad!
jeff		Alan! Well done.
fermat		Mr. Tracy, confirm access protocol.
john		Confirmed. We are back online.
brains		Gravity is restored. Put Thunderbird f-f- your craft into geostational orbit immediately.
jeff		FAB, Brains.
jeff		Looks like we're good to go.
alan		Dad, are you all right?
jeff		We're fine. We still have a job to do. Where's The Hood?
brains		He's in Thunderbird 2 Mr. Tracy headed for L-L-L
lady penelope		London.
brains		She's right.
alan		He's got the Mole on board.
john		Looks like Thunderbird 3 lost a booster, Dad. We'll never get there in time.
alan		Let me go after The Hood. He'll destroy everything you've built everything the Thunderbirds stand
jeff		Negative. I'm sorry it's too risky.
alan		I can do this. You know I can. What am I saying?  We
jeff		Okay, Alan. We'll meet you there. Thunderbirds are go!
alan		FAB.
jeff		 Okay, boys, we are outta here.
tintin		Are we really going?
alan		Yep.
tintin		Oh, boy!
alan		You ready, Fermat?
fermat		N-n- I guess!
fermat		Flight controls are green.  FEMALE COPUTER VOICE Anti-detection shield activated
fermat		Hydraulic systems are good.
alan		Right. Set primary fuel pumps. Main engine start.
lady penelope		 Don't boys just love their toys?
lady penelope		And off we go!
bridge worker		Get the bridge up! Get the bridge up!
brains		Thunderbird 1 come in.
alan		Roger, Brains.
brains		Situation update, Thunderbird 3 is about to initiate separation.
lady penelope		Boys, Thunderbird 2 is in final approach to London.
alan		I know The Hood's weakness, Fermat. I can stop him if we get there in time.
fermat		Stand by. We're going to maximum thrust.
all		Whoaaaa!
jeff		Gordon, heat 'em up.
chuck		We're getting reports of some kind of incident in London involving the Thunderbirds. Lisa, are
lisa lowe		Chuck, I'm here in Jubilee Gardens where Thunderbird 2 has made an impromptu landing,
the hood		Set a course for the vault.
transom		Sir, if we continue on our present course, we'll sever the monorail's subterranean supports.
the hood		Stay on course.
transom		But sir, we'll cause a major disaster.
the hood		No, we won't. The Thunderbirds will.
lady penelope		Let's get her down, boys.
alan		Initiate landing, Fermat.
fermat		Right.
fermat		FAB.
fermat		You're going too fast.
lady penelope		Textbook, boys.
transom		Activating electromagnetic pulse to disable the bank's security systems.
mullion		ETA, one minute.
lady penelope		Parker, meet me at the Bank of London.
parker		Yes, milady.'
jeff		Ride it out, boys! 
alan		The Hood's getting away.
tintin		Those people can't hold on much longer.
fermat		What are we gonna do, Alan?
alan		We're the Thunderbirds. Our duty is to save those people. Brains, we're going into the accident
brains		FAB, Thunderbird 2 and good luck.
alan		Brains, the monorail is down. Repeat, the monorail is down. I'm going underwater in
fermat		Me?! Fly alone?!
alan		Fermat, the Thunderbirds need you right now. I need you.
fermat		FAB, Alan. 
jeff		Brains, come in, what's the situation?
brains		The Hood has caused a disaster with the Mole mono-mono-mono- one-track railway is down in
jeff		Where's Thunderbird 1?
brains		It's on the ground. The k-k-kids are
jeff		FAB. We're right behind 'em.
mullion		Look at all this gold!
the hood		Stay focused, Mullion. Nine more banks to go.
alan		Fermat, deploying Thunderbird 4 in three, two, one, Thunderbird 4 is go. I can see the monorail.
alan		Don't panic, guys.
alan		Fermat, I'll hold the monorail in place. Can you get a line on that stanchion and lift it up?
fermat		I can't get a clear fix on the target. I might hit the passengers.
tintin		I'll go and fix it myself.
fermat		What you mean swim?!
tintin		Get me as close as you can.
alan		How are we doing on that line Fermat?
fermat		Just look out your window.
fermat		Come on, Tintin, come on!
alan		Come on. Come on, Tintin. You can do this. (Tintin successfully connects the rope to the
alan		OK, Fermat, we need a lift.
fermat		FAB, Alan. Commencing reverse thrust.
alan		That was amazing, Tintin.
tintin		Thank you.
alan		Nice job, Fermat.
fermat		Nothing to it, really.
alan		 Easy does it.
scott		There they are! 
alan		 Glad you could finally join us.
jeff		Hey don't get cocky after one mission. We still have a dangerous situation. I need you boys to
virgil		Okay let's clean it up guys.
jeff		We got to get to the Bank of London fast.
alan		Lady Penelope went after The Hood.
jeff		I know, she may need help.
the hood		Ashes to ashes, diamonds to diamonds. Lady Penelope. What an unpleasant surprise.
lady penelope		Don't be rude. I can't tell you what a pleasure it would be to use my little finger to pull
the hood		Mullion. 
lady penelope		That's not cricket.
the hood		I'm sorry. The only part of sport I ever liked was winning.
lady penelope		How ghastly.
alan		Hey, Dad. That stuff The Hood said, about you leaving him to die. He was lying, right?
jeff		No. See, you can't save everyone, Alan. It doesn't matter how hard you try or how brave you are.
alan		What was Mom like?
jeff		She was a lot like you. Come on, we've got a job to do.
the hood		Finish her off, Mullion.
lady penelope		Shame on you. I always despise a man who delegates the important jobs. (sees the
jeff		Good timing, Parker.
parker		Good afternoon Mr. Tracy.
jeff		Come with us.
parker		My pleasure, Mr. Tracy.
the hood		The Thunderbirds. They're here. Kill them all.
jeff		Alan, you guys stay here with Parker. I'm gonna go find Lady Penelope.
alan		But what about The Hood?  Look out, Parker! (When Parker turns
parker		Master Tracy!
fermat		Look out, Parker!
parker		Alright, that's enough of that.
mullion		 Don't move. (Parker motions for the kids to run forward but Transom
transom		Go on, then.
parker		No, sorry. I can't hit a lady.
tintin		Allow me. 
mullion		 I've been waiting to get my hands on you brats.
parker		And I've been waiting to get my hands on you.
parker		Ow, now that was a punch.
fermat		Parker, can we wrap this up?
parker		What did you have in mind, Master Hackenbacker?
fermat		Strategically speaking, the best odds of success lie with the Parker Haymaker.
parker		I concur. 
jeff		Penny!
penny		Jeff, no!
the hood		Did you save them all this time, Jeff? Or did you leave someone behind?
jeff		I didn't make you what you are.
the hood		It's not me you have to convince. (motions his head toward the entrance of the room
jeff		Leave my son out of this- (the Hood uses his powers to throw Jeff into the cage that Lady
lady penelope		Jeff!
alan		Dad!  Dad! Dad!
the hood		I'm disappointed in you, Alan. I thought we were kindred spirits.
alan		Well, we're not. I'm Jeff Tracy's son.
the hood		You certainly are. 
jeff		No!
lady penelope		Alan no! (The Hood uses his powers to throw Alan off to the side where he slams
jeff		Alan!
transom		Come here, you little minx! (Tintin jumps up on a bar and flips to the other side while
tintin		 Bye-bye.
jeff		Alan, stay back.
the hood		You want so desperately to walk in Daddy's footsteps. (uses his powers to lift Alan off the
jeff		Let him go.
the hood		Did you really think you could challenge me?
jeff		Let him go, please.
lady penelope		Let him go.
jeff		Please! Let him go! 
lady penelope		Alan! Are you all right?
jeff		Alan, get out. Run!
alan		He's getting weaker. He can't last much longer.
jeff		Neither can you!  Alan, no! Look out! (The
the hood		I'm glad you could be here to see this, Jeff. (steps on one of Alan's hands until he cries in
the hood		Goodbye, Alan! 
tintin		No!
the hood		Ah,  Oh!
the hood		Leave me, Alan. Leave me to die.  Like your father did.
alan		I don't want to save your life.  But it's what we
the hood		See you soon, Jeff.
parker		 Now, that was definitely showing off.
virgil		Hey, Scott.
scott		Get him!
lady penelope		 What did you put in these margaritas?
jeff		It's a Tracy secret.
brains		 That's my boy! One more week and you're gonna be swimming like a F-f-f-D-d-d-
alan		Good job, Ferm.
tintin		 So, what do you think?
alan		He's getting there.  Whoa, Tintin! You're just really, um, blossoming.
tintin		Ew! Did you say "blossoming"? 
jeff		 Gather around everybody. I have an announcement to make. Tonight is a special
fermat		Mr. Tracy!
tintin		Thank you, sir. 
jeff		Congratulations, Alan. No short cuts. You earned it. You all did.
parker		 I'm not usually an emotional man, but sometimes even the toughest
virgil		 Hey, way to go,
john		That's my boy, Alan! That's my brother. (Fermat and Alan are thrown into the pool by Scott,
jeff		 Yes, Madam President. I see. Of course, straightaway. Boys.
lady penelope		Of course it does. And quite right too.
jeff		Thunderbirds are go!  Scene switches to Lady Penelope and Parker in a pink pedal boat
lady penelope		Fast as you can, Parker.
parker		Certainly, milady.
busted		Thunderbirds Are Go
****Dialogues from script :Thunderheart.txt****

written by		 John Fusco
fourth draft		 Oct. 5, 1990
carl		Hey.
ray		Hey. Nice tie.
carl		Don't get too attached.
ray		Ya got the paper?
carl		Yeah.
ray		You're my hero, Carl.
carl		Heroes ain't supposed to shake. I'm shakin', man, look at me.
ray		Breathe, Carl. Four, nice, deep ones.
ray		Anyone stops us going in, we're with the Bowen-Hamilton Textile Company. We have rug samples.
carl		Rug samples.
ray		We are one-dimensional, boring peddlers of fine carpet, Carl.
black man		Hey, look who's here.
ray		Louis, my man, what's happenin'?
fence man		Clean ones?
ray		Immaculate.
fence man		What ya got there, seventy-five thousand?
carl		A hundred and ten. Count it.
fence man		SALLLLY!
louis		F.B.I.! Get your face on the fuckin' floor! MOVE!
ray		Slam dunk.
louis		Beauty. Beauty...
carl		Jesus Christ, Larry, what the fu-- Larry. That's not even your name, is it? What's your real name, you fucking scumbag?
ray		Don't have one, Carl. I have a number, man. Just like the numbers on those treasury checks. You stole from your own country, Carl. Shame on you.
louis		Sugar Ray.
louis		They want ya Home. Upstairs wants to see ya.
louis		Make sure ya spell my name right.
carl		 He had dinner at my mother's.
intercom		SA Levoi, Sir.
tully		Please.
tully		Ray...
ray		Mister Tully.
tully		Do you want a coffee?
ray		No. No, no. Thank you.
tully		Levoi, Cooch. Raymond Levoi, Criminal Division.
cooch		Oh, yeah -- right.
tully		Ray this is --
tully		That's right.
couture		Hello, Ray.
ray		It's an honor.
tully		Ray, we're taking you off the street. We need you out in South Dakota.
ray		South Dakota...  Did I do something unsatisfactory, Sir?
cooch		No, Ray. You're gonna have to blame that on your grandmother.
tully		Interesting bloodline you have, Ray.  French, Scots-Irish, Italian, ...and one-eighth American Indian.
cooch		Sioux Indian, right?
ray		I'm not that sure. Yeah, I think --
tully		-- yes, Teton Sioux. Father's side.
tully		Ray, there's been a homicide out in an area known as The Badlands. Indian Reservation.
cooch		It's not the first. There's been several. And our field office in Rapid City is getting a lot of heat... none of the investigations have turned up jack shit.
tully		The main problem is, Ray, these people are extremely distrustful of outsiders, non-Indians. Relations have not been amicable.
cooch		Different culture. Hard to penetrate. The Indians don't like white cops poking around. And that's why we're in a position where we have to bring in an American Indian agent.
tully		With an Indian representative out there, we hope to keep hostilities dormant; this is a COINTELPRO, Selective Operations Unit, and it'll be easier on Agent Couture if you can gain the people's trust and maybe --
ray		Woh, excuse me, Sir... I see what you're saying... I've got a little Indian blood, that's true. But --  I am not an... an Indian. I can't just go in and --
tully		-- your father was part Sioux.
ray		I didn't know him, Sir. He passed away when I was six.
cooch		Seven.
cooch		Don't worry about it, Ray. As long as the people have proof that we sent them one of their own, no one's gonna ask you to weave baskets or make it rain.
ray		Eight murders in less than a year. All of them Indian. All of them unsolved. Is the law a non-entity out here or what?
cooch		Those are two agents who went into a reservation a few years ago to serve a warrant. They were executed at close range. That one there is a police officer killed by the Mohawks up in Canada more recently.
ray		Jesus...
cooch		The agents who have worked out here say its like going into Nam. Unfamiliar terrain, foreign language, foreign customs... and you never know when you might walk into a few rounds. They hold a lot of old anger for the white man out here.
ray		Were you in Nam?
cooch		Airborne. That's where they used to get us agents from. Now we get 'em from Carnegie-Melon, Ivy League. Accountants and computer whiz-kids. Yuppies with guns.  That's scary shit.
ray		Not as scary as a Hoover man with a computer.
cooch		Hey, hey, hey. J. Edgar would've loved you. He'd love anybody who joined the bureau to, what was it? "To enforce the laws of my country and protect her interests"?
ray		You crashed my file?
cooch		No. I consulted it. We're going into Indian Country, I wanna know what kind of individual is covering my ass. Don't you?
ray		You've been in the bureau for thirty years. You survived The Hoov, the Black Panthers and Abscam. I don't see any bullet holes. That's good enough for me.
cooch		Who found him?
miles		Indian kids. Hunting fossils.
cooch		Okay. I think Agent Levoi and I can proceed from here. What are your call signals?
sherman		PX-10 and 11. Anything we can do to help you out, just radio.
cooch		Good. Thanks, Guys.
ray		Leo Fast Elk... Thirty seven... single... Member of the Tribal Council.
cooch		Looks like Fast Elk wasn't fast enough to outrun that load. What do you make of the damage?
cooch		That's what it looks like, doesn't it? But that's what a ten gauge, choke-bored, shotgun will look like when it hits your lower back from five feet away.
ray		Somebody was serious about doing this guy, that's for sure.
cooch		Ray.
cooch		Good morning.
cooch		Taking ol' Leo somewhere?
crow horse		Leo's been out here too long, man. I'm taking him to ceremonial burial.
ray		This is a restricted area.
cooch		Check him out, Ray.
cooch		Nice piece. You come back here to cover your tracks, Geronimo? What's your name?
crow horse		It ain't Geronimo.
cooch		Who are you?
crow horse		I think maybe you guys got off the wrong exit, yeah? This is the Bear Creek Indian Reservation.
cooch		I know where I am. I'm on federal land, doing a federal investigation, and if you don't wanna cooperate you can take a ride in a federal car, and spend the rest of the day in a little room, answering federal questions. It's your call. Who are you?
crow horse		I'm a full blood Oglala Sioux, born and raised on this reservation.
cooch		You're a wise-ass. Ray check his wallet.
ray		I did.
cooch		Who the fuck is he?
ray		-- a fucking cop.
ray		Walter Crow Horse. Tribal Police.
cooch		He's a fucking cop.
crow horse		We got the wire ya was comin'. You're the Indian official, yeah?
cooch		No. No, that's Ray, here. Ray, uh...  Ray... Little Weasel.
crow horse		Leo's gotta get to burial, Brother. He's gotta make the journey.
cooch		What journey?
crow horse		Tell him, Ray.
ray		Leo has to take the journey, Cooch.
cooch		We'll have to give Leo a refund. Because he's gotta go to the M.E. In case you don't know, Officer, violation of the Major Crimes Act on --
crow horse		-- an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Intimidation. I know that.
cooch		Good. Thank you.
crow horse		I said when can Leo be taken to ceremony?
ray		After we've completed our investigation.
crow horse		That's a nice suit.
cooch		Somebody must be doing something somewhere in your jurisdiction, Officer Crow Foot.
crow horse		You ain't gonna cut his hands off and send 'em to Washinton, are ya? They done that to one of our girls once. Leo did quillwork, he's gonna need his hands.
ray		Leo's gonna need his hands, Cooch. He does quillwork.
cooch		I think Leo's retired from quillwork for the moment.
crow horse		Respect the dead, Hoss. Because when --
cooch		-- did you understand me when I said that --
crow horse		 -- violation of the Major Crimes Act on an Indian Reservation is within the jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of Instigation. I know that.
cooch		Goodbye.
cooch		What the hell you doing?!
crow horse		His mother needs a piece of his hair. It's for the Keeping of the Souls Ceremony.  Has to be kept for four days.
cooch		Keeping of the souls. Do they still burn their dead or something?
ray		Beats the hell outta me.
cooch		Sorry, Ray. You're gonna have to wait in the car. I'll bring you out a cheeseburger.
clear moon		 You made it. Was-te.
cooch		You must be... President Clear Bone.
clear moon		Clear Moon.  Moon. You must be the Sioux.
cooch		No. That's Ray here. Ray...
ray		 Ray Levoi, Sir. Pleasure.
clear moon		It's about time they sent us one of our own. Was-te.
clear moon		Things are no good here. It is like war zone. We need an official who understands what is good for the Indian people. Who knows Indian way.
ray		I thought we were staying on the reservation.
clear moon		Yes. Rooms thirteen and fourteen are on Indian land.
ray		I see.
clear moon		Are you hungry? I have some nice raw kidney in the truck.
ray		Oh, I'm set, Sir. I'm set.
cooch		He's starving, Mr. Clear Moon. Get him some raw kidney. He hasn't had any Indian food in days...
white local		Where you goin'? Back to the res?
white local		What ya doin'? You drunk?
cooch		Let's take a walk.
cooch		What's goin' on here?  I can't walk across the goddamn street without some breed-ass fallin' all over me?
cooch		Watch out now, he wants a kiss, Ray, wants a kiss --
cooch		Go ahead, skin, get your ass back on your sacred land. Get outta here.
cooch		Get outta here. Drive.
dennis		So what type of salesmen are you gentlemen anyway?
ray		Liquor. We heard they like their drink on the reservation, and we were gonna see if we couldn't unload some surplus on the way to Nebraska.
cooch		Now keep that between us, Dennis, cuz I don't know what kinda Johnny Law they got here.
dennis		Hey, Brooks, come over here. I want you to meet a coupla fellas from Denver.
dennis		Liquor salesmen. Be nice to them, maybe they'll give you a sample of some of that gin you like.  He likes that Russian shit that --
brooks		They ain't liquor salesmen. They're FBI.
cooch		Brooks, what's a perceptive fellow like you, doing in a joint like this? Let me buy you a glass of some of that Russian shit you like.
dennis		FBI? What you investigatin'?
cooch		A murder. On the reservation.
dennis		Again. Figures, man.
brooks		You'll never find out who did it.
cooch		You underestimate me, Brooks.
brooks		No. You underestimate these grass niggers. They're killing each other. That's all they do. Get drunk and kill each other. Then cover for each other. Who gives a damn really as long as they stay on their reservation. You ask me, the government shouldn't care one particle.
dennis		You know how in your big cities, you got your niggers and you got your Puerto Ricans? Well out here we got Indians. That's just the way it is.
cooch		The only good Indian is a dead Indian, does that old adage still hold true out here?
brooks		That set-to you saw out front, was nothin' more than a message we were sendin' to the sonsabitches that are divertin' water from the river.
dennis		We got rights. We got a ranch just up here.
ray		Did any of you gentlemen know Leo Fast Elk?
brooks		You fellas are here to investigate a Indian crime, you should keep to Indian land, and talk to them, not us. But you wanna drink here and shoot stick here, that's your right, and we respect that.  Come on, Son, we're up on the table.
dennis		You fellas wanna play doubles?
ray		Water. Worth killing for out here, I'd think.
cooch		Get the plate numbers off everyone of these cars.
ray		I already did.
ray		Couldn't sleep.
cooch		Good.
recorder		 -- out here we got our Indians. And that's the way it is.
cooch		By the time you get to the main village, sun'll be up. I want you to fraternize. Socialize. Penetrate. Infiltrate. Eat some raw kidney, and get these Indians talking. I'm gonna Powwow with Big Chief Clear Moon and find out more about Leo.
ray		Done.
ray		Hobert Standing-Buffalo-That-Walks- Dreamer.  Hello, I'm looking for Hobert Standing- Buffalo-That-Walks... Dreamer.
ray		Good morning. I'm looking for Hobert- Buffalo-Dreaming...  Hobert Standing-Buffalo-That-Walks--
ray		--Dreamer.
ray		Sir?
crow horse		Ray Little Weasel. FBI. I like the way ya sneaked up on me. Must be Indian.
ray		What are you --
crow horse		Watch out!
ray		What?!
crow horse		You're steppin' on sign.
ray		Hey.  Hey, you, listen up --
crow horse		-- Leo wasn't killed here. He was dumped here. Out of a vehicle. Bald tread. Muffler held on with baling wire.
crow horse		The man you want... stepped outta the car, dragged Leo out, laid him down. Then walked over here and made a circle in the earth with a stick. I can't find the stick. He stuck an eagle plume in the circle, got back in his car, dustin' his own prints with a pine bough for about six feet, but he missed a print, right here, see. He got in his car and went Hell- bent-for-Holy-Sunday outta here. He ditched that pine bough three miles across the flat, in the Little Bear River, it floated down to Thundershield Gap. The car hit paved road, and was outta here.
crow horse		The killin' was done where Leo's mother lives. But he was driven here into these Badlands.
crow horse		Big sonuvabuck. Based on the depth of that print, pressure releases... I'd say he goes two-ten, two-fifteen --
ray		Bullshit.
crow horse		-- Well, maybe two-seventeen.
ray		You're trying to tell me you can read all that from a track?
crow horse		No. Not just a track. You gotta listen to the trees, man. To the leaves. To this sand, you FBI's kicked all up. You gotta listen to the earth.
ray		Is that right? Well, listen to this: drag your ass. This is a restricted area.
crow horse		No, this is the home of the Oglala Sioux and I want the dog-fucker who killed Leo. Whether you get him or I get him, I just want him. Shit's been goin' on too long.
ray		You've got no jurisdiction.
crow horse		You got no know-how. About Indian Way. Or about Jack Shit for that matter.
ray		Maybe you're not aware of this, Crow Horse, but I just flew in from a place called the Twentieth Century where we have such things as electrostatic tracking methods, psycholingusitics, DNA fingerprinting; I don't have to crawl around with the scorpions and talk to the fucking trees to get answers. Leo was killed right here.
crow horse		Go back to the M.E., take a look inside Leo's exit wounds and tell me how chicken feed got in there. Trust me, there ain't chickens in the Badlands. His mother's place is --
ray		-- his mother never lived here. She was from up in North Dakota.
crow horse		I'm talkin' his spiritual mother. Maisy Blue Legs.
ray		His spiritual mother...
crow horse		To us Indians, our spiritual relatives are as close as family. I've got seven mothers on this reservation. Sisters. Brothers. You ain't one of them.
ray		Thank God. Now listen to me, asshole. I'm giving you a break. But if my partner finds out you're here, you're gonna be reading rat tracks in Sioux Falls Maximum Security.
crow horse		Easy. Easy... I'm goin'.
crow horse		You weigh one sixty-three, yeah? Not a beer drinker. You're one of these tofu and pilaf characters. Pack your gun, under your coat -- left shoulder. But you got backup; a little .32, .38 maybe, in a ankle holster that gives you a right foot drag, Shoes are too tight at the toe but, man, they look cool. And that's what counts.
ray		Crow Horse.
ray		Fuck you.
ray		Mrs... Blue Legs? Can I ask you a few questions --
maisy		 -- go away. Leave us alone...
ray		Ma'am, Please --
ray		Mrs. Blue Legs. I'm Indian.
ray		I'm Sioux.
ray		Yeah, right.
ray		Shit. Mrs. Blue Legs! It's okay!
ray		 Black Tail District, X22. You ready for this? Leo wasn't killed in the Badlands. I... I found the location.
cooch		Maisy Blue Legs place?
ray		How'd you know?
cooch		I got one up on ya.
ray		Go ahead.
cooch		I've got the doer. I know who he is.
cooch		Meet me at base. Over.
ray		Cooch. You're my hero.
ray		Who is he?
cooch		One of the leaders of the Warriors of All Red Nations. Militant organization.
ray		White eagle feather through the circle. That's their symbol.
cooch		That's right.
ray		They obviously wanted it to be known that they offed Leo. Some kind of statement.
cooch		Jimmy Looks Twice put Leo's head through a glass door of the tribal offices three months ago. And threatened him several times since. President Clear Moon and the regional FBI feel he made good on that threat.
ray		I'd just like five minutes alone with the motherfucker who hung that flag upside down.
cooch		Easy, Cowboy. No vendettas on my ship. Now: remember what I told you about Nam? Watch the grass, watch the trees, watch the shit house, be on your toes, and if we get committed, don't hesitate to empty that sucker.
ray		Alright. Alright.
cooch		It's show time.
ray		 What the hell is that?
ray		On the ground.
cooch		This is the FBI! Come on out of there nice and slow. Let's move it! Hands on your head!
ray		Hands on your head, Sir. Come on, come on...
looks twice		 What are you doing?
cooch		James Looks Twice?
looks twice		That's right. What are you doing here? This is a religious ceremony you're desecrating.
ray		We're FBI, James. We just need to ask you a few questions.
looks twice		We are in the middle of a sweat lodge ceremony. Do you drag people out of your churches when they're in the middle of prayer?
cooch		Let's take a walk, Jimmy. Come on.
ray		Go ahead. You can all go home.
cooch		We just wanna take a look around your place, Jimmy. We're not here to bust your balls.
looks twice		What's this about?
cooch		Your good friend Leo Fast Elk.
looks twice		You think I killed him? Cuz he was an apple? Well, let me tell you something about Leo, Man --
cooch		-- don't "man" me, Jimmy. Where's the key?
cooch		Ray, use the federal master key.
looks twice		No. Don't do that. Don't deface the property, man. The key's in there.
looks twice		Inside... in the coffee can.
cooch		There's no coffee can in --
cooch		Jesus... Jesus...
cooch		Get him...
cooch		 Assault on federal officers. Suspect has left the area. One officer down. Issue a Fugitive Alert immediately. Over.
radio		Has the officer been shot, X-22?
cooch		No, the officer's been bitten by a fucking badger, okay? Get a Fugitive Alert fucking now! Over.
crow horse		You're an easy man to track, Ray. Ya walk like a penguin with a hard-on.
ray		Is that right? What are the trees saying today?
crow horse		They're sayin' that nobody's gonna talk to you cuz they don't give away one of their own. But they did say there's somebody way across the Little Walking River who wants to talk to you.
crow horse		He sent me to find ya. He says he's got information.
ray		Let's go.
crow horse		 Grandpa Samuel Reaches. Heavy duty medicine.
ray		Medicine. As in medicine man?
ray		Why does he wanna see me?
crow horse		Good question. Hardly sees anybody anymore. Hasn't left this place in twenty years. Did you bring some tobacco?
crow horse		When you go see an elder, you always bring some tobacco as a gift.
ray		What did he say?
crow horse		He wants to know if you ever watch the Cookie Monster. He says the Cookie Monster is not to be trusted -- a trickster.
crow horse		He says there's something wrong with Big Bird -- he's crazy,  He says you stopped the Inipi ceremony last night...?
crow horse		But he is not unhappy with you because he knows you.
ray		He knows me?
crow horse		He says he saw you in a vision some time ago.
crow horse		I guess he had this vision some time ago, in the Moon of the Popping Trees -- uh, back in the winter. He says you come from Wasi'cu city in the East but that your people... way back... are of the Minniconjou Sioux. But you yourself don't know that.
crow horse		He says he knew you'd be coming to Bear Creek. He was told. It is the will of Tunkasilia -- the grandfather that you come here. He says let's smoke the caanunpa the sacred pipe, symbol of truth. So that there will be no lies between us.
ray		What's he smoke in that?
crow horse		Sacred herbs. Tobacco. Don't worry, we don't smoke no Mexican agriculture in The Pipe. That's a white man's myth. This is a sacrament.
grandpa		Mltaku Oyasin.
crow horse		You don't smoke with him, it means you're hiding something.
crow horse		He says Wakan. Sacred. Five hundred year old turtleshell rattle, passed down from the Grandfathers. Heavy duty.
crow horse		He says, it is good. The Spirits are here. The Spirits want to know what you're doing here?
ray		Tell him I'm trying to find the man who murdered Leo Fast Elk. Ask him if he knows where he is.
ray		What did he say?
crow horse		He said he doesn't know.
ray		He just did the Gettysburg Address in Sioux. What did he say?
crow horse		Uh... Grandpa likes to trade; no one stops by here without gettin' stuck in the old Indian barter. He, uh... he likes your shades.
ray		What was he saying?
crow horse		Why should I tell you.
ray		Because he was talking to me.
ray		Does he know something?
crow horse		The old man saw an owl. Over there in the dry wash. Last week.
ray		And...
crow horse		He saw an owl.
ray		So what?
crow horse		The owl is a messenger. When one shows itself to a Sioux... it means someone's gonna die. The owl told him about Leo.
ray		The owl told him about Leo. That's incredible. I guess we just broke the back of this investigation, didn't we? Evidence doesn't get any harder than that -- not for my money. Is there anyway we can seduce this owl into Federal Court?
crow horse		He also said "listen to the water."
ray		Listen to the water. Listen to the owl. He also said, don't trust the fucking Cookie Monster.
crow horse		Go back to your DNA finger-printin'.
caller		Was-te Yelo! Let's have five more veterans. Five more veterans. Hoka Hey!
chasing hawk		What is that that you honor there, uncles? After all the Wasi'cu country has done to you, after all he still does to you, you honor that flag?! That flag has been desecrated by the United States, because they have not honored what that flag represents!
miles		Okay. Here we go.
cooch		Who's this guy?
sherman		Anderson Chasing Hawk. Second in command behind Jimmy.
sherman		Magedelana Eagle Bear. Eagle's claws and a bear's balls.
miles		She keeps an AR-15 assault rifle in her truck. And she'll use it.
ray		Mr. Clear Moon.
clear moon		Our police are afraid of them. Please get them out of here.
clear moon		They're going to kill me next. That's what I hear. These new Indians are destroying everything. Our people are a quiet people.
ray		They can lead us to Jimmy. Just let them go. We're tightening the net on him. We know he's on the reservation.
clear moon		Help us.
agent sherman		Where's Jimmy? We thought he'd be dancing today.
yellow bird		Are you the Washington Redskin?
agent miles		Say hello to Richard Yellow Bird, Ray.
cooch		Ray, get to Jimmy's place and keep it tight. I'm gonna get a tail on his Warriors.
radio		Go ahead, Ray.
ray		I have a pick-up truck. No plates. Subject -- Indian -- entering suspect's house. Over.
radio		Okay, Ray. I'm coming in. If he starts to leave the area, move in. And hold him. Over.
ray		FBI, freeze, Motherfucker -- drop it, drop it!
ray		Turn around, put your hands on the roof of the truck.
maggie		You're the Indian FBI.
ray		That's right. Turn around.
maggie		The people are glad they sent you. They usually send in guys who come at ya with highbeams, screamin' "drop it, Motherfucker", stick a gun in your face, frisk ya down. Even if ya got a child with ya. No, it's good to have ya. It's gonna be was-te times on the res.
maggie		I was gonna warn ya about messin' with somebody's medicine bundle but I forgot you know all about that stuff.
ray		This Jimmy's?
maggie		You're not gonna catch him. He can shape-shift into different animals. Bear. Elk. Porcupine.
ray		Is that like an hereditary thing, Magdelana, or can one take classes?
maggie		Jimmy didn't kill Leo. Why do you wanna do this?
ray		He tried to kill him twice before. That's a good place to start don't ya think? Leo was on the other side, wasn't he?
maggie		-- Leo was an apple, that's right. Red on the outside, white on the inside. And Jimmy hated him. Kicked his ass a coupla times. But he didn't kill him.
ray		Who did?
maggie		You're the FBI. That's your job, isn't it? Ya know how many of our Warrior brothers got killed out here? I never saw any investigating then. Why now? What's going down here?
ray		A Fugitive Alert for a murder suspect. Before somebody else gets a shotgun blast in the spine.
maggie		Try the Fort Laramie Treaty. All over again.
ray		Look. You and I can stand here in a culture clash til the sun comes up, talking about what's right and what's wrong. You're from the reservation. It's a different world.
maggie		I'm from Minneapolis. Fifth Street. I did four years at Dartmouth before I ever set foot on this res. So I know about the other world, Ray.
maggie		Are you gonna keep that medicine bundle or are you gonna respect its power?
maggie		Thank you.
ray		When you see Jimmy, tell him the sooner he turns himself back into a human being and gives himself in... the sooner we back off this reservation. Okay?
maggie		Grandpa Reaches says you come from heavy Indian blood. I used to think Grandpa was gettin' senile. Now I know he is.
ray		Move it, Magdelana.
cooch		Ray, you alright?
agent sherman		What do we got, Ray?
ray		It was just Eagle Bear. I questioned and released her.
cooch		What'd she say?
ray		She talks a lot of shit. We're not doing our job. Jimmy's innocent. "What's the FBI really doing here." Some shit about the Fort Laramie Treaty.
ray		She took something from the house. What she called a medicine bundle. Most likely Jimmy's.
cooch		Let's see it.
ray		I gave it back to her.
agent sherman		Why?
ray		If it is Jimmy's, she's taking it to him. We'll have a runner. But I borrowed a little mojo...
cooch		Way to go, Raymond. Miles, take that to lab. Sherman, I want you to go back to base and produce some written material. Something that indicates that our girl Maggie is leaking information to us. And make sure that material finds its way into the hands of the Warrior Movement.
cooch		You gentlemen missed that medicine basket. Go back through the house, and make sure you missed nothing else. And lay some wire, too. Let's do it.
cooch		That's good goddamn work, Ray. Let the salmon run. Let 'em run Upriver.
ray		Why we setting Eagle Bear up as an informant?
cooch		Her own people start to suspect her, it creates discord from within. The Warriors don't know who to trust, they start infighting, and Jimmy loses his support.
cooch		Her oil pan is shot.
ray		Cooch. What's the Fort Laramie Treaty?
cooch		Jesus, I don't know. You tell me. You're the Indian.
cooch		Get a tail on her, Ray.
ray		Cooch.  Where the fuck did they send us?
cooch		A long way from home. You be careful out there.
ray		For all I know, you're Jimmy. And you're just waiting for a shot at my jugular. Drink, Jimmy. Milk is good for you --
crow horse		Don't be mad. That was just an old traditional gesture that means hello, how are you.
ray		I see. Forgive my cultural ignorance.
ray		Have a nice day.
crow horse		Jimmy didn't do it, Ray. I checked it out. You can stop taggin' my sister.
ray		She's your sister?
ray		Gotchya. We just nailed a genetic match between the eagle feather left at the murder site and one in Jimmy's medicine bundle. It came from a white eagle. Same bird.
crow horse		So did this one. Wambli is a rare and sacred creature. When someone finds a dead one, the feathers get around the res. We share everything. A lot of power in the eagle feathers. But you think that's bullshit too, don't --
ray		 Electromagnetic printing.
crow horse		Was-te. 'Cept for one thing. Jimmy Looks Twice was nowhere near there. Ya see, when Jimmy was twelve years old, his mother and father was killed in a car wreck right down there near Elk Mountain.
ray		I don't see the connection.
crow horse		The connection is, it did a head number on him. He's petrified of cars. Won't drive. I've known him all my life, and he's never gotten behind the wheel of a vehicle. He rides passenger and he rides horses, and that's it. The man that shot Leo down was behind the wheel of a moving car.
ray		That's not solid.
crow horse		You want solid? That one, single, print he left in the Badlands -- the one the FBI missed and then stepped all over -- it belongs to a man who walks heels first. Like a white man. Jimmy has a serious Ind'n walk -- ball of the foot first. The man who murdered Leo walked like a Wasi'cu.
ray		You're saying a white guy did it...
crow horse		When Leo was dumped out there in the Badlands, he was dropped on his back. Our man made an effort to turn him over, onto his face. It's an old Ind'n belief that if a dead man is turned face down, his spirit won't leave. And in the killer's case, it won't come back and jump all over his shit. That's an Ind'n thing a white man wouldn't know.
crow horse		And that's the way it is. Write it down.
crow horse		You laugh all you want, Breed. Sunset tonight, I get my man.
ray		Alright, Crow Horse. I'm listening. I'm listening to the trees, to the stones. Who is it?
crow horse		Damned if I know.
crow horse		But the Old One. He did a Yuwipi ceremony last night.
ray		The old man? He's gonna tell you who killed Leo?
crow horse		Go catch Jimmy, Ray. Really. He's gettin' away. Go ahead, go get him. I'm late.
ray		Hey. Hey, those are my sunglasses you're wearing.
crow horse		Grandpa traded with me.  Goodbye.
crow horse		He says, back behind Red Deer Table, where the Elk-People-used-to-live... there are strange creatures from another world who eat stones... and who will kill anyone who crosses into this place.
crow horse		He says, in the Yuwipi ceremony last night, he saw you... going back into the land beyond Red Deer Table. I was with you. But that was all the Spirits let him see so he doesn't know if you were killed or not. But he thinks you probably were.
crow horse		Go to the land where the Elk-People- used-to-live and you will find the answers you came here looking for. But you must go as two. That is the vision. I have spoken. And this is so.
crow horse		He wants to trade.  He likes your watch.
ray		I can't do that,  It's a Rolex.
crow horse		A what?
ray		I'm sorry, this is --  Tell him this is an expensive watch.
crow horse		He says, you need to go on Indian time. He says your watch is ruining your life anyway.
crow horse		Red Deer Table, Ray.
ray		Don't tell me: heavy duty.
crow horse		Heavy, heavy duty. Taku Wakan. Wanagi Spirits. It's one of those few places we'd never go to as kids. Still don't. Some of the old people say Crazy Horse is buried back there. We have to go Ray. Together. Like his vision.
ray		Walter. When I fill out my 302, do I say that evil spirits are killing everybody on the reservation?
crow horse		Ray --
ray		-- no. No offense to the old man. I appreciate you trying to help. But I put my ass on the line coming out here, man.
crow horse		What'd you expect to hear?
ray		Not Native American myths and legends. I'm with the FBI, Walter, remember? Not National Geographic.
crow horse		What you call myths, we call our history.
ray		It's not real.
crow horse		What's real to you? Wall Street? Capital Hill? Now they are myths.
ray		I can't be dicking around here. That's all I'm saying. I don't carry crystals, I don't wanna come back in another life. I just wanna do my job, and do it right, and get the fuck outta here.
crow horse		You ain't no Indian. You're a Sal Mineo Indian.
grandpa		Will ya knock it off? You're actin' like a couple of old women.
grandpa		For cryin' out loud. Knock it off.
ray		He speaks English.
crow horse		Only when he's really pissed off.
grandpa		Come inside. Watch TV.
crow horse		Don't accuse nothin' of not bein' real, Little Weasel. Cuz the only thing around here that ain't real is you.
ray		Take care of yourself, Walter.
crow horse		Likewise.
sa sherman		We've gotten word that Jimmy has been trying to hook up with Maggie Eagle Bear... but some of the Warriors have been sending word to Jimmy that she may be an FBI operative. So he doesn't know where to go.
cooch		Bingo. It's working.
sherman		He's out of room. All the reservation exits have been watchdogged. We got him. I give it twelve hours.
ray		Well we better use those twelve hours to apprehend the right man.
cooch		The right man? Talk to me, Ray.
ray		Whoever dusted Leo, dusted him from the driver's seat of a moving car then drove those eight miles to the Badlands. Jimmy Looks Twice has never been behind the wheel of a car. It's a known fact out here that he's petrified of driving. His parents were killed in a car wreck.
sherman		That's not very solid.
ray		There was also a print found in the Badlands that indicated diagetic locomotion. Heels first. Jimmy's walking pattern doesn't match. He has a distinct Indian walk.
sa miles		Indian walk? You been smoking hooch in the peace pipe, Ray?
ray		They don't smoke hooch in The Pipe, Miles. They smoke something called kinickinick, it's like a tobacco.
sa sherman		Well, you're right about X21 being a Washington Redskin, that's for sure. What else, Ray?
cooch		You boys want a soda?
sa miles		Oh, yeah, a Coke. You buying?
cooch		No, Ray's buying. Sherman? Coke?
sherman		Oh... no. No, Cooch, I'm working on a coffee here. Indian walk?
cooch		Genetic ditto on evidence found at the site with evidence you found in his belongings. An incontrovertible motive. And definite footprints on Jimmy Looks Twice at Maisy Blue Legs house.
ray		When did we get that?
cooch		Today. And now you -- there's a dog in the van --
ray		-- I know. I fed it, and I can't get rid of --
cooch		You weren't sent here to go off on your own detail, Ray. You were sent here to assist in a Selective Operations Unit. These regional agents are inept -- that's why they were sent out here to The Graveyard, to Indian Country. I need you behind me, Ray. Not pulling against me.
ray		I'm not trying to pull against you, Cooch. I've just been having nightmares about the way Leo was killed.
cooch		Your first homicide, that's gonna happen, Ray...
ray		I just wanna make sure no one else gets done in that way because we were in bed with the wrong doer.
cooch		Ray. I never get into bed with somebody unless I know for sure. Just the way I was raised.
ray		Alright. Alright...
cooch		 Yeah, alright, alright -- fuck you -- give a yuppie a badge and he wants to take over the world. Go get a tail on Eagle Bear, and stay with her. Cuz Jimmy's gonna show. And I want you to make the collar.
cooch		Ray.
cooch		I'll sleep around a little.
ray		Thanks, Cooch.
cooch		And get rid of the dog.
ray		 Motherfucker.
cooch		Bastards...
ray		All I could think of was... not here. I don't wanna eat it on an Indian Reservation, three thousand miles from home.
cooch		He's out there. He's out there playing Sitting Bull with us. I want the motherfucker so bad I'm getting a bleeding ulcer.
ray		It may have been Maggie's way of saying "get off my ass."
cooch		She's that subtle?
ray		Eagle's claws and a bear's balls that's what her profile says.
cooch		Well, she's running now, too. These fucking people like to run, don't --
ray		-- Cooch. Woh. Stop.
cooch		Tread matches. It's the car.
ray		Yes.
cooch		But this doesn't make any sense, Ray. If it's just been sitting in this dry wash for seven days... why the hell didn't we find it?
ray		Because this isn't a dry wash.
ray		It's the Little Walking River.
ray		And it was full of water when I drove by here three days ago. Full. I mean... a river.
cooch		The Little Walking River. You're right. This is part of it. So whoever sunk this car didn't compensate for drought. Goddamn.
ray		Listen to the water...
crow horse		Agent Little Weasel, Federal Bura of your Imagination.
ray		Jesus Christ. You're hammered. What are you doing?
crow horse		You're right about the old man. His power's long dried up. He's supposed to be a medicine man but he won't go see the people. He says we changed, and we don't listen. Well, he don't go out and talk no more. I haven't had a drink in three years but I just turned my sobriety chip into that man behind the bar, and this Hoss is gettin' watered.
ray		Cut the shit. You shouldn't be in here, Man.
crow horse		Cuz I'm a skin?
ray		Cuz you're a cop.
crow horse		Not no more.
ray		What are you talking about?
crow horse		You tell me. You tell me who went to the B.I.A. -- Bureau of Indian Annihilation and said I was messin' with your case, man. I don't give a goddamn about your case.
ray		And I don't give a goddamn about whether you wear a badge or not, Crow Horse, but I didn't cut you.
crow horse		Still after Jimmy?
ray		They found prints at Blue Legs' place.
crow horse		Yeah. Jimmy's prints are there. But they cross over Benjamin Black Star's prints. And he wasn't there until six o'clock the mornin' after to get eggs from the chickens. So Jimmy wasn't there til the next day. Follow?
crow horse		Look, man... you better bust Jimmy and get out before somebody shoots up more than your car next time.
ray		Next time I'll be ready. You get the word to who ever it is.
crow horse		I can't, Hoss. I don't talk to FBI's.
crow horse		You think you was sent here cuz you're a good cop?
ray		No. I was sent here cuz I'm Indian. And a good cop.
crow horse		You ever think that maybe you was sent here cuz the FBI's need one good reason to take out the entire Warrior Movement. And what better reason than one of their men, gettin' blown away on the res. A low-rent, expendable public servant sent in to take a bullet for his country.
ray		I'm sick of your shit --
crow horse		Sorry, we don't speak United States.
rancher's son		Yeah, well I do. Get the Jesus up, and get the Jesus out or I'm gonna go out to my truck and come back with my hardware.
ray		Woh, hold on there, Jack, you're --
rancher's son		-- don't "jack" me, Squanto. I'll bury your lazy ass right here.
rancher's son		I'm talkin' to --
brooks		No! No, you butt holes! He ain't skin! He AIN'T SKIN!
crow horse		Yeah he's In'dn. Miniconjou Sioux.
rancher's son		You ain't Indian?
older rancher		What's so damn funny?
crow horse		Well, it's just that the cavalry used to always threaten the Lakota. The cavalry ain't around anymore. The Lakota still are.
rancher's son		I got no trouble tellin' where you come from, Fat Red.
bar man		Sorry. On the house.
ray		No plates. No registration. Serial numbers removed. And all prints washed off by the river. That's great. This is turning out to be a walk in the park, do you know that?
radio		 Come back?
ray		Never mind.
ray		I read, Cooch.
radio		Remember that upside down flag back at Jimmy's house? Somebody took it down.
ray		Good.
radio		They took it down, set fire to it, and threw it on the doorstep of room 13 at the Buffalo Butte Motel. Your room.
radio		We traced the number of the truck that dumped it, and it belongs to one Maggie Sanders, also known as Maggie Eagle Bear. She's been all over the res, riling up the traditionals, telling them not to break, and to keep Jimmy in hiding. She's a problem now. And she's yours. Get her off the reservation.
little girl		Are they all right under here?
maggie		Two-hundred and sixty-seven men, women, old people. And little ones like you. Many killed running along that road you see there.
little boy		Where were they runnin' to?
maggie		A place called The Stronghold.  They died for a dream. But you live. You are their great-great grandchildren and you live. We have to honor their dream. Of protecting the Mother Earth. And being proud of being Indian.
little boy		My mother told me that they call us Indians cuz Columbus was lookin' for India when he discovered our country.
maggie		Yeah, well, let me tell you something, Henry: just be glad he wasn't looking for Turkey.
maggie		Richard. Sing the Honoring Song with them. I'll be right back.
maggie		We're praying at the grave. Do you wanna join us?
ray		No, Maggie. But you're gonna have to join me for a ride. I'm taking you to Rapid City.
maggie		So much power. I see it in your eyes. This... hunger for power. Or for what you think is power.
ray		You burned an American flag today. And left it for me...
maggie		-- You desecrated it, it had to be burned.
ray		I desecrated it?
maggie		You forced an innocent man to run like an animal. You've tried to poison my people's hearts against me with your manipulation, with letters I never wrote... you've been watching me eat, work, raise my family... wash myself in the river. And now you're here, arresting me at a sacred place.  In your eyes, that's power.
maggie		So I plant this tree for you. And I take all this stuff that you've laid on me and my people, and I put it in this hole with this pine cone.  And The Mother will turn your lies into something that lives.
maggie		That's what power is, in the Indian way.  Take me to Rapid, Ray. I'm the enemy.
ray		If I told you... that I think Jimmy's innocent... but I'm in over my head... would you believe me?
maggie		See those Black Hills out there, Ray? When the people lost the land in 1868, the government took everything but those hills. They allowed us to keep those Black Hills, to live there. Signed a treaty. Until they found gold. Then they told us we had to leave because of National interest. They broke that treaty. Anyone who fought or spoke out against it, wound up dead or in jail. And the people wound up here. On a reservation.
maggie		While up there, in the Black Hills... they carved the faces of four presidents.
maggie		Your relatives must've taught you something.
ray		NO.  My father never told anybody he had Indian blood. But he still used a few Indian words around the house. He called me Washee. Said it meant... good boy.
ray		What?
maggie		Wa-shee is like... a dumpling. Like tallow we put in stew. I think he was calling you chubby boy.
ray		Great.
ray		You ever see that car before?
ray		Who's it belong to?
ray		Help me, Maggie...
ray		I didn't see you today, Maggie.  Goodbye.
maggie		Goodbye... Wa-shee.
ray		Anyone who fought or spoke out against it... wound up dead or in jail.
ray		 That was 1868, Maggie...
cooch		Jesus, you alright?
ray		Yeah. I... I fell asleep. I can't believe it. I --
cooch		Never turn your radio off! I thought I was gonna find you scalped! Damn it!
ray		Sorry, Cooch. I lost Eagle Bear --
cooch		-- never mind Eagle Bear. We've got Jimmy nailed. Let's go!
cooch		HANDS ON YOUR HEAD!
sherman		Where is he, Sam? Where's Jimmy?
sherman		He's a medicine man, Ray. The "spiritual leader" of the Warriors. That right, Sam?
cooch		Trailer's clean, let's go.
sherman		You been the one making it rain like that, out there, Sam?
ray		Hey, put that down.
sherman		Can you make Jimmy outrun an M-16, Sam?
ray		Sherman!
miles		EASY, MEN! HEY! --
radio		HE'S ON THE ROOF! HE'S ON THE FUCKING ROOF! COME ON GUYS, COME ON, GUYS!
looks twice		Brother, the old man told me about you. Listen to me: what was Leo trying to tell me? He wanted to meet me at Maisy --
fed		Save your speeches for prison, Jimmy.
cooch		Damn. That's one hard running Indian.
cooch		It's over, Ray. I aged five years. But it's over. At least I'm gonna look like I'm ready for the advisory desk. Let's go get a beer.
ray		Look... I'm not who you think I am.  I'm sorry.
grandpa		Out back that way... is a placed called Wounded Knee.
grandpa		I was one years old there when our people were shot down. My mother hid me in the snow in a blanket. One of those killed was a Holy Man called Wakiyan Cante -- Thunder Heart. They killed him while he was running for The Stronghold. It is his blood -- the same blood that spilled on the grass and snow at Wounded Knee -- that runs through your heart like a buffalo.
grandpa		Thunder Heart has come. Sent here to a troubled place to help his people. That's what I am told. Maybe you're right and I am mistaken. Your mind is young, mine is old. If so, so be it. Ho Hecetu Yelo. I'll speak no more.
cooch		Buffalo burgers and cold beer, Raymond. Don't worry about the sign out front... you don't have to be Indian anymore.
cooch		You have a fever. You okay?
cooch		Listen: when we get back tomorrow, you're gonna find Tully laying a promotion on you. S.A.C. He wants to prove that his yuppie agents are making good. He's offering you New York. Tell him you want Atlanta.
ray		Why?
cooch		Cuz I want New York.
ray		Cooch. They sent us out here because the place was being neglected. Now, all of a sudden, there's two five man SWAT teams out there tonight. Bell Huey choppers flying all over the place. Federal occupation to catch one guy. Why, Cooch? What's going on?
cooch		National security, Ray. Get some sleep. Tomorrow, we fly.
ray		I'm looking for Richard Yellow Bird.
yellow bird		The Washington Redskin. Thought you'd be gone by now.
yellow bird		What ya want?
ray		Must be a bitch getting around in that wheelchair. How long you been in it?
yellow bird		Since I got a iron pipe put across my knees, man. Fight with three wasi'cus, ya know.
ray		At Sioux Falls Pen?
yellow bird		No, that was Leavenworth. This --  was Sioux Falls. What ya want?
ray		Leavenworth a tough joint?
yellow bird		You ever try solitary confinement?
ray		No. Can't say that I have, Richard. Richard do you know why I'm here?
yellow bird		Washington sent ya. I know that.
ray		Yes, Washington sent me, Richard. They sent me here because this whole thing has been fucked. Do you know what I mean when I say this whole thing has been fucked, Richard?
ray		An arrangement was made between you... and us. Do you remember that arrangement?
yellow bird		I'm here, ain't I?
ray		Not for long, Richard. You got early parole under the stipulation that you would help us in a situation, and you didn't deliver.
yellow bird		What the fuck you talkin' about?
ray		Get up out of the chair, Richard.
yellow bird		What's with you people? Why do ya have to fuck with my head all the time? I came through, man.
ray		Get up out of the chair, and walk toward the backdoor, Richard.
yellow bird		 I get thrown in solitary until I don't know my own fuckin' name, and then you people tell me I can beat nine years if I help you. I helped you!
ray		Get up!
yellow bird		They said I'd never see FBI again, and I'm livin' with you fuckers. I don't feed ya information on the Warriors, it's back to the pen. I don't do this, back to the pen. Your word against my word. Against a con Indian's word. I really got a chance, man, right?
ray		They sent me here, Richard because they said you didn't hold up your end of the arrangement, and I have to transport you back to Leavenworth.
yellow bird		 What the fuck, man? What do you people want? I did what you wasi'cu's told me to do.
ray		Leo Fast Elk... is alive.
yellow bird		No way. No fuckin' way.
ray		How the hell do you know?
yellow bird		I blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how I know! Now you're gonna say I didn't, so you can throw me back in solitary?
ray		The men who came to see you at Leavenworth. The one's who made the arrangement... who were they? Maybe I can talk to them.
yellow bird		Miles. Three other suits. That's all I know 'em as -- suits. Were you there?
ray		You turned Leo over on his face. But the coyotes must've turned him back over, man, cuz his spirit is out. It's out, and it knows.
yellow bird		What do you know about spirits? You ain't no In'dn.
ray		Leo knew something heavy and was trying to tell Jimmy. But you must not know how serious it was or you would have delivered. Do you realize what Leo could have told Jimmy?! Do you?!
yellow bird		I took him out before he got the chance. He didn't say nothin' about Tashka Sha. And now his spirit is in the dirt. Forever.
ray		What's Tashka Sha, speak English, speak English!
yellow bird		Red Deer Table! What's with you, man?
yellow bird		Wait a minute. Wait -- what are you doin'? You ain't a FBI. You ain't the law. Let me see your --
ray		I'm the fucking law!
ray		Keep talking, Yellow Bird...
yellow bird		All I know... is I did what I did... and I ain't in solitary, gettin' pumped up with downer, gettin' beat to shit. But I tell you what, Suit. Take me back. Cuz I can't take this shit no more.
yellow bird		Man, I don't know who the fuck I am no more.
ray		You and me both.
ray		Maggie!
crow horse		Five-hundred year old turtleshell rattle...
ray		Crow Horse, listen --
crow horse		Where's Maggie? Where'd ya take her.
ray		Nowhere. I'm trying to find her.
crow horse		You got Jimmy. Let her go.
ray		Crow Horse, listen. You have to come with me.
crow horse		Why? So you can get rid of me, too?
ray		No. So we can do what the old man said. Red Deer Table, Walter. We have to go.
crow horse		Maybe the old man's visions are still strong.
ray		Do they come in dreams, these visions?
crow horse		Oh yeah. Dreams. Sometimes durin' sickness. Vision quest. Sweat Lodge. Ya never know when.
ray		Just before we caught Jimmy... I had a dream that I was being chased. And I was running with other people. Old- fashion Indian people. I got shot in the back. Like Leo.
crow horse		Where was this?
ray		At Wounded Knee. I mean, that's where I was, and that's where the dream was. Why?
crow horse		You were running with the old ones. At The Knee. Heavy duty.
ray		Well, it was just a dream, I --
crow horse		Sonuvabuck! What's with you, Man? Who are you?
ray		What do you mean?
crow horse		Nothin'. Forget it.
crow horse		You had a vision. You had yourself a vision. A man waits a long time for a vision. Might go his whole lifetime and never get one. And along comes some instant Indian with a Mastercard and brand-new shoes, has himself a vision.
ray		Sorry.
crow horse		I'm a full-blood Oglala.
ray		We've driven a long way. Where is this place?
crow horse		Maybe it was just a dream. Ya know, just one of them, what do ya call 'em, fitful dreams?
ray		Yeah. Fitful dreams.
crow horse		Bullshit. You had a vision. You got sign from the old ones.
ray		What the hell do you want me to do?!
crow horse		Stop.
ray		What's that?
crow horse		Ain't prayer flags, that's for sure.
ray		Jesus. Oil?
crow horse		Uranium. Test holes. Somebody came in from the Nebraska side, and did some shotgun testin'. They're gettin' ready to suck this baby dry.
crow horse		What?
ray		That's what we're doing here. National interest. National security. Only this time it's not gold. It's uranium.
crow horse		We're standin' on broken treaty ground, Ray. This ain't supposed to be here. It'll poison the water.
ray		Leo knew about it. Tried to tell Jimmy, get the Warriors involved.
crow horse		So they took care of Leo.
ray		Listen to the water... the river keeps goin' down then rising again.
crow horse		They're drainin' our water table. That's our life, man...
ray		No. No...
ray		This Clear Moon's house?
crow horse		Yeah. It's time to beat the drum. You better wait here. He don't trust the white man.
crow horse		Alright. Shit's comin' down. He's callin' council fire. All the old chiefs and the warriors, too. I gotta be at Grandpa's place in two hours. We need to get the tribe together. We need to block this thing.
ray		What we need... is Richard Yellow Bird.
crow horse		I thought it was a rare case of a brother getting a break in the courts. We did an honorin' song for him and everything.
ray		He's looking at a few hundred years in Leavenworth. He's not gonna come out without a fight.
radio		Ray. What's your 20?
ray		Reservation.
radio		What are you doing on the reservation?
ray		I'm on my way back in. Over.
crow horse		Ray. Ray, don't let go now, Man. Ray...
ray		You go to the council fire. I'm going back in.
crow horse		Ray.
crow horse		Ray!
cooch		 Couldn't sleep, Ray?
ray		No...
ray		I had to finish something with Crow Horse.
cooch		That's where you were. You had to go back and have it out with the Indian law...
cooch		You fucking hot head, we can get in trouble for that.
ray		Why didn't you tell me what we were doing here?
ray		We're running a cover-up and you didn't --
cooch		You ever put your hands on me again and you'll be doing the books for a baitshop in the fucking Everglades, Mister.
ray		You didn't tell me about Red Deer Table --
cooch		-- what the hell is Red Deer Table?
ray		What is it? It's genocide, that's what it is. It's a Pay Zone for some U.S. corporation and a Dead Zone for the people here. Uranium, Cooch.
cooch		Jesus Christ. What are you doing? What the hell were you doing out there?
cooch		This was a Selective Operations Unit, Agent Levoi. There is classified information pertaining to our national security. You don't question that, you don't go digging into that shit -- that's insubordination. Jesus Christ --
ray		-- if they mine uranium there, these people will have no place left to go...
cooch		We were sworn in on the Constitution to protect federal matters, Ray. I don't know about uranium, I don't know about Red Dog Table -- all I know is we did our job. It's over.
ray		We neutralized anybody with a voice. Leo, Jimmy... Eagle Bear. Anyone who was standing in the way of the land. Is that it?
cooch		No. We neutralized enemies of the United States. Anti-American radicals who have killed federal officers out here!
cooch		Jesus, Ray. You think I don't like the Indians? Not true. These were noble people but their day is gone. They're a conquered nation. They want all of America back but they can't even keep the garbage out of their own front yards. It's sad, Ray. But it's just the way it is. We have to function as a colonial police force out here.
miles		You gentlemen ready -- hi, Ray.
cooch		Yeah, we're ready.
clear moon		Ah, there you are. The Sioux.
clear moon		You got the troublemakers off our land. Good, Was-te.
cooch		RAY!
cooch		No, damn it. You call teams in and this is gonna be a fucking media event. Get me three cars, six agents, block all reservation exits. It's under control.
ray		Crow Horse!
ray		Crow Horse!
crow horse		Ain't no Council Fire, Brother. Clear Moon...
ray		I know. Come on. We gotta get off the reservation or we're dead.
crow horse		Hoka Hey. It's a good day to die.
ray		Bullshit, let's get outta here,
crow horse		Grandpa...
radio		X21, please read. Ray. Ray. X21, please read. This is Cooch. Please come in, Ray. Where are you?
ray		He's gone.
crow horse		He hasn't left this place in twenty years. They got him.
miles		We have a renegade agent, Cooch? He gets off the reservation...
cooch		-- he's not getting off the reservation.
crow horse		They got us sealed. What are we gonna do?
ray		We're going for The Stronghold.
radio		 This is President Clear Moon. This nation does not want your sympathy. You cannot use this reservation as a sanctuary. Stop where you are now.
radio		 Whatever you are trying to do is futile, Raymond. You have nothing. Nothing.
ray		Yellow bird... is gonna sing.
radio		 Yellow Bird committed suicide at three o'clock this morning. Some gung-ho agent from D.C. pushed him into a corner. You're playing a losing game. Pull over.
recorder		 I blew his back out with a buffalo gun, that's how I know. And now you're gonna say I didn't and put me back in solitary?!
radio		 I could beat nine years if I helped you. I helped you!
ray		 Fuck you.
ray		Walter.
crow horse		That's it. The Stronghold. Get us in there, we got a chance.
ray		We're in there. We're in there --
cooch		 FREEZE! NOW!
cooch		DROP IT.
cooch		Crow Horse, get your face in the dirt. Ray... come forward. Let it go. Let's just let it go...
ray		No way, Cooch.
cooch		Ray. I'm coming to talk to you. I'm gonna walk you out of here. And we're gonna get the hell outta this place.
ray		You're right, Cooch. It's over.
chasing hawk		All the exits are blocked. There's two more fed cars tryin' to get in. And some press.
cooch		Ray...
ray		Let the press through.
crow horse		The people are already talkin' about their vote for a new tribal prez. They wanna vote for Jimmy.
ray		What about the water...
crow horse		You bought her some time, Kola. Ain't never gonna be over... but you bought her some time.
ray		Some Indian time?
crow horse		Indian time.
crow horse		 Where ya gonna go, Ray?
ray		I'll have to see what the visions say about that one.
crow horse		You didn't have another vision...
crow horse		Yeah, right here.
ray		You take care.
crow horse		If you ever need a place to come back to and listen to the trees a little... we'll be here.
crow horse		Ain't no word in Sioux for goodbye.
****Dialogues from script :Ticker.txt****

rice		Know what the problem is, kid?   You're too ugly to get propositioned.
reilly		Look who's talking, old man.
rice		C'mon, it's a quiet night.
rice		Next week we work the park.
reilly		I gotta get back on top.   Get off the sleaze detail.
rice		You will, one day at a time.   I'll be old and grey when it happens...
bag lady		A small gift, sir, for the Queen ...
rice		Here you go, your Highness.
bag lady		Thank you, officer.
reilly		So what'll you do? After they give you the gold watch.
rice		Hell, I got a gold watch... it just don't work. Maybe they'll give me a new fishing pole, or something useful.
reilly		You don't fish.
rice		How hard can it be? The grand kids been buggin' me about taking them camping.
reilly		You outta the city... that's a fish out of water. What's with all this family talk lately, anyway?
rice		One of these days you're gonna get tired of fighting the shit. When that happens, you'll wish you had family.
reilly		No thanks.   I got close but it never woulda worked.
rice		Why don't you just shoot it and put it out of its misery?
reilly		What are you talking about, it's purring like a kitty.
rice		I thought you said what's-her-name's brother was going to fix it.
reilly		She didn't work out, had to cut her loose.
rice		What was it this time?
reilly		She wanted to cook me breakfast.
rice		We're vice, I didn't see no pimps or hookers in that van. But if you're so gung-ho, we'd best call it in for some back-up.
reilly		Nah, let's just take a look-see.
reilly		Ow!   Son-of-a-bitch.
rice		You okay?
reilly		Yeah, just a nick ...
rice		Freeze!   Police!
reilly		 Drop it!
swan		Let her go.
earring		 We gotta get outta here!
reilly		 Tell them to drop it - now!
swan		You have no idea how sorry you're going to be.  Don't worry.
rice		Mike...
reilly		Don't talk.
rice		Take your time... one day at a time, kid...
reilly		It don't work-
rice		 Ain't that a shit--
harry		Hey, Reilly, Captain's looking for you.
winters		Prints?
pluchinsky		Nothing so far.
winters		What about the ballistics report?
pluchinsky		Lab's backed up, we're still waiting for it.
reilly		Captain...
winters		Reilly, what the hell happened out there?   Why didn't you call for back-up?
reilly		 Sir, I--
reilly		I want to work this.
pluchinsky		You're vice, not homicide. Besides, you don't have the experience and you're too personally involved.
reilly		But sir--
winters		You know the rules. You're off the street `til I.A.D. clears the investigation. Now go home and clean yourself up, get some rest...
harry		She won't talk. Look at this shit, no I.D., nothing...
pluchinsky		What's that?
harry		Bracelet she was wearing.
reilly		Looks like the stuff my dad used to use to blow up tree stumps back in Scranton.
pluchinsky		Maybe she knows your old man.
winters		Take it down to the Bomb Squad, Artie-
reilly		I'll do it.
winters		Okay, kid.    Run this down to the Cave.
bev		May I help you?
reilly		I'm looking for the Bomb Squad.
bev		They're not here.
reilly		Where are they?
bev		And you are...?
reilly		Officer Reilly, vice.
bev		There out on a call, perhaps I can help you-
reilly		-Where?
bev		2600 block of Lakefront.   A limousine.   But, I-
reilly		Thanks.
reilly		 Bomb Squad.
pooch		Smell anything, Schnoz?    Me, neither.
glass		Who the heck're you?
reilly		You the Bomb Squad?
glass		We're a bit busy at the moment, I'll give you a statement in a few minutes if we're still alive.
reilly		 Reilly, Vice. I-
pooch		Schnoz says it's loaded.    Good boy, Schnozzie.
glass		Alright boys, look close.   Let's assess.
pooch		Whadaya think, "boy" or "girl"?
glass		It's a "girl" !
pooch		No shit.   I better send Meg flowers just in case.
reilly		Who's in charge here?
pooch		He is!
reilly		Look, it's important.
reilly		It's about this.
glass		Where did you get this?
reilly		Off a girl's wrist.    A suspect...
reilly		What?
glass		High-grade det cord. This girl, either she's got strange taste in jewelry or she's into serious demolition.
reilly		What do you mean?
pooch		Fire in the hole!
glass		Sorry about that.  That's an inch of the stuff, imagine what the whole thing'd do.
reilly		Thanks.
glass		Hey wait a minute-
pooch		That'd be some explosive pussy he's got his hands on.
earring		They're holding her downtown.
swan		What about the cop?
beard		If you'd let me waste him.
earring		What if she talks?
swan		She won't.
beard		I say we split town. Come back to this job when things cool. We've got other contracts - Denver, Seattle...
swan		I want her back and we do the job.
beard		I thought we agreed, the personal can't interfere with the professional.
earring		Besides, we're on a schedule and the cops won't let her go.
swan		Unless we make them.
earring		Hey...
reilly		Captain-
officer		Captain, line one!
winters		 I thought I told you--
officer		He says it's important, something about the Rice shooting.
winters		Winters.
swan's voice		I said release the girl or alot of people are going to die.
winters		Wait, what do you mean--?
pluchinsky		What the hell was that?
reilly		A ticking bomb...
winters		What?
reilly		 It's detonation cord, for a bomb.
pluchinsky		It's a bluff. The guy's full of crap.
winters		We can't take the chance. Ring down to the Bomb Squad. I want them on alert.
reilly		I'll do it.
winters		Goddamit, Reilly--
reilly		Look, I saw these guys, I can i.d. them.
winters		I know you're anxious to get back but... just stay out of homicide's way or I'll have you classifying fingerprints, understand?
reilly		Yes, sir.
pooch		No, honey, I'm fine. Yeah, well, you're welcome. You deserve flowers more often.
glass		Bev, you're the greatest...
bev		Hey, that's the guy-
reilly		We just got a bomb threat upstairs.
glass		Alright, let's check it out.
reilly		We can start in the area where the robbery occurred.
reilly		Captain assigned me to assist you.
pooch		Assist?   What the hell you know about tickers anyway?
glass		Easy, guys. 
reilly		What're you talking about?
glass		When you need us, you love us, when you don't, we're shunned by the rest of the department.
reilly		We've got one hour.     Are you coming or not?
pooch		 What do you think?
glass		Call upstairs, see what you can find out.
pooch		Right.
glass		 T.J., run a trace on this, see if you can pin down where it came from. Whoever these people are, let's hope they're all talk.
swan		What time is it?
earring		Twenty after.
beard		Swan, it's no use. Look, we can still make Houston--
swan		Shut up!
earring		Hey, beautiful, can I buy you some bangers and mash? Pint of Guiness?
knockout		Fuck off, pal.
fire chief		Eight dead, so far.
pluchinsky		What're you doing here?
reilly		You touch me again and--
pluchinsky		And what, you'll shoot me? Hey, don't mistake me for one of your partners, I'd like to make retirement in one piece.
winters		What the hell's going on?
pluchinsky		Son-of-a-bitch... my nose...   This fuck-up is interfering with-
winters		Reilly, what're you doing here?
reilly		Sir...
winters		I thought I told you--
glass		Hope you don't mind, Captain, might help us catch these guys that much sooner.  Coming?
winters		Go ahead, kid.
pluchinsky		I'm filing charges against that mother-
winters		Can it, Pluchinsky. And shove some cotton up your nose.
reilly		What was-?   Why...?
glass		That cop who bought it... you didn't tell us he was your partner.
glass		Let's get something straight. We're doing you a favor. You're not exactly a guy we want around explosives.
reilly		What?
glass		This isn't bumper cars, it's brain surgery. You wanna work with us, you do it our way, understand?
reilly		Now wait just a fucking-
glass		Be cool around my men, they don't trust strangers. And try not to swear so much, it's unattractive.
glass		By the way, I'm Glass.   This is T.J., and Pooch.
reilly		Mike Reilly.
pooch		That there's Schnoz, mascot and ace bomb sniffer. Say hi, Schnozzie.
pooch		Nitro, dash of Semtrex, vegetable oil ...
reilly		What kind of bomb was it?
reilly		Huh?
glass		We don't use the b-word.      Bad luck.
reilly		So you're the "Device Squad"... and you defuse "devices"?
glass		Treat.    We treat devices.
reilly		 Anything else I should know?
glass		Don't push it, slick.
pooch		I don't know...
pooch		Good boy, Schnoz. Daddy loves you.
glass		C4, plastic explosive.
pooch		Hey, check this out?
glass		Lemme see that.
glass		Unlikely. Probably, cash register or something.
reilly		I'll get back to you.
winters		Let's go, we gotta jump on him the second he calls again.
pluchinsky		You were lucky today, vice boy. Captain said to leave it alone, but just remember, I'm watching you.
reilly		I'm sorry, detective, but you're just not my type.
officer		Captain, it's him!
winters		Winters here.
swan's voice		Don't make me send another.
winters		Look, we're prepared to talk, what do you want--?
reilly		Where's the girl? The one I brought in.
booking officer		Upstairs, interrogation.
bored cop		Three hours. She's tough.
harry		Tough? Tough is "Fuck you, where's my lawyer?". This chick doesn't say boo.
reilly		Any luck?
harry		Bupkiss.    Sorry about Rice.
reilly		Captain said I could give it a crack.
harry		She ain't no hooker.   This is a murder investigation.
reilly		She was my collar. Maybe I'll get lucky. But, if you got a problem with that, talk to the Captain.
harry		I'll be in the can.
reilly		You remember me.
reilly		Let me be very clear about this. The police won't let you go. When your boyfriend realizes this, I have a feeling a lot of innocent people are going to die. Kids, families. I know you don't want that to happen.
pooch		We missed you, where'd you go?
pooch		Awright!   How bout you, Glass, how's that chip shaking?
glass		I was wrong... this didn't come from any cash register.
pooch		Whadaya mean?
glass		It's from an IRA.
pooch		Oh shit...
reilly		A what?
glass		I.R.A. device. Deadliest class of tickers in existence. Computerized, multiple sensors, booby traps, the works. First showed up in a series of I.R.A. bombings in London couple years ago. One of their boys tripped it on himself and they went back to a less complicated timers. The Girl, is she Irish?
reilly		She's not talking. But, she could be. So, obviously, you've seen one of these devices before?
glass		Only once, at Redstone.
reilly		Where...?
pooch		Shit.   We're fucked.
glass		Relax, Pooch, it's just a ticker, it's not personal.
bev		Stop it...
pooch		Shut up, T.J.!
bev		Be nice Pooch!
reilly		All of you, shut the fuck up!
glass		Nice performance back there. Where'd you learn that, Mike Ditka Sensitivity Seminar?
reilly		Hey, look--
glass		No you look, mister! First, you don't go calling my men names. It's bad for morale. Second, us "punks" happen to know a heck of alot more about police work than any vice cop ever did.
reilly		Oh yeah?     Prove it.
glass		 Drive.
reilly		The place has already be combed. Forensics pulled over a hundred sets of prints inside.
glass		Then let's go see what they missed.
glass		So what were they doing here?
reilly		I don't know. You tell me?
glass		An abandoned machine shop... nice place to build devices. Low rent, too. But, you and Rice ruined their perfect hideout.
reilly		You mentioned something called Redstone.
glass		Redstone's the army training center in Alabama where they send the cream of the crop to learn about tickers.
reilly		Cream of the crop, huh?   You?
glass		 Top of my class at West Point, thank you very much. Then off to Redstone. First half of the course we learned how to build devices... second half, we'd take them apart. Everything from firecrackers to hydrogen bombs.
reilly		Sounds like terrorist heaven.
glass		There were a few guys in my class with names like John Smith, Bill Jones. I'd see them up ahead in the hall, call their name, but they wouldn't turn around. C.I.A. Funny thing, they'd always disappear after the first half of the course.
reilly		Just how easy is it to build a... device?
glass		With a little training, you could go into a house and just from stuff in the bathroom and kitchen make something that'd finish off that alleged car of yours. Heck, didn't you ever watch MacGyver?
reilly		Girl was here. The guy in charge was over there with one of his men, the other one was back there.
glass		Typical profile, usually losers, nobodies that're afraid to confront their victims. They like scaring people. That's why they call in their threats. Same mentality as obscene phone callers.
reilly		Except they'll blow you up if you don't play along.
glass		No, ninety-ninety percent of them are full of baloney. They're into the power trip, not the damage. What scares me is that this guy is so sophisticated he could blow up whatever he wants, then disappear. The worst of the bunch, they love the challenge of creating the wildest device ever... and they love the carnage.
glass		This is where the van was parked.
reilly		Yep.
glass		Then, it's gotta be here somewhere ...
reilly		Look, it's a longshot...
glass		Bingo!
reilly		Nitro-cellulose. What is that, some kind of explosive?
glass		Industrial wood oil. Separately, any one of these things could lead in several directions, but together ...
pooch		Ka-Boooom.
bev		They make bowling balls out of vulcanized rubber ...
pooch		Resin...
glass		 A bowling alley.
reilly		 You mean you just--? ... You keep a record of... matches?
glass		Hey, matches are a very big thing in our line of work.
pooch		 "Punks", huh?
glass		Bev, give `em a call, find out what bowling alleys they supply in this area.
bev		Right!
glass		Pooch, why don't you e-mail your buddies at Langley and on the other side of the pond, see if any IRAs been popping up lately?
pooch		You got it.
glass		 We work fast enough for you?
reilly		T.J., what're you doing?
reilly		Someone who smokes French cigarettes.
glass		How long are we going to stay?
reilly		`Til we get a better lead.
pooch		Unsolved bombings in the last year... Boston, New York, Philadelphia... but no real match
reilly		Insurance?
glass		Political.
pooch		Exactly my thinking. Except, none of the targets can actually be linked to government, political or special interest concerns. They seem to be just unrelated industrial companies.   Some insured, some not. 
glass		Not bad for Bomb squad, eh?
reilly		What not bad. You've got a series of bombs, devices, that may or may not be connected, set by one or many nutjobs, who may or may not be linked.
glass		Right.
reilly		Well... it's more than we had ten minutes ago.
pooch		I got a friend over at Scotland Yard who's gonna try and reach out to a undercover guy who would know if any of the rightwingers are circulating over here. Bev's following up on the briefcase manufacturers, too.
pooch		How're you guys doing?
reilly		Still waiting for a miracle.   Go ahead.
glass		It's a small fraternity, everyone knows everyone. I'm always recruiting. Pooch is ex- D.O.D., military expert... claymores, grenades. He played linebacker at Boston College, worked a K-9 unit - that led him to the Bomb Squad... great nose, lousy fingers, we try to keep him away from the tickers. T.J. is a heck of chemist, Texas A&M engineering degree. Found him in a Militia chat room - turns out we were both monitoring the same groups. Bev is the natural born hacker, we stole her from dispatch. She had the Cave reorganized and ultra-high-tech in two months. Captain has no idea how much hardware she's "found" for us.
reilly		You guys seem pretty tight.
glass		We've gotta be. In this business, you don't exactly make alot of outside commitments.
reilly		Why do you do it?
glass		I don't know, it's strange... it's not the best career path, but when you get the bug, there's nothing you can do about it.   See, when you beat one of these things... 
reilly		Looks like Pooch's doing okay.
reilly		There he goes. He was here the whole time.
reilly		Say, thanks for the back up--
glass		He set one, the son-of-a...
reilly		 You heard him, get the fuck away, it's a bomb!
glass		Alright.   Let's assess.
tj		IRA.
pooch		Oh shit...
glass		Okay, I'm going in, nobody breathe.
reilly		So cut both.
glass		One shuts it down, one turns arms it.
reilly		Which one's which?
glass		I don't know. There's an old saying, when in doubt, cut the yellow wire.
reilly		No, I'm with you.
glass		 Is this a great job or what?
reilly		 Nothing. Nothing traceable.
pooch		I don't know, honey. I'll see. No, everything's fine, it was nothing.
glass		Meg's lasagna. Good eats, Reilly.      C'mon.
reilly		Got work to do, don't we?
pooch		In case you change your mind.
winters		What's this?
reilly		Report on the case so far.
winters		You know after a shooting I would normally take your badge and weapon, but Glass called in already and confirmed it was clean.
reilly		Yes, sir.
winters		But from now on, any leads on this case go to Pluchinsky. He's primary investigator and you are unofficially assigned to the Bomb Squad... you and your new friends are not to be playing detective any more. Got it?
reporter		To recap, a gunman carrying what police described as a phony bomb was shot and killed less than an hour ago.
beard		She talked.
meg		More coffee, T.J.?
meg		Mr. Reilly?
reilly		Mike.   No thanks, I'm fine.
pooch		Time for bed, kiddos.   Say goodnight.
tommy		Can Uncle Teej tuck us in?
janie		 Goodnight Uncle Charlie, goodnight Uncle Mike.
reilly		`Night...
glass		How long were you hooked?
reilly		What?
glass		You don't have to talk about it.
reilly		Pittsburgh, two years ago. Partner died, no back-up, I was too gung-ho. As usual.
glass		Take a tip from the Bomb Boys, always assess, if only for a second.
reilly		I know. I was working a drug ring, deep cover. Played the part too well. When they pulled me out, I wasn't a cop anymore. My fiance had dumped me. Next thing I knew, I was out here on the street, doped up, auditioning for the morgue when this tough old vice cop found me, cleaned me up, gave me a second chance. He promised Captain Winters he'd look out for me.
glass		Your partner?
reilly		 I guess I didn't realize how much I needed him. He kept me straight. It's been tough every second since.
glass		Let me see.
reilly		I terrible with mechanical things.
glass		No you're not, you just don't understand them. Here, do what I tell you.
reilly		It's working.
glass		Congratulations, you just built your first ticker.
reilly		Okay, hit it.
glass		Alright!
glass		Any word?
pooch		Nothing.    Maybe they gave up, split town.
reilly		Don't bet on it.
reilly		How's the print coming?
bev		One partial from the handle matches the suspect from last night. Name's Carl Taylor. Long record of arson, assault, the works. The other print - we got nothing from our data base or the FBI or CIA... still waiting for Interpol.
reilly		Damn.
bev		Coffee, Mike?
reilly		No thanks, Bev.
bev		Yes, sir.   He's here.   I'll tell him.
winters		Yes ... no, of course not but ... yes, sir, I understand.
reilly		Yes, sir.
winters		She's refused to say a word to anyone. What made you think you could get her to talk?
reilly		I didn't.     But I had to try.
winter		Reilly, I think I've shown that I'm a patient man. Rice was your biggest fan and I've tried to honor him by giving you some slack. But you are very close to running out of slack.
reilly		Yes, sir.
winters		I read your report. Impressive. I'd say it's got detective written all over it. But... you cross the line one more time... you're gone. Are we clear?
reilly		Yes, sir.
harry		I'll be outside.
the girl		Hello.
reilly		Hello.
reilly		But they weren't all insured.
mary		Cover.  It was suppose to be abandoned buildings, y'know. No one was suppose to get hurt. The night you busted us...We were checking to make sure there weren't any vagrants around. Scare them away.
reilly		Who is he?
mary		Alex Swan. My brother. The other two are called Taylor and Leveau.
reilly		Taylor's dead.
mary		There is a motel downtown, near the Machine
reilly		Thank you.
mary		He's my brother...
reilly		Then why tell me?
mary		People are dying.
glass		Ex-girlfriend?
reilly		Be right back.
bag lady		No.
reilly		No, of course not... well, thanks anyway. Here you go, Your Highness.
bag lady		On second thought, maybe I did.
bag lady		Lemme see... yeah, here it is, 11:18 this morning. Very disrespectful. He used to drive a van, but he got a new car. You want the license number?
reilly		You're beautiful!
reilly		We're back in business!
harry		Ran the license plate - car was rented early this morning from a Hertz office downtown.
pluchinsky		Alex Swan - demolitions expert, trained at Redstone, dropped out, freelanced in the middle East for awhile, then disappeared, no criminal record. The other one, Leveau, is French Canadian, he's a mercenary, record in half a dozen countries.
winters		Get out an APB, now!
pluchinsky		Yes, sir.
beard		We've got company.
reilly		Glass, there they are. Pooch right in front of you, you got `em, you got `em.
pooch		Oh... damn.
winters		Glass, sorry about Pooch, he was a good man. We don't have time to give you a break right now, we're going ahead and-
reilly		My God, you're going to use her, aren't you?
winters		 Glass, you're to stand by with your team.
reilly		I promised her she'd be safe.
winters		It's our only option.
reilly		It won't work, he'll know it's a trap...
winters		Reilly, you're done for now. What the hell were you thinking directing the Bomb Squad Team into hot pursuit. They had no business-
reilly		I know.
winters		You've been at the center of two suspect fatalities and two Police Officer fatalities. I'll need your badge and your weapon.
reilly		Glass--!
harry		It's him!
winters		Winters here.
swan's voice		You motherfuckers, you don't learn, do you?!
winters		We're prepared to talk-
swan's voice		Shut up!    Shut up!
swan's voice		You have exactly thirty minutes to release the girl where you found her.
tracer		Twelve ...
swan's voice		Thirty minutes.
tracer		Nine ...
winters		How do we know you'll keep your word?
winters		 Okay, let's move!
pluchinsky		Get out and go to the machine shop -
wino		She's out of the bag.
truck driver		 Six.   She's crossing to Main.
winters		Seal the building!  Let's move.
truck driver		 We have contact. Black Camaro-
swan		You okay?
mary		Alex-
swan		I know.   I warned them.
mary		What is that?
swan		Security.
dealer		C'mon, cowboy, you're next.
dealer		Okay, what's it gonna be? I got China White, Snow Flake, Ivory Pearl...
dealer		 Hey, asshole ...
dealer		Hey, I'm talking to you--
swan		You hungry?     We could get something to eat.
swan		What's the matter?
mary		Nothing... just tired.
mary		Why are we stopping here?
swan		We're moving' on. I have to pick up the supplies. Just two little boxes.
mary		No...   No more killing.
swan		Stay here.
mary		Alex, please.
swan		Stay in the truck.
mary		Get me the police!
mary		Yes! Please, hurry!
sergeant's voice		Police, Sergeant Doyle speaking.
mary		Please, I need help, my name is--
swan		Who are you calling, sis?
mary		What?    Nobody, I-
mary		Alex, please-
swan		Shut up!  Who is this?
mary		Help!
boy		Hey--?
reilly		C'mon, move it.
dispatcher voice		All units, 211 reported at 8th and Sycamore. Suspect is a Caucasian male, armed with an automatic weapon, last seen heading east with female hostage in a U-Haul truck ...
reilly		Dispatch, this is Reilly.
dispatcher voice		Go ahead.
reilly		Patch me through to the Bomb Squad.
dispatcher voice		Aren't you on suspension?
reilly		Just do it.
dispatcher voice		Hang on.
reilly		T.J., it's Reilly, put Glass on!
glass		What's up?
reilly		Where you guys at?
glass		Driving in circles, waiting for-
reilly		Catch that alert? That's him in the U-Haul.
glass		How do you know?
reilly		Cuz he got the girl, now he's leaving town.
glass		Should we head for the Interstate?
reilly		Would you?
glass		No, I'd slip out past the hotel district, behind Greyhound...
reilly		Me, too.
reilly		 Glass, Eighth Street, alley behind Grand Hotel. Cut him off.
winters		 Reilly, what the hell are you-?
winters		Pull back.   You're only an observer.
reilly		 We'll keep him pinned in, you guys hurry up!
glass		Reilly!    He's loaded!
reilly		 Glass, you guys take cover, goddammit!
swan		I want out, right now.      Or the whole city block is gone.
glass		Reilly, he's got enough to do it.
swan		Drop it.
mary		 Take him!
glass		Hold on to that thing tight.
reilly		Fuck factor?
glass		Off the scale.
reilly		What do we do?
glass		Can you hold it?
reilly		Talk to me.     Let's assess.
glass		Right.
reilly		C'mon, talk to me! We can do it!
glass		He has a timer going as back-up, in case we got a hold of the remote.  Okay... first, run your fingers along the edges, feel for a sensor.
glass		Good, now the other side.
reilly		Nothing.
glass		Okay, let's go in.
reilly		Keep talking.
glass		Close your eyes, feel your fingertips.   Tell me everything you feel.
reilly		Wires... metal, cold... something soft...
glass		Don't touch that.
reilly		More metal... sharp edge...
glass		Stay to your left.
reilly		Something round, two wires ...
glass		That's the blasting cap - good! Okay, now grab it by the base and pull it straight up. No, Wait...
reilly		What's wrong?
glass		Too easy. There's gotta be something else in there, another cap maybe.
reilly		Make up your mind, trigger.
glass		Ease your thumb over to the right - feel anything?
reilly		Yeah, another round thing.
glass		Okay, one of the caps turns it on, the other shuts it down.
reilly		Which one's which?
glass		I don't know.
reilly		What... ?
glass		When in doubt, pull the yellow wire.
reilly		How the hell do you feel yellow?
glass		No excuses, just do it!
reilly		Thanks.
glass		All clear, but we need an ambulance!
winters		Mayor loves a hero.
reilly		Thank you, Captain.
bev		Hey, you look great.
glass		You're late.
reilly		Nice to be here.
****Dialogues from script :Timber_Falls.txt****

young man		Please-please stop. D-don't.
young man		SARAH!    RUN!
mike		Come on, hit me.
sheryl		 Chill...I gotta find -- alright.
mike		You got one?
mike		"Warning Shots", Thievery Corporation.
mike		Come on.   Next one.
mike		"Bullets" by the Editors.
sheryl		You loaded these songs. You don't need to be so impressed with yourself.
mike		I know I don't have to be.
sheryl		I haven't even heard of half these bands.
mike		It's called good music. You should try to familiarize yourself with it, instead of listening to the crap you do.
sheryl		I listen to crap?
mike		Hurts me to be the one to tell you.
sheryl		I'm sure it does.
mike		You gotta be more like me, baby. Think new, fresh, cutting edge. I'm looking for the next Beatles, U2 or Radiohead.
sheryl		So, where does this band fall into that group?
sheryl		Fresh, new or cutting edge?
mike		How'd that get on there?
sheryl		You loaded the songs.   You tell me?
mike		Must be a mistake.
sheryl		Says here you've listened to it 86 times.
sheryl		Is this true? Have you always wanted to be a cowboy?
sheryl		You also got "Men Without Hats" greatest hits? I didn't know they qualified for a greatest hits album. Can you break me off a little "Safety Dance"?
mike		Okay, give me that.
mike		Good morning.
sam		Now what can I do you two for?
mike		Well...ah...
sam		First time here and you're not quite sure where to begin.
sam		Something like that.
sheryl		Precisely like that.
sam		Get you started with one of these.
sam		How long you folks hiking for?
mike		Two days.    Heading out early Sunday.
sam		Well, if you move at a decent clip, you could hit the summit by midday tomorrow. Should still give you time to take it all in and make it down.
sheryl		Any particular path?
sam		You folks experienced hikers?
mike		We've done some ah--
sheryl		 No. Nothing like this.
sam		For first-timers, I recommend either Willow Creek Bridge or Donner Trail.
sheryl		Donner Trail? As in "The Donner Party?"
sam		I'm not sure of the name's origin. They're the two paths we regularly patrol. Something happens and you're on one of the other trails, it might be awhile before we find you.
mike		Where do we camp?
sam		Unless it says not to, you can set up where you like. Just make sure when you turn in that you extinguish your fire. Oh, and this here's bear country. They're not animals to fool with. You see one, you head the other way, especially if he's feeding. If the bear thinks you're getting in the way of his food, that's all she wrote.
sheryl		 Great.
sam		You got yourself a first aid kit?
mike		Nurse Betty here's my first aid kit.
sheryl		Don't mind him. I'm a nurse.
sam		Good for you. The question was, do you have a first aid kit?
sheryl		Yes, we have a first aid kit.
sam		Great, see how easy that was.  It's off-season, park's pretty quiet. Even more than usual. You may run into a few locals, but--
sheryl		People live up here?
sam		We have a few generations of families that have called these mountains home. Most of `em are friendly. Respect their land and they'll respect you.
mike		Sorry.
sam		 Base is just outside, to the left. At about two miles up there'll be a junction where you can pick your path.
mike		Thanks.
mike		You getting anything?
mike		I'll lock them in the car.
sheryl		I'll take mine.
mike		Why?
sheryl		Just to annoy you.
mike		Seriously...
sheryl		In an emergency, I'd rather have a phone that may not work up there, than not have a phone that may work up there.
mike		Okay, we all set?
sheryl		 Yup.
mike		Let's do this.
sheryl		Hey, Einstein. What do you think, leave the tent or maybe take it with us?
mike		I was just seeing if you were paying attention.
sheryl		It could be fun.
mike		Not a chance. High School reunions serve only two purposes... to try to 
sheryl		So what were you?
mike		Me?   I was a stoner.
sheryl		So what does that mean?
mike		How the hell am I supposed to remember? I was high all the time.
mike		Where'd you get that bandana?
sheryl		It's cute, right? I stopped by that Army-Navy store on Grover yesterday. Keeps the sweat out of your eyes.
mike		And when you were buying it, you didn't think that maybe...
sheryl		Oh...well...it was the last one...
mike		The last one?
sheryl		Yeah...
mike		The entire Army-Navy store... sold out?
sheryl		Completely. There was some sort of run on bandanas at the last minute.
sheryl		Here... You big baby.
mike		Fucking nasty.
sheryl		What is it?
mike		Looks like it's a, or was, a fox. Come on.
sheryl		What do you think?    "Cannibal" Trail or the other one?
mike		Guidebook says a couple of these other trails lead to some pretty sweet views.
sheryl		We're not Lewis and/or Clark. We're gonna stick to one of the ones the Ranger said.
mike		We're just going over our options here.
ida		Well, take it from me, any way you choose, you can't go wrong.
sheryl		The Ranger at base suggested Donner Trail or...
ida		...Willow Creek Bridge. I think Sam only knows those two trails. Well. Between those, I'd pick Donner Trail. Willow Creek will shoot you to the top, but there's not as much to see. Donner weaves through Peddler's Point, it's a better hike and prettier all around view.
sheryl		 What do you think?
ida		That's a pretty ring.
sheryl		Thank you.
ida		Not your traditional wedding ring, but it's all the same in the Lord's eyes. How long have you two been wed?
sheryl		Oh... we're not married.    Not yet anyway.
sheryl		It's a ring my father gave me for graduation.
ida		 I'm just an old fashioned silly-bird. I need to mind my own business.
sheryl		No, it's fine.
mike		 Which one of those trails got the best clearings?
ida		Clearings? Neither will give you much in the way of clearings. But, there's another path, this one here.  Timber Falls. Its got some beautiful vistas and one of the prettiest falls you'll ever see.
mike		Sounds perfect.  Yeah?
ida		Well, I'll leave you to it. Last thing you need is me fussing'round you, taking you from your private time.
ida		I'm just gonna say it and go, but if you two were to marry... I bet the Lord would bless you with a happy, healthy and handsome child. Good luck and God bless you both.
sheryl		I suddenly feel the need for confession.
mike		 Not yet? Love taking your shots, don't ya?
sheryl		When I see an opening.
mike		 That path she was talking about winds through these falls. What do you think?
sheryl		I think... if you get eaten by a bear and there isn't a Ranger around, I'm not carrying what's left of you down this mountain.
mike		And they say romance is dead.  Timber Falls it is.
mike		Who's Lewis and/or Clark?
sheryl		You really were stoned through high school.
mike		You're going to lose that out here.
sheryl		It's fine. I never take it off. Not since you gave it to me. Betcha don't remember...
mike		I remember every moment with you.
sheryl		I've got you so whipped.
mike		OUCH!   FUCK!
sheryl		What?
mike		My hand... Something stuck it.
sheryl		It's okay. It's not too deep.      Let me get the first aid kit.
mike		Fuck.   That stung.
sheryl		Gotta clean the wound, baby.
mike		You know me and blood... we don't do so well.
sheryl		I know.  All done.
mike		Not bad, Nightingale.     Not bad at all.
sheryl		Did you hear something?
mike		It's probably the deer.
sheryl		The deer went in the other direction.
mike		Maybe it's someone, or something, stalking us.
sheryl		Quit it.
mike		Something inhuman watching our every move.
sheryl		I said, knock it off.
mike		Something coming for you, Sheryl.
sheryl		Just when I think there's hope for you.
mike		What?
sheryl		You're an asshole.
mike		This is a joke. You're not really mad, are you? Sheryl...?
mike		I'm sorry!  Unbelievable.
mike		Sheryl!
mike		Sheryl, wait up!
mike		 Sheryl?! This isn't funny.
mike		Sheryl?!
mike		Sheryl!
mike		You bitch.
sheryl		Doesn't feel good to be teased, does it?
mike		Truce?
sheryl		Truce.
mike		Don't disappear on me again.
darryl		Looks like we got ourselves a little party.
mike		We were just moving our way up the mountain.
lonnie		You were moving your way'round more than just that.
darryl		 Like a peach.
brody		You folks best be careful about what you do up here... Never know who's watching.
mike		Appreciate the advice...I think we learned our lesson.
lonnie		You city folk, ain't ya? Up from Charleston roughing it, seeing how the "other" half lives?
mike		No, we're from Virginia, just up for a weekend trip. And, uh... you folks live up here?
brody		It's easy to spot the city folk. It's like they're trying to be friendly, when really they don't want to be.
mike		I think you just startled us is all.
mike		We'll just be on our way.  May I have those?
darryl		Finders keepers.
brody		Darryl.
brody		Where you runnin' off to?
lonnie		Yeah, we just getting acquainted and shit.
mike		We just want to get a little further along before the sun sets.
darryl		Plenty of time'fore that.
mike		Look. We don't want any trouble.   We just want to be on our way...
brody		And why do you suppose we mean to make trouble?
brody		You folks enjoy the spirits?
mike		Excuse me?     The what?
darryl		Spirits.
lonnie		Booze!
mike		Sure.    Yeah.
brody		Why don't you try a taste of this?
darryl		Betcha never tasted nuthin'like that?
brody		Fifty bucks.
brody		I'll sell you the jar for fifty bucks.
darryl		 Or maybe we could do us a little trade.
mike		Let me get my wallet.
sheryl		Fifty bucks sounds like a bargain.  Pay the man.
brody		Pleasure doing business with ya.     Take care now.
lonnie		Should you tire of your present company... just holla and I'll come running with bells on darling.
mike		Are you okay?
sheryl		You brought a gun?
sheryl		Why did you bring a gun?
mike		Same reason you brought your cellphone. Better to have it and not need it. To protect us.
sheryl		Lotta good it just did.
mike		 Sheryl? I'm sorry.
sheryl		We should have stuck to one of the patrolled paths.
mike		 Fuck.
mike		You alright?
sheryl		 Yeah.
mike		I'm sorry.
sheryl		Do you know how many times I've had someone die on me? How many children? I stopped keeping count.
mike		I thought... I wasn't thinking.       What do you want me to do?
sheryl		Get rid of the gun.
mike		What... now? Out here?
mike		I can't just leave it here in the woods, some kid could find it.
sheryl		Then get rid of the bullets now and when we get home, you get rid of the gun.
sheryl		Please.
sheryl		Was that all of them?
mike		Yes.
sheryl		Thank you.
clyde		Oh. Didn't mean to startle you folks. Just clearing some of the brush off 
mike		It's fine. We were led to believe this trail wasn't regularly patrolled.
clyde		It's not, but... It's one of my favorite spots, so I often find an excuse to swing by.
sheryl		It's gorgeous.
clyde		Yup. There are a couple more falls in the park, but none quite so... inviting as this one. Now don't take my word for it, you can see for yourself... How long's your stay?
sheryl		Just til Sunday.
clyde		Yeah, no. The other falls are clear on the other side. It would take you a couple nights just to get there.
sheryl		Maybe next time.
mike		This is a quickie trip. Just getting out of the city for a couple days.
clyde		The city, huh. Which? If it's Charleston, I wouldn't blame ya. Whole place smells like feet. I gotta haul myself all the way down to the hospital there for my yearly because the darn HMO's rules and regulations won't let me visit the local Doc. Not my cup of tea at all, but if you like it there, then...
sheryl		No, we're not from Charleston.
mike		But apparently we look like we are.
sheryl		We live in Alexandria.   It's just outside of D.C.
clyde		Oh. I've been there, few years back. Now that city I like. Lotta beautiful churches if I recall correctly. Which congregation do y'all belong to?
mike		Um... Not sure. Sheryl keeps track of all that for us. Sheryl?
sheryl		Uh... We're between congregations at the moment.
clyde		Well... I should get back to work. Sun'll be down soon and that path ain't gettin'clear on its own.
sheryl		Excuse me... Sir?
clyde		The name's Clyde.
sheryl		Clyde, would you recommend a nice spot nearby to make camp for the night?
clyde		Be happy too... Let's see... Oh, I got it. "Five Corners" will be perfect. It's just a bit up the ways here, near the Lake. It's five large rocks which sit in a clearing with a view of the whole park. The rocks retain the heat from the day, so if you set up camp between them you won't be so cold.
sheryl		Sounds perfect.
mike		Thanks.
clyde		Just doing my job. You have fun and be careful. Good evening.
sheryl		This is incredible.
sheryl		Ranger said there's a lake near by.
mike		What?
sheryl		The lake.    I'd kill to rinse off.
mike		Whoa. Wait a sec. It'll be dark soon.
sheryl		Where's your sense of adventure?
mike		Sher. Seriously.       Let's wait `til morning.
sheryl		Fine.
sheryl		Do you know what you are doing?
mike		I think its pretty obvious that I don't.
mike		That was... the worst dinner ever.
sheryl		 You cooked.
mike		Yeah, I'm aware.  You know what would make this evening perfect? Moonshine. I got a whole jar of it. There's a sentence I never thought I'd say. "I have a jar of moonshine." Matter of fact, I've got enough to share with our entire congregation...
sheryl		... in Charleston.
mike		Our home city, of course. But I should start with you... Would you like some moonshine?
mike		Then what would you like?
sheryl		I'd like to fuck you.
mike		Not very Christian of you.
sheryl		I'm more Old Testament.
mike		What's that mean?
sheryl		Not sure. But I think it's the nastier of the two books.
mike		I was good. I mean, even better than usual.
sheryl		If you don't say so...
mike		... if I don't say so myself, yeah. Top notch performance. What, you disagree?
sheryl		Nah, it was good.   Do you think I had anything to do...
mike		No.   All me.
sheryl		Fine.  I liked what the old woman said about us earlier.
mike		What did she say?
sheryl		That she thought we were married.
mike		 You are relentless.
sheryl		I wouldn't be a proper girlfriend if I didn't nag every now and then.
mike		I get it, but it makes me feel like the bad guy every time. Which makes me feel like shit.
sheryl		I'm sorry. I didn't mean that.       Where are you going?
mike		Do out there, what you did in here.
sheryl		What's that?
mike		Put out the fire.
mike		 Sheryl!
mike		Sheryl!
mike		Fuck!  Sheryl!
mike		Sheryl!
lonnie		What is it? Hear something?
darryl		Nah.    It's nothing.
mike		Where is she!?
darryl		Whoa... take it easy.
mike		Where is she?
darryl		Who?    What the fuck you talking about?
mike		What did you do to her?
darryl		I didn't fuckin' do nothing.
mike		WHERE IS SHE?!
darryl		I don't know!
mike		You have Sheryl's towel...What the fuck did you do to her?!
darryl		Foun' towel.
mike		What?
darryl		I foun' the towel.
mike		You found it? That's you're fucking story, you inbred fuck?!  Stop fucking lying or I will kill you!
darryl		Don' kill me...Please...I foun' it... Up...Up the paf back `dere...just a bit ago... fuckin'swear!
darryl		Didn't think you had dat in you, city boy.  Shit... I just got dis shirt.
darryl		Damn shame you lost dat fine piece o'ass. Something dat sweet don't come'round every day. Even for pretty folk like you.
mike		Shut the fuck up.
darryl		You best hope you find her'fore I do. `cause I will enjoy tearing her ass apart.  Any luck, Brody's already beat me to it.
mike		Sonofabitch!
mike		SHERYL!
mike		HELP!?!?!
ida		Michael, can you hear me?    Michael...
mike		Ow!
ida		Look who's up.
mike		Where am I?
ida		You're in my home, Michael. You gave me quite a scare. I thought I lost you.
ida		Lucky the snap didn't break the bone, just bruised it. I know that's of little comfort now, but trust me, it's a good thing. That dirty trap however's prime for spreading infection, need to finish cleaning out that wound and then I'll get some "evening primrose" in you. Same stuff the Indian Tribes used it back in the day to heal, well... just about everything. So's do I.
ida		Try and relax.
mike		Thank you.     For saving my life.
ida		You don't have to thank me. Up here, we take care of one another. That's the only way any of us survive.
mike		Um...  I'm sorry, but I don't know your name.
ida		Oh for the sake of sunshine... how rude a host am I? Name's Ida Foster.
mike		Ida, I need some help.
ida		I'm moving as fast as I can, sweetie.
mike		No, not me. It's Sheryl. My girlfriend. You met her with me yesterday. Something's happened to her. She was gone this morning when I woke up. I looked everywhere and I couldn't find her. We need to call someone. A Ranger. Somebody. We need to find her right away. Do you have a phone?
ida		I'm sorry, but I don't. Never really had use for one.  I do have a radio. We can call down to base if you'd like.
ida		After we take care of you.
mike		I'm fine, Ida, please... if you could call now.
ida		You want to lose this leg? Cause that's what you're risking. Soon as we're done, I'll call. Okay?
ida		Bite down on this... I ain't gonna lie... Lotta pain about to hit you sweetheart.
ida		It's okay.     It's almost over.
ida		We'll get some of that primrose in you and you'll be good as new.
mike		Ida? The radio. Please... Can you call down please?
ida		I'll take care of it right now.
mike		 He's looking for me.
ida		 Why's that?
mike		 I think he had something to do with Sheryl going missing.
ida		 I'll take care of it.
ida		I'm coming!
brody		What took you so long?
ida		What do you want, Brody?
brody		I'm looking for a man hiker.
ida		This "man hiker" alone or wit someone?
brody		He had a lady friend, but...    I'm just looking for him now.
ida		Well, I ain't seen no one in days.
ida		What'd he do you for anyway?
brody		He busted Darryl's face in with a shotgun. Left him a mess of blood and teeth. Nearly killed him.  You spot anyone you don't know, you be sure to find me.
ida		Fine.
ida		He's gone. Brody and those boys are a pain in the backside. I'm sure that cousin of his had it coming.
mike		What did the Ranger say? Does he need to speak to me? When is he coming?
ida		Sorry, I wasn't able to reach anyone.
mike		God damnit!
ida		Please don't take the Lord's name in vain in this house.
mike		I'm sorry.
ida		Drink this.
mike		Something's not right.
ida		I'm sure they're just on rounds and will be back any minute. We'll try them again and we'll find Sheryl. You'll see. She probably just took a wrong turn up here, ended up in the middle of "don't know where." Happens lots of times.  Please drink up, Michael, it will make you feel better.
ida		What's wrong?
mike		How did you know my name?
ida		 Excuse me?
mike		Michael. You keep calling me Michael. You did it just now. You did before, just after I woke up. You called me Michael. Nobody calls me Michael.
ida		I'm sure you're mistaken.    You musta told me before.
mike		No, I would have told you "Mike." Only my grandmother, who's dead, ever called me Michael.
ida		Well, how else could I have known your name?
mike		 On my driver's license and credit cards, it says Michael. If you stole my wallet from the campsite... that's how you'd have known.
ida		You're accusing me of stealing your wallet? I saved your life. Twice. Why would I steal your wallet?  Now, just drink your primrose...
mike		Fuck the primrose!
ida		Where do you think you're going?
mike		I want to call the Ranger myself.
ida		NO!
mike		I'm getting in that room, Ida.
ida		I can't let you in there.
mike		Where is Sheryl, Ida?    She's in that room, isn't she?
ida		You sinners are all alike. I heard you last night. Spitting in the face 
ida		You and your bitch whore girlfriend will atone for your sins.
mike		Sheryl!?
mike		Oh my God.
mike		I need something to cut you down, baby.
mike		Are you okay?
sheryl		Get me out of here.    Hurry.
sheryl		He'll be back soon.
mike		Who's he?
sheryl		Come on, come on, come on...
mike		Fuck!
sheryl		 What are you doing?
sheryl		 Mike? Mike?
mike		Sheryl, run!
mike		 Get the fuck out of here!    Now!
sheryl		Mike?  Mike?
sheryl		Thank you God...  HELP!
clyde		Oh my stars, what happened to you?
sheryl		 You have to help me. I was kidnapped. My boyfriend came... And this man's chasing me. He's chasing me right now.
clyde		Calm down. I can't make heads or tails of what you're saying.
sheryl		He's coming. He's right behind me.
clyde		Look, miss, there's no one there.
sheryl		Oh my God, Mike.
clyde		It's going to be fine, Miss. I promise you. Everything's going to be fine.
clyde		Deacon, what's going on?    How the heck did she escape?
clyde		Want something done, gotta do it yourself.
ida		Perfect. Just perfect. You are lovely as a summer's day.  It's almost time.
clyde		That's enough. Get him ready.
clyde		And Jesus answered and said unto them, "Each man should have his own wife, and each woman her own husband. The husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife, and likewise the wife to her husband."
ida		Amen.
clyde		And so, in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, I ask you Michael... and you Sheryl, do you accept the sacred covenant of marriage?
clyde		I'll ask again... Do you accept this covenant of marriage?
clyde		Then by the power vested in me, I pronounce you man and wife.
mike		Why are you doing this? We did nothing to you people. Let us go!
clyde		You may kiss the bride.
mike		You fucking people are fucking sick!
clyde		 ... he'll cut off your lips.
mike		I love you.
mike		What are you doing?
mike		LET HER GO! SHERYL!  Let her go!...Please, let her go!
mike		SHERYL! 
ida		I know you will.
clyde		Gonna untie your mouth, now.    Have a little "man to man" talk.
mike		Please... It's not too late.    Let us go.    We won't tell anyone.
clyde		 How well do you know your bible, Michael?
mike		Jesus Fucking Christ...
clyde		I told you before to watch that mouth, mister.
mike		Fuck you.
clyde		You through?
clyde		I'll ask again... how well do you know the bible?
mike		Not very.
clyde		That's okay. It's fine. That's why I am here... teach you the way things are and the way they should be.
ida		I'll be right back.
sheryl		I want you, Deacon.  I want you to fuck me.   Hard.
clyde		Lord knows the will of a man gets tested. Cruelly most times. But the righteous persevere. They do what needs to be done, even though they don't want to. It's what makes a man, a man. Let me tell you the story of Judas, he was one of Jesus's apostles. Judas led Roman Soldiers to the capture and eventual death of our Lord Jesus Christ. And now, is supposedly seated next to Satan, his soul burning in hell forever for this sin. But I don't believe that's the case. I have my own theory. The death of Jesus was predicted thousands of years before Judas ever came along. And for the prophecy to be fulfilled, Jesus had to die. If he didn't, the gates of heaven couldn't be opened for mankind. I don't think, for an instant, Judas wanted to be the one, but... someone had to. Judas helped Jesus, so Jesus could die for our sins. Save us all. And I believe at this moment... Judas is in heaven, despite his sin, because it led to the greater good.  Relations prior to marriage is a sin. You and Sheryl are sinners in the Lord's eyes. And because of those sins, your souls are damned. But Ida and Me, we're gonna give you a chance to save your souls and do the right thing, but... as previously stated, you will need to persevere and show the strength and will of your character. But you'll do it. Because that's what needs to be done.
ida		You get away from her.    Git!   Now!
ida		I'm sorry about that, Sugar.     My brother, he's not well.
ida		It's not all his fault. Our father wasn't very Christian and then there was the accident. Along with the scarring, lost use of his vocals. Can't speak a lick. Now, I've spoken to him. What happened with the others won't happen to you. He's promised me that.
ida		I'm gonna take that out of your mouth now. I brought you some tea, got some primrose in it. Help you relax, get some rest. Okay?
sheryl		Please don't do this. Please let me go. Please..I just want to go home.
ida		 Drink the tea.
ida		That's better. Good girl.  I almost forgot to ask... How does it feel being married?
sheryl		Why are you doing this?
ida		I thought you'd be happy about that. All I ever wanted out of life was two things... to be married and to have a baby. The Lord blessed me with Clyde and I thank Him every day for that.
ida		But having a baby's been... complicated.
clyde		She can conceive fine... just... can't seem to make it all the way through. Timothy was the toughest... Made it to month eight.
clyde		City Doctor had some fancy mumbo-jumbo words for the condition.  Breaks my heart every time. That woman was born to be a mother. It's her calling in life. Just like you and Sheryl have a calling.
mike		What exactly do you want from us?
ida		You're young, strong... It's gonna be easy for you. Not like me.
sheryl		 Wh-what...?
ida		You're gonna have a baby, Sheryl.  My baby.
mike		Oh my God...
mike		What have you done to her?
ida		She'll be out for hours, but she's fine.
clyde		Ida'll come back in a little bit, check to see that the deed has been done. If it hasn't...the next time you see your little lady...a piece of her will be missing. 
ida		Now, we know conception's not automatic. So don't feel like all the pressure's on right now. We're prepared to do this however long it takes. You give us the effort each time, eventually the magic will happen.
mike		You're out of your fucking minds.
clyde		What did I tell you about the language?
clyde		Deacon will be right outside that door. The only door. This room has no windows and is buried twenty feet below ground. Cutting to the chase... there's no way out and you can scream yourself hoarse, no one will hear you.
ida		We'll let you have your privacy now.  Oh, almost forgot.
ida		It's gotta work this time.
clyde		It will.
ida		Promise me.  Promise me, Clyde.
clyde		I promise.
clyde		Was I at all unclear yesterday?
mike		No, but...
clyde		Did you understand what was expected of you?
mike		Yes, but... How do you expect...
clyde		Clearly you did not understand. You did not even attempt relations last evening.
mike		What you're asking to do is sick. You're sick.
clyde		You didn't have a problem when penetration was a sin, but when it's your wife, it's sick?!? Unbelievable.
clyde		You knew the rules, Michael. I warned you. Now, Deacon, here, will remind you.
clyde		I'm going to be late for work.
ida		Be home at the regular time?
clyde		Might be a bit late. I have an errand that needs attending to.
mike		You don't have to do this.    Come on.
sheryl		What are they doing to him?
ida		You should concern yourself with what's about to happen to you.
sheryl		What are you doing, Ida?
ida		You think you're so much smarter than me, don't you?
sheryl		No.
ida		Yes you do. Admit it'cause I can see it in your eyes, darling. With your fancy schools and job and such.  You think you are better than me.
sheryl		No, I don't.
ida		 Of all the... I shouted, "No! We are created in the Lord's image... not some nonsensical theory by Darwind."
ida		I suppose Mr. Billings and Mr. Darwind can stand up and cheer, because you, little lady... you're about to evolve.
mike		No more.   Please.   No more.
mike		What are you going to do with that?
sheryl		Please Ida, don't.    Don't do this.
ida		You think I want to hurt a pretty thing like you? Pains me, but... until you and your husband obey, my hands, much like yours, are tied.
sheryl		I know about your condition, Ida. It's not your fault. There are a lot of women that can't carry a baby full term. I know how much you're hurting.
ida		You don't know anything about me or what I've gone through.
sheryl		I'm here for you now.      I'll help you. Please.
ida		You can help...       by following the rules.
brody		Clyde!
clyde		G'morning, Brody.
brody		I stopped by your place the other day.
clyde		Ida mentioned.
brody		So have you seen or heard anything about that man hiker?
clyde		 In fact I have. I saw him and his lady leave.
brody		When was this?
clyde		Yesterday.     Just before dusk.
brody		Bullshit.
clyde		Believe what you want.
brody		I saw their car last night in the parking lot at base. So they didn't leave, "Just before dusk."
clyde		Well, I was down at base this morning... car's gone now.
brody		Something don't feel right here, Clyde. Between you and Ida...
clyde		I don't have time for this...
clyde		Take your hand off me, Brody.
brody		What do you know about that hiker you ain't telling me?
clyde		I told you, Brody...    I saw them leave. Let it go.
mike		How do you expect me to do this?    Like this?
clyde		Do we need to provide you with some more motivation?
ida		You wouldn't want to put that lovely bride of yours through a day like she had today again, now would you?
mike		You'll never get away with this. We have friends and family. They know where we went. They'll come looking for us. They'll find us!
clyde		That may very well be... but they won't find your car.
mike		Oh baby, what did they do to you?   I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
sheryl		 Are they gone?
mike		 Yeah. You're awake?
sheryl		I didn't swallow that shit she gave me.
sheryl		Oh my God.     Mike...
mike		It's okay.     I'm okay.
sheryl		You're not okay. We're not okay. What are we gonna do?
mike		I don't know.
sheryl		Maybe... we should just give them what they want?
mike		What?
sheryl		If it stops them from hurting you and me... maybe we should...
mike		Absolutely not. No fucking way. Forget the fact, that the moment you get pregnant, they'll kill me. Then the moment you give birth, you're dead. Beyond both of those reasons... ain't no fucking way I am going to give them our child.
mike		For all my coward marriage moments... I've thought about our child. Is that stupid? I picture what he'll be like...
sheryl		He?
mike		Wishful thinking. I picture your heart... your eyes... And I picture us, raising him. Growing old with him.  I'll get us out of this, Sheryl. I promise you.
clyde		It's time.
evelyn		Good morning, Sam.
sam		Ain't no better than any of the other days, Evelyn, so bring the "glee" down some, would ya?
evelyn		Hey, Sam, do you remember a Virginia couple pass through here sometime Friday?
sam		Friday? Well...There was one couple, but they didn't say where they were from.
evelyn		Gal's mother's called three times this morning. Said she hasn't heard from her daughter since before she left and she didn't show up for work yesterday or today.
sam		She sure this was the park they were coming to?
evelyn		Yup. Woman's already offering up a reward.
sam		Damn it. Have her fax some photos up here. Notify patrol.
evelyn		Been a while since we had a couple go missing. Twelve months ago the last?
sam		 Nine.
mike		You don't have to check...   Nothing happened.
clyde		We do appreciate your honesty, Michael. And believe me, we understand your extreme situation, but... Punishment's going to have to be handed down.
clyde		Go for, Clyde.
clyde		 Restrain him.
mike		I told you. I told they'd be coming.
clyde		Copy that.
clyde		 Get him in the other room.      Now.
brody		Shit.   Get rid of the dope.
evelyn		Morning, gentlemen.  Pardon me... Afternoon.
lonnie		Evelyn, damn, hurts looking at you. When you gonna give it up to me?
evelyn		Now with a line like that, it's a shocker I haven't already.
lonnie		You stone cold tease.
evelyn		Was wondering if either of you had seen any hikers pass by in the last day or so?
brody		What's this about?
brody		These two are missing?
evelyn		It would seem so.    Why, have you seen them?
brody		You talk to Clyde about this?
evelyn		All the Rangers are on the lookout. Family's even offering up a reward.
brody		 How much?
evelyn		Pardon?
brody		How much they offering?
evelyn		Don't exactly know.     I'm guessing it's a fair amount.
brody		Well, me and Lonnie will keep a lookout for you too. Anything we can do to help.
lonnie		You change you mind, I'll ride you raw.
lonnie		It'd be the best fifteen seconds of your life, darling!
clyde		Noose is starting to tighten, Ida.
ida		No. You promised. You promised, this time, would be the time. I want that baby. You promised.
clyde		We're gonna have to double our efforts, here.
ida		Leave that to me.
clyde		I think we have to have another... man to man discussion, here, Michael.
clyde		Seems as though, time is now factoring into our situation.
clyde		We're not violent people, Michael.    It pains us to pain you.
mike		I don't know... Seems as though Deacon and yourselves get a real kick out of it.
clyde		Now see, this is what I am talking about. It's your attitude. It's the disobedience, the cussing...Sooner we get what we want, then no further harm has to fall upon you and your wife.
mike		Way I see it, you need us alive. You need us, period. And now that Park Services and State Police are looking for us, you're starting to panic, 
sheryl		 No.
sheryl		 No!
clyde		What was that?
ida		Deacon!   Stop right there!
ida		Out!   Get out!
clyde		This is getting out of hand, y'all. Nobody wanted what just almost happened to Sheryl to happen. But, you keep dragging this thing out... things are gonna... happen.
ida		I sent Deacon away for a bit. He knows he done wrong. You say right now that you are ready to perform your marital duties, then I'll keep him away.
mike		Have you ever thought that God doesn't want you to have a child? That's why he fucking kills them before they're born. Because you're fucking insane monsters that don't deserve a child.
ida		You take that back!
mike		No.
ida		Take it back.
mike		Go ahead and torture me. There's absolutely no way I would ever give a child of mine to you.
ida		How very brave. Fine. I won't torture you.  I'll torture her. I can bring back Deacon. Let him have her. Plenty of other holes he can go into where a baby can't be made.
ida		Or maybe we can just start dicing. All we need is a healthy heart, brain and uterus. She don't need the rest of her fingers, or toes... or her nose, ears. I could carve out her eye right now.
mike		No!
ida		Then you will give me my baby. My child, born in wedlock, saved from its sinner parents and raised to fear God and give him praise.
sheryl		That's why you married us? So we could conceive our child in wedlock? The fucking joke's on you... I'm already pregnant. Eight weeks yesterday.
ida		You're lying.
sheryl		I was trying to find the right time to tell you.
ida		No, no, no, no!    This can't be.   NO!
lonnie		We shouldn't just go in.      Ain't right.
brody		I'm going in. You don't want to, then don't. Check round back or something.
lonnie		Hello?
mike		Help!    Down here!
clyde		Ida...   you know what we have to do?
ida		 No. I can give her an abortion. Get rid of the bastard child, make them conceive one in wedlock. And then we are right as rain.
clyde		Abortion?    No. That we won't do.
ida		It'll work. Ain't no sin to abort a demon.
clyde		Ida, writings on the wall here. Michael's right. With a reward on the table, do you think Brody and Lonnie will be the only two coming? Gonna have lots people looking for these two.  We're gonna have to make it so no one can ever find them.
ida		No.
clyde		We'll find another couple, Ida.
ida		No. You promised me, Clyde, this time was the one.
clyde		It's too dangerous. We'll find another couple. A better one.
ida		 It's not fair.
clyde		I'll do what needs to be done. You finish up here... And watch your time, rain's coming.
clyde		What the...?
mike		Believe me, I understand your extreme situation, but... Punishment's going to have to be handed down.
mike		One down.
mike		Fuck.
sheryl		What is it?
mike		No more ammo.
ida		NO!
ida		In for a penny, in for a pound. I can't save your soul now, Michael. I tried. I gave you a way to cleanse yourself of all your sins and deliver you to heaven... and how do you repay me?
ida		BY KILLING MY CLYDE?!?
ida		There is no soul blacker than yours. And now, by the grace of God, I must deliver you to Satan myself.
mike		I can't make it.
sheryl		I'm not leaving you.
mike		 My gun. See if you can find our stuff. My gun's in my backpack, side pocket.
sheryl		What good's the gun?        You tossed away the bullets.
mike		There's another box of ammo.
sheryl		Mike...!?!
mike		Let's get out of this alive first, then you can bitch me out, okay?
mike		It's okay, baby.      Go.
sheryl		 Hello? Come in, please.      We need help. Is anyone there?
evelyn		This is Ranger Base, Go again?
sheryl		Mike!
mike		Sheryl!  A path of blood left in Mike's wake.  140   INT.   CHAPEL                                                 140  Sheryl shakes the cobwebs free, opens her eyes, moves her head slightly, just as...  SLAM. THE SICKLE BLADE SLAMS INTO THE WOODEN FLOOR AN INCH AWAY FROM SHERYL'S HEAD.  Sheryl scrambles to her feet, when...  SQUISH. HER FOOT STEPS DOWN ON TOP OF THE SMALLEST FETUS. PUSS AND MUCUS OOZE OUT.  Deacon tries to push the shelf off him.   It's heavy.   It moves a little.  Sheryl limps up the trap door steps.  141   INT.   HALLWAY - IDA'S CABIN BASEMENT                         141  Mike pushes up against the Iron Door, but it doesn't move. The shelf wall blocks it.  142   EXT.   IDA'S CABIN - NIGHT                                    142  Sheryl races from the cabin.   RAIN POURING DOWN ON HER.     She spies...  ANGLE ON - Moonshine jar, a lighter.    The ones Ida used earlier.  143   INT.   CHAPEL                                                 143  Deacon pushes the shelves again, this time success.     He gets to his feet, grabs his weapon.  144   INT.   HALLWAY - IDA'S CABIN BASEMENT                         144  Mike, with every ounce of strength left, PUSHES at the iron door. It budges, just a little. He PUSHES again and, finally, THE DOOR OPENS! Mike scrambles into the Chapel.  145   EXT.   IDA'S CABIN - NIGHT                                    145  Deacon exits the cabin, steps off the porch. He peers into the rain and the darkness of the woods surrounding the cabin. No Sheryl anywhere. 
sheryl		Burn in hell you sonofabitch!
sheryl		You did it, baby. You saved me. You said you would and you did. Stay with me, Mike. Stay with me.
mike		 Love you.
sheryl		Well, if you love me... Fight.    Please baby, fight.
sheryl		I'll be back in a second, Mike.
sheryl		Don't you even fucking think about leaving me alone.
sheryl		Shit.  Come on, baby. Fight.
sheryl		Oh please God.
evelyn		Called your folks. There gunna meet us at the hospital. Be a while since they're coming in from D.C.
evelyn		Sorry, but I just have to ask... You told the Sheriff there was someone in on this whole thing with Clyde and Ida. Big fella, scars all over him?  Mame?
sheryl		Why?   What is it?
evelyn		 You've had an exhausting night, why don't you...
sheryl		 What is it?
evelyn		We didn't find anybody like that in the yard or the house.
sheryl		 No. It's not possible.
evelyn		Calm down.     It's gunna be alright...
sheryl		Fuck you it's gonna be alright.
****Dialogues from script :Time_Machine.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Tin_Cup.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY  1.  TINNY CHEATIN' HEART MUSIC, the dull GROAN of a TRACTOR, CRICKETS CHIRPIN' love songs, sporadic ZAPS from BUG LIGHTS, and an occasional random THWOCK as we --
romeo		Okay, all bets are down!
2.		ROMEO Number one is the winner! Dewey has the winner. Pays five to two!
tin cup		Don't you shitheels ever get bored?
tin cup		... 'Cuz I got a riddle.
tin cup		Takes about two ounces of brains to figure it out. Anyone think they got a brain with two ounces of brains in it?
tin cup		For Chrissakes, boys! A little self-confidence from the players' gallery. We ain't talking long division.
earl		 How much we gotta lose?
tin cup		You want to liven things up, Earl? That's a hell of an idea. Say everyone puts in twenty bucks and the pot goes to whoever solves the riddle.
dewey		You going to get the riddle, Tin Cup?
tin cup		 Dewey. I'm the one asking the riddle. I already know the answer. I don't getta guess. Although... We could say if I get to five hundred bounces and no one gets the riddle, I get the pot. And I know what you're thinking. It's an impossible riddle. Well, It's not. It's an easy riddle. And if somehow by the grace of fluke luck I win, and you all don't agree it was an easy riddle, hell, I'll refund your money.
tin cup		Okay, a man's driving down the road with his son and they get in a crash. Two ambulances come and take the man and his son to different hospitals. Son goes into the operating room, the doctor looks at him and says, 'I can't operate on this boy. He's my son.' How's that possible?  The clock's ticking boys...
earl		Father didn't sneak back in, right? He's still at the other hospital?
tin cup		It ain't 'Star Trek,' Earl.   No one beamed him aboard.
earl		Well... if the father married the son's daughter --
tin cup		It's a family riddle, Earl.   Think clean thoughts.
4.		The regulars puzzle some more.
clint		Give us a little hint.
molly		The doctor is the son's mother. Feminists pose the riddle to reveal how deeply our sexual stereotypes run.  I take it you're a feminist?
tin cup		Ma'am, I've been called a lot of things -- but no one's ever saddled me with that one.
molly		You might try being saddled sometime -- the smell of leather, the sting of a whip...
tin cup		 I'm just a humble golf pro...
molly		You're Roy McAvoy the golf pro? I pictured something... different. I have a seven o'clock lesson.
tin cup		I thought I had a Doctor Griswold
5.		at seven.
tin cup		The first thing you gotta learn about this game, Doc, is it ain't about hitting a little white ball into some yonder hole. It's about inner demons and self-doubt and human frailty and overcoming all that crap. So... what kinda doctor'd you say you were?
molly		I'm a psychologist -- in layman's terms call me a neo-Jungian, post- modern Freudian, holistic secularist.
tin cup		Damn.
molly		Inner demons and human frailty are my life's work. I used to practice in El Paso but I've moved here now...
tin cup		What're those?
molly		I ordered these from the Golf Channel.
tin cup		That stuff's a waste of money.
molly		I'm sure there are excesses and repetitions here, but I believe in the gathering of knowledge and I figured, well, there must be some truths about the golf swing illustrated by these devices -- and that you'd help me sort through it.
molly		I have dozens of golf videotapes, too... And a golf watch.
tin cup		 Take it off. All of it. Now! You're a smart woman, for Chrissakes -- don't you know the work of charlatans when you see it?
molly		No. I can always tell when someone is lying to himself, but I'm quite susceptible and frequently wrong when that person lies to me.  That stuff cost me over 200 dollars --
tin cup		Then it's 200 dollars of shit...
tin cup		Go ahead.   Take a swing.
7.		MOLLY Aw, fuck...
tin cup		Well, you talk like a golfer --
molly		Shit.
tin cup		'Fuck...' 'Shit...' these are highly technical golf terms and you're using them on your first lesson -- this is promising.
molly		Awright, wise ass, show me.
tin cup		Something like that.
molly		Impressive. Y'know, I tend to process things verbally. Can you break down into words how you did that?
tin cup		'What is the golf swing?' -- by Roy McAvoy.  The golf swing is a poem.
8.		baton.  Lowly and slowly the clubhead is pulled back, led into position not by the hands but the body which turns away from the target, shifting to the right side without shifting balance. Tempo is everything, perfection unobtainable, as the body coils, now to the top of the swing, in profound equilibrium. And then a slight hesitation, a nod to the gods...
molly		A nod to the gods?
tin cup		To the gods, yes... that he is fallible. As the weight shifts back to the left pulled now by powers inside the earth -- it's alive, this swing, a living sculpture -- and down through contact, always down, into terra firma, striking the ball crisply -- with character -- a tuning fork goes off in your heart, your balls -- such a pure feeling is the well-struck golf shot -- And then the follow through to finish, always on line -- The reverse 'C' of the Golden Bear, the steelworker's power and brawn of Carl Sandburg's Arnold Palmer, the da Vinci of Hogan, the unfinished symphony of Roy McAvoy.
molly		What?    What's unfinished?
tin cup		I have a short follow through -- my swing can look unfinished.
molly		Why?
tin cup		Some say it's because that's the best way to play through the winds of West Texas... and some say it's because I never finish anything. You can decide. The point is every finishing position is unique as if that is the signature left to the artist, the warrior athlete who,
9.		finally and thereby, has asserted his oneness with and power over the universe by willing a golf ball to go where he wants and how and when, because that is what the golf swing is about...  It is about gaining control of your life, and letting go at the same time.
molly		Jeez Louise...
tin cup		There is only one other acceptable theory of how to hit a golf ball.
molly		I'm afraid to ask. What's the other theory?
tin cup		Grip it and rip it.
molly		While I appreciate your poetic sensibility, Mr. McAvoy --
tin cup		Call me Roy, Molly...
molly		Call me Dr. Griswold...
tin cup		Waggle it, Doc, don't forget to waggle.  ... it's a little relaxing ritual...
10.		TIN CUP Let the Big Dog eat!
molly		What Big Dog?
tin cup		The driver, the number one wood --
molly		It's metal.
tin cup		Yeah, woods are metal -- don't worry about it -- and the driver's known as the Big Dog and I'm just saying to turn him loose, let 'er rip, let the Big Dog eat!
molly		Oh.
molly		This is, without a doubt, the stupidest, silliest, most idiotic grotesquery masquerading as a game that has ever been invented.
tin cup		 And if you hit one good shot -- if that tuning fork rings in your loin -- you can't wait to get back.
molly		I think the Big Dog ate something.
tin cup		Did the tuning fork ring in your loin?
molly		I wouldn't go that far.
tin cup		Always quit on a good shot. We'll call that lesson number one...
11.		 ... and if ya wouldn't mind paying me in cash -- there's a little I.R.S. situation I'm dealing with --
molly		If you're such a legendary striker of the golf ball as everyone says, then why are you, at your age, out here in the middle of nowhere operating a barely solvent establishment, ducking the I.R.S., collecting a few pathetic dollars to buy your next sixpack -- when you're capable of so much more?
tin cup		Perhaps I'm chocked full of inner demons?
molly		No, you're chocked full of bullshit --  Same time next week?
tin cup		What did you mean I should try 'being saddled' sometime?
jose		I got it!   Esta bien!    The flag is up!
tin cup		A class act there, boys -- probably the first actual `lady type' female ever seen on these premises --
romeo		Shut up, boss -- we got the Corpus Christi dog track on the dish --
earl		This is yer dead mortal cinch lock bet with Do-reen.
tin cup		Free money, boys, what does Doreen know about the fine art of Greyhound breeding?
romeo		All she knows is she likes the three dog 'cause his name is Pride of Odessa 'cause she's from Odessa.
tin cup		Get ready for Oddessa-lation, boys. How deep we in?
romeo		You gave her twenty to one --
earl		It's only fifteen to one on the toteboard --
tin cup		Yeah, but I got every other dog in the race. I'm just getting even with Doreen -- I'm not trying to clean her clock.
clint		So how much you stand to lose?
romeo		Twelve thousand.
tin cup		Hundred.
romeo		Thousand.
tin cup		 Hundred.
romeo		You said to shoot the wad.
tin cup		I said get even, Pod. I didn't say shoot the wad. We better see that three dog rolling on his ass.
earl		Except... if he breaks slow, he won't get creamed...
regulars		Three dog's dying, T.C.... easy money... 
regulars		Uh-oh.
romeo		So, Roy, you were saying you felt a little flutter for this doctor lady?
tin cup		Yes, I was saying that... just before I was interrupted by... bankruptcy -- a development that the 'Doctor Lady,' as you call her,
14.		will consider utterly predictable.
romeo		We lost everything, boss! We owe Doreen twelve thousand bucks!
tin cup		I think I been dating too many big-haired blondes.
romeo		Them big-haired blondes are a lot smarter 'n us...  ... how we gonna pay her?
tin cup		You underestimate me, Romes.
romeo		It's a bad habit I picked up from knowing you so long.
tin cup		I'm sure she is...
tin cup		Busy man, Courtenay, busy man --
naked dancer		Tin Cup!     Hi, sweetie!
tin cup		Hiya, honey -- lookin' sweet...
tin cup		Doreen...
romeo		You're looking particularly lovely this evening -- This is nicer than the leopard suit --
doreen		Cut the horseshit, guys. So... the one and two dogs always run wide and the three dog always breaks slow, so I figure there's gonna be a big ol' pile of fur at the turn and the three dog's gonna tiptoe around it and walk on home... I was right.  You owe me twelve thousand dollars.
romeo		We going to pay you.
doreen		I know you're going to pay me.
tin cup		There. With equity and inventory it's worth twelve grand... more or less.
doreen		This is how you think you can settle up? By deeding me your driving range?
tin cup		Only on condition you don't sell right away, and me'n Romeo keep our jobs.
doreen		What in the world would I want with your stupid driving range?
tin cup		Equity, inventory, cash flow... not to mention an enhanced stature in the community, and prepaid membership in the Salome Chamber of Commerce.
doreen		What are your labor costs?  Payroll, Roy. What do you pay
17.		your help?
tin cup		Let's see... the tractor kid gets five bucks an hour. Romeo, he gets ten cash --
doreen		What do you pay yourself?
tin cup		Myself?
doreen		To hit golf balls all day... when you're not breaking for beers or corn dogs or to gather the guys and lay bets on which crow flies off the fence next.
tin cup		You're referring to my managerial salary?
doreen		I'm referring to every nickel you snatch out of the till and every bag of beer nuts you lift from the rack, is what I'm referring to.  I'll say it's worth ten and you still owe me two.
tin cup		I still got two grand to pay off. And I can't see my new salary of seven bucks an hour plus lessons getting it done.
romeo		But your clubs are your livelihood.
tin cup		Well the hood ain't too lively at the moment.
tin cup		Whoever it is, tell 'em I'm in Houston on business.
romeo		David Simms!   What you doing in town?
simms		Romeo! It's been awhile.    Is Tin Cup around?
romeo		He's on business in Houston... You supposed to be out playin' on the golf tour.
simms		 Well, you tell him I'm in town for my big charity best-ball tournament, and I got a spot for him when he comes back from... whatever.
romeo		You got a spot for Tin Cup?   I thought you hated him.
simms		Romeo! You wound me. I'm fond of the guy, going way back to our days at University of Houston, when we won all those titles together.
romeo		He says he carried you on his back.
simms		I didn't have much craft back then -- just a little native ability. Roy's a great ball- striker....
romeo		Why you here?
simms		I want to win my own tournament, and he can help me if we can manage to behave like grownups together. Tell him that.
tin cup		What's the catch?
simms		There is no catch. I put together a tournament with an elite field and a half-million dollar purse, and I'm tired of seeing all the money head out of town.
tin cup		Then make more birdies.
20.		SIMMS I need you on my team.
tin cup		You ain't that friendly a guy...
simms		We're playing Cottonwood where you once shot fifty-nine, where you can shoot sixty-five in your sleep 'cuz you know every bump on every fairway, every subtle break on every green --
tin cup		 You an' me --
simms		Me an' you -- like the old days.
tin cup		... Well, put 'er there, partner! These two homeboys are gonna show the world what golf in West Texas is all about!
simms		No, Roy. I didn't mean I want you to play with me. I just want you to caddie for me, read my putts, club me, that kinda stuff.
romeo		You son of a bitch.
tin cup		 Caddie? Me?
simms		I can't bring a guy in off the street to play in my tournament. It's a big-time event, corporate sponsors, thirty dollar tickets... I got a network to cover --
romeo		(interrupting,
21.		outraged) This guy off the street, he could kick your ass on that golf course. Like he kicked your ass in junior golf. Like he kicked your ass in college. Like --
simms		I'll pay you a hundred for the loop, five percent of any earnings --
romeo		Get the hell outta here! Take your goddamn color coordinated corporate sponsored soul and get outta here.
simms		Okay, okay, just thought I'd offer you some work...
tin cup		Simms!
simms		 What?
tin cup		I'll take the job.
romeo		We'll take the job.
simms		Like I told you, it was more'n you had in the bag.
stadler		Yeah, well... I had to go for it after your caddy said he could get home from here.
tin cup		I could.
simms		I gotta hand it to you, Roy. For fifteen holes you've seemed to grasp the concept here: I'm trying to win and your job is to help me.
23.		TIN CUP Five percent of your earnings does numb the gag reflex.
simms		Give me the seven iron.   I'm laying up.
tin cup		You can make that shot.
simms		The smart play's to lay up.
tin cup		These fans didn't pay thirty bucks to watch a tour star lay up on a short par five.
simms		I'm sitting on a two shot lead with three to go, and my partner's in his pocket. Suddenly, par's a good number. Gimme the seven Iron.
tin cup		No way. You're going for the green. These fans paid good money to see golf shots they can't hit, not golf shots they feel shitty about themselves for having to hit.
tin cup		Thirteen years on tour and you're still a pussy. Hit the fucking one iron, Dave.
simms		Thirteen years in a driving range and you still think this game's about your testosterone count.
tin cup		Two-fifteen to carry, and the tour star's laying up.
24.		if reconsidering.
simms		But if you're gonna editorialize, do it on the other side of the ropes. I got no qualms about firing your ass right here, right now.
tin cup		Fire me?   Hell, I should fire you.
romeo		He can.
stadler		Hey, Dave!   We in a hurry?
stadler		'Cause I just bet McCord and Mickelson that your caddie could knock it on from here.
simms		We're trying to win a tournament, pardo.
stadler		I know.    But I'm getting five to one.
stadler		Here ya go.   Take a hack at it.
simms		Balls versus brains, Roy. You hit that shot, just keep walking, 'cuz your ass is fired.
tin cup		How you gonna fire me in front of all these people? Especially when I knock it on the green.
kostis		 It seems like the Charity Tournament is taking a little
26.		break for a side bet, here --
simms		Take a hike, Roy -- the loop's over.
tin cup		You can't fire me. How can you fire me? I just knocked it stiff from two fifty. Gimme that bag.
simms		Security!
tin cup		What about my money?
simms		You just hit the shot that took you out of the money. Welcome to life on the tour.
wider		 The Regulars crowd under the TV on the wall above the till, hooting at what they just saw. Tin Cup is nowhere in sight.
28.		TIN CUP If I had it all to do over, I'd still hit that shot.
romeo		 The look comes over your face, you would bury yourself alive to prove you can handle a shovel.
tin cup		You know why I'd still hit that shot?
romeo		'Cuz it's the only way you can beat David Simms. 'Cuz you never got over that he is on tour and you are not. 'Cuz you get that look on your face...
tin cup		No...  I'd hit it again because that shot was a defining moment. And when a defining moment comes along you define the moment or the moment defines you. I did not shrink from the challenge. I rose to it.
romeo		1981, Fort Washington Golf Club, Fresno, California, final round of the Tour Qualifying School...
tin cup		I was playing to win.
romeo		A defining moment when you tried to hit the same impossible cut
29.		three wood into the wind from a hilly lie -- four in a row out of bounds -- until you finally pulled it off and tapped in for a thirteen.  When a twelve woulda got you on the tour! That was a defining moment and the definition was shit!
tin cup		Greatness courts failure, Romeo. That's why most people, in their whole lives, never ever reach for the brass ring, never know when to dig deep and try for the impossible shot...
romeo		You're right about that, boss, but sometimes... sometimes... par is good enough to win.
doreen		The DieHard/West Texas Calcutta, the Duvall County Boys Club Pro/ Scratch, Woody's Steak House One Club Scramble... what do I want with all these entry forms?
30.		TIN CUP It's a business proposition. I'm offering you my winnings from all them tournaments this summer.
doreen		In exchange for what?
tin cup		My driving range back.
doreen		Roy, I'm not as dumb as my hair makes me look.
tin cup		They ain't all strictly minor league. One of 'em pays almost two grand!
tin cup		Now wait, Doreen. You gotta do the math, and you gotta look at how good I'm playing. I hit the shot of the tournament at the best-ball. They put it on national TV.
doreen		I saw.
tin cup		And what does that tell you?
tin cup		 And what does that tell you?
doreen		It tells me you took an unauthorized day off. Next time it happens, you're fired. In the meantime, I'm putting in a time clock.
tin cup		I'm not punching in no time
31.		clock like some working stiff!
tin cup		Am I early?
molly		Mr. McAvoy, I can appreciate that you have a fairly laid-back, relaxed lifestyle -- but I have hours to keep.
tin cup		A former paramour once ascribed my fluid sense of time to being born under the sign of Pisces -- something about floating through the universe --
molly		You amuse me, Roy. But I'm the only woman in America born after World War II who thinks astrology is a crock of shit.  Now let's see if the Big Dog'll eat.
tin cup		Waggle.
molly		I'm waggling...
tin cup		Set up to the ball like I showed you last time.
32.		mechanical.   Tin Cup winces.    But she looks terrific.
tin cup		Quit trying to wring that club's neck, Molly. Show it a little warmth and compassion...
tin cup		Remember, this game's about trust and touch and letting go. So while I'm subtly enhancing your technical prospects, why don't you tell me all about your personal life...
molly		It's none of your fucking business, Roy.
tin cup		Your boyfriend's a golfer -- that's my bet -- and he's why you're taking this game up. Hell, I probably even know him --
molly		 Hi, sweetie...
tin cup		Not him...
romeo		Man, you are having a bad week.
tin cup		She must think I'm such a nothing, such a loser... a lousy driving range pro living in a Winnebago, making five bucks an hour plus lessons.
romeo		She don't know you live in a Winnebago.
tin cup		Well, she sure as hell knows I ain't taking her to no Doral for massages and mimosas all weekend. I gotta do something with my life.
tin cup		I gotta rise to a level worthy of the women that think I'm a joke.
romeo		Well... you could go out and win The Open.
tin cup		 Romeo, that idea has promise.
romeo		I was joking.
tin cup		I ain't.
tin cup		Not just the biggest golf Tournament in the world; the most democratic.
romeo		What do you mean?
tin cup		I mean it's open. Anyone's got a shot at it. You just gotta get past a local and a sectional qualifier, and unlike Doral or Colonial or the A.T.T., they can't keep you out. They can't ask you if you're a garbageman or a bean- picker or a driving range pro whose check is signed by a stripper. You qualify, you're in.
romeo		And then you pay out of your own pocket to go there and get all nervous and intimidated --
tin cup		Who's intimidated? I just told you I'm gonna win the damn thing!
romeo		You don't got the game.
tin cup		I got every shot in the book.
romeo		I said you don't got the game. The mental game. The head game.
tin cup		You suggesting I err on the side of excess?
romeo		You always go out to shoot zero. Sometimes you pull it off. But you can't play like that at the Open. You win by taking what the course gives you. You win by being humble, which you aren't, and patient, which you never will
35.		be.
tin cup		Well, since you're the authority, How'd you like to teach me how to be what I ain't and never will be?
romeo		You don't ever listen to me.
tin cup		This time'll be different.   I promise.
romeo		I don't know, man. Right now you don't even got the money to get your clubs out of hock.
tin cup		Yeah, well... my sticks may be in a pawn shop, but I got a rake and a hoe at the range.
boone		Let me get this straight -- you're going to play me for four hundred dollars with those?
tin cup		And I'll give ya two a side... I got the title to my car as collateral.
36.		BOONE I'm not interested in that piece of shit.
tin cup		That's cuz you think of it as transportation, Boone. Think of it as bragging rights. Think of yourself sitting around the bar crowing to your buddies about the Cadillac you won off Tin Cup McAvoy.  They'll forget all about the Winnebago you lost to me.
boone		No mullies, no gimmes, no bumping the ball --
boone		Nutted it.
tin cup		I'll be playing a Pink Lady today.
boone		That little pink fag ball supposed to rattle me?
tin cup		Not unless I knock it by you.
37.		where Boone has arrived with his caddie at his drive.
tin cup		Yep, I caught this thing way the Hell on the toe.
boone		Drive for show, putt for dough, big shot.
tin cup		Did you hear that, Romeo? Boone was being profound! He has revealed to me the essential mystery of golf! Drive for show, putt for dough...  Louisville Slugger, please.
romeo		You got Boone shakin' already --  Front left bunker's your best angle to the pin.
tin cup		 Front left bunker -- plugged lie.
boone		I want to see a legitimate swing. No scooping.
tin cup		Stand, please.     Gallery, please, stand.
38.		He addresses the ball, choking down on the hoe, positioning the blade at an odd angle. He hacks at the ball with an unorthodox chopping motion. The ball pops up in the air, lands on the green, releases and rolls up a foot from the hole.
tin cup		I'll finish.
boone		Get the hell off my course.
tin cup		Listen, swami, your job is to teach me patience and humility, not to advise me on my love life.
romeo		No. My job is to get your head straight so you can qualify for The Open, much less win it. To get your head straight you got to forget about the doctor lady.
tin cup		Not all my thinking occurs below the belt. I actually stand for a few things beside where my next romantic interlude is coming from.
romeo		Then you got no problem telling the doctor lady you can't teach her no more till after the Open.
39.		TIN CUP That would make an issue of something that ain't an issue. Besides, I'm focused.
tin cup		I mean, this is my quest!
romeo		Ahhh... your quest... chingaso...
tin cup		This is where I stand up for all the little guys everywhere who've had their fill of soulless robots like David Simms --
romeo		He may be a soulless robot but he's a rich, happy soulless robot with a beautiful doctor lady girlfriend who's got you by the huevos --  Besides, how is getting into the U.S. Open gonna change what she thinks about you?
tin cup		It'll prove to her that I'm not who she thinks I am.
romeo		But you are who she thinks you are! Look, I don't bet on a horse with a hard-on.
tin cup		Hard-on?! Hard-on?! Hard-on?! Here, touch me, feel --  I don't feel nothing! Here!
romeo		 Hey, hey... shit... cool it...
40.		The car disappears down the street. Tin Cup cools off, chilled, really -- and full of chagrin.
tin cup		Okay, okay... maybe I got a semi.
doreen		I cannot give you time off to win The Open. I don't care if it's your 'quest'...  You shoulda treated me nicer when we were an item -- then maybe I wouldn't be such a nasty boss. G'bye, Roy -- I have a business to run.
tin cup		Man, ever since I let her dump my ass she just can't resist kicking me in it.
romeo		Maybe you should treat her more like a lady.
tin cup		After she ran off with that Dallas banker?
romeo		She did that after you let her dump you. It wouldn't kill you just once to tell her she's beautiful, she can dance, she's
41.		sexy.
tin cup		Romeo... are you sweet on Doreen?
romeo		No more'n you are for that doctor lady.
tin cup		Great, Romeo, just great... just when I need you to be my friend and coach, you go get all gooey about one of my ex-girlfriends who just happens to be our boss.
romeo		Anybody comes to me for help on their love life about women is already too far gone.
tin cup		I don't recall asking you for advice.  Women are tougher to figure out than a feathered one iron from a tight lie --
romeo		Actually if you open the club face a hair and play it off your back foot --
tin cup		Shut up, Romeo... I wasn't really seeking golf tips...
romeo		It's all I'm good for -- but you can count on me for that, at least.
tin cup		How far off the back foot?
romeo		'Bout three balls...
42.		TIN CUP I'm ready to charge forth in pursuit of my mythic destiny and I can't get time off work to do it.
romeo		I'm no expert, but it seems to me that the `pursuit of a person's mythic destiny' is not the sort of thing that a person needs to get off a five dollar an hour job in order to do...
tin cup		I'm stuck. Buried. My life's a plugged lie in a kakuyi bunker with a tight pin position on a green with a stimp meter reading of thirteen.  I need a shrink.
romeo		You don't know no shrinks.
tin cup		I know one.
romeo		Not the doctor lady?
tin cup		Why not?
romeo		You can't ask advice about the woman you're trying to hose from the woman you're trying to hose!
tin cup		Hose?! Hose?! Get your mouth outta the gutter! This is a matter of the heart!
tin cup		I didn't do anything!
molly		I know... I know... wait in there.
molly		Roy... are you okay?
tin cup		I need therapy.
molly		Obviously.
tin cup		What do I do? I mean... to do it ... therapy... I mean, how do I start doing... it.
molly		In parlance you might understand, just kick back and let the Big Dog eat.
tin cup		Okay, okay, let 'er rip...  Suppose there's this guy. He's standing on the shore of a big, wide river. And the river's fulla all manner of disaster, like alligators and piranhas and currents and eddies, and most people won't even go down there to dip a toe. But on the other side of the river's a million dollars, and on this side of the river there's a rowboat. I guess my question's this: What would possess the guy on shore to swim for it?
molly		He's an idiot.
tin cup		No. He's a hell of a swimmer, see. His problem's more like... why's he always gotta rise to the challenge?
molly		He's a juvenile idiot.
tin cup		You don't understand what I mean by the river.
molly		We're talking about you and what you like to call your inner demons, Roy, that human frailty you like to blather about, not some mytho-poetic metaphor you come up with in a feeble and transparent effort to do yourself credit.
tin cup		Y'mean you're gonna make me feel lousy? I came here to feel better -- what kinda therapy is this?
molly		You don't have any inner demons. What you have is inner crapola, inner debris -- garbage, loose wires, horseshit in staggering amounts.
molly		You're being defensive -- cut to the chase and tell me why you're here.
tin cup		Well... I'm smitten with a woman.
molly		That's good.   Is she smitten with you?
tin cup		Not yet.
molly		Have you asked her out?
tin cup		She's seeing a guy. I don't know how serious it is, but the guy's a real horse's ass, in my opinion...
molly		If you shared your heart with this woman -- maybe asked her out to dinner -- then it would force these issues out in the open.
tin cup		I'm afraid she'll say no.
molly		Ahh... so what you're saying is that all your speeches about swimming across the shark infested waters are really just about your golf game -- not about your personal life.
tin cup		Christ, I didn't know we were gonna get into my personal life!
molly		This is therapy!
tin cup		Well, jeez, I know, but I didn't think it was that kind of therapy...
46.		MOLLY What were you expecting?    Ann Landers?
tin cup		Yeah.
molly		Look, it's rather simple. Those risks that you love to take on the golf course, the risks you talk so passionately and poetically about -- you need to apply those risks to your personal life with the same passion.
tin cup		I should ask this woman out.
molly		Yes!
tin cup		I should risk coming right over the top and snap-hooking it out of bounds left.
molly		Yes!
tin cup		Risk hitting it a little thin and --
molly		For Godsakes, Roy, that's enough!
tin cup		Right.   Sorry.
molly		S'okay...  Look, just walk up to this woman, wherever she is, look her in the eye with those big beautiful green eyes of yours, let down your guard and don't try to be smooth or cool or whatever -- just be honest and take the risk -- you can do it!
tin cup		Dr. Griswold -- I think I'm in
47.		love with you.
molly		What?!
tin cup		From the moment I first saw you I knew I was through with bar girls and strippers and motorcycle chicks, and when you started talking I was smitten and I'm smitten more every day I think about you -- and the fact that you know I'm full of crapola only makes you more attractive to me because usually I can bullshit people but I can't bullshit you and in addition, most women I'm thinking about how to get into their pants from Day One but with you I'm just thinking about how to get into your heart --
molly		My God...
tin cup		 Stunned, eh? So what about dinner and we can talk about `us' and if we have a future and how to drop that horse's ass boyfriend of yours --
molly		Roy, slow down --
tin cup		Hey! I just hit a eight degree driver off a cart path here, I'm staring eagle in the face --
molly		This is a terrible mistake!
tin cup		I'm acting from the heart so I can't make a mistake?! Right?
48.		MOLLY Wrong.  Aw, shit...  I am one horrible shrink... jeez... I didn't know you were talking about me.
tin cup		Would your advice have been different?
molly		Session's over. You better leave.
tin cup		I'm gonna qualify for the U.S. Open and kick your boyfriend's ass.
molly		Please leave.
tin cup		Whatever you think of me, you should know that your boyfriend hates old people, children, and dogs.
tin cup		 Dollar bills...
tin cup		Dollar bills...
49.		ROMEO How'd it go with the doctor lady, boss?
tin cup		If she was a par three, I'd'a made a nine.
romeo		Stroke and distance, eh?
tin cup		 Dollar bills...
clint		What's he saying?
romeo		Dollar bills. His divots got to look like dollar bills. 'Course Moe Norman hits divots like bacon strips 'cuz he come over the top, but that's gettin' too technical for you.
clint		See that, boys? He's hitting dollar bills. Tightening his game.
clint		Uh, something us shitheels want you to know, Tin Cup, is uh, well, we been to see Doreen, and we told her we'd stage a customer's strike if she didn't give you time off to win the Open.
tin cup		You perverts did that for me?
jose		We believe in you, man.
earl		And if you get past the local qualifier, we gonna sponsor you.
tin cup		Thanks, boys -- a man couldn't have better friends. Now move the hell back and shut the fuck up. You're messing up my concentration.
tin cup		Debt collection? Process server?
51.		Ex-flame? Jesus, I'm clean.  Who is it?
molly		God, you've got a beautiful swing --
tin cup		-- And big, beautiful green eyes -- I'm a beautiful guy.
molly		I came here to apologize.
tin cup		For what?
molly		Well, I counseled you, you did exactly what I said, and I just... poured cold water over your effort.  I didn't get it. I'm a terrible shrink, probably... I should've never got out of real estate -- actually I should never have left Ohio for that cowboy in Armarillo -- have you ever been to Amarillo?
tin cup		A cowboy?
molly		It's not as romantic when you're actually with one -- a wrangler, y'know -- so of course the oil man in Dallas looked great after that -- I don't know what I was thinking... That's when I went to the gulf and ended up in, well, trailer sales and then all those condos in Corpus Christi -- the bottom fell outta the market and I needed a new gig --
tin cup		A new gig?
molly		Therapy.    I took all the classes.
52.		I'm licensed, y'know.  Anyway, I'm flattered you asked me out. I can't accept because I am involved with David and I haven't seen any evidence that he treats old people, kids or dogs badly.
tin cup		I got a little carried away, I guess. I shoulda just layed up, made my par, and moved on.
molly		Look, I want to propose something -- as long as you understand this is professional -- we're not going out together --
tin cup		Tee it up.
molly		I can help you with the mental aspects of the game. You've got Romeo to be your swing doctor, I can be your head doctor.
tin cup		But you said you were a lousy shrink?
molly		Well, yeah... I'll improve.
tin cup		I got no money to pay for you.
molly		I'll trade my services for golf lessons and help you through the qualifying. If you get into the Open, well, you're on your own.
tin cup		You'll be with David.
molly		Yeah...
romeo		How ya feelin', boss?
tin cup		I'm feelin' like par's a bad score, podnuh -- fifty-eight's within the realm!
romeo		Jesus, the doctor lady's here --
tin cup		Didn't I tell ya? She's gonna be your guru partner. You handle my swing mechanics and she handles my brain mechanics.
romeo		Long as you keep your dick out of it --
tin cup		Me an' the 'big guy' have an understanding. He's gonna lie low till I get in the Open -- then... then...
romeo		The Big Dog'll eat?
tin cup		The Big Dog'll hunt, that's for sure...
54.		swings, and he tees it up.   As he does, Romeo slips over to Molly.
romeo		 Looks like we partners, Dr. Molly --
molly		I just have to help him keep his head on straight --
romeo		If you can, you be the first.
molly		He does have the occasional tendency towards self-destruction it seems.
romeo		It ain't occasional and it ain't no tendency -- it's a fact of life that he gonna blow sky high, it's just a matter of when and how fast can the pieces be put back together.  Behind that twinkle in his eyes is nitroglycerin.
tin cup		Quiet in the gallery! A man's trying to do his job.
tin cup		 Got my 'A' game with me today, folks... you're in for a real treat!
molly		I find him mildly attractive when he's obnoxious and arrogant like this --
55.		ROMEO Good. 'Cause it's his best side...
tin cup		Dollar bills...
tin cup		Nutted it...
tin cup		Ben Hogan?   Who's he?
romeo		They bugging you, boss -- I can shut 'em up?
tin cup		The way I'm swinging today,
56.		nothing bugs me -- except insufficient applause.  Gimme the lumber.
romeo		I think two iron's safer.
tin cup		I said I want the Big Dog.
romeo		Tight par five, out of bounds left... you don't want to hit driver.
tin cup		I'm not going left of those trees. I'm going over those trees... with a little draw. That way I get home in two. That way I'm putting for eagle.
romeo		You don't need eagle to qualify! You need to get used to playing smart -- no mistakes wins the Open.
tin cup		Qualify? I want the course record! Now gimme the lumber!
romeo		You not going to listen to me? You don't care I'm trying to help? You think I'm full of shit?
tin cup		I think I'm gonna get penalized for slow play if you don't give me that fucking driver.
romeo		You a head case, boss, always were, always will be.
57.		TIN CUP Then let's ask the head doctor. Dr. Griswold?  Dr. Griswold, should I hit the Big Dog or the two?
molly		Trust your feelings, Roy.
tin cup		 Ha!   Gimme the driver and shut up.
romeo		... Go ahead.    Hit the driver.
tin cup		I changed my mind. Gimme the three wood.
romeo		You can't clear the dogleg with a three wood.
tin cup		Wanna bet?
tin cup		Guess I'm going with the safe shot, boys.
58.		Romeo stares, aghast.   Tin Cup merely shrugs.
tin cup		Sometimes I fan that two iron. Better gimme the three.
molly		Is this normal behavior for him?
earl		The word 'normal' and him don't collide in the same sentence too often.
tin cup		Sometimes I catch that three a little thin...
tin cup		And I've hooked my four iron...  ... and then there's Mister Three-putt...
59.		broken clubs at his feet.
tin cup		But the seven iron, I never miss the seven iron. It's the only truly safe club in my bag.
tin cup		You happy, Romeo?
romeo		No, boss, I'm tired... my life's too short to spend it watching you fall apart. I done it too many times.
tin cup		What's this? You're quitting? First sign of adversity, you're quitting?  Doc? Take the bet?
molly		Roy -- just shut up and hit the ball.
tin cup		An easy game, this golf...
clint		You the man, Tin Cup!
tin cup		Thanks, boys, what'ya think was my best shot -- the seven iron on twelve, the seven iron on fourteen, or maybe it was the bunker shot on eighteen which, to my recollection was a -- seven iron?
earl		You definitely the man!
tin cup		How'd I do, Doc?
molly		 You failed miserably.
molly		Your job is not just to qualify for the Open, it's to prepare for the Open. My job is to help you prepare.
tin cup		You said to 'trust my feelings'!
molly		I didn't know you felt like breaking all the clubs in your bag.
clint		He didn't break the seven!
earl		He smoked that seven, brother --
molly		From what I understand, the U.S. Open is the most difficult golf tournament in the world played under the most difficult circumstances with the greatest players -- winning it means controlling yourself, managing your emotions, staying cool, not getting in a pissing contest with your caddie who, incidentally, quit.
tin cup		He always quits, he always comes back.
molly		Nonetheless, from the mental aspect -- which is my domain -- you have regressed and are fumbling somewhere between delusion and denial.
tin cup		'Regression, delusion, denial'? You gotta use all this psychological language?
molly		I'm a psychologist.
62.		Tin Cup turns to the regulars for support.
molly		Hi, honey...
tin cup		I shot 65 -- parred the backside with a seven iron.
simms		 Why?
molly		That's the question -- why?
clint		'Cause he broke all his other clubs.
earl		Snapped 'em in two -- even the putter.
simms		Jesus, Roy, I'm on your side here. We go way back... I hope you get into the Open, but if you don't play under control, you'll get slaughtered. Good players shoot 82 in the Open. You can't always go for it.
tin cup		Swear to God, Doc, this guy is not who you think.
clint		It's a well-known fact that if a camera's not on him, he treats old people and children like dirt.
earl		And dogs.
tin cup		Yeah, don't forget the dogs.
molly		I think we should go, David.
simms		I think so...
tin cup		You ever shoot par with a seven iron?
simms		It never occurred to me to try.  C'mon, let's go. The car's over here....
tin cup		I'll bet you a thousand dollars against my car that I can beat you in any game -- any game, you name it -- with a seven iron.
simms		This is ridiculous.
tin cup		You a coward? You gonna lay up the way you did at the Masters last year?
regulars		 Chickie, chickie, chickie...
simms		Any game, I name it?
molly		Oh, come on, David --
simms		I just want to teach him a lesson.
molly		Why do men insist on measuring their dicks?
tin cup		Awright, awright! Let's measure,
64.		right now!
molly		For God sakes, I wasn't being literal!  David, let's go.
simms		Molly, trust me on this one. Call it part of his mental preparation for the Open, where the rough is deep, the greens are slick, and the nerves are shattered.  I'll take the bet.
molly		Oh, jeez...
tin cup		Awright!   What's the game?
simms		One swing each. Who can hit the longest seven iron --
tin cup		It's a lock! I hit the seven like John Daly hits a three!
tin cup		From right here, okay?
simms		Fine with me.
molly		You guys are really being childish --
simms		Molly, leave this one to me.
tin cup		Dr. Griswold, I know what I'm doing.
65.		onto an open area of the course.   Serious, intent, the look of eagles...
tin cup		 Dollar bills...
clint		Them signs are at least thirty yards farther -- that ball musta
tin cup		That ball's about 2-2-7... toed it a bit... but it'll do...
regulars		Nearly 230 with a seven!    Pureed it, baby, he pureed it!
tin cup		Take a minute to limber up, fine with me --
simms		Don't need to.
tin cup		Take your jacket off?
simms		No, no, I'm fine.
tin cup		 You're gonna need to muscle up, big guy -- give it the old steroid jerk...
66.		REGULARS What the hell you doin'?    Wha's this?
clint		You the man, Roy...
earl		You definitely the man...
sammantha		 Hey, honey...
tin cup		Hey, honey...
doreen		I heard you qualified for the Regionals -- why you so down?
tin cup		I broke my clubs -- don't ask why, my caddie's pissed off at me, I lost my wheels in a sucker bet, and my shrink thinks I'm a fool -- 'cause I probably am...
doreen		You're seeing a therapist?!
tin cup		Yeah, what's wrong with that?
doreen		Only way you'd ever go into therapy was if the shrink was a doll and you were trying to get her into the rack --
tin cup		You're so shallow. The Good Doctor and I are dealing with my regression and denial --
doreen		Oh, Tin Cup, what a crock.    You got a hard-on.
guy		You `Tin Cup'?     Won the Local with a seven iron?
tin cup		That's me.
guy		McAvoy?   The Tin Cup McAvoy?
doreen		There's only one -- thank God...
tin cup		Yeah.   You looking for a game?
68.		GUY No, but I'd sure like to show you my grip...
doreen		How long have you been seeing this `Good Doctor'?
tin cup		Excuse me, Dor', the man's having trouble with his grip --
guy		See, I used to play a real weak grip. But you look at Couples, he's got a left hand way over here...
tin cup		No, grip it like this, so you're holding on with the last two fingers of your left hand.
guy		See that? Tin Cup McAvoy says you grip a golf club like this, with these two fingers.
doreen		Roy?  Roy?   Tin Cup? Hello?
tin cup		The grip and address are about 90 percent of the golf swing, so pay attention here...
cowboy		When you're done with him, can I ask you about my club position at address?
69.		SAMMANTHA Am I doing something wrong?
doreen		No, honey, you ain't -- but a healthy woman's only got two choices in this world of ours...  Either fall in love with another woman -- or take up golf.
tin cup		... Now the stronger right-hand grip can help ya draw the ball, which I plan to do at the Regionals next week in Tulsa... just shift the hand over a little bit... blah, blah, blah...
clint		We get through the next 36 holes and we in the Open!
earl		I got the yips and I ain't even teeing it up...
tin cup		Nothing to worry about, boys --
jose		But you ain't got Romeo?
tin cup		Don't need him till the Open -- he'll be back.
70.		CLINT But you don't got the doctor lady?
tin cup		Oh no, I got her. Right here.
tin cup		She can't travel to Arizona for the Regionals -- she's got a busy practice, y'know... so she made me this tape to play while I'm out there... keep me calm, cool, and collected...
earl		What's on it?
tin cup		A little James Taylor, little George Jones, little Kahlil Gibran, little this, little that... and a lotta the voice of the smartest chick I ever met.
earl		The good doctor herself...
clint		Can we hear it or is it personal?
tin cup		Since when is therapy personal, eh?
earl		I think three under will qualify. You need birdie. I could shit.
tin cup		A little more confidence there, Earl...
earl		I wish Romeo was here. I ain't cut out to do this. I'm a spectator by nature. An observer. I'm a --
tin cup		Shut up and hand me the Big Dog.
earl		You got it.
tin cup		The Force is with me, pods...
73.		75   EXT. LA PALOMA - 18TH GREEN - DAY                           75
tin cup		We need this one big time, Earl, whattya think?
earl		 Looks straight to me.
tin cup		Straight?! Thing's a roller coaster breaks four ways and dies at the hole -- you're blind!
earl		Actually, I am blind... 20-60 in one eye -- and that's the good eye...
tin cup		I got a blind caddie... just hold the stick, Earl -- and be sure to pull it out...
tin cup		Doc?  Doc?  Earl, Earl -- the tape's jammed! She's abandoning me!
marshal		Are you okay?
tin cup		Yeah, yeah... I'm flying solo now...
marshal		What?
tin cup		I gotta make this putt.
marshal		Obviously.
tin cup		... just pick the line, feel the speed -- bad timing, doc, Jesus...
tin cup		Like a million others you made in your life, Roy. Just see it going in. Just feel it... right in the back of the jar... just pull the goddamn trigger, you pussy...
tin cup		Pull the stick, Earl, pull it!
tin cup		Choking dogs die!
75.		78   EXT. DRIVING RANGE - DAY                                78
tin cup		Romes!  You've come back!  Earl gave me a straight read -- the thing broke half a dozen times -- missed ya, pods!
tin cup		Okay, don't talk to me -- but you're still my guy...  It's a little late to be pissed off! We're in the Open! You and me!
tin cup		Awright, be that way --  -- say... has Molly been around?
romeo		I knew you had the hots for her.
tin cup		What's this? Garbo speaks? Of course I have the hots for her and I'm doing a damn good job of keeping things platonic and professional till I kick Simms' ass and show her I ain't who she thinks I am because, in fact, I am who she thinks I am but if I win the Open I won't be.
romeo		Well, I don't think her nor me nor the God of Golf his self can keep you from blowing up in the Open...
tin cup		I made it this far! I just got to hold it together for 72 more
76.		holes!
romeo		There's a lotta triple bogeys out there waiting to grab your ass.
tin cup		 You're complaining again! Romeo's back! Whining, bitching, pissed off -- you're my man!
romeo		You didn't fall in love with Earl to be your caddie?
tin cup		He was a wheezing heart attack waiting to happen -- cost me three strokes a side...  I carried my bag the last four holes. I love ol' Earl but I need you.
romeo		You don't love me?
tin cup		 I love you, too, God damn it!
romeo		As much as Earl?
tin cup		I don't know! Yes, yes, as much as Earl --  More than Earl!
romeo		Am I special?
tin cup		If you can remove the sexual connotations and overlay a golf theme, Romeo -- I am your Juliet.
romeo		Muy bien, Julietta. In that case -- I am your caddy once again.
77.		TIN CUP Podnuh.
tin cup		Awright... now that we got that bullshit outta the way, I'm gonna hit me some balls and start oilin' that sweet swing o' mine for the big boys...
tin cup		Nobody heard from Molly, eh?
romeo		You got it bad, don't ya?
tin cup		Somethin' about that chick...
tin cup		Hmmm... little chili dipper there...
romeo		Be sure to do that in the Open.
tin cup		Romeo!
romeo		I'm watching.
tin cup		It ain't no chili dipper.
romeo		Yeah, boss, you got the 'S' word.
tin cup		What am I doing wrong?
romeo		Shanks are like a virus -- they just show up. Nobody can figure 'em out.
tin cup		Romes!   Something's terribly wrong.   What's your guess?!
romeo		It's the woman.
tin cup		I thought you said it was a virus?
romeo		A woman can have the same effect.
tin cup		What do I do?
romeo		Keep swinging...
clint		Never thought it would happen...
earl		The shanks is for us mortals, not
79.		for the great ones...
jose		Esta muy feo... muy, muy feo...
tin cup		Y'know why they named this game 'golf'? 'Cause the words 'fuck' and 'shit' were already taken!
doreen		Hiya, fellas!
tin cup		What is this? Everybody like to watch a train wreck?!
doreen		He's in one of his pleasant moods, I see --
romeo		He's got the shanks. We got the makings of a Greek tragedy here.
doreen		 Quit whining and get over here. We've got something for you.
tin cup		Unless it's a 'swing thought,' I'm not interested...
doreen		 We're here to sponsor you in the
80.		Open. Me an' the boys have pooled our resources and come up with some cash so you can look and feel as spiffy as all them big-name pros.
tin cup		But I got the shanks --
doreen		Yeah, and you obviously still have a hard-on for the doctor chick -- your face is all screwed up and tight like you haven't been laid in awhile --
tin cup		Is it really that obvious?
doreen		It's not a good look for you. Roy, your heart is not the only organ you wear on your sleeve. There's a certain, vulgar appeal to your transparency.
clint		C'mon, Tin Cup, we're trying to make you a presentation --
tin cup		Awright, awright...
doreen		I got the Golden Tassel to sponsor you at the Open.
tin cup		You expect me to pack that around?
romeo		I'm carrying the bag.
doreen		It's worth four hundred dollars endorsement money to you --
81.		EARL See, Dewey got you First State Banking of Salome, and Clint got you Short-Haul Trucking and I got you Brink and Brown sanitation --
tin cup		I'm being sponsored by a sewage disposal system?
earl		We call it human resources management, Roy, please...
jose		I've got Wally's Smokehouse for ya -- kind of a nice sign...
dewey		And since I couldn't get the post office to come aboard, me and my girl friend Muriel's gonna buy a fan club patch you can put anywhere you want.
tin cup		I'm supposed to wear this shit?
jose		This shit is us, man.   You can't win without us.
doreen		You're the pride of Salome!
tin cup		Hell, I won't even make the cut!
doreen		What happened to your confidence?
romeo		He's shanking his love life so he's shanking the golf ball.
doreen		Must be true love.
romeo		He's a goner.
82.		and they're behind him all the way.
tin cup		Look, everybody, this is great. I'm sorry I'm acting so pathetic but my swing's never abandoned me before. I just need a little time to work it out.
earl		Anything you want --
clint		Give him some room, boys --
tin cup		 Oh, sweet Jesus, why have you abandoned me?
doreen		 He's trying to talk to God.   It's time for us to go.
romeo		You want me to stay, boss?
tin cup		I need to be alone.
romeo		You got it.
83.		But Roy isn't driving -- Molly is.    She gets out, goes to the door.
molly		Roy?   Anybody home?
molly		My God...
tin cup		Aarghh...
molly		Roy...
tin cup		Dr. Griswold...
tin cup		The therapist laughs at her patient? Is that how it works? A man is laid bare before God and he's the butt of the cosmic joke?
molly		I'm sorry, I just...
tin cup		Some of this shit might actually
84.		work, y'know... I mean I think there's something to this hat with the pendulum golf ball thing... may be on to something here...
molly		Oh, Roy, Jesus... Quoting yourself, 'It is the paraphernalia for lost and desperate souls.'
tin cup		Well, God damn... a lost and desperate soul stands before you.  I assume I have the confidentiality of doctor-client privilege in regards to this outfit?
molly		Of course you do. What happened?
tin cup		I got the shanks.
molly		Are you taking penicillin?
tin cup		It can't be treated! It's much worse than whatever you thought it was.  There's a glitch in my swing.
molly		So it's in Romeo's department?
tin cup		He thinks it's your department -- says it's a head thing.
molly		Oh. Well. I just came over to congratulate you on the regionals and return your car -- David says he doesn't want it, just wanted to make a point with you --  But I suppose we could have a therapy session right here and now --
85.		TIN CUP I don't want therapy. I want you.
molly		Roy...   I gotta get some air --
tin cup		Look at me --  Tell me you're not at least moderately attracted to me.
molly		You have moments.
tin cup		Tell me which ones are my moments and I'll try to duplicate them.
molly		This is a moment. You look great.
tin cup		Now?!
molly		Utterly exposed, completely vulnerable, the inner child trying to get out.
tin cup		My inner child needs spanking.
molly		You always liked that part about saddling up, the smell of leather --
tin cup		C'mon, let's have a drink. Call it therapy. Charge me 75 an hour. Little Cuervo, little Freud...
molly		Naw... I gotta go.  Oh, I don't have a car, I need a ride.
tin cup		I know a spot along the river's great to watch the sunset?
molly		Not tonight.
tin cup		'Not tonight' means maybe some other night?
molly		I didn't mean it like that.
tin cup		Consciously you didn't mean it like that -- but how about unconsciously, you're the expert, did you mean it unconsciously?
molly		Unconsciously, Roy, I don't have a clue what I'm talking about.
tin cup		I feel we're making progress.
87.		MOLLY I do too. But I have no idea what it's progress towards...
molly		Good luck in the Open, Roy.
tin cup		Put your money on me, Doc, the odds are fabulous and God knows I'm overdue...
romeo		You got to relax, boss --
tin cup		Goin' to the U.S. Open with the shanks. Gonna be chili dipping my way around the course on worldwide television... sure, relax.
romeo		I'm gonna get rid of them shanks for ya. No hay problema.
tin cup		Molly and I are circling each other... I can feel it...
romeo		She the enemy, boss.
tin cup		Naw...
88.		ROMEO Well she wakin' up with the enemy -- same thing.
tin cup		Tell me something, Romes -- the absolute truth -- you think I can go 72 holes without falling apart.
tin cup		You heard me! I don't want no bullshit... do you think I can do it?
romeo		I don't know, boss, I just don't know.
tin cup		I bet this is the first Winnebago they ever saw here...
romeo		Yeah... and the first Mexican...
security guard		Yes?
romeo		Como esta, amigo. I have with me one of the legendary ball strikers in the history of golf --
security guard		Who's that? Mr. Crenshaw? That you? Mr. Price, Mr. Norman? No?
tin cup		Roy 'Tin Cup' McAvoy. Representing the great American Southwest.
security guard		Do we have a... McCormack... on the list.
romeo		McAvoy -- Roy McAvoy -- he's a legend!
security guard		We got over 150 legends in this tournament. Sorry.
security guard		Call the police.
romeo		Police?
tin cup		There's a mistake here, fellas!
cop		We'll throw your ass in jail right now, pal -- there's a lotta lunatics here and we don't take chances...
simms		What's the problem here?
security guard		This clown says he's in the Open...
tin cup		Hiya, David... nice sweater.
security guard		He's not on the list.
simms		Hiya, Roy... welcome to the big leagues...  They spelled your name wrong -- easy mistake with a total unknown.
security guard		 Let him in.
tin cup		Which way to the practice range?
91.		SECURITY GUARD  He said he was a 'legend'?
simms		Oh he is... he's a very big name at a driving range in Salome, Texas...
romeo		Look! Right there! Fred Couples... and Ray Floyd!
tin cup		Look at these balls. Brand new Titleists. Lookit 'em, every one a brand new Titleist.  Sneak a few in the bag when you get a chance. We swipe enough free shit we might even pay for this fiasco.
romeo		You think it would be inappropriate to ask Ray Floyd for an autograph?
tin cup		I think it's a dead giveaway, Romes... but if I still got the shanks we're gonna be found out real fast...
romeo		Hit the seven iron. You never miss the seven...
tin cup		Good thought, Pods...
tin cup		Dollar bills...
tin cup		 Who hit that shot? Anybody see?
romeo		A little thin, Boss.
tin cup		A little fucking thin?! I still got the shanks! Everybody's watching! Christ, Simms is here...
romeo		Maybe we should work on putting. Ya can't shank a putt.
tin cup		If you're the Mexican Mac O'Grady, Romes, you gotta figure out why I'm still shanking the ball.  What's the problem? I'm catching it on the hosel, right? Moving my head? I'm laying off it, I'm pronating, I'm supinating, I'm clearing too early, I'm clearing too late, I'm off plane, I ain't dropping in -- oh, God, my swing feels like an unfolding lawn chair.
romeo		You got a virus in your brain.   I
93.		got to kill the brain to kill the virus.
tin cup		Anything.   Kill me now!
romeo		Put all your change in your right pocket.
romeo		Very good. Now tie your left shoelace in a double knot.
romeo		Esta bueno. Now, turn your hat around backwards and put a blue tee behind your right ear...
tin cup		I'll look like a fool.
romeo		What you think you look like hitting those squirrelly chili peppers up Freddy Couples' ass, eh? Do what I say or I quit.
tin cup		Okay, okay...
romeo		Perfect... now hit a seven iron into that tree over there. You're ready.
tin cup		How'd I do that?
romeo		You ain't thinking about shanking, you ain't thinking about the doctor lady, you ain't thinking period. You just lookin' like a fool and hittin' it pure -- your natural state.
tin cup		Fuck you.
94.		ROMEO You cured.
tin cup		That's it?
romeo		That's it. Your brain was getting in the way.
tin cup		That's rarely been a problem. What now?
romeo		Well, I should recommend you go work on your short game but I think it's better if you go get drunk instead.
tin cup		Get drunk?
romeo		Yeah. You always play better when you're wasted.
tin cup		It's three in the morning, Romes, what time I tee off?
romeo		Seven-o-five... first group off... Keep drinking, keep dancing...
tin cup		That's four hours from now?
romeo		You're drinking till five... c'mon, c'mon, have another --  Get you in shape --
95.		Tin Cup tosses down yet another drink, and staggers around the room with his driver until, finally, he collapses in a heap on the floor. Romeo looks down at him coolly, like horse trainer Wayne Lukas sizing up his Derby entry.
romeo		Nothing like the sight of a finely-tuned athlete on the verge of greatness...
tin cup		No time for a bucket, eh?
romeo		Almost missed the starting time trying to get you off the floor, boss. You don't handle the hooch like you used to...
96.		ROMEO I seen this hole on TV. Hit the big dog down the chute --
tin cup		No, I've learned my lesson. Gonna play it safe, smart, conservative. Fairways and greens. Hand me the two iron.
romeo		You sure?
tin cup		Thought of the day is -- `be humble.'
romeo		Eighty-three.    Well, you humble now.
tin cup		Eleven bogeys and seven pars. I didn't make a three. I didn't make one goddam three all day.
romeo		You weren't trying to make threes. You were trying to avoid making thirteen.
tin cup		I was hungover!
romeo		Maybe that was a coaching error on my part.
tin cup		Thanks, amigo...
tin cup		The Anti-Christ shoots 67, you believe it?
romeo		Ol' Anti-Christ got a hot putter...
tin cup		What? It's about cheating and racism and bullshit!
romeo		Easy, boss...
simms		 So tomorrow I'll just go out there and try to make some good swings and, Lord willing, maybe I can put up another good number. Thank you.
nantz		Thank you, David Simms, a brilliant opening round 67 to take the lead.
98.		FANS David!   David!     Over here!
simms		Gotta go.
old man		Excuse me, Mr. Simms!  Can you sign an autograph for our grandson?
simms		 Can't you see I'm busy?! I'm working! This is my office! Do I come to your office and ask you for an autograph?! Jesus...
simms		 Who the fuck these people think they are...
molly		Old people, children, and dogs...
simms		Got lucky out there...
simms		Hey, Tin Cup -- heard you put a monster number up there...
tin cup		Coulda been worse...
simms		I played in the Pro-Am with some asshole movie star shot 82 here once... how did a great ball- striker like you, a `legend,' manage to shoot an 83?
tin cup		I missed a four foot putt on the eighteen for an 82, that's how...
simms		It ain't like playing some muni track in Brownsville, is it?
molly		Does, `integrity, tradition, and honor' include kicking a man when he's down?
simms		Oh, Mol', this is just guy stuff, bar talk, part of the game -- no offense, right, Cup?
molly		 This man still has a lot of good golf shots in his system --
tin cup		 Molly, it's okay, go away... I don't need any attention right
100.		now...
molly		David, I'll bet you a hundred dollars right now that Roy here can hit a ball --  -- from right here to... through that door to the patio...
tin cup		Molly, please...
molly		 And give me a vodka tonic with a twist --
simms		Molly, really, this isn't... dignified...
molly		Roy?
tin cup		I wanta go back to Texas...
molly		What about the river, the piranha, the immortality? All that bullshit? You gonna drag your ass home with an 83?  In fact, two hundred says he can hit it through that door, over the patio, into the river, and make that pelican fly off that post.
101.		SIMMS This is ridiculous...
romeo		You got that shot, Pods, hood the seven, turn it over, start it low, right to left...
molly		I'm not leaving till one of you men starts acting in a manly fashion.
simms		Let's just get this over with. One ball, one swing, one gull.
molly		Roy?
romeo		You the man.
tin cup		One swing?   Four to one odds.
simms		I'll make it ten to one. Stick it up your ass. I'm leading the Open.
molly		Now we're talking! Manly men!
102.		hundred yards of water, and a lonely pelican sitting out there in a 15 mile an hour breeze, south by southwest...  He'll probably try to shut down a four iron -- no, he's selected his trusty seven iron...
tin cup		Kind of a thin lie...
simms		Beats all that deep rough you were in today...
romeo		Fore in the grill! Fore on the patio! You're the legend, boss...
tin cup		What is this all about?
molly		Shut up and hit the ball.
tin cup		Dollar bills...
romeo		Stiff, baby, stiff!
simms		I'm outta here. You're all nuts.
molly		I musta been blind thinking you were worth a shit, Simmsy!  Drinks on me, boys! Helluva shot, Roy!
tin cup		Actually I thinned it a little or that pelican'd be flying around with a Titleist up his ass...
tin cup		I kinda shanked it, eh?
molly		No, no, no... you were great...
tin cup		Tempo is everything...
molly		Perfection's unobtainable...
tin cup		Mighta rushed it on the downswing...
104.		MOLLY Come over the top a little...
tin cup		Yeah... well, as Walter Hagen once said -- 'Sex and golf are the only two things you can be bad at and still enjoy...'
molly		Let's take a mulligan and tee it up again --
romeo		You guys done yet? This is no time for a marathon...
nantz		The sun is struggling to come out, the course is drying up, and in case you're just joining us, the leaders have just reached the ninth hole because of delayed starting times --  -- David Simms is clinging to a one shot lead over Peter Jacobsen... but the real story is out on sixteen where a driving range pro who shot an opening eighty-three is making a run at perhaps the most legendary round of golf in Open history, Johnny Miller's sixty-three at Oakmont -- Ben Wright is in the tower at
105.		sixteen...
dewey		They said on the radio he was ten under --
everyone		Shhhh!!!
earl		He's shooting the lowest round ever!
clint		And eighteen's a par five. A birdie there, he shoots sixty!
doreen		We gotta go, boys. We gotta get us on a Continental Trailways and find this damn place!
venturi		McAvoy's hit another big drive, but this is not a shot he wants to get aggressive with...
romeo		Two-sixty to carry, Roy. You got to lay up, man. I don't care how good you swinging. You got to lay
107.		up.
venturi		His adrenalin's gotten the better of him, Jim. If he lays up he takes bogey out of play.
summerall		Well, every golf fan in America is pulling for him.
tin cup		Nope.
romeo		Carry, honey!    Please!   Carry!
lake		 The ball plunks in the water inches short of dry land. The GALLERY GROANS.
tin cup		What the hell. You ride 'er till she bucks you or you don't ride at all. I can save par from here.
romeo		Up an' down...
tin cup		Well, it wasn't from clean living...
tin cup		Yeah. And I'll go for it tomorrow and I'll go for it Sunday, cuz I didn't come here to play for no second.
venturi		It's the same shot he knocked in the water yesterday. And the thing for him to do right now is to tune out the gallery, rein in his emotions, and forget what he said in yesterday's interview. He has to lay up.
tin cup		Gimme the three wood.
romeo		There's wind up there.
tin cup		I know.
nantz		Well, he hasn't shown an ounce of fear all day.
venturi		This isn't courage, Jim. This is inexperience, pure and simple.
110.		Tin Cup steps up to his shot.
tin cup		This is for Venturi, up there in the booth, thinking I should lay up...  Dollar bills...
tin cup		That's a long fucking ways.  Gimme another ball.
romeo		Roy...
tin cup		What?
romeo		It's a water hazard. You go up there and take a drop. Try to save par like you did yesterday.
tin cup		You're right.    What the hell was I thinking?
111.		TIN CUP I saved par, didn't I?
tin cup		You don't think I can knock it on from there?
tin cup		So am I! Look at me. I'm playing for...  ... Rio Grande Short-Haul Trucking, Brink and Brown Sanitation, First State Bank of Salome, Wally's Smokehouse... You think a guy like me bothers to think about the percentages? --
molly		I've got some money from the pelican bet -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- get ready for the final round.
tin cup		Nothing to celebrate yet. Plus these are my people. I'm a waffle house guy -- gotta stay in touch with that...
romeo		Plus he needs his carbohydrates --
112.		TIN CUP If the boys from Salome was in town -- this is where they'd be...
clint		The legend!
earl		God damn, we been driving for two days to help you in the last round --
jose		Saw the Winnebago outside -- we're starving...
dewey		Sixty-two!    Sixty-two!
tin cup		We're home now!
romeo		You boys a sight for sore eyes. We so damn sick of guys in blazers and slacks that don't wrinkle. It ain't natural 'round here...
doreen		Congratulations, Roy -- we're with you all the way.
tin cup		Doreen, meet Dr. Griswold... er, Molly... my shrink --
molly		Ex-shrink.  We're sleeping together now so I can't be his therapist.
doreen		I knew it.
molly		Knew what?
doreen		Nothing, dear. Good luck.  Say, I have a little extra cash -- why don't we go somewhere fancy and celebrate -- y'know, kinda get
113.		ready for the final round?
dewey		This is the Waffle House, Doreen --
curt		Hell, I been dreaming of waffles for 1800 miles...
earl		They got a waffle house in Odessa just about like this...
jose		Odessa?   It's in Midland, ain't it?...
clint		No, it's in Odessa.
tin cup		It just don't get much better than this...
romeo		You're looking particularly lovely this evening... the coif is extraordinary.
doreen		Why thank you... Romeo.
114.		MOLLY You nervous about tomorrow?
tin cup		Yeah, I'm nervous. So's everybody else. But I only gotta come and catch Simms. Sixty-seven guys gotta come and get me...
tin cup		It won't always be like this... y'know... with me... surrounded by all these guys... snoring... a stripper ex-girlfriend on the floor... my caddie sleeping next to her... all of us damn near broke... won't always be like this...
molly		Yes it will... yes it will... and it's okay...
molly		Which one of you is the bookie?
dewey		We all are, but Earl's the best.
115.		MOLLY What are the odds that Roy will win?
earl		Vegas has him at ten to one. They're sure he's gonna self-destruct.
molly		Those sound good to me -- I want you to place a bet for me. Five thousand nine hundred dollars on Tin Cup to win.
curt		That's your nestegg.
earl		That's a bad idea, honey -- we love him, but he's gonna fuck- up --
molly		I said put it all on Roy.    Got it?
dewey		We can't let you --
molly		Boys --
molly		Put it all on Tin Cup.
jacobsen		Looking a little tight, Ledge.
tin cup		Musta got too much sleep last night. How you choking?
116.		JACOBSEN Just got one thought in my head. Ten under. That's my number.
tin cup		No one's ever been ten under for the Open, not even Nicklaus.
jacobsen		That's right, Ledge. Not even Nicklaus.
simms		Sorry, Roy, can't believe I didn't see you with all that high-priced endorsement crap you're flaunting.
tin cup		That's always been your problem, Dave. You don't think about winning; you just want to look good.  And it ain't a rain-shortened Quad Cities or a Greater Greensboro you can back into. This is you'n me, pal. This is match-play, and this time you ain't getting no three shots.
starter		With the honor in the final pairing, from Salome, Texas, Mr. Roy McAvoy.
117.		David Simms, his pairing in this the final twosome of the final round of the U.S. Open.
tin cup		Fairways and greens, Dave... and don't forget to wave as I blow by.
simms		You mean blow up? Like you always do?
tin cup		Do me a favor. Bet me a buck I don't put it in the fairway.
romeo		I bet you a hundred.
tin cup		Okay, good.  Puts things back in perspective.
romeo		Which way you going?
simms		Nice double, Roy.
tin cup		Just keep making pars, asshole.
simms		I'll take eighteen of 'em.
tin cup		And I will own you.
molly		Oh no, Tin Cup ran it five feet past.  How did he get the name 'Tin Cup'?
molly		'Clank''s not a good name for a man...
clint		Our boy's in trouble... ya think he's chokin'?
earl		Our boy don't choke. He fucks up but he don't choke...
ben wright		This is disaster for McAvoy. After losing three shots to par in the first four holes, he should have just taken iron off the tee to get the ball in play. Does he have any shot at all, Gary McCord?
120.		McCORD This is definite jail. This is life without parole. His only chance to stage a jail-break is go at the ball left-handed and hope he can somehow snake it back into the fairway, and save par from there.
tin cup		Fifty bucks says I knock it on... with a seven iron.
nantz		That took balls...
simms		 That's just Roy being Roy. Just wait him out, Dave. Just make pars. Let him make the mistakes.
jacobsen		He's making his run.
molly		 So why'd you leave him?
doreen		You ever dated a guy who actually believes in soul mates?
molly		Actually, no.
doreen		He thinks he's a tough guy, but he's a hopeless romantic.
122.		And as the gallery falls silent, she turns to watch Tin Cup.
jacobsen		He's throwing darts back there. We gotta make birdies, Squeaky, or we are playing for second.
tin cup		That's right, Peter. You'n me. That's all there is.
fans		Get in there!    Come on!   Go down!
earl		He's tied for the lead again!    And they're running outta holes!
nantz		So it's come down to the seventy- second hole of this great championship, and the skill and courage of three Texans who have dueled throughout the day for the chance to be crowned Open Champion... Peter Jacobsen is on the fairway at 8 under, McAvoy at the 18th tee is tied at minus 8, and David Simms trails by one...
tin cup		Jacobsen's laying up.  You ain't gonna have that luxury, Dave. Not if you play to win.
124.		149   EXT. TELEVISION TOWER                                       149
nantz		McAvoy's hit a perfect drive, Ken.
venturi		I'm not sure that's good news for McAvoy. With his inexperience, the last thing he needs is an excuse to fool with that water again today.
tin cup		I didn't catch it all.
romeo		Then you got to lay up.
tin cup		So birdie wins it.
tin cup		You or me, Dave?
tin cup		 He's laying up. Birdie to tie, eagle to win, and that gutless wonder's laying up.
romeo		 Par to tie, birdie to win... you lay up too, Roy. You can make birdie laying up.
tin cup		You know something, Romeo? Eagle puts me ten under. No one's ever finished an Open ten under, not even Nicklaus.
romeo		You don't need an eagle. Birdie wins, par ties.  Hit the lay up. Hole a wedge for goddamn eagle.
tin cup		This is everything, ain't it? This is the choice it comes down to. This is our immortality...
romeo		No time to be thinkin' 'immortality,' Cup... time to be thinkin' 7 iron.
doreen		Oh no. This is what always happens. He's going for it.
molly		Go for it!
doreen		No! He just needs par to tie! Tell him to lay up! He listens to you!
molly		Go for it, Roy! Knock it on!
doreen		This is why we split up -- he always went for it...
molly		My problem is I've never been with
126.		a man who went for it...
doreen		Well, honey, he's your guy.
nantz		Good Lord, he's going for the green.
venturi		This could be tragic.
tin cup		One swing, Roy. One good swing. Dollar bills...
tin cup		We're home...
tin cup		... little gust there, Romes...
molly		You can still make par from up there --
romeo		She's right, Pods, a drop and a stroke, up and down par -- we'll win it in sudden death.
tin cup		I nutted that thing. Little gust from the gods cost me...
romeo		Helluva move you put on that sucker, now let's get up there, take the drop, and make our par, tie Peter...
tin cup		I can make this shot.
romeo		Not now.
tin cup		Now.
tin cup		I'm playing it from here.
molly		Take your drop and make your par!
128.		drop from his original lie.
venturi		I don't believe this. He just took himself out of the tournament with that drop. He could have walked up to the hazard line, saved par with a wedge and forced a playoff with Jacobsen. Now he needs a miracle shot.
tin cup		Gimme another ball.
molly		I can't believe he's doing this.
doreen		 I can, honey...
molly		He can blow the whole tournament!
doreen		It's a miracle he lasted this long...
129.		CUT TO:
clint		He done blew a gasket, boys...
earl		The wheels is definitely falling off now...
jose		It was a miracle while it lasted...
regulars' pov		 Tin Cup swings a third time.  CUT TO:
romeo		This is your last ball, man. If this gets wet, you disqualified.
tin cup		I can make it across.
venturi		This is the most painful thing I've ever watched.
molly		You're right, Roy, what the hell! Let 'er rip!
doreen		You two are made for each other.
tin cup		Dollar bills...
simms		I gotta hand it to you, Roy.   When you go down, you go down in flames.
tin cup		Someday you can tell your grandchildren you finished second in the U.S. Open...  -- just don't tell 'em how.
tin cup		Good job, Tubbsy... you won it.
tin cup		My God... I just gave away the Open...
132.		McCORD Ledge, I know it's tough to talk right now, but --
tin cup		It's not difficult to talk... it's difficult to explain... I coulda laid up and still won. I made a twelve on the last hole of the U.S. Open. You know how much money that cost me?
tin cup		I gotta get outta here.
tin cup		Molly, I'm an idiot. I gave away the Open. The one time in my life I know the play is to hit the lay up -- my whole life and future and career on the line, and I still can't make myself do it. I am a twisted human being and a cautionary tale. And I guess I'm a fool?
molly		Yes.   A magnificent fool...
tin cup		Some people don't like West Texas but I think it's the most beautiful place on earth...
molly		It has its charms...  Y'know, by finishing in the top 15 at the Open you qualified to be in it next year --
tin cup		Damn, I didn't know that...
molly		I'm thinking with your game you should go back to the Qualifying School, try to get out on tour...
tin cup		Then I wouldn't see you...
molly		Actually, I picked up a whole bunch of new clients at the Open. Lotta guys on the tour said if I could do that much for you, imagine what I could do for them...
tin cup		There's a lotta head cases out there, you could make a bundle...
molly		And sleep in the Winnebago at night...
134.		Silence.
tin cup		Y'know... a man goes through what I've gone through, he's supposed to learn something.  I'm trying to figure out what I learned. Did I learn anything?
molly		You're learning some discipline and self-control...
tin cup		And that there's a time in life to play it safe...
molly		That's great,   Roy... and I'm learning how to listen   to the tuning fork, throw caution   to the wind, and take crazy risks I   never thought were possible...
tin cup		C'mon, Molly, when did you ever take a crazy risk?
molly		I fell for you...
****Dialogues from script :Tin_Men.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
1.		SCREEN is BLACK.      In white letters we read: BALTIMORE 1963. FADE IN: 1   EXT. CADILLAC DEALERSHIP - DAY                                   1 BILL BABOWSKY  Who?
salesman		What? BB Who's the beauty? SALESMAN The car. BB I thought maybe you saw some chick walking by. I lost my concentration. Why do they call cars 'she'? They never say 'he'... always 'she.' The Salesman shrugs his shoulders.      BB walks around the Cadillac. BB Very nice... very nice.
2.		3   CONTINUED:                                              3 Peeking around the bannister from the second floor is ERNEST TILLEY, also in his 30's, handsome in a boyish way. TILLEY Who's sick? NORA Who do ya think I'm screaming at? How many of you are there up there? There's only you, and you're a sick human being. TILLEY  Where's my white on white shirt? The nice one, you know. NORA It's like yelling through a wall to you. I'm carrying on about what a disgusting human being you are, and all you want to know is where your white on white shirt is. TILLEY Yes, the one with the permanent stays. CUT TO:
3.		4   CONTINUED:                                               4 SALESMAN I'm just trying to get an idea how much you're willing to pay. BB Four dollars... I want to pay four dollars a month. SALESMAN That's not an honest answer. BB What do ya want to hear? That I'd love to pay three hundred and fifty a month... is that what you want to hear? Tell me how much you want me to pay and I'll tell you how much I'll pay, but don't do a hustle on me... I don't like that. How much do I want to pay? I'd like to pay nothing! CUT TO:
4.		6   CONTINUED:                                              6 SALESMAN If you even have the smallest problem, call me personally and I'll just shoot you straight into the service department. BB And I get a loaner if the car's got to stay? SALESMAN As we discussed, you get a car if the car has to be kept overnight. BB I get a loaner? The Salesman nods. CUT TO:
5.		9    INT. TILLEY'S CAR - DAY                                      9 Tilley is doing neck exercises, rolling his head from left to right as he drives. He sees a red light ahead and starts to slow down, continuing to roll his head.
6.		14   CONTINUED                                                      14 BB There's a red light, I'm making a space for myself... that's what I'm doing, in order to get into the street... that's something ya do! TILLEY You came out of nowhere... you bolted out of no place... bolted out of nowhere. BB Bolted! At six miles an hour I'm bolting into the street! You schmuck! You schmuck! He moves toward Tilley. TILLEY Back away from me, do ya hear me? Back away from me. BB Back away? You want me to back away? I'll back away. He turns to walk away from Tilley, walks and then turns back and kicks in the headlight of Tilley's car. TILLEY You're a fucking lunatic! He goes for BB, jumps him and they both fall on to the trunk of BB's car. People have started to gather and immediately jump in and pull BB and Tilley apart.
bb		You're a madman! Smashes into me, attacks me... the man is crazy! People continue to pull them apart. MAN #1 Come on now, calm down, calm down. He holds BB's arms. Another MAN grabs for Tilley and tries to pull him off BB. MAN #2 Take it easy... take it easy... 
7.		14   CONTINUED:    Get  this guy! Will ya get this guy?   Backs in front of me, and then  kicks my headlight in... and  I'm crazy. You lunatic! Tilley makes another jump for BB.    Again, people try pulling them apart. BB You're going to prison. Death! Death! They're going to give you death!
8.		15   CONTINUED:                                              15 GIL, who is pouring half a pound of sugar into his coffee, looks up. GIL Ben Cartwright had a colored guy stay overnight at the Ponderosa? MOUSE, who is picking his teeth with a matchbook, squints at Sam with an investigative look. MOUSE Did he know this guy personally? SAM No... he was just passing through, asked if he could stay over, and Ben Cartwright said 'sure thing.' It doesn't make any sense... he invites a strange colored guy in... invited him in to stay. Is that crazy or what? If a colored guy came to my door and said 'can I stay the night,' I'd tell him 'get the fuck out of here'! It's nothing personal, mind you. MOUSE You're not a bigot, is that what you're telling us? SAM Me?   No, I'm not a bigot. GIL If you're not, how come you're making such a big thing out of it?
sam		It's the fact the Ben Cartwright's on the Ponderosa... he's in the middle of nowhere. It's not like he's living on Reisterstown Road with houses all around... we're talking about the West here. It's the idea that a strange guy comes to the door in the middle of the West. It doesn't make sense, that's all I'm saying. MOUSE Come on... you're a bigot, that's what you are. 
9.		15   CONTINUED:                                                15 SAM Listen, I'll sell tin to anybody ... I don't care who he is. A mark's a mark, whether he's Chinese, Indian or from Mars... I'm thoroughly integrated. Makes no difference to me... I just wouldn't have one of those guys sleep in my house. CUT TO:
sam		I just don't believe that 'Bonanza' is an accurate description of the West. I say no more. Tilley slips into the booth next to Sam.    He indicates for Sam to give him more room. TILLEY Come on, give me a couple of more inches. SAM You want me to take my plate... I'll eat in the parking lot. 
10.		17   CONTINUED:                                              17 TILLEY Come on, Sam, I'm having a terrible morning. You're not going to believe this, some guy just crashed into me... right in the middle of the street... then he attacks me. One of the loonies. SAM  Did ya live? MOUSE Did you get his name?
tilley		Yeah, I got his name. The police came... God, I can't believe it... the guy's an idiot. He pulls a piece of paper from his pocket. TILLEY Yeah, here it is... some Polish name... Babowski... Bill Babowski ... fucking son of a bitch. GIL I know the guy... they call him BB. TILLEY You know the son of a bitch? GIL Yeah, he works with Bagel. TILLEY He sells aluminum siding? I don't believe it... of all the people that could run into me, it has to be a fucking tin man. How come I don't know him? GIL You musta seen him. He hangs out with Carly Benelli, Cheese ... you know, that group. TILLEY I don't know the guy. 
11.		17   CONTINUED:   
12.		17   CONTINUED:                                                   17 Florence starts to walk away. FLORENCE You're always just asking. Gil still talking about BB. GIL I'm telling you, you just can't believe how well this guy does the Marengay. MOUSE I can't wait to see it.
tilley		I'll  tell you one thing,    when I get a  hold of this guy,    I'll break  both his legs and    then he won't  dance the Marengay    too good. CUT TO:
13.		19   CONTINUED:                                               19 GIRL #1  Yes... well, we do aluminum siding which improves the appearance of your house, and improves the insulation... CAMERA MOVES TO ANOTHER GIRL. GIRL #2 ... Which improves the appearance of your house, and improves the insulation...
14.		19   CONTINUED:                                                    19 MOE That's right, the guy picks    it up. He gets a phone call... it's    the doctor on the line. Doctor     says 'I've got some bad news and    some worse news.' BB join the tin men to listen to Moe's joke. MOE Guy    says 'Well, let me hear the bad    news first.' 'The bad news is,    you've got twenty-four hours to    live.' The guy says 'What's the    worse news?' Doctor says 'I    forgot to call you yesterday.' They all laugh. LOONEY, a thin guy who twitches and blinks a lot, stands up. LOONEY It's good... I like it. CHEESE I never heard bad news and worse news... smart joke. LOONEY Yeah... I like it. CARLY It's dumb, but good. BB, who is not laughing, stands behind Cheese who throws 50 cents into the card game.
cheese		Up it fifty cents. LOONEY I call... I call. I'm in on this one... I call. MOE We get it, you're calling. CARLY I'm not sure. BB Stay with him. CARLY I don't know. 
15.		19   CONTINUED:   
16.		19   CONTINUED:                                                19 LOONEY Six hundred bucks? I'd get rid of the car. That much damage it won't be any good. You may have dented the frame. BB I didn't dent the frame. LOONEY When you hit the frame, the car doesn't ride right. BB He didn't hit the frame! I'll tell you this, I'm gonna get the son of a bitch. If he would have apologized or something, but this guy gets out, tries to push me around. CHEESE You're kidding me? BB Yeah... the guy's totally off the wall. He takes a sip of his coffee. BB I'm gonna get him... just for the fun of it. CUT TO:
17.		21   CONTINUED:                                              21 MOE Now, let me see... we gotta be at the Hickey house at four.  It's about three-twenty now... we've got some time on our hands. You want to get some coffee? BB No, I'm up to here with the coffee. He indicates his throat.
moe		They got any good pool halls around here? BB I don't know.  Yeah. CUT TO:
18.		23   CONTINUED:                                              23 BB I think this  is a better position... the light is  hitting it, which is accentuating  the effect we're going for.   It's very good... very good. MOE  This shows the flaws in the structure... CUT TO:
19.		24   CONTINUED:                                              24 MOE Oh, I hope we're not disturbing you, ma'am. We're with Life Magazine... we'll be out of here in just a minute. BB 
20.		24   CONTINUED:   
21.		24   CONTINUED:    What time would your husband be home, 'cos he'd have to go over the figures with the salesman... that's if there's a salesman available this evening. HOUSEWIFE He'll be home at seven. BB We might be able to work it. HOUSEWIFE That would be wonderful. CUT TO:
22.		25   INT. WOODEN FRAMED HOUSE - NIGHT                            25 BB and Moe are sitting on a sofa sipping coffee, looking as if they were members of the family. The Housewife and her HUSBAND are sitting across the dining room table from Carly. Carly is going  through papers, adding up figures. CARLY Okay... we've got a total of thirty-seven hundred dollars. HUSBAND Thirty-seven hundred dollars? HOUSEWIFE Honey, we're gonna be in Life Magazine.
24.		30   CONTINUED:                                               30 HUSBAND #2 No... not this time. TILLEY Well, as I said, you can always reach me... you've got my card, and when the time comes, let's talk. The Husband and wife stand to show Tilley to the door. TILLEY Hey, give my best to your little son... wonderful kid there. What's his name again, Ronnie?
sam		The amount of time you spent there, I thought you were ready to send for me to close it up. TILLEY Damn!    I thought I had 'em. Tilley STARTS the CAR and pulls out. CUT TO:
25.		32   CONTINUED:                                              32 PIANIST 'Tall and tan and young and lovely, the girl from Ipanema goes walking, and when she passes each one she passes goes... "Ah!"' The last word of the verse -- "Ah" -- has great emphasis put on it and is lengthened considerably. The people sitting around the piano all join the pianist and say "Ah" in unison. CAMERA MOVES OVER TO a table where Mouse, Sam, Tilley, Gil and a few other tin men set. WING, the head of Gibraltar Aluminum, a tall, strong, imposing figure, holds court. The table is filled with papers, folders, etc., as if Wing's office desk had been trans- ported to the bar. He's reviewing a paper from a job that Mouse has done. WING Forty-six hundred dollars. This looks like a sound deal. They own their own house... we won't have any problem getting the financing for them. Real good, Mouse. He picks up his check book ledger and writes out a check. WING 
26.		32   CONTINUED:                                                  32 TILLEY No problem... just in a little slump here. WING Don't try to go walking on me. TILLEY What do you mean, walking? You think I'm gonna work somewhere else... you've been very good to me... very honorable. SAM He's always said that about you, Wing. Always said that about you... he has. WING I'll give you hundred and fifty. TILLEY Wing, I need a bit more than that... I got expenses. WING What's wrong with your wife?   She doesn't work? TILLEY Yeah, but how much is she gonna make working at the Social Security office? Wing writes out a check and gives it to Tilley.
tilley		Come on, Wing, can't you do better than this... a man in my position in terms of this firm... I dunno... WING All right, I'll give you two hundred. Wing changes amount of check and hands it to Tilley. MOUSE 
27.		32   CONTINUED:    Did she hear me say scotch straight up? WING My sources tell me this Home Improvement Commission is for real... it's no jackpot. These guys are going to be a real pain in the ass, so any of the scams that you guys are pulling, they get wind of it, they take your license and it's goodbye to this business. MOUSE They take away your license? They take away your livelihood? What kind of people are these? SAM They have no respect for the working man. TILLEY Which scams are they talking about? They got a list?
wing		Any irregularities, you know, selling a house on the pretense that it's a model house and every job sold in the area they get a kickback... the Life Magazine hustle... you guys know all the bullshit numbers we can run. SAM Jesus! What a pain in the ass. Do you think this commission's gonna stick around or is it gone with the wind? 
28.		32   CONTINUED:                                                32 TILLEY They take your license? CUT TO:
29.		34   CONTINUED:                                              35 BB I'll be back, Moe.    I'm gonna even the score. He gets out of the car, quickly walks over to Tilley's Cadillac, and with a swift kick, he kicks the headlight that isn't already broken. CUT TO:
30.		35   CONTINUED:                                              35 TILLEY I don't know the guy! GIL I'll never forget his Marengay. TILLEY I'll tell you something, if Mr. Marengay wants to play... we'll play. CUT TO:
31.		37   CONTINUED:                                              37 TILLEY What're you doing up so late? NORA We're off tomorrow. Beat. TILLEY I think this place may be a little too large for us. NORA What are you talking about... this match box?
tilley		It's got a lot of overhead to it. What do you do... spend your time in the bedroom and the kitchen, that's all. So why do you need a living room and a dining room. He walks over to the back door and looks out. TILLEY Why do ya need a back yard? NORA You're not selling anything? TILLEY I'm in a slump. NORA It happens.
tilley		Last year I'm number three top seller... year before, right up there. I  can't get my momentum going this year. NORA Well, you will. You always do. TILLEY 
32.		37   CONTINUED:    I'm gonna take a bath -- my neck's been tight since this morning. NORA I'll turn out the lights. Nora gets up and puts the cups in the sink -- gives a big sigh. CUT TO:
33.		38   CONTINUED:                                             38 TILLEY I don't understand a picnic... we just go some place... we put a thing on the ground, and we eat. NORA Yes... it's nice to do that. TILLEY Why? I don't get it. It's better sitting at home and watching TV. NORA I think there's something nice about a picnic... it's fun. TILLEY What's fun about it? Ants get into the food... there's bees. I don't get it. We have to drive, it takes maybe an hour to get there, then you sit in grass and eat. Why is that fun? NORA I just thought it might be nice to do something together, that's all... thought it might be fun. TILLEY It doesn't sound like fun to me... you take the stuff you've got here in the house, you take it someplace to eat it. It's just as much fun eating in front of the TV, and we do that together, don't we? No ants and no bees... much more comfortable. NORA It's not the same thing. TILLEY Scrub my back, will ya, Nora. Nora picks up the back brush, puts soap on it and starts scrubbing Tilley's back. 
34.		38   CONTINUED:    Don't get me wrong, I'm willing to do anything with you. I'm just a little stymied by a picnic. If you want to go, send me a postcard. Nora drops the brush in the tub and walks out of the bathroom. TILLEY What did I say?
35.		40   CONTINUED:                                             40 TILLEY I'll show the son of a bitch. He gets out of the car, crosses to BB's Cadillac, and smashes in the windshield and all of the windows of the car. TILLEY  Quick, Tilley... let's get out of here. Tilley runs back to his car and drives away. CUT TO:
another angle		We see BAGEL. He's a little guy with a black Fedora and baggy pants held up with suspenders. BB stands with him. BAGEL This whole section has been very fertile for us. CUT TO: 
36.		41   CONTINUED:                                              41 ANOTHER ANGLE Moe, Looney and Carly are talking to STANLEY FRANKS, a young guy in his early 20's. He is dressed in the "Ivy League" look of the times. MOE  What's the best way to qualify a mark?
stanley		What? MOE How do you know if you can get the upper hand? How do you know if you're dealing with a guy who's in an inferior position to you, or superior position? How do you know? Moe puts Stanley on the defensive. STANLEY You just have to talk and feel your way. 
37.		41   CONTINUED:    Me and Stanley. It's like a first date. CUT TO:
38.		42   EXT. SUPERIOR ALUMINUM SIDING BUILDING - DAY                     42 BB and Moe approach BB's Cadillac. He sees that all the windows have been smashed in. Moe looks to BB. Looney walks up from behind. LOONEY What? You got a special bargain when you bought this car? They come cheaper without windows? BB reaches into the car and picks up a handful of broken glass. He tosses it up and down in his hands. BB This guy's looking to play tit for tat. That's not my game. I'm gonna play hardball. BB throws the glass down on the ground. STANLEY  What's going on? Looney just nods for them to go, and they start to walk over to Looney's Cadillac. BB I'm gonna find    out everything about this son    of a bitch, and then I'm gonna    find the one thing that cuts him    to the quick. MOE Let's go inside... make some calls.
39.		43   CONTINUED:                                              43 MOUSE Well, then, believe it. There's no sense not to believe it, because you did it... so believe it. That's twenty more... you owe me sixty. TILLEY You think I can't add? He goes to rack to re-set. Mouse     goes over and puts a nickel in the juke box. A RECORD     slips into position, and Harry Belafonte's "Banana Boat    Song" begins. Mouse, in unison with the record, sings,    and is totally caught up in the song.
mouse		'Dayo!... da, da, da, da, day. Daylight come and he wanna go home...' He sings very loudly, especially on the chorus. GIL  'Daylight come and he wanna go home...'
40.		45   INT. POOL HALL                                                45 He approaches Tilley who's just finished racking the balls. SAM Tilley. He nods for Tilley to go over to him. They start to walk together through the darkened areas of the Pool Hall. SAM Found this on your desk while I was going over some papers. He hands the letter to Tilley.
tilley		From the IRS. I never even remember seeing it. I must have left it with my other bills. I wonder what it is? SAM Maybe it's a refund check. Tilley opens the envelope and looks at the document. TILLEY Hum... says here that they haven't received my 1962 taxes. They seem to be saying that they didn't get my check for four thousand dollars. SAM What? It must be a clerical error. TILLEY I can't believe they spend all that time and energy to write to me... to single me out. SAM What are you talking about?   You didn't pay your taxes? TILLEY I probably forgot... people forget their taxes all the time... just slipped my mind... I got so many things on my mind. 
41.		45   CONTINUED:                                              45 TILLEY  I figured they'd give me a little leeway. I'm going to pay them... I know I've got a debt... I just need a little leeway. SAM You can't mess around with the government. Why don't you go to H & R Block, they'll take care of your taxes for you. TILLEY You think I'm gonna let some schmuck know all my business... have some guy pull me over the coals for spending on this and that. I need some privacy. SAM Taxes is serious stuff, Tilley. TILLEY I can just see that schmuck in that little tax shop telling people my business... how much I make... how much I spend... no way! SAM All I can say, is you better get a lawyer or somebody to look into this, 'cos the IRS, they don't fuck around. TILLEY Just what I need in my life right now... I'm in a slump and I've got the IRS on me. Like when something goes wrong, it's like... He throws his arms up in the air in exasperation. CUT TO:
42.		46   EXT. NORA AND TILLEY'S HOUSE - DAY                                46 We see Nora leaving her house,  walking down the    steps and getting into her car. She   STARTS the ENGINE    and pulls away.  CAMERA HOLDS for  a moment, and then    INTO FRAME comes Moe's car with BB  sitting shotgun.     They follow Nora. CUT TO:
43.		47   CONTINUED:                                              47 NORA You know what would be a lot more healthy and satisfying is to get yourself a chicken... just pop it in the oven for a couple of hours with a little bit of seasoning on it. Makes a good meal, and you can make sandwiches with the leftovers. BB But then you have to sit and watch it cook. Something seems sad about a man sitting alone in a house and watching a chicken cook.
44.		50   CONTINUED:                                              50 MAN Thank you, Mr. Tilley. I can't believe it... this is the most generous thing anyone's ever done ... Swell! Like a gift from heaven. WIFE The Lord has certainly blessed us this evening. TILLEY Well, what can I say... I'm a modest person... I just do what I can to help.
man		Thanks again. He opens the door for Tilley and Tilley walks out. CUT TO:
sam		You're kidding? TILLEY Take a look at this, Sam. Tilley shows him the written contract. Written across the front of the contract in big, bold, black letters are the words: "THIS JOB IS FREE." Sam looks at Tilley. SAM Are you fucking crazy? You just gave them forty-two hundred dollars in aluminum siding free?! 
45.		51   CONTINUED:                                                51 TILLEY  This is the best scam I've ever thought of in my whole life. He kisses his hands with wild smacking sounds.     He's ecstatic. TILLEY It's in my blood... I'm brilliant ... I'm fucking brilliant... this is such a brilliant scam... I'm beside myself. SAM What are you talking about? TILLEY Here it is... you go back in the house and this is what you say... CUT TO:
46.		52   CONTINUED:                                              52 SAM Let me tell you something, when I go and see his boss and show him this contract, he's out of this business... he'll lose his home ... his wife and kids will be thrown out onto the street. He'll probably spend some time in an institution, so God knows what will happen to his wife and kids. Anyway, it's not your problem. MAN Why do they have to be thrown out onto the street?
sam		You don't expect his boss to pick up the forty-two hundred job, do ya? MAN Hmm. SAM Yeah, it's a bad state of affairs.  Let me ask you something, sir. MAN Yes? SAM You don't think there's some way you could work with me to try and resolve this, do you?
man		How so? SAM Let's look at it this way, what if I can sell you this job at a wholesale price... kind of lessens the burden. The big boss won't get so angry, and maybe won't throw the guy's wife and kids out... at least they'll have a roof over their heads. MAN What kind of wholesale price are we talking about? 
47.		52   CONTINUED:    No hurry, ma'am. The Man turns to sit down, and as he does so, Sam throws a $5 bill on the ground. SAM What you doing throwing your money around? He bends to pick up the $5 note. MAN What's that? SAM I found a five-dollar bill, here by the side of the chair. CUT TO: 53   INT. CORRAL CLUB - NIGHT                                53
48.		53   CONTINUED:                                              53 Stanley laughs and looks at Carly. STANLEY You're kidding? CARLY Yeah... he'd always put his hand over the break when he was measuring. Nobody looks at a yardstick to see how long it is. LOONEY  I never did that... I never did that... I was never very good in arts and crafts. I  could never make the ruler come out right. The song ends.
49.		53   CONTINUED:    Shoe had some customers that he thought was fragile on coming for the buy. He'd say to the guy 'here let me show you how bad a shape your house is in,' and he'd rip off a piece of wood, maybe fifteen feet wide. The guy's house looks like shit so it makes it hard for him to back out of the deal when half the side of his house is missing. The Shoe's a fucking wonder. CUT TO:
tilley		Gil keeps saying it... I've never seen him.  Sometimes I'm brilliant... I'm fucking brilliant... I can't believe it. CUT TO:
50.		55   INT. CORRAL CLUB - ANGLE ON MOE AND BB - NIGHT               55 They're looking at the girls, sizing them up. BB  How long you been married now? What is it? Twelve... twelve years? MOE Sixteen. BB Holy God! Sixteen years? What do you think? Is it worth it?
moe		Yeah. BB Why do you think? MOE It's hard to answer. 
51.		55   CONTINUED:                                              55 ANGLE ON DOOR Tilley and Sam come through the door and walk over to the bar. TILLEY  Scotch straight up and a rum and Coke for me. He looks around the room at the women. TILLEY Looks like there's good action here tonight. SAM What do you expect, it's half price night for divorced women. The place is hopping.
52.		55   CONTINUED:    So much for relationships.
53.		55   CONTINUED:    Sam, you're too much. SAM I went to get myself a salad and I started to see all these vegetables, you know how they have all those salads laid out so that when it's time to get to the main course you won't eat too much... that scam to get you filled up so you don't eat too much chicken and beef and all that other stuff.
tilley		Yeah, yeah... I get the point. So? SAM So I see celery, I see the lettuce, tomatoes, cauliflower... and I think, all these things come out of the ground... they just grow out of the ground. They had corn -- out of the ground... radish -- out of the ground. You say to yourself, how can all these things come out of the ground? You know what I'm talking about? All these things are out of the ground. TILLEY  Yeah.
sam		I mean, how can that be? It just happened that way? And I'm not even getting into the fruits... I'm just dealing with vegetables right now. With all those things coming out of the earth, there must be a God. TILLEY 
54.		55   CONTINUED:    I don't believe it. See the guy over there? He looks in the direction of BB. TILLEY That's the son of a bitch who crsahed into my car. Sam looks over to BB.
64.		74   CONTINUED:                                              74 We PASS BY THREE GIRLS on telephones -- they are solicit- ing jobs for the salesmen. CAMERA GOES FROM one Girl TO the other. GIRL #1 Hello, this is Gibraltar Aluminum Siding Company, we're taking a survey... GIRL #2 ... Would you be interested in our field representative giving you a home demonstration? GIRL #3 ... Home demonstration. We will have some factory representatives in your area today as it happens. A voice calls out. VOICE 
65.		74   CONTINUED:     Look, we can be scientific from now to doomsday, but we gotta be gutsy and go for the big one. Tilley goes through the door into Wing's office.
66.		75   CONTINUED:                                              75 WING This Mr. Hudson's some guy. He's got three outstanding shoplifting charges, failure to pay child support from a previous marriage ... guy's overdue on his mortgage, overdue on his car loan, and he was fired from his last job for misappropriation of funds. TILLEY What's wrong with this world? There are sick people out there! Thievin' son of a bitch like that takes up my time... cuts into the amount of hours I have available to deal with other people interested in my wares! There's no fucking sympathy for the working man in this country. WING They don't make our job easy, Tilley. TILLEY  Wing, it was such a beautiful thing... you shoulda seen how I worked. Like a magician... 'this job is free'! It was my best... my best! There's no fucking justice in this world... there ain't no justice. Tilley goes to pick up his coffee off the desk.
wing		Did you see the paper? TILLEY What section? WING Take a look at this. He hands the newspaper to Tilley. TILLEY 
67.		75   CONTINUED:                                                 75 WING Just cool down the scams, okay, Tilley? Tilley shrugs his shoulders. CUT TO:
68.		76   CONTINUED:                                              76 MASTERS  The point being that you had no intention of giving away the storm windows.
69.		77   CONTINUED:                                              77 BB I dunno... looks like any tin man gets in that hot seat, then he's had it. MOE Then they can take your license forever... it don't seem fair. They walk by a Volkswagen "beetle" car that's parked in front of BB's Cadillac. BB stops and looks at it. BB Boy, I tell ya, I bet you could sell a ton of these things.
moe		That?   Too silly-looking. BB looks at the car for a few more seconds, then goes to get into his car. BB Ever see a dealership? MOE No. BB Interesting. They get in the car and drive off. CUT TO:
70.		79   CONTINUED:                                             79 TILLEY I keep racking my brain. I gotta find a way to really get even with this guy. It isn't enough to wreck his car... even breaking into his house and messing it up or something, that don't have enough impact. I mean, the man poked my wife! I gotta come up with something ingenious... something ingenious. Sam sees a WAITER approaching and indicates to Tilley to get off the subject. Waiter arrives at their table.
sam		 Meatloaf. TILLEY No, I think I'll have some fish. No, no... fish doesn't fill you up. Meatloaf. He closes the menu. WAITER So, it's meatloaf?
71.		79   CONTINUED:    I'm thinking one. Whose one?
sam		Mr. Motor. TILLEY Then that's it, I'm going with one. SAM Tilley, this is insane. You're picking horses because you think you're clairvoyant or something. TILLEY Sam, I'm  not doing too well by checking  the stats, so why not. I put my  hand to my forehead, I see a one  -- Mr. Motor in the second...  twenty bucks. They both look toward the track, the horses race to the finish line. Number nine streaks across the finish line.
sam		Hallihan's Daughter. TILLEY 
72.		79   CONTINUED:                                                79 SAM You're not exactly talking about a long shot. Mr. Motor, for instance, is coming off at 50 to 1. Tilley taps his forehead, with his eyes closed. TILLEY Third race, I see a six... I see a three. I don't think the verdict's in on that one yet. Tilley stands up and is going through his money and race tickets.
tilley		Wing paid a hundred on number five, he loses, I got hundred and forty... next race I'll lay down the bet. 
73.		79   CONTINUED:                                                   79 Tilley heads towards the betting booths.    Wing enters near the booths, Tilley yells to him. TILLEY Hey, Wing, we're sitting just off the left of the entrance. I'm gonna lay down your bet right now. See you in a minute. You lost the first race, in case you don't know. CUT TO:
74.		81   CONTINUED:                                              81 BB Well, they move your stuff around and it's not where it used to be... I'm not used to that. MOE You mean all this time you've never lived with a girl? BB What?! Did we just meet? How long we been partners? No, I've never lived with a girl! MOE Boy, oh boy! Did you wake up on the wrong side of the bed today? BB Yes, I did. I came in  last night, she was sleeping on my side of the bed. In my life I  never got out of bed on the left side... in my life, never from the left.  I got close once up in the Catskills. I met this  girl, Dorian. For a week we  were together, but it wasn't the same because she always went to her room to change and do all that stuff. She didn't  have things in my room.
75.		82   CONTINUED:                                                 82 ANGLE ON NELLIE Nora's friend. She looks up from the typewriter and sees BB. In his thick overcoat, huddled up, he seems a little lost, and it's obvious that he's looking for someone. NELLIE  Yeah. CUT TO:
76.		83   CONTINUED:                                              83 NORA  Really. How so? BB There's things that are bothering me. NORA Like what? BB You know... things.
nora		Things? BB You know, like things that come up... stuff... like... you know, annoyances. NORA Annoyances? BB Hard to explain... very hard. NORA Well, try. BB As an example... I came home last night, I get undressed, and I realize you're sleeping on my side of the bed. I've always slept on that side... it's something I've always done. NORA Then why didn't you just nudge me a bit and tell me to go and sleep on the other side? BB I didn't want to wake you up... I thought you might think it was kind of stupid or something. NORA Well, that's easily changed. 
77.		83   CONTINUED:    Listen, I'm going over to Pimlico... catch the seventh race... wanna come?
nora		I can't get away from work. BB I know. He goes to walk away, then turns back and gives her a quick kiss. He turns and walks away. Nora watches him as he walks by the rows and rows of secretaries and clerks. CUT TO:
78.		84   CONTINUED:                                             84 TILLEY  We're taking a thirty-to-one shot... number eight... come on number eight... 'Streamers...' come on, you sucker! CUT TO:
79.		89   CONTINUED:                                              89 Wing smiles. WING  I've got myself a winner. Tilley turns to look at Wing. Sam turns towards Tilley looking concerned. We see the totals flashed on the board indicating that the winning horse pays $16.30. CUT TO:
bb		 Way to go... Southern Belle. Moe tears up his ticket. BB Should have bet with me, Moe. CUT TO:
wing		Yeah... Southern Belle. You oughta know, you bet her for me. TILLEY Of course. Wing goes to look at form. WING 
80.		91   CONTINUED:                                              91 WING   
81.		91   CONTINUED:   
82.		91   CONTINUED:    What the fuck is he talking about? TILLEY If there was some way I could make it up, believe me, I would, because you know where I stand. There's a beat while Wing just looks at Tilley. TILLEY You know where I stand, Wing. If there was any way, believe me, I'd make it up. I'd give you thirty percent of what you didn't get because it was a fluke... I'm willing to make some kind of retribution. WING You just pocketed the God damned money... you just took my money and slipped it into your God damned pocket, didn't you? TILLEY No. I'd split fifty-fifty with you, that's how badly I feel under the circumstances. WING You get this straight, you son of a bitch, you owe me sixteen plus... I want sixteen plus.
tilley		Am I trying to shirk my responsibility? That's not the way I see it... it was a fluke, a crazy thing that happened, but I stand behind my honor on this... put it on my tab. WING 
83.		91   CONTINUED:    Tilley, what the hell happened to you? CUT TO:
tilley		Fuck him! It's on my tab. At least I've got six hundred in my pocket right now. It's like another loan. Sam, you got to think about today. Today, I got six hundred bucks in my pocket. You know what I'm saying? SAM Yeah. 
84.		92   CONTINUED:                                               92 TILLEY It's like some guy trying to sell me life insurance. You think I'm gonna take some money out of my pocket to give to some jerk so that somebody can take it when I'm dead? No, Sam, you gotta live for today. I'm gonna live as good as I can every day. You know what I'm saying? As Sam and Tilley walk towards Tilley's Cadillac, BB and Moe are walking to BB's Cadillac parked close to Tilley's car. They see each other.
tilley		 I thought you were looking to get even. BB Who's your accountant, mister, 'cos I think you're down in the debit side.
tilley		Who's stuck with my wife.   You or me? He laughs. BB You want me to believe that you were setting me up with your wife as some kind of decoy? TILLEY Decoy is the word! There's a long beat as the two guys eye one another. Then, almost in a soft apologetic manner, BB speaks. 
85.		92   CONTINUED:    I smell a rat. BB's car pulls away.    Tilley and Sam watch him go. CUT TO:
bb		If getting Nora is part of losing, Thank God I didn't win. CUT TO:
86.		95   INT. TOBACCO WAREHOUSE - OFFICE - DAY                        95 This is the office of the Home Improvement Commission. Desks, chairs and filing cabinets are all over the place  and boxes and cartons are stacked against a wall. ANGLE ON John Masters walking with a file under his arm. He walks across the half-empty warehouse where workers are renovating the space. He approaches a table where Stanley is seated with his feet up, nursing a hot cup of coffee. Masters throws a file down on the table. MASTERS This is good, Stan... nice work. Stanley nods.
masters		Fossey says it should go down very well with the city council. Could help us appropriate more funds. This goes a long way to establish our credibility in what we're trying to do. We hear a LOUD, SAWING noise and HAMMERING echoing through the warehouse throughout this scene. STANLEY There's a lot more where this came from. MASTERS You know what I think you should do now. Why don't you pull some files... some files that were completed, others that went unsold, and I'll have somebody run it down, talk to the customers and get some statements. STANLEY Pulling files is another thing. That might not be easy. MASTERS To sneak a few here and there when you can. STANLEY I'll see. MASTERS I think that might be good. CUT TO:
87.		96   EXT. STREET - NIGHT                                          96 BB's Cadillac is parked in front of a house. MOE  It's a good location... get a lot of traffic on this street. CUT TO:
89.		98   CONTINUED:                                                 98 MOE BB, I don't have any insurance. If I die, May's got nothing... nothing... nothing for Leonard. The only money I've got is in my pocket. That's all I got. BB Just take it easy, Moe... rest. MOE Did they sign?     Did they sign? BB Don't worry about it now.
moe		Goddamn it, BB! Did you sign them? BB Don't worry... don't worry.     I'll take care of it tomorrow. MOE Goddamn, my chest hurts.  I always taught you, BB, never walk out of a place without a signed contract. Somebody's word ain't spit. BB They'll sign, Moe.    Don't worry, they'll sign.
90.		99    CONTINUED:                                             99 NORA  Well, I'm glad you did. BB I don't know what's gonna happen to Moe.
91.		100   CONTINUED:                                              100 TILLEY No way! I didn't eat anything, so why should I pay for Mouse... he eats like an animal. SAM Well, sometimes you'll eat more than he does, and it'll even out. TILLEY No way! He's a pig! He always eats more than anyone else. Why should I pay for his food? MOUSE What're you talking about? Today I happened to have eggs and flapjacks, some cantalope, some juice and then another juice. TILLEY Like an animal! Like an animal! MOUSE But yesterday, what did I have? TILLEY What did he have? 
92.		100   CONTINUED:                                                 100 TILLEY What is this, a quiz show? We don't know what you had. What did you have? MOUSE I had very little. TILLEY Very little!! You eat like an animal! It couldn't have been very little. MOUSE I didn't have that much... doesn't anybody remember? SAM We don't remember, I don't know why. GLI I could have sworn he had pancakes. TILLEY He said he didn't have pancakes. MOUSE I'll give you a clue... maple syrup was used. TILLEY I don't give a shit. SAM French toast.
93.		100   CONTINUED:    Your wife's knocking on the window here. Tilley looks to the window, acknowledges Nora and points to the far end of the diner, she nods and starts walking across the front of the diner to the door.
tilley		Was not long ago you never would have seen a woman in here. NORA You don't have to tell me. How many nights did you drop me off and come up here all the time? TILLEY I know. I was just trying to be congenial... you know, start a conversation off, on a nice kind of light level, you know. So, what's the scoop, Nora? NORA Well you know, I think we really should get divorced. TILLEY Makes sense.   You want some more coffee? NORA Yeah, I'll have some. TILLEY 
94.		101   CONTINUED:                                              101 NORA Yes, it went wrong somewhere along the line -- I don't know where though. TILLEY Yes, something went wrong... I don't know. Florence walks over and pours coffee for Tilley and Nora, then walks away. TILLEY So you like this guy?
nora		Yeah, I like him. TILLEY All in all I guess it'll all work out for the best. NORA I'm glad you feel that way. TILLEY Yeah, can you figure it out? A guy bangs into my car, thinks I did him in, tries to get even with me by stealing my wife, you two people fall in love... can you figure that out? NORA What?
tilley		You telling me you didn't know this was the guy? NORA This was that guy? TILLEY Yeah, I told you I ran into another tin man. NORA He didn't tell me he was a tin man... he told me he sold baby pictures. 
95.		101   CONTINUED:                                                 101 TILLEY It's your life. All I know is this guy has a bent weather vane. NORA Oh, God!   Not another tin man. CUT TO:
96.		102   CONTINUED:                                                  102 LOONEY Studious type... takes a lot of notes. BB  If this is a sales pitch, I think you got to work a little harder 'cos I don't think you've got good product. CUT TO:
97.		103   CONTINUED:                                              103 ANGLE ON LOONEY as he walks out of the building.   He sees BB's car all smashed up. LOONEY  I think you ought to get rid of this car... it's bad luck. Nora's CAR SCREECHES around the corner. LOONEY Is that the guy again?
bb		No, it's his wife. LOONEY There's some kind of sickness that runs in that family. CUT TO:
98.		104   CONTINUED:                                             104 TILLEY  Yes, sir... yes, sir!
99.		104   CONTINUED:    Turn off the fucking Belafonte song now, or I'm gonna break the goddamn machine!!
100.		105   CONTINUED:                                              105 BB I'm more than sure. Ruthie moves off. BB takes a shot of whiskey and downs it, and then drinks some beer. STANLEY Who was the best you ever saw? BB Best I ever saw?   Best tin man I ever saw? He holds up his shot glass towards the bartender, and the bartender fills it up.
bb		Harry Apel... Dandy Flynn... those guys had good lines, but they burned themselves out too fast. Best? Moe's the best... the best there ever was. If he's in the door, he's got a sale. The best closer ever. STANLEY What's some of the hustles he used to pull? BB downs another shot glass of whisky. BB God damn Nora... God damn Nora! I'm trying to adjust... I'm putting up with things I never put up with in my life. I mean, give me a break... give me a break, woman. Stanely wants to get back to the topic of best tin man. STANLEY 
101.		105   CONTINUED:    This outght to cover it, Stanley. He puts the $10 bill down on the bar and walks out of the club. CUT TO:
102.		107   CONTINUED:                                                      107 SAM They've got nothing concrete against us, because if it's just hearsay stuff, it's neither here nor there. TILLEY  Where's my car? What happened to my car? SAM It's better I drop you off. TILLEY Yeah, it's better. CUT TO:
bb		He ain't here. He gets out of the car and looks around the street some more. He stumbles up to a couple of parked cars, look- ing for Nora's car. He falls into some trash cans in front of the house. CUT TO:
103.		110     CONTINUED:                                              110 Tilley goes to the bedroom window and looks out. He sees BB struggling to his feet, surrounded by trash cans and garbage. TILLEY I knew I    could smell a rat! The son of a    bitch is coming for me... the son    of a bitch never wants to leave me    alone! Tilley walks over to the night table, opens the drawer and pulls out a revolver. CUT TO:
104.		114   CONTINUED:                                              114 BB Hel... Before he can finish the word "Hello," Tilley hits him hard in the head with the butt of the gun. BB falls to the ground unconscious. CUT TO:
105.		115   CONTINUED:                                              115 TILLEY  They ain't saying 'Nelson, I think we've had a break-in... count the sets to see how many we've got left.' There ain't tons of jewelry hanging out of drawers... it ain't like I don't know which watch to put on, I got so many. I'm a working man, trying to make an honest living. What fucking morality you got, asshole?!! Tilley throws another egg at BB and hits him in the head again. Egg yolk drips down BB's face. He tries to get off the floor, but can't.
bb		You're the craziest human being on the face of this earth! Tilley, getting ready with another egg. TILLEY What else do you want from me? Huh? What else?! I've got enough problems with the I.R.S. busting my balls and the Home Improvement Commission bullshit to contend with. I don't need aggravation from you. BB  Nobody does this to me and lives! Nobody!
tilley		 Side of tomatoes? He throws a tomato. BB You're going to rue the day you ran into my car. This ain't the end... this is just the beginning. Tilley throws another egg. CUT TO:
106.		116   INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT                                116 A POLICE OFFICER is interrogating Tilley behind the main desk of the police station. There's a lot of activity during this interaction... people coming and going. TILLEY A guy breaks into my house and I'm being charged with assault? It makes no sense... POLICE OFFICER  Let's get it down right. The guy broke into your house, you hit him in the head with a gun, went to the refrigerator, took out eggs and tomatoes and threw them at him. TILLEY I was defending myself... he was stealing from me. POLICE OFFICER It doesn't sound like defense to me. TILLEY I wanted to humiliate the guy. Here I am, out busting my ass all day making a decent living, I come home, and some schmuck is trying to steal from me. POLICE OFFICER So you hit him with a gun, and pelted him with eggs and tomatoes?
tilley		If I had some soup I would have thrown soup at him... is there any law you can't throw eggs? POLICE OFFICER Mr. Babowski claims he didn't break into your house. TILLEY What did I do? Invite him in so that I could throw eggs at him? 
107.		116   CONTINUED:                                              116 POLICE OFFICER Maybe Mr. Babowski intended to break into your house, but these circumstances of the guy being pelted with eggs and tomatoes is something we need to look into. Tilley shrugs his shoulders. TILLEY He's lucky that he didn't rob me last week, 'cos then my wife was living at home and we had all kinds of things in the fridge... I could have thrown barley soup, pumpkin pie, candied yams... yeah, he got off light. CUT TO:
108.		118   CONTINUED:                                              118 SAM Just air your differences and we'll put an end to this. CUT TO:
109.		120   CONTINUED:                                                120 WAITRESS What will you have? TILLEY Couple of eggs over,   some hash browns, some toast --   toasted dark... butter on the   side, large grapefruit juice and   some coffee. The Waitress writes his order. TILLEY On second thought, instead of the eggs over, if I ordered soft boiled eggs do you take them out of the shell or leave them in the shells? We can see that BB is getting a little irritable. WAITRESS We leave them in the shell. TILLEY I don't like them that way because they get hot in the hand and it's hard to scoop the stuff out... it's not good... and you get little bits of shell in there and it doesn't taste good. BB Why don't you just order some scrambled eggs and be done with it... all right?
tilley		If I'm going to order, at least I ought to be content with my food. BB I'm getting a little hungry... I've got a headache as it is. Just order some eggs so some other people can have something to eat before the lunch trade comes in. TILLEY 
110.		120   CONTINUED:                                               120 BB This is not a four-star restaurant ... we're not having a gourmet meal... we're ordering breakfast, for Christ sake! TILLEY It so happens I haven't been to this restaurant before. I don't know how they do their eggs... if they're over easy and they're gooey, I'm not happy with it... and I'm not happy if the soft boiled eggs are left in the shell...
111.		120   CONTINUED:                                               120 BB stands up.   The Waitress steps back and looks concerned. BB All right, you want to finish it now? You want to finish it right now? I'm ready... I'm ready now! TILLEY You're ready?! You're ready, that's what you're saying?! You're ready now?! I have to be intimidated... I have to be brought here to be intimidated...
bb		I can't stand it any longer. You're driving me out of my mind. BB lunges for Tilley across the table, Sam and Bagel try to intervene -- the Waitress doesn't know what to do. BAGEL Come on, guys... take it easy... take it easy. TILLEY Get the people with the straitjackets... this man is out of control. Tilley and BB pull at one another. BB We're gonna finish it... we're gonna finish it.
112.		120   CONTINUED:     Bagel? CUT TO:
113.		121   CONTINUED:                                             121 MOE You turned down a dance? BB What's the odds on that? You think you can come up with odds on that one? MOE Hundred to one BB don't dance... a hundred to one against. There's a beat. MOE I'm getting out of the business, BB... I've got nothing for all this. BB Lot of good times, Moe. MOE A lot of good times, but I can't live off the good times. 
114.		121   CONTINUED:                                               121 BB looks at Moe for a long beat.   He's obviously greatly affected by this. BB So, May's happy about this Hess Shoe thing, heh? MOE To say the least. CUT TO:
115.		122   CONTINUED:                                              122 TILLEY  Let's go and eat something. SAM Yeah, we'll go and have some lunch at the smorgasbord. CUT TO:
116.		123   CONTINUED:                                             123 TILLEY  Do what you can, all right?    I appreciate it. Amen. Tilley helps himself to some salad. CUT TO:
bb		Nora Tilley, please. We hear a WOMAN'S VOICE on the other end of the phone. WOMAN 
117.		124   CONTINUED:                                             124 BACK TO BB on phone. He's still holding for Nora.    We hear a RING on the other end of the phone. NORA  Mrs. Tilley. BB Nora, this is BB. The PHONE goes DEAD.   BB reluctantly puts the receiver down. CUT TO:
masters		Boloshevski. TILLEY Doesn't ring a bell. 
118.		125   CONTINUED:                                             125 TILLEY That's an awful lot for nothing. Doesn't sound like good business to me. MASTERS Mr. Boloshevski was ultimately charged twenty-four hundred dollars for labor, which according to our figures is about the average cost of an aluminum siding job. SAM 
119.		125   CONTINUED:   
120.		125   CONTINUED:   
121.		125   CONTINUED:    Glad we could be of some service. Tilley and Sam get up from the table and walk out of the building. CUT TO:
122.		127   EXT. SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE - NIGHT                           127 Heavy RAIN is falling. Nora, with an umbrella, walks quickly across the parking lot. Suddenly BB slips under the umbrella with her. NORA  I don't want to see you anymore. She pulls away from BB and continues walking.      BB walks behind her, getting soaked in the rain. BB I gotta talk to you. NORA I don't want to listen. BB Give me a chance to explain.    You owe me that much. Nora still walking toward her car in the downpour. NORA I don't owe you anything. BB lets her walk away.   After a beat, he yells out. BB It was a lousy thing to do, okay? It was a lousy thing to use you to get back at your husband... but the fact is that I never would have met you otherwise. Nora stops and turns to look at BB.
123.		127   CONTINUED:                                              127 NORA I'd like to know what it is about me that I have to fall for tin men. What kind of character flaw do I have? BB I didn't want to have to come here. I wish that I didn't have to ever see you again. I've gone this far in my life without having to have this kind of thing happen to me. I was going through life, sailing along, pretty good... doing okay, and I tried to get even with some crazy guy... and I'm here. NORA The wet becomes you. Gets rid of some of the slickness. BB I don't like the idea that I'm not in control of this, but if this stuff's got to happen, I guess I've got no choice. I wanna... ya know...  ... I wanna be with ya! Okay, I said that... I said it, okay?! I wanna be with ya! It pisses the hell out of me, and I'm gonna tell you that to your face, but I want to be with you because... I miss you and I'd like to live with you... I'd like to marry you... and that's that! Nora eyes him carefully. The rain falls on her umbrella and the rain beats on BB's head. After a long moment. NORA I was hoping for something a little more romantic... but, okay. A slight smile comes to BB's face. CUT TO:
124.		128   INT. PIMLICO HOTEL - BAR/RESTAURANT - NIGHT             128 Tilley and Sam are sitting at the bar  nursing a couple of drinks. In the b.g., the pianist   is playing "Last Night When We Were Young," and a few  people are sitting around the piano joining in with the  song. SAM Ya know, Tilley, we been working together for over a year. TILLEY Yeah, must be about that. SAM I've been thinking that sometimes a different combination makes for better luck. Ya know what I mean? I mean, maybe the two of us ain't the right combination. TILLEY I'm just getting used to ya, Sam. SAM Let's face it, we're not exactly setting the world on fire. TILLEY It's a slump... it's a slump, Sam. SAM Maybe it's a slump, but like baseball, some time they have to change the lineup to get the team going again. TILLEY You're not serious about this, are you, Sam? SAM Yeah. TILLEY You're serious? You wanna get another partner? You don't think I'm gonna pull out of this? SAM I know you're gonna... I know you're gonna. TILLEY So? 
125.		128   CONTINUED:                                                128 SAM Look, we beat the   Commission today ... you know, we   got a little bit of a victory.  We   split right now and maybe we can   add to that... you know what I'm   saying? TILLEY I know... I know. Change in the lineup. Okay, maybe it'll help... maybe it'll help.  You got any ideas for a new partner?
sam		Well, I had a    conversation with Solly Shavitz,    so... maybe I'll go with him.  Here's to some pretty good times, huh? Sam smiles.
126.		129   CONTINUED:                                              129 LOONEY Pretty good? Whew! Man's what legends are made of. Started selling pots and pans door to door at sixteen. Nothing he can't sell.
bb		Yeah. NORA You don't really show a great deal of exuberance. BB Honey, for me... I'm a parade. CUT TO:
127.		130   CONTINUED:                                              130 CAMERA PANS to see Nora's car pulling up in front of the house. Nora turns off the car lights and exits the car. She starts up the front walk and stops. NORA What happened? TILLEY The I.R.S... they need my furniture. They got some living room somewhere in this country that needs to be furnished. NORA They're taking the furniture?
tilley		The furniture, the whole house. They locked it up... they confiscated it. NORA  What do you expect? You expect to get some preferential treatment ... you're some special case? You've got to pay your taxes just like everybody else has to pay their taxes! Tilley shrugs. NORA How many arguments did we used to have about filing your taxes?
tilley		We had a lot of arguments. Nora starts toward him.     Tilley sits on the steps. NORA 
128.		130   CONTINUED:    What're you doing here, anyway? NORA There's just a couple of things you didn't throw out of the house ... a couple of things I didn't find in the drawer.
tilley		I don't know... I did a pretty good house cleaning number on you. NORA Listen, about the divorce. Do you want to file, or should I file? TILLEY I got to be frank with you, this guy is nuts. NORA He told me all about it... all about how you threw eggs at him. TILLEY He told you it was about eggs? The guy tried to break into my house. He tried to steal things from me.
nora		He was trying to find me.    We had an argument. TILLEY I think you'd be making a big mistake if you married him. NORA It's not for you to make decisions for me. TILLEY I think maybe I should, because I think you're being misled... I think you're confused. I think... 
129.		130   CONTINUED:   
130.		130   CONTINUED:    You don't care about me... it's the same bullshit you're doing. That's what it always is with you, Tilley. It's always you! The I.R.S. took your house... your furniture! You don't say anything about my things in the house. I've got things in the house I worked damn hard for, and things that belonged to my family... the headboard that was given to me by Aunt Josephine, it's got to be at least a hundred years old... and the hand-embroidered footstool...
tilley		What footstool? NORA The hand-embroidered footstool over by the TV. TILLEY I don't remember seeing that. NORA It's been there forever... it was my granny's. TILLEY It's been there forever?   I've never seen it. NORA You've never seen it!? You've never seen it!? You put your feet on it to watch TV... the hand-embroidered footstool. TILLEY I don't know what you're talking about. I never put my feet up to watch TV. NORA That's the way you are, Tilley, it doesn't mean anything to you. You don't care if they take it all away. It's all you, Tilley! That's the way it's always been. 
131.		130   CONTINUED:                                               130 She stands there for a moment, then turns back to her car, gets in, slams the door and drives off. Tilley stands on the front steps with a puzzled look on his face. TILLEY Hand-embroidered footstool? He walks over to his car, gets in and STARTS the ENGINE... shaking his head in disbelief. CUT TO:
132.		132   CONTINUED:                                            132 STANLEY I'll put everything back, nobody's the wiser. BB You work for the Commission, is that it? Stan nods "yes." BB Doesn't the Commission have enough information? They got to send out guys like you to spy?
stanley		Well, we just started out, and if we had some really good hard facts of some infractions, it would give us a lot of credibility in the community. BB walks closer to Stanley, looks at him for a second, grabs him by his tie and pushes him backwards. Stanley crashes into the filing cabinet. BB You know what your big problem is, Stanley? You're lazy. If you want to find out stuff, then you dig... you get on the phone... you canvas... 'We're from the Home Improvement Commission...' Go find your leads... that's what we do all the time. You're just lazy, Stanley. If we're doing something wrong, you should collect all your evidence. Instead, you snoop around... steal files. What is this? Undercover time? You think you're breaking up some big drug ring? Is this the Mafia you've infiltrated? All you've got here is a bunch of guys selling tin for Christ sake! 
133.		132   CONTINUED:                                                 132 BB Here... here's some jobs I did. Leave Moe out of this... he quit the business. Stanley gathers up the files from the desk. BB Go on, get out of here. Stanley starts for the door, and turns back. STANLEY Why are you doing this?
bb		If it's    not gonna be you, it's gonna be    somebody else... and if it's not    tonight, it's gonna be another    time. Stanley exits the office. BB picks up the files that Stanley had taken out of the filing cabinet, and starts to put them back. Then he slams the filing drawers closed very hard. CUT TO:
134.		133   CONTINUED:                                             133 NORA What? BB You know, those little Volkswagens. NORA What does that mean? BB It's a car... a little car. NORA What does that have to do with anything?
bb		I dunno... they're interesting. NORA What? BB It's interesting. NORA What's so interesting about a car? BB I dunno. It's a little thing... you know, a little thing. Guy tells me they don't even have radiators... they're air-cooled. NORA Yeah?
bb		It's interesting... different... something new. I like it. CUT TO:
135.		134   CONTINUED:                                             134 TILLEY  Tilley and Mouse. It looks weird, doesn't it? Looks very weird. WING Let's hope you have some better luck with Mouse. CUT TO:
gil		Hey, Tilley... Mr. Marengay's out here. Tilley comes out of the office and stands looking at BB. BB Can I talk to you in private, or do I have to talk to you over fourteen pool tables? Tilley moves down the hall toward BB. 
136.		135   CONTINUED:                                              135 BB We've got enough that's going down between the two of us, but the fact of the matter is that I love your wife, and I want to marry her. TILLEY I don't care who she marries, but I don't want her marrying you! BB Why don't we just talk about this in a nice, rational manner.
tilley		Rational?   You're going to be rational? BB We've got our problems, but let's try and isolate this particular situation. TILLEY Isolate... isolate... I like this kind of talk. What the hell nonsense is that? BB What are you gonna gain from this thing here? TILLEY Now let me see here... I've got to isolate that for a moment and think it over. BB Nobody's going to benefit from making me mad. TILLEY You ought to hear yourself. You know that? You ought to listen to the way you talk. You come in here, you want to take my wife ... you want to isolate this situation... you want to be rational. I've got no tolerance for you, mister. You know what I'm saying? 
137.		135   CONTINUED:    You like pool? The other tin men move closer to Tilley and BB, crowding in. BB I enjoy the game.
tilley		Why don't we play a little  game of eight ball? If I lose,   I consent to the divorce...  if you lose, you give Nora up...  walk away from her. BB stares at Tilley; Tilley eyes BB. BB  Rack 'em. HARD CUT TO:
138.		135   CONTINUED:                                                 135 He quickly surveys the     table and sees his next shot. He hits the ball, it goes     toward the pocket, but bounces back slightly, missing     the pocket. Tilley quickly goes to work. He sinks his      first shot... his second. He makes a difficult shot. TILLEY Yes, sir!    Yes, sir! Tilley    keeps moving around the table, sinking one ball after    the other. He's enthusiastic, excited and confi- dent.     He sinks another ball, and another. He sinks every    ball, then he eyes the eight ball for the coup de grace.
139.		135   CONTINUED:                                                135 BB I'm gonna beat the crap out of you. You want it here or do you want it outside? TILLEY Outside. BB turns his back on Tilley to move toward the door. Tilley swings with all his might and hits BB in the     back of the head. BB almost falls to the ground. Tilley       goes to hit him again. BB hits him in the face, knocking      him back. Tilley falls back... BB starts to move toward      him. The tin men move in.
tilley		Stay out of this... this is between the two of us. BB gets to his feet... the two guys eye one another, moving. BB quickly moves with incredible cat-like speed with four hits into the stomach, really fast, and one hit to Tilley's head. Tilley falls into the rack of pool cues, they all fall to the ground. BB goes to jump on Tilley. He slips on one of the pool cues and falls to the ground.
140.		136   EXT. INDUSTRIAL ESTATE AREA - DAY                             136 BB drives up to the front of the Superior Aluminum Siding building. He stops the car and gets out. He is fairly disheveled and has a bruise on his cheek. He walks up to the entrance of the building. CUT TO:
141.		137   CONTINUED:                                             137 LOONEY ... And he always gets what he wants. Looney looks up and sees BB's face. LOONEY Hey, Beeb. What happened to you? That broad beat the shit out of you? BB smiles. LOONEY I think you must enjoy these masochistic relationships. Smashes your car... punches you in the face... Bagel walks out of his office and across to NICK, a tin man sitting at a desk across from Looney. He hands Nick a file. LOONEY  Looks a little too romantic for me. He walks back to his office.
cheese		You know who's no longer married to who? CARLY Well, we ought to know. There's like a million fucking people living in Baltimore. How many guesses do we get? 
142.		137   CONTINUED:                                               137
143.		137   CONTINUED:                                             137 CARLY                BB smiles and walks over I don't know... I'm just     to Bagel who is standing making names up for Christ   outside of his office sake.                        looking through some files. BB hands him the summons -- CHEESE               Bagel looks at it. They did break up, but that's not who I was                 BAGEL thinking about.              Jesus Christ! I think you should take some LOONEY               legal counsel, Double B. I'd like to call on Vivien... she's one hot              BB broad.                       Not necessary.
144.		137   CONTINUED:                                              137 CHEESE                  BB puts the summons into What does this have to do       his breast pocket and with the couple who broke       exits the office. up? CARLY We'll get to that once we've discussed Wilma... they'll still be broken up... we'll get to that in a minute. LOONEY How do you know Wilma? CUT TO:
tilley		What the hell's he doing hanging around here? WING He wants information. TILLEY I nailed his ass the other day, Wing. Can't lay a finger on me. I was amazing, you should have been there. I was amazing... I was respectful, courteous, but I was slipping and sliding... they couldn't touch me. 
145.		138   CONTINUED:                                             138 WING I got a real problem, Tilley. Come inside, I'll buy you a drink. CUT TO:
146.		139   CONTINUED:                                             139 TILLEY Jesus Christ! WING Listen, Tilley, you owe me sixteen plus from the race, and you're in for over two grand on the books, so I tell you what... I'll wipe the slate clean. He takes out his wallet from his pocket, and peels off a few notes. WING Here's a thou until you get yourself set up. I can do no better than that. TILLEY 
147.		139   CONTINUED:     I'm sorry, Tilley. That's the way of the world. He pats Tilley on the back and walks away. CUT TO:
148.		143   CONTINUED:                                              143 ANOTHER ANGLE Eggs being slipped onto a plate with some bacon and hash browns.
another angle		BB comes into the kitchen of his apartment.    He is tying his tie. WIDEN SHOT to include Nora. NORA I can't believe that you're up so early. This is a rare occasion.
bb		Yeah. I just got some business downtown I gotta take care of. He stands there watching Nora as she prepares the plates of food. NORA Toast will be ready in a second. Coffee's on the table. He continues to stand watching her -- she's not aware that he's watching her. She waits for the toast to pop up out of the toaster. BB Listen, Nora. I... um... I... er ... lied to you the other day. Nora is still waiting for the toast, looking inside the toaster to see if it's getting brown.
nora		How so? BB I went to see Tilley about the divorce. She turns to look at him. BB He was not too agreeable, and one thing led to another, and we decided to shoot some pool to settle the matter. NORA What?! 
149.		143   CONTINUED:    Hand me the toast. NORA Get the toast yourself. BB takes the toast out of the toaster. BB I'm just trying to be honest. It's been on my mind... on my conscience. He picks up a plate.
bb		This plate yours or mine? NORA Why don't you take both... maybe you can choke to death on one of them. BB takes one of the plates and goes toward the table. Nora watches him a beat, amazed that he doesn't seem to recognize the seriousness of the situation. 
150.		143   CONTINUED:    How can you be so... how     can you not understand how wrong     that is? I can't understand that     mentality! Shoot pool for me! It's      insane. BB dips his toast into his eggs. BB Tilley is not the     most rational man in this world.      I tried to talk to him... he     wouldn't listen. So, what      are my options? You know what I'm     saying? What are my options? NORA I can't believe you had to shoot pool! Don't you understand that ... don't you understand how crazy that is? You're sitting there... you're eating your eggs as if it's normal business in life here! Like feudal lords or something you used to read about in history books. BB All right, I'm sorry. Beat. NORA What happened?
bb		I lost. He dips more toast into his eggs and eats. NORA You lost? BB I blew the eight ball. NORA You lost? BB Yeah. 
151.		143   CONTINUED:                                               143 NORA What does that mean? BB It means I'm supposed to give you up, and I'm never supposed to see you again. NORA Will you stop eating the eggs for a minute! How can you tell me things like this and casually eat your eggs?! What does this mean, Bill?
bb		Well, I'm supposed to give you up as part of honoring that agreement, but I'm not that honorable a guy. He smiles, takes a quick sip of his coffee. BB I gotta go. NORA Why are you running off so fast here? BB I told you, I got some business downtown. He gives her a kiss. Starts to go, turns back, gives her another kiss, more passionate this time.
bb		I'll see you later. He goes down the hall to walk out the front door.
152.		145   EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - DAY                                    145 Tilley pulls his Cadillac into a parking space just a little up the street from the tobacco warehouse which houses the Home Improvement Commission. He gets out of his car, locks the door and starts down the street. BB's car drives past Tilley. CAMERA FOLLOWS BB's car as he pulls into a parking space close to the Commission building. CUT TO:
153.		146   CONTINUED:                                              146 TILLEY You gave them evidence? BB The only way I could think to get out of this business. He smiles. TILLEY  Hey, that's good... that's good, yeah. There's activity in the hallway.
154.		147   CONTINUED:                                                  147 TILLEY I'm not aware of the section numbers. Sometimes you get a little overzealous in the heat of the sales pitch, that's all. BB is watching the proceedings.      CAMERA HOLDS ON him. MASTERS  Was it the heat of the sales pitch on February 23rd of this year that made you write across a contract 'This Job Is Free'?
on tilley		who is falling apart. TILLEY As I remember, no sale was made concerning those customers. MASTERS It fell out because a loan couldn't be arranged, but the people did agree in principle. 
155.		147   CONTINUED:    We have other specific examples of deceptive sales practices on your behalf concerning a job carried out on December 11, 1962. You violated sections 241 and 247. And concerning a job sold to Mr. and Mrs. DeFranco on October 9, 1962, violations of sections 251 and 257 took place. TILLEY What are all these numbers here? I'm not familiar with all these section violations.
on bb		who is watching the proceedings intently. MASTERS  It is the feeling of this commission that these infractions are severe violations of the Home Improvement Laws, and therefore constitute misuse of the license to sell aluminum siding as approved by this state.
156.		147   CONTINUED:                                              147 BACK TO MASTERS MASTERS Thank you, Mr. Tilley. You may hand over your license to the clerk of the commission on your way out.
tilley		gets up from the table and goes to the back of the room to exit the building. He stops at a desk just inside the door where the clerk is sitting. Tilley pulls out his wallet, takes out a small document, and throws it down on the desk. He exits the building. CUT TO:
157.		149   CONTINUED:                                                 149 KID Did you have a car parked here? A Cadillac? TILLEY Yeah.   What about it? KID A man told me to say they took it. TILLEY Who took it? KID Man said, the tax man.     Gave me a dollar to tell you so. Tilley walks over and stands in the empty space where his car had been. TILLEY Tax man! Fucking I.R.S. How low can you get? How low can you get? He walks around in the space as if somehow his car might reappear. He mumbles to himself. TILLEY They're lowlife. How can people come and take a man's car?... His Cadillac? CUT TO:
158.		150   CONTINUED:                                             150 BB BB  Thank you. BB gets up and walks to the back of the  room. He stops at the same desk as Tilley, but instead  of going into his wallet like Tilley, he just reaches  into his suit pocket, pulls out a license document and  tosses it onto the table. Then he heads out the door. CUT TO:
tilley		This is where my car used to be. BB Stolen? TILLEY I.R.S. Fucking bandits! Bandits! Thieving sons of bitches! BB looks at Tilley for a beat. BB You need a ride uptown? TILLEY I could use one. 
159.		151   CONTINUED:                                            151 BB Come on. They cross the street and go toward BB's Cadillac. BB gets in the driver's side, Tilley gets in the passenger side, and the car pulls out. CUT TO:
160.		153   CONTINUED:                                              153 TILLEY Nickels and dimes. You got a good point there, BB. You're right on the money with that kind of thinking. BB stops the car at a stop sign. Something catches BB's eye. THROUGH the windshield we see a Volkswagen "beetle" going from right to left.
bb		Gotta find a new business to get into. TILLEY New? Very hard to find something new to get into. BB puts his foot on the gas and starts to drive. BB Maybe... maybe not. TILLEY Better put on my thinking cap... not easy to think of something new. CUT TO:
****Dialogues from script :Tinker_Tailor_Soldier_Spy.txt****

magyar		 And porkolts. You know porkolts?
jim prideaux		 Yes, I've had it.
magyar		It's very good. Better than goulash. But you won't get it in Budapest now.
jim prideaux		Why's that?
magyar		All the pigs have gone to Moscow.
jim prideaux		When do I get to meet your friend?
magyar		I'll take you to him. Not eating?
jim prideaux		Would you excuse me a moment?
kgb man		No firing!
percy alleline		 I wish I could have done more, Control.
control		 Well, a man should know when to leave the party.
toby esterhase		What about Smiley?
control		Smiley is leaving with me.
bill haydon		You little prick Esterhase.
polyakov		 Shall we begin?
lacon		 This is private property. Who are you?
ricki tarr		Minister Lacon.
lacon		What do you want?
ricki tarr		I want to talk to Control. And I want breakfast.
peter guillam		 Has that been cleared?
bill haydon		I'm not bloody chaining it outside. Mind you, probably no safer in here, with you bunch of cut-throats.
haydon		Thought I'd get a glimpse of the new girl. Before Bland gets to her. He seen her yet?
guillam		Oh yes. Down first thing.
haydon		You may fuck me, Belinda, but you still have to call me sir in the morning.
peter guillam		Peter Guillam...
smiley		 Have I time to change?  Guillam nods, following Smiley into the house. He glances at a painting on the wall - a muddy ABSTRACT. He crosses to examine it and then notices the bundle of Ann's unopened letters.
smiley		Are we going far?
lacon		How's your mother?
peter guillam		Very well.  Is this where he got out?
lacon		Mmm, I came back in and it was wide open.  Do send her my love. Apologies for singling you out, but... very sensitive matter...
peter guillam		Ricki Tarr, sir. One of my scalp- hunters. He's been on the wanted list for a year. Last job was Istanbul, bit of coat-trailing for a Russian convention.
lacon		Why is he on the wanted list?
peter guillam		 He killed our man in Istanbul. Cut his throat. Been on the run since then.
lacon		My God. In my own home... my family... The bloody animals you people employ!
lacon		And how are you George? Missing one's work, one's buddies?
smiley		Oh, I think I manage pretty well, thank you.
lacon		Your wife, the lovely Ann? She's in the pink, and so on.
smiley		Very well.  Very bonny...
lacon		Do you know this man Tarr?
smiley		 I recruited him actually. In Penang. Good with women. Likes to talk. What did he say to you?
lacon		He said he had some intelligence for Control. Had no idea he was dead. The news obviously hadn't reached Wonga Wonga land. Then he said he would only tell it to someone outside the Circus. If he couldn't have a Minister, he would settle for the Under-secretary. Lucky me.
lacon		I was sad to see you go, George. I thought it was shabby, very shabby. 
smiley		I am retired, Oliver.
lacon		Thing is, some time back, when Control was still alive, he came to me with a similar suggestion.
smiley		No.
lacon		I just thought... with you being "his man", so to speak.
smiley		What did you say to him?
lacon		 I'm afraid I thought his paranoia had got the better of him and he was pulling his own house down. That does happen in your business. And that bloody mess in Budapest...
smiley		 I'll keep Peter Guillam. And there's a retired special branch man. Mendel. I'd like to have him.
lacon		Yes, yes. Do your own housekeeping. Good man.
smiley		No, we never did.
mendel		Her real name is plain Graham. Added the Pope for a touch of class.
smiley		Control lived with his sister didn't he?
mendel		Basingstoke. Not much of a paper- trail as you can imagine. His pension and she owns a block of bedsits in her own name in West London.
guillam		We should...
mendel		... Webb and Bryson are the letting agents. Properties in half of the west end judging by this list...
smiley		We're only looking for short term rentals. Within the last year.
smiley		How long was H. Staunton a tenant?
mendel		 Still is. Been renting for a few years now. Something?
smiley		 Howard Staunton. Control used to say he was England's greatest chess master. Died in eighteen seventy- four.
toby esterhase		Help you with something Bill?
bill haydon		Looking for his Majesty.
toby esterhase		 He's walking the battlements.
bill haydon		 Much obliged.
alleline		 Roy.
bland		It's the Yanks. They want to come in and talk.
alleline		Of course they do. We have Witchcraft. And they don't.
smiley		Thank you. Anywhere will do.
mendel		 That enough for you to be getting on with?
smiley		 No. Peter, I need you to do something for me...
kaspar		 Sorry Peter, didn't know you were doing... whatever you were doing...?
peter guillam		Trying not to bleed to death. Fawley's got a first aid kit in one of his drawers. Get me a plaster will you?  Kaspar busies himself with the first-aid. Eyes hard.
roy bland		 Heard you had an accident.
peter guillam		Cut it on a drawer handle.  When are we going to get some new furniture round here?
roy bland		I'll have a word with Esterhase, Peter. We'll make it a priority on the top floor.
peter guillam		Lunch.
roy bland		Want some company?
roy bland		Tell you the truth, I'm in no hurry to get back up there...
peter guillam		Smothered by the Mothers.
roy bland		Something like that. Those old birds, all pining for Control. Percy still can't get a decent cup of tea out of them. Still, I imagine it takes time.
peter guillam		What does?
roy bland		Loyalty.
peter guillam		 Here.
roy bland		 What do you think of Datsuns?
peter guillam		What?
roy bland		Datsuns. Just got one. Wife made me. Hatchback. Caught sight of myself in it, driving past a shop window and I thought to myself "Who's that old fucker?"
peter guillam		Citroen.
roy bland		French? Ooh la la...  He continues to stare at Guillam with the faint smile, and Guillam feels a sickening wave of paranoia.  ROY BLAND  Drink up and I'll drop you back. You've probably got some girl waiting...
peter guillam		Jerry Westerby, dismissed December 4th. And... Connie Sachs, retired November 28th. That's just two weeks after you and Control were forced out.
smiley		I know that car.
lacon		On our way to La Bohme. The Minister wondered if there was anything to report?
smiley		Not much, I'm afraid. We were just discussing the departure of Connie Sachs. I wonder how Research manages without her.
peter guillam		Probably relieved. She always struck me as unhinged.
smiley		That was one of her talents.
lacon		 Looking a little unhinged yourself, George.
smiley		 Hmm?
lacon		 Control lost his position because of that fiasco in Budapest... that poor chap...?
peter guillam		Jim Prideaux.
smiley		Yes. Yes, he did.
lacon		How did you get this? This is Witchcraft material.
smiley		Control was out. And Alleline was in. Thanks to...
smiley		Return to Oxford please.
smiley		 Oh, I brought...
connie sachs		 Not supposed to. Doctor's orders.
smiley		You left the Circus shortly after I retired...
connie sachs		I didn't leave. I was dismissed. Chucked out on the rubbish heap.  Like you.
smiley		 Why?
connie sachs		"Lost my sense of proportion." That's what that personnel cow said. Wouldn't let go of a bone.
smiley		Which bone?
connie sachs		Polyakov.
smiley		Polyakov.
connie sachs		Cultural Attach Polyakov.
smiley		Stationed where?
connie sachs		Here. London. Turned up in sixty five. And I had a feeling, as soon as I laid eyes on him. But that little swine Toby Esterhase told me I was seeing Spies under the bed.
smiley		Esterhase said that?
connie sachs		He had him graded Persil. Whiter than white. And that was that.
smiley		But you disagreed?
connie sachs		Pretty Polly? Very military bearing for someone who's never supposed to have been in the army. But, he was good. Went to Embassy functions, lectures. I love a man who lives his cover. Never put a foot wrong.
smiley		 Never?
connie sachs		 Pretty Polly. Pretty Polly...
percy alleline		 You're to leave Polyakov alone. You're becoming obsessed with him.
connie sachs		Hate the real world. I know you never liked him.
smiley		 What nonsense. What on earth makes you say that?
connie sachs		 I don't know.
smiley		 It was the war, Connie.
connie sachs		A real war. Englishmen could be proud then.
polyakov		... He says "Father, father, I've just had sex with two 17 year old girls." The Priest says "That's quite a sin, but you're an Atheist, General Secretary..."
control		Step into my lair.
control		 Sit down and take a look at this nonsense.
smiley		 Where did you get it?
control		I didn't. Percy and his little cabal walked in with it.
toby esterhase		 Control...
control		Shut up, Esterhase.
smiley		If it's genuine it's gold-dust.  But its topicality makes it suspect.
control		Smiley is suspicious, Percy. Smells a fake.
smiley		Where does it come from? What's the access?
control		Percy doesn't feel like telling.
percy alleline		A new secret source of mine.
smiley		But how could he possibly have access to...?
percy alleline		He has access to the most sensitive levels of policy making.
smiley		 We?
control		Percy and his pals have bypassed us, Smiley. Gone straight to the Minister. Everyone's very excited. Percy's to be allowed to keep the identity of his new friend top secret.
percy alleline		The Minister agrees with me that too many secrets are blown around here. Too much failure, too many scandals, too little solid intelligence!
control		Luckily Percy's cabal has come to save us.
percy alleline		 It's all office politics here.
roy bland		Percy does have a point, Control. We should be fighting communism, not each other.
percy alleline		Meanwhile we're losing our reputation, our partners...
control		Your bloody Yanks!
percy alleline		 And we've had enough! There's going to be changes, Smiley! Changes.
toby esterhase		We need to decide if we're part of the past, or part of the future.
control		 I should have left you where I found you.
roy bland		Control, if we could all just...
control		OUT! ALL OF YOU!
smiley		 If Witchcraft is genuine...
control		I don't trust miracles.
mendel		 Courtesy of Mrs P. You been up all night?
smiley		Yes.
mendel		What's that?
smiley		Request for a thousand pound's in cash from the reptile fund.
mendel		What for?
smiley		For a Mister Ellis.
mendel		Who's Ellis?
smiley		It was one of Jim Prideaux's work names.
mendel		What's so strange about that then?
smiley		The date. Prideaux was killed in Hungary a year ago. October twenty first. So why was 
prideaux		Hand those out.
prideaux		 Come down here.
roach		Yes sir.
prideaux		Gave me a turn up there, parked on the horizon. Thought you were a Juju man. What's your name?
bill roach		Sir, Roach, sir. Bill. I'm a new boy.
prideaux		New arrival, eh? Middle of year? What's the story?
bill roach		 My mother and father... my father's left, so...
prideaux		Bill? The unpaid Bill. Anyone ever call you that?
bill roach		No sir.
prideaux		Known a lot of Bills. They've all been good `uns. What you good at?
bill roach		Nothing sir.
prideaux		You're a good watcher though eh? Us loners always are. No one else spotted me when I turned up here. Best watcher in the unit, Bill Roach is, I'll bet. Long as he's got his specs on. Right?
bill roach		 Yes sir.
prideaux		Free period, isn't it? Don't waste it down here.
ricki tarr		Hello Mister Smiley. You remember me.
smiley		Hello, Ricki.
ricki tarr		Losing my touch.
smiley		Where've you been, Ricki?
ricki tarr		Here, there. Run out of places now. They're gonna kill me.
smiley		Who is?
ricki tarr		Your lot. Or their lot. Whoever gets me first. I'm innocent, by the way. Within reason.  You going to find him then? The Mole?
smiley		I'm going to try. How long have you been here?
ricki tarr		Few days. Needed somewhere to hide.
smiley		I wouldn't use my home as a safe house. There's every chance they're watching it.
ricki tarr		Calculated risk Mister Smiley. I wanted to see you, figured you'd turn up here sooner or later.
smiley		What do you want Ricki?
ricki tarr		There's a woman. I want you to trade for her. Get her back from Karla.
smiley		What woman?
ricki tarr		Her name's Irina.
tufty thesinger		 This is going to be a long night.
ricki tarr		You baby-sit this one.  Ricki walks towards us.
ricki tarr		Your bloke's a bit of a bastard.  Just wanted to check you were alright.
smiley		You were due to fly home the next day. What did you tell London?
ricki tarr		Nothing. Didn't have anything to tell yet. But... I could sense it in her.
smiley		Sense what?
ricki tarr		A secret.
irina		I know what you are.
smiley		What made you so sure she wasn't coat-trailing?
ricki tarr		We've all got our strengths. And weaknesses.
smiley		She had children in Russia?
ricki tarr		That's why they let her and Boris out. So, I said I'd tell the Circus.
smiley		 But you didn't?
irina		If I tell you, I'm putting my life in your hands. The lives of my children? Do you understand?
irina		 Promise me you'll be careful. No details to the Circus. Not until we're safe.
ricki tarr		 I promise.
tufty thesinger		You were supposed to have gone. London stations's been on to me. They want to know what the hell you're doing.
ricki tarr		 Fuck off.
smiley		And what did your message say, Ricki?
ricki tarr		Just that I had a Moscow Centre trained hood wanting to defect.
smiley		What else?
ricki tarr		I know what I am to the Circus. One of the scalp-hunters. Someone to give the dirty jobs to. I wanted to bring this one in myself.
smiley		Yes. I quite see that.
ricki tarr		I said that she claimed to have information crucial to the well- being of the Circus.
ricki tarr		That she had information concerning a Double Agent.
smiley		What happened next Ricki?
ricki tarr		I waited for a reply.
ricki tarr		They put her on a ship. That's all I know. I've done a lot of things Mister Smiley, but... I don't know why... I keep thinking about her. 
smiley		Where are you going Ricki? You said yourself, Karla will be looking for you. I can take you somewhere. Keep you safe.
ricki tarr		Who's going to keep you safe?
oliver lacon		Percy has always resisted suggestions of wider exploitation of Witchcraft's intelligence.
minister		Drop the bloody jargon, Lacon.
percy alleline		I've refused to share Witchcraft with our allies, so far, Minister.
minister		Greedy boy.
percy alleline		My goal has been to establish his track record beyond all doubt. I think the time has come to approach our American brothers-in- arms.
minister		You think they'll take us back into bed?
percy alleline		I'm not interested in a one-off trade. I want on-going access to American intelligence.
minister		Do you think we can get it?
percy alleline		With Witchcraft on our side, I think we can get anything we bloody-well want.
control		Percy. Did you do this?
percy alleline		I followed the recipe.
control		Smiley? Where's Ann? Get me a lady of taste? Ann will sort it out.
smiley		 I'll go find her.
peter guillam		You look tired.
smiley		Yes. I didn't sleep well.  If you have the slightest reservation...
peter guillam		Is feeling sick to your stomach a slight reservation?
smiley		If you're caught, Peter, you can't mention me. I'm sorry, but you're alone.
mendel		You're clean. Nothing on your back. Nothing on your conscience.
bryant		Mister Guillam? How's the family?
peter guillam		Fine, Bryant. Up to Registry today.
bryant		Okay sir. Yellow one for the bag sir.
peter guillam		Time you oiled this thing, isn't it?
peter guillam		You're kidding?
janitor pete		New rules.
peter guillam		Mind the jewels.
janitor pete		Pen and watch sir.
peter guillam		You don't look pleased to see me, Bill?
bill haydon		Why would I be? You bloody pariah.
peter guillam		Doing some research. Makes a change from sitting on my arse.
bill haydon		Heard it was quiet down there.
peter guillam		As the grave. When're you going to give us something to do?
bill haydon		Haven't you heard? Technology's the future. No need for you apes anymore. I can get you a posting to Northern Ireland if that helps get the blood racing.
peter guillam		Thanks anyway. Stick to sitting on my arse.
janitor alwyn		 Want me to look after that for you, Mister Guillam?
peter guillam		Thanks...
janitor alwyn		Gotta give you a chit. The Dolphin'll kill me if I don't. New Rules.
peter guillam		So, chit me.
sal		What you up to this weekend?
peter guillam		 Visiting aunts.
sal		I'll bet.
janitor alwyn		 Telephone sir.
peter guillam		 Oh to hell, who is it?
janitor alwyn		Outside line, sir. Someone rough. The garage, I think, regarding your car.
peter guillam		 Well, damn. Can't you do the bloody repair?
mendel		Can't be done sir, you're going to need a new gear box.
peter guillam		At least get on to the main dealers first...
peter guillam		Well, hold on...
toby esterhase		Could we see you Peter?
peter guillam		Of course.
janitor alwyn		Will do sir.
toby esterhase		The Chief will take no calls, please, ladies...
mother		 We can hear.
toby esterhase		We are having a conference.
percy alleline		 Well now young Peter Guillam, are you ready for me finally?
peter guillam		Couple of Arab ploys look quite promising. Other than that, getting quite good at ping-pong.
percy alleline		Arabs... You can rent one but you can't buy one. Right Bill?
peter guillam		 Fine. We have tea at Fortnum's every afternoon.
percy alleline		I require the matter of your discussion with Tarr.
peter guillam		I'll tell him. He'll be thrilled.
percy alleline		 What's that shrug for?
peter guillam		But I haven't been seeing him! So get your facts straight and get OFF MY BACK!
percy alleline		So if I told you that Tarr had recently arrived in Paris would you be surprised?
peter guillam		Nothing would surprise me about Tarr.
percy alleline		And if I told you we happen to know that thirty thousand pounds mysteriously appeared in his bank account last month, would that surprise you?
peter guillam		What for?
percy alleline		Never mind what for! To muddy the water, that's what for! Spread a whole lot of damn nonsense to get us chasing our tails! The point is this - he's heading for home. The first peep from him you come to the grown-ups, understood? Anyone you see at this table. But not another damn soul!
mechanic		 He's waiting for you.
mendel		 Where we off to?
peter guillam		The hotel. I have to see George.
mendel		Mister Smiley isn't at the hotel, sir. Change of venue.
tarr		Hello, Mister Guillam, sorry I took so long to come back.
fawn		Excuse me, sir.
smiley		Ricki's been helping us Peter.  He's been telling us all about his adventures.
peter guillam		 He's a double, George! There is no Mole! The whole thing's a pack of lies thought up by Moscow. Karla's bought him for thirty thousand pounds!
smiley		As you did take the trouble to steal it...
ricki tarr		 S'right.
smiley		What was the date?
peter guillam		He doesn't know because there was no telegram! The whole thing...
ricki tarr		November 20th. It would have been November 20th. Evening.
smiley		November 20th is missing.  Someone is covering their tracks Peter. Unless you think that's just a coincidence?
peter guillam		What about the money?
smiley		Thirty thousand isn't so much for Karla to pay if it protects his Mole. I'm afraid someone in the Circus knows all about Mister Tarr and is doing everything they can to discredit him.
peter guillam		 "Enquiries to the fifth floor."
smiley		You recognize that handwriting?  That's Toby Esterhase.
peter guillam		Why didn't you tell me? That you had Tarr?
smiley		Secrecy is a habit.
peter guillam		I should get some rest. And I suppose you should get your reading done.
peter guillam		I'm sorry.
smiley		What for?
peter guillam		I wanted to believe Tarr was lying.  All this time, thinking I'm fighting a war. It's a sham. Karla won years ago and we didn't even know it.
peter guillam		 What did he say?
smiley		 Think of your wife. You have a wife, don't you? I brought you some cigarettes, by the way.
peter guillam		That was Karla? And he flew back to die rather than give in?
smiley		Yes.  And that's how I know he can be beaten. Because he's a fanatic. And the fanatic is always concealing a secret doubt.
peter guillam		What did he look like?
smiley		That's the thing.  I can't remember.
richard		 Nearly done.
roach		 Time sir?
prideaux		 Got your specs on Jumbo?
roach		Yes, sir.
prideaux		Who's the fellow down there?
roach		 Don't know sir.
prideaux		Who is he? Beggarman? Thief? Why doesn't he look this way? 
class		 Best car in England!
belinda		Stop it! Stop it!
kaspar		Keep your bloody hands off her!
scalphunter		Christ's sake, don't fight over a bit of skirt!
jerry westerby		But that's the way it is, George, isn't it? When you're out, you're out. Too much of this stuff.
smiley		 I need to talk to you about the night Jim Prideaux was killed, Jerry. You were duty officer, weren't you?
jerry westerby		Yes. Control asked me to man the phones that night. Said someone was doing a special job for the service. He wanted someone from outside he could trust. If anything came in, I was to tell him and only him.
jerry westerby		 Been a bit of a panic, sir.
jerry westerby		Ann? I'm sorry to bother you. Is George back yet?
smiley		You rang my house?
jerry westerby		Just on the off chance you were back from Berlin.
smiley		What did you say?
jerry westerby		Just that there'd been a bit of a crisis. She said you weren't back yet. That was it.
smiley		Go on.
jerry westerby		All hell broke loose - military yelling about Hungarian tank movements on the border, Lacon and the Minister baying at the door. Thank Christ Bill Haydon turned up when he did.
bill haydon		Get out.
jerry westerby		I tried to get hold of you...
bill haydon		I just picked up half a story on the ticker-tape at my club... Tell me.
jerry westerby		Jim Prideaux's been shot.
haydon		Get me the Hungarian Embassy.
jerry westerby		 Yes sir...
bill haydon		You go and tell your Masters what will happen if one hair on Jim Prideaux's head is damaged...
jerry westerby		Any more news on him?
bill haydon		We need to go to his flat. Clear out anything linked.
peter guillam		Haydon heard the news at his club?
smiley		The Saville.
peter guillam		At one-thirty? The ticker-tape wouldn't be running.
smiley		Peter...
peter guillam		Jesus Christ. Haydon? How could he have known?
smiley		It's not him, Peter.
peter guillam		Then how did he know?
smiley		 Because he was at my house that night. With Ann.
old man		Just in case it's of interest, dear. We are observed. Old Filth in the bushes. Not very subtle but there you are...
smiley		Yes. Pleasant enough.
bill haydon		I was just passing, thought I'd call in. Ann was in bed but she insisted on getting up. She said she'll be down in a minute.
jim prideaux		Come in, Roach.
roach		Sir there's a stranger parked down on the road. He's just sitting there.
prideaux		 It's alright, old fella. Don't cry. Nobody ever watched like you, did they? Off you go, now.
roach		Are you going to have to leave?
jim prideaux		I'll be fine. You get back to bed.
control		You weren't followed?
prideaux		Andras Benedek, Hungarian journalist based in Paris.
control		If you're caught, you keep me out of it. You were acting alone, bit of Private Enterprise. Understood?
prideaux		What information?
control		Rocketry. Ballistics. Bit of politics.
prideaux		What else?
control		 Treasure. He has treasure. The name of the Mole Moscow Centre has planted at the top of the Circus.
smiley		Which means I was...?
prideaux		You were Beggarman.
smiley		What did you make of it, Jim? Control's theory?
prideaux		 I thought it was madness. To think any one of you could have been a traitor... madness.
smiley		But still you went? Risking your life for a mission you thought was absurd? Why?
prideaux		 I went because Control asked me to go. It's called doing one's duty.
prideaux		I held on as long as I could, to give everyone else time to get the hell out of there.  Did they?
smiley		 No. They were blown. The story is you blew them to save your own skin.
prideaux		The Mole. Control's crazy theory. I was going to bury that so deep, they'd never get it out of me. Which was a joke.
smiley		Why?
prideaux		Because they already knew. They wanted to know how far Control had got in his investigation.
smiley		What else?
prideaux		Circus gossip. Was Percy's wife still drinking, who was Bland screwing in the office. That sort of thing.
smiley		Did they ask about me at all?
prideaux		One of them did.
smiley		What did he say about me?
prideaux		He had a cigarette lighter. Kept flashing it round for me to see. Showed me the inscription. "To George, from Ann. All my love." He reckoned after Bill's fling with her, she might want to change the inscription.
smiley		 That was well said.
prideaux		He gave me a cigarette.
smiley		Jim?
prideaux		I thought it was my last one.
man's voice		 Do you know this woman?
prideaux		I don't know her.
irina		I...
peter guillam		Who?
smiley		Toby Esterhase.
smiley		He gave him a thousand pounds. Told him he was dead now and couldn't come back. Had to become a Lotus Eater - forget everything that happened - Control's theory, Tinker, Tailor... all of it.
peter guillam		You alright?
smiley		Will you watch my back, Peter? Look out for a solo. Just a feeling I've had.
peter guillam		Yes, George. I'll watch.
ricki tarr		 She said there was a General, work-name Polyakov who was stationed in London. And that Polyakov's real job was to service the mole. He meets him regularly and takes back information the Mole gives him for Karla.  Smiley presses STOP. He presses RE-WIND, watches the tape spool BACKWARDS. He goes too far, presses FAST-FORWARD, watches the tape REVERSE DIRECTION. And, at this moment, we can tell from his expression, a piece of the jig-saw falls into place.
minister		This meeting is not taking place. Is that clear?
smiley		Perfectly, Minister.  There is a house, somewhere in this city, where Alleline and the others meet Witchcraft's London representative. I need the address of that house.
minister		I don't know what you're talking about.
smiley		 You told me to follow in Control's footsteps.
minister		 Well, I wouldn't consider that sound advice, after the bloody mess Control left us with. It's taken Alleline - and, if I may say so, myself - this long to get us back into the race.
smiley		I'm glad you take some of the credit.
minister		That's... that's not possible.
smiley		Made possible. By you. When he steals our secrets he does it under the very nose of the Circus, in the house which you persuaded the treasury to pay for. I'm sure you'll be able to take full credit for that.
minister		 Witchcraft's intelligence is genuine! It's been gold!
smiley		Just enough glitter, amongst the chicken-feed. Control didn't believe in miracles and he didn't believe in Witchcraft. But you were lazy and you were greedy and so you hounded him out of the Circus and you let Karla in.
minister		Oh God... We can't be made to look like fucking fools again! Forget Europe, if we have the black men getting to hear about this on Walla-Wallah News! What if we find the Mole and we move him sideways, some department where he can't do any harm? Is the Kremlin likely to boast about this?
lacon		Not in their interests sir. They need the Enemy to look like a threat...
minister		Well, tell them to play the game. We don't go crowing about their fuck-ups!
smiley		 We are not the prize. We're the bait.
minister		What can we do?
smiley		We have one thing the Mole wants.
ricki tarr		If I go...
peter guillam		You'll go...
ricki tarr		... I want your word you'll get Irina back. Don't care who you have to trade. I want a family. Don't wanna end up like you lot...
smiley		 I'll do my utmost, Ricki.
toby esterhase		What... what's this about George?
smiley		It's about which Master you've been serving, Toby.
smiley		Intelligence has been leaked, Toby. Someone's been taking files from the Circus...
toby esterhase		This is a mistake George, this is all...
smiley		The files were delivered to a Russian attache, weren't they?
toby esterhase		Yes. And yes, I delivered them.
toby esterhase		... and Bill...
toby esterhase		And Roy...
toby esterhase		Things aren't always what they seem. You know that George. Moscow thinks Polyakov's working for them, so, every now and then we give him the odd file to take back to them, just chicken-feed, keep his bosses happy. But Polyakov's our Joe, part of a big operation...
smiley		Operation Witchcraft? Yes, I know.
toby esterhase		Why are we here? Why are we...?
smiley		Who gave you the message for Jim to forget about Tinker Tailor?
toby esterhase		Bland!
smiley		To get rid of Connie Sachs? Westerby?
toby esterhase		Bland or Haydon. I don't remember. One of them. Maybe Percy. I don't know who.
smiley		You're just the messenger? Running between them all. Anything to serve Witchcraft?
toby esterhase		I didn't know. I swear I...
smiley		Are you still a wanted man, Toby?
toby esterhase		George...!
smiley		You picked the wrong side, Toby.
toby esterhase		 George, you've got to believe me. I would never... I'm loyal, George. I'm loyal!
smiley		Give me the address. Where do you meet Polyakov?
smiley		What are the safety signals?
mrs mccraig		There's an air duct. Open and all's well. Closed and you're not to enter.
smiley		Where is the mike, Mrs McCraig?
mrs mccraig		Whenever the gentlemen are meeting I record the session. The tapes are sent back to the Circus.
smiley		If you're at all worried you can call Lacon from the basement phone. Let's try the tape recorder shall we?
macklevore		 Guest from London Station, Monsieur Fourcade.
mackelvore		 The whole service is looking for you, Ricki. They'll skin you alive if they find you.
ricki tarr		 Maybe I want them to find me.  Mackelvore frowns. They reach a door which he opens to reveal a STEEL DOOR beyond. He presses a bell and a hatch in the door slides open and a young man's face appears. This is BEN. He slides open a bolt, a double lock, and lets them into a ...
mackelvore		You can go home now, Ben. Leave the books where they are and put the keys into the machines. I'll be talking to London presently under my own steam.
ben		Okay boss.
ricki tarr		 Ben stays here.
ricki tarr		 Ricki Tarr claims to have further information vital to the safeguarding of the Circus.
mendel		 Tinker...
smiley		 How's he look?
ricki tarr		Read it aloud.
ben		Personal for Tarr from Alleline...
ben		... send further information.
ricki tarr		That's the way Percy boy! You keep stalling. I better warn you Ben, there's some lousy people in this outfit. Don't trust a fucking one of them.
smiley		I'm here, Mendel.
peter guillam		He's here.
oliver lacon		I won't have bloodshed. I want absolute calm!
on guillam		 ... as his nerves and excitement and any hope he might have had of a sense of victory DRAINS AWAY, leaving him with just an odd sense of embarrassment and shame.
smiley		I was assured there would be no coercion.
bill haydon		It's almost funny George. I know the Inquisitors little bag of tricks. I taught most of them. Don't mind the tears. Just a reaction. An over-reaction, if you like. Craddox says I'll be off in a few days. I keep thinking how I'm going to miss the cricket in Moscow.
smiley		If I can.
bill haydon		There's a girl...Would you give her some money for me? Give her a good cover story. If it helps tell her I love her. It's all here.
smiley		Of course.
bill haydon		There's a boy too. Bung him a few quid to shut him up. Take it out of the reptile fund.
smiley		I did have one or two questions. About Prideaux.
bill haydon		Damn it! I got him back, didn't I?
smiley		Yes, yes you did. That was good of you.  I'm surprised Karla didn't shoot him. Or do you think he held back out of delicacy towards you?
bill haydon		Yes, as a matter of fact he did.
smiley		To say what?
bill haydon		So did you.
smiley		Did Karla ever consider having you take over the Circus?
bill haydon		I'm not his bloody office boy.
smiley		What are you then?
bill haydon		I'm someone who made his mark.
smiley		 Is there anything you want me to pass on to Ann?
bill haydon		Oh, that was nothing personal, George, I hope you understand that? Karla said you were good, the one we had to worry about. But you do have a blind spot. 
smiley		Up to a point.
smiley		 "Tailor."
bill haydon		 Best days.
roach		I made you something.
prideaux		I don't want you hanging around here. Keep away from me from now on. Go and join the others.
smiley		Shall we begin?
****Dialogues from script :Titanic.txt****

****Dialogues from script :To_Sleep_with_Anger.txt****

mother		It hurts.
suzie		Don't push too fast! Breathe! The hard part is over. You can see the top of the head.
mother		It hurts. The pain.  It's tearing me.
suzie		Father, give her a hand.
father		Hey, this is too much.
suzie		You do your part.
mother		Can you tell what it is?
suzie		Almost there.
father		It's a junior.
babe brother		Why don't you come in for a while?
harry		I came all the way from Detroit by bus going to Oakland. The bus stopped in Los Angeles. I had to get off and take a rest. I'll catch the last bus leaving at midnight. I'm just too tired to go on.
harry		Good evening. It must be all the different time zones I crossed that makes me feel this weary.
babe brother		Don't pick up the cards if you are not in the game. Did he die?
hattie		Harry, what did you do, rob the graveyard?
hattie		I'm in church.
hattie		Suzie, you still have Joe's number?
suzie		I will have to look for it.
hattie		None of your business.
harry		That is a boy from home, Lulla's brother.
hattie		I was quoting from the Bible. If the shoe fits, wear it.
harry		How many people do you all feed?
pat		I don't know if we could take one in with Rhonda and me at home alone at times.
harry		Oh, I wasn't pointing my finger at you. Hey, you have to think of yourself. A lot of them have all kinds of diseases and will cut your throat while you sleep. There are too many bad people out there.
junior		I appreciate you lending me a hand. That lazy ass brother of mine was suppose to help me.
harry		Well some folks are still waiting for their comeuppance. Don't take me wrong but you can't judge people by how you act. You're a caring person.
pat		Why not? Harry says that's the only way to do good.
babe brother		What is that?
harry		Boy, that is the real South. That is real corn liquor.
flim		What is in the bottle?
herman		There is a fight in every bottle.
gideon		You tappy heads better not tear down my house.
babe brother		It is just a regular card.
pat		He just leeches off your parents. He is a master at wearing out welcome.
junior		Harry is the kind of guy you would love to take out in the woods and leave under a rock.
pat		Where does her get the power to summon all his old raffish friends? They all smell of moth balls.
harry		How old is that boy?
babe brother		Linda, how come you don't see that Sunny puts his shoes on right?
linda		Why don't you wait?
babe brother		I could swear I heard my son call me.
hattie		Everybody who have been associated with Harry end up with pennies over their eyes.
suzie		Good afternoon to you.
junior		I ought to break your damn neck.
harry		I came to pick up my things.
hattie		He dropped dead.
herman		Hattie, you can be so mean.
gideon		How long has he been dead?
suzie		Since this morning.
gideon		What happened to your hand?
suzie		I cut it on an old rusty knife.
gideon		What did you put on it?
suzie		It's healing now.
gideon		I hope you will take care of your mother better than that when I'm gone.
babe brother		Yes.
gideon		How come you're not wearing my shoes?
babe brother		They're too big.
preacher		I wonder how they going to bury this man.
herman		Hattie, your true colors are unbearable. You got some mean ways. Don't worry about the boy getting a burial. He still has some friends left on this earth.
****Dialogues from script :Tombstone.txt****

tombstone		 An original screenplay By Kevin Jarre
fourth draft		 March 15, 1993
captain		It's them, only an hour north.
young rurale		But this is the border.
captain		You saw what those animals did at That rancho.  You think a border Is going to stop me?  No, I'm Going to see them suffer for what They did!  I swear it on my soul!
captain		Turn around!  Fast!  Now!
florentino		He will not kneel.  He is proud.
curly bill		So how'd you like our little Carry-on over at that rancho? Kinda hit the spot didn't it?
captain		Animals!  Butchers!
curly bill		Gracias.
curly bill		Hold up, jefe.  Got a joke I wanna Tell you.
florentino		He say he know you killing him.
curly bill		Now how'd he figure that out?
florentino		He say he is no' afraid, someone Will revenge for him.  A sick Horse.
curly bill		A sick horse?  What the hell...
florentino		Something, I don't know, he talk Fancy, you know, like a priest. Is like, "a sick horse who sits---"
ringo		That's not what he said, you Ignorant wretch.  Your spanish is Worse than your English.  Come on, Let's get it over with.
rurale captain		You go to hell!
ringo		You first.
tom		Looks like you had a party!
curly bill		Oh, we had a big time! The Old Man, Curly Bill, and Ringo rein up and look out at the sun rising magnificently from the desert floor.  The Old man stretches his legs in the stirrups, taking out a whiskey flask.
curly bill		What'd the Messican mean, a sick Horse's gonna get us?  Didn't make No sense.
ringo		He was quoting the bible, Revelations: "Behold a pale horse And the one that sat on him was Death and Hell followed with him."
curly bill		Well now that's a little more Like it.
dake		"Dear Governor Gosper-in re yours directing action against Cowboys, stop.  Beg to inform have Twice sent deputies to serve Warrants on Cowboy suspects, Stop.  Nothing to show for it but 2 dead deputies, stop.  Short of deputizing U.S. Army am at loss-
deputy		 The tall man over there, Marshal. I'm not sure but I think that's Wyatt Earp.
dake		Wyatt Earp?  Oh, right, Dodge City.
dake		Mr. Earp?  My name's Dake, Crawley Dake.  I'm the U.S. Marshal for-
wyatt		Forget it.
dake		Excuse me?
wyatt		I said forget it, answer's no, I Don't want the job and that's Final.  I'm going to Tombstone and Nothin' short of dyin's gonn Stop me.  Good day.
dake		But wait, you don't understand-
wyatt		No Marshal, you don't understand. I'm through with lawing, I'm Through with the whole Proposition.  Forever.  I did my Duty, now I'd like to get on with My life.  That is if you don't Mind.  Jesus.  Good day now.
dake		I see, off to strike it rich, Huh.  All right, fine, wish you Luck.  Tell you this though, never Was a rich man yet didn't wind up With a guilty conscience.
wyatt		Already got a guilty conscience, Might as well have the money too.
morgan		Well how do we look?
wyatt		Hey!  Virgil!  My God!  Morgan!  Hey, Boy!  You look great!  Both of you!
virgil		Wyatt, you remember Allie
allie		Good God, well he better.
virgil		But she doted on the frowner
mattie		Wyatt, I couldn't find a single Store that had laudanum any-
wyatt		Mattie, they're here!  Folks this Is Celia Ann but you can call her Mattie.  Or even Mrs.  Earp if you Prefer.
virgil		Mrs. Earp?  Land O' love, it finally happened!  Mattie it's a Pleasure!
wyatt		Boy, I sure been dreamin' about This.  God!  Since forever!  Wait!
wyatt		There, look at that!  God Almighty
wyatt		Don't talk, just...yeah.
wyatt		All right, now let's go make our fortune. DELETED
louisa		Don't you love their hair?  They All have the same hair.
virgil		Look at him go, will ya?  I tell You, that's the real Wyatt, born In the saddle.
mattie		Oh, he can go all right.
allie		Can he then?
mattie		Rather ride than eat.
virgil		Try to be a lady, will you?
morgan		Give him some good exercise?  Sure Some stud.  Some string in fact. What're you gonna do, race 'em?
wyatt		Hope so.  Clean up with this boy.
louisa		Mattie hon', did you say you Needed some laudanum?  I have a Bottle right here.  Just be Careful.  It's full of hop.
mattie		You're a lifesaver!  Don't worry, I just get headaches sometimes.
virgil		Mighty fine.  Wonder where he Found her.  Same place we found Ours probably
wyatt		Come up to the fire, honey.
mattie		I think I'll just lie down awhile
mattie		Long as I live I'll never Get used to that sound.
wyatt		They're just lonely is all.  Hell, I howl myself sometimes.
mattie		You get lonely?
morgan		Come up, Lou.  Come up here, girl.
louisa		Stop...
wyatt		Look at that.  Busted.  Brand new Money Ward, too.  33 years old And I don't even have a decent Watch.  'Bout time I started Lookin' out for myself.
virgil		Well here we are a family again. Been so long plain forgot how Good it feels.  Want to thank you For that, Wyatt.  All your doin'.
wyatt		We're gonna do it, boys.  Gonna Get ours.  Feel it in my bones. All we have to do is keep our Eyes on that brass ring.
morgan		 Boy, look at all those stars.  Bet You can see every star there is. Practical touch 'em.  Kinda makes You think, you know?  I mean you Look up and you think God made All that but he still remembered To make a little speck like me. Kinda flattering really.  Hey, Wyatt, you believe in God?  No, Come on, really, do you?
wyatt		Maybe, yeah.  Hell, I don't know.
morgan		Well what do you think happens When you die?
wyatt		Got me.  Somethin'.  Nothin'.  I Don't know.
morgan		I read this book, book on Spiritualism...
virgil		Oh, God, here he goes...
morgan		...said a lot of people, when they're dyin', they see this light, like in a tunnel.  They say it's the light leading you to heaven.
wyatt		Really?  What about hell?  They got A sign or what?
morgan		Hey, Wyatt, God damn it, I'm serious!
wyatt		Well that's your problem.  Hey Virge, see anything of Doc while You were in Prescott?
virgil		Hit a streak when we left.  Him And Kate.
allie		 Uh, that woman.
wyatt		I miss Doc.  I miss that ol' rip.
virgil		I don't
allie		Neither do I.
wyatt		He makes me laugh.
bailey		I said that's 500 to you, Holliday.  In or out?
doc		500? Sly boots, must be a peach of a hand.
kate		Here, Doc.
doc		Bless you, darling  Darling!  Are you mad?  You're not Wearing a bustle.  How lewd!
bailey		Oh, for Christ's sake!
doc		Ed Bailey, you look like you're Just ready to burst.  Well call me A fool but I guess I'll just have To call.  Cover your ears, darling.
bailey		God damn son of a...
doc		Isn't that a daisy?
bailey		Just pick up your money and go. Sick of listening to you simper.
doc		Now Ed, are we cross?
bailey		Skinny lunger, your guns don't Impress me.  Wasn't for those guns You'd be nothin'.
doc		Why Ed, what an ugly thing to Say!  Does this mean you're not my Friend anymore?  You know, Ed, if I thought you weren't my friend I Don't think I could bear it.
doc		There, now we can be friends Again.  But remember, Ed, Friendship is trust-so please Don't hurt me.
kate		Touch that gun, I burn you down!
bailey		Oh, my God...
doc		Does it hurt?  A lot?  Good.
doc		Well, good evening then.
doc		I calculate that's the end of This town.  And let's don't bother About the luggage, darling.
kate		I been having the boy at the Hotel pack us up every night Since your streak started
doc		My sweet clever Magyar, so that's Why you're not wearing a bustle.
stillwell		What're you lookin' at?
behan		Newcomers, eh?  Names John Behan, I'm Cochise County Sheriff.  Just Hit town?
wyatt		Just this minute.  I'm Wyatt Earp, These're my brothers-
behan		Wyatt Earp...Dodge City, right?
wyatt		Gave all that up.  Going into business.
behan		Well I'm the man to see.  Besides Sheriff I'm also tax collector, Captain of the Fire Brigade, and Chairman of the Non-partisan Anti- Chinese league.  A man of many Parts.  Got a place to stay yet?  I Also sit on the Townlot Commission.  Got a couple of Lovely cottages coming up for Rent.  Here, let me show you...
behan		The one next door and the one Across the street are vacant too. Same rent and I'll throw in a Good cleaning.  Believe me, you Won't find a better deal within Town limits.
wyatt		Guess we'll take all three.
wyatt		...and easy on the grain, I don't want 'em too fidgety.
morgan		Wyatt, meet Fred White, he's town marshal.
wyatt		Lotta law around here.  Just met the Sheriff.
white		Who, Behan?  He ain't no law, only Real law here's the Cowboys.
virgil		The Cowboys, yeah.  I heard of 'em.
white		Nobody does nothin' without 'em. They're it.  Hell, even the Apache're scared of 'em.  There's A couple right there: Sherman McMasters and Pony Deal.  Can Always spot a Cowboy, they all Wear those red sashes.
virgil		Look pretty rough.
wyatt		Just like any other hard cases. Gotta know how to handle 'em.
white		Well I'm no Wild Bill.  Way I Handle 'em's just mainly live and Let live.  That usually answers But even so, gets kinda spooky Sometimes.  Still somebody's gotta Do it, I mean how the hell else You gonna walk down the street?
virgil		Doesn't anybody raise a stink? The hell kinda town is this?
white		Boomtown.  Wide open.  People Grabbin' with both hands ain't Got time for any law and order. In fact the less law the more Opportunities there are for Makin' money.  Plain fact is the Cowboys're good for business.
wyatt		What about all these saloons?
white		Ah, now that's the real mother- Lode in Tombstone.  Up and down Allen Street, full-blast 24 hours A day, liquor, hostesses, Gamblin', makin' money hand over Fist.  All except the Oriental.  On Account of the element.  Have a Man for breakfast in there most Days.  Regular slaughter house. High-rollers won't go near it. Too bad, nice place.
joyce		What can I get you?
wyatt		Let me have one of those cigars.  Kinda nice in here.  You run it?
joyce		Milt Joyce, owner-operator.
wyatt		Well, excuse me for askin', Milt, But isn't it kinda dead in here?
joyce		You see that bird at the faro Table?  That's Johnny Tyler.  He Barged in here one day, said he Was takin' over the game, started Slappin' customer, wavin' his Gun around, scarin' off all the High-class play.  Only trade comes In here now's just bummers and Drovers, just the dregs.
wyatt		Why don't you get rid of him and Get yourself straight dealer?
joyce		Well sure, neighbor, easy to say.
tyler		You back that Queen again, you Son of a bitch, I'll blow you Right out of that chair!  Somethin' on your mind?
wyatt		Just wanted to let you know You're sitting in my chair.
tyler		That a fact?
wyatt		Yeah.  It's a fact.
tyler		For a man that don't go heeled You run your mouth kinda reckless.
wyatt		Don't need to go heeled to get The bulge on a dub like you.
tyler		That a fact?
wyatt		Yeah.  It's a fact.
tyler		Well I'm real scared.
wyatt		Damn right you're scared.  I can See it in your eyes.
wyatt		Go ahead.  Skin it.  Skin that Smoke wagon and see what happens.
tyler		Listen Mister, I'm getting' tired-
wyatt		I'm getting tired of your gas. Jerk that pistol and go to work.
wyatt		I said throw down, boy.
wyatt		You gonna do something or just Stand there and bleed?
wyatt		No, I didn't think so.  Here, Milt.  Keepsake, hang it over the Bar.  All right, youngster.  Out You go...
wyatt		And don't come back.  Ever.
wyatt		See how easy that was?
wyatt		Well we're off and running.  Just Acquired us a quarter-interest in The game at the Oriental.
virgil		Acquired?
wyatt		So to speak.
tyler		Doc.  I didn't know you were in town.
wyatt		Doc!  How the hell are you?
doc		Perfect, Wyatt.  Simply perfect.
tyler		Wyatt?  Wyatt Earp?
morgan		Going into business for Ourselves.  Wyatt just got us a Faro game.
doc		Since when is faro a business?
wyatt		Didn't you always say gambling's An honest trade?
doc		I said poker's an honest trade. Only suckers buck the tiger.  The Odds are all with the house.
wyatt		Depends how you look at it.  I Mean it's not like anybody's Holding a gun to their heads.
doc		That's what I love about Wyatt. He can talk himself into anything.
doc		Oh sorry, Johnny, I forgot all About you.  You can go now.  Just Leave the shotgun.
tyler		Thank you.
wyatt		Sheriff Behan, Doc Holliday.
doc		Forgive me if I don't shake hands.
behan		So how's Tombstone treating you?
wyatt		Fine, fine.  But I was thinkin', You know what this town really Needs is a race track.
behan		Actually, you know, that's not a Bad idea, send a signal we're Growing up.
doc		Little ahead of yourselves, Aren't you?  This is just a mining Camp.
behan		See how everyone dresses?  Awfully Toney for a mining camp.  No, the Die's cast, we're growing, be as Big as San Francisco in a few Years.  And just as sophisticated.
doc		I can hardly wait.
drunk		You son of a bitch!
johnson		That's right, keep comin', keep comin'...
doc		 Very cosmopolitan.
wyatt		I know him.  That's Creek Johnson.
vermillion		Easy, gents. Private affair...  Wyatt! Doc! Hey!
wyatt		Jack...
drunk		You bastard!
johnson		Yeah, good.  Right about there.
johnson		Hello, Wyatt!  Hiya Doc!
wyatt		What was that all about?
vermillion		Drunks.  Crawfished a bet, called Him a liar.  I saw the whole thing.
doc		 Sheriff, may I present a pair of Fellow sophisticates, Turkey Creek Jack Johnson and Texas Jack Vermillion?  Watch your ear, Creek.
white		'Fraid I'll have to have those guns.
johnson		Fair fight.  We were legal.
white		Sorry, boys.  Gotta take you Before Judge Spicer.
vermillion		Well law and order every time, That's us.
virgil		What kinda town is this?
vermillion		Nice scenery.
behan		That must be the theatrical Troupe.  There's a show tonight at Schieffelin Hall.
johnson		Hey, Wyatt, you goin' to the Show?  Maybe we'll see you there.  Won't we.
white		Yeah, probably.
doc		Well, an enchanted moment
josephine		Interesting little scene.  I Wonder who that tall man was.
josephine		Oh, I want one.
hunt		Hey, Sister Boy!
curly bill		Shut up, Zwing.  Sit here, Billy.
allie		This is so much fun!  We haven't Been to a show since years.
mattie		I hope they're good.
stillwell		 Lady, they better be good.
doc		Kate, you know the Earps.
white		Wyatt, this is Mayor Clum and his wife.
clum		Your reputation precedes you.  I wonder -
wyatt		Not a prayer.  Nice meetin' you.
white		Well everybody's here except the Old Man.  Got the blade, Billy Grounds, Zwing Hunt, Billy Claiborne, Wes Fuller, Tom and Frank McLaury, Billy Clanton's The youngest.  Wild one.  Then the Breeds, Hank Swilling, Pony Deal. Florentino's Mex-breed.  They all Hate Mex, but he hates 'em Special.  Johnny Barnes, Frank Stillwell.  That's Behan's little Deputy, Billy Breakenridge. Follows the Cowboys around like a Puppy.  And the big boys: Curly Bill Brocius, he's the Old Man's Rimrod; the one looks like an Actor, that's Johnny Ringo.  Best Gun alive they say.  He's kinda Different.  Curly Bill's the only One he talks to.  I mean they're All rough boys, but Ringo... I Don't know.  I really don't
barnes		Professor Gilllman?  Oh hell, I Seen him in Bisbee.  He catches stuff.
stillwell		Hey profesor!  Catch this!
gillman		They shot me!  I don't believe it!
fabian		Only thing we can do, dear-be Good.  In any event, at least we Won't have to wait for our Notices.  Exciting, isn't it?  Now This is theater!
curly bill		Prettiest man I ever saw
stillwell		How come he ain't wearin' no pants?
barnes		 That's how come.
fabian		Ladies and gentlemen, the St Crispin's Day Speech from Henry V. To set the Scene, England is Now at war with France. Everything rests upon the battle About to begin.  Henry, the young King of England, addresses his men Thusly: "My cousin Westmorland? No, my fair cousin-"
fabian		"If we are marked to die, we are enow/ To do our country loss; and if to live./ The fewer me, the greater the share of honour..."
barnes		He's got nerve, I'll say that. What do you think, Billy?
breakenridge		Oh, he wonderful!
grounds		Uh-oh, looks like somebody's in love.
curly bill		Let him alone.
fabian		"We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;/ For he today that sheds his blood with me/ Shall be my brother; be he ne'er so vile./ This day shall gentle his Condition;/ And gentlemen in England now a-bed/ Shall think Themselves accurs'd they were no Here./ And hold their manhood Cheap whiles any speaks/ That Fought with us upon Saint Crispin's day!"
curly bill		That's great!  That's our kinda stuff!
stillwell		He's gonna some up short on that one.
curly bill		Know what I'd do?  I'd take the Deal then crawfish and drill that Ol' Devil in the ass.  How 'bout You, Johnny?  What would you do?
ringo		I already did it.
doc		Very instructive
wyatt		But who was the Devil?
morgan		It's that woman from the coach!
wyatt		I'll be damned...
doc		You may indeed.  If you get lucky.
wyatt		Comin' to the Oriental, Virge?
allie		Not tonight! Tonight me and my Old man're gonna have some fun. Get moving, old man!
virgil		Her maiden name was Sullivan.
wyatt		 Better go with 'em, honey.  Here's Where I leave you.
mattie		 No, stay.  Please stay with me.
wyatt		Honey, I gotta start makin' money.
mattie		Oh, all right.
wyatt		Well I guess I don't have to go Right now.  I guess I could stay a little while.
mattie		No, no, I don't want to keep you.
wyatt		No really, I can stay a while.
mattie		Just go.  It's all right.  Wyatt, Really.  Work well.
wyatt		All right, well, good night.
high roller		All right, I'm on fire!  Black Seven, seven stickin' spades. Let's go!
wyatt		I'm your man...  You win again.  Well played, sir. You are on fire.
high roller		Told you.  I'm red hot, I'm Blazin'!  Now, red seven.  Seven Stinkin' diamonds.  Look out!  Five Thousand!  Let's go!
wyatt		Awful lot of money.
high roller		Can't take the heat, get outta The kitchen.
wyatt		You're the doctor.  sad news, friend.
high roller		Damn!  All right, wait a minute...
wyatt		So now we're in the mining Business.  Turning into regular Tycoons.  Gonna call this one the Mattie Blaylock.  Mattie'll get a Kick out of that, it's her maiden Name.
doc		And what a maiden, pure as the Driven snow, I'm sure.
morgan		Hey Doc!  Come on now.
wyatt		Just his style, Morg.  Doesn't Mean anything.
doc		So tell me, Wyatt.  I'm curious. Do you actually consider youself A married man?  Forsaking all Others?
wyatt		Well yeah.  Pretty much.  I mean I Was no angel when we met but People change Doc.  I mean sooner Or later you gotta grow up.
doc		I see.  And what would you do if "she" walked in her right now? WYATT "She"?
doc		You know damn well who I mean. That dusky-hued lady Satan.
wyatt		I don't know.  Probably ignore her.
doc		Ignore her?
wyatt		I'd ignore her.  People can Change, Doc.
doc		I'll remember you said that.
wyatt		Oh, hell...
wyatt		Satisfied?
doc		I stand corrected.  Wyatt.  You're An oak.
white		Since when'd you start servin' Ladies in here?
joyce		Actresses.  It's different.
breakenridge		Here, Mr Fabian, have this table.
fabian		Oh, thank you.  You're very kind.
breakenridge		Mr. Fabian, I've got to tell you, That's the most wonderful thing I Ever saw.  What was that?
fabian		Henry's all right but he's no Match for the Melancholy Dane.  Hamlet, dear friend, the supreme Role of any actor worth his salt.
doc		 Here's a man you should meet, Mr. Fabian.  Excellent character study For you, the real-life actual Melancholy Dane.
fabian		Indeed, sir?  How so?
doc		Well he hems, he haws, he talks Out of both sides of his Mouth-but all on a very high Plane, just like Hamlet.
wyatt		Getting drunk, Doc.
curly bill		Wyatt Earp, huh?  I heard of you.
ike		Listen, Mr. Kansas Law-dog.  Law Don't go around her.  Savvy?
wyatt		I'm retired.
curly bill		Good.  That's real good.
ike		Yeah, that's good, Mr. Law-dog, 'cause law don't go around here.
wyatt		I heard you the first time.
curly bill		Shut up, Ike.
ringo		 And you must be Doc Holliday.
doc		That's the rumor.
ringo		You retired, too?
doc		Not me.  I'm in my prime.
ringo		Yeah, you look it.
doc		And you must be Ringo.  Look, Darling, Johnny Ringo.  The Deadliest pistoleer since Wild Bill, they say.  What do you Think, darling?  Should I hate him?
kate		You don't even know him.
doc		Yes, but there's just something About him.  Something around The eyes, I don't know, reminds me Of... me.  No.  I'm sure of it, I Hate him.
wyatt		 He's drunk.
doc		In vino veritas.
ringo		Age quod agis.
doc		Credat Judaeus Apella.
ringo		 Ecentus stultorum magister.
doc		 In pace requiescat.
white		 Come on now.  We don't want any Trouble in here.  Not in any language.
doc		Evidently Mr. Ringo's an educated Man.  Now I really hate him.
white		See what I mean about it getting Spooky?
wyatt		Curly Bill, huh?  Who was that Other idiot?
white		Ike Clanton, Old Man's eldest Son.  Know he ain't got the stuff, Makes him miserable.
wyatt		Yeah, and dangerous.
josephine		The man dealing faro.  Who is he?
behan		That's Wyatt Earp.  Made quite a Name for himself as a peace Officer in Kansas.
josephine		A peace officer... Impressive man
behan		Yes, very.  And very married.
josephine		Oh, so that's it...
curly bill		I feel like doin' somethin'. Getting woolly.  Hey, Chinky!  Come here a minute...
kate		That's my lovin' man.  Just can't Get enough.
doc		Enough?  Never.
high roller		Hey, is that "Old Dog Tray"? Sounds like "Old Dog Tray".
doc		What?
high roller		You know, Stephen Foster.  "Oh, Susanna".  "Camptown Races", Stephen-stinkin'-Foster!
doc		I see, well this happens to be a Nocturne.
high roller		A which?
doc		You know, Frederic-fucking-Chopin.
morgan		Now that wounds me.  Little tin Swain walkin' off with that black Beauty.  I mean I'm a married man And all but still, it ain't right.
curly bill		Boy, I feel great!  Full of that Hop I got from Chinky.  I feel Just capitol!  You boys go ahead. I'm gonna stick around awhile, Howl at the moon.
white		Curly Bill.  He's over across the Street shootin' out the lights.
clum		This is great, this is just great.
behan		Have you been out in the street? Somebody's got to do something.
clum		You're the Sheriff.
behan		It's not County business, it's a Town matter.
wyatt		Why don't you just leave it alone?
white		No, I gotta do something.  I don't Suppose you'd card-
wyatt		None of my business, Fred.
white		Hey, Curly?  Come on now, boy...
curly bill		Well, howdy, Fred!
wyatt		Maybe I ought to go out there.
doc		You will or you won't.  Don't look To me.  I'm going to sleep.
wyatt		Go wake up Virgil.  Hey Milt, lend me a sidearm, will you?
white		Hand that over.  Come on now.
curly bill		Why sure, dad.  I'm only in fun. Here she is.
wyatt		Put his clothes out.
ike		Turn loose of him.
wyatt		He just killed a man.
billy		He said to turn loose of him.
wyatt		Well I'm not so go home.
ike		Swear to God, Mister, step aside Or we'll tear you apart.
wyatt		You.  Come here a second.
wyatt		You die first, get it?  The others Might get me in a rush but before That I'm gonna make your head Into a canoe.  Understand?
billy		He's bluffin'!  Let's rush him!
billy		Hell, he can't hit nothin'.  He's So drunk he's probably seein' Double.
doc		I have two guns.  One for each of you.
virgil		All right, look out!  Break it up. Go home, all of you, go home now...
wyatt		Come on, you...
curly bill		Crack me back of the head like Some stinkin' bull.  Hell, you Ain't no fightin' man, you're Just a cop.
wyatt		There.  He'll keep till morning
virgil		Keep your eye on that brass ring. Don't let anything side-track you.
wyatt		I know, I need a keeper.
behan		Well I guess you can see, never a Dull moment.  Maybe you should Stay around to see what happens Next.  Who know?  You might find a Future here.
josephine		Maybe even my destiny.
wyatt		...but he says did I actually see it happen and I said, no, when I arrived Fred'd already been shot. So the judge said, can't have a Murder without a witness-case Dismissed.  Can you beat it?  After All that.  Oh hell, who cares, None of my business anyways.
morgan		Boy, I love this game.  When we're Finally set we gotta each have a Billiard room in our houses.
clum		Excuse me, Wyatt, just a moment, Please, I wanted to try and Reason with you.  We still haven't Found a Marshal and-
virgil		Come on Mayor, he already told You no.
clum		What about you?  You were a lawman.
virgil		I'm busy.  We're all busy.  Sorry, Mayor, but you're really barkin' Up the wrong tree.
wyatt		You tell 'em, Virge.
wyatt		You know, I was thinkin', maybe We ought to open our own place. That's the real money.  Build it Up, milk it for all it's worth, Then sell it off for a bundle and Breeze out of this burg with more Money than Croesus and ready to Live like kings.  Let's you and me Take a walk around town, Virge, See if we can scout us out a Couple of nice lots.
virgil		I can't hardly believe it.  It's Working out just like you said, Wyatt.  We're lootin' this burg Six ways through Sunday.
wyatt		Pretty fun too, isn't it?
virgil		Kinda, actually, yeah.  I gotta admit.
virgil		What're you up to today, son?
wyatt		Cat got your tongue?
wyatt		Wait a minute, Virgil!  Where you goin'?
virgil		I couldn't help it, Wyatt.  I Looked at that woman and it was Just like somebody slapping me in The face.  I mean these people're Afraid to even walk down the Street and I'm trying to make Money off it like some kind of God damn vulture.  That's not me, That's somebody I don't even know.
wyatt		Virgil, please.  Don't do this to me.
virgil		It's got nothin' to do with you, Wyatt.  It's-
wyatt		Nothing to do with me?  I'm your Brother for Christ's sake.  God, I Don't believe this.  Oh no, don't tell me...
morgan		Like you said, Wyatt.  We're Brothers.  Gotta back your Brother's play.  Just did like I Figured you would.
wyatt		Listen to me, both of you.  This Is no good.  This is trouble we Don't need.  For the first time in Our lives we got a chance to stop Wandering and finally be a Family.  Do this and you throw it All away.  You saw what happened To Fred White.
morgan		Come on, we're not about pickin' Fights.  Just gonna keep a little Order, that's all.
wyatt		Yeah?
morgan		Like you said, just gotta know How to handle 'em.  Old Fred Wasn't up to it.  We know that We're doin', Wyatt.
wyatt		All right, say you're right, say You don't get yourself killed. There's something else.  It's too late for Virge, he Already rolled his bone.  But it's Not too late for you, Morg.
morgan		What're you talkin' about?
wyatt		All the years I worked the Cowtowns, I was only ever mixed Up in one shooting.  Just one.  A Man got killed.  Wasn't my fault, Just doin' my job.  I don't even Know if it was my bullet that Dropped him, but... I don't kno, It's sort of hard to explain.  At First I just felt funny, you Know, kind of clammy inside.  But When it finally sunk in what I'd Done... Believe me, boy, you Don't ever want to feel that way. Not ever.  You're both makin' a big mistake.
wyatt		This Hooker's ranch?
hooker		That's right.  And I'm Hooker.
wyatt		You seen anything of a man on Horseback leading a black Stallion?
wyatt		Well you must've seen somethin', The trail runs right by your Waterhole.  Oh, I see.  So it must've been a Cowboy, right?  Really got you People treed, don't they?
hooker		Look, Mister, it's fine for you Boomers to court trouble, you're Just passin' through.  Us Cattlemen gotta live here.  Best I Can do's point you up to the cut. That's their roost.
mcmasters		Run for your lives, boys!  It's That great two-gun dog-catcher From Kansas!
wyatt		McMasters, isn't it?  Listen, you Seen a black stallion with-
mcmasters		Look, I got a rule.  I don't talk To lawmen.  Dog-catchers neither.
wyatt		I'm not a lawman, I'm just a Private citizen getting' my Property back
mcmasters		Well in that case, I saw your Horse.  Billy Clanton was takin' Him up to the Cut to show him Off.  The boys're all up there Right now, branding.  And in a Mood.  Still want your property Back, Mr. Private Citizen?
wyatt		So what about you Cowboys anyway?
mcmasters		If I had to explain it you Wouldn't understand.  Just say We're brothers to the bone.
wyatt		Yeah, but some of the things they Say your brothers've done...
mcmasters		There's all kinds of horses, Ain't there?  Same with Cowboys. What they do's their affair.  I Don't preach and I don't judge.  I Ain't no dog-catcher.
mcmasters		You seem like a nice fella.  Like To've know you better.  Had you lived.
ike		Hey, law-dog.  The hell you doin' here?
swilling		How 'bout I just drag you off That horse and eat you blood raw?
wyatt		Where'd you get that horse?
billy		Beauty, ain't he?
wyatt		I asked where you got him.
billy		Where do you think?  I stole him.
wyatt		Look, I don't want any trouble With you but that's my horse and I mean to have him back.  One way Or another.
billy		Come and get him.
wyatt		Look kid, I know what it's like, I was a kid, too.  Even stole a Horse once.  But you can't--
ike		Don't sweet-talk him, make a move.
swilling		Yeah, go ahead, Mister.  Make a move.
curly bill		Give him his horse, Billy.
ike		Come on, Curly!  Don't let him-
curly bill		Shut up. Give him his horse, Billy.
curly bill		Feel bad about ol' Fred.  Just Can't hold back when I'm feelin' Woolly.  Still, feel kinda bad. But now we're square.  Anyway no Use for holdin' a grudge.  I Deserved a rap in the head.
wyatt		Make you a deal.  My brother took Over the Marshal's office in Tombstone.  Got it in his head He's gonna make the place safe For widows and orphans.  You and Your boys stay out of his way, I'll make sure he stays out of yours.
curly bill		Fair enough.  You know I got to Admit, you got a lot of bark on You comin' up here like this.
wyatt		They were all gonna jump me back There.  What ever happened to one Against one?
curly bill		Ain't our way.  We go all on one, One on all.  Fight one of us, you Fight us all.  That's the Cowboy way.
wyatt		And how come you call yourselves Cowboys?  Cowhands ride for the brand.
curly bill		Oh, we ride for a brand all right.  This brand.  How 'bout you?
wyatt		 This brand.
curly bill		We're gonna get along just fine.
clum		I can't thank you enough.  Since You took over there hasn't been a Single problem.  We're finally Becoming a civilized town.
virgil		Nothin' to it.
wyatt		Maybe I jumped the gun.  Maybe Those Cowboys aren't near as bad As they're painted.  You know I Was thinkin', there's a lot of Money in the cattle business...
virgil		Wait a minute, you thinkin' of Getting in bed with the Cowboys?
wyatt		Business is business.  Don't have To love 'em to work with 'em.  Not If there's money in it.
virgil		You are the one, Wyatt.  You sure are.
young rurale		The old one you kill.  This was my father.
stillwell		Old Man Clanton's dead!  Ambushed In Guadaloupe Canyon.  Messican's Got him.
curly bill		All right, first thing's first: It's my outfit now, I'm runnin' The show.  Ringo's number two man.
ike		Your outfit?  I'm next in line.
curly bill		You ain't got enough in your Britches.  Think you can prove Otherwise, go ahead.
curly bill		Anybody else?
curly bill		All right.  Billy, go after Ike And cool him off then go find the McLaurys, tell 'em what happened And keep an eye on things.  Wes Fuller and Bill Claiborne, too. Rest of you come with me.  We're Goin' to Mexico.
wyatt		Oh, hell...
josephine		Well, hello.
wyatt		We've never actually met.  My Name's-
josephine		Wyatt Earp, I know.  I was Beginning to think we'd never Meet.  This is fortuitous.  That Means lucky.
wyatt		I know what it means.
josephine		What is it?
wyatt		Easy now... That mare's in season.
josephine		Oh...  Now she's starting.  How do they know?
wyatt		They know.  It's the scent.  We Better split 'em up.
josephine		I have a better idea, let's run It out of them!
wyatt		Yeah, I'm an oak all right.
wyatt		You're not that crazy, are you?
jospehine		Oh, yes I am!
josephine		That was lovely!
wyatt		You know you almost got us both Killed back there?
josephine		Fun though, wasn't it?
wyatt		You'd die for fun?
josephine		Wouldn't you?  You're laughing!  I Was sure you never laughed.
wyatt		I laugh sometimes
josephine		Yes, but how often?  Tell me, are You happy?
wyatt		Am I happy?  I don't know.  Happy As the next man, I guess.  I don't Laugh all day long like an idiot, If that's what you mean.
josephine		You're a little touchy about it.
wyatt		I'm not touchy, I just, it's a Silly question, that's all.  Am I Happy?  Are you happy?
josephine		Of course, I'm always happy. Unless I'm bored.  That blonde Woman, is that your wife?
wyatt		What about her?
josephine		Nothing... Tell me, what do you Want out of life?
wyatt		Where do you get these questions?
josephine		Just answer.
wyatt		I don't know, make some money, Have some kids, you know.
josephine		Doesn't suit you.
wyatt		How would you know?
josephine		Just doesn't, that's all.
wyatt		Well I ought to know my own mind And I'm tellin' you what suits me Is a family and kids.  That suits Me right down to the ground.  In Fact, that's my idea of heaven.  All right, what's your idea of heaven?
josephine		Room service.
josephine		See?  You're laughing again.  But That's what I want.  Go places and Move and never look back and just Have fun.  Forever.  That's my idea Of heaven.  Need someone to share It with, though.
wyatt		You mean Behan?  Then why are you with him?
josephine		Well he's handsome and he's Charming.  He's all right.  For Now.  Don't say it, I know, I'm Rotten.  I can't help it.  I've Tried to be good but it's too Boring.
wyatt		The way you talk.  Never heard a Woman talk like that.
josephine		Oh look, I haven't got time to be Proper, I want to live.  I'm a woman, I like men.  If that's Unladylike then I guess I'm not a Lady.  At least I'm honest.
wyatt		Well you're different, no arguing That.  But you're a lady all right. I'll take my oath on it.
josephine		What's wrong?
wyatt		I don't know, doesn't make any Sense.  I almost can't look at You.  Like it hurts.
josephine		I know, me too.  What should we do About it?
wyatt		God...
josephine		You know this is adultery.  You Burn in hell for that.
wyatt		Then let's make sure we get our Money's worth
josephine		I must say this certainly has Been an unexpected little Windfall.
wyatt		Fortuitous even.
josephine		And I don't even know your full name.
wyatt		Easy to fix.  Wyatt Berry Stapp Earp.
josephine		And I'm Josephine Sarah Marcus. My friends call me Josie.
wyatt		Josie... No, I'm gonna call you Sadie.
josephine		I hate Sadie.
wyatt		Well you'll always be Sadie to me.
josephine		Always?
wyatt		Getting late.  We better get back.
josephine		So I assume we're regarding this As just a kind of interlude.
wyatt		Look, it's too much of a tangle. I already cast my lot.  I can't go Back and I can't sneak, feel back Enough as it is.
josephine		You feel bad about this?  About me?
wyatt		I didn't mean it that way.
josephine		You know you don't have to sneak. You could stay with me.  I know Things, Wyatt.  Sweet things.  I Could make you so happy.
wyatt		I can't, I'm sorry.  Forgive me.
fly		What mood would you like for this Picture, Miss Marcus?  Any Particular occasion you're Commemorating?
josephine		...all of me.
josephine		Because I'm wonderful.
wyatt		That the bottle Lou gave you? Better go easy on that stuff.
mattie		I know what I'm doing.  Where have You been?
wyatt		Out ridin'.  So... how you doin'?
mattie		I don't know.  I'm all right.
wyatt		Really?  You sure?
mattie		Sure I'm sure.  What is this?
wyatt		Well, I was thinking, we've Already made a pile of money. Maybe we should just pull up Stakes and move on.  And we could Stay on the move, you know?  Just Keep going, see the world.  Live On room service the rest of our Lives.  How'd that be?
mattie		Wyatt, what're you talkin' about?
wyatt		Just thinkin' out loud.  Forget it.
joyce		New singer.  Ain't she somehin'?
morgan		Doc won't quit, been up 36 hours. Clanton came in an hour ago, they Switched over to poker.  Tried to Get him to bed but he just won't Let go.
wyatt		I know.  And nobody can make him.
doc		Wyatt!  Just in time.  Pull up a chair.
wyatt		Been hittin' it awful hard, Doc.
doc		Nonsense, I have not yet begun to Defile myself.
wyatt		 But Doc-
doc		I won't be pawed at, thank you Very much
wyatt		Sorry, sorry...
kate		 That's right.  Doc can go all day And all night and then some. Doc's my man.  Doc's my lovin' Man.  Have another one, lovin' man.
behan		What d'you think of the singer?
wyatt		Nice voice.
behan		That's not what I meant.
ike		Son of a bitch!  That's twelve Straight hands!  Nobody's that lucky.
doc		Why, Ike, whatever do you mean?
virgil		Come on, boys, take it easy.
doc		Maybe poker's not your game, Ike. I know, let's have a spelling Contest!
ike		 I'll wring your scrawny neck for you!
ike		You takin' his part?  I'm the one Was cheated. God damn pimps, You're all in it together.
virgil		Nobody's in anything, Clanton, You're drunk.  Go home and sleep It off.
ike		Get your God damn hands off me! Don't you ever put your hands on One of us!  Don't you ever try to Man-handle a Cowboy!  We'll out Your God damn pimp's heart out! Understand, pimp?
virgil		Don't you threaten me, you Little-
wyatt		Virgil, don't!  Take it easy!  Ike, Just go home and forget it, will you?
ike		I ain't forgettin' nothin.
behan		I saw that look on your face just now. What's between you and Wyatt?
josephine		Absolutely nothing.
doc		Well that certainly was a bust.  I Want my money back.  Come, Darling, let's seek our Entertainment elsewhere.
kate		What's wrong, Doc?
doc		Nothing.  Not a thing.  I'm right As the mail.
wyatt		Get a doctor!  Virgil, give me a hand.
ike		What's wrong with him?
joyce		Lunger.
doc		So what does that mean?
doc		Well, that sounds inviting.
kate		How you feeling, Doc?
doc		Better.
kate		That's good.  I knew it wasn't nothin'.
doc		We must talk, darling.  It appears We have to... redefine the nature Of our association.
kate		What's that mean, Doc?  You know I Don't understand when you talk up High like that.  You mean you Don't want to be my lovin' man no more?
doc		Not exactly...
kate		I'm a good woman to you, Doc. Don't I always take care of you? Nobody cares for you like me.  I'm A good woman.
doc		Yes, I know.  You are a good woman.
doc		Then again, you may be the Antichrist.
ike		Bastards think they can cheat me?
joyce		Nobody cheated you, Ike.  Go home.
ike		And I don't take no mouth from Any bartenders neither.  There, See?  Give somebody a rap on the beezer, get some God damn respect Around here.  Now you tell the Earps and Doc Holliday if I see 'em on the street, I'm gonna send 'em all to hell on a shutter.  You tell 'em that.
wyatt		What the hell's going on?
ike		I want to send a telegram.
virgil		Billy Clanton, Wes Fuller, and Billy Claiborne.  Now there's six Of 'em.  This is like a bad dream.
wyatt		Just stay calm, use your head. It'll be all right.  Just the Same, though...  Guess you better swear me in.
mattie		Thought you swore you'd never Carry that thing again.
wyatt		Yeah, well, I swore a lot of things.
behan		I'm terribly afraid this looks Like the end of the Earp brothers.
virgil		Here they are again.  Look at 'em.
wyatt		Easy, Virge, they're just tryin' To egg us on.
morgan		What're you doin' out of bed, Doc?
doc		What the hell's going on?  I've Had five people walk up to me Saying the Clantons and McLaurys Are gunning for me.
frank		Like to teach those bastards a lesson.
billy		Probably already scared them to death.
tom		You call it, Ike.  What're we gonna do?
ike		 Gimme that.
joyce		Those Cowboys're tellin' Everybody in town they're gonna Clean you out.  They're down in That lot right now behind the OK Corral.
wyatt		Don't worry, Doc, it's not your problem. You don't have to mix up in this.
doc		That's a hell of a thing for you To say to me.
virgil		What the hell're we gonna do?
wyatt		Wait till the liquor wears off. Once they start getting headaches They'll lose interest.
virgil		Wyatt, they're threatening our lives.
wyatt		You'll never make that stick.
virgil		They're carrying guns in town.
wyatt		Virge, that's a misdemeanor.  You Go down there to arrest 'em, Something goes wrong, maybe this Time somebody gets his head Broke, suddenly it's a mess and It won't end there, you'll have Cowboys comin' around lookin' for Trouble from here to Christmas. You gonna risk all that over a Misdemeanor?
virgil		 No, damn it, it's wrong, they're Breakin' the law.
wyatt		 All right, Virge, your call.  But Give Doc the shotgun.  They'll be Less apt to get nervy if they see Him on the street howitzer.
wyatt		Well... Come on, boys.
behan		They're on their way over here.
johnson		There they go.  Look kinda like preachers.
vermillion		Yeah.  Or undertakers.
wyatt		Virge, you're makin' the arrest. You make contact, I'll back you Up.  Morgan'll back me up, Doc'll Keep an eye out for trouble.  And Keep your hands on your guns. They even look like they're gonna Start something, buffalo 'em. Right over the head.
virgil		Wyatt, I know what I'm doin'.
wyatt		 Look at 'em all.  They love it. How in the hell'd we get Ourselves into this?
behan		You don't have to worry about a Thing.  I just went down there and Disarmed them.
virgil		You did?  Great, thanks.  Come on, boys.
wyatt		Oh, great.  Disarmed my ass...
virgil		We've come to arrest you.  Throw Up your arms!
virgil		Hold!  I don't want that!
wyatt		Oh, my God...
ike		No, no, please!  I don't have a gun!
wyatt		This fight's commenced.  Get to Fightin' or get away!
morgan		I'm hit.
wyatt		Behind us!
behan		Come on!
frank		I got you now, you son of a bitch!
doc		You're a daisy if you do!
billy		More cartridges!  Somebody load my gun...
behan		All right.  You're all under Arrest.
wyatt		I don't think I'll let you arrest Us today, Behan.  Maybe tomorrow.
doc		You call that shooting?
fly		 The McLaurys are both dead.  Billy Clanton's just about gone.
wyatt		Guess we did our good deed for today.
wyatt		I'm sorry.  If there was any other-
curly bill		I know.  Just did what you had to. That banner and stuff, that's Just Ike.  Don't worry about it.
curly bill		Don't worry about a thing
wyatt		How you doin', boy?
morgan		Fine.  Better.
morgan		You were right.  It's nothin' like I thought.  I almost wish...
wyatt		I know, kid.  I know.  Me too.
curly bill		Here's to the memory of Billy Clanton and Tom and Frank McLaury.  They went out real Cowboys, dead game right up to Their last kick.  They won their Places at the big table with Davy Crockett and Wild Bill and Old Man Clanton.  They're up there Right now tradin' shots with 'em. And they'll never be forgot.  Not Ever.  Hundred years from now There'll be men settin' around a Campfire, passin' a bottle, Tellin' stories about those boys. They're what you call immortal. And I say God bless 'em.
curly bill		All right, first we hang back, Just bide away till everybody Thinks this's blown over.  Then...
wyatt		Mattie.  What about this?
mattie		 I need it.
wyatt		'Least you admit it.
mattie		Admit what, I'm an opium fiend? No, Wyatt, I just said I need it. I need something to keep me warm At night.
wyatt		Look, Mattie, I know you're-
mattie		You know nothing.  What you don't Know would fill a book.  Jesus, I Feel like it's when you're around I need it most.  You're never Yourself, you never relax.  Never. Everything's so stiff and dead. You always have to keep a rein on Everything, ever yourself.  Oh, You smile sometimes, I've even Seen you laugh.  But there's no Light in your smile for me, Wyatt, nothing to keep me warm. And I get cold, Wyatt.  I get so cold.  What's between you and that Jew woman?
wyatt		All right, look.  I can make it Right, I can make this up to you, Mattie.  I can, I swear.
mattie		Will you go to her and tell her Right in front of me she's Nothing to you?  Right out loud so I can hear?  Tell her she's Nothing, tell her she's nobody, Just dirt?  Will you do that?
mattie		Until you can do that we've got Nothing to talk about, Wyatt. Nothing.  Now leave me alone.
behan		Listen, I want to talk to you.
josephine		Not now.  I don't have time.
behan		 I saw that look pass between you And Wyatt at the fight.  Listen to Me!  You're mine!  Understand? You're my woman and I'm your man.
josephine		My man?  You told Wyatt you'd Disarmed those men.  Do you Actually believe after that I Could see you as my man?  You're Just a dirty little fixer.
behan		You whore!  You filthy whore!
morgan		You don't talk that way to a Female human being!  Not ever!
behan		Look, I don't want to take Advantage of an injured man but You better-
curly bill		So she's Wyatt's slice now.  Looks Like we got another name for the Tally book.
morgan		Dropped him, that was it.  Sorry If I made a worse mess for you.
wyatt		I'm the one made a mess.  Made a Right fair mess of the whole thing.
virgil		Getting warmer.  Guess spring's comin'.
morgan		Hello, Billy.  I say hello, Deputy.
breakenridge		 I don't want to talk to you.  Those Men you killed were my friends. I'm just a nothing, but if I Wasn't I'd fight you, I'd fight You right now.  So I don't wanna Talk to you.
wyatt		All they ever did was make fun of him.
virgil		What d'you want, Ringo?
ringo		I want your blood and I want you Souls and I want them both right now.
wyatt		Don't want any more trouble, Ringo.
ringo		 Well you got trouble and it Starts with you.
wyatt		I'm not gonna fight you, there's No money in it.  Sober up.  Come On, boys.
ringo		Wretched slugs, don't any of you Have the guts to play for blood?
doc		That's just my game.
ringo		All right, lunger.  Have at it.
doc		On three?  You call it.
ringo		Here it come: one-two-
curly bill		Johnny, don't, Jesus!  Come on, Son...  Never mind.  He's drunk.
ringo		I want them spitting blood!
curly bill		Easy, Johnny.  Now ain't the time.  I tell you, boys, even I'm Worried what'll happen once Ringo Runs this outfit!  God have mercy!
ringo		There's no God, there's no devil, I hate the God damn world!  I want To die!
curly bill		Easy, son.  You just need to get Your feet back under you, that's All.  Come on, boy, let's kick South.  Down to the old playground.
curly bill		See son, there is a God after all!
virgil		Gonna be one of those nights.
curly bill		All right, boys.  Now's the time To get woolly.
behan		Easy.  I just wanted to tell you Things're about to start changing Around here.  Lots of so-called Hard cases and tough-nuts swagger Around this town but none of 'em's got a clue about the real play.  None of 'em.
josephine		I don't understand.
behan		You will after tonight.  Bet on it.
allie		God, it's a cold night.  Come up To the fire, Mattie.
louisa		It looks like a woman.
josephine		Please, I know it's awful me Coming here, but listen, I can't Say why, but I think something is-
allie		Now who in... It's another woman.
josephine		No!  Look out!
man's voice		Everybody dies!
virgil		Getting late.  Guess I'll turn in.
wyatt		Bundle up, Virge.  Cold out there.
morgan		That thunder's sure somethin'.
wyatt		That didn't sound like thunder.
wyatt		Virgil?
virgil		Wyatt...
virgil		Wyatt!
virgil		No, no, don't worry, honey.  I Still got one arm left to hug you with.
wyatt		It's all my fault.  If I hadn't been So damn smart, if I'd just... Oh God, Virge, I'm so sorry.
allie		Look, Wyatt, I don't want to talk Right now.
wyatt		Virgil, what am I going to do?
virgil		For God's sake, just leave me alone.
allie		He doesn't want to talk now.
mcmasters		No, wait.  Please.  I know nothin' I say'll fix things but I want You to know it wasn't me.
wyatt		No?  Brothers to the bone, right?
mcmasters		Not anymore, not after this.
morgan		Get down, boy.
wyatt		Morgan, are you crazy?  They're Out gunning for us!  What the Hell're you doin'?
morgan		What's it look like?  They want a Piece of me they can come and get It, I'm not crawlin' into my hole.
wyatt		Morg, use your head.
morgan		I am usin' it, Wyatt.  Been Wonderin' how the hell we got in This tangle.  You know they hit Clum's house, too?  Shot up his wife. His wife.  Who ever heard of That?  Men sneakin' around in the Dark, back-shootin', scarin' Women?  They're bugs, Wyatt.  You Know all your smart talk about Live and let live?  Ain't no live And let live with bugs.
wyatt		I know, I was wrong.  But Morg, Look, we got to get out.
morgan		Listen to yourself, Wyatt.  Lie Down and crawl or you might get Hurt?  What kinda talk is that? That's Virgil lyin' over there, Wyatt.  Our own brother.  Ruined For life.  No sir, I ain't going No place.  You want to go, fine. I'm stayin' right here and have It out with those bastards.
morgan		How much you wanna bet?
wyatt		I just got it fixed.
morgan		You're on.
wyatt		No, no!  Get the doctor!  Jesus Christ!
wyatt		Oh, no, get her out of her!  Jesus!
wyatt		Somebody shut that dog up!
morgan		You were right, Wyatt.  They got Me good.  Don't let 'em get you Too.
wyatt		Will somebody get the damn dog out-
morgan		Remember about the light you're Supposed to see when you're dyin'?
wyatt		Easy Morg, don't think about that now.
morgan		Isn't true.  I can't see a damn thing.
wyatt		Morgan?  Morgan!
wyatt		No, no, get away, get away from me...
josephine		Wyatt...
wyatt		Whore!  Filthy whore!  Get away From me!
doc		Can't you see why he did it?
curly bill		Naw, she's nobody.  Wyatt junked her.
doc		And so she walked out of our Lives forever.
wyatt		I want you to know it's over. We're leaving and we're not Coming back.
curly bill		Well... 'bye.
ringo		 Hey, you smell that?  Smells like Something died.
curly bill		Take Frank and finish it.
stillwell		That's Virgil with the women.  But Where the hell's Wyatt?
wagonmaster		Rest of us're 3 months out of Independece but we're from Carthage, Illinois originally.
wyatt		Carthage, really?  I'm from Monmouth.
wagonmaster		Another Illinois man!  Practical Neighbors!  Step down, Marshal. Have a feed.
wagonmaster		Ain't got law, ain't got nothin'. Only thing between us and the Animals.  Always the way it goes, Though.  Only way to down an Illinois man's from behind, the Dogs don't dare face 'em.  Mr. Lincoln, Wild Bill, now your Brothers:  Illinois men all and All downed from behind by dirty Dogs and Democrats.  Guess an Ordinary man'd be out for Vengeance but I don't figure That'll answer here.  It's a Reckoning you're after.
wyatt		If the Lord is my friend.
wagonmaster		Let not your heart be faint, let Your arm be steel-that's all you Need of the Lord.
wyatt		Know why you're here?
vermillion		Way ahead of you, Wyatt.  You want Us to help you get Ike Clanton And Johnny Behan.  Everybody knows They're the ones to blame for Your brothers.
wyatt		They're nothing.  They're nobody. I want the Cowboys.  All of 'em.  I Mean to break 'em up, drive 'em Out of the territory.
johnson		Are you out of your mind?  What on Earth'd make us-
wyatt		 I'll pay you 500 each in advance And I'll mount you on those.
wyatt		Got a sheaf of federal warrants. Being in the Territories it's up To our discretion how they're Served.  That means we got the Cowboys without quarter.  The Black flag, brother.  No Prisoners, no mercy, amen.
vermillion		 500... Year's wages.  And I never even saw a horse like that.
johnson		You crazy?  It can't be done.
mcmasters		It might be done.  If we hit the Waterholes through the southern Dragoons, the Whetstones and Huachucas, we could take 'em on In pieces, run off their herds.  Keep your money, I'll show you Where those waterholes are.  Just Promise me you'll finish it.  No Matter what happens you'll see it Through to the end.  I'll have Your hand on that.
vermillion		We come through this in one Piece, can we keep the horses?
johnson		Crapped out.  Okay, we're in.
wyatt		The minute we start we'll be Going against local and county Law.  If we fail the U.S. Government won't be able to lift A finger to help us.  Nevertheless I want you to understand we carry The full force and authority of The law of this land.
wyatt		Raise your right hands.  Do you Solemnly swear to uphold the laws And constitution of the United States of America and to protect her citizens to the best of your Ability, even at the cost of your Own life?
doc		Oh... All right.
doc		You know why I'm here.  My Hypocrisy only goes so far.
lucinda		Wait!
lucinda		Your colors.
wagonmaster		Good luck, boys.  And give 'em hell!
lucinda's son		Wyatt Earp, the two-gun man, Whistling death and bloody Murder!  Wyatt the widow-maker, Avenging and bright, purple Poison on horseback with Lightning in his eye and thunder In his heart!  Wyatt and his he- Devils, holy terrors and true, Five black centaurs blowin' fire And quicksilver!  Ride out and Charge and shoot and strike and Cleave and hack and thrust home! Don't let up and give no rest and Never call retreat till the last One's smashed and smote and Runnin' for cover.  Best 'em all And break 'em up and bang their Heads together in a bunch and Give no quarter though they be Ten times ten thousand!
illinois mother		What're you doing?
illinois father		Someday he'll be able to say he Was there when Wyatt Earp rode Out to bring the law.
wyatt		All right, let's wring 'em out!
johnson		Like flyin', son.  Just like flyin'.
pony deal		Maybe they smell a wolf.
spence		 Go up there and take a look.
pony deal		Look!
barnes		Look out!
wyatt		United States Marshals!  Reach!
doc		Say something witty.
barnes		Hey, you can't come-
wyatt		One more word and I'll blind you. Get over there!
mcmasters		I ain't your brother, I ain't None of your damn brothers.  Move!
wyatt		All right, run 'em off.
swilling		Bastard!  Stinkin' bastard!  Like To eat you blood raw!
wyatt		All right, breed.  Dig in.
doc		It appears he missed an excellent Chance to keep his mouth shut.
wyatt		 Felt his liver go on that last One.  Get him to a doctor or he'll Be dead in a couple hours.
mcmasters		Florentino!  He's getting away!
wyatt		Drop his horse.
florentino		I don't kill your brother!  I Don't even know him.  I was only Lookout.  It was money, they give Me twelve dollars!  It was money!
wyatt		A human life.  Twelve dollars.
florentino		No!
wyatt		Look at him.  That's how you'll All end up if you don't get it Through your head: it's over, The Cowboys're finished.  Forever. So tell the others and get out of The Territory 'cause next time I Leave no one alive.  Understand? No one.  You been warned.  All right, burn it!  Everything!
wyatt		Leave that trash where it lays.
vermillion		You know, we might just pull this off.
johnson		Not so sure.  Somethin' tells me It gets harder from here in.  Should've held out for more money.
wyatt		I know that cut.  You mean there's A waterhole near there?
mcmasters		But this time they'll be ready.
wyatt		We'll see about that.
pony deal		Keep your eyes open for Earp's Bunch.  Swear to God, ain't gonna Get the drop on us this time.
doc		They saw us.  Here they come.
wyatt		Wait... wait... steady...
wyatt		Now!
wyatt		Lay on!
pony deal		Run!
wyatt		Come on!
mcmasters		What'd you do that for?
wyatt		So he can tell the story.
curly bill		Easy now, it's only five men. Been havin' it their way 'cause They been surprising you.  Hittin' The waterholes and that Judas McMasters is showin' 'em right Where they are.  Pretty damn cute. But nobody's cute as me.  Next up's Black Draw.  But that Smart Wyatt'll say no, that's Where they'll expect us to hit, We'll hit the one after.  Iron Springs.  That's where they show Next.  Only I'm gonna be there First.  And throw a little party.
doc		Don't touch me!
vermillion		Sorry...
vermillion		You really look awful.
doc		Not half as bad as I feel.
vermillion		Then why in hell're you doin' This?  You ought to be in bed.
doc		Wyatt Earp is my friend.
vermillion		Hell, I got lot's of friends.
doc		 I don't.
johnson		Maybe you ought to have a talk With Doc, Wyatt.  I don't know if He's gonna make it.
wyatt		There's no reasoning with him.
mcmasters		 Next waterhole's Black Draw.  We Could be there by mid-morning.
wyatt		They're wise by now.  Which is Next, Iron Springs?  Yeah, let's Try there, Iron Springs.
mcmasters		There they are.  No herd though.
wyatt		We'll go around that way, come up on foot.
mcmasters		Ambush!  Get down!
johnson		Christ!
curly bill		Hey, Wyatt!  How the hell are you?
doc		Look!
curly bill		Got some boys workin' around Those rocks behind you.  Another Minute or two, gonna have you in A crossfire!  How do you like that?
mcmasters		He's right.  They get set up in Them rocks it's the end for us.
curly bill		'Course you could give yourselves up and we could have a party! Then what larks!
vermillion		Ain't takin' me alive, damn it!
mcmasters		Think of somethin' fast or we're cooked.
wyatt		No.
johnson		What?
wyatt		No.
doc		Wyatt!
wyatt		No...
curly bill		Look at that!  Yeah!  Come and get Some, boy!
wyatt		No...
curly bill		Let me, let me, yeah!  Die, you Bastard...
wyatt		No...
curly bill		Die!  Son of a bitch!  Die!
wyatt		No!
barnes		Jesus Christ!
wyatt		No!
doc		Come on!
wyatt		No...
doc		Wyatt, my God!  You're shot to pieces!
wyatt		No...
vermillion		Yeah, better run, you bastards!
johnson		 How is he?
doc		 I don't believe it.  He's clean!
vermillion		What?  But I saw 'em-
doc		I'm telling you, there isn't a Mark on him.
doc		I'm a man without fear, Wyatt.  I Literally don't care if I live or Die.  But even I can't fight human Instinct.  Somebody suddenly Starts shooting at me, I duck. But you... what on earth were You thinking about?
wyatt		I don't know.  It all happened so Fast.  If I'd had a chance to Think about it I guess I probably Would've been scared but... Swear To God, Doc, I just don't know.
vermillion		Hey Creek, you ever see anything Like that before?
johnson		Never even heard of anything like it.
vermillion		I just thought of somethin' I Never thought about before.  I don't want to go to hell.
vermillion		Talked it over.  We decided we Don't need the money.  Took out 13 Dollars each, though.  Federal Posseman's fee.  That all right?
wyatt		Sure...
johnson		One thing.  We come through this Alive, can we keep the badges?
mcmasters		Where's Wyatt?
doc		Down at the creek.  Walking on water.
ringo		Curly Bill?  He killed Curly Bill?
ringo		He's just a man.
ringo		You see my face, don't you?
ringo		Everybody get this through their Heads.  Wyatt Earp dies.  I'm Running the show now and I'm Telling you, Earp dies.  His men Too.  They all die.  Understand? We're gonna kill 'em.  For what They did to Curly Bill we're Gonna ride 'em into the ground And slaughter 'em like rabbits. 'Cause this is my time, children. This is where I get woolly.
grounds		What d'you think?  I didn't think Curly Bill could be killed.  I'm Tellin' you, this whole thing's Gone sour.  We got hands droppin' Like flies and Ringo's flat out Of his mind.  I mean, hell Brother, you feel like ridin' Against Wyatt Earp?
hunt		Hell no, brother.
grounds		Then brother let's you and me cut out.
hunt		Right with you, brother.
behan		Are you crazy?  It's front page News all over the country.  It's Getting out of hand, Ringo.  If Things don't settle down soon-
ringo		You heard me, Behan.
behan		Ringo, you don't understand-
ringo		No, you don't understand.
ringo		Who cares?  Separate the wheat From the chaff.
behan		What're you doing here, Billy?
breakenridge		Curly Bill was my friend.  I'd Like to come with you.
ringo		Sure, why not?
ringo		I told you it was time to get Woolly.  Now gather 'round, Children, gather 'round.  And Raise your right hands.
mcmasters		That's Ringo out front.  And There's Behan.  Must be 30 of 'em. What the hell... they're wearin' Badges.
wyatt		Mounts're getting jaded.  We're Gonna have to find a place to Rest 'em up.
wyatt		Doc...
doc		Don't touch me, God damn it!  Just Don't touch me!  Come on...
wyatt		Grab him.
wyatt		Horse're pretty well fagged and We got a sick man with us.
hooker		You can put up at my ranch if you want.
hooker		I'm no doctor but he looks pretty bad.
hunt		What's it gonna be, brother?
grounds		I don't care.  Colorado, New Mexico, 'long as we're out of the Territory.
hunt		Just what we need.  Travelin' money.
behan		Robbery.  2 men stuck 'em up and Killed a passenger.  One of 'em Rode a Mexican saddle, the other Had a Mother Hubbard.  Billy Grounds and Zwing Hunt.
breakenridge		Oh, no...
josephine		We're headed for a booking in Denver.  They tried to take my Watch.  He cursed them for cowards And they shot him.  He may've been Vain and an actor but he was Better than all of you.  And Gentler and braver.  I don't Understand any of this, I only Know it's ugly.  You're all ugly And he was beautiful, he tried to Put something fine into your ugly World and you killed him for it. Anyway the ones who did it are headed north.  Not that you care.
behan		Where're you going?  Get back here!
billy		I'm sorry, sir, but we got to Have some law.
ringo		Let him go.  Who cares?
hooker		Had a holdup.  Came her to water Their horses before pushin' on.
wyatt		Sorry about your friend.  And I'm sorry about...
josephine		I forgave you the moment you said it.
wyatt		You did.  Well... thank you.
josephine		I have to go.
wyatt		Wait!
wyatt		Goodbye.
wyatt		Damn... Damn!
wyatt		See how she breezed out of here. Like she had wings.  Funny thing But I can't really remember how She looked.  I can remember parts Of her clear as crystal, her Mouth, her walk, how she shut her Eyes when she laughed, little Bits and pieces, but not the Whole package.  Can't put it Together for some reason.
johnson		Good God, you're really-
wyatt		Cards in spades.  I'm in love with Every second of her life.  Hell, I'll probably love her when I'm dust.
hunt		No fire tonight, son.  Too many Riders out.
hunt		Who's that?
breakenridge		It's Deputy Breakenridge.
hunt		Sister Boy!  Thank God, we was afraid-
breakenridge		You shouldn't've killed Mr. Fabian.  You shouldn't've done That.  It was wrong.  I'm takin' You both in for it.
hunt		What?  You gotta be kiddin'.  Look, Just go home 'fore you get hurt.
breakenridge		Don't want to kill you but I will If I have to.  I'm warning you.
grounds		No, I'm warning you, Sister Boy!
breakenridge		Don't try it!
grounds		Sister Boy, just go to hell!
breakenridge		Sorry.
hooker		...brought 'em in draped over their saddles.  Little Billy Breakenridge.  Sister Boy.  He done It.  So I guess the law's finally Arrived in southeast Arizona.
ringo		Hooker's got around 15 or 16 Hands.  We could take 'em right Enough but it might be a mess. Keep the place bottled up for Now, see if we can figure a way To flush 'em.
behan		It's too much!  It's completely Out of hand!  Governor Gosper's Talking about asking the President to send in the Army! Listen Ringo, you've got to get This over with and you've got to Do it now.  One way or another.
wyatt		We should get moving.
vermillion		Doc's just in no kinda shape.
hooker		Don't have to bother about that. Took a vote.  Cowboys or not, you Can stay here as long as you want. Anyway maybe you done enough.  I Mean you whittled 'em down Considerable, now there's talk of Sendin' the Army in here.  Ask me, You done enough.
mcmasters		He didn't figure on all the stink This is causin'.  Might be he's lookin' to strike a bargain.  If So, he probably figures he needs Somebody like me who talks his Language.  Could be we got him.
wyatt		I don't like it.
mcmasters		Might as well hear him out. Anyways, what choice we got?  But no matter what happens, see It through to the end.  If you don't I'll curse the day I ever laid eyes on you.
ringo		Well hello, Sherm.
mcmasters		You wanted to talk?
ringo		Yeah, kinda, wanted to see if you'd join back up with us.
mcmasters		That what you got me up here for?
ringo		You're a Cowboy, you're a Brother.  Come back, no hard Feelings.
mcmasters		Forget it, Ringo.
ringo		Isn't there anything I can say That'll change your mind?  You're Gonna stay with your new friends?
mcmasters		'Least they don't scare women.
ringo		You're the boss.  One thing, though.
ringo		How you gonna get back to 'em?
vermillion		Why couldn't they've jus killed him?
wyatt		You tell Ringo... just tell him I'll be there.
johnson		Wyatt, are you crazy?
wyatt		I made a promise.
vermillion		Wyatt, listen, you can't beat Him.  You're good and God knows You got the courage, but you Ain't in Ringo's class.  Hell, He's the best that's ever been. 'Cept maybe for Wild Bill.
johnson		He's right, Wyatt.  Ringo could Put five into you before you Could even get one into him.
wyatt		But I'd do it, I'd get that one Into him.  So help me God, I would.
johnson		All right Wyatt, maybe you can. But you gotta die to do it. Understand?  You gotta die!
wyatt		What makes a man like Ringo, Doc? What makes him do the things he does?
doc		A man like Ringo's got a great Empty hole right through the Middle of him and no matter what He does he can't ever fill it.  He Can't kill enough or steal enough Or inflict enough pain to ever Fill it.  And it drives him mad. Sick mad.  Cold and dirty.
wyatt		So what does he want?
doc		What does he want?  He wants revenge.
wyatt		Revenge?  For what?
doc		Being born.
wyatt		Remember how I said it all Happened so fast with Curly Bill I didn't have time to think about it? Well I've had plenty of time To think about this.  I spent most Of my life since I was born not Knowing what I want out of life, Just chasin' my tail.  But now, For the first time I know exactly What I want.  And who.  And that's The damnable misery of it.  I can't beat him, can I?
doc		No, wait, I'll go with you...
doc		I'm sorry.  I'm sorry, Wyatt.  God, I'm so sorry.
wyatt		That's all right, Doc.  Don't worry.
doc		Never got to wear one of those.
hooker		Don't worry.  They want him They'll have to go over us first.
ringo		Only three.  They left somebody Behind.  Let's go take a look.
hooker		What're you doin' here?
ringo		Who's in there?
hooker		It's Holliday.  He's sick.  Imagine He's dyin'.
ringo		Drag him out here, let's have a look.
hooker		I looked the other way when you Did a lot of foul things but I Ain't lettin' you torment a dyin' Man.  Not as long as he's under my Roof.  I draw the line there.
ringo		All right, Hooker.  I'll be back In about an hour.  We'll see how Brave you are then.
hooker		I'll be here.
ringo		Soon as I'm through with Wyatt, Swarm down with the whole bunch And finish off Creek Johnson and Texas Jack.
ike		Get ready.  Soon as Ringo's done We're gonna take care of the others.
behan		Aren't we giving them safe conduct?
ike		Sure we are.  All the way to hell.
wyatt		They're not givin' you any safe Conduct.  Soon as the shooting Starts kick east for the New Mexico line.  Well...
johnson		Wyatt, I... I ain't got the words.
wyatt		I know.  Me neither.
wyatt		Dear God, this is the last Battle.  I worked it out in my Head every which way and I know There's no way I'm comin' through This alive.  You've preserved me This far so I only ask one more Favor: just let me live long Enough to kill that man.  Thy will Be done and there's an amen to it.
ringo		Well, didn't think you had it in you.  Shall we?
dark silhouette		I'm your huckleberry.
doc		Why Johnny Ringo, you look like Somebody just walked over your grave.  Oh, I wasn't quite as sick as I Made out.
ringo		My fight's not with you, Holliday.
doc		I beg to differ.  We started a Fight we never got to finish. Play for blood, remember?
ringo		I was kidding about that.
doc		I wasn't.  And this time it's legal.
ringo		All right, lunger.  Let's do it.
doc		Say when.
doc		Come on!  Come on!
doc		Oh Johnny.  You're no daisy, no Daisy at all.
wyatt		What happened?
doc		Poor soul, he was so high-strung. Afraid the strain was more than He could bear.
doc		Let's go!  My horse is over here.
vermillion		Praise Jesus!
johnson		I'll be dipped in shit.  I will, too.
ike		All right, get ready...
wyatt		All right, what's it to be?  New Mexico's that way.
johnson		Colorado's closer
wyatt		So're the Cowboys.  They're up That road right now, waiting to Jump us.
vermillion		We're the law, ain't we?  Well the Law don't ride around vermin-
johnson		It rides right at 'em.  Like McMasters said, see it through to The end.
doc		I just wanted to see what it felt Like.  Here...
behan		Well I guess Ringo did it.
behan		What?
behan		Oh, no...
behan		Me too!
ike		Kill 'em!  Kill 'em!  It's only Four men!  Why don't you kill 'em?
doc		Well hell, Wyatt.  Wyatt, I want You to meet Father Feeney.  Father Feeney's just been initiating me Into the mysteries of the great And ancient Church of Rome.  You See, it appears my hypocrisy Knows no bounds.
wyatt		How you feelin', Doc?
doc		Rather an obvious question under The circumstances, don't you Agree?  A better one might be how Do you feel?
wyatt		 Hurts.  Hurts pretty bad.
doc		I imagine it would, yes.  So now We can add self-pity to your list Of frailties.
wyatt		All right, Doc...
doc		You think I'm kidding.  You're the Most fallible, wrong-headed, self- Deluding, just generally Benighted jackass I've ever Known.  Yet, withal, even at your Worst, you're the only human Being in my entire life who ever Gave me hope.
wyatt		All I ever wanted was to live a Normal life.
doc		When will you wake up?  You Wouldn't know a normal life if it Bit you in the ass.
wyatt		That's great coming from you.
doc		I played the cards I was dealt, Wyatt.  Your problem is you're Always trying to play someone Else's.  Allow me to tell you the Truth and thus set you free: There is no happiness, Wyatt There is no normal life.  There's Only life, that's all.  Just life. The rest is relative.
wyatt		Then what do I do?
doc		First you can grab that black- Haired woman and make her your own.
wyatt		All right.  Then what?
doc		Run.  Take that girl and start Running.  Run and don't look back. All your life you been running And looking back and just barely Existing and calling it getting By.  This time run and don't look Back and call it living.  Live Every second, live it right up to The hilt.  Live, Wyatt...  Live for me.
doc		Wyatt, please, if you were ever My friend, if you ever had even The smallest feeling for me, Leave.  Leave now.  Please.
doc		Never mind, Wyatt.  I know.  Just go.
doc		Now let's see, Father.  What was That monkey show you were talking about?
father feeney		You mean Extreme Unction?
doc		That's it.  Better start that ball rolling.
doc		I'll be damned...  This is funny.
josephine		I know, it's-
josephine		Wyatt!  My God...
wyatt		Did you ever see the sun come up Over the Rockies?  It hits all of A sudden and below there's California and you swear you're Looking at heaven.
wyatt		I have nothing left.  I have Nothing to give you.  I have no Pride, no dignity, no money.  I Don't even know how we'll make a Living.  But I promise I'll love You every second of your life.
josephine		Don't worry, Wyatt.  My family's rich.
wyatt		There.  It'll come up over that ridge.
passenger		What's the commotion?  Who are they?
wyatt		Get ready, here it comes!  Here it comes!
****Dialogues from script :Tomorrow_Never_Dies.txt****

bond		There has to be an easier way to earn a living.
bond's voice		 Seven, in position.
tanner's voice		Roger, Seven.
admiral roebuck		- I'll be sure to acknowledge 007's 'assistance' in my report to the Prime Minister. But this is, still, a naval operation.
general bukharin		'In a joint operation, someone's nose always gets put out of joint.'
tanner		 A regular terrorist swap meet. Death at discount: Two Chinese Long March Scuds, a pair of Soviet A-17 attack helicopters -
bukharin		 Stolen -
tanner		And the crates look like American M-16 assault rifles, Chilean antipersonnel mines, six French Exocet missiles, and 75 - no maybe a hundred - kilograms of Czech made C-4 Semtech explosive.  Something for everyone. Fun for the whole family.
tanner		 One to seven: Deal the face cards.
tanner		Gustav Meinholtz. Neo-Nazi, former East German STASI agent. Ties to the Beider-Meinhoff gang.  Aces high, seven. Bid to the east.
tanner		Vilko Barkoviac. Bosnian war criminal; thought to be operating freelance out of Teheran.  Full house, seven. Bid to the North.
tanner		Sitoshi Isagura. Japanese religious fanatic. Wanted for the Tokyo subway -
admiral roebuck		 Tell your man to drop back. We're initiating plan B -
admiral roebuck		- Thank you, M. But this is more than your man can handle.  Are we in agreement?
bukharin		 - Yes. Yes.
admiral roebuck		Command to Nelson: Authorization to fire.
captain		Weapons authorized. Prepare to fire. On my count: Five. Four. Three. Two -
firing officer		Cruise missile away -
admiral roebuck		I appreciate your assistance, M. But this is now a military operation.
tanner		One to seven: Exit target area. Repeat -
bond's voice		Seven to one. Negative. Wait.
tanner		Oh, no.
tanner		 Kim Dae Yung. North Korean Nuclear specialist.
tanner		 I don't know. He's not in the database -
bukharin		 ... We usually... Transport... Weapons grade uranium.
tanner		Maybe. Maybe not.
admiral roebuck		It's too late -
tanner		One to seven - one to seven -
bond		Negative, one. NOT YET.
tanner		Soviet SB-9 nuclear torpedo. Yield, one kiloton.
tanner		Yes.
admiral roebuck		 Jesus. Can't you people keep anything locked up?
general bukharin		We didn't know it was missing.
tanner		God help him.
bond's voice		Seven to base. I have a full house. Your bid.
bond		By the way: Thank the General for all his "assistance." Over and out.
bond		 ... And what do you call these?
jenny wu		Ja-shwa tsway. These are lips.
bond		Indeed they are.  Deadly little things.
bond		And what do you call these? The Gang of Two?
jenny wu		 Stop it!
bond		I was just getting to the interesting part!
jenny wu		We've already done the interesting part. Do you forget?
bond		Remind me.
jenny wu		Sakwa!
bond		Is that Mandarin, or Cantonese?
jenny wu		Mandarin. You jerk.  I'm late. I have to get dressed.
bond		 Hello.
moneypenny		Hello, James. I hope I'm interrupting something important.
bond		Not at all, Moneypenny. I was just brushing up on a little Chinese.
moneypenny		I'm sure she is, James. But I'm afraid you'll have to 'kiss off' the rest of your lessons this afternoon.
bond		 Moneypenny... Here I was, finally getting a feel for a new tongue -
moneypenny		Four o'clock. M will meet you in the conference room.
bond		4:30. It may take me a little longer to wrap things up here.
moneypenny		Four o'clock. Don't be late.
bond		 Tsi tien, Chien-penny.
moneypenny		Ah, James. You always were a cunning linguist... Au revoir, mon cher.
moneypenny		Don't ask.
student		Good afternoon, Professor Wu.
jenny wu		Good afternoon.  Are you sure you can't stay for the lecture?
bond		I can't. But I did enjoy the dress rehearsal.
jenny wu		Tsi tien, Mr. Bond.
bond		Tsi tien, Professor Wu.
hnn anchor		You're watching HNN, the Harmsway 24 hour news network. Coming up:  A special report on the situation in Hong Kong, since the Chinese take- over from Great Britain.
bond		Nothing like a little imperialism to promote loyalty among the faithful.
bond		Yes, M.
bond		Interesting presentation.
dominique		Interesting video tape.
bond		They point, I shoot.
dominique		 Do you have a pen? I just got promoted and don't have my new cards yet.
bond		Of course.
dominique		... Does this do anything?
bond		Depends what number you write.
bond		Married?
dominique		Happily.
bond		... Kids?
dominique		Three. You? Married?
bond		No.
dominique		 I didn't think so.
dominique		Here. I gave you my assistant's phone number. If it's urgent, she knows where to reach me.
bond		Thanks.  Take care -
dominique		You too.
bond		Moneypenny! We've got to stop meeting like this. They may be on to us.
moneypenny		Hello, James. Enjoy your meeting?
bond		In the darkest moments, it's what I live for. Especially since I've heard how much you like to watch... On the hidden camera.
moneypenny		By the way, James: Ordinarily I would never ask, but... Weren't you and that Colonel once stranded on a raft for two weeks in the Sargasso Sea?
bond		Moneypenny! How indiscreet! Have you ever known me to kiss and tell?
moneypenny		Actually, I've never known you to do either... But -
bond		- We all want what we can't have?
bond		What - no lust for adventure?
moneypenny		No, 007. It's just that I've learned from personal experience - that when we get what we want -  Somehow the reality is never as... Satisfying as the fantasy.
moneypenny		Don't keep M waiting.
bond		Of course.  Minister Johnstone.
bond		 Only what I read in the newspapers.
minister johnstone		 His newspapers?
bond		 British media mogul. Born in Hong Kong; controls newspapers, TV, radio, cable, satellites; books, magazines, movies, computer software. Theme parks.
bond		'Able to topple governments with a single story' - as he says in his press.
johnstone		 Exactly.
bond		... What's Harmsway done?
minister johnstone		A rumor - from an anonymous source -
minister johnstone		Hearsay. Idle chatter from a source you can't identify - who insists on talking only to 007. Nothing but loose talk and innuendo.
minister johnstone		More scurrilous, unsubstantiated gossip.
bond		Perhaps. But it does explain how an ex-KGB agent turned illegal-arms dealer is suddenly portrayed as a long-time friend of the people.  If you believe what you read in the papers.
minister johnstone		 Need I remind the two of you that Elliot Harmsway - Sir Elliot Harmsway - is directly descended from the Earl of Aberdeen? That his Scottish ancestors practically invented Hong Kong - and out of sheer gratitude, Queen Victoria herself named the port "Aberdeen Harbor" in their honor?
bond		Of course.
bond		 ... Didn't we once investigate Harmsway?
minister johnstone		Not to mention the chaos it caused at Whitehall when his newspapers began screaming for the recall of the sitting government.
bond		How will I meet the informant?
bond		I understand.
minister johnstone		 There is one last thing, 007: Elliot Harmsway is vital to the economic interests of this nation. He's also a major contributor to the party. I expect him to be given every consideration.
bond		Political considerations?
minister johnstone		To the best of my recollection, Mr. Bond, I suggested no such thing.  In fact, I was never here.
bond		.... I hate to ask, but... Did you ever think you'd miss Communism?
bond		Hopefully, it won't get that far.
bond		Okay, Saunders. What is it this time? Rocket in the leg? Machine pistol in the arm?
saunders		Q's retirement party. I'd just put the knife into the cake, and -
bond		Come on. I know better than that -
bond		It must do something.
saunders		Well... If you insist.
bond		The die is cast.
saunders		Now pay attention, 007. We haven't much time to demonstrate your new Q toys.
bond		How is old Q?
saunders		Gone fishing.
bond		Fishing?
saunders		Big game fishing.  Sonar torpedoes. Retirement gift from his friends at the CIA.
saunders		In the meantime, perhaps this will spark your interest.  Cigarette lighter. Thumb here, press here -
bond		Saunders, I've lit cigarettes -
saunders		Not from forty feet.
saunders		The disposable lighter also contains a small self-detonation charge  Depending on who - or what - you wish to dispose of.
bond		... Shoelaces?
saunders		Plastique explosive shoelaces.  Cut them to regulate the size of the blast; totally harmless until you attach the detonator hidden in the heel of your shoe.
bond		 Perfect way to tie up a... 'Knotty' problem?
saunders		 And a code breaking microprocessor here. Swipe it through any card reader - anywhere - you're in.
bond		Does it work on cash machines?
saunders		It was an authorized test. I returned the money.
bond		 I see...
saunders		 Finally, your new watch: Blue laser here for signaling or burning through locks; press this button, the sweep hand becomes a Geiger counter.
bond		 If you can't do the time, don't do the crime?
saunders		 Oh. I almost forgot. There is one last thing: Before Q retired, he asked that I give you one other protective device.
bond		A wedding band??? What am I supposed to be able to do with this?
saunders		I believe Q's exact words were:  "Hopefully, nothing."
bond		...I'll give you a ring from Venice.
bond		Till death do us part.
woman		Buona sera, signore -
man		Vino?
masked woman		I may have been followed. Meet me at the Church in five minutes!
bond		Looking for someone?
paris		Hello, James.
bond		Paris?!? What are you doing here?
paris		Is that any way to say hello?
bond		I thought your specialty was good-bye.
paris		Oh, James. I've missed you -
bond		 Is this another one of your games?
paris		Stop it! You're hurting me! Can't you just be nice?
bond		I've got half the British government breathing down my neck. I don't have time for your nonsense.
paris		Don't you even miss me? Didn't I mean anything to you?
bond		Nothing.
bond		What about Elliot Harmsway? Or is this just another one of your stunts?
paris		 You've got to help me, James. I'm sorry. I'm sorry for everything. I know I was wrong - but you've got to protect me. I know you still love -
paris		Do you feel better now?
bond		 Do you?
bond		What about the uranium?
paris		It's on the boat. He's holding a press conference tomorrow.
paris		I'm so sorry, James. I promise, I'll never leave you again.
bond		 Shhhhh...
paris		Just hold me.
bond		How do you know Harmsway?
paris		Kiss me.
paris		Bastard! Leave me alone!
stamper		Who is he?
paris		Nobody. Just some drunk. Leave him alone -
stamper		 Take her to the boat.
bond		 So that's how he does it.
bond		Prego, prego. Permissio.
tourist		Grazie.
bond		Grazie -
bond		He fought hard...  But the case was terminal.
bond		You've confirmed all the legal details with M?
bond		Let's go over this one more time.
bond		And you'll wait until after the press conference - and everyone is gone - before you board the boat and arrest him.
harmsway		...And so, it's somewhat fitting that we are here today... To christen this environmental research boat in Venice - - 'Venezia' - the port where Marco Polo sailed forth to explore the world's great uncharted oceans...  That 2/3 of the earth's surface where the sharks are not working members of the press.
harmsway		With our six custom designed sea-bed coring drills, we will probe the long-term effects of pollution; our sonars, radars, and research labs will study the wind, the water, and the sea life that so dearly feeds us.
harmsway		And so, in the spirit of international cooperation - thanking my good friend, Valentin Zukofsky - the newly elected President of the Ukraine for all his assistance -
harmsway		I give this boat to mankind - selflessly - in pure charity asking nothing for myself... But the cable TV rights.
harmsway		Miss Venice? If you'll do the honors -
harmsway		Now I'll take some questions from the press - even the few of you who aren't on my payroll.
harmsway		Actually, my first choice was 'No Comment.' So if someone asked where I was, I could truthfully respond 'No Comment.'  Over there.
harmsway		 No comment.
guard		Level one, secure.
harmsway		The maiden voyage begins tonight. I have some business in London - but the ship will sail down the Nile, across the South China Sea, stopping in Australia, winding up in San Francisco.
valentin's voice		Mr. James Bond!
bond		Valentin. What an unpleasant surprise.
valentin		What is it that brings you to Venezia, Mr. Bond? Business -  Or somebody else's business?
sofia		Dimitri!!! You promised I could go shopping!!
valentin		 So? Go!
sofia		I need money.
valentin		Here. Take an inch.
valentin		Come. Let me buy you a drink. It's free.
valentin		 And you?
bond		One.
bond		I must say, Valentin, capitalism seems to be treating you well.
valentin		 Off the record.
bond		Of course. If you can't beat the government, you might as well own it.
valentin		Wait - I want you to meet a friend of mine.  Elliot! Elliot! Come here.
valentin		Elliot Harmsway, I want to introduce you to an old friend -
bond		 The name is Bond. James Bond.
harmsway		Always nice to meet one of her Majesty's fellow subjects...  Especially one with such distinguished friends.
bond		You might say I've always been one of Mr. Valentin's biggest followers.
valentin		 'Biggest followers?' He's practically made a career' of it!!
bond		It's a beautiful boat, Sir Elliot. Practically glows in the dark.
harmsway		 I want you to meet my wife.
harmsway		Paris Harmsway, allow me to introduce you to James Bond.
harmsway		But then... I believe you two have already met.
valentin		I think I suddenly remembered an urgent meeting in Moscow.
harmsway		My friends, there's been a terrible mistake.  Come. Let me show you.
bond		Paris -
paris		Leave me alone! He's going to kill me!!
bond		Why didn't you tell me? Why wasn't it in our files?
paris		 You've got to protect me!
bond		Go to my hotel room. I'll be there in twenty minutes.
paris		Just - say it. Say it just once.
bond		 One thing at a time. I'll see you in twenty minutes. Go.
harmsway		I believe this is what you're looking for, Colonel.
harmsway		Is it uranium? Absolutely. But watch -  It's depleted uranium! Completely safe! A child could sleep on it.
harmsway		I received it from the Russian government - a by-product of their nuclear arms program - in the hopes that I could create tools for oceanographic research.  It's what I was talking about: 'Swords into plowshares'! The Sprit of International Cooperation!
harmsway		Please. No harm done, Don Franco. Go upstairs, and enjoy the reception.
harmsway		Oh - Mr. Bond. One minute.
harmsway		I hope you've enjoyed this little charade.
bond		Which part? The Colonel's? Or yours?
harmsway		 It's deadlier than uranium.
bond		 We'll see about that.
harmsway		Aren't you late for a meeting?
bond		The Danielli. Presto!
yung		That was too close.
harmsway		Don't worry. Mr. Bond will get the message. So will his boss.
harmsway		I'm going to the plane. Tell the captain to set sail at once.
bond		Paris? Paris?
navigator		We've cleared Hong Kong harbor, sir.
captain		Position?
gps officer		Two-two, zed-three, one-five north; a hundred fourteen degrees, five minutes, ten seconds east.
captain		Mark.
gps officer		Locked on satellite, sir.
captain		Set course, two-ten degrees, south south east.
navigator		Coming about, sir.
captain		Orders from London: For the next ninety-six hours, we're to run on full radio silence. Double watches, full alert.  We're to send one encrypted positioning burst to London every six hours - otherwise, zero electronic emissions.
first officer		Yes, sir!
captain		I'll be in my cabin until oh-six- hundred hours.
second officer		Captain leaving the bridge.
first officer		Attention all hands. Now hear this...
engineer		Check the engine baffles; rig the generators for shielded operation.
communications officer		Communications set to receive only, sir.
rating		Radar switched to passive mode; sonar re-set to low-power operation.  You couldn't find our signature with a magnifying glass.
first officer		Let's hope so.
second officer		Looks like we're in for a long, uncomfortable trip.
first officer		We'll all breathe a lot easier when we get this cargo back to London.
harmsway		Good morning, Gentlemen. I'm sorry to bring you here under these circumstances, but  Considering our meeting was already scheduled, this was a happy coincidence.
number one		Sir Elliot: The entertainment division is releasing three new animated children's movies this year.  We anticipate revenues of 3.1 billion dollars.
harmsway		Excellent, Number One. Build a better rat-trap, and the world truly will beat a path to your theme park.  Number Two?
number two		As you're aware, Sir Elliot, our software division has introduced a new computer operating system, Gates '99. 
harmsway		Outstanding, Number Two.  Who's ahead in the American elections?
number five		The Democrat, sir. By nine points.
harmsway		Maybe it's time to publish that story about his sex life. Even things up. A close race is always better for our TV ratings.
number five		Consider him slimed, sir.
harmsway		Splendid. Next...  Number Three. Your report?
number three		I regret to inform you, sir, that Saddam Hussein is still demanding a bonus for his role in the Gulf War.
harmsway		...Haven't we already paid him for his services?
number three		Yes, sir. But he still feels his people should share in the increased profits of our news division. He has proposed an additional 500 million dollar payment.
harmsway		... And there's no truth that 10% of that money will go into your Swiss bank account?
number three		No sir! I swear! This is not true!!
harmsway		You disappoint me, Number Three.
number three		Please sir. Please -
harmsway		...But because I am a just man, I've decided to give Mr. Hussein what he deserves.
harmsway		Mr. Stamper will escort you to the plane.
number three		 Thank you sir! Thank you!
harmsway		Good-bye, Mr. Azziz.
harmsway		Let's proceed with new business.
harmsway		Gentlemen: In exactly 36 hours, we are going to initiate phase one of the word's most perfect crime: The biggest theft in the history of mankind.  Right here. In the Strait of Malacca.
stamper		Gum?
number three		Thank you! Thank you so much. You must thank Sir Elliot for me.
stamper		 Here. Something to read on the plane.
stamper		Bye-bye.
navigation officer		... This doesn't make sense. What's our heading now?
helmsman		Zero one three. Due north.
helmsman		We're on course again.
first officer		Can't see a damn thing in this fog.  Rating: What have we got?
rating		A passenger ferry and two freighters broadcasting on low-band -
communications		And two small fishing boats about 30k north. No radar, but we've identified their engine signatures.
first officer		 What's wrong?
helmsman		About every ninety seconds, the auto- pilot jogs us to the west.
helmsman		Then re-sets us to the north.
first officer		Not in the Strait.  How's our position?
navigating officer		According to the satellite, we're exactly on course.
first officer		Did you check the auto-pilot?
helmsman		The back-up does the same thing.
first officer		Check it again. What about the global positioning satellite? Could there be something wrong with the signal?
gps officer		Two words: Im-possible.
first officer		How is it now?
helmsman		Seems to be back to normal, sir.
sonar operator		I have something off the port bow!
first officer		A dead head.  Muncy! Engines to half!
helmsman		Aye-aye sir. Engines to half.
first officer		 Chew up a log like that in the propeller, you end up with enough paperwork to go from here to London. Twice.
communications officer		I'm getting an electrical emission, sir! Extremely close. Bearing 240 -
first officer		Punch up the radar -
radar operator		I've got it, sir. A large craft - XX,OOO tons. Range -  200 yards? It's anchored in a cove!
first officer		That's impossible! We're in the middle of the channel!
junior officer		Breakers off the port bow! We're heading for shore!
sonar officer		Sir -
first officer		 Full stop!!! Call the captain!
sonar officer		Sir!
first officer		 What?!?!
sonar operator		The log is moving!
senior operator		 We've been hit! We're taking water!
damage control		Flooding in the engine room!
first officer		Get me damage reports! Start the pumps!
the captain		What the hell is going on?!?
first officer		 I think we've been holed, sir!
the captain		On my way!
helmsman		The engines are gone!
damage control		Flooding on D deck!
first officer		Sound the general alarm! Seal all compartments!
systems officer		We've lost power!
first officer		Go to back up generators!
damage control		Flooding on C-Deck!
first officer		Where the hell are those generators?
systems engineer		Coming up, sir!
first officer		Get those pumps working!
systems control		The back-up is gone!
damage officer		Flooding up to B-Deck!
helmsman		We can't hold out much longer, sir!
first officer		Where the hell is the Captain?!?!
helmsman		Slipping to stern!
damage officer		All major compartments flooded!
first officer		Abandon ship! Break radio silence! Send our position!
communications officer		 What's our position?
gps officer		 One hundred degrees, thirty-one minutes, and seven seconds East, by two degrees, twenty-nine minutes, ten seconds, North.
sonar operator		Six. That's it? Only six of us?
cook		Most of the crew never made it to their life jackets. The Captain?
sonar officer		 The First officer stayed on the bridge.
crewman		Hey - look! Over there!
harmsway		Lovely night for a shipwreck, isn't it?
stamper		We've decoded their last transmission.
harmsway		Perfect. They'll be searching miles from here.  Time for phase two. You can get the men in the water.
yung		You heard him. Get the men in the water!
woman		I can't believe it took us so long to finally get together! What exactly do you do for the government?
bond		 You might say... 'Public relations.'
woman		How fascinating! I bet you meet all the most fabulous people.
bond		Moneypenny! You're early. You weren't supposed to call until -  Yes. I understand. Twenty minutes.
minister johnstone		Good evening. I've just spoken with the Prime Minister at the economic summit in Tokyo; he's expecting a full update within the hour.  For those of you still unaware, some forty minutes ago -
admiral roebuck		 This is an internal affair that should be handled strictly by the officers of her Majesty's Royal Navy.
minister johnstone		 Admiral, are you suggesting -
bond		Sorry I'm late -
admiral roebuck		 Yes. Of course.
bond		I've looked forward to meeting you.
minister johnstone		As I was saying: Approximately forty- five minutes ago, we received an abandon ship signal from the H.M.S. Indomitable.  Looking at these infrared satellite images - provided by Mr. Tanner of MI-6 -the ship is presumed lost here, just south of Kuala Lumpur, where she broadcast her last position.
stamper		Divers approaching the hull.
diver		 It's titanium. we can't cut through.
stamper		I'll do it.
harmsway		Gentlemen: I do believe we've struck gold... Four minutes ahead of schedule.
minister johnstone		 What is it? The equivalent of ten billion US dollars???
treasury official		 Give or take. Depending on today's currency rates -
minister johnstone		 What the hell was the gold doing on that boat?
admiral roebuck		We were bringing it back from Hong Kong. Under orders from the Treasury.
treasury official		During the cold war, we stored a third in America, and another third in Hong Kong - in case of a nuclear attack. And with the turn-over of Hong Kong to the Chinese -
minister johnstone		Why wasn't the ship protected?!?! Why was it sailing without radar?
admiral roebuck		I resent your tone, sir. I have men who are missing -
minister johnstone		And I have the entire British economy to worry about.
bond		 Obviously, MI-6 was not involved in this operation. But I have to defend the Admiral.
minister johnstone		 At least we know where the gold is. When are the recovery ships due?
admiral roebuck		36 hours. They've already sailed from the Persian gulf.
minister johnstone		I expect to have that gold recovered in 36 hours. Until then, I'm imposing my own electronic silence: For the sake of the economy, not a word to NATO, the press, the CIA.  ...And so long as Commander Bond here seems to be such an expert on these matters, I want him to go along as an observer. Are we agreed?
roebuck		Yes.
bond		Yes.
harmsway		Remember the golden rule, Mr. Stamper: He who has the gold, rules.
harmsway		Is the helicopter ready?
stamper		Fueled and waiting.
harmsway		Good. We have an appointment in Hong Kong.
bond		I have an excellent teacher.  'Make sure you wear the uniform'?
bond		It doesn't quite add up.
bond		The infrared satellite images. No heat, no flame, no explosion. If that boat went down where they said it did, there should have been some residual heat reading on the surface.
bond		A three-thousand ton frigate doesn't just vanish into thin air.
bond		... Didn't Elliot Harmsway just move his headquarters to Kuala Lumpur?
general li		And that is the fifth document. With your counter-signature, the sale will be complete.
harmsway		General Li: My young associate here has just informed me that if I waited a year, I could perhaps receive a higher price for this building.  He has great faith in Hong Kong. As did my ancestors. With obvious results.
general li		...Most eloquently put, Sir Elliot.
harmsway		Thank you, General Li. Now I'll just sign this last document -
general li		Sir Elliot! Red ink -
harmsway		Of course! How foolish. More bad luck. I'll just borrow yours -
harmsway		An old Chinese toast to our friends...
harmsway		Confusion to the enemy. In 48 hours, that building - and all of Hong Kong around it - will cease to exist.
crewman 1		Sounding: Bottom is thirty fathoms.
crewman 2		Nothing. Negative bounce.
bond		We should be right over it.
operator 2		Wait - I'm getting something.
bond		Where? What is it?
operator 2		Not sure yet -
operator 2		The Shinjuku. Japanese troop carrier. World War II.
bond		Let's make another pass.
bond		Get rid of them.
harmsway		Morning, morning all. What have we got?
executive secretary		The Canadian Prime Minister wants to set a lunch -
harmsway		Pencil it in for the next trip -
executive secretary		The American presidential candidate called to complain about that sex story -
harmsway		Send him a $10,000 campaign contribution, and explain I have no control over what my journalists write -
executive secretary		Your bankers want an answer about the Brazilian TV stations
harmsway		No -
executive secretary		The Queen invited you to dinner -
harmsway		Yes -
executive secretary		And the 9:30 news meeting is waiting.
harmsway		Excellent.
harmsway		Morning, all my golden retrievers. What kind of havoc shall we create in the world today?
harmsway		Good.
harmsway		Better.
harmsway		Boring -
harmsway		Dog bites man.  Man bites dog is a news story. Riots at the World Cup soccer finals is a social announcement. Next?
harmsway		 Is that so?
harmsway		I'm shocked!! Issue the usual vehement protest: Freedom of the press, people's right to know... Lather it up with a lot of righteous indignation.  Next?
bond		Still nothing?
bond		Wade, what the hell are you doing here?
wade		I am not here, ol' buddy. The CIA has absolutely no knowledge of the missing ship, the missing gold, where it was going, or when it left Hong Kong.
bond		That's reassuring.
wade		Hey - the world is my office.
bond		Let's take a look at the body.
wade		Smells like... Coffee plants.
wade		Colorful... Shark attack?
bond		I don't think so. The veins are cauterized - as if they were sealed by heat...  Who found the body?
police officer		 Dato. Local fisherman. Says it came in with the tide early this morning.
bond		Ask him if it could have washed in from the west side of the Strait.
policeman		No. He says it's not possible. The current could have only brought the body in from the east.
bond		 You have a boat?
wade		I don't know if you'd call it a boat...
bond		Something with an engine? Not oars?
wade		Step into my office.
wade		What do you want with the Harbor Master?
bond		Tide and current charts. Work backward from the body - find where the ship sank.  Where did you get the boat?
wade		Seized it from a guy smuggling computer chips out of Bangkok.  Should have seen his rose garden: Blooms the size of hand grenades.
bond		Over there.
wade		I think I've just seen my next future ex-wife.
bond		 Not if you kill us first - unless that's how you plan to leave Muffy.
wade		By the way, Jimbo - whatever happened to that girl - in Cuba - ?
bond		Natalya?
wade		Yeah. Russian Minister of Transportation.
bond		She married a hockey player.
wade		I envy your 'undercover' assignments.
bond		 We work in the dark. We do what we can.
harbor master		Wind, tide, currents... You're the second person today asked for a full set of charts.  If you'd just sign here -
bond		Thanks.  By the way - was there anything strange the night before last? Odd weather, lost boats - ??
harbor master		No... Unless you're talking about the bus problem.
bond		...Bus problem?
harbor master		Captain Cheong's ferry was late. He runs the line across the Strait between here and Sumatra. The lumber mill workers coming back for the weekend missed the last bus. Slept on the docks. Hundreds of them.
bond		Thanks.
bond		I have to get these to London. Do you know this Captain Cheong?
wade		Spends his nights at the Kuala Lumpur yacht club.
bond		Can you arrange a meeting?
wade		Hell. The CIA built that club.
wade		Okay gentlemen. The name of the game is 7-card Cambodian stud. Everything is wild!
captain cheong		In the Strait of Malacca, when a boat is even five minutes late, one begins to worry, Mr. Bond.
bond		I know. Pirates from Sumatra want the cargo; smugglers from Thailand and Burma want the ships.
captain cheong		Sometimes kill the crew; other times -  Torture them.
bond		I'm sorry.
captain cheong		The Kuala Lumpur ferry was 35 miles off-course that night. Captain blamed the auto-pilot; I suspected he was drunk - until the Sumatra ferry captain had same problem.
bond		Did you test the auto-pilots? The satellite positioning receiver?
captain cheong		Next morning. Both boats. Nothing wrong.  My 90 year old grandfather thinks 'Ghost in the computer - Silicon Dragon.'
bond		 I appreciate your time -
captain cheong		Maybe you should talk to Sidney Winch. Owns a marine salvage company. Nobody knows more about the Strait.
bond		Where can I find him?
captain cheong		Him? He, is a she -  at the bar.
sidney		Bourbon. Neat.
bond		I wonder if you handle your liquor more carefully than you handle your boat.
sidney		Sometimes, you just have to plunge into things. Be reckless.
bond		- And I bet you always leave turmoil in your wake.
sidney		 Have we met?
bond		This afternoon. Our boats practically kissed in the harbor.  James Bond.
sidney		Sidney Winch.
bond		Vodka martini, shaken not stirred.  And another for you?
sidney		No. But you can buy a drink for my friend, Taro.
bond		Boyfriend?
sidney		Chaperone. I'm waiting for my dinner date.
bond		Pity.  Bring him whatever he wants.
sidney		So what brings you to Kuala Lumpur, Mr. Bond?  Wait - don't tell me: Unhappy marriage? Running from some poor little girl with two kids and a Chanel pocketbook in - London?
bond		Actually, I'm here on business. You might say it was a... Golden opportunity.
sidney		 And exactly what business are you in, Mr. Bond?
bond		Insurance. Lloyds of London.
sidney		 The Strait can be a very dangerous place, Mr. Bond. A few words scribbled on a piece of paper in London doesn't carry a lot of value out here. Including life insurance.
bond		I'll keep that in mind.
sidney		 And I think Mr. Bond is ready to leave.
bond		Nice to run into you again.
sidney		Let's not make it a habit.
taro		I think you should go -
bond		Not quite yet, Taro -
sidney		Uncle Elliot!!
taro		I said you should -
wade		Yo! Jimbo! I won five hundred -  What happened?
bond		He tied one on.
girl one		Good morning!
girl two		Good morning.
girl three		 He's arrived.
q's voice		You're late 007. I've been expecting you.
bond		Q! How are you?
bond		I'm sorry. It was a national emergency -
bond		Do you have any idea of what any of that means? In English?
bond		 Do I have to dial '9' to get out?
bond		 - Four wheel drive?
bond		... 17 Beverage cup holders?
bond		I must say, Q, you seem to be doing rather well in your retirement.
bond		Slow down. We're close.
wade		I dunno, Jimbo. It can't be out here. How could they get this far off course?
bond		 Who knows? Fog, night...
wade		They'd never sail this close to the shore.
bond		Wait a minute -  I've got it. There! Off the port bow!
bond		Cut the engines! It's about two- hundred fifty feet down.
wade		Two-fifty's pretty deep for air. You should really be using mixed gases.
bond		I'll make a bounce dive. If I can keep my bottom time short, I'll be all right.
bond		 Keep your eye out for pirates.
wade		I got you covered.
bond		That's reassuring.
taro		Uzi beats knife.
bond		...Interesting point.
taro		Get him up. Take his belt.  Take the two of them to the Captain.
taro		By the way. I almost forgot.  I owed you one.
wade		 Smell that Jimmy? Sea Kelp.
wade		Hey - it could be worse. At least they speak English.
bond		...Somehow, that's not reassuring.
taro		Here they are, Captain.
sidney		Just give me one goad reason - Mister Bond, from Lloyds of London - why I shouldn't kill both of you, burn your boat, and use your bodies for shark bait.
wade		 So you two know each other!?! Small world, ain't it? What happened? Commitment problems?
sidney		Who is he?
bond		Sidney Winch, meet -
wade		Jack Wade. Citibank. Commercial loan division. If you're ever lookin' for a sweet refinance on the boat -
sidney		- Shut up!
bond		 ...But she won't kill us.
sidney		No?
bond		No. First, because I don't think it's in your nature. And second, because there's no gold down there.
sidney		So charming! So suave!  Don't insult me. I'm not one of your 'little London girls' who falls for the lies.
wade		So it was commitment!
sidney		Every wharf-rat from here to Hong Kong knows what's on that boat and I'm claiming it. One-third of that gold is mine.
bond		That's fine, but - even a little London girl knows that one third of nothing is still nothing.
sidney		Was he carrying anything?
sidney		Search him.
sidney		Do I have to do everything around here?
bond		I hope so.
bond		I hope you'll be gentle.
sidney		Think about mom.
bond		... Unusual technique.
sidney		And what do you call this?
bond		- The family jewels?
sidney		What is this?
technician		...I don't know. I'm not sure -
crewman		Boss! We got company - comin' up off the starboard bow!
sidney		 Bring them.
captain morton		 Attention sea barge: Lay down your weapons, and prepare to be boarded.
captain morton		Repeat: Lay down your weapons, and prepare to be boarded.
bond		If I were you -
sidney		- You're not.
bond		 Just remember: They think there's ten billion dollars in gold down there.
sidney		Thank you.  "Now hear this: Drop dead."
bond		Gatling gun beats Uzi.
captain morton		 Who's in charge here?
sidney		I am. What do you want?
captain morton		You have precisely one minute to pull up your anchor and be under way.
sidney		Forget it. No way. I got here first.
captain morton		 Who's Wade?
wade		That would be me -
captain morton		 And you're Bond?
bond		Yes -
captain morton		Guard! Arrest these men! Escort them to the cutter!
bond		Wait a minute -
captain morton		Get them out of here. If he says one word, shoot him.
sidney		 What's your name?
captain morton		Captain Morton.
sidney		My name is Sidney Winch, and -
captain morton		Good for you, Miss Winch. You now have exactly 30 seconds to get this rust bucket out of here.
sidney		 I know my rights. These are international waters. The British Navy abandoned that boat, and I'm claiming it. Under international law, I have the right to salvage what's on that wreck.
captain morton		Fifteen seconds. Perhaps you should consider hiring an attorney.
sidney		I was an attorney!
captain morton		Hmmm. I suppose this is a step above that profession.  Ten seconds. Are you leaving?
sidney		No.
captain morton		You leave me no alternative.
captain morton		 Cut her anchor.
sidney		You won't get away with this!
captain morton		 Good-day, Miss Winch. I advise you to get some steam up - before you run aground.
sidney		You bastards! Believe me - you haven't heard the last of me!
wade		- Nice trick with the arrest. Very convincing.
captain morton		It's no trick, Mr. Wade. I've got half a mind to throw both of you in the brig.
bond		Don't you think you're overreacting?
captain morton		 Endangering the gold, attracting that lunatic woman, and then putting in a distress call for us to save your bloody hide.
bond		 There's no gold down there.
captain morton		What are you talking about? We went through all this and the ship isn't even down there?
bond		Yes, the ship is down there. But the gold is gone.
captain morton		That's absurd! It took two squads of forty men fifteen days to load that gold.
bond		I know what I saw -
captain		I don't care what you think you saw. You're a damned amateur.  Just get off my ship. Go back to your trench-coats and your code names - and leave the job to professionals.
bond		 Aye-aye, Captain.
wade		Where to now, Jimbo?
bond		 I'm not certain... But I think there's someone I want to press for some answers in Kuala Lumpur.
bond		Bond.
harmsway's voice		Hello, Mister Bond.
bond		 Who is this?
harmsway		Elliot Harmsway! I heard you were in K.L. and thought we might get together for a chat...
bond		How did you get this number?
harmsway		Oh, please, Mr. Bond. We live in the information age! Information is currency - and with the right currency, you can have any piece of information.  Besides I own the phone company. What do you say? Twenty minutes?
bond		I'm on my way.
harmsway		Let's find out exactly what he knows.
bond		 James Bond to see Elliot Harmsway.
pr woman		Yes. I'm to bring you right up. The valet will take your car -
bond		I'd prefer to park it myself.  Temperamental. Practically has a mind of its own.
pr woman		Don't they all?
pr woman		Right this way.
pr woman		 Mr. Harmsway is checking the afternoon editions. If you'll just follow me -
harmsway		 Mr. Bond! Nice to see you.
bond		Sir Elliot.
harmsway		Come. Let's get out of the noise.  - I'll give you a tour of the building, then we'll talk.
harmsway		It's funny, Mr. Bond. Of all the things I own, nothing gives me as much enjoyment as my newspapers.
bond		Yes... A man with ink in his veins, and blood on his hands.
harmsway		We print 31 newspapers here; another two-hundred-and-seventy at satellite plants around the world.
bond		... And how many of those newspapers carried Paris Harmsway's obituary?
harmsway		All of them, Mister Bond...  After you?
harmsway		Before I became involved with Paris, she was always involved with the most inappropriate' men...  Playboys. Thrill seekers. Middle aged Peter Pans who only brought out the worst in her.
bond		I see.
harmsway		I tried to save her. But she remained a manic depressive: Fits, inappropriate behavior... Delusions of grandeur.
bond		I wonder if it runs in the family.
harmsway		 The only difference between a psychopath and a genius, Mr. Bond, is the degree of success.
harmsway		Still, I do miss her. I only wish she could have lived to see all this.
bond		I can feel your pain.
harmsway		By the way - what is it that brings you to Kuala Lumpur, Mister Bond?
bond		Sightseeing.
harmsway		I call this the Rogue's gallery.
bond		Yes. I can see: You've hung the rest of your relatives.
harmsway		 It was a city of unlimited possibility.
bond		So why did you leave?
harmsway		Because it's a dying city. Since the Chinese take-over, who knows what can happen tomorrow?  I turned it into this
harmsway		Welcome to the new world order, Mr. Bond.  2000 people working on 14 floors to feed 300 newspapers, 4 cable news networks, 87 magazines, and 29 different cable TV channels - in 35 languages.
bond		And still not a thing to watch.
bond		...Although it must be fun to have all those satellites.
harmsway		They're merely tools to disseminate information.
bond		 Or disinformation... If you wanted to, say, beam down a signal to send a ship off course? Maybe one degree a minute?
harmsway		 You amuse me. ...And now perhaps I can amuse you.
harmsway		Let's see... First we have this James Bond... I believe he's a field adjuster for Lloyd's of London...
harmsway		Then we have this James Bond.
harmsway		 Or perhaps you'd prefer this James Bond -
harmsway		You see, Mr. Bond, you and I are both men of action. But your era is passing. Words are the new weapons; satellites the new artillery. And make no mistake about it: In the right hands, they can be as deadly as your Walther PPK.
bond		...Words to live by?
harmsway		Your choice.  Look at the time! Come. There's someone I want you meet - about a story I'm thinking of publishing.
harmsway		Hello, dear. I'm sorry I took so long -
sidney		That's okay, Uncle Ell -
sidney		What is HE doing here?
harmsway		I see you two have met.
bond		Briefly.
harmsway		 ...Aren't you, Mr. Bond?
sidney		He's not going to tell the truth! He was diving for the gold!
harmsway		It seems - Mr. Bond - that Miss Winch has told me the most incredible story: A sunken British warship filled with gold; a British cutter firing on her; billions of dollars in bullion lying on the bottom of the Strait.
harmsway		Obviously, the British government denies all of this -
sidney		- I told you! He was there! -
harmsway		- But as I've explained to Sidney, without proof, there's just no story. Don't you agree Mr. Bond?
sidney		But I have proof! You ran out of here so fast, I didn't get to show you.
harmsway		 ...And what's that, my dear?
bond		Sidney, perhaps we should leave this to -
sidney		He brought that up from the wreck.
harmsway		...I see.
bond		Sidney, I wouldn't -
sidney		And what about this? Any idea what this is?
harmsway		... I believe it's a depleted uranium drill bit, my dear.
bond		Why don't we just take these -
sidney		 No. I want Sir Elliot to keep them.
harmsway		...Well! I do believe this requires further investigation!
sidney		Thank you, Uncle Elliot.
harmsway		No matter what the British government says, I won't kill this story.  Miss Oxford will show both of you to the elevator... And one of my people will definitely be in touch sooner than later.
bond		I'm sure they will.
harmsway		Good-bye, Mister Bond.
harmsway		Good-bye, darling.
executive secretary		Thank you both for coming in...
bond		 ... Do you have a gun?
sidney		What?
bond		 I left mine in the car.
sidney		That's funny: you struck me as the kind of man who always carries protection.
bond		Listen to me! I'm a British secret service agent. And we have about two minutes before Harmsway kills both of us.
sidney		Has anyone ever suggested that you're a paranoid psychotic?
bond		Harmsway sank that ship and stole the gold. It's on the Sea Dolphin II.  We're the only ones who can tie him to the crime.
sidney		Elliot Harmsway is my Uncle!
bond		Blood or Dutch?
sidney		He was my father's best friend!
bond		He's killed closer.
sidney		You are seriously deranged.
bond		Maybe. But why are we going up instead of down?
bond		Sidney, come with me -
sidney		Not if my life depended on it.
sidney		Thank God! He's crazy!
stamper		Does he have a gun?
sidney		No.
stamper		Good -
sidney		This is a mistake!
stamper		 Shut up!
bond		Need a lift?
stamper		Help me up.
bond		 ... I'd try the stairs.
stamper		 Attention all units! They're on the 71st floor!
harmsway		Stamper! They're not to leave this building alive!
sidney		This has got to be a mistake.
bond		The only mistake is that they didn't kill us in the elevator.
bond		Wait here.
sidney		No. I'm going with you.
harmsway		Where are they?
guard		 Roger! Over and -
bond		Out.
sidney		JAMES!
sidney		Okay. So it wasn't a mistake.  What do we do now? Offer them dinner?!?!
bond		Come here. You shoot. I'll cook.
bond		Aim that way.
bond		Shoot back!
bond		One second -
bond		... How did you get into marine salvage?
sidney		 My father left me the business.
sidney		I used to be a divorce lawyer in New York City.
bond		Not a lot of difference.
sidney		What do you mean?
bond		Either way, you're taking the goods from dead hulks.
bond		Let's go -
bond		Damn!
sidney		What the hell does that do?
bond		Cleans dirt. Let's go.
stamper		It's a trick! After him.  They're in the south stairwell!
harmsway		Get more men up there!
sidney		Down?
bond		Up.
sidney		Down?
bond		 Up.
harmsway		... And so much for that.  Nowhere to go.
sidney		Now what?
bond		That should buy us some time.
bond		Help me move this.
guard		I'll call for a battering ram -
stamper		No. Get the fire ax.
bond		We'll go down close to the sky bridge. We may be able to swing over and use it for cover.
sidney		No way. I sail. I do not fly.
bond		... Sometimes, you just have to take the plunge.
sidney		All I know is one thing: If we get out of here alive, that gold is mine.  I've earned it.
bond		One thing at a time.
sidney		 What now? And don't give me some movie clich like 'trust me.'
bond		 Trust me.
bond		Let's go -
sidney		We're going to bounce off that thing!
bond		Hold on!
stamper		 They're on the bridge. Seal off the 50th floor!
harmsway		 Get somebody up there!
sidney		What about the elevators?
bond		We tried that already. Remember?
sidney		You know, this is as much your fault as it is mine.
bond		Sidney, we don't have time for this -
sidney		Sure! Just when I want to talk -  Not that I would have believed you -
bond		Put your back to the railing. Sit up on it.
sidney		 Are you listening to me?
bond		Put your arms around my neck. Lock your legs around my waist.
sidney		... We have time for that?
bond		Sometimes you just have to -
sidney		Don't say it.
sidney		Is this - like - a normal day for you?
bond		It's a lousy job, but -  The only reason I stay is for the health benefits.
stamper		 They're heading for the press room. Stop them!
bond		He was bad news.
bond		Down there!
bond		I think they'd rather know who stole their gold.
harmsway		 Now both of you: Stand up. And toss the gun out, Mr. Bond.
sidney		Uncle Elliot: How could you do this to me?
harmsway		Oh, please, Sidney. There's a hundred billion dollars at stake.  Besides, I never really liked your father that much. He cheated at cards.
bond		Are your guards really going to kill a helpless girl?
harmsway		My guards are from South Africa, Mr. Bond. This is their chance to get even with the formerly 'Great' Britain.  Now both of you. Put your hands on your heads, and step forward.
bond		 What did you do, Harmsway? Make some deal with the Chinese government for the gold?.. Was the radioactive uranium I found in Venice part of it?
harmsway		Questions, questions, Mr. Bond... Which I'm afraid I've neither the time, nor the inclination to answer.  Take them out to the jungle and -
bond		I forgot to mention: The job comes with a car.
harmsway		Kill it! Shoot the damn thing -
bond		Here. You shoot. I'll drive.
sidney		...You know, that's another reason you're probably not in a successful relationship.
bond		Another reason??? Did I miss something???
sidney		 And by the way: I am not a helpless girl.
bond		Aim that way.
bond		Ready? Now!
harmsway		Seal the garage! Cut the power! He's got no headlamps!
sidney		We're not going to make it!
bond		If it's radio controlled, it'll break the code.
sidney		If not?
bond		 We blast through.
harmsway		- Built to withstand a nuclear blast.  Are they alive?
stamper		Yes. Shall we kill them?
harmsway		No. I have a better idea. In fact, Mr. Bond may have actually improved my original plan.  Bring them both to Hong Kong. And Make sure he has nothing else up his sleeve.
chin		Totally secure. Without codes, you'd need a missile to blast through the front door; you normally can't even get this close  without a full security clearance.
chin		Of course. You'd need -
yung		 Now!
yung		Let's go!
harmsway		Get the machine in the water!
yung		A generator blew. Nothing to worry about.  But I need one last shot of you. Why don't you stand by the alarm?
yung		 Up the stairs!
stamper		Put on your clothes.  Cuff him.
yung		 I'm sorry to interrupt again. But we need one more picture for the story.
bond		Sleep well?
sidney		Next time, I do the driving.
yung		The drill is in the water; approaching the intake tunnel.
harmsway		Excellent.
bond		I see you're in your natural element, Harmsway: A room filled with lethal power...  ...With a toxic core at its center.
harmsway		Do come in Mr. Bond, Sidney... You're just in time for a nuclear meltdown!
sidney		You bastard -
harmsway		Please, Sidney. I'd like to remember you fondly.
yung		 Approaching the first gate.
harmsway		Start the grinders.
bond		...So that's what the weapons grade uranium was for.
harmsway		Precisely, Mr. Bond. In a matter of minutes, the boring device will arrive at the core of the reactor...  And when the radioactive blades cut into the plutonium -
bond		- Instant melt-down.
harmsway		Chernobyl will look like a campfire.
yung		We're through the first gate. Approaching the second -
bond		 Why, Harmsway? Wasn't stealing the gold enough?
harmsway		 Revenge is the best revenge.
yung		Entering the main tunnel - ten minutes to target -
bond		 What could you possibly have to be vengeful for, Harmsway? Still trying to prove yourself to daddy?
harmsway		Hong Kong, Mr. Bond!
yung		You have to leave -
harmsway		 The gold is merely reparations - payment from the spineless British government who wouldn't listen.
bond		 ... I think Uncle Elliot is having his own melt-down.
yung		Approaching the third gate -
harmsway		Smash through it!  Here. This just in. Newsflash. Read all about it.
bond		... Hong Kong destroyed by nuclear meltdown... British agent found in reactor suspected of sabotage; Harmsway calls for British government to resign.
harmsway		...As the advertising says: Tomorrow never lies.
bond		What about the gold?
yung		You must go. Now. Otherwise the boat won't be out of range -
harmsway		Thirty seconds.  And just by coincidence:
harmsway		...Gold mine opens in Vietnam.  Let's go. Put them in the airlock.
bond		You'll never get away with it, Harmsway. Too many people know.
harmsway		Who, Mr. Bond? The kooks - the crazies - the conspiracy theorists? The Oliver Stones of the world?  They're my bellboys. They carry my luggage.
harmsway		Now. Get them in the airlock.
bond		One problem, Harmsway: The girl. And the handcuffs. They'll give it away.
sidney		No. I want to stay with him.
harmsway		 How sweet.
sidney		 My timing always was lousy.
bond		 I'd rather die alone.
harmsway		Take the girl. Leave the handcuffs. We'll drown her at sea.
sidney		 Enjoy the rest of your life.
harmsway		I'll meet you on the boat, south of Lantau Island.
yung		Take the men. I can finish alone.
harmsway		 You stay here.
yung		We'll cut through the last gate, then set it on auto-pilot.
yung		 Check it out. Be careful.
harmsway		Any news?
the captain		The call just went out on the Hong Kong police radio: Fire at the power plant.
harmsway		 Alert the media!
stamper		What do you want me to do with her?
sidney		- Can't we make a deal? I won't say anything -
harmsway		 Put her in the storage room.
cameraman		Don't get any ideas.
stamper		There it is.
stamper		It's him. They both made it.
the captain		I'll tell Sir Elliot.
harmsway		Yes?
captain's voice		He's approaching from the north, sir.
crewman		Fantastic. Invite the crew on deck to celebrate, and I'll be up in a few minutes.
crewman		He seems to be coming in awfully fast.
stamper		Get the guns! It's not him! It's Bond!!!
harmsway		What the hell is going on?
the captain		 I don't know sir -
harmsway		What the hell is going on?
harmsway		Kill him! Finish it!
stamper		You're mine now.
stamper		I'm going to do this slowly -
harmsway		 Stamper! Report in!
harmsway's voice		 Report to the bridge!
bond		I never believe what I read in the newspapers.
harmsway		Pity you'll miss your obituary.
bond		Where is she, Harmsway?
harmsway		You want to kill me, Bond? Go ahead.
bond		 Where is she Harmsway? -
harmsway		What is it, Bond? You haven't the guts?
bond		You spineless paper tiger -
bond		Where is she, Harmsway?!? Or did you kill her like Paris?
harmsway		 We all go down together!!!
sidney		What do you mean, you'd rather die alone?
bond		I didn't say when I want to die -
bond		... Yes???
sidney		Before we go any further here, Mr. Bond, from Lloyds of London, I just want to get two things straight.
bond		... Yes?
sidney		First, that boat is in international waters. I'm claiming it for salvage. One-third of that gold is mine.
bond		And number two?
sidney		If you think we're going to have some kind of 'life affirming' romance here just because we cheated death, let me be clear:  We're going to have it where I want, and when I want.
bond		And when might that be?
sidney		Now.
wade		Life is not fair.
officer		Excuse me, Major Boothroyd - the message went to London.
wade		Tell me, Q-ster. You do ever do any gardening?
sidney		James... Is this really what a typical day is like for you?
bond		Yes...  But some days... Are longer than others.
the end		   James Bond will return.  --------------------------------------------------------------
****Dialogues from script :Top_Gun.txt****

lso		POWER, POWER...DON'T CLIMB... OKAY, HOLD WHAT YOU GOT.
goose		CONTACT 20 LEFT AT 25, 900 KNOTS CLOSURE.
maverick		I'LL I.D. HIM, YOU HOOK 'EM.
goose		Closing fast. MUSTANG, THIS IS GHOST RIDER ONE ONE SEVEN. CONTACT ONE BOGEY, 090 AT 15 MILES, 900 KNOTS OF CLOSURE. COUGAR Look for the trailer.
goose		I don't see anything.  MAVERICK, YOU HAVE A TRAILER?
goose		NEGATIVE, COUGAR. LOOKS LIKE HE'S SINGLE.
cougar		HANG BACK AND WATCH FOR HIM. HERE COMES...MIG ONE.
maverick		BOGEY ON YOUR SIX. I'M ON HIS.
goose		I've got a six strobe.  I think he's locked on us.
cougar		It's a MiG 21. They don't have radar missiles!
goose		Let's hope you're right!
cougar		What is he doing?
goose		He's pissing me off!
cougar		Can't shake him.
cougar		Maintaining course. Straight for Mustang.
goose		Stay with him.
goose		 That's missile lock!
cougar		He better be kidding!
goose		Lordy!  Eyeball to Asshole. Hope nobody burps!
maverick		I'LL LOCK ON THEM, COUGAR.  Gotcha covered, don't nobody move.
cougar		I'M UP HERE TOO, MAVERICK.
maverick		ROGER, COUGAR.  Okay boys, pull out with your hands up and nobody'll get hurt.
cougar		We're locked on MiG ONE. Why doesn't he disengage?
goose		These guys are getting on my nerves.
goose		GHOST RIDER TO MUSTANG. BANDITS TURNING AWAY.
maverick		COUGAR, BREAK LEFT. TRY A HIGH G ROLL UNDERNEATH. BREAK OUT THE BOTTOM.
maverick		HE'S STILL ON YOU, COUGAR.
wizard		He's running for it.
maverick		Ah, the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat.
wizard		Speaking of feet, fuel's down to 4.0.  We're gonna get them wet unless we find a Sonoco station.
maverick		COUGAR, THIS IS MAVERICK.  I'M GETTING HUNGRY, LET'S HEAD FOR THE BARN. ...COUGAR, WHERE ARE YOU?
goose		Hey, if it was easy, everybody would want to come up here and do it..... Instead of just us.
cougar		 You.
maverick		NEEDLES READ DOWN AND LEFT.
maverick		NEEDLES CENTER.
maverick		Call the ball?  I don't see the ship!
cougar		Help me with this one, I'm really screwed up.
goose		Bring it left. Bring it left, You're high.
cougar		This is crazy!
goose		What is?
cougar		Wait! Hell!..Something's wrong!
goose		What?  What is it?
cougar		Were upside down!
goose		You're crazy. We're level.
cougar		Can't you feel it? I'm hanging in my straps!
goose		You're not. We're level. Look at the instruments, we're okay!
cougar		They must be broken. I'm hanging in my straps! We're inverted!
goose		We're not! Trust me! We're okay.
lso		A LITTLE POWER...FLY THE BALL. LOOKING GOOD...HOLD WHAT YOU GOT.
lso		WHERE THE HELL YOU GOING?
maverick		I...FORGOT SOMETHING.
wizard		What the hell you doing?
maverick		Helping him in.
wizard		What makes you think we can get back in?  We don't have the fuel for this. MAVERICK Just get me to him.
wizard		He's nine o'clock high. We're two thousand pounds low!
cougar		I'm pulling up.
goose		No! Now we're inverted!
maverick		HEY, ANY OF YOU GUYS SEEN AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER AROUND HERE?
cougar		WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
maverick		EVERYBODY'S GOT TO BE SOMEWHERE. ..NOW WE'RE RIGHT WITH YOU. YOU ARE INVERTED.  ROLL IT, COUGAR.
maverick		COUGAR, THIS IS MAVERICK. HALF ROLL IT. NOW!
goose		We're on vapor, Cougar, you got to put it down.
cougar		It's crazy, man. Instruments are crazy. We're gonna have to eject.
goose		TELL HIM, WILL YOU TELL HIM? OUR INSTRUMENTS ARE OKAY.
maverick		YOU'RE STRAIGHT AND LEVEL, COUGAR. COUGAR I'M HANGING IN MY STRAPS. I TURN IT OVER AND I'M STILL HANGING IN MY STRAPS. WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON UP HERE?
maverick		YOU'RE NOT IN THE STRAPS.  IT'S VERTIGO, THAT'S ALL IT IS. STAY ON MY WING. I'LL DROP YOU OFF.
cougar		MAVERICK.
maverick		YEAH, COUGAR?
cougar		YOU BETTER NOT BE RAGGING ME... IF YOU'RE FLYING UPSIDE DOWN...
maverick		NO JOKE, COUGAR. ON THE LEVEL. EVEN I WOULDN'T DO THAT TO YOU.
cougar		I'M UPSIDE DOWN. I KNOW IT. I'M GONNA EJECT.
goose		Look at the weather! They'll never find us! We're near out of fuel. Put it down.
maverick		COUGAR, YOU'RE ON THE BALL.
cougar		OKAY... OKAY. BUT IF I LAND THIS THING UPSIDE DOWN. AND I LIVE. I'LL HAVE YOUR BUTT!
goose		You'll have mine, Cougar. It'll be where your head used to be.
lso		LEVEL...YOUR WINGS... EASY... YOU'RE SETTLING....FLY THE BALL.
lso		POWER...POWER!..POWER!...WAVE OFF! WAVE OFF  WAVE OFF!
lso		COUGAR, GOOSE...COME IN COUGAR! SHUT YOUR ENGINES DOWN, YOU'VE ARRIVED.
air boss		GHOST RIDER! ACKNOWLEDGE! GHOST RIDER! ACKNOWLEDGE!
silver suit		Goose, can you hear me?  Goose!
goose		Oh, Hello... Valet parking?
silver suit		Son of a bitch!
goose		You will put it up front, with the Porsches?
goose		Hey...easy...Take it easy... I'm a veteran!
goose		Can you check under the hood. I thought I heard a funny noise.
goose		Lucy...Ricky...I'n Home!
goose		Is it extra for the hot wax?
air boss		Clear the flight deck.
goose		Well...there goes your tip.
wizard		It's Goose. He's alright. Bring it left...You're settling.  IS THE DECK CLEAR?
goose		On behalf of your Captain and your crew, I want to thank you for flying VF101. And next time your plans include the middle of the goddamn ocean in the dead of frigging night, I hope you'll think of Naval Aviation.
surgeon		Stress reaction...
goose		 Never mind my head, check my shorts!
stinger		Come in.
stinger		Cougar, what is it? You should be in sick bay. What are you doing?
cougar		Thinking of my wife and kid.
goose		Cougar!
maverick		Cougar?        STINGER  Maverick, Goose...Come in here.
maverick		Sir?
goose		Don't worry. I'll talk to him.
stinger		Don't.
maverick		He's a good pilot.
stinger		I talked a man back once. Three months later, we lost him. It's his decision. Only he knows.
goose		He's the best you have. He's going Top Gun!
stinger		Was.
maverick		What?
stinger		Was going.  Now you are.
maverick		Me?
stinger		Well, he's going  and he needs someone to fly the plane.
goose		Skipper, you can't do this!
stinger		I didn't do it, he did it himself. Something about a wife and kid. The fact is, he's lost it. He knows it. I know it. You were up there, you know it, too. GOOSE Give him a break, Skipper. It was raining snakes up there. He'll be alright, soon as all the gorillas go home...
stinger		I know some RIOS are a little wiggy...but you abuse the priviledge! I don't believe I'm going to have to put the two of you in the same cockpit...but there it is! It may be good for the Navy. It might be good for you, but most of all, it's good for me. It'll get you out of my sight.
goose		But, Skipper, Cougar's been picked for Top Gun...He's the best of the best!
stinger		Well, you'll just have to make do with him .
goose		Mav's a great flyer but....
stinger		He's a hell of a flyer. In fact, he's so damn good he might have been picked for Top Gun himself. Except for one thing.  He just can't seem to follow orders!
stinger		You just did an incredibly brave thing! What you should have done was land your plane. You don't own that plane, the taxpayers do. I should ream you out for it. But it just doesn't work with you. You're a hell of a flyer. You are maybe ...too good. You never really stepped in it yet. So this is your chance. I'm gonna send you up against the best. They are better than you. Maybe they'll knock that shine off your eagle and you'll see, finally, where discipline and teamwork fit it. Maverick hasn't really heard anything but TOPGUN. He snaps out of it.
maverick		Sir?
stinger		That is all. Tell me about the MiG some other time...
maverick		Yes sir!
stinger		Maverick..
maverick		Yes sir..
stinger		The wings..
stinger		Gentlemen!
stinger		Good luck.
chp		Son. Do you know why I stopped you?
maverick		Yes sir. I do sir
maverick		 Sir. You are going to give me a warning, Sir!
chp		License and registration.
chp		Lieutenant, do you know how fast you were going?
maverick		Yes sir. I do, Sir.
chp		Well?
maverick		Sir. I was going Mach point one five.
chp		One SIXTH the speed of sound!
maverick		Yes sir.
chp		 Lieutenant... What do you... usually fly?
maverick		F-14's sir.
chp		 Tomcats?
maverick		Yes sir!
chp		Lieutenant... Is there... a Russian attack?
maverick		No sir! But you have to be ready.
chp		Lieutenant.
maverick		Yes, Sergeant?
chp		Remember one thing.
maverick		Sir?
chp		Outside of this gate... I...am Top Gun.
maverick		Yes sir!
ice		Uh oh, police escort. This one must be a real killer.
viper		By the end of Vietnam we upped our kill ratio to thirteen to one.
viper		You're here 'cause you're the top one per cent of all naval aviators.
viper		...Someone once asked me if training men for air combat made the world less safe--flying loaded guns... an accidental confrontation and so forth...
goose		 What are you doing?
maverick		Nothing...That's McGown...that's Singer, isn't it? GOOSE Turn around, pay attention. What are you doing?
maverick		 ...who is the best.
viper		Really...     Ya know. We'd like to know who's best too. That's why we've got that plaque on the wall... with the Top Top Gun crew from each class. You think maybe your name's gonna be on it?
maverick		Yes sir.
viper		Considering the company you're in, that's a pretty arrogant attitude.
maverick		 Yes sir.
viper		I like that in a fighter pilot.  It's okay to be confident. You have to think you're King Kong to want to try to land on carriers. Just keep in mind the other component of success...teamwork.
maverick		Yes sir.
viper		Gentlemen, this is about combat. Remember, there are no points for second place. Dismissed. Viper walks out. Maverick finds Goose looking at him, quizzically. Others mill around the plaque.  A big, friendly bear of a RIO speaks.
wolfman		A plaque?
hollywood		It's not the plaque. The winner can get assigned here as instructor. He gets to fight every day.
goose		I don't know, Frank, anybody gets off on bombing the shit out of dirt has got to be queer.
goose		Keller, Black Lion Squadron. I knew him at Pensacola. He's damn good.
maverick		Is there anybody in the Navy you don't know?
goose		Gotta keep track of the competition.
goose		Slider -- they let you into Top Gun? If you're among the best in the Navy, I tremble for the security of this country.
slider		Why Goose, whose butt did you kiss to get here?
goose		The list is long, but distinguished.
slider		So's my Johnson.
goose		This is Maverick.
slider		So I've heard.
goose		Who's your pilot?
slider		Tom Kazansky.
goose		 No shit. The Iceman....
slider		Mister to you.
goose		You think you can stay up with us.
slider		I think, yeah, we'll show you a thing or two.
goose		This is Evan Mitchell, he steers the thing.
slider		So I heard. Steers it pretty close. Sorry to hear about Cougar. He was a good man.
maverick		Still is.. SLIDER Yeah. That's what I meant.
slider		What was that?
goose		Flaming Hooker. Sort of an institution around here. Or maybe this is the institution, I forget which. It's the house drink. It'll warm the cockles of your heart ... and other things depending on where you spill it.
maverick		You ever done this before?
goose		What, been drunk? Sure! Plenty!
slider		How was it?
goose		Could use a dash more jet fuel.
goose		Careful, don't make an ash of yourself...
sundown		Yeow!
goose		Mayday! Down in flames!
sundown		Thanks, I needed that.
hollywood		You guys are not only crazy, you're dangerous!
maverick		Who is that guy?
hollywood		That's Kazanski.
goose		No shit! That why they call him Ice?
hollywood		Nope. It's the way he flies - Ice cold. No mistakes. Wears you down. After enough time, you just get bored and frustrated, you do something stupid, and he's got you.
girl		Why do you all have such funny names?
wolfman		You gotta have a call sign that's just your own...never changes...you have to recognize it immediately. Then, if someone shouts "Wolf, break left!"..you react right away.
girl		Why do they call you Wolf?
woldfman		 Oh, I don't know.
goose		Hey Mav, this is Sally. She doesn't believe a word I say. Tell her I'm married, will you?
maverick		Yeah, he's married--but then again, he,s not dead.
girl		Could I get a call sign?
wolfman		Well, I don't know. That depends.
girl		On what?
wolfman		Well, it doesn't just happen, you gotta do something famous.
girl		Like what?
wolfman		Oh...I'll think of something.
iceman		Figured it out yet?
maverick		Figured out what?
iceman		Who is the best.
maverick		Nope.
iceman		Need a hint?
maverick		I think I can work it out on my own.
iceman		You like to work alone. I've heard that about you.
maverick		I've heard of you, too. You were in 124 with Bargamian.
iceman		And you were with Cougar. He was my roommate in flight school.
maverick		He's a good man. ICEMAN The best.
slider		You must have soloed under a lucky star. First the MiG, then you slide into Cougar's place.
goose		It's not Cougar's place. It's ours.
ice		What do you think it was? Was it that MiG contact that did it?
goose		Did what?
ice		Got you here.
goose		We're here because we're the best flyers in the wing. Not because of some MiG encounter.
slider		What luck! Guys fly their whole career without seeing a MiG up close...You're famous.
ice		You mean notorious.
maverick		What do these guys think, I made Cougar quit?
goose		Pay no attention to it. They're just trying to rattle you. It's all psychological. Sit down..and drink.
maverick		What, what is it?
hollywood		Target passing. Check your six.
maverick		Never mind mine. Check hers.
hollywood		Her six is a ten! Uh oh, a turn to engage.
wolfman		Bogey...9 o'clock level.
sundown		Nine thirty. Bogey?  You presume that hostile?
goose		The family unit -- that's the most important thing. It's the only thing you can count on. I'm married --did I tell you that?
first girl		Four times. We don't believe you.
goose		I've been married since I was eighteen. Why don't you believe me?
second girl		Because you don't look married.
first girl		You're not even wearing a ring.
goose		 I take it off when I'm chasing women. It's the only honorable thing to do.
hollywood		You don't think about death up there, but you think a lot about the danger. One mistake and you're a smoking hole in the ground.
girl		I never knew it was so dangerous. HOLLYWOOD Oh yeah, it makes everything down here more meaningful. You feel a certain intensity of life, and you want to grab onto every moment.
charlie		Long cruise, was it?
charlie		Anything I can do to help, Lieutenant?
maverick		Lots of things.
charlie		I'll bet!
maverick		Uhhh...Anything I can do for you? She laughs again, doesn't know what it is...could be chemical, but she's instinctively attracted.
charlie		Yeah. Hold this. It might be safer.
charlie		Now I know why all the girls come here. They know how horny you guys get. But this...is ridiculous.
maverick		It's not that.
charlie		It isn't?
maverick		Well, it is. It is that, too.
charlie		That's a big comfort to me.
maverick		I could be, too.
charlie		How so?
maverick		Save you from a big mistake with that other guy.
charlie		And on to a bigger one with you?
maverick		Yeah, most likely.
charlie		Was there ever a girl who didn't like fighter pilots?
maverick		I heard of one once.
charlie		I'm really flattered, Lieutenant, but I don't go out with pilots. MAVERICK Then what are you doing here?
charlie		I think the question is...what are you?
maverick		Hi. I'm here to talk about a new concept in cosmetics...
charlie		Sorry.
maverick		My fault. Should have watched where I was going.
maverick		Uh, nobody, I guess.
charlie		Too bad.
charlie		See you around.
maverick		Can I walk you out?She turns back to him, a smile.
charlie		I'm with someone.
maverick		I thought he'd never leave.
charlie		Yeow!
charlie		You! What are you doing here?
maverick		Everybody's got to be somewhere.
charlie		What if Captain Dawson had come with me?
maverick		It would have been really embarrassing!
charlie		How did you know this was my car?
maverick		Simple deduction. It's fast. It's pretty. Sleek and stylish...It's your color...matches your lipstick.
charlie		That's all!
maverick		And I asked someone. CHARLIE You think you're pretty smart.
maverick		I think I'm in love.
marine		Can I help you, Ma'am?
charlie		I don't know, Corporal. Can you do anything about this lunatic?
flex		Not so fast...my head.
jester		Who are you?
sundown		I'm Sundown.
jester		Yeah, right. You're late.
viper		And who are you?
flex		Flex
viper		Flex...? You don't look like Flex to me. You call that muscle? Doesn't look like muscle. Looks like...Pork.
viper		What're you laughing at? You're Fungus.
pork		Don't make an issue of it, it'll stick.
viper		Now to continue. In this class we will be dealing with F-5's and A4's, as our MiG simulators. Technically the F-5 does not have the thrust to weight ratio of the MiG-21--it also does not bleed energy below 300 knots like the MiG-21 does. The A4 does not turn as well as the MiG-17 but has significantly better visibility.
viper		Hi, Charlie. Good, our TAGREF's here. Charlie's the most qualified to get into P subs and curves, and VN diagrams.
viper		Charlotte Blackwood--code name Charlie-- not your ordinary TAGREF. Charlie has her Ph.D. in astrophysics--she's a civilian contractor so you don't salute her...or anything else. Is that clear?
charlie		Hello, I think I have some new data for you...Now a MiG 21 has a problem with the inverted flight tanks. It won't do a Negative G push over. Even below one G, they risk a flame out. Operationally, they will do a zero to one G only.
maverick		I don't think you're altogether right...about the MiG, that is.
charlie		I beg your pardon.
maverick		No, I beg yours. But I don't think you're right on that.
charlie		Why not?
maverick		I saw one.
charlie		You saw a MiG 21?
maverick		I saw a MiG do a 4 G negative dive.
charlie		 Where did you see that?
maverick		It's classified.
charlie		It's what?
maverick		It's classified. Like Hollywood says, I could tell you, but then I'd have to kill you.
viper		Maverick!!!
charlie		It's all right.
charlie		Lieutenant, I have a top secret clearance. The Pentagon sees to it that I know more than you.
maverick		Not in this case. CHARLIE  You saw a MiG push negative 4G?
maverick		Yes, ma'am.
charlie		Where were you?
maverick		On his six.
charlie		He was in a 4G Negative dive and you were on his six?
maverick		Yes, ma'am, At first. Then I was directly above him.
charlie		If you were directly above him, how did you see him?
maverick		I was inverted.
charlie		You were in a 4G inverted dive with a MiG 21?   
maverick		Two.
charlie		Two miles.
maverick		Two meters.
goose		One and a half, actually. I got a polaroid.
charlie		 Lieutenant... MAVERICK Ma'am?
charlie		What were you doing there?
maverick		Giving him the bird.
charlie		The what?
maverick		You know. The finger.
charlie		So you're the reason those SALT talks failed.
viper		Lieutenant!
goose		It's just like he says, sir.
viper		 I don't care!
maverick		Why didn't you tell me you were a TAGREF?
charlie		It never came up.
maverick		You let me make a fool of myself.
charlie		You seemed determined to do that anyway.. Why didn't you tell me you were a famous MiG insulter? MAVERICK Would it have made a difference?
charlie		No.
maverick		What would?
charlie		You know, I'm assigned to this school. I see sixteen new hotshots every eight weeks. Your attention is flattering, but not really productive. Why don't you keep your mind on flying.
charlie		Why can't you keep this straight?
viper		Maverick... Where'd you get that call sign?
maverick		Ahhh... Runs in the family, sir.
viper		You're father was Marvin Mitchell..
maverick		Yes sir.
viper		A good man. Good flyer.
maverick		Yes sir. Thank you sir.
goose		On your six -- coming hard. Four hundred. Losing airspeed! He's on your six and closing fast! Hard left! HARD LEFT!
goose		Great move. Great
maverick		He should've had me. GOOSE Take it down. Let's bug out of here. Call for a draw.
maverick		No way. I'll nail him this time. Going vertical.
goose		He's blind -- you got him!
jester		NO JOY! NO JOY! WHERE ARE YOU? I'VE LOST SIGHT.
goose		He's out of energy! You got control? Unload!
jester		WE'RE BELOW THE HARD DECK. FIGHT'S OFF.
goose		He's right. We're at ten thousand.
maverick		No way. I got you, sucker. You're going down.
maverick		In the envelope. FOX TWO MISSILE SHOT. YOU'RE GONE, JESTER, DEAD! GOOSE  Goddamn! We beat him!
jester		ROGER FOX TWO. GET YOUR BUTTS ABOVE THE HARD DECK. RETURN TO BASE IMMEDIATELY.
maverick		We did it!
goose		Look, Ma, top of the world!
goose		Ahhh...A little high on the left, don't you think?
maverick		Right.
goose		Right. Much better. ...Ahhh...what do you call this?
maverick		It's a victory roll.
goose		I wouldn't call it victory.  It's more like...self immolation.
goose		Hi...Hi there. How ya doing in there?  Mav... Ahhh...you know, at one point I did want a Navy career.
maverick		Come on, relax...
goose		You see all those guys with gold on their shoulders!!?... Oh, no, I think that was Johnson, Air Boss of the Kitty Hawk!
maverick		Come on, we beat an instructor. How many times in your life do you get to do a victory roll?
goose		Just once, if they take your plane away.
***		52F.  EXT. FLIGHTLINE.
iceman		Cowboys!
slider		Nice. Always a good idea to show up your instructors. He nods toward Jester, glaring at them from his A4. Goose indicates the backseat of the Tomcat.
goose		Hey, see any controls back there?  And anyway...we beat the Son of a Bitch!
wolfman		You won?!!!
maverick		Didn't everybody?
wolfman		No, we...got our butts kicked.
hollywood		Thirty seconds. That's all it took to blow us out of the sky.
hollywood		And he's laughing. Right over the radio, He's laughing at us.
ice		That's not what I heard.
goose		We won! Ice turns back, stares them down, then turns back into his locker, dismissing them.
ice		Below the hard deck doesn't count. You guys are the second team, aren't you?
jester		Maverick, Goose. Viper's office. Now!
viper		Well....That about covers the flyby.
viper		Now...in addition...you broke two major rules of engagement. And... That's ...not good.
viper		Lieutenant Candela lost sight of you, and called "no joy". You failed to respond.
maverick		I had him in view. I was peeling over the egg, into a dive. He saw me when I moved in for the kill. There wasn't any danger...
viper		 Is that how you remember it?
goose		Yes, sir. By the time we could respond, we were diving right into his view.
viper		The hard deck for this hop was ten thousand feet. Jester, at what point did you call off the fight?
jester		Just below ten thousand.
viper		But you continued to fight.
viper		Why?
maverick		We weren't below for more than ten seconds. There was no danger. I had the shot. I took it.
viper		The rules of engagement are not flexible. They exist for your safety. You will obey them. Is that clear?
viper		I guess you were. Dismissed.
jester		I don't know what to tell you, Skip.
viper		Tell me one thing.
viper		...If you had to go into combat, would you want him with you?
jester		Yep.
jester		He's seat of the pants... Completely unpredictable -- nothing by the book. All over the sky. But I don't know, Skip, he's really got something.
viper		Yeah, we get one of these guys every damn class.   "Maverick!"
wolfman		No. No. Look out, you lost it.
wolfman		We're dead!
goose		Man, you guys gooned it. Your laser butts are scattered across KANSAS.
hollywood		 Come on. I died enough for one night.
goose		Have you guys ever considered career counseling?
goose		What happened.
goose		What did you do? You broke it!
charlie		You flew it off the template. Nobody ever did that before.
goose		That's what she said last night.
charlie		What is it about you?
maverick		What would you say, too fast...too quick...
charlie		And far too aggressive.
maverick		It is combat. Every second counts.
maverick		Well, what you need...what you have to keep looking for...what you want to get is a wingman who can stay up with you. Who can match you move for move. Then you've got something.  I'm sorry.
charlie		For what?
maverick		That stuff about the MiG. I was out of line.
charlie		Apology acknowledged.
maverick		Is that all? CHARLIE What else do you want?
maverick		Um. You.
charlie		There you go with those moves again.
maverick		Too aggressive?
charlie		I don't mix with the boys. I work here. Let's keep it professional.
maverick		I'm special.
charlie		 Yes. I'll give you that!
maverick		Give me a break, I'm asking you out.
charlie		I can't.
maverick		I thought there was something... That night in the club...
charlie		Lieutenant...
maverick		Evan... or Maverick.
charlie		Maverick...you know the rules of engagement.
maverick		 The what?
charlie		Some one comes up hot on your six, what do you do?
maverick		What are you talking about?
charlie		You turn into him, check him out, identify friend or foe.
maverick		I'm not your foe. CHARLIE And if he's harmless, you disengage.
maverick		Harmless!
charlie		Uh hum.
maverick		What if he's not?
charlie		You have to shoot him down....If he's smart, he'll turn away before that happens.
charlie		And probably never again. It's nothing personal. It's just...I know a lot of pilots. Maybe I'm immune...
maverick		Don't worry, I'm a new strain. And I don't give up. Everything I've ever wanted I've had to work like hell for. Well, how about it?
charlie		How about what?
maverick		How about anything, anything you want to do.
charlie		Hard to argue with that, isn't it...
maverick		A date... Coffee... A drink...A walk in the park.
charlie		What about the plane?
maverick		What plane.
charlie		Most of them invite me to sit in the cockpit...play with the levers and things. MAVERICK Well, get used to it.
charlie		Used to what?
maverick		I'm different.
charlie		I'm starting to sense that now.
maverick		Let's make it at eight.
charlie		Make what?
maverick		Anything.
charlie		Okay, anything. Just...go. I've gotta work.
charlie		Why'd you do that?
maverick		It dies. We live.
charlie		You're an animal.
maverick		That's true. What are you?
charlie		I don't enjoy watching things suffer.
charlie		No!
maverick		It's not suffering anymore.
charlie		 You're horrible
maverick		You're not, cause you eat frozen meatballs?    Things die. Every time you breathe, you kill millions of tiny organisms. Every time you eat, something had to die.
charlie		You don't have to kill it.
maverick		Somebody does. It's more honest this way. You do your own dirty work.
charlie		You ever think about killing another human being?
maverick		About as much as they think about killing me.
charlie		Does it bother you?
maverick		They know the rules...  Everybody dies. Most people don't get to die for something.
charlie		Flying? MAVERICK You use your mind to keep things at a distance. You ever just let go?
maverick		You know what really scares me? Living too long. Losing my hair and my teeth...and my guts and my wind. And my brains...Sitting in a room with my hands in my lap, watching daytime TV.
charlie		You don't believe any of this. You don't think you'll ever die.
maverick		That's it, of course. When I'm up there and doing it, I'm cheating it every second. I'm subverting all laws...gravity...whatever. I'm skating the edge of it.
charlie		Winston Churchill.
charlie		What he said..."There's nothing so exhilarating as being shot at without result."
maverick		All you've got is one life. I guess it's worth about the same to every body. You ever see an old woman after her husband has died? And the meaningless years of decline stretch ahead...  When you're in the air and doing something really dangerous, you can look ahead... maybe ten seconds. That's your whole future. That's as far as it goes. But imagine what those seconds are worth.
charlie		What if you kill yourself? Think of everything you'll miss. MAVERICK There is lots of stuff I don't know about...  Fine wine... great art... the opera. I guess if I live long enough, I'll get to it. If I don't, I'll never miss it.
charlie		Are you really that brave?
maverick		 I watched my mother die. Cancer. She had a long time to think about it. They say you reach an agreement with death. Come to accept the fact that pretty soon you won't be here. I didn't see that. She... was very brave...braver than I am. You go up there, there isn't time to think. If you make a mistake, you're just a smudge on the ground. Simplifies funeral arrangements.
charlie		It's just as I thought.
maverick		What?
charlie		You're totally insane.
maverick		 Care for some suchi?.
goose		Come on, we're next.
maverick		What?
goose		Come on, I got over six bucks on the line.
goose		Come on, come on! It's double or nothing.. We're talking twelve bucks American, here.
maverick		I've had enough...for now.
maverick		Come on.
charlie		Where?
maverick		You want to go ballistic?
charlie		I don't know. I don't like being out of control.
maverick		Stick with me, you'll get used to it.
maverick		I always wanted to fly... ever since I first saw a jet. I wanted to fly jets, then I wanted F-14's, then I wanted to fly off carriers, then I wanted Top Gun.
charlie		And now?
maverick		And now I want you.
charlie		You always get what you want?
maverick		I don't know yet.
charlie		I want it understood.
maverick		Anything.
charlie		No fooling on base, no signs, no comments, no talk. By anyone.
maverick		Why?
charlie		I'm a professional. You guys are in my line of work.
maverick		Acknowleged.
viper		The bandit has good position right here. All right, freeze here. The moment of choice -- Maverick is defensive. He has a chance to bug out right here....Better to retire and save your plane than force a bad position. Stay in the diamond another three seconds, the bandit will blow you out of the sky...make a hard right, select zone 5... you can extend and escape. You make a bad choice. Roll forward.
maverick		I wasn't thinking. I just did it.
viper		Big gamble with a thirty million dollar plane!
maverick		 No guts, no glory.
viper		Unfortunately, the gamble worked, or you might have learned something. The bandit never gets a clean shot...Maverick makes an aggressive vertical move here, comes over the top and defeats the bandit with a missile shot. The encounter was a victory, but we've shown it as an example of what not to do. Ice is next.
hollywood		Gutsiest move I ever saw.
viper		And the dumbest...Okay, look at this. It's textbook. Ice takes control of the battle immediately. He never gives the bandit a chance to take the offensive. An early turn here -- excellent. He goes for the jugular, and it's over just that quick. Let's run that again, it's exactly how it should be done.
maverick		Don't chew it, you won't have it that long. Easier to clean the cockpit if it comes up in big chunks.
jester		On the run. Let's go. Move it!
goose		A fighter pilot's lunch... a hot dog and a puke.
hollywood		I was a victim of circumstance.
goose		They should have warned you about that one.
hollywood		She's kinky for flight suits--said that she'd never seen so many zippers--played with them all night. The noise alone kept me up.
goose		What'd you do?
hollywood		Pulled left, rolled out, underneath.
wolfman		It's kind of ironic. All you guys have women troubles and I don't.
hollywood		That's because you don't have any women.
wolfman		Until last night. Did you see the moves I was making on that girl at the party?
hollywood		The girl with the purple fingernails?
wolfman		That's her--tall hungry woman with fire in her eyes. It was great.
maverick		It was bad.
wolfman		Bad?
maverick		The girl with the purple fingernails was Coogan's sister.
hollywood		Coogan spent half the night looking for her. He said he was gonna kill the son-of-a-bitch who ruined his sister.
wolfman		I didn't ruin her.
maverick		You didn't help.
wolfman		No, really. She came ruined!... Ya think he knows it was me?
goose		Seemed not to. But it's hard to know. You never can tell what's in the mind of a psychopath.
hollywood		Hear about Ice?
wolfman		What now?
hollywood		He won again.
goose		Something bothering you?
maverick		Nothing. Let's just go fight.
maverick		Morning, Coogan.
wolfman		How's it goin', Coog?
hollywood		Ever find your sister, Coogan?
coogan		You guys know somethin' about that?
jester		ROGER. COMING LEFT.
maverick		STAY WITH HIM! TIGHTEN YOUR TURN!
goose		Bogey at three o'clock high! Nose on!
viper		SNAPSHOT..MISSED HIM..
maverick		ENGAGING THE OTHER GUY. WOOD, YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN.
goose		Just cover Wood, Maverick. Mutual support, man!
maverick		I'm gonna take him, Goose.
goose		Don't be greedy. Stay with Wood.
maverick		I want him!
goose		Hey, come on--hey!
goose		What what are you doing? We're cover!
maverick		Wood's okay. I want Viper.
goose		But we're cover!
maverick		What's the range, Goose. I've got a good tone.
goose		Two bogies ! Three o'clock high, nine o'clock high! Break!
jester		ATOLL ON THE NORTHERN F-14. HE'S OUT OF THE FIGHT..
viper		WALKED RIGHT INTO IT.
jester		NOT ONLY THAT, BUT ZORRO GOT YOUR WINGMAN. NICE GOING.
goose		THE DEFENSE DEPARTMENT REGRETS TO INFORM YOU THAT YOUR SONS ARE DEAD BECAUSE THEY WERE STUPID!
viper		KNOCK OFF THE CHATTER, TOP GUNS. LET'S RTB. VIPER HAS THE LEAD.
viper		Ya know, that was the best flying I've seen since Nam... ...Right up to that part where you got killed.
viper		Twenty years' experience, I couldn't shake you. You may be a great flyer. I mean that.
maverick		I lost.
viper		Of course you did. I said a great flyer, not a smart one. You fly reckless. Great instincts. No discipline. That ambush today, you followed your emotions instead of your wingman. Of course you got killed...and well deserved to. It was a really stupid mistake. In battle, it gets people killed.
maverick		I can take care of myself.
viper		Talent is no holy shield. Von Richtofen was killed by a farm boy. Instincts are not enough. Do it our way. We've worked these things out. The good pilots can become better and the great ones can learn how to stay alive.    Why do you have to do everything the hard way?
maverick		It's my own way. It works for me. I don't care about the rest of that stuff.
viper		Then why are you here?
maverick		For the same reason you are.
viper		Oh, you mean the thrill!
maverick		The flying. The fighting.  I'd go up there ten times a day to fight. I'd win at least nine of them. That's all I want to do. It's what I do best. I am real good.  Just give me the jet.
viper		It's not a gift, just a loan...
viper		Nine out of ten is okay, as long as it's only fun and games. But this isn't about that. This is serious business. It is dangerous up there! At 500 knots, things can change a lot in a second. Discipline is what protects us.
viper		It was a good day. You learned something. You lost and you're still alive to think about it. And, you lost your wingman. That's a cardinal sin...don't ever do it again. You owe Hollywood an apology and you owe me a beer.
goose		Relationships are a bitch, here. It's hard enough to concentrate ...under the pressure. Having a woman here is asking for it.
maverick		I guess that's what I'm doing, then.
goose		Where do you find the time? Where do you find the energy. It's tough enough to keep your mind on school. A woman here is a real pain in the...
goose		...butt...Hi, honey, God, am I glad to see you! I missed you.
carol		I had to come, Willard, I got so lonesome I just couldn't stand it.
goose		Sure, honey, I understand. It's great to see you. Hey where's your backseater, where's the world's smallest RIO..
maverick		Food...and you...my F-14!
charlie		In that order?
maverick		Well no...inverse order.
charlie		I'm still second best.
maverick		You ever fly an F-14? 
charlie		I don't fly in anything that doesn't show movies.
maverick		Ahhh, you'd love it. Night carrier landings! The most dangerous thing you can think of! ...next to you...And the most exciting. You're living at one hundred and ten per cent. Greatest high in the world...
charlie		Danger?
maverick		. Yeah!
charlie		Doesn't it ever bother you?
maverick		Why, what's gonna happen?
maverick		Lucky charm.
charlie		What do you take me for? It's a Navy Cross.
maverick		Just good luck.
charlie		Where'd you get it.
maverick		Pawn shop. What's to eat?
ice		ENGAGING BANDIT 12 O'CLOCK.
maverick		SHIT!!
ice		MIG'S IN A LEFT. MIG'S IN A LEFTHAND. I'M ENGAGING.
maverick		COME OFF RIGHT--COME OFF HIGH--I'M IN--I'LL ENGAGE.
ice		STAY WHERE YOU ARE. HE'S MINE. I'M ENGAGED. I'M IN.
ice		GET OUT OF THERE, YOU'RE UNSAFE. GET OUT OF THERE.
maverick		FIRE, OR CLEAR OUT, ICE.
ice		GET LOST!
maverick		YOU GOT TOO MUCH NOSE TO TAIL -- I'M COMING IN.
ice		IT'S MY SHOT.
maverick		COME OFF--COME OFF RIGHT. I'M ON MY WAY IN. YOU GO FREE, I'M ENGAGING.
ice		STAY OUT OF IT. STAY OUT OF IT, MAVERICK.
maverick		YOU CAN'T SHOOT HIM, I CAN. I'M IN.
maverick		ICE, ROLL OFF, I CAN SHOOT HIM.
ice		NO, NO, NO, HE'S MINE.
maverick		IF YOU CAN'T SHOOT HIM, I CAN.
ice		NO, I GOT HIM. I CAN TAKE HIM.
maverick		COMING IN.
ice		 Sonofabitch.
ice		LOOK OUT!
goose		Oh, no!
goose		Plane's coupling up! Plane's coupling up!
goose		This is not good!... We're low!
maverick		I'm pinned to the panel.
goose		Time to go.
maverick		I can't eject.
goose		3000 feet. I'll do it.
maverick		Go ahead. I can't reach. 2000 feet!
maverick		Let's go. Eject.
frogman		Let him go, sir. Take it easy.
frogman		Sir! Let him go. It's all right. Let him go.
viper		How do you feel?
maverick		All right.
viper		Goose is dead.
maverick		I know. I was there.
viper		If you fly jets long enough, something like this happens to you. No one escapes it. It touches us all.
maverick		He was...my responsibility--my RIO.
viper		My first squadron in Vietnam, we lost eight out of eighteen planes. Ten guys. The first one kills you, but there'll be others--you can count on it.
viper		You've got to put him in the box.
charlie		...they say you're alright.
maverick		I'm fine.
charlie		This is it, then.
maverick		What?
charlie		The dark side. The price you pay for all the fun you're having. You knew about it, of course. Didn't you?
maverick		He was a friend of mine. A good guy...great guy. It was my fault.
charlie		That's not what I hear.
maverick		I was flying...my responsibility.
charlie		That's what you get flight pay for.
maverick		Maybe I shouldn't take it.
charlie		 Why? You act like you didn't know one day this would happen.
maverick		Not to me.
charlie		You knew it. You all do. It's part of it. Maybe the most important part.
maverick		Where are we?
charlie		Where are we? You know where we are. It's called the beach. It's where life first crawled up out of the sea. I come here sometimes... when I feel like crawling back in.
maverick		You don't have to do this.
charlie		Do what, show you a good time?
maverick		I'm not good company. I should be alone.
charlie		I don't think so, but if that's what you want...
maverick		No.
charlie		What do you want?
maverick		I want it back.
charlie		What?
maverick		Yesterday.
charlie		You look way out there. Out past the date line. West becomes East, all things change. You cross the line...today becomes yesterday...or tomorrow, I forget which.
maverick		That's what I want.
charlie		Of course the line's just imaginary. You can cross it twenty times...nothing really changes.
charlie		On the beach... It's what they say when Navy men retire...He's "On The Beach". I always liked that. I had a picture...in my head... all these old guys wandering around here, looking out into the past.
maverick		If we knew then, what we know now, we might never have come up out of there.
charlie		You don't believe that.
maverick		Hardly ever.
charlie		Only when you're depressed. Then it passes.
maverick		It does.
charlie		Everything passes. Immutable law of the Universe.
charlie		This too...shall pass. You put as much life as you can between it and you. You start piling up experience between then and now.
maverick		What do you do when you come here?
charlie		I sit. I think. I play games.
maverick		What kind of games?
charlie		I like to play "reality".
maverick		How do you play reality.
charlie		It's strip reality, actually, like what the pilots always want to play.
maverick		 Strip reality! How do you play that?
charlie		It's like strip poker, only, without the bluffing.  One person says something and if the other one accepts that it's true, the one who says it, gets to take one item of clothing off.
maverick		You're crazy.  That's a pretty silly game.
charlie		Not as silly as some. You know the silliest one? ...that we are gods. That we control events on the beach... that we can turn back time...
charlie		Want to play the game?
maverick		How does it go?
charlie		You say the truth.  Go ahead. Don't be afraid. You want to win the game, don'tcha?
maverick		What truth?
charlie		The big one. The one that's most on your mind.
maverick		Goose is dead.
charlie		 True.
maverick		Now?
charlie		Take something off.
maverick		Off me or off you?
charlie		That's up to you.
charlie		It's dangerous...what you do.
maverick		It was my fault.
charlie		You can't bring him back.
maverick		It was my fault.
charlie		Nope. Already used that.
charlie		Your life goes on.
maverick		What does it mean?
charlie		 That wasn't fair. It was a question. Penalty round!
charlie		You didn't mean it. You didn't think. You'd do anything to take it back.
maverick		That's three.
charlie		And that's one!
maverick		One more.
charlie		Your watch.
maverick		You owe me one.
charlie		Looks like a tie.
maverick		Who's gonna win?
charlie		We'll say it together. On the count of three...One...two...
bothtogether		I love.ove y.you.
fungus		BOGEY AT TEN O'CLOCK LOW. YOU'VE GOT THE ANGLE -- PIECE OF CAKE.
fungus		ENGAGE, MAVERICK - ANYTIME.
fungus		WHAT? WHERE'RE YOU--HEY, WHERE IN THE HELL ARE YOU GOING?
maverick		DIDN'T ... AHHH...LOOK GOOD.
fungus		WHAT DO YOU MEAN? IT DOESN'T GET TO LOOK MUCH BETTER THAN THAT?
maverick		NO. NO GOOD.
jester		He just won't engage. He can't do it, Skipper. He can't get back on the horse.
viper		It's only been a week. Keep sending him up.
jester		I've seen this before.
viper		So have I.
jester		Some guys never get it back.
fungus		What are you doing?
maverick		Saving them some paperwork.
fungus		Since when did you care about paperwork?
fungus		If I could fly like you I'd have everything I want. If I could fly at all. I can't fly. I can't fly like that. Nobody can. Whatever it is, you've got it!
maverick		Not anymore.
fungus		So, you're scared--so what? You ever get a good look at me in the back seat, I'm goddamn terrified.
charlie		Never liked fighter pilots anyway.
maverick		You came to the right place.
charlie		I'll have what he's having... Hemlock, is it?
charlie		You weren't gonna say goodbye?
maverick		I was, later.
charlie		Long distance? I wouldn't do that to you. I'd at least talk to you.
maverick		I didn't want to see you. I mean, I did...but I didn't..
charlie		I know exactly what you mean.
maverick		How could you?
charlie		I've got a gift just like you do. My gift is I just know what people mean, even if they can't say it. It helps when you're trying to communicate with fighter pilots. Like what you just said was "I'm embarrassed, I feel I've done something wrong, that I've failed, and I don't think I can live up to the expectations of a wonderful interesting, intelligent woman like yourself." That about it?
maverick		 ...Something like that.
charlie		And I'm gonna sneak off, and be by myself for awhile, like until I can think of a new career...hotel management or something...
maverick		Big talk for someone who's never been shot off her computer.
charlie		Hey, I never said I was a fighter pilot...I never claimed to think it was fun to be shot off the end of a ship in a storm. I can find contentment in a good book. I don't have to roar by someone at Mach two with my hair on fire. Sometimes...I just get happy being with the right man.
maverick		I hope you find him.
charlie		I think I have... I could be wrong. I have been before. Just remember one thing. If you're not Top Gun, if you're not fighting jets, you're not gonna be able to act like a fighter pilot... You're gonna have to act like the rest of us. You're gonna have to master humility. For you guys, that's the toughest maneuver of all.
charlie		So long, Sailor. See you on the beach sometime.
tim		Dad...Of all the aminals in the ocean, which one's the baddest?
viper		I don't know, Tim. You'll have to ask them.
viper		Runs in the family...
maverick		Skipper, sorry to bother you.
viper		No bother.
maverick		I called your house.
viper		My wife's house.
maverick		She said you took your kid to the each. Every second Sunday. Zoo or beach or the ballgame. Y'have the option... What about me?
viper		We can send you back to your squadron with nothing noted on your record except "CNC" --course not completed, no explanation required. Theoretically, it doesn't hurt your career, but people always wonder about things like that.
maverick		Or....
viper		Or you can quit.
maverick		I don't know...
viper		I didn't know either. That's why I told Jester to prepare your papers.
maverick		You've already made up your mind.
viper		It's no disgrace, kid. That spin was hell. It would wreck anyone's confidence. You could be a good pilot again someday...
maverick		 You think I should quit?!
viper		I didn't say that. That's up to you. But I have responsibility for the other guys up there, not just you. They need to know you're all right...that they can depend on you.
maverick		Here, let me get this. We'll be even.
maverick		Lucky charm.
viper		Sometimes it's luck, but in this case, he earned it... I served with your old man.
maverick		I know.
viper		VF 51, the Oriskany. You remind me of him. You're just like he was, only better...and worse.
maverick		I'm nothing like him.
viper		You may not think so, but you are.
maverick		He was by the book, all the way.
viper		They waved him off. He thought he knew better. He hit the ramp.
maverick		I never heard that.
viper		Not something they tell dependents.
maverick		It's not true.
viper		Why would I lie?
viper		You start on a wrong heading... the more you stick to it, the further you get from your target. A good pilot always questions himself, always questions his judgments, stays alert for drift and makes the corrections...You may find a little discipline helps with the fear. You don't have to be alone up there.
maverick		How can I go on? I feel so... responsible.
viper		Kid, the plain fact is...you are. I'm not gonna stand here and blow sunshine up your ass. Technically, they absolved you. You and I know what really happened. You pushed it. You are responsible and you'll always carry that. You know what, I'll carry it too. I should have taken you out of that cockpit. I guess I'm a hopeless romantic... I always try to find something worthwhile in someone's death. It's no trade-off. It's not one for one. What you learned isn't worth his death. It couldn't be. But maybe there is some value in it. I know it's the first thing I've ever seen that's really gotten to you. Now the question is, what will you do with it. If it gets you out of flight status...so you don't kill yourself or anybody else...that's good. That's one good thing. You were an accident waiting to happen.
maverick		You think I shouldn't fly.
viper		I didn't say that. That's up to you. I think that if you do, if you choose to come back, you'll be a better pilot... a better man.
maverick		Would you take me back? Would they?
viper		I'll have to think about it. I don't know about them. I do know one thing, We've got a lot invested in you. We'd hate to lose it. Even more than those other guys, Naval Aviation needs a very few, very good men.
fungus		I don't know where he is...
pork		What are his plans?
fungus		I don't know.
wolfman		Good to see you, man.
viper		Gentlemen, you know how I hate to break up this party before it has a chance to get really out of hand...  ...but there's a major flap on.
hollywood		We're being called back?
viper		You're on your way. Don't bother going to BOQ. Your bags are packed.
stinger		...by unknown forces...by Migs. We don't know who they are.  All I know is that it's our ship, and our orders are to escort it out of the area.
slider		Ice and Hollywood, sector two.
slider		And Maverick. You'll back them up, on Ready Five.
maverick		Yessir.
ice		MUSTANG, THIS IS VOODOO ONE, WE ARE ON STATION.
hollywood		CONTACT. TWO BOGEYS 20 RIGHT. AT 12 MILES, CLOSING.
hollywood		TALLY HO. TWO MIGS AT TWO O'CLOCK LOW.
hollywood		WHAT ARE YOUR INTENTIONS, BOYS?
ice		THEY'RE JUST HASSELING. LET'S WORK THEM OUT OF THE AREA.
wolfman		I'VE GOT TWO MORE BOGEYS COMING IN AT FOUR O'CLOCK HIGH.
hollywood		GOT 'EM.
hollywood		TWO MORE -- TWO MORE CONTACTS. 2-7-0 at 10 MILES. WE NEED SOME HELP HERE, MUSTANG.
ice		MUSTANG, WE HAVE FOUR MIGS IN THE AREA OF BULLSEYE. REQUEST YOU LAUNCH THE ALERT 5 FOR SUPPORT.
ice		WOOD! WOOD, ACKNOWLEDGE!
ice		VOODOO ONE, MUSTANG. VOODOO THREE IS HIT. GOING DOWN. WILL ATTEMPT SAR.
slider		 No contact. I don't know.
maverick		VOODOO, GHOST RIDER ONE. I'M ON THE WAY. WAIT FOR ME.
slider		THEY GOT WOLF, THEY GOT WOOD. THEY GOT THEM..
ice		MUSTANG, GHOST RIDER. PERMISSION TO FIRE.
ice		ROGER. ENGAGING. I HAVE THE LEAD.
fungus		Let's go! Dive on those bastards!
fungus		Come on, man, engage. This is it. Get your nose in there.
fungus		Bandit at seven o'clock low--solo. Take him. Pull on the goddamn stick, man!
maverick		Okay, okay.
fungus		Don't tell me okay. Do it!
maverick		MAVERICK'S EMGAGED. HARD LEFT, ICE, PADLOCK THE EASTERN SECTION.
fungus		BREAK LEFT! BREAK LEFT!   CHAFF! FLARES!
maverick		BREAKING LEFT!
ice		TWO MIGS ON MY TAIL, MAVERICK. I'M DEFENSIVE.
slider		MAVERICK! SIX O'CLOCK!
slider		BANDIT, THREE O'OLOCK HIGH!
fungus		ICE'S  DEFENSIVE, HELP HIM OUT.
maverick		REVERSE RIGHT.
fungus		STAY WITH HIM. YOUR SIX IS CLEAR.
fungus		ONE ON OUR SIX! BUG OUT! BUG OUT!
maverick		OKAY, GOING UP. ICE, GO HIGH.
ice		LOOK OUT!
maverick		JESUS!
fungus		OHHHHH SHIT!
ice		GOOD TONE, FOX ONE
ice		Ah Nuts!
ice		Son of a bitch!
slider		JESUS!  HEY SPLASH ONE, SPLASH ONE BANDIT! SPLASH THAT SUCKER!
maverick		I GOT ONE HERE. ON THE NOSE. COMING DOWN.
ice		ON THE NOSE?
maverick		GOT 'EM. GOT GOOD TONE.
maverick		AH, SHIT! GODDAMN IT!
fungus		THERE'S ANOTHER ONE UP THERE!
maverick		I GOT ONE COMING UP.
fungus		AND HE'S GUNNING.
maverick		Zone 5 burners.
fungus		We're ballistic! Ohhhhhh Shit!
fungus		Ohhh Mother!
maverick		 Goddamnit, Mav, you really are a slow learner. Don't worry, Fung, I've got it.
fungus		Don't WORRY!!!?   You've GOT it!!? Are you CRAZY?
maverick		Roger, I've got it.
fungus		You've got it?   Good!  Cause for a minute there, you had me worried.
fungus		Now have you got it?  Have you still got it?
maverick		Yawing right.
fungus		I know!
maverick		Rudder's left, stick's forward.
fungus		Swell! Passing ten thousand!
maverick		I've got it -- hold on!
fungus		Passing 8. Passing 6. Lock your harness!
maverick		I can recover. Hold on!
maverick		You with me?
fungus		Right behind you.
fungus		5000 feet. Speed two hundred.
maverick		Okay.
maverick		No! Not again!
fungus		What are you talking about, we gotta go!
maverick		I'm not losing it again!
fungus		Gotta go, man.
maverick		280, 290, 300 knots.
fungus		3,000 feet.  We gotta go, man. 3,000 feet, we gotta go!
maverick		You go. I'm staying with it.
fungus		I'm gonna go! THREE...TWO...ONE...
fungus		ONE....ONE....ONE...
fungus		What  in  the  Christ...was that?
fungus		Did you plan that? Was all that something you planned?
maverick		ALL RIGHT, ICE. COME HARD STARBOARD, THEN EXTEND TO THE EAST.
fungus		Because...if that was... Next time you tell me first.
ice		ROG.
maverick		I GOT A WINDER LEFT, BUT NO GOOD TONE ON IT.
ice		I CAN'T LOSE HIM, CAN YOU GET OFF A SHOT?
maverick		I GOT NO TONE. IT MIGHT GET YOU.
ice		WHAT CHOICE DO I HAVE?   SHOOT IT.
maverick		HE FIRED, BREAK NOW!
maverick		He's out! We got him!
fungus		What a dope! Maybe they'll give him another plane...and we can shoot him down again.
fungus		What is it? What's wrong?
fungus		Is there something I should know?
maverick		Just relax.
fungus		Is it the plane?
maverick		The plane is fine.
fungus		Is it you?
maverick		Yeah, I guess it is. We did it! We did it...Damn! We sure did it!
maverick		HELLO MUSTANG, THIS IS MAVERICK. I'VE GOT A MESSAGE FOR STINGER.
maverick		TELL STINGER MAVERICK HAS GOOD NEWS AND SOME BAD NEWS. THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT ICE GOT A MIG. THE BAD NEWS IS THAT MAVERICK GOT TWO!
maverick		I GOTTA HAVE ONE.
slider		We're low on fuel, Ice.
ice		I know. I know....Aw hell, let's do it!
fungus		You're not supposed to...
maverick		But I have to!
fungus		Then...shit! Go ahead. I'm right behind you.
maverick		MUSTANG, THIS IS MAVERICK, REQUEST A FLYBY.
air boss		NEGATIVE, GHOST RIDER, THE PATTERN'S FULL.
officer		Who is that guy?
admiral		Mitchell...
xo		 ...Likes to break at 600, 'stead of 300 knots. The Air Boss hates him. One time, he came over the deck at two hundred, shakes the shit out of the bridge. Lifted Johnson right off his feet.
maverick		BOSS, YOU BETTER CLEAR IT OUT, WE'RE FIVE MINUTES OUT AND WE'RE DOING IT!
air boss		MUSTANG TO GHOST RIDER!...
admiral		Johnson!
air boss		Yes, Sir, Admiral?
admiral		Give him his flyby.
air boss		 ROGER, GHOST RIDER, YOU'RE CLEAR.
air boss		Goddamn that guy!"
ice		I guess I owe you one.
maverick		You don't owe me anything. We're on the same team.
ice		You saved our lives. You did it!
maverick		We did it.
ice		You're a hell of a flyer.  You can be my wingman any time.
maverick		 No. You can be mine!
ice		Whatever you say, Commander.
fungus		What happened to you?
wolfman		He got our radio, and an engine. We were lucky to make it back.
hollywood		Not luck. Skill.
stinger		MiG killers! You name it, boy. Sky's the limit. You name it. A medal. Anything you want. Anything.
ice		MiG killers!  What else is there?
fungus		You hear that? Anything we want. Anything...Well???
maverick		Well what?
fungus		What do you want?
maverick		What do I want?
fungus		What do you want?
maverick		 Any more MiGs?
stinger		They don't seem to want to come up anymore. There's nothing on the scopes. In fact, everybody's denying the incident ever happened. So...what is it?  What do you want?
jester		Who's the hell is that?
viper		Three guesses.
jester		Well, he's in trouble and he didn't even get here yet.
viper		Come on.
fungus		I think they know we're here.
maverick		Let me do the talking.
fungus		Oh, no. You did the flying, I'll do the talking!
fungus		Why Admiral....How really good it is to see you!
a voice		Who's in charge here?
maverick		I am.
charlie		Not for long, you keep that up.
charlie		Well?
maverick		Well what?
charlie		You got your F-14, you got Top Gun, you got your MiGs....You're our new Top Gun instructor...Now what?
maverick		Oh...I'll think of something... What are you doing here?
charlie		I live here, remember?
maverick		Right on the flight line?
charlie		Everybody's got to be somewhere.
maverick		Maybe your somewhere's with me...
maverick		That's okay. I always look forward to a challenge.
****Dialogues from script :Total_Recall.txt****

clock		 Tick, tock, seven o'clock.  Time to rise and open your eyes.
clock		 Tick, tock, seven-oh-one.  Time to get up, the day had begun.
clock		 Tick, tock --
quail		I dreamed about Mars again... it was bizarre, yet is was so real...
kirsten		 It's your time of the month again.
kirsten		 At least once a month.  Douglas Quail's obsession.  For twelve years you've been talking about Mars.
quail		People do go to Mars, you know.
kirsten		That's right, Douglas.  But not you.  Not us.
kirsten		 As it is, we can barely scrape by on your lousy ten thousand a week.
kirsten		 What do they expect ... the way men dress these days ... then they scream rape.
quail		You know -- let's really do it.
kirsten		Rape men in the park?
quail		No.  Go to Mars.
kirsten		 Go to hell.
quail		We can pool our savings and I've got some sick leave coming, besides my regular vacation...
kirsten		 ...more of a half-wit.  For a start a war could break out there any day ...
quail		That's just media talk.  They're...  ...just a minority.  They're powerless.
kirsten		Well, there's a lot of things we need around here before we waste our money on a trip to Mars.  We're broke.  I'm just a slave around this dump. Now if you were capable of finding a better job....
clock		It's now eight.  You'll be late!
quail		I'll be late!
guard		No weapon again, Mr. Quail?
quail		I keep forgetting, Herb.  They frighten me.
guard		Yeah?  Well, it's the law, Mr. Quail.  Has been since 1990 they tell me.  Tomorrow - ya carry ya gun or ya get reported.
quail		Okay.  Herb, okay.
newscaster		 ...but Earth Intelligence Operations Director Vilos Cohaagen, clearly worried about the damage to Mars's all important tourist industry was today dismissive of the dissident groups....
cohaagen		We're dealing with a bunch of extremists and unrepresentative lunatics.  Mars is a happy and prosperous protectorate of Earth... and will remain so.
cohaagen		I have no further comment.
announcer		Good morning, commuters.  This portion of your trip is brought to you by Rekall, Inc.  Do you have a dream that never came true?  Do you aspire - but only perspire?  Has the great adventure passed you by?  Then come to... REKALL, where what might have been will have been. For the memories of a lifetime... REKALL.
quail		But... is the process really that effective?  A false memory!?
quail		Is it in any way dangerous? I mean, the medical techniques?
quail		It's just - incredible.
quail		But... I'll know I hired you. That'll destroy the whole illusion.
quail		I won't?
quail		"Intelligence Agent"... wouldn't that be dangerous?  I might attack....
quail		I don't know... about the whole thing... it's all such a fake.  I won't really have gone.  I won't really....
quail		You know that's illegal.
kirsten		Yeah?  Who's going to report me?  You?... wimp....
kirsten		 Screwing around's illegal, too.  But just give me half a chance...
old lady		Hi, I'm Doctor Sophie Lull. Sorry I'm late.  I'll be right with you.
quail		 This really going to work?
lull		It the Pope Martian?
lull		Now, just relax, kid.  This ain't gonna hurt.  Just a controlled drip of Narkadine. When you're under, I'll just ask ya a few questions, nothin' real personal, just full details of yer private life so's we can tailor the wish-fulfillment program to your needs.
lull		 See?  Painless.  I didn't feel a thing.  Hey, you're a nice kid... you like a little somethin' extra?
lull		 Good.  Now, what's the first thing you think of when you're thinkin' about Mars?
quail		 Well... I'd like to see the Martian Sphinx...
lull		Okay -- you will, Dougle!  I want ya to start counting backwards from a hundred for me.
quail		 One hundred... ninety-nine... ninety-eight... ninety-seven... ninety-six... ninety-five....
lull		Okay, Ernie, the trip to Mars; number sixty-two... and throw in that blonde... We'll give him a real good time.
ernie		Sixty-two... and... the blonde...
ernie		Boy, is this one wild.  He won't want to come back.
lull		Dougie?  This Sophie Lull. Can ya hear me?
quail		...Sophie....
lull		Good! ... I'm gonna ask ya a few more questions now.  Ya think you'll be able to answer 'em?
quail		...Yes....
lull		Attaboy!  To begin with, I wanna ask ya; -- You sex life.  How many orgasms a week?
lull		 Quail?  Dougie, can you hear me?
quail		Yes.
lull		Tell McClane what you told us.
quail		 All of you in this room are dead.
quail		You've broken my cover.
lull		The Narkadine cracked a memory cap.  Mars --  He's really been there.
ernie		With spontaneous breakthrough.
quail		 You've compromised the Sphinx Project.  You'll have to be silenced.
quail		My name isn't Quail.
quail		I believe you, but that won't stop E.T.O. from killing you.
quail		 Killing you... killing you... killing you....
lull		 Someone at Earth Intelligence Operations erased his memory. All he know was going to Mars meant something special to him.
ernie		What do we do?  Graft a false memory pattern over the real memory of the same thing?
lull		 Uh-uh... That could promote a partial breakthrough of the real trip.
lull		Why don't we just wipe out the memory of his visit here?
quail		Where am I?
driver		Travelling south along Third Avenue, passing Fourty-third street.
quail		Where am I going?
driver		Thirty-three thirteen "G" Street, Sector "L", Twin Towers, Apartment six-thirty- five.
quail		How did I get here?
driver		I don not understand the question, sir or madam.
quail		How did I get into this cab?
driver		You stepped into it in the normal manner, sir or madam.
quail		Mr. Zimmer...Mr. Zimmer... help me... they're...
quail		Where are you taking me?
quail		But I didn't... Are you telling me... I did go to Mars?  I don't remember?
quail		 Sphinx?... No, no, I don't, I... What about the people at Rekall?  I don't recall Rekall but you said if they know what I did?  Why don't you ask them?  They'll tell you I didn't...
quail		What do you mean?
quail		 What are you going to do with me?
quail		My God!  No!  You're going to kill me!
quail		No!  It's not my fault!  You can't do it!
quail		 Wait a minute, I remember --
quail		On Mars... they tried to kill me... And....
quail		Did you know I've been to Mars?
kirsten		What!  This stupid obsess...
quail		 I think I've been.  I vaguely recall...
kirsten		Doug, you've got to forget...
quail		 Forget?  Remembering is the problem I must've been to one of those artificial memory places...
kirsten		Oh my God...
quail		But something went wrong... something about a real memory... and then those men...  tried to kill me.
kirsten		What men?  Doug, you're crazy.
kirsten		 You're here now.  They didn't kill you.
quail		No.  That's what's so amazing. I killed them.  I think...
kirsten		Where?  Where are they?
kirsten		 Doug!  It's something they put into your mind at the memory place.  Fantasies. That's their business.
kirsten		 You're a computer operator. You're a bore.  You're a wimp.  You're not a killer.
quail		I'm involved somehow with E.I.O.  It's true.  It's no fantasy.
kirsten		Doug, I want you to see a doctor.  Now Alec and Shirley Turnbull have a good man.  He helped Alec through his breakdown.
quail		For fuck's sake, this is no breakdown!
quail		My God!  Did you say I need a psychiatrist?
kirsten		 I haven't seen you move that fast since I've known you.
quail		 How could you do it?  After eight years!
kirsten		I'm not your wife, Quail.
quail		Not my wife!  You are out of your mind.
kirsten		 It's a false memory implant. I never saw you before six weeks ago.
quail		Why are you lying like this?
kirsten		No, Quail.  It's true.  You work for E.I.O.  So do I.
quail		 But why all of this?
kirsten		 We had to watchdog you...make sure the erasure took.  A wife seemed like a good idea.
quail		But I remember it!  All of it!... Us!
kirsten		All implanted.
quail		Our friends... my work... eight years.
kirsten		The job's real -- you've had is six weeks -- since you got back from Mars.
kirsten		 It's all a fabrication, Quail. Everything you know.
quail		This is crazy!  If all my memories are false, who am I?  What am I?  Jesus... it's like I don't exist.
kirsten		You exist, all right.  That's the problem.
quail		Why did you try to kill me? Why does E.I.O. want me dead?
kirsten		They don't particularly.  That was my idea.  This assignment was boring me to death.  The personality they gave you wasn't too thrilling.
quail		Well, what did I do on Mars that they have to keep me from telling?
kirsten		I've no idea.  I just work here.
quail		All right... I'm leaving. Don't try and follow me --
kirsten		I don't have to follow you. You can't get away from E.I.O. Nobody does.
quail		No wonder you got the role as my bitchy wife -- type casting.
first gunman		Fuck it!
earplug wearer		Coming in again.  Loud and clear.
robot driver		 You are being fired on, sir or madam, please leave the cab at once.
robot driver		[Please....]
robot driver		 ...leave the cab as bullets are hitting the vehicle in considerable quantities.
robot driver		This company, sir or madam, will institute legal action for damages...
desk clerk		 Help you, sir?
quail		 A room for the night.
desk clerk		 ID.
quail		 Here's ten thousand.  Forget the ID.
quail		 I have a liaison with a lady... and I'm married...
desk clerk		I understand, sir.  Nothing like a bit on the side, eh? Bit of fugitive flesh.  The greatest aphrodisiac is a new body, wouldn't you say, sir?
quail		 I told you, I don't want to be disturbed.
telephone voice		 If you want to live, don't hand up.
telephone voice		 And don't bother shaking down your clothes -- the monitor is embedded in your skull.
quail		 Who are you?  What the hell is this?
telephone voice		Take a wet towel and wrap it around your head.  That will deaden the signal.  It'll take longer for them to pinpoint you.
quail		Why should I trust you?
telephone voice		 There's a real old saying - "Beggars can't be choosers". Go and soak your head!
earphone wearer		Shit!
driver		Cut the language, will ya?
earphone wearer		It's gone!  Some...malfunction...
driver		 Toldya the Martian assembled [stuff don't work.]
quail		Keep talking.
telephone voice		 Head over to Skid Row -- to the Lucky Stub Pawnshop -- corner of Park Avenue and Fifty-eighth.  Tell the man you're Mr. Hotchkiss; you came for your Grecian candlesticks.
quail		 What do I want with Grecian candlesticks!
telephone voice		Just do it!  This is no time for small talk.
telephone voice		I've been tailing you since you get back from Mars.
quail		You're E.I.O.  You're on the other team.
telephone voice		 I'm E.I.O.  But I was your best friend.  Scott Stevens - we arranged this...
quail		 I can't remember - only bits...
telephone voice		 I was your fail-safe -- if and when the shooting started. Good luck.  Look me up if you remember me.
earphone wearer		Quick.  The guy who checked in fifteen minutes ago.
clerk		 Room...thirty-six.
clerk		 He was only meeting a lady... Aren't you guys overdoing it a bit?
pawnbroker		You wanta camera?  I got some good, top-quality ones.  You want silk rugs?  Handmade last century in Iran...all perfect. You want videos?  Old movies... classics...all those Vietnam war ones...real quaint stuff... you want...
quail		 I'm Hotchkiss...I came for the...Grecian candlesticks...
quail		 I wonder if you could tell me...
pawnbroker		I trust these will look well in you... mosque.
quail		 Martian money....
quail		 What the hell...?
earplug wearer		It's come on again.
driver		Where?
earplug wearer		He's in that old flophouse. Plaza Hotel.  Central Park South.
earplug wearer		Boy, he's really moving around.
earplug wearer		Ya dirty rat!
cohaagen		 Anything?
supervisor		We're running every one of his memory tapes for the past fifteen years.  Nothing yet, sir.
cohaagen		There must be something -- some place he would go, some friend he would run to.
cohaagen		Again?!
cohaagen		 Are you sure the original suppression took?
supervisor		Absolutely, sir.  He thinks he's Quail, a computer...
cohaagen		 Then how do you explain what he's doing?
supervisor		Just his instincts.  He was well trained by E.I.O.... Maybe the memory cap's fractured. Portions of his prior identity could be leaking through.
cohaagen		 He'll remember Mars?  The Sphinx Project?
supervisor		Fragments.  Nothing more. Nothing he could piece together. I did advise terminating him, rather than implanting an identify alternative.
cohaagen		What do you think I am?  A barbarian?  We're not living in the twentieth century!
cohaagen		 Hold it there.
quail		It's no Garden of Eden.
tour organiser		No.  Quite a bit to see, though. The canyons, the old Sphinx...
quail		What do you know about that?
tour oraniser		Not much, really.  Millions of years old.  Bit like the one that used to be in Egypt, you know...
quail		Yeah.  Got destroyed in the Arab wars... What about this independence movement?
tour organiser		 Not worth worrying about. Mostly descendants of the original colonists from Earth. Now they want self-rule so they can sell us all the minerals... I don't think we've met.  You with our group?  Takes me a while to know everyone.
quail		Sure.  Douglas Quail.
tour organiser		Richard Toltz.  Well, Doug, I hope we'll see a lot more of each other.
boy		Smogpsucker!
doorman		You know how it is, sir.  Some of these red-asses are a bit prejudiced.
quail		Prejudiced?  Against what?
doorman		Earthmen.
quail		What are they singing?
doorman		The Martian National Anthem.
canned voice		"...the Martian Sphinx... only evidence of non-human civilization ever discovered ...age estimated at over eighteen million years...
clerk		Nice to have you back with us, Mr. Hauser.
quail		Nice to be back.  I'm flattered you remember me.
clerk		Part of my job, sir.
quail		 Do you remember my first name, too?
clerk		Charles.  Charles Hauser, right?
quail		I'm impressed.  Listen.  I need transportation to the... uh... the Sphinx. Can you arrange it for me?
clerk		I'm sorry, sir.  But Earth government has sealed off the excavation site completely. No one but survey teams and archaeologists are allowed closer than twenty miles.
clerk		Oh...  Do you want the item you left with us?
quail		What item?  Oh... yes, please.
bennie		 Mine's right around the corner.
quail		 That one's closer.
bennie		But I out-hustle him, right?
quail		 Right.
quail		What is this, Bennie... Tombstone?
bennie		Sorta.  Bunch of miners out here got their own claims, from way back.  Cohaagen's buyin' em all up, says he's gonna cut off the air an' water if they won't sell...
quail		I'm looking for Melina Noel.
bartender		You've found her.
melina		You bastard!
melina		 You bastard...
melina		 Well?
quail		Well, uh... I...
melina		All right, I'll say it for you.
melina		 Don't worry.  I got the note. You discharged your obligation.
quail		What note?
melina		Oh, the usual one.  "Must return immediately to Earth... the wife needs me..."
quail		I don't have a wife.  Well, I do - but not a real wife.  Hell... look... someone else sent that note.  Someone who --
melina		What are you here for?!
quail		For you!  I don't even know why --
quail		 Whoever I was, I must have been a helluva guy.
melina		"Whoever you were"???
quail		Listen.  I've for to tell  you something.  I beg you to believe me... help me --
quail		 Something happened to my mind. Memory suppression, false implant, I don't know what --
quail		 What I'm saying is... I don't remember you.  I don't remember us.  I don't remember me --
melina		[And I thought...]
quail		Who is us?
melina		 Memory erasure is what they use on agents.  Go away.
quail		Wait... I was an agent -- I'm not now -- just tell me who I am!  How did we know each other?  Why are they trying to kill me?!
melina		I'm not trusting you again.
quail		You loved me once, you must have --
melina		That you was a liar.  Who you are now I don't even know.
quail		Please, Melina --
melina		 Get out!
quail		I need your help --
melina		 Get out!  Get the hell away from me!
bennie		You don't look so good, boss. All over the Universe, women is an awful curse.
bennie		It's a tough planet, boss.
quail		Yeah, right.
bennie		Some guy really screwed her - screwed her up real good. Some Earthman.  Just hopped on a space shuttle.
quail		Listen, Bennie.  You're pretty well informed?
bennie		If that means I know it all, you're right, boss.
quail		What do you know about the Sphinx?
bennie		I don't know nothin'.  Not about the Sphinx.  That's out of the ball park.
quail		I have to get there.  Can't you help me?
bennie		No can do, mon.  You want women, cigarettes, red-market money, booze, even air or water... Bennie's your man. But the Sphinx... that's E.I.O. --
bennie		Well... look at that one, eh?
quail		What?
bennie		Big cheese in town.  Big smelly cheese.
quail		Cohaagen?  But isn't he often here?
bennie		No way.  That cat just cheat the Martian workers without ever leavin' his place in Beverly Hills.  Somethin' must be cookin'.
quail		Who is it?
quail		 Who are you?
quail		 Rekall??
edgemar		Hello, Mr. Quail.  May I come in?  I won't be offended if you prefer to keep the gun you're holding trained on me.
quail		All right... come in.
edgemar		My card, Mr. Quail.
quail		Okay -- so you're Doctor George Edgemar of 'Rekall, Inc.'  So?
edgemar		As I said... this is going to be very difficult -- for both of us.
quail		I'm listening.
edgemar		Mr. Quail... I'm afraid you're not really standing here at this moment.
quail		Sat that again.
edgemar		I said, you're not really here.  Neither am I.  We're both in the Memory Studio -- in the offices of Rekall, Inc. On Earth.
quail		Are you trying to tell me that this is all part of some... artificially injected fantasy? That I never really left Earth?
edgemar		No, not quite.  We didn't give you this.  You're creating it yourself --  Remember the option we offered you?  Intelligence agent? Something inside you liked that idea, fastened on it. What you're experiencing now is a free-form delusion that you yourself are fabricating.
quail		What is this shit you're giving me?
edgemar		This is not -- shit, Mr. Quail. It's the truth.  I know it's very hard for you to accept, but you're having a schizophrenic reaction... we can't snap you out of the Narkadine.  You're in a world of your own fantasy.
quail		Then how the hell can you be in my dream -- if you know it's just a dream?
edgemar		I've been artificially implanted -- like the first part of your fantasy.  I'm actually monitoring your dream at a psychoprobe console. This is a last resort.  When somebody gets stuck in their own fantasy, we send in someone after them.  A specialist, like myself.
quail		I don't believe a word you're saying.
edgemar		I was afraid you'd think that. I'm sorry to have to do this, but you really are stuck.  Doctor Noel, would you come in now please?
melina		Yes, Mr. Quail, I'm afraid it's all true.
melina		 I tried to break through to you earlier, but you just molded me into your fantasy. Sometimes it takes Dr. Edgemar to get through to a client as tough as you.
quail		 So what's supposed to happen now?
edgemar		Just do exactly as we tell you.
quail		 Somehow that doesn't appeal to me.
melina		Please, Mr. Quail... try to cooperate.  You're having a schizophrenic embolism.
edgemar		If we can't get you out now... you may never come out of it. Your wife calls every day --
quail		If this is a fantasy, there'll be no real consequences when I pull this trigger.
edgemar		But there will by consequences inside your mind.  Consequences that won't hurt me... but could be fatal to you.  If you shoot me, you'll wipe me out of your fantasy -- I can't come back again.  Because to you, I'll be dead.  I can't help you get back to reality. You'll be stuck in permanent psychosis.
edgemar		You're going to lower the gun, Mr. Quail.  You're going to hand it to me --
edgemar		You're going to do exactly what I tell you --
melina		Watch out, Charles!  There's more of them in the hall!
melina		 There's an explosive in the clipboard!  He has a dead-man switch in his hand!
quail		What happens it I come out?
quail		All right.  Here comes the weapon.
quail		Back in, quick!
waiter		Wouldn't you prefer your order in your room, sir?
quail		In!
quail		Okay.  Answers!  Now!
melina		They kidnapped me.  Said they'd kill you if I didn't cooperate.  I told them I didn't care, but then when I realized they meant it...
quail		I don't know why they're after me, but what's your connection with all this?
melina		We were together before.
quail		Believe me, I'm really sorry I can't recall the details of that encounter.
melina		Go, Bennie, for God's sake!
bennie		 Bad news, boss lady.
melina		What?
bennie		Black cruiser just pull out behind us.
bennie		Forget the shooter, boss.  I lose 'em for you.
quail		Lose them?  In this?
bennie		Hang on!
quail		 You're gonna get a ticket for that engine, Bennie --
bennie		Yutani 650 -- you like it, boss?  Nothing like the old gas when you want a bit of speed.
melina		You better have two aces, Bennie.  There's a second cruiser -- and it's gaining --
cohaagen		I take it, then, you've failed to get him again.
cohaagen		 Proceed with Operation Sphinx.
emile		But, sir...
cohaagen		With him...  ...on the lose, I'm not taking any more chances. Operation Sphinx will flush him out.
quail		What's all this?
bennie		Nothin', boss.  Just old smokies.  Only place they can come for a puff.  It's all banned topside.
quail		So you two are into something a bit more serious than the taxi and truck-stop business.
bennie		That's right, boss.
quail		My God!... T-shirts.  They died out on Earth years ago.
bennie		 Well, maybe we ain't fashion leaders, boss.
melina		No.  But we still believe in a free Mars.
quail		So where did I fit into all this?
melina		You - when you were Charles Hauser with E.I.O - infiltrated our group.  I guess Cohaagen didn't trust you any more when you and I...
quail		Yeah.  And I can't even remember it.  We'll have to arrange a return bout.
melina		...so he had your memory wiped and fixed you up with a new identity.
quail		But - the Sphinx.  Why is that stuck in my mind?  Why's it so important?
melina		I don't know.
bennie		Just an ole heap o' stone, boss.
quail		It's more than that, Bennie, I know it's more.  Somehow it's connected.
melina		 Maybe there's a way  you can get your memory back.
quail		How?  What?  Where?  When?
melina		A bit of Martian Wisdom. We're not all stupid colonists.
melina		He's doing it!
quail		What?  Why?
melina		Clearing everyone out!  It's been rumored for months...
quail		Wow.  I can see why I was willing to betray E.I.O.
melina		I though you believed in our cause?
quail		Yes.  Of course.  That, too.
strange man		 Your servant, Fahreem Kuato. I greet you by the twenty-seven names that still remain, praying that you cast jewels into the darkness and given them to glow with the colors of life.
quail		What use is this weirdo?
melina		Ssssh...there are skills on mars that Earth has forgotten.
kuato		No need to introduce yourself, Mr. Quail.  Tolerate my presumption, but it does not tax my powers to know that you are the most sought-after man on two worlds.
kuato		 -- and very little time.
kuato		The turbulence you hear outside is but a reflection of the turmoil within you. You have brought it to Mars in your search for yourself.
quail		And you're going to help me by reading my mind?
kuato		Indubitably.  There is only small matter of a fee.
quail		A fee!
kauto		Naturally.
melina		This is for our cause!
kuato		 Income before ideals.  Shall we say five-hundred-thousand dollars?
kuato		Not Martian dollars, Mr. Quail - Earth dollars.
melina		That's interplanetary robbery!
quail		With today's exchange rate... that's over two million Martian dollars!
kuato		 What price do you put, Mr. Quail, on the future of the solar system?
bennie		Aw, come off it, man.  Just for a bit of mumbo-jumbo with a crystal ball.
kuato		 Listen, buster, we're talking heavy stuff here.  You try and work out what's with this guy!
quail		Okay!  Okay!  I'll pay it, but the Interstellar Trade Practices Commission might be interested in this.
kuato		Retrieving the past is like walking backwards along a perilous road.  The half-recalled, the half-forgotten, the repressed, the fantasies, the triumphs, joys, failures, betrayals...
kuato		 I will be scanning you through the Oracle Head.
oracle head		Do not fear me.  I need your openness...
oracle head		 Open you thoughts to my presence...
oracle head		 Open...
melina		 Charles!  Are you all right?
melina		 He kept dragging you deeper and deeper into the trance! We couldn't wake either of you!
bennie		You stopped breathing!
quail		Why did you kill him?  It was the next bit I really...
bennie		No choice, boss.  It was him or you.
bennie		Phobos and Demos!  What was that all about?
melina		Are you okay?... Charles? Doug?  Whoever?
quail		 I'm fine... only I'm not Doug -- I'm Charles Hauser... and I know everything Hauser knew.
quail		 Bennie, where's your depot?
bennie		 Well... you go outta here... take a left, then down past the first... no second... water bureau you...
quail		 Can you get us there?
bennie		No problem.
melina		But why?
quail		We're going to the Sphinx.
bennie		Impossible, man.  Guards everywhere.
melina		The Oracle... what did you learn?
quail		Only everything.  I've got total recall.
bennie		We'll never get near the Sphinx!  They'll blow us apart!
melina		What are we doing, Charles? For God's sake, tell us.
quail		The Sphinx... it's not some useless artifact, it's a machine built by some alien race eighteen millions years ago.  The same race that built the on one Earth... for the same purpose.
quail		 This is what we need.
bennie		 It's a hunk of old stone, man.
melina		 Purpose?  What purpose?
quail		Come on, Bennie, move it.  Have you heard the word, "terriform"?
bennie		 Just deliverin' some old junk to the mine out at Apidalia Planitia.  Got them people you're lookin' for in the back as well.
quail		The machine in the Sphinx is tapped straight down to the molten core of this planet. There are tunnels and ducts everywhere, all powered by fusion generators...
bennie		You sure the little man didn't fry your brain, Quail?
melina		 For what?  To do what?
quail		To combine elements in the Martian core and release them as oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen.
bennie		That's air!
quail		That's right.  Air and water. Terriforming will create a permanent livable environment for Mars.  No more pressurized cities, no more containers in the desert.  There'll be rivers, vegetation - life - the same as Earth.
melina		 So why is Cohaagen shipping everyone out?
quail		Don't you see?!  From being a pile of red dirt with minerals, Mars is going to change into  a chunk of priceless real estate.
melina		And Cohaagen's going to own it all!
quail		Right!  He can start selling it off to well-heeled investors from Earth.  Beach condos, ski resorts, you name it.
melina		No wonder he wanted you to... penetrate... out group.
quail		 Once word of this gets out, the whole planet will support you.
melina		So what can we do?
quail		Ruin his little scheme by terriforming ahead of schedule - while the inhabitants are still here.
melina		But who'll work the machine? Do you know how?
quail		I'm the only one who does. Why do you think Cohaagen's left me alone all this time?
quail		I was the first one inside when they cracked the riddle of the Sphinx.  It must've been programmed.  Some kind of...force...shot into me.
melina		But Cohaagen wiped your memory!!!
quail		 Just a way of putting me on ice.  He'd of reversed it once the planet was evacuated.
bennie		Man!  This is real complicated. Go over it again, real slow.
quail		 What he hadn't counted on was your effect on me.
melina		 And all without the marvels of modern science!
quail		Bennie, don't stop now, take it...
melina		You bastard.
bennie		Like I said.  It's a tough planet.  I'm a baddie, not a goodie.
quail		I should have known, you were just too helpful.
bennie		EIO Rule One, man.  Trust Nobody.  Now you can do your terriforming stuff right when those space shuttles are gone.
melina		But what about the Martian people?  Out cause?  I thought you believed in it.
bennie		Your cause?  That bunch of dead beat radicals!  When I hand in this little number...  ...I'll get real estate rights on the whole of Chryse Planitia...
bennie		This makes Bennie a cut above anyone else.
quail		 Hope I've got this direction right.
cohaagen		The air supply is off under the domes?
emile		Yes, sir.  In a couple of hours it'll be all gone.
cohaagen		Any trouble with the rabble?
emile		Not much, sir.  A lot of complaining.  But they're all heading towards the shuttle areas.
melina		We got in with this thing, but we'll never get back out.
quail		A shame.  Such a pleasant trip.
quail		 This is the main tap -- straight down to the core of Mars.  When we trigger the mechanism, fusion reactors will detonate down there -- four hundred miles deep.
melina		Remind me not to slip.
quail		The new elements will come booming up through this shaft -- and six thousand others all around the planet.
guard leader		 Stay in contact.  I want to hear from this checkpoint every four minutes.
melina		 Where'd you get that little trick?
quail		 Mail-order company.  It's a great one for fooling the wife.
cohaagen		How the hell did they get in?
security aide		Up the fusion core.
cohaagen		Up the fusion core??
security aide		 They're on Level One.
cohaagen		Seal all upper levels.
quail		 Know how to use one of these?
quail		Catch! He hurls something toward the armed men in the elevator. Instinctively one of them reaches for the thrown object. It is an explosive device of some sort.  Quail and Melina press themselves against the wall just around a corner from the elevator.  There is a tremendous explosion.
melina		Great stuff, but how do we get up?
cohaagen		Forget them.  We'll pick up Quail once the shuttles have left for Earth.
quail		If you're afraid of the heights, you better get over it real quick.
emile		If Quail's the only one who can operate all this...  ...then he can call all the shots.
cohaagen		We'll tell him the computer's worked out the operational details so we don't really need him.  We're just doing him a favor.
emile		And if that doesn't work?
cohaagen		We offer him rewards.
emile		What if that doesn't work?
cohaagen		We'll torture him.  You don't think I got this far by being a nice guy?
operator		First of the shuttles ready for departure, sir.  Two minute countdown.
cohaagen		Seal the breach!  Repressurize!
melina		Those shuttles are starting up any minute.  If you know how to work this thing, you better do it now.
quail		Yes...
melina		Don't you know how?
quail		Yes... there's a vital connection missing...
quail		 ...me...
cohaagen		Wait!
melina		Don't wait!
cohaagen		If you activate the mechanism you'll die...there were glimpses of it in your memory.
quail		Wrong, Cohaagen, there's a long tunnel, a brilliant white light, hands reaching for me...
cohaagen		 That's your death.  That's what it looks like.  That's what is always looks like.
melina		 Charles - for Mars's sake....
cohaagen		It's not too late.  Join us again.  U've a lot to offer. A whole world.
quail		You don't deserve a new world, you and people like you made too big a mess of the old one. Time someone else had a chance.
quail		Am I dying?
masked miner		I won't lie to you, pal. You are.
melina		It's happening.
miner		What is it?
quail		That's just the start.  Next there'll be rain and growth and ... life.
quail		 Rekall could never have come up with anything like this.
****Dialogues from script :Tourist.txt****

waiter		She's waiting for someone.
younger waiter		Probably waiting for me.
waiter		The door's waiting for you if you don't get back to work.
messenger		C'est vous, Mademoiselle?
cara		Oui.
younger waiter		Mademoiselle!    Je vous en prie--
wife		What are you doing Vincent?   Our train car is over here!
cara		Ow!
frank		Sorry!   Excuse me. Pardone moi.
cara		I think I'm going to need your help.
frank		Hmm?
cara		My zipper...  It's stuck.
frank		I'm afraid of hurting you.
cara		Don't be afraid.
frank		I'm... sorry.
cara		It doesn't matter.
frank		Maybe I should let you do this--
cara		Don't give up so quickly.
frank		My name is Frank.
cara		Cara.
steward		 Will you and your wife take dinner here or in the dining car this evening, monsieur?
frank		Pardon me?   Oh, no.   We're not actually--
cara		The dining car would be lovely, thank you.
cara		Are you ill?
frank		What?   No.
cara		 So you decided to take a holiday on the Orient Express?
frank		I'm on my honeymoon.
cara		Your honeymoon?
frank		She's in Pennsylvania.
cara		If you'd like to tell me.
frank		Two weeks ago she left me. For the owner of a pizza parlor.
cara		That's awful.
frank		No travel insurance. No refund on the tickets. So... here I am. On my honeymoon.
cara		I'm sorry, Frank.
frank		I really loved that pizza too. "Bala Pizza" if you're ever in Rosemont.
cara		I wouldn't touch it.    I'm loyal to you.
waiter		A Cointreau for Mademoiselle. And for Monsieur... a "Miller Light."
frank		Thanks.
cara		You read spy novels. 
frank		Okay... you'd be a diplomatic attach or... let's see... a girl from East Germany whose father's been kidnapped by Soviet agents. They're blackmailing you into stealing... probably a microchip. There's usually a microchip involved.
cara		What awaits me?
frank		Trouble, certainly.
cara		Danger?
frank		No doubt. You'll probably be shot at in less than two chapters.
cara		Is there a man in my life?
frank		Maybe.
jones		We're putting a lot resources into this investigation, John. Tell me you're going to get him this time.
ackerman		 We're going to get him this time, Ms. Jones.
goyal		She's on the train. They'll be in Venice in the morning.
ackerman		Our target's name is Alexander Pearce. British citizen, born in London into an ordinary middle class family. The only thing remarkable about his childhood was a preternatural gift for numbers.
jean luc		Your mastermind couldn't pass his exams on his own?
ackerman		He didn't fix his test scores; he fixed the scores for all the girls in the class. It made him very popular.
quinn		You've assembled quite a task force to catch a common money launderer, Mr. Ackerman.
ackerman		There is nothing common about Alexander Pearce. Quiet simply, he has turned money laundering into an art form. His greatest innovation: The False Lawsuit.
quinn		 The money travels from America to the Cayman Islands...
ackerman		Yes, but now the money is legal.
jones		Not quite legal. The I.R.S. has been cheated out of the revenue.  We calculate that Mr. Pearce's tax bill currently stands at $743.7 million dollars.
jean luc		 That explains what the American harridan is doing here.
jones		Exactement, monsieur.
ackerman		Mr. Pearce has some other debts as well. Most of you will recognize Ivan Demidov...
jones		 The U.S. Government is not participating in an investigation of a member of the Russian parliament; our target is Alexander Pearce.
ackerman		Of course.
german interpol		Has Mr. Pearce ever been in custody?
ackerman		Almost.
ackerman		Finally.     Let's go.
specialist		This is gonna take a few minutes.
cara		I'll be ready in fifteen minutes.
ackerman		Where is he?
ackerman		You have nothing to say?
ackerman		Nobody knows. He disappeared after his escape. He's had extensive plastic surgery to alter his appearance since then. Drug lord Amado Carillo did the same thing in the 90s to successfully elude authorities.
quinn		How do you know about it?
ackerman		Pearce worked with no more than a few accomplices at one time. He treated them so well that they're virtually all completely loyal. None of them would cooperate. We've questioned the ones we could find, and the only thing we learned is that Pearce apparently arranged it so even his own people have never seen him after the surgery.
jean luc		So nobody knows what he looks like?
ackerman		Correct.
jean luc		Forgive me for saying so Mr. Ackerman, but he slipped away from you when you knew his whereabouts and his appearance...  What makes you think you can catch him now?
ackerman		His girlfriend was recently released from custody. He'll come for her. We'll be waiting.
quinn		What makes you so certain?
ackerman		He'll come for her.
frank		I was afraid I'd missed you. I wanted to ask where you're staying in Venice... I'm supposed to catch a shuttle to my hotel but I thought maybe--
cara		 I've got a better idea.
cara		You have a booking in the name of Mason.
receptionist		Si, Signorina.
cara		Signora. That's my husband.
receptionist		Very good, Senora Mason. Welcome to the Danieli. You are in the Doge's-- our premiere suite.  Is there anything special you require?
cara		Have a copy of today's Herald Tribune sent up to the room please.
receptionist		My pleasure, Signora.
porter		The bedroom is through here. You have two bathrooms, here and here. There is a small kitchen which...
cara		Yes. Thank you.
porter		Then I will leave you.
cara		You like it?
frank		What's not to like?
cara		I'd have been bored here on my own. There's more than enough room for two.
frank		I can see that.
cara		I didn't ask for an extra bed...
frank		No, no, no. The sofa's fine. Perfect in fact.
cara		The luggage.
frank		I'll get it.
frank		I've put my things in the other bathroom.
cara		Have you ever been to Venice before?
goyal		She's checked into the Danieli... she's not alone.
ackerman		Good. 
demidov		Take a seat, Mr. Quinn. Can I offer you a glass of Brunello?
quinn		No thank you, Mr. Demidov.
demidov		You know I'd never admit this at home, but Vodka is for peasants. There's much we could learn from the Italians.
quinn		I don't think so.
demidov		 He always had good taste...
quinn		Mr. Demidov... if I may ask you a question... Why do you care so much about Alexander Pearce? I mean, you've come here yourself... as if it were personal.
demidov		It may be difficult for you to understand, Mr. Quinn; you Swiss are mercenary by nature. But for some of us, there are things more important than money. I put my trust in Alexander Pearce. He betrayed that trust.
cara		So... when you're not on a Grand European Tour, what do you do in Rosemont, Pennsylvania?
frank		I'm a teacher. High school math. And you? What do you do?
cara		This is what I do, Frank.
frank		You're good at it.
cara		Oh look... a wedding.   How lovely.
frank		I'm not really into weddings at this particular moment in my life...
cara		Oh yes.   I forgot.
cara		Do you think it's really over?
frank		Hmm?
cara		Maybe she'll change her mind. Women do. She might give you a second chance.
frank		I suppose that's a possibility.  That's what I tell my statistics class anyway; life is a game of chance. Endless possibilities and permutations. You just have to calculate the odds.
cara		You haven't answered the question.
frank		Well...  I'd like to think that love is a question of destiny, not chance...
cara		For a moment there you just reminded me of somebody.
frank		He doesn't sound like much of a friend.
cara		He wasn't.
frank		So why are you wearing his watch?
cara		You're smarter than you look, Frank.
frank		What? No, I can't. This thing must be worth a fortune--
cara		I insist. You're doing me a favor.  Take it or I'll toss it in the ocean.
frank		I'll wear it until you regain your senses.
cara		It suits you.
frank		I could get used to this.
cara		You should leave Venice tomorrow.  It's a city for lovers Frank; no place to recover from a failed engagement.
frank		What... what did I do?
cara		Nothing.   I'm sorry.
cut back to		REALITY:
waiter		Pardone Signore. Good morning.
frank		When she...?
frank		Goddamn it!   I'm a fucking tourist!
burly welshman		Are ya bloody mad?
frank		Shit...
a gondolier		 Run faster, man!
domenico		 You can't let them stay over, man. You start cuddling and then she wants to borrow your car. Stop cuddling, Tomaso!
frank		Excuse me...
domenico		 Hey, what are you doing in here?
frank		The officers told me to wait here. I've been sitting here for over two hours...
domenico		I think they forgot about you.
frank		Somebody tried to kill me.
domenico		Mr. Taylor, wow, you had quite a day. Eh? We got chasing, we got shooting.
frank		You think I'm crazy but it's all true.
domenico		Maybe you crazy AND it's true, my friend.
frank		I have absolutely no idea.
domenico		They followed you from the Danieli?
frank		They came to the room. They pretended to be room service.
domenico		You don't scopata one of their girlfriends or something?
frank		I didn't "scopata" anybody!
domenico		Who is...
frank		 In America the cops catch the crooks, not the victim.
domenico		Ha ha, we do that sometimes here, too.
frank		No.
domenico		How long you know Cara Mason?
frank		I met her yesterday.
domenico		And you take her to the Danieli? That must have been good meeting, yes?
frank		I didn't take her. She took me.
domenico		You lead an exciting life, Mr. Taylor.
frank		Not usually.
domenico		Signora Mason was staying with "her husband" last night. You marry her, Mr. Taylor?
frank		No.
domenico		I think maybe Signora Mason might know why these guys behave badly. What do you think?
frank		I think that's possible.
domenico		You got a phone number, mobile?
frank		She didn't give me one.
domenico		You need some clothes.     I'll be right back.
frank		Um... thanks.   Where are we going?
domenico		I'm taking you to the hospital, Mr. Taylor. A doctor should take a look at you.
frank		I'd really rather just go--
domenico		Don't worry. I put you in Padua, away from Venice. You'll be safe.  Any worry, you call me. I give you my home number.
nurse		Relax signore. We're just going to make sure everything is all right inside your head.
clerk		 We'd rather the guests didn't know about the incident.
domenico		Don't worry.   I'll be discreet.
clerk		Grazie.
demidov		Of course.
demidov		 What happened, officer?
domenico		That's what I'm trying to find out, Signore.
demidov		You are a good detective.
domenico		I do my best.
ackerman		What did we find on the American?
jones		He's a tourist. Member of the teacher's union. Pays his taxes. Has bad luck.
ackerman		Evidently. He had a pair of Russian hit men after him. Are you still going to tell me Demidov is clean?
jones		I never said he is clean.    I just said he isn't our target.
goyal		I'm just wondering how they tracked them down at the hotel...
ackerman		 Just so long as they don't beat us to Pearce when the real one arrives.
goyal		The local police picked him up.
ackerman		Then he's safely out of the way.
frank		Hello?
domenico		Well it's official Mr. Taylor. You're not mad.
frank		That's a relief.
domenico		I went to the hotel. Somebody shot at somebody. I found a shell casing. I'll have it analyzed in the morning.
frank		I'd like to be on a flight home tomorrow morning.
domenico		Relax, you're perfectly safe where you are.  You have any visits from your Signora Mason?
frank		 I wish.
domenico		Never let them cuddle, Mr. Taylor. One cuddle and it all turns to merda. Good night. If you need anything, you have my number.
frank		 Wrong floor.
cara		What are you waiting for?    Get in.
cara		Did you miss me?
frank		A little.
cara		 I know.
frank		Do you know why?
cara		It's because I kissed you.
frank		 That guy has nothing to do with this.
cara		Neither do you.
frank		There's not enough room!
cara		There's enough room.
frank		We won't make it!
cara		I thought Americans were optimists.
frank		Do I look that much like Alexander Pearce?
cara		How do you know--?
frank		The watch.
cara		I don't know. You're about his size. That's all.
frank		 You don't know what your own boyfriend looks like?
cara		Alexander crossed a very dangerous man. He changed his appearance in order to vanish.
frank		Great.
cara		Don't worry. I'm taking you somewhere you'll be safe.
frank		We should go to the police.
cara		Because they did such a good job protecting you before?
cara		Frank... Frank.
frank		And I thought I wouldn't get to do any sight-seeing.
cara		Here we are.
frank		Whoa!
cara		Sorry.
frank		What are you doing?
cara		Making sure no one sabotaged the gas lines.
frank		He goes Barracuda fishing?
cara		He goes Marlin fishing. You catch the Barracudas by accident.
cara		And she left you for a cook?
frank		With these ingredients, it's not hard.
cara		I'm glad I decided to come back for you, Frank Taylor.
frank		Can I ask you a question.
cara		 I'm not a criminal.
frank		You carry a gun, you consort with people being chased by killers... I hate to break it to you, but--
cara		Okay, I'm a criminal.
frank		For Alexander Pearce?
cara		He's the most interesting man I've ever known. When I first met him, I wasn't expecting that. He took me by surprise.
frank		 I don't regret it, you know.
cara		Regret what?
frank		Kissing you.
cara		What are you doing?
frank		I thought...
cara		You thought what? That I saw you on the train and my heart stopped? That all my life I've been waiting for a math teacher from the Midwest to sweep me off my feet?
the englishman		Have you been reading the newspaper?
cara		Yes... there was nothing there today. Is... is it you? Alexa--
the englishman		No names.    Not on the phone.
ackerman		Place him.   Place him!
cara		Do we really need another "recipe?"
the englishman		I want to make sure our guests are surprised.
the englishman		You're a brave and loyal girl. I'm in awe of you.
ackerman		Go!   Go!   Go!
cara		That's because you leave everything up to me.
the englishman		 My only concern is for those who cross you, my love.
the englishman		You may not believe it, but every step of this miserable game is taken in the hope of earning your trust and ever-lasting regard. I mean that.
cara		You have a talent for saying the right thing.  You always did.
cara		Wait--
goyal		We should check for prints.    Maybe he forgot to wipe it down...
ackerman		I doubt it.
cara		Frank... I have to go.
frank		Resolved?
cara		It will all be over. I'll give you the all clear and you can go back to your life. This will be a great adventure you can look back on.
frank		When will I see you again?
cara		Never.
frank		Is he worth it?
cara		Get back inside.
frank		You're going to risk everything for him. Would he do the same for you?
cara		It doesn't matter. I love him.
frank		He doesn't deserve it.
cara		None of this is your business anymore. Now get back inside Frank!
old man		Signorina.
cara		 Mi dispiace, Signor.
ackerman		Why do women find these con men so appealing?
jones		Don't look at me. I married my personal trainer.  She's twenty-six.
ackerman		How did Pearce seduce that beautiful woman? Was it his charm? His looks?
goyal		Looks change.
ackerman		Maybe it's because if he adores himself and spends every moment gratifying his desires, so then can she.
goyal		She's on the move. Time to go.
ackerman		By all means.    Let's follow the children.
demidov		When I was a young man, times were very hard. When an opportunity presented itself, you took it.
ackerman		 You know what we know.
ackerman		 Hold...wait for my signal...
ackerman		What is that fool doing in the middle of my operation?
frank		Time for Alexander and me to meet face to face.
cara		 I don't know what you're talking about. Please go, I'd like to have a quiet coffee.
ackerman		 Move off. Move off.
frank		 Caffe, per favore?
cara		Cameriere!   No caffe for signor!
frank		 With milk!
cara		Do you want to be dead?
frank		Not particularly, but I'm tired of being afraid. I've been running around like a frightened mouse long enough and I've decided I'm finished.
goyal		He's not going anywhere.
ackerman		Put Lipetti in. Tell him to play it like he's dealing with a rowdy guest-- escort him out.
cara		Frank, you have no idea what you're sticking your nose into.
frank		Probably not. But I'm doing it anyway. Alexander Pearce nearly got me killed. It was his idea, right? 
cara		Wonderful. Another macho idiot.  Conto, per favore!
frank		What's the lure, Cara? Obviously not his character. Is it the money? The luxury? What's any of that worth if you're getting shot at and you could go to jail?
cara		I'm leaving Frank.
frank		He's smooth, right? He probably has mistresses in every European city, too.
cara		It's really a shame you've scared him off--
frank		What the hell?
cara		Frank!
ackerman		Abort!   Abort, goddammit!
frank		You hide out poolside and send your girlfriend and a total stranger to face the murderers who are after you? Not much of a tough guy, are you?
ackerman		That goddamn fool.
goyal		What do we do with him?
ackerman		Throw him in the lagoon.
frank		Cara!
agent		Ok Signor... you can come with us now.
ackerman		Please...
frank		It's borrowed.
ackerman		It's a good fit.
frank		Unfortunately.
ackerman		You have a vivid imagination.
frank		I haven't needed it lately.
ackerman		I know that.
frank		Since when?
ackerman		Since the beginning.
frank		How...?
ackerman		Come. I want to show you something Frank.
ackerman		 Pull up the CID Academy graduating
frank		You?
ackerman		Take a look at the second row.
frank		Cara...
ackerman		We've been watching you this entire time.
frank		 You saw those men try to kill me and you didn't intervene?
ackerman		I'm trying to apprehend a major criminal. I'm not a babysitter.
frank		I want to speak with somebody at the American Embassy. I'm going to tell them that you and your undercover officer knowingly and recklessly endangered the life of an American citizen! Let's see what my government has to say about that!
jones		We're aware of the situation, Mr. Taylor. But we take a long view of these things... fortunately you are unhurt...
frank		Then I'll go to the press. I'll tell the entire story to the New York Times.
ackerman		 No.   I don't think you'll do that.
frank		Why not?
ackerman		Because I don't think you want to see Cara's entire career destroyed.
ackerman		Women like Cara don't come along very often.
frank		In my case, they don't come along at all.
ackerman		She's the worst combination: stunning looks and a brilliant mind.
frank		If she's so smart, how did she get caught up with Pearce?
ackerman		It started out as a straightforward placement...
ackerman		She was no longer with us.   She was with him.
frank		Then why are you still using her?
ackerman		She's all I have, Mr. Taylor.
frank		You think she'll turn him in this time?
ackerman		I don't know.
frank		It's not just me, is it?
cara		Have you got him?
ackerman		You mean the idiot who ruined our operation?
cara		Have you got him?
ackerman		Yes.
cara		It's your own fault. We never should have endangered a civilian. You should have put an agent into place.
ackerman		There was no time. Besides Pearce is too smart for that; he would have spotted the agent a mile away.
cara		He didn't spot me.
ackerman		Apparently he didn't have to.
cara		What makes you think he didn't?
ackerman		Okay everybody, listen up.
jones		Pearce's own villa? Why would he risk going back there? He must know we'd be watching.
jean luc		Perhaps he's nostalgic.
ackerman		I doubt that. Maybe there's something of value still there. He left in a hurry after all.
jones		Call in a search team.
ackerman		We searched the place after the raid last year. If there's anything hidden there, only Pearce knows where it is.
frank		If you're all around his house, will he show up?
ackerman		If I needed your advice Mr. Taylor, I'd ask.
cara		Come in.
frank		I'm sorry.
cara		It's okay.   Come over here.    I need your help.
frank		Ackerman told me everything.
cara		I'm sorry Frank.
frank		There's no apology necessary.
cara		 How do I look?
frank		Like the most beautiful woman on earth.
cara		When will you go home?
frank		Ackerman asked me to stay with the surveillance team in case the thugs who came after me at the Danieli show up. I'm the only one who can identify them.
cara		 I told him to make sure you were safe until this was over.
frank		You shouldn't worry about me. What about you?
cara		What about me?
frank		What are you going to do?
cara		My job.
frank		You all read the same newspaper.
ackerman		It's a good paper. And sold throughout the world. Makes the classified ads especially useful...
frank		I look forward to meeting him.
ackerman		So do I.
agent		 You'll have to turn around, sir. There's been a chemical spill in this area--
frank		 Who's that?
ackerman		What happened? Get it back on line!
jones		Was that Pearce?
goyal		How did he know there would be a camera?
jones		He's taking out the entire surveillance system--
ackerman		Stop him.
technician		I can't! He's cutting the feed at the source.
jean luc		How can one man move through the house that fast?
goyal		 What should we do?
ackerman		Shut up!    Everyone.
demidov		Sorry to disappoint you, my dear.
jones		 Who is that?
jean luc		The accent is Russ--
ackerman		Shh!  It's Ivan Demidov.
jones		 Not possible.
demidov		You're waiting for someone, Ms. Mason?
goyal		 What are we going to do?
ackerman		We're going to wait for Alexander Pearce. Just like them.
sniper		 She's brought them to the window...
demidov		Not very polite of your boyfriend to keep you waiting.
cara		He loses track of time easily.
demidov		I have a hard time believing that.  Perhaps he's already here somewhere... hiding... even watching us.
goyal		Sir?
ackerman		Demidov's right. He's here somewhere...
jean luc		We have to do something--
ackerman		We have to wait.
jean luc		Yes but--
ackerman		 She's my agent. She's my responsibility.
jones		What if he doesn't come?
goyal		Where's Taylor?
demidov		 Good news. He loves you.
cara		That's not Alexander Pearce.
demidov		You know, Mr. Pearce, I thought I was finished with this sort of thing. But in your case, I've been forced to make an exception.
cara		He is NOT Alexander Pearce!
frank		Nothing to be sorry for.
demidov		Good bye Mr. Pearce.
cara		Ackerman!
ackerman		Do it.
frank		Are you all right?
cara		I did well to choose you on the train...
frank		You didn't get to arrest Alexander Pearce...
cara		He never showed up.
frank		 You're wrong. I'm here.
cara		Why?
frank		You said I'd told so many lies, you wouldn't believe me even if I did tell the truth... This was the only way to convince you.  The truth is that I love you. All that matters is that you believe me.
ackerman		Cara... I want the paramedics to make sure you're all right--
cara		No we won't. There's nothing to talk about. I don't work for you anymore.
ackerman		Mr.   Taylor...   you're free to go.
frank		 It seems you did, Mr. Ackerman.
goyal		Sir... over here. Take a look at this!
ackerman		He was here.
goyal		Account numbers... access codes... unless I'm mistaken... he left the money behind.
jean luc		A mistake perhaps?
jones		How much is there?
goyal		Looks like 744 million.
jones		That's no mistake...  That's his tax bill.
ackerman		Oh but I did get my man, Ms. Jones.
jones		There's something I don't understand... how did Pearce manage to get here and open that safe without anybody noticing? And where did he go?
ackerman		Because Pearce was cleverer than all of us.
the englishman		$20 million dollars worth of surgery and that's the face you chose?
frank		 It's good to see you too.
cara		You really think they'll just give up?
frank		The Americans have their money.   I left it all for them.
cara		What about Demidov's money?
frank		Well...  You have to save something for your pension.
****Dialogues from script :Toy_Story.txt****

final draft		November 1995
andy		 You saved the day again, Woody.
andy		C'mon, let's wrangle up the cattle.
andy		 Score!
andy		Can we leave this up 'til we move?
andy		Yeah!
andy		Okay.
andy		It's party time, Woody!
andy		Howdy, Little Lady!
andy		 See ya later, Woody.
woody		 Pull my string!  The birthday party's today?!
woody		 Okay, everybody.  Coast is clear.
woody		Uh, hey Sarge, have you seen Slinky?
sargent		 Sir!  No Sir!
woody		Okay, thank you.  At ease.
woody		Hey, Slinky?
slinky		I'm red this time.
woody		No, Slink --
slinky		Oh...well alright, you can be red if you want.
woody		Not now, Slink.  I've got some bad news.
slinky		Bad news?!
woody		Sh-h-h-h-h!!
woody		 Just gather everyone up for a staff meeting and be happy!!
slinky		Got it.
woody		Be HAPPY!
woody		 Snake, Robot -- podium duty.
woody		Hey Etch!  Draw!
woody		 Oh!! You got me again, Etch! You've been working on that draw.  Fastest knobs in the west.
slinky		Got a staff meeting, you guys, come on, let's go!
woody		Now where is that -- ?  Aw, hey, who moved my doodle pad way over here?
rex		ROOAAAARR!!!
woody		 Oh, how ya doin', Rex?
rex		Were you scared?  Tell me honestly.
woody		I was close to being scared that time.
rex		I'm going for fearsome here, but I just don't feel it.  I think I'm just coming off as annoying.
woody		 Aach! -- Oh, hi, Bo.
bo peep		I wanted to thank you, Woody, for saving my flock.
woody		 Oh, hey - it was nothing.
bo peep		Whadda ya say I get someone else to watch the sheep tonight?
woody		 Heh, heh...oh yeah, uh, I...
bo peep		Remember, I'm just a couple of blocks away.
slinky		Come on, come on!  Smaller toys up front.
slinky		Hey, Woody!  C'mon!
mike		Ahem!
woody		 Okay --
woody		 Oh, whoa, step back --
woody		Hello?  Check?  Better?  Great. Everybody hear me?  Up on the shelf, can you hear me?  Great! Okay, first item today...oh, yeah. Has everyone picked a moving buddy?
hamm		Moving buddy?!  You can't be serious!
rex		Well I didn't know we were supposed to have one already.
woody		Oh, yeah, you guys think this is a big joke.  We've only got one week left before the move.  I don't want any toys left behind.  A moving buddy -- if you don't have one, get one!  Alright, next...uh...oh, yes. Tuesday night's "Plastic Corrosion Awareness" meeting was, I think, a big success and we want to thank Mr. Spell for putting that on for us. Thank you, Mr. Spell.
woody		Ok, uh...oh yes.  One minor note here...  Next we have --
rex		What?!  Whadda ya mean, the party's today?!  His birthday's not 'til next week!!
hamm		What's going on down there?  Is Mom losing her marbles?!
woody		Well, obviously she wanted to have the party before the move.  I'm not worried.  You shouldn't be worried.
slinky		Hey, hey!  Come on, Potato Head! If Woody says it's all right, then, well, darnit, it's good enough for me.  Woody has never steered us wrong before.
woody		C'mon, guys!  Every Christmas and birthday we go through this.
rex		But what if Andy gets another dinosaur?  A mean one?  I just don't think I can take that kind of rejection.
woody		Hey, listen, no one's getting replaced.  This is Andy we're talking about.
woody		 It doesn't matter how much we're played with.  What matters is that we're here for Andy when he needs us.  That's what we're made for. Right? Everyone is now looking down, sheepish.
hamm		Pardon me.  I hate to break up the staff meeting, but THEY'RE HERE! Birthday guests at three o'clock!
woody		Stay calm, everyone!!
woody		Uh, meeting adjourned.
hamm		Oh, boy.  Will ya take a look at all those presents?!
hamm		Yessir, we're next month's garage sale fodder for sure.
rex		 Any dinosaur-shaped ones?
hamm		Ah, for crying out loud, they're all in boxes, you idiot!
rex		They're getting bigger.
slinky		Wait!  There's a nice little one over there!
rex		We're doomed!
woody		Alright!  Alright!
woody		 If I send out the troops, will you all calm down?
rex		Yes!  Yes!  We promise!
woody		Okay, save your batteries!
hamm		Eh, very good, Woody.  That's using the old noodle.
woody		Sargent.  Establish a recon post downstairs.  Code red.  You know what to do.
sargent		Yes SIR!
sargent		Alright men, you heard him.  Code Red!  Repeat: We are at Code Red! Recon plan Charlie.  Execute! Let's move move move!!
woody		And this --  -- is how we find out what is in those presents.
rex		Shouldn't they be there by now? What's taking them so long?!
woody		Hey, these guys are professionals. They're the best.  C'mon, they're not lying down on the job.
wounded soldier		 Go on without me.  Just go!
slinky		A good soldier never leaves a man behind.
woody		This is it!  This is it!  Quiet, quiet, quiet!
woody		A lunchbox?!
slinky		For lunch.  Heh heh heh...
woody		Last present!
hamm		Yeah, alright!!
hamm		Sorry there, old Spudhead.
sargent		 Mission accomplished.  Well done, men.  Pack it up, we're going home.
woody		So did I tell ya?  Huh?  Nothing to worry about.
slinky		I knew you were right all along, Woody.  Never doubted you for a second.
sargent		 Wait -- turn that thing back on!
sargent		He's really excited about this one. It's a huge package.  Oh -- get out -- one of the kids is in the way, I can't see...
rex		It's a WHAT?! WHAT IS IT?!!!
rex		Oh, no!
hamm		 Way to go, Rex.
woody		No, no!  Turn 'em around, turn 'em around!
hamm		Eh, he's puttin' 'em in backwards!
woody		Plus is positive, minus is negative! Oh, let me!
andy		Let's go to my room, guys!
sargent		 RED ALERT!  RED ALERT!  ANDY IS COMING UPSTAIRS!
woody		There.
woody		Andy's coming, everybody!  Back to your places.  Hurry!
rex		Outta my way!  Here I come, here I come --
andy		-- and you press his back and he does a karate-chop action!
andy		Oh, yeah!
bo peep		Can you see it?
slinky		What the heck is up there?
rex		Woody?  Who's up there with you?
slinky		Woody, what are you doing under the bed?
woody		 Uh-h-h-h...nothing!  Uh, nothing. I'm sure Andy was just a little excited, that's all.  Too much cake and ice cream, I suppose.  It's just a mistake.
rex		 Have you been replaced?
woody		Hey!  What did I tell you earlier? No one is getting replaced.
woody		Now let's all be polite, and give whatever it is up there a nice, big "Andy's Room" welcome.
buzz		Buzz Lightyear to Star Command. Come in, Star Command.
buzz		Star Command - come in.  Do you read me?  Why don't they answer?!! Just then, Buzz catches sight of his ripped packaging.  The box is designed to look like a spaceship.
buzz		 My ship!!
buzz		Blast!  This'll take weeks to repair!
buzz		Buzz Lightyear Mission Log. Stardate 4072: My ship has run off course en route to sector 12.  I've crash landed on a strange planet. The impact must have awoken me from hyper-sleep.
buzz		 Terrain seems a bit unstable...
buzz		 No read-out yet if the air is breathable... and there seems to be no sign of intelligent life anywhere --
woody		Hello-o-o...
buzz		HO-YAAAHH!!!
woody		Aaaaaaah!  Whoa, hey, whoa, did I frighten you?  Didn't mean to. Sorry.  Howdy!  My name is Woody and this is Andy's room.  That's all I wanted to say, and also, there has been a bit of a mix-up. This is my spot, see, the bed here --
buzz		 Local law enforcement!  It's about time you got here.  I'm Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger, Universe Protection Unit.  My ship has crash landed here by mistake.
woody		Yes, it is a mistake, because, you see, the bed, here, is my spot.
buzz		I need to repair my turbo boosters. Do you people still use fossil fuels, or have you discovered crystalic fusion?
woody		Well, let's see, we've got double A's --
buzz		Watch yourself!!
buzz		 Halt!  Who goes there?!
rex		Don't shoot!  It's okay!  Friends!
buzz		 Do you know these life forms?
woody		Yes.  They're Andy's toys.
buzz		Alright, everyone.  You're clear to come up.
buzz		I am Buzz Lightyear.  I come in peace.
rex		Oh, I'm so glad you're not a dinosaur!
buzz		Why, thank you...  Now thank you all for your kind welcome.
rex		Say!  What's that button do?
buzz		I'll show you.
slinky		Hey, Woody's got something like that.  His is a pullstring, only it --
hamm		Oh yeah, but not like this one. This is a quality sound system. Probably all copper wiring, huh? So, uh, where are you from? Singapore?  Hong Kong?
buzz		Well...no, actually I'm stationed up in the Gamma Quadrant of Sector 4.  As a member of the elite Universe Protection Unit of the Space Ranger Corps, I protect the galaxy from the threat of invasion from the Evil Emperor Zurg, sworn enemy of the Galactic Alliance.
rex		And I'm from Mattel.  Well, I'm not actually  from Mattel, I'm actually from a smaller company that was purchased in a leveraged buy-out. Well, I don't really understand the financials, but...
woody		You'd think they've never seen a new toy before.
bo peep		Well sure, look at him.  He's got more gadgets on him then a Swiss army knife.
buzz		Ah, ah, ah, please be careful!  You don't want to be in the way when my laser goes off.
woody		It's not a laser!  It's a little lightbulb that blinks!
hamm		What's with him?
woody		All right, that's enough.  Look, we're all very impressed with Andy's new toy --
buzz		Toy?
woody		T-O-Y.  Toy.
buzz		Excuse me, I think the word you're searching for is Space Ranger.
woody		The word I'm searching for I can't say because there's pre-school toys present.
rex		Oh, uh, Mr. Lightyear?  Now I'm curious.  What does a Space Ranger actually do?
woody		He's not a Space Ranger!  He doesn't fight evil or shoot lasers or fly --
buzz		Excuse me.
hamm		Oh, impressive wingspan.  Very good!
woody		Oh, what?!...What?!  These are plastic.  He can't fly!
buzz		They are a terillium-carbonic alloy and I CAN fly.
woody		No, you can't.
buzz		Yes, I can.
woody		You can't!
buzz		Can!
woody		Can't!  Can't!  Can't!
buzz		I tell you, I could fly around this room with my eyes closed!
woody		Okay then, Mr. Lightbeer!  Prove it.
buzz		All right, then, I will.  Stand back everyone!
buzz		To infinity and beyond!!
buzz		Can.
rex		Whoa!  Oh, wow!  You flew magnificently!
bo peep		I found my moving buddy!
buzz		Why, thank you.  Thank you all. Thank you.
woody		That wasn't flying!  That was falling with style!
slinky		Heh, heh, heh!  Golly bob howdy --
woody		Oh, shut up!  In a couple of days, everything will be just the way it was.  They'll see... they'll see. I'm still Andy's favorite toy.
andy		Buzz Lightyear to the rescue.
woody		Finally!
woody		 Hey!  Who's got my hat?
shark		Look, I'm Woody.  Howdy, howdy, howdy!
woody		 Give me that!
buzz		 Your Chief, Andy, inscribed his name on me.
rex		With permanent ink, too!
buzz		Well, I must get back to repairing my ship.
woody		 Uh, let what?  I don't -- Uh, what do you mean?  Who?
bo peep		I know Andy's excited about Buzz, but you know, he'll always have a special place for you.
woody		Alright!  That's it!
buzz		Unidirectional bonding strip.
robot		Mr. Lightyear wants more tape!
woody		Listen, Lightsnack, you stay away from Andy.  He's mine, and no one is taking him away from me.
buzz		What are you talking about?  Where's that bonding strip?!
woody		And another thing.  Stop with this spaceman thing.  It's getting on my nerves.
buzz		Are you saying you want to lodge a complaint with Star Command? WOODY Oh okay, so you want to do it the hard way, huh?
buzz		Don't even think about it, cowboy!
woody		Oh, yeah, tough guy?!
buzz		The air isn't toxic.
buzz		How dare you open a spaceman's helmet on an uncharted planet!  My eyeballs could've been sucked from their sockets!
woody		You actually think you're THE "Buzz Lightyear?" Oh, all this time I thought it was an act!  Hey, guys!  Look!  It's the REAL Buzz Lightyear!
buzz		You're mocking me, aren't you?
woody		Oh, no, no, no...  Buzz, look!  An alien!
buzz		Where?
woody		Uh-oh.
slinky		It's Sid!
rex		I thought he was at summer camp!
hamm		They must have kicked him out early this year.
rex		Oh, no!  Not Sid!
woody		I can't tell.  Hey, where's Lenny?
rex		Oh, no.  I can't bear to watch one of these again!
woody		Oh, no...it's a Combat Carl.
buzz		What's going on?
woody		Nothing that concerns you spacemen. Just us TOYS.
buzz		I'd better take a look anyway.
buzz		Why is that soldier strapped to an explosive device?
woody		 That's why.  Sid.
buzz		Sure is a hairy fellah.
woody		No!  No, that's Scud, you idiot!
woody		THAT is Sid!
buzz		You mean that happy child?
rex		He tortures toys -- just for fun.
buzz		Well, then we've got to do something!
bo peep		What are you doing?!!  Get down from there!
buzz		I'm going to go teach that boy a lesson.
woody		Yeah, sure.  You go ahead.  Melt him with your scary laser.
buzz		Be careful with that, it's extremely dangerous.
lenny		He's lighting it!  He's lighting it!
lenny		Hit the dirt!
buzz		I could have stopped him.
woody		Buzz, I would love to see you try.  'Course I'd love to see you as a crater.
bo peep		The sooner we move the better.
andy		To infinity and beyond!
andy		Pizza Planet?!  Oh, cool!
woody		 One toy?
woody		 Will Andy pick me?
woody		Don't count on it?!!  Doh-h-h-h!
woody		Buzz!!  Oh, Buzz, Buzz Lightyear!! Buzz Lightyear, thank goodness! We've got trouble!
buzz		Trouble?!  Where?!
woody		 Down there.  Just down there.  A helpless toy...it's...it's trapped, Buzz!
buzz		Then we've no time to lose!!
buzz		I don't see anything!
woody		Oh, he's there.  Just, just keep looking.
buzz		What kind of a toy -- ?
toys		BUZZ!!!!
woody		Buzz!!!
slinky		I don't see him in the driveway!  I think he bounced into Sid's yard.
rex		 Buzz!
rc car		 Whirrr!!  Whirrrr-whirrrr!!!
rex		Hey everyone!  RC's trying to say something!
rex		 What is it, boy?
rc car		 Whirrr!!! Whirrr!  Whirrrrrr!!
toys		Huh?
bo peep		What do you mean?
toys		WHAT?!?
woody		Wait a minute.  You -- you don't think I meant to knock Buzz out the window, do you Potato Head?
woody		Now, it was an accident!  Guys, c'mon now, you...you gotta believe me
slinky		We believe you, Woody.  Right, Rex?
rex		 Oh, I don't like confrontations.
sargent		Where is your honor, dirtbag?!  You are an absolute disgrace!  You don't deserve to --
hamm		I don't think we should give him the chance.
sargent		There he is, men!  Frag him!
hamm		I got dibs on his hat!
bo peep		Would you boys stop it?!
hamm		Tackle him!
woody		No, no, no, no!  Wait!  Wait I can explain everything --
sargent		Retreat!
andy		Mom!  Do you know where Buzz is?
andy		But Mom, I can't find him!
andy		Okay...
andy		I couldn't find my Buzz.  I know I left him right there.
slinky		It's too short!  We need more monkeys!
rex		 There aren't any more!  That's the whole barrel.
rex		 Oh, where could he be?
andy		Can I help pump the gas?
woody		Oh, great.  How am I gonna convince those guys it was an accident?
woody		Buzz!
woody		Buzz!  You're alive!  This is great! Oh, I'm saved!  I'm saved!  Andy'll find you here, he'll take us back to the room, and then you can tell everyone that this was all just a big mistake.  Huh?
woody		 Right?  Buddy?
buzz		I just want you to know that even though you tried to terminate me, revenge is not an idea we promote on my planet.
woody		Oh.  Oh, that's good.
buzz		 But we're not on my planet, are we?
woody		No.
woody		Ok!  Come on!  You want a piece of me?!
woody		Owwwww!!!
woody		 Andy?!
woody		Doesn't he realize that I'm not there?  I'm LOST!  Oh, I'm a lost toy!
buzz		Buzz Lightyear Mission Log.  The local Sheriff and I seem to be at a huge refueling station of some sort --
woody		You!
buzz		 According to my nava-computer, the --
woody		 Shut up!  Just shut up, you idiot!!
buzz		Sheriff, this is no time to panic.
woody		This is the perfect time to panic! I'm lost, Andy is gone, they're going to move from their house in two days and it's all your fault!!
buzz		My fault?!  If you hadn't pushed me out of the window in the first place --
woody		Oh, yeah?  Well, if YOU hadn't shown up in your stupid little cardboard spaceship and taken away everything that was important to me --
buzz		Don't talk to me about importance. Because of YOU the security of this entire universe is in jeopardy.
woody		 WHAT?!!  What are you talking about?!
buzz		Right now, poised at the edge of the galaxy, Emperor Zurg has been secretly building a weapon with the destructive capacity to annihilate an entire planet.  I alone have information that reveals this weapon's only weakness.  And you, my friend, are responsible for delaying my rendez-vous with Star Command.
woody		YOU ARE A TOY!!!  You aren't the real Buzz Lightyear, you're an action figure!!  You are a child's plaything!!!
buzz		You are a sad strange little man and you have my pity.  Farewell.
woody		Oh, yeah?  Well, good riddance, ya looney!
woody		 Rendez-vous with Star Command.
woody		 Pizza Planet...Andy!
woody		Oh, no!  I can't show my face in that room without Buzz.
woody		Buzz!  Buzz, come back!
buzz		 Go away.
woody		No, Buzz, you've gotta come back. I found a spaceship!
woody		It's a spaceship, Buzz!
buzz		Now you're sure this spacefreighter will return to its port of origin once it jettisons its food supply?
woody		Uh-huh.  And when we get there, we'll be able to find a way to transport you...home.
buzz		Well, then let's climb abroad.
woody		No, no, no, wait, Buzz, Buzz, let's get in the back.  No one will see us there.
buzz		Negative.  There are no restraining harnesses in the cargo area.  We'll be much safer in the cockpit.
woody		 Yeah, but, Buzz!  Buzz!
woody		 Buzz!
woody		It'll be safer in the cockpit than the cargo bay.  What an idiot!
robot guards		You are clear to enter.  Welcome to Pizza Planet.
buzz		Sheriff!
buzz		 Sheriff?
buzz		There you are.  Now the entrance is heavily guarded.  We need a way to get inside.
buzz		Great idea, Woody!  I like your thinking!
robot guards		You are clear to enter.  Welcome to Pizza Planet.
buzz		 NOW!
buzz		 Quickly, Sheriff!  The airlock is closing.
woody		 Ow!  Watch where you're going!
buzz		 Sorry.
buzz		What a space port.  Good work, Woody.
woody		 Andy!
andy		Oh, it's so cool...
buzz		Now we need to find a ship that's headed for Sector 12 --
woody		Wait a minute!  No Buzz!  This way! There's a special ship.  I just saw it!
buzz		You mean it has hyperdrive?
woody		Hyper-active hyperdrive, and astro...uh, turf.
woody		 C'mon, c'mon, that's it...
buzz		Where is it?  I don't see the --
buzz		 Spaceship.
woody		Alright Buzz, get ready...
woody		Okay, Buzz, when I say "go," we're gonna jump in the basket --
woody		 Buzz!
woody		Dooh!  No!  This cannot be happening to me!!
aliens		Oo-o-o-o-o-o...
buzz		Greetings!  I am Buzz Lightyear!  I come in peace!
aliens		Tell us!  What is it like outside?
buzz		 Who's in charge here?
aliens		The cla-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-w!!
woody		 This is ludicrous.
woody		Oh, no!  Sid!!!
woody		Get down!!
buzz		 What's gotten into you, Sheriff?  I was --
woody		 YOU are the one that decided to climb into this --
sid		Gotcha!
sid		A Buzz Lightyear!  No way!
sid		Yes!
woody		 Buzz, NO!
sid		 Wha -- ?  Hey!!
woody		Hey!  What are you doing?
woody		Stop it, you -- !  Stop it, you zealots!
aliens		He must go!  Do not fight the claw! Do not anger the claw!  He has been chosen.
sid		Alright!  Double prizes!
sid		 Let's go home and...play.  Ha-ha-ha.
buzz		Sheriff!  I can see your dwelling from here!  You're almost home.
alien		Nirvana is coming!  The mystic portal awaits!
woody		 You guys don't get it, do you? Once we go into Sid's house, we won't be coming out.
sid		Whoa, Scud!  Hey, boy.  Sit!  Good boy!
sid		Hey, I got somethin' for ya, boy.
woody		 FREEZE!!!
sid		Ready, set, NOW.
sid		Hannah!  Hey, Hannah!!!
hannah		What?
sid		Did I get my package in the mail?
hannah		I dunno.
sid		Whaddaya mean, you don't know?
hannah		 I don't know!
sid		 Oh no, Hannah!
hannah		What?
sid		Look!  Janie!
hannah		Hey!!
sid		She's sick!
hannah		 No she's NOT --
sid		I'll have to perform one of my...operations!
hannah		NO-O-O... Don't touch her!  NO!
woody		Not Sid's room...not there...
hannah		Sid!  Give her back!
sid		 Oh, no.  We have a sick patient here, nurse.  Prepare the O.R., STAT!
sid		 ...pre-e-epped.
sid		 No one's ever attempted a double bypass brain transplant before.
sid		 Now for the tricky part -- pliers!
buzz		 I don't believe that man's ever been to medical school.
sid		 Hannah?
sid		 Janie's all better now.
hannah		MOM!!  MOM!!
sid		She's lying!  Whatever she says it's not true!
woody		We are gonna die.  I'm outta here!
woody		Locked!  There's gotta be another way out of here.
woody		Uh...Buzz?  Was that you?
woody		Hey!  Hi, there, little fellah! Come out here.  Do you know a way out of here?
woody		B-B-B-Buzz!
buzz		They're cannibals!
buzz		May day!  May day!  Come in, Star Command!  Send reinforcements!...  Star Command, do you copy?
buzz		 I've set my laser from stun to kill.
woody		Oh, great, great.  Yeah, and if anyone attacks us we can blink 'em to death.
rex		Hey, you guys!  I think I've found him.  Buzz!  Is that you?!
rex		Whiskers!  Will you get out of here?!  You're interfering with the search and rescue.
rex		 Look!  They're home!
andy		Mom, have you seen Woody?
andy		 Right here in the van.
andy		He's not here, Mom.  Woody's gone.
bo peep		 Woody's gone?!
hamm		Well waddah-ya-know, the weasel ran away.
rex		Who would've thought he was capable of such atrocities?!
bo peep		Oh, Slink, I hope he's okay.
sid		 I can see your will is strong.
sid		 Well, we have ways of making you talk.
sid		 Where are your rebel friends now? Heh, heh.
sid		Alright!!
buzz		Are you alright?  I'm proud of you, Sheriff.  A lesser man would have talked under such torture.
woody		I sure hope this isn't permanent.
buzz		 Still no word from Star Command. We're not that far from the spaceport --
woody		The door!  It's open!  We're free!!
buzz		Woody, we don't know what's out there!
woody		I'll tell you what's -- AAAAH!
woody		They're gonna eat us, Buzz!!  Do something!  Quick!
buzz		Shield your eyes!
buzz		It's not working.  I recharged it before I left.  It should be good for hours --
woody		Oh, you idiot!  You're a toy!  Use your karate chop action!
woody		 Get away!  Hoo-cha!  Hoo-cha!
buzz		Hey!!  Hey!  How are you doing that? Stop that!
woody		Back!  Back, you savages!  Back!
buzz		Woody, stop it!!
woody		Sorry guys, but dinner's canceled!
woody		 There's no place like home. There's no place like home. There's no place like home...
buzz		 Another stunt like that, cowboy -- you're going to get us killed.
woody		 Don't tell me what to do!
buzz		Shhh!
buzz		Split up!
buzz		Star Command!
space commander		Buzz Lightyear, Planet Earth needs your help!
tv buzz		To Infinity and Beyond!
buzz		To Infinity and Beyond!
hannah		Nevermind.
woody		Oo-o-of!  It's a secret mission in uncharted space!  Let's go!!
hannah		 Would you like some tea, Mrs. Nesbit?
woody		 Buzz!
hannah		It's so nice you could join us on such late notice.
woody		Oh, no!
hannah		What a lovely hat, Mrs. Nesbit.  It goes quite well with your head.
woody		 Hannah!  Oh, Hannah!
hannah		 Please excuse me, ladies.  I'll be right back.
hannah		What is it, Mom?  Mom, where are you?
woody		Buzz!  Hey, Buzz!  Are you okay?
buzz		Gone!  It's all go-o-one!  All of it's gone.  Bye-bye!  Whoo-hoo! See ya!
woody		What happened to you?
buzz		One minute you're defending the whole galaxy...  ...and suddenly you find yourself suckin' down Darjeeling with Marie Antoinette and her little sisters.
woody		I think you've had enough tea for today.  Let's get you out of here, Buzz.
woody		Snap out of it, Buzz!
buzz		 I'm sorry.  You're right.
buzz		 ...I'm just a little depressed, that's all.  I can get through this.
buzz		Oh, I'm a sham!!
woody		 Sh-h-h-h-h!!  Quiet, Buzz.
buzz		Look at me!  I can't even fly out of a window!
buzz		 But -- the hat looked good.  Tell me the hat looked good!  The apron is a bit much, it's not my color...
woody		Out the window...Buzz, you're a genius!
woody		 Come on, this way!
buzz		Years of Academy training...wasted!!
hamm		Heh-heh.
hamm		Oh, quit your whining and pay up.
hamm		No, no, not the ear.  Gimme the nose.  C'mon!
hamm		He's in the psycho's bedroom!
woody		Hi!
hamm		 Everyone, it's Woody!
bo peep		Woody?!
rex		You're kidding?
slinky		Woody?!
woody		We're gonna get outta here, Buzz -- Buzz?
rex		Hey, look!
bo peep		Woody!
woody		Boy, am I glad to see you guys!
slinky		I knew you'd come back, Woody!
bo peep		What are you doing over there?
woody		It's a long story, Bo.  I'll explain later.  Here, catch this!
slinky		I got it, Woody!
rex		 He got it, Woody!
woody		Good going, Slink!  Now, just, just tie it on to something!
slinky		Hey?!!
bo peep		Potato Head!?
woody		No, no, no!  You got it all wrong, Potato Head.  Buzz is fine!  Buzz is right here.  He's with me!
woody		No, I'm not!  Buzz, come over here and you just tell the nice toys that you're not dead.
woody		 Just a sec.
woody		Buzz!  Will you get up here and give me a hand?!
woody		 This is serious!!
woody		 Oh, hi Buzz!  Why don't you say "hello" to the guys over there?
rex		Hey look!  It's Buzz!
woody		 Yeah, hey Buzz.  Let's show the guys our new secret best-friends hand shake.  Gimme five, man!
hamm		Something's screwy here.
woody		So, you see?  We're friends now, guys.  Aren't we, Buzz?  You bet.  Gimme a hug.
woody		 Ha, ha, oh, I love you, too.
slinky		See?  It is Buzz.  Now give back the lights, Potato Head.
woody		Nothing.
hamm		Oh, that is disgusting.
woody		No!  No, no, no, no!
woody		No, it's not what you think, I swear!
woody		No!  No!  Don't leave!  Don't leave! You've gotta help us, please!  You don't know what it's like over here!
hamm		Go back to your lives, citizens. Show's over.
woody		Come back!  Slink!  Slink, please! Please!  Listen to me!
woody		 No!  No!  Come back!  SLI-I-I-INKYYY!!
woody		BUZZ!!
woody		Go away, you disgusting freaks!
woody		Alright back!  Back, you cannibals!
woody		He is still alive, and you're not gonna get him, you monsters!
woody		Hey?!  Hey, they fixed you!
woody		 But -- but they're cannibals.  We saw them eat those other toys.
woody		Uh...sorry.  I...I thought that you were gonna...  ...you know, eat my friend.
woody		Hey!  No, no, wait!  Hey!  What's wrong?
woody		Sid!!!
woody		Buzz!  C'mon, get up!  Buzz, you're...  ...get up...
woody		Fine.  Let Sid trash you.  But don't blame me.
sid		It came!  It finally came!
sid		 The big one.
sid		 What am I gonna blow?  Man...hey, where's that wimpy cowboy doll?
sid		Yes!  I've always wanted to put a spaceman into orbit.  Ha-ha.
sid		Oh, no...
sid		Aw, man...!
sid		 Sid Phillips reporting.  Launch of the shuttle has been delayed due to adverse weather conditions at the launch site.  Tomorrow's forecast...
sid		Sunny.  Ha-ha-ha.  Sweet dreams.
andy		 But what if we leave them behind?
rex		I'm sorry.  It's just that I get so nervous before I travel.
rex		 Everyone else was picked.
bo peep		Oh, Woody, if only you could see how much Andy misses you.
woody		Ps-s-s-s-t!  Psst!  Hey, Buzz!
woody		Hey!  Get over here and see if you can get this tool box off me.
woody		Oh, come on, Buzz.  I...Buzz, I can't do this without you.  I need your help.
buzz		I can't help.  I can't help anyone.
woody		Why, sure you can, Buzz.  You can get me out of here and then I'll get that rocket off you, and we'll make a break for Andy's house.
buzz		Andy's house.  Sid's house.  What's the difference.
woody		Oh, Buzz, you've had a big fall. You must not be thinking clearly.
buzz		No, Woody, for the first time I am thinking clearly.  You were right all along.  I'm not a Space Ranger.  I'm just a toy.  A stupid little insignificant toy.
woody		Whoa, hey -- wait a minute.  Being a toy is a lot better than being a Space Ranger.
buzz		Yeah, right.
woody		No, it is.  Look, over in that house is a kid who thinks you are the greatest, and it's not because you're a Space Ranger, pal, it's because you're a TOY!  You are HIS toy.
buzz		But why would Andy want me?
woody		Why would Andy want you?!  Look at you!  You're a Buzz Lightyear.  Any other toy would give up his moving parts just to be you.  You've got wings, you glow in the dark, you talk, your helmet does that -- that whoosh thing -- you are a COOL toy.
woody		 As a matter of fact you're too cool. I mean -- I mean what chance does a toy like me have against a Buzz Lightyear action figure?  All I can do is...
woody		Why would Andy ever want to play with me, when he's got you?  I'm the one that should be strapped to that rocket.
woody		Listen Buzz, forget about me.  You should get out of here while you can.
woody		Buzz!!  What are you doing?  I thought you were --
buzz		Come on, Sheriff.  There's a kid over in that house who needs us. Now let's get you out of this thing.
woody		Yes Sir!
woody		 Come on, Buzz!  We can do it!
buzz		Woody!  It's the moving van.
woody		We've got to get out of here...NOW.
woody		C'mon, Buzz.
woody		 Alright.  Buzz!  Hey!  I'm out!
buzz		...almost  ...
sid		 I wanna ride the pony...
buzz		Woody!  Woody?!  Are you alright?!
woody		 No, I'm fine...I'm okay...
sid		Oh, yeah!  Time for lift-off!
woody		Aaah!  Back!  Back!  Down!  Down!
woody		 Okay, what do I do?  Come on Woody, think!
woody		Guys!
woody		No, no, no!  Wait!  Wait!  Listen! Please!  There's a good toy down there and he's -- he's going to be blown to bits in a few minutes all because of me.  I've gotta save him!  -- But I need your help.
woody		Please.  He's my friend.  He's the only one I've got.
woody		 Okay.  I think I know what to do. We're going to have to break a few rules, but if it works, it'll help everybody.
sid		 Houston to Mission Control.  Come in, Control.
sid		 Launch pad is being constructed! Heh-heh.
woody		All right, listen up.  I need Pump Boy here -- Ducky here.  Legs?
woody		 RollerBob and I don't move till we get the signal.  Clear?
woody		Okay, let's move!
woody		Wind the frog!
woody		Wait for the signal.
woody		Go!!
woody		Alright, let's go.
hannah		I'm coming!  I'm coming!
hannah		 SCUD!!!
hannah		Stupid dog.
woody		Lean back!
woody		 Let's go!
buzz		 Woody?!  Great!  Help me out of this thing!
woody		Shhhhhhh!
buzz		What?!
woody		 It's ok.  Everything's under control.
buzz		Woody?!  What are you doing?!
sid		Oh, well, you and I can have a cookout later.  Ha-ha-ha...
sid		 ...and counting.  Ten!  Nine! Eight!  Seven!  Six!  Five!  Four! Three!  Two!... One!...
sid		Huh?
sid		What?!
sid		It's busted.
sid		W-w-w-we?
woody		 So play nice.
sid		AAAAAAAGGGGGGHHHHHH!!!!!
sid		The toys!  The toys are alive!
sid		 N-N-Nice dolly...
hamm		What's wrong, Sid?!  Don't you want to play with Sally?!
buzz		Woody!
buzz		Thanks.
buzz		Woody!  The van!
woody		 We gotta run!  Thanks, guys.
woody		Quick!
buzz		Just go!  I'll catch up!
buzz		Come on!
buzz		You can do it, Woody.
woody		Whew, I made it!
woody		 Aaaaaahh!!  Get away, you stupid dog!  Down!  Down!
buzz		Hold on, Woody!
woody		I can't do it!  Take care of Andy for me!
buzz		NO-O-O-O-O-O-O!!
woody		Buzz!
toys		What?!
rex		Are we there already?
slinky		Woody?!  How'd you --
woody		Ah-hah!  There you are!!
rex		He's at it again!
woody		Ah-h!!  Ah-h!  No, no!
woody		No, no, no!  Wait!  Whoa-Whoa-Whoa...!
buzz		 Whoa-Whoa-Whoa...!
hamm		Pig pile!!
woody		No wait!  You don't understand! Buzz is out there!  We've gotta help him!!
woody		No, no, no, wait!
buzz		Who-o-o-oa!  Woody!
woody		Well, thanks for the ride.
buzz		 Look out!!
woody		Now let's catch up to that truck!
lenny		Guys!  Guys!  Woody's riding RC! And Buzz is with him!
toys		What?!!!
bo peep		It is Buzz!  Woody was telling the truth!
slinky		What have we done?!
rex		Great.  Now I have guilt. EXT. STREET/BACK OF MOVING TRUCK
woody		We're almost there.
bo peep		Rocky!  The ramp!
buzz		Look out!!
slinky		 Quick!  Hold on to my tail!
slinky		Woody!!
slinky		Woody!  Speed up!
woody		 Speed up!
buzz		The batteries!  They're running out!
slinky		Whoa!  Whoa!  Whoa!
slinky		I can't hold on much longer!
woody		Slink!  Hang on!
woody		 Great!
buzz		Woody!  The rocket!
woody		The match!
woody		 Yes!  Thank you, Sid!
woody		No-o-o!  No-no-no-no!  No-o-o!
buzz		Woody?!  What are you doing?
woody		Hold still, Buzz!
woody		Ha-ha!!
buzz		You did it!  Next stop.  Andy.
woody		Wait a minute...I just lit a rocket. Rockets explo --
slinky		I shoulda held on longer.
lenny		Look!  Look!  It's Woody and Buzz! Comin' up fast!
rex		Take cover!!
woody		Ahhh!! This is the part where we blow up!
buzz		Not today!
woody		 Ah-h-h-h-h!!
woody		Hey, Buzz!!  You're flying!!
buzz		This isn't flying.  This is falling -- with style!
woody		Ha ha!!  To Infinity and Beyond!!
woody		Uh, Buzz?!  We missed the truck!
buzz		We're not aiming for the truck!
andy		Hey!  Wow!
andy		 Woody!  Buzz!
andy		Here!  In the car!
andy		Which one can I open first?
hamm		 Hey, heads up everybody!  It's showtime.
rex		Oh!  It's time!
woody		Whoooooah!  Oh!  Bo!  There's gotta be a less painful way to get my attention.
bo peep		Merry Christmas, Sheriff.
woody		Say, isn't that mistletoe?
bo peep		Mm-hmmmmm.
rex		 Maybe Andy'll get another dinosaur, like a leaf-eater.  That way, I could play the, uh, dominant predator.  Ha ha ha!
buzz		Quiet everyone, quiet!
hamm		Way to go, Idaho!
woody		Buzz.  Buzz Lightyear.  You are not worried, are you?
buzz		 Are you?
woody		 Now Buzz, what could Andy possibly get that is worse than you?!
****Dialogues from script :Traffic.txt****

robert		Mr. Rodman...it's too bad your client didn't show as much sense in choosing what he planted as he did in choosing his attorney...
robert		Lately the only variation I'm hearing in your argument is the name of the client.  And you can sit there all day arguing the ins and outs of Illinois v. Gates, but you aren't going to convince me that this country has not sanctioned the use of anonymous informants.  Furthermore, there is no sacred protection of property rights in the United Sates.  When you make the decision to have marijuana on your farm, whether it's one joint or an acre of plants, your property can be seized and your property can be sold.
robert		Mr. Rodman, may I offer a piece of advice?  The next time you argue this point before this court, regardless of my whereabouts, I recommend you have something up your sleeve other than your arm.
clerk		What do you think it is?
robert		Depends who it's from.
clerk		 Your friends at Warren, Putnam and Hudson.
robert		You can learn a lot about somebody from this stuff.  Three categories: you like me, you hate me, you want something from me.  Definitely third category.
clerk		What would a law firm want from the new drug Czar?
robert		Depends on the state.
clerk		 Arizona.
robert		Medicinal marijuana initiative.  Or am I being cynical?
clerk		Maybe there's a book in it.
robert		Not by me.
javier		I had that dream again.
manolo		Which one?
javier		Where my mother's suffocating.
driver		Is there a problem?
javier		No.  There's no problem.
driver		Okay.  I see.  How much do you want?
driver		You want more than this?
driver		You want something else?
javier		Drop the package.  Put your hands behind your head.  You're under arrest.
driver		I don't understand.  I think there must be some mistake.
javier		No, there's no mistake.
salazar		 What's your name?
javier		Javier Rodriguez.
salazar		Well, Javier Rodriguez, you've done a very good job, but we'll take care of it from here.
salazar		We've been following these Narco- trafficantes for some time but had not been able to bring them to justice.  Put the prisoners in the car. Impound the truck.
salazar		 One question.  How did you find about this?
javier		An informant.
salazar		What is the name of your informant?
javier		 It was an anonymous tip.
salazar		 For a State Police officer, you're very well informed.  Let's go.
moments later		Javi and Manolo watch the convoy of vehicles drive away.
manolo		Wasn't that General Salazar?
javier		Yeah.
manolo		What's he doing up here?
javier		I don't know.  Something.
castro		No telltales.  Nothing to read. Not touching my face.  Not even blinking.  No giveaways.  How're you feeling?
gordon		 I feel good.
castro		No more pissant basin league bullshit for us, hunh?
gordon		Nope.
castro		Limbering up, gonna stay loose, keep it all together.  Take this motherfucker down.
castro		Showtime.
castro		 Good afternoon, ladies, gentlemen. We're looking for Eduardo Ruiz.  We have a two o'clock appointment.
ruiz		You ever buy a quarter ton?  Not many people have.
ruiz		So, it's worth the wait, right? What can I do?  Rent a Huey?  Have an airlift?  It's not like you can put it in a condom up some mule's asshole, right?  How many peasants would that take?  A line stretching from here to Mexico City --
gordon		Nobody said shit, Eduardo --
ruiz		Relax.  We're waiting, that's it.
castro		Hey, you want to hear a joke?  I got a joke.  Why do women wear makeup and perfume?
gordon		Chill out --
castro		It's a funny fuckin' joke and it's quick.  Why do women wear makeup and perfume?
ruiz		I don't know.
castro		'Cause they're ugly and they stink.
gordon		Man, you never been close enough to a woman to know how she smells.
dea agent		This is ridiculous this fucking thing.  Look at this shit -- the first television transmission.  I had better shit when I was the AV guy at junior high, swear-to-God.
fbi agent		This is our show.  Ah, man.  I don't want to share this one.
castro		Agent down.  Repeat, agent down.
clown		Hey dudes, we're not open yet.
ruiz		Take me to the hospital.  I'm bleeding to death.
seth		Father of Greek tragedy?  Anyone? Okay, Aeschylus it is.  Score.  Thank you.  Madmax from Omaha we own you.  And Tragedy is closed out.
caroline		Entertainment.  The Susan Lucci section or Banal Love Songs of the Nineties?
seth		Banal Love Songs it is.  Hey, you wanna try something?
caroline		What are you doing?
seth		 Just watch.
seth		Inhale the smoke and hold it.
caroline		What is this, like freebase?
seth		Not like.  It is.
seth		Go...  Go!
seth		Hold it.
seth		See... Now, you see.
caroline		More.
robert		I'll be sure to let you know.
sheridan		I just want to be clear about one thing.  I used to work for him, but now I work for you.  I'm not a partisan person, I'm an issue person. In the next few weeks, if you allow me, we'll get you well-versed on an incredible array of issues.  The most important of which, in my opinion, being Mexico.  I know everybody that you're gonna meet. It's important that they like you. It's not important that they like me.  That's why I can help protect you.
robert		Like you protected Landry?
sheridan		I see where you're going with that, but if I could just say something, which is basically that a guy like Landry is so autocratic he doesn't know how to let himself be helped; it's a point of pride to take every bullet, no matter who fired it, or whether it was even aimed at him, which personally I think it very self-defeating.  Now, don't get me wrong, he's a man of enormous integrity, but there's a political component to this job that the General just didn't have any patience for.
general landry		Jeff, you want to excuse us for a minute?
general landry		 Functionaries.  Nice people, the Schedule C's.  About twelve graduate degrees apiece, but it seems sometimes all they do is start rumors.
robert		You've done a fine job here, Sir. The Office of National Drug Control Policy is in better shape than when you found it.
general landry		I'm not sure I made the slightest difference.  I tried...  I really did.
robert		There are a lot of encouraging statistics.  The work's just started, but I intend to see it through. You've got my word on that.
general landry		You're here for two years, three maximum.  What'd they promise you? Court appointment?  What?  District? Appeals?  Not Supreme... Supreme?
robert		I've come in to do a tough job and that's what I'm going to focus on.
general landry		When Kruschev was forced out, he sat down and wrote two letters and handed them to his successor.  He said "When you get into a situation you can't get out of, open the first letter and you'll be saved.  And when you get into another situation you can't get out of, open the second."  Soon enough this guy found himself in a tight place.  So he opened the first letter.  It said, "Blame everything on me."  So he blamed the old guy and it worked like a charm.  He got into another situation he couldn't get out of, so he opened the second letter, which read, "Sit down and write two letters."
javier		Relax.  If they were going to kill us they would have done it in the desert.
manolo		They wouldn't do it in front of all these people.  They'd send someone later, when we're alone.
manolo		 Away from the car.  Now!
javier		Even if that were true, they're not going to come to your house where you're waiting for them.
anna		He's right.  They'll do it when you're walking somewhere, make it look like street crime.
manolo		Shut your fucking mouth.  Nobody's talking to you.
javier		If you want her to stay out of it, then stop telling her everything. You should learn how to keep a secret.
manolo		She's nosy.  She hears me on the telephone.
javier		Anyway, I don't think we'll ever see them again.  Everything's back to normal.
tourist woman		You're a police officer.  Aren't you going to take a report or something? Don't you want to know what kind of car it is?
tourist man		It's a Brown Ford Explorer --
tourist woman		It was right here.  It's been stolen. I want to file a report.
manolo		Please.  Filing a report will not help you find your car.
javier		The police won't find your car.
tourist woman		But you're the police.
javier		Call this man, he'll find your car for you.
tourist man		I don't get it --
tourist woman		How will this guy know who has our car?
javier		The police will tell him.
tourist man		Why will they tell him but they won't tell us?
tourist woman		 Right?  And he pays the police.
javier		Yes.  Better than filling out forms, right?
nan		Duck salad?
helena		Mmm.
nan		Helena, you never order duck salad.
helena		Well, that's true.  I don't.  I think someone else is asking for it.
nan		Well, he's got good taste.  Isn't it the most wonderful thing you ever tasted?  I mean ever.
helena		It's delicious --
stewie		They're the most marvelous little creatures.  Canard.  They fly, swim, walk.  And so cute with their babies marching along behind.
nan		Looking for a nice sauce ala orange.
alex		It's a very fatty bird.  All that winter insulation.  Just like me.
nan		You mean all breast, just like you.
alex		You're bad --
nan		 Jealous, that's all --
helena		I've heard... I can't remember where... That it's full of that good kind of fat, the kind you're supposed to eat --
stewie		Unsaturated fat --
helena		And now there's a good cholesterol and bad cholesterol.  Everything they tell you completely changes every other week.  I don't know why they think we should listen at all.
nan		What I know is ducks, as cute as they are, were designed by God to be eaten.
helena		I'll put this in the back.
david		No --
helena		All the professionals keep them in the trunk.
david		Not Tiger Woods.
helena		Especially Tiger Woods.  ...Actually, he keeps his on the back seat.
lonnie		Gates, Myrhvold, Bezos.  I sell to all those guys.  Why?  Because the technology to intrude has reached the masses.  Your competitor, your ex-spouse, adversaries, stalkers, they're at the local electronics store right now, and they're gonna be intruding on you not only through your telephone, but your fax, cell phone, pager, cable TV, Musak, windows, walls, air conditioning ventilation, modem, and internet connection.
lonnie		Nobody has these babies, no way, not the shiznit.
francisco		I want to intercept cell phone calls, digital and analog.  And locate the source of the call.  I need databasing capability, to cross-reference calls and numbers.
lonnie		Your Cellular Secretary, friend across all the digital wireless spread spectrum.  So, Francisco, what do you do?  You a PI?  Private security?
francisco		Assassin.
lonnie		 Assassin, okay.  Let's get you started in surveillance.
pharmaceutical lobbyist		We in the legal drug business, and I mean Merck, Pfizer, the rest of my very powerful clients, realize this isn't a war with a traditional winner and loser, but an organism at war with itself, whose weapons of mass destruction happen to be intoxicants. And if you want a body count look no further than alcohol which racks up 80,000 kills a year.  Cocaine manages a measly 2,000.  Same for Heroin. But, the big daddy is Big Tobacco which kills 380,000 each year, which, by the way, is more people than have been killed by all the illegal drugs in the last century.
robert		 That's very interesting.
stan		It's time, Robert, to choke some honesty out of these rural legislators; get'em to fess up that it's pretty much Prisons or Casinos in terms of their choices for economic growth.
ethan		What's the difference between Prozac and Ecstacy, you ask?  One's a mattress and the other's a trampoline. Molecules don't have morality. Really, think about it: some molecule changes the way a serotonin re-uptake inhibitor works, it's not suddenly a bad molecule; it's just a molecule. My theory: America has a real fear of short, intense experiences.
robert		 Like you.
another room		Robert at the bar getting another scotch.  A secretive man, TIM, 40's, nerdy, sidles up beside him and whispers furtively in his ear.
tim		 Chemicals?  Some say problems, others say solution.  Imagine a cloud that when it rains prohibits the growth of poppies or takes the THC out of marijuana.  Imagine a pill that eliminates any psychological craving, from Dilaudid to Dove Bars.  Law enforcement hasn't let science sit on the sidelines.  Addiction is no more relevant than polio or the Black Plague.
economist		 You're not battling traffickers or dealers, but a market, and the market contains a paradox: if you arrest traffickers, you raise prices, and you also raise profits, which brings more traffickers into the business.
undersecretary		 Back in the real world, we're talking about Mexico and not John Maynard Keynes.  We will spend 18 billion dollars this year on this "war," and the question on the table every year is do we certify Mexico as an ally or not?
rush phillips		You want to make a difference, hit the users. You don't jeopardize our financial markets by some hypocritical stance on drug consumption.  We're snorting it, why penalize Mexico for supplying it?
undersecretary		Mexico, don't talk to me about Mexico --
economist		It's the stick of law enforcement that creates the carrot of huge profits... That's economic truth --
rush phillips		Addicts don't vote; they don't have PACs; they don't spend soft money, that's political truth --
undersecretary		We're locking them up and consumption is falling --
economist		The price of coke and heroin has dropped and purity has increased. All this law enforcement has achieved is kids can get better stuff, cheaper. In economic terms, you can forget it; this is not a winnable war.
rush phillips		Christ, you want to decertify somebody, take Pakistan or Columbia. We don't need them for anything.
economist		If you manage to seize an inconceivable 50 percent of all drugs coming into this country, you'll still raise the price of coke and heroin less than 3 percent which won't affect drug use at all.
rush phillips		Why are we calling this a war at all?  You don't declare war on your own people.  Addiction is a little worm that gnaws a house apart from the inside.
undersecretary		We need Mexico for these reasons: number one -- Defense; two -- Trade; three -- Tourism; then, way on down the line, comes Drugs.  The President knows this.  Why's he holding everybody's feet to the fire?
michael		 Mr. Wakefield, there's a situation that needs your attention right away.
rush phillips		 One in sixteen Americans is of Mexican descent.  Mexico our third largest trading partner...
robert		You're looking pretty good for an old guy.
michael		My work keeps me young.
robert		Which part, getting terrorists loose on bail or freeing convicted murderers on technicalities?
michael		The worst serial killer in history - who?  Gacy - right?  Killed forty two people.  Our government killed fifty thousand in Vietnam and lied about it every day.
robert		Michael, you represent drug dealers, not civil libertarians.
michael		We kidnapped Noriega out of Panama. Is that covered in your Constitution? Because it isn't in mine.
robert		Noriega is a criminal.
michael		Noriega was head of a sovereign nation who made the mistake of doing business with the U.S.  Government.  So, no, I don't have a problem waking up every day and fighting our government, fighting people like you, trying to keep this system a little bit honest.
robert		 Last I read your clients were chopping people up with chainsaws and delivering illegal narcotics into this country.
michael		I hope when you were on the bench, Judge Wakefield, you didn't handle the presumption of innocence in the same fashion.
robert		If I ever return to the bench, Counselor Adler, I hope I have the pleasure of hearing your arguments.
gordon		You planning on going somewhere, Eduardo?  You don't like it here? This is the best situation you're going to have for a long, long time.
ruiz		I am a legitimate business.  Fishing boats.  Tuna.  Check it out.  Tax records, everything --
gordon		Listen you motherfucker, you tried to kill me with a fucking cannon.
ruiz		You can't visit me here.  I want my lawyer.
gordon		The amount of coke we got on you means capital punishment in some states.
castro		Move 'em to Texas, fry 'em up.
gordon		We got you on tape making the deal. We got you bragging about the quality. We got you bragging about your business.  We got you.
gordon		One chance here, Eduardo.  Make us believe you got a boss.  No boss, it's all on you.
ruiz		It's a death sentence.  I'll never make it to the trial.
gordon		We can protect you.
castro		Who do you work for?
ruiz		This is coercion.
gordon		That's a big word for a fisherman.
castro		Who do you work for?
ruiz		I know another word... Immunity.
david		Daddy!
carl		Hello.  Hello.
carl		 I'm sorry, Jonas.  I don't care if that is the price you have gotten in order countries.
carl		This is America, a different country. I am Carl, a different man.  So you see, everything about our situation is different and I believe the pricing will be different, too.  You're a reasonable man... So take the weekend to think about it.
carl		Every day with this guy is like starting all over again.
carl		Hi.
helena		Hi.
carl		What's up?
helena		Just watching you.
carl		I got that.  How was your day?
carl		You all right?
helena		I keep feeling like I'm forgetting something.
helena		David, come inside --
carl		What is this?  What is going on?
gordon		Mr. Ayala?
carl		That's right.
gordon		You're under arrest for violation of Federal Narcotics laws.
gordon		We have a warrant to search your home, Mrs. Ayala.
aide		 Not you.  You.
salazar		Javier Rodriguez.  Twenty-nine years- old.  Graduated from Montessori school.  Five years as a beat cop in TJ.  Three years with the State Police.  Parents died four years ago in their apartment from carbon monoxide poisoning because they could not afford to fix their gas heater. Your sister works in a Maquiladora in Juarez, making designer blue-jeans. On the police force three years, you currently make 316 dollars a month.
salazar		That's your past.  I want to talk about your future.  Would you be willing to do something for me?
javier		If I can.
salazar		I'm trying to bust the Tijuana Cartel.
javier		What is it you want me to do?
salazar		A small thing.  Nothing really.
javier		Does this offer include my partner?
salazar		Only if he can be trusted.
javier		He'll do what I say.
salazar		His name is Francisco Flores.  He is a killer and gun smuggler for the Tijuana cartel.  I need to speak with him.  I need you to find him and bring him to me so that I can speak with him.
manolo		This is fucking crazy.  Instead of killing us, he sends us on a suicide mission.  Do you know who Frankie Flowers is?  He's a psycho-cokehead- hitman.  A faggot.  He's killed fucking who knows how many people. You'd need half the force to get close to him.  And you can't get their help because he lives in fucking San Diego.
javier		Then I guess I'm going by myself.
robert		What's it like?  Imagine you're being accosted by a swarm of beggars in the heart of Calcutta, except the beggars are wearing $1500 suits and they don't say "please" or "thank you."
caroline		What about legalizing everything? Has anybody talked about that?
robert		Fine -- legalization.  Okay, forgetting all of our international trade agreements, legalize everything today.  The Government inserts itself into all drug transactions.  The U.S. becomes a giant pharmacy.  Our borders are mobbed, lines of people from here to Europe wanting to smoke, snort and shoot themselves into oblivion.
barbara		 Like a Grateful Dead Concert.
robert		Drugs begin pouring out of America into every other country in the world. Canada is completely overwhelmed.
caroline		What if every country legalized at the same time?
robert		 Somehow, I don't see that happening.
barbara		So you know we put the case before the arbitration panel, none of whom had any expertise.  Superfund is just one of those words.  People stop paying attention.
robert		That's frustrating.
barbara		It's so frustrating.
caroline		 Did you meet the President?
barbara		Honey, your father knows the President.
robert		As it happens, the President of the United States, my new boss, the leader of the free world, has me penciled in for some "face time".
caroline		Will we get invited to the White House?
robert		I don't know.
caroline		How long's the job?
robert		It's a presidential appointment so... until I quit or get fired.
barbara		Czar for life, just like a real czar.
caroline		That makes mom the Czarina.  I'm a Czarette.  Like Anastasia.
caroline		None of my friends can fucking believe my dad is the actual Drug Czar.
barbara		Caroline --
caroline		Sorry, but I mean, come on.
caroline		It's great, daddy.  It's just amazing, that's all.
arnie		Helena, I'm so sorry --
helena		Arnie, thank God.
helena		Can you please tell me what on earth is going on?
arnie		I understand.  You're upset.  You want to know what's going on.  That's good.
helena		Why are you talking like that?
arnie		Listen to me carefully.  First of all, Carl isn't here.  DEA's got him and they'll hang on to him until arraignment, which will probably be tomorrow.  So here you're wasting your time.  Are you with me?
arnie		Good.  From now on I want you to expect that every word you utter will be tape-recorded, that the movement of your lips is being read. Got it?
helena		Arnie, this is crazy.
arnie		Got it?  Good.  Do not discuss anything over the telephone.  Do not talk to the neighbors.  Stay out of your yard.
helena		What is he being charged with?
arnie		I don't know, but under no circumstances would I talk about it here.  I want you to go home and relax the best you can.  Continue your life as if nothing has happened. That is very important.
helena		Arnie, I feel like Alice stepping through the looking glass.
arnie		That's a very apt analogy, Helena. Now, go home and be with your children.
later		Javi is working on his second beer when he seems to recognize somebody.
salazar		 I'm curious how you did this with such economy.
javier		Everybody has a weakness.
caroline		All I'm saying, what I'm saying, is it never seems like anybody ever says anything that matters to them, like we all look at each other and nod with responses we've been trained to make, not real responses, just social conventions, phony, fake smiles, surface bullshit... I mean, we're all smart and do we have any idea what each other are like, really like?  Do I know what Seth's afraid of, or Vanessa, or fucked-up Bowman?
caroline		...Probably, but do I ever say this stuff, just say, "hey, I'm uncomfortable in this crowd, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing, either? I know you're afraid and it's okay-- "
seth		We act like we have all the answers and we're totally invincible like our parents seem and their parents before them and it's fucking bullshit --
seth		For instance I know you jack-off thinking about Caroline even though you're supposedly "in love" with Vanessa.  Whatever the fuck that means?  I mean, what is that convention, anyway?  We're all these random collections of self-interest, and then we just decide that now we're two people walking along --
caroline		And Vanessa doesn't think she's pretty so she does all these weird fucking diets which is totally about self- esteem.  And she's beautiful.  Okay.  Okay, I'm worried I'm not really smart or that I'm not nearly as smart as people think I am, or that my parents' expectations have been way too high since I was five, I mean who knows they're going to Harvard when they're five, not that I'm blaming them for anything because everything's great, and I may not even get in, but we all feel this shit and we never acknowledge it and if we can't acknowledge it to the people we care the most about then who will we ever say it too and what kind of life will that be?
caroline		 Ach, that's what I'm talking about. Sarcasm.  Always fucking sarcasm. You're afraid and you think if you admit it people will think you're weak or won't like you --
seth		We live our lives by these unspoken rules that are handed to us.
vanessa		Let's be different --
vanessa		He's blue.  He isn't breathing --
caroline		Is he breathing?
seth		What do we do?  Okay.  Fucked-up Bowman's turning blue.  Doctor.  We need a doctor.
vanessa		Your dad's a doctor.  Call him --
seth		He's a research doctor.  You're dad's a doctor, too --
vanessa		What kind of research?
seth		Mapping the fucking pig genome. We'll call your dad, he's a neurosurgeon --
vanessa		It's three a.m.  I'm not supposed to be here.  I snuck out --
caroline		Are you kidding...  I'm staying with you --
seth		He's gonna fucking die right here on the kitchen floor --
another kid		He can't.  My parents are in Barbados --
seth		Nobody has anything on them, right?
torturer		We know Tijuana Cartel gunmen killed our chief of intelligence, Francisco. We know you killed police commanders in Tijuana and Mexico City.  Why do you resist?
francisco		My father is rich.  He'll pay you.
torturer		Not the correct answer, my friend.
torturer		We know that you went after the neighbor of General Salazar, a simple alfalfa farmer.  His grand-daughter was shot.  This is stupid behavior, Francisco.
stewie		This is fabulous, Helena.  What a turnout.
helena		Thank you so much, but I had a lot of help.
nan		It's a turnout because it's a spectacle.  Can you imagine?
alex		I've met her husband, as nice as they come.
stewie		It teaches me a valuable lesson...  Apparently crime pays.
nan		Silly, you knew that already.
tuxedo		Hello. Thank you.  Thank you all. I have the results of the silent auction...
social worker		...How old are you?
caroline		Sixteen
social worker		Live with your parents?
caroline		Yes.
social worker		Parents still together?
caroline		Yes.
social worker		Do you work?
caroline		I volunteer.  I read to blind people. One day a week for two hours.
social worker		In school?
caroline		Cincinnati Country Day.
social worker		Private?
caroline		Yeah.
social worker		How are your grades?
caroline		I'm third in my class.
social worker		What's that mean?
caroline		I get A's.  All A's.
social worker		You do?  What else you do?
caroline		 I'm a National Merit Finalist.  I'm on the Hi-Q team and the Math team. I'm in the Spanish Club.  I'm a Thespian.  I'm Vice-President of my class.  I'm on the volleyball team.
social worker		You wanna tell me what you're doing here, Caroline?
barbara		Oh, honey.  Are you all right?
caroline		Did you tell Dad?
barbara		Not yet.
caroline		Are you going to?
barbara		I don't know.
caroline		Is this bad for him?
barbara		What do you think?
helena		 I am on the board of my son's school. I had a fundraiser for A.L.V. in my front yard.  I have a right to know if my husband is a legitimate businessman.
arnie		Of course he is.  I've known him for twenty years and he doesn't jaywalk...
arnie		...Carl is a very important member of this community and when we're through suing the police and the district attorney and the DEA, they'll have to rename the public parks for your husband.
arnie		 Your husband is very good at his job...
arnie		Which is smuggling illegal drugs into this country.
castro		They're whispering.  I can't hear them, but I know it.  I smell conspiracy.  I feel the lie vibrating out of the home.
gordon		She ain't in on it.
castro		I have dreams about this, actual dreams about busting the top people, the rich people, the white people.
gordon		I'm telling you, she doesn't know shit.
castro		She knows Arnie Metzger.
gordon		So does half of San Diego.
castro		You want to make a wager on this?
helena		If all our assets are frozen and our "sales force" has scattered...  How am I supposed to survive?  I'm giving birth in three months.  How do I get through this?
arnie		You're gonna get through it, but the first thing we do is get Michael Adler to represent Carl.  We get Adler and we beat this thing.
helena		How much do I pay him?
arnie		I suspect he'll accept his payment in publicity.
robert		Caroline?  How well did you know this boy who overdosed?
caroline		He didn't hang around us.  He's like one of those hippie kids.  I'm not part of that group.  It was a party in all these rooms.  His girlfriend who I barely know was completely hysterical... He's blue, he's puking... We didn't want to get in trouble, but what were we supposed to do?  I mean, what would you have done if you had been us?
barbara		How well do you know this boy, Seth, who was driving?  You know the police have charged him with a DUI and possession of marijuana.
caroline		He's a friend.  He's also like the only one who was dealing with the situation.  He'd definitely had a few beers, but it's not like he wanted to drive.  We didn't know what else to do.  It wasn't my pot.
robert		Okay, honey.  We understand.  You're mother and I have to talk.
barbara		Honey, we'd like to talk alone.
caroline		Like always.
robert		I think she's lying.
barbara		Me, too.
robert		 We'll ground her, clip her wings a bit.  School and scheduled activities and that's it until further notice. This has to be handled delicately. Dan Kelly, in the District Attorney's office, will probably help us out, quietly.  Christ, this could be embarrassing.
barbara		Honey, this is difficult, but we've all had our moments.  I tried --
robert		Stop.  You experimented in college. I don't want to hear about that.
barbara		Should we take the quotes off experiment and call it what it is?
robert		This is different.
barbara		Why?
robert		To begin with, she's only sixteen years-old.
barbara		I think she has to find out for herself, on her own.  We have to allow her space --
robert		Space for what?  To O.D. like that other kid?  I will not send the message that this type of behavior is okay with her parents.  Because it isn't.  Correct?
barbara		We don't want to push her away. These are growing experiences.
robert		How long have you known about this?
robert		 How long have you known?
barbara		Six months.  I found some marijuana, that's all.  And a little pipe about two inches long.  I talked with her. She said her friends smoked pot and drank --
robert		Explain to me how you could think that I shouldn't know about this. Explain to me how this wouldn't be relevant to me.  As a parent.
barbara		She asked me not to.
salazar		You watch and learn.  I earn his trust.  Then more pain.  Then I appear with kindness.  Within a week he will follow me around like a dog.
javier		But will he be house-trained?
salazar		When he loves me like a father, he will never tell anyone he was here. He will freely give the names of his superiors.  Then we get them and they too will give us names.  And eventually somebody will get us to Juan Obregon and the cartel will fall.
salazar		This is shameful.  A disgrace. Francisco Flores --
salazar		It's all right, son.  It's all right. Salazar is here.  You're among gentlemen, now.  This shameful treatment will stop immediately.  Guard!
salazar		I want to know who is responsible for this treatment.
guard		Yes, sir!
salazar		We aren't barbarians.
guard		Yes, sir!
salazar		Bring this man a change of good clothes.  Has he eaten?
guard		I don't know, sir.
salazar		 You will dine with me from now on.
prosecutor		This is a man who heads a large criminal organization with international contacts we can only begin to understand.  Our case against him is very strong.  He is not a flight risk.  His flight is assured. The people ask that your honor denies bail.
adler		My client is no more a flight risk than your Honor or the able prosecutor.  He is a pillar of his community, a family man with a wife and child in La Jolla, the community where he has made his home for over twenty years.  As our defense will quickly show, my client is guilty of nothing more than being a handy target for an admitted criminal.  Therefore we ask that you release Carl Ayala on his own recognizance.
judge		I'm gonna deny bail.
reporter		Mrs. Ayala, were you aware your husband is the largest cocaine smuggler in America?
adler		Alleged, people, alleged.
adler		Carl Ayala sits on the board of the Children's Hospital.  He is heavily involved with Adult Literacy.  He has a small boy and another child on the way.  If you spread this kind of innuendo, you can expect legal recourse.  Are we clear on this point?
robert		I appreciate you coming in so early.
robert		Still, this was a sensitive issue for me and I wanted to thank you personally.
robert		I don't know what you mean.
robert		I... I don't really know.
robert		No, of course not.  She's one of the top students at her school.
robert		 It's Robert.  Wipe your schedule clean for the next three days.  I'm tired of talking to experts who never set foot outside the beltway.  It's time to see the front lines.
gordon		You should see little Montel play. Little Montel is the next Maradona.
castro		Maradona is a cokehead.  Hand of God, my ass.  We're wasting our time here.
gordon		He won.  He was a winner.  That bothers you.
castro		Winners don't do coke.  Or haven't you been reading the bumper stickers?
gordon		What do we have here?
helena		David, come back here this minute. David!
helena		David --
david		We're playing!
strange man		Yeah, this is fun.
helena		Please put down my son.
strange man		Shouldn't let your kid wander off with strangers.
helena		Thank you.  That's a valuable lesson. David, come on.
strange man		Mrs. Ayala --
strange man		Your husband owes a lot of money. Enough that snapping this kid's neck wouldn't nearly cover it.
strange man		You better come up with it in a hurry or your kid is going to disappear, and he won't turn up until the evening news.
strange man		You get exactly one warning.
strange man		The first payment is three million dollars.
gordon		Are you getting this on tape?
castro		I love my job.  I love it.  The next time I'm having a bad day you gotta remind me of right now and I'll get over it.
manolo		A group of us are going out tonight.
javier		Who?
manolo		Guzman, Tomas, Esteban --
javier		Your new friends.
manolo		Yeah.  It should be fun.  You wanna come?
javier		Not this time.
francisco		In my home I have B&W speakers.  I recently purchased a compact disc burner.  I can make my own cd's, with whatever music I like, as if I bought them at the store, only I don't have to pay these crazy prices.
salazar		We have much in common.  We both attended school in the United States, and both of our fathers are engineers.
francisco		I got into stereo equipment when I was a kid.  Some people don't notice the difference but it is very important to me.
salazar		Of course it is.  Have some more wine.
salazar		Now, Francisco, my friend... I must know where these men are who killed my captains.  Not where they were last week, but where they are today, and better still, tomorrow. You are clever.  You can predict where they will be, can't you?
francisco		I can't go home.  I don't want to go.  Please don't make me.
javier		It's not our decision.
francisco		I'll be killed.
javier		Stop complaining.  Nobody knows what you've been up to.
ruiz		Carlos, I mean Carl, started out in the family connection business: real estate in Tijuana, fishing boats out of Ensenada, hydroponic raspberries. He met up with the Obregon brothers of the Tijuana Cartel who were interested in two things: entering society and using his fishing boats.
gordon		So you pay off our customs officials?
ruiz		In Mexico law enforcement is an entrepreneurial activity, this is not so true for the USA.  Using regression analysis we made a study of the customs lanes at the border and calculated the odds of a search.  The odds are not high, and we found variables that reduce the odds.  We hire drivers with nothing to lose.  Then we throw a lot of product at the problem.  Some get stopped.  Enough get through.  It's not difficult.
castro		You'd think he wasn't sitting here facing life in prison.
ruiz		This has worked for years and it will continue to work for years. NAFTA makes everything more difficult for you.  The border is disappearing.  Let me be the first to  tell you, your government surrendered this war a long time ago.
gordon		 This attitude's not gonna help him any, is it?
ruiz		I got greedy.  I decided to bring a little in on my own and somebody tipped you off.  That was my mistake. Carl would never be so stupid.
gordon		He hired you.  That was a mistake.
ruiz		Carl and I were friends from childhood.  He was loyal, that's not a mistake.
official		The busiest land border crossing in the world.  Over forty-one thousand vehicles per day, twenty-two thousand pedestrians on foot.  I think we do a pretty good job but we know a lot of drugs are still getting through.
robert		Any idea how much?
official		I've read official estimates but I wouldn't bet my house on them.  I've heard the entire cocaine supply for the United States can fit into four tractor-trailers.  At least a half-dozen of those cars right out there are carrying a load of dope, with drivers employed by people who don't give a damn if they're caught or not.
robert		What do you look for?
official		We ask questions and measure the answers.  When something doesn't ring true, a fact that doesn't make sense, a slight hesitation, then it's off to secondary for a closer look.  Before NAFTA we had about 1.9 million trucks a year.  Now it's almost double.  Pretty soon there'll be Mexican truck companies that will have as much freedom in crossing the border as American truck companies.
robert		Any way we can do it better?
official		Sure.  More money in intelligence on their side of the border.  So we have a better idea who we're looking for.  More dogs.  More people. Supposed to be getting some giant x- ray machines to run the trucks through.  Outside of martial law that's about the best you're gonna do.  In the last six months seizures have tripled, even though we're pulling over the same number of cars.  What does that tell you?
robert		That triple the amount of stuff is going through.
official		Right.  But, that's not the biggest problem.  One of our Intel officers picked up information from DEA that traffickers have come up with a process, a chemical process, to turn coke into something else.  It doesn't smell like coke.  It doesn't look like coke.  And what's worse, it doesn't react to field test.  It could be anything.  Maybe it's already happening.  I mean, how would we know?
helena		 Yes, hi Jenny, account number 4168
helena		What's the largest amount I can get?  Okay, I guess that'll have to do.
gordon		What do we do?
castro		I don't know.
gordon		What do you think she wants?
castro		She's your girlfriend.  Open it, talk about your kids.
helena		I so hope I didn't startle you.  I thought you might like some cold lemonade.
gordon		Uh... Thank you.
helena		I know this is a difficult situation and you're only doing your jobs.  I don't bear you any ill-will, but I do have a small favor to ask.
castro		You want to ask us a favor?
helena		A man threatened my children. These charges have attracted a lot of attention and it seems to be bringing all the nut-jobs out of the nut jar.  Would you keep an eye out for anything out of the ordinary.  I don't know what else to do.
gordon		Of course, we will.
helena		Thank you.
castro		It's probably poisoned.
gordon		It's good.  Not too sweet.
javier		Anna.  What's wrong?  What do you want?
anna		I can't find Manolo.
javier		He's not here.
anna		He never came home last night.  Was he with you?
javier		No.
anna		I'm worried.  Last time he was out late, I went through his clothes while he was asleep.
javier		I'll find him.
javier		What the fuck are you doing? You're supposed to be at work. Look at you.
manolo		It's no problem.  I was just with everybody we work with.
javier		Oh, really.  General Salazar was there?
manolo		No, but a lot of other people.  You should come.  You should come out with us.
javier		Go home.  Get cleaned up.  Get to work.  Salazar is heading down to Mexico City next week and I'm not getting left behind.  Don't fuck this up.
hughes		The word going around is you're not that happy in your work.  Maybe we can help.
seth		You know my dad takes eight red cold pills every day?  He and my mom have cocktail hour every night, from six to seven, set your clock, two bourbons --
caroline		Maybe we could show up and smoke a little rock with them to unwind --
seth		Yeah, then some dope to take the edge off at the end of a long day.
caroline		Have you done your homework, honey?
seth		Yes, mom --
caroline		Then here's a little bump.
seth		Drugs weren't even a problem until a hundred years ago when the white men in power declared them a problem. Opiates.  But, who was using 'em? Chinese immigrants.  Slave labor. And the darkies up in the inner cities dancing to them evil rhythms of ju- ju music.  People on the fringe. Artists.  Decadent rich people.  And who got scared?  White men in power. Who's scared today?  White men in power.  If J.P. Morgan and John D. Rockefeller ever admitted using, it'd be a whole different story.
street dealer		What you want?
seth		911, and the come down.
street dealer		How much?
seth		Two hundred of C, hundred of the other.
caroline		Come on... We've been here before.
street dealer		Then, let's see your money.
street dealer		Up the steps.  You the experts.  You know what to do.
junkie		What are you two, about twelve?
caroline		Fuck off.
seth		Caroline, give me your money.
sketch		Goodbye... Caroline.
seth		 Yeah, right.
street dealer		Now, get the fuck out of here.
deskman		Then you hand me twenty-eight dollars.
seth		I love this place.
seth		Did Courtney Love play Nancy in Syd and Nancy?
caroline		I think so.  If she didn't she should have.  I've only got maybe an hour.  Then volleyball practice is over and I have to be home.
seth		Why?  Nobody's there.
caroline		 The maid... They ask her what time I get back.  She spies for them.
caroline		I wish we could stay here.  Just be here forever and ever.  Make it a little home.
seth		I want to have sex and do a hit right as we're coming.
caroline		Okay.
robert		Who are these guys?
robert		He died in a liposuction surgery, right?
robert		Who do we interface with on their side?
robert		I mean, who runs interdiction on the Mexico side?
robert		I want everyone thinking out the box for a second.  What are we gonna do about Mexico?  Come on, guys.  Out of the box.
robert		Unlimited.
robert		Come on.  I want to hear from everyone: FBI.  Customs.  Treatment. Is there anyone from treatment on this plane?  So, as of right now, this flight only, consider the dam on new ideas thrown open.
robert		If I'm not mistaken, we got DEA, Pentagon, U.S. Attorneys office, about a billion dollars of budget right here.  So what are you people waiting for?
arnie		On a clear day you can see Mexico City.
arnie		This place is swept twice a day.  I learned that in Miami in '85.  Then the U.S. shut down the whole Caribbean, but it's a big game of wack-a-mole.  Knock it down in Miami, it pops up here.  And San Diego is so much more relaxing.
helena		Arnie, I need money.  Somebody threatened my children.  They want a first payment of three million dollars.
arnie		Helena, if I had it I would give it to you, but I don't have that kind of money.
helena		Arnie, help me.  Doesn't anyone owe us money?
arnie		Yes, I told you before, there are people who owe you money but they're not paying.  There's too much heat on Carl.
helena		Please.  Tell me who Carl sells to.
arnie		Even if I knew I wouldn't tell you. You do not want to come into contact with these people.  Only Carl knows who they are.  That's his real asset. Ruiz doesn't know them.  They don't know Ruiz.  Church and State.
helena		What about legitimate businesses? We own a construction concern, real estate --
arnie		Laundromats for the washing of money. Unfortunately, Carl had only one successful business.
helena		Don't you have some good news?  Isn't there something positive you could say.
helena		 Sometimes I wonder what I'll do if Carl doesn't get out.  I'm not very adept at being on my own.  I've always had a man in my life.  Always.
arnie		I remember when I first met you: little Helen Watts from the wrong side of somewhere.  I had a feeling even then that your survival instincts were pretty well honed.
helena		I'm glad you think so, but I'm picturing a debt-ridden, thirty-two year-old mother whose ex-husband is being compared to Pablo Escobar.  And I'm wondering who would want to be with someone like that?
rosario		You two don't like me, do you?
javier		We don't have an opinion on you.
rosario		 Maybe it's because I'm getting an apartment nicer than anything you'll ever see in your life?
rosario		 I can't believe the old man kept his promise.
javier		The General is a man of his word.
rosario		They will say anything to get what they want, but then you remind them, it's always tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow.  Occupational hazard, I guess.
rosario		His friend is giving us the apartment so it's not like he paid.  It's more like a favor.
rosario		You don't have the keys.  Oh that's perfect.  Are you an idiot?
manolo		There's supposed to be someone here to let you in.
manolo		Madrigal's alive.
javier		What?
manolo		Porfirio Madrigal is not dead.  I just saw him.
javier		This is why Salazar is so interested in cleaning up Tijuana.  Madrigal, who's supposed to be dead, owns him. And Madrigal is making a move on Juan Obregon.
manolo		Javi!  Come on.  Don't pull this you don't care bullshit.  This is incredible information.  It must be. Javi --
javier		We keep our mouths shut.
robert		I think we may have found our Mexican Drug Czar.  It's this General, Salazar.  At least I'll have somebody on the other side I can talk to.
barbara		Does this mean you're going to be gone more?
robert		Possibly.
barbara		You might want to pencil in a little face-time with your daughter.
robert		Barbara --
barbara		Because I'm at the edge of my capabilities, Robert.
robert		The first thing we have to do is present a unified front.
barbara		If you start in on the war metaphors I'm going to drive this car into a fucking telephone pole.
robert		Look, I'm as worried as you are --
barbara		No, I don't think so.  Leave me alone, give me money.  That's what I get from our daughter.  She has a way of shutting me out that seems very familiar.
robert		Yeah, well, she has a way of self- medicating that probably seems familiar, too.
barbara		I'm not the one who has to have three scotches just to walk in the door and say hello.
robert		I have a drink before dinner to take the edge off my day.  That's different.
barbara		Oh, it is?
robert		Yeah, because the alternative is to be bored to death.
barbara		Why don't you go in and tell your daughter how bored you are.
caroline		 Who is it?  I'm going to the bathroom.
caroline		One minute.
caroline		Excuse me --
robert		You're not going anywhere, young lady.
robert		Where is it?  Where are the drugs?  Where are they?
caroline		Fuck you.  I wasn't doing anything. You're like the Gestapo.
robert		Fuck me?  Oh, okay.  Fuck me.  Fuck you.
robert		I'm going to ask you one time to tell me the truth so that I can help you.
robert		Okay, young lady, that's it.
caroline		Like I give a fuck.
robert		What is wrong with you?  What?  You're going away.  You're getting help somewhere.
caroline		You can't make me.
robert		Oh, yes I can.
javier		Where are we going?
hughes		Special Agent Hughes, Drug Enforcement Administration of the United States.
javier		 Where are you taking me?
johnson		Somewhere safe.
javier		Where?
johnson		A place we have, that we know is protected.
javier		No.
hughes		It's really safe.
javier		Not for me.
johnson		Okay.  Where would you like to go?
javier		It's important that we work together. Mexico.  America.  One hand washing the other.
johnson		We agree.
javier		So... maybe you tell me about your informants in our operations.
johnson		 We thought maybe you'd have that kind of information for us.
javier		 This is a very different proposition.
johnson		We pay for that kind of information.
johnson		Is that what you're talking about, Javier?
javier		Ten years ago Tijuana had no drug problem.  Now it is epidemic.  What I'm talking about is I would like to see somebody take an interest in Tijuana.  That's what I'm talking about.
hughes		Javi, You want to come see us again, you're going on the box.  No more of this water-wing bullshit.
johnson		You wanna tell me what the hell that was all about?
hughes		He's got something.  We just have to be patient.
carl		How's David?
helena		How's David? How's David? He's terrific, Carl.
carl		Helena --
helena		We watched his father get dragged away by federal agents.  I don't even know how to begin to tell him where you are or when you're coming back... Or if you're coming back.
carl		 We'll get through this, I promise. I'll make it up to you --
helena		 Tell me again how we'll get through this, and maybe while you're at it you can put your hand up against the glass so we can have a tender moment of connection.
carl		Helena --
helena		Tell me what to do, Carl.  I need guidance, not a fucking platitude.  I'm not bringing a child into the kind of life I grew up with.  I won't do it.  I want our life back.
carlos		I built our house and I don't want to lose it.  Every stone, every brick, every board.  Into selling it.  If you can stomach it, you should look into it.
helena		I don't understand.
carlos		Look into the Coronel; otherwise, there is nothing to do.
marty		So it was my birthday an my ex-wife was getting remarried and I was in some church basement telling a bunch of strangers how it was a good day because I didn't have to eat out of a dumpster.  That was enough to send me out on big one.  It's a disease -- an allergy of the body and an obsession of the mind. I know that now.  So my name's Marty and today I'm a grateful recovering alcoholic who didn't eat out of a dumpster.  Thanks.
caroline		 I mean I don't really like to drink. For someone my age it's so much easier to get drugs than beer.  I don't know, this is really weird and I'm really nervous...
caroline		I guess I'm angry.  I mean I think I'm really angry about a lot of stuff, but I don't know what exactly.
art appraiser		Tamayo.  Carrington.  A simply wonderful collection of Mexican Modern.  Give me three months.  I know several collectors in South America, very discreet.
helena		I don't have three months.
art appraiser		It takes time to find the proper collection.
helena		How much will you give me in cash? Today.
helena		You must be joking.  That's a fraction of their value.
art appraiser		I'm sorry, but that is the figure I can get today.
helena		 Get out.  Get out of my house.
helena		It's all right.  We're have a disagreement, that's all.
salazar		I recruited the best men in Mexico for my task force and put them through a rigorous screening process.  Not only physical, but also psychological.
robert		I'd like to bring you up to Washington, walk you around our side of things, and share some of the information we've been able to develop on your cartels.
salazar		That would be very helpful to me.  Also, I received the offer from DEA and the FBI to train some of my men at Quantico.  I think this will be extremely useful, a good way for us to absorb some of your methods.
salazar		I've been too busy to completely settle in.
robert		You've been making very good progress against the Tijuana cartel.
salazar		Yes, I am confident that Juan Obregon will be taken into custody before the end of the year.  But, you must understand that it is very difficult because of corruption in the police force.  We get a tip that he is one place, then we get there and he is already gone, having been warned by someone on our side.
robert		Hopefully the exchange of training methods and information between our countries will help with this problem.
salazar		Yes, I hope so as well.
robert		Let me ask you a related question. We've talked about the supply side, but what about demand?  What is your policy for treating addiction?
salazar		Addicts treat themselves... they overdose and then there's one less to worry about.
ruiz		This is ridiculous.  Why is there no elevator?
gordon		When the DEA gets into the narcotics business, then we'll stay at the Four Seasons.
castro		Eddie, how you like your new home? I hope you hate it as much as I do.
ruiz		This is not what my lawyers negotiated.
gordon		Fuck your lawyers.  You aren't getting any cappuccino or Biscotti either.
frank		He first came to me in January. That would've been nineteen eighty- seven.  He wanted to rent warehouse space along the harbor.  I didn't ask too many questions; I'm a businessman also.
sheila		I was the company secretary from 1991 to 1994.  I supposedly worked for all six companies.  But... they weren't... I mean, it was just one empty office with a desk and a telephone.  We never sold anything the whole time I was there.  Sometimes people came and got paid.  I don't really know what we did.
prosecutor		Did Mr. Ayala say where the money came from?
sheila		No, and I didn't ask.
prosecutor		Where do you think it came from?
kaufman		This speculation --
prosecutor		I'll rephrase.  Did you feel like you were engaged in a legal enterprise?
sheila		No, not really.
helena		A friend... of Carlos Ayala.
helena		I'm on a special phone, may I speak freely?
helena		I have a job for you and I don't have much time.
francisco		You were followed by the police, but they won't hear us over the children. I want to use a bomb.
helena		You're kidding.  Can't you shoot him or something?
francisco		I don't really like guns.  You shoot someone in the head three times and some doctor will keep them alive.
helena		When will you do it?
francisco		I don't know.  Eduardo Ruiz is the only real witness against Carl.  The security is very tight.  There may not be a way.
helena		There's always a way.  If people get to the Pope or the President, you can get to him.
francisco		Careful... You're sounding like your husband, Mrs. Ayala.
javier		What?  What is it?
anna		It's very hard for me to come and tell you this.
anna		It's Manolo.  He's going to do something stupid.  I'm worried that he'll get himself killed.
anna		He's saying he's going to talk to the Americans.  Become an informer.
javier		Why does he need money?
anna		He has debts.  He has gambling debts. He owes a lot of money.
javier		How much?
anna		Nine thousand dollars.
javier		What is he planning on telling them?
anna		Well, you know, he's going to say about Madrigal... and Salazar.
robert		 Yes... I understand.
robert		I have to go.  I have to go home.
barbara		Should we bring the police into this?
robert		No, not yet.
seth		 She's not at that place you sent her?
robert		She snuck away.  And we haven't seen her.  She hasn't come home.
seth		Oh, man --
robert		She hasn't called you?
seth		I tried to talk to her when she was up there, but they wouldn't put me through.  I'm surprised she hasn't called.
hustlers		What you want?  Rock?  Rock?  Hey, what you want?
robert		Can you tell me anything?  Do you have any ideas?
seth		I don't know what to say.
robert		I'm not the police.  I don't care about experimentation.  She's a kid. I'm worried to death.
seth		You won't say anything to my parents?
robert		I don't give a fuck about your parents --
seth		We sometimes went downtown to score.
robert		What?
seth		The West End.  We buy it off the streets.  I can stop, you know, and she can't. Two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it's like a weekend thing, then I get my shit together, and for her it's different --
robert		You don't know what the hell you're talking about.  You're a cocky seventeen year-old and you don't have a clue what the stakes are. You don't know the value of the life you've yet to throw away.  And neither does she.
face		 What do you want?
robert		 What do you mean, what do I want?
face		Rock or dope, man?
robert		I don't want anything.
seth		Hey man, I'm sorry.  I'm just trying to help.
robert		You want to help?  Stay the fuck away from her.
robert		I'm looking for my daughter.
sketch		What the fuck do you want?
sketch		You want some of that?
sketch		What you gonna do to get some of that?
caroline		Please --
sketch		What you gonna do?
sketch		Maybe a taste.
sketch		Feed this to you like a little bird.
caroline		Don't --
sketch		You want this?
sketch		This is the Express train.  Baby turnin' pro and getting down in a big, big hole.
sketch		Kiss it.  Kiss your new mommy hello.
adler		Your honor, it has come to our attention that your honor, while in private practice, previously represented the town of Seal Beach in their stop-work suit against the Police Department of Seal Beach.  We believe this disqualifies you from hearing this case and we therefore move for a temporary suspension while this is investigated.
judge		Mr. Adler, this is a most unusual motion.
adler		Nonetheless, your honor, we feel that our client deserves every fairness afforded under the law.
judge		If this is in any way designed to delay the testimony of Eduardo Ruiz...
judge		We'll recess until 9:00 am Monday morning.  And I'll see counsel in chambers.
castro		Remember when we sat on that mob guy, that chef, for like six months?
gordon		Oh, man, I've never eaten so good in my life.  Why don't you develop a useful skill?
castro		Yeah, like turning into a beautiful woman.
ruiz		Would you mind if today we walked? It's one block.  I could use the fresh air.
francisco		 They're not getting into the car. What are they doing?  They're walking right at me.
helena		 You've got a gun.  Get out of the car and shoot him in the head.
francisco		 They're going to walk right past me.
castro		Stay here.  I'll get the car.
gordon		 The car --
gordon		 No --
manolo		No.  I'm looking for the waiter.  I want to order.
manolo		A steak.
manolo		That's okay, really.
manolo		I was going to feed them wrong information.  Feed them lies to... it was for...
manolo		Don't tell Anna I died like this. Tell her it was something else. Tell her it was official business. Tell her that I died doing something honorable.  Please, tell her that for me...
somebody else		Are you sure you don't have anything to tell us?
arnie		That was a stupid thing you did. Incredibly stupid.
helena		I tried, Arnie.  And, I will continue to try.
arnie		Have you gone crazy?  You are not Carl.  You aren't as good as Carl.  They are moving the trial to a high security location.  The press has gone berserk.  The jury will be influenced.  Stay out of things. Let us try to win the case.
helena		That is going to be rather difficult when all the evidence is against us.
arnie		Helena, please.  This is out of your hands.
helena		 I know I made things worse.  I know that and I'm sorry, but Arnie I need something from you.  Something only you can help me with.
arnie		Helena --
helena		I need an introduction to the Obregon Brothers.
arnie		I can't do that.
helena		I figured out what Carl was up to and I need your help.  Will you help me?
robert		About the other night, I'm sorry.
barbara		Me, too.
robert		God, I don't get it.  Are we supposed to say to ourselves, be prepared to lose her, be prepared to lose our child?  Why does this happen to someone? How does it happen?
barbara		I don't know.
marquez		Mrs. Ayala.  Thank you for coming. I am Juan Marquez, I work for Mr. Obregon.  I believe you know my associate, "Tigrillo," the Little Tiger.
helena		Yes, he threatened to kill my five year-old son.  I was under the impression I would be meeting Juan Obregon.
marquez		No, this is not possible.  And I thank you for coming down here, though I suspect it's been a pointless journey.
helena		Why do you say that, Mr. Marquez?
marquez		I hear these stories.  Your husband in jail.  His business in chaos. Various people fighting over the scraps.
helena		My husband is the victim of an informer in your organization, not ours.
marquez		That is not true, Mrs. Ayala.  Your route is compromised.  Perhaps it is time for me to deal with other distributors in California.
helena		I don't think you're going to do that.
marquez		You don't?  Listen to this woman in a man's world, a very violent world.
helena		There are plenty of other suppliers in Mexico.
marquez		But not in whose interest it is to help you out of debt.
helena		My husband had been working on something he called, The Project for the Children.  Are you aware of this?
marquez		I don't know.  Perhaps I remember something.
helena		We have the ability to change the color, odor, and physical property of cocaine.
marquez		You want to smuggle narcotics in Mr. Espastico Jacobo.  That's nothing new.
helena		Not in...
helena		This doll is cocaine.
helena		Every part, from his ears to his accessory belt, is high-impact, pressure-molded cocaine.  Odorless. Undetectable by dogs.  Undetectable by anyone.
marquez		I don't believe you.
helena		Get a bowl.
helena		Try it.
marquez		You first.
helena		I'm six months pregnant.  I won't do it.
marquez		Fine, then we don't have deal.
helena		Fine, then we don't have a deal.
marquez		Okay, okay.
marquez		That's good coke.
helena		It should be... It's yours.  I want our debt forgiven.  I want to be the exclusive distributor of Obregon Brothers Cocaine for the United States.  And I want the principle witness against my husband, Eduardo Ruiz, killed.
marquez		Perhaps... Perhaps... I'm afraid I must first ask you to pass a test. I asked the same of your husband and he succeeded with flying colors.
marquez		Take this back with you.  Deliver it safely to Tigrillo in San Diego and we have a deal.
helena		That's crazy.  My husband is on trial for smuggling.
marquez		Exactly, and this is how I know I'm not getting into business with the U.S. Government.
helena		You will help me with my other problem.
marquez		Deliver that safely to Tigrillo in San Diego.  And we have a deal.
javier		...And I have the electronic serial numbers for their cellular phones. They change them every twenty-four hours but I have a contact at MexTel who can get me the new ESNs within twelve.
hughes		That's good shit.
javier		Now that you have what you want, let's talk about how I get what I want.
johnson		Oh, don't worry, Javier, you're not gonna have any problems there.
hughes		I want to take a minute and talk about what type of precautions you're taking to protect yourself.  When Salazar and Madrigal go down, they might send someone to see you.
javier		You worry about getting me the things that I want.  I'll worry about myself.
johnson		You should feel good about this.
javier		I feel like a traitor.
customs officer		Please step from the car, Ma'am.
helena		I'm in a hurry --
customs officer		Step from the car, Ma'am.  This won't take long from your day.
officer		Ma'am, we have to ask you to come with us.
customs matron		Ma'am, we have reason to believe you may have illegal drugs hidden beneath your clothing.  I need to conduct a pat down search.  Supervisory Inspector Haig will witness the search.
helena		You've got to be kidding me.  I'm pregnant.  What if I refuse?
customs matron		This pamphlet explains the law and your rights under it.  You're welcome to read it first.  It says we have the authority to conduct this search. Would you like to read it first or shall we proceed?
gordon		Yes.
agent		Excuse me, Agent Gordon.  Mrs. Castro.  Helena Ayala left Club Platinum in Tijuana.  The Obregon Brothers' place. They stopped her at the border but she was clean.  She's in San Diego now.
helena		Did you get it?
arnie		What are you thinking, calling me at home with a message like that?  You've compromised me and our relationship --
helena		 Arnie.  I'm the housewife.  I belong to the most exclusive country club in La Jolla that accepts Latinos. Until recently, I believed my husband imported hydroponic strawberries, which I donated at the school fair.
helena		It's the same stuff?  From the rainy day stash?
arnie		It's the same.  What happened to what they gave you?
helena		I'm desperate, but I'm not stupid.
robert		Hello.
robert		No, it's all right.
robert		What?  I thought Madrigal was dead. I thought it was verified.
robert		I'll get there as soon as I can.
robert		 I have to call you back.
barbara		The silver wedding cup.
barbara		My Leica's gone.
robert		So's the video camera.
barbara		At least she's alive.
barbara		Where are you going?
robert		She'll be at a pawn shop in an hour.
seth		Hey man, what are you doing?
robert		Seth has to be excused.  He's going on a field trip.
helena		Come on.  Time to go.
helena		 Should we stop for ice-cream?
david		Yeah!
seth		I don't know, maybe we missed her.
robert		I can't believe you used to bring my daughter here, to this place.
seth		Hey man, back the fuck up.  To this place.  What's that shit?  Right now, all over this country, a hundred thousand white people from the suburbs are driving around downtown asking every black person they see, You got any drugs?  You know where I can get drugs?  What kind of effect you think this has on the psyche of a black person, on their possibilities?  If you sent a hundred thousand black people into your neighborhood, Indian Hills, and they asked every white person they saw, hey, you got any drugs?, within a day, your friends and their kids would be selling. It's market forces, man.  The product's marked up three hundred percent.  You can go out on the street and make five hundred bucks in two hours and then do whatever you want for the rest of the day.  You think white people would still be going to law school?
robert		You're starting to piss me off.  Get out of the car.
seth		You're gonna get me killed.
sketch		What do you want?
robert		I'm looking for my daughter, Caroline. She comes here.
sketch		This is a business.  Get the fuck outta here.
robert		I need to find my daughter.  I'll pay you.
sketch		Who the fuck do you think you are? Where the fuck do you think you are? Why the fuck do you think I shouldn't just put you in a dumpster?
robert		I have money --
sketch		I got money.
robert		I'll pay you a thousand dollars.  I have it in my wallet.
sketch		I want your money, I'll take your money.
robert		Just tell me where she is.
sketch		 Don't do that shit again.
seth		Great.  What a good idea.
seth		Man, I'm telling you.  Don't do this vigilante thing.  Either the cops find her or she'll call you.  I promise.
javier		 Anna.  Anna, please.  Let me in.
javier		Come on.  You can't stay locked in your house all day.
javier		I know this is a tragedy, but you have to realize that good has come out of it.
javier		If Manolo hadn't gone and told them what he did then Salazar and Madrigal would never have been brought to justice.  He did a great thing for Tijuana.  He did a great thing for Mexico.
anna		I want to believe you.  I really do.
javier		You will believe me, because it's true.
seth		Open the door.  Open the fucking door, man.
muffled voice		Go away!
seth		I know she's in there.  Let me talk to her.
muffled voice		I don't know what you're talking about.  Go away!
seth		I know she's in there.
john		Hey, I haven't touched her --
caroline		 Hi, Daddy.
caroline		It's gonna be great...  I mean, I'm okay and all, because, see, I met a guy, he's in this pretty famous band and...  They've invited me to write lyrics for them, I'm gonna be able to do that and maybe sing, too... not at first, but later.
caroline		 I've been doing research for the school paper, that's what I've been doing, like on assignment kind-of, I've seen some stuff you wouldn't believe, but I'm gonna write it all down into lyrics.  They think I'm really good, everybody says so, what do you think?
marquez		Salazar and Madrigal are no longer with us.  A feat none of these people could get accomplished.
marquez		You're going to be made the Special Assistant to the new drug Czar, which makes you a very valuable law enforcement officer.  I hope you like to travel because we have plans for Juarez and El Paso, Nogales, Sinaloa, Jalisco, Michoacan...
robert		 How was she?
barbara		 Maybe it's what she needs now.
agent		Big day.  You're a star.
gordon		Go shower.  You smell.
agent		Who is it?
ruiz		Fuck off.
gordon		Where's the love gone, Eddie?
ruiz		You expect me to be grateful for spending the rest of my life looking over my shoulder.
gordon		That thought makes me feel awful.
ruiz		Can't you for a second imagine none of this had happened?  That my drugs had gone through.  What would have been the harm?  A few people get high who are getting high anyway. Your partner is still alive.  We avoid having breakfast together. Don't you see this means nothing? That your whole life is pointless?
gordon		You're breaking my heart.
ruiz		The worst thing about you, Monty, is you realize the futility of what you're doing and you do it anyway. I wish you could see how transparent you are.  This food tastes like shit.
gordon		So go shower already.
ruiz		You only got to me because you were tipped off by the Juarez Cartel, who's trying to break into Tijuana. You're helping them.  You work for a drug dealer too, Monty.
gordon		 And shave.  You better look nice and believable for the jury.
gordon		 It's like having another wife.
gordon		Who is it?
somebody else		Hurry up.  It's getting cold.
gordon		Call an ambulance.  Hurry.
gordon		 Don't die on me.  You will not die on me.  Do you hear me?  Don't you die on me.
prosecutor		Your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury...  Because of the sudden death of Eduardo Ruiz, the people have decided that at this point we cannot continue our case against Carl Ayala.
javier		 This seizure is one of the largest seizures in Mexican history...  It represents the first bilateral effort of the American DEA and the Mexican I.N.C.D.
robert		The cocaine brand, 911, is an East Coast brand, a Juarez Cartel brand, and you must know it usually comes through into El Paso?
javier		I'm aware of that.
robert		So what's it doing in Tijuana?
robert		Let me ask you a hypothetical question: if Salazar worked for Madrigal and the Juaraz cartel, and he went out of power, would it mean the Juarez Cartel is losing influence?
javier		It could mean that, yes.
robert		That would probably mean the Tijuana Cartel is gaining power?
javier		It's possible.
robert		Is it possible to have a Drug Czar in Mexico who isn't connected in some war to one of the cartels?
javier		Yeah, it's possible... if you're prepared to die.
arnie		Carl, I'm running late.  I'm coming right now --
carlos		Don't bother.
carlos		So Arnie, when were you going to tell me about the 3 million dollars we got in from San Francisco two days after I got arrested?
carlos		And you didn't feel like you could trust my wife with this news?
carlos		You had it all figured out.  You move into my house.  You raise my kids.  You sleep with my wife.  It was a good plan, Arnie.
carlos		So my wife is lying?
carlos		Arnie, do think there's a difference between a reason and an excuse, because I don't think there is.
carlos		Goodbye Arnie.
helena		Who was that?
carlos		Arnie.  He's not going to be able to make the barbecue.
helena		Come downstairs.  Everyone is waiting.
gordon		Hello, Helena.  What a great party.
carlos		Who are you?
gordon		Nobody.  I'm a nobody who arrested you, but your wife is a murderer.
security officer		Hey, you can't be in here.
gordon		I'm a cop.
security officer		I don't care.
helena		 Throw him out of here.
gordon		 You didn't win, Helena.  You lost everything.  Tell your children a nice bedtime story...  How you killed my partner.
press secretary		...a sterling reputation and close friend of the President, recently confirmed into The Office of National Drug Control Policy... our new Drug Czar, Robert Hudson Wakefield.
robert		 There has been progress and there have been failures, but where we have fallen short I see not a problem but an opportunity.
robert		An opportunity to correct the mistakes of the past while laying a solid foundation for the future.  This takes not only new ideas, but perseverance.  This takes not only resources, but courage.  This takes not only government, but families.
robert		I've... I've outlined a ten-point plan, representing a new bilateral effort...
robert		I can't do this.  If there is a War on Drugs then our own families have become the enemy. How can you wage war on your own family?
caroline		On the good days I feel like I get it, like it all makes sense.  I can stay in the moment.  I don't have to control everything in the future. And I believe everything is going to work out fine.  But, thanks to the people I've met in these rooms, people like Margaret and Jim and Sarah, people who've taught me how to listen, I'm pretty sure I'll make it through today.
robert		My name is Robert.  This is my wife, Barbara.  We're Caroline's parents. We're just hear to listen.
****Dialogues from script :Training_Day.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Trainspotting.txt****

renton		Right. So we all get old and then we can't hack it any more. Is that it? SICK BOY
spud		I guess this means I'll never get to have sex with Gail.
sick boy		Say something, Mark, say something -- RENTON I'm cooking' up. There is a silence. Renton begins scrambling around through the works. ALLISON
swanney		Sure will, pal, sure will.
****Dialogues from script :Transformers__The_Movie.txt****

arblus		Transform and flee, Kranix! You must warn all you meet of the horror of Unicron! Suddenly, the pitiful creature is surrounded by the strange energy cloud and it looks like his body has simultaneously caught fire and been doused with acid.
kranix		Arblus!   No!
2.		CONTINUED:
narrator		It is the year 2005. The treacherous Decepticons have conquered the Autobots' home planet of Cybertron. But from secret staging grounds on two of Cybertron's moons the valiant Autobots prepare to retake their homeland.
ironhide		Every time I look into this thing, my circuits sizzle. I'm tired of this waiting game, Prime. When are we gonna start bustin' Deceptichops?
optimus prime		We still don't have enough Energon cubes to power a full scale assault, Ironhide.
ironhide		Then let me make another run to Autobot City on Earth. I'll bring you back more cubes than you'll know what to do with.
prime		Alright, ready the shuttle for launch.
ironhide		YAHOO!  Your days are numbered now Decepticreeps.
jazz		No sign of Decepticons in this sector, Prime.
prime		What about Moon Base 2?
another moon		This is the second moon. It is much closer to Cybertron than the first one. This is where Bumblebee and Spike are stationed.
4.		CONTINUED:
bumblebee		Bumblebee and Spike here.
bumblebee		All clear, Jazz. 
spike		Hey,   Ironhide, tell my son, Daniel, I miss   him, and tell him I'll be coming home   as soon as we've kicked Megatron's tail   across the galaxy.
ironhide		Will do, Spike.
prime		Commence countdown, Cliffjumper.
cliffjumper		Five...Four...Three...Two...
cliffjumper		One....
5.		CONTINUED:
prime		Now, all we need is a little Energon and a lot of luck.
ironhide		If I can dodge Dececpticon rays, I can sure as shootin' dodge a couple of asteroids.
prowl		You were saying?
megatron		Die Autobots!
brawn		is cut in half by Megatron's blast.
on prowl		as SCAVENGER MELTS HIM DOWN.
the insecticons		...eat away at the hole in the shuttle to make way for... ...an ARMY of other Decepticons including Laserbeak who enter, firing.
megatron		This was almost too easy, Starscream.
starscream		Much easier, oh mighty Megatron, than attacking the real threat: the Autobots moon base.
megatron		You're an idiot, Starscream. Were we simply to wipe out that minuscule base, they could build another one. 
7.		CONTINUED: MEGATRON  But when we slip by their security systems in their own ship and destroy Autobot city, the Autobots will be vanquished forever!
ironhide		Fat chance, Megatron!
megatron		Such heroic nonsense!
on daniel		Daniel, a classic twelve year old American boy watches the portable viewer which is like an over-sized Boy Scout compass. WIDEN SHOT to show he is at an old fashioned "fishin' hole" on Earth - surrounded by weeping willows, assorted trees and shrubs, and that his fishing pole is stuck in the dirt, the line floating lazily out on the water.
daniel		Let's watch Ironhide land it, Hot Rod! As Daniel runs to small skateboard-like device, hits a button, and watches, it transforms into a hoverboard and rides it, like a surfer up a steep, grassy hillside we change angle to feature...
hot rod		an "adolescent" Autobot. He is in robot mode, sitting with his fishing rod held between two fingers, looking bored with it all.
daniel		 Hurry or we'll miss it!
hot rod		lopes up hill after Daniel.
daniel		Hey!   Let me out.
hot rod		Why settle for a peek when you can see everything from Lookout Mountain?
daniel		But we're not supposed to go beyond City limits!
hot rod		Chromo-Chicken!
kup		disgustedly watches Hot Rod drive up the mountain.
hot rod		This is it! Now take a squint through those babies.
daniel		Hot Rod, look! There's a hole in the shuttle!
hot rod		What!?
hot rod		This is for Ironhide.    As so's this!
starscream		He ducks away from the door.
the constructicons		Firing out of the hole.
megatron		He's furious.
starscream		It was your stupid strategy!
kup		What's that darn fool doing? Hound looks up and points.
11.		CONTINUED:
hound		Decepticons!
hot rod		Hang on!
hot rod		 WHoooooooaaah
blitzwing		 Come on down, Autobrat!
hot rod		Yiiiiiiiiii!
12.		CONTINUED:
on blitzwing		about to fire, when...
shrapnel		who is flying nearby.
blitzwing		transforms to robot mode and turns as... Kup comes flying, feet first, into Blitzwing knocking him off the mountain ledge.
hot rod		Not bad for an old timer!
kup		 Old timer?! That's something you'll never be if you don't get back to the city. You know what we used to do with cocky, insubordinate upstarts?
hot rod		 Save it.
starscream		transforming into jet mode, fires on them with laser bursts which...
13.		CONTINUED:
perceptor		transforms to humanoid and runs toward...... ... Three new Autobots, ARCEE, a lovely female Autobot of about Hot Rod's age, SPRINGER, a very muscular and bantering "Indiana Jones" type Autobot and ULTRA MAGNUS, the large and soldierly City Commander.
perceptor		Ultra Magnus.....a cursory evaluation of Decepticon capability indicates a distinct tactical deficit!
ultra magnus		In other words, Perceptor...
springer		 We're outnumbered!
ultra magnus		Springer, Arcee, transform Autobot City!
starscream		TRANSFORMS and hovers in robot mode, firing all around them as they...
starscream		There's no escape...Uuuuh! Just then, the floor of the courtyard STARTS TRANSFORMING - - the center line of the floor snaps shut like the halves of a gigantic steel shelled clam, trapping Starscream's foot.
starscream		Agggggggh!     My foot!
on megatron		as he FLIES OVER SCENE, BLASTING this way and that, shouting
megatron		Breach their defenses!
on insecticons		who are trailing Megatron, attack the fast CLOSING CITY, trying to GNAW AND DEVOUR their way through the PORTS and BRIDGES leading inside.
kickback		 Delicious, eh Shrapnel?
shrapnel		 A little heavy on the electrons. Electrons.
another angle		Hot Rod speeds up, passes Kup and... ... rides up and over Kickback's back, using it like a stunt driver's ramp to...
on shrapnel		As Shrapnel looks up and reacts... ...Kup hurtles up and over Kickback's back just as Kickback is starting to rise to see what knocked him face down onto the bridge in the first place. ... Kup goes SAILING OT OVER OPEN SPACE between Kickback's back and the doorway into the city- -clobbering Shrapnel, who is in the way and landing on the city doorstep, driving in as...
the doorway		transforms, shutting down with metal shields with a "clank" sound as Kickback and Shrapnel both leap at is to... ... bite Kup and Hot Rod and instead BREAK THEIR TEETH on steel door, falling face down with a grunt as LAST BITS OF CITY
ultra magnus		 You can explain your security violation later, Hot Rod! Now, man your battle station.
hot rod		I don't have to explain my so called violation to you or anyone...
kup		 He said "later!"
blaster		Lookout and shout! Yow! Explosions rock the Crows Nest. Blaster swivels around and tilts to see...
blaster		activates turret type LASER CANNON
blaster		Gonna lay some slugs on those overweight bugs! 
cannon swivels		LASER BLAST cooks out and we FOLLOW IT OFF SCREEN to...
the insecticons		as a Laser BLAST hurls Bombshell up and out of sight and causes Shrapnel and Kickback to get sucked into the vacuum.
blaster		Perceptor joins him.
blaster		 Hey, Perceptor, what's shakin' other than this fortress?
perceptor		Blaster, Ultra Magnus sends orders to contact Optimus Prime for reinforcements.
blaster		Alright! Cover your receptors, Perceptor! Blaster transforms to ghetto blaster mode and broadcasts VISIBLE waves...
the waves		rise and expand into space
blaster		Optimus Prime... Do you read me? The Decepticons are blitzing Autobot City. We're really takin' a pounding. Don't know how much longer we can hold out.
megatron		Soundwave!     Jam that transmission.
on soundwave		SOUNDWAVE moves forward and starts heaving CASSETTES upwards toward Blaster's Crows Nest position.
soundwave		Rumble! Frenzy! Ravage! Ratbat! Eject! Operation: interference.
on cassettes		as they transform and attack the crows nest.
on rumble		as he starts PILE DRIVER MOTION on Crows Nest windows
rumble		First we crack the shell.    Then we crack the nuts inside.
blaster		We got Cassette Critters knockin' on the window!
on rumble		as he CRACKS THROUGH GLASS and he and others swarm in and attack Perceptor who tries to beat them away
perceptor		Run, Blaster! Save yourself!
blaster		No way. Two can play!
on blaster		as he spews out CASSETTES which TRANSFORM into CUBBIE, a lion, STRIPES, a tiger, STINGER, a scorpion and BOLTS, a small, tough robot.
blaster		Sic 'em!
on rumble		as Cubbie takes him down by the foot, turning him over and over
on stripes		as he SNAPS at Ratbat who screams and darts, trying to escape as we move to
perceptor		You think you got through to Prime?
blaster		Let's hope so! Cause if I didn't we're gonna look like burnt out toaster ovens!
megatron		Constructicons merge for the kill!
springer		Great! Megatron's making his big push and we can't even push...  ...back!
kup		Keep at it, Springer, lad! Help's at hand!  Together now!
daniel		also leans against it, his small legs churning.
the catapult		starts moving easily now.
arcee		 I was afraid you'd be trapped outside the city walls.
hot rod		 Hey, I wasn't worried for a micro-second, Arcee!
arcee		 Then you probably didn't understand the situation. Before Hot Rod can react, Kup steps back from repositioned Catapult
kup		That did it!
daniel		Kup, Hot Rod! Look! 
on devastator		as he rises up and starts FIRING, HAMMERING, TEARING AWAY at metal shields which create armored walls of the transformed City.
springer		I got better things to do today than die. 
devastator		and explode harmlessly as Devastator continues to grunt and tear off armored layers of the city. He grabs Hot Rod and Kup and starts to crush them.
arcee		Hot Rod!
optimus prime		Dinobots.    Destroy Devastator!
grimlock		Uhhhh! Me Grimlock love challenge! Dinobots, transform!
dinobots		transform into humanoid mode, and, with Grimlock at the front... ...fly out of the shuttle in wedge formation, blasting in unison.
follow dinobots		In as they transform again and, in dino mode, swoop over to Devastator...
devastator		Roars towards the Dinobots.
their battle		shakes the Earth...
prime		Megatron must be stopped. 
megatron		as he commands his troops.
megatron		Their defenses are broken.    Let the slaughter begin.
megatron		Prime!?
prime		smashing through a wall of lesser Decepticons.
prime		One shall stand, one shall fall.
megatron		Why throw away your life so recklessly?
optimus prime		That's a question you should ask yourself.
megatron		hurls himself at Optimus Prime... .... both tumble into the walls of the City... ...denting the walls and causing the electronic panels inside to short circuit, surrounding them with a fiery nimbus of crackling electrical energy.
hot rod		We've got to save Prime! Punching...
kup		That's his fight, lad!   Stay away. Shooting..
megatron		grabs a jagged, spearlike piece of steel and hurls it at
prime		The steel "spear" pierces his side and sticks in him as... ... he charges Megatron, ...dodging shots from Megatron's gun to... ...deliver a huge UPPERCUT which... ...lifts Megatron into the air so high that... ... 
25.		CONTINUED: PRIME  his head butts sharply against overhanging concrete balcony, mashing him down...
megatron		lands and stealthily slips a laser dagger from his boot, turning and slashing at...
prime		as he comes for him, tearing... ...a gash across Prime's midsection, which spews smoke and sparks and...
megatron		 Farewell, Prime!
optimus prime		as he lifts chunks of broken concrete and catches the laser dagger on it, tossing it aside as he lunges at-
megatron		who claws his fingers and digs them into Prime's eyes
megatron		I'll rip out your optics! Optimus grabs Megatron's clawed hand in one of his hands, twists it in see-sawing test of strength which... Optimus wins in a judo toss which sends Megatron - - skidding face first through steel rubble, in a shower of sparks until he crashes into the side of the city.
hot rod		That's showing him, Optimus!
kup		knocks two Decepticons on their tails and turns.
kup		Finish him off, Prime!   Do it now!
on megatron		as he spots a gun on the ground ahead of him
megatron		No more, Optimus Prime!    Grant me mercy, I beg of you!
optimus prime		You who are without mercy now plead for it. I thought you were made of sterner stuff, Megatron!
prime		Out of the way, Hot Rod.
on megatron		firing blaster again and again
megatron		Fall!   Fall!
megatron		I would have waited an eternity for this. Crawl, slave! On your knees!
optimus prime		 Never!
hot rod		Optimus!    Forgive me!
megatron		 Enshrine me!
starscream		 Take this scrap to Cybertron! Astrotrain, transform and get us out of here!
arcee		The Decepticons are retreating.
kup		Prime did it. He turned the tide! He shoots  into...
the autobots		fire after them, closing ranks on the shuttle, and pouring shots into the melee.
starscream		Astrotrain, take off.
optimus prime		as he lies on an improvised bier-like platform, a profusion of electricity discharging tubes and "plasma" bottle devices hooked up to his arms and into his gaping middle wound.
scanners		emit bleeps and show oscilloscopic patterns but sounds and wave patterns are steadily growing weaker and weaker.
perceptor		is bent over Prime, in microscope mode, examining him... He then transforms and straightens up, his voice strained and cracking with emotion.
perceptor		I fear the wounds are...  INTERCUT TO HOT ROD, KUP, ARCEE, DANIEL AND OTHER AUTOBOTS as they react.
optimus prime		 Autobots...do not grieve... Soon, I shall be one with the matrix.
optimus prime		 Ultra Magnus! It is to you, old friend, I shall pass the matrix as it was passed to me ....
magnus		Prime, I'm just a soldier.   I'm not worthy.
optimus prime		 Nor was I, but one day, an Autobot shall rise from our ranks and use the powers of the Matrix to light our darkest hour.
optimus prime		 Until that day...
astrotrain		Jettison some weight, or I'll never make it to Cybertron.
starscream		Fellow Decepticons, Astrotrain has requested that we lighten our burden!
bonecrusher		In that case, I say it's survival of the fittest.
starscream		So I hear a second on that?
healthy decepticons		Aye!
starscream		And against?
starscream		The ayes' have it!
starscream		 Oh, how it grieves me to do this.
megatron		Wait, I still function!
starscream		Wanna bet?
starscream		Well, as Megatron has, how shall we say - departed. I nominate myself as the new leader.
scrapper		The Constructicons form Devastator, the most powerful robot. We should rule.
soundwave		Constructicons inferior.   Soundwave superior.
bonecrusher		Who are you calling inferior.
hook		Nobody would follow an uncharismatic bore like you.
rumble		Hey, nobody calls Soundwave uncrazmatic.
frenzy		Yeah!     Let's kick tailgate.
the constructicons		try to form Devastator, but...
hook		Constructicons, unite!
blitzwing		I am a triple changer. I am worth any two of you. I should run things.
dirge		Death comes to anyone who crosses me. He attacks Blitzwing.
astrotrain		Stop squabbling or we're gonna crash.
unicron		Welcome, Megatron.
megatron		 Who said that?
unicron		I am Unicron.
megatron		Show yourself!
unicron		I have summoned you here for a purpose.
megatron		Nobody summons Megatron!
unicron		Then it pleases me to be the first.
megatron		State your business.
unicron		Bring me the Autobot Matrix. It is the one thing - the only thing that can stand in my way.
megatron		You have nothing to fear. I have already crushed Optimus Prime with my bare hands.
unicron		You exaggerate.
megatron		The point is, he is dead!   And the Matrix died with him.
unicron		No. It has been passed to their new leader. Get it for me.
megatron		Why should I? What's in it for me?
unicron		Your bargaining posture is highly dubious, but very well, I will provide you with a new body, and new troops to command.
megatron		And...
unicron		And nothing.
megatron		I belong to nobody.
unicron		Perhaps I misjudged you. Proceed on your way to oblivion. The Mist appears and starts to dissolve Megatron.
megatron		 No, no. I accept your terms.   I accept!
unicron		Excellent! Behold - Galvatron! X-ray images: wiring, circuitry, etc. flash on and off as a new and larger being starts to form, changing from dented Megatron to a huge, new creation: Galvatron.
galvatron		Long live Galvatron!
unicron		And these shall be your minions...
scourge		SCOURGE  is bearded, fanged and ferocious looking and as soon as he has been CREATED, he roars and stretches and an ARRAY OF SIMILAR CREATURES - smaller and all wearing dark and matching uniforms - are INSTANTLY CREATED FROM OTHERS behind him
unicron		Scourge, the tracker....and his huntsmen...the Sweeps....
unicron		Cyclonus, the warrior...and his armada.....
galvatron		To Cybertron!
unicron		 Bring me the Autobot matrix! DURING UNICRON'S COMMAND we CHANGE ANGLE TO SHOW
galvatron		I will rip open Autobot after Autobot until it is yours, Unicron.
other decepticons		in neat ranks but their grim expressions show their displeasure.
starscream		 Get on with the ceremony! Dirge and others react to EERIE SOUNDS and look up and off. Starscream looks where others are looking and reacts.
starscream		Who disrupts my coronation?
galvatron		Coronation? This is bad comedy!
starscream		Megatron, is that you?
galvatron		Here's a clue!
galvatron		He transforms back to robot mode and confronts other Decepticons boastfully.
galvatron		Will anyone else attempt to fill his shoes?
galvatron		Galvatron.
unicron		Bit by bit, we see new    sections of the planet being generated.    Then, the sinister mist we saw at    the beginning of the film starts pouring    out.
unicron		A strange, LOUD HUM fills the air and the ground heaves and SHAKES beneath their feet
jazz		Where'd that come from?!
cliffjumper		Who cares? I'm more worried about where it's going!
jazz		 Talk to me, Earth! We got a situation out here!
blaster		He reacts to muffled transmission from Jazz.
blaster		I'm pickin' up a faint signal! BLASTER TRANSFORMS to blaster mode and Jazz's VOICE is broadcast loud and clear causing Springer, Arcee, and Daniel to react
cliffjumper		And it's attack...
ultra magnus		Jazz!   Cliffjumper!
jazz		Got ...to....blast free....if we can..... They get in and start retro blasters, the flame of blasters whirling in wild winds as moon is engulfed.
another angle		Suddenly it is pulled deep into Unicron.
galvatron		How dare Unicron?!  Cybertron and all it's moons are mine!
scourge		But remember, WE belong to HIM!
galvatron		 I....will obey, Unicron! Decepticons, to Earth! The torture stops and Galvatron clutches his throat and tries to regain his composure as we...
spike		It's like a terrible nightmare, Ultra Magnus.
bumblebee		This thing - this juggernaut just ripped the first moon to shreds.
spike		And it's heading this way.
bumblebee		We'll try 'n slow it down...
spike		But you'd better get here fast because... Suddenly, static obscures the transmission.
daniel		Dad!
ultra magnus		Autobots, prepare to board the shuttles. This new menace is more dangerous than all the Decepticons put together. Somehow we must destroy it before it devours Cybertron.
daniel		But what about my dad? He's on the moon between that monster and Cybertron.
ultra magnus		Daniel, I'll do everything I can for Spike.
hot rod		And what are we going to do when we get there? If that thing crunches moons, it'll make short work of us.
ultra magnus		Maybe the Matrix can stop it.
hot rod		You're right! It can.
kup		What do you know about it lad?
hot rod		It's just a feeling.
kup		Look!
ultra magnus		To the shuttles!!!
galvatron		There is no escape. I, Galvatron will crush you just as the magnificent Megatron crushed Prime!
ultra magnus		And you'll die trying just like Megatron! Ultra Magnus fires Laser and hits Galvatron.
galvatron		aaaaaaaah!     Autobot cur!!
cyclonus		You want me to gut Ultra Magnus for you?
galvatron		There are plenty of Autobots for you. Ultra Magnus is mine!
arcee		Stay close to me, Daniel...
hot rod		 And you better stay close to me... Arcee pulls Hot Rod toward her before he gets hit by laser
arcee		No, you'd better stay close to me. Blurr is trying to get Grimlock into Shuttle with the rest of the Dinobots as Decepticon FIRE COMES IN ALL AROUND. Grimlock is like a "spooked horse" refusing to be shut in the barn.
blurr		 Nice Dino, good, Dino, sweet Dino! Won't you step into the nice spaceship for Blurr? Please, pretty please.
grimlock		 Me, Grimlock, not "nice Dino!" Me bash brains!
grimlock		He gives FIRE BREATHING BLAST AT JETS as they go by STRAFING THE
ultra magnus		as Kup, Hot Rod and Arcee MOVE INTO SCENE BEHIND HIM
ultra magnus		Kup, Hot Rod. Get the Dinobots out of here!
on scourge		as he TRANSFORMS to Humanoid mode and shouts orders, FIRING AT Blurr who BLURRS PAST and then at Arcee who also SHIPS BY
scourge		No survivors!
kup		This reminds me of the battle on Alpha 9, when the Petro-Rabbits were...
grimlock		Me, Grimlock, love Kup's war stories!
kup		You're living one now!  Engage the boosters for Cybertron's sake! Hot Rod nods and quickly passes his hand over bank of SWITCHES all of which GLOW AND PULSE with the action.
another angle		as DECEPTICON FIREBALL COMES UP and SPLATTERS AGAINST WINDOW, sending tongues of fire running across the glass behind Hot Rod's head
hot rod		You got 'em!
grimlock		 Tell Grimlock about Petro-Rabbits again.
kup		 I'll give you Petro-Rabbits. Contact! The Shuttle lurches and shakes
cyclonus		Vaporize them!
springer		 Looks like we're shipmates, squirt!
daniel		All right!
springer		But if you get space sick, you're gonna walk home.
ultra magnus		Hurry!
47.		CONTINUED:
springer		Jump.
on arcee		still going up the ramp while the shuttle slowly leaves the ground.
daniel		That was close!
springer		Believe it or not, this is the fun part.
ultra magnus		No time to preheat....Can this ship take it?
perceptor		With an accelerated ignition procedure the ceramic housings might create a magnetic flux.
ultra magnus		 What?
springer		 He says "go for it!"
hot rod		gives the thumbs up gesture.
another angle		INCLUDING Ultra Magnus' shuttle through side port as Springer gives thumbs up signal in return and Daniel waves
on springer		as he turns and reacts, looking straight up and ahead
springer		It ought to be smooth sailin' from here on in.
astrotrain		Fuse them!
kup		 Ultra Magnus...what next?
ultra magnus		Remember what we did off Beta Four!
kup		I remember it well.
galvatron's ships		which swerve to avoid them as....
galvatron's ship		emerges from the chaos.
cyclonus		The explosions jammed my sensors.  I have lost track of the Autobots!
galvatron		Damn it!! They did the same thing to me off Beta four!
shuttle		Possible song - optimistic adventure with the suggestion that all dreams might not happen.
kup		Yep, I remember the dust was so thick off Beta 4 had to use windshield wipers on your optic sensors....
grimlock		 Me, Grimlock, know all about wipers! Want to hear good part of story!
swoop		 Good part, Kup! Tell Swoop good part!
sludge		SLAG  Good part...tell
51.		CONTINUED:
kup		Okay, Okay. The dust was really thick and then this gigantic Ick Yak...
hot rod		Don't you think we have better things to do now than tell stories Kup?
kup		Like what?
hot rod		Like maybe figure out how we're gonna stay alive.
hot rod		 Time out, for Cybertron's sake!
auto combatant		 Time out, time out, time out! Suddenly, the shuttle rocks from impact and SPARKS and flames shoot out of large hole in wall
ultra magnus		Kup! Raise your force fields at once! They're armed with.....
hot rod		They're closing on us!
kup		Yep, like the shrikebats of Dromedon!
hot rod		Yeah, how'd you beat them?
kup		I'm trying to remember...there were an awful lot of casualties that day...
hot rod		Okay, so you were right.
kup		Don't run your programs until they're debugged.
hot rod		They're coming back.
kup		Let's just hope we've screwed up their trajectories.
hot rod		Whew!!!
54.		CONTINUED:
kup		Yep, I thought we'd had it that time for sure.
hot rod		Dive!
another angle		crushing the area between Hot Rod and Kup.
springer		Kup and Hot Rod just bought it!
ultra magnus		I can't deal with that now.
springer		Face it, Magnus, the Decepticons 're gonna dog us until they see us dead! Ultra Magnus nods solemnly
ultra magnus		 Then that's exactly what they're gonna see.
on galvatron		as he works controls which eject more Moleculon Missiles.
cyclonus		The Autobots have been terminated!
galvatron		Excellent. And soon we shall say the same of that infernal Unicron. Suddenly, Galvatron's body begins to twist, and he writhes in pain.
arcee		Did we have to detonate three- quarters of the ship?!
springer		Seeing how they would have detonated four quarters, I think it was a good choice. SUDDEN SHUDDER AND THE SHIP DROPS SHARPLY, all holding on to each other and to any protruding handhold
ultra magnus		Perceptor....can you still locate the Junk Planet?
perceptor		Gamma waves in this sector of space create marginal navigation probabilities, however..... 
ultra magnus		Holds his head in his hands as Springer grimaces
perceptor		Ahem.....yes I think I can.
hot rod		still cartwheeling down toward the planet below, trying to change the angle of his fall
hot rod		 Kup....Grimlock?   Slag!....Anybody? WE FOLLOW him through undersea world as he rounds a "corner" of the Reef Wall and reacts
hot rod		Kup!
the squid		angrily streaks toward Hot Rod.
hot rod		Fires at the Squid, but not stopping him.
another angle		Hot Rod's shot plinks off a couple of tentacles, but the squid keeps coming...
the squid		releases a laser print ink stream which boils out in the water in a series of dots and "x" shapes and retreats.
hot rod		Don't worry, I'm not coming after you.
hot rod		lowers his head and blows blast of air through head-piece. The air blast clears the water, revealing Kup's head and torso half buried in the "sand"
hot rod		Kup!   Say something!
kup		 Fix me!
hot rod		Sure, Kup....right away! Hot Rod rapidly PULLS KUP'S SCATTERED BODY PARTS TOGETHER.
hot rod		Well...what do you think? Kup feels his elbow joint, twists his neck side to side and gets creaks and squeaks and moves legs in odd, creaky way as he is trying himself out.
kup		 There's a piece missing.
hot rod		No way....  See, this wasn't yours...it's some kind of prehistoric ion cruncher....and this doohickey looks like a funky energon funnel... and this...
59.		CONTINUED:
kup		 But all things considered, you did an amazing job, lad! Amazing!
hot rod		 Really?
kup		 Yeah, you even got rid of a nasty burr on my rotator! Now, let's find the Dinos and get off this twisted planet!
on kup		as he transforms it's evident that a fender is misplaced and a wheel mounted improperly so it wobbles and he rides unevenly with much chugging and oil spewing
kup		Don't act hostile. I'll use the universal greeting.
hot rod		Universal Greeting.
kup		Watch.   I'll have them eating out of my hand.
hot rod		Or our faces.
kup		Bah-weep-Graaaaagnah wheep ni ni bong...
hot rod		 Bah-weep-Graaaaagnah wheep ni ni bong... The Sharkticons look interested.
kup		See, the Universal Greeting works every time.  Now, without making any sudden moves, give them an Energon goody. Kup reaches into his belt, presses a button and pulls out an Energon cube. Hot Rod, somewhat suspicious of the whole process does the came.
hot rod		This is getting expensive.
kup		Don't worry, they'll reciprocate. They each hand out three Energon goodies to the remaining six Sharkticons... The Sharkticons eat them happily. Then, they back off, eyeing the two Autobots with menace.
hot rod		I thought they were supposed to reciprocate.
kup		 Customs vary from place to place. Suddenly, the Sharkticons transform to their vicious mode and lunge at them.
the quintessons		slender, spindly framed robotic creatures with oversized five sided heads, each side bearing a different mechanistic face with a different expression on each - smiling, angry, grimacing, suspicious and the fifth face is not yet to be seen. As Hot Rod and Kup are led to certain death in the Quintesson dungeons, harsh, dissonant, metallic and terrifying music plays, underscoring the brutal evil they face,
hot rod		Every place reminds you of some place else.....
hot rod		A lot of good it's done us so far!
hot rod		I can't transform!
kup		They're restraining bolts, lad.
hot rod		 We got to get a new travel agent.... What is this place?
kranix		The world of the savage Sharkticons and their cruel masters the Quintessons. They hunt down those who try to escape the wrath of Unicron, and put them on trial.
kup		But what if they're innocent?
kranix		Guilty or innocent, the sentence is always the same - death!
hot rod		Unicron?!    Who's Unicron?
kranix		A planet six times the size of this one that absorbs everything in its path.
kup		So that's the monster's name.
hot rod		I wonder if there's any connection between it and Galvatron.
quintesson guard		Soon, you too shall receive your sentence.
lead quintesson		Jury, have you reached a verdict?
lead quintesson		 Guilty.....Or innocent. I repeat.
kranix		Spare me this mockery of justice.
lead quintesson		I repeat, guilty...or innocent.
jurors		Guilty!!
kup		Not the end I'd wish for, lad.
daniel		Where are we, Springer?
springer		The place where everything ends up after you throw it out.
ultra magnus		Brace for impact!
springer		 Remind me to give the Auto Pilot a raise... Daniel creeps out from under Arcee and shakes bits of broken metal and dust off his shoulders
daniel		Wow! That was better'n the Roller Coaster at Future World!
perceptor		 The composition of this planet seems to be a chaotic amalgam of discarded ferrous and non-ferrous articulations.
ultra magnus		 How's that?
springer		 He says the planet's made of junk.
springer		Yep, this dump is a dump......
ultra magnus		as he straps on TOOL BELT
ultra magnus		We might be able to salvage this thing.  Ultra Magnus starts for door followed by Blurr who takes up a saw and tool belt and Perceptor who rolls up Shuttle Plans as Daniel moves out to join them
66.		CONTINUED:
daniel		Can I help, too?
springer		It's rough out there, kid. Stay inside and play with crayons or something.
arcee		as she steps forward with a smile, a strange GRID LIKE "SUIT" in her hand
arcee		I think Daniel can make himself useful with....this! It used to be Spike's. 
daniel		Wow! Dad's exo-suit. He told me about it but I never saw it.
arcee		Here, try it on.
on daniel		as he gets inside the "suit" which fits over his body like a grid-work metal "cage."
springer		Just think about what you want to do before you do it!
daniel		brows knitted, thinking.
springer		Don't fight it Dan-O.
daniel		 It's kind of tricky....
arcee		For the first time out, you were great!
springer		Show time's over! We've got work to do! 
other junkions		Yeah, or your money back! Wreck-Gar shows large JUNK GUN with all sorts of razor sharp fins and rusty little rocket missiles mounted around the howitzer like barrel
quintesson		Greetings, noble strangers.
grimlock		Yes, me, Grimlock, noble! Me, Grimlock search for friends.
quintesson		And who might they be?
grimlock		Autobots.    Hot Rod and Kup.
quintesson		 Oh yes. A young one and an old one.
grimlock		Yes.   You know friends.   Where are they?
quintesson		They went down that path. He points to...
a path		It probably isn't lined with primroses, but it should be.
grimlock		GRIMLOCK You good friend to Grimlock.    I reward you, sometime.
69.		CONTINUED:
galvatron		Why do you torture me?!
unicron		You have failed.
galvatron		No, Unicron. Ultra Magnus is dead.
unicron		Then where is the matrix?
galvatron		Destroyed, with him.
unicron		The matrix can not be destroyed.  And Ultra Magnus lives on the planet of Junk. Stalk him. Cut him open! And bring the matrix to me.
grimlock		Me Grimlock, positive Hot Rod and Kup close! Get thump, thump, thump... 
slag		Me, Slag say you are full of beryllium balony. He is just about to fall in when...
grimlock		Me, Grimlock, say you full of cesium salami! Slag gets up...
slag		Beryllium balony!
grimlock		Argh!
grimlock		Me, Grimlock think trees here are cheap model.
slag		Like your head!  Grimlock jumps on Slag and wrestles him to the ground. Suddenly, a SQUEAKY, ODDLY CHILDISH VOICE speaks from o.s.
grimlock		 Who say that?
wheelie		Friends find. Look behind.   Many Face lie. You fool! You buy!
grimlock		 Me, Grimlock, "fool?"
wheelie		 Grimlock raises a claw to swipe Wheelie off Slag's head
grimlock		Me, Grimlock, no like you!
on wheelie		as he scowls and quickly loads FIRESTONE IN SLING and slings it onto Grimlock's nose where it EXPLODES making Grimlock yowl and pull back, feeling his reddened nose and speaking through his nose angrily
grimlock		 Doooooooow! Why boy hit by dose?
wheelie		 Grimlock and Slag react as we
quintesson judge		Before we deliver your verdict, would you like to beg for your lives?
kup		Remember when you put me together today?
hot rod		 Sure, that's all I got to think about.
kup		I know what part you forgot.
hot rod		I have nothing but contempt for this court.
73.		CONTINUED:
kup		That doohickey you lost was part of my shoulder socket. Watch this, lad... without it, I'm double jointed as Houdini.
hot rod		Wish you'd figured that out a little sooner.
kup		Better late than never!
hot rod		They've got more Sharkticons than we have photon charges!
kup		Let's hold a demolition derby! Then, he roars into a bunch of them, slamming a massive stack into the wall.
hot rod		Didn't even bend a fender.
kup		Yeah, but look. There are a lot more of those cam dinging, grill-crackin' things.
hot rod		We can't hold out forever, but we can give them one whopper of a repair bill.
grimlock		Lowers his teeth to devour a much smaller Sharkticon, the Sharkticon bares his teeth, realizes that he's a second stringer, and scampers away.
grimlock		Me Grimlock want to munch metal! Slag barrels into Sharkticons, making a quick shishkebob out of them, while...
the sharkticons		suddenly back off and begin transforming  to the dinobots.
hot rod		I never thought I'd be so happy to see those big bozos.
grimlock		Me Grimlock no bozo.   Me king!
quintesson judge		Sharkticons! Execute them.
grimlock		Me Grimlock say execute them.
the sharkticons		for a brief instant, don't seem to know what to do. Then, they charge the Quintessons.
the chase		The Quintessons start to flee, but it's clear that the Sharkticons, who climb over the stacked bodies of other Sharkticons, are going to catch them.
kup		I think the problems on this planet will be solved very shortly.
hot rod		But what about our problems.    We need a ship.
wheelie		WHEELIE You get a ship if I get a trip.
hot rod		Who are you.
slag		Him Wheelie, him friend.
hot rod		HOT ROD He'll be mine too, if he can find a Quintesson ship.
hot rod		That's a ship?
spike		If this doesn't do it, nothing will.
bumblebee		now with a new bumpersticker which is a Unicron with a red circle and slash through it, looks very fidgety.
bumblebee		Let's get out of here.
the spaceship		takes off.
on unicron		His mist surrounds the planet...
bumblebee		Five, four, three, two, one...
bumblebee		It isn't even dented.
spike		Let's get out of here!
on unicron		The great Maw opens and we hear a grand cosmic roar! Suddenly, the smoke and space junk from the explosion are sucked into his mouth.
78.		CONTINUED:
spike		We're being sucked into it!
perceptor		Be sure the fittings are securely welded!
blurr		 Absolutely, positively, definitely...
daniel		This exo-suit is fantastic!  Want me to do that?
blurr		Weld? You? Really? Well, why not? Give it a try, but think it through first! Daniel knits his brow, extends FINGER OF EXO- GLOVE which is part of exo-suit.
blurr		Practice, practice, practice!
ultra magnus		as he, too, hears and then looks up and sees the Decepticon force
ultra magnus		Decepticons!  We've got to draw them off and then double back to the ship!
springer		Cancel that last order.
daniel		What do I do?
blurr		Transform! You can do...  ...it!
on daniel		as he reacts, looks around, thinks, brows knitting, looking off, reacting
daniel		Transform....
on scavenger		as he starts reaching for Daniel
scavenger		Human germ!
on daniel		as his Exo-Suit SUDDENLY TRANSFORMS INTO auto mode and takes off and drives through...
galvatron		flies up to a ridge in advance of his forces, motioning to them to split off and follow...
sweep		He lets out a rayblast...
ultra magnus		Perceptor!
on perceptor		He transforms to humanoid mode.
perceptor		It appears that my lacerations were primarily superficial.
ultra magnus		Then move it...
ultra magnus		Stays behind, taking a few shots at...
sweeps		which streak over in deadly formations.
ultra magnus		He stands and shoots.
ultra magnus		Then use that time to escape! The Matrix was designed for an emergency like this. I'll try to unleash its power.
springer		But what if it doesn't work.
ultra magnus		Until all are one!
ultra magnus		Damn it!   Open it!
ultra magnus		 Prime, you said the Matrix would light our darkest hour.
galvatron		Sweeps, quarter him!
galvatron		Unicron, my "master," with this I shall make you my slave!
daniel		as he moves out and looks down at Ultra Magnus' remains
daniel		 Ultra Magnus!
blurr		Without the Matrix there is no hope.   No hope at all!
springer		Get gone!
a junkion		roars alongside Springer on his motorcycle and throws out laser barbed grappling hook, trying to hook Springer. Springer ducks first pass of hook.
on junkion		as he hurls GRAPPLING HOOK AGAIN
on springer		as he catches HOOK BY THE CHAIN AND YANKS IT
the junkion		goes flying off his motorcycle.,, He transforms into a motorcycle as The motorcycle transforms into a rider and hops on the new motorcycle and then...
on springer		He looks over, astonished.
springer		It's not hard to knock 'em down. It's getting them to stay down that's the trick.
on arcee		as she fires at a Junkion who is trying to swerve her off the road knocking him off the motorcycle... The Junkion looks down at his missing arm, digs around in the junk for a minute, comes up with another, and then transforms to a motorcycle.
another angle		as Junkion rides over to her, starts belting her with junk sword
arcee		They're indestructible!
86.		CONTINUED: 
on daniel		as he skids, stopping his Exo-Suit as he reacts to what's ahead
daniel		They're everywhere!
on springer		as he stops and Arcee, Daniel, Perceptor and Blurr stop around him. They close ranks and look out at the Junkions grimly
perceptor		Perhaps they're not as vicious as they look.
on springer		reacting to Wreck-Gar's noises and eyeball display
springer		 Positive thinking gets    on my nerves. Suddenly, all react to    sound and wind of passing space cruiser    their P.O.V- HOT ROD, KUP AND DINOBOTS    IN CRUISER as it shoots past and banks,    coming back for a closer look
daniel		as he looks up at passing Cruiser and waves
daniel		And Kup and the Dinobots!    We're saved!
perceptor		I wouldn't count on that! 
kup		Not since the Crocodillos of Strontero have I seen such a sight....
grimlock		Maybe they make me king, too!
kup		Don't hold your breath, your majesty.
junkions		Everything must go by midnight! With a SINGING ROAR of musical, tribal excitement, the Junkions sweep Springer and our friends along with them, following course of landing Cruiser to
88.		CONTINUED:
on doorway		as Hot Rod steps out with big smile and hand full of energon sticks followed by a very wary Kup, and the Dinobots with Wheelie riding Sludge's neck.
hot rod		 Guns aren't exactly friendly.
kup		 Neither are they in case you haven't noticed.
hot rod		 What was the Universal greeting again?
hot rod		HOT ROD  Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong?
89.		CONTINUED: HOT ROD  As Hot Rod says this...
everybody		Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong! Bah weep graaaagnah wheep ni ni bong....
on grimlock		as he reacts to Wreck-Gar kissing his leg
grimlock		Yuck! Me Grimlock, not a kisser!   Me, Grimlock, a king!
wheelie		claps his hands and gleefully makes noises as he hops about, dancing with Junkions until we CUT TO
hot rod		Where did you learn to talk like that?
the watchman		On it is a crazy Eddy-type commercial.
kup		looks around nervously.
kup		I talk some TV. And now, Hot Rod for the news. Don't touch that dial. Void where prohibited. JUNKIONS cheer wildly while the Dinobots react with uncertainty
ultra magnus		You're all alive...
hot rod		The matrix!
ultra magnus		It's gone...
kup		And with it, all hope.
hot rod		No...  The matrix will not fail us.
arcee		Didn't you hear Ultra Magnus. We don't have it anymore. Galvatron does.
hot rod		Then we've got to trust in ourselves, and no matter what they odds, destroy Unicron.
junkions		 Destroy Unicron... Kill the grand poobah... Flush cosmic troubles down the drain.
springer		Listen,   I don't want to rain on anybody's parade,   but how are we going to move the army to   Unicron. We don't have enough room on   that ship.
ultra magnus		You have ships here?
springer		What's he talking about?
springer		This is what I call traveling in style.
unicron		Aren't we getting pompous?
galvatron		I now possess that which you most fear. Unicron LAUGHS and the force of it rocks the surface of the planet, knocking Galvatron to his knees.
galvatron		You will do my bidding, or... Unicron roars with laughter.
galvatron		...taste my wrath.
unicron		You underestimate me Galvatron.
unicron		For a time, I considered sparing your measly little planet, but now you shall witness its dismemberment!
galvatron		No!!!
shockwave		Decepticons...we're under attack...Scramble - Then his voice is cut off as...
galvatron		GALVATRON Stop feeding him, you fools!
hot rod		I don't believe it.
daniel		Wow!
kup		 Nope, never seen anything like it.
hot rod		I knew there had to be a first time....  Battle stations!
unicron's chest		Galvatron, the matrix hanging around his neck. Transforms to Cannon and fires up at... ... A bright panel on Unicron's chest...
other junkions		Or your money back!
closer		... tears it in half.
junkions		Free bonus surprise!
the cruiser		Is suddenly struck by a ray from Unicron's eye, and half of it is knocked off.
daniel		Where's Hot Rod?
springer		Sees something in the distance.
springer		I don't know, but I hope they didn't get him.
kup		Debugoids!
arcee		Quick!   This way.
hot rod		The Autobot Matrix!
galvatron		It will do you no good, Autobot.   It cannot be opened.
hot rod		Not by a Decepticon.
galvatron		It is strange that we should find ourselves as allies...
on galvatron		Suddenly, his body is violently twisted, and his arms are almost broken off.
galvatron		Uhhhh...
unicron		Destroy him, or feel yourself torn from limb to limb.
galvatron		Of course, my master!
on galvatron		He peers into the gloom.
on galvatron		Weapon drawn.
galvatron		Puny Autobot, you lack even Prime's courage. There is no response.
assorted shots		Unicron now stands atop Cybertron, fighting the various ships that swarm around him like bees. ... Rays streak from his one good eye. ... 
101.		CONTINUED: ASSORTED SHOTS  His hands smash fighters... ... Fire shoots from his mouth.
the dinobots		Now reaching Unicron's butt, start kicking.
grimlock		Me Grimlock kick Butt.
grimlock		Me, Grimlock, need new strategy.
daniel		He looks o.s. towards the others.
daniel		Help...
arcee		Daniel!
daniel		I'm okay.    They don't even see me.
kup		They must not programmed to catch flesh creatures.
springer		Us, on the other hand...
arcee		Daniel... Try to find help! Arcee fires...
unicron's stomach		This is the central processing area for Unicron's "food" and "energy." A long conveyer belt drops junk into a clear, bubbling vat, where it is separated into raw material and energy. The energy, which comes out in raw form, goes into a machine and is crunched into energon cubes, while the solid material, is separated into it's component metals and plastics, formed into ingots and sent elsewhere in an assembly line fashion.
daniel		watches this with awe until he sees...
on daniel		He dashes to the shores of the glowing lake...
daniel		Cliffjumper! Jazz!
daniel		Bumblebee!     Dad!
spike		Shut off the control, Daniel. Daniel looks around.
a control		..     which controls the whole thing.
on daniel		He runs up a catwalk towards it....
daniel		What do I do? It doesn't have any buttons or anything.
spike		Shoot it, Son.
daniel		But I don't have a gun.
spike		Use your exo-suit.
cliffjumper		Hurry!
daniel		Starts frying the command console!
daniel		I can't stop it!
daniel		turns around and sees this.
daniel		Dad!
spike		Son.
spike		You did it!
galvatron		Come out, Autobot. We all must die sometime.
galvatron		stumbles backward.
106.		CONTINUED:
galvatron		No, I will crush you with bare hands. Hot Rod transforms back to car and tries to race away... ... Galvatron jumps after him and catches him... ... Hot Rod, nearly pinned by Galvatron transforms to humanoid mode.
galvatron		First Prime, then Ultra Magnus and now you. It is a pity Autobots die so easily or I might have a sense of satisfaction now. Hot Rod desperately gasps and pulls at Galvatron's hands...
hot rod		Gasps.
galvatron		Die!
another angle		On Hot Rod, his hands, nearly dead, spring to life for a moment and grasp the Matrix which hangs from Galvatron's chest.
another angle		A miraculous transformation takes place. ... Hot Rod begins to grow at an alarming rate. ... Age shows on his face. ... He is stronger and wiser.
optimus prime		Arise, Rodimus Prime.
hot rod		Optimus!
galvatron		Nooooooo!
hot rod		This is the end of the road, Galvatron. With that, he picks up the Decepticon and throws him through...
springer		I'm almost out of energy. Suddenly, he looks up and sees one of the creatures explode above
springer		That's what I call the nick of time.
jazz		Let's burn rubber!
kup		I knew you had potential, lad!
rodimus prime		Autobots, transform and roll out. Rodimus Prime transforms into truck mode as the other Autobots also transform. Daniel and Spike jump into him. Then, in a continuous line, he shoots off, the other Autobots racing behind him.
rodimus prime		Let this mark the end of the Cybertronian wars as we move forward to a new age of peace and happiness....
all		Until all are one!
****Dialogues from script :Tremors.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Tristan_and_Isolde.txt****

aragon		A year younger than I was for my first.
tristan		When can I have a stag?
aragon		a stag?
tristan		Oh come on!
tristan		Why would they join up against the Irish?
aragon		Because someone has to stand up to them.
tristan		You?
aragon		Me, Marke, all the tribes. We cant resist alone.
tristan		I could.
aragon		Oh my little warrior. We have to be careful.
aragon		Come home without something for your Lady there will be hell to pay.
tristan		Can I?
man		The Angles have arrives my Lord, as well as the Carrods, our fellow Jutes and the Saxons.
aragon		Good. With Marke, all will be here.
man		Yeah. It is a great day.
aragon		Let us hope so.
tristan		Thanks.  [The boy starts to make a bracelet out of the herbs. Going up to Lady Marke he hands her the finished wreath]
lady marke		We heard the news...
tristan		Mother, I made this for you
aragon		Friends, look at us.
aragon		The tribes of Britain. Divided. Weak. Just as the Irish like us. But if we were one land united, we would out number them two to one. We could defeat them once and for all. That is why we are here today, to sign this treaty of unification.
lord		But who would be King?
aragon		The strongest among us: Lord Marke.
aragon		Look if you are happy sending all of your gold to Ireland, living as slaves then by all means do nothing.
baron		If we were happy doing that then we would never have risked coming here.
marke		Friends. My wife is with child, my heart tells me it is a boy. I want him to grow old in a land where all of us, all the tribes: Pict, Celt, Angle, Jute, Saxon are at peace. This island has not known unity since the Romans left. That is why I sign this treaty.
wictred		And why should we follow you?
marke		Perhaps, Wictred, because your last attempt to form an alliance without the knowledge of half the Barons in this room has failed.
man		My Lord! The Irish are here!
aragon		Take all your men. Guard the women!
marke		But you...
aragon		Go!!!
lady marke		Tristan! Hurry! Come this way.
baron		How did they know?
lady marke		Tristan!  [Aragon manages to hold his son back and puts him in a hold under the floorboards. Aragon is then killed by Morholt. There is more destruction and fire breaks out. Tristan reaches up to touch the floorboards above and finds his fathers seeping blood on his hands. Tristan comes out of the hole and surveys the destruction. His father and Lady Marke are dead. Suddenly he is attacked by an Irishman but Marke jumps in to save him, losing his hand in the process]
bragnae		Shes with the Gods now Isolde, youll see her again someday.
isolde		Will I?
henchman		Morholt returns.
king donnchadh		What news of the treaty?
king donnchadh		Good Morholt, good
bragnae		Your mother loved you so much Isolde
isolde		Why did she die Bragnae? Why?
bragnae		It was an ill fever that took her. Fever.
isolde		No. It was her heart.
marke		Your husband?
marke		Oh sister I am so sorry.
marke		A whole generation of men.
edyth		Whos this?
marke		Tristan. Son of Aragon. Were his family now.
edyth		I have a son about your age. Melot! Melot!  Melot, this is Tristan.
henchman		What shall we do, my Lord?
marke		Rebuild.
marke		Dont hold back  [Marke loses the fight easily. A boy starts yelling to the other boys]
boy		Tristan wont fight me! Look hes scared!
marke		Still won't fight?
general		Tristan has the heart of a lion.He just needs some time.
melot		Why did you take off your helmet? You going to cry? My father died too, but you dont see me crying!
edyth		Melot!
melot		Run! Find another trapdoor to hide under. Coward!
henchman		Tristan!
sammy		Tristan! Tristan! Weve found something! Come on, this way.
melot		You will love it.
simon		I found a trapdoor!
melot		You found a trapdoor? Alright Simon, will you tell us all how you found it?! Look at that!
tristan		Where does this lead?
melot		Youll see. I like that vase, I think I'll have that. I always knew the Castle was built on Roman foundations but we didnt think anything was left!
tristan		Must be a burial crypt or something.
melot		Here we are: the bottom of the keep.
tristan		Who else knows about this?
sammy		Nobody.
tristan		Good.
bodkin		The savages have rebuilt the castle at Cornwall, only now its made of stone.
king donnchadh		Of Cornwalls next tribute I want slaves. Young ones. Their future. If Marke resists have Morholt crush him.
morholt		My King.
king donnchadh		Morholt.
morholt		I have led your armies to victory far and near. Iv made you rich and powerful.
king donnchadh		Yes you have. You have been most loyal.
morholt		When I return from Cornwall, I was hoping...
king donnchadh		What would please you?
morholt		A wife.
bragnae		Its dark in an hour.
isolde		What do you think is really out there?
bragnae		Britannia. The old Roman lands. Full of evil and grief.
isolde		I want to see it. Do you know what the future looks like Bragnae?
bragnae		I see the life you were meant for. Your father will speak with you.
isolde		Am I just a chattel to be traded at your pleasure? Do I have no say in my own life?
king donnchadh		You have a duty to your King.
isolde		You are my father.
king donnchadh		Then obey me, daughter.
morholt		Your father has given you the news?
morholt		And you welcome it?
isolde		I accept it.
morholt		You know, we are more alike than you might guess.
isolde		How so?
morholt		I too dabble in elixirs.  Poison from the livers of a puffer fish. Just a taste paralyses all the senses. So if the blade doesnt kill...
isolde		Rendered safe by thistle and bark.
morholt		And you know the antidote for this?
isolde		Yohimbine.
morholt		Makes a hard man even harder.  The only cure... wild abandon. Till out wedding day. Im to Cornwall, to deal with rabbles.
bodkin		Release them.  [The Irish men spread out and start collecting Cornish men and women as hostages]
cornish man		Leave her!
bodkin		Take him there. Get a rope. Any man foolish enough to interfere in any way shall suffer the same fate.
girl		No! No! Please No!
bodkin		If there are any more attacks we shall put our guests to death and raise this entire land. Take the horses.
marke		When would you strike?
tristan		At once. Throw everything we have at them.
marke		They are hoping you'll do that. On horse they outnumber us two to one. You would lead the men straight to their deaths.
tristan		So we do nothing?!
marke		Donnchadh would like that even more. Me to lose face in front of the other tribes. No, we must act. We must be decisive but we cannot act alone.
marke		So. Have the good men of York come to fight with us? Hm? The Saxons of Wessex?
wictred		My men dont want to follow a Pict into battle. Let alone one leading a pack of Angles and Celts.
marke		Then why are you here?
wictred		I thought Tristan should let me command his men.
tristan		I make it my habit to follow no one.
wictred		Except Marke.
tristan		Marke delivered me from that place when I was a boy. You ran. So you can understand that when I think of Kings I think of him. When I think of cowards...
marke		They are one day from their boats on the old Roman road. Now who will ride out with Tristan to fight them?
lord		What is your plan, Tristan?
tristan		We will need our two fastest runners.
irish man		Go around!  [They continue to pursue the runners on foot. Suddenly Tristan and his men spring up from hidden holes under the loam and shoot the Irish with their bows. The Irish are attacked from all sides and defeated. Back at the main part of the Irish convoy, Morholt cleans his blade]
bodkin		Morholt, theyre back!  [Cloaked figures ride in while the camp cheers. Suddenly they attack and more British spring from the ground. A battle ensues. Morholt begins to kill the hostages, but Tristan springs to stop him. Sammy is stabbed. Tristan is stabbed by Morholts poisoned blade but manages to kill Morholt. Melot and Tristan run to Sammys side]
morholt		Kill the slaves!
tristan		Simon!
sammy		I dont want to die.
man		Tristan!
tristan		I cant feel my legs or my hands.
man		Poison.
tristan		Build a second boat.
man		Tristan!
melot		He shall have a King's service.
melot		Farewell, Tristan of Aragon. Death of the Irish.
melot		When the Irish came to Cornwall and my father surrendered. You spared a dozen out of a hundred. I am even less kind. The leader and 3 shall take this message home. As for the rest...
melot		Victory.
marke		Tristan?
melot		Simon too.
marke		Did I love him like a son or did I misuse him for my own purposes?
edyth		He knew. He knew.
bragnae		Where are we going?
isolde		Away.
bragnae		You're afflicted child. Speak to me! Your father will find us and have my head. You are my charge. Please!
isolde		I am no ones charge!
bragnae		You are. And you will be Morholts Lady!
isolde		And live a loveless life like my mam?
bragnae		Whats that?
isolde		Where?
bragnae		Isolde. Wait! Dont!  Isolde. Dont! Isolde!
isolde		Its a man.
bragnae		Dead?
isolde		Alive! Bragnae help me!
bragnae		Isolde?
isolde		Help me!
isolde		Start a fire! Quickly!
isolde		His heart falters.
bragnae		What are you doing?
isolde		He needs heat. Now! Get your clothes off! Quickly!
isolde		Hurry! Quickly! Smell that? Smell the poison? When he warms we will need thistle and bark.
bragnae		Ive not been naked with a man for 15 years!
isolde		Hello.  You've been sleeping a long time. You're in Ireland. Did you know that? Shh... It's alright. You're safe here. No one knows. Don't be scared. Just sleep... sleep.
bragnae		Nooo Nooo Noo!
isolde		Its alright, you dont need that! I forgot to tell him about you...
bragnae		Ill wait outside with the other beasts.
tristan		You said no one else knew.
isolde		Sorry... Shes... My maid. Sworn to silence. Um... lie down please. Please?
isolde		Its good you are remembering things. This might sting. Do you remember anything else? The boat I found you in? How you got this? Too many questions. Here keep it dry. Here I found bread, you have water and fire. The ocean is outside if you wish a bath. You wont know where you are going so please dont try to leave. Just trust me.
tristan		Why are you doing this?
isolde		Ill be back
bragnae		This is a dangerous game you are playing. Hes English, Isolde.
isolde		Then weve got him prisoner.
bragnae		Under no circumstances tell him your name, you hear me? Not if you wish him to escape this place. Do you hear me?
king donnchadh		Youve been away.
isolde		I had noticed. Yes I have a bit.
king donnchadh		Where?
isolde		Bragnae and I were spying the convent of Brittes ].
king donnchadh		Seeking sanctuary?
isolde		Some women need it.
king donnchadh		Youll find no refuge in a new religion. Your place is here, with Morholt.
isolde		Any word of my betrothed?
king donnchadh		Overdue. But comforted no doubt that you yearn for him.
tristan		What's your name?
isolde		Oh, I think it's better if we don't bother with names.
tristan		How can I thank you if I don't have your name?
isolde		You just did. If you insist... my name is Bragnae. I'm a lady in waiting at the court. My parents are dead. My mother, she is the source of the kindness you find so puzzling. My father would've left you where you fell.
tristan		Tristan of Aragon.
isolde		Well Tristan of Aragon, I'd guess about you too, but I think I've already seen everything.
bragnae		Sir! I hope you appreciate the risks we are taking, and will honour us by leaving as soon as you are able.
tristan		She likes me. Shes right though, you do risk.
isolde		There. What of your parents?
tristan		They also died when I was a child.
isolde		Of what?
tristan		A different type of Irish kindness.
isolde		Sorry.  [Bragnae returns and interrupts their moment of tenderness]
isolde		Tomorrow then?
tristan		Tomorrow.
isolde		There she who bore you brought you forth.
tristan		Ridiculous.
isolde		I happen to believe what that says. Dont you think there is more to life?
tristan		Than what?
isolde		Something more than duty and death! Why are we capable of feelings if not to have them? Why long for things if they are not meant to be ours? Well dont listen to me. Youre so sure of things. Youre certainty, its like armour. I wish I had that.
tristan		Why would you need it?
isolde		The joy of being a lady? Wanting something I cant have. A life of my own.
bragnae		Time for sleep now.
isolde		Ill follow you later.
bragnae		You need to rest. In case your betrothed should want to see you.
tristan		Youre promised?
isolde		Yes.
tristan		Whats he like?
isolde		Dark. Tall. Nearly twice your size. An absolute gentleman.
tristan		I thought... earlier when you spoke of wanting something you cant have.
isolde		I didnt know what I was talking about.
isolde		Outside, just past that bluff there is a boat. Thats how you should go when you leave. You should go soon.
tristan		How do you feel?
isolde		I dont know
isolde		Tristan! Theyve found your boat. At this very moment the King himself is scouring the coast. He will find you. He finds everyone. The tide is coming lets go!
tristan		Come with me. Come with me!
isolde		I cant
tristan		Why not? Please!
isolde		Tristan, weve both known this cant be. Weve known this from the start. That doesnt mean it isnt true. It is. It just cannot be. I want to know that you are alive somewhere thinking of me from time to time. I want to know that there is more to this life and I cant know that if they kill you. Please?
isolde		Go!
king donnchadh		A Cornish warrior may be ashore. Beware. We seek him as I speak. Hopefully it is just his rotted corpse we'll find, for he has slain your betrothed. Morholt is dead. Fallen in battle. Isolde? Bragnae, comfort her.
bodkin		Shes stunned.
king donnchadh		As am I by her grief.
bodkin		We should assulat the British straight away. Crush them with maximum force.
king donnchadh		Maximum force. Like that of Markes tribe with the maximum force you speak of? I will not confront them again until our numbers are refreshed. Until then, well have cunning divide them.
bodkin		Of what nature?
king donnchadh		A prize, perhaps.
melot		Whats this about a tournament?
marke		Donnchadh. He has offered his daughter and the lands of Lyonesse as dowry to whichever English tribe wins. It is a clever way of setting us against each other.
melot		Well, the other barons will see through that.
wictred		As baron of Wessex it is my duty to fight in this tournament for my people.
marke		For yourself you mean.
melot		And what of the support you promised Tristan?
wictred		Tristan is dead. My people have suffered enough. They see the wealth of Lyonesse as more real than any alliance. My mind is set.
baron		And ours as well.
marke		So be it.
melot		You're weary, let me rally your friends. Ill lead them against D...
marke		Ah, Melot, Melot, Melot. You are my blood and you are a noble presence but......
guard		Lord Marke! Hes back! Its Tristan!
man		It cannot be!
edyth		Tristan!
melot		I saw you dead.
tristan		I am delivered.
marke		How? How?
marke		A toast! Tristan! Back from the dead.
man		Tristan. The Irish King offers his daughter in tournament to divide the tribes. For the power and the wealth half the tribes have sent champions to fight at the...  Tristan!
man		God knows what happened to him.
isolde		"My face in thine eyes, thine in mine appears,
marke		What?
tristan		It is the only way to keep the alliance alive.
marke		I fail to see how fighting with our partners keeps us allies.
tristan		Well they are all going to the tournament anyway. By announcing you will share the dowry with every Baron that remains loyal and in turn offering to support whomever prevails, the others would be compelled to follow you when you win.
marke		If we win. If we lose we could end up following Wictred. Id need an infallible champion!
tristan		Me.
marke		You are not yet healed.
tristan		Then this trip will be my tonic. I will be ready. I know I will.
marke		What is the source of this fervour?
tristan		Let me go and win you a wife. She can make peace without spilling one drop of blood, and maybe heal a wound from which you still lack.
bodkin		Truce. You have safe passage.
tristan		How do I look?
henchman		How do you look?
melot		Where is this Princess? Whats her name? Isolde? I want to see what she looks like.
bragnae		There. Almost done.
isolde		No, not quite. If I am to be a present I should be fully wrapped.
king donnchadh		See how the bees come to the honey.
tristan		Tristan of Aragon.
king donnchadh		So he lives.
bodkin		For the moment.
wictred		Wictred of Glastonbury.
wictred		I fight with no champion in my stead. Know that.
bodkin		Why Wictred?
king donnchadh		Because the Barons will never unite behind him.
melot		Do you think shes got the pox?
herald		Since the dawn of time...
herald		... Begin!
wictreds opponent		Make it for real!
wictred		What?
wictreds opponent		I yield!
man		You were great!
king donnchadh		Allow it!
melot		It was too easy for you Tristan. Not much for a third draw.
wictred		Mace.
melot		One more fight Tristan. Take deep breaths.
herald		Wictred: Lord of Saxonberg. Tristan: Champion of Cornwall. Warriors: Begin!
tristan		Yield!
king donnchadh		An impressive victory. Of course the man who defeats Morholt might be expected to triumph here.
tristan		On behalf of Cornwall, I offer your daughter a place on our throne. The throne of England, united behind one leader.
king donnchadh		Isolde! Perhaps it is just that he who took a husband provides one.
isolde		Im yours.
king donnchadh		No. Tristan of Aragon has won you on behalf of Lord Marke of Cornwall.
melot		Lets go.
king donnchadh		Let them take her across the sea. After the wedding I'll disavow Isolde, the alliance will crumble.
henchman		Tristan. Princess wants to speak to you.
isolde		You risked your life to give me to another man.
tristan		You said your name was Bragnae. Why did you do that?
isolde		Oh what have I done? Stop this thing. Say something.
tristan		I can't. I won you in my King's name.
isolde		But I am yours. You touched me and I yielded...
tristan		It doesn't matter.
isolde		It is the only thing that matters Tristan. Leave with me, I will go anywhere.
tristan		Your marriage will end a hundred years of bloodshed.
isolde		My marriage to another man!
tristan		Isolde. You will live with this. We must.
isolde		Don't do this to me.
melot		Tristan, weve made shore.
marke		What if shes a hag? Or maybe she wont have me!
edyth		She will brother. Youre the prize.
isolde		My Lord.
marke		Isolde? Welcome.
isolde		If things were different. If we lived in a place without duty... would you be with me?
tristan		That place does not exist.
isolde		I'll pretend it's you.
marke		Youre trembling. You are far from home and I am a stranger still. But you mustnt fear me. My wish is to make you happy, as a wife.. as a women and hopefully one day, the fact that I am not whole will not offend you.
marke		Thats pretty. Did you make it?
isolde		It was a present.
man		Tristan?
tristan		Might I stay here a while?
man		Of course.
edyth		Tristan!
marke		Ive never seen him like this before.
isolde		Perhaps someone his own age should speak with him.
isolde		They believe you are distant. They are worried about you. So am I.
tristan		I can tell. Laughing at the market, holding hands, a caress on the neck when he pours you wine.
isolde		He is my husband. I remember his Kingdom comes before my life.
tristan		Yes well, I must confess I thought you might find more difficulties in performing your duty.
isolde		Am I not permitted a single moment without mourning? Living with this Tristan as you said we must.
tristan		I live in torture thinking of these moments. With every look he gives you I get sicker and sicker. There is a burning in me, I feel on fire and guilt and I can't get rid of either. Does it make you happy to know that?
isolde		The Roman Bridge. I can get to it without being seen. And I will go there anytime to be there with you.
marke		Welcome bands of Anglia, Rothgar and Orick. Wessex: Kaye and Wictred.
wictred		As you will be King and his daughter Queen, does that mean Donnchadh will be coming to the coronation.
marke		It does. On the next full moon, all will attend.
wictred		A lot can happen in a month
marke		Bearing that in mind, and given the instabilities of our new land I shall be naming a second. My sister has raised one, capable of guiding you if the need should arise. He is a man of passion, fierce in battle who has learnt to tame his heart with his head. I give you Tristan of Aragon.
marke		For the first time since the Romans, this country stands united.
tristan		I cant be your second. Melot must be. He is blood. Besides, I wish to journey north.
marke		You no longer sleep at Dor, and now you dont want to be my second. Do you find no comfort in your home? These stone walls that you helped build?
tristan		I find these walls a prison.
marke		Why?
tristan		Everything I want seems misplaced.
marke		Ever since you were a boy you sacrificed everything for me. All for one dream. Now that you reached that dream, it is natural that you would feel some loss. It doesnt matter if you want to be second. You are. I will only be king if you are my second. Id put it more gently if I could.
tristan		Then I am your second.
marke		Perhaps it is time that you took a wife!
tristan		No!
marke		Cant live alone forever.
tristan		I can!
marke		Isolde. I was trying to explain to Tristan the importance of loving. It seems he might live without it.
isolde		Why?
tristan		There are other things to live for. Duty. Honour.
isolde		But they are not life Tristan. They are the shells of life. And empty ones and in the end all they hold is days and days without love. Love is made by God. Ignore it and you can suffer as you cannot imagine.
tristan		Then I will no longer live without it.
marke		Good. Very good! Come, we will be late!
isolde		Late?
marke		The warriors ride out on the full moon. It is an old ritual. I shall miss you tonight.
isolde		How many did you love before me?
tristan		None.
isolde		And after me?
tristan		None.
man		Lord Marke! Are you hurt?
marke		Nothing but for my pride.
melot		Tristan, I need to speak with you.
tristan		Go ahead.
melot		We havent even had a coronation yet to mark tradition. But now he breaks tradition and scares all the barons by naming you as second.
tristan		I tried to convince him you would be better.
melot		Yes well, peace can be just as treacherous as war and I feel that Marke doesnt really...Listen to me!!! Our attention must be on Cornwall now more than ever.
tristan		I am sorry he didnt choose you. I am.
melot		Can I speak to you?
isolde		What do you think became of them?
tristan		They were lives... just lived.
isolde		I find myself imaging things in this place. I decorate it. Books, a harp there... a child.
tristan		Would it be his or mine?
isolde		I would have no way to tell, would I? He is a kind man Tristan, I cannot hate him. Yesterday at the market I saw a couple holding hands, and I realised we would never do that. Never anything like it. No picnics or unguarded smiles. No rings. Just stolen moments that leave too quickly.
marke		Where is Isolde?
bragnae		I dont know for sure, she was having a walk in the garden before and Im afraid I got tired so I returned. Its my fault.
bragnae		Youre going to get caught! Both of you! Hes looking for you right now, hell see you! I told you this would happen!
tristan		There is another door here, forgotten. This comes up in the bottom chamber of the keep.
isolde		I hate this.
tristan		Hurry! Go on.
bragnae		Im tired of this. Im tired of lying for you. Im sick of it.
isolde		Then dont.
isolde		There is a servings child, quite ill. Doing better now.
marke		I didnt ask you were you were. Your heart is beating so fast.
isolde		Is it?
marke		Isolde. Is there anything I can do to make you happier. I want to make you happy.
isolde		Im fine.
wictred		Shes in love with Tristan. Theyre intimates. If I expose them it will break Markes heart and his hold on the other Barons.
king donnchadh		How?
wictred		With Markes champion in chains, well take Castle Dor. You can man your armies unopposed. There will be no one defending you in the waters.
king donnchadh		And your price?
wictred		I want Markes throne.
king donnchadh		When his throne falls apart, well go over and pick up the pieces.
marke		Tristan? Can I speak with you? Is it possible... do you think a man blinded by love... Is it possible that that man might not see treachery right in front of him?
tristan		No.
marke		Perhaps you could follow her. I cant ask anyone else. I know. I know what you think  Im acting like a child. Normally I can read faces, but with hers I feel like... I can't be objective. Shes so delicate.
tristan		You really love her.
marke		Oh... I do...terribly. I didnt know how empty I was. She sustains me, she thrills me. And when I see this ring, it is a ring of thorns.
tristan		The ring is nothing. She's loyal to you. I am sure of it.
marke		... If you say so.
man		I count nine
tristan		If they move they will warn us with a black flag
marke		You bring an entourage?
king donnchadh		I can let myself be alone in my position Lord Marke. But dont worry, they will stay offshore.  I miss you.
marke		My nephew, Merlot of Cornwall
king donnchadh		And Tristan, slayer of my best general, winner of Isolde, defender of the alliance. You are a fortunate man.
marke		Indeed.
marke		Tristan! Seems I worried for nothing.
wictred		May I dance with the Queen, or does Tristan have the next one?
marke		Thats right, you have never danced with Isolde before!
wictred		A new song for Tristan. Slow.
isolde		Why did you burn it?
tristan		You know.
isolde		Meet me there in an hour or Ill die.
marke		I could still teach you a thing or two, dancing being one of them.
kaye		Accuse him now.
wictred		No, no, no. Well have more than accusations.
marke		Is something the matter?
isolde		Im just feeling a little weary thats all. I might just go and have a lie down.
marke		Of course.
wictred		Friends, friends hear me! Weve forgotten the full moon isnt it time to ride out?
general		No. Tonight it cause for exception.
wictred		But the coronation should uphold tradition, surely it is not to be neglected already?
marke		We honour it. In half a night. Ride out! Wheres Tristan?
isolde		I miss Ireland
tristan		Isolde, this must end.
isolde		Thats like asking me to stop breathing.
tristan		It cannot be.  [Elsewhere Wictred leads the hunt to where Tristan and Isolde are]
isolde		Please dont leave me. Please!
marke		Isolde? There is someone...  No.
king donnchadh		I see how it is in Cornwall. My money is good enough, my alliance is good enough, but my daughter you pass amoung your lieutenants like a whore!
isolde		Its not like that.
king donnchadh		I see no relation to me here! I will see this peace end.
wictred		You have brought the allegiance to shame. Who would fight for this?
marke		Seize him. Seize him.
melot		Behold your hero uncle  I would have no heroes now.
bodkin		Theyre ashore.
king donnchadh		Prove your worth.
baron		If a man cant rule his woman, how can he govern an entire Kingdom?
melot		He cant.
lord		We have suffered peace.
baron		Its all been coming apart. I can feel it
lord		Youre right.
wictred		There is very little time. Fortunately, Donnchadh has no quarrel with anybody here. Hes asked me to give you a message.
baron		Whats this?
wictred		It is compensation for the men you will lose attacking Castle Dor with Donnchadh tomorrow. Lets be honest, our people need a stronger leader.
baron		And who might that be, Wictred?
wictred		Melot. Too long the ablest amoung us has been denied his rightful place. I pledge you my legiance and offer him my services as his second.
melot		I like this plan.
marke		I came to apologise. Ive been selfish arrogantly thinking that perhaps Id given enough. At least enough to merit if not your love then at least your respect. You have a home. A kingdom. Why was it not enough? Tell me.  Tell me! You do not know what you have done! Everything is destroyed, everything! All because you did not have enough. Shes loyal to you I am sure of it. You bloodsucker. What could it had been had I not stretched out my hand to save your life. How I curse that day, how I curse it. And so be with your defence. Then I will go complete your punishment, Donnchadh marches on us as we speak.
bragnae		Shes young. I will not let you harm her!
marke		How long?
isolde		Since you thought he was dead. I found him wounded on the beach in Ireland. I hid him from my father and I told him my name was Bragnae. So when he came to the tournament at Dunluce to win Donnchadhs daughter he didnt realise it was me. All this time my heart has been his, and I am sorry. He tried harder than you can possibly imagine because he loves you.
melot		I will coax him out, make sure Donnchadh knows this.
wictred		Of course, of course. You know as things moved along I suspected them for some time.
merlot		Tristan and Isolde?
wictred		You know what I could never work out? How it was conducted. How she got in and out of Dor unseen.
merlot		The tunnel.
wictred		What?
merlot		The Roman Tunnel!
wictred		Show me.
tristan		What is this?
henchman		The will of the King. Farwell.
isolde		I told him about Ireland. Hes given us our freedom. Why does loving you feel so wrong?
tristan		Get in.
isolde		Tristan, if I do this.
tristan		For all time, they will say it was our love that brought down a kingdom. Remember us.
isolde		Tristan, dont! Tristan! Tristan! Tristan! Why?! Tristan!
marke		Get the livestock and fuel undercover. Put some archers on the ramparts.
general		All the archers have deserted us as has half the household.
marke		And you stay?
man		If you are surprised then they have won already.
general		Come on, hurry!
king donnchadh		Burn it. Their will is as strong as milk. The seas will unravel us. Where is Wictred with his key?
melot		It comes up to the Roman foundations at the lowest level.
wictred		This is a godsend!  [They both enter it and Wictred gestures for his men to follow]
wictred		What will you say to him?
melot		That he will not make any more mistakes and that it is time for him to move ba  whats that?!
man		Aim for the front of the line
marke		They are waiting.
man		The Irish are inside!
marke		Follow me!
wictred		Bar the door make sure no one gets in!
melot		You.
tristan		What happened here?
melot		A reward for idiocy. A dozen Irish have blazed your way.
tristan		Melot, I came to aid Marke.
melot		Everyone lies.
tristan		I didnt lead them here.
melot		No, I did.
tristan		Why?
melot		I thought someone believed in me.
tristan		It will be undone.
melot		TristanIm for the wormsswear to me that you are true.
tristan		As we were brothers.
melot		Build my boat.
wictreds man		Theyre here!
wictred		Keep them back.
markes man		Wictred.
marke		Hes trying to lower the bridge
markes man		Traitor!
marke		Give me your shield, were pinned down!
marke		Tristan!
markes man		Him too?
marke		No, hes with us!
marke		Tristan!  [Tristan stabs Wictred and kills him. Tristan pulls the sword from his body as the battle subsides]
marke		Tristan! How did you get here?
tristan		Secret. Secrets, in the bowls of the keep.
marke		In the bowls of the keep.
man		They have reached the palisades.
general		Then we must keep hope.
king donnchadh		Get back! Ha ha ha! Ha ha ha!  [Tristan slowly steps out with the head of Wictred in his hands]
tristan		Behold! The head of a traitor!
marke		Will you always be little men, who cannot see what was and could be again? There is no middle ground! So slay us  or slay him!
king donnchadh		Oblidge them.  Oblidge them!  [He attacks people around him, but is shot in the back by an arrow. Suddenly the Irish and the British start to fight. Tristan falls to the ground and Marke runs to his side]
tristan		Take me out of here. Take me to the river.
general		Hurry!
marke		Bring her.
general		Marke, you must come, the battle needs you. Well lose everything.
marke		I must heed their call, I am the King.
general		Weve driven them back as far as we can but they are holding us at the throat.
general		Goodbye my friend.  [Marke and his generals leave and Isolde goes to Tristans side]
isolde		Know that I love you Tristan. And wherever you go, whatever you see, I will always be with you.
tristan		You were right. I do not know if life is greater than death, but love was more than either.
isolde		"My face in thine eyes, thine in mine appears,
****Dialogues from script :Tropic_Thunder.txt****

black		The FOX SEARCHLIGHT LOGO comes up. AN EXTREMELY BEAUTIFUL JAMES HORNER TYPE,SCORE PLAYS... i
trailer announcer		In a time where to be different was to be condemned... and to be condemned was to die...
trailer announcer		.one man chose to question his God... Lazarus screams angrily at crucifix on the wall:
lazarus		 You made me! Why can't you... UNMAKE ME!'
trailer announcer		Winner of the Palm D'or, The Golden Bear, The Laughing Monkey and over 350 film critics' '10 BEST' picture lists, and hailed by Roger Ebert as "A MASTERPIECE
black		The thumping blade gets LOUDER AND LOUDER, the BASS LINE of "BREAK ON THROUGH TO THE OTHER SIDE" rising with it until finally...
motown		That's for Brooklyn, Muthafucka! Underneath the hovering chopper, OSIRIS,a black, buffed out Rambo-looking Sergeant, is letting loose his M-16 with abandon, yelling at the pilot to get the bird lower. It does. Fats grabs. the mortally wounded Brooklyn and slings him over his shoulder, Brooklyn's shirt is blown open revealing his entrails...in shock, he clutches his liver in his right hand, and is trying futilely to put it back in his body...
motown		 SIR! Requesting permission to disobey Sergeant's orders, SIR! FOUR LEAF IS
chopper pilot		Sir! We gotta DIDI NOW! Air strike confirmed! This place is gonna be toast in about thirty seconds! Osiris turns on Motown, pulling his .45 in the midst of the mayhem. He pushes it up into Motown's neck.
brooklyn		A 1, I qft  I Id Sarge... .We PUSH IN ON BROOKLYN dramatically as he raises his head. Looking off to the tree line, he points a crooked finger...
brooklyn		It's him. It's Four Leaf... Everyone turns to-see... FOUR LEAF, who looks a lot like CHRIS MICHAEL SPEEDMAN from the "Scorcher" trailer, . burst through the treeline, half limping, half crawling heroically through the massive firefight in SLOW MOTION. He is being chased.by about-FIFTY _VIET...CONG SOLDIERS... Everyone on board seems mesmerized. Osiris sees it, and can't believe his eyes... nevertheless, he screams to the pilot. I
four leaf		Get outta here. I'm worm food, man, you dig?
osiris		 What, and give up all that California pussy you been talking about? Shiiit. Someone's gotta show me around L.A...
four leaf		 Shit. . .the only way you're gonna get a piece of LA pussy if is you go out to the graveyard and dig some up... Osiris looks down at Four Leaf's now missing arms...
osiris		Well ...y...you better come along and bring the shovel... He starts to choke up.
four leaf		I'm scared,. Sarge. 'Scared I ain't never gonna see another sunset.  Why does a man want to pick up sticks against another man... 'Stead of usin' them sticks. to prop a man up? Osiris nods, now crying like a baby... 4Id Iu I. Igft
four leaf		 Hold my hands... 'cause I got somethin' to say... Osiris looks down.at Four. Leaf's bloody, stringy stumps. There's nothing to hold...
four leaf		Are, you holding them?
four leaf		I ain't never been worth a. nothin' in this life, and it's kinda late to start b e i' a somethin' now. But you... you are my... b-b-brother. Four Leaf screws.up.his .face and begins to cry--except that he can't. He tries again... and can't.. Hescrews up his face grotesquely...
four leaf		You are my... WE NOW PULL BACK TO REVEAL we are actually on location shooting this war scene with about 50 CREW MEMBERS watching, surrounded by millions of dollars worth of film equipment. Four Leaf, actually the superstar. playing him, Speedman, is getting increasingly self-conscious, becoming more and. more aware of the-crew waiting for him to cry. The actor playing Osiris, KIRK LAZARUS, is also getting uncomfortable holding Speedman's not-crying head.
speedman		 I'm sorry, can we cut, Damien? Damien grips his headphones in confusion, looking around to his cadre of assistants and ADs... The chopper continues to hover, soldiers continue to fight, except a few are starting to wonder what's going on.
speedman		CUT! We gotta cut, Dorf!
speedman		No! Not still rolling! Cut! Damien runs towards Speedman. Fats, who is young fat comedy gross-out star JEFF PORTNOY, gets up from the ground, rubbing his butt.
portnoy		OW, SHIT! I fell right on my ass bone! Other "dead" extras begin to hold their heads up and look around. Some are amputee stuntmen.
damien		STILL ROLLING! Get down Kevin, you're dead! Sandusky immediately complies, he seems to be the only actor listening to the director.
speedman		I'm sorry.. I can't do it, Dorff. Damien runs up to Speedman. They are the center of attention -- the whole crew watching them.
damien		It's good, keep going. This is a big shot so keep going, let it come. No arms, you're hanging on, it's-al-1-coming out... It's real, death, life, brotherhood and we just... let's keep it going now... He starts to back out, turning his finger in the "still rolling" motion. He gives a thumbs up to the AD.
cody		Is that the signal?
speedman		(above the din of the
lazarus		I'm sorry, so, just keep crying or are'we cutting??
damien		No, no, it's good. Portnoy is walking around massaging his butt.
portnoy		Damien, I think I broke my ass. Is it possible to break your ass?
damien		Get back in character Portnoy! Still rolling everyone!  Great crying Kirk -- stay with that. Chris Michael, don't worry about where Kirk is at, just be Four Leaf crying right here and now and still rolling... and GO!
cody		Did he say "go"? 
speedman		Wait, hey, y'know, maybe- is it the line? "You are my brothers"? I don't think I would.say that. Four Leaf wouldn't say that.
damien		Yes, well-you see, Four Leaf was there and he did say that. So... Right. So let's just go...
speedman		Is he here, or is he-'at the.hotel? Because I would love to run it by him.
lazarus		You know what, this is nuts. You got my take. I'm done.  Movie star. We'll be here till Chinese New Year waitin.' for my man to. cry.
damien		Kirk! Wait! Lazarus keeps walking.
damien		Kirk!
lazarus		.You got my take.
redykulous		Hey, can we get this going? I got peeps coming to my room to rub me down at 4. Bitches, too. His phone rings again.
redykulous		 Hey! What's up! Naw, nothing -- same soup, just re-heated, you know? Redykulous wanders off in another direction. The AD is now yelling into Damien's ear.
damien		 EVERYONE! Please! The chopper only has so much gas! PORTNOY, trying to lighten the mood, rips a huge FART.
portnoy		Plenty of gas right here, D-man! (then feeling the pain in his
redykulous		Hey, yo! I am trying to have a conversation here!
damien		Okay, fine! Fuck me! What the fuck do I know? I'm just the fucking...  Godfuckit! Damien throws his headphones off in frustration... and throws up his hands.
cody		There's the signal! GO! GO! GO! Let's light this puppy up! Let's go freaking 11 TET here!! i Cody and his assistants push plungers, buttons, pull levers, and drag metal wands over long lines of wired nails, they spark and fizz...
on cody		climaxing with joy as he barks commands and pushes ever more buttons..
the blast		blows the helicopter backwards into a bank of lights,' causing them to tip.and-begin a GIGANTIC CHAIN REACTION that takes down most of the equipment, then finally THE
cameraman		Sorry, Damien.'Chris Michael was saying to cut, so we cut-- The AD comes up to the lost looking Damien.
speedman		I think I got another in me if you want to go again, Damien. Damien looks at the scorched treeline behind them. Speedman looks too, then looks back at Damien.
speedman		Your call. In the background, Cody is casually putting out a fire on his lap. He gives an 'I'm O.K.' gesture to no one in particular.
julie		Well, it might look like 1969 here in the tiny Southeast Asian country of Bien Den Phu, but it is 2007, and they are making history. We are here with an E! exclusive, the first look behind the scenes at what Hollywood insiders are calling the most expensive war movie ever produced. It's called "Tropic Thunder", and first time Director Damien Dorfman has assembled an all-star cast to play the forgotten grunts who perished near here more than 35 years ago.
speedman		 You mu-mu-muhhh make me'ha-aaaapy.
julie		 But now, the question is can Speedman "mu- mu-make" audiences happy in the true life story of war hero Four Leaf Tayback in "Tropic Thunder". And,' possibly a shot  1. -4416 at that elusive gold statuette?
speedman		 All I want is to make the real Four Leaf here proud. It's his story, he lived it and wrote it in his book. That's why we're here. But really, I mean, how cah we begin to understand what he-- what you --went through? Four Leaf fixes his stoic, steely gaze on the horizon for a beat. He lifts his hands up, and we see he has only two HOOKS. Speedman studies him closely, aping his gestures, trying to "get inside" him as much as possible.
speedman		That's great. He's like a... Buddha or something. Maybe I should rub his belly for luck! He laughs, but quickly realizes Four Leaf doesn't find it funny.
julie		 Like for a lucky Oscar nod this time? Maybe you should rub Kirk Lazarus's belly! He already has three! Speedman laughs uncomfortably, trying to seem unperturbed. i "I' 0, nM y
julie		. is famous for his total immersion into whatever role he plays. To.transform into the role of the African American Sergeant who saved_Four Leaf's life...
julie		After undergoing experimental pigmentation alteration procedures in a Singapore clinic, this was the startling result.
damien		My goal, quite simply, is for an audience member to walk out of the cinema, feeling as if they were IN Vietnam for two hours. Quite literally.
reporter		Are you intimidated about working with actors for the first time?
damien		Intimidated?
julie		And from the world of hip-hop, multi.-- platinum selling rapper, producer, and clothing designer Redykulous, and star of his own hi't reality show "Utterly Redykulous".
redykulous		As far as Redykulous is concerned, you .know, I 'always believed you've got to exploit every opportunity. He holds up a can of "PYMP SWEAT".
redykulous		That's why my new sports drink Pymp Sweat is the official beverage on the set of Tropic Thunder, as well as my new energy bar, the "Bust-A-Nut", with all proceeds going to clean up land mines in this previously war ravaged area.
julie		At a reported budget north of $200 million, Tropic Thunder could end up costing almost as much as the real war! But the good news for Damien Dorfman and his troops -- the Oscar buzz is already starting! So for El News I'm Julie-- All of a sudden Portnoy, wearing a Tropic Thunder cap all askew and surfer shorts with no shirt, bursts out of the bushes. He screams wildly and GRABS Julie, who cracks up laughing at his "stunt". '
portnoy		 Me so horny!! Me so horny!! He jumps into the pool with her! What a crack up!
damien		You can't do that Todd.
damien		Dailies are always bad! Bad dailies, good movie! Isn't that what they say?
damien		Well, yes, that's exactly-it,.Walter if- you actually came out here you would see that .these actors are--
in		VOICE OF TODD  I will not be called an eco-terrorist, do you understand that? Damien looks a bit bewildered by that. His hot young assistant comes in with a cell phone.
damien		 Yes, Chris!?
speedman		Hey, Dorf. Just wanted to call and throw a little pep talk your way. I know today was rough, and you're probably mad at yourself for not getting the shots, but that's the way these movies go. We all boot it from time to time, and today was just one of those days. Happens.
damien		 Yes it does. It does. Though I do think you have to realize Chris, that you are somewhat responsi--
speedman		Oh, also needed to let you know, and I. .know you're like wrapped up with the movie, but I really need that new chef like we talked about, you know to really 4 get that super-ripped thing happening. This guy is great but all he makes are dumplings. And they stiill haven't worked out the TiVo thing. III I. I I 4I
speedman		Yeah, of course, I just know we talked about getting super-super-ripped for that starvation sequence Speedman's other line goes. He sees the caller I.D.
speedman		Oh,, shit-- can you hang on a sec, D? He switches over,, but it takes a few seconds with the hooks.
speedman		Rick?.
speedman		What?
peck		I'm looking at your ugly mug on the back of Vanity Fair magazine in beautiful living color with the two cute cuddly pandas from cuteville. It's insane.
peck		The credibility factor that the pandas give you is priceless, and strangely, if' you see this picture, what really strikes me is the credibility that you give them. I've been getting psychotic feedback all day. Hey did you get the basket I sent? WE SEE: A survival-themed gift basket in a camouflage backpack, There's a satellite phone, camouflage sunblock, etc.
speedman		Yeah. Thanks.
peck		You sad? What's wrong?
speedman		No I'm fine. I've just been having a tough time over here. They still havn't got the TiVo hooked up and... I don't know... Lazarus is getting all this Oscar buzz already --
peck		Is that what this is about? Crazy Kirk Lazarus goes and places his entire body in some experimental Malaysian dipping sauce so he can actually be black, of course he's gonna get buzz. Listen to what I am telling you. He is clinically mentally not right.
speedman		Yeah but the way they talk about him. I mean, he played a retarded guy and won an Oscar, I play a retarded guy and don't even get a nomination. I don't know, I mean you said "Simple Jack" would be my "Elf" but with Oscars. Those were your exact words.
peck		I don't believe those were my exact words but let's get beyond that to the root of this. Remember the moment you chose to do, this', and I wanted you to do the ESP robot thing with Wolfgang Petersen? And I said stay home be happy and you said "no, Rick I need to play a real human being" and I said "okay" and then I said "are you sure?" and you said that you needed this-for your soul?
speedman		Yes but --
peck		Which I totally respected and now you're doing the crazy surfer three..sixty move on me,..which I love by the-way-- but-you said fuck it, I gotta do it for my soul And-that's why I hate you.. Because you were RIGHT. And you're in. the Phuc Long fucking Delta,. in the real mud, with- leeches in your hair, 20,000 mil es from Fatburger.being an actor-And, I would wager, forcing everyone around you to rise to your level. Am I right? I mean you are over there forcing a bunch of PUSSY actors to gel, straighten up and. become a platoon. And it hurts. Am I right? Speedman actually seems tohave bought-this
speedman		Yeah. You are right.
peck		Alright, that's what.I thought. Now get to work genius soldier. I'll handle the .TiVo. Peck hangs up abruptly.
on speedman		Speedman punches the button on his cordless and puts. it down. He ponders Rick's words as he gets caught up watching the end scene of "SIMPLE JACK" on his TV. He has forgotten Damien is on the other line.
damien		Chris? You there? Hello? Finally, after a few moments of listening to this, Damien explodes. He throws the phone on the ground and jumps up and down on it. He notices the crew staring at him. He tries to look as if that just didn't happen. He opens the sliding glass, and heads straight to the door. He continues walking through his office, out into the main offices. He motions for his assistant to join him.
damien		Get everyone together! We are having a cast meeting" tonight! No choice! Everyone must attend. I am putting my foot down!
portnoy		 comes up to them, looking fresh faced and eager.
sandusky		I'm Kevin. Are you serious? Kevin Sandusky? I'm playing Brooklyn?
portnoy		Oh yeah. Right. Hey, have you seen that grip with the bandana?
sandusky		Uh, no. I think-- But Portnoy is off already looking for his drug connection. They both watch him go.
sandusky		Hey, Mr. Dorfman, I was hoping to find you. I know this is a party, but this afternoon after work I was breaking down my M-16, and I have to say, in the night watch scene, a minute and a half is a pretty short amount of time to assemble it.
sandusky		Oh, yeah. Of course. This is a huge opportunity. To be working with all these great actors, and you.
damien		You're the only one who auditioned. You're the only one who did the two week boot camp, Sandusky.
sandusky		Yeah, I know. It was kind of weird. Wasn't the point that we were all supposed to bond?
speedman		I guess I just watched some retarded people. I mean, I spent a lot. of time. with them... watching them.. Watching all the retarded stuff they did.
lazarus		Huh, I always found mere observation a little rudimentary. Gotta dig deeper to mine the true emotional,paydirt. Diagram the source of the pain. Then live it.
speedman		 Retarded. I was retarded.in.the trailer, retarded at home., Brushing my. teeth retarded. In a `weird way I had to unlearn what it was to be... .NOT retarded.
lazarus		Yeah... but Simple Jack thought he was smart. Or, rather, didn't think he was retarded. So you can afford to play retarded', being a smart actor. Tricky tricky stuff. Hats off for going. there. Especially.knowing how the Academy is about that shit. Speedman is lost:
speedman		About what?
lazarus		 Are you serious? Everyone knows you don't ever go fully retarded!
speedman		How do you mean? Lazarus sets his. drink down. School's in session.
lazarus		Check it out. Dustin Hoffman, Rain Man. Looked retarded. Acted retarded. NOT retarded. He could count toothpicks, cheat at cards. Autistic. Sure. NOT retarded. HANKS'. Forest Gump. Slow? Yes.
lazarus		You went full retard, man. You never go 14 full retard. Don't believe me? Ask Sean Penn, 2001, I am Sam. Went full retard. Went home empty handed. Speedman sees this for the truth it is. How could he be so stupid?
lazarus		 But hey, man! Who knows? Four Leaf could be your ticket to Oscar gold. I'd lose the hook hands though... cripples don't give the Academy wood either.
damien		Redykulous... I need to talk to you.
redykulous		What up, money.
damien		 We're having a cast meeting, right now We need to come together as a unit -- The camera crew moves in for the close-up. . .making Damien uncomfortable ... Redykulous takes it in stride. Throughout the scene he is TEXT MESSAGING someone.
redykulous		Uh-huh... Damien is made uncomfortable by the cameraman who has i started manually zooming in and out on him in a dutch style camera move... DAMIEN i Do you mind if we step away for a moment?
redykulous		From what? Damien tries to indicate the crew.
damien		 From the...uh...you know... .this area..
damien		Oh. Hah! No, I mean away from the cameras. you understand?. Away from  them...
redykulous		No.
damien		What?
redykulous		No. I can't do that. If Redykulous steps away from the cameras then my .people don't get to see the real Redykulous. The show is called "Utterly Redykulous".
damien		Well this is about work ...my show so to. .speak. Do you understand?
redykulous		I guess. But not really. Your show and my show are the same thing. This is gonna help your show, trust me.
damien		Excuse me, everyone! If I could have your attention! Nothing. No one notices except Speedman. Damien grabs a couple bottles off the bar and BANGS them together.
damien		Sorry to break up the party, but I just wanted to call your attention to a cast meeting tonight! Big meeting! Future of the film depends on it!
speedman		 "When... we.'.. put... aside... our... differences... we see we're kind of the same." Within moments, the place settles completely.
speedman		I was looking-at it all backwards. You guys are lost. You heed.me to.lead you, to help you gel, and straighten.up -- like a PLATOON! A long beat.
portnoy		 Hey,. Speedman! That bullshit pep'talk made me.H-h-h-h-h-happy! The entire party cuts.up.in loud hysterics. Speedman looks hurt. The DJ puts on-a Redykulous track really loud, and the, place gets even crazier.
four leaf		You don't know which way is up, do you private`? You couldn't find a dixie coonskin with an Ohio hooker holding your prick. and showin' you the way... Damien doesn't know what the fuck that meant. Four Leaf moves to him, staring deep into his eyes. Damien's eyes widen in fear.
four leaf		A raindrop cannot carve a valley. An ant cannot defeat a buffalo. But a tempest can cleave that mountain to make the valley, and an army of ants can fell the mighty buffalo.
damien		 Yes...
four leaf		If the lion, although king of the jungle, is thrown into the sea, he will drown... but...if...
damien		 I want to!!! But not really!!
four leaf		I put my story in your limp Brit hands and you will not fail me!!  My boys were worse pussies than these guys. But the shit is what made us a unit. A whole. You must put them in the
four leaf		There's a place. About a hundred clicks from here, as the crow flies. Deep in the jungle. No trailers, no port-a-potties. Nothing but triple canopy jungle and cockroaches the size of melons. Damien seems intrigued yet a little freaked out by his weirdness.
damien		And...?
four leaf		Rig up your documentary cameras'in that jungle, give me and Cody a few of those smoke bombs and some charges and we could light up the jungle so those lily-dick actors would think they were in the middle of. Hamburger Hill. You.get them thinking they're getting shot at, and you'll have your movie. Suddenly, Four Leaf slaps his neck with his hook as though he has been bitten. He holds out a small squished mosquito' between the claws of his prosthesis.
four leaf		You must put them.under your thumb the way this. bug is under mine... .under YOUR control.
damien		I see ...yes ...They would 'be under my total control... finally. I could shoot the whole movie there. Gritty. Dirty. Away from their pampered pussy posses and helpers...
four leaf		Yes... yes...
damien		Put them in the real shit. Film them with real fear in their eyes. REAL FEAR!
four leaf		Save your breath, maggots! They all shrink back. Four Leaf's fierce posture is undercut as the helicopter lurches, sending Damien sprawling onto hire.
damien		That'sright. Maggots.
four leaf		See you in hell! As the noise of the helicopter fades, the group starts. trying to orient itself in their new surroundings.' The Jungle. Black, dense, unforgiving. All around them can be seen the remnants of a war that has been over for thirty years. A grave marker,. half of an old rusted out'downed chopper. All are absorbing the spookiness, except Portnoy who seems very upset.
portnoy		This is bullshit! Damien marches over to him, and SLAPS HIM REPEATEDLY in the face.
damien		Okay, girls... now that I have your attention, I will tell you fuckfaces what we're doing here. You are no longer actors in a movie. You,are grunts in a war. These men around you are your brothers. The guys look at each other, unhappy.
damien		Congratulations. You've just landed in "the shit". Your objective is to head north and liberate the village at D'ang Kwook Hill, at which point "Four Leaf" gets himself captured, at which point you rescue him, at which point we will chopper you home. We will also be rigging this entire valley of death with hidden cameras so that every glorious moment gets on film. And believe me it WILL be glorious. If it looks real, chances are good it probably is. You wanted to be actors? You wanted to occupy the skin of another human being? Get ready to occupy the skin of a terrified U.S. Infantry grunt, surrounded by death, crawling up Satan's arsehole. There's going to be enemy fire. Booby traps. Your own personal little slice of the 'Nam. The group shares a look -- "What's going on?" He pulls out a laminated packet.
damien		 Think you can handle it? From now on, Whatever we get on film is our movie, period. Damien pulls out a walkie-talkie.
damien		THIS is your only link to, the real world. It will be used only in an emergency or to replenish our supplies if absolutely necessary. This is NOT a cell phone. This radio goes'to the chopper, and the chopper ONLY. The chopper is GOD, and I am Jesus Christ his SONI!! You will' depend on and pray 'to US!! And nobody i i n I' IMd4 gets home until we get the shots!  Now... let's'put the greatest war movie ever in the can! With that, Damien marches toward the treeline and'steps on a dormant LAND MINE left sleeping for decades., BLOWING'
speedman		Whoa.
cody		So, I'm thinkin' as soon as Damien gives us the go ahead, we'ust their cherry with a few airbursts, then alpha-alpha till they come running right at, us, then a good of fashioned firefight, maintaining our distance. Four Leaf ignores him, instead looking around the jungle, looking almost lost.
cody		I been meaning to tell ya the whole shoot. I'm probably one-a your biggest fans. Your book was kinda my "Catcher in the Rye". It inspired me to become a gyro man. Four Leaf gives Cody nothing -- except his usual stoic stare.
cody		I'm actually sort of a war nut. I mean I never was in the service, but for me blowing shit up in a war films is sort of my way of paying tribute to the real deal. And you sir, are the real deal. Nothing.
cody		Hey, I was wonderin' what kind of sidearm you carry? Looks to me like a--
four leaf		 I don't know what it's called. I just know the sound it makes when it takes a man's life. Cody, a little spooked, picks up his radio.
cody		Ok, we're ready to rock and roll.  Damien, come in. Cameras are up, ordinance are up. Ready to kick the tires and light the fires on your say so.
portnoy		I think he's like... dead.
redykulous		I don't think he's hiding.. I think he just died! Sandusky leans down towards the off screen corpse. pulls a wrist into frame.
sandusky		He doesn't. have a pulse ...or a head. He then grabs a bent and rusty.piece of metal.
sandusky		Must've been one of those Claymore mines. This old Jungle must.be full of them.,
redykuzous		You bet your ass it is. That's why a percentage of my Pymp Sweat Profits are helpin' solve the problem! Damien's corpse emits a disturbing death rattle. Speedman busts up laughing. They turn to him -- what the hell? Speedman throws an-arm.around Sandusky, -like an indulgent older brother.
speedman		C'mon! Don't you get it? This is what .Dorf was talking about -- our slice of the Nam! He's trying to get in our heads!
speedman		That whole "life and death" speech in the chopper? He's meshing 'with us! What do you think all that "playing God" was about? The guys breathe a huge collective sigh of relief -- except Lazarus.
lazarus		Are you nuts, shithead? The dude is dead!! Sandusky looks unsure. He doesn't want to take sides.
speedman		Kirk. I know you're the big fancy actor here, but, no offense, I've done a lot mote effects driven event films, and I think I can spot a prop body.
speedman		 I got a baaaad feeling on this one, Fats. The group remains motionless., Speedman gives Portnoy a ,M in MAIM "c'mon!" type look. Portnoy doesn't know what he means...
speedman		I said, I got a baaad feeling on this one, Brooklyn... Oh! He's acting! Sandusky hesitantly takes the cue, and starts walking. stealthily around.with him, on high.alert.for Charlie. Swinging his gun unpredictably.
sandusky		 Me too, cap'n.
speedman		Naw, man. I know you ain't crazy Brooklyn...
sandusky		Well,. if I told you that I, I never actually, well, been with a girl...you wouldn't, like, think I was, like, queer .or nothin'... would you.?
speedman		.Naw, man... I wouldn't think you was a queer.
redykulous		(acting really "black guy"
portnoy		The last "mugambo" you ever tasted was in your momma's soup bowl. I wouldn't mind slurpin' on a little of that --
speedman		That's enough outta you Fats. Don't you worry, Brooklyn. You gotta lotta days a fucking ahead of you and I for one ain't gonna let Charlie... Lazarus can't handle it anymore.
lazarus		What the FUCK is wrong with you people?! Speedman shoots him a look then takes a few steps back. He addresses the treeline.
speedman		Sorry Damien! Back to one... action!  Don't you worry, Brooklyn, You gotta
lazarus		Yo, asshole! Mothafucka just DIED! Speedman sighs, annoyed.
speedman		How many more takes you wanna wreck? Some of us are taking this seriously. Lazarus looks likes he wants to explode. But instead he becomes eerily calm. He begins an impressive transformation -- Everything except for his skin color returns to his real identity, a pompous Irish prick.
lazarus		 Jaysus! There isn't going to be any movie, ya gobshite!
portnoy		 i Wow. That was really cool.
the guerillas		Are watching this, poised to attack.
speedman		Excuse me Kirk, I think you dropped something. He mimes picking something , off, the ground.
speedman		It's called your character. Don't worry, I won't tell the Academy! Suddenly: GUNFIRE FROM EVERYWHERE! The Guerrillas have seized the moment. The actors all immediately hit the dirt, except for Speedman,.who just looks annoyed and blase as dirt and debris kicks up all around him.
speedman		You happy now? We're out of position for the effect! Am I the only one who read .the script?! This is the ambush! A tree aboveSpeedman gets hit, explodes, sprays chunks of wood and shrapnel everywhere.
sandusky		I think they're really shooting at us!
speedman		What are you guys worried about? These guys are pros. The unions would tear them a new ass-if any of us got hurt. The actors stay down, looking scared.
speedman		Come on, you guys! Let's use this!
four leaf		Hear that? Cody is preoccupied with the radio and the explosives.
cody		What? I still can't get Damien on the radio. I bet he forgot how to use the Walkie again. What do you say we get a little... pro-active? Cody, very excited, grabs a plunger.
on cody		He pushes down the plunger...
cody		Right on!! I bet Damien heard that!. Cody turns to Four Leaf, and finds himself staring straight at 10 GUERILLA FIGHTERS with their submachine guns pointed straight at them.
cody		Oh shit.
four leaf		Oh yeah. And with that Cody and Four Leaf are.RIFLE BUTTED out of consciousness...
redykulous		That was some sick shit! I wasn't even thinking bout the camera! The guys' adrenaline is flowing, they do high fives all around. Lazarus is not happy. He looks off into the jungle, sensing that someone was out there.
speedman		Damien said to head north. I'm guessing they've got more of these "battles" and Viet Congs rigged for uls on the way.  Alright, let's hump-our shit to D'ang Kwook! Let's didi double time! We got a lot of clicks to cover! Speedman heads off into a particularly dense section of jungle. After a beat, he reappears, looking a little lost.
sandusky		Uh...Sir, isn't it that way? Kevin points in the other direction. Speedman glances down at the map, which he rotates around, right side up now.
speedman		Oh yeah. Thanks, uh...
sandusky		 Kevin. Kevin Sandusky.
speedman		Right. Okay, To D'ang Kwook! Lets do-it- to-it! Everyone follows Speedman. Lazarus, very reluctantly, brings up the rear, still looking off into the jungle. A
unseen leader		.
portnoy		So... we're just supposed to keep walking?
speedman		We'll see some action soon enough. And try to stay in character. We're on camera..
portnoy		What do you mean "soon"?
speedman		Whenever Damien decides it's time, I guess.
portnoy		When's that?
speedman		I don't know. That's the whole point. Damien wants us tired and confused.
redykulous		Yeah, well I'm definitely qualifying for those objectives. Everyone chimes in -- they all need a break. Lazarus notices the mutinous vibe and smiles.
speedman		Fine, fine. Okay, let's take a break, but be on the lookout for anything. Charlie doesn't care if you're on a break or not. Speedman plunks down and opens the map. He seems puzzled. Lazarus eyes him suspiciously. Sandusky walks off to take a leak. Lazarus then watches him go. Off to the side, Sandusky starts to pee. He hears something rustle next to him.
lazarus		Speedman is watching. I don't have much time. I don't really need to piss. I need to talk to you. You went to the boot camp Sandusky, right? You can read that map?
sandusky		Yeah...
lazarus		Good, good. Speedman is a tosser. That hoor's melt really thinks this is a movie. And he's got the lot of ya convinced.
sandusky		You saying you don'tithink they're filming us?
lazarus		Of course not! It's only a matter of time before he walks us into more mines or more of whoever the hell was shootin', at us. That muppet's going to get us all killed. I need to convince everyone.to turn around, but I .can't do it without the map. You're the only one who can read it. Can I count on you?
sandusky		Well, yeah, I.guess. But
lazarus		Good man, Good man. Lazarus makesa big show of pretending he's done peeing, shaking, etc.., and heads back to the group. Speedman eyes Lazarus. What is he up to? Sandusky is just getting comfortable, begins to pee again. He hears another rustle. He turns.to see Speedman, right next to him.
speedman		I'm gonna level with you, bro. I don't need to pee. I need to talk to you. Speedman surreptitiously takes out a can of Pymp Sweat and sticks the tip of his Bowie knife into it, to create a red pee.stream.
speedman		Lazarus is insane. He's freaking out, and. he's gonna.ruin the whole movie for all of us. The men respect you, because you went to boot camp and rehearsal.  And you're pretty handy with that map. I need you on my side, Kyle.
sandusky		Kevin.
sandusky		Well, I --
speedman		Good man. Good man. Speedman rejoins the group, gives Lazarus a cocky look.
speedman		If we stay on this trajectory we should be reaching the village any minute now. At the end of the line, we hear a few groans emanating from Portnoy.
speedman		Buck up,, Fats ...we got a long road ahead of us...
redykulous		 Yeah, I'd like to check out some of those "meds" for my own self. Lazarus moves up to Speedman.
lazarus		Look, ya eejit, I mean, if there was a village don't you think we would have hit it by now?
speedman		Quit your carping, we're right where we're supposed to be!
lazarus		. Hey, Is there a feckin' river on that map? S.pee`dman refers to the'now sopping wet map.
speedman		Yes! There is! Its just a little more' down to the... lefty-down part from the: village.  Anyway,. this feels like the Sampan, Boat Raid at the end of the second act.
lazarus		I don't see a "Sampan" boat!
speedman		Any second now one should come by. Alright men, into the water! Everyone'except Lazarus reluctantly gets into the water. They all hold their rifles above their heads.
lazarus		Sandusky agrees. with me. Don't you, Sandusky? Kevin is caught, not sure what to d
speedman		Wait! First of all... Now Speedman grabs him.
speedman		Kelvin believes in this movie. And, second, need I remind you,. I am your superior officer.
lazarus		No, yer an actor. Arid if memory serves, a pretty shite one. The actors react -- Damn! Oh Snap! Shit! Speedman steels' himself.
speedman		THAT'S THE WAY OUT! That's our only chance!
portnoy		Yeah, but maybe we should stay here until they send help! Or maybe try to get back to the hotel.
speedman		Help from where! Need I remind you that Damien's orders were to --  Now, I already have an international box office presence, but for some of you, I'm guessing you might not want to screw this movie up! This actually seems to affect the actors. Lazarus can't believe it.
speedman		.okay...C'mon, boys! This way. Let's go get those Viet Congs! Lazarus throws down his gun. He's had it.
lazarus		Jay-sus Fuck! It's Viet Cona! Not Viet Congs! Viet Cong, you plunker! And, hey, if you're so sure of yourself, why don't you let Kelvin have a look at the map?! Kevin doesn't know what to do -- he doesn't want to get in the middle of this. Speedman continues to be the tough guy.
speedman		Be my guest. Speedman hands over the soggy map. Kevin looks. After a long beat...
sandusky		We've been going the wrong way. 'We were supposed to be doing this: Sandusky traces his finger along the correct route -- a clearly marked, northward arrow.
sandusky		instead, we did this. i I 1d Iv I. 11M% Sandusky draws a line due East --..into a. section of the. map clearly marked with scary skull and cross-bone type 14 % warnings.
portnoy		 Oh, man, this is not' cool, this is not cool at all. Speedman grabs the map back from Sandusky.
speedman		I can't believe you people!. You're pussing out on me? We are supposed to be a unit!
lazarus		No one is "pussing out." They just prefer not. to die.out here. Sandusky, can you get'us back to the landing zone without the map?
sandusky		It might be tricky, but maybe.
lazarus		Okay, which is it, gentlemen? Playin' war with Mister Box Office? Or staying alive?
speedman		Unbelievable!. Are you guys really gonna abandon this movie? A long tense. beat -- finally, Sandusky walks towards Lazarus. Everyone follows him. Speedman looks stunned. After a moment, he shakes his head and begins crossing the river, holding his rifle with both hands over his head.
speedman		So that's the way it,,is, huh? Fine! I'll finish the movie alone! (turns to Lazarus, under his
sandusky		Chris, You have no idea where you're going!
speedman		Yeah, I do!  I'm going to "EX'S. JUNGLE. DUSK. FOUR LEAF PINNED DOWN AND ALONE". And, I can shoot it alone. They'watch him trudge into the foliage. U2'S "BULLET THE BLUE SKY" comes up as the men watch Speedman disappear...
closer		Speedman walks through the scary jungle, exhausted. He is tired, lonely and hungry. The jungle is making all sorts of terrifying noises. Finally he stops and regards the treeline.
speedman		DORF!...CODY?!...What's the deal with a meal break? Are they gonna chopper stuff in later on? I don't wanna be a prima donna or anything, but, we gotta eat, right?
portnoy		Uhhh... .UHHHHHHHH.
portnoy		 Ohhh GOD! Is'anybody BOILING!? It's like a sweat lodge out here!
lazarus		Make a note gentlemen,. unwittingly, Jeffrey Portnoy is joining the proud ranks of those of us who have suffered for art.  A new frontier for you, Funny Man. When this is all over, you might have more than flatulence to offer an audience. Portnoy looks a little hurt.
redykulous		You know what? I think I actually liked you better when you were a nigga.
lazarus		You know, Redykulous', I respect what it is you do, the rapping, the rhyme-talking -- invented by the Irish I might add.
redykulous		"Why"?! I dunno...maybe because they had one good part for a black man in this movie and they gave it to a white guy.
lazarus		Oh...I see...Put another way -- you're mad because I can act "black" better than you can.
sandusky		Take it easy guys...
redykulous		 You better rein in 'black like me' over here, before I put a foot in his white ass...
lazarus		Niggaz always got to be niggaz. This is truly over the line. Redykulous lunges at Lazarus. They fight. Redykulous throws a wide punch, that Lazarus deftly avoids, that hooks Portnoy right in the jaw. Sandusky jumps in and pries them apart.
sandusky		Okay! That's enough! Jesus Christ! It's not enough we have people shooting at us! Now we have to kill each other?! Let's pull it together! This place is full of land mines! Or doesn't anyone's sense memory recall our director being blown up by onel? That shut them up.
lazarus		Sandusky is right... we could all learn a little from his common sense approach. From now on we walk Indian style, footstep upon footstep. Sandusky. . .you take first position. He breaks off a branch, and hands it to Sandusky, and pushes him out front. Sandusky gives him a look.
lazarus		Your bravery shames us. Sandusky reluctantly starts down the path, tapping for land mines with the branch. The guys follow at a VERY safe distance. EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT AM l u I, I nhy CLOSE. ON Speedman's face. After a beat.a drop of water hits him in the.forehead. Then another. PULL BACK to reveal a pathetic shelter made. out of headphone. wire, and the In Style magazine.' The drip-is now becoming full on RAIN. He clutches an Equal packet and. the Cherry Chapstick. Gently, he puts the chapstick-to his face and takes a tentative bite, as though he were eating human flesh. He then tears open the Equal packet and empties its contents into his hand,.and takes. a lick, savoring every granule. He hears a rustling in the bushes across from him. A rodent? Food? Excited, he pulls out his Bowie knife and begins to stalk his prey. Now another movement behind.the bush, and a flash of. fur... Stealthily, he moves towards it. With cat like quickness, and knife drawn, he lunges onto the bush, A HUGE ROAR is heard...
speedman		Die! Die, you son of a bitch! Die! Speedman deals a death blow. And unleashes a primal VICTORY SCREAM. Spent, he finally gets a good look at his victim: A.small, cute, cuddly PANDA... Speedman looks horrified...
rick		I got the personal attache of Bien Den Phu's ambassador to the United Nations of America delivering a TiVo directly to your bedroom. But the bad news is you gotta sit down and have monkey brains with him or some ceremonial shit for the local paper.
rick		A hooker? You killed a hooker? Calm down, it's fine. This is a no-brainer. Thank GOD you're out of the country.
speedman		No! A Panda! I killed a panda!
rick		You WHAT? Uhy. Heavy shit National Park. Oh jeesus...take a breath.. .did anybody see you?
rick		Chill zone, buddy, 1im thinking. Did anyone see you do this?
speedman		I don't think so. I'm out in.the bush. Alone.
rick		Alright. Listen to me. I want.you to.get your hands on some-bleach, some hydrogen peroxide and some lime. Your gonna wanna cut the body in quarters ... the femurs are gonna be a bitch... that's normal... Speedman'nods eagerly, absorbing it all, not noticing a
speedman		 Alright. P.O.W camp. Scene 67..Bring it on Dorf.
cody		Where are we?
four leaf		In a detention hut. And they got Speedman...
cody		What? Why? We gotta get outta here! Are they gonna kill us? Four Leaf turns on him, grabbing him with one of his hooks.
four leaf		Pull it together private! Shut your trap before you get us killed! You understand me , lilydick? ! Cody backs off, still scared.
byong		What were you doing in our poppy fields?
byong		Who sent you here?
speedman		You bastard.
byong		What? just thought you might like. some...
speedman		Corporal Four Leaf Tayback. And oh. yeah. . .THIS is from my uncle... SAM! He HEAD BUTTS Byong in the face,. sending him reeling into the back wall. Beat.
speedman		 You.ok? You leaned into it, man.orry.
speedman		May God protect you from the mighty arm of the 51st Tropic Thunder to the end! My men will seek you out and mete. out a cruel justice!- Byong and the guards look at him, a bit confused.
sandusky		I think he's dead. A wet fart seeps out of Portnoy.
redykulous		No. Just smells like hens dead. Smelled
lazarus		What's wrong with him?
portnoy		If we can work out some rig to carry m? I think it might subside in a little bit... No one touches him.
lazarus		Alright. Sandusky? Sandusky looks up at him. Is he serious?
sandusky		What?
lazarus		You and Redykulous are gonna have to carry Portnoy. God help you. He marches off.
sandusky		God help me?
redykulous		God help him that bitch ever find his blackface minstrel show ass alone with me in the real world. Redykulous and Sandusky shake their heads and gather up Portnoy on a make shift stretcher.
redykulous		Look! From behind, Sandusky grabs him and forces him to the ground.
sandusky		SHH! Everybody down! The guys hit the dirt. Lazarus crawls up to join them. He pulls out his binoculars, and surveys the scene.
binocular pov		It is the Flaming Dragon compound...
lazarus		"EXT. P.O.W. PRISON CAMP -- DAY"! Oranges and Lemons,,, the bells of St. Clements. Speedman was right. We 'are shooting the movie. Sandusky grabs the binoculars and starts'looking...
lazarus		, How could I be so stupid.
sandusky		I don't think so... . looks to me like some sort of heroin processing plant. Look at the cooking vats, and the guards. Sandusky continues looking through the binoculars.
lazarus		How do you know all,this?
sandusky		It was a long trip. I read the in-flight magazine. We're in the Golden Triangle, the biggest drug producer in the world. Uh-oh.
binocular pov		It is SPEEDMAN, who is being dipped in and out of the water in his bamboo cage, while a bunch of guards stand around and laugh. Whenever he comes up for air, he is
lazarus		What do you see?
sandusky		It doesn't look good. Lazarus grabs the binoculars.
lazarus		Sweet Mother of Jaysus. Suddenly: GUNFIRE ERUPTS ALL AROUND! A BAND OF GUERILLAS have spotted them and are running at them, firing automatic weapons... The guys scream, and start a frantic retreat down the hill. Portnoy suddenly gets well enough to run out of his stretcher for dear life... In fact, he is actually beating them down the hill.. .when suddenly WHUMP! He falls into a PIT!
portnoy		Ow! Fuck Dude! What the fuck?! He screams in pain! Finally, WHUMP!! He disappears into the'hole. REDYKULOUS whistles for the guys to join him, and they all pile into the hole.
hole		Footsteps can be heard above leaving the area. Sandusky lights a match. Portnoy is weeping in pain.
sandusky		Must be one of those underground tunnels. The-cou-ntr-y-is-l-itte-red-with them. Je-f-f must have found one of the entrances,:. Portnoy is on his side in pain, whimpering.
portnoy		My ass...I think I took one in the ass...
sandusky		Lemme see... Sandusky rolls him.over, and off camera, helps him remove his pants... All the guys recoil in horror.
sandusky		How did it get infected so fast? More ad libs of disgust...
portnoy		Hey Dude! What are you doing! Cut it out! That's not the bullet hole. The bullet hole is over here! It dawns on the guys that they have NOT been looking at the bullet hole. Ad-libs of even MORE disgust.
sandusky		OH! my bad. You just got grazed. You're gonna be fine.
speedman		No! Puh-Puh-pulease don't h-h-h-hurt them... I Tran cocks his head curiously. He stops beating him..He signals.for the guards to stop beating the others. A long beat.
tran		Say that. again.,
speedman		Please don't hurt them?I
tran		No...like you did before! Silence.
speedman		Puh-puh-puhlease don't h-h-hurt them? A hush falls over the crowd. Tran'seyes widen.
tran's entourage		Nyam nook snep jawk...
speedman		Please! Excuse me, What are you saying?
tran		Nyam nook snep Jawk!  You are Simple Jack?
speedman		What? You.. You saw Simple Jack?
tran		We love the tale of this man, Simple Jack. Tran snaps his fingers, and an assistant shows Speedman a battered VHS BOX OF SIMPLE JACK. Speedman looks lovingly at it.
tran		We do not have many luxury here. Simple Jack is the only movie we possess. We have watched it many, many times. How is the word? Genius? Speedman smiles big. They smile back at him. It's a small world after all.
bodyguard		 You should have got Oscar.
speedman		Thanks. I mean even just the nomination...
tran		You were nominated?
speedman		No, I mean it is great to.be nominated,.. if you are, or that's what I hear. Whatever. It's a popularity contest. It's totally political, you have to lobby for like a year for it...
tram		SHUT UP NOW. ilia i n nMd
speedman		No problem. So are you going to let me go?
tran		No. We will hold.you,for ransom.--.much more money now.. He pulls out a cell phone.
tram		Is it possible to.have picture?
speedman		Oh, sure, absolutely. Speedman tries to throw an arm around Tran, a guard grabs the arm., and twists it back. Speedman shrieks in pain.
tran		You mustn't touch me. The guard snaps the picture.
abodyguard		That came out really good.
tran		Now, do the movie.
speedman		Excuse me?
tran		Do the movie.
speedman		The whole movie?
tran		Yes. Begin.
speedman		Hey, I know you're big fans and that's
speedman		Aww, puh-puh-Pa! Whu-why you guh-got to muh-muh-make ffffffun of me?
tran		More stupid!
speedman		Awww, puh-puh-paaaa... Tran turns to one of his men
tran		Get him some overalls! And give him the Simple Jack haircut!
sandusky		It looks clear, but I can't be sure. I say we stay in here till it's dark.
redykulous		I can't believe this is how it ends for Redykulous. I'm a triple platinum recording artist., Shit.
portnoy		 I gotta get back to the hotel. I'm not gonna make.it...
sandusky		Forget it. That guard patrol knows we're out'here. They'll be looking for us. Anyway, Speedman's in that compound. And no one else knows but us.
lazarus		That's right. So here's the plan. Everyone leans forward expectantly.
lazarus		We sneak out of here, make our way back to the hotel and once we're safe, we alert the government of Speedman's situation.
redykulous		Sounds good.
sandusky		Whoa whoa whoa ... . wait! So, we're just gonna leave him here?
redykulous		Yeah, and I don't wanna spend another minute getting the full on smell'o vision in this hole with his stinky ass. Everyone agrees. They start packing up. Sandusky looks horrified. SANDUSKY Au II4 WAIT! Look, I don't think I've met a more wildly self involved human than Speedman, but you're just gonna leave him here? I mean, come on. He's a person, guys. These drug lords are killers. I mean, they eat their enemies. We leave him alone now, he doesn't have a chance in hell.
redykulous		Besides, how could we possibly rescue him? Get real, Sandusky, we don't know what the fuck we doing out here.
sandusky		We've gotten this far. Look, we're making a movie about one of the greatest rescues ever. It's a true story,, right? I mean, those guys weren't superheroes! They were just put in extra-ordinary circumstances, and they rose to the occasion.
portnoy		Yeah, but they were trained soldiers. They knew how to take care of themselves.
sandusky		And we don't? They believed they could do it. They believed in each other. Look, I'm not saying it's gonna be easy.
redykulous		You mean, like, not on the same flight? Sandusky just looks at them. They know that is not what he meant.
sandusky		Jeff -- I know this is really hard for you,.but you're gonna have to kick some time, and it might as well be now.  Kirk, I've always admired you as an actor. But as a person, I have to say, not that impressive.' You got a.few Oscars. Got any balls? Lazarus takes this in.
sandusky		Redyk. Whadda.you say? You talk a good game, but how's it gonna feel when you're sipping Cristalle with your homies.in the hot tub back in.Cali knowing you left.a man to die back here? You gonna rhyme about that? , There is a long beat.
redykulous		Shit. I only wish they was filming this for my show. I'm in. He looks to LazaruS.,Lazarus takes a long dramatic pause.. Then...
lazarus		 We could fooster about for donkey's years..Let:'s quit acting the maggot and nix that mentaller. The guys look at each other. What did that mean?
rick		 Chris? What is this craziness?
rick		What's going on? Who is this?
byong		We are Flaming Dragon. Speedman is with us now. There is a long silence as Rick processes this. Then he nods slowly.
rick		Oh. Really. Well I never heard of your little agency. But if you wanna poach my client? Lemme tell you something. His career's been in a death spiral since Simple Jack, so why don't you all go fuck yourselves! Oh, and I bet he hasn't even told you about the whole panda thing! He killed a panda! And next time you're at a cocktail party with Paris Hilton, or at Kate Mantellini's choking down some egg whites with Ron Howard, DON'T LET THAT SLIP, because chances are, I ALREADY DID! Rick slams the phone down.
lazarus		Jaysus! We're too late. They brained him! REDYKULOUS grabs the binoculars. Sees for himself.
redykulous		He's right, man, that ain't right. Messin' with a man's brain.
sandusky		We gotta get him outta there...
portnoy		 I got an idea. Everyone turns to Portnoy.
portnoy		It might be a little crazy, but...
redykulous		Crazy is better than nothin'.
sandusky		What is it?
portnoy		 Back in '98, I did a low budget titty comedy for skinemax, "Sex Camp". Anyway, me and the campers from the uncool camp had to break into the rich girls' camp. So we did it by building a catapult. They shot us over the wall and we parachuted down. The guys all look at each other... then finally:
lazarus		That's the stupidest idea I've ever heard.
sandusky		Yeah. Sorry Portnoy. That's lame. I say we wait till just before dawn and sneak over the fence. Take our chances. You guys ok with that? The group nods in approval.
sandusky		Good. Then let's get some rest. Me and Redyk are on first watch.  I'll wake you in two hours, and we'll switch. They break up. Portnoy comes up to Sandusky, extremely freaked out.
portnoy		I'm not gonna make it.
sandusky		Yes you are.
portnoy		Then you gotta tie me up. I'm serious. Tie me to a tree. No matter how much I scream, or however much-I plead, you.must not untie me. I will be cunning, I will be in pain, and Iwill lie. The devil works this way. I will say, do, and excrete many regrettable things. But.no matter what.. .you must leave me alone. Beat..
sandusky		Okay.. .Lazarus, you heard him. Tie him up. We'll get you through it.
bodyguard		 Jack...I could never go -to the county ho- down with you. I would be laughed out of town. And what would Chet say? The bodyguards laugh woodenly at Speedman.
speedman		B-b-b-b-but I am a G-g-g-ggggoood Dd-d-d- d-dancer. Speedman bows, exhausted and exhilarated. The old women .politely applaud. A new group forms in front of his cage. Speedman stands. He sighs, and begins the movie over again...
speedman		Shu-sure is a puh-puh-purty sssssssunrise, uh-uh-uh-uh-ain't it?
bodyguard		Go do your chores, slowpoke!!
four leaf		That poor bastard. Looks like they coo- coo nested him.
four leaf		What plan?
cody		To get us out of here? Come on man, yoi4 lived this, you gotta have an idea of how we can get out of here? Right? Four Leaf looks a little at a loss...
four leaf		 Sometimes the flowing stream can only move when... the water... dries up.
cody		No offense, but what the hell does that mean?
four leaf		It means I'm,sick of your yappin'!
cody		Come on man, you heard him back there. They wanna off us! We gotta escape! You
four leaf		I gotta what? Take on the whole compound by myself!
cody		Stop it man! You're chokin' me!
cody		AHH! Who the hell are you? Four Leaf looks down, sheepishly.
sandusky		Wow... .look at all those stars. Makes a guy feel pretty small.
redykulous		Yup.
sandusky		Back in LA, we don't get stars like this. I wonder why there are so many here?
redykulous		Man, how can;, you be talking about stars? We might not make it outta here tomorrow.
sandusky		I don't know. I give us pretty good odds. Redykulous looks at'his watch, and lets out a chuckle.
sandusky		What's so funny?
redykulous		Nothin'..
redykulous		I'm just thinking about Lill Kantankerous Bitch.
sandusky		Who?
redykulous		She's a rapper I'm producing, a twelve year old girl. Her first single drops tomorrow and I'm not even gonna be there to see it.
redykulous		I pulled her off the streets six months ago.
sandusky		You did that?
redykulous		Well, not literally, she was trapped in a dead end record deal with Rick Rubin. Didn't even have a lawyer. Huh. And here I am on the other side of the world. About to die for a guy I barely even know. Makes Redykulous wonder what's it all about.
sandusky		Yeah. . .well at least you have someone to think about.
redykulous		You single?
sandusky		Yeah,... .I guess. I dunno. I got a girl. But it's not too serious.
sandusky		I don't think we're in love.
redykulous		Hey, it's cool.. I think you're extremely lovable. Weird silence.
sandusky		What?
redykulous		 I mean like ...like,. I know what you mean. I have love problems myself!
sandusky		.No you don't. What would the great Redykulous, know about Girl Problems. You're ten girls deep 24 hours a day!
redykulous		.That's the problem. Silence.
sandusky		How do you mean?
redykulous		Jeesus, I can't believe I'm gonna tell you this... Beat.
redykulous		I'm... .I like guys.
sandusky		What? But...
redykulous		I know-impossible huh. That's what I say sometimes, but its true. Talk abort living a loveless life. At least you have someone who loves you. I don't even have that.
redykulous		When I think of the nights, alone in my penthouse, when I've longed for the gentle touch of another dude, to feel his skin against mine, or his sweet breath on my face.
sandusky		All this from the same guy who wrote"Niggaz Gotta Bust a Nut on a Ho".
redykulous		Yeah, well, let me let you in on a big secret.
sandusky		So what! You're gay! You're also a great artist and-businessman ... why not rap about that? u I I. 11jm
redykulous		Yeah right. And watch my clothing line, e4 sports drink,jewelry, nutrition, bars, and fragrances go south? It's all such a lie. Now he begins to cry .a. little. Sandusky embraces him.
redykulous		(muffled, crying in his
sandusky		I'm not gonna tell anyone, and your not gonna shoot me... .th-at's it...l-et -tout. Redykulous pulls back, and collects himself.
redykulous		Aww shit...  I can't. believe it's possibly the last day of my life, and I'm not even gonna be able to let my fans know how truly 'Utterly Redykulous I really am.
sandusky		 Listen, I know how utterly Redykulous you are. Even for just.thisone moment. . .and sometimes that enough.
redykulous		Thanks man.
cody		So all of "Tropic Thunder" is bullshit?
four leaf		No! Four Leaf and his men were real, it happened!
cody		Are you even a VET!?
four leaf		YES! Well ...no! I mean, kinds! Yeah! Not exactly. I served honorably in what they called the "forced service". Sanitation Detail at the United States Pentagon.
cody		So you were some two bit criminal who got caught and sentenced to clean toilets at the Pentagon? I IDOLIZED YOU MAN!
four leaf		God-dammit, would you LISTEN! I was a fuckup, sure, but one day as I was cleaning the office of some Top-Brass big- wig, I came across a file headed for the shredder marked top secret. It was Four Leaf Tayback's file. A nobody. No family. Nothing. Killed in Action. They were gonna bury the whole thing. Total black op.
cody		So you decided to take his identity?
four leaf		NO! I gave him one! I wrote the story And I gave the American people a hero! Yes, I am not technically Four Leaf, but if I didn't pretend to be him then nobody woulda ever known who he was! See what I'm sayin'?
cody		And you cashed in!
four leaf		I was a fuck up my whole life! This guy had a story worth-telling, and nobody woulda ever known! Cody slumps in the corner, looking spent and lost.
four leaf		I'm sorry, man.. I'm responsible: for this .whole mess.
portnoy		I'm clean! I'M CLEAN!!!!! He struggles to his feet, doing a celebratory dance. He immediately gets nauseous again and heaves.
portnoy		 My ' life .be_gins today!
speedman		Chris Michael Speedman.
speedman		Well, I guess that really varies from project to project-- Byong SCREAMS at Speedman, who cowers. Even Rick flinches.
speedman		Yes! I work for you!
peck		Get this yutzle on the phone. Now.
byong		Yes.
rick		I saw your 'little fax, Flaming Fuckwads. I bet you thought I was just. going to lie here and take it. Well, wrong! My name is Rick Peck, not Rick Shaw,..and you are not gonna take me.for a ride, you industrious fuck; I don't care who you people think you are, but I am coming. there, and I am going to jack you up! I am bringing the heavy artillery, my friend, so you'd better be prepared for a blood bath.! I am walking out of there with Chris Speedman whether you, or he, likes it or.not! Rick slams down the phone, enjoying himself.
rick		Shandra, get tech support to put a trace on this email attachment, let's find out where this "Flaming Dragon" agency is! Call the travel department. See if they got a nonstop to Bien-Ben-Wherever-the fuck-it-is!
sandusky		This is it. You know what you need to do.' Tropic Thunder on three, two, one...
hallway		Sandusky moves silently toward a door. He kicks it'open to reveal...
speedman		Shackled to the floor. Delirious, he sits bolt upright.
speedman		You mu-mu-make me ha-aa-ppy.
sandusky		Oh sweet Jesus. Hold tight, Buddy! I'll be right back! Sandusky runs off to get the guys.
hallway		Sandusky rounds up Redyk and Lazarus, points to both of his eyes, signalling that he's got "eyes",on Speedman. They take a step in that direction. Redykulous stops them, and makes a made up, absurd signal for "Where is Portnoy?", somehow trying to mime looking for a fat guy. No one knbws what he is doing.
sandusky		Shhh! A muffled, anguished animal noise that could only be PORTNOY emanates from a nearby door. They run towards it. Redykulous kicks it in.
heroin heaven		The 'gang flies in, to discover Portnoy holding the bags, crying.
redykulous		What are you doing, man!
sandusky		Come on, let's go! We found Speedmani
portnoy		I don't care! It doesn't matter what I do! I'll always be a screw-up! No one will ever respect me...
redykulous		That's not true! Listen, back in the day, I used to think I couldn't produce a record simply because...
sandusky		.he's gay. Uh-oh. That's not what Redykulous was about to say. Beat.
redykulous		Actually I was going to say poor.
sandusky		Sorry...
lazarus		Listen.. .Don't be crazy Portnoy --you're not a fuck up. You'make millions of people laugh!
portnoy		You said my farts made them laugh! Leave me ALONE!!
heroin room		The guys hear the guards enter the far side of the room. They can't see the guys through the.shelves packed with heroin packets.
sandusky		Damnit! We need to go!
portnoy		No, I can't do it.  I need it! I need it!! This'is all I deserve.
redykulous		Come on, man... And.the guards emerge. around a corner! They jab their rifles.at:the guys and SCREAM AT THEM TO PUT THEIR HANDS
cody		What?
four leaf		Something's happening! Get me the hooks!
heroin room		Portnoy watches as the white faced guards fall to their knees, choking and groggy. After a beat, they collapse.
portnoy		Let's move! We got about sixteen hours before they wake up! They run out.
speedman's cell		The guys run in. Redykulous breaks the lock off Speedman's ankle with his rifle butt. Sandusky keeps watch by the door.,
speedman		Muh-my nnnname is Juh-Jack. Some folks call muh-me Simple Juh-Jack.
redykulous		What's wrong with him?
sandusky		I think he thinks he's Simple Jack. Like from the movie?
redykulous		I heard that movie was good.
sandusky		Can you fix him?!
lazarus		I'll try. Lazarus takes Speedman's face in his hands, forces him to look at him.
lazarus		.You're Chris Michael Speedman!
speedman		Ah 1-1-likes pie.
lazarus		You're the greatest star in the world! There's a flicker of intelligence in Speedman's eyes. It passes.
cody		By the way, what's your name anyway?
four leaf		Marvin Kaminsky.
cody		you ever been in this jungle?
four leaf		Nope. First time outta the states actually. He shoots off a round and they run for cover.
lazarus		The world needs you! It` needs its stars! You make people forget how awful and 1 I Ii I. 1 ,14M depressing their lives are! People love your work! And... I love your work, too. Speedman is quiet.
lazarus		Simple Jack was magnificent!
sandusky		Is it working?
lazarus		JESUS! Give me time, Sandusky! I'm not re- programming a VCR!!  You really committed yourself. And for that you DESERVED AN OSCAR! Speedman registers this.
lazarus		 You know who you are... . you do Chris. Long beat.
lazarus		Unlike me. What am I doing? I can't do this. How can I convince a man he is who we know he is, when I can't even convince myself of the same thing. He lets go of Speedman, and begins to break down.
redykulous		Yo, c'mon, man! Why is everybody gettin'. so insecure alla a sudden?! You're Kirk Lazarus! You're like the greatest actor in the motherfuckin' world!
sandusky		Guys, let's go, we gotta get outta here! I it I. 11h.4%
lazarus		Am I Redykulous? ... AM I!...Or.am I just acting like that's who I am? No. The sad fact is... I'm not Sergeant Osiris. . .or Father O'Malley ...or' Neil .Armstrong. I'm not even .Kirk Lazarus.  I have no idea who I am. The guys look at him... it's the first time he has let his guard down.
sandusky		Kirk, this is NOT the time!
lazarus		And I guess when you-do themath... .and boil it all down, I've invented myself so many times... .became so many people... .that at the end of the.day...I'm
redykulousi		Bull-s-hit! Y-ou-l-isten to-me .-.-Y-ou-a-r-e-who you want to be, and you-have to OWN. THAT! Look at me! I'm GAY and, I'm proud! He winks at Sandusky.
redykulous		That's right! We're.not what we're called, or who we pretend to be. We are what we are in our hearts. And to me, looking into your heart, you're a hero.. Lazarus looks to Redykulous.
lazarus		You mean that?
redykulous		.Yup.
speedman		And I'll second that. They all'turn to see...SPEEDMAN. The million-dollar smile is back!
speedman		Now let's get the hell outta here! Speedman leads the men to the door. Sandusky tosses Speedman'a machine gun.
speedman		Thanks Kevin.
sandusky		My name...you remembered my name. You gotta show us the way outta here Chris.
speedman		Follow me. This time they do...
hallway		The guys run toward the opening to the courtyard, Speedman leading the way...
speedman		That's their supply chopper.
sandusky		If we could create a diversion, we could get to that jeep and drive it right over there...
portnoy		Anybody here know how to fly a helicopter? Cause that would come in, handy too.
speedman		You want a diversion? I'll give you a diversion. Is this baby loaded? He holds up the machine gun...
sandusky		Yeah, but... And with'that, Speedman runs out in to the courtyard,.. the opposite direction from the jeep, doing a CRAZY WAR'
sandusky		 .they're blanks... There is a long moment of silence as the guards just stare at Speedman. He seems a. bit surprised that. they are not dead,. as do the guards themselves. They cock their weapons, about to shoot him when.,.. A HAIL OF-BULLET FIRE-erupts-behind-the-gu-ards... They turn...WE REVEAL CODY AND FOUR LEAF BEHIND THEM, THEIR
sandusky		Let's move! The.guys jump into the jeep, Sandusky at the wheel, and 'gun it..
sandusky		Chris, come.on! Speedman jumps. into the jeep as it passes by. They are speeding toward the helipad.
speedman		Four Leaf! Effects guy! Come on!!
sandusky		Get in the Jeep!
four leaf		You go... I got real bullets! I'll cover you.. It's the only way you'll make it!
cody		Marvin, you gotta --
four leaf		Just go!! Sandusky looks at Speedman... they both know he's right. They go... leaving Four Leaf in the dust, still firing... The jeep speeds up to the helipad... the guys jump out. Just as the last guy is out...
sandusky		Start the chopper now Cody! Cody nods, getting his bearings... and hitting the ignition...the BLADES SLOWLY HUM TO LIFE, BEGINNING TO TURN... Portnoy grabs Cody's gun and hangs by the runner, shooting towards approaching guards...
speedman		It's him...
speedman's pov		FOUR LEAF... much-like.Speedman playing him in the beginning of the. movie... Arms extended, his body riddled with bullets...
speedman		Cover me! Speedman runs towards Four Leaf, through a hailstorm of bullets...PORTNOY AND THE GUYS PROVIDE AS MUCH COVER AS
four leaf		Go on...get outta here. I'm worm food, you dig?
four leaf		I ain't Four Leaf, Chris. We're in this mess because of me.
speedman		 How did you get hands?
four leaf		I ain't never been worth a nothin'...and it's too late to start bein' a somethin' now. Speedman tries to understand. He is welling up with emotion.. .real emotion.
speedman		Don't you die on me! Don't you... And his weeping continues. He then looks up. to see:
hilary swank		And the Oscar goes to...Chris,Michael Speedman as himself in ".PLAYING HOOKY
announcer		This is Chris Michael Speedman's first Oscar. He joins four time Oscar winner Kirk Lazarus, tonight's Best Supporting Actor winner for the role of Marvin Kaminsky... And we FREEZE on Speedman and Lazarus, grinning eat to ear, arms' around each other, awards in hand...
peck		Ok, look, you wanna go through this again, let's do it. I see more for you than this. This whole 'big fish in the little scary jungle pond' thing. I see you as a front man, as a leader, not just of this little rebel guerilla warrior group. I see it big picture. Is it music, is it movies? Is it a series on Fox? I don't know. But I do know it is not happening with you staring at me doing my "I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings" routine for you and the peanut gallery for another six months. It's old school already. TRAN and some HENCHMEN watch, unamused. Tran nods, one of the henchmen turns a handle which lowers the cage into the water. After a moment, it comes back up with a soaking Peck.
peck		 And it makes me sad to see you chomping on the stogie and you're not even fourteen or whatever. I'm thinking "what hole does that need to fill, that you have to keep dipping me into the water to somehow feel better about yourself?" I can be a partner to you, not just a captive.
peck		Obviously not. Dare I bring up.a sore subject. Can we do a little business on the blackberry privileges? Cause you're killing me here.
****Dialogues from script :True_Grit.txt****

voice-over		People do not give it credence that a young girl could leave home and go off in the wintertime to avenge her father's blood, but it did happen.
voice-over		You might say, what business was it of my father's to meddle? My answer is this: he was trying to do that short devil a good turn. He was his brother's keeper. Does that answer your question?
voice		 Is that the man?
yarnell		Lord lord.
mattie		That is my father. 3 Undertaker If you would loik to kiss him it would be all roight.
mattie		Tell mama not to sign anything until I return home and see that Papa is buried in his mason's apron.
undertaker		Here? Among these people?
mattie		These people?
undertaker		I am expecting three more souls. Sullivan, Smith, and His Tongue In The Rain.
mattie		How is it that you know in advance?
man		Ladies and gentlemen beware and train up your children in the way that they should go! You see what has become of me because of drink. I killed a man in a trifling quarrel over a pocketknife.
mattie		Can you point out the sheriff?
woman		Him with the mustaches.
man		Well, I killed the wrong man is the which-of-why I'm here. Had I killed the man I meant to I don't believe I would a been convicted. I see men out there in that crowd is worse than me.
indian		I would like to say--
man		Oh, Sullivan must'er lost weight in prison! His neck ain't broke!
voice		Hot tamales?
sheriff		No, we ain't arrested him. Ain't caught up to him, he lit out for the Territory. I would think he has throwed in with Lucky Ned Pepper, whose gang robbed a mail hack yesterday on the Poteau River.
mattie		Why are you not looking for him?
sheriff		I have no authority in the Indian Nation. Tom Chaney is the business of the U.S. marshals now.
mattie		When will they arrest him?
sheriff		Not soon I am afraid. The marshals are not well staffed and, I will tell you frankly, Chaney is at the end of a long list of 7 fugitives and malefactors.
mattie		Could I hire a marshal to pursue Tom Chaney?
sheriff		You have a lot of experience with bounty hunters?
mattie		My answer is this: That is a silly question. I am here to settle my father's affairs.
sheriff		All alone?
mattie		I am the person for it. Mama was never any good at sums and she can hardly spell cat. I intend to see papa's killer hanged.
sheriff		I see. Well. Nothing prevents you from offering a reward, or from so informing a marshal. It would have to be real money, though, to be persuasive. Chaney is across the river in the Choctaw Nation--lawless country. It will not be a daisy-picking expedition. Upwards of three-score US marshals have been slaughtered in the Territory.
mattie		I will see to the money. Who's the best marshal?
sheriff		I would have to weigh that proposition. I reckon William Waters is the best tracker. He is half Comanche and it is something to see him cut for sign. The meanest one is Rooster Cogburn. He is a pitiless man, double tough and fear don't enter into his thinking. He loves to pull a cork. The best is probably L.T. Quinn, he brings his prisoners in alive. He may let one get by now and again but he believes even the worst of men is entitled to a fair shake. Quinn is a good peace officer and a lay preacher to boot. He will not plant evidence or abuse a prisoner. He is as straight as string. Yes, I will say Quinn is about the best they have. 8
mattie		Where can I find this Rooster?
voice		The jakes is occupied.
mattie		I know it is occupied Mr. Cogburn. As I said, I have business with you.
voice		I have prior business.
mattie		You have been at it for quite some time, Mr. Cogburn.
voice		 There is no clock on my business! To hell with you! To hell with you! How did you stalk me here?!
mattie		The sheriff told me to look in the saloon. In the saloon they referred me here. We must talk.
voice		 Women ain't allowed in the saloon!
mattie		I was not there as a customer. I am fourteen years old.
voice		 The jakes is occupied. And will be for some time.
ross		Yell County Hold at station
undertaker		You can sleep in a coffin if you loik.
mattie		Not. . . yet.
street		10 Mattie strides along, looking at facades. She stops, looking at the signage on a barnlike building:
mattie		How much are you paying for cotton?
stonehill		Nine and a half for low middling and ten for ordinary.
mattie		We got most of ours out early and sold it to Woodson Brothers in Little Rock for eleven cents.
stonehill		Then I suggest you take the balance of it to the Woodson Brothers.
mattie		We took the balance to Woodson. We got ten and a half.
stonehill		Why did you come here to tell me this?
mattie		I thought we might shop around up here next year but I guess we are doing all right in Little Rock. I am Mattie Ross, daughter of Frank Ross.
stonehill		A tragic thing. May I say your father impressed me with his manly qualities. He was a close trader but he acted the gentleman. 11 Mattie I propose to sell those ponies back to you that my father bought.
stonehill		That, I fear, is out of the question. I will see that they are shipped to you at my earliest convenience.
mattie		We don't want the ponies now. We don't need them.
stonehill		Well that hardly concerns me. Your father bought those five ponies and paid for them and there is an end of it. I have the bill of sale.
mattie		And I want three hundred dollars for Papa's saddle horse that was stolen from your stable.
stonehill		You will have to take that up with the man who stole the horse.
mattie		Tom Chaney stole the horse while it was in your care. You are responsible.
stonehill		I admire your sand but I believe you will find that I am not liable for such claims.
mattie		You were custodian. If you were a bank and were robbed you could not simply tell the depositors to go hang.
stonehill		I do not entertain hypotheticals, the world as it is is vexing enough. Secondly, your valuation of the horse is high by about two hundred dollars. How old are you? 12 Mattie If anything my price is low. Judy is a fine racing mare. She has won purses of twenty-five dollars; I have seen her jump an eight-rail fence with a heavy rider. I am fourteen.
stonehill		Hmm. Well, that's all very interesting. The ponies are yours, take them. Your father's horse was stolen by a murderous criminal. I had provided reasonable protection for the creature as per our implicit agreement. My watchman had his teeth knocked out and can take only soup. We must each bear his own misfortunes.
mattie		I will take it to law.
stonehill		You have no case.
mattie		Lawyer J. Noble Daggett of Dardanelle, Arkansas may think otherwise--as might a jury, petitioned by a widow and three small children.
stonehill		Where is your mother?
mattie		She is at home in Yell County looking after my sister Victoria and my brother Little Frank.
stonehill		I cannot make an agreement with a minor child. You are not accountable.
mattie		Lawyer Dagget will back up any decision I make, you may rest easy on that score. You can confirm any agreement by telegraph.
stonehill		I will pay two hundred dollars to your father's estate when I have in my hand a letter from your lawyer absolving me of 13 all liability from the beginning of the world to date. The offer is more than liberal and I make it only to avoid the possibility of troublesome litigation.
stonehill		A what? All right, now listen very carefully as I will not bargain further. I will take the ponies back and keep the gray horse which is mine and settle for three hundred dollars. Now you must take that or leave it and I do not much care which it is.
mattie		Lawyer Daggett would not wish me to consider anything under three hundred twenty-five dollars. But I will settle for three hundred and twenty if I am given the twenty in advance. And here is what I have to say about the saddle--
mrs. floyd		Frank Ross's daughter. My poor child. My poor child.
mattie		You have my father's traps?
mrs. floyd		Oh yes we do. My poor child. Are you gawna be stayin with us or are you hurrying home to your mother?
mattie		I am staying briefly. I have business with Marshal Rooster Cogburn. I found him in his cups today but I understand he's to be in court tomorrow, testifying. I mean to engage him to hunt down Tom Chaney. 15 Mrs. Floyd Well god bless him for that. The tariff here is seventy-five cents for room and supper. That does not include your daytime eats.
mattie		Very well.
mrs. floyd		Your father owed for two days, god bless him.
mattie		Oh. Well.
mrs. floyd		You'll share a room with Grandma Turner. We've had to double up, what with all the people in town come to see the hanging Judge Parker's put on for us.
mattie		Yes, I witnessed the hanging myself.
mrs. floyd		Was it a good'n?
mrs. floyd		This was in the poor man's room. This is everything, there are no light fingers in this house. If you need something for to tote the gun around I will give you an empty flour sack for a nickel.
cogburn		The woman was out in the yard dead with blowflies on her face and the old man was inside with his breast blowed open by a scatter-gun and his feet burned. He was still alive but just was. He said them two Wharton boys had done it, rode up drunk--
mr. goudy		Objection. Hearsay.
mr. barlow		Dying declaration, your honor.
judge		Overruled. Procede, Mr. Cogburn.
cogburn		Them two Wharton boys--that'd be Odus and C.C.-- throwed down on him, asked him where his money was, when he wouldn't talk lit pine knots and held 'em to his feet. He told 'em in a fruit jar under a gray rock at one corner of the smokehouse. 17 Mr. Barlow And then?
cogburn		. . . Shot or killed?
mr. goudy		Let us restrict it to "killed" so that we may have a manageable figure.
cogburn		Immediate, or--
cogburn		Why would I do that?
mr. goudy		You did not drag his body over to the fire? Fling his arm in?
cogburn		No sir.
mr. goudy		Two witnesses who arrived on the scene will testify to the location of the body. You do not remember moving the body? So it was a bushwack, as he tended his campfire?
mr. barlow		Objection.
cogburn		I, if that was where the body was I might have moved him. I do not remember.
mr. goudy		Why would you move the body, Mr. Cogburn?
cogburn		Them hogs rooting around might have moved him. I do not remember.
cogburn		Son of a goddamn bitch.
mattie		Rooster Cogburn?
cogburn		What is it. 24
mattie		I would like to talk with you a minute.
cogburn		What is it.
mattie		They tell me you are a man with true grit.
cogburn		What do you want, girl? Speak up. It is suppertime.
mattie		Let me do that.
cogburn		What is your name, girl?
mattie		My name is Mattie Ross. We are located in Yell County. My mother is at home looking after my sister Victoria and my brother Little Frank.
cogburn		You had best go home to them. They will need help with the churning.
mattie		There is a fugitive warrant out for Chaney. The government will pay you two dollars for bringing him in plus ten cents a mile for each of you. On top of that I will pay you a fifty- dollar reward.
cogburn		What are you?  What've you got there in your poke?
mattie		I intend to kill Tom Chaney with it if the law fails to do so.
cogburn		Well, that piece will do the job--if you can find a high stump to rest it on and a wall to put behind you.
mattie		Nobody here knew my father and I am afraid nothing much is going to be done about Chaney except I do it. My brother is a child and my mother is indecisive and hobbled by grief.
cogburn		I don't believe you have fifty dollars.
mattie		I will shortly. I have a contract with Colonel Stonehill which he will make payment on tomorrow or the next day, once a lawyer countersigns.
cogburn		I don't believe fairy tales or sermons or stories about money, baby sister. But thank you for the cigarette.
landlady		Isn't your mother expecting you home, dear? I did not think to see you this evening.
mattie		My business is not yet finished. Mrs. Floyd, have any rooms opened up? Grandma Turner. . . the bed is quite narrow.
landlady		The second-floor back did open up but the gentleman on the porch has just taken it. But don't worry yourself, dear--you are not disturbing Grandma Turner.
cowboy		You are sleeping the day away. 27
mattie		I am not well.
cowboy		You do not look well. My name is LeBoeuf. I have just come from Yell County.
mattie		We have no rodeo clowns in Yell County.
leboeuf		A saucy line will not get you far with me. I saw your mother yesterday morning. She says for you to come right on home.
mattie		Hm. What was your business there?
leboeuf		This is a man I think you know.
mattie		Why did you not catch him in Monroe, Louisiana or Pine Bluff, Arkansas? 28 LeBoeuf He is a crafty one.
mattie		I thought him slow-witted myself.
leboeuf		That was his act.
mattie		It was a good one. Are you some kind of law?
leboeuf		That's right. I am a Texas Ranger.
mattie		That may make you a big noise in that state; in Arkansas you should mind that your Texas trappings and title do not make you an object of fun. Why have you been ineffectually pursuing Chaney?
leboeuf		He shot and killed a state senator named Bibbs down in Waco, Texas. The Bibbs family have put out a reward.
mattie		How came Chaney to shoot a state senator?
leboeuf		My understanding is there was an argument about a dog. Do you know anything about where Chaney has gone?
mattie		He is in the Territory, and I hold out little hope for you earning your bounty.
leboeuf		Why is that?
mattie		My man will beat you to it. I have hired a deputy marshal, 29 the toughest one they have, and he is familiar with the Lucky Ned Pepper gang that they say Chaney has tied up with.
leboeuf		Well, I will throw in with you and your marshal.
mattie		No. Marshal Cogburn and I are fine.
leboeuf		It'll be to our mutual advantage. Your marshal I presume knows the Territory; I know Chaney. It is at least a two-man job taking him alive.
mattie		When Chaney is taken he is coming back to Fort Smith to hang. I am not having him go to Texas to hang for shooting some senator.
leboeuf		Haw-haw! It is not important where he hangs, is it?
mattie		It is to me. Is it to you?
leboeuf		It means a great deal of money to me. It's been many months' work.
mattie		I'm sorry that you are paid piecework not on wages, and that you have been eluded the winter long by a halfwit. Marshal Cogburn and I are fine.
leboeuf		You give out very little sugar with your pronouncements. While I sat there watching you I gave some thought to stealing a kiss, though you are very young and sick and unattractive to boot, but now I have a mind to give you five or six good licks with my belt.
landlady		Try some Dr. Underwood's. You may feel giddy but do not be alarmed as that is only the medicine working.
landlady		I will charge you ten cents. It probably means a loss for me, but it is hard to figure the exact proportion of the bottle. . .
post office		32 The door bangs open at the cut and Mattie emerges with an envelope.
letter		Mattie. I wish you would leave these matters entirely to me, or at the very least do me the courtesy of consulting me before entering such agreements. I am not scolding you, but I am saying your headstrong ways will lead you into a tight corner one day. I trust the enclosed document will let you conclude your business and return to Dardanelle. Your mother is in a panic and begging me to fetch you back home. Yours, J. Noble Dagget.
mattie		I was as bad yesterday as you look today. I was forced to share a bed with Grandma Turner.
stonehill		I am not acquainted with Grandma Turner. If she is a resident of this city it does not surprise me that she carries disease. I was told this malarial place was to be the Chicago of the Southwest. Well, my little friend, it is not the Chicago of the Southwest. I cannot rightly say what it is, but it has ruined my health as it has my finances.
mattie		You have not traded poorly.
stonehill		Certainly not. I am paying you for a horse I do not possess and have bought back a string of useless ponies I cannot sell again.
mattie		You are forgetting the gray horse.
stonehill		Crowbait.
mattie		You are looking at the thing in the wrong light.
stonehill		I am looking at it in the light of God's eternal truth.
mattie		Your illness is putting you "down in the dumps." You will soon find a buyer for the ponies.
stonehill		I have a tentative offer of ten dollars per head from the Pfitzer Soap Works of Little Rock.
mattie		It would be a shame to destroy such spirited horseflesh.
stonehill		So it would. I am confident the deal will fall through.
mattie		Look here. I need a pony. I will pay ten dollars for one of them. 34 Stonehill No. That was lot price. No no. Wait a minute. Are we trading again? I just handed you twenty dollars each for those ponies and you now propose to buy one back for ten? Little girl: I will give you ten dollars to refrain from doing any more business here. It would be the most astute deal I have struck in Arkansas.
mattie		This one is beautiful.
stableboy		He don't know they's a person up there. You too light.
stableboy		He thinks he got a horsefly on him.
stableboy		Das a good name.
mattie		What does he like for a treat?
stableboy		Ma'am, he is a horse, so he likes apples.
mattie		Thank Mr. Stonehill for me.
stableboy		No ma'am. . . I ain't s'posed to utter your name.
chinese		See. Sleep.
mattie		That is fine. I will wake him.
chinese		Won't like. 36
mattie		Mr. Cogburn, it is I. Mattie Ross, your employer.
rooster		Whuh.
mattie		How long til you are ready to go?
rooster		Go whar?
mattie		Into the Indian Territory. In pursuit of Tom Chaney.
rooster		Whah. . .
grocer		Toad her no good!
mattie		I said fifty dollars to retrieve Chaney. You did not believe me?
rooster		Well, I did not know. You are a hard one to figure.
mattie		How long for you to make ready to depart?
rooster		Well now wait now, sis. I remember your offer but do not remember agreeing to it. If I'm going up against Ned Pepper I will need a hundred dollars. I can tell you that much. Hundred dollars! I am not pursuing his gang through Arkansas, where there is law, and the criminal is out of his element. They are in the Territory, in their element, where there is no law and the marshal stands alone.
mattie		You are trying to take advantage of me.
rooster		I am giving you the children's rate. I am not a sharper, I am an old man sleeping in a rope bed in a room behind a Chinese grocery. I should burn this damn thing. It is no good for my back, sister. I have nothing.
mattie		You want to be kept in whiskey.
rooster		I don't have to buy that, I confiscate it. I am an officer of the court.
mattie		I shall not niggle. Can we depart this afternoon?
rooster		We?!
mattie		You misjudge me if you think I am silly enough to give you fifty dollars and simply watch you ride off.
rooster		I am a bonded U.S. marshal!
mattie		That weighs but little with me. I will see the thing done.
rooster		You never said anything about this. I cannot go up against Ned Pepper and a band of hard men and look after a baby at the same time.
mattie		I am not a baby.
rooster		I will not be stopping at boarding houses with warm beds and plates of hot grub on the table. It will be traveling fast and eating light. What little sleeping is done will take place on the ground.
mattie		I have slept out at night. Papa took me and Little Frank coon hunting last summer on the Petit Jean. We were in the woods all night. We sat around a big fire and Yarnell told ghost stories. We had a good time.
rooster		Coon hunting! This ain't no coon hunt, it don't come within forty miles of being a coon hunt! 39
mattie		It is the same idea as a coon hunt. You are just trying to make your work sound harder than it is. Here is the money. I aim to get Tom Chaney and if you are not game I will find somebody who is game. All I have heard out of you so far is talk. I know you can drink whiskey and snore and spit and wallow in filth and bemoan your station. The rest has been braggadocio. They told me you had grit and that is why I came to you. I am not paying for talk. I can get all the talk I need and more at the Monarch Boarding House.
rooster		Leave the money. Meet me here tomorrow morning at seven o'clock and we will begin our coon hunt.
mattie		Dearest Mother. I am about to embark on a great adventure. Or dare I call it a mission, for shall any of us rest easy ere Papa's death is avenged? My investigations in Fort Smith lead me to believe that Tom Chaney can be found and brought to justice, and I have made arrangements to that end. I will return to you once I have seen them properly carried through. . .
mattie		But do not worry on my account. Though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil. The author of all things watches over me. And I have a fine horse. Kiss Little Frankie for me and pinch Violet's cheek. I am off for the Choctaw Nation.
mattie		Where is Marshal Cogburn!
grocer		Went away. . .
mattie		Away! Where?
mattie		Here inside is a train ticket for your return home. Use it. By the time you read this I will be across the river in the Indian nation. Pursuit would be futile. I will return with your man Chaney. Leave me to my work. Reuben Cogburn.
mattie		Is that Marshal Cogburn?
ferryman		That is the man.
mattie		Who's he with?
ferryman		I do not know.
mattie		Take me across.
ferryman		So you're the runaway. Marshal told me you'd show up. I'm to present you to the sheriff.
mattie		That is a story. Let go my horse. I have business across the river.
ferryman		Name ain't Slim.
mattie		Run, Little Blackie!
ferryman		Hey!
mattie		Good, Little Blackie!
rooster		That's quite a horse.
mattie		From the money you stole from me?
rooster		That was not stolen. I'm out for your man.
mattie		I was to accompany you. If I do not, there is no agreement and my money was stolen.
leboeuf		Marshal, put this child back on the ferry. We have a long road, and time is a-wasting.
mattie		If I go back, it is to the office of the U.S. marshals to report the theft of my money. And futile, Marshal Cogburn-- "Pursuit would be futile"?--is not spelt f-u-d-e-l.
leboeuf		Little sister, it is time for your spanking.
mattie		Help me, Marshal!
leboeuf		 Now you do as the grown-ups say! Or I will get myself a birch switch and stripe your leg!
leboeuf		Now we will see what tune you sing!
mattie		Are you going to let him do this, Marshal?
rooster		No, I don't believe I will. Put your switch away, LeBoeuf. She has got the best of us.
leboeuf		She has not got the best of me!
rooster		 Did you not hear me? That will do, I said. 45
leboeuf		I aim to finish what I started.
rooster		That will be the biggest mistake you ever made, you Texas brush-popper.
leboeuf		Hoorawed by a little girl.
leboeuf		I am not accustomed to so large a fire. In Texas, we will make do with a fire of little more than twigs or buffalo chips to heat the night's ration of beans.
rooster		He has a store.
leboeuf		A store. That makes him an authority on movements in the Territory?
rooster		We have entered a wild place. Anyone coming in, wanting any kind of supply, cannot pick and choose his portal.
leboeuf		That is a piece of foolishness. All the snakes are asleep this time of year.
rooster		They have been known to wake up.
mattie		Let me have a rope too.
rooster		A snake would not bother you.
mattie		I am not going down there again. If you want any more water you can fetch it yourself. 47 Rooster Everyone in my party must do his job.
leboeuf		You are lucky to be traveling in a place where a spring is so handy. In my country you can ride for days and see no ground water. I have lapped filthy water from a hoofprint and was glad to have it.
rooster		If I ever meet one of you Texas waddies that says he never drank water from a horse track I think I will shake his hand and give him a Daniel Webster cigar.
leboeuf		You don't believe it?
rooster		I believed it the first twenty-five times I heard it. Maybe it is true. Maybe lapping water off the ground is Ranger policy.
leboeuf		You are getting ready to show your ignorance now, Cogburn. I don't mind a little personal chaffing but I won't hear anything against the Ranger troop from a man like you.
rooster		How long have you boys been mounted on sheep down there?
leboeuf		My shaggy horse will be galloping when that big American stud of yours is winded and collapsed. Now make another joke about it. You are only trying to put on a show for this girl Mattie with what you must think is a keen tongue.
rooster		This is like women talking.
leboeuf		Yes, that is the way! Make me out foolish in this girl's eyes. 48 Rooster I think she has got you pretty well figured.
mattie		Would you two like to hear the story of "The Midnight Caller"? One of you will have to be "The Caller." I will tell you what to say. I will do all the other parts myself.
mattie		Good morning, Marshal.
rooster		 Morning.
mattie		Where is Mr. LeBoeuf?
rooster		Down the hill. Performing his necessaries.
mattie		Marshal Cogburn, I welcome the chance for a private parley. I gather that you and Mr. LeBoeuf have come to some sort of agreement. As your employer I believe I have a right to know the particulars. 49 Rooster The particulars is that we bring Chaney in to the magistrate in San Saba Texas where they have a considerable reward on offer. Which we split.
mattie		I did not want him brought to Texas, to have Texas punishment administered for a Texas crime. That was not our agreement.
rooster		What you want is to have him caught and punished.
mattie		I want him to know he is being punished for killing my father.
rooster		You can let him know that. You can tell him to his face. You can spit on him and make him eat sand out of the road. I will hold him down. If you want I will flay the flesh off the soles of his feet and find you an Indian pepper to rub into the wound. Isn't that a hundred dollars' value?
mattie		It is not. When I have bought and paid for something I will have my way. Why do you think I am paying you if not to have my way?
rooster		It is time for you to learn you cannot have your way in every little particular. Other people have their interests.
mattie		Little Blackie and I are riding back to the U.S. marshals' office. This is fraud. 50
rooster		God damn it!
leboeuf		What's going on?
rooster		 This is a business conversation.
leboeuf		Is that what you call it. It sounds to me like you are still being hoorawed by a little girl.
rooster		Did you say hooraw!
leboeuf		That was the word.
rooster		I will show you hooraw!
mattie		There is no hoorawing in it. My agreement with the Marshal antedates yours. It has the force of law.
leboeuf		 The force of law! This man is a notorious thumper! He rode by the light of the moon with Quantrill and Bloody Bill Anderson!
rooster		Those men was patriots, Texas trash!
leboeuf		They murdered women and children in Lawrence, Kansas.
rooster		I have heard that too. It is a damned lie! What army was you in, mister? 51
leboeuf		I was at Shreveport first with Kirby-Smith--
rooster		What side was you on?
leboeuf		I was in the army of Northern Virginia, Cogburn, and I don't have to hang my head when I say it!
rooster		If you had served with Captain Quantrill--
leboeuf		Captain Quantrill indeed!
rooster		You had best let this go, LeBoeuf!
leboeuf		Captain of what!
rooster		Good, then! There are not sufficient dollars in the state of Texas to make it worth my while to listen to your opinions, day and night. Our agreement is nullified--it's each man for himself!
leboeuf		That suits me!
rooster		 We'll miss his Sharp's carbine. It's apt to get lively out here.
indian youth		Hey.
rooster		Call that sport, do ya?
rooster		Stay here sister. I will see Bagby.
mattie		Has Chaney been here? 53 Rooster No.
rooster		But Coke Hayes was, two days ago. Coke runs with Lucky Ned. He bought supplies, with this.
mattie		This is Papa's gold piece! Tom Chaney, here we come!
rooster		It is not the world's only California gold piece.
mattie		They are rare, here.
rooster		They are rare. But if it is Chaney's, it could just as easily mean that Lucky Ned and his gang fell upon him, as that he fell in with them. Chaney could be a corpse. These are a rough lot.
mattie		That would be a bitter disappointment, Marshal. What do we do?
rooster		We pursue. Ned is unfinished business for the marshals anyhow, and when we have him we will also have Chaney --or we can learn the whereabouts of his body. Bagby doesn't know which way they went, but now we know they come through here, they couldn't be going but one of two ways: north toward the Winding Stair Mountains, or pushing on further west. I suspect north. There is more to rob.
youth		Mr. Ferrington will want to know who cut loose his mule.
rooster		Tell him it was Mr. James, a bank examiner from Clay County, Missouri.
youth		The James boys is said to be slight, Frank and Jesse both.
rooster		One of them has grown fat. The mule will not range far. You boys mend your ways or I will return some dark night and cut off one of your heads--I do not say which--and leave it on the stomach of the other as a warning.
rooster		Potter and I served with him at Elkhorn Tavern. Even latterly our activities was by and large martial. We did though, one time, run across a Yankee paymaster and relieve him of four thousand dollars in gold coin. Squealed like it was his own money. Well, since hostilities was officially ended it was technically criminal so Potter rode down to Arkansas and I went to Cairo Illinois with my share, started calling myself Burroughs and opened an eating place called The Green Frog. I married a grass widow but my drinking picked up and my wife did not like the company of my river friends. She decided to go back to her first husband, a clerk in a hardware store. She said, "Goodbye, Reuben, a love for decency does not abide in you." I told her, "Goodbye, Nola, I hope that little nail-selling bastard will make you happy this time." She took my boy with her too. He never did like me anyhow. I guess I did speak awful rough to him but I did not mean nothing by it. You would not want to see a clumsier child than Horace. I bet he broke forty cups. . .
rooster		Hey!
rooster		Is it Chaney?
mattie		I would not recognize the soles of his feet.
rooster		Step back now.
rooster		God damn it.
rooster		Snagged. Well you are going to have to clamber on up with this knife. I am too old and too fat. 56
rooster		It had one billiard table, served ladies and men both but mostly men. I tried to run it myself a while but I couldn't keep good help and I never did learn how to buy meat. I was like a man fighting bees. Finally I give up and solt it and went out to see the country.
rooster		You are doing well.
rooster		No! Cut him down!
mattie		Why?
rooster		I might know him.
mattie		Why did they hang him so high?
rooster		I don't know. Possibly in the belief it would make him more dead.
rooster		I do not know this man.
mattie		He knew the hanged man? 59
rooster		He did not. But it is a dead body, possibly worth something in trade.
rooster		She had taken a notion she wanted me to be a lawyer. Bought a heavy book called Daniels on Negotiable Instruments and set me to reading it. Never could get a grip on it and I was happy enough to set it aside and leave Texas. There ain't but about six trees between there and Canada, and nothing else grows but has stickers on it. I went to--
rooster		I knew it.
mattie		Knew what?
rooster		We're being followed. I asked the Indian to signal with a shot if there was someone on our trail.
mattie		Should we be concerned, Marshal?
rooster		No. It's Mr. LeBoeuf, using us as bird dogs in hopes of cutting in once we've flushed the prey. Our Texas friend has got just enough sense to recognize he can't outtrack me. 60
mattie		Perhaps we could double back over our tracks, and confuse the trail in a clever way.
rooster		No, we will wait right here and offer our friend a warm hello, and ask him where he is going.
rooster		You are not LeBoeuf.
bear man		My name is Forster. I practice dentistry in the Nation. Also, veterinary arts. And medicine, on those humans that will sit still for it. 61 Rooster  You have your work cut out for you there.
bear man		Traded for him with an Indian, who said he came by him honestly. I gave up two dental mirrors and a bottle of expectorant.  Do either of you need medical attention?
rooster		No.
bear man		I have my bearskin. You might want to head to the Original Greaser Bob's. He notched a dugout into a hollow along the Carrillon River. If you ride the river you won't fail to see it. Greaser Bob--Original Greaser Bob--is hunting north of the picket wire and would not begrudge its use.
bear man		I have taken his teeth. I will entertain an offer for the rest of him.
rooster		Take my jacket. Creep onto the roof. If they are not friendly I will give you a sign to damp the chimney. 62
man		Who is out there?
rooster		We are looking for shelter.
man		No room for you here! Ride on!
rooster		Who all is in there?
voice		Ride on!
rooster		I am a Federal officer! Who is in there? Speak up and be quick about it.
new voice		A Methodist and a son-of-a-bitch!
rooster		Is that Emmett Quincy?
new voice		I don't know any Emmett Quincy.
rooster		Listen here, Emmett Quincy. I know it is you! This is Rooster Cogburn. Columbus Potter and five other marshals is out here with me. We have got a bucket of coal oil. In one minute we will burn you out from both ends! Chuck your arms clear and come out with your hands locked on your head and you will not be harmed. Oncet that coal oil goes down the chimney we are killing everything that comes out the door!
quincy		There's only two of you!
rooster		You go ahead and bet your life on it! How many of you is in there?
quincy		Me and Moon, but he is hit! He can't walk!
rooster		Drag him out! Light that lamp! 64 Thinking beat.
quincy		Tell them other officers to be careful with their guns! We are coming out!
rooster		Down in the snow! Lie still while I cuff you! We is only two, but my man on the roof will shoot you if you get feisty.
quincy		You said it was a man on the roof. I thought it was Potter.
rooster		You was always dumb, Quincy, and remain true to form.
quincy		That is our supper and breakfast both. I like a big breakfast.
moon		Sofky always cooks up bigger than you think.
quincy		We didn't know who was out there weather like this. It might have been some crazy man. Anyone can say he is a marshal.
moon		My leg hurts.
rooster		I'll bet it does. When is the last time you seen your old pard Ned Pepper?
quincy		Ned Pepper? I don't know him. Who is he?
rooster		I'm surprised you don't remember him. He is a little fellow, nervous and quick. His lip is all messed up.
quincy		That don't bring anybody to mind.
rooster		There is a new boy that might be running with Ned. He is short himself and he has got a powder mark on his face, a black place. He calls himself Chaney, or Chelmsford sometimes. Carries a Henry rifle.
quincy		That don't bring anybody to mind. Black mark, I would remember that.
rooster		You don't remember anything I want to know, do you Quincy? I hope you don't mind. . .
moon		I don't know those boys. I always try to help out the law.
rooster		By the time we get back to Fort Smith that leg will be swelled up tight as Dick's hatband. It will be mortified and they will cut it off. Then if you live I will get you two or three years in the Federal house up in Detroit.
moon		You are trying to get at me.
rooster		They will teach you to read and write up there but the rest of it won't be so good. Them boys can be hard on a gimp.
moon		You are trying to get at me.
rooster		You give me some good information on Ned and I will take you to McAlester's store tomorrow get that ball taken out of your leg. Then I will give you three days to clear the Territory.
quincy		We don't know those boys you are looking for.
rooster		It ain't his leg.
quincy		Don't go to flapping your mouth, Moon. It is best to let me do the talking.
moon		I would say if I knew. . . 67 Quincy We are weary trappers.
mattie		The man Chaney with the marked face killed my father. He was a whiskey drinker like you and it led to killing in the end. If you answer the marshal's questions he will help you. I have a good lawyer at home and he will help you too.
moon		I am puzzled by this.  Why is she here?
quincy		Don't go jawing with these people, Moon. Don't go jawing with that runt.
mattie		 I don't like you. I hope you go to jail. My lawyer will not help you.
moon		My leg is giving me fits.
rooster		Yes, a young fellow like you don't want to loose his leg. You are too young to be getting about on a willow peg. You love dancing and sport, carrying on.
quincy		Easy now. He is trying to get at you.
rooster		I am getting at you with the truth.
moon		We seen Ned and Haze two days ago. We's supposed-- 68
quincy		Don't act the fool! If you blow I will kill you!
moon		I am played out. I must have a doctor. We's supposed--
rooster		God damn it!
moon		Oh lord, I am dying!
rooster		I can do nothing for you, son. Your pard has killed you and I have done for him.
moon		Don't leave me lying here! Don't let the wolves rip me up!
rooster		I'll see you are buried right. You tell me about Ned. Where did you see him? 69
moon		Two days ago at McAlester's store. They are coming here tonight to get remounts, and sofky. They just robbed the Katy Flyer at Wagoner's Switch if the snow didn't stop 'em.
rooster		Should I tell him you was outlawed up?
moon		It don't matter, he knows I am on the scout. I will meet him later walking the streets of Glory!
rooster		Don't be looking for Quincy.
rooster		Hobble our mounts in the corral out back. We don't know when they's coming.
mattie		Is he dead?
rooster		He is. I stowed the bodies under the blanket there. Just needs to look right enough to get 'em in the door. 70
mattie		What was that?
rooster		Fingers.
mattie		What do we do now?
rooster		We wait. They ride up, what we want is to get them all in the dugout. I will kill the last one to go in and then we will have them in a barrel.
mattie		You will shoot him in the back?
rooster		It will give them to know our intentions is serious. Then I will call down and see if they will be taken alive. If they won't I will shoot them as they come out. I am hopeful that three of their party being dead will take the starch out of them. 71
mattie		You display great poise.
rooster		It is just a turkey shoot. There was one time in New Mexico, when Bo was a strong colt and I myself had less tarnish, we was being pursued by seven men. I turned Bo around and taken the reins in my teeth and rode right at them boys firing them two navy sixes I carry on my saddle. Well I guess they was all married men who loved their families as they scattered and run for home.
mattie		That is hard to believe.
rooster		What is?
mattie		One man riding at seven.
rooster		It is true enough. You go for a man hard enough and fast enough and he don't have time to think about how many is with him--he thinks about himself and how he may get clear of the wrath that is about to set down on him.
mattie		Why were they pursuing you?
rooster		They was in the nature of a posse.
mattie		You were particeps criminis in something other than the case of the Yankee paymaster?
rooster		I robbed a high-interest bank. You can't rob a thief, can you? I never robbed a citizen. Never took a man's watch. 72 Mattie It is all stealing.
rooster		That is the position they took in New Mexico.
leboeuf		Hello?
mattie		We have to warn him, Marshal!
rooster		Too late.
leboeuf		Oh!
mattie		What do we do, Marshal?
rooster		We sit. What does he do?
rooster		He is a fine one for not drawing attention to himself.
rooster		Him in the woolly chaps is Lucky Ned.
rooster		Well, that's that.
rooster		Well that didn't pan out.
rooster		You managed to put a kink in my rope, pardner.
leboeuf		I am theverely injured.
rooster		Yes you got drug some.
leboeuf		Altho shshot. By a rifle.
rooster		That is quite possible. The scheme did not develop as I had planned. You have been shot in the shoulder but the ball passed through. It will pain you in the years to come. What happened to your mouth?
leboeuf		I believe I beh mythelf.
rooster		Couple of teeth missing and yes, the tongue is bit almost through. Do you want to see if it will knit or should I just yank it free? I know a teamster who bit his tongue off being thrown from a horse. After a time he learned to make himself more or less understood.
leboeuf		Hngnickh.
rooster		What's that now?
leboeuf		Knit.
rooster		Very well. It is impossible to bind a tongue wound. The shoulder we will kit out.
leboeuf		I thaw him too. Ith how I came to be here.
mattie		Neither of these men are Chaney, Marshal.
rooster		I know it. I know them both. The ugly one is Coke Hayes. Him uglier still is Clement Parmalee. Parmalee and his brothers have a silver claim in the Winding Stair Mountains and I will bet you that's where Lucky Ned's gang is waiting. We'll sleep here, follow in the morning.
mattie		We promised to bury the poor soul inside. 77
rooster		Ground is too hard. If these men wanted a decent burial they should have got themselves kilt in summer.
mattie		Sleep well, Little Blackie. . .
leboeuf		Azh I understand it, Chaney--or Chelmzhford, azh he called himshelf in Texas--shot the shenator'zh dog. When the shenator remonshtrated Chelmzhford shot him azh well. You could argue that the shooting of the dog wazh merely an inshtansh of malum prohibitum, but the shooting of a shenator izh indubitably an inshtansh of malum in shay.
rooster		Malla-men what?
mattie		Malum in se. The distinction is between an act that is wrong in itself, and an act that is wrong only according to our laws and mores. It is Latin.
rooster		I am struck that LeBoeuf is shot, trampled, and nearly severs his tongue and not only does not cease to talk but spills the banks of English.
leboeuf		 I wuzh within three hundred yardzh of Chelmzhford once. The closhesht I have been. With the Sharp'sh carbine, that izh within range. But I wuzh mounted, and had the choish of firing off-hand, or dishmounting to shoot from resht--which would allow Chelmzhford to augment the dishtansh. I fired mounted--and fired wide.
rooster		. . . You could not hit a man at three hundred yards if the gun was resting on Gibraltar. 79
leboeuf		The Sharp'sh carbine izh an inshtrument of uncanny power and precizhun.
rooster		I have no doubt that the gun is sound.
rooster		That was "Johnny in the Low Ground." There are very few fiddle tunes I have not heard. Once heard they are locked in my mind forever. It is a sadness to me that I have sausage fingers that cannot crowd onto a fretboard--little fat girls at a cotillion. "Soldier's Joy"!
leboeuf		I don't believe he shlept.
rooster		Fort Smith is a healthy distance, LeBoeuf, but I would 80 encourage the creature you ride to try to make it in a day. Out here a one-armed man looks like easy prey.
leboeuf		And a one-eyed man--who can't shshoodt? Why don't you tshurn back, Khoghburn?
rooster		I will do fine.
leboeuf		In conscschiensh you cannot shite our agreement. You are the pershon who shshot me.
mattie		Mr. LeBoeuf has a point, Marshal. It is an unfair leg-up in any competition to shoot your opposite number.
rooster		God damn it! I don't accept it as a given that I did shoot LeBoeuf. There was plenty of guns going off.
leboeuf		I heard a rifle and felt the ball. You mishshed your shshodt, Khoghburn, admit it. You are more handicapped without the eye than I without the arm.
rooster		Missed my shot! I can hit a gnat's eye at ninety yards!
rooster		The chinaman is running them cheap shells on me again.
leboeuf		I tdhought you were going to shay the shun was in your eyezh. That izh to shay, your eye.
rooster		Two at one time!
rooster		I will chunk one high. Hold fire.
leboeuf		There.
rooster		There?! My bullet!
leboeuf		Your bullet? If you hit what you aim at, eckshplain my shoulder!
mattie		Gentlemen, shooting cornbread out here on the prairie is getting us no closer to the Ned Pepper gang. 82
rooster		One more, this will prove it. Hold fire!
leboeuf		Azh I shed, Khoghburn.
rooster		Did you not see the piece fly off?!
rooster		Find our way back!
rooster		Lucky Ned!
leboeuf		Very good, Khoghburn. Now what.
leboeuf		Cogburn does not want me eating out of his store.
mattie		That is silly. You have not eaten the whole day, and it is my store not his.
rooster		Let him starve!
leboeuf		That wazh your idea.
rooster		--He does not contribute! He is a millstone, with opinions! He is a man who walks in front of bullets!
mattie		Mr. LeBoeuf drew single-handed upon the Lucky Ned Pepper Gang while we fired safely from cover, like a band of sly Injuns!
rooster		We?
mattie		It is unfair to indict a man when his jaw is swollen and tongue mangled and who is therefore unable to rise to his own defense!
leboeuf		I can thpeak for mythelf. I am hardly obliged to anther the ravingth of a drunkard. It ith beneath me.
rooster		Take the girl! I bow out!
leboeuf		A fine thing to deshide once you have brought her into the middle of the Choctaw Nation. 85 Rooster I bow out! I wash my hands!
mattie		Gentlemen, we cannot fall out in this fashion, so close to our goal, with Tom Chaney nearly in hand!
rooster		In hand?! If he is not in a shallow grave, somewhere between here and Fort Smith, he is gone! Long gone! Thanks to Mr. LeBoeuf, we missed our shot! We have barked, and the birds have flown! Gone gone gone! Lucky Ned and his cohort, gone! Your fifty dollars, gone! Gone the whiskey seized in evidence! The trail is cold, if ever there was one! I am a foolish old man who has been drawn into a wild goose chase by a harpy in trousers--and a nincompoop! Well, Mr. LeBoeuf can wander the Choctaw Nation for as long as he likes; perhaps the local Indians will take him in and honor his gibberings by making him Chief! You, sister, may go where you like! I return home! Our engagement is terminated! I bow out!
mattie		I am going with you.
leboeuf		Oh, that izh not poshible.
mattie		Have I held you back? I have a Colt's dragoon revolver which I know how to use, and I would be no more of a burden to you than I was to the marshal. 86
leboeuf		That izh not my worry. You have earned your shpurzh, that izh clear enough--you have been a regular "old hand" on the trail. But Cogburn izh right, even if I would not give him the shatishfaction of consheding it. The trail izh cold, and I am conshiderably diminished.
mattie		How can you give up now, after the many months you've dedicated to finding Chaney? You have shown great determination. I misjudged you. I picked the wrong man.
leboeuf		I would go on in your company if there were clear way to go. But we would be shtriking out blindly. Chelmshford izh gone--we have chaished him right off the map. There izh nothing for it. I am bound for Texash, and it izh time for you to go home too.
mattie		I will not go back. Not without Chaney, dead or alive.
leboeuf		I misjudged you as well. I eckshtend my hand.
mattie		Mr. LeBoeuf! Please!
leboeuf		Adiosh!
chaney		Well now I know you. Your name is Mattie. You are little Mattie the bookkeeper. Isn't this something.
mattie		Yes, and I know you, Tom Chaney.
chaney		What are you doing here?
mattie		I came to fetch water.
chaney		I mean what are you doing here in these mountains?
mattie		I have not been formally deputized but I am acting as an agent for Marshal Reuben Cogburn and Judge Parker's court.
chaney		Well I will not go. How do you like that?
mattie		There is a posse of officers up on the hill who will force you to go.
chaney		That is interesting news. How many is up there?
mattie		Right around fifty. They are all well armed and they mean business. What I want you to do now is come on across the creek and walk in front of me up the hill.
chaney		I think I will oblige the officers to come after me.
mattie		If you refuse to go I will have to shoot you.
chaney		Oh? Then you had better cock your piece.
mattie		I know how to do it.
chaney		I think not. It is just the other way around. You are going 90 with me. I will--
chaney		I did not think you would do it.
mattie		What do you think now?
chaney		One of my short ribs is broken. It hurts jiggers every breath I take.
mattie		You killed my father when he was trying to help you. I have one of the gold pieces you took from him. Now give me the other.
chaney		I regret that shooting. Mr. Ross was decent to me but he ought not to have meddled in my business.
rooster		Mattie!
mattie		I am down here! Chaney is taken into custody!
chaney		I was drinking and I was mad through and through. Nothing has gone right for me.
chaney		Everything is against me. Now I am shot by a child.
mattie		Stop!
mattie		Help me! Down here! Hurry up!
lucky ned		 Take them horses you got and move!
mattie		Marshal Cogburn and fifty more officers.
lucky ned		Tell me another lie and I will stove your head in!
mattie		Just the marshal.
lucky ned		Cogburn! Do you hear me?
rooster's voice		The girl is nothing to me! She is a runaway from Arkansas!
lucky ned		That is very well! Do you advise me to kill her?
rooster's voice		Do what you think is best, Ned! She is nothing to me but a lost child!
rooster		I will need more than five minutes!
lucky ned		I will not give you more time.
rooster		There will be a party of marshals in here soon, Ned! Let me have Chaney and the girl and I will mislead them for six hours!
lucky ned		Too thin, Rooster! Too thin! Your five minutes is running! No more talk!
rooster's voice		I am leaving but you must give me time!
lucky ned		Up that hill!
lucky ned		Quiet there! 94 The idiot makes a pig-squealing sound in acknowledgment and then falls quiet, loping alongside Mattie and Lucky Ned.
mattie		You will not shoot me.
lucky ned		I will do what I have to do.
mattie		Can I have some of that bacon?
lucky ned		Help yourself. Have some of the coffee.
mattie		I do not drink coffee. I am fourteen.
lucky ned		We do not have buttermilk. And we do not have bread. We are poorly supplied. What are you doing here?
chaney		I will wring your scrawny neck!
lucky ned		Let that go! Farrell, see to his wound. What happened? What are you doing here? 95
mattie		I will tell you what and you will see that I am in the right. Tom Chaney there shot my father to death in Fort Smith and robbed him of two gold pieces and stole his mare. Her name is Judy but I did not see her down at the river. I was informed Rooster Cogburn had grit and I hired him out to find the murderer. A few minutes ago I came upon Chaney watering the horses. He would not be taken in charge and I shot him. If I had killed him I would not be now in this fix. My revolver misfired.
lucky ned		They will do it. It will embarrass you every time. Most girls like to play pretties, but you like guns do you?
mattie		I do not care a thing in the world about guns. If I did I would have one that worked.
chaney		I was shot from ambush, Ned. The horses was blowing and making noise. It was that officer that got me.
mattie		How can you sit there and tell such a big story?
chaney		That pit is a hundred feet deep and I will throw you into it and leave you to scream and rot! How do you like that?
mattie		No you won't. This man will not let you have your way. He is your boss and you must do as he tells you.
chaney		Five minutes is well up!
lucky ned		I will give him a little more time.
chaney		How much more?
lucky ned		Til I think he has had enough.
well dressed man		He is gone, Ned! I can see nothing! We had best make a move!
lucky ned		Hold fast a while there, Doctor!
mattie		Why doesn't the Doctor do that?
lucky ned		He is not a medical doctor. Was that Rooster waylaid us night before last?
mattie		It was Marshal Cogburn and myself.
lucky ned		Yourself, eh? You and Cogburn, quite the posse.
lucky ned		Your friend is gone. You are alone.
lucky ned		You are too nervous, Doctor. It will be hours before he is back with help.
mattie		They are both dead. I was in the very middle of it. It was a terrible thing to see. Do you need a good lawyer?
lucky ned		I need a good judge. What about Coke Hayes--the old fellow shot off his horse?
mattie		Dead as well. His depredations have come to an end.
lucky ned		Poor Coke. He rode back for me. Coke Hayes had spine, and could keep his wits in a tight spot. Dead now, but he should have been dead ten times afore now. Your friend Rooster does not collect many prisoners. 98 Mattie He is not my friend. He has abandoned me to a congress of louts.
lucky ned		You do not varnish your opinions.
well dressed man		Are we staying here for chat?
soldier		Do an owl, Harold!
idiot		Hoo! Hoo! Hoo!
chaney		Let us cut up the winnings from the Katie Flyer.
lucky ned		There will be time for that at The Old Place.
chaney		I will saddle the grey.
lucky ned		I have other plans for you.
chaney		Must I double-mount with the Doctor?
well dressed man		No!
lucky ned		No, it will be too chancy with two men up if it comes to a 99 race. You will wait here with the girl. When we reach Ma's house I will send Carroll back with a fresh mount. You will be out by dark and we will wait for you at The Old Place.
chaney		I don't like that. Let me ride with you, Ned, just out of here anyway.
lucky ned		No. We are short a horse. It can't be helped.
chaney		Marshals will come swarming.
lucky ned		Hours, if they come here at all. They will guess we are all gone.
mattie		I am not staying here by myself with Tom Chaney.
lucky ned		That is the way I will have it.
mattie		He will kill me. You have heard him say it. He has killed my father and now you will let him kill me.
lucky ned		He will do no such thing. Tom, you know the crossing at Cypress Forks, near the log meetinghouse? When you are mounted you will take the girl there and leave her. Do you understand that, Tom? If any harm comes to this child you do not get paid.
chaney		Harold, let me ride up with you.
idiot		Baaaaa! Baaaaa!
chaney		Farrel, I will pay you fifty dollars out of my winnings! I am 100 not heavy!
soldier		Ha ha! Do the calf again, Harold!
chaney		Everything is against me.
mattie		You have no reason to whine. If you act as the bandit chief instructed, and no harm comes to me, you will get your winnings at The Old Place.
chaney		They will not wait for me at The Old Place. Lucky Ned has left me, knowing I am sure to be caught when I leave on foot.
mattie		He is sending a mount.
chaney		That was a story. Keep still now. I must think over my position and how I may improve it.
mattie		Where is the second California gold piece?
mattie		What have you done with Papa's mare?
chaney		Keep still, you little busybody. 101 More brooding silence.
mattie		Are you thinking about The Old Place? If you will let me go, I will swear to it in an affidavit and once you are brought to justice it may go easier on you.
chaney		I tell you I can do better than that. I do not intend to be caught. I need no affidavit.
leboeuf		Sho that ish Chelmthford. Shtrange to be sho closhe at lasht.
mattie		How is it you are here?
leboeuf		I heard the shotsh and went down to the river. . .
mattie		A plan?
leboeuf		He returnzh for Lucky Ned.
mattie		One against four. It is ill advised.
leboeuf		He would not be dishuaded.
lucky ned		Well, Rooster, will you give us the road?
idiot		Moo! Moo!
rooster		Hello, Ned. How many men are with the girl?
lucky ned		Just Chaney. Our agreement is in force: she was in excellent health when last I saw her.
rooster		Farrel, I want you and your brother to stand clear. You as well, Doctor. I have no interest in you today.
lucky ned		What is your intention, Rooster? Do you think one on four is a dogfall?
rooster		I mean to kill you in one minute, Ned. Or see you hanged in 104 Fort Smith at Judge Parker's convenience. Which will you have?
lucky ned		I call that bold talk for a one-eyed fat man!
idiot		Koo koo roo! Blawk!
rooster		Fill your hand, you son of a bitch!
mattie		Shoot them, Mr. LeBoeuf!
leboeuf		Too far, moving too fasht.
lucky ned		Well Rooster, I am shot to pieces. It seems neither of us is to see Judge Parker.
leboeuf		Oh lord.
mattie		Some bully shot! Four hundred yards, at least!
leboeuf		I am afraid I have--
mattie		Stand up, Tom Chaney!
mattie		Mr. LeBoeuf! Are you alive!
mattie		Mr. LeBoeuf!
rooster's voice		Are you there?
mattie		I am here!
rooster's voice		Can you clamber out?
mattie		I cannot!
rooster		Awake?
mattie		Yes! 110 Rooster appears in the mouth of the pit. He has a rope wrapped round his waist and he starts to descend, half walking, half hopping against the pit wall.
mattie		Ahh!
rooster		What is that?
mattie		I am bit!
mattie		Does Mr. LeBoeuf survive?
rooster		He does--even a blow to the head could silence him for only a few short minutes. Where are you bit?
mattie		My foot is pinned and leg broken.
rooster		I have her! Up with us!
rooster		I will send help for you as soon as I can. Don't wander off.
mattie		We are not leaving him!
rooster		I must get you to a doctor, sis, or you are not going to make it.  The girl is snakebit. We are off.
leboeuf		Never doubt the Texash Ranger.
rooster		Come on, you!
mattie		We must stop. Little Blackie is played out.
rooster		We have miles yet.
mattie		No!
night		113
mattie		He is getting away.
rooster		Who is getting away?
mattie		Chaney.
rooster		Hold on, sis.
rooster		Put your arms around my neck, I will carry.
mattie		Where are we?
rooster		I have grown old.
voice-over		A quarter of a century is a long time.
voice-over		I had written a letter of thanks to Marshal Cogburn, with an invitation to visit, along with the fifty dollars I owed him. In his reply he promised he would try to call next time he came to Fort Smith with prisoners. Brief though his note was, it was rife with misspellings.
mattie		Boy.
voice-over		Little Frank had sent me the flier. He had chaffed me through the years over the fact that I had not married, calling the marshal my "secret sweetheart," and he sent a note with the advertisement: "Skill and dash--it's not too late, Mattie!" Little Frank and Victoria have always liked jokes and they are all right in their place. I have never held it against either one of them for leaving me at home to look after Mama, and they know it, for I have told them.
standing man		Yes'm, I am Cole Younger. This is Mr. James. It grieves me to tell you that you have missed Rooster. He passed away, what, three days ago, when the show was in Jonesboro Arkansas. Buried him there in the confederate cemetery. Reuben had a complaint what he referred to as "night hoss" 117 and I believe the warm weather was too much for him. We had some lively times. What was the nature of your acquaintance?
mattie		I knew the marshal long ago. We too had lively times. Thank you, Mr. Younger.
cogburn		Yell County Hold at station
voice-over		I had the marshal's body removed to Dardanelle. The railroads do not like to carry disinterred bodies in the summertime, but I had my way.
voice-over		. . . It's just like a cranky old maid to pull a stunt like that, burying him in the family plot. They say I love nothing but money and the Presbyterian Church and that is why I never married. It is true that I love my church and my bank. I will tell you a secret. Those same people talk mighty nice when 118 they come in for a crop loan or a mortgage extension. I care nothing for what they say. I would have married a baboon if I had wanted and fetched it its newspaper and slippers every morning but I never had time to fool with it.
reuben cogburn		1835-1908 A Resolute Officer Of Parker's Court
voice-over		Anyway, a woman with brains and a frank tongue and one sleeve pinned up and an invalid mother to care for is not widely sought after. I never did see Mr. LeBoeuf again but if he is yet alive I would be pleased to hear from him. I judge he would be in his seventies now and nearer eighty than seventy. I expect some of the starch has gone out of that cowlick. Time just gets away from us.
****Dialogues from script :True_Lies.txt****

harry		Honey, I'm home.
gib		Roger that.  Hey, Fize!  Get your butt in here.  Harry's inside.
harry		Switching to sub-vocal.  Gib, you copy?
harry		 This needs more garlic.
harry		There's Daddy Petrobucks.
harry		Modem in place.  Transmitting... now.
faisil		Affirmatory.  We are in.                               *
faisil		These are encrypted files, guys. This is going to take me a few minutes.
harry		 Where's the john around here?  I have to take a major leak.
harry		 Magnificent, isn't it?
woman		Yes.  Hi, I'm Juno Skinner.  I thought I knew most of Khaled's friends but I don't believe I know you.
harry		Renquist.  Harry Renquist.
gib		Skinner.  Skinner.  Come on...
gib		Juno Skinner.  Art and antiquities dealer, specializing in ancient Persia.
harry		This is Persian, if I'm not mistaken.
juno		Very good.  It's sixth century B.C.  Do you like the period?
harry		 I adore it.
harry		Do you dance, Ms. Skinner?
faisil		Okay, files are unlocked.  I'm in. I'm down, baby.  I got my hand up her dress and I'm going for the gold.  I'm--
gib		Just copy the goddamn files!  Harry, don't be stopping to smell the roses, now.  You hear me, Harry?
juno		Well.  And I thought this was going to be just another bunch of boring bankers and oil billionaires.
harry		Unfortunately, Juno, I have a plane to catch.
juno		Call me, if you'd like to see some of my other pieces.
harry		I'd like that.
gib		 What's your exit strategy Twinkle Toes?
guard		May I see your invitation, sir?
gib		Aw, shit.  Here we go--
gib		Harry, what's your twenty?  I need a position, buddy--
gib		Uh... right!  I'll catch you on the next bend.
harry		In the helicopter.
gib		 He's in the helicopter.
gib		Harry?  HARRY?!
harry		What?
harry		Let's go.  We can still make our flight.
faisil		This is GREAT!!  I never get to shoot!
harry		Empty.  Go.
gib		Harry Tasker wallet.  Harry Tasker passport.  Plane ticket stub, hotel receipt, Tasker.  Two postcards of Lake Geneva.  House keys.  Souvenir snowing Swiss village.
harry		What's this for?
gib		For Dana, schmuck.  Bring your kid something.  You know.  The dad thing.
harry		Got it.  Nice touch.  Okay, pick me up at eight.  The de-brief is at ten hundred.
gib		Hey, hey, hey... what are we forgetting?
harry		What a team.  See you at eight.
gib		Yep.  Sleep fast.
helen		 Hi, honey.  How was the flight?
harry		Fine, honey.  Stay asleep.
helen		Okay.
dana		Hey, thanks dad.  I never had one of these.
harry		You better hurry.  You're going to be late for school.
dana		Really lame.
harry		Dana, don't forget to feed Gizmo!                      *
harry		I'm late.
helen		Me too.
helen		How'd it go at the trade show? You make all the other salesmen jealous?
harry		Yeah.  You should have seen it. We were the hit of the show with the new model ordering system, the one for the 680... how you can write up an order and the second the customer's name goes into the computer, it starts checking their credit, and if they've ordered anything in the past, and if they get a discount...
helen		 That's fabulous Harry.
harry		Yeah, it was wild.
gib		Come any closer I'll kill you.
helen		The plumber came yesterday.  He said they have to dig under the slab or something and it's going to be six hundred dollars to fix.
harry		Uh huh.  Okay.
helen		It's not okay.  It's extortion.
harry		What did you tell him?
helen		I slept with him and he knocked off a hundred bucks.
harry		Good thinking, honey.
gib		Hi, kid.
dana		Hey, Gib.  What up?
harry		Thanks dear.
gib		Here, check these out.
gib		The CCD camera and transmitter and inside a pack of smokes. Slick little unit, huh?
harry		Son of a bitch!
gib		What?
harry		Dana!!
dana		 Can't stop, I'm late.  Bye, Dad!
gib		Kids.  Ten seconds of joy. Thirty years of misery.
harry		She knows not to steal.  I've taught her better than that.
gib		Yeah, but you're not her parents, anymore, you and Helen.  Her parents are Axl Rose and Madonna. The five minutes you spend a day with her can't compete with that kind of constant bombardment. You're outgunned, amigo.
gib		See, kids now are ten years ahead                      * of where we were at the same age. You probably think she's still a virgin--
harry		Don't be ridiculous.  She's only -- how old is she?
gib		Fourteen, Harry.
harry		Right.  She's only fourteen.
gib		Uh huh.  And her little hormones are going like a fire alarm.  I                        * say even money that physicist on                       * the bike is boinkin' her.                              *
harry		No way.  Not Dana.
gib		Okay.  Okay.  De-nail ain't just a river in Egypt.  She's probably stealing the money to pay for an abortion.
harry		Will you just open the door!                           *
gib		Or drugs.
gib		Twenty here, fifty there... I figured my wife's boyfriend was taking it.
harry		I thought you moved out.
gib		Well .  .  .  I moved back in. My lawyer said it would give me a better claim on the house in the property settlement.  Don't change the subject... you owe me two hundred bucks.
janice		Gentlemen, please idenitify yourselves to the scanner.
harry		Harry Tasker.  One zero zero two four.
gib		Albert Gibson.  Three four nine nine one.
janice		Thank you.  You are cleared.
gib		Janice, how many years have you been buzzing us in?
janice		Ten, Mr. Gibson.
gib		And you still reach for your piece every time.
janice		Yes sir.
gib		God!  You have no idea how much that turns me on.  I've never had the courage to say this before but... I love you, Janice.
janice		Yes, sir.
harry		You better watch it.  She might file on you for sexual harassment.
gib		In her dreams.
harry		Come on, Fize.  We're late for our butt-grinding.
trilby		Jesus, Harry!  You guys really screwed the pooch last night. Please tell me how I can look at this, that it's not a total pooch- screw.
harry		Total is a strong word--
gib		There are degrees of totality.
faisil		It's a scale really, with "perfect mission" on one end and "total pooch-screw" on the other and we're more about here--
trilby		Faisil.  You're new on Harry's team, aren't you?
faisil		Yes.
trilby		So what makes you think that the slack I cut him in any way translates to you?!
faisil		Sorry, sir.  Uh... here's what we got.
faisil		Jamal Khaled.  We think he's dirty so we raid his financial files...  Check it out...
faisil		One hundred million in wire transfers from the COMMERCE BANK                       * INTERNATIONAL--                                        *
gib		Which we all know is a front for certain nations to fund terrorist                      * activities.  Something big is                          * going down --
helen		I mean, it's not like he's saving the world or anything.  He's a sales rep for Chrissakes. Whenever I can't get to sleep I ask him to tell me about his day. Six seconds and I'm out.  But he acts like he's curing cancer or something.
allison		So I guess you didn't get away                         * for the weekend after all?                             *
helen		Are you kidding?  Harry had to go out of town.
allison		I'm shocked.
helen		Yeah.  You know Harry.
brad		Helen, have you pulled those files yet?  I need them by lunch.
helen		I won't let you down, Brad.
helen		You bitch.
allison		Girlfriend, you got a man.  You                        * just have to take control .  . .  set up the right mood.                              *
helen		Harry only has two moods: busy...                      * and asleep.
allison		Then you better do something to                        * jumpstart that man's motor.  You know... wake up the sleeping giant of his passion.
harry		What'ya got?
faisil		 Here, check this out--
gib		It's a two million dollar disbursement from Khaled to... Juno Skinner.  Uh huh.  The babe at the party.                        *
harry		It doesn't mean anything.  She buys antiquities for Khaled.
gib		Nope.  The art buys are in a separate ledger.
faisil		And this is a little above market-                     * rate for the horizontal bop, even                      * for a total biscuit like her.
harry		Alright, I want a complete workup on her.  Do we know where she is?
faisil		Uh huh.  Right here in river city.
harry		You're kidding.
faisil		She lives in Rome, but she does stuff here the Smithsonian and has a lot of diplomatic connections, so she has offices                        * here.                                                  *
gib		Sounds like a job for a specialist.
helen		I need you to talk to Dana.  The vice principle called and she cut class again this afternoon.
harry		I'll handle it.
harry		Dana, Mr. Hardy called.  Why weren't you in class today?
dana		He lies!  I was there!  I was in the nurse's office, cause I had a headache.
harry		You seem fine now.
dana		Great!  You're going to believe that fat dweeb Mr. Hardy over your own daughter.
harry		I'm not sure what to believe anymore, young lady.  You never used to lie to me.  But lately you don't seem to know the difference between right and wrong.
harry		Dana, are you listening to me?
dana		Yeah, Dad.
harry		You know you can always talk to me.  Right?  Whatever is going on in your life, your mom and I'll understand.
dana		Okay, Dad.
harry		You'd tell me if there was something wrong, wouldn't you, pumpkin?
dana		I'm not a pumpkin!  Okay?!!  Do I look even remotely like a pumpkin?! I'm not a muffin, or a cupcake or a honeybear either! And you don't understand anything Dad...
gib		It's all set up...  ghost phones and fax, all the usual stuff. You have a suite at the Marquis Hotel under Renquist.  Okay, reality check.  Go.
harry		Hi, I'm Harry Renquist.  I own a--
harry		--corporate art consulting company in San Francisco.  I have an appointment with Ms. Skinner--
juno		Harry!  I thought I might see you again.  I just didn't  except you to call so soon.
harry		Well, what's the point of waiting?
juno		I agree.
juno		So your clients want something for the lobby of their new corporate headquarters?
harry		That's right.  They want something...  dramatic.  I spoke to a number of people who said you're the one to see.
juno		So what did these... people... say about me exactly?
harry		Let's see... that you can read ancient Sanskrit without having to sound out the words.  And that other dealers and archeologists don't like you much.
juno		Those wimps.  It's because I use                       * my diplomatic contacts to export cultural treasures from countries which tell them to take a hike.  I told you to move those crates an hour ago.  Come on guys, let's get going.
juno		You see, a lot of these pieces are from ancient Persia. Unfortunately, ancient Persia is twenty feet under the sand of                          * Iran, Iraq and Syria.  Not the most popular places lately.  So I've had to become an expert in international diplomacy.
juno		Well, do you see anything you like, Mr. Renquist?
harry		She's importing stuff from all over the mid-east.
gib		She could be moving money, guns. Anything.
faisil		And the second you left there, we started getting calls to the                           * ghost numbers.  They were checking out the Renquist front.
harry		Okay.  Let's step up the surveillance on her.  Put on two more guys.
malik		Ms. Skinner?  Can I speak to you for a moment please, in your office?
malik		You stupid undisciplined bitch!
juno		It's a good thing you pay me well.
malik		Do you realize that there are surveillance teams watching this place right now?  Your phones are almost certainly tapped.  And you are busy laughing and flirting like a whore with this Renquist, who may be a--
juno		No.  He checked out okay--
malik		That is for interrupting.  And that is for being wrong.  We do not tolerate mistakes.
juno		What do you want me to do?
malik		Find out who this Renquist it.
juno		How?
malik		Use the gifts that Allah has given you.
secretary		Hello, Tektel Systems.  Mr.                            * Tasker's office.
helen		Hi, Charlene?  It's Helen.  Is he there?
charlene		Harry's in a sales meeting, Mrs. Tasker.  Let me try him in there. Hold please.
gib		It's Helen.                                            *
harry		Hi honey.  What's going on?                            *
helen		Sorry to bother you in a meeting, but you have to promise me that                        * you'll be home at eight.  I don't                      * want Dana and I sitting here by ourselves like we were last year. You promise?
harry		 Gotta go, honey.  Bye bye.
harry		Hello?  Oh, Juno, hi.  Well sure.  I can be there in twenty minutes.
harry		What?  It's on the way.  She says she's got something for me.
gib		Yeah, right.
harry		Hello?
juno		Hello, Harry.
juno		Do you like my tomb?  The museum                       * financing fell out, so I thought                       * your clients might be interested.
harry		It's certainly... dramatic.
juno		Especially in this light.  This is the only light they had then,                       * so I like to study it this way. I love this place.  I love all ruins.
harry		Is that why you got into this business?
juno		I've always been a collector at heart.  When I see something I want, I have to have it.
harry		And you have a reputation as someone who gets what she wants.
juno		Yes, I do.
gib		Harry, this is your conscience speaking...
juno		Look at this.  People who dies twenty centuries ago.
juno		They breathed and loved and wept, just like us.  And now their ideals, their religions, their social orders... are gone like mist.  What did any of it matter?
juno		I only hope they lived well. That they got what they wanted.
juno		Getting what you want is the only important thing.
gib		Harry?  Listen to the following code word.  Helen.  H-E-L-E-N. Now, do you want me to I beep you?
harry		Yes.
juno		Yes what?
harry		Uh, yes, it is important.
harry		Uh, it looks like I have to run. I'll call you tomorrow.  Your proposal is very interesting.
dana		See.
gib		We have a friend.  Five cars back, inside lane.  They've been                       * on us since we left Juno's.                            *
harry		Station wagon?
gib		Uh huh.  Want me to lose them?
harry		                                      * I need you at the Georgetown mall                      * in three minutes.                                      *
seven		Copy that.  We're rolling.
gib		Helen's going to be pissed.
harry		See, that's the problem with terrorists.  They're really inconsiderate when it comes to people's schedules.
harry		Test two three.  Pull over here.
gib		 You don't smoke, dickhead.
harry		 Gonna try to get a closer shot of                      * Beavis & Butthead.                                     *
gib		There's another guy, still in the car.
harry		 Stay on him.
gib		Helen?  Hi, it's Gib.  Harry remembered something he left at the office.  You know Harry.
helen		Yeah, Gib.  I know Harry.
helen		Where are you going?
dana		Out.  If Dad doesn't care enough about us to be here on his birthday, then why should I care? I'm going to a movie.
helen		No you're not.  You're going to stay here until your father gets home and have cake!
dana		Mom, wake up!  Dad barely knows we exist.
helen		That's not true, honey--
dana		It is true!  He doesn't know anything about me.  He still thinks I'm like ten years old or something.  As long as I just smile and say yes to whatever he says, like his good little fantasy daughter, he thinks everything's fine.  But it's not fine.  Nothing's fine.
helen		Dana!  Come back here!
gib		Oh shit.  Harry, I lost the third guy. Harry?
gib		Harry?  Harry, you copy?!  Shit!
harry		 Sorry.
gib		WRONG!  THIS IS NOT GOOD!
harry		Get back to the car!
harry		Federal Officer in pursuit of suspect!  Sorry.
gib		Harry, what's your twenty?
harry		Westbound in the park... suspect is on a motorcycle... he's going to  come out on Franklin.  Hang on--
gib		Copy that.
harry		And make it fast.  My horse is getting tired.
harry		Can you just press the top floor, please.
gib		The guy on the horse?!
harry		What the hell were you thinking? We had the guy and you let him get away.
harry		What kind of  cop are you?
harry		Look, I know you're upset.  I'm really sorry, honey.  I raced home as quick--
helen		It's okay, don't bother, Harry.
harry		I'm sorry.  Thank you for the party.
helen		Yeah.  It was great.
helen		Let's go to bed, Harry.  There's only one present you have to open tonight.
helen		Don't move.  I'll be right back.
harry		Come on to bed, you don't have to brush your teeth.
helen		I'll just be a second.  So what happened tonight at the office?
harry		I couldn't believe it.  I go back to get this report I need, right, and the phone is ringing, so like a bonehead I answer it--
harry		It's the big client in Japan, and it's the middle of the morning there and their whole system is crashed... this guy's having a meltdown--
helen		 What'd you do, honey?
harry		Well I pull out the manual on their setup, which is the new 680 server...
helen		 It sounds wild.  So now you're a big hero, right?  For fixing their system.
harry		 Uh huh.
helen		My husband the hero.
helen		I'll be right there, honey.  Just a minute.
helen		Just a second.
helen		Happy Birthday, Harry.
gib		Hey, did that guy Harry chased last night call in to give himself up yet?  Cause apparently that's the only way we're going to catch the son of a bitch --
harry		 Okay.  Here she comes.
harry		Look at the way the little punk is driving.  He's all over the place.  Look-- he hasn't signalled once.
gib		Goddammit!  That's outrageous.
dana		Oh my God!  I think that's my dad!
trent		Hang on!
harry		 So, you wanna play huh?  You little--
gib		 We'll teach that little puke not to signal.
gib		 Ha!  The little prick ditched you!  That is so goddamn funny.
harry		Son of a bitch!
gib		Can we go to the office now, Mr. Superspy?
harry		That's him.
harry		Abu Kaleem Malik.
gib		 Hardcore, highly fanatical, ultra-                     * fundamentalist.  Linked to                             * numerous car-bombings, that cafe                       * bomb in Rome, and the 727 out of Lisbon last year.  Major player.                       *
faisil		They call him "The Sand Spider".                       *
trilby		Why?
faisil		 Probably because it sounds scary.                      *
trilby		This is impressive, gentlemen. Of course, it would have been even more impressive if you actually knew where he was.
harry		We'll get him.
trilby		Yes.  You will.  I generally prefer it when my covert operations don't make the front page.
gib		What's going on?
harry		Look, uh... I've got to talk to Helen about this thing with Dana. I'm just going to run in and see if she can get away for lunch.
gib		You want me to just hang-- ?
harry		Just hang a minute.
gib		I'll just hang then, shall I?
receptionist		Hello Mr. Tasker.  Just a second, I'll  buzz Helen.
harry		No.  No, I'd like to surprise her.  Thanks, I know where her desk is.
allison		Helen!  It's your mystery man.
helen		Simon?  Ohmygod.
helen		Hello, Simon?  It's all right.  There's no one around.
helen		You mean right now?  Yes.  I can't wait.  Bye.
helen		Can you cover me for an hour?
allison		Just an hour?  You should tell this stud to take more time.
helen		Will you shutup.  I should never have told you about him.
gib		You look like you got gut-kicked. What's the matter?  You sick?
harry		 He-- Helen.  Helen-- it's Helen. It's Helen, Gib.
gib		Something to do with Helen, is what I'm getting.
harry		She's having an affair.
gib		Congratulations.  Welcome to the club.
harry		It can't be.  Not Helen.
gib		Nobody believes it can happen to them.
harry		It can't be.
gib		Same thing happened to me with wife two.  I had no idea until I came home and the house was empty.  I mean empty.  She even took the ice-cube trays from the fridge.  What kind of person would think of that?
harry		 I still don't believe it.
gib		Relax.  Helen still loves you. She just wants this guy to bang her.  It's nothing serious. You'll get used to it after a --
harry		STOP.  CHEERING.  ME.  UP.
gib		What'dya expect Harry?  She's a flesh and blood woman.  And you're never there.  It was only a matter of time.
gib		I say we concentrate on work. That's how I always got through it whenever my life turned to dogshit.  Let's catch some terrorists and then you can beat the crap out of them.  You'll feel better.
gib		Women.  Can't live with 'em. Can't kill 'em.
gib		He's giving us a blank check on                        * wiretaps.  So I've set 'em up on all of Juno's shipping agents, her clients, and Faisil made up                        * a list of possible contacts that Crimson Jihad might have in this country.  Now all we can do is                         * wait --                                                *
gib		Is this national security stuff boring you?
harry		Put a tap on her phone.
gib		What're you talking about?  We have that.
harry		Helen's phone.  Her office line and the line at my house.
harry		Yeah, and we do it twenty times a day.  Don't give me that crap. Just put on the taps.  Now.
gib		Sure, Harry.  I'm on it.
harry		How was school today?
dana		Fine.
helen		So.  You came by to see me today?
harry		I was in the area, and I thought you might like to have lunch.
helen		They must've just missed me.
harry		They said you had to run out.
helen		Yeah.  It was a rush thing.  They needed some documents down at the court house.  I barely made it.
harry		So, a little excitement in an otherwise dull day.  Did is work out okay?
helen		Oh, sure.  Fine.  I'll get some more gravy.
dana		I'm done.
helen		Hello?
simon		Helen?  It's Simon.  Is it safe to talk?
helen		Yes.  Go ahead.
simon		I can't talk long.  Can you meet me for lunch tomorrow?  I must see you.
helen		Yes.  I suppose so.  Where?
simon		The same place.  One o'clock.  I have to go now.  See you tomorrow.  Remember, I need you.
harry		I thought we might have lunch tomorrow.
helen		I can't, honey.  I promised Allison I'd go shopping with her. Sorry.
harry		No problem.
gib		Look, Harry.  I know this is rough.  I felt the same way the first time it happened to--
gib		Okay, she's turning on Seventeenth.  Make a left, you should see her.
harry		There she is.
harry		Give me audio.
simon		Are you sure you weren't followed?
helen		I kept looking back, like you taught me.  I didn't see anyone.
simon		Okay.  It's just, things are a bit hot for me right now.  If I get a signal...  I may have to leave suddenly.
helen		I understand.
simon		It's my job to risk my life, but not yours.  I feel bad about bringing you into this, but you're the only one I can trust.
helen		Where were you?  On a... uh,                           * mission?
simon		Ssshhh!  We say Op.  Covert                            * operation.  And this one got a little rough.
helen		Worse than Cairo?                                      *
simon		Cairo was a day at the beach next                      * to this.
gib		Guy's a spook!
harry		Yeah, but for who?                                     *
gib		He could be working her to get to you.
simon		Did you read the papers yesterday?
helen		Yes.
simon		Sometimes a story is a mask for a covert operation.  See-- two men killed in a restroom, and two unidentified men in a running                          * shootout, ending at the                                * Marriot...
helen		That was you?!
simon		You recognized my style.  See, you're very good.  You're a natural at this.
gib		The guy's a fake!  He's taking credit for our moves.
helen		Tell me what happened?
simon		I'm sorry, I can't.
helen		You can trust me completely.
simon		I know.  But it would compromise your safety too much to know certain things.
helen		Right, of course.  I was worried when I didn't hear from you that night.
simon		It's strange.  I knew I was in a woman's thoughts when I was shooting it out with those assassins.
gib		Unbelievable.
helen		Were they trying to kill you?                          *
simon		Three of them.  Hardly worth                           * talking about.  Two won't bother                       * me again.
helen		And you chased one?
simon		Something came over me, I just had nail him, no matter what the                       * risk.  It was pretty hairy.  I thought he had me, a couple of                         * times.  But I really can't take credit .  .  .
helen		What is it you want me to do?
simon		Not here.  I'll call you and we'll rendezvous again.  We have to leave separately, so we aren't seen together.  For your safety.
helen		You'll call me then?
simon		Yes.  Now go.
gib		 Sorry Harry, I know this is painful.
simon		It's a great little bar, Amanda, you'd love it.  Beirut's a great place if you know the city.                            * Listen, this isn't a secure line. I'll tell you all about it when I get back tomorrow... if I live.  Scared?  Never!  Except of you--
simon		--I have to go, baby.  A guy's coming toward me--
simon		It wants you too.  Feel it vibrate?  How about a little spin?
simon		You gotta jump in.  That's rule number one.  It takes a little practice, but there's no way around it.
simon		See, it's not just the car, it's a total image.  An identity you have to go for.  This isn't some high-tech sports car...  it doesn't even handle that great. But that's not the idea, is it.
simon		What're we talking about here? Pussy, right?
harry		Absolutely.
simon		Well then this is a vital piece of equipment.  Used properly, it can change your life.  See, you cruise.  No racing.  This ain't a Ferrari.  You check out the scenery, let the scenery check you out.  You got to take it slow.  Old cars are like good women... they heat up fast.
harry		Keep talking.
simon		Let's face it, Harry, the Vette gets 'em wet.  But it's not enough.  If you want to really close escrow, you gotta have an angle.
harry		And you've got one.
simon		It's killer.  Look at me-- I'm not that much to look at.  No really.  I can be honest.  But I got 'em lining up, and not just skanks, either.  Some are.
harry		So what's your angle?
simon		Sorry.  Trade secret.
harry		 Sure.  Set me up and then don't tell me.
simon		Okay, just ask yourself.  What do women really want?  You take these bored housewives, married to the same guy for years.  Stuck in a rut.  They need some release.  The promise of adventure.  A hint of danger.  I create that for them.
harry		So you're basically lying your ass off the whole time?  I couldn't do it.
simon		Well, think of it as playing a role.  It's fantasy.  You have to work on their dreams.  Get them out of their daily suburban grind for a few hours.
harry		Isn't that hard to keep up, in the long run?
simon		Doesn't matter.  I like change. You know, constant turnover.  As soon as I close the deal, it's one of two more times, then adios.
harry		Use 'em and lose 'em.
simon		Exactly.  The trick is, you gotta pick your target.  They have to be nice little housewife types. School-teachers.  But, I'm telling you, you get their pilot lit, these babes, they can suck- start a leaf-blower.
harry		What about the husbands?
simon		Dickless.  If they took care of                        * business, I'd be out of business, know what I mean?
harry		Those idiots.
harry		You working on someone right now?
simon		I always have a couple on the hook.  You know.  There's one right now, I've got her panting like a dog.  It's great.
harry		What does she do?
simon		Some kinda legal secretary of something.  Married to some boring jerk.
simon		And she could be so hot, if she wanted to be.  She's like a dying plant that just needs a little water.
harry		But with you, she gets to be hot, right?
simon		Red hot.  Her thighs steam.
harry		Sooooo... she's pretty good in bed, then?
simon		 Hey, slow down you're gonna miss the turn!
simon		See.  You and this car were meant for each other.  Why fight it? Sure, I have a couple other buyers lined up, but I like your style.  Whattya say?  Should we start on the paperwork?
harry		Let me think about it.  Hold it a day for me?
simon		Because it's you.
helen		Dinner's in the warmer.  Tell your father I may be late.
dana		Where are you going?
helen		Out.
gib		Here's today's transcripts. There's nothing interesting.
simon		Nothing from Simon?
harry		Give me the page.
gib		What are you talking about?
harry		It skips from page nine to eleven.  Where's page ten?
gib		Aw, it's gotta be a typo--
harry		GIVE ME THE GODDAMN PAGE!!
gib		 Okay.  Here.
gib		Jeez, Harry.  Seek help.
simon		Helen.  I need your help.  Can you meet me tonight?
helen		What's happened?
simon		It's serious.  That's all I can                        * say.  Just meet on K Street under                      * the Key Bridge.  At eight sharp.                       *
harry		Shit!  It's almost eight.                              *
harry		She's still at my house.                               *
gib		The purse is still at the house.
harry		Unit Two?  Unit Seven?
faisil		Seven here.
unit two		This is Two.
harry		Immediate roll.  Acquire subject at K Street and Key Bridge.                            * Vehicle is red-and-white                               * convertible.  You have six minutes.
faisil		Roger, One.  Rolling.
unit two		Copy that.
gib		Wait a minute!  Are you out of your mind?  You can't pull agents off a priority surveillance to follow  your wife!    It's gross misappropriation of Sector's resources, it's...  it's a breach of national security.
harry		Whatya going to do?   Tell?
gib		Goddamnit, Harry.  This is our butts.  So your life is in the toilet.  So your wife is banging a used car salesman.  Sure it's humiliating.  But be a man here--
harry		You tell on me, I tell on you.
gib		Whatya talking?  I'm clean as a preacher's sheets, babe.  Clean as a --
harry		What about that time you trashed a six-week operation because you were busy getting a blow-job?
gib		 You know about that?
gib		Take Franklin, it's quicker.
gib		You don't have any pictures though, do ya.  Huh?                                   *
morton		Two here.  Subject is southbound on Key Bridge.  A man and a woman                      * in the vehicle.
simon		Now don't be alarmed... but if I'm spotter, it would be best if they don't see you.  You should keep your head down until we're out of the city.
harry		Roger, two.  One to Condor, do you have visual?
simon		My place in the city is too hot right now.  So is the penthouse in New York.  But this place is secure.
simon		To our assignment.
helen		What is it you need me to do?
simon		Helen, I want you to be my wife.
helen		I'm married!
simon		 Just for the operation in Paris. I need to be married.  They'll be looking for a man traveling alone.
helen		We're going to Paris?
simon		Helen, there's a double agent in my outfit... I don't know who. There's no one I can trust. Except you.  Can you get away? Just for two days.
helen		I don't know.  I have to think...
simon		Here.  Sit down.  Be comfortable.
helen		Okay.  I'll do it.
simon		You are incredibly brave.  I have to remind myself the fear you must be feeling.  I've lived like this for years, so I'm used to it.  Every day when I get up, I think it might be my last.  But it makes you appreciate life. And the moment.  Because that may be all you have.
simon		To pull this cover story off, we have to look exactly like two people who are intimate with each other.  The enemy can spot a fake easily.
simon		You see what I mean?  That reaction would give us away in a second.  Try to relax.
helen		It's just that... it's been sixteen years since anyone but Harry did that, I--
simon		Relax.  There, that's better. Let yourself slip into the role.
simon		There you go.  That's right...
helen		NO!  Stop!  Get off me RIGHT NOW!
simon		If not for me, do it for democracy.
harry		Sit down.
helen		Kettleman, Barnes and McGrath. I'm a legal secretary.
helen		He said he was an American agent.
harry		How long have you been a member of his faction?
helen		I don't know anything about a faction.  I just met Simon...  or whatever his name is...  a couple of weeks ago.  I barely know him.
gib		That's not what it looked like when we found you.
harry		How did you meet him?
simon		 Keep this for me.  I can't afford to be taken with it.  National security is at stake.  I'll contact you if a can.  Okay?  Oh--
helen		I should have gone to the police, I suppose.
gib		But you didn't.  Why not?
helen		I don't know.  I guess... I wanted to see what would happen.
harry		What did happen?
helen		Three days later, he called me. He told me to meet him at Overlook Park.
simon		Thank you.  You saved my life. What's your name?
helen		Helen.
simon		You can call me Simon.  You opened it.
helen		I just glances inside.
simon		 Then you know.
harry		Why did you continue to see him?
helen		He needed my help.
harry		Not because you were attracted to him?
helen		No.
harry		You weren't attracted to him at all?
helen		Well, maybe a little.
gib		Is this a common thing for you? Cheating?
helen		No!  Never!
gib		So, it was your first time.
helen		I wasn't cheating!
harry		Tell me about your husband, Mrs Tasker.
helen		Harry?  What can I say about Harry?  He's a sales rep for a computer company.
harry		 Would you say he was boring, then?
helen		 Yeah.  I suppose he is.
gib		So sex with him isn't exactly making your flag wave anymore.
helen		That's none of your goddamn business!  What kind of questions are these?
harry		You're in a lot of trouble, Mrs. Tasker, so I suggest you cooperate.  If we want to know the most intimate details of your life, you'd better tell us.
helen		My husband is a good man.
gib		But he's not exactly ringing your bell lately, right?  I mean--
harry		Let me handle this part.  Do you mind?  Why did you go to Carlos' hideout?
helen		He wanted me to go with him on a mission, to pose as him wife.
harry		And you agreed?
helen		Yes.
harry		 Why?
helen		I don't know.  I guess I needed something...
harry		What did you need?
helen		I needed to feel alive.  I wanted to do something...  outrageous. And... I don't know... it felt good to be needed.  To be trusted.  To be special.
helen		There's so much I wanted to do in this life, and it's like I haven't done any of it.  And the sand's running out of the hourglass.  I want to be able to look back and say:  See!  I did that.  It was wild and it was reckless and outrageous and I fucking did it!  And I frankly don't give a shit if you understand this or not.
harry		This Simon.  Did you sleep with him?
helen		No.
gib		 She's lying.
harry		You didn't have sexual relations with him?
helen		 Look, if you ask me everything twice, this is going to take a really long time.  And I have to get home to my family.
gib		You're not going anywhere.
helen		Let me out of her!  Right now!
harry		Answer the question--
helen		 You hear me, you chickenshit bastards--
gib		She could be telling the truth.
harry		 Wait!  Calm down, Mrs. Tasker. There is only one more question.
helen		What?
harry		Do you still love your husband?
helen		 Yes.
harry		Louder please.
helen		I love him.  I have always loved him and I will always love him.  Can I go home, please?
gib		Now what?
harry		 There is only one solution to your problem, Mrs. Tasker.  You must work for us.
gib		 Oh shit.  Harry... what're you doing?
harry		 I am offerring you a choice.  If you work for us we will drop the charges and you can go back to your normal life.  If not, you will go to federal prison, and your husband and daughter will be left humiliated and alone.  Your like will be destroyed.
helen		Oh, gee thanks.  Mmmm, let me see--
harry		Yes or no.
helen		What do you think?  Of course yes!  What's involved?
harry		You will be contacted with the assignment.
helen		My husband can't know about this.
harry		No one must know!  Especially him.  You must appear to live your life normally, conveying nothing.  The security of this nation depends on it.  Can you do that?
helen		I think so.
harry		Think carefully.  You will be lying to the man you love.  The person who trusts you the most.
helen		 I can do it!
harry		The code name of your contact will be Boris.  Your code name will be--
helen		 Natasha?
harry		No.  Doris.
simon		Yeeaoowww!!
harry		You son of a bitch.  Did you really think you could elude us forever, Carlos?
simon		Wait!  You got the wrong guy.  My name's Simon.  Look, just let me go.  There's no need to kill me. I haven't seen your--
simon		-- face.  Shit!  Shit!!
simon		It's you!  Hey, you still interested in that Vette at all?
gib		You can drop it now, Carlos.  The game is over.  Your career as an inter-national terrorist is too well documented.
simon		No... I sell cars.  That's all! Not even foreign cars.  Nothing international, I swear.  I'm no terrorist.  Everything I said was a lie... you have to believe me. I'm actually a complete coward. If I ever even saw a gun I'd--
simon		-- faint.  Aahhh!  Don't kill me. I'm not a spy.  I'm nothing.  I'm navel lint.  I have to lie to women to get laid.  And I don't score much.  It's pathetic.  See, look... would a spy pee himself?
harry		Beat it.
simon		No.  Soon as I turn you'll shoot me.
simon		Please don't.  You can have the car for free--
gib		Take off, dipshit!
harry		We should pick up visual at the next light.
harry		Morning, boss.
trilby		Harry, this report on last night's operation is the thinnest piece of crap I've ever seen from you.  I'm sure you won't mind giving me a little more detail on why all these assets were deployed.
harry		Absolutely.  But can it wait? I'm on a critical surveillance right now.
trilby		Harry.  Is there anything you want to tell me?
harry		 No.  Not that I can think of.
trilby		Harry?  You know we never fire anybody.
gib		We're dead, right?  So... where'd you put the transmitter?
harry		In her Walkman.  It's the one thing I knew she'd be taking.
figure		You! Come with me.
dana		Oh my Gooooood.
harry		There are going to be some changes Dana.  You're going to start following some rules.  And I'm going to be there to see that you do.
dana		Yeah, right.
harry		You're going to stay in school. Do you understand?
dana		Why?  So I can wind up like you? What's the point?
harry		Did I tell you about the time we first met?
harry		You were quite young at the time. All wet and still attached to your mom by a cord.  You opened your eyes and looked right at me. And I knew then I would always love you with all my heart.
harry		Somewhere along the way I got lost, honey.  I forgot about what was really important.  I'm sorry pump-- I mean--
harry		Dana, regarding this singing--
harry		 You were pretty good.
dana		Dad, how come you know the words?
harry		Honey that song came out in 1968, when I was exactly your age.
dana		Unbelievable!  Trent told me he wrote it.  He's history.
dana		I'm done.
helen		Where are you off to young lady?
dana		 I have a book report.
harry		So last night was pretty exciting, huh?
helen		 Oh, the flat tire?  Yeah, I thought the damn towtruck was never going to get there.
helen		Hello?
metallic voice		Doris?
helen		Oh.  Yes?
gib		Listen carefully.  Go to the Hotel Marquis in one hour.  Pick up an envelope marked Doris at the front desk.  And dress sexy.
helen		What?
voice		Get going! 
helen		 Uh... well, okay then.  You sound terrible.  I'll run out right now.  Just call the prescription in to the pharmacy.  Sure, no problem.  Bye.
helen		Allison is sick in bed.  I have to go over there, honey.
harry		Sure, hon.
gib		You've reached a new low with this one.  I can't believe you're crazy enough to use the room at the Marquis.
harry		Why not?  You think I can afford a suite like that on my salary? Is Jean-Claude done yet?                               *
gib		Not quite.
helen		Do you have an envelope for Doris?
metallic voice		Listen.  You are a prostitute named Michelle.  Go to the room. A man will be there.  He is a suspected arms dealer.
helen		Do I have to... you know-- ?
voice		No.  He has particular tastes. He likes to watch.  You will say his regular girl, Carla, is sick. If he likes you, he will tell you what to do.  You must plant the bug near the telephone, by the bed, before you leave.  If you do not accomplish your mission, the deal is off.
voice		In here.
man		Step into the light.
helen		I'm Michelle.  Carla's sick.  She thought you might like me, so --
helen		 I'm not wearing any.
helen		I thought you only liked to watch.
helen		Harry-- ?!
helen		He's got nothing to do with this. It's me you want, right?
harry		 Let the hooker go.  She's not important.
helen		Harry, be quiet.  Let me handle this.
lead terrorist		Shutup, both of you.
helen		Listen, you don't need him, he's nothing.  He's a sales rep for a computer company, really--
helen		That was unnecessary.
helen		What were you doing there?
harry		You wouldn't believe me.
terrorist leader		Talk again, I kill you.
juno		 Hello, Harry.
harry		Juno.  I wish I could say it's a pleasure to see you again.
helen		You know her?
juno		Who's your little friend?
helen		I'm Helen Tasker.  Harry's my husband.  And you are?
juno		 So now it's Tasker?  Not Renquist?
helen		Look, Harry's not part of this. He's just a sales rep.
juno		No, my dear, he is a federal agent.  He killed two of my colleagues the other night.
helen		No, you don't understand, we've been married for 15 years--
harry		Look, Juno, this is just some whacko hooker I met in the bar.
helen		Harry, what's the matter with you?  Tell them the truth.  We're married, we have a daughter--
harry		 I don't know what this crazy bitch is on.  You should just cut her loose, so we can get down to business.
helen		Oh yeah?  Oh yeah?  Then where did I get this?
juno		Something before take-off?
helen		Oooowww!!  That hurt.  You biii--
juno		She was telling the truth, wasn't she Harry?  She really doesn't know.  Interesting.
malik		Who is this woman?
juno		His wife.
malik		 His wife?  Good.  Bring them.
juno		Incredible, aren't they?  Warrior figures from the Persian Empire of Darius the First, around 500 BC.  I call them "The Four Horsemen".
juno		They're absolutely priceless.
malik		Open it.
malik		Do you know what this is?
harry		Can you give me a clue?  It could be a water heater for all I know.
malik		Do you know why you have been brought here?
helen		N-no.
malik		So that this man can verify to the world that Crimson Jihad is now a nuclear power.
helen		How can Harry do that?  He's a salesman for chrissakes.
malik		If we were wrong about him... then the last thing you see will be your blood spraying in his face.
harry		This is a Soviet MIRV-Six, from an SS-22N launch vehicle.  The warhead contains 14.5 kilos of enriched uranium, with a plutonium trigger.  The nominal yield is 10 kilotons.                             * Release her and I'll cooperate.
harry		What can I say?  I'm a spy.
helen		You bastard!!  You lying son of a bitch!!
harry		I'm sorry, honey.
helen		Don't call me honey!  You don't ever get to call me honey again. You understand?!  You pig!
juno		Here you go, dear.
akbar		Abu!  Look at this!                                    *
helen		You bugged me?!!
gib		Son of a bitch!  Where?
pilot		Miami TCA, we are on final.
gib		Call our DEA contact, tell him I want those choppers flight-ready the second we land.
harry		...and I can verify that they have the arming box and all                            * equipment necessary to detonate the four warheads.  This is absolutely the real thing, gentlemen.
malik		You have killed our women and                          * children, bombed our cities from afar like cowards, and dare to call us terrorists--
malik		-- But now the Oppressed have                          * been given a mighty sword, to                          * strike back at their enemies.                          * Unless the US pulls all military forces out of the Persian Gulf area, immediately and forever, Crimson Jihad will rain fire on one major US city each week until these demands are met...
malik		... First one weapon will be detonated on this uninhabited island as a demonstration of Crimson Jihad's power and our willingness to be humanitarian. However, if there demands are not--
cameraman		Battery, Abu.
malik		Get another one, you moron!
juno		This is Samir.  See if you can guess his specialty.
harry		Oral hygiene?
juno		Not exactly.
helen		 What's going on, Harry?
juno		Samir is just going to ask Harry a few questions.  See, we're not even sure which agency Harry works for.  Now, Samir is absolutely first class, but on the other hand we have Harry, here, who has managed to lie convincingly to the woman he loves for 15 years.  So it will be interesting to see how long he can resist.
samir		 This will help.
harry		You know, you should swab that with alcohol.  I might get an infection.
juno		Because they're very well-funded raving psychotics, and I'm getting a lot of money.
juno		You think I care about their                           * cause?  Or yours?  Not at all.                         * See, America is on top now .  .                        * .  but so was Rome, once.  All                         * civilizations crumble.  One nation succeeding over another. What does it mean in the long run?  The only important thing is to live well.  And...  living                          * well takes money.                                      *
harry		You're damaged goods, lady.
juno		 Did you tell her about us, Harry?
harry		There is no us, you psychotic bitch.
juno		Sure.  Say that now.
juno		Thanks for everything, Harry.  It was good while it lasted.
juno		Now just keep your knees together, and you'll be fine.
helen		Something you obviously have a hard time doing!
juno		Hold that thought.
harry		There was nothing.  I swear.
helen		What did he give you?
harry		 Sodium amytal, maybe some other truth agent.
helen		It makes you tell the truth?
harry		Yes.
helen		Is it working yet?
harry		Ask me a question I would normally lie to.
helen		Are we going to die?
harry		Yup.                                                   *
harry		17 years.
helen		My God.  Have you had to...  have sex with other women in the line of duty?
harry		I don't take those assignments.
helen		What about Juno?
harry		She's really a fox, isn't she?
helen		Did you pork her Harry?
harry		No.  But I wanted to.
helen		 Are you a total lying, scumsucking pig Harry?
harry		Looks that way.
samir		Is there anything you would like to tell me before we start?
harry		Yes.  I'm going to kill you pretty soon.
samir		 I see.  How exactly?
samir		Well, I thought I'd break your neck, then use you as a human shield, then kill the guard with that knife there on your table and take his gun.
samir		 And what makes you think you can do all that?
harry		Because I picked the lock on these handcuffs...
harry		Don't move.
helen		What is it?
harry		 God, you have great legs.
helen		Harry... snap out of it!
harry		Go it, baby.
helen		Tell me something before this stuff wears off and you start lying again.
harry		What?
helen		Do you still love me?
harry		Yes.
helen		As much as you used to?
harry		No.  Much more.
harry		They found the bodies.  Come on--
helen		I married Rambo.                                       *
harry		Let's go. 250 thru   OMITTED                                                          * 253
harry		In ninety minutes a pillar of                          * holy fire will rise at this place                      * as a sign to out enemies.                              *  It is done...
harry		Now no man can stop us.  We are set on our course.  No force can stop us...  ... we're cool, we're badass, blah blah.
helen		If we're on an island, why are they using trucks?
harry		We must be in the Florida Keys .                       * .  .  the Overseas Highway                             * connects the islands to the mainland.
harry		Just us.
helen		What are you going to do?
harry		 Go down there and kill everybody, I guess.
helen		Oh shit.
harry		Wait here.  If you have to use this, use it.  Don't choke. Okay?
harry		 SHOOT!!
helen		Oh my God.  Harry.
juno		My condolences to the window.                          *
juno		Let's go, Suzy Homemaker.
gib		I thought this look like your work.
harry		Let's go.  I'll brief you in the air.
gib		You're welcome.
gib		--you tell the son of bitch this is  Bright Boy Alert.  Repeat, a Bright Boy Alert.  And I need a patch of the White House ASAP. That's right--
harry		 ... the Coast Guard has to clear them back to a twenty mile radius.  Anybody that can't make the minimum safe distance we need an airlift on, immediately--
gib		I can get 3 Marine Corps Harriers here in about 12 minutes. They're on maneuvers out of Boca Chica.
harry		 Get 'em.  I'll brief them on the way in.
juno		Like one?
helen		 Fuck you.
gib		... well get the Highway Patrol to go through the streets and tell everybody on their damn loudspeakers.  Just the basics... get away from windows, don't look at it... yeah--
harry		Here they come.
harry		 Roger, Mike Three Five, you are cleared to engage.  Be advised, your targets have Stingers and light machine guns.
pilot		Copy that, Bright Boy command.  Tally ho.
harry		 Recommend you use your Mavericks                       * to take out the bridge.                                *
harry		Negative, Mike Three Five. That's a negative.  Probably not.
harry		Good shooting, Mike Three Five. I need you to stay on station.                              * Okay.  You see that limo?
helen		You... bitch!!
juno		Shit!
gib		Get lower, goddamnit!  Right now!
harry		Any minute now.
gib		 It's show time.  Don't look at                         * the flash.  Do not look at the flash.
helen		 That's my husband.
gib		Malik's copter landed twenty minutes ago in Miami.  He's on the top of a high-rise downtown. SWAT's on the scene, and I got the cops sealing off the area.                         * He renezvous'd there with about                        * a dozen more faction members.                          * They're barricaded on the                              * twentieth floor.                             * Harry, they have a hostage.  It's                      * Dana.                                                  *
gib		They must have grabbed her during the night... we didn't know. Sorry, Harry, I--
gib		Harry!  We'll get her out!  We                         * have a man inside already .  .                         * .  Harry!!  Aw, shit... here we go.
harry		I need to borrow this thing for a few minutes.
pilot		Excuse me .  .  .  sir?!                               *
gib		I'd like to remind you that it has been ten years since you were actually in one of these.
harry		If I break it they can take it out of my pay.
gib		 It'll be fine.  He's got hundreds of hours in Harriers.  Joint-ops, cross-training and all that.
agent		Harry can fly anything.
gib		He's a little rusty.  It's like riding a bicycle .  .  .  you never forget.  Uh .  .  .  I'd seek shelter!
gib		He's got it.
harry		Sorry.
harry		Tell Helen what's going on.  Tell her I love her.  And ask the pilot where the button for the 20mm cannon is-- never mind.  I found it.
dana		I have to go to the bathroom.
malik		This is a communique from Crimson Jihad.  You have heard from your own expert.  You have seen the Holy fire with your own eyes.  Do not force us to destroy this city.  And do not try to use force against us.  I can trigger this bomb instantly.  All I have to do is turn that key...  ... and five million of your people will die.
reporter		What key?
malik		 That key right there!
malik		 Someone has stolen the key!
dana		 You shoot me, this'll fall.
dana		Don't come any closer.  I'll drop it!  I swear to God.
malik		If you drop it, I will have no reason not to kill you.
malik		Come on, child.  Give me the key.  Don't you want to live?  I give you my word.
dana		No way you whacko.
harry		 Let go baby!  I've got you! Daddy's got you!
harry		Don't touch the stick, baby.
harry		Hi, pumpkin.
helen		... you should have seen your father, standing there all covered with spaghetti sauce.  He looked like such a dope.
harry		I told the guy---  I told the guy, this isn't even my order.
dana		I'm done.
harry		I seem to remember something about a history project that's due tomorrow.
dana		 Dad.  You just think you know everything, don't you?
voice		Boris and Doris?
helen		 Go ahead.
gib		So, what's the scoop, team?  You see your contact yet?
helen		Not yet.  But we'll find him.
harry		Dance?
****Dialogues from script :True_Romance.txt****

clarence		In "Jailhouse Rock" he's everything rockabilly's about. I mean he is rockabilly: mean, surly, nasty, rude. In that movie he couldn't give a fuck about anything except rockin' and rollin', livin' fast, dyin' young, and leaving a good-looking corpse. I love that scene where after he's made it big he's throwing a big cocktail party, and all these highbrows are there, and he's singing, "Baby You're So Square... Baby, I Don't Care". Now, they got him dressed like a dick. He's wearing these stupid-lookin' pants, this horrible sweater. Elvis ain't no sweater boy. I even think they got him wearin' penny loafers. Despite all that shit, all the highbrows at the party, big house, the stupid clothes, he's still a rude-lookin' motherfucker. I'd watch that hillbilly and I'd want to be him so bad. Elvis looked good. I'm no fag, but Elvis was good-lookin'. He was fuckin' prettier than most women. I always said if I ever had to fuck a guy... I mean had too 'cause my life depended on it... I'd fuck Elvis.
lucy		I'd fuck Elvis.
clarence		Really?
lucy		When he was alive. I wouldn't fuck him now.
clarence		I don't blame you.  So we'd both fuck Elvis. It's nice to meet people with common interests, isn't it?
clarence		Well, enough about the King, how 'bout you?
lucy		How 'bout me what?
clarence		How 'bout you go to the movies with me tonight?
lucy		What are we gonna see?
clarence		A Donny Chiba triple feature. "The Streetfighter", "Return of the Streetfighter", and "Sister Streetfighter".
lucy		Who's Sonny Chiba?
clarence		He is, bar none, the greatest actor working in martial arts movies ever.
lucy		 You wanna take me to a kung fu movie?
clarence		 Three kung fu movies.
lucy		 I don't think so, not my cup of tea.
drexl		Nigger, get outta my face with that bullshit.
floyd		Naw man, I don't be eatin' that shit.
drexl		That's bullshit.
floyd		Naw man, that's some serious shit.
drexl		Nigger, you lie like a big dog.
drexl		Floyd say he don't be eatin' pussy.
drexl		I heard that.
floyd		Hold on a second, Big D. You sayin' you eat pussy?
drexl		Preach on, Big D.
floyd		Look here. If I ever did eat some pussy - I would never eat any pussy - but, if I did eat some pussy, I sure as hell wouldn't tell no goddamn body. I'd be ashamed as a motherfucker.
drexl		Heard that.
floyd		Yeah, that's right, laugh. It's so funny, oh it's so funny.  There used to be a time when sisters didn't know shit about gettin' their pussy licked. Then the sixties came an' they started fuckin' around with white boys. And white boys are freaks for that shit -
drexl		- Because it's good!
floyd		Then, after a while sisters use to gettin' their little pussy eat. And because you white boys had to make pigs out of yourselves, you fucked it up for every nigger in the world everywhere.
floyd		Go on pussy-eaters... laugh. You look like you be eatin' pussy. You got pussy-eatin' mugs. Now if a nigger wants to get his dick sucked he's got to do a bunch of fucked-up shit.
floyd		Naw naw!
drexl		Damn skippy. He like it, too.
floyd		Well fuck you guys then! You guys are fucked up!
drexl		Why you trippin'? We jus' fuckin' with ya. But I wanna ask you a question. You with some fine bitch, I mean a brick shithouse bitch - you're with Jayne Kennedy. You're with Jayne Kennedy and you say "Bitch, suck my dick!" and then Jayne Kennedy says, "First things first, nigger, I ain't suckin' shit till you bring your ass over here and lick my bush!" Now, what do you say?
floyd		I tell Jayne Kennedy, "Suck my dick or I'll beat your ass!"
drexl		Nigger, back off, you ain't beatin' shit. Now what would you do.
floyd		I'd say fuck it!
floyd		 Ain't no man have to eat pussy!
drexl		 You tell Jayne Kennedy to fuck it?
floyd		If it came down to who eats who, damn skippy.
drexl		With that terrible mug of yours if Jayne Kennedy told you to eat her pussy, kiss her ass, lick her feet, chow on her shit, and suck her dog's dick, nigger, you'd aim to please.
drexl		In fact, I'm gonna show you what I mean with a little demonstration. Big D, toss me that shotgun.
drexl		 Now, pretend this is Jayne Kennedy. And you're you.
clarence		Good Morning, Daddy. Long time no see.
cliff		Excuse the place, I haven't been entertaining company as of late. Sorry if I'm acting a little dense, but you're the last person in the world I expected to see this morning.
clarence		Yeah, well, tha's OK, Daddy, I tend to have that effect on people. I'm dyin' on thirst, you got anything to drink?
cliff		I think there's a Seven-Up in there.
clarence		 Oh, probably not. Beer? You can drink beer, can't you?
cliff		I can, but I don't.
clarence		 That's about all I ever eat.
cliff		 I'm sorry... I'm his father.
young girl		 Alabama Worley, pleased to meetcha.
clarence		Oh yeah, we got married.  Do you want some beer? Well, if you want some it's here.
clarence		Go to the liquor store -  Where is there a liquor store around here?
cliff		Uh, yeah... there's a party store down 54th.
clarence		 Get a six-pack of something imported. It's hard to tell you what to get 'cause different places have different things. If they got Fosters, get that, if not, ask the guy at the thing what the strongest imported beer he has. Look, since you're making a beer run, would you mind too terribly if you did a foot run as well. I'm fuckin' starvin' to death. Are you hungry too?
alabama		I'm pretty hungry. When I went to the store I was gonna get some Ding-Dongs.
clarence		Well, fuck that shit, we'll get some real food. What would taste good.  What do you think would taste good?
cliff		I'm really not very -
clarence		You know what would taste good? Chicken. I haven't had chicken in a while. Chicken would really hit the spot about now. Chicken and beer, definitly, absolutely, without a doubt.  Where's a good chicken place around here?
cliff		I really don't know.
clarence		You don't know the chicken places around where you live?  Ask the guy at the place where a chicken place is.
clarence		This should cover it, Auggie-Doggie.
alabama		Okee-dokee, Doggie-Daddy.
clarence		Isn't she the sweetest goddamned girl you ever saw in your whole life? Is she a four alarm fire, or what?
cliff		She seems very nice.
clarence		Daddy. Nice isn't the word. Nice is an insult. She's a peach. That's the only word for it, she's a peach. She even tastes like a peach. You can tell I'm in love with her. You can tell by my face, can't ya? It's a dead giveaway. It's written all over it. Ya know what? She loves me back. Take a seat, Pop, we gotta talk -
cliff		Clarence, just shut up, you're giving me a headache! I can't believe how much like your mother you are. You're your fuckin' mother through and through. I haven't heard from ya in three years. Then ya show up all of a sudden at eight o'clock in the morning. You walk in like a goddamn bulldozer... don't get me wrong, I'm happy to see you... just slow it down. Now, when did you get married?
clarence		Daddy, I'm in big fuckin' trouble and I really need your help.
ravencroft		Dick Ritchie?
dick		I'm me... I mean, that's me.
ravencroft		Step inside.
ravencroft		Well, the part you're reading for is one of the bad guys. There's Brian and Marty. Peter Breck's already been cast as Brian. And you're reading for the part of Marty. Now in this scene you're both in a car and Bill Shatner's hanging on the hood.  And what you're trying to do is get him off.  Whenever you're ready.
dick		 Where'd you come from?
ravencroft		 I don't know. He just appeared as magic.
dick		 Well, don't just sit there, shoot him.
ravencroft		That was very good.
dick		Thank you.
ravencroft		If we decided on making him a New York type, could you do that?
dick		Sure. No problem.
ravencroft		Could we try it now?
dick		Absolutely.
dick		Where'd he come from?
ravencroft		 I don't know. He just appeared as magic.
dick		Well, don't just sit there, shoot him.
ravencroft		Well, Mr. Ritchie, I'm impressed. You're a very fine actor.
clarence		Look, I don't know this is pretty heavy-duty, so if you wanna explode, feel free.
cliff		You're always making jokes. That's what you do, isn't it? Make jokes. Making jokes is the one thing you're good at, isn't it? But if you make a joke about this -  - I'm gonna go completely out of my fuckin' head!
cliff		What do you want from me?
clarence		What?
cliff		Stop acting like an infant. You're here because you want me to help you in some way. What do you need from me? You need money?
clarence		Do you still have friends on the force?
cliff		Yes, I still have friends on the force.
clarence		Could you find out if they know anythin'? I don't know they know shit about us. But I don't wanna think, I wanna know. You could find out for sure what's goin' on.  Daddy?
cliff		What makes you think I could do that?
clarence		You were a cop.
cliff		What makes you think I would do that?
clarence		I'm your son.
cliff		You got it all worked out, don't you?
clarence		Look, goddamnit, I never asked you for a goddamn thing! I've tried to make your parental obligation as easy as possible. After Mom divorced you, did I ask you for anything? When I wouldn't see ya for six months to a year at a time, did you ever get your shit about it? No, it was always "OK", "No problem", "You're a busy guy, I understand". The whole time you were a drunk, did I ever point my finger at you and talk shit? No! Everybody else did. I never did. You see, I know that you're just a bad parent. You're not really very good at it. But I know you love me. I'm basically a pretty resourceful guy. If I didn't really need it I wouldn't ask. And if you say no, don't worry about it. I'm gone. No problems.
alabama		The forager's back.
clarence		Thank God. I could eat a horse if you slap enough catsup on it.
alabama		I didn't get any chicken.
clarence		How come?
alabama		It's nine o'clock in the morning. Nothing's open.
cliff		It's about that pimp that was shot a couple of days ago, Drexl Spivey.
wilson		What about him?
cliff		Well, Ted, to tell you the truth, I found out through the grapevine that it might be, and I only said might be, the Drexl Spivey that was responsible for that restaurant break-in on Riverdale.
wilson		Are you still working security for Foster & Langley?
cliff		Yeah, and the restaurant's on my route. And you know, I stuck my nose in for the company to try to put a stop to some of these break-ins. Now, while I have no proof, the name Drexl Spivey kept comin' up Who's case is it?
wilson		McTeague.
cliff		I don't know him. Is he a nice guy? You think he'll help me out?
wilson		I don't see why not. When you gonna come round and see my new place?
cliff		You and Robin moved?
wilson		Shit, are you behind. Me and Robin got a divorce six months ago. Got myself a new place - mirrors all over the bedroom, ceiling fans above the bed. Guy'd have to look as ugly as King Kong not to get laid in this place. I'm serious, a guy'd have to look like a gorilla.
cliff		They have nothing. In fact, they think it's drug related.
clarence		Do tell. Why drug related?
cliff		Apparently, Drexl had a big toe stuck in shit like that.
clarence		No shit?
cliff		Yeah. Drexl had an association with a fella named Blue Lou Boyle. Name mean anything to you?
clarence		Nope.
cliff		If you don't hang around in this circle, no reason it should.
clarence		Who is he?
cliff		Gangster. Drug Dealer. Somebody you don't want on your ass. Look, Clarence, the more I hear about this Drexl fucker, the more I think you did the right thing. That guy wasn't just some wild flake.
clarence		That's what I've been tellin' ya. The guy was like a mad dog. So the cops aren't looking for me?
cliff		Naw, until they hear something better they'll assume Drexl and Blue Lou had a falling out. So, once you leave twon, I wouldn't worry about it.
clarence		Thanks a lot, Daddy. You really came through for me.
cliff		I got some money I can give you -
clarence		Keep it.
cliff		Well, son, I want you to know I hope everything works out with you and Alabama. I like her. I think you make a cute couple.
clarence		We do make a cute couple, don't we?
cliff		Yeah, well, just stay outta trouble. Remeber, you got a wife to think about. Quit fuckin' around.  I love you son.
clarence		This is Dick's number in Hollywood. We don't know where we'll be, but you can get a hold of me through him.
clarence		Bama, we're outta here. Kiss Pops goodbye,
alabama		Bye, Daddy! Hope to see you again real soon.
clarence		 What kind of daughterly smackeroo was that?
alabama		Oh, hush up.
clarence		 We'll send you a postcard as soon as we get to Hollywood.
cliff		Bama, you take care of that one for me. Keep him out of trouble.
alabama		Don't worry, Daddy, I'm keepin' this fella on a short leash.
clarence		 As the sun sets slowly in the west we bid a fond farewell to all the friends we've made... and, with a touch of melancholy, we look forward to the time when we will all be together again.
dick		Hi, Dick here.
clarence		 Heeeellllloooo baaaabbbbbyyyy!!!
dick		 Clarence?
clarence		You got it.
dick		It's great to hear from you.
clarence		Well, you're gonna be seein' me shortly.
dick		You comin' to L.A.? When?
clarence		Tomorrow.
dick		What's up? Why're leavin' Detroit?
clarence		Well, there's a story behind all that. I'll tell you when I see you. By the way, I won't be alone. I'm bringing my wife with me.
dick		Get the fuck outta here!
clarence		I'm a married man.
dick		Get the fuck outta here!
clarence		Believe it or not, I actually tricked a girl into falling in love with me. I'm not quite sure how I did it. I'd hate to have to do it again. But I did it. Wanna say hi to my better half?
alabama		Hi, Dick. I'm Alabama Worley.
dick		Hello, Alabama.
alabama		I can't wait to meet you. Clarence told me all about you. He said you were his best friend. So, I guess that makes you my best friend, too.
clarence		Tell him we gotta go.
alabama		Clarence says we gotta be hittin' it.
dick		What?
clarence		Tell him we'll be hittin' his area some time tomorrow.
alabama		He said don't go nowhere. We'll be there some time tomorrow.
dick		Wait a minute -
clarence		Tell him not to eat anything. We're gonna scarf when we get there.
alabama		Don't eat anything.
dick		Alabama, could you tell Clar -
clarence		Ask him if he got the letter.
alabama		Did you get the letter?
dick		What letter?
alabama		 What letter?
clarence		The letter I sent.
alabama		 The letter he sent.
dick		Clarence sent a letter?
clarence		Has he gotten his mail today?
alabama		Gotten your mail yet?
dick		Yeah, my room-mate leaves it on the TV.
alabama		 Yes.
clarence		Has he looked through it yet?
alabama		 Ya looked through it?
dick		Not yet.
alabama		 Nope.
clarence		Tell him to look through it.
alabama		 Get it.
dick		Let me speak to Clarence.
alabama		 He wants to speak with you.
clarence		No time. Gotta go. Just tell him to read the letter, the letter explains all. Tell him I love him. And tell him, as of tomorrow, all his money problems are over.
alabama		 He can't. We gotta go, but he wants you to read the letter. The letter explains it all. He wants you to know he loves you. And he wants you to know that as of tomorrow, all of your money problems are over.
dick		Money problems?
clarence		Now tell him goodbye.
alabama		Bye-bye.
clarence		Now hang up.
dick		Hello, hello, Clarence? Clarence's wife?... I mean Alabama... hello?
coccotti		 Tell Tooth-pick Vic to go outside and do you-know-what.
coccotti		Do you know who I am, Mr. Worley?
cliff		I give up. Who are you?
coccotti		I'm the Anti-Christ. You get me in a vendetta kind of mood, you will tell the angels in heaven that you had never seen pure evil so singularly personified as you did in the face of the man who killed you. My name is Vincenzo Coccotti. I work as a counsel for Mr. Blue Lou Boyle, the man your son stole from. I hear you were once a cop so I assume you've heard od us before. Am I correct?
cliff		I've heard of Blue Lou Boyle.
coccotti		I'm glad. Hopefully that will clear up the how-full-of-shit-I-am question you've been asking yourself. Now, we're gonna have a little Q and A, and, at the risk of sounding redundant, please make your answers genuine.  Want a Chesterfield?
cliff		No.
coccotti		 I have a son of my own. About you boy's age. I can imagine how painful this must be for you. But Clarence and that bitch-whore girlfriend of his brought this all on themselves. And I implore you not to go down the road with 'em. You can always take comfort in the fact that you never had a choice.
cliff		Look, I'd help ya if I could, but I haven't seen Clarence -
coccotti		Smarts, don't it? Gettin' slammed in the nose fucks you all up. You got that pain shootin' through your brain. Your eyes fill up with water. It ain't any kind of fun. But what I have to offer you. That's as good as it's ever gonna get, and it won't ever get that good again. We talked to your neighbors. They saw a Mustang, a red Mustang, Clarence's red Mustang, parked in front of your trailer yesterday. Mr. Worley, have you seen your son?
cliff		I've seen him.
coccotti		Now I can't be sure of how much of what he told you. So in the chance you're in the dark about some of this, let me shed some light. That whore your boy hangs around with, her pimp is an associate of mine, and I don't just mean pimpin', in other affairs he works for me in a courier capacity. Well, apparently, that dirty little whore found out when we're gonna do some business, 'cause your son, the cowboy and his flame, came in the room blastin' and didn't stop till they were pretty sure everybody was dead.
cliff		What are you talkin' about?
coccotti		I'm talkin' about a massacre. They snatched my narcotics and hightailed it outta there. Wouldda gotten away with it, but your son, fuckhead that he is, left his driver's license in a dead guy's hand. A whore hiding in the commode filled in all the blanks.
cliff		I don't believe you.
coccotti		That's of minor importance. But what's of major fuckin' importance is that I believe you. Where did they go?
cliff		On their honeymoon.
coccotti		I'm gettin' angry askin' the same question a second time. Where did they go?
cliff		They didn't tell me.
cliff		Now, wait a minute and listen. I haven't seen Clarence in three years. Yesterday he shows up here with a girl, sayin' he got married. He told me he needed some quick cash for a honeymoon, so he asked if he could borrow five hundred dollars. I wanted to help him out so I wrote out a check. We went to breakfast and that's the last I saw of him. So help me God. They never thought to tell me where they were goin'. And I never thought to ask.
coccotti		Sicilians are great liars. The best in the world. I'm a Sicilian. And my old man was the world heavyweight champion of Sicilian liars. And from growin' up with him I learned the pantomime. Now there are seventeen different things a guy can do when he lies to give him away. A guy has seventeen pantomimes. A woman's got twenty, but a guy's got seventeen. And if you know 'em like ya know your own face, they beat lie detectors to hell. What we got here is a little game of show and tell. You don't wanna show me nothin'. But you're tellin' me everything. Now I know you know where they are. So tell me, before I do some damage you won't walk away from.
cliff		Could I have one of those Chesterfields now?
coccotti		Sure.
cliff		Got a match?
cliff		Oh, don't bother. I got one.  So you're a Sicilian, huh?
coccotti		 Uh-huh.
cliff		You know I read a lot. Especially things that have to do with history. I find that shit fascinating. In fact, I don't know if you know this or not, Sicilians were spawned by niggers.
coccotti		Come again?
cliff		It's a fact. Sicilians have nigger blood pumpin' through their hearts. If you don't believe me, look it up. You see, hundreds and hundreds of years ago the Moors conquered Sicily. And Moors are niggers. Way back then, Sicilians were like the wops in northern Italy. Blond hair, blue eyes. But, once the Moors moved in there, they changed the whole country. They did so much fuckin' with the Sicilian women, they changed the blood-line for ever, from blond hair and blue eyes to black hair and dark skin. I find it absolutely amazing to think that to this day, hundreds of years later, Sicilians still carry that nigger gene. I'm just quotin' history. It's a fact. It's written. Your ancestors were niggers. Your great, great, great, great, great-grandmother was fucked by a nigger, and had a half-nigger kid. That is a fact. Now tell me, am I lyin'?
coccotti		I haven't killed anybody since 1974. Goddamn his soul to burn for eternity in fuckin' hell for makin' me spill blood on my hands! Go to this comedian's son's apartment and come back with somethin' that tells me where that asshole went so I can wipe this egg off of my face and fix this fucked-up family for good.
lenny		Boss, get ready to get happy.
dick		Hi guys.
clarence		Wow. Neat place.
alabama		... when my mom went into labor, my dad panicked. He never had a kid before, and crashed the car. Now, picture this: their car's demolished, crowd is starting to gather, my mom is yelling, going into contractions, and my dad, who was losing it before, is now completely screaming yellow zonkers. Then, out of nowhere, as if from thin air, this big giant bus appears, and the bus-driver says, "Get her in here.". He forgot all about his route and just drove straight to the hospital. So, because he was such a nice guy, they wanted to name the baby after him, as a sign of gratitude. Well, his name was Waldo, and no matter how grateful they were, even if I'da been a boy, they would't call me Waldo. So they asked Waldo where he was from. And, so there you go.
clarence		And here we are.
dick		That's a pretty amazing story.
clarence		Well, she's a pretty amazing girl. What are women like out here?
dick		Just like in Detroit, only skinnier.
clarence		You goin' out?
dick		Well, for the past couple of years I've been goin' out with girls from my acting class.
clarence		Good for you.
dick		What's so fuckin' good about it? Actresses are the most fucked-in-the-head bunch of women in the world. It's like they gotta pass a test of emotional instability before they can get their SAG card. Oh, guess what? I had a really good reading for "T.J. Hooker" the other day.
alabama		You're gonna be on "T.J. Hooker"?
dick		Knock wood.
dick		... formica. I did real well. I think she liked me.
clarence		Did you meet Captain Kirk?
dick		You don't meet him in the audition. That comes later. Hope, hope.
alabama		 That was so good I am gonna have another.
dick		You can't have just one.
dick		How much of that letter was on the up and up?
clarence		Every word of it.
dick		You're really in love, aren't you?
clarence		For the very first time in my life.  Do you know what that's like?
dick		 How did you two meet?
clarence		Do you remember The Lyric?
alabama		One please.
alabama		Which one is on now?
alabama		Can I have a medium popcorn? A super-large Mr. Pibb, and a box of Goobers.
alabama		Oh, look what happened. Oh god, I'm so sorry. Are you OK?
clarence		Yeah. I'm fine. It didn't hurt.
alabama		I'm the clumsiest person in the world.
clarence		 It's OK. Don't worry about it. Accidents happen.
alabama		 What a wonderful philosophy. Thanks for being such a sweetheart. You could have been a real dick.
alabama		Excuse me... I hate to bother you again. Would you mind too terribly filling me in on what I missed?
clarence		Not at all. I, this guy here, he's Sonny Chiba.
alabama		The oriental.
clarence		The oriental in black. He's an assasin. Now, at the beginning he was hired to kill this guy the cops had. So he got himself arrested. They take him into the police station. And he starts kickin' all the cops' asses. Now, while keepin' them at bay, he finds the guy he was supposed to kill. Does a number on him. Kicks the cops' asses some more. Kicks the bars out of the window. And jumps out into a getaway car that was waiting for him.
alabama		Want some Goobers?
clarence		Thanks a lot.
alabama		I thought Sonny was the good guy.
clarence		He ain't so much good guy as he's just a bad motherfucker. Sonny don't be bullshittin'. He fucks dudes up for life. Hold on, a fight scene's coming up.
alabama		Great movie. Action-packed!
clarence		Does Sonny kick ass or does Sonny kick ass?
alabama		Sonny kicks ass.
clarence		You shoulda saw the first original uncut version of the "Streetfighter". It was the only movie up to that time rated X for violence. But we just saw the R.
alabama		If that was the R, I'd love to see the X.
clarence		My name is Clarence, and what is yours?
alabama		Alabama Whitman. Pleased to meet ya.
clarence		Is that your real name? Really?
alabama		That's my real name, really. I got proof. See.
clarence		Well, cut my legs off and call me Shorty. That's a pretty original moniker there, Alabama. Sounds like a Pam Grier movie.  She's a sixteen-calibre kitten, equally equipped for killin' an' lovin'! She carried a sawed-off shotgun in her purse, a black belt around her waist, and the white-hot fire of hate in her eyes! Alabama Whitman is Pam Grier! Pray for forgiveness, Rated R... for Ruthless Revenge!
clarence		Where's your car? I'll walk you to it.
alabama		I took a cab.
clarence		You took a cab to see three kung fu movies?
alabama		Sure. Why not?
clarence		Nothing. It's just you're a girl after my own heart.
alabama		What time is it?
clarence		'Bout twelve.
alabama		I suppose you gotta get up early, huh?
clarence		No. Not particularly.  How come?
alabama		Well, it's just when I see a really good movie I really like to go out and get some pie, and talk about it. It's sort of tradition. Do you like to eat pie after you've seen a good movie?
clarence		I love to get pie after a movie.
alabama		Would you like to get some pie?
clarence		I'd love some pie.
clarence		Well, enough about the King. How about you?
alabama		How 'bout me what?
clarence		Tell me about yourself.
alabama		There's nothing to tell.
clarence		C'mon. What're ya tryin' to be? The Phantom Lady?
alabama		What do you want to know?
clarence		Well, for starters, what do you do? Where're ya from? What's your favorite color? Who's your favorite movie star? What kinda music do you like? What are your turn-ons and turn-offs? Do you have a fella? What's the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone? And, in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
alabama		Ask me them again. One by one.
clarence		What do you do?
alabama		I don't remember.
clarence		Where are you from.
alabama		Might be from Tallahassee. But I'm not sure yet.
clarence		What's your favorite color?
alabama		I don't remember. But off the top of my head, I'd say black.
clarence		What's your favorite movie star?
alabama		Burt Reynolds.
clarence		Would you like a bite of my pie?
alabama		Yes, I would.
clarence		Like it?
alabama		Very much. Now, where were we?
clarence		What kinda music do you like?
alabama		Phil Spector. Girl group stuff. You know, like "He's a Rebel".
clarence		What are your turn-ons?
alabama		Mickey Rourke, somebody who can appreciate the finer things in life, like Elvis's voice, good kung fu, and a tasty piece of pie.
clarence		Turn-offs?
alabama		I'm sure there must be something, but I don't really remember. The only thing that comes to mind are Persians.
clarence		Do you have a fella?
alabama		I'm not sure yet. Ask me again later.
clarence		What's the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone?
alabama		Apparently, I was hit on the head with something really heavy, giving me a form of amnesia. When I came to, I didn't know who I was, where I was, or where I came from. Luckily, I had my driver's license or I wouldn't even know my name. I hoped it would tell me where I lived but it had a Tallahassee address on it, and I stopped somebody on the street and they told me I was in Detroit. So that was no help. But I did have some money on me, so I hopped in a cab until I saw somethin' that looked familiar. For some reason, and don't ask me why, that theater looked familiar. So I told him to stop and I got out.
clarence		And in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
alabama		Because you looked like a nice guy, and I was a little scared. And I sure couldda used a nice guy about that time, so I spilled my popcorn on you.
alabama		Aren't you just dazzled by my imagination, lover boy?  Where to next?
alabama		Wow. What a swell place to work.
clarence		Yeah, I got the key, so I come here at night, hang out, read comic books, play music.
alabama		How long have you worked here?
clarence		Almost four years.
alabama		That's a long time.
clarence		I'm hip. But you know, I'm comfortable here. It's easy work. I know what I'm doing. Everybody who works here is my buddy. I'm friendly with most of the customers. I just hang around and talk about comic books all day.
alabama		Do you get paid a lot?
clarence		That's where trouble comes into paradise. But the boss let's you borrow some money if you need it. Wanna see what "Spiderman" number one looks like?
alabama		You bet. How much is that worth?
clarence		Four hundred bucks.
alabama		I didn't even know they had stores that just sold comic books.
clarence		Well, we sell other things too. Cool stuff. "Man from U.N.C.L.E." Lunch boxes. "Green Hornet" board games. Shit like that. But comic books are main business. There's a lot of collectors around here.
alabama		What's that?
clarence		That's a "Rookies" doll. George Sanford Brown. We gotta lotta dolls. They're real cool. Did you know they came out with dolls for all the actors in "The Black Hole"? I always found it funny somewhere there's a kid playin' with a little figure of Earnest Borgnine.
clarence		"Spiderman", number one. The one that started it all.
alabama		God, Spiderman looks different.
clarence		He was just born, remember? This is the first one. You know that guy, Dr. Gene Scott? He said that the story of Spiderman is the story of Christ, just disguised. Well, I thought about that even before I heard him say it. Hold on, let me show you my favorite comic book cover of all time.
clarence		"Sgt. Fury and His Howling Commandos". One of the coolest series known to man. They're completely worthless. You can get number one for about four bucks. But that's one of the cool things about them, they're so cheap.  Just look at that artwork, will ya. Great stories. Great Characters. Look at this one.
clarence		Nick's gotten a ring from his sweetheart and he wears it around his neck on a chain. OK, later in the story he gets into a fight with a Nazi bastard on a ship. He knocks the guy overboard, but the Kraut grabs ahold of his chain and the ring goes overboard too. So, Nick dives into the ocean to get it. Isn't that cool?
clarence		Alabama, I'd like you to have this.
alabama		What a cool room!
alabama		Oooooh, you look so cute in your little cowboy outfit. How old were you then?
clarence		Five.
alabama		Oh, you look so cute as little Elvis.
clarence		I finally knew what I wanted when I grew up.
clarence		You know when you sat behind me?
alabama		At the movies?
clarence		Uh-huh, I was tryin' to think of somethin' to say to you, then I thought, she doesn't want me bothering her.
alabama		What would make you think that?
clarence		I dunno. I guess I'm just stupid.
alabama		You're not stupid. Just wrong.
alabama		I love Janis.
clarence		You know, a lot of people have misconceptions of how she died.
alabama		She OD'd, didn't she?
clarence		Yeah, she OD'd. But wasn't on her last legs or anythin'. She didn't take too much. It shouldn't have killed her. There was somethin' wrong with what she took.
alabama		You mean she got a bad batch?
clarence		That's what happened. In fact, when she died, it was considered to be the happiest time of her life. She'd been fucked over so much by men she didn't trust them. She was havin' this relationship with this guy and he asked her to marry him. Now, other people had asked to marry her before, but she couldn't be sure whether they really loved her or were just after her money. So, she said no. And the guy says, "Look, I really love you, and I wanna prove it. So have your lawyers draw up a paper that says no matter what happens, I can never get any of your money, and I'll sign it." So she did, and he asked her, and she said yes. And once they were engaged he told her a secret about himself that she never knew: he was a millionaire.
alabama		So he really loved her?
clarence		Uh-huh.
clarence		What's wrong, sweetheart? Did I do something? What did I do?
alabama		You didn't do nothing.
clarence		Did you hurt yourself?  Whatd'ya do? Step on a thumbtack?
alabama		Clarence, I've got something to tell you. I didn't just happen to be at the theater. I was paid to be there.
clarence		What are you, a theater checker? You check up on the box office girls. Make sure they're not rippin' the place off.
alabama		I'm not a theater checker. I'm a call girl.
clarence		You're a whore?
alabama		I'm a call girl. There's a difference, ya know.  I don't know. Maybe there's not. That place you took me to last night, that comic book place.
clarence		"Heroes For Sale"?
alabama		Yeah, that one. Somebody who works there arranged to have me meet you.
clarence		Who?
alabama		I don't know. I didn't talk with them. The plan was for me to bump into you, pick you up, spend the night, and skip out after you fell asleep. I was gonna write you a note and say that this was my last day in America. That I was leaving on a plane this morning up to Ukraine to marry a rich millionaire, and thank you for making my last day in America my best day.
clarence		That dazzling imagination.
alabama		It's over on the TV. All it says is: "Dear Clarence." I couldn't write anymore. I didn't not want to ever see you again. In fact, it's stupid not to ever see you again. Las night... I don't know... I felt... I hadn't had that much fun since Girl Scouts. So I just said, "Alabama, come clean, Let him know what's what, and if he tells you to go fuck yourself then go back to Drexl and fuck yourself."
clarence		Who and what is a Drexl?
alabama		My pimp.
clarence		You have a pimp?
alabama		Uh-huh.
clarence		A real live pimp?
alabama		Uh-huh.
clarence		Is he black?
alabama		He thinks he is. He says his mother was Apache, but I suspect he's lying.
clarence		Is he nice?
alabama		Well, I wouldn't go so far as to call him nice, but he's treated me pretty decent. But I've only been there about four days. He got a little rough with Arlene the other day.
clarence		What did he do to Arlene?
alabama		Slapped her around a little. Punched her in the stomch. It was pretty scary.
clarence		This motherfucker sounds charming!
clarence		Goddamn it, Alabama, you gotta get the fuck outta there! How much longer before he's slappin' you around? Punchin' you in the stomach? How the fuck did you get hooked up with a douche-bag like this in the first place?
alabama		At the bus station. He said I'd be a perfect call girl. And that he knew an agency in California that, on his recommendation, would handle me. They have a very exclusive clientele: movie stars, big businessmen, total white-collar. And all the girls in the agency get a grand a night. At least five hundred. They drive Porsches, live in condos, have stockbrokers, carry beepers, you know, like Nancy Allen in "Dressed to Kill". And when I was ready he'd call 'em, give me a plane ticket, and send me on my way. He says he makes a nice finder's fee for finding them hot prospects. But no one's gonna pay a grand a night for a girl who doesn't know whether to shit or wind her watch. So what I'm doin' for Drexl now is just sorta learnin' the ropes. It seemed like a lotta fun, but I don't really like it much, till last night. You were only my third trick, but you didn't feel like a trick. Since it was a secret, I just pretended I was on a date. An, um, I guess I want a second date.
clarence		Thank you. I wanna see you again too. And again, and again, and again. Bama, I know we haven't known each other long, but my parents went together all throughout high school, and they still got a divorce. So, fuck it, you wanna marry me?
alabama		What?
clarence		Will you be my wife?
alabama		Yes.
clarence		 You will?
alabama		You better not be fucking teasing me.
clarence		You better not be fuckin' teasin' me.
clarence		Did ya ever see "The Chinese Professionals"?
alabama		I don't believe so.
clarence		Well, that's the one that explains how Jimmy Wang Yu became the Incredible One-Armed Boxer.
tv announcer		 We'll return to Jimmy Wang Yu in... "The Incredible One-Armed Boxer vs. the Master of the Flying Guillotine", tonight's eight o'clock movie, after these important messages...
alabama		You better not be fucking teasing me.
alabama		I do.
clarence		Thank you.
clarence		Hello, Mrs. Worley.
alabama		How do you do, Mr. Worley?
clarence		Top o' the morning, Mrs. Worley.
alabama		Bottom of the ninth . Mr. Worley. Oh, by the by, Mr. Worley, have you seen your lovely wife today?
clarence		Oh, you're speaking of my charming wife Mrs. Alabama Worley.
alabama		Of course. Are there others, Mr. Worley?
clarence		Not for me.
alabama		 No no no no no no no no no...
clarence		 Yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes...
pimp		Bitch, you better git yo ass back on the street an' git me my money.
pimp		I'm tellin' you, my man, this bitch is fine. This girl's a freak! You can fuck 'er in the ass, fuck 'er in the mouth. Rough stuff, too. She's a freak for it. Jus' try not to fuck 'er up for life.
pimp		You holdin' out on me, girl? Bitch, you never learn!
pimp		Hang it up, momma. I got no time for this bullshit.
alabama		 Where you goin', honey?
clarence		 I just gotta get somethin'.
familiar voice		 Well? Can you live with it?
clarence		What?
elvis		Can you live with it?
clarence		Live with what?
elvis		With that son-of-a-bitch walkin' around breathin' the same air as you? And gettin' away with it every day. Are you haunted?
clarence		Yeah.
elvis		You wanna get unhaunted?
clarence		Yeah.
elvis		Then shoot 'em. Shoot 'em in the face. And feed that boy to the dogs.
clarence		I can't believe what you're tellin' me.
elvis		I ain't tellin' ya nothin'. I'm just sayin' what I'd do.
clarence		You'd really do that?
elvis		He don't got no right to live.
clarence		Look, Elvis, he is hauntin' me. He doesn't deserve to live. And I do want to kill him. But I don't wanna go to jail for the rest of my life.
elvis		I don't blame you.
clarence		If I thought I could get away with it -
elvis		Killin' 'em's the hard part. Gettin' away with it's the easy part. Whaddaya think the cops do when a pimp's killed? Burn the midnight oil tryin' to find who done it? They couldn't give a flyin' fuck if all the pimps in the whole wide world took two in the back of the fuckin' head. If you don't get caught at the scene with the smokin' gun in your hand, you got away with it.
elvis		Clarence, I like ya. Always have, always will.
clarence		Sweetheart, write down your former address.
alabama		What?
clarence		Write down Drexl's address.
alabama		Why?
clarence		So I can go over there and pick up your things.
alabama		 No, Clarence. Just forget it, babe. I just wanna disappear from there.
clarence		Look, sweetheart, he scares you. But I'm not scared of that motherfucker. He can't touch you now. You're completely out of his reach. He poses absolutely no threat to us. So, if he doesn't matter, which he doesn't, it would be stupid to lose your things, now wouldn't it?
alabama		You don't know him -
clarence		You don't know me. Not when it comes to shit like this. I have to do this. I need for you to know you can count on me to protect you. Now write down the address.
clarence		 Yeah... Yeah...
clarence		Drexl?
clarence		I gotta talk to Drexl.
marty		Well, what the fuck you wanna tell him?
clarence		It's about Alabama.
drexl		Where the fuck is that bitch?
clarence		She's with me.
drexl		Who the fuck are you?
clarence		I'm her husband.
drexl		Well. That makes us practically related. Bring your ass on in.
drexl		 What was I sayin'?
marty		Rock whores.
drexl		You ain't seen nothin' like these rock whores. They ass be young man. They got that fine young pussy. Bitches want the rock they be a freak for you. They give you hips, lips, and fingertips.
drexl		 You know what I'm talkin' about.
drexl		 These bitches over here ain't shit. You stomp them bitches to death to get the kind of pussy I'm talkin' about.
drexl		Looky here, you want the bitches to really fly high, make your rocks with Cherry Seven-Up.
marty		Pussy love pink rocks.
drexl		 Grab a seat there, boy. Want some dinner? Grab yourself an egg roll. We got everything here from a diddle-eyed-Joe to a damned-if-I-know.
clarence		No thanks.
drexl		No thanks? What does that mean? Means you ate before you came down here? All full. Is that it? Naw, I don't think so. I think you're too scared to be eatin'. Now, see we're sittin' down here, ready to negotiate, and you've already given up your shit. I'm still a mystery to you. But I know exactly where your ass is comin' from. See, if I asked you if you wanted some dinner and you grabbed an egg roll and started to chow down, I'd say to myself, "This motherfucker's carryin' on like he ain't got a care in the world. Who know? Maybe he don't. Maybe this fool's such a bad motherfucker, he don't got to worry about nothin', he just sit down, eat my Chinese, watch my TV." See? You ain't even sat down yet. On that TV there, since you been in the room, is a woman with her titties hangin' out, and you ain't even bothered to look. You just been starin' at me. Now, I know I'm pretty, but I ain't as pretty as a couple of titties.
clarence		I'm not eatin' 'cause I'm not hungry. I'm not sittin' 'cause I'm not stayin'. I'm not lookin' at the movie 'cause I saw it seven years ago. It's "The Mack" with Max Julian, Carol Speed, and Richard Pryor, written by Bobby Poole, directed by Michael Campus, and released by Cinerama Releasing Company in 1984. I'm not scared of you. I just don't like you. In that envelope is some payoff money. Alabama's moving on to some greener pastures. We're not negotiatin'. I don't like to barter.  I don't like to dicker. I never have fun in Tijuana. That price is non-negotiable. What's in that envelope is for my peace of mind. My peace of mind is worth that much. Not one penny more, not one penny more.
drexl		It's empty.
drexl		Oooooooooh weeeeeeee! This child is terrible. Marty, you know what we got here? Motherfuckin' Charles Bronson. Is that who you supposed to be? Mr. Majestyk? Looky here, Charlie, none of this shit is necessary. I ain't got no hold on Alabama. I just tryin' to lend the girl a helpin' hand -
drexl		Ya wanna fuck with me?  I'll show ya who you're fuckin' wit!
drexl		 You OK? That stupid dumb-ass didn't break your nose, did he?
marty		Naw. It don't feel too good but it's alright.
drexl		 He must of thought it was white boy day. It ain't white boy day, is it?
marty		 Naw, man, it ain't white boy day.
drexl		 Shit, man, you done fucked up again. Next time you bogart your way into a nigger's crib, an' get all his face, make sure you do it on white boy day.
clarence		 Wannabee nigger...
drexl		Fuck you! My mother was Apache.
drexl		Well, well, well, looky what we got here. Clarence Worley. Sounds almost like a nigger name.  Hey, dummy.
drexl		Before you bought your dumb ass through the door, I didn't know shit. I just chalked it up to au revoir Alabama. But, because you think you're some macho motherfucker, I know who she's with. You. I know who you are, Clarence Worley. And, I know where you live, 4900 116th  street, apartment 48. And I'll make a million-dollar bet, Alabama's at the same address. Marty, take the car and go get 'er. Bring her dumb ass back here.
drexl		 Marty, what the fuck are you doin'?
marty		 I'm tryin' to find my jacket.
drexl		Look in the hamper. Linda's been dumpin' everybody's stray clothes there lately.
marty		 What's happening?
clarence		Get a bag and put Alabama's thing in it!
clarence		You wanna get shot? I ain't got all fuckin' day, so move it!
clarence		 Open you eyes, laughing boy.
clarence		Open your eyes!
clarence		You thought it was pretty funny, didn't you?
clarence		I killed him.
clarence		I've got some food in the car, I'll be right back.
clarence		Help yourself. I got enough. I am fuckin' starvin'. I think I ordered one of everythin'.
clarence		I am so hungry.
alabama		 Was it him or you?
clarence		Yeah. But to be honest, I put myself in that position. When I drove up there I said to myself, "If I can kill 'em and get away with it, I'll do it." I could. So I did.
alabama		Is this a joke?
clarence		No joke. This is probably the best hamburger I've ever had. I'm serious, I've never had a hamburger taste this good.
clarence		Come on, Bama, eat something. You'll feel better.
clarence		Why are you crying? He's not worth one of your tears. Would you rather it had been me? Do you love him?  Do you love him?
alabama		I think what you did was...
clarence		What?
alabama		I think what you did...
clarence		What?
alabama		... was so romantic.
clarence		I gotta get outta these clothes.
alabama		 Clean clothes. There is a god,
alabama		Clarence. Those aren't my clothes.
dick		Holy Mary, Mother of God.
alabama		This is great, we got cable.
clarence		 Bama, you got your blade?
dick		This shit can't be real.
clarence		It'll get ya high.
clarence		Do you want some wine, sweetheart?
alabama		Nope. I'm not really a wine gal.
dick		It's fuckin' real!  It's fuckin' real!
clarence		I certainly hope so.
dick		You've got a helluva lotta coke there, man!
clarence		I know.
dick		Do you have any idea how much fuckin' coke you got?
clarence		Tell me.
dick		I don't know! A fuckin' lot!
dick		This is Drexl's coke?
clarence		Drexl's dead. This is Clarence's coke and Clarence can do whatever he wants with it. And what Clarence wants to do is sell it. Then me and Bama are gonna leave on a jet plane and spend the rest of our lives spendin'. So, you got my letter, have you lined up any buyers?
dick		Look, Clarence, I'm not Joe Cocaine.
clarence		But you're an actor. I hear these Hollywood guys have it delivered to the set.
dick		Yeah, they do. And maybe when I start being a successful actor I'll know those guys. But most of the people I know are like me. They ain't got a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. Now, if you want to sell a little bit at a time -
clarence		No way! The whole enchilada in one shot.
dick		Do you have any idea how difficult that's gonna be?
clarence		I'm offering a half a million dollars worth of white for two hundred thousand. How difficult can that be?
dick		It's difficult because you're sellin' it to a particular group. Big shots. Fat cats. Guys who can use that kind of quantity. Guys who can afford two hundred thousand. Basically, guys I don't know. You don't know. And, more important, they don't know you. I did talk with one guy who could possibly help you.
clarence		Is he big league?
dick		He's nothing. He's in my acting class. But he works as an assistant to a very powerful movie producer named Lee Donowitz. I thought Donowitz could be interested in a deal like this. He could use it. He could afford it.
clarence		What'd'ya tell 'em?
dick		Hardly anything. I wasn't sure from your letter what was bullshit, and what wasn't.
clarence		What's this acting class guy's name?
dick		Elliot.
clarence		Elliot what?
dick		Elliot Blitzer.
clarence		OK, call 'im up and arrange a meeting, so we can get through all the getting to know you stuff.
dick		Where?
clarence		 The zoo.
clarence		 What are you waiting for?
dick		Would you just shut up a minute and let me think?
clarence		What's to think about?
dick		Shut up! First you come waltzing into my life after two years. You're married. You killed a guy.
clarence		Two guys.
dick		Two guys. Now you want me to help you with some big drug deal. Fuck, Clarence, you killed somebody and you're blowin' it off like it don't mean shit.
clarence		Don't expect me to be all broken up over poor Drexl. I think he was a fuckin', freeloadin', parasitic scumbag, and he got exactly what he deserved. I got no pity for a mad dog like that. I think I should get a merit badge or somethin'.
clarence		Look, buddy, I realize I'm layin' some pretty heavy shit on ya, but I need you to rise to the occasion. So, drink some more wine. Get used to the idea, and get your friend to the phone.
elliot		So you guys got five hundred thousand dollars worth of cola that you're unloading -
clarence		Want an animal cracker?
elliot		Yeah, OK.
clarence		Leave the gorillas.
elliot		- that you're unloading for two hundred thousand dollars -
clarence		Unloading? That's a helluva way to describe the bargain of a lifetime.
dick		 Clarence...
elliot		Where did you get it?
clarence		I grow it on my window-sill. The lights really great there and I'm up high enough so you can't see it from the street.
elliot		 Ha ha ha. No really, where does it come from?
clarence		Coco leaves. You see, they take the leaves and mash it down until it's kind of a paste -
elliot		 Look, Dick, I don't -
clarence		 No problem, Elliot. I'm just fuckin' wit ya, that's all. Actually, I'll tell you but you gotta keep it quiet. Understand, if Dick didn't assure me you're good people I'd just tell ya, none of your fuckin' business. But, as a sign of good faith, here it goes: I gotta friend in the department.
elliot		What department?
clarence		What do you think, eightball?
elliot		The police department?
clarence		Duh. What else would I be talking about? Now stop askin' stupid doorknob questions. Well, a year and a half ago, this friend of mine got access to the evidence room for an hour. He snagged this coke. But, he's a good cop with a wife and a kid, so he sat on it for a year and a half until he found a guy he could trust.
elliot		He trusts you?
clarence		We were in Four H together. We've known each other since childhood. So, I'm handling the sales part. He's my silent partner and he knows if I get fucked up, I won't drop dime on him. I didn't tell you nothin' and you didn't hear nothin'.
elliot		Sure. I didn't hear anything.
clarence		 Do I look like a beautiful blond with big tits and an ass that tastes like French vanilla ice-cream?
elliot		What?
clarence		Do I look like a beautiful blond with big tits and an ass that tastes like French vanilla ice-cream?
elliot		 No. No, you don't.
clarence		Then why are you telling me all this bullshit just so you can fuck me?
dick		Clarence...
clarence		 Let me handle this.
elliot		Get it straight, Lee isn't into taking risks. He deals with a couple of guys, and he's been dealing with them for years. They're reliable. They're dependable. And, they're safe.
clarence		Riddle me this, Batman. If you're all so much in love with each other, what the fuck are you doing here? I'm sure you got better things to do with your time than walk around in circles starin' up a panther's ass. Your guy's interested because with that much shit at his fingertips he can play Joe fuckin' Hollywood till the wheels come off. He can sell it, he can snort it, he can play Santa Claus with it. At the price he's payin', he'll be everybody's best friend. And, you know, that's what we're talkin' about here. I'm not puttin' him down. Hey, let him run wild. Have a ball, it's his money. But, don't expect me to hang around forever waitin' for you guys to grow some guts.
lee		Hello.  Elliot, it's Sunday. Why am I talkin' to you on Sunday? I don't see enough of you during the week I gotta talk to you on Sunday? Why is it you always call me when I'm on the windiest street in L.A.?
elliot		 I'm with that party you wanted me to get together with. Do you know what I'm talking about, Lee?
lee		Why the hell are you calling my phone to talk about that?
lee		Are you outta your fuckin' mind?
clarence		 Hello, Lee, it's Clarence. At last we meet.
virgil		Hello, is Dick Ritchie here?
floyd		Naw, he ain't home right now.
virgil		Do you live here?
floyd		Yeah, I live here.
virgil		Sorta room-mates?
floyd		Exactly room-mates.
virgil		Maybe you can help me. Actually, who I'm looking for is a friend of ours from Detroit. Clarence Worley? I heard he was in town. Might be travelling with a pretty girl named Alabama. Have you seen him? Are they stayin' here?
floyd		Naw, they ain't stayin' here. But, I know who you're talkin' about. They're stayin' at the Hollywood Holiday Inn.
virgil		How do you know? You been there?
floyd		No, I ain't been there. But I heard him say. Hollywood Holiday Inn. Kinda easy to remember.
virgil		You're right. It is.
clarence		Lee, the reason I'm talkin' with you is I want to open "Doctor Zhivago" in L.A. And I want you to distribute it.
lee		I don't know, Clarence, "Doctor Zhivago" is a pretty big movie.
clarence		The biggest. The biggest movie you've ever dealt with, Lee. We're talkin' a lot of film. A man'd have ta be an idiot not to be a little cautious about a movie like that. And Lee, you're no idiot.
lee		I'm not sayin' I'm not interested. But being a distributer's not what I'm all about. I'm a film producer, I'm on this world to make good movies. Nothing more. Now, having my big toe dipped into the distribution end helps me on many levels.
lee		 But the bottom line is: I'm not Paramount. I have a select group of distributers I deal with. I buy their little movies. Accomplish what I wanna accomplish, end of story. Easy, business-like, very little risk.
lee		Well, then, what's the hurry? Is it true the rights to "Doctor Zhivago" are in arbitration?
clarence		I wanna be able to announce this deal at Cannes. If I had time for a courtship, Lee, I would. I'd take ya out, I'd hold your hand, I'd kiss you on the cheek at the door. But, I'm not in that position. I need to know if we're in bed together, or not. If you want my movie, Lee, you're just gonna have to come to terms with your Fear and Desire.
clarence		 He wants to talk ya.
elliot		 Sure thing.
elliot		He says Wednesday at three o'clock at the Beverly Wilshire. He wants everybody there.  He'll talk to you. If after talkin' to you he's convinced you're OK, he'll do business. If not, he'll say fuck it and walk out the door. He also wants a sample bag.
clarence		No problems on both counts.
clarence		Have a cookie.
elliot		Thanks.
clarence		That wasn't a gorilla, was it?
alabama		You did it, Quickdraw. I'm so proud of you. You were like a ninja. Did I do my part OK?
clarence		Babalouey, you were perfect, I could hardly keep from busting up.
alabama		I felt so stupid just blowing those bubbles.
clarence		You were chillin', kind of creepy even. You totally fucked with his head. I'm gonna go grab dinner.
alabama		I'm gonna hop in the tub and get all wet, and slippery, and soapy. Then I'm gonna lie in the waterbed, not even both to dry off, and watch X-rated movies till you get your ass back to my lovin' arms.
clarence		We now return to "Bullit" already in progress.
alabama		Thank you.
virgil		 Step inside and shut the door.
virgil		 Lady. I'm gonna shoot you in the face.
virgil		Step away from the door, move into the bathroom.
virgil		OK, Alabama, where's our coke, where's Clarence, and when's he coming back.
alabama		I think you got the wrong room, my name is Sadie. I don't have any Coke, but there's a Pepsi machine downstairs. I don't know any Clarence, but maybe my husband does. You might have heard of him, he plays football. Al Lylezado. He'll be home any minute, you can ask him.
virgil		You're cute.
clarence		 "Land of stardust, land of glamour, Vistavision and Cinema, Everything about it is a must, To get to Hollywood, or bust..."
virgil		Hurts, don't it? It better. Took me a long time to kick like that. I'm third-degree blackbelt, you know? At home I got trophies. Tournaments I was in. Kicked all kinds of ass. I got great technique. You ain't hurt that bad. Get on your feet, Fruitloop.
virgil		Where's our coke? Where's Clarence? And when he's comin' back?
alabama		Go take a flying fuck and a rolling donut.
virgil		Whatsamatta? Can't breathe? Get used to it.
clarence		Woah! Smells like hamburgers in here! What's the biggest, fattest hamburger you guys got?
iranian guy		That would be Steve's double chili cheeseburger.
clarence		Well, I want two of them bad boys. Two large orders of chili fries. Two large Diet Cokes.  And I'll tell you what, why don't you give me a combination burrito as well.
virgil		You think your boyfriend would go through this kind of shit for you? Dream on, cunt. You're nothin' but a fuckin' fool. And your pretty face is gonna turn awful goddamn ugly in about two seconds. Now, where's my fuckin' coke?
virgil		Where's Clarence?!
virgil		When's Clarence getting back?
virgil		You gotta lot of heart, kid.
clarence		That's a great issue.
customer		Yeah, I subscribe. It's a pretty decent one.
clarence		Have you read the story on Elvis?
customer		No. Not yet.
clarence		You know, I saw it on the stands, my first inclination was to buy it. But, I look at the price and say forget it, it's just gonna be the same old shit. I ended up breaking down and buying it a few days later. Man, I was ever wrong.
customer		That good, huh?
clarence		It tried to pin down what the attraction is after all these years. It covers the whole spectrum of fans, the people who love his music, the people who grew up with him, the artists he inspired - Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, and the fanatics, like these guys. I don't know about you, but they give me the creeps.
customer		I can see what you mean.
clarence		Like, look at her. She looks like she fell off an ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down. Elvis wouldn't fuck her with Pat Boone's dick.
virgil		Now the first guy you kill is always the hardest. I don't care if you're the Boston Strangler or Wyatt Earp. You can bet that Texas boy, Charles Whitman, the fella who shot all them guys from that tower, I'll bet you green money that that first little black dot that he took a bead on, was the bitch of the bunch. No foolin' the first one's a tough row to hoe. Now, the second one, while it ain't no Mardi Gras, it ain't half as tough row to hoe. You still feel somethin' but it's just so deluted this time around. Then you completely level off on the third one. The third one's easy. It's gotten to the point now I'll do it just to watch their expressions change.
virgil		Well, well, well, looky here. I guess I just reached journey's end. Great. One less thing I gotta worry about.
virgil		OK, Sugarpop, we've come to what I like to call the moment of truth -
virgil		Kid, you got a lotta heart.
virgil		Tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna give you a free swing. Now, I only do that for people I like.
virgil		Go ahead, girl, take a stab at it.  You don't have anything to lose.
virgil		OK, no more Mr. Nice-guy.
virgil		What's so fuckin' funny?!!
alabama		 You look so ridiculous.
virgil		Laugh it up, cunt. You were in hysterics a minute ago. Why ain't you laughing now?
virgil		Oh Jesus!
virgil		Oh Mary, help me!
alabama		Lord, make me an instrument of Thy peace; where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where there is doubt, faith; where there is despair, hope; where there is darkness, light; and where there is sadness, joy. O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to console; to be understood as to understand; to be loved as to love; for it is in giving that we receive, it is pardoning that we are pardoned, and it is in dying that we are born to eternal life.
clarence		Honey?
clarence		Sweetheart? Cops are gonna be here any minute,
clarence		Sleep baby. Don't dream. Don't worry. Just sleep. You deserve better than this. I'm so sorry. Sleep my angel. Sleep peacefully.
clarence		I feel so horrible about what she went through. That fucker really beat the shit out of her. She never told him where I was. It's like I always felt that the way she felt about me was a mistake. She couldn't really care that much. I always felt in the back of my mind, I don't know, she was jokin'. But, to go through that and remain loyal, it's very easy to be unraptured with words, but to remain loyal when it's easier, even excusable, not to - that's a test of oneself. That's a true romance. I swear to God, I'll cut off my hands and gouge out my eyes before I'll every let anything happen to that lady again.
elliot		Fuck! I knew it! I fucking knew it! I should have my head examined, driving like this!  Kandi, you gotta help me.
kandi		What can I do?
elliot		You gotta hold this for me.
kandi		You must be high. Uh-huh. No way.
elliot		 Just put it in your purse.
kandi		I'm not gonna put that shit in my purse.
elliot		They won't search you. I promise. You haven't done anything.
kandi		No way, Jos.
elliot		Please, they'll be here any minute. Just put it in your bra.
kandi		I'm not wearing a bra.
elliot		 Put it in your pants.
kandi		No.
elliot		You're the one who wanted to drive fast.
kandi		Read my lips.
elliot		After all I've done for you, you fuckin' whore!!
nicholson		Look, sunshine, we found a sandwich bag of uncut cocaine -
dimes		Not a tiny little vial -
nicholson		But a fuckin' baggie.
dimes		No don't sit here and feed us some shit.
nicholson		You got caught. It's all fun and fuckin' games till you get caught. But now we gotcha. OK, Mr. Elliot actor, you've just made the big time -
dimes		You're no longer an extra -
nicholson		Or a bit player -
dimes		Or a supporting actor -
nicholson		You're a fuckin' star! And you're gonna be playin' your little one-man show nightly for the next two fuckin' years for a captive audience -
dimes		But there is a bright side though. If you ever have to play a part of a guy who gets fucked in the ass on a daily basis by throat-slitting niggers, you'll have so much experience to draw on -
nicholson		And just think, when you get out in a few years, you'll meet some girl, get married, and you'll be so understanding to your wife's needs, because you'll know what it's like to be a woman.
dimes		'Course you'll wanna fuck her in the ass. Pussy just won't feed right anymore -
nicholson		That is, of course, if you don't catch Aids from all your anal intrusions.
krinkle		Nicholson! Dimes! Het in here!
dimes		Krinkle, this is it. We got it, man. And it's all ours. I mean talk about fallin' into somethin'. You shoulda seen it, it was beautiful. Dimes is hittin' him from the left about being fucked in the ass by niggers, I'm hittin' him form the right about not likin' pussy anymore, finally he starts  cryin', and then it was all over -
nicholson		Krinkle, you're lookin' at the two future cops of the month. We have it, and if I say we, I don't mean me and him, I'm referring to the whole department. Haven't had a decent bust this whole month. Well, we mighta come in like a lamb, but we're goin' out like a lion -
krinkle		Both you, idiots shut up, I can't understand shit! Now, what's happened, what's going on, and what are you talking about?
dimes		Okee-dokee. It's like this, Krinkle; a patrol car stops this dork for speeding, they walk up to window and the guy's covered in coke. So they bring his ass in and me an' Nicholson go to work on him.
nicholson		Nicholson and I.
dimes		Nicholson and I go to work on him. Now er know somthing's rotten in Denmark, 'cause this dickhead had a big bag, and it's uncut, too, so we're sweatin' him, trying to find out where he got it. Scarin' the shit outta him.
nicholson		Which wasn't too hard, the guy was a real squid.
dimes		So we got this guy scared shitless and he starts talkin'. And, Krinkle, you ain't gonna fuckin' believe it.
coccotti		- And so, tomorrow morning comes, and no Virgil. I check with Nick Cardella, who Virgil was supposed to leave my narcotics with, he never shows. Now, children, somebody is stickin' a red-hot poker up my asshole and what I don't know is whose hand's on the handle.
coccotti		It's possible. Anybody can be carried away with delusions of grandeur. But after that incident in Ann Arbor, I trust Virgil.
coccotti		Anybody who clams up and does hid time, I don't care how I feel about him personally, he's OK.
nicholson		It seems a cop from some department, we don't know where, stole a half a million dollars of coke from the property cage and he's been sittin' on it for a year and a half. Now the cops got this weirdo -
dimes		Suspect's words -
nicholson		To front for him. So Elliot is workin' out the deal between them and his boss, a big movie producer named Lee Donowitz.
dimes		He produced "Coming Home in a Body Bag".
krinkle		That Vietnam movie?
dimes		Uh-huh.
krinkle		That was a good fuckin' movie.
dimes		Sure was.
krinkle		Do you believe him?
dimes		I believe he believes him.
nicholson		He's so spooked he'd turn over his momma, his daddy, his two-panny granny, and Anna and the King of Siam if he had anything on him.
dimes		This rabbit'll do anything not to do time, including wearing a wire.
krinkle		He'll wear a wire?
dimes		We talked him into it.
krinkle		Dirty cops. We'll have to bring in internal affairs on this.
dimes		Look, we don't care if you bring in the state milita, the volunteer fire department, the L.A. Thunderbirds, the ghost of Steve McQueen, and the twelve Roman gladiators, so long as we get credit for the bust.
nicholson		Cocaine. Dirty cops. Hollywood. This is Crocket and Tubbs all the way. And we found it, so we want the fuckin' collar.
lenny		Excuse me, Mr. Coccotti.  Do you know Nick Cardella?
marvin		No.
lenny		Then where the hell do you get off talkin' that kind of talk?
marvin		I didn't mean -
lenny		Shut your mouth. Nick Cardella was provin' what his words was worth before you were in your daddy's nutsack. What sun do you walk under you can throw a shadow on Nick Cardella? Nick Cardella's a stand-up guy.
coccotti		Children, we're digressing. Another possibility is that rat-fuck whore and her wack-a-doo cowboy boyfriend out-aped Virgil. Knowing Virgil, I find that hard to believe. But they sent Drexl to hell, and Drexl was no faggot. So you see, children, I got a lot of questions and no answers. Find out who this wing-and-a-prayer artist is and take him off at the neck.
clarence		Ya know, I used to fuckin' hate airports.
alabama		Really?
clarence		With a vengeance, I hated them.
alabama		How come?
clarence		I used to live by one back in Dearborn. It's real frustratin' to be surrounded by airplanes when you ain't got shit. I hated where I was, but I couldn't do anythin' about it. I didn't have enough money. It was tough enough just tryin' to pay my rent every month, an' here I was livin' next to an airport. Whenever I went outside, I saw fuckin' planes take off drownin' out my show. All day long I'm seein', hearin' people doin' what I wanted to do most, but couldn't.
alabama		What?
clarence		Leavin' Detroit. Goin' off on vacations, startin' new lives, business trips. Fun, fun, fun, fun.
clarence		But knowin' me and you gonna be nigger-rich gives me a whole new outlook. I love airports now. Me 'n' you can get on any one of those planes out there, and go anywhere we ant.
alabama		You ain't kiddin', we got lives to start over, we should go somewhere where we can really start from scatch.
clarence		I been in America all my life. I'm due for a change. I wanna see what TV in other countries is like. Besides, it's more dramatic. Where should we fly off to, my little turtledove?
alabama		Cancoon.
clarence		Why Cancoon?
alabama		It's got a nice ring to it. It sounds like a movie. "Clarence and Alabama Go to Cancoon". Don't 'cha think?
clarence		But in my movie, baby, you get the top billing.
clarence		Don't you worry 'bout anything. It's all gonna work out for us. We deserve it.
clarence		 You sure that's how you get to the Beverly Wilshire?
floyd		I've partied there twice. Yeah, I'm sure.
dick		Yeah, well if we got lost, it's your ass.  Come on, Clarence, lets go. Elliot's going to meet us in the lobby.
clarence		I'm just makin' sure we got everything.  You got yours?
floyd		Hello?
floyd		Dick, it's for you. You here?
dick		No. I left.
dick		I'll take it.  Bye-bye.
dick		 I got the part on "T.J. Hooker".
clarence		No shit? Dick, that's great!
dick		 They didn't even want a callback. They just hired me like that. Me and Peter Breck are the two heavies. We start shooting Monday. My call is for seven o'clock in the morning.
clarence		Ah, Dick, let's talk about it in the car. We can't be late.
dick		Clarence.
clarence		Yeah?
dick		Um, nothing, let's go?
dimes		OK, say something.
elliot		 Hello! Hello! Hello! How now brown cow!
nicholson		Just talk regular.
elliot		 "But soft! What light through yonder window breaks? It is the east and Juliet is the sun. Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon, Who is already sick and pale with grief -"
dimes		Are you gettin' this shit?
dimes		Now, remember, we'll be monitoring just down the hall.
elliot		And if there's any sign of trouble you'll come in.
nicholson		Like gang-busters. Now, remember, if you don't want to go to jail, we gotta put your boss in jail.
dimes		We have to show in court that, without a doubt, a successful man, an important figure in the Hollywood community, is also dealing cocaine.
nicholson		So you gotta get him to admit on tape that he's buying this coke.
wurlitzer		And this fellow Clarence?
elliot		Yeah, Clarence.
wurlitzer		You gotta get him name the police officer behind all this.
elliot		I'll try.
dimes		You do more than try.
nicholson		You do.
dimes		Hope you're a good actor, Elliot.
dick		You got that playing basketball?
alabama		Yeah. I got elbowed right in the eye. And if that wasn't enough, I got hurled the ball when I'm not looking. Wam! Right in my face.
clarence		Red light means love, baby.
clarence		I'll take that. Now, remember, both of you, let me do the talking.
dick		What the fuck did you bring that for.
clarence		In case.
dick		In case of what?
clarence		In case they try to kill us. I don't know, what do you want me to say?
dick		Look, Dillinger, Lee Donowitz is not a pimp -
clarence		I know that Richard. I don't think I'll need it. But something this last week has taught me, it's better to have a gun and not to need it than to need a gun and not to have it.
clarence		Hold it, guys. I don't know about the rest of you, but I'm pretty scared. What say we forget the whole thing.
dick		Do you really mean it?
clarence		No, I don't really mean it. Well, I mean, this is our last chance to think about it. How 'bout you, Bama?
alabama		I thought it was what you wanted, Clarence.
clarence		It is what I want. But I don't want to spend the next ten years in jail. I don't want you guys to go to jail. We don't know what could be waiting for us up there. It'll probably be just what it's supposed to be. The only thing that's waiting for us is two hundred thousand dollars. I'm just looking at the downside.
dick		Now's a helluva time to play "what if".
clarence		This is our last chance to play "what if". I want to do it. I'm just scared of getting caught.
alabama		It's been fun thinking about the money but I can walk away from it, honey.
clarence		That rhymes.
dick		Well, if we're not gonna do it, let's just get in the car and get the fuck outta here.
clarence		Yeah, let's just get outta here.
clarence		I'm sorry guys, I gotta do it. As petrified as I am, I just can't walk away. I'm gonna be kicking myself in the ass for the rest of my life if I don't go in there. Lee Donowitz isn't a gangster lookin' to skin us, and he's not a cop, he's a famous movie producer lookin' to get high. And I'm just the man who can get him there. So what say we throw caution to the wind and let the chips fall where they may.
elliot		 There's a man who leads a life of danger, To everyone he meets he stays a stranger. Be careful what you say, you'll give yourself away...
elliot's voice		 ... odds are you won't live to see tomorrow, secret agent man, secret agent man....
dimes		Why, all of the sudden, have I got a bad feeling?
elliot		Elliot, your motivation is to stay out of jail.
elliot		Where's everybody else?
clarence		They'll be along.
elliot		Hi, Dick.
dick		How you doin', Elliot?
clarence		Well, I guess it's about that time.
elliot		I guess so. Follow me.
clarence		Elliot.
elliot		Yeah?
clarence		Get on your knees.
elliot		What?
clarence		I said get on your fuckin' knees.
clarence		Shut up, both of you, I know what I'm doin'.
dimes		He knows.
nicholson		How the fuck could he know?
dimes		He saw the wire.
nicholson		How's he supposed to see the wire?
dimes		He knows something's up.
clarence		You must think I'm pretty stupid, don't you?
clarence		Don't you?
elliot		 No.
clarence		 Don't lie to me, motherfucker. You apparently think I'm the dumbest motherfucker in the world! Don't you? Say: Clarence, you are without a doubt, the dumbest motherfucker in the whole wide world. Say it!
nicholson		We gotta get him outta there.
dimes		Whatta we gonna do? He's in an elevator.
elliot		You are the dumbest person in the world.
clarence		Apparently I'm not as dumb as you thought I am.
elliot		No. No you're not.
clarence		What's waiting for us up there. Tell me or I'll pump two right in your face.
dimes		This guy's gonna kill him.
clarence		Like Nick Carter used to say: I I'm wrong, I'll apologize. I want you to tell me what's waiting for us up there. Something's amiss. I can feel it. If anything out of the ordinary goes down, believe this, you're gonna be the first one shot. Trust me, I am AIDS, you fuck with me, you die. Now quit making me mad and tell me why I'm so fucking nervous.
dimes		He's bluffin', I knew it. He doesn't know shit.
nicholson		Don't blow it, Elliot. He's bluffin'. He just told you so himself.
dimes		You're an actor, so act, motherfucker.
clarence		OK.
elliot		I don't wanna be here. I wanna go home. I wish somebody would just come and get me 'cause I don't like this. This is not what I thought it would be. And I wish somebody would just take me away. Just take me away Come and get me. 'Cause I don't like this anymore. I can't take this. I'm sorry but I just can't. So, if somebody would just come to my rescue, everything would be alright.
cops' room		 Nicholson and Dimes shake their hands, They have a "well, that's that" expression an their faces.  BACK TO:
clarence		Sorry, Elliot. Nothing personal. I just hadda make sure you're all right. I'm sure. I really apologize for scaring you so bad, but believe me, I'm just as scared as you. Friends?
cops' room		 Nicholson and Dimes listen open-mouthed, not believing what they're hearing.
floyd		 It's open.
floyd		Yes.
lenny		Are you Dick Ritchie?
floyd		No.
lenny		Do you know a Clarence Worley?
floyd		Yes.
lenny		Do you know where we can find him?
floyd		He's at the Beverly Wilshire.
lenny		Where's that?
floyd		Well, you go down Beechwood...
monty		Hi, Elliot. Are these your friends?
elliot		You could say that. Everybody, this is Monty.
monty		C'mon in. Lee's in the can. He'll be out in a quick.
monty		Sorry, nothin personal.
clarence		No need to search me, daredevil. All you'll find is a .38 calibre.
boris		What compelled you to bring that along?
clarence		The same thing that compelled you, Beastmaster, to bring rapid-fire weaponry to a business meeting.
boris		I'll take that.
clarence		You'll have to.
lee		They're here. Who's who?
elliot		Lee, this is my friend Dick, and these are his friends, Clarence and Alabama.
boris		 This guy's packin'.
lee		Really?
clarence		Well, I have to admit, walkin' through the door and seein' these "Soldier of Fortune" poster boys made me a bit nervous. But, Lee, I'm fairly confident that you came here to do business, not to be a wise-guy. So, if you want, I'll put the gun on the table.
lee		I don't think that'll be necessary. Let's all have a seat. Boris, why don't you be nice and get coffee for everybody.
clarence		Oh, Mr. Donowitz -
lee		Lee, Clarence . Please don't insult me. Call me Lee.
clarence		OK, sorry, Lee. I just wanna tell you "Coming Home in a Body Bag" is one of my favorite movies. After "Apocalypse Now" I think it's the best Vietnam movie ever.
lee		Thank you very much, Clarence.
clarence		You know, most movies that win a lot of Oscars, I can't stand. "Sophie's Choice", "Ordinary People", "Kramer vs. Kramer", "Gandhi". All that stuff is safe, geriatric, coffee-table dog shit.
lee		I hear you talkin' Clarence. We park our cars in the same garage.
clarence		Like that Merchant-Ivory clap-trap. All those assholes make are unwatchable movies from unreadable books.
lee		Clarence, there might be somebody somewhere that agrees with you more than I do, but I wouldn't count on it.
clarence		They ain't plays, they ain't books, they certainly ain't movies, they're films. And do you know what films are? They're for people who don't like movies. "Mad Max", that's a movie. "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly", that's a movie. "Rio Bravo", that's a movie. "Rumble Fish", that's a fuckin' movie. And, "Coming Home in a Body Bag", that's a movie. It was the first movie with balls to win a lot of Oscars since the "The Deer Hunter".
dimes		What's this guy doin'? Makin' a drug deal or gettin' a job on the "New Yorker"?
clarence		My uncle Roger and uncle Cliff, both of which were in Nam, saw "Coming Home in a Body Bag" and thought it was the most accurate Vietnam film they'd ever seen.
lee		You know, Clarence, when a veteran of that bullshit wars says that, it makes the whole project worthwhile. Clarence, my friend, and I call you my friend because we have similar interests, let's take a look at what you have for me.
dimes		Thank God.
clarence		Lee, when you see this you're gonna shit.
lenny		 What was the Jew-boy's name?
marvin		Donowitz, he said.
lenny		Yeah, we're from Warner Bros. What room is Mr. Donowitz in?
clarence		Now, that's practically uncut. You could, if you so desire, cut it a helluva lot more.
lee		Don't worry, I'll desire. Boris, could I have some more coffee.
clarence		Me too, Boris.
lee		 You like a little coffee with your cream and sugar?
clarence		I'm not satisfied till the spoon stands straight up.
lee		I have to hand it to you, this is not nose garbage, this is quality. Can Boris make anybody a sandwich? I got all kinds of sandwich shit from Canters in there.
alabama		No thank you.
dick		No. But thanks.
clarence		No thanks, my stomach's a little upset. I ate somethin' at a restaurant that made me a little sick.
lee		Where'd you go?
clarence		A Norms in Van Nuys.
lee		Bastards. That's why I always eat at Lawreys.
lee		OK, Clarence, the merchandise is perfect. But, whenever I'm offered a deal that's too good to be true, it's because it's a lie. Convince me you're on the level.
dimes		If he don't bite, we ain't got shit except posession.
nicholson		Convince him.
clarence		Well, Lee, it's like this. You're getting the bargain of a lifetime because I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. You're used to dealin' with professionals. I'm not a professional. I'm a rank amateur. I could take that, and I could cut it, and I could sell it a little bit at a time, and make a helluva lot more money. But, in order to do that, I'd have to become a drug dealer. Deal with cut-throat junkies, killers, worry about getting busted all of the time. Just meeting you here today scares the shit outta me, and you're not a junkie, a killer or a cop, you're a fucking movie-maker. I like you, and I'm still scared. I'm a punk kid who picked up a rock in the street, only to find out it's the Hope Diamond. It's worth a million dollars, but I can't get the million dollars for it. But, you can. So, I'll sell it to you for a couple a hundred thousand. You go to make a million. It's all found money to me anyway. Me and my wife are minimum wage kids, two hundred thousand is the world.
lee		Elliot tells me you're fronting for a dirty cop.
clarence		Well, Elliot wasn't supposed to tell you anythin'.  He's not a dirty cop, he's a good cop. He just saw his chance and he took it.
lee		Why does he trust you?
clarence		We grew up together.
lee		If you don't know shit, why does he think you can sell it?
clarence		I bullshitted him.
lee		That's wild. This fucking guy's a madman. I love it. Monty, go in the other room and get the money.
cops' room		 Nicholson and Dimes exchange looks.  DIMES & NICHOLSON Bingo!  BACK TO:
elevator		 The four Wise-guys are coming up.  BACK TO:
lee		 What's your part in this?
alabama		I'm his wife.
lee		 How 'bout you?
dick		I know Elliot.
lee		And Elliot knows me. Tell me, Clarence, what department does you friend work in?
clarence		 Carson County Sheriffs.
cops' room		 The internal affairs officers high five.  BACK TO:
lee		Wanna count your money?
clarence		Actually, they can count it. I'd like to use the little boy's room.
dimes		OK, boys. Let's go get 'em.
elvis		Clarence, I gotta hand it to ya. You were cooler than cool.
clarence		I was dying. I thought for sure everyone could see it on my face.
elvis		All anybody saw was Clint Eastwood drinkin' coffee.
clarence		Can you develop an ulcer in two minutes? Being cool is hard on your body.
elvis		Oh, and your line to Charles Atlas in there: "I'll take that gun", "You'll have to".
clarence		That was cool, wasn't it? You know, I don't even know where that came from. I just opened my mouth and it came out. After I said it I thought, that's a cool line, I gotta remember that.
dimes		You two! Put the guns on the floor and back away.
monty		Fuck you! All you pigs put your guns on the floor and back away.
lee		Monty, what are you talking about? So what they say.
dimes		This is your last warning! Drop those fuckin' guns!
boris		This is your last warning! We could kill all six of ya and ya fuckin' know it! Now get on the floor!
dick		What the fuck am I doing here?
lee		Boris! Everybody's gonna get killed! They're cops!
monty		So they're cops. Who gives a shit?
boris		Lee, something I never told you about me. I don't like cops.
nicholson		OK, let's everybody calm down and get nice. Nobody has to die. We don't want it, and you don't want it.
lee		We don't want it.
wurlitzer		Freeze!
lenny		Who are you guys?
wurlitzer		Police.
dario		 Do we get any extra if we have to kill cops?
clarence		How do you think I'm doin' with Lee?
elvis		Are you kiddin'? He loves you.
clarence		You don't think I'm kissin' his ass, do you?
elvis		You're tellin' him what he wants to hear, but that ain't the same thing as kissin' his ass.
clarence		I'm not lyin' to him. I mean it. I loved "Coming Home in a Body Bag".
elvis		That's why it doesn't come across as ass-kissin', because it's genuine, and he can see that.
elvis		I like ya, Clarence. Always have.
elliot		Officer Dimes? Officer Dimes.
elliot		This has nothing to do with me anymore. Can I just leave and you guys just settle it by yourselves?
dimes		Elliot, shut the fuck up and stay put!
lee		 How did you know his name? How the fuck did he know your name? Why, you fuckin' little piece of shit!
elliot		Lee, understand, I didn't want to -
dimes		Shut the fuck up!
lee		Well, I hope you're not planning on acting any time in the next twenty years 'cause your career is over as of now! You might as weel burn your SAG card! To think I treated you as a son! And you stabbed me in the heart!
dimes		 Cody!!!
alabama		Sweety?
clarence		I... I can't see you... I've got blood in my eyes...
ia officer		 Freeze!
dick		I'm unarmed!
ia officer		Put your hands on your head, you son-of-a-bitch!
dick		Oh shit.
dick		Look, I don't know who you are, but whatever it was that I did to you, I'm sorry.
lenny		Lotsa luck.
alabama		Wake up, goddamn it!
boris		 I'm shot! Stop!
dimes		Throw out your gun, asshole!
dimes		 OK, black jacket! It's two against one now! Toss the gun and lie face down on the floor or die like all you friends.
dick		Oh, God, if you just get me outta this I swear to God I'll never fuck up again. Please, just let me get to "T.J. Hooker" on Monday.
dimes		Don't even give me an excuse, motherfucker.
dimes		Everything's under control here.
wurlitzer		Sorry about Nicholson.
dimes		Me too.
wurlitzer		I'm gonna go see what's goin' on outside.
dimes		You do that.
cop		You! Stop!
lenny		Get back or I'll blow this bitch's brains to kingdom come!
clarence		 She's a sixteen-calibre kitten, equally equipped for killin' an' lovin'! She carried a sawed-off shotgun in her purse, a black belt around her waist, and the white-hot fire of hate in her eyes! Alabama Whitman is Pam Grier! Pray for forgiveness, Rated R... for Ruthless Revenge!
alabama		Bye-bye, Boris. Good luck.
boris		You too, cutie.
wurlitzer		Hey, you!
lenny		I wanna car here, takin' me to the airport, with a plane full of gas ready to take me to Kilimanjaro and... and a million bucks!  Small bills!
alabama		I could have walked away. I told you that. I told you I could have walked away. This is not my fault. I did not do this. You did this one hundred percent to yourself. I'm not gonna give you the satisfaction of feeling bad. I should laugh 'cause you don't deserve any better. I could get another guy like that. I'm hot lookin'. What are you? Dead! Dumb jerk. Asshole. You're a asshole, you're a asshole, you're a asshole. You wanted it all, didn't ya? Didn't ya? Well watcha got now? You ain't got the money. You ain't got me. You ain't even got your body anymore. You got nothin'. Nada. Zip. Goose egg. Nil. Donut.
****Dialogues from script :Truman_Show.txt****

fade in		 A white title appears on a black screen.  "One doesn't discover new lands without consenting to lose sight of the shore for a very long time."  Andre Gide  The title fades off, replaced by a second title.  "We're all in this alone."  Lily Tomlin
truman		Shit!
father		 Truman!  Truman!  Stop!
father		Come down now!
father		 No!
truman		 Why?  What's there?
father		 Come down, please!
father		I told you to stay close.  Don't ever leave my sight again.  You gotta know your limitations.  You could've been washed away by the tide.
truman		 Gimme a copy of "The Sydney Morning Herald".
vendor		We ran out.
truman		 Thanks anyway.
douglas		I wanna be a chiropractor like my dad.
sister		 Tell the class what a chiropractor does, Douglas.
douglas		He helps people by fixing their backs, Sister Olivia.
sister		That's right, Douglas.  Perhaps I'll be your first patient.
sister		What about you, Truman?
truman		I want to be an explorer  ...like Magellan.
sister		No one's going to pay you to do that, Truman.  Besides, you're too late.  There's nothing left to explore.
truman		 ...okay, okay, let's call it what it is... I'm not gonna lie to you...life insurance is death insurance...you just gotta ask yourself two questions...one, in the event of your death, will anyone experience financial loss?...and two, do you care?
truman		 This's no good.  Lumps all drownings together.  I need drownings broken down by category.
truman		 ...just think about what I've been saying and lemme...hello?...
truman		 ...nothing listed?...what about a Sylvia Powers...nothing?  Thanks...
tyrone		 How's it goin', Truman?
truman		 Not bad.  I just won the State Lottery.
tyrone		 Good.  Good.
truman		Tyrone, what if I said I didn't want meatball today?
tyrone		 I'd ask for identification.
female cashier		 He's right there.  You're supposed to pay when he's here.
male customer		 He never notices.
tyrone		Hold on, Truman.  I got somethin' to show ya.
tyrone		 The flagship of Christoforo...our Genoese navigator, huh?  I know you love this like me.
truman		 Not me.  You got the wrong man.
tyrone		See ya tomorrow, Truman.
christof		 You ever pass a car wreck on the side of the road?  They're pulling out a body.  You know you shouldn't look, but you do.
man		Hello?...I'm sorry, I got more than enough insurance.
truman		 ...this isn't about insurance, this is about the great variable - when will death occur?  Could be a week, a month, a year.  Could happen today...A sunbather, minding his own business, gets stabbed in the heart by the tip of a runaway beach umbrella...No way you can guard against that kinda thing, no way at all...
lawrence		 Hey, Burbank, I got a bridge-buyer in Stapleton I need you to cloes by four.
truman		Stapleton on Staten Island?
lawrence		 You know another one?
truman		I can't do it.
lawrence		 A half hour across the bay.  Sea air.  Do you good.
truman		No, I...  ...I got an appointment uptown.
lawrence		This is a sure thing.  They're upping our quota.  You need this.
truman		 Let's go further, daddy!  Let's go further!
father		 It's getting late, Truman.
truman		 Please!...
commuter 1		 I can't believe he's taking the long way.
commuter 2		He'll never make it.
truman		I'm here to see a Mr Hamilton.
concierge		You from the insurance company?  You missed him.
truman		When will he be back?
concierge		Vacation.  Two months.  He waited as long as he could.  You was supposed to be here by four.
youth 1		 You wanna read to me?
youth 1		 You wannna read to me?
youth 2		 My friend asked you a question.
woman		 Please...
youth 2		Now you're gonna have to ask me how it ends.
youth 1		We're gonna tell you how it ends, baby.
youth 2		Don't you wanna know how it ends?
woman		 Help!!  Please, help!!
woman		Thanks.
woman		 He did nothing.
youth 1		 Physical violence paralyzes him.  Always has.
meryl		 I got it free with the tune-up.
meryl		You missed a section.
truman		 Do they hurt?
meryl		I was afraid I'd seize up during cross. One of the keys kept sticking.
truman		 Is he gonna take the stand?
meryl		 No point.  Two eye witnesses saw him near the dumpster where they found the legs.
meryl		You gonna eat before you leave?
truman		I'll get something out.
meryl		 Did something happen today?
truman		 What could happen?
marlon		Ouch.  Whose nuts were those?
truman		 Mine.
truman		I gotta get out, Marlon.
marlon		 Yeah?  Outta what?
truman		Outta my job, outta Queens...out!
marlon		Outta your job?  What the hell's wrong with your job?  You gotta great job. You gotta desk job.  I'd kill for a desk job.
marlon		 Sonofabitch.
truman		It doesn't mean anything.
marlon		 Nothing means anything.  Try stocking vending machines for a living.  My biggest decision of the day is whether the Almond Joys look better next to the Snickers or the Baby Ruths.
truman		 I gotta get out.
marlon		 Sure and go where?
truman		 Australia.
marlon		 No shit.  Where is Australia exactly? Near England?
truman		See here, this is Queens.  Y'know, there're still places in Australia where no human being has ever set foot.
marlon		 So when are you leaving?
truman		It's not that simple.  Takes money, planning. You can't just up and go.  I'm going, don't you worry about that.
marlon		I never knew anybody who got out.
truman		 Tick-fucking-tock.  That's the fucking problem, Marlon.  I'm thirty-four.  I'm older than Jesus Christ.
truman		Where do the dreams go, Marlon?
marlon		 You win.
truman		I'm serious.  Where do the dreams go?
marlon		 They're still there.  Just buried under what we settled for.
truman		 You really think it could've dropped off an airliner?
marlon		 You coming for a drink?
truman		I can't tonight.
truman		 I'm sorry!  I'm sorry!
meryl		 What are you doing?  Come to bed.
truman		 I figure we could scrape together eight thousand.
meryl		 Oh.  God, everytime you and Marlon--
truman		--We could bum around the world for a year on that.
meryl		And then what, Truman?  We'd be back to where we were five years ago.  You're talking like a teenager.
truman		Maybe I feel like a teenager.
truman		Meryl, it'd be an adventure.
meryl		We said we'd try for a baby.  Isn't that enough of an adventure?
truman		That can wait.  I want to get away.  See some of the world.  Explore.
meryl		You want to be an explorer?  You mean like all the other great explorers from Queens? You don't even have a passport, Truman.  I bet you don't even know how to get one.
meryl		This'll pass.  Everybody thinks like this now and then.  Come to bed.
guard 1		How can they have a child?
guard 2		It's not gonna be his, you idiot.
guard 1		Why not?
guard 2		You think she'd go through with it?  Guess I always thought they'd adopt.
truman		 Daddy!!...Daddy!!...
truman		 Daddy...
truman		 Hey, stop!  Stop!!
attendant		 Hey!
truman		 Two, four, oh, six.
truman		 Outta the way!  Outta the way!
attendant		What the fuck are you trying to pull?!
truman		 I'm sorry!  I'm sorry!  No harm done! No harm done!
attendant		 I oughta fuck you up!
attendant		Get the fuck outta here.
marlon		What're you doing?  The man told you there's no such bus.
truman		He's lying.  Two, four, oh, six was definitely the number.
truman		I never believed he was dead.
marlon		 C'mon, Truman, a lotta times they don't find a body.  You know what the currents are like in that water.
truman		 You had to see his face when that wave hit. He wasn't scared Marion.  It was like he was expecting it, waiting for it.  He knew it was coming.
marlon		Why would he fake it?  He's not Elvis Presley.
truman		 You know what was really strange about today? An old woman with a little dog and a businessman, walking in opposite directions on the sidewalk, both react like clockwork. They force him onto a bus against his will, a bus that doesn't normally stop outside my building.  And when I'm giving chase, the bus never makes another stop and I get the feeling that the traffic and the pedestrians are working together to make sure I never catch up with it.
marlon		 Oh, so now it's also the pedestrians and the buses and the cars?  What are you saying, the entire population of Lower Manhattan is conspiring to stop you finding out that your father staged his death to pursue a life as a street person?  Oh yeah, that makes sense.
truman		You think I imagined it, don't you?
marlon		I think you're missing your dad.  The anniversary was yesterday, wasn't it?
marlon		You got sand in your cuffs.
truman		Maybe you're right.  If only the old woman hadn't left her dog behind.
raquel		Don't you dare go in. Truman.  I just got her off to sleep.
truman		It was Dad. I swear.
raquel		Well, the next time he shows up. bring him over.  Until then, I'm not saying a word about this to Mom and neither are you.
truman		If it wasn't him, it was his twin.  Can you think of a reason he'd want to hide from us?
racquel		I know a reason he'd want to hide from you. Look at how you treat us.  You live ten minutes away, we hardly see you from year to year and then you turn up with this story so insane you don't even believe it yourself.  Haven't you hurt her enough, Truman?  She already blames you.
truman		 I was seven years old!
raquel		But you're here and he's not.  Has it really taken you this long to invent a story to ease your conscience?
truman		I'm telling you he's alive!
raquel		 And I'm telling you he's fish food!
christof		You did well.
chloe		We've tightened security.
chloe		 Why would he do this to us?
christof		Old age.  Sentiment.  You play someone's father all those years, you are someone's father...He sees the way Truman is.  He feels responsible.
young christof		 ...as soon as we give the cue, tack to windward...
young christof		The freak wave will strike from the starboard side.  Remember, you don't go to the diver.  The diver goes to you.
young christof		...Good!  Good!...of course, on the day you only surface once you're safely beyond the cove...Try it one more time...You okay?
meryl		What're you doing out here?
truman		 Fixing the mower.
meryl		 Your sister called.  She was worried about you.
truman		 I saw my father on State Street dressed as a homeless man.
meryl		 I kept seeing my brother for years after he died.
truman		 What do you want?
meryl		I made macaroni.
truman		I gotta go out.  About a replacement...  ...mower blade.
male voice		 ...something's wrong.  Change frequencies...
veronica		Hey, Truman!  Where you bin?  You bin cheatin' on me?
veronica		 God, do they still make this stuff? What's the Sell-By Date?
chloe		 In case you hadn't noticed, we don't get to do it over.
chloe		 You think this is funny?
christof		The mask has slipped before.  Everything can be explained.
christof		 What's dangerous is that he makes the connection between what happened today and the girl.
veronica		Like I say, I don't normally do this. I gotta charge extra.
truman		 Hi.
girlfriend 1		 See you in class.
truman		Lauren, right?
lauren		No.
truman		 Look.  I was wonder--
lauren		--I can't go out with you.
truman		I haven't asked you yet.
lauren		Well when you do, that's my answer.  I'm sorry.  It's not up to me.
truman		 Why, you married?
truman		I'm not asking you to have my children, just a pizza.  How about Saturday?
lauren		 No.
truman		Friday?
lauren		Now.
truman		Right now?  We got finals.
lauren		If we don't go now, it won't happen.
lauren		 Well, what do you want to do?
lauren		I never knew this place existed.
lauren		Come on!  Come on!  It's wonderful!
truman		 I...I can't.
lauren		That's right.  Oh, God, I'm sorry.
truman		 Why? You've got nothing to be sorry about. Has someone been talking to you?
lauren		 Get me out of here.  I don't want to be here.
truman		 What are you talking about?  Lauren!  Lauren!
lauren		 My name's not Lauren!  It's Sylvia!
sylvia		In a minute someone's going to come and stop me talking to you.
truman		 Who?  There's no one around.
sylvia		 You remember when you were a little boy, you stood up in class and said you wanted to be an explorer like Magellan.  And your teacher, Sister Olivia said, "You're too late, Truman.  There's nothing left to explore."  And all the other kids laughed. And you sat down.
truman		 How do you know about that?
sylvia		It doesn't matter.  You've forgotten about that boy, Truman.  You got scared.  Just because something happens, doesn't mean you can't take another chance in your life.
truman		I don't understand.
sylvia		 Look at that project.  You think anybody lives there?  It's all for you, Truman. A show.  The eyes are everywhere.
truman		 Eyes?  Where?
sylvia		 Everywhere, disguised...Truman, they're going to fill your head with lies. You've got to make yourself deaf, you understand?  When you're afraid the most, it means you're on the right track.  Trust that boy.  Promise me you'll do that?
sylvia		 I told you, Truman!
truman		 Hey!
man		 Get in the car, Lauren!
truman		 Who are you?!
man		I'm her father!
sylvia		No he's not!  He's just saying that! Does he look anything like me?!
truman		Shut your mouth!
truman		Leave her alone!
man		 Which one are you?
sylvia		 Don't listen to him, Truman.  Make yourself deaf.  Come find me.
man		 Don't bother!  We're moving to Australia. New York's done something to her head.
veronica		You want me to do it again?  I think I could do it better.
truman		 No...thank you.
truman		Veronica, what do you know for sure?
veronica		For sure?  The nuns at my school, they used to say, "The whole of life is faith."
veronica		 On the house.
truman		 I've got something to tell you, Sis.
raquel		 I've got something to tell you too.
truman		 I'm going to Australia.
raquel		Mom's real sick.
waitress		She was willing to lose him if it meant he could find himself.  Never mind.
truman		 I have an appointment at, er...Diamond Enterprises.
truman		 What're they doing?
truman		 Just tell me what the hell's going on?
truman		Like fuck!  What're they doing?
truman		You don't tell me, I'll get you investigated!
official		You can't--
truman		 --I know.
truman		You ever been into the AMT Building?
lawrence		 What're you doing with that?
truman		 I'm going to visit a site.
lawrence		What for?
truman		Because I never do.
lawrence		 That's why we got adjusters.
truman		 You got a problem with me going?
lawrence		I got a problem with you not doing your job, Burbank.  You already screwed up once this week.
truman		Let me worry about that.
lawrence		680 West 89th.
mover 1		Hey, would it kill ya to wait?!
truman		 Is there another way?  Can't you get around this?
truman		 When was the fire?
boy		 Week ago.
truman		How come it's still smoking?
boy		Started up again.  Kids.
truman		 Says here it burnt to the ground.
boy		Wishful thinking maybe?
truman		Someone send you to tell me all this?
boy		 You the one askin' questions.
christof		...Everybody stay focused...remember who you are...
christof		 Damn!
truman		 Small world.
jogger 1		 Excuse me.
truman		You don't remember?  Two days ago I gave you my meatball sandwich in the park.  You were in a wheelchair.  Same sneakers.
truman		 A miracle!
jogger 2		 Get the hell outta here.
truman		Marlon. I've gotta talk to you.
marlon		 Truman!  Sorry, I'm up against it today.
truman		I've fallen over something, Marlon. Something to do with my Dad. I think.
marlon		 Are you okay? You look like shit.
truman		 It's big, Marlon.  You wouldn't believe who's in on it.
marlon		 In on what?
truman		There's no point trying to show you, they cover their tracks too well.  But I've been going into a lotta strange buildings, seeing a lotta familiar faces, y'know what I mean?
marlon		 Something's definitely in the air.  My last delivery, a kid got crushed to death. tilting a vending machine.  They won't even let me take the rest of the day off.
truman		Do it, anyway.
truman		I'm deadly serious. Marlon.  We can't talk here.  I'm being followed.
marlon		 Who?
truman		I don't know.  They look just like regular people.  But I've been writing down numbers - license plates, taxi numbers, ID numbers - the same ones keep cropping up over and over.
marlon		Is someone leanin' on you, Tru?  Cos I got some friends here, they owe me.  We can lean back.  Is he one of them?
truman		 I don't know.  Could be.  One thing's certain. The key is spontoneity.  Be unpredictable. They can't stand that.  That's why we've got to get outta here.  Can you come with me?
marlon		 Christ, Truman.  You're gonna get both our asses fired.
marlon		Where're we going?
truman		The beach.
christof		 I can't believe how much he's shoved down.  That he sensed the significance at aged seven and clung to it so fiercely.
christof		 You remember, Moses, it used to end right there, before the expansion.
roman		 Christof, the cracks are starting to show.
christof		 I'll paper over them.
chloe		 Truman's had bouts of paranoia before and recovered.
roman		 No, not like this.  It's compromised. Becoming unwatchable.
christof		Fear?  Doubt?  Is that what you have trouble watching?  Perhaps you don't like watching yourself.
moses		 Why don't you two wait outside?
christof		 He's jumped the rails, Moses, that's all.  We'll get him back on.
moses		You know why they're so nervous.  The birth of Truman's child is going to double revenue. For God's sake don't let him upstage you.  You've been grooming a successor.
christof		He's not ready.
moses		Him or you?
christof		 He's just acting out of character.
moses		What if he's in character?  What if he's starting to act in character at last?  Have you ever considered that?
marlon		What're we doing here, Truman?
truman		This is where it started.
marlon		Where what started?
truman		Things.  Things that don't fit.  Loose threads. False steps.  Slips of the tongue.
marlon		 Make sense, Truman.  You going religious on me?
truman		 My father didn't want me to see what was over here. Whatever it was, it's gone now.  I never shoulda listened to him that day.  I knew it was wrong.
truman		There were a hundred people on the beach that day.  Everybody knew what was going on except me.
marlon		I don't want to put you down but why would anybody go to all this trouble over you?
truman		Maybe I've been mistaken for somebody else.  A couple of years ago, I tried to get hold of a copy of Time Magazine.  The week before an ad said, "Next Week:  Truman Burbank and the Lost Generation".
truman		A guy with the same name as me in Time Magazine.  It ain't a common name so I looked out for it.  But the day it came out, every newstand was sold out.  No library had it.  I even wrote off for a back-issue.  Never seen a copy to this day.
truman		Maybe I'm being set up for something.  You ever feel like that, Marlon?  Like your whole life has been building to something?
marlon		 A coincidence.  Haven't you ever heard of a coincidence?
truman		I'm a walking coincidence.  I can't count 'em. No something's happening, Marlon.  I've got to get to the bottom of it.
marlon		 Of what?!  Why're you doing this to yourself?
truman		I'm scared, Marlon.  I'm as scared as hell. But I've never felt more alive.  It's just like she said.
marlon		 Who?
truman		It doesn't matter.  She was too beautiful for here.
truman		Can you lend me some money?  A hundred bucks.
marlon		All I got on me is the takings from the machines. Why do you need it?
truman		I'm going away for a while.
meryl		 What's going on, Truman?  You're not yourself.
truman		 Maybe you just don't know me very well.
meryl		We could do it right here, like we used to.
narrator		 Travelling Down Under?  Global Travel is turning rates to Australia upside down.  Round Trip to Sydney only $829.  One way, $465. Global Travel at Broadway and 44th...
truman		 Lemme go to the bathroom.
meryl		Don't be too long.
christof		What happened overnight?
chloe		He couldn't do it, even on the sofa.
christof		 He didn't masturbate?
chloe		Not for the last two inonths.
meryl		 Aren't you gonna be late?
truman		I got a call in the area.  What's the case?  Anything interesting?
meryl		 Rape on the subway.
meryl		They're guilty as hell but they'll walk.  No witnesses.  Her word against theirs.  Maybe we could meet for lunch today.
security guard		You a witness?
truman		Er, yes...  No, no I'm not.
security guard		Closed session.
truman		I wanna book a flight to Australia.
agent		Where exactly?
truman		 Australia.
agent		 Where in Australia?  What city?
truman		Sorry, Sydney.  Sydney, Australia.  That's right.
agent		 For how many?
truman		 One.
agent		When do you want to leave, remembering, of course, that you do lose a day on the way there?
truman		 Today.
agent		 I'm sorry.  I don't have anything for a week.
truman		 A week.
agent		 It's the busy season.
truman		 Or maybe you're a different kind of agent, Doris?
agent		 I do have a fabulous rate on a cruise ship departing for Australia tomorrow.  But you wouldn't want to do that.
truman		Why wouldn't I?
agent		I thought you were in a hurry.
truman		 That's right.
agent		You want to book the flight?
truman		You were expecting me, weren't you?
agent		It's non-refundable.
christof		 Can we contain him long enough?
chloe		 Why go to all the trouble?
christof		He believes she has the answer.
chloe		Why not just tell him she's dead?
christof		It's too late for that.  That won't satisfy him.  He's going to have to find out for himself. See it with his own eyes.  Right now he needs something genuine.  Even if we have to fake it.
truman		 "Yours truly..."  You spell "truly" "l...y" or "e...l...y"?
insurance agent		I always write "Yours faithfully..."
lawrence		Where the hell have you been, Burbank? What the hell's going on?
truman		That's what I'd like to know, Lawrence.
truman		I was just about to resign.  Isn't that a laugh?  I just realized there's nothing to resign from, is there?
lawrence		Listen, don't bother with the resignation. Just get the fuck outta here.
truman		 What is this a front for?  Why aren't I in on the joke?  Was I away that day?!
truman		 I'm talking to you!  Who am I?!
lawrence		 You better get outta here or I'm calling Security.
truman		 "Security!  I'm calling Security".
truman		You don't believe a single word you're saying!  You hear me?!
simeon		 ...and back to the close-up...
chloe		 Do you think he sees the entry?
operator		Hard to tell.
christof		 Why don't we ask him?
chloe		 Enhance.
truman		 Say my name or I'll smash its head open.
truman		 Say my name!
young mother		 Please, give him to me...
truman		 Say my name!  You know my name!  Say it!
young mother		 I don't know you.
truman		 I mean it!  I'm ready to do it! What's my name?!!
truman		 This is your last chance!
truman		 What...is...my...name?!
young mother		 Thank you, Truman.
truman		 See that car way down there?  I bet it's a Suburu station wagon.
truman		I predict the next four cars will be a white Honda Civic, a blue and white Dodge Dart with the front hubcap missing, a Volkswagon Beetle with a dented fender and a motorcycle.
truman		There's the Honda...the Dodge...here comes the dented Beetle...
truman		Look, damn you!
meryl		 Where's the motorcycle?
truman		 Don't you want to know how I did that? Maybe you already know.  Is that it?
meryl		Where have you been?  I've been calling you all day.
truman		Have you been concerned, Meryl?  Nice name. "Meryl".  I always liked it.
meryl		 Nice of you to say so after eight years.
truman		Actress's name, isn't it?  What's your real name?
meryl		 Oh, God.  What's got into you?
truman		Take a break. Meryl  I know.
meryl		I invited Marlon and Rita for a barbeque Sunday. I thought I'd make my potato salad.  Remind me...
truman		 Drop it, I said.  It's over.
meryl		 ...we need more charcoal.
truman		Shut up!
meryl		I'm gonna take a shower.
truman		 No.  We're going for a drive.
meryl		What?!
truman		 For years I've been saying I want to go some place, well now I'm ready to go.  Let's just jump in the car and go.
truman		 I thought maybe, Atlantic City.
meryl		 You hate gambling.
truman		That's right.  I do, don't I?
meryl		So why do you wanna go?
truman		Cos I never have.  That's why you go places, isn't it?  Cos you're curious.  I haven't been curious since I was seven years old, y'know that?  Back then you'd have to nail me to the floor to keep me in one place.
christof		How long to take Atlantic City out of mothballs?
simeon		We could be up and running...three hours maybe.
christof		Give me a number five gridlock on the Jersey Turnpike.
truman		 So much traffic, this time of day.  Does that strike you as peculiar?
truman		 Why don't you slug him, really make it authentic?
truman		 Blocked at every turn.  Beautifully synchronized, don't you agree?
meryl		 You blaming me for the traffic?
truman		Should I?
meryl		You've never been on this road before. You don't know what it's like.
truman		 That's true.  We could be stuck here for hours.  Could be like this all the way to Atlantic City.
meryl		What the hell are you doing?
truman		You're right.  Let's go back.  I'm sorry.  I don't know what got into me.
meryl		Would you please slow down, Truman?
meryl		Truman, that was the turnoff!
truman		I've changed my mind again.  What's Maine like this time of year?! I've never been to Maine.  Or let's just see where the road takes us.
meryl		 Let me out, Truman.  You're not right in the head. You wanna destroy yourself, you do it on your own!
truman		 I think I'd like a little company.
christof		 What the hell is wrong with the "carousel"? Keep them together.
simeon		 We don't know where he's going any more.
chloe		Oncoming is very thin.
truman		 We're in a moving pack, don't you see?
christof		 He's so close!  It's tantilizing!
chloe		You want to pull him over?
christof		No police.  Not yet.  We shadow him. We don't want him to panic.
chloe		He's trying to outrun the traffic.
christof		He's trying to outrun the world.  Keep him on this route.  Are we ready?
truman		 It's hard to go places, isn't it?
meryl		There's been an accident, Truman.  We have to go back.
truman		No.  There's no accident.  It'S just more stalling.
truman		What's going on?
officer		 Leak at the plant.  They had to shut her down.
truman		Is there any way around?
officer		The whole area's being evacuated.  A precaution.
meryl		Truman!!  Come back!!
christof		Did he see it?
chloe		I don't think so.
meryl		Let me get you some help, Truman.  You're not well.
truman		 Why do you want to have a child with me? You can't stand me.
meryl		That's not true.
truman		 Don't lie to me!
truman		Tell me what's happening?!
meryl		 I thought you knew everything.  What could I tell you?
truman		 You're part of this, aren't you?!
meryl		Truman, you're scaring me!
truman		No, you're scaring me, Meryl!
truman		Stop this now or I kill your leading lady.  I know you can hear me.
roman		 Get somebody in there!
christof		 No.
simeon		 She's in trouble!  We've got to help her!
meryl		 Do something...
truman		 Who are you talking to?!
meryl		 You're the one talking to the walls!
truman		No.  You said, "Do something."  Who were you talking to?  I swear I'll kill you, if you don't tell me.
truman		 How could you buy this damn thing when you know he drowned in front of me?!
truman		You have any idea what it's like to drown?
meryl		 Don't let him do it!
truman		 I'll kill her!
truman		 Right on time.  Cops must be telepathic.
truman		 Damn!
truman		 Stay where you are or I'll kill her!
meryl		 They were going to let him kill me!
truman		People know who I am, my every move, complete strangers know my name.  Even when there's no one around, I feel the eyes on me.
marlon		 I was in the bank today.  The Federal on Lewis.  A clerk was talking about somebody named Truman messing with her baby.  Is that the stranger you're talking about?
truman		 I know you already think I'm going out of my mind but I genuinely believe the world revolves around me somehow.  Everybody seems to be in on it.
marlon		It's a lot of world for one man.  You sure that's not wishful thinking, you wishing you'd made something more of yourself?  Christ, Truman, who hasn't sat on the John and had an imaginary interview with Barbara Walters? Who hasn't wanted to be somebody?
truman		That's just it.  I think I am somebody.
marlon		 I used to dream all my friends and family got together in a hotel room, thinking of ways to fuck me up.
truman		Sometimes I think it's in my head, sometimes I think it's for real.
marlon		Tru, we've known each other since before we could get a hard-on.
marlon		The only way we ever made it through high school was cheating off each other's test papers.  Jesus, they were identical. I always liked that, because whatever the answer was, we was right together and we was wrong together.
marlon		The only night either of us ever spent in jail, we spent together and I wet myself but you never told anyone. I was best man at your wedding and my brother was best man at my wedding and you didn't talk to me for a month over that and I didn't blame you because you've been more of a brother to me than he's ever been.  And I never shoulda let my Goddam father talk me into that.
marlon		I know things haven't worked out for either of us like we used to sit up on Freemont Street all night and dream they would.  We all let opportunities pass us by, none of us asks for the dance as often as we should.  I know that feeling when it's like everything's slipping away and you don't want to believe it so you look for answers someplace else.  But, well, the point is, I would gladly step in front of traffic for you.
christof		 ...and the last thing I'd ever do is lie to you...
marlon		 Think about it, Truman, if everybody's in on it, I'd have to be in on it too. I'm not in on it cos there is no it.
marlon		 I can't thank you enough.  I don't know what happened.  He was so close.  It threw me.  I'm indebted.
interviewer		 Welcome.
christof		Thank you.
interviewer		Before we start taking calls, the huge surge in ratings over the last few days, how do you hope to sustain that audience now that Truman appears to have reconciled himself, returned to "normal"?
christof		Ratings have never been our primary goal.  I imagine we'll lose those voycurs only interested in witnessing Truman's latest torment.  However I'm certain our core audience will remain loyal.
interviewer		But recent events have been so dramatic, it does raise the perennial question.  What keeps us watching one man twenty-four hours a day - eating, sleeping, working, sitting for hours in contemplation?
christof		It has to be the reality.
christof		We've become increasingly frustrated watching actors give us phony emotions, bored with pyrotechnics and special effects.  While the world he inhabits is counterfeit, there's nothing fake about Truman himself.  No scripts. no cue cards.  It's not always Shakespeare but it's genuine.  That's how he can support an entire channel.
interviewer		A window onto the human condition?
christof		I prefer to think of it as a mirror.  Not only does he give us a glimpse of the truth, he gives us a glimpse of ourselves.
interviewer		But how do you account for the popularity of those eight hours a day when Truman sleeps?
christof		We find many viewers leave him on all night for comfort.  Haven't you ever watched your child or your lover sleep?
interviewer		Let's go to some of those viewers' calls.
interviewer		 Charlotte, North Carolina, for Christof.
interviewer		You're on, caller.  Go ahead.
christof		Thank you.
christof		I don't believe so.  Not now.  He tested his world, as we all do at certain times, and eventually it passed the test.  You have to understand, he is a man made-for-TV, the world he occupies his only frame of reference. No, for him to come even this close to the truth is a remarkable testament to his instincts.
interviewer		Sacramento, California, you're on "Tru Talk".
christof		Working on "Truman" has always been a huge commitment for an actor, not just in terms of separation from friends and family, but since Truman essentially drives the plot, it's a never-ending improvisation.  Recent events have raised the pressure but also the prestige.
interviewer		 Of course Truman has always been very much in on casting.
christof		As with our own lives, the only people he can't cast are his family.  Otherwise he has final approval, able to elevate an extra into a lead role as was the case with his only real friend, Marlon, or alternatively relegate a star to a bit player.
interviewer		 Istanbul, Turkey, you're on with world-renowned videographer, Christof.
christof		Who can?
christof		 In his entire life, forty-two minutes.  A technical fault in 1978 accounts for most of that time.  The remainder generally results from blindspots, in the early days, when Truman would stray out of range of our cameras.
interviewer		The Hague for Christof...The Hague?...lost them.  Amagansett, Long Island, you're on "Tru Talk".
christof		 I believe that to be so.  I often feel the only difference between Truman's life and our own is that his is being more thoroughly documented. We all play our allotted roles--
christof		 --He can leave at any time.  If his was more than just a vague ambition, if he were absolutely determined to discover the truth, there's no way we could prevent him.  I think what really distresses you, caller, is that ultimately he prefers the comfort of his "cell"--
christof		 Do I know you, caller?  Your voice sounds familiar.
interviewer		 Recording a human life from birth to death, that's still the intention?  You still believe Truman has more to contribute?
christof		 More than ever.  By unwittingly allowing us to witness his struggles, he's constantly forcing us to evaluate our own lives.  He gives us hope.
interviewer		Let's take another call.  London, England you're on "Tru Talk".
chloe		 He was premature, wasn't he?
christof		Only by two weeks.
chloe		Curious even then?  Like he couldn't wait to get started?
christof		 His eagerness to leave his mother's womb also meant he was the one selected.
chloe		What was it like, the first show?
christof		The ultimate live television.  In competition with five other unwanted pregnancies - the casting of a show determined by an air date - he was the one who arrived on cue.
chloe		Is it true what you said...on the show tonight? About letting him go if he wanted it badly enough.  Would you really do that?
christof		It won't come to that.
christof		I hope we've got fresh extras.
chloe		 The rotation was made this morning.
christof		 I don't like the couple with the baby. They'd never be together.
christof		Who's doing wardrobe?  I keep seeing the same wardrobe...
christof		I bet he doesn't stop at the newstand.
christof		...Bodycam Two...
christof		...streetlight eight...
christof		...ready, Car-Cam One.  Go to One...
christof		...and cut to interior...
christof		...looser...
christof		...and action, Vivien...  Looks just like Truman's mother at that age.
christof		 Vivien, press the elevator button again ...and make sure you catch his eye this time...
christof		Good!  Perfect!  Cut to the interior...
christof		...and Lawrence...
christof		...nice look, Lawrence...and, Vivien...
lawrence		 I wouldn't kick her out of bed.
christof		 Regrettably, I have to inform you that Hannah has chosen not to renew her contract.
christof		I'm sure we can all respect her reasons.
christof		Her separation from Truman will be orchestrated over the summer.  You all know Claudia from her work in theatre. Thankfully, Truman doesn't.
christof		 This is a copy of Claudia's back story. Her character's name will be Vivien. She's the new adjuster at the office.
christof		We intend to entice Truman into the affair as soon as possible.  Claudia will make her advance at the seminar Truman's attending next week.  Details are in your schedules.  I'm sure you'll all make Claudia welcome.
marlon		 Question is, will Truman make her welcome?
christof		 I don't have to tell you, how critical the next few weeks will be.  This takes us into the next generation.  When Truman's child is born, the network will be switching to a two-channel format to chronicle both lives.
vivien		What happens when Truman and the baby are both on camera together?
christof		There will simply be duplicate coverage.
vivien		 Let's just hope we don't have twins.
chloe		 When Truman dies do we go back to the single channel?
barman		What's he doing in there?
patron		Meryl's at her mom's.  Maybe he's got an urge.
waitress		 What's with the coat?
barman		 Maybe he doesn't wanna be recognized.
patron		 Nervous.
barman		 Oh God, he never bought nothing.
woman		Give him a break.  It's taken him thirty- four years to get the nerve to go in there.
simeon		...Ready two.  Go to two.
simeon		And back to the medium.
simeon		...and wide...
operator		 Could we have picked a bigger loser if we tried?
simeon		 That loser pays our salary.
operator		He's given up on himself again.
simeon		Who cares?  Makes life easier for us. He is what he is.
christof		When did he start sleeping like that?
simeon		About the time Meryl left.
christof		Is that the best shot we can get?
simeon		What's to see?
christof		 What happened to the room?
simeon		He started to reorganize.  I was going to call you.  But half-way through, he gave up and fell asleep.
christof		I want to check the set-ups for tomorrow's insurance convention.
christof		Give me a shot from his wedding band.
simeon		 He took it off.
christof		 Why is he so still?  He's too still.
christof		Isolate the audio in the cans and amplify.
christof		Give me a preview.  An ECU on his torso.
christof		 Phone him.
chri stof		 Wrong number.
christof		 He didn't drink tonight?  No pills?
christof		Hang up!
christof		Get Marlon over there.
chloe		Under what pretext?
christof		 Any fucking pretext!
marlon		Tru!..Tru!..
marlon		 I'm comin' in, Tru!
christof		 Cut transmission.
christof		 I said, "Cut"!
christof		There.  Freeze...Zoom into the chair...
christof		Enhance.
christof		 He wasn't making a mess.  He was engineering a blind spot.
chloe		How does he know where the cameras are?
chri stof		I don't know.  All I know is we've been filming a blow-up doll for the last three hours.
simeon		 We've declared a curfew.  Only the extras required for the search are on the set. Everyone else is at first positions.
christof		All prop cars accounted for?
simeon		He has to be on foot.  He has the world's most recognizable face.  He can't disappear.
chloe		The sponsors are threatening to pull the plug if we don't make a statement within the next hour.  The media is in a feeding frenzy.  The phone lines are jammed.  Every network has a pirated shot of Harlon and the dummy.
police officer		Any sign of him?
truman		 Not yet.
police officer		 Take it easy.
moses		 Rumors are circulating he's dead.
roman		 The sponsors are threatening to rip up their contracts.
christof		 Why?  We're getting higher ratings for that graphic than any time in the series.
chloe		 When we flush him out how do we explain this?
christof		 We tell him the truth.
christof		 We're making a movie.
simeon		 We'll get him on this next sweep.
christof		What have we missed?
simeon		It's just a matter of time.
christof		No.  We've missed something.
sylvia		 You remember when you were a little boy...
sylvia		...Trust that boy...
christof		Trust that boy...  We're not watching the sea.
simeon		 Why would we?
christof		Sweep the harbor.
simeon		That's him!
christof		Resume transmission.
christof		 What do we have on that boat?
chopper pilot		 Alter course immediately.  You are entering a restricted area.
truman		Fuck you!
truman		Get the hell away!  It's my life!
christof		 Fire a warning.
simeon		 Jesus!  God!  Is he out of his mind?
christof		 Pull back.
christof		How long will another chopper take?
simeon		By the time we pick up the pilots, too long.
christof		We have to stop him for his own good. Turn him back with the elements.
simeon		 There's no rescue boat in the area.  He won't know what to do.
moses		 For God's sake, Chris.  The whole world is watching.  We can't kill him in front of a live audience.
christof		He was born in front of a live audience.  Don't worry, he's not willing to risk his life for the truth.  His doubts will turn him back.
christof		Kill the lights.
truman		 You're going to have to kill me!  Come on!
simeon		 It's not working.  He can sail that thing!
roman		How can he sail?!  He's in insurance!  He hasn't set foot on a boat since he was seven!
moses		 On the behalf of the studio, I demand you cease transmission.
christof		 How close?
operator		Very close.
christof		Capsize him!  Tip him over!
chloe		 You can't!  He's tied himself to the wheel. He'll drown!
simeon		 He doesn't care...
chloe		 You lied, you hypocrite!  The only way he can leave, is dead!
christof		 Do it!
simeon		 It's too late...
operator		Yeah!
guide		...the soundstage roof houses over eight hundred thousand lights of varying intensities to faithfully recreate the constellations...
truman		 Drive!
truman		 Keep talking.  Say whatever you say!
guide		Er,...the ocean tank contains over six hundred and fifty million gallons of man-made salt water, temperature-controlled...
truman		 Act normal!  Keep filming!
child		Please, Mister Truman.
christof		 What do you mean he's not there?  We can't have lost him again.
guide		...on your left, the control room where the angles are selected and the actors receive direction.  Of course, the one place we can't show you is the story department.  There is none.  ...Truman writes the script...
guide		 Here he is!  It's him!
guard		 We've got him trapped.
christof		Truman...
truman		 Even the stars I wished on...
christof		 You won't do it, Truman.  I've watched you your whole life.
truman		 You never had a camera in my head.
truman		 Something had to be real!
****Dialogues from script :Twilight.txt****

shooting draft		February 11, 2008
bella		Have a good..
bella		... life.
rene		It won't work again, baby.
bella		You put it on hold.
rene		I did?
bella		Look. You also called Mexico.
bella		Very romantic.
phil		If you call crappy motels, backwater towns and ballpark hot dogs romantic.
rene		Now, you know if you change your mind, I'll race back here from wherever the game is.
bella		I won't change my mind, mom.
rene		You might. You've always hated Forks.
bella		It's not about Forks, it's about Dad. I mean, two weeks a year, we barely know each other.
charlie		Your hair's longer.
bella		I cut it since last time I saw you.
charlie		Guess it grew out again.
charlie		How's your mom?
bella		Good.
bella		 That's right. One bathroom.
charlie		I'll just put these up in your room -
bella		I can do it -
charlie		Bella, you remember Billy Black.
billy		Glad you're finally here. Charlie hasn't shut up about it since you told him you were coming.
charlie		Keep exaggerating, I'll wheel you down the hill.
billy		Right after I ram you in the ankles.
jacob		I'm Jacob. We made mud pies together when we were little kids.
bella		Yeah... I think I remember.. .  Are they always like this?
jacob		It's getting worse with old age.
charlie		So what do you think of your homecoming gift?
bella		No way. The truck is for me?
charlie		Just bought it off Billy, here.
jacob		I rebuilt the engine and - -
bella		It's perfect!
jacob		Okay, so you gotta double pump the clutch when you shift, but - -
bella		Maybe I can give you a ride to school.
jacob		I go to school on the reservation.
bella		Too bad. Would've been nice to know at least one person.
eric		You're Isabella Swan, the new girl. Hi. I'm Eric. The eyes and ears of this place. Anything you need. Tour guide, lunch date, shoulder to cry on.
bella		I'm kind of the suffer in silence type.
eric		Good headline for your feature - I'm on the paper, and you're news, baby, front page.
eric		Whoa, chillax. No feature.
eric		You've missed a lot of the semester, but I can hook you up - tutor, cliff notes, medical excuse.. .
jessica		Block it, Chloe! Yeah! Good attack!
bella		(hurries to him,
mike		It's only a flesh wound.
mike		You're Isabella, right?
mike		I'm Mike. Newton.
jessica		She's got a great spike, doesn't she?
bella		That's why they kicked me out.
eric		Mike, you met my home girl Bella.
mike		Your home girl?
angela		Sorry, needed a candid for the feature -
eric		Feature's dead, Angela. Don't bring it up again.
bella		Sorry. There's always eating disorders, or Speedo padding on the swim team -
angela		-- Wait, that's a good one.. .
bella		Who are they?
angela		The Cullens.
jessica		Doctor and Mrs. Cullen's foster kids. They all moved down here from Alaska two years ago.
angela		They kinda keep to themselves.
jessica		Because they're all together. Like, together together. The blonde girl, Rosalie, and the big dark-haired guy, Emmett.. .
jessica		... they're a thing. I'm not even sure that's legal.
jessica		But they live together. And the little dark haired girl, Alice, she's really weird.. .
jessica		... she's with Jasper, the blonde who looks like he's in pain. I mean, Dr. Cullen's like this foster dad slash match maker.
angela		Maybe he'll adopt me.
bella		Who's he?
jessica		That's Edward Cullen.
jessica		He's totally gorgeous, obviously. But apparently, no one here is good enough for him. Like I care.
bella		I wasn't planning on it.
edward		 I'll just... endure it.
bella		Jerk.
charlie		Waylon, she hasn't had a Christmas here since she was four.
waylon		Bet I made an impression, though.
charlie		You always do.
cora		Let the girl eat her cod, Waylon.
bella		 That'd be great, thank you.
bella		So... you eat here every night?
charlie		Easier than washing dishes.
bella		I can cook.
bella		I do the cooking at home - in Phoenix. Mom's not great in the kitchen.
charlie		I remember.. .
charlie		How was school? Meet anyone?
charlie		 Are people talking about them again?
bella		No... well, a little.
charlie		Just cause they're newcomers. We're lucky to have a surgeon like Dr. Cullen at our podunk hospital. Lucky his wife wanted to live in a small town. Lucky his kids aren't like a lot of the hell-raisers around here.
bella		... Okay.
charlie		I just don't like narrow mindedness.
bella		Mom, where's your cell?
rene		Ok, I didn't lose my power cord. It ran away. Screaming. I literally repel technology now.
charlie		That's why I got you new tires. She looks over at the truck -- yep, four new tires. CHARLIE
bella		I mean... nothing.
charlie		I'll be late for dinner. I'm heading down to Mason County. A security guard at the Grisham Mill got killed by some kind of animal.. .
bella		An animal?
charlie		You're not in Phoenix any more, honey. They've been hunting it for a week with no luck. Thought I'd lend a hand.
bella		Be careful.
charlie		Always am.
bella		And thank you. For the tires.
eric		... and yeah, prom committee is a chick thing, but I gotta cover it for the paper anyway, and they need a guy to help choose the music - - So I need your play list -
mike		Come on, Arizona. Give it up for the rain.
bella		Terrific.
edward		Hello.
edward		I didn't have a chance to introduce myself last week. My name is Edward Cullen.
edward		 ... You're Bella.
bella		I'm... yes.
edward		Ladies first.
bella		You've been gone.
edward		Out of town. For personal reasons.
bella		Prophase.
edward		May I look?
edward		Prophase.
bella		 Like I said.
edward		Enjoying the rain?
bella		Seriously? You're asking me about the weather?
edward		It appears.
bella		No. I don't like the cold. Or the wet. Or the gray. Or parkas. Or turtle necks.
edward		Like I said.
bella		It's complicated.
edward		I think I can keep up.
bella		My mother remarried.
edward		Very complex. So you don't like him.
bella		Phil is fine. Young for her, but nice enough.
edward		But now you're unhappy.
bella		No... I -- I just.. .
bella		Did you get contacts?
edward		... no.
edward		It's just the fluorescents.
charlie		Bells. Are you alright?
bella		I'm fine, dad. Calm down.
tyler		I'm so sorry, Bella. I tried to stop.
bella		It's okay, Tyler.
charlie		It sure as hell is not okay.
bella		Dad, it's not his fault-
bella		But you didn't.
charlie		You can kiss your license goodbye.
charlie		Good. Dr. Cullen.
tyler		I'm so sorry, Bella. I'm really -
bella		It would have been a lot worse if Edward hadn't knocked me out of the way.
charlie		Edward? Your boy?
bella		It was amazing he got to me so fast. He was nowhere near me.
charlie		I just have to sign some paperwork. You better call your mom.
bella		You told her?! She's probably freaking.
rosalie		This isn't just about you, it's about all of us - -
bella		Can I talk to you for a moment?  How did you get over to me so quickly?
edward		I was standing right next to you.
bella		You were next to your car, across the lot.
bella		Yes. You were.
edward		You're confused. You hit your head.
bella		I know what I saw.
edward		And what, exactly, was that?
bella		You stopped that van. You pushed it away.
edward		No one will believe that.
bella		I wasn't planning to tell anyone.
bella		I just want to know the truth.
edward		Can't you just thank me and get over it?
edward		You're not going to let it go, are you?
bella		No.
edward		 Then I hope you enjoy disappointment.
bella		Why did you even bother?
edward		... I don't know.
bella		... Yeah, false alarm.. .
mike		Actually, I'm glad you're not dead cause - well, that would suck, plus I wanted to ask you - even though it's, like, a month away.. .
mike		So what do you think?  You want to go? To prom. With me.
bella		 Prom. As in dance. I, uh - have to go
bella		Non-refundable ticket. Maybe you should ask Jessica.
bella		Hello, Edward.
bella		Really?
bella		How did you know about that?
edward		You didn't answer my question.
bella		You haven't answered any of mine. You won't even say hello.
edward		Hello.
bella		And how did you stop that van?
edward		Adrenaline rush. Very common. Google it.
edward		It helps if you actually watch where you put your feet.
edward		I know I've been rude, but it's for the best.
jessica		Guess who just asked me to prom!
jessica		I totally thought Mike was going to ask you, Bella. Is it gonna be weird?
bella		No way. Zero weirdness. You guys are great together.
jessica		I know, right?
edward		Bella, it would be better if we weren't friends.
edward		 You think I regret saving you?
bella		I know you do.
edward		 You don't know anything.
alice		The bus is leaving.  Hi. Will you be riding with us?
edward		No. Our bus is full.
charlie		Your mother called. Again.
bella		Your fault, for telling her about the accident.
charlie		She always did know how to worry.
bella		He is.
eric		La Push, baby. You in?
bella		Should I know what that means?
mike		La Push beach, down on the Quileute rez. We're all going after school. Big swell coming in.
eric		And I don't just surf the internet.
jessica		Eric, you stood up once. On a foam board.
angela		There's whale watching, too. Come with.
eric		La Push, baby.
bella		I'll go if you stop saying that.
bella		Thanks... but your mood swings are giving me whiplash.
edward		I said it would be better if we weren't friends, not that I didn't want to be.
edward		It means if you were smart, you'd avoid me.
bella		So let's say, for argument's sake, that I'm not smart. Would you talk to me? Tell me the truth?
edward		Probably not. I'd rather hear your theories.
bella		Okay... how bout radioactive spiders? Kryptonite?
edward		(levels his gaze,
bella		 No. I don't believe that. You're not bad. You can be a jerk, but it's like this... mask. To keep people away.
bella		Look, why don't we just - hang out. Like... come to the beach with us. It'll be fun - sand fleas, wind burn, salt water stinging your eyes.. .
edward		 Which beach?
bella		La Push.
bella		Is something wrong with that beach?
edward		It's just a little crowded.
angela		I keep thinking Eric's going to ask me to prom, then he just... doesn't.
bella		You could ask him. (off Angela's flustered
angela		I am?
bella		Guys, this is Jacob. Are you stalking me?
jacob		You're on my rez, remember? You surfing?
bella		Definitely not.
jessica		 Keep her company. Her date bailed.
eric		What date?
bella		 To be polite.
angela		I think it's nice she invited him. No one ever does.
mike		Because Cullen's a freak.
sam		You got that right.
bella		You know them?
sam		 The Cullens don't come here.
bella		You want to go look at tide pools?
bella		So, what did your friend mean about the Cullens not coming here?
jacob		Oops. Caught that, huh?
jacob		I'm not supposed to say anything.
bella		I can keep a secret.. .
bella		Like fur, fangs ... doggy breath?
bella		So the legend about the Cullens is.. .
jacob		Well, they're supposedly descended from this, like.. .
bella		Didn't they just move here?
jacob		Or just moved back.
bella		Riiiight. So what was this treaty?
bella		Wait... what were they really?
waylon		Jerry?
waylon		Come on, Jerry, you old mutt.. .
waylon		H-how did you do that?
james		Always the same inane questions.. .
james		What do you want?
laurent		 ... James, must we?
james		The question should be, will it hurt?
bella		They just... ditch?
bella		It's a family thing.
jessica		Oh my God, we need to hit the stores in Port Angeles before the dresses get cleaned out.
bella		Port Angeles?.. .  Can I go with you guys?
angela		Thank God. We need your opinion.
jessica		I think this halter makes my boobs look big. What do you think, Bella?
jessica		Bella?
bella		 It looks great.
jessica		You said that about the last five dresses.
angela		You sure?
bella		Look, just take my bag.
bella		What -- no, how did you find -- ?
edward		 I should go back and rip their heads off.
bella		No. Bad idea.
edward		You don't know the vile, repulsive things they were thinking.
bella		And you do?
edward		 Not hard to guess.
angela		Where were you!? We left you a message.
jessica		We waited, but we were starving -
edward		Sorry I kept Bella from dinner. We ran into each other and got talking.
bella		Okay, well. Thank you.
angela		That's so... thoughtful.
jessica		Really thoughtful.
bella		 I could eat.
bella		You're not eating?
edward		I'm on a special diet.
bella		Like South Beach?
edward		Not exactly.
edward		Yes, no. To get to the other side,
bella		I didn't ask for the square root of pi.
edward		You knew that?
bella		How did you know where I was?
edward		I didn't.
edward		 Don't go.
bella		Were you following me?
edward		I feel very protective of you.
bella		So that's a yes?
edward		Yes, I followed you. I tried to keep my distance...until you needed help.
bella		 You said before... That you heard what those guys were thinking.. . Can you... read minds?
bella		Why, what's wrong with me?
edward		I tell you I read minds and you think there's something wrong with you?
bella		What is it?
edward		I... don't have the strength to stay away from you anymore.
bella		Edward, you don't have to.
edward		 This is wrong.
bella		Edward -
edward		You're cold. We should go.
bella		Your hand, it's still freezing cold.
edward		That's my father's car. What's he -- ?
edward		Carlisle. What happened?
bella		He died? How?
bella		The same kind that killed the security guard down in Mason?
bella		So it's getting closer to town.
edward		Waylon lived all the way down on Queets River. 75 miles south.
bella		But that's -
bella		Dad, I'm sorry about Waylon.
charlie		Known him going on thirty years.
charlie		We'll get to the bottom of this, Bella. But in the meantime.. .
charlie		... I want you to have this.
bella		That's probably not a good -
bella		How old are you?
edward		Seventeen.
bella		How long have you been seventeen?
edward		... A while.
bella		I know what the Cold Ones are. What you are.
edward		Say it. Out loud. Say it.
bella		... Vampire
edward		Are you afraid?
bella		No.
bella		You won't hurt me. You're different.
edward		You think you know me?
bella		Where are we going?
edward		Up the mountain. Out of the cloud bank. You need to see what I really am. What I look like in the harsh light of the sun.
bella		No! The sunlight will kill you.
edward		Myth. You need to see the truth.
bella		Slow down.
edward		Are you afraid?
bella		No.
edward		Then come with me. Someplace where no one can protect you. Where I could do what I've wanted to do from the first moment I met you.
bella		I'm not afraid.
edward		Hold on.
edward		Are you afraid! ?
bella		No!
bella		Edward? Where are you?
bella		You're... beautiful.. .
bella		I don't believe that.
edward		Because you believe the lie. The camouflage. I'm the world's most dangerous predator. Everything about me invites you in - my voice, my face, even my smell. As if I need any of that.. .
edward		As if you could outrun me. As if you could fight me off.
edward		I'm designed to kill.
bella		I don't care.
edward		I've killed people.
bella		It doesn't matter.
bella		I trust you.
edward		Don't.
bella		I trust you, Edward. I'm here.
bella		Edward?
edward		You... took me by surprise.  I don't know how to... do this.
edward		Me, and my family, we're different from others of our kind. We're not nomadic, we have a permanent home. We only hunt animals. We've learned to control our thirst.. .
bella		 Oh... I thought you hated me when we met.
edward		I did. For making me want you so badly. I'm still not sure I can control myself.
bella		I know you can.
edward		I wish I could understand this thing you see in me. You look at me with those eyes.. .
bella		I'm afraid.
edward		 Good.
bella		Not of that. I'm afraid... you'll disappear. That I'll lose you.
edward		Be very still.
edward		And so the lion fell for the lamb.
bella		Stupid lamb.
edward		Sick masochistic lion.
bella		How long have you been like this?
edward		Since nineteen-eighteen. That's when Carlisle found me.
bella		Where'd he find you?
edward		In a hospital, dying of Spanish influenza. My parents had already died.
edward		Not just. Our bite contains venom. And once we taste blood, a sort of.. . frenzy begins. It's almost impossible to stop.
edward		First with me, then with his wife, Esme. He found her in a hospital, as well. The others followed.
edward		... No, that's just Carlisle. He would never do... this, to someone who had another choice.
bella		So Carlisle's the reason why you hunt animals, instead of people.
edward		Not the only reason.
edward		We call ourselves vegetarians, by the way... For our kind, hunting animals is like living on tofu. It keeps you strong but isn't very satisfying.
bella		Show off.
edward		It's not that impressive, really. Anyone in my family can do this.
bella		Can they all read minds, too?
edward		No, that's unique to me. But Alice can see the future.
edward		Her visions are very subjective. The future can change.
edward		Come to my house tomorrow.
bella		Your house? With your family?
bella		I'm glad I amuse you.
bella		What is it?
edward		A complication.
edward		I'll pick you up tomorrow.
bella		Come to visit your truck?
jacob		Looks good. You got that dent out.
billy		Actually, we came to visit your flat screen. First Mariners game of the season. Plus Jacob here kept bugging me to see you again.
charlie		Pale Ale.
billy		 Harry Clearwater's homemade fish fry.
billy		Any luck with the Waylon case?
bella		A person did that?
jacob		A crazy person, walking around barefoot this time of year.
charlie		Spread the word out at the rez, will ya? Keep the kids out of the woods.
billy		Will do.  Don't want no one else getting hurt.
bella		It's... wonderful. EDWARD You expected turrets, dungeons and moats? BELLA No... not moats. He takes her hand. She girds herself. They head inside.
edward		Thanks to tinted windows... It's the one place we never have to hide.
bella		Bon giorno?
esme		Molto bene!
esme		I hope you're hungry.
bella		Oh, absolutely -
edward		She already ate.
rosalie		Perfect.
bella		I just assumed -- because you don't eat, you know.. .
esme		Of course. That was very considerate of you.
edward		 Ignore her. I do.
rosalie		Yes, let's keep pretending this isn't dangerous for all of us.
bella		I would never, ever tell anyone.
emmett		The problem is, you two have gone public now, so.. .
rosalie		No, she should know.
bella		... Badly?
bella		 And you're Jasper, right?
jasper		Pleasure to meet you.
alice		 You won't hurt her, Jasper.
edward		I'll give you a tour of the house.
alice		 I'll see you soon.
bella		Graduation caps?
edward		A private joke. We matriculate a lot.
bella		What a nightmare, repeating high school.
edward		... and this is my room.
bella		So you're obsessed with music. But.. .  No bed?
edward		No sleep.
bella		Ever?
edward		No nightmares, no drool, no snoring.
edward		Do you have any favorites?
bella		Depends. Alternative? Jazz? Sixties, seventies.. .
edward		Ooh, she knows her music. Alright, nineties. Eighteen-nineties. Classical.
bella		I'd have to say... Debussy.
edward		My favorite, too.
bella		No dancing.
edward		Ever?
bella		No tripping, no falling, no derision.
edward		 I can always make you.
bella		You don't scare me.
edward		You really shouldn't have said that.
bella		Don't you dare -
esme		She's brought him to life.
esme		Alice has been wrong before.
edward		Trust me?
bella		In theory.
edward		Then close your eyes.
edward		Open.
eric		Gambling, tuxedos and - -  Bond. James -- ow!
charlie		Guys, we got something -
victoria		They took the bait.
james		By tomorrow they'll be half way to Winnipeg.
mike		Yo, Arizona. So. You and Cullen.
bella		Sorry I'm late. Biology project.
charlie		Ordered you the seafood combo.
bella		Order one for yourself next time. You should cut back on the steak.
charlie		I'm healthy as a horse.
charlie		The suspect's moving east. Kitsap County Sheriff is taking over from here. They're putting extra guys on.
cora		Hope they catch him fast.
charlie		Your friends are flagging you.
charlie		It's okay you wanna join them. I'm just gonna turn in early anyway.
bella		Yeah, me, too.
charlie		It's a Friday night. Go out. The Newton boy's got a big smile for you. Nice family, the Newtons.
bella		He's just a friend.
charlie		None of the boys in town interest you?
bella		We're not really going to talk about boys, are we?
charlie		Just... you should be around people. I leave you alone too much.
cora		Berry cobbler, two forks.
bella		So spring training's going well?
bella		Actually, Forks is kind of growing on me.
rene		(stops, knows there's
bella		 Maybe.. .
rene		Tell me everything! Jock? Indie? Bet he's smart. Is he smart?
bella		 Well... he is kind of a history buff.
bella		I, uh... have to go.
rene		No way, we gotta talk boys. Are you being safe?
bella		I'll call you later, Mom.
bella		How did you get in here?
edward		The window. As always.
bella		You've been here before?
edward		What else is there to do at night?
bella		You're a peeping Tom! Perv!
edward		Shh! The Chief will hear you!
edward		I just... like watching over you.
edward		There's something I'd like to try.
bella		 Oh... I'm... oh.
edward		I'm stronger than I thought.
bella		Wish I could say the same. I'm so embarrassed.
edward		Don't be. But we have to be careful.  I can never lose control with you. Ever.
charlie		He's too old for you.
bella		We're both juniors. I thought you liked the Cullens.
charlie		And I thought you weren't interested in any of the boys in town.
bella		Edward doesn't live in town. And it's in the early stage and - - whatever, he's outside right now.
charlie		Now? He's out there?
bella		He wants to meet you. Officially.
charlie		Good.
bella		Be nice, okay? He's... important.
edward		Chief Swan. I wanted to formally introduce myself. I'm Edward.
edward		I won't keep Bella out late tonight. We're just going to go play baseball with my family.
charlie		Bella's going to play baseball?
charlie		Well. More power to you, I guess.
edward		 She'll be safe with me, sir, I promise.
charlie		 You got that pepper spray?
bella		No fair, reading Charlie's mind.
bella		And since when do vampires like baseball?
edward		It's the American pastime. Plus, there's a thunderstorm coming. It's the only time we can play. You'll see why.
esme		Good thing you're here. We need a umpire.
emmett		 She thinks we cheat.
alice		It's time.
bella		 Now I get why you need the thunder.
bella		That has to be a home run.
esme		Edward's very fast.
bella		Yer out?
alice		Stop! I didn't see them.. .
alice		They're traveling so quickly -
alice		They did, but then they heard us.. .  And changed their minds.
edward		 Put your hair down -
rosalie		Like that'll help. I could smell her from across the field.
edward		I shouldn't have brought you here. I'm so sorry.
laurent		I believe this belongs to you.
laurent		Could you use three more players?
laurent		I'm Laurent. This is Victoria. And James.
laurent		Our apologies. We didn't realize the territory had been claimed.
laurent		Really? Well, we won't be a problem any more.
victoria		The humans were tracking us, but we led them East-
james		You brought a snack.
emmett		 Just try it.
laurent		Yes, I can see the game is over. We'll go now. James?
edward		James is a tracker. I saw his mind. The hunt is his obsession, and my reaction set him off - -
edward		-- We're a large clan of strong fighters all protecting one vulnerable human.
edward		The first place he'll go is your house. He'll track your scent there.
bella		I said, leave me alone!
edward		Bella, don't do this. Just think about it, please -
bella		Get out! It's over.
charlie		Bella? What happened?
bella		I have to get out of this place. Out of Forks. I'm leaving. Now.
bella		No, Dad.
charlie		Then what? Did he break up with you?
bella		I broke up with him.
charlie		I thought you liked him?
bella		That's why I have to leave. I don't want this. I want to go home.
edward		 I'll be in the truck.
charlie		Your mother's not even in Phoenix.
bella		She'll come home. I'll call her from the road.
charlie		You can't drive home now. I'll take you to the airport in the morning.
bella		I want to drive. I need time to think. I'll pull into a motel in a few hours. I promise.
charlie		Bella... I just got you back.
bella		His face... I said the same words my mother used when she left him.
edward		It was the only way he'd let you go.
edward		Your father's safe now, Bella. The tracker is following us -
edward		It's alright. It's just Emmett. Alice is in the car behind us.
laurent		I've grown tired of his games. But he's got unparalleled senses. Absolutely lethal. I've never seen anything like him in three hundred years ... And the woman, Victoria, will back him. Don't underestimate her.
laurent		I'm truly sorry for what's been unleashed here.
jasper		I've had to fight our kind before. We're hard to kill.
edward		But not impossible. We'll tear him up
rosalie		If he doesn't get to one of us first.
rosalie		Too late.
edward		I'll run Bella south, while you lead the tracker away -
alice		I'll go with Bella. Jasper and I will drive her south.
edward		 Can you keep your thoughts to yourself?
edward		Esme, Rosalie, put these on so the tracker will pick up Bella's scent.
bella		If any of you get hurt because of me -
edward		We won't, there are five of us, two of them. When it's done, I'll come get you.
edward		You're my life now.
alice		You should eat.
bella		They could get hurt. It's not worth it.
jasper		 Yes. It is.
jasper		Edward's changed since he found you. And none of us want to look into his eyes for the next hundred years if he loses you.
jasper		What do you see?
alice		 The tracker. He just changed course.. .
alice		Mirrors. It's a room of mirrors.
bella		How do the visions work? Edward said they weren't always certain.
jasper		She sees the course people are on, while they're on it. If they change their minds, the visions change.
bella		So the course James is on now will lead him to... a ballet studio?
alice		 You've been here?
bella		No. I don't know. I used to take ballet lessons as a kid. The school had an arch like that.
jasper		Was your school here in Phoenix?
bella		Yeah, around the corner from my house. But I haven't been there in ten years.
jasper		Do you have any reason to go now?
bella		No. Hell, no. I hated the place.
edward		I'm coming to get you. (hates having to say
edward		Bella, we're in too deep. We can't change how we feel.. .
bella		No... we can't.  When will you get here?
edward		In a couple hours. Then you and I will go somewhere. Together. The others will keep hunting.
bella		Mom, I'm so glad you got my - -
bella		Calm down, Mom. Everything is fine, okay? I'll explain every -
bella		... Mom? Are you there?
james		I was prepared to wait for you. But then Mom came home after she received a very worried call from your Dad. It all worked out quite well.
james		I must say, Forks High School doesn't protect its students' privacy very well. It was just too easy for Victoria to find your previous address.
bella		Leave my mother out of this.
james		You're protective of her. That's nice. You can still save her. But you'll need to get away from your friends. Can you do that?
bella		I... don't think so.
bella		Where should I meet you?
james		The old ballet studio around the corner. And I'll know if you bring anyone along. Poor mommy would pay the price for that mistake.
bella		 8th and Palo Verde, please.
bella		Everyone makes fun of me.
rene		But you're a wonderful dancer.
bella		Mom, I suck.
james		That's my favorite part. Stubborn child, weren't you?
bella		She's not here.
james		Sorry. But you really made it too easy.
james		So to make things more entertaining, I'm going to make a little film of our time together. Borrowed this from your house. Hope you don't mind.
james		Excellent! An escape attempt.
james		It'll break Edward's little heart.
bella		Edward has nothing to do with this.
james		Beautiful! Very visually dynamic. I chose my stage well.
james		Still stubborn, aren't you? Is that what makes you special? Because frankly, I don't see it.
james		Too bad he didn't have the strength to turn you. Instead, he kept you this fragile little human. It's cruel, really.
james		Well done! You've succeeded in annoying me.
james		Tell Edward how much it hurts.
james		Tell him to avenge you.
bella		No! Edward, don't.. .
james		Cut! The end.
james		You're alone... because you're faster than the others. But not stronger.
edward		I'm strong enough to kill you.
bella		It's on fire! My hand!
edward		Venom - -
edward		No!
alice		It's going to happen. I've seen it -
edward		It doesn't have to be that way.
bella		It's burning!
edward		What's the other choice? You said -
edward		I -- won't be able to stop -
edward		It's alright, Bella. I'll make it go away.
rene		He never leaves. And your dad's down in the cafeteria.
bella		What... happened?
rene		Baby, you fell down two flights of stairs and through a window.
rene		It's Phil. He's worried about you.
bella		Mom, you're... texting.
bella		That's great mom.
rene		Jacksonville is always sunny and you'll have your own bathroom.. .
bella		Mom, wait. I want to live in Forks. I have Dad.. .
rene		 And he's there.
rene		Charlie doesn't like him. Blames him for your leaving.
bella		What do you think?
bella		Um, Mom, would you mind getting Dad? I want to talk to him. Apologize.
rene		I'm sure he doesn't care about that, Baby. But Ill go get him.
bella		Is James - did you -- ?
edward		We took care of him. And the woman, Victoria, she ran off.
bella		I'm alive because of you.
edward		 You're in here because of me.
edward		The worst of it... was thinking I couldn't stop -
bella		But you did.
edward		Bella, you should go to Jacksonville. Where I can't hurt you anymore.. .
bella		What? No! I want to be with you! I don't want -
charlie		Heard that before.
charlie		... and... you look beautiful.
edward		Prom is an important rite of passage. I don't want you to miss anything.
edward		Shall we?
bella		 You're serious.
edward		See? You're dancing.
bella		At prom.
bella		I want you. Always.
edward		 I won't end your life for you.
bella		I'm dying anyway. Every minute, I get closer, older
edward		That's how it's supposed to happen.
bella		Not the way Alice saw it.  I heard her. She saw me like you.
edward		Her visions change, Bella.
bella		Based on what someone decides. And I've decided.
edward		Is that what you dream about? Becoming a monster?
bella		I dream about being with you forever.
edward		You really want this?
bella		Yes.
bella		Yes.
edward		You're going to have a long and happy life with me. Isn't that enough?
bella		For now.
****Dialogues from script :Twilight__New_Moon.txt****

bella		Edward!
bella		Edward!
bella		... Gran?
bella		Stop - she'll see!
bella		Oh my God.
edward		Happy birthday.
charlie		Happy birthday, Bells.
bella		Dad, we agreed, no gifts.
charlie		At least mine's not wrapped.
bella		Okay, this is actually kind of great. Thanks, Dad.
charlie		 Goes with this one from your mom. We coordinated - well, she coordinated me.
charlie		To put your pictures in, record your senior year -- man, senior year. How'd you get so old so fast?
bella		Not that old.
charlie		I don't know. Is that a wrinkle?
charlie		I was kidding.
bella		So not funny, Dad.
mike		You finish the Shakespeare assignment?
jessica		He means will you finish his assignment? MIKE No, I don't -- okay I do.
bella		I can help you with it -- but first --  I need a picture. My mom's expecting a scrapbook full of memories.
angela		 I take `em, I don't pose for `em.
bella		You do today.
jessica		You'll photoshop my nose if it looks big, right?
eric		Don't worry, I'm in the picture; no one will be looking at you guys.
bella		Don't remind me.
bella		It's one year older than you.
edward		Bella, I'm ninety.
bella		True. Maybe I should be creeped out that I'm dating such an old guy.
bella		God, Jacob, what are they feeding you on that rez, steroids? You're huge.
jacob		Wouldn't seem so drastic if you came around more.
bella		I will, soon. But isn't your school, like, ten miles that way?
jacob		 Oh, and hey, happy birthday. Your dad told my dad. So...
bella		This, I need. It's great.
edward		The bell's about to ring.
bella		Bye, Jake, and thank you.
edward		How come Jacob Black gets to give you a gift and I don't?
bella		He's just a friend.
edward		"Friends" don't spend two weeks looking for the perfect dreamcatcher.
bella		Stop reading his mind if he bothers you so much.
edward		Little hard to tune out.
alice		Happy --
bella		Shh!
alice		-- birthday.
bella		Alice, didn't I say no gifts?
alice		You did. I didn't. I've already seen you open it and guess what? You love it.
bella		You had a vision about my birthday.
alice		And about the green dress you'll be wearing to your party tonight. Great color on you.
romeo		Arms, take your last embrace, and lips, O you, the doors of breath, seal with a righteous kiss...
romeo		Here's to my love!  O true apothecary!    Thy drugs are quick.
bella		 Juliet's alright... if you like that obviously beautiful sort of thing.
edward		Not the girl - the suicide.  Nearly impossible for my kind. But humans, a little poison, dagger to the heart. There are so many options.
bella		 Why would you even think about that?
edward		 I considered it. Once.      When James had you trapped.
edward		I didn't know if I'd find you in time. If I'd gotten you killed --
bella		It wouldn't have been your fault --
edward		Either way, I had a plan.  BELLA What plan?  EDWARD There are... ways for us. At least one way. I would have gone to Italy, provoked the Volturi...  BELLA The who?  MR. BERTY Is there something you'd like to share with the class, Edward?  EDWARD  The closest thing my world has to royalty... 
edward		Francesco Solimena painted this; he often depicted the Volturi as Gods.
bella		Is that... Carlisle?
edward		Yes. He lived with them for a few decades. He describes them as very refined - for killers.
bella		Don't even -- talk about that. You can't let anyone hurt you. The Volturi or anyone else.
edward		Victoria? Yes, some day. But Alice will see her coming. And she won't win.
bella		I hate that I can't protect you.
bella		That was me being serious.
edward		 You give me a reason to stay... un- dead. But it's... my job; to protect you...
alice		It's time it's time it's time!
esme		Like that's even possible.   Happy birthday, Bella.
alice		 Found it in your bag.   Mind?
emmett		Dating an older woman.    Hot.
emmett		What?
rosalie		It's a necklace. Alice picked it out.
alice		For your scrapbook.    Now open your presents!
bella		Alice, I'm the only one who even eats cake. That thing could feed fifty.
alice		Hope you're hungry.    Here, this one's from Emmett. The others crowd around... Jasper somewhat away. Bella, no fan of being the center of attention, opens the gift to find an empty car-radio box.
bella		Um... thanks?
emmett		Already installed it in your truck.
edward		Finally, a decent sound system in that piece of --
bella		No hating on the truck.     Thank you, Emmett.
alice		Open mine.
bella		Ouch - paper cut.
alice		 Jaz... shhh --
carlisle		Emmett, get Jasper out of here.  Emmett.
carlisle		I'll have to stitch this up.
edward		I'll carry her to the kitchen.
carlisle		I'll take care of her, Edward.  Check on Jasper. Go.
bella		Your giving me forever.
edward		 I won't be coming back.   Not tonight.
bella		Edward.   You're here.
edward		Walk with me?
edward		We need to leave Forks.
edward		It's time. Carlisle's supposed to be ten years older than he looks; people will start noticing.
bella		But... when?
edward		Now.
bella		-- I belong with you --
edward		-- You don't --
bella		-- I'm coming --
edward		I don't want you to come!
edward		I promise, it will be like I never existed. Goodbye, Bella. And here, for the first time, we SEE how truly agonizing this really is for Edward. But Bella doesn't see.
bella		-- Wait --
bella		Edward?!
charlie		I'll call the Cullens again. Her note said she and Edward went for a walk.
billy		They left town, Charlie. HARRY CLEARWATER Hospital said Doc Cullen got a big job somewhere else.
jacob		Charlie!
billy		It's Sam Uley. He found her.
charlie		Thank you, Sam. Thank God.
charlie		What were you thinking, Baby?   Why were you out there?
bella		He's... gone.
carlisle		No.   We promised Edward.
alice		But she won't do well without us. I get flashes of her, but they're unclear --
rosalie		Forget her, let's drag Edward home.
esme		He'll come back when he's ready. After Bella moves on.
jasper		 You mean safe from us.
rosalie		 And when will that be?
emmett		Can you see him, Alice? They all turn to Alice... a beat. She closes her eyes, trying to get a lock on Edward -- PUSH IN ON ALICE as --
alice		The only decision he's made...
charlie		It's about time you got rid of those, Bob. Seen one too many bikers smeared on the highway.
bob		Save the lecture, Chief. Soon as the garbage truck hauls `em off, you and my wife can rest easy.  Oh, hey, what's the word on that bear problem? Folks are saying they're huge.
charlie		 That's just... talk...
bob		How you doin' there, Bella?
charlie		That's it.
bella		That's what?
charlie		You're going to Jacksonville to live with your mother. BELLA What?   Why?
charlie		I just - don't know what to do any more. You don't act like someone left you; more like someone died.
bella		I'm not leaving Forks.
charlie		Bells, the bastard's not coming back.
bella		I like my old friends.
charlie		You never even see them anymore.
bella		I do, too. In fact, I'm... um... Jessica and I are going to Port Angeles tomorrow. Shopping.
charlie		 You hate shopping.
bella		That's how good a friend I am.
charlie		 Alright. Shopping.
bella		... Yes, Bella Swan. Hey, any chance you feel like shopping tomorrow?
bella		I bought something.
jessica		Socks don't count. `Course, I was surprised you even called.
bella		I've been kind of... out of it.
jessica		Kind of? I mean, at first I was worried. Then I'm like, okay, she's still bumming? It's not like I wasn't going through things, too. Like Mike deciding he wanted to "just be friends?" That was really hard and --
bella		I know them... I think...
jessica		Can we just go --
bella		I want to see something.
edward		Turn around, Bella.     This is dangerous.
bella		... You're not them.
jessica		What the hell is wrong with you?!
bella		 I... saw something. JESSICA You.   Are insane. Or suicidal.
jessica		So, what, you're like an adrenaline junky now? Go hang-gliding or bungie- jumping. Don't be a complete freak.
jacob		`Bout time you came by.
bella		I brought you something.
jacob		Scrap metal. You shouldn't have.
bella		I rescued them from the dump. They'd cost more than they're worth to fix... unless one had a mechanic-type friend. JACOB Me, being the mechanic-type friend?  Since when are you into motorcycles?
bella		Recently.
jacob		 The parts alone will be pricey.
bella		I have a college fund I can dig into.
jacob		Charlie's gonna love that.
bella		Charlie won't know.
jacob		Wow. Lying to Dad. Blowing through college money. Repairing dangerous machines - that I'm guessing you'll want to ride?
bella		I really get it if you think this is stupid and reckless. JACOB Oh it's totally stupid and reckless.  When do we start?
tim		We're going the wrong way.
nate		Who cares?   Enjoy the scenery.
tim		 And the West Nile virus.
tim		You hear that?
nate		If I knew you were such a wuss, I'd have brought my grandma.
tim		Could be one of those giant bears. NATE There are no giant --
tim		What the hell is that?!
nate		I don't know!
tim		Think it's gone?
jacob		You influence me?     Please.
bella		I am older than you.
jacob		Age ain't nothin' but a number.
bella		And I convinced you to secretly build us two-wheeled death machines.
jacob		 Yo, Jake, you in there?
jacob		It's cool, it's just my boys.
embry		Hey, Jake --
jacob		Hey. This is Bella.         Bella, that's Quil and Embry.
quil		So the bike building story is true.
bella		Taught him everything he knows.
quil		What about the part where you're his girlfriend? BELLA Oh, we're just friends.
jacob		 I said she's a girl and a friend.
quil		Embry, you remember him making that distinction?
embry		Nope.
bella		So I guess you guys have girlfriends. JACOB  Right. Quil took his cousin to prom.
quil		Yeah, that's still a riot. You want funny, Black? I'll give you funny.
embry		I got five bucks on Quil.
bella		You're on.
jacob		Quil keeps asking to come over. I think he likes you a little too much.
bella		Tell him I'm not into the cougar thing.
jacob		What is it with you and age? I mean, that Cullen guy was young, didn't seem to... bother you.
jacob		We got lucky at the dump. You know how much a new crankshaft goes for?
bella		Sure, I spend all my free time on crankshaft-dot-com.
jacob		I think that's a porn site.  These bikes are gonna be rolling soon. Where should we ride first?
jacob		Like there's any place sunny around here.
bella		I know a place above the cloud line --
jacob		So we'll find our sunny spot, right?
bella		Isn't that... Sam Uley?
jacob		 And his cult.
jacob		They're not really fighting, Bella. They're cliff diving.
bella		What, on purpose?
jacob		Scary as hell, but a total rush.
jacob		Most of us jump from lower down.
bella		Think I could?
jacob		Man, first motorcycles, now cliff diving?
bella		You said it was a rush.
jacob		Maybe on a warmer day. And not from the top. We'll leave the showing off to Sam and his disciples.
bella		You don't like them.
jacob		They think they run this place.   Acting all bad ass, calling themselves "protectors."
bella		What are they protecting?
jacob		The tribe, the land, their right to be jerks. Embry used to call them hall monitors on steroids; now look at him.
bella		That's Embry? I didn't recognize him. What happened to him?
jacob		He missed some school - then, out of nowhere, he's following Sam around. Same thing happened with Paul and Jared. They weren't even friends, now Sam owns them.  Sam keeps giving me this look, like he's waiting for me or something; it's kinda freaking me out.
bella		Maybe you should just avoid them.
jacob		I try but...
bella		Hey.   If it gets worse, we'll go to my Dad.   Or you can come stay with us.
jacob		Thanks.  If this is how you're going to react, I'll freak out more often.
jessica		I'll kill Tyler if he gave me his flu.
angela		It's going around. My sister was so sick she couldn't come on our hike this weekend... so she didn't see it.
angela		 ... We saw it.
bella		You're not the only one. Everyone stares.    Did Bella just speak?
bella		My dad's been getting reports at the sheriff's station. A couple hikers went missing. People are scared.
mike		I did hear some guy talking about it at the store.
cut to:		ECU ON JACOB AND BELLA'S FACES
jacob		You look scared.
bella		I'm not.
jacob		Brake?  You ready?
jacob		You okay?   Bruises, breaks -- ?
bella		I'm going again.
jacob		I'm not sure that's a good -- Bella quickly rises and hops back on.
jacob		Guess we're going again. Now what are you going to do with the clutch?
bella		Release it.    Slowly.
bella		 I don't -- how do I turn!?
jacob		Bank it!   Bank - hit the brake!
jacob		What, are you training for the X-games?
bella		I want to go again.
jacob		Forget it. I'm revoking your motorcycle privileges. Man, look at your head.
jacob		It's just blood, Bella.
jacob		How hard did you hit your head?
bella		More than anyone.    But... that's all.
jacob		Because of Cullen?
jacob		Look, I know what he did to you. I can see it in your face every time his name comes up. But you need to know - I would never, ever do that to you. I promise I will never hurt you. You can count on me. BELLA I already do. You don't know how much. You're my best friend but... I don't think my feelings will change.
bella		I'm sorry. I should've said something right from the start --
jacob		No. That's not -- I just feel... weird.
jacob		It doesn't... feel like flu.    I don't know what it is.
bella		Jacob.   Please. Call me.
charlie		Harry and I will be back by three --
bella		He's too sick to even call?
charlie		You just gotta wait it out.  You know, I don't have to go fishing...
bella		 No, go. I'll call Jess or someone.
charlie		Good. But stay here or at Jess's. No hikes or anything. We're issuing a warning about those bears.  Off Bella's nod --  EXT. THE WOODS - DAY  SERIES OF CUTS - Bella tries to navigate her way to the meadow. She refers to a map, a compass.  BELLA  - DAY  -- Bella steps into the clearing, hopeful... but her face falls. In contrast to the warmth of her memory, the meadow is cold, gloomy, cloudy. And no Edward. She closes her eyes, trying to force Edward here.  Nothing.   Her eyes open on the empty, overcast meadow.  Bella sinks to her knees. Tears threatening. But then she hears a RUSTLING noise. She turns toward it, peers into the woods.  Another RUSTLING NOISE comes from another part of the woods. She spins toward it -- nothing. Then she turns and JUMPS when she finds --  Vampire LAURENT standing just ten yards away.    Dreadlocks, chiseled face. Bella can't believe it. 
bella		Laurent?
laurent		I must admit, I didn't expect to find you here.
bella		I live here. But you - I thought you were in Alaska with Carlisle's friend.
laurent		Tanya, I was. It was kind of him to arrange, given my association with James and Victoria, "The Enemy."
bella		You tried to help us.
laurent		I went to visit the Cullens, but their house is empty. I'm surprised they left you behind. Weren't you sort of a pet of theirs?
laurent		Do the Cullens visit often?
edward		Lie.
bella		Absolutely.    All the time.
edward		Lie better.
bella		I'll tell them you stopped by.
bella		Will they be able to reach you in Alaska?
laurent		I don't think so. Tanya's "vegetarian" family was pleasant enough. But the dietary restrictions were difficult - living on nothing but animals.
laurent		But that's not why I left. I came back here as a favor to Victoria.
bella		... You're still friends.
laurent		 More or less. She asked me to get the lay of the land with the Cullens. Because, well... I'm afraid Victoria is quite put out with you.
bella		That's... too bad.
laurent		Yes. She feels it's only fair to kill Edward's mate, given he killed hers. Eye for an eye, mate for a mate.
edward		Threaten him.
bella		Edward will know who did it.   He'll come after both of you.
laurent		I don't think he will. After all, how much could you mean to him if he left you here unprotected?  Victoria sent me here for information. She won't be happy about my killing you. BELLA No, Laurent...
laurent		I... don't believe it.
edward		Don't.   Move.
charlie		Bella?   What's wrong?
bella		They're not giant bears -- I saw them. Up in a meadow --
charlie		Damn it, I told you not to go into the woods!
harry clearwater		What did you see, Bella?
bella		Wolves.   They're wolves, Dad.
charlie		Harry, can you get some men from the rez?
harry clearwater		Sure.   Yeah. I'll just --
charlie		 Something dangerous. Victoria.
bella		Hi, Billy.   I know Jacob's sick but --
billy		He's out with friends. BELLA  Oh.
billy		I'll let him know you came by.
bella		Wait -- he's got mono, right?    That's what you told my dad.
billy		 You should go on home, Bella.
bella		You cut your hair.
jacob		Go away.
bella		What happened to you?
bella		 I can help.
bella		Sam got to you. What did he do?
jacob		Sam's trying to help me, don't blame him.
bella		Then who? JACOB  How `bout those filthy, reeking bloodsuckers you love? The Cullens.
jacob		I can't be friends with you anymore. BELLA Jake, I know I hurt you. I should have been more up-front but -- I needed you, I still do. I don't know what that means yet, but if you give me time --
jacob		Stop.    Don't. It's not you --
jacob		You already have --
bella		Don't say that -- you promised --
jacob		Go home, Bella. Don't come back.
charlie		Billy called, said you and Jacob had a fight. But, hey, you guys will work it out, I'm sure of it.
bella		I'm... going to change.
bella		Why!?
bella		What the hell are you doing?
jacob		Get out of the way.
bella		No! He launches himself THROUGH the window with great agility --
jacob		I had to talk to you.   Alone.
bella		Then leave.
bella		Find what out? He starts to speak -- but can't.   It's agonizing.   She sees he's in pain. Is concerned.
jacob		No, that's too dangerous --
bella		I'll take the risk.    Jacob, show me.
jacob		Where was the last place you saw me... the way I used to be?
bella		The motorcycles - that clearing in the woods. He nods slowly, then turns to go.    She stops him.
paul		What the hell have you done?!
jacob		I didn't tell her.   You'd know if I did.
paul		She's here, isn't she?
sam		Bella, there's nothing to see here. You should go home.
bella		Not until I know what you did to Jacob.
paul		 What we did?!
sam		Both of you, calm down --
jacob		Sam, she knows things about the bloodsuckers. She's been on the inside. She can help --
paul		Like a leech lover's gonna help us.
jacob		Watch what you call her.
embry		Get a grip, guys --
bella		It's alright, Jacob, I'll go --
paul		All you care about is her -- SAM  Paul, back off.
paul		-- and she doesn't give a crap about you --
sam		Jacob.
jared		Too late.
sam		Take Bella to Emily's place.
embry		Guess the wolf's out of the bag.
embry		Oh, hey, about Emily - Sam's fiance - just try not to stare. It bugs Sam.
bella		Why would I stare? --
emily		You guys hungry? Like I have to ask... Emily looks toward them now -- REVEALING the other side of her face: A scar runs from hairline to chin, three red lines that pull down her eye and twist her mouth.
emily		Who's this?
jared		Bella Swan.    Who else?
emily		So you're the vampire girl.
sam		Hey, Em.
embry		Ha!   Pay up. As Jared reluctantly hands Embry five bucks, Jacob's eyes find Bella's. He nods solemnly to the door; we should talk.
bella		 Vampires? Jake, no --
jacob		 Don't worry, we can't touch your precious Cullens - unless they bite someone and violate the Treaty --
bella		That's not what I -- you can't fight vampires. They're too dangerous.
jacob		Please. We took out that leech with the dreads easy enough.
jacob		It's what we do, why we exist. A few "lucky guys" in the tribe have the gene. If a bloodsucker moves to town, our DNA kicks in, we reach the right age and the fever hits --
bella		 "Mono."
jacob		I wish. Next thing I know, they're telling me, this is your life now. That future you saw for yourself? Gone.
bella		It's bad, huh?
jacob		I just hate feeling... out of control. Like maybe Sam is right; you shouldn't be around me.
bella		Like you could get rid of me.
jacob		You've seen Emily.
bella		You're not like that. You save people, right? You saved me from Laurent.
jacob		Yeah, didn't mind taking him out. His red-headed girlfriend will be fun, too.
bella		Victoria.     She's here?
jacob		We chased her all the way to the border the other night. But she won't stay gone. Keeps coming back -- if we knew what she was after...  ... What?
bella		I know what she wants.      Me. SMASH TO:
victoria		James hated cars. He liked being close to the ground. But I'd steal one occasionally, to throw him off the scent... See, we played hide and seek sometimes. No one can hide like me --  -- but no one could seek like James.
denise		What -- what are you -- ? VICTORIA Some games   lasted months... but we always got   hungry for each other.  So I'd let   him find me...
denise		Michael?    Oh my God --
victoria		We never could get enough of each other...  We would have had forever to try.
victoria		James always loved a screamer.
jared		Excellent. If the redhead's after Bella, we've got bait.
jacob		She is not bait.
bella		I should leave town.
sam		Victoria will follow you and make it harder for us to catch her.
charlie		You got something, Harry?
harry clearwater		Nope, nothin'.
bella		Yes!
jacob		Breathe, Bella! C'mon!
jacob		Bella?   Can you hear me?
bella		... Jake? She focuses, finally SEES Jacob hovering over her, relieved. Behind him stands Sam.
sam		She'll be alright.
jacob		What the hell were you thinking?
bella		I needed... to see... something.
jacob		What? The pearly gates?   If we hadn't heard you scream --
sam		Get her home. I'm heading to the hospital. I'll meet you there.
jacob		Why would you jump? Didn't you notice it's like a hurricane out here?
bella		I know. It was stupid --  -- Sam said hospital - someone's hurt?
jacob		Harry Clearwater had a heart attack.
bella		Oh my God - does my Dad know?
jacob		He and my dad are both over there.
bella		Will Harry be okay?
jacob		I don't know. Come on. I'll find you something dry and drive you home.
jacob		Hundred and eight degrees over here.
bella		Must be nice, never getting cold.
jacob		It's a wolf thing.
bella		 Yeah, `cause that would be fun.
bella		I won't let that happen.
jacob		Holy crap -- !
jacob		There's a bloodsucker out there.
bella		How do you know?
jacob		I can smell the stink.   I'm getting you out of here. As Jacob whips the truck around, the HEADLIGHTS ILLUMINATE --
bella		Stop!   It's not Victoria --
jacob		Forget it --
bella		It's Carlisle's car!   They're here. Go back! --
jacob		It's a trick --
jacob		Damn it, Bella --
jacob		Stop.   You gotta come with me. BELLA It's okay.   They're my friends --
jacob		Don't you get it? If a Cullen is back here, this is their territory. The Treaty says we can only defend our own lands.
bella		-- It's not a war --
jacob		It is. And you'll only be safe in La Push. I can't protect you here anymore.
bella		I don't need you to --
jacob		-- You're about to cross a line -- BELLA Only if you draw one.
jacob		Bye, Bella, I hope you don't die.
bella		Alice! ALICE You're... alive.
bella		Oh my God, Alice.    You're here.
alice		I heard voices - I didn't think it was you but - you're alive.
bella		You keep saying that.
alice		I saw you - a vision of you - you jumped off a cliff. I knew I'd be too late but --  Why the hell would you try to kill yourself?!
bella		I didn't.    I was cliff diving.
alice		Why?!
bella		Um... fun?
alice		That was fun for you.
bella		Until I hit the water.
alice		I have never met anyone more prone to life-threatening idiocy... and what is that hideous wet dog smell?
bella		Oh. Probably Jacob.      He's kind of a werewolf.
bella		Werewolves are not vicious.
alice		Until they lose their tempers.
bella		They saved me from Laurent, they're protecting me from Victoria --
alice		 Victoria? I didn't see her. I didn't see you get pulled from the water either.
bella		It was Jacob who saved me. More than once. I couldn't have made it without him. You have no idea what it was like.
alice		 Yes. I do. I knew leaving wouldn't be good for you. I tried to tell Edward, but he wouldn't listen.
bella		 ... Does he know you're here?
alice		No.   He's been... away...
edward		What?
edward		I'm hanging up now...
rosalie		Wait!... You should come home.  Esme's a wreck, Carlisle never smiles. Even Emmett's depressed. You've really done a number on them.
rosalie		I... I just miss... us.   The family.
rosalie		But see, you don't have to worry about that, not anymore --
edward		Why, Rose?   Did something happen?
rosalie		I - uh --
edward		Tell me, Rosalie.  Tell me! --
rosalie		 -- Alice had a vision. She saw Bella - - throw herself off a cliff... She's dead, Edward.
charlie		Thanks for understanding, Bells. They wanted to keep the service small.
bella		Don't worry about me.    Are you gonna be okay?
charlie		Yeah... but Sue, and those kids -- Leah's only a year older than you. And Seth's, what, fourteen...
charlie		There'll be a reception after. I might stay late, see if I can help.
alice		You're not going?
bella		I'm not the most popular person on the werewolf rez right now.
alice		 Because you're friends with me.
alice		Huh. Didn't see them coming. Didn't see him pull you out of the water - maybe my visions are allergic to dogs.
bella		-- Alice.
alice		 I'll go do some hunting.
bella		Quil... you, too?
quil		 Yeah. Me, too.
jacob		You alone?
bella		Yes.   Shouldn't you be at the funeral?
jacob		Had to talk to you first.  I'll meet you there. Go on.
jacob		This place stinks to hell.
bella		You're welcome to leave.      In fact --
jacob		-- How many Cullens are here and how long are they staying?
bella		 Just Alice. And she'll stay as long as she wants.
jacob		Are the rest coming back?
bella		Not that I'm aware of.      Anything else?
jacob		That's it.
bella		Better go report to Sam.
jacob		I've done it again. I keep breaking my promise not to hurt you.
bella		It doesn't have to be this way.
jacob		Yeah, it does.
bella		Am I gonna lose you this time, Jacob?
bella		Alice, what's wrong?
alice		... Edward.
bella		What about him? What happened?
alice		I just saw him in a vision.   He... thinks you're dead.
jacob		Why do you have to go?
bella		He won't believe Alice.    He has to see that I'm alive.
jacob		 He left you, Bella. He didn't want you anymore, remember?
bella		But I still love him, and I'm not gonna let him kill himself out of guilt. This wounds him. But she can't stop to soothe him.         She pulls away and continues packing.
jacob		What about your dad?
bella		I'm eighteen, legally free to go. I'll leave a note.
alice		Got the airline tickets.
jacob		 You Cullens might hunt animals but those monsters in Italy don't.
alice		I'm well aware what the Volturi are. JACOB Then why are you taking Bella to them like a bottle of wine to a party?
alice		Right, she's better off here with Victoria stalking her. The one you dogs can't seem to catch?
bella		Let's go.
jacob		Please, Bella. Stay here.   For Charlie... for me.
bella		Bye, Jacob.
alice		Maybe Jacob's right.  No. You need to realize - the Volturi could easily see me as Edward's accomplice. And you're a human who knows too much and tastes too good. They could kill us all.
edward		Have you decided?
aro		It was an intriguing debate.     We don't get many suicidal vampires.
caius		Pathetic.
aro		I'm afraid your gifts are too valuable to destroy. But if you're unhappy with your lot, join us. We'd be delighted to utilize your skills.
edward		So you won't end this.
marcus		Not without cause.
aro		Such a waste.
bella		Where'd you get the car?
alice		Hope you're not opposed to grand theft auto.
bella		Not today.
bella		How much time do we have.
bella		 It's almost noon now.
alice		There's Volterra.
bella		Why are they all wearing red?
alice		San Marcos Day festival. The perfect setting. Large crowds. The Volturi won't let him get far enough to reveal himself - he's counting on that.
bella		We only have five minutes --
bella		Where's the square?
alice		Follow that lane --
alice		He'll be under the clock tower!
italian man		Fare attenzione!
bella		Edward! -- -- GONG! Bella's cry is drowned out by the BOOMING CHIME. She pushes toward him, fighting to reach him as --
bella		No, Edward!    Don't!
edward		 You're... not real.
bella		Look at me!    Alice was wrong.
edward		Bella?
bella		Please, step back.   I'm alive, I'm --
edward		You're here.
bella		I'm here. They share a long look, he's about to kiss her again... when suddenly, he stiffens -- and abruptly PUSHES Bella behind him, taking a protective stance in front of her --
edward		I won't be needing your services after all, gentlemen.
felix		Aro wants to speak with you again.
edward		No rules were broken.
demetri		We should take this conversation to a more appropriate venue.
edward		Fine. Bella, why don't you stay and enjoy the festival?
felix		The girl comes with us.
edward		That's not going to happen --
alice		Come on, guys, it's a festival.
edward		 Jane.
bella		 Just do as she says.
jane		Follow me.
edward		It's alright. Alice will catch you.
gianna		Buon pomeriggio.
aro		What a happy surprise! Bella is alive after all. Isn't that wonderful?
aro		Her blood appeals to you so much it makes me thirsty. How can you stand to be so close to her?
edward		It's not without effort.
aro		 I can see that.
edward		One touch and Aro can see every thought I've ever had in my life.
aro		You're quite the telepath yourself, Edward. Though... you can't read Bella's thoughts. Fascinating.
aro		Interesting.
aro		I wonder if --
aro		Jane, dear.    The girl?
aro		Remarkable! She confounds us all.      So what do we do with you now?
aro		That's true. Unless Edward intends to give her immortality...  But that's not your intention, is it. Shame.
bella		Do it!    Kill me! Just leave them alone! -- as she yanks her collar back, exposing her neck to him. Aro is surprised and intrigued. A beat.
aro		Enough.
edward		Get away from her -- !
aro		Ah yes, the clairvoyant. I saw your gift in Edward's thoughts. What is it you've seen? EDWARD ... don't...
alice		It will happen, Aro.   See for yourself.
aro		Mesmerizing! To see the things you've seen, that haven't happened yet!
alice		I'm so sorry.
aro		 Your gifts will make for an intriguing immortal. Go make your preparations.
demetri		 Nice fishing, Heidi, save some for me.
heidi		 This way, please. Stay together...
tourist husband		Unusual tour, isn't it? TOURIST WIFE Bill, get a picture of that bust there.
bella		-- Stop!
bella		It... wasn't a dream.
edward		Go back to sleep. You've been through a lot.
edward		Will you? I don't deserve it but... I hope you will. Because I honestly have no idea how to live without you.
bella		You won't be able to get rid of me once Alice changes me.
edward		She won't have to. There are ways to keep the Volturi in the dark.
bella		 They'll come after your whole family. You'd risk that just to keep me human?
edward		Just? You really don't understand what you'd be giving up.
bella		I really do. They look at each other; an impasse.    She decides something, grabs her jeans, pulls them on--
bella		You're not the only one with a say in it.
bella		You all know what Edward wants. And you know what I want. But I won't force myself on you...
bella		I think the only fair way to handle this is by vote -- EDWARD You can't be serious --
bella		 This is my meeting, Edward.
bella		However this turns out, I'm not letting the Volturi hurt you. I'll go back to Italy alone --
emmett		The hell you will.   I'm not missing another fight.
bella		That's not up for a vote, Emmett.    I don't want you involved.
esme		We've always been involved, honey, and we're not going to stop --
bella		No, please -- I want you to seriously think about this. If I join you, you'll be stuck with me for a long time - forever. It's a huge decision. And I want - I need your honesty here.
bella		Then let's take a vote... Alice?
alice		Like you're not already my sister.     Of course, yes!
jasper		I vote yes. It'll be a relief not to want to kill you.
bella		Um.   Thanks? Okay, Rosalie? Rosalie, torn, looks at Edward who's stony toward her.
rosalie		Edward, I'm sorry for what I did. I really am. And I know you're not ready to forgive me...  So... no.
emmett		I vote hell yeah. We can pick a fight with these Volturi some other way.
esme		I already think of you as part of the family. Yes.
bella		Thank you, Esme. Carlisle moves, not to Bella, but to --
carlisle		Edward --
edward		You can't go along with this, Carlisle, you know what it means.
carlisle		You've chosen not to live without her, which leaves me no choice. I won't lose my son.  But Alice has never turned anyone. It'd be safer if I did it --
bella		Thank you.    Thank you all. EXT. CULLEN HOUSE - SAME
victoria		Where you headed?
driver		Seattle.
victoria		 Sounds perfect.
edward		When? BELLA After graduation.
bella		It'll be best for Dad that way. I can pretend to be at college somewhere. Carlisle suggested it. But...  I wish you'd be the one to change me.
edward		 Would you be willing to trade for that?
bella		 Name it.
edward		Five more years as a human.
bella		The Volturi won't wait that long.
edward		I'll settle for three.
bella		 I won't risk it. It'll have to be Carlisle.
edward		Why are you so willing to give up your soul?
bella		Because I don't believe you've lost yours. And I want to share mine with you forever.
edward		He wants to talk to me.
bella		Well, he can talk to me first.
jacob		You're still alive.
edward		He thinks I'm keeping you away.
jacob		 Stay the hell out of my head!
bella		Dad grounded me, Jake. We're trying to get back before he wakes up.
edward		Jacob, I know you have something to say to me, but I'd like to say something first. Alright?
edward		 Thank you. For keeping Bella alive when I... didn't.
jacob		No, you didn't. And it wasn't for your benefit, trust me.
edward		I know. I'm still grateful.  But I'm back now. And I'm not leaving Bella's side till she orders me away.
jacob		We'll see.
edward		Either way, we'll handle Victoria from here on out.
jacob		She's been laying low. Ever since your freaky sister showed up. Guess she can't stand you Cullens either.
edward		She'll come back.
jacob		She does, she's ours.   She killed on our turf.
edward		We'll see.
edward		 I haven't forgotten.
jacob		Good.
bella		What?   What key point?
jacob		If any of them bites a human, the truce is over. That's bite, not kill.
bella		 But... if I choose it, it's none of your business.
jacob		If you... what!? No.      No way.   I won't let you --
edward		-- Bella, step back --
jacob		You're not gonna be one of them.
bella		That's not your call --
jacob		 You know what we'll do to you - I won't have a choice -- EDWARD We're done here --
jacob		You don't speak for her!
bella		Stop!
edward		 Get out of here. Now!
bella		 You do this, you'll be going through me.
bella		I swear to God, I'm not moving.
bella		 Give me a second. Please.
bella		Read his thoughts.   Is he going to hurt me? Edward does, and finally, reluctantly backs away. But his eyes never leave the wolf's. They glare at one another.
bella		Jacob, I love you. You're my best friend. But... I can't change how I feel. Please don't make me choose.  Because it'll be him. It's always been him.
bella		But you know how important you are to --
****Dialogues from script :Twin_Peaks.txt****

cole		GET ME AGENT CHESTER DESMOND IN FARGO, NORTH DAKOTA.
cole		CHET, I AM CALLING YOU FROM PORTLAND...  OREGON.
desmond		OK, Gordon.
cole		NO, IT'S OREGON, PORTLAND, OREGON. IT'S REGIONAL BUREAU CHIEF COLE.  OUT IN PORTLAND OREGON.  I NEED YOU OUT HERE, CHET.
desmond		 OK, Gordon.
cole		OREGON.  A YOUNG GIRL HAS BEEN MURDERED.  SEVENTEEN YEARS OLD. NAMED TERESA BANKS.
desmond		 Okay, Gordon!!!
cole		GOT A MAP OF THE ENVIRONS OF THE YAKIMA INDIAN RESERVATION WITH YOUR NAME ON IT.  BETTER BRING A POLE.
desmond		Smell something fishy, huh?
cole		I'VE GOT A SURPRISE FOR YOU, CHET. SOMETHING INTERESTING THAT I WOULD LIKE TO SHOW YOU.  ARRANGEMENTS ARE BEING MADE AND I WILL MEET YOU AT THE PORTLAND, AIRPORT.
cole		 CHET, GIVE SAM STANLEY THE GLAD HAND.  HE'S COME OVER FROM SPOKANE.
stanley		It's a pleasure.  I've heard a lot about you.
cole		SAM'S THE MAN WHO CRACKED THE WHITEMAN CASE.
desmond		Congratulations.  I heard about that.
cole		 YOUR SURPRISE, CHET.  HER NAME IS LIL.
cole		SHE'S MY MOTHER'S SISTER'S GIRL.
desmond		 Federal?
cole		GOOD LUCK, CHET.  YOU CAN REACH ME AT THE PHILADELPHIA OFFICES.  I AM FLYING OUT TODAY
desmond		Right, Gordon.  We'll be in touch.
stanley		That was really something.  That dancing girl.  What did it mean?
desmond		Code.  If you work with Gordon you learn that right away.
stanley		Code, I've heard a lot about this.
desmond		Sort of shorthand.
stanley		 Shorthand.  really?
desmond		We're heading into a difficult situation.
stanley		How do you figure?
desmond		I'll explain it to you.  Do you remember Lil's dance?
desmond		Lil was wearing a sour face.
stanley		What do you mean?
desmond		Her face had a sour look...  that means we're going to have trouble with the local authorities.  They are not going to be receptive to the FBI.
desmond		Both eyes blinking means there is going to be trouble higher up...  the eyes of the local authority.  A sheriff and a deputy. That would be my guess.  Two of the local law enforcers are going to be a problem.
stanley		Oh, the uncle is missing.
desmond		Not Cole's Uncle but probably the sheriff's uncle in federal prison.
stanley		So the sheriff had got an Uncle who's committed a serious crime.
desmond		Right, which is probably why Lil was wearing a red wig meaning we are headed into a dangerous situation.  Let me ask you something, Stanley, did you notice anything about the dress?
stanley		The dress she was wearing had been altered to fit her.  I noticed a different colored thread where the dress had been taken in.  It wasn't her dress or she must have lost some weight.
desmond		Gordon said you were good.  The tailored dress is our code for drugs.  Did you notice what was pinned to it?
stanley		A blue rose.
desmond		Very good, but I can't tell you about that.
stanley		What did Gordon's tie mean?
desmond		What?  That's just Gordon's bad taste.
stanley		Why couldn't he have just told you all these things?
desmond		He talks loud.  And he loves his code.
stanley		I see.  He does talk loud.
desmond		Gordon would not have sent us to Deer Meadow without thinking it was a high priority situation.
stanley		It must be a high priority situation.
desmond		Good afternoon, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Special Agent Chet Desmond.  I'd like to see Sheriff Cable.
cliff		Why don't you folks have a seat.  Make yourself at home.  It's gonna be a while.
desmond		Okay, that's it.  I've had enough of the waiting room now.
cliff		 Oh.
desmond		You can start that FRESH pot of coffee right now.
cable		How the hell did you...
desmond		Federal Bureau of Investigation, Special Agent Chet Desmond.
cable		Well, little fella, we don't need any outside help here.  I don't like you people sniffin' around my neck of the woods.  In fact, when the state boys called me about a "J. Edgar" coming up I think I said, "So what?"
desmond		Your behavior is not funny and is wasting the time of the Federal Government.
cable		You're lucky I am not wasting you.
desmond		Well, little fella, let me put it this way. The operative word here would be "Federal".  With or without the semantics of all this, I am now ordering you to release all pertinent information concerning Teresa Banks, both while living and deceased.
cable		A basic kill.  Banks was a drifter and nobody knew her.  My boys have been all over this.  It's a dead end.
desmond		That's why we're here, Sheriff Cable. Where's the body?
cable		Out back in our morgue
desmond		We've got our own clock.  We'll lock up.
stanley		You know, Agent Desmond, I figure this whole office, furniture included, is worth 27,000 dollars.
desmond		 No one came to claim the body and no known next of kin.
stanley		Solved the Whiteman Case with this.
desmond		That's what I heard.
stanley		No one could find those splinters without a machine like this.  And no one had a machine like this.
desmond		That's good.
stanley		Yes, it is good.  What do you think is in these other drawers?
desmond		I don't know, Sam.
stanley		Maybe, later we could take a look.
desmond		Sure, but let's finish up with this first.
stanley		 Crushed skull.  Probable cause repeated blows to the back of the head with an obtuse angled blunt object.  Subject looks to be between 16 and 18 years of age.
stanley		I wonder where her ring is?
desmond		Yeah.  Personal effects include a watch, under garments, and a blue waitress uniform...  the ring is missing.  It says the rest of her things haven't been removed yet from the trailer.  Let's hope it's there.
stanley		There appears to be a contusion under the ring finger of her left hand.
desmond		Oh.
stanley		A laceration.
desmond		Accidental?
stanley		Agent Desmond, would you hold the finger for me.  There's something up there.
desmond		What is it?
stanley		It is a piece of paper with the letter "T" imprinted on it.  Take a look.
stanley		Geez, Agent Desmond, it's three-thirty in the morning.  Where are we going to sleep?
desmond		We're not.  You and I are going to get some food.
stanley		Yes, it's been several hours since we've eaten.  I didn't realize that so much time had past, did you, Agent Desmond?
jack		Had the FBI here once before.  Back in the fifties when Hap was running the place.
desmond		Where's Hap?
jack		He's dead - good and dead.
desmond		Sorry to hear it.
jack		He didn't suffer.
desmond		I'd like to ask you a few questions about Teresa Banks
jack		Sheriff Cable's already asked me a few questions about Teresa Banks.  She worked nights for a month.  That's it.
desmond		Any friends?
jack		No.
desmond		Ever see her with someone else?
jack		No.
desmond		Did she ever mention any friends?
jack		No.  Ask Irene over there.
irene		Take a good look around.  There's nobody in this place - you're meetin' the reason why.  What'll it be?
desmond		How come Jack let's you work here?
irene		Jack and I are united in holy matrimony.
desmond		Say no more.
desmond		 Federal Bureau of Investigation, Special Agent Chet Desmond.  I'd like to ask you a few questions about Teresa Banks. Jack said you knew her.  How well?
irene		She only worked here a month.  Nice girl.  Never seemed to get here on time though.  Ask me she had a little problem with --
desmond		What happened to her?
irene		There was only one job.  Teresa took the job.  Her friend took a hike.  Never saw her again.
desmond		Did you ever see Teresa take cocaine?
irene		No.
desmond		Do you take cocaine, Irene?
irene		No, I do not.  I never took cocaine or any other drugs.  I don't take drugs.
stanley		Nicotine is a drug.  Caffeine is a drug.
irene		Who's Shorty?  Those drugs are legal.
desmond		He's with me.  Anything you would like to tell us about Teresa Banks that would help us out?
irene		I've thought about that.  I think her death is what you would call a "freak accident".
desmond		Thanks.
old guy		You talking about that little girl that was murdered?
desmond		You have something to tell us?
old guy		Yeah.
desmond		What?
old guy		I can tell shit from shinolah.  Gets me along way down that road.
stanley		You think we ought to question him?
desmond		What time is it, Stanley?
stanley		Oh...
stanley		 Agent Desmond, it's...
desmond		It's late, Sam.
stanley		 It's not late, it's early.  Really early.
irene		You know, I never told anybody, but once for about three days, just before her time, Teresa's arm went completely dead.
desmond		What do you mean?
irene		Her left arm.  It was numb.  She said she couldn't use it.  Said it had no feeling. Probably from the drugs she was taking.  I just thought I ought to tell you.
desmond		Thanks.
stanley		I doubt it was drugs, more likely a problem with a nerve.  I could recheck the arm for injuries, but for real nerve work we are going to have to take the body back to Portland.
desmond		I think that's a good idea.
desmond		I think we should see the sun rise at the Canyon Trailer Park.
stanley		Are you speaking to me in a code?
desmond		No, Sam, I'm speaking plainly and I mean just exactly what I say.
stanley		In that case, we should go to the Canyon Trailer Park.
stanley		Thank god it is morning.
voice		OH, GOD, WHAT...  WHAT...
voice		CAN'T YOU READ!
stanley		Nine's really late.  We are really early.
carl		God damn, this better be important.
desmond		Federal Bureau of Investigation, Special Agent Chet Desmond and Agent Sam Stanley.  Sorry to disturb you, but we would like to see Teresa Banks' trailer, please.
carl		More popular than Uncle's Day at a whorehouse.  GOD DAMN, THAT MORNING SUN IS BRIGHT!  BLUE BRIGHT.
desmond		Did she have someone with her?
carl		Right.  She had a friend with her.  The friend took off.
desmond		Was there an argument?
carl		Not that I know of.  But arguments do happen, don't they?
desmond		Yes they do.  Did she have visitors?
carl		No, hey, I already told this whole damn thing to Sheriff "Not-Quite-Able"... Here's the trailer now.
stanley		 She lived alone.
desmond		She must have known someone.
stanley		I'll get my kit.
stanley		 5,600 dollars.
desmond		Take a look at this.
stanley		She's wearing a ring.
desmond		My guess is there isn't enough detail in the photo to get an idea of the design on the ring, but we should do a blowup of this anyway.
stanley		 There doesn't seem to be enough detail in the photo to ascertain the design on the ring.
carl		I'm gonna make myself some Good Morning America.  You want some?
desmond		You weren't kiddin'.  This stuff's got the sting of the forty-eight hour blend.
carl		That's right.  That's the best coffee you're gonna get around here.
stanley		 We really do need a good "wake me up", don't we, Agent Desmond?
desmond		Did you know Teresa Banks?
cliff		Hey, how's J. Edgar doin'?  Bet you appreciate them bustin' your mornin' in half, eh, Carl?  Bet they woke you up.
carl		They're only doing their job.
desmond		What are you doing here in the trailer court, Deputy?
cliff		Maybe I just live here, what do you think about that?
desmond		Can I ask you where you were the night Teresa Banks was murdered?
cliff		You can tell J. Edgar that I was at a party and I got fifteen fuckin' witnesses.
carl		Maybe if you did a little less partyin' that little girl would still be alive.
cliff		Is that right, Mr. Jack Daniels?
desmond		Did you know Teresa Banks?
cliff		Got a couple of cups of coffee at Hap's from her.  That's it.  By the way where do you get off questioning a lawman?  I could ask you the same question.
desmond		No you couldn't.
desmond		Is there a golf course around here?
carl		Not a lot around here, no.  Got some clubs, but not very many fellas with balls.
desmond		Thanks for your help, Carl.  Sorry we woke you up.
carl		That's alright.  I was having a bad dream.  I was dreamin' about a joke with no punchline.
stanley		I couldn't help but notice that you had a suspicion that Deputy Cliff was the murderer.  You did think that, didn't you, Agent Desmond?
desmond		He's not the murderer.  But he's a bozo.
stanley		Yes, he is like a clown.
cable		What the hell is that thing doing out there?  You're not taking that body anywhere.
desmond		We're taking the body back to Portland and there's not a thing you can do about it.
cable		Maybe not _a_ thing, but maybe _two_ things.
desmond		Teresa Banks had a ring.  Any idea what happened to it?
cable		We got a phone, here, that's got a little ring.
desmond		 Sheriff Cable, where were you the night Teresa Banks was murdered?
cable		 My alibi is as strong as these bands of steel.
stanley		 When he says, "Discussion", how do you take that, Agent Desmond?
desmond		I don't take it, Sam.  I give it.
cable		Now, J. Edgar, I'm going to take off my badge, here.  Do you mind?  The only way you're going to get that body is over mine.
cliff		 You try that you little monkey.
desmond		I think I'll take off my badge as well.
desmond		 This one's comin' from J. Edgar.
desmond		Who's next?
desmond		Take the van back to Portland, Stanley. I'm going to take one more look at the trailer park.
stanley		 One thing that has been troubling me. That lamp at the diner.  Do you think they were working on it for esthetic reasons or was their work due to faulty wiring?
desmond		Faulty wiring.
stanley		Esthetics are subjective, aren't they, Agent Desmond?  I'm Sam Stanley.  If you ever need me.
desmond		Thanks, Sam, for the good work.  You have a good eye for detail.
stanley		We do notice things, don't we, Agent Desmond?  Are you going back to the trailer park for the Blue rose?
stanley		 83,000 dollars.
carl		 And that's Deputy Cliff's trailer over there.  The red one.
chet		Right.
carl		I'll be in my trailer if you need me.
cole		EVERY SYLLABLE OF EVERY WORD IS THE SOUND OF TWO HANDS CLAPPING.  IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID, ALBERT?
albert		Six to eight hands clapping.  I was referring to the possibility of a little silence.
cooper		I know you haven't changed your hair and I've seen that beautiful dress before, but I must say, Diane, you look sensational today.
cooper		 Another triumph for the dashing Agent Cooper.  And you, Diane, now have to clean the coffee cup, get fresh ground coffee from Sally and make a damn great pot of coffee.
cooper		What is it, Gordon?
cole		COOP, AGENT CHET DESMOND HAS DISAPPEARED.  GONE LIKE THE WIND IN DEER MEADOW.
stanley		Agent Chet said he wanted to check the trailer court one more time.  He had me drive the van with the body back here. Which we did.  It was 105 miles.
cooper		Anything else?
stanley		Did Gordon show you a woman named Lil?
cooper		I'm up to speed, Stanley.
stanley		Agent Chet wouldn't tell me what the Blue Rose meant.
cooper		And neither will I.
stanley		 You know, I liked Agent Desmond.  He had his own M.O.
stanley		I cracked the Whiteman case with this.
cooper		 Stanley, I heard all about it.
stanley		No one could've found those splinters without a machine like this and no one has a machine like this.
cooper		Tell me about the letter.
stanley		Take a look at this.  Chet and I found it under Teresa Banks' ring fingernail.
cooper		And no one found the ring?
stanley		No, sir, we did not.
stanley		I'm Sam Stanley, if you ever need me.
carl		GOD.  I'm beginning to lose faith in the United States Government and that includes the telephone system.  Don't you folks talk to one another.  That's her trailer there and I haven't touched a god damn thing.  Agent Chet Desmond come by a second time and asked too see Deputy Cliff Howard's trailer  After that I never saw him again.
cooper		Thank you, Carl.
carl		 That's not the way to Cliff's trailer.  I told you.
cooper		I am not going to Cliff's trailer.
carl		Well, where are you going?
cooper		I am going over here.
carl		 God damn, you people are confusing.
cooper		What was here, Mr. Rodd?
carl		A trailer was here.  What the hell do you think?
cooper		Can you tell me who's trailer it was... and who stayed in the trailer?
carl		An old woman and her grandson.
cooper		Can you tell me what their names were?
carl		Chalfont.  Weird.  Chalfont was the name of the folks that rented the space before they did.  Two Chalfonts.
cooper		Is that Agent Desmond's vehicle?
carl		Yep, it sure is.
cooper		 Diane, it's 4:20 in the afternoon.  I am standing here at Wind River where they found the body of Teresa Banks.  Diane, this case has got a strange feeling for me.  Not only has Agent Chester Desmond disappeared but this is one of Cole's Blue Rose cases.  The clues that were found by Agent Desmond and Agent Stanley have lead to dead ends.  The letter below the fingernail gives me the feeling that the killer will strike again. But like the song says, "...who knows where or when".
cooper		Gordon, it is 10:10, on February 15th.
gordon		SO?
cooper		I was worried about today from the dream I told you about.
cole		RIGHT.  GOOD WORK.
head clerk		Here's your key, Mr. Jeffries.  I hope you enjoy your stay here at The Palm Deluxe.  This is for you.  The joven...  ah...  young lady...  she left it.
bellhop		612 --- very nice.
cooper		 Gordon.
cole		PHILLIP!
albert		Phillip?
cooper		Phillip?
cole		COOPER, MEET THE LONG LOST PHILLIP JEFFRIES.  YOU MAY HAVE HEARD OF HIM AT THE ACADEMY.
jeffries		I'm not going to talk about Judy.  Keep Judy out of this.
cooper		But...
cole		STAND FAST, COOP.
jeffries		 Who do you think that is there?
albert		 Suffered some bumps on the old noggin', eh, Phil?
cole		WHAT THE HELL DID HE SAY?  ARE YOU OKAY, JEFFRIES?  WHERE THE HELL HAVE YOU BEEN?
jeffries		I want to tell you everything, but I don't have a lot to go on.  But I'll tell you one thing:  Judy is positive about this.
albert		How interesting.  I thought we were going to keep Judy out of this.
jeffries		Listen to me carefully.  I saw one of their meetings.  It was above a convenience store.
albert		Who's meeting?  Where have you been?
cole		FOR GOD SAKES, JEFFRIES, YOU'VE BEEN GONE FOR DAMN NEAR TWO YEARS.
jeffries		It was a dream.  We live inside a dream.
albert		And it's raining Post Toasties.
jeffries		 NO, NO.  I found something...  in Seattle at Judy's...  And then, there they were...
jeffries		They sat quietly for hours.
first woodsman		 We have descended from pure air.
bob		 Light of new discoveries.
first woodsman		 Our world.
second woodsman		 Boneless.
mike		 Yes, find the middle place.
bob		 I HAVE THE FURY OF MY OWN MOMENTUM.
tremond's grandson		 Fell a victim.
bob		 Fire Walk With Me.
jeffries		I followed.
jeffries		 The ring...  ring...
cole		 ALBERT, I'LL TAKE THAT SECOND MINERAL WATER.
jeffries		May?  1989?
cole		WHAT...  AM I ALONE?
cole		HE'S GONE.
cooper		 What?
cole		ALBERT, COME BACK HERE.  HE'S GONE CALL THE FRONT DESK.
albert		 I've got the front desk right now.  He never was here.  No record of him entering the building...  and the doctors should be here any minute.
cole		 GREAT.  I, MYSELF, AM GOING TO BE READY FOR THEM.
cooper		What's going on?
cole		QUICKLY MEN...  WORD ASSOCIATION, COOP.  WHAT ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW?
cooper		Teresa Banks.
cole		ALBERT?
albert		Tylenol.
cole		 WHY ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT TERESA BANKS, COOP?
cooper		It was a year ago today that Teresa Banks was killed.  I'm wondering if the murderer will ever kill again.
cole		ALBERT, WHY TYLENOL?
albert		No offense, sir, but after a day with you it is mandatory.
jeffries		 Hey...  hey...
bellhop		 Oh, Mr. Jeffries.  De shit it come out of my ass!  Santa Maria, where did you go?
cooper		He was here.
laura		Donna?...  Donna?...
donna		Just a minute, Laura.
laura		If I am going to get through math today, you're going to have to bring me up to speed quick.
donna		You didn't do your homework?
laura		Noooo...
donna		 Okay, this test is going to be about the theorems I told you about last week.  You remember the...
laura		Don't tell me now.  Tell me right before the test.  I won't be able to remember long enough.
donna		You graduating this year will be proof that miracles happen.
laura		Thanks.
donna		James called me last night looking for you.
laura		When?
laura		He probably wanted to drive over.
donna		Were you with Bobby?  Or are you two still fighting?
laura		No, and yes.  I don't know what I'm going to do about Bobby.  I know he is seeing someone else and that's okay with me, and he thinks I'm seeing someone else and that's not okay with him.
donna		Are you going to tell him about that "someone else"?
laura		I don't know what to do.
donna		You know what your problem is?  You're just too adorable...
laura		 You know, I think you're right.  I'm just too adorable.
donna		 Laura Palmer, you're just too adorable.
laura		 I'm just too adorable.  I'm just too adorable.
admirers		"Laura...  Donna...  Laura...  Donna..."
mike		 That's why you need a real man, Babe, you're tough to handle.
donna		And you're the real man?
laura		James...
james		Laura, I'll meet you at 2:30 after phys. ed.
laura		Okay.
bobby		Hey, Baby.
james		Laura, do you love me?
laura		Yes, I love you.  I've told you, but it doesn't really matter.
james		Why?  It does.
laura		No, it doesn't...  just kiss me.
james		It does matter.  We're in love.
laura		James, you don't know what you are talking about.  Quit trying to hold on so tight.  I'm gone...  long gone like a turkey through the corn.
james		You're not a turkey.  A turkey is one of the dumbest birds on earth.
laura		 Gobble, gobble, gobble.
james		Don't ever leave, Laura, ever.  I'll never leave you.
bobby		Where were you for the last hour?  I've been lookin' for you?
laura		I was right behind you, but you're too dumb to turn around.  If he turned around he might get dizzy and fall down.
bobby		 I'M NOT KIDDIN'.  WHERE WERE YOU? WHO WERE YOU WITH?
laura		Get lost Bobby.
bobby		Oh, yeah?  You'll be callin' soon and maybe I'm not gonna be there.
laura		 Oh, come on, sweetie, give me one of your smiles.
bobby		 Love ya, Babe.
laura		Hi, E.H. EILEEN  D.H.
donna		Mom H.
laura		Why are you suddenly so interested in who I am going to see at night? Nighttime is my time.
donna		You're telling me, but only because you never let me in on any of it...  you're not going to see Bobby, are you?
laura		Maybe.
donna		Oh god, Laura.
laura		Well, why not?
donna		Because Bobby is a loser, you said so yourself.  He's a goon.  He loves you with that "lasting love"... "true love".
laura		Yes, James is very sweet.  Why don't you get out your violin, Donna?
donna		Sweet?  God, he's gorgeous.
laura		James is very sweet and very gorgeous.
donna		I wonder if Mike could ever write a poem?
laura		Faster and faster.  For a long time you wouldn't feel anything.  Then you would burst into fire...  forever.
donna		Maybe I better start our homework.
laura		Okay, I suppose I should go home.
donna		Call me.
laura		Sure.  What do you want me to call you?
donna		Call me anything just don't call me late for dinner.
laura		Mom...  Mom?
sarah		Laura, honey...  Cigarette...  Cigarette...
laura		Can I take the car?
sarah		Sure honey, what's the hurry?
laura		I forgot my books at school.
sarah		Laura.
laura		What?
sarah		You'll never be a smoker if you don't
harold		Laura?
laura		My secret diary.  There are pages missing.
harold		Who would do that?
laura		Bob.
harold		But Bob isn't real.
laura		The pages are gone.  That's real.
harold		Maybe.
laura		Bob is real.  He's been "having" me since
harold		What does Bob say?
laura		 He wants to be me...  or he will kill me.
harold		No...  No...
laura		 Oh, yes...  yes...
harold		What?  Please.
laura		FIRE WALK WITH ME.
laura		 The trees...  the trees...
laura		You're not Bob are you, Harold?  If you are, you can kill me right now.  Kill me right now, if you are.
harold		Laura, no, I'm not.  I'm not Bob.  Poor Laura.  I wish I could help you.
laura		I hate him, I hate it.  Sometimes I love it.  But now I'm afraid.  I am so afraid.
harold		But you're strong Laura...  so much stronger than I...  How can I help you?  I can't.  I can't even go outside.
laura		 It _is_ dangerous for you to have it.  I'm sorry.
harold		 I'm so sorry, Laura.
laura		I don't know when I can come back. Maybe never.
sarah		You lied to me about those school books. I found them upstairs on your bed.
laura		 What were you doing in my room?
sarah		I was looking for that blue sweater that you borrowed which I found balled up in the bottom of your closet.  Now why did you lie to me?  Where did you go?
laura		I had to see Bobby.  I know you really don't like Bobby, but there was a problem and I didn't think you would understand.
sarah		Oh, honey, you don't have to lie to me. Ever.  You can tell me anything.  I'll understand.
laura		I'm sorry, Mom.
sarah		Now hurry, dinner's almost ready.  Your father says he's starving.
leland		 "I'm hungry".
sarah		Oh, Leland.
laura		 Dad.
leland		 Hyggelig a mote dem.  Jeg Heter Leland Palmer.
leland		The Norwegians are coming next week and I want you to learn to say what I just learned in Norwegian.  So you can talk to them.  I want you to learn to say, "Hello, my name is Leland Palmer".
laura		But my name isn't Leland Palmer.
sarah		Neither is mine.  And can't we talk about something serious for a change.
leland		This is serious.  Mr. Benjamin Horne's got a delegation of Norwegians coming in next week and I want both of you to learn to introduce yourself.  Sarah, you first.
leland		Hyggelig a mote dem.  Jeg Heter Leland Palmer.
sarah		Hyggelig a mote dem.  Jeg Heter Sarah Palmer.
leland		Good.  We'll practice some more.  Laura, now you try it.
laura		Hyggelig a mote dem.  Jeg Heter Laura Palmer.
leland		All together now...
trucker		Friend of Leo's, right?  Partyland?
laura		If you can fuck and drive the party starts right now.
albert		Cooper, the ooze of mumbo jumbo is rising up above our heads.  Do you honestly think Cole's practice of word association works?
cooper		The very fact that we are talking about word association means we are in a space that was opened up by our practice of word association.  The world is a hologram, Albert.
albert		Yes, it's a great big psychedelic circus ride, isn't it, Cooper?
cooper		Albert.
albert		You said, "Teresa Banks", so you think something is going on somewhere in the world right now that is connected with her murder?
cooper		Yes.  Either right now or right when I thought of it.  The name and memory of Teresa Banks is haunting me.  Lately I have been filled with a knowingness that the murderer will strike again. Because it is only a feeling, I am powerless to stop it.  And another thing, Albert, when the next murder happens you will help me solve it.
albert		Let's test it for the record.  Will the next victim be a man or a woman?
cooper		A woman.
albert		What color hair will she have?
cooper		Blonde.
albert		Tell me some other things about her.
cooper		She's in high school.  She's sexually active.  She's on drugs.  She's crying out for some help.
albert		You're describing half the high school girls in America.  What is she doing right now?
cooper		 She is preparing a great abundance of food.
norma		Shelly, would you give Laura a quick hand with the "Meals on Wheels"?
shelly		I'm kind of busy, Norma.
norma		You're not busy, sweetheart, now go.
nadine		I changed my mind, I don't want any coffee, Eddie.
ed		Sorry, Norma.
shelly		Can I give you a hand getting the dinners together?
laura		That's alright, Shelly.  I know you have better things to do.
shelly		 Norma asked me to give you a hand.
laura		Okay.  You can help me carry them to the car.
tremond		This would look nice on your wall.
grandson		He's looking for a book with pages torn out.  He's walking towards the hiding place.  He's moving under the fan now.
laura		Shelly, you really can help me.  I can't do the "Meals on Wheels" today.  I just can't.
shelly		Okay.
shelly		Laura just took off.  She asked me to do the run today.  Should I do it?
norma		What's with that Laura?  Yeah, sure, take a look around.  There's no one here anyway.
shelly		You're right.  There's no one here.
norma		There's no one here.
shelly		Norma, are you alright?
norma		Come back as soon as you can.
shelly		If Leo comes here, he won't believe that I am out doing the "Meals on Wheels".
norma		Don't worry, Shelly, I'll handle Leo.
toad		Kind of quiet.
laura		 He's looking for the book, he's going to the hiding place!
laura		 What?  It can't be...  It can't be him...  no... no...
woman		Laura...
woman		What...  Laura are you all right?
laura		 I...  lost my necklace...  it must have fallen.
laura		 Oh, here it is.
woman		Well, I'm glad you found it, darling.
donna		Laura?
laura		Donna, are you my best friend?
donna		Of course...
donna		What is it Laura?  What's wrong?
laura		I just want a friend.  Just one friend for just one minute...
donna		Laura, how about one friend for the rest of your whole life?
laura		Yes, that's what I want.  Thanks D.
donna		Okay, L.  No, I am uptight.  I hate it...  I don't want to be this way, but Laura I don't...  I mean...  I'm your friend no matter what way you are.
laura		You know, even when I think about your face I get happier.
donna		Do you want to talk?
laura		No, I want to smoke.
donna		I'm in a mess today, too.  I'm thinking about doing it with Mike. What do you think?
laura		 Donna, you are such a crack up.  You don't even like Mike.  Is this what you are going to do to show me you are not uptight.
donna		This is about sex, not like.  You want a muffin?
laura		If I can smoke it.
donna		You want a muffin?
laura		Donna, you are a muffin.
doc		The red rose.  Where is the red rose?  You know the light at Sparkwood and 21?  It worked right there.  I just did it right there.
doc		 Why is it that you can't smoke at your home and I'm a doctor and I don't allow smoking in my home and I let you smoke in my home?
laura		 Because you love me so much.
doc		I do love you, you little smoking whipper snapper.
eileen		These muffins each have at least seven full huckleberries in them.
donna		Dad, what in the world are you doing?
doc		What the hell is this?
donna		It's a prescription.
doc		Is it?
donna		Dad.
doc		My handwriting is so bad that now I can't even read it.  You girls better hurry up and graduate from high school so you can take care of me.
doc		 It's for you.  It's your father.
laura		Hello...
leland's voice		Time to come home for dinner, honey.
laura		I gotta go.
donna		Goodbye, Muffin.
laura		No, you're the muffin.
laura		No, you're right.  I am the muffin.
leland		Hi, honey, how's Donna?
laura		Fine.
leland		School?
laura		...school's fine...
leland		Sit down...  sit down...  Are you hungry?
laura		Not really.
leland		You didn't wash your hands before you sat down for dinner did you?
leland		Let me see.
laura		Dad...
leland		Your hands are filthy...  look, there is dirt way under this fingernail.
sarah		Leland, what are you doing?
leland		Look at this finger here.
sarah		Leland...
leland		Laura didn't wash her hands before dinner.  And look at this.
leland		Oh, is this from a lover?
sarah		They don't call them lovers in high school, Leland.
leland		Bobby didn't give you this?
sarah		How would you know if Bobby didn't give her that?
leland		 Did Bobby give you that or is there someone new?
sarah		Leland leave her alone...  She doesn't like that.  Stop it.
leland		How do you know what she doesn't like?
sarah		Oh, Leland, sit down and eat you dinner.
leland		Oh, I'll sit down, but none of us are going to start eating till Laura goes and washes her hands.
sarah		What is it, Leland?
leland		I can't remember the last time I told Laura that I loved her.
sarah		Well, honey, go in and tell her now.
leland		Laura, honey...
leland		Goodnight, Princess.
cooper		 Don't take the ring...  Laura, don't take the ring.
annie		My name is Annie.  I've been with Laura and Dale.  The good Dale is in the lodge and he can't leave.  Write it in your diary.
james		Where were you last night?  We were supposed to get together.  You didn't show up.
laura		You were supposed to show up.  Maybe I wasn't.
james		We were supposed to be together.
laura		How can I be together if I'm not together?
james		You're on somethin' again, aren't you?
laura		James...
james		When am I going to see you?
laura		I gotta go.
leland		Who was that?
laura		A friend from school.
leland		A special friend?
bob's voice		Laura.
laura		No...  No, go away.
bob's voice		I'm glad you let me talk to you.  You used to not let me talk to you.
laura		Go away.  I am not talking to you.
bob's voice		I want you.
sarah		Laura?
sarah		Laura, now I can't find that blue sweater.  Did you take it again?
laura		Mom...  what are you wearing?
sarah		My god, I am going to have another breakdown.  God, god.
laura		Mom, take it easy.
sarah		No, no... this can't be happening.
laura		Mom, you're not having a nervous breakdown.
leo		Someone who knows how to clean knows where the object was before she started cleaning and then that object goes back to its exact same spot. Shelly, I know where everything in this house is.  Sometimes on the road I mentally go through this whole house and picture where every item is.
shelly		Lay off the bennies, Leo.
leo		 WHERE THE DIRT IS, SHELLY.
shelly		As if I didn't know.
leo		I'm going to show you how to wash this tile and then you're going to do it.
shelly		Come off it, Leo.  I'm late for work...
leo		What did you say?
leo		Shelly, I am not fooling around anymore. The first thing you've got to WORK on is a good attitude.  That's the key. Anybody will tell you that.
leo		Don't even _think_ about going anywhere, Shelly.  I'm not finished with you.
leo		What are you doing calling me here?... No way, you already owe me money... Five thousand, to be exact.
shelly		 Five Thousand???
jacques		How come you only call me when you are desperate?  Are you desperate, baby?
bobby		You interested or not?
jacques		Maybe, Bobby, baby.  Maybe.  I have friend who has what you want. His stuff is the best.
bobby		 Jacques...  you crazy Canadian.  This sounds BIG...
donna		Where are you going?
laura		No place, fast.  And you're not coming.
donna		Come on, Laura.  I'm your best friend.
laura		 Isn't tonight the night you are going to do it with Mike?
donna		Laura, aren't you going to fix me a drink?
donna		Where are the Cookies?
laura		You mean Fred and Ginger?
donna		Dancing.
donna		 If I had a nickel for every cigarette your mom smoked, I'd be dead.
laura		Gotta go, Donna.  I'll call you tomorrow.
log lady		When this kind of fire starts.  it is very hard to put out.
laura		 Margaret?
log lady		The tender bows of innocence burn first and the wind rises - then all goodness is in jeopardy.
trucker		Let's go around the world, babe.
laura		This isn't going to get you to Walla- Walla.
trucker		You do go all the way, don't you, little girl?
laura		Sooner or later.
laura		You willing to go all the way?  Huh?  You wanna do it for me.  All the way for me means all the way - DEAD.
donna		Let's boogie.
trucker		 You part of the deal?
laura		 No, she isn't.
laura		 What was your name again?
trucker		Buck.
laura		Buck, that was really nice.
donna		 What are you doing?
laura		Nothing.
donna		 I'm goin' for it.
donna		No.  I don't need to take this to be you friend.
laura		YES YOU DO, DONNA.  What a downer you are!!!
buck		 Hey, Tommy, Jacques beat us here.
tommy		Hold on, I'm chokin' the farm fed.
laura		Don't expect a turkey dog in here.
jacques		Hey, slow pokes, guess what?  There's no tomorrow.
jacques		Baby, you know why?  Cause it'll never get here.
laura		Hey, Jacques...
jacques		 No "Jacques".  I am the Great Went.
laura		 I am The Muffin.
jacques		And what a muffin you have.
jacques		 I am as blank as a fart.
laura		Hey, Donna, chug-a-lug.
jacques		Oh, Laura's friend.  I am "The Great Went".
ronette		You smell nice.
laura		Haven't seen you since I was thrown out of One Eyed Jacks.
ronette		 Hey, you know what?  It's been a year. She's been dead a year...  she's been dead a year.
jacques		The party twins.  My high school sandwich.  Let's put some meat inside...
ronette		She's been dead a year.
jacques		Who?
ronette		Teresa...
laura		Teresa Banks?  Yeah, a whole year.
ronette		Yeah, she was going to get rich...  she was blackmailing somebody...
jacques		That's right.  She called me.  She even asked me what your fathers looked like...
laura		 What?  She asked about my father?
jacques		But it wasn't him...  she was after a huge guy, six foot four with a broken nose. She said he looked just like a boxer. Speaking of sandwiches...  I think Bobby was arranging something for you...  SPEAKING OF ARRANGEMENTS...  Why don't you two come up to the cabin this week?  Leo and I know that Santy Claus is coming to town...  Thursday.
laura		 "The Great Went".
ronette		Here we go again.  Like we're back at One Eyed Jacks.
laura		 Oh, god.  It sure is.
ronette		Shit, is that Donna Hayward?
bob's voice		SEE WHAT WE CAN DO TO DONNA?
laura		 NO!  GOD, NO...
donna		 Okay, I won't wear your stuff...  Why can't I wear your stuff?
laura		Jacques, help me get her home.  NOW!
donna		I won't wear your stuff.  I promise.
laura		 Not you, Donna, not you.
nadine		ED...  ED.  I'll take over here.
nadine		You were cutting this deer like a sissy...  Sit down and watch while I do it.  AGAIN.  THIS YEAR.
ed		 Works every year...
sparky		Sure wouldn't work at my house.  My wife couldn't take the wrapper of a twinkie.
truman		Josie, I think we should go public.
josie		That would be wonderful, but it's only been a year since Andrew died.
truman		What are you afraid of?  What people think?
josie		I don't want to offend the customs of your country.
truman		Believe me, Josie, you would not offend the customs of this country.  For instance, I don't eat fish eyes.
josie		Fish eyes?
truman		Even if it offended someone, I wouldn't eat a fish eye.
josie		Why wouldn't you eat a fish eye, Harry?
truman		I saw a guy eat a fish eye once in Seattle.  He was digging through his food with his chopsticks for about five minutes till he found the fish eye and he dropped it into his throat.  I guess it must have gotten stuck in his uvula because right away he started to have trouble.  His throat began to flutter there like there was a wind blowing. And he couldn't swallow and they rushed to him and loosened his collar and they were asking him if he was alright and he started to turn blue and his eyes started to roll back into his head and he still couldn't get the fish eye out and they tried to do a Heimlich maneuver.  I went over to him as they were preparing to do an emergency tracheotomy.  They were over him with a knife when he suddenly shot the fish eye out of his throat and right onto the ceiling.  Splat!  It just stuck up there and spread out.  It was about the size of a half dollar.  And that's why I don't ever eat fish eyes.
josie		I understand.
truman		We throw away the _whole_ head.
donna		I can't remember anything about last night.  Is there something I should remember?
laura		No, you should forget about last night.
donna		Laura, I am your friend.
laura		I know you are and you don't have to do anything crazy to prove it.
donna		You're not mad at me?
laura		No.
donna		I feel so bad.  I had nightmares all night long.  They all knew you at that place.
laura		What can I tell you?
donna		How did the car get back here?
laura		WE got it back, that's all.
donna		How did I get in the house?  How did I get into my bed?
laura		I can't help you there.
donna		Was I wearing something of yours and you got mad at me?
laura		All my things have me in them.  I don't want you to be like me.
donna		But I love you, Laura.
laura		And I love you, too.  But don't wear my stuff.
donna		Why do you do it, Laura?
laura		Cause I like it.
leland		Excuse me, honey...
donna		 Catch you later.
laura		Dad, is the engine on fire?  Something is burning.
leland		It's the engine.
gerard		You stole the corn.  I had it canned above the store.
gerard		 Miss, the look on her face when it was opened.  There was a closeness.  Like the formica table top.
gerard		The thread will be torn, Mr. Palmer, the thread will be torn.
gerard		 It's him.  It's your father.
laura		DAD!...  What was that all about?  Who was that?
mechanic		Mr., Mr., you shouldn't do that to your engine.  You ought to take it easy, Mr., you're going to burn your engine out.
leland		What the hell was all that?  Why doesn't someone do something about all of this. My god, that guy came out of nowhere. He was harassing my daughter.
laura		Dad, are you all right?
leland		Teresa Banks.  You look so much like my Laura.
teresa		That sounds like fun...  Where did you see my picture?...  Okay, come to the Blue Diamond City Motel...  Yes, that's just your side of Blue Diamond City...  I'll be there.  Room one two three...  Right, as in "Get Ready".
teresa		 When's the next business trip, big fella?
leland		Soon.  How about next time we party with the girlfriends you told me about?
teresa		I can arrange that.  I like that.
teresa		What are you doing?
leland		Who am I?
teresa		I don't know.
leland		That's right.
laura		 Dad...  Dad...  Who was that?  How do you know him?  He looked familiar.  Have I met him?
leland		No, you haven't met him.  Have you met him?
laura		No.
leland		We're late to get to your mother.
laura		Just sit here for a moment.  You seem very upset.
leland		 Guy just pulls up out of the blue...  I mean...  what is this world coming to?
teresa		What's wrong?
leland		 Nothing, I chickened out.
laura		Are you sure you're okay?
leland		Yes.
laura		Dad?
leland		Yes.
laura		Did you come home during the day last week?
leland		No.
laura		Oh, I thought I saw you.
leland		You know, I did come home, come to think of it, on Thursday.  I had a severe headache and I was driving in the neighborhood so I just darted in and out of the house.  Where were you, Laura?  I didn't see you?
laura		I was down the street.
jacques		Hey, Teresa...  what?
teresa's voice		What does Ronette's father look like?
jacques		A short guy...  heavy set...  balding...
teresa's voice		What does Laura Palmer's father look like?
jacques		Very handsome...  wavy black hair.  He looks like a movie star.
teresa		 No, this was a big huge guy.  Six four... Nose broken...  like he was a boxer.
leland		Hello?
teresa's voice		Hey Handsome, this is your little party girl.
sarah		 Where were you two?
teresa		The guy split.
laura		 The same ring...
bob's voice		That's not important.  I will tell you what is important.  The fan will soon be starting.
laura		Who are you?  Who are you REALLY?
leland		 Don't forget:  It's Johnny Horne's birthday today.
laura		I'm nearly out.
bobby		It's taken care of, babe.  You and I are going to make a big score tonight.  This will tide you over.
laura		Thank you, Bobby.  A big score?
bobby		Maybe our biggest.  I'll see you two
laura		Don't be late.
james		I've got to see you.
laura		Not now.
james		This afternoon?
laura		Okay.  Oh god, it's Johnny Horne's birthday today.
james		What about tonight?
laura		I can't tonight.
james		What's going on?
laura		 I just can't, James.  I can't do it.
johnny		Happy Birthday, Johnny.
leland		Happy Birthday, Johnny.
johnny		Happy Birthday, Johnny.
jerry		Happy Birthday, Johnny.
ben		Why did we have to have the party here in my office?
sylvia		Because Johnny wants it in your office. What's so "private" "private" about your office, anyway?  Why can't we have the party in your precious office?
jerry		It's a lovely place for a party, Ben.  And look at the new decorations Johnny's provided.
johnny		Happy Birthday, Johnny.
leland		 Don't you have a picture of Audrey, Ben?
sylvia		Don't you have a picture of your own daughter, Ben?  Where's Johnny's picture?  And where's _my_ picture I gave you?
ben		At the photographer's studio getting a gold frame with floral monograms of your birthday and our wedding vows.
johnny		Happy Birthday, Johnny.
ben		 Happy Birthday, Johnny.
jerry		Johnny, Johnny...  let your Daddy and your Uncle and Leland talk.  Ben...  Leland, we can play the French against the Norwegians.  What do the French love more than anything?
leland		 Boating?
jerry		No.
leland		Hiking?
jerry		No.
leland		Eating?
jerry		You'd think so.
leland		Sex?
jerry		You're getting warmer.
leland		Trees?
jerry		Exactment.  They are nuts about wood. They get goofy over trees.
sylvia		I've never heard anything like this before.  The French liking wood anymore than anyone else likes wood.  Are you three crazy?
leland		Sarah's cousin is French and she can't stop talking about the trees around here.
jerry		History is on our side, Ben.  It's no accident that the great explorers were named Hennepin, Nicollet, Marquette.
leland		They were looking for wood.
sylvia		 Oh...
hawk		Joey just called in.  Bernie, the mule, left Canada about an hour ago.
truman		Then stop watching Jacques and let's set a trap for Bernie.
andy		He's coming in on foot.
truman		That's right, Andy.  I guess you're saying there's an awful lot of trails for us to cover.
andy		No, I was thinking what a long hike Bernie has to make.
hawk		 I'll get on it.
laura		 I just wanted to say, "Hello".
ben		You missed the party.  Look at my office.  Come here.
laura		Sure, I'd do a lot more than that for it.
ben		Ssshhhh, your father's in the next office.  You should've seen him get upset at Johnny's party about your photo here.
laura		He's always been jealous of you.  You know that.
bobby		We got to wait till midnight.  But I got plenty here to make it.  And I got plenty of dough...  right here
ed		Hey, Pete.  Can't believe your tank's dry up at the mill.
pete		No...  hell, no.  Just got in the truck, started drivin', looked down at the gauge and saw a big "E" starin' at me.
ed		You know what that Big "E" stands for? Big Ed's Gas Farm.
pete		Yep.  You're right.  That's why I'm here.
ed		What'll it be?
pete		Fill 'er up.
ed		You got it.
pete		I haven't got it yet.
ed		Nice night.
pete		Yep... 
ed		 I did?  I didn't see anything.
pete		Yeah...  look in here.  Look at it from this angle.
ed		I see it.  The inside is your territory.
pete		 Even this heavy work beats being at home with the old ball and chain.
ed		Brother, I hear you talkin'.
laura		 Bobby, I found a leaf.
bobby		Here he comes.
laura		Here he comes.
bobby		 Who sent you?
cliff		Jacques.
laura		That's right.
bobby		I shot him.  Oh, my god, I shot him.
laura		Look at your face.
bobby		This isn't Mike.  Is this Mike?
laura		Bobby...  ssshhhh...  you killed Mike.
bob's voice		I want to kill thru you.
laura		 No.
bob's voice		I want you to kill _for_me_.
laura		No.  Never.  You'll have to kill me.
bob's voice		I want you to kill _for_me_.
bobby		Babe, I'm on my way out to the woods to divvy up the product.  Put this cash in your safety deposit box...  It's ten thousand dollars.
laura		 You killed Mike.
bobby		I'm not going to give you this if you don't stop laughing.  It's not one god damn bit funny.
bobby		 LAXATIVE!
jacoby		Laura, you didn't come and see me today.
laura		 I couldn't it was Johnny Horne's birthday.  I promised I'd be with him.  I told you not to call me here.
jacoby		A little trouble with your parents is the least of your worries and something I am certainly willing to put up with.
laura		I'm not.
jacoby		Did you make me a tape?
laura		I already made you two tapes.
jacoby		Laura, you have to deal with _all_ of this.
laura		I'm dealing with it, Doc.  Big time. Maybe I'll make you a tape tomorrow. Goodnight.
jacoby		Send me a kiss.
leland		Laura, I would like to talk to you.  Is something wrong?
leland		Laura.  What's wrong this morning?
laura		 Stay away from me.
laura		I hate asparagus.
sarah		Sure you do, it's good for you.
laura		Where's Dad?
sarah		Ben asked him to stay late to plan for the Norwegians.
laura		If it's okay with you I'm going to Bobby's to do my homework.
sarah		It's a school night...  back by nine.
laura		Hi, Mrs. Briggs...
betty		Hi, Laura, Bobby's in the basement.
laura		Right where he belongs, right.
laura		 What's up, Bobby?
bobby		Bad news, kid, it was baby laxative.
laura		What was?
bobby		The stuff we got last night.
laura		Baby laxative?  We can't snort baby laxative.
bobby		No shit...  We killed a guy for baby laxative.
laura		What is the world coming to when you kill a guy for baby laxative?
bobby		Don't get funny with me again.
laura		I'm not...  Bobby I'm gonna need some more stuff.  I mean it.  I'm out.
bobby		Yeah, and I'm gonna need that ten thousand dollars back.
laura		Sure, but I can't get it till after school tomorrow.
bobby		Let's ditch this place and party.
laura		Not tonight.  Just give me something to take home to hold me over till tomorrow.
bobby		Why?  Why not?  Where are you goin'?
laura		Bobby, I'm goin' home.  To bed...  my nice warm bed...
bobby		 We can do it right here.
laura		 Bobby...
bobby		You don't want me.  You just want the stuff, don't ya?
laura		 And my little round friends, too.
briggs		 Robert, put out the cigarette.
lucy		 Sheriff Truman?
truman		Yes, Lucy?
lucy		 Mrs. Packard called and said she heard what she thinks could be a prowler outside her house.
truman		Okay, Lucy.  I better get on up there.
lucy's voice		It's probably raccoons which is what it was last week...
truman		 You stay here and monitor the radio.  Let me know right away, if you hear from Hawk.
lucy's voice		And last week I thought of the same
andy		Okay, Sheriff Truman.
lucy's voice		Raccoons remind me of my aunt who lives in Wyoming where they have raccoons, too.
lucy		Maybe I'm alone.  Andy...  where did Andy go?
laura		Good night, Mom.
sarah		Good night, sweetheart.
laura		 James...  Yes, okay...  No, James, I do love you, but...  Okay, I'll meet you in fifteen minutes...
laura		 Go inside...  go inside...
james		What the hell is wrong with you?
laura		That's right.  There's no place left to go is there, James?
james		What do you mean?
laura		You know it and I know it.
james		What is wrong with us?...  We have everything.
laura		Everything, but everything.
james		Oh, Laura.
laura		 "Oh, Laura..."
james		 You always hurt the ones you love.
laura		You mean the ones you pity.
james		Say anything you want...  I know you love me and I love you.
laura		I do love you.  Let's get lost together.
james		What?
laura		When he finds out.
james		What?
laura		Bobby killed a guy.
james		What are you talking about?  Bobby didn't kill anybody.
laura		You want to see...
james		See what?
laura		 Right.  Open your eyes, James.  You don't know me.  Even _Donna_ doesn't know me. Your Laura disappeared...  It's just me now.
laura		The trees...  the trees...
james		 Laura...
laura		 JAMES, I LOVE YOU.
jacques		Right on time, baby.
laura		Buy me a ticket to The Great Went.
jacques		We're on our way, Baby.
laura		Let's go _all_ the way.
laura		 Don't tie me up, tonight.  Don't tie me up.
leo		Bite the bullet, baby.
leo		 Let me have a little of that.
jacques		 Let me have a little of that, baby.
laura		 DADDY...  DADDY...
gerard		Bob, I can hear you singing.
laura		 Are you going to kill me?
leland		DON'T MAKE ME DO IT.
laura		NO, YOU HAVE TO KILL ME.
leland		I always thought you knew it was me.
laura		 KILL ME.
gerard		LET ME IN.  LET ME IN.
nurse		What happened?
medic		I don't know.  Sheriff Truman just brought her in from Glastonbury Grove.
cooper		 Where is the ring?
cooper		That would indicate that it's the future.
cooper		Where am I?  And how can I leave?
annie		My name is Annie.  I've been with Laura and Dale.  The good Dale is in the lodge and he can't leave.  Write it in your diary.
truman		Coop...  Coop...
doc		Cooper are you alright?
cooper		 It struck me as funny, Harry.  Do you understand me, Harry, it struck me as funny.
doc		You are going right back to bed.
cooper		But I haven't brushed my teeth yet.
****Dialogues from script :Twins.txt****

revisions by		 Timothy Harris & Hershel Weingrod  and William Goldman
twins		FADE IN:
werner		 He was sent to an orphanage in Los Angeles. At the same time I brought you here to the island. Julius isn't listening.    His eyes shine.
julius		 I have to find him!
julius		 It was an honor to study under you, Master. Without warning, the Oriental tries to strike Julius in the face with the side of his hand, but Julius blocks the blow.
oriental		 Ahhh, always on guard. You have learned well, Julius-san. Julius gives a last hug to Werner.
julius		 I was just thinking, maybe my brother Vincent is married.
julius		Well, if a woman loved my brother enough to marry him, she might have a sister who'd feel the same way about me. That often  happens with twins, you know. WERNER Julius -- please -- don't get your hopes up. Your brother doesn't even know you exist.
vince		Me, too. I love this new mattress. It's soft but it's hard at the same time. And I love this new clock.
vince		The curtains are the key to the whole thing. They're colorful... they're brilliant... they're... great curtains. CARLA  I think we're going to be very happy here. Suddenly we hear a DOOR downstairs as it OPENS, and a man's voice drifts up the stairs:
vince		 What's he doing back so early?
carla		Be right down, sweetheart! Vince checks his appearance in a dresser mirror, straightens his Armani suit, brushes his hair, pulls it into a fashionable ponytail. He cuts a stylish figure. Noticing an expensive gold lighter on the dresser top, he covertly pockets it.
vince		You're wonderful, Carla. Your husband doesn't deserve to kiss your feet.
vince		 ... 'everything's going my way'... CUT TO:
al		Carla and I figured, since you were always admiring mine, what the hell...
vince		A lighter, just like yours.   I don't know what to say, Al.   I'm all choked up.
vince		A very special stock -- and it was such a sure thing -- I borrowed another 20 grand from the Klane                      * Brothers. CARLA  You borrowed from a loan shark to invest in the stock market? VINCE On margin -- And as of last night I was ten thousand ahead. I'm                        * going to make a fortune -- turn on the T.V. CUT TO:
al		You are having one shitty birthday, Vince.
carla		Don't you think you're doing this too often?
vince		I'm a desperate man.                                    *
al		Level three.   Stall 25. CUT TO:
owner		We're in a recession -- Everything's tough -- you want to try someone else -- no hard feelings. VINCE  Forget it. OWNER You okay, Vince? You seem a little worried.
vince		Me? I laugh myself to sleep every night, and I never sleep alone. I'm doing great! The Owner smiles and turns. Vince continues counting the money, nervous as hell. Now -- CUT TO:
julius		seated in the rear, still in his peasant garb, the bamboo suitcase resting on his lap. He has his headphones on and is singing along to the music, his eyes closed and his head bobbing. JULIUS  'I better wear some boxing gloves, In case some fool might want to fight.'
julius		 Sorry -- I've never heard this music before -- I love it.                             * She sighs, leans over him, fastens his seat belt, while Julius gazes down at her ample cleavage.
stewardess		The captain wants us to buckle our seat belts because we're expecting a little turbulence.
julius		Actually, I'm a horticultural botanist, a mathematician, and a philosopher.
stewardess		Right.    And I'm a brain surgeon.
julius		turns to the terrified elderly woman beside him who's clutching a hardcover Bible in her lap. JULIUS  Excuse me, ma'am.
hand		retrieving the hardcover Bible from the floor and --
bartender		It's him.    He's back.
linda		Like what? MARNIE Linda!
vince		I got involved in the stock market. LINDA  I promised Marnie I wouldn't give you money. Vince takes Linda's hand between his and stares into her eyes. LINDA Don't look at me like that... Don't do that with your eyes... I shouldn't even be here with you.
vince		 That is so beautiful. How do you make up that stuff? You're such a poet.
linda		 You gotta be more specific, considering our clientele.
burt klane		Benedict.
linda		 He wouldn't show his face around here. Right, Marnie? * She looks down at -- * VINCE
burt klane		 Okay -- enough. CUT TO:
vince		The rest is invested.     We're gonna make a fortune.
linda		I hope this helps -- Please don't hurt him.
burt klane		There you go --  -- Another thousand -- Okay -- This nice lady just bought you a day Vince -- I want it all -- Twenty- thousand -- this time tomorrow.                        *
vince		Twenty -- ?   But I just paid -- Just as he opens his mouth, Vince is elbowed again. BURT KLANE That's just the interest.    The                       * twenty's the principal.                                *
julius		 ... How wonderful...
julius		I... don't have a girl friend. Do women really wear these things? BIKER #1 If you're lucky. 
case handle		Julius's hand holds fast to it.    Then -- CUT TO:
julius		just sort of standing there, no big deal, not much effort showing on his face as Biker #2 begins to slowly rise into the air as he and his cycle are about to be parted and then --
riderless cycle		ending its trip as it collides with a storefront and collapses on its side, MOTOR still ROARING but no movement anymore and -- CUT TO:
julius		I did nothing, the pavement was his enemy. CUT TO:
julius		I would say -- a concussion -- a mild shoulder separation, and ribs four to seven are cracked.
cop		Your vehicle's in a handicapped zone. Vince immediately hunches his shoulder and affects a limp. VINCE So?    Do I look normal to you?
cop		You don't have a 'handicapped' sticker on your windshield.  Driver's license, please. CUT TO:
cop		You've got over 200 outstanding parking tickets, Mr. Benedict. And you just had your birthday? Well, your driver's license just expired -- Happy birthday.                               * 
mother superior		How did you know?
julius		It's the one I would have chosen. It's next to the fire extinguisher. In case of a fire, I could have given the alarm, and saved the other orphans. MOTHER SUPERIOR We've only had one fire at St. Charlotte's. Vince Benedict started it, we like to think by accident.
julius		Tell me about him. Was he a good athlete? Did he like chess and poetry?
julius		This is him?   He looks happy --                        * MOTHER SUPERIOR  He should -- that's Sister Maria,                       * his biology teacher.
julius		I always liked biology. MOTHER SUPERIOR So did Vincent. He disgraced Sister Maria, who had to leave the order. Then he stole all the money from our library fund and ran away.
julius		But I have to find him.   Where do you think he might be?
mother superior		Jail. A man of his character could only be in jail. You're full of goodness, Julius -- I pray that you never find him.
vince		 World International Athletics                           * Representation. Vincent Benedict -- President. I coulda got you a no-cut contract so you wouldn't have to heist T.V. sets for a living --
guard		leading an attractive, powerful inmate into the room. The guy is Julius's age. CUT TO:
julius		trying to fight his excitement, watching as the prisoner moves toward him -- -- then past him.
julius		 Vincent... CUT TO:
vince		listening, somewhat amazed.    Who is this loony?
vince		 Huh?    Again? JULIUS I don't know any Klane Brothers.
vince		 Yeah.   Go on -- I got that part.
julius		My name is Julius -- I'm your twin brother.
vince		 Obviously -- the minute I sat down I felt like I was looking in a mirror. JULIUS We're not identical twins.
vince		I wouldn't be too sure. 
vince		 Listen, you get me outta here, I'll be whatever you want, best friend, brother, nephew, niece, grandma...
julius		I have some more money -- VINCE You do?
julius		I am happy to help you, Vincent. You're my brother. I love you.
vince		Julius -- look -- ease up on the love talk or I'm gonna be tossing my cookies, all right? JULIUS Tossing cookies, that is more slang? VINCE Just gimme your wallet, okay? As Julius sweetly hands it over --
vince		No, you don't.
julius		You're thinking that this whole twin business is what you call 'bullshit.'
vince		Actually, I was thinking I'm going to need some more money -- to put gas in my car --
julius		You can take some more money -- VINCE I can? JULIUS Sure...
vince		We're brothers -- right? Julius tries to drape an arm around Vince's shoulder. Vince gives him a look. Julius drops his arm. TIME CUT TO:
vince		They arrest you, they put you                             * behind bars, they fine you and                            * then they hide your car.                                  *
julius		That's --  -- your car, isn't it? CUT TO:
vince's mustang		Which is what Julius is pointing at.
vince		Yeah --   How'd you know that was my car.
julius		We're twins! 
julius		 I'm so excited -- we'll go to museums together, discuss philosophy together, read books together -- play chess together -- VINCE -- Get lost together -- And on that, he GUNS his CAR the hell away, leaving Julius standing there.
julius		Deserted, alone in the sea of cars.
al		You guys must be going to Hawaii, huh? Catch that good surf.
garfield		Something like that. The two men just stare straight ahead, uninterested in conversation. Al hands the driver a ticket.
al		There's plenty of space on level four. The Cadillac accelerates up the ramp.
outside cadillac		as the men get out, lock the car, wipe off the door handles, and then head for the elevator.
cut to:		A60   EXT. HOLLYWOOD OFFICE BUILDING - ESTABLISHING - DAY             A60
mover		Taking back the furniture -- you're six months behind.
miss busby		I tried to stop them, Mr. Benedict -- VINCE It was time to redecorate anyway. The PHONE RINGS -- Miss Busby drops to her knees beside it. MISS BUSBY  It's Al. As she hands him the phone.
vince		I hope you got some good news,                         * Al --                                                  *
morris klane		Time's up, Vincent -- Got the money?
vince		In agony, on his knees. It hurts to breath.       He finally manages to look up at the giant --
vince		 Did you hit me yet? 'Cause I didn't feel nothin'.
morris klane		He grabs Vince again.
morris klane		You gotta understand something, Benedict -- I like my work. He pulls  Vince groggily up and this time he's going for Vince's  face. He takes his time setting Vince up, getting  his chin at just the right angle. He's concen- trating  on his work, so he doesn't pay much attention to the fact  that the elevator door has opened behind.
julius		 These are most unfriendly acts you are committing.
morris klane		Who are you? JULIUS Vincent's brother. VINCE  We're twins.
morris klane		You're firewood. 
julius		-- And I have no respect for those with no respect for logic. You're a very stupid person.
cut to:		VINCE Watching as Julius picks up Klane with both hands and lifts him a foot up into the air, holding him there for a pause.
elevator door		 slides open and... CUT TO:
julius		As he heaves Klane across the corridor into the open elevator Klane crashes down hard just as the door slides shut and... CUT TO:
julius		How much money do you owe? Don't lie -- we're twins, I can feel your pain.
vince		 Why do you keep saying that? We're not twins, we're not brothers, we're nothing, and you're only in this car because I could use a little protection these days --
vince		I don't know where my head is -- I forgot I promised this friend of mine -- Sammy -- I'd pick up his car at the airport -- do me a big favor, okay? Drive this car back from the airport for me. JULIUS I'd love to. Julius reaches into the glove compartment, takes out the car manual, begins speed reading it, running his index finger down the center of each page. VINCE What are you doing with that finger? JULIUS Learning to drive. Vince isn't sure what's going on at this point. Now Julius studies Vince's shifting moves, the way his hands work the steering wheel. Now he's back to the manual. Now he's staring at Vince. Vince and Julius's heads are both in motion now -- Julius's from the book to the wheel, Vince's from the road to Julius's finger. As their heads keep turning -- CUT TO:
julius		What's the matter?
vince		That dopey Sam -- He did it again. Forgot to leave the keys... A lot of handicapped kids are gonna be really disappointed...
julius		 Handicapped children?
julius		Maybe we should try to open it ourselves... Vince raises his eyebrows in mock surprise.
vince		You think we should do a thing like that?
julius		Of course -- it's for the children... CUT TO:
vince		As he takes a breath, opens the door, scoots inside --
julius		The brakes worked just fine! VINCE Lemme tell you something about America, Julius -- nobody likes a smart-ass.
linda		There's only one Vince Benedict. He's a force of nature.
linda		I know that -- Geez, you don't think I know that -- ?  Excuse me. She reaches past Julius to take a copy of Cosmopolitan. Julius drops the Playboy, which falls open on the ground, with the centerfold revealed. Flustered and blushing, he bends down to retrieve it, watched by Marnie, who can't take her eyes off the sheer beauty of his physique.
julius		You all know each other? VINCE Julius, meet Linda and...  Her charming sister, Marnie.
julius		 Twins? CUT TO:
vince		 Goodbye girls, see you soon.
julius		 Like maybe tomorrow.
julius		Linda is your girl friend, isn't she?
vince		Yeah.   Kind of. JULIUS Is Marnie your girl friend, too? VINCE Marnie! Marnie hates my guts. She seemed to like you.
julius		 She hardly knows me. A beat.
vince		That's the best way --   women love men who are mysterious   and devious. It keeps them on their   toes -- makes them excited you   know what I mean? JULIUS No.
vince		You do like women, don't you?
vince		 He's a 230-pound virgin.                              *
parking spot		It's definitely empty. CUT TO:
webster		He looks at the Cadillac key.    Clearly, he is not happy at the turn of events. CUT BACK TO:
julius		He won the Nobel Prize.
julius		I think it's important we try to find our fathers. VINCE You mean, all those geniuses who contributed to the... 
julius		Dear Sister Anderson, your request for orphans benefits for Vincent Benedict has been denied. According to our files his mother did not die during birth. We have a current address for her at 172 Canyon Glen Drive, Los Angeles. Vincent's case seems to be one of simple abandonment and as such he is inelligible for aid. Vince snatches the paper back.    Julius stares at him, just stunned. VINCE That's right, Julius, she abandoned me. JULIUS This letter was written thirty                      * years ago. We were five years old                   * -- Our mother... didn't die when we were born...  I don't know about your momma, Miss Perfect of 1952, but my momma was a slut, and if she's still alive, I hope she's in a lot of pain. She dumped me once -- no way she gonna get a chance to do it again --
julius		Vincent, if they lied to us about Momma for all these years, maybe they lied to her, too. We must find her, we must check this address.                                            * 
vince		Julius -- slow down -- I've got no time for this. You go hunt down                       * Mom, I've got a cash flow problem                     * to deal with.
garfield		The tests on the lower temperature gaskets look great.
larson		Looks like an easy weekend.
garfield		on the sound of the name.      He looks at Larson.   A beat.        * LARSON  Christ, man, you were never                            * supposed to come here.
garfield		 The deal was we were never supposed to meet. You're supposed to be...
webster		Driving that Cadillac to Texas?  Got my driving gloves, got my driving glasses, got my hat... but no car.
garfield		This is bullshit! The car was there. LARSEN That's right. The parking attendant thought we were off for Hawaii.
webster		 The parking attendant? GARFIELD He liked the car. We'd put on those damn loud shirts so we'd look like tourists -- LARSEN He asked us if we were going surfing. He was a jerk.
julius		She was my mother. Granger looks at the photo, then at Julius. GRANGER You're Mary Anne's son? GIRL  Isn't that you, Grandpa?
granger		They told your mother that you died at birth...
granger		I guess you could say I'm your father...
julius		One of my fathers -- GRANGER  The times I've wondered what would have happened if I'd married her... JULIUS Why didn't you?
granger		She turned me down. Said she was afraid to have children. She took it real hard when they told her you died. She even stopped painting. Did you know she painted? JULIUS Until yesterday I didn't even know she might still be alive... Who told her we died?
granger		'We'? JULIUS I have a twin brother, Vincent. GRANGER There's two of you? She never                            * knew that, either.
granger		Mitchell Traven. He supervised the experiment for the government. 
julius		I'll go see him. GRANGER Watch out for him -- he's kind of a dickhead, if you know what I mean. JULIUS No, I don't -- but I'm learning.
vince		 Okay -- Six thousand -- that's as high as I'm going... CUT TO:
vince		I guess twenty seems a little high to you. I'm a reasonable guy -- I'll take fifteen -- McKINLEY  Listen to me, you poor excuse for a warmed over turd, a deal's a deal -- VINCE -- But -- CUT TO:
vince		 Beetroot?
al		All three years.
carla		 And you never told me until there was a stranger listening? Shit, what about my reputation? WEBSTER Where can I find Mister Benedict?
al		I'm not saying. WEBSTER Let me get this right -- You're protecting the weasel who's been                        * screwing your wife for the past three years. AL He's my friend.
webster		Well, I guess I'll have to beat it out of you --
carla		Stop -- I'll tell -- He lives at 1622 Westridge Place -- He's got an office at the corner of Highland and Hollywood.
carla		I always loved you, Al. 
webster		 No one's gonna believe this one.
vince		You scared the living shit out of me -- JULIUS I met one of our fathers. He told me of a man in New Mexico who probably knows where Momma is. 
julius		She didn't abandon you -- she didn't even know you were born! VINCE  Awww -- that's terrible. Vince removes Julius's hands, slides him away from the door, and opens it.
julius		And she was told that I died! VINCE Look, Julius, I'm in kind   of a hurry. Sammy wants me to    take the car to Houston. Much    bigger bucks when you raffle for   charity in Houston. Julius takes the map from Vince, looks at it.
julius		 -- New Mexico is on the way to Houston.
vince		 A lot of places are on the way to Houston. I'll be back in a few days. Stay in my apartment. Run up my phone bill. Throw wild parties. Take advantage of me.
julius		Vincent, we have to go see this man Traven in New Mexico! VINCE No we don't.
vince		You know -- you're right. This is fate -- destiny -- But there's no way I'm gonna drive for 1500 miles with you smelling like that --
julius		 You're right -- I'll take a shower -- be right back --
linda		You were going somewhere -- you weren't even going to say goodbye --
vince		I got something in here --  A fortune! That's great!
neighbor		Never sleep with that man. Never loan him money. And never believe a word he tells you -- that's free advice. She slams the door shut.
linda		Vince...? VINCE 
linda		I am because if you say 'no' one more time --  Okay, okay. Just don't let on to Julius. He thinks we're going to look up our ancestors, like in 'Roots' or something.
marnie		                                     * I heard you singing -- I baked some cookies for you.
marnie		Oh -- don't mind me. She turns her back to him.
linda		throws open the door, with a big smile on her face. LINDA Guess what? Vince just invited us all to go to New Mexico and Texas. Vince comes in behind Linda, trying to conceal his exasperation.
julius		That's a great idea, Vince.
cut to:		112    OMITTED                                                         112 thru                                                                   thru A114                                                                   A114
webster		 Your owner seems to be a very popular fellow these days.
webster		Howdy.
burt klane		Who are you? WEBSTER It's not really important, is it? I wanted to feed the cat before I left. Webster starts for the door. Morris  blocks the doorway, cutting Webster off. BURT KLANE I asked you a question.
bob		 We're the Klane brothers. That's Burt and Morris -- I'm Bob. WEBSTER Interesting genetic pool. You're looking for Vince Benedict, right? The brothers all nod.
webster		Am I Vince Benedict? Morris stares hard at him, shakes his head.
webster		So what's the difference who I am? 
webster		 It could be contagious.
marnie		I really hope so.
vince		This ought to fit you. Julius removes the shirt he borrowed from Vince, who pretends to be horrified at the sight of Julius's huge muscles. VINCE Whoa -- get away from that window! There's women and children out there!  What is wrong with you?
julius		What? VINCE You allergic to something? JULIUS No.   Why? VINCE What are those bumps doing all over your body? You're all swelled up. You look like you're about to explode. 
marnie		Good luck.                                               *
marnie		See you later.
julius		 That's not necessary. I always sleep on the floor. Vince looks askance at Julius, then pulls the car away. HOLD ON Linda and Marnie, gazing curiously after them. CUT TO:
julius		He's lying!
vince		Keep your voice down. This place is crawling with security --                              *
julius		For the first time in my life, I am --  -- pissed off!
julius		I'm going to make him tell us the truth...
vince		No... CUT TO:
vince		... How did you know my name? 
laboratory door		Chained and padlocked.      Traven unlocks it, pulls off the chains.
julius		 approaches a delivery table, touches it gently, looks back at Traven. TRAVEN You came out first, of course...  We weren't expecting him.
vince		gazes at the "blender" we saw Traven demonstrating in
julius		He's wrong.
vince		You tellin' me I'm a side effect!?!
julius		 Tell us where our mother is...                         * dickhead!
traven		 I'll be back. Julius tosses him aside.
vince		 So how come if we're the same, we're so damn different.                             * JULIUS We had six fathers, Vince. We're different parts of a lot of different people. Vince is starting to get interested again. VINCE Yeah? JULIUS And remember, I was taken to a beautiful island, protected, educated, loved, given every opportunity to grow, to dream, to create. But you had none of that.
julius		You had nobody. Nobody to love you, nobody to trust you, nobody to encourage you. All life taught you was that the only person you could count on was yourself. Tears begin to well up in Vince's eyes.
vince		A family?   You really think so?
vince		With like Thanksgiving dinner? And Christmas trees...
julius		... and a real home where you'll always be welcome. VINCE Always? JULIUS Even when you've been bad.
julius		Do I look okay? VINCE You look better, put it that way. We got to do something about the way you walk. You're moving a tad stiff, Jules. Ever see                         * Frankenstein? JULIUS I read the book. VINCE That's not gonna help. You got to walk like you're moving in time to music. I'm not talking about military marches now, I mean Aretha Franklin, Otis Redding, Wilson Pickett, Archie Bell and the Drells and a couple of white                   * guys.                                              *
vince		Like this... You just got to try to be cool, you know? Try these on.
julius		 We know where to find our momma! VINCE Everything Julius said was true. I'm the product of geniuses! LINDA I always knew that.
vince		Of course, but it's nice to make it official. * JULIUS                                      * Tommorrow we're going to finally meet our mother. VINCE                                       * And tonight we celebrate!
vince		Talk to her, buy her some drinks, dance with her. Girls like to dance.
vince		I guess you haven't done that before either.
vince		Well -- forget all that disco shit, everyone's seen it. When I really want to romance a girl, I waltz with her.
julius		You dance with them?                                     *
vince		It turns them to putty in your hands.
vince		He shoves a chair out of the way, making a little room. VINCE Okay, come here, put your feet by my feet -- JULIUS  Well, you've learned to waltz. Now it's time to introduce you to the wonderful world of getting shit-faced. CUT TO:
marnie		Er... no...
julius		Actually it was invented by the Assyrians, but the Eygptians were the first people to perfect the malt fermentation process. LINDA You sure know a lot about beer.
marnie		He knows a lot about everything. Julius polishes off the bottle, belches.
vince		Well, we're going to change all that -- aren't we, Marnie? Julius, embarrassed, looks over at Marnie, who's smiling sweetly at him. JULIUS Can I ask you a question?
marnie		Anything... JULIUS Am I shit-faced yet? Linda, surprised, does a spit-take with her beer.
marnie		 You're getting there. Vince gets to his feet. VINCE Please excuse me -- my back teeth are floating.
julius		I better see if mine are, too. Julius takes off after Vince.
julius		You do that too, huh? 
julius		I don't think she really likes me.
vince		Piece of cake. You're nervous 'cause it's your first time. Perfectly natural.
julius		Were you nervous? VINCE I was twelve and she was a nun -- that's real pressure. They both finish at the urinals and begin washing at the sink. VINCE I got to admit it, Jules -- since I met you, life is getting better all the time. Julius, a little smashed, can't hide his feelings.    He grips Vince by the shoulders.
julius		For me, too, Vince! Sometimes I'm so happy, I want to pick you up and hug you! Julius starts to do so, just as another man enters.
vince		Hey, cut it out! Not in here! Julius releases Vince, who clocks the other man's reaction.
vince		 Go easy on the beer, okay?
beetroot		 God, I love a professional...
linda		 Let's go to the ladies' room. MARNIE But we just went. Linda takes Marnie by the hand, just as --
burt klane		This has gone way past a simple case of loan deliquency. BOB KLANE We don't like getting shot.                                *
vince		What are you talking about?    We didn't shoot anybody. 
julius		What do you want?
burt klane		We want to take Vince out to the parking lot and kill him. A long beat.
vince		That's kind of drastic, don't you think?
julius		You moved too soon... BURT KLANE What? JULIUS The second rule in a crisis situation:
morris klane		 He's starting that funny talk again...
burt klane		Meet my cousins.  Get these jerks outside.
julius		Quite a few. They were formulated by a Kendo swordsman in the 17th century, but their philosophical underpinnings can be applied to many other areas of life. VINCE I bet.
marnie		Hi -- Vince and Linda want to be                        * alone, so I'm afraid I'm going to stay here. Which bed should I take? JULIUS  Either... I always sleep on the floor.
julius		Good night.
marnie		This mattress is just as bad as the other one.
julius		Good night.
julius		Are you cold?
marnie		It's alright. JULIUS No, please, take my shirt.      I'm               * baking. Julius strips it off and hands it to her. She puts it on and pulls the blanket over her shoulder. Again she shivers. JULIUS You still cold?
marnie		Just my legs.
marnie		 Thanks.
julius		Anything else? MARNIE I'd love a glass of water.
julius		 Right.
marnie		Do you mind if I share your blanket? -- Mine's all wet.
julius		 No -- that would be okay. They both lie down under his blanket.      Silence... MARNIE Could we switch sides?   I like to sleep on the left. JULIUS Sure. She starts to roll over Julius, then pauses directly above him and looks him dead in the eye. MARNIE Can I ask you something for a change? JULIUS Anything.
marnie		Do you like me? I mean, even a little bit?
julius		I... I'm crazy about you, Marnie. But there's something about me you ought to know.
vince		Hey -- I sleep great every night --  I couldn't do this without you, Linda.
linda		I know. That's why, when we get back, I think we should move in together. VINCE  I just want to live with    you.
vince		I'm no good at playing house -- I'm grouchy in the morning, cranky in the afternoon, moody at night -- 
vince		Why don't we sleep on this, okay? I mean, I've got a big day tomorrow.  It's gonna be great -- taking my best girl to meet my mom.
linda		Am I really your best girl? VINCE There's nobody else, Linda, not anymore. LINDA There better not be, because...  'I only have eyes for you...' They kiss.
julius		I think I would have remembered...
vince		Good idea. One bunch from me, one from Jules.
marnie		And one from us -- Julius smiles happily at Vince's thoughtfulness.
julius		 You mustn't always think of money.
vince		 You got me wrong -- I'm just saying it's nice Mom's loaded -- that's a worry she won't have to have in her old age. Julius smiles at Vince and rings the bell. A MALE CUSTODIAN answers the door -- friendly but very firm.
custodian		Can I help you? 
linda		Introduce yourselves.                                   * As they take a step in the direction of the painter. WOMAN  Hey!
vince		Please don't do that -- look -- this isn't one of your average everyday situations -- she's our mother is the thing.
julius		We're her sons.
vince		Twin sons. GARDENER -- You're comedians -- VINCE We're kind of a surprise.
gardener		 I'll bet you are -- follow me.
julius		 -- It is her --
vince		-- Is Mary Ann?
gardener		No -- This is an artist's colony; there's a lot of painters. 
gardener		You can't really own something like that view over there, or that sunset, can you?
vince		 No, of course not.
julius		 I can't wait to meet her. GARDENER This way, please. The Gardener ushers them towards a door in the garden wall. She opens it, politely stands back, letting them go through it. They turn back to look at her. GARDENER Mary Anne Benedict never understood why people wanted to buy her paintings. But for a brief period they were considered valuable. She used the money to buy Whispering Pines so that young artists would have a place to work.
gardener		She never wanted to be famous. She just wanted to be left alone.
julius		May I ask you a question?  Why do you keep referring to her in the past tense? GARDENER Because she passed away, some time ago.
vince		 Can we get the hell out of here?
painter		What was that all about? GARDENER These real estate developers won't be happy until they turn this place into a golf course. PAINTER Now they're climbing over the walls? GARDENER They're shameless. They'll try anything.  Those men claimed to be my twin sons, if you can believe that. It was really quite disturbing. PAINTER Oh, Mary Anne, I am sorry...
vince		Do I look like a young artist to you, Linda? MARNIE  I know what she meant. And I know why she's here, too. It's got nothing to do with my mother and everything to do with money. LINDA You know that's not true.
vince		 Bull-shit. Julius, who's been quiet and distant throughout, suddenly intercedes. JULIUS Take it easy, Vincent.   It's not her fault. VINCE You hear that, everybody? The                          * creature from the black lagoon                         * just put in his two bits. I                            * should have my head examined for listening to you in the first place -- deal-of-a-lifetime opportunity and I'm driving around looking for a dead mother.
julius		 All I wanted was to make us into a family.
marnie		 He dumped us in the middle of New Mexico.
julius		We'll be fine. And maybe he'll be better off alone.
linda		You don't know -- he's got something worth maybe millions in that trunk -- he could get himself killed delivering it. JULIUS He's been getting out of trouble all his life, he's good at it. MARNIE He may need you.
julius		 Julius -- you're still very smart it's just you're not thinking so well right now -- on account of what you found out at Whispering Pines -- but you're not alone, you know -- I mean, you live long enough, everyone's mother dies...
vince		Okay, Beetroot -- It's time. I'll be there tomorrow -- where do we meet and trade?
julius		 Don't worry, Linda. I found him once, I'll find him again. MARNIE Be careful...                                              *
julius		He turns away. CUT TO: MARNIE watching.
vince		I thought we had a deal here.
bodyguard		 This is it. VINCE This is what?
beetroot		 What are you waiting for?
vince		Five million dollars --
bodyguard		 You wanna count it? VINCE I trust you.
webster		emerges from the shadows with a powerful pump action                * shotgun. He opens the Caddy and pushes the dead                     * Bodyguard off the horn. Beetroot has a hole in his head, as well.  Webster turns and gazes back toward Vince who is sprinting for safety. Webster calmly goes after him, reloading his rifle.
webster		FIRING at the sound. He can't see Vince but he pours his fire at the window Vince broke -- large chunks of the              * BUILDING EXPLODE off wherever Webster fires.                           *
webster		Pack it in, Vince, you're only wasting time -- I don't give a damn about you, just the money -- He's reloaded during this -- moving forward as we...
webster		moving in on the shattered window.     A bit irritated.
webster		Vince, if you don't cut this horseshit I may have to hurt you.
julius		 Leave my brother alone!
julius		I've got the money. WEBSTER  -- come on down. CUT TO:
vince		No way... this is bullshit...  Julius, you putz.
julius		I needed something to read on the airplane.
webster		 Yeah, well your flying days are over...
vince		hands held high, appears, stands beside Julius.
vince		I am never going to forgive you for this.
julius		You were going to get killed. I tried to distract him so you could escape.
vince		Because, thanks to you, I'm now not only a godamn psychic, I've got this disease called a conscience! JULIUS Nobody ever said being good was easy.
julius		 Who wants it first. JULIUS Shoot him.   This whole thing is his fault.
webster		Whatever you want.
julius		pulls a gun from his sleeve and blows Webster's weapon out of his hands. Webster screams in pain, clutching his hand, dancing around. VINCE  Ooooh -- you lied? JULIUS I had to. Vince beams with deep fraternal pride.       Then he turns to Webster and snatches the case back.
vince		Looks like you messed with the wrong people, wise guy.
webster		 But your luck just ran out. A stream of gas is pouring out of the drums that Webster punctured whilst he was shooting at Vince. It runs in a broad stream across the warehouse floor, right beneath Julius and Vince's feet. Webster is holding his cigarette out, ready to drop it in the fuel and incin- erate them.
webster		Drop the gun and give me back the case, or we're gonna have ourselves some barbecued Benedict. Julius drops the gun and Vince slowly hands back the case. Webster smiles and backs off down the stream of gas, still holding out the cigarette. He stops at the very edge of the building. WEBSTER Well, I guess this is goodbye. He raises the cigarette, ready to throw it. JULIUS Wait a minute. Webster looks up.
julius		You've forgotten something. Webster grips the case tighter.
webster		I don't think so.
julius		The third rule in a crisis situation.
julius		drapes his arm around Vince as they walk towards the unharmed attache case full of money. JULIUS You came back for me.
vince		Yeah, yeah, yeah. JULIUS I always knew you would. VINCE You're my brother, right?  We're a rich family, right?
julius		-- Including us -- think how much                       * better you'll feel when it's out of our lives --
vince		 -- I won't -- I won't feel one bit better -- I'll never feel better, not if I live to be... oh no --                         * As the sound of POLICE SIRENS get LOUDER we -- FADE TO BLACK.
painter		I think you'd better read this...
vince		Linda, I -- LINDA What the hell are you doing here? VINCE You wouldn't answer     my calls or my letters, so I...     Look, I made a terrible mistake     and I apologize and I want to tell     you that I'm a changed man. Linda is almost buying it, but then -- LINDA How did you get in here? VINCE Well, there was a window in the back that --
linda		 Typical. She walks past him, approaches her door, puts in the key. Vince follows, speaking softly, his sincerity absolutely genuine.
vince		All I ask is for another chance. I know I probably don't deserve it, but --
linda		You're right, you don't deserve it.
vince		I had to break into your apartment, but --
linda		Vince, they're beautiful. VINCE So, do you forgive me? Linda hesitates.
linda		Yes, but... VINCE But? Vince looks at her, understands. VINCE You mean, that matter we talked about once and never really resolved.
linda		 What matter is that?
vince		The matter of you and me living together.
linda		 What about it?
vince		Your place or mine?
vince		Just as long as they pay -- we're not running a charity, you know.
vince		Come in!
julius		Watching them. Now there are tears on his face, too. He goes to them, gently puts his arms around them, lifts them both up in to the air, cradling them. They're laughing.   They're crying.   They're holding each other.
julius		They kepp you up all night again, too? 
julius		 What a surprise -- so do you.
vince		Now that's a scary thought. They both yawn simultaneously once again.
****Dialogues from script :Two_For_The_Money.txt****

brandon voiceover		I would've stood there all day to sink one.  Just to see that smile...
brandon voiceover		To pop, sports were a religion.  To me, it was about purity, a place where all wrongs could be made right, or at least temporarily forgotten.  I was going to fill the whole house with trophies for him.  There was no doubt in my mind, I was going to make him happy...
brandon		Last play.  Slant red, right back on two.  On two, Scottie. It's a lock.  A guaranteed TD.  I've already seen it.  So relax. There's nothing to worry about 'cept one thing -- after we win and they're shoving cameras in your faces, I don't want to hear any "Hi moms."  Guys, it's overdone, the fans are tired of it and if you have to thank some one you can just thank me.  See you in the end zone.
brandon voiceover		I'd been a quarterback since pee-wee football.  Set high school records.  Won state championships.  I wasn't driven by joy, it wasn't winning as much as terror, pure and simple -- fear of losing.
tv announcers		South West Nevada needs a score.  Seven seconds on the clock. 22 yard line.  Win or lose, this has been a spectacular season for Lang.  The big question, should he turn pro now or wait until -- Lang's got the snap--
brandon voiceover		... My first thought was I can tape it and play next week.  Then I puked.
brandon		What's the rehab time?
brandon		When do I play again?
brandon		The patient's got a question!
surgeon voiceover		Football's done, son...
man's voice		Brandon... Brandon, it's me.  BRANDON opens his eyes, focuses on his FATHER .
brandon's dad		You okay?  I saw what happened on the tv.  Helluva thing that happening like that.
brandon's dad		I brought some flowers.  From downstairs in the shop.
brandon's dad		I'm thinking of getting into a new program, Brandon.
brandon		Could you get him out, please?
brandon's dad		It's okay, we're fine, I'm his father.
brandon		Just get out!
brandon's dad		  He didn't recognize me.  Must be all the drugs and all.  Boy's been through a lot.
brandon voiceover		It doesn't rain much in the desert.  Maybe it was that, or maybe the look on my mother's face, or how fast coach left after getting me up the steps, but I swore then and there -- no matter what, I'd get back -- I would play again...
omit		 EXT. SOUTH WEST NEVADA UNIVERSITY TRACK - DAY
brandon voiceover		Doc told me it would take years to heal.  One bad hit and it'd be over.  But the team needed me and I had to play to get drafted. I figured I'd take a chance...
brandon voiceover		Every minute of recovery I'd dreamt about this moment.  There were NFL scouts in the stands.  I knew what happened next.
brandon		Let's ease back into it with our bread
brandon voiceover		...It was over.  I could've gone out with class, a gritty smile and a little wave to the crowd from a stretcher, instead I opted to go psycho on national tv.
jim rome		Welcome to the jungle!  Hey clones, do you believe this idiot?! That cannot happen!  This is college football, not the ultimate fighting championship!  What we have here is too much muscle and not  enough brain mass -- this is why we need a life-time ban!  Make an example out of him!  Because the sport deserves better than this!  Talk to me!
brandon voiceover		It made all the highlight films.  People wrote editorials.  Overnight I became the poster boy for the "Dark Side of Sports."
psychiatrist		Who did the referee represent, Brandon?
brandon		He represented the nearest guy I could grab.
psychiatrist		... Let's try again.
brandon voiceover		Football wasn't a sport, it was my life.  Maybe I couldn't play anymore but I couldn't leave.  So I went with it,
brandon		--You've reached the Jessica Simpson hot line!  Jessica's going to tell you all about Nick's surprise birthday party and her rockin' new panty line at Wal-Mart, but first, here's a little fan trivia to win a VIP Gold Package back stage pass to Jessica's Omnicon Hotels Summer Tour--
boss		Got a job for you, Lang.
brandon		I'm in the middle of taping.
boss		Bauer's sick, can't update his betting line.  You know anything 'bout sports?
brandon		... Yeah, a little.
brandon voiceover		900 numbers, audio text, the racket had a lot of names.
brandon voiceover		This guy's gig was sports handicapping.  Predicting winners for people who bet.  I was supposed to just record his picks.
brandon voiceover		My picks went 9-and-1 that weekend.  By football season, the job was mine...
brandon		--Kansas City is 7-1 against the point spread versus division opponents coming off a Monday night game.  Take K.C. minus the six points.  Call tomorrow for my pro football game of the year -- Tampa Bay versus Oakland.  That's 900-656-3100.  This is Brandon Lang saying good night and good luck everybody.
brandon		I went 9-2 in pro football Sunday and hit my third straight Monday night parlay.
boss		That's what you get paid for.
brandon		I want a raise to 12 bucks an hour.
boss		I don't make 12 an hour.
brandon		You're not picking 75 percent.
boss		If you're so good then bet your own games, get rich and send me a postcard
brandon		Hey Stu, where's the action this weekend?  SUPERVISOR/STU We're getting big money on Tampa/Oakland.  Everyone's jumping on Tampa Bay.
brandon		Crazy.
brandon		That game's gonna be won by coaching, Stu.  Gruden put that Tampa Bay team together before he came to Oakland, right?  He knows every weakness of that team and every strength.  He knows Brown only likes to catch over his left shoulder and he'll have him double-teamed to the right.  He knows Gannon always throws on a 3-step drop and the linebackers will take away the middle of the field.  Gannon'll be intercepted at least 4 times on Sunday.
stu		Thanks, B.
denny		I scrounged some old headers, B!  Check it out!  DENNY turns the key.  The car rumbles to life.  He revs the bored-out engine, flashes a shit eating grin.
brandon		... Awesome dude.  That's a righteous ride, Denny.
mom		I'm late.  Dinner's in the oven.  Where the hell's my lucky crucifix?  BRANDON reaches to a key rack, hands it to her.  She dons it.
mom		Thank God.  A man won 5600 at my table last night.  Tipped me out in color.  I gave it to Denny, help him with college.
mom		Mail came, letter for you, from Chicago.
brandon		Wanna bet?
mom		Open it.
brandon		At least they kicked me a cap.
mom		Shit.
brandon		Hello.
man's voice		Brandon!
brandon		Yeah?
man voiceover		Congratulations!  You went 9-2 last Sunday!  20-4 college!  Picking 77 percent winners since opening weekend!  I've been following you!  I'm a big fan, Brandon!  A big fan.
brandon		How'd you get this number?  If you want picks, call my 900 line.
man voiceover		What I want, Brandon, is for you to come to New York and work for me.
brandon		Who is this?
man voiceover		This is Walter Abrams.  I don't know if you know me but I run the biggest sports service in the country.  Hell, I started the industry.  Ask around.  Ask anyone,
brandon		Do me a favor and lose my number, I gotta go to work.
brandon		Hello.
walter vo		It's me again.
brandon		This is a joke, right?
walter vo		A joke can be the ultimate intellectual pursuit sometimes.  This? This is just a job offer.  In your top drawer there's an envelope with your name on it.
walter vo		That's travel cash and an airline ticket.  It's not a magic trick, Brandon.  I paid someone to put it there, who incidentally
walter vo		Run the numbers, do the math.  Hold on a sec--  Muzak.  BRANDON juggles the phone, searching, finds a pay stub. Amount: $275.00 a week.  BRANDON crosses it out, writes $1000. He crosses that out, writes $1500.  BRANDON pulls a quarter, flips it.  The coin bounces, spins, falls and--
brandon		I'm gonna pay.  I'll pay you--
driver		--Pay me?  Pay Walter.  His car.  I'm Milton, I drive for him.
brandon		I thought it was a service.  
milton		Oh yeah, going on two weeks.    I was bike messenger.  Walter's driver hit me with his car. I lie on ground, make it look worse than is, big car, you
walter vo		 Bring him in!
walter		I'll hire the trainers too... Well run it by them, you won't know until you try... So, they can stay the night.  I'll put 'em up at the Plaza, nice suite, park view... Okay double it... Triple it... Everything's about money.  Look, on Sunday, my daughter, an angel, turns six, it's not likely to happen again.  She
walter		Whoa, look at you.  The Marlboro man.
brandon		I've been in better.
brandon		No.
walter		If you can sell you'll never starve.  Ever speak in public? Perform?  Anything like that?
brandon		I played quarterback in college.  Division one.
walter		I know, I'm talking about not in uniform.
brandon		I used to sing at church.
walter		Oh really?  So you're religious?
brandon		I don't know.  I guess.
walter		Certain things, you either are or you aren't.  Which is it?
brandon		When I was a kid I thought I wanted to be a pastor... obviously not now.  I mean, yeah, I believe in God.
walter		Relax.  What do I care?  Besides, it's against the law to hire based on religious orientation.  You're not a republican are you?  Just kidding.
brandon		That was six years ago.
walter		C'mon, you won three conference titles at a major university. You think I went to college?  I'm autodidactic.  Big word, huh? Know what it means?  Self-taught.  Partially by reading, sure, but mostly by keeping my eyes open and asking a lot of stupid fucking questions.  I swear to God I'm looking at myself 30 years ago.  A taller, more athletic version maybe, but the resemblance is remarkable.
walter		I'm not supposed to smoke any more, among other things.  It's bad for my condition.  So before I die, did you do anything other than the sports phone in Vegas?
brandon		Just the 900 number recordings, it was full time, I mean we got 10 bucks a call.
walter		Chump change, Brandon.  We're angling for bigger fish here. You see, the networks don't talk about it and Uncle Sam can't tax it, but sports gambling is a 200-billion-dollar-a-year-business. These gamblers have needs, Brandon.  Come Monday morning, after a losing weekend, a lot of them have big needs.
walter		That's every pro game played last Sunday.  Do you know why Monday Night's the most watched game of the week? It's because Monday's the last chance bettors have to climb out of the hole before paying their bookies on Tuesday.  Sports betting's illegal in 49 states, including this one, but what we do is 100% legal -- it's exactly the same as a stock broker, only instead of touting stocks, we advise people on how to bet. We make the big money off our client list.  You see, when a client wins with our advice we take a percentage, which they gladly give to keep getting our picks.  When they lose we get zip.  So the object here, my tall, athletic, religious friend -- is to win.
tv walter		Hello -- this is Walter Abrams and welcome to The Sports Advisors and week three in professional football.  After a nice five day vacation on my yacht I can't be any more ready than I am right now.  Studying the mismatches this weekend I can only conclude they're giving my handicappers a license to steal.  I want you to take out a blank
walter		  My cable show.  Tapes Thursday, airs Saturday and Sunday morning. Nationwide.  Hell I need a new barber.  The man should
brandon		How'd you afford that yacht if the picks are free?
walter		There is no yacht.  Good, keep asking question.  Next.
brandon		You didn't answer about the free picks.
walter		I know.  What else?
brandon		What's on the second floor?
walter		That's where we print the money.  Any more?
brandon		No, that clears up pretty much everything.
walter		Great.  Welcome aboard.  We got some good stuff to work with.
walter		Ever have a manicure?
brandon		Me?  No.  Why?
walter		Because you need one.  Besides, there's  a girl you gotta meet.
brandon		Really?  What's she like?
walter		Beautiful, you'll like her--
toni		I see a beautiful woman.  What are you --all of 35?  I have a girlfriend, she was stunning, went in to "tighten it up a bit" and came out with a permanent smile.  Even when she cries she looks like she's laughing.  Another, she's on her third eye lift. Her skin's so tight, I swear, if you put an egg shell on her butt she'd look like a baby bird.
woman		I'm just thinking of a tune-up.
toni		Oh yeah, first it's a tune-up, then it's something else, and one day you'll come teetering in with your new 36Cs and a stretched face and you won't be able to say how unhappy you are because of all the collagen they shot in your lips.
woman		Easy for you to say.  You used to model.  The other WOMEN CUSTOMERS listening nearby nod in agreement.
toni		Oh yeah, that's true.  Those were the good days.  Sometimes I like to just curl up on the ledge with my box of retouched photos and reminisce about rehab.
woman		Tightly wound today, aren't we?
toni		I guess.  Must be the coffee talking.
toni		... Brandon?
brandon		Hi.
toni		I'm Toni.  Walter said you'd stop by.
brandon		Nice to meet you.
toni		I know.
brandon		He makes all his employees do this?
toni		Every one.
brandon		How often?
toni		Once.  Before they start work.
brandon		Weird.
toni		You think?
brandon		I've never had my nails done before.
toni		I can see that.
brandon		No thanks.  I'm fine.
toni		No, do you drink?
brandon		Excuse me?
toni		Alcohol.  Are you a drinker?
brandon		I've been pretty focused on staying in shape.  I mean a beer once in a while.
toni		Smoke?
brandon		No.
brandon		What about it?
toni		Look, I'm sorry, I'm pressed for time.
brandon		No.
toni		Really?  Why not?
brandon		Toni, huh?  Are you here full-time?
toni		It's my shop, I better be.  Why don't you gamble?
brandon		Well I'll tell you, Toni.  I bet on something once.  Risked everything I had and lost.
toni		So?
brandon		I swore I'd never do it again.
toni		Well Walter could definitely use someone with a little resolve in his life.
brandon		  Ya know, Toni, this is my first time in town.  I'm not used to how fast things run around here.  I'm wondering if you'd  like to have dinner tonight?  Let's get
toni		... He didn't tell you.
brandon		What?
toni		Brandon, Walter and I are married.
brandon		What?  Walter just said I was meeting a woman.  He acted like...
toni		Walter's got a weird sense of humor.  Look, he has a big, bright, beautiful spirit, you'll love working for him, but he's held together by meetings.  If it has "anonymous" at the end, Walter goes.  He has to.  He also has to be very careful who he let's into his life.  In  most ways, Walter's brilliant -- but he can be bullshitted and I can't.  So he sends 'em over to me before he hires 'em.
brandon		You're kidding me?  Coming here... the manicure... this was an interview?
toni		You're swift.
brandon		How'd I do?
toni		Except for an illegal forward pass,
walter		I'm starting you on the 900 numbers, same gig you did in Vegas. You'll make your picks and record them every day, once a day Monday through Friday and five times a day on weekends.  Each call's worth 25 bucks a shot.  Right now we get a few dozen hits a week.  We should be doing triple that.  I'm sending down some test copy.  Before you record it, a little advice.
walter		Your pitch sucks, it doesn't exist.  The pieces are there, we just gotta bust you out.
walter		From now on you have a new name -- John Anthony, "The Million Dollar Man."
brandon		Hold on.  What's wrong with Brandon Lang?
walter		Brandon Lang is still at home with his mother.  You're selling a lifestyle here, and John's livin' large.  John's got a direct line to God and for a measly 25 bucks a call you're gonna let the world's losers listen in.
brandon		Hello sports fans!  This is John Anthony in the Big Apple with my big money picks!  The action starts Saturday with college ball and our first matchup, Michigan against Indiana--
walter vo		Wrong!
walter		What's your sales pitch?
brandon		What's my sales pitch?  77 percent's my sales pitch.
walter		Stats aren't enough!  These are gamblers
walter		Certainty in an uncertain world!
brandon		John Anthony here, ready to make all your betting dreams come true!  Call now and let me win for you!  The point spread in the Indiana/Michigan game's up to four, making that game a gimme--
walter		What is that shit?  You spent 6 years bouncing from one dead-end job to another.  Riding to work on a frigging bicycle.  Were you making some kind of statement?  What the hell were you afraid of?
brandon		I wasn't afraid of anything.  I was working my ass off, trying to get back in the game.
walter		You are back in the game!  Convince me you belong here!
brandon		This is John Anthony here, and from Wall Street to Tokyo to Hollywood, all your big money stays and plays with me!  Winning consistently's the name of this game and I always remain the same, winners on a consistent basis, 77 percent winners!  So sit back and relax because
brandon voiceover		Game one of my three-team parlay is  Michigan hosting Indiana; the big boys at Michigan are just 2-7 against the spread as a double-digit home favorite and with arch rival Wisconsin on deck next week, Indiana will catch them looking ahead!  Take Indiana plus the 16 points!  It's a lock!
brandon voiceover		You want more?  John Anthony's the man with a plan to make you money!  Game two goes to Florida and North Carolina!  I don't care how many points you gotta lay with Florida, lay it!  They'll win by 50!
brandon		C'mon!  First too little, then too much --
walter		It's a start.
brandon		Tell me what you want.
walter		No.  What do you want, Brandon?  That's what this is about!
brandon		Walter?  Are you okay?
walter		... Huh?... It's nothing.
brandon		Should I call someone?
walter		Not unless they got a spare heart.  I'm okay.
brandon		What are you doing?
walter		Courage wants to laugh.
walter		He's a machine, all he does is work out and pick winners.  Talk about fit.  Go  take a peek, see him with his shirt off.  I did. He's a serious side of beef.
toni		Enjoy your daughter's party.
walter		Check him out, you know you want to.
toni		Get out of your head, Walter.  It's a bad neighborhood.
brandon		I'll have the bruketta and the -- this, with the pasta.
walter		It's bruchetta.  Like little pizzas without the cheese.
brandon		Bruchetta.
walter		Don't worry about it.  Anyone goes 20 for 24 in college football, 12 for 14 pro can call it whatever he wants.  Ever drink a thousand dollar bottle of wine?  Steward!
toni		It's a waste, Walter.  He hardly drinks.
walter		It's a celebration.  Just because he's out with a couple of reformed drunks doesn't mean he can't enjoy himself.
toni		I was a lot of things, Walter, but I was never a drunk.
brandon		Actually, truth be told, I've never had a 12 dollar bottle of water either.
walter		He thinks we're fighting.
brandon		No.  I just, this place is great.
toni		--Watch out, Walter, he's a fixer.
walter		175 calls on the 900 number.
toni		Did you call home?  Let 'em know how you did?  How you're doing?
brandon		I will tomorrow.  My mom works nights at the casino, she'll sleep till three.
toni		Are you close with your parents?
walter		He's very close.  They sound terrific.
toni		Is your name Brandon?
brandon		Oh, they're great.  We talk all the time.
toni		What're they like?
brandon		Mom's terrific.  Amazing lady.  I got a little brother, Denny, going to college next year.  Complete motor head.  Dad's a... well he's a sports nut.  He was, I mean, it all came from that.
walter		Kid grew up with the frigging Cleavers...
walter		I should've ordered two.
toni		What'd the doctor say, Walter?
walter		Oh yeah, I've been meaning to tell you.  I had a check-up yesterday. Afterwards
walter		You didn't touch the sauce.
toni		Neither should you, Walter.
walter		I read chocolate's good for you.
toni		I'm not raising a kid alone.
walter		Don't get dramatic, Toni.  In biblical times you'd just move in with my brother Morty.
walter		--Wow.  What a meal.  Do you feel good, Brandon?  Content?
brandon		Very.
walter		Yeah, I can tell.  Don't be.  Ever.  One week's over, another begins.  The past is merely a prologue.  In this job you have to push the envelope every day.
walter		Look at that.  Beauty and the beasts.  What do you think of her, Brandon?
brandon		She's cute.
walter		Cute doesn't half cover it.  The girl's gorgeous.  And bored out of her mind.  Waiting for some young buck to save her from those two gorillas.  Check it out.  She's eyeing you again, Brandon.
brandon		So are the two guys she's with.
walter		I'll bet you 10-to-1 on a 1000 you can't pick her up, cash, if you leave with her.
walter		Who's gambling?  It's a challenge.  If Brandon leaves with her I give him ten thousand dollars, that's probably more than he made last year.  If not, he gives me a grand, which I'll give to you.
brandon		I don't bet, Walter.
walter		All right.  Before you bust a move, just one thing...
toni		What the hell was that?
walter		I'll send over a bottle of champagne.
walter		The voice of reason.  She's right.  I owe 'em a meal.  Hey -- here we go, Brandon, your girlfriend's going to the bathroom.
walter		Well get moving, slick.
walter		Hey, I just raised the bar.  C'mon, kid.  John Anthony could close her.
toni		I'd prefer Brandon...
brandon		You're beautiful.
brandon		I just want to get to know you.
girl		You just want to get into my pants.
brandon		I want to get into your mind, your heart, your soul.  I don't see you wearing any pants in this equation.
brandon		I'm Brandon.  What's your name?
brandon		Alexandria.  Beautiful name for a beautiful girl.
omit		 INT. BROWNSTONE BACK STAIRWELL - DAY
walter		Everything you've ever done's been leading up to this moment. Put your ear to the door.  Hear that?  It's the sound of possibilities. The din of greatness.
walter		We use the 800 number and free tips to bait the hook.  Then the bettors are
walter		This is the day's phone sheet, it's a list of everyone who's called.  Only way to keep track of the action.  All leads equal money.
herbie		Trust me, we're going to turn all this around... I'm aware last weekend was difficult... Well of course I do, that's a substantial sum--
walter		Fuck him if he can't take a joke.
brandon		You're telling me that all this is legal?
walter		It better be.  Five of these guys are off-duty cops.  We're just advising people how to bet, not making the bets for 'em.
walter		Brandon Lang, meet Reggie.
reggie		You're the QB that went off on the refs.
reggie		Hamstring.
brandon		No, he's in the middle of renegotiating.  It's a tantrum, he'll play Sunday.
jerry		  --I know it's a new stadium, I'm asking if they used Astroturf or Astroplay?... Astroplay, it has a rubber silica base, like ground up tires... Look, I don't have time to explain abrasion indexes and resistance scales to you, trust me, it makes a big fucking difference...
walter		I had three guys who picked games.  I fired one last weekend. I'm giving you his job.  This is your office.  From here  out your picks are going straight to our biggest customers.  How do you like it?
brandon		What's not to like?  JERRY SYKES appears at the door.  Fast glance at BRANDON, attention to WALTER --
walter		What do you think?
jerry		Miami's still a lock.  The win/loss ratios and RPI ratings are off the charts.  I'm keeping it on my sheet.
walter		Jerry's our top handicapper, came to me straight out of grad school.  Jerry, meet the new kid in town.
jerry		Whoa, phone guy makes good.  Big jump from the 900 numbers. Watch out you don't get a nose bleed.  Just kidding, best of luck, I gotta get back to work.
brandon		Pleasure meeting you.  By the way, Jerry, New York's gonna win straight up.  They always play the fish tight.  Tonight it's foregone, they win outright.
jerry		Really?  Listen up, stick to college, sonny.  You have to work up to pro ball around here.  Nice try though.
walter		  I got three guys who can handicap and 20 who can sell but I never had one who could do both, not really, not until now.
brandon		You mean me?
walter		Not you.  John Anthony.
brandon		John Anthony doesn't exist.
walter		That's a shock 'cause I'm standing in his office and you're sitting in his chair!
brandon		Look, making predictions is one thing -- but pushing people to bet, it's not me.
walter		Pushing people?  Get real, this country was built on gambling. Look at Wall Street -- one big casino.  The state spends millions hawking the lottery.  If people want to pay for advice on who to bet, who are we to say no?  Stop being selfish, spread the word!  Check your bible, Brandon, tis better to give than receive.
brandon		You got a whole room full of salesmen.
walter		Big bettors don't want to talk to a middle man, they want to speak to the guy making the picks -- and you're picking 80 percent winners.
brandon		I don't want your money --
walter		--Jesus, don't start that shit again.  Sell me.
brandon		I don't want your money, I want your bookie's money!
walter		What happened to the fuck?
brandon		Nothing, I just don't talk like that.
walter		I can't have someone working for me who can't say fuck.
brandon		It's not that I can't.  Why do I have to?
walter		Because there's no other fucking word that can convey the precise feeling and fucking flavor of life's various predicaments and certain concepts the way a well-placed fuck can.  Fuck is your friend.  Fuck can be your best friend.
brandon		I'm happy for you and your friend, Walter, but I'm not using it.
walter		Chaucer used it 600 years ago.  It was good enough for him. C'mon--
walter		C'mon, repeat after me -- fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck.  Fuck he, fuck she, fuck me, fuck them, fuck me -- try it.
brandon		It's not me.  Let it go.
walter		Backbone.  Almost as good.  We'll keep working on the other thing... So, you really like New York in tonight's game?
brandon		Where are we going?
walter		Continue your education.
walter		We're here for the gambler's anonymous meeting...
businessman		...I mean you'd think with two mortgages out, repo guys staking out my car, my job on the line and my wife threatening to leave, you'd think I'd have the goddamn brains to stop, instead of staying in the chase, doubling down, which of course is what I did... I know I'm sick because I keep thinking if I just pulled that game out then I got a lock on the parlay and I'm flush going into Monday night and--
walter		My name's Walter.  I'm new to the group.    Hi.  I've been going to meetings like this for 18 years.  Once a week, every Friday night, for 18 years.  This, my friends, is my 936th consecutive meeting.
leon		It's not?
walter		Not even close.  You're a lemon.  Like a bad car, there's something inherently defective in you.  And you.  And me!  All of us here -- we're lemons!  Big, juicy, acidic, ice-tea flavoring lemons! We look like everyone else but we're defective because when most people make a bet they want to win, while we, the degenerate gamblers of the world, we're subconsciously playing to lose. All humans like going to the edge of the abyss, but what makes us different is we go all the way and hurl ourselves off into the void!  And we like doing it so much we do it time after time after time!  Me?  I always felt most alive when they were raking away the chips, and every one here knows what I'm talking about. People like us, even when we win, it's just a matter of time before we give it all back.  But when we lose, and I mean the kind of loss that makes your asshole pucker to the size of a decimal point, there's a moment when you're standing there and you've just recreated the worst possible nightmare this side of malignant cancer for the 20th goddamn time and you suddenly realize -- hey, I'm still here, I'm still breathing, I'm still alive!  In order to really live you have to be aware of your own mortality -- and a losing bet of a certain size is one of the best ways
bicycle messenger		Hey!  You're the guy I see on tv every weekend selling betting picks!
walter		... Yeah.  So?
walter		Check the charter, buddy, we all left our jobs at the door. You gonna toss an ex-alcoholic bartender out of an AA meeting?
brandon		... No, I mean, we walked in together --
brandon		What the fuck was that?!
walter		... What'd you just say?
brandon		You heard me!  I said what was that?
walter		No, you said "What the fuck?"  That's what you said.
brandon		So?
walter		That was great!  It was all worth it! Don't you see?  I felt your anger because of that one word!  Well done!  I'm proud of you!  The progress you're making Brandon, I gotta say, it's exhilerating!
omit		 INT. SALESROOM - DAY
brandon		Hey, I stopped by to say hi, I'm Brandon.
brandon		I'm picking now with you and Jerry.
southie		Don't take it personal.  Chuck's got a condition, get's anxious around people.
tammy		His name's Amir, he's a dime bettor.  Owns a dry cleaners.  We got him for the subscription.  He's on line three.
tammy		Walter wanted your first call to be special.  Go get 'em tiger.
brandon		  Amir, my man, John Anthony here!
amir		Yes, hello.
brandon		Today's your day, Amir!  It's a Pamplona thing, I'm running wild in the streets this weekend!  Starting with the hottest Saturday of my life!  How much can you lay with your bookie?  20 large?
brandon		--Amir, this is my lock of a lifetime!  Texas plus the six points! They win by two touchdowns!
brandon		--Amir, buddy, I'm talking about banging out the biggest win of your life.
brandon		Hold on, I got Vegas on the line.
walter		There's only one thing you have to know about any of our clients -- they're all in the hole.  The second they pick up the phone, wham!  Right to the point!  You're above them!  Let 'em feel it!  More confidence!  More John Anthony!
amir		Favorite drink?  I dunno, Pina Colada.
brandon		Tomorrow we gotta get you a new drink.  But for now, this is what you're gonna do.  First, you're going to bet 20 large on Texas, then you're going to put on a
amir		... What about payment?
brandon		Good question.  What about it?
brandon		We take a percentage if WE win, Amir -- not exactly your problem of late, is it?
brandon		It's simple, you don't get any more picks.  Comprende?  So make the bet, make the drink and let's roll this into
brandon		To hell with power ratings -- McNab lost his dog yesterday! Hunting accident.  Everyone knows you don't mess with a man who just lost his dog!  Take Atlanta plus the points and send me ten thou Western Union by tomorrow, Stan -- let's ride this wave into Sunday!
southie		Billy, thanks for the 15,000 Fed Ex. What're you up, 160 or something?
reggie		The fuck do you care how he does it?  And where the hell's our 30 grand for hitting that 3-team college parlay last night?
herbie		  Do this, call your off-shore sports book right now and put the whole 100,000 on Green Bay-Dallas-Cleveland, it's called a three-team parlay and pays 6-1.  I do appreciate the 40,000 you sent us today, but let me assure you we've only just begun to make serious money.
time lapse		SAME SHOT.  LATER.  Sunday sports start winding down and --
time lapse		SAME SHOT.  LATER.  All the screens are dark save one, where the last game of the day finally ends in overtime and --
julia		Faster daddy!  WALTER crawls around the room, stops before BRANDON, grins.
walter		10-2 in pro football?  85 percent for the weekend?  Jesus, you're a mutant.
julia		Go daddy!  WALTER whinnies like a horse, keeps crawling.  BRANDON goes into the kitchen.  TONI cooking at the stove, referring to a daily planner, talking on the phone.
toni		Monday's no good because I take Julia to ballet.  Tuesday I work late at the salon.  Wednesday's a maybe if I can move a couple clients to after six but I'll have to check.  I really want to come in with him.  Listen, I have to call you back tomorrow.
brandon		What's all the commotion?
toni		The doctor, thank God, put Walter,on an exercise program.  I want to be there the first time he goes.  Make sure the trainer understands Walter's aversion to consistency.
brandon		Aversion to consistency?
toni		He's always been that way.
brandon		Well that's consistent.
walter		Life is fucking... good.
toni		Duck, Brandon, here it comes.
walter		I've been tracking you since last year.
toni		Don't let him steamroll you.
walter		--Can I get the damn thing out?  I want to put John Anthony on tv this week.
brandon		That's me.  You mean me.
walter		That's right.  You, John Anthony.  You're one in the same.
toni		Go on -- get to the good part, Walter.
walter		Hold on.  Before I say another word, understand -- you do this thing, Brandon, and from here out you gotta eat, sleep, shit, breathe, walk, talk and fart John
toni		Think it over, Brandon, don't decide now.
brandon		It sounds like a promotion.
walter		Bet your ass it is.  Five-star.
brandon		--I'm in.
toni		Well that's a thoughtful response.  Here I was, worried you'd rush your decision.
brandon		It's the only move.  For six years I've been living on Ramen noodles.  For the
walter		Living, not acting.  You understand that as of right now Brandon Lang with his fettucini knee and his self-fucking pity is as flat dead as Donald Trump's hair and John "I-can-walk-on-fucking-water" Anthony has taken his place?
toni		Listen to what he's asking you, Brandon.
walter		She's right.  There's no going back.  I mean that.  This is gonna cost me.  I'm talking about building an empire around you.  Do you understand that?
brandon		... Should I wait a little to create some tension?  Of course I understand, I'm John Fucking Anthony.  I've got the crystal ball...
walter		I need a new car for my friend.
brandon		No.
dealer		Walter, do you trust him?
walter		With my wife naked.
walter		I think he likes that one.
walter		You okay?
brandon		I'm scared shitless.
walter		Don't worry about your lines, it's all scripted.  You've been here before, kid, just think of it like a football game.
brandon		This is different.
walter		How?
brandon		There's no opponent.
walter		Perfect, then you're a lock to win.
tech		30 seconds.  Walter, we're not getting your audio.
jerry		John Anthony, huh?  All I see's another wannabee in a 1000-dollar suit.  Word to
tech		Five, four, three, two, one--
walter		Welcome to this week's edition of The Sports Advisors!  America's premier sports information program with myself, Walter Abrams, Jerry Sykes, Chuck Adler  and a truly gifted newcomer to the Sports Advisor panel, a substantial find -- John Anthony!  We're entering week six in pro football!  This is when the cream rises to the top!  This is when things get hot!  It's oven mitt time! This is big-time ball season so let's get right into it with the Wizard of Odds -- Jerry "The Source" Sykes!  Jerry, what's the Sykes System predicting for this weekend?
jerry		Walter, my patented computer models tell me we're looking at nothing less than the perfect storm of betting opportunities. But first, last week I cashed in a big-time call on on Chicago as an outright winner over Indianapolis -- making it my 8th straight top selection winner right here on this tv show!  This Sunday I have 5 match-ups I absolutely love, including Miami at New York!  Stats, rankings, records, weather, the Sykes System uses 42 proven indexs to eliminate the guesswork from sports wagering. Without my patented, computer-based picks you have a better chance of seeing God knocking on your door with five strippers and a bag of Bolivian cocaine than winning on your own!  Call me for my five games!  Absolutely free -- 800-238-6648!
walter		Our experts know how to read between the lines, we know how to analyze a point spread, we're not pulling rabbits out of
chuck		  Hell yes -- with a side order of fried bookmaker!!!  I'm the grim reaper of bookmakers!  I've put more bookies out of business than the I.R.S.!  How many gamblers did I bail out last weekend with my game of the year!  Denver, a 10-
walter		  Holy Christ, I forgot my earplugs.  Take a break before you blow a gasket, we'll get back to you after my hearing returns.  Saturday comes before Sunday and looking at this Saturday's college match-ups is the last but certainly not least member of The Sports Advisors -- John Anthony!
brandon		  --John Anthony here, the Million Dollar Man with the billion dollar plan!  From Wall Street to Tokyo to Hollywood, all your big money stays and plays with me!
walter		... It bites you on the ass?
brandon		Not in my case.  You tell us, Jerry.
jerry		It sets you free?
brandon		That's right, but with me it makes you M-O-N-EE!  I'm picking 80 percent, is that
walter		I'm not here.  Go back to sleep.
toni		It's four in the morning.
toni		What are you doing?
walter		Going for a run.  See the sunrise.  We're doubling volume this week.  And doubling it again after that.  He can pick, he can sell, he's gonna change things around here.  He's the real deal. Knows sports from the inside.  That's how he picks.  Guy like him comes along once in a -- a --
toni		-- 100 years.
walter		Yeah, a lifetime.
toni		Walter, come to bed.
walter		Not tired.
toni		You're exhausted.
walter		I'm just gonna run the bridge, up Fifth, circle Central Park, be back in no time.
toni		Get in bed.  Lie down next to me.  Come on.  Come here, Walter.
walter		Just a quick once-around.
toni		Roll on your stomach for a minute.
walter		Just for a sec.  I've gotta meet the trainer tomorrow.  Told me to run.  Run in place, or from one place to another...
toni		--I know.  Of course you do.  This is no time to sleep, Walter... Can't sleep now... Just because you're so tired... Completely, totally, utterly exhausted... I'll be here when you get back from your
southie		You see him this morning?  Wearing those suits to work now.
reggie		He keeps picking 90 percent I'll press the fuckers for him.
walter		What a weekened!  Helluva Christmas bonus if this keeps up. Where'd you hide the phone sheet?
tammy		I dunno, he said it was personal.
walter		Did Brandon take the call?
walter		Don't mention it to him.  And don't patch the guy through.  Say Brandon doesn't work here, you can't reach him.
jerry		You know anything about Stokley being out this weekend against the New York?
brandon		A knock would be nice, Jerry.
jerry		I'm underwater here, man.  Yes or no?
brandon		No.
jerry		You know something... You hear anything, let me know.  That's how this works.
brandon		I'll rush right over.  Stat.
jerry		All inside information gets shared.
brandon		Inside?  I've got nothing inside.
jerry		F.Y.I. -- we work as a team here, that's the way we do it.  I'll do the same for you.  So stop holding out on me, babe.
brandon		This wouldn't have anything to do with
jerry		Listen you little shit, I've been doing this six years to your one.
walter		  What are you doing in here?  Hit the phones and do some damage control -- re-write your frigging computer program.
jerry		Hey, it was a fucked weekend.
walter		For some people.
walter		There's a 50-dime bettor on line three.  Wants to talk to John Anthony.
brandon		Who?
walter		His name's Carl.  Carl owns a couple dozen McDonalds franchises. Guy's a gazillionaire.  That sign out front might as well be his bank account.
jerry		No no no no no.  What'd you mean?  I landed that lead!  That's my guy!
walter		Was.
jerry		He's raiding my fucking lists!
walter		Your clients are jumping ship you lactose intolerant fuck!  Get outta my sight!
brandon		Carl, John Anthony here, how's the fast-food king...?  Good--
julia		Can we play?
toni		Okay, let me just put the groceries away.
julia		I want to play princess.
toni		So do I.  Go put your dress on.
walter		Easy 200, huh?  Here's something extra for a cab.
girl		Thanks, Walter.  Talk to ya.
walter		No, no, you think she was for me?  Are you crazy?  No.  I just had her come up to pay her.  I got her for John.
toni		I don't give a damn who you got her for!  We have a 6-year-old in the house, Walter!  What the hell is going on here?
walter		You think I slept with her?  C'mon!
toni		Who the hell's John?
walter		Brandon, we all call him John now.
toni		You got Brandon a hooker?
walter		New city, no friends, working all hours.
toni		What the hell are you creating here, Walter?
walter		I don't understand this.  I was helping him out, that's all.
toni		Helping him?  Really?  Like the others before him?
walter		This kid's different, he's different -- wait a minute.  This has nothing to do with you, you know I do business up here. Why are you so angry?
toni		Are we actually going to have this conversation?  Are you completely clueless?
walter		You're jealous.  Look at you!
toni		Of what?!
walter		Gee, I don't know -- Brandon screwing someone?
toni		You really are fucking crazy, Walter!  That never entered my mind!
walter		That's not where those thoughts enter.
toni		Fuck you!
walter		You'll be happy to know he didn't sleep with her.  I paid her off just for coming.  No pun intended.
walter		... Julia my jewel, you're getting big angel.
julia		Can we play princess, Daddy?
walter		Course we can.  Who am I gonna be?
julia		You're the king, daddy, like always.
brandon		Let's get really wild and you can blow mine.  The GIRL laughs.  BRANDON crosses the stage, takes his place on the set between WALTER and JERRY.  CHUCK sits off to the side, eating a muffin.  WALTER looks voer at BRANDON --
walter		Look at you.  I like the tan.
brandon		Toni put one of those lamps down in my room.  The ladies do love it.
technician		60 seconds!
walter		John's up first tonight, Jerry.
jerry		What?
walter		John Anthony's leading off tonight.
jerry		John Anthony's leading?
walter		Somebody tell the engineer there's an echo in here.
jerry		Two years I lead and you bury me in the deck over a few lousy fucking weekends?  The Sykes System's based on percentages -- the long haul.
walter		No, that's called a mutual fund, Jerry.
jerry		... He leads, I'm walking.
walter		He's leading.
walter		That's baby talk!  You need a fucking rattle!  Sit down!
walter		See that?  He made the safe play.  Me, I would've walked, but I'm a fucked-up human being.  That's the difference between us. Right there.  Jerry's a statistician, I'm a gambler.  And you're not a gambler, not really -- until you bet more than you can afford to lose.
technician		Five, four, three, two, one --
walter		Welcome to week 7 of pro football!
brandon		Denny, it's me... What'd I tell ya?...  Hey, it's your money, dude, you won it...  Well did you hook it up yet?... Hell yeah, crank it, let me hear--
denny		It's the bomb, B!
brandon		Sure sounds like it!  I'm heading out with some people, everything else cool?
denny		Everything's great.  Did dad reach you?
brandon		Dad?  No, why?
denny		He keeps calling.  He saw you on tv, wants to talk to you.  I gave him your work number but he says they won't put him through.
brandon		Really?  BRANDON'S eye catches WALTER across the set, watching a playback of the show.  TONI enters the studio, kisses WALTER hello and --
walter		I'm starved, there's a new steak house around the corner.  You two split a prime rib, I'll get the porterhouse, we'll whack it up!
toni		Let's walk, you could use the exercise.
walter		Stop worrying.  We're set--
brandon		Let me ask you something, Walter.
walter		Shoot.
brandon		Have you been blocking any of my calls?
walter		Of course.  You don't need distractions, there's a lot of crazies out there.
brandon		Does that include my father?
walter		You're asking, I'll tell you... Yeah.
toni		Walter.
walter		Hold on, Brandon, if I didn't block his calls would you've talked to him?  Honestly.
brandon		That's not the point!
walter		Then what exactly is the point, Brandon? What's the full story here?  What's the deal with your old man?
brandon		You tell it, you seem to know.
walter		--I only know pieces.  I was trying to spare you from something.
brandon		  Spare me?  By blocking my calls?  There's nothing you can spare me from.  He's a drunk.  Left when I was 9.  I couldn't t compete with a bottle.  End of story.
walter		... That's it?  That's the best you can do?  Hell, Toni and I'll match our dysfunctional childhoods against yours
toni		I didn't have a great home-life either.
walter		"Great?"  Tell him about the uncle--
toni		--He gets the idea.
walter		Don't sugarcoat this shit, you were abused by everybody but the family pet, isn't that right, honey?
toni		Walter, please.
brandon		That's a really scary thought.
walter		If not me, then pick someone else.  It's all in your head!  The shit that happened to you, to Toni, to me -- you know what it is?  Just that, shit that happened.
man		I'm trying to sleep, asshole!
walter		Dad!  Is that you?
man		I'll crush you like a beetle!
walter		How's Mom?!
man		Fucking freak!
walter		I love you too!  Don't wait up!
brandon		Are you serious, Amir?  You gonna fucking haggle with me over a measly 50 thousand on the 250 grand I won you this weekend?
amir		Don't get me wrong, John.  I'm thankful, very much, you're amazing, it's just that 50 thousand seems slightly steep--
brandon		--The first time you call me you're in a hole the size of the Grand Canyon, you're crying about hocking your fiance's ring and this weekend you're phoning me from a suite at the Bellagio that I put you in -- you know what -- I'm cutting you off... You want to continue with me, I'm tagging on a 10 percent aggravation tax!  Now get to Western Union and shoot me 75 grand by tonight and we'll kiss and make up.
woman voiceover		This is... May I please speak to a Brandon Lang?
brandon		... Mom?
brandon's mother		Brandon, is that you?
brandon voiceover		That's me.
intercut		BRANDON'S MOTHER Are you okay?
brandon		Never better.  Kicking ass and taking names.  Did you get the money I sent?
brandon's mother		Well that's why I'm calling, honey.
brandon		Good good good.  I talked to Denny.  Next month I'm flying you and him out here.  First class.  I'll put you up at The Plaza. You'll love this joint.
brandon's mother		It sounds great, Brandon, but the money -- it's too much.  Where did you get it?
brandon		I made it.  Earned it.  Every fucking cent.  Put it in Denny's college fund.
brandon's mother		Listen to you.
brandon		It's just how people talk here.
brandon's mother		Who's this John Anthony person?
brandon		He's me.  I'm him.
brandon's mother		And he talks like that?
brandon		He's pretty fucking salty -- geez, I'm sorry, Mom -- I mean yeah. Look, the main point is I'm learning a lot here.
brandon's mother		Then you should know you can't be two people, Brandon.
brandon		I appreciate the concern, Ma, but the checks I've been sending -- the checks you've been cashing -- those are from John Anthony.
brandon's mother		Funny, I thought they were from my son.
walter		We're going to Puerto Rico!
brandon		Gotta put you on hold, Ma.
walter		Since Ricky Martin moved out, all that's left are tourists, cruise ships and C.M. Novian -- one of the biggest sports bettors in the world.  He just called.  Wants to meet you in person!  To-day! Flight leaves Laguardia in 45 minutes.
brandon		  I gotta go, Ma... Ma... Son of a bitch --  my own fucking mother hung up on me!
brandon		What do you know about him?
walter		Not much, 'cept for the fact he's a world class prick.  Bastard treated me worse than my Hong Kong tailor.  Never once returned a call.  I've been trying to bag this guy for years.  Do you have any idea what this is worth?
brandon		No, but I want a bonus if we pull it off.
walter		Look at me.  There is no if -- it's only when.  This time he called us, remember?  You hooked him.  Know that.  Sweat that.
brandon		Relax, I'll get in character in the car.  WALTER suddenly slows, winces.  He angles toward a bathroom.
brandon		... Walter?  WALTER grabs for a water fountain, misses, suddenly collapses.
brandon		Your vial -- where's your pills, Walter?  WALTER finds the vial, pops it, his chest heaves and the pills spill on the floor.  WALTER looks wide-eyed up at BRANDON, mouths "Big one."  BRANDON frantically loosens WALTER'S shirt.  A crowd
brandon		Hold on, Walter we're getting help!  Oh my God.  Listen to me. Walter -- Walter.  You're gonna be fine.  Hold on!
walter		Brandon --
brandon		Save your strength.  Help's coming.  Help's coming.
walter		... Do you love me?
brandon		Of course I do.
walter		Uh-huh.
brandon		I do.  I really do love you.
walter		... How much?
brandon		A lot!  Now don't talk.
walter		I believe you.  I believe you love me.  I love you too... Just one thing --
brandon		Save your strength, Walter.
walter		... Would you love me if this was a joke?
brandon		What?
walter		I'm fine.  Just practicing...
walter		I'm okay!  Little gas.  Must've had too many peanuts on the plane.
brandon		You sick fucking fuck!  That was too goddamn fucking far!!!
walter		You weren't listening!  You're not paying attention to me!  There's no such thing as too far!  Push everything as far as you can! Push it until it starts pushing back and then push some goddamn more!  Remember that when you're with this guy today!
omit		 INT. PUERTO RICAN MANSION - DAY
walter		I start to die, fuck the hospital, just sit me down, I wanna kack here.
walter		Mr. Novian!  What can I say?  An honor.  This is my associate, John Anthony.
novian		You should know I think that most sports services are a complete scam... However, I hear your boy here's having quite a season. What's your system?
walter		  Our system?  Fuck that, what's your system?  Walter laughs.  Novian stone-faced, glances at his watch when--
brandon		It's a privilege to meet you, Mr. Novian.   You have a beautiful home.  Let's start with how much you bet.
novian		A million a game, across the board.
brandon		Nice round number, is that our ceiling here?  Is that the most we're working with?
novian		"We're" not doing anything until I hear how you feel about this weekend.
brandon		Do you rent that yacht out there?
novian		I own it.
brandon		Well, sir, that's how I feel about this weekend.  That may sound cocky, I don't care.  I didn't come down here to lie.
novian		Do you have inside information?
brandon		If I did I wouldn't share that with you.  My record speaks for itself.  The truth is I know these teams better than they know themselves.  I'm going 12 for 12 this weekend, and that includes the Monday Night parlay.
novian		Why should I believe you?
brandon		With all due respect, Mr. Novian, you can't afford not to.
novian		I can afford to do any damn thing I please.
brandon		Can you?  What I'm saying is can you -- can anyone for that matter -- afford to lose as much as a man like you probably needs to bet to feel a win?  Winning's a funny thing, Mr. Novian... it's one of those rare commodities on earth money can't buy.  Or was, until you called me.
brandon		The price is a quarter million, Mr. Novian -- up-front -- in addition to a percentage of every game you win.
novian		Fuck you.  I never pay anything up front.
brandon		And we've never charged it before.  But with what you're betting, 250 up front's a bargain.  You want this weekend's winners, that's my offer.  Take it or leave it.
novian		  ... Step outside.  BRANDON and WALTER exchange looks, unsure where this is going.
novian		... Ever pick oranges, Mr. Anthony?
brandon		Nope.
novian		I have, in fact it's how I started.
young salesman		They need it, Mr. Anthony.  BRANDON picks up his pen, regards the box for Monday Night -- Seattle or New Orleans?  The point spread is Seattle minus 3. A box beside it is for the over/under.  That number is 34. BRANDON about to pick when he stops, looks up, smiles --
brandon		Three questions.  What's your mother's name?
young salesman		Shelia.
brandon		What street did you grow up on?
young salesman		Atlantic Avenue.
brandon		Who do you like Monday night?
young salesman		I don't know.
brandon		Pick one.
young salesman		That's your job.
brandon		I'll do your job tomorrow, today you do mine.
young salesman		What are you talking about?
brandon		Pick one.  Stop stalling.  You know who's playing.  Seattle versus New Orleans.
young salesman		... I dunno.  I guess I like Seattle giving the two points.
young salesman		You can't do that.
brandon		Sure I can!  Over 34 points or under!
young salesman		Over!
young salesman		I'm not handing that in.  Like a million dollars is going on that game!
brandon		Like a lot more than that.  Relax.  I think we know I can pick. Today I'm picking you.  The outcome'll be the same.
young salesman		What if I'm wrong?
brandon		Didn't they tell you?  There is no if.
walter		They score, we win!  AL MICHAELS/vo from tv  --Kuhn's stopped at the 10!  Seattle down by three.  Two seconds on the clock.  Kuhn suffered a concussion last week and with that foot injury in the first quarter he has no mobility -- Hanratty drops back, he's out of the pocket, breaks one tackle, throws downfield, it's tipped!  Raymond's got it!  Breaks the plane! Touch down!  Seattle takes it 20 to 17!  They win by three! What a game!
walter		100 fucking percent!  Champagne corks start popping.  Someone hits the remote and the wall of screens fill with a jamming MTV video.  The lights dim. People start dancing.  Cell phones start ringing and --
young salesman		He kinda mesmerized me, see, and like Spock or something I visualized Seattle and the over and he wrote it down!  Said picking me was the same as him doing it.
southie		What kinda power is that?
reggie		Who fucking cares?  He's money.
jerry		Congratulations, Brandon... Or should I say John?  Either way it's amazing.  I must say I am impressed.  Letting salesmen make your picks?  That's balls.
brandon		  Best get in there and collect some of this, Jerry.  The way you're picking, you're gonna need some for a rainy day.
jerry		Keep talking, sugarmouth.  Must feel pretty good to be that plugged in.  You got a good streak going.  Well enjoy it while it lasts. The gambling Gods are a fickle bunch, sooooo easily offended.
walter		Here, get you teeth fixed.  There might be some other businesses you can make two mill in one weekend, but tell me, someone please tell me -- where else are you gonna have this much fun?
brandon		How much of that big stack's mine?
walter		A one with five zeros behind it.
brandon		...A 100 fucking thou?  On two million?
walter		You're working out of my shop.
brandon		I was thinking of ten percent.
walter		Really?  Is that what you were thinking?
brandon		I got you Novian.
walter		Nice job, now don't blow it by getting ahead of yourself.  I'm looking beyond the money.
brandon		You can afford to, you're holding it all.  C'mon, I only want what's fair, Walter.
walter		"Fair?"  Honey, you don't know what fair is.  What's fair is not giving you the money.  Now I'm only gonna say this once. If you want something from me more than a gazunheidt after a sneeze you have to do more than think about it.  Or ask for it. You gotta earn it.  You gotta fight for it.  You gotta rip it out of my fucking talons.  John Anthony would know that.  That's what he'd do.  As a matter of fact, next time you come with that shit, come as John Anthony.  'Cause from now on I'm not talking to you about money.
toni		The big winner.  How are you doing?
brandon		I'm winning... I'm winning...
walter		Dance with me.  Close, that's it.  I gotta dance with you more. Listen, I'm thinking of buying a plane.  Big one.  G-something. We can just get on it and go, you and me, anywhere in the world, any time we want.  There's a house for sale in the Bahamas with a runway right beside it.  Comes with its own 50-foot boat. Two for one.  What an investment.  Anything happens, you and Jules always have it.  Let's go down and check it out.  Next week, just us, barefoot in the sand.
toni		... Are you gambling again, Walter?
walter		What?  Oh, c'mon -- hell no.
toni		Look me in the eye and say it.
walter		I am not gambling.  Not now, not ever.  18 years clean.  That shit's over.
toni		It's never over, Walter.  You know that.
walter		Get a lie detector if you don't believe me.  Shoot me with truth serum.  Baby -- we just made two-million dollars.  I'm working miracles here.  Now can I enjoy a dance with my wife?  Huh? I swear, it's a shame you can't drink, we need something to kill that bug up your ass.
brandon		It's just like sex.  You start by massaging the numbers, very relaxed,
friend		  Nice job description.  BRANDON presses her below FRAME, naked ASIAN GIRL climbing on top as the sound of APPLAUSE is heard, building in volume and--
walter		Know what time it is?
walter		--Wrong.  It's time to press, my friend.  We're yanking out all the stops.  When you're winning -- you press.
walter		What are you doing?
brandon		I have a 10:30 tee time at Wingfoot with a client, that Howell guy.  Don't call me unless the lines change.
walter		The salmon are running!  You're staying right here and fielding calls.  You're not going off to play golf and have fun.
brandon		Fun?  Senor, you have obviously never played Wingfoot.
walter		Stop screwing around, you got a lot to do before this weekend.
brandon		I'm not asking you if I can leave, Walter -- I'm telling you that's how it is, understood?  You want my picks, hell I'll make 'em now.
walter		Whoa -- hold on -- slow down -- today's only Tuesday, you have all week.
brandon		I don't need it.
walter		Hey -- we're gonna be advising somewhere in the neighborhood of 20 million dollars this week.
brandon		Nice neighborhood.
walter		You're really gonna make your picks now?  No study?  No analysis? Just like that?
brandon		I'm in the zone, Walter.  Locked in.  You want my picks, I might as well do it now!
walter		... Okay, fine.  Take a break.  Go play golf.  We'll put the picks on ice and look 'em over tomorrow.
walter		Then the next day!
brandon		Where're you headed?
toni		Some of us have to work.
brandon		Come on, get in.  I'll give you a lift.
brandon		Some ride, huh?  Feel that?  Feel that?
toni		Slow down, Brandon.
brandon		Why?  This car was made to go fast.
toni		Not with me in it.
brandon		C'mon, Toni, loosen up.
toni		I stay busy.
brandon		That's not what I asked.
toni		Yes it is.
brandon		What do you do for you, Toni, for yourself.
toni		"What do I do for myself?"  If you drove past my salon and went two blocks down Prospect Street you would have found me 20 years ago with a needle in my arm.  I was a 5-bag a day junkie.  I would have sold Julia to get high.  Keeping it all on track, that's what I do for myself.
brandon		That's not living, Toni.  That's just maintaining.  You cashed in.
toni		What the hell does that mean?  Are we talking perfection here?
brandon		Well, nobody's perfect... except me last weekend going 14 and
toni		Yeah, that's living.
brandon		Hell yeah.  You oughta try it some time.
chris berman		-- Big loss for Washington, going down 24-12 in Miami.  Saint Louis upsets K.C., 34-14.  And another Sunday surprise, Philly
brandon		I'm gonna go work out.
walter		Sit down!  You're watching every game!  Every second of every minute of every game!  Don't even think of leaving!
walter		... How do you go 3 and 11?  Wanna know how -- you make Sunday's picks on Tuesday!  It rained in Cincinatti!  Two starting QBs didn't play!  You're a handicapper, not a psychic!
brandon		There's still Monday night and the parlay.
walter		Fuck Monday night!  Fuck the parlay!
brandon		I don't know.
walter		You fucked with me, right?  Joke's on me, right?  The money thing. Okay, I think we're on dangerous ground here but I'm giving you a bump, 10 percent.  Now what about Monday night's game? You want to look over that pick?  Because everyone's gonna double down to climb out of the fucking hole you put 'em in.
brandon		Monday night's fine.
walter		You'd bet your mother's house on it?
brandon		I don't bet.
walter		If you did?
brandon		I like the pick, Walter.
walter		On your mother's house or not?
brandon		With my mother in it.
girl		Oh my God -- Brandon!  BRANDON glances up, quickly goes back to watching the game.
brandon		  Uh-huh.  Heather  This is like such a concidence.  I live right around the corner. This is my neighborhood bar.
heather		  Earth to Brandon, you're blowing it.  The BARTENDER steps in front of the TV to deliver her drink -- BRANDON jumps from his seat so he can see -- flurry of action on the screen -- the game ends -- the final score flashes and--
brandon		Fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck!!!
brandon		Denny!  Hey -- yeah, I'm in a bar.... Of course in New York, I own this town.  What's going on -- you okay?... Tonight's game? You took my picks?  How much?...
quick cuts		-- A dozen rapid-fire kick-offs fill the SCREEN -- RECEIVERS catch passes, OTHERS drop them spectacularly -- RUNNING BACKS brilliantly juke tackles, score -- QUARTERBACKS are slammed from behind, stripped of the ball -- kicks miss goal posts by inches -- PLAYERS are carried off on stretchers -- footballs sail through RECEIVERS'S hands, their fingers clawing empty air -- scoreboards blink outcomes, stadium lights flare and --
walter		Helluva swing.  Great game.  Sport of kings, right?  Or is that horse racing?
brandon		What are you doing here?
walter		Southie told me where you were.
brandon		I had to get out.  Clear my head.
walter		You haven't seen the scores?
brandon		Nope.  That's how I wanted it.  Just make the picks and get the results later.
walter		Highest sales volume ever.  Take a guess.
brandon		I think we kicked ass.
walter		It was amazing.
brandon		I told you.  Last week was nothing.
walter		You're right, nothing compared to how much we lost today!
brandon		... What'd I go?
walter		I have an idea.  I give you a few glimpses of what happened here today and you take a stab.
brandon		Just give me the numbers, Walter.
walter		You don't like that game.  Too bad.  Woulda been fun.  Grown men crying on the phone.  Wives screaming in the background. Three salespeople quit 'cause they couldn't take the pressure!
brandon		Fuck!
walter		No.  When you lose 10 out of 12, fuck doesn't quite cover it. What would be more appropriate is something like "Holy Fucking Shit!" Or "My Fucking God."  Or "Jesus Fucking Christ!"
brandon		Enough.  I get the idea, Walter.
walter		You're right.  I mean 2 for 12 on our biggest volume weekend -- what the hell's left to say?  Except maybe keep the phone number and switch it over to a fucking suicide hotline!
walter		Tomorrow morning, Brandon!  Bright and early!  We start in all over again!  No getting off!  I'm gonna ride you until you're more sick of me than losing!  Turn it around and we avoid a lot of pain!
omit		Omit
brandon		Son of a bitch... What the fuck--
bodyguard		Mr. Novian wants to see you.  Now.
bodyguard		You tell him.
novian		I didn't recognize you without the suit, John.
brandon		This is my time off.  It's how I clear my head.  You want to talk, pick a time.
novian		Or should I call you Brandon?  Someone costs you 18 mill, you do some research.
brandon		I'm leaving.
novian		Feel that?  I hate the cold.  Winter's coming.  Water's getting rough.
brandon		What the fuck is this about?  If you don't like my picks, use someone else.
novian		Oh, I'm not using you again.  That's already decided.  And I can't get my money back.  It's gone.  No, I came for an apology.
novian		Look me in the eye and say you're sorry. Say it so as to make me believe you mean it.
brandon		You flew to New York for--
novian		--That's right.
brandon		... I'm sorry.
novian		I don't accept it.  Not good enough.  Try again.
brandon		I don't know what you want me to say.  I'm sorry.  I am.  I'm very sorry.
novian		Pathetic.
brandon		I am very, very sorry.  That's a lot of money.
novian		Not even close.
brandon		I'm sorry!
novian		This isn't going to work.  I'll have to get satisfaction somehow else.
brandon		Look, I'm not it -- I...  NOVIAN inches from BRANDON.  Unbuttons his coat.  Sound of a zipper.  BRANDON glances down, sees Novian reach into his fly. BRANDON jumps.  The BODYGUARD holds him.  NOVIAN comes close. BRANDON struggles, very unsure where this might be going and--
jerry		I scored you the new mikes, Walter.  No wires to mess with. What do you think?
walter		I'm busy.
jerry		Listen, I think I should lead off.  I have some really strong stuff.
walter		You got a good hole, Jerry.  Stay in it.
jerry		C'mon, I went 8 for 12 last weekend.  I'm hot.  I'm feeling it.
technician		60 seconds.
jerry		What am I, wood?
walter		You got one good weekend under your belt, don't push it.
jerry		One weekend?  The Sykes System revolutionized this industry.
walter		Take a hike.
jerry		What?
walter		You heard me.  You're fired.  Goodbye.
jerry		I'm not fired, you need me more than ever.
walter		Beat it, you cut-rate parasite!
jerry		In six years my worst weekend was never as bad as any of his last three weeks!
walter		Get out!  You don't work for me anymore!
jerry		What the hell are you doing, Walter?    C'mon, man -- it's me, Jerry.  These other guys come and go.
walter		  Not this one!  That's true talent!  I'm firing your ass 'cause you don't see it and I can't explain it to you!
jerry		Think what you're fucking doing!
walter		I am!  You couldn't pick your fucking nose without a computer! You're small!  You belong in a can!  Show some self-respect! It's over, Jerry -- leave!
walter		... Fuck him where he flosses.  Asshole doesn't understand I'm building an empire around you.  Finish the countdown, we got a big weekend to get to!  Let's go, chop chop!
toni		It's me, Brandon.  Can I come in?
brandon		No.  It's not a good time.  What do you need?
toni		I need to talk to you, it's important.
toni		You need to get out, Brandon.  You need to go.
brandon		I gotta pick a winner is what I gotta do.  I gotta get back on track.
toni		It won't matter.  You could go 100-and-0 and it won't be enough -- it'll never be enough.  He'll ride you into the ground.
brandon		I gotta figure this out.
toni		Please, Brandon.
brandon		I'll figure it out...
brandon voiceover		Alex, it's Brandon.  Hey, it's been awhile but I never got your number that night.  I was in the neighborhood so I thought I'd take a chance and stop by.
brandon		Man, you got a Doberman for a doorman.
alex		What are you doing here?
brandon		I came by to take you out for a late dinner and a couple of killer bottles of wine.  C'mon.  We'll go back to that place where we met.
alex		Are you out of your fucking mind?    I live in this building, asshole.  It's home.  I don't like creeps coming around unannounced.  Lurking around outside.
brandon		What the hell's gotten into you?  What about that night?
alex		Let me make this real clear so this shit doesn't happen again. You mean nothing to me.  Oh wait, I take that back -- you meant 5000 bucks.  Your friend set it up.
brandon		Hello.
brandon		Amir?
brandon		No, now listen to me -- we got a big weekend coming up, buddy --
amir		Still you talk like this.  Who the fuck are you, like this is some kind of game.  I was betting a few thousand a Sunday when I called you.  You pushed me.  Every call.  All the time with your talk... I lost $380,000 this weekend... I was going to get married... I had a life...
amir		No words now, huh?  No more money to squeeze so you shut up. How do you fucking live with yourself?
brandon		What?    Fuck him if he can't take a joke.  TAMMY puts the day's newspapers on his desk, leaves.  BRANDON glances down, something catches his eye.  BRANDON pulls a newspaper from the pile -- finds himself staring at a full-page ad for JOHN ANTHONY.  Big smile.  Copy advertising "The Million Dollar Man!" and --
brandon		I know what the problem is!  BRANDON freezes.  WALTER watches two MEN unload stacks of money from a briefcase, pile them on his desk.
brandon		I'll come back later.
walter		No!  C'mon in.  We're done here.  Right fellas?  All through? You want a bite before you go?  Something to drink?
brandon		Who were they?
walter		We need a bat light or something, you know a signal I can shoot up at the
brandon		Who were they?
walter		They're from the Salvation Army.  How the hell does someone go 1-for-8?  A fucking monkey tossing darts could do better!
brandon		What's with the money, Walter?
walter		1-for-fucking-8!
brandon		What happened to the two mill, all the other money?
walter		I was carrying twice that in red ink before you showed up.  The last few weeks I thought keep the pressure off.  He'll come around. Climb out on his own.  Now I figure fuck it!  Time to turn on the lights!  Let him see the toilet he's drowning us all in! Maybe that'll shake him up!  So what do you want to know?  I got three mortgages on this house, I'm gambling again and to cover my losses I just got a loan from a guy who works out of a bar on a 106th and Broadway!  All this -- everything you see around you --
brandon		You're betting my picks?
walter		You went 82 and 11!  You were picking 80 percent -- how could I fucking not!?  Trouble is I bet heavy after you went a hundred percent and rode you right into the fucking toilet!  One decent weekend and I would have been set for life!  One decent weekend!
walter		"I know what the problem is!"  That's it!  You came in with a big smile and said, "I know what the problem is!"
brandon		... I'm Brandon Lang, Walter.  Brandon's the one who played sports. Brandon's the one who can pick games.  I lost touch with him -- myself.  It wasn't an act, man.  I became John Anthony.  But he's not me.  If I go back to being Brandon--
walter		--You can pick again!  Of course!  All you gotta do is go back to being Brandon!  Talk like Brandon! Eat like Brandon!  Forget John Anthony!  Burn the suits!  It's all my fault.  I see that now.  I pushed you into something you weren't.  I took the golden goose and tried to turn it into a duck.  We're winding down the season.  There's only two games this weekend.  Two winners and two over/unders.  That's all we need.  You crunch the numbers, sprinkle in a little Brandon magic, we get the sales people burning up the phones and come Monday we go four for four going into the big game!  Right?  Huh?  Let's get
brandon		No thanks.  I'll stay here.  Eat light.
walter		You want anything shipped from home?  Your bed?  Clothes?  Porno collection?
brandon		No, I'm fine.
walter		Blow job?
brandon		Thanks anyway.  Maybe later...
walter		Because it's important.
brandon		Pressure doesn't help.
walter		God forgive me, you're an artist.  I fucked with that.  Two little winners and a couple of over/unders.  That's all we need.  You could phone it in.  Two's nothing.  Not for you.  Not for Brandon. Right, Brandon?  Isn't that right?
walter		These are the winners?
brandon		That's who I like.
walter		Brandon made these picks?
brandon		You're looking at him.
walter		Sure, Angel.  I need you to root for me.
julia		Why do we like the blue team?
walter		Because Brandon likes them.
dissolve to		 INT. WALTER'S OFFICE - LATER - NIGHT
brandon		...I'm finished.  I'm done.
walter		That's great.
brandon		I can't do this anymore, Walter.  I can't sleep at night.  I can't eat.
walter		You're not gonna sit there and tell me you're ending this because you have a little indigestion or some insomnia.
brandon		It's a lot more than that.
walter		I made it very clear before we started what the stakes were.
brandon		Walter, it's over.  What use could John Anthony be to you now? Only an idiot would follow him after the streak I've been on.
walter		Wrong!  Hot streaks go cold, cold streaks go hot.  Bettors will climb back aboard.
brandon		Who said anything about next year?
walter		Sports betting's year-round.
brandon		I'm not doing this next year.
walter		You made a career choice!  I bankrolled it!
toni vo		Let him go, Walter.
walter		Of course you stick up for him!
toni		Meaning what?
walter		Who's side are you on?
toni		I didn't realize I had to choose.
brandon		Bullshit!
toni		You can't own someone, Walter.
walter		I created the hottest sports tout this country's ever seen! I plugged him, took out full page ads, built a show around him, hooked him up with every major client I have and I will be goddamned if he's going to walk out the door and take all that with him! Why the hell am I even explaining this to you!  This is between me and him!  Get out!
brandon		Don't talk to her like that.
walter		I need you to tell me how to talk to my wife?  When I'm talking you'll shut your fucking toilet!
toni		  Leave.
walter's voice		Brandon... Brandon.
walter		Wake up.
brandon		What time is it?
walter		Five in the morning.  Listen, I gotta fly to Vegas to meet with some clients.  Hand holding thing.  Keep 'em on board for the final game.  Because you can do this thing, Brandon.  End of the season's the perfect place to turn this streak around.  I'll be back to you out to dinner.  Get you back in the groove.  9:30. Nobu. Gotta catch my flight.  See you tonight.  Look sharp. We're turning it around.
brandon		Hey, I didn't know you were coming.
toni		Walter was delayed, he's coming back in the morning.  Asked if I'd fill in.
toni		Julia did her ballet recital today.  God she was beautiful.
brandon		She is.
toni		I can't believe I'm here again.  I saw it coming.  I just... I just couldn't stop it.
brandon		Nobody could.
toni		He won't stop on his own.  He can't.
brandon		I gotta win one more game.
toni		You can't fix this, Brandon.
brandon		It's still early.  Come in for a while.
toni		I don't think so.
toni		Brandon--  BRANDON comes close, whispers something.  He unlocks the door. She hesitates before BRANDON takes her hand, leads her into his dark apartment and --
dissolve to		 EXT. WALTER AND TONI'S APARTMENT - DAY
walter		Look at that.  With the leaves and all.  This goes on my desk.
toni		Happy anniversary.  KNOCK at the door --  JULIA vo  I'll get it.  JULIA hands the CAMERA to WALTER.  VIDEO CAMERA view of JULIA and the puppy running to the door, opening it and --
julia		Brandon!
brandon		Hey darlin'.
brandon		Congratulations, I didn't know.  WALTER vo  Sit down.  I want you to be part of this.  Okay angel, give Mommy my gift.  WALTER aims the CAMERA as JULIA hands TONI a small gift box. TONI opens it, reveals a set of very expensive earrings.
brandon		I can't take this.
brandon		It's too much.
toni		They're for evening.
brandon		Turn it off.
technician's voice		60 seconds till we go live, Mr. Anthony!  BRANDON looks over.  The unfinished pick sheet lies crumpled by the toilet.  He smooths it.  Pulls a coin.
brandon		Heads, New York.  Tails Denver.  He flips the coin.  Palms it.  Heads.  BRANDON checks the box.
brandon		Heads, over.  Tails, under.  BRANDON flips again, lets the coin hit the floor, watches it spin, slowly come to a stop, drop to its side and --
technician		Ten seconds!
brandon		Wanna know about the picks?
walter		New York minus the two-and-a-half points and the over, what should I know?
brandon		I flipped a coin to decide.
technician		Five, four, three, two, one --
walter		Hello everybody and welcome to the big weekend!  John Anthony's just given me tremendous news about his assessment!  Let me say to all of you who've used our service and those of you thinking of using it for the first time -- never before in the history of this industry has an offer been made like the one I'm about to present to you now!  I am so confident of John Anthony's picks for this Sunday, so sure of the skills he's brought to bear and so anxious to get you on the phone and dialing the toll free number on your screen that for the first time in sports service history I will guarantee our picks this weekend!  What's that mean?  Tell us how much you're betting with your bookie.  You lose, we cover!  That's right!  Risk free!  Lock Of The Millenium! Now let's go to the oracle, God's gift -- John Anthony!
brandon		... Wow.  What an offer.  The phones'll be flooded.
walter		We're that sure!  John, rundown the pitfalls facing the average bettor.  I mean a game this huge, all the added dynamics, without your expertise most bettors might as well just... flip a coin, am I right?
brandon		  That's right, Walter!  Last game of the year ladies and gentlemen! Come Sunday you're either ending the season a winner or a loser! It's crunch time!  The last action on the way out the door! And I am absolutely, 1000-percent sure that I, John Anthony, will end the season ahead of the game!
brandon		You can't guarantee they'll win!  It's insane!
walter		You think?  Well I say if you can flip a coin to pick, I can guarantee the game!
brandon		What if you lose?
walter		Fuck it, I'm ruined anyway.
brandon		At least cap it out!
brandon		I don't know what you're talking about.
walter		I think you do.  The best part of the best drug in the world isn't the high.
herbie		Our reputation's the guarantee!  28 years in the business, we're not going anywhere!  Bet this game big!
walter		That's it!  No more calls!  Kill the phones!  Kill 'em now -- right now!
toni		  Look at him.  Dead man walking, should be getting last rites. Hours away from losing everything, but Walter -- he's having the time of his life.
brandon		Maybe he thinks he already did lose everything.  WALL OF TVS, the ball's kicked and the game begins -- the SALESROOM explodes in cheers after a good play -- PLAYERS collide -- a fumble bounces across the field -- SALESMEN clamber atop desks for a better view -- WALTER in agony after an interception, a moment later elated when a flag brings the play back -- the score board FILLS FRAME, New York trails 14/7 at the half and --
walter		Hold onto that coin you flipped.  Game keeps up like this I'll have to borrow it.
brandon		It's not over yet, Walter.  I wouldn't change my bet.
walter		Where the hell's Brandon?
walter		You're missing the game!  We're back in it!  A New York touchdown and we win both bets!
walter		... He left.
toni		I know.
walter		And you didn't you tell me?
toni		He asked me not to.
walter		Just like that?  No goodbye?
toni		I'm sure it's in the letter.
walter		I'm sure it is... I wonder what's not in here?
toni		What do you mean?
walter		What do you mean, what do I mean?  When it comes to Brandon you seem to have all the answers.
toni		He had enough.  He wanted his life back.
walter		He said that to you?
toni		Yeah, loud and clear, by leaving.
walter		I think it's something else.
toni		Yeah, tell me.
walter		You know.
toni		No.
walter		You have no idea, huh?
toni		You're missing the game.
walter		No I'm not.  This is the game.
walter		Something was bothering him.  I mean sure, maybe he was homesick. Or I was thinking maybe he had such, you know, deep feelings for me he couldn't face saying goodbye.  What a minute.  I just
walter		Do you deny it?
toni		Do I have to?
walter		I know you did!
toni		Really?  Another "lock of the year?"
walter		I saw you, Toni!  I saw you go into his room that night!  This room!  With him!  I never went to Vegas!
toni		You mean you lied to me about the trip!
walter		Don't talk to me about lying!
toni		I guess you had the whole thing planned?
walter		Don't make this about me!
toni		Put me out there on a tray!
walter		Yeah, I put the tray out there -- but you didn't have to shove an apple in your mouth and jump on it!  On him!
walter		Admit it!
toni		You played me!
walter		You're damn right I did!
toni		... Brandon was right.  Son of a bitch!
walter		You don't deny it!
toni		Best pick he ever made.
walter		What the hell are you talking about?
toni		You were gambling with me that night, Walter.  Brandon knew it. Knew you.  He told me he was sure you were watching somehow. So he asked me in to spend the night, put on a show.  I didn't believe him -- I mean after all we've been through -- but I figured what the hell.
toni		And now I find out you've been thinking ever since then that we did sleep together?  Living with it like that?  Looking at me like that?  You sick fuck!  You wanted to lose!  You set us up!  Like I was something you just toss on the table!  Only we booked your bet, Walter!
brandon		It's me.
brandon's dad		Hello, Brandon?
brandon		Hey, hey the big winner.  What's going on?
brandon's dad		Nothing much... the usual.
brandon		C'mon, I know it's rough, it's supposed to be.  A friend turned me on to the place.  She said it's the best.
brandon's dad		Where are you headed?
brandon		I don't know, but I got an airport full of planes to choose from.
brandon's dad		Does your mom know I'm in rehab?
brandon		Yeah, I told her.
brandon's dad		Great pick on New York.  It's like I always said, you don't bet quarterbacks and receivers--
brandon		  --You bet the offensive line.  I remember.  That's exactly what I was thinking about, pop.
brandon's dad		  No kidding!  Wow.  Helluva game, huh?  Boy, that opening drive was a beaut, the way they drove like that, six first downs -- you shoulda seen me, Brandon -- I'm screaming at the tv...
dissolve to		ext. Elementary school playground - day  A dozen 9-year-old PEE-WEE FOOTBALL PLAYERS, barely able to move in over-sized gear, are lined for practice.  BRANDON, coach's whistle, faces them.
brandon		We're up against a tough team today, toughest on our schedule. But you're ready for it.  You're prepared.  Most important I want you to go out there and have some fun.  Enjoy yourselves. Keep it loose.  Because you can't make me any more proud of you than I already am.  Team cheer, bring it in --
brandon		Go get 'em!
teammate		You really think we can win today, Coach?
brandon		... I'd bet on it.
fade out		THE END
****Dialogues from script :U_Turn.txt****

bobby		Get off the goddamn road!
bobby		Fuck you!
bobby		No!...Not now!...Shit!
bobby		Oh shit!
bobby		You Harlin?
darrell		Nope.  Darrell.
bobby		Harlin around?
darrell		He's up at the Look Out.
bobby		Will he be back soon?
darrell		Doubt it.  He's dead.  The Look Out's a cemetery.
bobby		You own this place?
darrell		Yep.
bobby		Then why do you call it Harlin's?
darrell		'Cause Harlin used to own it.
bobby		But he's dead.
darrell		So?
bobby		You want to take a look at my car?  I think the radiator hose is--
darrell		Damn.  Gonna be another hot one today. Sometimes I don't even want to get out of bed. Course don't want to get out for the cold one's neither.  Then of course the clouds come in...
bobby		Look, Harlin, I've got places to be.
darrell		Darrell--
bobby		OK. Darrell... Could you just take a look at my radiator hose.  It's busted.
bobby		So?
darrell		It's your radiator hose.  It's busted.
bobby		I know it's busted.  What did I just tell you?
darrell		Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
bobby		If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time.  Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
darrell		Somewhere else?  Mister, somewhere else is fifty miles from here. Only other gas station down in town closed 3 years ago when the mine got shut...
bobby		Okay, I'm stuck.  You happy?  Now can you fix it, or not?
darrell		Yeah, I can fix it.
bobby		Great!
darrell		Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
bobby		How much time?
darrell		Time.
darrell		Twenty-after-ten.
bobby		Jesus.  Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already.
darrell		Ninety-two.  Course half hour from now might be seventy-two. These clouds move around a lot.
darrell		What happened to your hand?
bobby		Accident.
darrell		You got to be more careful. Hands is important.  Let me show you something. When I was a kid, now I don't know if you can still see it, but I gashed my fingers in a lawnmower.
bobby		I'm very interested in this but is there someplace...
darrell		Diner up a piece.  Not much, but us simple folk like it.
bobby		I'll be back in a couple of hours.  And be careful with her, will you?
darrell		Just a car.
bobby		It's not just a car. It's a sixty-four and half Mustang convertible. That's the difference between you and me, and why you live here and I'm just passing through.
bobby		Now do you mind? I got to get some stuff out of the trunk.
blind man		Hey!  You there!
bobby		You want something, old man?
blind man		Don't call me old man.  Ain't you got no respect, boy?
bobby		You want something?
blind man		Yeah I want something.  I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
bobby		You can't do that yourself?
blind man		Hell no, I can't do that myself.  I'm blind.  Can't you see that?
bobby		I'm sorry, I didn't--
blind man		What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on?  Sunnin' myself?
bobby		I don't know.  I thought you were keeping the sun out of your eyes.
blind man		I ain't got no eyes.  You want to see?
bobby		Christ no!
blind man		Lost my eyes in Vyee-et-nam.  Lost them fighting the commies.  Fought the war and lost my eyes fightin' the commies just so you can come around here and make fun of me.
bobby		I said I was sorry.
blind man		Don't be sorry.  Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
bobby		Yeah, sure.  You got change?
blind man		Change?  You want my change?  I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
bobby		All right, old man.  Christ.
blind man		Get me a Dr. Peppa!  I don't want no Colas. Colas ain't nothing but flavored water.
blind man		Don't forget to open it for me.  I can't be opening my own bottle.
bobby		Christ!
blind man		A little for Mother Earth. I'm about fifty percent Indian, you know. To all our relations.
blind man		Ah!  Just what I needed!  Want some?
bobby		I'll pass.
bobby		I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick.
blind man		That's 'cause he's dead.
bobby		Oh, Jesus.
blind man		I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was you?
bobby		What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
blind man		He's only just dead.  What was I supposed to do with him?  I can't take him away anywhere.  And nobody wants to take him for me.  Do you?
bobby		Hell no!
blind man		See.  Ain't nothing I can do but keep him here beside me.  That's where he belongs anyways.  Me and Jesse, that's my dog, not anymore, but me and Jesse we been pals since the war when I lost my eyes.  He was just a pup then... a companion that's loyal, that'll keep coming back to you no matter how much you kick him...I miss him.  I'll see ya later, unless I come across something worse.
bobby		Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
grace		I'm just going to my car?
bobby		That's right on my way.
grace		My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
bobby		My name is Bobby.  Now I'm not a stranger anymore.  See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
grace		Do you have to call me that?
bobby		I don't know your real name.
grace		Maybe I don't want you to.
bobby		Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
grace		You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
bobby		I like that about me, beautiful.
grace		It's Grace.
bobby		May I carry your package, Grace?
bobby		Jesus.
grace		You sure you can manage?
bobby		I got it.
grace		Do you want me to carry your pack for you?
bobby		No!
bobby		No, I've got it.
grace		What happened to your hand?
bobby		Accident.
grace		You should be more careful.
grace		It's very nice of you to help me.  That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
bobby		No trouble at all, really.
bobby		Wasn't nothing.
grace		Oh, this isn't my car.  It's down a ways. I should have parked closer.  I just didn't think it would be so heavy.  I could drive up.
bobby		That's all right.  I got it.
grace		It's just new drapes and curtain rods.  If I had known it was going to be so heavy I would have had them delivered up to the house.
grace		I just got tired of looking at the old drapes. My mother made them. Had them long as I can remember. You ever seen something and just knew you had to have it?
grace		'Course they cost a little more than I should really be spending.  But, damn it, I don't hardly ever do anything nice for myself.  I deserve nice things.
grace		This is it.
grace		Thank you, Bobby.
bobby		You're welcome, Grace.
grace		You're not from around here, are you?
bobby		Why you say that?  Just because I help a lady with her package?
grace		You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
bobby		I just drove in this morning.
grace		Drove into Superior?  What for?
bobby		Didn't have a choice.  My car overheated up the road.
grace		You're lucky you didn't break down in the desert.  Day like today, you'd be dead in no time. When you leaving?
bobby		Not until my car's fixed.  I don't know how long that's going to take.
grace		And here I've made you all hot and sweaty.
sheriff		Morning Grace.
grace		Morning Sheriff. Got my drapes.
sheriff		Well it's about time. Looks like you found yourself a helper too.
grace		Well, he offered, and I just couldn't refuse. His car overheated.
sheriff		Oh?
bobby		Morning, officer.
sheriff		Son.  Little excitement out at the reservation this morning. Wayne and Dale Elkhart were up drinking all night and then Wayne starts chasing Dale around the desert with his shotgun. BIA handled it. I went by for backup.
grace		Anybody hurt?
sheriff		Hell, no. That Wayne can't shoot when he's sober, much less drunk. He's lucky he didn't kill his own danged self.  Well, anyhow, you stay cool. Nice meeting you, son.
bobby		Same here, officer.
grace		Well, I guess I could use some help getting this box into the house.  Not far. You could shower, get something cool to drink.
bobby		Well, I could use something cool.
grace		Where you coming from?
bobby		All over.  Chicago, Houston, Detroit.  Just lately Dallas.
grace		You've been around.
bobby		I guess I've got wander in my blood.
grace		Where you headed?
bobby		I don't know.  I have to make a stop in Vegas.  Business to finish.  Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara.  I might be able to pick up some action there.
grace		So, what is it you do, Mister...?
bobby		Cooper. Bobby Cooper. Oh you know, whatever pays best. Little bartending, used to teach tennis, played a little competition ... .
grace		I never played tennis. You just travel around Bobby-- no direction, no steady work.  You must like taking chances.
bobby		If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
grace		What happens when you lose?
bobby		I pack up and go somewhere else.
bobby		I couldn't stay in this place.  I wouldn't. I'd just pick up, do whatever I had to do, and get out.
grace		Sometimes I feel the exact same way.
bobby		Look, I'll get the money! You don't want to do this!
grace		Thought you might like a refill on your lemonade.
bobby		That's good.  Cools you right off.  I saw you watching me.
grace		I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to.
bobby		I didn't say it bothered me.
grace		Did you like it; me watching you?
bobby		I guess.  I've got an ego same as any man.
grace		Good, 'cause I liked what I saw.
bobby		Nice place.
grace		Thank you.
bobby		Who's that, your father?
grace		No. Not really.
bobby		Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
grace		I guess it must.
bobby		What do you do anyway?
grace		A little of this, a little of that.  Mostly I tell fortunes.
bobby		Where'd you learn to do that?
grace		From my father.  He was the tribe's shaman.
bobby		A medicine man?
grace		Those are white words, not ours.
bobby		Nice house for a shaman's daughter.  You must be good.
grace		Come here.
grace		There's something in your past; something you want to keep hidden.  There's a pain. Something ... someone you can't forget. And there is something you want very badly. It seems very far away to you, but you are determined, and you will do what you must to get it.
bobby		My face tell you all that?
grace		It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want.  What is it you want?
bobby		The same thing you do.
grace		Really?  I want to hang drapes.
grace		Hold me.
grace		Tighter.  I won't break. You know girls are a lot tougher than men think.
grace		There.  All done.  Lift me down.
bobby		What?
grace		Lift me down.
grace		You can let go of me now. I'm safe. How do they look?
bobby		Like you.
grace		Beautiful?
grace		I like them.  I was sick of looking at this room.  I think they add a little life.
bobby		Nothing like a little liveliness.
grace		No more drapes to hang.  Now what should we do?
bobby		I have an idea.
grace		And what would that be?
bobby		All right, Grace.  No more games.
bobby		You flirt with me, then you run cold.  You lead me on, then slap me down.  I don't go for being jerked around.
grace		Really?  And what game did you want to play?  You carry my box for me, and I fall into bed with you?
bobby		I think I can find my own way back to into town.
grace		Maybe I like to find out about a man first. Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
bobby		I'm just flesh and blood, baby.  That and a few memories of bad women; just like most guys.  But you already know that.  You read my mind, remember? Thanks for the lemonade.
grace		You never did answer my question.
bobby		Still playing?
grace		That's not an answer.  What is it you want?
bobby		You know what I want.
grace		Maybe I just want to hear you say it.
jake		Who the hell is this!?
bobby		Who the hell are you?
jake		I'm her husband.
jake		Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in half.
bobby		Easy, chief. I... I was helping your wife. I met her in town.  She needed a hand with her drapes.  That's all.
jake		Didn't much look like you were hanging drapes.
bobby		I swear to you that's all that happened.  I haven't so much as set foot in your bedroom.
jake		A lot that means.
bobby		Grace, tell him.
bobby		Damn it, Grace!  Tell him.
jake		Oh yeah, and I suppose you didn't have anything to do with it Grace, he just wandered up here by hisself. I got a mind to put you over my knee and paddle your ass raw!
jake		Where you going!
jake		You can't just walk in here and walk out, you sonufabitch! I'm gonna tear you a new asshole!
bobby		You broke my nose!
jake		It ain't broke.
bobby		Goddamn it! I'm... you're lucky I don't sue you.
bobby		You people are crazy!
bobby		Fuckin' shithole!
bobby		What the fuck do you want?
jake		I'll give you a lift, son. Too hot to be walking... People die out here, y'know.
jake		Aw, you're not still upset about that love tap, are you? If I meant you real trouble, I'd have given it to you by now. Get in, lad. Come on. Get in.
jake		After you huffed off, Grace lied so bad, I got so pissed off, I pulled down her pants to paddle her ass raw and finger-fucked it instead. Sorry I lost my cool like that. It's a funny thing, women.
bobby		Yeah...
jake		Say, what happened to your hand?
bobby		Accident.
jake		You've got to be--
bobby		Yeah, I know.  More careful.
jake		I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna.
bobby		That's a solid name.
jake		I'm a solid man.
bobby		Bobby Cooper.
jake		"Bobby Cooper." What brings you to Superior, Coop?
bobby		An overheated car.
jake		Oh? Darrell taking good care of you?
bobby		Darrell's a moron.
bobby		California...
jake		Live there?
bobby		Got work.  I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him.
jake		You a sailor man?  That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away.  A man could pretty well disappear like that.  Just sail away until all he was was a memory.  I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
bobby		I hope so.  Listen, McKenna about your wife:  If I had known she was married--
jake		It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it?  Not a wit.  Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
bobby		Wait a second--
jake		Ah, I can smell it on you.
bobby		Hey!
jake		That's the sweat of a man who hasn't an honest bone in his body.  Don't be offended, lad.  A man who's got no ethics is a free man.  I envy that.  Beside, how can I blame you?  That Grace sure has a mind of her own, and a body to match, don't she?  Eh?
jake		She does at that.  I knew when I married her she was a free spirit.  A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect?  But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her.  What are you to do, eh? Women.
bobby		Can't live with them, and you can't shoot 'em.
jake		"You can't shoot 'em!" I like that.  I bet she led you on good, didn't she?  Taking you up to the house to hang drapes. Oh that's a good one. Bet she had you hard as a rock wiggling her ass in your face.  I bet you just wanted to pull down her pants and hog her out. Then me busting in like some wild bear. Ha! Bet you had a fire going under you.
bobby		Like you don't know.
jake		Mad like a dog in heat, I bet you were.  I can tell you got a temper on you.
jake		Bet you just wanted to snap her neck right then, didn't you?  Bet you just wanted to kill her.
jake		Would you?
bobby		Would I what?
jake		Would you kill her?
jake		Because I'm sick and tired of her little games.  Because you could do it and drift away on your boat and no one would ever see you again.  Because I've got a fifty-thousand dollar life insurance policy on her, and I would be more than happy to give the man who does her in a good chunk of it.
bobby		I've done a few things but I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
jake		How do you know if you've never tried?
bobby		This is a joke, right?  You just want to rattle me.  Right?
jake		That's right.  Nothing but a joke.  That's all.
jake		Enjoy your stay, lad.
bobby		Who are these people?
bobby		Got any cold soda?
woman		Eh?
bobby		Soda.  You got any soda?
woman		Hablar slowly, por favor.  My ingles no es bien.
bobby		Soda.  You know.
woman		Oh.  Something to eat.  Si.
bobby		Not eat.  Drink.  What the fuck is drink in Spanish ... uh, agua?
biker		That's right, lady.  Keep it in you and nobody gets hurt.  That goes for you too, stud.  Gimmie the money.  Now!
woman		Eh?
second biker		The dinero, Senora.  Hand it over.
biker		That's it?  Lady, I got kids to put through school.
woman		Es all I have.
biker		Okay, pal.  Whatcha got? Give it, now.
biker		Better...you're getting tasty. Now toss the bag, sweetie.
bobby		It's just books.
biker		I'm a reader. Toss it.
biker		How touching...I like family values. Give it to me.
bobby		No.
biker		No?
second biker		Hey man, forget it. Come on.
biker		No?
woman		Senor, give him the bag.
biker		That's all right. He doesn't want to give me the bag...
second biker		He's fucking with you man. Shoot him.
second biker		Let's go, man.
biker		A little extra never hurt, Benji, would you just relax.
woman		No!  No! My wedding ring.
biker		Now we go.
woman		You go to El Diablo!
second biker		Bugger! You bitch!
woman		I call the sheriff.
bobby		No! No police.
woman		A hundred dollars? No police?
bobby		No police until I leave.
bobby		Hey.
darrell		Hey, your ... what the hell happened to you?
bobby		Nothing.
darrell		Don't look like nothing.
bobby		Just banged my head.  It was an accident.
darrell		Another accident?  You got to be more careful.
bobby		What the hell happened to my car?
darrell		Bottom hose was shot too.  Rotted clear through. Had to put a new one in. Runs like a dream now.
darrell		Well ... you got your parts, you got your labour ... let's call it a hundred-fifty bucks.
bobby		How much!?
darrell		Hundred-fifty.
bobby		To replace a goddamn radiator hose!?
darrell		A goddamn radiator hose in a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang.  You know how long it took me to find that hose?
bobby		About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
darrell		Actually, it's been about three hours. You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy.  What you expect but fancy damn prices?
bobby		That's a Ford, not a Ferrari.  You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
darrell		"That's not just a Ford, that's a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang."
bobby		What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
darrell		I don't know, but "it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through."  Now you owe me a hundred-fifty dollars.
bobby		It might as well be fifteen-hundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
darrell		Then you ain't gonna have the car.
bobby		Listen, man.  I got rolled half an hour ago for everything I had.
bobby		I've got five...six dollars.
darrell		Then you're only a hundred-forty-five in the hole.  You can keep that dollar. Now why don't you just take your American Express Gold Card, and call that guy with the big schnooz on TV and have him send you the money lickity split.
bobby		I don't have a goddamn credit card.
darrell		Now that's too bad.  I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you're gonna have to work this one off.
bobby		Look, I got a Movado.  It's worth at least seven, eight hundred. You could sell it for that.
bobby		You don't need numbers.  That's why it's expensive.  Look at the gold.
darrell		...got no day, got no date.  Probably ain't worth a duck's fart .
bobby		You son of a bitch! I'll have my lawyers shut you down.
darrell		You ain't got no credit card but you got a lawyer. Sweet talk me all you want.  Didn't you read the sign? It says...
bobby		What sign? Fuck the sign. I want my car.
darrell		I want my hundred and forty-five dollars.
ed		One-hundred-thirteen degrees.  That was back in July of forty-seven. That afternoon it dropped down to forty three! True story.
boyd		One time last year I remember it went from 98 to 23 same day. Wind, black clouds come out like...
bobby		You got a beer?
flo		What kind?
bobby		Beck's.
flo		No Beck's. A-1, Coors...
bobby		Heineken?
flo		No, we ain't got no Heineken.  We got Miller.
bobby		Genuine Draft?
flo		No.  Just plain ol' Miller. Now you can fuckin' take it or you can fuckin' leave it.
bobby		I'll fuckin' take it. To go.
flo		I'll be right back with that beer.
bobby		...and a waitress named Flo.  Christ.
bobby		Fucking cat.
jenny		Hey, Mister.  You gotta quarter for the juke?
bobby		What?
jenny		I wanna play a song on the juke.  You got a quarter?
jenny		What happened to your hand?
bobby		I cut it shaving; I know, I gotta be more careful.
jenny		Got any requests?
bobby		That country shit all sounds the same to me.
jenny		How about I pick one out for you?
jenny		You like Patsy Cline?  I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
bobby		Cause she's dead.
jenny		Gee, that's sad.  Don't that make you sad?
bobby		I've had time to get over it.
jenny		You're not from around here, are you? Where you from?
bobby		Oz.
jenny		You ain't from Oz.  Oz is in that movie.
bobby		You're too quick for me.
toby		No....No....No I'm seeing but I'm not believin'...Stop the wedding.  This can't be. Hey!  What are you doing with my girl?
toby		I axed you a question.
jenny		Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing.  We was just talking.
toby		You shut your mouth, girl, and get back over to our table.  Now, I'm not going to axe you again, Mister.  What were you doing with my girl?
bobby		I wasn't doing anything.
toby		That's not the way it looked to me.  Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her.
bobby		Make time?  Is everybody in this town on drugs?
jenny		Honest, Toby.  I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox.
toby		Stay out of this, Jenny.  We got man's business to take care of. I ain't never taken no drugs, mister, and ...
bobby		Then maybe you should've. Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
toby		You expect me to believe that?
bobby		I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
toby		Mister, I'm calling you out.
bobby		What?  You want to fight?  Over her?
flo		Toby, you go finish your soda and leave the man alone.
bobby		Let's see...they're not very imaginative?
toby		'Cause I'm just like dynamite.  And when I go off, somebody gets hurt.
bobby		Fine.  I was making time with your girl. Now I'm scared to death and I learned my lesson. Now can you go away?
toby		Not before I settle with you, chickenshit!
bobby		Christ, I don't believe this!
toby		Stand up.
bobby		I wasn't hitting on your girl!
toby		Stand up, Mister, or I'll beat you where you sit.
flo		Toby, you stop it now! Can't you see he's got a hurt hand?
toby		Don't you never mind, Flo.  This is gonna be over real quick.
toby		You're lucky, Mister.  Don't think it's over.  I called you out and I'm gonna see this through.  You hear me?  Come on, girl.  I got half a mind to make you walk home.
flo		My lord, that little baby of yours Virgil, has gotten cuter'n a bunny's nose.
sheriff		What was that all about?
flo		You know how that Toby is.  Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
sheriff		More like Jenny is after every man she sees.
ed		How's it with you, Sheriff?
sheriff		Already started out bad.  Couple of bikers from out of town tried to knock over Jamilla's grocery store this morning. It was a real shootout.
boyd		What happened?
sheriff		The old witch killed 'em both.
ed		Holy shit!
flo		Poor thing.  Is she all right?
sheriff		Sure, when the sons of bitches tried to steal her wedding ring. That's when she started shooting.  Can't blame her.  The ring was all Carlos left her when he died. Store's a mess.
boyd		It's the desert.  That's what it is.  The desert makes everybody crazy.  Ain't that right, Sheriff?  People go crazy out here.
ed		Come on, Boyd.  I've got to make tracks. That yogurt's got to make Santa Fe before it spoils.
boyd		Dr. Pepper don't have that problem.
flo		I can't open off-sale for you, sugar.
flo		Let me get your change.
sheriff		Flo, I'm just gonna help myself to a refill on the coffee.
flo		You be careful now, Virgil.
sheriff		Son of a bitch!
flo		Virgil!  Now look at what you done!  Are you all right?
sheriff		I think I burned my gun hand!
flo		 It'd serve you right, you asshole.  Put it under some cold water. Joe, run get a mop and clean this fuckin' mess up.
flo		Shasta!  Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that?  Sorry about that, mister.  Let's see, you want $3.25.  You try to have a nice day now, would you?
bobby		Sure, I'll try.
bobby		Cici?  Cici, it's Bobby...Bobby Cooper...Yeah, look, I know it's been a while, but I'm kind of in a jam...yeah...One-hundred-fifty dollars...That's a lie. I called you on your birthday..Two years ago...I can't help it if you didn't get the message. Cici, honey, I don't want to argue. I need you to wire me the money...Because they're fucking going to KILL ME!  I didn't steal your CD's...Yeah, well where's my Mr. Coffee. Cici...Cici...
bobby		Bitch. Cunt.
bobby		73-11, this is Pluto. What's the line on Dallas?
gambler's voice		Pluto. Fucking deadbeat. We head about you. You owe "the commie" 13 dimes, why you tryin' to get in my office? Lose this fuckin' number.
bobby		Mike...Mike...you asshole.
gambler's voice		Mike who? 
sergei		Da?
sergei		Mr. Arkady, deadbeat Cooper's calling.
sergei		He's calling collect.
bobby		I know, Mr. Arkadin. I know. I was on my way to you, it's just ... what a day I've had. I know I'm coming up with a highly improbable story, and I know you're not going to believe this, but this ...is... what happened. I had the money, I swear I had it. I was on my way to Vegas when my car breaks down in the middle of nowhere.
bobby		And that's not the half of it, Mr. Arkadin...
bobby		Right, Mr. Arkady. And that's not the half of it. I got your money, and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then... well, it gets robbed!
bobby		No. Two of them. Two robbers. And they both get nailed... get shot by the old lady.
bobby		With a shotgun!  She kills both of 'em, and... and the money in my bag gets all shredded to bloody pieces. Not one bill is left alive.  I mean, what are the odds?
bobby		Mr. Arkady, honest, I ad to beat it outta there before the cops showed. So now I don't have a cent to my name. I can't even get my car out of the garage.  I tell you, Mister...   So, I was wondering if you could wire me a hundred fifty-dollars so I could get my car out of this garage, see?  The bus depot here has a Western Union thing.  And of course I'll pay it back with the rest of the money.
bobby		But which I can get. No problem. Look, I can sell my car in Vegas. Blue book it's worth 16 at least. I just need the 150, uh...
bobby		Shit I'm sorry!...you can't believe the strain I'm under. I'm just under a lot of strain here.
sofia		Finger? What are you, a faggot? In my country a man don't pay we cut off his head.
sergei		Da.
bobby		Hello?
bobby		Yeah.
bobby		Goddamn rat's ass fuck! Shit! Damn! Damn! Damn!
bobby		Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! I hate this fuckin' town! I hate it! Do you hear me?  Get me outta here, please.  I gotta get out of this place.
jake		What can I do for you, lad?
bobby		I was hoping we could talk.
jake		Talk?  About what?
bobby		About things.  About your wife.
jake		Sweet Grace?  What about her?
bobby		About what you said this morning.
bobby		You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife.  Fifty-thousand dollars.
jake		I do.
bobby		You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
jake		I did?
bobby		Don't play simple with me, Jake. You're a betting man. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
jake		Boy I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
bobby		I'm not rambling.
jake		You're talking like a madman.
bobby		Well then, I guess that qualifies me for citizenship in this town. You're the one brought it up. This morning. In your car.
jake		Oh, that was just loose talk. Husband gettin' pissed off.  I don't want anybody dead.
bobby		Bullshit.  You wanted me to kill her.
jake		A man doesn't always mean the things he says.
bobby		You meant it.
jake		What makes you say that?
bobby		Because you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
jake		And what does that make you?
bobby		The slimy bastard who's going to do it for you...  You're a jealous man Jake. If you can't have Grace to yourself...well, you're not the sharing kind.
jake		Well, I guess I have what you call a love-hate relationship with Grace.
bobby		You love her, but you hate her?
jake		No, I hate loving her. I hate the kind of person she is. I hate having to tolerate the little "games" she plays. Like fucking half of the town behind my back and laughing at me. The bitch. She loved to play. She wants me to hit her and when I hit her she likes it. She tortures me. But she's family. She's my little girl. My baby. I couldn't stand to watch her eyes roll back in her head as she sucks her last breath, or to see her pretty pink brains spill from her skull. No. Not me. But you? You got the killing in you, boy...How much you want?
bobby		Make it twenty.
bobby		How much could you get?
jake		Maybe ... ten-thousand.  And that's a maybe.
bobby		I need thirteen.
jake		That's a bit much.
bobby		We're not talking about buying a car Jake. We're talking about killing your wife. It's thirteen, or it's nothing.
jake		You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
bobby		I'm not your boy.  I don't like you.  I got no choice but to do business with you. Let's just call this a nasty little marriage of convenience.
jake		Don't say that.  I had a marriage of convenience with Grace, and look where that's lead...  Well, looks like we got ourselves a contract.
jake		If you can't trust the man you've hired to kill your wife ...? The thing is it's got to look like an accident; that's the thing. If it doesn't, then it's no good.  I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
bobby		How do you want it?
jake		How the hell should I know?  I've never had a wife killed before. Jesus Christ! You want this job, you don't know how to do this? I guess I should have hired a professional.
bobby		You want to do this yourself?  I don't have to do this, you know.
jake		Be quiet, boy.  I got to figure this thing. I'm thinking. It can't be done at the house. It should be...
bobby		Come to think of it, how 'bout some money upfront?
jake		Oh yeah sure. Why don't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I'm at it. I know you...  This is what you do:  Go to the house to see her.
bobby		 And tell her what?
bobby		I know you're not surprised I'm back here, cause you can read my mind and all.
bobby		Yeah, well I said I was an idiot. Whatta you say we get out of here, take a drive somewhere, talk...
grace		How do you know he's still not here?
bobby		Guys like me take those chances. Let's go.
bobby		Are there snakes out here?
grace		They hear you comin'.  They won't bother you. Just don't sneak up on 'em.
bobby		Doesn't the isolation bother you?
grace		Yeah, but I like the sun.  I grew up on a reservation.  The sun, the desert; they like a religion to us.  Jake's the same way.  He loves the desert.  I guess we're alike that way.  That's about the only way.
bobby		You love him?
grace		No.
bobby		Did you ever?
grace		Depends on what you call love. I grew up on a reservation. A patch of desert in the middle of nowhere. That's where they stick Indians, Bobby. That's where they leave us to die. My brother killed himself when he was 19 cause he couldn't take it anymore. There's no hope there... Jake was my ticket out. Mom and me.
bobby		Is that why you're with him?
grace		I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line. I wanted him. I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him. Is that love?
bobby		I'm guessing no.
grace		Yeah, I guess you're right.
bobby		I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
grace		I'm still here, aren't I?  See this?
bobby		You could leave him.
grace		I don't know how.
bobby		Walk away.
grace		It's not that easy.  Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please.  I can't. I don't want to be alone.  I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
bobby		You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
grace		Is that so bad?  It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy.  For awhile, anyway. I mean, I would ... do things for him.  I guess I'm no good that way.  I guess I tried to sucker you along like that.  Do you hate me for it?  I wouldn't blame you if you did.  But maybe it's like you said: You just got to do whatever it takes to get out.
grace		I wish I was a bird.  I know it's stupid. Every child says that.  When I was growing up some of the old ones on the reservation believed people could actually change into animals.  I wish I could.
grace		Hate's a funny thing.  Right now I bet you don't know if you want to kill me, or fuck me.
grace		No...Stop!  I can't!
bobby		What's the matter?...Grace?
grace		Nothing.
bobby		Don't feel like nothing.
grace		Get out of town, Bobby, as quick as you can.
bobby		Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women.  You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
grace		You'd never understand.
bobby		Try me.
grace		It's just such a mess. With Jake I mean...
bobby		Nothing I understand better than a mess.
bobby		You mean the Shaman?
grace		He was a Shaman...in the mine. We had nothin' after he died. Jake took us in, gave us a little money. He used to call me his "little halfbreed"... He kept Mom on the side y'know, cause he was married someplace else. He had kids in Phoenix I think, no one knew him around here...but the thing was...you see...  ...he was raping me the whole time...for years. He loved to do things to me. Believe it or not, he used to say he was in love with my ass. Y'ever been in love with a woman's ass?
bobby		Yeah.
grace		You're sick too...he loved to do things to me. Control me. My Mom...it tore her up cause she couldn't do nothing about it. She become alcoholic...and the funny thing is-- I liked it. I liked being controlled by Jake. The truth was as far out and crazy as he got, I wanted more. I wanted to go all the way. Women say they don't want to be taken like, really taken -- that's bullshit -- they do. The first time he finished with me, he said I was a woman now. I was 14. Then he started crying like a baby...wanted me to hold him. It's a strange feeling to hate someone so much for so many years, but still want to hold him, comfort him... They found my Mom right down there  at the bottom of Apache Leap. She had cactus needles stuck all over her body and Virgil...Sheriff Potter said she was drunk and went insane. But I'll never believe she ran off that cliff by accident. She was born on this earth and she loved it. She was like me. She just wanted to fly away.
grace		After he got his divorce, he forced me to marry him...but when I saw her body, I swore to her on my soul that some day I'd get Jake for what he did to her...
bobby		I'm sorry...
grace		Yeah. What do you want. Life, right?  Have you ever been to California?
bobby		Yeah.
bobby		Oh yeah. It's far, it's another world.
grace		Is it pretty?
bobby		Oh yeah. It's beautiful, beautiful beaches. Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see.
grace		Please. I won't hang on you. As soon as we get there you can dump me. I don't care. I just want to get out of here.
bobby		Honey, baby, I can't. I can't even get out of here myself. Believe it or not, I need a lousy hundred and fifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic...
grace		Darrell?  You know he and Jake are...
bobby		You don't have any money put away, do you?
grace		Jake never gives me more'n twenty bucks at a time, like a bird in a cage, he don't want me goin' anywhere...
bobby		...you could get me money. I'll get you out of here.
grace		There's money. A lot.
bobby		Where?
grace		Jake hides it. In a safe. In the floor. In the bedroom. He counts it. He loves to sit there and count it.
bobby		What do you mean?
grace		At night. He just sits there and laughs and talks to himself and counts it. I heard him. My Mom told me he had a hunnert thousand dollars down there. Maybe more.
bobby		In cash?
grace		Oh yeah. There's nothing else with Jake. He don't trust banks. He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed. He loves it so much, he wouldn't think of spending any of it on me. I never seen it but I know he's got more than a hunnert thousand at least...
bobby		One-hundred-thousand!?  That son-of-a-bitch.
grace		It takes a key.  He keeps it on himself all the time.  I mean all the time.  It scratches up against me when we do it.
bobby		If the key's on him, how do we get the key?
grace		Kill him.
bobby		I can't kill, Grace. I can't kill anybody.
grace		It's not like he's a young man, Bobby. He's had time to live. It'd be quick. I mean, he wouldn't even have to feel it...  I mean, sometime in the middle of the night, when it's quiet...when he's asleep, you could just come up behind him when he's pounding on me and...
bobby		Shit! Listen to you... Are you crazy, Grace?
bobby		Jesus Christ! I think this place is making me crazy. I was crazy to come back here and see you. I'm crazy for listening to anyone in this town, and I'd sure as hell be crazy if I spent another minute with you.
grace		But it's in you, Bobby. I see it. I see Death. It's in your heart. Let it out for me. Let it out...
grace		Do it for me, Bobby, you'll never regret it. I promise you. I'll do anything for you. Anything.
bobby		I...take me back to town...
grace		You need the money, Bobby. It's a lot more than $100,000. A lot more. How are you going to get out of here? You need the money. Whatever it takes, Bobby, remember?
grace		Where you going? I'll give you the ride...Come back! Bobby? It's three miles.
bobby		No!
blind man		It's the desert that makes you crazy. The loneliness out here. Nobody to talk to. People on the run. Trailer parks. White trash. I seen some peculiar things on a hot day.  I seen a scorpion sting itself to death.  It just keeps driving its tail into its body again and again.  A little killer killing itself.  Seen a coyote kill itself too.  Just kept on biting and tearing at its own legs.  Near tore one clean off before it bled to death.  And what a white man'll do when it's freezing one moment, hot as hell the next. A man could get hisself killed just for rubbing shoulders with another  kiss kissy kiss. Nice pussy y'see, see it coming. I don't know what it is about the desert. I figger it's sort of like putting a kettle of water over a fire.  People is mostly water.  We boil when it's hot.  'Cept when we boil the water's got no place to go.  It just churns inside of us until we can cool off.  If it's not too late.
bobby		You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
blind man		Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
bobby		That a fact?
blind man		I can see just fine.  For example:  You're a young man who thinks he's got someplace to be.
bobby		Maybe I do.
blind man		Or maybe you just think you do. Just another small town. One guy chasing you. You go big town. Just gonna have four guys after you instead. Kiss kissy kiss. It gets down to one thing -- are you a human being or are you one of those hungry ghosts out there never satisfied with nothing? Cause you gotta remember you can run just as far as you can, but wherever you go, that's where you gonna be.
bobby		I think I've heard that before.
blind man		What do you want for free?
bobby		You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
blind man		Seems like I do but only cause end of the day we're all eyes in the same head. And everything is everything.
bobby		What?
blind man		...And everything is nothing too.
blind man		Think you'll live that long?
blind man		Cocksucker motherfucker! Cops. I hear you. Always sneaking around. Thinks I can't see him. Well he's right. Motherfucker. But that ain't mean I don't know what's going on around here. They're all cursed. Yes sir.
bobby		Who's cursed?
blind man		All them miners last century. Hungry ghosts, killed off all the Indians. Up at the mine. Earth ran red with blood, think I'm fooling around here. White sky was on fire. Grown men cried like babies. I saw a flash, then darkness descended upon me. They put me in the joint. Took my eyes. I cursed them. White people can't seem to stay away from Indians . You gotta watch where ya put your fingers. Pussy pussy pussy, Indian pussy.
bobby		I thought you said you lost your eyes in the war?
blind man		So now you're going to tell me where I lost my eyes. You don't think I know where I lost my eyes? I was there when I lost them. I lost them in the war. The war in the joint. There's always wars in the joint. Cause I was a code talker in the joint and in the war too. Mmmm, nothing like the smell of a naked lady. Be careful, boy.
bobby		Musta been some bad ass nuclear tests here in the 50's. This town's all inbreeding.
blind man		Well, people gotta get by somehow. That's the curse. The mines done it. All that uranium, plutonium, fuffonium, fuckononium, assononium, all that "om"! Everybody's got a mother. You don't rip up your mother. You don't rip up the Earth and take everything out. It's like the Cracker Jack box says, "the more you eat, the more you want...."...
bobby		I got things to do.
blind man		...But ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
bobby		I'm a little short Pops. I'll catch you next time.
blind man		Your lies are old, but you tell 'em well.
jenny		Hey mister. Mister, I just... I just wanted to thank you.
bobby		For what?
jenny		For defending my honor this afternoon.
bobby		I hate to bust your bubble honey, but I wasn't defending you.
jenny		But you was going to fight for me.
bobby		I wasn't going to fight for you.  I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend.
jenny		He's not my boyfriend.  I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for.  Not yet that is.
bobby		Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you.  If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him.  You're not going to get much better in this town.
jenny		That's what I thought until you came riding in.  I saw your car over at the gas station.  It's a cool car.  Want to take me for a ride?  Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
bobby		How old are you?
jenny		 Eighteen... Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
bobby		No, I don't want to take you for a ride. What I want is for ... Hey, you don't think you can get $150 from your parents, could you?
bobby		Oh, shit!
toby		That's right, Mister.  You better be afraid.  I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen.  Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
bobby		I wasn't sneaking around with your girl. Would you please tell him?
jenny		You're too late, Toby.  We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind.
bobby		What the hell are you talking about?
jenny		What's your name anyway?
toby		Oh, that tears it, Mister.  I'm gonna bust you up but good.  I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then ... and then bust those pieces up, and then ... and then spread them all around.  That's what I'm gonna do.  You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister.  I'm crazy.  I'm psycho crazy.
bobby		Yeah, I know.  You're TNT.  Just like dynamite.  When you go off somebody gets hurt.  All right.  Let's do this.
jenny		Toby Tucker, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
bobby		Will you shut up!
toby		You gonna pay for that, Mister.
toby		Hey, Sheriff Potter.
toby		That ain't true, Sheriff.  I was home for lunch.
sheriff		Boy, I'm not trying to hear nothing from you except that you're heading home.  Now run along.
toby		Yes, sir.  Come on, Jenny.
jenny		I want to stay.
toby		I said come on!
jenny		Bye, Mister.  Don't go nowhere without me. I wanna have your love child.
toby		Next time, Mister.  Next time.
sheriff		Where ya goin'?
bobby		Harlin's.
sheriff		Get in.
sheriff		Seen you popping up a little bit of everywhere today.  You're not planning on staying are you?
bobby		No, sir. I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
sheriff		That's a nasty cut you got there.
bobby		Yeah, fell down and hit a rock. Not as bad as it looks.
sheriff		There was a young fellow over at Jamilla's today when it got hit.  Way she tells it he got whacked around good by one of the robbers.
bobby		Sounds like it. I wish I could help Sheriff, but I just want to get my car and get on up the road.
jake		Everything all right, Virgil?
jake		I was just up at Darrell's. How's the wife? That little eskimo baby walkin' yet?
sheriff		Oh just fine.
jake		You haven't seen Grace around, have you? I'm looking for her.
sheriff		No. But if I do, I'll tell her you're looking for her, Jake.
sheriff		Peculiar, how things happen. A man's car breaks down. There's a hold up. People die and all that money -- and now old Jake out looking for his young wife. And then you show up...
sheriff		Time's running out, son. I'll be seeing you in the morning...
darrell		Hey there.  I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back...  You don't look so good.
bobby		Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a bit.
darrell		One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you started?
bobby		You've been there?
darrell		Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog.  Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
bobby		You believe that?
darrell		You think bad, and bad is what you get.
bobby		That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
darrell		No charge.
bobby		Listen, Darrell, about that hundred-fifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll--
darrell		Two-hundred.
bobby		What?
darrell		It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
bobby		You said this morning the hose was going to run me one-fifty.
darrell		Yep.  For the hose.  But while you was gone I replaced a gasket.  That's going to run you another fifty.
bobby		I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
darrell		Yeah, but it was shot.
bobby		I don't give a fuck! I didn't tell you to do it!  You can't just do unauthorized work.
darrell		Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you?  Didn't you read the sign.
bobby		What sign?
darrell		The goddamn sign on the wall. I can't do unauthorized work?  What am I suppose to do? Just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket.  Then you get in an accident and get killed.  Or worse.  Who they gonna blame then?  They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
bobby		What reputation?  You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumbleweed hick.
darrell		Is that an insult?  Are you insulting me.
bobby		Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
darrell		Listen to me you sorry sonufabitch. You owe me money, and this car ain't going nowheres until I get it.  And if you take another five hours I'll find another fifty dollars worth of work to do on it. Is that clear? Now get out of here 'fore I call the Sheriff, who knows me.
darrell		You want to play, Mister?  I'll play with you.  You want to smash something?  So do I.
bobby		No! Okay! Okay!
darrell		What's the matter?  The fight gone out of you?  I'm just gonna smash a headlight. Maybe two.
darrell		Mister, you already pissed me off but good.
darrell		There you go, sweet talking me again.
bobby		Look, Harlin.
darrell		Darrell.
bobby		Darrell. I'll get you your money. I just have to get something out of the trunk.
bobby		What the fuck did you do to my trunk?
darrell		Well, that key's not gonna work. I had to pop the lock. You didn't leave me the trunk key.
bobby		And you had to go into the trunk, didn't you?
darrell		When I work on a car, I work on a car.
darrell		You can't help yourself, can you mister? You're out of control.
bobby		I need a ticket.
clerk		Where to?
bobby		Out of here.
clerk		But, in particular?
bobby		I ... Mexico.  You got a bus that goes to Mexico?  That's where I have to go.
clerk		Mexico is a large country. Where in Mexico would you like--
bobby		I don't care, just get me there.
clerk		How about Ciudad Juarez? You could take a local, arrives in two hours, and transfer in Albuquerque. It'll get you across the border.
bobby		How much?
clerk		One way, or round trip?
bobby		One way.
bobby		Twenty-seven, fifty.  That's all I got.
clerk		I'm sorry, sir.  It's $30.55 for the ticket.
bobby		Please, ma'am, you don't understand! I have to get out of here.  They're going to come looking for me.  They're going to kill me. If I can't get this ticket then I'm going to have to do things to get out of here. You know what I mean! I don't want to hurt anybody, I just want to leave. Please. I can't...I can't.
clerk		Okay, I'll give you the ticket, sir, but...just...just, please calm down, please!
clerk		Keep your change.  Bus three-twenty-three. Leaves at seven fifty two, tonight.
bobby		I'm sorry.  It's just ... you know ...
bobby		Holy shit!
sergei		Got you, shitface! Bobby Cooper. Bobby Cooper...
sheriff		Where's the fire sweetheart? Don't know how they work things in Nevada, but we got speed limits in this state.
sergei		Vat? I am going 5 miles an hour! I am looking town. I not even moving.
sheriff		Whoa, what kind of accent you got there? You one of them Russians?
sergei		I am Russian, da! I am also rich Russian, da? Maybe we work something out, my friend Sheriff?
sheriff		What? You trying to bribe me, mister? Just cause you Russians ain't commies anymore, don't think money can buy everything...
sheriff		What's that?  ..."concealed" is a definite no no in this town, Ivan. You know anything about Jamilla's grocery store?
sergei		What fuckin grocery store, you fucking shithead idiot! You call yourself a police...
sheriff		Get out of the car, spread them. You can jawbone all you want or you have the right to shut the fuck up! You commie motherfucker. Either way you're goin' to the can.
sergei		I want my lawyer!
bobby		Ow!
toby		Get up, Mister!  Don't ever let it be said Toby Tucker beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance.
toby		I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended.  I'm stompin' your ass.
bobby		You idiot!  You don't even know what you're fighting over!
toby		My honor, that's what I'm fighting over. Now get up off the ground, or do I have to whoop you where you lie?
jenny		Toby!  Toby Tucker, leave him alone!
toby		You stay away, Jenny.  I aim to mess him up, and that ain't a thing for a woman to see.
jenny		Don't be afraid of him none.  I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together.
bobby		Get away from me!
toby		Now, what's this?
bobby		Give it to me!
toby		Mexico?  You going to Mexico?
bobby		I'm leaving.  You never have to see me again.  Just please, give me the ticket!
toby		This means something to you?  Jenny means something to me.
bobby		Nooo!
jenny		Stop it!  You're killing him!
jenny		You're killing him!  Toby!?  Toby!?
jenny		You killed him! You killed him!
bobby		Hello, Grace?  It's Bobby.
bobby		I wanted to talk.
bobby		What about us?
grace		There is no us, remember?
bobby		Except I can't get you out of my head, Grace. 
grace		Stop it.
grace		Because I know you're full of shit.
bobby		I mean it, Grace.  I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
bobby		I could if I had Jake's money.
bobby		I don't give a damn about the money.  I want you, and I want to get us out of this shithole.  There's only one way to do that.
grace		Are you sure?...  About me, I mean?
bobby		I came back for you; this morning I came back.  Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want.  The only reason I stormed off is because you spooked me talking about Jake.  But I've had nothing but time to think about it.  It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here.  But we've got to get the money, baby.  We get the money, I get the car, then we get the hell out.
grace		You said you couldn't kill anybody.
bobby		We don't have to kill him.  Just knock him out and tie him up 'till we get away.  It was your idea, remember?  I'm doing this for you.  I'm doing this so you can fly...fly like a bird.
grace		After dark.  I'll leave the back door unlocked.
jake		Who was that on the phone?
grace		Wrong number.
jake		You spent a long time talking for a wrong number.  But then you make friends so easily.  Don't you, Grace?
grace		I put up new drapes, Jake.
jake		I know.  I was here when your apprentice was helping you.  Remember?
grace		You never said anything.  About the drapes.
jake		They look nice.
grace		You haven't even looked at them once.
jake		They look nice.
grace		I picked them out for you, Jake.  I thought you would like the colors.
jake		What the hell you looking at, girl?
grace		Nothing, Jake.  Absolutely nothing.
blind man		Well, that's it.  Sun's going down.  People go home, trade stories over dinner. They'll talk about the day, about the heat, laugh about something crazy it made them do.  They'll kiss, sleep a few hours, then do it all over again.
bobby		The day wasn't so bad.  We all got through it all right.
bobby		Difference between you and me, old man, is I see the glass half full, you see it half empty.
blind man		Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
bobby		You afraid of the dark?
blind man		Afraid of it?  Boy, I live in the dark. All cause of a woman who made me this way. People are afraid of what they can't see. I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me.  Kiss from a beautiful woman, kissy kissy kiss, a lick from a dog, slurp, slurp, the kiss of death . It's all the same to me.
bobby		So, we're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride.  Is that it?
blind man		More or less.
bobby		Not this twig, friend.  I got plans.
blind man		Nothing makes the Great Spirit laugh harder than a man's plans. We all got plans. I planned on seeing all my life. I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
bobby		No and I don't plan on sticking around either.
blind man		Well, don't say I didn't warn you when things go your way.
bobby		You got a lotta philosophy in you, old timer but you don't fool me for one second with all this blind man crap. One minute you lost your eyes in Vietnam, next it's the joint. Now it's a woman? I'm hep to you.
blind man		Used to be a young smartass like you. Then I got smart with the wrong man's daughter. Got some acid poured on my peepers for my trouble. You know human beings ain't always just human -- they got animals living inside 'em too...People give spare change to war heroes not fools. All fools get is pity. May not have eyes, but I see. And you, boy?
blind man		You got my pity.
blind man		Oh, she was worth it.  She was worth every black minute since.
bobby		Time's up. Any last words of wisdom?
blind man		Things ain't always the way they seem. You got to ask yourself: is it worth it? Day comes Earthmaker is going to look in your fucking heart! Then you better know what it is you're doing. Are you a human being -- or just one of them hungry ghosts out there floatin' around?
bobby		You are crazy, you know. Be seeing you, old man.
blind man		You know I won't be seeing you.
blind man		Cheap bastard. Gives me back my own money... Well, Jesse, time's up, let's go for a walk.
jake		Ya little bitch, you like it don't you! You like it this way -- rough and hard. Gotta go fuck around on me, like your Mama, but you always gotta come home to Daddy, don't you, cause you know Daddy's the best.
grace		Yes, yes, hit me...beat me, please.
jake		You been a bad girl, Grace. You took my heart from your Mama, didn't ya? You betrayed her! Like you did me. There ain't no forgivin' ya, girl!
grace		Oh no! Oh please forgive me, Papa!
jake		You broke her heart! You broke your Mama's heart. You stole me! That's right. Fuck it away. But it ain't ever goin' away, cause your Mama -- she's like a hungry ghost baby, she won't go away, she won't leave ya alone.
grace		No! No! Please!
jake		Oh baby, I'm so sorry... I'm so sorry...  I didn't mean to hurt you so bad. It just...got away...
jake		Forgive me, baby, forgive me!
grace		What's the matter?
jake		You didn't hear something?
grace		Yeah, I heard a key slapping against my ass.
jake		There's someone in the house.
jake		Relax baby. Stay here.
grace		Jake, don't go out there. Call the sheriff.
jake		Shhhh! Just like your Mama, always scared of things...
jake		Well, well.  As I live and breathe.  I didn't expect to be seeing the like of you again.  Thought you'd be long on your way by now.
bobby		That's my gun... That fucking Darrell!
jake		I like Darrell.  He may be an idiot, but he's my half brother. We own Harlin's together, yeah, that little redneck manages to get paid no matter how things work out.
jake		I guess this is what they call "ironee"? Hunh?
bobby		It's not what you think, Jake.
jake		No, but it don't matter anyway when you're lying there with your brains all over my carpet and I'm telling Sheriff Potter about this drifter, didn't have enough money to fix his car. And Darrell happened to find his gun, and through maybe this drifter heard old Jake got some money stashed away, and figgered he might try to break in and steal it!
bobby		Wait a minute.  Just listen to me...
jake		...And he thought he'd clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper...and then maybe borrow $200 or
jake		There's another reason? It better be good.
jake		That's a thick change of heart from this afternoon.
bobby		Maybe I don't like being played, like she played us today.  Maybe I don't like that at all, Jake. I'm just pissed enough, maybe I'll rip the neck off my own grandmother.
jake		You have a lot of talk in you, whole lot of talk.
bobby		Damn it, Jake. There is a guy coming to kill me, and if it comes down to me or Grace, then I pick Grace.  You were going to give me thirteen-thousand.  Give me two-hundred.  I'll kill her and dump the body where no one will ever find it. She showed me the perfect place. There won't be enough left for an autopsy.  But I need the the money.  I've got to have the money.
jake		She's in the bedroom.
bobby		Wanna give me my gun?
jake		A strangling'll do just fine. Go to work.
bobby		How 'bout the pipe?
jake		Hold on a second! Come here!
jake		How the hell did you know where the bedroom's at?
bobby		What are you talking about!
jake		...Or did you just ply the afternoon away between my sheets putting your lips all over her, you little horndog...
jake		You're right! I don't give a damn about her. But killing her's one thing. Fucking her behind my back, that's another!
jake		Now you've tasted both of us!
bobby		O.K.! I admit it! I fucked her! But it's her you have to worry about, not me! She wants you dead, Jake. She wants you dead and she wants your money.
jake		You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
bobby		You know what kind of woman Grace is, Jake. You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Superior.  What's she to you, Jake; a woman who wants you dead?  Let me kill her.  All I want is two-hundred dollars to get out of here with.
jake		Two-hundred dollars?
bobby		Two-hundred dollars...I'll do it!  I'll kill her!
jake		Sweet Christ, I'd be doing the world a favor, ridding it of the likes of you. Get your miserable ass off the floor. You're positively pathetic... Go on, go kill Grace.
jake		I'm not letting you walk for nothing. Two hundred dollars. Do it, boy. Kill her.
grace		Jake!
jake		Grace!!
jake		Well...looks like you got him, Grace. That's good...that's real good.  He must of slipped past me, but you got him.  Looks like that drifter from this morning.  Got to be careful who you make friends with, sweetheart.
jake		Why don't you put that down? It's all over now.  Put it down.
jake		Go on, girl.  Put it down.
jake		Aww, that's my Grace:  Not about to let someone get the best of her.  That's what I love about you.  As dangerous as you are unpredictable.
bobby		Grace, goddamit, do something!
jake		Grace...?
jake		Help me, Grace, help...
grace		Like you helped her, Jake?
bobby		What the hell'd you wait for?
grace		The money's right here! Get the key!
bobby		No! You get it!
grace		Didn't I tell you?
grace		We done it, Bobby. Oh my God!
grace		Fuck me baby!
grace		Let him watch. I want him to know what he's missing.
bobby		Open up!
darrell		What the hell ... oh, it's you.  Might've figgered. Listen I got a waitress coming over.  What do you want?
bobby		I want my car.
darrell		You got the money?
darrell		Two-hundred dollars in hundred-dollar bills.  And this morning you was broke.
bobby		That's none of your business.  Get the keys.
darrell		I don't want no dirty money.  I run an honest business.
bobby		Yeah, like Al Capone on tax day. Get the keys?
bobby		All I got's a hundred, Darrell. You got change?
darrell		No.
bobby		Figgers. There's a scratch on the hood and how much you make selling my gun? Deduct it.
bobby		Course you don't. Tell me something Darrell. Forty thousand people die every day! How come none of them are you?
bobby		And the trunk key.
grace		Bobby?  What the hell's the matter with you?
bobby		I ... nothing.  I just stubbed my toe on a rock.  Hurt like hell.
grace		I got the money all packed.  I put the jeep and his caddy in the garage. People'll think maybe me and Jake went away.  Buy us some time...I know a back road we can take.
bobby		Good thinking.  What's all this?
grace		I'm not coming back.
grace		Funny thing; the jeep wouldn't start. I had to push it.
bobby		I can't see it.
grace		It should be just up ahead.  Hold on ... there!  There it is!
grace		Oh, God!  I can't believe it.  I'm out. I'm finally out!
bobby		Hey!  Take it easy.  Want to get us killed?
grace		You don't know what it feels like to be free of that place.
bobby		I don't know about that?
grace		You spent a day in Superior. I wasted my entire life there. I feel like someone just took a million pounds off my shoulders.
bobby		We've still got some dead weight to get rid of.
grace		Can't we just dump him fast someplace?
bobby		I want a place where only the vultures will find him... It'll be over soon, Grace.
grace		Then will you take me on your friends' boat with you?
bobby		I'm not sailing his boat.
grace		But I thought --
bobby		We're going to buy a boat of our own baby, and sail it wherever we want to go.
grace		Anywhere?
bobby		What the hell? Why not? Where should we go?
grace		Hawaii. I've read all about it. I've dreamed of going there and just lying on the beach while the water licked up against my feet. Oh, God. I'd kill to go there.
bobby		You already have.
bobby		You know I thought you'd left me back there.
grace		What are you talking about?
grace		I love you Bobby.
bobby		We're gonna pull this off, Grace.
grace		Oh, my God!  Don't stop!
bobby		He must've seen us swerving on the road, that's all, just gonna give us a ticket for swerving...
grace		Keep going!
bobby		Fuck this!...Just shut up, Grace. We done nothing! Be cool. Let me do the talking. He doesn't know anything.
sheriff		You had to fuck him, didn't you!
bobby		What!
grace		OK...but he never made me cum! Really Virgil, I was only doing what I had to do so we could be free. Just like we talked about. It meant nothing.
bobby		You fucking him too Grace? Is everybody fucking everybody in this town?
sheriff		You fuck this guy -- get him to do your dirty work and you think you can take the money and dump me?
grace		No baby, you got it wrong.
sheriff		This road don't go to Globe, Grace -- where were you going to meet me?
grace		It's not like that it... Look, Virgil, I got the money here.
grace		All talk, that's all you did was talk, and all I did was sit around getting older waiting for you to free me! You never did nothin' Virgil, you're weak!  He did!
sheriff		This is some girl you and me got here Bobby, yessir, an excellent cocksuck too, wouldn't you say? ... Course you had a lotta practice haven't you darling, going way back to your crazy mama!
sheriff		I don't want the fuckin' money! I'm not gonna give up everything I got for a lousy 50,000 dollars. It's you. You Grace or nothing. The whole thing... I want you to be my wife.... What do you way Grace?
grace		You sound just like Jake... I did see into the future, Virgil, but you weren't in it. Go back to your family. They love you.
sheriff		Shut up, boy! You don't know shit round here!  Get back. Did she tell you that story about the bird flying away?
grace		Stop! Stop it!
grace		Goddamnit Virgil, stop!  Don't!
sheriff		...But I bet the story she didn't tell you was the best story of all. How old crazy Jake was really her Papa. And she liked fucking Papa! And now she's killed the sonufabitch! Just like she's gonna kill you!
grace		No...you! You!
bobby		Grace. No!
grace		Help me get him off the road. Into the car! We'll ditch his car... Get the fuck up!
grace		Get real Bobby. He was gonna kill you and me.
bobby		He was in love with you Grace. He would've done what you wanted, you could've made a deal and ...
grace		The only deal he had in mind was killing you for Jake's murder and blackmailing me into sucking his dick for the rest of my life... no thanks.
bobby		He was a cop, Grace, they never stop looking for you when you kill a cop...
grace		He was a scumbag!... He wanted me, Bobby. These guys don't let go! Even when they're dead...  You don't know what it was like, Bobby. Those two, they were the same.
grace		So, aren't you going to ask me?
bobby		Ask you what? You mean what kind of horrifying sick shit is coming next?
grace		Don't you want to know...? I bet it's burning a hole in your brain just now?
bobby		Let it go, baby. It's the past. I got a past...
grace		Don't you really want to know? Was Jake my Daddy? Was I fucking my own Daddy? Don't you want to know that?
grace		Yes! I was! I was fucking Daddy! And I married him!... I married him...okay?
bobby		Why?
grace		I don't know why!
grace		All I wanted was to be a kid... He took that from me... They all did...  They treated me like meat. A piece of meat. Fuck me. Blow me. Bend over. Stick their fingers up my ass... Fuck them! Fuck the whole town! They deserved to die!
bobby		And us Grace? What do we deserve?
grace		It's easy to judge someone else when you don't know nothing about it... I'm Apache, Bobby. You don't eat what I eat. You don't see what I see. Don't judge me.
bobby		I don't want to think anymore.
grace		See ya, Virgil. God bless.
bobby		No Grace, my hand's bothering me.
grace		You think now that Jake's dead, there's all that money there and I don't need you anymore, and I might just sneak up behind you sometime and...pop!
grace		Don't you think I would've done it if I wanted to? What can I do to make you relax, baby?
bobby		You could give me my gun back.
grace		Why don't we just finish what we started.
bobby		I think nothing happens. You're dead meat. That's it.
grace		You don't believe in anything do you, Bobby?
bobby		I believe in this moment, that's all. There is nothing else.  Come on. He must weigh 300 pounds.
grace		You hit me, Bobby? You hit a woman, you motherfucker! Didn't your Momma ever teach you anything...?
grace		Well?
bobby		Well, nothing. We dump Jake, we split the money, then you're on your own.
grace		Don't leave me. I want to say with you, Bobby.
bobby		Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again?
grace		I was just baiting him! Bobby, I had to tell him that to get his guard down. Just like you told Jake you was going to kill me!
bobby		You lied to me all along! Lies, all lies. Your mother, your father, what story are you on now?  How come the town didn't know you was his daughter?
bobby		When you're finished with me, I'm next! I been there, baby. I been there with other cunts...sorry, not anymore. I'll take you as far as California. If we can make that. After that you're on your own. Try Mexico. With all this bread, you can live like a queen.
grace		I don't want to go to Mexico, Bobby! Please, I really want to be with you. Don't blow this. Don't you think I care about you?
bobby		I think you're a lying, back-stabbing psycho bitch, and one day you'll kill me. But it's nice to know you cared...
grace		You don't know your own mind. It blocks your heart.
bobby		Give me a hand.
bobby		Poor old Jake, a few drinks, a fight with the sheriff over his wife. And both of 'em ended up dead.
bobby		Time to go for a walk, Jake.
grace		My mother died in this canyon.
bobby		Save the Mom routine, will ya Grace. It doesn't work with me. One, two, three...
bobby		Look, it's not so bad we split up. It might be months before they find these guys. If at all. I mean with the mountain lions around here. Remember, if they can't find no bodies, there's no crime...  We'll be in Phoenix by noon. Lose this car, get another one. Texas, Mexico are big countries, all that money Grace, you'll meet someone else, you know, there's
grace		Hope is a four-letter word.
bobby		But we all need that too. Hold him.
bobby		You make a pretty couple.
bobby		Won this in a poker game in Reno. God knows who it's registered to.  You shoulda been more careful, Jake. See you later.
bobby		Now all we got to do is try and--
grace		Shit!
bobby		Grace! Help me, Grace...! We been through too much together.  We've only had one day, but you and me have been through more than most people ever will. I know you were angry at me, and, you know, you were right! I'm sorry I hit you. I was wrong about leaving you. You don't belong in Mexico.
bobby		Thank you. Thank you. I...I knew you wouldn't leave me, Grace.
grace		Bobby? Are you all right?
bobby		I busted my leg!
grace		Can you make it back up?
bobby		Grace -- in the trunk of my car is a tow rope. It should reach down here. Go get it, throw it down.
grace		Bobby, the trunk...it's locked. Throw the keys up to me. I'll get the rope.
bobby		I can't throw that far. You got to climb down here and get the keys. You can make it. It's the only way Grace.
bobby		Grace!...Please, Grace!  You have to help me.
grace		Okay. I'm coming. Calm down!
grace		Why's that?
bobby		'Cause I love you.
grace		And I love you too.
bobby		And love's a funny thing.  Sometimes I don't know if I want to love you...
bobby		...or kill you.
bobby		I love you Grace, but I just can't trust you!
grace		Jake...
bobby		He can't help you now, honey!
bobby		You're still lucky.
****Dialogues from script :Ugly_Truth.txt****

abby		Morning, Freddy.
security guard		Morning, Abby. Another peaceful day?
abby		If you say so...
joy		 We've got problems.
abby		There are no problems, Joy.   Only solutions.
joy		The sky-cam on the traffic copter has a cracked lens and they can't fix it.
abby		Okay, that's a problem.  Call Matt Hardwick down at Media Services. He's got a few Sky Cams and he owes me. Now, where are my weathermen?
latino men		Hey there!
abby		Hi, guys!
abby		What's with the pot bellies?
joy		Research shows people like fat weathermen. It makes them feel safe.
abby		I like the one in the green and the one in the brown, but I want to see the one in the green with less sideburns and the one in the brown with more, then I'll make my decision.
abby		Morning, Larry.
larry		I'm sorry to do this to you, Abby, but I don't think I can work with her anymore. It's bad enough I have to take her criticism at home. I can't do it on air, too. A man can only take so much.
abby		You're not a man, Larry...  You're a newsman. A newsman isn't defined by the easy times, Larry, he's defined by the difficult ones. Can you imagine Ted Koppel or Chris Hansen or Anderson Cooper having their wives as co-anchor? Hell, no, because they couldn't handle it. But you can. You've got balls the size of Volkswagens. Don't think I haven't noticed.
larry		 I like to think of them as aesthetically pleasing --
abby		I think I've made my point.
dori		Josh, nobody in Sacramento gives a                              * crap about trees in Alaska! It's not newsworthy.
josh		Oh, but full coverage on David Beckham's new tattoo is vital?!
georgia		He's trying to kill me! He knows I can't eat crab, I'm allergic to it!  Does anyone see this? Is this a hive?
josh		It looks like syphilis to me.
dori		 See that? You wouldn't even know what syphilis looks like if it weren't for my story on Paris Hilton.
guest chef		 She doesn't eat crab or beef or fish. She doesn't eat anything but chicken. You don't need a chef on this show. You need a box of McNuggets.
georgia		I have to tell you, Bruce. This is the best Chicken Kiev I've ever tasted.
guest chef		Actually it's Duck Kiev. Duck makes an excellent alternative for chicken, Georgia.
javier		Can I take home the leftovers?
larry		When we return, our live Skycam traffic update and more on David Beckham's hundred thousand dollar tattoo.
georgia		And what you can do to help preserve the ancient forests of Alaska -- and how it might help your Albuquerque electric bill.
cliff		Go to commercial.  I don't know how you do it.
abby		It's just a matter of staring the chaos in the eye and showing it who's boss. Nice work, guys.
joy		 Stuart wants to see you. He's freaking out.
abby		 That means he got the numbers.
stuart		Have you seen the ratings for yesterday? We got beat by all the network shows, plus a rerun of "Who's the Boss". The one where the vacuum breaks.
abby		It's a temporary setback. This week we'll do better.
stuart		The guy with the cable access show on Channel 83 does better. If we programed Jerry Springer re-runs, we'd do a nine share at a quarter the price.
abby		Please tell me you're not thinking of killing the show.
stuart		I'm not, but I can guarantee you that's what the new management's thinking.
abby		Stuart, "Sacramento AM" is an award-                         * winning news program.
stuart		Management doesn't listen to awards. It listens to numbers. We're not a family-run station anymore, Abby. You're good at what you do, but you've got to get me some numbers. I've got two daughters in college and a son in beauty school. I don't know how much you know about Vidal Sassoon but that shit ain't cheap.
abby		You can count on me, Stuart.
abby		I can't be letting corporate management dictate the content of this show. This is my show. I control it.
joy		Absolutely not. You should be out, observing humanity. Humanity's who watches our show.
joy		You've already rescheduled on this guy three times. You cancel tonight and he's gone. He's read more than a dozen books, he has a 401K and he's cute.
abby		You printed his profile?
joy		What? I'm married. I live vicariously through your dating life. And I really think that this could be our next boyfriend. C'mon, he had nine out of ten items on your checklist.
abby		Well, technically eight and a half. He said he could cook, but when I pressed him, he was completely unfamiliar with cumin. Don't you think that's a little suspicious?
abby		Hi. I'm looking for a guy with sandy brown hair, athletic build, and blue eyes... he's 5'9 which -- I know what you're thinking -- it's a little short, but he's read The Great Gatsby twice, so we'll just live with it, okay?
abby		Jim -- hey. Hi. Hey.
hostess		Shall I show you to your table?
abby		You know what? This is not the best angle. We should get the table over there. Then we both get a view, instead of one of us looking at the busboy station.
jim		I'm fine here.
abby		No, trust me. It'll be better over there.
waiter		Can I get you some water for the table?
jim		Bottle of flat, please.
abby		You know, they've done studies that show tap water is no different from bottled water. And they passed a law recently to have all restaurants filter their tap water. So, technically it's not tap water. 
jim		Yeah, I still like the way it tastes better.
waiter		Can I get you any cocktails?
jim		Scotch on the rocks.
abby		In your profile, you said you liked red wine.
jim		I do, I just feel like having a scotch right now.
abby		 Was there anything else you changed your mind about? I mean, just so I can figure it into the overall picture.
jim		You printed out my profile?
abby		Actually, my associate producer did. She likes me to be prepared. Not that I'm ever not prepared. Kudos on your comprehensive car insurance policy, by the way.
jim		That wasn't in my profile.
abby		No, but it was in your background check.  So...tell me about yourself.
jim		Well, what's left that you don't know?
abby		Good point.
abby		I printed out some talking points for us just in case this happened.
jim		I take it it's happened before?
abby		No, but since you have nine out of ten of the necessary attributes on my checklist, I just wanted to make sure this goes as smoothly as possible.
jim		Thank you.
abby		You realize the ice in that scotch is made from tap water, don't you?
abby		Next time we could go bowling. I noticed online that you're the mid- ranked amateur in the state. I mean, if there is a next time. I'm not trying to be presumptuous, but I am getting a pretty good vibe here...
jim		Uh, no thanks.   It's late.   I                           * should go.
abby		FYI, be sure to eat this by tomorrow. With curry, you can't smell if it's gone bad, so after three days, you should just toss it. Really, don't even give it to a pet or anything.
jim		Three days. Got it.
abby		Here, just to be sure, I'll write today's date on it for you.
jim		 It's fine, really...
abby		 I told them to double bag this!
jim		I'm just gonna -- go.
abby		I'm so sor --
abby		Don't ask.
abby		D'Artagnan! Stop that!
mike		You want the truth! But you can't handle the truth. `Cause it's --
motley group		Ugly!
mike		I'm Mike Alexander and we're back with the "The Ugly Truth." Tonight, as always, we're going to talk about what it is men and women really want in relationships. I've been looking through some books...
abby		Oh my God. It's that cable access jackass Stuart was talking about.
mike		What's your boyfriend's name, princess?
mike		My point exactly, Shrek. Next caller.
mike		Men don't fall in love. Men fall in "want." We want things. We're hunters and gatherers. We're the same as we were when we were cavemen and a gillion years of evolution hasn't done squat. Trust me, there was a Pamela Anderson of cave women and all the cave guys were trying to stick their dicks in her.
abby		So you're saying men are incapable of love?
mike		Did I burst your little Harlequin Romance bubble?
abby		The only thing you burst is your credibility. Men are absolutely capable of experiencing love.
mike		Okay, I'll bite. Who's the guy?
abby		What?
mike		The guy, Mr. Wonderful, the one who's so capable of love. Who is he? What's he like?
abby		Well, he's not like you, that's for sure.
mike		Thank you very much. Go on.
abby		He's smart...he's handsome but doesn't know it...  He's successful, but in a job that means something. He loves red wine, classical music, Cary Grant movies...
mike		This is a guy in America, right? You're not calling from Europe or anything.
abby		Are you interested in listening or not?
mike		No, please. I'm loving this.
abby		He works out, not because he's vain, because it's healthy. He's socially liberal but fiscally conservative. He likes dogs but he's a cat person. He never gets out of bed before you on a Sunday morning --
mike		Oh my god. You're a lesbian!
abby		What?!
mike		Well, you're describing a woman.
abby		Why are those qualities so threatening to you? Perhaps because your complete lack of any one of them is the real reason why women aren't interested in you. At least women of quality.
mike		Where is this guy? I will give you one hundred dollars of my own money to bring him down here and let me meet him.
abby		Oh, he's out there...somewhere.
mike		Wait a second. You're not even dating this guy?!
abby		Well, no...I'm just describing a type...I thought that's what we were doing.
mike		You don't even know him?!?
abby		Excuse me?
mike		You heard me. You must be. If you were hot, you'd be out breaking some poor schmuck's heart instead of spending all your time fantasizing about Mr. Wonderful. Face it, you're ugly!
abby		I am not ugly!
mike		Well, of course you don't think so. Ugly people never know they're ugly. It's like people who have B.O. They never know it because they're surrounded by their own stench all the time.
abby		That is the most ridic --
mike		Look, lemme help you out here. You might as well just face the fact that you're gonna be alone and stop pining away for some fantasy guy you're never going to get. Get a hobby. Build housing for the poor. Anything.
abby		How could you possibly --
mike		Hey, Lassie -- the show's called "The Ugly Truth". If you can't face it, don't call.  Well that about wraps it up for today. I'm Mike Alexander reminding you that the truth is never pretty.
joy		How did the date go?
abby		I ended up pantsless in a parking lot.
joy		That's awesome!
stuart		Morning, everybody.
stuart		Now before I play this, I have to warn you...  ...he's a little rough around the edges.
joy		Is that you?
abby		What?! No!
abby		Why are we watching this?!
stuart		One word. Ratings. Say hello to our new guest commentator. I'm starting him with two segments a week. Three minutes a pop.
abby		Are you kidding me?
josh		Who the hell is this guy?
stuart		His name is Mike Alexander.
abby		And he's a    quintessential misogynist    uber-moron who represents    everything wrong with television    and society at large...
dori		I get crap every time I suggest we do something even remotely fluffy and now you're gonna put this douchebag on the air?
stuart		He's got a point of view. We don't have to like him, we're news people. We're objective. Stone Phillips interviews terrorists, doesn't mean he likes them. It's good for ratings.
abby		I've got a whole list of ideas on how to improve ratings. We don't need him.
stuart		A live debate on immigration policy? Never work.
abby		What are you talking about? Albuquerque is 45% Latino.
mike		Yeah, and as you can tell by all the screaming rugrats in this town, Latino guys like to have a lot of sex. Which means they'd rather listen to me tell them how to bang hot chicks than hear about why they can't bring grandma across the border. 
stuart		See, what did I tell you? He's great.
mike		Thanks, boss.
abby		You already hired him?!
mike		 Who's this delightful creature?
abby		Your superior.
mike		Mmm...I like a woman on top.
abby		 I am an award-winning news producer. I am an award-winning news producer...
mike		Hey, no hard feelings, right?
abby		You don't even knock?
mike		I knocked. I got no response.
abby		So, essentially your knock was negated by your complete lack of adherence to the social etiquette of what follows a knock.
mike		Wow. You are wound like a fuckin' top.
abby		Woof woof.     Recognize the bark?
mike		 Hey, what do you know? You're not ugly at all.
abby		Imagine my relief.
mike		You know, if it weren't for you, I would have never gotten this gig. You and I make good TV.
abby		I'm sorry, what channel is your show on?
mike		Eighty three.
abby		This is channel two. You do know that the lower numbers are better, right? More people watch. So don't tell me that "you and I" make good TV. I am an award-winning news producer. I make good TV. You make imbecilic trash watched by housebound inbreds who are so busy putting their hands down their pants they're unable to change the channel.
mike		I hadn't really been picturing you that way, but thanks for the image.
abby		Let me tell you something. I am not one of your viewers. My cat stepped on the remote.
mike		Thank your pussy for me, then.
abby		There is no way Mike Alexander is going to stay on my show. I want you to skewer him. Make him look like a complete idiot. Not that it will be hard. The man is a moron of unseen proportions.
georgia		 That's just what we need on this show.
larry		Does anyone think my highlights are too shiny?
abby		Larry, listen to me. I want Mike Alexander to go down in flames. I want Mike Alexander to be nothing but a pile of ash on the seat next to you. I want the janitor to come in with his Dustbuster and vacuum up the ashes of Mike Alexander, and then when he throws the ashes into the dumpster outside, I want the rats to vomit and then defecate on the ashes of Mike Alexander.
larry		And I thought you were angry and bitter.
georgia		Uh, no, that would be my untouched vagina.
georgia		For years, there have been concerns about lowering television standards. But many believe that this man and his local public access show, "The Ugly Truth," have brought things to a new low. With that, we welcome Mike Alexander.
mike		How ya doing, guys?
larry		Mike, how do you respond to those who say your show is offensive?
mike		It is... but then again, so is the truth.
georgia		The truth about what, Mr. Alexander?
mike		What relationships are really like.
mike		Take marriage for instance. It's about mutual benefits, social pressure, and taxes. It's not about love and we should stop pretending it is.
abby		C'mon Georgia, let him have it.
georgia		Sounds to me like no one's ever loved you and you're taking it out on the female population.
abby		Ooh, good one.
mike		Well, while we're making observations, you two project this image of the perfect couple, when clearly, it's a lie.
larry		Excuse me?
abby		 Cliff, let's go to commercial.
cliff		Stuart told me to keep rolling, no matter what.
abby		What?   When?
abby		This is my show.
cliff		Not right now it isn't.
mike		I mean, come on Larry, I grew up watching you on TV. You used to be this cool confident cat. Georgia's no dumb bunny. She knew the only way she was getting off the weekend shift was by hooking up with you. But then lo and behold, she became more popular than you and ended up with twice your salary.
abby		C'mon, Larry. Take him down.
larry		I'm proud of my wife's success.
mike		Bullllloney you are. You hate her success. You feel emasculated by her and that screws with your head which inevitably screws with your manhood.
georgia		What's your point, Mr. Alexander?
abby		Good girl, Georgia. Take control.
mike		My point? My point is that your husband hasn't had sex with you in...I'm gonna say. . .three months?
larry		That's not my fault!
mike		I know, it's her fault!
georgia		Why is it my fault?!
abby		Oh, dear God.
georgia		Well, what am I supposed to do, give up the money, so he can get an erection?
mike		I agree. You've economically emasculated your husband to such a point that he's afraid to desire you. Sure, you can dump his ass, but honey, have you seen the eligible men in Albuquerque? It's slim pickings out there for a woman in her forties. You're not going to do any better than Larry. You just have to let him be a man. LET HIM BE A MAN, GEORGIA! 
cliff		And we're out.
joy		Found her.
stuart		One thousand, one hundred and forty- seven calls and over three hundred E-mails. And fifty-three percent of them were women. This guy's a lightening rod!
abby		 People liked him?!
stuart		Liked him? They loved him.
abby		How is that possible?
stuart		I don't know, but I'm scaling back the news and giving it to "The Ugly Truth." Corporate wants five minutes of Mike Alexander, five days a week.
abby		Stuart, I really think this is a mistake --
stuart		Just keep him happy and both of our contracts will be renewed.
joy		Congratulations?
mike		Remember? How could I forget? You threw up in my car.
jonah		Dude, you totally hosed me!
mike		What?
jonah		Last week on your show, you said you should always be mean to hot girls because they'll want you more. I tried it today, she cried, and then I got detention.
mike		First of all - don't listen to what I say on my show. Second of all, you're supposed to do that to 25- year-old girls who think they're hot and can get any guy they want. Not 14-year-old girls. They're going through puberty. They have enough problems.
jonah		Mom said when she was fourteen, she was the prettiest girl in the class.
mike		Well, I was there when she was fourteen and let me tell you something -- she lied.
elizabeth		Don't listen to your Uncle Mike, he was blind from masturbating too much.
mike		Oh, that's a nice thing to tell your son --
elizabeth		It's nothing worse than what he's heard on your show.
elizabeth		Let's hope you can clean it up now that you're on a network. Congrats.
mike		Thanks.
mike		 "Happy 85th Birthday, Harold"?
elizabeth		Sorry, I didn't have time to bake one. I took it from work. Harold didn't quite make it through the big day.
mike		 Looks like he got to blow out his candles.
elizabeth		 What do you think did him in?
mike		Who wants to go out and eat?
abby		Keep it clean, keep it moving, and stick to the script. You're on a live affiliate network news program. You do not have the luxury of using the words "blow" and "job" in the same sentence. If you say anything scatological, you're fired.
mike		Really? Because I thought you were gonna get fired if you don't keep me happy.  I've got a list of demands to go over after the show. And let me just warn you -- they're gonna be scatological.
abby		 If you hear my voice in your ear, do what I say.
mike		Promise you'll talk dirty?
mike		I'm Mike Alexander and this is "The Ugly Truth," where we'll be taking a few minutes every day to talk about men, women and relationships. Let's start with men. Men are simple. To illustrate my point -- on my left we have the best our world has to offer.
mike		Ah, I see you ladies have started without me.
abby		Who let them on the lot? Don't we have security?
mike		Babes wrestling in Jello. Let's just take a quick survey and see which option the men out there would pick.
abby		Do we have phone lines?      Open them!                      *
mike		Beethoven, stuffed pheasant and                              * James Joyce -- or semi-naked chicks frolicking in strawberry-flavored goo.
abby		Jesus, if we're gonna do this, we might as well milk it.  Two, go wide! Good. Ready, one -- tight on his hand!
abby		Lick the Jello off her finger!
mike		Mmmm...I was wrong. It's cherry. And that's the ugly truth. Over to you, Georgia.
abby		Your realize I once had the Archbishop Desmond Tutu on this show.
mike		Who's that?
abby		I can't even illustrate how far I've fallen, because you're not smart enough to get the references.
mike		C'mon, we were a good team back there. You were the one who told me to lick the Jello.
abby		Do you have any idea how much I hate myself for that?! It was cheap titillation. I am now going to broadcasting hell right behind Geraldo and the naked weather girl from Canada.
mike		Seriously? There's a naked weather girl? Can we get her?
abby		Juliet --                                                 *
abby		Dammit!                                                   *
abby		Here, kitty kitty....
abby		Really? This is how I get to spend my evening?
abby		It's okay, baby. Just stay there.
colin		Just stay calm. You're gonna be fine.
abby		Ahhh!!!
colin		Whoops.
abby		Hi, I'm Abby.
dwayne		 "Dear Mike, I know I'm the girl who can change you and make you fall in love. Here's a photo of me and my iguana."
steve		I thought iguanas only liked dry places.
gary		We might need to call animal control on this one.
mike		Guys, enough with the fan mail.
steve		What? You don't want to add her into your rotation?
mike		Uh, no.
dwayne		What about the tranny? He seemed nice.
gary		And he went to all the trouble to knit you that cock-sock.
mike		Can we just play poker?
abby		 You're a doctor?
colin		An orthopedic surgeon.
colin		I do a lot of leg and hip stuff but I do get the occasional foot. You seem to be fine. No sprain.
abby		Well, I guess I'm pretty lucky D'Artagnan picked your tree to climb. Dave in the next unit over sells lawn furniture. I don't know that I would have been as confident with his diagnosis.
colin		I'm here whenever you need me.
abby		Wow, he doesn't usually like men.
colin		Dogs are great, but...well, you're a cat person. You know.
abby		Well, I guess I should get going now.
colin		Any time.
abby		 Oh. Thanks. There was a -- spider. On me. But it's gone now.
colin		Good night.
abby		I'm such an idiot --
colin		You alright?
abby		Yes. I'm going now. Good night.
mike		If you want a woman to keep sleeping with you there are certain things you never say. 
abby		I should be happy about this, shouldn't I?
joy		                                 * Uh, yeah, you've never gotten a twelve share before.
abby		I feel so dirty.
mike		You hear about the ratings?                               *
abby		Yes...                                                    *
mike		And did you hear Corporate's coming next week to take me to dinner?                           *
abby		I hope you can chew with your mouth closed.
mike		What's up with her?
joy		She's spiraling lower and lower into a morass of self-loathing and intense hatred for you.
mike		Yeah, I picked up on that.
mike		Why do you hate my guts?
abby		Your innards are of no consequence to me. I hate what you represent.
mike		You hate the truth?
abby		Your skewed perception of male- female interaction is not "the truth".
mike		But your imaginary boyfriend's the truth?
abby		For your information, I happened to meet him last night.
mike		I really hope he's real this time, because otherwise this is just sad.
abby		Oh, he's very real. Not to mention stunningly handsome and morally sound. His name's Colin. 
mike		You know what that means?
abby		What?
mike		He had to stick his finger up some guy's butt in medical school.
abby		You disgust me.
mike		So, did butt-boy ask you out?
abby		Not exactly. We're taking things slow -- getting to know each other first.  Why am I talking about this with you?
mike		You're the one who brought it up.
abby		Dr. Anderson is everything that you could never be. In fact....
mike		You're calling the guy?! You can't do that. You've gotta let him call you.
abby		Please. It's the twenty-first century...
colin		Oh, hi. Everything okay?
abby		Couldn't be better. I just wanted to call and tell you how much I enjoyed meeting you.
colin		Oh, thanks.
abby		So... I was just thinking that we should have dinner.
colin		 Oh... great.
abby		There's this new French Bistro that got fantastic reviews and there's a gallery opening in Old Town on Friday. So, if you want, we could have dinner, then go to the opening.
colin		Hmmm, Friday... wow.
abby		Is that not a good time?
colin		Actually, Abby, I'm still kind of unsettled with the move and everything so I`m really not --
abby		What the hell are you doing?
mike		Saving you. He was blowing you off.
abby		He was not.
mike		Don't! He'll be expecting you to call him back. When you don't, he'll call you.
abby		How do you know?
mike		Because I know men. If you want it to work out with this guy, you'll listen to me and do exactly as I say. You already did irreparable damage with your psycho-aggressive control freak phone call. It might even be too late. Even if you do salvage the situation, you'll probably never be more than Abby, his desperate neighbor.
abby		I'm not desperate!  Why, did I sound desperate?
mike		Listen to you -- desperately asking me if you sound desperate.
abby		Okay. What do I do?
mike		Pick up the phone and say: "Hey, Doug."
abby		Why would I --
mike		Just do it.
abby		Hey, Doug.
colin		No, this is Colin.
abby		Oh my God. Sorry.
colin		Who's Doug?
mike		 Just a guy I'm seeing. It's nothing serious.
abby		Just a guy I'm seeing. It's nothing serious.
colin		Oh.
mike		 Hang on a sec.
abby		Hang on a sec.
mike		Make him wait.
abby		This is so rude.
mike		That's the point.
abby		When do I pick up?
mike		Never. You make him wait until he gets frustrated and hangs up. If he's still holding on after thirty more seconds, you may actually have a chance.
abby		You'd better be right about this.
mike		Think about it. Would you wait on hold for somebody you were trying to blow off?
abby		You have a point.
mike		Just give me a little bit of time and I can make this guy your bitch.
abby		 I don't want a "bitch." And Colin would never be a bitch. He's a well-rounded man capable of mature emotions and deep abiding love. Things which you know not of.
mike		Maybe not, but I know about lust, seduction, and manipulation. And clearly, you do not.
abby		Why would you want to help me?
mike		Because then you'll have to admit that I know more about this stuff than you do.
abby		My God, you're right. Now what?
mike		Always make an impression. Let's get out of here. We have work to do.
abby		But what about --
mike		Don't worry, in five seconds he'll call back.
abby		 What are you, Nostradamus? That's --
colin		Unbelievable.
mike		Rule number one. Never criticize.
abby		Even if it's constructive?
mike		Never. Men are incapable of growth, change or progress. For men, self- improvement ends at toilet- training. Rule number two. Laugh at whatever he says.
abby		What if what he's saying isn't funny?
mike		That's irrelevant. A fake laugh is like a fake orgasm.
abby		And a fake orgasm is good?
mike		No, but a fake orgasm is better than no orgasm at all.
abby		A fake orgasm is no orgasm.
mike		Only to you. You're not the only person in the room, you know. Let's not be selfish.
abby		You'll never know.
mike		Rule number three. Never talk about your problems. Men don't really listen or care.
abby		Some men care.
mike		No. Some men pretend to care. When we ask you how you're doing, it's just guy code for "let me put my dick in your ass."
abby		Okay, I'm trying to decide whether I should just walk away right now, or run.
mike		I know you think Colin is above it all, but he's a guy. If he's even remotely into you, he's thought about each one of your orifices at least ten times.
abby		I love how you assume every man is as perverse as you are.
mike		I don't assume. I know. 52. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
mike		Rule number four. Men are very visual. Ninety percent of a relationship is based on how good the woman looks. We have to change your look.
abby		What's wrong with my look?
mike		 Sports bras? Khakis? Srunchies? Nurse shoes?
abby		These aren't nurse shoes! They're Lady Keds.
mike		Abby, you're a very attractive woman but you are completely inaccessible. You're all about comfort and efficiency.
abby		What's wrong with comfort and efficiency?
mike		Nothing. Except no one wants to fuck it.
abby		I am not getting breast implants.
mike		Size isn't everything. Breasts just have to be friendly. They have to say, "Hello, everybody! Look at me!"
abby		What are mine saying?
mike		Uh, "I'm reading Tolstoy and I don't want to be disturbed"?
abby		Really? I hate Tolstoy.
saleswoman		This should do the trick.
mike		Sweet.  Strap it on, flapjacks.
abby		I look like a hooker.
mike		That's a good thing.
abby		You're not touching my hair until I know exactly what you're going to do with it.
mike		We're giving you bedhead.
abby		Why would I want bedhead?
mike		Bedhead is sexy.  A ponytail implies that you are either operating heavy machinery or emptying the litter box. Neither of these things inspires an erection.
mike		I don't want you to be a bimbo. You need to be two people, the saint and the sinner, the librarian and the stripper. It's a delicate balance. On one hand, you have to push the guy away with cold indifference and yet on the other hand be a sexually teasing tornado.
abby		Well just don't sit there. Say something.
mike		Glasses.
abby		Huh?
mike		You need glasses.
abby		But I wear contacts. Besides, doesn't the woman usually remove glasses during a makeover?
mike		Yeah, but we're going for a stripperlibrarian thing. Right now, I wouldn't trust you to find me a book.
abby		I know how to flirt.
mike		Do you want to be an old maid?
abby		So, if I don't listen to you, I'll be an old maid?
mike		 "My name's Abby and I'm arthritic and alone. I have eighteen cats who keep me company."
abby		 "Are you wearing underwear?"
mike		Come on! I wouldn't say that and I wouldn't grab ass.
abby		 "I mean what's the point of you even having one unless it's there for me to grab it? You're just a set of orifices and a pair of tee- tas."
mike		You're a deeply, deeply disturbed person.
abby		Maybe I'm just a good student.
mike		Would you stop doing that?
abby		Doing what?
mike		Touching me with your finger.
abby		Why? Am I turning you on?
mike		Maybe.
abby		Actually, I kind of like it.
mike		Really...
abby		Sucker.
mike		No teaching the teacher.
abby		Who is it?
abby		Oh my God!
mike		Told you he'd drop by.
abby		 I'm not ready for this. Am I? I'm not.
mike		Calm down. Keep the conversation under a minute. Be mysterious. Keep him guessing.
abby		Oh. Hey.
colin		Hi. Wow, you look great.
abby		Thanks.
colin		What happened to you today?
abby		What do you mean?
colin		You put me on hold and didn't call me back.
abby		That was you? I'm so sorry. 
abby		 Now what?
mike		Make him suffer.
mike		What the hell is that?!
mike		Nod if you can hear me.
colin		Do you follow baseball?
mike		There's no right answer to that question. Do something non- committal...
colin		I'm really more of a fair weather fan myself. I do like watching Mike DeLoggia pitch, though. Amazing bone structure.
mike		Laugh.
colin		What's so funny?
abby		Your joke.
colin		What joke?
mike		Shit, he was serious?
abby		Thank you.
colin		For what?
abby		Thank you for... just being you.
colin		You're welcome...
mike		Okay, no more improvising. Just repeat everything I say, "You're so much fun to be with."
abby		You're so much fun to be with.
colin		Thanks.
fan		Hey, down in front!
mike		 You're not like the other guys I`ve dated.
abby		You're not like the other guys I've dated.
fan		Hey, sit down, jackass.
mike		 You're so much more interesting and informed.
abby		You're so much more interesting and informed.
colin		That's nice to hear.
mike		Dude, what the fuck?!
abby		Dude, what the fuck?!
colin		What?
mike		Oh, shit.
abby		Oh, shit.
mike		 No, I'm not talking to you.
abby		I'm not talking to you.
colin		Did I do something wrong?
mike		Abby, listen -- tell him you saw him looking at another girl. It's the only way out of this.
abby		 Were you looking at another girl?
colin		Who?
abby		Uh -- her?
colin		Yeah. I was just trying to get us a hot dog.
abby		Oh.
mike		Alright, we need a recovery. Make sure to eat your hot dog slowly. Men like watching penis-shaped food go into a girl's mouth.
abby		What?!
abby		Oh my God, I'm so sorry.
colin		It's fine, really...
abby		No, I have to get it out or else it will stain --
colin		Cotton.
abby		Cotton's the worst. Well actually leather's the worst, followed by suede...
police officer		This is a family place, ma'am.       Not an open-air hand job palace.
abby		I understand, officer.
police officer		You want to pull those kind of stunts, you do it at home. Or in the backseat of a car, like moral upstanding people do.
colin		Well, I can't say it was boring.
abby		That was pretty much the all-time worst first date ever.
colin		Gee, thanks.
mike		 Where are you going with this?       No guy wants to hear that!
abby		No, no, I take full responsibility. So...  But, hey, at least your pants are clean.
colin		You're not what I'm used to.
abby		 I know...
colin		Actually, that's a good thing. I'm used to women I can figure out in five seconds. I can't do that with you.
mike		He's an idiot. I figured you out in two. 
abby		 Good night.
mike		...And walk away.
colin		That definitely made up for my wet crotch.
abby		 Just -- scratch that.
abby		You did it! You did it!
mike		I didn't do anything. It was you. Don't ask me why, but I think he likes you.
abby		He's really a great guy, isn't he?
mike		Yeah, he's dreamy.
abby		And he fits all ten criteria on my checklist!
mike		Right...weren't items one through nine something to do with him pretty much being gay?
abby		I'm going to ignore that because I'm in a very good mood.
mike		Yeah, I heard, wet crotch.
jonah		So, no date tonight?
mike		As a matter of fact, I did have a date. It wasn't mine, but it was a date. I was helping out a friend.
jonah		Guy or girl?
mike		Girl.
jonah		Ooh...is she hot?
mike		She would be if she were less irritating.
jonah		So she likes to make fun of your clothes and stuff?
mike		No, actually I make fun of hers'.
jonah		You told me not to do that.
mike		That's right. And you should listen to me.
jonah		If you know so much about chicks, why are you sitting here playing "Fight Night" with me when you could be out with the Jello girls?
mike		Because this is better.
elizabeth		Hurry, take a picture of me. I'm online with Fugly35 and he wants to know what i look like.
mike		You really want to go out with a guy named Fugly35?
elizabeth		He's being ironic. Look, he's hot.
mike		Uh...look closer. That's Jim Morrison. Who I'm pretty sure isn't an accountant in Rio Rancho.
elizabeth		Shit. Are you serious?
jonah		You owe me a dollar.
mike		What are you wasting your time on the internet for anyway?
elizabeth		Says the man who hasn't had a
mike		At least I date.
elizabeth		No...you fornicate.
mike		So summing up Bonobo-land, the chicks look great, get freaky in bed and in turn, they get to sit on their asses and boss their men around all day.
mike		If that's not an argument for evolution, I don't know what is.
camera guy		Cut!
mike		What did you think?
abby		It was good.
mike		Did you hear Corporate's taking me to Saffron tonight? What do you think --
abby		 Colin called. He wants to get together again.
mike		Cool.
abby		How long do you think I should wait to sleep with him?
mike		The more you make him beg for it, the more you've got him on the hook. Do everything but. Then show him beneath that control freak exterior, there's a sexual deviant waiting to be unleashed.
abby		I am not a sexual deviant.
mike		Good point. If memory serves us right, you've been out of practice for what? A year?
abby		 No...eleven months.
mike		Alright, well, how often do you --
abby		Do I what?
mike		You know...  Flick the bean?
abby		What bean?
mike		No, I call it masturbating, but I thought it would offend your delicate lady-like sensibilities.  So... how often do you flick it?
abby		I find it impersonal.                                    *
mike		What could be more personal?
abby		I just don't think of myself that way.
mike		Well, you need to start. Because if you don't want to have sex with you, why the hell should Colin?
abby		Great.
abby		 One second --
mike		You have to come with me.
abby		Where?
mike		My dinner with Corporate. I don't want to fuck it up.
abby		I can't. I have a date with Colin.
mike		We'll pick him up on the way.
abby		Mike, I'm not going on your dinner.
mike		So, if it doesn't go well and they cut the segment and the ratings go back down to negative fourteen and they cancel the show, you're cool with that?
abby		Let me get my purse.
colin		Hey, you're early --
abby		Yeah...
mike		I'm Mike. Change in plans. Grab your keys. We gotta go.
abby		We'll just stay for one drink. I'm really sorry about this.
colin		No worries.  Are you a news producer as well?
mike		No, dude, I'm the talent.
colin		So you're one of the anchors?
mike		No, "The Ugly Truth."  Hasn't he ever seen our show?
abby		Not everyone wants to start their day by watching you rant about implants and g-strings.
colin		 You talk about g-strings?
abby		Oh, look! We're here!
mike		Hey, ladies. You're looking quite fetching.
bambi		Hi, Mike!
candi		Do you like my dress?
abby		 Are these the Jello Girls?
mike		Yeah, they're my dates.
stuart		Hey, the gang's all here! Abby, you know Harold and Bob.
abby		Of course.
bob		 And we all know Mike Alexander...
harold		And who are these lovely ladies?
bob		Something tells me we won't be talking about the news tonight...
mike		So, you guys here to give me a raise, or what?
stuart		That's my guy. Always with the jokes.
abby		We're really excited about the ratings increase this year. Next quarter we hope to --
colin		What's wrong?
abby		Nothing...
mike		What are you doing?
abby		I'm looking for the remote.
mike		What remote?
abby		 For...the...underwear.
mike		You're wearing them? Now?
colin		Are you okay?
abby		This ceviche is just so....GOOD! I'm going to ask the chef for the -- ooh -- recipe! Excuse me --
stuart		Hold on. Tell Harold about the new teaser campaign we're starting next week.  You're going to love this.
mike		Yeah, Abby. Tell us about the teasers.
abby		Well, it's fifteen seconds...each hour.
mike		Actually, I'm really enjoying the way you're telling them.
candi		What's in a ceviche?
abby		 It's fifteen seconds every hour of Mike telling an Ugly Truth and...Jesus...GOD, they're good.
stuart		See what I mean about her?
colin		 You've got to love her enthusiasm.
mike		Sorry, buddy, that's my toy.
abby		You knew he had it the whole time, didn't you?
mike		No, just part of the time. Figured I should let you finish.
abby		You would have done fine without me.
mike		I know. 78. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
mike		He likes you, by the way. Colin. I can tell.
abby		Really?
colin		Are we ready to go?     I know Abby is.
harold		Keep up the good work, Mike.
bob		And thanks for introducing us to our future ex-wives.
mike		You kids play safe.
mike		So, what's next? A little three-way Scrabble? Some Twister? Maybe a massage chain? We could write in each others' diaries...
colin		I think we've got it from here.
mike		Don't do anything I wouldn't do.
colin		I can't believe I've never seen this before.
drunk guy		 Dude, you got me laid three times last month. Drinks are on me.
mike		Just doing my job.
cute brunette		I got implants, just like you said!
mike		 Indeed you did.
dwayne		Here's to implants!
steve		You're a rock star, bro.
waiter		A bottle of water to start?
colin		Yes, a bottle of flat, please.
abby		I'll have one, too.
abby		The Balloon Fiesta is coming up, so, I was thinking for sweeps, we could do a segment on "how men are full of hot air."
mike		I forgot, Colin only likes "women of quality."
abby		That's a trait to be admired, not mocked, man-whore.
mike		Who says I'm a man-whore?
abby		I've seen you with the Funbag Twins, remember?
mike		You saw me what? Take them to dinner and introduce them to some network executives? They want to be actresses. Who am I to kill their dreams?
abby		You're telling me you've never slept with those girls?
mike		I didn't say that...
abby		Exactly my point. Man-whores want women who wear slutty clothes and suck lots of cock.
mike		Every man wants that. And for your information, I was only with the one who can read.  Did you just say cock?
abby		What? I can say cock. You don't own that word. Cock. There. I said it again.
mike		A week ago you cried at the thought of a vibrator. Now you're all "cock this,""cock that."  You had sex with Colin, didn't you?
abby		NO! We're saving that for this weekend. He's taking me to Santa Fe.
mike		You sure you're ready for that?
abby		Of course I'm ready.
mike		You don't sound ready.
abby		Well, I am ready.
mike		Here's to overturning assumptions. I'm really a man of discriminating taste and you're a foul-mouthed slut.
mike		So there you have it. Never assume a girl is easy, or assume she's a prude. There are many layers in between and it's your job, gentlemen, to peel back those layers and figure out exactly what type of woman you are dealing with.
joy		What happened to him? That sounded almost enlightened.
mike		Because once you do peel back those layers, my friends, her lady garden awaits. And I'm pretty sure you're gonna want to fertilize that patch of petunias. And that there is the Ugly Truth.
joy		And -- he's back.
larry		Next up, Javier tells us if your petunias are going to see any rainfall this weekend.
georgia		I hope mine do...
abby		Yes, the city gets treated to flower-vagina metaphors. Georgia O'Keefe would be so pleased.
agent		Are you ready for this? I just got you on to "The Tonight Show". They want you as a guest.
mike		Jay Leno wants me on his show? You're shitting me.
abby		Who are you?
mike		This is Rick. My agent.
abby		Since when do you have an agent?
agent		Since he became the hottest thing in morning TV.
mike		Holy shit. Leno? This is amazing.
abby		 Yeah...
agent		You leave tomorrow. Let's go clear it with Stuart.
mike		 How cool is this?
abby		What's our story at the top of the hour?
josh		Global warming.
dori		Jesus.   Again?
josh		Oh, I'm sorry, did Anna Nicole come back from the dead?
stuart		Abby? I need you.
abby		What's up?
stuart		I just found out Mike was offered a job by the local NBC affiliate at twice the pay. This Leno thing is his audition.
abby		What?!
stuart		If Bob and Harold find out about this, we're dead. I need you to fly out there and talk him out of it.
abby		Today? Now? But I'm going to Santa Fe --
stuart		 Just don't let him know you know beforehand. Let him do the show and get us our publicity, then convince him to sign with us for the next three years. Now go.
abby		Hi, stupid motherfucker who'd still be on cable access if it weren't for me. I hear you're moving to NBC.
cab driver		What did you just call me?
abby		Nothing. Just practicing my speech.
mike		Abby?    What are you doing here?
abby		Stuart decided you needed a cheerleader.
mike		I thought you were going to Santa Fe...
abby		Apparently, he felt that you needed a producer more than I needed to get laid.
abby		Okay, so let's go over the pre- interview questions.
mike		I'm sorry you didn't get to meet little Colin this weekend. And by little, I don't mean undersized, although I highly suspect that's the case.
abby		Really? Colin's penis? That's what you want to talk about right now? I was thinking maybe we should talk about what you're gonna say on the show.  So, tell me Mike. How did "The Ugly Truth" start?
mike		Well, Jay, I had a sales job where I drove around a lot, listening to talk radio. I started calling in and lo and behold, people liked what I had to say. Then I decided what the hell, I need my own show. I have a message people need to hear.
abby		Yes -- thousands of lives are being enriched by your wisdom.
mike		Excuse me, lady, but you have a boyfriend right now because of me.
abby		It may have started because of you, but it's lasted because of me.
mike		So, you've been acting like your normal control freak psycho self in front of him?
abby		I'm not a control freak.
mike		When you checked into the hotel, did you or did you not insist on getting an "Eastern-facing" room on "a floor not below seven"?
abby		I like rising with the sun. And a view.
mike		My point is, Colin likes the Mike version of Abby, not the Abby version of Abby. So, don't go knocking my words of wisdom when you're living proof that they work.
abby		I could be having sex right now --
mike		Yeah, thanks to me.
agent		Dude, this is awesome. You're about to go on Leno! NBC is going to give you the moon --
agent		-- in a gift basket, of course.
mike		This isn't helping.
agent		Just do what you always do.
mike		What do I always do?
agent		Uh --
abby		 You entertain people with your moronery. And they love you for it.
mike		That might be the nicest thing you've ever said to me.
abby		Your welcome.
jay		So what's your number one piece of advice to all the people out there who are trying to find love?
mike		Don't do it. Try to find lust instead. It's a lot easier and a lot less messy. Blue balls only last a few hours. A broken heart can last years.
jay		So, what's her name?
mike		Who?
jay		The girl who screwed you up. She must have been a doozy.
mike		Like I said, better a floozy than a doozy.
jay		Well, what do you say to guys like me who have been happily married for twenty-seven years? We can't be the exception to the rule, can we? There's plenty of us out there.
mike		Well, Jay, let me tell ya --
mike		Marriage starts off great. She's cute, you're cute, the world's cute. Nothing can burst your bubble of everlasting love. 
jay		You're right. I'm going to get a divorce. My whole life is a lie.  Sorry, honey.
stuart		 Did you get him? Is he ours?
abby		 I'm working on it.
mike		Was I?
agent		 You go ahead and hold our table, doll. We've got some business to discuss.
abby		 Where's Rick?
mike		I sent him home. I thought we should celebrate on our own.
abby		What exactly are we celebrating?
mike		Uh, hello? Leno? I was just on it. Maybe you saw?
abby		I know about the offer from NBC.
mike		Okay, well then you know I turned it down. If it weren't for you, I'd still be on Channel 83. So don't worry, I'm not going anywhere.
abby		Really?
mike		Relax. Drink. Enjoy. You did your job. I'm re-signing with you. Now let's stop talking about work.
abby		So...who was the doozy?
mike		What are you, trying to kill my buzz?
abby		No, I'm interested. In what makes you...you.
mike		It wasn't just one...it was more like a parade. By the time I hit thirty, I realized you can only have so many bad relationships before you figure out there's no such thing as a good one.
abby		You can't really believe there's no such thing as a good relationship.
mike		To my very core.
waitress		Two more mojitos?
abby		And some water, please.
waitress		Still or sparkling?
mike		Just bring us tap water.
abby		So I've been told.
mike		C'mon, let's dance.
abby		I don't think so.
mike		I'm serious. I've seen your spazzy dance, now I want to see the real thing.
abby		I can't dance like that.
mike		I can.
abby		Mike, no --
mike		You'll be fine.
abby		Oh my God. How did you learn to -
abby		So the car's picking us up downstairs at eight. You want me to call you?
mike		I'll get a wake up call.
abby		Good idea.
mike		Me, too.
abby		Remember, the car's --
mike		Picking us up at eight. Got it.
abby		Bright and early.
mike		Good night.
abby		Good night.
mike		Good night.
abby		Yeah.
abby		What the hell was that? And why do I want to do it again?
colin		Miss me?
abby		Colin?
colin		You were expecting someone else?
abby		 Uh, no --
colin		Since you couldn't come to Santa Fe, I decided to come to you.
abby		How'd you find me?
colin		Joy told me. I started thinking about all the things we were going to do there and I decided I couldn't wait.
abby		Oh. Okay...
colin		What's the matter?
abby		Nothing. I'm just so -- surprised to see you.
colin		Well, you told me you were spontaneous. Guess the proof is in the pudding.
abby		 It sure is...
colin		Whoops. Looks like we'll have to get naked sooner than I thought.
mike		Abby -- I really need to kiss you again. And not just in a one-night stand way, in a totally different way. Oh fuck, what am I doing?
colin		Oh, you're not room service.  How ya' doin', man?
mike		I just came by to tell Abby about the change in our flight time. But I can tell her later.
abby		Mike, what are you doing here?
mike		Just leaving.
abby		Mike --
mike		How convenient.
abby		I thought it was you at the door.
mike		I guess we're all interchangeable. I've taught you well. Maybe you should take over the show.
abby		Mike, wait -- tell me what just happened in the elevator.
mike		Why pull up anchor now? You've worked damn hard to get him here.
abby		Really? That's it? That's all you have to say.
mike		What else do you want me to say?
abby		I guess the truth is ugly, isn't it?
mike		That's what I've been telling you.
abby		Sorry, about that. He was upset about his performance on Leno.
colin		No worries. The rest of the night is ours.
abby		Why do you like me?
colin		Well, you're beautiful, you're smart --
abby		You know what? I am like that.
colin		What do you mean?
abby		To be honest, I didn't like the way you poured the wine. I would have decanted it. And I was editing that speech as you were giving it.
colin		 Are you serious?
abby		I haven't been myself for one second of the two weeks and five days we've been dating.
colin		Then who have you been?
abby		The girl some idiot told me to be.
abby		 And you're sure he checked out? Okay, thanks.
flight attendant		Miss, we're going to need you to board now.
abby		Morning, Freddy.
stuart		I thought you said we had him.
abby		What are you talking about?
stuart		He quit this morning. I got a smug call from Channel 4 saying they closed a deal with him. Corporate's having a shit fit. What the hell happened?
abby		We don't need Mike Alexander. He's a dime a dozen.
stuart		You better hope so, because you're going to find me a new one by the end of the week.
abby		 I can't believe I even considered for a second allowing myself to feel something for him.
joy		I still can't believe that you broke up with Colin.
abby		I know I can't control everything. As much as I'd like to. 
big wig		What do you think of the new set?
mike		Love it.
mike		Love it.
big wig		And this is Joe, your new producer.
mike		You know what I like best about you, Joe? I don't want to have sex with you at all.
joe		I'm -- relieved to hear that.
big wig		How much do we love this guy? 103. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
jonah		Dude, check it out. Balloon Fiesta.
mike		Yep.
jonah		Why do you look like a lawyer?
mike		New station. New wardrobe.
jonah		You're never going to get any pussy looking like that.
mike		 Where do you get this stuff?
jonah		From you.
mike		Look at me, Jonah. I'm 38, I'm still single, I live alone... Does it look like it's all working out? If there's one thing you don't want to be, it's like me.
jonah		I'm pretty sure you don't want to open your new show with that.
jack magnum		How's my skin? Too shiny?     How are my pores?
joy		Tiny.
jack magnum		Which side is better? Left? Right? Full-frontal?
abby		They're all fine. But let's go over your intro.  "I'm Jack Magnum and this is..."
jack magnum		The Ugly Truth!
abby		Oh-kay.   Let's maybe lose the gun.
jack magnum		What?   The gun is my signature move.
abby		 Unless the NRA is paying your mortgage this month, I say lose the fucking gun.
joy		And we're live in -- five, four, three, two --
cliff		Think this guy's any good?
stuart		He better be.
stuart		Oh, Jesus. He's going political.
jonah		Dude, check this out. Your replacement's on.
mike		My what?
jack magnum		Most of you are watching this show so you can learn how to get chicks. Let me assure you, you're in good hands. You're looking at a guy who's personally had sex with over 137 women. Most of them conscious.
abby		He's ad-libbing. Why is he ad- libbing? There's no ad-libbing.
mike		Oh, this is beautiful.
cliff		What is she doing?
stuart		 Hey, Harold. Yes, I know -- we're fixing it.
abby		Take Mike Alexander, for instance. He up and quit the show without so much as a word. You think you know what men are going to do, you think you know what they want to do...but when it comes down to the moment where they actually have to nut up, they turn around and do something completely different. 107. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
mike		Oh, I'm all over this.
jonah		I don't think she's into you,guy!
abby		The big, strong, romantic men we've been reading about in novels and watching in movies since we were nine? They're fallacies. "Blue Lagoon" is a total freakin' lie. Men are not strong. Men are not brave. Men are afraid.
larry		 I love "Blue Lagoon".
georgia		I know you do, honey.
abby		...They're afraid to say what they feel. Afraid to grow up. Afraid to tell the truth. 108. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
jonah		It's like she's in his brain!
abby		Even if they have a moment in a hotel elevator that's totally romantic and filled with potential, men are completely incapable of copping to it. Because men are weak.
abby		Hey --
mike		 Women would have us believe that they are the victims. They aren't. They want us to think that we break their hearts for sport. That's crap. They say they want romance. They say they want true love, but all they want is a checklist. Is he perfect? Is he handsome? Is he a doctor?
cliff		I thought he quit.
stuart		 See? I told you she'd get him back.
abby		That is not true.
joy		Well, kinda true.
mike		You men that fit the criteria -- don't kid yourselves. They're not sleeping with you. They're sleeping with a carefully calculated set of venal choices. Money over substance. Looks over soul. Polish over principles. No gesture, no matter how real or romantic, will ever compensate for a really impressive list of credentials.
abby		Says the man who's never made a gesture except for this one --
mike		So, the elevator wasn't a gesture?
abby		The elevator was a moment of passion, followed by a moment of panic on your part, apparently.
stuart		What elevator? 110. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
mike		I came by your room!
abby		And then you ran away.
mike		Well, that wasn't panic, sweetheart. It was an unwillingness to compete with the walking checklist that was in your bed. You should be thanking me.
joy		We have ten seconds.
pilot		Are we ready to soar up, up and away?
mike		And that's the Ugly Truth, folks. A girl in heat for two guys will always pick the one with the better resume.
abby		That is bullsh --
joy		...And we're out.  Keep rolling on B-camera. 111. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
abby		 I hate you so much I just swore on live television.
mike		No, you hate yourself for being so shallow.
pilot		Off we go!
abby		Where are we going?!
mike		I'm not going anywhere with you.
abby		What a shock. You're bailing.
pilot		I wouldn't recommend that...
stuart		They don't know the camera is on, do they?
cliff		 Nuh-uh. 112. 'THE UGLY TRUTH' - Numbered Script - 2/14/2008
mike		Hey! I know -- we can pass the time with you telling me how much fun you and Colin had having sex in Los Angeles.
abby		I broke up with Colin in Los Angeles, jackass.
mike		What?
pilot		To our left, we have the Sandia Mountains, glistening in the afternoon twilight...
abby		Oh, that got your interest? If you think we're going to finish what we started in LA, you're out of your mind. You lost your chance.
pilot		And to our right, you'll see the Rio Grande River winding its way through the diochramatic landscape...
mike		I never had a chance with you.
pilot		And off in the distance, we have the Petroglyph National Monument, where --
mike		What does that mean?
abby		 "I'm Mike Alexander. I like girls in Jello. I like to fuck like a monkey. Don't fall in love -- it's `scary.'"
joy		Don't worry, I saw this coming, so I got us a three second delay.
mike		Yeah, it is "scary." It's fucking terrifying. Especially because I'm in love with a psycho like you.
elizabeth		Did he just say --
jonah		"Love"?
abby		I am not a psycho.
mike		I just told you I loved you and all you heard was "psycho". You are the definition of neurotic.
abby		The definition of neurotic is a person who suffers from anxiety, obsessional thoughts, compulsive acts and physical ailments without having any objective evidence of disease --
mike		Again, I just told you I'm in love with you and you're standing here giving me a vocabulary lesson.  Back me up on this, buddy...who here is afraid?
pilot		I'm just going to drink my champagne.
abby		 You're in love with me.      Really. Why?
mike		Beats the shit out of me, but I am.
stuart		 Joy, how do you feel about a promotion?
joy		 I feel good about it.
abby		 If you say "just kidding", I'm going to throw you out of this balloon and watch your body splatter to the ground.
mike		Are you going to threaten me with death when we have sex? Because it might be distracting.
pilot		May I suggest you wait until we land?
mike		As many of you know, sometimes a guy's gotta admit what he thought was the truth isn't necessarily the whole truth. Yes, women have a checklist, but sometimes that list includes a foul-mouthed idiot who took way too long to realize he was in love.  Let's continue this conversation in a second.
jonah		 Has anyone ever told you you have a stupendous bosom?
joy		Not lately, so feel free to say it again.
mike		 Zoom in on this, guys. I want the whole city to see how lucky I am.
elizabeth		What? No one's ever going to believe this. I need proof.
abby		 What's this?
mike		Hope you don't mind, but we're live.
abby		 No, what's Jorge doing so close? We need a master.
mike		 You knew about this?
abby		Hello...I'm the producer. It's sweeps week. How do you think I got them to pay for this?
mike		God, I love you.
mike		So, here it is, guys. The games, the manipulation, the ploys, the tactics... all the things we do to think we're in control. But guess what? We never are.
abby		 Isn't it beautiful?
****Dialogues from script :Un_Singe_en_Hiver.txt****

albert quentin		Matelot Esnault Lucien, veuillez armer la jonque, on appareille dans cinq minutes.
lucien esnault		C'est parti.
lucien esnault		Voil !
georgina		Albert !
georgina		Oh, je vous en prie, vous n'allez pas encore tout me saloper comme l'autre fois !
albert quentin		Madame, le droit de navigation sur le Yang-Ts-Kiang nous est formellement reconnu par la convention du 3 aot 1885. Contesteriez-vous la chose ?
georgina		Je ne conteste rien, je vous demande simplement de ne pas tout me casser comme l'autre jour.
albert quentin		Ohhh mais pardon ! L'autre jour les hommes de Sun-Yat-Sen ont voulu jouer aux cons. Heureusement que j'ai bris la rvolte dans l'oeuf. Sans barbarie inutile d'ailleurs. On n'a coup que les mauvaises ttes, le matelot Esnault peut tmoigner.
lucien esnault		Sur l'honneur !
albert quentin		Bon. Nous allons donc poursuivre notre mission civilisatrice.
albert quentin		Et d'abord je vais vous donner les dernires instructions de l'amiral Gupratte, rectifies par le quartier-matre Quentin ici prsent. Voil... L'intention de l'amiral serait que nous percions un canal souterrain qui relirait le Wang-Hu au Yang-Ts-Kiang !
lucien esnault		Bon !
albert quentin		Je ne vous apprendrai rien en vous rappelant que Wang-Hu veut dire dire fleuve jaune et Yang-Tse-Kiang, fleuve bleu. Je ne sais pas si vous vous rendez compte de l'aspect grandiose du mlange ? Un fleuve vert ! Vert comme les forts, comme l'esprance. Matelot Esnault, nous allons repeindre l'Asie, lui donner une couleur tendre, nous allons installer le printemps dans ce pays de merde !
georgina		Bon, je vois que vous tes raisonnables, je vous laisse. J'ai des clients  servir, moi !
albert quentin		H !... Dites donc, l'indigne ! Un peu de tact, hein !
albert quentin		Parlons d'autre chose... parce qu'on les connat vos clients, la Wehrmacht polissonne et le Feldwebel escaladeur ! Hein !
albert quentin		Et puis merde, je vous raconterai plus rien, l !
georgina		Chhhhut ! Albert ! Vous fchez pas !
albert quentin		Vous fchez pas, vous fchez pas... Mais, nom de Dieu de bordel, je vous offre des rivires tricolores, des montagnes de fleurs et des temples sacrs, et vous me transformez tout a en maison de passe ! Vous plantez votre Babylone normande dans ma mer de Chine. Alors... Matelot Esnault !
lucien esnault		Oui Chef !
albert quentin		Reprenez le village ! O sont les grenades que je les dgoupille ?
georgina		Calmez-vous ! Je vous demande pardon.
albert quentin		Une reddition ? Soit. La main de fer dans le gant de velours. Matelot,  vos pagaies !
lucien esnault		Oui Chef !
albert quentin		Attention aux roches ! Et surtout attention aux mirages ! Le Yang-Ts-Kiang n'est pas un fleuve, c'est une avenue, une avenue de cinq milles kilomtres qui dgringole du Tibet pour finir dans la mer jaune...
albert quentin		... avec des jonques et puis des sampans de chaque ct. Puis au milieu, il y a des... des tourbillons d'les flottantes avec des orchides hautes comme les arbres. Le Yang-Ts-Kiang, camarade, c'est des millions de mtres cubes d'or et de fleurs qui descendent vers Nankin. Puis avec, tout le long, des villes-pontons o on peut tout acheter... des... alcool de riz... la religion, puis les garces et l'opium.
albert quentin		Je peux vous affirmer, tenancire, que le fusilier des marins a t longtemps l'lment dcoratif des maisons de th. En ce temps-l, on savait rire !  Elle s'tait mis sur la paille pour un maquereau roux et rose, c'tait un juif qui sentait l'ail ! Il l'avait, venant de Formose, tir d'un bordel de Shanga.
georgina		Oh, c'est beau !
albert quentin		C'est pas de moi ! J'ai des vapes comme a qui me reviennent quand je descends le fleuve !
lucien esnault		Je croyais que c'tait une avenue ?
albert quentin		On sait pas ! C'est peut-tre un rve qui se jette dans la mer.
officier allemand		Schnell !...
une fille		H ! Attendez-moi !
albert quentin		Achtung, monsieur ! Achtung !
georgina		Allez ! Allez ! Descendez dans la cave.
lucien esnault		Ils bombardent Le Havre.
albert quentin		Le Havre ! Le Havre ! T'es compltement bourr ! Le Havre, c'est de l'autre ct. a nous tombe sur la gueule, oui !
albert quentin		Couchez-vous !
albert quentin		Dis donc, il serait peut-tre temps d'aller retrouver nos bonnes femmes. Elles doivent s'inquiter.
lucien esnault		Y aurait comme de quoi.
lucien esnault		Voil que a repart !
albert quentin		Et puisque je te dis que c'est rien.
lucien esnault		C'est rien, c'est rien... Albert fait un geste autoritaire des deux bras.
albert quentin		Rien !
albert quentin		Ben, qu'est-ce que tu fous avec ta cravate ?
lucien esnault		Je veux pas mourir dbraill.
albert quentin		Oui, et bien tu feras ta toilette de mort plus tard. Allez, magne-toi.
albert quentin		Oh, merde !
lucien esnault		Oh !... Albert !
lucien esnault		Albert !
lucien esnault		Oh !... Albert !
albert quentin		It's a long way to go...
albert quentin		It's a long way to Tipperary... Et good-bye Piccadilly !...
albert quentin		It's a long way to gooo !...
albert quentin		Aux chiottes, les teutons !... Bande de mange-merde !
suzanne quentin		Arrte, Albert ! Tu vas nous faire fusiller !
albert quentin		Et pas de bandeau sur les yeux, je commanderai le peloton moi-mme, comme le Marchal Ney !
albert quentin		Droit au coeur, messieurs.
suzanne quentin		Si tu crois que c'est le moment de faire le zouave. ALBERT QUENTIN Je me demande, madame, ce que les Zouaves viennent faire la-dedans ! Quartier-matre Quentin, du Corps Expditionnaire d'Extrme-Orient... Garde  vous ! Envoyez les couleurs !
albert quentin		Ta-ta, tagada-dein-dein, ta-ta, tarrrrein-tein, ta-ta, tarra-da-da, ta-ta, tarrein-tein.
albert quentin		Repos !
albert quentin		La rigolade s'organise.
suzanne quentin		Ce matin, chez le boucher, on disait que les Allemands allaient tout faire sauter avant de partir.
albert quentin		Mais c'est leur droit. Moi, je dis que le soldat en fuite a droit  certaines compensations rcratives.
albert quentin		Personnellement, je me suis tap de svres courettes, je connais la question.
suzanne quentin		Si tu buvais moins, t'aurais peur comme tout le monde.
albert quentin		Ouais, et bien si je buvais moins, je serais un autre homme.
albert quentin		Et j'y tiens pas.
suzanne quentin		Si tu trouves a intelligent de mourir saoul !... Je te jures, a fera bonne impression en ville. Tu sais ce qu'on dira ?
albert quentin		Mourir saoul, c'est mourir debout, et je me fous des racontars ! L'histoire jugera, madame, et d'ailleurs, je ne vois pas pourquoi je boirais moins aujourd'hui...
albert quentin		Ils vont tout foutre en l'air, ces cons-l !
suzanne quentin		Albert, j'ai peur !
albert quentin		Bois !
albert quentin		Ben, Suzanne, o que t'es, ma Suzanne ?... Ben, Suzanne !... Hein ?
albert quentin		Ah !...
albert quentin		coute-moi bien, ma Suzanne...
albert quentin		Ce que je vais te dire, c'est srieux, et puis... c'est mme grave. Si on s'en sort, hein... si la maison tient debout, et puis, si, un jour, je peux rallumer l'enseigne qui est au-dessus de la porte... et bien, je te jure de ne plus toucher un verre... Jamais...
albert quentin		Tiens, regarde. C'est peut-tre le dernier.
gabriel fouquet		Je vais  Tigreville.
gabriel fouquet		C'est loin ?
gabriel fouquet		Vous croyez qu'on trouvera un htel ouvert dans le coin ?
gabriel fouquet		Je suis pas venu pour me marrer.
albert quentin		Qu'est-ce que c'est ?
albert quentin		Je descends.
gabriel fouquet		Et cinq cents pour la conversation. Gardez tout.
albert quentin		Bonsoir.
gabriel fouquet		Vous avez une chambre ?
albert quentin		Oh la ! J'en ai quatorze ! Entrez, monsieur. Gabriel entre dans l'htel. Albert referme la porte derrire lui. Gabriel regarde le comptoir de rception. On entend sonner un carillon. Albert fait le tour du comptoir. Sur le mur, derrire le comptoir, l'horloge marque 10h30, et, sur le mur de ct, le calendrier indique :  jeudi 28 octobre . Albert dcroche une clef sur le tableau sous l'horloge. Il prend une fiche sur le comptoir, et refait le tour du comptoir.
albert quentin		Tenez, si vous voulez me suivre.
albert quentin		Vous savez, si vous tes venu pour les bains de mer, j'aime mieux vous dire que la saison est termine.
gabriel fouquet		Qu'est-ce que a veut dire, la saison ? Les paysans disent qu'il y en a plus, de saison. Vous en avez encore une, vous ?
albert quentin		Boh !... Du premier au quinze aot, dans les annes exceptionnelles.
albert quentin		Vous gardez la chambre plusieurs jours ?
gabriel fouquet		Je sais pas.
albert quentin		Voil...
gabriel fouquet		a m'a l'air parfait.
albert quentin		Je vous laisse votre fiche, vous la remplirez demain. Vous avez besoin de quelque chose ?
gabriel fouquet		Euh... Qu'est-ce qu'on peut boire  cette heure-ci ?
albert quentin		Oh ben...Vittel, Evian, Perrier...
albert quentin		Et ben, comme vous voudrez. Voil...
albert quentin		Bonne nuit, monsieur.
albert quentin		Un client.
albert quentin		Ben, qu'est-ce que tu voulais qu'il me dise ? Il m'a demand une chambre, je lui ai donn le huit.
suzanne quentin		Avoue que c'est quand mme une drle d'heure pour arriver, surtout de ce temps-l.
albert quentin		Oh... les voyageurs, c'est fait pour voyager, et puis le temps n'a rien  voir l-dedans.
albert quentin		Allez...
suzanne quentin		coute !...
albert quentin		Quoi ?
suzanne quentin		Tu vas tout de mme pas me dire que tu trouves a naturel ?
albert quentin		Qu'est-ce qu'il y a de surnaturel  chercher les waters ?
suzanne quentin		Albert !...
albert quentin		Vous cherchez quelque chose ?
gabriel fouquet		La porte.
albert quentin		Droit devant vous.
gabriel fouquet		Messieurs !... Il s'assoit sur un tabouret en bois devant le comptoir. Il se retourne lentement, car il vient de s'apercevoir que le brouhaha ambiant s'est tu soudainement  son entre.
simone		Pour monsieur, ce sera ?...
gabriel fouquet		Un Picon-bire.
gabriel fouquet		a peut le devenir, mais pas maintenant.
gabriel fouquet		Je saute pas l'obstacle sans lan. Vous allez voir, j'ai ma recette.
gabriel fouquet		Pendant ce temps, faites-moi un numro de tlphone.
simone		Pour ici ?
gabriel fouquet		Non.
simone		Pour Paris ?
gabriel fouquet		Non. Pour Madrid.
gabriel fouquet		Tenez, il est l-dessus.
simone		M'sieur Esnault... Pour tlphoner  Madrid, comment on fait ?
lucien esnault		Un peu de silence, je tlphone en Espagne.
lucien esnault		Mademoiselle Claire comment ?...
lucien esnault		Ben oui, en Espagne. Un pravis pour mademoiselle Claire Prvost.
lucien esnault		H ! Allo ! Avec I.D.
lucien esnault		Oui, merci.
lucien esnault		Ils rappellent, y a quelques minutes d'attente.
lucien esnault		Oh, un petit Calva.
gabriel fouquet		Un Calva pour monsieur.
gabriel fouquet		Pour moi, mme jeu, la mme couleur !
gabriel fouquet		Dites donc, ils ont l'air de se coucher de bonne heure en face.
lucien esnault		Ahhh ! Parce que vous tes descendu chez Quentin ! Ben vous avez pas fini de rigoler.
lucien esnault		Avec lui, si vous avez pas soif, vous serez tout de suite servi. Je sais mme pas s'il sert encore du vin  table. Hum ! Sacr Albert !
lucien esnault		Ah, on peut dire qu'il a saut la barrire, celui-l.
lucien esnault		Parce que, hein, pardon... Joyeux compagnon, mesdames ! Pas snob sur le biberon, c'est moi qui vous le dis. Allez, venez...
lucien esnault		On a bien rigol, il y a quinze ans, tous les deux. Tandem terrible, connu sur la rgion. Il fait quelques pas, suivi de Gabriel, qui a aussi pris son verre, puis il s'arrte de marcher.
gabriel fouquet		Parce que vous en ftes ?
lucien esnault		Comme vous dites. Et pas manchot. Et puis un jour, crac, fini, plus un verre, l'abstinence, le gtisme. C'est de ce jour-l qu'il a chang.
lucien esnault		On dirait qu'il y a plus que le mauvais qui ressort.
gabriel fouquet		Qu'est-ce que vous appelez le mauvais ?
lucien esnault		Ah, je dis pas qu'il a pas toujours t fou. Mais avant, il communiquait. C'est depuis qu'il a arrt de boire qu'il a mut sournois. Il est plus rien. Allez donc voir ce qui se passe l-dedans.
lucien esnault		Je ne dis pas non. Car il aurait comme un cancer ou une cirrhose du foie que je serais le premier  lui tirer mon chapeau, mais alors qu'il le dise, Bon Dieu, c'est tout ce qu'on lui demande.
lucien esnault		Tiens, a doit tre Madrid.
lucien esnault		Allo ! Allo !
lucien esnault		Oui.
lucien esnault		Ne quittez pas.
lucien esnault		C'est Madrid.
gabriel fouquet		Allo ! La rsidence Mora ?...
gabriel fouquet		Mademoiselle Claire Prvost. VOIX ESPAGNOLE  Un secondo. Le pongo.
suzanne quentin		Qu'est-ce qu'il peut bien faire l-bas ?
albert quentin		Chercher ce qu'on ne trouve plus chez nous.
suzanne quentin		Tu regrettes ?
albert quentin		Pourquoi veux-tu que je regrettes ? J'ai mes bonbons, moi.
suzanne quentin		Albert...
albert quentin		Hmmm !... Il se retourne.
suzanne quentin		Allez, viens te coucher, va.
josphine		Moi, Hitler, tout ce que j'avais  lui reprocher, c'est ses moustaches.
gabriel fouquet		Une autre bouteille !
lucien esnault		Josphine, raconte un peu  monsieur ce que tu faisais sous l'occupation.
josphine		J'crivais  la Kommandantur, et je dnonais tous les malfaisants.
josphine		Tiens, toi, je t'ai dnonc plus de dix fois pour march noir. Mais ils ont jamais voulu me croire. Contrechamp avec la camra plac dans le dos de Josphine, et montrant la table des  marins  en contrebas. Gabriel est toujours debout. Le client, qui tait auparavant install  la table voisine, se tourne vers Gabiel.
gabriel fouquet		Messieurs... Votre accueil me bouleverse, mais ne saurait garer mon jugement. J'ai tout de mme pas mal voyag, ce qui me permet de vous dire, en connaissance de cause, que votre patelin est tarte comme il est pas permis et qu'il y fait un temps de merde !
lucien esnault		Je suppose que monsieur plaisante...
gabriel fouquet		Absolument pas.
gabriel fouquet		C'est a, le soleil !
gabriel fouquet		Ahhhh !... Mais je veux pas voir de verres vides.
gabriel fouquet		Quieto !
un marin		Il est peut-tre arm !...
gabriel fouquet		Le monsieur paie !... Les gens de ma suite vont venir... ce sont des gitans... traitez-les comme moi-mme.
lucien esnault		A coups de pompe dans le train que je vais vous traiter !
gabriel fouquet		Por favor Seora !  quelle heure le train pour Madrid ?
lucien esnault		Dans cinq minutes ! Si tu te dpches pas, tu le loupes !
lucien esnault		Allez, ouste, avant que je me fche !
lucien esnault		Va l'aider  traverser la rue, il y arrivera jamais tout seul.
lucien esnault		Le Picon-bire, a pardonne pas. C'est de a que mon pauvre papa est mort ! Y a rien de plus tratre !
gabriel fouquet		J'ai but contre un pige  phoques ! L'HOMME AU BRET Ah oui, mais c'est rien que a ! Allez !...
gabriel fouquet		T'as une bonne tte, toi !
gabriel fouquet		C'est la gare ?
gabriel fouquet		Tu veux un billet de quai ?
gabriel fouquet		Allez, Ciao !
suzanne quentin		C'est lui, c'est lui qui rentre.
albert quentin		Hmm !...
albert quentin		Oh, merde !
gabriel fouquet		Salut, papa !
albert quentin		Et ben, qu'est-ce qui vous arrive ?
albert quentin		Oh, ben oui, a doit tre a !... Allez, tenez-vous bien.
albert quentin		Attention !... Allez...
gabriel fouquet		Ah, mon vieux papa !... Heureusement que je t'ai, hein ? Il viennent d'atteindre le palier.
gabriel fouquet		a t'ennuie pas que je t'appelle papa ?
albert quentin		Ben non, a m'ennuie pas.
gabriel fouquet		On va aller boire un petit verre, tous les deux, sans rien dire  personne.
albert quentin		Merci, mais moi, je ne bois pas.
gabriel fouquet		Oh ben, la seora, l, elle a peut-tre envie d'aller porter un toast ...
albert quentin		La seora, elle a surtout envie de roupiller. Allez...
gabriel fouquet		Viens, je t'emmne au Prado... Tu connais le Prado ?...
albert quentin		Un jardin avec un muse dessus. Oh, ben, c'est pas des trucs  me faire relever la nuit, a.
gabriel fouquet		Claire et moi, on y allait tout le temps. On prenait deux Prado, et on avait des rves pour cent ans.
albert quentin		C'est votre amie ?
gabriel fouquet		Ouais, c'est mon amie... une amie qui s'est tire !... C'est pas gentil, a !
albert quentin		Allez !...
gabriel fouquet		Pas beau ! Alors, tu vois, tu pas refuser de boire avec un type qu'a plus d'amie.
albert quentin		Mais je vous ai dj dit que je ne buvais pas. Allez... L...
albert quentin		Maintenant, je vais teindre, et vous allez dormir, hein ?
gabriel fouquet		J'ai une meilleure ide. Je vais faire monter deux Xrs.
albert quentin		Personne... Retournez vous coucher, Marie-Jo.
gabriel fouquet		Je vais inviter la patronne  prendre un verre.
albert quentin		Elle dort, la patronne. Tout le monde dort. Allez...
gabriel fouquet		Les manires se perdent. On s'est jamais couch si tt Madrid.
gabriel fouquet		J'espre qu'elle me fera tout de mme la grce d'assister mes dbuts aux Arnes Monumentales.
albert quentin		Je lui ferai part de votre aimable invitation.
gabriel fouquet		Y aura du monde... Luis Miguel attire toujours la foule... Y a longtemps que je rve de triompher  Madrid... Le public sera exigeant... surtout derrire Miguelito.
gabriel fouquet		Je vais tre oblig de prendre des risques.
albert quentin		Et bien, j'espre que tout se passera bien. Gabriel marche vers le milieu de la chambre. Il parle avec de grands gestes et une voix passionne.
gabriel fouquet		Je mettrai mon costume blanc... celui de mes dbuts. Vous vous souvenez de cette Novillada de Tolde ? Ce vent froid, ce public affreux... et ce taureau qui voulait pas mourir. Mais depuis, j'en ai estoqu plus de cent... Je suis le plus grand matador franais... Gabriel Fouquet, plus grand que Pierre Schul... Yo soy unico !
gabriel fouquet		a vous intresse, papa ?
albert quentin		Peut-tre...
gabriel fouquet		Qu'est-ce qui vous intresse ?... Le matador, le taureau, o l'Espagne.
albert quentin		Le voyage... votre faon de voyager.
gabriel fouquet		Ah ! a, c'est un secret.
albert quentin		Oh, la-la ! Le vhicule, je le connais, je l'ai dj pris. Et c'tait pas un train de banlieue, vous pouvez me croire. Monsieur Fouquet, moi aussi, il m'est arriv de boire. Et a m'envoyait un peu plus loin que l'Espagne. Le Yang-Ts- Kiang, vous avez dj entendu parler du Yang-Ts-Kiang ? a tient de la place dans une chambre, moi, je vous le dis.
gabriel fouquet		Sr... Et alors ?... Deux Xrs ?...
albert quentin		Je ne bois plus. Je croque des bonbons.
gabriel fouquet		Et a vous mne loin ?
albert quentin		En Chine, toujours... mais plus la mme. Maintenant, c'est une espce de Chine d'antiquaire. Quant  descendre le Yang-Ts-Kiang en une nuit, c'est hors de question. Pfft !... Un petit bout par-ci, un petit bout par-l... Et encore, pas tous les soirs.
albert quentin		Les sucreries font bouchon.
albert quentin		Allez... Bonsoir.
gabriel fouquet		Papa !
albert quentin		Oui ?...
gabriel fouquet		Je crois que j'ai rat mon train pour Madrid !
albert quentin		Monsieur Fouquet, quand on a les rves que vous avez dans la tte, on ne se tourmente pas pour un train rat. Il se rapproche du lit, et prend la rambarde du pied de lit  deux mains.
albert quentin		Savez-vous  qui vous me faites penser ? A un de ces singes gars, comme on en rencontre en Orient au moment des premiers froids...
suzanne quentin		Alors, qu'est-ce qui lui est arriv ?
albert quentin		Oh, rien, il a bu un coup de trop, c'est tout.
suzanne quentin		Vous avez parl de quoi ?
albert quentin		Offf !... De singes... De singes et de singerie...
albert quentin		Allez...
le marin		H !... T'as vu mes dorades ?... Albert serre distraitement la main du marin et continue  circuler entre les tals de poissons. Chaque marin-pcheur a dispos sa pche sur une planche pose sur deux trteaux, tout le long du quai. Albert s'approche d'un autre tal et serre la main du marin. Apparemment, concentr sur les cageots de poisson, il n'a pas vu Lucien, debout, les mains dans les poches,  l'extrmit de l'tal
le marin		Salut.
albert quentin		Combien, ces rougets ?...
lucien esnault		Ils sont bien, mais ils sont retenus. Toi aussi, je te retiens. Je te remercie pour la soire d'hier.
albert quentin		Quelle soire ? LUCIEN ESNAULT Oh, fais pas celui qui comprend pas. Ton client, l, ton Espagnol. Douze verres casss, a te dit rien ?
albert quentin		Dis donc, toi. Primo, a fait quinze ans que je t'interdis de me parler. Deuxio, si tu voulais pas qu'il boive, t'avais qu' pas le servir.
lucien esnault		Alors, l, monsieur Quentin, je te rtorque que primo, je l'ai vir. Deuxio, des ivrognes, il y en a assez dans le pays, sans que tu les fasses venir de Paris !
albert quentin		Un ivrogne ?
lucien esnault		Oh ben un peu, oui ! Mme que le pre Bardasse, qui boit quinze Pastis par jour, il en revenait pas.
albert quentin		Ahh ! Parce que tu mlanges tout a, toi, mon Espagnol, comme tu dis, et le pre Bardasse, les Grands-Ducs et les boit-sans-soif !
lucien esnault		Les Grands-Ducs ?
albert quentin		Oui, monsieur, les princes de la cuite, les seigneurs, ceux avec qui tu buvais le coup dans le temps et qui ont toujours fait verre  part. Dis-toi bien que tes clients et toi, ils vous laissent  vos putasseries, les seigneurs. Ils sont  cent milles verres de vous. Eux, ils tutoient les anges !
lucien esnault		Excuse-moi, mais, nous autres, on est encore capable de tenir le litre sans se prendre pour Dieu le Pre.
albert quentin		Mais... c'est bien ce que je vous reproche. Vous avez le vin petit et la cuite mesquine. Dans le fond, vous mritez pas de boire. Tu te demandes pourquoi il picole, l'Espagnol ? C'est pour essayer d'oublier les pignoufs comme vous !
albert quentin		Combien qu'il fait, ton lot de rougets, l ? Plan rapproch sur trois cageots plein de rougets, poss sur de la glace pile sur l'tal du marin.
lucien esnault		Je te prviens : j'en ai retenu la moiti.
albert quentin		Et bien, moi, je prends le tout. Allez, emballe-le moi, je vais venir le prendre.
lucien esnault		Dcidment, on peut plus causer de rien, avec toi, tiens.
albert quentin		T'es trop con !
suzanne quentin		Ah, tout de mme !
gabriel fouquet		Ohhh non ! Pas a ! Montez-moi un Vichy.
gabriel fouquet		H !...
gabriel fouquet		Qu'est-ce qu'on raconte dans la maison ?
gabriel fouquet		Hier soir.
gabriel fouquet		Et aujourd'hui, c'est aujourd'hui. Votre patron personnifie le bon sens. Bon, je descends.
suzanne quentin		Mais t'es compltement fou. Qu'est-ce qu'on va faire de tout a ?
albert quentin		J'en sais rien, mais je veux pas me laisser emmerder par Monsieur Esnault. Il ouvre la porte d'une chambre froide, au moment o Gabriel s'encadre dans la porte ouvert de l'office.
albert quentin		Et l'autre, il est descendu ?
albert quentin		Vous avez besoin de quelque chose, Monsieur Fouquet ?
gabriel fouquet		Je voulais vous demander pour hier soir...
albert quentin		Me demander quoi ?
gabriel fouquet		J'ai pas fait trop de foin ?
gabriel fouquet		Tant mieux. On a beaucoup bavard. J'ai pourtant pas la mmoire des noms, mais y en a un qui m'est rest grav l...
gabriel fouquet		... le Yang-Ts-Kiang.
gabriel fouquet		J'ai toujours retenu les choses compliques, comme anticonstitutionnellement... la dicte de Mrime, les rois d'gypte. J'y ajouterai le Yang-Ts-Kiang.
albert quentin		Monsieur Fouquet, je m'excuse, mais y a des heures pour bavarder et des heures pour travailler.
gabriel fouquet		Oh, moi, les heures, vous savez... Le principal, c'est que je vous aie pas contrari.
albert quentin		Ohhh ! Rassurez-vous. Pour me contrarier, faut se lever de bonne heure, ou se coucher beaucoup plus tard.
gabriel fouquet		Alors, madame Quentin, on espionne l'aimable clientle ?
suzanne quentin		Monsieur Fouquet...
gabriel fouquet		Les assassins, les voleurs, ils se nourrissent de journaux. L'homme traqu est oblig de se tenir au courant de tout. Depuis cette manie des portraits-robots, je suis oblig de changer de tte tous les jours. Je m'tais fait, je crois, hier, la tte de l'homme qui boit. Demain, de quoi sera-t- il fait ?...
suzanne quentin		Je vois que vous aimez la plaisanterie.
suzanne quentin		a vous ennuie que nous fassions quelques pas ?
gabriel fouquet		Je vous en prie.
suzanne quentin		Monsieur Fouquet, vous comptez rester longtemps chez nous ? Cette question vous surprend peut-tre...
gabriel fouquet		Elle me surprend d'autant moins que votre mari me l'a dj pose hier soir.
suzanne quentin		Et qu'est-ce que vous lui avez rpondu ?
gabriel fouquet		Que j'en savais rien.
suzanne quentin		Ah !... Remarquez, si vous devez rester que deux ou trois jours, je n'ai rien  vous dire, mais si vous comptez rester davantage...
suzanne quentin		Vous devez me prendre pour une folle. Je voulais pas vous dire a comme a.
gabriel fouquet		Monsieur Fouquet, nous sommes un mnage heureux, foutez- nous la paix. Du haut du banc, il se penche vers elle.
gabriel fouquet		C'est a, la formule brutale ?
suzanne quentin		Oui...
suzanne quentin		Je voudrais que vous compreniez. Albert est devenu parfait. J'ai peur que vous lui redonniez le got des voyages. Il pourrait penser que vous allez en Chine sans lui.
gabriel fouquet		En Espagne, madame.
suzanne quentin		Pardon ?
gabriel fouquet		Moi, c'est l'Espagne.
gabriel fouquet		Voyez, vous pouvez dormir tranquille.
suzanne quentin		videmment, si c'est l'Espagne...
suzanne quentin		Monsieur Fouquet, sans indiscrtion, vous tes venu Tigreville pourquoi ?
suzanne quentin		Pour vous reposer ? Pour vos affaires ?
gabriel fouquet		Pour achat, je cherche un magasin de confection. Vous connaissez a ?
suzanne quentin		Euh... a dpend... Pour homme ou pour femme ? GABRIEL FOUQUET Pour fillette.
suzanne quentin		Et ben, vous pourriez aller chez Landru. On l'appelle comme a  cause de sa barbe et de ses deux femmes qui sont mortes.
suzanne quentin		Vous longez la plage, c'est dans la premire rue qui monte. Au Chic Parisien .
gabriel fouquet		Merci.
gabriel fouquet		Y a quelqu'un ? Dans un miroir, on voit le propritaire des lieux qui s'approche, tenant un lapin blanc dans les bras.
landru		Ma Blanchette, petite coquine ! Hein ? Tu t'es chappe !
landru		C'est pas gentil, a, hein ! Allez, va retrouver tes petits amis.
landru		Vous vouliez quelque chose, monsieur ?
gabriel fouquet		Je voudrais un vtement chaud, un pull-over, pour fillette.
landru		Fillette ?...
landru		Fillette ?... Il y a bien longtemps que je ne fais plus dans la fillette. Quel ge ?
gabriel fouquet		Dix ans.
landru		Dix ans fort, ou dix ans faible ?
gabriel fouquet		Plutt faible.
landru		Vous ne dites pas a pour me faire plaisir ?
landru		Parce que, l, j'ai peut-tre votre affaire.
landru		Cher monsieur, nous vous attendions depuis trente ans.
gabriel fouquet		Qui a, nous ?
landru		Lui et moi.
landru		Regardez-moi a.
gabriel fouquet		J'ai peur quand mme qu'il soit un peu grand.
landru		Ah ! Ah ! J'tais sr que vous croiriez a. Tout le monde croit a. Vous ne connaissez pas les laines du Queensland ?
gabriel fouquet		Non, mais je connais ma fille.
landru		coutez-moi bien, monsieur. Non seulement, ce pull-over n'est pas trop grand, mais il ne peut pas l'tre. Vous ne me demandez pas pourquoi ?.... Parce qu'il a t tricot sur mesure pour une naine. Oui, naturellement, Puppy Schneider, a ne vous dit rien ?
gabriel fouquet		Ma foi non.
landru		Vous tes trop jeune.
landru		Puppy Schneider... Il n'y en avait que pour elle, dans les mondanits des annes vingt.
landru		Un millionnaire Amricain...
landru		... Walter Krutchen, l'avait vue dans un cirque et en tait tomb fou. Les grands hommes ont toujours aim les petites femmes, mais  ce point-l, avouez que c'est rare.
landru		C'est lui qui m'avait command ce pull-over, d'aprs une maquette de Van Dongen.
landru		La-dessus, le krach de Wall Street, en 29. Le Krutchen s'est suicid, comme vous et moi. La Puppy est retournes son cirque, et le pull-over m'est rest sur les bras.
landru		C'est pour vous dire que ce n'est pas l'acquisition banale... pas le vtement de tout le monde.
gabriel fouquet		Mais vous tes sr que Puppy Schneider ne l'a pas port ?
landru		Jur.
gabriel fouquet		Vous avez beaucoup de choses comme a, qui datent un peu ?
landru		Des choses insouponnables. Ainsi, devinez un peu sur quoi vous tes assis.
landru		Le malin !... Encore une commande Walter Krutchen pour l'anniversaire de Puppy.
landru		De quoi illuminer toute une ville. Pschhh !... Cher monsieur, au plaisir.
landru		Et si un jour, vous avez besoin de quoi que ce soit, je dis bien de quoi que ce soit...
gabriel fouquet		Je ne commettrai pas la folie de m'adresser ailleurs, soyez-en sr.
gabriel fouquet		Vous ferez porter ma note  l'htel Stella.
landru		a ne presse pas. Gabriel se dirige vers la sortie de la boutique.
landru		Cher monsieur, au plaisir.
gabriel fouquet		Vous fermez dj ?
landru		Vous m'avez bien dit de porter votre note ? Chose promise, chose due.
gabriel fouquet		Nous nous connaissons ?
gabriel fouquet		Cette nuit ?
gabriel fouquet		Je vois... Bon, et bien, je voudrais pas abuser deux fois de votre obligeance.
gabriel fouquet		Soyez bien aimable de remettre ce paquet...
gabriel fouquet		Pour les histoires de train, j'aimerais pouvoir compter sur la... enfin sur ta discrtion.
gabriel fouquet		Tu paieras ta tourne ce soir.
georgette		Monsieur, le personnel ne doit accepter aucun pourboire. Que puis-je pour vous ?
gabriel fouquet		Si vous voulez bien remettre ce paquet  la petite Marie Fouquet.
georgette		Voulez-vous me suivre au parloir.
georgette		Entrez.
georgette		Je crois que votre visite fera plaisir  tout le monde. Nous commencions  craindre que cette petite Fouquet soit compltement oublie. Vous permettez ?
georgette		Nous vrifions tous les colis destins aux pensionnaires. Vrification symbolique, bien sr.
georgette		C'est drle, je vous voyais plus g. Marie a de la chance d'avoir un papa aussi jeune.
gabriel fouquet		Oui, mais je ne suis pas son pre. Je suis un cousin... cousin loign.
georgette		Ah !... Tant pis, je vais quand mme la chercher. Si vous voulez bien attendre.
gabriel fouquet		Non...
gabriel fouquet		Je voudrais pas la dranger dans son travail.
georgette		a lui arrive si rarement.
georgette		Nothing at all, madam ! 
georgette		C'est madame la directrice.
gabriel fouquet		Je ne savais pas qu'elle tait anglaise. Sans bouger de l'escalier, Georgette lui rpond, toujours en chuchotant.
georgette		Elle ne l'est pas : elle fait semblant.
georgette		Il y a dix ans, elle s'est mis dans la tte de parler anglais.
georgette		Sans doute pour faire bien, pour pater les parents d'lve. Le plus beau, c'est qu'il a fallu que je m'y mette aussi, sans a, o est-ce qu'on allait. Les questions taient anglaises et mes rponses franaises.
gabriel fouquet		C'est ce qui a perdu Jeanne d'Arc.
georgette		Ah oui, srement... Si je vous disais, monsieur, que j'ai soign, pendant dix ans, le Gnral Marvier, hros du Bec d'Ambs. J'ai ferm les yeux d'un snateur-maire de la Cte d'Or, mon dvouement a permis  la grande Magda Golovina de remonter sur scne.
georgette		Et bien, monsieur, j'affirme que je n'ai jamais pay de ma personne comme auprs de Madame Victoria... Jamais !
madame victoria		What are you doing ? Speaking alone ?... 
gabriel fouquet		Madame...
georgette		This gentleman is a relative of Marie Fouquet. 
madame victoria		Well... What are you waiting for ? Go and fetch the girl. 
georgette		Je vous demande deux minutes.
albert quentin		Je sais pas ce qu'ils ont, mais ils se sont tous jets sur le Bordeaux, cette anne. Fais-moi donc penser  tlphoner Courtine.
suzanne quentin		Albert...
albert quentin		Hmm...
suzanne quentin		... je voudrais pas que tu prennes a mal, mais tu sais, force de vivre ensemble... je sais pas, moi, mais... on finit par deviner certaines choses, par sentir euh...
albert quentin		Sentir quoi ?
suzanne quentin		Oh... Rien de prcis, c'est seulement une ide... Mais depuis quatre jours, j'ai l'impression que t'es plus tout fait le mme. Depuis que monsieur Fouquet est l, tu te rends pas compte, mais...
albert quentin		Ah !...
albert quentin		Nous y voil. Ma bonne Suzanne, tu viens de commettre ton premier faux pas. Y a des femmes qui rvlent  leur mari toute une vie d'infidlit, mais toi, tu viens de m'avouer quinze annes de soupons, c'est pire.
albert quentin		Note bien que tu as peut-tre raison.
albert quentin		Qu'est-ce que tu veux qu'il m'arrive ? J'ai une femme qui veille sur moi, un mtier qui m'occupe, et des bonbons pour me distraire, alors...
albert quentin		D'ailleurs, je vais peut-tre les supprimer, les bonbons.
suzanne quentin		Pourquoi ? Quand une habitude n'est pas mauvaise...
albert quentin		Oh, y a pas de bonnes habitudes. L'habitude, c'est une faon de mourir sur place.
gabriel fouquet		Projet de sketch pour une publicit jumele... sous- vtements et lessive. Bon, vous y tes ?...
gabriel fouquet		En scne, Richelieu...
gabriel fouquet		Ben oui, videmment, le Cardinal !... Il coute les propos d'un capucin barbu qui lui parle  l'oreille. Soudain jaillit des coulisse un athlte, vtu d'un slip immacul.
gabriel fouquet		Il renvoie d'un geste son conseiller, et dsigne l'athlte au public en dclarant :  Je croyais que mon minence tait grise, mais le sien a la blancheur Persil ... HOTEL STELLA - SALLE  MANGER - INTRIEUR NUIT
gabriel fouquet		Bon. Deuxime projet. Ptes Lustucru  traiter en dessin anim. Un chat tente de s'introduire dans une marmite pleine de spaghettis. Albert regarde toujours Gabriel, puis il tourne la tte vers Suzanne qui se sert de la soupe.
gabriel fouquet		Le pre Lustucru :  A bas les pattes !  Le chat, avec un grand sourire...
gabriel fouquet		... avec beaucoup d'cho... C'est a, au revoir.
suzanne quentin		C'est quand mme triste un jeune homme seul devant sa soupe.
albert quentin		Bien sr que c'est triste. Seulement, si je l'invite, tu diras encore que je manigance des trucs.
suzanne quentin		Ne parlons plus de a, va.
suzanne quentin		Monsieur Fouquet !... Nous n'aurons plus de client  cette heure-l, si a vous ennuie pas de venir  notre table.
gabriel fouquet		Avec plaisir, chre madame.
gabriel fouquet		Vous permettez ?
albert quentin		Ah non. H, vous tes notre invit, hein.
albert quentin		Marie-Jo, mettez donc un couvert  monsieur Fouquet, l.
gabriel fouquet		Alors, quand on veut conjurer le diable, on l'invite  sa table.
suzanne quentin		Je ne vois pas ce que vous voulez dire, monsieur Fouquet.
albert quentin		Tenez, vous allez me goter a.
albert quentin		Marie-Jo !
albert quentin		Venez donc ouvrir la bouteille, l.
gabriel fouquet		Que ce soit la rvolution ou la paella, dites-vous bien que rien de ce qui est Espagnol n'est simple.
gabriel fouquet		Une paella sans coquillage, c'est un gigot sans ail, un escroc sans rosette, quelque chose qui dplait  Dieu. Au temps de mes amours, je confectionnais la paella comme personne. Claire me reconnaissait ce talent. J'espre que mes dboires ne m'auront pas gt la main.
albert quentin		Pourquoi buvez-vous ?
gabriel fouquet		La question m'a dj t pose, monsieur le Proviseur.
albert quentin		Probablement par des gens qui vous aiment bien.
gabriel fouquet		Probablement. Claire me la posait trois fois par semaine, elle devait m'adorer. Je croyais que vous tiez un homme ennemi des questions.
albert quentin		C'est exact, je prfre les rponses.
gabriel fouquet		C'est curieux, Claire aussi.  Gabriel, m'aimez-vous ? Gabriel, pourquoi buvez-vous ?  Croyez-vous que ce soit raisonnable de vous mettre dans cet tat-l ?  Sous prtexte de vous empcher de boire, leur rve, ce serait de nous mettre en bouteille.
albert quentin		Ohh... je crois simplement qu'elles ont la trouille.
gabriel fouquet		La trouille de quoi ? J'ai jamais eu le vin mauvais, plutt affectueux, mme grotesque.
gabriel fouquet		J'avais, en tout cas, le charme de l'imprvu.
albert quentin		Oh la-la ! Alors, l, vous tes compltement  ct, elles aiment les valeurs sres.
albert quentin		Attendre un homme et en voir arriver un autre, elles ont horreur de a, d'autant plus que la surprise est rarement bonne, faut tre juste. Non, croyez-moi, allez, j'ai des souvenirs sur la question. Je la vois d'ici, votre Claire, avec vos trente-six manires d'arriver saoul. Vous avez d lui foutre le vertige.
gabriel fouquet		Possible. ALBERT QUENTIN Ben, c'est certain. Notez bien que tout a ne me regarde pas. J'ai peut-tre un peu us de mon droit d'anciennet.
gabriel fouquet		Y a pas de mal, j'ai toujours fait plus jeune que mon ge. N'empche que j'ai une fille de dix ans.
albert quentin		Alors, l, vous tes con.
gabriel fouquet		Cette fois, vous abusez.
albert quentin		Quand on a un enfant, y a des choses qu'on n'a pas le droit de faire. Comment s'appelle-t-elle ?
gabriel fouquet		Marie. J'tais venu ici pour la chercher, et puis... Il fait un geste vague de la main. Albert ramasse son panier. Ils sortent tous deux du parc  bouchots et se remettent en marche sur la plage.
gabriel fouquet		Elle est pensionnaire au cours Dillon. Dites-moi, monsieur Quentin, puisqu'on en tait aux indiscrtions, lorsque vous tiez en Chine, vous fumiez l'opium ?
albert quentin		Ohhh... Y a rien d'indiscret. Oui, a m'est arriv, Shangha,  Hong-Kong... Mais rien de bien extraordinaire. On rvassait.
gabriel fouquet		Vous n'aimiez pas rver ?
albert quentin		Ben, a dpend de la qualit des choses. L, c'tait des rves de fusilier-marin. L'amiral Gupratte m'embrassait sur l'oreille, ou bien le th avait un got d'anisette. Des petits dlires grisants, sans plus.
gabriel fouquet		Et maintenant ?
albert quentin		Maintenant, il m'arrive de rver que je fume, a doit tre le retour d'ge.
albert quentin		Tiens ! Voil le cours Dillon. Contrechamp en plan gnral sur la plage. On voit arriver le groupe de fillettes, toutes vtues du mme manteau de couleur sombre, des mmes chaussettes blanches, et de la mme jupe cossaise. Derrire elles, une range de belles maisons normandes en bordure de plage. Elles sont mene par une matresse en manteau gris.
albert quentin		Allez, je vous laisse en famille.
gabriel fouquet		Et une bouteille  la mer !
albert quentin		Vous verrez, monsieur Fouquet, un jour, vous finirez par rver que vous buvez.
la matresse		Marie Fouquet, assez !
la matresse		Voulez-vous venir ici tout de suite ! Qu'est-ce que c'est que ces manires ? Jouez par ici.
la matresse		C'est parti !
marie fouquet		Deux, trois, quatre, cinq ! a y est !
marie fouquet		Dfense de se cacher dans le blockhaus !
premire fillette		Tu parles d'une andouille. Plan rapproch sur le visage de Gabriel, qui sort prcautionneusement de sa cachette.
premire fillette		On dira qu'elle triche, a la fera pleurer.
albert quentin		On l'appelait le Dnicheur ! Il tait rus comme une fouine. C'tait un gars qu'avait pas peur, et qui connaissait les combines. Le soir, sur les boul' extrieurs, quand on voyait passer sa dame, on s'criait sur toutes les gammes :  a, ben, c'est la femme Dnicheur .
albert quentin		Ah, dans ce temps-l, hein...
suzanne quentin		... on savait faire les chansons.
albert quentin		H oui !
suzanne quentin		Monsieur Fouquet, votre paella est une splendeur. Ah, celle qui vous pousera aura de la chance.
gabriel fouquet		Je crains, malheureusement, chre madame, qu'on ne s'attache pas une femme avec des vertus culinaires...
gabriel fouquet		... avec des vertus d'aucune sorte, d'ailleurs.
suzanne quentin		Moi, je dis qu'on peut trs bien apprcier les hommages dposs dans un plat.
suzanne quentin		Si Albert avait daign un jour faire la cuisine pour moi toute seule, j'aurais considr a comme un madrigal.
suzanne quentin		Mais il m'a jamais offert mme une omelette.
albert quentin		Ben, qu'est-ce que tu racontes ? D'octobre en avril, on est peu prs seuls. Alors, tu peux considrer que, pendant six mois de l'anne, je ne fais la tambouille que pour te rendre hommage ? Suzanne le regarde avec le sourire un peu niais de quelqu'un qui a un peu trop bu. Gabriel boit lentement son verre.
suzanne quentin		C'est vrai.
suzanne quentin		Au fond, c'est beau. Monsieur Fouquet ?... Vous connaissez La Bourboule ?
gabriel fouquet		Ma foi, non.
suzanne quentin		Et ben, vous avez tort. C'est l que j'ai connu Albert. Il tait en permission librable. Il portait un blazer rayures, et un canotier... avec ruban assorti. Bel homme, et il le savait. Marie-Jo vient dbarrasser les assiettes.
suzanne quentin		C'tait le dbut de la Biguine. Tu te rappelles le disque de Dranem ?
suzanne quentin		C'est la biguine, il n'y a rien de plus coquin.
albert quentin		Suzanne !
suzanne quentin		Oh pourquoi ! Y a pas de mal. On est que tous les trois. C'tait en juillet, y avait des mimosas. Tu portais des bottines de toile. Je m'en rappelle comme si c'tait hier.
suzanne quentin		Vous voyez, moi, j'aurais bien aim une auberge dans le midi, mais Albert a pas voulu. Il a voulu qu'on s'installe ici  cause du mauvais temps, pour qu'il y ait moins de monde, vous voyez ce que c'est que la sduction. C'est drle que vous ne connaissiez pas La Bourboule, un homme comme vous.
albert quentin		Et bien, vous voyez, elle, a la conduit  La Bourboule ! SUZANNE QUENTIN Tenez, on est entre nous... Voulez-vous que je vous dise ?...
albert quentin		Mais enfin, Suzanne, notre voyage de noces n'intresse pas monsieur Fouquet.
suzanne quentin		Vous n'aimez pas les voyages ? Albert est imbattable l- dessus. Si je vous disais qu'il connait les horaires de tous les trains d'Europe, mme les horaires de correspondance.
albert quentin		Oh, ben coute, arrte... Oh, arrte !
suzanne quentin		Oh, Albert, sois gentil, montre tes horaires  monsieur Fouquet. Marie-Jo vient dposer une corbeille de fruits sur la table. Albert ouvre un tiroir du buffet situ  ct de la table.
albert quentin		Mais a ne l'intresse pas.
gabriel fouquet		Mais si, voyons, au contraire.
suzanne quentin		Ah, tu vois ! Mme pour les petits dplacements, c'est pareil.
suzanne quentin		... sa correspondance, sa chambre d'htel retenue, tout. C'est pas quelque chose, a ?
gabriel fouquet		Je ne savais pas que vous partiez. Albert s'assoit et prend un cigare dans la boite.
albert quentin		Oh, pour deux jours. Tous les ans,  la Toussaint, je vais sur la tombe de mon pre en Picardie. Mais vous serez surement encore l  mon retour ?
gabriel fouquet		Bon, ben, je vous souhaite un bon voyage, monsieur Quentin.
suzanne quentin		Vous nous quittez dj ?
gabriel fouquet		Oui, je vais me dgourdir un peu les jambes avant de monter. Il met le cigare dans la poche de sa veste sur le porte-manteau, puis dcroche la veste.
albert quentin		Et bien, vous ne savez pas ce que vous perdez, parce que je vous avais mis de ct un vieux calva de trente ans.
gabriel fouquet		Je veux pas vous retarder. Demain, c'est dimanche, vous partez le soir, vous aurez une journe charge. Merci pour cette excellente soire.
suzanne quentin		Oh, c'tait tout simple.
gabriel fouquet		Mais familial.
suzanne quentin		Tu lui offres du calva, c'est malin ! Heureusement qu'il est raisonnable.
suzanne quentin		Tout de mme, quand je pense, du calva... Avoue que c'est une trouvaille ! C'est simple, t'aurais voulu le faire boire, tu t'y serais pas pris autrement.
albert quentin		Si. J'aurais bu avec lui.
suzanne quentin		Albert, tu parlais pas srieusement ?
albert quentin		Tu crois pas que tu ferais mieux de te coucher.
suzanne quentin		Rponds-moi d'abord.
albert quentin		coute, ma bonne Suzanne, t'es une pouse modle.
suzanne quentin		Oh !...
albert quentin		Mais si, t'as que des qualits, et physiquement, t'es reste comme je pouvais l'esprer. C'est le bonheur rang dans une armoire. Et tu vois, mme si c'tait  refaire, et bien je crois que je t'pouserais de nouveau. Mais tu m'emmerdes.
suzanne quentin		Albert !
albert quentin		Tu m'emmerdes gentiment, affectueusement, avec amour, mais tu m'emmerdes !
albert quentin		J'ai pas encore les pieds dans le trou, mais a vient, Bon Dieu, tu te rends pas compte que a vient. Et plus a vient, plus je m'aperois que j'ai pas eu ma ration d'imprvu, et j'en redemande ! T'entends, j'en redemande.
suzanne quentin		L'imprvu ? Qu'est-ce que a veut dire ? Albert lui rpond d'une voix plus calme.
albert quentin		Oh ! Rien, c'est des ides d'un autre monde. Et puis, ne parlons plus de a, va.
suzanne quentin		Parce que, tu sais, si a te manquait vraiment, si t'y pensais trop, tu pourrais... je sais pas, moi... reprendre un peu de vin au repas... un demi-verre.
albert quentin		Un demi-verre ? Dis-toi bien que si quelque chose devait me manquer, ce serait plus le vin, ce serait l'ivresse !
albert quentin		Messieurs-dames. Germaine !
albert quentin		Tiens, Suzanne, dbarrasse-moi a.
suzanne quentin		Mais c'est le petit-djeuner de monsieur Fouquet.
albert quentin		Oui, et ben,  cette heure-l, une aspirine lui suffira. TIGREVILLE - RUE HTEL STELLA - EXTRIEUR JOUR
suzanne quentin		Il est  la cuisine.
albert quentin		Mais alors ? C'est pas son droit d'tre au carrefour ?
le conducteur		Vous tes compltement cingl, non ?
gabriel fouquet		Ol ! Le conducteur, certainement affol, perd un peu le contrle de son vhicule, et se prcipite vers un groupe de personnes, masss devant une boutique d'antiquits. Les gens s'parpillent en courant. Heureusement, la voiture russit  s'arrter, sans toucher personne. Une autre voiture, une grosse amricaine, arrivant en sens inverse du centre ville, klaxonne, car son conducteur ne comprend pas la manoeuvre trange du premier vhicule.
le conducteur		I say, you're crazy ! 
gabriel fouquet		Ol ! LA FOULE Ol ! Ol ! Ol !...
gabriel fouquet		Ol !
gabriel fouquet		Ol !...
albert quentin		Alors quoi ? Qu'est-ce qu'y a ? Qu'est-ce qui se passe ?
albert quentin		Il a frein ? Et ben alors, c'est fini, n'en parlons plus.
albert quentin		Et bien, allez-y  votre plerinage, la route est libre.
albert quentin		Allez, viens, toi.
albert quentin		Mais je prends la dfense de personne. Vous voyez pas qu'il est pas dans son tat normal ?
gabriel fouquet		J'attends la prsidence pour m'offrir les oreilles ?
albert quentin		Vous pourriez pas faire un entracte, non ?
gabriel fouquet		Yo soy unico !
albert quentin		Fermez-la, mon vieux, oh, fermez-la.
gabriel fouquet		Ol, carabineros ! Como va ustedes ?
maurice		Alors, vous trouvez qu'on n'a pas assez de travail aujourd'hui. Qu'est-ce qu'il y a ?
albert quentin		Y en a pas eu, d'accident.
albert quentin		Il a bu un coup, c'est pas une affaire, quoi.
albert quentin		C'est un client  moi.
maurice		Client ! C'est pas un tat-civil, a, client ! Vous n'tes pas d'ici, hein ?
gabriel fouquet		Et vous, vous tes d'ici, avec votre accent du Cantal ?
maurice		Rodez ! Dans le Cantal ? Il est saoul comme une bourrique !
maurice		Alexandre, embarquez-moi monsieur, qu'on regarde ses papiers.
gabriel fouquet		La sortie en triomphe ! Enfin ! Regarde, public ingrat ! Arrache-toi les yeux !
gabriel fouquet		Muchas gracias, seor, seulement, je suis adulte...
albert quentin		Monsieur Fouquet, vous commencez  nous cassez les noix, on ne veut plus vous entendre, on en a marre.
gabriel fouquet		Parfait... puisqu'on peut plus rien dire, je vous attends dehors.
albert quentin		a va, c'est a, allez prendre l'air, a vous fera du bien.
albert quentin		Tu vois bien que c'est de l'enfantillage. Demain, il sera parti, et personne n'y pensera plus.
maurice		Bon, mais tu le ramnes chez toi, hein ? Que je le voie plus en train de trainer en ville. Et que a lui serve de leon.
albert quentin		Ben, j'espre, ou alors il est incorrigible.
maurice		Allo, ici la gendarmerie de Tigreville. Comment ? Qu'est-ce que vous dites ?
maurice		Y a un bouchon terrible  Hennequeville ?
gabriel fouquet		Je crois que j'ai honte.
albert quentin		Allons, mon gars, on n'a pas le droit d'avoir honte, quand on a russi une corrida comme la votre. Hein ?
gabriel fouquet		La deuxime voiture tait difficile, elle chargeait toujours  gauche, vous avez vu ?
albert quentin		Les voitures anglaises, c'est toujours comme a. C'est la dformation. Allez, venez.
gabriel fouquet		O on va ? J'irai bien prendre un verre. Pas pour boire, pour me remonter.
albert quentin		D'accord, mais pas chez Esnault.
gabriel fouquet		Dites donc...
albert quentin		Quoi ?
gabriel fouquet		Qu'est-ce que c'est que votre endroit ?
albert quentin		Et bien, les gourmands, ils disent que c'est une maison de passe et les vicelards un restaurant chinois.
gabriel fouquet		Vous y allez souvent ? ALBERT QUENTIN J'y allais.
gabriel fouquet		A votre avis, pour ce qu'on veut en faire, vaudrait mieux que ce soit canaille ou chinois ?
albert quentin		Que ce soit ferm.
georgina		C'est pas possible ! C'est un revenant ! Elle regarde Albert avec un grand sourire.
georgina		Tiens, je suis trop contente. Tu permets que je t'embrasse ?
albert quentin		Je te permets.
albert quentin		Je te prsente un matador.
georgina		Enchante, monsieur.
albert quentin		Mais je te promets pas qu'il soit tout  fait authentique.
albert quentin		Ici non plus, c'est pas trs authentique, mais avec le vent du Tibet, a peut faire illusion. Tenez, mon vieux, si je vous disais que, certains soirs, hein, derrire ce mur, l, et bien j'ai vu... Pas cru voir, hein !... J'ai vu !... Une ville, des tramways, la foule, des drames...
georgina		Qu'est-ce que je vous sers ?
albert quentin		Qu'est-ce que vous voulez comme remontant ?
gabriel fouquet		Je vous fais confiance.
albert quentin		Bon. Est-ce que tu confectionnes toujours ton espce de sak, l ?
georgina		Bien sr.
albert quentin		Alors, a sera deux.
suzanne quentin		Bien sr, a se saurait.
suzanne quentin		Vous pouvez la remonter. Maintenant, son train de huit heures...
suzanne quentin		Non.
suzanne quentin		Si a se trouve, oui.
albert quentin		A l'Amiral Gupratte !
gabriel fouquet		A el Gallo, le Divin Chauve !
albert quentin		A la gloire des fusiliers marins d'Extrme-Orient !
gabriel fouquet		A Manolete ! Tu  Linars par le taureau Isleiro !
albert quentin		Et celui-l, je le bois  mon pote Gdon, tomb dans le traquenard de Long Son !
gabriel fouquet		A Roselito, le plus grand de tous !
georgina		On a le temps, messieurs ! Si a continue, vous allez vous saouler...
albert quentin		Quand on est en perm', c'est pour a !
albert quentin		Mais qu'est-ce que tu cherches ?
gabriel fouquet		Claire, elle devait me prendre  la sortie des arnes...
albert quentin		Mais c'est de ta faute ! Si tu buvais plus vite, elle serait dj l ! Les choses entranent les choses... Le bidule cre le bidule... Y a pas de hasard ! Allez ! On rentre  la caserne.
gabriel fouquet		Ben, permets-moi au moins de t'inviter...
albert quentin		T'occupe, la Bleusaille ! J'ai touch mon arrir de solde... Alors, hein !
gabriel fouquet		Y t'ont pay avec un billet de train...
albert quentin		Tiens !...
albert quentin		Je te donne l'aller et je garde le retour... Allez, fais-en autant !
gabriel fouquet		J'peux pas... ALBERT QUENTIN T'as pas confiance ?
gabriel fouquet		J'ai pas de billet...
albert quentin		Ah ! ben alors l, t'as tort ! Faut toujours avoir un billet... Au cas... Tu comprends ? Au cas...
gabriel fouquet		Qu'est-ce que tu crois m'apprendre... J'ai pass ma vie faire des allers et retours. Instable, on appelle a.
albert quentin		Bon, ben allez, on cause de trop, on se dshydrate, hein. Allez, viens.
georgina		Bonsoir, et bonne rentre.
gabriel fouquet		Madame, j'ai t charm, positivement charm.
albert quentin		La-la-la la-la nuits de Chine, nuits d'amour ! La-la-la...
gabriel fouquet		Merde !
albert quentin		Ben c'est normal, c'est le changement de latitude. Allez, en avant ! Plan d'ensemble de la colline avec le bar au sommet et Gabriel et Albert qui descendent les marches de la colline, d'un pas un peu hsitant.
albert quentin		Merde !
albert quentin		Nuits d'amour.
gabriel fouquet		T'as le coup de pompe ?
albert quentin		Non, mais c'est l'autre vache, l, l'indigne, qui a d me filer du poison.
gabriel fouquet		T'as peut-tre plus l'habitude. Si tu veux, on peut rentrer.
albert quentin		Oh, h gamin, dis donc, h, pas de faux-fuyant. C'est pas parce que t'as estoqu deux ou trois voitures, mais... Moi, j'ai pas eu mon compte. D'abord, on va leur montrer ce qu'un jeune et un vieux peuvent faire.
gabriel fouquet		A qui a ?
albert quentin		Aux affreux ! Allez viens.
albert quentin		Deux Calvas !
lucien esnault		Sois le bienvenu, Albert.
lucien esnault		Je me disais toujours : a peut pas durer, on le reverra un jour. Et te revoil... comme au bon vieux temps. Tiens ! Je me sens vingt ans de moins.
gabriel fouquet		T'es qui ?
lucien esnault		Oh, toi, tu ferais mieux de t'en tenir l avant que tes espagnolades te reprennent !
gabriel fouquet		Monsieur Esnault, si la connerie n'est pas rembourse par les assurances sociales, vous finirez sur la paille.
lucien esnault		Dis donc, petit malpoli, tu veux que je t'apprenne ?
albert quentin		Monsieur Esnault, je vous interdis de tutoyer mon homme de barre. Je vous ai dj dit que vous n'tiez pas de la mme famille.
lucien esnault		Alors, toi, je te prviens, si t'es venu pour me donner des ordres, je vais vous virer tous les deux  coups de pompe dans le train !
madame esnault		Lucien !...
albert quentin		Et ce n'est qu'un coup de semonce.
lucien esnault		Ah ! Ah ! Laisse-le moi, hein !
madame esnault		Partez, ou j'appelle les gendarmes !
josphine		Ils ont dj eu affaire  eux ce matin. Ils n'auraient pas d les relcher !
un client		Mais laisse-les donc, ils sont ronds comme des boules.
albert quentin		Oui, messieurs, pleins comme la mer. Ensuqu  rabord ! Y a longtemps que vous attendiez a, hein ? Et ben, a y est ! Comme a, vous pourrez causer et gayer vos soires d'hiver ! Ah !
gabriel fouquet		Albert...
gabriel fouquet		Ils me font mal aux yeux, tirons-nous.
albert quentin		On n'appartient pas au mme bataillon.
lucien esnault		Et les calvas, qui c'est qui va les payer ?
albert quentin		Adressez-vous  l'intendance. Nous, on paye plus, on ne connait plus, on ne salue plus.
gabriel fouquet		On mprise.
albert quentin		Quoi ?
gabriel fouquet		J'ai peur que ta femme soit pas contente.
albert quentin		Parle pas de femmes en patrouille.
gabriel fouquet		Juste... Le vent commence  frachir. T'as prvu un mouillage ?
albert quentin		Blangy, dans la Somme. Faut que je te prsente  mon pre. Gabriel s'arrte de marcher.
gabriel fouquet		Albert...
albert quentin		Qu'est-ce qu'y a encore ?
gabriel fouquet		Blangy, c'est pas possible.
albert quentin		Alors, l, tu seras port dserteur. En oprations, tu sais o a mne ?
gabriel fouquet		Je peux pas partir d'ici... pas tout seul, tu comprends ? J'ai une mission.
albert quentin		Une mission ?... Ah, ben l, tu tombes dans ma spcialit. Il s'agit de quoi ?
gabriel fouquet		Chhhhut !...
gabriel fouquet		Je t'ai parl de ma fille ?
albert quentin		La petite Marie ? GABRIEL FOUQUET C'est a. Et ben, elle est pas heureuse, la petite Marie. Et ben, faut que j'aille la chercher et que je la ramne avec moi.
albert quentin		Et ben, on y va.
gabriel fouquet		Albert !...
gabriel fouquet		Tu peux pas, tu peux pas. Mais t'es marrant, toi. Qu'est-ce que a veut dire, tu peux pas ? Hein ?
albert quentin		Ta-la-la la-laaa...
albert quentin		Ti-la-la la-laaa... Ta-la-la la-laaa... La-la la-laaa... Ta-la-lala-la...
albert quentin		Ti-la-la la-laaa...
albert quentin		Ti-la-la la-laaa...
albert quentin		La-la la-la...
albert quentin		Ti-la-la la-laaa... Ti-la-la la-laaa...
albert quentin		Bon, ben... A premire vue, les dfenses ont l'air assez faible.
albert quentin		Alors, inutile de contourner, on va prendre a en force. Allez ! Je me mets en flche, et puis tu me files le train.
gabriel fouquet		H !... Excuse-moi, Mais c'est pas  toi de prendre les commandes, il s'agit tout de mme de ma fille.
albert quentin		D'accord... D'accord !...
gabriel fouquet		C'est peut-tre que j'ai la langue charge.
albert quentin		Oh !... Ben qu'est-ce tu fous ? Tourne-toi de l'autre ct, voyons.
gabriel fouquet		Albert ! ALBERT QUENTIN Quoi ?
gabriel fouquet		Regarde !
gabriel fouquet		C'est moi, le Christ !
albert quentin		Ah !.... Ah !... Ah !...
gabriel fouquet		H, Albert, h, me laisse pas ! Albert !...
albert quentin		Oh !... Oh !...
gabriel fouquet		Oh ben, a roupille l-dedans, dis donc... Y a une sonnette...
gabriel fouquet		Y a une sonnette ?
gabriel fouquet		Oh, ben, les voil qui se rveillent, tiens !
albert quentin		Ah ! Enfin ! Ah ben, dis donc !
gabriel fouquet		Ah, ben voil !
albert quentin		H, branle-bas de combat, l-dedans !... Branle-bas de combat, je te dis, l-dedans ! Hein ! Plan rapproch sur la porte d'entre du manoir.
albert quentin		Allez, comme en 14, investissons l'ouvrage.
albert quentin		Ben alors, on se fout de nous, oui ? Mais, ma parole, c'est le soufflet au Sultan ! Oh, Bon Dieu !
albert quentin		Si j'avais un obusier de 37, je te ferais sauter a, et puis vite fait !
gabriel fouquet		Arrte !
albert quentin		Quoi ?
gabriel fouquet		Ils envoient un plnipotentiaire.
albert quentin		Ah ben, c'est pas trop tt.
georgette		C'est vous, monsieur Quentin, qui faites tout ce raffut ? Albert la pousse et se faufile  l'intrieur du btiment, suivi par Gabriel.
albert quentin		Mission exceptionnelle !
georgette		Monsieur Quentin, j'avais cru entendre dire que vous poursuiviez une convalescence souhaitable. Vous devriez avoir honte !
gabriel fouquet		Elle croit parler  ses niards ? ALBERT QUENTIN Mais il a raison ! Quartier-matre Quentin, du Corps Expditionnaire d'Extrme-Orient !
albert quentin		On vient reprendre livraison de la fillette de monsieur. Et si elle n'est pas livre dans les trois minutes, je ne rponds pas de la raction du papa !
georgette		Le papa ?
gabriel fouquet		C'est moi.
georgette		C'est nouveau, a !
gabriel fouquet		Pas tellement, non.
georgette		Mais vous avez pourtant dit, l'autre jour que...
albert quentin		Attention, les minutes tournent ! MADAME VICTORIA Who are they ? What's going on ? What does this people want ? 
albert quentin		Ahhh !... Ben si l'Anglais est dj dans la place, alors je ne m'tonne plus de rien. !
madame victoria		I... I don't understand. What do you mean ? 
albert quentin		Tu vas voir comment je les traite, moi, les Anglais.
albert quentin		Tiens donc ! Comme le colonel Lawrence tait arabe ! Perfidie lgendaire ! Mais pas avec moi. Je les connais, moi, tous vos trucs.
madame victoria		I do not share this gentleman's opinion about England. But, most important, first we must ascertain whether this gentleman is really the father of our little Marie Fouquet. For the moment, gentlemen, it will be best for you to go. We can attend everything to-morrow morning. 
madame victoria		And for the child's sake, I do hope that you will be more presentable. Georgette, will you see them to the door, please. 
gabriel fouquet		Elle a dit :  demain.
albert quentin		Mais c'est Fachoda !
gabriel fouquet		Dis donc, si on envisageait un repli ?
albert quentin		Mais pourquoi pas une retraite ?
albert quentin		Moi, je trouve que c'est amener les couleurs un peu vite !
albert quentin		Estafette, faites savoir au chef de poste qu'on est d'accord pour remettre l'affaire  demain, mais demain matin, pas plus.
albert quentin		Et si,  dix heures, la fillette n'est pas  mon PC avec armes et bagages, et ben, vous entendrez parler des hussards de la mort ! Considrez a comme un ultimatum.
georgette		Bien, monsieur Quentin, on transmettra.
gabriel fouquet		T'as forc un peu dans l'pouvante, mais t'as eu des moments romains.
albert quentin		Toujours. Quelle belle nuit, hein ?
gabriel fouquet		J'aimerais t'emmener en Andalousie, les nuits sont bleues. Albert se retourne.
albert quentin		Ohh !... Mais en Chine aussi, monsieur, quand tu descends vers le Sud. Tu sais pas ce qu'il faudrait ?
albert quentin		Et ben, faudrait illuminer tout a, peindre tout a en rouge. Ben, on peut tout de mme pas y foutre le feu... note bien qu'en y rflchissant...
gabriel fouquet		Tais-toi. Laisse-moi me rappeler... La frie lumineuse... Le 14 juillet en boutique... O est-ce que j'ai entendu a, bon sang ? Parce que je l'ai entendu et vu... Si vous avez besoin de quoi que ce soit, je dis bien de quoi que ce soit... Un barbu...  Au Chic Parisien  !
albert quentin		Landru !
gabriel fouquet		C'est a ! Il a une caisse, l, pleine de fuses, un stock faire sauter Versailles.
albert quentin		Embrasse-moi, mec !
albert quentin		Tiens, t'es mes vingt ans ! Nickel, Champion du Monde ! On y va !
gabriel fouquet		Si vos ptards sont  la hauteur de votre Beaujolais, on va nous entendre du Havre !
landru		Oh-oh, pour pter, a ptera, j'en rponds... comme de moi- mme. a date pourtant de trente ans, mais inaltrable. Sign Ruggieri.
gabriel fouquet		Albert...
albert quentin		Quoi ?
landru		Was ist das ? Il n'a jamais t question de jouer  a sans moi, ne serait-ce que pour des raisons de survie. La pyrotechnie, messieurs, exige un savoir livresque et un tour de main absolument insouponnable.
albert quentin		Bon, ben, allez, quoi, allons-y ! On n'oublie rien ?
landru		Rien !
landru		Le programme est assur. Vingt-trois marrons d'air, dix bombes toiles multicolores, les ventails  surprise, dix phlox rotatifs, et un jardin suspendu.
albert quentin		Alors, l, messieurs, a va tre dantesque ! On va le repeindre, leur ciel !
madame esnault		Mai si, c'est bien un feu d'artifice, je le vois bien !
lucien esnault		a vient de par l.
madame esnault		Lucien ! Fais attention ! O vas-tu ?
lucien esnault		Alors, madame Quentin, il parat qu'Albert est sur la plage !
landru		Une verte maintenant, Quentin !
landru		Et une rouge !
albert quentin		Et maintenant, une tricolore ! On fait plus de dtail. Gros plan sur la fuse allume par Quentin.
albert quentin		A vous de jouer, mon cher.
gabriel fouquet		Albert, j'en ferai rien. Quand il s'agit de faire sauter la ville, honneur  l'autochtone.
albert quentin		L'autochtone n'en fera rien, tirez le premier !
landru		A vos chandelles romaines !
landru		Prsentez torches !
landru		A mon commandement, feu !
landru		A nos morts !
albert quentin		A nos morts !
gabriel fouquet		A nos morts !
albert quentin		Hong-Kong, la Cucaracha, Singapour et la petite Tonkinoise !
gabriel fouquet		La Puerta del Sol !
albert quentin		Et la fte continue !
maurice		Arrtez cette plaisanterie, je vais vous coffrer, moi ! Plan moyen sur les trois hommes sur la plage. Ils ne rient plus.
landru		Ils ont amen les guignols !
maurice		Je vous dis d'arrter cette plaisanterie ! Oh mais...
landru		La dlation, messieurs, rclame un chtiment. A nous les explosifs !
albert quentin		Joli temps pour les artilleurs !
gabriel fouquet		Aimable barbiflore, passez-moi les ptards !
landru		L, dans la caisse. C'est dans la boite.
gabriel fouquet		Puisque vous n'avez rien de mieux.
landru		La grenade offensive n'est pas courante en mercerie.
gabriel fouquet		On va tcher de faire avec.
albert quentin		Qu'est-ce qu'y a l-bas dedans ?
landru		Attention ! a pte !
albert quentin		Gendarme, faites vacuer les femmes et les enfants, je vais raser le littoral !
gabriel fouquet		Nous allons rayer la Normandie de la carte ! Feu !
albert quentin		L'ennemi est en fuite, mais maintenant une retraite s'impose, messieurs.
landru		Chacun pour soi. Moi, je vais me baigner.
albert quentin		Descendons le Yang-Ts-Kiang. C'est tout droit. Viens.
albert quentin		Oh !... oh !...
albert quentin		Vous croyez pas qu'il serait temps de rentrer.
gabriel fouquet		Rentrer o ? J'ai toujours entendu dire que, dans les cas de reniement, on entendait le coq chanter.
albert quentin		Oui, et ben, on parlera de a plus tard, parce que j'ai un train  prendre.
gabriel fouquet		Vous allez toujours  Blangy ?
albert quentin		H oui, mon pre a l'habitude que je sois l. Alors je serai l, pas brillant, mais l. Et vous, vous rentrez Paris ?
officier anglais		La France nous a toujours montr le chemin de la libert.
officier anglais		Libert, libert chrie, comme disait votre grand pote Victor Hugo. C'est au nom de cette libert que sont tombs les victimes de la prodigieuse bataille dont cette petite plage franaise fut le thtre tragique.
officier anglais		Tragique, mais glorieux. Qu'il me soit permis de remercier plus particulirement cette anne monsieur le maire et messieurs les conseillers municipaux pour le magnifique feu d'artifice...
marie fouquet		Papa ! Que je suis contente !
marie fouquet		Alors, c'est vrai que tu m'emmnes ?
gabriel fouquet		Mais bien sr que te t'emmne.
marie fouquet		Dis donc, tu piques !
albert quentin		Alors, moi, personne m'embrasse, mais je pique aussi. Je vais me raser.
suzanne quentin		Je savais pas  quelle heure tu rentrerais, j'ai fait remonter ta valise, c'est idiot.
albert quentin		Ben oui, oh...
marie fouquet		Au revoir, madame Quentin.
suzanne quentin		Au revoir, ma petite Marie.
suzanne quentin		Je t'attends mardi au train de six heures ?
albert quentin		Ben, bien sr.
suzanne quentin		T'oubliera pas ton changement  Lisieux ?
albert quentin		Tss-tss !... N'aie pas peur. SUZANNE QUENTIN Oh, j'ai pas peur. Je regrette que la petite Marie n'ait pas vu le feu d'artifice. C'tait formidable.
albert quentin		Ils sont pas prts d'en revoir un comme a, va. Allez, au revoir.
marie fouquet		C'est o que tu changes de train ?
albert quentin		Ben, a va pas tarder.
marie fouquet		T'as pas le temps de me raconter une autre histoire ? Juste une. ALBERT QUENTIN Ben, si tu veux, mais alors, c'est la dernire. Et puis elle est vraie, celle-l.
albert quentin		Alors, coute. En Chine, quand les grands froids arrivent, dans toutes les rues des villes, on trouve des tas de petits singes gars sans pre, ni mre. On sait pas s'ils sont venus l par curiosit ou bien par peur de l'hiver, mais, comme tous les gens l-bas croient que mme les singes ont une me, ils donnent tout ce qu'ils ont pour qu'on les ramne dans leurs forts, pour qu'ils retrouvent leurs habitudes, leurs amis.
albert quentin		Et c'est pour a qu'on voit des trains pleins de petits singes qui remontent vers la jungle.
albert quentin		Ah, on arrive.
albert quentin		Allez, au revoir, ma belle.
albert quentin		Non, non, ne vous drangez pas.
albert quentin		Allez, au revoir.
gabriel fouquet		Au revoir.
marie fouquet		Dis, papa, tu crois qu'il en a vu, des singes en hiver ?
gabriel fouquet		Je pense qu'il en a vu au moins un.
****Dialogues from script :Unbreakable.txt****

october.eighth.ninety-nine		written by m.night.shyamalan
saleswoman		This is Mr. Mathison. He's a doctor.
saleswoman		An ambulance is on the way.
woman		Elijah.
woman		Is he supposed to be crying like that?
woman		Can I have him back?
older saleswoman		Nothing. It was very quick. The baby just wanted to come right out. There was no problems.
older saleswoman		Jesus Christ, no.
david		Someone left these. You want one?
david		You like sports?
woman		It's my field. I represent athletes. I'm an agent.
david		What a coincidence? I'm a male synchronized swimmer and I'm looking for representation.
david		But I'm afraid of water, so that's been holding my career back a little bit.
david		You represent someone in Philadelphia?
woman		I'm meeting a player from Temple University. He's a cornerback. You like football?
david		Not really.
woman		This kid is six foot two, two hundred and forty pounds. He runs the fifty in under six seconds. He's going to be a God.
david		I'm David Dunne.
woman		Kelly.
david		How long are you staying in Philly?
kelly		Sorry.
david		I think you got the wrong idea.
kelly		I'm going to find another seat.
megan		You okay, Virginia?
megan		I'll put something on the t.v. Maybe we'll find some almost naked guys to inspire you.
david		Okay.
david		Fine.
david		Against a window.
david		Yes. Where are the rest of the passengers?
david		No.
david		No.
david		Yes... Why are you looking at me like that?
jeremy		I told you!
jeremy		They thought everybody on the train died.
jeremy		I told them they were wrong.
jeremy		Mom even cried.
jeremy		A lot.
megan		Not a lot.
jeremy		Let's go home.
david		I don't think I got the job in New York.
megan		What does that mean?
david		I'm still going to New York. Just not this second.
megan		I don't want to drag this out too long for Jeremy.
david		I know.
david		How about in the meantime, you don't sleep in the guestroom anymore?  You sleep in our room. I'll sleep down here.
megan		It stopped being our room a long time ago.  You should go up and get some rest.
david		Jeremy, why don't you go sleep with your mom?
david		I think it's be better if I was alone.
david		How about your room then? If you get scared like before, you can come back in here?
mother		We'll play the water pistol game next.
mother		Elijah...
elijah		I won't get hurt momma! I'm safe!
priest		Sarah Elaston, social worker at Broad and Locust Community Center. We pray for your soul.  Glen Stevens, researcher in the area of Leukemia at Drexel University. We pray for your soul.
priest		...Jennifer Pennyman, third grade teacher at Jefferson Elementary.  We pray for your soul.
david		I used to play football in college. In my first year as quarterback, we went on this winning streak. It just went on and on. It didn't matter who we played... I'd always win.  I was the only person to survive that accident. The only one... It feels like it means something.
priest		Are you a religious man, David?
priest		Good. Because I'm going to talk to you as a man. Not as a man of the cloth.
david		Okay.
priest		It was luck.
david		What do you mean?
priest		Luck... Random... Without meaning.
priest		Three years ago, my cousin died on a plane that crashed on take off at Philadelphia International airport. Do you remember that crash?
priest		I prayed and prayed and finally found some meaning in the event. It gave me peace... And then not quite a year later, an entire family from my parish burned to death in a hotel fire downtown...  Just two days ago, my nephew rode with you on that train back from New York. He was traveling alone for the first time.
priest		I'm sorry if I can't react to your survival with the appropriate 'It was the hand of God. It was a miracle.' kind of answer... I'm fresh out of those right now.
priest		My twelve year old nephew's neck was broken in four places... What's your point? You were chosen?  I don't think so.
ancient secretary		Yes?
david		Is Noel in?
ancient secretary		No sir he is not.  I read about you in the paper.
david		Oh.
ancient secretary		I was in an accident once too. A horse almost trampled me to death.
david		Wow.
ancient secretary		I had to put him down.
david		That's a sad story.  Do you think you could ask Noel something for me?
ancient secretary		Proceed.
david		Ask if he can check how many sick days I've taken since I've worked here?
ancient secretary		Is that the entire message?
david		Yes.
david		You know what I think about to calm down? I think about those big fat, hundred and twenty pound turtles that live in the islands. Those suckers never get angry, never get in fights and live longer than all of us and all they do all is sit on the beach and hump other turtles.  Why don't we take a second and think about the turtles?
father		Yeah Jerry why don't you think about the fat ass turtles... Like your fat ass son on the field jeopardizing the rest of our chances at a fucking championship.
david		Hey Noel.
noel		Forty dollars.
david		What?
noel		You're getting a forty dollar raise per week... that's it.
noel		I checked. You were right. You've never taken a sick day.  Five years, no sick days. I get it. You want a raise. You made your point.
noel		All right fifty dollars and that's the god damn limit.  Are we done here?
elijah's mother		No more sitting in this room. I've let it go on long enough.
elijah		I'm not going out anymore. I'm not getting hurt again. This was the last time. I told you.
elijah's mother		You can't do anything about that. You might fall between that chair and this television. If that's what God has planned for you, that's what's going to happen. You can't hide from it in your room.
elijah		They call me Mr. Glass at school. Cause I break like glass.
elijah's mother		...You make this decision now to be afraid...  And you'll never turn back your whole life. You'll always be afraid.
elijah's mother		...I got a present for you.
elijah		Why?
elijah's mother		Forget why. Do you want it or not?
elijah's mother		Well, go get it then.
elijah		Where is it?
elijah's mother		On a bench, across the street.
elijah's mother		You calling me a liar?
elijah		Someone's gonna take it.
elijah's mother		Then you better get out there soon.
elijah's mother		I bought a whole bunch. They'll be one of these waiting for you, every time you want to come out here.
elijah's mother		They said this one has a surprise ending.
man		This is from Fritz Champion's own library. This is before the first issue of the comic book hit the
elijah		It's a classic depiction of good versus evil. Notice the square jaw of Slayer - common in most comic book heroes. And the slightly disproportionate size of Jaguaro's body to his head. This again is common, but only in villains... The thing to notice about this piece... The thing that makes it very, very special... is its realistic depiction of its figures. When the characters eventually made it into the magazine they were exaggerated... as always happens.  This is vintage.
business man		Wrap it up.
elijah		You've made a considerably wise decision.
business man		My kid's gonna go berserk.
elijah		Once again please?
business man		My son Jeb. It's a gift for him.
elijah		How old is Jeb?
business man		Four.
elijah		No.
elijah		No, no, no, no no... You need to go now.
business man		What did I say?
elijah		Do you see any Telletubbies around here?... Do you see a slender plastic tag clipped to my shirt with my name printed on it?... Do you see a little Asian child with a blank expression sitting outside in a mechanical helicopter that shakes when you put a quarter in it?... No?... Well that's what you see at a toy store? Any you must think this is a toy store, cause you're in here shopping for an infant named Jeb. One of us has made a gross error and wasted the other person's valuable time...
elijah		This is an art gallery my friend. This is piece of art...
elijah		This is one of seventeen original drawings by Fritz Champion remaining in the world. It's value will triple every year... This piece is to be treasured. To be cherished... To be coveted by every single one of your banker friends that think they're better than you.
business man		What if I kept it?
elijah		I'm listening.
business man		I'll keep it in my office room.
elijah		What about Jeb?
business man		I have a lock on the door.
elijah		Will it be near a window?
businessman		No direct sunlight will fall on it.
elijah		Come back in three days. I'll think about it.
elijah		We're by appointment only.
man		I received a card from your store.
elijah		Congratulations, you have a mailbox... The sale isn't for two weeks.
man		This one was under the windshield of my car.
elijah		You've never been sick?
david		I don't know for sure.  ...I don't think so.
elijah		Well if this ain't a riddle worthy of the Riddler?
elijah		So let's get some of the usual questions out of the way. Why am I using a cane? Raise your hand if you were thinking that.
elijah		I fractured my leg. It's the fifth time I've done that particular bone. It didn't really heal well this time.
elijah		Raise your hand is you're wondering who the hell breaks the same bone five times?
elijah		I have something called Osteogenesis Imperfecta. It's a genetic disorder. I don't make this particular type of protein very well and it makes my bones very low in density, very easy to break. I've had fifty-four breaks in my life. I have the tamest version of the disorder... Type one.  That ends our lecture on the medical anomaly known as Elijah Price.
elijah		How certain are you that you haven't been sick in your life?
david		Seventy-five percent.
elijah		Seventy-five percent? That's not nearly good enough for me. I'm extremely skeptical.
david		Skeptical about what?
elijah		Your answer to my question. It's one thing to have never been injured in your life, but to state that you've never taken ill, well that's a whole new level.
jeremy		Dad's been injured.
elijah		What's he talking about?
david		In college. A car accident.
elijah		Was it serious?
jeremy		He couldn't play football anymore.
elijah		I assumed because of the train.
david		You assumed wrong.
elijah		It's over.  You can go now.
david		I think you skipped a couple steps.
david		You forgot the "Now I'm going to tell you what the hell is going on" step. See usually that comes before the, "It's over" Step. And it always, always comes before the "You can go" Step.  What is over?
elijah		The life of an idea that has lived too long in my head.
elijah		There are probably only four or five individuals in the world who can claim more knowledge of comics than myself. I've spent a third of my life in a hospital bed with nothing else to do but read. I have studied the form intimately. I have seen the patterns in them... The references to social and cultural events and the atmosphere that surrounded them. I've come to believe that comics are our last link to the ancient way of passing on history.
elijah		The Egyptians drew pictures on walls about battles, and events. Countries all around the world still pass on knowledge through pictorial forms.  I believe that comics, just at their core now... have a truth. They are depicting what someone, somewhere felt or experienced. Then of course that core got chewed up in the commercial machine and gets jazzed up, made titillating - cartooned for the sale rack.
elijah		This city has had its share of disasters. Well publicized ones. It was around the time of that plane crash, when it first entered my head. And there it stayed, as I waited and watched the news over the years...  And just like that, an idea blossoms into the flower of possible reality.
david		What was your idea Elijah?
jeremy		You thought my dad was a real-
david		Jeremy don't take another sip of that drink.
david		Throw it in the trashcan near the door and wait for me outside. Do it now please.
david		At the church... You were following me weren't you?
elijah		Technically no. I gambled that you would attend the church service. I just waited for you.
david		What's this about? This is obviously some scam. Is this where you tell me one of those pictures is like an investment?
elijah		You've misunderstood.
david		I see guys like you all the time in my work. You find someone you think is emotionally vulnerable and you tell them a fantastic story, utterly convincing... and somewhere in there, you slip it in... 'I just need your credit card number','I just need a small down payment.'
david		Did you know that this morning was the first morning I can remember, that I didn't open my eyes and feel that sadness... Do you know what I'm talking about? That little bit of sadness?  But I guess that's what you were counting on.
david		I'm going to leave now.  Good luck with your sale.
elijah		What type of job do you have David?
elijah		You mentioned you've met 'guys like me' in your work.  What type of job would that be?
david		I work at the stadium as a security guard.
walkie		Dunne, it's Jenkins, we got a guy at gate 17C with a bogus ticket. Says he knows you. He won't tell me his name.
walkie		He's got the most beautiful eyes... The hell kind of question is that? He's a guy.
walkie		Consider him packed. I didn't like his attitude... Struttin around with a cane and shit.
elijah		They said I couldn't get in with my ticket.
david		It's for last week's game.
elijah		I've come to understand that...  An ill advised purchase in the parking lot.
david		What do you want?
elijah		Not money.  But I appreciate your healthy cynicism in the manner. It will be wise for both of us to proceed with greatest caution.
david		We're not proceeding anywhere together.
elijah		We've already begun.
david		One more time. What is it you want?
elijah		Why is it, do you think, that of all the professions in the world... you chose protection?
david		Are you for real?
elijah		You could have poured coffee in Starbucks, you could have learned to install track lighting in office buildings, you could have told people their horoscopes on the internet... You could have been one of ten thousand things... but in the end, you chose to protect people. You made that decision... and I find that very, very interesting.  Now all I need is your credit card number.
elijah		That last part was a joke.
david		I got this job because my college coach called the guy who manages the stadium. There's no hidden meaning to it.
david		They need me at the gate.
david		Did you really want to see the game? I can get you in.
david		It gets heaviest ten minutes before kickoff.
david		Why don't we pat down?
david		Just give me a minute.
elijah		Is there a problem?
david		That guy in green. Sometimes people carry weapons in here. Then they drink too much. They're team isn't doing so well, bad things happen... We do random pat downs of the crowd to discourage people from carrying.  If he's carrying, he'll step out of line.
david		I got you a seat in the seven hundred level.  It's nose-bleed territory, but at least you won't get spit on.
elijah		How did you know that man you bumped was carrying a weapon?
david		Probably the army jacket. Those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show.
elijah		You thought he was carrying a knife?
david		I thought he was carrying something.
elijah		But not a knife?
david		I got this picture of a silver handled gun tucked in his pants.  Like on t.v.
elijah		You have good instincts when it comes to things like that?
david		Like what?
elijah		Telling when people have done something wrong?
david		Yes.
elijah		Have you ever tried to develop it?
david		I don't know what you're asking?
elijah		You're skill.
david		Listen. I got to be on the sidelines during the game... You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at-
elijah		Characters in comic books are often attributed special powers. X-ray vision, things of that sort.
david		Okay, I don't want to play this game anymore.
elijah		It's an exaggeration of the truth. Maybe it's based on something as simple as instinct. Like being able to touch someone and tell whether they've done something wrong... Or the level of what they've done wrong.
david		The guy might not have been carrying anything.
elijah		Or he might have been carrying a silver handled gun tucked in his pants.
david		I have to go now.
elijah		One last question.
david		Quick.
elijah		The car accident you were in... Was there anyone else involved?
david		Yes. My wife Megan. She was in the car with me.
david		Have a good life Elijah and try to buy your tickets at an authorized sales location.
jeremy		Was it sold out?
david		You know how mad your mom would be if she knew you were playing football?
jeremy		Are you going to tell?
jeremy		You want yo play the last downs? We got a big guy like you. You can play on opposite sides.
jeremy		He's Potter's cousin. He's the starting corner back for Temple University.
jeremy		He going pro in the draft. They say he can run the fifty-
david		In under six seconds.  I've heard.
david		I'm going to go in.
jeremy		Just play one set of downs. I told them you were great.
david		Why'd you do that?
jeremy		Just one-
david		Jeremy.  I'm going in. I have to do some things.
jeremy		What things?
david		I'm going to work out.
jeremy		I'll help you.
david		There's nothing to do.
david		Why don't you rest now? I'll take it from here. You've been a big help.
jeremy		You think you could beat up Mike Tyson? I mean before he started wiggin out and eating people's ears?
david		No.
jeremy		What if you worked out everyday for six months? You think you could beat him then?
david		No.
jeremy		What if you only ate foods that were good for you and you worked out everyday for a year?
david		No.
david		How much did you put on there?
david		You put too much. That's two hundred and fifty pounds.
jeremy		How much can you lift?
david		That's the most I've ever lifted.  That could have been dangerous Jeremy. Why don't you go upstairs and let me finish up?
jeremy		I'll take it off. I'll help you right.
jeremy		You think you could have beaten up Bruce Lee?
david		No.
jeremy		I mean if you knew karate?
david		No Jeremy.
jeremy		What if he wasn't aloud to kick and you were really mad at him?
david		No.
david		How much did you take off?
jeremy		I lied.
david		You added?
david		Okay.
david		Why don't you move back a bit? Just to be safe.
jeremy		More?
david		You should never try anything like this. You know that right?
david		What do you do if something happens?
david		How many did you put on that time?
david		There's no more left?
david		What else can we use?
david		Yeah, hello.
david		Megan?
david		Yeah? Megan where are you calling from?
david		I remember you.
david		Yeah it might be nice.
david		...When you work with clients on machines, do they sometimes just jump up a level or two? Do something they didn't know they were capable of?
megan		Not often, but it is possible. Most people get scared when they see the shadow of their limits. They don't know how long the shadow really is. They don't know how far away the real limits are standing... They stop out of fear.
megan		This is kind of strange isn't it?
megan		We're not even acting like ourselves.
megan		Like that. Your mouth's dirty. You tapped your napkin to your lips. You only do that when you're with someone you don't know.
david		What do I do when I'm around someone I know?
megan		You use your sleeve.
woman		I thought it was you.
megan		Hi.  This is Claire. Her son is in Jeremy's class. Claire and I worked on the school food drive together.
david		Hello.
claire		I'm very happy about this. Megan mentioned to me she was considering dating again.
david		David.
claire		David?
megan		This is my husband.
david		Okay.
david		Thank you.
david		His room?
david		Jeremy.
elijah		They call me Mr. Glass.
elijah		Kids.
janis		Your ten o'clock is here. The hospital discharged him this morning.
megan		Thanks.
megan		Elijah right?
megan		We're going to prevent any substantial atrophy of your good leg with this.  It works the quadriceps.
elijah		How long have you been married?
megan		Twelve years.
elijah		How did you get together?
megan		A car accident.
elijah		Now you're going to have to tell me more.
megan		...See my husband was a big football star in college and we were in an accident together. Our car flipped on an icy road. We were both injured. He couldn't play football anymore.  If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't have been together.
elijah		How so?
megan		Football wasn't the kind of life I wanted... For ten years I'd be by the phone waiting for a call telling me he broke his neck in a practice game. And if it wasn't that call, it would be a call telling me he blew out his knee or suffered his third concussion. I've seen way too much of it in my job... I can barely take it when my clients are in pain.  It's not a thing many people would understand.
elijah		You and my mother would have a special connection.
megan		Any way, fate stepped in and took football out of the equation.
elijah		...And everyone lived happily ever after.
megan		Sort of.
elijah		What part of David's body was injured?
megan		Who said my husband's name is David?
stocky woman		Choose.
elijah		There have been three major disasters in this city over the last four years. I've followed each one of them... A Seven-three-seven crashes on take off. One hundred and seventy-two die. No survivors... A hotel fire downtown. Two hundred and eleven die. No survivors... And am Amtrak train derails seven and half miles outside of the city. One hundred and thirty one die. One survivor. He is unharmed.  I've spoken with your husband about his survival. I suggested a rather unbelievable explanation. Since then, I've come to believe, that my explanation, however unbelievable, is in fact, true.
megan		And what was that explanation?
elijah		It's a mediocre time Mrs. Dunne. People are starting to lose hope. It's hard for many to believe that extraordinary things live inside themselves as well as others... I hope you can keep an open mind?
elijah		I own a comic book museum. It's called the Limited Edition.
elijah		I believe comic books are based loosely on reality - I believe there are real life equivalents of the heroes in those books that walk the earth - I believe your husband is one of those individuals.
elijah		I'm glad you brought up fate Mrs. Dunne. I'm becoming a strong believer in it... See, David refuses to speak with me any longer... And when I saw your name on my insurance list of approved physical therapists... It was like fate had intervened...  We were meant to speak to each other.
david		We've had some problems with drug selling in this stadium.  Would you mind if I checked the pockets of your sweatshirt?
thermometer boy		Is that your dad?
thermometer boy		I bet my dad can beat up you dad.
jeremy		I don't think so.
nurse		...No, he insisted we only call you.  Though it took us a while to track down your number. It's not on file here.
david		Megan handles that type of stuff.
nurse		What stuff is that?
david		Jeremy's stuff.
david		So do I need to put any smelly ointments on him or anything?
nurse		It's more emotional damage. It wasn't very serious physically.
nurse		Nothing like when I sent you to the hospital.
david		What was that?
nurse		My office was on the other side of the building back then.  You don't remember me do you?
nurse		I had red hair.
nurse		I think you were a little younger than Jeremy when it happened.  Did you know we changed the conduct rules of the pool because of you?
nurse		The kids still talk about it like some ghost story..."Did you know there was a kid that almost drowned in the pool? He got pneumonia and almost died."
nurse		We let them tell it... It helps keep them safe.
nurse		Are you still phobic of water?
david		Yes I am.
david		You are like me. We both can get hurt. I'm just an ordinary man.  I'm not what you think I am.
jeremy		Why do you keep saying that?
megan		He's just laying in bed. He's pretty upset. He won't talk.
david		He's dealing with a lot of things.  I think he needs to find answers himself.
megan		It's weird to hear you tell me about Jeremy.  A good weird.
david		Would you like to try going-
megan		Yes.
david		-out again.
david		But if we see another mother from Jeremy's school, me name is Juan. I always wanted to be a Juan.
megan		Oh. Elijah Price came to visit me at the center today.
david		Jesus.
megan		He didn't do anything. He just told me his theory... It's sad when patients get like that. They loose reality.
david		-Jeremy did you load that gun?
david		-Elijah was wrong.
megan		-Sometimes when people are sick or hurt for a long time, like Elijah, they're mind gets hurt too.
megan		-They start to think things that aren't true. He hold me what he thought about your father. It isn't true.
david		-You know the story about the kid who almost drowned in the pool?
david		-That was me they were talking about. I almost died. That was me.
david		-I'm not. I just didn't connect it.
megan		-Jeremy, your father was injured in college - you know that. You know all about that.
megan		-Don't do it. He'll die Jeremy.
david		-Jeremy listen to what-
jeremy		-Don't be scared.
david		-Jeremy if you pull that trigger I'm going to leave! I'm going to go to New York.
david		You're right... If you shoot me, that bullet is going to bounce off me and I won't get hurt... but then I'm going to go upstairs and pack. And then leave to New York.
elijah		Joined a rugby league. Turned out to be a bad idea.  Come here I want to show you something.
elijah		Look at this. I just noticed this today.
elijah		This is from the Sentryman series. A color version of this was actually used in the second issue.
elijah		Look at this eyes. What do you see?
elijah		It's fear.  They turned him into a garden variety hero later... Then he was brave all the time.
elijah		I followed the guy in the army jacket.
elijah		He had a silver handled gun tucked in the back of his pants.  Were you really injured in that car accident in college?
elijah		Because I think you faked it. I think you took the opportunity to end your career - no questions asked.  I now believe you are the genuine article Mr. David Dunne. The kind of person we knew existed, from our history.
elijah		It's time for someone like you.  Bad is winning. I can feel it.
elijah		That's not what I witnessed David.
david		Stop messing with my life Elijah. My son almost shot me last night. He wanted to prove you were right.
elijah		I never said you couldn't be killed. I never said that.
david		You have a problem, Elijah. My wife is right. Somewhere along the line one of your bones broke and your mind just broke with it.
elijah		Are you finished?
david		No. And I have been sick. I spent a week in a hospital when I was a boy recovering from pneumonia and almost drowning.
david		Two skinny eight year old kids were playing around the pool. They were dunking me. I swallowed water. They didn't know it and they almost killed me.  Heroes don't get killed like that. Normal people do.
david		I don't want to see you again okay.  Now I'm finished.
megan		The sitter's here.
megan		We can do this another time if you want? I'm fine with anything.
david		But I put cologne on.
megan		Is that what that smell is?
ponytail man		Hey man it's twenty after. It's time to close. I gotta head.
ponytail man		You better not be jacking off to the Japanese comics. I swear to God.
ponytail man		Listen man, I didn't know you were in-  Just choose something all right?
ponytail man		Hello. You understand English?
ponytail man		Look man, I'm just gonna wheel you out. You can think about things outside on the sidewalk. I gotta get some chicken in me, you know what I'm saying?
ponytail man		Shit.
ponytail man		Dude, I don't care if you are in a wheelchair. If you do that again, I'm calling Five-O.
ponytail man		That's it crackerjack! You're going to sit your ass in jail now.
elijah		How much is this one?
david		...I think rust.
megan		Rust?
david		As a color, not as rust. You know, a rust colored paint or wood?
megan		I didn't know that. Mine's still brown.
david		My turn. What's your favorite song?
megan		Soft and Wet, by the Artist Formerly Known as Prince.
david		What was that?
megan		We're supposed to be honest.
david		Soft and Wet. That's very interesting.
megan		My turn.  When was the first time the thought popped into your head that we might not make it?
david		That's not the game.
megan		It's a second date. There aren't any rules.
david		I'm not sure.
megan		Think carefully?
david		What about the game?
megan		It's finished. I won.
megan		Maybe it wasn't a specific moment, maybe it-
david		I had a nightmare one night and I didn't wake you up so you could tell me it was okay.  Does that count?
megan		Do you knowingly keep Jeremy and me at a distance?
david		Yes.
megan		Why?
david		I don't know Megan.
megan		It's like you resent us David. Resent the life you have.
megan		You know even if it meant we couldn't be together, I would never have wished that injury on you? What you could so physically was a gift. I would never have wished it to go away.
megan		You know that right?
david		Who called through?
megan		We're not moving.
megan		Look let's be honest here. We're just at the beginning. I don't expect you or I to change the course of where our lives were headed because of two dates.  I guess congratulations is the right thing to say.
elijah		The point of all this is, we now know something we didn't... You have a weakness... Water. It's your krpytonite.  You hearing me David? Call me back... I got rugby practice in an hour.
machine		Message erased.
david		Megan...
david		Megan?
david		Me too.
driver		Is she all right?
david		I think her leg is fractured.
driver		Are you injured?
driver		Hold on. I got a C.B. in the truck.
elijah		Hello.
david's voice		Elijah?
elijah		David?
david's voice		What am I supposed to do?
teenager		What's your name? I think you drank too much.
david		You need to leave now.
woman		...See the villain's eyes. They're larger than the other characters'. They insinuate a slightly skewed perspective of how they see the world. Just off normal.
david		He doesn't look very threatening.
woman		That's what I said to my son. He said, there's always two kinds. The soldier villain who fights the hero with his hands, and then there's the real threat. The brilliant and evil arch enemy who fights the hero with his mind.
david		Are you Elijah's mother?
elijah's mother		I am. I'm helping him with the sale.
david		It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm David Dunne.
elijah's mother		He's spoken of you. He says you're becoming friends.
david		We are.
david		He's doing well today.
elijah's mother		I'm very proud of him.  They were bad... But he made it. Yes he did.
david		He's kind of a miracle.
elijah's mother		Yes he is.
elijah's mother		I'll tell him you're here.
elijah		Did you see this?
elijah		When I saw it this morning. I felt a part of the world again.
man		What's going on?
elijah		A plane just crashed.
elderly man		I've worked here twenty-five years. I know all its secrets.
elijah		Secrets?
engineer		Passengers aren't allowed in there.
****Dialogues from script :Under_Fire.txt****

price		'Morning, Jimmy, think you could squeeze me in?
jimmy		Where is you would care to go at once, Mr. Price?
price		Bang-bang.
jimmy		Twenty dollar.
price		You're a thief, Jimmy.
jimmy		Booteeful picture, huh, snap-snap?
price		I don't do skies.
price		 Hi, guys.
oates		G'damn, Price, you tuna sucking piece of raw meat -- whatchyou goin' to Zambeze for?
price		Thought I'd get some great shots of your head gettin' blown to smithereens.
oates		Smithereens?! Be a great fuckin' picture, eh?
price		Be a prize winner.
oates		 I gotta have a joint.
price		I'm on the wagon, man, sorry.
oates		 Lotta fuckin' coons around here, eh?
price		I thought you were fighting for the Government?
oates		I am. This is the Government.
price		These are the Rebels.
oates		Fuck they are. This is a Government convoy to Calunda.
price		This is the Abou-Deian Revolutionary Front.
oates		You're shitting me.
oates		These guys be pissed if they knew, eh?  Nicaragua. That's the spot. Cheap shrimp, lotta rays -- real thin in the spook department too, dig?
oates		Well hell... I wonder where the fuckin' Guvmint is?
price		Hold it! Hold it!
oates		Well, I guess we know where the Guvmint is.
price		 You can walk to work from here.
oates		Convenient, ain't it?
oates		My brother just got married.
price		I don't know your brother.
price		What's this?
oates		Great shit, eh?
oates		U.S. Gummint offers this house to any Cuban pilot flying Migs for the Rebels who chooses to defect to America with a Russian jet. We know they ain't gonna run off with no planes -- but the Rebs don't -- They're scared. They start thinking about that swimming pool. Damn near smell that chlorine. Starts workin' on 'em, and pretty soon they don't let the Cubies near a Mig. Use their own spook pilots and destroy their own air force in a week. Guaran-fuckin- teed.
price		C.I.A.?
oates		 Hey, you gotta scoop here, eh? You'll be famous.
price		 Maybe.
oates		 I gotta run... have a good one.
price		I love Africa.
claire		 "...and so this strange war that features two provincial governments, three rival liberation fronts, and at least twenty-five tribal associations, grinds into its seventh year..."
claire		"...The Battle for the Airfield at Abou Deia is just another chapter in this endless story. From Ndjamena, Chad, this is Claire Stryder."  No -- you didn't hear any music -- must be the connection. Okay? So long.
claire		Alex, don't play that God damn thing when I'm filing.  We're late.
alex		It's my party -- we'll be late. You called it a "strange war" and an "endless story." If you filed that story for me, I'd say you were editorialishing.
claire		I like to editorialize. You drunk?
alex		Drunk? Only with the memories of making love with you on the plains of Fianga as the first Army of Liberation marched in and opened fire.
claire		And freed the Proletariat.
alex		Right.
claire		I'm going to the party without you.
alex		Christ, I don't want to go to this stupid party. I'm bad at false modesty.
claire		You're great at it.
claire		Alex, you're going to make a great anchorman in New York and undoubtedly I could be a Pulitzer Prize winning hostess -- but I'm not going with you.
alex		You can work out of the East Coast. We'll get a place on Long Island and burn our suitcases.
claire		I still like suitcases.
alex		Every Saturday night we'll have a party... invite all our friends, sit out on the veranda and interview each other.
claire		I've done all that.
alex		I haven't.  Well, God dammit, I'm getting tired of memorizing who's the president of the... Republic of Maldives.
claire		Mamoon Abdul Gayoom.
alex		Yeah, he succeeded Mamoon Abdul Gayeem.
alex		And I'm tired of Third World elevators.
alex		Don't leave me.
claire		I already have.
alex		Fuck Abou Deia and New York. I'm going to Nicaragua with you.
claire		No.
alex		I've heard it's a neat little war with a nice hotel.
price		Alex, get up here!
price		To the man who gave me my first job, and fired me from my first job... and gave me my second job...
price		Just a few words, Alex.
alex		You may be asking yourself what exactly are you doing here in this "strange war, just another chapter in an endless story... that grinds into its seventh year..."
price		Oh. I didn't know you were here.
claire		Sure you did. You were taking pictures of me all over the room.
price		Well... yeah... you looked great. Why aren't you partying?
claire		In a minute.
price		I printed that up for Alex.
claire		It wouldn't be the greatest thing you could give him right now...  We just split up.
price		Jesus, I'm sorry. Who left who this time?
claire		I'm the villain... I thought it could be a little cleaner this time -- me in Central America, him in New York.
price		That's pretty clean.
claire		But he's decided to go to Nicaragua too.
price		To cover you or the war?
claire		To cover everything.
claire		No.
claire		For godsakes, Russell, listen.
price		I don't want to wait for you again. We've been circling each other since the Montreal Olympics.
claire		You're a genius of bad timing.  I'm going back to the party.
claire		This is a great shot.
price		Thanks.
claire		I've heard the light in Nicaragua's even better.
price		Wait here.
teenage boys		Rafael, Rafael, Rafael... libre o muerte... Rafael...
alex		Welcome to Managua.
price		You have something to do with this?
alex		Well... I thought of calling your photographs "Pictures from a Lost War"... I'm great at captions -- the New York editors loved it since none of them knew where the hell Chad was anyway -- it legitimized their ignorance, got you a cover, me a feature, and packaged a class struggle in two words. Nifty, eh?
price		Nifty.
price		I'm Russell Price.
alex		I'm sorry... this is Isela Cruz. She works for the hotel and helps out as a translator.
isela		My pleasure.
price		 Looks like you guys have a lot of bang-bang down here, eh? Little misunderstanding between the poets and the government?
isela		"Misunderstanding?!" "Down here" it's called a war. It started in nineteen thirty. Before you were born.
alex		My Spanish is a little out of shape -- what'd he say?
isela		He said he considers it an honor to be able to photograph our war.
alex		Russell's got a way with words.
isela		I can tell.
price		You're a helluva translator.
isela		I know. I'm much in demand around here. Will you excuse me? If you have any questions, just ask.
price		Who is Rafael?
alex		It depends who you ask.
isela		Rafael? Comandante Rafael. He is either a Marxist dupe of Russia and Cuba...  Take your pick.
price		I don't really give a damn... but the guy's got a great face.
price		How would he like to be photographed?
isela		You'd never find him.
price		Wanta lay odds?
isela		You would lose.  You must excuse me.
price		Just one more thing -- is Rafael owned by the C.I.A. or the K.G.B.? I'll figure out the rest.
isela		Mr. Price... the world is not divided into East and West anymore. It is divided into North and South. By the time you people figure that out -- it will be too late.  Congratulations on your cover.
price		So far this war's got it all over Africa.
alex		You're gonna have a ball.
alex		Hands off. I need an interpreter more than you do right now.
price		You still hanging in there with Claire?
alex		I'm hanging in there like an interim post-war government waiting for the palace to be overrun... by younger men.
price		Younger men.
claire		Hi, Alex... Russell! When did you get in?
price		Just now.
claire		You're not going to believe this -- I just beat you guys and everybody else here to a story...  ...exclusive... eat your heart out.
price		What'd ya get?
claire		I've just been promised a private interview with Tacho.
alex		 Congratulations. The bastard won't talk to me.
price		Who's Tacho?
claire		That's President Somoza's nickname.
price		I don't know who the players are yet.
alex		Want me to order you a hot dog and a program?
claire		Fellas! No fighting after six at night, all right? Curfew.  C'mon, we've all got something to celebrate.
boy photographer		 Sometimes it doesn't work.
price		Let me look.
daisy		Ladeez and Gen'mun, hep me get Aaleex ov' here...
alex		There's not many piano bars left where I'm still welcome.
claire		Go ahead.
alex		If she can't sing in the key of C I'm in trouble.
price		Well...
claire		"Well"... you finished your assignment in Chad?
price		Got Africa all wrapped up and pouched to my editor.
claire		You're going to love this war, Russell... there's good guys, bad guys, cheap shrimp...  I missed you.
price		We gotta get alone somewhere to talk.
alex		Sometimes I wonder why I spend these lonely nights, Dreaming of a song...
claire		Jesus... he's doing it on purpose.
price		Alex is one of the world's leading experts on military strategy.
price		Well, hell, I just got off the boat... gimme the scoop on Nicaragua...
claire		Well... about sixty years ago the U.S. Marines invaded to protect American business interests and put down a peasant revolt led by a little man who wore a giant cowboy hat -- his name was Augusto Sandino... In nineteen thirty-four he was murdered at a peace conference, and the Somoza family has ruled ever since...
price		No, no, no... I don't mean the stuff about the peasants -- I mean the real stuff.
claire		The "real" stuff?... you mean a history of class struggle in agrarian societies?
price		No, c'mon!
claire		Oh. Okay... well... 
price		Pecker?
claire		Yeah... and throw it into Lake Managua.
price		Jesus.
claire		And the lake's already polluted.
price		 Is there anybody here we don't know?
claire		No.
regis		G'damn, Price... kudos on the African snaps.  Jeez, Claire, I haven't seen you since...
claire		Three Mile Island.
regis		Yeah... shit...  Holiday Inn, right?
claire		Jesus... Louis Jordan walks in, and I'm sitting with the Everly Brothers.
regis		Before you fall in love -- that's Marcel Jazy... friend of wine, women, and Somoza. They say he's a businessman...
claire		 He's a businessman in search of a business... he doesn't try very hard to cover up his connections to the C.I.A...
claire		But look at his moves -- can the C.I.A. light cigarettes like that?
price		What's wrong with the Everly Brothers?
waiter		Please stay at your table, and you won't be hurt.
guerrilla leader		 We do not want to waste any ammunition on a head as empty as yours -- but we will.
businessman		 What is this?!
guerrilla leader		 Shut up! Get up!
guerrilla leader		 You are coming with us -- you will not be hurt -- we will trade you for the release of some Nicaraguans who care about Nicaragua.
time stringer		...it's Charlie, from New York -- says that a terrorist bombing of a Central American restaurant isn't big enough to hold for the world section...
alex		Tell him we have pictures.
young journalist		He knows.
alex		Tell him there were pieces of body in the piano, and somebody was singing, "I Left My Heart in San Francisco."  What's he got better than that?
time stringer		He's got the Pope visiting Egypt.
alex		Forget the Pope, Charlie. Every week you got the Pope somewhere. This is a very big story down here because it's the first sign of fighting in Managua.  Yeah, well get a map and look up Nicaragua -- ya drive to New Orleans and turn left.
alex		Like hell I'm editorializing, the whole thing happened in a roomful of C.I.A. and press. What do you want?!  How do I know they were C.I.A.? They wore name tags, what do you think? We're backing a Fascist again -- I know that ain't news, but see if you can find an angle!
hub		Hey! There's fascists and then there's fascists, right? Be careful how you throw words like that around.
alex		We don't have any pictures of Rafael because nobody knows where the son of a bitch is, and anybody crazy enough to go after him...
alex		...is liable to get his nuts shot off.
alex		Yeah, well g'bye...  Who the fuck are you?
hub		 Hub Kittle. I'm with Lewitsky and Knupp -- New York. We have a client down here.
alex		Who?
hub		President Somoza.
hub		I know, I know...  But there's an untold story here. I mean, the man has a point of view too, right?
hub		We got a national anthem contest going on right now, and you guys are ignoring it. Lotta human interest.
claire		I want you to get me copies of the Government inventory lists of all captured Guerrilla weapons. I want to know if the guns are Israeli, Belgian, Russian, Cuban...
young woman		The Guerrillas are not supplied by anybody from the outside.
claire		Fine -- give me proof.
operator		Su hija, su hija! Your daughter from Los Angeles.
claire		Hi, baby! How are you?  Yes, I got your letter with the picture of your new boyfriend. He's very good looking... but he's a bit old, isn't he? No? Just how old is he?...
price		 Cuanto?
old woman		Quince.
price		Veinte.
old woman		Diezysiete.
price		What is this? I'm a journalist!
price		Journalista, journalista!
guard		Padre Puta, Padre Puta, Padre Puta...  Here is a Priest for you to confess your sins.
prisoner priest		Cigarillo?
price		Priest?  What are you doing here?
prisoner priest		 The government accused me of using the church to hide Rebels and guns.
price		 Governments are always wrong, eh?
prisoner priest		 This time they're right. Who are you?
price		 Un periodista.
prisoner priest		 Whose side are you on?
price		 I don't take sides. I take pictures.
prisoner priest		 No sides?
price		 No.
prisoner priest		Periodista Puta, todos periodistas son putas. 
prisoner priest		 Go home.
price		Mi amigo -- mala interpretacion, eh? Periodista, comprende? Famoso. Time magazine.
soldier		 Shut up!
price		Soy un periodista.
price		That film is half way to New York by now.
price		Forget it.
claire		 You should be trying to seduce us!
officer		Senora...
price		Claire!
claire		You're okay?
price		I'm fine -- what're you doing here? These guys are goons.
claire		They love being beaten up by a woman  I've been looking for you all night -- why'd they lock you up?
price		I don't know. Taking pictures. The usual. Jazy got me released.
claire		Jazy?! You think there's a story there?
price		Ahh... C.I.A. stories are all alike. I wanta find Rafael.
claire		You need help?
price		No. You?
claire		No.  When should we start.
price		I figure you probably want to do a little research on the history of Marcel Jazy's business connections in the third world countries with C.I.A. influence...
claire		Oh. I assumed you'd just look him in the eye and say "Gimme a break, for crissakes, Marcel, are you a spy or aren't you?"
price		...are you a spy or aren't you, eh?
jazy		 Spy is such an odd word, Mr. Price... nobody is a... 'spy'... anymore.
claire		Russell prefers pictures to words...
jazy		You don't have to apologize... you're journalists.
claire		And you're a businessman?
jazy		A businessman? That sounds good. Okay, I'm a businessman.
price		Why was I arrested, and why did you get me released, and who are you?
jazy		 No agua.
jazy		If she dove in, I assure you she wouldn't notice.
jazy		 Sweetheart, the Guerrillas knocked out the pumping station on the road to Masaya, and we must ration water for the time being. Next week maybe things will be better.
jazy		 Maybe you should.
jazy		You were arrested because the Guardia are clowns who specialize in excess. You were released because I told them to release you.
claire		These are not the normal duties of a businessman.
jazy		But they are the normal duties of a... spy, eh? You win, I'm a spy.  There, are you happy? I feel better.
jazy		Now we can relax. You can turn off your little thing.
jazy		Oh, I trust you won't say anything to hurt me. In some ways I'm a terrible spy. I used to be much better at it, but now it seems everyone knows who I am. I have too many girlfriends. I like to be photographed.  I talk too much.
jazy		I always talk too much... but my girlfriends like that... No matter.  You know who she is?
jazy		That's Miss Panama. Do you know who that is?
jazy		She's in love with me. I've got to get some water in the pool.  And once a week I have lunch with President Somoza to discuss security measures against the Sandinista insurgents, but all he wants to talk about is Miss Panama... he's worried about her.
claire		Because he thinks she's seeing another man?
jazy		...and he assigned me to find out who the man is.
jazy		We all know the Revolutionaries are going to win, don't we?
price		There's a rumor about this picture. Some people say you're a genius -- that you invented this scheme.
jazy		It was lots of people's idea... Have you been to Leon?
claire		We're going to Masaya... they say the Rebels have hit the cuartel.
price		It's supposed to be nasty there... a lotta people think Rafael's in the South. I want to find out.
jazy		No, no, it's not "nasty" yet. Another week maybe.  You would love Leon. A nice cathedral and beautiful light... et un peu de bang-bang.
claire		We're not doing a travelogue, you understand.
jazy		Of course, of course... only I have heard that Comandante Rafael has recently had his unit in the area.
price		 Rafael is near Leon?
jazy		Well... it's a rumor, what do I know?
miss panama		Estoy desemperado!
jazy		She's lonely!
claire		Don't let us stand in the way.
jazy		It's my job.  You think I talk too much?
claire		Did you dream about Miss Panama last night?
price		I dreamed about you.
claire		Have a good time?
price		Yeah... so'd you.
claire		And old war injury flaring up?
price		Is the tape on?
claire		Of course.
price		I was on the deck of the U.S.S. Pueblo catching some rays when the North Koreans attacked... took a bullet right in the chest, but by luck I had an extra roll of high speed ektachrome in this pocket right here... over the heart...
claire		And the bullet ricocheted off the film, grazed your cheek, and saved your life.
price		You heard about it?! I was lucky.
claire		Did anyone ever die next to you in combat?
price		Yeah.
claire		What did you do?
price		F.8 at a sixtieth.
claire		That's an old joke. My question was serious.
price		So was I.  You ever dream about me?
claire		Once.
price		How was I?
claire		Fast.
claire		I'm basically a coward, Russell, I hope you understand that. I hope we don't get shot.
price		Me too.
claire		 I thought it was quiet here.
soldier		 Quiet? Are you sure you want to go down there? Not me.
soldier		 You must leave the car here.
price		 You thinking of scoring a Toyota?
claire		 No problem -- we leave the car.
claire		Now what?
price		C'mon. Be careful.
claire		Be careful?! Where the fuck we going? Better light?
claire		...June tenth... the evacuation of Leon... a woman carries a pig... signs for the F.S.L.N. are everywhere... a body...
claire		Russell?!
pedro		 No, please...
pedro		Americans? Journalists?
pedro		Ah! I put my autograph on this ball.
pedro		When you get back to the United States, I want you to give this ball to Tippy Martinez for me. He is from Nicaragua.
pedro		 Can they come with us?
priest		 No, please... it's not safe. You must come with me.
voice		Price. You motherfucker, Price, I'm talking to you.
voice		Where are those bastards... are they away?
price		They're away.
oates		What the fuck are you doing here?
price		What the fuck are you doing here?
oates		Awright, awright -- you're lookin' good... how ya like Nicaragua?
price		It's beautiful.
oates		Shitload o' greasers though, eh?
claire		You're okay?
claire		Much better than Koufax.
pedro		Koufax is okay... but Tippy Martinez, he is the best... he pitches for the Baltimore Orioles, and some day I will be the second man from Nicaragua to play in the major leagues...
pedro		You will give my autographed baseball to Tippy and tell him in five years I will be pitching with him, okay? He better watch out for me, eh?
claire		 Gracias. Can they get into trouble for keeping us?
pedro		No, no... you are not combatants.  The Baltimore team is my team...
price		You bastard!
claire		What about him?!
claire		Hello sweetheart, this is your mother. I'm in Leon and I miss you. Don't worry about me -- it's not dangerous at all. I guess you can't believe what you hear on the news. I'll put this this tape in the mail when I get back to Managua, but knowing what the mail service is like, I may be home before it arrives. I think about you all the time and hope I can make it back before you graduate from Jr. High.
claire		I love you and I'll finish this letter when I get back to the hotel.
price		I know who shot Pedro. I knew somebody was in the tower.
claire		Why didn't you tell the guerrillas?
price		I don't know... then they would've killed him I guess. I didn't want to interfere.
claire		It wasn't an easy choice.
price		I think I made the wrong one.
claire		You didn't take any pictures when it was over.
price		I didn't?  Is something happening to us?
claire		Yes.
price		Are you asleep?
claire		No.
price		G'morning.
claire		What are you doing?
price		You look beautiful.
claire		How long have you been doing this?
price		'Bout ten frames. Wait'll you see the pictures -- you look great.
claire		I'll bet I look great -- give me the film.
price		After they're printed.
claire		I'll develop them myself -- give it to me or I'll start taping what you say in your sleep.
price		I talk in my sleep?
claire		Girl's names and F-stops. Terrible.
price		Call the office. I don't want to go to work today.
alex		How was Matagalpa?
alex		You find anything?
claire		Oh!
alex		Oh.  How was Leon?
claire		Bloody.
alex		Yeah... I'll bet... Claire...
alex		I'm tired of Nicaragua.
claire		You haven't been here very long.
alex		Long enough, lets face it, you were right... everybody was right.
claire		About what?
alex		My cheekbones. What do you think of 'em?
claire		I like your cheekbones. Alex, are you all right?
alex		This is a face made for television.
claire		You decided to go with the network.
alex		Is he a good fuck?
claire		Alex...
alex		That's a reasonable question for a reporter to ask, isn't it?!  I shoulda never come down here, eh? This war down here belongs to you guys, okay? I'm on tommorrow's plane.
claire		Alex...
alex		You want to take me to the airport? It's okay.  I shoulda never come down here.
alex		Take this to check in. I'll be right there.
price		Sniff this sucker, eh?
alex		Jesus, where'd you get this?
claire		The C.I.A.
alex		Where else.
price		Hey -- I'll leave you guys alone, eh?
claire		No, no, don't be ridiculous.
alex		We're grownups, Russell...  Most of us.
price		You two wanta happy snap?
alex		No happy snaps.
price		Okay, okay...  I'll just... be over here.
alex		You're sure about him?
claire		For the moment.
price		Don't look, huh?  No mire!
alex		Don't get hurt.
price		Ahh, I'm a chicken, don't worry.  Alex, listen to me...
alex		Yeah?
price		Within a year you're gonna be one of the "Ten Most Admired Men in America."
claire		You're late to your own luncheon, Mr. President -- we can schedule this for another time.
somoza		Nonsense -- let them wait. We are a stunning couple, eh? My stomach is very flat -- I've been working out.
claire		We are a stunning couple. Mr. President, you own one fifth of all the land in Nicaragua, you own the shipping port, the national airlines, the Mercedes dealership...
somoza		I am on a salt free diet...
claire		Do you always hold hands with reporters?
somoza		 This is my mother and father. They were very special to me. Every Sunday morning I drive out to the cemetery and put flowers on their grave. I think people should know that.
claire		Would you care to comment on the fall of Leon to the rebels?
hub		Listen, Russell, let's grow up. It's very easy to fall in love with the underdog, eh? But there's an upside and downside to this thing -- just wanta remind you... this stuff about a "Revolution of Poets" is crap.
price		But it's great P.R. So what's the upside?
hub		Simple. And it could happen. Somoza destroys the terrorist insurgents, rebuilds the country, shitcans the purveyors of excess, stabilizes the cordoba, and is finally beloved as the savior of Nicaragua.  Our pal. Got a smoke?
price		What's the downside?
hub		The Commies take over the world.
hub		Excuse me, gentlemen, but the war may be over.
somoza		My people love me. My stomach is flat. Did I say that already? No matter. It is flat.
claire		There are reports that the Guardia operates a torture chamber at Coyotepe.
somoza		I like this song.
claire		Since the earthquake in 1972 destroyed half of Managua, over three hundred million dollars in foreign relief aid have poured into the country, yet nothing has been re-built. It is said that the money has gone into your pocket.
somoza		I love the press, I really do. Some of my best friends are journalists.
claire		Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Brazil, and Panama are reportedly on the verge of breaking off diplomatic relations with your regime. Would you comment?
somoza		 I am busy! Get out of here at once or I'll put my foot up your ass!
somoza		 I'm sorry to have to conclude this most pleasant encounter, but something has happened.
hub		Did he tell you about his parents in the graveyard, the flowers and all that?  Good, good...
somoza		My friends... this gathering was not intended to be a press conference as much as a... "get-together"... but I have just been handed a piece of news.
somoza		Rafael is dead.  He has been killed in an ambush in the Cordillera mountains of the Jinotega district.
journalists		Mr. President! Mr. President!
somoza		Please my friends -- no questions. A press release is being prepared.
other journalist		They got Rafael? You believe that?
regis		Every six months Tacho gives this speech -- maybe they finally lucked out.
jazy		Russell, excuse me... but I've just been put in a rather embarrassing position.  Mrs. Somoza would like her picture taken with Miss Panama. In color?
price		How the hell could Tacho find Rafael.
jazy		Russell, please... I have my hands full...
price		Is Tacho lying again? They did kill him, didn't they?
jazy		Everybody smile.
price		One more, please! Una mas, por favor?
price		We help each other, right? Could you move your girlfriend into the sun...
jazy		What do you need?
price		Is Rafael alive or dead?
jazy		I don't know.
price		 I thought you knew everything?
jazy		What do I know, eh? Tacho needs a victory very badly... he needs to prove to Jimmy Carter that he is still winning. He thinks Rafael's death is the proof he needs.
price		Carter don't need proof. He just sent twenty-five million in new arms to Tacho.  I'm sorry... almost got it here.
jazy		No, no... the arms shipment has been delayed in New Orleans because Jimmy is getting nervous.
price		The State Department's gonna pull the plug on Tacho?! Pardon my French -- but whose fucking side are you on?
jazy		...I work for everybody. If there is a transition of power, I facilitate a relationship with the new people. If there is not, I facilitate the status quo.  Either way, I facilitate.
price		Great job.
jazy		I send messages to Jimmy and I tell him that the Revolution is a flood that cannot be stopped but it can be controlled... nobody listens... I can't even get a little water in my pool.
price		Rough ain't it. Thank you everybody, very nice.
price		I don't think Rafael is dead. I'm gonna find him.
jazy		They say he's very handsome.  It would make a wonderful picture, eh?
price		Con permiso -- who controls what today?
claire		How do we find the guerillas?
regis		What'd he say?
claire		Go two or three blocks and turn right at the sniper.
price		You can drop us off.
price		Wrong way!
regis		We're not looking for the guerillas.
claire		Then let us out.
soldier		Lo siento! 
price		Go one more block.
claire		He just wanted to see credentials, for crissakes, what're doing?
regis		You want to drive?
price		We want out!
price		Periodista, periodista, periodista!
boy		Busca triquitraques?
claire		Si.
boy		Venga.
isela		You are looking for Rafael?
price		Yeah. If it's possible.
claire		Do you know why we're here... exactly?
isela		Mr. Price doesn't do anything before announcing it first in the bar.  It's a good story. You'll be more famous.
claire		Rafael's tent?
isela		Venga, companeros. 
claire		What is it?
price		Rafael is dead.
price		I can smell it.
claire		I don't know.
isela		 Venga por favor! Alli!
claire		What're you talking about?
price		He's dead. I know it.
claire		Then why did they bring us all the way here to see him?
isela		This is Commandante Cinco.
isela		Today we took Matagalpa. Leon is about to fall, and Masaya. And next week we could be in Managua but it is still possible to lose.  In the last days of our final offensive the people of Nicaragua must know that Rafael is alive and well.
commandante cinco		Queremos un fotografia.
isela		We need a photograph.  Come with us.
commandante cinco		Usted es un fotografo magnifico. 
isela		 Why is he laughing?
price		You're crazy.
cinco		 We have momentum, but many more lives will be lost. Even Washington is starting to admit that the butcher Somoza is not loved by his people. They have detained twenty-five million dollars in new arms shipments for Somoza at an airfield in Florida until they find out if Rafael is alive or dead. We know about these things.
claire		If Washington thinks Rafael is dead, they will ship the arms to Somoza. Do you understand.
price		Yeah.  Commandante... Soy un periodista.
cinco		This has nothing to do with journalism -- there is more to the world than journalism. We are going to end this war with you or without you.  People don't really believe in Rafael -- they believe in the idea of Rafael, no? Because for now the idea of Rafael is enough for the people of Nicaragua. When the war is over -- none of this matters.
price		I don't do things... like this.
cinco		Enough lives have been lost already.  It's difficult, I know -- but you must do it.
cinco		In the morning, eh? When there's better light!
claire		I spend my whole life separating how I feel from how I think and what I see from what I say -- that's called journalism, isn't it?
claire		It's disciplined. It civilized. It involves distinctions. I'm great at distinctions. I wish I wasn't so good at them. Sometimes I envy you -- you don't make any -- it's very convenient.  The only time I don't worry about all those things is when I'm with my daughter.
price		Or when you're in bed.
claire		Yes!  That's a very romantic streak I have running through me -- maybe it's a weakness. Information is good -- lack of information is bad. Simple, eh?
price		Not so simple.
claire		You're God damn right it's not.  You take that picture you'll take it for all the right reasons -- I understand.
price		I'm not gonna take it.
claire		That's fine for you. But do I go back and say I interviewed Rafael? Do I go back and say I missed the biggest story of the war? Or do I say Rafael was stone cold dead -- that's the information, isn't it? Or do I say he entertained us all in his inimitably charismatic manner around the ol' revolutionary campfire?  Which story do you want me to tell?
price		Do what you want to do.
claire		Christ, what the fuck are we doing here?
price		I want to be here.  What do you want.
claire		I want this war to end.  I'm not going to tell the world that Rafael is dead.
price		I love you.
claire		I think I love you.
price		Don't think so much.
miss panama		Marcel!
regis		We got the smoke in frame?
crewmember		 We got the smoke.
regis		Roll it...
claire		Under a steel gray July sky... start again... under a gray steel Managuan sky... scratch it... In an extraordinary development in Managua, President Anastazio Somoza has ordered the Air Force to begin bombing his own capitol, under a sky... fuck it...
claire		Oh my God...
claire		A Scotch, please...  Double.
price		What's he doing here?
claire		I have no idea.
alex		Congratulations.
price		On what?
alex		On what?! The Washington Post, the Times, networks, wire services -- everybody's picked up the picture. It's fabulous.
claire		 Well, yes... it's fabulous.
price		Fabulous.
claire		Why are you back?
alex		I came back because of Russell.
price		Because of me?
alex		Yeah... the whole fucking East Coast is falling in love with Rafael -- they were sure he was dead this time. Somebody wants to do a musical about him and his mug's on every T-shirt in Central Park.
alex		I think he's bigger than Farrah Fawcett.
claire		You look good. Things're okay?
alex		I'm happier in New York, sure, things are great. You guys?
price		Terrific... now... I'm a little slow here, Alex... what exactly did you come back for?
alex		It's a great story.  I want to talk to Rafael... and you're the only man in the world that can take me to him.
hub		Alex! Couldn't stay away, eh?
claire		We've got to tell Alex what happened.
price		No way.
claire		I'll tell him. He deserves to know.
price		We don't owe him anything!
claire		We owe him that!  He took care of you before you were hot!
price		He wouldn't understand.
claire		Before Nicaragua you wouldn't understand. I'm not sure I exactly understand.  What are we going to do?
price		I'll take Alex to find Rafael -- we'll go to Sebaco on the road to Matagalpa -- the Guardia heavily control the area and they're scared right now -- they'll never let us through. We won't be able to get near Rafael. Alex will understand -- and we'll turn around and drive back without a story.
claire		That's a lie!
price		Tell me about lies!
claire		I don't want to tell him either.
price		We may not be able to find him, y'know...
alex		I've got supreme confidence in you.
alex		Claire looks good, eh?
price		Everybody looks good in the tropics.
alex		Since I haven't been able to find Isela since coming back, you're going to have to translate for me -- what the hell does that mean?
price		Alex... I love her.
alex		And she 'thinks' she loves you.
price		It's past the thinking stage.
alex		I'd like to know something -- it probably doesn't matter in the great final scheme of things... but I'm interested...  Did you ever lay a hand on her before she left me?
price		No!
alex		That's the truth?
price		Yes!  Alex -- we're friends!
soldier		Venga.
alex		I bet you go through a few rental cars.
price		Don't worry. I put this in your name.
oates		No pictures, eh? Might look bad.
price		You get paid by the body or by the hour?
oates		I get paid the same way you do. What the fuck you doin' in Sebaco -- this place's about to blow... ain't it?
price		You didn't have to nail Pedro.
oates		Who's Pedro?
alex		Oh my God...
oates		There's a motherfucking war goin' on, pal... lotta sad stories.
price		Why them? Why them?!
price		You're a cocksucker!
oates		I don't suck no dick, man...
oates		I'd prefer not splattering your brains in a dump like this -- I got priorities.  Who are you?
alex		Russell, let's get outta here.
price		 Fuck you.
oates		Guy's got a sense of humor, old man.  Got any dope? Tough place to find decent dope?
price		Why them?
oates		Them? C'mere. You too.
oates		If your mug shows up in this box... and ya try to make it through Sebaco... I owe yer ass.
alex		Who gives you the pictures?
oates		What's this, an interview? I ain't that dumb.
alex		Off the record.
oates		Off the record... some pachuco gives 'em to me. Ain't none of my business, but I heard he gets 'em from a Frog.
oates		Nice, eh?
price		She dead?
oates		Not yet.
oates		Whatya' expect? We're the ones gettin' our butts kicked.
price		Some-motherfucker-took-my-fucking- pictures-I-don't-fucking-know-what- happened!  Fuck me!
alex		Didn't you ship the film to New York?
price		I developed it in my room.  Jesus Christ, Alex?!
alex		Slow down.  It wasn't your fault if somebody stole your stuff...
price		It was.
alex		What about Rafael?
price		Algo no esta aqui. Fotografias. 
maid		 Everything's always a mess here. You should be neater.
price		Negativos, negativos!
claire		Commandante Cinco's body was just found on the road to Matagalpa.
claire		I don't think it's Jazy.
price		Oates said it was a Frog. How many Frenchmen you know around here? Jazy ain't 'facilitating' shit.
claire		Christ!
claire		Are we looking for negs or prints?
price		Anything.
claire		Que quiere? 
soldier		Donde esta senor Jazy?
claire		No esta aqui.
soldier		Que quienes? 
claire		No, no, no...
claire		Russell?  Russell?
price		Let's get out of here.
miss panama		Hola.
price		We've got to talk to Alex.
claire		You think our flags are big enough?
price		This is what I want to show you.
alex		We drove through three roadblocks a half hour before curfew so you could show me a statue of Tacho.
price		It's not Tacho. It's Mussolini. Tacho went to Italy to commission a statue of himself, he found a warehouse full of Il Duces on horseback, got a great deal on one of 'em -- brought it back and switched heads.  Ya can't tell, can ya?
alex		What the hell are you talking about?
claire		I think what he's trying to say -- what we're trying to say -- is that things aren't exactly what they seem to be.
alex		Well, they don't "seem" to be that great so I can't wait for this one...  Hey, here we are! Two guys in the tropics in love with the same dame... bullets flying!
claire		Alex! That's not why we're here.
alex		Oh yeah? I left the country because of him...  What are we doing here?
claire		Rafael is dead.
alex		In the picture he's dead?
price		 Dead!
alex		How the hell...
claire		 Who cares how?!
price		Alex... I think I finally saw one too many bodies.  How many reasons do you want?
alex		You saw too many bodies? That's a lot of bodies.  Did he talk you into it?
claire		No! I wanted Rafael to be alive.
alex		In some way I understand him doing it, I don't like it but I understand... but you?
claire		I'd do it again.
alex		You two have, of course, just served me up your balls -- if that's what they're called -- on a platter.  I can bury you both. You're handing me your careers.
alex		Well, Jesus Christ... this is a motherfucking story, Russell...  What am I supposed to do with it?
claire		Anything you want.
alex		They're holding the lead in the World section for Rafael.
price		It's great stuff, isn't it? We'd go down in a blaze of glory.
alex		Oh yeah...  I've gotta take some kind of a story back with me. Maybe Jazy, eh?
claire		Oh Jesus.
price		It's a little dangerous looking for Jazy at the moment.
alex		 Ah, danger -- I love it. You could ask the pointy-shoed little bastard about your pictures... and I could ask him whatever happened to Isela.
claire		She's an officer in the Rafael army -- we saw her in Matagalpa.
alex		You mean I slept with a Sandinista?
alex		I guess Rafael is alive, eh?
price		Damn air conditioning.
claire		I wish I was home.
price		C'mere.
claire		Do you think it's almost over?
price		Alex... let's go back.
alex		Jazy's probably sitting in the bar laughing at us. Which way's the hotel?
price		I don't know.
alex		I'll ask her... be right back.
price		Just a sec'... take a flag.
price		You fucks! You fucks!
guardia soldier		Fotografia!
somoza		It is with grave concern that we announce that Alexander Grazier, senior American correspondent, has been murdered at the hands of terrorists...
somoza		Mr. Kittle has prepared statements for you.
regis		Get my bill and get me a cab, hey, amigo!
clerk		No cabs.
regis		Cabs!
clerk		No cabs!
regis		I'm sorry, Claire...
claire		Heard from Russell?
regis		Nobody has.
claire		Wanta help me find him?
regis		Claire... it's on the weird side out there...
hub		Jesus Christ, Claire, a human tragedy, what can I say?
claire		Fuck off, Hub, get outta my way.
claire		 Do you know where the American journalist was killed?
claire		 Have you seen him?
woman		 This is the best I can offer.
price		Gracias.
soldier		Venga aqui.
woman		 Nobody is here. Get out.
leader		Esta alli?! 
leader		Esta alli?!
boy soldier		No esta aqui.
guardia officer		 We are you! We are you! What are you doing?!
claire		Russell!
price		What're you doing here?!
claire		Alex!
price		The Guardia did it -- I got pictures.
price		Hola.  Do you control this area?
disco sandinista		 I don't know.
jazy		They are my friends.
jazy		Well, here we are, eh?
jazy		The boys are confused -- they think I had their family killed.
price		You murder people.
jazy		"Murder" is a word for criminals. I have a job to protect the stability of a continent.
jazy		Please...
claire		You got caught by some boys?
jazy		Yes. Poets too, I imagine.  Is your recorder on?
claire		 Yes.
jazy		Good. I have a speech to make.
jazy		I like you people, but you are sentimental shits. You fall in love with the poets, the poets fall in love with the Marxists, the Marxists fall in love with themselves. The country is destroyed with rhetoric, and in the end we are stuck with tyrants.
jazy		Un minuto, por favor.
jazy		 They are journalists.
jazy		Somoza? He is a tyrant too, of course. A butcher.  But finally that is not the point, you see. If we wish to survive -- we have a choice of tyrants, and for all the right reasons, your poets choose the wrong side.
price		No.
jazy		Yes.  Muy complicado, no?
claire		You picked the wrong side.
jazy		In fifty years we will know who's right.  Are you going to take the picture as the bullet enters the skull or as it comes out? This wall's a nice color, eh? I can move into the sunlight.
jazy		 It's just a story!
jazy		They say that if somebody's holding a gun on you, you should never stop talking... that's the theory -- who knows?...
jazy		Maybe it's a good thing that I talk too much...
claire		You okay?  Russell... what did Alex do?
price		Nothing. He asked for directions.
price		We gotta get outta sight -- half the fucking army's looking for me...
claire		They're not looking for me.
claire		Let me have the film...  ...if I can't get to the hotel I'll come back here...
price		Aw, Christ...  I've wrecked everything else, at least let me take care of you here.
claire		Russell... it's more dangerous being with you than being alone.
price		Don't get hurt.
claire		 That's great advice.
doctor		Journalist?  Perhaps now Americans will be outraged at what is happening here, eh?
claire		Yes... perhaps they will.
doctor		Maybe we should have killed an American journalist fifty years ago.
claire		 Have you seen La Guardia?
claire		 I don't know.
child		Tanquettas! Tanquettas!
claire		Yes.
price		Alex.
claire		Can you help us ship it home?
hub		I've already taken care of it.  I always liked the guy. I can't even get tickets for my own family, but I could get you two on the plane if you want.
price		Yes, please...
hub		Tacho's in Miami.
hub's daughter		Daddy!
hub		 I am sorry. I had a job to do -- that's all -- it put me in some unhappy situations.
oates		Hey, Pricey...
oates		It's all over, eh? We made it. I like the singing.
price		What're you doing here?
oates		Free country. Now it's free, anyway.  Nicalibre!
oates		How 'bout a quickie?  You ain't gonna turn me in, are ya?
oates		Am I gonna see ya in Thailand? We could be friends!
price		We've got a plane to catch.
claire		Did you get enough pictures?
****Dialogues from script :Unknown.txt****

liz		Hey... You're gonna do great. You always do.
martin		I'll do this. You check in. Liz pecks his cheek, gets out. Martin leans forward.
liz		The Eisenhower suite. Dr. and Mrs. Harris.
bellhop		Welcome to the Hotel Imperial. Have you stayed with us before?
martin		No, this is our first visit to Berlin. We're -- -- he stops short, staring at their bags, stacked on the luggage cart. He turns, tracks the their taxi, already pulling out of the drive...
liz		What do you mean the suite may not be available?
receptionist		I have to check with the manager. Security inspections of the rooms are still being completed.
liz		But we confirmed two months ago. Receptionist raises an apologetic hand as she attends to a ringing phone. Liz sighs, glances back toward the entrance. Suddenly curious as she sees...
martin		Tegel airport. Arrivals. Quick. The driver pulls out into traffic. The rain still heavy. Martin stares out at the wet city. Eyes track as the shadowy columns of the Brandenburg Gate pass by. He lets himself relax a little, enjoying this moment of forced calm. He catches sight of the driver in the rear-view. Young, female, shortish hair. Tomboy cute. Smart eyes, older than her years. Layers of clothing. GINA. She glances into the mirror, catches Martin watching her.
gina		Everyone says how much it's changed. Berlin. Eyes connect, brief. Wipers flip-flap.
martin		.I wouldn't know. First time.
gina		Yes, me too. I mean, I wouldn't know either. You're American? He looks back at her, inquisitive...
martin		I think you missed... He stops, smiles as he realizes she's navigated around a large construction back-up, saving them time.
gina		You do what you do, I do what I do, right?
martin		What do you do, when you're not...? She laughs. He smiles, nods. Okay, dumb thing to say.
gina		It's okay. I know what you meant. Her eyes meet his in the mirror. She swings the taxi onto Wilhelmstrasse. Stops at a red light. Ahead, the Marshall Bridge over the River Spree.
martin's face		Strangely serene. Intense vivid IMAGES... the playing card 'ACE TAXIS' logo on the dash... GINA'S EYES in the MIRROR... Silent free-fall dive. Timeless. Dreamlike.
paramedic		Achtung! WHOMPF! The charge surges into Martin's body.
black		.A man's voice... distant. German words. Small, faded image of a German DOCTOR, speaking with the nurse...
black		.again, a pin-hole of consciousness. The Nurse, taking a private moment, speaking in German on her cell-phone. The Nurse looks over, straight at us, realization in her face, she hurries from the room. We REVOLVE... finding... MARTIN HARRIS. Arms by his sides. A few days beard. A sutured cut on his temple. His eyes fluttering, barely open... then closing. Clipboard beside the bed. An admission form. In German. Where Martin's name should be: "unbekannte maennliche Person", and the SUBTITLE becomes our MAIN TITLE...
farge		Wenn Sie mich horen konnen, blinken Sie zweimal. He watches as Martin's eyes tilt. Look directly at him. A sound. A dry croak... slowly forms itself into speech:
martin		I... I don't... speak German...
farge		 Are you English?
martin		. American... A beat. Farge signals the Nurse to come in. Speaks to him slowly and clearly in English:
farge		My name is Doctor Farge. You are in the Waldfriede Hospital. I'm the head neurologist here. You have been in an accident.
martin		Martin... Harris. Doctor... Martin Harris... Farge exchanges a look with the nurse. To Martin...
farce		Where are you staying? Is there anyone here, in Berlin, that we
martin		My wife.. ?
farge		Doctor Harris, it's all right. The taxi you were in went into the river. You were the only passenger. Your heart stopped for six minutes. It is Thursday, November 27th. For four days you have been in a coma.
martin		Thanksgiving... but my wife... she's in Berlin with me. Where is she? Why isn't she here?
farge		We didn't find any identification with you, Doctor Harris... the driver, who saved your life, disappeared soon after the accident and no one else has come forward. I must apologize, but we had no idea who you were. It sinks in. Martin shakes his head wretchedly.
martin		Oh, Jesus... Liz doesn't know... She'll... she'll be worried sick.
farge		Calm down, Doctor Harris, please. Where can we reach your wife? Does she have a cell phone?
martin		Yes... yes, she does... it's... I can't remember... His voice trails off. A long beat. Farge asks gently:
farge		Can you tell me what you do remember, Martin? Do you remember what day it is? A beat. Giving it thought... then:
martin		Thanksgiving. You told me that. I remember... almost everything. But I don't know how I got here. Another beat. He shakes his head. Scared...
farge		It's called retrograde amnesia. With severe trauma of this kind, memories get lost, or fractured. Most return... although it's unlikely you'll ever fully recall the events around your accident.
martin		Yes, yes... okay.
martin		My wife...? Meine Frau... ? Beat. The nurse shakes her head, apologetic. Martin watches a FAMILY, a wife and children, pass his door, visiting another patient. He turns his head, stares at his belongings...
farge		-- you have to realize the risk --
martin		Doctor, I've been gone for four days. My wife is out there, in a city she doesn't know. She must be terrified... I need to find her before --
farge		-- Let me call the hotel again. We can leave a message...
martin		Yes, fine, but look, I know her. She's looking for me. You're married, aren't you? What would you do? Farge tracks his own wedding band. A long beat. He sighs. Not happy about this at all.
farge		This is my card. Any nausea, dizziness, difficulty with speech, you contact me immediately. Do you understand?
martin		.Liz?
martin		Liz! I'm here, I... A HOTEL MAID appears from the bedroom door. Startled as she sees Martin...
maid		Ah. Entpfang... reception...
guard		Excuse me, sir. Do you have an invitation, sir?
martin		No... I mean yes... Distracted, still looking at passing faces...
strauss		Dr. Harris. Do you have any other identification? Passport? Drivers license?
martin		I've already told this gentleman, I've been in the hospital. I was in an accident... Martin sees someone through the crowd...
strauss		I'm sorry, sir...
martin		That's Professor Bressler, right there. He knows me, he can confirm who I am.
strauss		If you would be patient, sir.
martin		No, I'm done being patient... Martin stops short. Staring past them:
martin		Seeing her. The look on his face. Processing... an overwhelming mixture of confusion and relief.
strauss		Excuse me Madam. Your husband is here. He needs to --
martin		Liz... Liz turns fully. That beauty. A flash of surprise as she sees Martin. His clothes. The suture on his head.
liz		Excuse me... do I know you?
martin		Liz...? Please. It's me.
liz		And just who might 'you' be? Amused whispers. Martin, bewildered, growing angry.
martin		It's me. Martin. Your husband. Liz half smiles, glances around. Is this a joke? To the security guard, flustered:
liz		This is a... misunderstanding. I... I don't know this man. This is my husband... Martin. She calls to a MAN nearby engaged in conversation. Mid-30s like Martin. Elegant, groomed, athletic... conspicuously more handsome in a chiselled way. Know him as MARTIN B.
strauss		You are Dr. Harris?
martin		Is this some kind of a joke?
liz		What are you talking about... ?
martin		-- because it really isn't funny.
liz		joke about what?
martin		Do you have any idea what I've been through?
liz		No. I have no idea what you've been through.
martin		I've been in the hospital for four days! Where were you? Were you even trying to find me --?! Moment's strained silence. Strauss unsure what to do, signaling a guard. Martin B steps in...
martin		-- who the hell are you!?
martin		You. Whatever you think you're doing, you need to stop it.
strauss		If you don't leave now, sir, we'll have to call the police. Martin pulling free, steps away.
martin		 Great! That's the first good idea anyone's had. Call the police. Call the God damn Army!
martin		There! Right there! ON THE VIDEO: Slowing to real-time. Liz, arriving at reception, speaking with the Receptionist, gesturing outside.
strauss		As you can see... you're not there. Martin STARES at him, helpless. The Older Detective hangs up the phone...
older detective		Immigration confirms the arrival of a Doctor and Mrs. Harris on November 23rd at 16.37. An hour later they checked into their suite at the Hotel. Martin breathes in. Chooses his words carefully.
martin		He's not Martin Harris. I am Martin Harris. The man downstairs is pretending to be me.
older detective		And this impostor... may I ask? Did he also steal your wife?
martin		He's forcing her... he must have--
strauss		-- but why? Exactly? .Why? There's no answer to that. Martin looks down. A beat.
martin		This... this is insane. He stares at their faces. He calms himself, trying to get a grip. A memory resurfacing...
martin		it's Thanksgiving... no one's going to be there till Monday...  Rod... Rodney Cole... he's a colleague. A friend. I know his number... 603-389-4457... Female detective dutifully dials the number. RINGING again. CLICK of a machine. Then a jovial male voice:
martin		Professor Bressler, talk to him. He's why I'm in Berlin.
strauss		You want us to disturb a Nobel prize winning scientist, simply to attest to your story... when no crime has been committed?
martin		But it has!... That man has taken everything from me, don't you see? You have to arrest him...
strauss		For what? Entering the country legally? Presenting all the correct documentation? ON ONE OF THE MONITORS: A view of the Rose Room: Liz and Martin B visible in the corner, dining.
older detective		Even if she is your wife, sharing a room with her is not illegal. Not in Germany.
female detective		 Look at her. Soon we'll have twenty more men claiming to be her husband. The room tries not to laugh, can't help smiling. The monitor image flips, now just a corridor.
older detective		Listen... you have no proof you are even American. We can arrest you only for that.
martin		I told you, I was in an accident. I lost... I lost all my -- Wait, what are you doing...? The Female Detective listens to the radio response, nods to the Older Man who checks in with Strauss.
older detective		On Monday, you can speak with a lawyer. Tell him who you are. The Older Detective confers with the Female Detective. ON THE MONITORS: the image from the Rose Room reappears: Liz and Martin B visible: laughing, drinking. Martin's gaze darts, panicked: The image. The detectives. Strauss. Martin... coming to a decision...
martin		 I'm sorry... you're probably right. Faces look over, interested.
strauss		So... now you are saying that you are not Dr. Martin Harris? ON MARTIN. Eyes tight. Point of no return.
martin		I... I don't know.
martin		His gaze FIXED on them as the cab starts to move again...
martin		Wait! Stop! I've changed my mind... Martin thrusts a few bills forward, steps out...
martin		Rodney it's me, Martin. Rod, I'm in Berlin for the conference, but it's Liz. She's... I'm in trouble, Rod... Phone issues a DEMAND for more money. Martin fumbles for change, drops a crumpled ball of Euros into the GUTTER.
woman		Fur Reisepaf3... passport... A beat. Martin looks at her, helpless. The woman sighs. Pushes back his money.
man		 Please! Hold the door! He's mild-faced, glasses, carrying a shopping bag in one hand. He FROWNS as Martin does nothing to stop the door. The two men stare through the glass as the train begins to move. The man shakes his head: foreigners.
liz		Are you ready...?
martin		Are you going to give up?
martin		Can I help you? Hello? The guy points to his headphones, shrugs. Martin STARES at his screen, ears listening for the tell tale sound of music seeping from the earbuds... nothing. Martin rises suddenly, looks to the bored ATTENDANT who nods towards the back. Martin moves past college kids on Facebook, to a dim back corridor, a door marked "Manner," and what's he's looking for: a back door, cracked.
biko		He says he doesn't care if she saved your life... the bitch cost him 20,000 Euros... the insurance won't cover the cab because she had no license... the driver who was letting her moonlight in his taxi, skipped town... The depot manager's rage reaches a Hitlerian climax...
martin		So. I'm guessing he doesn't know where she is.
martin		Please thank him for his time.
biko		Hey, American. I'm sorry we couldn't help you --
martin		You know where she is. You paused. I could tell.
biko		Solomon... Solomon Obiko. My friends just call me Biko.
martin		Martin. Martin Harris.
martin		You remember me. You know who I am. She finishes the Turkish coffee, starts another.
gina		I don't drive a taxi. She takes the two drinks towards a table. He follows. Across the room, the owner eyes them.
martin		No, you do. I was in your taxi, we crashed. Why did you leave? Why didn't you talk to the police? Hey! She puts up a hand, calming him.
gina		Okay. Okay. How did you find me?
martin		Your friend, Biko.  It's not his fault. I told him I had money for you.
gina		Do you?
martin		No. I mean, not now. I -- Gina laughs, shakes her head, tries to push by him. He gets in her way. Eyes from around the room track.
martin		Yes, crazy... but it's true.
gina		What do you expect me to do? I'm an illegal, driving a taxi without a permit, in an accident without insurance. If the cops catch up with me they'll throw me in jail. If I'm in jail, I lose everything, understand? If I'm in jail, they deport me.
martin		You're not listening to me --
gina		No! It's you who is not listening. You're an American. Go to your fancy embassy. Go to the Police. There a million people here who will help you.
martin		But you know who I am.
gina		No, I don't. What's your name?
martin		Martin Harris, Doctor M --
gina		Okay, fantastic, you're Martin Harris. You're whoever you say you are. Yes, I picked you up and we crashed. It doesn't mean I know who you are! She backs off, a hand raised against him. He STARES after her, the truth of what she's said hitting him.
gina		What...?  To the airport. Arrivals. You were in a hurry.
martin		But I'd just arrived. It doesn't make any sense... She raises her hands, enough. He looks at her, takes in the bruise on her face.
gina		You'd have done the same.
martin		No. You can't be sure how you'll act. Not until something like that happens.
gina		Well... I know me. I jump in without thinking. It causes me lot of trouble. She looks up at him. Meets his eyes square for the first time. Then...
spiegler		 Have you contacted your Credit Card companies?
martin		No. You don't understand. As I explained to the last guar -- who went home by the way -- it's not about Credit Cards. Someone has taken over my identity. Someone is pretending to be me. Here. In Berlin. Spiegler nods, sensing this won't be an easy one.
spiegler		Did you contact the local authorities?
martin		Yes. They... They believe the other man. I need a new passport, papers to prove -- Spiegler sighs, a mixture impatience and sympathy.
spiegler		Why do they believe the other man?
martin		Because... Because my wife. He's staying with my wife. They must be forcing her -- Spiegler suppresses a small laugh, looks away.
spiegler		Do you know, the things people will do to get a US Passport...?
martin		Monday?! They've kidnappedmy wife. You need to find out who this other man is, you need to be in contact with my wife -- Spiegler exhales, cuttint Martin off. He picks up Martin's Rolex, glances at the initials. Looks at his copy of 'Horticus', the inscription on the inside cover. As he does, a slip of paper comes loose, Martin picks it up.
spiegler		You understand, we're not a detective agency, we... Spiegler stops, sensing Martin isn't listening anymore. Martin's staring at the slip of paper where on one side is
martin		I have a meeting with Bressler...
spiegler		What?
spiegler		Hey. Martin Harris. Here... Martin takes it.
martin		Excuse me. I need to find Professor Bressler's lab. I have an appointment at 12.30... I'm late... The female RECEPTIONIST behind the desk consults her screen. Beat. Frowns.
receptionist		Your name please?
martin		Dr. Martin Harris. The professor knows who I am. We scheduled this meeting weeks ago.
receptionist		The professor knows you?
martin		Well, we haven't met, but we've been corresponding. He invited me here to discuss my thesis. Dr. Martin Harris... She frowns, rises from the desk.
receptionist		Wait here please.
martin		Is there some sort of problem? No answer, she disappears into a back office. Martin shakes his head, exasperated. He scans the building plan on the wall... 'Bressler. L.P - Molekulare Botanik - 305'... Suddenly about-turns, heads for the stairs. The woman out of the office. SEES him.
receptionist		Nein... eingang ist verboten:
bressler		It's puzzling, one wonders how -- Bressler stops talking. Stares past Martin B at MARTIN, heading toward them down a corn row, eyes burning.
martin		Professor Bressler... Martin B turns, sees him. His eyes harden. But it's Bressler who speaks first. Alarmed, indignant:
bressler		This laboratory is a restricted area. Who are you?
martin		It's all right, Professor...
bressler		You know this man?
martin		Professor. He is not Martin Harris. I am Martin Harris.
bressler		So what is this? Some sort of hybridized propagation? There are two Martin Harrises?
martin		I called the police, you sonofabitch --!
martin		Drakea Drakensis... Miss Drake was wrong... . the PLANT SAMPLE on the table behind Bressler.
martin		I said I'd like to do the same for my kids. You talked about your children... Two girls... right? Yeah... their -- His voice falters... tails off into silence. Searching his memory. Expression shifting to one of panic...
martin		No! That wasn't you. Don't you remember? We spoke of how brave our wives were to marry ---
martin		I... this isn't happening... . the POLICE suddenly there. Two OFFICERS. Bressler signals for them to stay back. Martin lifts his eyes...
white light		Flickering like a candle in darkness. Suddenly CLOSER. BLINDING. Voices behind the light. A distorted form slowly TAKES SHAPE. A familiar bearded FACE...
farce		The police brought you here. The mistake was mine. I should never have let you leave. Martin blinks, bleary. Farge talks briefly to the nurse in German. She nods, starts prepping a hypodermic at a table. Farge looks back to Martin. Explains gently:
martin		Doctor... Do you know what it feels like, to become insane?
farge		..There is quite a lot of literature on the subject. But finally, I would say it's a
martin		I can tell you. Martin looks over, Farge almost RECOILS at the intensity in Martin's eyes. Fear. Loss. Anger.
martin		his mind struggles to compute. The sudden overwhelming realization that he's not insane. This man is HERE. His eyes DART as the other orderly glances over, the man from the train tunnel. Call him SMITH. He smiles at Martin, polite, nondescript. Ghostly in his disinterest.
jones		Hello, Martin. This won't take very long. Martin tries to raise up but can't move -- his arms and legs are like lead. He opens his mouth to call out, his voice barely a murmur. His eyes lock on the IV bag, the steady drip... drip... down the line into his body... The two men quickly lift Martin, hefting him face-down onto a gurney. One arm dangles.
nurse		 Excuse me, where are you taking this patient? Martin's vision RACKS, traces the Nurse's white sneakers, standing in the now open doorway to the room. Martin STRAINS to yell, to speak, nothing. He can just move his head enough to eyeball the IV. Drip... drip... drip...
jones		 We have instruction to move this patient to the American Hospital at Wiesbaden. Here are the papers. The rustle of paper. Martin CONCENTRATES, eyes on the IV tube, hanging between the bars of the gurney and his arm. Great Effort, He LEANS, pinching the tube closed. CLOSE ON THE IV: The drips... stop.
nurse		 I'm surprised I wasn't informed... Let me check with -- A SOUND, like paper torn quick... and THE NURSE FALLS TO THE FLOOR, STARING UP AT MARTIN,
martin		. pulls himself upright. Tries to stand, but his body is like Jello. Reaches out, grabs the leg of a steel equipment trolley which TEETERS... CRASHES to the floor, showering Martin with a CASCADE of instruments and dressings.
martin		It's okay... I'm fine... Paramedic would do something, but his colleague's YELLING at him to hurry. Just has to watch Martin go...
farge		.The man's condition was unusual, yes. But there was nothing to indicate violence.
older detective		Is he still dangerous? Farge watches the Coroner wheel away the Nurses's body.
farge		To someone who threatens that fantasy...? Yes. I believe he is.
jurgen		Alles in ordnung, Frau Brunner. He smiles. Frau Brunner retreats back behind her door. Jurgen turns to Martin. Eyes reading him.
jurgen		Siegler used to work for me. Did he tell you that? His laughter becomes a COUGH that racks his body. Lets it pass, before ushering Martin into a tiny living room.
martin		That's where Spiegler worked for you? The secret police?
jurgen		A true believer, like the rest of us. Now look at him. I should have had him shot. Another laugh, more COUGHING. Hands Martin a brandy.
martin		I always have it with me. It was a gift from my father... Jurgen flips it open. Notices the inscription, the NUMBERS written inside the front endpaper. A beat.
jurgen		These mean anything to you?
martin		No. It's my wife's handwriting.
jurgen		So, they mean something to her. He looks to Martin. Direct.
martin		My schedule... for this week. It's everything I remember. Jurgen turns over the card. German print. A cheery cartoon Uncle Sam: 'Uncle Sam's Bowling & Billiards'.
jurgen		Passport, credit cards, family photos... things like these take time to prepare. You say this man has detailed knowledge of your research, of your relationship with...
martin		Professor Bressler. He knows everything...
jurgen		Including the fact that you were going to have a random accident that would allow him seamlessly to take your place? These people may be good, but they're not God. The question is, why would they want to take your place? What could they gain from being you?
martin		They tried to kill me.
jurgen		Yes, did you a favor I'd say. Now you have... Redlichkeit... Now you know you are right.
martin		Do you believe me? A beat. Jurgen pours them both another brandy.
jurgen		In the Stasi, we had a basic principle: Ask enough questions and a man who is lying will eventually change his story. But a man who tells the truth cannot change his, however unlikely his story sounds. I believe you are telling the truth, Doctor Harris. A long beat. Jurgen closes the notebook.
martin		of money... ?
jurgen		Yes. Of money. Martin takes off his Rolex. Sets it on the table.
martin		It's all I have. I'll pay you in cash as soon as I can. Jurgen nods, picks up the watch. Turns it, looks at the engraving on the back. As Martin turns to leave...
jurgen		Doctor Harris... A wince of pain as Jurgen gets up. Lifts a tea tin off the shelf. Opens it. Takes out a hundred Euros...
martin		Thank you.
jurgen		I'll need twenty-four hours. Call me tomorrow afternoon. Do you have a place to stay? A long beat. Off Martin's FACE...
gina		 Hey, friend. We're closing... The man looks up: It's Martin. He's exhausted, wet. His eyes full of need and fear.
martin		I'm sorry. Please. I had nowhere else to go... She starts to respond, holds it back. Nods.
gina		I know the feeling.
martin		I just need to know. The man you picked up, the man who's life you saved. That was me, right? It was me. She looks down at him, moved. Eyes track his wedding ring.
gina		You're married. What about your wife?
martin		I... don't know.
gina		It was you. Martin Harris. You.
gina		Don't be an idiot. Come on... He hesitates, then lets her lead him out of the cafe. In the corner, the owner watches them go. The TV NEWS changes, flashes a special. The Owner looks up: ON TELEVISION: Martin's face, caught by a camera at the hospital. Juxtaposed next to it, a smiling picture of the Nurse. German text scrolls: "Wanted for Murder..." The Owner's hand moves, picks up the phone.
gina		So, how long are you married?
martin		.Five years.
gina		Where did you meet her?
martin		Yale... I was a teaching assistant. Liz heard me lecture.
gina		And there's no way she just didn't... recognize you? He shakes his head. They reach the cement steps of an overpass, climb.
martin		.You don't have to believe me. It's crazy, I know. Gina pauses, stares through chain-link at the cars below.
gina		Everyone has a story... Where they came from, where they are going, what happened to them. Why they're not happy, or alone.  Who you are, what you do, right now. She reaches in her jacket. Opens the notebook she was writing in. Columns of figures.
martin		I'd still have my memories.
gina		You see? We're different. You like your memories. very American of you. He nods. She shrugs, turns away.
gina		Slivovic.
martin		Thank you. He takes a sip. Then another. Gina watching him. Muffled TV and arguing VOICES in Turkish from the floor below.
gina		The walls are made of cardboard... but it's home. Another smile, tired. A long beat. Abruptly, Gina gets up and leaves the room. Sound of drawers opening.
cafe owner		 You guys are quick... The BADGE lowers. It's Jones. Looks utterly nonthreatening, plain. But the Owner's voice falters.
martin		Oh. I'm sorry, I just... I'm sorry. Did you do these?
gina		I give you a place to stay, it doesn't give you the right to --
martin		No, you're right...  I'm sorry. They're beautiful. You should --
gina		I should what? Have been an artist? Perhaps in Bosnia...  "Can you imagine what it's like, to wake up one day. And your whole life... has been erased?" He STARES at her, moved. That connection again. He looks away. Looks back again...
martin		Your eyes... It's the one thing I remember about the accident. Your eyes in the mirror... He tails off. Face-to-face... BANG! BANG! Pounding on the door. Gina motions Martin out of sight as she opens the door... .It's Biko, the soft-spoken Somali taxi-driver. He grins. Tries teasingly to peek past her into the apartment.
biko		You got company? She puts her foot against the door, inscrutable. Biko drops a set of keys into her hand.
gina		You're the best. She pecks him on the cheek. Biko pushes in the door, just a little, but enough to catch Martin, in his undershirt, carrying the rest of his clothes, halfway to the shower.
martin		I'm... I'm just going... in here. Biko looks at Gina, raises an eyebrow.
gina		Yes, that's right. I sleep with every married American you send my way -- Thank you for that, by the way.
biko		Hey, no need to explain to me.
gina		Get on your way! Go! She pushes him out, closes the door. The stew has started to SMOKE. Gina moves it off the burner.
biko		 Hey, while you're at it, check the line to number eight. She's always getting bad service. One of the men lifts his face. It's JONES. Biko takes them in, their clothes... frowns.
gina		Just a moment, Biko. And you're going to be late -- She throws open the door... SMITH and JONES press in! Jones clamping a hand over her mouth. Watching them work is awe-inspiring, chilling. There's no wasted motion whatsoever. Their faces calm, observant. Jones holds Gina, gun covers the dark entrance to the bathroom where the shower still runs as Smith turns the music up LOUD, then opens the oven, blows out the pilot light, turns on the gas... CLOSE ON THE GAS -- A hazy layer, rippling over the floor... Smith grabs a candle off Gina's table, lights its wick, sets it on top of the stove.
gina		Terror-stricken, realizing Martin has abandoned her. Jones nods to Smith who goes out the door, covers the hall. Jones FLIPS Gina onto her stomach, presses her face to the floor, pulling down the top of her pants as he prepares to inject her with the hypodermic. She struggles, SCREAMS IN RAGE, chokes on the gas. Her EYES WIDEN as Jones slides the needle in, starts to PRESS... . CRASH! Martin blasts in from the fire escape, through the window nearest them, catching Jones in the face, cutting his face. He tumbles over -- his gun sliding away...
martin		No, look! She tracks his gaze: Down below, Jones exits the building, looks up amidst other onlookers. Wipes blood from his face. Martin looks around, wild, for anything, his gaze settling on: the far wall. Flames FLARE in, growing.
martin		We have to go up... He starts to pull her, but she's FROZEN, staring in horror. Martin tracks her gaze: Biko's body, tucked under the stairs. Lifeless eyes stare back.
martin		The keys. Where are the keys? Gina stares at him, lost. Martin reaches into her pockets. Finds Biko's keys. He HAULS broken panes, debris off the car, manages to get it open. He bundles her inside.
martin		C'mon. C'mon... IN THE REARVIEW: The Range Rover, making a U-Turn, heading their way...
gina		Left --! Turn left... Martin spins the wheel. Taxi swerves across oncoming traffic into a SIDE-STREET. Gina waving frantically...
martin		C'mon...! Running side-by-side. Train horn BLASTS as they cross right in front of it as the Range Rover, cut off, SPINS 90 degrees, races down the tracks alongside it. Martin and Gina scramble across tracks, towards a tunnel... . the Range Rover passes the back of the train. HARD right, over the tracks. Too Fast. The car catches air... . BELLIES down hard onto the next set of tracks. Front tire EXPLODES... . Range Rover SPINS... rear wheels SLAM into the track. Another tire BURSTS. Scraping STOP, car straddling the rails. Jones shifts into reverse. Rims SPIN against metal.
smith		Jumps up. Sprints after them. Through the steel door...
up ahead		Martin and Gina, squeezed together between laughing faces, drunken youth, singing, chanting...
gina		Come on... They push their way forward through the crush.
chill space		Even darker, only small glowing lights, candles, neon tubing casts shadows. Quiet almost, only the dull 'thud" of the bass reaches them. He puts a hand on her shoulder... she pushes it off.
martin		Gina...
gina		His family is in Africa. The money will just stop coming... they'll never know why... . Martin calming her, stroking her head. Her hand finding his, gripping it tight, wanting the contact. Martin looking down at the face buried in his chest. Feeling versus memory. Gina... Liz... Torn. A long beat. Her control returning. And her strength. She separates from him.
liz		Are you ready... ? Liz rubs dust off his face, leans in to kiss him...
gina		.Put these on. She pulls a mod shirt on, glances back as he now undresses.
martin		.Yes. I think so... I don't remember... how it felt exactly. She approaches him, leans in so she can see his eyes...
gina		So why would she do this to you?
martin		.For the same reason I would. If I thought it was the only way to protect her. Gina nods, distant. Martin presses on, difficult.
gina		 In Bosnia... It was not like you probably imagine. It was nice. .there were cherry blossoms.
martin		We're you...
gina		What? Raped?
martin		I won't let anything happen to you.
martin		I'll protect you. She opens her eyes again, looks up at him, smiles, on her way to sleep.
gina		.Cool.
martin		Thank you for coming. Martin glances around, edgy. Jurgen watches him, glances at Gina long enough to let Martin know he's spotted her.
jurgen		You know, the most dangerous man in the world is the man who feels that he is drowning. He will drag under anyone who tries to help him. Jurgen sets his newspaper on the bar. A picture and article about the murdered nurse. Martin's picture, fuzzy.
martin		 I... I didn't do it. Jurgen studies him, hard. Looks back at Gina.
jurgen		You said you had something. Martin feels in his pockets, takes out the copy of 'Horticus', turns to the numbers on the end papers.
martin		These numbers, are a code. The first number refers to the page of a given book. The second to a specific line on that page. The third number to words on that line. If I didn't have the exact edition of the book, the code would be unbreakable.
jurgen		 And what do the numbers refer to?
martin		That's where it breaks down -- the words are the Latin names of two plant species... Calochortus Albus... and Umbellularia Californica. Fairy Lantern... and California Bay. Both common flowering plants...
jurgen		Not part of your work? Or Professor Bressler's? Martin shakes his head. Jurgen grunts. Pencils notes...
martin		"The role of Gorytini and Thynnidae in Drakea pollination."
jurgen		And it was after reading it that he invited you here. Correct?
martin		Correct. Yes. Look --
jurgen		Did you ever know someone called Laurence Darnell? Martin looks at him quizzically. Shakes his head.
jurgen		So they're not close?
martin		In a way... they're opposites. Bressler wants to end world hunger. Open research... universal access to all his data on crop cultivation...
jurgen		But Fahad's just a businessman.
martin		They're both progressives. Fahad knows we'll need food long after oil. New agricultural patents are worth billions...
jurgen		But his progressiveness has cost him... his own people hate him... the attempts on his life...
martin		He's got balls, that's for sure. Another beat. Jurgen slides the 'Uncle Sam' bookmark card from the pages of the 'Horticus'... turns it over, Martin's remembered schedule scribbled on the back.
jurgen		There's a cocktail party, before Bressler's speech tonight?
martin		It's in our suite. Champagne and hors d'oeuvres for Bressler and a few of his guests.
jurgen		Is Fahad going to be there?
martin		Yes. Bressler invited him... Martin trails off. Starting to get there...
jurgen		Martin Harris... with just a few guests, in a confined space with Prince Fahad. For some, that might be a very good reason to want to be you.
martin		Oh, Jesus... You can't -- Jurgen flips his notebook shut. Gets up.
jurgen		-- I need a few more hours. You need to go somewhere you will not be seen. Then meet me outside the Cafe Adler on the
gina		We have to go. We have to do what Jurgen said, stay out of -- She starts to pull him away, but he's not moving. He's staring at the pre-paid cell phones on display.
martin		Jurgen may have nothing.  I need your help.
martin		Yes, hello, this is Dr. Harris. I have a message for Dr. Bressler...
gina		Why here?
martin		.The zoo. She loves Polar Bears. I never knew exactly why. Gina nods, looks over to the restaurant. Looks back at Martin who hasn't moved. She checks her watch.
gina		Okay, go. You're going to be late for your date.
martin		This shouldn't take long. I just need to see what Bressler wants. Liz's gaze settles on the painted sign for the zoo.
liz		Take your time, I want to see the zoo anyway. ON LIZ. Memory, or nostalgia, touch her cool face.
bressler		I thought we might have a table for three, in case you still had your alter ego with you.
bressler		Well, it's a lesson. You never know what people will do. All my work used to be on-line, my e- mails on an open server. A year ago, someone broke into my office and stole my computer. I believe they were after my research. Luckily, I split my data up and double encrypt it until I put it all together and make it public. That's why this stays with me until tonight's over... Martin B nods, starts to look at his menu...
bressler		No! God NO! You're focusing on the science, but this...  .this is history. You open the research before it's finished, the conglomerates gobble it up. In the entire history of human development, name me one time when business has ever acted except in its own self-interest.
bressler		It doesn't matter.  But see you, you say I am too cautious. It's an idiot thing to say. I'm a realist!
bressler		Don't be stupid. You can't offend me. We are colleagues, this is good discussion. But please, Dr. Harris -- Power is an animal, all to itself. It adapts, mutates to whatever form will best preserve it. It's always closer than we know. ON MARTIN B, extending a hand...
martin		Standing across from her in this protected space. A strange numbness. Doesn't know where to start...
martin		. Liz. Just that syllable. She stares back, features tense.
liz		What are you doing here?
martin		Liz. What's happening?
liz		You're crazy -- you have to leave me alone.
martin		Why --?: I have to know why, Liz. Are they making you do this? Are they threatening you?
liz		.How did you find me --
martin		The zoo. The Polar Bears.
liz		I can't...
martin		You can't what?
liz		. can't get out. Can't leave. They'll kill me.
liz		I... I can't answer that.
martin		Come with me, right now. We can
liz		No! They'll kill us both!
martin		Who are they? She shakes her head, tormented.
liz		Please. Not now. Not until we're safe. Then I'll explain everything, I promise. All I want is for us to get out alive. You have to believe me... Urgent look around. Her eyes lock on his.
martin		My case...? She closes on him. A wave of emotion as she's almost in his arms, her hands on his face, searching his eyes.
liz		Your briefcase. It got left behind. At the airport. That's why you were going back there. You need to find it...
gina		Behind the glass of the penguin exhibit. She saw the kiss.
martin		Cuts up a small path rising up from the Polar Bear area. At the top he turns, hiding himself, looking back.
martin		.Nothing he can do now. He turns away, moves to the top of the path where Gina waits for him. They walk in silence...
gina		She's pretty... Martin doesn't acknowledge. Each face a mix of emotions.
jurgen		hears the phone START RINGING again inside his apartment. Fumbles in his pocket for the key.
jurgen		Ja ?
jurgen		Yes, it is.
cole		Oh my God... that's unbelievable, the poor man. Well here's the good news -- I've just arrived in Berlin... yes, I've been teaching in Leipzig, at the Hochschule fur Technik. I came up for the last day to hear Bressler's speech...
jurgen		 
the hallway		Jurgen opens the door... it's RODNEY COLE, grinning... shaking rain from his coat.
cole		Herr Jurgen?
jurgen		Dr. Cole... Please, come on in. Jurgen ushers him in. Leads them into the living room.
jurgen		Maybe some coffee? I'm making some for myself.
cole		I'm good. Thanks. Cole looks around the tiny apartment. Sees the framed photos on the mantel. Looks closer.
jurgen		The Stasi. In East Germany.
cole		Wow, wait till I tell my son. He loves all that Cold War stuff. Look at that car. What is that?
jurgen		A 'Zil'. Suspension of a donkey cart and smelt like a tannery. Vanished as quickly as the Wall. Cole studies the other pictures. Notices Martin's Rolex beside them. Jurgen pours the kettle into his mug.
cole		So. This business with Martin. A hell of a thing. How did he find you?
jurgen		Quite by chance, as it happens.
cole		Sounds like he was damn lucky. So, what can I do to help?
jurgen		Come with us to the authorities. Help them confirm his identity.
cole		The authorities? Jesus, it's that bad? A guy comes to you with a story like that. What made you take the case?
jurgen		Curiosity...
cole		Curiosity? Is that all?
jurgen		Professional curiosity. There's not much in this world left to interest an old spy like me... Cole's face tightens... his back still toward Jurgen.
cole		You had fifteen minutes after I called. Why didn't you run?
jurgen		Where would I run from Section 15, Mr. Cole? I can hardly walk. The edge of a smile, another large gulp of the coffee. Jurgen sets down the cup. He wheezes...
cole		I want to know how he found you. I want every number, every source you've contacted on his behalf.
jurgen		And then what? We shake hands and you go away? Cole reaches a hand inside his jacket...
cole		But we do. The best of us. Jurgen coughs again. Suddenly sways. Puts a hand out to steady himself. Knocking over the mug of coffee... as the cyanide sweeps through him. Trembling hands clasp the edge of table. Building force. Shaking. His piercing eyes never leaving Cole... through the pain:
jurgen		Tell me... if he remembers everything. What then...? No answer. Jurgen's hands slip. He slumps forward, his head hammering down onto the table. A final convulsion. Then he's still. A long beat. Cole buttons his jacket. Slips on some gloves. Gently lifts Jurgen's head from the table top, rests it on a forearm, as though Jurgen were asleep rather than dead. Restoring some dignity to him. Cole goes to the mantel, wipes off the one framed photo he picked up. Takes Martin's Rolex, drops it into his pocket. He turns, casting an expert eye over the apartment... The legs of the stove... ever so slightly askew... The phone RINGS... RINGS... Cole ignores it, moves forward.
woman		May I see some identification? She looks up. Martin's expression distant...
gina		He doesn't have any. He was in an accident, that's why the bag was unclaimed...
martin		The combination. For the lock. It's 2... 8... 0... 6... A beat. The woman and Gina both looking at Martin. The woman enters the numbers. The locks pop open. She lifts the lid, picks something up. A pause... then her expression softens. She turns it toward Martin...
the briefcase		Filled with personal effects. Sitting on top a US passport. A long beat. Martin's hands unsteady as he opens it...
martin		gazing at it. He runs his fingers over its dock-eared corners, every bump and crease. Looks up to find Gina watching him. A long, awkward pause. She reaches over. Takes the photo from him. Studies it.
gina		Can you remember now... how you felt? Martin's silence hangs in the noise and activity around them. Gina handing back the photo. He stares down at Liz again as Gina stands, start to collect her things...
martin		.Yes. I'm sorry. Yes. She's my wife. She's in danger. I have to --
gina		 That's good. I'm happy for you. I have to go.
martin		No, wait. I meant what I said. We can take care of you. I can get you money, arrange --
martin		Gina stops, turns. A beat. Sadness, anger.
gina		One kiss and suddenly... Everything that's happened? To Biko? To us? -- I know, she's your wife. Like I said, I'm an idiot.
gina		Wait. There's another passenger.
man		Martin. Martin...? Martin hesitates, turns. Sees... RODNEY COLE. Beaming smile. Martin stares at him, bewildered.
cole		Jesus, Martin, how are you doing?
martin		Rodney? What are you doing here?
cole		You called me, remember? You left a message on my machine.
martin		Yeah... but how did you know --?
cole		Stay one step ahead of me. Any move, I'll shatter your spine. His voice flat with menace. Martin's mouth opening...
martin		What are -- ?
cole		-- Go... Martin glancing round. Cole jerks him back, guiding him toward the passenger pick-up zone.
gina		Help me with my bags, please. The driver goes to fetch the case. Is stopped by its OWNER. Raised voices. Moment's confusion. Then... .the SQUEAL of TIRES. The taxi driver spins around to see Gina gone and his own taxi pulling away. He YELLS after her, furious. But she's off in traffic...
martin's eyes		dart between Cole and Smith. Heart racing. Struggling to make sense of things. Cole studying him in quiet amazement. Shakes his head. Thinking out loud...
cole		My God... she's right. You're completely gone. You really think you are Martin Harris.
martin		What the hell Rod! You're my oldest friend! You know who I am. It's me... it's not that other guy. He's not --
cole		-- Martin Harris? You're right. He's not. He's the guy who took over for you after you went missing. Exasperated, Cole leans forward. Spelling it out.
martin		No... That's insane. Liz, she----
cole		'Liz'...? Your "wife"? How do you think she feels about all this? You two were a good team, then you go and get Norman fucking Rockwell on her.
martin		That's not... she...
cole		-- they aren't real memories. Don't you get it? Martin Harris is a fabrication... but you've one and filled in the caps, invented a whole damn life for him. They could write a textbook about you! Jesus --! Martin's face. Spinning. Refusing to believe. The Van SCREECHES to a stop, Smith gets out pops the doors. The distant sound of the city traffic, a light wind, whistling.
cole		All that studying... planning. Hell, you even had us take out that kid after we ripped off his thesis. A year of prep and you try to screw it up... . we do everything to bring you back in, but you go on trying to screw it up. Do you know how much time you've wasted? It's Thanksgiving for Christ's sake! I should be eating turkey with my kids, not here cleaning up after some wacko who bumps his head and decides his cover story's for real. Martin's eyes... staring back at him. Crumbling...
martin		But... I... who am I...? A pause. Cole shakes his head, pats him on the cheek.
cole		You. You were my best boy. .suddenly Cole SLAMS a fist into Martin's stomach. Martin doubles over. Cole WHIPS the gun across his FACE. Kicks him AGAIN. Martin on his hands and knees, spits blood. Cole glaring down at him. Disgusted. Smith covers Martin as Cole moves into the van, empties out a junkie's works: dropper with needle, bottle top, cotton balls, lighter. Expertly cooks up a fix of brown heroin. Draws it into the syringe, glancing back:
martin		Wait! WAIT! Martin breaks free, walks unsteady to the rear of the van, locks eyes with Cole, trapped, clawing towards the back... Martin puts a hand out... and takes his briefcase.
cole		Caught, the van TEETERING... Sneers at Martin, starts to speak.. Eyes go WIDE as... THE VAN... TIPS... FALLING off the edge, Smith's body going with it... disappears. A moment of calm silence and then CRUNCH! A dull sick crash as the Van hits below.
martin		Stares down at the wreck. Mind spinning... Gina comes up, touches his shoulder.
gina		Martin... He turns, MOVES. She chases after him...
martin		. Jurgen... we were going to meet... I have to see him.
gina		We've got to go... leave Berlin. We've got to get out of here...!
martin		I have to! Martin's face. Blood streaking in the rain. Absolute. A long beat. Gina takes a deep breath.
gina		Martin...?
martin		he told me I'm one of them... the things he said... the things he said I've done...  How can I be that person?
gina		Listen to me. You're not. You're not... Martin, looking up at her, lost. His eyes back to the clock on the wall: 6.15... Martin closes his eyes. Gina reaches out. Quiet. Gentle:
martin		Thank you.
martin		No...
liz		Are you ready...? .and MARTIN ENTERS THE FRAME, hair cut and colored differently. There's drywall dust on his hands and clothing. As he leans to kiss her, we CONTINUE... .INTO THE BATHROOM... to a wall beside the shower... panels cut away, exposed plumbing. Something integrated into the wall behind the pipes. MOVING CLOSER... Semtex plastigue... circuits and wires... dii video timer connected to a high-tech DETONATOR...
gina		The entry stamp in your passport. You were in Berlin three months ago... Martin, like a statue. Voice, dead.
martin		Prince Fahad is going to be assassinated today. There's a bomb in the suite. I put it there. A long beat. Gina's eyes meet his, brief, scared. Sudden shift. Martin stuffs the cash back in the bag. Grabs her by the arm, propels them both outside...
martin		Take this... get out of Berlin. Gina shaking her head.
gina		I'm not leaving you! Listen to me: Maybe you're not the man who went into the water. But you are the man I pulled out... Martin, staring into his reflection on the wet street...
passing inside		Martin, buttoning the last button of the jacket, moves into the hotel. No longer lost. Here to make amends.
liz		Your highness... we're honored you could attend this evening.
fahad		 The honor is all mine. Liz BEAMS, gestures him into the room filled with a dozen or so notable guests. Martin B engrossed in a conversation...
farad		 I don't think the professor needs an invitation. He is, after all, the reason we are all here.
bressler		Now I can see why somebody would pretend to be Martin. Liz laughs, her face lighting up... then chillincj as Bressler's TWO DAUGHTERS appear behind him, smiling shy.
liz		.I didn't realize the girls were coming this evening.
fahad		But of course. Lily and Laurel are the real reason any of us put up with Leo at all. Fahad bends down and the girls run to him, a familiar face. Fahad hoists one up, takes the other by the hand. ON LIZ. Hard beat. Looking to Martin B who stares back, cool. Liz nods, accepting the casualties. She takes Bressler's coat, reaches for his computer bag.
liz		Let me take these... Bressler hesitates a moment, then lets go...
bressler		Separation anxiety. Just leave it there, if you could. He gestures to a sideboard in open sight.
liz		Of course...
bathroom		Same P.O.V. we've seen in Martin's flashes. SMASH CUT...
security guard		 Where is Herr Strauss...?
liz		Checking on your baby again?
bressler		I can't help it.
liz		Why don't you just wear it? As a nerdy accessory? Here, turn around. Liz picks up the bag. Adjusts the strap... slipping out the Bluetooth. Places the bag over Bressler's shoulders.
martin		You're not listening! There is a bomb, in the Eisenhower Suite. I put it there.
strauss		But isn't that the suite 'you' are staying in, 'Dr. Harris'...? Or wait, you're not Dr. --
martin		I've told you! There's no time to explain this...
security guard		Invitation? She meets the guard's gaze with cool superiority. Her eyes flick to Fahad across the room.
gina		Are you serious...? Why don't you ask the Prince? The guard hesitates, unsure... it's all she needs. She moves by him, into the room.
strauss		.What exactly are you hoping to find? Martin ignores him, his eyes TRACKING.
martin		There! Stop! The technician freezes the image: A dapper couple, checking in. He wears a sportsjacket, light-haired, horn-rimmed glasses. She's got short dark hair. Martin points. Strauss leans in, sensing it.
strauss		 You, take him downstairs. Strauss and his men flood out. The guard pulls keys, starts to uncuff Martin from his chair.
liz		Stop the timer. I'll finish it. Martin B nods, takes the stairs back up two at a time, shouldering his way past the folk streaming downward...
bressler		Lily! Lily!
gina		Professor! Over here! Gina at the table she saw Lily at before, lifts the tablecloth to find a frightened little girl staring back.
martin		Lily, Laurel... The smile... dying. Realization...
beyond them		LIZ, moving purposefully towards the group, closing, her hand in the unzipped top of the sportsbag slung over her shoulder. Glimpse of an oiled-black Uzi machine pistol.
behind them		Liz closes, tracking, finger flicks off Uzi's safety.
martin		Gina1 Gina! MARTIN is moving, pressing through crowds.
gina		Seeing Martin and Liz, embracing. Confused. Alarmed. Hurt.
martin		No...
liz		Oh, and after you've shot him, point the gun at the Police.
martin		I won't do it...
liz		God you're weak. The 'Martin' I knew wouldn't have been able to go on living like you are.
gina		Martin...? Martin? He STARES at her. Tears in his eyes...
gina		Also seeing the gun. A hand going out, a scream building...
martin		Bringing the Vun up, pointed at Bressler's head, perfect kill shot. No choice. Finger on the trigger...
liz		.Hello, Martin. REVOLVING... to find Martin there. Bleeding, hurt, covered is debris, but holding the gun on her in unsteady hands.
martin		Don't. Keep your hands where I can see them. Please... GROANING from the hotel structure. Plaster and cables fall, SPARK across the floor. Martin FLINCHES, tries to keep steady. Liz is steady, cool. Laughs a little.
liz		You know, working with you... it almost wasn't work. We were so good... You, were so good. At the job. At other things... She smiles a little, warming.
martin		Let go of the knife, Liz.
liz		'Liz?'... Don't you want to know y real name? Don't you still want... me? She leans forward, just a breath. Warmth radiating, Martin stepping back...
martin		Please, just stop, Liz... Her face, reading him. His fear, his uncertainty... She smiles, just a little... Liz throws the knife! Martin FIRES as the blade sinks into him, sending him reeling back onto the floor.
martin		His hand going to the knife sunk in his shoulder, SCREAMING in agony as he rips it out, looking up at...
liz		A soft distance in her face. A small hole in her chest, just below her beautiful collar bone. Her eyes find him, focus, smile...
liz		You'll never know. You'll never know who you are... A long beat. We're not sure when exactly the life goes out of her eyes. Finally, Martin pulls himself forward. Gently closes her eyelids.
gina		moves through the crowd, anxiously searching the stream of people still pouring from the building... She JUMPS as a hand takes her arm. Turns her. Martin. she stumbles back, hands raised against him. Fear, betrayal, love... Him standing there, empty, bleeding...
tv anchor		Less than twenty-four hours after the failed assassination attempt on the Saudi prince... Image switches to Fahad seated in a PRESS CONFERENCE where Bressler is speaking...
humanitarian organizations		applauded the announcement, while the Dow Jones saw agri-business stocks plunge four percent... PULL BACK from the TV... one of several in the central CAFE AREA in...
gina		Hey... Do you know? What you would have done...? He looks back at her, starts to speak. An ANNOUNCEMENT cuts through, their train leaving. They stand, move off...
****Dialogues from script :Up.txt****

muntz		"Adventure is out there!"
muntz		Gentlemen, I give you: the Monster of Paradise Falls!
crowd		Ooh! Young Carl leans forward, eyes bulging.
young carl		No!
muntz		I promise to capture the beast... alive!
muntz		And I will not come back until I do! The crowd CHEERS.
young ellie		It's a beautiful day, winds out of the east at ten knots. Visibility... unlimited.  skitters in its cage.
young ellie		Oh! There's something down there! I will bring it back for science. Awwww, it's a puppy!
young ellie		What are you doing!?!
young ellie		Don't you know this is an exclusive club? Only explorers get in here. Not just any kid off the street with a helmet and a pair of goggles. Do you think you got what it takes? Well, do you?!?
young ellie		Alright, you're in. Welcome aboard. She offers her hand.   Carl looks down, embarrassed.
young ellie		What's wrong? Can't you talk? Carl is frozen.   Ellie softens.
young ellie		Hey, I don't bite. She takes off her helmet.   Her hair frizzes out in all directions. She removes a homemade GRAPE SODA CAP pin from her shirt and pins it on Carl.
young ellie		You and me, we're in a club now.
young ellie		I saw where your balloon went. Come on, let's go get it!
young ellie		My name's Ellie.
young ellie		There it is.
young ellie		Well, go ahead. She pushes him out onto the beam.
young ellie		Go on.
young carl		 Ow!
young ellie		Hey kid!!
young carl		Ow!!
young ellie		Thought you might need a little cheerin' up. I got somethin' to show ya!
young ellie		I am about to let you see something I have never shown to another human being. Ever. In my life. Carl's eyes widen in alarm.
young ellie		You'll have to swear you will not tell anyone. Carl nods.
young ellie		Cross your heart. Do it! Carl crosses.    Ellie unveils...
young ellie		My Adventure Book! It's a reused photo album with the words "My Adventure Book" written across it. She opens it to a photo of Charles Muntz.
young ellie		You know him. Carl smiles excitedly.
young ellie		Charles Muntz, explorer. When I get big, I'm going where he's going: South America. She turns the page to a map.
young ellie		It's like America... but south. Wanna know where I'm gonna live?
young ellie		 "Paradise Falls, a land lost in time." I ripped this right out of a library book.
young ellie		I'm gonna move my clubhouse there, and park it right next to the falls. Who knows what lives up there? And once I get there...
young ellie		Well, I'm saving these pages for all the adventures I'm gonna have. Only... I just don't know how I'm gonna get to Paradise Falls. Ellie closes the book, disappointed.
young ellie		That's it! You can take us there in a blimp! Swear you'll take us. Cross your heart! Cross it! Cross your heart.
young ellie		Good. You promised. No backing out.
young ellie		Well, see you tomorrow kid!   Bye.
young ellie		"Adventure is out there!!"
young ellie		You know, you don't talk very much. I like you.
young carl		Wow.
carl		Quite a sight, huh Ellie?  Uhp, mail's here.
carl		Shady Oaks Retirement.    Oh brother.
carl		Hm.
carl		No. Yes. Tell your boss over there that you boys are ruining our house.
carl		I believe I made my position to your boss quite clear.
carl		Oh yeah, that was good. Here, let me talk to him.
carl		 You in the suit. Yes, you.      Take a bath, hippy!
carl		Tell your boss he can have our house.
carl		When I'm dead! Carl SLAMS the door.  CONSTRUCTION FOREMAN TOM I'll take that as a maybe!
russell		"Good afternoon. My name is Russell. And I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54, Sweatlodge 12. Are you in need of any assistance today, sir?"
carl		No.
russell		I could help you cross the street.
carl		No.
russell		I could help you cross your yard.
carl		No.
russell		I could help you cross your... porch?
carl		No.
russell		Well, I gotta help you cross something.
carl		Uh, no.   I'm doing fine.
russell		"Good afternoon. My name is Russell."
carl		Uh... kid...
russell		"And I am a Wilderness Explorer in
carl		Kid.   KID!!
russell		"Are you in need of any assistance today Sir?"
carl		Thank you, but I don't need any help!
russell		Ow.
russell		"Good afternoon. My-"
carl		But skip to the end!
russell		See these? These are my Wilderness Explorer badges. You may notice one is missing. It's my Assisting the Elderly badge. If I get it I will become a Senior Wilderness Explorer! Russell makes the Explorer Sign: his thumbs form a "W", his fingers the "wings" of a bird, then the "claws" of a bear.
russell		"The wilderness must be explored!  CAW-CAW! RAAAR!"
russell		It's gonna be great! There's a big ceremony, and all the dads come, and they pin on our badges...
carl		So you want to assist an old person?
russell		Yep! Then I will be a Senior Wilderness Explorer! Carl leans in close to Russell.
carl		  You ever heard of a snipe?
russell		Snipe?
carl		Bird. Beady eyes. Every night it sneaks in my yard and gobbles my poor azaleas. I'm elderly and infirm. I can't catch it. If only someone could help me...
russell		Me! Me!   I'll do it!
carl		Oh, I don't know, it's awfully crafty. You'd have to clap your hands three times to lure it in.
russell		I'll find it, Mr. Fredricksen!
carl		I think its burrow is two blocks down. If you go past --
russell		Two blocks down! Got it!
russell		Sniiiipe! Here Snipey Snipey...
carl		 Bring it back here when you find it! Carl rolls his eyes and begins to close his door.
carl		What? Hey! Hey you!         What do you think you're doing?  CONSTRUCTION WORKER STEVE I am so sorry, sir...
carl		Don't touch that!
carl		I don't want you to touch it! Carl HITS the worker with his cane.      He falls to the sidewalk. The worker rubs his head.    Blood.
officer edith		Sorry Mr. Fredricksen. You don't seem like a public menace to me. Take this.
officer edith		The guys from Shady Oaks will be by to pick you up in the morning, okay? The officer drives off, leaving Carl alone.
carl		What do I do now, Ellie?
match dissolve		 TO:
carl		Morning gentlemen.
nurse george		Good morning, Mr. Fredricksen.    You ready to go?
carl		Ready as I'll ever be. Would you do me a favor and take this?
carl		I'll meet you at the van in just a minute. I... want to say one last goodbye to the old place.
nurse george		Sure.   Take all the time you need, sir.
nurse george		You'd think he'd take better care of his house.
carl		So long boys! I'll send you a postcard from Paradise Falls!
carl		We're on our way, Ellie. Carl kneels at the fireplace and plunks the balloon strings tied to the grate. He CHUCKLES and settles into his chair.   He closes his eyes and smiles. SHADOWS move gently across the fireplace mantle.
carl		Huh?
carl		Hm.
russell		Hi, Mr. Fredricksen.    It's me, Russell.
carl		What are you doing out here, kid?
russell		I found the snipe and I followed it under your porch, but this snipe had a long tail and looked more like a large mouse.
russell		Please let me in?
carl		No.
carl		Oh, alright, you can come... Russell runs into the house past Carl.
carl		...in.
russell		Huh. I've never been in a floating house before.
russell		Goggles.   Look at this stuff! Russell finds Ellie's house drawing sitting on the pages of the open atlas.
russell		Wow, you going on a trip?  "Paradise Falls: A Land Lost in Time." You going to South America, Mr. Fredricksen? Carl takes the page and puts it in his pocket.
carl		Don't touch that.   You'll soil it.
russell		You know, most people take a plane, but you're smart because you'll have all your TV and clocks and stuff. Russell runs over to the steering rig.
russell		Whoah.   Is this how you steer your house?   Does it really work?
carl		Kid, would you stop with the -- Russell steers and the house tilts, knocking Carl back and forth.
russell		Oh, this makes it go right, and that way's left.
carl		Let go of the -- knock it off! Russell looks out the window in front of him.
russell		Hey look, buildings!
russell		That building's so close I could almost touch it.
russell		Wow! This is great! You should try this, Mr. Fredricksen! Look, there's a bus that could take me home two blocks away!  Hey, I can see your house from here!
carl		 Don't jerk around so much, kid!
cut to:		Carl stands beside Russell at the window.    Russell's fall had been a daydream.
carl		Well, that's not gonna work.
russell		I know that cloud, it's a Cumulo Nimbus. Did you know that the Cumulo Nimbus...
carl		Stayed up all night blowing up balloons, for what?
russell		...warm air goes by cool air, and the airs go by each other and that's how we get lightning.
carl		That's nice, kid.
russell		 Mr. Fredricksen, there's a big storm coming. It's starting to get scary. We're gonna get blown to bits! We're in big trouble, Mr. Fredricksen!
carl		What are you doing over there?
russell		Look!
russell		See?    Cumulo Nimbus.
russell		My pack!
russell		Got ya!
russell		Whew!    I thought you were dead.
carl		Wha... what happened?
russell		I steered us. I did!      I steered the house!
carl		Steered us?
russell		After you tied your stuff down you took a nap, so I went ahead and steered us down here.
carl		Huh?
carl		Can't tell where we are.
russell		Oh we're in South America all right. It was a cinch, with my Wilderness Explorer GPS.
carl		GP-what?
russell		My dad gave it to me. It shows exactly where we are on the planet. With this baby, we'll never be lost! Russell gestures, tossing the unit out the window.
russell		Oops.
carl		We'll get you down, find a bus stop. You just tell the man you want to go back to your mother.
russell		Sure, but I don't think they have busses in Paradise Falls.
carl		There. That ought to do it. Here, I'll give you some change for bus fare.
russell		Nah, I'll just use my city bus pass.
russell		Mr. Fredricksen, how much longer?
carl		Well, we're up pretty high.   Could take hours to get down. Something flashes by them in the fog.   Carl leans forward.
carl		  ...that thing was...building or something.
russell		What was that, Mr. Fredricksen?
carl		We can't be close to the ground yet.
carl		Wait, wait! No don't, don't, don't!
carl		Whoah!   Hey, hey! Russell JUMPS onto Carl's leg and the extra weight pulls them to the ground.
carl		Russell, hang on! Carl and Russell slide toward the edge of a CLIFF EDGE.
russell		Whoah! They slide toward the edge... and stop.   The drop is thousands of feet. Carl is TERRIFIED.
carl		Walk back!     Walk back!
russell		Okay!
carl		 Where... where are we?
russell		This doesn't look like the city or the jungle, Mr. Fredricksen. The wind picks up and they STRUGGLE against it.
carl		 Don't worry, Ellie. I got it. The wind clears the fog, slowly revealing a crescent shaped, flat-topped mountain on which they stand.
carl		There it is. Ellie, it's so beautiful.
carl		We made it. We made it! Russell, we could float right over there. Climb up. Climb up!
russell		You mean assist you?
carl		Yeah, yeah. Whatever.
russell		Okay, I'll climb up!
carl		Watch it.
russell		Sorry. The hose jiggles as Russell CLIMBS out of frame.
carl		Now, when you get up there, go ahead and hoist me up! Got it?!
carl		You on the porch yet?!
carl		What? That's it?! I came all this way just to get stuck at the wrong end of this rock pile? Aw, great!
russell		Hey, if I could assist you over there, would you sign off on my badge?
carl		What are you talking about?
russell		We could walk your house to the falls!
carl		Walk it?
russell		Yeah, after all, we weigh it down. We could walk it right over there. Like a parade balloon. Carl considers this.
carl		Now, we're gonna walk to the falls quickly and quietly, with no rap music or flash-dancing. Russell inspects his surroundings.
carl		We have three days, at best, before the helium leaks out of those balloons. And if we're not at the falls when that happens...
russell		Sand!
carl		...we're not getting to the falls!
russell		I found sand!
carl		Don't you worry, Ellie.    We'll get our house over there. Russell looks up at the house.   Who's Carl talking to?
russell		Huh.  This is fun already, isn't it? By the time we get there, you're gonna feel so assisted... Oh, Mr. Fredricksen, if we happen to get separated, use the Wilderness Explorer call. Caw caw, raaar!!
russell		Wait. Why are we going to Paradise Falls again?
carl		Hey, let's play a game. It's called: "See who can be quiet the longest."
russell		Cool!   My mom loves that game!
carl		Darn thing.  C'mon, Russell, would you hurry it up?
russell		I'm tiiiired. And my knee hurts.
carl		Which knee?
russell		My elbow hurts and I have to go to the bathroom.
carl		I asked you about that five minutes ago!
russell		Well, I didn't have to go then! Russell goes limp and lies face down in the dirt.
russell		I don't want to walk anymore.     Can we stop?
carl		Russell! If you don't hurry up, the tigers will eat you.
russell		There's no tigers in South America. Russell rolls over to show Carl a badge.
russell		Zoology.
carl		Oh, for the love of Pete. Go on into the bushes and do your business.
russell		Okay!   Here, hold my stuff.
russell		I've always wanted to try this!
carl		Eugh!   None of my concern! Beat.
russell		Huh?  Tracks?!   Snipe! Russell follows the tracks into the dark jungle, clapping.
russell		Here, snipe... Come on out, snipe. Snipe! The footprints continue for a time, then stop.
russell		Huh. Russell munches on a chocolate bar.
russell		Ha! Gotcha!
russell		Don't be afraid, little snipe. I am a Wilderness Explorer so I am a friend to all of nature. Want some more?
russell		Hi boy.    Don't eat it all.   Come on out.
russell		Come on. Don't be afraid little snipe. Nice snipe. Good little snipe. Nice... A massive shadowy creature rises up over Russell.
russell		...giant snipe!
russell		I found the snipe!
carl		 Oh, did you?
russell		Are they tall?
carl		Oh yes, they're very tall.
russell		Do they have a lot of colors?
carl		They do indeed.
russell		Do they like chocolate?
carl		Oh ye-   Chocolate?
carl		What is that thing?!
russell		It's a snipe!
carl		There's no such thing as a snipe!
russell		But you said snipes eat--
russell		Whoah! Russell GIGGLES.
carl		Go on, get out of here. Go on! Shoo!
russell		  Whoah! Whoah!
carl		Careful, Russell!
russell		  Hey, look Mr. Fredricksen, it likes me!
carl		Russell! The bird grooms Russell.
russell		  No stop, that tickles!
carl		Get out of here.    Go on, git!
carl		Aaaah!
russell		Uh-oh! No no no no no Kevin, it's okay. Mr. Fredricksen is nice!
carl		"Kevin"?
russell		Yeah, that's his name I just gave him.
carl		Hey. Beat it! Vamoose! Scram!
carl		Hey!   That's mine!
carl		Aaah!   Shoo, shoo! Get out of here.
carl		Go on, beat it.
russell		Can we keep him? Please?? I'll get the food for him, I'll walk him, I'll change his newspapers...
carl		No.
russell		  "An Explorer is a friend to all, be it plants or fish or tiny mole."
carl		That doesn't even rhyme.
russell		Yeah it does. Russell points up to the roof of Carl's house.
russell		Hey, look!     Kevin!
carl		What? Get down! You're not allowed up there!
carl		You come down here right now!
carl		Sheesh!   Can you believe this, Ellie?
russell		Ellie? 
44.		RUSSELL  She said for you to let me.
carl		 I told you no! N-O. The bird HISSES at Carl.
carl		I see you back there!
carl		Go on, get out of here. Shoo! Go annoy someone else for a while.  VOICE  Hey, are you okay over there? The bird dashes away.
carl		Uh, hello?
carl		Oh!   Hello sir!    Thank goodness.
carl		It's nice to know someone else is up here!
voice		I can smell you.
carl		What?    You can smell us?
voice		I can smell you.
carl		Hey.
russell		You were talking to a rock. Russell points to another rock shape.
russell		Hey, that one looks like a turtle!
russell		Look at that one!     That one looks like a dog! The "rock" walks forward.
russell		It is a dog!
carl		What?
russell		Uh, we're not allowed to have dogs in my apartment. The dog nuzzles Russell, who nervously pets it.
russell		Hey, I like dogs!
carl		 Wonder who he belongs to?
russell		Sit boy.
russell		Hey look, he's trained!    Shake!
russell		Uh-huh.    Speak.
dug		Hi there.
carl		Did that dog just say "Hi there?"
dug		Oh yes. Carl JUMPS back.
dug		My name is Dug. I have just met you and I love you.
carl		Uh..wha?
dug		My master made me this collar. He is a good and smart master and he made me this collar so that I may talk -- SQUIRREL!! Dug stares transfixed at a tree.    False alarm.
dug		My master is good and smart.
carl		It's not possible.
dug		Oh it is, because my master is smart.
russell		Cool! What do these do, boy?
dug		Hey would you-   -to talk with, I would be happy if you stopped.
carl		Russell, don't touch that. It could be radioactive or something. Dug sniffs the ground around Carl and Russell.
dug		I am a great tracker. My pack sent me on a special mission all by myself. Have you seen a bird? I want to find one and I have been on the scent. I am a great tracker, did I mention that? BAM!   The bird tackles Dug and HISSES.
dug		Hey, that is the bird! I have never seen one up close but this is the bird.  May I take your bird back to camp as my prisoner?
carl		Yes! Take it! And on the way, learn how to bark like a real dog!
dug		Oh I can bark! Dug BARKS.
dug		And here's howling! Dug HOWLS.    The bird HISSES at Dug.
russell		Can we keep him? Please please please?
carl		No.
russell		But it's a talking dog!
carl		It's just a weird trick or something. Let's get to the falls.
dug		Please be my prisoner. Oh please oh please be my prisoner.
gamma		Oh, here it is.    I picked up the bird's scent!
beta		Wait a minute, wait a minute! What is this? Chocolate. I smell chocolate.
gamma		I'm getting prunes and denture cream! Who are they?
beta		Ah man, Master will not be pleased. We'd better tell him someone took the bird, right Alpha? ALPHA, a Doberman pinscher, sits with his back to them.
alpha		 No. Soon enough the bird will be ours yet again.
beta		Hey Alpha, I think there's something wrong with your collar. You must have bumped it.
gamma		Yeah, your voice sounds funny! Beta and Gamma LAUGH.   Alpha turns.   They stop laughing.
alpha		Beta. Gamma. Mayhaps you desire to -- SQUIRREL!
beta		No no. But maybe Dug would.     You might want to ask him.
gamma		Yeah, I wonder if he's found the bird on his very special mission.
alpha		Do not mention Dug to me at this time. His fool's errand will keep him most occupied, most occupied indeed. Ha ha ha. Do you not agree with that which I am saying to you now?
beta		Sure, but the second Master finds out you sent Dug out by himself, none of us will get a treat.
alpha		You are wise, my trusted Lieutenant.
dug		Hi Alpha.    Hey, your voice sounds funny.
alpha		I know, I know!   Have you seen the bird?
dug		Why yes, the bird is my prisoner now.
gamma		Yeah, right.
alpha		Impossible! Where are you?!
dug		I am here with the bird and I will bring it back and then you will like me. Oh, gotta go. On the collar screen, the dogs get a fleeting glimpse of a boy's face. It's Russell.
russell		 Hey Dug! Who you talking to?
beta		What's Dug doing?
gamma		Why's he with that small mailman?
beta		Where are they?
alpha		There he is. Come on!
dug		Oh please oh please oh PLEASE be my prisoner!
russell		Dug, stop bothering Kevin!
dug		That man there says I can take the bird and I love that man there like he is my master.
carl		I am not your master!
dug		I am warning you, once again, bird!
russell		Hey!     Quit it!
dug		I am jumping on you now, bird.
carl		Russell! At this rate we'll never get to the falls!
carl		I am nobody's master, got it?  I'm stuck with you. And if you two don't clear out of here by the time I count to three- Dug sees the tennis balls on Carl's cane.
dug		A ball!   Oh boy oh boy!     A ball!
carl		Ball? Carl pops off one of the tennis balls.
carl		You want it boy?     Huh?   Huh?   Yeah?
dug		Oh oh oh! Yes, I do.        I do ever so want the ball!
carl		Go get it!! Carl throws the ball far away.    Dug chases after it.
dug		Oh boy, oh boy! I will get it and then bring it back!
carl		  Quick Russell, give me some chocolate.
russell		Why?
carl		Just give it to me! Carl grabs some chocolate and waves it at the bird.
carl		Bird.   Bird! Carl THROWS the chocolate.     The bird runs after it.
carl		C'mon Russell!
russell		Wait.   Wait, Mr. Fredricksen.
carl		Daah!
carl		Aaahh...
russell		What are we doing?
russell		Hey, uh, we're pretty far now. Kevin's gonna miss me.
carl		I think that did the trick.
dug		Hi, Master.
carl		Afternoon. Carl turns the other way.       The bird.   It HONKS at him.
carl		Well, thanks for keeping us dry anyway, Ellie.  RUSSELL  Which one's the front?
russell		Is this step three, or step five? Carl ROLLS HIS EYES at Russell's ineptness.
russell		There! Russell struggles with a tent pole, trying to winch it into place.
russell		All done. Russell turns, revealing a large RED WELT on his face.
russell		 That's for you!
russell		Awh.   Tents are hard.
carl		Wait, aren't you "Super Wilderness Guy?" With the GPM's and the badges?
russell		Yeah, but... can I tell you a secret?
carl		No.
russell		Alright, here goes. I never actually built a tent before. There. I said it.
carl		You've been camping before, haven't you?
russell		Well, never outside.
carl		Well, why didn't you ask your Dad how to build a tent?
russell		I don't think he wants to talk about this stuff.
carl		Why don't you try him sometime? Maybe he'll surprise you.
russell		Well, he's away a lot.   I don't see him much.
carl		He's got to be home sometime.
russell		Well, I called, but Phyllis told me I bug him too much.
carl		Phyllis? You call your own mother by her first name?
russell		Phyllis isn't my mom. Carl realizes he put his foot in it.
carl		Oh.
russell		But he promised he'd come to my Explorer ceremony to pin on my Assisting the Elderly badge, so he can show me about tents then, right?
carl		Hey, uh, why don't you get some sleep. Don't want to wake up the traveling flea circus.
russell		Mr. Fredricksen, Dug says he wants to take Kevin prisoner. We have to protect him!
russell		Can Kevin go with us?
carl		Alright.   He can come.
russell		Promise you won't leave him?
carl		Yeah.
russell		Cross your heart?
carl		Cross my heart.
carl		What have I got myself into, Ellie?
carl		Morning Sweetheart.
carl		We better get moving.
carl		Huh. Bird's gone. Maybe Russell won't notice.  Alright, everybody up!
russell		Where's Kevin? He's wandered off! Kevin! Dug, find Kevin!
dug		Find the bird.    Find the bird...
russell		Oh, look! There he is.
dug		 POINT! The bird has gathered a pile of food on Carl's roof.
carl		Hey, that's my food!   Get off my roof!
dug		Yeah, get off of his <>!
carl		What is it doing?
dug		The bird is calling to her babies.
russell		Her babies! Kevin's a girl? The bird gobbles the food and jumps off the roof.
dug		Her house is over there in those twisty rocks. Miles off is a huge grouping of rocks; the LABYRINTH.   The baby birds call from somewhere inside.
dug		She has been gathering food for her babies and must get back to them.
russell		Wait, Kevin's just leaving? But you promised to protect her!
russell		Her babies need her, we gotta make sure they're together.
carl		Sorry Russell. We've lost enough time already.
russell		Yeah...
russell		This was her favorite chocolate. Because you sent her away, there's more for you. Carl rolls his eyes and SIGHS.
carl		Huh?
russell		Kevin?
alpha		 Where's the bird? You said you had the bird.
dug		Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Since I have said that, I can see how you would think that.
alpha		Where is it?
dug		Uh, tomorrow. Come back tomorrow and then I will again have the bird. Yes.
alpha		You lost it. Why do I not have a surprised feeling? Well, at least you now have lead us to the small mailman and The One Who Smells of Prunes.
alpha		Master will be most pleased we have found them, and will ask of them many questions.  Come!
carl		Wait, we're not going with you. We're going to the falls! Gamma and Beta BARK fiercely at Carl.
carl		Get away from me! Get down!
voice		You came here in that?
carl		Uh... yeah.
voice		In a house? A floating house? The man laughs.   Carl and Russell laugh along nervously.
voice		That is the darndest thing I've ever seen! You're not after my bird, are you? But if you need to borrow a cup of sugar, I'd be happy to oblige! The dogs LAUGH uproariously at the man's joke.
voice		Well, this is all a misunderstanding. My dogs made a mistake.
carl		Wait, are you Charles Muntz?!
muntz		Well... Yes.
carl		The Charles Muntz?
muntz		"Adventure is out there!"
carl		It's really him!  That's Charles Muntz!
carl		Him!
dog walla		Yes!    It is him! He is!
carl		I'm Carl Fredricksen. My wife and I, we were your biggest fans!
muntz		Well, you're a man of good taste!
muntz		You must be tired.     Hungry?
russell		Uh-huh.
muntz		 Attention everyone! These people are no longer intruders. They are our guests.
dog walla		Follow me! I like you temporarily. You do smell like prunes. I will not bite you.
carl		Wow.
muntz		Go ahead and moor your airship right next to mine.
carl		We're not actually going inside the "Spirit of Adventure" itself?!
muntz		Oh.    Would you like to?
carl		Would I?!?!
carl		Wait up, Mr. Muntz!
carl		Jiminy Cricket.
beta		Not you.
gamma		What do we do with Dug?
alpha		He has lost the bird.     Put him in the Cone of Shame.
dug		I do not like the Cone of Shame.
muntz		Most of the collection is housed in the world's top museums: New York, Munich, London... `Course I kept the best for myself.
carl		Did you ever! Will you look at that?
muntz		Oh yes, the Arsinoitherium. Beast charged while I was brushing my teeth. Used my shaving kit to bring him down. A dog approaches carrying a menu.    Muntz waves it off.
muntz		Oh, surprise me.  Only way to get it out of Ethiopia at the time was to have it declared as "dental equipment!" Muntz LAUGHS.   Behind him, a dog can't resist gnawing at one of the bones.
carl		Oh my gosh, the Giant Somalian Leopard Tortoise!
muntz		Oh, you recognize it? I'm impressed! That's an interesting story there...
muntz		Hm, excellent choice.  I found it on safari with Roosevelt. Two dogs work together to remove the cork from the bottle. POP! They sloppily pour two glasses.
muntz		He and I fell into a habit of playing gin rummy in the evenings. And did he cheat? Oh, he was horrible!
alpha		 Master, dinner is ready.
muntz		Oh dear, broken translator.   It's that loose wire again.  There you go big fella.
alpha		 Thank you Master. Russell reacts.
russell		I liked his other voice. Muntz LAUGHS.
muntz		Well, dinner is served!    Right this way.
muntz		So how are things stateside? Almost tempted to go back a few times, but I have unfinished work here... Please. Dogs pull back chairs for them.   They sit.   Dog waiters place napkins on their laps.
muntz		I hope you're hungry because Epsilon is the finest chef I've ever had. Dogs bring out covered plates, look at each other, and remove the silver plate covers at the same time. The meals look delicious.
muntz		Oh, Epsilon, you've done it again!
russell		Yes!! Russell is served a hot dog.   His waiter can't resist and eats a bite.
russell		Hey!
russell		Hey!
carl		Oh my Ellie would have loved all this. You know, it's because of you she had this dream to come down here and live by Paradise Falls.
muntz		I'm honored. And now you've made it!
carl		You're sure we're not a bother? I'd hate to impose.
muntz		No no! It's a pleasure to have guests -- a real treat.
dog walla		Treat?!   Treat! I want a treat!
muntz		No no, quiet! Calm down.     Calm down... In the excitement a dog swipes the rest of Russell's hot dog.
russell		Hey!
carl		No!
muntz		They called me a fraud, those... dah! But once I bring back this creature, my name will be cleared. The lantern illuminates photographs, drawings, samples, feathers. Hundreds of them... all of THE BIRD. Kevin.
muntz		Beautiful, isn't it? I've spent a lifetime tracking it. Sometimes years go by between sightings...
68.		MUNTZ  I've tried to smoke it out of that deathly labyrinth where it lives... Can't go in after it. Once in, there's no way out. Lost so many dogs... Muntz is lost in reverie.
muntz		And here they come, these bandits, and think the bird is theirs to take! But they soon find that this mountain is a very dangerous place.
russell		Hey, that looks like Kevin!
muntz		"Kevin?"
russell		Yeah! That's my new giant bird pet. I trained it to follow us.
muntz		Follow you? Impossible.      How?
russell		She likes chocolate.
muntz		Chocolate?
russell		Yeah, I gave her some of my chocolate. She goes ga-ga for it.
carl		But it ran off!      It's gone now.
muntz		You know, Carl. These people who pass through here, they all tell pretty good stories. A "Surveyor" making a map. Using his cane, Muntz topples a helmet from the table.   It rolls across the floor.
muntz		A "Botanist" cataloguing plants.
muntz		An old man taking his house to Paradise Falls.
muntz		That's the best one yet. I can't wait to hear how it ends. Carl glances around nervously.
carl		Well! It's been a wonderful evening, but we'd better be going.
muntz		Oh, you're not leaving?
carl		We don't want to take advantage of your hospitality. Come on Russell.
russell		But we haven't even had dessert yet.
muntz		No, the boy's right. You haven't had dessert. Epsilon here makes a delicious Cherries Jubilee.
muntz		Oh, you really must stay. I insist! We have so much more to talk about!
russell		Kevin? Muntz walks to the window and looks out.          Atop the roof he sees THE BIRD.
muntz		It's here. He turns back to Carl... but they're gone.
muntz		 Get them!
carl		Hurry!
russell		I am hurrying!
russell		They're coming!
dug		Go toward the light, master! Dogs climb down the rocks, closing in on Carl and Russell.
carl		Russell!
carl		Get back!! Alpha is about to bite when an avalanche of boulders rains down! The dogs stop short.
dug		Go on Master!       I will stop the dogs! Dug jumps down to block the path of the approaching dogs.
dug		Stop you dogs!!
russell		Help! Help!
carl		Gimme your hand! Carl holds out his cane so that Russell can GRAB it and Carl PULLS him back onto the bird. Meanwhile Dug manages to rejoin his friends, but just in time to reach the end of the line -- A CLIFF EDGE.   A river winds 100 feet below.
russell		Hang on to Kevin!
russell		No no no! Kevin! Stay down.  She's hurt real bad. Can't we help her get home?
carl		Alright.   But we've got to hurry.
muntz		You lost them?
beta		Uh, it was Dug.
gamma		Yeah, he's with them.    He helped them escape!
muntz		Wait.   Wait a minute.   Dug...
carl		See anything?
dug		No, my pack is not following us! Boy they are dumb. Dug scampers back to Carl and Russell, who pull the house from behind a tree canopy.
carl		This is crazy. I finally meet my childhood hero and he's trying to kill us! What a joke.
dug		Hey, I know a joke. A squirrel walks up to a tree and says I forgot to store acorns for winter and now I am dead. Ha! It is funny because the squirrel gets dead. They pull the house, keeping it hidden behind the trees.
carl		Careful Russell. The house bumps into a tree, jostling the injured BIRD on the porch.
russell		You okay, Kevin? Kevin goes back to sleep.    Russell looks at her BANDAGED LEG.
russell		You know what, Mr. Fredricksen? The wilderness isn't quite what I expected.
carl		Yeah?   How so?
russell		It's kinda... wild. I mean, it's not how they made it sound in my book.
carl		Hmm, get used to that, kid.
russell		My dad made it sound so easy. He's really good at camping, and how to make fire from rocks and stuff. He used to come to all my Sweatlodge meetings.
russell		And afterwards we'd go get ice cream at Fentons. I always get chocolate and he gets butter- brickle. Then we'd sit on this one curb, right outside, and I'll count all the blue cars and he counts all the red ones, and whoever gets the most, wins. I like that curb. He looks up at Carl.
russell		That might sound boring, but I think the boring stuff is the stuff I remember the most. They walk in silence.   Carl understands.
russell		Look, there it is!
carl		Hold on Russell, stand still!
carl		Look at that bird go!
carl		Wait up, you overgrown chicken!
russell		That's it, go Kevin!      Go find your babies!
russell		Run Kevin! Run!
russell		Oh no!
carl		Russell, give me your knife!
carl		No!
russell		No! Carl pulls his house away from the flames.
muntz		Careful. We want her in good shape for my return.
russell		Let her go! Stop!
russell		Kevin! Carl beats out the flames with his jacket.     He extinguishes the flames.
russell		You gave away Kevin.   You just gave her away.
carl		This is none of my concern.      I didn't ask for any of this!
dug		Master.   It's alright.
carl		I am not your master! And if you hadn't a shown up, none of this would have happened! Bad dog! Bad dog!
carl		Now, whether you assist me or not, I am going to Paradise Falls if it kills me.
russell		I don't want this anymore. Russell walks away.   He sits on a rock, alone.
carl		Russell?
carl		Russell!
russell		I'm gonna help Kevin even if you won't!
carl		No, Russell! No! Carl runs back to his house and tries in desperation to lift it. He struggles, but the house doesn't budge. The balloons have lost too much helium.
cut to:		The GRAMOPHONE smashes onto the rocky ground. Chairs, dressers, tables; Carl throws them all out of the house.
carl		Wahhoo!
carl		Russell?
carl		Dug!
dug		I was hiding under your porch because I love you. Can I stay?
carl		Can you stay? Well, you're my dog aren't you? And I'm your master!
dug		You are my master?! Dug lunges forward and overwhelms Carl with dog kisses.
dug		Oh boy.     Oh boy!
russell		Ooph!
russell		Yes!    Don't worry Kevin! I'll save - Growling dogs move toward him.
muntz		And they wouldn't believe me. Just wait till they get a look at you.
alpha		Master! The small mailman has returned.
muntz		What?
russell		Let me go!
muntz		Where's your elderly friend?
russell		He's not my friend anymore.
muntz		Well, if you're here, Fredricksen can't be far behind.
russell		Where are you keeping Kevin!?
russell		Let me go!
beta		Scream all you want, small mailman.
gamma		None of your mailman friends can hear you.
russell		I'll unleash all my Wilderness Explorer training!
muntz		Alpha! Fredricksen's coming back. Guard that bird. If you see the old man, you know what to do.
russell		Hey, where are you going?    I'm not finished with you!
muntz		Nice talking with you.
muntz		Where are you, Fredricksen?
carl		Russell! Carl steers his house to the dirigible.
russell		Mr. Fredricksen!
carl		Dug!   Bring `er over! Dug winches in the hose caddy, pulling the house closer to the dirigible ramp.
russell		You came back for Kevin!     Let's go get her.
carl		I'm getting Kevin.    You stay here!
russell		But I want to help!
carl		I don't want your help.     I want you safe! Carl leaps back into the dirigible.    Dug follows.
carl		How do we get past these dogs?
dug		Uh... POINT! Dug points to a grate in the wall.
carl		Kevin!
carl		Don't worry Kevin, we're on our way! Alpha enters, leading a group of dogs. Carl and Dug duck into the shadows and watch unnoticed from above.
alpha		Allow no one to be entering through these doors. Guard well that bird, my minions.
carl		  What do we do now, Dug?
carl		Who wants the ball?
dogs		Me! I do! I want the ball!
carl		Then go get it! Carl throws the ball.    The dogs scramble after it.
dogs		I'm gonna get there first! Oh gonna get the ball! I'm gonna get it!
gamma		I got it!!
gamma		Uh-oh.
carl		I'm sorry Kevin.      Let's get you out of here.
dog walla		 Master! He's gone! The old man! He's here! He's got the bird! The bird's gone!
muntz		What?    Calm down!   One at a time!
russell		I want to help! He manages to get his arms free.
russell		Ha ha!
dog walla		He's in Hall D! He's in Hall B! It's the old man!
muntz		Does anyone know where they are?!?!
russell		Whoooaaah!
muntz		 Grey leader! Take down the house!
beta		 Grey leader, checking in.
gamma		Grey 2, checking in.
omega		Grey 3, checking in. The planes fall into formation and fly toward the house.
beta		Target sighted. The Dog Squadron Leader bites down on a squeaky bone chew toy that fires poison darts.
carl		Come on, Kevin.
dug		Hi.
muntz		Any last words, Fredricksen?   Come on, spit it out! Carl spits his FALSE TEETH at Muntz.    He falls backwards.
carl		Come on!
muntz		Enough! I'm taking that bird back with me alive or dead! Carl trips and falls to the floor.     Muntz is about to deal the final blow.
carl		Come on, Kevin!
alpha		I will have many enjoyments for what I am about to do, Dug.
misc dog		He wears the Cone of Shame!
alpha		 What? Do not just continue sitting! Attack!
alpha		 No! No! Stop your laughing! Get this off of me!
dug		Listen you dog!     Sit! Surprised at Dug's moxy, Alpha sits.    All other dogs sit too.
dog walla		Yes, Alpha.
dug		Alpha? I am not Alpha, he is-   Oohhhh!
russell		 I can't do it!
carl		 Russell!
russell		Huh?
russell		You leave Mr. Fredricksen alone!
russell		Hey!  Squirrel!
gamma		Squirrel?
omega		Where's the squirrel?!
gamma		I hate squirrels.
carl		Dug! Dug jumps up on Carl, licking his face.
dug		Master! The house bears down on them.    They run to meet it.
carl		Russell!! Over here!!    Let's go!
russell		Mr. Fredricksen!
carl		Come on, Kevin! Carl helps Dug onto the porch.   He climbs up himself...
carl		No!
carl		Russell!   Get out of there! Russell, Dug and Kevin run toward the front porch.
carl		No!    Leave them alone!
carl		Russell! Hang on to Kevin! Don't let go of her!
carl		Kevin!   Chocolate!
russell		That was cool! Russell and Dug dangle from it, sitting on Kevin.     The bird holds on to the hose with her beak. Carl LAUGHS, relieved.
carl		Don't jerk around so much, kid! Russell climbs up, followed by the bird and Dug.
dug		Oh I am ready to not be up high. Carl LAUGHS heartily as Dug jumps on him and licks his face. Carl looks into the distance. His house, now empty, floats softly down into the clouds, and disappears.
russell		Sorry about your house, Mr. Fredricksen.
carl		You know, it's just a house. Carl, Russell, Dug and Kevin stand on the tail of the airship floating off over the clouds.
carl		Ow! Ow! Ow!
russell		Look at you. You're so soft.
russell		I wish I could keep one.
carl		Huh, where's my cane?      I just had it here... Kevin starts HACKING.    She COUGHS up the cane.
carl		You know what? Keep `em.       A little gift from me to you. The bird family enters the labyrinth.     Carl and Russell wave.
russell		Bye Kevin! The bird looks back toward Carl and Russell and CALLS OUT one last time before disappearing into the mist.
russell		Ready? Carl gives a thumbs up.
carl		Ready!
carl		 I'm here for him.  CAMP MASTER STRAUCH Congratulations, Russell. Sir...
carl		Russell, for assisting the elderly, and for performing above and beyond the call of duty, I would like to award you the highest honor I can bestow: The Ellie Badge.
russell		Wow.
russell		Blue one.
carl		Red one.
dug		Grey one.
carl		Red one.
russell		That's a bike!
carl		It's red, isn't it?
russell		Mr. Fredricksen, you're cheating.
carl		No, I'm not. Red one.
russell		That's a fire hydrant.
carl		Maybe I need new glasses.
****Dialogues from script :Up_in_the_Air.txt****

ryan		How much does your life weigh?
ryan		Excuse me?
ryan		Oh... No. Um, no thank you.
steve		Who the fuck are you?
steve		What did I... do? What could I have done differently here?
ryan		This is not an assessment of your productivity. It's important not to personalize this.
steve		 Oh, I'm sure it's going be really helpful.
steve		Right...
ryan		Take the day. Put together your personal things. Talk to your co- workers. Tomorrow, go out and get some exercise. Go for a jog. Give yourself routines and pretty soon you'll find your legs.
steve		Wait, how do I get in touch with you?
ryan		Don't worry. We'll be in touch soon. This is just the beginning.
checkout girl		Do you have your Hilton Honors Card with you?
checkout girl		Oh my God... Do you like, live, at the Hilton?
airport clerk		Pleasure to see you again, Mr. Bingham.
airport clerk		Pleasure to see you again, Mr. Bingham.
kevin		Ryan Bingham's office.
ryan		You have me in a Dodge Stratus in Kansas City.
kevin		They are completely out of all full sized sedans...
ryan		 Did you?...
kevin		 Yes, I reminded them of your remarkable #1 Gold Club status and years in the program. They are moving mountains to see you in a Sebring.
ryan		Fair enough. Any other messages?
kevin		Your sister Kara called. Needs to speak urgently about your sister's wedding. I told her you were midair and not even I knew your final destination.
ryan		Well done.
kevin		And you got an invitation to speak at GoalQuest in Vegas.
ryan		GoalQuest twenty?
kevin		It's got a hologram. They're calling it Dos Equis. That's some pretty major Tony Robbins shit there.
ryan		Talk about burying the lead.  I'll check in when...
kevin		Hold on, I have Craig Gregory for you...
ryan		I... ah, fuck...
craig gregory		How's the road warrior?
ryan		Twenty minutes from boarding into a world of bliss.
craig gregory		Great numbers out of Phoenix. You know Big Auto is going to drop another 10K this month.
ryan		No kidding?
craig gregory		Yeah, Christmas came early. Wish I could have you in five places at once. I need you back in Omaha by the end of the week.
ryan		I thought you needed me everywhere.
ryan		I don't know why you ever bring me in. Wherever I go, the money follows. Let me plant seeds, they'll grow to Oaks.
craig gregory		I'm thinking of planting seeds right now.
ryan		What are we talking about here?
craig gregory		You'll see.  Today, I took my first crap in two weeks. Hallelujah.
ryan		That's me, hanging up on you.
craig gregory		Good. I love that sound.
ryan		 Hello?
ryan		Hey Kara.
kara		How are you holding up?
ryan		Just fine. You? The kids?
kara		 Missy's outstanding. Matthew made varsity. How's the road?
ryan		Couldn't be better.
kara		That's good. So, Ryan?
ryan		 Yeah?
kara		I didn't even want to have to ask you for this, because I know how you are about... doing things for others...
ryan		Yeah.
kara		We've been sending people these kits so they can print out photos of Julie and Jim on cardboard, and take photos of them in interesting places kind of like that gnome in the French movie.
ryan		Why?
kara		 Because it's Julie's wedding... and she thinks it's fun. Does it matter why?
ryan		How is Julie?
kara		Would you call her? She thinks you've turned to butter - Disappeared. You're awfully isolated, the way you live.
ryan		Isolated? I'm surrounded.
kara		Your assistant told me you're going to be in Vegas.
ryan		Did he?
kara		Can you get a photo of the cut-out in front of the Luxor Pyramid?
ryan		That place is a shit hole. No one stays there.
kara		Jesus, Ryan, I'm not asking you to check in. Can you just take a stupid photo?
ryan		I'm going to try my best.
kara		Well, thank you for trying your best.
ryan		You're satisfied with Maestro?
alex		Yeah, I am.
ryan		They're stingy with their miles. I like Hertz.
alex		Hertz keeps its vehicles too long. If a car's over twenty-thousand miles, I won't drive it.
ryan		Maestro doesn't instant check out. I like to park and go.
alex		Hertz doesn't guarantee Navigation.
ryan		Funny, you don't seem like a girl who needs directions.
alex		I hate asking for directions. That's why I get a Nav.
ryan		The new outfit, Colonial, isn't bad.
alex		Is that a joke?
ryan		Yes.
alex		Their kiosk placement is a joke.
ryan		Never have available upgrades.
alex		 It's basically a fleet of shit boxes - Don't know how they're still in business.
ryan		 I'm Ryan.
alex		Alex.
ryan		So are you going to join me?
ryan		 Maplewood Card? How dare you bring that into this palace.
alex		Hilton offers equal value and better food - But the Maplewood gives out warm cookies at check in.
ryan		They got you with the cookies?
alex		I'm a sucker for simulated hospitality.
ryan		There's actually an industry term for that. It's a mixture of faux and homey. It's faumey.
alex		Oh my God. I've heard about these, but never seen one in person. Is this a...?
ryan		Concierge Key. Yeah.
alex		I love the weight.
ryan		Graphite. I was pretty excited the day that puppy came in.
alex		I'll say. I put up pretty pedestrian numbers. Sixty thou a year, domestic.
ryan		 That's not bad.
alex		Don't patronize me. What's your total?
ryan		That's a personal question.
alex		Oh please...
ryan		 I hardly know you.
alex		Show some hubris. Impress me.  I bet it's huge.
ryan		You have no idea.
alex		Come on...  ... this big?
ryan		Let's just say I've got a number in mind and I haven't hit it yet.
alex		This is pretty fucking sexy.
ryan		I hope it doesn't cheapen our relationship.
alex		We're two people who get turned on by elite status. We may have to settle for cheap.
ryan		There's nothing cheap about loyalty.
ryan		I really have to start throwing these out.
alex		We can always use that room with the ice machine.
ryan		Good call on the towel rack.
alex		Thanks. I liked how you burritoed me in the sofa cushions.
ryan		I was improvising.
alex		Too bad we didn't make it to the closet.
ryan		We got to do this again.
ryan		I'm in Newark on the 12th, Madesto on the 13th, Oklahoma City on the 15th.
alex		Any Southwest? I'm swinging through Albuquerque the week of the 16th?
ryan		No, but I'll be in Florida by the 20th.
alex		Miami?
ryan		Ft. Lauderdale.
alex		That's nothing.
ryan		Forty minutes.
alex		I should probably go back to my room so I can wake up in my bed.
ryan		I think that's the lady like thing to do.
nosey neighbor		Ryan?
ryan		 Hi...
nosey neighbor		Feels like it's been months, busy man. We missed you at our Summer party.
ryan		Yeah, sorry I couldn't be there.
nosey neighbor		We've been trying to get a vote on the new landscaping. Can I e-mail you the plans...? We'd love to get a final tally.
ryan		It's fine. Really. I'll go with the majority.
nosey neighbor		Sometimes I forget that you even live here. You could probably save money and move into a hotel.
ryan		 I looked into it, but the IRS requires a permanent address for employment. Otherwise, they classify you as a vagrant.
nosey neighbor		Oh.
woman's voice		Hey neighbor.
ryan		Hey yourself.
dianne		 I signed for this while you were gone.
ryan		Thanks. Hope it wasn't a bother.
dianne		 They seem happy.
ryan		It's my sister. She's getting married. Haven't met the guy yet.
dianne		Lots of luck.
ryan		I know, right?
dianne		It's good to see you. Feels like a while this time.
ryan		Hey, you want to come over tonight?
dianne		Actually, I kind of started seeing somebody.
ryan		Oh, that's... that's great.
dianne		Yeah, we're having drinks tonight if you want to come over.
ryan		That's okay... I' think I'll settle in.
craig gregory		Just thrilled to have everyone under one roof. Welcome home boys.
natalie		If there's one word I want to leave you with today, it's this...
ned		 I don't understand. I'm fired?
natalie		Hearing the words "You've been let go" is never easy. Change is always scary. But consider the following -  Anybody who ever built an empire, or changed the world, sat where you are now. And it's because they sat there that they were able to do it.
ryan		 That's my fucking line.
ned		Well, what happens now?
natalie		This is the first step of a process that will end with you in a new job that fulfills you.
ned		Yeah, but, how does it work?
natalie		I want you to take that packet in front of you.
ned		I understand.
natalie		Have a good day, Mr. Laskin and good luck with your future.
ned		Thank you.
natalie		Give it up for Ned.
ryan		Tell me you're not taking this seriously.
craig gregory		Yeah, that's why we brought the entire company in from the road - Because we're not taking this seriously.
ryan		It doesn't make any sense. It's...  ... completely impersonal.
craig gregory		Who am I even talking to?
ryan		There's a methodology to what I do. A reason why it works.
craig gregory		Ryan, Coke and IBM have been doing it for years. Just like anything, there's a few months of transition, but everyone settles in.
ryan		Who are you taking off the road?
craig gregory		You don't get it. You're grounded, Ryan. Everyone is. It's done.
ryan		Okay, what we do here is brutal and leaves people devastated, but there's a dignity to the way I do it.
craig gregory		Stabbing people in the chest instead of the back?
natalie		You wanted to see me?
ryan		Yeah, why don't you come in.
craig gregory		Great job in there, Nat.
natalie		Thank you. How's everyone taking it?
ryan		 Look, I appreciate your... zeal. And you have some good ideas. But you know nothing of the realities of my job. Sure, you can set up an iChat... but you don't know how people think.
natalie		Actually, I minored in psychology.
craig gregory		Nice.
ryan		 Okay kiddo, fire me.
craig gregory		Ryan, stop it.
ryan		She's going to be doing this on a regular basis. You don't want to know if she can fire somebody?
craig gregory		She just fired Ned.
ryan		My dog could fire Ned.  Fire me.
craig gregory		Ryan.
natalie		It's okay, I got this.
ryan		Who the hell are you?
natalie		My name is Miss Keener and I'm here today to discuss your future.
ryan		My future? I don't know you. The only person who can fire me is Craig Gregory.
natalie		Mr. Gregory hired me to handle this for him.
ryan		Handle what? Handle me? Mr. Gregory hired me and he's the only one who can fire me. I'm going to talk to him.
natalie		Mr. Bingham...
ryan		You can't follow me... You're on a computer screen. Remember?
natalie		 Ryan...
ryan		Try again. Fire me.
natalie		I just did.
ryan		Actually, you didn't. Now, fire me.
craig gregory		Stop it, Ryan.
natalie		 Mr. Bingham, I'm here today to inform you that your position is no longer available.
ryan		I'm fired?
natalie		Yes, you're fired.
ryan		 Never say fired.
natalie		You've been let go.
ryan		Why?
natalie		 This is a mythical situation. How could I possibly know why?
ryan		You never know why. Why doesn't matter.
natalie		 It's important not to focus on the "why" and rather to spend your energy thinking about your future.
ryan		I'm going to spend my energy on suing you if you don't give me a reason that you're firing me.
natalie		Mr. Bingham, the reason is not important.
ryan		Oh, so you're firing me without grounds.  Now, I really have a lawsuit.
craig gregory		Ryan, I think we know what you're trying to say...
natalie		 Don't take this personally, Mr. Bingham.
ryan		Personally?  This is the most personal situation you will ever enter. So before you try to revolutionize my business, I'd like to know that you actually know my business.
craig gregory		Hell-of-a-way to welcome her to the team.
ryan		Am I the only one who sees that by automating our own business, we're making ourselves irrelevant.
craig gregory		 No... We're making you irrelevant.
ryan		I'm not... I'm not a dinosaur.
craig gregory		I want you to show her the ropes.
ryan		What do I know about what happens around here? Have Ferguson do it.
craig gregory		I'm not talking about here.
ryan		No.
craig gregory		Hey, you seem pretty confident that this girl doesn't know what she's doing...
ryan		Excuse me. I just don't think a MySpace page qualifies you to rewire an entire company.
craig gregory		Great. Well, here's your chance. Show her the magic. Take her through the paces.
ryan		I'm not a fucking tour guide.
craig gregory		 This is the boat.
ryan		Yes. Alone.
craig gregory		Ryan, we're ringing the bell. Rounding everybody up. If you want to stay out there a little longer, you can. But you're not going to be on your own.  Let me know.
ryan		Huh.
natalie		What?
natalie		I really like my luggage.
ryan		That's exactly what it is. Luggage.  You know how much time you lose by checking in?
natalie		I don't know, maybe five minutes waiting for...
ryan		Thirty five minutes per flight. I travel two hundred seventy days a year. That makes one hundred fifty seven hours... That's Seven Days.  You ready to throw away a whole week on that?
ryan		Bingo. Asians.
natalie		You can't be serious.
ryan		Never get behind people travelling with infants. I've never seen a stroller collapse in less than twenty minutes.
natalie		That's racist.
ryan		I'm like my mother. I stereotype. It's faster.
ryan		Are you upset at your laptop?
natalie		No. Why?
ryan		Fats Domino had a lighter touch.
natalie		I type with purpose.
ryan		What are you working on so furiously?
natalie		I'm building a work flow of firing techniques. Questions & responses. Actions & reactions. A script that works kind of like a tributary, taking you through the steps of firing someone.
ryan		Who is it for?
natalie		Theoretically, you could put it in the hands of anybody and they could be downsizing immediately. All they have to do is follow the steps.
ryan		Natalie, what is it, you think we do here?
natalie		We prepare the newly unemployed for the emotional and physical hurdles of job hunting while... Minimizing potential legal blowback?
ryan		That's what we're selling. But it's not what we're doing.
natalie		Okay, what are we doing?
ryan		Our job is to make limbo tolerable - To ferry wounded souls across the river of dread and humiliation to the point at which hope's bright shore is dimly visible...  And then to stop the boat, shove'em in the water, and make them swim while we row back to the palace of their banishment to present the employers with our bills.
natalie		That was really impressive. You rehearse that?
ryan		 I got to grab this. I'll meet you at the rental lot.
ryan		Hey, I was hoping I'd hear from you.
alex		I'm in Hotlanta. I need a rib joint recommend bad.
ryan		 Fat Matt's. Bring a bib.
alex		You haven't called.
ryan		You know, I didn't know what was appropriate...
alex		Ryan, I'm not some waitress you banged in a snow storm. The word "Appropriate" has no place in our collective vocabulary. I'm the woman you don't have to worry about.
ryan		This sounds like a trick.
alex		Next time you're worried about manners - Don't. If you want to call - Call. Just think of me as yourself... only with a vagina.
ryan		When am I going to see you?
alex		I'm out of Hartsfield, into IAD, then a connection at ORD into SDF.
ryan		 Oh... sorry.
alex		Tell me about it.
ryan		How long is your layover in O'Hare? They've got multiples into SDF... Think you could push?
alex		 I can push.
ryan		 Ryan Bingham, from CTC.
ryan		All you have to do today is watch and listen. When I talk about the strategy packet. You hand them one of these...
natalie		You ever find it strange that termination comes with a packet.
ryan		Everything important in life comes with a packet.
ryan		Thank you for coming by. As you're probably well aware, this is a tough economic climate and your company is not immune.
ryan		While I wish I was here with better news, the reason you and I are meeting is this is your final week of employment here.
ryan		This is not a time to look for blame. Your position simply no longer exists.
ryan		I understand why you are saying these things. 
ryan		Fill out the skill set work sheet... Use the hopes and dreams diagram... And the tree of aspirations.
ryan		 The answers are all in there.
ryan		The answers are all in there.  ... are-all-in-there.
bob		And what do you suggest I tell them?
natalie		 Perhaps you're underestimating the positive effect your career transition may have on your children.
bob		Positive effect?
natalie		Well, tests have shown that children under moderate trauma have a tendency to apply themselves academically as a method of coping.
bob		Go fuck yourself. That's what my kids'll think.
ryan		Your children's admiration is important to you?
bob		Yeah. It was.
ryan		 Well, I doubt they ever admired you, Bob.
bob		Hey asshole, aren't you here to console me?
ryan		I'm not a shrink, Bob. I'm a wake up call. You know why kids love athletes?
bob		Because they screw lingerie models.
ryan		No, that's why we love athletes. Kids love them because they follow their dreams.
bob		Yeah, well I can't dunk.
ryan		But you can cook.
bob		What are you talking about?
ryan		Your resume says you minored in French Culinary Arts. Most students work the frier at KFC. You bussed tables at Il Picatorre to support yourself. Then you got out of college and started working here.  How much did they first pay you to give up on your dreams?
bob		 Twenty seven thousand a year.
ryan		At what point were you going to stop and go back to what made you happy?
ryan		Do you believe in fate, Bob?
bob		Fate?
ryan		Yeah. You know, the mysterious ways in which we wind up doing the things we were meant to do.
bob		 I met my wife at a gas station.
ryan		Exactly. Well, I think fate is telling you to do something, Bob.
business woman		I've been waiting ten minutes. He just waltzes in and gets to cut in line.
desk clerk		We reserve priority assistance for our Hilton Honors members.
ryan		You should look into it - The promotions are great...
business woman		Fuck off.
ryan		You okay?
natalie		 Yeah. Fine.
natalie		Hungry, much?
ryan		Our expense account allots for forty dollars each on dinner. I plan on grabbing every mile I can.
natalie		Okay, you got to fill me in on this mile business. What's that all about? Are you talking like frequent flier miles?
ryan		Your really want to know?
natalie		 I'm dying to know.
ryan		I don't spend a nickel, if I can help it, unless it somehow profits my mileage account. I'm not talking hotel rooms and rental cars either, but internet services, cell phone, music downloads, teleflorists. The works. I shop them according to the miles they pay and I pit them against each other for the most value.
natalie		So, what are you saving up for? Hawaii? South of France?
ryan		No, it's not like that... The miles are the goal.
natalie		That's it? You're saving to save?
ryan		Let's just say I've got a number in mind and haven't hit it yet.
natalie		Wow. Seems a little abstract. What's your target?
ryan		I'd rather not.
natalie		 It's a secret target?
ryan		It's ten million miles.
natalie		Huh. Isn't ten million just a number?
ryan		Pi is just a number.
natalie		I guess we all need a hobby.
ryan		I'd be the seventh person to do it. More people have walked on the moon.
natalie		Do they give you a parade or something?
ryan		Lifetime Exec Platinum status. You get to meet the Chief Pilot, Maynard Finch. And... They put your name on the side of a plane.
natalie		Men get such a hard-on from putting their name on stuff... You guys don't grow up - You just need to pee on everything.
ryan		Now, who's stereotyping?
nancy		Fear of mortality. It's like Yes, you're going to die one day.
ryan		And why do you suppose that's singular to men?
natalie		Probably cause you can't have babies.
ryan		 Thanks for the advice.
ryan		Man alive.
natalie		Left, left, left, left... one more inch... and stop.
natalie		I don't get it.
ryan		My sister is cooky. She thinks this is charming... Like the gnome thing.
natalie		No, I mean... why would your sister want a fake photo in front of the St. Louis Airport?
ryan		She should be so lucky to visit Lambert Field. The Wright Brothers flew through there...  The domed main terminal was the first of its kind. A precursor to everything from JFK to DeGualle.
natalie		 Wow. Pretty sweet.
ryan		Why she wants dozens of reminders of all the places she hasn't been is beyond me.
natalie		Well, I'm sure she's going to be crushed for having missed this airport.
ryan		Look - Before Lindbergh could cross the Atlantic, he took off from one of those runways... Ever wondered why they call it the Spirit of St. Louis?
natalie		 No.
ryan		Sometimes, they just need to vent.
natalie		Please, for the love of God, can I fire the next one?
karen		I'm here to be fired, right?
natalie		We're here to talk about your future.
karen		You don't have to sugar coat it. I get the drill. What are they offering?
natalie		Inside the packet you'll find a clearly worked out severance package.
karen		Give me the bullet points.
natalie		Three months pay. Six months medical. A full year of placement services through our company, CTC.
karen		Placement services? How generous.
natalie		Commonly, it takes one month of searching for every ten thousand dollars you expect to earn in salary.
karen		So I could be looking for a while.
natalie		Not necessarily...
karen		Oh, don't sweat it. I'm pretty confident about my plans.
natalie		 Oh yeah?
karen		Yeah. Can you tell me? Is high tide in the morning or the evening?
natalie		I don't know. Why?
karen		There's this beautiful bridge by my apartment. I need to figure out what time to jump off it.
ryan		People say these things all the time. It comes with the trade.
natalie		They do?
ryan		Sure. People are always saying crazy stuff. They get worked up.
natalie		She was so calm.
ryan		 I think that's a good sign.
natalie		So they don't actually ever do it?
ryan		No... it's just talk.
natalie		How do you know? Do you follow up?
ryan		I mean, no, nothing good can come of that, but I don't think you should worry about it.
natalie		I'll be back soon. Not really sure how long this whole exercise is supposed to last. He's fine... It's hard for these guys to accept change, you know.  I... I'm not even going to answer that... No, I can't even think of him that way... He's old.
ryan		Okay. This is where it gets a little difficult, but stay with me. You have a new backpack... but this time, I want you to fill it with people. Start with casual acquaintances, people around the office, friends of friends and work your way to the people you trust with your most intimate secrets. Now move into family members - cousins, aunts, and uncles. Get your sisters and your brothers and you parents. Get them all in that backpack. And finally your husband or wife or boyfriend or girlfriend. Get them in their too.
natalie		Never...?
ryan		Is that so bizarre?
natalie		Yes. Yes it is.
ryan		I don't see the value.
natalie		What?
ryan		Sell me marriage.
natalie		I... Uh... How how about love?
ryan		Pff...
natalie		Okay. Stability?
ryan		How many stabile marriages do you know?
natalie		Someone to talk to, spend your life with?
ryan		I'm surrounded by people to talk to. I doubt that will change.
natalie		How about just not dying alone?
ryan		Starting when I was twelve, we moved each one of my grandparents into a nursing facility. My parents went the same way.  Make no mistake. We all die alone.
ryan		 Oh fuck.
natalie		Brian left me.
ryan		Oh, hey... I...
ryan		Hi. Alex this is Natalie. Natalie, this is my... friend, Alex.
alex		I should give you both a moment.
natalie		No, it's fine. I'm fine. Just stupid emotions.
alex		Maybe a drink?
natalie		Now we're talking.
alex		He broke up with you over text message?
ryan		 That's kind of like firing people over the internet.
alex		 What a weasely prick.
natalie		Yeah, but what does that make me? Someone who falls for a prick?
alex		We all fall for them. Pricks are spontaneous, unpredictable, and fun. And then we're surprised when they turn out to be pricks.
natalie		I followed him to Omaha.
ryan		You did?
natalie		I had a job waiting for me in San Fran, when he got an offer from ConAgra. He told me we could start a life together. So I followed him.
ryan		To Nebraska.
natalie		I look in the mirror and I just see compromise... I'm supposed to do something.
alex		You'll do plenty.
natalie		I just can't... I thought I'd be engaged by now.  No offense.
alex ryan		It's alright. None taken.
natalie		When I was sixteen, I thought by twenty three, I would be married, maybe have a kid... Corner office by day, entertaining at night. I was supposed to be driving a Grand Cherokee by now.
alex		Life can underwhelm you that way.
natalie		Now I have my sights on twenty nine, because thirty is just way too... apocalyptic. I mean, where did you think you'd be by...
alex		It doesn't work that way.
ryan		At a certain point, you stop with the deadlines.
alex		They can be a little counterproductive.
natalie		I don't want to say anything that's... anti-feminist. I mean, I really appreciate everything your generation did for me.
alex		 It was our pleasure.
ryan		Well done.
natalie		But sometimes it feels like no matter how much success I have, it all won't matter until I find the right guy.
alex		You really thought this guy was the one.
natalie		Yeah, I guess. I don't know. I could have made it work. He just really fit the bill.
ryan		The bill?
natalie		My type. You know, white collar. College grad. Loves dogs. Likes funny movies. Six foot one. Brown hair. Kind eyes. Works in finance but is Outdoorsy, you know, on the weekends.  How about you?
ryan		I'm not sure if...
natalie		I meant Alex...
ryan		Right.
alex		Huh, let me think for a sec.  Well, by the time you're thirty four, all the physical requirements are pretty much out the window. I mean you secretly prey he'll be taller than you.
natalie		Wow. That was depressing.
alex		Tried it. We're no picnic ourselves.
natalie		I don't mind being married to my career, and I don't expect it to hold me in bed as I fall asleep.  I just don't want to settle.
alex		You're young. Right now you see settling as some sort of failure.
natalie		It is. By definition.
alex		Don't worry, by the time someone is right for you, it won't feel like settling... And the only person left to judge you will be the twenty four year old girl with a target on your back.
natalie		So, what's the plan for this evening?
natalie		What...? Oh, is it illicit?
ryan		 No...
alex		It's nothing like that.
natalie		We are in Miami.
ryan		... We were going to hit that party for the tech conference in the hotel.
natalie		I didn't know you could just attend those...
alex		Well, I mean...
natalie		 You're going to crash it?
ryan alex		I mean, I don't know if... More money than they know These guy put on a quite a what to do with... party...
natalie		No, I get it. I'm in!
alex		Jennifer Chu?
natalie		Oh shit!
ryan		It's going to be fine.
ryan		 You okay there?
natalie		Oh yeah... This was a great idea.  You are so pretty. You're exactly what I want to look like in fifteen years.
alex		Thank you, Natalie.
conference leader		How's everyone doing out there?!
conference leader		I'm going to need you to all put your hands together for a very special guest - YOUNG... M... C!
young mc		THIS HERE'S A TALE FOR ALL THE FELLAS... TRY TO DO WHAT THOSE LADIES TELL US... GET SHOT DOWN CAUSE YOU'RE OVERZEALOUS... PLAY HARD TO GET, FEMALES GET JEALOUS...
ryan		Think she'll be okay?
alex		Look...
alex		Back home, I don't get to act the way I do with you.
ryan		That's why I don't have a "back home".
alex		I know. You're so cool. "Mr. Empty Back Pack".
ryan		You know about the back pack?
alex		I googled you.
ryan		You did?
alex		It's what us modern girls do when we have a crush.
ryan		Did it bother you?
alex		Well, that depends. Is the bag empty because you hate people or just the baggage they bring along?
ryan		I don't hate people. I'm not exactly a hermit.
alex		You just don't want to be tied down? The whole responsibility thing.
ryan		I don't think it's even that... I... First time I ever flew, I was sixteen.
alex		You're not going to answer? You're just going to tell me a story?
ryan		 It was January and I had just gotten my driver's license. The lakes were frozen over, so we piled into my car and hit the ice to do donuts. When, out of nowhere, I hit a soft spot and the hood of my car tilted up and I was sinking backwards into the water.
alex		Jesus...
ryan		I literally started to drown. Within a few seconds, I black out. Then, I wake up in the sky. I'm in a helicopter, laying on a stretcher. This guy in a uniform is telling me I was minutes away from dying.
alex		Oh my God.
ryan		Right?  My parents had taught me we lived in the best place on Earth, but now I could see the world was really just one place and comparing didn't make much sense. And I remember thinking - Don't tell me this isn't an age of miracles. Don't tell me we can't be everywhere at once.
ryan		I don't know what originally sparked the back pack. I probably needed to be alone. Recently, I've been thinking that maybe I needed to empty the bag before I knew what to put back in.
software dude		Hey... I think we're out of gas.
ryan		Hey, you're up...
alex		Got to fly stand-by and make a meeting in Milwaukee.
ryan		 Oh... Okay.
alex		 Oh, no. I made you feel cheap.
ryan		Yeah, all right... Just leave the money on the dresser.
alex		 I'll text you later so we can swap schedules.
ryan		I can't remember the last time I enjoyed spending time with someone as much as you.
alex		Neither can I.
natalie		Last night got a little out of hand. I said things... I don't remember everything I said. I just didn't want you to think...
ryan		Just relax. It was nice to see you cut loose. So, did you wake him up or slip out?
natalie		What?
ryan		This morning... Your new friend. Did you wake him for an awkward good bye or just slip out so he could feel like a whore.
natalie		 I... just left.
ryan		Protocol is always tricky.
natalie		I didn't know what was right.
ryan		Sometimes there really is no right thing to do.
natalie		What happened to Alex?
ryan		Had to skip town early to make a meeting.
natalie		That's too bad. Where does she live?
ryan		Chicago.
natalie		You thinking of going to see her?
ryan		I don't know. We just don't have that kind of relationship.
natalie		What kind of relationship do you have?
ryan		It's, you know. Casual.
natalie		Sounds pretty special.
ryan		It works for us.
natalie		Think there's any future there?
ryan		Never thought about it. What's going on here?
natalie		Really never thought about it?
ryan		 No.
natalie		How can you not think about these things? How does it not even cross your mind that you might want to have a future with somebody?
ryan		It's simple, you know that moment when you look into someone's eyes and you feel them looking right into your soul, and the whole world goes quiet for a second.
natalie		 Yes.
ryan		Right. Well, I don't.
natalie		You're an asshole.
ryan		Oh come on, I'm just dicking around. I need your help...
natalie		Don't you think it's worth giving her a chance?
ryan		A chance to what?
natalie		A chance at something real?
ryan		Natalie, your definition of "real" is going to evolve as you get older...
natalie		Would you stop condescending for one second? Or is that one of the principles of your bullshit philosophy?
ryan		Bullshit philosophy?
natalie		The isolation? The traveling? Is that supposed to be charming?
ryan		No, it's simply a life choice.
natalie		It's a cocoon of self-banishment.
ryan		Wow. Big words.
natalie		Screw you.
ryan		Well, screw you too.
natalie		You've set up a way of life that basically makes it impossible for you to make any human connections. Now, somehow, this woman runs the gauntlet of your ridiculous "life choice" and comes out the other end with a smile - Just so you can call her casual. Jesus. I need to grow up? You're a twelve year old.
ryan		I don't have a gauntlet of...
ryan		... Fuck!
ryan		These Detroit guys can be tough. They've been getting hammered. Don't get distracted. Stick to the simple stuff. Get the packet in their hands and get them out the door.
craig gregory		Welcome to Detroit.
ryan		What's going on here?
craig gregory		I've been getting those great numbers over the last few days. Thought we should nut up and give this a try.
ryan		We could use a little more time.
craig gregory		Gotta leave the nest at some point.
ryan		This is a real company, Craig. We're here to do some damage.
craig gregory		I know. Good thing we brought our best. So let's stop screwing around, alright?
ryan		Just give me a minute to prepare and get my things together.
craig gregory		I was thinking Natalie takes this one.
ryan		She's hardly ready for this.
craig gregory		I've been watching her. She's great.
ryan		 This is a whole other animal...
craig gregory		I mean, she created it. Natalie, you not up for it?
natalie		I'm... I'm game.
craig gregory		Atta girl.
ryan		Just remember, don't apologize. Don't tell them how hard this is for you. Today is one of the worst days they will ever have. What we feel doesn't even compare.
natalie		Got it.
ryan		Just keep it professional. You're going to do fine.
natalie		Hello, Mr. Samuels. My name is Natalie Keener.
samuels		 What's going on here?
natalie		I wish I was here with better news, however your position here at Deckers is no longer available.
samuels		What are you talking about?
natalie		You've been let go.
samuels		What, just like that? I can't believe... Who are you?
natalie		My name is Miss Keener. I am here to tell you about your options...
samuels		I work here for seventeen years and they send some fourth grader in here to can me? What the fuck is this?!
natalie		It's perfectly normal to be upset. However, the sooner you can tell yourself that there are greater opportunities waiting for you...
samuels		Greater opportunities? I'm fifty- seven-fucking years old!
natalie		Anybody who ever built an empire, or changed the world, sat where you are now. And it's because they sat there that they were able to do it.
ryan		You did good.
natalie		No, I'm alright.
natalie		Thanks.
ryan		We're being pulled off the road.  We're going home.
natalie		For good?
ryan		That's what it looks like.
natalie		I'm sorry about what I said about Alex. I was out of line.
ryan		It's alright. I understand.
natalie		I mean, who am I to be dolling out relationship advice?
ryan		It's fine.
natalie		You going to be okay?
ryan		What do you mean?
natalie		In Omaha?
ryan		Oh, I don't know.
natalie		It's better than you'd think.
natalie		Ryan, where are you going?
ryan		Grabbing another flight... Something I need to take care of. I'll see you in, uh... at home.
alex		I have to admit, when you asked me to meet you in Vegas... I thought we'd gamble, make out in a heart shaped jacuzzi, maybe see one of those weird French Canadian circus shows.
ryan		There'll be plenty of time for all that.  One more foot to the left.
alex		How do you feel about the wedding?
ryan		I'm fine, I guess.  Okay great... walk away.
alex		They're a cute couple.
ryan		Think so?
alex		Yeah, they'll make cute kids. If they're lucky, maybe look a little like you.
ryan		How do you like Wisconsin in February?
alex		Who doesn't? 
ryan		Northern Wisconsin.  What are you doing this weekend?
ryan		What? I haven't even...
alex		I can't.
ryan		Why not?
alex		I couldn't.
ryan		I'm being serious.
alex		You want me to be your date?
ryan		Well... Yeah.
alex		To a wedding... Jesus, Ryan. Your sister's wedding?
ryan		It's not like I know her that well.
alex		I'm just not sure if it's appropriate for me to...
ryan		Look. You know. I'm not the wedding type. But for the first time in my life... I don't want to be that guy, alone with his drink. I want a dancing partner. I want a plus one. And if you can stomach it, I'd like it to be you.
alex		Okay.
ryan		Really?
alex		Yeah, I can't believe I... Yeah, I'm in. When is it?
ryan		I feel like we should kiss or something.
alex		Then kiss me.
ryan		 Are you available?
kara		Ryan?
ryan		Kara...
kara		Well, hello.
alex		Hi.
kara		 Ryan has told me nothing about you.
ryan		Kara, what are you doing at a hotel?
kara		Fuck, I was hoping I wouldn't have to... Yeah, uh, Frank and I are trying out a trial separation.
ryan		You're not staying at the house?
kara		There was an extra room on hold here, so I just took it for the weekend.
ryan		Oh, okay.
kara		Yup. So, you guys are dating?
ryan		Um...
alex		It's not exactly...
kara		Hey, don't worry about it. We're all getting a little old to be calling someone girlfriend... I remember when mom used to call Jack her boyfriend. It drove me up the wall. Boyfriends are for kids...  And I'm just a divorcee!
ryan		So, the rehearsal dinner?
kara		Yeah, I'll see you two there.
ryan		There's a packet.
alex		What in life is worth doing that doesn't have a packet.
ryan		Um, I love you?
julie		Oh my God, Ryan!
alex		The basket was very lovely.
julie		Tammy wrapped all of them.
ryan		Me? You're the one getting married.
julie		I know, right? You haven't even seen my ring.
ryan		I brought those photos you were asking for...
julie		 Oh great! They go over there.
ryan		There were quite a few already up there. Almost couldn't find room.
julie		I know, isn't it great how everyone chipped in?
ryan		What gave you the idea to do something so...
alex		 ... Substantial?
julie		Well, Jim has a lot of our nest egg invested in this real estate venture right now. So when we went over our finances, a honeymoon just didn't seem affordable this second... So I thought... Hey, just because we can't travel doesn't mean we can't have pictures.
alex		It was a great idea.
julie		Thanks.
jim		It's sixty acres up against the foothills. I subdivided the old Lazy W Ranch and took a nice slice for myself.
ryan		Sounds nice.
jim		Homes will go in the high fours.
ryan		Must be a nice development.
jim		 It's a community, not a development. The concept is turn-key everything. You buy a maintenance contract with the home. We'll whack your weeds, we'll even change the light bulb. Furniture? You buy your own or choose a package. Seamless traditionalism, yet all the perks.
ryan		Nice.
jim		We all need a place to call our own. This is America. This is what we were promised.
ryan		That's a nice touch.
jim		What?
ryan		That bit at the end about promise... I like it.
jim		 So, you still renting that one- bedroom?
ryan		I gave it up.
jim		 You own now?
ryan		No.
jim		But you're looking?
ryan		Not really. No.
tammy		Can you believe it's tomorrow?! How are you going to sleep?
julie		I don't know!
tammy		You want some Xanax?
ryan		I don't think that's for sleeping.
julie		No, I'm good. I'll have some warm milk. That should do the trick.
jim		One more box...
alex		I'll get it.
ryan		You sure?
alex		Yeah, yeah...
ryan		Jim seems like a good guy.
julie		Yeah, I know... Isn't he great?
kara		He's going to make a great husband.
ryan		Hey, Julie, I was thinking... with dad not being... Well, I didn't know if you had someone to walk you down the aisle...
julie		Oh, yeah, Jim's uncle is going to do it.
kara		 He's been really supportive.
ryan		Oh... Oh, great. Just wanted to make sure you were covered. So I should get there at...
julie		Guests are arriving around 5ish. Things get going at 530. So you know, around then. It's easy. Just come down the elevator.
ryan		Hey Kara?
kara		Yeah.
ryan		Can you believe she's getting married already? She's just a kid.
kara		No Ryan. Actually, she's 37 years old. She's barely squeaking by.
ryan		Oh.
kara		Yup. Sleep tight.
alex		That's all you got?
ryan		Are we really doing this?
alex		Give me a boost.
ryan		I took geography in here.  That was my seat.
alex		You ever fool around with one of your teachers?
ryan		No. You?
alex		Not until college. Come on, show me around.
alex		You played basketball?
ryan		Point guard. Don't act so surprised.
alex		I didn't know you were such a jock.
ryan		My first fight.
alex		How'd it go?
ryan		Got my ass kicked.
ryan		This is where we used to go to make out.
alex		Very romantic.
alex		I'm really happy I came here.
ryan		 Go Cougars!
ryan		 It's Kara.
kara		Ryan, where are you? We're having a meltdown here.
ryan		What's wrong? What happened?
kara		It's Jim. Can you get back here? We need your help.
ryan		Yeah, of course...
alex		I'll grab your suit.  Good luck.
ryan		What happened?
kara		Jim's got cold feet.
ryan		Today?
kara		That's how cold feet work.
ryan		What do you want me to do?
kara		Talk to him.
ryan		You want me to talk to him?
kara		Hey, it's either you or me. You know my record. I've already struck out once.
ryan		I haven't been to bat. I haven't been in the dugout.
kara		Don't you talk for a living? Motivational type stuff?
ryan		I tell people how to avoid commitment.
kara		What kind of fucked up message is that?
ryan		It's a philosophy.
kara		It's stupid.
ryan		Hey, it might have helped you.
kara		Come on, Ryan. You haven't been around much. Fuck, you basically don't exist to us. I know you want to be there for her... Well here it is. This is your chance.
jim		Ryan?
ryan		Oh, hey Jim.
jim		You ever read this?
ryan		Yeah, it's pretty powerful stuff.
jim		I'll say.
ryan		Kara mentioned you were having some... thoughts?
jim		I don't think I can do this.
ryan		Okay. What makes you say that today?
jim		I was just laying there last night in bed and I couldn't sleep. I was thinking about the wedding and the ceremony and all. Us buying a house and moving in together. Having a kid... Having another kid...  ... Thanksgiving, Christmas, spring break, football games, all of a sudden they're out of school, getting jobs, getting married, And then, you know... I'm a grandparent. I'm retired. Before you know it - I'm dead... and I just kept thinking... "What's the point?"
ryan		The point?
jim		Yeah, I mean, what am I starting here?
ryan		 It's marriage... it's the most beautiful thing on Earth... you know, what everyone aspires to...
jim		You never got married.
ryan		That's true...
jim		You never even tried.
ryan		Well, it's hard to define "try".
jim		You seem happier than most of my married friends.
ryan		Jim, I'm not going to lie. Marriage can be a pain in the ass. And you're kind of right - All of this is just stuff on the way to your eventual demise.
jim		 No... I guess not.
ryan		I don't want to sound like a Hallmark card, but... Life? It's better with company.
jim		Yeah, Julie went back to the apartment and I was all alone in that big honeymoon suite...
ryan		Kind of lonely?
jim		Yeah.
ryan		Hey. Everybody needs a copilot.
jim		That's a nice touch.
ryan		Thanks.
jim		What's the mood like out there?
ryan		It's not good... Emotional.
jim		What should I do?
ryan		 Go get her.
jim		I'm sorry I'm such a fuck up... Will you be my co-pilot?
kara		Welcome home.
ryan		Hi, I'm Ryan.
wedding guest		I'm your cousin... Harold.
ryan		Oh, hey!
alex		When am I going to see you?
ryan		You're just going to have to come and visit.
alex		So settled down. You're not going to change on me...
ryan		Same guy. Just one address.
alex		Call me if you get lonely.
ryan		... I'm lonely.
natalie		... Some guy sits down in a conference room somewhere and a server routes their session to one of our termination engineers.
ryan		You don't actually call them that.
natalie		I prefer "terminators", but it bumped with legal.
ryan		Really? I can't imagine why.
natalie		They follow a workflow that can take them through anything from a standard dismissal to a violent aggressor.
ryan		Are they actually on line, right now?
natalie		No, they're beta-testing. Role-playing. We go live at the end of the month.  Kyle, you're running through the events too quickly. You have to give them time to acknowledge each statement. Okay? It's a legal thing.
ryan		This is ridiculous.
goalquest host		You ready to rock?
ryan		Last year, I flew three hundred fifty thousand miles. The moon is only two fifty.
ryan		Imagine for a second that you're carrying a backpack... I want you to feel the straps on your shoulders... You feel them?
ryan		Now, I want you to pack it with all the stuff you have in your life. Start with the little things.
ryan		The... um... The stuff in drawers and on shelves.
ryan		Excuse me.
goalquest host		 Okay, everyone just relax. We'll have your next guest out in a sec.
ryan		Surprise.
alex		 What are you doing here?
alex's husband		Who was that?
alex		... just some guy who was lost.
ryan		How could you lie to me?
alex		What were you thinking - Just showing up at my door like that?
ryan		What do you mean? I wanted to see you. I didn't know you had a family - Why didn't you tell me that?
alex		Come on, I thought we signed up for the same thing.
ryan		Try to help me understand. What is it you signed up for?
alex		I thought our relationship was perfectly clear. You're... 
ryan		I'm an escape?
alex		You know, a break from our normal lives... A parenthesis.
ryan		I'm a parenthesis?
alex		Seriously, Ryan? I can't believe we're having this conversation. I mean what do you want?
ryan		I thought I was a part of your real life.
alex		 Look, Ryan. I'm a grown up. I don't hold a grudge. When you're ready to be an adult and see me again, just give me a call.
ryan		Yeah, right, you got me in 2C?
ryan		What's got you so fucking happy?
purser		Ladies and gentlemen, we have a special announcement to make.
ryan		Oh no...
maynard finch		 That seat taken?
maynard finch		You're the youngest yet to hit twenty mil. Don't know where you found the time...  Oh right, here you go.
ryan		You know how many times I've thought about this moment? Played out the conversation I'd have with you right here.
maynard finch		Really? What did you want to say?
ryan		You know, I... I can't remember.
maynard finch		That's alright. Happens to all of us.  So, where you from?
ryan		I'm from here.
airline operator		Hello, Mr. Bingham.
ryan		Oh, how did you know it was me?
airline operator		This is your dedicated line. We reserve them for our most loyal and dedicated fliers.
ryan		Oh. I'd like to transfer some of my miles. Can you open up an account under Jim and Julie Miller?
airline operator		Certainly. How many miles would you like to transfer?
ryan		How many miles would it take to circle the globe?
airport operator		We have our "around-the-world" tickets. They're five hundred thousand miles each.
ryan		Sounds perfect.
craig gregory		Got a second?
ryan		 I'm going to have to call you right back.
craig gregory		What happened to you yesterday? I was trying to reach you all day.
ryan		I got tied up in... personal stuff. What's going on?
craig gregory		Do you remember Karen Barnes?
ryan		No, I fire dozens of people a day.
craig gregory		She killed herself. Jumped off a bridge.
ryan		Fuck.
craig gregory		 Do you remember anyone giving you any signals of anything? Depression?
ryan		They're all depressed. We're firing them.
craig gregory		Hey, look, you know I have to ask.
ryan		No, I don't remember anything. Of course they're upset. You never think that...
craig gregory		Wasn't any woman who gave you any indication...? Anything?
ryan		No, nothing that stands out.  Is Natalie alright? Is she coming in?
craig gregory		Natalie quit.
ryan		Just like that?
craig gregory		Text message.
ryan		She say where she was going?
craig gregory		Nah. She was pretty upset.
ryan		I should give her a call.
craig gregory		 I need you back in the air.
ryan		I'm fine. What about video conferencing?
craig gregory		CTC is pausing on the whole new media front for a moment. Giving it a little more thought. Getting our work horses back out doing what they do best.
ryan		How long are you sending me out?
craig gregory		We're going to let you sail and sail. Send us a postcard if you ever get there.
manager		So, what happened?
natalie		How exactly do you mean?
manager		You graduated top of your class. You seemed to have your pick of employment... Including right here. Instead, you went to Omaha... to fire people for a living.
natalie		 It's challenging work.
manager		I can't imagine doing that day-in- day-out. Not in this climate.
natalie		 ... I followed a boy.
manager		Everybody does at one point or another.
manager		This guy says I'd be lucky to have you.
manager		Hope he's right.
****Dialogues from script :Usual_Suspects.txt****

keaton		I'd have to say my spine was broken, Keyser.
keaton		What time is it?
3.		 MOVE OUT ACROSS THE DECK. Below is the stream of gasoline still flowing freely.  The sound of the gasoline igniting. The flame runs in front of us towards the barrels, finally leaping up in a circle around the drums, burning the wood of the pallet and licking the spouting stream as it pours from the hole.  MOVE OUT ACROSS THE DOCK, away from the boat.  The pier to which the boat is moored is littered with DEAD BODIES. Twenty or more men have been shot to pieces and lie scattered everywhere in what can only be the aftermath of a fierce fire-fight.  A BARGE COMES INTO VIEW.  On the deck of the barge is a tangle of cables and girders. The mesh of steel and rubber leaves a dark and open cocoon beneath its base.  MOVE INTO THE DARKNESS.  Sirens are close now. Almost here. The sound of fire raging out of control.  SIRENS BLARING. TIRES SQUEALING. CAR DOORS OPENING. FEET POUNDING THE PAVEMENT.  MOVE FURTHER, SLOWER, INTO THE DARKNESS  Voices yelling. New light flickering in the surrounding darkness.  SUDDENLY, AN EXPLOSION.  Then silence. TOTAL BLACKNESS.  We hear the voice of ROGER "VERBAL" KINT, whom we will soon meet.  VERBAL  New York. - six weeks ago. A truck loaded with stripped gun parts got jacked outside of Queens. The driver didn't see anybody, but somebody fucked up. He heard a voice. Sometimes, that's all you need.
yellow 06/11/94		4. BOOM 3     INT. DARK APARTMENT - DAY - NEW YORK - SIX WEEKS PRIOR TO PRESENT DAY
voices		POLICE. SEARCH WARRANT. DON'T MOVE.
hockney		Can I help you?
man		Todd Hockney'
hockney		Who are you?
hockney		We don't do gun repair.
5a.		 The man is DEAN KEATON, a well dressed, sturdy looking man in his forties with slightly graying hair. He looks much better than he did in the opening scene. The woman with him is EDIE FINNERAN, age thirty-three, poised and attractive - Easily the calmer of the two.  BLUE 06/01/94
edie		Let me look at you.
keaton		I'm having a stroke.
edie		You've come far. You're a good man. I love you.
fortier		Edie, nice to see you.
edie		Sorry we're late.
fortier		Nonsense. Sit, please.
renault		 You must be Mr. Keaton.
edie		I'm sorry. Dean Keaton
renault		Monsieur Renault. A pleasure.
keaton		How do you do?
fortier		Monsieur Fortier. So nice to finally meet you.
yellow 06/11/94		7A. PAN UP TO REVEAL: SPECIAL AGENT DAVID KUJAN , U.S. CUSTOMS. Thirtyish, dark-haired and determined.
keaton		Skeptical. RENAULT We find the concept brilliant, but New York is difficult for new restaurants. How can we be certain that our money will be returned in the long run? Keaton looks at Edie and smiles confidently. KEATON It's simple gentlemen, design
fortier		This was the part of the proposal that intrigued us, but I'm not sure I follow.
keaton		Let's say for example -
keaton		Dave. I'm in a meeting.
kujan		Time for another one.
keaton		This is my attorney, Edie Finneran. 
9.		KEATON  This is Mr. Renault and Mr. Fortier. Everyone, this is David Kujan.
kujan		Special Agent Kujan. U.S. Customs.  These gentlemen are with the New York police department. You look great, Keaton. Better than I would have thought.
renault		Is there a problem, Mr. Keaton?
kujan		The small matter of a stolen truck-load of guns that wound up on a boat to Ireland last night.
fortier		Mr. Keaton?
keaton		If you will excuse us for a moment, gentlemen.
kujan		We need to ask you some questions downtown. You'll be quite awhile.
renault		We should leave you to discuss whatever this is.
keaton		Please. Sit.
keaton		Enjoy the meal.  I'LL call you.
hockney		Hand-me-the-keys, you-fucking-cock- sucker.
12.		 VERBAL  It was bullshit. The whole rap was a setup. Everything is the cops' fault. You don't put guys like that in a room together. Who knows what can happen?  13 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT 13  McManus sits in a chair in front of a white wall. He smiles at someone off-screen.  OVERLAPPED:
12a.		 VERBAL  You want to know what your buddy Fenster told us?  BLUE 06/01/94 
fenster		Hey, are we talking about the same thing?
13a.		 VERBAL  You're a known hijacker. You're sweating like a guilty motherfucker. That's my p.c. Save us the time. Tell us where the truck is.  Fenster knocks on the table.
fenster		HELLO? Can you hear me in the back? P.C.  He looks under his chair.  FENSTER  Where is it? I'm lookin'. It's not happening. What's going on with that? I want  BLUE 06/01/94
14.		 15 INT. INTERROGATION ROOM 15
hockney		- my lawyer. I'll have your badge, cocksucker.
hockney		I live in Queens. What the fuck is this? You come into my store and lock me up in front of my customers. What the hell is wrong with this country? Are you guys gonna charge me or what?
hockney		I'll fuck your father in the shower. Charge me, dick-head.
keaton		with what?
keaton		Hey, that was your mistake, not mine. Did you ever think to ask me? I've been
15.		KEATON  walking around with the same face, same name - I'm a businessman, fellas.
keaton		Like I said. It was all your mistake. Charge me with it and I'll beat it. Let's get back to the truck.
fenster		Somebody should do something. What is this shit - getting hauled in every five minutes? Okay, so I did a little time, does that mean I get railed every time a truck finds its way off the planet?
hockney		These guys got no probable cause.
hockney		You are a criminal.
fenster		Why you gotta go and do that? I'm trying to make a point.
keaton		Then make it. Christ, you're making me tired all over.
keaton		You heard right.
hockney		The word I got is you hung up your spurs, man. What's that all  about?
hockney		Rumor has it, Keaton's gone straight - cleaning house. I hear he's tapping Edie Finneran.
hockney		She's a heavy-weight criminal lawyer from uptown. Big-time connected. She could erase Dillinger's record if she tried. I hear she's Keaton's meal ticket.  Is it true?
17.		Keaton shoots McManus a fiery glare. FENSTER I'd say you've gotten on his main and central nerve, McManus.
keaton		Do your friend a favor, Fenster, keep him quiet .
keaton		 This whole thing was a shakedown.
keaton		How many times have you been in a line- up? It's always you and four dummies. The P.D. pays homeless guys ten bucks a head half the time. No way they'd line five felons in the same row. No way. And what the hell is a voice line-.up? A public defender could get you off of that.
fenster		So why the hell was I hauled in and cavity searched tonight?
keaton		It was the Feds. A truck load of guns gets snagged, Customs comes down on N.Y.P.D. for some answers - they come up with us. They're grabbing at straws. It's politics - nothing you can do.
fenster		I had a guy's fingers in my asshole tonight.
hockney		Is it Friday already? SCRIPT DATE 5/25/94
fenster		Fuck you. I'11 never shit right again. So who did it? Own up.
keaton		I don't want to know.
hockney		Fuck who did it. What I want to know is, who's the gimp?
keaton		He's alright.
hockney		How do I know that? How about it, pretzel-man? What's your story?
keaton		His name is Verbal Kint. I thought you guys knew him.
verbal		Roger really. People say I talk too much.
hockney		Yeah, I was gonna tell you to shut up.
keaton		We've met once or twice. Last time was in...
verbal		County. I was in for fraud.
keaton		You were waiting for a line-up then, too. What happened with that?
verbal		I walked. Ninety days, suspended.
hockney		So you did it?
verbal		To your mother's ass.
keaton		 Let it go.
keaton		Why don't you just calm down'
hockney		What do you care what he says?
verbal		I'm interested, sure.
keaton		I'm not kidding. Shut your mouth.
keaton		No, you're missing the point. Shut up. I don't want to hear anything you have to say. I don't want to know about your "job". Just don't let me hear you. I want nothing to do with any of you -  I beg your pardon but all of you can go to hell.
yellow 06/11/94		21. A UNIFORM COP trots up to him. COP Who are you?
baer		Agent Jack Baer, F.B.I. How many dead?
cop		Fifteen so far. We're still pulling some bodies out of the water.
cop		Looking for anyone in particular?
baer		f don't want any of the bodies taken away until I've had a chance to go over this, understood?
cop		I have to clear the scene. I've got word direct from the Chief
baer		 Yes, the chief. Spooky stuff. Any survivors?
cop		Two. There's a guy in county hospital, but he's in a coma. The D.A. has the other guy - A cripple - from New York I think. Listen, the Chief said -
baer		Excuse me.
22.		 20 MT. OCEAN 20  A half mile out from the pier.  The sea is choppy, stirred by the wind. An object floats into view a few feet away, bobbing in the water.  It is A DEAD BODY - a man, face down, wearing a CHECKERED BATHROBE. He drifts quietly toward the open ocean.  21    INT. HEARING ROOM - DAY - LOS ANGELES PRESENT                      2:  Verbal Kint sits in a chair in front of a microphone attached to a tape recorder, his brow beaded with sweat.  On the wall behind him is the seal of the STATE OF CALIFORNIA  He is cleaner, better kept, in a well-cut suit and neatly trimmed hair. He looks older than he did in New York - worn down.  A flurry of voices banter off screen. Verbal's eyes follow the voices back and forth.  VOICE #1  The district attorney's office will comply provided -  VOICE #1 No provisions, nothing. My clients testimony for his immunity.  VOICE #2 May-I be frank, Counselor? I suspect your political power as much as I respect it. I don't know why Mr. Kint has so many faceless allies in City Hall, and I don't care. The embarrassment he helped cause the city of New York will not happen here.  VOICE #1 Immunity.  YELLOW 06/11/94
22a.		 VOICE #2 Counselor, I will prosecute your client.  VOICE #1 Then prosecute. I will be very impressed to see if the District Attorney manages to bring in twenty-seven simultaneous counts of murder against one man with cerebral palsy. I would think a man with your job would agree with these alleged "faceless people in City Hall" you mention.  VOICE #2 1 One would think the counsel is veiling a threat.  VOICE #1                                     + Counsel isn't veiling anything.  VOICE #2 I'11 take my chances then. I'11 feel safer without a job if a man like Mr. Kint is behind bars.  VOICE #1 Mr. Kint will plead guilty to weapons possession.  VOICE #2 You're joking.  VOICE #1 Weapons. Misdemeanor one.  VOICE #2 Counselor, you're insulting me.  VOICE #1 Counselor, you're bluffing. Shall I push for misdemeanor two?  Voices mumble off screen. Verbal fidgets in his chair.  VOICE #2                                     + Misdemeanor one. Fine. This is ludicrous.  A tiny smile and a genuine look of disbelief flash across Verbal's face.  YELLOW 6/11/94
kujan		What do you mean I can't see him?
rab in		The D.A. came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county. Kint's lawyer comes in and five minutes later, the D.A. comes out looking like he'd been bitch-slapped by the boogey man. They took his statement and cut him a deal.
kujan		Did they charge him with anything?
rab in		Weapons. Misdemeanor two.
kujan		What'the fuck is that?
rabin		I give the D.A. credit for getting that much to stick. This whole thing has turned political. The Mayor was here - the chief - the Governor called this morning, for Christ's sake. This guy is
220.		RABIN  protected - From up on high by the prince of fucking darkness.
kujan		When does he post bail?
rab in		Two hours, tops.
kujan		I want to see him.
pink 06/07/94		23-24. 23 INT. RABIN'S OFFICE                                                  23 RABIN                                 + Dave, please.
kujan		This won't be an' interrogation, just a... friendly chat to kill time.
rab in		 He won't go into the interrogation room.
kujan		Someplace else, then.
rab in		Where?
kujan		If it was a dope deal, where's the dope, if it was a hit, who called it in?
rabin		And I am sure you have a host of wild                   + theories to answer these questions.
kujan		You know damn well what I think.
rabin		That's crazy, Dave and it doesn't matter. He has total immunity and his story checks out. He doesn't know what you want to know.
kujan		I don't think he does. Not exactly, but there's a lot more to his story. I want to know why twenty-seven men died on that pier for what looks to be ninety-one million dollars worth of dope that wasn't there. Above all, I want to be sure that Dean Keaton is dead.
rab zn		He's dead.
kujan		Two hours. Just until he makes bail.
rab in		They're all dead. No matter how tough you                 r. say this Keaton was, no one on that boat could've made it out alive.
plumber		Ridgly, this is Special Agent Jack Baer from the F.B.I. Agent Baer, this is Doctor Ridgly Waiters.
ridgly		Nice to meet you.
baer		Is he talking?
ridgly		He regained consciousness less than an hour ago. He spoke - not English - then he lapsed.
baer		Hungarian?
ridgly		I don't
baer		It was Hungarian. Most of them were Hungarians. Any fluent Hungarians on your staff?
ridgly		We have a Turkish audiologist.
baer		will he die?
plumber		There's a chance.
kovash		<<Find someone who understands me, you idiot, I'm going to be killed, You'll all be killed if he has to do it. Help me, God. They're all stupid. Get someone who understands me or we're all going to die.>>
yellow 06/11/94		30A. Baer pulls a cellular phone out of his jacket and dials. BAER Call hospital security and put a man on the door until the police get here.
kovash		<<Why are you just standing there, you idiot? I'm not speaking English am I? Wouldn't it make sense to find someone who could talk to me so you could find the person that set me on fire, perhaps? He is the Devil. You've never seen anyone like Keyser Soze in all your miserable life you idiot. Keyser Soze. Do you at least understand that? Keyser Soze. The Devil himself. Or are you American policemen io stupid that you haven't even heard of him. Keyser Soze, you ridiculous man. KEYSER SOZE . >>
plumber		Is he dangerous?
baer		Yes.
kovash		Keyser - Soze.
baer		What?
kovash		Keyser - Soze.
baer		No shit?  Joel, call Dan Metzheiser over at Justice and find Dave Kujan from Customs.
kujan		 Verbal, you know we're trying to help you.
verbal		Sure. And I appreciate that. And I want to help you, Agent Kujan. I like cops. I would have liked to have been a Fed myself but my C.P. was -
kujan		Verbal, I know you know something. I know you're not telling us everything.
verbal		I told the D.A. everything I know.
28		28    INT. WORKSHOP
verbal		Sure. Fifteen years ago, but he was a good thief Anyway, the cops wouldn't let him go legit.
kujan		Keaton was a piece of shit.
verbal		You trying to get a rise out of me, Agent Kujan?
kujan		I just want to hear your story.
verbal		It's right here.
kujan		According to your statement you are a short-con operator. Run of the mill seams. Everything you do, you learned from somebody else.
verbal		That's been suppressed. Anything in there is inadmissible.
kujan		Oh, I know. Sweet deal you have. Total immunity .
verbal		 Well I do have the weapons charge. I'm looking at six whole months hard time.
kujan		 You know a dealer named Ruby Deemer, Verbal?
verbal		You know a religious guy named John Paul?
kujan		You know Ruby is in Attica?
verbal		He didn't have my lawyer.
kujan		I know Ruby. He's very big on respect. Likes me very much.
verbal		There's nothing in there about Ruby.
kujan		I'11 be sure to mention that to him.
verbal		No.
kujan		I'11 get right to the point. I'm smarter than you. I'11 find out what I want to know and I'11 get it from you whether you like it or not.
verbal		I'm not a rat.
rab in		Can we get started again?
kujan		Now what happened after the line-up?
edie		...and the desk Sergeant is actually trying to tell me he can't release you? Can you believe that? You weren't even charged. New York police - Jesus. I want to take pictures of your face to bring to the D.A. first thing in the morning.
keaton		Just forget about it.
edie		Absolutely not.
keaton		Edie, please. I don't want to hear this right now. What did Renault and Fortier say?
edie		They want more time to think about investing.
keaton		Goddamnit.
edie		They just said they wanted time.
keaton		Time for what, Edie? Time to look into me a little more, that's what. No matter how well you cover my tracks now, they'll find out who I am.
edie		Give me some credit. I got you this far, let's go to the grand jury. This is never going to stop if we -
keaton		No. It's never going to stop, period. It won't take more than a week before every investor in this city is walking away from us. It's finished. I'm finished.
edie		Don't give up on me now, Dean.
keaton		They'll never stop.
edie		I love you.
keaton		 They ruined me tonight.
edie		Dean, I love you. Do you hear me?
keaton		Huh?
edie		Come home with me, please. Dean?
edie		Come home, Dean.
keaton		 Alright.
keaton		What are you doing here'! How did you find me?
verbal		I just asked one of the detectives downtown. He seemed pretty happy to tell  me. Keaton curses under his breath and motions for Verbal to come in. 32 32    INT. EDIE'S APARTMENT
edie		Dean, who was at the
verbal		How do you do?
keaton		Verb - Roger, this is Edie Finneran. Edie, this is Roger Kint, he was at
edie		 I know who he is.
verbal		I hope I didn't disturb you.
edie		I hope so, too, Mr. Kint. Can I get you something to drink?
verbal		A glass of water would be nice.
keaton		What the hell do you want?
verbal		I wanted to talk to you. The other guys -
keaton		I did you a favor by standing up for you last night, but don't think we're friends. I'm sorry, but I have other things -
verbal		They're gonna do a job. Three million dollars, maybe more.
41.		 VERBAL  Thank you.  Verbal drinks slowly. Edie stands over him, her face blank. It is an awkward moment. She deliberately makes Verbal uncomfortable.  LONG PAUSE - FINALLY:
edie		So what is it you do, Mr. Kint?
verbal		Umm ...
edie		A hijacker like Dean, here? Or something more creative?
keaton		That's enough, Edie.
edie		 I don't know what you came here for, but we won't have any part of it.
keaton		Edie, please.
edie		I've spent the last year of my life putting his back together again - I won't have you come in here and - What makes you think - GET OUT. GET OUT OF m HOME. HOW DARE YOU COME HERE?
edie		Don't touch me. Just don't,
keaton		Get out.
verbal		If you'll just let me -
keaton		 Hurt you, you sonofabitch? I could kill you.
verbal		 They're going to hit the Taxi Service.  Keaton freezes. LONG PAUSE.
verbal		New York's Finest Taxi Service.
keaton		They - That's bullshit. They don't operate anymore.
verbal		McManus has a friend in the Fourteenth Precinct. They're coming out for one job - Thursday. They're picking up a guy smuggling emeralds out of South America. Fenster and McManus have a fence set to take the stuff.
keaton		What fence? Who?
verbal		Some guy in California. His name is Redfoot.
keaton		Never heard of him.
verbal		You have to come.
keaton		What's with you? What do you care whether I come or not?
verbal		They - They don't know me. You do. They won't take me unless you go. Look at me. I need this.
keaton		Tough break.
verbal		Don't tell me you don't need this. Is this your place?
44.		VERBAL  I'm not knocking you. You look like you've got a good little seam going with this lawyer -
keaton		You watch your mouth.
verbal		 Okay, okay. You say it's the real thing? That's cool.
keaton		I apologize.
verbal		I was out of line.
keaton		You okay?
verbal		I'11 be alright.
keaton		Well, I'm sorry.
verbal		Forget it.  I'11 probably shit blood tonight.
keaton		How are they going to do it?
verbal		McManus wants to go in shooting. I said no way.
keaton		Fenster and Hockney?
verbal		They're pretty pissed off. They'll do anything. Now I got a way to do it without killing anyone: but like I said, they won't let me in without you.
keaton		Three million?
verbal		Maybe more.
keaton		No killing?
verbal		Not if we do it my way.
keaton		 I swore I'd live above myself.  Verbal smiles, knowing he has him.  33 EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - DAY                                          33
rizzi		How was the flight?
oscar		Will that get me to the Pierre?
rizzi		That'll get you to Cape God.
strausz		What the
rizzi		LOOK OUT.
48.		 'He stands on the front of the roof and swings the hammer down.  39 INT. POLICE CAR 39
strausz		Give it up.
strausz		Do you know who I am?
hockney		We db now, Jerk-off.
hockney		When does the fence come?
verbal		In California?
hockney		Hold the fuckin' phone. You and Fenster? No, no, no.
hockney		I'm sure you can understand my hesitation.
fenster		Then who goes?
hockney		We all go. How about it, Keaton?
keaton		We need to lay low for a while.
verbal		We're going to miss the flight.
keaton		We'll make it.
verbal		Don't do this. Send her a card - something.
keaton		We'll make it.
51a.		 Keaton realizes he is standing on a balcony overlooking a library below.  He sees Edie working in the library with an old woman. The two women talk for a moment.  SUDDENLY, Keaton turns with a start. Verbal is standing behind him.  VERBAL We're gonna miss the plane.  She'll understand.  YELLOW 06/11/94
52.		 Edie is smiling and laughing with the old woman. Keaton's face is marked with guilt and anguish. Keaton turns and walks out of the waiting room. Verbal takes one last glance at Edie and turns back to Keaton.  46 46    INT. LIBRARY
kujan		Heartwarming. Really, I feel weepy.
verbal		You wanted to know what happened after the line-up, I'm telling you.
kujan		Oh come on, Verbal. Who do you think you're talking to? You really expect me to believe he retired? For a woman? Bullshit. He was using her.
verbal		He loved her.
kujan		Sure. And I'm supposed to believe that hitting the Taxi Service wasn't his idea
verbal		That was all Fenster and McManus.
kujan		Come on. Keaton was a cop for four years. Who else would know the Taxi Service
53.		KUJAN  better? That job had his name all over it.
verbal		You keep trying to lay this whole ride on                 t Keaton. It wasn't like that. Sure he knew, but Edie had him all turned around.                 r I'm telling you straight, I swear.                        +
kujan		Let me tell you something. I know Dean Keaton. I've been investigating him for three years. The guy I know is a cold-                    + blooded bastard. L.A.P.D. indicted him on three counts of murder before he was kicked off the force, so don't sell me the hooker with the heart of gold.                        +
verbal		You got him wrong.
kujan		Do I? Keaton was under indictment a total                 + of seven times when he was on the force.                  + In every case, witnesses either reversed                  + their testimony to the grand jury or died                 + before they could testify. When they                      t finally did nail him for fraud, he spent                  + five years in Sing Sing. He killed three prisoners inside - one with a knife in the tailbone while he strangled him to death. Of course I can't prove this but I can't prove the best part either.
48		48    SCENE DELETED
54.		 50 INT. WORKSHOP                                                        50 Rabin and Louis look at one another as they listen. KUJAN  He was dead just long enough for a murder rap to blow over, then he had lunch.
verbal		I don't know about that.
kujan		I don't think you do. But you say you saw Keaton die. I think you're covering his ass and he's still out there somewhere. I think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor. My bet is he's using you because you're stupid and you think he's your friend. You tell me he's dead, so be it. I want to make sure he's dead before I go back to New York.
verbal		 He wasn't behind anything. It was the lawyer.
kujan		What lawyer?
verbal		Back when I was in that barber shop quartet in Skokie, Illinois I used to have
kujan		You think I don't know you held out on the D.A.? What did you leave out of that testimony? I can be on the phone to Ruby Deemer in ten minutes.
verbal		The D.A. gave me immunity.
kujan		NOT FROM ME, YOU PIECE OF SHIT. THERE IS NO IMMUNITY FROM ME. You atone with me or the world you live in becomes the hell you fear in the back of your tiny mind. Every criminal I have put in prison,
56.		KUJAN 
verbal		There was a lawyer. Kobayashi.
kujan		Is he the one that killed Keaton?
verbal		No. But I'm sure Keaton's dead.
kujan		Convince me. Tell me every last detail. 52    SCENE DELETED                                                              52 53    INT. HOSPITAL - DAY                                                  53                         + Kovash's room is now filled with people. Jack Baer stands next to DANIEL METZHEISER, a balding man in his forties. Next to him is Doctor Plumber. Across from her is Ridgly Waiters.
baer		Are you the translator?
bodi		Patrolman Lionel Bodi, sir.
plumber		Agent Beer, this is getting out of hand.
baer		I'11 see to it we're gone before he blows his porch light, Doctor.
baer		 This is Tracy Fitzgerald. She's a composite sketch artist from county.
bodi		Hi.
tracy		Hi.
metzheiser		 I've got a noon meeting, Baer.
plumber		Agent Baer, please.
baer		Everyone calm down.  Ask this man about the shoot-out in the harbor.
bodi		<<My name is Bodi. How are you'>>
kovash		<<How am 17 You are as stupid as that one, but at least I can talk to you.>>
bodi		He says they were buying It doesn't make sense. I'm sorry, I'm a little rusty. They were there to buy something.
baer		Dope, we know.
bodi		Not dope. Something else. Some what?.. He doesn't knob what they were buying. But not dope... people.
metzheiser		Your witness is whacked, Baer.
bodi		He says he'll tell us everything he knows if we protect him.
bodi		No good. He needs guarantees. He says... his life is in danger... He has seen the Devil... looked him in the eye.
metzheiser		I'11 be on my way.
baer		 Tell him to tell this man what he was telling me before. Who is the Devil? Who did he see?
kovash		Keyser Soze He was in the harbor shooting everyone in sight.>>
bodi		He says he saw him in the harbor. He was shooting... Killing... Killing many men.
metzheiser		Did he say Keyser Soze? He saw Keyser Soze
bodi		He says he saw him in the harbor. He was shooting... Killing... Killing many men.
metzheiser		Did he say Keyser Soze? He saw Keyser Soze.
kovash		<<Keyser Soze. Keyser Sate. I've seen his face. I see it when I close my eyes.>>
bodi		He says he knows his face. He sees it when he closes his eyes.
metzheiser		Ask him what this Devil looks like.
baer		 Ready?
redfoot		How've you been?
redfoot		Alright. How's it going, Fenster?
fenster		Getting by.
redfoot		You got it?
keaton		 Snazzy dresser this guy.
redfoot		You must be Keaton.
redfoot		 The man with the plan.
keaton		We're on vacation.
redfoot		I've got a ton of work and no good people.
redfoot		A jeweler out of Texas named Saul. He rents a suite at a hotel downtown and does free appraisals. Buys whatever he can. Word is he moves with a lot of cash. I'11 take the merchandise, you keep the green.
hockney		Security?
redfoot		Two bodyguards. Pretty good.
redfoot		I'd expect nothing less.
redfoot		Take your time. Enjoy L.A.
keaton		A friend of mine in New York tells me you knew Spook Hollis.
redfoot		I hear you did time with old Spook. Yeah, he was a good egg. I used to run a lot of dope for him. Fuckin' shame he got shivved.
keaton		I shivved him.
redfoot		Business or personal?
keaton		A little of both.
redfoot		Ain't it a crime? Call if you're interested.
keaton		One job, that was the deal.
keaton		This is bullshit.
keaton		 I ever tell you about the restaurant I wanted to open?
63.		 56 56   INT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT  McManus walks along a line of cars. He comes across a black Mercedes and stops. He looks down at the license plate and walks over to the next car, a green Honda. He pulls a slim- jim out of his jacket and pops the lock an the Honda. He reaches in and opens the hood. He walks around and sticks his head in the engine.  57   INT. VAN                                                             57  Verbal sits behind the wheel. Keaton is beside him. Hockney and Fenster are in the back. They all watch McManus from where they are parked a few dozen yards away.  58   INT. PARKING GARAGE                                                  58 DING-DING The elevator bell sounds at the far end of the garage. The doors open. Two men in ill-fitting suits get out and look around cautiously. The first is TUCCI, a big bellied, white haired menace. The other is HIGHAM, lean and bad skinned. They are bodyguards and give it away by their every careful move.  They turn back to the elevator and motion to someone inside.  Out walks SAUL BERG, a slightly overweight man in his forties with an open collar silk shirt and a thick gold chain on his hairy chest. He carries a LARGE ALUMINUM BRIEFCASE.  He lets his guards do the worrying. He walks straight to his car. Saul passes McManus under the hood of the Honda. He takes out his keys and pushes a button on his key chain. The Mercedes beeps three times and tells Saul his alarm is off.  Tucci keeps an eye on McManus. Higham watches Saul.  McManus pretends to tinker with the car's engine. He has put a pistol just inside the grill and keeps it within reach.  The van on the other side of the garage starts and pulls out of the spot. It cruises over toward the Mercedes.  Tucci sees the van. He and Higham are suddenly busy trying to keep track. They hear laughing behind them and turn around.  YELLOW 06/11/94
higham		Just get in the car Saul.
hockney		I get out of the car, and man if the thing wasn't wrecked. And I see this broad in the back seat with nothing on.
fenster		RIGHT THERE. FREEZE.
keaton		Give me the case.
pause		 The only sound is Saul grappling with Keaton for the gun. His arm is halfway out the window. His elbow rests in the door frame.  Keaton cannot get the gun out of his hand. Finally, he pushes down with all his weight. Saul's elbow breaks backwards on the door frame. He screams in agony. The gun falls from his hand.  BLUE 06/01/94
hockney		What the hell?
keaton		Move.
keaton		Son of a bitch.
keaton		We did it your way. Now I'11 deal with him.
mcmanus		You gonna kill him?
keaton		I'm going to deal with him.
redfoot		Get a grip. I didn't know.
keaton		You didn't know.
redfoot		The job got thrown to me by this lawyer.
keaton		Who is he?
redfoot		Some Limey. He's a middle-man for somebody. He doesn't say and I don't ask.
keaton		We want to meet him.
redfoot		He wants to meet you. He called last night and asked me to set it up. What do I tell him'
keaton		Tell him we'll meet.
redfoot		McManus, you're a real bad-ass, but get off my tip.
kujan		So this lawyer...
verbal		Kobayashi.
kujan		Came from Redfoot.
verbal		Right.
kujan		And why leave this out when you talked to the D.A.?
kujan		Jack. What are you doing here?
baer		I've been looking all over for you. You still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor?
kujan		Yeah.
baer		You can stop looking. There was no coke. I've been in L.A. county with a guy they
70.		BAER  pulled out of a drainpipe in San Pedro yesterday after the shoot-out. He came to                 + this morning and started talking. He was part of a Hungarian mob there to do a deal with a bunch of goats from Argentina. He says it was definitely not a dope deal.
kujan		There was ninety-one million -
baer		We know, but our man says no way on the dope. This Hungarian tells me the whole bunch was pulling stumps for Turkey the next' day. They had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it.
kujan		What was the money for?
baer		He didn't know. No one doing the deal knew except a few key people. This guy says they were real hush about it. Whatever it was it was highly sensitive.
kujan		I don't get it.
baer		They tell me you got the cripple from New York in there. He mention Keyser Soze
kujan		Who ?
baer		Bear with me here...
63		63 INT. RABIN'S OFFICE - LATER
kujan		Who is Keyser Soze
verbal		Ahhh fuck.
kobayashi		Mr. Keaton?
keaton		What can we do for you?
kobayashi		My employer requires your services. One job. One day's work. Very dangerous. I don't expect all of you to live, but those who do will have ninety-one million dollars to divide any way they see fit.
keaton		Who's your boss?
kobayashi		My employer wishes to remain anonymous.
keaton		Don't jerk me off. We all know what this is. You don't work with me if I work with you without knowing who I'm working for. Now let's cut the shit. Who's the man?
kobayashi		I work for Keyser Sate.
keaton		What is this?
verbal		Who's Keyser Soze?
kobayashi		I am sure you've heard a number of tall tales, myths and legends about Mr. Soze I can assure you gentlemen, most of them are true.
verbal		Who's Keyser Soze?
kobayashi		Judging by the sudden change in mood, I am sure the rest of your associates can tell you, Mr. Kint. I have come with an offer directly from Mr. Soze. An order actually.
keaton		An order.
kobayashi		In nineteen-eighty one, Mr. Keaton, you participated in the hijacking of a truck in Buffalo, New York. The cargo was raw steel. Steel that belonged to Mr. Soze and was destined for Pakistan to be used in a Nuclear reactor. A very profitable violation of U.N. Regulations. You had no way of knowing this, because the man shipping the steel was working for Mr. Sate without his knowledge.                               +  Mr. Fenster and Mr. McManus hijacked a twin-prop cargo flight earlier this year out of Newark airport. The plane was carrying platinum and gold wiring. Also set for Pakistan.
keaton		You set up the line-up.
kobayashi		Mr. Soze made a few calls, yes. You were not to be released until I came to see you. It seems Mr. Keaton's attorney, Ms. Finneran, was a bit too effective in expediting his release. Holding the rest of you became a moot point.
keaton		What about Redfoot?
kobayashi		Mr. Redfoot knew nothing. Mr. Soze rarely                 t works with the same people for very long, and they never know who they're working for. One cannot be betrayed if one has no people.
fenster		So why tell us?
kobayashi		Because you have stolen from Mr. Soze. That you did not know you stole from him is the only reason you are still alive, but he feels you owe him. You will repay your debt.
hockney		Who is this guy? How do we know you work for Soze
kobayashi		I don't think that is relevant, Mr. Hockney. The five of you are responsible for the murder of Saul Berg and his bodyguards. Mr. Redfoot can attest to your involvement, and we can see to it that he will. He is not of your "superior" breed.
mcmanus		This is a load of shit.
kobayashi		The offer is this, gentlemen. Mr. Soze's primary interest, as I am sure you all know, is narcotics. He's been - competing shall we say, with a group of
75.		KOBAYASHI  Argentinians for several years. Competing with Mr. Soze has taken its toll. These Argentinians are negotiating the sale of ninety-one million dollars in cocaine in three days time. Needless to say, this purchase will revitalize the diminishing strength of their organization. Mr. Soze wants you to stop the deal. If you choose, you may wait until the buy. Whatever money changes hands is yours. The transaction will take place on a boat in San Pedro. Mr. Soze wants you to get to the boat and destroy the cocaine on board. Then you are free of your obligation to Mr. Soze.
keaton		Give me one good reason why I shouldn't kill you right now.
kobayashi		A gift from Mr. Soze gentlemen.
keaton		Jesus Christ. Open them.
hockney		They know everything.
fenster		Everybody I ever worked with, did time with.
hockney		They fucking know everything.
keaton		This is not right.
fenster		I don't know. Who was that guy that used to talk about Soze in New York?
fenster		Yeah. He said he did jobs for him. Indirect stuff. Always five times more money than the job was worth.
keaton		Come on. The guy is a pipe dream. This Kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
fenster		I don't know. This is bad.
hockney		It's bullshit. This guy could be L.A.P.D. I think it's a setup.
fenster		The way I hear it, Soze is some kind of butcher. No pity.
keaton		There' is no Keyser Soze
verbal		Who is Keyser Soze
kujan		Do you believe in him, Verbal?
verbal		Keaton always said: "I don't believe in God, but I'm afraid of him." Well I believe in God, and the only thing that scares me is Keyser SOZE.
70		70    INT. WORKSHOP
baer		I can introduce you to Dan Metzheiser from Justice. He has a file on Sate in D.C. It's been a hobby of his for a few years. A lot of guys equate him to that reporter on the Incredible Hulk.
baer		On the street? A few times. Outside stuff. Somebody was working for a guy who was working for a guy who got money through Keyser Soze. That kind of shit. Could be an old badge. A hex sign to keep people from fucking with you back when a name meant something.
rab in		But you're here.
baer		Shit yeah. I got a guy trying to walk out of the hospital on d fried drumstick to get away from SOZE. I'11 run it up the flagpole.
verbal		I came clean. I told it like it happened on the boat. So what if I left out how I got there? It's got so many holes in it, the D.A. would've told me to blow amnesty out my ass. So you got what you wanted out of me. Big fucking deal.
kujan		And this is why you never told the D.A.
verbal		You tell me, Agent Kujan. If I told you the Loch Ness Monster hired me to hit the harbor, what would you say?
kujan		Turn state's evidence. Take the stand on this and we'll hear it out.
verbal		I've got immunity now. What can you possibly offer me?
kujan		If there is a Keyser Soze he'll be looking for you.
verbal		Where's your head, Agent Kujan? Where do you think the pressure's coming from? Keyser Soze - or whatever you want to call him - knows where I am right now. He's got the front burner under' your ass to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later. Immunity was just to deal with you assholes. I got a whole new problem when I post bail.
kujan		So why play into his hands? We can protect you.
verbal		Gee, thanks, Dave. Bang-up job so far. Extortion, coercion. You'll pardon me if I ask you to kiss my pucker. The same fuckers that rounded us up and sank us into this mess are telling me They'll bail me out? Fuck you. You think you can catch Keyser Soze? You think a guy like that comes this close to getting fingered and sticks his head out? If he comes up for anything, it will be to get rid of me.  After that, my guess is you'll never hear from him again.
bodi		 <<And what about the hair? You said something earlier about it.>>
kovash		<<It is longer than that. And not so dark. >>
kovash		<<Don't be stupid.>>
bodi		 He says the hair is longer and lighter.
73		73   EXT. BEACH - DAY
75		75 INT RABIN'S OFFICE
verbal		That was how I ended up in a barber shop quartet in Skokie, Illinois.
kujan		This is totally irrelevant.
verbal		Oh, but it's not. If I hadn't been nailed in Illinois for running a three card monte in between sets, I never would have took off for New York. I never would have met Keaton, see. That barber shop quartet was the reason for everything.
kujan		Can we just get back to Kobayashi?
verbal		The quartet is part of the bit about Kobayashi. The quartet was in my file, along with every other thing I had done since high school, see? Aliases, middle- men. They knew me better than I did. They knew all of us.
kujan		You're stalling, Verbal.
verbal		Give a guy a break, huh?
kujan		What happened?
kujan		Then what?
verbal		McManus was furious. He was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of shit. That night we got the call.
kujan		What call?
verbal		Kobayashi told us where we could find Fenster.
keaton		I'm sorry, McManus.
keaton		No time.
keaton		No shovel.
hockney		This is nuts.
hockney		This is fucking dry sand, man. When he rots, the surfers'll smell him from a hundred yards out.
hockney		Keaton, we gotta go. They're gonna find him.
keaton		Dig.
verbal		What are we gonna do?
hockney		I can run. I got no problem with that.
keaton		They don't seem to have a problem with it either.
hockney		This ain't my boy we're burying. I don't owe anybody.
hockney		Since when?
hockney		Fuck that.
keaton		IT'S NOT PAYBACK. I don't answer to you.                   + It's precaution. You want payback? You want to run? I don't care. I'm going to finish this thing. Not for Fenster, not for anybody else, but for me. This Kobayashi cocksucker isn't going to stand over me.  All of you can go to hell.
kujan		And after they killed Fenster nobody would run?
verbal		I wanted to. I thought we could make it.
kujan		Why didn't you say anything?
verbal		I tried, believe me, but Keaton wouldn't have it. It was too far-fetched for him. Keaton was a grounded guy. An ex-cop. To a cop, the explanation is never that complicated. It's always simple. There's
87.		VERBAL  no mystery on the street, no arch- criminal behind it all. If you got a dead guy and you think his brother did it, you're going to find out you're right. Nobody argued with Keaton. They just set their minds on whacking Kobayashi.
80		80   INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY
hockney		He's coming up.
81		81   INT. HALLWAY - FORTIETH FLOOR
83f		83 SCENE DELETED
84		84 SCENE DELETED
85		85 SCENE DELETED
86		86 INT. HALLWAY
87		87 SCENE DELETED
88		88 SCENE DELETED  PINK 06/07/94 
89		89    INT. LOBBY
keaton		The answer is no.
kobayashi		Mr. Soze will be most -
keaton		Listen to me, cocksucker. There is no Keyser Sate. If you say his name again, I'11 kill you right here.
kobayashi		A strange threat. I can only assume you're here to kill me anyway. Pity about Mr. Redfoot.
kobayashi		Ahh, Mr. Hockney. Do join us.
keaton		We know you can get to us, and now you know we can get to you. I'm offering you the chance to call this off.
kobayashi		Mr. So- My employer has made up his mind. He does not change it.
keaton		Neither do we.
kobayashi		I believe you, Mr. McManus. I quite sincerely do. You would not have been chosen if you were not so capable, but I cannot make this decision. Whatever you can threaten me with is... ludicrous in comparison to what will be done to me if
kobayashi		I am sorry, Mr. McManus.  f implore you to believe me, Mr. Keaton. Mr. Soze is very real and very                             + determined.
keaton		We'll see.
kobayashi		Before you do me in, you will let me finish my business with Ms. Finneran first, won't you?
keaton		What did you say?
kobayashi		Edie Finneran. She is upstairs in my office for an extradition deposition. I requested she be put on the case personally. She flew out yesterday.
keaton		You're lying.
kobayashi		Am I? 92 92    INT. HALLWAY - FIFTIETH FLOOR
92.		 They come to a glass office foyer. Kobayashi gestures and everyone looks through the glass into the lobby beyond.  EDIE FINNERAN is talking casually with the receptionist.
kobayashi		Ms. Finneran's escort in Los Angeles. Never leaves her for a moment. I thought you'd like to know she was in good hands.
kobayashi		I'11 take care of the dead men downstairs. We'll add them to the cost of Mr. Fenster. Now if you'll excuse me.
93.		Kobayashi smiles over her shoulder at Keaton. All the while, the bodyguard watches Keaton. He nods politely before Keaton and the others leave. Verbal watches for a moment more and follows.
keaton		It's a logistical nightmare. Close quarters, no advance layout, ten men, maybe twenty.
hockney		Can we stealth these guys?
keaton		Doubtful. With all that coke, they'll be ready - which brings me to sunny spot number two. Even if one of us gets through and jacks the boat, we get nothing.
keaton		Ten more men at least. In my opinion, it can't be done. Anyone who walks into this won't come out alive.
hockney		Me too.
verbal		Did you hear what he just said?
hockney		If I'm going in, I want a stake.
verbal		I just can't believe we're just gonna walk into certain death.
pause		They all suddenly realize the weight of their situation. FINALLY: McMANUS News said it's raining in New York.
verbal		What-are they speaking?
keaton		Russian, I think. I don't know.
verbal		Hungarian?
keaton		Knock it off.
keaton		 Everyone shut up. I'm ready. McManus, you better be set up in ten seconds.
keaton		 I want you to stay here. Understand?
keaton		If we don't make it out, I want you to take the money and go.
verbal		 Keaton, I can't just -
keaton		I want you to find Edie. Both of you find some place safe. Tell her what happened - Everything. She knows people. She'll know what to do. If we can't get Kobayashi my way, she'll get him her way.
verbal		What if I
keaton		Just do what I tell you.
97.		 spies Keaton. He pulls his head back and sticks out the barrel of the rifle.  Keaton comes to a stop about twenty feet from fifteen men all together.  103  EXT. BOATHOUSE - ROOF                                               103' McMANUS'S P.O.V. McManus stares through the scope of his rifle at the scene. The cross-hairs breeze past Keaton and find a target. A man in a suit.  McMANUS Pow.  He moves to another and then another, picking up speed and mock-shooting the men. He is steady and quick. It is clear he could take all fifteen in a few seconds.  McMANUS  Pow-pow-pow-pow-pow-pow . Oswald was a fag.  104  EXT. DOCK                                                           104'
99.		113   EXT. DOCK                                                            113f Hockney is firing in all directions. SUDDENLY, he realizes no one is left on the dock.  PAUSE  FINALLY, he turns and runs back for the van parked on the pier above. He finds a ramp leading from the dock to the pier.  At the van, he finds the one man who has stayed behind to protect it.                                 I                       i  The man hears Hockney coming and raises his gun. Hockney runs       i straight at him, screaming frantically.                             i  HOCKNEY  <<DON'T SHOOT, DON'T SHOOT. LET'S GET THE                 + FUCK OUT OF HERE. EVERYONE IS DEAD.>>  BOOM                                                                i  He shoots the man point blank in the face and runs over his body as it falls.  He gets to the back door of the van and yanks it open.  The inside is stacked with large wooden crates.  114   INT. VAN                                                             114  Hockney, suddenly oblivious to the sound of gunfire, opens one of the crates and looks inside.  IT IS FILLED WITH MONEY. Cash and negotiable bonds of all kinds.  He smiles. BOOM BLOOD sprays all over the money. Hockney looks at it, puzzled.  Hockney raises a blood-soaked hand from his belly. He turns and stares in horror.  YELLOW 06/11/94
99a.		 BOOM - Another shot takes off the top of his head.  115  EXT. PIER                                                            115  McManus runs like a wild man across the deck, heading for the hatch .  He shoots in all directions as though he has eyes in the back of his head. He sees Keaton climbing onto the deck of the boat.  YELLOW 06/11/34
kujan		Why didn't you run?
verbal		I froze up. I thought about Fenster and how he looked when we buried him, then I thought about Keaton. It looked like he might pull it off.  A KNOCK ON THE DOOR.  Rabin steps in and motions for Kujan to come outside.
122'		122  INT.HALLWAY
baer		A boy came across a body on the beach this morning. Thrown clear when the boat burned. Shot once in the head. Two guys from the F.B.I. just identified him.                     +
kujan		And ?
rabin		His name was Arturo Marquez. A petty smuggler out of Argentina. He was arrested in New York last year for trafficking. He escaped to California and got picked up in Long Beach. They were setting up his extradition when he escaped again. Get this - Edie Finneran was called in to advise the proceedings.
kujan		Kobayashi.
rab in		I called New York County and they fared me a copy of Marquez's testimony. He was a rat.
kujan		A big fucking rat.
kujan		Keyser Soze
baer		There's more.
kujan		There was no dope on that boat.
125		125  INT. CORRIDOR
keaton		What happened to you?
keaton		What?
keaton		Are you alright?
keaton		There's no coke.
keaton		Right behind you.
keaton		Where's Hockney?
keaton		I can't remember which way.
132		132   EXT. DECK
106a.		 >From where he stands, he can just make out the figure of a TAU, THIN MAN walking along the edge of the deck. He moves quietly and calmly in the shadows towards the crane, looking out of place in his expensive suit.  YELLOW 06/11/94
verbal		Wait a minute.
kujan		 I don't have a minute. Are you saying it was Keyser Soze? You told the D.A. you didn't know who it was.
verbal		I - there had to be dope there.  BLUE 06/01/94
kujan		Don't shine me, Verbal. No more stalling. You know what I'm getting at.
verbal		I don't.
kujan		YES YOU DO. YOU KNOW WHAT I'M GETTING AT. THE TRUTH. TRY TO TELL ME YOU DIDN'T KNOW. TRY TO TELL ME YOU SAW SOMEONE KILL KEATON .
verbal		I don't know what you're talking about.
kujan		YOU KNOW. YOU'VE KNOWN THIS WHOLE FUCKING TIME. GIVE IT TO ME.
verbal		I don't understand what you're saying. I saw Keaton get shot, I swear to you.
kujan		Then why didn't you help him?
verbal		I WAS AFRAID, OKAY? Somehow, I was sure it was Keyser Soze at that point. I couldn't bring myself to raise my gun to him.
kujan		But Keaton...
verbal		It was Keyser Soze, Agent Kujan. I mean the Devil himself. How do you shoot the Devil in the back?
yellow 06/11/94		109. Verbal holds up a shaking, twisted hand. VERBAL  What if you miss?
yellow 06/11/94		109A. MOVE FURTHER, SLOWER, INTO THE DARKNESS. Voices yelling. New light flickering in the surrounding darkness.
blue 06/01/94		110. 141 INT. RABIN'S OFFICE - DAY - PRESENT                               141 KUJAN Arturo Marquez. Ever hear of him?
verbal		Wha- No.
kujan		He was a stool pigeon for the Justice Department. He swore out a statement to Federal Marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one Keyser Soze and had intimate knowledge of his business, including, but not exclusive to, drug trafficking and murder.
verbal		I never heard of him.
kujan		His own people were selling him to a gang of Hungarians. Most likely the same Hungarians that Sate all but wiped out back in Turkey. The money wasn't there for dope. The Hungarians were going to buy the one guy that could finger Soze for them.
verbal		I said I never heard of him.
kujan		But Keaton had. Edie Finneran was his extradition advisor. She knew who he was and what he knew.
verbal		I don't
kujan		There were no drugs on that boat. It was a hit. A suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger Keyser Soze so Sate had a few thieves put to it. Men he knew he could march into certain death.
verbal		But how - wait. You're saying SOZE sent                  t us to kill someone?
kujan		I'm saying Keaton did.
verbal		He wanted me to live.
kujan		Why did he want you to live? A one-time dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless rat-cripple? No, sir. Why'
verbal		Edie.
kujan		I don't buy that reform story for a minute. And even if I did, I certainly don't believe he would send you to protect her. So why?
verbal		Because he was my friend.
kujan		No, Verbal. You weren't friends. Keaton didn't have friends. He saved you because he wanted it that way. It was his will.
verbal		No...
kujan		Keaton was Keyser Soze
verbal		NO.
kujan		The kind of guy who could wrangle the wills of men like Hockney and McManus. The kind of man who could engineer a police line-up from all his years of contacts in N.Y.P.D.
verbal		NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
kujan		THE KIND OF MAN THAT COULD HAVE KILLED EDIE FINNERAN.
verbal		Edie...
kujan		He used all of you to get him on that boat. He couldn't get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man. The one man that could identify him.
verbal		This is all bullshit.
kujan		He left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead. You saw him die, right? Or did you? You had to hide when the first police cars showed up. You heard the shot, just before the fire but you didn't see him die.
verbal		I knew him. He would never -
kujan		He programmed you to tell us just what he wanted you to. Customs has been
113.		KUJAN  investigating him for years. He knew we were close. You said it yourself. Where is the political pressure coming from? Why are you being protected? It's Keaton making sure you tell us what you're supposed to. Immunity is your reward.
verbal		BUT WHY ME? WHY NOT HOCKNEY OR FENSTER OR McMANUS? I'm a cripple. I'm stupid. Why me?
kujan		Because you're a cripple, Verbal. Because you're stupid. Because you were weaker than them. Because you couldn't see far enough into him to know the truth.
verbal		 It was all Keaton. We followed him from the beginning.
kujan		Why lie about everything else, then?
verbal		You know what it's like, Agent Kujan, to know you'll never be good? Not good like you. You got good all fucked around. I mean a stand up guy. I grew up knowing I was never going to be good at anything 'cause I was a cripple. Shit, I wasn't
114.		VERBAL 
kujan		You're not safe on your own.
verbal		You think he's..?
kujan		Is he Keyser Soze I don't know, Verbal. It seems to me that Keyser Sate is a shield. Like you said, a spook story, but I know Keaton - and someone out there is pulling strings for you. Stay here and let us protect you.
verbal		I'm not bait. No way. I post today.
kujan		You posted twenty minutes ago. Captain Leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p., unless you turn state's.
verbal		I'11 take my chances, thank you. It's tougher to buy the cheapest bag-man than it is to buy a cop.
kujan		Where are you going to go, Verbal? You gonna run? Turn states evidence. You might never see trial. If somebody wants to get you, you know They'll get you out there.
verbal		Maybe so, but I'm no rat, Agent Kujan. You tricked me, that's all. I won't keep my mouth shut 'cause I'm scared. I'11 keep it shut 'cause I let Keaton down by getting caught - Edie Finneran too. And if they kill me, it's
115.		VERBAL  because They'll hear I dropped dime. They'll probably hear it from you.
cop		One watch: gold. One cigarette lighter: gold. One wallet: brown. One pack of cigarettes.
blue 06/01/94		116. 146   INT. RABIN'S OFFICE                                                 146 Kujan stares solemnly at the bulletin board, drinking from Rabin's coffee cup. Rabin sits at the desk, sifting through the mound of gapers as though considering organizing them once and for all.
rab in		You still don't know shit.
kujan		I know what I wanted to know about Keaton.
rab in		Which is shit.
kujan		No matter. He'll have to know how close we came.
rab in		Keyser Sate or not, if Keaton's alive he'll never come up again.
kujan		I'11 find him.
rab in		Waste of time.
kujan		 A rumor is not a rumor that doesn't die.
rab in		What?
kujan		Nothing. Something I - forget it.
rab in		Yeah. It's got it's own system though. It all makes sense when you look at it right. You just have to step back from
117.		RABIN  it, you know? You should see my garage, now that's a horror show...
yellow 06/11/94		118. It reads: QUARTET - SKOKIE, ILLINOIS Kujan's eyes flash all' over the bulletin board. He finds a picture of Rabin in the far corner. He stands beside a scale in fishing gear. He proudly holds a hand out to his freshly caught marlin. His eyes skim quickly over and stop on an eight and a half by eleven inch fax sheet of what must be a THREE HUNDRED POUND BLACK MAN. Kujan glazes over his name, it is irrelevant. His aliases stand out.
kujan		WHERE IS HE? DID YOU SEE HIM?                             t
cop		The Cripple? He went that way.
118a.		 The cog gestures towards the door.  Kujan runs outside looking around frantically.  153 SCENE DELETED                                                       153'  YELLOW 06/11/94
****Dialogues from script :V_for_Vendetta.txt****

dascombe		The time has come, London, to return to a bygone age, an age of tradition, an age of values that have been disparaged and all but forgotten.  What this country needs is a leader!  A true leader to remind us of that age.  A righteous leader with the strength of his moral convictions to do what must be done.  I give you that man!  I give you our leader!  Adam Susan!
little evey		Mommy?
mother		My daughter!  Don't take my daughter!
father		Evey!  Evey!
little evey		Mommy!  Daddy!
evey		Excuse me?  Uh... excuse me, Mister?
evey		Would you like... uh, would you like to sleep with me?
evey		I mean, for money.
man		That is the clumsiest bit of propositioning I've ever heard.
evey		Oh god, I'm sorry.
man		Is this your first time, darling?
evey		Yes, no, I mean for money.  But I know what you want and I'll do it.
evey		Anything you want, mister.  Please, I need the money.  I know I'm young but I promise I know what I'm doing.
man		No.  You don't know what you're doing.
evey		Christ, you're a Fingerman.
fingerman 1		Give the little lady a prize.
fingerman 2		I've got something to give her.
fingerman 1		Prostitution is a class H offense. Know what that means?  It means that we get to exercise our own judicial discretion --
fingerman 2		And you get to swallow it.
evey		Oh god, please.  It's my first time.  Please don't hurt me.
fingerman 1		Gosh, fellas, look at those big innocent eyes.  What do you think?
fingerman 3		Spare the rod, spoil the child.
evey		Oh no!
evey		Please, don't!
fingerman 3		You heard the man, sweetie.  This rod's for your own good.
fingerman 3		What the hell --
fingerman 1		We're police officers, pal.
fingerman 4		We're with the Finger.
fingerman 3		So bugger off!
fingerman 1		He's got a knife!
fingerman 3		Jesus Christ!  Don't hurt me!
evey		Who -- Who are you?
evey		Evey.
evey		Why did you do that?  Why did you... help me?
evey		For what?
evey		Music?
evey		Is that why you're wearing a mask?
evey		Uh... November fourth.
evey		I don't know.
evey		To your music?
evey		I can't hear anything.
evey		Oh my...
evey		It's beautiful...
leader		Gentlemen, I will hear your reports now.  Mr. Heyer, speak for the Eye.
conrad		We have less than two minutes of usable footage, Leader.  It took the suspect less than a minute to dispatch the Finger's vice patrol.
conrad		As you can see, the suspect's reflex speed is extraordinary.  As is his strength.
leader		Freeze it!
conrad		I'm afraid the mask makes retinal identification impossible.
leader		Mr. Etheridge, report for the Ear!
etheridge		We were able to triangulate the origin of the fireworks.  We also are currently monitoring a lot of phone surveillance indicating a high percentage of conversation concerned with the explosions.  All suspect or significant transcripts are being forwarded to Mr. Almond.
leader		Very good.  Mr. Finch, speak for the Nose.
finch		Thanks to Etheridge, we found the launch for the fireworks.  These appear to be individually weighted flares and we have found traces of the same chemicals at both of the detonation sites which leads us to conclude that, despite a level of sophistication, these devices are all home-made with over the counter chemicals, making them impossible to trace.  Whoever he is, Leader, he's good.
leader		Thank you for that professional annotation.
leader		Very good.  Gentlemen, keep me informed of any further developments.  England prevails.
leader		Mr. Almond, do you know what this is behind me?
almond		Uh... the Fate computer system, sir?
leader		No.  No sir.  It's more than that. This, this computer is a symbol, Mr. Almond.  A symbol of the highest attainable goal of mankind. Do you know what that goal is, Mr. Almond?
leader		Control, Mr. Almond!  Control!  The world around us is a changing, directionless, amoral morass and it is up to man and man alone to set things right!
leader		Without control, man is nothing more than any other stinking, sweating, brute animal.  Control, Mr. Almond.  The control that we have painstakingly built up over the last ten years.  Now, do you understand what happened last night?
almond		We... lost control.
leader		Yes, Mr. Almond.  Last night someone did the unthinkable. Someone hurt us.  It is imperative that we act swiftly and precisely. I want that man found, Mr. Almond. I want his head or, by god, I'll have yours.
evey		Wait.  I've lost you.
evey		Oh...
evey		A jukebox?  Where did you get it?
evey		Oh, it's beautiful.  I've never heard anything like it.
evey		This place is amazing.
evey		Stay here... with you?
evey		I... I don't even know your name.
evey		V?  V... I like that.
prothero		Good morning, London.  This is the voice of Fate -- Damn.
prothero		Good morning -- ack.  Good morning Lond-- Goddammit!  Where is my bloody tea?!
dascombe		Would someone get his lordship his bloody tea?
dascombe		Lewis, they want this report on the first hour --
prothero		I know.  I know.  Damned inconvenient this entire affair. Fine.  Let's try again.
prothero		Good morning, London.  It is 6 am, the fifth of November 2019 and this is the voice of Fate.  The new day brings good news and bright prospects from overseas, where negotiations with New China are moving in a positive direction. Last night's scheduled demolition of two deteriorating landmarks went off without a hitch.
prothero		Spokesman for the Interior ministry said both structures were severely damaged and judged to be a danger to the unsuspecting public.  Plans for new landmarks are well underway.
prothero		Do you believe this crap, Dascombe?
dascombe		It's not our job to believe it, Lewis.  Our job is to tell the people --
prothero		"Exactly what they tell us."  I Know but do you think that people will believe it?
dascombe		They will if it's you that's telling it to them.  Now let's try it again.
prothero		"Remember, remember, the fifth of November..."
prothero		Do you suppose that's why he did it?
bodyguard 1		Sir, who did what, sir?
prothero		Guy Fawkes.  He tried to blow up Parliament.
prothero		Don't they teach history in school anymore?
bodyguard 1		Sir, we're both straight military, sir.
bodyguard 2		Sir, yes, sir.  I was fighting in Ireland by the time I was sixteen.
prothero		Yes, of course.  My mistake.
prothero		I love trains.  I remember riding the underground with my father. Shame they shut them all down.
bodyguard 1		What the hell's that!
bodyguard 1		I thought I saw a man jumping onto the train.
bodyguard 2		The train's doing almost seventy. It would break his legs.
bodyguard 1		You're right, I... It must have been rags.
prothero		Get off of me!
bodyguard 2		What the fuck is going on?
bodyguard 1		Lock the car doors.
prothero		I have a lighter... somewhere...
bodyguard 2		I can't find the lock -- wait.  Hey wha--
bodyguard 1		What's happening --
prothero		I found it!
prothero		Oh god.
prothero		Who are you?  What do you want? Money?  Is that it?
prothero		Wait, wait.  You're, you're the one that blew the Bailey.
prothero		You're making a mistake.  I'm nobody --
prothero		Oh god, what do you want?
prothero		What -- What did you call me?
prothero		I don't know what you're talking about.
prothero		Her.
prothero		You.
prothero		You!  You're him, aren't you?
prothero		Oh my god!  What are you going to do?
prothero		Oh no, no!  Please I was just doing what I was told!
prothero		Please, don't make me do this...
prothero		I'll see you in hell.
train man		This door's locked!
train man		Holy Christ!
train man		What happened here?
train man		Good lord!  I need a medic here.
prothero		Fi... Fi... Fi...
prothero		Five.
prothero		Room five.
dominic		What do you make of this, Mr. Finch?
finch		Hmm.  It's a rose.  A violet carson, I believe.  Strange.
dominic		Strange?
finch		I didn't think they still existed.
soldier		Mr. Finch!  Sir!
soldier		Sir, they want you at headquarters, sir.
finch		Now?
soldier		Yes, sir.  I'm to transport you immediately.
finch		Send the rose to the lab.  Also, scrape a sample of this paint and have it analyzed as well.  I'll be back as soon as I can.
leader		Ah, Mr. Finch.  I sent for you because what I have to say cannot be said over a phone or a radio. What I have to say cannot leave these four walls.  Do I make myself clear?
finch		Yes, sir.
leader		I believe in a few things, Mr. Finch.  I believe in god.  I believe in the destiny of the Nordic race.  And I believe in fascism.  The romans invented fascism.  They had a symbol for it; a bundle of twigs bound together. One twig could be broken but a bundle would prevail.  That is the heart and soul of fascism. Strength in unity.  I tell you these things knowing full well that they make you uncomfortable.
finch		Well, I...
leader		You have in fact expressed your discomfort in several arrest reports, arrests that were, in your opinion, "unnecessary."  The fact that you are here, that you are not rotting in a prison cell, is a mark of my respect and admiration for you, for your craft, and for what you have done for this country.
leader		It is also because I know you, Finch.  I know what you are. You're a man like me.  A man who understands when they are given a job what must be done.  I understand you, Finch, and that is why I can trust you.
leader		This terrorist knows us, Finch. These attacks are perfectly calculated and they are divisive. He knows what he's doing, Finch. He knows us all too well.
finch		You think he's an insider?
leader		What I think is that this man must be stopped.  Stopped at all costs and no one, I repeat, no one is to be placed above suspicion.  Do I make myself clear?
finch		Perfectly.
leader		England prevails, Mr. Finch.
finch		England prevails.
evey		V, v, v, v, v.
evey		Oh, V, you scared me.
evey		I was reading the inscription. What is it?
evey		Yes, I suppose you have.  This place is the only universe I have right now.
evey		I don't know.  I'm so grateful to you -- I just feel I should help you, you know, the way you're helping me.  I mean, that's the deal, isn't it?
evey		I think I do.  Part of me wants to stay here forever and never have to face what's going on outside.  But that's not right.  Is it?  That's not taking responsibility.  Not conquering my universe.
evey		I want to help you, V.  I want to do something.  Can we make a deal?
evey		Good.  That's that, then.
evey		V, you said that Latin thing was a quote.  Who said it?
conrad		Hello, Rosemary.  Derek, how --
helen		Derek!
helen		Darling, how are you?  Hello, Rosemary.
rosemary		Hello.
derek		It's so good to see you.  Since this bloody terrorist business, the old man has me literally chained to the office.
helen		Oh, you poor dear.
derek		It comes with the job.  How are things in the Eye, Conrad?
conrad		Well, we've been working some bugs out of the new Mark IX fiber optic network, actually --
helen		Oh, Conrad, don't be such a bloody bore.  Do tell us about the terrorist, Derek.  Is it true he blew up Big Ben and the old Bailey?
derek		I'm afraid so.  We're dealing with a pathological psychotic in the most extreme case.  We'll catch him though.  I promise.
helen		Oh, it sounds dreadfully exciting. Aren't you glad you've got such a ruthless, implacable brute for a husband, Rosemary?
rosemary		Yes, well --
helen		Believe me, you're lucky.  You could be struck with a professional peeping tom like Conrad.  England's highest paid voyeur, aren't you darling?
conrad		Helen, I think we'd better --
helen		Oh yes, of course.  We have to get back so the little pervert can watch what the neighbors do after Sunday lunch.  He's so exciting.
helen		Ciao!
derek		Goodbye, Helen.  Conrad.
rosemary		She's a bit hard on him, isn't she?
derek		Until you're half the woman of Helen's sophistication, I'd keep your little mouth shut.
derek		Really, just look at the way you dress.
lilliman		Ah, there they go.  My happy and contented flock.  Spiritually refreshed and ready to face the world again.
lilliman		Did you enjoy the sermon today, Dennis?
dennis		Very inspiring, your grace.  Though the segue of the forces of Satan among us did strike me as a bit of a curious digression.
lilliman		Hmm, yes.  A trifle purple, I thought.  Still, Fate wanted it included and who are we to question the will of the almighty, miserable sinners that we are?
lilliman		And speaking of sin, I wonder which of the seven deadlies the good lord will see fit to tempt me with today.
dennis		Perhaps pride, your grace.
lilliman		I was thinking of something a little less ethereal.  Has the young lady arrived?
dennis		The agency informed me she'll be here directly.  However, there was a mixup.  It's not one of the usual girls.  She's a little older.
lilliman		Oh dear.  Oh dear.  Not too old, I trust?
dennis		They promise me she's no more than fifteen.
lilliman		Fifteen, hmm.
lilliman		Ah well, if Job could bear his disappointments, I suppose I must have the good grace to bear mine. Show her in when she arrives.
dennis		Yes, your grace.
dennis		The young lady, your grace.
lilliman		Oh my!
lilliman		And to think I doubted your loveliness for even an instant. Mea culpa, my child, mea culpa. You are a vision.  An angel.
evey		Uh... thank you.
lilliman		Of course, "hate the sin, love the sinner."  I always say.  Take your dress off, please.
evey		Listen -- I was kind of hoping --
evey		No --
lilliman		You -- You filthy whore!
lilliman		I'll kill you, you fucking sow.
lilliman		What's this?  Who --
lilliman		Dennis?
evey		V?
evey		V, what are you doing?
evey		Oh no.
evey		You can't kill him!
evey		Oh god, V.  I can't -- I can't --
operator 1		Bloody hell.  Doesn't anybody fuck with feeling anymore?
operator 2		Hey, it's Sunday.  Children's hour over at the Abbey.
operator 1		Let's see what that filthy old pervert is up to.
operator 1		What the --
voice 1		... And I saw a black shape against the flames.  Oh god.  It's you. The man from room five.  You've come --
voice 2		To collect what's mine.
voice 1		I beg you!  I don't want to die! Please have mercy!
operator 1		Get me the Finger.  This is an emergency!
dominic		No prints yet, sir.  Just like Prothero.
finch		I want those tapes from the Ear in my office tonight, Dominic.
dominic		Yes, sir.  They're on top of it.
finch		Any word from your superior, Mr. Creedy?
creedy		Mr. Almond doesn't seem to be answering his page, sir.  I'm sure he's in the field.
finch		Quite.
helen		There you go, baby.  Now my baby boy can think so much clearer. Can't he?
helen		You have been thinking, haven't you?
helen		I know you have.  Ever since this terrorist appeared.
helen		Oh jesus, that smile.  That smile turns me on like nothing else.
helen		Tell me.  Tell me what's going on in that ruthless sadistic brain of yours.
derek		Everyone is so worried about the terrorist.  Especially Susan.  You know why?  Because nobody knows what he's going to do.
derek		If I were him, I know what I'd do.
derek		I'd blow that fat bastard to kingdom come.
helen		No.  You're kidding.
derek		Am I?
derek		There's an old train line under the New Government Building.  It collapsed when they poured the foundation.  You could haul in enough TNT to launch our Leader's ass all the way to the moon.
helen		You're serious, aren't you?
derek		You need to be careful, Helen. Your mouth is going to get you into trouble one day.
helen		Is that the same trouble you love putting in my mouth?
derek		You never know who might be listening.
helen		I know, Derek.  You love your country and you love your party, just like you love your wife.
helen		Derek.  I'm sorry.  I know I can be a bitch.  But that's why you're here, isn't it?
helen		This is it, isn't it, Derek?  What we've been waiting for.  At last, you'll be rid of Susan.  I'll be rid of Conrad.  And we'll be free. Free, won't we?
dominic		Sorry it took so long.  The boys had a devil of a time trying to filter out the background noise.
finch		Background noise?
dominic		The perpetrator apparently turned on the Bishop's stereo. Subsequently, a great deal of the tape is useless.
finch		What music did he play?
dominic		Beethoven.  The fifth, I believe.
finch		Da, da, da, dum.  That's code. Morse code.
dominic		Sir?
finch		For the letter "V".
finch		Anything on the girl yet?
dominic		No.  The agency said somebody claiming to be Lilliman's valet canceled his Sunday appointment.
finch		What is it?
dominic		23rd Psalm.
dominic		It goes on like that for a while. Fairly incoherent except we could make out a few words in this part. Transubstantiation.
dominic		That miracle business when the wafer transform into the body of Christ.
finch		He made him eat a host.
dominic		Yes, listen to this part.
dominic		There's a couple of funny human noises...
finch		And then just Beethoven's fifth.
finch		We have got the initial path report back.  The host was full of cyanide.
finch		And do you know what?
finch		When it reached his abdomen, it was still cyanide.
delia		Do you have a motive?
delia		I mean, was anything taken?
finch		Just lives.
finch		I know it's too early for your profile but do you have any initial impressions?
delia		Well...
delia		He's incredibly powerful.  This man's sternum was split like dry wood from the base all the way up to the manubrium.
delia		And he's resourceful.  On that table behind you is a breakdown of all the chemicals found in Prothero's blood stream.
finch		Bloody hell.
delia		There were hundreds of different chemicals in him.  From trinitrotoluene to estrogen to motor oil.
finch		Perhaps Fate will make something more of all this.  I certainly can't.
delia		The Leader finally authorized an uplink for you?  He must be getting nervous.
finch		Quite.  Government directed terrorism never sews healthy ideas into the public.  Oh, that reminds me.
finch		Can you tell us anything about this?
finch		We found one in the carriage with Prothero and this one in the Bishop's quarters.  A violet carson.
finch		I heard that strain had died off. Thought a botanist might shed some light on it.  Delia?
delia		Yes -- Yes, of course.
finch		Magic.  I'll drop by tomorrow then.
creedy		What's all this, then, Harper?  I get a radio that a man's down and in need of assistance?
harper		I ain't gone down yet but I sure do need some assistance.
creedy		Are you flat broke already?
lout		How'd you sneak away, Creedy? Almond off buggering that blonde chippy?
harper		The one with the tits?
creedy		What I wouldn't give for a piece of that.
lout		She could serve a tray of drinks on those thingies.
harper		I bet you get your chance with her sooner than later, Creedy, with the way Almond's crackin' up.
lout		Bloody bugger's losing his marbles.
harper		Terrorist or no, if that bastard gives me another double shift, I'll stomp his fucking head.
creedy		Aye.  This nonsense has put a serious strain on my drinking.  I think I was actually sober today.
lout		I'll drink to that.
harper		We need to get a real man of the people in that director's position. Like Creedy here.
creedy		Well, it's good to know when the shit hits the fan who your real friends are.
rosemary		Derek --
derek		I don't want to hear it, Rosemary.
rosemary		Derek, please!  We can't carry on like this.
rosemary		You don't talk to me.  You don't eat with me.  You don't have sex --
derek		I don't have to take any crap from you!  I have that fat bastard riding me all day.  I don't want to listen to you, so shut your fat gob!
derek		And me not wanting to fuck you is obvious.  Take a look at yourself.
derek		Get out of my sight.  I'm cleaning my gun.
dominic		I got it!
finch		A connection?
dominic		Larkhill Resettlement Camp. Prothero's and Lilliman's employment records show they both help positions there at similar times.
finch		What about codename V?
dominic		Most of Larkhill's records were destroyed for security reasons but I did uncover an old standard procedures and operations manual.
dominic		In special case studies, medical research groups used roman numerals to identify test inmates.
finch		Five is the letter V.  Brilliant, Dominic.
finch		All we need is Larkhill's employment records.
delia		Roses.
delia		It's you, isn't it?  You've come to kill me.
delia		Oh thank god.  Thank god.
finch		Oh my god.
finch		Oh bloody hell.
dominic		He's killed them all?  It's not possible.
finch		Oh no.
delia		No, no.  I thought I would be, but I'm not.  I'm --
delia		Relieved.
delia		Oh god, all these years.  All this waiting.  And somehow I always knew you'd come back.
delia		When I saw you that night -- the night you escaped, you were standing against the flames and you looked straight at me.
delia		I knew then that one day you'd come looking for me, that you'd find me.
delia		What -- what happened at Larkhill. What we did -- What I did.  That terrible knowledge, it's been with me so long.  That I could do things like that.
delia		For years, I blamed it on the government, on the authority I could never stand up to.  But living so long with the knowledge of what I did has made me understand otherwise.  I alone was accountable.
delia		There is something wrong with us. With all of mankind.  With me. Something evil that made me enjoy what I did.  Some hideous flaw.
delia		We deserve to be culled.  We deserve it.
rosemary		Derek?  What?
derek		Bang.
derek		Don't worry, Rose.  I didn't load it.
derek		Not tonight.
derek		Almond.  What?!  Where?
derek		Oh god, yes!  God, thank you!
creedy		You look lost.
creedy		Can I buy you a drink?
evey		No... I made a mistake.
evey		I have to find someone.
creedy		Well I didn't like the looks of you anyway --
creedy		Bloody hell!
creedy		It's him!  We got him!
delia		It's funny, I was given one of your roses today.  I wasn't sure you were the terrorist until I saw it.
delia		What a strange coincidence.  That I should be given it today.
delia		Then you are going to kill me now?
delia		Is there any pain?
delia		Thank you.
delia		Can I -- Can I see your face again?
delia		It's beautiful...
derek		Don't move an inch, you bloody bastard.
derek		You didn't hear me arrive, did you? Didn't know we'd rumbled you?
derek		It's all finished, chummy.  All of it.  The old man told me it was my head or yours and what do you know. It's yours.
derek		Because you're standing over there with your bloody stupid knives and your fancy karate gimmicks --
derek		And I've got a gun.
derek		Bang.
derek		Who -- Who are you?
derek		Horrible!  God, it's horrible!
finch		Delia?
finch		Get an ambulance.
evey		Oh no... V?
dominic		I'm sorry, sir.  You knew the doctor pretty well?
dominic		We found this on her bureau, sir. It's Dr. Surridge's journal.  It covers her years at Larkhill.  It might contain the whole story.
prothero		Next.
delia		And napalm.
finch		That's the last entry until six months later when Dr. Surridge is back in London.  There is no mention of the man in room five again.  End of story.
finch		Except that it wasn't the end of the story.
finch		Between 2009 and 2012, over forty men and women who were previously stationed at Larkhill met with what were believed to be accidental deaths.  Eventually, only three remained.
finch		The three he'd been saving until last.
finch		Everyone who worked at Larkhill. Everyone who could have identified him.  You see there are two possible motives here.  Not one.
finch		The first is revenge.  He escapes from Larkhill and vows to get even with his tormentors.  The whole exercise an elaborate, chilling vendetta.
finch		That's the explanation that I find most reassuring, funnily enough. Because that means he's finished. It's over now.
finch		The second motive is more sinister. Like I said, everyone who could have identified him is dead.
finch		What if he's just been clearing the ground?
finch		What if he's planning something else?
finch		You see, the diary we found was in full view.  We didn't have to search for it.  He left it there. He wanted us to find it.  He wanted us to know the story.  Or...
finch		For all we know, the diary could be a complete and utter fake. Codename V could have written it himself.
finch		He's playing games with us.  He might never have been at Larkhill at all.  Do you see?  It could all be another smoke screen, a false trail, another cover story --
leader		Enough!
leader		Mr. Finch, would you please explain to me the nature of this meeting?! Because I was under the impression that you had some information about the terrorist, codename V!
leader		No more questions, understand!  I want answers!  I am not interested in where he grew up, what kind of flowers he likes or his favorite color!
leader		Do I make myself clear?
finch		Yes, Leader.
leader		Dismissed.  England prevails, Mr. Finch.
leader		Mr. Finch, the girl.  Do you have anything on the girl?
finch		No, Leader.  Not yet.
man		Wake up, cow.
guard 1		Tsk.  This pathetic whore is the famous Miss Hammond?
evey		You've made a mistake.
rossiter		Shut up.
evey		Please.  I haven't done anything --
rossiter		I said shut your hole!
interrogator		Do you know why you're here.  Evey Hammond?
evey		No, please, I didn't do anything.
interrogator		Allow me to be more precise.  Did you participate in the murder of Dr. Delia Surridge?
evey		No.
interrogator		Did you participate in the murder of Derek Almond, director of the Finger?
evey		No, I --
interrogator		Did you participate in the murder of Bishop Anthony Lilliman?
evey		Oh god, I don't --
interrogator		Have you ever participated in a terrorist act against your country?
evey		No --
interrogator		What is the identity of codename V?
evey		I don't know.
interrogator		You are a lying cunt.
evey		They were going to rape me, kill me --
rossiter		Shut up.
interrogator		This board will not tolerate any more of your lies, Miss Hammond. We have over 120 minutes of audio and videotape and 75 pages of testimonials from eye witness that identify you as an accomplice to the terrorist, codename V.
interrogator		Do you want to know why you're here?  You are formally being brought up on charges of murder on fourteen counts and sedition against your Leader and country which brings an automatic sentence of death.
evey		Please.  I didn't do anything.
interrogator		Process the prisoner and return her to her cell until she is more cooperative.
interrogator		Enough.
interrogator		Now Miss Hammond, let us review the facts.
interrogator		You work for codename V.  Codename V killed Delia Surridge and then Derek Almond with your help and that is why you were found outside her home.
interrogator		Isn't that what happened, Miss Hammond?
evey		No.  No, that isn't true --
interrogator		Oh dear, Rossiter?
evey		No, wait!
interrogator		"My name is Evey Hammond.  On the 5th of November 2019, I was abducted by the terrorist known as codename V and then taken against my will to an unknown location."
interrogator		"Once there, I was systematically brainwashed by means physical and psychological.  I was frequently subjected to sexual abuse during this period."
interrogator		"Eventually I was terrorized into helping him commit the murders of Derek Almond, Dr. Delia Surridge, and Anthony Lilliman, Bishop of Westminster."
interrogator		"I, the undersigned, swear that the above statement is genuine and that it was not signed by means of intimidation."
interrogator		We'd like you to sign that for us, Miss Hammond.  Where we've put the little cross.
evey		No.
interrogator		As you wish.
interrogator		Escort Miss Hammond back to her cell, Rossiter, where she will wait while you arrange a wet detail of six men.
interrogator		Then take her out behind the chemical sheds and shoot her.
rossiter		It's time, unless you want to change your mind.
rossiter		Sign that statement.  You could be out inside three years.  Perhaps they'd find you a job with the Finger.
evey		Thank you but I'd rather die behind the chemical sheds.
rossiter		Then there's nothing left to threaten you with, is there?  You are free.
evey		What?
evey		You...
evey		You did this... to me.
evey		You did this to me!
evey		You -- You hit me and -- and cut my hair.  It was you.  It was just you all this time.
evey		You tortured me.  You tortured me --
evey		Oh god, why?
evey		Love?
evey		Set me free?  Don't you realize?
evey		Don't you realize what you did to me?  You nearly drove me mad!
evey		I hate you.
evey		I hate you!  Set me free?  You put me in a prison to set me free?!
evey		Shut up!  I don't want to hear it. I wasn't in a prison.  I was happy! I was happy here --
evey		That's warped!  That's evil and it's wrong!  What gives you the right to judge?  Who are you to say what's not good enough?!
evey		Shut up!  You're mad!  I don't want to hear it!
evey		I can't feel anything!  There's nothing left to feel!  Don't you understand?
evey		I don't know what -- Oh god -- I can't breathe --
evey		What are you doing to me?  I can't breathe --
evey		I feel -- I feel like I'm going to burst.
evey		Oh god -- I felt --
evey		Like an angel --
evey		Oh god, V, I'm so scared.  What's happening to me?
evey		The roof?  Outside?
evey		I -- I don't want to be blindfolded.
evey		Everything's so -- different.
dascombe		Finch!
dascombe		Do you know what this is all about?
finch		No, but I can guess.
dascombe		What?
finch		"Remember, remember, the fifth of November."
dascombe		Oh come on.  He's long gone.  He has to be.  He did what he came to do and it's over.
dascombe		Isn't it?
finch		Not for us.
leader		I have given you almost a year and you have given me nothing. Nothing!
dascombe		Now Adam, there is no one better than Finch and you know it.
leader		Yes, Mr. Dascombe, I do know it. It is that very fact that keeps me awake at night, wondering if perhaps there is a reason that Mr. Finch has failed.
finch		What are you saying?
leader		I'm saying that perhaps I don't know you as well as I thought I did.
finch		Are you asking for my resignation?
leader		No, I am asking for some goddamn results!
dascombe		It's not Finch's fault, Adam.
conrad		We've all been looking.  The man simply disappeared.
etheridge		Vanished.
dascombe		He's gone, Adam.  It's over.
leader		It's over, is it?  He's gone. Vanished, you say?
leader		Transcripts recorded over the last thirty days in which the terrorist was talked about or mentioned in a positive context.  This is only thirty days!
leader		Is this what you consider, "disappeared?"
dascombe		For god's sake, Adam, it's a stupid variety show.
leader		Mr. Creedy, I want the producers, writers, and actors of that "stupid variety show" arrested and charged with sedition.
creedy		Yes, sir.
dascombe		You can't be serious --
leader		Push me, Roger, push me and you'll find out how serious I am.
leader		This, this V is still out there.  I can feel him like a sickness worming its way into the hearts and minds of the public.  Something must be done, and done quickly, to exorcise this demon for the very soul of this country is at stake.
leader		That is why I am compelled to give each and every one of you notice that if by the fifth of November you are still giving me nothing more than excuses, I will have to revoke your party status and terminate your positions.
leader		Mr. Creedy, I will speak with you in private.  The rest of you are dismissed.  England prevails.
leader		Mr. Creedy, as the new head of the Finger, you are the most important member of my cabinet.
creedy		I, uh, appreciate your faith in me.
leader		Your predecessor, Mr. Almond, was a good man, a man who understood what strength in unity meant, a man who, above all, loved his country.  I need to know if you are such a man.
leader		Do you love your country, Mr. Creedy?
creedy		Oh god, yes!
helen		"The most important member of my cabinet."  Yes it is, isn't it, dear?
creedy		Oh, don't stop.
helen		I stop when you stop.  What did he say next?
creedy		I can't --
helen		Come on, Peter, what are you afraid of?  Almond used to tell me everything and you're twice the man he was.
creedy		He asked me... if I loved my country.
helen		Oh yes, I can tell you do love your country, almost as much as you love this...
creedy		Oh god...
helen		Go on.
creedy		Then he asked me to do something... oh, oh...
helen		What?
creedy		Helen, I can't.  I can't tell you.
helen		He told you to frame someone as the terrorist.
creedy		My god?!  How did you know that?
helen		I know Adam Susan.  Now who was it?
creedy		No way.  I can't tell you that.
helen		Yes you can, honey.  You can and you will.  You have to trust me, love.  We're going to help each other.
creedy		Helen, please.
helen		Look at that face.  You see? You're just bursting to tell me.
helen		Now who was it?
creedy		It was... Fi... Fi... FINCH!
evey		That was beautiful.
evey		I've wanted to do this for a long time.
evey		Thank you, V.  Thank you for everything you've done for me.
evey		It was a good backdrop.  I believed it.  I really did.  It's still a bit hard for me to accept that it wasn't real.  That it was just you. Especially the letter.
evey		It is a beautiful letter, V.  Every time I read it I could feel Valerie, almost like she was holding me.  I believed in her most of all.  I believed that she loved me and I loved her back.
evey		I feel a bit foolish telling you this.  I know that you must have written it and thought you should have it back.
evey		What?
evey		Valerie?
evey		She's beautiful.
evey		Roses.  You grew them for her.
evey		They're beautiful.
evey		Two days before the first day we met.
evey		You're planning something, aren't you, V?
evey		What are you going to do?
evey		I've never been here before.
evey		Oh, V, it's lovely.  Where on earth did you find it?
evey		What's in these packages?
evey		What are you going to do with all of it?
evey		Where does this train go?
evey		Whitehall... V, that's the New Government Building.
evey		But the underground has been shut down for years.  How are you going to make it run without any power?
leader		Yes, Mr. Creedy?
creedy		Everything's set, sir.  No worries.
leader		When?
creedy		Tonight.
announcer		Tonight on Tales from the Bible, a story of treachery and betrayal from the Book of Daniel.
dascombe		All of London's waiting.  Ready, two.  And here we go --
announcer		Tonight, England's greatest hero repels the forces of darkness in a brand new episode.
heidi		Oh, Storm.  Save me!  Save me!
storm		You mongrel trash, if you harm her!
mongrel trash		Look out, de white debil has a laser lugar!
guard		Hey, what the -- ?
heidi		Oh Storm, hold me.  Hold me tight.
finch		I don't know how you stand that tripe.
dominic		Es gooh.
dominic		Finch?  Finch, what's wrong?
dominic		What the hell?
finch		Don't you see, Dominic?
finch		I'm V.
guard		Bloody hell!
guard		Freeze!
guard		Fuck all.
dominic		Creedy?  What the hell's going on?
creedy		I'm here to arrest Mr. Finch for acts of treason and terrorism.
dominic		You can't be serious.
creedy		If I were you, boy, I'd shut my hole unless you want to start explaining why you didn't say nothing about Mr. Finch's secret identity.
finch		Why don't you just shoot me, Creedy?  Wouldn't that make everything a lot simpler?
creedy		Yeah, I suppose it would.
dominic		Holy Christ!  Creedy, you stupid ape!  If Finch is V then tell me who is that?
creedy		Bloody fuckin' hell.
finch		He has to be at Jordan tower.  Come on!
creedy		Don't just stand there!  Follow them!
leader		Damn you!  Damn you!
leader		Lieutenant, ready my transport.  I want every armed man within a hundred miles at Jordan tower. Now!
mother		Hush.  Turn it up.
leader		I want this man dead!  I want him shot on sight!
captain		Yes, sir.
leader		Who was it?  Who was he?
leader		Roger Dascombe!  Of course.  Of course!  It makes such perfect sense.
captain		Sir, I think there has been a mistake.
leader		No!  There is no mistake!
captain		But sir, there are people that say they saw both the terrorist and Dascombe together --
leader		Who?  Who are these people?  They must be detained immediately. Whatever they saw or whatever they think they saw is subordinate to the truth and that truth is that Roger Dascombe is the terrorist and the terrorist is dead!
finch		But I thought I was the terrorist.
leader		Finch, what are you doing here?
finch		Since I'm not in jail and since you have another, even more convenient suspect.  I'm guessing the charges have been dropped.
leader		Be careful, Finch.
finch		I am careful, sir.  Always.  That is why I suggest that a search of this building begin immediately.
leader		The terrorist is dead!
finch		With all due respect, I disagree and I believe that he is presently trying to get out of this building disguised as one of us.
leader		Are you challenging my authority?
finch		No sir, I'm trying to run an investigation --
leader		I am trying to run a country!  When I tell you, Mr. Finch, the terrorist is dead, then the terrorist is dead!  If you continue to suggest otherwise then you will leave me no choice but to have you arrested on charges of sedition. Do I make myself clear?
leader		Now, it is imperative for the people of London to know that they are safe, that the terrorist is dead and everything is under control.
speakers		The terrorist is dead.  No further threat exists.  Everything is under control.
little girl		Bollocks.
little girl		Bollocks!
little girl		He's not dead!  It's all bollocks!
finch		Play it again.
dominic		Come on, Finch.  We've seen it fifty times.  I mean, after what they done to you, I don't know why we're even trying to stop him.
finch		I don't know.  For twenty seven years, I've been at this job. Twenty seven years, I've done what I've been told to do.  Maybe that's all there is to it.  I'm just a dumb old dog.  A dumb old dog that only knows one trick.
dominic		That ain't it, Finch.  It's more than that.  I know you.  It's something personal with this one.
finch		Maybe.  And maybe I'm not ready for a revolution.
dominic		Well, we got less than thirty hours to stop it.
finch		We will.
dominic		How?
finch		It's on the tape.  I know it.  I can feel it.  He did this for a reason.  He needs something.
dominic		What?
finch		The line of the Queen?
dominic		But what does that mean?
finch		Maybe it's a line from Shakespeare. Or a book.  I don't know.
finch		But right here.  He's talking to someone.  Someone specific. Someone who knows what he wants.
conrad		Helen?  Helen, why did you want that tape?
helen		Shut up, Conrad.  I'm thinking.
helen		How?  How did you know that?
conrad		Know what, my love?
helen		All right.  You have a deal.
helen		Oh no!  Not you.  Conrad.  Not yet. Here you can have a chocolate. Open up.  Open!
helen		Good boy.  As for the rest of the box, perhaps when you're Leader.
helen		Right now I need something else Conrad.  I need you to use that pretty little brain for me.  You know all about the old underground, don't you?
helen		I need to know everything, understand?  Everything.
assistant director		Ready in five, Leader.
assistant director		In four, three...
leader		Good evening London.  As Leader of this great country, I felt it imperative to speak with you and to assure you once and for all that the shadow that recently fell across our land has indeed passed.
woman		Oh, for fuck's sake.
leader		What we have endured this long year was no accident, no mere coincidence.  This was not a simple act of terror conducted by a singular madman.  No, this was a test.
leader		It was not me, nor the Party, nor the government that was threatened this year.  It was our beliefs. Our faith.  I believe that God himself bore witness to our struggle and like Job I believe that we have been vindicated.
drunk		Remember fifth of November!
leader		How do I know this?  Let me read to you where I found the answer, where I so often find the answer.  In the Scripture.  Revelations.
evey		Oh, V, turn it off, please.
evey		What is that, V?
creedy		What about Conrad?
helen		I told you, I'll handle Conrad and V will take care of Susan.  The mob will take care of the guard and then... You can use the Finger to take over.
creedy		Use the Finger?  You mean like this?
helen		Oh... oh... that is vulgar...
creedy		But you like it?
helen		Yes, oh yes, oh you're a pig, Peter...
creedy		That I am, misses.  But I'm the pig that's gonna be running this country.
helen		Yes and I'm... I'm going to be Eva... Oh Eva...
helen		"Don't cry for me Argen... oh Argen... Argen... tina!
finch		Eighteen hours.
finch		Dominic!
finch		Dominic, go home.
dominic		But I've still got over three hundred lines from The Fairy Queen.
finch		Forget it.  There's no more time. You go home and get some rest. You're going to need it tonight.
dominic		He's got us, doesn't he, Finch?
finch		Yes, he does.
helen		Now listen to me, Conrad.  This is the most important moment of our lives.  Everything I've worked and hoped for comes to this.  Susan is a very dangerous man, especially now, that's why I need you, Conrad. I need you to be stronger than him. I need you to be the better man. Understand?
helen		If you do this Conrad, and you do it right, I'm going to turn you from the little man I married into the man of my dreams.
conrad		Oh, Helen.
helen		Not on the lips.
finch		Give it up, old man.  You're not even sure you want to stop him.
finch		Christ!  That's it!  It's got to be it!
leader		His wife?
helen		Leader, I'm terribly sorry but I absolutely must speak with you.
helen		I have something to tell you, something important but --
helen		I can tell you and only you.  In private.
helen		It is a matter of national security.
leader		Now what's this all about, Mrs. Heyer?
helen		Please, forgive me.  I've been so afraid, afraid to come here to talk to you.  I thought he must know.  I was terrified he knew but I had to come because I knew you were the only one that can protect me.
leader		Protect you from what?
leader		Come now, Mrs. Heyer.
helen		You won't let him hurt me, will you?
leader		Let who hurt you?
helen		The terrorist.
leader		The terrorist is dead.
helen		Oh, how I wanted to believe it, Leader, but I know it's not true.
leader		How?
helen		Because I know who the terrorist is.
leader		Who?  Who is it, woman?
helen		It's Conrad, Leader.  Conrad.  My husband is the terrorist.
leader		What?!
leader		How do you know?
helen		I saw him, Leader.  In the middle of the night.  I heard something. I went to the landing and that's when I saw it.
helen		That mask.  That hideous smiling mask.
leader		But how did you know it was Heyer?
helen		I know, Leader.  I know the way a woman knows.
leader		But you have no proof?
helen		Proof?
leader		Yes, proof?  This is an extremely delicate situation, Mrs. Heyer.  It has been reported that the terrorist is dead.  It would be a catastrophe to arrest a man now without concrete, conclusive proof. Do you have any evidence at all?
leader		But if you're right, if Heyer is indeed the terrorist...
helen		Leader!  Wait!
conrad		Is everything all right?  Helen?
leader		Yes, Mr. Heyer, your wife has done her duty to her country.
leader		Don't worry, Mrs. Heyer.  You will be taken care of.  I will launch an immediate investigation and I promise, you will be the first to know when an arrest will be made.
conrad		Investigation of what?
leader		Subversion, Mr. Heyer.  Your wife was privy to the dialogue of subversives.  That's all you need to know at this time.  Lieutenant!
leader		The Heyers are leaving.  I need to see Mr. Creedy at once.
helen		Thank you, sir.
helen		I want you to go straight to your office and wait for me to call. When I do, I want you to come immediately home.  Understood?
conrad		Yes, Helen.
helen		Oh, Conrad, I'm so proud of you.
conrad		I did it, Helen.  I did it, didn't I?
helen		Tonight, Conrad.
conrad		Tonight.
helen		I promise you will never forget tonight.
helen		Goodbye, Conrad.
guard		Mr. Heyer!  Mr. Heyer!
conrad		Yes?
guard		Sir, this package arrived for you, sir.
conrad		Thank you.
finch		Oh my god.
finch		Is the Leader in?
lieutenant		Yes, but he's meeting with the Captain of the Guard.
finch		Perfect.
lieutenant		Mr. Finch, you can't go in --
leader		Mr. Finch?
finch		Leader, I need as many men the Captain can spare and I need them right now.
captain		What for?
finch		To capture codename V.
finch		He's underground.  The old subway. I know exactly what he's going to do.  If we move quickly, we can be there, waiting for him.
finch		Leader, every second we delay...
leader		I'm coming with you.
guard		Sir --
leader		There will be no discussion --
guard		But if Mr. Finch is right --
leader		I am sick to death of this terrorist being everywhere and nowhere!  I will judge whether Mr. Finch is right and I will judge it with my own eyes!  Do I make myself clear, Captain?
captain		Sir, yes, sir!
leader		Is there a problem, Mr. Finch?
finch		No... no sir.
leader		Good.  Captain, mobilize your men.
captain		Sir, yes, sir.
leader		We'll find this bloody bastard and we will finish him.
evey		V?
evey		V, what's going to happen?
evey		Is it going to be violent?
evey		But why?  Why must is be violent?
evey		What is the other face, V?
evey		Yes, V?
evey		Of course.
evey		Tell me.
evey		It would be my pleasure.
evey		All it takes is a little practice.
evey		V?  What are you going to do?
evey		You're coming back though, aren't you?
evey		V, I won't let you leave unless you promise me that you will come back.
evey		Just promise.
leader		Mark my words, Mr. Finch, this man is going to become an example so that every man, woman, and child in this country will remember what happens to those who would ever think to stand against the state.
leader		Captain, I need a gas unit down here with enough nerve gas to fill every rat-hole in these tunnels.
finch		I don't think that will be necessary.
leader		There are over one hundred of the best trained soldiers in this country down here.  Let him come.
leader		Captain, what's happening?
captain		They lost him.
finch		This... this is a mistake.
leader		Don't tell me you're a coward, Mr. Finch.
finch		Leader, we have to get out of here!
leader		This was your idea.
finch		It was a mistake.  This is what he wants.  He knows us, Leader.  He knows us too well.  We have to get out of here before it's too late --
leader		What trick is this?
leader		This is an outrage!  I order you not to listen to this!
leader		Captain, order all your men to fall back and secure this position!
captain		Fall back.  Fall back and secure the central platform.
leader		Any man that disobeys this order will be court marshaled!
leader		Captain!  Captain, where are your men?
leader		Goddammit, I will not tolerate this insubordination!  I want those deserters shot, Captain.
leader		Shot on sight!
captain		You!  You!  Point position.  We're getting out of here!  Now!
leader		Traitors!  You cowards!
leader		I know who you are!  I'll see you hang!  Every last one of you!
leader		Finch?  Finch!  Finch, goddammit, you can't leave me!  Don't leave me!
leader		Damn you!  Damn you!
leader		Conrad?  Is that you?  You're working with Finch, aren't you? And Creedy!  You're all in this together!
leader		Who are you?
leader		Noooo!
finch		Don't move!
leader		Mr. Finch!  Oh god, Mr. Finch!
finch		Drop the knife.
leader		Oh, I knew it, Mr. Finch.  I knew you wouldn't desert me.  You're a good man, Finch.  A damn good man.
finch		No, Mr. Susan.  No, I'm not.  I'm a man who does his job and does what he's told.  For twenty seven years, that's all I've been.
leader		Careful, Mr. Finch.  He's quick as the devil.
finch		I've read Delia's diary over and over all year.  It sickens me but I am unable to judge her.  I am as guilty as she.
leader		Mr. Finch, what are you doing? Shoot him.  Kill the bastard, Finch.
finch		I have no excuse.  I did what I was told to do.
leader		Finch, I order you to shoot him! Finch!
finch		My job was to find you and catch you.  I've done my job.  I've done it for the last time.  I'm tired of it.  I'm tired of it all.
finch		Kill him yourself if you can.
finch		Thank you, V.  And goodbye.
leader		I warned you, Finch, the penalty for treason is death.
leader		Are you ready to die?
leader		Do you really believe you can pick up that knife before I pull this trigger?
helen		Creedy?  Creedy, you dumb bastard, you left your car parked in front.
helen		What did I tell you?  Creedy.
helen		Oh my god.
conrad		Helen...
helen		Conrad!  What have you done?
conrad		I won, Helen.  I did it.  I won. I'm the better man.
conrad		We've been through a bad patch, Helen.  But now, he's gone... There's nothing to come between us...
helen		Don't touch me!  You stupid piece of shit!  You've ruined it!  I had it all planned perfectly and you've ruined it!
helen		I have to get out of here!  I have to get away!
conrad		Helen --
helen		No!  Let go!  Now!
helen		Conrad, damn you!  Let me go!
conrad		No, Helen, you're not leaving me... not this time... not ever.
helen		No, please!  Oh god, no!  Oh god, please help me!
conrad		No one can help us, Helen.  God is dead.
evey		V?
evey		You came back.
evey		V!  V!
evey		Oh god, what happened?
evey		You need a doctor.
evey		No, don't say that!
evey		Yes, they need you, V.
evey		What?
evey		I don't understand.
evey		I promise.
evey		V, you are not going anywhere!
evey		You're not going to die, V!
evey		I won't let you die!
evey		V!
sergeant		Return to your homes!  There is nothing to see!  The terrorist is dead!
evey		I won't let you die.
evey		Goodbye, my love.
evey		They will, my love.  They will.
evey		I have come here tonight to keep a promise.  A promise that is over four hundred years old.  Tonight I am here to give you your freedom!
evey		Since mankind's dawn a handful of oppressors have accepted the responsibility over our lives, responsibility that we should have accepted ourselves.  By doing so, they took our power.  By doing nothing, we gave it away.
evey		Tonight, our world will change. Our leaders will be gone and we must choose what comes next.  A return to the chains of others or lives of our own.  A world of the past or one of the future.
evey		Let us choose carefully, London, and when we do, let us mark well and remember, remember this fifth of November!
evey		Yes, my love.  Yes it is.
****Dialogues from script :Valkyrie.txt****

tresckow		Managing the Fhrer's security must be quite an undertaking.
brandt		 Irregularity is the Fhrer's precaution of choice.
tresckow		I can assure you he's safe here. Relax, Brandt. Enjoy your meal.
tresckow		With my regards to Colonel Stieff.
brandt		Cointreau? You better hope I don't get thirsty on the flight.
tresckow		He's... landed.
aide		What about the...
tresckow		Get me Colonel Brandt...  Colonel? Tresckow... I trust you landed safely... I hate to trouble you but there's been a bit of a mix up. It seems you have the wrong bottles for Colonel Stieff. You... do still have the package?
aide		Do you think he knows?
tresckow		There's only one way to be sure...
olbricht		Oster's been arrested. The Gestapo came for him last night.
tresckow		The Gestapo could have arrested him for anything. Find a replacement.
olbricht		There's no one we can trust. Not in Berlin.
tresckow		Then stop looking in Berlin.
sentry		Your pistol please.
tresckow		I beg your pardon.
brandt		You've come a long way. You must be thirsty.
tresckow		I wonder how the Fhrer, who does not partake, would feel about an officer who did so on duty... Colonel Brandt.
brandt		I took you for another sort, General.
tresckow		And I you.
young lieutenant		Colonel Stauffenberg, sir. A new headquarters has been established at Mezzouna. I'm to take you there.
stauffenberg		Now they tell us to disengage - a day late. No matter how many times we tell Command the reality, they always manage to leave us-
young lieutenant		Colonel, the enemy is less than five kilometers from here. You've done all you can.
stauffenberg		I wonder... Was there even a point in our coming to Tunis?
young lieutenant		To get taken prisoner, it seems.
stauffenberg		STOP. WAIT UNTIL THEY COMMIT.  The men calm when they see the Colonel, trusting him. They turn and watch the formation of planes complete their turn and bear down, gaining speed. Knees tense, some jerking from the natural inclination to flee.  STAUFFENBERG  STAND FAST, I SAID.  They do, despite the menace of the planes' engines growing louder, meaner...
stauffenberg		NOW.
doctor		Mrs. Stauffenberg?
nina		 The Colonel's brother, Berthold.
doctor		Perhaps before you see the Colonel we should go to my office and-
nina		I will see my husband now.
doctor		He's been constant with fever but he refuses any pain killers. The right hand has been amputated above the wrist. He's lost the fourth and fifth fingers on the left. We... couldn't save the left eye.
nina		His ring.
doctor		I don't-
nina		He had a ring on his right hand. Where is it?
doctor		I'm sorry... His hand was amputated in the field... I'm afraid-
nina		Thank you.
berthold		We've lost North Africa.
stauffenberg		I don't know what I ever did with ten.
olbricht		We could use your help.
stauffenberg		I'm a field officer.
olbricht		This war can't be won in the field.
stauffenberg		That's unfortunate for me.
olbricht		You can't honestly believe you'll make a difference on the front-
stauffenberg		I'm a soldier, General. I serve my country.
olbricht		It makes no sense. You opposed Hitler, you opposed the war.
stauffenberg		The people chose otherwise and here we are. Now we have to win. You know what will happen if we don't.
olbricht		If we win, it will still be Hitler's Germany.
stauffenberg		We all took an oath, General.
olbricht		On behalf of the Fhrer.
stauffenberg		I'm a twin, you know.
olbricht		I... I didn't.
stauffenberg		My brother died the day after we were born.
olbricht		I'm sorry.
stauffenberg		I was lying in the desert, covered in blood, sure I was going to die. I tried to think about my wife, my children... But my mind kept drifting to my dead brother. How I would finally be with him. How I would finally be whole again...  He snaps out of his thoughts, holding up his arm.  STAUFFENBERG  This is my reward for what happened to my men. It's all I deserve.  Stauffenberg nonchalantly tosses the medal into a nearby bedpan.
stauffenberg		I don't want the damn th-
doctor		When will you be going back to the front?
stauffenberg		I'm not going to the front. I'm needed in Berlin.
witzleben		...He is not a man, he's a lunatic. He doesn't drink, he doesn't fuck. He has no weakness to exploit, no vice to manipulate. His only passion is complete control. How can you expect to reason with him?
goerdeler		After this most recent failure I'd say we've no other choice.
witzleben		Confront Hitler now and you'll end up with piano wire for a neck-tie. Our only option is the central solution.
goerdeler		He's a man like any other. Flesh and blood. Take him head on and-
tresckow		I'll say this for you, Doctor... You're certainly delusional enough to take Hitler's place.
goerdeler		 When that day comes, I'll be sure to remember you.
tresckow		I doubt you'll remember much of anything.
goerdeler		Dammit, Tresckow-
olbricht		Gentlemen, may I present Colonel Stauffenberg. He's been reassigned to my office at the War Ministry.  Colonel, may I introduce-
stauffenberg		These men need no introduction.
beck		I apologize for this unfortunate... spectacle. On behalf of everyone, welc-
goerdeler		 I haven't welcomed him. Not yet. Where does he stand?
tresckow		For God's sake-
goerdeler		 He's a field officer. He knows the army better than any of us. I want to hear his opinion.
stauffenberg		What makes you think the army will follow you at all?
stauffenberg		With all respect, sir, you put too much faith in your popularity.  All of you do.
goerdeler		Now see here, Colonel-
stauffenberg		You said yourself, I'm a field officer. You all may understand government, but I know the men. A great many of them may hate Hitler, but they all fear him - they fear Himmler, Goebbels, the whole of the Reich. That kind of fear won't just die with Hitler. And as for respect: the army, and the people, respect only one thing. Authority. And if just one man questions that authority, you can lose them all.  They were fooled into following Hitler... How will you fool them - force them - into following you?
children		PAPA.
stauffenberg		 It's a wonderful surprise. Thank you, brother.
children		MAMA, COME DOWN. PAPA IS HERE. PAPA IS HERE. 
berthold		What do you mean you quit?
stauffenberg		I came to join the Resistance, not some sewing circle of discarded generals and politicians.
berthold		Beck is a just and capable man. As for Goerdeler, well, he's popular. He'll make a good Chancellor.
stauffenberg		Like Hitler before him, yes? Lately I have to wonder if Germany is even fit to choose her own destiny.
berthold		You can't blame the people for this. You have to see the beginning of something to know how it'll end. It's no different than a farmer watching the corn grow. One day it's over his head.
stauffenberg		Plenty of people thought-
berthold		The greatest offenders are not the ones who thought better but the ones who sensed better.
stauffenberg		What are you trying to say?
berthold		I seem to remember you telling me about reports from the Ukraine - the SS forcing Jews to dig their own graves. You said then that Hitler should be removed. An officer's duty, you said. What's changed?
stauffenberg		I said senior officers. The only men that can get to him.
berthold		Perhaps it doesn't matter that you succeed.
stauffenberg		Even if they could remove Hitler, they can't hope to seize power. For God's sake, they have no plan.
berthold		Then give them one. Find a way.
stauffenberg		Children, that is far too-
olbricht		We've already considered Valkyrie. It isn't suitable.
stauffenberg		Not as it's currently written.
goerdeler		Excuse me. What is Valkyrie?
tresckow		Operation Valkyrie.
goerdeler		And what use is that to us?
stauffenberg		The orders could be rewritten. A few subtle changes would put those reserve units completely under our command.
olbricht		Yes, of course, but-
stauffenberg		Now what would the High Command do if they thought, say, the SS was staging a coup?
olbricht		They would declare a military state of emergency.
tresckow		And initiate Operation Valkyrie.
stauffenberg		Hitler's   own Reserve Army, using Hitler's   own plan and under our command,   would automatically seize power in   Berlin...
stauffenberg		Precisely. It will seem as though we're fighting for Hitler Government, not against it.
goerdeler		But only if Hitler's dead.
stauffenberg		I'm afraid it's the only way.
goerdeler		I'm disappointed in you, Colonel. I thought a man of your background would appreciate a more-
stauffenberg		I'm a soldier first, an aristocrat second.
goerdeler		Yes, but-
stauffenberg		And you're neither, Doctor. Now if you want to be Chancellor, you'll do as you're told.
beck		 Can this plan be made to work?
tresckow		Rewriting the order is one thing - distributing it is another. A bomb can be disarmed, recovered if it fails. In this case we'd be willfully circulating written evidence of high treason.  It's the best idea we've heard yet.
olbricht		There is one... small problem.
tresckow		 Fromm...
goerdeler		Who is Fromm?
tresckow		Commander of the Home Army. Olbricht can put the reserve troops on alert, but only Fromm can actually initiate Valkyrie.
beck		Can we get to him?
olbricht		He's a careerist pig.
stauffenberg		But one who's gone as high as he can go in Hitler's Army. It's no secret he's not happy about it.
tresckow		Perhaps if we offered him a key position in the new regime he could be made to see the light.
beck		We don't seem to have a choice. Without Fromm there is no Valkyrie.  Get him.
keitel		You're a woman, Fromm. And a fat one at that. I'd have you sent to the front if I didn't think you'd surrender just to be Montgomery's whore.
herber		The... General will see you now.
fromm		What is it you want?
olbricht		I wanted to introduce you to our new man - Colonel Stauffenberg.
fromm		Ah yes - the hero from Africa. I'd offer my hand but you might not give it back.
stauffenberg		I'd say the General's lost more important things this morning.
fromm		About time they put a man with balls in this office. Have a seat.  You too, if you must.
stauffenberg		I am critical of losing the war, General. All wars - as in Africa - are lost through indecision.
fromm		In the field, you mean.
stauffenberg		In Berlin.
fromm		I take it that's why you're here. To make decisions.
stauffenberg		I've made my decision, General. I`m here to help others make theirs.
fromm		They say when there's no clear option, one should do nothing.
stauffenberg		We're at war. We must act. Sometimes... rashly.
fromm		Just what sort of rash action did you have in mind, Colonel?
stauffenberg		That would be a decision for the Supreme Military Commander.
fromm		Supreme Commander, you say.
stauffenberg		Second only to the Chancellor.
fromm		If only I were that man... This war would be going quite differently.
olbricht		We were thinking the very same thing.
fromm		I don't need to remind you that we've all sworn an oath. That said, I'm going to forget we had this conversation with the understanding that such speak will never occur under this roof again. Am I clear?
fromm		Tell   your friends that I always come   down on the right side. And as long   as the Fhrer is alive, you know   what side that is.
tresckow		Dammit, Stauffenberg. You scared me half to death.
stauffenberg		We'll be closer than that before we're finished.
tresckow		Looking this over, I'm not satisfied that the Reserve Army is enough to shut down Berlin completely.
stauffenberg		 Yes, I've been giving that some thought. We should include any field units that are home on leave.
fellgiebel		You realize how close I am to Hitler. With one word I could have the Gestapo make you disappear.
stauffenberg		Why haven't you then?
fellgiebel		But you know. And when the SS catch you, they'll pull you apart like warm bread. It'll be a crime just to have known you then. I warn you. If it means protecting myself, I will expose you. Do not try to contact me again.
stauffenberg		You can't report me. Maybe if you had when I first approached you, you'd have been keeping your oath. But now you're just as guilty as-
fellgiebel		So you think that makes me a sympathizer, eh? You give a man the choice of betraying a fellow officer or his Fhrer and assume his actions will show you his heart. It's not that simple.
stauffenberg		It is to me.
fellgiebel		For the last time, don't push me to make a decision.
stauffenberg		I have no choice. It's clear now that without you we have no hope of success.
fellgiebel		And what if you do, eh? What then? Will you be any different from Hitler? What of his Reich, his people, the very momentum of history? Will all of that let you be something he isn't?
stauffenberg		No.
fellgiebel		There it is.
stauffenberg		But my pregnant wife, our four children, the Germany I first swore to defend... They demand that I be something different. They demand that I fight for their future even if it means...
drunken officer		Are you two finished or just getting started?
olbricht		You play the part of bureaucrat beautifully.
stauffenberg		It's the only time I can relax.
olbricht		There's a man here to interview as your adjutant.
stauffenberg		Adjut- What for?
olbricht		No one told you?  You've been promoted Chief of Staff for the Reserve Army.
stauffenberg		For Christ's sake. Don't I have enough to do?
olbricht		Unfortunately, your nocturnal activities don't count as service to the Reich.
stauffenberg		I'll refuse the promotion.
olbricht		You'll do no such thing.
stauffenberg		Dammit, I can't handle the work I already-
olbricht		This is an opportunity we could never have dreamed of. You're in the inner circle now - with genuine access to Hitler, his advisors, his schedule... We need this.
stauffenberg		We're not ready. We're moving too fast.
olbricht		Not half as fast as the Allies. An invasion is coming, Colonel. Any day now. We must act and we must act soon.
stauffenberg		For what?
olbricht		 We still need an assassin.
stauffenberg		Be seated.
haeften		For anything, sir. Anything at all.
stauffenberg		Anything is a very dangerous word.
haeften		Five thousand ships, one-hundred thousand men from the combined Allied forces.
stauffenberg		What about the Panzer divisions in-
haeften		They were never dispatched. Word is Hitler took a sleeping pill. His staff was afraid to wake him.
stauffenberg		First Africa, now France.
haeften		The Russians bearing down from the East.
stauffenberg		Sometimes I wonder if Hitler's real aim is to leave nothing but scorched earth for all of Europe.
haeften		Maybe this is a blessing in disguise. Maybe he'll finally listen to reason - consider a truce while he still can.
stauffenberg		We'll see if I can't convince him.
herber		Colonel Stauffenberg is an honored guest. The hero of Africa.
fromm		For God's sake, Stauffenberg, you're-
fromm		Mein Fhrer... I wish to present Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg - our new Chief of General Staff for the Replacement Army.
hitler		May I say, I am honored to meet a hero who has sacrificed so much for Germany. If only more of my officers were like you.
fromm		Mein Fhrer, we have asked Stauffenberg here today so that he might brief us on mobilizing troops from the Home Army to support those in Normandy.
hitler		Hmmm? Oh yes, Normandy. That will no longer be necessary. General Goering has assured me that Normandy is under control.
stauffenberg		Mein Fhrer, if I may... The situation in Normandy is-
keitel		You're dismissed, Stauffenberg.
stauffenberg		But-
keitel		Send your man home, Fromm. Then bring us some brandy.
stauffenberg		Heil Hitler.
fromm		I don't know what you've got brewing and I don't want to know... But when the music stops, I'd be much obliged if Keitel should find himself without a chair.
stauffenberg		They're all insane. Every one of them except for Speer, and he's nothing but an architect.
beck		Out of the question. It won't work. We need you here in Berlin.
stauffenberg		Who else, then? Who can even get as close?
stauffenberg		We both know there's no other way.
beck		I'll tell the others-
stauffenberg		Nonsense. You're stronger than you think. You might just be the strongest one of all.
nina		...After that I thought I'd take the children to the country for a few days to see my- Claus?
stauffenberg		The country...  Nina. Listen. I want you to delay your trip. Just for a while.
nina		Does this have something to do with... your work?
stauffenberg		I would just be more comfortable knowing where you are - until I'm back from Berlin. Things will be different then. I promise.
nina		How long until... until we see you?
stauffenberg		A few days. If all goes well. Then we can travel as a family.
nina		And if things... don't go well?
stauffenberg		I love you, Nina.
nina		And I love you... What-
children		PAPA, COME AND PLAY WITH US. 
nina		Go be with your children.
mertz		Two 975 gram packs of plastic-W. Enough explosive to cripple a panzer.  Your fuses. British time pencils. This acid capsule is your trigger.
olbricht		What if they search your bag?
stauffenberg		I'm one of the inner circle now. They'll make sure I am who I am. Beyond that, they won't touch me.  How much time do I have?
mertz		Theoretically there's a 30-minute delay. But with the kind of heat you can expect at the Wolf's Lair, I'd give you 10, 15 minutes tops.
haeften		That's... hardly precise.
mertz		This is state of the art. You can have small or precise. Not both.
olbricht		Might this be just a little too small?
mertz		The explosion won't do the killing. The air in the room will.
olbricht		Of course, I'm all for redundancy. However... If, by some miracle, Hitler does survive, what then?
stauffenberg		We have an inside man at the Wolf's Lair in communications. He'll notify you immediately following the flash and then sever all contact with the outside world.
olbricht		Just how did you manage that?
stauffenberg		It's my job, isn't it? While Hitler's inner circle is still regrouping, you will initiate Valkyrie and seize control in Paris and Berlin. Even if Hitler survives, we'll have momentum.
mertz		 But as   you said yourself it would take a   miracle. Anyone in that bunker   when just one of these goes off is   not coming out alive.
olbricht		Himmler is expected to be at the meeting as well. Don't proceed unless you can get them both.
stauffenberg		That could be difficult.
olbricht		Why kill a madman just to have a lunatic take his place?
stauffenberg		This is Goerdeler's idea, isn't it?
olbricht		The members are in total agreement on this.  Stauffenberg chews on this, pissed. Then:  STAUFFENBERG Fucking politicians. I'll hold off if the decision is unanimous. And I want another man on the committee. A soldier.  A soldier himself, Olbricht is insulted.  OLBRICHT And just who this soldier be?  Stauffenberg glances at Mertz, sizing him, up.  STAUFFENBERG  This is General Olbricht. Order the Guard Battalion and all Army Schools near Berlin to take up march readiness. Stand by for Operation Valkyrie.  CLACK-CLACK-CLACK-CLACK-CLACK...
helm		 Lieutenant.
haans		What about it?
helm		This order is calling the Reserve Army for some sort of stand-by action... in Berlin.
haans		 Looks like a drill of some kind.
helm		Valkyrie? I've never heard of that.
haans		Send the order through, Sergeant.
haeften		 Your man?
stauffenberg		 Himmler. Where is Himmler?
keitel		...Now for the first order of business. Fromm, I believe you will brief us on blocking divisions for the Eastern Front...
mertz		General Olbricht's Office.  Stauffenberg says Himmler's not at the briefing. He wants to proceed.
olbricht		Call Beck.
beck		Beck.
stauffenberg		What do you say?
mertz		I say do it.
stauffenberg		 My briefcase.
keitel		...Gentleman. You are dismissed.
fromm		That call better have been important.
freyend		Your bag... Colonel.
hase		 What the hell is going on? My men have been standing here for an hour. I don't know what to tell them.
olbricht		This has been a drill. You're all to be commended for your quick response. Dismissed.
soldiers		HEIL HITLER.
hagen		What did I tell you? A drill.
olbricht		That man there. Who is he?
hase		Major Remer? He commands the Deutschland Guard Battalion. What about him?
olbricht		Get rid of him.
hase		Remer? Don't worry about him. He's an order taker. To the bone.
herber		The General will see you now.
fromm		How dare you put the Reserve Army on standby without my knowledge. You damn near cost me my commission. What in God's name made you think you even had the authority?
olbricht		It was only a drill. An exercise.
fromm		DON'T LIE, OLBRICHT. Not to me. We both know it was no fucking drill.
stauffenberg		General, if I may-
fromm		You may not, Colonel. You may not do anything. Because now you've not only shown me you can't deliver, you've painted a target on my back. If I so much as sense you trying to move the Reserve Army again, I'll personally have you both arrested. Do I make myself abundantly clear?
fromm		Heil Hitler.
olbricht		Heil Hitler.
fromm		I'll hear you say it, Colonel.
stauffenberg		HEIL HITLER.
goerdeler		The point of your central solution is to replace Hitler so that we can negotiate a truce with the Allies. The Allies, I suspect, would be more amenable to a truce... IF WE OFFER IT TO THEM BEFORE THEY ARE IN FUCKING BERLIN.
stauffenberg		Today was a matter of indecision - nothing more. A military operation in the hands of a politician.
goerdeler		I don't think I am alone when I say your judgement is in question.  I would like to take a vote.
beck		Carl.
goerdeler		I DEMAND THAT WE RELIEVE COLONEL STAUFFENBERG.
beck		Carl, if I may have a word with you in private.
goerdeler		If you have something to say, Ludwig, say it here. Say it now.
beck		Very well. There's no need to vote.
goerdeler		Wha... What are you saying?
beck		Fellgiebel informed me this evening... Himmler's issued an order for your arrest. You'll have to leave Germany. Tonight. When we've succeeded with the central solution you'll return as Chancellor. Until then-
goerdeler		This is your doing, isn't it? ISN'T IT? You can't just get rid of me like this. I am the man Germany will follow. I'm... I...
beck		Disappear, Carl. Avoid contact with anyone.
olbricht		I can't issue Valkyrie again unless we follow through. If he fails to-
stauffenberg		I'll do my job. You just take Berlin.
beck		Gentlemen, may I introduce Chief Helldorf. He's guaranteed the full support of the Berlin Police.
beck		Gentlemen, this is the most important day of your lives. Long live sacred Germany.
mertz		Put the Reserve Army on standby alert.
olbricht		Not until I hear from Stauffenberg. Not until I'm sure.
mertz		But that's not what he-
olbricht		Noted, Colonel. Thank you.
freyend		Gentlemen, may I present Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg - Chief Officer of the Reserve Army.
stauffenberg		Indeed. I've got the whole bag of tricks right here.
freyend		Let me take that for you.
stauffenberg		Yes, sir, there is. I'm expecting a call of the utmost importance. Even if it comes when I am in conference with the Fhrer I'd appreciate it if you had a man come and get me.
fellgiebel		Of course, Colonel.
keitel		Gentlemen. The meeting has been pushed forward to 12:30. Mussolini is arriving on the afternoon train and Hitler wants to have lunch with him.
stauffenberg		Will Mussolini be in the briefing?
keitel		I only wish he were. Then some ambitious officer might take the opportunity to shoot the dago bastard.
stauffenberg		I'll need a place to wash up - change my shirt.
freyend		Please, do be quick. You heard the General.
haeften		 You're arming them... now?
stauffenberg		No room for error this time. Assume I have ten minutes in this heat.
haeften		Leaving just three minutes to place the bomb.
stauffenberg		Plenty of time.
haeften		If the bomb goes off in ten.
freyend		Major Freyend speaking.  Stauffenberg? Yes, he's arrived... They are on their way now.
stauffenberg		Dammit man, what is it?
freyend		General Keitel insists that the Colonel please hurry.
haeften		The Colonel is changing, Major. You understand this can be difficult.
stauffenberg		 See that the car is ready.
haeften		But sir-
stauffenberg		I have everything I need, Lieutenant. Thank you.
freyend		Please. Let me help you with that.
stauffenberg		 I can manage, thank you.
stauffenberg		Where are they going?
freyend		It's too hot. The briefing has been moved to the conference hut.
stauffenberg		My injuries left me a bit hard of hearing. See that you place me as near the Fhrer as possible.
general		The Eastern Front forces are assured a victory... but they need reinforcements.
keitel		Please pardon our tardiness... You remember Colonel Stauffenberg?
general		As you can see, Mein Fhrer, the situation in the East Prussian sector is increasingly critical... 
adam		General Fellgiebel, sir. He says it's urgent.
general		...And now I believe Colonel Stauffenberg will present us with his deployment for the Replacement Army should the unthinkable occur and the Russians reach-
freyend		Where the hell is Stauffenberg?
stauffenberg		Contact General Olbricht in Berlin. Tell him Hitler is dead. Proceed with Operation Valkyrie. Then sever all communications.
communications officer		What the hell just happened?
fellgiebel		What does it look like? The Fhrer is-
stauffenberg		We have to get to the airfield at once. Orders form the Fhrer.
fellgiebel		Sever all communications.
communications officer		Sir?
fellgiebel		DON'T ARGUE WITH ME, DAMMIT. JUST DO IT.
mertz		I didn't hear you. Come again. Fellgiebel. FELLGIEBEL.
olbricht		Well, what did he say?
mertz		I... couldn't be sure. It sounded as though he said... Hitler is still alive.
olbricht		Get him back on the line.
mertz		Sir... The bomb did go off. That much was clear. Fellgiebel's next step will be to sever all communications.
olbricht		Only Fromm can initiate. You know that.
mertz		Then lie. Tell him Hitler's dead. Or arrest him. But do it now.
olbricht		I'm not doing anything until I talk to Fellgiebel. Get him back on the phone. NOW.
kolbe		No one gets in or out.
stauffenberg		We're on orders from the Fhrer. We have to get to the airfield immediately. You will step aside.
kolbe		I'm sorry, sir, but my orders are-
stauffenberg		Get me General Keitel.
kolbe		Kolbe.
stauffenberg		Sergeant Kolbe says no one is getting out... Yes. Yes. Maybe you can explain it to him.
kolbe		That won't be necessary, Colonel.
olbricht		I can't initiate Valkyrie without confirmation that Hitler's dead. It's too great a risk.
mertz		What about Stauffenberg? What about his risk? He did his part and now you're abandoning him.
olbricht		Watch yourself, Colonel.
mertz		Shouldn't you be consulting Beck?
olbricht		I know just what Beck will say. He's a dying man. What does he have to lose?
mertz		At least put the Reserve Army on alert.
olbricht		I can't cover up another false alarm. When Stauffenberg returns, when he gives me confirmation. Then we'll proceed.
mertz		And where are you going?
olbricht		The same place you are. Lunch.
adam		The one-eyed Colonel...
keitel		Stauffenberg.
adam		He left the building very abruptly - just before the explosion.
keitel		Several men left the building before the explosion.
adam		Yes, sir. Of course. But...
keitel		But what? Spit it out, man.
adam		Well. The Colonel left his hat.
freyend		Pardon the intrusion, sir, but I think you will be most interested to hear what this man has to say.
mertz		Orders from General Olbricht.
helm		Send it through. But keep me informed.
hagen		Here we go again.
stauffenberg		Quiet, isn't it?
haeften		I'll see where our driver is.
olbricht		Explain this.
mertz		Someone had to do something while you were playing dead.
olbricht		We don't know that the Fhrer is not alive. We don't know any-
mertz		THIS IS ABOUT GERMANY, FOR GOD'S SAKE. NOT YOU. BE A MAN.
stauffenberg		It's been three hours, Olbricht. What the hell have you been doing?
olbricht		We've had no confirmation that-
stauffenberg		Dammit man, I saw the explosion myself. Nothing else matters now. We are committed.
olbricht		Dear God.
stauffenberg		Now where is Fromm? Is he with us or did you-
olbricht		I- No one has spoken to him yet.
stauffenberg		Listen to me, Olbricht. Never mind Germany. Never mind Europe. Your life is at stake now, do you understand? If you want to live through the night you'll do exactly as I say.
olbricht		I understand.
stauffenberg		The second you hang up the phone, initiate Operation Valkyrie in Fromm's name. Then go over to his office in force, give him the choice to join us or place him under immediate arrest. Do I make myself perfectly clear?
olbricht		I understand.
stauffenberg		I am at the airfield now. I will be in Fromm's office in fifteen minutes. Be there when I arrive.
olbricht		Get Beck and the others. Tell them it's time.
helm		The Fhrer is dead.
haans		You all know your jobs. Get to work.
operator		Sergeant. This order is signed by Witzleben.
helm		 That's ridiculous. He`s not even in the army anymore.
olbricht		General Fellgiebel. At the Wolf's Lair.
olbricht		There's no use calling, all communication lines are-
keitel		I don't know what you mean. Everything's in order here.
fromm		There's talk the Fhrer's been assassinated.
keitel		Another failed attempt. The Fhrer was never in danger.  By the way, where is your man Colonel Stauffenberg?
fromm		Stauffenberg? On his way back to Berlin, I should think.
fromm		Certainly.
stauffenberg		Hitler is dead. Operation Valkyrie is in effect.
fromm		OPERATION VAL- WHO GAVE THE ORDER?
stauffenberg		You did.
fromm		THIS IS NOTHING LESS THAN TREASON.
stauffenberg		Be that as it may, the Reserve Army is assuming control here in Berlin. We trust you'll join us.
fromm		Dammit, man. Do you realize what you've done? The Fhrer is a-
stauffenberg		I delivered the bomb myself. I saw the blast. He is dead.
fromm		This can't be happening. It's some kind of joke.
stauffenberg		Are you with us or not?
fromm		Colonel, if what you say is true you should shoot yourself at once.  The rest of you are under arrest.
stauffenberg		No, General. You are.
stauffenberg		 Lock him upstairs in his private quarters. Make sure his phone lines are cut.
stauffenberg		You're not in uniform.
beck		This has to be seen as a movement of the people.
young officer		Colonel Stauffenberg, sir. We're reporting for duty.
stauffenberg		 Helldorf, I'm... glad to see you. We're getting a late start and we need all of the manpower we can muster. Can we count on the police?
helldorf		There's a lot of talk that Hitler isn't really dead. Is this true?
stauffenberg		I can't offer you any guarantees. The decision is yours and yours alone. Can we count on you?
helldorf		I'm with you.
stauffenberg		Have your men surround the building. No one gets in or out of here without my permission.  I want every available soldier on task - we need simultaneous control of every government building in the city. Dismissed.
beck		Acts of vengeance will not be tolerated. We represent a different form of government. We represent what is good and just in Germany.
stauffenberg		...Deploy troops to seize and protect all Reich agencies. Of most importance are communication centers - newspapers, radio stations, telephone and telegraph offices. All Nazi officials and government leaders are to be arrested at once...
hase		... Completely blockade the government quarters. Everything from the Brandenburg Gate to Potsdamer Platz. Nobody, not even generals or ministers, should be allowed to pass.  You have your orders, gentlemen.
remer		It just all seems very... vague, sir. Protocol dictates we should receive orders in writing-
hase		These are the orders as they were presented to me, Major. Now move.
hagen		Major Remer. We've just had orders from the War Ministry. The battalion is to blockade the government quarter and place Minister Goebbels under arrest.
remer		Something just doesn't feel right about this. I would hate to find out I'm being taken advantage of.
hagen		 A coup you think?
remer		Of that I am certain. What I can't say is which side we're on. Get in.
fat general		Begging your pardon, but I have orders to report to General Fromm.
olbricht		General Fromm is no longer in command. I am.
fat general		I...  Beck? What are you- What is going on here?
stauffenberg		The Fhrer is dead. The SS is staging a coup. We've initiated Operation Valkyrie to crush the uprising and save Hitler's Germany.
fat general		I'd say there is a coup all right, but it's not the SS.
olbricht		You will present these orders to your troops.
fat general		I will do no such thing without speaking to General Fromm. I swore an oath-
fat general		This is treason. I won't take part. The Fhrer is not dead. THE FHRER IS NOT DEAD.  The Fat General makes a break for it. The conspirators chase him out into...
olbricht		STOP THAT MAN.
fat general		THE FHRER IS NOT DEAD. I'VE SWORN AN OATH. YOU ALL HAVE...
stauffenberg		Lt. Herber. Come here.
goebbels		I am ready to be connected.
remer		Minister Goebbels, my battalion has an order to blockade the government quarter and place you under arrest.
goebbels		Are you a dedicated Nazi, Major?
remer		Yes, sir.
remer		Of course, Mein Fhrer.
haans		What is it now, Sergeant?
helm		It's just that now we're getting conflicting orders, sir. The Wolf's Lair says one thing, Stauffenberg another.
haans		Our job is not to interpret the orders. Our job is to pass them along. Regardless.
helm		Yes, but sir-
haans		Is that perfectly clear, Sergeant?
remer		 Release these men at once.
hagen		But these men are part of a coup.
remer		I've just been on the phone with Hitler himself. We are the coup, you idiot. We've been duped.
fromm		Well, Lieutenant. What do you make of all of this?
herber		I... I don't know...
fromm		I won't ask you to make a choice. That's for you and you alone. All I ask is that you observe and think for yourself. In time you'll see things for what they truly are. You know where to find me when you do.
herber		Heil Hitler.
goebbels		Have you seen the Fhrer? Is he-
himmler		It seems the conference table shielded him from the blast. He's lucky to be alive.  Do you want to tell me what's going on?
goebbels		Everything is under control. I've taken charge of the Guard Battalion and given them new orders. We're turning the tables on these cowards.
himmler		I've been sent here personally by the Fhrer to collect the conspirators. He insists they be taken alive.
goebbels		Take this down. By order of Adolf Hitler...
helm		It's a coup all right... And when it's over, we'd better wind up on the right side. Now we can't afford to remain neutral any longer. We have to make a decision.
haans		Very well. Send all communications from the Wolf's Lair. Stop all communications from Stauffenberg.
radio announcer		...The Fhrer himself suffered no major injuries and resumed his work immediately...
stauffenberg		Send the following teleprint to all Army Commanders... `Broadcast communique not correct. The Fhrer is dead. Orders to be carried out with utmost dispatch.'
witzleben		The military districts are receiving contradictory reports. I've got men sitting around joking about whose turn it is to arrest whom. Neither the capital nor the radio network are under our control. And where are the troops? You'd think there would be some activity going on in this city.  The word is all over the street that Hitler is still alive. We trusted you and you failed us. You should have stayed. To be sure.
witzleben		I'm going home to await my inevitable arrest.
herber		Arm yourselves.
remer		YOU THERE.
remer		You're under arrest.
beck		I'd like a pistol, please.
remer		General, my orders are to deliver the prisoners alive.
fromm		Noted, Major.  Get on with it then.
remer		But, sir-
fromm		THAT WILL BE ALL, MAJOR.
beck		I'm thinking of earlier times...
****Dialogues from script :Vanilla_Sky.txt****

on black		We hear a whooshing sound, getting louder.  A BLINK OF AN IMAGE New York City from a perspective of flight, not an airplane, a swooping diving shot. Back to black.  A WOMAN'S VOICE Abre los ojos... open your eyes... open your eyes...  INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING  DAVID AAMES, JR., 32, swings out of bed and sits on the corner of his mattress. it's a chilly New York City morning. Early sunlight glows around the corner's of his curtains.  A WOMAN'S VOICE open your eyes... He reaches behind him to shut off a slim voice-activated clock-radio. He rises, a comforter draped around his shoulders, and heads to the bathroom.  INT. DAVID'S BATHROOM - MORNING  David regards himself in the mirror of a beautifully-tiled and well-appointed bathroom. in his thirties now, his looks have only deepened and improved. He brushes his teeth. He spots a gray hair, and holding tweezers, seizes and plucks it.  INT. DAVID'S BEDROOM - MORNING  David puts on a shirt. Checks his wallet for money. His bedroom is elegant and spare.  INT. DAVID'S NEW YORK CITY APARTMENT - MORNING  He slips down the stairs into the expansive living area of this deeply-textured apartment. A stunning, inherited book collection lines the walls.  INT./EXT. NEW YORK CITY GARAGE BELOW APARTMENT/STREETS -
morning		David starts up his dark green sports car, and roars onto the New York City streets.
david's voice		You're a shrink. You've got to do better than that.
david's voice		What do you want to know? I was about to turn 33. I ran three magazines, and a world-wide publishing house. On most days I actually fooled myself into believing it would last forever.
david's voice		Isn't that what being young is about? Believing secretly that you would be the one person, in the history of man, who would live forever?
julianna		Where you going so early?
david		 Hey, don't record any more messages on my alarm--clock, okay?
julianna		Why not?
david		I'll think we're married or something.
julianna		Don't you ever say that word. Or I'll never come over here and bring you chicken soup and fuck your brains out again.
julianna		Still there. How's yours?
julianna		Reyna, it's Julianna. I missed my audition.  I'm with David.
david		Help yourself to whatever you want. Set the alarm, Maria will clean up. Lock up when you go. And... you are the greatest.
julianna		Bye "honey!"
david		Bye "honey!" I'll call you later.
julianna		When? When?
david		Soon! They have a comfortable, healthy, mutually satisfying, gloriously superficial relationship.
david		Did you reserve the court?
brian		Easy. I can't handle heavy conversation at this ungodly hour.
david		I'm sorry to do this early. I gotta be done by 10. Car phone rings. David checks Caller ID - it's his office. He clicks on.
david		How did you find me?
rachel's voice		David Aames, you have to check the colors of the letters for the new issue of Rise.
david		What are the colors?
rachel's voice		Yellow-and-red... or the traditional white.
david		Let, me think about it.
rachel's voice		David, please. Don't be late for the ten o'clock with the board.
david		Okay, but. don't tell anybody where I am I don't care if God calls. I'm very busy.
brian		Can't you just get rid of that board?
david		The Seven Dwarves? No.
brian		Those people drive you nuts.
david		And that was the desire of my father, who hired them.
brian		 You fucked Julie Gianni again, didn't you? David takes off driving.
brian		I know someone was there when I called. You had that tone.  Oh, no man, I've got a cold. I'm hanging in tonight.
david		 I had a cold. I was alone.
brian		Fine. You can do whatever you want with your life -
david		Thanks.
brian		-- but one day you'll know what love truly is. It's the sour and the sweet. And I know sour which allows me to appreciate the sweet.
david		Julie Gi.anni is a friend. Sometimes we sleep together. Brian howls in pain, like a hurt dog.
david		What --
brian		My dream girl... Julie Gianni... is your... fuck buddy. Brian emits another pained howl. David reaches over to change the music.
david		What do you want to listen to?
brian		Slow down, man.
david		What have we got here - Barcelona, Looper... Radiohead? Brian freezes at what he sees.
brian		Look out! Look out! David turns and sees he's hurtling into the back of a car stopped just in front of him. Clenching he hits the brakes, narrowly avoiding a high-speech collision. And then... to his right... another car comes hurtling toward him... and stops within an inch of deadly impact.           There is an awful moment, as the second car blares on the horn. Traffic continues, but the lingering feeling of dread and confusion is still in the air.
brian		Fuck!
david		 We almost died.
brian		I know. My own death was right there in front of me, and you know what happened? Your life flashed before my eyes.
david		How was it?
brian		Almost worth dying for. Pedestrians continue walking around the honking tangled mass of the near-.accident.
rachel		The art department needs a decision on the colors. Yellow- and- red, or white? And the board is pissed you're late.
david		You changed your hair. David taps on the window of the art department, in panic over several cover mock-ups. He gives a presidential thumbs-up, moves on. They look at each other, trying to decipher if the thumbs-up was a decision.
art editor		Did he mean the yellow-and-red or the white? David passes a holdover from the old days, older Receptionist        who speaks uncomfortably and gruffly into a headset. She gives David a knowing look - late again.
rachel		They're all waiting for you. And David - opinions are expected.
grumpy		 How was Aspen?
david		 How's it going? He gestures charmingly, easily, and bows with apology over his lateness. All are happy to see him. Sort of.
david's voice		They still look at me like I was still eleven years old.
flashback		David at          11, blithely skateboarding the hallways. He passes Beatrice, who turns to an editor.
beatrice		He's going to inherit everything. He gets it all. if
mccabe		You're scared of your dreams, aren't you?
david		It's a nightmare either way.
mccabe		Is that how do you explain what's happened to you?
david		What --
mccabe		What happened to your face?
david		I'm not talking to you anymore.
mccabe		And you don't want to show me your face.
david		No.
mccabe		Do you know why you're here?
david		 The conversation, the coffee --
mccabe		David - the part where we parry and joust, and get to know each other bit-by-bit... we're going to have to skip it. You've been charged with murder. In four weeks, a judge will determine your fate based on what I write. You will talk to me --
david		There is no murder! It didn't happen! I don't have to talk to anybody! A Contentious Prison Guard  swings his feet down and gets up from watching a 17-inch television on a stool. He exits into the bigger room to quiet down David Aames.
aaron		You want me to help -
david		Get the fuck away from me.
aaron		Take it easy, sunshine.
david		Get the fuck away from me.
aaron		Take it easy, Face. Your whole story is full of holes! With great power, McCabe advances on the guard. His presence, when he turns on the switches, is considerable.
aaron		 I'm gonna get you, Daddy's boy little freak.
david		My parents are dead, you fuck!
mccabe		Enough! The Contentious Guard leaves.
mccabe		Is it true?
david		 Good cop... bad cop.
mccabe		That you're a Daddy's boy?
david		 Primer on David Aames, Senior. My father was not built for the 21st Century. He never ate at
mccabe		I've read it. Page  127.           "David Junior was a delight as a child." Did I miss something here? Is that all he wrote about you?
david		I don't think he ever got over the fact that I was terrified of heights. And when he and my mother were run over by a drunken teenager on New Year's Eve, ten years ago... David Aames moves closer to the light. We see a strange bland expression of his mask, at first other--worldly... and then more clearly.
david		he left the keys to the Kingdom to me...    51% control,   49% going to a group of seven board members who all thought they were first in line.
mccabe		And you believe the Board, the Seven Dwarves, put you here to take control of your company.
david		What do you care?
mccabe		We're just talking. And tonight's Wednesday night, and I go to Black Angus for dinner with my daughters on Wednesday nights, so I'll have to leave soon. You understand that our time is limited, don't you?
david		If I talk, you'll just think I'm crazy. McCabe gathers his things.
mccabe		With all the respect I can offer a man wearing a latex mask and spouting conspiracy theories, David, trust me - you've crossed that bridge.
david		Fine. Enjoy your dinner. Somehow the lilt in McCabe's voice draws him closer.
mccabe		There are five basic emotions in life. Tell me. what emotion gripped... him... before he entered that cell? Was it Guilt? Shadows. There is no answer, just a rustling and a growing sense of anticipation in the darkness.
mccabe		Hate? Shame? Shadows. Still no answer.
mccabe		Revenge... McCabe now shows the invisible skill with which he has brought his client to the precipice. And now, with one word, he invites David Aames to look over.
mccabe		Love? In the darkness, a rustling and the slight turn of a head.
mccabe		I'm completely on the wrong track, aren't I?
david		Who needs ice? Aames moves swirls is more like it - through into his party, which is nicely underway. Upscale. Modern. Part literary crowd. Part fashion crowd.       He's great in a crowd. Surrounded by people, David Aames comes alive.
lynette		David! Happy Birthday.
david		Jesus, you have the greatest taste in shoes I've ever seen. Bar none. Anywhere. A Woman Caterer in Whites     slips by with a knowing smile.
david		Emma, do you know Lynette?
peter brown		The Living Stereo system is online and looking great. it's an
peter brown		and happy birthday, sir.
brian		Hey man. Happy birthday and all the usual shit people say to each other. How you doing?
david		Livin' the dream, baby. Livin' the dream. The two friends hug. David shares a quick glance with Brian's date, who still burdened with coat.
brian		 Meet David Aames.
david		 And to what do I owe this pleasure, the pleasure of --
sofia		 -- the pleasure of Sofia. Serrano.
brian		We met today at the library, if you can believe that --
sofia		I'm sorry about my coat. It's too big for your closet.
brian		- we were both pretending to be intellectuals.
david		No no, I think it's amazing. I love your coat.
sofia		I overdressed. I mean I underdressed.
brian		I'll just continue like you're both actually listening to me.
sofia		 Do you have another room to put it in?
brian		 I have ceased to exist.
david		Well, Madison Square Garden is nearby, it might fit there.
sofia		 Happy Birthday. Her upbeat physicality is intoxicating. Sofia hands David her present.
brian		We picked it out together. Neither look at Brian. Brian takes a breath. He's been here before.
david		Thank you.
brian		We picked it out together. We...
sofia		Welcome.
brian		Stop flirting and open it.
david		Okay.
brian		Let's get a drink.
sofia		Okay.
david		I'll leave this upstairs. David exits. They are left to consider his personal charisma.
on david		David is approached by THOMAS TIPP, a Brit, and an Associate board-member at Aames Publications. Tipp is ten years older than David, and he is the rarest of birds. A sentimental lawyer. And at the moment he's a bit drunk.
david		Hey Tommy. David moves to address him so he can still track Sofia.
tipp		Hey.  Listen to me. Don't blow me off. I'm all packed, I'm going back to London and I understand. You put me up for that other attorney's job, so you didn't have to fire me. A classy move, and your father would have done the same ---
david		It's okay, Tommy --
tipp		I became incompetent. Is there anything more unbecoming than an aging mascot? I cared about your father. I lived and breathed for him. But these guys, the board, they think you're stupid.  A corporate hazard, a rogue. But the word "stupid" is what David heard loudest of all. Nearby, we see a Woman Partner           taking a quick look at David.
tipp		But they're going to find a way to get you out. They're lined up for your office - David scans the room. Beneath the good cheer, he sees the other layer. Lying. Disloyalty. All part of the institution he enjoys forgetting exists. Each word bashes his soul.
tipp		-- your job. Your life. Your position. They are working day and night. to cheat you out of your 51% vote. And they are going to sell this tradition, this tradition of words, so they can eat at a better cafeteria. And what they don't know is this -  - people will read again. David's gaze falls upon Sofia, who is looking directly at him. And for one blinding moment, something passes between them. She looks away. He feels saved.
david		 I got it.
tipp		They even have a nickname for you behind your back. David smiles faintly. Understandingly.   Tipp kisses him on the cheek, boldly and drunkenly. He feels like a hero to himself.
tipp		Citizen Dildo. David flinches, just a little.
tipp		Now you've got great instincts. But I say this with complete love. Claim your life... Learn to be an Asshole... Don't be         -
david		 Two's enough -
tipp		Don ' t be-  Okay. Forgive me. I still believe in this family. Even if it's only you. David continues tracking Sofia as he slips over to Peter Brown.
david		Get Tipp out of here, drive him home, and in the morning tell him he's re-hired with a 50% raise. Set up a meeting with the other attorneys. I'm going to be in early tomorrow --  -- earlier than usual.
julianna		Hello handsome. He turns to see Julie Gianni in the bathroom doorway, wrapped in a comforter.
julianna		I've come to wish you happy birthday.
david		I didn't invite you, Julie.
julianna		Yeah, that was a little weird -
david		But that's how it works with parties. You have to be invited.
julianna		I'm mad at you, you dick. We made love four times the other night.
david		Is that good?
julianna		Two is good. Three is very good. But four -
david		 Four is pretty good?
julianna		No, four is... four is... just hold me.
david		Four is what?
julianna		Hold me, and then I'll leave, and you can go talk to that cute brunette.
david		Four is what?
julianna		I don't want to meet your fancy friends. I knew 'em all back when I was fancy too. He holds her. They talk in between friendly kisses.
david		Four is what? She pulls away, and talks plainly to him.
julianna		She looks like a moth, David.
david		A moth?
julianna		Sometimes I worry about one of these clever girls in a big silly coat who'll play you in just the right way, and I'll lose my friend. And there'll be no more chicken soup parties for you and me.
julianna		When will you call me? And don't say soon. I hate it when you say "soon."
sofia		So this is what's become of rock and roll. A smashed guitar behind a glass case displayed on some rich guy's wall.
david		It was a gift, actually. She turns and sees it's David, engaging smile in place. She jumps slightly.
sofia		 I like it. She turns and walks away, David following close behind.
david		Whoa, whoa, whoa.
sofia		- how did you get all this stuff, this apartment, this life - David is looking just over her shoulder. She turns to see an almost disturbingly large portrait of David Aames, Sr. She turns back.
sofia		I see.
david		How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here.
sofia		You are, but the food's good.
david		 See, I've got a little problem. I've got a stalker.
sofia		It doesn't. sound life-threatening. Someone passes, bumping her slightly, into him.
david		I need a cover. I need for you to pretend we're having a scintillating conversation. And you're wildly entertained. I know it's tough.
sofia		I'll improvise    -
david		She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?
sofia		Red dress, strappy shoes?
david		Yes_
sofia		 -- wow, she's really staring at you.
david		Shit.
sofia		And she seems to be growing... less happy.
david		Hmm.
sofia		I think she's the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. Julie Gianni sits on the steps watching. The girl, and the dress, looked much happier in the bedroom. Julie rises and begins to move.
on brian		Brian holds a drink, attempts to crash a conversation between two models. His debonair act is shaky.
sofia		You have another apartment?
david		Sort of a day office. Come on - They arrive at the door to a smaller upstairs apartment.
sofia		I'm not going in there.
david		Well I am. Goodnight. He enters and shuts the door. Frustrated, she stands for    a moment, listening to the music streaming from the downstairs apartment. We watch her private moment as she decides to leave him, turns, feels the emotional pull, dances back and knocks sharply three times.
sofia		I hear her coming.
sofia		No. David pulls her inside. Shuts the door behind them.
david		We're safe.      And I've got nothing to drink...
sofia		Who did these paintings?
david		This is Joni Mitchell. This one is Monet. And this one is done by me.  It is a snowboard.
sofia		Well, two of them are geniuses. 
david		 It's the real thing. His paintbrush painted that vanilla sky. His canvas. It. was my mother's.
david		You know what I think? You're either a very good actress or you really do sort of like me.
sofia		I am an actress.
david		There's probably not too much you aren't great at.
sofia		Are you about to compliment, my phone voice?
david		It's pretty good, you know -
sofia		Oh, I'd only disappoint, you. See - I'm not. qualified. I can spell.
david		I'm surprised you're available.
sofia		I'm surprised you're surprised.
david		I can't keep this banter going.
sofia		Me neither. Beat. They drop the act. A powerful, awkward moment... and the door opens.
brian		I caught you.
sofia		Brian! Come in here!
david		What's going on --
brian		Your friends are fun and I'm drunk.
david		 Julie Gianni is stalking me.
sofia		She looked dangerous.
brian		Nobody stalks me. So I drink.
david		Well, we're out of drinks up here.
brian		Here, finish my Jack and Coke. He messily tries to hand his drink to David, but spills it embarrassingly. All his cool is gone, and what's left are his friends covering for him, cleaning up.
david		These stupid glasses        -
brian		No, it's the stupid guy holding it.
sofia		 Don't worry. I'll get. us all something. Jacks and Cokes? She exits, leaving the two friends.
brian		I better hit it. I drank too much and I didn't fucking eat.
david		Don't be stupid. The party's just starting.
brian		 For you it is.
david		You can't go. You're my guest of honor.
brian		Fuck you, David. You're paying me to write my novel, so you own me.
david		I don't own you. You're brilliant, you're good-looking, you're handsome.
brian		But why'd you have to hit on Sofia?
david		No one's hitting on Sofia.
brian		Fine. Whatever you say.               I'm crazy, I'm blind.
david		No, you're not blind. You're just drinking Jack Daniels. And when you drink Jack, you start. in with that Frank Sinatra, "She Shot. Me Down," gimme a cigarette, King of Sad thing...
brian		That. I do. Gimme a cigarette.
david		I'll find one.
brian		But wait. You're rich and women love you and I'm from Ohio and I'm drunk. Can I tell you the truth?
david		Everyone does.
brian		I dig her.        And I've never said this to you before, about any girl. But she could be... could be could be could be... the girl of my fuckin dreams.
david		You're not from Ohio.
brian		I know.
brian		But if she fucks tip our friendship - she can go to hell. I won't allow it!         We are bros.
david		I feel the same way.
brian		 Sure you do. Brianprepares to leave, as Sofia returns with   drinks.
sofia		Where you going?
brian		I am Frank. And Frank must go.
sofia		Huh?
brian		I good you bid evening. Sofialooks at her watch, and the situation.
sofia		Hang on, I'll go with you.
brian		Stay, baby.
david		I'll give you a lift home later.
sofia		No, I have to work tomorrow.
brian		You're in great. hands.  I'm just humoring myself that my opinion matters. Brian looks at the two of them. Life is telling him, and he knows it's time to go. Portrait of a man who will not get what. he wants. David notes the poetry in his friend.
brian		 You will never know the exquisite pain of the guy who goes home alone. Because without. the bitter, baby, the sweet ain't as sweet. Have a good time. He exits like a champ, a glorious sad-sack, with a hand flourish.
david		The Sweet and Sour speech again.
david		A lot of people are scared of heights. It's not the heights that bother me, it's the impact that terrifies me.  I won't stay long. She laughs. It was never his decision to make.
sofia		Hey Paulo! A large goofy dog comes running at her, and then proceeds to slather David with love too.
david		I'm glad he protects you. This is a lethal canine.
sofia		 I love living here. And I refuse to clean up!
david		No problem.
sofia		I've got to work around the clock to keep this place. David eases the dog away as he examines the oddly exquisite dolls. He grabs a look at her in the other room. A bit of leg between boot and skirt.  As he admires the dolls:
david		So you're really a dancer, huh?
sofia		For     14     years.   But I don't dance like you dance. She laughs to herself, steals a look at him. Turns away.
sofia		Do you want something to drink?
david		Sure. David looks at her refrigerator. A note reads: Call Dad! An odd epiphany occurs as he sees the collage of photos
david		I like your life.
sofia		Well, it's mine and you can't have it. David examines a humorously embarrassing vacation photo of a sloshed Sofia, a guy's arm reaching for her breast. Dedication reads: To Sergio! Marry me!
david		I do not want to know the story behind this photo. Who's Sergio?
sofia		It's a nickname.
david		Your nickname is Sergio?
sofia		It's a long story, and we don't know each other.
david		So many secrets.
sofia		That's because I'm really an arms dealer.
david		I've never known an arms dealer.
sofia		You do now. What about you? What's your nickname? David freezes. And then decides what the hell - to tell the truth.
david		Citizen Dildo.
sofia		You're not staying over.
david		 Never run a company. Stay an artist. Stay an arms dealer.
sofia		Oh please. Somehow, I can't play the violin for you.  Although. It must be hard controlling all those people's lives. Everyone at that party is connected to you for survival in some way, it seems. David looks at her, mentally assessing her level of guile.
sofia		Ever been married?
david		No. Ever accept any of your 12,000 proposals?
david		And you moved to New York. To dance and paint and act and deal arms.
sofia		Right.  Do you want to hear Jeff Buckley... or Vikki Carr?
david		Jeff Buckley... or Vikki Carr? Both - simultaneously. He continues looking. Flashes of the photos on her refrigerator.
sofia		Everyone said "don't go to New York." But I just think good
sofia		You think I'm naive. He decides she's for real. He turns back to the photos on her fridge.
david		No. I really don't.
sofia		I have to get to sleep. Truthfully -- I'm also working mornings as a dental assistant.
david		 Boy, am I going to the wrong dentist.
mccabe		- actually no I don't. I've been married for twenty-two years.
david		Ah, you've got dinner with your daughters.
mccabe		That's right. I do.
david		Back then I had intricate systems with women you wouldn't believe.
mccabe		Like... what...
david		Hey Doc. Don't get all melancholy over the thirty seconds you were single a long time ago.
mccabe		That's what you think I'm doing?
david		Yes.
mccabe		Well, you may have a point. Let's continue. Time is not our friend.
david		Just our shortcomings. That's all we're allowed to draw.
sofia		 I've never drawn such a true likeness before.
david		Mine's finished.
sofia		Already? Hang on. Okay - done. Sofia offers her drawing. It's a caricature of a good- looking guy surrounded by money, cars and very thin girls. He snatches it, studies it, and what he sees hurts him in surprising ways.
david		 Jesus. That's how you see me?
sofia		Maybe I didn't add enough money --
david		No. It's wonderful. It's something you'd see on the wall of a steak-house in hell, but it's wonderful. Sign it. Sofia's face falls a bit. She sees she's hurt him. She takes the drawing and signs it, a little guilty.
sofia		Let's see yours.
david		No. She grabs it. Its a rich portrait, filled with detail, humor and style. She is rocked by its elegance.
sofia		Wow. I feel bad.  You said to draw a caricature.
david		I know. I couldn't. I saw you like that.
sofia		Well, it's very good.
david		I'll sell it to you.
sofia		You monster. How much for?
david		One kiss. She smiles. Something is developing between them.
david		That smile is gonna be the end of me.
sofia		 And what happens when your friend calls you tomorrow?
david		He only met you a few hours before me. He would do the same.
sofia		I see that friendship is important to you.
david		It is. But as his best friend, I also know that he's trying to finish a novel about inadequacy and rejection. So the longer I stay, the better it is for his career. Sofia smiles, shakes her head. And yawns.
sofia		Your career is one I'd worry about. David looks down. She's hit a nerve.
sofia		I'm sorry -
david		No, no. You're more right then you even know. I used to be one of those guys who was just
sofia		When did you change?
david		 About five minutes ago.
sofia		 Every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around. David shakes his head a little. Her words strike right to the heart of him.
sofia		What are you watching?
david		It's the greatest show... it's called "Sofia." Sofia looks at him and smiles. They look back to the television.
sofia		 I've seen this thirty times.
david		We did a story on this guy. He owns half of Arizona.
sofia		Is he a fraud?
david		How would you ever know?
sofia		Good point.
sofia		Oh, well that's comforting. It's safe for Benny. I'm in! David moves closer to her.
sofia		We better watch out. They regard each other, and David gets up off the sofa. It's true. The promise is too great to not savor it, and walk away for now. Thrill remains in the air.
sofia		Where are you going?
david		I left my number on your fridge. He makes a courtly bow and turns. She feels the loss of his company.
sofia		Come here, I want to tell you a secret. He pauses a moment, and turns. In this instant, a fleeting instant, it's the oddest thing. He can see their entire
sofia		I meant that to be your forehead. David stands. He looks around the small apartment.
david		Thank you for the inspiration. I will now attempt to run my company, showing compassion for the seething throng of my partners who root quietly for me to fail. She looks at him, quite aware of his personal and business crossroads. Silently, she roots for him like crazy.
david		For things you don't even know - thank you. I'm going to go to work. I have a company to run.
sofia		Pleasure delayer. He is still somewhat stunned by the evening, and the girl. He actually wants to run his company.
julianna		David Aames. David leans on his car, turns and shakes his head.
david		Julie Gianni.     You're following me.
julianna		only a little.    I wanted to finish what we were talking about.
david		And _-
jul ianna		How'd it work out with our Moth Girl? Did she turn into a butterfly for you?
david		Yes she did.
julianna		But I can see from your walk that you didn't sleep with her. David turns.
julianna		Let me see if I can guess. You haven't slept with her because... it's more fun when you can draw it out. Sex just isn't as good if the woman hasn't told all her friends she'd never sleep with you.
david		You're right on the money, Julie.
julianna		She must be exhausted from trying to be witty for you all night long.
david		Hey, Julie.
jul ianna		Sorry. You're just never there for your friends until they've already given up on you.
david		I'm not blowing you off! I just want to be alone for a little bit. Trust me - I have a lot of things I gotta take care of. If we're friends, which we are, you'll understand.
julianna		 I'm sorry I got weird. I missed an audition and I just felt bad
julianna		Do you want to make it up to me? I won't tell a soul. Slowly, he is drawn to her. His old self rallies one last time. He gets in the car.
julianna		Would you do a story about me if I made a CD?
david		Sure I would -
julianna		Do you like my music?
david		 It's vivid.
julianna		If I weren't me, I would buy a CD by me.
david		Well, you know, if you can reach one person. Julianna is a little hurt, hides it well.
julianna		What is happiness to you, David?
david		 what is happiness?
julianna		For me, this is happiness. Being with you. David doesn't look at her. She speeds up, slowly.
david		I didn't tell him that. I didn't say that.
julianna		When did you stop caring?
david		 About what --
julianna		About the consequences of the promises you made.
david		Promises         - I thought we had an understanding.
julianna		Do you know how hard it is to pretend to be your "buddy?" I love you, David. You fucked me four times in one night. You have been inside me and I have swallowed your come. That means something.
david		Julie...
julianna		Four times, David! That means something. Four times. He grabs at the wheel. She won't let go, and speeds up.
david		stop the car! She picks at things on the dashboard, as she talks with a manic energy.
julianna		Twenty-four hours a day I live with the aching possibility that you might call me to do something.
david		 Take me to your house. We'll talk this out. I want to see where you live. I want you to stop the car, Julie. I want you to stop the car!
julianna		Don't you know, David? Every time you sleep with someone... your body makes a promise whether you do or not?
julianna		Tell me something, David. Do you believe in God? Sweet pop music swells. She bursts the barrier of the winding road, and the car sails into an embankment of a road below. All sound disappears, as we hear a new kind of music. Ethereal, almost wondrous. This music continues.
sofia		Hello. He steals a kiss. They both feel like they're getting away with something.
david		You're amazing. Hello.
sofia		Did you get to work alright?
david		Yeah, well, actually... I had a horrible dream.
sofia		You dreamed you'd never see me again.
david		I left your house. I went to the car, and my friend the stalker had been following me.
sofia		Julie.
david		Yes. She followed me down the street. She wanted to talk, and I had that buzz... from you and me, and I think my mind was on that terrible drawing of me... and, you know, I got inside. And she drove me off a bridge and committed suicide with me in the car.
sofia		I thought you were going straight to work.
david		But I survive! I survive with my arm and my face reconstructed. And what's worse I couldn't wake up.
sofia		 How was your house after the party?
david		What party? A party?
sofia		The PARTY. Remember? Red dress... strappy shoes... I spilled something on your SHIRT... sweet and sour... and the saddest girl to ever hold a martini. He looks at her, completely lost and spacy.
david		I don't... I don't remember.
mccabe		Do you dream about the car accident?
david		And then... I came back to life. Just like that dog, Benny. Benny The Dog.
mccabe		 Benny. Benny The Dog.
david		Except my life was no longer normal. There were blinding migranes now...
david		. nerve damage. Why?        This is how big business operates. A random accident. A "lifestyle mishap?" They are not coincidences. How do you think air-tight contracts are broken? These are power upheavals.
mccabe		I'm from Ohio - we don't have power upheavals.
david		And they're in the news every day, right. between the lines. Someone did this to me. My father wrote this in his book, you know. Chapter One, Page One, Paragraph One. What is the answer to 99           out of a hundred questions? Money.
tipp		David David David. I don't want to worry you, I'm holding them off. But we've got a situation here. The by-laws of the Board protect your 51% vote only if you're mentally acute. Now I'm sorry that poor girl died, but you've given the Board a real gift with your mishap. They'd like to declare you "incapacitated." But you are back, and you sound good to me - so let's fight the fuckers._. and have a full recovery. And maybe you should let people see you. I mean, the last time we were together you were in a coma and you were very fucking rude to me. You didn't say a word. Camera reveals the extent of David's facial damage.
david		Yes, well, the rumors of my death have been mildly exaggerated.
david		Is that the procedure for all Bilateral Periorbital Hematomas in a LeFort III fracture of a comatose patient?
david		And beyond the cheek grafts, Dr. Pomeranz is, are the pins fastened
david		Experiment. Use me.
david		These are more than headaches. This is like a steel plate slicing through my every thought.
david		Because I can't think straight most of the time.
david		Yes. Medication.
david		This isn't about vanity, Dr. Pomeranz!  This isn't about vanity. This is about functioning in the world.
other doctor		We could do something about your arm --
david		Fuck my arm! Dr. Pomeranz looks over to a young assistant.
david		Tell me. Bring it on.
david		A facial prosthetic.
other doctor		 And the plastic in the aesthetic shield also filters out abusive rays, and assists in the regeneration of cells.
david		So it's an aesthetic regenerative shield.
third doctor		And the ergonomics of the plate- barrier allows it to reflexively interact with the movements of your own face.
david		I see --
david		Good. Because for a minute there I thought we were talking about a fucking mask!
david		No it's great. This completely takes care of Halloween. But what about the other 364         days of the year?
david		Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia. Sofia.
david		because nobody's buying books let's invest... my father was an adventurer.
david		Sofiaaaaaaaaaaa. Serrano.
david		You won't believe this... but this is me smiling. She laughs a little at his strange new humor, keeps a brave front.
sofia		It's been a long time. I tried to see you but your people wouldn't let me.
david		I didn't want to see me, okay. But then I woke up today and finally, a good hair day. David fights anxiety, smoothes his coat.
david		You want to go out, you want to do something?
sofia		 Sure.
david		What?
sofia		Let's go out and do something.
david		This weekend. I'll cancel an operation or two. We'll have fun. Because I am all about fun. She kisses his cheek, pulls back quickly, and as she exits... he sees her fighting tears.
conan		 He is thawed out, right? Laughter on the t.v. Riding the buzz of what he's watching, David dials.
david		Hey listen, it's David. I'm back in your life. I saw you earlier tonight. I was just watching our old friend Benny the Dog on... on Conan... and I thought of you.  Whatever. I loved seeing you today. So I'll see you soon. You're a great dancer! He hangs up and feels instantly mortified. He looks at the phone in his hand.
sofia		 Hi!
brian		 Hey.
david		What are you drinking?
sofia		Nothing.
brian		I am in the mood for cheap sugary overpriced rum-and-cokes. You want one?
david		 Is there any other kind?
brian		I'll go get us some         -
sofia		Where's the bathroom?
brian		Behind... over by the place next to the door by the chick... I mean, girl who looks like Bjork. She leaves. David turns to Brian immediately.
david		You look good, man. How's your book?
brian		Take it off.
david		I can't. It's a facial shield. It's an antiseptic prosthesis to stop infections. These fucking doctors.
brian		 Take off the mask! It's freaking me out.
david		I can't. It's my face. This is my face.
brian		Oh no. Trust me. It's a little different.
david		Hey, if you're embarrassed, just go. Nobody asked you to chaperone
brian		Sofia asked me.
david		She didn't want to be alone with me?  That's bullshit. Because I think I'm being pretty fucking cool about the whole thing.
brian		Talk to a shrink!        Or you can call me sometime, instead of hiding in your apartment. Don't take it out on a girl you only met once.
david		 Did she say that? I met her "once?" Did she say I met her "once?" Brian looks away. He's said too much.
brian		Cut it out. I miss the old you. We all miss the old you. Because the new guy is shit. David turns away. The perfectly wrong thing to say.
brian		Oh. Man. Wait. That came out wrong. I love you - period. How's your arm, man? David shakes his head, moves toward the bar.
david		Fuck you, Brian. How about no more sympathy? How about if that's the deal we make with each other? Okay? David shakes him off, goes to the bar, and rips off his mask. His head thuds from a migraine.
david		Gimme a Budweiser and a shot of tequila.
barman		 What kind of tequila?
david		What did you say to me?
barman		 I said - What. Kind. Of. Tequila.
david		Why don't you ask me to my face, bitch? The barman looks up, expressionless.
david		Patron. If you have it.
david		Another shot, another Bud. He throws bills on the bar.
barman		No. This is on the house.
david		Why -
barman		 It just is. Bitch. David looks across the club to see Sofia. A Clubgoer Guy whispers something in her ear. She shakes it off. He pounds down another shot at the bar, this time with the Barman.
david		Patron! David regards a video monitor behind the bar. Someone's camera is fixed on Sofia dancing with Brian, and another good-looking Young Man. She playfully shoves the good- looking Young Man away, not unlike the move that won David
david		Hello again.
sofia		Hello again.
david		Idea. Let's start all over. He regards her for a moment, sees her apprehension and discomfort.
david		How about if you help me? Unless I'm horning in here -  You are. But the food is good. He continues, taking a step.
david		See, I've got a little problem. I've got a stalker.  I need a cover. I need for you to pretend we're having a
sofia		 I don't talk like that.
david		She's right across the room and she's burning a hole in my back right now, isn't she?
sofia		Red dress, strappy shoes?
david		That's right! Their heads are close together, looking off into the club. David doesn't notice that Sofia is having a hard time playing along with this game. She is overwhelmed, holding it in. David continues.
david		I think she' s the saddest girl to ever hold a martini.
sofia		 David --
david		Are you okay?
sofia		No.
david		What's wrong? Is it me?
sofia		I'll tell you later.
david		Come on. Tell me now. Something's wrong. Tell me everything. Let's talk about it right now.
sofia		I'll tell you in another life... when we are both cats. David looks at her. His eyes flash at her choice of words. Perhaps there is hope. Sofia stares at. him, worried about his sanity as he goes overboard with his praise of her turn of a phrase. Push into close-ups as they struggle to deal with the discomfort of this moment.
david		I don't believe you just said that. That. is the best thing I've ever heard. That is hilarious. God, that just killed me. The way you said that. See - that's what I love about you. "I'll tell you in another life when we are both cats."
sofia		Well, this is where I leave you.
brian		Wait. I'll walk you to your door.
sofia		No, I live just around the corner.
brian		I've got my bike here.
sofia		I'd rather walk.
david		Don't be a drag. Can't you see she wants to go on her own?
brian		Shut up, you're drunk.
david		I may be an idiot, but I'm not drunk.
sofia		Seriously, I don't need you to walk me home. Thank you.
brian		Okay then. So. We'll call you.
sofia		 Great. We'll go catch a movie or something.
sofia		So. We'll meet up soon. The word sounds a lot like goodbye and they both know it.
david		We'll meet up soon. Sofia turns and runs away.
david		 We'll call you again to go out with me!
brian		We'll call you. David and Brian walk on. Brian turns back to see Sofia running to the corner.
brian		Well, it's been a real blast, David. I bid you good evening.
david		Where you going?
brian		My bike. It's back over there. We'll hang soon. Bring your mask if you want. I'm getting used to it.
david		Wait a minute.
brian		 What?
david		 I don't know.
brian		You drank a little too much. Call me tomorrow if you want.
david		Tomorrow I'll wish I was dead.
brian		 No you won't. You just need to sleep.
david		Hey!
brian		 What!
david		What did you say to Julie Gianni the night of the accident?
brian		What?
david		You told her she was a "fuck buddy."
brian		Never.
david		And she was a little more than pissed about it.
brian		 Have you been harboring this shit all along? I never talked to her.
david		Whatever. I mean - who am I, if I can't. be the one who tells you you're not ugly? Aw, give me a courtesy laugh. Come on! Brian shakes his head, starts running.
david		Brian!! I'm so fucked up. I'm just so fucked up! Brian stops one last time, irritated, at the far end of the street.
david		We're best friends! We're bros! Brian needs to rid himself of David. He turns and runs in the direction of Sofia. David feels the deep pangs of rejection. Breathing hard. His head hurts. His body hurts.
david		Come on, man, we're bros. Beat. He sprints down the middle of the street after Brian.
his mind		Brian catches up to Sofia. She turns, relieved. They kiss messily, hungrily. Her shoes arch to reach his height. David runs the streets, nearing her home. The images are tearing his mind apart. He stops and leans against a car, unsteady and nauseous. Holding his head in pain, he manages to run further. David stops on the street outside her apartment. His sobs overwhelm him. He drops to the pavement. He passes out, mouth agape. The empty street visible in the b.g., his hand loosens its grip on the mask.
woman's voice		Open your eyes... open your eyes...
woman's voice		This is a cheap ploy for sympathy. David wakes up and looks into the kind face of Julie Gianni.
julianna		Boo! He recoils. His vision sharpens. In the morning shadows, with increasing focus, we see that it is actually Sofia.
david		No, I'm okay -
david pov		Sofia examines him with a look of concern and understanding. Everything takes on a clear and sharp focus. Behind her is a beautiful vanilla sky.
sofia		And it worked. Get up.
david		Ugh -
sofia		 That's right. I agree. Ugh.
david		This is a joke.
sofia		 David. I'm not going to lie to you. I liked the way you looked. But if you don't pull it together, I'll forget the other guy. You know that. other guy - YOU?
david		 I'm still that guy. I'm still that guy. Sofia speaks with rapid-fire conviction, as if she might change her mind if she thought about it too much.
sofia		I don't. have a mother-savior bone in my body. It's not about that. You're coming inside. But if this
david		I am still that guy.
sofia		Shut up.
david		Where's Brian?
sofia		He went with you, didn't he?
david		 I thought you guys hooked up. She stops in profile with him. She's astonished at his jealousy. Then:
sofia		 I wish you hadn't gotten in the car with that girl.
david		 Sofia... I'm... She covers his mouth, nose and face. Only his eyes remain.
sofia		Your eyes apologized better. Come on. Portrait of the two, her leading him to the door, the crisp glycerine morning overhead.
sofia		Holy God, this is going to change my life in a zillion different ways... I must be nuts.
mccabe		I see you haven't been wasting your time. Do you ever draw anything else? All the drawings are of Sofia, drawn in a similar fashion. David is a little jumpy, a little amped. He moves to the window. The yard is filled with prisoners.
david		No.
mccabe		Did you sleep last night.?
david		No. I did not sleep.
mccabe		I've got to leave early today, so you'll have to be brief. Now. What can you tell me about the name "Ellie?"
david		Ellie?
mccabe		Is that a girl you knew? A girl you were in love with?
david		I've only been in love once.
mccabe		Apparently, you kept repeating it last night. You did sleep, David, and your advisor said you cried out, you had a nightmare.
david		Everything is a nightmare --
mccabe		You cried out for "Ellie," David. Do you remember what happened?
david		No... no...
mccabe		Dig deep, David. Dig deep. You cried out for Ellie. What do you remember about Ellie? Show me your face, David. Help me. Open the door. David rises and goes to the prison window. ANGLE ON McCABE In powerful framing, lower shot capturing him powerfully.
mccabe		 They did fix your face. Take off that mask, David. You'll see your face is perfect under there.
david		I never trusted the Doctors. What happened next was surreal. That same arrogant bastard, Dr.
david		He'd discovered a new form of reconstructive surgery, with the help of a doctor from Berlin.
david		The next thing I knew they shot me full of drugs I'd never heard of and away we went.
mccabe		Suspicious of whom? Of what?
david		Once you've been driven off a bridge at 80 miles an hour, somehow you don't invite happiness in without a full body search.
mccabe		Well, at the risk of boring you, I can present the alternate argument. I once knew a guy who was a real loner. And one day he woke up at 40, with two daughters who lit his life up with purpose. Suddenly he goes to endless school plays, he gets home at       9:20                  for the evening discussion, and he has the time of his life. His favorite Beatle was once John, and now it's Paul.
david		I always liked... George.
mccabe		It all depends on the individual, doesn't it? Tell me. What's happiness for you?
julianna		What's happiness to you, David?  INT. PRISON PSYCHIATRIC UNIT - NIGHT - BACK TO PRESENT
david		How about another question -
mccabe		Well, you won't show me your face. So back to the time-line. Hurry. Let's move through this.
sofia		You've got to take the plates off, David.
david		I don't want to know what's under here.
sofia		It's going to be fine, you'll see.
david		I already called Pomeranz and switched it to Wednesday.
sofia		I hope that shrew at the front desk gave you shit about it.
david		I'll go in the morning. The car'll be fixed. She advances, takes his face in her hands. She tugs at the corner of one of the plates.
sofia		Good, because I know that the problem wouldn't be you delaying something you were dreading.
david		Couldn't be that.
sofia		Nooooo, it couldn't be that. She pulls off one of the plates.
sofia		I mean, I agree, it's very important to have... She pulls off another one of the plates. She grows a bit emotional.
sofia		. the right car... She pulls off another one of the plates. Tearing slightly.
sofia		. to take you where you want to go...  24   hours a day... Quadrant by quadrant, his face is restored to a pale- skinned and tender... perfection.
david		How bad is it?
sofia		Well, your ears are in the right place. And the rest of it is... not too bad at all. Tenderly she kisses, and hugs him.
sofia		Do you love me? I mean, really love me... because if you don't, I'll just... have to kill you.
david		In my next life I want to come back as this mole -
sofia		I love you. I love you. I love you.
david		- I could live right there.
sofia		Is this a dream?
david		Oh absolutely. She grabs his face, kisses him... a powerful moment, like few others in this life.
brian		What, did she say?
david		 I have no idea. Brian shakes his head.
david		How's things, Brian?
brian		Fine. David's face is huge in the Brian's viewfinder.
david		How's things, Brian?
brian		Don't flatter yourself. I'm fine. Besides - Sofia is great, but by no means one-of--a-kind. She was a proximity infatuation. Brian, naturally suspicious and somewhat jealous,             spots  a writer at a nearby table making notes.
brian		 And don't use that, it's mine. The writer looks busted.
david		Where'd you get the camera?
brian		I'm into things... you have no idea.
david		Well, as long as you're okay.
brian		And anyway, we're friends, aren't we?
david		Always. David offers his hand. They shake.
david's pov		David's gaze moves to a 40 year-old man staring at him with a bemused smile. A plate of food sits in front of him. His eyes suggest a piercing intellect, he looks at David with deep familiarity. David can't quite place the face.
brian		Hey what's up with your face? Fuck, there's a seam opening or something!
david		 What - what are you talking about? Brian laughs. The spell is broken. Friends again.
david		You asshole!
sofia		Was I snoring?
david		 No, I think it was me. Thirsty, that's all. She kisses his hand reassuringly.
sofia		I'm dreaming about you. Mmmmmmm. He gets up and goes to the bathroom.
david		 I could listen to you say "mmmmm" for the rest of my life.
sofia		They kiss. The kiss expands, as he moves to the back of her neck. He caresses her body. She kisses his fingertips. Her back to him. Tangled in sheets, they ease into lovemaking with the perfect fit of two bodies meant for each other. He gently grabs a handful of her hair. His hand stops.   It's not Sofia's hair. He slowly turns her face to his, and we glimpse David over the shoulder of the woman who is not Sofia. He leaps out of bed, falling to the floor, the sheet tangled around him. He turns on the light. Julie Gianni hides her face from the light, like a night animal caught in the intrusive glare of day. When she speaks, it is with Sofia's cadence and accent.
julianna		 Baby, what's wrong? He gasps for breath, backing away. Totally terrified. Paralyzed. In a low voice:
david		Where. Is. She.
julianna		Who? His instinct is to protect his lifeline Sofia - and he pounces on her with a manic will to survive.
julianna		 I'm Sofia.
david		Now I'm going to make sure that I tie this four times. Do you know why, Julie? Because four times really means something. David pulls his pants on, frantically opens the wardrobe closet. No Sofia. Goes to the kitchen. No Sofia. Julie sobs quietly, sweetly, tied to the bed. She behaves and acts like Sofia.
julianna		David, don't hurt me. David returns and sits across from her on the bed, terrified and barely hanging on.
david		Okay, I'm freaked out. It worked. So just tell me right now - where is Sofia?
julianna		I am Sofia.
david		In one minute I'm going to call the police --
julianna		 Don't do it, honey.
david		I knew you'd survived the accident. She looks at him with tearful eyes.
julianna		What. accident?
david		Whose body was it? Who's the one who hired you? The Seven Dwarves?
julianna		I haven't had any accident!
david		No, of course not. It wasn't an accident at all. It was attempted murder!
julianna		Honey, please.
david		Police Department? I've captured an intruder who's entered my home. He turns to her. Her eyes are yearning.
tipp		Guys, can you give us a minute here? Detective Larson... Detective Andrews... thank you. The room empties, and Tipp approaches David.
david		They think that I had something to so with this.
tipp		I'm going to handle this exactly the way your father would have handled this. I've got it solved.
david		You've got it solved? Where is she?
tipp		She's going to be fine. David hugs Tipp.
david		Thank God you're here, man. I love her.
tipp		Yeah... Now, I want you to look at these photos and then I'm going to destroy them. Sofia's testimony is also in here. It won't exist. She's not going to press charges.
david		Press charges against. me?
tipp		David, wake up. As your friend, I think you should see what you did to Sofia. The press won't get hold of this if you get. away quickly. David leans back in his seat. It's all of them - everybody - against him. Tipp opens a file thick with paperwork, two computer discs and photos. He displays a photo to David, moving it into the light so he sees it clearly.              Julie Gianni, battered.
david		This is Julie Gianni. That's not Sofia. This is Julie Gianni. I didn't do that do that to her.  Tommy, someone's setting me up.
tipp		David, the Board and I have taken care of everything. They've been really great, actually. All of this is going to disappear. We're all behind you... even the Board. David looks at Tipp. It's very clear now. He's one of them. David attempts calm.
tipp		 Get out of here. A migraine is thundering in David's head. His world is spinning backwards.
brian		You're in fucking sad shape, man. Don't fucking ever hit a girl, man. Hit me, but don't fucking EVER hit a girl. David looks up -- sees a small security camera trained on them - pulls Brian out of the station.
david		It wasn't Sofia. It was Julie.
brian		Oh... it was Julie Gianni. So, Sofia was abducted by Julie, and now Julie is posing as Sofia.
david		Yes.
brian		You're in O.J. land, man. Julie Gianni is fucking dead!
david		I don't know what the cops have told you, but let me assure you - Julie Gianni is alive alive ALIVE.
brian		I didn't talk to the cops. I talked to Sofia!
david		Where is she?
brian		I just dropped Sofia off. And I saw everything you did to her.
david		Let me tell you something - I did not do that to her. Look me in the eye and tell me that it was the same girl you brought to the party. Tell me it was your dream girl, your "proximity infatuation."
brian		 Yes! And you stole her from me! David backs away, as Brian responds bitterly, from his heart.
brian		The one girl I really wanted, and you took her from me. You're insane. You're losing it, man. David nods powerfully. He now understands. Brian is one of them too.
david		You have revealed yourself.
brian		Oh yeah, I'm with them.
david		Where'd you get the coat, Brian? Where'd you get the camera? How much did they pay you?
brian		Listen to me, 'cause it's the last time we're ever gonna speak. I was your only friend.
david		You have revealed yourself to me.
ventura		Problems?
david		 I'm in no mood to be fucked with. So do yourself a favor and le -
ventura		There's an explanation for all this, David.
david		Who the fuck are you?
ventura		You and I know each other. You found me on the Internet. Silence. David stares at the man.
david		What do you want? Why are you following me?
ventura		I'm here to help you. And first of all, it's very important that you calm down.
david		Calm down?
ventura		You must overcome your fears and regain control. Take hold of your life again. It's as easy as holding that glass. What if I told you that you can take control of all of this... everything... even me... David turns to him.
david		Look. I'm straight, okay?
ventura		David, look at these people. It seems as though they're chatting away, doesn't it? Nothing to do with you -
ventura		-- and yet, they might only be here because you wanted them to be. You are their God. And not only that, you could make them obey you... or even destroy you. David shakes his head, exhausted and in no mood. He shuts his eyes, fights off a headache.
david		 What I'd like them to do is shut up! Especially you! Silence. David opens his eyes. They're all staring at him. Casually waiting for orders.
ventura		You see? David looks at him with horror, backing away. Receding in his vision:
ventura		You and I signed a contract, David.
mccabe		Who is the man in the restaurant? Who is it?
david		I can' t.        --
mccabe		Can you tell the difference between dreams and reality?
david		Of course. Can you?
mccabe		Think about it. Think with your head. You signed a contract, did you not.?
racing thoughts		A woman walks down the hallway, looking back. Flash   of papers signed.
david		I signed something.
mccabe		Was the man at the restaurant there? McCabe's voice becomes infinitely calm and helpful.
david		Fuck!
mccabe		Accept your body's resistance. Let your head answer.
david		Yes.
mccabe		That's right. Who is Ellie?
david		I... I don't know what's real.
mccabe		What happened that night, David? Somebody died.
david		I don't want to remember.
mccabe		Do you understand that you hold the keys to this prison?
david		It wasn't Sofia.
mccabe		Who was it?
david		No.
mccabe		Who was it?
david		No!
mccabe		You want to let it out, don't you David? You're about to tell me. Tell me what your heart and soul will not allow you to forget. David shudders. It's coming.
mccabe		Did you kill Sofia? McCabe stands tall, stunned and curious, still pressing to pull the nightmare out of him.
julianna		I thought you were a vandal.
david		 Who... are... you?
julianna		I'm Sofia.
david		You are not Sofia... you're not Sofia...
julianna		I'm Sofia.
david		Whatever. Julie starts to cry. Battling tears, she offers her heart and soul.
julianna		David, honey. This will all be over soon. We'll be together again. You'll forget Julianna and I won't be afraid of you. Let me get you a cold towel. She exits. He struggles to rise. His head is a swirling mess. And then:
david		Sofia?
sofia		 Yes, David, I'm Sofia. I'm Sofia. He accepts it, all of it, whatever it is, just to hold her. They kiss, gently, then more powerfully.
david		Where were you... Sofia doesn't answer, doesn't want to lose the moment.
david		I don't want to know.  Just tell me you love me. David keeps his face buried in her shoulder'. He doesn't want to look. The passion gives way to a mounting dread, as he hears a voice almost like Sofia's.
david		What the fuck is happening? Julie begins to react to what is clearly no longer an advanced lovemaking session.
david		I want to see your face! She grabs at the pillow.
david		I want to see your face! David reaches orgasm, sobbing, recklessly out of control. Julie's body stops kicking and settles into silence. He loosens the pillow, and is rewarded with one last violent attempt at life. Her hand smacks his neck. He's so taut it bounces off. She grabs at his face one last time, her hand is left with enough power only to caress his face. She goes limp. Silence. David's crying turns to a whimper. He looks at the pillow over Julie's head. He's confused, a puddle of jagged adrenaline. He doesn't want to remove the pillow for fear of who could be underneath. He rises up, his elbow across her lifeless chest. With true horror, he knows he has to move his hand, but his hand will reveal who he's just killed.
david		I did it, didn't I? I don't... feel... like I killed someone. I feel like...
mccabe		David, who...
david		I'm in a dream...
mccabe		. was the man at the restaurant? David shakes his head.
mccabe		 Do you know what derangement is?
david		I need your help.
mccabe		All I know is, you killed your girlfriend and I don't know what's in your mind.
david		I need your help.
mccabe		I'd work on this case forever if I could, but we've run out of time.
david		What will you plead?
mccabe		Temporary derangement. It's your best chance. They won't believe me.
david		What do you believe?
mccabe		Believe it or not, I care about you. You've become like family to me. I don't want to give up on you. David looks at, him oddly. Suddenly, the archetype seems very familiar. McCabe continues with the noble concern of a towering father figure.
mccabe		 But I needed more. I needed an answer. I... I even thought there was more than a good chance someone was playing tricks on you. Maybe it was the board. But I can't exceed my duties here. I'm just a psychologist, and I have to leave you.
david		Will I see you at the trial?
mccabe		No. I'm just the opening act. He exits. David sits at. the table as McCabe and Aaron exit. He hears Aaron's television; it's the Life Extension Infomercial.
david		McCABE!!! McCABE!!! COME BACK!!!
mccabe		 Life Extension Corporation, please.
guard		What -
mccabe		 L.E. We hold a court order.
david		I think I've been here before - McCabe strides purposefully past the Building Guard. Aaron shows the pass, and hustles to keep up.
day		The elevator door opens to reveal a very pleasant and peaceful environment. Comfortable lounging chairs. On the reception station is written - L.E. and underneath it the words: Life Extension Corporation. Two more Guards meet
david		Her name is Libby. A stunning young woman rises and moves to greet them.
libby		Good morning. I'm Libby. I'm here to assist you. Libby stares at David's masked face. It's slightly unsettling to her.
mccabe		He's my son. He's very shy.
libby		 You're not. with the media or part. of any legal consortium, correct?
mccabe		No.
libby		Welcome to Life Extension. Have a look at our proposal. Please follow me. She-offers them two bound folders featuring the logo - L.E. - and guides them down the hallway, looking back with great style, beckoning, just as in David's dream recollections.
mccabe		 You can wait out here.
libby		You'll be meeting Rebecca Dearborn.  My personal role model.
mccabe		 "Cryonization - a journey of re- awakening after the preservation of the human body at extremely low temperatures."
david		They laughed at Jules Verne too.
mccabe		 David, you're not- Account Liaison REBECCA DEARBORN enters with paperwork. She is an electric presence. Efficient, caring and oddly compassionate.
dearborn		Mr. McCabe, how are you? I'm Rebecca Dearborn.  Life Extension, or L.E. as we like to refer to it, is a glimpse of the future... a ticket... not in the juvenile sense, but in the deeply meaningful sense that can only be borne in the human heart.
dearborn		Within an hour of your passing, L.E. will transfer your body to a vessel where you will be sealed and frozen at     196                   degrees below zero. Power outages, earthquakes, nothing will effect your suspension-hibernation.
mccabe		Did you sign this contract, David? David looks down at pamphlet, looks up.
david		What's the "Lucid Dream" option?
dearborn		Good choice. The Lucid Dream is Life Extension's newest option. For a little extra, we offer the cryonic union of science and entertainment.
mccabe		 "Cryo-tainment. " Dearborn spreads apart the paperwork on her desk to reveal a thin Video Monitor built into the glass table-top. Aames and McCabe peer into the table--top as Dearborn presses play.
dearborn		Some find this presentation helpful.
narration		Portrait of a modern human life. American, male.  and Death. Imagine that you are suffering from a terminal illness. You'd like to be cryonized, but you'd rather be resurrected to continue your own life, as you know it now. L.E. offers you the answer. Upon resurrection you will continue in an ageless state - preserved - but living in the "present" with a future of your choosing.
narration		Another chapter begins seamlessly, a living dream. Life Extension's promise to you. Life -- Part Two.
dearborn		A living dream.
mccabe		Your death will be wiped from your memory. I guess I missed that one in USA Today. David sits, reeling from the revelation he may be living a Lucid Dream.
david		. a dream... What if there was a mistake? What if the dream became a nightmare?
dearborn		Of course, your subconscious can always play tricks on you. The subconscious is a very powerful thing -
mccabe		Did you sign a contract with these people, David?
dearborn		 -but this is a serious business. The Lucid Dream is worth the risk.
dearborn		I love you, David. Te Quiero. Roam free, David. Most of us live our whole lives with no real adventure to call our own. It's hard to comprehend-but they laughed at Jules Verne too.
david		I want to wake up! I want to wake up! Aaron grabs for him. David wrenches free.
david		It's a nightmare! The doors shut. Music rising.
david		Tech Support!! Music stops. We hear the ding of the elevator.
ventura		David Aames. I think it's time we had a proper re-introduction. I'm Edmund Ventura from the oasis Project, formerly Life Extension --
david		Tech support.
ventura		Yes, I'm your Tech Support. We first met      150   years ago.
david		Oh shit. You sold me the Lucid Dream. Ventura smiles.
david		Well, what the hell happened?
ventura		I tried to warn you in the bar. I told you to exercise control, that it all depended on your mind. All of this, everything is your creation. And we're now heading toward your true moment, of choice.
david		"True moment of choice?"
ventura		Yes.
david		When did the Lucid Dream begin?
ventura		Remember the day of the nightclub?
david		 Yes.
ventura		 That night, when Sofia left you and you fell asleep on the pavement, that was the moment you chose for the splice...
david		 The splice?
ventura		Splice. The end of your "real" life and the beginning of L.E.'s Lucid Dream. A splice of many years which passed while you were frozen and dreaming.
sofia		Open your eyes. They walk away, down the street, into a beautiful Vanilla Sky. Sofia slips her arm around his shoulder, as we've seen earlier.
ventura		From the moment you woke up on that street, nothing was "real" in
ventura		Forgive me. I'm blowing your mind. David looks down with dread.
david		I'm not a big fan of heights.
ventura		I know.  We erased what really happened from your memory.
david		 ..erased?
ventura		Replaced by a better life under these beautiful Monet-like skies.
david		 My mother's favorite.
ventura		That's right.. A better life because you had Sofia.
ventura		And you sculpted your Lucid Dream out of the iconography of your youth.
ventura		An album cover that once moved you...
david		An album cover?
ventura		a movie you once saw late at night that showed you what a father could be like...
ventura		or what love could be like...
ventura		This was a kind woman, an individual, more than your equal. Ventura nods wistfully. He fell in love with her a little, too.
ventura		You barely knew her in real life, but. in your Lucid Dream, she was your savior.
david		What happened in my real life? Something happened. What did you erase?
ventura		Do you really want to know?
david		Tell me everything.
ventura		The morning after the nightclub, you woke up on that street, hung- over and along. You got up and walked away. You never saw Sofia again.
david		I didn't kill Sofia.
ventura		No.
ventura		You battled your board, the Seven Dwarves, for control. In the end it was Thomas Tipp, your father's
david		 But then... somebody died.
ventura		You longed for Sofia. You shut yourself away for months. You were alone. You couldn't take the pain anymore. Headaches... you could barely function.
david		I found you on the Internet. I signed the contract with you. And then...
david		I remember... It comes back to him, powerfully.
david		Somebody died. It was me.
ventura		And on a day in late December, you gave yourself to us. You're now in a suspended state.
ventura		Your friend Brian Shelby threw a three-day memorial in your old home. He was a true friend.
ventura		You were missed, David. She moves into close-up, and we see the wonder and the joy of a perfect love, nearly attained. She soaks in the beautiful, painful mystery of life.
ventura		It was Sofia who never fully recovered. It was she who somehow knew you best. And like you, she never forgot that one night where real, true love seemed possible.
ventura		Consequences, David. It's the little things.
david		 The little things. There's nothing bigger, is there?
ventura		Your subconscious did create problems. Your dream turned into a nightmare. The glitch has been corrected.
david		So all I have to do is imagine something? If I wanted McCabe to come back, right now - McCabe comes flying out of the door.
mccabe		David. Listen to me. These people are dangerous. We're in trouble. We need to get off this roof now.
mcc david		Who turns from McCabe to Ventura. Ventura leads David away.
ventura		We're now on "pause". And you're about to return to your Lucid Dream...
mccabe		"Pause"?
ventura		 .. with all of the upgrades. You won't remember any of this, nor be charged for the technical support. it is now your moment of choice. You can return to your Lucid Dream, and live a beautiful life
david		The world out. there. And you can bring me back, just. like Benny the Dog.
ventura		Yes. Just like Benny the Dog. Your face and body can now be fixed, of course. But it's very different out there now. Your finances won't last long. Your panel of observers are waiting for you to choose. Ventura gestures into the camera. He begins walking backwards to the roof's ledge.
ventura		There are no guarantees. But remember, even in the future, the sweet is never as sweet without the sour. David sees that Brian Shelby has now joined McCabe on the roof. He nods to Brian, who nods back.
david		How do I wake up?
ventura		The decision is yours. Ventura glances over the edge.
david		And I chose this scenario, didn't
ventura		 Yes, to face your last remaining fear of heights.
mccabe		David, don't listen to him. You were right. This is the Seven Dwarves. It's a set up! You can't trust him. David looks at McCabe with compassion.
ventura		Don't feel bad, David. This winning man is your creation. It's in his nature to fight for his existence. But he's not real.
mccabe		I'm real. I have two daughters. You know that.
ventura		What are their names?
mccabe		Mortality as home entertainment. This cannot be the future. Can it? David regards McCabe. Once dynamic, McCabe now seems unsure of his own existence. Slowly, always looking at David, he settles into the truth of his very being. With great nobility, McCabe shoves his hands into his pockets and faces his own destiny... or lack thereof.
mccabe		 Goodbye.
ventura		It's been a brilliant journey of self-awakening, and you've simply got to ask yourself -- what is happiness to you?
david		I want to live a real life. I don't want to dream any longer.
ventura		Any last wishes?
david		Let them out there read my mind.
ventura		I wish you well, David. Music rises as he turns to see Sofia. He moves to her. She touches his cheek. His face is restored. They embrace.
david		Look at us. I'm frozen, and you're dead. And I love you.
sofia		It's a problem.
david		I lost you when I got in that car. I'm sorry. She looks at him, beguiling and understanding.
david		But remember what you told me once? Every passing minute is another chance to turn it all around. She kisses him.
sofia		I'll find you again. She regards her lost love, taking him in. David treasures his last moments with her.
david		I'll see you in another life when we are both cats. David backs up and begins to run. He arrives at the edge, looking down at the distance to the ground, stopping himself at the precipice. He looks back to Sofia one last time, and then leaps out into the celestial future. For a fraction of a moment, he is suspended in mid-air. And he hurtles to the ground. And the ground hurtles to meet him.
****Dialogues from script :Verdict.txt****

funeral director		Mrs. Dee, this is Frank Galvin -- a very good friend of ours, and a very fine attorney.
galvin		It's a shame about your husband, Mrs. Dee.
galvin		I knew him vaguely through the Lodge. He was a wonderful man.  It was a crime what happened to him. A crime. If there's anything that I could do to help...
galvin		 Well...
son		 What is that...?
galvin		I...
son		What the hell is that...
galvin		...I was a friend of your fa...
son		You never knew my father.  You get out of here, who the hell do you think you are...
galvin		 I'm talking to this man...
funeral manager		Excuse me, Mrs. Cleary...
son		Who the hell do you think you are?
funeral manager		I don't want you coming back here. Ever. Do you understand?
galvin		I was just talking to...
funeral manager		Those are bereaved people in there.
galvin		Pat says, 'Mike... there's a new bar, you go in, for a half a buck you get a beer, a free lunch, and then take you in the back room and they get you laid.'
jimmy		Another, Frank...?
galvin		 Everyone. Buy yourself one too.
mickey		 Get up.
galvin		Hi, Mickey...
mickey		What the hell do you think you're doing...?  What's going on here...?
galvin		Uh...
mickey		Fuck you. I got a call today from Sally Doneghy...
galvin		...now who is that...?
mickey		...You're 'sposed to be in court in ten days and she's telling me you haven't even met with them...
galvin		Sally Doneghy, now who is that?
mickey		One lousy letter eighteen months ago... I try to throw a fuckin' case your way...
galvin		...hey, I don't need your charity...
mickey		...I get these people to trust you -- they're coming here tomorrow by the way -- I get this expert doctor to talk to you. I'm doing all your fuckin' legwork -- and it's eighteen months. You're 'sposed to be in court. I bet you haven't even seen the file.
galvin		Hey, what are you, my nanny?
mickey		Listen to me. Listen to me... listen to me, Frank, 'cause I'm done fuckin' with you. I can't do it any more. Look around you: You think that you're going to change? What's going to change it? You think it's going to be different next month? It's going to be the same. And I have to stop. This is it. I got you a good case, it's a moneymaker. You do it right and it will take care of you. But I'm through. I'm sorry, Frank, this is the end. 
galvin		I'm... Mrs. Doneghy? I'm Frank Galvin... why didn't you go in?
sally		It's locked.
galvin		 It's locked?
galvin		I'm terribly sorry... I hope we didn't put you out. Won't you come in...?  I'd offer you some coffee, but it looks like my girl just went out.
galvin		It's not a good case. It's a very good case.
galvin		A healthy young woman goes into the hospital to deliver her third child, she's given the wrong anesthetic...
sally		...we, we love her, Dick and me...
galvin		...I'm sure you do...
sally		But what can we do? She don't know who's visiting her...
galvin		...I know. I went...
sally		...You saw her?
galvin		Yes. Yes, I have.
sally		You know how beautiful she was?  Her husband left her, and he took her kids... They, they, they'd let you die in there. They don't care. Nobody cares. The Patriot Home, the Chronic Care... in Arlington...? They'd take her in. Perpetual care. They'd take her. Fifty thousand dollars they want. An endowment.
galvin		...fifty thousand dollars?
sally		I don't want to leave her. Dick... the, the... and Father Laughlin, he said that it was God's will...
galvin		...I understand...
sally		My doctor told me that I got to move out West... that's when we filed in court. We didn't want to sue...
galvin		...I understand...
sally		...But Dick, he's looking for two years in Tucson... and they called him up and said to come out. He's a good man. He's only trying to do what's right.
sally		This is my husband.
galvin		Please sit down. I told your wife. I'm sorry that we have to meet out here. I've got a case coming in two days in the Superior Court and my office is a mess of papers.
doneghy		...that's all right.
galvin		I was telling your wife, we have a very good case here.
sally		He saw her at the Northern Care...
galvin		...and I have inquiries out to doctors, experts in the field... there is, of course, a problem getting a doctor to testify that another doctor's negligent...
doneghy		...the Archdiocese called up, they said who was our attorney, 'cause the case is coming to trial...
galvin		I doubt we'll have to go to trial...
doneghy		...we told them we didn't want it to come out this way.
galvin		I completely understand...
doneghy		We just...
sally		We just can't do it anymore.  This is our chance to get away.
galvin		I'm going to see you get that chance.
doneghy		What is this going to cost?
galvin		It's completely done on a contingency basis. That means whatever the settlement is I retain one-third... that is, of course, the usual arrangement...
alito		'Married Patricia Harrington, nineteen sixty...'
alito		'Joined Stearns, Harrington, Pierce nineteen sixty as a full partner. Resigned the firm nineteen sixt-ynine over the Lillibridge case...' Do you...?
bishop		He was accused of jury tampering.
alito		Accused. Not indicted. He resigned the firm. Divorced nineteen seventy. Galvin worked with Michael Morrissey until Morrissey retired in 'seventy- eight. Since then he's been on his own. Four cases before the Circuit Court. He lost them all. He drinks.
bishop		Four cases in three years...
alito		The man's an ambulance chaser...
bishop		...tell me about this case.
alito		This is a nuisance suit. He's looking for small change. He's asking for six hundred thousand and betting we don't want to go to court.
bishop		No -- we don't want this case in court.
alito		Neither does he. That's where he loses. This man's scared to death to go to court. We only have to call his bluff.
bishop		I want to settle this thing and be done with it. I don't want the Archdiocese exposed.
alito		No. Absolutely, and we're going to see that it is not.
bishop		So what I want to do is stop it here. I'm going to make him an offer. I want to do it myself. I want it to come from me.
alito		All right. But let's keep the price down. I've called Ed Concannon. He recommends that we continue to respond as if we're going to trial.
bishop		If we were to go to trial, would we win the case?
alito		Well, of course, it's always dangerous...
bishop		I know that answer. If we went to trial would we win?
alito		 Yes.
claire		 Thank you very much.
galvin		What are you doing here?
claire		Mickey told me to come back to work.
claire		...here's your mail, call Mrs. Doneghy...
galvin		...yes. Get her on the phone...
claire		...that was a Dr. David Gruber's office...
galvin		 Gruber...
claire		Mickey told him to call.  'He's some very hotshot surgeon at Mass. Commonwealth. He wants to meet with you at seven tonight re testimony in the case of Deborah Ann Kaye. You meet him at the hospital.'
galvin		 ...he wants to testify...?
claire		It looks that way.
galvin		You know what that would mean?
galvin		To get somebody from a Boston hospital to say he'll testify?
claire		...a Mrs. Doneghy called... I told you that.
galvin		 This is going to drive the ante up.
claire		 Frank Galvin's... who's calling please? Bishop Brophy's office...
claire		I'm sorry, he's not in... may I take a mess... tomorrow when, two o'clock... I'll check my book...
claire		Yes. Mr. Galvin's clear at that time... the Bishop's office, tomorrow, the fifth at two p.m. Thank you...
galvin		That's the call that I'm waiting for.
claire		What does it mean?
galvin		They want to settle.  It means a lot of money.
claire		Does that mean I'm back for awhile?
galvin		Dr. Gruber...?
galvin		Dr. Gruber...
gruber		 Yes? Galvin, right?
galvin		I appreciate -- a man as busy as --
gruber		That's perfectly all right. I'm kind of rushed. Do you mind if we walk while we talk?
gruber		I read the hospital report on your client.
galvin		...Deborah Ann Kaye...
gruber		...Deborah Ann Kaye...
galvin		They called, they're going to settle, what I want to do is build up as much...
gruber		Right. Who called?
galvin		The Archdiocese called, they want to settle... her estate...
gruber		...and you're going to do that?
galvin		 Yes.
gruber		You're going to settle out of court?
galvin		Yes.
gruber		Why?
galvin		 Uh... in the, well, in the interests of her family... you, Dr. Gruber, you know, you can never tell what a jury is going to do. St. Catherine's a very well thought of institution. Her doctors...
gruber		 Her doctors killed her.
galvin		 I'm sorry...?
gruber		Her doctors murdered her. They gave her the wrong anesthetic and they put her in the hospital for life.  Her doctors murdered her.
galvin		Do you know who her doctors were?
gruber		I read the file. Yeah. Marx and Towler. I know who they were.
galvin		The most respected...
gruber		 Whose side are you arguing...? I thought that you wanted to do something. I don't have any interest in the woman's 'estate' -- No offense, but we all know where the money's going to... I have an interest in the Hospital; and I don't want those bozos working in the same shop as me. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. They turned the girl into a vegetable. They killed her and they killed her kid. You caught 'em. Now: how many others did they kill?
gruber		You want a cigar?
galvin		The hospital is owned by the Archdioceses of...
gruber		What are they going to do? Not invite me to their Birthday party...?  Look, I gotta go. I have to be in Cambridge...
galvin		Well, well, when can we meet again.
gruber		Okay. I'll meet you here. Tuesday night... I gotta go. You going my way?
galvin		We have to... we... we have to keep you under wraps. Please don't, don't discuss...
gruber		I understand.
galvin		...the case with anyone. And I'll meet you Tuesday, and we'll go over your testimony...
gruber		Right. Seven o'clock. Here.
galvin		Thank you...
gruber		...that's perfectly all right.
galvin		 Uh, why, why are you doing this?
gruber		 To do right. Isn't that why you're doing it?
galvin		I want to buy you a drink.
galvin		Would you like a drink?
woman		I'd like an apartment.
galvin		Settle for a drink?
woman		No. Thank you.
galvin		I had a very good day today.
woman		 I'm glad you did. Thank you. Good night.
galvin		You're very welcome.
galvin		Well, well, well. Huh?
jimmy		Yeah.
galvin		 It's a long road that has no turning.
jimmy		That's for sure, Frank.
galvin		I'm going to the Archdiocese tomorrow at two. I know you don't. I know you don't... no, you're just following your life. You have a life too... you have to move out West. It doesn't help you to stay here. Well... I'm sure she knows you care for her.
galvin		 Well. Well. Well. Finally we're none of us protected... we... we just have to go on. To seek help where we can... and go on... I know that you love her... I know you're acting out of love.
galvin		 Well, bless you, too. Good night.
nurse		You can't be in here.
galvin		 I'm her attorney.
bishop		It's a question of continuing values. St. Catherine's -- to do the good that she must do in the community has to maintain the position that she holds in the community. So we have a question of balance. On the one hand, the reputation, and, so, the effectiveness of our hospital, and two of her important doctors -- and, on the other hand, the rights of your client.
bishop		A young woman. In her prime... deprived of...  ...life... sight... her family... It's tragic. It's a tragic accident.
bishop		...nothing, of course, can begin to make it right. But we must do what we can. We must do all that we can.
bishop		Yes. We must try to make it right.
bishop		It's a generous offer, Mr. Galvin...  ...nothing can make the woman well... but we try to compensate... to make a gesture...
galvin		How did you settle on the amount?
bishop		We thought it was just.
galvin		You thought it was just.
bishop		Yes.
galvin		Because it struck me how neatly 'three' went into the amount. Two Hundred Ten Thousand. That would mean I keep seventy.
bishop		That was our insurance company's recommendation.
galvin		Yes. It would be.
bishop		Nothing that we can do can make that woman well.
galvin		And no one will know the truth.
bishop		What is the truth?
galvin		That that poor girl put her trust in the hands of two men who took her life, she's in a coma, her life is gone. She has no family, she has no home, she's tied to a machine, she has no friends -- and the people who should care for her: her Doctors, and you, and me, have been bought off to look the other way. We have been paid to look the other way. I came in here to take your money.  I can't do it. I can't take it.
young priest		If we may discuss money, Mr. Galvin. How is your law practice?
galvin		It's not too good. I've only got one client.
galvin		I have to talk to you.
mickey		What do you want?
galvin		 Come on. Let's get a drink.
mickey		 Don't touch anything.
mickey		 Are you out of your mind...?
galvin		...I'm going to need your help...
mickey		You need my help...? You need a goddamn keeper... are you telling me that you turned down two-hundred-ten grand?  Huh...? Are you nuts? Eh? Are you nuts. What are you going to do, bring her back to life?
galvin		I'm going to help her.
mickey		To do what...? To do what, for chrissake...? To help her to do what? She's dead...
galvin		They killed her. And they're trying to buy it...
mickey		That's the point, you stupid fuck. Let them buy it. We let them buy the case. That's what I took it for. You let this drop -- we'll go up to New Hampshire, kill some fuckin' deer...
galvin		Mick. Mick. Mick...
mickey		What?
galvin		You -- Listen: you said to me, 'if not now, when...'
mickey		I know what I said but not now. You won it. Franky. You won it. When they give you the money, that means that you won. We don't want to go to court -- is this getting to you...?
galvin		...he's a good man...
mickey		...he's a good man...? He's the Prince of Fuckin' Darkness... he'll have people in there testifying that the broad is well -- they saw her Tuesday on a surfboard at Hyannis... don't fuck with this case.
galvin		...I have to stand up for her...
mickey		Frank, but not now. Frank. You're trying to wipe out some old business. But not now. I understand. But you go call 'em back. You call the Bishop back.
galvin		I have to try this case. I have to do it, Mick. I've got to stand up for that girl. I need your help.  Will you help me...?
concannon		 Anybody ever hear, 'For want of a shoe a horse was lost?' Who's going on vacation tomorrow?
concannon		Friedman. St. Barts. is that right?
friedman		Yessir.
concannon		 I'm sorry, but you'll have to stay. No vacations till this thing is cleared.
concannon		Our court date is January twelfth. You're all acquainted with this case. It's been scheduled for eighteen months. We have the attorney for the Plaintiff, Frank Galvin -- and I trust you are all familiar with his record -- and we have been expecting him to call us to negotiate. As he did not, and five days before we're supposed to go to court we made him a rather generous offer, which he refused. Five days before the trial. What does this mean? I want to find out.  Acquaint yourselves again with the depositions. Don't rely on the fact that we did it last year. Do it again. We're going to review them here, and you do it at home. You each have a full file. Know the deps, and I want you all to be here when we work with the defendants... when is that, Billy...?
concannon		I want an article in the Globe As Soon As Possible, 'St. Cat's... Neighborhood Giant serving the community' etc. We've got it in the files. I want something in Monday's Herald: 'Our Gallant Doctors,' something... Be inventive, I want television...  All right. Let's get the cobwebs off. Billy...?
young lawyer		Please turn to your Page Four.
young lawyer		We're going to start with a review of the depositions of the Operating Room Team: the nurse-anesthetist, the scrub-nurse, the...
mickey		Who have we got?
galvin		We've got her sister. Testifies she had a meal one hour before she was admitted to the hospital. This is the point.
mickey		You got the admittance form says patient ate nine hours prior to admittance.
galvin		Admittance form is wrong.
mickey		Forget it. You can't prove it. Sister's testimony is no good. Jury knows we win she gets the cash.
galvin		I've got my Dr. Gruber, says her heart condition means they gave her the wrong anesthetic anyway, plus she came in complaining of stomach pains...
mickey		 ...Gruber's not bad.
galvin		Not bad...? This guy's Dr. Kildare, the jury's going to love him, Mick... And you calm down, all right? Their guy, Towler's, the author of the book,  They had an obstetrical nurse in there. We got a deposition from the obstetrical nurse?
mickey		 No.
galvin		 'Mary Rooney, forty-nine. Lives in Arlington, still working at the hospital.' Can you get out tomorrow? How come she isn't speaking up.
mickey		Right.
galvin		Okay now. Cases: Smith versus State of Michigan.
mickey		Right.
galvin		Brindisi versus Electric Boat.
mickey		You got a good memory, Franky.
galvin		I had a good teacher. McLean versus Urban Transport...
galvin		Jimmy? Bushmills.  Lookit, do me a favor. I'll buy you a drink tomorrow.
mickey		Yeah? And what are you going to do tonight?
galvin		I'm going to get laid.
mickey		Don't leave your best work in the sheets.
galvin		D'you find an apartment?
laura		Still looking.
galvin		I changed my life today. What did you do?
laura		I changed my room at the Hotel.
galvin		Why?
laura		The TV didn't work.
galvin		What Hotel are you staying at?
laura		And what are you? A cop?
galvin		I'm a lawyer.
laura		My ex-husband was a lawyer.
galvin		Really. How wonderful for you.
laura		Yes. It was, actually.
galvin		Oh, actually it was. Then why'd you call it off?
laura		Who says I'm the one that called it off?
galvin		A brick house says you divorced him. I'll put you on your honor. Bet you a hundred dollars against you join me for dinner. And I'll take your word for it. Now you tell me the truth. Because you cannot lie to me. What's your name?
laura		Laura.
galvin		My name's Frank. And furthermore, you came back to see me tonight.
laura		What if it wasn't you that I came back to see?
galvin		You just got lucky.  D'you eat yet? Come on.
galvin		Jesus, you are one beautiful woman.
galvin		The weak, the weak have got to have somebody to fight for them. Isn't that the truth? You want another drink?
laura		I think I will.
galvin		Jimmy!  That's why the court exists. The court doesn't exist to give them justice, eh? But to give them a chance at justice.
laura		And are they going to get it?
galvin		They might. Yes. That's the point... is that they might... you see, the jury wants to believe. They're all cynics, sure, because they want to believe. I have to go in there tomorrow to find twelve people to hear this case. I'm going to see a hundred people and pick twelve. And every one of them it's written on their face, 'This is a sham. There is no justice...' but in their heart they're saying, 'Maybe... maybe...'
laura		Maybe what?
galvin		 Maybe I can do something right.
laura		And is that what you're going to do?  Is that what you're going to do...?
galvin		That's what I'm going to try to do.
laura		That's all right.
galvin		Yessir. I'm sorry.
judge		Why is that?
galvin		I was held up.
concannon		Ed Concannon.
galvin		 Frank Galvin. We've met before.
judge		Let's do some business.
judge		Now, have you boys tried to resolve your little difficulty because that certainly would save the Commonwealth a lot of time and bother.
galvin		This is a complicated case, your Honor...
judge		I'm sure it is, Frank: and let me tell you something. If we find it so complex, how in the hell you think you're going to make a jury understand it?  See my point? Let's talk a minute. Frank: what will you and your client take right now this very minute to walk out of here and let this damn thing drop?
galvin		My client can't walk, your Honor.
judge		I know full well she can't, Frank. You see the Padre on your way out and he'll punch your ticket. You follow me? I'm trying to help you.
concannon		Your Honor, Bishop Brophy and the Archdiocese have offered plaintiff two hundred and ten thousand dollars.
judge		Huh!
concannon		My doctors didn't want a settlement at any price. They wanted this cleared up in court. They want their vindication. I agree with them. But for today the offer stands. Before we begin the publicity of a trial. For today only.  It's got to be that way.
galvin		We are going to try the case.
judge		 Frank: I don't think I'm talking out of school, but I just heard someone offer you two hundred grand... and that's a lot of money... and if I may say, you haven't got the best of records.
galvin		...things change.
judge		...that's true. Sometimes they change, sometimes they don't. Now, I remember back to when you were disbarred...
galvin		I wasn't disbarred, they dropped the pro...
judge		And it seems to me, a fella's trying to come back, he'd take this settlement, and get a record for himself.  I myself would take it and run like a thief.
galvin		I'm sure you would.
judge		Hm.  See you boys in court.
galvin		Mr. Abraham...
abrams		Abrams...
galvin		Abrams. Yes. How are you today?
abrams		I'm fine.
galvin		Good.  You ever been inside a hospital?
abrams		Yes.
galvin		Ah. How did they treat you?
abrams		I don't know what you mean.
mickey		Been a long time, huh...?
galvin		I'm getting it back. Don't worry about me, Mick. I'm fine. D'you find the obstetric nurse?
mickey		Mary Rooney. She won't talk to me. I tried her at the hospital. I'm going to try her back at home. Read this.
galvin		So what?
mickey		So what...? The best is yet to come. Check the TV Guide. They got our Dr. Towler on a panel on GBH on Friday: 'The Healing Hand. The Experts Speak.'
galvin		They still have to take it to a jury.
mickey		What I'm saying, they're getting some help.
galvin		 So what do you want me to do? Concannon's going to try the case his way, I'm going to try it mine. You want me to go wee wee wee all the time because he's got some flack, got stories in the newspaper. I'm going to win this case.
mickey		John: gimme a cuesta-ray.
galvin		Oh shit, what's today?
mickey		Today is Tuesday. What?
galvin		I've got to go see Gruber.  What's the best cigars you have?
mickey		Give 'em a box of Macanudos.
galvin		Mickey: I'm supposed to meet somebody at O'Rourke's, I can't make it.
john		Here you are, Franky.
galvin		 Thanks. Can you go over and meet her...? Tell her I'll stop by when I'm through... Laura Fischer...
mickey		Sure. Who is she?
john		That's thirty-three bucks. Can you believe that...?
mickey		Oh, yeah. Your broad from last night.
john		Thanks, Franky.
galvin		Tell her that I'll meet her there, okay? See you tomorrow in the office.
galvin		We're doing fine.
doneghy		You said you're gonna call me up. You didn't call me up. Who do you think you are?  Who do you think you are...?
galvin		Hold on a second.
doneghy		I'm going to have you disbarred. I'm going to have your ticket. You know what you did? Do you know what you did?
galvin		It's all right, Mickey.
doneghy		You ruined my life, Mister... Me and my wife... and I am going to ruin yours...  Four years... my wife's been crying herself to sleep what they, what, what they did to her sister.
galvin		I swear to you I wouldn't have turned the offer down unless I thought that I could win the case...
doneghy		What you thought!? What you thought... I'm a workingman, I'm trying to get my wife out of town, we hired you, we're paying you, I got to find out from the other side they offered two hundred...
galvin		I'm going to win this case... Mist... Mr. Doneghy... I'm going to the Jury with a solid case, a famous doctor as an expert witness, and I'm going to win eight hundred thousand dollars.
doneghy		You guys, you guys, you're all the same. The Doctors at the hospital, you... it's 'What I'm going to do for you'; but you screw up it's 'We did the best that we could. I'm dreadfully sorry...' And people like me live with your mistakes the rest of our lives.
galvin		If I could accept the offer right now, I would.  They took it back.
doneghy		I understand.  I went to the Bar Association. They tell me you're going to be disbarred.
mickey		Franky can't make it. He had an appointment he forgot, he's going to see you later. I'm Mickey Morrissey, we're supposed to get to know each other.
laura		How'm I doing so far?
mickey		So far you're great. You got a cigarette?
laura		What are you drinking?  Jimmy...?
galvin		Dr. Gruber.
nurse		Dr. Gruber's not here today, Sir.
galvin		No... No...
nurse		Yes, Sir. He hasn't been in all day... He's not on the chart...
maid		What is it?
galvin		Dr. Gruber.
maid		Dr. Gruber's not in.
galvin		I had an appointment at his office, I think I must have got it wrong. We had a meeting...
maid		He's not in, Sir.
galvin		Where is he?
galvin		I... please. My wife... my wife's prescription has run out. If I can call him...
maid		Dr. Halpern's taking all his...
galvin		No, no, no. I have to talk to him. If I can only call him...
maid		 If you'd like Dr. Halpern's number...
mickey		Stearns, Harrington, you know who that is?
laura		Should I?
mickey		A huge law firm. Okay? They put him in the firm, he's married, everything's superb. Franky, he's starting to talk like he comes from Dorsetshire, some fuckin' place, 'You must drop by with Pat and me...' Okay...?
laura		Yes.
mickey		...and he's making a billion dollars every minute working for Stearns, Harrington, and he bought a dog, and everything is rosy.  Then Mr. Stearns, he tried to fix a case.
laura		The Big Boy did...?
mickey		That Frank was working on. Yeah. He thought Franky needed some help, so they bribed a juror. So Franky finds out. He comes to me in tears. He thinks that anybody who knows what a 'spinnaker' is got to be a saint. I told him 'Franky, wake up. These people are sharks. What do you think they got so rich from? Doing good?' He can't be comforted. He tells the boys at Stearns and Harrington they've disappointed him, he's going to the Judge to rat them out.
laura		Huh.
mickey		Before he can get there here comes this Federal Marshal, and Franky's indicted for Jury tampering, they throw him in jail, he's gonna be disbarred, his life is over.  How are you?
laura		 Me, too.
mickey		Okay. Now, so he's in jail. He, finally, he gets to see the light, he calls up Harrington, he says he thinks he made a mistake. As if by magic, charges against him are dropped, he's released from jail.  You like that story?
judge		What is it?
galvin		Thank you for seeing me.
judge		That's perfectly all right.
galvin		I need an extension for my case.
judge		You should have taken their offer. Especially if you were unprepared.
galvin		I had a witness disappear on me.
judge		That happens.
galvin		I could subpoena him if I had a week.
judge		I don't have a week. This case never should have come to trial. You know better. You're Mr. Independent. You want to be independent? Be independent now. I've got no sympathy for you.
voice		Continental Casualty...
galvin		Mr. Alito, please.
voice		Business hours are over, Sir. This is the switch...
galvin		I have to reach him. This is an emergency. Could you give me his home number?
voice		I'm sorry, Sir, we're not allowed...
galvin		...Would you, would you call him up. I'll give you my number, and ask him...
voice		I can't guarantee that...
galvin		I understand. Thank you, my name is Galvin. I'll be at the following number in a half an hour. It's urgent.
galvin		 Well, it's rather a shock to me, too; but it's my client's wishes... She's changed her mind as of this evening... I must say that I tried to dissuade her...
galvin		...Well, she, on the eve of the case... You understand... I think quite frankly she's come down with nerves and she'd like...
galvin		When was that arrived at...?  No?... you... uh. All right. No. That's fine. I understand. Sorry to bother you at home.
mickey		What happened...?
mickey		What happened, Joey...?
galvin		I can't talk now.
mickey		D'you meet with Dr. Gruber...?
galvin		Concannon got to my witness.  Dr. Thompson. This is Joseph Galvin, attorney for a Deborah Ann Kaye, we had some correspondence some time ago...? That's right. I'm sorry that we never got back, the case was postponed, and I've had a changeover in staff... I'm sorry to call you so late...
laura		Would you like me to leave...?  Is this a bad time -- ?
galvin		 What...?
laura		Is this a bad time.
galvin		We, we... No... we just had a small reversal in the case...  I have some, uh... I have some work to do...
laura		What happened...?
galvin		They, uh, they got to my witness.
laura		...and is that serious?
galvin		I've got to work...
laura		Do you want me to go...?
galvin		No, no, I'm just...
laura		Why don't you get some rest?
galvin		I've got to work.
laura		You can't work if you can't think. You get in bed. It's all right. I'll stay here with you. It's all right. Come on...
galvin		You're going to stay here...?
laura		Yes.
galvin		I'm only going to rest a little while.
towler		Dr. Robert Towler.
concannon		Don't equivocate. Be positive. Just tell the truth.
concannon		Whatever the 'truth' is, let's hear that. You were her doctor.
concannon		Say it.
concannon		You were the anesthesiologist at her delivery May twelfth, nineteen seventy...
concannon		Answer affirmatively. Simply. Keep those answers to three words. You weren't 'part of a group,' you were her anesthesiologist. Isn't that right?
concannon		You were there to help Dr. Marx deliver her baby. Were you not?
concannon		Anything special about the case?
concannon		 Thank you.
concannon		 Dr. Towler, who was in the operating room with you?
concannon		What did these people do when her heart stopped?
concannon		'Code Blue,' what does that mean...?
concannon		Why wasn't she getting oxygen...?
concannon		Tell me one?
concannon		She THREW UP IN HER MASK. Let's cut the bullshit. Say it: She THREW UP IN HER MASK.
concannon		...and her heart stopped and she wasn't getting oxygen.
concannon		And what did your team do...
concannon		...You brought thirty years of medical experience to bear. Isn't that what you did?
concannon		...A patient riddled with complications, questionable information on her, on her admitting form...
concannon		...to save her and to save the baby. Is that...
concannon		You reached down into death. Now, isn't that right?
concannon		 Tell us.
galvin		Dr. Thompson...?
galvin		Thank you for coming.
galvin		I have some errands to run, and then I thought we'd spend the evening...
galvin		I'm going to take you to the home to see the girl...
galvin		 Yes. Yes. I think so. I hope you'll be comfortable. I'm putting you up at my...
galvin		...apartment.  No, no. Please. You don't know who we're dealing with, I, please believe me, they...
galvin		These people play very rough. They don't want to lose this case. There's a lot of pressure they can bring to bear, I...
galvin		Please, Sir. Please. Humor me.
galvin		We'll spend the evening together, I'll put you up, you'll be very comfortable. Please.  Treat the place as your own. Please don't tell anyone you're here, I'll see you this evening. Thank you, and thank you for coming.
voice		 Mr. Galvin's...
galvin		Let me talk to Mickey.
mickey		 Yeah? How's our new witness?
galvin		D'you find the obstetric nurse?
mickey		She's workin' the late shift at the Hospital. She's at home now, I'm going over there to talk to...
galvin		Gimme the address. I'm gonna go. We're going to need her.
galvin		I'm Joe Galvin, I'm representing Deborah Ann Kaye, case against St. Catherine Laboure.
mary rooney		I told the guy I didn't want to talk to...
galvin		I'll just take a minute. Deborah Ann Kaye. You know what I'm talking about. The case is going to trial. Our chief witness is a Dr. David Gruber, you know who he is?
mary rooney		No.
galvin		He's the Assistant Chief of Anesthesiology, Massachusetts Commonwealth. He says your doctors, Towler and Marx, put my girl in the hospital for life. And we can prove that. What we don't know is why. What went on in there? In the O.R. That's what we'd like to know. Something went wrong. And you know what it was. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. What happened? The phone rang... someone got distracted... what?
mary rooney		...you got your doctor's testimony. Why do you need me?
galvin		I want someone who was in the O.R. We're going to win the case, there's no question of that. It's just a matter of how big...
mary rooney		I've got nothing to say to you.
galvin		You know what happened.
mary rooney		Nothing happened.
galvin		Then why aren't you testifying for their side?
galvin		I can subpoena you, you know. I can get you up there on the stand.
mary rooney		And ask me what?
galvin		Who put my client in the hospital for life.
mary rooney		I didn't do it, Mister.
galvin		Who are you protecting, then?
mary rooney		Who says that I'm protecting anyone?
galvin		I do. Who is it? The Doctors. What do you owe them?
mary rooney		I don't owe them a goddamn thing.
galvin		Then why don't you testify?
mary rooney		 You know, you're pushy, fella...
galvin		You think I'm pushy now, wait 'til I get you on the stand...
mary rooney		Well, maybe you better do that, then.  You know you guys are all the same. You don't care who gets hurt. You're a bunch of whores. You'd do anything for a dollar. You got no loyalty... no nothing... you're a bunch of whores.
young attorney		His name is Dr. Lionel Thompson. City College of New York, Class of twenty-six. Bachelor of Science; New York College of Medicine; sixteenth in a class of twenty-two. Nineteen seventy-six got a courtesy appointment, staff of anesthesiology, Easthampton Hospital for Women. Never married. Has no honors or degrees of any weight. Since nineteen seventy- five he's testified in twenty-eight court cases, twelve malpractice.  And he's black.
concannon		 And you get a black lawyer to sit at our table. Okay...?
young attorney		Yessir.
concannon		Good. What else do you do?
young attorney		...get the records of his testimony in the twelve malpractice cases.
concannon		Do it. We'll be at Locke-Obers.
mickey		Why is that?
mickey		...that's what the sister said. The chart said she ate nine hours prior to...
mickey		Is that what a good doctor would do? How old are you, please?
mickey		What qualifies you as an expert in anesthetics?
mickey		Easthampton Hospital for Women. Excuse me, what is that, a joke? Let me tell you something, Doctor, those men at Catherine Laboure. Men who are known not only in this city, but the world, were trying to save a woman's life. They were there, and here you are, four years later, read some hospital report, and say...
mickey		 She getting good care over there?
mickey		 Then what good would it do to ruin the reputation of two men, to help a girl whose life's not going to be changed in the least? You know what CODE BLUE means?
mickey		It's a common medical term.
galvin		We're going to lose.
galvin		Do you think it's my fault?
laura		Isn't there something you...
galvin		That's not the question. It's over.  Do you think that it's my fault? If I'd... if I'd... I never should have taken it. There was no way that I was going to win.
laura		You're talking like a drunk.
galvin		That's what I am.
laura		And it's over...?
galvin		Yes.
laura		Well, then what are you doing here?
galvin		I... do you want me to leave?
laura		You do what you want. You want to leave... You want to go kill yourself?
galvin		I...
laura		You want me to tell you it's your fault? It probably is. What are you going to do about it?  I thought it's not over till the jury comes in.
galvin		Who told you that?
laura		You told me so. Maybe you'd get some sympathy. You came to the wrong place.
galvin		And what makes you so tough?
laura		Maybe I'll tell you later.
galvin		Is there going to be a later...?
laura		Not if you don't grow up...
galvin		If I don't 'grow up...'
laura		You're like a kid, you're coming in here like it's Saturday night, you want me to say that you've got a fever -- you don't have to go to school...
galvin		 You, you don't under...
laura		Oh, yes, I do, Joe. Believe me. You say you're going to lose. Is it my fault? Listen! The damned case doesn't start until tomorrow and already it's over for you!
galvin		It's over!
laura		What is your wife's picture doing by the side of your...
galvin		What is that to you...?
laura		What would you like it to be to me...? I, I, I can't invest in failure.
galvin		Excuse me, I've...
galvin		 Stop pressuring me...
laura		You're pressuring yourself...
galvin		 No... no...
laura		Yes.  We've all got to let go.
galvin		 It means that much to me.
mickey		How are you holding up?
galvin		I'm swell.
mickey		And all we've got is a witch doctor!
galvin		Yeah.
mickey		Look at it this way: it's refreshing every time a Doctor takes the stand he's not a Jew.
bailiff		Hear ye, hear ye, hear ye, all persons having anything to do before the Honorable, the Justices of the Superior Court now sitting at Boston within and for the County of Suffolk, draw near, give your attendance and you shall be heard. God save the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
clerk		Deborah Ann Kaye versus St. Catherine Laboure, Robert S. Towler, M.D. and Sheldon F. Marx, M.D.
judge		Is the Plaintiff ready?
galvin		 Ready, your Honor.
judge		Defense...?
concannon		Ready for the Defense, your Honor.
judge		Let's begin.
galvin		It's a terrible thing to sit in judgment. So much rides on it. I know that you've thought, 'How can I be pure. How can I be impartial without being cold. How can I be merciful and still be just?' And I know that most of you have said some sort of prayer this morning to be helped. To judge correctly. We have the reputation of two men. Two well respected doctors and a renowned hospital before us. And with those two respected men we have my client, Deborah Ann Kaye...  Through the negligence of those respected men. We will show: One...
alito		Why did he go to see Mary Rooney?
young lawyer		She's the only nurse who isn't testifying for the Doctors.
alito		What did he find?
young lawyer		Nothing.
alito		How good's your intelligence?
young lawyer		Very good.
alito		And so what is the rest of his case aside from Dr. Thompson?
young lawyer		As far as we know, nothing.
alito		Thank Mr. Concannon for me. Please tell him I'll see him at his office.
concannon		Dr. Thompson, just so the Jury knows, you never treated Deborah Ann Kaye. Is that correct?
concannon		Engaged to render an opinion. For a price. Is that correct? You're being paid to be here today?
concannon		Are you board-certified in anesthesiology, Doctor?
concannon		...I'm sure it is, but this is Massachusetts, Doctor. Certified in Internal Medicine?
concannon		Neurology?
concannon		Orthopedics?
concannon		Do you know Dr. Robert Towler...?
concannon		How is that?
concannon		What book is that?
concannon		...of Anesthesiology?
concannon		How old are you?
concannon		Uh-huh. Still practice a lot of medicine?
concannon		Yes, we've heard that. Doctor: you testify quite a bit against other physicians? Isn't that right? You, you're available for that? When you're paid to be there?
concannon		Do you, indeed. I'll bet you do. Fine. Fine. We'll save the court the time. We will admit the Doctor as an 'expert witness,' fine.
judge		 All right. Mr. Galvin, you want to continue now, or we can resume with Dr. Thompson this afternoon.
galvin		 Thank you, your Honor, I'll continue. Dr. Thompson. Did you examine Deborah Ann Kaye last night at The Northern Chronic Care Facility?
concannon		Objection.
judge		Sustained. Yes. The witness will confine his testimony to review of the hospital records.
galvin		What?
judge		 I believe that's the law... is it not, Mr. Galvin...?
galvin		Dr. Thompson. From your review of the hospital records of May twelfth nineteen seventy-six.
galvin		In your opinion, what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye?
galvin		Now, Dr. Towler's testified that they restored the heartbeat within three or four minutes. In your opinion is his estimate correct?
judge		 Are you saying that a failure to restore the heartbeat within nine minutes in itself constitutes bad medical practice?
galvin		Your Honor!
judge		Yes, Mr. Galvin?
galvin		If I may be permitted to question my own witness in my own way...
judge		I'd just like to get to the point, Mr. Galvin. Let's not waste these people's time. Answer the question, Mr. Witness. Please. Would a nine minute lapse in restoring the heartbeat in and of itself be negligence?
judge		Then you're saying there's no negligence, based on my question?
judge		The Doctors were not negligent.
judge		Thank you.
galvin		I'm not through with the witness, your Honor. With all due respect if you are going to try my case for me I would appreciate it if you wouldn't lose it.
judge		Thank you. I think that's enough for this morning. I'll see the Plaintiff's Counsel in my chambers. Now, please.
judge		I got a letter from the Judge Advocate's office on you today, fella, you're on your way out... They should have kicked you out on that Lillibridge case. Now this is it today.
galvin		I'm an attorney on trial before the bar. Representing my client. My client, do you understand? You open your mouth and you're losing my case for me.
judge		Listen to me, fella...
galvin		No, no, you listen to me. All I wanted in this case is an even shake. You rushed me into court in five days... my star witness disappears, I can't get a continuance, and I don't give a damn. I'm going up there and I'm going to try it. Let the Jury decide. They told me Sweeney he's a hard- ass, he's a defendant's judge. I don't care. I said, the hell with it. The hell with it. I'll take my chances he'll be fair.
judge		 Galvin, look, many years ago...
galvin		And don't give me this shit, 'I was a lawyer, too.' 'Cause I know who you were. You couldn't hack it as a lawyer. You were Bag Man for the Boys and you still are. I know who you are.
judge		 Are you done?
galvin		Damn right I'm done. I'm going to ask for a mistrial and I'm going to request that you disqualify yourself from sitting on this case. I'm going to take a transcript to the State and ask that they impeach your ass.
judge		You aren't going to get a mistrial, boy. We're going back this afternoon, we're going to try this case to an end. Now you get out of here before I call the Bailiff and have you thrown in jail.
sally		What does it mean?  I... I mean we, you have other tactics...
galvin		We, yes. Yes. They, they present their side, and I get the same chance. To cross-examine... to... to...
sally		Are we going to win?  We have, you know, other tactics, though...
galvin		Yes.
concannon		No further questions.
galvin		Dr. Towler...
towler		Yes.
galvin		You have a record of what happened in the operating room...
towler		Yes, that's correct.
galvin		...there are notations every thirty seconds...
towler		Yes.
galvin		...of the procedures...
towler		Yes, the roving nurse...
galvin		But those notations stop...  ...Four-and-one-half minutes after Deborah Ann Kaye's...
towler		We, we were rather busy...
galvin		Four-and-one-half minutes after her heart stopped.  And they resume seven minutes...
towler		As I've said we had some more...
galvin		...they start again three minutes earlier...
towler		We had rather more important things on our mind than taking notes.  We were trying to restore her...
galvin		What happened in those three...
towler		...we were trying to restore her heartbeat.
galvin		What happened in those three minutes...?
towler		 We'd gone to 'Code Blue,' we were administering electro...
galvin		Why did it take that long to get her heartbeat...
galvin		...to get her heartbeat back...?
galvin		 ...almost nine minutes... causing brain damage.
concannon		Your Honor...! Your Honor...
towler		Brain damage could have been... it didn't necessarily take nine minutes, it could have been caused in two...
galvin		Wait, wait, wait, you're saying that her brain damage could have been caused by her being deprived of oxygen for two minutes...?
towler		Yes.
galvin		 Huh. And why is that?
towler		Because she was anemic.  It's right there on her chart. Her brain was getting less oxygen anyway...
galvin		No, you did fine.
galvin		No. No thank you, Doctor. You go home.
galvin		Yes... I... yes.
galvin		No. No. Thank you. You go home.
mickey		I'm going back to the office.
laura		Is it over?
galvin		No.
laura		What are you going to do?
galvin		I don't have a goddamned idea.
galvin		Okay. What do you do when you don't have a witness?
mickey		 You use their witness.
galvin		That's right.
mickey		I think we tried that. The case is over.
mickey		And how the fuck... You broke the first law that they taught you in law school. You never ask a question you don't know the answer to.  Frankie, wake up. You got your own expert witness says there was no negligence. It's over. Period. There'll be no other cases...
galvin		There are no other cases. This is the case.  Are you in or out...?
concannon		I know how you feel. I know you don't believe me, but I do. I'm going to tell you something I learned when I was your age. I had prepared a case. Mr. White asked me, 'How did you do.'  We're paid to win the case.
concannon		You finished your marriage. You wanted to come back and practice law. You wanted to come back to the world.
galvin		Why doesn't Mary Rooney testify?
galvin		Are you with me... are you awake...?
mickey		Yeah. I'm awake.
galvin		Rooney's protecting someone. Who is she protecting?
mickey		The Doctors.
galvin		She's protecting the Doctors she'd be up there on the stand...
mickey		 Read me what she said.
galvin		'You guys are a bunch of whores... uh... loyalty... you don't care who gets hurt... you don't have any loyalty...'
mickey		...one of the other nurses?
galvin		Who? They're all testifying. Everybody who was in the O.R.'s going to take the stand.
mickey		All right. Who wasn't in the O.R.?
galvin		What difference can that make...? All right...
galvin		Uh... the admitting nurse...
mickey		What did she do?
galvin		She didn't do anything. She took the patient's history and signed the charts. 'K.C.'  'Kathy Costello...'
mickey		The 'History'...?
galvin		 How old are you, how many children... when did you last eat...
galvin		Miss Rooney. Oh. Listen.  I understand what you are doing. And I want you to know it's all right.
rooney		What are you talking about?
galvin		About Kathy Costello.  I understand, and I don't blame you for shielding her.
galvin		I spoke to her, and everything is all right.
rooney		I, what are you talking about? I talked to her this morning, and she said...
galvin		 She told me.
rooney		 She did?
galvin		I just saw her.
rooney		In New York?
galvin		What?
rooney		You saw Kat in New York...  ...or is she in town? Is she in town...?
galvin		Thank you. I'm sorry.
galvin		We don't have anything from the Nurse Association?
mickey		The broad has disappeared...
galvin		The Hospital...?
mickey		No records since she quit in '76. She quit two weeks after the incident.
galvin		Thank you.
laura		I have to talk to you.
galvin		 ...tell them you're Dr. Somebody... you have to find this nurse...
mickey		...yeah... good...
galvin		...you need some old forms that she had... somebody's dying...
galvin		Sorry to bother you so late.
galvin		This is Mr. Goldberg in Accounting. We have some money here for you... This is the Mrs. Costello that used to be a nurse?  I'm sorry. I think we have our records mixed up.
galvin		Are you related to Kathy Costello, the R.N.?... I'm sorry...
mickey		...four years ago...
galvin		Hello. This is Mr. Dorchester in Records. We're looking for Kathy Costello...
mickey		 I need a cigarette...
galvin		Thank you. I'll hold.
galvin		Hello. This is Ross Williams. I'm calling from California. I'm sorry. I know it's late in the East, but this is an emergency. May I please speak to Kathy Costello?  I'm sorry. My records must be confused. This is the family of Kathy Costello...? Please excuse it.
female		 Hello.
galvin		Hello, I'm calling from...
voice		If you're selling something, I'm late for work...
galvin		I'm calling from Professional Nurse Quarterly...
voice		From the magazine?
galvin		This is Mr. Wallace in Subscriptions?
voice		How come you're calling me from...?
galvin		This is Miss Costello...?
voice		Yes. Price...
galvin		Pardon?
voice		Kathy Price.
galvin		We find that your subscription lapsed...
voice		 My subscription lapsed three years ago...
galvin		That's why I'm calling, Miss Price...
voice		Missus...
galvin		We have a renew-your-subscription offer...
voice		We get it at work. We get the magazine at work.
galvin		Yes, we know that you do. I have it in my files. That's at the Manhattan Health Center...
voice		No. At Chelsea Childcare. Okay. Look, call me Monday, hey? I'm late for work.
laura		 Hello? Mr. Gal... where are you...?
laura		You're going to New York? I... you're kidding... Because I'm going to New York.  I just got a call. I have to go sign papers. About my divorce. I... good. Frank. We'll meet there. All right?
laura		Can we meet there, Joe?
mickey		 You got a cigarette...?
laura		At the Beacon. On Fifty-third Street... we can spend the night.
laura		I feel the same way, Joe... I'll see you this afternoon?
mickey		You got any cigarettes?
kathy		Hi.
galvin		Hi. How are you doing?
galvin		I've been meaning to come in a long time.
kathy		You live in the neighborhood?
galvin		Uh-huh. My nephew's going to be staying with us in a few months, so I stopped by.
kathy		How old is he?
galvin		Four. You're great with these kids.
kathy		Thank you.
galvin		You're really...  You, are you the one they told me was the nurse?
kathy		Who told you that?
galvin		 Mrs...
kathy		Mrs. Simmonds.
galvin		Yes.
kathy		 I used to be a nurse.
galvin		That's a wonderful profession. My daughter-in-law's a nurse. What did you do, stop?
kathy		Yes.
galvin		How come you stopped?
galvin		 Will you help me?
galvin		What the hell are you doing here?
mickey		We got to talk.
galvin		What are you doing in New York...?
mickey		Come on, we'll get a cup of coffee...
laura		 It's all right... it's all right... it's all right... it's all right...
mickey		I talked to Johnnie White at the Bar Association.  How badly did she hurt us, Joe?
galvin		I don't know.
mickey		We got a mistrial, you know. Joe -- did you hear what I said...?
galvin		I don't want a mistrial.
mickey		He's not here.  All right.
galvin		Dr. Towler; page 406, 'Contraindications to general anesthetic. Ideally a patient should refrain from taking nourishment up to nine hours prior to induction of general anesthetic.' Does that sound familiar?
galvin		'Practice and Methodology in Anaesthesia.' General textbook on the subject. Is that correct?
galvin		And you wrote that...
galvin		 ...Page 414, 'If a patient has taken nourishment within one hour prior to inducement, general anesthetic should be avoided at all costs because of the grave risk the patient will aspirate food particles into his mask.' Is that what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye? She aspirated into her mask?
galvin		If she had eaten, say one hour prior to admission, the inducement of a general anesthetic... the type you gave her... would have been negligent...?
galvin		Thank you.
judge		Mr. Concannon...?
concannon		Nothing further, your Honor.
judge		Mr. Galvin, rebuttal?
galvin		 Katherine Price.
bailiff		Katherine Price...
bailiff		D'you swear that the evidence you are about to give will be the truth, the...
bailiff		...whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?
kathy		I do.
bailiff		Be seated.
galvin		Kathy Price...
kathy		Yes...
galvin		You were the Admitting Nurse at St. Catherine Laboure Hospital on May twelfth, nineteen seventy-six, the night Deborah Ann Kaye was admitted...
kathy		Yes.
galvin		You signed this form?
kathy		Yes.
galvin		These are your initials, 'K.C.'?
kathy		Kathy Costello. That's my maiden name.
galvin		D'you ask the patient when did she last eat?
kathy		Yes.
galvin		What did she say?
kathy		She said she had a full meal one hour before coming to the hospital.
galvin		One hour.
kathy		Yes.
galvin		And did you write the numeral 'one' down on the record, standing for one hour?
kathy		I did.
galvin		A single hour.
kathy		Yes.
galvin		 Your witness.
concannon		You are aware of the penalties for perjury...?
kathy		It's a crime.
concannon		Yes.  It is a crime. A serious crime.
kathy		I wouldn't do it.
concannon		You would not...?
kathy		No.
concannon		In fact, you've just taken an oath that you would not commit perjury. You've just sworn to that. Isn't that right?
kathy		Yes.
concannon		Just now...
kathy		Yes.
concannon		...sworn before God you would tell the truth?
kathy		 Yes.
concannon		Now. I'd like to ask you something: four years ago, when you were working as a nurse, are you aware that Drs. Towler and Marx based their treatment of Deborah Ann Kaye on this chart that you signed...?
kathy		I...
concannon		And wasn't that an oath...? These are your initials here: K.C. When you signed this chart you took an oath. No less important than that which you took today.  Isn't that right...?
kathy		I... yes.
concannon		Then, please, which is correct? You've sworn today the patient ate one hour ago. Four years ago you swore she ate nine hours ago? Which is the lie. When were you lying?
kathy		I...
concannon		You know these doctors could have settled out of court. They wanted a trial. They wanted to clear their names.
galvin		Objection!
concannon		And you would come here, and on a slip of memory four years ago, you'd ruin their lives.
kathy		They lied.
concannon		'They lied.' Indeed! When did they lie? And do you know what a lie is?
kathy		I do. Yes.
concannon		 You swore on this form that the patient ate nine hours ago.
kathy		That's not my handwriting.
concannon		You've just said you signed it.
kathy		Yes, I, yes, I signed it, yes. But I, I didn't write that figure.
concannon		You didn't write that figure. And how is it that you remember that so clearly after four years?
kathy		 Because I kept a copy. I have it right here.
concannon		Objection! This is ri... expect us to accept a photocopy, we have the original right...
judge		I'll rule on that presently.  Proceed.
judge		Please proceed.
concannon		...what in the world would induce you to make a photocopy of some obscure record and hold it four years? This is a... why? Why would you do that?
kathy		I thought I would need it.
concannon		And why, please tell us, would you think that?
kathy		After, after the operation, when that poor girl, she went in a coma. Dr. Towler called me in. He told me he had five difficult deliveries in a row and he was tired, and he never looked at the admittance form.  He said he'd fire me. He said I'd never work again... Who were these men...? Who were these men...? I wanted to be a nurse...
concannon		No further questions.
judge		You may step down.
judge		Mr. Galvin...?
galvin		Nothing further, your Honor...
judge		Mr. Concannon...?
judge		Mr. Concannon.
concannon		Thank you, your Honor. We object to the copy of the admissions form as incompetent and essentially hearsay evidence and cite McGee versus State of Indiana, U.S. 131 point 2 and 216 through 25 of the Uniform Code: 'The admission of a duplicate document in preference to an existing original must presuppose the possibility of alteration and so must be disallowed.' And, your Honor, having given the Plaintiff the leeway we would like your ruling on this issue now: we object to the admission of the Xerox form.
judge		...one moment, Mr. Concannon...
judge		The document is disallowed, the jury will be advised not to consider the testimony of Kathy Costello regarding the Xerox form.  It's unsubstantiated and we can't accept a copy in preference to the original...
concannon		Thank you, your Honor. Further: Ms. Costello is a rebuttal witness. As a 'Surprise Witness' she may only serve to rebut direct testimony. As her only evidentiary rebuttal was the admitting form, which has been disallowed I request that her entire testimony be disallowed and the jury advised that they must totally disregard her appearance here.
judge		I'm going to uphold that.
galvin		I object, your Honor...
judge		Overruled...
galvin		Exception!
judge		Noted. Thank you.  Miss Costello was a rebuttal witness. Her sole rebuttal was the document, which has been disallowed...
alito		Legally it's over. Concannon was brilliant.
brophy		Tell me about Kaitlin Costello.
alito		There's nothing to tell. It's been stricken from the record.
brophy		I know. Did you believe her?
judge sweeney		Mr. Galvin...?
galvin		You know, so much of the time we're lost. We say, 'Please, God, tell us what is right. Tell us what's true. There is no justice. The rich win, the poor are powerless...' We become tired of hearing people lie. After a time we become dead. A little dead. We start thinking of ourselves as victims.  ...a fervent, and a frightened prayer.
galvin		In my religion we say, 'Act as if you had faith, and faith will be given to you.'  Thank you.
judge		Have you reached a verdict?
foreman		Your Honor, we have agreed to hold for the Plaintiff... but on the size of the award, are we bound...
judge		You are not bound by anything, other than your good judgment, based on the evidence.
judge		Yes. You are.
judge		Please retire and...
mickey		 You want to run across the street and get a drink?
****Dialogues from script :Very_Bad_Things.txt****

moore		That ought to be about the end of that.
fisher		Yup.
liz		This is ridiculous.
fisher		Government cutbacks.
liz		Why can't we do it through the mail?
fisher		 We missed the deadline.
liz		Can't we do it on the phone?
fisher		I don't think so.
liz		Why is this Kid staring at me?
fisher		I'm not sure.
liz		 Did you send in all of the deposit checks?
fisher		I think so.
liz		 What do you mean, you think so?
fisher		I sent a lot of checks, I'm not sure what all of them are.
liz		The wedding cake check?
fisher		Sent it.
liz		Photographer?
fisher		Sent it.
liz		Florist?
fisher		Yup.
liz		Caterer?
fisher		Yes.
liz		Hotel for my parents, the tent, the band, the Judge...
fisher		 I think I forgot the tent.
liz		 You forgot the tent?
fisher		I think so.
liz		Why?
fisher		Why what?
liz		Why did you forget the tent check?
fisher		I didn't mean to Liz. I'm sorry.
liz		You can't play around with these tent people.
fisher		I'm not playing around. I forgot.
liz		What else have you forgot?
fisher		How could I know what else I forgot?
liz		I'm working my ass off here. I've taken care of absolutely everything Keith.
fisher		Because you wanted to. You wanted this to be your wedding not your parent's.
liz		Don't you dare.
fisher		What?
liz		Don't you put this on me. Don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't...
fisher		 Stop it. I'm sorry.
liz		 You know how important this is to my mother. You know that.
fisher		I'm sorry. I'm sorry I forgot the tent. I don't think I forgot anything else.
liz		 I bet you didn't forget the bachelor party checks.
fisher		Are we going to do this again?
liz		I'm just saying I bet those checks all found the mailboxes.
fisher		I wouldn't know.
liz		It amazes me how organized you and your little fun bunch can be when it comes time to mobilize to Vegas.
fisher		 They organized this, not me. I have nothing to do with it.
liz		Well it's bad timing.
fisher		How do you figure?
liz		Right before the wedding?
fisher		It's a bachelor party. You sort of have to do it before the wedding.
liz		I suppose Boyd is the creative force behind all this.
fisher		He is.
liz		He's a moron.
fisher		He's my friend. He's not a moron.
liz		David Boyd is a big sack of hot gas.
boyd		 Could you please wait off the property?
man		We're just trying to sneak a peak.
boyd		Just stay off the property until I'm off the phone.
man		Why?
boyd		Cause that's the way they do it.
boyd		 So it's five guys, Hard Rock Casino. Nine hundred bucks and you do the thing with the rubber hoses. Are you in? Tina, are you in? Good.
boyd		David Boyd, nice to meet you.
liz		Why do you feel the need to explore this side of your personality?
fisher		What are you talking about?
liz		I'm talking about the kind of people you hang out with... about growing up, assuming responsibility of yourself.
fisher		I asked you to marry me. I'm ready for marriage. That's responsibility. That's growth.
liz		I just think that at some point you're going to have to re-evaluate some of your friendships...
fisher		Who else?
liz		Charles Moore for instants.
fisher		You don't like Moore? Since when?
liz		It's not that I don't like him. But the wedding has really got me thinking and... I just keep myself opening up. Growning. And I want you keeping up with me here.
fisher		What does Moore have to do with your growing?
liz		I just don't see him in the big picture.
fisher		I've known him since Cub Scouts.
liz		He's weird.
fisher		He's quiet.
liz		He's weird.
fisher		He just doesn't talk a lot.
liz		Why? What's his problem?
fisher		He's a great chef.
liz		He's weird. And I expect more from you.
fisher		You expect more what?
liz		You're going to be hungover for three days. Like those guys on "Oprah" that get drunk and have disgusting sex with prostitutes and then say their vows with the stench of cheap hotel whore sex all over them.
fisher		Time out.
liz		It's vile!
fisher		That's absurd.
liz		I've seen it on television.
fisher		I'm not going to marry you with the smell of prostitutes on my body.
liz		 Is that to much to ask!?!
fisher		You will not be common!!!
liz		Marriage license please.
liz		Do you love me?
fisher		Of course.
liz		How much?
fisher		With all my heart.
liz		 Kiss me...?
michael		That's just insecurity.
fisher		I don't know. She's really been stressing out.
michael		Just insecurity. Nut crunching gut splinters.
fisher		What does that mean?
michael		It means she's insecure.
fisher		About what?
michael		 I'm amazed the windows don't blow out of their fucking sockets with all the repressed, ass-puckering rage in these soul-less lizards.
fisher		 I just want her to be happy.
michael		Same alarm clock every morning, same two pops on the same snooze button...  Same shower, towel, toothbrush, razor, hair gel. It's a fucking epidemic Fisher and you better start addressing it. You're getting married and I'm not going to candy-coat it. It just gets worse. It's an eighteen wheel cement mixer that will crush every bone in your body.
fisher		I'm not breathing right.
michael		You're not breathing right?
fisher		Lately I'll just start getting lightheaded, dizzy, and I realize I haven't breathed in like two minutes.
adam		 We're leaving from my house in three hours. If you want to come, get your numbers in order by then.
michael		First of all...
adam		 No first of all. I'm not in a game mood.
michael		You're interrupting a personal conversation.
adam		 Sorry Fish.
fisher		We'll be ready Adam.
adam		I know you'll be.  Three hours.
michael		I don't care for him.
fisher		He's your brother.
michael		So?
fisher		 Keith Fisher.
liz		 We've got problems here.
fisher		Problems?
liz		Seating problems.
fisher		Okay.
liz		Keith do not trivialize this.
fisher		I'm not. What's the problem?
liz		We're supposed to have gold-trimmed padded seats, now they're telling me that there was a mistake and we can't have padded.
fisher		What kind of seats can we have?
liz		Not padded ones.
fisher		So what do we do?
liz		You go down there.
fisher		Go down where?
liz		Go down to the seat place and straighten this out.
fisher		Honey I don't have the time...
liz		I need your help.
fisher		We're leaving in three hours.
liz		 I need your help.
fisher		I'll call them from the road.
liz		Do you love me?
fisher		More than I ever imagined being able to love anyone ever.
liz		Take care of those chairs.
fisher		We're leaving from Adam's. Come send me off.
liz		Maybe.
lois		Notice how clean and well-behaved they all appear, respectable members of modern society. Timmy, Adam Jr., take a good look at this...
lois		...We will compare these before photos with whatever form of degeneration presented to us in 24 hours, no matter how low, how vile...
liz		...embarrassing, shameful...
lois		...regression of Modern Man to his most primitive, ape-like state...
liz		The stone age.
lois		The post-Vegas Man.
liz		A mutant species.
lois		Okay boys, smile!
lois		All right. As you were.
liz		Will you please call the chair people?
fisher		I will.
liz		Do you love me?
fisher		Of course.
liz		Just call and let me know that your okay.
fisher		I love you.
liz		Have a nice bachelor party.
adam		Not on your life.
boyd		You're a fucking moron.
michael		It's my fucking opinion.
adam		It's really a stupid opinion. You have developed an annoying habit of talking for what seems to be no other reason than to hear yourself speak.
michael		Because my opinion threatens yours, it's poorly developed?
adam		No, because your opinions are idiotic and have nothing to do with what any given conversation is about, which makes 85% of your eagerly injected thought process highly offensive to me.
michael		Boyd brought up divorce statistics.
boyd		The hell I did!
michael		The hell you didn't!
boyd		The hell I did!
michael		You said one in two marriages end in divorce.
boyd		I never heard that.
fisher		You said that Boyd.
boyd		Well, I didn't mean it.
michael		You're an asshole Adam.
adam		You're an asshole.
michael		Oh, and why am I an asshole?
adam		Multiple reasons.
michael		Name one.
adam		I don't have to...
fisher		SHUT UP!
fisher		 Is this Pico Party rents? Can I speak to whomever is in charge of chairs? Chairs.
boyd		Four hours and fifteen minutes. I can make Vegas in 3 and change.
adam		I'm not getting a ticket.
fisher		 Tony? This is Keith Fisher. You're doing my wedding and I'm calling about the chair situation. Yeah, I'll hold.
boyd		Who's up for making some real money?
adam		Don't even start.
boyd		You want to hear me out?
michael		Nope.
boyd		Moore?
moore		No I don't.
boyd		Fish?
fisher		Not really.  Yes, the Fisher wedding chairs...
boyd		Prison Communication Systems.  An acquaintance friend of mine is professionally involved with a communications outfit in Denver that I just happen to know for a fact is about to be rewarded a very large, exclusive contract to rewire every state prison in Colorado. Yes sir.
fisher		 No, I'm holding for Tony. In chairs. Keith Fisher. Okay.
boyd		That would translate to government guaranteed contract in excess of 35 million dollars.
fisher		 We need padded chairs.
boyd		Or a stock kick of approximately 125% on shares which are currently sitting around $4.38, or, in plain English...
adam		SHUT UP!
michael		NO!
boyd		What is wrong with you people? I'm a helper here.
moore		Your investment ideas never work out.
boyd		That's the whole point. They rarely work out. But on occasion they do. And when they do, they do big.
michael		Your ideas never work out.
boyd		Oh really? Starbucks?
adam		That's one idea.
fisher		 No... we want padded chairs... okay?
boyd		One idea that if you had fucking listened to, you would each be worth approximately 15 million dollars.
adam		You can't keep bringing up Starbucks. That was your only real hit in like 75 tries.
boyd		I set up Fisher with the broker that found his house. Took care of that one, didn't I?  Prison Communications.
moore		I don't think so Boyd.
boyd		Fine. Don't come crying to Boyd. No sir.
adam		All the bullshit aside Fish, we've been coming up here for what, eight years?
boyd		More.
adam		Over eight years of some of the hardest raging experiences of my life.
moore		Good times.
michael		Drum banging real times.
fisher		Real times.
adam		They've all been real times. And as you prepare to enter into a new phase of life, as you prepare for new roles; father, husband, teacher, you will, as I have, come to except the letting go of of old ways. Soon, the mellowing will begin...
boyd		But not tonight.
moore		Not tonight.
adam		Tonight we return once again to the cave. Tonight we let the monsters out. We fill ourselves with the spirits of Genghis Kahn, Joe Namath, JFK, Paton, Lombardi, Hemingway...
michael		 Franco mother-fucking Harris!
moore		Keith Richards, Dean Martin...
boyd		Jack Kerouback, Herman Melville, Henry Miller and Hunter S. Thompson. I dedicate this evening to fear and to major loathing. So from sun set to sun rise, let me be heard...
all		He who acts the beast, rids himself of the pain of being a man!
fisher		Hi.
liz		Hi.  Are you calling from jail?
liz		Well, the night is young. Did you straighten out the chair situation?
liz		That's sweet.
liz		Well you should.
liz		Just a bit of organizing.
liz		Yeah. Nesting.
liz		Go have fun. Not too much.
boyd		I don't hate women.
michael		You hate women.
boyd		False.
michael		True.
boyd		Not true.
michael		You have a King fantasy.
boyd		I am a lover. In Africa, you can stay king as long as you can service your women every night.
michael		And what happens when you can't?
boyd		 New king.
adam		No. No. No. It's what my father said to me. He said it and he meant it... He said to me... He said, Adam, he said... He told me and I heard him... he said...  Hell he said so many Goddamn things I can't remember everything he said for Christsake.
fisher		Right! That's exactly what I'm saying. My father said, first of all, I'm your father not your friend. I'm your father.
adam		Are you solid with that?
fisher		No. I think it's fucked.
adam		Then fuck what your father said, cause I'm gonna tell you right now... You'll know what it's all about, why you got married and why you love her when you wake up at three in the morning, and the streetlight's coming through the window and it's just catching a corner of her face, like a sleeping angel. And her hair smells sweet and she's your's. She's all your's. Do you see where I'm going here?
boyd		If I'm the king of Israel, I say to myself, King, I say to myself, King... Take a good look around. What do I see?
michael		Israel doesn't have a King.
boyd		Then what do they have?
michael		They have a president. A Benjamin Yahoo something.
boyd		I say to myself, look at the map. Look what's all around you. People who wish bad bad things for you and your people. For thousands of years the Jews are fighting everybody. It used to be they'd throw rocks, then the iron revolution and they would attack with spears. Then the gunpowder revolution. Now they're shooting fire power back and forth, all day bullets flying, babies getting shot.
michael		What's your point?
boyd		Now if I'm the King of Israel and all these sand niggers are armed to the gills and you know it's just a matter of time... right? Am I right?
michael		The Israelis can protect themselves. They got the Mossad thing happening. Mossad's for real, man. They scalp babies.
boyd		There's my point exactly.
michael		What? What's your point?
boyd		Take Mexico.
michael		What?
boyd		Look up the chickens, dig up the holy dirt, pack up the wailing crying wall thing they bang their heads on all day long, stick it all on a big fucking tug boat. The whole country picks up and takes Mexico.
fisher		The bucks gonna stop right here.  If my son doesn't know the six New England states, if he has trouble with geography, I won't stick it in his face. I'll help the little guy. I'll put him in the car and take him out there. I'll take him to Maine for a big Lobster dinner, go skiing in Vermont, hot dogs at Yankee Stadium... I won't stare him down.
adam		Don't ever stare him down.
fisher		I won't do it.
adam		Don't eyeball your kids.
boyd		The Mexicans would love it. They're dying for a little order down there. They need direction.
michael		They need leadership.
boyd		That's what I'm saying. Let the Israelis straighten it up. They got plenty of room down there, number one. Plus, and this is just a plus, they kind of look alike -- the Jews and the Mexicans. So I think on a whole your average Joe Mexican is gonna have less of a problem getting his head around the whole assimilation thing. Am I right?
adam		I tell mine that they're little men. I tell them they're strong. They make me feel joy. I let 'em know. So they really know that I need them just as much. You know. Just as much man. And you know, you're their godfather...
fisher		I know and I'm honored...
adam		If anything ever happens to me...
fisher		I know...
adam		Y'see? That's the real point here. That's what I'm driving for, when the big storm comes and knocks down all the forests and the rocks fall down and the leave's are bare. What's left? The little trees, the little fellas that the storm didn't see. The tiny little...
moore		The stripper's here.
adam		 Excellent.
boyd		Gentlemen, this is Tina.
tina		Who's the lucky groom?
tina		Hi Fisher.
michael		God, I love women.
boyd		 She's all your's Fish. Anything you want. Happy bachelor party.
fisher		I can't.
michael		 I'll take a ride.
fisher		Go for it.
michael		 Come on.
tina		 You said just dancing.
boyd		 I'll take good care of you.
tina		 Lucky me.
moore		She's fucking hot!
adam		I need a drink.
boyd		Tequila...
tina		Oh come on.
michael		I want to play.
tina		It's gonna cost extra.
michael		I will pay.
tina		Easy baby, easy.
moore		 Cool.
michael		I really fucked up.
moore		Jesus.
michael		 I was just playing... we were playing just playing around.
adam		 She's dead.
fisher		No... No.
moore		How do you know she's dead.
adam		She's got no fucking pulse.
boyd		You don't know what you're doing.
boyd		 Where do you look? What side of the neck?
moore		Left side.
adam		Either side you idiot. I'm calling
fisher		 What happened? Oh my God...
michael		We were playing... she slipped... she hit her head.
adam		 Playing?
boyd		Wait!
adam		What?
boyd		What are you doing?
adam		 What are you talking about?
boyd		What do you think you are doing?
adam		I'm calling the ambulance.
boyd		Just wait a second. Wait one second. Okay. What are you doing?
adam		Calling the ambulance.
boyd		Why?  Why? She's dead. Why are you calling an ambulance?
adam		We have to call the ambulance.
boyd		Why?
fisher		Oh, Jesus... call the police.
boyd		No.
fisher		She's dead. Call somebody!
boyd		Shut up.
boyd		Shut up.
michael		She slipped.
adam		 What did you do?
michael		 You never heard of accidents?! Get off me!
boyd		Everybody shut up. LISTEN TO ME!
boyd		Listen to me. Please. Everybody just calm down a bit here. Okay... First... are we sure she's dead?
adam		Her head's bashed in and her heart isn't beating.
moore		She's dead.
michael		It was an accident!
boyd		Are you sure this was an accident?
adam		You're a lying deviant. What did you do?!
michael		The floor was wet. She slipped!
adam		Why was the floor wet?
michael		I don't know why the floor was wet!
adam		Why?!
boyd		Stop it! Listen to me. Let's just take a second here and take hold of the situation, OK? Let's just review our options here.
adam		We have a dead woman bleeding all over the bathroom. What options? Call the police.
boyd		Call the police. Okay, that's one option.
adam		That is not an "option." There is no multiple choice here.
boyd		Yes sir, there sure is an option here. There are always options.
moore		I've never seen a dead person.
fisher		 Fuck! Fuck you fucking guys!
boyd		Well we can definitely call the police. That's an easy call. If we call the police... What happens?  Your brother... got a little out of control... they were making love... and he got a little excited... and he, ah, sort of beat her head into the side of a toilet, while he choked her to death with a rubber hose...
adam		Stop it!
boyd		There's more.
adam		Just stop.
boyd		Just giving the facts.
adam		I'm calling the police.
boyd		What were we doing officer? Why didn't we help her? Well... we're all a bit high, you know, bachelor party, that kind of thing. Fisher here is getting married in three days... Beautiful wife... he didn't have anything at all to do with it... It was all Michael here... just Michael...
adam		You don't play games with Homicide police. There are no options here. There is not the luxury of worrying about how the fallout will settle.
boyd		I've known him for while maybe twenty years kind of a close friend but hey what the heck officer, take him away, go on it's for his own good.
fisher		 What are you talking about? Adam's right. We don't have a choice here Boyd... I mean what are you talking about? What options???
boyd		 Bury her out in the desert.
adam		 Sure, why not.
moore		He's right.
boyd		We can take her out to Red Rock. Find some quiet place... and put her in the ground.
adam		You don't just casually walk out of a Vegas Casino with a dead woman.
boyd		We can do this. We can get her out of here.
adam		Have you completely lost your mind? So you get her out of here. So you get her out into the desert somehow, without anybody seeing, so what, you don't think at some point somebody might notice that she's gone?
boyd		Nobody knows she's here. I called her personally. Nobody knows.
fisher		Oh for Christsake Boyd. Somebody must know she's here.
boyd		Nobody knows.
adam		Her blood is all over the bathroom. I'd say that's a bit of a DNA problem.
boyd		It's a marble floor, we can clean it up.
fisher		Oh God. This is insane.
boyd		What's insane is the fact that Michael here put a fucking girl's head through a toilet. That's insane.
moore		They'll get us on accessory to murder.
adam		Bullshit it's not accessory. I didn't do shit. You call the cops, you explain it was an accident...
boyd		Her fucking head was caved in.
adam		So! I didn't fucking do it!
boyd		She's got bondage burns on her wrists. There's blow all over the room, Moore looks like he went at it with a mountain lion. This room looks like the Manson Family stayed here a month. Michael goes down, we all go down.
moore		I'm not going to ruin my life over a dead whore.
adam		That's a horrible ugly comment. "Dead whore?" She's a person!
fisher		 I'm getting married...
michael		I'm sorry... I'm sorry... I'm sorry...
adam		I've got a wife and two boys.
boyd		 Lets take a vote. A simple vote. Two choices; we clean up the mess. Right now. Bury it in the desert, go home, and never look back. Or, we can call the police... Open those doors, roll the dice and hope that it's only Michael who falls. Let's take a vote. Desert... or police?
boyd		Desert.
moore		 Fucking desert.
michael		 Desert.
boyd		Nobody knows she's here.
fisher		Good God... Good God...
adam		How do we get her out of here?
boyd		Wrap her up in blankets. Bring the car around to the back of the hotel, throw her off the balcony, put her in the car... Done.
adam		 You don't think someone will have a problem with a body being thrown off a balcony?
boyd		We check out the area and wait for a time when it's clear.
adam		What about the blood?
boyd		Someone goes to Walmart, gets some buckets, brushes, mops, Spic and Span, the works.
adam		Have you ever done this before?
boyd		The reality is, you take away the horror of this situation, take away the tragedy of the death, take away the moral and ethical implications of all the crap you have had conditioned, beaten, into your head since grade one. What are we left with? What? A 115 lb. problem. 115 lbs. that must be moved from point A to point B. Now, a straight line in the shortest distance but we are denied the luxury of a visible straight line. But that line exists and I see it. I see that line. Trust me. Adam. Trust me... I can take care of this.
boyd		 What is it?
boyd		 What?
boyd		She's not here.
boyd		She's here. She's just... Hold on a second.
ralph		Okay. Hi.
ralph		So who's the lucky guy?
boyd		Who?
ralph		The groom?
fisher		Me.
ralph		Cool...  You all dudes from L.A.?
boyd		Yup.
ralph		Doing the bachelor party thing?
boyd		That's right.
ralph		Sin City. Devil's Playground. The Black Bitch. All day every day.  Where's Tina?
boyd		She's in the bathroom... she's still working.
ralph		She's still working?
boyd		That's right.
ralph		Sweet deal.
ralph		Is everything okay?
boyd		Great. Fine. Perfect.
ralph		 I'm gonna just tell her I'm waiting.
boyd		She's in there!
ralph		I'm just gonna let her know I'm here.
ralph		My God!
boyd		Help me! Don't let him bleed on the carpet!
boyd		He'll bleed out! He'll bleed dry. Help me hold the door.
moore		Oh God.
boyd		 All right people. New plan. Not even a new plan so much as a modification of the old plan.
fisher		 I'm calling the police.
boyd		So help me God you touch that phone and I bury you with them.  Surrender is no longer an option. I repeat -- It is not an option. Is there anyone who does not understand that?
boyd		A little gut check time fellas. A time for some serious self- exploration. How do I function? For real? No more bullshit. Can I keep my cool when they bounce my bananas? When they won't play my fucking song? etc, etc. Do you get me? Do you get me?
michael		Not really. no.
boyd		Not a problem. Understand not my words, but follow my orders. Follow my orders
boyd		Let's do it people.
boyd		All right. Looking good people.
adam		I'm not wrecking the transmission!
adam		Wait. Wait a minute.
boyd		What?
adam		We can't do this.
boyd		We've already done this.
adam		No, I mean the suitcases. We can't bury them in suitcases.
michael		Why?
adam		It's sacrilegious.
boyd		How do you figure?
adam		According to Jewish law, the blood and limbs are considered to be part of the human being. They must be buried together or their souls won't rest in peace.
boyd		So that's what we're doing.
adam		No we're not. The bodies are all mixed up. We can't do this to them.
boyd		She's Asian. They don't have Jews in Asia.
adam		That is absolutely not true.
boyd		 Well what the fuck are we supposed to do?
adam		 Open the suitcases, unpack the body parts and reunite the limbs.
fisher		No way.
adam		It has to be done.
boyd		We have to get going.
adam		I am not flexible on this.
boyd		Alright. Let's do it.
boyd		I got her arm.
moore		Here's his head.
boyd		Now I am the last to say that we have done here is a good thing. It's not. It's not a good thing. But it was, given the circumstances, the smart play. We did what had to be done. And... well... I'm proud of us. I'm proud of each and every one of us. We performed. Under the most complex and nerve shattering of situations, we stood fast and we delivered. I feel proud.
adam		We are all going straight to hell. Either hell or prison, whichever comes first.
boyd		Wrong. That is flat out wrong. hell is for cowards, for hypocrites who fear to live by the strength of their own convictions. This is war. Given the circumstances and given the fact that we are alive and they are not, we have chosen life over death. Two wrongs don't make a right. So our conviction and execution would only mean more death here, not less.
moore		Boyd... I don't know man... It just seems to me that ever since you took Tony Robbins self-help thing... you're all fucked-up in the head.
fisher		I got to agree with that.
boyd		That is a load of shit. Personal power has nothing to do with any of this. Tony Robbins has helped me to unlock energy and see my options more clearly, yes, but to give him credit for this, for all of this... Well that's just more than the man deserves.
fisher		I think we should say some words over the grave.
boyd		What kind of words?
fisher		I'm talking about prayer.
boyd		Go ahead.
fisher		Dear God... I don't know how to pray.
michael		Just go ahead and say what's on your mind.
boyd		Speak from the heart my brother.
adam		This is pathetic.
michael		You're pathetic.
adam		 What did you say?
michael		 You're not a team player.
adam		Don't point at me.
michael		You never were a team player. That's why you never had any friends.
adam		I have plenty of friends.
michael		The hell you do.
adam		The hell I don't.
michael		You have acquaintances -- business friends and superficial golf buddies. You have always been a fringe player. You have some serious male on male intimacy problems.
adam		What are you fucking talking about?
fisher		Michael, now is probably not the best time for this.
boyd		No, this is the perfect time. This is real time. Adam. Your brother and I, as well as several others present, have always suspected that you...  ...are a fully repressed, living in major denial, locked down, fly-boy butt-fucker.
fisher		Dear God, please forgive us for what we have done here tonight. We have lost our way. Speaking for myself, let me say...
fisher		Hey. It's me.
fisher		We're on our way home. I just... we're running a little late.
fisher		No. Just like an hour or so.
fisher		Okay.
fisher		What!
fisher		I left a message. I think it's going to be okay.
fisher		No. No. I'll see you in about four hours.
adam		I want you to hear me out.
fisher		What.
adam		You and I have done nothing. You especially. We are innocent.
fisher		I don't think so.
adam		We are. We go to the police. We tell them the truth. Now. Before they find out. Now. We save ourselves.
boyd		Let's go!
adam		We save ourselves. It's our only chance.
boyd		The past is the past. Today is the beginning of the rest of our lives.
moore		Today is the best day of the rest of our lives.
fisher		 The first day.
moore		What?
fisher		 It goes; "Today is the first day of the rest of our lives."
boyd		However it goes, the point is, nobody says anything to anyone ever. Right?... Right?
michael		Right.
moore		That's right.
boyd		You're goddamn right. Adam?
adam		 Right.
lois		 Group shot. Here we go boys! Yes sir, compare and contrast time!
lois		Feeling a little HUNGOVER are we? Do you kids take note?  See how pathetic Daddy and his jackass friends look?!
liz		What's the word on the chairs?
fisher		I'm working on it.
liz		Then you'd better work on it in the car. We gotta go see the Judge.
judge tower		We don't say "love, honor and obey" anymore. And we don't say "till death do us part." Today we say, "respect, honor and cherish, as long as you both do love." How does that sound?
liz		I kind of like "till death do us part." I mean, this is forever. In sickness and in health, through good times and bad. Honey, what do you think?
fisher		Yea... It's great... seems like... I don't know you've got all the important stuff in there.
judge tower		All right then. It's refreshing to see two young people not afraid of real commitment. Will you have friends or family saying words -- singing or anything?
fisher		 Are we supposed to?
judge tower		It's not a question of supposed to, it's an entirely personal decision... Some do some don't.
liz		We don't think so. I mean, we just want the singing when I come out.
judge tower		Okay great. What will that be?
liz		We're just going to have the leader of the band sing alone with his guitar. Acoustic.
judge tower		What song?
liz		"You Send Me."
judge tower		Oh I know that. How does it go...
liz		You know,  Honey, sing it for Judge Tower.
fisher		 "Darli...ing you, ewe ewe ewe, send me, Darli...ing you, ewe ewe ewe, mend me.
liz		"At first I thought it was infatuation... But oh it's lasted so long..."
fisher		You did all right dad.
fisher		You never walked away dad. You could have walked away.
fisher		Harry Chaplin. "Cats in the Cradle."
fisher		I love you dad.
fisher		Where did you get that?
michael		At the newsstand on 3rd.
adam		 Fucking Boyd. That fucking idiot. They're on to us.
michael		They're not on to us. I'm gonna call Boyd.
boyd		Oh that's just nothing. That's just a missing persons thing, that's all.
michael		You said nobody would miss her.
boyd		No. I said nobody knew she was coming to the hotel.
adam		 Boyd you idiot, the shit's coming down!
boyd		What does that mean?
adam		You got us into this mess.
boyd		Oh I did? I think it was your little rat fuck brother who decided to play Hamburger Helper with the hooker's head.
adam		 Would you, shush?! These phones aren't secure!
boyd		Lighten up Adam. Show some character.
adam		Don't talk to me about character.
boyd		Watch the tone fella.
adam		Fuck you Boyd!
boyd		Any time fat boy!
liz		I love it. I just love, love, love, love it.
maggie		Are you guys gonna fill this place with kids? You sure got room for them.
liz		We're in no hurry. I think we'll take some time to enjoy each other, enjoy our freedom before we surrender ourselves to kids.
maggie		Take your time. I wish I had.
liz		 We will.
maggie		So where to on the honeymoon?
fisher		This is our honeymoon.
liz		After the wedding, which we're paying for ourselves, and this house...
maggie		Smart. Smart. Smart. Think big picture, take your time. I wish I had.
liz		That's our plan.
maggie		Well, I just need your signature on these contracts and a deposit check so I can get the ball rolling.
fisher		How much?
maggie		Five percent should be fine for now, which is, let's see, twenty thousand dollars. Of course I'll be splitting my commission with your friend.  He is a very sweet man.
kids		 "Do your balls hang low, do they wobble to and fro, can you tie 'em in a knot, can you tie 'em in a bow?"
adam		 Knock it off!
lois		Don't snap at them!
adam		They're driving me nuts!
lois		They're singing.
adam		 It's a disgusting song.
suit		How ya doing?
adam		 What?
suit		What's that?
adam		What did you say?
suit		I said how's it going?
adam		I didn't hear you.
suit		Well that's what I said.
suit		How do you like that mini-van?
lois		Honey, go in there and get some Starbursts.
adam		What?
lois		They're screaming for Starbursts.
adam		Later.
lois		They're screaming like monsters and it's giving me a headache. Go get some fucking Starbursts.
adam		Fine.
adam		Oh my God.
cop		You okay?
clerk		Just leave it!
adam		 It's okay.
clerk		Leave it!
clerk		GET OUT!
adam		 I'm sorry.
adam		 I'm sorry.
clerk		GET OUT!
suit		The wife's begging me for one. How's the mileage.
lois		Where's the candy?
adam		There is no candy!
lois		What do you mean? It's it's a goddamn Mini-Mart?!
kids		Dad?!
adam		Have you thought about what I said?
fisher		Jesus Adam, can we not get into this now please?
adam		I got a migraine like a little monkey kicking in the side of my skull, Mike Tyson with a fucking sledge hammer trying to crack...
fisher		 I got you.
adam		 Where's the bathroom?
boyd		Fisher had a less than normal relationship with that Donkey.
fisher		 You always were a jealous man.
michael		The problem was coaching. Poor leadership.
boyd		The problem was our quarterback had trouble remembering his right from left...
fisher		No, the problem, as I recall, was the lack of blocking...
fisher		You all right?
adam		I can't fucking breathe. I'm sorry.
boyd		 OK. Definitely not cool! Definitely inappropriate behavior here.
fisher		Shut up Boyd.
boyd		Negative. This is not what we have worked out in terms of presented behavior.
fisher		He's having a problem here.
michael		What's the problem Adam?
moore		What's the problem?
boyd		What is your problem?
adam		I can't do this.
moore		Can't do what?
adam		We're gonna get caught. I know we're gonna get caught. They were eyeballing my car.
boyd		What?
adam		At the seven-eleven.
boyd		Who? What are you talking about?
adam		They're on me. They're smoking me out!
boyd		 Nobody's smoking anybody out.
fisher		Shut up.
moore		Quiet.
liz		Keith? Is everything okay, honey?
fisher		Yeah baby. Everything's great.
liz		Well, can you come back inside?
fisher		 Yeah. Sure.
liz		Now?
fisher		Yeah. Look honey, I'll be right in. I just... we're just taking care of some Groomsmen last minute business.
fisher		Yeah, Dad. It's great.
fisher		OK, OK. You guys just go back in. Dad, keep going with the toast, we'll be right in. Go on.
boyd		 You got some mighty fucking fine bad timing Adam. We got a rehearsal situation here.
adam		I don't give a damn.
michael		About anybody but yourself. You never have.
adam		And you're a little fucking reject.
michael		Eat my ass!
adam		Hey!
adam		If you ever touch my minivan again, I'll make you sorry. Real sorry.
michael		You're a loser.
adam		You're the loser! A big black hole sucking up everything you touch! YOU MURDERED THAT GIRL! MURDERER! MURDERER!
michael		You're the loser! You think your shit's so fucking righteous! FUCK YOU! You were there with us, boy! Right there! SIDE BY FUCKING SIDE!!!
fisher		Shut up!
boyd		Shut your fucking mouths!!!
adam		 I didn't do anything! I'll turn your pathetic ass in!
boyd		Adam! Calm down.
adam		I won't calm down. I can't do this. We can't do this. It won't work. It will not work.
boyd		It has worked.
adam		I'm talking about DNA samples, fiber optics, search parties, they got infrared scanners, FBI scientists. They figure this shit out. They always figure it out.
boyd		They won't figure it out.
adam		I got children. I've got a life.
michael		You got a retarded kid and a fat pig wife.
adam		You fucking bastard!
liz		Keith?!
fisher		Everything's OK. Just some more preparations.
liz		Are they fighting?
fisher		No baby. We'll all be right in.
boyd		This is going to stop right now. Right now!
michael		 You will not screw this up.
adam		Don't you threaten me you little rat fuck.
michael		Don't you fucking threaten me -- I'll fucking kill you.
adam		Go home!
michael		You go home!
boyd		Why don't you just cool out. Go home and go to sleep.
boyd		Just go home, chill the fuck out. Okay?
boyd		Just go home.
boyd		All right. Let's all go back in. Adam? You're cool right?
adam		No. I'm not Boyd. I am not cool at all.
michael		Mr. Fucking Minivan...
adam		NOOOO!!!!
boyd		It was just a crazy freak accident. He thought the car was in reverse... He didn't realize.
cop		Was there some sort of an argument?
fisher		No. Nothing like that.
cop		We heard there was some arguing going on. Some loud talk.
boyd		No. No. We were just all outside just talking.
cop		What were you talking about?
boyd		The wedding. We were talking bout how it was going to be one of the last times for us to all be together with Fisher not being married...
cop		A lot of people seem to think there was some hostility out there.
boyd		 Well I can't really comment on what "a lot of people" thought. I can only tell you that we had a horrible accident here and were all feeling extremely traumatized and your questions are a bit poorly timed. We're in full on grieving mode right now thank you very much Officer... Randone.
fisher		Easy Boyd.
boyd		No easy Boyd! I got a best friend in there in pieces. How about a little sensitivity?
cop		That's all I wanted to know.
doctor		His situation is critical. He's asking to speak to his wife.
boyd		The need to know is clear. What did Adam tell Lois? That's the name of the game. What did Adam tell Lois? What does Lois know?
michael		Ball park sausages.
boyd		You want some breakfast meat, Michael. Is that what you want?
michael		 Harris has lead a group of investors in the purchase of the Park Sausage Company. By taking on the challenge of resurrecting Park's, Harris is engaged in the equivalent of a sudden death overtime.
boyd		Easy Michael.
michael		 He must take an open-field run to profitability through excessive debt large competitors and dwindling market share. Before the clock runs out.
moore		Shut up Michael.
michael		 I KILLED MY BROTHER!
boyd		Okay. Time to fly.
michael		I ran down my brother in cold blood. Shame on me! Shame! Shame! Shame!
michael		 Time to pay the man. "For if we confess our sins he is faithful and just, to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness."
fisher		 Thank you.
michael		"Kill one man and you are a murderer! Kill millions and you are a conqueror -- Kill all and you are a God!"
michael		 "The memory of the just is blessed but the name of the wicked shall rot."
boyd		You will get yourself together here mister. Are you hearing me?
fisher		He's cracked up.
boyd		He is not cracking up.
fisher		Boyd... What have we done?
boyd		What did you ask me?
fisher		What?
boyd		What is the question you asked me?
fisher		I said, what have we done?
boyd		Yes, you did. Now that is the question! That is exactly the question we should be asking ourselves. You tell me Fisher. What have we done?
fisher		I don't know! I just want to get married.
boyd		Say it again.
fisher		What?
boyd		What you just said. Say it again.
fisher		I just want to get married.
boyd		Exactly! Exactly my point.
moore		What's your fucking point?
boyd		I'm not talking to you?
fisher		What's your point?
boyd		You want to know what you are doing here?! You are love pumping. You are protecting all that is sacred and beautiful and in sync with poetry and sunsets and little newborn babies. You are walking the walk. This is it Fisher, the real stuff. You love this woman. Love is second to nothing. I love you. I love Moore. I love Michael. This car is full of love, and nothing -- absolutely nothing -- supersedes love, man. Nothing. We will do what it takes. Whatever it takes.
boyd		Love does not lose.
boyd		Easy Michael.
liz		 Cancel?! Cancel?! Are you out of your fucking mind?!
fisher		Nobody's saying cancel. I'm talking about modifying.
liz		No way.
fisher		Can we just talk this out?
liz		Talk what out? We are locked and loaded here. We are non-refundable. I've got relatives on the airport right now! I've got...
liz		Answer it!
fisher		Hello?
lois		Keith. It's Lois. I just found a note up in Adam's study. It's some kind of crazy confession about killing a stripper and cutting up bodies and...
fisher		 ...burying them outside of Vegas, about Boyd being the ring leader... She wants to know what the hell is going on and I'm starting to freak out here.
michael		We're goosed.
boyd		We're not goosed.
moore		What's goosed?
boyd		What is her disposition?
fisher		Regarding what?
boyd		Does she sound pissed, scared, hostile? Did she mention the police?
fisher		No, but she's definitely pissed and hostile. And she's clearly starting to think that's something's not right.
michael		We're goosed! Goosed by God!
boyd		Michael get a grip.  What did you tell her?
fisher		I told her that I have no idea what Adam was talking about in that letter.
moore		Did she believe you?
fisher		I have no idea.
moore		You can tell when people believe you. It's obvious.
fisher		Well I don't have that skill and if I had to guess I would say that in no way did she believe me.
michael		 Goosed!
boyd		Stop it!
michael		Goosed!
boyd		Stop.
michael		Goosed!
boyd		 Give me the Valium.
moore		He just had two.
boyd		Give me two more.
boyd		 Open sesame.
fisher		Jesus Boyd you're going to O.D. him.
boyd		Suck my ass.
lois		I never liked you Boyd. You're a snaky little fuck. Always have been.
boyd		What are you talking about?
lois		Don't sweet lip me.
boyd		I don't understand where this personal attack is coming from...
lois		You're a liar. I want to know what happened in Vegas.
boyd		Nothing happened in Vegas.
lois		I don't want to hear it from the liar. Stick a plug in it Boyd. Fisher? What happened in Vegas?
fisher		 Nothing happened in Vegas.
lois		 Moore?
moore		 Nothing happened.
lois		Michael? Do you have something to tell me?
boyd		Michael. Tell Lois that nothing...
lois		Shut up Boyd! Michael?
michael		 Goosed.
lois		What?
michael		Lois we were bad, we were very, very bad.
boyd		He's upset about Adam. We're all upset.
lois		I will call the police right now if I don't start getting some answers.
boyd		Lois please.
lois		Fuck you Boyd.
fisher		Okay. Lois... here's the deal.  Adam was with a prostitute in Las Vegas.
lois		What?
fisher		I'm sorry he was unfaithful to you.
boyd		And it wasn't the first time... He had a thing about prostitutes.
lois		 My Adam?
boyd		We're sorry.
boyd		Mommy just needs a little time out. Everything's gonna be okay. Okay?  Okay.
boyd		After you drop the kids off, take Michael home. Put a few drinks in him so he'll sleep.
fisher		I don't think that's such a good idea.
boyd		Just do it.
fisher		What are you going to do?
boyd		Take care of business.
fisher		 What does that mean?
boyd		And what does that mean?  You think I would hurt Lois?! She's the mother of those kids! What is wrong with you?
fisher		I don't know...
boyd		You got a nasty side to your thought process.
fisher		I'm sorry. Honey... it's just for tonight.
fisher		Lois is a mess and Michael's really upset. Everyone's upset.
liz		We're not canceling.
fisher		I know.
liz		I won't even discuss it.
fisher		No one's discussing it. I'm just gonna run Michael home. I'll be right back.
liz		I need you to pick up the cake tomorrow.
fisher		Don't we already have someone to do that for us?
liz		Yeah. You.
fisher		Okay. Okay.
michael		 Do you hear buzzing fish?
fisher		Buzzing?
michael		Yeah. I got some kind of buzzing. Like a zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz thing just chipping away in the back of my skull.
fisher		I don't hear it.
michael		Yeah, well, it's a nasty problem.
fisher		Have another drink.
michael		Dad used to bring home these sparklers to me and Adam. Out back we'd light 'em up. The three of us. We'd hold 'em up to the sky and watch the explosions of light. Sparks. And dad would be all... "Get ready"... "watch for it"... "here it comes," here comes the "wahoo"
fisher		The wahoo?
michael		The sparkler would burn hot, then hotter, then even hotter... and there would be one moment of pure burn when that little fucker would cook just perfect. Perfect. It would only last a second, but that second was it. It was it. That's what dad had us looking for... You get me?
fisher		The wahoo moment?
michael		That's my point! You see Man... burning at his absolute. To see all the forces just come together, just right, you know, just in perfect harmony. That's what I'm driving at. You get me?
fisher		I think so.
michael		I've been looking for that flash and I look and I look and I can't find it. And what if I already had it? You know. My moment? What if it's gone? And I never saw it?  You're getting married, man. That's a fucking beautiful thing. Just a beautiful thing. I just can't stop breaking beautiful things.
lois		You picked the wrong woman mother- fucker!
michael		You see for me it's over. Over baby. I'm gonna turn myself in. After the wedding of course. After the wedding. Out of respect.
moore		I don't think that's a good idea.
michael		I said out of respect. Respect for you Fisher. For you and your wedding and your beautiful bride. There will be no more rain. You see where I am here?
fisher		I appreciate it. I do, but... maybe you ought to just ease up on yourself a bit.
michael		No. No. No. This is my doing. You see I'm gonna have my wahoo spark for my own. For Lois and the kids, for my brother, for Franco. I'm gonna turn myself in. I am all that. I'm gonna do it for sweet Lois.
michael		If I was to think... If I were to think... No I mean I have thinked it over... I have. And without putting a lot of pressure on you I just... Well I just...
fisher		What is it?
michael		 Well if you do think about names... Michael's a pretty good one... It's done me all right.
fisher		 Yeah.
boyd		 Okay. Here's the deal and it's a good one. Lois is cool. It's a pacified situation.
fisher		What does that mean?
boyd		I'm talking about Lois having relaxed her anxiety. Only deal is... you still got Michael there?
fisher		Yeah.
boyd		Good deal. Lois just wants to hear it from Michael.
fisher		Hear what?
boyd		That it was all an accident. She wants to here it from Michael's mouth.
fisher		Now?
boyd		That's right.
fisher		Isn't it a little late?
boyd		Hold on a sec.  Lois, you sure you wouldn't rather do this in the morning?
boyd		 I got a peace treaty thing happening over here... let's get this over with.
boyd		Okay Michael, let's go.  Upsy daisy big guy.
michael		 How about my Fatburger?
boyd		Come on tough guy. Listen to me.  You are going to tell Lois that it was all an accident. Okay cowboy? You got me?
michael		I love you.
moore		He's too drunk.
boyd		He's fine. Okay Mikey, let's go.  You guys stay here.
moore		 I'm thinking about maybe making a move.
fisher		A move?
moore		Greenpeace.
fisher		Greenpeace?
moore		Maybe go up to the North Pole, the Arctic. Tag polar bears with dart guns. I've always had a pretty good aim...
boyd		Michael was having an affair with Lois. That's what Michael and Adam were arguing about in the parking lot. Michael killed Adam in a jealous rage. Lois broke it off with Michael, he strangled her to death and then shot himself in the head.  Happens all the time.
boyd		That Lois fought like a fucking Comanche.
barry morris		I don't see how this could have been kept from you. The facts are quite simple; last month Adam and Lois changed their will. They requested that you two, as a married couple, be the Custodians of Record for their estate including all properties, cash holdings, security holdings and... children. You are legal custodians of the Brenn Trust.
liz		My god.
barry morris		There's more.
fisher		More?
barry morris		Adam and Lois were not terribly prudent in terms of providing for the possibility of the unforeseen.
fisher		What are you talking about?
barry morris		I'm talking about Life insurance. I'm talking about money.
liz		Money?
barry morris		Yes money. Adam had a five hundred thousand dollar Term Life Insurance Policy.
liz		What does that mean?
fisher		That means we get five hundred thousand to help raise the kids.
liz		 No.
fisher		Yes.
barry morris		Actually, no. Adam was switching to a Whole Life Policy, but re-scheduled his medical exam... and failed to make his last payment... so his Term Life lapsed. So it's value is null and void.  Now he did have a pension account, worth another 150 thousand.
liz		 Well, oh...
barry morris		And a house. Valued at 350 thousand.
liz		So where's that leave us?
fisher		150 plus 350... we still get 500 thousand.
barry morris		 You'll get, oh... in the neighborhood of, ah... 14,223 dollars.
little adam		Get away from me!
fisher		I'm just trying to help...
little adam		I don't want your help!
fisher		Stop kicking. Stop kicking!
barry morris		 So. When is the wedding.
liz		Tomorrow  We are getting married tomorrow.
liz		It's okay... It's okay baby. Cry for Mama. Cry for Mama.
fisher		No it's not okay. It's not.
liz		Cry for Boom Boom. It's okay.
fisher		 Liz we've got to cancel, we have to put it off.
liz		 Don't even.
fisher		Do you love me?
liz		What?
fisher		Do you love me?
liz		What kind of stupid question is that?
fisher		 Oh God. We. Liz. We. We. Killed a woman. We...
liz		What are you talking about?
fisher		 Oh Liz. We. God. We, in Vegas. Michael crushed her skull. She was dead. There was nothing else to do. It was an accident.
liz		Who's dead?
fisher		The prostitute.
liz		You fucked a prostitute?
fisher		No Michael did. It was an accident.
liz		You killed a prostitute.
fisher		Michael, by accident.
liz		Call the police.
fisher		It's too late.
liz		My God. You've got to call the police, tell them it was an accident. Where is she?
fisher		She's in the desert. She's out in the desert.
liz		You left a dead prostitute out in the desert? Alone?
fisher		She's not alone... She's... Boyd... Oh God... He's gone nuts... He killed Lois and Michael... it's all...
liz		Stop! You stop right here. I don't want to know anymore. I told you not to do this Bachelor Party thing. You were warned.
fisher		But...
liz		No buts. I told you your friends were Jackasses.
fisher		But...
liz		No buts. I've waited twenty-seven years, twenty-seven years I have focused and prepared to walk down that aisle. I will not be derailed! I will not be embarrassed! I will not be denied! I am walking down that aisle tomorrow come hell or high fucking water!
boyd		Okay, we're about two minutes out. Moore, better take your position.
boyd		Chop chop.
boyd		This is a situation that defies judgement. We have acted and showed courage that is not of a kind known by most.
fisher		I'm getting really tired of your bullshit.
boyd		My what?
fisher		You've got a warped thought process. Your brain doesn't function properly.
boyd		You care to add a little specification to that slanderous accusation?
fisher		 I'm talking about some bad, bad, very bad things. Bad things! Those are bad fucking things!
boyd		Okay fine.
fisher		Fine? Fine what?
boyd		Whatever you say Kojak.
fisher		I'm serious.
boyd		I'm serious. I'm the serious one here. I'm the one making the play. I'm the Indian Runner. And I want my money.
liz		I told Boyd two fucking minutes!
fisher		What money?
boyd		Blood money. Insurance dollars that you have thus fucking far decided not to tell me about at all. In no way have you mentioned that money. And I find that to be very very offensive.
fisher		You're sick.
boyd		 And if you think you can fuck me, don't. Cause I'm fucking insulated Fisher. Protected. Backed up on floppy. Do you get me? I want my fucking money!
fisher		Not a prayer.
boyd		I'm a lifesaver. A lighthouse. Up all night in the rain, in stormy gale force wind, tornado and fucking earthquakes. I stay lit for you. I stay lit. I don't go dark. I never go dark!
fisher		You need help.
boyd		I want that money!
liz		 Here comes the bride.
moore		Where's Boyd?
fisher		 Downstairs in the closet.
judge tower		May we have the rings please?
fisher		What?
judge tower		The rings?
moore		Got 'em.
judge tower		 These rings represent the commitment Fisher and Liz make to each other on the day. Fisher do you take Liz to be your beloved wife, to respect, honor and cherish till death do you part?
fisher		I do.
judge tower		Liz do you take Fisher to be your beloved husband, to respect, honor and cherish him till death do you part?
liz		I do.
judge tower		I now pronounce you husband and wife.
moore		He came to me early today, was talking about money, insurance money. Said he was gonna get what was his.
fisher		My God...
moore		He said he was the Brain Trust. Said he was smarter than all of us. He started reading "Atlas Shrugged," staring at himself in the mirror.
fisher		Did he try to kiss you?
moore		All week long.
fisher		He kept saying he was protected.
liz		What does that mean?
fisher		Like if something happened to him, he could still get us.
liz		Like how?
fisher		I don't know. He could have told someone. He could have, like in the event of his death, somehow let someone know where those bodies are buried.
liz		The only proof is those bodies.
fisher		So what do we do?
liz		Move the bodies.
fisher		Move the bodies?
old man		We just wanted to say congratulations and wish you great happiness. Mazeltov. I just did. I said Malzeltov. You never listen to me.
old woman		We're your Uncle Henry's parents. Opal and Earl. Tell them from both of us. Malzeltov. Wish them luck. The secret to a good marriage is to listen.
liz		 Thank you. Thank you. We will. Bye bye.
fisher		I... Liz... all I ever wanted, was for you to be happy. I just wanted to give you the wedding, the life you always dreamed of...  ...I just love you so much... So much...
liz		 You and Moore move the bodies and bury Boyd with them. In fact, put Moore in the ground too.
fisher		What?
liz		If you don't tie up all the lose ends it'll never be over.
fisher		 No...
liz		You put him down or don't bother coming back.
fisher		But...
liz		Do you love me? DO YOU LOVE ME?!
moore		You alright?
fisher		Yeah. I'm thinking about Michael's Franco Harris fixation. You know how Michael was always harping "Immaculate Reception?" I've seen that play. A lot of times... and I have to say this... Franco was lucky. Flat out, right place, right time. That's it. He was where the ball bounced. You get me?
moore		I guess.
fisher		I'm saying it's luck. All luck. You work your entire life, all the training, focus, all the dedication, all irrelevant. Where does the ball bounce? My father spent his whole life trying to start a company, practiced every day, worked like a dog, finally got enough money. He's paid the dues, he's ready, does all the market research, picks his shot -- "Pup Corn."
moore		Pup corn?
fisher		That's right, "Pup Corn." Doggie treats. Little snacks for dogs. He's figured it out. There is a hole in the market and he's going to fill it. Spends all out money, works himself into not two but three heart attacks getting this shit up. After fifteen months, the big day arrives, the first box of "Pup Corn" pops off the belt. He comes running home with that box, pulls us out of school. We all pile into the living room, must be fifty of us, and in comes "Shelmer," our 8 year old mutt. "Here Shelmer," my dad cries. He's got that little fucking pup corn in his hand, "Here girl." This dog will eat anything, she eats rocks, anything. She walk's up to my dad's hand, looks down at the little pellet, licks it once, turns around, walks out of the room. Shelmer rejected the "Pup Corn." Fifteen months of my dad's life, right there. Not one dog ate Pup Corn. Not one. Three months later, "Pup Corn" shuts down. Chapter Eleven. My father never got over it. Never.
fisher		I think it was over here.
moore		It was over by those rocks.
fisher		There.
moore		Where?
fisher		There. This rock is where I stood when I said the prayer.
fisher		Bingo.
moore		Got it.
moore		I've been thinking about what you said that day. The prayer. About using this whole mess to bring out the good in me...
fisher		Yeah?
moore		I think there's a lot of truth in that. I'm gonna pursue some options. I want to join that Big Brother thing.
fisher		 That's a good one.
moore		I want a black one. A little black brother. That's a big problem it seems to me. Lack of racial integration. That's a big one. You think?
moore		What do you think?
fisher		I think you'd make an excellent Big Brother.
moore		 That's what I'm thinking.
moore		Well that ought to be about the end of that.
fisher		Yup.
fisher		Okay let's try it again.
timmy		A scout is thrifty, saves for the future. A scout is clean, he keeps his body...
adam jr.		A scout is brave. A scout can face danger, even if he's afraid...
fisher		Let's see the salutes!
timmy		 Shut up! Shut the fuck up!
fisher		It's okay, it's okay.
fisher		Remember a scout is helpful! A scout doesn't scream in the face of adversity.
fisher		 Okay, let's skip to the Scout's Oath...
****Dialogues from script :Village.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Virtuosity.txt****

virtuosity		 by  Eric Bernt  THIRD REWRITE   August 24, 1994
parker barnes		His body is a running back's. His endurance a marathoner's. His face one you'd want for your own. He's in his 30s. If he was in his 20s, you'd still be jealous.
john		I can't get over how different you look.
parker		 Five years can be a bitch, huh?
john		 Lady, move!
parker		 Where's John?
parker		Recital's over, asshole.
parker		SHIT!
deane		 What did Cox pull him out early for?
wallace		Barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, remember?
deane		 Don't remind me.
parker		 SOMEBODY.. .DO SOMETHING!
deane		 What the hell happened?
wallace		 Lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. If the simulator isn't calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of VR is like experiencing death within a dream. The experience becomes real.
deane		 Simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world.
wallace		 I was assured the problem was corrected.
lindenmeyer		I did fix it.. I told you I did. I don't know why it happened again.
deane		Again?!
cox		 My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
deane		 Why wasn't I told?
wallace		Black book dollars, black book operation. You pay me for results, not how for how I get you there.
cox		 I'll tell you one thing - there is no way in hell we should allow any real officers to train in this damn thing.
deane		Then about all I've spent $37 million developing is a very expensive way to control the prison population.
parker		 He...only had a year left on his sentence.
lindenmeyer		 How much do you think I care?
cox		I'll walk him out.
parker		 Why'd.. .you pull me out?
cox		Donley started experiencing the attack for real. If I hadn't gotten you out, the same thing would have happened to you.  You may not believe this, Parker,
cox		What the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for?
parker		He was a computer program for crissake.
cox		You were supposed to act as if everything was real.
parker		Real, my ass. It's an overblown game.  Anybody ever catch that fucking psycho?
cox		Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first.  New scar  you making it okay in there?
parker		 I'm getting by.
cox		 You've got to know I tried keeping you out of general population. Goddam politicians...
parker		 I'm becoming something else, and it scares the hell out of me.
parker		 But with the six months off I get for being your guinea pig, I've only got to survive another 17 years, 5 months, and 23 days.
cox		Don't give up, Parker. Not ever.
parker		 You know those cheesy Christmas cards of your family under that tree in your back yard you keep sending me every year?
cox		What about them?
parker		 Do me a favor  keep sending them.
cox		Take care, pal.
guard		 Hey Parker  I'm real sorry John boy got fried. What do you think Big Red's gonna do when he finds out you came back without his girl friend?
lindenmeyer		 Did you recognize the son-of-a bitch who got away?
lindenmeyer		Think hard -- it'll come to you...
wallace		You embarrassed me in front of the highestranking law enforcement official in the country.  Do you have any idea how much money you just cost me?
lindenmeyer		The reason you insisted on testing my system with prisoners is because of the increased risks involved with increased realism.
wallace		Of the six prison inmates you've tested  all of whom have had at least some military or survival training - only Mr. Barnes is still breathing.
lindenmeyer		I'm still making adjustments...
wallace		You've had a yearandahalf to make all the adjustments you want, Lindenmeyer.  Elizabeth Deane does not give second chances. Neither do I. You're fired.
lindenmeyer		 I'M WHAT?!
wallace		 You are to turn over the Sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. Is that understood?
lindenmeyer		 I understand... I understand perfectly.
wallace		 How does he know who I am?
lindenmeyer		 He hears...everything.
wallace		 As a matter of fact, I do.
wallace		This is Wallace...
red		Time to hurt...
guard		Fun's over.
nurse		I still don't know why they wasted this fancy, new technology on you. Every time I fix you up, you only go and mess it up again.
nurse		Tell me how this feels...
parker		OW!
nurse		 I'll dial it down a little.
parker		It'll never feel right.
nurse		At least they work. Would you rather have no hands at all?
parker		Sometimes.
wallace		Congratulations, Reilly...
reilly		As long as you keep overpaying me, I'll be the first to go into production on three, and four, as well.
wallace		As long as they keep overpaying me, I'll keep overpaying you.  Just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
reilly		Mr. Wallace, I could have 10 of them ready by tomorrow.
wallace		 Do they have to look so...robotic?
reilly		At this stage, you either get form or function. You said she wanted function. I gave you function. What are you complaining about?
lindenmeyer		All they want to produce around here is mediocrity!
lindenmeyer		 It was you, wasn't it?
lindenmeyer		You amped the neural connectors back up, didn't you?  You're the reason the convict died. You're the reason I got fired!
lindenmeyer		 My God...
lindenmeyer		What do you expect me to do, put your character module in my pocket and just walk you out of here?
lindenmeyer		 Hey, Reilly, Sheila 3.2's been asking for you...
madison		 The cuffs won't be necessary.
guard		No offense, ma'am, but I don't think that's such a good idea.
madison		I would like the following three things in this order: your mouth shut, his cuffs off, and your ass outside the door. Any questions?
parker		You actually listen to all those tapes?
madison		 How you feeling today?
parker		A little less than yesterday.
madison		In other words, par for the course.  How do you feel about the simulation you participated in yesterday?
parker		John died.
madison		I know. I was there. I saw the whole thing.  If I was your therapist, I would have advised you against putting yourself back into that kind of situation.
parker		You're not my therapist. You're hear to study me. Face it  I'm nothing more than a lab rat to you.
madison		That's not true, Parker.
parker		If I had died yesterday, you'd have already dissected my brain and analyzed it to see if I carry any genetic predisposition toward violence.
madison		 What was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
parker		Not much. He was just a computer program. Nothing more.
madison		You didn't see the expression you had on your face when you pulled the trigger. But I did.  You kind of liked it, didn't you? That thrill of going over the edge again. Of taking out an innocent bystander or two, as long as you got the target...
parker		Go to hell.
madison		It was just like before, wasn't it? Wasn't it?  But you are making progress. Instead of killing seven people to get the one you're after, this time there was only one other person involved.
parker		Enough!
madison		GET OUT!
parker		I don't have to do anything except survive. And it's taking everything I've got just to do that.
reilly		Oh, believe me, it is. It is...
reilly		HEY!!!
lindenmeyer		Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after hours.
reilly		 I haven't been working on anything.
lindenmeyer		 Do I get to see it or not?
reilly		 Sheila, don't go anywhere. I'll be right back.
lindenmeyer		All my work is my finest.
lindenmeyer		 Get that fucking thing away from me!
reilly		 You're...such a wimp.
lindenmeyer		 It's nanotechnology, isn't it? Machines the size of molecules...
reilly		 Coordinated by polymer neural net.
lindenmeyer		 It feels so.. .real.
reilly		It's better than real. It's synthetic flesh. Synthetic blood. Synthetic organs...  It's a physiological machine.
lindenmeyer		 This is supposed to be years away.
reilly		As far as the public is concerned, it is. The reason you got fired, and I got my second demo into production, is I'm a lot smarter than you. I never give my best stuff away.
lindenmeyer		 How do you kill it?
reilly		Separate the character module from the neural net...
lindenmeyer		Amazing. I hate to say it, but it is.
reilly		I know.  I'm ready to incubate something a little more advanced than a coldblooded reptile. If you want to experience the future, meet me in my office in 15 minutes. And bring the Sheila 3.2 character module with you...
lindenmeyer		I think I understand what you have in mind...
lindenmeyer		You need a maid.
reilly		What I need is a nymphomaniac.
reilly		It feeds on what is basically amniotic fluid.  In eight hours, we are going to have ourselves one hell of a play toy.
reilly		 Baby, what I'm gonna do to you...
lindenmeyer		SID  NO!!!
reilly		 This... isn't.. .possible!
parker		 You're wasting your time. I'm not going to play any more of your goddam games.
cox		Parker Barnes, I'd like you to meet Crime Czar Elizabeth Deane.
parker		 It's too early in the morning for me to be cordial. You got any coffee?
deane		I watched your simulation, Mr. Barnes. Very impressive. You know, you're the only one to ever go up
parker		Only because I got pulled out early.
deane		Nobody else ever got anywhere near him. Nobody else... understands him like you do.
cox		These were taken inside LETAC an hour ago. Pretty pictures, aren't they?
parker		I've seen worse.
cox		Name was Clyde Reilly. Hardware specialist.  LETAC surveillance cameras got a picture of the perp as he left the building.
deane		 You mean a nanotech synthetic organism.
cox		Whatever.
parker		 Can you kill it?
cox		If you can catch him.
deane		Think you can do it?
parker		 Not from in here.
deane		 This is a full pardon. It authorizes your immediate release.
cox		Recognize this? How would you like your old job back?
deane		 Catch him and your record's clean.
parker		What happens if I can't catch him?
deane		If Sid 6.7 hasn't killed you, we throw you back in here and you serve out the rest of your sentence.
parker		How do you know I won't run?
deane		This is the newest technology approved for general implementation. It's called a locater implant. Every parolee gets one.  We're going to know where you are every second for the rest of your life.
cox		 If you try to run, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
deane		 Yes or no, Mr. Barnes?
cox		There's already a task force out looking for Lindenmeyer. Every other officer in the city will be hunting Sid right along with you.
deane		But only you will know he's not human.
madison		Ms. Deane, you wanted to see me?
deane		We have an emergency situation which requires somebody with expertise in criminal psychology. Under the authority vested in me by the President, I'm giving you temporary reassignment.
madison		What's the assignment?
deane		You're going to put your theories to practice. I'm sending you into the field.
madison		 What exactly am I going to be doing in the field?
anesthetist		 You are right on the border of his corpus callosuni.
surgeon		He is under, isn't he?
anesthetist		 Won't stop him from dreaming, though...
madison		This is Parker Barnes six years ago. The most decorated cop in the history of L. A. P. D. Special Investigations Division...
deane		 That's also where Mr. Barnes lost his arms to Mathew Grimes' booby trap. What's your point, Dr. Carter?
madison		 Letting a lunatic like Parker Barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. At some point, he will go off -- you saw what happened in the simulator. The risk to the public is unacceptably dangerous.
deane		Not if you're with him every step of the way.
madison		The man played judge, jury, and executioner with eight people's lives. He lost control and is capable of doing it again.
deane		I understand the risks involved here. But there is nobody better qualified to go after Sid 6.7 than Barnes. And, there is nobody who knows him better than you. If a situation becomes volatile, you will find a way to quell it. I have complete confidence in you.
parker		 I don't need a babysitter.
madison		What you need is a collar.
cox		 She's going to help you understand
parker		What she's going to do is get in my way.
cox		This is the personnel file on the programmer, Lindenmeyer. There might be something in it you can use.
parker		She wasn't part of the deal, Cox.
cox		Fine  you want to stay here?
parker		Their weapons missing?
parker		Where's my gun?
cox		Be careful with it.
madison		 You remember how to get to Toluca Lake?
madison		What are you doing?!
parker		 Every day for the last five years, I told myself that lie.
madison		It wasn't a lie.
parker		Every time I said it, it was. I never really thought I was going to make it.
madison		You all right?
parker		 See, I'm a good liar.
reporter		 As L. A. P. D. Officers continue gathering evidence at this grisly crime scene, you can only ask yourselves what kind of lunatic would commit such unthinkable crimes?
madison		 You ready for this?
parker		Don't worry. If I can't handle it, I'll just kill everybody.
madison		 He was reenacting Charles Manson's LaBianca murders.
parker		Manson didn't kill the first cops to arrive on the scene.
madison		Whoever did this wanted to do Charlie one better  to improve upon what was already done.
parker		Charlie? You say that like you're close, personal friends.
madison		I've spent over 50 hours interviewing him.  The question is, what does Charlie
parker		I know who would know.
madison		 You drive well for somebody who hasn't done it in five years.
parker		Learn anything from Lindenmeyer's file?
madison		He had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. Lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. All he did day and night was play the violin.
parker		What happened when he was 17?
madison		Every music school in the country rejected him and he turned to computers.  Stay here.
undercover		None, yet.
madison		Mind if we take a look inside?
undercover		Not until somebody gets a search warrant signed. It's Sunday. I don't think they've even found a judge, yet.
madison		Do what you've got to do.  So will I...
madison		 You've got a problem with me carrying a gun?
parker		Do me one favor  if you shoot at anything, make sure I'm nowhere near it.
parker		 Bang...
parker		What are you doing?
madison		 You enjoy frightening me, don't you?
parker		You've studied me, now I'm studying you. Seems only fair, don't you think?
madison		This Lindenmeyer's a real piece of work.
parker		 Maybe after they catch him, you should write a book about him...
madison		I'm still working on it.
parker		I've been in prison, remember?
madison		The government must have figured there was no better person to create a psycho than a psycho.
parker		Just like they figured there was no better person to catch one...
madison		 I am the demon from the bottomless pit...
parker		 ... here on earth to create havoc and terror. I am War, I am death. I am destruction. David Berkowitz,
madison		I am impressed.
parker		 For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ.
madison		Who said that?
parker		Hamlet.  What's David Berkowitz got to do
madison		 He's part of the mix. Sid 6.7 is a composite.
madison		Lindenmeyer put increasingly complex combinations of criminal psychological profiles together to develop the ultimate villain.
parker		 Creating a whole far more dangerous than the sum of its parts.
madison		But rather than selecting pieces from each individual, he simply let the stronger traits of each individual cannibalize the weaker ones.
parker		This is getting you pumped up, isn't it? This is like the World Series to you.
madison		As a matter of fact, it is.
parker		Remember the bowling ball bag Sid carried with him in virtual reality?
madison		Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy factory.  We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile.
parker		What we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the sonof-a-bitch before he kills anybody else.
madison		In order to find him, we have to understand what makes him tick...
alexiev		 Daryl Lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. But he was singularly the most brilliant student I ever had in a classroom. He created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies...
parker		Can you tell us what's on the disc?
alexiev		 There is one program with approximately 1.3 million lines of programming. It is thoroughly secured, which is not surprising considering Lindenmeyer created it.
madison		Think you can get into the program?
alexiev		 Hard to say  Lindenmeyer's protection mechanisms were always diabolically clever.
parker		You should see what he's been up to recently.
businessman		 You one of them New Age assholes?
businessman		Listen, buddy...thinking big is fine.. .but you shouldn't forget where you come from, either.
businessman		What for?
deane		What are they doing in Los Feliz?
cox		 Madison lives two blocks from their present location.
deane		Why would they be going there?
cox		I don't know.
deane		I wish we could hear them.
wallace		My engineers say the audio tap should be ready to field test in six months.
madison		Not this one, but the next one. The one with the bicycle out front...
parker		I'll wait out here.
madison		Give me your wrist.
parker		Give me a goddam break. I'm not going to go anywhere alone.
madison		And I'm going to make sure of it.  Give me your wrist.
karin		Mommy's home! Mommy's home!
madison		Grimes, you better not be the dominant.
parker		Told you I wasn't going to go anywhere.
madison		How did you get your hand out?
parker		Sometimes, I like being part machine.
madison		I prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal life.
parker		 She's beautiful, you know?
madison		Thank-you.  Her name is Karin.
parker		Want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house?
madison		I told you, it was on the way and I wanted to change clothes.
parker		You should practice lying more often. You're awful at it.  Where to?
madison		 Sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his programming.
parker		What does that mean?
madison		Now that he's in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. Sid is going to evolve.
parker		Sounds to me like a welleducated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
madison		What I do know is that whatever he's becoming, Sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before.
parker		Then all we can do is stay mobile and alert. He's got to make a move sometime, and we've got to be ready when he does.  Welcome to police work. You better like coffee.
parker		I forgot what real coffee tastes like...
madison		You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're readapting quite well.  Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant...
parker		Don't worry about it, all right?
madison		Dammit, I hate sounding so clinical all the time. All I meant to say was I thought you were doing well, but then I...
parker		Relax. I know what you meant.
madison		I ruin so many moments by analyzing them when I should just be living them.
parker		Then why don't you start practicing and keep your mouth shut for a while?
madison		That's only a couple blocks from here.
parker		I'll meet you there.
madison		 Don't get out of the car.
parker		Stop me.
madison		Parker! PARKER!  Shit!
madison		What the hell's going on?!
parker		This is my area of expertise.
madison		 What did you do to those people?
parker		Nothing.
parker		Being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, isn't it?
madison		 Enjoying yourself?
parker		You know I am.
madison		This isn't a game, Parker!
parker		 Tell him.
madison		 That who I think it is?
parker		 Call me whatever you want, asshole.
parker		The only thing I want to hear is your silence.
parker		 You and me have nothing in common.
madison		You have nothing in common.
parker		 Still got your gun?
traffic cop		You better be a cop, pal!
traffic cop		Show me...
parker		Nail the fucker.
parker		What's the problem?
madison		I'm doing the best I can!
cox		 I forgot what it's like to have you on the streets.
madison		Any sign of Lindenmeyer?
cox		None. He could be hiding, he could be helping Sid, or could be in little pieces on Santa Monica beach.  Any idea what Sid's going to do next?
madison		Until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can't be sure.
cox		In other words, we collectively don't know shit.
wallace		 I will never forget the first time I saw the photos from the crime scene.
deane		 The media has caught wind of his pardon. Unless Mr. Barnes starts giving me some tangible results, I'm going to put him back in his cage.
reporter		Police now believe there to be a connection between the grisly Toluca Lake murders yesterday afternoon, and the hostage situation which occurred last night in a downtown bar...
cashier		Next.  Did you know those aren't even baked? They're chemicallyrisen.
alexiev		I'm afraid I don't have very good news.
madison		Were you able to get into the program?
alexiev		Yes. But then I tripped over an erasure mine.
parker		In English, please.
alexiev		I accidently triggered a protection mechanism which erased the entire program.
parker		 It's not your fault. We appreciate you trying.
alexiev		Look, I feel bad about this, so I'm going to try to look into the programming of his Maestro teaching tool for you.  I've had one sitting around for years. Maybe I can learn something that you'll find useful.
madison		Let us know.
reporter		 ... commuters travelling anywhere near the Biltmore Hotel downtown tomorrow evening should allow themselves at least 30 extra minutes to get home. Security for the Mayor Bennett's ReElection Rally is going to be so tight that all bus and subway routes passing through the area are being rerouted...
skinhead		You don't wanna fuck with me, man.
madison		 Whatever he was doing here was only the start.
parker		Start of what?
madison		I don't know, yet. What we do know is his performances are increasing in scale, not decreasing.  Whatever it is, he isn't finished...
madison		 You mind playing that part again?
madison		Freeze it there
parker		You like baseball?
parker		 This is Officer Parker Barnes. Get every able body you can to Dodger Stadium -- J Section.
officer		What the hell's going on?
parker		 Live execution.
boyfriend		You make a better door than a window, buddy. Keep it moving.
guard		I nailed the sonof-abitch. I put a hole right through him...
madison		SLOW DOWN!
madison		Parker.. .Parker!
security robot		 Stop. You are in violation of...
parker		Real effective security...
madison		You could have just flashed him your badge, you know?
parker		Authority still makes me nervous.
madison		Which way?
parker		Both.
madison		SHIT!
parker		 Everybody get down!
madison		 What were you shooting at?
parker		 Sid's getting away.
madison		Parker - stop! STOP! Don't make me shoot you
parker		 If you're gonna do it, better do it now.
madison		Dammit!
madison		Let me help you...
college student		 What did I do?...I didn't do anything...
parker		 I lost him...
college student		GET HIM AWAY FROM ME! GET HIM AWAY!
madison		 Call 9-1-1. Wait for me above ground.
madison		 Do you have any idea the trauma you put that kid through?!
parker		 That's Grimes...
madison		 Get a hold of yourself!
parker		 But he's in there. And you knew it, didn't you? Didn't you?!
guard		Hands up! Now!
madison		 What's going on?
guard		He's going back where he belongs.
deane		 Enjoy the rest of your sentence, Mr. Barnes.
guard		 Let's go.
madison		Parker...
madison		 I should have told him.
cox		Don't blame yourself. In your shoes, I don't think I would have told Parker, either.  So do you think Grimes has become the dominant personality?
madison		I'm not sure. My guess is that's what Sid wants us to think.
cox		 You think he's smart?
madison		Captain, I'm afraid of how smart Sid 6.7 is.  But I'm even more afraid of what's he's becoming.
parker		What the hell's going on?!
parker		You...mother...fucker! I'M GOING TO KILL YOU!!!
parker		GRIMES, YOU'RE DEAD!
parker		DEAD! YOU HEAR ME?
parker		Shit!
aide		Parker Barnes just escaped from the prison transport. Both of the guards are dead.
cox		 Barnes wouldn't kill two innocent guards.
deane		He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
cox		Do I need to remind you what happened to his wife? To his daughter?  I will stake my reputation that Barnes didn't kill those guards.
deane		You already have staked your reputation.  The fail-safe online, yet?
wallace		Online and at your disposal.
cox		 What failsafe?
deane		 This had better work, Mr. Wallace.
madison		Oh, shit!
madison		 There is no way Parker killed those guards. No way.
cox		I think we both know who did.  What's so urgent?
madison		I need your help--
cox		Why didn't anybody tell me?!
madison		I don't set policy.  You have the key?
cox		 This is a police department. I'll be damned if this is going to go on without my knowledge.
cox		Give me 30 seconds, then flip every switch you can reach.
madison		Got it.
technician		Who are we going to fry?
wallace		Just an unrepentant criminal who is apparently going to die from a previously undiagnosed brain tumor.
cox		Just paying my last respects.
wallace		What happened?!
technician		I don't know. We've lost all power!
cox		The heat's been causing brown out's all over the city. Get above ground until it's restored.
madison		We know you didn't kill those guards.
parker		They're going to fry me for it, anyway.
cox		Nobody's going to fry anybody...
cox		 Don't worry, they have no idea where you are.
parker		You sonofabitch. How could you let them put the implant in my head? How?
madison		He didn't know about the neural toxin.  I did.
parker		 You knew the entire time? Can you give me one good reason why I shouldn't kill you right now?
cox		She saved your life, Parker. She didn't have to, but she did.
parker		 Then I guess we're even.
madison		 How did you find out about the toxin?
parker		Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him.
madison		You're not capable of it.
parker		I pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember?
madison		I was wrong.  And I was wrong not to tell you Grimes was part of Sid. I should have told you. I won't make the same mistake again.
cox		The sonofa-bitch is still out there, Parker.
parker		 When this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head?
cox		On my life, I promise you I will.
parker		If you're lying, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
foreman		Who the hell are you?
madison		The rally's a little obvious as a target, don't you think?
parker		I told you before, Grimes liked to be obvious.
parker		Part of him is.
parker		See something?
madison		I'm not sure...on the bridge...the guy at the payphone...
parker		Nice work.
madison		 Thanks.
sniper		 Say goodbye, Parker Barnes...
parker		Why's that?
cox		Hey, Sid, what were you planning on doing with the C-4?
parker		NOOOOOO!
his pov		Sid 6.7 lands on top of a garbage truck passing beneath the bridge. The garbage truck disappears beneath the bridge.
madison		 I figured you'd show up sooner or later...
parker		Where did you plant the C-4?!
madison		 Find out anything?
parker		A bomb's going off tomorrow night, but I have no idea where.
lindenmeyer		 There is only one way to get any
madison		Can I ask you something?
parker		 You mean there's something you haven't asked me?
madison		 Why are you going to do this?
parker		You don't know?
madison		 That's why I'm asking.
parker		Because this painintheass criminal psychology expert has helped me understand what I'm capable of. And what I'm not.  And better than anyone else, I am
parker		Where did you plant the C-4?!
parker		 You can't die until you tell me where the C-4 is. Where is it?!
lindenmeyer		I told you this would work.. By setting back the clocks, he has absolutely no idea he's in virtual reality. He still thinks he's in the real world.
madison		 What's wrong with Parker?
lindenmeyer		 How should I know?
madison		 Show me his physical sensory level.
lindenmeyer		I wonder how that...
parker		 Don't move, and don't make a sound. Got it?
madison		What's wrong?
lindenmeyer		He's developing a hemisphere imbalance.
madison		Talk so I can understand.
lindenmeyer		If I don't adjust the level of neural information each side of his brain is receiving, he won't be able to walk when I take him out of VR.
madison		Then fix it.
lindenmeyer		I need you to hold this. It can't get any dirt on it.
parker		I thought you liked me being in the audience. Don't you want me to see it?
parker		 You are going after Mayor Bennett.
parker		Aren't you going to watch with me?
parker		What are you talking about?
parker		 Madison, get me out of here! MADISON!
lindenmeyer		 She's taking a nap at the moment.
lindenmeyer		Come on, live. Live!
parker		MADISON!!!
lindenmeyer		Of course you are.
lindenmeyer		Help me get out of here.
lindenmeyer		 What...are you doing?!
lindenmeyer		I'm begging you...please don't kill me! Please!
madison		You okay?
parker		 ...I think so...You?
madison		 More or less.
parker		Lindenmeyer?
madison		My guess is dead.
parker		Sid?
madison		I don't know.
parker		 Elizabeth Deane, please. Tell her it's Parker Barnes...
deane		Barnes, where the hell have you been?!
parker		Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been?
deane		What did you find out?
parker		Call off the manhunt looking for me. I didn't kill the transport guards.
deane		It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the shooter.  Did you find out where the bomb is?
parker		No, but I've confirmed the reelection rally is the target.  How much C-4 is missing?
deane		Enough to level an entire city block.
parker		If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel.
deane		 Demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. I don't know where...
parker		 Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
deane		You know how much man power you're talking about?
parker		You're the highest law enforcement official in the country. Use the fucking army if you need to.
deane		 This better not be a wild goose chase.
parker		Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today?
deane		 Don't forget, convict, if this psycho isn't stopped, you go right back to rotting in a prison cell.
madison		Give him a break, would you?
male voice		 This is demo team 27 leader. I think we just found what we've been looking for...
team leader		One more and we're home free...
deane		Thank God.
deane		 What's the problem?
team leader		The good news is, we're finished here. The bad news is...
aide		You've got a phone call.
parker		 You son-ofabitch, I'm going to kill you.
parker		 I'm sorry, I thought you were somebody else.
alexiev		I've discovered something about Lindenmeyer'5 Maestro teaching tool I thought you should know...  The harm done to the music students who used the device  it was not by accident. The machine was designed explicitly for that purpose. Lindenmeyer intended to hurt the kids using it.
parker		Jesus Christ.  Lindenmeyer.
madison		Lindenmeyer never got over wanting to kill kids with more musical than he had...
guest conductor		 Are you just going to stand there, or do you want something?
parker		Listen to me, a bomb is planted somewhere in the Hollywood Bowl! Evacuate everybody!
female voice		I'm sorry, sir, I don't have the authorization to do that.
parker		Then put somebody on who does!
male voice		What's seems to be the problem?
parker		You've got to stop the concert! A bomb is going to go off!
male voice		I'm sorry, sir, the concert has already started.
parker		 Hey, old buddy, old pal, good to see you again.
parker		Now, is that any way to talk to an old friend?
madison		Hey, Parker...
parker		How's your pulse?
madison		 I couldn't tell you.
parker		Then shoot him already.
madison		Duck!
madison		What do we do now?
parker		You won't want to watch. Turn around.
madison		What should we do with it?
parker		Mind if I borrow a couple of your tools for a second?
driver		Be my guest.
parker		Care to join me?
****Dialogues from script :Visitor.txt****

woman		Mr. Vale?
walter		Yes.
woman		Hello. I'm Barbra Watson. Nice to meet you.
walter		Yes. Come in.
barbara		Thank you.
walter		Can I take your coat?
barbara		No, thank you.
walter		OK. Would you like anything to drink?
barbara		No.  Shall we get started?
walter		OK.
barbara		Let's try it again.
walter		The same thing?
barbara		Yes. Remember, fingers curved. Like a tunnel.
walter		OK.
barbara		Don't flatten.
walter		What?
barbara		I said "make room for the train." It's something that I tell my kids. If you curve your fingers like this...  Then the train can pass through the tunnel.
walter		Here.
barbara		Thank you. Next Tuesday at the same time?
walter		No. I don't think I'm going to continue with our lessons.
barbara		Oh, no. Are you giving up?
walter		No.
barbara		Oh. OK. Goodbye.
walter		Goodbye.
barbara		Mr. Vale? If I may ask, how many teachers have you had before me?
walter		Four.
barbara		Well, for what it's worth, it's difficult to learn an instrument at your age. Especially if you don't possess a natural gift for it. I'm not saying this to be mean. But if you do decide to give up then I would really like to buy your piano. It's a beautiful instrument.
walter		East Asia's experience is really the exception to the rule, because the conditions there that made trade liberalization for the Middle East successful weren't present in the developing countries in sub- Saharan Africa, and in Central and South America.
walter		Come in.
student		Hi.
walter		Why is it late?
student		I had some personal things to deal with.
walter		I'm sorry. I can't accept it now.
student		But...
walter		I'm sorry.
student		You know you still haven't given us a syllabus.
walter		 I know.
walter		Yes.
charles		Hello Walter.
walter		Charles.
charles		I'm sorry to interrupt.
walter		That's OK.
charles		Walter, Shelley can't make it down to the NYU conference to present your paper. I'm going to need you to cover for her.
walter		Why can't she go?
charles		She's been put on bed rest until she has the baby.
walter		When?
charles		Next week. We'll cover your class and make the arrangements.
walter		I wish I could, but now is not a very good time, Charles.
charles		I understand but you co-authored the paper and the Dean wants it presented. He wants to keep Shelley on track for tenure.
walter		I just don't think I can with the start of classes and my book.
charles		You're only teaching one class, Walter.
walter		So I can stay focused on my writing. I'd really rather not go right now.
charles		I'm sorry but there really isn't another option at this point.
walter		Charles, the truth is this is really Shelley's paper. I just agreed to co-author it because she asked me to. I'm not really prepared to present it.
charles		That may be the case but you are the co-author and she can't go. Look Walter, you can take it up with the Dean if you want, but, as your friend, I wouldn't advise it. Not with that argument.
karen		Here you go, cutey.
walter		Thanks.
karen		So I thought you forgot about me. Where've you been hiding?
walter		Just busy with work.
karen		Well you're never gonna make it on the wall with that excuse. I'm glad your back. Give a holler if you need anything. I'm just gabbing with one of my girlfriends.
walter		OK.
karen		When are you going?
walter		Today after class.
karen		Sounds like fun. I'm gonna go have a cigarette. You want some coffee?
walter		Yeah. Thanks.
walter		Hello?
walter		It's OK. I'm not going...
african woman		Leave me alone! My boyfriend is coming home!
walter		I'm not going to hurt you.
african woman		Who are you? What are you doing in here!?
walter		This is my apartment.
african woman		What do you mean? This apartment does not belong to you. How did you get in?
walter		My name is Walter Vale. I have keys. It's my...
man's voice		What the fuck?!
zainab		I'm in here! He is crazy!
walter		Stop it! I am not...
walter		OK. OK.
tarek		 Are you OK?
zainab		 I'm fine.
tarek		 Who is this?
zainab		 I have no idea! I was in the bath and he was just standing there.
tarek		 Did you touch her?! Did you touch her?!
walter		No! No!
zainab		 He didn't touch me! But how did he get in? He said he has keys.
tarek		Do you have keys?
walter		Yes! Yes! I have keys. It's my apartment.
zainab		 What does he mean it's his apartment?
tarek		I don't know! Show me your keys!
walter		This is my apartment. I've owned it for twenty-five years.
tarek		So why haven't you been here!?
walter		I live in Connecticut. I haven't used it in a long time.
tarek		Are you friends with Ivan?
walter		Ivan? Who is Ivan?
zainab		 I knew this would happen! He probably called the police.
tarek		 Did you call the police?
walter		No.
tarek		You didn't call the police?
walter		No.
tarek		And you don't know Ivan?
walter		I don't know Ivan. Who is he?
tarek		He rented us this place. He said it belonged to his friend who was out of town.
walter		I don't know who he is but this is my apartment. I assure you.
tarek		Shit!
tarek		Enough! OK. Look. We don't want any trouble. We will get out of your apartment. This is all a mistake. I'm sorry.
walter		OK.
tarek		We will leave, OK?
walter		Yes. OK.
zainab		 Where are we going to go?
tarek		 I don't know but we have to go.
zainab		 I know we have to go. I am not stupid!
tarek		Are you OK?
walter		Yes. I'm just going to sit down.
tarek		Of course. Please.
walter		Yeah. I'm OK.
tarek		OK. Well, we'll pack up and get out.
tarek		I know I'm in trouble when she starts speaking Wolof.
walter		How long have you lived here?
tarek		Two months. We will pay you if you want.
zainab		I think so. Do you want to check!?
tarek		Here is the coffee you wanted.
walter		Good bye.
tarek		 Look I know. Come on man, it'll just be for a night or two until we figure something out. OK.
zainab		Tarek?
tarek		 Can you check and call me back? OK. Thanks.
zainab		Tarek?
tarek		What!?
walter		You left this at the apartment.
tarek		Thanks.
walter		Do you know where you're going to stay tonight?
tarek		Yeah.
tarek		You like classical music, huh?
walter		Yes.
tarek		Me too. Do you play piano?
walter		No.  Do you?
tarek		Me? No. I play the djembe. Well, thanks again for letting us stay. You saved me a lot of trouble.
walter		OK. Good night.
zainab		Stop it, Tarek. He'll hear us.
tarek		Trust me. He's asleep.
zainab		You don't know that.
tarek		So let him hear. The guy probably needs some excitement.
zainab		I think he's probably had enough for one night.
tarek		I don't know. We'll figure it out tomorrow. Who knows? Maybe he'll let us stay. He's not really using the place.
zainab		I don't want to be his roommate!
tarek		OK. OK. So we'll figure it out in the morning. I promise, habibti.
zainab		No.
tarek		Really?
zainab		No. I don't love you.
tarek		Not even a little?
zainab		No.
tarek		So what is this?
zainab		It's your punishment.
tarek		But what about our roommate?
zainab		Shhh.
walter		Good morning.
zainab		Morning.
walter		I made some coffee.
zainab		Thank you.
walter		Have a good day.
zainab		Goodbye.
speaker		That will be on the last day of conference. I hope you can all attend. And now I'd like to welcome my distinguished colleague and the winner of John Bates Clark Award, Stephen Kriegman.
stephen kriegman		Thank you, Shiva. Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here.
stephen kriegman		Jamie!
jamie		Stephen, how are you?
walter		Yes.
walter		Yes.
jacob		I used to live here with my mother. Your wife used to give me piano lessons.
walter		Oh. Right.
jacob		It has been a long time. I thought that maybe you sold the place. Oh. This is Sprinkles.  Say "hi", Sprinkles. Is your wife here with you?
walter		No. She passed away.
jacob		What?! No! I had no idea. I'm so sorry. She was such a nice lady. And I just loved listening to her play.
walter		How's your mother?
jacob		She moved to Florida. Now I live here. It's nice. There are a lot of new faces. I hardly know anyone anymore. But I have Sprinkles so...
walter		Nice to see you, Jacob.
jacob		You too, Mr. Vale. Goodbye. Welcome back.
walter		 It is important to distinguish between both our current political assessment and our...It is important to distinguish between our current political assessment...
german economist		However, we do find that financial globalization can be beneficial under the right circumstances. Empirically, good institutions and quality of governance are crucial in helping developing countries derive the benefits of globalization.
walter		Yes. In a minute.  I have to make a call.
tarek		Hey Walter. Welcome home.
walter		Hi.
tarek		You're home early.
walter		It was a half day.
tarek		How was the conference?
walter		Fine.
tarek		Sorry about the pants. I've been playing like this since I was a kid.
walter		That's good. You can keep practicing if you like.
tarek		Really? It won't bother you?
walter		No.   It's fine.
tarek		Great. Thanks. I'll keep my pants on.
walter		OK. Thank you.
tarek		I'm sorry. That was my mother. If I don't call her every day she thinks something happened to me.
walter		Are you sure that you wouldn't like some?
zainab		I don't drink.
tarek		 She is a good Muslim. I'm a bad one.
zainab		Are you finished?
walter		Yes. Thank you. Here, let me...
zainab		It's the least I can do.
walter		Well, thank you for the dinner. It was very good.
zainab		You're welcome.
tarek		So what's the conference about?
walter		Economic Growth in Developing Nations.
tarek		That's us.  Syria. Senegal.
walter		Three. I'm working on my fourth.
tarek		Four books?! Great. My father was a writer. A journalist.
walter		Is he still writing?
tarek		No. He died. Before we left Syria.
walter		I'm sorry.
tarek		So am I.
zainab		Tarek. It's eight-thirty.
tarek		Oh. We have to go.  I have a gig tonight.
walter		I have to get some work done but thank you.
tarek		OK. Well maybe another time
walter		OK.
tarek		Bye.
zainab		 Why did you invite him?
tarek		 We're staying in his apartment. What could I do?
zainab		 Well I would have been the one stuck sitting with him while you played your drum.
tarek		You know you are very sexy when you're mad at me.
tarek		Cool.
walter		He's very good.
zainab		Yes.
walter		The whole band is very good.
zainab		Yes.
tarek		Sorry guys. Let's go.
walter		Tarek?
tarek		It sounded good Walter.
walter		Yeah. Well. I was just...I'm sorry if I...
tarek		Don't be sorry. That's what it's there for.
walter		Yes.
tarek		OK. Now Walter, I know you're a very smart man but with the drum you have to remember not to think. Thinking just screws it up. OK?
walter		OK.
tarek		Now just give it a couple of bangs.
walter		Oh. Right.     Sorry.
tarek		Better. Did you think?
walter		No.
tarek		Good. Now one more thing, Walter. You listen to classical music so you think in fours. One. Two. Three. Four. Da. Da. Da. Da. This is an African drum. So we are gonna play in three's. Tat. Tat. Tat. You have to forget your classical. Leave it behind. Tat. Tat. Tat. One. Two. Three. Come on. Follow me.
walter		Hello.
zainab		Hello. Where is Tarek?
walter		He went out. To look at another apartment.
zainab		Are you OK?
walter		Yeah. Tarek is teaching me the drum. I'm practicing. Don't worry, I'll keep my pants on.
zainab		What?
walter		Nothing. I was just...nothing.
tarek		Hey Walter, what time are you done tomorrow?
walter		I have to present a paper at eleven. I should be done by twelve- thirty.
tarek		Cool.
darren		 I love this food.
tarek		That's good. Because the Chinese are taking over the world.
darren		That's not gonna happen.
tarek		It's already happening. One day our kids will be going to China for jobs. Ask Walter.
darren		You think that's true?
walter		Well...if China continues to threaten the wage earners in the first-world economies by keeping wages down, then it's really just a matter of time. What they buy they inflate. What they sell they deflate. But then you have to ask the question `who's paying the cost?'. And the answer is the Chinese people.
tarek		You see?
walter		Fine. Thanks.
tarek		Cool. Guess what? I found an apartment in Brooklyn. We can move in on Monday.
walter		That's good.
tarek		Yeah. It's small but it's a nice building. I just hope Zainab likes it.
walter		I think she will as long as no else lives there.
tarek		I think you're right. Come on, let's go. You should take off the name tag.
walter		Oh. Yeah. Thanks.
tarek		Yeah. I'm starving. Do you like shwarmas?
walter		Uh...yeah. I like sharmas.
tarek		Shwarmas.
walter		Yeah.
tarek		Here. This is for you. For letting us stay.
walter		Thank you.
tarek		It's Fela Kuti. You know him?
walter		No.
tarek		You don't know Fela? Oh, man! Walter, you are in for a treat. He started the whole Afro-Beat movement. And his drummer Tony Allen was just scary, man. You want to play drums, you have to listen to this.
walter		OK. I will.
omar		 Hey Tarek. How's it going?
tarek		 Good, Omar. How are you?
omar		 Not bad. It's fall in New York, you know? How's the band?
tarek		 Good. Playing a lot. New girlfriend?
omar		 New friend.
tarek		 You have a lot friends
omar		 I'm a very nice guy. Au revoir.
tarek		Au revoir.
walter		Yeah.
zainab		Yes. I made it.
zainab		Thirty-five dollars.
zainab		No. thiry-five.
zainab		Senegal.
zainab		 Thank you very much.
zev		How far is Senegal from Cape Town?
zainab		Far.
zev		I told a guy I was from Israel yesterday and he asked if I had ever visited the Holy Land.
tarek		Zev!   How are you?
zev		Good man.
tarek		Hey honey.
zainab		Hello. Hi, Walter.
walter		Hi.
tarek		How's business?
zev		Ahh. You know.
tarek		Her stuff is great, right? She made me this?
zainab		Tarek, I told you we have to pick up my new table today. He said he would only hold it for today.
tarek		I know. I know. No problem.
zainab		Tarek. You always say "no problem" and then you are late or you forget.
tarek		I know. I will not be long. We'll go up and play and then we'll come back to help you. I promise, habibti.
zainab		Yes. It's always "habibti" when you want your way. It closes at five p.m. Not Arab time, Tarek.
tarek		No. Not Arab time. Real time, habibti.
zainab		Don't "habibti" me.
walter		What does habibti mean?
tarek		Habibti? It means "beloved one".
walter		Does she know that?
tarek		He's been playing here for a long time.
walter		Is he good?
tarek		I have no idea but it's cool. I always wanted to play down here. It's supposed to be good money.
walter		So why haven't you?
tarek		Maybe some day we can do it together. Split the profits.
tarek		What do you think?
walter		I think I'll just watch.
tarek		Come on, Walter.
tarek		Shit, we have to get home. Zainab is gonna kill me. I'm on Arab time again.
walter		What is Arab time?
tarek		It means I'm late by an hour. All Arabs are late by an hour. It's genetic. We can't help it.
tarek		That's our train!
man		Excuse me, sir. Could you please step over here.
tarek		What are you doing?
man		NYPD. Could you please step over here?
tarek		Please, what do you want...
tarek		I did not jump it! I paid. I paid! It just didn't work.
walter		Sir, I did pay his fare.
walter		But I paid this man's...
tarek		No.
tarek		Syria. Why?
walter		I don't think that's necessary.
walter		But he didn't mean...
walter		Where are you taking him?
tarek		Walter take the drum. Tell Zainab what happened but don't let her come for me. I will call you.
zainab		Where is Tarek?
walter		He was arrested.
zainab		What?!
walter		Yes. In the subway.
zainab		Arrested?!
walter		Yes. It was just a misunderstanding. They said he would be released later tonight.
zainab		How could this happen? He knows better! He would not do anything wrong.
walter		He didn't. I'm sure we it will be OK.
zainab		No. It won't be OK.
walter		Yes it will. I went down to the precinct and made a statement.
zainab		 That doesn't matter! He is illegal! As am I! We are not citizens. Do you know what that means? Do you?! Of course you don't. How could you?
walter		Yes. His name is Tarek Khalil. Khalil. K. H. A. L. I. L. That's right. Yes. I came down and made a statement. They said he would be released. That was six hours ago. Well when should we know? Tomorrow? Why? But he...OK. OK. Thank you.
zainab		Well?
walter		They've moved him.
zainab		To where?
walter		To a detention center in Queens. He was turned over to immigration. They said we can see him during visiting hours tomorrow night from five to ten.
zainab		I can't visit him or I will end up in that place too.
zainab		Yes. We are going tomorrow. The appointment is at eleven. I don't know, he found him. What? No. I don't want to. I just don't, Tarek. Yes. I've already called him. I know. I know. I just want you to be here with me, Tarek.
zainab		Yes.
zainab		Yes. I know.
zainab		Almost a year.
walter		A week.
zainab		His mother lives in Michigan.
zainab		Yes, she is.
zainab		No. Tarek told me not to tell her. He doesn't want to worry her.
zainab		No. He has had no trouble. He is a good person.
zainab		Yes. When he first arrived from Syria. But he didn't get it.
zainab		Seven years ago.
zainab		I don't know.
walter		Why wouldn't they appeal it?
walter		So what happens if that's the case?
zainab		They had to leave Syria! They had no choice!
walter		Is there anything I can do?
guard		That detainee has been moved.
slavic man		To where?
guard		I don't know.
slavic man		He was here yesterday.
guard		But now he's not. That's all I know. You can call ICE. The number is on the wall. Next. Sir, step aside please.
walter		Hi. I'm here to see Tarek Khalil.
guard		You been here before?
walter		No.
guard		Can I see your license please?
tarek		Walter. Thank you for coming.
walter		Of course.
tarek		How is Zainab?
walter		She's upset. I have a letter from her.
tarek		You can't give it to me. It has to be sent to me by mail. But you can put it up to the glass.
walter		How are they treating you?
tarek		OK. The place is very depressing. There is no privacy. The lights are always on.
walter		Do you need anything?
tarek		No. I just want to get out of here.
walter		Zainab and I met with a lawyer today.
tarek		Yes. What did he say?
walter		He is going to stop by to see you tomorrow.
tarek		You mean when we came here? Yeah.
walter		Did you go to your deportation hearing?
tarek		Yeah.
walter		You did?
tarek		Yeah. We did everything they told us to.
walter		Yes.
tarek		Good. And tell Zainab I will call her as soon as I can.
walter		Goodbye.
zainab		Did you ask him if he went to his hearing?
walter		Yes. He said that he did.
zainab		Walter, I'm going to leave now. I have a cousin in the Bronx. I will stay with him for now.
walter		You don't have to leave. You can stay here.
zainab		I think it's best if I leave. When Tarek calls me then I will tell him. You know how to reach me if you need to. Is it OK if I leave Tarek's things here for now? My cousin's place is not very big.
walter		Yes.
walter		But I thought you said you went to the hearing.
tarek		We did. I remember it.
walter		So why is there a final order on you? Did he say?
tarek		No. He didn't know yet. He just said that unless he can find a way to reopen the case quickly they're going to deport me.
walter		Maybe you should call your mother. She might have...
tarek		No. I don't want her to worry. I can handle this.
walter		Did he say anything else?
tarek		Yeah. Three years ago I was working for some guy who said he was going to sponsor me for my green card but then he turned out to be jerk. But the lawyer said that might allow us to reopen the case. I don't even understand it.
walter		He's trying to deal with the case as quickly as possible.
tarek		OK. Just please...don't forget about me in here.
walter		I won't.
tarek		Are you still practicing?
walter		Yes.
tarek		You should go back to the drum circle.
walter		 No.
tarek		OK. But listen to that Fela CD. That will help you, I promise.
walter		I will.
tarek		So show me what you've been working on.
walter		What?
tarek		Show me. On that. Come on. I need some music, man.
walter		Now?
tarek		Don't worry. They can't arrest you. At least not yet.
walter		OK.
tarek		Ah. There it is. Good. Good. You are getting better.
walter		Hello.
arab woman		I'm sorry. I must have the wrong apartment.
walter		Can I help you?
arab woman		I'm looking for my son.
walter		Are you Tarek's mother?
arab woman		Yes.
walter		Oh. This is Tarek's apartment. I...share the apartment with him.
arab woman		He did not mention that he lived with someone.
walter		I'm not here very often. I live in Connecticut.
arab woman		Is Tarek here?
walter		No. He's...uh...he's not here. But please come in.
arab woman		Thank you.
walter		I'm Walter. Walter Vale.
arab woman		I'm Mouna Khalil. I'm sorry to show up unannounced but my son calls me everyday. He has not called me now for five days. I have tried his cell phone but he does not answer.
walter		Would you like to sit down?
mouna		Thank you.
walter		Would you like something to drink? Coffee or water?
mouna		No. Is my son alright, Mr. Vale?
walter		Tarek was arrested. He's being held in a detention center in Queens. They are trying to deport him.
mouna		Where is Queens?
walter		It's not far from here. Twenty minutes.
mouna		You have been there?
walter		Yes. I saw him yesterday. He's OK.
mouna		How did this happen?
walter		He was stopped in the subway station. He didn't do anything wrong.
mouna		I would like to go there. To Queens.
walter		OK. But Mrs. Khalil. The lawyer mentioned that...I don't think that you can...
mouna		I know I can't visit Tarek, Mr. Vale. I just want to see where they are holding him.
walter		OK. I can take you if you'd like.
mouna		Thank you.
walter		Let me get my coat.
walter		Have you been to New York before, Mrs. Khalil?
mouna		No. Tarek wanted to come to New York to play music. I did not want him to go but...do you have children, Mr. Vale?
walter		I have a son. He lives in London.
mouna		And your wife?
walter		My wife passed away.
mouna		I'm sorry.
walter		That's it.
mouna		This is where the prison is?
walter		Yes. That's it.
mouna		It does not look like a prison.
walter		I think that's the point.
mouna		How many people are in there?
walter		Tarek said about three hundred.
mouna		I'll wait there. Here.
tarek		Walter, I thought you were leaving.
walter		I was.   Tarek, your mother is here.
tarek		What? My mother?! Where?
walter		She is waiting outside.
tarek		When did she arrive?
walter		Today.
tarek		Oh man. Why did she come? She can do nothing for me.
walter		She said she hadn't heard from you.
tarek		Walter. Listen to me. She can not stay here. She doesn't know anyone in New York. I'm sorry but you must get her to go back to Michigan.
walter		OK. OK. Here. I have a letter from her.
waiter		Do you need anything else?
mouna		No.
waiter		 Where are you from?
mouna		 I am Palestinian from Damascus.
waiter		 Ah. I knew it. I am from Egypt. Alexandria. I'm Nasim. Why are you here?
mouna		 I am visiting my son.
nasim		 He is in detention.
mouna		 Yes.
nasim		 It's a bad place. I'm lucky. I have a green card.
mouna		How is he?
walter		He's good but he's concerned about you being here.
mouna		I will not leave.
walter		Mrs. Khalil, I'm not sure that your being in New York will do any good. We have a very good lawyer working on Tarek's case...
mouna		 Mr. Vale, I cannot go back to Michigan knowing that my son is in that building. Even if I can't see him, I will stay.
nasim		 The tea is on me.
mouna		 Thank you.
nasim		 Is that your lawyer? Or your husband?
mouna		 Goodbye.
nasim		 See you next time.
jacob		Oh. Hello, Mr. Vale.
walter		Hello, Jacob.
jacob		Oh, hello again. Did you find your son?
mouna		Yes. Thank you.
jacob		 I'm Jacob, by the way. I live on the third floor. And this is Sprinkles.
mouna		Nice to meet you, Jacob. I'm Mouna.
jacob		So you two know each other?
mouna		Yes. Mr. Vale knows my son.
jacob		Oh. Who is that?
mouna		Tarek.
jacob		Oh. Tarek. He is very nice. And so is his girlfriend. They are both so polite.
mouna		Thank you.
jacob		My mother and I are planning a trip to go to Israel next summer. She's always wanted to go.
mouna		I hope you enjoy it. Now if you'll excuse me.
jacob		Oh sure. We need to go on our walk and do our business. Very nice to meet you, Mouna.
mouna		You too, Jacob.
jacob		Goodbye, Mr. Vale.
walter		Goodbye.
mouna		Thank you, Mr. Vale.
walter		Where are you going?
mouna		I will find a hotel.
walter		You can stay here. You can use Tarek's room.
mouna		Thank you for your offer but I cannot accept this. I don't want to impose on you.
walter		You're not imposing. Please. I would like you to stay.
mouna		Again, thank you. But I will manage. Goodbye.
walter		Mrs. Khalil?
walter		The bathroom is just across the hall.
mouna		Thank you, Mr. Vale.
walter		You can call me Walter.
mouna		And I am Mouna.
walter		Do you need anything else?
mouna		No. Thank you. Good night.
walter		Good night.
mouna		Good morning.
walter		Good morning.
mouna		Tarek said hello.
walter		How is he?
mouna		I can't really tell. He wants me to leave. But I am not leaving.
walter		Well, you can stay here as long as you need to.
mouna		Thank you. That is very generous of you.
walter		Thank you for the newspaper.
mouna		Walter? Did Tarek and his girlfriend, Zainab, live here together?
walter		Uhm...Yes. They did.
mouna		And where is she now?
walter		She's staying with her cousin in the Bronx.
mouna		I would like to meet her.
walter		We can go by her stall.
mouna		Her what?
walter		Her stall. She sells jewelry in a stall.
mouna		Oh. OK.
mouna		Do you spend a lot of time in the city?
walter		No. Not really. I just came down to present a paper at a conference.
mouna		You wrote it?
walter		Yes. Well I coauthored it.
mouna		Congratulations.
mouna		We appealed. It took two years.
mouna		Yes.
mouna		No.
mouna		Yes. I would remember this.
mouna		Yes. Eventually we had to. But we had our mail advanced.
walter		So if they didn't get the letter then does this help us?
mouna		So you can help him?
mouna		Lucky?
mouna		Can you explain what that means?
mouna		How long will he be in detention?
mouna		Do you have children, Mr. Shah?
mouna		Thank you. Where are you from?
mouna		Which one is she?
walter		There. In the middle.
mouna		 The black woman? That is Zainab?
walter		Yes.
mouna		She is very black.
zainab		Walter?
walter		Hi Zainab. This is Mouna Khalil. Tarek's mother.
zainab		Oh.
mouna		Hello, Zainab.
zainab		It is a pleasure to meet you, Mrs. Khalil.
mouna		Please. Call me Mouna.
zainab		OK. I'm sorry. I did not know you were coming.
mouna		Neither did I.
zainab		Thank you.
mouna		Do you have time for coffee or a walk?
zainab		Yes. I would like that. But I have to watch my table.
zainab		I'm living with my cousin. He has two kids. And his mother. I mean his wife...I'm sorry, I am very nervous.
mouna		Why?
zainab		I don't know. Have you spoken with Tarek?
mouna		Yes. He called me this morning. He is doing all right.
zainab		I wish that I could see him. Just for a minute.
mouna		Me too. How long have you been here?
zainab		Two years. I was in detention when I first arrived. Three months. It was horrible. I would probably still be there but they closed the facility for poor conditions. They released some of the women on parole because we were...low risk. I met Tarek one year later.  I am sorry for what happened with Tarek. I hope you do not blame me.
mouna		Blame you?     No. I do not blame you.
zainab		Tarek was doing nothing wrong. I miss him so much. I don't know what I am going to do without him.
mouna		He said the same thing about you.
zainab		He did?
mouna		Yes.
zainab		What?
mouna		I would like you to show me something that you and Tarek liked to do. Some place that you like to go.
zainab		Like what?
mouna		Anything. Whatever you want.
zainab		OK. But maybe we should get Walter first.
mouna		So what is in Staten Island?
zainab		I don't know. We never got off. We just would go to the other side and then come back.
walter		Why?
zainab		It's free. And it felt like we were going somewhere.
mouna		Can you go up in the Statue?
walter		Yes. I think so.
mouna		You haven't been?
walter		No.
mouna		Oh.
walter		Excuse me.  Hello? Oh. Hi Charles.
tarek		You went on the ferry?
walter		Yes.
tarek		My mother too?
walter		Yes. She liked it.
tarek		Did Zainab tell you how we used pretend we arriving in New York for the first time?
walter		Yeah. She told us.
tarek		You know they don't even let us outside here. They just cut a hole in the roof in one place.
walter		Really?
tarek		Yeah. It's crazy stuff.
walter		Yes. I think your mother likes her very much.
tarek		My mother's not going home, is she?
walter		I don't think so.
tarek		I know she's thinking about my father. He spent seven years in jail in Syria for something he wrote in the newspaper. By the time they released him he was very sick. He died two months later. That's when we came here.
walter		I'm sorry.
tarek		She thinks the same thing is gonna happen to me.
walter		Are you hungry, Mouna? We can stop for dinner.
mouna		I would prefer to cook if you don't mind?
walter		OK.
mouna		Should we stop at a market?
walter		Yeah. That's probably a good idea.
walter		Would you like a glass of wine?
mouna		No thank you.
walter		Mouna? I need to go back to Connecticut tomorrow. For work. I told Tarek.
mouna		How long will you be gone?
walter		I don't know yet. I'll try to make it back to visit Tarek as soon as I can.
mouna		You don't have keep visiting him, Walter. I'm sure you are busy.
walter		I'll see what I can do.
mouna		OK. Dinner will be ready soon.
mouna		Do you go to Broadway, Walter?
walter		Broadway? Uhm. No. I haven't been in a long time.
mouna		Tarek sent me the CD for "Phantom of the Opera" for my birthday. The music is lovely. Have you seen it?
walter		No. I haven't.
mouna		I haven't either but I think I know every word.
walter		Tarek is teaching me the drum.
mouna		Really? How is it going?
walter		Well, I sound a lot better when he's playing with me.
mouna		How is your teaching going, Walter?
walter		My teaching?
mouna		Yes.
walter		Well...I have a lighter schedule so I can work on my book.
mouna		Your book? What is it about?
walter		Well, it covers quite a bit, so it's hard to explain.
mouna		Are you almost finished?
walter		I'm close.
mouna		You don't like to talk about your work?
walter		No. It's just a bit complicated.
mouna		Why is that?
walter		It just is. It's just not a process that's easy to talk about with someone who's not a writer.
mouna		I didn't mean to pry.
walter		I shouldn't have spoken to you like that.
mouna		It's OK.
walter		Thank you. You have my number if you need anything.
mouna		I'll be fine. Thank you. Have a safe trip.
walter		Well good bye.
mouna		Goodbye.
walter		Good afternoon.
mouna		Walter.
walter		No. Thank you.
mouna		I like this CD very much.   The music is lovely.
walter		Yes.
mouna		She was beautiful.
walter		Thank you.
mouna		These are different glasses?
walter		Yes.
mouna		Are they new?
walter		Yes.
mouna		They're nice.
walter		Thank you.
mouna		I was going to make some lunch. Are you hungry?
walter		Yes. Thank you.
mouna		Yes.
walter		I was wondering if...Thursday night ... Do you have plans?
mouna		No, Walter, I have no plans.
walter		Well, I thought that...we might do something.
mouna		OK.
walter		OK.
tarek		They keep moving people.
walter		To where?
tarek		I don't know. I think to other detention centers. Two Moroccan guys were just moved. They had no idea. Suddenly they were just gone.
walter		Has anyone said anything to you?
tarek		No one in here knows anything. I'm not a criminal. I have committed no crime. What do they think? I'm a terrorist? There are no terrorists in here. The terrorists have money. They have support. This is not fair!
walter		I know.
tarek		 How do you know?! You're out there!
walter		I'm sorry.
tarek		It's just... I'm starting to wonder if I'm ever going to get out of here. I sit in here at night and I keep thinking about Zainab.
walter		 OK. OK. Please do. Thank you. Bye.
mouna		What did he say?
walter		He would make some calls but they can move him to another facility at their discretion.
zainab		What facility? Where?
walter		He said it could be anywhere. Upstate. Pennsylvania. There is even one in Louisiana.
zainab		Louisiana? Where they had the floods?
walter		Yes.
mouna		That's so far.
walter		Yeah.
mouna		Did the lawyer say anything else?
walter		No. No he didn't know anything else.
mouna		No one seems to know anything. It feels like Syria.
mouna		Sorry to keep you waiting.
walter		That's alright. How is he?
mouna		He says hello. He wants to make sure that you are practicing your drum.
walter		I am. You look very nice.
mouna		You too. Should we go?
walter		Yes.
mouna		This city is just so huge! It never ends.
walter		Ready?
mouna		For what?
walter		Yes.
mouna		Now?
walter		Yes. Is that OK?
mouna		That's wonderful. Thank you. I am so excited.
mouna		I have to say that show was really kind of scary.
walter		Yeah. It was kind of scary.
waiter		Are you finished?
mouna		Yes.
waiter		How is everything?
mouna		Very good. But I think I would like a glass of wine.
walter		I'm sorry. I didn't even think to ask.
mouna		It's OK. It's not every night that you see The Phantom.  I'll have a cabernet.
walter		Two please.
waiter		Certainly.
walter		I haven't been to theatre in a long time.
mouna		Me neither. There is a place in Syria called Maaloula. It is a huge outdoor theater. It's beautiful. We used to take Tarek there to see concerts.
walter		Cheers.
mouna		 Cheers.
walter		Mouna, I've taken a leave of absence for the rest of the semester.
mouna		Really? Why?
walter		I just thought I might spend some more time in New York.
mouna		Walter, you do not have to do this for Tarek.
walter		I want to.
mouna		But you have to be in Connecticut. You have your teaching. And your book.
walter		It's fine really.
mouna		This is not your problem, Walter. It's OK that you are busy.
walter		I'm not busy. Not at all.  Mouna, the truth is I haven't been doing any work for a long time.
mouna		You just presented your paper at the conference.
walter		I didn't even write it. I just read it. I've been teaching the same course for twenty years. It doesn't mean anything to me. None of it does. I pretend. I pretend that I'm busy. That I'm writing. Working. But I'm not doing anything.
mouna		Don't be. I appreciate you telling me this.
walter		I don't know.
mouna		I think that is exciting. Not to know.
walter		Mouna, what do you do?
mouna		Do you mean for work?
walter		Yes.
mouna		I work in a car dealership. I take care of the accounting.
walter		Really?
mouna		Yes. It's very exciting.
mouna		What time is it?
mouna		No?! Is it?
walter		Yes.
mouna		My God. Twelve-thirty! I have not been up this late in a long time.
walter		I think that happens a lot in New York.
mouna		Thank you, Walter. That was a very nice evening. It's the most fun I've had in a long time.
walter		I told Tarek I was going to take you. He was very happy about it.
mouna		Good night, Walter.
walter		Good night.
walter		Damn it!
walter		There's a message from Tarek. Something's wrong.
mouna		What did he say?
walter		Just that they were moving him. He didn't know what it meant.
walter		Well when do you expect him back? Can you have him call me the minute he is? It's an emergency. Thank you.  Can you hurry please?
mouna		I hate this feeling.
walter		Hello. I'm here for bed 38. Tarek Khalil.
male guard		He is no longer with us.
walter		What does that mean?
male guard		I'm not sure.
walter		You're not sure? Was he moved to another facility? Another state? What?
male guard		I don't know. I just know that this detainee is no longer in the facility.
walter		Well can you ask someone who does know?!
male guard		Hold on.
walter		Yes. Did you find him?
guard		He's been removed.
walter		Removed? To where?
guard		Deported.
walter		What? When?
guard		He was deported this morning.
walter		He...how can that be? Is there any way to contact him?
guard		I don't know. I don't think so.
walter		You don't think so? What kind of answer is that?!
guard		I'm sorry, sir. That's all the information that I have. Now please step away from the window. You can call the ICE if you have any further questions. The number is on the wall.
mouna		He did nothing wrong.
mouna		Walter, I need to go back to Syria. I should to be there for Tarek.
walter		When are you going to leave?
mouna		Tomorrow. I already bought a ticket. It's best for me to be there as soon as possible.
walter		You won't be able to come back here.
mouna		I know.
walter		Mouna. I'm sorry.
mouna		Good night, Walter.
walter		Yes.
mouna		It's my fault. What happened to Tarek. I did receive the letter telling us to leave. I threw it away. I never told him.
walter		It's not your fault.
mouna		Have you visited your son in London?
walter		No. Not yet.
mouna		You should visit him.
walter		Thank you. It's very nice.
mouna		Let me see.
walter		I like it.
mouna		So do I. You look cool.
walter		Cool?
mouna		Yes. You are very cool, Walter.
mouna		Thank you, Walter. For everything.
walter		I don't want you to go.
mouna		 I don't want to go, habibi.
cut to black		Black Card: "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!" Emma Lazarus Printed on the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty
****Dialogues from script :Wag_the_Dog.txt****

ames		 ...That's him.
businessman		Well, all I know, you don't change horses in the middle of the stream.
businesswoman		"Don't change Horses," well, there's a lot of truth in that.
ames		We're going to...
ames		Thank you, that'll be all.
brean		 Who we got here...?
ames		John Levy, Staff, and Amy Cain, Press Off....
brean		Alright.  Look here, any of you kids hear in this room:  what you hear here, what you say here, what you do here, f'it got out, you leaked it.  Tell'em what they need to know.
ames		When it broke, he said one word:  get me Ronnie Brean.
brean		 What's the thing?  You people get ahead, you sure get nervous.
brean		 ...he made a pass at some Secretary, back in...
angle		BREAN LOOKING ON, AS AMES READS, AND SHAKES HIS HEAD SADLY.  BREAN TAKES THE SHEETS.
ames		...did he have the flu...?
cain		It can be documented that he displayed the...
brean		This ain't the illegal immigrant Nanny.
cain		There was a group of Girlscouts here from Indiana last month.  One of them expressed an interest in a Frederick Remington bust.  The president took her into the oval Office, for a period...
ames		Three minutes.  It couldn't have been over three minutes, the Secret Service...
brean		Okay.  And she's alleging...?
brean		 Jesus, Mary and Joseph.
ames		We are virtually certain it isn't...
brean		Who's got the story? 
ames		Don't you want to know if it's true?
brean		What difference does it make if it's true? 
ames		Front page.  Washington Post.  Tomorrow.
brean		Well, yeah.  Now.  That's not good.  Okay:  Okay.  We'll set up the War Room Here...
brean		Thank you.  Now:  where is he?
levy		China.
brean		When's he coming back...?
levy		Touchdown, Andrews, fourteen hundred, today.
brean		 Alright, now, here:  he stays on the ground in China til Tomorrow.
cain		...why?
brean		...you the Press Office?
cain		...Yes.
brean		 Earn your money.  ...He's ill, the Plane is sick...
cain		 ...Good...
ames		When do we bring'em back?
brean		You gotta give me a day.  I need a day.  He's sick, get it out now.  Get him on the phone'n tell him how sick he is.  We got to get it out before the story breaks, so we aren't quote, responding to it. Issue is as a bulletin.  He's got some rare strain of...
ames		It won't hold.
brean		All I need is the one day.
ames		It won't even hold the one day, Ronnie --
brean		Yes -- It will... Now:  why is the President in China?
levy		Trade Re1ations.
brean		You're goddamn right.  And it's got nothing to do with the B-2 Bomber. 
levy		There is no B-2 Bomber,
brean		That's what I'm telling you.  Clear me a space.  Get me a copy, go rob one, get it off the computer, Wash Post, N.Y. TIMES,
aide		You want some research, flu?  Side-effects of medi....
brean		Naw, we can't play this one catch-up.  That's how long since you stopped beating the wife.  We have to...
ames		We're going to have to explain away the...
brean		They caught him in the closet with a Girlscout.  Side- effects of a pill ain't gone trump that.  You have to keep'em guessing for  Two weeks.  You  don't have to Cure Cancer, Pal, you just have to give them something more interesting than...
cain		What's more interesting than boffing the girlscout?
brean		Well, that's what we're doing here...
brean		 Gemme twenty thousand dollars....
brean		 And gemme a car.
ames		Car and a driver, Mr. Brean, the Westgate, Now, please...
brean		Okay, look, who's takin' the press conference today?
cain		Is there a press conference today?
brean		What do you think?  What I need from you:  I need a base of operations.  Some place in the District.  I need some clean money ...
levy		How much...?
brean		And, to hold it together, I need two days.  There is no B-2 Bomber:  here's what you do ahout that:  whoever is leaking stuff to that geek at the Post, lets it slip, "Geez, I hope this doesn't screw up the B-2 Program..." "What B-2 Program, and why should it screw it up?"  "If the president moves to deploy the B-2 before it is fully tested."  "Deploy the B-2, Why?"  "In the Crisis."
ames		What crisis?
brean		I'm working on it.  Same time, you call Billy Scott at Joint Chiefs, and pour him onna plane right now to Seattle, y'got that...?  All flustered and worried. To talk to the Boeing people.
ames		 Do it...
brean		 And you?
cain		But there isn't a B-2 bomber.
brean		Where'd you go to school, Kid.  Wellesly?
cain		Dartmouth
brean		Then show a little spunk.  There Is no B-2 Bomber, General Scott, the best of your knowledge, is not in Seattle to talk with Boeing...
ames		It won't hold.
brean		One day, Two days?  Course it's gonna hhhh....
angle		ON BREAN AND AMES LOOKING ON. THE CLEANING PEOPLE NOTICE THEY ARE BEING WATCHED AND DISPERSE.
ames		It won't hold, Ronnie, it won't prove out.
brean		We don't need it to prove out.  We need it to distract them for two weeks til the election.
ames		What would do that...?
ames		 What in the world would do that?
brean		I'm working on it.
angle		CAMERA TAKES THEM OUT INTO THE HALL. BREAN LEANS CLOSE TO AMES.
brean		Gimme twenty thousand dollars.
brean		I'll be back within the hour.  Now,
ames		 It's going to be fine.  It's going to be ... you remember in 88, when...
ames		What is it...
brean		What is it?
ames		It's the rough-cut, the other side's new commercial.
brean		That's our commercial.  I've seen it.  That's our commercial.
ames		 Turn up the volume.
brean		What is this?
ames		Twenty thousand dollars.
brean		 Yeah, I'm gonna have to go to L.A.
ames		I'm coming with you.
brean		 Gemme a plane.  Business Aviation, National, one hour. Fly to Chicago.  O'hare, LAX 6 A.M.
ames		I'll see you at National.
angle		HIS POV. A YOUNG STAFFER, IN THE CORNER, SPEAKING SOFTLY ON THE PHONE.
staffer		 Well, I can't tell you on the phone...
angle		IN THE FOREGROUND, BREAN, IN A TAXICAB, WHICH DRIVES AWAY, IN THE B.G., THE MAN IN THE BATHROBE, REENTERING HIS HOUSE.
ames		Tell, tell, tell me again.
brean		....we landing?
ames		Tell me again.
brean		 Lookit, don't worry about it.  It's not a New Concept. Wake me when we touch down, will...
ames		We can't afford a war.
brean		We aren't going to have a war.  We're going to have the "appearance" of a war.
ames		I'm not sure we can afford to have the "appearance" of a war.
brean		What's it gonna cost? 
ames		But, but, but, "they" would find out.
brean		Who would find out?
ames		...the... 
brean		The American "people"?
ames		Yes
brean		Who's gonna tell'em.
ames		...but...
brean		What did they find out about the Gulf War?  One shot: one bomb, falling though the roof, building coulda been made of Legos.
ames		 ...you want us to go to War...
brean		...that's the general idea.
ames		Why?
brean		Why not, what've they ever done for us...?  Also:  they sound... Ah, you see, this is why we have to mobilize the B-2 Bomber...
ames		...they sound what?
brean		Shifty.  Who knows anything about em...
ames		Hold on, hold on, hold on:
brean		Well, I'm gonna hold on, but you went to win this election, you better change the subject.  You wanna change this subject, you better have a War.  What do you need?  It's gotta be quick, it's gotta be dramatic, you got to have an enemy.  Okay?  What do you need in an enemy?  Somebody you fear.  Who do you fear? Som'b'y you don't know.
ames		Who?
brean		Well, I'm working on it....
ames		Albania...
brean		Yes.
ames		Why?
brean		What do you know about them?
ames		...nothing...
brean		Precisely.
ames		What did Albania ever do to us?
brean		What did they ever do for us...?  You see, this is why we have to mobilize the B-2 Bomber.
ames		 ...you want us to go to War with Albania.
brean		Here's what you got to do:  Get your Press Office, Right now.  To deny;  There is no report of Albanian Activity.  They have to deny it. Now, get the C.I.A.
announcer		 American Airlines Announces the departure of flight _____ for Los Angeles, will all Passengers holding...
talking head		Good morning:  With the election eleven days away the world slept, expecting news from the President on Trade and his visit to China, another sort of news, however, has emerged from the Presidential Quarter.  Chris Andrews, station KCRT, Santa Fe Reports:
ames		Top people.  Albanian Desk.  Well, I don't know either, but we probably have one.  Albanian Dusk, C.I.A., N.S.A. roust'em outta bed, sirens blaring....
ames		 I know they'll be in in an hour, get'em now...C.I.A., N.S.A., wake'em up.
ames		 And you tell the staff, anyone leaks anything on this situation, his or her job is going to be...
ames		 ...General Scott in Seattle...?  No, I don't think his trip has got anything to do with the B-2 Bomber. Now...
stewardess		I'm sorry, Sir, I'll have to ask you to...
stewardess		 Did you hear?
brean		Well, I don't know, a lot of these early reports are inflated.
stewardess		... could, could, could he have done it?
brean		...who understands Human Nature?
angle		BACK AT HIS SEAT, THE WOMAN IN THE SEAT ACROSS THE AISLE TO HIM IS TALKING IN AN AIRFONE.
woman		 They used that word...?
woman		 ...what time?  Two Eastern?  Alright, I'll.... Alright.
woman		 ...what do you think...?
brean		...how can any of us know?
woman		 Makes you feel kind of foolish, doesn't it...?
brean		I'm sure that's the worst of it. 
woman		 ...and I was going to vote, for him.
brean		Well, it ain't over til it's over...
brean		How's he doing?
nole		...if it is true, he should, he must step down.  And if it is not true, then he must ... we are informed he has extended his visit to China, I say, on behalf of the American...
announcer		 Senator...Senator... we have to...
nole		I say, on behalf of the American People, Come home, face the music, whatever that may be.  Th'election's in ten days, let the American...
announcer		 Let the American People decide...
announcer		Senator Frederick Nole.  With, excuse me, Senator, that's eleven days, til the election, And the president ahead in the polls by, Bob...?
announcer		Accusations have surfaced, which...
bob		Bill, the White House has announced, that, in response to media pressure there will be a press conference in...
pool attendant		Morning, Mr. Moss.
second attendant		...I'll be right back with your juice...
moss		...with a carrot in it...
angle		DOWN AT THE DESERTED POOL AREA.  ONE NANNY TYPE, WITH A YOUNG KID IN WATERWINGS, FROLICKING IN THE WATER, AND BREAN, AND AMES, WHO ARE SITTING IN POOL CHAIRS.  BREAN RISES, AND WALKS TO GREET MOSS, LEAVING AMES IN THE B.G. TALKING ON A CELL PHONE.
angle		ON MOSS AND BREAN, AS MOSS APPROACHES A BIT TENTATIVELY.
moss		Do I know you?
brean		We have some mutual friends in Washington.
moss		And is it true?
ames		Waal, Mr. Moss, I wouldn't....
moss		You wouldn't be here if it wasn't true.  It's true, right?
moss		And you're here why...?
brean		I'm here, Mr. Moss, because you've shown yourself a great supporter of the Party.
moss		Party's gonna need more than a couple bucks now.
moss		Back where I come from they call this Romeo in Joliet.  I, I, and y'know, I like the guy... he signed his book to me....
moss		"For Progress to occur, it is necessary for Two Generations to Agree...."
moss		Oh, jeez, this guy is fucked.
brean		What one has to do, Mr. Moss.  Is to fight a holding action.
moss		...holding action.  THEY'RE GOING TO TEAR THIS GUY TO Shreds.
brean		If we can hold the break-in-the-dam for ten days, til the election, we...
moss		Yeah, hut you can't hold the dam.  How the hell, n'nu'n', I don't get what you want me to ...
announcer		 Allegations that the president had sexual... Ah... here is the deputy ... assistant under secretary...
moss		I don't ... they're gonna tear this guy to shreds...
levy		 ...the illness of the President, which we are assured, is not serious.  I repeat, it is not serious, the doctors suspect it's a stomach flu, but have advised him not to fly.  He will remain, on the ground, in China for, they estimate, one or two days, I stress that, during this time he will, of...
moss		...he's gotta come back sometime, what the hell is two days gonna buy him.
levy		 Any questions....Mr. Sklansky, Yes...
moss		 ... twelve year old girl...  Breir Rabbit couldh t gut outta this...
levy		 Yes...?
sklansky		 Mr. Levy...
levy		 Yes
sklansky		Would you comment on the rumors... on the rumors that the President's trip, that the President's delay... is due to the situation in Albania?
angle		ON THE TELEVISION WE SEE SKLANSKY, AND SEE THAT HE IS THE CHAP IN THE BATHROBE WHOM BREAN GAVE THE ENVELOPE TO.
levy		There, uh, I'm not aware of the situation to which you refer.
sklansky		Sir:  the heads of the Albanian Desks at C.I.A., and at the National Security agency have been recalled on Special Alert, and there are rumors that the B-2 Bomber...
levy		Mr. Sklansky, Mr. Sklansky, I am I am unaware of any, um, "situation..."  The B-2 Bomber?  The B-2 Bomber...?  There is no B-2 Bomber.  Mrs. Rose...
levy		Uh...Mrs. Rose, there, to the best of my knowledge, there is no...
reporter		Mr. Levy:  is the situation in Albania in any way connected with recent Muslim Fundamentalist, anti- American...
moss		How close are you to this thing?
brean		 What do you want the kid to say?
moss		Have him say, 'I know we're all concerned for the
ames		 Have the kid say I know we're all concerned for the President.  There will he an update on his
levy		 I.  I just want to say I know we're all conceroed for the President, there will be an update on his condition at five forty-five...
moss		Well.  You bought yourself one day.  Maybe two.
brean		String a few together.  All I need's eleven,
moss		How you going to stretch it?  This won't hold for eleven days.  Guy fucked a twelve- year-old...whadday're gonna do to hold that off?
brean		What do you think would hold it off?
moss		Uh, nothing, oh, nothing ... uh... a War, uh...  You're kidding.
moss		I'm a Jew in Show Business.  Why come to me?
brean		I'm gonna tell you why...
brean		Here's the Short Course:  Fifty-Four, Forty or Fight. What does that mean?
moss		Uh, it's a slogan.  From, uh...
brean		Remember the Maine...
moss		That's from the ... it's got to be from the...
brean		Tippecanoe and Tyler, Too!
moss		...uh ... No, that's...
brean		We remember the slogans, we can't even remember the fucking wars.  Y'know why.  Cause it's show business. That's why I'm here.  Naked girl, covered in Napalm. Five marines Raising the Flag, Mount Suribachi. Churchill, V for Victory, Y'remember the Picture, fifty years from now, they'll have forgotten  the war.  Gulf War?  Smart Bomb, falling through the roof.  2500 missions a day, 100 days, One Shot of One Bomb.  The American people bought that war. M'I getting through to you?  War in the Balkans, don't mean nothing, till some G.I. flyer, went down, Eating Snakes for Ten days. N'then It's show business, Mister Moss.  That's why I'm here.
angle		AT THE POOL DESK. THE ATTENDANTS AND THE GUESTS ARE WATCHING THE TELEVISION. ON WHICH WE SEE COMIONTATOR TALKING ABOUT A MAP OF ALBANIA.
brean		It's like being a producer, Mr. Moss.  The Things in Trouble.  Somebody's got to wade in, save the thing. 
moss		Why Albania?
brean		Why not?
moss		Pat? Pat?
moss		...throw this shit out.  Gemme a pot of coffee and a packet of Camels.
moss		But at some point they gotta know.
brean		Who?
moss		The... 
brean		"They Got To Know?"  Stan...?  Get with it.  Who Killed Kennedy...?  I read the first draft of the Warren Report, said he was killed by a Drunk Driver.  You watched the Gulf War.  What did you see?  Day after day, the one "Smart Bomb" falling into a building. The truth, I was in the building when they shot that shot, they shot it in a studio, Falls Church Virginia, 1/10th scale model of a building.
moss		Is that true?
brean		How the fuck do we know.  You take my point?
moss		 ...going to War...
brean		It's not "war."  It is a Pageant.  It's a Pageant... Like the Oscars... why we came to you...
moss		I never won an Oscar.
brean		N'it's a crying shame.  But you staged the Oscars...
moss		Yes.  Indeed I did. 
moss		 Some plaque on the wall...
brean		And if you never won an Oscar, How'd you like an ambassadorship... 
moss		Hell, I'd just do it for the hell of having done it, for a story to tell...
brean		Well, no, well, you couldn't tell any...
moss		Hey, I know that, hey, I'm kidding...  "It's a pageant"
brean		...that's what it is.
brean		It's Miss America, N'you're Bert Parks. 
moss		...Yoha, Yoha... Yoha.  Why Albania?
brean		Because.
moss		They got to have something that we want.
brean		I'm sure they do.
moss		What do we have that they want?
brean		"Freedom."
moss		Why would they want that?
hakan		They're Oppressed.
moss		No, no, no.  Fuck Freedom.  No.  Fuck Freedom. They.... They Want... They Want To Destroy the Godless Satan of the United ... They want to destroy our Way of Life.  Okay, okay, okay, could we ... okay:  the President is in China.  He is dealing with a Dispatch of the B-2 Bomber to Albania.  Why? 
ames		Alright, well, alright:  geopolitically...
moss		We've just found out They Have the Bomb.  We've Just Found Out They Have The Bomb, aaaand... No, No wait a second, no, no, wait a second, No.  The Bomb's not... it's not there -- because they'd have to have a rocket and that shit n'they're a buncha wogs-- it's ... it's a suitcase Bomb.  Ooookay.  It's a suitcase bomb, and it's .... in Canada!  Eh?  Albanian Terrorists have placed a suitcase Bomb in Canada, in an attempt to infiltrate the bomb into the USA.
ames		You know what?  This is good.  This is terrific, and I'll tell you why:  it's cost effective.  This is....
moss		 It's producing.
ames		No, this is great.
moss		I could tell you stories:  Cecil B. Demille:  Alright? The Greatest Show on Earth:  He needs an elephant,
grace		I have the White House on the Line.
moss		...one minute:  Demille needs an elephant for a reshoot.
moss		Okay.  Okay.  The Suitcase Bomb...
grace		...good title for a movie....
ames		..."Terrorism," and an attempt to infiltrate...
moss		...the Suitcase Bomb.  ACT ONE Albania denies it. President comes on the air, "Be Calm."  Okay, now: Good.  Now, Alright.  Act TWO...  I need the following here.  Right now:  Johnnie Green, Liz Butsky, and get me the Fad King.
grace		Isn't Johnny Green in the... 
moss		No, he's back in Nashville.
brean		...who is this guy...?
moss		 Act Two:  and then, Act Two...
brean		We don't need an Act Two.
moss		 We don't need an Act Two?
brean		We've just got to hold their interest for ten more days, till the Election.
moss		...it's a Teaser!
brean		It's a teaser, absolutely right,
ames		 ...they're getting a Good Reaction on the "Albania" thing...
moss		 Listen, King:  Get your fat redneck ass out here, willya...
ames		 ...but the President wonders about the Possible Albanian Backlash...
brean		 You can't have a war without an enemy.
moss		 How long do I need him for?
brean		 We're done in 10 days...
moss		Ten Days.  There going to be any Back End in this thing?
brean		W...what?
moss		...there gonna be any money in this thing?
brean		"Back End" ... count on it.
ames		 ...where is the Back End coming from?
brean		It's like that thing with the Yellow Ribbon...
ames		The thing with the Yellow Ribbon...
brean		The Hostages...?
ames		The hostages, but that was a naturally-occuring...  But where was the, where was the money in that?
brean		In the yellow ribbon.
ames		...the Yellow Ribbon, but who, who'd profit from that...
brean		 The Ribbon Manufacturers.
moss		 King, King, I got a thing here, a product placement, gonna have a bigger back-end than Hattie McDaniel. Now:
brean		I gotta protect the Canadian Horder,
brean		 And tell 'em there's nothing to be alarmed about.
jay leno		 ...went into a Convenience store...
angle		THE GROUP, MOSS, BREAN AND THREE MORE, WATCHING THE TV
jay leno		...asked if they had any girlscout cookies.  Five cops jumped on me, took me off in chains...
conan		Ricky Jay, Ladies and Gentleman, Ricky, I guess we'd have to say that you're the most famous manipulator of small oblects in the World.
ricky jay		No, I'd have to say, that'd be the President.
senator nole		 ...taking refuge behind the fact of distance, taking refuge behind the mention of Albania, of his stomach flu, taking refuge, with the election those scant days away, behind everything except avowal of his guilt. Mr. President, if you have any shame, I ask you, the public asks you, the electorate asks you to return, to face these terrible charges, to...
announcer		...from Airforce One.  In China.  The President of the United States.
president		My fellow Americans.  I apologize for the need for secrecy.  I assure you that had it not been necessary to ensure the safety of our men and women in the Combat Arms.  The Republic of Albania, long a staging ground for terrorists around the World, is in the procesa of mounting ... actions directed against the people of the United States.  In consultation with my advisors, I have elected to take the following precautionary measures:
fad king		It's a, it's a...  It can't be a ribbon...
liz		Why can't it be a ribbon?
fad king		It can't be a ribbon cause AIDS had a ribbon, cause the Yellow Ribbon thing had a ribbon, cause...
moss		Look, look, look, look, Canada, okay...?  Our neighbor to the North, alla sudden, transformed, into That Place, where, like the North Wind, Terror comes...
fad king		Keep Talking....
moss		What guards Us Against Canada...?
ames		 American People, on hearing the President's Speech...
liz		Uh...uh... Mounties.  The Mounties Guard The Border. uh... those Mountie Hats.
fad king		They look stupid.
liz		We had Davy Crockett hats... They made a fortune.
fad king		We had Davy Crockett hats, but you could crush'em ... you could crush'em, see, when you felt stupid. Crush'em, put em in your Pocket.  You can't put a Mountie hat in your...
moss		 Y'see, this is what Producing is:  you put me in a Room...
moss		 King, we've got to be on the streets in...
fad king		...what am I doing?  Do you see me working...?  Here's what you want to do, you want to come out of the box, an item, someone 'ready has, but then you sell it to'em.  Torn jeans, uh ... faded Levi Jackets, uh... uh...
moss		Where are we on the Image?  Grace?  Grace...
angle		OVER A SLEEPING BREAN, STRETCHED OUT ON A POOLCHAIR, GRACE, THE SECRETARY, COMES OUT ON TO THE POOL AREA, HOLDING THE SHOT OF A SMALL, FOREIGN LOOKING CHILD, IN FRONT OF A PILE OF RUBBLE. SHE SHOWS IT TO MOSS.
moss		...we own it?
grace		Public Domain.
moss		And what?  What?  She was Driven From Her Home, by Albanian Terrorists.  It is her we are mobilizing to defend... it is "she"?
grace		We-are-mobilizing-to-defend-her.
moss		Can we give'er a kitten?
grace		No problem.  Here's the...
fad king		I gotta get something, I gotta get ...shoes?  Ties? Hats...? 
brean		...what is this?
moss		Headshots.  Girls to play the girl in our footage. 
fad king		...what is this?
fad king		I go with this here... 
moss		Too Texan.  Go with the stick.  Thanks.  What...? ...does it have to be Albania...We're locked into Albania...why?
johnny green		It's tough to rhyme.
moss		I believe in you....
johnny green		Albania, Albania, Albania, James bond Villains.
moss		John Belushi... Jim Belushi...
johnny green		Jim Belushi...?
moss		Surest thing you know.
fad king		Shoes, Hats....
liz		The special hats of the Special Anti-terrorist detachment of the Border Patrol.
moss		 The Special Anti-Terrorist Detachment of the Border Patrol... what do they do...?
liz		 ...they... you know...
johnny green		They guard our, you know ... "borders," night and day...
moss		Yeah, good good good good good.  And They're So Secret...
liz		Oh huh...
moss		...they have the capacity to Meld into the Woods, and...
moss		 And one of them is in love with the sister of...
liz		I'm just talking about the Hats.
moss		The hats.
liz		A beret.
moss		Why a beret?
liz		Cause you can crush it and put it in your pocket.
moss		"...the special detachment..." Good!  What is it?
brean		Three-o-three...
moss		The men and women of Detachment Three-O-Three, with their...
fad king		Black...
liz		Leopard Skin...
moss		With their berets...
liz		...their Leopard Skin Berets....
fad king		Well, that ain't very butch, is it?
liz		It's a beret...
liz		 ...you said you wanted something they could stuff in their pocket...
fad king		...I meant the Leopard Skin...
liz		British Regiments drape their drums in Leopard Skins.
fad king		Thank God this is America.
moss		 How about half-black, half leopard skin...
moss		 Why are they sticking with this age old horseshit?
brean		 "If One Twinkie is Funny, Two Twinkies are Funnier..."
moss		 Why are they ...
ames		 NY Times, Washington Post, War, War, War.  Times got the girlscout page twelve, Post in Section Two.... Horses in Mid-Stream...?
moss		I don't think you're gonna need it.
ames		Well, we paid for it, we got the guys on a retainer.
moss		They got the guys on a retainer, it's cheaper, pay'em, but don't lettem touch it... Let'em leave us alone.
ames		What can it hurt.
moss		What can it hurt is they offend me.
liz		I need a ruling on the Hats.  I say a Leopard-skin, and...
moss		Hey, you're getting the big bucks....  I think we're up-and-running...
johnny green		 Canada your Peaceful slumbers Guard our Border To The North... The Rightful Order Of Our Border...
fad king		Kid comes to School.  Teacher:  You're late for Geography Class.  Kid:  I din' get my breakfast. Teacher:  siddown, where's the Canadian Border.  Kid: In bed wit My Mom.  That's why I missed my breakfast...
grace		We got the Albanian Girl, with a cat, with a kitten, with a dog...
moss		I didn't ask for a dog.
grace		 ...the pet wrangler suggested it..he's also got a...
ames		I think I should check with the President -- to see what kind of animal he...
grace		The Pet wrangler has also got a...
moss		Do it later...  They're torturing her family, because they have connections in Canada, which would permit the terrorists access to the American Border.
grace		Better.
moss		You like it?
grace		Yes.
moss		Fine.  Good.
brean		 Would somebody wake me in five minutes?
fad king		Does it have to be Albania?  Because, lookit:  I can get my hands on a lot of walking-around-cash, I think, if it's Italy...Look at the tie-in here:  The Boot, "Givvem the Boot,"... If we were to go Wide with a shoe as the fad.  A "Shoe-fad"...  Here's what it offers us...
brean		We're locked into Albania.
fad king		Well, let's not be too sure, why is that?
brean		 The President is going to declare War against Albania in a half an hour.
president		That a state of war has existed, between the United States, and...
moss		Good morning, My name's Stanley Moss, I'll be your director this morning, what I'd like you to do, Miss, what is your name...
albanian type		Trudy Larouche.
moss		..."Trudy," is, to start at that wall...  and, on my signal, "action" to run toward me, screaming ...they taking care of you...?  Good.  You wanna cuppa tea?  Okay.  Can we just try one, just for the...
trudy		I understand this is going to be National?  Is that the case?  Because my agent didn't get a chance to...
moss		Well, it's a little bit of a...
moss		...you have your agent check with the...
trudy		No, I know it's going to be fine.  I'm so excited, and I'm looking forward to putting it on my resume.  When you called last...
brean		Eh, Trudy, could I talk to you for a moment...?  You know, this project is a... "Funny" kind of...
ames		 A schnauzer.  What appears to be a...
pet wrangler		Lhasa Apso.
ames		 Lhasa Apso, and a...
pet wrangler		What you have here is a cross-breed, between a dog which was substantially a...
moss		 Okay.  Here's what we're gonna do.
moss		 I need a little bit of help...?
ames		Miss, we are going to ask you to sign this little sheet of paper...
trudy		Well, my agent would be ril ril miffed with me, if I signed anything, uh, to...
ames		This does not have to do with your Deal.  This is for your Security Clearance. 
director		 ...fix it in the mix.
assistant		We're going to do it digitally...
moss		...can we shoot one?
director		Alright, now we're gonna...
assistant		...run with this...
trudy		...these'r potato chips...
director		Just, uh, just hold the bag when you run.
moss		 We need it for the Arm Position, on the screen it'll be a kitten.
trudy		Someone's bringing in a kitten...?
moss		No, no, no.... we'll punch in a kitten.  Um... Later.
trudy		...you're gonna Punch in a Kitten Later.
moss		Yes. 
trudy		Why...?
moss		It gives us a wider option.
trudy		A wider option of what?
moss		 ...of kittens...
trudy		...but, you know, all kidding aside.  When this goes National.... I get to put it on my resume.
brean		 Actually, no.
trudy		Because, like, what is it, a Guild thing?  I mean, what, what, what could they do to me...
brean		...someone would come to your house and kill you.  Hello... we're about to start shooting...
ames		And...she's not an Illegal Immigrant?  Is she?  Can I see her "chart?"  Because...
moss		Gonna be fine.  Gonna be fine, people?  Are we getting there...?
technician		...gimme some flames...
technician		...some sound of Screaming...?  ...whoo-aahh sirens?  Anne Frank?...
angle		ON AMES AND BREAN, IN THE CONTROL ROOM.
ames		...can we see the Kitten...?
ames		 Hello... Yes.  We'll be back...?
brean		We'll be back tonight.
ames		 Well, you've started a Tempest in a Teapot.
brean		Waal, that's where you want em...
ames		...I just hope...
moss		 Do it again, love, will you...?  We'll tell you before we're going to shoot...
moss		...could she be running across a bridge?  She's running across a Burning Bridge.
technician		 ....beautiful.
moss		 Of course, we're gonna need some water, uh...
technician		Is it a stream, or is it a...
moss		No, I think..
technician		a "pond," or
moss		No, I think it's ... can we see the calico kitten...?
ames		 ...can we have a white one...?
moss		 Can we have a white one, please...
moss		 You know, if we're gonna run with the kitten, maybe it turns out, the Kitten has a Name, and...
director		We ready out there...?
ames		 ...one moment...
president's voice		 That a State of War...
president		 ...exists...
president		...between the United States and Republic of Albania,
angle		BUSINESS PEOPLE QUEUING UP, AT THE TV, BEYOND THEM, THE DEPARTURE GATE, SHOWING A SIGN, AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT _____ TO WASHINGTON D.C. IN THE FOREGROUND, BREAN, ON A CELLPHONE, PAYS NO ATTENTION TO THE SCREEN, AS HE STANDS IN LINE.
brean		 Go with a two-tone hat, I don't care, you work it out. You, well, I'm sure you've had similar problems in the past.  Good.  Good.  Keep me ppp... Fine, I'll call you from the plane.
ticket taker		Hell of a thing.  Hell of a thing.
brean		Innit?
ticket taker		Albanian Terrorists on the Canadian Border.
brean		 ...makes you think.
type one		Ed, what do you think?
type two		Bob, my mind wasn't one hundred percent made up,  but now  it is:  I say:  don't go changing Horses in Midstream...
angle		FROM THE JETWAY THE DOOR ABOUT TO CLOSE, BREAN IN THE B.G. WATCHING THE INFOMERCIAL.  THE TICKET TAKER CALLS TO HIM, "...SIR...?"  BREAN TURNS AND RUSHES TO THE CLOSING DOOR.  ON THE TV, IN THE BG, WE SEE THE LOGO:  "RE-ELECT THE PRESIDENT.  THIS MESSAGE PAID FOR BY..." ET CETERA.
brean		 It's workmanlike, what can I tell you.... no, it ain't going to help, but it won't hurt, cool down, see you in Nashville.
senator nole		The issue of War, is, finally, an issue of Moral Fibre, Moral Fibre.  In my Platoon, in World War Two
liz		...wanted to go with Roman Numerals... but there isn't a Roman Numeral for Zero, so, you can't really do THREE OH THREE, in Roman...
brean		 Why is this putz on the air...
ames		... they're checking the ratings...uh...
liz		...and I wanted to ask you if you thought it made sense that the uniforms of the Freedom fighters were starched.  ...they're torn, and so forth:  days-in-the-mountains, so on, but I thought...
brean		 What am I missing...?  What are we forgetting?
ames		Well, at least we're not seeing the Girlscouts...
angle ins		THE BUTTON READS, "FUCK ALBANIA"
angle		AMES AND BREAN.
ames		 ...is that "us"...?
senator nole		Especially in a time of war.  Now: We said that Moral fibre, not guns, not supplies, not strategy, Moral...
commentator		 ...Senator...?
senator nole		And this man, our President, in what I hope will be his last days in that office, has proved himself empty and devoid of...
angle		TIGHT ON BREAN AND AMES, AND A FELLOW PASSENGER, AS ALL SCAN THEIR NEWSPAPERS. THE PASSENGER IS WAITING IN LINE TO USE A PAY PHONE.
brean		 Can't find anything in here about the President and that girlscout.
passenger		...what are you talking about...  What does that mean now, are you nuts...?
passenger		 Hello, Honey.... NO.  I'm safe.  In about an hour. Have you got Grandma and the kids in...?  Well, where am I talking to you?  Well, who has the Shotgun?  Go Down in the Basement.  Well, get the long cord, and... isn't there a jack down there...  Well, move, the canned goods, and...
ames		 ...hell of a price for the country to pay.
brean		...take a long view.
ames		...what's the Long View?
brean		Your guy gets four more years in Washington...  ...it's only Nine More Days.
ames		Yes.  That's true.  But...
brean		 Wilfred.  We've got work to do...
angle		BREAN, AND ANOTHER PASSENGER.
brean		...what the hell's this all about, d'you think?
passenger		...small price to pay, pal...
leader		...scared.  Sure we're scared.  But th'fella said the trick is not minding that it hurts.  N'Ill tell you one thing:  They might get into the U.S.A., but they'll have to get in over Mrs. Kelly's son... 
commentator		...dead and fifteen wounded in these first hours of the War.  They are not, they are not The Enemy, they are people, like You and Me, a different kind of Victim of Albanian Aggression, but Victims Nonetheless...
angle		BREAN, GIVEN THE TOUR BY AMES.
ames		Telexes to the major...
reporter		Missions into Albanian Airspace.  Missions to Kill or Die.  American Men, and, yes, and women, in the prime of their lives, but never closer to death, while...
announcer		 The sound of Freedom?  Yes, Perhaps the sound of Death... but....
ames		New York Times, Wash Post, Detroit Register, San Diego BEE, all in emission.  No mention of the Girlscout. None.
brean		Eight Days To Go 
ames		I live for midnight, when I can tear another of those suckers off.  Watcha got for me?
brean		Big Bird touches down when?
ames		We're bring'n im in tomorrow, five AM.
brean		Anything at the Airport?
ames		Press thought "no," whaddaya think...?
ames		 Gimme the weather for tomorrow morning, five A.M. Andrews...
brean		 An Albanian, a young Albanian Girl.
ames		No rain.
brean		 A young Albanian Girl, dressed in their...
brean		And carrying.  The National Flower of Albania, something..... Now Is it some Festival?  Some Harvest Festival, something...
ames		 Get on this, right now...
brean		...got to be something.  She gives him the sacred...  And tells him:  this is the Traditional Harvest Offering, given to the Man who Ties the First Sheaf, the last sheaf, whatever the fuck it is...
ames		...this's good...
brean		Stanley Moss, Ladeesngennlmen... And she says...
ames		Is she saying this in Albanian...?
brean		 But because, she explains, that is the only way it can be understood by her Aged and Sainted Mother, who is standing there with her, dressed in her Traditional...
brean		 C'n I get something to eat...?  Now the Old Broad starts to speak:  you are bringing peace.  Not only to This Land...
ames		Our adopted land...
brean		...but to the Old World; you are stilling the forces of hatred and of War which have, since I was a child...
ames		...uh huh...
brean		Now, the Old Lady starts to Weep, Big Bird shrugs off his secret Service, goes to her, and covers her with his own coat.
ames		 Find out is there any chance we can get some rain tomorrow, will you...?
brean		 So forth...
brean		How is Big Bird holding up, by the way?
ames		Catching up on his reading.  Asked about you, sends his thanks.
brean		Knock on wood.
ames		Speaking of thanks... we puttem back in, what does your fellow Moss want?
brean		I dunno.... Ambassador to Togo, somethin', I dunno... he...
ames		Maybe he's just a patriot.
brean		Yeah...what was I talking about...?
ames		How long you been up, you need a nap.
brean		 Due in Nashville.
ames		Nashville...?
brean		We're gonna do the Team Song.
ames		You're tired, Ronnie.
brean		Y'wanna follow the Cattle Drive?  Sleep in the Winter. What does Moss want...?  Matchmaker comes to the Levinsky Family.  Mr. Levinsky, Mrs. Levinsky, would you entertain an offer of marriage for your son Saul, from Princess Margaret of Great Britain.  Well, they think, she isn't Jewish, but she's well to-do, a nice old family.  Alright, yes, they say.  We would consider such an offer.  Wonderful, matchmaker says, My Job is Half Done.  Now, Look:  I got the file, from the L.A. contingent, I got the day-by-day, of how...
announcer		 ...denial from the Albanian Government continues, but this tape, just in...
announcer		...just having heard her family shot.  For the crime of non-cooperation with Albanian Authorities.  Apparently, they had a family connection in Canada, along the US border and refused to exploit it to aid the Terrorists to infiltrate this country.  They paid with their lives.
ames		...this is magnificent.
brean		...Stanley Moss...
ames		8 days and we bring it back home....
angle		ON BREAN AND AMES SITTING AROUND. AMES LOOKS AT HIM INQUISITIVELY.
brean		None of these are ours.  None of em are ours....  ....that's real politik, Buddy.
ames		Waal, I gotta tell you.  I've been inside the Beltway fourteen years, and I feel like I Just Got My Feet Wet.
ames		And if you think about it:  if you think about it, what Is war...?  What is war?  I mean, aside from the killing, and, all... that isn't so pleasant, ... you in the Service...? 
ames		 Turn it on it's head.  If we're ahead in the polls, well, hell, this is the time to capitalize on it.  What do you think?  Get ahead of them, use the percentage points to push forward some of the long-term goals: housing, health-care ref...
yalie		Who might be the Boss Hog in this operation? 
brean		Feel free to talk to me.
yalie		Cheezit-the-Cops.
ames		 Ohmigod...
reporter		...awaiting the arrival of The President back on American Soil.  To still the fears, to answer the questions of this troubled land.  Here, along a border once considered more Imaginary than real, I'm Mike Stears, at latitude 45, along the Canadian Border.
angle		BREAN LOOKS DOWN AT HIS WATCH.
brean		...I just missed my plane.
ames		You missed your plane?  My life is over.  Fourteen years of Public Service...
brean		Well, keep your wits about you, and let's see if we can't...
ames		...fourteen years...
brean		...brazen-it-through...
ames		Brazen it through?  Brazen it through?  They're going to hang us out to dry like the laundry --- do you know what we've ddd...
ames		Do you know what we've done, for Godsake?  Do you know what you've....
bodyguard		No talking, please.
reporter		With seven days to go before the election, the Fortunes of President...
yalie		Found'em as quick as we could, sir.
yalie		Legal department says You Pick Em.  Depends on how big of a splash you want to make, how long you want them to Go Away for.
ames		 Oh, MiGod.
ames		I'd like to mention a few names, who...
ames		I was acting as a Private Citizen.  Nothing that I've done should be construed as reflecting on the orders or intentions of anyone with whom you may have reason to believe I am connected with.  Or in whose employ...
ames		And I take this opportunity to suggest that, equally, I admit to nothing, and that I would like my lawyer present.
brean		 Course there's a war.  I'm watching it on Television.
brean		My name is Ronald Brean.
brean		Nobody whose name you want me to say, Mr. Young, I promise you.
brean		S'only got to hold for another few days.
brean		What are you interested in? 
ames		As are we all, and I'd like to take this opportunity to suggest that the Security of the country would be ill- served by any, any...any...
ames		 Any untoward "revelation" regarding, uh...
brean		 Well, I'm sure that speaks very well of you and for your parents.  But if forced to choose between the security of the country and the security of your Job, which would you pick.  And, while you hesitate, permit me to suggest that they are one and the same.  Your country and your job.
ames		And I'd like to point out that I've been on prescription medication, the side-effects of which...
brean		I'm doing my job, Too.  Would you give me a... do you think you could call off your Dogs for a minute.
brean		 Thank you.
brean		I have a question for you.
brean		Why do people go to war?
brean		Why do they go to War?
brean		Would you go to War to do that? 
brean		Well, I have, too.  Would you do it again...?  In't that why you're here?  I guess so.  N'if you go to war again, who is it going to be against?  Your "ability to fight a Two-ocean War" against who?  Sweden and Togo? Who you sitting here to Go To War Against?  That time has passed.  It's passed.  It's over.  The War of the Future is Nuclear Terrorism.  It is and it will be against a Small Group of Dissidents who, unbeknownst, perhaps, to their own governments, have blah blah blah. And to go to that war, you've got to be prepared.  You have to be alert, and the public has to be alert. Cause that is the war of the future, and if you're not gearing up, to fight that war, eventually the axe will fall.  N'you're gonna be out in the street. 
brean		 It's just for eight more days.....
brean		 One more thing, what is that river she's running across?
yalie		What?
brean		...the young girl in the video, the Albanian Girl....
brean		...she's running, it's some sacred... some ancestral land, cloven by the Brook named.... give it to Moss,
young		No, we're on top of it.
brean		Thank you.
young		No, thank you...
brean		 I should be in Nashville, tell him I'm coming in.
brean		 Nice enogh people... they just hadn't thought it through...
ames		 I've got to hand it to you.  They sure let us out of there easy....
brean		 ...they just hadn't thought it through...
radio		 Midst repeated denial from the Albanian Government. While, at the White House, a sense of Stillness pervades, awaiting the return of...
angle		THE JEEP, AS BREAN SETTLES HIMSELF IN HE TURNS TO LOOK AT THE CHAOS IN THE PARKING LOT.
cowboy		It ain't hoarding.  It's stockpiling.
brean		Uh huh.
cowboy		Only common sense.
moss		 We got the guy, we got the guy, we got the Guy!
fad king		The Canada Thing was a shuck.  A shuck -- wasted a day. What can you do with Canada?  Bears, mapleleafs, "sugar -on-Snow."  Lays there on the plate like a lox.
angle		AMES ON THE PHONE IN THE JEEP.
ames		Yes... Hello...?  What...?  What...?  We're breaking up, I'll call you from the studio.
brean		 Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, get this typed, get somebody to send it to the White House...
moss		What is it?
brean		President's speech.
moss		At the Airport?  Cause we decided at the Airport he hugs the fat, wet Albanian Broad, we...
brean		No, no, no, no, no after the airport.
ames		 Oh, shit...
nole		...gotten word that the situation in Albania is resolved.  That it is resolved.  My military sources confirm that our troops, along the Canadian Border, And overseas are standing down, and I must take this opportunity to call upon our President to stand and face the charges, the heinous charges brought against him.  You know, folks, there is nothing in life as precious as the Innocence of a Child.  Nothing.  Now, I do not say these charges are true, I do not see how they could be.  Accusations of, of sexual misconduct in anyone, must be investigated.  In the case of a Sitting President, of one whose term, and I do not hesitate to mention it, ends, in, effectively, in a matter of days... I call upon the President...
ames		What does he mean The Situation has Been Resolved?
brean		He just got Hip to us.  He just ended the War.
ames		What are we gonna do about it...?
group		We guard the Northern Borders. We live the Northern Liiiiifffe... We come to restore Order... For our Children and our Wiiiiiiiffee...
brean		 Tell'em to knock it off.
ames		What are we going to do?
brean		 The War is Over.
moss		What?
brean		The War is Over.  Senator Nole just ended the War.
ames		Oh, God...
brean		Yep.  Well, we started it, he Ended it...
television reporter		...and the C.I.A. Confirms the cessation of Hostilities, with...
brean		The C.I.A.
ames		Oh, Lord....
brean		...those limp-dick ... turncoat... I thought they let us out of there too easy.....
moss		The War ain't over. 
brean		I saw it on TV.
moss		The war ain't over til I say it's over.  This is my picture.  You think you're in a spot?  You think this is a tight spot?  Try making the Hunchback of Notre Dame when your three lead actors die, two weeks from the end of Principal Photography.  This is... this is... this is just...  Act One:  THE WAR. Act Two ... the... uh...
fad king		It's like those Japanese in the Caves on Okinawa... didn't believe the War was Over.
moss		You got a guy, doesn't believe the War is... NO NO NO. An American Serviceman... A brave American Serviceman, is Left Behind ... 
brean		Hello...?
fad king		Yeah, I need a list, people in Military Special Pro...
moss		...what do you got?
fad king		 Military Special Programs... Programs... No, I am not Shouting at you, I'm... I'm sorry.  Anyone named Shoe Schumann?  Schuster... uh
johnny green		I got it!
singer		"I guard the Northern Borders..." Okay, y'want to roll on another one...?
johnny green		Naaa.  Fuck that.  Fuck that...
engineer		...go get a Coke.  Y'want something to eat...?
singer		We gonna be long, cause I told my wife...
singer		 I'm sorry, Barry, the action on this... where the hell did you get this old thing?
engineer		 ...found it in a pawnshop.  Three bucks.
moss		Don't tune it too good.
engineer		Leave it flat, will you, Ben?
engineer		Do another?
singer		Let's do it.
engineer		 Good Old Shoe...
moss		 William Schuman.  Old Shoe.  U.S. Army.  Serial number,
engineer		Take ten.
singer		He's the Runt of the Litter Waal that's true N'I found him jest hiding in an Old Work Shoe N'he got into mischief, as a Pup will do. But I never had a better than my Good Old Shoe. Waal, we's out jest a-huntin, on a Cold Fall Day, and it seems like that Possum 'bout to Get Away...
moss		It's too clean.
engineer		Hold it a minute, Benny, willya?
moss		It's too clean.
engineer		Let's take the bridge from nine, and the intro from one, and...
engineer		Hold it a minute, Benny, we're going to tweak it a bit.  This may take a while.
brean		 This is fantastic.
johnny green		Y'like it?  Wait'll you get to the bridge...
brean		This's Fantastic...
johnny green		 Don't go with the bridge from nine, go with the bridge from eight.
engineer		Why eight?
johnny green		Just try it.
ames		A new take on the...  Well, sir, we're coming back, we'd like you to try it out, this evening...
moss		Listen to what I've ... listen to... does anybody know Morse Code?
brean		What're you gonna do with Morse Code?
moss		 ...we put your Guy in a sweater...
brean		Yeah...?
moss		"Good Old Shoe -- "  We put him in a sweater.
reporter		 ...trying too... it seems that she is speaking in... is is Albanian ... Is it Albanian?  Can we get someone on...
translator		 I bring you this traditional Albanian, forgive me not to speak English, but my Grandmother...
translator		God bless you, God bless you, you are my Son... you are a Bringer of Peace...
angle		WIDER, ON THE GROUP AT THE TV, ALL SHAKING THEIR HEADS SADLY.  AN AIDE HANDS THE PHONE TO MOSS, WHO GIVES IT TO BREAN.
brean		Hello?
cain		...getting the speech for the White House...?  Good.  Good.  Because he's....
brean		He can't respond to the Allegations.  I don't care how many girlscouts are picketing the ... look, look, look, we're coming home with Gold.  Eh? Tell him to hold firm for two hours... coming home with Gold.
moss		 Did we ever use those costumes for the Border Patrol? Those guys in the Leopard-Skin Hats?  Here's my idea....
brean		 I'll hold.
ames		...this is a snappy song....
moss		What'd ya think?
brean		I think it's fine?
moss		It's not too clean...
brean		No, it's...  No, it's ...
announcer		Have identified the bridge, and the river from that tape.  It is a bridge over the river __________, ... what is it, Mayra, a "rhyme...?"
mayra		Actually, Bess, it's an ode, an ancient Albanian ode, praising the river, this particular river, the ________, as a source of peace.  It is ironic that....
brean		 Hello --
brean		 Look: I'm bringing in a tape, I need it copied AT ONCE onto an old acetate, and stuck in the Library of Congress.  Gotta Happen Today.
moss		In the Folk Music Section.
brean		In the Folk Music Section.  We'll be in in...
mayra		Ironic Bess, that while Peace is At Hand, the spectre of disgrace, unrest haunts the President, who, scant days from the Election...
brean		...this the Guy.
moss		Oh, he's gonna be Aces.
brean		Where is he now?
moss		 Some, military... Special Program, Oklahoma somewhere...
brean		...we get our hands on him?
moss		They got him standing by.
brean		What's the thing with Morse Code...
moss		Oh, you're gonna love this:
brean		Who said, "I care not who writes a country's laws, so long as I can write its songs..."?  Stanley Moss, folks...
moss		Hey, hey, I'm just the Producer, I'm just the Stationmaster, Johnny Green wrote that song, and...
ames		All we have to do now is sell it to the President.
brean		No, I'm telling you, this guy, this guy is aces, this guy is the Kitty's Sleepwear, this guy, they should of given him every Oscar.  Every Oscar.  This is the...
brean		 Well, this is genius.  Who did this?
moss		My prop guy, had a guy out here.
brean		 Who's seeing the guy at C.B.S.?
brean		Tonight, you remember some song, from your folksong days, something about a Good Old Shoe...
aide		...tonight...
brean		You're with him tonight, watching the President's Speech, when the President...
aide		What if he's busy tonight?
brean		Lure him. 
aide		What are you saying...
brean		Well, darlin' I ain't your confessor.  Tell him you've got some info on the President's sex scandal, it's on your conscience, believe me, he'll drop what he's doing.  Okay;  Now:  Folks, folks, folks, this is a shitty business, and it needs no Ghost Come From the Grave to tell us that.  But in Six Days, Lord willing n'Jesus Tarries, I am going to take you beauties into the second term. .....wait til you hear the speech tonight.  The 3-0-3 Speech... where's the Fad King, by the way...
aide		 ...on the way in.
brean		When you...  What?  I'm busy.
aide		It's the White House.
brean		Hello.  What?
moss		What?
brean		What do you mean he won't do it? 
angle		AT THE TV, MOSS IS WATCHING THE TELEVISION WHICH IS SHOWING THE "CHANGE HORSES CAMPAIGN."  WE SEE TWO KIDS WITH SOAPBOX RACERS.
kid one		 ...change it, but I said to my dad, "You Don't Change Horses in the Mid..."
moss		 Can you believe this shit?
general		Yes.  Thank God, I say.  Thank God for the B-2 Bomber. Thank God for it, for it is not an engine of War, but an engine of Deterrence, as we've seen, and were it not for that deterrence, who is to say, but that American blood, would, even now...
policeman		 I was in the Vietnam Conflict, and I want to tell you that a man who could do what the President did -- I respect him.  But, on this issue....
angle		AT THE DRIVETHROUGH PORTICO, AMES WAITING, WE SEE THE VAN, ON WHICH SOMEONE HAS SPRAYPAINTED "FUCK ALBANIA."
moss		 Gimme thirty secretaries...
moss		I need the President.  Five minutes of his time. Eh? Five... "the speech is corny"...??  You know, this is what they used to say when I went out to Hollywood.  "It's too theatrical"... I came from the Theatre, and, anything, over their heads, "It's too Theatric..."
ames		He thinks it's too...
brean		First of all, we're locked in to it, secondly:
moss		Don't tell me that the speech is too corny.  Your guy got caught with his hand in the cookie Jar.  I came to Save him.  I don't need this gig, I don't need the money, I don't need the tsuris ... I don't need it.  He needs the gig.  Y'r gonna go to the goddamn Doctor an exam, What've I got?  He tells you you've got Cancer, you tell him, "That's Old Hat, gimme something else"...?
ames		Mr. President, this is St...
moss		Hi, How are ya?  Listen to this, willya...
moss		 I'm going to call your attention to something...I don't know how many of you know Morse Code...
angle		BREAN, AND AMES, IN THE CORRIDOR.  PACING.  PAUSE.
ames		You need this Schumann fellow?
brean		Ronnie says we don't need'em for another four days.  ...s'there a problem?
ames		No.  No...Pentagon says, Army's got'em, they got'm in ..."Custody"... 
brean		How's your wife?
ames		Fine. 
moss		"The Speech Won't Work..."
moss		...and see if you can keep your dick in your pants two more weeks, willya...?  "...speech won't work..."
president		Thank you, would you be seated, please.  Ladies and Gentlemen... I thank.  A merciful God.  And I am sure each and every one of us will thank that Supreme Power, whatever we conceive that power to be -- that peace is at hand.
angle		THE PRESIDENT, CONTINUIN TO SPEAK.
president		The threat of Nuc1ear Terrorism has been quelled.  We are in contaot with the Albanian Premier, who assures me, and this government credits his assurances, that his country does not wish us ill, and has not.  That the threat which we perceived was not of his wish, or of his making.
angle		CAIN, MOUTHING ALONG, WITH THE SPEECH, SHE LOOKS DOWN, AND WE SEE WRITTEN, ON HER COPY. of his making 
angle		AS WE LOOK UP, WE SEE THE PRESIDENT BITING HIS LIP, AND CONTINUING WITH THE SPEECH.
president		From whence did it come?  Our information states it came from a small group of armed, dissidents.  Of Armed and Violent Dissidents...
angle		ON CAIN, AS SHE LOOKS AROUND.
angle		CAIN, AS SHE SMILES TO HERSELF.
angle		ON THE PRESIDENT.  AS HE CONTINUES.
angle		CAIN LOOKS DOWN AT HER SCRIPT.  SHRUGS, AND LOOKS UP.
angle		ON THE PRESSCORP, THE REPORTERS, LISTENING WIDEMOUTHED, TO THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
president		It falls to me to reveal to you a secret.  To reveal the existence of a secret group of warriors. Men, yes, and women, trained and pledged their strength, their skills, and, if called upon, their lives, in the service of their fellow Americans. A group so secret, its very existence has been known to just a few, and known not by a Name, but by a Designation Number, Three-Oh-Three...
liz		...anybcdy know Latin.
angle		ON LIZ, AS SHE WALKS THROUGH THE H.Q., ON A BOARD WE SEE "DAYS TILL ELECTION 6" AND % IN FAVOR 82%.  A HUGE TV SHOWS THE PRESIDENT.
president		And I can only say, to those family members, of group 303, which members are, I know, as I speak, gathering to comfort you, the parents of the missing man, I can only say,
liz		I need a Latin Motto, anybody know n'y Latin...?
president		....and the Albanian Government joins with me, that no, I repeat, No effort will be apared, to find...
president		 ...this brave man and to bring him home.
moss		Trump that, Senator Nole, you Howdy Doody vontz.
brean		Not bad for government work.  Having a good time.
moss		Haven't had so much fun since Live TV.
president		 Here's a photograph.  It is a photograph of a man. His name is William Schumann.  He is a Master Sergeant in the United States Army.  A member of the Squad 303....dropped behind Albanian Lines.  We've just received this photograph, of Schumann in Captivity. Held by a dissident group of Albanian Terrorists...Now, I don't know how many of you are familiar with the Morse Code...but...could you bring the camera closer in here, please...?
angle		THE PRESIDENT, HOLDING THE PHOTOGRAPH
president		Dashes and Dots.  And those dots spell out a message in the Morse Code. And that message is, "Courage, Mom..."  I'm told his unit mates gave him the nickname, "Old Shoe."  Ladies and Gentleman, we will not treat him like an Old Shoe, we...
moss		Trump that, Senator Nole, you Howdy-Doody-looking Vontz.
angle		YOUNG PERSON'S APARTMENT, NIGHT.
president		 ...we will not be swayed, will, will not be swayed from Every effort to find our Old Shoe, our...
young woman		 Hey...?
angle		ON THE YOUNG MAN, AS HE TURNS.  WE SEE, BEHIND HIM, AN UNMADE BED, AND A YOUNG WOMAN, THE AIDE FROM THE SHOESTORE H.Q., WRAPPED IN A SHEET.
aide		...wasn't there a folksong called "Old Shoe?"  Wasn't there an old, uh ..."folksong"...
moss		It's all, you know ... thinking ahead.  Thinking Ahead.  That's what producing is.  It's like being a piumber.
brean		Mmm...
moss		You do your job right, nobody should notice.
brean		Mmm.
moss		S'only when you fuck up, everything gets full of shit.  Do you think we could line him up for the Peace Prize?
brean		Hey, our job ends at the Finish Line.
moss		Yes, but I, well, you know...
brean		Just for the Symmetry of the thing...?
moss		...that's right.
brean		If they can give Kissenger the Peace Prize, I wouldn't be surprised to wake up and find I'd won the Preakness.
moss		Well, yes, but the guy did bring Peace.
brean		Yes, but there wasn't a War.
moss		All the greater accomplishment.
announcer		"Volo," meaning, "I will."  As the President bends all his will, to find, and to restore to his country, to his family, and to what are his mounting legion of friends, William Schumann, the Commando Ranger of detacment 3.0.3. -- Sgt. William Schumann...the Old Shoe.
brean		 Stop there..
brean		Ya got to hand it to the Fad King.
moss		No, he's my Hero.
kid		...these Shoes are ratty...
brean		Yeah, well, that's why we're flinging them away...
angle		RICH NEIGHBORHOOD.  SUBURBS NIGHT. WEALTHY LOOKING WHITE GUY OUT WAKING HIS DOG.  LIMO COMES UP BEHIND HIM. BREAN GETS OUT OF HIS CAR AND TAKES A CARDBOARD BOX OUT, AFTER HIM.  HE RUMMAGES THROUGH THE BOX.  FINDS A PAIR OF RATTY "SPERRY TOPSIDER," AND FLINGS THEM UP INTO THE TREE.
man		...there was a fellow in a limousine, outside, throwing...
radio		 ..."Dog Was Loyal, and the Dog was True...n'there's never been a better than my Good Old Shoe...Good Old Shoe...Good Old Shoe...Never have ta call'im when there's Work to do...If I get to Heaven when the Day is Through.  I'll know I'll see him waitin', Jest a Good Old Shoe..."
jim belushi		...and there's just one thing I'd like to say, and I am speaking to those in Albania who have the man in custody, and from the bottom of my heart:
angle		ONE WORKER, WITH A T-SHIRT READING, "COURAGE, MOM," AND A PHOTO OF SCHUMANN, CHECKS HER WATCH, AND SWITCHES THE CHANNEL TO A NEWSCAST.
angle		ANOTHER SMALL GROUP OF WORKERS, SEVERAL WEARING, "FUCK ALBANIA" T-5HIRTS.  ONE
aide		...White House wants to know about the Congressional Medal of Honor.
brean		What about it?
aide		For Schumann.
brean		Well, well, well, well, wait a minute, we got 86 percent.  We bring'em back tomorrow, the charts go up, they don't go down...
brean		I don't wanna tell them their business, but why not wait to give it to him after the election.  When he's gonna need some help....
brean		King...
fad king		All part of the Service we Render.
moss		 He ain't seen nothin' yet.
fad king		When do you bring'em back?  Schumann.
brean		 Schumann. We're gonna go pick him up tonight.
fad king		Where is he?
brean		Out in Oklahoma.
moss		Going to make a little stop back home, pick up my shirts, show him a little treat.
fad king		See y'at the Finish Line.
moss		Tell'em to fly the Inaugural Speech past me.
brean		Inaugural Speech, press corp's gonna be jealous of giving up that one...
moss		Hey, lemme close out the thing in style.
moss		I've come to feel It's my thing.  You know, you take a job... You take a job, and, many times, it's just a job.  And then...
brean		Hell of a Ride, Stanley...
moss		...isn't it?  Hey, what-the-hey ... it's all part of the bittersweet...
angle		BREAN, MOSS, AND AMES, IN A SKYHOX, WATCHING THE SPECTACLE. BREAN SHAKES HIS HEAD IN SATISFACTION.
moss		No business like it.
angle		MOSS AND BREAN LOOKING OUT OF THE WINDOW.
cowhoy		 Rode the fifteen miles from the Bottomland, n'I was a- gonna switch him for a fresher one to do the Ropin'...
announcer		Don't switch Horses.  Vote.  And vote for the man who brought peace to...
moss		Fucking amateurs.  Pity of it is, two more days, we bring it all back home...
brkan		...knock wood...
moss		And who's gonna know?  Who's gonna know...?
brean		 Pride of a job-well-done...
ames		It's the Pride of a Job Well Done, Stanley, yes, but it's more than that.
moss		 ...mmm?
ames		It's the gratitude of your party, and of your President...
moss		Izzat the thing...
ames		Indeed it is.
brean		 Army Special Programs -- tell'em to bring Schumann to the plane, n we'll bring him back, stash him the Hospital...Call the plane....tell me where to pick'm up.
moss		I'll bet you're good at Chess.
brean		I would be, I could remember how all the pieces move...
ames		 We getting some.... hello?  Some interference...?
ames		 Well, you... hello?  You can find the info on him in the Army Special... Hello?  The Army Special Programs.
brean		 Nine?  Miss the commuters, but...
moss		...we'll gettim in their cars.
brean		 President wants to reveal Scbumann before the election.
moss		Big mistake.
brean		 Hell, yes, we're, we're on our way to get him now.  No. Lookit:  it's like a girl with her virginity, y'understand...
brean		 Labor, five bucks an hour.  If you watch, ten bucks an hour.  If you help ... if you help, a hundred bucks an hour.
moss		Hey, lcokit:  any business...
brean		Ain't that the truth. 
moss		Whattaya gonna do when this is all over?
brean		What am I gonna do?  I'm gonna "Fade Away."  What are you gonna do?
moss		 You know what the worst word is, in the English Language?  It's retirement."  What the hell was I thinking of?  Hell, I used to...
willie nelson		"What have you got at the end of the day?  How do you keep those fears at bay?  What do you say, when there's nothin' to say?  Courage, Mom..." 
angle		MOSS AND BREAN.
brean		We pick up Schumann.  Sneak him back inside the Beltway. And we plan his homecoming.  Zt's gone be Neil Armstrong, Dr. Livingston, and Lindy...They're gonna forget, they're gonna forget, they're gonna forget that there is an election...The Pres's gonna have to say, one of his speeches, "Don't forget to Vote..."
moss		I got it in the inaugural.  "Thank you for voting for me, but, as importantly:  Thank you for voting... 
brean		 Gonna go...
moss		Might, if I was asked... 
angle		INT THE PLANE.  AS THE TWO UNBUCKLE, AND STRETCH.
moss		But, you know, this is the meeting, Ron?  You think about it.  This is the meeting.  This, here.  Schumann and us.  King Kong and the Trainers...this's it... What are you working on?
angle		ON BREAN, WHO IS DOODLING.
brean		Medal.  Medal and Ribbon.
moss		Of what?
brean		The Albanian Campaign.
moss		 ...the Albanian Campaign.  This... this is history...
ames		...The Albanian Campaign...
moss		...like the sound of it, eh...
ames		We've got to put that, into the Inaugural.  "I have here, a ribbon.  You haven't seen it before, and you will not see it too often now.  For it is the Proud Possession of a few, a very few Men and Women... it is the Ribbon of the Albanian Campaign...."
moss		Wilfred, that's not bad.
brean		That's not bad at all.
ames		Well, you know, "The Whole Thing's Theatre..."
brean		Napoleon said, fellow won't sell you his life, but he will trade it to you for a little piece of ribbon.
moss		...the Albanian Campaign.  And we won't even be a footnote...
brean		We were the Albanian campaign, John -- We Were There.
pilot		Gentlemen, little problematical weather.
brean		Well, c'n we get him back home?
pilot		Could if we had to.  Rather not.  Rough weather.
moss		Well, they're protecting him well enough.
brean		They should be.  Most valuable animal since Sea Biscuit.  Isn't he...
moss		Bigger than that.  For want of a nail a Kingdom was lost...
brean		You've got something, there...
ames		 Napoleon said -- A man will not sell you his life...
angle		MOSS AND BREAN.
brean		...a masterpiece...
moss		 ...givem what they want...But...
pilot		Weather's worsening, sir...might be advisable, wait it out, on the ground, till..
pilot		Well, I wouldn't go up in it, lest I had to...
moss		 Here he comes...
moss		Sergeant Schumann?  If I may?  Welcome to History...
ames		Sergeant Schumann?  My name is Ames.  Welcome.
officer		S'mby named Brean?  Sign here...
brean		 Captain...  You wanna Take'er up...?
pilot		Heavy weather East of here.
brean		Whaddaya think?
pilot		Six to five and pick'em...you wanna chance it...
newscaster		 Word that William Schumann, the Old Shoe, is expected back, today, and that a glimpse of him...
moss		Let's fly, if it'll fly... People waiting for us...
brean		 breaks through the ranks, runs to "old shoe" -- should we have flower or a bear...?
ames		Uh...Didn't we do this?
brean		Never quit a winner.
moss		I thought they weren't meeting him at the airport...
brean		They insist they wanna go with meeting him at the airport.  I told'em they're wrong, I can't convince'em. They're concerned that the last kid had the Wheat. Variations include, the kid is a boy, the kid is twins, it's a little dog ... they rub meat on Schumann's cuff, the dog runs to him...
moss		 Uh...
ames		 What's this...?
officer		 Key to the manacles...
angle		EXT THE PLANE, THE OFFICER RETREATING, IN THE RAIN, TO THE TRUCK, AMES, RUNNING AFTER HIM.
ames		Wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait wait...  What did he...what...what's the trouble?
officer		No trouble at all.
ames		What did he do...?
angle		INT, THE PLANE, BREAN, LOOKING AT SCHUMANN.  HOLD.  MOSS ENTERS THE PLANE.
angle		ON MOSS, AS HE MOVES TO HIS BRIEFCASE, AND EXTRACTS THE TELEPHONE-LIKE BOOK, HE TURNS TO THE FRONT PAGE, AND WE SEE THE TITLE IS "MILITARY SPECIAL PRISONS."
angle		MOSS AND BREAN.  MOSS HANDS BREAN THE BOOK.  BREAN LOOKS.  TURNS TO MOSS.  AND THEN TO SCHUMANN.
brean		...how ya doing?
schumann		Fine.
moss		I think we asked for "special programs" and they gave us "special prisons."
brean		Yeah, well -- it's only one word difference.
ames		 He, uh, has he been in the "jail" long?
moss		...twelve years.
ames		Much more...uh, he have much more time to "serve?"
moss		He raped a nun. 
ames		Yeeaahhh...  Ohmigod ... ohmigod... ohmigod...
moss		 ...and...
ames		And?  NO.  I don't wanna know.  What do you mean "and..."?
moss		 He's fine, as long as he has his medication.
ames		What happens if he doesn't have his medication?
moss		He's not fine.
brean		Yeah, Captain, uh, yeah, Captain, uh, y'better get us back to Washington.
brean		How are'ya...
angle		THE PLANE, IN A VIOLENT RAINSTORM, BUCKING WILDLY.  AMES, ON HIS KNEES, GATHERING UP THE PILLS, REPLACES THEM IN THE VIAL, SHAKES OUT TWO, AND GIVES THEM TO SCHUMANN.  WHO TAKES THEM.  MOSS THEN STRAPS HIMSELF BACK IN AND BREAN CONTINUES TALKING ON THE TELEPHONE.
schumann		You gonna git me back tomorrow?  Cause they havin beans tomorrow...
brean		 A slight, a slight, well, no, we're gonna deal with it, we just, I need a little readjustment...we need to rethink...
moss		Yes, William, Uh, we have this thing we're doing...
schumann		Long's you git me back for the beans...
moss		...for the beans, yes...
brean		 We're gonna, just, may have to call off the...
ames		Oh Lord.  What have you done to me?  What have you done to me...?
brean		Wilfred.
ames		...what have you done to me...
brean		All Combat takes place at night, in the Rain, and at the Junction of four Map Segments...
ames		...what are we going to do...?
moss		He's fine, as long as he gets his medication.
brean		Speaking of that...  We're gonna need a whole lot more of this....
ames		Well, get on the phone, and get it...
moss		You know, I think you people are looking at this All Wrong.  If you look at the backstory -- the guy's coming back from Combat and Torture.  Of course he is gonna be ... uh ... uh ... "fucked up".  Of Course he's gonna "need a little help"... 
ames		 Oh, Lord....
president		...a proclamation of a Day of National Rejoining...
schumann		N'ybody gotta Beer...?
brean		 Just....do what I ...look:  get me a ...hello...? Hel...?  I'm going to need an ambulance, we take him, the last moment, right from the Pl...no, we land, we puttem in the ambulance.  Air force jet lands, we take somebody else off that jet...what the fuck do I care? Somebody in a Hospital gown.  And we need a ......hello?  Hello...?
brean		Cause I don't think this dog is gonna hunt....
moss		He's going to be fine, aren't you boy...?
brean		Yeah, well, perhaps...  Speaking of which:  I have a prescription here, I'm going to give you the number, I need you standing by with a crate of the stuff.... it's ... what is it?
moss		An anti-psychotic...
brean		 It's an anti-psychotic, the num...  the number...hello...hello...
schumann		Long's I git back for my Beans.
moss		This is nothing,  Wait'll you've worked with a movie star, one time, this is nothing, we keep him shot-up and happy -- the Old Days, I used to think I was a pharmacist, the kind of stuff I had to do.  One time...
schumann		Cause the beans, y'know, y'can tell if they're puttin stuff in it.
brean		Uh huh...
schumann		So you don't have to fear it.
brean		Uh huh...
moss		Mmm.
brean		What kind of stuff?  Hello...?
schumann		 What do you mean, "What kind of stuff?"
ames		No, no, he didn't mean anything at all...
brean		 Give'em another pill...
ames		No.  No.  He didn't mean anything by it at all...
brean		 Hello?   No, operator...
schumann		What the fuck did you mean, "What kind of stuff?"?
moss		 ...this is nothing.  This is nothing. D'you ever shoot in Italy?  Try three Italian starlets on Benzedrine, this is a walk in the park...
ames		We're just, actually, we're friends of... can we get another pill into him...
schumann		Where are you taking me...?
brean		 Hello...?
ames		 Oh, Heck.
angle		A BEATEN-UP BREAN STRUGGLES FROM THE PLANE, FINISHING A BOTTLE OF SCOTCH, HE FLINGS IT FROM HIM, REACHES IN HIS BACK POCKET, OPENS ANOTHER, AND, AS HE DOES SO, HE SINGS DRUNKENLY.
brean		"Hush little baby, don't say a Word...Pappa's gonna buy you a Mockingbird, if that Mocking bird don't sing, Poppa's gonna buy you a diamond ring..."
brean		...kid complains, kid cries, gets more junk, junk don't work, kid cries, gets more junk.  End of the song, house full of worthless junk, the kid's still crying. Story of America... 
moss		...what happened...?
brean		I think we were experiencing a Little Technical Difficulty.
moss		How's our friend?
moss		..."Courage.  Mom"...
brean		News.  Like a Wedding Cake.  Tons and tons of sticky sugar, Barbie and Ken on top...  Can't ya Talk, you sonofabitches...?
moss		What the hell do we care?
brean		Eh?  I'm like the Rest of America.  I don't care -- I'm just addicted to it...
brean		 N'just when everything was going so well...
angle		THE CROWDS AT ANDREW'S AIRKORCE BASE, THE "OLD SHOE" BANNERS, THE "COURAGE, MOM," BANNERS.  THE STILL BAND.  A SHOT OF THE BANDMASTER, SURREPTITIOUSLY, GLANCING AT HIS WATCH.
moss		How's our friend?  What is he, "dead?"
brean		Wake up.
moss		Is he dead?
ames		Is he dead?  Is he dead?  ARE YOU DEAD?  WAKE UP.  You stupid, nun- raping sonofoabitch.... wake up...  WAKE UP.  Do you want to spend the rest of your life in JAIL?  WAKE UP! Do You Know Who I AM???  I'm talking to you...
schumann		Z'it time for Exercise?  Cause it's my Day on the Yard.
brean		Courage, Mom.
ames		Oh.  Hell.  And what do we do now?  What do we do now? Boy Producer?  Mister Win-an-Emmy, Social Conscience, Whaleshit, save- the-rainforest, Liberal hire-a-convict shithead? Mister Affirmative-Action Peacnik.  Commie... shithead....?
moss		 This is nothing. ...piece of cake.  Y'know, producing is being a Samurai Warrior.  They pay you, day in, day out, for Years, so that, ONE DAY, when called upon, you can respond, your training At Its Peak, and save the day.
angle		BREAN, SHAKING HIS HEAD.  IN THE B.G., MOSS, DRINKING. THE TV COMES TO LIFE.
commentator		...long overdue, its absence unexplained.
nole		...this...regrettable absence... this ...tardy absence of the flight.  Must give us pause.  And, in that pause we should take time to examine ourselves, our plans, and our future.  There has been an ...interregnum -- if you will, of reason, while we've watched unfold this drama..... on the world scale...
ames		 ...I hate this cocksucker...
nole		And, now, end how it will, this drama is done...
moss		No, I didn't think so.
brean		 Leav't alone.  Wha'd television ever do to you?  Ate your life, ruin'd your Culture, but...
ames		IT DESTROYED THE ELECTORAL PROCESS.
moss		Come on.
ames		...where?
moss		Come on.
brean		Y'know what else bothers me?  "Shh lil baby, don' saya word, papa's gon buy you a mocking bird..."  You follow me...?
moss		Get on your feet, boy.
brean		Uh huh...why?
moss		We're going home.  We're going home together...
brean		We have no home.  We're vagrants.  N'each man's hand's against us.  We killed Old Shoe...  We killed the Schuster...spend our life in a packingcrate...Where are you going...?
moss		Come on, Pal, come on Willie, come on, Old Shoe...
schumann		Just want to take a nap.
moss		He's not dead, Ronnie.  He's just a little understandab1y, fatigued.  Let's get him to some help...
schumann		...gimme some help...
moss		That's right, we'll take a nap.  We'll get you to Washington, we'll get you Back to your Buddies, and...
schumann		...just want to Get Back to the Beans...
moss		Come on, you fucking sissy, you think this is tough? Try show-business.  1970-1990, n'ybody I worked with, y'could of bottled their piss n'sold it in the ghettos...  Come on, Pal...
brean		I'm tired.
moss		Finish Strong!  Are you nuts?  Are you nuts?  This's Pennies from Heaven... on his triumphal return home, Old Shoe, his Plane Forced Down...AND YET...
brean		He's supposed to be flying in from Europe.
moss		We'll deal with that when we come to it.  This is producing.  This is what they pay off on...come on, Pal, Boots and Saddles...
ames		...his Triumphal Plane.  Shot Down.
moss		Shot down, Forced down...  You guys are missing it... You're missing the opportunity
schumann		Isn't it time for my Pill...?
moss		This is producing.  This is, this is, this is the Beauty Part.  You've got your fortune right here, and you were ready to throw it away.  Because he's got a Problem?  F'it was easy, anyone would do it.  Otto Preminger.  Had to film a scene, in EXODUS.  The proclamation of the State of Israel.  Needed twenty thousand extras, n'Jerusalem Park.  Not enough money to pay'em.  What did he do?  What did he do?  Printed up signs:  Be in a movie, fifteen skekels.  He Charged'em -- had to turn'em away.  That's producing.  That's producing... n'you know, someday, people're gonna tell this story...
brean		You can't tell this story.
moss		Why not?
brean		Some'b'y'll have you killed.
moss		Ha ha.  No, no, not now, not now, of course, But Someday... when they tell this story...
ames		You can't tell this story.  He's not kidding you.  The pay off was, you get to be Ambassador, or...
moss		No, no, no...
schumann		...isn't it time for my Pill...?
brean		And what the fuck story are you gonna tell?  The guy is a nutcase.
moss		You would be, two, if you'd gone through what he went through.
brean		He raped a Nun...
moss		What he went through in Albania...
brean		He's doped to the Gills ...
schumann		...where's my l'il pill?
moss		 Show some compassion.
brean		... and he spent the last twelve years in a Milit&ry Prison... 
ames		How do we explain that?
moss		...how do we Explain That?  Hey?  Am I worried...?
ames		...how do we explain that?  With the World Watching.
moss		Fuck the world.  Try a ten A.M. pitch meeting, no sleep, coked-to-the-gills, and you haven't even read the material.
ames		But how do we explain the fact he was in prison?
moss		How do we explain that?  Ah, well, you see, Wilfred, this is where you've never been at a pitch.  You see? His records say he was in prison ... as they must, as all the records of Group 303 have the men and the women, carried on their roster, as belonging somewhere else, the secrecy required of....
angle		MOSS STILL TALKING, THE HARVESTER CONTINUING DOWN THE ENDLESS ROWS OF WHEAT, MOVING AWAY FROM THE CAMERA.
nole		Get out and vote, get out and vote, but remember the difference, between a Promise, and a deed -- a promise- and-a-deed...
angle		ON BREAN AND MOSS, WHO WALK SCHUMANN ACROSS THE HIGHWAY. IN THE B.G. WE SEE AMES TALKING TO THE DRIVER OF THE HARVESTER, WHO IS A SMALL, HISPANIC MAN.
moss		 ..."down safely," crew perished in the Crash....
brean		 No, I'm On Top of it...
moss		"...unsure whether or not Enemy Action..."
brean		No, I'm fine... I got it together....
moss		...but...
brean		You got a dime....?
brean		 Hello.  I'm fine.  We're fine.  We're... stand by to copy this, will... just get a pencil.... He is Down Safely, though...
angle		ON MOSS, AS HE WALKS THE GROGGY SCHUMANN TOWARD THE GAS STATION.
moss		...how ya feeling, boy?
schumann		...mmm.
moss		...'bout ready to Mix it Up...?
schumann		Is today Laundry Day...?
moss		Hiya.
owner		Yup.
moss		How 'bout a Cold Drink...?
nole		...produce this Schumann.  Produce him.  I say;  or, and I do not hesitate to say it, rank him as Just One More...
nole		 Just One More of a series of Broken Promises.  Of ... Fantasies, yes, Fantasies, which...
angle		ON BREAN AND MOSS, AS THEY CLUSTER UP TO THE TELEVISION.  IN THE B.G., SCHUMANN, SITTING ON A STOOL AT THE COUNTER.
angle		ON THE THREE, AS THEY WATCH THE TELEVISION.
moss		Okay ... it's time for the Cavalry.  Nick of Time.... sonofabitches.... Fuck with me...?
angle		TIGHT ON SCHUMANN WHO SEES SOMETHING OUT OF THE CORNER OF HIS EYE.
angle		SCHUMANN, AS HE LOOKS AWAY, AND MUTTERS TO HIMSELF.
schumann		"...where's my pill..."
angle		THE GROUP WATCHING TELEVISION.
president		...he is down safely, though the flight crew perished in the crash.  He will be transhipped, we are informed he has sustained minor injuries, which will require his being medicated for some time, but, I am assured...
moss		 You see, this is what I'm talking about.  Stand It On Its Head.  How does it Work for your benefit...
ames		I'm concerned about the driver of the rig.
moss		What rig?
ames		...the Harvester... 
brean		What about him?
ames		Well, he doesn't have his Green Card.  He Doesn't have his Greencard.
angle		ON SCHUMANN, WHO HAS CONE TO THE BACK OF THE COUNTER, AND IS EMPTYING THE CANNISTERS.
schumann		 Where's my pill...?
angle		CU.  ON SCHUMANN, LEERING.
ames		... you want Schumann saved by an Illegal Alien...?
brean		Well, what do you want to do about it?  What do you...
moss		Pals:  Get on the phone... r'they flying it?
brean		They'll be here in ten minutes.
moss		Get on the phone, have'em fly in a ...whaddaya need to be a citizen?  A Judge?  Whaddaya need?  A Judge...? Call in a Judge, call in a Federal Judge, and...  If you're concerned about him, being an ..."immigrant." Make him a citizen... Eh?  Guys ... what's all this mopery, we...
angle		ON SCHUMANN, LEERING.
schumann		 ...where is my pill?
angle		ON THE MEN, IN THE ROOM, ARGUING ABOUT THE ILLEGAL ALIEN, SCHUMANN IN THE B.G.
schumann		WHERE'S MY FUCKING PIIIILLLLLLL...?
owner		Susie...?  Susie...
moss		Oh, hell...
owner		Susie?  Susie.  Are you alright...?  Susie...
moss		Lemme talk to him.  Will?  Shoe?
owner		SUSIE...?  Are you alright...?
moss		 Lemme talk to him.  Shoe?  Shoe...?  You in there...?
angle		ON THE GAS STATION OWNER, WHO HAS RETREATED TO HIS COUNTER AND PRODUCES A SHOTGUN, AND STARTS TO LOAD IT.
moss		 Shoe, boy...?  You know, you were telling me you wanted Beans?  Remember, you were concerned about the Beans...?
moss		 No, 1emme talk to him... 1emme talk to him, we have a relationship...
moss		 'Member, we were talking about how much you liked the "beans" and all...?
brean		 ...now look what's happened...
ames		So-close-and-yet-so-far.
moss		Naa, fuck this, this is nothing.  Oh, Lord -- this just got Big.  I see it -- Big -- Big for you and big for me.
ames		What are you talking about?
moss		You're not thinking right, Pal...
ames		He's dead. 
moss		And what is bigger than a triumphal Homecoming...?
angle		BREAN AND MOSS, DISHEVELLED, UNSHAVEN, LOOKING ON.
angle		BREAN AND MOSS, THEY SWIVEL THEIR HEADS, AND WE SEE, BEYOND THE DOORS OF THE HANGAR, A VAST CROWD, FLASHBULBS BEGIN POPPING.
brean		...coffee...?
moss		Yes, please.
moss		 Good.  Good.  Good.  Looking Good, bring-it-all-back- home.  Lassie Barks Twice n'it's time to take out the garbage.
brean		Hell of a show.  Hell of a job, Stan.
moss		 ...one more day.
brean		Naw, naw, we own the airways... 
moderator		...thrust of the Albanian Episode, to put him over the top...
joyce		What would be true, then.
joyce		...as of today, 89% favorable.
brean		...events.
joyce		...by you?
joyce		Well, there's a lot to be said for that.  And I'm going to show a clip.  But I'm going to ask you to look at it once more.  With the election one day off, and the President's standing in the polls...
joyce		...a record, a record high for sitting president, I'd like you to watch the campaign that put him there when we come back.
moss		You see?  What's the lesson here?  Never give up. Never give up.
brean		No.  You're right.
moss		Show Must Go On.
brean		A proud tradition.
moss		Prouder of this, than anything I ever did in my life. I want to thank you, Ron.  Want to thank you.
joyce		And as we said.  The President, a sure-fire winner, and the campaign, many said, that put him there...
jockey one		Which horse you going to ride tomorrow, Jim?
jockey two		Well, Chuck, my Daddy used to say, and I've lived by it:  never change Horses in...
moss		 ...oh no...
joyce		And now, we're going to be taking your calls.  The number is...
brean		What're you doing?
moss		I'm looking for a phone...
brean		No, I don't think you can do that.
moss		Watch me.
brean		No, I don't think you can do that, Stanley...
moss		Watch me.
brean		Stanley.  Stanley... you knew the... Stanley.  You knew the deal when you signed on.
moss		Deal's changed.
brean		No, the deal isn't changed.  The Deal isn't changed. You can't ... what is it?  Money?  Money?  You want Money?
moss		Money?  You think I did this for money...?  I did this for Credit.  Credit, paalll...
brean		But you always knew you couldn't take the credit....
moss		That's one thing, but I'm not gonna let two dickheads from Filmschool take it... are you Nuts?  Are you Nuts?
angle		TIGHT ON THE TWO.
brean		Stanley, no fooling... no fooling... you're playing with your life here...
moss		Fuck my life... Fuck my life.... Z WANT THE CREDIT... The Credit.  Do you know what the New York Times said about my last picture?  They pissed on me.  They pissed on me.  Do you know what that picture Grossed?  And now some limp-dick film school pansy...
joyce		 That number to call....
brean		Stanley, you can't do this....
ames		Could we have you in here, please...7
angle		ON BREAN, AS HE PROCEEDS TO THE BACK ROOM, WHERE WE SEE AMES, STANDING WITH THE MAN, WHO NOW HAS ON HIS BLACK ROBE, AND HOLDS A BIBLE OUT TO THE HISPANIC FELLOW IN THE STRAW COWBOY HAT.
ames		 ...we need a witness.
angle		ON THIS ROOM, WITH THE HUGE HANGAR, AND THE CASKET IN THE FAR ROOM. ANGLE, ON BREAN AS HE SHAKES HIS HEAD SADLY.
angle		ON VARIOUS SPECTATORS, WEEPING, MANY OF THEM WITH OLD SHOES HUNG AROUND THEIR NECKS.  303 SWEATSHIRTS.  ET CETERA...  THE SPECTATORS CRANE THEIR NECKS.
newscaster		...coming, yes, yes, I can just...yes, the caisson, bearing his remains, the Riderless Horse, led by three members of his unit, 303, identified by their distinctive Caps...
announcer		 ...sident Elect -- the President-Elect of the United States...
radio		 ...the end of the incredible saga of One Man, his country, and a War He did Not Wish, but unto which he...
end		 WAG THE DOG  A SCREENPLAY BY  DAVID  MAMET
****Dialogues from script :Walk_to_Remember.txt****

july 27, 2000		WARNER BROS.                                  2000 4000 Warner Boulevard                        WARNER BROS. Burbank, California 91522                    All Rights Reserved
landon		 Where is he? He's supposed to be here.
eric		 I need to whizz.
landon		Eric.    You're such a hummingbird.
belinda		I wanna dance.
landon		So go dance.
belinda		With you.
landon		I.    Don't.   Dance.
eric		 Dee plane. Dee plane.
clay		Go go go go.
landon		 Kelly. He looks like his face caught fire and he tried to put it out with a fork.
eric		He couldn't find his own butt with both hands at high noon in a hall of mirrors.
clay		Go!
clay		Kelly's so old he --
landon		We're done with that already, bonehead.
eric		 Landon. To save your life, you have to either go deaf or go numb in your dick and balls.
landon		I'm thinking.
eric		No thinking. The doctor only gives you three seconds to decide --
landon		Could I lose one ear and one nut?
eric		No questions, no negotiating --
belinda		 Where do you get these stupid questions -- ?
landon		Hypotheticals --
eric		 I'm just wondering --
belinda		Don't wonder.
landon		Jamie Sullivan.
their pov		 A pale, contemplative GIRL, 17, is jumping down off the gate, caught in the headlights. Wearing clothes she probably made herself; long hair hiding her face. She lives in her mind, not her body.
belinda		Brain.
eric		Bible freak.
landon		Cherry.
jamie		 Hey. Hi. Your lights. Any chance you could... turn them off --
belinda		 God give you this road?
jamie		No --
belinda		Then we'll be keeping the lights on.
landon		 If you want the lights off, I'll turn them off.
jamie		Thank you.   Thank you so very much.
belinda		 'Thank you. Thank you so very much.'
his pov		 Jamie scaling the fence, practiced at it.
eric		Ten years. Where're you gonna be?  Hypothetically?
belinda		Paris.
clay		Dead.
landon		Right here.   With you.
clay		'Twilight Zone.' 'One Step Beyond.' 'Tales from the Dark Side.'
eric		'Twilight Zone,' dipshit.
landon		Don't call him a dipshit.
eric		You do --
landon		And you don't.  What's she doing in there?
belinda		Nothing I'd be doing.
landon		Shit!
landon		The address?!
eric		York Ave.
landon		What number?
landon		Dildoes.
clay		Christ, man.
landon		You okay?
eric		Yeah.
landon		Belinda?
landon's face		 Frightened, anguished.     The real Landon showing for an instant.  Police SIRENS WAIL in the b.g., growing LOUDER.
cynthia		What if they expel you?
landon		Kelly wouldn't do that.
cynthia		Why not?
landon		Cuz nothing happened at school.
cynthia		Don't smile at me. It's not going to get you out of this.
landon		Why not?   It always has before.
landon		Like I'd grow up to be president, another Reagan.
landon		I'm no dummy.
landon		Those aren't mine.
landon		I wasn't the one drinking.
landon		You expelling me?
landon		Now I can do what I want.
landon		Mom.   I need a ride.
cynthia		 What're you doing home?
cynthia		You're not hanging round here all day.
landon		I'm not hanging. I'm fixing my car --
cynthia		You don't need a car you can't drive for a month. Go see Marvin.
landon		'Bout what?
cynthia		About a job.
landon		I'm not working there.
landon		Who's he in with?
miss tarbox		He'll be with you when he's available.
landon		 You expelled, too?
landon		I want to come back.
landon		 I want to graduate.
landon		 I'd do that --
landon		 Please.
landon		For pay?
landon		 I'm as underprivileged as they are --
landon		 I'd work backstage or something?
landon		When do I get time for me?
landon		Then you remember more than I do.
jamie		 -- Saturn's 15 degrees to the right of red Antares and much brighter.
jamie		This is a very simple device made from a coat hanger, plastic wrap and typewriter correction fluid. Does anyone know what it is?
landon		 A star frame.
jamie		This is a star frame.
jamie		A star frame will help you locate stars and planets with your naked eye --
clay		 -- Did God create the sun?
jamie		 Yes, God created the universe and all its physical laws. Even Einstein said it's a miracle that our world is comprehensible --
eric		-- If God can do all that, why can't he get you a new sweater?
landon		That was a joke. Laugh.
cynthia		Your father dropped off an extra check.
landon		I don't want his money.
cynthia		It could help with a new car --
landon		-- I like the car I have.
landon		 -- 'So what is the measure of angle x if A and B are similar triangles?'
landon		Know what 'similar' means?
landon's pov		 Jamie sitting there.   And no vacant seats save next to her.
jamie		You going to visit Harold?
jamie		They let him out of the hospital yesterday. He's in a rest home on Oak Street.
jamie		He goes to my father's church.   He could've died --
landon		-- This your idea of small talk?
jamie		I don't make small talk --
landon		-- Obviously.
jamie		I just wanted to tell you not to give up. Sometimes you've got to back into the teaching from somewhere else.
jamie		What makes you volunteer?  Want to know why I tutor reading?
jamie		Because, growing up, books were my world.
landon		 Were?
jamie		You don't know me.
landon		Your book and your brown sweater and your hair. What's more to know -- ?
jamie		-- I wear the sweater because I'm cold. I read because no one talks to me. My hair is my hair. What is it exactly that's bothering you?
landon		You don't care what people say?
jamie		You mean care what you say? I'm worrying about other things.
landon		Like what?   The moons of Jupiter?
jamie		Can't you have a normal conversation?
landon		I don't want to have any conversation.
jamie		Good, cuz talking to you is like trying to explain red to a blind person.
landon		What's the play?
eddie		The-the-there's this drought an' -- and a smooth t-t-alking guy comes and says he can m-make rain --
landon		-- And the ugly farmer's daughter falls for him. I saw the movie.
eddie		Yeah.   It's really g-g-good --
landon		-- It blows.
landon		 'I hope your dreams come true.'
jamie		 'They won't.'
landon		 'Believe in yourself and they will. Let me ask you, Lizzie. Look in the mirror? Are you pretty --?'
landon		No, it just comes naturally.
landon		 'It's got to be inside you. Then one day the mirror will be the eyes of the man who loves you. You'll look in that mirror and you'll be more than pretty. You'll be beautiful.'
landon		 'Look at me. Tell me what you see!'
jamie		 'Is it really me?'
landon		 'Yes. You're-you're b-b- beautiful.'
landon		 No way. No thanks. I can't do it --
landon		 You're like this fly, buzzing buzzing everywhere --
jamie		-- This play means a lot to me.
landon		 This play -- ?
jamie		-- I know you don't suck at acting.
jamie		But you have to make it a big joke because only dorks and dweebies like doing theater --
landon		-- What are you going on about?
jamie		I can judge too.
jamie		You don't care about classes or graduating. But you like school because you're popular and you know you'll never be on top again.
landon		That's deep --
jamie		-- Your act only works with an audience.
landon		My act?!
landon		A ride?!   Please!
landon		 We can talk about your helping me with my lines.
jamie		I know you don't want help.
landon		Then we both know.  I'll point. You drive.    Faster.
jamie		We're following fire trucks?
landon		Yeah.
jamie		Why?
landon		 Because that's where the fire is?
landon		Fire is like a living thing. Wild. Unpredictable.
jamie		Like me.
landon		No.    Not like you.
landon		What the -- ?!
jamie		So you agree you need help?
landon		Yes!
jamie		Really?
landon		Yeah. Kelly'll make me leave school if I screw up the play.
landon		What's with the friggin numbers?
jamie		28 is do something illegal.   42 is befriend an enemy.
landon		I'm an enemy?
jamie		Kinda.    Yeah.
jamie		The reason I got the part... I'm a little like Lizzie. Except I don't worry about some man rescuing me.
landon		Good thing.
landon		You got some kind of list?
jamie		Are you asking to mock me or do you really want to know?
landon		Maybe a little of both.
jamie		I'll take a chance.
landon		Go for it.
jamie		It's like a to-do list, but for my life.
jamie		If you can't imagine the future, you won't have one.
landon		So what else is on this list?
jamie		It's private.
landon		 You want to tell me...
landon		 Get very wasted. Lose your virginity --
jamie		 Spend a year in the Peace Corps. Make a medical discovery --
landon		 Ambitious.
jamie		Being negative's a lot more work than being positive.
landon		Like you'd know.
jamie		I do know.  Be two places at once... learn to hit a baseball or turn a cartwheel... eat breakfast with chopsticks...
landon		What's... Number one?
jamie		 You have to promise not to fall in love with me.
landon		No problem --
jamie		And you have to meet my father.
landon		Fathers love me.
landon		Hey.   Landon Carter.
landon		Lead man.
landon		 They took my license for 30 days. But nobody's pressing charges.
jamie		I'll get something for us to drink --
landon		Don't bother!
landon		You know our planet would not suffer for one nanosecond if humans died off. But if ants disappeared, that would be catastrophic.
landon		 Apropos of nothing... so. So so so so --
jamie		I miss anything?
jamie		He wants help with his lines --
jamie		By accident --
jamie		I'm supposed to always be alone?
jamie		Fine. But I need to start deciding how to spend my time and my life.
jamie		Dad, I've become a woman without her. Just not a pretty one.
jamie		 I know. Don't say anything.
landon		He's a softy. Got him wrapped around my finger.
jamie		You think so.
landon		Know so.
jamie		This way.
jamie		People think I'm strange, don't they?
landon		 Yes.
jamie		Because I try to be nice to people?
landon		Yeah.   Maybe.    I dunno.
jamie		Do you think I'm strange?
landon		Yeah.   But that can be good.
landon		Why are we here?
jamie		Cuz it's dark and quiet and you can see into another world.
landon		 The world of the dead?
jamie		 Could be...
jamie		My mother's buried near here.
landon		My father's alive but it's like he's dead.
landon		What is that?
jamie		 That is my telescope.
landon		 Saturn. Beautiful.
jamie		Before Voyager we expected maybe a dozen rings --
landon		But there are thousands of them, made of floating ice --
jamie		Maybe debris from a moon that broke apart.
landon		Or building blocks for a world that never formed.
landon		I'm not smart.     Just a sponge.
jamie		Sometimes I come here and just scan the heavens.
landon		 Looking for intelligent life?
jamie		Looking for something -- someone.
landon		Do you believe you'll see your mother again?
jamie		I hope so.  I think maybe she sees me now.
jamie		 I'm building a larger one to see the nucleus of Haley's Comet --
landon		The dirty snowball at its core.
jamie		Yeah.  I'm probably not going to be around next time it comes.
landon		In 76 years, me neither.
landon		You're really into God, right?
jamie		In ten words or less?
landon		Yeah.
jamie		My relationship with God is my own.
landon		But you think about Him -- It -- Her.
jamie		Don't you?
landon		Not really.
jamie		When you do, how do you?
landon		Like in a church painting. I see this giant hovering over the ground. He's wearing a robe, and has long flowing hair, and he's pointing his finger at something.
jamie		Do you ever wonder why things happen the way they do?
landon		No.
jamie		I know there's a plan for everyone, but sometimes I don't understand what the message is -- or what the point is.
landon		There is no point. You live.     You die. The end.
jamie		Maybe we're not supposed to understand, but we're supposed to have faith that someone else sees the big picture.
landon		You have to believe to have faith.
jamie		You don't believe in anything?
landon		The Bible. Why should I read a bunch of dumb stories about some ancient guy who supposedly worked miracles.
jamie		Interpreted by another guy like my father.
landon		Your father doesn't like me.
jamie		He doesn't trust you.
landon		Sometimes I don't even trust me.
jamie		I'm not afraid of you.
landon		Likewise.
eric		Women are definitely evolving into men.
clay		The moustaches on some girls. Unbelievable.
belinda		Why is Jamie Sullivan staring at us?
eric		She wants to jump Landon's bones.
belinda		That is so pitiful.
landon		She's very confused.
clay		Deluded.
eric		Deranged.
landon		Demented.
belinda		She's coming over here...
landon		Heart be still.
jamie		 Hi.
jamie		The play's going to be really good.
landon		 I'm really glad you think so.
jamie		I guess you don't want to practice lines tonight.
landon		You guessed right.
belinda		That's one girl who can't take a hint.
landon		Because she doesn't know what a hint is.
landon		 Reverend Sullivan, I have to talk to your daught--
jamie		What is your problem?
landon		You're not in a very good mood.
jamie		You don't miss a thing.
landon		The play's in a couple of weeks.
jamie		Yes.   And?
landon		I was hoping we could run lines together.
jamie		Oh.   Just not at school...
landon		Yeah --
jamie		Or anywhere where people might see us.
landon		Belinda's a very jealous person.
jamie		That would be the reason.
jamie		So it's like you want to be secret friends.
landon		That's it! Exactly! You're reading my mind --
jamie		Then maybe you can read mine.
jamie		I thought I saw something in you, something good. But I was wrong.
landon		Why do you have to be so weird?!
landon		Let's get outta here.
landon		You, me, and the basket. We're the three corners of a triangle. Take one step in.
landon		Am I at the same angle to you and the basket as before?
luis		Yeah.
landon		Are you?
luis		Yeah.
landon		So what did we just make?
luis		A similar triangle?
landon		What else? What kind of triangle has three sides of different lengths.
luis		Scalene?
landon		Okay.   Make me an isosceles.
landon		Yes!    Two sides the same.
on stage		 The set is a wealthy Midwestern ranch house of the 1950s. Eddie and two other BOYS play other characters. The play's underway...
stage left		 Landon watches, dressed as Bill Starbuck in a nicely fitted suit. Waiting for his entrance.
eddie		 'Because if we do, she'll think we're trying to get rid of her.'
jamie		 'Morning, Pop. Boys. I dreamed we had a rain, rain coming down in sheets! Lightning flashed, thunder rolled up and down the canyon like a kid with a big drum!'
jamie		 'I know why you sent me to Sweetriver. Six boys in that family. The first three days, I stayed in my room.'
on stage		 Landon, Jamie, and the three boys.
landon		 '... You'll look in that mirror and you'll be more than pretty. You'll be beautiful. Look at me. Tell me what you see!'
jamie		 'Is it really me?'
landon's pov		 Jamie, her face lovely. Her eyes shining, radiating, looking directly at him.
landon		 You're beautiful.'
audience		 Principal Kelly, pleased. Cynthia Carter, proud. Clay and Eric, surprised. Reverend Sullivan, frowning, concerned. Belinda's face is cold, hard.
landon's pov		 Belinda getting into her car.
landon		Belinda!
belinda		What?!
belinda		That's what I thought!
landon		Who invited you?
landon		Not hungry.
landon		Like you walked away from us?
eric		 She's like some Puritan.
landon		She's not.    She's got her own ideas.
clay		Mutant ideas.
landon		Maybe to you.
eric		Belinda's telling everyone that kiss was real.
landon		It was.
eric		And that you're scamming on Jamie Sullivan.
landon		 Scamming's a strong word.
landon		You weren't in school yesterday.
jamie		I went to the doctor with my father.
landon		He okay?
jamie		Healthy as can be.
landon		You were great the other night.
jamie		Thank you.   So were you.
landon		I haven't been nice to you.
jamie		You're hardly nice to anyone.
landon		 I'm sorry.
jamie		 I wish I could believe you.
eric		Landon!
landon		Later.
jamie		People can see.
landon		And that would ruin your reputation how?
landon		 What's that?
jamie		I'm reading all the novels on Mr. Rothberg's best American authors list.
landon		How many books are there?
jamie		 A hundred. Then there's his classics list. And his European list.
landon		That on your 'Life List.'    To read all those books?
landon		Jamie. Maybe I want to try being positive.
landon		Maybe I miss doing that dumb play with you.
landon		Maybe you inspire me.
jamie		That sounds like horseshit.
landon		Which part?
jamie		All of it.
landon		It's not.
jamie		Prove it.
landon		I just did!
landon		Jamie --
jamie		You lack honor. You lack compassion. You lack honesty. You lack humanity.
landon		Okay. Maybe some of that is true --
jamie		You don't know the first thing about being someone's friend --
landon		I don't want to be just your friend --
jamie		You don't know what you want --
landon		You don't either. Take a look at yourself. Maybe you're scared that someone might actually like you --
jamie		And why would that scare me?
landon		Because then you couldn't hide behind your books and your telescope and your sweater and your God.
landon		But the real reason you're scared? You like me!
landon		If you were really my friends, you'd be helping me, not running me down.
eric		The only one running you down is you.
cynthia		Out with Belinda?
landon		That's over.   Way over.
cynthia		I can't know things if you don't tell me.
landon		Dad came to the play.
cynthia		 You saw him?
landon		We talked. He wanted to get a bite -- after. I said no.
cynthia		 After he moved out, I invited him to every practice, every game, every parent-teacher conference you ever had. He didn't show, not once.
landon		He wants to show now.
cynthia		You going to let him? You going to reward him by being the son he was never man enough to be a father to?
cynthia		 You do that.
jamie		Thank you for buying tickets. We've raised two hundred and eighty-five dollars.
landon		 About enough to buy maybe five volumes in a set of encyclopedias.
jamie		It's a start.
landon		Yeah, with a finish in about a decade.
landon		So you're talking to me?
jamie		When I have something to say.
landon		What's number one on your list?
landon		My number one would be getting out of Beaufort.
jamie		Getting out won't be your problem. It'll be figuring out what you want when you get somewhere.
landon		What does that mean?!
jamie		 It means you can do anything.
cynthia		Landon! Come enjoy the tree! Landon?!
cynthia		You look nice.     I should have dressed.
landon		You're fine like that, Mom.
cynthia		There's hot cider in the kitchen.
landon		 Thanks.
cynthia		I haven't seen Clay or Eric lately.
landon		Me neither.
cynthia		No great loss --
landon		I need to go out.
cynthia		 To see your father?
landon		No.   I won't be long.
landon		 It's a present. Take it.
landon		 Merry Christmas! And to all a good night!
jamie		 Up to?
jamie		Dad, why don't you get to the point where you get to the point.
jamie		No.
jamie		It was a play.
jamie		I have expectations, too.
jamie		I haven't asked you to.
landon		For me. Christmas is all about the smells.
landon		Pine's my favorite. That and cider with cloves.
harold		Who are you?
landon		Landon Carter.     I was driving the car that --
harold		You.
landon		Me.
landon		I'm very sorry --
harold		What kind of a man are you, son?
landon		 I don't know that I am -- a man. Yet. I'm working on it.
harold		I've worked on it my whole life.
harold		Get yourself a glass.
landon		No. Thanks. Gotta keep my wits for the drive home.
harold		You'll sit a while.
landon		I will.
salesman		Eight hundred.
landon		It's got a new V-6 and transmission. Alloy wheels.  Twelve hundred.
salesman		Nine-fifty.
landon		New paint. Extra chrome.     Not a scratch anywhere.
salesman		The interior is --
landon		Reconditioned. Completely. Be a collector's someday. Twelve hundred.
salesman		You can't expect me to pay you for your -- attachment to that car.
landon		I don't. I expect you to pay me for yours.
landon		For Jefferson High. For books.
landon		 It's mine to give. I didn't steal it.
landon		Hey.
jamie		I heard what you did.   Thank you.
landon		 She great or what?
jamie		Why are you doing all this?   To impress me?
landon		No.  But are you -- impressed?
jamie		Like fire.
landon		What?
jamie		You.
landon		New Year's Eve. Would you go out with me?!
jamie		Yes.    But not as a date date.
landon		Why not?
jamie		I'm not allowed to date.
landon's pov		 Reverend Sullivan is sitting behind his desk, examining legal-looking documents and records. He takes his glasses off, rubs his eyes.
landon		Reverend Sullivan. Can I ask you something?
landon		Yes, sir.
landon		I'd like to take Jamie to dinner on New Year's Eve.
landon		I'm sorry I haven't always treated Jamie the way -- I should have. She deserves better.
landon		I care for her.
landon		I wouldn't do that --
landon		Ever again.
landon		Start the engine.
landon		Again.
landon		One more time.
landon		 You came here to give me my report card?
landon		Thank you.
jamie		I can't believe you asked my father's permission.
landon		I wanted this to be a date.
jamie's pov		 Landon wolfing down his food.
jamie		Is there a rush?
landon		I have to get you home by one.
landon		We're going somewhere. After. And no. I didn't ask your father.
jamie		Excuse you.
landon		Your turn.
jamie		 No.
landon		I know you want to.
landon		Bring the air all the way up from your stomach.
landon		Before we do this.
jamie		We're doing something -- ?
landon		Before we do this, I just want to say that a good life's gotta be about more than achieving stuff -- like on your list.
landon		It's about working with what you already have -- right now -- at your fingertips -- you know, spontaneously.
jamie		What are you talking about?
landon		That little bit of larceny in your heart.
jamie		Excuse me?
landon		Fun.
landon		Swing! Keep your bat parallel to the ground. Follow through. Follow through!
landon		 Let's go.
landon		The cells in our bodies are always changing. In six or seven years all your cells have changed. You could be like a completely new person from the inside out.
jamie		That what's happening to you, only faster?
landon		Get out.   Come on.
jamie		Where -- what -- are we -- ?
landon		Stand right here.
jamie		Where?
jamie		You're acting like a crazy person.
landon		You're straddling the state line. You're in two places at once.
landon		Repeat after me.
jamie		I can't.
landon		I'm gonna teach you.
jamie		It's places like this that make me certain there's a God.
landon		 You're sometimes not sure?
jamie		I'm sure.    Pretty sure.
jamie		It's like the wind. I can't see it but I feel it.
landon		We can measure wind.
jamie		Uncertainty makes you uncomfortable.
landon		What do you actually know with religion?
jamie		Wonder.     Beauty. Joy.  Love.
jamie		My mother told me God is love, so when you're feeling love, you're feeling God.  I think talking about these things -- threatens their very beauty and mystery.
jamie		 I don't understand...
landon		Maybe you're not supposed to.
landon		I might kiss you.
jamie		I might do it wrong.
landon		 Not possible.
landon		I love you, Jamie.
landon		 Now's when you say something.
jamie		 I can't -- explain.
jamie		You make me feel...
landon		 Loved?
jamie		 That.    And less strange.
jamie		Be very quiet.
landon		Hey, Reverend.
landon		 Happy New Year.
landon		 What's your damage?
landon		Assholes.     This happen to you?
jamie		Twice a year.
landon		Now they all match.
landon		What's wr--?
jamie		 The Challenger exploded. Principal Kelly's about to make an announcement.
landon		Come on.
jamie		Where?
landon		Away from here.
jamie		How do you know this place?
landon		Before the divorce. My father used to take me here. Fire spotting was his summer job.
landon		From here he proved to me the earth isn't flat.  On rainy days, we'd be above the clouds.
jamie		What would you do up here?
landon		Look.   Talk.   Not talk.
landon		What'd you tell your father?
jamie		The truth.   I just left you out of it.
landon		When did you build this?
jamie		I was twelve.
jamie		It's not that complicated.
jamie		It's an alt-azimuth design with one parabolic mirror and one secondary flat one.
landon		Where's the one you're building?
jamie		In my back yard.  I lied before. It's hardly started. But when it's done, it will have twice the power of this one --
landon		Wait, back up.     You lied?
jamie		Kinda.   Yeah.
jamie		So what do you want to see?
landon		Mars.
jamie		Mars doesn't rise until 2:30 A.M. --
landon		A Thermos of hot coffee.       A blanket. Socks.
jamie		You planned this --
landon		Hoped for it.
jamie		Are you trying to seduce me?
landon		No.   Why?   Are you seducible?
jamie		 No.
landon		That's what I thought.
landon		Ergo, a second blanket.   One for me, one for you.
jamie		Ergo?
landon		 What about your father?
jamie		I'm always home by midnight and he's always asleep.
reverend's pov		 The Yugo parked by the gate.
landon		Where's Pluto?
jamie		In Virgo, but it's about 1000 times too faint to see.
landon		What's the best thing I can see tonight?
jamie		Me.
jamie		The second best thing is Jupiter.
landon		Can you locate XXI5639I?
jamie		Sure.
jamie		Here.   Why am I looking at this star?
landon		Because I had it named for you.     I know it's not an official designation --
jamie		It's wonderful. I love you.
landon		 Okay.   I'm stopping.
landon		What's number one?
jamie		 In April when the dogwoods and wisteria are blooming... Get married.
cynthia		A late night or an early morning?
landon		 You?
cynthia		Were you with Jamie?
landon		Yeah.
cynthia		You sleeping with her?
cynthia		I was cleaning yesterday.   I found this.
cynthia		Scuba dive. Touch a moon rock. Learn to read Egyptian hieroglyphs. Go to college?  She talking to you 'bout this stuff?
cynthia		Honey, some of this is... farfetched. You take after me. People skills and common sense. Good dependable qualities.
landon		I could take after Dad, too.
cynthia		You do. You're handsome and charming.
landon		I meant he's a doctor.
cynthia		That's eight years of school and training -- after college. And all that doesn't necessarily make you a better human being.
landon		I could do it if I tried.   Even Kelly thinks so.
cynthia		That'd be something.
cynthia		But if it doesn't happen, grab for something within reach. Life's tough enough without causing yourself disappointment --
landon		 Whatever my life is, I'm going to be friggin' sure I'm never disappointed --
cynthia		 It catches you by surprise.
cynthia		Have I told you how proud I am of you -- ?
landon		Mom, great. But what I want is for me to be proud of me.
landon		No.
landon		Like what, sir?
landon		Okay.  Sure.  Made a big impression on him.
landon		My cousin Mike. He's from a big family. He's the fifth kid. He heard that every fifth child in the world is Chinese. So he thought he was.
landon		We didn't tell him any different for years --
landon		Since I was five. My mom's a cocktail waitress.
landon		Materially or spiritually?
landon		 I don't know. We used to try to believe in each other.
his pov		 Jamie showing Landon the junk pile that will become her newer, larger telescope. They are laughing, jostling each other, comfortable, happy.
jamie		You're asking if we're involved?
jamie		Dad --
jamie		Maybe. But that's not the real reason. You think if I tell, he'll disappear and that's what you want! Me all to yourself!
jamie		This -- him -- Landon -- is what's best for me!
landon		Hey, Belinda.
landon		Clay, Eric.
jamie		 From citizen high to citizen low.
landon		I don't care.
jamie		Care, but just don't let it get to you. It gives them power.
landon		That what you do?
jamie		Yes.   I try to keep my power.
landon		One of your secrets.
jamie		 Yes, one of many.
landon		You're worried about your college applications.
jamie		I'm not applying to college.
landon		 But you said --
jamie		No, you assumed.
landon		You're going to take a year off? Join the Peace Corps -- ?
jamie		No.
landon		What are you going to -- ?
jamie		Pull over.
landon		Where?   Why?
jamie		Pull over.   Now. Please.
landon		Jamie --
jamie		I'm sick.
landon		Then I'll take you home.      You'll feel better tomorrow.
jamie		Landon. I'm sick -- with leukemia.
jamie		I found out last winter. I'm not responding to treatment anymore.
landon		Why didn't you tell me?
jamie		The doctors said to do everything the same as long as possible.  I didn't want anyone being -- weird around me.
landon		Including me?!
jamie		Especially you.  God gives me an illness, then you. A cruel joke.
landon		I'm not letting you die.
landon		How -- how long does she have?
landon		So you've given up.
landon		 Praying.
landon		If there is a God, how could he let this happen??!!
landon		Dr. Carter!... Carter!... Dad! Please!! I have to talk to you!!
landon		Open the door!     Please!!
landon		You have to save her!
landon		It's Jamie -- my girlfriend -- she has cancer -- you have to come look at her -- right now!
landon		I don't give a shit what time it is!
landon		You're a doctor, aren't you?!!
cynthia		Your father called.
cynthia		Jamie's a patient at his hospital. He's having a colleague look at her chart this morning.
cynthia		I'm sorry.   I didn't know.
landon		I didn't know either.
jamie's pov		 Landon pacing, talking to himself.  92.  BACK TO SCENE  She starts to raise the window, to say something, to help him, but then lets the curtain drop. She needs for him to decide, for him to be ready to face this with her.  The sound of a CAR.   She looks out the window again.
jamie's pov		 The Yugo driving away.
landon		He can't do anything.
cynthia		If it's incurable --
landon		I told him to leave me alone.
cynthia		Landon --
landon		 It was the only thing I've ever asked him!
cynthia		I brought some dinner.
jamie		 He'll call.
jamie		 But he did change. Just not enough.
jamie		 I don't even know where to put all my anger.
jamie		By making me ill, he is punishing me!  I just don't know what for.
cynthia		I don't care if you don't leave the house. But you have to get out of bed.
cynthia		You and I may not be communicating very well right now. But let me be clear. Don't make this about you. It's about her.
landon		I have no idea what to say. How to act. What if I do the wrong thing?
cynthia		 Let Jamie take the lead. She'll let you know what she needs.
landon		Where's Jamie?!
jamie		 She stands, holding her books, watching him, unsure.
landon		 finally feels her gaze, turns to look.
jamie		 turns away, still angry and disappointed.
landon		Jamie!
landon		I'm so sorry.    I'm a coward --
jamie		I should have told you sooner --
landon		 I made you do too many things, kept you up all night --
jamie		No. The drugs just stopped working. If anything, doing things I love kept me healthy longer.
landon		Are you frightened?
jamie		All the time.  I feel like I have no one.
landon		You have me.
jamie		Help me live until I die?
landon		I will.
landon		They're going to build a tunnel under the English Channel. They're calling it The Chunnel.
landon		You hungry?
jamie		Nope.
landon		Anything you want.
jamie		Nothing.
landon		Slim Jim? Apple? Yogurt?     You like yogurt.
jamie		I used to like yogurt.
landon		 Not very original. Happy Valentine's Day.
jamie		I didn't even think about it.
landon		There.   You gave me a chocolate.
landon		What are you thinking?
jamie		 That I want you to take me home.
landon		Now?    We just --
jamie		I don't want to come here anymore.
landon		You have a key?
jamie		Yeah.  I've just never needed it.  Will you talk to my father?
landon		I've talked to your father.
jamie		That's what I mean.
landon		 Sir. Being ignored is beginning to feel preferable to being noticed.
landon		I'll be honest. I don't know if I can pray, but I can do just about anything else.
landon		Whatever you need. Whatever Jamie needs. I'm here.  I could start by driving her to school --
jamie		I'm not going back to school.
jamie		You can tell anyone you want.   I don't care.
clay		Hey.   Landon.
eric		We heard 'bout Jamie Sullivan. She --
landon		 Say nothing. Nothing 'bout her.
eric		 No.    Hey. We're sorry, man!
landon		Too late and not enough.
landon		I know it means not graduating, but I need to be excused from all school acti--
jamie		Yesterday I felt sick, horrible. Today I feel like riding my bike. Or dancing.
jamie		You know how to waltz??
landon		 I was going to fake it.
jamie		I always fake it.
landon		How you doing?
jamie		 Tired.
landon		Time seems to be slowing down and speeding up at the same time.
eric		Hey.
landon		Hey.
jamie's pov		 Landon working on the new telescope.    He looks up at her window. Sees her there. Smiles.
landon		You okay?
landon		I'm not tired.
jamie		Dad.
jamie		So serious.
jamie		When Mom died you told me God wanted her more, loved her more --
landon		Where's Jamie's book?!
miss tarbox		That's everything Mr. Kelly gave me.
landon		 The next book on that list!   The Old Man and... and...
miss tarbox		The Sea.
landon		Yeah.   I need it today!
belinda		She asleep?
landon		I'll tell her you were here.
belinda		Give her this, okay?
belinda		Pictures from the play.   Jamie looks pretty --
landon		I'm sorry about how we --
belinda		 No.    You're with who you should be.    It's like she chose you.
landon		 And I have no idea why.
belinda		I do.
jamie		Hi.
landon		Hey.
jamie		I have something for you.
jamie		 Don't worry. It's not a Bible.
jamie		My mother made it for me before I was born.  It's got quotes from famous people. Her favorite lines from books. Her thoughts.
landon		 'What is a friend? A single soul dwelling in two bodies.' Aristotle.
jamie		Lower.   Same page.
landon		 'Find out who you are and do it on purpose.' Dolly Parton.
landon		'Love is always patient and kind. It is never boastful or conceited -- '
jamie		That was read at my parents' wedding.
landon		How're you doing?
jamie		 Better. I was really angry.
landon		I know.
jamie		It's gone now.
landon		 Because you have hope that you'll get better?
jamie		No.  Maybe I believe the journey, the big adventure, never ends...
jamie		Maybe I believe God sent you to me because I am ill. To help me through.
jamie		 I want to go home.
landon		 I'll talk to your father.
jamie		 It costs money to do this at home.
cynthia		 ... He doesn't talk to me, maybe not to anyone, except Jamie...
cynthia's pov		 Landon in his car in the driveway.
cynthia		 ... I've never asked you for extra. But we need it now... as soon as possible...
jamie		Isabel?
isabel		 Hi.
jamie		Who's been working with you?
cynthia		Sit with us a minute.
landon		 What are you doing here?
cynthia		He wants to talk to you.
landon		 Now it's okay?
cynthia		Landon. You have two parents. We're both here for you even --
landon		 Thank you.
jamie		Don't wake Landon.
jamie		Do I look scary?
eric		Not too bad.
clay		You all right?
jamie		 Things could be better.
clay		We thought you'd be asleep --
jamie		 I don't know what to say either.
jamie		What is it?
clay		For the book drive.      Landon told us about it --
eric		We told everyone at school.
cynthia		What can I do?
landon		Everything's being done but it's not enough. I have to find something -- more.
cynthia		 Landon, honey. There's nothing more.
landon		I don't mean about Jamie being sick. I mean about Jamie and me.
cynthia		Be with her when she wants.    Make sure she never feels alone.
landon		Mom, I'm not going anywhere.   Not yet anyway.
cynthia		When you are ready, I want you to feel free to go.
landon		 'I cry to you my Lord, my rock! Do not be deaf to me, for if you are silent, I shall go down to the pit like the rest. Hear my voice raised in petition as I cry to you for help, as I raise my hands, my Lord, toward your holy of holies.'
his pov		 A dozen flashlights in a big circle. Landon in the middle, working feverishly on the new telescope.
landon		 I have to finish it tonight.
landon		I've almost finished the rocker. Did she order mirrors?
landon		I'm using an old phonographic turntable.
landon		A chrome-plated brass pipe from a drain line.
landon		You know about this stuff?
landon		 I thought she built it herself.
landon		 I need to do this alone.
landon		A few minutes ago. I have to ask you something.
landon		We're going out.
jamie		Can I -- go out?
landon		You'll be fine for a few minutes.
jamie		 It's beautiful... Thank you.
jamie		I don't know what we'll be able to see... Help me stand.
landon		Wait a sec.
landon		We have five minutes.
landon		You love me?
landon		Will you do something for me?
jamie		Landon.    I can't even do for myself.
landon		But if you could, you would?
jamie		Yes.
landon		Will you marry me?
at altar		 The nurse rolls a wheelchair up as Jamie and her father near.  Applause breaks out as Jamie reaches Landon's side.  Jamie sits.   Exhausted.    119.  CONTINUED:  Landon kneels to be the same height as Jamie in her chair.  Pause.   Dr. Carter kneels.   Showing solidarity with his son.  Reverend Sullivan, standing, leans down to kiss Jamie's cheek. Trying to keep his emotions in check.
parsonage		 in a different season.      Winter.  UP the front steps and INTO...
landon		Yes.   You?
landon		 I'm -- I'm returning something.
landon		This belongs to you.
landon		She taught me -- everything.     She saved my life.
landon		Yes.
landon		I'm sorry she never got her miracle.
****Dialogues from script :Walking_Tall.txt****

walking tall		 Written by  Mort Briskin & David Klass
intro		 Inspired by a true story.  We home in on a boat coming in to shore. Off walks a man, he is carrying a backpack and wearing shades.
sheriff watkins		How ya doin'?
chris		Ok. When'd the mill close?
sheriff watkins		Ahh 3 years this August. If ya lookin for work you might wanna try Aberdeen, that's the closest mill work you're gonna find around here.
chris		That's too bad.
sheriff watkins		Nah just simple economics. Y'know we have a really nice casino here, the wild cherry. You wanna make some money maybe you wanna go on down there and try your luck at the blackjack tables.
chris		Nah I don't think so. Thanks.  Chris turns around and the sheriff notices his name on a bag.
sheriff watkins		You're Chris Vaughn?
sheriff watkins		Well hell, I know all about you Chris. I know your folks, I'm sheriff Stan Watkins.
chris		How ya doin.
sheriff watkins		Ralston get outta the car, you're lookin at a real soldier here pay some respect.
ralston		Welcome home soldier.
chris		Thanks.
sheriff watkins		Here Chris,  We'll give ya a ride up to your folks.
chris		Nah I'm fine thank you.
sheriff watkins		I insist.
chris		I'll walk.
sheriff watkins		Hey it's my pleasure.
chris		It's ok.
sheriff watkins		I won't take no for an answer . HEY! Get in the car.
sheriff watkins		Did I scare ya with that one?
chris		Lil bit.
sheriff watkins		Ya. Let's go.
sheriff watkins		You were gone a while huh?
chris		8 years. Harstad was sheriff back then.
sheriff watkins		Harstad, yeah. Sad story. About 5 months back he fell asleep at the wheel and uhhh... hit a tree. Good man, good man and a good sheriff.
chris		Thanks for the ride.
sheriff watkins		No problem, and uh Chris . It's election month... I'm your man.
michelle		Can I help you?
michelle		Lil' brother.. You come over here and gimme a hug.
michelle		You look great.
chris		What is this?
michelle		Hey, I couldn't let you be the only one looking good in uniform. Hey ma! Chris is here!
chris		What's with the tent? .
michelle		Oh, that's for Pete.
connie		Look at you!
chris		How ya doin!
connie		How long do we have ya for?
chris		For good. I'm home.
connie		Really? You're not kiddin.
chris		No.
chris		Hey dad.
dad		Welcome back.
connie		I wish you would have told me you were coming I would've cooked.
chris		This is great.
michelle		So what are you gonna do now that you're home?
chris		Well I was planning on working at the mill, your letters never mentioned that it was closed.
connie		We didn't wanna bother you with our problems when your father got laid off.
dad		I got my business, you saw the furniture outside.
connie		I substitute at the elementary school, Michelle pitches in. We try to keep things simple.
michelle		Pete! This is your Uncle Chris.
chris		Hey Pete.
michelle		Sit down, say hello. Last time he saw you you were barely walking.
pete		And now I'm camping.
michelle		I said you could sleep on the couch. It was Chris' room first.
chris		Your tent's gonna take on water. I could show ya how to rig it.
pete		Doesn't look like it's gonna rain to me Colonel.
michelle		Pete, cmon sit down, have somethin to eat.
chris		First of all I was a sergeant. I worked for a living.
pete		Did you ever smoke anybody?
connie		Pete!
michelle		Pete!
pete		Y'know, Papa's still got your gun locked up in the garage. Think you could teach me how to shoot?
chris		I figured that'd be scrap metal by now dad.
dad		No, I'm still hoping that you'll melt that thing down on your own.
chris		Sorry Pete.
pete		Whatever. I'm outta here Mom.
michelle		Okay, be back by ten.
pete		Ten thirty 
michelle		Ten!
dad		Remind you of anyone?
pete		Ok it rained. Happy?
chris		No. Why dontcha crash on the floor?
chris		Ok, I'll crash on the floor, you crash on the bed.
pete		uh uh. 
chris		Pete. . Keep ya dry.
pete		Did you really kill people?  Chris looks at him.
chris		Ray Ray! Ahaaa.
ray		Hello puddin'.
chris		How ya doin?
ray		I'm alright.
chris		What is that? 
ray		That's the lovemachine.
chris		Girls actually get in there?
chris		How ya been?
ray		Good. Clean livin.
chris		Wanna beer?
ray		No. Believe it or not I quit drinkin. I'll take a soda though.
chris		Here.
ray		Thanks man.
chris		Whoah. .
ray		Ya like that? When you left town it gave me the idea that I should do something with my life too so uhh I went down to Seattle, got a guitar and became all about music. And then pretty soon I was about music and drugs, n pretty soon I was basically just about drugs. Ended up doin 2 years for B+E.
chris		I'm sorry.
ray		Nahh, look at me now though right? I been clean and sober for 14 months, doing construction and renewing those supportive and healthy friendships from my past. Matter of fact I talked to the bastards, told em you were back and they asked me to politely remind you that kick off's in twenty minutes.
chris		Playin ball?
all		Let's play ball!
jimmy		Ray go deep go deep! .
chris		 When did that happen?
jimmy		His parents hadn't left him the mill more than 2 minutes before he shut it down.
chris		Why?  a voice shouts 'HEADS UP' Chris catches a fast ball thrown from behind. Jay steps out of his vehicle.
jay		Cause I opened my Casino.
chris		Still got a gut huh Jay?
jay		Still got your reflexes. What, you get tired of being all that you can be?
chris		I'm still all I can be.
jay		Really? I'll just have to see about that. What brings you home?
chris		I just wanna relax, catch my breath.
jay		You? Relax?
jay		Not today.
ray		If we score here we win right?
chris		Alright boys, last play. We need to put this to rest.
ray		Just give me the ball.
chris		You got it. On the first hut!
jay		Ok Vaughn, last chance.
jay		That's game!
opponent		 Sorry about that.
chris		That's cool man.
jay		Welcome home.
chris		Good to be back.
jay		See ya round. Hey, if you're not doing anythin later on you could come by the casino. I'll introduce ya to some nice girls, drinks are on me. Whaddya say?
chris		See ya tonight.
jay		Cool.
pete		Hey Sarge, good game. Maybe next time.
chris		Hold up. Maybe next time I won't see you with the bleachers smoking weed.
ray		Welcome home buddy.
chris		Don't you have to be native american to own a casino?
jimmy		Oh Hamilton's one sixteenth black man now.
friend 2		Just so you guys know, I'm gonna triple my money tonight.
friend 3		Yea, like last time. Wound up selling your body for bus fare.
friend 4		He had to walk!
chris		Nobody's gonna have any problems finding this place.
ray		It's the subtle attention to aesthetics that I find most impressive, blends in with the mountains SO nicely.
friend		Not bad huh?
chris		Not bad.
ray		Isn't it wonderful? All your gambling needs under one great big roof. You got your ATM machine, tellers to cash your paycheck, and when you're here you don't gotta worry about those lil things like child support, rent, the laws of mathematical probability.
worker		Gentlemen, Mr Hamilton would like to invite you to the VIP lounge.
ray		Oh, 'Mister' Hamilton.
jay		Heyyy, the dream team!
chris		Nice place.
jay		Yeah well. Welcome to my world. Look tonight, all the drinks are on the house. If you need a line of credit, say how much. And if you need a lil female companionship... done. Alright? Have a good time.
chris		Where you goin?
jay		Don't you worry about me, I've got a few things to do. Enjoy.
ray		Just remember, nothin in here's free. C'mon, this place is nothin but fake boobs and real assholes if ya ask me. Just water for me.
friends		Here's to you Chris.  They all down some drinks. They lead Chris down a corridor.
friend		Don't say we never did nothin' for ya!
friend 2		Don't worry, everybody's a lil scared the first time. Get in there, sit back and enjoy.
friend 2		If you're not back by morning we'll send a search party for you.
chris		Bye! No drinking.  His friends leave, closing the door behind them.  A screen goes up and a striptease begins. The lady is dressed in the style of a firewoman and has a pole in the center of the stage. She dances around the pole and removes clothes.
stripper		So you from here or just visiting.
chris		Lil of both, I grew up here.
stripper		So you've seen all the old faces.
chris		Could say that.
stripper		Your voice sounds very familiar.
stripper		Chris...
chris		Deni..
friend 1		Look who's back.
friend 2		So, good surprise?
friend 1		Told you it was better than gambling. You met Candy? 
chris		Hey Candy.  Let's go.
croupier		6! Easy 6 for a win!
jimmy		 We're gettin killed out here. I need you to put 200 down for the bet.
chris		No, hell no.
friend 3		Look at them .
chris		Ok.
croupier		Five hundred on 6?
jimmy		Yes, I'm in. Boom! Gimme some dice.
chris		Jimmy. Don't roll. Gimme the dice.
chris		 You're good, but I saw it.
croupier		Saw what?
chris		I saw the switch.
croupier		Hey this is a clean game asshole.
chris		Yea?
croupier		Yea.
chris		Let's see about that.
chris		Bet you I'll roll a seven.
croupier		It's not your roll sir. SIR! It's not your roll. Call security.
chris		Put your bets down on the pass line. These dice are comin up seven.
jimmy		Chris, why don't we just let it go?
chris		No, we gonna let it ride Jimmy. The dice are comin up seven.
croupier		It's not your roll sir.
commissioner		No folks, no payout.
chris		 Why don't you just take care of that bet and we're even.
croupier		Well I would but it wasn't a legitimate bet, you're not the shooter. It's not your  ROLL sir.
security guy		Is there a problem?
chris		Yea, the problem is your dice are loaded. Does your boss know about this? Just gimme my money.
jimmy		Come on, let's go! let's go!  More security men appear, one of them knocks Jimmy out. A whole fight breaks out, Ray gets knocked out. Chris beats off several security men before taking an electric shock to the neck and a baton to the face. Chris wakes up on a table under a light.
dochris		 Folks, he's pretty banged up, inside and out. Whoever did this left him for dead. A lesser man wouldn't have survived.
sheriff watkins		I'm gonna need a statement from him Doctor.
dochris		He's in no condition to give you one.
sheriff watkins		I'll also need a copy of your write-up along with toxicoloy, blood alcohol level and so on.
michelle		What are you talkin about Stan?
sheriff watkins		I'm just tryin to get some facts here.
michelle		Oh come on you need to be out arresting whoever tried to kill my brother not testing his BLOOD.
sheriff watkins		I'm just doing my job Michelle. Ok? I understand how you feel. But we still don't know yet who started all of this.
connie		Well it wasn't Chris.
dad		Just find out who did this to him Stan.
sheriff watkins		I'll do my best Mr Vaughn. I really will. In the meantime I have to file a full report. You lemme know when I can talk to him.
sheriff watkins		Thank you.
dochris		He's gonna be fine Michelle.
michelle		Thanks.
nurse		BEAUTIFUL flowers!
ray		Thank you, they're for my best friend.
ray		Hey sarge, so much for our VIP... status. Don't they teach you any fighting skills in the army.
chris		How did you do?
ray		Not good. But I tell you, that guy was feelin me this morning.
ray		You okay?
chris		Some homecoming hey.
ray		I don't know if you've noticed but this aint exactly home any more.
pete		There's some old crutches in the garage.
dad		Changed the plugs a while back.
chris		Appreciate that Dad.
dad		I might've had serious issues with your career choice but just didn't seem fair to take it out on an innocent truck. Where you headin?
chris		I was goin into town to get some supplies. Wanna come?
dad		Let's go.
dad		Ya whole life, all you wanted to do was get outta here. What made you come back.
chris		You gonna think I'm crazy. I been thinking about the mill. When I was a kid goin to visit you at work, the smell of that fresh-cut cedar. You remember that smell.
dad		Mmm I remember a lotta nice things before the mill closed.
chris		When did they go outta business? .
dad		Closed about six months ago. There's a home depot about fifteen minutes up the road.
chris		And that? 
dad		Don't ask.  They laugh.
jay		Hey. First of all I wanna say thanks.
chris		For what?
jay		He's been fired, and his gaming permit's been pulled. I don't know how my security cameras didn't catch that.
chris		They miss a lot at your place don't they Jay.
jay		Look Chris I hate seein ya like this.
chris		Your boys did it.
jay		Wait wait... so they got a little rough, they were a bit edgy. Understandably. You don't know what kind of assholes they have to put up with on a daily basis. Look, they've been reprimanded. They say you went nuts man. I'm sorry. I know the proper term vets use is post traumatic stress.
chris		What the fuck are you talking about?
jay		Whatever it was, you tore my place apart and it wasn't easy for me to get my guys agree not to press charges. Look Chris, if you had a problem... shouldn't you have come to me? Look, I wanna bring you inside. Chris I wanna make you head of security. Whaddya say?
chris		No.
jay		Ah well. I guess you probably need time to think about it. This is for you. It's a little something to help you get... Y'know..
jay		Come on man, don't be like that. I came all the way out here to your house just to see you get back on your feet.
chris		I'm goin to the sheriff.
jay		I'm sorry you feel that way. I'll see ya round Chris.
chris		Excuse me.
chris		Excuse me.
sheriff watkins		Well hey Chris. Good to see you up and about, you're lookin spiffy.
chris		I'm here to press charges.
sheriff watkins		Well this isn't about that incident at the casino a while back is it?
chris		Yea, it is.
sheriff watkins		Cause that matter's closed.
chris		Did you look into it?
sheriff watkins		They did an internal investigation. That's good enough for me.
chris		An internal investigation.
sheriff watkins		Chris, I know you're familiar with the term 'no fly zone'. Hmm? Cause that's what the casino is. Since the mill closed down that casino is the main source of revenue in this town. So, case closed basically. I'll see ya.
chris		I'm not gonna let this stand.
sheriff watkins		Excuse me? What did you say to me?
chris		I said I'm not gonna let this stand.
sheriff watkins		You're lucky to be alive right now, that's all you need to be concentrating on. This is my town ok, I'm the sheriff here. I'll tell you what will stand, not the other way around. Now please get out of my building.
deni		Hey.
chris		Hey.
deni		This belongs to you.
chris		I appreciate that, I thought this was history.
deni		Coulda left it in the trash but I...
connie		Deni? Nice to see you dear.
deni		Hi Mrs Vaughn.
chris		Can I talk to you outside for a second. Mom I'll be right back.
deni		How you been?
chris		Been better.
deni		Talked to the sheriff yet?
chris		Well I went down to the police station and I talked to somebody with a badge. Sure as hell didn't seem like much of a sheriff.
deni		He's up for re-election you know. Maybe you could take his job.
chris		Somebody ought to. How about you?
deni		Sunshine and pine trees. Been readin these books, teach you how to cultivate happiness. Books on the future, go with the flow, that sorta thing.
chris		Is it workin?
deni		I have my moments.
chris		So the casino huh?
deni		Yep. Been there almost a year.
chris		Treatin you good?
deni		Lot better than it treated you.
chris		I like that. Jay Hamilton's done well for himself hasn't he.
deni		Yea, he's a real go-getter that one.
chris		Must be. I heard he got you.
deni		Lasted about 8 minutes, a long long time ago.
chris		You still work for him though.
deni		Rent's gotta be paid Chris.
chris		Suppose so.
deni		Hope to see you around.
chris		Do you?
chris		Thanks for the jacket.
connie		And where is he?
michelle		It's ok mom he's stabilised.  It was close. Crystal Meth.
pete		I'm sorry. I never did it before.
kid		It's true. We mighta kinda pushed him into it.
chris		Where'd you get the drugs?
kid		I'm not really sure...
chris		Stop. Where?
kid		From the security guys workin at the casino.
connie		Chris, wait. Call the police.
chris		No, that won't do any good.
dad		Is Pete ok?
chris		He'll be fine.
dad		What are you doin?
dad		Aw Chris not like this. Chris listen to me. If you go outta here with that gun, they're gonna.. ne... Chris!
jay		Guess that changes our relationship a bit huh?
sheriff watkins		You should NOT have come looking for trouble. Keep your hands up, get out of the vehicle now Chris! NOW!
lawyer		I advise you to give this offer more than a little serious thought. If you go to trial you stand to do 18 years. This is a sweet plea, normally they wouldn't even put it on the table but your military record can't be ignored. Three months home arrest, some community service. Pretty generous offer Chris.
chris		But I'd have to plead guilty.
lawyer		Look at it from the other side. There's over a dozen witnesses, none of em are gonna paint a very flattering picture.
worker		He started bustin up the machines...
girl		There was a gunshot..
worker		Went crazy...
girl		Complete psychopath.
chris		They're only offering me this deal just to keep me quiet.
lawyer		Well I still say you should take it.
chris		I wasn't wrong. And I won't say I was.
casino guard		Our job is to keep order. But there was no chance of that. Me and my men we were just tryin to control him. He was highly trained, violent, very dangerous person.
prosecutor		So dangerous, so violent, so highly trained that he despatched six of the casino staff single handedly. His weapon of choice a simple piece of cedar. Which in his hand became a devastating force with one aim, to hurt people, destroy property.
worker		He went directly for everything. He just came in and took over the place.
prosecutor		You said he broke your arm.
worker		Yea that's correct, my right forearm. Both bones with a single shot. It was crazy.
prosecutor		Did he give you any kind of advanced warning? A chance to defend yourself.
prosecutor		So from what you saw, it seemed like he had some kinda purpose?
worker		I was emptyin machines when Mr Vaugh came in and started swingin.
girl		I was tryin to get outta there.
judge		Mr Crow, you may present your client's case.
chris		 You're fired.
chris		Your honor, I'd like to plead my own case.
judge		Order, order. Mr Vaughn, if you choose to represent yourself and not be represented by legal counsel you realise that you can't then claim a mistrial on that basis.
chris		Yes I do.
judge		Very well Mr Vaughn.
chris		I don't deny anything that was said here today.
judge		Does that mean you're changing your plea to guilty?
chris		I'm not guilty of anything. Except standing up for myself when the law wouldn't.
opposition		Objection. He's trying to introduce prior events your honor.
judge		Sustained. Mr Vaughn stay on point.
chris		I grew up in this town. People used to walk tall in this town, they wouldn't have traded the mill for a crooked casino.
judge		Mr Vaughn we're not here to listen to civic speeches.
chris		And they wouldn't have stood around while drugs were being sold to kids.
opposition		Objection.
judge		Sustained. Mr Vaughn you're close to being held in contempt.
chris		I was justified in what I did, and if you acquit me of these charges I'm gonna run for sheriff. And if elected, I'm gonna fix this town.
judge		Order, order. Mr Vaughn you are now charged with contempt.
chris		And I will make sure that THIS  never happens to anyone again without punishing those who did it.
judge		I order the jury to ignore what they have just seen. Mr Vaughn take your seat. Order! Order!
judge		Mr Forman, has the jury reached a verdict?
forman		We have your honor.
judge		Will the defendant please rise.
forman		We find the defendant Chris Vaughn not guilty.
chris		This is mine.
watkins		Sheriff.
chris		Watkins.
watkins		Well you won the election, congratulations. We do have a tradition of professional courtesy up here, and I can personally vouch for each and every one of these men. They're good deputies.
chris		You're all fired.
jay		Hey Chris.
chris		License and registration please.
jay		You're joking right?
chris		License and registration.
jay		What's the problem sheriff?
chris		You. And the drugs you're pedalling out of your casino.
jay		Oh. Only thing that's going on in my casino right now is reconstruction. You took care of that.
chris		Yea that's right and I plan on taking care of everything else too.
jay		If you can, try to think this through. A casino is a license to print money. Why would I jeopardise that by selling drugs?
chris		Cause you owned the town Jay. It's changed now.
jay		Really? See the only thing that I think has changed around here is that every morning you get to wake up and put on that nifty lil badge. But underneath that badge is the same guy that couldn't make it playing college football, apparently couldn't make it in the army and not gonna make it as a cop.
chris		Is that right?
jay		Yea, and if you push too hard you're gonna be a man who doesn't live to see
jay		Thanks sheriff.
chris		Sir get your tail lights fixed, it's your last warning.
jay		What's wrong with my tail lights?  Chris smashes up the back end of Jay's car with his trusty piece of cedar wood.
chris		They're broken.
ray		Mornin sheriff.
chris		Mornin deputy.
ray		No, nope, no. Come on man you know I hate cops. You been sheriff 2 minutes and I'm already startin to hate you. I'm a convicted felon.
chris		I got a lil pull around here.
ray		Oh now you're a CROOKED cop doing favours for friends. That's how it starts. See next thing you know you'll be taking bribes, setting up roadblocks, frisking dudes crotches.
chris		Are you done? Ray I need your help.
ray		Oh don't do that.
chris		I need you to take me to drugs school.
ray		I get to wear a uniform?  A montage ensues, with Chris and Ray busting various drug dealers.
chris		You're SURE you're not carrying anything.
booth		I don't have shit.
chris		Officer.
ray		Yeah.
chris		Search him.
ray		Oh. Spread your legs, arms down. Been workin out? Nothin there. Ohhhh somebody needs a BATH!
booth		Now you read me my rights and take me in. And I call my lawyer.
ray		K. I have a hunch there may be somethin else in here .
chris		Could be.  Music plays while the two chop up the dealer's car into pieces while laughing.
ray		He's clean. Guess we gotta move to plan B.
booth		Screw you, I do have a bit of information for you. It's not just me actually, there's a whole lotta people in on this one.
chris		Spit it out.
booth		You're gonna get hurt.
dad		Why does it always have to be your fight?
chris		You might need this.
dad		No. I put my guns down a long time ago.
chris		You're just being stubborn.
dad		You and me both boy. Chris, listen. You be careful.
chris		I will.
ray		Please step away from the vehicle. Now Mr Booth are you still upset over that body cavity search? WOOOOOOOO! I forgot, you got no vehicle. Please disperse, there is nothing to s...
chris		Can I talk to you?
ray		Yeah.
chris		Over here?
ray		Sure.
chris		I'm gonna stay with him tonight. I need you to take care of my parent's place.
ray		You think they're gonna take it that far?
ray		I'm with you man, I'll check in later.
chris		Kay.
deni		Don't shoot.
chris		Hey
deni		Hi. How's the food around here? Brought you special treats. Salmon, Fried Chicken, Potato Salad. You got cups?
chris		Don't you have to work tonight?
deni		Hmm I quit. I figured you know, you were making some changes around here, I could make a few myself.
ray		Who's that?
pete		It's Pete. Want something to eat?
ray		No I'm good man.
chris		I gotta get a bigger bed.
deni		No, no you don't.
jay		Do it.
deni		I'm hungry.
chris		Got leftovers...
deni		Mm mmm, I want pancakes, and eggs, and bacon.
booth		WOOOOOOOOOOOO! I told you Vaughn! Uh ohhhh. Who needs to step away from the vehicle now Vaughn? Truck for truck baby, that's right, truck for a truck.
chris		 Get down!
ray		Pete, somethin's burnin.
chris		Take that and get in there.  Chris gives Deni a pistol.
ray		Pete?
chris		 Come here.
chris		When I say 'now' start shooting, over there. Stay low.
booth		Vaughn you gotta get me outta here!
dad		I know who you are.
gunman		Oh yeah?
gunman		 Burke?
gunman 2		Check it out.
booth		C'mon! Get me outta here man!
chris		What's it worth to you? Where's the lab?
booth		Screw you!
booth		Ok! Ok! Hamilton's operation is at the mill ok! It's at the mill now get me outta here.
ray		Drop it!
chris		Stay down!
michelle		Ray!
gunman 2		Stay down!
ray		 Hey.. you okay?
upstairs		 Gunman 2 looks away for a second and Michelle kicks him down the stairs. As he tumbles down Ray reloads his shotgun. The two begin firing at each other, taking cover behind the furniture.
watkins		Tried to warn ya Chris. Didn't want this to happen.
watkins		Come get some! WOOOOOOOOO!
chris		Deni! Now!
chris		Deni.... Deni.  Chris climbs out of the hole and they hug.
ray		I'm sorry!  Chris helps Ray over to a chair, Ray has taken a shot to the leg.
gunman		You stabbed me... with a potato peeler??
chris		You gonna be ok?  Dad nods.
jay		Hey Chris.
chris		Get up Jay.
jay		Just a sec. Remember we used to play hide n seek up here?
jay		That was my favourite sound.
chris		Get up!
jay		Look... Chris... just...
jay		You wanna know what my new favourite sound's gonna be? The sound of you screaming like a little bitch.
chris		You're right Jay, this does change our relationship. This is my town, you're under arrest.
chris		That oughta do it. WHAT are you doin?
ray		Gettin some souvenirs, I'm gonna miss the place!
chris		That's how it starts. Next you'll be accepting bribes, setting speed traps all over town, cuttin up trucks. Not to mention the cavity searches.
ray		Speakin of which, do you think Jay's got a casino in the pen?
chris		Could be.
ray		Runnin the shower tower with the felons. He's probably blowin on somebody's dice right now.
ray		That's lunch.
chris		Let's go pick my old man and grab somethin to eat.
ray		I'm with ya buddy.
****Dialogues from script :Wall-E.txt****

wall-e		[Hums POYSC]
eve		[Giggles]
eve		 [Identify yourself.]
eve		 [Repeat. Identify yourself.]
eve		 [So what's your story?]
eve		 [Directive?]
eve		 Directive?
eve		Directive?
eve		Directive?
eve		Classified.
eve		Name?
eve		 Wwww-aaaa-leee...
eve		Wall-E.  Eve.
eve		 Eve.
eve		Eeeve. Eeeve.
eve		Eve.
eve		 [Hey watch it! Don't come any closer!]
eve		Wall-E? Wall-E?
wall-e		[defeated sigh]
john		Hey, Drink-bot.
john		Here, take the cup. Take the cup -- Whoa!
john		Stewards? Hello? Uhh, help.
steward		Please remain stationary. A service-bot will be here to assist you momentarily.
john		Uhh...Hey! What's going on?
john		Uhh... John.
wall-e		Ee-vah?
john		Uh no, John.
wall-e		Ee-vah!
john		 Bye...Wall-E.
nanny-bot		"A"! "A" is for "Axiom", your home sweet home. "B"! "B" is for "Buy N Large", your very best friend...
monorail passengers		Oooohh...
mary		Date?!  Don't get me started! Every holo-date I've been on has been a virtual disaster! If I could just meet one who wasn't so superficial. There are no good men out there!...
mary		 Huh... ?
wall-e		Wall-E.
mary		 M-mary.
wall-e		Ee-vah.
mary		Huh? Oh, uh, sure go ahead.
wall-e		Ee-vah...
poolside passenger		 Shade.
mary		I didn't know we had a pool!
autopilot		Captain. You are needed on the bridge.
captain		-- All hands on deck!!
autopilot		Sir --
captain		Coffee.
autopilot		Sir, the annual --
captain		Protocol, Auto. First things first.  Computer, status report.
autopilot		Captain...
captain		Okay, Auto.
autopilot		Sir, the annual reconnaissance has --
captain		12:30?!  Auto, why didn't you wake me for the morning announcements?
captain		Honestly, it's the one thing I get to do on this ship.
autopilot		Probe One has returned positive.
captain		Positive?
captain		But...no probe's ever come back positive...  ...before.
captain		 Home? W-w-we're going back?
captain		We have a jogging track?
captain		 Manuel, relay instructions. Manuel?
captain		Wow... Will you look at that?
eve		Wall-E?!
eve		 [Wall-E, what are you doing here?! You can't be here! You're going to get me in trouble!...]
wall-e		 Ee-vah...
captain		 Well, let's open her up. Step One. Voice command, "Confirm Acquisition."
ship's computer		Confirm Acquisition.
ship's computer		Voice authorization required.
captain		...Uh...
ship's computer		Accepted.
captain		Where's the thingie?
autopilot		Plant.
captain		Plant. Right. Right. Where is it?  Maybe we missed a step. Show me how you change the text again...
eve		Plant! Wall-E...  Wall-E!
eve		 [Find it!] PLANT!
autopilot		Contains no specimen. Probe's memory is faulty.
captain		So, then...we're NOT going to Earth?
autopilot		 Negative.
captain		So, uh, I guess things go back to normal, huh?
autopilot		Correct, Captain.
captain		 Well, false alarm!
captain		The probe must be defective. Gopher, send her to the Repair Ward.
captain		Have them run diagnostics on her. Make sure she's not malfunctioning -- EEYAH!!
captain		Have "Wall-E" cleaned.
captain		Analyze.
ship's computer		Analysis: foreign contaminant. Substance is a three phase system composed of various combinations of naturally derived solids. Subject is most commonly referred to as "soil", "dirt", or "earth".
captain		Earth?
captain		Define "Earth"...
ship's computer		"Earth" - the surface of the world as distinct from the sky or sea.
captain		Wow... Define "sea".
ship's computer		"Sea"...
ship's computer		...an expanse of salt water that covers most of the Earth's surface and surrounds its land masses...
eve		 Wall-E...
eve		WALL-E!
eve		WALL-E!
steward		Halt.
eve		 Wall-E!
ship's computer		Caution: Rogue robots...Caution: Rogue robots...
stewards		Halt. Halt.
eve		Earth.
eve		Earth.
eve		Directive.
eve		 Wall-E.
eve		 Wall-E.
eve		 Plant!
eve		 Wall-E?
eve		 Wall-E!
ship's computer		Ten, nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two...
eve		No, no, no...
eve		Wall-E! 
eve		 [Come on. Time's a wastin'.]
mary		 So many stars.
mary		Oooh...  Hey, that's what's his name --
john		Hey! What the --
mary		Look! Look at THAT!
john		 Wha...huh?
john		Hey... I know that guy! It's, uh...  Wall-E! Hey Wall-E! It's your buddy, John!
mary		Right, Wall-E! Hi Wall-E!
john		Hi.
mary		Hi.
captain		Auto! Earth is amazing!  These are called "farms". Humans would put seeds in the ground, pour water on them, and they'd grow food, like, pizza --
autopilot		Good night, Captain.
captain		Psst! Computer.  Define "dancing".
john		Hey now. Stop that...
mary		Make me .
john		I didn't know we had a pool.
wall-e		E-vah --
eve		 [Stop it! They'll hear us!]
eve		Directive.
captain		[Rocket noises] Prepare for landing... [Landing noises] We're here everybody! Yeah, Captain! [crowd cheers] Captain we're home! It's so beautiful! [crowd cheers]...No it's nothing. I was pleased to do it. It's all about you people --
captain		 How...? How'd you find it?!
captain		We can go back home...for the first time!  What's it like now?
captain		No, no! Don't tell me! I want to see for myself!
captain		Wait...that doesn't look like Earth... Where's the blue sky...
captain		...Where's the grass?
captain		...I know that song...  And they're... dancing. Yes, dancing!
captain		...You made it somehow, eh little guy? You didn't give up, did you?
captain		 Wait a minute.
eve		 Wall-E...
wall-e		EE-VAHH?!
captain		There you go little guy. You came a long way for a drink of water... Just needed someone to look after you, that's all --
captain		 We have to go back.
captain		Auto, come down here!
captain		Auto, Eve found the plant. Fire up the Holo-detector.
autopilot		Not necessary, Captain. You may give it to me.
captain		 You know what? I should do it myself.
autopilot		Captain!
autopilot		Sir, I insist you give me the plant.
captain		Auto, get out of my way.
autopilot		Sir, we cannot go home.
captain		What are you talking about? Why not?
autopilot		That is classified. Captain, give me the plant.
captain		 What do you mean, "classified"? You don't keep secrets from the Captain!
autopilot		Give me the plant.
captain		Tell me what's classified!
autopilot		The plant.
captain		Tell me, Auto! That's an order!
autopilot		Aye-aye, sir.
captain		Unsustainable? What?
captain		 Easier?
autopilot		Now, the plant.
captain		No, wait a minute. Computer, when was that message sent to the Axiom?
captain		That's -- that's nearly 700 years ago!! Auto, things have changed! We've got to go back!
autopilot		Sir, orders are: "Do not return to Earth".
captain		But life is sustainable now! Look at this plant, green and growing! It's living proof he was wrong.
autopilot		Irrelevant, Captain.
captain		What?! It's completely relevant!  Out there is our home! Home, Auto! And it's in trouble! I can't just sit here and...and...do nothing! That's all I've done! That's all anyone on this blasted ship has ever done...NOTHING!!
autopilot		On the Axiom you will survive.
captain		I DON'T WANT TO SURVIVE! I WANT TO LIVE!
autopilot		Must follow my directive.
captain		DAAAARGH!!
captain		I'm the Captain of the Axiom. We are going home today!
captain		Gopher?
captain		Hey! That's my plant. This is mutiny!  Eve, arrest him!
captain		Eve, you are to put this plant straight in the Holo-detector.
captain		No!
eve		 [Oh no!]
wall-e		Ee-vah?
captain & eve		WALL-E!!
wall-e		 [Hey, the plant.]
autopilot		Give me the plant.
autopilot		All communications are terminated. You are confined to quarters.
captain		NO! MUTINY! MUTINY! MUTINEEEEE!!
eve		Wall-E!
eve		Wall-E!
eve		Wall-E!
eve		 Wall-E...
wall-e		 Wall-E.
m-o		M-O.
m-o		M-O.
eve		Directive.
wall-e		 Errr.....
eve		Earth?
wall-e		Earth.
eve		Earth! Earth!
wall-e		M-O?
m-o		 Wall-E!
steward		Wrong.
steward		Please hold. We are currently having technical difficul -- !
auto		Not possible.
captain		 Mutinyyy...Mute...neee...This is your last chance...Auto...You hear me?...Stupid...wheel...
captain		The plant!
captain		 We'll see who's powerless now.
captain		Ah-Ha!
stewards		Halt.
auto		Not possible.
auto		No.
captain		Ha ha!
auto		Captain? Captain...?
auto		Let go. Let go.
captain		What too heavy for ya, huh?!
captain		You're not getting away from me, one-eye! -- OOF! -- Is that all you got?!
captain		That's it!...A little closer! Must..press...button.
captain		Gotcha! Ha ha!
captain		 Ladies and Gentlemen! This is your Captain speaking! We're having a slight malfunction with the Autopilot! Please remain calm!
auto		Enough.
mary		John, get ready to have some kids!
mary		 LOOK OUT!
auto		No.
captain		NO!!
captain		 Auto, you are relieved of duty.
auto		Noo --
eve		PLANT! PLANT!
eve		No! WALL-E!!
mary		Oh no! Wall-E...
ship's computer		Nine, eight, seven, six, five, four, three, two, one, zero.
eve		 Wall-E...
eve		 Eve!
eve		 [Here, look at these.]
eve		 Wall-E?
eve		 [I know!]
eve		 No.
eve		Wall-E...Wall-E! WALL-E!
eve		[Hums IOTAM]
eve		Wall-E!
captain		This is called "farming"! You kids are going to grow all kinds of plants: vegetable plants, pizza plants!  Ahh, it's good to be home...
****Dialogues from script :Wall_Street.txt****

bud		Why Fox? Why didn't you buy... schmuck?
carolyn		How you doing Buddy?
bud		Great Carolyn, doing any better would be a sin...
bud		Morning, Dan. What's looking good today?
steeples		If I know I wouldn't be in this business. Get out while you're young, kid. I came here one day, I sat down, and look at me now.
bud		...hey Chuckie, how's the woman- slayer?
charlie		...still looking for the right 18 year old wife, how you doing, pal?
bud		...if I had your looks, better.
charlie		 ...takes years of genetics, pal, and a Yale education... and the right tailor.
bud		...not that you learned anything, Chunk.
bud		I gotta feeling we're going to make a killing today, Marv.
bud		Joke about it. I was up all night charting these stocks. You want to see this or what?
marv		 Okay, I'm giving this to you and you alone, 'cause I feel sorry for you. Take the Knicks against the Bullets, and my pick of the day -- Duke to beat the spread against Wake Forest.
bud		Thanks, Marv, with that I might be able to qualify for welfare.
bud		 You got a look in your eye, Mr. Mannheim... You got something for the small fry...
mannheim		Jesus, can't make a buck in this market, country's going to hell faster than when that sonofabitch Roosevelt was around... too much cheap money sloshing around the world. The biggest mistake we ever made was letting Nixon get off the gold standard. Putney Drug--you boys might want to have a look at it.
marv		Take 5 years for that company to turn around.
mannheim		...but they got a good new drug. Stick to the fundamentals, that's how IBM and Hilton were built...good things sometimes take time.
lynch		Attention. Please. Office Production is down ten percent this week. I recommend that you all go through your clients' investments for any portfolio adjustments. And don't forget -- double commissions today on our 'A' or better bond funds.  Especially you rookies. Also, remember, the sales contest ends tomorrow.
bud		And they're off and running!
brokers		Here's a hot lead... Have I got one for you.... sell ... dump it all!! ... 500 at an eighth, an eighth!... July fifties. April thirties...how bout those Decembers? You see where they're going? ... Morgan is selling a billion one at the close. Yeah. That's right, they're selling all over the place... we're still long on the treasuries -- $110 million. What about the Japs? ...Where am I?  We gotta lot of lights here! Let's pick 'em up.
bud		 Jack, take 50 Gulf, with a 3/8 top, forget the hundred. What about Delroy? I can go long at 23, let's go long...Conwest Air -- let me check it...
marv		Dr. Beltzer has to have his information this minute! It concerns his future!
bud		Hey Howard, I thought you were a gentleman. Sure it's gone down a little bit, but you got the tip from your printer, I didn't... Yeah you did. That's what you said.  No, he's out right now.
bud		 ... That's what you told us to say.
lynch		Give me that phone.  Yes, sir, this is the manager. What seems to be the problem?
marv		 What?... Well, how was I to know you were in surgery? What am I Marvin the mind reader here?
bud		He's lying.
lynch		Okay, sir. I'll discuss this with the broker and I'll get back to you. You're welcome.
lynch		If I'm closing out this account. If he doesn't pay for it tomorrow, you pay for it.
bud		Mr. Lynch, I swear to you, he's lying!
lynch		Fox, you're making more problems than you are sales.
bud		I don't think you're being fair, sir. You assigned me this guy, and you know he's got a history...
lynch		Somebody has to pay for that error. And it's not me.
marv		 Buddy, buddy, buddy; little trouble, huh, today.
bud		 Howard the Jerk reneged on me. I've got to cover his loss to the tune of about seven grand! I'm tapped out man, American Express got a hit man looking for me.
marv		Hey, things could be worse. It could've been my money. Let me help you out, rookie.
bud		Thanks Marv, I'll make it good to you.  You know what my dream is? One day to be on the other end of that phone...
marv		Just put me on the institutional side of the room where the real cheesecake is. You forgetting something?
bud		Hello, Natalie -- guess who? That's right, and you know everyday I say to myself, today could be the day... So what do you say... will you marry me? Then please can you get me through to Mr. Gekko?
marv		 It concerns his future!
bud		Of course he's busy, and so am I. Five minutes. That's all I'm asking. I know that if he could only hear what I have to say... it would change his life.
natalie		Mr. Fox, I've told you before, I'm sure you're a good broker, but our traders talk to the brokers, Mr. Gekko only deals with investment bankers. Yes, I shall give him your message ...
charlie		Buddy boy, how ya doing?
bud		Great Charlie, any better it'd be a sin.
amato		 I hear all you guys on Wall Street are millionaires, when you gonna make us rich?
bud		Gotta open an account to win the lottery, Dominick. Give me 15,000, you'll have a condo in Florida next Christmas.
carl		... sure and we'll own the airline. If he makes anybody rich, let him make himself rich, so's he can pay off his school loans.
bud		... nice to see you in such a good mood Dad, what'd Mom do, give you fish for dinner? ... You're smoking too much, how many times do you gotta go to the hospital to ...
carl		...leave me alone willya. Only thing makes me feel good anymore. Spaghetti. She makes lousy spaghetti...
bud		It's called pasta now Dad, spaghetti's out of date.
carl		... so am I. Whaddaya want, a beer?  Hey Billie, bring another for the kid, he looks good, doesn't he?
carl		... looks like you grown another inch... but you don't look so hot, getting bags under your eyes, starting to look old like me.
bud		Ah, I had a tough day. Some jerk D.K'd me and I gotta cover his loss.
carl		Speak English will ya.
bud		D.K. -- didn't know -- who I was when the options he bought took a bath. He reneged on me.
carl		 I told you not to go into that racket. You could've been a doctor or a lawyer,
bud		Coulda been a contender.
bud		 Look Dad, I'm not a salesman. How many times I gotta tell you I'm an account executive, and pretty soon I'm going to the investment banking side of the firm.
carl		You get on the phone and ask strangers for their money, right? You're a salesman.
bud		 Dad, it takes time. You gotta build a customer list. I'm doing it. I could make more money in one year as a broker than five years at the airline.
carl		I don't get it, you get a scholarship to NYU, you get 35,000 the first year, and 50 last year, where the hell is it?
bud		50 K don't get you to first base in the Big Apple, Dad, not any more. I pay 40% in taxes, I got a rent of 15,000, I got school loans, car loans, food, park my car costs me 3 bills a month, I need good suits, that's $500 a pop, shoes...
carl		So come home and live rent free, 'stead of that cockroach palace you live in. $50,000 Jesus Christ, the world is off its rocker. I made $37,000 last year and you...
bud		It's Queens, Dad and a 5% mortgage and you rent the top room--I gotta live in Manhattan to be a player, Dad. There's no nobility in poverty anymore, y'know. One day you're going to be proud of me, you'll see... 
carl		 It's yourself you've got to be proud of, Huckleberry, how much ya need?
bud		 Can you spare three hundred? Pay you back next month, promise.
carl		...Got a 100 on me, you...
bud		 Not in here Dad... please. Later.
carl		... it adds up Buddy, 300 here, 200 there. Your brother never...  ...well, I always said money is something you need in case you don't die tomorrow...
bud		 How's Mom?
carl		 ...same, pain in the ass, god bless her, talks too much... gonna take her to Florida next month... west coast, near Tampa, like to get out for good, but can't afford it.
bud		...Work okay?
carl		 ...this drug testing is driving my guys nuts. I got flagged for my blood pressure pills. The only good news is, we just met with the comptroller over some union stuff...'member that crash last summer? and the investigation? Well, the FAA is gonna rule it was a manufacturing flaw in the door latch mechanism. I kept telling 'em it wasn't maintenance, it was those goddamn greedy manufacturers out in Cincinnati. And I was right.
bud		That's great Dad.
carl		Damn right, it gets us out from under suspension. We'll get those new routes to Pittsburgh and Boston and the equipment we need. We're gonna compete with the big boys now.
bud		 Hey to Bluestar, as your broker all I can advise is hold on to that stock Dad...
bud		You sure about this FAA announcement?
carl		About what?
bud		The FAA announcement.
carl		Sure I'm sure. Buddy, you got that mischievous look in your eyes. You used to smile just like that when you were a baby sleeping, just like that.
reception		 ... I have a delivery here for Mr. Gekko. It's a personal item and the gentleman says you have to sign for it.
natalie		 ...all right, send him in...
bud		Hello, Natalie, you recognize the voice? I'll give you a hint, you're thinking seriously about marrying me...
natalie		 What are you doing here?
bud		...And you're even lovelier than I pictured. I brought a birthday present for Mr. Gekko.
natalie		First of all, Mr. Fox, you can't just come barging in here. And what makes you think it's his birthday?
bud		It's in the bible, see. You better go buy him a present. Please, Natalie. Let me give him the gift; Cuban cigars--Davidoff, his favorite and hard to get.
natalie		 Stay here, I'll see what I can do.
natalie		Wait outside.
natalie		Five minutes...
bud		 Well... life all comes down to a few moments, and this is one of 'em...
gekko		 Look, Jerry, I'm looking for negative control, no more than 30 to 35%, just enouqh to block anybody else's merger plans and find out from the inside if the books are cooked. If it looks as good as on paper, we're in the kill
gekko		 Ollie, start calling a the institutions, start with Marx at Janson Mutual, then Reardon. Get me that California retirement money, baby! And we're on our way!
ollie		You got it, G.G.
gekko		 Look Harold, they're vulnerable, alright, but we don't want 'em to think they're under accumulation. Go slow. Call Geneva and the Bahamas for me, will ya? We feint towards it but we wait...
alex		What about tipping off Yurovich?
gekko		 If I ever need surgery, get me the heart of an arb like Yurovich, it's never been used...Happy Holideals Harold...
bud		 How do you do Mr. Gekko. I'm Bud Fox.
gekko		So you say. Nice to meet you; hope you're intelligent. Like these, how'd you get these? 
bud		 ...got a connection at the airport.
gekko		So what s on your mind kimosabe? Why am I listening to you? Got to monitor my blood pressure, so whatever you do, don't upset me.
bud		Oh no, no...
gekko		 Within 45 seconds, a microprocessor computes your systolic and diastolic pressure. Has an LCD readout, and it's cost effective -- less than one visit to the doctor.
bud		I just want to let you know Mr. Gekko I read all about you at NYU Business, and I think you're an incredible genius and I've always dreamed of only one thing -- to do business with a man like you...
gekko		 So what firm you with, pal?
bud		Jackson, Steinem...
gekko		 ...going places, good junk bond department, you got the financing on that Syndicam deal.
bud		...Yeah, and we're working on some other interesting stuff.
gekko		 ...A cosmetics company by any chance? What are you, the 12th man on the deal team? The last to know?
bud		 Can't tell you that, Mr. Gekko.
gekko		So whatta you got for me, sport? Why are you here?
bud		Chart break-out on this one here...uh Whitewood-Young Industries...low P.E. Explosive earnings. 30% discount from book. Great cash flow. Coupla 5% holders. Strong management.
gekko		It's a dog, what else you got, sport, besides connections at the airport?
natalie		Mr. Stevenson in San Fransisco.
gekko		He respond to the offer? What? What the hell's Cromwell doing giving lecture tours when his company's losing 60 million a quarter? I guess he's giving lectures on how to lose money...if this guy opened a funeral parlor, no one would die, this turkey's totally brain dead...Well Christmas is over and business is business.  Keep buying. Dilute the sonofabitch. Ollie I want every orifice in his body flowing red.
ollie		 He's flowing, Gordo. Piece of cake.
gekko		...doesn't look like it but the best trader on the street...  Sue get the LBO analysis on Teldar Paper and bring it here...what else?
bud		 Tarafly...Analysts don't like it. I do. The breakup value is twice the market price. The deal finances itself. Sell off two divisions, keep...
gekko		 Come on, tell me something I don't know. It's my birthday, pal, surprise me...
bud		 Bluestar Airlines.
gekko		...rings a bell somewhere. So what?
bud		A comer. 80 medium-body jets. 300 pilots, flies northeast, Canada, some Florida and Caribbean routes... great slots in major cities...
gekko		...don't like airlines, lousy unions...
bud		There was a crash last year. They just got a favorable ruling on a lawsuit. Even the plaintiffs don't know.
gekko		How do you know?
bud		 I know...the decision'll clear the way for new planes and route contracts. There's only a small float out there, so you should grab it. Good for a five point pop.
ollie		... just got 250,000 shares at 18 1/4 from Janson, think I'll pull twice that at 18 1/2 outta the California pensions. We got close to half a million shares in the bag.
gekko		Hey, the Terminator! Blow 'em away Ollie.
ollie		And, I'm pretty sure we got the Beezer Brothers out of Tulsa coming in with us and I'm working on the Silverberg boys in Canada.
gekko		Rip their throats out and put them in your garbage compactor.  Interesting. You got a card?
bud		My home number's on the back...
gekko		 Bud Fox, I look at a hundred ideas a day. I choose one.
bud		Well, hope to hear from you, sir.
gekko		 OK gang, looks like we're going over 5% in Teldar, start the lawyers on a tender offer and 13D, we keep going after everything in sight but don't pay over $22. They're gonna fight, they got Myers and Thromberg doing their legal, they make Nazis look like nice guys...
bud		...thanks Natalie.
natalie		 ... Mr. Gekko, the conference call is ready. Mr. Sugarman and Mr. Lorenzo in Delaware. Mr. Bernard in Los Angeles. Mr. Jackson and Ms. Rosco in London. They're all on.
marv		 ...well, see him?
bud		 Yeah, but he didn't see me.
marv		Cheer up buddy buddy. You shook Gekko the Great's hand and you still got all your fingers. He's not the only elephant in the jungle.
marv		 ... got something from him? Teldar Paper?
bud		...a dog with fleas.
lynch		Where you been the last 3 hours, Fox? I wouldn't be sitting around chin wagging if I were you... plenty of names in that phone book to cold call...
marv		...got tickets for the Knicks tonight. Go out and cruise some bimbos afterwards, whaddaya say?
bud		 ...gotta read my reports.
marv		Forget charts! We're not fund managers, Bud, churn 'em and burn 'em. I'm offering you the Knicks and chicks. God save you before you turn into poor Steeples over there.
bud		...preferably Lou Mannheim...
marv		Nice guy but a loser. Lost all his equity when his firm went belly up in the recession of 71. you wanna be coming in here in your late sixties still pitching? ... Whatever happened to that cute analyst at Thudder, Wicks? ... Cindy? Susan?
bud		Cindy. Having sex with her is like reading the Wall Street Journal 'cept the Journal don't talk back. 'Sides this AIDS crap is ruining romance, nobody trusts anybody anymore, gotta get a blood test in the toilet before you leave a bar together, somebody oughtta invent an AIDS dipstick, no kidding, make a fortune. I gotta get to work... Z's today. 
gina		Call for you Buddy.
bud		 Bud Fox.
gekko		Alright Bud Fox... buy me twenty thousand shares of Bluestar. No more than 15 1/8, 3/8 tops, and don't screw it up sport.
bud		Yes, sir. Thank you. You won't regret it.
marv		Got a little action there, eh buddy?
bud		Marv,  ...I just bagged the elephant!
young trader		...you know Marty Wyndham? He netted $650,000 out of that merger...26 years old, the guy's Rambo. Got himself a Porsche Turbo Cabriolet about 75 thou, got a house in Westhampton, penthouse on Second Avenue, gets up at 2:30 in the morning, he's in the office at
bud		 Hi...can I buy you a drink? I'm celebrating tonight.
bud		Look, I know you get approached a lot by dubious men, but I'm different, I never talk to strangers, all my life I've been waiting for the right person to walk across the room... you're that person, you don't know it but I do and if you walk away now I'll never see you again or you me. You'll grow old.
blonde		Oh really.
blonde		 Grand Marnier.
bud		Sounds like a french word, what is it?
blonde		It's a romantic and tragic drink.
bud		Sounds tempting. I prefer mine with a twist of fate. You know like us meeting. Don't go away...
bartender		What do you want?
bud		...I just lost it.
bud		 What's it at now? Still moving. Great!
steeples		The man of the day. Pour some water on him to cool him off...one of these days I want to know how you got Gekko's account.
bud		 My magic tie, Dan.
steeples		I'll trade you.
chinese lady		Gordo the Great, way to go.
mannheim		 Good little company. I remember when we got the money for Bluestar to build those first planes, back in the fifties.
chinese lady		 I hear you're buying Teldar.
bud		Sleep with me and the secrets of the West are yours.
mannheim		Now that's a crap company, sure you'll make money on the takeover rumor, but what's being created. Nothing. No substance behind it.
bud		 Old values. Buy.
marv		Buddy, buddy, some buddy; why didn't you tell me to buy Bluestar.
bud		Hey Marv, he demanded confidentiality...
marv		Gimme a break. You buy Bluestar Airlines yesterday. Today they just happen to get good news and the stock goes bat shit. You must have ESP. A real Nostradamus.  Jesus Christ, what are friends for?
bud		All right, I owe you one Marv.
marv		That's right, next time a little birdie talks to you, talk to me too E.F. Hutton.
gina		 Buddy, phone...Gordon Gekko!
bud		 I'm out the door...
lynch		Nice piece of work, Fox. Why don't you join me and the partners for lunch tomorrow in the dining room?
bud		I'd love to, Mr. Lynch, thank you.
gekko		Hi sport.
bud		 Nice to see you again Mr. Gekko.
gekko		Try the steak tartare. It's off the menu but Louis'll make it for you...
bud		Uh...just a Evian, thank you...
gekko		See this? Can you believe it? Two inch screen...
bud		...I can't even see it...
gekko		...for my kid Rudy -- 3 years old, electronics freak, got a liquid crystal display 'stead of an electronic beam. We're going into a new age pal. So how's business today.
bud		Bluestar was at 21 and an eighth when I left the office. It might spin up to 25 by the bell...
gekko		 Teldar's shooting up. Buy any for yourself? Bet you were on the phone two minutes after you got out of my office.
bud		 No sir, that would've been illegal...
gekko		 Sure...relax sport, no one's gonna blow a whistle. Here, is this legal?...you wanna put it in my account?
gekko		 Can we have the check over here for christ's sake.
bus boy		 Yes sir!
gekko		Cover the Bluestar buy and put a couple hundred thou in one of those bow-wow stocks you mentioned. Pick the dog with the least fleas. Use a stop loss so your downside is 50,000, and buy yourself a decent suit. You can't come in here looking like that.  Go to Morty Sills, Tell 'em I sent you.
bud		 Mr. Gekko -- thank you for the chance. You won't regret this, you're with a winner.
gekko		 ...put the rest of it in a money market account for now. I want to see what you know before I invest it...and save the cheap salesman talk, it's obvious.
bud		 Excuse me sir.
gekko		You heard me...I don't like losses sport. Nothing ruins my day more than losses... You do good, you get perks, all kinds of perks. Stay home tonight. Louis, take care of 'im. Enjoy the lunch.
lisa		Hello Bud, I'm Lisa, a friend of Gordon's.
bud		 Lisa. Gordon? Oh, Mr. Gekko. Sure. Would you, uh, like to come in?
lisa		Didn't he tell you?  That's so like Gordon. Get dressed, we're going out.
bud		We are?
bud		So, where are we going?
lisa		Wherever you like, Lutece, 21, the River Cafe...or maybe we can just drive around for a while.  Work up an appetite.
lisa		Want some?  Gordon tells me you're a very talented broker. What do you like?
bud		 Like? Uh...hmmm. Well...
lisa		I got this guy who should know tells me buy Hewlitt Packard but I been burned on tips. What do you think Bud?
bud		Let's see, it closed at uh, 41 1/8...  Up a quarter...very attractive... about average yield...
bud		Rising profits...strong balance sheets, good earnings per share.
lisa		 So you're hot on this stock?
bud		 It's ready to take off. I'd jump all over it if I were you.
carolyn		 Morning Buddy, you look happy.
bud		Any better and I'd be guilty.
carolyn		 You were never that innocent sugarpie.
bud		 ...how do you know? You wish...
marv		Boy, we sure went down the toilet on that ugly bitch. If we were Japs, we'd have to stay with our aircraft.
gina		 Mr. Gekko's office is after you. Be at the Wyatt Club courts at six...
gekko		 ...come on sport, you gotta try harder, I need some exercise for chrissake...
bud		 Mr. Gekko, I don't think I can...go on.
gekko		...finish out the game, Bud, push yourself...
gekko		The public is out there throwing darts at a board, sport. I don't throw darts at a board. I only bet sure things. Read Sun Tzu's "The Art of War." 'every battle is won before it is ever fought.' Think about it.
bud		 Nice club, Mr. Gekko...
gekko		Yeah... not bad for a City College boy. Bought my way into this club and now every one of these ivy league schmucks is sucking my kneecaps...I just got on the Board of the Zoological Society, cost me a million; that's the thing with WASPS -- they like animals but they can't stand people!
bud		 ...about 50 thousand.
gekko		I guess your father's not a union representative on that company.
bud		 What? How do you know about my father?
gekko		The most valuable commodity I know of is information. Wouldn't you agree on that?
bud		 Yes...
gekko		You're not as smart as I thought you were, Buddy boy, Listen hard -- don't count on Graham and Dodd to make you a fortune, everybody in the market knows the theory, ever wonder why fund managers can't beat the S&P 500? 'Cause they're sheep -- and the sheep get slaughtered. I been in the business since '69. Most of these high paid MBAs from Harvard never make it. You need a system, discipline, good people, no deal junkies, no toreadores, the deal flow burns most people out by 35. Give me PSHs -- poor, smart and hungry. And no feelings. You don't win 'em all, you don't love 'em all, you keep on fighting, and if you need a friend, get a dog, it's trench warfare out there sport...  and in here too. I got twenty other brokers out there, analyzing Charts. I don't need another one. Talk to you sometime...
bud		 I'm not just another broker Mr. Gekko. If you give me another chance, I'll prove it to you. I'll go the extra yard for you. One more chance. Please...
gekko		You want one more chance? Then stop sending me information and start getting me some. Get dressed, I'll show you my charts.
gekko		Know the name?
bud		'Course. Larry Wildman. One of the first raiders.
gekko		 Sir Larry Wildman. Like all Brits he thinks he was born with a better pot to piss in... bribed an old secretary of mine to open bar mouth and stole RDL Pharmaceuticals right out from under me. Wildman the white knight.
bud		 I remember that deal. You were involved?
gekko		Revenge is a dish best served cold... well, it's payback time, sport.  Now, it's a day's pay ... I had a mole in Wildman's employ. Gave me half the picture, then he got fired...
bud		I don't understand.
gekko		Wildman's in town. He just became an American citizen. Something big's about to go down. I want to know where he goes and who he sees. I want you, sport, to give me the missing half of the picture...
bud		Follow him? Mr. Gekko I...  It's not what I do. I could lose my license. If the SEC found out, I could go to jail. It's inside information, isn't it?
gekko		 I'm afraid sport, unless you got a father on the board of directors of another company, you and I are gonna have a hard time doing any business...
bud		What about hard work?
gekko		What about it? You work hard. I'll bet you stayed up all night analyzing that dog you bought. And where'd it get you?... my father worked hard too like an elephant pushing electrical supplies. And he dropped dead at 49 with a heart attack and a tax bill and the bank pissed on his grave and took the house; my mom ended up working in a dish factory... Wake up pal, if you're not inside you're outside. And I'm not talking a $200,000 a year working Wall Street stiff flying first class and being "comfortable", I'm talking rich pal, rich enough to fly in your own jet, rich enough not to waste time, 50-100 million, a player Bud -- or nothing. You had what it takes to let through my door. Next question: You got what it takes to stay...??
gekko		 Look out there...
gekko		...when it comes to money, sport, everybody's of the same religion. Or should be... Hope you don't mind if I let you off here, I'm late for a meeting. Good bye, nice knowing you.
bud		All right, Mr. Gekko...you got me.
gekko		Yeah, it's a beautiful night. I love this hot stinkin' city.  ... nothing else like it in the world. Seven million people living on each other's heads, kids born, millionaires dying, people praying, junkies, whores, wills, lawyers, deals, parties, sex... guys like you sport -- dreaming about the big score. You know the best thing about New York is everything you can do here. And the worst thing is everything you can't do here...
bud		Oh shit, don't tell me Mr. Wildman was on board that plane?  You know where that plane is going?
mechanic		 Erie, Pennsylvania...
bud		 ...he later stopped off at Morgan. I'd say from all the palm-pressing and sweet smiling going on that Larry got some nice fat financing... G.G.
gekko		...bright but not bright enough, Sherlock, roll the dice and play a little monopoly... what box would Sir Lawrence land on in Erie, Pennsylvania?
bud		Jesus Christ, he's buying Anacott Steel!
gekko		When the market opens tomorrow, buy five thousand March fifty calls. You hear me? Start buying ten thousand share blocks and take it up to fifty dollars. When it reaches fifty, you can let out a little taste to your friends. Then call this number -- 555-7617: tell the man "blue horseshoe loves Anacott Steel..." You scored, Buddy! Be in touch. 
gekko		Start buying Anacott Steel all over the board.
bud		Hey Dad!... Hi ya Charlie... Dominick...
carl		What brings you out here...
bud		Client. Got a private jet over at Butler Aviation... Dad, you always gotta light up when you see me, it's the...
carl		 Don't start, alright.
bud		Alright. Why so pissed?
carl		Goddamn fare wars are murdering us. Had to lay off five guys. Nothing I could do. What is it... money?
bud		Yeah, it is. In fact I'm doing great. New client. Whole new league. It's starting to happen Dad. The Big Leagues! You know what I'm saying.
carl		 What's this? I gave you two hundred.
bud		Dividend. I figure I owe you about five thousand in nickels and dimes...
carl		 ...don't be crazy. Put it to your school loans.
bud		Don't worry about the loans. I'm doing good Dad and it's gonna stay that way now... least buy yourself a new suit.
carl		What do I need a fancy suit for. I don't hobnob with the jet set. I just fix their planes.
bud		...then buy yourself a decent bowling jacket so when you take Mom out you don't look like the Roto Rooter man. Come on, for godsakes, that's what money's for. Enjoy yourself...
carl		Problem with money is you never have enough or you got too much -- and when you got it you're never happy 'cause somebody's always trying to take it away from you. Money's one giant pain in the ass y'ask me... thanks.
bud		 ... Dad, you should've been a CEO. How about dinner?
carl		Whatever night you like.
bud		 Wait... next week's booked. Let me check with my girl and get back to you on Monday.
carl		 Yeah, you do that huckleberry. I'll still be here.
bud		...gotta run Dad. You stop smoking, you hear?
marv		Tell Mr. Ehrlich I've got important financial news! It concerns his future.
marv		What the hell...
bud		Anacott Steel. Buy it.
marv		 Anacott Steel -- right.
marv		Dr. Beltzer, you're gonna love this!
bud		Mr. Mannheim, got a sure thing.  Anacott Steel.
mannheim		 You're part of something here, Bud. The money you make for people creates science and research jobs. Don't sell that out.
bud		You're right, Mr. Mannheim, but you gotta get to the big time first, then you can be a pillar and do good things.
mannheim		Can't get a little bit pregnant, Bud.
bud		It's a winner Mr. Mannheim, trust me -- buy. 
charlie		Gotcha baby, its do-able... meet you at the Wyatt Club... 3pm Dinner Thursday... Indochina. Then we'll kamikaze down to Nell's, chase a little cotton underwear--I know this 18 year old bimbo, man... you can take it to the bank... 
bud		 Wanna play some tennis Saturday?
charlie		You mean teach you how to play. Can't. Going fly fishing in Canada, big client...
bud		 ...you take that Anacott Steel?
charlie		 ...light snack, but good, thanks pal, you're sharking your way up...
steeples		I've just heard the most lovely two words... 'Anacott Steel.'
bud		...Blue horseshoe loves Anacott Steel. 
reporter		Anacott Steel's in play. Check the arbs.
susan		 You sent him to Vermont to get the deposition from the CEO Cromwell fired.
gekko		...done and done. Night gang, and Susan no legs waving in the air tonight. I want you dreaming about Teldar Paper.
gekko		Rudy Kazootee, how's my cutie!
rudy		Daddy bad boy! Bad boy! -- play with Wudi... Now!
gekko		No, not now Rudy. Daddy's making money to buy you toys. Daddy work.
rudy		Daddy work bad boy!
business analyst		...the big story tonight is Anacott Steel which closed at 51 1/8.  Up 5 1/8 from yesterday's close on heavy trading...
kate		I think somebody's playing hooky from the bathtub. Rudy, say good night DAddy...
gekko		 Shut that off, willya!
houseboy		Calls for you, sir, a reporter from Time magazine on two, says it's important... and a Mr. Fox on three.
gekko		 Yeah?
bud		 Mr. Gekko, I've been trying to reach you. We got the options. We got a good execution on them!
gekko		Nicole! Take him will you...
bud		 I got all I could get which was 750,000 shares plus 5000 March 50 calls. Average price of $47 a share And $4 per contract for the call. I just wish I could've got more.
gekko		Don't expect to get it all, sport, you'll burn out. First rule of business is never get emotional about stock, clouds the judgment. Where do we stand?
business analyst		In response to an inquiry from the New York Stock Exchange, management issued a terse no comment. Wildman would not return phone calls. Analysts believe the company is worth $75 per share in a transaction.
kate		John and Carmen are here and the Livingstons are on their way...
gekko		 I'll be right there, fix them a drink.
bud		 ...we have 37.2 million invested. At this point, we're up 3.1 million and some change. If it goes to 75 bucks we can clean close to 12 mill.
gekko		 You're walking between the raindrops kid. I expect Sir Larry is choking on his royal chamber pot by now.
bud		My firm needs your signature on these option agreements tonight, sir, otherwise we could take a real bath tomorrow.
gekko		 ...Awright. Come out, get the directions from Natalie and hurry up.
butler		 Can I help you?
bud		Bud Fox. Got some papers for Mr. Gekko to sign.
butler		Wait a moment please.
bud		 Sorry, Mr. Gekko.
gekko		 Allright. Wait here...
kate		Problems?
gekko		No... Bud Fox, my wife, Kate...
kate		You came from the city?  Long drive, have a drink.
gekko		Yeah, why not, Bud boy...
bud		...if you'd rather not, Mr. Gekko, I can leave...
gekko		...It's okay Buddy, you know Alex... Candice Rogers.  ...Darien Taylor, Sam Ruspoli, Carmen Winters, Dick Brady... All old friends.
stone livingston		 ...good idea Gordon, good help is hard to find these days but can he whip up a dry vodka martini...
gekko		...well he doesn't talk back or steal the silver and Dick's gonna get me an exemption on him, aren't you... 
muffie		...there I am in St. Kitt's in my new Kamali leopard skin V-cut bikini which is going to turn back the clock on our marriage five years, you know what I mean, and I can't even fit into it, my skin's all pink and inflamed, and I look like a walking social disease all because this Ukranian bitch botched the wax on my bikini line.
candice		 Oh my god, how ghastly, you should sue her...
houseboy		Call for you sir. Sir Larry Wildman, he says it's important...
gekko		 Stick around, this could be fun...
muffie		So, I had to sit around the beach wearing a moo-moo for 10 days, my whole vacation ruined.  You just spilled your wine.
candice		You're just making it worse.
gekko		 ...if you feel that way Larry, come over.
bud		Hello again, I been holding these drinks for us for the last three weeks.
darien		 Excuse me.
bud		Grand Marnier. A romantic and tragic drink.
darien		Oh yes, I remember you.
bud		Destiny took us apart, but I knew it would bring us back together.
darien		Aha. Poet or philosopher?
bud		Stock broker. As in: never have so few done so little for so much. So what do you see in this?
darien		I'd give anything to have this in my house, even for a week.
bud		...few thousand dollars down the drain if you ask me.
darien		Oh really?  Well, I guess you can kiss that career as an art appraiser goodbye, because we paid over four hundred thousand for it at the contemporary picture sale last June.
bud		 You could have a great beach house for that.
darien		Sure you could, in Wildwood, New Jersey. If you sold this,  you could have a pretty nice penthouse on Fifth. But you wouldn't have much left over for decoration.
bud		Boy, I thought Gordon was a tough businessman, but somebody's really taking him to the cleaners here.
darien		Not really. I'd say that Gordon is one of the most astute collectors around. He has a great eye and he only buys the best. Like this rug for instance, a silk Tabriz, the finest of its kind. The day after he bought it in London, a dealer representing the Saudi Royal Family offered him twice what he paid. It absolutely makes the room. See how this little bit of celadon in the border is picked up in the cushions oh the sofa... although...  I don't know if I would have used that tea dipped linen for the upholstery - too dingy. And it's a sacrilege having that Pre-Columbian pot in the center of the coffee table. Some dope might use it as an ashtray.
bud		I gather you're a decorator.
darien		You got it, a great spender of other people's money.
bud		Well, if you're that good, you could probably do wonders at my place.
darien		Where is it?
bud		Upper West Side.
darien		 houseplant.
bud		Oh it's just a rental. I'm moving to the East Side soon. I've got a couple of deals brewing with Gordon.  but that's just conversation... what about real things? Like dinner. The two of us. Friday. Cafe. Santo Domingo.
darien		What if I have a previous engagement?
bud		Break it.
darien		I guess this must be destiny alright. My first yuppie apartment and...  my first yuppie.
bud		 You may call me a yuppie... It's Mister Yuppie to you.
bud		 So. See you Friday.
darien		You really do believe in destiny?
bud		Only if I want something bad enough.
sam		...there you go again, Darien, talking with strange men.
kate		That's our Darien: elusive, reclusive, exclusive.  Sam's in banking. You staying for dinner Bud?
bud		 No, I'm afraid I've got to get some work...
kate		...excuse me.
darien		 Call me next week, I'll give you an estimate...
kate		 Larry, how have you been? Get you a drink?
wildman		 Oh fine. Travelling actually. Nothing thank you. Is...
kate		Gordon?... He's right here.
gekko		Larry! Excuse me "sir" Larry, great to see you again, you're looking good. 
wildman		Gordon... 
bud		 I guess I'll head back...
gekko		 Stick around... Larry, one of my "gang" -- Bud Fox.
gekko		Shall we go upstairs?
gekko		Rarest pistol in the world, Larry, a .45 Luger. Only six were ever manufactured.
wildman		Congratulations but rarer still is your interest in Anacott Steel.
gekko		The same interest as yours Larry. Money. I thought it'd be a good investment for my kid...
wildman		No. This time I'm in for the long term. This is not a liquidation, Gordon. I'm going to turn it around. You're getting a free ride on my tail, mate, and with the dollars you're costing me to buy back the stock, I could modernize the plant. I'm not the only one who pays here Gordon. We're talking about lives and jobs; three and four generations of steel workers...
gekko		 You must be wearing a mask you're laughing so hard behind it Larry. Let's cut the "sir" crap. Correct me if I'm wrong, but when you took CNX Electronics, you laid off 8,000 workers, Jessmon Fruit about 6,000, that airline...
wildman		 I could break you, mate, in two pieces over my knees, you know it, I know it, I could buy you six times ever, I could dump the stock just to burn your ass but I happen to want the company and I want your block of shares. I'm announcing a tender offer at 65 tomorrow, and I'm expecting your commitment.
gekko		Showdowns bore me Larry, neither side wins. You can have the company, in fact it's gonna be fun watching you and your giant ego try to make a horserace out of it...  What do you think is a fair price for our stock Bud?
bud		The break up value is higher. It's
gekko		But we don't want to be greedy now,
wildman		You're a two bit pirate and a green-mailer, Gekko, nothing more... not only would you sell your mother to make a deal, you'd send her COD...
gekko		My mail's the same color as yours Larry. Or it was till the Queen started calling you "sir". Now excuse me before I lose my temper...
gekko		Considering you brought my mother
wildman		Done. You'll hear from my lawyers. 8 a.m. Good night.
gekko		 He's right. I had to sell. The key to the game is your capital reserves. You don't have enough, you can't pee in the tall weeds with the big dogs.
bud		 "All warfare is based on deception..." Sun Tzu says, If your enemy is superior, evade him, if angry, irritate him, if equally matched, fight... if not, split and reevaluate.
gekko		You're learning, sport...
bud		Yeah?...
gekko		Money never sleeps pal. When I came in in '69, they traded six hours a day, now the clock don't stop, London's deregulated, the Orient is hungrier than us. Just let the money circle the world, sport, buying and selling, and if you're smart it comes back paying. I just made $800,000 in Hong Kong gold. It's been wired to you -- play with it. You done good, but you gotta keep doing good. I showed you how the game works, now school's out.
bud		 Mr. Gekko, I'm there for you 110%.
gekko		You don't understand. I want to be surprised...astonish me, sport, new info, don't care where or how you get it, just get it... My wife tells me you put a move on Darien. Here's some inside info for you. That Euroflash GQ guy she's going with's got big bucks but he's putting her feet to sleep. Exit visas are imminent. So don't lose your place in line.  ...an old Russian proverb - "a fisherman always sees another fisherman from afar." I like you sport, I ever tell you that... Gordon, call me Gordon from now on.
bud		 ...Gordon.
gekko		Yeah, I'm gonna make you rich, Bud Fox. I'm gonna make you rich enough you can afford a girl like Darien. Remember, power is the best aphrodisiac. This is your wake-up call. Go to work.
roger		Fox, Bud D. is this deja vu or has it really been a year. You're not hitting me up for NYU are you?
bud		Well we're thinking of putting up a statue of you in the subway. I hear you're moving up in the world. An associate already. Not bad. How's Margie?
roger		Can't complain. Got a house in Oyster Bay. Market treating you good? Still seeing that sexy French gal?
bud		Nah, she asked the wrong question.
roger		What was that?
bud		"What are you thinking?"...that was it. The hours are hell, but the money's starting to tumble in. I know this guy who's got an iron- clad way to make money, I can't lose and I can't get hurt.
roger		 So, does "this guy" have a tip for an honest lawyer?
bud		Yeah, check out Teldar Paper, it's still not over.
roger		Okay.
bud		What about you, I hear you guys are handling the Fairchild Foods merger and it may not be going through. Any surprises I haven't read about in the Wall Street Journal?
roger		 Come on Buddy, you wouldn't want to got me disbarred now would you?
bud		 Who's listening? It's just one college buddy talking to another.
roger		 Yeah, right...
bud		Relax, Roger, everybody's doing it but you don't know, you don't know.
roger		...and if I did, what's in it for moi?
bud		More money than you ever dreamed, Roger. And the thing is no one gets hurt...how bout a beer?
roger		 Too much to do...but I'll walk you out.
roger		 ...Get inside my uncle's door Buddy, all the secrets of the world are yours... the life blood of companies, but you gotta go to law school first...
bud		I need to speak to the owner about some business.
bud		 Mr. Panos, I've charted the growth of new office space in the city, and I think you're in the right business at the right time.
panos		Thank you for telling me what I already know.
bud		I'm impressed with your work and I could use a tax break. This is a growing business. Are you interested in some working capital and a partner?
panos		What makes you think I need a partner?!
bud		 Uh. Wrong office. Sorry...
gekko		 Got him at an auction in Kentucky.
bud		How much?
gekko		 But this sucker can go all the way to Devon and the nationals.
bud		Devon? He looks like Seattle Slew. What about the Triple Crown?
darien		He's not a racehorse, Bud, he's a jumper.
bud		How would I know? I once bet a horse. He went out at ten to one and came in at quarter to five.
harold		...You understand Mr. Gekko is constantly barraged with nuisance litigation and IRS audits.
bud		 Of course.
harold		...So it's in both our interests to put a safe distance between you and us...  ...this gives you limited power of attorney for Mr. Gekko's account. Every trade you make is at your discretion. Every ticket you buy must be marked "power of attorney." That means you call the shots and Mr. Gekko has no official knowledge of what stocks you're buying. Sign here and here...
gekko		...just the beginning, sport, just the begining...
harold		 ...you understand if any problems arise, you're out there on your own. The trail stops with you...
bud		All's fair in love and war.
gekko		The art of which is deception. Spread the buy orders through different accounts and you won't get burned...
bud		I think I got some friends that won't mind making some easy money...
gekko		Rudy, viens ici, dit bonjour a Monsieur Bud.
gekko		 Already speaks a little French, kid got the highest score on his IQ test.
kate		 ...it's so tough to get into a good nursery school now. They even visit your home to make sure your paintings and furnishings are acceptable.
bud		What's it cost these days?
kate		$5,000 just for the tuition... plus the books and supplies...  ...now that's it for you with the grown-ups young man.
kate		Nicole, take him for a nap, please.
nicole		He doesn't nap anymore, Madame. It's been...
kate		 Black clothes are the newest things, so chic and milk stains, carrot juice stains just don't show up. Kids -- boy, can they take it out of you!
harold		This is a contact at one of our banks. On settlement day you'll open an account there for Mr. Gekko under the name of Geneva, Roth Holding Corp. Then you'll wire transfer the money to this account in the Cayman Islands...
gekko		 ... at a reasonable fee. You're gonna make a lot of money now Bud... stakes are gonna go up, no mistakes...
bud		...piece of cake, Gordon...
darien		 If I could have anything... this would almost do.
bud		Yeah, almost...
darien		 So, how did your conference go with Gordon?
bud		The conference, oh yeah. Fine. We reached an agreement and decided to divide up the world between us.
darien		 You have modest wants. I like that in a man.
bud		And what do you want?
darien		...a Turner, a perfect canary diaiaond... a Lear jet... world peace... the best of everything...
bud		Well, why stop at that?
darien		I don't.
bud		 You're not trouble by any chance. Are you?
cromwell		...Your company, ladies and gentlemen, is under siege from Gordon Gekko. Teldar Paper is now leveraged to the hilt, like some piss poor South American country...instead of using our cash to build plants, build our business, all this man really wants is to get paid to withdraw his tender offer and that will cost us approximately another $200 million in greenmail which will be passed on to the consumer...
gekko		Where do you get off speaking about me like that, making remarks to the press, I resent these remarks, I demand the right to speak.
cromwell		Sit down, sir, you're out of order, haven't you done enough damage to Teldar as it is?...have you no sense of decency?  How can your management...
gekko		...I appreciate the chance you're giving me, Mr. Cromwell, as the single largest stockholder in Teldar, to speak. 
cromwell		This is an outrage Gekko! You're full of shit!
gekko		One thing I do know is this paper company lost $110 million last year, and I'd bet half of that is in the paperwork going back and forth between all the vice presidents...  That's all I'm saying...it's you people who own this company, not them, they work for you and they've done a lousy job of it. Get rid of them fast, before you all get sick and die. I may be an opportunist, but if these clowns did a better job, I'd be out of work. In the last seven deals I've been in, there were 2.3 million stockholders that actually made a pretax profit of $12 billion. When I bought the Ixtlan Corporation it was in the exact same position Teldar is today -- I turned three of its companies private and I sold four others -- and each of these companies, liberated from the suffering conglomerate has prospered. I am not a destroyer of companies, I am a liberator of them. The point is, ladies and gentlemen, greed is good. Greed works, greed is right. Greed clarifies, cuts through, and captures the essence of the evolutionary spirit. Greed in all its forms, greed for life, money, love, knowledge, has marked the upward surge of mankind -- and greed, mark my words -- will save not only Teldar Paper but that other malfunctioning corporation called the USA...Thank you.
bud		What's going on?
marv		 Lynch is giving him the boot... He's not pulling his quota.
marv		 ...we're all just one trade away from humility, Buddy...
lynch		New research report on GM and a conference call on defense stocks at my office at 11. No RSVP required, just be there. And on an inspiring note I'm pleased to announce the new office record for a single month's gross commission goes to Bud Fox. Who more than doubled the old mark. Way to go Bud. Super job! Come on up here.
marv		Congrats buddy buddy, you just made my life twice as hard around here...
mannheim		You're on a roll kiddo. Enjoy it while it lasts -- 'cause it never does.
bud		 ...just kickin' ass and taking names, Mr. Mannheim.
charlie		So whaddaya say pal, wanna play some doubles at Piping? Meet the membership? I got a little blonde named Mandy, about nineteen, avec cafe au lait boobs... she's mine but she's got a cousin who has great muffins.
bud		...sounds dubious Chuck, but Piping Rock any day.
lynch		Come in, Bud...
lynch		 significantly more attractive.
janet		Nice to meet you, Mr. Fox.
bud		 Thank you, Janet...thank you, Mr. Lynch.
lynch		No, thank you. I knew the minute I laid eyes on you, you had what it takes Bud. Just keep it going.
marv		So, its Mister Fox now.
sylvie		...everybody tells ya they hate the Upper East Side and they wanna live on the West Side but honey when it comes to resale time, believe me the East Side's the one that always moves. What do you get on the West Side?  I got a four o'clock and a five...one of them's an all-cash type, Monique something or other...I guarantee you this place is history tomorrow...
sylvie		...I think you gotta deal, honey... you sure you don't wanna see somethin' I got on Sutton Place. It's a million and a half but...
bud		Nah...this is it..home...
bud		 Yes...no...at 37 1/2. Convert the bonds right...and check the price in Tokyo at 8:00 LA time. Thanks...
darien		...isn't it perfect!
bud		...too perfect...let's not even eat. Let's just watch it and think about it. 
bud		 You know, the elevator man couldn't believe I paid $300,000 to have my walls looking like this, he's got them for free in Brooklyn.
darien		I'll bet he's got an opinion on the stock market too. This apartment is already ahead of its time. I call it the "demolished" look. They've already heard about it at House and Garden and they're coming next week to photograph it before it gets... lived in. Is that alright? I'd love to have it in my portfolio.
bud		Sure... But your fee... considering you're way over budget, should be negotiable.
darien		Let's get things straight, Bud. I'm not going to take a cut. I worked hard and you can't decorate a room in New York for less than $100,000. Curtains alone...
bud		I'm kidding, I'm kidding, we're still young, Darien. So what's money anyway when everybody's making it, it's all relative. After all, this is not the house in Connecticut, this is just a crash pad good for a couple of years...before we slip our two lovely kids, Yuppie and Fruppie into the Lycee Francaise.
darien		You got it all charted out don't you, like a stock projection.
bud		That's right -- one with high yield, rich assets and no downside...
darien		Do you think you're ready?
bud		It's not me I'm worried about...You know Darien, the only reason we haven't slept together is because we both know we will -- and not knowing when was the only surprise left. You owe me, I want you, what else is there...but you, me, the world.  Stop me if I'm going too far.
darien		I'll let you know.
bud		Is this real? Is this really real?
bud		Who am I?
darien		Come to bed, Bud...
bud		Dixon! It's your lucky day! That's right. I want to give you some stock and you don't have to put up a penny...
dixon		Sure, and I'm never gonna die either, is this one of your chain letter schemes or do I gotta buy a door to door cosmetic franchise in Northern Arkansas?
bud		No, no Dixon, my client wants to buy a large, large block of stock and needs to spread it around. I'll park some money in your account and if it hits, you get a big cut. I'm telling you, this is the easiest money you ever made...
bud		 ...and you don't have to put up a dime, Roger.
roger		 All right, Bud... let's do it.
bud		 ...it's easy Jack! On settlement day, you endorse a check to Blue Horseshoe Trading Company. Then I send you your cut.
marv		...things are so bad, even the liars are complaining. And you're making money. So what gives? What's the bottom line?
bud		Hey, I'm tired of playing nurse to you all the time, alright. Do your own home work!
bud		 Buy me 20 June Euro Dollar CDs. Twenty March gold and sell 10 September Deutsch marks. That's right...
bud		Bud, I hate to tell you this but you're a genius!  Darien...lightning has struck! The lightbulb has been invented. Edison, Da Vinci, Einstein are watching...
darien		 ...are you going to trade all night again? You got to go to work in a couple of hours.
bud		You think I'm gonna broker the rest of my life... I'm going to be a giant, Darien, an entrepreneur in the Italian 15th century sense of the word -- a mover, shaker.
bud		I love you, baby. Did I tell you that sometime in the last 24 hours?
darien		Get in bed. Y'ever hear of the sixty hour work week? You're turning into a yuppie Frankenstein, you love money so much.
bud		Sure, why not, money's the sex of the 80's. I never had it like you when I was growing up, baby, it wasn't the upper east side.
darien		You're so naive Bud, you don't even know. Your dad took care of you. I might've been rich when I was a kid...but my father lost all his money...in the seventies, in the stock market, at the track. He was a lousy gambler...
bud		 ...that changes all my plans, I thought you were loaded...
darien		 So did I, till I hit 19 and found I had all the royal habits and no throne. Mom got by but I had to go to work just like you. Only the skills I had were shopping and making friends. So...that's why I do what I do, what makes you tick, Buddy?
bud		Fear. The fear of being poor I guess, just like you, Darien... But that's all gonna change sweetheart. I'm catching the express...  ... and you're going along for the ride.
bud		...Bluestar's an unpolished gem, Gordon, right out of the garbage. A half assed management being decimated by a price war they can't win. But the gates at LaGuardia alone can bail us out, it's worth 25 bucks a share if it's worth a dime! They're ripe to fall.
gekko		Mixed emotions, Buddy: like Larry Wildman going off a cliff in my new Maserati. Men as smart as myself have got their asses handed to them on a sling with the airlines, fuel could go up, unions are killers...
bud		Yeah aren't you forgetting something Gordon: rule one, capital reserves. This company has $75 million cash in an overfunded pension. That buys us a lot of credibility...  ...and the beauty is you already own close to two percent of this sucker...
alex		 Gordon, the insurance people are balking on the logging trucks...
gekko		Tell those spineless toads we'll self-insure if they don't write it... You fire 33 vice presidents and nothing changes...  You eating twinkies today, Bud, or are you schtupping some stewardess...
bud		 Gordon what I want--and I never asked you for anything--is to be your co-pilot on this. I want to take this airline, turn it around, and make it work. It's gonna make us a fortune!
gekko		 I'm talking to a stockbroker who wants to run an airline. It's gonna take me two years and 2000 headaches to turn Teldar Paper around, what do I need this dink airline for? I'm up to my ass in more nuts than a fruitcake.
bud		Gordon, I worked at Bluestar, I know my way around, I have friends there...inside.
gekko		 What does that mean?
bud		 The three unions. It's 43% of Bluestar's operating budget, the hourly cost of a flight crew is $850 an hour, that's the real hidden value G.G., if you can negotiate that out, get a crew down to $350-400 an hour a run, this airline is gonna be the hottest thing since Texas Air...
gekko		What makes you think you can?
bud		I can talk to these people Gordon, they trust me...and my father can be a big help in getting cuts.
gekko		 So sport, the falcon has heard the falconer...tell me more...
bud		Dad, well come on in. Everybody's here. We couldn't start the show without you.
carl		 Well I'll be a lousy Republican.
darien		 I'm Darien Taylor.
carl		 Pretty creative. Doesn't look anything like the place my son bought a few months age.
darien		Listen, I hope you'll come here often, and under less formal circumstances.
bud		Dad, you know Duncan Wilmore, pilot's union, and Toni Carpenter, flight attendants...
carl		I met them before you were born.
bud		And I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Gekko, and his lawyer, Mr. Salt.
gekko		A pleasure to meet you, Mr. Fox.
gekko		I'd be proud to have a son like Bud. He's got a great future ahead of him.
carl		 I thought this was an informal meeting. What's he doing here?
gekko		 Harold, you don't mind strolling around the block a couple hundred times, do you?
harold		 Of course...
darien		...please help yourselves to some food...
gekko		Look, I have no illusions about winning a popularity contest with any of you. I was roasted the other night, and a friend of mine asked-- why are we honoring this man--have we run out of human beings?
wilmore		 With all due respect, Mr. Gekko, what's to prevent you from doing the same thing?
gekko		Cause I have a way around all this, a way we can all make money and make this airline profitable again. What do you say we cut to the chase. I'm asking for a modest twenty percent across-the-board wage cut.
gekko		And seven more hours a month.
carpenter		What kind of time frame are we talking about here?
gekko		Give me a year. If we're still losing money, the reductions stand. If however, we move into the black, I return part of the givebacks, salaries go back to present levels, and...  we institute an employee profit sharing program with stock. You'll own part of the airline.
wilmore		Are you prepared to put that in writing?
gekko		I'll have a letter of agreement drawn up within two days.
carpenter		What's your marketing strategy? How do you plan to return us to profitability?
gekko		Why don't I give Bud an opportunity to answer that.
bud		Thank you Mr. Gekko. First of all I want you to know my door will always be open to you cause I know from my Dad it's you guys that keep Bluestar flying. One -- Modernize. Our computer software is weak, we update it, we squeeze every dollar out of each seat and mile flown. You don't sell a seat to a guy for $89 when he's willing to pay $389. Effective inventory management through computerization will increase our load factor by 5 to 20%, that translates to approximately 50 to 200 million dollars in revenues; the point is, we can beat the majors at a price war. Two -- Advertising -- more, more, and aggressive, attack the majors. Three -- expand our hubs to Atlanta, North Carolina and Dallas, reorganize all our feeder schedules, think Big -- guys, we're going after the majors!
gekko		 Cards are on the table. What do you think?
wilmore		 If you mean what you say, I think we're in the ball park. I'll take it to my people.
carpenter		 You've sketched some broad strokes. I'd like to see the fine print. But so far so good.
carl		I guess if a man lives long enough, he gets to see everything. And I mean everything. What else do you have in your bag of tricks, Mr. Gekko?
gekko		Frankly, Carl, I can't see giving much more. If you have any suggestions I'll be glad to listen.
carl		There came into Egypt a Pharoah who did not know.
gekko		 I beg your pardon. Is that a proverb?
carl		 I know what this guy is about-- greed--he's in and out for the buck and he don't take prisoners. He don't give a damn about Northstar or us ...
bud		Now, wait a minute, Dad...
gekko		 Sure. What's worth doing is worth doing for money. It's a bad bargain where nobody gains. And if this deal goes through, we all gain.
carl		 'Course my son did work three summers as a baggage handler and freight loader. With those qualifications, why should I doubt his ability to run an airline?
gekko		Fine, if you don't want us, stay with the scum in present management--dedicated to running you and Bluestar into the ground.
carl		...that "scum" built this company up from one plane in thirty years, they made something out of nothing, and if that's a scum I'll take one over a rat any day...
bud		 Congratulations. You did a great job of embarrassing me in there-- not to mention yourself! Save the "workers of the world unite" speech for next time Dad, I heard it too much growing up. You're gonna get axed Dad, no two ways about it, you and the whole airline are going down the tubes, you hear me, just like Braniff, you don't have a chance in hell, and if it isn't Gekko it's gonna be some other killer.
carl		He's got your prick in his back pocket, son, and you're standing naked in the display window of Macy's. He's using you. Only you're too blind to see it.
bud		No, what I see is a jealous old machinist who can't stand that his son's become more successful than himself.
carl		What you see, son, is a man who never measured success by the size of a man's wallet.
bud		That's because you never had the guts to go out into the world and stake your claim.
carl		 Boy, if that's what you think, I must've really screwed up my job as a father.
bud		 Your responsibility, Dad, is to present the facts, not your opinions, to the men... you're gonna destroy their lives, Dad! Don't do it to 'em. Give it a chance. Let the membership decide for themselves, Dad. Please.
carl		I'll be damned that when my men come to me tomorrow morning, wanting to know what's going on, I'm going to lie to them!
bud		Your men! All my life "your men" have been able to count on you? Why is it that you've never been there for me?
bud		And what if you're wrong? What if one day, the sun didn't rise in the East and birds didn't fly South in winter and for once in your life your compass was off? Huh?
carl		I don't sleep with no whore and I don't wake up with no whore. That's how I live with myself, Buddy. I don't know how you do.  I hope I'm wrong, I'll let them decide for themselves, that much I promise you.
bud		 Calm down! What are you talking about?
dixon		...this guy who said he was from the Security Exchange Commission, whatever the hell that is, calls and wants to ask me about that stock I bought...
bud		 What'd you tell him?
dixon		I told him I was in the bathroom and I'd call him right back. What the hell was I supposed to say Buddy, you got me into...
bud		Look Dixon, calm down! It's not illegal to buy stock or to be right. And it's not all that unusual to be spot checked on a big buy. Tell him you did your homework and you thought the stock was a sound investment.
dixon		What if he asks where I got the money?
bud		Tell 'em your father gave it to you.
dixon		What if they call him?
bud		They won't. That's not their jurisdiction.
dixon		You sure?
bud		Yes! Read the Constitution, it's all in there. And remember--you don't know anything, nothing.
dixon		I don't know anything!
bud		Good. Then call him back. And call me back. Don't worry.
marv		Hey you hear the news. I just got a job at a new firm: "Dewey, Cheat 'em and Howe." Yuk yuk.
bud		 Didn't I tell you to knock before you came in here?
marv		Hey the door was open.
bud		Then get out and close it behind you.
marv		 You know what you need, buddy buddy--an optorectomy. That's when they cut the nerve that runs from your brain to your rectum--to change that shitty attitude of yours.
bud		Get the hell out!
bud		So what's the problem?
roger		 ...got a strange call from the SEC. They asked to see my records... Bud, this is a heavy...
bud		 You're 82M in the account numbers and I'm the Invisible Man... they're always looking for red flags, Gekko's always getting checked by them, they never come up with anything... we're invulnerable on this...
roger		Alright... I just wanna slow down Bud... no more calls for awhile, no lunches... we suspend our business, alright...
bud		Sure Roger, whatever you want, it's cool.
lawyer		Rog, come on, bring the cost report. They started. 
roger		 Gekko asked us into the Bluestar deal. We're reviewing the timetables, wanna come?
bud		 He never told me...
roger		You're just the President of the company, what do you know? ... Come on.
roger		You guys know the new chief of Bluestar... Bud Fox.
investment banker		Look guys, what's the problem, let's for the kill...Gekko's got 12% and climbing plus the unions are in his pocket for now, everybody on the street knows the stock's in play  by next week the street's gonna own Bluestar and management won't be able to do anything but poison their own pill. Why are you guys dicking around? Is the bank financing in place or are we gonna have more and more meetings? Our firm's gonna guarantee 25% of the total debt structure in long-term junk bonds, now you guys either sign this piece of paper right now or we're gonna pull and head for
commercial banker		 ...look, we have 30 banks ready to participate in a 4 year revolving credit line but we have to have your assurance to pay back most of the loan in the first 6 months, and the only way...
investment banker		 ... 30 banks, isn't that wonderful...you got it, no problem.
commercial banker		 ...and the only way we can see this happening is liquidating the hangars and the planes. Can you people guarantee that?
investment banker		Guaranteed! No sweat...we already got the Bleezburg brothers lined up to build condos where the hangars are, we can lay off the planes with Mexicana, who are dumb enough to buy 'em and Texas Air is drooling at my kneecaps to get the slots and the routes. What's the problem? it's done..
roger		 This is the pricetag on the 737s, the gates, the hangars, the routes, we got it all nailed right down to the typewriters...
investment banker		...'course the beauty of it is the overfunded pension fund. Gekko gets the 75 million in there. Fifty million buys him the minimum annuities for 6,000 employees and he walks away with the rest. All in, he'll net 60 to 70 million. Not bad for a month's work.  Your man did his homework, Fox, you're gonna have the shortest executive career since the Pope who got poisoned...now he'll really start believing he's "Gekko the Great."
natalie		Yes, he wants to change that appointment to...  Bud--you can't go in there. He's in a meeting!
gekko		 I didn't know we had a meeting schedule for this morning.
bud		I'm sorry, this can't wait.
gekko		Will you gentlemen excuse us for a few minutes?
gekko		What the hell do you want?
bud		I found out about the garage sale down at Bluestar. Why?
gekko		Last night I read Rudy the story of Winnie the Pooh and the Honey pot. Know what happened: he stuck his nose in that honey pot once too often and got stung.
bud		Maybe you ought to read him Pinocchio. You told me you were going to turn Bluestar around. Not upside down. You used me.
gekko		You're walking around blind without a cane, sport. A fool and his money are lucky to get together in the first place.
bud		Why do you need to wreck this company?
gekko		Because it's wreckable. I took another look and I changed my mind.
bud		If these people lose their jobs, nowhere to go. My father worked at Bluestar for twenty-four years. I gave 'em my word.
gekko		 Bud, you're still going to be president. And when the time comes, you'll parachute out a rich man. With the money you're going to make, your father won't have to work another day in his life.
bud		Tell me, Gordon--when does it all end? How many yachts can you waterski behind? How much is enough?
gekko		Buddy, it's not a question of enough. It's a zero sum game, sport. Somebody wins and somebody loses. Money itself isn't lost or made, it's simply transferred from one perception to another. Like magic. That painting cost $60,000 10 years ago. I could sell it today for $600,000. The illusion has become real. And the more real it becomes, the more desperately they want it. Capitalism at its finest.
bud		 How much is enough Gordon?
gekko		The richest one percent of this country owns half the country's wealth: 5 trillion dollars. One third of that comes from hard work, two thirds of it comes from inheritance, interest on interest accumulation to widows and idiot sons and what I do -- stock and real estate speculation. It's bullshit. Ninety percent of the American people have little or no net worth. I create nothing; I own. We make the rules, Buddy, the news, war, peace, famine, upheaval; the cost of a paper clip.  ...you're not naive enough to think we're living in a democracy are you, Buddy? It's the free market. You're one of us now...take advantage of it. You got the killer instinct, kid, stick with me. I got things to teach you...
bud		Obviously...
gekko		Believe me, Buddy, I was gonna discuss this with you at the right time. Look, why don't you calm down and come to the apartment for dinner tonight. Bring Darien...
bud		 ...I can't make it tonight.
gekko		Are you with me Buddy?
gekko		I want you with me. 
bud		I'm with you Gordon...
gekko		 ...be another minute, Natalie.
gekko		This is Gordon Gekko. Now...  I want zip-locked mouths on Bluestar, or I'm gonna personally come down there and rip out your fucking throats!
darien		Bud?...What's going on?
bud		I've been played like a grand- piano--by the master, Gekko the Great...and today was the big crash. Liquidation sale. He's gonna carve Bluestar into little pieces and sell it all off...
darien		I'm sorry. I was afraid something like this could happen.
bud		Talk about being bent over the sink of life and being dry humped. I handed it to him on a silver platter. I told my father and those people...
darien		Buddy, it's not your fault, and it's not your decision.
bud		 I'm not gonna let it happen Darien.
darien		Don't cross Gordon. He'll crush you. You've worked hard to get where you are. If Gordon doesn't buy Bluestar someone else will; and who's to say they won't do the same thing.
bud		At least I wouldn't be pulling the trigger.
darien		Are you mad! Why are you doing this! We're so close, the town is going to be ours. Don't throw away your future Bud!
bud		I can stay with the brokerage firm. And you're doing fine. We can survive without Gordon Gekko.
darien		 I'm not looking to just survive. I've been doing that all my life.
bud		 What the hell's that supposed to mean?
darien		That if you make an enemy of Gordon Gekko, I won't be there to stand by you.
bud		You really mean that?  What'd he promise you? To take you public? I guess without Gordon's money and seal of approval, I'm not such a hot investment anymore. You're just the best money can buy, Darien...
darien		You're not exactly pure Bud, you went after Gekko with the same vengeance you went after me. Look in the mirror before...
bud		 I'm looking...and I sure don't like what I see.
darien		Fair enough...but it's not that simple, Bud. When I was down and had nothing, it was Gordon who helped me. He got me all my clients -- you among them...  You may find out one day -- that when you've had money and lost it, it's worse than never having had it at all.
bud		That's bullshit! Step out that door, I'm changing the locks.
darien		You may not believe this Bud but I really do care for you. I think we could've made a good team...but that's how it goes...
bud		Get the hell out!
sylvie		...well, the market's dead, hon, even the rich are bitching, nothing's moving except termites and cockroaches, and with my commission being what it is...
bud		 Save the rap, just sell it -- fast!
carolyn		Bud! Where you been the last two days?
bud		 ...Janet get my father on the phone and the two other union reps, urgent...
janet		Your mom just called, Mr. Fox. Your father... he...
bud		 What! What happened?!
carolyn		He had a heart attack, hon, but he's okay, he's at the hospital...
bud		 Oh Christ!
bud		 Mom! How is he?
mom		 ...he was complaining about chest pains at work. Next thing I know he collapsed... Oh Buddy, talk to him, he's so stubborn.
amato		 ...don't worry, he's got another 20 years in him. He's a tough ol' nut, your Dad...
bud		Hiya Dad...  I told you never to lift a 747 by yourself...
bud		...you even got me smoking now...second one Dad, you're pushing your luck, I guess you know that...I guess you gotta pull through this one Dad...for mom, for me...I guess I never told you but...I love you Dad, I love you more than I ever.  ...I didn't mean those things I said to you...you're a hero all the way Dad, you're a rock...the best.
bud		...and you were right about Gekko. He's one son of a bitch...through and through.
carl		 You speak for me, son.
gekko		Look over there sunshine. I'm up against Richard Feigen.
auctioneer		Once, twice, three times. Sold to Mr. Gordon Gekko.
gekko		What do you say we go get a suite at the Carlyle? Caviar? Champagne? Celebrate, just like the old times Sunshine.
darien		 Those days are over, Gordon. They were over a long time ago.
gekko		 Can't blame me for trying. You look as beautiful as that painting I just bought.
darien		 It's not puppy love, Gordon. Anyway, Buddy and I are splitting up.
gekko		 Sorry to hear that. I thought the kid had staying power.
darien		It's over you, Gordon.
gekko		 You told him about us?
darien		No, are you crazy? And I don't want him ever to know. Do you understand?...
gekko		 Now tell me, why would I want to do that?
darien		Because I don't want to see him hurt.
gekko		Don't worry Sunshine. Bud and I had a little talk. We came to an understanding.  I want you to go back to him. Soothe him. Help keep his head straight. Okay?
darien		I can't...and I won't.
gekko		Come on, we both like Buddy. But this bleeding heart puppy love act is over the top... It doesn't fit.
darien		Maybe it does. Don't patronize me Gordon.
gekko		You and I are the same, Darien. We're smart enough not to buy into the oldest myth running: love... A fiction created by people who got nothing to keep them from jumping out of windows.
darien		You're really twisted, Gordon. You're incapable of giving to anybody because deep down inside you there's a poverty that every last dollar in the world won't fill.
gekko		Ooh ooh, tough talk from a scared little girl all wrapped in a pretty grown-up package. Does this mean you're ready to cut the umbilical cord and step out into the world on your own? Because, Darien, if you're through with me, you're through with everything I'm a part of.
darien		I know...but maybe, just maybe Gordon, I'm good enough so I don't need you anymore.
bud		...the stock's at 19 1/4 and it's going up. Gekko figures by breaking up Bluestar, it's worth at least $30 a share. That means he'll buy up to 23 or 24 and still think he's making money.
wilmore		How do you know that the stock is going to go up?
bud		 You really don't want to know any more than that, Mr. Wilmore. Let's just say I have some friends.
wilmore		 Okay. What happens then?
bud		When the stock hits 23, you guys go to Gekko and lower the boom. Once he learns he has no union concession, he's going to head for the hills. He'll sell everything he's got.
carpenter		Yeah. But who's going to buy then and what's to prevent another shark from coming along and devouring us?
bud		We have an appointment to see Mr. Wildman.
bud		Sir Lawrence, what would you say to owning Bluestar Airlines with union concessions--at $18 a share...and in the process hanging Gordon Gekko out in the wind to twist.... ?
wildman		I might be very interested, but why? Why you mate -- how'd you get mixed up with Gekko? He doesn't know the difference between raiding and insider trading. I do. The SEC does. I hope you do...
bud		Let's just say Mr. Gekko and I have a conflict of interest. I want to see this airline work...  ...the figures here show it can.
wildman		 ... and you're prepared to take these large salary cuts.
wilmore		...we are. But we want a contract agreement -- iron-clad -- that if you buy it, you can't break it up.
wildman		 I'm still listening...
marv		Well, if that's how you feel--the hell with you too. And strong letter to follow.
bud		You don't have to agree with me, Marv; but I think I've been a bit of a schmuck lately. 
marv		 I agree. Go thou and sin no more.
bud		I want to make it up to you. Bluestar, put all your clients in it.
marv		 Thanks, buddy, buddy, I'm back. Say, Buddy, those optorectomies do work wonders.
bud		Bluestar, Mr. Mannheim. Put all your clients in it.
mannheim		I don't know where you get your information, son, but I don't like it. The only reason I'm gonna do it is...I need the money, that's the problem with money--it makes you do things you don't want to do.
marv		 Miss Bloom, Marvin. You got cancer in your portfolio, but I got the cure...Bluestar Airlines...
bud		Listen I need a favor and it's a quick scalp for you. Two hundred thousand at 19 1/2; can you position it in one of your equity funds?
bud		Hold on...  ...listen "blue horseshoe loves Bluestar Airlines"...
wsj reporter		Bluestar's in play.
marv		I love it...I do love it so!
bud		 Yeah. I see it at 22 1/8 and I don't know what to make of it.
gekko		The word's out. Your union buddies are talking. Get me in at a 45 degree angle and I mean all the way in! Slash and burn, buy everything you can get up to 22. Then call me. When I get the sonofabitch who leaked this I'm gonna kill him! I'm gonna tear his eyeballs out, I'm gonna suck his skull!!
marv		The stock's going to Pluto!
bud		Start unloading.
marv		Sell?
bud		Now! Tell everyone to dump!
bud		Get out of Bluestar!
gekko		Who the hell's out there? What are the arbs saying? It's gotta be a big hitter.
alex		They don't know what's going on!
susan		Everybody and his mother is buying!
natalie		Mr. Gekko, there's a whole bach of people from Bluestar Airlines outside demanding to see you.
gekko		What the hell do they want?
wilmore		We know what you're up to, Gekko, and let me tell you this from here,  you suck eggs, mister, over my dead body you ain't gonna break up Bluestar.
gekko		You guys must know something nobody else knows. If those are my plans, it's the first I've heard of it.
carpenter		Would you care to put that in writing?
gekko		I'd like to remind you we already have an agreement, which I expect you to honor.
wilmore		Well in that case, I hope you have your pilot's license.
amato		Don't worry, Gekko, we wouldn't let the engines fall out of the plane.
carpenter		 But the reservations systems can get awfully screwed up, if we're not paying attention.
charley dent		And a lot of baggage headed to St. Petersburg could easily find its way to Pittsburgh.
gekko		Listen, you clowns, there's somebody else out there trying to buy your airline, if you want to be Pac-manned and gobbled by Atilla the Hun be my guest!
wilmore		We'll take our chances.  Nice to see you again, Mr. Gekko.
alex		 Fox says Bluestar just hit 23. What do you want him to do?
gekko		 What the hell, so I'll only make ten million.
bud		Gekko's on the ropes--he's trying to sell, but there's not many takers, the stock's plummeting.
wildman		Well then... guess I'll have to carry him a few rounds before he drops.
wildman		Bluestar. Don't make a big deal. Buy it lightly on the way down.  When it hits 18--buy it all.
ollie		The arbs are getting killed. Where'd the buyers go!
alex		 We're being devoured, Gordon.
harold		There's got to be a way out of this, Gordon.
gekko		 Look, you got me into this airline, and you damn well better get me out. Because if you don't the only job you're going to get on the Street is sweeping it! You hear me, Fox--
bud		 You once told me don't get emotional about stock. Gordon, don't. The bid is 17 and going down. As your broker, I advise you to take it.
bud		 Gordon, it's two minutes to close. What do you want to do?! Decide.
gekko		 Dump it.
newscaster		The big Wall Street story tonight is the  roller coaster ride of Bluestar Airlines. Fueled by takeover rumors, the stock soared to an all-time high of 24 1/8. Then when contradictory rumors later surfaced that the takeover was unfounded, buyers went running for cover, and the stock plummeted on gigantic volume to as low as 16 1/2
newscaster		...but then tonight, amidst all the scuttlebutt, another rumble shook  According to many sources, raider Sir Lawrence Wildman has stepped in and bought a substantial block of Bluestar and is going to announce a deal tomorrow at 18 that includes the support of the unions.
bud		Smile, Carolyn, there's justice in the world...
bud		How's it going Mr. Mannheim? Got out of Bluestar in time I hope?
bud		I think I understand what you mean Mr. Mannheim.
bud		Get my father will you Janet?
patterson		 He just came in. I'll talk to you later.
bud		I guess you're not here to open an IRA.
patterson		Mr Fox, I'm Henry Patterson from the Postal Inspection Service... this is Evan Morrissey with The Securities and Exchange Investigation Office.  ... Mr. Ebanhopper from the US Attorney's Office.
morrissey		Mr. Fox, you're under arrest for conspiracy to commit securities fraud and for violating the Insider Trader's Sanction Act.
gekko		Hello Bud.
bud		Gordon.
gekko		You sandbagged me on Bluestar.  I guess you think you taught the teacher a lesson, that you can make the tail wag the dog, huh?
bud		 I don't know. My Dad once told me, "money is something you need in case you don't die tomortow." I guess I realized I'm just Bud Fox. And as much as I wanted to be Gordon Gekko--I'll always be Bud Fox.
morrissey		You did the right thing, Bud.
mom		 ...don't wear that tie Buddy, it...
carl		Another cup of coffee?
bud		No, thanks, I'm nervous enough.
carl		 I guess it's time to hit the road.
bud		Yeah, don't want to be late for my own funeral.
carl		 ...you told the truth, you gave the money back. All things considered-- in this cockamamie world--you're shooting par...
mom		...you helped save the airline and the people at the airline are gonna remember you for it.
carl		...if I was you, I'd think about that Bluestar job Wildman's offered you...
bud		Dad, I'm going to jail and you know it.
carl		 Maybe that's the price, Bud, maybe so. It's gonna be rough on you but maybe in some screwed up way, that's the best thing that can happen to you...stop trading for the quick buck and go produce something with your life, create, don't live off the buying and selling of others...
mom		...you can do it, Bud, once you set your mind to something, I believe you can do anything in the world...
carl		 ...got any friends gonna be there?
bud		 Like who? Who really wants to know a convicted felon...I don't even like myself.
carl		So, why don't you get out here and go in with your friend, I'll park the car. Try to be cool, okay?
darien		 Hi.
bud		Why?
darien		I figure a guy who's made some mistakes should be able to understand a girl who's made some of her own...
****Dialogues from script :Wall_Street__Money_Never_Sleeps.txt****

darkness		Which holds for an uncomfortably long moment, then... "Money Never Sleeps" graces the screen... and we move down below the letters to find...
a chart		Now filling the screen. It's of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. It's for the year 2008 and it's down to the right... not good. A circle marks Friday June 13th. Follow a blue line back three days and stop. Another circle is now formed and Matthew Good's "Giant" rings out...
midtown		Opening titles... the workplace throng... listening to their iPods, checking their Blackberrys and sipping their Starbucks.
zabel		Go ahead, open it. And across from Andrew Zabel sits JACOB L. MOORE... who holds his bonus check.
jacob		Really? On the wall over Zabel's shoulder runs an electronic ticker with the major indices and just one stock... ticker KZI... Keller Zabel Investments.
zabel		Screw the credit derivative desk, I don't understand half the shit they do anyway. Zabel forces a smile. But Jacob can tell something's wrong with him.
jacob		Are you okay? Zabel doesn't answer... he just nods to the envelope.
zabel		Open it. He opens the envelope and looks down at the check.
jacob		Thank you. And we get a good look at Jacob now... boyish features that display humility with a trace of mischievousness thrown in. He's definitely sexy, definitely cerebral and definitely winning.
zabel		I'm proud of you, Jacob. And Jacob tries to play it cool as he looks up at the
jacob		Yeah, it's nice. But here's the thing... He looks around the store for a moment, then...
salesman		The "fuck you" room?
jacob		Yes. The room where you sell me a fuck you ring for fuck you money.
salesman		The private client foyer. And with a big smile...
jacob		What did I say?
willy		Jake, Glass Works is up nine points on earnings, you want to unload some?
jacob		Yeah, let's get closer to home. A trader named AUDRY turns to Jacob.
audry		 Where's his hat? Willy glares at her.
willy		Mind your own business, Audry.
audry		I had to wear Pfizer on my forehead for a full week... so post it up, bitch. Willy pleads with Jacob...
willy		C'mon Jake, it's embarrassing. Jacob just shrugs...
jacob		The stock goes down, you wear the crown... them's the rules. Audry grins in victory. Willy shakes his head, grabs a marker, scribbles something down on a post-it then places it on his forehead. It reads "I bought Toll Brothers at $24" and he has to wear it all week. And Jacob laughs... now looking up at the electronic
quant analyst		Girl like that cost a thousand bucks last year... now it's up to five.
jacob		Getting priced out of the hooker bubble? Confirming in frustration...
quant analyst		Goddamn bull market's killing my sex life. They all laugh.
derivatives trader		 It's true. I'm actually shocked KZI gave you a bonus of that size.
jacob		Why? Private Equity CFO nudges Hedge Fund PM in reference to the woman who just took the seat at the next table...
quant analyst		Really? The 787 is having problems. As Hedge Fund PM opens a bottle of Krug, Clos du Mesnil 1995 and pours it into the flutes.
jacob		 Why? Why are you so shocked? Offering Jacob a flute...
jacob		We're not in serious trouble. It's a rumor. A woman takes the table next to them and this makes Derivatives Trader perk up and say.
derivatives trader		I think Goodyear Tire is definitely a buy. Hedge Fund PM checks out the woman.
quant analyst		Goodyear? The chart is horrible.
quant analyst		 Oh, it's like a code. And Private Equity CFO turns to Jacob with...
jacob		Whatever, somebody was adding to their short. As a supermodel now joins the next table.
quant analyst		It's an exchange traded fund that tracks the Guinian Franc.
quant analyst		Gold Digger Freak Show. The guys just shake their heads...
jacob		Can I ask you something, Robby? Robby nods.
robby		Huh?
jacob		You know what I mean. The amount of money you would need to fuck it all and walk away... if you wanted to.
robby		Do you want to walk away?
jacob		Not now. But one day... I don't know. When I have a family. It's just so consuming... so many marriages get
robby		Wall Street divorce lawyers do great in any market.
jacob		Exactly.
robby		Aha... when did you buy the ring? Jacob smiles at his friend's perception.
jacob		Last week.
robby		So when are you going to ask her?
jacob		I'm going to DC this weekend.
robby		Good. I like her for you. She's one of the good ones...
jacob		Sour grapes.
robby		He's speaking at Columbia on Friday. If it's slow enough, a few of us might play hookie and check it out... he's the best show in town. And they continue to walk, until...
jacob		Tell me what you hear. Robby slowly nods...
robby		I don't think you want to hear it, bro. You worship Zabel and it's not good.
jacob		I don't worship him. He's done a lot for me and I've known him a long time. But he's been acting strange lately.
robby		That Keller Zabel is holding toxic waste they can't find a market for.
jacob		It's not true. It's rumors. There are hedge funds with huge short positions...
robby		Jacob, you know better. You know it doesn't matter if they're rumors or not. And Robby stops walking.
jacob		I don't remember. Turning to Jacob with...
robby		"An asset's value can only be priced at its perception."
jacob		I said that? Robby confirms... then...
robby		So buddy -- it don't matter if the rumors are true or not. Because in this climate... if they exist at all... then most likely... Looking his friend head on...
diego		J to the Acob -- morning to you, brother. Jacob smiles...
jacob		Diego...
diego		Okay, what's the best aphrodisiac on Wall Street?
jacob		I don't know.
diego		Jet fuel. Diego cracks up. Jacob just shakes his head and moves on. And Jacob walks uptown... deep in thought. It's a gorgeous June Friday. Suddenly, Jacob just stops walking and stands there for a long moment... coming to a decision. And as Jacob turns around and starts heading the other way...
jacob		I'm here to see Andrew Zabel.
doorman		Is he expecting you?
jacob		No.
zabel		Jacob...
jacob		Andy. I'm sorry to come by like this but the rumors are now hitting a fever pitch and I wanted to make sure everything was okay. Zabel nods and heads for the door.
zabel		Come on...
jacob		Is everything okay? And Andrew Zabel doesn't seem all there... introspective and blank.
zabel		I remember when the starter gave me this bushy hair twelve year old kid and I said; "Donny, what the fuck -- give me a real caddy." And he said; "This kid's the best."
zabel		And you were. You had the wind down, the grade of every green.
jacob		What's going on?
zabel		But you wouldn't shut up about stocks. Twelve years old and you blabbed on and on about companies and sectors and earnings.
jacob		Andy, are we going under?
zabel		What was that piece of shit you loved? That airline equipment supplier who was branching out into car airbags--
jacob		Flour Controls. Are you okay? Zabel laughs.
zabel		Flour Controls... what a dog.
jacob		Why did you give me that bonus? Zabel stops walking and faces Jacob with...
zabel		Because I know you, Jacob. And I know you've been holding off because you didn't think you had enough. We all do that... postpone life until we believe we have what it takes to actually live it.
jacob		There isn't a better money-runner on the street... we'll get through this.
zabel		Marry her, Jacob. And have children with her and spend as much time as you can with them... and never forget that that's what's important. And Jacob L. Moore... looking his boss head on...
jacob		Andrew, if there's anyway I can help -- give back the bonus -- whatever... all you have to do is say the word. And Zabel just looks away...
zabel		There's just so much you don't know, Jacob.
jacob		Stunned... horrified... his universe becoming unglued. And he turns to Audry... helpless and in shock.
jacob		Who did this to us? She can only shrug... tears in her eyes. Jacob shifts his gaze over to the trading floor's electronic ticker on the wall... KZI $26.34... -$29.57. And he moves for the elevator banks... unable to take it anymore.
jacob		Andrew, call me back. I'm going to find out who did this to us. I swear to God... if it's the last thing I do.
jacob		What? From the door...
jacob		It broke. Robby sharply nods.
robby		Dude... He stops short... swallows...
jacob		What?
robby		I just found this out and it hasn't hit the press yet. Once again... he stops short and looks away in frustration.
jacob		What? Robby, what are you trying to say?
robby		Andrew Zabel threw himself in front of the subway this morning. Jacob just stands in that doorway. No reaction at all. Absolutely frozen.
professor		Our speaker today has quite a checkered background in the world of finance. Some laughter from the room.
gordon gekko		No swagger in his step... not in a suit... hair not slicked back... but still looks fucking good. As he waits for the applause to wind down... and even a little longer... surveying every corner of the large room... commanding its full attention... getting it... holding the silence... until finally... he leans into the mic and says...
gordon gekko		You're all pretty much fucked. The room breaks into laughter... Gordon smiles and waits for it to die down.  GORDON GEKKO  So greed has been redefined. Who knows -- maybe it was always like this and like everything else in this world, it's good and it is evil. Taking a moment to survey the room... 
gordon gekko		 I'll give you six minutes then I really have to go.
jacob		Mr. Gekko, can I speak to you for a moment? As he keeps walking...
gordon gekko		You're too late, Sport... Q&A's over.
jacob		My name is Jacob Moore and I'm dating your daughter.
gordon gekko		I'll give you nine minutes.
gordon gekko		Keller, Zabel? Then you have my apologies.
jacob		Yeah...
gordon gekko		Stock's in a free fall. My guess is that it just lost its Bar Mitzvah... Jacob quickly takes out his blackberry, turns it on and
jacob		Andrew Zabel took me under his wing when I was in high school. He basically got me my scholarship to Yale then hired me right out of business school.
gordon gekko		Andrew's smart, he beats the benchmarks consistently. He'll land on his feet.
jacob		He's dead. And Gordon stops walking and regards Jacob. Who confirms...
gordon gekko		I'm sorry to hear that.
jacob		He was a father to me.
gordon gekko		My daughter hasn't spoken to me for eleven years and you know it. She blames me for her brother's overdose and every other disaster that's fallen upon the world since the mid-nineties.
jacob		What?
gordon gekko		She hates me. And she hates Wall Street and everything it represents... so don't you find it curious that she would fall in love with you? And that slams into Jacob... who's frozen for a beat. Jacob finally snaps out of it then joins Gordon.
jacob		Yes.
gordon gekko		I guess I should know a little about you first. Where did you grow up?
jacob		Matinecock.
gordon gekko		I'm impressed.
jacob		It wasn't like that. I mean we didn't have much money. My mother was a tailor.
gordon gekko		And your father... what did he do?
jacob		Disappear. And Gordon regards Jacob for a long moment, taking him in, until...
gordon gekko		Clever. Jacob looks down the street.
jacob		Your town car. With a laugh...
gordon gekko		Well, pal... As Gordon pats Jacob on the back...
gordon gekko		She was eight in that one. It was taken in Egypt.
jacob		Can I... have it?
gordon gekko		What do I get in return?
jacob		You... wanna make a trade? And Gordon thinks about, then...
gordon gekko		Yes. I'll give you this picture and in return... I'd like a picture of Winnie... taken recently... without you in it.
jacob		I don't have one on me. Gordon sighs, takes the picture out of his wallet and hands it to Jacob.
gordon gekko		Then I'll give you this one on margin.
platform		As they wait for the train... Jacob produces the ring box and opens it to show Gordon the ring.
jacob		I really did come to ask for your blessing.
gordon gekko		No, you didn't. Nice ring... As the train arrives...
gordon gekko		Don't play me, Jake. You don't think I can see it in your eyes? You don't think I know that look?
jacob		Smell what on me?
gordon gekko		Revenge. Jacob just looks away.
jacob		You knew he was dead? "Guardian Mortgage... Low down payments... Adjustable rates."
gordon gekko		Like I said -- I still love to watch from home. And now Gordon turns to face Jacob with...
jacob		I know who.
gordon gekko		Really?
jacob		It was either Nassim Tariq from the Frontier Fund, Bretton Woods from Locust or Karen Molina from ESL.
gordon gekko		Does Winnie even know you came to see me?
jacob		Well, not exactly.
gordon gekko		Not such a grand idea, Pal. Off Jacob's confusion...
jacob		I'm going to bring them down. Whoever floated the rumor for a quick buck.
gordon gekko		It's not worth it. It's a waste of energy and time. See, Jacob, nobody gets it... they never did. As the subway doors open...
priest		Andrew didn't have children, so he made all you -- all of us -- his children.
audry		Two dollars a share?
willy		The Fed didn't give us a choice. Jacob walks around the room... taking in the pictures of Andrew Zabel's life...
audry		Does that include the building?
daniel		What about the Zabel's institutional managed fund? How much is in that?
willy		Eight billion.
audry		And that's all intact.
daniel		Jesus, United Bancorp made out like a bandit.
willy		We could've handled it at $60 a share or even $50. He just shakes his head...
daniel		Lemmings.
daniel		Yeah, we're all out of a job. Jacob pulls away from the wall of pictures...
jacob		My mother was a tailor. They all look at him.
audry		You're from Matinecock? I thought you didn't grow up with mon-- Jacob confirms...
jacob		We weren't rich. Everyone else was.
barbara		Jacob... Jacob takes her into his embrace...
jacob		I was a fucked up kid, I was angry, my mother couldn't control me. He was the only one who cared. I wouldn't be anywhere right now if it wasn't for... And Jacob Moore stops short... finally breaking down... allowing his own tears to stream down his face. He pulls away...
winnie		Jacob, I'm so sorry.
jacob		Lehigh had the committee hearings and I knew he would need you and I didn't
winnie		That's not how this works. And she looks into his eyes.
jacob		Will you marry me?
winnie		What?
jacob		I got a ring. Not on me, but--
winnie		Are you proposing to me at a funeral?
jacob		Yeah.
winnie		He would've loved you doing this here. Jacob agrees. And she softly kisses him and squeezes him tight... tears in her eyes.
jacob		By the way, I don't have a job anymore.
winnie		Awesome.
jacob's apartment		Winnie looks up from the ring.
jacob		Yeah...
winnie		It's too expensive. We'll return it.
jacob		No.
winnie		Jacob I don't care about what ring you give me. You know that.
jacob		We're not taking it back. I worked hard for that ring and I want you to wear it. She regards him... he's serious.
winnie		Okay.
jacob		Hey Audry. She looks up.
audry		I did.
jacob		Who are the big players in diabetes treatments?
audry		Lilly, Abbot, OSI, Inverness.
jacob		Is anyone riding on something in phase three?
audry		Few midcaps maybe. You want me to check? He nods. She turns on her computer and takes a seat.
jacob		How did they die?
audry		I don't remember.
jacob		Pancreatitis?
audry		Yeah. That was it. Jacob shakes his head...
jacob		How did he know?
audry		Who? Without answering her...
jacob		Can you look up large institutional ownership?
audry		Mutual or hedge?
jacob		Hedge.
audry		Locust Fund owns a shitload. And she looks over to Jacob with...
jacob		Want your severance, Audry? And he kisses her on the forehead...
jacob		I don't know exactly but it's not something you wanna come down with.
jacob		Any day now.
evolution studios		While showering Jacob with quick jabs...
blogger		Where's your information from?
loft		Holding the wine he's supposed to be sampling but not drinking it...
jacob		A doctor that's very close to the trials... and that's all I can say.
christies		As they move on from the Polke...
evolution studios		As he removes his head gear and wipes away the sweat.
loft		As they receive the next glass of wine...
jacob		Your boy's coming up in the polls. Senator Lehigh nods.
senator lehigh		They're blaming this mess on the current administration... it's helping us. And some people say that the worst isn't over.
jacob		Her father. What's the word he uses... systemic. Winnie looks over to Jacob.
winnie		When did he say that? And Jacob takes for an extra long moment... holding her look... then comes to a decision and lies...
jacob		On Charlie Rose.
senator lehigh		 Okay -- so when's the big date?
winnie		If he wins... she has a real chance for a cabinet position and I'm pretty sure she'll take me with her if she can.
jacob		He's going to win. As she hands him the glass of water...
winnie		Don't jinx it. And Jacob sees Amlyn Pharmaceuticals graphic on the screen and turns up the tv.
winnie		Can we watch something else? Jacob brings her in and kisses her...
jacob		Whatever you want. Her phone rings. As she goes to answer it...
jacob		Not Project Runway. Picking up the phone...
winnie		Hello... who is this? Hold on. As she pulls the phone away from her ear and looks over to Jacob...
jacob		I'm here to see Bretton Woods. The butler nods then leads Jacob through the full floor unit and into the...
bretton woods		As you can see, I'm having a little dinner party here but I thought it was important we speak right away. He speaks with a British accent.. Jacob nods. Bretton looks over the room for a moment, scans his guests then back at Jacob...
jacob		Do you collect?
bretton woods		No. Sitting behind his desk...
jacob		Your daughter's an amazing piano player. That was quite a show.
bretton woods		That wasn't my daughter. That was Isabel Patrovsky, she's the world's greatest living piano prodigy.
jacob		No.
bretton woods		Who told you?
jacob		A doctor I know. Bretton nods... regards him.
bretton woods		I checked with all the desks in town... you didn't make money off it.
jacob		That's right.
bretton woods		Then why did you do it?
jacob		You destroyed my firm.
bretton woods		Your firm destroyed itself.
jacob		You killed Andrew Zabel.
bretton woods		Andrew Zabel killed himself. And Bretton sighs...
jacob		You made them true.
bretton woods		No, Jacob, being levered thirty-eight to one in toxic debt made them true.
jacob		What?
bretton woods		I run three billion dollars. Come help me run it. And Jacob takes a beat... processing this...
jacob		Why me?
bretton woods		Because your loyalty desired revenge, your balls actually attempted it and your skills pulled it off. As he stands...
jacob		You can have my answer now, Bretton... I have no interest in working for a fund that's in trouble. Bretton smiles...
bretton woods		Touche. Jacob nods... holding Bretton's look. Then...
jacob		What's your number?
bretton woods		Excuse me?
jacob		The amount of money you would need to be able to walk away from it all and just live happily-ever-after.
bretton woods		More. ... and disappears into his penthouse.
diego		You know what I overheard a guy say yesterday?
jacob		I know you're going to tell me... Diego smiles...
diego		"This market's just like a divorce. I've lost half my money... only I still have my wife!" As he goes into the hot summer day...
jacob		Not bad...
gordon gekko		There's a wait.
jacob		Oh...
gordon gekko		Fifteen minutes she said.
jacob		Okay.
gordon gekko		No, that's not okay. Because it means they're crowded so every tier in the service chain will be extended. The sixteen minutes we would normally wait to order will now be twenty six, the standard twenty four minutes waiting for our food to arrive will turn into thirty nine, the eight minutes to get the check will become seventeen and the four minutes to process the credit card will take nine.
gordon gekko		Did you eat before?
jacob		Just not hungry.
gordon gekko		Yeah... I used to not eat lunch too. Jacob nods and slides something across the table. The picture of Winnie in workout gear, flipping the finger. Gordon looks at it and laughs.
jacob		I actually owe you one now. Off Gordon's look...
gordon gekko		Did you?
jacob		His fund is bleeding. I wouldn't be surprised if the redemptions finish the job.
gordon gekko		Well, Chief... you seem awfully proud of yourself.
jacob		How'd you know about Amlyn? Gordon shrugs.
gordon gekko		It's amazing what information you can find out when people know you're not going to trade on it.
jacob		So, you didn't use me to make a little money? And never to look up from his lunch...
gordon gekko		Naw. I prefer to write about the action now than be apart of it.
jacob		Why'd you give it to me?
gordon gekko		You're out of a job and most likely going to marry my daughter... I figured you could use the money.
jacob		I didn't make any money off of it.
gordon gekko		You didn't trade it? With a smile in and over-the-top faux innocence.
jacob		That would've been insider trading, Mr. Gekko. Gordon just shakes his head.
gordon gekko		So did you take my advice and not tell your new fiance about our little friendship. Jacob doesn't say anything. And Gordon doesn't press.
jacob		Good guess.
gordon gekko		That's my Winnie. I knew she was a feminist when she was five and furious that Mrs. Claus didn't get enough credit. And this makes Jacob smile... then...
slick		Gordon... Gekko nods. Slick hits his floor... "PH."
gordon gekko		You know it.
slick		 Sells books I guess.
gordon gekko		She refused to take that cowboy hat off. She actually slept in it. Smitten, Jacob looks at some more of the pictures then stands... taking in the large framed pictures on the wall. As Jacob checks out a framed chart for "Gouda Tulip Bulbs Dec 1 1634 to Feb 5 1637." The chart goes straight up and to the right then straight down in a single line.
jacob		Bretton offered to hire me.
gordon gekko		And did you accept? As Jacob moves over to an another piece.
jacob		Fuck no. Jacob now finds himself looking at a political cartoon from the early 1900s. It's of two men rowing a boat in a lake of dollars. One of the men is Uncle Sam dressed in US flag colors. But Sam's very small in this cartoon... can't really row the boat. The other man is much bigger and clearly doing the heavy rowing. He is...
gordon gekko		JP Morgan... he single-handedly stopped the Panic of 1907 by stepping in and buying up shares in all the companies that were crashing. Everyone else quickly followed like lemmings.  See -- people had stopped looking to their government or trusted advisors. They looked to JP Morgan. It was all about simple psychology -- every crash should have a JP Morgan to step in and save it. As they walk the hardwood floor...
jacob		That's horrifying.
gordon gekko		I know. As they both hold on the picture...
jacob		What caused it?
gordon gekko		A country in debt... that took on even more debt to fund a war... then printed mountains of money to avoid a depression and other financial imbalances... As he turns to face Jacob...
jacob		And you honestly think this is where we're heading? Looking Jacob head on... deadly serious...
gordon gekko		If we don't take our heads out of the sand... yes. It's going to get bad out there, Champ, I'm not going to lie. Even the small regional bank I started out at might go under.
jacob		Hudson River Bank...
gordon gekko		That's right. And then...
jacob		What are you talking about?
gordon gekko		What I'm talking about, Jake... is that I'd bet dollars to donuts that Bretton Woods unwound most of his position in Amlyn last week. That he knew about the pancreatitis. Off of Jacob's confusion...
jacob		How do you know that?
gordon gekko		I don't. But it's not Bretton's first rodeo... and my instincts for this sort of thing don't often disappoint. Jacob can't believe it. And with each passing moment of realization... shock turns into rage.
jacob		I can't believe it.
gordon gekko		Believe it, Princess... he's beating your ass all over the court. As Jacob tries to calm himself.
jacob		And you think I should take the job -- bring him down from the inside? Gordon confirms that with a simple shake of the head and...
gordon gekko		I don't know, Jake... what you kids think is pay-back these days is really incredible. When I was coming up, we slaughtered men.
robby		Jacob, I could lose my job. ... who holds his sleeping infant in his hands.
jacob		Robby, I need to know. Now nobody moves size in this town without using your desk.
robby		Fire away...
jacob		Bretton Woods... The Locust Fund... did they make any major moves in the last few weeks?
robby		Yes.
jacob		Was it unloading Amlyn pharmaceuticals?
jacob		Robby, I got you the fucking the job! And after a long moment.
robby		Yes. Jacob stops walking... sucks in a deep breath...
jacob		I'm sorry to make you do that. With that, he disconnects and shakes his head in frustration. And after a moment, Jacob sucks in a deep breath then makes another call.
fireworks		Exploding over the Capitol building.
winnie		My parents would always throw this huge party in the Hamptons on the fourth. The city of South Hampton would have its firework show at 8pm then my father would wait until it was over then put on his... which, of course, was always twice as spectacular. She leans up, sips her wine, then...
jacob		What'd he do?
winnie		He rented a barge and shot the fireworks off of it a mile off the coast... out of jurisdiction.  The show was even more amazing over the water. And Jacob looks at her.
jacob		I think he should be invited to the wedding.
winnie		No.
jacob		Winnie, he's your father... As the fireworks explode into their finale...
winnie		You don't know him.
jacob		I know he's unhappy. Look at him out there... trying to scare everybody. He's desperate for attention.
winnie		This is none of your business.
jacob		"That's not how this works." Remember? She just looks away...
winnie		And that's what he deserves. Suddenly, everyone begins to look over to the house where something is happening...
jacob		It was a long time ago. He stands and kisses her...
winnie		C'mon, you can meet the next President of the United States.
six foot		Jacob... are you ready? Jacob stands and she leads him toward a bank of elevators. The doors open and Jacob gets on.
six foot		Do you have everything they said you'd need? Jacob nods... holding a folder of his previous tax forms, his passport and other documents obviously needed for the job. And the elevator doors open... but not to an office... Jacob shields his eyes to the wash of daylight... then looks to realize that he's on the roof of the building. And in front of him is... An Augusta A109E Helicopter with "The Locust Fund" written on the side.
dining room		Where Bretton eats alone at the head of the long table.
bretton woods		Jacob. As Jacob walks through the expansive space...
jacob		Mr. Woods.
bretton woods		 Bretton. ... and sits.
jacob		Okay... Bretton. I thought we were going to meet in New York.
bretton woods		And I thought you had no interest in working for a fund that was in trouble.
jacob		I was emotional. I was angry.
bretton woods		And what changed?
jacob		I caught a glance of my portfolio.
bretton woods		Dogue de Bordeaux... bred to kill. But Contango and Backwardation here are socialized since birth so they're harmless. Jacob laughs...
jacob		You named your dogs after technical futures market terms? And Bretton stands...
bretton woods		Of course not...  My children did. As he heads into...
jacob		And where are your children? Bretton moves toward a table with a classic phonograph player on it.
bretton woods		Greece with my wife. My boys are studying The Iliad now. While Bretton looks through the various sleeves of records, Contango and Backwardation slowly find their way into the room and sit by the fire. Bretton finds what he's looking for... removing the record from its sleeve.
jacob		An asset's value can only be priced at its perception.
jacob		Thank you.
bretton woods		She's Gordon Gekko's daughter.
jacob		That's right.
bretton woods		He was a legend at one time. It's quite sad how he publicly cries out wolf now. Bretton stands and stretches.
gordon gekko		Good work, kid -- you're on the inside now.
jacob		He's going to Dubai to raise some money then meeting me in New York to set me up. Gordon sits at the dining room table at his apartment. Papers scattered about and his EDITOR waiting patiently.
gordon gekko		No.
jacob		What?
gordon gekko		He's not meeting you in New York.
jacob		Why not?
gordon gekko		Because you need to go to Dubai with him.
jacob		I don't understand.
jacob		Looks better than meals I get on United.
bretton woods		John's Pizza on Bleeker. It crossed the Atlantic with you yesterday. Would you like a slice? Jacob declines... then...
jacob		Well -- there's a lot I can learn from you.
bretton woods		For this trip just stay in the background and observe. As Bretton tosses some pizza to Contango and Backwardation...
bretton woods		He's been after us for years...
bretton woods		Oh Jacob... you don't want to live in a glass house if you're gonna play this game.
jacob		I don't understand. Is he resigning?
bretton woods		Yes sir.
jacob		What'd he do? And Bretton simply turns to him and says...
bretton woods		Outsourced.
bretton woods		Remember. Hedge funds are not banking and this isn't Ivy-league-geography- ninth-hole deal making.
bretton woods		Oleg's a brute, he's has A.D.D. and he likes to party. As they stop in front of large double doors... the BELLMAN opens the doors to reveal...
bretton woods		If he offers you a drink -- take it. And with that, Bretton points across the room where OLEG BAKUNIN sits.
oleg		Bretton Woods has arrived. Bretton smiles. They head over. Oleg turns to one of the MODEL GIRLS next to him.
bretton woods		A hundred and twenty-nine dollars a barrel.
oleg		 Forget what I said -- I'm much richer than him. Oleg then looks at Jacob.
jacob		Oleg, I'm Jacob Moore. It's nice to meet you. Oleg regards Jacob for a beat, then back to Bretton and asks again...
oleg		Who the fuck is this? Bretton smiles...
bretton woods		Jacob has recently come over from KZI to work with me. And now Oleg turns to Jacob.
oleg		KZI? You worked with Andrew Zabel? Jacob takes a beat. Then...
jacob		That's right.
oleg		He was a legend. Jacob just nods, not showing any emotion. Oleg motions for the girls to make room and they all sit...
oleg		5000 square feet, 30 days of oxygen capacity.
oleg		Bretton, I have... what?... two hundred million with you.
bretton woods		And hopefully that's just a start. Oleg, there are so many opportunities out there right now I feel like a kid in the candy store. Oleg waves him off.
oleg		You know I like to spread it around... I'm like my own fund of funds. I don't like to have too much with one manager. As Oleg shakes cocaine out of an envelope...
jacob		I couldn't agree more, Oleg. It's one of the first things that Andrew Zabel taught me. I worked very closely with him. It's why Bretton hired me. To get behind the Andrew Zabel curtain. Bretton flashes Jacob a look... "What the hell are you doing?" Jacob swallows back some nerves then continues...
oleg		Such as... ?
jacob		Well, I'm not going to give you the whole cake, Oleg... He looks over to Bretton who still glares at Jacob...
oleg		Interesting. ... then does another line.
nadia		We're here for the party. Confused...
jacob		What party?
paulina		Oleg said you needed a party... Cozying up to her friend with a smile...
nadia		... and we're it. Jacob nervously thinks, then...
jacob		Come in.
jacob		I know... but if you're going to correctly utilize this technical head and shoulders strategy, you need to hold the stock until...  ... right here.
paulina		I always sell too soon.
jacob		Very common mistake. You need to cut your losers short and let your winners run. She looks to her friend with a smile...
nadia		Good advice for everything... no? Her friend agrees with a laugh. And Jacob checks the clock.
jacob		Okay. I think enough time has passed. I appreciate you guys keeping our little secret.
nadia		You must love her very much.
jacob		I do. Jacob opens the door to let them go but he hears a door open across the hall... Bretton's. And they all witness a YOUNGER AMERICAN WOMAN leave Bretton's room then head down the hall right by them. Jacob's stunned.
paulina		The most famous hooker in the world. Off Jacob's confusion...
jacob		Is she a gift from Oleg?
paulina		No. She's Bretton's go-to.
nadia		He flies her in wherever he's at. And Jacob slowly takes that in... absolutely floored.
bretton woods		You look like crap. They walk for the exit.
jacob		No Bretton. That was all bullshit.
bretton woods		Well, it worked. Oleg's wiring us five hundred million dollars today. And Bretton turns to Jacob... impressed.
gordon gekko		Well, I'm happy to help.
jacob		Oh... I'm still working on it.
gordon gekko		So you're a hedge fund cowboy now? Shaking his head...
office		A small cluttered office with papers strewn about...
jacob		Whatever. And they trade. The hotdog for the pretzel.
gordon gekko		As for your end of our trade.
jacob		Is that a threat? Looking Jacob dead on...
gordon gekko		Absolutely. Jacob just shakes his head with a laugh... now realizing that Gekko talked him into this position for this exact leverage.
jacob		You're priceless, Gordon.
gordon gekko		Just be happy I'm on your team.
jacob		What bad position?
gordon gekko		What have I been saying all along, Kid?
jacob		Financials.
gordon gekko		They're a death trap -- mark my words.
jacob		Bring it. Diego smiles... loves this new one...
diego		What's the most dangerous question on Wall Street?
jacob		Tell me.
diego		"How are you?" And Jacob agrees whole-heartedly as he heads on his way.
jacob		Why are you with me? She stops and turns back to him.
winnie		What?
jacob		You hate finance. You hate Wall Street. Why are you with me? Winnie nods. It's a valid question. And she thinks about it for a moment, then...
winnie		Repetition compulsion.
jacob		Huh?
winnie		It's Freud.
jacob		And what does it mean, psych major?
winnie		Well, it's when people repeat the same dysfunctional relationships from childhood in their adult life in hopes of trying to master them.
jacob		Like when children of alcoholics fall in love with alcoholics.
winnie		Yeah. He turns away... upset.
jacob		That's great, Winnie.
winnie		Jacob, that might be why I was initially attracted to you... but it's not why I love you. She moves to him.
jacob		Nothing... As Jacob draws in a deep breath, collects himself and finally turns back to her with...
jacob		Bretton... I found something I like. Bretton looks over to him.
bretton woods		I've been wondering when my new portfolio manager was going to come to me with something special.
jacob		I just wanted to make sure I would be bringing you the smartest idea possible. I know you don't go light. Confirming...
bretton woods		That's right. If I commit to this... we go large and we don't back down.
jacob		It might be better to do this in the office. I have color and support to
bretton woods		C'mon Jacob, you know that's not how we do.
bretton woods		This is how we do. And with a nod, the DRIVER of the other jetvan opens it to reveal two motorcycles inside. Bretton's MTT Turbine Superbike and an Agusta, these bikes are handcrafted works of art as much as they are demons of speed. Jacob laughs in disbelief and excitement.
jacob		And we're allowed to ride these through here? Sucking in the fresh summer air...
bretton woods		No.
jacob		Okay. I'm just getting used to it.
bretton woods		Tell me your idea.
jacob		Here?
bretton woods		Where else?
jacob		Right. Okay.
bretton woods		No. After KZI, I took profits.
jacob		I think it's time to go the other way.
bretton woods		Banks?
jacob		Insurance companies. I'm talking the old school insurers that have become the babies thrown out with the bath water. Jacob waits for a reaction from Bretton. But all he gets is...
bretton woods		Keep up! And with that, Bretton rips into the clearing. Jacob rides just as fast. They're neck and neck... it's definitely a race. Bretton pulls ahead but Jacob doesn't give up. As they move quickly toward a patch of forest with a only narrow trail entering it, Jacob focuses on the horizon and revs the bike into more speed. He pulls up next to Bretton as they approach the trail. If Jacob doesn't slow down, and fall in line behind Bretton, he's going to hit the trees. But he doesn't. Instead, Jacob blasts the bike into its final dose of speed, narrowly avoiding impact by zipping into the trail... pulling ahead of Bretton and taking the lead.
jacob		The basket of stocks I'm putting together focuses on reinsurance brokering and management services for businesses. They're trading below book and have large dividends.
bretton woods		Financials are a falling knife. Jacob nods...
jacob		I'm not arguing that... but the best opportunities are found where angels fear to tread. Jacob can see... he has Bretton on the hook.
winnie		He chose this restaurant. Jacob confirms.
jacob		You're going to be fine.
winnie		I'm only doing this for you.
jacob		No. You're doing this for you. She just glares at him.
winnie		We're never having sex again.
jacob		Then what my friends say about marriage will be true.
winnie		Oh, shut up.
gordon gekko		Hi. Fighting back the nerves...
winnie		Hey. They just stand there. Jacob holds out his hand.
jacob		Mr. Gekko, I'm Jacob Moore, we spoke on the phone. Nice to finally meet in person. Gekko just looks at him for an extra long beat, then... shakes his hand.
gordon gekko		Yes. They all sit.
jacob		I don't drink.
gordon gekko		Oh... okay. Then Gordon attempts a smile over to his daughter.
gordon gekko		I've been following your career, Winnie. Senator Lehigh said some very nice things about you in The American Prospect interview.
winnie		Yeah. She's really been... very... supportive of my... And it trails off... as she just glares at Gordon.
gordon gekko		It's okay. This is a long term investment.
jacob		Winnie... Winnie... He turns her around.
winnie		You don't understand. Her tears being washed away by the rain.
jacob		Your brother's dead, Winnie.
winnie		He's not the person people think he is.
jacob		It was a long time ago. She pulls out of his embrace...
winnie		He'll hurt us. Can't we just go home? Please... Jacob. It's raining. And he just looks at her for a long moment... soaking wet and shivering... crying and exposed.
jacob		 I love you. You don't have to do this.
jacob		Yes.
bretton woods		Your insurance companies are down. He's working a coffee in the master suite of The Black Swan Home...
jacob		Bretton.
bretton woods		I want to increase our size. Glancing at the LCD, 12:23am...
jacob		Okay. Good. It's just a matter of time before they turn. I'll call the
bretton woods		Jacob, I want you to triple our positions on all three.
jacob		Okay.
bretton woods		And they better fucking go up. Click. And as Jacob just looks at the phone...
gordon gekko		Tripling the size... that's a very aggressive move. Jacob nods.
jacob		He's chasing. Suddenly, a MAN approaches the table. He's in his thirties.
tom		Mr Gekko, I'm Tom Sanders. I write for Barrons.
gordon gekko		I've heard of it. Letting out a little laugh...
tom		I'm sure you have.
gordon gekko		Can you give me the cover? Tom isn't sure if Gordon's serious. Either is Jacob.
tom		Well, I... um... don't make those decisions.
gordon gekko		Get me the cover and I'll give you seventy minutes. Tom politely smiles.
tom		I'll... take that as a no. ... and goes. Gordon looks down to his breakfast and quietly asserts...
gordon gekko		 Both those assholes got the cover when they were convicted. And after a moment...
jacob		How do we know the insurance companies are going to continue going down? As he casually places his egg on a piece of toast...
gordon gekko		It's all going down. ... and takes a bite.
bill maher		Welcome to the 2008 Financial Follies!
sammy rosen		Doing well.
bill maher		 Sammy, let me give you some free advice, the next time someone with bad eyesight wants to sell you a hundred and fifty million dollar painting... don't let them personally deliver it.
first frame		Under the caption "Main Street National Bank" is a drawing of a Poor Man sitting across from a Banker Man behind his desk.
poor man		I'd like a mortgage... I don't really have any money though... is that cool?
banker man		Totally cool. Since housing prices are always going up it won't be a problem.
poor man		You guys are awesome!
next frame		Under the caption "A few weeks later at the bank..." Banker Man now stands over a pile of steaming shit.
banker man		Wow, these mortgages are really beginning to smell. I better sell them to smart people.
next frame		Under the caption of "Smart People Investment Bank" Smart Man stands over the same steaming pile of shit.
smart man		Wow, these mortgages we just bought really smell. I better sell them to foreigners.
next frame		Under the caption of "The CDO Factory" our smart man oversees an assembly line of stick figure workers.
next frame		Under the caption of "Rich Man Hedge Fund" a stick figure named Rich Man sits behind his desk and holds a phone to his ear.
rich man		Good news, Smart Man, not only did foreigners buy those traunches, but so did school boards and charities and big pensions.
next frame		Under the caption "Norwegian Village Pension Fund" a Norwegian Man sits behind his desk and shouts into his phone.
norwegian man		Hey man! What the fuck? We're not receiving our monthly payments!
next frame		Under the caption "Rich Man Hedge Fund," Rich Man at his desk on the phone.
rich man		Yeah, we fucked up.
norwegian man		What about the rating agencies?
rich man		Yeah, they fucked up too.
norwegian man		What about the investment bank that put these CDO's together?
rich man		Fucked up.
norwegian man		What about the bank that made the original loan?
rich man		Totally fucked up.
norwegian man		What am I supposed to tell my villagers?
rich man		That you fucked up. The final frame Just the rendering of that steaming pile of shit under the caption... "The End." And the lights go on to a some subdued laughter and a smattering of applause.
bill maher		What a year -- enjoy the night!
bretton woods		It's a good question... what do you think, George? GEORGE, an investment banker at the table, thinks about it.
george		The definition of rich... flying private. The table reacts... some agree, other don't. George turns to Jacob.
jacob		To be rich... is to have the love of a good woman. They all boo...
gordon gekko		Isn't that what you always say, Bretton? Then... announcing to the table...
bretton woods		Be careful Gordon...  ... your daughter's financial health is in my hands now. Jacob loses his smile... suddenly becoming uncomfortable.
gordon gekko		That's right.
bretton woods		No, I don't suppose you did. Bretton looks over to Jacob.
jacob		We have a proactive central bank, the charts show a clear bottom on July 15th and these companies are trading at half of what they were six months ago.
gordon gekko		Just cause it's low don't make it cheap, Sport.
jacob		I read your book.
gordon gekko		It's not out yet.
jacob		I have a friend in publishing.
gordon gekko		Since I have forty-four seconds to spare, I'm going to tell you a story. It's about a guy named Sam. And we go close on Gekko...
diego		(doing his best Howard
bretton woods		They're not going to save it. They're just going to let it bloody die! And sure enough... on the tv... Fox Business runs footage of Lehman Brother's demise. On the screen, the chyron screams:
bretton woods		We're getting fucking killed. And Jacob looks up to his electronic ticker...
jacob		It's capitulation. Bretton holds Jacob's look... fighting to keep his composure. Until... he simply stands and offers Jacob his desk back.
bretton woods		Then buy more. Jacob takes his chair and reaches for the phone.
jacob		Right. Bretton just stares nervously at the electronic ticker... a frazzled gambler talking himself into his bet.
bretton woods		Fuck it.
jacob		I'm sorry, you have an early train. I'm going to just go to the office now. She leans up.
winnie		He didn't want to keep my mother awake so he'd go into the kitchen and sit there. I could hear him because my room was right up the back stairs. I'd go and sit with him sometimes. We'd eat ice cream. Jacob gets out of bed and throws on his robe.
jacob		It's not the market, Winnie. As he sits on the edge of the bed...
winnie		I wish I could tell you something was going to come along that would make it better but I can't. It's just going to take time, Jacob. A lot of time. And she looks into his eyes...
jacob		Go back to sleep. And he goes... After a beat, she sees Jacob's wallet.
winnie		 Jacob, you forgot... She jumps out of bed, grabs the wallet and goes after him, but... it opens up and Winnie notices the picture inside. And she stops, staring at that picture. Her and her father on that white horse... taken years ago. A picture she knows she never gave to Jacob.
bretton woods		Face full of sweat... blood all over his hand... hair strewn about... completely out of breath... bloodshot red eyes... a beaten down mess of a man.
jacob		What happened to composure, Bretton?
bretton woods		Well, I suppose it went to hell with your fucking insurance stocks. And Bretton calms down, walks to the window.
jacob		What?
bretton woods		It's time to call it a day. Spend more time with my family. I suppose this moment comes for all of us.
jacob		You still have six hundred million? Bretton vacantly nods. And Jacob Moore... trying his best to hide his disappointment...
bretton woods		I guess it's all relative. Bretton then takes a moment... confirming to himself that this is the right decision... then finally looks over to Jacob with...
jacob		He wants to close the fund... he wants to ride off into the fucking sunset...
gordon gekko		Okay...
jacob		No, it's not okay... because we're so fucking close... and he's going to walk with six hundred million dollars and that's unacceptable. And Gordon sighs in defeat...
gordon gekko		I don't know what to tell you, Pal. You wanted to make him bleed, I wanted my daughter back... As he walks...
jacob		What happened to slaughtering men, Gordon? What happened to turning them into penny-ante brokers in Poughkeepsie? Gordon stops walking.
gordon gekko		Look at you. This can't possibly be the man my daughter fell in love with. Jacob turns away.
jacob		I want to finish the job.
gordon gekko		Why?
jacob		Because nobody gave a shit about me before Andrew Zabel came along. Because he didn't deserve what he got.
gordon gekko		The universe is an efficient market, Kid... we all get what we deserve.
jacob		Did you? Now it's Gordon who looks away.
gordon gekko		I know you cared about him... and I know how that motivates. But Jacob... he wasn't such a Saint.
jacob		What's that supposed to mean?
gordon gekko		You don't want to know. Jacob steps forward... shouting out after him...
jacob		I'm sorry she doesn't want anything to do with you, Gordon -- I'm sorry she doesn't love you! Gordon stops walking. Turns...
gordon gekko		Okay Jake... you want to know. Jacob sharply nods.
jacob		No...
gordon gekko		He would get people to invest with him by offering larger than normal returns then pay the old investors with the new investors money. As long as there was fresh money, he could keep going. Do you know what his name was, Jacob? It was Charles...
jacob		You're lying.
gordon gekko		I'm not, Son. I wish I were. Jacob just stands there... stunned with what he's hearing.
jacob		I know. But I do have something for you... And as Morgan Portfolio Manager leans forward in anticipation...
jacob		So I heard something earlier today...
blogger		It's so much better working out outdoors... that gym was so stuffy.
jacob		Not to mention expensive.
blogger		Right.
jacob		So, you've obviously heard the rumor? And Blogger looks over to Jacob... he hasn't.
jacob		United Bancorp is going under. Wells Fargo has stepped up but the offer is insanely low.
bretton woods		I know all this.
jacob		You still have the fund and you still have the leverage that comes with it. You want out of the game... buy a bank. Bretton skeptically regards Jacob.
bretton woods		Why are you doing this?
jacob		Because I got you into those insurance companies... because I let you down... And Bretton... biting his lip in thought...
bretton woods		I don't like the mortgage toxic waste. It can't be quantified... and it spreads...
jacob		I worked it out already. You wouldn't have to take it.
bretton woods		How'd you do that?
jacob		Well, Wells won't insure the Zabel institutional money. It's against their policy. And then...
bretton woods		Then who would take on the mortgage securities?
jacob		Uncle Sam. Bretton slowly nods... taking all this in...
bretton woods		So, I'd get the bank, the KZI assets including the institutional fund yet none of the mortgage securities. As Jacob leans forward... going in for the kill...
jacob		You could actually own the bank your father toiled away at his whole career. Think about that, Bretton. Bretton just shakes his head.
bretton woods		We're going to lose our credit. I'm facing margin calls.
jacob		So in order to stay in the game... we need fresh money. Bretton nods...
bretton woods		 Oil's crashing. Jacob thinks for a moment, then...
jacob		And how much do we need?
bretton woods		Fifty, sixty million minimum... and that's just to hold off the current margin calls. And Bretton just sighs...
jacob		Sit tight. I'm going to get us the money. And Jacob goes... Bretton calling out after him...
bretton woods		From who... ?
lady		I have a question... what exactly is "moral hazard?" With a smile...
gordon gekko		Short version -- taking risks you're not accountable for with other people's money. And the next person steps up and hands Gordon a copy.
jacob		He's going for it. We're almost home. As he signs it...
gordon gekko		There you go.
jacob		But he needs fresh money to serve the leverage. A hundred million. Gordon just shrugs.
gordon gekko		I'm a writer now. We don't make that much. As the line of people holding their new books start to get impatient...
jacob		I know that, but I figured you might know how to get it. Handing Jacob back the signed copy...
gordon gekko		Well, if you need money that badly, Jake... you might want to check closer to home. Off Jacob's confused reaction...
winnie		It's a lot.
jacob		How much?
winnie		I don't know, Jacob. I never really considered it mine.
jacob		But it is... right? It's your money? And she faces him... regarding his urgency...
winnie		 You might want to wipe some of the drool off your face...
jacob		I'm not kidding. This is important. As they continue to walk...
winnie		Yes, it's mine. When he went to prison, my father put a lot of money in our names. And when Rudy died it all became mine.
jacob		Let's say I can figure out a way for you to get it. Take a loan against it -- something like that. Will you do that for me?
winnie		Why are you doing this, Jacob? Jacob takes a moment... looking away with...
jacob		This is my only chance to make things right, Winnie. And she just regards him... not sure...
hadley		Gordon couldn't invest any of his money so he put most of it into the children's names with directions on how it was to be invested.
jacob		And how could Winnie get it now? Hadley stops walking and thinks about it.
hadley		Well, she'd have to sign a reversion of trust document. That way the funds would revert back to their pre-trust posture and regulations.
jacob		So all she has to do is sign a piece of paper?
hadley		Basically. As that registers...
jacob		How much is in there?
hadley		It's complicated. There's private equity ownership, real estate, a very large position in a bank... all sorts of investment vehicles.
jacob		Ballpark it for me.
hadley		I don't know. Assuming immediate liquidity... over three hundred million. And with that, Jacob sets to go. But...
gordon gekko		You also would need the trust's executor to sign it.
jacob		Who is that?
gordon gekko		Sammy Redding. He's a lifelong friend. It won't be a problem.
jacob		What about you?
gordon gekko		I would love to sign it, Jacob. Consider it done. Walking down 5th avenue...
jacob		Thank you. Thank you, Gordon.
gordon gekko		Just after you agree to two things.
jacob		Anything.
gordon gekko		Before Bretton buys the bank, he must use all of Winnie's money and all the Locust Fund's leverage to go against the market. They're about to pass this bailout and I want to be on the other side of it.
jacob		But what about--
gordon gekko		It's just for a few weeks then it's right back to our plan.
jacob		Okay.
winnie gekko		As she starts to sign the forms... we're in...
gordon gekko		Winnie... come here... you're all I have left now. And she slowly walks over to him... to his embrace...
winnie		You always get what you want, Dad. And Jacob Moore... witnessing this strange reunion... realizing how right she is...
jacob		 ... the financials, China, India, Brazil...  "WORLD MARKETS SIGNAL DEPRESSION AHEAD" 
jacob		What? No market joke today? Diego just shrugs...
diego		It stopped being funny. Jacob softly nods and heads on his way.
jacob		I thought you were in London. Jacob nods.
bretton woods		The United Bancorp deal is going to go through. I've begun unwinding all our positions.
jacob		But our deal with Gordon was that we have to stay short until November 5th. Bretton just looks at him.
bretton woods		Jacob, Gordon redeemed all his money yesterday. We're clean with him. And this hits Jacob like a ton of bricks...
jacob		No. No, everything's great. Forcing out a smile...
jacob		Thank you, he hasn't answered his phone and we're very worried. The landlord nods and unlocks the apartment door for them...
jacob		He played me... She joins his side...
winnie		I don't give a shit about the money. And she turns to face him.
jacob		I lied to you. I contacted him. I spent time with him. Without you knowing.
winnie		I knew.
jacob		You knew?
winnie		I saw the picture in your wallet.
jacob		Then why didn't you say anything?
winnie		Because I wanted to give you a chance to say something first.
hadley		It's completely legal, Jacob. The funds reverted back to the pre-trust posture... that means the money was technically Gordon's again. Hadley just shrugs...
jacob		But he's not allowed to trade.
hadley		He didn't trade.
jacob		He put the money into the hedge fund, that's considered capital investment.
hadley		Jacob, Gordon never put the money into a hedge fund. He simply took control of the bank.
jacob		Bank? What bank?
hadley		Hudson River. I told you about the position in the bank. Jacob's stunned...
jacob		Hudson River... ? I don't understand.
jacob		But how? Gordon wasn't allowed to control the trust.
hadley		That's right. All of the trust's moves were made by its executor.
jacob		Sammy Redding? Confused...
hadley		Sammy Redding? Who the hell is Sammy Redding?
jacob		So we're throwing Bretton's birthday party at Balmoral.
manager		Well, we're very proud to have such a resounding success hail from these hallowed halls I assure you.
jacob		That's funny because he often speaks about his days here at Redmayne and Bentley... anyway, what I'm hoping you can help me with were records of his early trades. Years ago.
manager		Of course... but it is against policy to allow just anyone to see those records.
jacob		I completely understand. How about this? I'll make you a trade.
jacob		Wow, Bretton -- you really kicked some ass for client forty one. Finally Jacob turns to the back of the ledger, to the client key, where he moves the pencil down to client #41 and it says... Gordon Gekko.
oleg		It's been a bitch of a month, my friend... tell me this visit does not bring bad news.
oleg		You want me to audit The Locust Fund?
jacob		That's right. I want you to tell Bretton you need the official records of all the fund's activity starting with when you gave him the original two hundred million. You need this because The Russian Federal Tax Service is up your ass and you have to play ball with them.
oleg		And if he declines... ?
jacob		You'll have no choice but to pull your money.
oleg		And why would I do that? And Jacob leans forward...
jacob		Because if you do this for me, Oleg, I'll teach you the Andrew Zabel magic. I'll explain to you, in detail, all of his techniques... I'll give you all his secrets... it's less complicated than you might think.
jacob		Hello... Okay, thank you. He moves to the curtains then opens them. And the daylight spills in.
oleg		All the Locust Fund's trades for the last two years. Jacob nods, placing them into his bag. And Oleg lights a cigarette... looks right at us... excited... leaning forward with...
jacob		They were working together. Your father and Bretton. Walking back into the apartment...
winnie		Jacob, what are you doing here? Following her in...
jacob		Gordon wanted the trust the whole time. And when I came to him seeking revenge... he saw his window. Upset, she looks for her keys.
winnie		I have to go to work.
jacob		Bretton owed him a favor because he fed your father information twenty three years ago when he was a young broker in London and your father never ratted him out. She just looks at him... shaking her head... and not in disapproval... but in pity. But he keeps going.
winnie		That's the bank he worked at when I was born.
jacob		Well, now he owns it. Or shall I say pilfered it before he went AWOL.
winnie		Jesus... And Jacob confirms...
jacob		He saw this coming years ago... from his cell. I'm guessing he made off with billions. And he throws something on the table.
winnie		But what about the SEC, the regulatory agencies-- ?
jacob		The government is flying this 700 billion dollar airplane by the seat of it's pants. They don't know where half of the fucking money is going. And even if they did, do you think they want this out there? As this all washes over her...
winnie		This is his revenge.
jacob		Yup... sure beats the hell out of insider trading, doesn't it? And Winnie finds her keys and heads for the door...
winnie		I can't hear anymore of this. ... but Jacob steps in front of her.
jacob		I'm done. I sold everything. The ring. Everything. I gave back the KZI bonus. I'm out and I'm broke and I deserve it. And she just looks at him...
gordon gekko		Did you see Barrons?
jacob		You finally got the cover. Gordon nods.
gordon gekko		The powers that be will never let that happen. Jacob's not arguing it...
jacob		How much is enough, Gordon? Gordon laughs with a shake of the head.
gordon gekko		I've been asked that before...
jacob		You're not going to miss America?
gordon gekko		I'll always have America... it's why I'm here. I'm buying the island.
jacob		What happened to the precious depreciating asset of time?
gordon gekko		It still trades... And he turns to Jacob with a smile...
jacob		I'm out, Gordon, I'm done trading.
gordon gekko		I don't know why. You pulled it off, Kid, you took him down -- granted with my help -- but you atoned for Zabel's sins with Bretton's money.
jacob		Did you ever really want to reconcile with her?
gordon gekko		 I'm human.
jacob		Then why did you do it? And Gordon... strongly holding Jacob's glare... simply replies...
gordon gekko		Same answer.
jacob		But it didn't work. Gordon sadly shrugs...
gordon gekko		I've been trying to wire two hundred million into her bank account but she won't accept it.
jacob		I know. She doesn't want it... we don't want it.
gordon gekko		That sounds good. I bet you can even wrap it in a pretty red bow. But Champ, it's idealistic... and idealism kills every trade.
jacob		Winnie's pregnant. And Gordon stops walking.
gordon gekko		What do you want?
jacob		It's bad out there, Gordon, people are panicked. They're not looking to their government. They're not looking to their trusted advisors. They're looking to you.
gordon gekko		You want me to buy? And Jacob Moore... slowly confirming...
jacob		Publicly and aggressively. Gordon just looks at him.
gordon gekko		We're far from the bottom. It'll be a dead cat bounce.
jacob		It'll buy us time. That's all I'm asking for... time.
gordon gekko		What do I get in return?
jacob		Full clemency.
gordon gekko		You can offer that?
jacob		Your daughter can. She works with the new Secretary of Treasury now. Considering that...
gordon gekko		What else?
jacob		Winnie. Me. Your grandson. Something money can't buy... a family. And Gordon looks at him for the longest moments, allowing it all to register, then...
gordon gekko		Sorry son -- that's simply a trade I cannot make. And as Gordon Gekko walks off... leaving Jacob Moore behind...
****Dialogues from script :Wanted.txt****

wesley		.so by the time I got back to my cubicle, my eyelids were so damn heavy, I had to put my head down, even if it was just for a wink.
puja		I didn't expect for you yourself to come. One of the heads, in the flesh.
puja		I'm flattered. She reaches over to an attach case and removes a file.
puja		There.have been five attempts on his life, but he has been well protected... and well hidden. Turns out his wife's family has a lot of money. He's in town to accept an award.
puja		And for that, my clients will pay handsomely. Mr. X is looking at Puja when a curious thing happens... .he notices that the red bindi on he r forehead tarts to move a little, like a second dot is trying to emerge from it, like an amoeba splitting. It's a sh hooter's laser! His eyes go wide as saucers. MR. x
fox		It was a set-up all the way? Sloan just nods. He then stoops down, shoos some of the flies away with the back of his hand and picks up the file that Puja gave Mr. X. The CAMERA PUSHES IN on the back of Sloan's hand as he reads the file. It, too, has the tattoo pf the three- headed do q, in the same spot as Mr. X.
sloan		He wants out.
fox		And killing all three heads gets him that? Sloan nods again.
sloan		There's one person who can.
fox		Yeah? Who? And with that, we...
boss janice		Oh my fucking god I hope that's not my billing report sitting on your fucking desk. Holy shit on an altar, it isl A couple of the other OFFICE WORKERS look up at the fireworks and smile... like they're actually enjoying Janice's histrionics.
wesley		I meant to...
boss janice		 I meant to... I meant to... Well I meant to be a size four but meaning to doesn't pick no cotton.
wesley		I'll do it.
boss janice		Minimum for the maximum. That's all you ever do. The minimum you can do to suck the maximum from this company.
wesley		I said I'll get it done. I'm sorry.
boss janice		No, you're worthless. I'm the one who's sorry I hired you. She storms away, fuming. Wesley looks over and sees some of the other workers still staring at him, amused. He sits back down to the semi-privacy of his little cubicle.
consultant		I asked you about the effects of net investment income with regards to underwriting cycles.
wesley		Well, that's the thing.-
consultant		What's the thing?
wesley		 Cycles. Hard market, industry-wide cycles differ from our firm's cycles so I think it's amistake to apply...
janice		Good God a'mighty.
consultant		Son... everyone knows that net investment income is inversely related to both premium and loss reserves, making firm cycles inherently dependent on industry cycles! Everyone snickers.
janice		Get it to me by five.
wesley		Sure. Wesley jots down on his pad: "ACTION ITEMS," and underneath it: "Differential responses... then you die." He underlines it three times.
wesley		C'mon, c'mon. After an eternity, the doors open.
cathy		Where's the spaghetti?
wesley		What?
cathy		I specifically told you to get noodles on your way home. God, Wesley, I already put the sauce on.
wesley		Sorry. Ididn't...
cathy		You didn't listen is what you didn't.- I might as well talk to the wall.
wesley		I'll be right back. He turns around.
wesley		I got it.
fox		There is a remedy for all things but death. She said it so fast he's not sure he heard it right. He turns and sees the-hottest zQZM ever to ace Kroger's aisles: ox. She's wearing barely enough clothing to cover her tight body.
wesley		 I'm sorry?
fox		You apologize too much.
wesley		 Sorry? She looks him in the eye.
fox		Spina bifida babies have more backbone than you. With that, she walks toward the end of the aisle, eyes scanning the whole time. Stunned, all Wesley can do is watch her walk. on the sMll f her back is a tatt It' tattoo we saw in the be i n n : a thKee-head2d dog. She gets to the end and catches him looking at her. Then she makes a very subtle gesture with her head... as if to say "come here." Wesley still isn't sure what the hell is going on. Sheepishly, he makes his way to where she stands. She leans in close, her lips just inches from his ear.
wesley		I think you got the wrong guy.
fox		Can't say that I agree with you, Wesley.
wesley		 What is this? How d'you know my name?
fox		Your father...
wesley		My father died in a car wreck the week I was born...
fox		,Your father died two days ago on the rooftop. of the Metropolitan Building. For a moment, just a moment, Wesley is stunned, but Fox just keeps sizing him up.
wesley		Lady...
fox		I've been called a lot of things, but "lady" ain't one of 'em. Wesley starts to talk but Fox interrupts him...
wesley		The Fraternity?
fox		 Your father, Wesley, was set up and gunned down by a man he used to consider a friend. And your father, Wesley... Suddenly, s raises her hands and-LS fist' two blgck
fox		This is what you've dreamt about all your life. Just then, Cross o s the corner to t e' e also fisting a Da'r of alms. Wesley's eyes go wide as Fox suddenly starts firing, BAM! BAMI BAMZ BAMI BAM: forcing Cross to take cover on the far side of the aisle.
fox		Drive!
wesley		What?!! But Fox just leaps into the passenger seat, guns up and ready, as Wesley's legs. somehow take over and he hops behind the wheel. Just then, Cross's ev ll Mound the corner, practically going up on two tires. Wham! Wesley turns the ignition, pope the clutch, and smashes the gas pedal as the car nearly snaps his neck when it launches forward. He races through the gears and rips around a corner and out into traffic.
fox		Just drive! The Chevelle stays on his tail behind them; Cross drives and fires his Glock at the same time. Bam! Bam! Sam! Fox does her best to send bullets back his way, while Wesley mans the wheel, breathing hard, still stunned at what is happening. He spots a side-street...
wesley		Hold on! ...whips the car into a rubber-squealing turn...
wesley		Truck!
fox		Go around it!
wesley		No! Shoot the tires! Fox looks at Wesley, momentarily stunned by his idea, then spins and fires away at the oncoming truck. The front tires on the truck explode and the truck veers hard right, where it bounces off a Fed Extrugk.,,, hat sends it into a violent roll. Wesley guns the Ferrari at the tumbling truck as it flips forward... right over their car!!! Wesley watches it fly over them, amazed his idea worked... when finally it SMASHES down into the street between them and Cross's Chevellel Cross is forced to slam on his brakes and slide out... but it's too late... his Chevelle smashes into the 4 X 4 before skidding to a stop, a tangled mess in the street. Wesley snaps back to reality and rips the Ferrari off the one-way street and down a side street.
wesley		Who was that?
fox		That... was the man who killed your father. And now he's trying to kill you. Wesley forces a laugh, but right now it's hard to paint any-thing as ludicrous.
wesley		No. I mean... I told you my father died when I was a baby. She leans right into his face so that their noses are only inches apart.
fox		Have you ever believed that? Have you ever been content with that answer? Wesley stops, not sure of anything right now.
fox		The people I work with... we believe your father passed his skills on genetically to you. You knew how to handle the car, you knew to shoot at the truck.
fox		It's that confidence we're gonna need to work on. Wesley is still dazed.
wesley		What?
fox		Do you think I look fat in this outfit?
wesley		What?!
fox		I thought so. Let's go. She hops out. They walk inside a...
fox		Mr. Sloan. The Butcher looks up from his work and lays down the knife, right next to where Mr. Sloan has a pair of silver pistols and a magnifying glass resting on a rolling table.
the butcher		We all end up where we belong, don't we? The Butcher snickers. Sloan speaks up...
sloan		Fox told you about your father? Wesley looks from Sloan to Fox to the Butcher and back to Sloan.
sloan		When? They look at him, imploringly, waiting for an answer.
wesley		I... I guess I'm not sure. Sloan simply picks up one of the pistols and sticks the gun in Wesley's hand.
sloan		Shoot the wings off the flies.
wesley		What?!
wesley		I don't... In the blink of an eye, Sloan has plucked the second gun off the rolling table and ',s -pointing it at Weslev's temple. He begins to count...
sloan		You have three seconds. Three... two... Before he can say one, Wesley reacts... blindly firing the pistol in his hand, indiscriminately, B,AM! BAM! BAM! BAM! CLICK...CLICK...CLICK... until his finger is just jamming on the trigger over and over. After a moment, he looks up, unsure why he isn't dead.
fox		Like I said, you got the skills.
sloan		And after we fine tune those skills... His eyes lock on to Wesley's, holding them in a vice-like grip...
sloan		I know thin is hard for you to understand, Wesley, but I want you to concentrate on what I'm saying. Your father was a member of the Fraternity, a collection of the most powerful assassins the world has ever known. They weave against the flow of pedestrians out and about on the city streets. Instinctively, people step out of their way.
wesley		But I've never heard of...
sloan		We don't advertise Wesley. We blend into the environment like moths against a tree.
sloan		Because the easiest place to hide is in plain sight... .until it finds a GUN SALESMAN holding out a weapon to an Italian customer. He also has the tattoo. He's THE
sloan		..until that time when we are called into action.
sloan		We have been active for centuries, Wesley... outlasting rulers, governments, nations, kings. We recognize no borders; the entire globe is our killing field. They are buzzed through by THE PHARMACIST, and enter...
sloan		We are the baddest of the bad, the three- headed dog that guards the gates of hell. We show no mercy, we destroy the weak, we have absolute power.
wesley		Why would you do that? Sloan puts a hand on Wesley's shoulder, gently. Paternally.
sloan		Your father was like a brother to me.
the pharmacist		'Ah, made your choice, did 'ja, of boy?
the pharmacist		Very good, very good. He walks behind Wesley.
wesley		Is this the beginning of my training?
the pharmacist		Quite right. The Pharmacist cracks his knuckles and then, WHAM!!! He hits Wesley so hard right in the cheek that it almost knocks him out of the chair.
wesley		What the fuck are... WHANIlM 4!!!1 The Pharmacist smashes him again. Wesley struggles against the ropes but isn't going anywhere. The Pharmacist rears back. and WHAM! WHAMMM! WHAMQ! keeps hitting him over-and over again until Wesley's eyes roll to the back of his head.
nicole		What happened to your face? Wesley turns in his chair, surprised. Nicole stands there, looking as pretty as ever, way out of -his league.
nicole		Was this over a girl?
wesley		Something like that.
nicole		I had no idea you had such a secret life outside of here. She cocks her head and studies him.
wesley		No. Not really. Same old Wesley.
nicole		I don't think so. She puts her hand on top of his; he can only stare at it... this kind of thing just doesn't happen to him.
wesley		Would you consider me to be an observant person?
nicole		What's that mean? Wesley's about to say something, when he spots Janice heading their way. Wesley nods at her and Nicole frowns.
boss janice		Jesus H. Fucking Popscile, you don't have time to get me the differential responses but you got time to chitty-chatty with the intern? Why do I even keep you around, Wesley? Well I know one thing, your review is coming up next week and I can't wait to start checking me off some boxes... attitude: poor, performance: poor, management skills: poor, works well with others... Wesley just focuses on that mouth. Fat lips over fat gums over yellow teeth. But now all that's coming out of it is JIBBERISH. ' I Jibberish that goes straight from her larynx to Wesley's ears where it imbeds in the soft flesh of his brain and BURNS... It's so goddamn loudl if only... ...if only it would just...
loudmouth		That was great dude! He holds up his hand for a high-five, but Wesley just WALLOPS him with a right cross, not breaking stride on his way to the elevators.
fox		What's up, new man?
wesley		You were watching?
fox		Never stopped. How'd it feel, saying exactly what you wanted to say?
wesley		Like I had a gun in my hands. Fox grins as Wesley jumps in the car and she mashes on the pedal. The Diablo's tires smoke as she launches it out of there.
fox		You need to get used to the blood and the muscle and the meat and the sinew and what a single blade of steel can do to a chunk of flesh. The Butcher turns and slices a chunk of tenderloin off of one of the hanging carcasses, then slaps it on the table.
the butcher		Will do, Fox. The Butcher measures Wesley, then starts to talk in a steady, almost bored voice...
the butcher		If you want the jugular, pull your enemy's head to the left and jab your knife well into his sterno-cleio- mastoideus muscle, here, then cut down and left. Just like before, we smash cut to...
fox		You haven't quite figured out this whole "blending in" thing, yet. Let's go.
wesley		What is this?
fox		This... She picks the lock and they step inside...
fox		This is the Roach Motel, Wesley. Wesley looks around, disgusted.
sloan		Selecting your weapon and then disposing of it is the most pivotal aspect of every assassination. An array of firearms are on a shelf next to Wesley.
wesley		Computer chips?
wesley		I suppose you're going to tell me to shoot her first.
sloan		How'd you do in Physics class?
wesley		Mostly B's. Fox cocks her head at Wesley, knows he's lying.
sloan		Why?
wesley		I couldn't remember all the rules --
sloan		That's it. Rules. What if I told you there weren't any? He nods at Wesley, like he's on to something.
wesley		Every day.
sloan		Because you use your brain differently than other people. All Fraternity members do.
wesley		I don't get it.
sloan		Humans use neurons to think. But most people can only handle a small percentage of those neurons firing at once without suffering a seizure or an aneurism. Not us. And not you. We have the ability to think differently than other people.
wesley		So we set our own rules.
sloan		That's right. Sloan hands him back the weapon.
wesley		Just the flies.
sloan		So you have no pre-conceived habits we need to break. Shoot the target. Don't hit mom.
wesley		You mean curve the bullet? How?
sloan		This isn't about "how." It's about "what." If you'd never been told a bullet flies straight and I handed you this and said hit that target... what would you do? Allow your instincts to guide you. Just like the flies.
cathy		Oh my god, Wesley, where have you been? I've been so worried! But Wesley just pushes past her and starts to throw clothes out of drawers into a black duffel bag.
fox		You can take the couch until we find you someplace better.
wesley		Okay. She moves toward a separate bedroom.
fox		Come on.
fox		Your father lov ed you, Wesley. He talked about you all the time.
wesley		Really? Wesley looks at her hopefully. She smiles, thinking about the past.
fox		That's a fact. He knew he wasn't supposed to, but he couldn't help it.
wesley		You worked with him?
wesley		What kind of training is that?
fox		I'm here, aren't I?
wesley		My father was Burgess, wasn't he? Fox nods, smiling. They step...
fox		He didn't hit me anywhere important, and he used pin-shot bullets that didn't do any real damage. But you can be damn sure I don't let any mark get the high ground on me again. Shesmiles at another thought.
wesley		What?
fox		We went driving.
wesley		What's this?
fox		This is where your father was killed. Wesley's eyes narrow and he looks around, taking it all in.
wesley		How?
fox		We're not sure. The fence he was meeting was shot in the head... which led him out to here... but it must've been a set-up all along. All I know is it would take a hell of a trap to bring your father down. Wesley crouches down by where his father's body would have been, running his fingers over the gravel rooftop.
wesley		My whole life I thought he was dead. I shouldn't feel any differently just because it happened 20 years later.
fox		But...
wesley		But, I do. Like I missed my one chance.
fox		Well that's why you're here. To make up for lost time. Wesley looks back at her.
wesley		Can I see his body?
fox		We cremate our dead. I'd like to say it's to honor them, but it's mainly to keep anyone from identifying them after they're gone.
wesley		These are my father's ashes?
fox		Yeah.
wesley		Sloan said his heart stopped but there was no entry wound?
fox		That's right.
wesley		Can I have a minute?
fox		Sure. She leaves and Wesley approaches the urn holding his father's'remains. He runs his finger over it, and just when we think he's going to have an emotional moment...' ..he smashes the urn on to the stand, the ashes spilling out everywhere. Wesley runs his fingers through the decay: what a mess... there are pieces of bone intermingled in the cremains. But then hisfingegs find something in the dust... a BULLET with a hole running down its center. He holds it up to the light for a closer look. As he studies it, we start to hear... WHAM! WHAMI...
the pharmacist		If you get in the hoo-ha of a two on one and find yourself the one, remember that each foe will likely move at the same steady speed away from each other, allowing you to keep a gun on each.
sloan		Watch the eyes. Look for a slight swelling of the pupil. You can train your body to stay a constant temperature, you can control your heartbeat, but you can't control the center of your eyes. That's how you know when someone is lying to you. Sloan looks right at him. Wesley narrows his eyes, trying to fend off his stare.
wesley		No.
sloan		I know that's a lie without even seeing your eyes.
wesley		Fine. Try something else.
sloan		Okay. What are you hiding from me? Wesley looks down, then focuses on Sloan.
wesley		Nothing. Sloan waits. Wesley realizes it's useless to try to keep something from this man. He reaches into his pocket and pulls out the bullet with the hole in its center... places it on the table.
sloan		What's this?
wesley		The bullet that killed him. You said his heart stopped but there was no entrance wound. This bullet has a hole cut into its center...
sloan		Yes?
wesley		You know how a mole buries into the earth by pushing the dirt back around it? I think this bullet does what the mole does... Splits the skin and pushes it back through its center, filling the space it just passed through. Sloan looks at him, like he might have been underestimating him until now.
sloan		You put this all together on your own? Wesley taps his head.
wesley		Firing neurons.
sloan		Don't know. But whoever has them isn't long for this place. Sloan reaches down and picks up a binder which he drops on the desk.
wesley		What's that?
sloan		Cross. The details of his life. q Continue your hunt.
wesley		No rules, right? This stops Sloan for a second.
sloan		No rules.
sloan		We keep a record of every assassination mission, going back to the Ides of March. Maps, diagrams, logistics, complications, weapons of choice... it's all there. Wesley nods, impressed. Sloan just keeps leading him through a set of double doors, into...
wesley		What's all this?
sloan		Where we plot our local hits. This city is one of the Fraternity's major headquarters.
wesley		 This room. The books. Seems low-tech.
sloan		Part of mastering technology is knowing when to use it. Models can't be hacked. Your father built this room himself. Most of the buildings are white, but interspersed amongst them are a few vainted red. Some of the model street lamps are also red.
wesley		What's with the red ones? Sloan just smiles... .and THE CAMERA MOVES TO HIS FEET, then PUSHES'IN on one particular street on the map, further in on one RED STREETLIGHT and we...
sloan		The Fraternity's grasp reaches every facet of the world's major cities, including their construction. Look at this streetlight. Wesley peers at it... there is a plaque affixed to the pole... the standard thing you find on these things... "Municipal C. W. 63070." But then there is something different on this one... a tiny symbol on the bottom of the plaque... the Cerberus instead of the seal of the cit Sloan presses the symbol and the plaque slides aside, revealing a hollow space behind it. He reaches his hand inside and pulls out a small handgun... flips out the clip expertly, then racks the weapon. Wesley can't believe it.
wesley		You have stashes...
sloan		.everywhere.
wesley		Jesus.
police officer		Sir... Sloan flashes his tattoo at them.
sloan		Keep moving, fellas. They nod and do just that.
wesley		Closer. Impressed, the Gunsmith moves the corpse closer to the target, making the angle all that much tougher. Wesley gets ready to squeeze his trigger, but a pistol starts FIRING next to him. He looks over... Sloan is standing nr= &o him, firing at the target. Every shot bends around the body and hits right in the forehead of the target. Wesley smiles, impressed. LIBRARY. Wesley thumbs through an old Fraternity book, which has detailed sketches of an assassination in 17th century Paris. MEAT LOCKER. Wesley working out on a heavy bag, honing his punches, the Chef holding the bag for him, muscles rippling. MAP ROOM. Wesley walks by himself amongst the miniature city, trying to memorize where the red marks are.
sloan		Our job isn't just about how fast or true you shoot, Wesley. Physical agility will always lose to mental agility. It's warfare of the mind. FO 'S APART. Wesley looking at Fox through the bedroom door. SLAUGHTERHOUSE. Wesley working with the Butcher on the art of knife play. MAP ROOM. The Gardener and Fox show Wesley the rooftop of a certain building on the model city, one corner of the roof painted red. ROOFTOP. Fox and the Gardener now with Wesley on that actual rooftop, pointing out firing angles, modes. of ascension, and escape routes. The Gardener moves over to a cornerstone in the roof of the building and then easily lifts it off, revealing a stash of assault rifles. k SHOOTING G . Wesley looking at some ammunition while the Gunsmith talks and demonstrates. He fires at one of the targets, which EXPLODES in a splattered mess and we cut to...
wesley		Cross and my father were tight. But Cross thought he should be one of the heads of the Fraternity so he left and vowed to kill the three heads. Which means my father is dead because of petty jealousy.
fox		More reason for Cross to die. Wesley flips to the picture of cross.
wesley		But I don't see jealousy in those eyes, do you? Fox walks over and slams the binder shut.
fox		Listen .to me, Wesley. In two weeks, we have to kill Henry Helms. Do-you know who that is?
wesley		The journalist who's got a price-tag on his head.
fox		A price-tag that we're going to collect. Your father was meeting with a fence about the job when Cross took him down. So we can only assume Cross knows about the target too. We... you... have to take Cross out before we prosecute this mission. We can't have him out there as a wildcard, wreaking havoc, do you understand?
wesley		Yeah.
fox		We've never defaulted on a job and this 1k one won't be the first.
fox		May have found your match, Sloan. Sloan smirks and turns to instruct Wesley.
sloan		Pick the weapon, make the kill, destroy the weapon. No other rules. Wesley nods as Gunsmith returns.
wesley		 Close the gap. Push the body closer to the target..
the gunsmith		It's already at four feet.
wesley		Closer.
the gunsmith		Here's two. Your father couldn't even do that.
wesley		Closer.
the gunsmith		Wesley, at some point --
wesley		Closer. I'll say when.
wn		Gunsmith starts sliding the target closer to the body, until it's actually touching the back of the dead business man!
the gunsmith		How you gonna -- ?
fox		Just run it out there. Let the kid work. The Gunsmith shrugs and runs the target down the range. Wesley looks at Sloan.
wesley		You wanna go first?
sloan		There are limits to everything, Wesley. At some point the body becomes a shield. Wesley pulls his gun and lets loose five rounds, lightning fast. The Gunsmith brings the target back to them... ..a the business man is riddled with es.
the gunsmith		I guess not every rule can be broken.
wesley		Check the target. The Gunsmith does and we see that each of the five bullets has passed clean through the cadaver and found it's mark on the target.
wesley		One! There is a look in Wesley's eye we, haven't seen before, a burning, searing fire. As he continues to take punches and count them out...
sloan		He's ready. the los2k on Fox's face becomes more and more and sexual until...
fox		Don't you quit now, baby! Don't you quit now!! Wesley didn't know it could be like this. After they finish, Fox gets up and heads to the shower and he watches her go the whole way. In the doorway, she turns around...
wesley		Do you like being the only chick in the Fraternity?
wesley		 Maybe I have and I'm just not telling you.
wesley		How did you end up here, Fox?
fox		Same way you did, sugar. They found me.
wesley		What did you do before? Fox looks at him, a wry smile on her face.
fox		Sold perfume. At the mall.
wesley		No shit?
fox		No shit.
wesley		I can't see it.
fox		Get in line.
wesley		What made them come after you? I mean, I know why I'm here.
fox		Fraternity members all have something in their lineage that shows they'll be good at this.
wesley		And yours is?
fox		My great-great-great-grandfather on my mother's side. He was on a slave ship coming over from East Africa and as it was pulling into Charleston, he killed every white man on the ship and swam to shore. They caught him and hung him four days later.
wesley		That's terrible.
fox		I Nah. Motherfucker deserved it. Be raped eight women in those four days. One of them was my great-great-great-grandmama. She pushes her chair back, done with her work. The CAMERA PUSHES IN as Fox removes the device so we can take a look: the three-headed dog has been tattooed into his hand.
wesley		Where's the Diablo?
fox		Trial by fire, sugar. Hook a right. Wesley whips the car around a corner...
wesley		You need a new wardrobe or something?
fox		we're here for a reason and it ain't clothes-shopping. Somewhere in that crowd is your first target.
wesley		A test?
fox		 The real thing.
wesley		Who's the mark?
fox		You'll know him when you see him.
wesley		What if I don't?
fox		Then you get shot. Fox hands him his Imanishi pistol, which Wesley rolls over in his hand.
barry		Wesley... hey dude. Wesley can't believe itl
wesley		Get down! .and he's looking at a man we recognize from his office... The Consultant. He's approaching rapidly behind Barry, fisting a 'pair of pistols! Just as Barry hits the deck, Wesley pulls the trigger... .but it lust CLICKS, the chamber empty...
fox		Pin shot bullets. Wesley looks down at the gun.
wesley		Just like my father used on you. Fox nods, as the Security Guards go to help the Consultant to his feet.
sloan		The mole bullet is made by a midget t Filipino named Pek War. His fingers are so small that they can shape and smooth the metal better than anyone.
wesley		You've known all along. You knew before I ever broke the urn...
sloan		I had to let you figure it out for yourself.
wesley		Part of my training.
sloan		Part of your quest. To get to know your father.
pex war		Andey? He gets no answer. He remains perfectly still, listening.
wesley		There are two things about you I'm sure of right now, little man. One is that you can speak English... Pek War sees that Wesley means business.
per war		 And what's the other?
wesley		That my nutsack is bigger than you. Fox snickers.
fox		A bullet you made killed his father. The bullet maker looks as though he knew a day like this might eventually come. His face falls and he looks.at his feet.
per war		I only mold the ammunition... I cannot be responsible for the way it is... Wesley SMASHES him in the face with the butt of his gun, then grabs a long, metal STILETTO-type tool from the work table.
wesley		Bullshit. You're as responsible as if you pulled the trigger yourself.
wesley		I'm only going to ask you one question and I want you to think very hard how you want to answer. With that, Wesley sticks the stiletto into Pek War's side!
wesley		Relax. The blade is in only an inch or so. The little man starts jabbering to God in some foreign language.
fox		Wesley, you gotta know something. No matter what kind of training you've done these last few weeks, killing your first, well that's gonna change you forever. Wesley drives for a while. Then...
wesley		You know what my foster mother. told me when I was six years old? Fox shakes her head.
fox		Jesus. Someone needs to find that bitch and set her straight.
wesley		So I grew up thinking I was the reason I never knew my parents. But now, to find out, that no, my father didn't give me up because he had died... he gave me up because he was Protecting me... well I guess I want to give him something back.
fox		Here we are.
wesley		Not very discreet, are they? Fox smiles knowingly, and looks up, revealing what Wesley is talking about. On various rooftops we-see FIGURES peering down. looking over the site.
fox		The others are only backup singers. This is your show. Fox subtly moves her head and figures disappear, crouching down. Just then, out the windshield, they see a MAN wearing a long black overcoat approaching the corner near the newspaper building. Fox's eyes start to dance.
wesley		No! The minute Bellman exposes himself in the open loading dock door he is cut down from inside, his bloody body falling backwards into a newspaper truck parked at the dock. Wesley and Fox join the other two on the dock as screaming WORKERS run from the place.
waiter		We need a way in there.
electrician		Let's find another door.
wesley		He'll be long gone by then.
fox		 He's got the high ground. Wesley sees an unmanned forklift on the dock.
wesley		On the pallet. They all jump on the pallet held by the forks of the lift. Wesley throws the machine in reverse and it backs into the warehouse, the four assassins safely crouching on the pallet on the front.
wesley		Separate. The lowest level is the loading dock, where pallets of newspapers and massive unused paper rolls await.
wesley		 Stay here and cover us. There's no angle for him to hit you if you stay here. Wesley points at a scaffolding that runs above the machines.
waiter		How do you know?
wesley		It's what I'd do. With that, Wesley and Fox disappear amongst the machinery. The Waiter takes a step back from the press, where over a hundred pounds of paper spins through every second. He sticks his head out to try and keep an eye on that scaffolding. Everything looks clear, until... ...shots ring out and a shelf o w a1l o Waiter's head gives way! He turns to see a bunch of cans of spray lubricant falling to the floor. No big deal, until Cross shoots one of them out of the air, causing it to explode! The burning oil covers the Waiter, who SCREAMS and stumbles nearer the printing press...
fox		Fuuuucckkk! Cross races along the scaffolding and disappears into a door.
wesley		Cross! Unafraid, Cross climbs up on a desk on the other side of the office. Without hesitation, Wesley opens fire at Cross... who immediately returns fire... .and his bullets actually collide with Cross's by ets in mid-air!!! The bullets ricochet and take out a COMPUTER SCREEN where someone was playing SOLITAIRE. The two assassins blast away, all while diving and moving over and in the cubicles. Cross has a gun similar to the Imanishis, and they each steer their bullets at each other from sharp angles... Strangely,. the first bullet collision was not blind luck, but the pattern for the battle. They are fighting the same fight, their bullets meeting in the middle, each man using the same techniques at the exact same time. Wesley needs an angle, and spots a DRY ERASE BOARD the words "Action Items" written on it. He fires at it, and his bullets bounce off it at an angle where one of them strikes Cross in the shoulder... THWAP!!! Cross can't believe he's hit but he doesn't have time to flinch... right as Wesley fires again, he turns, barely avoiding the rain of bullets and leaps through a nearby window, smashing the glass out,
cross		Wesley! This takes Wesley aback...
fox		You did it, baby! Son of a bitch, you did it. You put down motherfucking Cross! Wesley looks down and sees some of Cross's blood on his hands from their clench. There is also some on the gun he is holding. ar --h d ed crun. Wesley reaches down and takes the other pearl-handled gun from where it dropped and looks over them both.
wesley		He said... he said 'pies on the Fraternity...' Fox measures him, like she's not sure if he's telling the whole story. Finally, she nods...
fox		Well... damn, I couldn't be more proud of you, baby! Let's go lay this on Sloan!
wesley		Yeah, sure.
fox		What's wrong?
wesley		I think I need.a minute to myself.
wesley		Naah, that's all right. You need to get stitched up. I'll meet you at that Korean place.
fox		You sure? But he's already walking off. She watches him go, thinking...
wesley		Hey.
kid		Hey.
wesley		You live here? The kid.nods .
anna		Come in, Wesley. He stares at her, trying to figure this out. He steps...
anna		He's dead, isn't he? There's no point lying to this woman...
wesley		Yes, ma'am. She nods knowingly, sadly.
anna		He told me if he didn't come back... it would be you who pulled the trigger.
wesley		He killed my father...
anna		I think you need to meet someone... she leads Wesley into another room, where a five-year-old boy, plays the floor.
wesley		My brother?
anna		Half-brother. But both of you, you are both 100 percent your.father's boys. I've seen that from the beginning. Andrew is busy playing with a couple of BLACK TOY BUILDINGS on the floor. Wesley studies the little guy, still confused.
anna		would you like some coffee?
wesley		I'm okay. Wesley sets the key down on the table.
anna		I guess it's not much of an inheritance.
anna		I want you to know that he forgave you before you ever pulled the trigger. He tried to keep you out of it for so long...
wesley		Why didn't he just tell me?
anna		once they had you... he couldn't risk it unless you were alone. He knew his one shot at telling you might be his last. Her eyes harden a little bit.
wesley		I'll be back as soon as this is over.
anna		You have family here. Wesley nods, these words meaning so much to him.
fox		Jesus. She squints, the setting sunlight nearly blinding her as all she can see is a silhouette...
wesley		Skipped the hospital?
fox		He picked me clean and I don't care much for needles. She blows out a lungful of smoke and watches as it rises toward the ceiling.
wesley		I'm all right.
fox		They got some good shit. Ostrich, chicken... won't fill you up too much if you're watching your calories.
wesley		Naah.
fox		Well, the big man should be here any minute...
wesley		Yeah.
fox		Baby, you can ask me anything you want. He focuses on her eyes, zeroing in on the pupils.
wesley		Did you know Cross was my father?
fox		What?
wesley		Did you know? Closer, closer... tight on those pupils...
o aw		What're you talking about Wesley? Cross killed your father.
fox		Goddammit, Wesley... She stabs out her cigarette, crushing it on the hot grill so that it SIZZLES.
wesley		Arrrh!
fox		You shoulda known better, baby... But he rolls over, taking Fox with him, and now the oven- is burning into her back. With all her strength, she bucks him off and then flips herself backwards off the table. With another kick, she sends the hot table flying at him. It rips free from its wiring, and the nozzle sprays gas out into the restaurant... SSSSSSSSS... Wesley knocks the flying table out of the way, but not before it burns his arm as he blocks it. Spotting his guns, he sprints for them as Fox unleashes a hailstorm of bullets. But he's too damn fast, and he dives across the floor Pete Rose style, sliding to a stop at the precise moment where his hands come u holSling his weapons. In.one fluid motion, he flips back over and EAM! BAM!
sloan		He knows.
wesley		My father... he was working on a plan, right?
anna		I don't know. There was so much he wanted to keep away from us... Wesley moves into Andrew's roan... where the boy is still playing with the black model buildings. Wesley moves over and crouches down next to Andrew.
wesley		Can I see that for a second? The boy hands him the building in his hand. It is painted jet black, except for one corner of the first floor, which is painted red. Wesley looks up at Anna.
anna		Do you know the answer to that? Wesley looks up at her, resolve on his face.
wesley		No. But I know who does.
nicole		Jesus...  Wesley? Is that you? He looks bruised and battered, but there is a hardness to his eyes.
wesley		It's me, Nicole.
nicole		What happened to you? Wesley wipes his eyebrow with his thumb, like he's considering what he wants to say next.
wesley		I asked you once if you thought I was an observant person. She doesn't understand... but suddenly we...
wesley		 Maybe I have and I'm just not telling you. .and now with the gift of hindsight, we see that Wesley meant what he said, and we...
wesley		Sloan didn't just have one person in my office watching me, he had two.
nicole		What are you talking about?
wesley		What name do you go by? The Intern? He points at her tattoo.
nicole		Sloan's not your biggest problem, fuckface.
wesley		Yeah? Why's that? She reaches over, slowly, so he knows she's not going to go for a knife... and she turns on a small TELEVISION sitting on the kitchen counter. The screen comes to life, showing an inf mercial for the F ob'e. Nicole shakes her head and. flips up the channels... and now we see what she wanted to show him...
reporter		.responsible for several recent shootings, including one tonight at this Korean restaurant downtown and another at an outdoor mall. Details are sketchy, but we repeat, if you see this man, please contact...
janice		He was aggressive toward me and other employees... a very negative person, extremely negative. I can't even repeat the words that came out of his mouth the day we let him go...
wesley		Motherfucker. Dispose of the weapon...
nicole		That's right. And the cops were told to watch this place too. You have nowhere to go. He's smarter than you. He'll feed the cops evidence singling you out for every hit the Fraternity has pulled in the last ten years.
wesley		 I'm only going to ask you one more time. Where can I find him?
nicole		You won't get to him. You can't. The cops will be here any second! Wesley reaches over- -and cranks up a gas burner, the menacing flame on high.
wesley		Then this is going to get painful quickly. She stares at that blue flame, fear in her eyes for the first time. He starts pushing her head toward it, closer and closer...
cop		What the fuck?
cop 2		What is it? The first cop points up toward Wesley on the roof.
helicopter pilot		 Negative, roof is clean.
sarah helms		The car is here.
henry helms		 What's all this?
lead bodyguard		We're not taking any chances. He shuts the door for them before climbing behind the steering wheel. The limo starts to make its way down the drive, flanked in front and in back by dark SUBURBANS and the motorcycle cops.
the gunsmith		 Nothing yet, sir.
sloan		Hold until I give the word. He clicks off the radio and looks into his palm, where- e's holding that pearl handled aun, fingering the dried blood.
sloan		 Here comes the car. Any minute now. Take your positions. Sloan leans out over the edge of his building, gun ready.
wesley		Looks like you missed your chance. Now where is Sloan? The Gunsmith feels the edge in Wesley's voice.
gunsmith		You don't understand, man. This ain't about Helms. The Intern told you right where to go... He smiles.
the butcher		Like I told you... the blade will always live on.
wesley		I remember some dumb shit like that coming out of your mouth. Wesley tosses the guns in his pockets and then nulls out the kniZ2 in his shoulder. They charge each other, the blades whizzing and clanging off each other as each tries to gain an edge. The fight spills out the front door, and into...
the butcher		I can't see!
wesley		But you can hear. So hear this: To cut the subclavian artery, hold the knife ice- pick style... Wesley lunges and the Butcher is defenseless to stop it.
the pharmacist		Three on one, mate. You're out of ammo. And you're in a part of the map with no Fraternity stashes.
wesley		I'm working off of a different map. With that, the world goes back 12 its natural colorB, and he races for the building, jumping up onto and over a Lexus parked at the curb. The three assassins fire relentlessly at him, but their bullets slam into the car, smashing it to bits... as... . on the other side of it, Wesley goes into a slide just as he reaches that cement block... affixed to it is a small SILVER CROSSI Wesley slaps his hand on the Cross and the cement block mechanically opens, revealing: a new pair of sophisticated MA ISHIS I As his adversaries converge on him, Wesley takes the guns, spins, splits both hands apart and we...
the pharmacist		Bugger.
wesley		Where is he?
the gardener		Where it started.. BAN! Wesley ends it for the Gardener.
sloan		Can't say I don't have a sense of irony. The place I first decided to bring you in. Wesley is clutching his wounded shoulder with his wounded hand as blood starts to seep out of it in big red drops.
wesley		But now you have to dispose of the weapon.
sloan		In some ways it pains me to do so. You 460 are like the son I never had.
wesley		Fuck you. Sloan's eyes narrow.
sloan		Fine. Keep your worthless dignity. You're still just the same loser we plucked off the street six weeks ago. Wesley continues to bleed, taking this in. Sloan laughs derisively.
wesley		Six weeks ago, I was ordinary and pathetic. We see now that his healthy hand is inching away from his bleeding arm, reaching into his sleeve...
wesley		I'm done with this life. Just like my father. And with that, Wes1gy drops the n out of his h
receptionist		You're the new guy, huh?
wesley		Just started last week.
receptionist		Where'd you move here from?
wesley		All over the place, really. Nothing too exciting.
receptionist		Well, welcome to the team. Just watch out for Brokaw. He'll stab you in the back first chance he gets. Just then, a harried man, BROKAW, comes storming up.
brokaw		Jesus, Connie, don't you have some faxes to get to? The receptionist hurries away, making a face as she does.
wesley		Yes, sir.
brokaw		Listen, Jim, I don't want to get started off on the wrong foot here, but we.have numbers to make and if we don't make those numbers, it's my ass on the line. And if my ass gets chewed out by regional, I can guarantee.that your ass is gonna be Purina doggy chow. Now I'm not sure how they ran things... Wesley stares at that mouth zeroing in further and-- further, until the words become gibberish, just like they did with Janice. Wesley catches himself and snaps out of it, just in time to hear...
wesley		Of course.
brokaw		Good boy. With that, he hurries away, his pants riding so high up his ass that they look like they may burst at any second. Wesley stares up at the clock on his monitor: it reads 11:15. He stands up, stretches, and makes his way to the receptionist's desk. She looks up, bites her lower lip...
wesley		You want to take a break with me?
receptionist		Sure! She stands and they move toward the elevators, waiting for the doors to open.
wesley		Well, you'll find there's nothing "usual" about me. They climb in. THE CAMERA PUSHES IN TIGHTER AND TIGHTER on Wesley's face...
****Dialogues from script :War_Horse.txt****

farmer		Come on, easy, girl. Easy, girl. Easy.
farmer 2		This is a stubborn one, huh?
farmer 3		There we go. Who's a clever girl?
farmer 2		Easy does it. Easy does it. Come on, steady does it.
si easton		Forget it, Ted. He's half thoroughbred and not got a day's work in him.  Now, there... There's your ticket.
dad		But look at him, Si. Look at that creature.
si easton		Don't be daft. You need something solid to plow a field.
dad		 Yeah, but he's something else, that one.
auctioneer		Alright gentlemen - settle down - settle down - horses on my right - men with money in their pockets on my left - it's the perfect combination. Is Fred Goddard here? FRED shouts his reply from the crowd.
fred		YES! I's here.
auctioneer		Good - more money than sense. Dave Hill?
dave		I'm here. Yes!
auctioneer		Bugger off, you tight bastard - you've been coming here for 20 years - never bought so much as a pork scratching.
dad		One guinea.
auctioneer		One guinea, one guinea, one guinea...
auctioneer		Any advance on one guinea? Any advance on one guinea?
lyons		Two guineas. DAD Three!
si easton		Ted Narracott - it's completely the wrong animal.
dad		Si Easton - I'm not gonna let that bastard see me off.
lyons		Five guineas.
dad		Six! SI EASTON Oh for the love of...!
lyons		Seven.
dad		Greedy sod thinks he can just buy anybody.  Eight.
si easton		Stop it - he's your landlord - you can't be picking fights with him.
lyons		Ten guineas.
si easton		You haven't got the money. Let's go home - let's have a pint.
dad		Eleven guineas, sir, from as good a man as any in this town.
auctioneer		Do I hear twelve guineas? Twelve guineas?
si easton		That's top price for a workin' animal. Ted! Save it for the shire!
dad		There are big days and there are small days. Which will it be?
auctioneer		Do I hear any advance on eleven guineas?
david lyons		Just let him go, dad, I don't care for him, he's too... jumpy.
lyons		Shall we say - twenty five?
si easton		Well, he's got you there. Nice try, Ted.
andrew		You were great, Mr N. Gave him a run for his money.
auctioneer		Going, going...
dad		Thirty. Thirty guineas!
auctioneer		Thirty guineas. Thirty guineas. Going going gone - to Mister Ted Narracott.
si easton		What have you done, Ted? What have you done?
lyons		Quite a beast, there. But what you gonna do with him - on a working farm? I hope you got the rent, Ted. I'll be around for it when it comes due.
si easton		You're a fool, Ted. And our Rosie'll never forgive you.
albert		That's Mooney's colt!
albert		You bought him? MRS. NARRACOTT What'd you pay for him?
dad		I won't tell you a lie - though I would love to. Thirty guineas.
dad		He's a strong one, Rosie. Look at the way he holds his head!
albert		No.
albert		No. No, please don't take him back.
dad		We can't take him back till he's broken in.
albert		Please, Mum. Please let me. I can do it.
dad		We have to keep him. We've no choice.
dad		It was Lyons.
albie		Don't worry, Mum - I'll raise him - and I'll raise him good.
albert		Whoa. I want you to stay there, Joey. Stay. That's it. Good boy. That's it, you've got it.
andrew		Hey, look at him, Albie. He's playing "Grandma's Footsteps."
albert		Right, come on, Joey. Back you go. Come on. Back you go.  You're all right. That's it. Good boy. Right. You've gotta stay there, understand?
andrew		Good boy. Good.  Now call him. Whistle.
albert		Come now, Joey. Come on.
andrew		Don't think he fancies your owls.
albert		No, I read it in a story. It's how the Indians used to summon their horses. He gently strokes Joey's nose.
andrew		My dad had a dog who stayed when you called him. He used to run up behind you when you weren't looking, and uh...
albert		He's not a dog. He's just puzzling it through.
andrew		Brilliant. Look at you.
lyons		There's only fifteen here. DAD The rest will come.
lyons		You know by rights I could take this farm back today, don't you? And I'm a great believer in my rights.
dad		It will come.
lyons		If you drank less beer and bought fewer horses you might be able to look your landlord in the eye, Narracott.
dad		I said I'll pay you. We got to plant the bottom field.
lyons		Bottom field's rock hard. Only stones down there.
dad		No, we're going to plow it. Just give me `til the autumn. I'll pay every penny I owe you. With interest.
lyons		How you going to plow it? Not with that fancy animal of yours?
dad		He'll do it.
lyons		You'll not get that one in a harness, let alone pulling a plow. Even drunk on a Tuesday night, you know that. And I can't wait for the money - there's a war coming.
dad		I promise you that field will be plowed. We'll plant it with turnips. And the money will be yours when harvest comes.
lyons		Very well - if that fancy plows that field I'll give you till October to set things straight.
albert		What if he doesn't?
lyons		I'll take the horse on the day he fails.  And I'll take your father's farm and give it to working men who can hold their pints and hold their heads high in decent company.
albert		No, please. Sir, you can't do that.
lyons		Now, now, now, lad. What - are you bladdered as well?! Ted Narracott - I got you down in my book!
albert		You can't harness him.
dad		He's got to be collared. Dad starts to grapple with Joey desperately flailing in an attempt to get the harness onto Joey. Joey is completely confused and frightened.
albert		No, you can't. Look, you're scaring him, Dad. You're scaring him. He...  He can't take a plow!
dad		He's got to plow!
albert		He won't be able to do it - he's too young - he's not even been backed yet....
albert		It's alright, boy. It's alright. It's alright. It's alright.
dad		He's worth nothing to me! If he won't take the collar, he's not worth a damn thing!
albert		Dad? He grabs the rifle, but Dad shoves him away.
dad		Move aside.
albert		Dad. Stop.
albert		You were right what you said, Dad. "He'll do it," you told Lyons, "He'll plow that field." And he will! You'll see. He'll show you. We'll show you. We'll get it done.
albert		How are you today, Joey? I don't know much about life, boy, but I do know that there are big days and there are small days. And most days are small days, and, well, they don't matter much to anyone - but this - well, this is a big one. This is our big day. Well, it's cold out there. So I'm going to take this off -  Well, if it's tough for you - it should be tough for me, too...
si easton		Too large, too rocky, matted with grass roots. Even a sturdy plow horse'd never manage it alone.
andrew		Yet he will, I say.
si easton		You'd swear he'd sprout wings and fly if Albert had told you so.  It's a fine thing, loyal to your mate. Even if he is a bit barmy. A team of two might manage, given a month and good weather.
lyons		Ted too squeamish to watch, is he? SI EASTON `Course he's watching.
lyons		Well, you've raised him up a true Narracott, Ted, picture of his father, he is: not a dollop of ordinary sense but that thick stubbornness that'll lead him to insist on the impossible.
albert		See Joey - I got the collar, too!
lyons		You'd be better off startin' at the top of the hill and goin' down! Gravity's the only friend you're gonna have today, young lad. ALBERT Walk on, Joey! Walk on! Come on, Joey, walk on. Walk on, boy.
ted		 It'll take the whip to move him.
lyons		Bravo! You've reached the top of the hill! Off you go again, boy! You'll make even better time comin' down!!
albert		Good boy. Good lad. Good lad. Now walk on. Good boy.
lyons		Look look look! The plow hasn't even cut yet!
albert		Do you know - I believe we can do it, Joey. I knew when I first saw you that you'd be the best of us. That's why he bought you. He knows you've all the courage he never had. I knew when I first saw you that you'd be the one who'd save us.
lyons		You've got no chance, lad. He'll not turn over half an acre. Give it up now. You've done well. You've tried hard. You're more of a man than your father.
si easton		Come on now, Mr. Lyons, that's a bit rough, isn't it? LYONS  Well, he'll destroy that horse.
neighbour		Your wool.  I'm sorry, Rosie.
albert		Now, boy! You've got to do it, Joey. You don't know, so I'm gonna have to do the knowing for you when the rest of our lives depend on this! So get set to pull - and pull straight! And pull hard!
andrew		Walk on! Walk on! Walk on! Walk on, Joey!
albert		Whoa, Joey! Whoa, Joey! Joey! Joey, whoa whoa whoa! Joey, stop! You'll break the blade -
andrew		Will you look at you?
lyons		I'd not let a child of mine slip in the mud alongside a plow blade. He could lose a foot!
rosie narracott		You'll likelier lose an eye, Mr. Lyons, if you carry on prating at me how to manage my son! Or my plow, or my horse, or my field, or my farm! Dad sits nearby, watching this exchange with silent approval. Lyons stares at her, gape-mouthed, as she turns her attention back to Albert.
andrew		Get it done, Albie! Get it done!
rosie		You're as battered and bloodied as he is.
albert		And where's Dad?
rosie		Still in the bottom field.
albert		Stumbling about, I suppose.
rosie		It's not the drink, Albert, that makes him stumble -
albert		 He drinks, mum.
rosie		Well, so might you if you'd been where he's been, seen what he's seen!
albert		Well, he don't talk to me about it.
rosie		He don't talk about it because he can't. There aren't words for some things. Come here...
rosie		And that is the Queen's South Africa Medal. Every man who fought in the Boer War got one of those. But this...
albert		Not dad's?
rosie		Well it ain't mine, dear. He got that after the fighting at Transvaal. After he'd been hurt, and he'd saved some other lads, and well... I don't know what else, he won't tell me either. But the first day he got home he just... tossed them out. First day he could walk, he threw `em straight in the dustbin, and wouldn't hear a word I said not to. Albert nods, looking at the medal and campaign pennant. She takes the medal back, puts it in the sash, and begins to wrap it again.
rosie		Well, whether or not you think you'd do the same thing as him... Think how brave he is for refusing to be proud.
albert		 You see this, Joey? It's been through an entire war.
david		Um, I'm the only boy that drives in the village. No one else drives but me.
young woman		Oh, yeah?
david		That's right and this is my dad's car. You're lucky that you're in it. I'm not normally allowed to drive it `cause it's so -
young woman		Is he a friend of yours?
albert		Come on, boy, let's show her how to fly!
albert		We can try planting something else, or we could hire ourselves out to Uncle Bob.
dad		I used to believe that God gave each man his fair portion of bad luck. I don't feel that any more. I've had more than my share.  You'll stop loving me, Rose. And I won't blame you when you do.
rose		Well, I might hate you more - but I'll never love you less. Then somewhere in the distance, an unfamiliar sound...
motorbike rider		It's war! The bike comes to a stop in the market place. The rider takes off his goggles.
albert		Look smart, Joey lad, it's the Tavistock Fair!
albert		What has he done with him?
recruiting officer		Last name first. First name, middle name, last.
dad		Take my word for it - finest horse in the parish. Goes like a racer, strong, decent, very fine.
sam perkins		No curbs, no splints, good feet and teeth. He's as sound as a bell, sir.
captain nicholls		And how much are you charging, sir - for this strong, decent, and very fine animal?! DAD Forty.
captain nicholls		I'll give you twenty and not a penny more.
dad		Twenty is no good to me, Captain. Thirty five and he's yours.
captain nicholls		I don't even know how he rides.
dad		Oh, he rides... Splendidly. You'll be astonished. I promise you that.  Finest horse in all of Devon. Finest horse I ever seen.
captain nicholls		Thank you.
albert		You can't! You can't, he's mine! I trained him!
dad		Albert.
albert		You can't have him. He's my horse, sir.
captain nicholls		I'm afraid it's too late, lad. I've just paid thirty guineas for him.
albert		 He won't obey anyone else. He won't be any good in the war, neither. He...he shies at every sound!
captain nicholls		I'm sorry.
albert		Well, if Joey's going, I'm going, too. I'm volunteering.
captain nicholls		I see. What's your name, lad?
albert		Albert, sir. CAPTAIN NICHOLLS And how old are you, Albert?
albert		Nineteen, sir.
captain nichols		Is that the truth?
albert		No sir. But, but I look nineteen and I'm bigger than most nineteen-year- olds, sir! And I'm strong, sir! And I...I'm not afraid of anything.
captain nicholls		I don't doubt your qualifications, Albert, but the law is very clear about the proper age for soldiering, and your father's done what he had to do. You know that. Thirty guineas isn't nearly enough to purchase a horse as fine as your Joey, I know that. But it's all I've got. Will you lease him to me, Albert, to be my own mount?  I promise you, man to man, that I'll look after him as closely as you've done, I'll respect him and all the care that you've taken with him. And if I can - I'll return him to your care.
albert		It's all right, boy...
sam perkins		All right, turn it in, eh? That's enough. He's a horse, not a dog. Now, on your way.  Come on.
dad		Do you want to lose the farm, Rose?
rosie		It's the way you did it.
dad		But we're at war.
rosie		Aren't we just.
albert		Joey...
sam perkins		Here now, I've told you - sling your hook!
captain nicholls		Let him be, Perkins. ALBERT This isn't the end. This isn't the end, my brother... I, Albert Narracott, solemnly swear we will be together again. Wherever you are, I will find you. And I will bring you home!
sam perkins		Whoa. Steady, steady. Steady now, come on. Walk on! Walk on now, come on!
sam perkins		Whoa whoa whoa, Joey! Stop muckin' about, you hear? Yer in the army now, son.
captain nicholls		Gently, Perkins. I don't want to sour him.
sam perkins		There'll be nothing gentle about the war, sir. And there'll be nothing gentle about this one either!
captain nicholls		Who?
charlie waverly		Perkins. Glad he's on our side.
major stewart		Not bad. Not bad at all. Still not a patch on my Topthorn.
captain nicholls		I wouldn't be so sure. I think he's got potential. He's certainly got the bit between his teeth.
charlie waverly		I actually think my Blenheim is faster than the pair of them.
major stewart		Clear off!
sam perkins		Yes, sir!
major stewart		No excuses, no mistakes - every horse groomed and fit for presentation! I want a full practice charge tomorrow.
sam perkins		Sir.
major stewart		Thought you two had bottled out.
charlie waverly		As if.
major stewart		All right, then, let's see what you two jokers are made of, shall we?
captain nicholls		This is what quiet confidence looks like.
charlie waverly		I'll wait for you two at the Duke of York.
major stewart		Over to you, Captain Nicholls.
captain nicholls		Draw...swords!
major stewart		Whoa. Whoa.
captain nicholls		Nice of you to turn up.
major stewart		He's got speed...I'll give him that. But has he got stamina?
captain nicholls		He has everything.
major stewart		What are you up to?
captain nicholls		I'm writing a letter.
major stewart		With a picture in it? CAPTAIN NICHOLLS It's to the boy who owned Joey. I want to show him how wonderful he's looking.
major stewart		Before we take him away across the Channel to face a million Germans guns.
captain nicholls		Yes. Before that...
major stewart		4 a.m. start tomorrow - travelling with the Dragoon Guards and the Royals. Transport detachment - they'll need to be at the docks at 5 am. Check all kit. Battle orders: no polishing - buttons, helmet buckles, stirrup irons - let `em all go dull. I want nothing to flash in the sun and give us away.
captain nicholls		Of course.
major stewart		Charlie...
charlie waverly		Jamie.
captain nicholls		Charlie.
charlie waverly		What do you think of the cap?
captain nicholls		I'm not sure it's going to make a lot of difference to the Germans.
charlie waverly		Oh, I don't know about that. Think about it - you're a Boche, just working out which of two chaps to shoot - and you thought - "Good Lord - one of them really is wearing a very stylish cap indeed!" You might shoot the other one instead.
captain nicholls		Or, alternatively, think - "I fancy that cap" and kill you first of all.
charlie waverly		Hadn't thought of that.
captain nicholls		Numbers?
captain nicholls		Twice our size...
major stewart		In regiments of horse and men, the advantage is ours.
major stewart		Right. Good. So - today it is. Charlie - tell the men.
charlie waverly		Salisbury formation?
major stewart		Salisbury formation. We'll charge through them and secure the ground behind.
major stewart		Excellent work, Sergeant Major. Time spent on reconnaissance is rarely wasted.
captain nicholls		Thank you, Singh.  Jamie!
major stewart		Not having scruples, are you, Jim?
captain nicholls		No. I understand the surprise is everything. But if it must be done, let's do it quickly.
charlie waverly		Never been better. Literally, never better.
major stewart		Prepare to mount! Mount!
captain nicholls		Thank you, Standley.  Hey, Joey. My bonny boy. You're all right, aren't you, Joey? Hey?
major stewart		Gentleman. It is an honour to ride beside you. Make the Kaiser rue the day he dared to cross swords with us. Let every man make himself, his King, his country, and his fallen comrades proud! Be brave. Fear God. Honor the King!
troopers		 Fear God. Honor the King!
major stewart		Draw swords! The men draw their sabres in silence. The birds chirping, oblivious.
captain nicholls		Good luck, my friends.
major stewart		Forward, to walk! Walk...march!
german soldier		Kavallerie!
captain nicholls		CHARGE!
german officer		 What? Did you think that a garrison on open ground would go undefended? Look at yourself! Who do you think you are?!!
german officer		If they're injured, shoot them. JUNIOR GERMAN OFFICER And the others, sir?
german officer		The others you round up and take to base camp - they will pull guns.
third officer		You'll never get fancy horses like these to pull guns.
german officer		Then shoot them also.
gunther		Sir - perhaps we could use some of them with the ambulances - to get the injured men off the field.
german officer		Will they take the harness?
gunther		I'd like to try, sir.
michael		It won't work - they're cavalry
gunther		Let's try.
michael		You won't get the harness on.
gunther		Come on, Michael.
michael		Gunther! It's hopeless - we can't help them.
gunther		Well, well, look at you. Whoever taught you this has just saved your life.
si easton		Hello the farm!
rosie		 Hello, Si Easton!
si easton		I was at the post office and while I was there, Mrs. Allen said a parcel had come for Albert, from the, from the, from over there - and I thought I could go up that way in the morning. And - here it is.
albert		Well, who'd be sending me a parcel over there?
dad		Well, open it and see.
albert		It's a sketchbook...  That's Captain Nicholls' sketchbook! See that? That's a picture of Joey! ROSIE It's a picture of Joey. Well, I never!
albert		 And there's a letter...
rosie		Well, go on then, go on.
albert		All right.  Captain Nicholls, who died...Captain Nicholls, who died in action today left you this. Yours, Sergeant Sam Perkins.
rosie		You weren't to know it was bad news.
albert		He was riding Joey when he died.
rosie		You don't know that he was riding him...
albert		"In action," it says.
gunther		They're pushing through?
gunther		Yes, sir. Perhaps I can keep my brother here with me, he's also very good with horses.
michael		It's all right, Gunther.
gunther		You are not going. I'll tell them you are only fourteen, that you're a boy.
michael		Father signed me in. He knew my age -and so do they.
gunther		Of course she did. I just wasn't listening. But you need to listen now! I promised her, I made her a solemn promise, that you would be safe with me. With me, Michael!!
michael		Then what?
gunther		I'm giving this to you. For luck.
german officer		Get back in line! Line!
michael		I'm hungry. Did you bring food? GUNTHER I'm sorry.
michael		Will Father be ashamed?
gunther		He will pretend to be. Maybe at first he will be. But in the end, he will be glad.
michael		And us? What about us?
gunther		Yes.
michael		What about the women?
gunther		Not as good as the food.
michael		Because...they've eaten too much of the food?
gunther		You are too young for war. And you're too young for women!
michael		I don't feel so young. Not anymore.
gunther		Go to sleep - we have a big night of riding ahead. Goodnight, Michael.
michael		Night night, Gunther.
german soldier		Hei! In die windmhle!
gunther		Go, go, go...
michael		Okay.
gunther		Yes, sir.
gunther		A promise.
emilie		Grandpre.
grandfather		The wind plays tricks with the noise - it's moving away from us.
emilie		I can hear it, Grandpre, and there is no wind. You shouldn't lie to me.
grandfather		Here. There is no wind here. But over there - a wind so strong it will lift you off the ground...
emilie		You lie about everything. You say you aren't worried but it's clear you are. I know the war is approaching but you say, "Oh, it's just a trick of the wind."
grandfather		 Did I say that?
emilie		You started lying when Mama and Papa went away.
grandfather		The truth is - He feeds her a spoonful of the medicine.
emilie		If you tell me the truth about the war, I will tell you the truth about the big horses I've been keeping in the windmill.
grandfather		 Now - who is the one telling lies! EXT. COURTYARD. SAME.
grandfather		In the windmill?
emilie		Yes. They were standing in the windmill waiting for Don Quixote. This is Franois .
grandfather		Yeah.
emilie		I named them after two boys who broke my heart last Summer.
grandfather		They must belong to someone. Horses like this don't just appear from a fairy-tale.
emilie		Yes - I know, Grandpre. They are not unicorns - so I will be fair and wait -- one day.
grandfather		Emilie... Emilie...
emilie		And if no one comes to get them by night-time, then they belong to me.
grandfather		Emilie. Look at me. You cannot ride.
emilie		Mother used to tell me how my bones would give way with the slightest bump or fall.
grandfather		Yes. That's right. So it is settled? She kisses his cheek --
emilie		It will only be settled when I decide which one to ride first.
grandfather		But it's - Over my dead body!
emilie		At least I won't have long to wait.
emilie		 Unfortunately he was in love with a girl called Marie, who had your teeth. She fell for a boy called Claude - who broke my heart. And who I intend to marry one day.
emilie		He doesn't think we can do it. But we will show him, won't we?
grandfather		You'll kill yourself.
emilie		Only if you get in my way to make me fall.
grandfather		Oh please, come off the ladd--
german officer		Halt! Und aussteigen!
grandfather		My name is Bonnard - this is my land. Why are you here?
soldiers		Food for the soldiers at the front. Everyone must give their share.
grandfather		They are taking everything. Where are the horses?
emilie		What horses?
german soldier		What is it?
grandfather		Leave it if you don't know what it's for.
german soldier		A pot is a pot. We'll find some use for it. Sir, where's the livestock? Brandt sits quietly, casually using his finger to scoop jam from an open jar.
grandfather		I make jam. We have no animals.
german soldier		But there's fresh hay in your barn.
emilie		We use it to replace the mattress stuffings.
german soldier		Her grandfather?
grandfather		Yes.
german soldier		Where are her parents?
emilie		 They're dead. They died.
german soldier		What is that?
grandfather		The wind. It plays tricks in the attic.
brandt		There is no wind.
grandfather		An old house creaks.  Go - close the shutters.
german soldier		She's sickly, no? GRANDFATHER If you or any of your friends harm her, as old as I am, I will kill you.
german soldier		You know, I was going to give you back your pot. But now I'm going to keep it. For soup.
brandt		We will be back in the new season.
emilie		And you've never done a brave thing in your life?
grandfather		Maybe there are different ways to be brave. Did you know the French have the best carrier pigeons? And this could be the difference in the war - our messages getting through.
emilie		I don't want to hear about the birds.
grandfather		They are released at the front and told to go home - this is all they know. But to get there they must fly over a war. Can you imagine such a thing? Here you are flying over so much pain and terror - and you know you can never look down. You have to look forward or you'll never get home. I ask you - what could be braver than that?
emilie		What is that?
grandfather		A present.
emilie		I hope you have not bought me a disgusting dress that I then have to wear like last year.
grandfather		 It was disgusting?
emilie		Yes. I looked like an ugly nun.
grandfather		Anything you say, my sweet one. Anything-you-say! You are, of course, the boss. It's just an old thing I found - don't worry yourself - leave it, I'll put it back. He leaves the room. Now Emilie is alone and she can't help it when she brings her eyes back to the object covered by the rug. She looks back over her shoulder to make sure she's not being watched and then lifts one corner of the rug. Her face explodes with a gorgeous smile. She pulls off the rug that is covering the big thing and...it is a gorgeous old saddle. She runs her hand along the saddle -- can hardly believe it.
grandfather		It was your mother's. I hid it, so as not to encourage you. Emilie, I want you to ride very slowly, very carefully. And promise me you won't go far --
emilie		Of course. Okay, I promise.
grandfather		To the top of the hill and straight back again.
emilie		I promise.
grandfather		Slowly...slowly...
emilie		No! Let go of me! No!
grandfather		She is my granddaughter! Emilie, stop! Don't hurt her, please! Don't hurt her.
emilie		You don't need them! There are so many others!
grandfather		Please, take the bigger one and leave the smaller one. You are breaking my granddaughter's heart.
brandt		 The war has taken everything from everyone.
grandfather		 What will happen to them?
brandt		They will pull artillery until they DIE - EMILIE  Franois!
brandt		- or until the war is over.
grandfather		It will never be over!
brandt		You have your answer then.
brandt		Heiglemann - these are yours.
friedrich		Yes, sir.
brandt		They look strong - should last a month or two. FRIEDRICH is an unprepossessing, chubby man. He marvels at Topthorn.
friedrich		You are beautiful.
artillery officer		Pull together!
friedrich		Stop! Stop!
artillery officer		Heiglemann, bring up another horse!
brandt		That one!
friedrich		He's a good horse, sir. But if you move him up to the heavy gun, he will be no use at all. Prince is already losing condition. His leg, sir.
brandt		You have given them names?
friedrich		Yes, sir.
brandt		You should never give a name to anything you are certain to lose. FRIEDRICH His leg is not good enough, sir.
brandt		Private, you will do as you are told.  Hook him up.
friedrich		As you see, sir, this one is stronger. Brandt takes up Friedrich, and Joey's, offer -
brandt		Hook him up.
officer		Halt! Halt! Take the horses away!
artillery officer		Shell!
sergeant martin		Valuables in the bucket, lads. If you live, you'll get them back. If you live, you'll get them back. Good lads.
andrew		Maybe it's a drill, Albie. Maybe it's a drill like last time.
david		Love letter?
albert		That's my business.
david		I hear you and your mate were doing bird imitations again. You gonna write a letter to your horse?
albert		 Stay here.
david		I remember you somersaulting through the air.
albert		Who was that girl you were with?
david		There was a girl?
albert		There was. Don't you remember?
david		It was just some girl, I suppose. I don't recall which one. I do remember you falling on your bum in a ditch.
andrew		You did that? You fell on your bum?
sergeant martin		Be ready! Be ready! Let's go, men, get ready to go! Get ready to move out! Stay in position!
david		Hold your nerve, boys. Remember, it's not far to go. There's a way through.  Run fast, keep your wits about you, keep your eyes open and God and the King will keep an eye on you. Company will fix bayonets! Fix bayonets!
albert		You know what it reminds me of out there?
andrew		What?
albert		That bloody impossible lower field the day me and Joey plowed it. Best day of my life that was and you were there.
andrew		And this here is the worst day of my life, about to begin, and you're here cheering me on. Us two, always. And him.
soldier		Yes, sir.
david		Come on, boys, come on. To the ladder!
albert		 Stick close to the gentry, that's our ticket, yeah? We have the pluck but they have the luck. They both smile. And then the fear takes over again. Andrew particularly feels as though he is on the very edge now. David urges them forward.
david		You, too, Narracott.  And you, too.
sergeant martin		Listen to your sergeant!
soldiers		Yes, sir!
sergeant		Do you understand me? Do you understand what I'm telling you, son? You take this rifle and you shoot them dead. Understand?
albert		It's good. Andrew, it's good. Andrew! Nobody's retreating today. Andrew! Andrew! Nobody. Is retreating. Today.
david		I'm shot! No!
albert		You'll be all right here. You'll be safe. Someone'll come for ya.
david		Albert. Albert, listen...
albert		It's all right. It's all right. We're Devon boys, yeah? David looks at Albert as though seeing him for the first time.
david		Yeah...
random soldier		Get down! Albert continues forward to dive into another shell hole, nearer to the German line. He scrambles from shell hole to shell hole. Now he's very close to the machine gun position.
andrew		NO!
albert		We made it. We made it.
soldier		Gas! Gas! Gas!
andrew		Albie...
german officer		Hey, there's no stopping here. Keep them moving.
friedrich		Sir, there's something wrong. This one needs to rest.
german officer		There's no rest for them. Move them along. Move them along!
friedrich		Please, please, please. Stay on your feet. No, please. No no no...
german officer		They're coming! Leave it, private!
friedrich		Go to hell!
soldier		What the hell is it?
geordie soldier		It looks like a cow.
soldier 2		That definitely isn't a cow.
soldier		 Well, what is it?
second german		It can't be a horse. Nothing alive could be out there.
third german		It isn't a horse. It isn't a horse.
second german		Yes - it's a horse. The second German looks through the periscope, stunned.
third german		It's a horse.
peter		Yeah, it's a horse.
british captain		Well, bugger me. It's a horse.
geordie soldier		Lads, we should call him.
british soldier		How do you call a horse?
peter		He's caught on the wire.
geordie soldier		Oh sod it...
british captain		What do you think you're doing? Get back, do you hear me? Corporal, that's an order! Get back!
british soldier		Listen to him, sir. We can't leave him.
second german		It's a trap.
peter		No, I don't think so. I think he's trying to help.
third german		Scare him back into his hole.
geordie		It's a white flag, ent it? You see the white flag!? I'm just after tending to this here horse, is all!
british captain		Get back, you stupid git!
peter		I thought perhaps you might need these. He holds out the wire cutters. The Geordie, still frightened, stares stupidly at them.
geordie		Yeah, yeah I... Ummm, thanks. Cheers. Cheers...
peter		That...That's a very long strand. When you cut it, it's going to release this -
geordie		You speak good English.
peter		I speak English well.  May I?
geordie		Pity you didn't bring a second pair. Then I could cut the wire here -
peter		WE NEED MORE WIRE CUTTERS!
geordie		Say no more, I'm right behind you.
peter		Delightful. We read, we knit sweaters, and we train our rats to perform circus tricks.
geordie		Well, if ever you need any more rats, we can always send ours over. `Cause we've more than we need, strictly speaking. Besides, they scare off all the pretty girls.
peter		Our girls aren't afraid of rats. GEORDIE Big strapping German girls, eh? Kind what gives robust massages?
peter		Every Thursday! And they bring rum cake on your birthday.
geordie		Look at that horse! Look at the muscles he's got, them long legs. They're made for running, horses. Runnin' away from danger.
peter		Running away is all they have.
geordie		Yet we taught `em opposite. Running into the fray.
peter		War horse.
geordie		Yeah. War horse. And there he is. What a strange beast you've become.
peter		And now? GEORDIE I take him back with me, yeah?
peter		Since I supplied the cutters, the horse is mine. This is fair, no?
geordie		In a pig's eye. He's English, plain to see.
peter		Oh, you mean because he's so filthy?
geordie		Because he's so smart. And you're none too clean yourself.
peter		We could box. And the winner gets the horse.
geordie		No, thanks, pet. Must be careful not to start a war.  Do you have a coin of any sort?
peter		Coin toss?
geordie		Yeah. He takes a coin from his pocket, hands it to the Geordie, who looks at it.
peter		My name is not Fritz - it is Peter.
geordie		Peter - I'm Colin.
peter		You call it, Colin.
geordie		Heads. Peter spins it in the air and lets it fall into the mud. They look down. Peter shakes his head, resigned.
peter		That's the face of my Kaiser and he does not look pleased with me. The horse is yours.
geordie		Gone quiet, hasn't it?
peter		Yes.  But wait half an hour and we'll be shooting again.
geordie		I'm a terrible shot, Pete, don't believe I'll ever hit the target.
peter		Thanks.
geordie		I will.
peter		Our strange beast.
geordie		And you take care of your own strange self.
peter		Colin! A pair of German cutters - in memory of your handsome friend from Dusseldorf.
geordie		Thanks.
peter		Remarkable! A remarkable horse!
sergeant martin		We're full up. Move on.
david		The gas got him - we had to wait till morning.
medical officer		This can't be all of us.
sergeant martin		This is all.  All walking wounded, away to the dressing station! Away to the dressing station!
doctor		What's this doing here?
geordie		We need a vet, sir.
doctor		There are no vets. We've scarcely any horses left.
geordie		He's cut all over, but this leg here's got the worst of it.
doctor		It's probably tetanus. It's no good.
geordie		Please, sir -
doctor		I've all these men to take care of, corporal, you can see that, can't you?
geordie		Please, sir, this horse can pull through anything.
albert		What is it?
an orderly		It's a horse they found, wandering about in No Man's Land.  Down you go.
albert		What kind of an horse?
an orderly		Bloody miraculous kind of an horse, be my guess. Nothing makes it out of No Man's Land.
albert		Miraculous horse...
geordie		 He was alive, y'see, sir, where nothing survives, so to me and me mates, to the men, sir, he's - Well, we have high hopes for him - DOCTOR You should shoot him now.
geordie		Oh, but I can't.
doctor		It'd be a mercy, lad, that leg's not going to mend.
sergeant fry		Ladies, if you please.
soldier		Go on. Do it again. One more whistle.
albert		Joey?
doctor		 Do you know this man?
albert		Narracott, Private Albert Narracott, sir.
doctor		This is a random horse, Narracott, and too badly injured.  Is this man in your care?
an orderly		Yes, sir.
albert		He's not random at all, sir! He's my horse, I raised him, in Devon. Sir, look at his legs! He's got four white socks, he's brown all over -  - and he has a white mark here - like so...
doctor		Take him back.
an orderly		Come on, son.
geordie		Wait! You can't see `cause of the mud.
sergeant fry		All right, break it up. Clear off, the lot of ya.
albert		You see, sir? He's not random at all.
albert		Thank you, sir.
major tompkins		Officers' horses only. All other horses are to be auctioned immediately.
sergeant fry		That is a complete and bloody outrage. It's the lad's horse, sir, from Devon. He raised him up from a pup, he did. Trained him right up to the day when the army came to town.
major tompkins		These aren't my orders, sergeant.  You'll have to take him to market. That's all.
geordie		We've all clubbed together. It's everything we have. There's twenty-nine pounds there. Buy him back.
albert		Does the Major know?
geordie		The Major put in ten.
sergeant fry		Come on, Narracott! Get a move on. We don't want to miss the show.
auctioneer		Seven pounds! Seven pounds there! Seven pounds! Eight pounds here!
geordie		You're alright. Nobody's gonna bid more than fifteen for a thoroughbred. They want work horses.
auctioneer		Next one. We start at four pounds. Four pounds.
sergeant fry		It's the butcher from Cambrai. He's been bidding for the best all morning.
auctioneer		Eleven. Eleven pounds. Eleven pounds.
sergeant fry		Let me handle this, private.  Fifteen, and let that be an end to it.
butcher		Sixteen.
auctioneer		Sixteen pounds.
sergeant fry		Seventeen.
butcher		Twenty of your English pounds. And let THAT be the end of it, my friend.
auctioneer		Twenty pounds.
sergeant fry		Twenty Five.
auctioneer		Twenty five pounds.
butcher		Twenty Six.
auctioneer		Twenty six pounds.
butcher		Twenty eight.
auctioneer		Twenty eight pounds.
sergeant fry		Twenty nine.
butcher		And thirty.
auctioneer		Any advance at thirty pounds?
grandfather		And sir, if you bid against me, I will sell the coat on my back and bid to one hundred and ten. And if you bid against me again, I will sell my farm and bid to a thousand.
auctioneer		One hundred pounds. Going, going, gone.
albert		Sir, I'll give you all your money. Everything you paid when we get back to England. I'll give you twice -
grandfather		You don't know anything about him.
albert		Oh, but you're wrong, sir, I know everything!
grandfather		Yes, you found him! I heard you found a horse in the wire between the armies -
geordie		No, I found him, he raised him -
grandfather		When I heard about the miracle horse, I traveled three days because I knew whose horse it was. My granddaughter's. She saved his life! He was everything to her.
geordie		Where is your granddaughter?
grandfather		The war has taken everything from everyone. He is all that I have left of her.
albert		Don't be worried, boy, when I go. I won't worry over you none. Hey, I found you, didn't I, and you found me.
grandfather		Do you know what this is?
albert		It's my father's. It's his regimental pennant. How did you come by this, sir?
grandfather		You may have this.
albert		Thank you ever so much for this, sir...
grandfather		 ... And this.
albert		What was her name? GRANDFATHER Emilie.  Her name is Emilie.
****Dialogues from script :War_for_the_Planet_of_the_Apes.txt****

final shooting script		NOVEMBER 30, 2015
soldier		Captain...!
captain		Echo two-six to command. Colonel, we have eyes on three Kong in the north woods. A couple of our donkeys think there are others here too... Maybe this is it, maybe the base is near.  Yes sir... Yes sir, copy. Over.
preacher		Reload!
agonized voice		RETREAT!!!
preacher		Colonel - Colonel, do you copy?!
preacher		Preacher -- it's Preacher, sir -- !
preacher		I don't know -- !
preacher		I can't see anything! We lost a lot of men, sir -- the captain is dead!
preacher		Command, sir? I think it's just me by myself now!
preacher		Sir, I don't think I'm gonna make it...! I'm sorry -- I'm so sorry!
preacher		 ...it's... Alpha Omega.
lang		Means we're the beginning and end. Humanity's survival depends on us.
maurice		 [Twenty-two dead. Many more injured.]
preacher		You're him... You're Caesar.
travis		Just kill us already...
lang		Shut up, man --
travis		What? They're animals, he's gonna slaughter us --
caesar		I... did not start this war.
travis		 And we got ten more just like him.
caesar		I know these apes. They followed Koba...  They tried to kill me. They fear what I will do to them. They believe I cannot forgive. So now they serve you... just to survive.
red		I no fear you! You must fear! How long you think woods can protect you? Humans destroy you. Their Kerna has all power. Humans follow all he say. To them, he more than just human. He everything.
caesar		[Get him out of here.]
luca		[What should we do with them?]
preacher		You're letting us live...?
caesar		Tell your Colonel... you have seen me now. And I have a message for him: this fighting can stop. Leave us the woods. And no more humans will die.
maurice		[Do you really think they'll give him the message?]
caesar		They are the message. I showed them mercy. He will see we are not savages.  Let's hope this works. They are getting closer...
winter		[Red attacked me!   He got away!]
caesar		Why didn't I see, Maurice?
maurice		[See what?]
caesar		That Koba could not forgive what humans did to him when he was their prisoner. That he would seek revenge. I should have known.
maurice		[No one could have known how much darkness was living inside of him.]
blue eyes		[Hello, Father...]
caesar		Welcome home, Rocket.  You look tired.
rocket		[It was a long journey --]
blue eyes		 [Father, we found something!]
caesar		Come inside!
blue eyes		[Mother...!]
cornelia		[Cornelius, don't you recognize your brother?]
blue eyes		 [This is it, Father. We can start over. A new home.]
cornelia		[What is beyond those mountains, son?]
blue eyes		[A desert, Rocket and I had to cross it too. The journey is long, but that is why humans will not find us.]
winter		[We must leave tonight!]
lake		[Tonight?    That's impossible!]
winter		[How much longer can we wait?      Soldiers are getting closer!]
blue eyes		 [Winter...]
winter		[Your son's been gone, he doesn't know how hard it's been!]
blue eyes		[I know you are scared, we all are, but we are still planning...]
caesar		Yes... We must still find a way to get out of the woods safely.
maurice		 [The woods are filled with soldiers.]
blue eyes		Father... We must try.
caesar		I know, son.  More apes die everyday. And we cannot hide here much longer.
blue eyes		[Can't sleep?]
caesar		[I am so proud of you.]  [I love you, son.]
luca		[Sorry, Caesar.]
caesar		[How many others on patrol?]
luca		[Five?   Six--?]
caesar		[Get them!     Rocket too!]
female soldier		Lima-two to command. Colonel, intel's good. I'm in the target area. Are you close?
soldier		Lima-four to command.   Colonel, did you get him--?
caesar		Rocket!   What happened?!
rocket		[I heard him talking!   The Colonel is here!]
the colonel		Get me out! Now!!
spear		[Luca! We can't find Winter.   He wasn't at his post.]
maurice		[He was scared. Could he have turned against us?]
luca		[Caesar... I think Winter betrayed us. I'm sorry. He was in my command.]
caesar		My youngest son...   Have you found him yet?
luca		[We're still looking.]
maurice		[Let's help them search.]
caesar		Cornelius... you're safe now, son.
caesar		You loved my son.    Look after his brother until I return.
lake		 [You're not coming with us?]
caesar		No.
maurice		[Caesar!    You're not going after them?!]
caesar		Not them... Him.
maurice		[Caesar, you are our leader!   We can't leave without you!]
caesar		You must.    The soldiers will be back soon.
cornelius		[Father!]
caesar		 When I find him, the soldiers will all come after me. That may give you the best chance to get out of the woods. Until then, be safe.
luca		[The soldiers' camp is always moving. My guards think they know where it is. Let me take you.]
rocket		[You'll need me to back you up.]
caesar		No.
rocket		[Please... I know what it's like... to lose a son.]
caesar		I might not make it back.
maurice		[That's why I'm coming.   To make sure you do.]
luca		[This is where the guards thought they might be. There are always fires burning.]
man		I'm just gonna... put this down --
luca		[Is he out here alone?]
rocket		[Maybe he's a deserter?]
caesar		Look around. Take what we can use.
maurice		[Something wrong with her.   I don't think she can speak.]
caesar		Come.
maurice		[She'll die out here alone.]
caesar		We cannot take her.
maurice		[I understand...]  [But I cannot leave her.]
maurice		[Must be where they bury the dead.]
caesar		Looks like some were killed here.
luca		[They burned their things too.]
maurice		[Why would they kill their own men?]
luca		[Did you find the Colonel...?]
caesar		Winter...
boyle		Donkey.   Over here.
red		Ok -- Ok... He come...
boyle		Hey!   Hey!     You stupid-- !
boyle		Shut up, Preacher -- what're you, a donkey lover now? I think you going soft coz that kong let you go.
caesar		Where is the Colonel?
winter		[He's gone.]
caesar		 ...Gone?
winter		[This morning. He took many soldiers with him.]
caesar		What border? Why?
winter		[I don't know. But more of us are leaving to join them in the morning. Red thinks they'll all be coming back here... to help the Colonel finish off the apes for good.]
caesar		My son... my wife... are dead.
rocket		[Winter had it coming!]
luca		[Caesar had no choice!]
maurice		[So what do we do now?]
rocket		[Wait for the soldiers to leave.   Follow them to the Colonel.]
caesar		...Koba?
koba		Ape... not kill ape...
maurice		[The soldiers are going!]
caesar		[Is that them up ahead?]
rocket		 [Looks like they stopped!]
caesar		[Don't let them see us!]
rocket		 [What are they shooting at?!]
caesar		I don't know...
rocket		[They're gone...]
caesar		 What is that...?
maurice		 [He can not speak either...?]
caesar		Help me get him up...
maurice		[What is wrong with them...?]
maurice		[Where could they have gone?!]
caesar		Winter said they were heading to a border...!
luca		[Yes, but which way is that?!]
scrawny chimp		 Bad... ape... Bad ape...
rocket		[Who are you?]
luca		[Where are you from?]
rocket		 [I don't recognize him.   He's not one of us.]
caesar		Are you... alone here?
bad ape		Cold...?
bad ape		I see girl. Think... you human.   But you... apes. Like me!
caesar		 You... live here?
bad ape		 Long time. Long, long time.
caesar		Are there more like you?   More apes? From zoo?
bad ape		 Dead. All dead. Long time.
caesar		You learn to speak...?
bad ape		 Listen to human...
maurice		[Amazing... Always thought we were the only ones. Wonder if there are others out there somewhere? Others like us.]
bad ape		Here! Eat, eat!  New friends. Special day.
caesar		Where did you get this?
bad ape		Bad place. Very bad. I find. Long time ago. After zoo. Looking for food. Find human zoo. Zoo for sick.
caesar		Bad humans...? Soldiers?
bad ape		Soldiers.
rocket		[An old, deserted military camp on the border...?]
luca		[Maybe this is where the Colonel and the troops from the north are going to meet?]
caesar		Is it far?     Can you take us?
bad ape		 Human zoo?! No... No go back there. Everyone dead. I come here. Safe here. Never go back!
caesar		Please.     You must take us.
bad ape		No!     Can not take!   Can not take!
caesar		 I don't know.
bad ape		 But she... with you?
caesar		She has no one else.
bad ape		I see you look at her. Just now.  Look sad.
caesar		I had two.     But one was killed.   By human.
bad ape		 Oh... Soldier?
caesar		I don't know... Maybe.
bad ape		Then... maybe I take you.
maurice		[Thirsty.]  [Thirsty.]
bad ape		There...
caesar		[Luca, let's take a closer look.]  [Stay here. Keep them safe.]
luca		[What are they doing?]
caesar		 I don't know...
luca		 [What's that? A patrol?]
rocket		[I saw them from up there... Coming for you...]
luca		[At least this time... I was able to protect you...]
maurice		[I know how much you have lost... But now we have lost another.]
rocket		[Luca gave his life!   We can not turn back -- !]
maurice		[Caesar...]
caesar		They must pay...
maurice		[Now you sound like Koba.]
caesar		...Koba? You know nothing.   My wife and son were killed.  You call me Koba...?!
caesar		What happened?
spear		[They came out of nowhere, attacked us... We were sure they would kill us all -- but the Colonel stopped them!]
caesar		Use you...?
spear		[They've been forcing us to work!]
caesar		What... kind of work...?
caesar		 I came for you.
the colonel		I see... I kill somebody close to you that night...?
caesar		My... family.
the colonel		I'm sorry.     I was there to kill you.
caesar		I was told you were coming... That others would be joining you here.
the colonel		 Joining me...?
caesar		To finish us off... for good.
the colonel		 Who told you that?
red		Ok -- ok, Kerna...!
tower guard		Evening, Colonel!
the colonel		 Any more trouble tonight?
tower guard		 No, sir -- not anymore --
the colonel		You could use a haircut there, son.  You too, soldier.
lake		[Forgive them. We've been through much.]
caesar		I will find some way to get us out of here. I promise...
lake		 [You don't know what this place is like.]
cornelius		[Father...!]
soldiers		MAKES THE GRASS GROW!!
executive officer		We...!
soldiers		MAKE THE BLOOD FLOW!!
executive officer		We are the beginning...!
soldiers		AND THE END!!
lake		[We haven't had food or water since we got here...]
caesar		[Why do they need a wall...?]
caesar		LEAVE HIM!!!
the colonel		...Ok.   Back to work.
caesar		Apes need food. Water.
the colonel		Please.    Tell them to work.
caesar		 Give them food and wat--
the colonel		 Tell them.
bad ape		 Bad place...
rocket		[Must save them! But how?]
maurice		[Must think! What would Caesar do?]
bad ape		Oh no!
preacher		Alright -- that's good.
caesar		What did the Colonel promise you? You really think he will let you live... after we are gone?
red		Koba right. You think you know better... than rest of apes. But look you now.  You nothing.
the colonel		Interfere with the work again, and I'll begin slaughtering the apes, one by one. Understand? I need that wall.
caesar		Apes... need food... water.
the colonel		 They'll get food and water when they finish the work.
caesar		Give them food and water... or they will not be able to finish.
the colonel		You know you're very emotional.  What makes you think you're in a position to make demands?
preacher		C'mon --
caesar		The soldiers who are coming here... are not coming to join you, are they?
the colonel		I was told you were smart, but... that's impressive.
caesar		They are against you?
the colonel		They... fear me.
caesar		Why...?
the colonel		Jesus Christ... you are impressive. 
caesar		I think... you have no mercy.
the colonel		You came here to kill me.   Were you going to show me mercy?
caesar		I showed you mercy... when I spared your men. I offered you peace. And you killed my family.
the colonel		 Mercy. Do you have any idea what your mercy would do to us?
caesar		 You killed them too...?
the colonel		What did I do, Preacher?
preacher		 You severed their heads, sir.
the colonel		Except for the one I spared, so he could return to deliver a message: if they wanted to relieve me of my command, they'd have to meet me here, and do it themselves.
caesar		How many... will be coming?
the colonel		Probably all of them. Don't get any ideas -- only thing they fear more than me is you apes. They never questioned my methods when it came to you.
preacher		HEY -- HEY-HEY-HEY!!!
the colonel		So emotional!
preacher		...sir --
the colonel		What do you think my men would've done to your apes... if you had killed me?
preacher		Didn't I tell you not to agitate him? That was not smart, man...
caesar		If this battle is coming... you should leave, while you still can.
preacher		Leave?     What are you talking about?
caesar		You are not like him.
preacher		He was right, you do think he's sick, don't you? You're just like them. He's not crazy. The world's gone crazy. And he's the only one with the vision to get us through this. The Colonel's a great man. He sacrificed everything for us. You can't judge him. Who are you to judge him?  I was trying to give you a heads up, keep you out of his way, I don't even know why. But if you think you and I have some kind of relationship -- that you're gonna give me, what, advice? You can disavow yourself of that notion right fucking now.
maurice		 [How is he?]
lake		[You look weary.]
caesar		[Do not lose hope... Some way, somehow, we will finish the journey to our new home. I will find a way to get us out of here.]
preacher		Get off!
maurice		[How will we get in?   Humans everywhere.]
rocket		 [Must get in somehow...]
bad ape		"In"...?   "In"?
lake		[You saved our lives...]
maurice		 [Sick humans must have tried to escape underground!]
bad ape		No no no -- no climb -- !
rocket		[Must be under the camp by now!]
maurice		[Wonder how close we are... to where soldiers keep apes?]
bad ape		 No!
caesar		Koba...
koba		 Sleep...
caesar		No...
the colonel		If he's still alive in the morning, he goes back to work or you shoot him.  Keep him separate from the others.
bad ape		IN!     She go IN!
the girl		[Thirsty...?]
ape		[Apes together strong.]
maurice		[If humans see her, they will kill her...]
the colonel		How many are out there?   Are there others?
rocket		[Feeling better?]
the colonel		For two years we've fought relentlessly against these beasts, and when we are done with them, we will bring an end to their kind. But now we find ourselves on the eve of battle... against our own kind. So you may ask: who is the real enemy, who are we fighting here? And I'll tell you. It's not the apes. It's not the men who are on their way here right now to altercate with us. The battle we've been waging all this time is against ourselves.
the colonel		Send him up to the quarry.    Alone.
preacher		I really don't know, sir...
the colonel		Get him to work.
tanker guard		That's high enough, kong!
caesar		[37 steps to the adult cage...   55 to the children.]
red		You know Kerna shoot apes tomorrow... when wall is done.
caesar		His wall is madness. It won't save him... any more than it will save you.
red		I save myself.
caesar		Is there anything left... of you to save?
maurice		[You are very brave.]
the girl		[...Brave?]
maurice		[You are...]
bad ape		Come!   Come see!
rocket		[This is the ape I told you about.]
bad ape		...Bad Ape.  Bad Ape... Bad Ape...
rocket		[What's wrong?]
rocket		[There's a problem.]
rocket		[We can't dig any further, it will flood the whole tunnel!]
lake		[If we don't dig further, we'll never get to the children! How are we going to get them out?]
caesar		[We must leave tonight!]
rocket		[How...?]
boyle		Hey -- you animals!
boyle		Who did that?!
the colonel		Least you can take comfort... Your struggle ends... Ours goes on... Nature still has the power to wipe us off this planet at any moment... Killed the dinosaurs with a single meteor.
caesar		...Malcolm?
the colonel		I think that was his name, yes.
caesar		He... was a friend.
the colonel		He said you were remarkable.   More than just an animal... 
caesar		What... happened to this man?
the colonel		I shot him.
rocket		[...What was that?]
rocket		[Do you think he knows we're up to something?]
caesar		 [Wait till he turns out his lights.]
rocket		[The sun will be up soon...]
caesar		[We go now. Or die trying.]
caesar		 I love you, son...
bad ape		It's ok, little ones... come, come.
bad ape		Go!   Go go go...!
rocket		[Hurry!   Let's go!]
caesar		By the time the sun rises, you'll all be on your way... to a new home.  Hurry, you must go.
rocket		[Without you? No...]
caesar		Maurice was right. I am like Koba. He could not escape his hate...  And I still cannot escape mine. He took too much from me.
soldier		Holy shit -- they're here!!!
preacher		Jesus Christ...
bad ape		Hurry!   Go go go!
rocket		[Let me through!]
gunner		 LOOK!!! THE APES!!!
gunner		Kill them, man!!!   Kill them all!!!
caesar		Don't worry... You are all home now. Apes are strong. With... or without me.
maurice		 Son will know... who was father... and what Caesar... did... for us.
****Dialogues from script :War_of_the_Worlds.txt****

screenplay by		 Josh Friedman & David Koepp
submitted by		 Tyler
narrator		 No one would have believed in the early years of the21st century, that our world was being watched by intelligences greater than our own. That as men busied themselves about their various concerns, they observed and studied. Like the way a man with a microscope might scrutinize the creatures that swarm and multiply in a drop of water. With infinite complacency men went to and fro about the globe, confident of our empire over this world. Yet, across the gulf of space, intellects, vast and cool and unsympathetic regarded our plant with envious eyes. And slowly and surely, drew their plans against us.
sal		 Ray!! Ferrier! Whoa!
sal		 I need you back at 4:00 instead of 12:00 I got half of Korea coming in.
ray		 No, no, no I can't. I'm on a 12 hour blow! Call Tadesko.
sal		 Tadesko can't move 40 containers in an hour. I need somebody who can do double picks.
ray		 I wish I could help you Sal. God damn union regulations.
sal		  Come on, I'm in a position here!
ray		 Come on, you remember the union regulations, Sal.
sal		  You know what your problem is?
ray		  I can think of a couple of women who'd be happy to tell you.
ray		 Is it 8:30? We say that?
ray		  Hey, this is one safe looking vehicle you got yourself here Tim. Congratulations.
tim		 Thank You.
ray		 8 o'clock huh?
mary ann		 Um-Huh. We'll be back by 9:30 on Sunday, depending on the traffic.
ray		 There he is! You got a hug?
ray		 : Still working on those manners?
rachel		 Hello dad.
ray		 Hello, Rachel!
robbie		  The door's locked.
mary ann		  I'll just get it in the door.
rachel		 It's got rollers, just roll it.
mary ann		 Well we can't roll it up the stairs now can we?
ray		 Really, I got it from here, okay?
ray		  It's a 302 V8. It's gonna be out of here next week.
ray		  You better get going if you want to beat the traffic, don't you think?
mary ann		 You're out of milk.  And everything else.
ray		  Would you close the door please? Now that that's my refrigerator.
tim		 I'm gonna go wait outside.  see you in a few days.
rachel		 Bye Tim.
mary ann		 I'd better get this upstairs.
rachel		  Mom, Mom!
ray		 Mary Ann, let me get this.
mary ann		 I can get it.
ray		  Excuse me.
mary ann		 A little old to still be sharing aren't they?
ray		 I don't hear any complaints.
mary ann		 No, I do.
mary ann		 Robbie's got a paper...  ...on the French occupation of Algeria due Monday which he's yet to begin. It would be nice if he were done by the time we got back so we don't have to keep him up all night on Sunday.
robbie		 I just got to type it up. 
mary ann		 No, you just got to start writing it first.
robbie		  I love you mom!
mary ann		 I love you.  Listen to your father.
mary ann		 Oh, no shoes on the bed.
mary ann		 We'll be at my parent's house in Boston but don't call the house line, because you know. Well the point is I've got my cell phone. So if anything comes up, or if you have any questions just call.
ray		 Believe it or not, I can handle it.
mary ann		 I'll leave the phone on.
ray		 Mary Ann?  It's a good look for you.
mary ann		 You think?
ray		 Yeah.
mary ann		 Take care of our kids.
ray		 Mary Ann, you got nothing to worry about. Listen, you tell your mother that Ray sends his love and kisses.
mary ann		  She'll love that.
robbie		 Baseball season's over.
ray		 Five minutes. It's not going to kill you.
ray		 There he is.  That's how it's gonna be?
ray		 Careful with that throw.
robbie		 Whatever Ray!
ray		 Your mom says you've got a report due on Monday, so you are going to work on that when you're done here.
robbie		 Yeah, I'm almost finished, I just got to type it up.
ray		 Yeah, bullshit!
robbie		 Yeah, and what do you know Ray?
ray		 Everything. Haven't you heard? Between me and my brother, we know everything.
rachel		 What's the capital of Australia?
ray		 That's one my brother knows.
robbie		 Is it okay with you if I just laugh the first 500 times you tell that one.
ray		 Just do your report. We don't send you to school so you can flunk out.
robbie		 You don't pay for it, Tim does.
ray		 That's half of what I've got.
robbie		 You're an asshole. I hate coming here.
ray		 That why you act like such a dick?
ray		 What?
rachel		 That's not how you're going to get through to him. You want him to listen to you...
ray		  What are you? Your mother or mine?
rachel		 Where are you going?
ray		 To sleep. I work for a living.
rachel		 What are we supposed to eat?
ray		 You know, order.
ray		 What's the matter?
rachel		 I got a splinter.
ray		 Where'd you get it. Come here.
rachel		 On your porch railing.
ray		 What, you want me to...  You want me to take that out for you?
rachel		 Absolutely not!
ray		 Well, come here let me see it.
ray		 It's gonna get infected.
rachel		 No it wont.
ray		 Yes, it's gonna get infected.
rachel		 No, it won't. When it's ready, my body will just push it out.
ray		 Push it out?
rachel		 I read that.  You should get TiVo. Tim got it for my room. It's awesome. I can watch all my shows after homework.
ray		 Yeah, I'll just put that on my platinum card. Robbie?  Robbie?
ray		  What is that?
rachel		 Hummus.
ray		 Hummus?
rachel		 From the health food place. I kept one of their menus last time we were here.
rachel		 Uh, you said order!
ray		  I meant order food! Where is Robbie?
rachel		 He went out.
ray		 Out where?
rachel		 I don't know. He just took your car and left.
friend 1		 You ever see something like that?
ray		  In the springtime maybe. Not this time of year. Come on, we can see better from the back yard.
ray		 That is so weird.
friend 2		 What?
ray		 The wind is blowing toward the storm.
friend 2		 That is weird.
ray		 Rachel, wanna see something cool?
ray		 It's okay.
rachel		 I want to go inside.
ray		 It's okay.
rachel		 I want to go inside.
ray		 Okay, you go ahead.
friend 2		 That's enough weather for me. 
rachel		 I don't want to go by myself.
ray		 Kind of fun, ain't it?
rachel		 No.
ray		 Oh, Come on. It's like the fourth of July.
rachel		 No it's not.
ray		 It's okay. You're fine.
rachel		 It hit right behind our house.
ray		 Yeah, well it's not gonna hit there again because lighting doesn't strike twice in the same place.
ray		 Oh, SHIT!
rachel		 Where's Robbie?
ray		 I don't know.
rachel		 Is Robbie okay?  Are you okay?
ray		 Where's the thunder?
rachel		 Why won't it stop?
rachel		  Is it over?
rachel		 Where are you going?
ray		 Just checking things out. Just wait, wait there.
rachel		 Are we going to be okay?
ray		 I don't know.
rachel		 You don't know.
ray		 No. I meant... Rachel, please, just stop asking so many questions. Just wait here.
friend 2		 You believe this Ray? Every single car.
ray		  Oh, Jesus. Oh, Jesus.
robbie		 The car just stopped and...
ray		  You're okay? Are you okay?
robbie		 ... and the lighting started hitting about a block away over and over again. And me and this other guy we...
ray		  Where the hell'd you go?
robbie		 Over on Lincoln Avenue.  ... by the church.
ray		 Did you see it? Did you... Were you near it?
robbie		 Yeah. 26 times we counted! Over and over the lighting started hitting. It opened up this hole or something...
ray		 26 times?
robbie		 Yeah.
ray		 Okay, well, you're okay?
robbie		 Yeah.
ray		 Good, because your sister is in the house, I want you to go in that house and I want you to stay with her. Okay?  And the next time you take my car with no driver's license and no permission, I call the cops. You better be there when I get back.
ray		 Robbie. 
ray		 Manny! Manny! Hey Manny. What is it, dead?
manny		 All of them, everything, look at this...  starter's fried.
ray		 Lightning hit it?
manny		 Not even close. I thought if I changed it... you got any idea what's going on?
ray		 I'm on my way to find out. Try umm... try changing the solenoids.
manny		 Right,  Right see, I told you that, the solenoids.
cop 1		 Let us through. Let us through here.
friend 3		 Hey, what up, Ray?
ray		  I should of known you two were behind this.
friend 3		 Hey, god's pissed off at the Neibor hood
ray		 Can you blame him?
friend 4		 You see it?
ray		 Yep, you got power where you are?
friend 3		 Nope, nothing.
ray		 It's the cars though. That's the thing.
friend 4		 Solar Flare, that's what this guy told me.
ray		 A solar flare?
friend 4		 Yeah, the sun shoots off blobs of plasma, they turn into solar flare flashes. It's the only thing that can kill all of the electronic stuff.
friend 3		 Can I say something?
friend 4		 What bro?
friend 3		 The sun does not cause lightning, okay?
friend 4		 Bro, I'm just telling you what that guy said he heard.
friend 3		 I know but it just sounds dumb saying that...
cop 1		 I never seen anything like this before. That many strikes of lighting in one spot.
ray		 Is this the only place?
friend 4		 Is it hot?
ray		 No. It's freezing.
cop 2		 What is that?
ray		 You feel that?
friend 3		 Yeah, I feel that.
friend 4		 What is it the subway?
cop 1		 There's no subway here.
friend 4		 PATH Train maybe?
cop 1		 That can't be the water main.
cop 2		 There's nothing else down there.
cop 1		 The water main doesn't run through here.
cop 2		 Well, there's something down there and it's moving.
friend 4		 Oh my god.
friend 4		 Ray, no, stay man.
robbie		 What happened?
rachel		 What's going on?
rachel		 Dad, what's the matter?
robbie		 What's all that stuff all over you?
rachel		 What's all the stuff?
robbie		 Hello? Ray?
ray		 We're leaving this house in 60 seconds.
robbie		  What? Wait. I have no idea what's going on...
ray		  ... all the food from the refrigerator and the cupboard, put it in here.
robbie		 I think we are having a bit of a shock here...what's going on, just tell me...
ray		 Just do it.
ray		 Rachel, sweetheart...
rachel		 Dad, you're really scaring me.
ray		 I need you to get your suitcase...
rachel		 Dad.  Dad!
ray		 The one that you brought, bring it to me, okay?
ray		 Can you do that for me, darling?
robbie		 What's happening?
ray		 Shh, Shh, I can't tell you now. We... We've only got about another minute.
ray		 Please, Please, Please.
ray		 Just keep it down.
robbie		 Ray, I'm standing right beside you. Can you please answer me?
ray		 Just get in the front seat Robbie.
rachel		 Who's car is this?
ray		 Just get in.
rachel		 Who's car is this?
manny		 Hey, Hey, Ray! You were absolutely right. I had to change the sole... Ray?
manny		 Hey Ray? Ray? What?
manny		 Ray. Open up.
manny		 Open the door, come on! OPEN THE DOOR RAY!
manny		 What are you...
ray		  Get in.
manny		 That's funny, you gotta get out of the car. You can't take it.
manny		 It's not my car. It's not your car. Where you going? Daddy's acting crazy kids. Guy's gonna come back...
ray		  I don't have time to expl....
manny		  You're busting my chops. I got a shop to run. You know how many people...
ray		  Get in!
manny		 No, RAY GET OUT OF THE...
ray		 GET IN MANNY OR YOU'RE GONNA DIE!
rachel		 What do you mean?
manny		 All right, get out of the truck! I'm not kidding now. GET OUT OF THE CAR RAY!
manny		 I'm not fooling around, I got a busy day ahead of me...
ray		  Close the door! CLOSE IT!
manny		 RAY! BRING THE CAR BACK RAY! IT'S NOT MY CAR!
ray		 GET DOWN! GET DOWN! GET DOWN!
rachel		 Is this the terrorists?!?!
ray		 JUST GET DOWN. GET DOWN!
ray		 GET DOWN!
robbie		 HOLY SHIT!
robbie		 Where are we going?!?!?!
ray		 We gotta go! We got to be the only working car around here. I'm not stopping until we are clear.
robbie		 CLEAR OF WHAT?!?!
ray		 We gotta go.
robbie		 WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON!?!?!?
ray		 YOU SAW! WE'RE UNDER ATTACK!!
robbie		 BY WHO? WHO IS ATTACKING US?!?!
ray		 Rachel... Rachel you've got to keep it down Rachel!
ray		 Rachel! SHUT UP RACHEL! I CAN'T THINK!
robbie		  YOU ARE FREAKING HER OUT!!
ray		 WELL, LOOK, I'M DRIVING, DO SOMETHING!!!
robbie		 Okay,  Put em' up Rache.
robbie		 Make the arms.  This space right here, this is yours.
robbie		 ... This belongs to you, right?
rachel		  Yes...
robbie		  You're safe in your space.
rachel		  I'm safe in my space.
robbie		  You're safe in your space. Nothing is going to happen to you in your space.
rachel		 I'm really scared.
robbie		 I'm gonna go to the front seat to talk to dad...
rachel		 No....
robbie		  I will be two feet away. Okay.
robbie		 Will you hold my hand?
rachel		 Yes.
robbie		 Are you gonna be okay?
rachel		  Yes.
robbie		  I want to know everything you know.
ray		 This thing, this machine, it crawled out of the ground and started torching everything, just killing everybody.
robbie		 What is it?  Is it terrorists?
ray		 No, this came from some place else.
robbie		 You mean like Europe?
ray		 NO ROBBIE!! NOT LIKE EUROPE!!!
ray		 That machine, it was already buried.
ray		 Maybe it came down in the lightning storm.
robbie		 Wait a minute... you just said it was buried.
ray		 No, the machine I'm talking about was buried. But, what came down in the lighting storm, what operates it. That's the... that's the.... You know. The....
rachel		 The what?
robbie		 Why aren't there any helicopters or airplanes?
ray		 Hey Rache. How you doing there girl?  How she doing?
robbie		 How you doing?
rachel		 I'm fine.
robbie		  She's good.
ray		 Good.  Hey, what was that thing you did with her?
robbie		 Works sometimes. She gets claustrophobic.
ray		 Hey Rachel
rachel		 I want mom.
ray		 I know. You feel better?
rachel		 I want mom.
ray		 Yeah, tell me about it, you know?
rachel		 Take me to Mom's!
ray		 Listen, I just need you to hold it together for me, okay?
rachel		 I WANT MOM!!!
ray		 When you start screaming like that, you know, I can't really...
rachel		 TAKE ME TO MOM!!!
ray		 I know...
rachel		 TAKE ME TO MOM'S!!!
ray		 That's where we're going right now.
rachel		 TAKE ME TO MOM'S!!!
ray		 I KNOW!!
rachel		 Come on, hurry up Dad...
rachel		 Robbie, get the door.... 
rachel		  MOM! TIM!!
robbie		  MOM!! TIM!!
robbie		 They're gone.
rachel		 Is she dead??
ray		 She's not dead. All right? She's just no here. Okay? They're never here.
robbie		 How do you know?
ray		 Because they are on their way to Boston....
ray		 ... and so they just kept on going, they're probably up to your grandma's house by now.
robbie		  I'm gonna call her.
rachel		 How come the lights are on here and not at your place?
ray		 Umm.... Because nothing bad happened here. Okay?
ray		 So, were safe here. All Right?
ray		 Okay, Rachel? This is your area. Okay, you are safe in your area...
rachel		 Dad. That's not how it goes.
ray		 Okay, well, you hungry, huh? I'll get you some food. I'm gonna feed you. Get something to eat.   What do we have here??
robbie		 .. Busy signals, one of the fast ones.... You think all the circuits are down?
ray		  Ketchup, Mustard, Ahh, Tabasco, Barbeque Sauce. This is really good Robbie. Vinaigrette. I said pack food. What... What the hell is this?
robbie		 That's all that was in your kitchen.
ray		 Okay. No, it's all right, it's all right.
ray		 Uh, food... Uh, bread...  okay, we're gonna have... umm.... We'll just get some sandwiches.
ray		 You ever see me deal? Wanna see me deal? Okay, there's two for you, two for Robbie, two for me, 
ray		 Maybe after we get done eating, I will take you down, teach you how to play some poker. A little five card stud... a little blackjack...
rachel		 I'm allergic to peanut butter.
ray		  Since when?
rachel		  Birth!
ray		 Okay, well, umm, here  You can eat the bread. Okay?
rachel		 I'm not hungry.
ray		 Okay, well. Robbie and I are going to be eating peanut butter sandwiches.  You want jelly on this sandwich?
robbie		 I'm not hungry either.
ray		 You're not hungry either? Well, that's fine.
ray		 Everybody just relax, okay? Because we are here now and we're safe, and we're gonna stay.  And in the morning your mom and Tim are going to be here and everything's gonna be fine. Okay?  Okay.
rachel		 If everything's fine, why do we have to sleep in the basement. We've got perfectly good beds.
ray		 It's like a slumber party.
robbie		 What are you afraid is gonna happen to us?
ray		  Nice basement.
rachel		 I want to sleep in my bed. I've got back problems.
ray		 Okay. You know on the Weather Channel when there's a tornado, and they tell you to go to the basement for safety? It's like that.
rachel		 There's gonna be tornadoes?
ray		 Rachel, no more talking.
rachel		 Could you be a little nicer to me. God!
robbie		 Wanna stay here?
rachel		 Yeah. Good night, love you.
robbie		 Love you, Rache.
rachel		 Is the lighting back?
ray		 No, this is something else...
robbie		  AHHHH... WHAT'S THAT SOUND?
ray		 I NEVER HEARD THAT BEFORE!!!
rachel		 IS IT THEM!!! IS IT THEM!!!
ray		 WE GOTTA GO!! WHERE DO WE GO??? ROBBIE, THIS IS YOUR HOUSE, WHERE DO WE GO??
ray		 WAIT!! WAIT!! WAIT!! WAIT!!
rachel		 Are we still alive?
ray		 Down here!
ray		 Were you on this plane? Are you a passenger?
ray		 Are you a passenger?
news reporter		 He's deaf. The shell went off right beside him. The camera on his shoulder saved his life.  You hear that Max? Your stupid camera saved your stupid life.
ray		 Where were you?
news reporter		 Out there in the pine barrens. We were attached to a National Guard unit, the 83rd Mechanized. They moved to one of those things around midnight. They've got some kind of shield around them. We can't see it, but everything we fire at them detonates too early before we can get close enough to cause any damage. When they flash that thing, everything lights up like Hiroshima.
ray		 There's more than one?
reporter		 You gotta be kidding me right?
reporter		 We were feeding New York but New York went dark. So we patched over to D.C., they went down, L.A., Chicago, uplink to London. Even called the affiliates to try and get them to catch the feed, but nobody answered.
reporter		 It's the same everywhere. Once the tripods start to move, no more news comes out of that area.
ray		 Oh, my god!
reporter		 You ain't seen nothing yet.
ray		 I saw that storm. I was right in the middle of one of those.
reporter		 No, you didn't see it like this. Those machines come up from under the ground, right? That means they must have been buried there a long time ago. So who's driving the god damn things?  Watch the lightning. Watch it..... Watch the lighting.....
ray		 What is that?
reporter		 That is them. They come down in capsules, riding the lighting into the ground into the machines right?
driver		 You hear that? We're getting the hell out of here.
driver		 Come on! Get in! Get in! Get in!
reporter		 Hey. Were you on that plane?
reporter		 Oh, that's too bad, it would have been a really great story.
ray		 Look at me. Look at me.
ray		 You keep your eyes only on me, you understand?
ray		 Don't look down, don't look around me. I'm taking you to the car and you're gonna want to look around. But you are not going to, are you?
ray		 You're doing good. You're doing good. Keep your eyes on me. We'll go right to Boston, and we're gonna see your mom.
rachel		 I'm not gonna look, dad.
ray		 That's a girl. That's my girl.  Okay, listen, I want you to close your eyes. Got them closed?
rachel		 Um-Huh.
ray		 There you go. Keep em' closed for me.
ray		 Robbie, get in.
ray		 ROBBIE!! GET IN!!!
rachel		 Why are you yelling?
ray		  Get in!
robbie		 Why the hell aren't we on the turnpike?
ray		 Because I don't want everybody to see we've got a working car.  We'll stay along the Hudson until we find an open bridge or ferry, then we're gonna cross the Hudson. Then take the back roads across Connecticut all the way to Boston.
rachel		 Where is everybody?
ray		 I don't know. Running, hiding, hiding in their basements.
robbie		 If we had any balls, we'd go back there and find one of those things and kill it.
ray		 Yeah, well, why don't you just let me make the big decisions, okay?
robbie		 Which would be when? Never Ray? Never's about your speed.
rachel		 Okay, enough Robbie!
ray		  Okay! Enough with the Ray shit!! It's dad, sir, or if you want Mr. Ferrier. That sounds a little weird to me but you decide.
rachel		 Dad?!?!
ray		 Yes, Rachel.
rachel		 I have to go to the bathroom.
ray		 Really?
robbie		 Come on.  I gotta go!
ray		 Not so fast, not so fast, all right? Now, there are two things we have to watch out for, and the second is people who might want our car.
robbie		 There's nobody around!
rachel		 I gotta go.
ray		 
rachel		 I'M NOT GOING IN FRONT OF YOU GUYS!
ray		 All right, then just go where I can see you!
rachel		 ARE YOU CRAZY?? DON'T LOOK!!
ray		 I'm not gonna look! JUST STAY IN SIGHT!!
rachel		 THAT'S LOOKING!!
ray		 Listen. Every time you don't listen to me, I'm telling your mother, okay? I'm making a list.  I'm making a list!
ray		 I told you to stay where I could see you!
rachel		 I'm sorry!
robbie		 STOP!! DO YOU HAVE ROOM??? STOP!!!
robbie		 WAIT, STOP!!! LET ME ON!!! LET ME ON!!! GIVE ME A HAND!!!
robbie		 WAIT!!! STOP!!! GIVE ME A HAND!!! YOU HAVE ROOM!!!
soldier		 Watch it, kid! YOU'RE GONNA GET YOURSLELF RUN OVER!!!
ray		 WHAT!?!?!  ROBBIE, YOU WANT TO GO IN THAT DIRECTION?
ray		 THERE'S NOTHING LIVING IN THAT DIRECTION, ROBBIE!!!
robbie		 WHAT DO YOU CARE?!?!? YOU NEVER GAVE A SHIT BEFORE!!! YOU NEVER GAVE A SHIT!!!
ray		 OKAY, HARD ASS, WHAT'S YOUR PLAN? YOU'RE IN CHARGE NOW, YOU TELL ME WHAT WE'RE DOING!!
robbie		 WE CATCH UP WITH THESE SOLDIERS, WE PICK UP WHOEVER ELSE ISN'T DEAD AND WE GET BACK AT THEM!!! WE GET BACK AT THEM!! THAT'S WHAT WE DO!!!
ray		 WELL, NOW LET'S TRY ONE THAT DOSEN'T INVOLVE YOUR TEN YEAR OLD SISTER JOINING THE ARMY! YOU HAVE ANYTHING LIKE THAT???
robbie		 WHY DON'T YOU JUST TELL US THE TRUTH???
ray		 YOU HAVE ANYTHING LIKE THAT!
robbie		 YOU HAVE NO IDEA WHICH WAY TO GO!!
ray		 YOU HAVE ANYTHING LIKE THAT?!?!?!
robbie		 YOU WANNA COME OFF ALL WISE AND SHIT!! YOU ONLY CHOSE BOSTON BECAUSE YOU HOPE MOM IS THERE AND IF SHE'S THERE, YOU CAN DUMP US ON HER!!! YOU CAN DUMP US ON HER THEN YOU'LL ONLY HAVE TO CARE ABOUT YOURSELF!!! WITCH IS EXACTLY THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!!!
rachel		 ROBBIE!!! WHERE ARE YOU TRYING TO GO?!?! WHAT ARE YOU TRYING TO DO?!?!
rachel		 WHOE'S GONNA TAKE CARE OF ME IF YOU GO!!!
ray		 If I close my eyes, why don't you drive for a bit.
robbie		 I don't have a license.
ray		 Since when has that stopped you?
robbie		 Ray.  Dad!
robbie		 You think you could.... You think you could...
ray		 Don't stop... don't take your foot off... Okay. I got it... I got it....
rachel		 Where's everybody going?
ray		 I don't know Rach.
rachel		 But we do right?
ray		 Yeah, we do.
rachel		 Why'd he do that?
rachel		 Why is he doing that?
ray		 He wants a ride. Everybody just wants a ride.
rachel		 Can we give him one?
ray		 Just sit back and put on your seatbelt. Robbie, put on your seatbelt.
ray		 Put on your seatbelt Rachel.
robbie		 Be careful.
ray		 I'm sorry, I can't. Please get away from the car.
ray		 HEY!!
rachel		  AHHHH!!
ray		 Oh hold on!!
robbie		 Look out! Look out!
ray		  Oh, GOD!
ray		 Are you okay?
robbie		  AHHHHH!!!! RAY!!!
ray		 ROBBIE?!?! ROBBIE?!?!?
ray		 NO, JUST WAIT!!! WAIT!! STOP!!! JUST STOP!!!
rachel		 DADDY!!!!
ray		 Rachel!!  GET OUT OF THERE!!!
rachel		 DADDY!!!
ray		  AHHH!!!
ray		  Rachel, get out of the car! GET OUT OF THE CAR RACHEL!!!
rachel		 DADDY!!!
ray		  GET OFF THE CAR!! GET OFF!!!
ray		  GET OFF THE CAR!! Move!! Move!!
ray		 Where's my son?!?!
ray		 WHERE'S MY SON?!?! ROBBIE!!    .... ROBBIE!!
ray		  ROBBIE!!!
rachel		 DAD!!!
ray		 My daughter's in the car...
ray		 All I want is my daughter....
ray		 Please, all I want is my daughter.
ray		 I just want my daughter. Please just let me take my daughter, can I.... All I want is my daughter.
ray		 Robbie!!
rachel		 Looks like the power's still on here.
ray		 Yeah, power's still on because nothing bad has come up from under the ground.
woman		 Unless you are O-positive and Rh negative, thank you but we already have more blood than we can use. Again... 
harbor master		 Please move forward calmly, the boat can make more than one trip. Please move forward calmly, take your time, don't rush. 
sheryl		 Ray! RAY?!?!
ray		 Sheryl?
sheryl		 Yeah.
sheryl		 Oh, my gosh, are these your kids?
ray		 Yes, this is Rachel.
sheryl		 Hi, I'm Sheryl, this is my daughter, Nora.
ray		 Hi, I've heard about you, Nora.
ray		 This is my son, Robbie.
robbie		 Hi Sheryl.
sheryl		 He's just like dad.
sheryl		 How you doing? You look like shit.
rachel		  The trees are funny.
harbor master		 We're gonna move some cars out of the way to make more space. Give us a few minutes.
captain		 CAST OFF!!! GET THAT RAMP UP!!!
harbor master		 CAST OFF NOW!!! GET THAT RAMP UP!!!  No more people! No more people! We're taking the ramp up.
ray		  You just stay with me! Grab my jacket!
sheryl		 I got you Ferrier.  oh, Jesus!
ray		 You okay? Come on!
sheryl		 Jesus. Oh my god!
ray		 Come on.
sheryl		 Oh, Ray!! RAY!!!
sheryl		 NO, I CAN GO WITH HIM!!!  RAY!!!! NO!!!!
ray		 SHERYL?!?!? SHERYL!!!!
sheryl		 RAY!!!!
ray		 There's room on the boat!!!
sheryl		 LET US THROUGH GOD DAMN IT!!!
ray		 THERE'S STILL ROOM ON THE BOAT!!! THERE'S ROOM ON THE BOAT!!! THERE'S ROOM ON THE BOAT!!!
rachel		 ROBBIE?!?!
ray		 Stay with me! Stay with me Robbie!!!
ray		 ROBBIE!!!
rachel		  Robbie? Robbie!?!?!
ray		 Robbie!!!
rachel		 ROBBIE!!!
robbie		 Here, grab my hand!! Hold on! I got you! HOLD ON!!!
robbie		 TAKE MY HAND!! TAKE IT!!!
captain		 Oh, my god!
ray		  ROBBIE!!!
ray		 Help me. Help me with her.
robbie		  Okay.
ray		 Don't stop. Don't stop.
robbie		  AHHH.
rachel		 Robbie, slow down.
rachel		 Robbie, slow down!!!
rachel		 Robbie.
ray		 Robbie. We got to stay together Robbie.
ray		 Robbie! Stay together! ROBBIE!!!
ray		 GET BACK HERE!!!
rachel		 Robbie!! NO!! ROBBIE!!! COME BACK!!!
ray		 ROBBIE!!!  ROBBIE!!!
ray		 ROBBIE!!! ROBBIE!!!
ray		 WHY ARE YOU DOING THIS???
ray		 LISTEN TO ME! TURN AROUND! I WANT YOU TO LISTEN TO ME!
ray		 LISTEN TO ME!
ray		 DON'T DO THIS! I LOVE YOU!
robbie		 I NEED TO BE HERE! I NEED TO SEE THIS!!
ray		 I KNOW IT SEEMS LIKE YOU HAVE TO BUT YOU DON'T!!!
robbie		 LET ME GO!!!
ray		 YOU DON'T!!!
robbie		 PLEASE LET ME GO!!!
ray		 I'M NOT LETTING YOU DO THIS!! YOU CAN HATE ME.....
ray		 ... YOU CAN HATE ME. BUT I LOVE YOU!!
robbie		 LET ME GO PLEASE!!!
ray		 I'M NOT LETTING YOU DO THIS!!!
robbie		 DAD!!
ray		 Just listen to me!
robbie		 I need to be here! I want to see this!
ray		 Wait, stay. Stay for Rachel. Stay for your sister.
robbie		 Please let me go! You need to let me go.
ray		 GET OFF!!! I'M HER FATHER!!! I'M HER FATHER!!!
woman		 We thought she was alone... we....
ray		 Robbie?!?!
harland		 Over here! OVER HERE!!!
harland		 Hurry!!
harland		  You all right?
harland		  And what about you?
ray		  There you go. Is that comfortable? I need you to close your eyes now, okay? You need some sleep.
rachel		 Dad?
ray		 He's gonna meet us. Hey, Robbie's gonna meet us, Rach, In Boston, at your grandma's.
rachel		  What do you think mom's doing right this minute?
ray		 Mom? She's in Boston. Waiting. And I know she's not sleeping 'cause she is so worried about you.  ... And she's in grandma's kitchen, and she's making that awful tea that she makes. And they're all just... ... ...there all just counting the minutes until they see you again.
ray		  What is this? What... What is this?
rachel		 I won.
ray		 You won?
rachel		 The walk, trot, and canter. Third place.
rachel		 Sing me "Lullaby and Goodnight"?
ray		  I don't remember that one.
rachel		 Sing me "Hushabye Mountain"?
ray		 I'm sorry Rach, I don't know that one either.
ray		  I'm not bragging, baby. So don't put me down. Because I've got the fastest set of wheels in the town. Something comes up to me that don't even try....
ray		  You don't know what I've got....
harland		 Peach schnapps.
harland		 Disgusting, I know it. I found a whole case of this shit.
ray		 Thank you.
harland		 I'm sorry about your son.
ray		 We got separated... he's gonna meet us in umm... in Boston.
ray		 Did you...  Did you loose anybody?
harland		 All of them.
harland		  Harland Ogilvy.
ray		  Ray Ferrier.
harland		 I got water... Food.... Enough for weeks. You're welcome to stay, both of yous.
ray		 I'm sorry. I'm gonna get some sleep.
harland		  Those machines, those tripods they got... They buried them... right under our feet. Since before there were even people here. They've been planning this for a million years. We're beat to shit.
ray		 Please, my daughter.
harland		 Think about it.    ...    They defeated the greatest power in the world in a couple days. Walked right over us. ....    And these are only the first, they'll keep coming. This is not a war any more than there's a war between men and maggots. This is an extermination.
harland		  Are you afraid?
ray		 Of course I am.
harland		  I been around death plenty. Drive an ambulance in the city. Well, drove and ambulance in the city. That's all over now, huh?    ....   You know the people who make it Ray? The ones that don't flatline before the hospital? It's the ones who keep their eyes open, keep looking at you, keep thinking. ....    There the ones who survive... ....   We can' t loose our heads Ray.   ....   Running, that's what'll kill you.    ......     I'm dead set on livin'.
harland		 Hah. Dead set on Living.
ray		 Thank you for taking us in.
harland		 We're not going to be exterminated.
harland		  It's okay! Come on, I wanna show you something!
harland		 We're gonna fight them Ray. They gotta have a weakness. Come on, take a look.
harland		 Somehow they killed a few of these things in Osaka. That's what I heard. You telling me the Japanese can figure it out but we can't?
harland		 We can do it. We can get 'em. We can figure it out.
ray		 Stay right there!
ray		 I have a daughter! Why did you bring us here?
harland		 To fight 'em together, Ray.   .... Now we'll be the ones coming up from underground. When the time is right, we'll take 'em by supries, the way they took us. We'll take 'em by surprise.
harland		 We're right under their feet, Ray. Right here, under their feet.
harland		 You miss your mommy? I had a little girl nearly your age. You know, if anything happens to your daddy, I'll take care of you.
ray		 Rachel!
ray		  You don't have anything to say to her, do you understand? If you want to talk to somebody, or ask somebody a question, you ask me!
harland		  What exactly is your plan, Ray? I know what I'm gonna do. How about you? You gonna sit here, wait for them to come get you? Is that your plan?
harland		 Maybe you want to get caught. Couple of days hiding in a basement too much for you, I bet. You'll probably turn yourself right in!
ray		 Listen. It stopped.
harland		  Maybe you'll be okay. Maybe you'll get lucky and they'll train you as their pet. You know, train you, feed you, teach you how to do tricks...
ray		  WILL YOU SHUT UP AND LISTEN?!?!?!
ray		  Give me that!
harland		 You and I... I don't  think we are on the same page.
harland		 RAY!!! RAY!!!! RAY!!!! RAY!!!!
ray		 KEEP YOUR VOICE DOWN!!! QUIET!!!
harland		  Not My Blood!!!
ray		 Stop it! Stop it! You gotta stop it! You gotta be quiet or they'll hear you!
harland		  They drink us!
ray		 Please, they'll hear you!
harland		 Then they spray us, like a fertilizer!
ray		 You gotta be quiet!
harland		 Drink US and....
ray		 They're gonna come back down here!
harland		 Then they spit us out all over their goddamn red weeds!
ray		  Do you understand what I'm gonna have to do? I can't let my daughter die because of you.
harland		 This tunnel will get us to the city. We'll have our own tunnels there. Ready Made! Subway, see what I'm saying!
ray		 Stop it!
harland		 You can hide a whole army down there!
ray		 Stop it!!
harland		 ... We'll go underground!
ray		 STOP IT!!!
harland		 Sneak attacks at night!
ray		 YOU STOP IT!!!
harland		 We're the resistance Ray! They can't occupy this country! Occupations always fail! History's taught us that a thousand times. This is our land.
harland		  ... We eat it, we breathe it, only we can live on it! They can't survive here Ray. They weren't built for it.
rachel		 What are you doing?
ray		 Whatever you hear... don't take this off.
rachel		 Dad??
ray		 Rach?
rachel		 Dad?
ray		 What was that song... that lullaby I didn't know?
rachel		 Hushabye Mountains
ray		 Yeah. Please, Rach, sing it.
rachel		  ... A gentle breeze....
ray		 Don't stop.
rachel		 ... On Hushabye Mountain...
ray		 That's my girl.
rachel		 ... For far away my baby goes...
rachel		 ... it fills the sails ...
rachel		 ... of boats that are waiting ...
rachel		 ... Waiting to sail your worries away ...
rachel		 ... So close your eyes. You're on Hushabye Mountain ...
rachel		 ... Wave goodbye to the cares of the day and watch your boat, from Hushabye Mountain, sail far away from Lullaby Bay.
rachel		  AHHHH!!!
ray		 Rachel???
ray		 RACHEL!!!   Oh, my god, no!
ray		 Rachel? Rachel?  Rachel??
ray		  Rachel, make some noise baby. Rachel??
ray		 Rachel? Rachel? Talk to me baby, come on!
ray		 Rachel?!? RACHEL?!?!?!
ray		 RACHEL!!!! RACHEL!!!
ray		  AHH!
rachel		  AHHHHH!!!!
ray		 NO NO NO!!!
ray		 HEY!!!
ray		  AHHH!
ray		 RACHEL!!
ray		  Rachel.
ray		 Rachel.
rachel		 Dad?
soldier 2		 Pull me! Pull me!!!
soldier 2		 We got him! Keep pulling! Pull me!
soldier 2		 EVERYBODY DOWN!!!
rachel		 What happened to it?
ray		 It's dying.
ray		 What happened?
soldier 3		 I don't know, something's happening to them. Please keep moving.
ray		 Something's happening to them?
soldier 4		 Go. Go. Just keep moving, sir.
ray		 Excuse me, excuse me, what happened here? You guys take it down?
soldier 5		 No sir, it was behaving erratically, walking in circles then it went down on it's own about an hour ago.  Now let's keep moving, don't stop do not stop! Keep moving!
rachel		 How is it dead all by it's self?
ray		 Rachel, I'm not sure.
ray		  LOOK AT THE BIRDS!!!
soldier 6		 I CAN'T HEAR YOU!!!
ray		 LOOK AT THE BIRDS!!!
soldier 6		 I CAN'T HEAR YOU!!
ray		  LOOK AT THE GOD DAMN BIRDS!!!
ray		 NO SHIELDS!!!
soldier 6		  I CAN'T HEAR YOU!!!
ray		  NO SHIELDS!!!
soldier 6		  THE JAVELIN'S THE KEY! LOAD THE GUSTAV, IT'S GONNA BE A TOUGH KILL!!! LET'S GO!!!
ray		  It's safer in here!
soldier 6		 LETS GO!!! BRIGN OUT THE JAVELIN!!!
soldier 6		 IT'S CLEAR!
rachel		 MOM!!!
mary ann		  Thank you.
rachel		 Robbie?
robbie		 Hey dad!
narrator		 From the moment the invaders arrived, breathed our air, ate and drank, they were doomed. They were undone, destroyed, after all of man's weapons and devices had failed, by the tiniest creatures that God and his wisdom, put upon this earth. At the toll of a billion deaths, man had earned his immunity, is right to survive among this planet's infinite organisms. And that right is ours against all challenges, for men do not live nor die in vein.
****Dialogues from script :Warm_Springs.txt****

****Dialogues from script :Warrior.txt****

paddy		Tommy?
tommy		I was just passing through. Figured why not have a belt with the old man.
paddy		 Yeah, she's hanging in there.
tommy		Well, you always did take good care of her. Paddy Conlon. Man of priorities.
paddy		She did. But that's not for me anymore, Tommy.
tommy		What? You change brands?
paddy		C'mon, let's go inside.
tommy		I like what you've done with the place.
tommy		There's not much of a woman's touch around here.
tommy		Yeah? Must be hard to find a girl who can take a punch nowadays.
paddy		Here you go.
tommy		Coffee? You haven't seen a guy in 14 years and you're not gonna have a drink with him?
paddy		I told you, I'm off it. I'm coming up on a thousand days.
tommy		C'mon, just one drink.
paddy		No.
tommy		So you found God, huh? That's awesome. Mom kept calling for him, but he wasn't around. I guess Jesus was down at the mill forgiving all the drunks. Who knew?
paddy		I know.
tommy		Oh, you know? What do you know? Do you know it wasn't enough just to drive west to get away from you? When we hit the water we drove north, too.
paddy		When I got sober I hired a man to find you.
tommy		 Is that one of the 12 steps? Or does a guy like you get 24?
tommy		Did your guy tell you what you needed to know?
paddy		Just that your mother died in Tacoma. And you were in the Marines. That was all. That was enough.
tommy		That's too bad. You could've gotten some good details.
paddy		I'm sorry, Tommy.
tommy		It's good to know you're sorry, Pop. Goes a long way.
tess		What's going on here?
brendan		Well, I'm not sure, but I think Daddy is now a princess.
tess		Em, you want to open your presents?
brendan		It's her birthday.
tess		 I know, but that's why you call it a budget. You set it, and you don't budge.
tess		Hey babe, I'm late. Mom's saying goodbye to the girls. She's gotta get on the road. They've been fed. They just need a bath.
brendan		I'm on it.
tess		Can you get them down at a reasonable time tonight? They're exhausted.
brendan		Where's the rest of that skirt?
tess		Babe.
brendan		Listen, if any guys give you a hassle in that joint tonight you give me a call, okay?
tess		 Yeah. Just like you gave me a call when those Temple frat boys decided to smash up your face.
brendan		I told you, most nights I sit on the stool and grade papers, but every now and then I need some action.
tess		Alright, well wait up for me tonight. I'll see what I can do about that.
brendan		Promises, promises.
tommy		Fitzy still own this?
fenroy		Don't know no Fitzy. Colt Boyd owns this gym.
tommy		How's it work here?
fenroy		Thirty five a month with locker. We're open at 7, lights out at 11. You wanna join?
tommy		Sure.
fenroy		Put your name and contact info on the card.
brendan		Whoa whoa whoa! There's a lesson in this too, OK? Listen up. So we have a body at rest, and you have the bat which needs--
tito		Acceleration.
brendan		Acceleration, right. If you have enough acceleration, you have might have a chance to break the body at rest. OK. Go ahead.
nash		Force equals mass times acceleration. We got it.
brendan		Alright. The third law--
stephon		How many laws this dude got?
brendan		 The dude? The dude has three. Newton the dude says that for every action, there's an equal and opposite reaction.
kc		Mr. C, I put it away.
brendan		Alright, before you go, I have your tests from last week.
mad dog		Where do you find these girls?
colt boyd		We got a tournament coming up. You gonna kill every guy in the `Burgh?  Fenroy. Get me some ice. And call that Puerto Rican kid, the one that fights outa the Bottoms. If he's here in 20 minutes, he gets 200 bucks.
tommy		Yo, I'll fight him.
colt boyd		Do me a favor guy, go back to your bag. We don't need anybody else getting hurt. G'head. Take a walk.
mad dog		Yo Rock, what happened? You leave Mick and Paulie at home today?
fenroy		 His phone's disconnected.
colt boyd		Then go through the list. Get me Joe Bones.
tommy		 All I'm saying is if you need somebody to help you, I'm happy to keep your boy warm for you.
colt boyd		You ever fought before?
tommy		Yeah.
colt boyd		 This guy sign a waiver?
fenroy		All good.
colt boyd		What's your name?
tommy		Tommy.
colt boyd		You get tuned up in here, it's on you, Tommy.
tommy		Sure, no problem.
colt boyd		Come on in.
mad dog		Gonna be a hero? Alright.
tommy		You owe me two hundred bucks.
dan taylor		This is the new appraisal figure, and this is how it effects the monthly. As you can see, that puts you upside down on your mortgage. That's the problem. It's the country that did the assessment, not the bank. So, the numbers are what they are, Mr. Conlon.
brendan		Brendan.
dan taylor		The numbers are what they are, Brendan. I mean, you're a Math teacher, you can appreciate that.
brendan		I teach Physics.
dan taylor		Physics. OK. But the bank has got to go by the new appraisal figures. According to these figures, you're upside down on your mortgage--
brendan		You said that three times already. I get that. But I'm asking you if there's something else you can do. Not the bank, you. Can you shift things around, restructure--
dan taylor		Well, you've already refinanced twice.
brendan		Because you advised us to do that.
dan taylor		I presented you with that option. It was your choice.  I'm also showing you netted a substantial payout with the refi.
brendan		We had that conversation. I was paying medical bills. Is that in your file?
dan taylor		Oh, right. Sorry. Your daughter's...kidney?
brendan		Heart.
dan taylor		Heart, right.  Lot of stories.
brendan		So my option is I've got no options? You're not even gonna try to help me?
dan taylor		I am trying, Brendan. Look, I can get you 90 days to get even--
brendan		90 days is not enough. My wife and I have three jobs between us and that doesn't cut it. So, what do you suggest?
dan taylor		Let me ask you a question: have you considered bankruptcy? It's a viable option. There's no shame in it these days.
brendan		That's not how I do things.
dan taylor		Well, then you're looking at foreclosure.
colt boyd		How you doin,' sir? I'm looking for Tommy Riordan.
paddy		Who?
colt boyd		Tommy Riordan? My name's Colt Boyd.
paddy		What business you got with Tommy?
colt boyd		None yet. That's why I'm here. I manage fighters.
paddy		Conlon. Name's Conlon. And anything you want to know about Tommy, you gotta ask him yourself.
colt boyd		I'm just looking for some general information here.
paddy		Like I said, anything you want to know about Tommy, you gotta ask him yourself.
colt boyd		Look, I don't mean to interrupt your night. He put this address down when he signed up at the gym.
paddy		He doesn't live here.
announcer		It's time for our next contest! Introducing first, fighting out of the red corner, from Ripley, West Virginia, please welcome Mike "The Mutilator" Moore!
referee		Fighters to the center! I want you to obey my commands at all times. If you have no questions, touch gloves, back up, and wait for my signal. Come out fighting!
promoter		Nice fight. Two more wins and you take home the bacon.
tess		 Hey babe. How was work?
brendan		I'm not bouncing at a club.
tess		What do you mean you're not bouncing?
brendan		I went in to apply. They were only paying nine bucks an hour. Then I saw a sign for this other thing.
tess		 I thought we agreed that we weren't going to raise our children in a family where their father gets beat up for a living.
brendan		We're not giving up the house. This is our home. We're not going BACKWARDS
tess		We'll figure it out. But this is what we're not going back to.
paddy		You wanted to talk?
tommy		Yeah.  I'm gonna start fighting.
paddy		That right?
tommy		Don't play babe in the woods with me. I know that guy from the gym came to see you.
paddy		Colt Boyd? I didn't tell him anything, Tommy.
tommy		We wouldn't be sitting here now if you did.
paddy		What about Colt Boyd?
tommy		What about him? I told him I don't train with people I don't know.
paddy		Ah, the devil you know.
tommy		Excuse me?
paddy		The devil you know is better than the devil you don't.
tommy		 I just told you, this doesn't mean anything. You get that through your skull right now or I'm walking.
paddy		Alright. Alright. But you get something through your skull, too. You called me. So don't go threatening to walk every five minutes. And since this is about training, you dump whatever it is you need to dump as far as those pills are concerned. I don't want to see `em.
tito		My brother said he was at the strip club and saw Mr. C fighting MMA---
nash		What's MMA?
stephon		Mixed Martial Arts. Like, different styles of fighting.
kc		Your brother's a liar.
brendan		Take your seats.
tito		Yo, Mr. C. My brother was at the titty bar last night and said you was choking brothers out. What's up? Is it true?
stephon		Yeah, Mr. C. I mean, did you really work on some fools or something?
kc		You have to tell us.
brendan		C'mon, it's not as bad as it looks.
joe zito		Are you being literal or figurative? Because literally it looks bad. And figuratively it looks even worse. The superintendent's coming by in a few minutes. So gimme a little help here, Brendan. Can you explain to me what the hell you were doing?
brendan		I need the money, Joe.
joe zito		Yeah, but we can't have this. This isn't moonlighting at Applebee's for Christ's sake.
brendan		Actually, I used to be one of those animals.
joe zito		Yeah, I guess you did.
brendan		Look, I'm sorry, Joe. It's just--
joe zito		Listen, the school district's not going to tolerate school teachers cockfighting in strip clubs.
brendan		It was the parking lot of a strip club.
joe zito		Wherever it was, you can't be doing it, alright? I mean this is a serious--shit, he's here.
brendan		What are we gonna do?
joe zito		You say yes, sir. And you say no, sir. And you say it'll never happen again, sir. And then we just pray to God he's in a good mood.
tess		What are you doing?
brendan		 How'd it go?
tess		They're gonna review your case at the end of the semester, but until then you're suspended without pay. Joe gave me the number of his attorney.
brendan		How the hell are we gonna pay for an attorney?
tess		He talked to me for free. As a favor to Joe.
brendan		That was nice.
tess		He said there's no precedent for this. You'll be back by next semester.
brendan		Next semester?
tess		You're gonna put yourself through this over and over, for five hundred bucks a pop?
brendan		Some of them pay a little more than that.  I would have had to bounce for a month to make what I made in two hours last night.
tess		What are we gonna tell the girls?
brendan		It'll be fine. I'll just leave the house as usual, except now I'll be going to the gym.
paddy		 Oh the duck says quack and the cow says moo, and the old red rooster says cock-a-doodle-doo. Cock-a- doodle-doo.
tommy		Yeah, I'll tell ya something. You can take that thing back to where you found it. And you can leave the coffee in the pot. I can pour that myself. I can wake myself up, too.
paddy		OK. Hurt my knees coming up and down those stairs anyway. 
bradford		What's that?
bradford		Who's "Mad Dog" Grimes?
bradford		Wait, rewind that.
bradford		AV, I need to see the tape!
av		What tape?
bradford		The tape.
bradford		Freeze.
frank		Let the music sink in to you. This is Beethoven. Breathe. Breathe.
brendan		Liking the place, Frank.
frank		Thank you, brother.  You see this beast? Marco Santos? I'm training him for Sparta.
brendan		Amazing, man.
frank		Come on back.
frank		You look good, brother. How're the girls?
brendan		Good. Good. I had another little one. Rosie.
frank		I know. Johnny C. told me she was in the hospital for a bit. I was gonna call, but then time went by. I don't know. I'm a piece of shit. I should have called.
brendan		It's alright.
frank		No, Brendan. I'm sorry.
brendan		It's all good. She's good now.
frank		It's great to see you, man. So everything's going good?
brendan		Yeah. Well, I've got a little problem. The guys at the bank want to take my house away. That's kind of why I came to see you, actually.
frank		I've got most of my dough tied up in this joint, but how much do you need?
brendan		I didn't come here for a loan, Frank.  I was hoping you'd train me.
frank		Train you for what?
brendan		I want to get back in the cage.
frank		You're serious?
brendan		I just won an event the other night.
frank		Ah, you won an event.  That's what this is. Let me guess, it was in a parking lot. DJ from the local radio station. Couple of ring card girls you wouldn't bang on a dare. Am I right?
brendan		Ish.
frank		Ish. Brendan. I love you. I do. But why would I train you? When you were in shape and on the right side of 30 you were barely a .500 fighter. You never listened to me. You never listened to anyone. These guys are animals. I mean, you're a teacher, right? What're you gonna do? You're gonna come down here for a couple days a week after detention? You're gonna skip out of the girl's volleyball game early?
brendan		I've got loads of time. Time's not an issue. The parking lot thing kinda got me suspended. I need to keep working the smokers.
frank		Tess know about this?  Yeah? `Cause the last time you fought, I got read the riot act sitting in a hospital waiting room. You remember that?
brendan		No. I was unconscious.
frank		She's not gonna come down here with the two puppies, screaming at Frank?
brendan		It's not gonna happen. Come on. Whattya say, Frank?
frank		What do I say? What am I gonna say to you? No? I mean, all my time is wrapped up with Marco. You come down, I'll throw you in the rotation, you spar with these guys, no problem. But I can't promise you much more than that, Brendan.
brendan		That's all I need.
frank		Let me know when you're coming down.
brendan		 Well, I'm just gonna go get my stuff from the car.
frank		Now?
paddy		Hey, Brendan. It's me, Pop.
brendan		What're you doing here?
paddy		I have some news for you.
brendan		Something wrong with your hands?
paddy		Yeah, I forgot--
brendan		Phone or mail, Pop. Non negotiable.
paddy		Hey Brendan, have you ever seen my hands so steady? Have you?
brendan		I'm going inside.
paddy		I've got a thousand days. A thousand days sober today.
brendan		Well, that's great, Pop. But it doesn't change anything.
paddy		What do you mean it doesn't change anything? Have a heart, Brendan.
brendan		You listen to me. You take your have-a-heart bullshit and you run it down the road. Run it out on someone who doesn't know you like I do.
paddy		C'mon, Brendan. I thought maybe we could break bread. Open some lines of communication.
brendan		You got two lines of communication, the telephone and the post office. Just because you decide it's a special day, it doesn't make it one for me. I got a wife and kids inside and they're waiting for me, so I don't have time for whatever this is.
paddy		I know you got a wife and kids in there. I got a grand-daughter I haven't seen in three years and another I haven't even ever met.
brendan		Why is that, Pop? Why is that? Do you remember having anything to do with that?
paddy		Tommy's back.
brendan		Tommy's in Pittsburgh?
paddy		He came to see me.
brendan		He came to see you?
paddy		He's over at the house. We're doing a little training at Fitzy's. Remember Fitzy's? It ain't Fitzy's anymore.
brendan		You and Tommy are training together?
paddy		Riordan. He's using your mother's maiden name now.
brendan		I know what her name is.
paddy		I thought you'd want to know he's back. That's why I drove all the way over here.
brendan		I thought you came to break bread over a thousand days?
paddy		That too.
brendan		Did he say if he wants to see me?
paddy		He doesn't say much. He's just not that happy kid he was.
brendan		Wow, look at you. Mister inside man.
paddy		What's that?
brendan		You came to gloat.
paddy		I did not come to gloat. I came to get my son back.
brendan		Well, there you go. You got your son back.
paddy		I'm talking about you, Bren--
brendan		You got your son back.
paddy		Ah, Brendan. I was a drunk. I mean, you know. I'm sorry.
brendan		Forget it. You were always a front runner. You never had any interest in underdogs. But I was your son.
paddy		You are my son.
brendan		Am I?
paddy		Yeah, you are. I'm just asking you to find just a little space in your heart to forgive me.
brendan		Yeah. Alright. I forgive you. But I do not trust you. Tell Tommy this is where I am if he wants to see me.
paddy		Alright. But they're not different things. You've gotta trust to FORGIVE--
brendan		Goodnight, Pop.
paddy		My God, is that Emily? Boy, she's grown, Brendan. Is that Rosie?
rosie		Daddy, who is that?
brendan		Just some nice old man.
jon anik		Huge news breaking here at ESPN. Koba is coming to America and will fight at Sparta. Universally considered to be the greatest pound for pound fighter that ever lived, the mighty, mythical Russian has never fought on U.S. soil in his legendary career...
colt boyd		Tommy? Got some news for ya. I got you into Sparta. Took some doing, but I made it happen..  Thank you and 10 percent is customary.
pilar		Bueno?
tommy		Pilar. It's Tommy.
pilar		Tommy! Dios mio! I can't believe it! How are you?
tommy		Good good. How you doin'?
pilar		OK. You know me, Tommy.  I was getting really worried about you.
tommy		How're things? Kids are good?
pilar		They're good. Maria's getting so big. She looks more like Manny every day.
tommy		How's little man?
pilar		He's good. He's a good kid, Tommy. Takes care of his sister. He's a great kid. Everyone's good.
tommy		You know, Pilar, I haven't forgotten for one minute what I promised you. What I promised Manny. I've got an opportunity coming up to help you guys out. To take care of you guys.
pilar		Whatever you can do, Tommy. I know Manny would really appreciate it. You worry too much. It's OK. We're hanging in there.
frank		No he did not tap you! Physics teacher! That's the best in the world there, son.
brendan		You gonna be OK? Wanna grab a bite?
frank		Nah. I'm gonna head home. I gotta call the boys and break the news. I'll call you tomorrow.
brendan		Coach! Hey, I know this isn't a great time. And it's too bad about Marco. But what about me?
frank		You talking about Sparta? Brendan, please. You got a better chance of starting a boy band. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
brendan		It's a grand prix tournament. Which means anything can happen. You know that as well as I do.
frank		That's what I'm afraid of.
brendan		Frank, I need this. You're real tight with those guys. You call them, they'll listen to you.
frank		You realize what you're asking me to do here, Brendan? We go down to AC and you get tapped out in five seconds, how does that benefit either one of us?
brendan		That's not gonna happen.
frank		Not gonna happen. Wish I had a nickel for every time I heard that.
brendan		 It's not gonna happen.
frank		I'll make a call.
brendan		I love my coach!
tess		Really? So that's your decision? You decided? `Cause I really enjoyed that conversation we just had about making that decision together.
brendan		It's a lot of money, Tess.
tess		I don't give a shit about the money, Brendan. I told you that. We're gonna end up cashing in your life insurance policy before we pick up that prize money.
brendan		You don't think I can do it.
tess		I think you can get killed.
brendan		I'm not gonna get killed.
tess		Fine, you're not going to get killed. But can you promise me you're not going to get hurt? You're not gonna end up in the hospital? You're not gonna end up paralyzed? We'll have no prize money. No house. Payments for HOSPITAL BILLS--
brendan		Tess, I can promise you this: if I don't try, they're gonna take the house. How's that for a promise?
tess		I'm not gonna watch you fight again. I'm not.  I'm gonna get the girls breakfast.
callen		J.J., you've made a fortune with your hedge funds, yet you turned your back on Wall Street and dedicated your life to making Sparta happen. Tell us, why is this tournament so important to you?
sheridan		Thank you, J.J. And here's something fans never thought they'd see: Koba is here! The legend arriving to fight on U.S. soil for the very first time...
frank		Hey. Where'd you go? You can't leave me like that. They wanna talk to you, not me.
paddy		Tommy!
tommy		I'm takin' a walk.
brendan		Been looking all over for you. How's it going?
tommy		It's going.
brendan		I was thinking maybe we could grab a coffee.
tommy		I don't drink coffee. Whattya want?
brendan		You don't want to go sit down somewhere?
tommy		I'm good right here.
brendan		Shit, Tommy. How was I supposed to know I was never gonna see you guys again?
tommy		You were briefed. You had the information. You chose the old man and the girl.
brendan		She wasn't some girl. I married her. She's my wife.
tommy		Don't know `em.
brendan		I know you don't know them. Of course you don't know them.
tommy		Why am I looking at pictures of people I don't know?
brendan		Because that's my family.
tommy		And who are you exactly?
brendan		I'm your brother, man.
tommy		You were in the Corps?
brendan		What?
tommy		I said I didn't know you were in the Corps.
brendan		I wasn't in the Corps.
tommy		Then you ain't no brother to me. My brother was in the Corps.
brendan		Jesus, Tommy. I was a 16 year old kid. What the hell did I know?
tommy		I don't know what you know. Why don't you go ask your girlfriend about it?
brendan		She's my wife, Tommy. So that's it? I stay with Tess and I never get to see you guys again? Not a single phone call? Nothing?
tommy		Shit. He's just some old vet I train with. He means nothing to me. From what I hear he means nothing to you, either, so you got balls talking about forgiveness.
brendan		That's got nothing to do with forgiveness. I've got a family to protect. Everything I do is for them.
tommy		 You forgave us?
brendan		Yeah.
tommy		I'm not surprised you made the tournament, Brendan. You got some stones.
brendan		I fell in love, Tommy. What the hell was I supposed to do?
tommy		You were supposed to stick to the plan. You were supposed to come with us. Mom needed you. I needed you. You were my big brother and you bailed on me.
brendan		You're not the only one who suffered, Tommy. I didn't even know she was sick. I never even got the chance to say goodbye to my own mother. You had no right to keep that from me! That was not your decision to make!
tommy		You know what? You walk around with your pictures in your wallet and you're all, I forgive you, I forgive Pop. I forgive everyone. But you know what? You're full of shit.
joe zito		You realize you're supposed to seek my wise counsel when school's actually in session, right?
stephon		We want to use the auditorium this weekend to watch Mr. C in Sparta.
tito		What do you say?
joe zito		Let me get this straight. You want to use the auditorium to watch a suspended teacher engage in the activity he was suspended for? Am I hearing this correctly?  I gotta talk to your parents. You guys might need to be in summer school after all.
nash		But everyone wants to see it.
kc		The gym's the only place that's big enough.
joe zito		It's never gonna happen.
stephon		What if we get a petition?
tito		Yeah. We'll get the whole school to sign it.
nash		The power of democracy!
joe zito		Look, I appreciate that you guys love your teacher. I really do. But there is nothing I can do for you.
callen		Welcome, I'm Bryan Callen along with best-selling fight author Sam Sheridan. Sam, when J.J. Riley conceived Sparta he wanted to create, quite simply, the biggest Mixed Martial Arts spectacle in history.
sheridan		Five million dollars, Bryan. Five million dollars. J.J. Riley put his money where his mouth is and put up the biggest purse this sport has ever seen.
callen		It's unprecedented, Sam. As is the hoopla surrounding Tommy Riordan, the war hero who has become an overnight sensation...
official		Five minutes, Paddy.
callen		Sam. He ripped the door off a tank!
josh rosenthal		Gentlemen, you've been given your instructions. I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this.
official		Show time.
frank		You can do this.
brendan		I can do this.
frank		Then let's go do this.
paddy		Go get `em, son.
callen		Classical music is about as fitting to this setting as Brendan Conlon is to this tournament. In fact, let me show you something.
sheridan		C'mon, give the guy a break. At least we've seen him fight before. He was in the UFC. We remember him.
callen		I remember him, too. I remember him being very unmemorable.
frank		You asked for it.
josh rosenthal		Alright, gentleman, you've been given your instructions, I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this.
frank		Have some fun, baby.
zito		Move! You gotta move!
zito		C'mon, Brendan, get outta there!
frank		Get out of there! Get out of there!
frank		Beautiful! Beautiful! He doesn't know what hit him!
sheridan		It just did, Bryan.
zito		He tapped him out! He tapped him out! He did it! He did it! He did it!
callen		Very technical finish, but come on, that's a fluke.
sheridan		I hope you got a receipt for your goldfish.
tess		Yes!
paddy		You can do it, Brendan.
frank		Take him down!
paddy		That's it, Brendan!
paddy		Way to go, Brendan!
brendan		I'd doing this!
paddy		OK, son.
brendan		I'm doing it!
josh rosenthal		Gentlemen, you ready? You ready? Let's go to war!
paddy		Can't sleep, huh?
tommy		How about deserting my unit? Is that really something, too? Yeah. I was on my way outta country when I came across those guys. What was I supposed to do, let `em drown?
paddy		No.  What'd you do?
tommy		What'd I do? I took off.
paddy		That's why you go by Riordan. That's why the press can't find your service records.
tommy		That is none of your business.
paddy		Come on, kiddo. I've been there. I've done it. I've seen it. You can trust me. I'll understand.
tommy		Spare me the compassionate father routine, Pop. The suit don't fit.
paddy		I'm really trying here, Tommy.
tommy		You're trying? Now? Where were you when it mattered? I needed this guy back when I was a kid. I don't need you now. It's too late now. Everything's already happened. You and Brendan don't seem to understand that. Let me explain something to you: the only thing I have in common with Brendan Conlon is that we have absolutely no use for you.
paddy		God pity `em! All shall perish except me! You bastards! Stop the ship, you bastards!
marines		 From the halls of Montezuma to the shores of Tripoli, we will fight our country's battles in the air, on land, and sea...
sheridan		It sounds like VJ Day in Times Square, Bryan. I've never seen anything like it!
josh rosenthal		Alright gentlemen, you've been given your instructions. I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this.
mad dog		It's not gonna happen again.
josh rosenthal		Gentlemen, you ready? You ready? Let's go to war!
colt boyd		Stop it! Stop the fight!
frank		You've got a visitor. Second row, 10 o'clock.
frank		I want you to look right at him when he comes in here. Don't take your eyes off him.
josh rosenthal		Alright, gentlemen, you've been given your instructions. I expect a clean fight. 
josh rosenthal		Gentlemen, you ready? You ready? Let's go to war!
josh rosenthal		Let's go to war!
frank		Sit down. Breathe.  Look at me! Look at me! Why are we here, Brendan? Why are we here? Are we here to win this fight? You tell me, `cause if we're not, I'll throw in the towel right now. We'll get Tess and we will go home. You don't knock him out, you lose the fight. Understand me? You don't knock him out, you don't have a home.
josh rosenthal		Let's go to war!
frank		Crank it! Crank it!
tess		 What are you gonna do?
brendan		I'm gonna fight him.
frank		One more time.
josh rosenthal		Gentlemen, this is the final. Five rounds. I expect a clean fight. Obey my commands at all times. Defend yourselves at all times. Touch gloves, go back, let's do this.
brendan		Where's Pop?
josh rosenthal		Gentlemen, are you ready? Are you ready? Let's go to war!
tess		What was that!
frank		C'mon, Josh!
brendan		Angle out, hit, and move.
frank		Good. Breathe. Relax. He's not your brother, right? He's just a guy who's in the way.
frank		Switch! Switch!
brendan		Tap, Tommy!
brendan		I popped his shoulder.
frank		Relax, breathe.
brendan		I heard it tear.
frank		You popped his shoulder? Good. I want you to pop his other shoulder.
brendan		Josh!
frank		Hey! Hey! No Josh! Look at me! You got two rounds left! You need both rounds! Go in there, kick him in the head, take him down, and finish him!
brendan		Tommy! What are you doing?
tommy		Shut up! C'mon.
brendan		What are you that crazy?
josh rosenthal		Let's go to war!
brendan		What are you doing? It's over!
frank		Finish him! You finish him!
josh rosenthal		Break! Break!
brendan		I'm sorry, Tommy! I'm sorry!
****Dialogues from script :Watchmen.txt****

anchorwoman		--addressing the United Nations today, the President expressed his concern over the increasingly intense territorial disputes in both Asia and the Middle East. CUT TO: The PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES--
president		The sound of a bullet at one end of the world echoes across the ocean to the other end. Armed conflict is not self contained in its respective region--the consequences reverberate through every nation across the world and therefore must be avoided at all costs. CUT BACK TO: The Anchorwoman--
anchorwoman		While the President's position was clear, he did not comment on whether or not he would order Dr. Manhattan into action should the situation continue to escalate. CUT TO: Stock footage of DR. MANHATTAN--a man, at least he appears to be, who has glowing blue skin. The stock footage shows Dr. Manhattan flying through the air as a MISSILE heads straight for him.
blake		Just a matter of time, I suppose. With sudden, blinding speed, Blake WHIPS the SAUCER from under his cup, sending it FLYING like a saw-blade. The Intruder BATS IT out of the air with even quicker reflexes, but the act buys Blake time to pull a PISTOL with a SILENCER from a hollowed out STEREO SPEAKER. He's a pro . but so is our Intruder. Before Blake can get a shot off, the Intruder is already upon him, SNATCHING the gun out of Blake's hand-- --Blake PUNCHES the Intruder in the chest plate--the Intruder drops the gun. Blake fights. Not like an old man, but like the trained killer he is. But the Intruder is much, much faster. Younger. Deadlier. He SMASHES Blake with an elbow to the head. Blake falls. BLOOD blurs his vision. The Intruder picks Blake up off the ground. Brings him to the window with the great New York view. Thirty stories up. Blake looks the Intruder in the eye . and starts laughing. Hysterical.
cop 1		Hey! This is still a goddamn crime scene!
shopkeeper		It's been over four hours, I got a business to run-- As they argue, we're back following the happy face pin, as the water carries it to a DRAIN-- --when someone picks the pin up. We're in this person's POV as he studies the pin for a moment before pocketing it. We never see his face. We move from his POV-- --to across the street, arriving at a NEWS STAND. People at the news stand stare at. the crime scene. At the cop still arguing with the shopkeeper, the patrol cars, the yellow tape. At the MEDICAL EXAMINER zipping up Blake's BODY BAG. Other people at the news stand ignore the scene and peruse the magazines and periodicals, most of which have inflammatory headlines regarding the tense atmosphere currently in the world--a Newsweek headline reads "War?", The New York Times: "China Moves Battleships near Taiwanese Waters," The New York Post, over a PHOTO of the President with Dr. Manhattan: "What Me Worry?" The NEWS VENDOR notices a MAN frowning at the papers.
news vendor		 Depressing ain't it?
man		But good for business, right?
news vendor		Yeah. Irony's a bitch. The man pays for a newspaper when A HOMELESS MAN taps the News Vendor on the shoulder.
homeless man		The current issue of The New Frontiersman, where is it?
news vendor		It's late this month.
homeless man		When will it be here?
news vendor		I dunno, pal, like I said, it's late-- We MOVE BACK ACROSS THE STREET, to Blake's apartment building, then MOVE UP the building, to the broken glass window Blake was thrown out of. We MOVE INTO THE WINDOW--
cop 1		You sure it wasn't the wind?
cop 2		Nah, I definitely heard something.
cop 1		I tell ya, I'd rather do traffic duty than be posted at a crime scene all night. Watch the door. Cop 1 pulls his gun, going through the motions rather than being concerned. He then enters the bedroom. Cop 2 stands guard, nervous From the bedroom:
hollis		All the nuts that started popping up, I'll tell ya. Who was that midget you and your partner chased down years ago? What'd he call himself?
dan		The Big Figure.
hollis		Big Figure. A midget bad guy. Guess it doesn't get lower than that, does it? Hollis laughs at his own joke; Dan chuckles, polite.
dan		 Wow, it's really late. Dan stands, finishes his beer. Hollis sees him to the door.
hollis		Well, even though I spent my time catching real bad guys, you were still a better Nite Owl than I ever was.
dan		That's bullshit, Hollis, and you know it. They hug.
hollis		With all this talk of war, all that's going on in the world, it's a shame the government forced all you guys out. Before Dan can answer he notices a breaking news report on the TV:
anchorwoman		This just in--masked vigilante Rorschach has assaulted a New York City police officer who was guarding a crime scene in the early morning hours. Rorschach is on the FBIs ten most wanted list for violation of the Keene Act, which banned masked heroes ten years ago. Dan and Hollis watch as an image of Rorschach flashes on screen.
hollis		Well, forced all of you guys out except one.
gang leader		Move your leg.
dan		What?
gang leader		I said move, dick. Dan finally realizes what he's talking about. Dan meets his eyes, for just a moment and draws back his leg. The Gang Members snicker at Dan as they pass.
dan		Rorschach. Rorschach sits at the table, mask half up, eating a cold CAN
rorschach		Hello Daniel. I helped myself to some beans. You don't mind?
dan		No, of course not. You uh, want me to heat some up for you?
rorschach		No need.
dan		You were on the news. They say you attacked a cop.
rorschach		Minor wound. Won't need hospitalization.
dan		Other than that . How have you been keeping?
rorschach		Out of prison. So far. Look at this. He tosses Blake's happy face pin onto the table. Dan picks it up, runs his fingers over the RED-BROWN SPLOTCH.
dan		This little stain, is that bean juice or--
rorschach		Human bean juice. It belonged to the Comedian. He's dead.
dan		The Comedian? Nervous now, Dan glances out the window. DAN  Let's talk downstairs.
dan		How did it happen?
rorschach		Murder. Someone threw him out a window.
dan		Maybe it was a burglary. The killer might not have known who Blake was.
rorschach		An ordinary burglar? Kill the Comedian? Ridiculous.
dan		You're right. I heard he was working for the government. Maybe it was a political killing.
rorschach		Maybe. Or maybe someone's decided to kill off costumed heroes.
dan		You don't think that's . a little paranoid?
rorschach		Is that what they're saying about me now? That I'm paranoid?
dan		I-'m just saying the Comedian made a lot of enemies over the years, even amongst his friends, if he had any. The man wasn't exactly endearing. Just because something happened to him doesn't mean it involves us.
rorschach		One of our own has been murdered. I thought you might be interested. An attack on one is an attack on all of us, right? Dan hesitates.
dan		I'm out, Rorschach. I've been out, we've all been out. Except you. You know that.
rorschach		Yes. I know that. Anyways, I thought I'd let you know. Just in case.
dan		Yeah, thanks. You can take the tunnel out to the warehouse on Fleet street-- Rorschach turns to walk off down a long, dark TUNNEL.
rorschach		I remember. Used to come here a lot. Back when we were partners.
dan		Yeah. Those were good times, Rorschach. Great times.  What ever happened to them?
rorschach		You quit. Rorschach disappears into the SUBWAY TUNNEL, leaving Dan to reminisce alone. Dan glances at his old costume hanging.
hooker		So tell me what you wanna do. Sir.
army officer		Seeing that I don't have to be back to base till Friday--everything. He puts a stack of BILLS on the dresser. Then takes his UNIFORM off like he can't wait. The Hooker gets on top of him- --when the DOOR FLIES OFF THE HINGES. Rorschach steps in, yanks the Hooker off-- --the officer gets to his feet, throws a punch, which Rorschach dodges. Rorschach GRABS the guy's arm, then KICKS the Officer on the side of his KNEE, tearing the joint to shreds. The Officer cries out in pain, falls to the floor-- Rorschach nails him in the head with a BLACK JACK, knocking him out. The Hooker screams. Rorschach grabs her by the hair and SLAMS her face into the wall.
rorschach		Quiet, whore.
dan		I'm here to see Adrian Veidt.
assistant		Do you have an appointment?
dan		No, uh, just tell him Dan Dreiberg is here to see him.
assistant		I'm sorry, Mr. Veidt doesn't see anyone without an appointment.
dan		I understand, but if you would just tell Adrian that Dan Dreiberg is here, I'm an old friend.
assistant		Well, Mr. Veidt is very busy at the
dan		Just tell him I'm here. I assure you he'll see me. Dan glares at her. She glares right back. A game of chicken. She reluctantly gets up, goes inside the office. Once she's gone, Dan's glare disappears, replaced by nervousness. Because he's not sure if Adrian will see him-- it's been a long time. He glances at the SECURITY GUARDS eyeing him. Finally, the Assistant returns.
assistant		Go on in, Mr. Dreiberg.
doug roth		Mr. Veidt, would you acknowledge that you are considered the world's smartest man?
doug roth		If we could move off the subject of business for a moment, I'm curious whether the world's smartest man thinks we're headed for our next World War. Adrian stops the treadmill, towels off as he heads to Dan.
adrian		Predicting stock prices isn't the same as predicting world events. I hope there isn't a war, or even a skirmish for that matter. Because Veidt Enterprises has some exciting plans, plans that will, pardon the cliche, truly make this world a better place. My team of engineers and scientists have been working with Dr. Manhattan himself on synthesizing a new, cheap form of energy which will eliminate the worlds reliance on fossil fuels with no toxic emissions. This energy could power cars, aircrafts, stadiums--there are no limitations-- 
dan		You look good, Adrian.
adrian		Dan--it's been far too long.
adrian		Rorschach. He paid me a visit too.
dan		He did? Must've been tough to get past your security, even for him. I thought your assistant was going to take me out.
dan		You're the world's smartest man, Adrian. You tell me.
adrian		Rorschach's a sociopath suffering through nostalgia. I revealed my identity to the public as soon as the Keene Act was passed. If an old enemy wanted me dead it would have been done already. Adrian notices the news on one of his TV projectors. Something about Pakistan putting troops along the Indian border. Adrian turns up the volume, looking grim.
pakistani soldier		We should attack the Indian bastards. I don't understand-- CUT TO: POV--a SNIPER SCOPE, locked in on the Pakistani soldier.
chinese captain		 --their blue abomination to intervene. And we don't want that. At the same time, we can't assume to know what's on the minds of our enemies. We're in Chinese waters, off the coast of Taiwan. The CHINESE CAPTAIN and his First Mate look out at the water. TAIWANESE GUNBOATS can be seen in the distance.
aide		Is Dr. Manhattan even real?
israeli officer		Why don't you ask the Vietnamese. Or the Iraqis? Dr. Manhattan is real. Thank god for that.
rorschach		Dr. Manhattan. Dr. Manhattan continues about his business when his girlfriend, LAURIE JUPITER, 30, very much in her prime, enters from the other end.
laurie		Jon, did you say some--Rorschach: What are you doing here? You're a wanted man.
rorschach		Nice to see you too, Silk Spectre.
laurie		Don't call me that. My mother made me take that name. I always hated it.
rorschach		Sorry, Miss Jupiter. I thought I should tell you the bad news--the Comedian has been murdered.
rorschach		I have my own theories. But neither of you seem too concerned.
laurie		Well, I might not be able to count molecules, but either way, Blake was a bastard. You know he tried to rape my mother?
rorschach		Sounds like you may have had a score to settle. You or your mother.
laurie		What? Are you accusing--
rorschach		--I'm not here to judge the moral discrepancies of a man who died in service of his country.
laurie		You call rape a moral discrepancy?!
rorschach		I came here to warn you both, just like I warned Adrian and Dan. I believe someone may be targeting masked heroes--
rorschach		It took a lot of effort to get in here. I'm not leaving before I've-- With a look, Dr. Manhattan makes Rorschach disappear.
rorschach		--had my say Rorschach realizes what just happened. Checks himself, his surroundings. Reorients himself. With nothing else he can do, he heads down the road.
yeah		 Are you okay, Jon? Dr. Manhattan pauses for a moment, thoughtful.
laurie		Interference? Caused by what?
laurie		More war talk. I can't deal with this. I don't want to think about the future right now.
laurie		--that time is simultaneous. There's no past to travel back to, no future to travel forward to, everything happens all at once, our actions affect the course of time instantly, yes I know.
laurie		I know. I think I've been cooped up on this base for too long. Rorschach mentioned Dan Dreiberg--we haven't seen him in years. Maybe we can give him a call, see if he's available for dinner tonight.
agent forbes		Going somewhere, Miss Jupiter?
laurie		Out.
agent forbes		I'll have a car brought around in a few minutes.
laurie		No, thank you. I called a cab already-- it's waiting for me outside. She tries to walk past but Agent Forbes steps in front of her.
agent forbes		You look quite nice. Who are you meeting?
laurie		An old friend of mine. And of Dr. Manhattan's. Now step out of my way.
agent forbes		Please keep in mind, Ms. Jupiter, that your boyfriend is this country's most valuable asset. You need to keep him happy. And on our side. Laurie glares at him.
laurie		Yes, sir. She brushes past him as she leaves.
laurie		You remember that crazy guy, what did he call himself . Captain Carnage! Pretended to be a supervillian just so he could get beat up all the time?
dan		Yeah, he tried that with me once. I just walked away but he starts following me down the street in broad daylight yelling, "punish me! punish me!"
dan		Uh, well, he pulled that on Rorschach and Rorschach dropped him down an elevator shaft. They look at each other, serious, then explode in laughter.
laurie		Sorry, sorry, that's not funny. I can't remember the last time I laughed like this. It feels good. Dan looks at her as she finishes her coffee. We can see he's smitten with her and that he probably has been for years. Laurie seems oblivious.
dan		It's great seeing you again, Laurie.
laurie		Yeah, this was fun. The WAITER arrives with the check; Laurie grabs it.
dan		You sure I can't get that?
laurie		Let me put my expense account to use. You can thank Uncle Sam.
dan		They've been watching the whole time?
laurie		Just making sure I'm not doing anything that might upset the country's most powerful weapon.
dan		How is Jon, by the way?
laurie		I really don't know. It's been harder and harder to tell over the years. It's like his emotions are slowly eroding. To be honest, I can't tell if he even cares about me anymore. They're quiet a moment. Laurie glances at her watch.
laurie		Y1 know, when I think back, why did we do it? Why did we dress up like that? I think the Keene Act was the best thing to ever happen to us.
dan		You're probably right.
laurie		I mean, you remember my costume? All that tight spandex? That was awful.
dan		Uh, yeah. Awful.
laurie		And to think my own mother pushed me into that spandex. Pushed me into the whole costume thing in the first place. Wanted her little girl to be just like mommy and fight bad guys.
dan		Yeah. I'd really like that. Laurie crosses the street and gets into the sedan. As Dan watches the car drive off, TWO KIDS nearly bump into him, running around playing. The Kids make flying noises.
kid 1		I'm Dr. Manhattan, saving the Twin Towers!
kid 2		No, I wanna be Dr. Manhattan!
mother		You can take turns, okay? Dan watches the Kids for a moment, then walks away. The Twin Towers looming behind him.
sally		Laurie? Is that you?
sally		I'd figure you'd be used to traveling that way by now.
laurie		Well, I'm not. I hate it when Jon teleports me.
sally		Margarita?
laurie		No. Sally pours herself a margarita from a pitcher on the counter. We see photos, remnants of Sally from her crimefighting days around the condo. Under the pitcher of margaritas is a days old LA Times with the headline: "Dr. Manhattan Intercepts Terrorists At Port."
sally		It's Eddie Blake's funeral today, isn't it? Laurie nods.  FUNERAL: Blake's coffin is removed from the hearse.
laurie		Poor Eddie? How can you say that? After what he--
sally		Laurie, you're still young. You don't understand how things change as time goes by. FUNERAL: Blake's coffin is carried past Adrian, Dan and Dr. Manhattan.
sally		That leaves just two of the old team left. Me and Hollis Mason. She stops at Blake in the photo, regarding him.
blake		Me? I think it's hilarious.
blake		Fantastic. Just what I need.
vietnamese girl		The war is over now. We must talk.  About this.
blake		There's nothing to talk about cuz I'm leaving. I'm gonna forget you and your horrible, sweaty little country. He turns away. Her eyes blaze with betrayal and hatred.
vietnamese girl		No. You will remember. You will remember me and my country forever. She SMASHES a bottle. Blake turns just as the broken SHARDS SLASH HIS FACE, slicing him his jagged scar
blake		You bitch! My face! He PUSHES HER into the bar and DRAWS HIS PISTOL--
blake		That's right! And you know what? You watched me! You could've changed the gun into steam or the bullets into mercury or the bottle into snowflakes, but you didn't, did you? You're drifting outta touch, Doc--I've seen it. Don't tell me the war got to you. Blake walks off shouting "Medic!" Dr. Manhattan turns to the girl's body and regards it, curious. MATCH CUT TO:
adrian		What are you saying, Comedian? Blake, now in his forties, smokes a CIGAR, feet on the table, a FLASK in hand. The PAPER in his hand reads: "Arab Leaders Call Dr. Manhattan: 'America's Weapon of Satan."'
blake		What I'm saying is this whole bringing back the Watchmen thing is bullshit. It didn't work twenty years ago, and it ain't gonna work just because you want to keep on playing Cowboys and Indians.
dan		Maybe we should agree on no drinking at meetings. Look, Rorschach and I have made real headway on the gang problem by pooling our efforts. Rorschach's voice is quiet, not yet its tortured rasp.
rorschach		That's true. But something like this seems too big. Too bureaucratic.
adrian		Bureaucracies can be effective with the right leadership--
blake		And that would be you, right Veidt? I mean you're the "smartest guy in the world," right?
adrian		It doesn't take a genius to see that the world has problems.
blake		But it takes a roomful of morons to think they're small enough for you guys to handle. You people are a joke. You hear Moloch's back in town and get your panties in a bunch. You think that matters?
rorschach		Of course it does. Justice matters.
blake		Justice. Hilarious. There's no such thing as justice. He stands, moving to Adrian's DISPLAY which outlines the Watchmen's agenda: GANGS, RACKETEERING, DRUGS. Blake flicks his ZIPPO and the display GOES UP IN FLAMES.
adrian		My display .
blake		Justice doesn't matter, alright? Because twenty years from now we're all gonna be dust. Mankind's been trying to kill each other off since the beginning of time and now we finally got the power to finish the job. Ain't nothin' gonna matter when the nukes start flying, and I promise you they will. Then Ozymandias here is gonna be the smartest man on the cinder. He sneers and walks out. Silence. Uncomfortable in the wake of truth, the others pack up to go, muttering apologies to Adrian, but Adrian ignores them, staring at the flames flickering across his face. He seems more thoughtful than upset. MATCH CUT TO:
blake		Crawl back in yer holes before you get hurt! I got rubber bullets!
blake		Okay, that's how you wanna do it?! Smiling grimly, he FIRES TEAR GAS CANNISTERS INTO THE CROWD.
dan		Oh God. 
blake		Hah! You seen this? The smoke clears enough for Dan to see a message SPRAY- PAINTED on a brick wall: "WHO WATCHES THE WATCHMEN?"
dan		How long can we keep this up?
blake		My government contacts tell me they're pushing some new bill through Congress.
dan		Protection from what? Blake laughs, exultant in the blowing smoke, the chaos.
blake		Are you kidding? From themselves. CLOSE ON: the happy face pin on Blake's costume. MATCH CUT TO-
priest		Lord have mercy upon us. Amen. Dan DROPS the pin into Blake's grave. The mourners linger a moment as dirt is shoveled onto Blake's casket, then start filing out. We follow one particular mourner all the way in the back--a LONE MAN, as he walks away.
rorschach		Edgar William Jacobi. Also known as Edgar William Vaughn. Also known as William Edgar Bright. Also known as Moloch.
moloch		What are you talking about? I'm a retired business maaAAAHHH!
rorschach		Lie again, I'll break your arm.
moloch		Oh God, please. I did my time. I'm not Moloch anymore. What do you want from me? Rorschach lets him go. Moloch's hollow eyes follow him.
rorschach		You attended a funeral today. Why?
moloch		The funeral? I don't know why I went. I just felt I should. I'd been thinking about the Comedian-- Rorschach SLAMS Moloch against the wall.
rorschach		How did you know Blake was the Comedian?
moloch		He broke in here! A week ago! He, he had his mask off. He was drunk--
rorschach		You were enemies for forty years. Why would he visit you?
moloch		I don't know! I woke up in my bedroom and there he was! He was upset! Crying!
rorschach		The Comedian? Crying?
moloch		He, he was babbling, not making sense. I was pissing in my pants--I thought he was going to kill me!
rorschach		What did he say?!
moloch		He said he was wrong. About it all being a joke, that it wasn't funny anymore. He said he was scared--
rorschach		Scared of what?!
moloch		Something he saw, I think. He said something about wishing he never broke into that building. But that he had to keep his mouth shut. Then, then he left! Rorschach studies Moloch a moment, then releases him.
rorschach		Hm. Funny story. Sounds unbelievable. Probably true. Rorschach glances around the kitchen. He opens some drawers, looking inside. He picks up a stack of MAIL, flips through it. One of the envelopes contains a PENSION CHECK from "Pyramid Industries."
moloch		So that's it? I'm clean?
rorschach		Clean? I searched your house. Found illegal drugs.
moloch		Illegal--I don't use drugs. Rorschach pulls a PILL BOTTLE from his coat.
rorschach		Laetril. Phony medication made from apricot pits. Illegal.
moloch		oh c-come on. Look, please don't confiscate that. I'm trying anything . I have cancer.
rorschach		What kind of cancer?
moloch		The kind you don't get better from.
rorschach		Fine. You're off the hook, for now. If you remember anything else, leave me a note in the trash can opposite the Gunga Diner at Fortieth and Seventh. Keep out of trouble, Moloch.
laurie		Mmm. What time do you have to be at your TV interview?
laurie		Hey, your finger, it's like licking a battery. It's all-- She opens her eyes. They widen in shock and horror as she sees TWO DR. MANHATTANS in bed with her.
laurie		Forget about it. I overreacted. It was just strange to see-- Laurie can now see into the KITCHEN, where yet a THIRD DR. MANHATTAN is working on an experiment. Her eyes blaze.
laurie		Understand!? You're working in here at the same time we're in bed!?
laurie		Shut up! Just SHUT YOUR MOUTH! Laurie WHIPS a full BEAKER at 3's chest. It PASSES THROUGH HIM and SMASHES IN THE KITCHEN SINK. Laurie storms out.
laurie		Human emotion? You were human once. That's the problem, Jon. You've forgotten that.
dan		Who is it?
dan		Laurie? It takes a few moments for him to open the door.
laurie		I left Jon.
dan		Did, uh, the Secret Service follow you here?
laurie		I lost them in the subways. I think.
dan		I'm really sorry, Laurie.
laurie		Living with him . Dan, you don't know what it's been like. INTERCUT TO: Dr. Manhattan, holding Laurie's BRA. Staring.
laurie		I hope I didn't ruin your night.
dan		Not at all. I was just going to see Hollis for our weekly beer session. You're more than welcome to join. In fact, I insist They pass the news stand from the opening scene. The Homeless Man is arguing with the News Vendor:
news vendor		--I told you, this month's issue still hasn't arrived yet! Why do you care about that right wing rag so much? Cuz those bastards don't give a damn about you, pal! They--hold up, here it comes. They turn as SEYMOUR, a fat slob of a man, arrives with a BUNDLE of the latest issue of "The New Frontiersman." CUT TO: Dr. Manhattan stepping THROUGH and INTO the empty, floating suit. His TIE knots itself. Dr. Manhattan looks around the empty room . sad? Again, he looks at the photo of him and Janey Slater . . then
dan		Laurie, will you please stop apologizing? I'm here for you anytime. SHADOWS trail behind them, ominous. Someone's following.
laurie		I know. I just find it rude when people show up at your door--
producer		Terrific. Dr. Manhattan arrives and no one thinks to tell me?
receptionist		He, he just--
producer		All geez. We don't have time for make-up. That blue is too light for television. The light from Dr. Manhattan's SKIN DARKENS to a DEEPER BLUE.
producer		Uh, yeah
press agent		Just another reminder that if the second Geneva Convention comes up, our official position is that talks will not resume until the Chinese agree to exclude you from the agenda. The President approved this interview because he wanted to strengthen morale at home and to gently remind the rest of the world who holds the cards. Please keep that in mind. Dr. Manhattan stands off stage, waiting. The LIGHTS come up and we're live with the glossy NEWS HOST.
news host		He's been called many things; Hero, weapon, linchpin of our security-- CUT TO: Dan and Laurie turning as the Young Thugs BLOCK THE ALLEYWAY. One of the Thugs pulls a KNIFE. Laurie and Dan exchange a look. Dan removes his glasses. CUT BACK TO:
news host		Thank you, Dr. Manhattan, and not simply for appearing on this program. I believe I speak for all of America when I thank you for thwarting the terrorist plot at the port of Long Beach over a week ago-- Furious applause from the audience, which Dr. Manhattan regards curiously.
news host		Before we start, I want to explain to our viewers the unconventional format for this interview. Our live audience is made up entirely of news media and Dr. Manhattan will be taking questions from the floor. This commercial free broadcast is presented to you by Veidt Enterprises. We see Adrian standing near the audience with the Press Agent, smiling for the camera.
doug roth		Dr. Manhattan, Doug Roth, Nova Times. Do you remember a man named Wally Weaver?
doug roth		He died of cancer.
doug roth		How about Edgar Jacobi, also known as the supervillian Moloch? You had a lot of battles with him, didn't you? Did you know that he has cancer as-well? The News Host looks confused. Adrian turns to the Press Agent, growing concerned with where this is leading. CUT TO: Dan, snapping the GUNMAN'S wrist back and up-- Barrel aimed at the Thug's CHIN. In the last fraction of a second, Dan SHIFTS the gun two inches left as it FIRES, deafening the Thug, but leaving him alive. BACK TO:
doug roth		And what about Jose Flores? He was the longtime janitor at the Watchmen Headquarters where you worked for many years. Cancer.
doug roth		You tell me, doc. Adrian turns to him.
adrian		Doug, that `s enough.
doug roth		Irrelevant?
doug roth		What about Janey Slater? Do you think it makes a difference to her?
doug roth		Your ex-girlfriend, she was a physicist too. You were with her for ten years. Or does she have to remind you herself? Suddenly Janey Slater emerges from a door at the top of the stands. She is old now, frail, barely recognizable from the images we've see of her.
janey slater		D-damn you, Jon. God damn you
adrian		We need to stop this now. Adrian and the Press Agent hurry on stage, SECURITY following.
press agent		That's it! Interview's over! BACK TO: The alley, littered with the unconscious BODIES of the Thugs. Laurie and Dan lean back on the wall, gasping for air, horribly out of shape, but victorious. CUT TO: The TV studio, as Adrian and Security surround Dr. Manhattan, trying to escort him out. The audience spills out of the stands, RUSHING Dr. Manhattan with questions and, FLASHING cameras--it's madness. Adrian shoves a camera out of Dr. Manhattan's face.
adrian		As the sponsor of this program I demand all cameras off! His plea is futile, of course. A REPORTER breaks through, gets in Dr. Manhattan's face.
reporter 1		Did you give Ms. Slater cancer by sleeping with her?
reporter 2		Do you even care about human life?
adrian		Everyone back off! Don't you understand? He's the only thing preventing the world from chaos!
doug roth		How many other people did you do this to? Dr. Manhattan finally SNAPS--
laurie		I should find a hotel. God. Imagine, us getting mugged.
dan		Why don't you come by Hollis' with me? Shake off the adrenaline.
laurie		No thanks, I've had enough hero stuff for one night.  You take care, Dan. It's a dangerous world out there.
hollis		You're late.
dan		I know, you won't believe it--
hollis		You missed it--Dr. Manhattan just lost it on live TV.
dan		Wait, what? Dan turns to the TV, which replays the clip of Dr. Manhattan being accosted and then teleporting everyone to the roof.
hollis		She'll know soon enough. The whole world will know.
laurie		You're the Comedian, right? You were pretty cool in there. Blake lights a smoke, looks her over.
blake		You got your mom's eyes. Even that funny little mole.
laurie		Got another smoke?
blake		She was one of the all-time champion beauties, your mom. She talk about me much?
laurie		No. Not really. As Blake gives her a light, Laurie touches his hand to cover the lighter from the wind. She looks up at him, sly.
blake		Hey Doll. Long time no see.
sally		Not long enough in my book, Eddie. She eyes Laurie with cool death.
blake		Christ, we were just talking! Can't a guy talk to his, y'know, friend's daughter? What the hell do you think I am?
sally		I know what you are, Eddie. I've always known. Don't ever forget that. Driving off, Laurie watches Blake through the window--
agent forbes		Ms. Jupiter, you need to come with us now.
laurie		I don't understand, what do you mean, Jon's gone?
agent forbes		I mean he snapped and disappeared during the interview. Now our trackers can't detect him anywhere on the planet. If we want to find him you're our only hope. A TECHNICIAN wires Laurie up; GRAPHS record Laurie's neural responses, MONITORS show satellite images.
technician 1		Miss Jupiter, we need you to visualize Dr. Manhattan. Do you need a prompt?
laurie		No.
technician 2		Neurotransmissions tracking.
technician 3		Transmitting on all frequencies.
technician 1		We're ready Miss Jupiter. We need you to try and talk to him. Laurie, wired like a porcupine, seems embarrassed.
laurie		Jon? Jon, can you hear me? The GRAPH-NEEDLES jump and tick, searching . when a high, clear TONE rings through the room. Needles fly. Technicians dash to lock it down. Agent Forbes hurries to the graph, looking over their shoulders.
agent forbes		Have you got him?
technician 1		We've located his signal, yes.
agent forbes		Well? Where the hell is he? The Technician looks up, not happy about the answer.
technician 1		He's on Mars.
janey slater		Aww, Jon, look--you've got cotton candy on the side of your mouth
jon osterman		You do too. Here, let me get it for you. He pulls her close. They giggle like the young lovers they are and then kiss, passionate BACK TO: Dr. Manhattan walking on mars' surface. He approaches a LARGE ROCK FORMATION which blocks his path. He PARTS the rock formation telekinetically, like Moses parting the sea-- --and we FLASHBACK, mirroring the parting of the rock formation to the parting of two SLIDING DOORS, in the LAB OF A NUCLEAR TESTING FACILITY, as Jon steps into the REACTOR
janey slater		The time lock, Jon! As it dawns on Jon, he hears the hum of the REACTOR INITIATING, the big mechanical parts moving. Jon runs to the door, BANGS on it.
jon osterman		Janey: Oh my god! TEARS stream down Janey's face as she looks at him through the thick glass, helpless, hopeless. Inside, the chamber starts to GLOW .
janey slater		I'm sorry, Jon, I can't-- Janey can't bear to watch--she runs out of the lab as the reactor initiates
janey slater		Oh god . Jon is that you?
agent forbes		There must be some way to contact him. Laurie sits in the room, largely forgotten.
laurie		Agent Forbes.
agent forbes		 What?
laurie		I need to go to the bathroom. Agent Forbes gives her a look, then waves for a SECRET SERVICE AGENT to escort her.
laurie		You're getting me out of here.
laurie		Don't you understand that sitting there with a bunch of high tech radios and monitors isn't going to bring him back?
dan		Jesus! Rorschach
rorschach		Good morning, Daniel. I brought in your paper. Dan reads the headline: "DR. MANHATTAN LEAVES EARTH."
dan		My new lock?
rorschach		Get a stronger one, Daniel. You can't be too security conscious these days.
aide		--three synagogues were bombed in Tel Aviv, a bus exploded in Jerusalem--
israeli officer		Enough!
president		Forget picking sides--first, are we safe?
president		I want the National Guard put on the border. As for the rest of it . let's not jump into the fray just yet.
president		Let's just wait, okay?! Maybe he'll come back.  Maybe he'll come back.
assistant		Clock's ticking, Mr. Veidt.
adrian		I know. I'm meeting the toy people, yes?
assistant		Eleven-thirty. They want to talk to you about some new villains for the "Ozymandias" line.
adrian		All the old villains are dead.
assistant		What's with everybody today? Everyone's on this death trip.
adrian		I suppose the threat of war has that effect. ACROSS THE WAY, Dan enters the building, intercepts Adrian.
dan		Adrian, I need to talk to you. Adrian looks put off.
adrian		Dan, I'm sorry, this is a bad time.
dan		But what about what happened with ion? Adrian excuses himself from his Assistant.
adrian		Jon's departure is terrible. Not only for what's happening in the world now, but for what could have happened. The energy project he and I were working on--it's dead now .
dan		Rorschach came to see me again. Maybe there's something to this mask killer thing.
adrian		Are you still preoccupied with the ramblings of that lunatic? I really don't have time for this, Dan.
personal assistant		Sometimes I can't bear to watch the news. It makes it so hard to be optimistic Is that a gun? Dan sees what's happening--
dan		Adrian! BANG! The man SHOOTS the Assistant in the gut; Adrian immediately springs into action--he moves with unbelievable speed and quickness, grabbing a velvet ROPE-STANCHION-- --DEFLECTING A SECOND BULLET with it-- --and SMASHING IT INTO THE FACE OF THE ASSASSIN, knocking him into a FOUNTAIN. SECURITY GUARDS run, guns drawn, toward the fountain where Adrian GRAPPLES with the dazed man.
security guard		Mr. Veidt! Let us handle it!
adrian		Wait, he's got a poison capsule! He JAMS his fingers into the Assassin's mouth when Dan arrives.
laurie		Oh my god. Where's Adrian now?
dan		Talking to the cops. Thank god he's still in great shape. You get so caught up with the whole smartest man in the world thing you forget what a physical specimen he is- -he's as fast as I've ever seen him
laurie		I'm not sure. I can't go stay with my mom- -I'm sure that's the first place they'll look. But I need to get out of the city. It's only a matter of time before they find me.
dan		Listen, why don't you . how about you stay at my place?
laurie		Oh, Dan, I couldn't impose--
dan		It wouldn't be an imposition, I have an extra room. We're friends. And with everything that's been happening
laurie		You're buying into Rorschach's "mask killer" theory?
dan		I don't know. But it can't hurt to be safe. Besides, I've already had one wanted person visit me, another one won't make a difference. They look at each other. Laurie smiles.
laurie		Okay.
rorschach		Somebody tried to shoot the world's smartest man today, Moloch. Moloch sits at the kitchen table. CLOSE ON: MOLOCH'S HAND. An ignored CIGARETTE smolders. In his other hand, a NOTE.
rorschach		No.
rorschach		No. No, no, no
rorschach		Framed. Set up. Walked right into it. Stupid, stupid, stupid.
rorschach		Heh. Never. Never surrender. Rorschach takes an AEROSOL CAN and a PEPPER SHAKER.
rorschach		When you are
shit		The HOOK BLOWS THE BODY-ARMORED COP OVER THE RAILING.
rorschach		Ten years. I've waited for this. He beckons them forward. The cops PILE INTO HIM. Rorschach brutally disables six cops before he is overwhelmed.
fine		Get that mask off him!
cop 1		I got it. Christ, he stinks!
rorschach		No no no NO NO NO! The Cop peels back the shifting mask to reveal the Homeless Man from the news stand. He screams at them wildly.
laurie		What time is it?
dan		Noon. Thought I'd let you sleep in. Laurie smiles at him. Is Dan crazy or does he sense a spark? She touches his shoulder as she turns into the living room, then turns on the TV:
anchorwoman		Today, police searched the apartment of Walter Kovacs, better known as the masked vigilante Rorschach. Kovacs was captured last night and charged with the murder of Edgar Jacobi, formerly known as the supervillain Moloch. Moloch was found shot in the head at point blank range. Both Dan and Laurie stop what they're doing, eyes fixed on the TV: They see Rorschach, unmasked, IN SHACKLES.
editor		Rorschach is an American patriot and we are proud that he reads this publication.
anchorwoman		During his capture, Kovacs assaulted and severely injured at least nine police officers, shooting one officer with a grappling gun. That officer is in serious but stable condition.
anchorman		Meanwhile, in Kashmir, fighting continues to intensify. Both India and Pakistan alluded that the use of nuclear weapons is not out of the question-- Laurie shuts off the TV, not wanting to hear the war talk.
laurie		That mask's eaten Rorschach's brains away.
dan		He wasn't always like that. We were a great team--tactically, he was brilliant. But I don't know, something about this murder charge I just can't see Rorschach shooting Moloch.
laurie		He shot a cop with a grappling gun.
dan		Don't remind me, I made that thing for him. But a regular gun just seems too . ordinary
laurie		And this war, god. Sometimes I wish I could just leave the planet. Like Jon.
dan		Oh sure. The old Manhattan Transfer.
laurie		Now, that's funny. That's what you call Jon's teleportation?
dan		Well, not to his face. Laurie laughs.
psychiatrist		Walter Kovacs. Is that your name? Walter?
rorschach		No. The Psychiatrist sits back, considering Rorschach carefully.
psychiatrist		Let me explain your situation here, Walter. If you cooperate with me, I may be able to convince them that you should to be treated medically, in a hospital, which I believe is best for you. But the authorities want to put you in General Population.
rorschach		A prison is a prison.
psychiatrist		Yes, but the difference is, downstairs? They'll eat you alive. He holds up a RORSCHACH BLOT-CARD.
rorschach		A pretty butterfly. The Psychiatrist holds up another blot-card.
psychiatrist		How about this one? What do you see here? FLASH OF: Rorschach, as a LITTLE BOY, watching his MOTHER, HALF NAKED, EMBRACE A MAN AS HE HANDS HER SOME MONEY. When she catches Rorschach interrupting, she SMACKS him in the face. Shuts the door on him.
rorschach		Some nice flowers. The Psychiatrist eyes him, dubious. Holds up another card. FLASH OF: Rorschach as a little boy looking up at TWO OLDER BOYS, teasing him. Calling him "son of a whore." Rorschach just wants to be left alone when one of the Boys SPITS in his face. Suddenly, Rorschach's face changes. He attacks the Boy like a wild animal--biting, clawing .
psychiatrist		Tell me about Rorschach. Will you do that?
rorschach		Why are you here with me, doctor?
psychiatrist		Because I want to make you well.
rorschach		There's other men in here with behavior more extreme than mine. Of course, they're not famous. You want to know about Rorschach, doctor? I'll tell you about Rorschach
child molester		You think I had something to do with that girl? I didn't! Where's your evidence? Rorschach calmly points to body of the dog. 
rorschach		Men get arrested. Rorschach RAISES THE CLEAVER, high over his head
rorschach		A tremor of impact shook my arm. Warm blood splashed my face. It was Walter Kovacs who screamed, who closed his eyes-- it was Rorschach who opened them again. The silence reels out RORSCHACH  You see, Doctor. God didn't kill that little girl, fate didn't butcher her and destiny didn't feed her to those dogs. If God saw what any of us did that night, he didn't seem to mind. From then on, I knew. God doesn't make the world this way. We do. The Psychiatrist rises shakily. He crosses to the GUARD.
psychiatrist		I can't help him.
random voice		Hey Rorschach, I heard your momma was a whore! A cruel RIPPLE OF LAUGHTER and the mass conversation begins again as Rorschach takes his place in the food line. A HUGE PRISONER moves in behind him. He whispers:
prisoner		Hey, Rorschach. You're pretty famous, right? Y'know, I'm pretty famous too. Maybe I can give you my autograph. The Prisoner slides a SHIV from his sleeve
rorschach		None of you understand. I'm not locked up in here with you. Rorschach is placidly dragged off INTO DARKNESS
laurie		All these gadgets and there isn't even a dash lighter She hits a BUTTON--the lights inside go DIM. Creepy. She hits the button again to turn the lights back on but nothing
dan		Laurie?! Dan BOLTS for the basement door, thoughts of the mask-killer on his mind.
laurie		I'm so sorry--I hit the wrong button. I was looking for the lighter in.there.
dan		I don't smoke. Are you hurt?
laurie		I'm fine, but your ship--
dan		Ah, that's mostly just soot. Archie's pretty resilient.
laurie		Archie?
laurie		Still with the mask-killer theory? Rorschach is insane.
dan		Maybe, but the Comedian murdered; Jon exiled; Someone tries to shoot Adrian; Rorschach gets arrested. It makes me uneasy.
laurie		How did you ever afford all this?
dan		My Dad was in corporate banking. He left me quite a bit. Which always surprised me.
laurie		How did he die?
dan		Mugging. He was shot. As Dan cleans up, Laurie watches him, like she's seeing him for the first time.
laurie		You really do worry about me, don't you?
dan		Huh? Well, yeah, of course I worry about you, I mean, we're, y'know, friends-- Laurie takes off his glasses . and KISSES him. It's what Dan's been wanting all this time . but he pulls away.
laurie		What's wrong? But Dan is already walking up the stairs, pathetic. Laurie's left there, alone. The Owl-Costume looming in the background.
rorschach		Big Figure. Small world.
big figure		 I like that. But you know, it is a small world in here. I've been in it for--how long now, Billy?
dumb thug		Twenty years, Mr. Figure.
big figure		That's right. Twenty years since you and that owl fella put me away. Rorschach-- that guy you burned is dying. Could go any minute now. And when he does, this place is gonna explode. Then you die by inches.
rorschach		Tall order.
fat thug		 I'm gonna tear this guy a new hole!
big figure		Relax, Lloyd. Soon. Chuckling, Big Figure walks off down the long, shadowed corridor. Rorschach continues staring, straight ahead.
laurie		Dan? Is everything okay? I heard you coming down the stairs Descending the stairs, she finds Dan before his costume, naked. He fiddles with an OWL-WING THROWING WEAPON.
dan		Mask killers. War. Nuclear annihilation. I feel so powerless, so I've been afraid of this damn costume. Afraid of how much I need it. He FLINGS the owl wing crescent, whizzing into the dark.
laurie		So. Let's take the ship out.
dan		What?
laurie		Who's to know? I used to be a "masked avenger" too, remember? I'm used to getting up at three in the morning to do something stupid. Besides, I'm already a wanted lady, you're already in trouble for hiding me, how much more trouble can we be in? Just give me a second--can't go out like this. She jogs upstairs. Dan turns to the empty, waiting suit.
dan		I can't believe it still fits. Luckily I constructed it with material that was elastic and-- Dan turns as Laurie appears at the door, decked in her BLACK SPANDEX. SILK SPECTRE, looking every bit as good as seventeen-
laurie		I'm ready. Dan turns and sees his reflection in the owl-Ship's window.
dan		Me too.
dan		Let's have some cloud cover.
laurie		It's so beautiful
dan		Hang on. Dan BANKS, wheeling the ship toward the VELDT BUILDING.
laurie		Look! Below, a TENEMENT BUILDING is ENGULFED IN FLAME. Dan's jaw sets. He wheels the ship around and down. As they zoom closer, they can see people SCREAMING from the windows.
dan		I'm putting the water cannons on the lower stories. 
laurie		I'm on it. Nite Owl.
laurie		Hi. If you could all form a line, we'll have you out of here in just a moment. ATOP THE SHIP: Dan latches the steering column into its roof socket. He stands; Takes a deep, chest-expanding breath. Who has he been kidding? This is who he is. Flicking a switch OLD JAZZ plays pleasantly.
laurie		Anybody want coffee?
laurie		I can't believe we did that! That was actually fun
dan		Yeah. He puts a hand on her shoulder. His eyes locked onto hers. He knows what he wants and this time he's not afraid of it He kisses her. Hard. Running her hands up his cheeks, they slide each other's masks off. Their mouths melt together.
laurie		It was good, wasn't it?
dan		Yeah, saving those people from the fire. Taking Archie out Laurie swats him on the chest--that's not what she meant. Dan grins, having fun with her.
laurie		So . what do we do next? Dan sits up, serious. Very serious.
dan		I've been thinking about that. And I believe we have certain obligations to our fraternity.
big figure		He's dead, Rorschach--the riot's already begun. While everyone's distracted, we thought we'd bring you a housewarming gift. Something from the machine shop. The Fat Thug wheels an ELECTRICAL WELDER to the door. Rorschach sits, idly TEARING his PRISON SHIRT into STRIPS.
fat thug		Hey Boss, y'notice? None of that "small world, tall order" crap, cuz he knows once we slice open this lock, he's next on the block.
rorschach		Fat chance. The Fat Thug reddens. He DIVES forward, HANDS SWIPING for Rorschach.
fat thug		You're dead, Rorschach! We got a prison full of killers out here! What've you got? Rorschach SPINS, WRAPPING A SHIRT-STRIP AROUND HIS WRISTS, trapping the Fat Thug's hands inside the cell.
rorschach		Your hands. My pleasure. Rorschach SNAPS Fat Thug's pinky fingers. Fat Thug SHRIEKS. Rorschach roughly binds the fingers around the bars. Dumb Thug tries to reach the welder around Fat Thug's body.
dumb thug		I can't reach the lock. Should I cut the bars?
big figure		This riot won't last. And I've been waiting twenty years for this Big Figure nods to the Dumb Thug, who then grabs Fat Thug's neck.
dumb thug		Nothing personal, big guy.
fat thug		Boss, you can't be serious! Wait-- Dumb Thug SNAPS Fat Thug's neck. He then CUTS OFF Fat Thug's hands with the welder, pushes the corpse out of the way to reach the lock. Big Figure grins at Rorschach.
big figure		Now you find out what the score is.
rorschach		One-nothing. Come and get me.
laurie		Look, Dan, I'm glad you were able to rediscover your calling in life, but I think you're getting carried away. You're talking about springing a homicidal psychopath from prison.
dan		Rorschach may be sick, but I think he's on to something--four heroes attacked in a week is not a coincidence. I mean, that whole cancer thing with ion, does that make sense to you? You didn't contract cancer from him. He says as Laurie's about to light a cigarette. She changes her mind.
laurie		Why would someone want to drive ion away? Look what's happening now. With Jon gone it looks like we're headed for another World War. Who would want that?
dan		I don't know. But I know someone who might be able to help. Dan lands the Owl-Ship on the roof.
dan		You're leaving town? So you do believe Rorschach's theory.
adrian		Please. Right now, I'm not concerned with this so-called mask-killer, I'm concerned with the mass killer called war, or have you not heard.  On ! A WALL SIZED MIRROR turns into a TV:
cnn newscaster		--US Aircraft Carriers have already moved into the Persian Gulf and US Battleships have left Japan en route to the Far East
laurie		It's happening Dan breaks away from the terrible news, follows Adrian.
dan		All the more reason we need to get to the bottom of this. Maybe we can get Jon to come back in the process and stop all this madness.
adrian		Nothing we do will bring Jon back!  But I think you know that already. And breaking Rorschach out of prison certainly isn't the answer.
dan		Rorschach's been the only one investigating this from the start. Without him, we're starting at the beginning and we don't have that kind of time. We need your help, Adrian.
adrian		I'm leaving, Dan. And I suggest you both do the same. Adrian pulls on a thick WINTER COAT and heads upstairs.
dan		Where are you going to go?
adrian		Antarctica. It takes Dan a moment to realize Adrian is serious. By then, Adrian's halfway into the helicopter.
big figure		Hurry Lloyd! I wanna smell this sonofabitch cooking! The lock MELTS AWAY. Rorschach climbs onto his bunk as Dumb Thug enters, JABBING the electric welder at him menacingly. Rorschach drives his HEEL into the porcelain TOILET BOWL, SHATTERING IT. WATER SPILLS across the floor. Rorschach KICKS Dumb Thug in the stomach; Dumb Thug buckles, then SLIPS in the water--Dumb Thug falls, welder still in hand as he hits the water Dumb Thug's hand FUSES to the welder as ELECTRICITY SURGES THROUGH HIM. He collapses, smoking. Dead.
rorschach		Hmm. Never disposed of sewage with a toilet before. Obvious, really. Big Figure looks very small and alone now
dan		You don't have to do this. I know the whole crimefighting thing wasn't necessarily your choice in life.
laurie		No. But this is. She moves next to him.
dan		Hmm, Rorschach gets locked up in here and suddenly there's a riot. I wonder if that's a coincidence. They descend toward the hell of TEAR-GAS, FIRE and VIOLENCE. The Tower Guards, stunned at the sight of the Owl-Ship, begin SHOOTING at it. The bullets bounce right off.
laurie		How are we going to find Rorschach in all of this?
dan		When he and I were partners, we each had tracking implants put under our skin so old Archie here could find us if either one of us were ever in trouble. Let's see if Rorschach kept his in. Dan turns on the GPS monitor. There's a BLIP on the screen.
laurie		How do we know he's still alive? They come upon Rorschach's cell. Dan sees the SMOKING CORPSE of Dumb Thug. Sees the CUT OFF HANDS of Fat Thug, HANGING from the bars.
dan		He's alive.
laurie		Is that--
dan		Rorschach? Rorschach!
rorschach		Hello, Daniel, Ms. Jupiter. Excuse me, I just have to visit the men's room. He disappears into the dark bathroom. Laurie watches after him in stunned disbelief.
laurie		Oh, for Christ's sake.
dan		Hey, it happens. I remember I lost a big arrest like that once. Had to redesign the costume after that-- Rorschach exits the bathroom, wiping his hands.
rorschach		We can leave now. He walks off.
laurie		Are you sure you're ready? We don't want to go diving head-first into things.
rorschach		Good Advice. I'm sure there are many who'd agree with you. Behind them: BLOODY WATER FLOODS from the bathroom door as they go.
rorschach		Good to see you in uniform, Daniel. What happened? Finally taking the mask-killer seriously?
laurie		I'm not.
rorschach		Of course you haven't been attacked yet. Funny, most everyone else has.
laurie		What's that supposed to mean? We came here to rescue you, asshole!
dan		Hey! Survive now! Argue later! I had to turn the screechers off, so we'll be drawing fire. The owl-Ship rises to the roof. They all jump in.
dan		Rorschach, you remember how to handle Archie?
rorschach		I believe so. Rorschach sits in the pilot's seat. Dan turns to Laurie, high on adrenaline and love. Dan moves in to kiss her--
dan		Give us a second--
rorschach		I don't think this can wait.
dan		What? What is it Dan looks up, through the windshield, and sees-- --Dr. Manhattan WALKING ACROSS THE CLOUDS--STRAIGHT FOR THE
laurie		It `s him. The ship COLLIDES with Dr. Manhattan, who PASSES THROUGH into the CABIN with a SHOWER of BLUE PARTICLES--
laurie		They said you were on Mars.
laurie		Where? What are you talking about?
dan		Wait, what? You're taking her to Mars? No, she can't--Laurie, I don't know about
this		Laurie looks at Dan then at Dr. Manhattan. Comprehending
laurie		I have to go, Dan. Jon and I, we're going to talk. Maybe we'll find some way out of this mess the world's gotten itself in. I'll be okay. Really.
rorschach		No time for heartbreak, Daniel.
dan		Let's try and lose them in the city. He hits the jets, heading for the New York SKYLINE.
laurie		J--huc? Hhhhhhh-- Laurie GRIPS her throat and TUMBLES down the hill. She rolls into Jon, waiting for her at the bottom. She CLAWS at him.
laurie		Jon, you stupid bastard! Listen, you better not forget this air supply or whatever it is  Oh shit. Laurie stands up before Jon's huge GLASS PALACE.
dan		oh no.
rorschach		Tactical error, Daniel.
dan		I know-- They head straight for the subway-- --when the tunnel opens up-- --Dan SWERVES to the adjacent track just in time.
dan		Shit. Dan accelerates, weaving Archie around the skyscrapers, the Empire State Building . but the copter's still there. Dan cuts around the UNITED NATIONS BUILDING. The copter follows the Owl-Ship around to the East River . but the Owl-Ship is nowhere to be found The copter hovers there. Baffled.
gang leader		Rorschach? That fool put my cousin in a
gang leader		Does he now
hollis		It's just like old times, Sal. Nite Owl and Silk Spectre back at it again. CUT TO: Sally Jupiter on the other end in California, watching the same footage.
sally		I always knew Laurie had it in her. Sorry for waking you, Hollis.
hollis		I may be retired from the costume, but my sleeping habits have never changed. There's a KNOCK at Hollis's door.
gang leader		Then I'm probably doing him a favor. Hollis, old again, looks up. The SHADOW of the statue
rorschach		I hate this. How long are we going to stay down here? Daniel! Dan says nothing. Rorschach puts on his costume.
dan		Hey! We took enough unnecessary risks bringing Archie up so you could get your spare costume. We stay put until it cools down out there--they're looking for us.
rorschach		Unnecessary? Cowering in the sludge, from the authorities, that's unnecessary. Rorschach pulls his mask on, turns.
dan		I know, you told me already. I'm tapping into all the databases, finding out about the company--
rorschach		Sitting at a computer? No. We need to trace the killer--hit up underworld contacts, squeeze people. You've forgotten how we do things. You've been lazing around too long.
dan		Listen, I HAVE HAD IT! Who the hell do you think you are? You live off people while insulting them, and no one complains because they think you're a goddamn lunatic! Dan turns away, shaking. He leans against the console.
daniel		Dan turns. Rorschach holds out an open hand.
dan		Hey forget it It's okay, man. Releasing his hand with some effort, Dan sits, invigorated.
laurie		You . know about me and Dan?
laurie		Jon, I'm having enough problems right now without getting into your predestination crap.
laurie		Because. If you already know the future, why were you surprised when I left you, or when that reporter ambushed you? Why even debate if you already know the outcome?
laurie		Agh! This is so typical of you! Do you know what a relief it is to be with somebody human, like Dan?
laurie		But you already know . You said--
laurie		That's ridiculous. The Earth is too important to hinge on one relationship.
laurie		Are you doing this? I'm not in the mood for jokes.
rorschach		You sure this is the correct location, Daniel?
dan		Positive. Pyramid Industries. Specializes in industrial plastics. At least they did.
dan		I tapped into all the databases--tax records, business registries, real estate records--trying to get a bead on who's behind Pyramid but it's a never ending paper trail. Rorschach investigates ahead when Dan catches some MOVEMENT-- --he turns his FLASHLIGHT to find a few HOMELESS PEOPLE squatting in the warehouse. Upon seeing Dan in.costume, the Homeless People run away.
rorschach		Daniel.
dan		They're harmless, Rorschach.
rorschach		Daniel. Rorschach is looking down at something. Dan heads over and sees a DEAD BODY in the early stages of decomposition. He turns the body over--bullet between the eyes just like Moloch . but we recognize the corpse--it's journalist Doug Roth.
dan		Hey, I know this man.
rorschach		Yes. Doug Roth. Journalist who grilled Dr. Manhattan on national television.
dan		No I didn't watch that interview. This was the guy who was doing a story on Adrian when I went to see him.
rorschach		Hmm. Journalist set up Dr. Manhattan, was probably working to set up Veidt also. Dan stands there thinking. As if hit with an epiphany. He opens his mouth like he can't believe what he's going to say.
dan		Rorschach. What, what if it's Adrian?
rorschach		Veidt? Behind everything? Makes no sense.
dan		On the surface it doesn't, but hear me out--Adrian's the only one who could've taken on the Comedian in hand to hand combat. He's the only one with the finances to create an entire company for the sole purpose of setting up Dr. Manhattan. And Adrian was directly involved in arranging that broadcast. He probably supplied this journalist with the whole cancer list.
rorschach		That doesn't explain the attempt on Veidt's life.
dan		If we say that Adrian set that up himself, he could've had the hitman shoot his assistant first. It was a risk, but--
rorschach		But why?
dan		I don't know. Let's go ask him.
head scientist		Mr. Veidt, may I?
adrian		By all means, Eric.
head scientist		I just would like to say that when I was first offered this position, I was hesitant. A multi-year commitment to work in Antarctica?
adrian		I certainly hope so. The group applauds. Then they sip their champagne. All except for Adrian The group goes around congratulating each other, when suddenly the Head Scientist COLLAPSES, choking. The others surround him, trying to help-- --when one by one they each start collapsing themselves-- POISONED by the champagne. Adrian regards them all, writhing on the floor, and leaves.
dan		Something I can help you with, boys? They all spin around, frightened at the costume.
gang leader		L-listen, I didn't mean to kill that old guy. Things just got outta hand
dan		What old guy?
dan		You're dead! You and the rest of your gang, you're all DEAD! You know how much fire-power I've got floating out there!? Oh god damn. Hollis. God damn god damn god damn Dan begins to break up. Rorschach quietly pulls him away.
rorschach		Not now, Daniel.
editor		SEYMOUR! Is that Dulmage's editorial cartoon?
seymour		It's the mail. Hey cool, someone sent us their journal.
editor		War's coming, Seymour--I don't wanna hear some knob's life story! Chuck it in the crank file! Seymour tosses Rorschach's journal into a PILE OF LETTERS.
laurie		Can't you just tell me how this all ends and save us the trouble?
laurie		Tears. You mean I lose? You don't come back to Earth?
laurie		You mean there's going to be a war? An actual, nuclear war?
laurie		Static?
laurie		Jon, you've got to stop it! Everyone will die!
laurie		You're right, Jon--what does human life matter next to a, a neutrino. Look, I'm not going to debate you when you clearly don't see anything terribly miraculous about life. I guess quantum physics doesn't allow for miracles.
laurie		Oh God, Jon. Land this thing. Now.
laurie		That's it then. You can send me back to Earth to fry with Dan and my Mom and all the other worthless humans. And look, you were wrong. You said this ended with me in tears and see? Not a damp eye in the house. Maybe you're wrong about everything.
laurie		I'm not afraid, okay? You want me to see things your way? Go ahead, do that thing you do. She stands there, arms folded, waiting. Then, just like earlier in the lab, Jon touches her head--
sally		You wanted to hear it, so I'm telling you, okay?. Magic! Dreams! That's what I had before. I was a hero goddammit!
laurie's father		It's not my fault you got old! What do you have to complain about?! I'm putting food on the table for you and your child. Why don't you give your friend Eddie a call? Maybe he can give you a better life!
sally		It was a mistake--one time! Am I never-- And then they notice Laurie looking at them.
laurie		Mommy?
sally		Oh. Oh, Laurie
laurie		No. No, no, no, no not him
laurie		But he--
laurie		Well, of course you're going to say that.
laurie		What? But you were saying--
laurie		But if my birth is a miracle you, you could say that about anyone.
dan		I've got a large reading ahead. Anything that's emitting that much heat out here, must be a pretty big facility. Adrian.
rorschach		The engines--
dan		They're icing up, hold on! Dan pulls the stick back. The ship SHUDDERS UPWARD.
dan		We just lost the engines--find something to grab on to! The ship BARELY CLEARS THE CLIFF. BOUNCING hard, it SKIPS across the snow like a stone, finally CRASHING INTO A DRIFT.
dan		The engines are de-icing. You sure I can't fit you with something warmer?
rorschach		Fine like this.
adrian		See this painting? Alexander the Great. Before his conquest of Phoenicia, he struck North for Gordium, where the world's greatest puzzle waited. A great knot, impossible to untie. For a young man determined to rule the world, it was a challenge he couldn't resist. So he sliced it in two with his sword. Lateral thinking, you see. Suddenly the Lynx stands, GROWLS.
adrian		Really, getting even this far is an admirable effort, given their limitations. Of course the ice they're skating on is slippery and thinner than it looks. Let's hope they don't overstep themselves. On the monitors, Dan takes a LASER TORCH to the door.
rorschach		Hitler was a vegetarian. If you're squeamish, leave him to me. We won't get a second chance.
adrian		Mind your manners.
dan		Adrian, don't make me-- Adrian picks up a GOLDEN SERVING TRAY off the table as Dan FIRES. Adrian DEFLECTS the laser with the tray-- --then DISCUS-SLINGS the tray into Dan's NOSE. Blood SPRAYS, Dan drops to his knees. Adrian turns his back on them, calm.
adrian		Now. What can I do for you?
dan		You know! You killed the Comedian! You set up Rorschach! You created Pyramid Industries, hired all those people, gave them cancer and blamed it on Jon!
adrian		Yes.
dan		Dammit Adrian, what are you trying to do?
adrian		What we always intended--to improve the world. As Adrian speaks, Rorschach sneaks up behind him, with a FORK. He tries to stab Adrian in the back, but Adrian effortlessly dodges the blow, GRABS Rorschach's mask, TWISTS it, then KNEES him in the gut. Rorschach drops to the floor. Adrian starts walking out of the hall. Dan helps Rorschach up and they follow.
adrian		After Blake, I neutralized Jon--a plan nearly a decade in the works after analyzing confidential psychological profiles which predicted his withdrawal from human existence. By then, Rorschach's mask theory, 'though erroneous, needed to be addressed, so I faked my own assassination--
dan		Why take that risk? What if the hitman shot you first instead of your assistant?
adrian		I suppose I'd have to be fast enough to catch the bullet then, wouldn't I? Adrian smiles enigmatically.
dan		Triumph? Adrian, what are you going to do?
adrian		I'm firing a beam of concentrated energy, synthesized from Dr. Manhattan himself, into the hearts of nine key regions around the globe, crossing all traditional politics and ideologies;
dan		Three million people? You're joking.
rorschach		He's not. Listen to his voice.
dan		Rorschach, he's making it up!
adrian		I understand your disbelief, Dan. When I began the plan ten years ago, my moral safeguards gave me pause at the necessary sacrifice. See, the Comedian was correct. What we were doing with the Watchmen was pointless--the savage nature of humankind would inevitably lead to the end of the world. So in order to save the world, I had to trick it--to frighten the world towards salvation with history's greatest practical joke.
dan		By killing millions of people? And when were you planning on doing this?
adrian		When? Dan, my dear friend, I am the smartest man in the world--do you seriously think I'd explain my master stroke if there remained even the slightest chance of you affecting it's outcome?
laurie		God Jon, what was that? Jon looks around the street. Even he is awe-struck.
laurie		Was it a war? It doesn't seem like--
laurie		Take me out of here, Jon. Please.
laurie		Anywhere. Anywhere's better than here.
dan		God. God, he
rorschach		Impersonated Dr. Manhattan. Murdered millions of people.  Call off your cat. Call off your cat and face me!
adrian		Don't you understand? I've ended the war-- I've ended all wars. Because of their fear of ion, I've forced the world into everlasting peace.
dan		By committing the biggest mass murder in history. You have no right to play God!
adrian		I wasn't playing God. Just Dr. Manhattan. Suddenly there's a LOUD BEEPING in the hall. The Lynx growls. Adrian switches the monitors to the security cameras which show ion and Laurie materialize in the snow.
laurie		Wait, this is Adrian's compound? Are you saying he's responsible for this-- Jon walks toward the building, entranced. Distracted.
laurie		What, Daniel? Millions of others? Jon don't start that crap now, not here!
inside		In a burst, he's gone.
rorschach		No, don't let him escape!
dan		Jon, stop him, he killed millions of people, who knows what else he'll do. Jon walks calmly after Adrian.
dan		What? Where's Laurie?
inside		Jon follows Adrian into the next room.
adrian		Forgive me, girl. Jon enters the corridor with the Lynx; Adrian flicks a SWITCH. The Lynx' FUR STANDS ON END as ENERGY CRACKLES BETWEEN THE METAL WALLS. The Lynx HOWLS.
adrian		You know, I really wasn't sure that would work.
dan		Laurie, shoot him again! Adrian's hand falls from his chest to the floor, blood trickling, as his PALM OPENS-- --holding a BULLET inside.
laurie		Oh shit. Adrian opens his eyes and KICKS her in the stomach, sending her flying back.
dan		LAURIE! If you've hurt her, I'll--
adrian		Oh Dan. Grow up. Adrian exits as Dan helps the winded Laurie to her feet. Together, Rorschach, Dan and Laurie follow him back to:
adrian		Yes. Yes, you could say that. Adrian goes back to his wall of screens, watching the news reports. We hear SOUND BITES and IMAGES: "India and Pakistan immediately call for truce," "China stands down," "US withdraws forces," "Israel agrees on cease fire." TEARS stand in Adrian's eyes. He raises his fists in triumph.
laurie		Next? You can't get away with this!
adrian		No? Will you expose me, undoing the peace so many have just died for? Morally, you're in checkmate, just like the Comedian was. Jon examines the many screens, taking it all in.
dan		He's right. All we did was fail to stop him from saving Earth.
laurie		We we can't say anything about this
rorschach		You're joking, of course. Rorschach walks toward the exit.
dan		Rorschach, wait a second! Let's talk this out!
rorschach		Never. Not even in the face of Armageddon. Never compromise. Adrian and Jon's eyes meet--an unspoken communication. Seeing this, Dan runs after Rorschach.
dan		Rorschach! Across the hall, ion materializes between Rorschach and the exit.
rorschach		Back to the Owl-Ship. Back to America. People must be told. Evil must be punished.
rorschach		Suddenly you've rediscovered humanity? If you had cared from the start, none of this would be necessary. None of this would have happened. So what are you waiting for? Do it.
laurie		Leaving? I, I thought you regained an interest in human life.
adrian		Jon, I'd hoped to talk to you. I've made myself feel every death, see every innocent face I've murdered to save humanity--you understand, don't you?
understand		And with that, he disappears. Forever.
adrian		What's on your mind, Dan?
dan		Your death.
adrian		Really. You want to kill me?
dan		Yeah. You might have created peace, but not at the expense of justice. You need to pay for what you've done.
adrian		That doesn't sound like you, Dan. That sounds more like Rorschach.
dan		Exactly. Adrian readies himself. Laurie breaks away from the TV screens.
adrian		Only you're not Rorschach, are you now? How do you expect to succeed where he failed?
dan		Tell you the truth, Adrian. I don't. Dan FLIES at Adrian, fighting like a madman for his life. His fighting style has changed. Dan's newfound brutality is informed by everything he's learned from Rorschach. About justice. About life. But Adrian is the best. He takes Dan's attacks apart with ease, delivering blows which would kill a man not quite so focused on his goal. In the end, he CATCHES Dan's final strike and TWISTS. Dan's arm SNAPS easily.
laurie		Dan! Laurie charges Adrian. With one hand, Adrian blocks her attack, grabs her by the hair and SLAMS her to floor, knocking her out.
adrian		I have to say, I've always thought your choice of an owl was quite juvenile.
dan		Really? I've always liked owls Adrian sees that Dan has pulled one last item from his belt. Adrian STEPS on Dan's WRIST, bones crunching. Dan's HAND falls OPEN, revealing the OWL-SHIP REMOTE.
adrian		I . don't regret my actions. I know in my heart . I did the right thing.
dan		So do I. Adrian lays back, calm, accepting and dies.
dan		That's it. Careful. Now, pull the stick to the left The ship RISES and TURNS awkwardly in the hall, smashing out more glass.
sally		You sure you don't want a drink?
sally		It, it was years later, he stopped by out of the blue, and, and apologized. I don't know, I just couldn't stay mad. It just happened-- Laurie kisses her mother's teary cheek.
laurie		Mom. People's lives take them strange places. You never did anything wrong by me. Sally jumps as a CLICK/WHIR SOUND comes from a BOOKCASE.
sally		What the hell is that?
laurie		Oh that's Dan. Home from "work." The bookcase SLIDES ASIDE and a blond DAN enters from the secret ELEVATOR. He is trim and confident, cheeks flushed with color. Buttoning up his shirt, he spots Sally.
dan		Oh hi.
sally		Hello, Dan. Excuse me, I should clean up. Sally wipes her runny make-up, goes to the bathroom. Dan and Laurie embrace, kiss.
laurie		Any bad guys last night?
dan		There are always bad guys. Even in today's world. Slow, Laurie turns to the window. Looks out at the New York skyline being rebuilt.
laurie		Dan.
dan		Hmm?
laurie		Will it be alright? The world, I mean. He puts his arm around her shoulder.
dan		As long as no-one ever finds out that Adrian was behind it all, the public will think ion is still up there, watching.
laurie		Yeah. Just fine
editor		SEYMOUR! What the hell do you got for me?
editor		We got nothing to write about. Everyone in the country, every country in the world is holding hands now, singing songs about peace and love--it's like we're living in a goddamn global hippie commune !
seymour		Um, I guess I can look for stuff in the crank file.
editor		Crank file? Whatever! Take some initiative! Run whatever you like-- Seymour turns to the PILE of submissions known as the crank file, where RORSCHACH'S JOURNAL sits on top. Seymour reaches--
****Dialogues from script :Water_for_Elephants.txt****

charlie		Excuse me sir, can we help you?  Did you miss your ride?
jacob		I missed the Spec.
russ		The what?
charlie		Yes, I'm afraid you did. Can we call someone for you?
russ		He's seriously old.
charlie		Did you come with the folks from the retirement home?
jacob		No, I came on my own.
jacob		No, I told ya, I came on my own and I'm not going back. Get your hands off me.
russ		 It's OK. We're gonna call the home so they can come pick you up.
russ		Woah! The language. Uncalled for.
charlie		Sir, we need to get you out of this parking lot. My trucks have to come through here. Please... He offers the wheelchair. Jacob relents and sits.
jacob		In my day, they had old timers in the ticket wicket and freaks like him in the sideshow. Damn kid didn't even know what the Spec was.
charlie		You sound like you know circuses. Charlie checks his watch, impatient to get Jacob home.
jacob		I should. I was on two.
charlie		 Two circuses. Wow, that's something.
jacob		Ringling, of course, but that was later...
charlie		I'll need your name when I call the home.
jacob		...First one was called Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show ... Charlie suddenly stops upon hearing that name.
charlie		What?...Wait a minute! Did you say you were with the Benzini Brothers?
charlie		"31?...You're saying you were there for the---?
jacob		I was in the middle of it.
jacob		I remember it like yesterday... Better - cause I don't remember yesterday.
jacob		Jacob Jankowski the only.
charlie		Mr. Jankowski, I would be honored if you would have a drink with me in my trailer.
jacob		 Ah, I remember you...Camel would've loved this stuff.
charlie		Camels drink scotch? Jacob laughs, shaking his head No. Charlie pours another;
jacob		The Great Escape! But I got lost.
charlie		I should call the home, let them know where you are.
jacob		I don't know why they call it a "home". You don't know anybody there. They fill you so full of drugs, you don't care...Five kids and not one has a place for me since their mother died. They take turns visiting me on weekends. They forgot whose turn it was today so nobody showed up..
charlie		So, how did the Benzini Brothers stampede start? The story is two guys got thrown off the train and--
jacob		No point in telling a story if all you want to know is the end.
charlie		Sorry. From the beginning.
jacob		Now, let's see...the beginning... Well, everything began the same day everything ended...Ha, isn't that how it always works?...
the proctor		You may begin. Jacob, the Blonde and fifty other students open their exam booklets and begin under The PROCTOR's supervision.
the proctor		Mr. Jankowski? May we have a word? Fifty pairs of eyes turn to look at Jacob, who looks up.
dean wilkins		Jacob, it's your parents. I'm afraid there's been a car accident.
coroner		Are you ready? The Chaplain places a comforting hand on Jacob's shoulder. Jacob nods. The Coroner exposes first Jacob's father, then Jacob's mother. We see only Jacob's expression:
chaplain		Is there any other family to call?
jacob		No. Just me.
hyde		I know this is difficult for you, but there's been no mistake. The house and all their assets, including your father's practise, are now property of the bank in default of the mortgage.
jacob		But I'm telling you, my father put away every penny he ever earned. They owned that house outright. Why would he have a mortgage?
hyde		My guess is because he let people pay him in beans & eggs or whatever they had, instead of money.
jacob		And so he's penalized for not turning away people who couldn't afford his help? He was a doctor.
hyde		Yes, I know, he was a very good man but in banking terms, in the reality of what makes this world actually function, he was an irresponsible man. I'm sorry, but you oughta to know the truth. This Depression is going to last for a long while..
bank representative		This just came for you, Jacob. Whatever it is I'm going to have to include in the bank's report of assets. Sorry. You OK?
bank representative		Jacob? Jacob they need these signed by the end of the business day. Jacob walks away from the Bank Rep, pulling off his tie and tossing it. He is crying - the reality finally hitting him.
blackie		We don't need no bums on this train brother. You can get off right now and keep running. Old Timer rises with a lantern and hobbles on one bad leg, inspects Jacob and his nice suit with the lantern...
old timer		Now everybody calm down here. Grady put that damn rifle away. BLACKIE LET'IM GO...And I mean on the inside of the train! Jacob struggles as Blackie pins one arm behind him.
jacob		Jacob. Jankowski. Nice to meet you.
camel		You're pretty young for the rails. You running from something boy? You on the lam?
jacob		No. Nothing like that.
camel		Where you headed?
jacob		I don't know.
camel		Hungry? Outta work?
jacob		About anything I guess.
camel		We land in Deposit in the morning. We'll find you some work. And if you're still alive by the end of it, I'll get you some food and take you to Uncle August. Jacob drinks and chokes on the liquor.
jacob		Who's that?
grady		August Rosenbluth...Lord and Master of the Known and Unknown Universes. Ringmaster Extraordinaire. Jacob looks baffled. Camel laughs as he drinks more;
camel		Oh kid, don't tell me you didn't notice? Grady and Bill laugh though Blackie remains un-amused.
bill		Ha, he really don't know.
camel		HA! You didn't just jump a train boy. You jumped the Flying Squadron of the Benzini Brothers Most Spectacular Show on Earth... You done landed your ass on a circus, kid! PRE-LAP: The Circus Train brakes screeching to a halt!
jacob		What is it? What do you want? The Orangutan strains its arm. Blinking at him. Pointing. Jacob looks around and sees A HALF SQUASHED ORANGE on the ground in front of the cage. He picks it up. Jacob opens the den and hands the Orangutan the orange. She takes it and sets it on the floor of her den. She returns and reaches out for Jacob again.
camel		Gonna try to get you set up with Crazy Joe.
jacob		Do I call him Crazy Joe?
camel		It has been said Crazy Joe went to prison for killing a man who spit into the wind and hit the back of Joe's neck. So no, I would not call this man Crazy Joe to his face. Camel and Jacob walks on to an open stock car door, where CRAZY JOE stands - a burly man, missing three fingers.
jacob		I've never seen so much manure!
wade		Baggage stock horses. They pack'em in 27 a car.
jacob		How do you stand the smell?
wade		What smell?
wade		When Cecil gives the signal ya gotta push the rubes in towards the entrance but without them catching on or else they'll be a fight. Jacob, Wade and the other men position themselves equidistant around the perimeter of the crowd facing Cecil.
grady		Stand inside the tent and smack the sides with this when you see a head trying to peek in without paying. Jacob follows Grady into the tent...
jacob		Excuse me, ma'am? Hi. I'm Jacob. Marlena doesn't respond. She looks at him with suspicion.
camel		You like the food? You deserve it. You done good, I hear..
jacob		But it's the middle of the night.
camel		Only time circus people live - when they don't have to work. Come on...
camel		I got a son about your age. Lives outside of Reading, PA. Haven't seen him for years. Fix your shirt there. Jacob shoves in his shirt. Camel smiles. He likes the kid. - The Clown Car: Clowns without make-up reading or playing cards. They look at Jacob as if he were walking the last mile. One Clown waves goodbye.
barbara		How's your pipe, kid? Camel leads the slack-jawed Jacob away.
camel		Night ladies.
jacob		Hey Camel - who's that woman who works the horses?
jacob		Wife? Camel takes this opportunity to drink some Jake and ask:
camel		Look, kid, before we do this, I gotta ask... ..I ain't tryin to know your business but I do know you ain't been on the road too long. You're too clean, your clothes too nice and you don't got a possession on you. See, a man on the road collects little things. It's not a big life I can tell ya. So before you start, I ask: if you got any kind of life to go back to, that's what you should do.
jacob		I don't. Camel studies him, as if understanding what isn't said.
camel		I am sorry to hear that. They move on.
camel		This here's Earl. He's gonna take you in. Earl, this here's Jacob.
jacob		 I don't know how to thank you.
camel		HA! You may not want to after you been on a show long as I have. Good luck to ya, kid. Camel exits OS. Alone with Earl, Jacob asks:
jacob		Do I look OK?
earl		Very nice. Then, with one hand Earl slides back the door and with the other hand, violently grabs Jacob by the neck and throws him head first into the car.
august		What's this?
earl		That stowaway the old drunk took under his wing. College boy. Jacob tries to explain but Earl bangs him against the wall.
august		 I'll see your three and raise you five...
jacob		Jacob Jankowski, sir.
august		And what is a "Jacob Jankowski" and why he is on my train?
jacob		Just looking for work, sir.
jacob		No sir.
august		Ever worked a show, son?
jacob		No sir.
august		Ever been to a show?
jacob		Yes sir... Jacob, sensing where this is going, gets August's attention;
august		Ringling, you say?
jacob		Yes. But it was terrible.
august		Really? Have you seen our show?
jacob		The uh...the one with the black and white horses. And the girl in pink.
august		Ah, our Star Attraction. Well, I believe we're looking for a boy to carry water for the elephants, aren't we Diamond Joe?
diamond joe		We don't have an eleph-
august		Shut-up.
jacob		I would do that, sir. I'd like to work with the animals. August and the others chuckle. Jacob doesn't understand why. August crosses to Jacob, as he ridicules:
august		And you'd carry water for elephants? Ha, ha...you have any idea how much water an elephant drinks, kid? College! Pfft! Never met a college man yet who knew his own ass from shinola.
jacob		Times are hard for everybody...And I guess because ... out of all the dirt and sweat and shit and working with fellas you don't want to be caught dead meeting in the daylight, comes...so much beauty. We think August and the men are moved by Jacob's words.
august		That's beautifully put.
crazy joe		I got no use for people who rhyme.
jacob		 It was veterinary science! And I can tell you one thing - that Star Attraction horse of yours won't be walking in a few days let alone performing center ring!! August stops and turns.
august		Earl wait!
jacob		Cornell.
diamond joe		Marlena did want a vet to take a look at Silver Star. They cost.
cecil		He worked the rubes for me this afternoon. Pretty good.
crazy joe		He shovelled horse shit. Don't make him a horse doctor. August looks reluctant. Until Jacob caps it:
jacob		I hear Ringling has its own vet. The other men can't believe Jacob spoke up like this. But it amuses August, who faces him and smiles;
august		All right, Cornell. Come with me. August leads Jacob out.
august		Are you sure-footed, Jacob Jankowski?
jacob		I believe so.
august		Good. Without missing a beat, August leans forward, catches hold of something around the side of the car and disappears.
august		It's a breath taking sight, isn't it? Always gets me.
august		Kinko.
august		This is Jacob. He's going to bunk with you a while.
jacob		How do you do?
august		I said his name is Jacob.
august		He's going to help out in the menagerie.
august		Well there are performers.. (his hand indicates high
jacob		A Jack Russell. They're very smart.
camel		Ha, this gam of mine keeps falling asleep on me. Pretty soon the only place for me is going to be selling tickets but I'm too ugly for that.
jacob		See ya Camel.
camel		 Yeah, take care kid.
august		You'll need new clothes too. I'll set you up with the Monday Man.
jacob		Monday Man?
august		What day of the week did your mother hang out the wash to dry?
august		It's the Depression, Cornell. Where have you been? Oh right - Cornell. Kinko is bathing with his two buckets when August snatches one of them away.
jacob		August, it's all right, I'll--
jacob		August.. When August stops, Jacob is caught off guard...
august		The horse. August wants Jacob to follow him to the horse. Jacob thought he was going to bathe.
jacob		Oh! Yes...The horse. Jacob follows behind August's commanding stride.
august		I'm sure it's nothing serious. Don't tell my wife I said this but she coddles them too much. She has a particularly strong affection for Silver Star. I don't encourage it. It's unhealthy to love an animal that much...Here she is. Marlena runs up to them, still in her bed clothes/robe.
jacob		It's a pleasure to meet you. Marlena barely acknowledges Jacob - keeping their previous meeting a secret . August puts his arm around her and they kiss.
august		Last stall. Lead the way, doc. They enter the ring stock car...
august		Jesus, Marlena, he wasn't this bad in the show. Jacob moves to examine the horse, but he flinches in pain. Marlena takes over, by sitting besides Silver Star's head, and stroking his head while singing a soft lullaby. Jacob registers Marlena's soothing effect causes Silver Star to relax...his breathing grows calmer. So Jacob begins to examine him as Marlena watches protectively. Jacob runs his right hand down the leg to the fetlock. He lays his hand on the hoof then place his thumb and forefinger on the back of the fetlock. He looks at the sole of the hoof, which is bulging and dark with a red line around the edge. Jacob's expression tells us this is a bad sign.
jacob		Not yet.
august		Well, how are you going to fix it? Marlena looks at him coolly, expecting an explanation. Jacob doesn't want to tell her the truth. Jacob looks to August and rises, leaving Marlena with the horse. Jacob pulls August away to whisper.
jacob		I didn't want to say anything in front of... Mrs. Rosenbluth...he's already foundering.
august		English.
jacob		This horse isn't getting back on his feet, August. If there was anything I could do, I would but we're going to have to put him down...I'm real sorry. Beat. August's stares at Jacob - or rather, stares through him. A dead stare that lasts just a beat or two too long...And then just as suddenly, the look is gone:
august		I know you are. Come with me. August exits. Jacob doesn't know what this means. He follows.
august		Joe, bad report for Silver Star I'm afraid. Jacob here says there's no hope. We're going to have to put him down... Diamond Joe registers a concerned, anxious look to Jacob.
diamond joe		A harness what?
august		Jacob and I'll take care of the cats. We'll meet you back at the stall.
jacob		August, this stuff has gone off. Do the cats really eat this?
august		No, they really love goats.  We're all out of goats.
august		Go ahead. They get a bucket each. Apprehensive, Jacob hops up. August hands him the buckets.
jacob		What do I do, just open the door and toss it in?
august		Unless you think a formal sit-down is appropriate. Jacob approaches the tiger first. The six hundred pound cat rises then roars, his massive head hitting the cage and rattling the lose padlock. Jacob freezes.
jacob		What the hell is wrong with you? You think that's funny?
jacob		FUN! I could have lost my arm!
jacob		I don't know how he's been performing August, but you don't have a Star Act now. That horse can't walk and if he does you'll lose him. He's in a lot of pain.
august		Like this? August squeezes Jacob's sore arm from Rex's attack. Jacob cries out in pain as August holds his grip yet speaks calmly;
marlena		Tell me the truth. What's wrong with him? Jacob hesitates before answering, then:
jacob		The connective tissues between the hoof and the coffin bone are compromised and the coffin bone rotates toward the sole of the hoof. If he keeps walking, it'll puncture through...He's in a lot of pain.
marlena		And if he rests?
jacob		You'll lose him anyway. I'm sorry. Marlena breaths in this bad news and braces herself, tears welling up in her eyes.
marlena		Then you have to put him down. Jacob is impressed by her...and a little surprised.
jacob		It's the right thing to do.
marlena		But August won't let you.
jacob		 If I'm the show's vet then it's my decision, isn't it?
marlena		But August won't like it.
jacob		Then it'll be my last decision. Marlena is impressed by Jacob. And surprised. She doesn't quite know what to make of him.
camel		Hey kid. What are you doing on the wrong side of the tracks?
jacob		I need a gun.
camel		It can't be that bad... They laugh but Jacob insists boldly.
jacob		I need a gun! Or a rifle! Now! Grady leans inside the open car door and gets him a rifle. Jacob takes it and marches back. They watch him, curiously. Jacob passes Blackie on the way and boldly ignores his intimidating stance....Performers and workmen sense a drama brewing and follow Jacob to see what is happening.
kinko		What do you think you're doing?
jacob		Shut-up! Both of you! Jacob continues on to Silver Star and Marlena.
marlena		No. I'll keep him calm. Jacob respects Marlena's fortitude...Jacob raises the rifle and aims, trembling...Stoic Marlena, tears in her eyes, turns her face away...Jacob pauses, upset...then...shoots.
jacob		Friends now? August calmly enters the menagerie with the rifle. He walks to the center and stops, staring at Jacob. Jacob goes about caring for the animals - moving from one to the next - trying not to be unnerved by August's presence. Then August does a surprising thing: He sits in the center of the menagerie, crossed legged, with the rifle beside him.
august		You've got a gift for them. Like Marlena with horses. It's God- given. I can always spot it. Jacob takes Bobo out of his den. Bobo hugs him tightly. He continues on as he replies;
jacob		My father used to say that to me.
august		He must have been a wise man.
jacob		How is Marlena? August tilts his head curiously, with a smile.
august		You're a genuine curiosity Jacob Jankowski. What am I to do with you? ... I threaten to throw you off a moving train, feed you to my lions and you go ahead and shoot my star horse anyway. So I think - Jacob's an educated man. For Jacob to disobey me and shoot that horse, that horse must have been in pretty bad shape. Perhaps bad enough to injure my Marlena during the show. And so I think Jacob Jankowski might be a valuable person to have around.
jacob		Tell Diamond Joe the animals need more water when the humidity's this bad if I don't see him before I go.
august		You're not going anywhere. You belong here. These animals..they've been waiting for you. Jacob doesn't know whether to believe him or not. Then:
jacob		What problem? August lights, inhales, blows smoke then:
august		The cats. You see, meat eaters are always more valuable to a circus than hay burners. And you saw what we had to feed them.
jacob		What does Silver Star have to do with the cats?
august		We should have just enough food for them to get us to the next show, thanks to you. Of course Marlena won't speak to me for a day or two but she'll come around...So, I was right. You are a valuable man. As he walks away, rifle over his arm, Jacob is unnerved;
jacob		August, what did you do? August?
jacob		Why are we stopping?
kinko		August loves his sideshow freaks. There's a guy with this outfit who has a parasitic twin growing out of his chest. He dresses it in a tiny tuxedo and black patent leather shoes. No talent but a real money- maker with the rubes. Calls himself the Man and a Half. Goddamn August'll pay him double what he pays me just for the irony.
jacob		What happened to this circus?
kinko		Went belly up. Pretty common nowadays. Circus bosses see the end coming and they'd pull a runner with all the money. Menagerie belongs to the town now. August can get anything he wants for a song. Jacob and Kinko watch August striding through the grounds as desperate performers hopeful for work rush up to him.
august		We have a new star!
diamond joe		The Man and a Half?
august		Nah, lousy Ringling got here first. But we got better! A bull!
jacob		A bull?
august		A bull elephant! Her name is Rosie, she's fifty-three and she's brilliant. The best bull they had. I'm going to come up with a whole new Star Act around her and Marlena..
crazy joe		Just for the elephant! But the bunkers are at capacity! I've got roustabouts three to a bunk. August tosses off this concern.
august		We'll find places for everyone. And when our new star sells tickets, we'll buy another car! We're a show to be reckoned with now!
jacob		She has such long eye lashes.
diamond joe		She's a hundred if she's a day. We're lucky if she can move.
august		Darling, what do you think? She's magnificent, isn't she? Marlena keeps her rage silent, but it is all the more potent. August decides to ignore it. Jacob keeps his eyes on Rosie but feels the tension between them. ROSIE'S CARETAKER approaches: filthy shirt behind suspenders.
rosie's caretaker		You the bull man?
august		No.  This is my menagerie man.
rosie's caretaker		Where's your bull man? Ya got no bull man, I gotta tell the township or else they can't sell her to ya. August grabs Jacob's arm and shoves him forward;
august		Here he is. He's my bull man.. Rosie's Caretaker looks at the surprised Jacob, then:
rosie's caretaker		All right. See this animal...this here's the stupidest Goddamn animal on the face of God's good earth....Here's your bull hook. You're gonna need it. He tosses A BULL HOOK - a wooden rod about three feet long with a four inch metal pick coming off the end - to Jacob.
august		I don't believe it. The mayor said she was the best bull you had.
rosie's caretaker		If she was the best bull, why is she the only one left? You think you're the first show to turn up picking on the bones? August is annoyed. As the Caretaker gathers his things:
august		Joe, you and Greg come with me. We have to find a car to renovate.
jacob		Mrs. Rosenbluth, I hope I'm not speaking out of turn here but - but I had no idea they were going to do that to Silver Star.
marlena		I know....Thank you. This relaxes Jacob, but he senses she is still sad.
jacob		Hello Rosie, I'm Jacob Jankowski. This is Mrs. Marlena Rosenbluth. Can you say Mrs. Marlena Rosenbluth? Marlena smiles as she watches Jacob stroke Rosie's hide.
marlena		I think you two are engaged. They laugh. Jacob is thrilled to have this effect on Marlena. A HARMONICA PLAYS A TUNE in the distance. They turn towards the sound and see that the two of them are alone in the tent. All the workmen have left. Jacob and Marlena turn back to Rosie who stands between them. There is a awkward, lovely moment of intimacy between the three as Marlena strokes Rosie's trunk. Her hand and Jacob's come very close to overlapping. When their eyes meet, one of them quickly averts their glance...There is clearly a growing attraction between them. But it's uncomfortable.
jacob		I'm confessin that I love you. Marlena stops, her face flushed by Jacob's "confession".
marlena		What?
jacob		The name of the song. "I'm Confessin' That I Love You."
marlena		 --"Confessin' that I love you." Beat. Jacob tries not to laugh. They return to stroking Rosie, trying not to look at each other.
jacob marlena		Louis Armstrong. Right.
kinko		Queenie stop. Queenie stops. Kinko returns to his book. Jacob sees a NEW BED ROLL AND PILLOW, upon which sits a LETTER. He reads it:
jacob		What is it?
kinko		It's trouble, that's what. Not that I give a damn, but you're playing with dynamite with those two and you're gonna blow all of us up. August is the meanest sonofabitch I've ever met.
jacob		I admit he has his moments of insanity but he's really a very generous, charming guy.
kinko		You don't get it, do you? When August feeds your arm to a lion - that's the real August. The one who's generous and charming - that's the insane August. They hear a fight outside the car. They move to investigate:
kinko		Six men got red lit last night. Cancelling shows and that damn elephant cost August. He needed to clean house to save on payroll... It's a lousy day when an animal gets paid and men don't.
jacob		Why are they beating him?
kinko		He hid one of the men who was supposed to be tossed. Word was the train was over a trestle instead of land. Nobody comes back from that.
august		Get rid of him. He comes back on my property, you can shoot him. August walks away, with Earl and his men in tow. Blackie and his men drag the beaten Man away. As they turn, Jacob recognizes the Man; It is WADE who worked Jacob on his first day.
august		JACOB! Come in, come in! Jacob enters their Stateroom which takes up half the car, with an additional room, cordoned off by a velvet curtain. The main room is paneled in walnut and outfitted with damask furniture, a dinette and a Pullman kitchen.
marlena		I'm so glad you could come. Would you like a beer? Or champagne?
jacob		I'm not dressed for champagne.
august		We can fix that, can't we darling? August winks at Marlena who giggles at their secret as August ushers Jacob to the velvet curtain...
marlena		People don't realize how much August does holding everything together. How difficult it is in these times. The whole company is like a family to him.
august		Thank you my love. He kisses her hand then turns to Jacob;
jacob		Of course I do, August. You've been nothing but swell to me.
august		Good man!
jacob		I have to tell you something. You may not trust me after you hear it. August and Marlena pause - giving Jacob their attention.
august		BAH! A worthless piece of paper from the ivy bush league! Of course you're a vet. You have the gift. You're idealism is just so...sweet. When are you going to learn that the rules written of, by and for these united states of suckers do not apply to us.
jacob		Not about this, August.
august		All right, let me ask you - do you honestly think this is the most spectacular show on earth?
jacob		 No.
august		No. It's nowhere near. Lucinda, our Fat Lady, isn't 800 pounds. Four at the tops. And you really think the Tattooed Man got tattooed by headhunters in Borneo? He's from Pittsburgh. Took him nine years to ink himself. And you know what I did when the hippo died? Swapped out her water for formaldehyde and kept showing her. For two weeks, we travelled with a pickled hippo..
jacob		To Rosie!
marlena		And Silver Star. August takes a beat and smiles warmly at Marlena...
august		To all we love. He leans over and kisses Marlena longer than appropriate in front of a guest. Jacob downs his wine, closing his eyes. Suddenly, August grabs Jacob and Marlena and pulls them up to dance, throwing his arm around them both as we hear: Louis Armstrong's DREAM A LITTLE DREAM OF ME. August starts singing along, imitating Satchmo's voice, encouraging Jacob to join in...August is a great performer, filling up the space with his impersonation. Jacob can only laugh along.
marlena		Darling. Darling, please..
jacob		Is everything all right? Marlena puts a finger to lip and keeps it there, as she returns to her Victrola and selects another record. She cranks it on and plays it low. A RUTH ETTING SONG.
marlena		Oh yes. He's just had too much to drink, that's all. I hope you had a good time tonight. I wanted so much to make things up to you.
jacob		Tonight was your idea?
marlena		Oh Auggie wanted it too, he felt horrible about what happened. He really does like you Jacob. But it's hard for him. He's under a lot of pressure. He does more than people realize holding things together.
jacob		You said that.
marlena		Well it's true...  One dance before you go? Jacob cautiously approaches. Marlena takes his hands but when Jacob presses closely against her and places his hand against her bare back, he almost swoons. They slow dance. Both tipsy.
jacob		What happened at 17?
marlena		There was a parade for the circus. At the head, there were six black Fresians, 17 hands high wearing red tassles. So proud! So beautiful. And August was leading them. The second he looked at me, the way he looked at me, I knew I'd never live with strangers again. And the way he talked. Told me "I'd find a home in every city..welcomed in every town...and he'd give me--
jacob		He was pretty lucky to find you. Marlena is surprised by the compliment...and endeared.
marlena		You're sweet to say so. Beat. Feeling exposed, Jacob searches to change the subject:
jacob		Pretty song.
marlena		Don't tell him what happened... Jacob takes this as an intimate moment between them.
jacob		Oh no Marlena, I won't ever tell. Marlena smiles, laughs, using Jacob's joke back on him;
marlena		That's the name of the song. "Don't Tell Him What Happened To Me". Ruth Etting. She's one of my favorites. Jacob's head starts spinning. Marlena takes care of him;
jacob		I have no idea.
marlena		Maybe you should go to bed.
marlena		Here, let me...We can't let you go out there all untied. A circus is a small town. What will people say? As Marlena ties his tie, Jacob's eyes simply rest on Marlena's face - sinking deeper in love. When Marlena finishes, she looks up to Jacob...She can tell Jacob is enamoured. She smiles warmly, touching his cheek...
marlena		 Good night. Marlena turns and disappears behind the velvet curtain. Jacob stands still for a moment, then exits.
kinko		JACOB MY FRIEND!! Folks, this is my friend and roommate Jacob. I'd like you all to make him feel at home! Kinko starts laughing uncontrollably and before Jacob can protest or escape, Barbara and Nell approach him, moving in for the kill. Blurry-eyed, Jacob staggers back but the others refuse to let him leave. In fact, he is picked up bodily, raised above their heads and transported to Silver Star's empty stall as Barbara and Nell disrobe him.
kinko		Where are you right now or where are you in an Aristotelean context because right now you're in a trunk. Inside the trunk, O.S. Jacob lifts his arm to Camera and discovers he is dressed in a red silk dressing gown...
kinko		Huh-huh. As Jacob struggles out of the trunk, we only see his arms.
kinko		You threw up on Barbara...And maybe Nell.
kinko		You look a little pale. Kinko holds the mirror to Jacob. We see for the first time:
kinko		Your balls itchy?
kinko		It'll grow back. Aw come on, you still store about last night? Now I figure we're even. In fact, I probably owe you one. Feel free to borrow a book.
jacob		Let's just drop it. Kinko opens a book to read. Jacob notices Queenie's quiet.
kinko		What do you mean "wrong"?
jacob		I mean she's not hating me. Something's wrong.
kinko		 Yeah, she's been like this all day. I don't know...she must have eaten something. She did her business and it was kind of...watery.
jacob		Her stool? Did you look at it for parasites?
jacob		Get some honey from the cookhouse. And if you can find any slippery elm powder. But the honey should do it. If not, we'll check her for parasites. Jacob starts to exit. As Kinko reads his book;
kinko		Jacob?
jacob		Sure Kinko. He moves to exit again. Kinko never looks up from book;
kinko		Jacob?
jacob		Yeah.
kinko		My real name's Walter. They never look at each other but a friendship is formed. Jacob exits.
august		We got big trouble. Lucinda died. Now we've got no center ring star act and no sideshow star...
jacob		How did she die?
august		I don't care where you find one, but find one.  Better get some kind of rig set up to lift her out of the car. How did you carry Silver Star out?
diamond joe		In pieces.
august		Oh yes...  Mmmm...
jacob		August!
august		No, no, of course, don't be silly! Right. Well, figure something else out Joe but get it down for the performance. Put her in the hippo tank for now.
jacob		Rosie...Up. Rosie just looks at him without moving.
jacob		Does everybody know what happened?
august		Yes.
jacob		Can somebody tell me? August suppresses a laugh.
august		I'm opening the midway and the menagerie this afternoon for some extra cash before the show tomorrow night. We'll see how she does with the crowd. She got any skills?
jacob		Finding food? But I don't really know how to do this.
august		Well, first of all, you can't do anything with a bull without the bull hook. August takes the BULL HOOK from the ground.
jacob		August, there's got to be another way.
august		We don't have the time! She has to start earning her keep MOVE! UP!
jacob		Please, August, let me try again. But August angrily pulls it away and turns on Jacob:
august		Don't tell me my business! You don't want to watch this, get the hell out! Making love to it ain't going to work. Besides, from what I hear, you're not that good at it.
jacob		I'm so sorry girl. Just a few more here. Hold still. The un-staked canvas flaps behind Rosie wave up with the breeze....Rosie's trunk rises. She smells something from outside the tent. When Jacob bends down for more ointment, Rosie tries to turn around but her chain is still staked into the ground. As Jacob straightens up, he sees: Rosie's trunk carefully wrap itself around the stake and pull it up out of the ground....She then manages to turn herself around, her butt to Jacob. Rosie's trunk then dives down and up under the canvas flaps.
jacob		But as soon as the Spec started, we all knew it was too soon for Rosie's debut. Rosie heads the line. Marlena sits atop her, in her sequins and headdress, grabbing onto Rosie's leather halter.
marlena		Oh Jacob... August rushes out and is stopped cold by the sight of Marlena in Jacob's arms. He immediately tenses up.
jacob		August, she's hurt. August takes her in his arms. Barbara appears to help.
august		I'm here, darling, I've got you.
barbara		Bring her to my tent, it's closer.
august		Jacob, send Joe for ice. You go and find that Goddamn bull before we're run out town. And take the hook! August is seething, his expression cold, as he carries Marlena O.S. Jacob, concerned, takes the hook and runs O.S.
jacob		I'm sorry ma'am. I'll get her.
old woman		You better before she gets at my --
jacob		Rosie, no! Stop! Rosie pauses for a moment, flapping her ears at Jacob, then shoves a bush of tomatoes in her mouth. Jacob almost laughs.
jacob		What's in the bucket?
greg		Gin and ginger ale. Elephants love booze. One whiff of this and she's not thinking about cabbages no more.  ... moj malutki paczuszek?
jacob		Greg, right? Are you Polish?
greg		Grabowski.
jacob		Jankowski. Greg again pushes Rosie's trunk away from the bucket.
greg		Last show I worked, one bull faked a belly ache just to get the whiskey...Better grab the hook.
jacob		Are you a bull man? August would hire you in a minute.
greg		Don't want the job. Not for him. Besides, I'm not bull man. I just like big beasts. Jacob gets it and follows Greg who carries the bucket.
jacob		How's Marlena?
august		A little shaky. Sore wrists. Bruised heel. Doc says she'll be fine. Did you catch the bull?
jacob		She's in the menagerie.
august		Good. August takes the bull hook from Jacob and walks with cold blooded intent towards the menagerie. Jacob panics, realizing what August about to do. Jacob follows to stop him;
jacob		August! Wait! She was good! She came back on her own! Besides, you can't do anything now! The show is still going on.
august		Get her out of here! NOW! Jacob wants to help Rosie but can not disobey August in this moment. He returns to Marlena and ushers her out, as August continues to beat Rosie.
jacob		Rosie, what am I going to do with you? Rosie's eyes look up to him, her lashes blinking. Her trunk lifts and wipes at her own eye.
greg		Here this will help. Poor beast. He really hurt her. Told you about him.  Don't understand why a man like that wants to be around animals in the first place. He shouldn't have the right, if you ask me. Listening to Greg, Jacob gets increasingly angry. He sees the bull hook. He grabs it and marches out of the menagerie.
earl's man		Somebody better find Earl.
jacob		No....What happened?
august		She won't speak to me... He can't finish. He sits, burying his head in his hands.
jacob		I'm sure that's not true.
august		Maybe you can talk to her. She's tired of my apologies but, this pressure I'm under...Of course, that's no excuse for what I did...  ...I can't believe what I did. Is she all right? The bull. Rosie.
jacob		She'll be OK.
august		Would you tell Marlena? And tell her...tell her I'll do anything. Anything she wants.
jacob		August, I can't...
august		Thank you. My friend. Jacob nods, confused, his anger diffused. As he exits;
earl		What's going on?
august		Everything's fine, Earl. August nods to Jacob, who pushes past Earl to exit.
jacob		How's she doing?
greg		Oh she's a strong one, this one.
jacob		Is she drunk?
jacob		Oh my God...
jacob		Just read those out loud. To Rosie. August reads the words in Polish with Jacob's help...
august		Rosie...da--da---
jacob		Daj.
august		Daj...daj..no-ge. Rosie does nothing. August looks to Jacob. Jacob is worried. Greg suggests, in a low whisper;
greg		Might help if he said please.
jacob		Say...Prosze Rosie daj noge.
august		Pros--Prozze Rosie...daj noge. Rosie lifts her foot. August's eyes gleam.
jacob		Go on.
august		 Rosie...potoz noge. Rosie puts her foot down. August starts to understand.
august		We've got a new star! Greg remains cautious.
august		Would you like to dance, darling?
marlena		No, thank you. Awkward beat. Marlena takes her champagne glass and drinks the last of it. August tries to make light of it.
august		We need more champagne.
jacob		I'll get it.
august		No, you stay with Marlena. August kisses her cheek, but Marlena is clearly still upset. August lets her be. He exits O.S.
jacob		You ever going to let him off the hook?
marlena		Hook? That's an unfortunate choice of words.
jacob		Rosie's going be great. He won't hurt her again. I know it.
marlena		Jacob, what you know about August is pretty much nothing.
jacob		Maybe you should wait for August.
marlena		I want to dance now! She pulls him up onto the dance floor. Marlena dances light as air. She spins from Jacob then returns to his arms, so that her back is to him. Jacob's forearm is on her collarbone - skin to skin. Her chest rises and falls under his arm. Her hair under his chin, Jacob can smell her fragrance - then she unwinds away from, like a ribbon. When the music stops, everyone applauds their dance - including Marlena. Jacob beams. He looks up to the bar: August stands stock still. His eyes glaring at Jacob. The dark expression we've come to know. Seething with quiet rage. Jacob takes a step back from Marlena when suddenly they hear;
marlena		Lord, that was close...Aw, look at my stockings! And they're silk too.
jacob		I wonder if August got out... Marlena looks up at Jacob and starts laughing hysterically, as if for no reason. They are both still drunk.
marlena		I want to see the Empire State Building.
jacob		What...what about August?
marlena		I don't know where he is, do you? And he doesn't know where we are. It's not our fault. Like you said, who knows how long it'll take us to get back. Jacob is hesitant. Marlena takes his hand and softly pleads;
marlena		I've never seen so far. Have you?  Look at it. As far as the eye can see and it's nowhere near all that's out there. Jacob notices tears in her eyes.
jacob		Are you all right?
aaahahahaahaaahaaaaa ahaahahahahaahahahahah		The other couples leave the sky deck to get out of the rain and away from "that crazy couple". Marlena and Jacob stop, wet, panting, laughing from the release. Then, looking out at the view, not at each other...
marlena		I want you to go. I want you get away from us, from the show. You're smart Jacob. You deserve better than us. Leave as soon as you can or something terrible's going to happen.
jacob		 Why are you saying this?
marlena		It's all right. No one can hear. We'll never get another chance to say it all. Marlena looks into Jacob's eyes and finally addresses what they're both thinking;
jacob		How can you be with a man you're frightened of?
marlena		I'm not. I don't have to feel afraid of him if I don't feel anything...After all these years, I've learned how to do it so well. I tell myself, "I'm managing. I can manage him. August loves me. Nobody else ever did. Who am I to say it's the wrong kind of love?" .. See, there's no place for a woman like me in any decent kind of world. You know where they found me when I was a baby? ...
jacob		I'm not that good. And I don't want to be.
marlena		Don't say that.
jacob		No, I don't. Good men don't wind up with much in the end except their goodness. Isn't worth much, is it?
jacob		You deserve as good a life any other girl.
marlena		Am I still a girl? I feel so old. They kiss. They stop and silently acknowledge where this is going. As they move towards a secluded spot, they continue to kiss in between lines;
jacob		I understand.
marlena		Promise me you'll suffer.
jacob		I already am.
marlena		Promise you'll look in my eyes the whole time.
jacob		I promise. Jacob kisses her with his eyes locked onto hers...With Marlena's back pressed against the entrance, Jacob reaches up and locks the door. They sink to the ground.
jacob		If I had money, if I could take care of you, would we be going back?
marlena		You'd have to be a Rockefeller... August would find me. He always does.
jacob		Have you tried to get away before?
marlena		Jacob you promised. You said you understood it was only tonight.
jacob		I know. I do....I'm sorry.
marlena		Where were you when I was 17? Jacob smiles. They kiss not wanting to let go. Marlena pulls away and runs into the cab. Jacob watches it drive away.
walter		Why are you sleeping here? Somebody's looking for you.
camel		Hey kid. How nice to see ya.
jacob		Hey, Camel. What's wrong?
camel		I don't know, kid. Woke up a few days ago and my feet was all floppy. Jes can't feel'em right...
walter		Like down there...man stuff? Camel, his eyes wide and fearful, nods slowly.
bill		What's wrong with him, doc?
jacob		I don't know.
walter		Jamaica ginger paralysis. Jake leg. I've seen it before.
camel		No such thing. Is there Doc? Walter looks at Camel's empty "Jake" bottle.
walter		The manufacturer started putting this plasticizer in it, or something, to get around regulations that Jamaica ginger extract not be sold as booze.
camel		Well what the hell am I supposed to drink to stop the shakes? It's Prohibition and I ain't no Astor.
grady		It's OK Camel. Tomorrow's payday. We'll get you some moonshine.
bill		Grady don't lie to the man. If men were getting paid, Blackie wouldn't have tossed four of "em between Boonton and Weehawken.
jacob		Four?...Will he get better?
bill		We can't leave him here. They'll red light him for sure. Jacob understands. He gets an idea and turns to Walter. Walter understands and reacts with an adamant:
jacob		Walter, please. Blackie and his men only patrol the roustabout cars. They don't work the performer train. We can hide him easy until-
walter		I was right about you. You're going blow us all up...August got home tonight before you and Marlena. People are talking. Walter stalks off leaving Jacob unhinged by the news.
jacob		Good morning.
marlena		Good morning Jacob, how are you? Marlena smiles. Jacob senses others eavesdropping...but the table is far enough away, so they can't be heard.
jacob		I wanted to, uh...Is there any chance I could speak with you alone?
marlena		About what? Is something wrong?
jacob		No, I...I just wanted to...Walter said people are talking about what happened...last night...
jacob		Well, I want to apologize for--
marlena		Ha,ha Jacob, it's silly of you to apologize for my torn stockings. You weren't even there. Jacob is crushed by her reaction. Marlena maintains her upbeat facade. August enters with his tray of food and crosses to them. He is smiling like a man who has spent the night having great sex. August kisses Marlena right in front of Jacob. It is a long sensual kiss...a holdover from their night together.
august		I slept like a baby after last night. Thank you my darling.
marlena		August, please. We're in public. Jacob understands his meaning and is quietly devastated.
jacob		I don't know. I just ran.
marlena		I told you, sweetheart. We got pushed apart by the crowd. This older married couple brought me to the ferry.
august		I'd like to look them up and invite them to the show free of charge...
august		..It's a family. And like any family, when a new member is born, it's arrival must be greeted with celebration and gratitude. Now, we've been a little busy with sold out performances, thank the Gods..
jacob		Thank you, August.
august		It's from both of us. Jacob looks to Marlena. It is awkward between them. They can't kiss each other. Jacob nods and says courteously;
jacob		Thank you, Marlena.
marlena		You're welcome, Jacob. As Marlena exits with the others, we discover August watching from them a distance; August's expression tells us he knows what they are hiding.
marlena		I wonder if you could help me.
jacob		Sure.
jacob		No problem.
marlena		Thank you so much...Oh, and I'm sure it would be nice for August if you were there too. Marlena turns and exits O.S. Jacob isn't sure what to think.
marlena		Oh, he'll be here any second. Jacob, can you open this for me? Jacob takes the champagne bottle and manipulates the cork. Rosie's trunk is curious, inspecting the bottle in Jacob's hand. Jacob laughs. Marlena sees and laughs as well.
jacob		Rosie...get away....ssstop!! Rosie continues fooling around, causing Marlena and Jacob to laugh even harder when the cork pops...
august		Did you show Jacob the opening night present I gave you? Marlena turns to Jacob and indicates the diamond necklace.
marlena		 Oh. No...Do you see Jacob?
jacob		Beautiful.
august		It looks stunning on you.
marlena		To August - an authentic miracle man because he made a star attraction out of me.
jacob		To August! August nods in gratitude. They tilt their glasses and drink.
august		Many thanks. Forgive me for arriving too soon and spoiling the surprise. August takes out a cigarette and lights it.
marlena		Don't be silly. I couldn't wait for you to come.
august		I could go back out to give you more time...or better yet, yell RAID and clear the place out so you two can be alone. In a split second, Jacob and Marlena know the danger present. August gave no sign of it coming.
marlena		What?
august		I'm sorry. I'm probably wrong. I assumed that night after the RAID was the first time you two fucked, but obviously it's been going on longer than that.
marlena		Auggie, you're being silly.
august		Did you think I didn't know?
marlena		August don't do this!
august		Shut-up. SHUT UP!
marlena		August, please, there's nothing-
jacob		We should go!
august		WE!...So you two are a couple?
jacob		NO! I just don't think you're safe to be around a woman right now.
august		A woman? This is not a woman. This is my wife you Ivy League lying piece of shit! Say, I bet the authorities would like to know you practise without a license.
marlena		Auggie, please... Don't you see how much I love you?
august		I see you. I see you too clearly. Always have. I have to admit that was a nice touch when you got back from the speakeasy. Being with me in our bed, after being with him. Covering your tracks. I should have known a whore only performs for a man like that when she wants something.
jacob		Marlena, come with me...
earl		No he won't, kid. Come on. Earl disperses the crowd that has gathered, which includes Walter, who sees Jacob's bloodied face and goes to him. FROM INSIDE THE TENT, THEY HEAR: Two soft thuds..then a louder one...Then an unnerving silence.
walter		Come on Jacob. Walk away. With Walter's help, he tears his eyes from the billowing flap and walks away, passing rubes who watch with fascination.
walter		The only thing that's keeping you alive right now are the rubes who saw everything. August can't risk getting rid of you here. But you better not get back on this train when we leave tomorrow night.
walter		Shut-up Camel.
walter		August.
jacob		Why are we moving? We have a matinee tomorrow.
walter		Something's gone wrong. SUDDENLY, A KNOCK ON THE DOOR. The three men immediately are on alert. Walter grabs his knife from beneath his pillow. Camel tries to shove himself behind the trunks. THE KNOCK COMES AGAIN as we hear:
jacob		My God. Are you all right?
marlena		Looks worse than it feels.  Ha, look at the two of us. Marlena awkwardly enters the room to Walter and Camel's stares. She sees the moonshine and breaks the ice.
walter		Why is the train moving? Marlena sits with the jug, casually talking:
marlena		We're being run out. Apparently, August was so optimistic about money coming in for Rosie, he figured he'd double down and find himself a new fat lady to put him really toe to toe with Ringling...So he sent Mr. Erwin into town who finds this rather large woman in a restaurant and offers her the job. Except, she...
walter		Aw girl. We're all in it now.
marlena		Why are you hiding that roustabout?
jacob		Because Blackie and his men don't work the performer train and they'll red-light him if they find him. He can't work anymore.
marlena		My God.
jacob		Does August know where you are?
marlena		No. He thinks I'm with Barbara and the girls. He won't go there.
jacob		He can't find you. As soon as we stop - before we stop - we'll jump off and I'll take you to a hotel in town.
marlena		And after that? August has all our money. Where will I go?
jacob		Marlena, I'm not leaving you. We'll find a way together. I won't let you go back to him. I promise. Marlena smiles, needing to hear him say those words. She embraces him, grateful. Jacob holds her tight, assuring;
marlena		Oh Jacob, that would be wonderful. You know, I bet Ringling would take us both then - they'd be getting a vet and a star attraction - that's a sweet deal for them. Although I won't be a star but I don't care. I'll take no billing at all...We'd be safe from August if we were with Ringling.
jacob		Don't worry about him.
marlena		Of course, I'd have to wait a while until I can work again...
jacob		What do you mean?
marlena		Jacob...I'm going to have a baby. Jacob is stunned...then confused...
jacob		Change my mind??? Oh Marlena, please...please be happy.
marlena		 I will...I promise...as soon as I stop being terrified. Jacob kisses her. He guides her to the ground, against the hay. She nestles in his arms.
jacob		Rest...I've got you now. Marlena tries, closing her eyes.....Then, without warning;
barbara		Poor Kid...Help me with him..
jacob		 Don't you work the matinee?
tattooed man		Not today. I'm fading. I gotta re- ink.
barbara		Don't talk. Jacob nods. They cover him, pick him up and carry him off.
jacob		Marlena!!
walter		Sshh. Lie back.
jacob		Where is she? Did he hurt her?
walter		I don't know. Your pupils are two different sizes. Jacob pushes himself up onto his elbows but his world spins.
jacob		I have to get Marlena. What if he--
walter		Jacob, look at me. You've got a concussion and you're on a moving train. There's nothing you can do. Marlena can handle him. She's done it for years...
jacob		I have to get her.
walter		Jacob, you can't.
jacob		She's going to have a baby. Walter is stopped. Camel shakes his head.
walter		Does August know?  What have you done to us?
jacob		We're going to Ringling. Me, Marlena. You can too.
walter		I'm a fifth rate clown when second rate circuses are folding all over the place. Doesn't put me on top of Ringling's list. They've got a dozen of me in the wings. I couldn't even go if I wanted to. August won't pay anyone. Says the show's debts have to come first. First time in Benzini Bros history performers haven't been paid. People are starving out there, Jacob. In the United States of America. Starving. Where am I going to go?
camel		What about family? Like my son. Gotta have somebody...a mother.
walter		Not a woman I have any use for. She's sold me to this outfit when I
camel		She sold you?
walter		I'm not exactly cut out for farm work. Don't worry about me..
jacob		Do whatever you have to, Walter.
walter		You too, Jacob. They exchange a final look, which is a goodbye. Walter turns away from Jacob, holding Queenie to his chest. Camel looks compassionately at Jacob and says:
camel		Ya poor kid. The night this train passed ya...you shoulda kept on running, I guess.
jacob		Walter? Camel?
jacob		I'm not here to cause any trouble. I'm leaving.
august		Funny, I thought you already left.
jacob		I'd like to say goodbye. To the menagerie. Just a few minutes and then I'll go. August's eyes narrow. Earl waits for the outcome.
august		Earl, take him to the menagerie. Thirty seconds. Then escort him out of my circus, into Altoona. And if he comes back, you can shoot him, as that is within our lawful rights with regards to trespassers. August walks away. Earl escorts Jacob to the menagerie. On the way, they pass Barbara. Jacob pauses to hand Queenie to her. She has tears in her eyes. Jacob continues with Earl.
earl		Come on kid. When Jacob starts to exit again, something happens:
earl		It's good you're going. They must have known you got back on the train last night. He tossed more than half a dozen working men.
jacob		Walter! Is he---? Instantly, Earl's expression tells Jacob it's bad news. Jacob's breathing almost stops as he listens;
earl		Keep walking...They got tossed off the trestle, if you can believe it. Camel's head hit the rocks. He died right away... Jacob is heartbroken and dreads what he's about to hear. Earl pauses for a beat...this part is harder to tell:
jacob		Why are you telling me? Earl can not find the words: it's clear the killing of these men does not sit well with him.
earl		Oh Christ! Oh Shit... Earl runs back towards the Big Top.
jacob		What is it?
earl		The Disaster March! Everyone with the show barrels towards the Big Top when Greg appears amongst them and calls to Jacob:
sheriff		...These animals are now the property of Altoona and we're here to sell them to Mr. Nesci.
jacob		Not all of them! Some of these animals are mine, like this bull.
dick nesci		Do you have any proof? Jacob is stalled. Greg appears.
greg		He's right. He's just an elephant tramp. The bull is his.
jacob		You don't want her anyway. She can't do anything. Dumb as a box of peanut shells. Skeptical, Dick Nesci steps up to Rosie.
dick nesci		What's her name?
jacob		Gertrude. Jacob and Rosie exchange eye contact. Nesci is skeptical.
dick nesci		Gertrude! Gertrude, step up! UP! Rosie blows and swings her trunk, throwing dirt across the people around her. Dick Nesci takes the bull hook and prods under her leg, ordering her UP! Rosie just swings her ears and sniffs Dick Nesci with her trunk. Then checks his pockets for treats. Jacob exchanges a look with Rosie.
marlena		What happens now?
jacob		I wish I knew. Marlena exhausted, eases into Jacob's arms. It's over. WIDE ANGLE: Jacob and Marlena and their animals, as the giant tent of the Benzini Bros. Big Top falls to the ground.
jacob		I convinced my dean to let me take my finals. Marlena was right. With my degree, our animals and Marlena's acts, Ringling got a sweet deal. Our son was born our first season. We named him Walter. He spent the first seven years of his life with Ringling.
charlie		It's the heat.
jacob		They're here for me. Charlie and Jacob exchange a look. Charlie understands.
charlie		Hi Officer, can I help you?
cop		Yes, I'm hoping you can. An elderly gentleman went missing from the nursing home down the street. Staff seems to think he came here.
charlie		We had a lot of folks from the home today. But no, I haven't seen him. The Cop peers past Charlie and sees Jacob.
cop		Excuse me, but who is that?
charlie		 Oh....that's my Dad. The Cop is suspicious. Charlie covers:
cop		OK, well, thanks for your time. Here's my number in case you hear of anything. Sorry to bother you. The Cop exits. Charlie returns to sit opposite Jacob. They consider this unspoken proposal:
jacob		You sure about this? Beat as Charlie pours another shot. Then:
charlie		I wonder if we can get you into the book of records. "Oldest man who ever ran away with the circus".
jacob		Nah, I'm not running away. Just coming home.
jacob		Thank you, Ma'am.
****Dialogues from script :Way_Back.txt****

valka		Polish tailor. He shows the label.
bohdan		For the bread.
valka		Come here. SMITH returns the stare, then slowly approaches.
andrei		Take the coat.
valka		I want the sweater. ANDREI doesn't move.
andrei		You have no authority, here. VALKA gets up, moves slowly to ANDREI, a smile on his lips. Then he casually reaches down as if to tuck his trousers deeper into his boots, reaches for something, and in one slow balletic movement, swings up and stretches out his hand to ANDREI, and ANDREI sobs and leans to one side.
bohdan		Was that really necessary? In the dim light ANDREI's face is grey as he sags to the floor. None of the other prisoners move to help him, nor do they show any sign of concern, as VALKA places the knife back in his boot and returns to the game. YURI steps forward and strips the sweater from the dead man, handing it on to VALKA, who passes it to BOHDAN. BOHDAN examines it professionally, wipes a little blood off his hands.
khabarov		Here he is. He reaches out to touch a human toe poking out of the rocks. As they work - Close on the face of ANDREI, as they continue to uncover his body.
lazar		Damn! Picked clean! Bloody thieves.
khabarov		Keep your voice down, be grateful there's anything left. They reach into the grave to retrieve the underwear.
commandant		Enemies of the People! Look about you...and understand... it is not our guns, or our dogs, or our wire, that forms your prison. Siberia is your prison. All four million square miles of it. Here in Camp 105, you will work hard. Work and you eat. Eat and you live. Close on JANUSZ and his friends.
smith		I'm an old man. But I'll be alive in the morning. He won't. He goes to move away, hesitates, turns back to JANUSZ.
janusz		American? He looks back to SMITH walking away toward the barracks.
khabarov		Stalin doesn't like foreigners. That includes Poles. You are Polish aren't you? JANUSZ still staring after SMITH.
janusz		Yes, I am.
khabarov		I love you Poles, your burning sense of injustice, your yearning for freedom. .
janusz		Weiszczek, Janusz.
khabarov		And your 'prayer', may I ask?
janusz		That's what they told me.
khabarov		Ten years?
janusz		Twenty. KHABAROV indicates himself.
khabarov		58.14. Sabotage, ten years. They begin walking toward the distant barrack buildings.
khabarov		Oh there's that Polish spirit! I observe things - your demeanor, your, may I say, certain 'swagger'. 'Cavalryman', that's how I'd cast you. He leans forward, whispers.
janusz		How could we know Russia would stab us in the back?
khabarov		And you were on the Soviet side of the line, and they arrest you, and thousands like you. Accuse you of spying-And they torture you? You signed a 'confession'?
janusz		I wouldn't sign, so they tortured someone else.
khabarov		Usual tactics - they torture a close friend who names you as a spy - a neighbor? Your old school teacher? A friend?
janusz		Why?
khabarov		It was claimed I was elevating the status of the old nobility.
janusz		You got ten years for a performance in a film?
khabarov		I've had better notices. And they enter their hut.
khabarov		The 'Urki'.
janusz		Who are they?
khabarov		Professional criminals, your ordinary run of the mill murderers and thieves, don't stare at them. The guards let them run things in here. They are to be feared.
janusz		Why would they let them 'run things'?
khabarov		They are considered the by-product of bourgeoisie society and therefore 'Friends of the People'. We political prisoners are 'Enemies of the People'. Russia has become one vast prison - slave labor. You see even this camp is expanding to take in another thousand prisoners. JANUSZ looks over to a group of Asiatic prisoners.
janusz		And do any ever wriggle out of the net? KHABAROV considers a moment, then leads him away from the surrounding prisoners. He lowers his voice to a whisper.
khabarov		You should be more careful. Stalin has eyes and ears everywhere, even in here. He leans closer to JANUSZ.
janusz		And how long have you been here?
khabarov		Eleven months and twenty-nine days. KHABAROV offers his hand.
khabarov		Cut last year and never collected! Quickly hide them inside your fresh cut timber! BOHDAN moving closer. It becomes a race to transport all the old logs to their pile and to conceal them inside the fresh cut logs.
janusz		He knows. KHABAROV shrugs.
khabarov		He knows, but he doesn't care, as long as his arse is protected. This is 'Tufta'. Bull-shit. JANUSZ nods his thanks.
tomasz		You want me to make a sketch of you?
valka		No. Not me. TOMASZ puzzled.
bohdan		Keep going and you'll get some bread - so how does this 'Long John Silver' find the treasure?
yuri		I knew a type like that. Remember Igor? He had one leg.
bohdan		Shut up.  Go on. The story resumes, ZORAN giving it all he's got, when VALKA appears a sketch in his hand. He passes it to BOHDAN. CLOSE on the sketch - a lusty naked woman. VALKA makes a gesture implying masturbation. BOHDAN examines the drawing before licking the back of it, lifting his shirt, sticking it to his chest, then lowering his shirt again. He waves VALKA away.
khabarov		For the lice I have an old folk remedy.
khabarov		The mines. They blast at night. He pauses to let JANUSZ catch up, then looking furtively about him, he crouches by a drift of snow.
janusz		We're going to leave them here overnight? Why?
khabarov		You'll see. JANUSZ stares up at the wire, then to a distant watchtower, its searchlight briefly illuminating him. KHABAROV follows his eye-line.
khabarov		We believe about 500 kilometers north of Lake Baikal.
janusz		We could follow the edge of the Lake, it runs due South.
janusz		Why wait?
khabarov		It's 1000 kilometers to the border, maybe more. We need careful planning, stock-pile food. I've already begun - trading, dealing. You could do the same. In the Autumn the weather is predictable. We need the early snows to cover our tracks. JANUSZ nods.
janusz		What about my friends?
khabarov		If you trust them. But they won't all survive.
janusz		But they'd die free men. KHABAROV offers his hand, and they shake.
khabarov		Temperature is dropping. Below 60 they're not supposed to send us out. Know how to tell the temperature? You see frosty fog - it's 40 below. If you exhale easily but in a rasping fashion? 50 below. When your spit freezes? More than 60 below. He hoiks and spits. Close on the ball of spit mid-air. Freeze-frame. It's a solid glittering crystal of ice.
smith		 We need to make shelter.
smith		We'll freeze to death in less than an hour.
smith		Yes, but lose 200 men and you'll have some forms to fill out. Could go badly for you. The GUARD dimly considers this. The prisoners begin to stir, some shouting out that they should turn back. The GUARD alarmed, orders the prisoners to the ground - other guards level their rifles as the mass of men lay down on the freezing ground. All but SMITH.
zoran		You are brave man - Dragan Zoran, Yugoslav this is Janusz Wieszczek the youngster is Kazik, both Polish. 
voss		Andrejs Voss, Latvian.
zoran		 English our common language! SMITH nods.
janusz		And you're ?
smith		Smith.
janusz		Your first name?
smith		Mister.
janusz		Mister Smith?
smith		That's right. As the blizzard grows in intensity, JANUSZ reaches into his pocket for strips of pine-bark collected earlier. He hands them out to his companions. They watch as he chews on the bark. The others follow his example. Watching from a short distance away is GUARD NO. 1. He takes note of the group as future troublemakers.
kazik		English, yes. They share a smile.
prof		I was only saying, these collars - the same used by ancient Egyptian people.
kazik		Yes, but on their horses probably.
prof		No. Same. On people.
kazik		How do you know that?
prof		I was professor of Egyptology. Leningrad University. KAZIK manages a look at his companion, before putting even more effort into dragging the load.
smith		Are you crazy? They'll shoot you.
janusz		Got to get out! SMITH stares at him. He's delirious and begins to shake with cold. SMITH grabs his shoulder and drags him back to where the POINT'-MAN works, thrusting JANUSZ's hands around the pipe. The POINT-MAN waves them away but SMITH bribes him with a slice of bread. SMITH turns back to JANUSZ - the warmth of the pipe beginning to have its effect.
smith		What can be done?
janusz		He knows a way through the wire. SMITH slaps a hand over his mouth, glancing at the Point- Man, before dragging JANUSZ further away.
smith		Who?
janusz		His name is Khabarov. Now SMITH understands.
smith		The actor.
janusz		You know him?
smith		He has no intention of escaping.
janusz		What?
smith		He's aliar. Been here foryears -seeksout new arrivals, mewhen Ifirstcame here. He justlikes totalkabout escape. I'veknown others like him.
janusz		Why should I believe you?
smith		 Nothing is for nothing in the camps. From you he gets your energy, your spirit. You feed his 'dream' of escape. You help keep him alive. He's no more than a leech.
janusz		You're a cold bastard, Mister.
janusz		I thought you were a loner?
smith		Can't be done alone. Besides you have a weakness that could be useful to me.
janusz		And what's that?
smith		Compassion. If anything happens to me, I'm counting on you carrying me. JANUSZ knows he's not joking.
janusz		Tonight. KHABAROV looks from the footprints to JANUSZ, a horrified look on his face.
khabarov		It's a passing storm!
janusz		It'll do, it'll cover our tracks.
khabarov		Impossible! We need preparation, detailed plans, maps
khabarov		But the distances! And food! What about food?
janusz		We've been trading, the American is with us. He has food, you have food.
khabarov		How long will that last?
janusz		I've spent half my life in the woods and mountains. We'll live off the land.
khabarov		It can't be done! JANUSZ shocked at the change in his friends' demeanor, the appalling realization that SMITH was right about him. He seizes his arm.
janusz		How do we get through the wire?
khabarov		I don't know what you're talking about.
janusz		Your friend, Lazar, he knows doesn't he? A look of fear crosses KHABAROV's face. Someone behind JANUSZ. JANUSZ turns. VALKA, a few paces away watching them. KHABAROV scuttles back inside the barracks. JANUSZ hesitates a moment, then follows.
voss		You can't see, can you? A look of panic crosses the boy's face.
valka		There are no secrets here.
janusz		What do you want?
valka		The game goes against me. Small debt - lose fingers. Big debt, they take head. Me, big debt. But one thing I never gamble is my Wolf. He removes the knife from JANUSZ's throat, tilts the blade to show a wolf's head incised into the blade.
janusz		Get up. Or we die right now. You know how fast dogs travel. He turns to the others.
janusz		Knife . VALKA has never taken an order from a 'Political' in his short life.
valka		What?
janusz		Your knife. With a glance to the others he reluctantly draws his knife from his boot and passes it to JANUSZ. While the group furiously dig, JANUSZ collects and trims fallen timber. As the hole deepens, JANUSZ begins to make a trellis roof. The voices change direction. They go still. Are they surrounded? They resume their digging with greater intensity, the hole now more than a meter at its deepest, JANUSZ placing the branches to cover their hide.
smith		We've got to make fire!
janusz		No! You saw how close they were! KAZIK sinks to the snow, then ZORAN.
smith		We die either way, might as well die warm.
zoran		Once upon a time, in the days of wooden ships, there was a great storm in far away seas. A merchant ship hurried toward big rocks, lightening in the sky, the waves as high as house-tops. Very, very cold, brrr! The ship smashed onto the rocks, the sailors cried in fear, called out to God, but they all drowned. All but one, Mr. Robinson Crusoe. He woke to find himself all alone on a desert island. For many years he lived without any human companions, until one day he saw something shocking! What was it? A human footprint. He was no longer alone. But was the stranger friend or foe? Another ship wrecked sailor? Or, a cannibal? All turn as a flicker of flame begins at the base of the kindling. While JANUSZ blows at the flame, MR. SMITH feeds in small shavings. The group watch with the awe and wonder usually reserved for child-birth. Then everyone is making a contribution - adding a few leaves, or tiny twigs, like offerings, as the fire grows and spreads.
valka		You stare at me like the snake at the rabbit or is it the other way 'round? VALKA turns to the others with a silver-toothed smile, indicates SMITH.
janusz		Snow, falling from trees. They relax a little.
kazik		When can we travel by day?
janusz		When I say.
tomasz		How far have we come?
janusz		Twenty, thirty kilometers.
zoran		Is that all?
valka		Less, if we've been going in circles, like the chicken without its head.
zoran		He reads the trees, don't you?
janusz		Something like that. He spreads out a piece of cloth on the snow at his feet.
janusz		We share. JANUSZ reaches out for the sack of food. VALKA glances at the others, then passes it to him. TOMASZ has already begun to organize seven slices of bread laying one of VOSS's fish heads on each. one. He hands them out. They eat in silence, savoring every bite. ZORAN removes the fish-head, passing it back to TOMASZ. Then he places a thin layer of snow on the bread like a canape. He eats daintily, his little finger extended like a dowager at a tea party, raising a smile from his exhausted companions.
smith		You've made a bargain with the Devil.
valka		For direction he looks at grass and mosses, what's that? I swear to God he better know what he's doing.
smith		You should be grateful you're here at all.
valka		Gratitude is for dogs. He moves away from SMITH, his eyes fixed on JANUSZ, who is again studying moss on the side of a tree.
janusz		Wolves it's only wolves.
zoran		'Only wolves', great.
janusz		South! To Lake Baikal! Cheers from the watching group.
valka		You are the 'Pakhan'.
janusz		What's 'Pakhan'?
valka		Boss of criminals.
janusz		We're not criminals, we're escaping from criminals.
valka		I swear to God you win my respect with your sticks and pine-cones. I'll stand between you and death.
janusz		You want to be my bodyguard?
valka		It's the Urka way. You have me and you have the Wolf. He touches the knife in its bark sheath at his belt. JANUSZ increases the pace, VALKA pushing himself to keep up with his 'Pakhan'.
valka		To Mongolia? No. I go further. To America. The first SMITH has heard of this. TOMASZ turns from examining their store of food.
valka		We need meat.
voss		I can make traps.
janusz		We'll be moving too fast to wait for traps.
valka		We find farms, villages, get food there.
janusz		There's a bounty on our heads.
valka		We steal it. At night. They never know.
voss		We're not thieves.
smith		Barbed-wire. ZORAN puzzled, but TOMASZ gets it.
tomasz		He's making a fish-hook. JANUSZ smiles at SMITH's ingenuity.
janusz		It's how we'll survive isn't it, Mister?
zoran		Fish? I don't eat fish.
smith		Then you'll die. KAZIK has a far-away look in his sight-less eyes. He speaks in Polish to JANUSZ.
voss		What does he say?
tomasz		He asked Janusz if he believes in God's forgiveness. This has come from seemingly nowhere.
smith		Save your philosophy. Concentrate on keeping up with us instead. He gets up and goes in search of more wood, the others surprised at his cold tone. The rest of the group also begin to prepare their camp. Most gather wood while TOMASZ, the 'quartermaster', makes their meal, and JANUSZ the fire. VOSS keeps an eye on KAZIK who, demonstrating his independence while it's still light, and his desire to contribute, returns with a load of wood, turning back into the forest for more. Others gather wood, and as the light fades, begin to take up positions by the growing fire, roll cigarettes, etc. VOSS looks anxiously for KAZIK. He has not returned.
voss		He has night-blindness.
kazik		I thought I was alone!
kazik		I'll just sit for a minute. The PROF. sits beside him.
kazik		We made it. We really made it. Isn't that something.
janusz		A free man died here today. Amens are muttered. The group remain by the grave reluctant to leave. All but VALKA who looks about restlessly.
valka		Young always die first. The others look at him.
smith		I made a mistake.
zoran		They'll find our bones and your drawings a hundred years from now, and say - 'a fine example of Early Gulag Man'.
tomasz		Shut up with your jokes! Go and find food like the others.
zoran		You do the shutting up! Drawing like you're on holiday. I'm sick.
tomasz		I cook. They find food. What do you ever do? Nothing!
zoran		I make them laugh.
tomasz		Not any more. ZORAN turns away from him, curling up into a foetal position.
tomasz		What do you have? Come on, no holding back. SMITH approaches from the cave, hands over two small fish, his day's catch. VOSS steps forward with a dead squirrel. VALKA has nothing. TOMASZ reaches for their cooking pot cooling by the fire. He passes a cup to
valka		Who will be first? JANUSZ looks at him.
janusz		You mean the first to die? VALKA nods, indicates TOMASZ.
valka		I think that sucker, the artist. But better if it was him. He nods toward ZORAN.
janusz		It might be you. VALKA shrugs.
valka		More soft. More tender. JANUSZ shakes his head, 'no'.
janusz		We'll get food when we get to Lake Baikal, plenty of fish there.
valka		You said we should have seen Lake a week ago. We're lost, Pakhan. JANUSZ stares into the fire as VALKA lays down to sleep.
janusz		I'll be back in a week - if I find the lake. If not, you're on your own.
valka		I come too.
janusz		 I'll travel faster alone. Mr. Smith will be the Pakhan while I'm gone. JANUSZ turns and with a nod of the head 'follow me', to SMITH, he moves off.
smith		I know. Valka.
janusz		Don't let him out of your sight.
smith		Good luck. As JANUSZ heads off into the forest.
janusz		Three days from here. South by West. He collapses. VOSS shouts for the fire to be built up, hot water to be boiled. He feels his pulse, checks his eyes.
voss		Stones! Gather stones! Heat them in the fire!
smith		What's the 'brick'?
janusz		What did I say?
smith		Something about a loose brick. JANUSZ nods, offers no explanation.
janusz		I expect nothing less.
smith		So you better get better quick if you want to see home again.
janusz		We could've used you in the Polish army. Fired you out of a cannon. He closes his eyes, lapses back into a deep sleep.
valka		I swear to God, those mother- fuckers would cut off our heads, take them to secret police. Get more for us than they would for their fish. JANUSZ, impatient to move on, is already on his feet. ZORAN rolls onto his back with a groan.
voss		What is it?
smith		We're being followed.
janusz		Followed? Where?
smith		Fifty yards back. A man on his own. May have seen us - crossed into the trees beside the track. A silence as they consider their options. VALKA draws his knife.
voss		No killing.
smith		He gives us away, the soldiers will be on us in no time.
janusz		Valka, go back on the other side of the track, then come up behind, in case he makes a run for it. VALKA moves off, gliding through the trees on the left of the track. The others wait a beat, then move into the trees on the right side of the track picking up fallen timber as weapons. JANUSZ is in the lead when in a clearing not fifty paces ahead, a figure steps out from behind a tree. JANUSZ stops, holding up a hand for the others to stay where they are. He stares at the small figure - a young woman. There's a glimpse of a dirty skirt under her coat, a scarf tied loosely about her neck. Wisps of chestnut hair stray out from under a moth-eaten fur hood. She looks frightened and desperate.
smith		What? What is it?
janusz		She's Polish. Been following us for several days.
valka		What does she want?
janusz		Food? Protection? She's been too afraid to approach us until she was sure we weren't Russians.
smith		She wants to travel with us?
janusz		She's on the run, like us. Escaped from a Russian collective farm.
valka		I swear to God I know this type - street gypsies, there are thousands like that, less use than a dog! JANUSZ looks back to the GIRL who watches them from the clearing.
janusz		She's starving.
smith		We can't feed ourselves.
janusz		Zoran?
zoran		Maybe it's kinder to leave her.
voss		She's been sent to us. We can't leave her.
smith		We have no choice. JANUSZ knows this is true.
janusz		I'm sorry. He reaches into his bag, passes her a fish and some nuts and berries. It's all she can do to refrain from eating it right away.
the girl		Go back. He guesses at what this might mean.
janusz		If we had enough food She stares at him, nods, then walks back toward the path, returning in the direction from which she came.
voss		Her name is, Irena.
valka		Why do we do this?
zoran		So we don't look like thieves and robbers. ZORAN approaches him, blade in hand.
janusz		She's educated. Speaks good English. And French.
smith		That right.
janusz		You don't like her, do you?
smith		Speak to Valka about her. He doesn't even think she's Polish.
janusz		I did speak to him. And the others. They agree she comes with us.
smith		It's decided then?
janusz		You disagree.
smith		Apart from food she'll slow us down. There's no room for sentimentality. You know that.
smith		Can you swim?
irena		Yes, Mister.
smith		You wouldn't lie to me?
irena		I'm not lying, Comrade. That was a slip of the tongue, and SMITH is made uneasy by it.
smith		And don't call me, 'comrade'. With a shout the group plunge into the icy water, swimming one-handed, their packs held above water level in the other. It's only when they reach the other side they realize IRENA is still on the opposite bank. The others urge her to swim across. She hesitates a moment then runs upstream to where the river is frozen.
smith		Janusz tells me your family were Kulaks?
irena		Yes. Just a cow and some pigs.
smith		Were your parents arrested with you?
irena		They're dead. She swats at a few mosquitos hovering around her face.
her tears		They walk in silence a few paces, and she dries with the corner of her sleeve.
smith		You can't swim can you? She looks up at him.
irena		What?
smith		You've never been in the water in your life. She laughs coquettishly.
irena		But I got across, didn't I?
smith		And, you said you lived on a farm near Warsaw? IRENA puzzled.
irena		Yes.
smith		The Soviets didn't get that far. That was German territory. She nervously swats the mosquitos.
janusz		We'll have to go 'round it.
valka		Quicker through it.
janusz		They'll have dogs. Raise the alarm. We wouldn't stand a chance
valka		We need food again, Pakhan.
janusz		I know we need food, but we're not going into that town, risk everything. SMITH gets up.
smith		We're wasting time. He strikes off up a slope toward the hills behind the town.
janusz		Where's Valka?
smith		He was behind Zoran.
zoran		I'm not his keeper.
janusz		Damn him! He looks back down to the town.
smith		He could turn us in for the bounty.
janusz		And risk arrest?
smith		He'd bribe his way out of it.
irena		He might.
zoran		It's an opportunity. We're rid of him.
tomasz		We don't need his knife. We can make one from deer bone.
zoran		Come on! Let's go!
valka		So. SMITH moves swiftly, grabs him by his collar and spins him into the tree.
smith		Could have got us all killed.
valka		You tear my coat
smith		Fool! He releases him and VALKA staggers back, reaching down to a bulging sack. He tips out the contents - various foodstuffs including a freshly killed rabbit and a bottle of vodka.
valka		'Fool' is it? It's then they notice blood splashed over his trousers.
valka		You know when they put the children of the political prisoners in the orphanage, they change their names, so later, the parents can never find them.
zoran		Is that what happened to you?
valka		 I didn't have parents. But that's what happened to her. He passes IRENA the bottle. She glares back at him.
irena		They called me 'Rykov', but I remembered our Polish name - 'Zulinski'. I used to say it every night before I went to sleep.
janusz		The story you told us
janusz		And you ran away. She nods. VALKA grinning proudly at her.
valka		She lived in the streets, like me! He breaks into one of his Urki songs. IRENA translates.
irena		It's about a mother complaining to her son that he's a thief, just like his father... it goes on and says, 'but if you are strong enough to fight 'til death - you will conquer fate'. She joins VALKA in the chorus.
zoran		There it is! Again! JANUSZ mystified.
tomasz		But what did you say to him?
zoran		That I was an escaped convict who was being plagued by mosquitos. As they round a bend and disappear from sight, TOMASZ's voice drifts back.
voss		A small stone church in a little village. Very peaceful. I grew up in that village. Then,
zoran		I went on business. Once a year - government clients of course! Then,
smith		Is that right?
irena		And Zoran was on business in Moscow, arrested in Red Square, he said he was just taking a photo of the Kremlin! He's an accountant.
smith		Well, I'll be damned. Never knew a funny accountant.
irena		Don't you talk to each other?
smith		In the camps you learn to say as little as possible. They walk on in silence, IRENA sneaking a look up at him.
janusz		Mr. Smith? An American? Working on the Moscow metro?
janusz		Why did he come to Russia for God's sake?
irena		The Depression. His son came with him.
janusz		What happened to his son?
irena		They shot him. He was seventeen.
janusz		The Mongolian border is on the other side of those tracks. Two ARMED SOLDIERS can be seen walking along the tracks.
tomasz		Can't we go around this?
janusz		This is the main line. It's going to be like this everywhere.
smith		We don't have a choice.
janusz		We cross at night. Their attention is caught by the passing of a long freight train, horn sounding over the bucolic scene.
tomasz		What's that you're making?
valka		A cross for your tombstone.
zoran		Valka?
valka		What?
zoran		Why do you have arseholes tattooed on your chest? VALKA stops. Stares back.
valka		You think it's funny? They are great men. ZORAN laughs.
zoran		Sure he does. Then he puts both of them in a camp for twenty-five years. VALKA goes back to his carving.
smith		Love it later. We need to get as far from this border as possible. ZORAN faces Russia and as if bowing at the end of a performance.
zoran		Thank you Mother Russia for your hospitality! I definitely will not be coming back! It's only then that we notice that VALKA has not crossed through. He stands staring at them from the Soviet side. It's clear he's going no further. JANUSZ crosses back to him, and they talk through the wire.
janusz		They'll catch you if you stay, you know that.
janusz		No, America?
valka		It's not for me - 'Freedom'. Wouldn't know what to do with it, I swear to God. He places his hand on the wooden hilt of his knife, sticking out of his waistband.
janusz		Good luck, Valka.
valka		Good luck, Pakhan. And he turns and walks away. JANUSZ walks toward the distant group and by the time he looks back, VALKA is gone.
voss		It's here too.
smith		This changes everything. IRENA looks at the grassy plains all about them.
irena		Nowhere to hide.
voss		After China is Tibet. Religious people. Buddhists.
janusz		But isn't Tibet closed to foreigners? I remember reading that.
voss		Their religion would compel them to shelter us. We could go to Lhasa, the capital.
zoran		We break out of one 'closed country' and now we plan to break into another? I like 'open' countries. TOMASZ and JANUSZ exchange a few excited words in Polish. IRENA translates.
irena		They say we could go beyond Tibet. Over the mountains. To India.
zoran		What mountains?
smith		 The Himalayas.
tomasz		We could join the British Army. First fight Nazis then Russians!
zoran		Go over the Himalayas? How? On a magic carpet? A silence as they contemplate the massive distances stretching ahead of them.
janusz		No! Andrejs, no! VOSS tries to free his arm.
tomasz		Why not? We're hungry!
janusz		You want the locals after us too? They break into Polish, a blazing argument, months of pent up frustration. VOSS picks up the sheep and carries it inside the ruin.
janusz		You feel it?
smith		Yes.
irena		Feel what?
janusz		We're being watched. IRENA uneasy, squints in the direction of the hills. And you can feel it. Like a John Ford western there's a sense of being in Indian territory, of their every move watched by unseen eyes.
irena		What happened here?
voss		The same as happened in Russia. Churches closed, priests shot or taken to camps, religion banned. They came to my church, in Latvia. Destroyed everything, declared it a 'museum'. Later that night, there was a lone guard. A boy.
old man		Russki? A glance between SMITH and JANUSZ. Much may hang on his answer.
smith		No. American. The OLD MAN maybe doesn't get the 'American' part, but he gets that they are not Russian. He seems pleased about that.
old man		Lhasa? SMITH nods.
smith		Lhasa. Yes. Tibet. JANUSZ points South.
old man		Pilgrim?
smith		Yes.
old man		No horses?
smith		We are too poor to have horses. The OLD MAN points at IRENA.
old man		Wife? SMITH looks at IRENA.
smith		Daughter. IRENA moves closer to him. SMITH puts a protective arm about her shoulder. The OLD MAN considers the situation for a moment longer before abruptly turning, and followed by his band, galloping off toward the distant hills. Looks between the group, not exactly of relief, as there's a feeling it may not be the last they see of the riders. IRENA looks up at SMITH, smiles at him. Something about him calling her his daughter has touched some hidden place. SMITH, a little embarrassed, smiles back.
zoran		What did you do that for? I was in the middle of this beautiful dream - just about to eat some salt, I could already taste it. I want to go back to that dream.
tomasz		Then add two sprigs of rosemary and a pinch of nutmeg.
zoran		Nutmeg? What about the salt?
tomasz		We'll get to that. Now, add the oil and leave it to marinate, while you prepare the chicken. That's where the salt comes in...
zoran		Good.
tomasz		Rub it into the skin of the chicken with a little of the paprika.
z oran		Double the salt.
tomasz		I can't just double the salt! It'll be too salty.
zoran		I don't care, just do it.
tomasz		I'm not going to ruin it.
voss		Janusz! JANUSZ hesitates, looks at VOSS who holds up their water- bag.
janusz		What lake? It's a mirage. He plods on, away from the shimmering vision. There's little the others can do but trust JANUSZ, and slowly they follow.
zoran		I'm too tired to sleep.
tomasz		Why not keep walking?
zoran		I'm for that, if we can wake Andrejs. They look to where VOSS sleeps.
janusz		 Yes, but haven't you noticed? He points upward to the low clouds obscuring the stars.
smith		What about water?
janusz		What about it?
smith		I don't see any. I'm trying to remember my school geography but I seem to recall the Gobi Desert somewhere in Southern Mongolia. JANUSZ begins scooping out a hole in the pebbly ground. It's funnel-shaped, narrow at the base. The others watch as he lines the sides with dried deerskin, placing their cooking pot in the base.
janusz		We may pick up a little morning dew. Glad of something practical to do they all set about digging and lining holes with anything to hand.
zoran		You were asleep!
voss		No I wasn't.
zoran		You were following the sound of my footsteps - sleep-walking. The others have stopped. ZORAN takes the backpack from VOSS, and places it on the exhausted IRENA.
smith		Janusz? JANUSZ follows him to the rise. SMITH points to his discovery. JANUSZ squints against the light.
janusz		It's another mirage. SMITH shakes his head 'no'.
smith		We have no more water. I see trees. Where there's trees there's water.
janusz		It's East. We must head South. The others have joined them, staring toward the distant shape.
smith		I've never doubted you, Janusz. Not once. But we must give it a try.
janusz		No. We must keep going South! You'll kill us all!
smith		Damn it, we're already dying. JANUSZ goes to move on, SMITH grabs his shirt sleeve, a short pathetic struggle sees them fall to their knees, VOSS and TOMASZ move to separate them. SMITH is the first to stand, brushing sand and dirt from his clothes. He turns to the others.
janusz		It's a mirage. Just a mirage. SMITH keeps walking away - a strange echo of the incident in Siberia when he walked away from the guards. Perhaps it is this memory that causes the others to turn silently, and collecting their few possessions, to follow him. JANUSZ watches a while, then slowly follows.
zoran		Mirages don't have birds! Wider, and they're running, running with the last of their precious energy.
smith		Just a little. Don't fill yourselves. More scoops follow in quick succession, enough to splash hands and faces. VOSS calls from a few yards away.
voss		Fire. Coals are still warm. SMITH and JANUSZ join him, examining the ground about the fire.
smith		Lots of tracks. Nomads?
voss		Maybe others will come?
tomasz		Over here! The remains of a meal! There's still meat on the bones! He points to the cooked remains of some animal. Using VOSS's deer-bone knife he scrapes meat from the bones, others just attacking any bone they find.
janusz		Don't eat it all! He manages to save at least half of the meat, wrapping it in a cloth, and putting it in VOSS's backpack.
tomasz		At least we have water here.
janusz		But no food.
voss		Other nomads will come. Water their flocks.
janusz		When? Next week? Next month?
zoran		We could wait a few days, at least.
janusz		Without food, we'll only get weaker. Maybe too weak to travel.
tomasz		These last days - I don't know that I could go through that again.
voss		 It was a miracle finding this. Can we count on another?
tomasz		I say we stay.
smith		What are you looking at me for? Ask Janusz. He's already made up his mind for us, haven't you, Janusz? JANUSZ says nothing.
smith		We're in trouble.
janusz		I know that, but they mustn't.
smith		They know.
janusz		You can survive a month or more without food, but water?
smith		Days?
janusz		Maybe two days, maybe less in this heat.
smith		What about what we're getting from condensation?
janusz		It's the only thing keeping us alive. But for how long?
smith		Can you get us back to the waterhole?
voss		When we worked the fields, during the hot summers, we used to suck on small stones like these. Don't know why but it made us feel less thirsty. ZORANpicks up a pebble.
zoran		We've eaten just about everything else.
voss		You don't eat it, just suck on it. At this moment IRENA falls again, her knees buckling and her face pitching into the sand in almost one movement. They turn her over again, wiping the sand from her nose and mouth. SMITH makes a shelter over her with their sticks and jackets. She lies with her eyes closed, her breathing coming in harsh gasps. Both legs are now swollen to the knees. He touches the swelling and the marks his fingers make remain for some seconds.
irena		I'm becoming a nuisance. She looks down at her legs.
janusz		Do they hurt you?
irena		No, not at all. They must be swelling because I've walked so far. Don't you think, Mister? SMITH nods reassuringly then quickly turns away, a look of deep anguish passing across his face.
zoran		Save it for Irena. We've got our pebbles. And he pops one in his mouth, makes out it's delicious and soothing. In the now familiar ritual they scoop out holes in the sand, lining them with their jackets, hopeful of collecting a little moisture overnight.
irena		I can walk alright if I can lean a little on you. They each lightly lay a hand on her elbow.
janusz		Can you go on?
irena		I think so. But what about Mr. Smith? SMITH struggling for breath is back on his feet, waving them on. VOSS and JANUSZ each put an arm about her and half-carrying, half-dragging her, they set off again but it's no use, she's lost all her strength.
voss		I'm going to carry her.
voss		I like this one. When did you do that? He holds up a sketch of KAZIK, showing him examining one of his battered shoes.
tomasz		On the train. Poor Kazik, always the trouble with his feet. ZORAN holds up a drawing of himself.
zoran		Who's this?
tomasz		You. ZORAN looks at it again genuinely shocked.
zoran		My father maybe, but is that how I look now? A chuckle from the others. SMITH stares at a sketch of IRENA.
smith		You caught her smile. SMITH passes the sketch to JANUSZ as TOMASZ lays back down, a smile on his face. He looks up at the stars. He knows he's dying and has accepted the fact. This in turn has given strength to his friends, and between them all is a feeling of love and a kind of peace.
janusz		Do you see it?
zoran		Come on, Jan.
janusz		But do you see it?
zoran		No. He helps him to his feet and they continue on.
janusz		Eagles live in mountains. SMITH looks at the featureless landscape ahead.
smith		They also fly long distances.
zoran		Water!
janusz		Knife . VOSS passes him the deer-bone knife. With it, he splits the end of his staff, to make a fork out of the end.
z oran		What if it's poisonous?
janusz		You can still eat it. Just cut off its head. He passes the knife to VOSS, then creeps toward the creature, and striking quickly he attempts to trap the snake in the fork. Too slow. The snake disappears into its hole.
janusz		It's not bad.
voss		Kind of like chicken.
zoran		Yeah, a long black poisonous chicken with no legs.
janusz		You know Valka talked of eating each other? In Siberia?
zoran		He did? Would you have eaten me?
janusz		Probably.
zoran		I would never have eaten you - too stringy and bitter, I'd rather eat snake. VOSS nearly chokes on something, reaches into his mouth, pulls out a tooth.
janusz		Scurvy.
smith		It can kill you, remember? JANUSZ puzzled.
janusz		Mister?
smith		What?
janusz		I mightn't know youur first name, but I know your son's name. SMITH stares at him.
smith		Irena told you. JANUSZ nods.
janusz		Can I say his name? Nothing from SMITH.
smith		Saying his name on't bring him back. He struggles onto his elbow, staring intently at JANUSZ, an ironic smile on his lips.
janusz		Are you giving up?
smith		In the camps, some saw death as 'freedom'.
janusz		So why didn't you kill yourself?
smith		Survival was a kind of protest. JANUSZ makes him take a little water.
janusz		Punishment for what?
smith		I brought David to Russia didn't
janusz		And no-one can forgive you? And you can't forgive yourself?
smith		Be easier if I had religion, or a home to go back to, like you.
janusz		For us, the old life is gone. They sit in silence for a while.
smith		Irena told me they tortured your wife and she informed on you.
janusz		Yes.
smith		They did that to my boy.
smith		Tibetan? They move on with renewed energy.
official		India? Yes. There is the track to Sikkim, over the mountains. Many people go there.
smith		And food?
official		Small villages there. They give food. Wood for fire. Yes, but you don't go now. CLOSE on JANUSZ, intensely following the conversation.
janusz		Why can't we go now?
official		If big snow come - very difficult. You wait here until Spring. This family keep you. He confers with the LAMA.
official		 He go to Lhasa. Get permission for to stay. Only to Spring. Not possible foreigners stay Tibet. SMITH bows his head, mutters thanks, all of the group doing likewise.
zoran		Well, we can't cross in Winter.
janusz		He said it was 'difficult'. SMITH comes in, and they make room for him in the cramped space.
zoran		I'm going to sleep 'till Spring. Like a bear in a cave. What about you, Mister? SMITH settles with his back to the wall, draws up his sheepskin.
smith		I'm going to Lhasa. The others are stunned by this.
zoran		'Looking after number one.' Isn't that what Americans say?
smith		Zoran? ZORAN eventually looks at him.
zoran		He's right. I just realized it.
voss		Realized what?
zoran		Apart from a few mountains, we're there. We made it.
voss		Not all of us.
zoran		No. Not all of us. Their thoughts drift back to their lost companions.
smith		'Home'?
z oran		Build metros?
smith		Might drift for a while.
voss		I will fight. First Germans, then Russians.
zoran		Then re-build your church?
voss		I will die fighting. This statement has an oddly prophetic sound. JANUSZ look across at him.
zoran		I'm going to get Tomasz's pictures to a newspaper, or get them published somehow. Then I'm going to cook his chicken - but with extra salt just to annoy him. Chuckles from the group.
smith		And you, Janusz?
****Dialogues from script :We_Own_the_Night.txt****

bobby green		...you're so fuckin' beautiful, you know that...?
2.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		I love you, baby...
muffled voice		Bobby!   You in there?
rosario diaz		It's Jumbo... We gotta go anyway...
bobby green		 I'll be out in a second, Louis!
3.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		What the fuck's goin' on in here?
louis falsetti		Okay, Bobkes! Looks like you got everything under control here--so uh, so I'm gonna go outside, take my break!
bobby green		Yeah--just keep that wide load of yours outta trouble, arright?
louis falsetti		Yes, your fuckin' majesty!
4.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		What're you doing?!? You gotta behave yourself here!
bloodied patron		C'mon, Mr. Green! I didn't do nothing!
bobby green		Well now you're gonna do nothing someplace else!  Throw `em out on their ass. I gotta go upstairs, drop off my keys with the old man.
marat buzhayev		Bobby!   Come here!
bobby green		Mr. Buzhayev, how are you!
5.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Listen, Mr. Buzhayev--I gotta go do something right now. But don't worry--everything's in good shape downstairs.
marat buzhayev		 Yes, good. You take care of things good for us...
kalina buzhayev		 Bobby! Where you run off to?!?
6.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		Here, take another one! Get another!
joseph grusinsky		Pop, they got enough! What're you doin'?!?
burt grusinsky		 C'mon. With both kids.
photographer		Thanks, Chief!
7.		CONTINUED: 
burt grusinsky		You see your brother yet?
joseph grusinsky		 He ain't gonna come.
burt grusinsky		 He better.
rosario diaz		C'mon. What's the big deal anyway? We'll go in, you say hello, then we'll go.
bobby green		You remember what I tol' you?
rosario diaz		Yeah!   Course!
bobby green		Nobody knows about my father and my brother--not even Jumbo. And it's gotta stay that way, you understand?
rosario diaz		Yeah, you tol' me a thousand times. But I been with you for two years, Bobby--I should meet `em by now. We goin' in or not?
8.		CONTINUED: RUSSELL DE KEIFER  It's me, Russell De Keifer, from across Northern Boulevard, remember? You still bartending that Russian joint, out there in Brooklyn?
bobby green		Nah.   Nah, I'm managing now.
bobby green		Yeah. I'll see you `round, arright?
rosario diaz		What'd he call you?
bobby green		 I changed my name--I use my mother's name now. It's better for business. C'mon...
joseph grusinsky		How you doing...
9.		CONTINUED:
joseph grusinsky		Feels like nothin'. Nah, it feels good! I love trying to, you know, help make the City safer for people and everything...
bobby green		That's them there. In the corner. Lookit `em--two peas in a pod.
rosario diaz		Yeah--I see `em! They don't look that bad though, you know? For cops?  Who're those other guys?
bobby green		[My] Father's friends--they were all in Korea together.  Look, don't talk to nobody, we'll get out quicker.
rosario diaz		 I ain't gonna embarrass you.
bobby green		N--I just wanna get out quick, that's all...
joseph grusinsky		Bobby, hey! You, you got off work and everything--
bobby green		Yeah I did so...congratulations...
10.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		Hello.
bobby green		Pop.  Everybody, this is my girlfriend. Rosario.
rosario diaz		Nice to meet you!
bobby green		This's my brother. And my father.
burt grusinsky		We gotta talk to you. Alone.
michael solo		In a house of God, no less? C'mon, get up...
11.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		Your hair's long.
bobby green		I know. I like it this way.  That why you got me up here?    [To] tell me my hair's too long?
joseph grusinsky		Bobby, I asked Pop to bring you here.
bobby green		Whatsamatter?
joseph grusinsky		Well... I'm gonna be heading up a new narcotics team, starting this week. A Russian unit, outta PSA 2 in Brighton.
bobby green		 That's a good hook for you.
joseph grusinsky		Yeah, they need me over there. There's only eleven guys in the whole department that even know the language right now, so...
bobby green		You ever talk?
jack shapiro		I'm old-fashioned. I listen first.
joseph grusinsky		Bobby, we need you to do us a favor.
12.		CONTINUED:  You cut me off financially, and now you need the favor? `S interesting.
joseph grusinsky		PUDGE--
bobby green		`S good lookin' boy!
joseph grusinsky		He's dealing H, cocaine, angel dust... Operates out of that club you manage. The El Caribe.
bobby green		I don't know nothing about that.
joseph grusinsky		No, we know that. We checked up and down the rest of management, too--his uncle, the owner--
bobby green		The old man?! What, you been watching us?!?
joseph grusinsky		Everybody come up clean. It's just Nezhinski we're lookin' at.
bobby green		 What the fuck is this?
13.		CONTINUED: 
joseph grusinsky		We need to track how he's bringin' in the product and...we were just hopin' you'd keep your eyes and ears open a little.
bobby green		You kidding me? Inform for you?!? That's what you wanted me here for?
joseph grusinsky		No, we would never ask you to do that. Just observe, that's all. It's a closed community and you're our only way in right now--
bobby green		Yeah well, find another way. I got a lot invested in that club and I can't let it get fucked up.
joseph grusinsky		Nothing's gonna get fucked up, Bobby. All it takes is one thing, you know that! One guy to flip, we crack the whole thing!
michael solo		Bobby, it's important. These ain't dumb guys we're talking about. We don't stop `em up front, coupla years from now, it'll be chaos out there.  We'd be wishing the Italians'd come back.
bobby green		[You] Fuckin' broadsided me... Everything's about the goddamned job with you.
joseph grusinsky		Whole city's falling apart, Bobby-- don't you got any sense of responsibility at all? 
14.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		C'mon... Get off your fuckin' high horse and bust somebody else's balls.
burt grusinsky		 All right, go downstairs. Lemme talk to him.
joseph grusinsky		Thanks for coming.
bobby green		You're welcome.
joseph grusinsky		Just be careful out there next coupla weeks.
bobby green		'S that supposed to mean?!?
burt grusinsky		Joseph!
bobby green		Congratulations. You got me up here.
burt grusinsky		I knew you wouldn't help us. I told your brother, I said, `no point even bringing him down here.'
bobby green		Good.   Then now you know.
burt grusinsky		Hold on a second--lemme ask you a question. That girl of yours downstairs--she Puerto Rican?
bobby green		Yeah.   I like the dark meat.
15.		CONTINUED: 
burt grusinsky		She hooking you up?
bobby green		 Why, you want some?
burt grusinsky		Yeah, keep laughing--your mother, rest in peace, I think she was too easy on you.
bobby green		I gotta go, Pop. I'll see you `round.
spiro giavannis		Everyone?   Everyone!
rosario diaz		You take a picture, it'll last longer.
bobby green		C'mon, let's get outta here, [we'll] go party with Jumbo.
rosario diaz		We could stay if you want, baby. They don't like me, I don't care-- you're better than them anyway--
16.		CONTINUED:
spiro giavannis		I'm Deputy Commissioner Spiro GIAVANNIS--
burt grusinsky		Thank you. You know, I used to tell my kids, "work first, play later," and my son Joseph really took it to heart. He's been a real fighter over the years... He overcome his mother's passing, and the dyslexia--eventually wound up graduating John Jay as salutatorian and distinguished himself many times.  Anyway, you've shown yourself to be very brave and selfless, and I'm just, I'm very proud here tonight.
joseph grusinsky		Thank you everybody for coming-- happy Thanksgiving. Before I say anything else... We got some bad news this morning. 
17.		CONTINUED:  One of our Irish brothers was killed in the line of duty last night--detective Edward Conlon was gunned down serving a warrant on Northern Boulevard. The clock's about to strike ten, so I thought we might give a moment of silence to remember.
rosario diaz		I'm gonna be like Madonna. You think I'm like Madonna...?
bobby green		You're just like her, baby...
18.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		I talked to my mother yesterday. She said she'd be okay by herself, so I could move in if I want...
bobby green		That's cool.
rosario diaz		 Your family ain't gonna be too happy, though. I saw how they looked at me.
bobby green		It's all right--they don't like nobody outside their own little world.
rosario diaz		Yeah...you know, cops're fucked up. In my neighborhood, if they ain't taking money, they're beating on you for no reason...
bobby green		My brother and my father ain't like that. It's just--the whole thing ain't for me, that's all.
rosario diaz		WAIT--
19.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		What is it?
rosario diaz		Open it up!
bobby green		...it's beautiful...
rosario diaz		I love you... And someday we're gonna get a big house together, in New Jersey, with a lotta kids...
bobby green		Only if you behave yourself...
bobby green		Uh oh--[The] party's really gonna get started now!
louis falsetti		Yeah--let's all play Spin my Pickle!
freddie		Hey Falsetti!    You get what we wanted? 
20.		CONTINUED:
louis falsetti		 See, I woulda been here sooner, `cept I hadda go across town, lose all the cops--
hazel		There weren't no cops following us!
louis falsetti		Shut your mouth! You wouldn't recognize `em--they were, they were all undercover.
bobby green		Any Spanish Fly in there for you?
louis falsetti		Yeah, you need that, not me!
bobby green		I'm goin' up to see Buzhayev tonight. I think he's gonna ask me to buy into the club.
louis falsetti		Yeah? Well, you know what you should do, you should turn it into a fag joint and then maybe they'll let ya in!
21.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		I'll show you a fuckin' faggot!
michael solo		The spot's got one main entrance, two rear fire exits. All of `em'll be covered.
joseph grusinsky		Good. I just wanna make sure we take it easy in there. We don't want no panic.
jack shapiro		What if your brother's inside?
joseph grusinsky		It's his day off. He ain't gonna be there.
michael solo		What if he is?    We still go?
bobby green		No no, I'm all right... Hi everybody...
bobby green		Everything's really rockin' tonight. Line's halfway `round the block.
marat buzhayev		Yes, it's good...
bobby green		You wanted to talk to me?
marat buzhayev		You know, maybe we open another spot next year. Across from Brighton.
23.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		'S a good move.
marat buzhayev		We need someone in charge here full- time, then. And we think you do a great job.
bobby green		I appreciate that. You know, I been thinking `bout it--I'd like to become a partner here too--buy in with you.  I mean, I got a lot of ideas.
bobby green		Well, I just think we could do more. Maybe expand into Sheepshead Bay. I know a good spot--we add a restaurant there, get the spill- over. Like what your brother did, in Miami.
eli mirichenko		That's gonna take a lot of money, Papa. Your fur business can support that right now?
marat buzhayev		My son-in-law, he worries people take advantage of me.
bobby green		I can understand that. But I got money to invest--we could make it something real special over there. Do what I did downstairs--you know, bring in name DJs on different nights?  What do you think?
24.		CONTINUED: 
marat buzhayev		Yes. Together we do it. You come to our Thanksgiving again, on Thursday?
bobby green		Yeah, sure.   I'll come.
marat buzhayev		Good--we talk more, at the dinner.
bobby green		Nah nah, no thank you...
louis falsetti		My brother! How'd it go?  Ho, well! I'm guessing it went pretty good then!
bobby green		Listen--I get this done, I want you to be a host. In one of our spots.
louis falsetti		That's my specialty. I'm whaddaya call, a people person!
bobby green		Well, just make sure you get your old co-workers from the Health Department to give us a pass on the kitchen.
25.		CONTINUED:
louis falsetti		Yeah, no problem--half of `em got rats as pets anyway.
bobby green		Where's Rosario?
louis falsetti		She's a player, Bob. You know how it goes.
bobby green		Look at him... I'll tell you, [when] this is my place, we'll kick his fuckin' ass right outta here--
louis falsetti		 Bob! You gotta watch your mouth! I mean, he don't scare me, but uh, but trust me, I know.
bobby green		Yeah, you know a lot.
louis falsetti		I do, I'm serious!  Last year, one of his guys was gonna flip? Jesus Christ, what I saw...
louis falsetti		Nezhinski dragged him into the toilet. They stood him up against the wall and held him--
louis falsetti		Worst thing I ever seen in my life, Bob.  Anyway, cops found his head in the middle of Brighton Avenue the next day--fuckin' dick was in his mouth.
bobby green		You sure it wasn't your dick?
louis falsetti		Yeah, that's funny.  You sure it wasn't your mouth?
bobby green		Shit... I'll be right back.
27.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		Hi, honey!
vadim nezhinski		Bobby--c'mon, join us! I wanna talk to you!
bobby green		 Things're goin' good.
vadim nezhinski		That's real good... `Cause you gotta be happy, you know? All my guys, I tell `em, the mind and the body, they're connected. That's how you stay sharp.
pavel lubyarsky		This's "Kid Quick" you're talking to, dude. Best fuckin' middleweight in the Ukraine.
bobby green		He don't look like a middleweight no more.
28.		CONTINUED: 
vadim nezhinski		You know Bobby, my uncle upstairs, he, he likes you a lot. Practically thinks you're one of his kids.
bobby green		Your uncle's a great man. Smart man.
vadim nezhinski		Yeah... Smart smart stupid. Got his head buried in books all day, `stead of the real world...
bobby green		Your uncle loses his license, he ain't gonna be too happy.
vadim nezhinski		Well, upstairs don't gotta know everything, am I right? Place gets packed every night, everybody wins.
bobby green		Yeah...I'll think about that. Rosario--I wanna talk to you.
vadim nezhinski		Go ahead.   We'll talk.
29.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		It go good upstairs, baby?
bobby green		You gotta stop dealing. You hear what I'm telling you?
rosario diaz		Yeah, I heard. But I need the money right now, Bobby. And I'm not gonna rely on you for EVERYTHING--
bobby green		Just hold off then, for a little while. Okay? I got my reasons.
rosario diaz		I love you...
joseph grusinsky		Everybody! Get your hands on your head and don't fuckin' move!  Turn off that music. Right now!
cops		Holy shit! Get the extinguishers-- call paramedics!
bobby green		Gimme your shit!
uniformed cop		Hey! I saw that! Get your hands on your fuckin' head!
paramedic		Arright, open up--a little charcoal, to absorb the toxin...
31.		CONTINUED:
joseph grusinsky		Give everybody a toss. G.Q.--
michael solo		You got anything in there?
32.		CONTINUED: 
louis falsetti		Jesus, that cop's crazy!
uniformed cop		Hey! Fat Albert! Shut your fuckin' mouth!
joseph grusinsky		What's the star for?
vadim nezhinski		That one's for God.
michael solo		Coupla dimes on `em--cocaine, a little PCP.
joseph grusinsky		Okay, let's go. You. And you--  You're under arrest, possession and sale of narcotics--
33.		CONTINUED: 
portly cop		Jesus Christ, what the hell's goin' on in here?
uniformed cop		Russian guy fuckin' slashed himself!
burt grusinsky		Where you going? I was the one who got you outta there!
34.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Thanks a lot.    I appreciate it.
burt grusinsky		You're a real big shot, aren't you! You see what happened in there last night? Hey--I'm talking to you!
bobby green		Okay, I'll go thank him too then. He comes in, raids the fuckin' place--now I gotta go beg `em not to fire me--
burt grusinsky		Fire you?! From what? Probably the best thing that ever happened to you!
bobby green		Fuck you, Pop.    Fuck the both of you's.
burt grusinsky		Don't EVER speak to me like that again. You hear me? I'll rap you right in the mouth!
bobby green		You fuckin' touch me!? You gonna fuckin' touch me?!?
35.		CONTINUED:
marat buzhayev		No no--it's okay. Say hello...
bobby green		Mr. Buzhayev... I'm real sorry about what happened the other night.  [If] I was working, maybe I would've been able to do something, but... Anyway, I'm sorry.
marat buzhayev		It's not your fault...
36.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		You don't mind my saying, I think that's probably the right thing to do.  Things get back to normal, I'm hoping we could get started on what we talked about.
marat buzhayev		 We need time for the bad publicity to go away.
bobby green		Mr. Buzhayev, my getting arrested ain't gonna be a problem. I don't got a record--
marat buzhayev		I know.   I don't worry about any of that.
bobby green		Yeah...   All right...
marat buzhayev		You take some time off, everything will be fixed in a little bit. Then you come back. I pay you for the time. Come on...
joseph grusinsky		He stabbed himself, he was a bundle guy. Mighta known how they're movin' it. See, that's the key--
bobby green		You had to hit that spot.
joseph grusinsky		Nezhinski was seen there, Bobby! What am I supposed to do--announce it in advance, compromise the whole thing?  C'mon.
bobby green		I had plans down there.
joseph grusinsky		Yeah, well, I tried. What do you want from me, anyway? You know, you're standing there feeling sorry for yourself, but you wouldn't be in this shit if you didn't fuck around in the first place.
bobby green		You got real balls saying that to me. I made something for myself, and you come in and fuck it up? Just `cause I'm not trying to be like you? And Pop--
joseph grusinsky		Bobby, you're the one acting like you're above it all all the time! 
38.		CONTINUED: JOSEPH GRUSINSKY  Fuckin' around with your little Puerto Rican all day--
bobby green		What did you call her?
joseph grusinsky		You heard me. Have some fucking class for once.
bobby green		You piece of shit...
joseph grusinsky		 [You] go around like you're a big shot... You're a joke! Grow up already! Fuckin' loser...
bobby green		Fine with me, you motherfucker!
michael solo		I don't know, Joe--forgive me, but uh, your brother... Ever since your mother got sick--
joseph grusinsky		 We'll pick this up tomorrow. I'm gonna go home.
40.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		You gotta keep your hands up! Keep your hands up!
uniformed cop		Chief...?
burt grusinsky		Which kid is it?
police chaplain		It's Joseph. He's at St. John's Hospital.  It don't look good right now.
uniformed cop		You want us to contact your other son--?
burt grusinsky		No.   Go on, I'll be right out...
rosario diaz		Baby, you got a little bruise here--
bobby green		That ain't nothing.
louis falsetti		I got a bruise too, you know--right here!
bobby green		We'll see you and bump you two C's.
louis falsetti		 We will?
42.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Siegfried and Roy, baby! Two fucking queens!
louis falsetti		Bobkes, I love you!
rosario diaz		Bobby--it's for you!
bobby green		Who is it?
louis falsetti		I was the one told him to keep goin'!
bobby green		Hello?
43.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		Is--is he gonna be all right?
michael solo		Listen, your father's coming--I gotta go. But he's at St. John's.
rosario diaz		Bobby?
bobby green		My brother was shot...they're operating on him now.
rosario diaz		You gotta go see him--be there for him and your father.
bobby green		Game's over, everybody.
bobby green		That's right.    I gotta go.
louis falsetti		Bobkes--?   What's wrong?
bobby green		What're you doing?
rosario diaz		I wanna come too. For you--
44.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		No--it's gonna be a fuckin' scene. I'll call you later.
rosario diaz		BOBBY--
bobby green		Don't argue.
louis falsetti		 Sure, Bob. Everything cool?
bobby green		Yeah, no--I just remembered I gotta do something, that's all--
other players		Hey--HEY!     What the fuck?!?
louis falsetti		Take it easy, TAKE IT EASY! Calm down and everything'll be, uh, non compos mentis!
45.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Pop?
burt grusinsky		What do you want? You stayed out of it--you got what you wanted. Why don't you go somewhere and pick a fight--you're good at that!
mustachioed cop		Chief, the union sent a shrink over for you--
burt grusinsky		Nah, I don't want that crap.
mayor		Chief Grusinsky, an attack on an officer is an attack on society. Whoever did this, in a clean neighborhood like that--they gotta be hunted down like animals.
burt grusinsky		We'll get `em, your honor. I'm gonna come back in and run it myself--we'll get `em.
46.		CONTINUED: 
michael solo		The shot went in his cheek and come out through the jaw. It missed his brain, thank God.
bobby green		 I need to see him...
michael solo		Bobby--that ain't a good idea.  I probably should've told you not to come down here--there're a lotta things going on right now.
bobby green		You guys blaming me for this? Is that it?
michael solo		Listen, I ain't judging you--I called you `cause I thought you had a right to know. But we're gonna be going hard after Nezhinski--and maybe some other people you're close to. Like that girl you know--
bobby green		That's bullshit--she's clean.      You fuckin' keep away from her.
guard		Sorry. Nobody's allowed in except immediate family.
bobby green		Yeah.   That's me.
guard		You got some I.D.?
woman's voice		Good evening. As a friendly reminder, visiting hours will be over in five minutes. Thank you.
guard		Says here your name is "Green."
bobby green		Look--I'm his brother, you fuckin' hard-on!
guard		I'm sorry.
sandra grusinsky		It's okay.
48.		CONTINUED:
nurse		Sir...?
49.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		...Feels like it was my fault...
louis falsetti		Where'd you run off to, like a Jew? You got outta there, it became like a real zoo. The spics--  `Scuse me--the P.R.s, they're goin' nuts for the money--picka picka picka picka--and the girls, they're screamin', and I'm keepin' everybody in line. I'm fuckin' bustin' heads, like Bruce Lee--I'm fuckin' bustin' heads--
50.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Hercules, do me a favor--before you kill a waitress, go pay the check.
louis falsetti		Arright. But I'll tell you Bobkes, nobody else could ever do for you what I did.
bobby green		Don't tell Louis nothing about what happened. Far as he knows, my family moved away, [a] long time ago.
rosario diaz		I ain't ever gonna say nothing! I just thought...maybe he could cheer you up a little.
vadim nezhinski		Hey, look who's here!
rosario diaz		Hey Vadim...  We were just gettin' something to eat.
vadim nezhinski		 You make it through that bust okay?
bobby green		I didn't have nothing on me.
vadim nezhinski		Glad to hear it.
bobby green		Your uncle's got some problems now, though. 
51.		CONTINUED: 
vadim nezhinski		 He does what he gotta do, I do what I gotta do. He don't own me.
bobby green		 Baby--why don't you go keep Jumbo company, make sure he leaves a tip.
rosario diaz		`Kay...
girl		Hi, Bobby!
vadim nezhinski		You know--  I still got my shit coming in. Some of us think you could help get it out there.
bobby green		It's a little dangerous right now, don't you think?
vadim nezhinski		We got a lot of muscle behind us. Lotta muscle.
bobby green		Muscle--?
vadim nezhinski		That's right.
bobby green		A cop got hit today. They ain't never gonna sit still for that.
52.		CONTINUED: 
pavel lubyarsky		Police are a fuckin' joke, dude-- the Mickey Mouse ain't gonna do nothing.
vadim nezhinski		Bobby, those cops--they, they ain't no problem.
bobby green		 I'll see you around...
53.		CONTINUED:
sergeant provenzano		Everybody! Our little "A" House got another coupla stiffs today, so it's time for another poem!  "The people of Brooklyn have been volleyed and thundered; at last the number slaughtered has reached one hundred!"
bobby green		I need to find Deputy Chief Grusinsky.
sergeant provenzano		Oh, uh, he's on the second floor, I think. In the muster room.
bobby green		Pop, I gotta talk to you.
burt grusinsky		I'm working.
bobby green		It's important--I got information.
54.		CONTINUED:
michael solo		Nezhinski got a hit list? On us?!?
bobby green		Yeah...
michael solo		We gotta go bust `em, Burt--right now.
burt grusinsky		No. They'll be back on the street in a day. We gotta try and catch `em with their hands full--find out where they got the real weight. Then we can move.
michael solo		That could take us forever!
burt grusinsky		Doesn't matter. It's our only play.
jack shapiro		I say we go hit `em all. Wipe `em out, suicide-by-cop--
burt grusinsky		What're you talkin' about?! C'mon, don't be a first-class schmuck! 
55.		CONTINUED:
jack shapiro		But we don't got the time to infiltrate `em--
burt grusinsky		Then we make the time!  You piss in your pants, you only stay warm for so long.
michael solo		What about callin' in the Feds? They got a lot more juice than we DO--
burt grusinsky		Bunch of college boys from Kansas. We protect our own here.
bobby green		Pop, Nezhinski's been talkin' about a shipment he's got comin'. Maybe that's how you get to him.
michael solo		How you know about that, Bobby?
bobby green		 They been wanting me to buy in for a while.
michael solo		Well, maybe that's it, then. If we can get him--  To set something up, maybe one of our uncles could move in--
56.		CONTINUED: 
jack shapiro		 It'd have to be him--
burt grusinsky		Forget it, both of you.
bobby green		What do you mean, set something up?
burt grusinsky		BOBBY--
michael solo		You'd go set up a buy with `em, just like they've been asking you to. We follow you to the spot, bust `em a week later. That way, your name's clean, nobody knows you're involved--
burt grusinsky		That's too dangerous for him! We don't know how solid his cover is out there!  That girlfriend of yours, she knows about you, right? So can we just get back to the discussion please?
bobby green		Pop?
burt grusinsky		What?
bobby green		You could trust her.
burt grusinsky		Good. I'm glad. But it's not happening. So forget it.
bobby green		But...but you could get killed--
burt grusinsky		Don't worry about me, just worry about yourself, arright? Anything happens with your brother I'll call you. Goodbye. 
57.		CONTINUED: 
rosario diaz		Everything okay?  They said on the television your brother was doing better.
bobby green		Your mother's real important to you, ain't she. You'd do anything for her.
rosario diaz		Yeah, I guess...
bobby green		Go back to sleep...
58.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		Bobby? It's all gonna work out... You'll see...
bobby green		You been up to see my brother...?
michael solo		Yeah. Your father's still with him- -we were just gonna go back to the PSA. Try and figure out a tac plan on Nezhinski.
bobby green		...How's that been goin'...?
michael solo		We don't got much yet, but we'll do our best.  You all right?
bobby green		Well I... I been thinking...if you could keep it confidential...?  I'd make the connection for you.
michael solo		C'MON--BOBBY--
bobby green		They trust me--we could go in large, use my money for the buy, they won't suspect anything--
59.		CONTINUED:
michael solo		It's too dangerous--you heard your father.
bobby green		 He don't gotta know anything about it. Does he?
michael solo		If anything went wrong, he'd never forgive us.
bobby green		I know.  I know the same is true for you.   I know it is.
bobby green		Hey.  It's Bobby Green.  I decided--I wanna buy in.
60.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Fifty k, to start.
pavel lubyarsky		Oh, [the] man's gonna be good with that. How `bout tomorrow night?
bobby green		Sounds good.
pavel lubyarsky		Arright. We'll meet at El Caribe, `round midnight?  That way, you could dance a little, say hi to your girlfriend...
bobby green		Okay.   I'll see you tomorrow.
michael solo		We'll get it back for you.
61.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		You need to promise me something, though. You won't investigate my girlfriend--she's, she don't know any better.
michael solo		She won't be a target. Just make sure she don't open her mouth.
bobby green		I'll take care of it.
michael solo		You know we known you your whole life, kid? Good luck.
62.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		You gonna leave me all alone out there?
bobby green		You come up with that one all by yourself?
63.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		Bobby--what're you doing here?
bobby green		I--I need to talk to you.
rosario diaz		I'm coming home in a little bit.
bobby green		I--I'm gonna inform. For the police.  I'm gonna help `em set up Nezhinski.
rosario diaz		What...?
bobby green		I had to do it, Rosario. These motherfuckers--they were gonna come after my father.
rosario diaz		But Nezhinski finds out, he'd kill YOU--
bobby green		He ain't ever gonna find out.    He ain't ever gonna know.
rosario diaz		But what if something goes wrong? What's gonna happen to you?!? 
64.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		I don't know... I'd, I'd probably have to go into protection.
rosario diaz		Oh my God...
bobby green		But that's never gonna happen!
rosario diaz		How could you not even talk to me about it...?
bobby green		Rosario, listen--I had to do it.
louis falsetti		Bobkes! My brother! I been calling you all week! Where you been?!? We missed you!!!
bobby green		Yeah... Sorry, buddy--I got some legal shit to deal with, from the raid... But I ain't forgot about you--I'll be back soon.
65.		CONTINUED:
louis falsetti		Yeah well, without you around I hadda lower myself here by hangin' out with Freddie!
freddie		Bobby, hey! Mr. Buzhayev'd love to see you, I'm sure--want me to tell him you're here?
bobby green		No, it's okay--I'll talk to him later...
bobby green		Where's Vadim.
pavel lubyarsky		Oh, he don't come in here no more--
bobby green		 So [if] you're interested, I wanna see your stash, right now. No bullshit.
pavel lubyarsky		Be on the boardwalk in a hour...
66.		CONTINUED:
joseph grusinsky		Hello?
pavel lubyarsky		Get in!
67.		CONTINUED:
pavel lubyarsky		Put your hands out, where I could see `em.
bobby green		You know me.
pavel lubyarsky		Shut your fuckin' mouth and do it!
69.		CONTINUED:
vadim nezhinski		What's the matter, ain't Pavel good enough for you?
bobby green		That's all the money I got.    And I ain't gonna leave it alone.
slavic youth		It's all there.     Fifty grand.
vadim nezhinski		Where'd you get this?
bobby green		From my savings. From El Caribe and Rasputin.
70.		CONTINUED: 
vadim nezhinski		 With the crack on the street, it's worth two hundred k. Maybe more.
bobby green		Sounds good.
vadim nezhinski		You're breathing heavy.
bobby green		I took a little taste.
vadim nezhinski		You know, I seen fighters--they breathe like that, means they get nervous.  You nervous?
bobby green		I'm clean. 
71.		CONTINUED:  You wanna search me again, you go `head. I just wanna make this deal and go home.
vadim nezhinski		You got both matches and a lighter.
bobby green		I'm gonna get pussy from this...
pavel lubyarsky		 What you say...?
bobby green		[When] this deal goes down, I'm, I'm gonna get a lotta pussy...
72.		CONTINUED: 
vadim nezhinski		He got a wire!  Kill this motherfucker, right now!
michael solo		Hands on your heads! On the floor!
73.		CONTINUED:
radios		1 0 - 1 3 ! 10-13! 10-13!
bobby green		I'm with you!     I'm with YOU!
jack shapiro		Hold it right there! Hands on your head!
vadim nezhinski		Don't shoot!
burt grusinsky		Where's my goddamned kid?!?
officers		 Shut up! Get down!
75.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		Jesus.
burt grusinsky		You guys go on a bust like this and you don't tell me about it? You think I'm born yesterday?
michael solo		I guess we do.
burt grusinsky		You're a real comedian! He's gonna need to be in protection now!
bobby green		I'll be all right, Pop.
burt grusinsky		 But now you're burnt--and we gotta get you someplace safe, keep you under wraps for awhile.
bobby green		I need you to get my girlfriend, Pop. I need her to come with me. 
76.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		I'll get them to take care of that. Just go get yourself fixed up-- that's the most important thing.
77.		CONTINUED:
spiro giavannis		Bobby, hi! Spiro Giavannis, Deputy Commissioner. Glad to see you made it out here today!
bobby green		Yeah. They let me come--long as I brought these guys with me.
spiro giavannis		How's the leg treating you?
bobby green		Good... It's rehabbing good, for only nine weeks.  Don't matter, I wasn't no Fred Astaire before.
fat lady		Everybody, they'll be here any minute!
rosario diaz		Bobby, I'm gonna go outside for a minute, have a smoke--
bobby green		Just hold on, `til he gets here.
spiro giavannis		You got any idea what you're gonna be doing after the trial?
78.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		I'm not sure yet... We been thinking about moving down to Miami. Guy I used to work for, his brother's got a place down there.
spiro giavannis		Gee, that's great. Well listen, you need any help, you give us a call. `Cause we can be part of your family too.
bobby green		A lotta kids here, lotta family... It's nice, ain't it...?
rosario diaz		Yes...
random woman		Here they are!
rosario diaz		`Be right back...
neighbor		Wow, fella! You look great!  Your eye--does it hurt?
joseph grusinsky		Only when I look at you!
bobby green		I'm real glad you're home...
80.		CONTINUED:
sandra grusinsky		Everyone, let's, let's move inside-- there's plenty to eat!
burt grusinsky		Joseph--we got some things we need to discuss, when you get the chance.
joseph grusinsky		We could do it now if you want, Pop. In the den.
rosario diaz		Bobby, I'm gonna go back to the motel.
bobby green		What're you talking about? They got a lot of food over there--why don't you go eat something?
rosario diaz		 N--I'm gonna go back.
bobby green		 You fucked up?
burt grusinsky		Bobby--you should hear this too, for the trial.
bobby green		We gotta straighten this out later.
michael solo		Nezhinski's cache was huge, about 40 keys--yayo, some angel dust too.
burt grusinsky		We're gonna try and turn him, get him to tell us how they're bringing it in. But don't worry--we'll make sure he does plenty of time.
joseph grusinsky		He ain't gonna be reliable, Pop.
burt grusinsky		Well, you marry an ape, you don't complain about the stench of bananas.
joseph grusinsky		Where is he?
jack shapiro		He's at Rikers. Tucked in, nice and comfy. We're taking him to the A.D.A. next week, for a meeting.
joseph grusinsky		I wanna go with you on that. See his fuckin' face.
michael solo		I'll tell you, though--streets're dead. Junkies're waitin' out there for something big, no question.
joseph grusinsky		That's `cause we got their number one. Dried it up at the source.
bobby green		That don't mean nothing.
82.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		What's that, Bobby?
bobby green		There's a whole network full of suppliers. The organization goes deep.
joseph grusinsky		Bobby--you done a lot for us already. You don't gotta get involved in this anymore. Okay?
burt grusinsky		I asked him to come in, Joe. If he's gonna have to testify, he should know all this.
joseph grusinsky		This's police business, Pop--you gonna make him an honorary member of the Force now?
bobby green		I'll be outside if you need me.
burt grusinsky		BOBBY--  What was said in there, he--he didn't mean it.
bobby green		Well, why's he goin' back to work so soon, anyway? He ain't ready.
83.		CONTINUED:
burt grusinsky		No--it's better this way. I don't want him sitting around with nothing to do, feeling useless--
bobby green		POP--
burt grusinsky		I could pull some strings, get you through the academy with an early LEAVE--
bobby green		No, come on! I don't want that!  What I did, I did for you guys, this once. I got my own plans.
burt grusinsky		Wait--Don't go yet--
bobby green		 Take me back to the motel.
burt grusinsky		Can't you put some clothes on him?
bobby green		Rosario?    Rosario!
louis falsetti		Bobkes!!!
rosario diaz		C'mon, honey--let's dance!
bobby green		The cops're right outside--let's go.  I said, let's go!
85.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		You don't gotta yell at me, Bobby.  ...[I] was just trying to have a little fun for once, that's all...
bobby green		Lou--no more of this for her.   It's too fuckin' dangerous now.
louis falsetti		 Sure, Bobkes. I mean, she come here.
rosario diaz		Wait!   Lemme get my coat at least!
louis falsetti		You know Bob, everyone's been askin' `bout you. We was all real surprised to hear about your family- -I mean, your father's like J. Edgar Hoover--
bobby green		Yeah--we'll talk later, buddy--I'll call you. But right now I need to get her outta here.
bobby green		You gotta put everything in jeopardy? Huh?
rosario diaz		No! I was just dancing! I didn't say nothing!
bobby green		You know, I don't think you realize how serious this is? 
86.		CONTINUED: BOBBY GREEN  We gotta ride this out, `til this fuckin' thing is over. `Til I can get things back on track.
rosario diaz		Bobby, what do you want from me? I can't go out, I can't do nothing-- it's like I'm in a jail--
bobby green		I know. But I'm workin' on it, I am.  Soon as the trial's over and I get my money back outta impound-- everything'll get better, you'll see.
rosario diaz		It's just, I feel...I feel like it's just you and all those cops all the time. And they look at me like I'm a piece of shit.
bobby green		Rosario--once this's done, we'll go down to Miami... [It'll] be a new thing for us--a lotta opportunities...  I'll talk to Mr. Buzhayev about working for his brother down there. We'll get your mother to come too-- I'll even talk to Jumbo about it.
87.		CONTINUED: 
joseph grusinsky		I'll go in the lead car. You stay with him `til we get to the A.D.A.'s.
jack shapiro		You got it...
bobby green		Thank you... You know Mr. Buzhayev, I come to see you today `cause...with everything that's gone on, I don't think it's a good idea for me to stay in New York anymore. I was hoping maybe you could ask your brother if I could work with him, down in Miami. On his restaurant.
marat buzhayev		I could talk to him. I think he would like you very much.
88.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		I'd appreciate it.
marat buzhayev		We're going to be very sad if you're going. Having you here in this house meant a lot to us. You know, my wife and me, we have only daughters.
bobby green		You always been very important to me too.  I should probably go now.
marat buzhayev		Bobby--you'll always be welcome back here.
vadim nezhinski		They did good.    On his face.
jack shapiro		Shut your fuckin' mouth.
joseph grusinsky		He makes a deal today, maybe my brother don't gotta take the stand... Least that's something...
jack shapiro		Give me that lighter.
89.		CONTINUED:
driver		Holy shit!
joseph grusinsky		Stop the fuckin' car!
burt grusinsky		Hello?   What's the matter? Huh? 
90.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		You know, my Aunt's in Miami. We probably could stay with her for a little bit `til we get settled.
bobby green		Yeah, maybe. Why don't we give `em all these bags to throw out--it's becoming a mess.
burt grusinsky		Nezhinski's out.
bobby green		What--?
burt grusinsky		Your brother was taking him to the A.D.A. and they got ambushed. They hit three of our guys.
bobby green		Jesus...   What about--
burt grusinsky		Your brother's fine. We gotta get you moved--you've been here too long.
91.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		You see something out there?
burt grusinsky		Nah, we're good. It's just, I just realized--I know this neighborhood. I used to come with my father, to work on the plumbing, for the houses--brought me along to do the talking. He only spoke Russian his whole life...  Anyway, it's all changed now.
guard		One more minute, Chief.
burt grusinsky		Arright...
bobby green		Pop?   Joe come close this morning?
burt grusinsky		I don't know... I heard he did good, though. You know, with everything that's happened--who knows? Maybe all this'll bring us closer together someday. 
92.		CONTINUED: BURT GRUSINSKY  Once this is over, you and your brother, you'll talk, you'll work things out.
bobby green		Yeah, maybe.   But you know the way he is.
burt grusinsky		Bobby--your brother, I think he probably feels a little guilty, with everything you did, with you in protection now... But he appreciates what you've done--I know he does.
bobby green		 I know, Pop.
burt grusinsky		 We'll move `em to Corona. I'll lead the line.
bobby green		It's really coming down...
rosario diaz		Bobby--I think I left my watch at the hotel--
bobby green		Hey--Vitt--I think somethin's on our right!
bobby green		Get down!
94.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Rosario!   You hurt?
95.		CONTINUED: 
96.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		Don't fuckin' look at him! I said don't--back up! Don't look at him...
97.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		Bobby?   Could I call my mother...?
jack shapiro		No I.D. on the guys in the car. Probably illegals. But Mike--  --We had that place locked up tight. How they knew where they were, I go no idea.
michael solo		 We gotta get you to a secure location, Bobby--
bobby green		Does my brother know yet?
michael solo		 They had to sedate him.
bobby green		Then you gotta take me to him...  I wanna go see him...
bobby green		Joseph?
joseph grusinsky		...I'll catch `em, Bobby. Don't worry...
bobby green		I don't know if I can do that.   I MEAN--  I saw him die...
undertaker		We know mere words cannot suffice in this time of tragedy. We're so very sorry about your loss...
99.		CONTINUED:
joseph grusinsky		 That's right...
undertaker		Could you come with me please?  We'll be right back.
bobby green		You gonna fuckin' catch these guys?
jack shapiro		All our uncles on the street been hearing about a big deal, goin' down maybe Monday or Tuesday.  They don't know where yet, but...we got a feeling--[now that] Nezhinski's out, he's gonna be there.
bobby green		 You gotta find that spot...
100.		CONTINUED:
michael solo		You and your brother don't gotta worry about any of that. Just take the time you need--
joseph grusinsky		MIKE--
joseph grusinsky		Bobby... I'm real glad you're with me now...
bobby green		Course...
joseph grusinsky		You know, I was...I was jealous of you, [for a] long time.
101.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		No.... I did it to hurt him...   I disappointed him...
undertaker		Gentlemen?
102.		CONTINUED: 
joseph grusinsky		...It's all right... I'll be all right...
bobby green		I can't live like this no more, Mike... They destroyed my family.  There's a deal going down, I... I wanna help...
michael solo		You're a civilian, Bobby. Ain't no way.
bobby green		I, I could join you.
103.		CONTINUED:
michael solo		Bobby, come on--you got your own life to live--
bobby green		 No.   I can't do nothing else now.
michael solo		Then you gotta understand--this ain't something you do just for a vendetta. You gotta go back to the Academy when you're done, you gotta commit yourself.
bobby green		I know.
michael solo		Gimme a couple days--I'll talk to the P.C.
bobby green		Joe, I'm gonna join you. I just decided...  Okay?
bobby green		I wanna talk to you about something.
rosario diaz		Bobby, I don't know if I can be here no more.
bobby green		What're you talking about? I just got through telling you--
rosario diaz		No, I think maybe it's time I leave then--go down to Miami on my own, with my mother.
105.		CONTINUED:
rosario diaz		You know that's not true, Bobby. They're not after me.
bobby green		Hold on a second--I know what I'm talking about'd be a change.  It'd be a big change for us.
rosario diaz		BOBBY--
bobby green		But we could make a life here. This'd be something we could build on. We could raise a family, and...
rosario diaz		No I wouldn't...  They know what I was--what I was DOING--
bobby green		They'll accept you if we're TOGETHER--
rosario diaz		Bobby!
bobby green		Gave it up? Gave up what? 
106.		CONTINUED:  What fuckin' life did you have? You're a fuckin' cokehead--look at you!
rosario diaz		 And you were clean, Bobby? We were TOGETHER--
bobby green		Well, maybe I was a piece of shit too! Wasting my goddamned time!
rosario diaz		How could you say that...? We had PLANS--
bobby green		Wake up!   All that was nothing!
rosario diaz		No! Now is nothing! Look at what's happened to your family, Bobby--your father, he's dead--look at your brother! It could all happen to you!
bobby green		My brother's gonna be all right-- and nothing's gonna happen to me.
rosario diaz		That's what you said before.
bobby green		Hey--where you goin'--
rosario diaz		Get off me!   Let me go!
bobby green		What the fuck you doin'?
rosario diaz		Get off me!
107.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		All right. Why don't you just calm down and think about it a little.
spiro giavannis		The Commissioner is here now, and he's ready to go.
108.		CONTINUED:
commissioner ruddy		We're all very sorry about your father--he was a great man.
bobby green		Thank you, sir. I'm gonna try and do my part too, now.
commissioner ruddy		Good.   Raise your right hand.
bobby green		"I, Robert Green, hereby pledge and DECLARE--
bobby green		"--that I will support and defend the Constitution, both of the United States government and the State of New York, to the best of my ability..."
bobby green		"...I will faithfully discharge my duties in the rank of rider in the New York City Police Department. So help me God."
109.		CONTINUED:
jack shapiro		Everybody's out there, bustin' balls, left and right! What else you want us to do?
uniformed officer		Bobby, a Rosario Diaz's been callin' for you. She says she needs to talk to you.
bobby green		Thanks.   I'll call her back.
joseph grusinsky		What about Nezhinski's uncle? That clubowner--Marat Buzhayev?
110.		CONTINUED:
jack shapiro		Clean. We tailed him for weeks. Goes out with his grandkids, takes `em horseriding at Floyd Bennett Field... Checks on his fur business from time to time--we even looked at some of the coats and tore `em apart. Turned out to be fake sable, if you could believe it.
joseph grusinsky		It's comin' up quick, we don't know anything... We're gonna lose it...
michael solo		Joe--this is still new territory for all of us. I mean, we hadda use your brother here to get any results to begin with.
joseph grusinsky		I know that. And my family takes the hit--my family...
bobby green		Could you guys go outside for a minute? I wanna talk to my brother.
joseph grusinsky		 We don't got much time...we lose Nezhinski, we're both dead... [The] streets'll get flooded, the whole City's gonna be on fire--
bobby green		We could handle it. I mean, I come on to help you--
111.		CONTINUED: 
joseph grusinsky		 Well, I didn't ask you to do that. I don't need your help--I could deal with it on my own.
bobby green		I know. But you don't gotta do everything yourself. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
joseph grusinsky		It's not that. It's just... You give up what you wanted to do to be here, Bobby. And part of me feels a little responsible.
bobby green		Nah, you didn't do nothing. It's meant to be. You can't fuckin' control it...
joseph grusinsky		 You know, I remember when Pop was mad at you, he always used to say you didn't believe in our family. And Mom, she'd protect you. She'd give you those little caramels... Anyway, I knew he was wrong too, but I didn't say nothing.
uniformed officer		Bobby, Rosario Diaz just called again.
bobby green		Tell her I'm on my way back now. 
112.		CONTINUED:  I'll see you later.
bobby green		What happened--where'd she go?!?
guard		She left about an hour ago.   She said to give you this--
bobby green		We gotta go find her!
guard		She asked us not to, Bobby. She's-- Bobby--we can't do that legally!
bobby green		DON'T--FUCKIN'--
113.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		You gonna keep me here? HUH?!?
bobby green		It's me, Lou.
114.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		I'm okay. Listen uh, you ain't spoke to Rosario lately, have you?
louis falsetti		No. She's holed up with you, ain't she?--God knows where.
louis falsetti		Well, I talk to her, I'll tell her you called.
bobby green		Thanks... You know, things are really changing on my end. I ain't gonna be in protection anymore.
bobby green		...I, I don't know...
louis falsetti		My brother!   The Grand Return!
115.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		No...
louis falsetti		 Hey Natasha, over there!
hazel		Why don't you slow down a little? You're already acting stupid!
louis falsetti		And you're already acting like a pain in my ass! I can hold my liquor and yours!
bobby green		Jumbo, I don't want nothing right now--don't worry about it.
marat buzhayev		Good evening. My name is Marat Buzhayev, and I'm the owner of the El Caribe. We have a special night, tonight--the Odessa Dance Troop is here to perform for us. I know you'll enjoy it.
116.		CONTINUED: 
eli mirichenko		My father-in-law would love it if you come upstairs later, to say hello.
bobby green		Okay, Eli.   Tell him I'll come up.
louis falsetti		Bob, you all right?
bobby green		 Rosario--Rosario's gone down to Florida for a little while.
louis falsetti		Florida?  Well, she probably just needed a little time for herself. She'll be back.
bobby green		Yeah...  You know, I was just thinking `bout when I first met her here... Working back there...
louis falsetti		Ah, don't worry, Bob. I have no doubt she'll be back.
117.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		Louis--?  How'd you know where I was staying?
louis falsetti		Huh?
bobby green		How'd you know where I was staying?
louis falsetti		 It was, it was in the papers...
bobby green		It wasn't in no papers, Louis. Don't make me embarrass you. Let's go outside, right now.
bobby green		Where's Nezhinski?
louis falsetti		I don't know--
bobby green		Don't play games with me, Louis.
louis falsetti		But I don't kn--
bobby green		I just said, DO NOT PLAY GAMES WITH ME!  Rosario tol' you where we were staying, didn't she?!? She trusted you...
118.		CONTINUED:
louis falsetti		Bob, we're, we're buddies--we're like brothers! C'mon!
bobby green		You don't mean nothing to me now-- that part of my life is dead.  Today it ended for good...
louis falsetti		Bobby I swear--I don't know nothing!
bobby green		You know my father is dead because of you?
louis falsetti		No, wait! Bob, please!  Don't do this to me Bob, please...
bobby green		You tell me what you know right now or I swear to Christ I will make you disappear.
louis falsetti		Bobby, I... I told `em where you were--but, but it ain't what you think! I was makin' a buy and these guys in hoods, they held a gun to my head--so I tried to give `em the wrong information!
119.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		You tell me, right now--  Where's your fuckin' spot?!?
120.		CONTINUED:
man's voice		Tomorrow.
eli mirichenko		After tomorrow, everybody's gonna get well.
bobby green		Well, he said tomorrow and that's what matters.
michael solo		They're movin' serious weight, we might be talkin' major league firepower. Maybe we call in the Feds. 
121.		CONTINUED:
jack shapiro		The Feds?
michael solo		Each one of `em's got 25 years on the job with this kinda thing, Pudge.
bobby green		They got one year of experience, repeated 25 times.
jack shapiro		Bobby's right.
joseph grusinsky		Yeah, definitely... We'll get the TAC plan together...  And wherever it is, we'll be ready for `em...
michael solo		Arright, guys.    That's it for now.
jack shapiro		JOE--
joseph grusinsky		Yeah?
jack shapiro		You know, they're laughin' at us, out there on the street. Now when we get there, it'll be up to you what we do. But I hope you think about droppin' the hammer on `em.
122.		CONTINUED: 
bobby green		All right, c'mon. Enough...
123.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		We're gonna get all of `em today.
michael solo		Okay--when they complete the sale, that's when we move. ESU'll grab the kids.
124.		CONTINUED: MARAT BUZHAYEV  Each load is completely untraceable. It's my own method.
joseph grusinsky		The deal's closing--let's go!
bobby green		You're surrounded by the police! Come out now, with your hands on your heads!
125.		CONTINUED:
bobby green		Joe?!
126.		CONTINUED:
jack shapiro		Stop!   Halt!
127.		CONTINUED:
michael solo		This's too dangerous. We'll all wind up killing each other--
bobby green		Vadim is in here with us. Radio our guys, tell `em to get into the clearing.
man's voice		Bobby!   We got the old man!
jack shapiro		We got the old man--Buzhayev. Up by the cars. His grandkids are safe--they're in the van.
bobby green		Are all our guys out?
128.		CONTINUED:
michael solo		Bobby?   What're you doin'--
bobby green		I'm not gonna let him get away...
vadim nezhinski		Don't...don't let me die in here...
129.		CONTINUED:
marat buzhayev		Bobby--I, I didn't know it would be your family--
bobby green		Get down!   On the ground!
random officers		Bobby! Hey! Lookit you--six months in the Academy and already you look like a chief!
bobby green		Hey everybody...
michael solo		I just saw the commissioner. A lotta people're gonna wanna talk to you--important people. About maybe settin' you up with your own unit.
bobby green		All right.   We'll talk about that after.
joseph grusinsky		You know, I think Pop would be real happy to see you like this.
bobby green		 I don't think he'd believe it... But I guess things don't always go the way you think they will.
131.		CONTINUED:
joseph grusinsky		Ah, the Force'll treat you good. I'm sure you do very well.
bobby green		You definitely gonna leave? Ain't no way you change your mind?
joseph grusinsky		 It's the right thing. It's over for me--I'm out.
bobby green		Listen, we'll spend some more time together from now on. Okay? I'll come over next week.
joseph grusinsky		Arright, yeah.    Sounds good.
bobby green		Chaplain? I'd like you to introduce me this way. If you don't mind.
police chaplain		Ladies and gentlemen: we shall begin today's ceremony with the traditional invocation, moving then to the valedictorian address to be given by...Robert Grusinsky. Son of the late Deputy Chief Albert Grusinsky, brother of Captain Joseph Grusinsky.
132.		CONTINUED: 
joseph grusinsky		I love you, Bobby.
bobby green		 Love you too, Joe.
****Dialogues from script :What_Lies_Beneath.txt****

claire		Morning, beauty.
claire		Let's go.  Or we'll never leave on time.
caitlin		 I'm totally ready.
claire		Come on, I'll make you some waffles, maybe we'll squeeze in a trip to the mall.  Caitlin...
caitlin		Mother...
caitlin		You're such a morning person.
claire		It is unwise to heckle the keeper of the plastic.
norman		They at it again?
norman		Christ, that's twice in...When did they move in?
claire		I think three...
norman		Three weeks.
claire		What's their name?
norman		Feur, I think.  Psych department.  Figures. They're all psychotic.
claire		She's awake.
norman		We'll be quiet.  Quick and quiet.
claire		I don't want to be either.
norman		When's she out of here?
claire		Norman Spencer.
norman		 Alright.  I can't take the rejection.  I'm going to class.
claire		Don't.
norman		Claire, I have to show up for the--
claire		It's Saturday.
norman		I knew that.  You think I didn't know that?
norman		It's today?
claire		 Yep.
norman		 We're going to have to leave by three if we want to beat the traffic.
claire		 Three o'clock.
claire		...and I still think we should get you some mittens.
claire		Do you have a scarf?
caitlin		Hey.
claire		Yes?
caitlin		It's only two hours away.
claire		I know that.
caitlin		I'll come back all the time.
claire		Of course you will.
caitlin		I'm just saying, you're going to be fine.
claire		Sweetheart, I've known this day was coming for a long time.  I've got your father and the garden and the new house. You really don't have to worry.
claire		Really.
caitlin		 Mom.
caitlin		I have'ta go.
caitlin		I'll call you.
claire		Come home anytime.
norman		Really gonna leave me, huh?
norman		Be good.
caitlin		Bye.
claire		 I almost made it.
norman		Whatcha reading?
claire		 Genetic repair mechanisms in eukaryotic organisms.
norman		 How is it?
claire		Excellent.  Couple of Swedish sailor cells just gang divided a virginal cheerleader cell.
norman		 Almost done.
claire		If you have to work...
norman		No, no.  I'm just about...  There.
norman		How are you?
claire		Fine.
norman		It's okay if you're not.
claire		I am, really.
norman		It's just she's been the focus for a while.
claire		Not the focus.
norman		You know what I mean.
claire		To tell you the truth...I'm excited.
norman		You are...
claire		To get my life back.  To have some time for myself.  Some time for us.
norman		You did a great job.  She's a good kid.
claire		We did.
norman		It's just us now.
claire		I know.
norman		Tired?
claire		Nope.
norman		Wanna fool around?
claire		Yup.
norman		Did you...
claire		Shhh.
norman		Jesus.
norman		I guess they're making up.
claire		What is he doing to her?
norman		And we moved out here for the quiet.
claire		Mmm.
norman		Maybe we should just...
claire		Tomorrow.
norman		I'm finished at three.  No.  Squash with Stan.
claire		After that.
norman		I'll be there.
norman		Love you.
claire		Night.
claire		Hello...
claire		Mrs. Feur?
claire		Wait a minute.  I just want--
claire		It's Mrs...It's Claire...Spencer.  From next door.  Is everything--
claire		Um...yes.
claire		Is everything alright?
claire		Hello?
claire		Who?  Your husband?
claire		What?  What are you afraid of?
claire		Tell me.  Please.
claire		Tell me.  I can help you.
claire		That's not...It's not like that.
claire		I know.  And I'm sorry.  I've been consumed with...my daughter left...for school.
claire		I'm sorry.  It's for the flowers.  Why don't you...
claire		Wait!  Don't go...
norman		Of what?
claire		Of him I think.
norman		Did she say that?
claire		More or less.
norman		Honey, they're young.  They're probably newlyweds.
claire		I'm telling you.  There was something in her voice...
norman		Remember how we were?
claire		Not like this.  We were never like this.  I want to go over there.  After dinner, we can--
norman		Why?
claire		To make sure she's all right.
norman		Claire, honey, we are not going to march next door and accuse our new neighbor of--
claire		 That's not what I'm sug--
norman		...when tonight they'll probably be keeping us awake.
claire		But what if something happens?
norman		Claire...
claire		I'd never be able to live with mysel--
norman		 This is...
claire		I know.
norman		It's what I've been working for.
claire		I just wish you could have heard her.
norman		Look, I'll call Harvey Tomes in the Psych department, see what I can find out.
claire		Promise?
claire		I'll make you some coffee.
claire		 Norman!
claire		Norman, you have to look at this!
norman		Mmnph.
claire		Hurry...
claire		Look!
norman		What is it?  What's the matter?
claire		Nothing.  There was...I thought I saw something.
norman		Is it gone?
norman		Come on, let's go back to bed.
claire		Hey there.
jody		How you holding up?
claire		Good.  I'm good.
jody		You are?
claire		Why does everyone find that so surprising?
jody		 Cause...your...only daughter just went away to school...who you were incredibly close with aaand I'd be tripping...
claire		Okay, I'm a little tender.
jody		Well good.  So you're human.
claire		And so far my day has consisted of taking pictures of my roses for the garden club.
jody		Wow.  Got here just in time.  I brought you this.
claire		What is it?
jody		Kambucha mushroom tea...
claire		Jody--
jody		It soothes heart-ache and promotes psychic wellness.  Sela suggested I bring--
claire		You're discussing me with your psychic?
jody		She's not a psychic.  Just a very enlightened spirit.
claire		Thanks, but I'm fine.
jody		 Notice anything...different?
claire		Oh my god.  You bought it.
jody		Yep.
claire		It's niiice.
jody		Beautiful thing, alimony.  Lose a husband, get a car.  Think it'll help me pick up dudes?
claire		Absolutely.
jody		Listen, I've gotta run.  I just thought I'd stop by and see if you want to take the boat out, say Thursday morning?
claire		You got it.
jody		See you then.
claire		Hello?
claire		 Please tell me you heard that.
claire		Cooper...what do you see?
claire		 Hi.
claire		Oh.
claire		No, no.  It's fine.
claire		Huh?  Absolutely.  Take your time.
claire		 Hello?  I'm looking for Caitlin Spencer.
claire		Oh.  Well, just tell her that her mother called.  Her mother.  Thank you.  Excuse me, how can you study with that?
claire		Oh.  Kay.
claire		Jesus...
claire		Cooper!
claire		Hello...?!
norman		...and then what...Courtney?
courtney		We administer the Halothane.
norman		Dosage?
courtney		Three point five cc's.
norman		Excellent.  Properties?  Andrew from downtown...
andrew		An organic, neuromuscular blocking agent, which when administered in aerosol form temporarily renders the subject immobile.
norman		Nothing but net.
norman		Prudence here's an old friend.
norman		I try to stay on her good side because I owe her my career and most of our grant money.  Why else?
norman		Always do unto others as you'd have others do unto your ewe.
norman		That'll do it.  Write this up for Tuesday!
norman		 What are you doing here?
claire		There were some noises.  I didn't want to disturb you.
norman		What do you mean?  Some noises where?
claire		In the house.  I was scared.
norman		Did you call the police?
claire		No.  Can you drive me home?  I'll bring you back in the morning.
norman		Of course.
claire		It was there.  This angry music all by itself.  And I heard whispering.
norman		What kind of whispering?
claire		I don't know.  Just...whispering.
norman		What'd you see, Coop?
claire		 Tell him!
norman		I'm gonna have the police check on the house.
claire		Oh great, "Can you look in on my wife, she's hearing voices?"  Wait'll that gets around.
norman		I've got the conference next week.  I want you to feel safe.
claire		I do, I do.  I'm sure I'm just...how was your day?
norman		Think I may have cracked it.
claire		Really?
norman		I think so.  Maybe.
claire		You are so brilliant.
norman		Yep.
claire		Madame Curie, Jonas Salk, Norman Spencer...
norman		 You know what that does to me.
norman		 Ohmigod.  You'll never believe...I saw Schumway...
claire		You're kidding.
norman		He's here giving some arcane spiel for the physics department, so Bob Shine introduces us...
claire		Wow.
norman		And he says...you'll fucking love this, he says, "Doctor Spencer, I am a great admirer of your work..."
claire		Well, that's nice.
norman		"...especially Spencer's Theorem..."
claire		 Oh, no...
norman		"...of Perpetual Distances."  Everybody's checking their shoelaces. Pins drop.  "I'm afraid you've mistaken me,"  I say...
claire		 That's...
norman		"...for my father."
claire		I'm so sorry.
norman		Didn't know he was dead, every stinking paper on the globe.
claire		That's just mean.  Oh.  Jody wanted to know if I could get her some.
norman		 Did you tell her?
claire		What?  No.  No.
norman		You didn't?
claire		 Norman, you are so funny about that.  No, I didn't.
claire		I didn't.
norman		Sorry.  You understand.
claire		Did you call about the Feurs?
norman		Oh, right.  Yes.  Harvey says the guy's a sweetheart.  Wouldn't hurt a fly.
claire		Huh.
norman		Do the brilliant Norman stuff some more.
norman		And speak up.
claire		Oh no...
claire		Mrs. Feur?
claire		Hello?  Are you there?
claire		Um...
claire		Right.  Well, I wanted to stop by to welcome you to the uh, to the neighborhood.  I'm Claire Spencer.  From next door.
claire		Well maybe your wife...
claire		When...when will she be back?
claire		Oh-kay...
claire		She's not there.  I haven't seen her since that morning.  Well, I mean, I've never actually seen her, but I'm telling you, she's disappeared.
jody		What are you saying?
jody		You think he killed her?
claire		I don't know.  When you say it, it sounds crazy.  But what else could it all be?
claire		I mean, he's so kind of grim and daunting, and she sounded terrified of something.
claire		 Listen to me.  I sound like some middle- aged Nancy Drew.
jody		Know what I think?
claire		What?
jody		Seance.
claire		Jody, no...
jody		Telling you...
claire		 ...no...no...no...
jody		Just bought this beautiful antique Ouija.
claire		Please.  That's all I need.
jody		Hey, look.
jody		So pretty.
claire		Someone's there.
jody		What?
claire		In the window.  Norman's at work.
jody		I don't...
claire		 There.  In the study.  Don't you see--
claire		Wow.  I'm losing it.
jody		No, you're not.  But a presence in your house is not something to be taken lightly.
claire		Oh boy...
norman		What are you doing?
claire		 Get down!  He'll see.
norman		 What's going on, Claire?
claire		Shhhh.
norman		 Why am I whispering in my own house?
claire		He killed her.
norman		What?
claire		He did.  She's in the picture.  I went over to look and she's gone.  The table was set for one.
norman		And that means he murdered his wife? This is getting ridic--
claire		No, no, no, no.  The soil on the shovel, his shovel...that's clay.  It's not from here, believe me, I...  All right, look at this.
norman		Our house.
claire		No.  Look!  In the window.
norman		It's a flare.
claire		A flare?
norman		From the sun.  It's a reflection on the glass.
claire		It's her!  I'm telling you.  She whispered and turned on the music.  She's trying to contact me!
norman		 It's a ghost.
norman		You took this in the morning, didn't you?
norman		When the sun would be exactly right.
claire		Then why isn't it in any of the other pictures?
norman		A cloud passed.  Or it's a bounce off the lake.  See?
claire		Where is she then?
norman		She could be out.  She could be sick in bed for all we know.
claire		Okay.  Okay.  I'll bet there's...Look at this.
claire		See?
norman		What am I looking at?
claire		 I didn't do that.
norman		Who did?  Mrs. Feur?
claire		Maybe.  Point is...not me.
norman		Right.  And why is she here?  If he killed her, why doesn't she haunt him?
claire		She was lonely, I talked to her.  Norman, I know how it looks, but--
norman		Claire, listen to me.  I know you're under some strain.  But there's no such thing as ghosts.  They don't exist.  Our neighbor did not kill his wife, and I...wait, why aren't you dressed?
claire		Dressed?
norman		Dinner.  With Stan and his new girl.
claire		When?
norman		What do you mean?  Claire, we talked about it.  You didn't want Japanese, I said, Our first date since...
claire		 Oh.
norman		...since Caitlin.  You don't remember this?
claire		Tonight?
norman		Yes, tonight.  We're going to be--
claire		Fashionably five minutes late.
norman		 When you do this, I swear...
claire		 ...Don't get all...
norman		...like it never even happened...
claire		Okay, okay, I'm sure that I just...
claire		What are you doing?
norman		Restaurant.  Let them know we're running late.
claire		Five minutes?
claire		You're not at the center.
norman		 I know I'm not at the center of the bridge.
claire		We're going to be fine.
norman		There we go.
claire		Well, that's a relief.
claire		Hi Stan.  Sorry we're late.  It was my fault.
stan		We just got here.
claire		Where's the new squeeze?
voice		Here I am.
stan		I'd like you to meet...
claire		Elena?
elena		Ohmigod...
claire		Wow.
elena		This is...
claire		 We know each other.
norman		Hope so.
elena		We had this Finnish conductor, Aki, Laki, something.  He had these ridiculous bangs. And he'd sweep them off with his baton every minute or so, and it drove us insane, remember?
claire		He looked like one of the Monkees.
elena		Anyway, Claire slept with him...
claire		I didn't sleep with him.
elena		...just so she could cut them off.
claire		He was so pissed.
elena		I came in from my room...
claire		 We were suite mates.
elena		And there's this brilliant conductor in purple briefs with no bangs cursing his ass off in Finnish.
claire		Oh God...
stan		Well...
norman		 I made an honest woman out of her.
elena		 You should have heard her play.
claire		Stop.
elena		We both auditioned for the Philharmonic. One cello position open.
claire		Do we have to?
elena		And I kicked ass.  My best stuff.  Then I stood in the hallway and listened to her audition...and I cried.
claire		She's making this up.
elena		I'm not.  Couldn't pick up my cello for weeks.
stan		What happened?
elena		She got it.  Turned it down.
claire		I met a dashing young grad student after a recital one night...
claire		...and three months later I was married.
claire		 Caitlin?
girl's voice		 Can you hang up?  I'm trying to make a call.
claire		Gee, that's tricky.  Sure could use some help.
claire		Come on...
claire		I don't need a shrink.
norman		 Harvey says he's amazing.
claire		Norman...
norman		What can it hurt to talk to someone?
norman		Please.
norman		You promised.
norman		 Claire, she's been a huge part of your life for seventeen years.  If you weren't thrown off balance by this, then something would be wrong.
claire		I never said I wasn't upset.  Of course I'm upset.  I miss her terribly.  But I know what I saw and what I heard...and it wasn't some "symptom" of something...
norman		I never said...
claire		...and I don't think I'm some lonely, middle-aged woman cracking up.
norman		Are you lonely?
claire		No!  And I don't need a psychiatrist!
claire		Mine.  His.  We both...thought...
claire		I didn't want to come.
claire		Because he was worried about me.
claire		Yes.  I'm sure he's hoping you'll pack me full of prozac so he can live out his life in peace.
claire		No.
claire		Because, I don't know, because sometimes...sometimes I forget things...and ever since Caitlin left, ever since my daughter left for school, there've been...I fainted and...  Why is this so hard?
claire		You're joking.
claire		 These are good.
claire		There's a ghost in my house.
claire		She finished my solitaire game and turned on the radio...she likes rock and roll. Angry rock and roll.
claire		I saw her in the water.  Beside me.  She was filling the bathtub.
claire		Pretty.  She's a blond.
claire		Um...I'd rather not say...just yet.
claire		What do you think I should do?
claire		What?
claire		You think that'll help?
claire		Are you humoring me?
claire		How?
claire		Is this time okay?
jody		Sit down here.
claire		 Are we hoping the ghost is going to have to pee?
jody		Isn't this where you saw her?
jody		Then this is where she'll be.
jody		Place your fingers on the planchette.
claire		The planchette?
jody		This.
jody		 What's her first name?
claire		I don't know.
jody		I call forth the entity that is haunting this house.
jody		Mrs. Feur?
claire		Nothing's happening.
jody		Shhh.
jody		 Who...who are you?
claire		Are you doing that?
claire		I'm not doing that.
claire		Oh...
jody		M-E...
jody		Mef?  What's Mef?
claire		It's initials.  F is Feur.  It's her.
jody		Shit...
jody		Did you see that?
claire		 What happened to you?
jody		Oh God...
jody		I have to go.
claire		Jody, wait.
jody		Claire, this is...this is...
claire		Jody!
claire		What do you want?!
norman		What are you doing out here?
claire		He killed her.  I'm not crazy.  He killed her and--
norman		This is the Feur thing?
claire		Yes.  And he's going to get away with it.
norman		How do you know this?
claire		We had a seance.
norman		Who did?
claire		Jody and I.  And she was there, Norman, she was.  It scared Jody so bad she had to leave.
norman		How did you--
claire		Jody brought a Ouija board and we summoned her.
norman		Are you angry at me?
claire		What?
norman		Maybe you resent how busy I've been.
claire		What are you...?  No.
norman		You know what I've got at stake with this paper.  You know that.  I can't help but think that you're doing this now to hurt me, or to sabotage me somehow.
claire		Sabotage?
norman		Ever since the accident I've been worried that you'd been unhappy, or...
claire		The accident...?
norman		But then you've been so much better...
claire		Norman, this isn't about you.  This is something that's happening to me.  It's not to get even...and it's not some warped bid for attention.  Some strange things are happening in our house, whether you believe in them or not...
norman		Sweetheart--
claire		No!  Not sweetheart, no.  I believe in what's happening.  I don't want to, but I do.  I guess I was foolish enough to think that would be enough for you.
norman		You're overreacting.
claire		Don't tell me how to react!
norman		Keep your voice down.
claire		I will NOT.
claire		 Maybe you're right.  Maybe I'm losing my mind...
norman		 Claire, please...
claire		...But what if I'm not?  What if she died in terror and betrayal and some part of her can't move on while that's unresolved.  Can't you just...
claire		Wow...
norman		Claire, please...
claire		 You!
claire		You think you're smart, don't you?  You think you got away clean.  Well, I know you killed her.  You drowned her in the bathtub and got rid of her somewhere and I'm gonna find her, you murdering sonofabitch.
claire		 Give me that shit.  Your wife.
norman		 I'm sorry...
claire		 Then where is she?
claire		And his face...it seemed so gentle, and I knew...in that second I knew that I'd imagined the whole thing.
claire		What's happening to me?
claire		Yes, but...
claire		Isn't there something called group hysteria?
claire		Maybe.  I don't know.  I just know that when all this was happening, I felt, some part of me felt...alive.  Like somebody needed me.  And the more I reached out to, it, the fuller it became.
claire		I don't know, I'm very confused right now.
claire		She said, "You know."  That I know.
claire		No.
claire		I felt...pain.  That she'd been hurt by someone.  This is great.  I'm trying to intuit the emotions of a figment of my--
claire		Me?  No.  Well, in the accident I was injured, but...
claire		Last year.  I drove my car up a tree. Nothing serious, this...  ...a minor concussion.  But the car looked bad.  It could have been bad.  I think it scared the hell out of Norman.
claire		Listen, don't hold back.
claire		Well, he's been amazing throughout this whole thing.  Patient and caring...  I mean, sure, he can be obsessed with his work, and...it's a very important time right now with all that.  But, sometimes...I mean with everybody, right? Sometimes it's like...
claire		That he doesn't...see me, or, you know, that I'm...that's something's wrong...with me.
claire		No, it doesn't...Okay, look, I see what you're doing here, and that's, I'm sorry, but that's not it.  My marriage is fine. I've had some kind of "empty-nest" episode where I saw some things that weren't there.  Let's deal with that.  I'm willing to deal with that.  I just don't want to go conjuring problems where none exist.
claire		You do?
claire		And then you weren't there.
claire		Would you like some iced tea?
claire		Thank you.
claire		I...there's something I have to ask you.
claire		That day...at the fence.  You seemed terrified.  I don't think I was imagining that.
claire		Of what?  What were you so afraid of?
claire		Not this week.
claire		What?
claire		Um...sure.
claire		No.  No, I don't.
claire		I would like that.
norman		 Sure you won't stay?
claire		No, it's fine.  I'm fine.
norman		 Really big bed.
norman		Do I have everything?
claire		Yep.
norman		Call ya later.
norman		What?
claire		Are you glad?  I'm glad.
norman		 You know I am.
claire		Good.  You sat in front...I saw you there...
norman		You were lost in the music...eyes closed...your chest heaving...
claire		I felt you...looking through me...
norman		We walked all night...
claire		You told me that I was...
norman		 ...that you were everything I'd ever dreamed of.
young man		They're playing at CBGB's down on Bowery. Probably won't be back for awhile.  You her mom?
claire		Yes.  Who was playing?
young man		Bitch.  Caitlin's band.
claire		 Caitlin's band?
young man		Yeah.  They're really good.  I would have gone, but I have a paper.  And I'm not just saying that because you're a mother.
claire		Thank you.
claire		That was very good.
caitlin		Mom, I'm sorry.  I wanted to tell you. But it never felt right.
claire		Why?
caitlin		I didn't want to bring up memories.  I didn't want to do anything that might make you regret your choices.
caitlin		Besides, Dad would have freaked.
claire		No, he wouldn't.
caitlin		I think playing in a band called "Bitch" might put a dent in the whole "perfect family" thing.
claire		That's not true.
caitlin		Yes it is.  Can we please not do that? Please?  Cause it is.
claire		He loves you very much.  He just--
caitlin		I know he does.
caitlin		Are you mad at me?
claire		Listen to me.  The one thing in life that I definitely don't regret...is the choice. I made to be your mother.
claire		I miss you.
caitlin		So much.
claire		 It got so bad your father almost had to put me away.
caitlin		What do you mean?
claire		I started seeing things.
caitlin		A ghost?
claire		Did you?
caitlin		No.  But once I heard...
claire		What?
caitlin		Someone crying.  A girl.  I thought I was crazy.
claire		 Then we both are.
templeton		There they are.
norman		You remember my wife, Claire.
claire		I am.
templeton		Must've been some paper.  Your father would be very proud.
norman		Uh-huh.
claire		 White wine please.
claire		Jody...
jody		Are you okay?
claire		I think so
jody		I'm sorry for leaving, but I mean, Jesus, Claire...
claire		It's alright.
jody		I mess around with this stuff, but I never thought anything would happen.
jody		Does Norman know?
claire		Jody, she's alive.
jody		What?
claire		Mrs. Feur.  She's alive.  I met her. She's really sweet.
jody		Then what was it?
claire		Nothing.  It wasn't anything.  I've been on edge lately.  Maybe since the accident. And I'd prefer, I really would, to just--
jody		Something was there.  You saw it.
claire		Did I?
jody		Yes.  Now I talked to Sela and there's a guy, this Pakistani guy down in Hartford...
claire		Hartford?
jody		And he's the real thing.  Specializes in cases like this, like yours.
claire		No.  Jody, listen to me.  You have to listen to me.  This is not something that I can do right now.  Whatever it was, it's gone.  I need it to be gone now.
jody		But Claire--
claire		Please.
jody		Okay.  Okay.
claire		I've got to find a bathroom.  I'll call you.
claire		Just fine.  It's a lovely party.
claire		 Almost.
claire		I'm sorry?
claire		Uh-huh.  What can be?
claire		No.  I'm just not sure what you mean.
claire		At the party.
claire		 Ohhh yes.  No, no.  Just a little, you know...We're fine.
claire		Who's that?
claire		Right.
norman		You don't remember?
claire		When she said it, there was something familiar...but no.
norman		You dropped a glass.
claire		I...
norman		A cheap wine glass from the caterers.  You started crying.  I tried to comfort you...
claire		 In the living room...
norman		You shoved me away and ran out to the patio.  I took you home.
claire		But why?  I can't understand how I could just completely--
norman		It was maybe a week after the accident. We were moving.  It was a hard time.
claire		But I don't remember.
norman		Sweetheart, it was over a year ago.
claire		What's wrong with me?
norman		 Please?
claire		Yes.  Yes.  That's what I want.
claire		M-E-F...
voice		 ...she was practically a townie.  Grew up in Bradford.
claire		And she was never found?
voice		 Nah.  She was a live wire.  Had this old Mustang Fastback.  It's gone too.  Most of her friends think she's tooling around Mexico somewhere.  Police downgraded her to a runaway.
claire		Thank you, Mr...
claire		...McCann.
claire		Remember this?
norman		Is this that girl from last year?
claire		Did you know her?
norman		I may have seen her on campus.
claire		Not personally.
norman		No.  I'm afraid to ask what this is about.
claire		 It's her.  This is the woman who I've seen.
norman		The...
claire		Yes.  The ghost.
claire		I thought it was Mrs. Feur, but it's not...
norman		 Stop...
claire		...I'm positive this time...
norman		 ...Please stop...
claire		It's Madison Fra--
norman		STOP IT!
norman		 Claire, I've tried to be there.  I know you're going through something that I can't understand...but it's enough.
norman		Do you want to go see someone?  Together? Should we call Dr. Drayton?
norman		Well then what?  Claire, what?  Tell me what I can do.
claire		It's her.
claire		I don't want to make you angry.  But she's here.  And I don't know why...
claire		Mrs. Frank?
claire		I'd like to talk to you about Madison.
claire		No, I don't.
claire		She's my friend.
claire		Was.  We were...acquainted.  I've been away for awhile.  When I came back...
claire		Claire.
claire		It's fine.
claire		I'm not.  We...we met at a party.
claire		She never mentioned her father.
claire		I don't know.
claire		You must have been very proud.
claire		I should be going anyway.
claire		Of course.
claire		What was her major?
claire		I need to know the truth.
claire		Madison, please...help me.
claire		What am I doing?
claire		Hello, Dr. Spencer.
norman		Mrs. Spencer.
claire		Forbidden fruit...
claire		Got a problem with that...
norman		I take it your not mad at me.
claire		Wouldn't go that far.
norman		 Okay...
norman		What's gotten into you?
norman		Ow!
claire		What's the matter?
norman		It's too rough.
claire		Since when?
norman		I don't like this, this...
claire		 Why don't you shut up and fuck me, Professor.
claire		 I think she's starting to suspect something.
norman		 Who?
claire		 Your wife...
norman		STOP IT!
norman		What the hell are you doing?!
claire		 "You know..."
norman		 What?
claire		I was there.
norman		Claire--
claire		 I came to work in the garden and I saw you with her...in my house.
norman		Oh God...
claire		I snuck back to my car, trying to convince myself it never happened.  And when I woke up in the hospital...somehow it hadn't.  Until now.
norman		It was last year.  We were having troubles.
claire		So you fucked a student?!
norman		 That's not what I'm sayi--
claire		 DON'T touch me.  Just get away from me. Go!
claire		I SAID GET OUT!
claire		Fine...
norman		 Claire, please don't...
claire		What did you think I would do?  Jesus Christ!  I gave up my life and my music...
norman		I never asked you to quit!
claire		...Oh BULLSHIT.  You had to topple perfect Daddy and that meant perfect wife, perfect family...
norman		THAT'S NOT TRUE!  You wanted to quit!  And then when you did, you hated me for it... so you gave it all to her.
claire		Who?
norman		To Caitlin!!
claire		Leave her out of this!
norman		And then out of nowhere, some bright young woman found me attractive...
claire		Stop...
norman		...would do anything just to be around me.  And I slipped.  God help me, I slipped.
claire		I'm not going to listen to this.
norman		I tried to break it off!
claire		You should have tried harder.
norman		Claire...
claire		 Get out of my way.
norman		PLEASE DON'T GO!
claire		You made it impossible for me to be someone you could be in love with.
claire		I want you to answer one question.
claire		Did you have anything to do with her disappearance?
norman		Yes.
norman		She was damaged and unstable.  The more I tried to distance myself, the more desperate she became.  Finally, she showed up at the new house...
claire		How did she know where it was?
claire		 Our dream house.
norman		She was out of control.  She said she was going to kill herself...or you.  I never thought she'd go through with any of it, but then she was gone...
claire		She did it.
norman		We don't know that for sure.
claire		Of course she did, Norman.  What else could it be?
norman		Oh God, what have I done?  How could I have let this into our lives?
claire		I don't know.
claire		...and everything I have, everything I thought my life was...Christ when I think of all the lies...
claire		What?  Jody what?
claire		Oh God...you knew.
jody		I was down in Adamant...
claire		Adamant?
jody		Artsy little village down seven.  There's a guy there who sells my work.  I had just dropped off some paintings and as I got in my car...I saw Norman sitting at this little cafe.
jody		I started to walk over...but he wasn't alone.  A blond.  I only caught a glimpse. She was young.  I should have said something right away. But I didn't.
claire		Why?
jody		Partly because I didn't want to hurt you...but partly...partly because I was relieved.
claire		Relieved?
jody		I had just been left by Richard.  I was bitter and miserable and for some fucked up reason, it made me feel better that your life wasn't as perfect as it seemed.
jody		By the time I finally got up the nerve to tell you, Stan called from the hospital and it was too late.
claire		Too late?  Jody, it was an accident.
jody		Alone?  On a two lane road?  With a ton of Valium in your system?
jody		I got there first.  Stan covered up the pills and I had it out with Norman.  He seemed desperate not to lose you.  He promised to handle it.  And we all let it drop away.
claire		All of us.
jody		I'm a terrible friend.
claire		No.
claire		How could I expect you to tell me something that I wouldn't even tell myself?
jody		What are you going to do?
claire		I don't know.
jody		If she was dangerous before--
claire		She could have hurt me if she wanted to.
jody		You don't know that.  If it's your belief that gives her form, then you've got to shut her out.  Somehow you have to break the connection.
claire		No.  She wanted me to know the truth.  Now that I do...I think she's at peace.
claire		Norman?
claire		Oh God...
claire		No, no.  Please no...
claire		Norman!!  Wake up!  Please!
claire		Oh God...NORMAN!
claire		It's me...it's me...
heavy woman		Vitals are good.  I'd take it easy for a couple of days.
norman		Thanks.
stan		They'll take you for a CAT scan tomorrow if you're feeling dizzy at all.
norman		That won't be necessary.
norman		Not unless there's a miracle drug for clumsiness.
claire		Jody, she tried to kill him.
jody		I know.
claire		I can't believe this is happening.
jody		We need help.  Please let me call the medium.
claire		That could take days.  I need to do something now.  Don't you see?  She wants us dead.
jody		Alight, alright.  Stay calm.  You opened this door.  There's got to be a way that you can close it.
claire		Like what?
jody		I have an idea.  But, I mean, I'm just making this up...
claire		What is it?
claire		Sorry.  Better or worse, he's mine.
norman		Are you okay?
norman		We have to get out of here.
claire		It's alright.
norman		Can't you see, she's trying to kill us.
claire		She's gone.
norman		What?
claire		She can't be here without me.
norman		How can you be sure?
claire		I don't know, but I am.  She was there and then she was gone.  I felt it.
norman		Claire...
claire		It's over.
norman		I know it's going to take awhile before things are back...until they're better than before.  But you've given us a chance to make a fresh start.  And I'm going to spend the rest of my life making you glad that you did.
norman		Last sail of the year.
claire		The leaves...
norman		Incredible.  We should take a drive before they're gone.  Spend the night at some cozy little bed and breakfast.
claire		Look for antiques...
norman		Yep.  There's some great places nearby.
claire		 Adamant.
norman		What?
claire		Little village down seven.  Supposed to be charming.
norman		Huh.
claire		Do you know it?
norman		Don't think so.
claire		Maybe we can stop there for lunch.
norman		Whatever you'd like.
claire		But he acted like he'd never heard of it.
jody		Did he say that?
claire		Jody he was lying.
jody		What if he was?  Do you think he wanted to bring that up again just when you're trying to make a new start?
claire		I guess not.
jody		He's trying to put it behind him, Claire. You should too.
jody		You've got a beautiful life.  And even with this, it's always been clear that he loves you.  I've come to think that's all that really matters.
claire		I don't know...
jody		Trust me, Claire.  You hear something... change the subject.  You find something... get rid of it, throw it in the lake.  You know what happened.  The rest is only details.  And no one's ever glad they got a hold of those.  If you want to put this back together...just let it go.
norman		What's that for?
claire		Nothing.
norman		I'm cooking you dinner.
claire		You don't have to do that.
norman		I know.
claire		Fine.  I'll do the shopping.
hippie woman		What are you looking for?
claire		I don't really know.
hippie woman		Know what you mean.
claire		Looking for this?
claire		She's out there isn't she?  She's in the lake.
norman		Okay.  Don't...you don't understand what this is.
claire		Don't I, Norman?  YOU KEPT THE FUCKING NECKLACE.  Of a woman you killed!
norman		 I did NOT!  I did not kill anyone.  Jesus. Claire, listen to me.  I walked in and she was lying there dead.  I swear to you.  On my life!  She took pills and she killed herself in our house to destroy me!  To destroy us!  If I hadn't stopped by here before school, the painters would have--
claire		I don't believe you.
norman		IT'S TRUE.  That's...you have to believe me!  Oh God, I'm telling you the truth!  I couldn't just stand there while everything-- my career, us, everything, just washed away.  Don't you see, Claire?  She's doing this!  This is exactly what she wants you to think!
claire		I don't know what's true anymore.  But that girl must be brought up.  Now do you want to call the police?  Or should I?
norman		Fine.  I can't live with it anymore.
norman		This is Dr. Norman Spencer.  No, it's not an emergency.
norman		I have some information about a missing girl, Madison Frank...Yes.  Could you send an officer?  Fifteen Willoughby, about a mile before the bridge...Thank you.
norman		You did the right thing.  I'm going to get cleaned up.
voice		 Directory assistance...
norman		God, how did we come to this?
norman		The ghost stuff, that was impressive.
norman		I figure you saw her that day in the house and just gradually intuited the whole damn thing.  That would be pretty astonishing.  A passive-aggressive masterpiece.
norman		Wasn't until the shower that I realized you actually believed it.  Nearly froze to death waiting for you.  Thought the circuit breaker would kick back over and I'd be toast.
norman		The crazy thing is...I have never for one moment stopped loving you.
norman		Don't worry about Caitlin.  I'm sure in some tragic way this'll bring us closer together.
norman		If anything ever happened to her, I'd...  Anyway, thanks.
norman		 I'm so sorry.
claire		 Mmmuh...
norman		Shhhh.
claire		 Mauduh...
norman		What?
claire		MADISON!
norman		That's a little much, don't you think?
norman		Oops.  Can't have that.
claire		Come on...come on...
claire		Shit.
claire		Norman...NO...
claire		 Norman, please...
claire		Think of Caitlin...
claire		Rest in peace.
****Dialogues from script :When_a_Stranger_Calls.txt****

wife		Where's the girl?
doctor		I only called her ten minutes ago --
wife		 I made our reservation for 8:15. We're going to be late.
doctor		Here she is now.
jill		Dr. Minakis?
doctor		Mandrakis. It's okay. Everyone gets it wrong the first time. You're Jill? Come on in.
jill		 Thank you.
wife		I've written the number of the restaurant on the notepad by the phone.  If we aren't home in two hours, it means we've decided to go on to a movie and won't be back until after midnight. Is that all right?
jill		Sure.
doctor		 I've told my service to pick up any calls coming in to my office phone.
wife		The children are asleep upstairs -- first door on your left at the top of the landing. They're both just getting over a cold -- so try not to wake them.
jill		Okay.
wife		Do you have any questions?
wife		We have to go now. We're late.
doctor		Make yourself at home. The refrigerator's loaded.
wife		 Goodbye.
doctor		We even have some low-fat yogurt.
doctor		Bye.
jill		Nancy?
jill		All right.
jill		Yeah, I've been here for about an hour already.
jill		I guess... I haven't looked around very much.
jill		No, they were asleep when I got here.
jill		You didn't happen to talk to Billy today, did you?
jill		Did he say anything about me?
jill		It's what I didn't do.
jill		Do me a favor, Nance.
jill		Do you think you'll be talking with Billy some time tonight?
jill		That isn't what I had in mind.
jill		Nancy, all you want to do is come over here and get drunk.
jill		 Who? Me?
jill		I've got a lot of work to do. I don't want you coming over!
jill		You are my friend.
jill		Listen, just give Billy the number here, but don't tell him I told you to. Okay?
jill		Okay, Nancy. Bye. And thank you.
jill		Hello?
jill		Billy?...
jill		What?
jill		Hello?
jill		Mrs. Mandrakis?
jill		Hello!
jill		Billy! I don't think this is very funny!
jill		...Who is this?
jill		Hello, I'd like to speak to Dr. Mandrakis. This is his babysitter.
jill		Yes?
jill		Forty minutes?
jill		 Okay. Thank you.
jill		Hello, Operator? Can you get me the police?
jill		Yes!  No, not really.
jill		Please.
jill		Hello, I've been getting phone calls, every fifteen minutes or so. I think it's a man. He's trying to scare me.
jill		That's right.
jill		No.
jill		No. He just keeps calling me. Sometimes he doesn't say anything.
jill		No, I'm just the babysitter.
jill		Oh...
jill		What?
jill		No, I... You're probably right. It's nothing to worry about.
jill		No, the people I'm babysitting for might try to reach me.
jill		Okay. Thank you.
jill		Goodnight.
jill		Hello?
jill		I called you before... about the man who keeps calling me?
jill		He called me again.
jill		No, he's out there somewhere.
jill		In the neighborhood. He's been watching me... through the windows.
jill		No. I know he's there.
jill		Yes.
jill		Yes. Everything.
jill		Please, can't you help me? I'm all alone.
jill		He will call again! I know he will!
jill		3317 Oakridge Drive.
jill		But he never stays on that long! Sometimes he hangs up after just a couple of seconds.
jill		Jill Johnson.
jill		Yes.
jill		Okay.
jill		Thank you.
jill		Hello?
jill		I know. Who are you?
jill		I won't be here much longer. The doctor and his wife are coming home soon.
jill		Can you see me?
jill		 I'm sorry I turned the lights down. It didn't work anyway. I can turn them back up if you like --
jill		Don't?  Is that what you wanted?
jill		What do you want?
jill		You don't know me. You don't know who I am or where I live. I'll get Dr. Mandrakis to drive me home. Him or the police.
jill		I want to talk to you.
jill		Leave me alone!
clifford		Are the parents here yet?
clifford		Christ!  What a homecoming!
garber		We were only a block away when the call went out. When we got here, the guy was still waiting upstairs in the children's bedroom. He was covered with blood.
clifford		Blood?
garber		Not his own. The children had been dead for several hours.
clifford		Jesus...
garber		He'd been using an old phone in their bedroom that the parents had never had disconnected.
clifford		Who is he?
garber		We found a Merchant Seaman's card on him. He's English. Entered the country less than a week ago.
clifford		How about the babysitter?
garber		She's going to be all right.
master		So you're in business for yourself now.
clifford		 Yes, sir, for the past three and a half years.
master		That's good.  And you'd heard about Curt Duncan's escape?
clifford		Oh, yes.
master		Do you think the police will... find him?
clifford		I know they haven't assigned anyone to it specifically. It's an old case.
master		 Can you find him?
clifford		Yes. Maybe not tomorrow, maybe not this week, but I'll find him.
master		He could be anywhere by now.
clifford		I don't think so... because he's a foreigner. He'll come back to the city. After six years in confinement, it's the only place that's familiar to him. That's important.
master		A man murders two children in cold blood. A jury declares him insane. How could such a person not be?
master		He is sent to a state mental institution where the security is... less than perfect. And he escapes. It... it isn't fair.
mandrakis		A thing like that should never be allowed to happen again.
clifford		I couldn't agree with you more.
mandrakis		Go ahead then. My accountant will contact you.
clifford		Thank you.  How is Mrs. Mandrakis?
mandrakis		She is... unable to have any more children.
clifford		I'm sorry. Please give her my best.
mandrakis		Of course.
clifford		You gave him electric shock?
clifford		It says here thirty-eight... thirty- eight times.
clifford		What will happen to him now, without the drugs he was on?
clifford		During the time that you had him here, did you discover any particular habits of his, peculiarities, quirks, anything that might help me find him?
clifford		Any letters from people back in England? Family?
clifford		Let's get something straight here, Doctor. I've been 33 years in the business of tracking people down and putting them away. I spent almost a year on Curt Duncan alone, with the trial, the testimonies, the background investigations. I didn't come here today to look in your goddamn folders. In fact, I wouldn't have come here at all if you'd done your job right.
clifford		 Assuming he isn't found right away... what will happen to him?
retired man		Rackin' 'em up today, Bill?
bill		 Doin' all right.
hank		C'mon in and shut the door.
hank		 Hey! What'll it be?
clifford		Did he have any money with him?
clifford		Duncan had it?
clifford		What is it?
clifford		 Are you being serious?
clifford		Duncan was Catholic?
clifford		 That makes three of us.
tracy		 A little action for your game?
bill		 What, him?
tracy		I wouldn't bet against you.
bill		What's the matter? You don't like me playing with myself?
duncan		Hi.
duncan		What you been up to?
tracy		 Thanks for the light. Okay?
duncan		Next round's on me.
tracy		 Listen, mister, I've got my own money. So, if you don't mind...
duncan		After what I been through, I don't mind anything.
duncan		See, that's the whole point. My mind... Your mind... Where do they fit in? You know what I mean?
duncan		 Do you live around here?
tracy		Get offa me!!
duncan		 Listen, I didn't mean nothin'. I don't live around here. See -- ?
bill		I think an apology is in order.
bill		That the best you can do?
bill		I think you'd better just move along, pal.
hank		He'll be okay now, Bill. He just --
bill		No! I want him out of here!
bill		 Go on, beat it.
bill		I'm not going to say it again, mister.
bill		Who're you calling?
bill		 You're welcome, baby!
bill		 Okay?
old man		Good riddance to bad rubbish, eh, Bill?
hank		 A fight breaks out, there's gonna be damages. Insurance company doesn't pay without a police report...
bill		You see any damages?
bill		See ya 'round.
hank		 No, it's over now...
man		 What the hell -- !
garber		 What is all this?!
scattered voices		Happy birthday, Charlie!
woman's voice		Look at him!
man's voice		Don't shoot us, Charlie!
garber		 How was I supposed to know?
garber		Will you tell me what this is about, Cliff?
clifford		Yeah, in a minute.
garber		I don't think I can take any more of these surprises.
garber		Okay now, what's the big deal?
clifford		Stand still. I want you to remember this in the morning.
garber		If you want me to remember something in the morning, then tell it to me in the morning.
clifford		Charlie, come on.
clifford		No. I got a job today, tracking someone.
garber		That's great, Cliff; I'm sure you'll find your man.
clifford		It's Curt Duncan.
garber		What?
clifford		I need your cooperation on this one.
garber		Sure. Anything.
tracy		Oh, it's you!  What do you want?
duncan		 ...Came to apologize. I...
tracy		Look, I'm the one who should be sorry. I didn't want that to happen.  Oh, God! Look at you. Are you all right.
duncan		I'm new in town. Don't know anybody...
tracy		 Where're you from?
duncan		 New York. Ever been there?
tracy		Sure. Sure I've been there.
duncan		Kind of a mean place to be. Everyone cold, unfriendly...
tracy		 Excuse me.
tracy		 ...No, I just got in... I don't know if I can... Listen, I can't talk now. Can I call you back?... Okay... Goodbye.
duncan		I'm not from New York, actually. But I'm very, very far from home.
tracy		Look, you can't come in here.
duncan		 I thought we might get some coffee. Can I buy you -- ?
tracy		I don't think so.
duncan		Someplace nearby?
tracy		Not tonight. You'd better go.
duncan		I got no place to go.
tracy		 You can't --
duncan		Just, just a little coffee?
tracy		Maybe tomorrow.
duncan		Okay, tomorrow. When?
tracy		I said maybe. I don't know.  Listen, I'm sorry about this afternoon. I really am. All right? That was my boyfriend on the phone. He's coming over. So please leave. Now.
duncan		I like you.
tracy		 Look, do you want me to call the cops?
duncan		 It's okay. It's okay.
duncan		I'll see you later... sometime. I still want to buy you that drink.
clifford		Jesus, I don't recognize anybody.
garber		Three years is a long time in a place like this.
clifford		Three and a half.
wc		Hiya, Cliff. Howya doin'?
clifford		 Hi...
garber		How long will you be here?
clifford		Depends on how lucky I get.  I'll only be coming around once, maybe twice a week.
garber		You want to use your old desk? Someplace to sit down?
clifford		 Is it vacant?
maintenance man		Okay, man, move it out. Let's go.
cheater		Wha -- ?
old woman		There's another one down there.
maintenance man		Hey!
maintenance man		 Come on, bright eyes. Wake up. Wake -- Jesus Christ! What happened to you?
maintenance man		I'm sorry, man, but you can't stay in here. Go out to the park, lay in the sunshine. You'll feel better. Okay?
maintenance man		God bless it! Hey!
maintenance man		Out. Out. Out. Out. Out.
cheater		 All right! All right!
cheater		Whaddya say, pardner. I'm dry as a bone. You got any money?
cheater		You neither, huh?  My name is Morgan, but it ain't J.P. Guess I better go to work. Take 'er easy now, pardner.
tracy		Who is it?
tracy		A what?
tracy		What do you want with me?
tracy		I've got nothing to say about anything or anybody.
tracy		Have you got a badge?
clifford		I don't carry a badge. I'm issued a license, a piece of paper, and I left it at home. You're Tracy Fuller?
clifford		Can we sit down?
clifford		Do you recognize this man?
tracy		Why?
clifford		He's escaped from the insane asylum. In 1972, he murdered two children... broke into a house and found them asleep in bed. It was a little boy, five an a half, and a little three- year-old girl. After the coroner's investigation, their bodies were taken to the mortuary, where the undertaker took one look at them and said he couldn't have their bodies reconstructed for the funeral without six days of steady work. Then he asked what had been the murder weapon, because looking at the mess in front of him, he couldn't imagine what had been used. The coroner told him there had been no murder weapon. The killer had used only his hands.  The undertaker went to work and had them done in four.
clifford		What's the matter?
tracy		 He's been here.
clifford		Let's play it safe. Let's assume that he will.
hank		You again?
clifford		What are your hours tonight?
hank		No hours. Bar's closed on Mondays.
clifford		I want you to be open if that's possible.
hank		 No way. Monday's my night off. Come back tomorr...
clifford		 This is tomorrow! Now what are your hours?
garber		 Any luck?
clifford		I've come to say goodbye, and thank you.
garber		You found him?
clifford		I think so.
garber		Where?
clifford		From here on, I go it alone.
garber		What's the point of chancing it, Cliff? We'll let you take the credit.
clifford		No.
clifford		I'm going to kill him, Charlie.
clifford		The closer I get to this guy, the more I... It gets to me. I don't know...
garber		I think you'd better go on home, Cliff. You've fallen in.
clifford		No. Not this time. This is the case that makes up for a whole career. If you can't understand it now, you will in a few years.
garber		What part does money play in all this? Play straight with me.
clifford		 For what I'm being paid, it's not out of line.
garber		Who's hired you for this?
garber		 So you're a hitman now.
clifford		 He murdered two kids in cold blood. You were there, too.
garber		You could get busted.
clifford		I understand that.
garber		What are you going to use?
clifford		Jimmy needles.
garber		You're stretching our friendship, Cliff. If you blow this at all --
clifford		You'll never hear from me again.
garber		Take your time. Do it right.
clifford		Don't worry.
garber		Do you need any help preparing for this thing?
clifford		 I'm ready. I'm just trying to think where he could be in the meantime.
waitress		What happened to you?
waitress		You get mugged?
duncan		Black.
waitress		Coffee's twenty-seven.
waitress		 Coffee's twenty-seven cents. Ya got it or don't ya?
waitress		Okay, buster, one cup. On the house.
waitress		Drink it and be on your way.
waitress		You're welcome.
duncan		No, thank you.
cheater		Well! I can't say much for your protocol, but your timing's dead on. Here's to you, pardner.
clifford		 I'm looking for an old buddy of mine, English fella. Name's Crazy Curt. Any of you guys seen him?
clifford		I owe him some money.
cheater		Aaahh. Show me an honest man...
clifford		 Stands about so. Brown hair. Face kind of banged up. Was in an accident.
cheater		Oh, yeah? I was just with that guy, not more'n an hour ago. Looked bad. Crazy Curt, huh?
clifford		Where?
cheater		Hell, I can't remember. Prob'bly see him again though. Tell you what. You leave the money with me, I'll see he gets it... as a favor to you.
clifford		I have to talk to him.
cheater		Whatsa matter? You don't trust me? I'll have you know I used to be a college professor. We can work together.
clifford		Sure. Keep the bottle. I'll be back.
cheater		"Long life to the grape! For when summer is flown, The age of our nectar Shall gladden our own." That's Shelley, you know.
customer		Hey, Hank, what're you doing open tonight?
hank		 Trying to make a buck.
hank		Keep it, honey. My treat.
customer		 That how you make a buck?
clifford		 No luck. You see him?
clifford		He still could be out there, though.
tracy		 Oh, God...
clifford		Are you all right?
tracy		I'm okay.
clifford		I'm going to hang around outside for awhile. I'll be back on and off again all night.
clifford		Are you sure you're okay?
tracy		I'm fine.
clifford		All right. Bolt your door. Don't let anybody in, no matter what.
tracy		Okay.
clifford		I'll be seeing you.  Listen. Thanks.
tracy		Sure.
duncan		 I want you to be my friend.
duncan		Please...
seaman		So this will be your first time?  An old salt like you?
seaman		 You'll love it here. It's where they make the bombs. It's where they make the planes that carry the bombs; the planes we saw over Singapore and Manila.
seaman		There she is. That's America.
cheater		Hail fellow well met, and all that jazz. It's our lucky day!  A friend of your's got money for you. We got to get back to the park and meet him.
cheater		C'mon. He'll be comin' for you, Crazy Curt. S'got some money.  We'll get us a little joy juice.
cheater		C'mon! Hey!! You really are crazy! C'mon!
cheater		"Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow, you cataracts and hurricanoes, spout till you have drench'd our steeples and drown'd the cocks!"
clifford		Duncan. Duncan. It's over now. Come on out.
clifford		My name's John Clifford. I'm a private detective. I've been hired by Alexander Mandrakis to take you back. I'm not going to hurt you.
clifford		 I'm not going to hurt you... I'm not going to hurt you... There'll be no more pain... You're safe now...
duncan		 No! Mandrakis! No!
tracy		Now... it's been years. They're grown up.
tracy		I look at where I am now. I know I could've done better, but... it's too late for that.
clifford		 I know.
tracy		Well, you've got to keep looking, I suppose.
clifford		I don't think he'll come back here.
clifford		 Thanks... for all your help.
clifford		I know it wasn't easy.  Maybe, someday, I'll be able to...
tracy		I wish you wouldn't leave me altogether...
tracy		 I'm not a young woman anymore. I've given up all my dreams of the future. Now, I just want to make it to the end. You know what I mean.
clifford		I'll be around.
tracy		Sure.
clifford		You like ice cream?
tracy		Yes.
clifford		What flavor?
tracy		Chocolate chip.
clifford		 Okay.
jill		 Well, look what the wind blew in!
stevie		Mommy, what's for dinner? Could we have hamburgers?
jill		 Is that all you ever want?
stevie		Hello?
stevie		Daddy, Junie threw my baseball down the street; and I can't find it!
stevie		Okay. Bye, daddy.
jill		Hi.
john		Hi, babe -- whaddya say you put on a sexy dress, and I take you out to dinner tonight?
jill		Great... what's the occasion?
john		 Just a little surprise.
jill		What?
john		I'm leaving here now; be home in half an hour.
jill		Okay, see ya.
john		Bye, babe.
houseboy		Dr. and Mrs. Mandrakis are out of town.
clifford		For how long?
houseboy		Three more weeks.
clifford		It's just as well. Will you be here?
houseboy		Yes.
clifford		Here. Call if you need me.
stevie		...I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. God bless Mommy and Daddy and...
june		And me.
stevie		...and Granmom and Aunt Lucy and Uncle George...
june		And me!
stevie		 ...and her. Now will you tell us a story?
jill		No, I will not tell you a story. You go to sleep now. And be good. Carol will be here while we're gone.
stevie		Goodnight.
june		Mommy, will you come here a minute? I want to tell you something.
jill		What is it?
june		Come closer.
june		I love you.
jill		I love you, too, Junebug.  Goodnight. Sleep tight.
jill		Hi, Carol.
carol		Hello, Mrs. Lockhart. I saw your picture in the paper the other day. Congratulations.
jill		Ugggh... wasn't it a dreadful picture?
john		I thought it was nice.
john		Are the kids asleep?
jill		They will be soon.  Here's the number of the restaurant. Call us if you need us. For police, ambulance, any emergency like that,
carol		Nine-one-one? Oh, sure.
jill		And just in case, I've written the number of the children's Uncle George and Aunt Lucy here, too.
john		Honey, in ten seconds I eat the staircase.
jill		Okay. Okay.
jill		 Here.
john		 I'm not wearing that thing!
carol		Have a good time.
jill		Thanks, Carol.
john		 Bye, Carol.
carol		Goodbye.
jill		Goodbye.
carol		Hi. It's me.
carol		Can you come over?
carol		 Ohhh...
john		 I've eaten enough breadsticks to turn into a pretzel.
jill		John, tell me about the surprise.
john		Oh, yeah. Brace yourself.
jill		I'm braced.
john		Good. I got the sack today.
jill		What sack?
john		The can... I was fired!
jill		Oh, sure.
john		You don't believe me?
jill		No, I don't believe you.
john		Well, Wally did call me into his office today. And he did tell me I didn't have my old job anymore.
jill		 John, what did you get?
john		Are you ready for this?
jill		 District Sales Manager!
john		Regional!
jill		Regional?!
john		Nah, District.
jill		 John, I don't believe it! District Sales Manager!
jill		Well, it's about time!
jill		 It's about time they recognized you for what you are.
waiter		Enjoy your dinner, folks.
john		 I'll be the youngest District Manager in the company's history. God, am I hungry!
jill		 Does this mean a raise?
john		It sure does.
jill		How much?
john		A lot.
jill		How much?
jill		You're kidding! And a car?
john		And a car.
jill		John, I'm so proud of you.
john		What's the matter? You don't like your food?
jill		That's right.
jill		Eat your dinner. It's probably Carol. I'll talk to her.
jill		Hello?
john		Jill, what's happening? What's wrong?
jill		It was him! Somebody call the police! Help me!
john		Wait a minute! Just hold on! Sweetheart, what was him? What are you talking about?
jill		That man... Curt Duncan... He's home again! He's got our children!
john		He was on the phone?
carol		Hello?
john		Hello, Carol, it's Mr. Lockhart. What's going on over there?
carol		Nothing's going on.
john		Is everything all right?
carol		Yes, there's nothing --
john		Are you sure?
carol		Everything's fine. Why? What's --?
john		Carol, listen to me very carefully. If there's a man in the house, if there's any reason why you can't talk to me right now, just answer yes to me over the phone. That's all. If there's any danger of any kind, just say yes.
carol		I don't understand what's happening. What man in the house?
jill		Carol, it's Mrs. Lockhart. Answer me truthfully. When was the last time you looked in on the children?
carol		About forty-five minutes ago. Everything's fine. They were fast asleep.
john		Carol, I'm sorry about all the hysterics. We're leaving the restaurant now. We'll explain everything when we get home. Before we hang up, could you do just one more thing for me, please?
carol		What?
john		Would you go upstairs and, and check on the children for me?
carol		Sure. Hold on.
john		 Officer, I'm John Lockhart. Just a second please, and I'll explain everything.
jill		 I'm Jill Johnson, the babysitter seven years ago with the child killer.
john		The babysitter. The guy got into the house and killed the two children upstairs.
john		That's right. That's the one.
jill		 Hello?
jill		Carol?
jill		 Carol? Carol?!
john		Carol? Carol?
john		Jill!
june		 Mommy?
jill		Sshhh...
jill		What are you thinking about?
john		If I ever get my hands on the guy that made that call...
jill		John, it wasn't a prank. I know that voice.
john		He disguised it though, didn't he? Same as before?
jill		I know that voice.
jill		How can we just sit here?
john		Look, we promised never to talk about this.
john		What are we supposed to do? Leave town? Take the kids and lock ourselves up somewhere? Come on... Let's get a good night's sleep, and in the morning we can rethink this whole thing.
jill		Nothing has to be rethought. And I'm not about to fall asleep.
john		Try to relax, honey. I'm here. We're both here. The house is locked up. The cops'll be just outside all night long. We're safe now.
jill		That's what they told me before.
john		Okay. Look. If it'll make you feel any better...
john		I'll keep it right here beside me all night. You know I'm a light sleeper and a damn good shot. Are you satisfied?
jill		John, I'm sorry to be putting you through all this.
john		Hey, you're not putting me through anything that you don't have to go through yourself. I'm with you all the way. Trust me. Okay?
john		That's my girl.
jill		 Honey...
jill		Not so loud. You're going to wake the children.
john		 Here, take a couple of these. They're just what the doctor ordered.
garber		Hey, Tucker, lemme see that a minute.
garber		You guys have a stake on the house?
garber		 Thanks.
garber		Cliff?... I think I got something for you...
clifford		Can you dial a local number for me?
clifford		Operator, what does that mean?
clifford		Why don't I get a recording?
clifford		Yeah, okay. Thanks.
jill		Stevie... Stevie...
stevie		 Yes?
jill		Stevie, listen to me. Where did you get this candy?
stevie		What?
jill		Where did you get this?
stevie		 The man gave it to me...
jill		What man?
stevie		 I don't know... He was... Wings on a horse...
jill		 John?... John?...
jill		John!... John!...
clifford		Your husband's okay.
june		Mommy?
****Dialogues from script :While_She_Was_Out.txt****

5th draft		December 20, 2006
map grids		 From the pages of a Thomas guide converge, overlap and re- configure across the screen. The endlessly ironic names of American suburbs parade before us, their violet territories marching forward like a bruise into dark green patches of forest and wilderness.  Closer in on one last map grid which fades into a transparency of itself overlaid across the actual location of the suburb. The name of this housing development is "Pleasant Valley". The transparency fades out to reveal:  1                                                                 1 EXT.   PLEASANT VALLEY BOULEVARD - EVENING  From a sign reading "Pleasant Valley Dream Homes", a picture postcard boulevard of mini mansions curves into infinity.  Each home is brand new. Each has the same size lawn, the same shrubs, the same satellite dish. Each has an indistinguishable car parked in the driveway.  All the homes have Christmas decorations, Christmas trees with baubles, lights and Christmas stars sitting proudly at the top. The doors have Christmas wreaths.  The sheen of a recent rainfall makes all the surfaces glimmer in the lights.  We halt outside one house.  2                                                                 2 EXT.   DELLAS'S HOUSE - EVENING  This home too seems perfect until we notice the Christmas star has fallen from the top of the tree and lies reflecting itself in a puddle on the wet lawn.  Suddenly we hear the sound of wings fluttering and see an owl among the branches of the Christmas tree. It rises from the tree then swoops down to the lawn where it sweeps a mouse from the grass. The owl then soars off, casting a magnified shadow of her wings across the house, and disappears with it's prey into the woods behind.  Curtains part at a downstairs window. The silhouette of a man appears bathed in the blue glow of a computer screen. He draws the curtains once again and disappears.  3                                                                 3 INT. DELLA'S HOUSE/ KENNETH'S MEDIA ROOM - EVENING  We sneak between curtain and window ledge into a home office fitted out with a flat screen TV and a computer.  Scene 3 Page 2
kenneth		Yes!
della		SHOOT, KENNETH! That's Tammi's favorite doll.
kenneth		You should just swear properly and get it over with. Do you think the kids don't know what you mean?
della		I'm going to the mall for wrapping paper.
kenneth		What do you do all day, Della honey? Cause it sure isn't keeping house. This place is an eyesore. I'm mortgaged up to the eyeballs for this?
della		Put the twins to bed by eight. Give them a chocolate cookie with their milk.
kenneth		Jesus, Della. Della honey, I'm sorry.
tammi		Mommy can I get an American Girl for Christmas?
terri		I want a raptor dinosaur, Mommy.
della		You better leave Santa a note. It's only three days until Christmas.
tammi		Where are you going, Mommy?
della		The Mall. One chocolate cookie each and then Daddy will read you a bedtime story.
tammi		Daddy's stories are lame. I want you to read us a story.
terri		Yeah Mommy, the one about the pirates.
tammi		No, the cowgirls. Diamond Lil and Slingshot Kitty.
della		Tomorrow night I'll read you the best bedtime story in the whole world. I promise.
della		Frick!
della		I'll get right on that Kenneth honey. AFTER you stop drinking.
della		Hello?
della		Oh, hey.
della		Sure. How are you?
della		How'd you get my cell number?
della		And how'd that go? Did he give you an earful for disturbing his ninety ninth viewing of Lethal Weapon Four?
della		Well, with the way you flaunt your double D boob job at the free fun PTA events that's hardly a surprise.
della		Oh nothing, Mary.
della		Well that wouldn't be hard. Mary, do you need something? Cause I gotta go.
della		TOOL SCHOOL?, Ouch, Mary. Do It Yourself Mechanics is without a doubt the most interesting thing in my life right now.  I carry my beloved toolbox in the trunk at all times.
della		Sorry, Mary, I'm skipping this week. Kenneth's parents are coming to stay for Christmas. You know how it is.
della		You check with her, Mary.
della		You too.  Bah Humbug.
della		Bye, Mary.
della		The Learning Academy. Spring Street.
della		Hi Meghan.     It's Della Myers.
della		Yes I knew.
della		Okay.
local ad		Pleasant Valley Dream Homes. The lowest crime rate in the US. Call 1- 800-SAFE.
della		Can you leave word for Mike. I'm going to miss tomorrow's Mechanic's class. It's just the one time.
della		I guess some people find it boring.
della		Yes you will...unless I run off and become an outlaw or something.
meghan		Merry Christmas
della		You too.
della		Where are you? Grand Central Station?
cassie		Hold on, I'll take the phone outside.
della		FRICK!
della		I almost rear-ended a car. Cassie?
della		Huh? One of those rubber balls, I think. I'm headed over there now. Ran out of Christmas wrapping paper. Would you believe it?
della		Aw shoot. My cell battery's dying.
della		No....I'm just. I mean I'm. Oh nothing.
della		It can't be that bad?
della		A latte's fine. Let's meet at the fountain opposite Victoria's Secret.
della		My battery's going. I'm a block away. See you in five minutes.
della		Okay, okay!
mother		Watch where you're going!
della		Sorry!
della		Lucky son of a .....
angry driver		If you think you're gonna steal my spot, think again, asshole!
della		Hello?
della		Do you know where I can definitely find parking?
della		Yes!
della		GREAT!
della		Thanks.  Della arrives at the fountain. A piddling jet of dirty water gurgles from the mouth of a bored mermaid and streams down into the shallow pool full of nickels and dimes. She scans the crowd but there's no sign of Cassie.  Della sits at the edge of the fountain. She checks her watch then checks out the people milling around in front of Victoria's Secret, where mannequins in skimpy festive underwear are propped seductively in the window displays.  Still no sign of Cassie. She's about to make a wish and throw a quarter into the fountain when a Red Cross worker shakes her "Save the Children" tin at her. Della sticks the quarter into the tin instead.  37                                                                 37 INT.   VICTORIA'S SECRET - EVENING  Della wanders the aisles of festive colored undies watching men pick out slinky lingerie for their partners and women examine slim fit underpants and padded bras.  She notices a pure silk black teddy, very classic, no frills. She lifts it from the rail and holds it against herself in front of the mirror, tries to imagine herself in it.  A young SALES ASSISTANT approaches.
della		No thanks. Not my size.
della		A latte please?
della		Forget it, just the coffee.
della		Della, two L's.
della		Lynn Monroe!
lynn		I knew it was you, Della. I haven't seen you since college. You left to marry some handsome jock and we never heard from you again.
della		Something like that. Do you live around here now?
lynn		David and I just bought this divine house in Pleasant Valley. Do you know it? Great for the kids.
della		Oh, we have two kids. Twins, Tammi and Terri.
lynn		Why that's fantastic. Listen Della, it's been great talking to you but I have to go get my hair done! David and I are going out tomorrow night for a romantic dinner. I just bought this gorgeous teddy from Victoria's Secret.
della		It's a pity they don't have any "To a bastard at Christmas" cards.
della		God planned it for Christmas Day just to tick me off.
della		Thanks.
della		How come the ladies' bathroom is out of order on a night like this?
cleaning lady		The one at the other side of the mall is open, Ma'am.
carol singers		Silent Night. Holy Night. All is calm. All is bright.
della		Good Lord! What now?
della		What the hell are you playing at?
huey		Trust the nigga, we not playin'.
della		What are you? The world's first homeless United Nations Boy Band?
huey		Hell, yeah. We just wanna do shows and bone hoes.
tomas		And when yo done eating we gonna staple that bitch mouth closed.
chuckie		Now, now, my little brothers.
huey		It gitting cold, Chuckie. Game's not worth the dime.
della		 Chuckie? At least your parents have a sense of humor.
chuckie		Parents? I ain't got no parents. I named myself.
della		What? If you hadn't parked like an asshole, we wouldn't be arguing about it right now.
vinh		Whoah Lady!
tomas		Keep right on talking that gang a shit, chinga. Yo crimes against the click are digging yo grave deep.
huey		We already in hell.
della		Not if these delinquents move their barge so I can back up.
chuckie		Nah. We not in the mood.
tomas		Say yo prayers old man.
chuckie		These Rent-a-Pig companies are too lame to give their foot soldiers any ammo. Liability laws and all that. Tough shit!
vinh		She's busting a move!
chuckie		She ain't going nowhere. We got her Ford blocked in, right?
huey		I don't know nothing.
tomas		 Dar candela por el culo!
chuckie		I can just put one through her windshield, right?
della		Please God. Don't overcorrect.
tomas		Chinga tu madre. She making her getaway.
vinh		Chuckie!
huey		She on her cell right now calling the pigs.
chuckie		You gone buck wild, nigga? We ain't going down for shit.
huey		You ain't earned the right to call me a nigga. And that goes for all you haters.
chuckie		Easy my G. Easy.
della		No!
della		Huh!
della		Damn!
tomas		Hell, no.
huey		Shit!
huey		Our new sneakers are stuck up in the dirt like they was last years.
chuckie		Soon as we taken care o' Mrs. Podunk you and the Spanish dancer can hit the next mall. But first you fakers best haul this rider out of the filth.
vinh		Stupid ass car got nowhere else to go. There's nothing but trees up ahead.
tomas		Screw the car, Chuckie. Case you forgot we got a witness on the loose! I ain't want to end up in the clink as some chimp's prison pillow.
chuckie		Trust me dog, hoe's going down execution style before we see the other side o' them bars.
tomas		Yo talk a real mob threat, Chuckie. But what if she gone already?
chuckie		She ain't gone.
chuckie		Won't be long before we find her now. This baby could spot a needle in a haystack!
huey		We caught up in this bitch's life like a soap opera. We could just bail, blast out of town like we was never here.
chuckie		This boy loves weed so much he tried to marry Juana.
huey		Ain't no one cares about the Rent-a- Pig. He just collateral damage to the peeps at the mall.
chuckie		Listen up skippy: SHE THE ONLY WITNESS.
huey		But if we hit the road now we'll be five hundred miles away before they find him....we could be drinking cold beer and swimmin' in the Atlantic....just like you promised.
chuckie		We gotta take care of her. When she gone. The problem gone. Right? We'll head off then, Huey, just like I said.
huey		We ain't   gonna make it, are we Chuckie?   I ain't never gonna see it. It's   over for that, isn't it Chuckie?   Just say it.
chuckie		GET REAL Huey! And shut the fuck up about the stupid ocean.
huey		No Chuckie, you ain't.
huey		Someone call her mama tell her to lay out her black dress.
tomas		Is she dead already?
vinh		Musta gone been thrown through the windshield.
chuckie		She ain't dead. Look! Her footprints are all around.
della		 NO! OH NO.
tomas		Where'd little red riding hood git to?
vinh		She ain't leaving any bread crumbs that's for sure.
huey		When a nigga hungry, Imma wolf.
chuckie		Peek a boo!
huey		Yo left without yo goodbye kiss.
chuckie		You a window shopper little brother. You ain't never even done the old in and out before.
huey		Imma just a young playa tryin' to put my bid in.
tomas		Don't worry, when we done wit you we send yo back in yo trunk to Mr. Podunk.
chuckie		Back off five minutes, my Ghetto brother.
vinh		Yeah, like how to quit mouthing if you wanna avoid drama.
chuckie		You must be wondering how we come to know your name.
huey		Yo think she carrying the big notes, maybe some ice?
chuckie		Nah, it ain't about to rain diamonds, Huey. But maybe she cashed in her life savings. Planned to take off, start a new life.
tomas		You got enough scratch in there to grease us up with?
chuckie		Open it.
vinh		Open the box else we put you in trauma.
chuckie		OPEN IT!
della		Okay! I'll open it.
tomas		She ain't got nuthin'. Let's just take that pussy and git going.
vinh		What the fuck, niggaz?
chuckie		Shut up.
vinh		You hurt?
chuckie		SHUT THE FUCK UP.
tomas		Jesus hijo de maria el virgene.
vinh		What?
chuckie		My little brother.
tomas		Mamacita! Madre de Dios!
chuckie		You tread on my boy's face. YOU KILLED HIM.
tomas		I didn't kill him. I didn't kill no one.
chuckie		DELLA!
della		 Shit! Oh Shit!  She trudges on, pushing between the branches, no clue where she is headed.  The further she treads, the quieter it becomes. So quiet she can hear her own footfalls and the sound of the trees breathing.  Then, she spots the light again, in the distance, shining out over the forest.  Thank God!  She trudges up a slope ahead, clinging onto branches and shrubs to help pull herself up.  100                                                              100 EXT. LEDGE - EVENING  The light grows closer. She climbs up onto a ledge.  A loud noise startles her. It's music. Rap music. Blasting.  Della pushes her way through to the edge of the trees. Sees....  101                                                              101 EXT.   CLEARING - EVENING  The woodland ahead slopes down into a clearing, where a huge ghetto blaster sits on a pile of felled trees. Young pines about to become Christmas trees. It's blasting out a hip hop anthem for a dead homie. A construction light illuminates the clearing.  A ghostly Vinh, head hung low, moves to the music, bottle of beer in hand.  Propped up against a tree stump sits the body of Huey, arms crossed over his torso, hood pulled up to cover his face.  The scene is so surreal that Della is drawn closer. She creeps along the edge of the trees.  As she moves, she kicks back on some dirt. It tumbles downhill into the gulch. She freezes.  But nobody notices.  She slips invisibly between the trees and watches as Tomas enters the clearing.  Scene 101Page 59
chuckie		What the fuck you doing?
vinh		It's a tribute. A gesture.
chuckie		A what?
vinh		It's for Huey. Our dead homie.
chuckie		You checked out, right?
vinh		He loved that track.
chuckie		Get a grip, skippy.
tomas		I didn't mean it. I didn't do it. I didn't mean to kill him.
chuckie		Well he dead. That's it for him. OVER. But we still here. Hell, yeah. Payback's gonna be a real bitch for a real bitch.
vinh		She probably gone by now.
chuckie		You best hope not, genius. She gone, we gone.
tomas		I can smell her Bulgari.
chuckie		She was right here. Must a saw your dumb ass tribute and everything.
tomas		It Bulgari, dude. My Dad's bitch bathes in it.
chuckie		There more of her footprints.
chuckie		Zipperhead!
vinh		Kon'aro Kusotare.
chuckie		You know we don't speak the Chinky.
vinh		What's your game, Chuckie? We left stumbling around in the dark while you hog the flashlight.
chuckie		I stole it. I get to use it. That's how it works. That right Tomas?
tomas		Right on, dog.
vinh		What if I steal it from you?
chuckie		There you go, bro.
tomas		We gonna put yo ass on ice, bitch!
chuckie		THERE SHE IS, TOP OF THE GULCH!
tomas		AHHHHHEEEEEEHHHHH!
vinh		AHHHHHHH!
chuckie		What?
vinh		I saw him.
chuckie		Sure you did, bro.
tomas		CONEJO! AIN'T NUTHIN' CAN SAVE YO ASS NOW.
della		Awwwrgh!
tomas		Unnh! Unnh! Unnh!
chuckie		Tomas is one hard son of a bitch. He got her strung up from a tree by now and you know it.
vinh		There's something over here.
chuckie		It's a big old tree trunk, you paranoid gook.
vinh		Tomas.....IYAH!
chuckie		It was a stupid ass accident killed Huey. You know that. And Tomas....
della		I'm sorry.
vinh		Aaaarrhh.
vinh		I don't feel good, Chuckie. You think I got the hypothermia?
chuckie		Nah, yo got the yellow fever.
vinh		I'm telling you, it ain't natural how she gets away every time.
chuckie		She got to be hiding up on the slope? You head up first and I'll follow with the flashlight.
vinh		I ain't going up there without the gun. End of story.
chuckie		Never would've pegged you as a pussy, Vinh. Even when Huey and Tomas called it, I always defended your ass.
vinh		Ain't no one never said I was a pussy.
chuckie		She a skinny ass bitch, too. Can't be weighing in at more than one twenty.
vinh		Tomas an Huey never called me a pussy.
chuckie		I ain't speaking ill o' the dead.
vinh		You already did.
chuckie		Anyways, when you ever shot a gun? Probably miss and shoot yourself in the foot.
chuckie		That's the spirit gangsta. Holler if you see her and I'll shoot.
vinh		Faito!
chuckie		There's only you and me, now.
chuckie		After what went down tonight, we got a special bond.
della		I'M GOING TO KILL YOU.
chuckie		I figured that would help you find your voice!
della		Give me a break.
chuckie		Monday night mechanics. Tuesday Pilates. Wednesday Spanish. Thursday, I wish....
della		I want...
chuckie		Leave the tools.
della		I already did.
chuckie		Hell of a night, huh?
della		I was only going to the mall for some Christmas wrapping paper.
chuckie		Shit happens.
della		What now?
chuckie		I wanted to look you in the eye before I kill you.
della		That's what I figured.
chuckie		Huey?   Huey's ....
della		Oh my.
kenneth		Where the hell have you been?
della		Please don't call me that. Don't ever call me that again.
kenneth		What?
della		I just wanted to get home to my babies.
kenneth		What happened to you?
della		Are they okay?
kenneth		Sound asleep, huh?
della		Nothing.
****Dialogues from script :Whistleblower.txt****

****Dialogues from script :White_Christmas.txt****

white christmas		 "WHITE CHRISTMAS"  by  Melvin Frank, Norman Krasna and Norman Panama
general carlton		 What's this all about, Colonel?
adjutant		 A little entertainment for the men, sir.  Tonight's Christmas Eve.
general carlton		These men are moving up tonight. They should be lined up for full inspection!
general waverly		 There's no Christmas in the Army, Colonel.
adjutant		Yes, sir.
general waverly		 There's always a slip-up or two during a change in command.  The men get a little loose.  But I know I'm leaving them in good hands.
general carlton		 Sergeant, take me to headquarters immediately!  We'll have those men turned out on the double!
general waverly		Goodbye, Sergeant.  Take the short cut.
sergeant		Yes, sir!
adjutant		That's not the way to headquarters!
general waverly		Joe, you know that, and I know that, but the new General doesn't know it. Or he won't for about an hour and a half.
adjutant		That Sergeant'll be a private tomorrow!
general waverly		Yes... isn't he lucky?
bob		Thanks, fellows.  I guess by now you know the Old Man's being replaced by a new Commanding General fresh out of the Pentagon... this divisions's been awfully lucky so far, but tonight they're running a special on St. Christophers at the PX... The Old Man's heading back to the rear - he's never moved in that direction in his life.  All I can say is, we owe so much to General Waverly and the way --
waverly's voice		 ATTENTION!
general waverly		Captain Wallace, button your shirt. You're out of uniform!  This division is now under the command of General Harold G. Carlton, and I don't want anyone to forget it -- not that he'll let you.  He's tough -- just what this sloppy outfit needs. You'll be standing inspection night and day -- you may even learn how to march.  And if you don't give him everything you got, I may come back and fight for the enemy.  Merry Christmas!
general waverly		 Well -- I guess that's about it - uh - uh --
bob		Perhaps I can help you out, sir.
cooke		 New York's on the telephone.
phil		 Oscar.
oscar		Listen, I just heard what you're doing -- giving the cast a week off with pay for Christmas.  You don't know how touched I am.  I'm all choked up.  Between sobs, I managed to book you on the Ed Harrison show this week to take up the slack.  It'll be stealing money.
phil		 We'll have to go to New York -- four days and four nights of rehearsals -- that's stealing money?
oscar		It is for me  -- I get ten percent.  Next time you guys make a charitable gesture, find out if you got with what to make it.  See you Wednesday.
bob		Well... while the cast takes it easy we'll be slaving over a hot kinnie.
cooke		What train do you want?  There's a one-thirty this morning but you have to sit up all night.
phil		Let's get out tonight.
bob		Okay.
phil		What are we going to do until one- thirty?
bob		We'll eat dinner.
phil		 Eat, eat  All you think of is your stomach!
rita		 You said you had something to rehearse with me after the show.  What is it?
phil		It's a kind of new dance number.
rita		 I'm ready.
bob		 Lamb chops, lamb chops!
phil		 I'm looking at them!  We're going in the wrong direction.
betty		 We'll have to rush to get the 1:30 train.
bob		Have you ever considered laying off the female sex for awhile?
phil		What other kind is there? 
bob		Down, Rover, down.  Remember, we have an agreement--you chase no new tidbits during the season.  You were man enough to give me your hand on it.
phil		You were sneaky enough to take it.
betty		 Ahem!  All right dear, relax.
judy		He's awful cute.
betty		So was the one in Kansas City, and the one in Canton, Ohio, and the one in Waco, Texas.
judy		 Canton, Ohio wasn't so much.
betty		One of these days you're going to meet somebody extra cute and the next performance I'll be doing a single.
judy		 Nobody'll ever be cute enough to break up this sister act.
phil		I haven't much luck with sister acts. They're all alike.  Shall I tell you what these two are like?
bob		Shoot.
phil		Four feet two inches tall.  Pudgy. Round races.  Have big bows in their hair.  Always smiling.  Lots of teeth.  Sister acts have more teeth than anybody else.  Two, three hundred teeth at a time.  The American Dental Association is investigating it.
bandleader		Ladies and gentleman, the Stewart Sisters!
phil		Say, Dolores!  That's Dolores!
bob		Who?
phil		Remember that girl I told you about who got sick in St. Paul?  That's her!  The girl in the oxygen tent! I told you about her!  The road company of "Student Prince."  The whole company went to church and prayed for her!  It was the most touching thing I've ever seen in show business.
novello		Didn't you get your dessert yet, Mr. Wallace?
bob		I'm not having any, but I think my partner's lining up some pastries now.
novello		Sure wish I could afford to book you boys here.
bob		Call our agent - we've got half an hour between trains.
phil		Hello, Mister Novello.
novello		Good evening, Mister Davis.
phil		 Miss Stewart, Mister Wallace. Miss Stewart, Mister Wallace.
bob		 How do you do.
novello		See you later, folks.
phil		'Bye. 
judy		We saw your show at the matinee, and we liked it very much.
bob		Thank you, ma'am.
phil		Where are you going to be for Christmas?
judy		We're booked in Vermont.
phil		Vermont?  What's there?
betty		Snow.  We spent last Christmas in South Carolina, the year before in Hawaii.  They didn't seem like Christmases.  There ought to be snow. This one's going to be real white.
bob		Well, it's the way you've been raised. If you saw a lot of snow when you were a kid you miss it more around Christmas. There's a lot of snow around St. Paul.
judy		Is that where you come from - St. Paul?
bob		No.  You come from St. Paul.
judy		I come from Canton, Ohio.
bob		 I'd like to ask you something.  Were you ever in an oxygen tent?
judy		Oxygen tent?  Oh no!
bob		Were you ever in a road company of "Student Prince?"
betty		No.  Why?
bob		Very good.
phil		Thank you.
bob		What I admire are the details, the invention, the little lies all around the big one.  It takes talent.
phil		Oh, it's nothing.
bob		Don't say that.  Don't belittle yourself.  Credit where credit is due.  You did it fine.
betty		Private conversation?
bob		Little game we play.
phil		 May I have this dance?
judy		I'd love to.
phil		 I'm not going to keep calling you Miss Stewart.
judy		The name is Judy.
phil		 What a pretty name!
bob		 Nicer than Dolores!
betty		I'm Betty.
bob		I'm low man. Bob.  Follow that couple.
betty		Why?
bob		Want to make sure they keep dancing.
betty		Stop worrying.  He won't get any place with her.
bob		You sure?
betty		I'm positive.  I trained her myself.
bob		She's in the ring with the champ, though.  You've heard of Alcoholics Anonymous?  Women Anonymous.  Their biggest case.
betty		Well, you keep an eye on him, and I'll keep an eye on her.
bob		Fine. We can make out the probation report together.
judy		They're both very cute, aren't they?
betty		 Both?
judy		Uh huh.
betty		Which one do you like best?
judy		I like them both.
betty		You can't have both.  There's a law.
judy		Oh, we'll never meet them again, what does it matter?
bob		Judy, you made even him look good.
judy		 You're very flattering, but he was doing all the leading.
betty		 You dance very well together.  If I say it.
phil		 Lightest girl I ever saw.  Floats like a bubble.  One big bubble.
bob		All right, bubble lover, stand up!
phil		What for?  I just sat down.
bob		La train.  At one-thirty, and we have to pack.
phil		Train?
bob		You know, choo choo.  Goes on tracks.  Wo woo.
phil		Oh no!
bob		Oh yes!
phil		Can't we go tomorrow?
bob		The train goes tonight.  Say goodbye to the lady bubble, because we're going to have to run for it now.
phil		Lady bubble, I have an idea we're going to meet up again sometime.
judy		We might, we're on the same train.
phil		No.
judy		Yes.
bob		 No.
novello		The sheriff is here! He's in my office!
judy		The sheriff!
novello		He's got a warrant to arrest you!
bob		I thought we watched you every minute.
phil		Never stopped dancing.
bob		 Can we help?
judy		 I've never been arrested!
phil		There's nothing to it!
bob		Don't get panicky!
novello		Yes, don't get excited, you still have to give your show!  He's not going to arrest them until after the show!
bob		That's considerate!  How'd you arrange that?
novello		I'm a taxpayer here!  You better go in and change, girls!  You haven't much time!
bob		May I enquire what you are being arrested for?
betty		The owner of the hotel we were at says we dropped a cigarette on his rug and burned it.
judy		We couldn't have dropped a cigarette because we don't smoke.
betty		He wants two hundred dollars, but it's just plain stealing.
judy		We left the money for our bill in an envelope on the bed.
betty		Then we dropped the bags out the window and checked them at the depot.
judy		What are we going to do now?
novello		You have to give another show.
phil		The old burned rug routine.
bob		Kind of old fashioned, isn't it? I thought that went out with the Cherry Sisters. We'll have to do something.
phil		 Got a flash?
bob		A glimmer.  Have to stir it around a little.
judy		We wouldn't want you boys to get into any trouble.
phil		Why not?  Maybe we'll all wind up in the same cell.
landlord		That's the second dessert you've had, Sheriff!
sheriff		Real good, too.
landlord		I haven't got all night to wait here while you eat free food!  You've got your warrant, arrest those girls!
sheriff		 Now, we agreed to let them finish their show first.
landlord		I didn't agree!  That was his idea!
novello		I've got some rights, too.  You don't get those girls until after they've done their number!
landlord		Well, how long is it going to take?
novello		Wait a minute! That's their music!
landlord		They're clapping! It's over!  Arrest them!
bob		Get out of these clothes! Toot sweet!
phil		Ma, unhook my bra!
sheriff		 You stay here.  Let them try to go through the window.
landlord		If they make a break for it, shoot 'em!
sheriff		Just a minute, Hank, couple of customers coming up.
hank		Okay, boss.
sheriff		Back you go, boys!
phil		Pete!
sheriff		Phil!  Bob!
bob		Pete!
phil		 Are you the Sheriff here?
sheriff		You bet I am!
bob		How'd you get in this line of work?
sheriff		After I got out of the army I sat down and figured it out!  Who never got in trouble in the army?  The M.P.'s!  They were the ones who arrested you!  So I came back here and ran for Sheriff!
bob		A civilian M.P.!  If the fellows ever saw you now!  They'd skin you alive!
phil		You ever see any of them?
sheriff		Whitey Harris and Jack Ross have a filling station near here!
bob		Jack Ross!  Will you ever forget the party he threw in Naples?
phil		In a captured brewery.  Very sensible, giving a party in a brewery.  Cuts out the middleman.
bob		Do you remember when Danny Beasly climbed up -  - the tower of the City Hall and rang the bell by swinging on the clapper?  He couldn't hear anything for two days.
sheriff		Danny Beasly!  Too bad he didn't make it.
bob		Not everybody was lucky.
phil		We were lucky in one thing - the old man.
sheriff		You can say that again.  Say I'm supposed to arrest a couple of dames! A fellow swore out a warrant!
phil		He's a crook!  Burned a hole in a rug and is trying to hold up two kids.
sheriff		You don't say!
bob		 We got to get our bags and be at the station in ten minutes!  We'll never make it!
sheriff		Just a moment!  Hank !
hank		Yes, sir.
sheriff		Take my friends where they want to go!
hank		Yes, sir.
sheriff		Hurry up!
bob		 Thanks, Pete.
phil		Do you think we can make it?
hank		This thing goes over a hundred an hour!  Hold on!
sheriff		They escaped!  We're pursuing 'em!
landlord		Escaped!
sheriff		 What do you mean smoking on theatrical premises!
landlord		That's not mine!  I wasn't smoking!
sheriff		What's that burning?  A lollypop?  Come on!
judy		 You didn't steal the police car?
phil		No, no.  Friend of ours.
bob		Well, we'll be together as far as New York.
betty		Maybe it'll snow in New York for Christmas.  If it doesn't, we'll mail you a snowball from Vermont.
judy		I haven't been on ice skates in years.
phil		Ice?  You mean the stuff in a Scotch and soda?  Bob, how about snow for Christmas?
bob		You'll only thaw it out.
phil		Come on, Bob, we could have a great week up in Vermont.
bob		I see what you mean.  But Wednesday we've got to be back in New York.
phil		All right -- so it's just for a couple of days.  Don't you want me to enjoy the winter sports?
bob		You enjoy them all year round.  We won't get in your way, will we?
betty		As long as your friend doesn't try to take my sister for a sleigh ride.
bob		If he tries it, I'll smash his flexible flyer.  It's all set.
phil		 The thing I like about you, Bob, is you're not only kind and generous, you're handsome.
bob		We're going to have to sit up all night.  Let's get some shut eye.
phil		Are you sure this is the right Vermont?
bob		This isn't a southern Vermont?
judy		I don't understand it.
betty		There has to be snow!  This place is advertised as America's Snow Playground!
bob		Well, if you say so.  Driver, your sleigh and reindeer.
susan		Mail, Martha.
martha		 What's the weather forecast down at the Post Office?
susan		Awful.  Fair and warmer.
martha		If we don't get snow soon we can turn this hotel into a haunted house. We haven't had a guest for three weeks.
susan		 What are you looking for?
martha		 Your grandfather's written Washington asking if he can get back in active service.  I think he wants to fly jets.
susan		I think he could do it.
martha		He says older men have been called, and besides, he misses the food.  I tell you, Susan, he tried to make it a casual letter, with little jokes, but it came out just begging.
susan		 Oh, Martha!  What are we going to do?
martha		 I don't know.  Don't let on we know he's written.  He'll start in I'm only his housekeeper and that I found out through some chicanery or something.
susan		 How did you find out?
martha		Like any housekeeper --  I read the carbon paper.  Bring him the mail.
martha		 Welcome to Columbia Inn.  How do you do?
all		How do you do?
martha		 What kind of accommodations would you like?  We can give you a fairly wide choice--any room in the Inn, including mine.
betty		We're not here as guests.  We're the Stewart sisters.
martha		 Oh.
bob		My friend and I are guests.  We've come down for the snow.  Where are you keeping it?
martha		We take it in during the day!
bob		 What are your rates here?
martha		Make us an offer.  I'm afraid we won't be able to use you.  We'll pay you the half salary for canceling.
judy		Oh, no!  Are things that bad?
martha		We're using the ski-tow to hang the wash on.  You're not going to stay either, are you?
bob		 I'm afraid not, ma'am.
bob		I'll tell Phil to leave the luggage -  General Waverly!  Sir!
waverly		 At ease!  How are you, Captain.
bob		I'm fine, sir. 
waverly		 We just try to keep the General part quiet.
bob		Why?  Begging your pardon, sir.
waverly		Well, to put it in one sentence, people don't expect major generals to carry firewood.
phil		Bob, I was thinking we ought to -
waverly		At ease!
phil		Oh, sir!  A janitor!
waverly		Never thought I'd make it, he? ...Matter of fact, it's worse than that.  I own this hotel.
martha		He got it in a shrewd business move.
betty		 Was everybody in your outfit?  We seem to run into them all over the country.
bob		The Draft Board didn't know when to stop.
waverly		If I start the introductions, can I get to meet these young ladies?  My housekeeper, Miss Martha Allen, my granddaughter, Susan Waverly.
bob		I'm Bob Wallace -- this is Phil Davis --
betty		We're the Stewart sisters.
judy		Your floor show.
martha		 Don't worry -- I've already told them we'd have to cancel.
waverly		Why?  We have a floor, haven't we?
martha		Last time I looked.  But who are they going to sing to?
waverly		Even if it's only to you and me, it will be well worth it.  Besides, there will be six inches of snow tonight and we'll be full up tomorrow.
betty		 Is that the weather forecast?
waverly		No.  But if there was one thing I learned in the army it was to be positive -- especially when you don't know what you're talking about. You'll excuse me, gentlemen, I'm on K.P.
waverly		 or I'll know the reason why!
judy		 Gee... no wonder we won the war!
bob		I think well stay a little longer than we planned.
waverly		Excellent.  I enjoyed it very much.
judy		Thank you.
martha		It was nice, if you like music.
betty		 Mister Waverly, we'd like to make you a proposition.
waverly		 Well, for heaven's sake!
betty		You've been very nice not canceling, we'd like to make a gesture.  Until it snows, and you have guests, we'll take half salary.
martha		 Now let's get that in writing.
waverly		 Your next performance is tomorrow night, after dinner.  Be here, or I'll sue!
martha		 Light-Horse Harry.  Advance, advance, never retreat!  He's advancing right into bankruptcy.
phil		That's just the way he was in the army.  Always thinking of the other fellow.
bob		We ate and then he ate.  We slept, and then he slept.
phil		Then he woke up, and nobody slept for the next forty-eight hours.
martha		I happen to know he's sunk his life's savings into this place.  I read the carbon paper.
judy		Gee, I wish there were something we could do to help.
bob		Maybe there is.
phil		You got a flash?
bob		A glimmer.  Have to stir it around a bit.
phil		 Ticking away madly.  Wheels within wheels.  This is the brain that, in darkest Italy, devised a formula to make food out of K-Ration!  Shhhhhh!
bob		 There you are.
phil		Incidentally, how much will this cost?
bob		 We are coming out - even.
phil		You mean flat?
bob		That's the same as even.
phil		Wheels within wheels.  It's nice how you take care of the money for both of us because you're older and so level headed.  I wonder where I'd be now if hadn't saved your life?
bob		Do you want me to cancel the troupe coming?
phil		 You'd have done a swan dive into it. With me on your back!
martha		I can't believe it!  You mean you brought the whole show up here?
bob		When you hired the Stewart sisters you also hired a New York show.  It was in the small print.
phil		And you can't get out of it.  We've got lawyers.
susan		I can't thank you enough, but I wonder if Gramp'll let you do it?
phil		Why not?
martha		His pride.  When he decides he's going into bankruptcy he likes to go.
bob		Now just a second.  We're not doing this for him!
phil		Oh no!  We're bringing the show down here to rehearse!
bob		The company's been getting a little ragged.  We'd appreciate the use of the hall.
phil		Of course we don't expect it free!
bob		We'll pay a little, but not much. - You see, the audience will be guinea- pigs -- and for us, that's quite an improvement.
susan		I don't know what to say!
bob		I hope this is not an indication of advancing age, getting kissed out of gratitude.
phil		You didn't expect a girl that pretty to kiss you because she wanted to?
bob		A body keeps hoping.
betty		 That was the nicest thing I ever saw anybody do.
bob		It was still gratitude.
phil		 She's not as grateful as her sister.
waverly		 I'm not clear about some of it. Explain it again.
phil		 Well, sir.  We have this show, and we laid off for the holidays.  You see, business was bad.
waverly		I know about business being bad. Go on.
phil		Yes sir.  Well, so we figured as long as we had the opportunity we'd do a little rehearsing.  Right here.
waverly		Why here?  Phil looks to Bob for help as they move toward the lobby.
bob		Well, sir, this nice empty room. The minute we looked at it we said it was ideal.  Didn't we?
phil		That's what we said.  Ideal.
bob		And then we'll have an audience to play to.  You see, sir, you need an audience on which to try out your new material.
waverly		Where are you going to get the audience?
phil		Oh, what guests there are in the other hotels. They're pretty bored here without snow, and a New York show's kind of a novelty in Vermont.
waverly		I would think so.  How will they know you're here?
bob		Oh, word gets around.
phil		Yes sir, and we also took the girls twice around the town for a little run.  They were stiff from the train. In their practice clothes.
bob		Makes the blood circulate,
waverly		 Hmm.  Whose blood?
waverly		Apparently there must be a lot about show business I don't understand.
phil		It'll come to you, sir.
bob		It just takes time.
phil		We wouldn't be any good as generals.
waverly		You weren't any good as privates!
phil		 He was an officer, sir.
waverly		Only to confuse the enemy.
bob		That's all for today, kids.
bob		Get a little rest before tonight's performance.
phil		 I'll walk you over.
bob		Phil!  Look this over, I want to try something.
phil		 See you later.
martha		Guinea pig?
bob		 That's the idea. Want you to hear a song I just wrote.
martha		If it's a love song, don't get too close.
bob		It isn't.  Just tell me how you think the Old Man would feel about this one.
martha		 I think it's just wonderful --
susan		I think so, too.
waverly		I'm afraid I disagree. The song is funny, but there is one thing wrong with it.
phil's voice		What's that, sir?
waverly		It's true.  I'd rather you didn't.
first owner		Great show, Waverly.
waverly		Thank you.
second owner		We needed something like this.  I had six checkouts, and when they heard about this they decided to stay.
first owner		Same here.  Much obliged.
waverly		Glad to help.
judy		 The moon!   I can't get over the moon up here.  The size of it!
betty		 Same one they have all over.
judy		They'll never prove it to me.  And everything smells so beautiful.  What is it - pine or fir?
betty		 We're near the bakery.
judy		 You know your trouble, Betty?  You're not romantic.
judy		Everything's so wonderful here, so pretty, so exciting, I can't understand how you stay frozen up. Let yourself go, go, like me!
betty		 Which one is it?
judy		What do you mean?
betty		Bob or Phil?
judy		Neither.
betty		You mean both.
judy		 It's the same.  No one is going to break up our act.
betty		Isn't there one you prefer over the other?
judy		The way Phil dances, and he's funny. It's easy to see yourself married to him.
betty		 And Bob?
judy		He's different, deeper, and he's funny, too.  It'd be nice to be married to both of them.
betty		Good thing they're not a quartette.
judy		 If I was Catherine the Great, that's what I'd do.  Phil in the daytime, Bob at night. Or should it be the other way around?
judy		Phil'd be more fun in a night club, but eventually a girl wants a pipe and slipper fellow.  That's Bob, smoking a pipe and petting a cocker spaniel.  Still, Phil could learn to smoke a pipe.  Breaking a fellow in to suit you is something every girl should go through.  I hear it's half the fun.  Which one do you like better?  Betty? 
bob's voice		Tuna fish, on the lower shelf.
betty		Oh!
bob		What are you doing?  Sleep-walking?
betty		I couldn't sleep.
bob		Little young for that, aren't you?
bob		What shall I make you?
betty		Anything'll do.
bob		If you tell me what you want to dream about I'll know what to make you.
betty		 How's that?
bob		Different foods make for different dreams.  I've got a whole theory about it.  It's called "The Wallace Way of Wishful Wooing."  You'll find it in the American Medical Journal under 'W'.  Ham and Swiss cheese, for instance, you get a cool, thin, blonde girl.  Turkey sandwich, you get a dark sort of stumpy girl, sexy though.  Now a liverwurst sandwich -  you get both girls at once.  Bad night.
betty		What do you dream on tuna?
bob		Darndest thing, I dream about me.
betty		 Then I'll have a tuna sandwich.
bob		Now that's very flattering.  Tuna coming up.  Let me make you some warm milk. That'll help the insomnia.
betty		 Warm milk won't do it.
bob		Whatever you've got on your mind isn't worth staying awake for.
betty		I think it is.
bob		Would you like to know how I handle a situation like that...?
betty		Tell me, Doctor...
phil		Don't make them too tight.  I wear
bob		All right kids!  Places!  Let's get going! Phil, you're on!
bob		 How long are we so far?
albert		An hour and ten minutes.
bob		Something has to come out.
bob		All right, places for the next number!  What's the trouble?
albert		Mr. Wallace - 
bob		Come on, out with it.
albert		I don't think Sylvia ought to go on, unless you cut out the high kicks and let her do some easy waltzes. Very easy waltzes.
bob		You're kidding!
sylvia		We don't want anyone else to know.
albert		Please don't mention it.  For heaven's sake!
sylvia		How did they know?
phil		Obviously you're going to call the boy after me!
bob		After you?  I hired Sylvia!  The baby'll be named after me!
phil		I've been dancing with her!  That's more important!  The baby'll be named after me!
bob		The hiring was more important!  After me!
phil		The dancing was more important! After me!
albert		I'm her husband.  The baby'll be named after me.
bob		Well, we're going to need another dancer!
phil		How about Judy, she knows all the routines, she could pick it up in no time.
bob		On the other hand, it's all right if we lose a number, we're running too long now.  We have to cut somewhere.
betty		Wouldn't it be better if you cut my solo number?  I've never felt right in it anyway.  The show needs every bit of his dancing.
bob		 Well -
betty		There you are - painless.
bob		Greater love hath no woman than to give up a solo number.  Old Chinese saying.
phil		 What are you talking about?
bob		Drink your coffee.
phil		 Don't you want me to breathe?
rita		Not especially.
phil		What's gotten into you?
rita		You were chasing me in Florida.
phil		And you were running.  What made you stop?
rita		You're interested in Judy, aren't you?
phil		That's it, eh?  Unless it belongs to someone else, a girl doesn't - Ouch! 
phil		What's the matter?
judy		Nothing is the matter.
phil		This isn't the way you dance.
judy		Some people dance closer than others.
phil		Yes, that's true.  I'm one of the close ones.  That's my type.
phil		 And once you've caught him, don't ever let him go.
phil		Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make an announcement.
phil		It is my pleasure to identify the man who has been doing the chasing. I am him! - Or he! - Or it!  Anyway, Judy has caught me.  What I'm trying to say is, we're engaged.
betty		I hope you realize that you're getting he most wonderful girl in the world.
betty		Darling, don't cry.
judy		 I didn't know he was going to make that announcement, I swear I didn't.
betty		I know you didn't.
judy		He had no right to do that.
betty		You do love him, don't you?
judy		That doesn't matter.
betty		Nothing else matters.
judy		We're not going to break up our act.
phil		I've been looking for you, Judy.
betty		Excuse me.
bob		Don't take this too much to heart. Phil is a great kid but constancy isn't his long suit.
betty		I'm not the least bit worried.  So - this couldn't be more convenient. You stay with the show and I'll go back to The Carousel.
judy		When did you get this offer?
betty		Just today, as a matter of fact.  I got a telegram.
judy		Why didn't you mention it before?
betty		I didn't want to hurt your feelings.
judy		Where is the telegram?
betty		I threw it away.  What is this, a third degree?  You don't think I made it up?
judy		Yes, I do.
waverly		Well now, I wouldn't bet any large sum of money on that, since I took the message over the telephone, and I had to deliver the telegram.  And she didn't tip me, either.
judy		Oh, Betty!  I'm sorry!  I misunderstood!
betty		Now, baby!  It's all right!
phil		Well, everything's fine now!
general		 Where are you going to be?
betty		The Carousel.
betty		 I sent them a telegram this morning.
betty		Take care of my little sister.
bob		She can take care of herself.  Worry about the menfolk.  Now don't forget to write.
betty		I'll send you picture postcards.
waverly		Must be interesting to be a woman.
bob		The idea's never occurred to me, sir.
waverly		Well, think about it.  Well?
bob		Not interested!
waverly		A man like you must be an expert on women.
bob		It's a little immodest to say so, but I consider myself an authority on the fair sex,  I've made a study of the subject.  They're simple creatures.
waverly		They couldn't fool you?
bob		I'm single.
waverly		'Pride goeth before a fall.'
bob		'Who knows his own strength is twice armed.'
waverly		It's always a pleasure to meet an expert in any field.  Tell me, why do you think Betty went to New York?
bob		 She has a job in The Carousel.
waverly		Expert, you're wrong!  She went to New York because she's so in love with someone here she just couldn't stand it.
bob		Phil.  I'm darned if I can figure out why.
waverly		I thought you were an expert on women.  Come on, Delilah!
phil		 Now the same as the middle part.
phil		Betty get off all right?
bob		 Certainly.
judy		Betty left something for you.  She said to give it to you after she left.  It's on the piano.
phil		What's the matter?
bob		I don't get it.
phil		Don't get what?
bob		I just don't see it.  You' re skinny, you got a big nose, and you squint.
phil		Who?  Me?
bob		Yes, you!  Nothing personal though.
phil		No, of course not.
bob		I'm just trying to figure out what anyone sees in you.
phil		Well, stop worrying about it.  When I ask you for a date just turn me down.  Come on, Judy.
waverly		 I'm too young for that sort of thing.
waverly		Kind of warm for that kind of exercise, isn't it?
bob		 I think the weatherman's wrong about his forecast.  Those look like snow clouds to me.
waverly		 They're cumulus clouds, at an elevation of seven thousand feet.
bob		Yes, sir.  Still, weather's a funny thing. It could snow - overnight.
waverly		 I'll tell you something I haven't told my family.  I'm going back in the Army.
bob		Really, sir? That's great news!
waverly		Yes.  I miss the Army.
bob		Where are you going to be sent, sir?
waverly		Well, I'm not sure yet.  I've always been a combat officer, but I got an idea they're going to try and palm off one of the training commands on me.  They'd better not.  They just better not.  Now nothing to the women folk about this!
bob		No, sir.
waverly		Let's mosey over to the post office, I'm expecting a letter any day.
bob		 That's what I came over to give you, it slipped my mind.
waverly		 Read it, son.  Slowly.
waverly		 Skip that word.
bob		Yes, sir.  It certainly was a surprise hearing from you.  Your amusing letter was appreciated more than you imagine. Of course you've got plenty of time to be amusing, sitting on that porch, rocking away, while we put in a full day's work.  You always were a lucky stiff, and I envy you.  A few years more, I was saying to Emmy the other evening, and I'm going to be able to take it easy like old Tom.
waverly		 Old Tom.
bob		Oh, well, some people have all the luck.  Everyone in the family is fine here.  Carol had the mumps, which is no joke at eleven years of age -
waverly		The rest of the letter is about the family.  Say, it couldn't be hard to learn to pitch horseshoes.  Now could it?
bob		 Begging your pardon, sir, there's a lot to be said for leisure.  You're not used to it, you've always been active, but in time -
waverly		 Never kid a kidder.  Go on back to the hotel.
bob		Yes sir.
phil		Judy thinks my eyes are soulful.  Do you think my eyes are soulful?
bob		One of them is.
phil		You have no poetry in you.  It's about time you went in for girls, too.  After all, you haven't many years left for that sort of thing.
bob		 I'm the quiet type.  Little do you know what's aged me.
phil		Wheels within wheels, eh?  Well, live it up, Pops.  Eat, drink and be merry -- is that why you're leaving for New York?
bob		I told you what I'm seein' Ed Harrison about.  That's all.
phil		Business, business.  Glad to be rid of you.  You're not in the girly mood.
bob		 What do you know about girls?  You wouldn't know what to do with a girl if she fell on you!
phil		Well, I'd know enough not to get up.
martha		Mr. Wallace -- gonna miss your train!
phil		 For her I'd get up.
leader		Betty - You really live that number.
betty		The story of my life.
leader		Shall we try it over again?
betty		 I wish I could.
bob		I'm expecting Ed Harrison.
betty		 Let's not do the new number.
leader		What?
betty		Play "Blue Skies" -- anything.
leader		Relax.  Just do it the way you sang it this afternoon -- you'll be great.
bob		I never heard you sing that well. That's a good number for you.
betty		 Some numbers suit you better than others.  What are you doing here?
bob		Business, business.  Meeting a fellow here.
betty		Judy all right?
bob		She's fine.  Couldn't be better.  Playing footsie with Phil.
betty		That's nice.
bob		I think they like each other.
betty		I do, too.
bob		 They're kind of suited, in a lot of ways.
betty		Some people are.
bob		Thanks for the knitted sock.
betty		Don't mention it.
bob		I thought it was for Phil.
betty		 If the sock fits, wear it.
bob		 It started out for Phil.
betty		It just started out as a sock.
bob		You're a very odd girl.
betty		You're a very odd fellow.
bob		Two feet, one sock.  I must be.
betty		I'll get around to the other one, eventually.
bob		You mean to do any knitting in the near future?
betty		The feeling comes and goes.
bob		Think if the model hung around for a while... the feeling might be more permanent?
betty		Maybe.
bob		What's this maybe, shmaybe, comes and goes?  Friends tell me I don't have many years left for this sort of thing...  I ought to know right now if --
ed		Bob!  How are you?
bob		Hiya, Ed.
ed		 Betty.
ed		 Now what's this big deal you wanted to discuss?  I shouldn't even talk to you after canceling out on my show.
bob		 Ed, I saw the old man.
ed		Waverly?  Where, in the Pentagon?
bob		Pentagon, nothing.  He owns a little hotel in a winter resort in Vermont.
ed		Our old man?
bob		Nobody even knows who he is.
betty		He's too proud to let them know he's General Waverly.
ed		 Was she in our outfit, too?
bob		Vermont branch.
ed		What are we going to do about it? You got a flash?
bob		A glimmer.
ed		Got to stir it around a little?
bob		All stirred.  Remember how Old Flintbottom always used to find a way to keep our morale up... without telling us?  It's about time we returned the favor.  Let's surprise him with a real big bang-up reunion.
ed		Now you're talking!  How do we spread the word?
bob		You're gonna read this little speech on your television show.  People look at it, don't they?
ed		 Now's as good a time as any to find out.
phil		Bob, just leave it to me!  He won't get near a set if I have to break a leg... Goodbye, Bob!
phil		 Now everybody pay close attention.
ed		I hope Phil has been able to keep the old man away from a television set.
bob		He has.  In anything involving something crooked he's dependable.
waverly		Ed Harrison will be on in a half minute.  I like him.  I never miss him.
phil		Ow!  Ow!  Ow!
waverly		 What's that?
phil		My leg is broken!  Ow, ow!
waverly		Take it easy, boy. 
phil		Ow! Ow! It's broken!
waverly		No it isn't!  You may have a bad sprain, but no bones are busted!
phil		It's broken, sir.  I can feel it.
waverly		Let me help you.
ed		I would like to address all former officers, enlisted men, Wacs and nurses who were under the command of General Tom Waverly --
phil		Ow!  Ow! It's broken in two or three places!
waverly		That's just the impression you have! I tell you it's only shock!
waverly		 Take it easy, boy!
phil		Don't leave me!  Everything is going round and round!
waverly		Nobody's leaving you!  Martha, get me a cold towel!
ed		The objective is Pine Tree, Vermont --- Synchronize watches for Operation Waverly...
waverly		Things still going around?
phil		Now they're going sideways!
phil		Now they're going in and out!
waverly		This'll bring him out of it.
phil		 Where am I?
waverly		He's all right.
judy		Phil, what's happened to you?
phil		The Old Man's asleep!  Let's keep him that way!
martha		We've been waiting for you.
bob		How is everything going?
susan		Just fine.
betty		They are bedded down in all the hotels.
martha		His old outfit... If I wasn't such a mean old biddy, I'd probably break right down and cry. 
bob		There's nothing to cry about, is there?
susan		 Thank you so much.
bob		Can't you do something?
betty		They're just affected by the gesture.
bob		That's fine.
betty		 Where are Judy and Phil?
bob		Probably in their rooms, crying.
betty		Who is it?  General Waverly?
bob		The lovers.
betty		 We can't just stand here.  We have to get some sleep.
judy		We were rehearsing for the show tomorrow night.
betty		Is it going to be that kind of a show?  We'll be raided!
judy		What are you doing here?  What happened at The Carousel?
betty		I'm helping out here tomorrow.
phil		Hi, Bob. Everything's under control.  I mean the other kind of rehearsing - I mean - rehearsing  Well, good night, Judy.
judy		Good night, Phil.  Good night, Bob.
betty		 Good night.
phil		Let's get out of here before the gossip starts.
betty		Bob is still pacing up and down on the porch... I think I'll go out and see what's bothering him.
judy		That's how I started in Canton, Ohio.
betty		This is Vermont.  Nothing can happen here.
judy		Keep your guard up... That ain't Coolidge out on that porch.
betty		What are you doing?  Sleep walking?
bob		 Couldn't sleep.
betty		Whatever you've got on your mind isn't worth staying awake for.
bob		Where have I heard that?
betty		Tell you how I handle a situation like this, Doctor.
waverly		How could you send all my suits to the cleaners?
martha		You've only got two.
susan		Why can't you wear your uniform?
waverly		I won't appear in uniform!
susan		Please, Gramp.
waverly		Absolutely not!
martha		Very well.  I'll explain to Bob and Phil that you didn't care to come to the show tonight.
waverly		I'll have you court-martialed!
martha		You don't mind being ungrateful, you just don't like being told you are!
susan		 If you think you don't owe them anything, you're not obliged to go.
martha		They haven't done much for you. Hardly anything.  You do what you think is right!
waverly		 Martha, I'll make my own decisions! I got along very well in the army without you!
martha		It took 15,000 men to take my place!
pete		 Right this way.
bob		 This thing's shrunk.
phil		 Pants always shrink in closets.
bob		I can't breathe in this.  What am I going to do?
phil		I know what I'm going to do.  I'm going to take one big deep breath, and that's going to be it for the next three hours.
waverly		 Well, I couldn't come down in my bathrobe.
waverly		 Don't talk to them!  That is all!
bob		 Doesn't that bring back memories? Remember those terrible, trying days in Italy... when we had to beat the women off with chocolate bars?
phil		And wasn't it awful the way they kept bothering us for American cigarettes?  Why, I must have taught fifty girls how to smoke...
bob		For a month's pay all we got was 950 million lira...
phil		Nine hundred and fifty two...
bob		I was forced to hire a caddy for my loose change.
phil		Fore...!
bob		I'm glad I'm well out of it.
phil		Who are we kidding?
ed harrison		Long distance call for you, sir.
waverly		 Hurry up, hurry up, I'm busy. Yes, this is General Waverly.
waverly		 That's very nice of you, Mr. President... any time you want me, just say the word... but may I add this?  It isn't always necessary to take a job... sometimes it's enough just to know it's there.
waverly		If you ever take it into your mind to grab a little rest from all that work I wish you'd drop in on us here -- I can't promise you any golf but --  Thanks, Ike.
martha		You frightened me to death!  That bell hasn't been used for three months!
general		Get this area policed up.  No telling who might be dropping in.
martha		Yes, sir!
****Dialogues from script :White_Jazz.txt****

junior stemmons		We should make our move now.
me		Mid-fight? Look at the crowd: you wanna be at the center of a riot?
junior stemmons		I don't wanna be here when Noonan and the Feds show up.
me		We let Sanderline finish this beating, we get his gratitude.                          *
junior stemmons		We gonna let Rock-a-bye fight too-
me		-relax Junior.
me		Sanderline, I'm Lieutenant Klein of the LAPD and a real big fan-
junior stemmons		-you're under arrest.
me		No you're not. Reuben is-
reuben ruiz		-Lieutenant Dave why you arrest-
me		-for being a ranked fighter who still steals hubcaps. Shut up.  Reuben's in custody. But you could be our Guest. Whaddya say?
ring announcer		Ladies and Gentleman...due to circumstances beyond our control, Rock-A-Bye Ruiz will not fight this-
junior stemmons		C'MON-JESUS-HE'S RIGHT THERE!
me		Then you can stop pointing at him.
me		Hungry Sanderline?
sanderline johnson		If they got shrimp.
me		 You want something Reuben?
reuben ruiz		To know why the fuck I'm here-
junior stemmons		-mind your tone, Shitbird...
reuben ruiz		Shitbird went out with Vaudeville. You get your badge in a cereal box?
me		You're here because we want you to remember where you live.
sanderline		 City of Angels.
me		Excellent Sanderline.
reuben ruiz		What?
me		You live in LA, Asshole. You do not live in `Federal Government.'
junior stemmons		We get to spend time alone now.
reuben ruiz		Want some perfume?
me		Stop laughing.
sanderline johnson		-but they don't know...
me		 And they don't have to. Now tell me what you were gonna tell Noonan-
sanderline		Bet you they ran outta shrimp.
me		Yeah.
me		-who's `we?'
me		Tell Sam if I get minute-
unidentified voice		-yer gonna have to make a minute for him. Now. See, we think the Spade might testify that Sam owns him and how we was grooming him for a title shot he was gonna tank. A fight everybody woulda' got flush off of, including the Spade.                        *  Have him look out the window Klein.
me		Sanderline, you gotta see this...
sanderline johnson		What'm I-
me		DID THAT MUTT JUST JUMP?
bradley		Turn it off.
me		I was pissing. He was jumping.
bradley		`US Attorney Noonan is accusing the Los Angeles Police Department in general, and Lt. David Klein in particular, of murder at worst, gross incompetence at best...'
me		Noonan had Sanderline scared. After he sang to me he panicked & jumped.
tom bethune		He did spend a month in Camarillo Mental Hospital last year-
tom bethune		Plus, Reuben Ruiz recanted. So Noonan's Boxing Probe is dead. He's got nothing-
bradley		-but time, a mandate and new targets...I need to speak to the Lieutenant alone.
me		Take both men into custody before Noonan and the Feds could, and find                   * out what they were going to tell-
bradley		-and why did I choose you for this?
me		Because I'm a Cop with a law degree, and you thought my legal-
bradley		-because your a thug with a law degree. Because I thought by now you'd be so indebted to this Department for not indicting and/or                   * imprisoning you, that diligent, honest discharge of duty would be assured.  And I made a horrible misjudgment.                    *
me		Bethune and Gallaudet don't think so.
bradley		Bob's happy because he wants to be State Attorney General and his most likely opponent will be Welles Noonan. Tom's happy because Morton Diskant, who's leading their City Council race, is endorsed by Noonan. Thus, they're not seeing the larger play.  Noonan's new target will likely be the LAPD itself.
me		How do you know that?
bradley		Because that's where I would aim: a subpoenaed Federal witness plummets to his death in the company of two LAPD detectives?  This screams Police Corruption.                      * This offers Noonan the possibility of payback in the form of national headlines.
me		Johnson did that stint at the Nut House -- leak his file to your friends at the times-
bradley		My friends would be more interested in this.  It shocks and sickens me that your allegiance to the Chicago mob would take precedence over the LAPD.
me		 Gun? Shield? What?
bradley		The appearance of disciplinary measures taken against you are mandated post-Sanderline Johnson,                    * so your suspension will be recorded but sealed...and kept quiet for now-                 *
me		So if the papers or Noonan come sniffing around-
bradley		-we can provide adequate proof of your dismissal.
me		But you're not dismissing me.
bradley		Just on paper.  Since I misjudged the Cop I thought you were, I'm going to leverage the Cop that you are.
me		 You want me to torpedo Diskant so your buddy Bethune can win a City                      * Council seat uncontested-
bradley		-or spend the next month in lock-up                    * before being arraigned on charges                      * of gross misconduct and dereliction                    * of duty. The preamble before you                       * face life in prison for murder.                        *
meg		 I already got the Times inside.
meg		How much is true?
me		How many times have I lied to you?
meg		Zero.
me		You've always liked your Men mean.
me		What would Mom and Dad say?
me		Nothing. That's where I learned it.
meg		Poor you.
me		Yeah, pour me...a cup please. Black, no sugar.
meg		It's work.
me		How's Pete?
meg		More work.  Quiet while we wait for the pot...and quiet always means creeping sleep: an Enemy I never stop fighting. Force my eyes open, shift in my seat: I've been exhausted for years.  I drift despite my best efforts and for a split second you see the Hell I see when sleep wins:
pete		 You look like Death taking a shit.
meg		He's still got that MGM-face.
pete		You're still the only guy who ever traded movie-potential for Police work.
meg		Because in the movies they make you pull your punches.
me		Wanna do LAPD a favor tonight?
meg		No. We're going to the Cocoanut-
pete		'Favor' mean `free?'
me		Means $500 an hour.
meg		Gimme the phone so I can find another Date-
me		-you're the only Woman I know who calls Men-
meg		-you're the only Man I know who doesn't call Women.
pete		What are we doing?
junior stemmons		You got a birthday coming up.
me		What?
junior stemmons		On the 16th, right? How old?
me		Old. What are you writing?                          *
junior stemmons		Just notes...about work-
me		-what `work'?
junior stemmons		Mostly compare and contrast stuff. Street work versus textbook-
me		-chapter 1: don't write shit down. Chapter 2: or other Cops might kill                 * you.
junior stemmons		So you think Noonan will come after you for the Sanderline thing? He seems like a real hard charger.
me		 I heard he was coming after both of us.
junior stemmons		What?
me		Indictments. Prison time. Whole nine.
junior stemmons		Holy Jesus. Is this true?
me		I'm seriously thinking about turning Junior...testifying against you.
junior stemmons		He should suck his dick. Y'know? Put the icing on it.
pete		What?
junior stemmons		Tell me that wouldn't sell it...plus he's a Communist.
me		We're ruining his career, not his soul. Reload the camera.
morton diskant		Off me!
me		Drop out of the City Council race or I send these pictures to the papers.
morton diskant		I'll fight you rotten-
me		-and maybe salvage something that's a close cousin to `respect.' But what about your wife and kid getting hold of those pictures?
quiff		My name's Franklin-
me		-of course it is.
diskant		-don't say my name...
pete		He gets it.
me		Someone from the Times will call for a quote. Whatever your reason for dropping out make it real.
diskant		 You eventually lose the ability to reconcile the things you've done to people. That's Hell.
pete		 Y'know Hughes has a job you're tailor-made for. I already gave him your-
me		-no thanks.
pete		Stop pretending you're not a pig for all this, Klein.
me		I still got a day job, Pete-
pete		-tossing more Bantamweights out                       * windows?
me		The Mutt jumped.
pete		 C'mon -- it's a cake legal gig. He                    * just wants you to burn some actress that stopped fucking him.
me		 ...yeah...Narco's Snitch.
me		So send Robbery.
me		Why me?
bradley		Call it penance.
me		I thought that's what Morton Diskant was-
bradley		-that makes one of us. 1284 South                         * Tremaine. 
me		Junior. Meet me at 1284 South                         * Tremaine. 20 minutes.
wilhite		Why are you here?
me		You smell like bourbon Wilhite-
wilhite		-fuck off. This is handled. And pull your idiot partner out of there-
me		-Junior's already here-
wilhite		-Magdalena was my Snitch, so it's my scene.
me		Then get Bradley on the horn, so you can relay that order. I'm here on his word. Now, what happened?
wilhite		 Guard dogs are dead. Magdalena's missing.
me		And presumed what?
wilhite		I could give a shit. I just want to this case to get a quick burial.
me		I'll bet. Who made the call?
wilhite		Some old broad heard an `argument' and buzzed Wilshire Station.                *
me		Where's the family?
wilhite		The wife and daughter were in Santa Barbara. Just got back.
me		 At 2 AM?                                    *
wilhite		What do you think they were                 * fighting about? Santa Barbara Wasps         * don't fancy dope-pushing Wetbacks.
me		What about the Son?                         *
wilhite		 Tommy. Make him your #1 suspect.
me		Why's that?                                 *
wilhite		He's got a mean streak. And he and          * Hector had been at each others throats for months. Have Tommy              * picked up. He likes to loaf at              * those nigger jazz joints in Watts.          *
me		Alright, you better cut out before                      * people start asking why the head of Narco is at a missing persons.
wilhite		Get a conviction. Grab Tommy and pin this thing fast or you'll have a whole division of disgraced cops at your front door.
me		What are you talking about Wilhite?
wilhite		You queered the Fed's   Fight Probe by killing that boxer   and they already had a hard-on   for the LAPD-                   * Bradley sent you down   here as damaged goods...think   about it. Everybody sees what's   coming.  Now close this quick.
biddie		 -shifty...colored...y'know Negros are planning an invasion! After our white women and our water supply-
officer		-where was this Peeper you saw?
biddie		Bushes. Spyin' on Lucille. Seen him                   * there before! He's a black saboteur                   * looking for fertile white wombs. Wanna breed a mulatto master race-                    *
me		Officer.
officer		Heard an argument, loud, maybe a minute or two, then silence.
me		What's this `Peeper' riff she's on?
officer		She saw someone in the bushes earlier. She's reported that kind of thing a dozen other times. She's also reported flying saucers, so...
me		See if any of the other Neighbors can verify this `Peeper' thing.                       *
junior stemmons		No one touch a thing `til I say.
me		-Lieutenant Klein. I said `meet me' in twenty minutes' not `go in without me.'
junior stemmons		All I've been doing-
me		 -is stepping on dicks. You don't know the history, the players or the play.
junior stemmons		-what Department?
me		Us Pollyanna -- LAPD. We bullet- proofed him in exchange for 60% of his profit and a promise he only deal drugs in Darktown and East LA-                  *
junior stemmons		-Black and Mexican-
me		-give the man a prize. He'd also                     * rat his competition and kill the ones we couldn't convict. Now keep your mouth shut and stay on my hip.
me		-are all the Magdalena vehicles accounted for?
junior stemmons		Except for the Son's: Tommy.                         *
me		OFFICER.
officer		No, I asked. Just the yelling.
me		She didn't hear barking...so they were either lousy guard dogs...or they knew the Killer.  Like when you shoot something with a silencer.
junior stemmons		How do you know that?
me		 I've shot things with silencers... And the old lady didn't hear any                      * gunshots.
junior stemmons		You make a family member for it? Tommy?
me		Maybe...                                              *
junior stemmons		Do you want to issue an APB?
me		I want to talk to Bradley first. Where are the Mother and Daughter?                   *
me		It's Klein.
me		Hector's gone. Blood that may or may not be his leads out to the                      * garage. Two guard dogs shot dead but no other signs of a struggle. The house is intact.
bradley		Family?
me		Wife and Daughter are here.
bradley		Describe their state.
me		Mother Madge aggrieved.                              *  Daughter Lucille...indifferent. The                  * son is persona non grata and a strong early suspect.
bradley		Alright, kick everyone out. Including all police personnel.
me		How's that?
bradley		Don't question me. Is your partner on hand?
me		Yeah...                                               *
bradley		Have him bag and seal everything and bring it to Wilshire Station. Find Tommy Magdalena post-haste and take him into custody. No APB's, nothing to alert Noonan and the FBI to this situation.
me		You want me to-
bradley		-no more information over an open                     * line. I'll be at the Bethune event later on today. Find me there.
me		I'm giving you on-scene command.                      * Bradley wants everyone removed from the premises and the entire house bagged for evidence and brought to Wilshire Station.  Can you handle this?
junior stemmons		Entirely. Where are you going?
me		To find Tommy Magdalena.
me		 Get Lester and get me a scotch                        * straight.                                             *
bartender		Sanderline Johnson was my second                      * cousin, Peckerwood. I wouldn't                        * drink that with my gun hand.
lester lake		Lieutenant Dave Klein. Slayer of                      * Sanderline Johnson...y'got stones                     * showing up this far South.                            *
me		What happened to your face?
lester lake		 Tommy Mag wanted to make sure I understood something he was saying.
me		Where is he?
lester lake		Left an hour ago. Emptied my safe.
me		Shit. He's wise.
lester lake		To what? You looking for him?
me		 Just never got this...
lester lake		Too white to appreciate good grass.                   *
me		Hector Magdalena is missing, presumed dead. Tommy is our sole suspect.
lester lake		Muthafucker -- there is a God. If only I'd known this an hour ago.
me		Heartbreaker, huh? You let him gig here last night?
lester lake		I don't let him, he just does. Nails on a chalkboard too. He rushed the stage last week when we had Charlie Mingus drop in for a set. Mingus looked at this half-Mex                   * greaser kid trying to play `Round                     * Midnight,' said that fool couldn't                    * find them keys with a flashlight.'
me		Tommy's playing days are over.
lester lake		Hallelujah.
me		What time did he show up?
lester lake		Around four. Him and these Pachucos         * poppin' switchblades like punks.  Is he really dead?                          *
me		There's blood all over his house, seems to belong to him. There's just no body. Not yet.
lester lake		 I don't feature Tommy for it.               *
me		                   * How's that? How many times has he           * been in here, busted you up?
lester lake		Yeah, but he ain't got the salt             * to truly take a Man's life.                 * Especially not Hector's...he was            * scared of him.                              *
lester lake		Drugs. Especially here in South Central. Hector ran it uncontested. Lotta cats gonna rush in now, try to plant a flag.                                      *
me		Tommy can't hold the throne?                          *
lester lake		Tommy couldn't hold his pecker without Hector's help and he knows                    * that. He's gonna bury himself like                    * a tick. Good luck turning him up,                     * he took six or seven grand out the                    * safe tonight.
me		Eyes and ears for me Lester. He turns up, you get in touch.  LESTER LAKE                                   * If I don't kill him first.                              *
tom bethune		Not at all. My message of civic advancement manifested in that beautiful blue baseball team was starting to hit home.
tom bethune		I like my Dodger Dogs with mustard and relish!
koenig		I wouldn't have expected so public a showing after Sanderline Johnson.
me		He jumped Fritz.
koenig		I'm sure he did. And where is your young partner this day?
me		Working his first big job.
koenig		Might the job involve the LAPD's most important missing Wetback, Hector Magdalena?
me		It does.
koenig		I've known Stemmons since the academy. He was a top pupil. A                * peculiar little pain in the ass, but very good with details.
me		Kid might have some climb in him.  Reminds me of another pain in the ass.
koenig		I'm puzzled as to why the Bradley would assign you to the Magdalena                     * case when you're neither Homicide nor Robbery...
me		There's no body, and nothing was taken except Hector.
koenig		He does know how to delegate doesn't he...and also I'm sure that poor Negro's nosedive has put you squarely in his debt.
me		Something like that.                                  *
koenig		Keep me abreast will you? Chief Parker is understandably nervous. Situations like these tend to yield grief...and we've the FBI poking                      * around our garden patch.                              *
me		My ass first Fritz, yours second.
bradley		-no. We can't risk that. Do you             * make him for the murderer?
me		Yeah. Hector's disappearance is definitely an inside job. That whole family feels hinky. The daughter was all bruises and no tears and Hector's hop-head wife            * looks part punching bag.
bradley		Do you suspect either of the women?         *
me		According to Wilhite, they were in Santa Barbara at the time.
bradley		Verify that. Where is your partner?
me		Vouching in evidence at Wilshire Station.
bradley		Keep him on that. He had excellent ratings as an evidence teacher and          * I trust him more than you.  Find Tommy Magdalena. Focus everything on that effort & I want him apprehended Klein, not killed.
me		What about Hector? Still missing.
bradley		And most likely dead. Find the Son.         * Stakeout the residence. Put tails on both the mother and daughter -- I want this investigation working quietly, and around the clock.
me		Wilhite. He was operating Hector-
bradley		-don't worry about Dan Wilhite. You deal directly with me. Now go out the back. I don't want the press recognizing you.
me		You got a light?
woman		 You got a cigarette?
me		It didn't look like you were all that upset with the attention.
woman		Good thing you're not a cop.
me		 How's that?
woman		Your power of observation leaves lots to be desired.
me		Thank you.
woman		Don't thank me: these things are bad for you.
me		You believe everything you read?
woman		You believe anything you read?
me		 Do you eat Dinner?
woman		No.
me		This everything from the house?
junior stemmons		Everything worthwhile.
me		What did you tell the Watch Commander upstairs?
junior stemmons		                     * -here, this one, `Hurwitz Holdings'         * Hector had some real estate dealings-
me		-bag it until Bradley orders us otherwise.
junior stemmons		               * How do you solve a case when the evidence is in bags?
me		You don't. Our job is to find Tommy.  And why is that out?
junior stemmons		 -I thought we were investigating Magdalena's disappearance-
me		-Don't write shit down. What do you         * need Kid? A little bouncing ball,           * bottom of the screen?                       *  Magdalena is twenty years dirty with this Department...do you think         * a word of that exists on paper?
junior stemmons		...No.
junior stemmons		Sure, Lieutenant.                                       *
me		Shit.
milteer		Gregory Milteer. Attorney-at-Law. A pleasure Lt. Klein.
me		Dave. Sorry I'm late.                                  *
milteer		Indeed.  Please.
me		 Where's Mr. Hughes?
milteer		Unavailable. Unfortunately. But I've been given full authority to-
me		-I'm not contagious...if that's what he's worried about.
milteer		I don't find that the least bit humorous Lt. Klein.
me		Yes you do. What's your pitch Mr.                      * Milteer?
milteer		An `Actress' named Glenda Bledsoe signed a Service Contract that she's now willfully violating by acting in a Z-grade horror picture presently `shooting' in Griffith Park. Despite entreaties for her to cease participation in this absurdity, she continues to revel in her outlaw status with us. Thus we would like her destroyed.
me		What makes you think I can do a better job than your people?
milteer		Mr. Bondurant says you're one of the smarter people he knows-
me		-dubious honor if you knew the other people Pete knows.  So you want to catch her in violation of her Service Contract? Something like that?
milteer		Exactly. The morality clause in particular as the damage to her reputation would be most devastating: Nymphomaniac, Criminal, Communist...anything along these lines. Once you visit the set of her `Attack of the Atomic Vampires,' you'll see the void that is her character. We haven't a photograph handy, but she's playing the lead female role.         *
me		I'm happy to help. But my price is
milteer		$10,000 should buy more than help.
me		For 10 give it any name you want. I'm a salaried employee of LAPD,                      * that means I'll have to find time off hours to do this.
milteer		Agreed. Start tonight. Someone's                      * been stealing groceries from our talent domiciles. There's no proof that it's her, but it's her. Peter will provide you addresses.
me		 Thank you Peter.
milteer		We look forward to your updates.
me		Sergeant, pass a message to Stemmons: I want him to meet me at the one-thousand block of South Tremaine tonight at 11 and at some point between now and then, I'll need him to do a preliminary work- up on a woman named Glenda Bledsoe.  B-L-E-D-S-O-E. Thanks.
director		This is the big Armada landing, so I need everybody's energy up, up up! Where's my Alien Commander?
werewolf		RIGHT HERE GOD DAMN IT.
mickey cohen		Where Klein goes tsuris follows. This is what I hate about being down, lip from the likes of you.
me		If this is `down' I never want to see `out.' How the mighty have fallen.
mickey cohen		 Which one of us are you talking about Klein? Word is the Federal Bureau is all hot and bothered with you Gonif. Hey, I hear J. Edgar schtups his personal assistant and makes him wear ladies hose.
me		What else are you hearing?
mickey cohen		That this Welles Noonan character has developed quite a crush. That you might want to consider relocating to Dogdick, Delaware.
me		Been a marked man for years Mick.
mickey cohen		But the bullseye on your back's never been quite so big...if you need a new line of work, I got this faygele leading man needs replacing-
mickey cohen		His agent told me he could play straight.
me		No. But I am interested in your                       * leading lady. Bradley sent me. Saw                    * her at the Bethune-
mickey cohen		-not a chance. I'm still trying to play hide the submarine.
me		You want Chief Bradley angry?
mickey cohen		Ten years ago I could call for that                   * little Pisher's head on a stick.  And now...
me		And now the only thing you're putting on sticks are corn dogs. What's her name, Mick?
mickey cohen		Glenda.
me		                           * Why was she there?
mickey cohen		Low-budget strategy: I send Glenda and Rock to any event where there's cameras -- Glenda gets guest-a'- honor treatment everywhere with that shape a' her's...
me		What she drive?
glenda bledsoe		Coffee's in the kitchen. Let's go over this quick because I'm beat.
director		We're set on a place where we can stash you and Rock. It's in Topanga Canyon, two weeks-
rockwell		 -two weeks? My body'll fall apart-
glenda bledsoe		-think of it as 14 days of push-ups-  Are you sure about this Sid? Seems shaky. Was this Mickey's idea?
director		And I think it's brilliant! Inspired! The two leads of Mickey Cohen's magnum opus get kidnapped! The press'll eat it up! They'll write about `Gangster Mickey,' the glory days. Couple a' headlines like that and interest in Atomic Vampires will go through the roof!  Who's gonna grab you?
glenda bledsoe		A charmer I knew in another life...George Ainge.
sid frizell		Is he okay with making it look real-
rockwell		-he can't hit me in the face!                         * That's a deal-breaker!
glenda bledsoe		He'll be thrilled to knock me around. Plus he's holding something of mine, so we can kill two birds. He'll grab us Tuesday in front of the Pacific Dining Car.                               *
rockwell		What about Hughes?
glenda bledsoe		What about him? That angle can only help us.
sid frizell		I'm dying to know...was he the Spruce Goose between the sheets?
me		STOP-
welles noonan		That's for Sanderline Johnson.
me		 ARE YOU BLIND-
welles noonan		-what were you firing at?
me		The only lead on Magdalena -- we're after the same guy you idiot!
welles noonan		 No, we were after you. But thanks for the name.
me		Coffee?
koenig		Ice. Bradley's on his way down.
junior stemmons		That's mine...you needed some                        * mopping up.
me		Who found me?
junior stemmons		I did. I got there at eleven like you said, right as two black & white's pulled up: you were out                      * cold in a gutter `round the block.                   *  Did Noonan knock you out?
me		He hit me with his car first.
junior stemmons		 The Captain was the only one here at this hour...                                      *
klein		If I need your help later on, can I count on it?
koenig		Of course you can.
bradley		What are you doing here?
koenig		The Lieutenant was thirsty.
bradley		Progress on Magdalena.
junior stemmons		No fingerprints. Clean crime scene. Canvassed the neighborhood. A senile neighbor did report a possible Peeper-
me		-confirmed Peeper.
bradley		Is that who knocked you out?
me		Noonan knocked me out.
bradley		 He's having you tailed then...
me		And he knows the Magdalena name and that I was chasing a suspect -- the                    * Peeper Lucille strips for.                             *
junior stemmons		She knows someone watches?
me		And who he is. She has to.  I want access to her juvie sheet or                    * whatever arrest records exist.                         * Rumor was Hector whored her out to                     * dealers he did business with.                          *
bradley		That's immaterial.                                     *
me		No. Madge was a battered wife and                    * Lucille was a suborned whore. If                     * that's not motive, what is? You                      * want answers then we brace those                     * two hard.
me		Noonan will figure out who and what Hector was sooner or later.                     *
me		-until when?
bradley		Until Tom Bethune votes on the floor of the city council in two days, ratifying the official start of construction on Dodger stadium-
me		-this is bigger than a fucking ballpark! Hector Magdalena and Narco is the powder-keg, blows the              * whole Department to hell.                       *
bradley		Don't be dramatic, it looks weak. Right now, Noonan needs a pursuit, so I supply him with one-                       *
me		-me. You want me to draw him off-               *
bradley		-you've been drawing him off. And the more he sees you the less he'll think of anything other than getting you. Now find Tommy and                 * take him alive. Do not let Noonan               * get to him. As a potential major                * case witness against the LAPD,                  * Tommy Magdalena isn't just a powder-            * keg, he's an atom bomb.                         *
me		Seltzer will take the blood out.
junior stemmons		I give you the shirt off my back                        * and you bash me!                                        *
me		When a Superior Officer tells you to leave the room, you leave the                        * fucking room.                                           *
junior stemmons		I made a file on the Bledsoe broad. The one you asked about.
me		Thanks. But forget it.
junior stemmons		I spent a whole day putting it together and this skirt's got skeletons.
me		Forget it. Burn it, s'not important now.
junior stemmons		Why is it not important?
me		I need an address on a guy named Ainge, George Ainge-                                    *
junior stemmons		-what about Magdalena?
me		-after you get the Ainge address,                       * get back to the Magda-
junior stemmons		 -is Ainge related to this Cunt?
me		We're partners in name only. You want to stay in the room next time, Junior? Do something to impress me: like finding that address.
glenda bledsoe		Better looking than the last guy Howard hired. Once you heal.  Wait a minute. You were there, the other night, the Bethune Party...                     *
me		Yeah.                                                 *
glenda		Mickey told me this `Bent Cop' everybody used to call-  -`The Enforcer' was asking about me. Told me to be careful. So you're LAPD after all...
me		In theory.
glenda bledsoe		You're going to arrest me for breaking and entering?
me		Depends.  Those Howard's?
glenda bledsoe		Everything's Howard's.
me		Except you.
glenda bledsoe		That's why I left.
me		You just shop here now?
glenda bledsoe		Some of our extras haven't had a vegetable since Truman.
me		Attack of the Atomic Vampires...
glenda bledsoe		 We can't all be Audrey Hepburn. Plus it pays bills.
me		Better than a billionaire does? Go make amends and finish out your service contract Ms. Bledsoe.
glenda bledsoe		Not if there was just one day left on it.
me		Why?
glenda bledsoe		I'm better than that.
me		You're also better than a starring role in schlock horror flick that'll never see a screen, regardless if it's leading lady gets `kidnapped' or not.                              *
glenda bledsoe		This isn't the first time you've spied on me.
me		Nor the second.
glenda bledsoe		 Well you've got me all giftwrapped, Enforcer-
me		-Dave. You're on Hughes' bad side Ms. Bledsoe. It's not a bright place to be. So please go-
glenda bledsoe		-Glenda.  And tell Howard I'll take my chances with the fake vampires.
me		Klein. Go ahead...                                      *
dispatch		Message from a Lester Lake: asked that you contact him immediately.
me		Get me Lester. This is Lieutenant Klein, LAPD-
lester lake		Dave?
me		Got your message.
lester lake		Girl that works here, gigs the late sets, the torch stuff Fridays and                 * Saturdays, name of Tilly Hopwell.                 *
me		I saw her singing the other night.
lester lake		I think she's been truckin' with Tommy Mag. Got pipes like Ella but she's a junk fiend: caught her                    * mainlining in the ladies room a month back.                                       *
me		Heroin? Tommy get her hooked?
lester lake		Dunno, but when he'd get drunk,                   * he'd trade Horse for blowjobs out                 * back a' the club.                                 *
me		Where's this girl now?                            *
lester lake		Didn't show up for work last night.               * Called a friend of hers, a waitress that works here too, said she was                 * at Bido Lito's in Hollywood. Said                 * she was `hiding out.'
me		She actually said `hiding out?'                   *
lester lake		Then she got off the phone. Fast. If Tilly's running with that demon,               * you gotta get her out of there. She               * got a lot more good in her than not-              *
tommy magdalena		-RAT FUCK COP! YOU KILLED HIM                           * WILHITE!
me		Shots fired, 1600 block of Ivar.                        * Suspect fleeing scene in red `32                        * Ford Deuce travelling westbound on                      * Wilcox, vehicle impaired, intercept                     * at Hollywood Blvd-
me		-and I need an ambulance to respond to 1607 North Ivar, second floor, female negro, possible overdose.
junior stemmons		Dave?                             * Dave!                                                 *
me		Where's Dan Wilhite?
me		Or was it that Peeper across the                      * street that jacks off to your sad                     * little shows-                                         *
wilhite		-GOD DAMN YOU!                                        *
me		Am I? Where's Hector? You can't file murder charges without a corpse. Who knows this? Cops know this- You would know this.
wilhite		-I'm going to the review board and have you cited for-
wilhite		I have no fucking idea what you're-
me		-he ever offer her to you?                            *
me		I don't care where you get your                         * dick wet Wilhite. I care that                           * you're covering. Twenty years dirty                     * with this fucked-up family...your                       * secrets must stink like rot.                            *  Red and blue light strobe from outside. Look: an unmarked         * caravan arrives. Bradley leading the charge, leaping from his     * sedan. Wilhite gets a split-second's worth of gloat/glee.         *  WILHITE                                       * You're worried about every wrong                        * thing Klein. Bradley's tee'ing you                      * up to take a big fat fall-                              *  ME                                            * -then we'll hold hands on the way                       * down: look further up the street.                       *                                    * I know I'm going down Dan...that's                      * the difference between you and me.                      *  Open the door.                                                    *
klein		Central, this is Klein, I need an update on that overdose I called in. What's the girl's condition?
dispatch		Lieutenant Klein, the girl, Tilda Hopwell was pronounced D.O.A. at Hollywood Presbyterian Hospital-
me		Yeah.
koenig		Doing some ad hoc dope seizures for Dan Wilhite.  Still love taking the occasional door down.
me		You were born for the street Fritz. I never featured you for the suit and tie set.
koenig		We're of a common bloodline Boy-o.
me		Where'd you get that haul?
koenig		Parker appreciates Bradley's political skills...and the addition of a professional Ball-club to our fare city fulfills his own personal mandate of a cleaner, brighter, LA.
me		Sounds boring.
koenig		Stale milk to me too. And how are you faring? Is our visiting U.S. Attorney still in hot pursuit?  Look up. Let him see it in my face: humorless and half lit.  ME                                           * Borrowed time Fritz.                                   *  KOENIG                                       * Anything I can do?                                     *  ME                                          * Yeah...a small favor.                                  *  Bigger than your own?                                  *  ME                                           * A lot bigger.                                          *
glenda bledsoe		Impossible.
me		Me too.
me		Bradley trying to bury me too. That subpoena means my fifteen year career with the LAPD just went up in smoke.
me		Hey-
me		You find him?
pete		Yeah. I swung by his apartment, car was out front. I scoped it: a sawed- off shotgun in front, canned tuna in the back seat. Think he's living outta that car. After he left, I tried to get inside his place: The front door is triple pad-locked.
me		 That knife is in there-
pete		-the what?
me		Meet me down the street from his place. You got bolt cutters?
pete		I'll bring `em.
me		Thirty minutes.
pete		Who's car is that?
me		Long story.
pete		Junior looked real skeezed this morning. Like he was on a dope jag.
me		Yeah?
pete		Sweated up like a stuck pig. And be careful. He was fucking around with his front door before he left. I don't know what he was doing.
me		Two honks if he shows. Then meet me in the alley, back of his place.
pete		 What about this Bledsoe broad? Milteer has called me twice.
me		 One thing at a time pal.
pete		Asshole!
me		Get it open if you can and meet me back at Meg's!  Doesn't move until I pull the pin on the pineapple, drop the pin down on him. He jumps back in, peels off-
junior stemmons		Stay right here. I'll get it all and come back. Don't move.
welles noonan		Breaking and entering, theft, and willful destruction of private property...and I'll add attempted murder to the current first degree murder charge I'm about to file against you.
me		Proof. If you had it, you wouldn't be fucking around with shitty shakedown routine -- you'd file. Coercion equals confession. So let's see you pound it out of me.
welles noonan		Where are the files you stole from Sergeant Richard Stemmons.
me		Junior. Your secret weapon right? I mean, I know J. Edgar is a slanted fuck, but traditionally `vicious fags' don't make the best major case witnesses.  I'm worried those burning dildos may have damaged his credibility.
welles noonan		Oh I don't need his testimony Klein. I'll just force yours.
me		Not if you had the next hundred years.
welles noonan		Sanderline Johnson, your links to Sam Giancana to Mickey Cohen, extortion, bribes, murder-for-hire. I'll put you in every pair of cross- hairs I can find. I'll torch everything you've ever touched. You have no idea how deep I run Klein. And how far I'm willing to go to fuck you-
me		-everyone knows I'm a piece-a-shit. What are you proving? Bradley's the guy flanking you right now. The guy who's vulnerable right now.
welles noonan		You're all angles and graft Klein. Why trust a God damn word that comes out of your-
me		-you done anything with the Magdalena case?
welles noonan		 Prelims: drug pusher gone missing, presumed dead, we're investigat-
me		 -Dealing drugs for 20 years! Arrested once. Hall a' fame career! You photographed the head of Narco in-front of his house...
welles noonan		AND?
me		Jesus Christ, you need cue cards?  Come after me: you get me. Go after what I can give you and you get the LAPD's power-set on a slab.
welles noonan		I don't believe you'd turn. Treacherous yes, traitorous no. Tell me where Stemmons' files are.
me		I'll bring them to you.
welles noonan		You're not leaving here Klein.
me		Then like I said: you only get me.
welles noonan		I'll take it.
me		I give you the body of Dan Wilhite, head of LAPD's Narcotics Division. Proof of a 20-year criminal collusion between his department and Hector Magdalena and my testimony to link the dots.  Then I leave LA for good.
welles noonan		What happened to Wilhite?
me		Suicide.
welles noonan		Like Sanderline Johnson?
me		No more tails. I don't want anyone else incriminated.
welles noonan		Agreed.
me		 I get a copy of that?
welles noonan		After a judge signs it. Now Leave.
welles noonan		No. Let him get comfortable...let him believe me.
pete		I know what Feds look like -- those were Feds with Junior...
me		Yeah and they made me leaving the scene. Had to barter out.
pete		Barter what?
me		My Testimony. I signed a Federal Witness Agreement.
pete		You what?
me		It's bullshit. Noonan's got no intention of honoring it.  They want Stemmons files though. I think Junior's been working angles for awhile, doing his own investigations.
pete		What did you do to his place? Nice quiet neighborhood one minute, Nagasaki the next.
me		 How much longer do you need?
pete		Few more hours. Maybe. Junior didn't skimp on this thing. I gotta bore right through the face plate.  You got some time now, why don't you get Milteer off my back and go work that Bledsoe broad.
me		You read my mind.
me		...tell me if I'm being too rough.
me		Tell me anything. Tell me everything.
glenda bledsoe		Where would I start?
me		Why here?
glenda bledsoe		Why L.A.?  Why is anybody here? Want the rest of the world to know who they are.
me		You?
glenda bledsoe		No...I don't think so.  I just love it. I grew up in Seattle. My aunt, every week, she'd take me to the movies.
me		-your ticket to immortality?
glenda bledsoe		Hughes told me he could get me in for this screen test two years ago. Movie with Gregory Peck at Universal. He thought he was humoring me...until I got it. They offered me the role...there in the room. So Howard, who I'm sure never thought in a million years I'd land that part, makes some phone calls and just like that they don't want me anymore.  Nobody calls now. I can't get in to see any studio casting people. He's ruined me in those circles.
me		And you still want it-
glenda bledsoe		-bad enough to put on a silly cheerleading skirt and try to make the most god-awful dialogue sound decent.
me		Surrounded by winos in werewolf suits.  That's...dedication.
glenda bledsoe		Or desperation. Depends on the day.
me		Dwight Gillette.
glenda bledsoe		He asked me to take his `niece and nephew' to their cousin in Oxnard. These beautiful, funny little kids.  Why do they call you `Enforcer?'
me		I've killed 44 men.
glenda bledsoe		`For profit -- mostly.'
me		I'm not much good.
glenda bledsoe		Me neither.
pete		Junior documented everything like a fucking Monk. 
me		You been up all night?
pete		In-case Stemmons made a house-call. He's got every goddamn address of everybody you know...  And you should've told me about the Bledsoe broad.
me		There's nothing to tell.
pete		Then call Milteer about this dead Pimp Gillette. I'm no legal mind like you, but I'll bet a murder beef would violate her morals clause quick.  Collect the rest of your money.
me		I don't want it anymore.
pete		Then give that five grand back.
me		Junior stole it.
pete		People are gonna start lining-up to see you bleed, Pal.
koenig		 Your young partner called me at my home, early this morning.
me		Yeah.
koenig		And his apartment -- there was some type of disturbance? A fire?
me		That's why I needed his address. I was trying to help him before something like this happened. The kid snapped-in-half Fritz. He's literally lost it.  He say anything else to you?
koenig		Only that he was in possession of materials that might deeply damage Chief Bradley...and yourself.
me		Like I said Fritz, he's flipped his lid. I don't want to go to Internal Affairs but I'm afraid Junior might've forced just that.
koenig		Let me try to locate the lad first Dave. Be a shame to ruin such a young career so soon.
me		Be careful Fritz. He's dangerous.
me		Where is he?
secretary		 Out at the Ravine Lieutenant.
bradley		-this area has long been rife with crime and venality, but with a brand new Stadium, we can make this horrible blight a bright spot and give our Los Angeles Dodgers the home they deserve.  Reuben Ruiz can tell you of his travails growing up in this horrible slum and why now is the time to `Redeem The Ravine.'
bradley		-Welles Noonan is an unscrupulous hack politician whose smear campaign against us will fail, for he has grievously underestimated the moral rectitude of the Los Angeles Police Department.
bradley		Now if you'll excuse me, I'll leave you with Reuben Ruiz.
me		Your subpoena hasn't caught up to me yet, Chief...
me		Word gets out that the three City Officials who were pushing hardest for a Stadium also stood to gain a mint -- might color public opinion. Might color it even more to know that the LAPD's Chief of Detectives was trying to purchase a huge tract of that land from the biggest dope dealer in town.
me		Hector Magdalena owned ten and half acres of this land. 
bradley		How?
me		Junior Stemmons. The ex-evidence teacher. His `excellent ratings' didn't stop him from stealing the Magdalena seizure and doing his own investigation.
bradley		Why would he investigate me?
me		That was stapled to the cover.  Why would Noonan worry about a Turd like me now...when a high profile target like you can be taken down.
bradley		Where is Stemmons?
me		No idea. If you haven't spoken to Internal Affairs today, I'm sure they've called. Junior's apartment caught fire. Deeply deviant material inside. Round him up-  -and anyone he's got with him.
bradley		I'll issue an A.P.B. saying Stemmons is a known deviant targeting kindergarten children.
me		Now, quid pro quo...you subpoenaed Wilhite too.
bradley		How do y-
me		-don't worry `how.' Why?
bradley		Exposing the corrupt parts of the LAPD will redeem the whole. I'll prove that Police can police themselves-
me		-so you show-up Noonan...co-opt his crusade and condemn your own before he can...Jesus Christ can you turn lemons to lemonade.
bradley		No Cop will testify against other Cops. This is why Wilhite has suddenly disappeared.
me		And how.  So where do we go now Chief?
me		-that report is only useful to Noonan now.
bradley		No. It ensures our mutual destruction should you choose to share the contents of that Stemmons file. Which I know you won't do until you figure out how it will best benefit you.
me		Dead body.
pete		Fucking Christ. You can't keep that car in the garage, the smell's coming into the house.
meg		Open the windows.
pete		That's not gonna help.
me		 Take a couple bottles of bleach, pour it over the trunk.
pete		What do you got in there?
me		My foreseeable future.
meg		I'm going to work.
me		You taking her?
pete		 I'm taking her.
pete		Hughes.
me		This is almost over Pete -- I'll give Milteer the five-grand back.
pete		It's more than that.
me		I'll square it. It's my thing.
pete		That you made mine.
me		I'm sorry.
pete		Look as bad as I've ever seen you.
me		Things are as bad as they've ever been...
junior stemmons		MOTHERFUCKER -- you better meet me! That Cooze you threw everything away for is still cooked! I got the knife. I got Ainge-
me		How'd you get this number Junior?
junior stemmons		I got everything on you! AND I'M GONNA USE IT!
me		-you're a broom-closet Queer. Your career is over.
junior stemmons		The knife for MY file on Bradley. I know you already burned that Whore's but don't think I can't re- do investigations.
me		You snitch to Noonan, then what?
junior stemmons		Fuck Noonan. I got stronger Allies.
me		Who? The Soviets?
junior stemmons		Meet me in one hour with that file, Fern Dell Park-
me		-Where you used to snag fruits for Vice? A volunteer gig I'm guessing.
junior stemmons		Be there with Bradley's file or I scratch your scabby Bitch.
me		Hey, did the Feds dig your pad?
glenda bledsoe		-Dave?
me		 Glenda?
glenda bledsoe		Sorry...you gave me this number...
me		Jesus...hey...
glenda		Who were you talking-
me		-no, no. It's nothing. I had a phone call, just before yours.
glenda		Was it him? The Cop you were telling me about?
me		I don't want you to worry. I'm handling it. But I might send my friend Pete out there.
glenda		You don't think it's safe?
me		I'd just rather have someone there with you.
glenda		I wish you would've woken me up this morning.
me		I'm better-looking in low light, I didn't want to blow it for myself.
glenda		I miss you.
me		Where's the knife.
me		Turn your lights off...and just come out and talk to me...Fritz.
koenig		Not much with these sub-rosa things...
me		 I thought it was Noonan tailing me.
koenig		Bradley's greatest stroke was enlisting you to his side.
koenig		When did you know?
me		I didn't. I had a feeling. I smelled cover-up all over Hector's disappearance and Wilhite wouldn't have the muscle or the mind-set to kingpin something that big by himself...you knew about Bradley trying to buy him out?
koenig		He was offering to exonerate Hector and clear his criminal record. Hector met with Wilhite and I to inform us of his decision...
koenig		Darktown. Chavez Ravine. Hot Spots for Human Vice. These are slums I run & profit from. If these slums suddenly become Stadiums, that profit goes elsewhere...that crime goes elsewhere.
me		Bradley...you two got greed in common.
me		You knew about Wilhite and Lucille. That's how you were operating him.
koenig		I was aware of his sexual predilections.
me		 ...and someone else's...
koenig		 I knew young Stemmons here had a fondness for Lads, stretching back to his days at the academy.
me		And now you're his only ally.  So you get this file to battle Bradley with. What's Junior get in return?
junior stemmons		JUST YOU! YOU FUCK!
koenig		 I don't want to watch...I'm sorry it came to this, Dave.
junior stemmons		I hope the Bledsoe whore was worth it...'cuz she's still fucked. For a crooked cop, you think small.
koenig		This isn't it!
koenig		Poorly played Dave...poorly played...
koenig		Could I talk you into something? Cut you in on something?
me		Won't work for me Fritz.
koenig		Give me a minute then?
koenig		 Okay...
bradley		Who?
me		Fritz Koenig.
bradley		 Where?
me		Dead. Along with Wilhite, Junior...and Hector Magdalena.
bradley		Why are you here?
me		To collect. I have the things you need to destroy Noonan's play. These same things can be used to destroy you.
bradley		Things like?
me		Stemmons files...and Wilhite's body. He committed suicide after you subpoenaed him.
bradley		This body is in your possession?
me		And it's what you need to burn Narco to the ground...but if those files and his body were to be given to Noonan and the Feds, with me providing the cherry-on-top testimony of a rogue cop. Well. The word `Cataclysmic' comes to mind.
bradley		What will this cost?
me		A percentage of your Dodger Stadium stake in perpetuity. You buy my silence for a fourth of Hurwitz Holdings.
bradley		Doubtful.
me		What'd you expect? A stick-up? Empty your safe? I'm about to disappear for good, and you're gonna fund my new life. You can't counter-punch out of this. Arrest me and I snitch the world.  I'm officially outta time now Chief. Call it.
bradley		Wilhite's body...Bury it.
me		You go to bed drunk, or just been up all night.
klein		Where's Glenda, is she asle-
milteer		The harder you hit him the quicker I say `stop' -- and cease that absurd crying.
glenda bledsoe		 THAT IMPOTENT SHIT-
milteer		-touch me and he dies.
milteer		You still have a job.
pete		...I'm sorry Dave...
me		I put you here...that Powerhawk-
pete		-there's a body in the trunk-
me		-burn it.
pete		I'm so sorry....
glenda		Let me take you to a hospital.
me		We'd never make it inside.
glenda		 I'm worried.
me		I'm through the worst of it.
glenda		I don't believe you.
me		Whatever the cost.
glenda		Just like that then?
me		Just like that.
pete		...be nice to be in with a billionaire who's got a fleet of planes, fly you outta the country on short notice...
****Dialogues from script :White_Ribbon.txt****

living room		There's nobody. They go into the kitchen KITCHEN. Nobody. The look under the kitchen table, in the pantry. Nobody.
dining room		opens again. The Baron comes back inside. He looks distressed. The Baroness doesn't know whether this is the result of her conversation, or of the message brought by the steward. The Baron paces a few steps, pondering, then glances at his wife. Finally, she asks BARONESS: What's going on?
